








<-> \ X". 



V «S 



X 






«* ■*+ 






>- <<• 



iV •/' 









^ •$* .c,-* 









<U 



-' V 
























v x 



\ v 



^ ^ 















o5 "^> 



CO 



>- ^ x 






% $ 






* 






p 



^ o x 



> A, 1 V 



















' 









, c- \> , 












■v 















■%.. 




** v 


^ 






• V 


"^ <**v 


8 « 




o v 












^ 


■% 
















,A; 



^ ,^ 



^ <*< 



-^ *V 









^ 






To this 

Prize Essay 



Practical, Sanitary and Economic Cooking, 

By Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, 

Was awarded first prize among seventy competitors by the 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION, 

It was offered to the government for gratuitous distribution among 
the military and naval organizations and the offer has been accepted. 
Although it was principally written for the use of families, it is believed 
that much of the information contained therein would be practical and 
beneficial to our brave soldiers and. sailors. In order to make it as useful 
as possible, Mrs. Abel, has, with the advice of Mrs. E. H. Richards (Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry of Food, Institute of Technology, Boston) kindly 
written a few prefatory pages relating to the preparation of articles of 
food furnished as rations by the government. Because of the desire to 
carry out the offer cf distribution at as early a date as possible the time 
of the author for doing this work was very limited and it was not pos- 
sible to make this part as thorough and complete as it would have other- 
wise been, but it will undoubtedly prove a very practical addition for the 
purpose intended. : 

If some of the money which is often spent for articles which are not 
nutritious nor healthful, was paid to a company fund to which all con 
tributed, a much greater and more agreeable variety of palatable food 
could be obtained. 

To make the donation as beneficial as possible a 

SAVING AND INTEREST TABLE, 

of which large numbers have been distributed, is enclosed with the Essay. 
The writer has seen during and after the late Civil War the conditions 
and consequences of soldiers spending and of soldiers saving their moder- 
ate earnings and he sincerely desires to assist in inducing as many as pos- 
sible to save something for the future. 

He hopes that the table may be circulated and examined by the mem- 
bers of the organizations. That this may be done and that the essay be 
often consulted and that it may assist in bringing, even if only in a com- 
paratively small degree, comfort and health to the defenders of our now 
happily united country, is the sincere wish of one who is proud to be an 

American Veteran Soldier. 

i 



ARMY COOKERY. 



The ration issued to the U. S. army is more abundant, more varied 
and of better quality than that issued to the army of any other nation. 
It should therefore keep the men in health and strength, and if it fails to 
do so and to be palatable to the healthy appetite, the fault is in its 
preparation. 

A few suggestions as to the cooking of the soldier's ration are here 
offered. 

The garrison ration is so abundant that it cannot be wholly consumed 
and according to the liberal system of exchange of food the surplus can 
be exchanged in such a way as to give still greater variety. In an organ- 
ized camp this allows of excellent and varied cookery. But, the ration 
when on the march is much less varied and contains little or no fresh meat 
or soft bread. It requires therefore more skill on the part of the cook to 
render it palatable and nutritious. 

When the ration consists of salt pork and hard tack and a choice 
between beans, peas, rice and hominy, with tea and coffee and a few con- 
diments, how it is to be best prepared with limited time and with the 
simplest utensils, rests entirely with the cook. 

On the march the breakfast must be substantial as there can be often 
no other regular meal until night. The camp fires or the portable ovens 
must do their work over night in order to effect this. Only in this way 
can baked beans or bean soup be added to the bacon and hard tack, and 
this addition is necessary if the. meal is to afford proper nutrition for the 
day and if there is to be no other resource. Pea and bean meal will here 
find a place and are much preferable to whole beans. 

If there is an issue of fresh beef, the trimmings of what has been 
used the day before may be simmered with such vegetables and flavors as 
are at hand and thickened with hard tack broken in pieces. Such a soup 
or stew will be relished if well flavored. 

Corn meal mush cooked long and slowly becomes a well flavored aud 
nutritious food instead of being raw and irritating as it is if cooked hastily. 
If cooked stiff it may be moulded in cakes while yet warm, floured and 
fried in fat. Hominy and oat meal may be treated in the same way. 

Rice is an excellent breakfast dish and quickly cooked. It is relished 
with the addition of condensed milk or syrup. 

A Bill of Fare For Seven Days on the March, or at the Front 

is here suggested, in which, for reasons stated, only breakfasts and 
suppers are provided for. If dinners are possible, they can be arranged 
according to material and time at command. Coffee can for some days 
Ije changed for tea. 

For bills of fare at camp or garrison or on board ship, some of those 
suggested from pages 151 to 175 of the Essay, will prove useful. 



Sunday. Breakfast. 
Bean Soup, 
Corn Beef, 
Coffee, 
Hard Tack, 

Monday. Breakfast 

Corn Mush and Molasses, 

Coffee, 

Bacon in Batter. 

Tuesday. Breakfast. 

Hoe Cake, 

Stewed Beans with Prunes, 

Coffee. 

Wednesday. Breakfast. 

Pea Soup with Toasted Hard 

Tack, 
Coffee, 
Fried Bacon. 

Thursday. Breakfast. 
Boiled Bacon, 
Rice, 
Coffee. 

Friday. Breakfast. 

Baked Beans and Bacon, 
Coffee. 

Saturday. Breakfast. 
Hoe Cake, 
Pea Soup, 
Coffee, 
Boiled Pork. 



Supper. 
Fried Pork, 
Coffee, 
Plum Duff. 

Supper. 
Coffee, 
Fried Mush, 
Fried Bacon, 
Hard Tack Pudding. 

Supper. 
Rhode Island Pancakes, 
Coffee, 
Fried Bacon. 



Coffee, 

Hoe Cake, 

Cold Canned Beef. 

Supper. 
Pork and Potatoes, 
Coffee, 
Bean Meal Soup with Tomatoes. 

Supper. 
Rhode Island Pancakes, 
Coffee, 
Canned Salmon. 

Supper. 
Coffee, 

Fried Hominy and Molasses, 
Cold Boiled Pork. 



The meal, at the end of a day's march, must be often hastily prepared. 
It will then consist of fried pork, coffee and hard tack, or flour made into 
biscuits or pancakes with water and baking powder. Here whatever con- 
densed foods are furnished will be used to advantage. 



IMPORTANCE OF FLAVORING. 

When the food is to be made up of few materials, the variety that can 
be given by cooking in different ways and by the addition of different fla- 
vors is very important. 

The cook's stores should, if possible, contain vinegar, onions, toma- 
toes, dried fruits and pickles, which can be used to give character to the 
dishes. In the case of sugar, its food value, as well as its flavor, is to be 
considered. According to the result of late investigations carried on by the 



back of range. As soon as the grains are soft, turn out and eat with but- 
ter or fat meat. This is far better than the usual addition of sugar. 

In cooking rice, one object is to keep the grains dis- 
Second Method. tinct and ]ight TMs jg algQ attained by rapid ] y boiling 

the rice in many times its bulk of water for about twenty-five minutes, 
and then draining and drying out a little over the fire. This is a better 
way if a thin utensil like tin must be employed or if the fire is very hot. 
But rice thus cooked has somewhat less flavor and nutrition than when 
cooked with only the amount of water it should absorb. 

CORN MEAL. 

As used in the South, corn meal is most valuable in a meal that must 
be cooked with a simple outfit. Unlike wheaten flour, it requires neither 
yeast nor baking powder to lighten it. 

One quart corn meal, one teaspoon salt. Pour on this 
Hoe Cake. & scant quart of boiling water, mix well, and make out 

with the hands into thin cakes. Heat in a frying pan enough fat to 
nearly cover the cakes and fry brown on both sides. 

Stir, into four quarts of boiling salted water one quart 
Corn Mush. f corn mea ] ) sifting it slowly in that all may be scalded. 

It should cook slowly, well covered, for an hour, or better two hours. 
Rhode island (Manual for Army Cooks, page 1£1.) Mix well 

Pancakes. one quart of Iodian meal, one quart of rye flour, two 

large tablespoonfuls of melted shortening or butter; five tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, one tablespoonful of salt, one small teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one quart of water to make a stiff batter. Fry ten minutes as you would 
doughnuts. 

COFFEE. 

Coffee that must be kept for some time after roasting is much improved 
by being reheated in a pan before it is used. 



The following are extracts of opinions on Mrs. Abel's Essay on "Prac- 
tical Sanitary and Economic Cooking Adapted to Persons of Moderate and 
Small Means," from members of the American Public Health Association: 

Dr. Samuel W. Abbott, Wakefield, Mass. — Mrs. Abel's prize essay is 
the best work of its kind that has yet appeared in this country. It deals 
with the food question in a practical, intelligible way, and will prove a use- 
ful and welcome addition to every household library. It is in fact, a work- 
ing Manual, and a copy of it ought to form a part of every kitchen outfit 
in the land. 

Dr. A. W. Alyord, Battle Creek, Mich.— This is a remarkable book, 
Very seldom does an author have a whole field to herself and fill it so wisely. 

Prof. Edmund K. Angell, Derry, N. H.— From hasty examination of 
the work, it appears to be excellent. 

O. N. Archibald, Jamestown, K Dakota.— The above little work is a 
very valuable essay on the subjects treated, and will do a vast sight of good 
to the class it is intended to benefit. Iwould wish to see it in the hands of 
every citizen, and especially those of small means and without knowledge 
on this important part of our lives. 



Harry T. Bahmboh, M. D.. Pres't N. C Board of Health. Salem. N. C. 
—Am thorough;- — ith the little book. Shall try to introduce it 

-v throughout the State. 
Dr." Wil Bailey. Louisville. Ky. — The work is admin 
Dr. Hevry B. Baker. E American Public Health Association. 

— I consider it a verv useful hook to all classes of people 

B. F. Beaedsley. M. D.. Hartford, Conn.— S I am much 

1 with it. 
Dr. Jos. A. Beaudry. Montreal. — I deem the work a m >• 
addition to Doel .by. 

Fredk Becker, Clerm — The above-named little wo: 

marvel of usefulne^5 and should be found in every household. 

Dr. E. W. BlatchforL'. Chicago, 111.— The subject and mode o: 
ment admirable; calculated plish much good. Especially : 

at preset time. 
Dr. J:>o. Willis Brow; 9 . . U. S. ST., Washing 

sufficient, full, practical, interes ._■ tmentof the 
ject. and worthy of the commendation of the committee. 

J. G. Cabell. M. P.. Richmond. V i — 1: will prove very useful for 
many pu rpof i illy in Public Insdtv. i e large nun 

: ovided for and economy c - up in attractive 

C. W. Chancellor, M. D*. Baltimore, Md.— As a manual of D<: 
Bcon my liraWe, It treats of a subject which is wis 
process : introduction into the routine of gene: r pir- 

a-hing the young idea h-: - aentifi ; g li . 

than a cookery book or a rules and receipts. 

Walter H. Chapix - . M. D.. Springfield, Mass.— A valuable work. 

Dr. E. F. X. Cleveland, Dundeerill.— I will en 
plovers to purchase copies for their married em pic ta thtir 

Dr. Chas. E. Cole. Wauzeka, Wis— It is just what its title imr. 
N. B. Cole. Bloominvfam, ID. — Tli prize highly. I 

D: - - 

Dr. Chas. Wm. Coyee: admirable com- 

pendium on a very important subject for contributing to the well-being of 
the masses, and well adaptc LI ring the object in view. 

Prof. F. C. Curtis, Albany, N. I .—A _ id subject well treated, in 
concise form. 

Dr. J. P. Dake. Nashville, Tenn.— Tour committee of award did wisely 
in this case. The book comes up to the re 

H. C. Dabby. "Wilmot. Wis.— The si l read. 

H. H. Daub, M. D.. Caldwell, Tex.— I think it is a splendid work and 
no doubt do a great deal of good. 

Dr. S. H. Du — -en on the 

subject, and will do inestimable gcxxi if read by ihe people. 

Dr. Cyrus Shook, New York.— The w of its 

kind I have seen. T.s miss - - - in reality a very 

high one. and it fills it perfectly - it upon a'., 

with its production. 

Dr. W. H. El: S I la.— I am glad to be able to say that I 

think this work admirable. 

Delos Fall Albion. Mich.— This work must be the means of doing mu'-h 
good in teaching people how to live better and more cheaply. The wcrk 
will be of greatValue to me personally in the lectures on sanitary science. 



Dr. Chas. H. Fisher, Providence. R. I.— I am most favorably im- 
pressed with the high value of this little book as a practical manual of 
sanitary, economic and also scientific cooking. The correctness of scientific 
statement and the directness and clearness of scientific application in the 
grouping of the fundamental "food principles" in the various formulae for 
cooking, are most admirable. 

Dr. Charles James Fox, Surgeon General of the State, Willimautic, 
Conn. — A very valuable and interesting work. 

Dr. E. B. Frazer, Sec'y State Board of Health, Delaware. — The work 
is biief and to the point. Its value as an educator can hardly be computed 
in dollais and cents. It is a gem. 

Dr. Spencer M. Free, Bcachtree, Jefferson Co. Pa. — I am glad to say 
that the above is one of the finest works on the subject that I have had the 
•opportunity to examine. It should have a wide circulation. 

W. S. French, C. E., Agent and Clerk Board of Health, West Newton, 
Mass. — From the little study which I have been able to give to it it seems to 
justify the opinion of the Committee of Award. Its arrangement is ad- 
mirable and so clear that "he may read who runs'' and understand it. 

Dr. Wolcott Gibbs, Newport, R. I.— An admirable book which ought 
to be in every family. 

Dr. Albert L. Gihon, TJ. S. Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y. — Attrac- 
tive in appearance — neat and elegant in style— an admirable addition to 
.any library. 

Crosby" Gray, Esq., Municipal Hall, Pittsburgh, Pa. — An excellent 
work, which should be in the possession of every housekeeper. 

Wm. E. Griffiths, M. D. Brooklyn, N. Y. — Worthy of the prize. 

Dr. Junius M. Hall, Chicago, 111. — The work contains a great quantity 
of valuable information and I am greatly pleased with it. 

Dr. John B. Hamilton, U. S. Mar. Hospital Serv., Washington, D. C. — 
The essay is a good one and in my opinion should have a wide distribution. 

Dr. A. Hazlewood, Grand Rapids, Mich. — Like the essay very much; 
pleasing in the manner, and full of good ideas. 

William Heaps, Manufacturer, Muskegon, Mich. — A masterpiece. 
Will prove of incalcuable benefit to those "who read, mark, and learn." 

Dr. H. J. Herrick, Cleveland, O. — I am very much pleased with the 
clear and definite manner of presentation, as also the practical matter con- 
tained in the Prize Essay. It treats of a most important subject in Hygiene. 

Hon. Henry D. Holton, Brattleboro, Vt. — A most valuable book. 

Dr. Geo. Homan, St. Louis, Mo. — I think the essay is admirable both 
in scope and method. 

Dr. Carl H. Horsch, Dover, N. H. — I sincerely hope that the valuable 
and inexpensive essay will be in every house in the land. 

Alexander Hadden, M. D., New York City. — I have examined the 
book on Sanitary, Economic Cookery hastily, but sufficiently thorough to 
understand fully that it will be a useful manual in every intelligent house- 
hold, and an invaluable aid to physicians who look after the regimen of 
their patients. 

C. C. Hunt, Dixon, 111. — An exct»*ent exposition and treatment of the 
subjects considered. 

Ezra M. Hunt, M. D., Trenton, N. J. — I find the book of Mrs. Abel is 
a most valuable one, and adds new credit to the Lomb Prize Essays. It 
will be of great and wide-spread service. 

Dr. D. C. Jones, Member State Board of Health, Topeka, Kansas. — I 
am very much pleased with the clear and concise manner in which the 
author presents her views. 



Hon. J. M. Keating, Editor Memphis Commercial, Memphis, Tenm. 
— A scientific and practical work that would be of especial value ino 
classes, and that should be pushed as rapidly as is possible into general 
circulation. 

Prof. R. C. Kedzie, M. D., Prof, iu Agricultural College, Lansing, 
Mich. — I am much pleased with the book. It resembles a well-ordered, 
meal in that there is enough and not too much. The good cook is the- 
handmaid of good morals; there is no real civilization without her aid. 

Josiah F. Kennedy, A. M., M. D., Sec'y Iowa State Board of Health, 
Des Moines, Iowa. — I am much pleased with the work. It is eminently 
practical; scientific without being technical. The arrangement is excel- 
lent. The style is clear and terse. It is indeed a multum inparvo and as- 
a cook book I know none better — though many larger. 

Dr. P. H. Kretzschmar, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

So far as I have read the little work, I consider it very valuable, full 
of instructive matter. 

Benjamin Lee, M. D., Sec'y State Board of Health of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pa. — The wanton waste which characterizes the provision- 
ing and cooking of the family of the American mechanic is only too well- 
known to students of social science. If this work could be brought into' 
such families, its simplicity and clearness could not fail to convince- 
the mothers and housekeepers of the advantage, both to the purses of 
their husbands and the health of their families, of a more careful study 
of the science of cooking and of the true values of foods. Money which 
is now recklessly squandered would be laid away against a rainy day, 
and many a dyspeptic pang would be prevented. It is much to be* 
desired that means should be taken to give this truly valuable book a 
wide circulation. 

Dr. E. R. Lewis, Kansas City, Mo.— I believe this little book will 
prove of much practical value to those who are fortunate enough to possess- 
it, and I believe its domain could well be extended to those of more than, 
moderate means. I would especially commend it to many of our American, 
hotels and restaurants. 

ChaunceyE. Low, M. D., Brooklyn, N.Y. — The work strikes me as prac- 
tical, containing much information that should be known to all of those 
who desire to study the sanitary and economic methods of preparing food. 

R. K MacDonnell, M. D., Montreal, P. Q.— A work that is certain 
to do a great deal of good. 

Jno. Edw. Mason, M. D., Washington, D. C— Have read the work,, 
find it first rate, especially the article on cooking meats. 

C. D. McDonald, Kansas City, Mo.— From the short time I have had to 
read and digest the subject matter I think it excellent. 

W. P. McLarey, Milwaukee, Wis.— An exceedingly valuable book. 

Dr. J. A. Mead, Pearlington, Miss.— Am well pleased with the book. 

Dr. Alfred Mercer, Syracuse, N. Y.— I have examined the above- 
work and am pleased with its scope and suggestions. 

C. Monjeau, Secretary and Manager of National Water Supply Co., 
Cincinnati, O. — The essay impresses me more favorably than anything of 
the kind I ever met with in any school. 

F. Montizambert, M. D., Quarantine Officer, Quebec, P. Q.— Inter- 
esting and valuable essay. 

Rob't Moore, C. E., St. Louis, Mo. — Seems to be very valuable. 

Emma W. Mooers, Arlington, Mass.— The book is invaluable,— it will 
bring harmony out of discord. Betterwork, clearer heads, and happier 
lives" will belong to the working people. 



D. P. Morgan, Chicago, 111. — From the cursory glance that I have made 
of the book I should consider it one of extreme usefulness, and the author 
deserves great credit for her labor. 

W. F. Morse, New York City. — Admirably sensible and compact in 
arrangement and statement. Thoroughly practical and well adapted for 
purposes required. 

E. M. Mosher, M. D., Brooklyn, N. Y. — It is clearly written, scientific, 
simple, well adapted to the needs of the people, both rich and poor. 

Dr. A. Nash, Joliet, 111. — I am very much pleased with the essay of 
Mrs. M. H. Abel. 

Dr. Wm. K. Newton, Paterson, N. J. — A most excellent work. 

Frank P. Norbury, M. D., Jacksonville, 111. — An intensely interesting 
essay, full of practical facts worthy the consideration of all who "eat to 
live." The application of physiological principles is aptly set forth and 
well adapted for the use to which these health essays are intended. 

Dr. Wm. Oldright, Toronto, Ont. — Think it conveys a large amount 
of useful, practical information, very much needed by our housekeepers, 
in a concise and pleasant manner. 

II. S. Orne, M. D., Los Angeles, Cal. — I have examined the copy of 
"Sanitary and Economic Cooking," and find it an excellent book on the 
subject, and just what is needed for the people. 

Henry E. Pellew, Esq., Washington, D. C. — A very practical code of 
instructions in the preparation of food in the households of the majority 
in this country. 

Dr. C. O. Probst, Columbus, O.— I have read the above work With 
much interest, and am much pleased with it, I consider it one of the best of 
the series and wish we were able to place one in each household in our State. 

J. W. Redden, M. D., Topeka, Kan., Sec'y Kansas State Board of 
Health. — This is a most admirable work; well adapted to the purposes 
designed. It is full of valuable information and should be in every 
family. May its demand be equal to its merits. 

Dr. James E. Reeves, Chattanooga, Tenn. — 1 am delighted with the 
work. Its value will be the happiness and saving of thousands of persons 
who will never see the book. 

R. H. Reid, Mansfield, Ohio.— Good. 

Dr. B. O. Reynolds, Lake Geneva, Wis.— A valuable little Essay, 
especially calculated to benefit the poor and middle classes (financially 
speaking) of American society. 

Mrs. Ellen H. Richards," S. B., A. M., Instructor in Sanitary Chemis- 
try, Mass. Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass. — It is not often that we 
find so much real knowledge, or the result of so much study condensed 
into one little volume of 175 pages. It is a truly fortunate circumstance 
that an American mother and housekeeper should have the great oppor- 
tunity, and with the opportunity the desire and ability to weave the scien- 
tific knowledge of the laboratory into the daily food of the family. The 
great value of the little book lies in the clear statement of certain principles 
which lie at the foundation of all food preparation; so that if the particular 
recipe is not available for the housewife she may by a little study learn how 
to adapt what she has to the best advantage. 

F. C. Robinson, Brunswick, Me. — I am exceedingly pleased with the 
work. It cannot be too widely circulated. 

F. J. Rogers, M. D. Stamford, Ct.— Sensible and practical. An excel- 
lent work. 
Dr. H. W. Rose, Westerly, R. I.— An excellent work. 
J. B. Rozier, Esq., Memphis, Tenn. — Highly appreciated. 



A. R Rui, Springfield, Mass. — Of inestimable value, especially to young 
housekeepers. 

D. A. Sargent, M. D., Cambridge, Mass. — An excellent treatise on the 
subject. 

Chas. H. Shepard, M. D., 81 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. — 
Exceedingly interested in this book. Will prove valuable in many ways. 

Dr. J. H. Sears, Waco, Tex. —Have not had time to examine critically, 
but so far as examined, very much pleased and think it entitled to the prize. 

Joel W. Smith, M. D., Charles Citv, Iowa. — Without exception, the 
most valuable work of the kind in the English language— and I suspect in 
any language — not alone for the poor but for all classes. 

Dr. Joseph Spiegelhalter, St. Louis, Mo. — This is an excellent book. 

State Board op Health, Des Moines, Iowa. — Excellent. 

Dr. George M. Sternberg, U. S. A., Ex President Am. Pub. Health 
Ass'n., John Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. — This essay, in which 
the results of scientific research and of practical experience are combined 
in an admirable way, should be in the hands of every housekeeper. 

Eug. F. Storke* M.D., Milwaukee, Wis. — I am much pleased with the 
book. 

Chas. Sutherland, U. S. A., Governor's Island. — As far as I havehad 
time to examine this book I believe it to be an excellent one for the object 
intended. 

Dr. G. B. Thornton, Memphis, Tenn. — From a hasty sketch lam sure 
it is worthy of the credit awarded it by the Committee, and it will prove 
very useful in practice. 

J. P. Thomas, M. D., Elmo, via Pembrook. — I am very much pleased 
with the entire book. It is certainly a multum in parvo on the subject of 
both scientific and practical cooking. 

Dr. Gerard G. Tyrrell, Sec'y California State Board of Health, Sacra- 
mento, Cal. — I have looked over the book and think it a most valuable 
addition to the sanitary works of the American Public Health Association. 
I think it ought to have a large circulation among those to whose means 
it is adapted as embodying the greatest economy In the most efficient re- 
sults in the preparation *of palatable food. 

Dr. J.H. Van Deman, Chattanooga, Tenn.— Decidedly practical and 
useful. 

F. P. Vanderbergh, Buffalo, N. Y. — A most excellent book for any 
citizen, whether professional or artisan. 

Dr. H. P. Walcott, Ex- President of the American Public Health Ass'n., 
Cambridge, Mass. — The work appears to me now, as it did upon my earlier 
reading of it, eminently wise and practical. I think a more general use of 
this little book would be of essential benefit to the public health. 

Jerome Walker, M. D., Brooklyn, N. Y.-~ One of the most practical 
books I have ever seen and the only one of the kind as far as I know. 

D. R. Wallace, M. D., Sup't North Texas Luuatic Asylum, Terrell, Tex. 
— Little book, is a most important treatise on a most important subject, 
truly a multum in parvo. 

Cheney D. Washburn, Springfield. Mass. — Excellent work. 

Dr. J. Madison Watson, Elizabeth, N. J. — An essay which supplies a 
real need. 

J. O. Webster, M. D. , Augusta, Me.— It is of great value, and it is 
very desirable that it should be widely circulated. 

H. M. Wells, Medical Inspector, U. S. N. Washington, D. C— Multum 
in parvo. 

Elisha Winter, Brooklyn, N. Y.— Admirably adapted. 

S. P. Wise, Millersburg, O. — It is a masterpiece on the subject of which 
it treats. 



PRACTICAL 



ADAPTED TO 



PERSONS OF MODERATE AND SMALL MEANS 



Mrs. Mary Hinmait Abel. 



THE LOMB PRIZE ESSAY. 



Inscription; "The Five Food Principles, Illustrated 
by Practical Recipes" 



PUBLISHED BY THE 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION, 



! "• 



YjLsjU A^^ 



■ A H3 



Copyright, 1889, 

By IRVING A. WATSON, 

Secretary American Public Health Association. 



PRINTED BY E. R. ANDREWS 
ROCHESTER, N. Y. 



PEEFAOE 



Perhaps there is no better way of presenting to the 
public the facts which led to the creation of this 
valuable work, than by inserting the announcement 
which resulted in the exceedingly lively and able 
competition for the prize, as well as the merited honor 
which was certain to fall upon the successful com- 
petitor. It read as follows : 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 



The Lomb Pkize Essays. 

Two Prizes for 1888. 

Mr. Henry Lomb, of Rochester, N.Y., now well known 
to the American public as the originator of the " Lomb 
Prize Essays,' 1 offers, through the American Public 
Health Association, two prizes for the current year, on 
the following subject: 

Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 

Adapted to Persons of Moderate 

and Small Means. 



First Prize, $500, - - - Second Prize, 

Judges: Prof. Charles A. Lindsley, New Haven, 
Conn.; Prof. George H. Rohe, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
Victor C. Vaughan, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, Boston, Mass.; Miss Emma C. G. Poison, 
New Haven, Conn. 

Conditions : The arrangement of the essay will be left 
to the discretion of the author. They are, however, 

(3) 



iv Preface. 

expected to cover, in the broadest and most specific 
manner, methods of cooking as well as carefully pre- 
pared receipts, for three classes, — ( 1 ) those of moderate 
means; ( 2 ) those of small means; ( 3 ) those who may be 
called poor. For each of these classes, receipts for three 
meals a day for several days in succession should be 
given, each meal to meet the requirements of the body, 
and to vary as much as possible from day to day. For- 
mulas for at least twelve dinners, to be carried to the 
place of work, and mostly eaten cold, to be given. 
Healthfulness, practical arrangement, low cost, and 
palatableness should be combined considerations. The 
object of this work is for the information of the house- 
wife, to whose requirements the average cook-book is ill 
adapted, as well as to bring to her attention healthful 
and ecconomic methods and receipts. 

All essays written for the above prizes must be in the 
hands of the Secretary, Dr. Irving A. "Watson, Concord, 
N. H., on or before September 15, 1888. Each essay 
mast bear a motto, and have accompanying it a securely 
sealed envelope containing the author's name and ad- 
dress, with the same motto upon the outside of the 
envelope. 

After the prize essays have been determined upon, the 
envelopes bearing the mottoes corresponding to the 
prize essays will be opened, and the awards made to the 
persons whose names are found within them. The re- 
maining envelopes, unless the corresponding essays are 
reclaimed by authors or their representatives within 
thirty days after publication of the awards, will be 
destroyed, unopened, by the Secretary. 

None of the judges will be allowed to compete for a 
prize. 

The judges will announce the awards at the Annual 
Meeting of the American Public Health Association, 
1888. 

It is intended that the above essays shall be essen- 
tially American in their character and application, and 



Preface. v 

this will be considered by the judges as an especial 
merit. 

Competition is open to authors of any nationality, 
but all the papers must be in the English language. 

Irving A. Watson, 

Secretary. 
Concord, N. H., February, 1888. 

The above circular was extensively circulated and 
published throughout the United States and the 
Dominion of Canada, with the result of bringing to 
the Secretary, within the specified time, seventy essays 
upon the subject announced. The arrival of these 
essays covered a period of nearly five months, and 
they were forwarded to the Chairman of the Commit- 
tee of Award nearly as fast as received, thus giving 
the committee ample time for their exceedingly 
laborious work of examination. The decision of the 
judges was announced at the Sixteenth Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Public Health Association, and 
was as follows: 

Report of Committee on the Lomb Prizes. 

Your committee, to whom were referred the essays 
upon "Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 
Adapted for Persons of Moderate and Small Means," 
respectfully report that they have perused with thought- 
ful and considerate attention the three score and ten 
essays which were submitted to them. 

A few of theui were presented in beautiful specimens 
of type-writing, but the great majority of them were in 
manuscript, and some of them not in the most legible 
characters, a circumstance which, it will be appreciated, 
became an important matter, when considered in con- 
nection with the large number of competitors, and the 
fact that many of their papers were each of several 
hundred pages in length. 



vi Preface. 

The result of the labors of the committee is, that by 
unanimous approval, the first prize of $500 is awarded to 
the author of the essay bearing this inscription, — " The 
Five Food Principles, illustrated by Practical Recipes." 

Your committee would further report that although 
.there were among the remaining sixty-nine a number of 
essays of considerable merit, there was no single one so 
prominently superior to others as to commend the ap- 
proval of the majority of your committee, nor was there 
any which did notcontain someerrors of statement, which 
your committee did not feel justified in endorsing with 
the approval of this Association by the bestowal of a 
prize, or else which did not fail to meet some of the con- 
ditions upon which the prize was offered, or which was 
not otherwise objectionable because of literary defects. 

Your committee would therefore respectfully report 
that no essay was found among those submitted to them 
which they judged deserving of the second prize of $200. 

The committee consider it a duty, in awarding the 
prize, to emphasize the fact that of all the essays sub- 
mitted the one selected is not only preeminently the 
best, but that it is also intrinsically an admirable treatise 
on the subject. 

It is simple and lucid in statement, methodical in ar- 
rangement, and well adapted to the practical wants of 
the classes to which it is addressed. Whoever may read 
it can have confidence in the soundness of its teachings, 
and cannot fail to be instructed in the art of cooking by 
its plain precepts, founded as they are upon the correct 
application of the scientific principles of chemistry and 
physiology to the proper preparation of food for man. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

C. A. Lindsley. 
George H. Rohe. 
V. C. Vaughan. 
Ellen H. Richards. 
Emma C. G. Polson\ 



Preface. vii 

The American public is to be congratulated upon 
this useful and valuable contribution to the needs of 
its great army of working people, made possible 
through the humanitarian benevolence of a private 
citizen. This was the fifth prize offered by the same 
citizen, through the same channel, for the noble pur- 
pose of ameliorating, in some degree, the hardships 
which befall mankind in the tireless struggle for 
existence. 

That this essay may be placed in the hands of every 
family in the country, is his earnest desire as well as 
that of the Association; therefore a price barely cover- 
ing the cost has been placed upon this volume. It is 
to be hoped, that Government departments, state and 
local boards of health, sanitary and benevolent asso- 
ciations, manufacturers, employers, etc., will purchase 
editions at cost, or otherwise aid in distributing this 
work among the peoj:>le. 

Although a copyright has been placed upon these 
essays for legitimate protection, permission to publish 
under certain conditions, can be obtained by address- 
ing the secretary. 

We commend this volume to the public, believing 
it to be an unequaled work upon " Practical Sanitary 
and Economic Cooking, adapted to persons of mode- 
rate and small means." 

Secretary American Public Health Association. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

General Introduction, 1 

The Kitchen, 18 

I. Proteid - containing Foods (Animal Sort), and 

their Preparation, 22 

Methods of Cooking Meat, 32 

Soup Making, 33, 39 

Boiling Meat, 34, 40 

Frying in Fat, 35, 40 

Baking Meat, 35, 41 

Broiling Meat, 36, 42 

Use of Thermometer, 43 

Heat Saver, 44 

To Make Meat Tender, 45 

Recipes for Cooking Meat, 46 

Beef, - 46 

Veal, 50 

Mutton and Lamb, 51 

Pork, 52 

Fish and Fish Soups, _.. 55 

Fowl and Fowl Soups, - 57 

Eggs and Egg Dishes, 58 

Cheese and Cheese Dishes, 61 

Care and Use of Milk, 63 

Sour Milk, - 64 

II. Fats and Oils, 66 

Usesof Fats, 71 

Meat and Vegetable Sauces, 72 

III. The Carbohydrate-containing Foods and their 

Preparation, 75 

Grains, - ?9 

Sugars, .. 80 

ix 



Table of Contents. 

Legumes, 81 

Potatoes and other Vegetables, 82 

Fruits, 83 

The Cooking of Grains, _ _ 85 

Grains Cooked Whole, 85 

Cookingof Grits, 86 

Corn Flour, 87 

Graham Flour, 88 

Fine Wheat Flour, 89 

Macaroni and Noodles, 89 

Flour Raised with Fat, 91 

Flour Raised with Egg, 92 

Egg Pancakes, &c 92 

Flour Raised with Carbonic Acid Gas, 93 

(a) Yeast Raised, 

WhiteBread, 94 

Rye and Corn Bread, 97 

Biscuits, Rolls, &c 97 

Yeast Pancakes, 99 

Buckwheat Flour, 100 

(b) Raised with Soda, 

Methods, 101 

Soda Biscuits, ._ 102 

Uses of Biscuit Dough, &c 102 

Soda Corn Breads, _ 103 

Soda Pancakes, without Eggs, 103 

Soda Pancakes, with Eggs, 104 

Uses for Bread, . _. 105 

Simple Sweet Dishes, 107 

Milk Puddings, 107 

Fruit Puddings, with Biscuit Dough, 108 

Fruit Puddings with Bread, 109 

Custard Puddings, 110 

Bread and Custard Puddings, _ 110 

Suet Puddings, 112 

Pudding Sauce, T 112 

Fritters, _ 113 

Cooking of Vegetables, 115 



Table of Contents. 

Soups without Meat, 117 

Vegetable Soups, ___ 117 

Flour and Bread Soups, 121 

Milk Soups or Porridges, 122 

Fruit Soups, 124 

Additions to Soups, 126 

Dumplings for Soups and Stews, 127 

Flavors and Seasonings, 130 

Drinks, ... 133 

Cookery for the Sick, 137 

Twelve Bills of Fare — Explanation, 142 

Class I. (with letter of advice to mother of the family), 143 

Class II 163 

Class III 164 

Twelve Cold Dinners, 176 



INTRODUCTION. 



Few things are of more importance than that we 
should find ourselves physically and mentally equal to 
our day's work, but not many of us realize how largely 
this depends upon the food we eat. 

Supposing there to be just money enough in a given 
family to buy the right kind and quantity of food. 
Now if this money is not wisely expended, or if after 
the food has been bought it is spoiled in the cooking, 
the results will be very serious for the members of 
that family; they will be under-nourished and they 
will suffer in clear-headedness, bodily strength, and 
in the case of children, in bodily development. 

Surely the right condition of the body is too im- 
portant to be left to chance ; the best scientific knowl- 
edge, the best practical heads should be at its service, 
and this is the case, indeed, to a large extent in Eu- 
rope, where the food of the soldiers and of the inmates 
of public institutions is furnished more or less ac- 
cording to certain rules that have been deduced 
partly from observation, and partly from scientific 
experiment. 

The application of scientific principles on these lines 
is not of long standing, for the investigations that have 
clinched them are all of comparatively recent date. At 



2 History of Food Study. 

the end of the last century a beginning was made in 
France and in Germany in connection with philan- 
thropic efforts to improve the food of the poor, and it 
was at this time that Count Eumford introduced into 
the soup kitchens of Munich, the soup that has been 
named after him. From this time on interest in the 
subject of foods, both for men and domestic animals, 
steadily increased, although experimenters were con- 
stantly coming to wrong conclusions because the 
sciences of Organic Chemistry and Physiology, as far 
as they concerned the subject, were not far enough 
advanced. 

It was only in the early forties that the first ex- 
perimental agricultural stations were established, but 
so rapidly have they multiplied that they now number 
more than a hundred in Europe alone; and in these 
and in the laboratories of the great universities, 
analyses have been made of most of the foods used by 
men and animals, and also tests of the relative flesh 
and fat producing power of different foods and com- 
binations of foods. 

For years the results of these investigations have 
been applied with profit to the feeding of cattle, 
but it was a case of threatened wholesale starvation 
in England that first turned the attention of properly 
trained persons to a like study of the nourishment of 
human beings. During our civil war the condition of 
the cotton spinners in Lancashire and Cheshire, Eng- 
land, became so serious as to make government help 
necessary to keep them from starving, and in 1862 and 
1863 Dr. Edward Smith was commissioned to examine 
into the the dietetic needs of the distressed operatives. 



English Investigations. 3 

In his report for 1863 are found tables of the food con- 
sumed per week by 634 families, and in spite of the dif- 
ficulties standing in the way of such an investigation, 
the foods consumed were classified into tables showing 
the amounts of the different food principles taken 
per week by each family. 

One of the great practical results following from 
this investigation was the determination of the mini- 
mum amount of each nutritive principle which men, 
women and children need, to keep them in fair health. 
The amount of food with which an unemployed man 
can fight off starvation, and the diseases temporarily 
incident to it, was found to be represented in 35 ounces 
of good bread per day, and the necessary amount of 
wholesome water. 

Since the publication of Dr. Smith's report similar 
inquiries have been instituted by the scientists of other 
countries, and many analyses have been made of 
the exact amount and kinds of food eaten by various 
classes of laborers under the most varied conditions. 
Professors Voit and Pettenkofer of Munich have even 
accounted for every particle of food that passed 
through the body of a man, both while he was at work 
and while he was idle. They have also noted how 
much of his own body was consumed when he ate 
nothing. Finally, a great number of averages have 
been taken and so-called " standard dietaries" con- 
structed, by which is meant the average amount of 
each of the chief food principles that keep an average 
muscle-worker in good condition, when doing aver- 
age work. 

Every one will admit that it is of great importance 



4 Applications to tile Household. 

for the farmer to know in what proportion he shall 
lay in hay and other food for the winter feeding of 
his stock; the animals must thrive, but there must 
be no waste by furnishing food in the wrong quanti- 
ties or proportions. 

For the housewife, the food question in its relation 
to her family can be stated in the very same words. 
It is important that she should economize, but her 
path will be full of pitfalls if she does not understand 
in what true economy consists. Most people with a 
real interest in this subject, have had at some period 
of their lives certain pet theories as to food. Per- 
haps they have been at one time convinced that most 
people ate too much, at another, that meat was the 
all strengthener, or they may have been afflicted 
with the vegetarian fad, and whatever their special 
views have been they have thought that they rested 
them upon facts. But surely they would never have 
pinned their faith to one-sided diets if they had 
rightly comprehended the main facts of nutrition. 
We believe that if these facts as at present interpreted, 
and the world's experience in applying them, can be 
put at the command of the housewife, she can use 
them to great profit. 

We have employed the term "food principles"; 
what do we mean by it ? Everyone knows what is 
meant by a food, as meat or bread, and everyone 
knows that the food offered us by our butchers and 
grocers comes from the animal and vegetable king- 
doms. The oxygen we breathe and the water we 
drink nature furnishes for us directly, so to speak, 
though unfortunately for many of us, and especially 



Food Principles. 5 

for young children, the former is not thought of as a 
food. Oxygen aside, it has been found by those who 
have studied the matter, that all foods contain one or 
more of five classes of constituents, called "nutritive 
ingredients" or "food principles." These five prin- 
ciples are: 

(1) Water. 

(2) Proteids. 

(3) Fats. 

(4) Carbohydrates. 

( 5 ) Salts or mineral constituents. 

WATER. 

It is important to note that our bodies when full- 
grown are two-thirds water, and that our food con- 
tains from 1 to 94$ of it. Considering the scope of 
this essay, it must be left to take care of itself as a 
food. 

PROTEIDS. 

A class of nearly allied bodies is included under 
this head. The whole class is sometimes called 
"Albumens." 

The housewife is familiar with proteids in such 
foods as the lean of meat, in eggs and cheese. These 
contain the principle in various proportions ; for 
example, 

Lean of meat has - 15-21 $ 

Eggs in both white and yolk - - 12.5$ 
Fresh cows' milk on an average - - 3.4$ 

Cheese 25-30 $ 

Dried Codfish 30 ^ 



6 Food Principles. 

i 

Vegetables are more deficient in proteids though 
the grains and legumes contain much of it. 

Wheat flour has 10 to 12 <f> 

Peas, beans and Lentils have 22.85 to 27.7$ 

In fresh vegetables we find only from £ to 3$, 
excepting green peas and beans in which the proteids 
reach 5 to 6.5$. 

FATS. 

Fats are obtained from both the animal and veg- 
etable kingdoms. Those used by us in cookery come 
mostly from animals, and are known to the house- 
wife as butter, lard and tallow. Vegetable food as a 
rule, is very poor in fats, containing from to 3$ 
only. 

Some of the cereals, like corn and oats contain 
from 4 to 7$ of fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 

The bodies classed as "carbohydrates" are found 
mainly in vegetables. The housekeeper knows them 
as starches and sugars. 

Under the starches proper are included such 
things as the starches of grains and seeds, Iceland 
moss, gums and dextrin. 

Milk is one of the few animal products that has 
more than a very small quantity of carbohydrates. 
It -contains on the average about 4.8$ of this prin- 
ciple ; — slightly more than of either proteids or fats. 

SALTS. 

The things that give hardness to our bones, like 



Functions of Food Principles. 7 

calcium phosphate, and the common salt with which 
we flavor our food, illustrate this class. 

FUNCTIONS OF FOOD PRINCIPLES. 

To know in what proportion these food principles 
should be represented in our diet, we must inquire 
into the part played by each of them in the body. The 
first and the last principle may be dismissed briefly. 
The former, water, is the great medium which floats 
things through the body ; the latter, salts, are com- 
bined in various ways with the solids and fluids of 
our foods, and we shall not easily suffer from lack of 
them. 

The other three food principles (let us call them in 
the following pages the three great food principles), 
cannot be so summarily dealt with. We might say, 
briefly and dogmatically, that the proteids are "flesh 
foods," the fats are "heat foods," the carbohydrates 
" work foods." To be sure, experimenters are agreed 
on the main points, but the different schools are still 
at war on the final explanations and on many details, 
and it has become more and more evident that we 
cannot portion off the work of the body in this sim- 
ple style. Though each of the three great food prin- 
ciples can be said to have a favorite part which it 
plays better than any other, yet we find that like an 
actor of varied talents, it has more than one role in 
its repertoire. 

FUNCTION OF PROTEIDS. 

That this class is indispensable we have the best 
of proofs. It must be given us in one or another of its 



8 Function of Proteids. 

forms, for, even if we are not athletes, nearly one half 
of our body is made up of muscle which is one fifth 
proteid, and the nitrogen in this proteid can only be 
furnished by proteid again, since neither fats nor car- 
bohydrates contain any of it ; therefore in making up 
bills of fare, let us remember that growing and working 
proteid, yes, even idle proteid as Dr. Smith found, 
needs proteid, and that there is nothing in any of 
the other food principles that can entirely take its 
place. 

Though we think of proteid mostly as a great body 
builder and restorer, it can also to some extent fur- 
nish fat when it stands in a certain relation to the 
fats and carbohydrates of our food, and we are assured 
by experimenters that it also furnishes heat and mus- 
cle energy under certain conditions. 

In these last two activities, however, it is far ex- 
celled by fats and carbohydrates. We shall therefore 
think of it as the nitrogen-furnisher of our tissues, 
and also as the grand stimulant among foods, incit- 
ing the body, as it does, to burn up more of other 
kinds. 

Scientists, at one time, held the opinion that our 
muscle energy comes chiefly from proteids. This view 
has been abandoned, but many a working man still 
believes that meat is the only kind of food that is of 
any account; he thinks of fats and starches as quite 
unimportant comparatively. Now it has been proved 
over and over again, that we can combine meat with 
fats and vegetable food in such a proportion that it 
shall play only its main role, viz., that of building 
and restoring, while these latter furnish the heat and 



Function of Fats and Carbohydrates. 9 

muscle energy needed. Proteid food is such a costly 
article that it will not do to put it at work which 
cheaper material can do even better. 

FUNCTION OF FATS. 

The fats also have more than one office in the body. 
They can be stored as body fat, or they can be burned 
and give off heat, and they may also serve as a source 
of muscular energy, in an indirect manner at least. 

FUNCTION" OF CARBOHYDRATES. 

The Carbohydrate principle furnishes fat to our 
tissues, and is a source of heat and muscle energy, 
indeed the chief source of muscle energy in all ordi- 
nary diets. 

FLAVORINGS. 

So far we have had chiefly in mind the real work- 
ing constituents of food, if we may so speak. But 
many things cannot be studied or classified in the 
above way; they must be looked at from another 
point of view. 

Thus, a pinch of pepper, a cup of coffee, a fine, 
juicy strawberry, — what of these? They may con- 
tain all five of the food principles, but who cares for 
the proteid action or carbohydrate effect of his cup 
of good coffee at breakfast, or what interest for us 
has the heating effect of the volatile oil to which the 
strawberry owes a part of its delicious taste? 

Surely the economical housekeeper who would 
throw out of the list of necessaries all the things that 
tickle the palate, that rouse the sense of smell, that 



10 Flavorings. 

please the eye and stimulate our tired nerves, just 
because these things contain but little food, would 
make a grave mistake. She may know just what cuts 
of meat to buy, what vegetables are most healthful 
and economical, but if she does not understand how 
to "make the mouth water," her labor is largely lost. 
Especially if she has but little money, should she pay 
great attention to this subject, for it is the only way 
to induce the body to take up plain food with relish. 
The list of these spices, flavors, harmless drinks 
and the like, is a long one. Unfortunately, we have 
no comprehensive word that will include everything 
of the sort, from a sprig of parsley to a cup of coffee; 
the German calls them " Genuss-mittel " — " pleasure- 
giving things." 

PROPORTIONS AND AMOUNTS OF POOD PRINCIPLES. 

We have brought our discussion of the three great 
food principles to the point where we can enquire in 
what proportions and amounts these should be repre- 
sented in our diet. 

The standard daily dietary that is most frequently 
cited, and which, perhaps, best represents the food 
consumption of the average European workman in 
towns, is that proposed by Prof. Voit. This dietary 
was made upon the basis of a large number of ob- 
served cases. It demands for a man of average size, 
engaged in average manual labor, 

Proteids.* Fats. Carbohydrates. 

118 gms. 56 gms. 500 gms. 

Now it is the opinion of all competent judges, that 

*28. 34 grams. = 1 oz. 



Standard Dietaries. 11 

a,t least one third of this proteid should come from 
the animal kingdom, and this one third, if given in 
the form of fresh beef, would be represented by 230 
grams of butcher's meat, calculated to consist of 
Bone and tendon, - - - - 18 gms. 

Fat, 21 " 

Lean, - - - - - - 191 " 

When we take whole populations into account, we 
find that little, if any, more meat than this falls to 
each person per day. Thus the average consumption 
per day for three great cities is given as follows; 
Berlin, - 135 g ms . p er ca p. 

New York, - 226 " " " 

London, - - - 274 " " " 

Of course these averages include children, but they 
also include great numbers of the well-to-do, who eat 
much more meat than their bodies need. 

We will add a few more examples of dietaries, 
some of which are used by the writer in making out 
the bills of fare given in this essay. 
Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 

Proposed by Prof. Voit for 
a man at hard work. 

Allowed to German soldiers 
in garrison. 

Proposed by Prof. Atwater 
for American at hard work. 

By the same for American 
at moderate work. 

Proposed by Prof. Voit for 
a woman. 

By the same for children 
from 7 to 15 years. 



gms. 


gms. 


gms. 


145 


100 


450 


120 


56 


500 


150 


150 


500 


125 


125 


450 


100 


60 


400 


80 


50 


320 



12 Standard Dietaries, 

We will give an instance of how much below these 
figures the amount consumed sometimes falls. 

Prof. Boehm found that a poor North German 
family, consisting of a man, wife and a child five 
years old, had in one week for their food : 

Potatoes, 41 lbs. 

Rye flour, 2^ lbs. 

Meat, ------ If lbs. 

Rice, i lb. 

Rye Bread, 12 lbs. 

A very little milk. 

Calculating the food principles contained in these 
amounts, we find that the three individuals daily 
consumed of: 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 

175.5 gms. 41 gms. 1251. gms. 

It needs no comment to show how insufficient is 
this dietary in amount, and how incorrect in pro- 
portion. 

We have selected Prof. Atwater's dietary for a man 
at moderate manual labor as the basis of our twelve 
bills of fare and have taken Voit's standard for women 
and children. 

Our climate is more trying and our people work 
faster, and we shall do well to allow more fat and meat 
to our working-man than the foreign dietaries provide. 
If our man is to get daily one-third of his proteid 
in the form of animal food, this would be represented 
by 8 ozs. of butcher's meat (without bone), by from 
5 to 5.8 ozs. cheese, or by 8 eggs. 



American Needs. 13 

We believe that it is better to go a little high rather 
than too low with proteid food. As a rule, people 
who eat enough porteids, and especially enough animal 
food, are vigorous and have what we call " stamina," 
and doctors incline to the belief that such people 
resist disease better because their blood and tissue are 
less watery than in the case of people who draw their 
proteids almost entirely from such vegetables as pota- 
toes. But many workingmen in America would be 
surprised to learn how well health and strength can 
be maintained on what is, after all, not such a very 
large amount of meat, provided the rest of the dietary 
contains enough vegetable proteid and fat. 

PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS. 

It now remains for us to see whether the economist 
can get practical help from the foregoing facts about 
the character of foods and the use that is made of 
them in the body. 

We have seen that we cannot economize in the 
amount of our food beyond certain limits and yet re- 
main healthy and strong ; also that we must not 
greatly alter the relative proportions in which expe- 
rience has shown that these foods are best combined. 
The true field of household economy has, then, 
certain prescribed limits. 

Its scope lies, 1st. In furnishing a certain food 
principle in its cheap rather than its dear form; 
for example, the proteid of beef instead of that of 
chicken, fat of meat instead of butter. 2nd. Hav- 
ing bought foods wisely, in cooking them in such a 
manner as to bring out their full nutritive value; for 



14 Scope of the Economist. 

instance, making a roast juicy and delicious instead 
of dry and tasteless. 3d. In learning how to use 
every scrap of food to advantage, as in soup making, 
and 4th, if we add to these the art of so flavoring and 
varying as to make simple materials relish, we have 
covered the whole field of the household economist, 
so far as the food question is concerned. 

We hope she will find help in the following pages, 
for it will be part of our task in this essay to examine 
different articles of food as to their nutritive value, and 
to recommend such combinations and such methods of 
cooking as will make the utmost out of a certain sum 
of money. As to foods, we have in America a large 
range of choice; staple raw products cost less generally 
than they do in Europe and the laboring man here 
has somewhat more money to buy with. The anxious 
provider, who must feed many mouths on what seems 
an insufficient sum, may feel assured that he can, 
without doubt, learn to do better than he now does. 
In this line we must not disdain to learn lessons 
wherever we can. 

There is an unfortunate prejudice among us against 
learning of foreign countries. The American work- 
man says indignantly that he does not want to learn 
how to live on "starvation wages." But the facts, 
viewed coolly, are just these: the inhabitants of older 
countries have learned some lessons that we too 
must soon learn whether we will or no, and to profit 
by these lessons before we are really obliged to, will 
in no way lower wages, it will simply help us to get 
more comfort and pleasure out of our money. 

Students of economy, political and domestic, find 



Lessons from Foreign Countries, 15 

no better school than the experience of older 
countries, and constantly draw lessons from their 
greater thrift and economy in living. Mrs. Helen 
Campbell found, among the poor sewing women of 
New York, that none were skillful in cooking their 
scanty food excepting only the German and Swiss 
women. All observing travelers unanimously give 
this testimony, — "If our American workman knew 
how to make as much of his large wage as the for- 
eigner does of bis small one, he could live in luxury." 

But you ask, what are the special lessons to be 
learned of the foreign housewife? We answer, chiefly 
self-denial and saving. Do not give up in despair 
because you have a small income and resign yourself 
to living meanly, in a hand to mouth fashion. Dili- 
gent study of the question and resolute abstention from 
luxuries will solve the problem, if it can be solved. 

We indulge ourselves and our children too much 
in what tastes good, while all the time we know we have 
not money enough to buy necessaries. For instance, 
the consumption of sugar in America was in 1887, 56 
lbs. per head, in Germany hardly more than one third 
that amount. This means a larger consumption of 
sweetmeats than we can afford and at the same time 
be well fed otherwise. 

We seem, in general, to spend too much money in 
our country on food compared with what we use in 
other directions; one great trouble is that we do not 
know how to save every scrap of food and use it 
again in some form. For one thing, we have yet to 
learn the great art of soup making, — and it seems 
also, of soup eating. 



16 Soups. 

The American housekeeper would say to me: " This 
is nothing new, for years we've been hearing about 
soups. We don't like soups! " I only ask, " have you 
tried them for a considerable length of time, so that 
you have become skilled in making them, and your 
family used to their taste?" One fact alone ought 
to insure for them a good trial; that at least three 
nations, the French, German and Italian, make daily 
use of them and have for generations. To take part 
of our food in this form is an absolute necessity if we 
are to do the best possible with a certain amount of 
money. 

PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 

The practical difficulties in the way of improve- 
ment in household cookery are nob small. As cook, 
we have the wife and mother, who has too little time 
for this very important branch of household work; 
she has had, perhaps, no good training in the art 
of cookery (for it is an art), and besides, her 
kitchen and kitchen utensils are not at all what 
they should be. Indeed, the qualifications for a given 
task could not well be further from the ideal. 

In Europe families of small means have many 
helps unknown to us. In the first place, bread is 
never baked at home, the bakers' bread being both 
excellent and cheap. It would seem that among us, 
bakers' bread must shortly improve in quality and 
decrease in price ; either the profits must be too 
large, or the business not well managed. For 
instance, in those parts of Germany where white 
bread is eaten as a staple, it costs a trifle over 3 



The Foreign Housekeeper. 17 

cents a pound, while flour of average quality costs 
about the same. In contrast with this, compare the 
prices of bread and flour in our own country where 
in no large city is bread quoted at less than 7 cents, 
while flour costs 3 cents. That is, bread costs in Ger- 
many about the same as flour and in America more 
than twice as much; and yet the German baker is no- 
tably a prosperous person ! 

The foreign housekeeper has still further help from 
the baker. If she makes a cake or pie, she sends it 
out to be baked, and pays from one to two cents 
(the fuel would have cost more); joints of meat and 
mixed dishes are also sent to be baked for the same 
price; and before any bakeshop in a German city, at 
noon on Sunday, can be seen a line of servant girls, 
each in turn receiving a steaming dish as it is taken 
from the oven. The soup kitchens ( Volks Kiichen) 
of various grades are also a great help. The writer 
has repeatedly had brought from one of them an excel- 
lent meat broth ( 1 pt. for 2 cents ), and good cooked 
vegetables are furnished for a price less than they 
could be cooked for at home, if one took any account 
of time and fire. 

But such helps are not yet to any great extent 
available to the American woman; she must wrestle 
with her own problem at home and solve it as best 
she can. 



THE KITCHEN. 



The kitchen of a woman of average means is not 
the ideal kitchen. It is perhaps too small or not 
light enough, or it may have still more serious defects, 
as a bad drain. We must take it as it is, however, 
requiring only that it contain what is necessary to 
the end we have in view, — plain cooking for a fam- 
ily of six. 

In the cheaper city dwellings the 

Size of Kitchen. , .. , . ,, , n * -i 

kitchen is small, too small tor good 
ventilation, and for the heavier kinds of work as 
washing; but for cooking, a very small kitchen can 
be so arranged as to answer every purpose. 

Any one who has seen a ship's kitchen can under- 
stand this. The cook as he stands before his range 
is within reach of all his stores, for rows of drawers 
and shelves literally line the walls from floor to ceil- 
ing, little tables for pastry or cake making are 
drawn out of the wall and pushed in again when not 
wanted, and every inch of floor and wall space is used 
to the best advantage. This cook would tell you that 
he did not want a larger kitchen ; he would only lose 
time running about in it. 

Begin to utilize the wall space. If 

Arrangement. , , , , , 

you have not yet as many shelves as 
the walls will accommodate, put up more, and espe- 

18 



Arrangement of Kitchen. 19 

cially about and above the stove, so that as you stand 
at your cooking you can reach salt, pepper and every 
other flavor that can be used in a soup or stew; cook- 
ing spoons and forks and knives, potlids and holders 
— all these should be at your hand. Let a carpenter 
fasten into the mortared wall strips of wood that will 
hold nails and a few shelves, and if the stove is in a 
niche with wall on two or even three sides of it, all 
the better. On these nails should hang nearly every 
implement used in cooking, and on the shelves should 
be found all spices and flavors; farther back can be 
placed what is more seldom used. If there are no 
drawers, never mind, use close tin boxes for as many 
things as you can; if no closed cupboard for your 
dishes, hang a curtain before the open shelves. 

The nearer your sink is to the stove the better, 
that is the path your feet must oftenest travel. 
There must be a table of some sort very near the 
stove; if it is a movable one, all the better, or it 
may be a broad shelf with a very strong and safe 
hinged support under it, letting down when not in 
use. 

I take for granted that the main part of your work 
is to be done on this stove and table, and that a well 
stocked pantry, fitted out for the making of pastry 
and cake and elaborate dishes, is not within your reach 
any more than the time for making such. 
^ ., The utensils you need are few, but 

Utensils 

these few you must have. Consider 
the value of the food materials that you use; a few 
burns on an old sauce pan will quite buy a new one. 
We will speak only of the most important and abso- 
lutely necessary utensils. 



20 Utensils. 

First, do not use tin ; it is cheap, but coal is not, 
and you will waste a great deal of coal in trying to 
cook in tin. Brass and copper cooking vessels are to 
be avoided by one who must economize, as they are 
expensive and require too much care to keep them 
free from the poisonous verdigris. 

Of chief importance among your utensils is a flat 
bottomed .iron pot with close fitting iron lid. Get 
the smoothest and best, even if it cost double. In 
this you will roast meat with little fire, cook vege- 
tables, all but peas and beans, cook anything indeed 
that is not acid. Have two of these, if you can, of 
different sizes. Next, an iron frying pan, also of 
the smoothest wrought iron and light; this too 
should have a close fitting cover. Some people con- 
sider iron utensils heavy and old fashioned, but where 
economy is an object, no other ware is so good and 
satisfactory. The blue or grey enamelled ware is very 
nice but will not stand great heat and easily chips 
and cracks, but you should have one kettle of this 
ware as it is valuable for cooking fruit and anything 
acid. You must have a wire gridiron for toasting 
bread and broiling meat ; this you should use for 
many things which you now cook in the frying pan. 
The tea-kettle is a matter of course, and a griddle. 
There is one other utensil not as common, but which 
deserves to be, viz., a steamer; a simple pot with 
perforated bottom which will fit tightly into the top 
of the iron pot, and have a very tightly fitting cover. 
Its use will be discussed later. 

You can hardly do without a number of earthen 
J u g s > glazed with lead-free enamel, especially for 



Fuel 21 

cooking and holding milk. Get also a number of 
wooden spoons; they are cheap and clean, and of con- 
venient shape for stirring. The old fashioned pud- 
ding stick of the Yankee kitchen is the earliest form 
among us, and many people know no other. 

A good stove is of first importance in a 
kitchen, but fortunately good stoves have 
become common. A graver question, however, is the 
cost of fuel to be burned in them. Of course coal 
must be the stand-by, and when the stove is heated 
up as on ironing and baking days, care can be taken 
to use the fire to its fullest capacity; in winter, 
dishes can be cooked ahead for several days. 

To cook a single dish or for boiling a tea- 
kettle a coal oil stove is a saving; it is also 
invaluable for keeping a pot at a simmering heat, — a 
thing very difficult to accomplish on a stove. 

For the same purpose, and for any steady 
cooking, and above all for broiling meat, every 
housekeeper ought to have appliances for burning 
charcoal; it only needs a grating with a rim 2 or 3 
inches high, to let down into the stove hole (a sort of 
deep spider with a grated bottom). For such pur- 
poses, a bushel of hard wood charcoal costing 15 or 
20 cents would last a long time. Charcoal is almost 
the only fuel used in Paris for cooking; indeed, 
throughout France and in Western Germany it is in 
very common use. 

For "Cooking Safe" as a saver of 

•'Cooking- Safe." „ 1 . . 

iuel, see page 44. 



PROTEID-COOTAIITO^G FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We have already in the Introduction called atten- 
tion to the importance of this food principle. It is 
well for us to bear in mind that there are three great 
classes of Proteids, Albumens proper, Caseins, and 
and Fibrins, and that in both plants and animals are 
found representatives of these three classes. Thus, 
in plant juices and in eggs we have things belonging 
to the Albumen class; in the curd of sour milk and 
in the legumine of the pod-covered plants we have 
examples of caseins; and in the gluten of grains and 
in the clot whipped out of blood we have examples 
of fibrins. 

ANIMAL FOODS. 

Our animal foods contain some other things that 
the housewife ranks with proteids and we have a few 
words to say aboirfcone of them, viz., gelatine, that 
nitrogenous substance boiled out of bones and car- 
tilage. 

In the history of foods this gelatine, 
Gelatine, is . o ^.^ mea ^ ex tract, has played a great 

part. Before the real functions of the food princi- 
ples were understood it was thought that what could 
be extracted by water from a piece of meat comprised 
all in it that was of value to the body; and so it hap- 

22 



Gelatine. 23 

pened that for more than a hundred years after Papin 
had discovered the method of extracting all the gel- 
atine out of bones (which he did by the aid of that 
contrivance still known in kitchens as the "Papin 
Soup Digester ") gelatine was considered to be one of 
the most, if not the most nourishing constituent of 
meats. In the last decade of the 18th century, and 
in the early part of this the French made great use 
of gelatine under the impression that it was a proteid 
because it yielded nitrogen to the chemist. Improved 
methods of extracting it were invented, and so gen- 
eral did its use become, especially in the public insti- 
tutions of Paris, that from 1829-38, two and three 
quarters million portions of bone-gelatine soup were 
dealt out to the inmates of a single hospital. But in 
spite of the opinions of eminent scientists that gela- 
tine soups and gelatine tablets were a perfect substi- 
tute for proteids, their consumption decreased; physi- 
cians again took hold of the subject, and by the 
middle of the century opinion had so changed that 
nearly all, if not all, food value was denied to them. 
Modern experimentation based on more rational meth- 
ods has put gelatine in its right place. It is a food, just 
as much so as is fat, but like fat it cannot play the 
role of proteid although a certain amount taken with 
fats and carbohydrates will enable the body to get 
along with a little less proteid. It is even said by 
Prof. Voit to excel fat in its ability to do half duty 
for proteid material. 

We have thought it well to speak of this because 
of a sort of superstitious regard in the kitchen for 
" stock," a survival, one would think, of Papin's time. 



24 Extractives. 

A good German housewife was wont to discourse to 
the writer on the economical virtues of a certain 
"Frau Doctor" who "always boiled her bones three 
times " and dwellers in many a household have had 
their nostrils assailed by the smell of glue, during 
the sixth hour of bone boiling. 

But if the importance of gelatine was and is still 
exaggerated, this is still more true of the other parts 
of meat that can be extracted by water. 
Sol. Albumen and We have seen that hot water coag- 

Extractives. ulates proteid, and once coagulated, 
it will not dissolve in water, and for this reason the 
soup generally contains of this valuable principle only 
the soluble albumen which rose as scum. If the cook 
has skimmed this off, the soup which she calls strong 
is strong with flavors rather than with nutritive princi- 
ples. 

To show how very little real food a good tasting 
meat soup may contain, we will give an analysis made 
by Prof. Konig. 

He took 1 lb. of beef and about 6| 
oz. of veal bones, and treated them, he 
says, as is usually done in the kitchen to get a pint 
of good strong soup or bouillon. This contained 

Proteids, Fat, Extractives, Salts. 

1.190 1.480 1.830 .320 

But where are the albumens that were in the meat 
to begin with ? Many of them are still there in that 
stringy, sodden mass, the "soup meat," which the 
cook tells us contains no further value. It consists 
of cooked connective tissue and albumen; now these 



Kbnig's Analysis of Soup. 25 

are foods and they must be rescued from the garbage 
barrel, for with the help of the chopping knife and 
the herb bag we can make them still do proteid duty 
in our bodies. 

Real importance If we do not overvalue either the 
of soup. gelatine or the flavoring matters in our 
meat soups, nor throw away the meat out of which 
they are made, we shall begin to make soups on the 
right basis, that is an understanding of the real value 
of the materials we are working with, and we shall use 
meat for our soups less often than we now do perhaps, 
considering its high price and our greater need of it 
cooked in other ways. Soups should not be regarded 
as a luxury, neither as the last resort of poverty, but 
as a necessary part of a dinner, just as they are now 
used by all classes in Europe; but they need not be 
made of good cuts of meat, nor indeed, of meat at all. 
Proteid as we We will now direct our attention to 

buy it. the proteid as we buy it. 

We cannot here take up the chemical composition 
and exact nutritive value of every kind of meat to be 
bought at the butcher's stall, the fish market and the 
poultry stand. But we must note a few points of 
importance. 

We know that butchers' meat con- 
tains from 50fo to VSfo of water, accord- 
ing to the quality of the piece and the kind of animal. 
Most people in buying meat think first of the <red 
part ; they may know that it is advantageous to buy 
meat that is streaked with fat, but they hardly realize 
how wise it is to do so. As a rule, fat takes the place 
of water. Let us consult tables of analyses for the 

3 



26 Analysis of Meats. 

amounts of water, proteids and nitrogenous extrac- 
tives, fats and salts contained in lean pieces and in 
pieces streaked with fat. In Prof. Konig's valuable 
treatise on Foods we find such analyses, carefully col- 
lected and sifted out of a large amount of material; 
Prof. Konig's An- samples of neck, tenderloin, shoul- 
aiyses of Meat. d er> hind-quarter and so on, just as 
bought at the butchers', were analyzed after being 
freed from adherent lump fat, and the average com- 
position of all the different cuts was as follows: — 

Fat and lean ox Water Nitrogenous -p . 
compared. Substances 

% % % 

From a very fat ox _.. 55.42 17.19 26.38 

From a medium fat ox 72.25 20.91 5.19 

From a lean ox 76.71 20.78 1.50 

These tables illustrate how wise it is to buy meat 
from a very fat animal. They show that a pound of 
meat from a fat ox may have more than 20$ less 
water than a corresponding piece from a lean one; of 
course such a piece may contain from 3 to 4$ less 
proteid, but to compensate for this, it will have 25$ 
more fat. 

Let us give another table which illustrates that 
pieces like tenderloin are not the richest in proteids 
and fats, though they do have the finest flavor. It 
may help to console those whose purses do not allow 
them to buy these expensive cuts. 



Different Cuts Compared, 27 

Dif.partofox Wfltpr Nitrogenous F . 

compared VV e Substances * at 

% % % 

Neck 73.5 19.5 5.8 

Shoulder 50.5 14.5 34. 

Tenderloin 63.4 18.8 16.7 

Hind-quarter 55.05 20.81 23.32 

In this case the difference between shoulder and 
tenderloin as to the amount of water contained in 
each is striking. In the case of medium fat and lean 
animals, poor and good pieces approach each other 
more nearly in composition. 

We regret that the scope of this essay will not allow 
us to give drawings and full illustrations of the dif- 
ferent parts of an animal, with advice in detail as to 
what to buy. We are glad to mention in this connec- 
tion a former prize essay — " Healthy Homes and 
Foods for the Working Classes" — which gives much 
information needed by the housekeeper as to the 
qualities and comparative value of the meat from dif- 
ferent animals, of milk and milk products. 
Some meats com- Of butchers' meat beef must always 
pared. k e considered the most economical, its 
choice being governed by facts just stated. Fat mut- 
ton also ranks high. 

Pork. Say what we may against 
pork, it is a most valuable kind of 
meat, especially for the poor man, and the laws gov- 
erning its slaughter and sale should be so stringent 
as to protect him. The great importance of salt pork 
and bacon we have considered under "Fats." 

It is of little use to give rules about buying this 
meat • we must generally take what the butcher fur- 



28 Fish. 

nishes, but at least we can cook it well, never eating 
it raw even when well dried and smoked. 

Fish. From the standpoint of the 
economist fish is worthy of especial 
mention; nature does the feeding, we have only to 
pay for the catching. In the season when it is best 
and cheapest, fresh fish should be used freely. We 
have only to remind the housewife that she loses £ to 
\ of the weight of a fish in bones and head. 
Salted and smoked Salted and smoked fish is of great 
fish- importance as food, and not alone for 

people living on the sea-coast. Salted cod contains, 
according to Konig's tables, 30$ of Proteids, and this 
fact, together with its low price, fully justifies its 
popularity with all economical people. 

Other salted and preserved fish, as for instance, the 
herring, give variety in the diet of many a poor family. 

LIVER, HEART, ETC. 

internal Organs. Of the internal organs of animals gen- 
erally considered eatable, we really appreciate only the 
liver. The lungs, brains, kidneys, heart, and the 
stomach prepared as tripe, are good food and they are 
often sold very cheap in country towns. The head of 
most animals, as of the calf, is excellent for soups and 
other dishes, and in the country it is often given away. 

EGGS. 

Eggs compared To- get an idea of the comparative 

with meats as 

a food. value oi eggs as a iood let us compare 

them with medium fat beef. 

Water Proteids Fat 

% % % 

Medium fat beef has _. 72.5 21. 5.5 

Eggs have 74.5 12.5 12. 



Eggs. 29 

We see that while the water is nearly the same in 
both, the meat has the advantage in proteids and the 
eggs the advantage in fat, this fat, moreover, being 
of very fine quality. 

Take eggs at their cheapest, as in April when they 
often sell at 15 cents a dozen, that would be 12^ cents 
a pound, 10 eggs of average size weighing a pound. 
They could then be considered cheaper than the high- 
est priced cuts of meat, bat still much dearer than 
the cheaper parts, flank, neck and brisket, at 8 cents. 
So that even at this low price, they are somewhat of 
a luxury to the man who must get his proteid and fat 
in their cheapest form. 

And when we consider that only for a short time 
in the year is the price so low, — eggs being on an 
average quoted at 25 to 30 cents, the showing for them 
as a proteid rival of meat is poor indeed. Except in 
the Spring the economically inclined must be sparing 
of their use even in dessert dishes. When house- 
keepers say, as I have heard them, that eggs at 25 
cents a dozen are cheaper than meat, they must be 
speaking in comparison with very high priced meats. 

CHEESE. 

cheese (its food In America, cheese is regarded more 
value.) ag a j uxur y t] ian ag a s taple article of 

food, and yet 1 lb. of cheese is equal in food value to 
more than 2 lbs. of meat, it being very rich in both 
fat and proteids. Considering this, its price is very 
low and it ought to be a treasure to the poor man 
and do good service in replacing sometimes the more 
expensive meat. 



30 Food Value of Cheese. 

Use of cheese Its food value is fully recognized 

abroad. abroad. For the Swiss peasant it is a 

staple second only to bread, while the use of it in 
Italy and in Germany is extensive. The writer once 
spent several weeks in the house of a large farmer on 
the slope of Mt. Pilatus in Switzerland, and observed 
daily the food given to the harvesters; the luncheon 
sent twice a day to the fields consisted of a quarter 
section of the grayish skim cheese, accompanied with 
bread. I was told that the poor people in the region 
ate scarcely any meat, using cheese in its stead. 

The writer has also observed the use of cheese in 
Germany. Every locality has its special variety of 
the soft kind made of sour milk, and great amounts 
of the Swiss, both skim and full milk, cheese are con- 
sumed. It is generally eaten uncooked, but also as an 
addition to cooked food in a great variety of dishes. 
Digestibility of There is no doubt of the food value of 
cheese. cheese, but there does seem to be some 

question as to its digestibility. When we come to 
inquire into this point, we find that thorough experi- 
ments have been made by German scientists; Dr. 
Eiibner, a pupil of Voit, gives the result of experi- 
ments on himself. He found that he could not con- 
sume much of it alone, but with milk he took easily 
200 grams, or nearly \ lb., and only when he took as 
high as 517 grams or over a pound daily, was it less 
completely digested than meat. Prof. Konig says, 
that in the amounts in which it is generally eaten, 
125 to 250 grams daily (^ to \ lb.), it is as well digest- 
ed as meat or eggs. The extensive use of it abroad 
would seem to be some guarantee for the digestibility 
of the foreign varieties at least. 



Digestibility of Cheese. 31 

American cheeses have in general a sharper flavor 
than the foreign, still it is probable that well mixed 
with other food, enough could be taken many a time, 
to give a man his needed daily quantity of animal 
proteid, — between six and seven ounces, — and this is 
a matter of great importance from an economical point 
of view. 



METHODS OF COOKING MEAT. 



why cook. And first — why do we cook it at all? 

In the animal as well as in the vegetable world some 
foods are all ready for our digestion, as milk. Raw 
eggs too, are perfectly digestible and are often given 
to invalids. We hear, of " Raw meat cures," and 
it has been found that tender and juicy raw meat, if 
chopped fine to break the connective tissue, is well 
digested. 

But raw meat does not taste good to most of us, 
while the delicious flavor and odor of a broiled steak 
make it very acceptable to the palate, and we must 
believe to the stomach also. We "bring out the 
flavor," as we say, by cooking; what else do we do? 
Let us examine for a moment a piece of meat with 
structure of reference to the effect heat has upon it. 

meat. The red part is made up of, first, very 

tiny sausage-like bags, or muscle fibres as they are 
called, and in these is contained the precious proteid 
matter, flavors and salts all mixed together with 
water into a sort of jelly; second, these muscle fibres 
are bound together by strands of connective tissue, 
as that white stringy mass is called, in which the fat 
and blood vessels are lodged; this is also of food 
value, but inferior to the fibres. Third, dissolved 
in the juices floating between the fibres and strands, 

32 



Examination of Meat Fibre. 33 

there is also a proteid called soluble albumen. The 
little bags of proteid, when we can get at them, are 
as digestible in our stomachs as is the white of egg, 
though, like the egg again, their flavor is improved by 
slight cooking. But, as we have seen, they are 
imprisoned in the connective tissue, somewhat, we 
may say, as are the starch grains of the potato in the 
cellulose. 
Softening eonnec- This connective tissue we can soft- 

tive tissue. e n by heat, thereby turning it into 
a sort of gelatine, but unfortunately, unless the meat 
is very tender, this requires a longer application of 
heat than is needed to cook the delicate albumen all 
full of flavors too easily lost. To soften the connect- 
ive tissue without overcooking the albumen, is one 
of the problems of meat cookery. 

The next question is, how do our methods of cook- 
ing meet these requirements? 

COOKING MEAT IN" WATER. 

1st. Method. p u t a piece of lean meat into cold 
water, heat it very slowly and watch the effect. The 
water becomes slightly red, then cloudy, and as the 
heat increases, yellowish in color, and finally it clears, 
sending a scum to the surface. If we examine this 
scum, we find that the water has soaked out much 
soluble albumen and a large proportion of the salts 
of the meat as well as other substantives called extrac- 
tives; and now the odor of the boiling meat begins to 
fill the kitchen. The longer and slower the warming 
process, the more of all these things we shall extract, 
and the meat when taken out will be in just that 
proportion poor. 



34 First Method of Cooking Meat. 

Soup making. This is the process known as soup 

making, — very simple, if we care noth- 
ing for the piece of meat but to soak out of it all the 
food and flavors possible. After some hours of cook- 
ing we find it shrunken, gray and tasteless. A dog 
if fed on that alone could not live many days. How- 
ever, as we have before said, we are not to conclude, 
that it contains no more nutriment, but the stomach 
rejects it now that it is separated from all the flavoring 
matters. 

2nd Method. Now put a piece of meat into 

boiling water and continue the boiling. The sur- 
face of the meat suddenly whitens and a little 
scum rises on the water, though very little compared 
with what we saw in the former method. We have 
coagulated the albumen contained in all the little 
cells in the surface of the meat, and the soluble albu- 
men, flavoring matters and salts cannot get out; the 
sealing up is not quite perfect, enough escaping into 
the water to make it a weak soup, but it is a good meth- 
od of cooking a large piece if properly completed from 
this point. But if we go on boiling our meat, that is, 
keeping the temperature at 212°, we shall overcook 
the albumen in the outer layers before that in the 
center is coagulated. By overcooking, we mean 
making it horny and flavorless, as we do the white of 
an egg if we cook it in the old-fashioned way, by 
dropping into boiling water and keeping it at that 
heat. Having seared the outside of the meat to keep 
the juices in, we must lower the temperature. The 
albumen coagulates at between 160° and 170°, but 
the water in the kettle may be a little above this, as 



Second Method of Cooking Meat. 35 

it must constantly transfer heat to the interior 
of the meat. The general rule is that it should 
"bubble" or "simmer" only, and if the cook can do 
no better she must follow these indications. That 
the true temperature for cooking meat is below the 
boiling point, many an intelligent housekeeper knows, 
but how is she to know when the water is at 170°? 
Here we come upon the weakest point in household 
cookery ; various degrees of heat have different effects 
on the foods we cook, but of only one temperature is 
the housekeeper certain — that of boiling water. 

For the use of the thermometer and the heat saver 
see pages 43 and 44. 

But to return ; is there no way of cooking that will 
keep in the meat all these flavors and salts and albu- 
mens, just as nature mixed them ? Yes, there are 
three ways, — frying in fat, baking in an oven, and 
broiling over coals. 

We will examine the first. If we 
plunge a thin piece of meat, as a cut- 
let coated with egg and breadcrumbs, into boiling 
fat, the albumen in the surface or rather in that of 
the egg surrounding it is coagulated as in boiling, 
but this time the outer rind preserves the juices still 
better because the fat will not mix with them as will 
water. Everyone knows how an oyster cooked in 
this way retains its juices. 

When we bake a piece of meat in the 

Baking meat. . , . . , 

oven, we start m the same way; we 
sear the outside in fat, turning the roast about in a 
small quantity of fat made hot in a kettle; we then 
transfer it, still in the kettle or pan, to a hot oven 



36 Baking Meat. 

where the process of cooking is completed, but at 
short intervals we moisten the surface with the fat in 
the pan. If we did not baste the roast, we would 
find a thick layer of grey, tasteless meat inside the 
outer brown crust, and indeed the whole piece would 
dry long before the center of our roast had reached 
the coagulating point; we baste, in order to keep 
in the juices which, as we know, will not mix with 
the fat, and also that only a mild degree of heat, not 
exceeding the coagulating point of proteids, may be 
transmitted to the interior. In the intervals of our 
basting, some water is driven out of the meat and 
evaporated into steam, and the high heat of the oven 
expends itself in evaporating this, in heating the 
basting fat, and perhaps ( if it reach so high a tem- 
perature ) in decomposing part of it, and in changing 
the chemical character of small quantities of extrac- 
tives, thus making the meat " tasty," and so it hap- 
pens that only a mild degree of heat is passed into 
the center of the piece. We would hardly believe 
that the inside of a roast, with its light pink color, 
registers only 1G0° by the thermometer, yet this can 
be proved by anyone with a long chemist's thermom- 
eter. 

Although some of the water of our meat has evap- 
orated, the extractives and salts are retained to a 
larger extent than in boiling, as we shall see by the 
table given later. 

In broiling, the principle applied is 

Broiling. & ' l . , , - . , 

exactly the same as in baking, the 
cooking being done by the medium of heated air. 
The dry heat of the coals affects the outer layer of 



Broiling Meat. 37 

the meat, as does the hot air of the oven. In both 
these methods, just as in boiling, we try to hold 
the temperature of our cooking medium just high 
enough to keep the heat traveling toward the in- 
terior of the meat. 

We have now learned to cook the albumen enough 
and not too much and to keep the flavors of our meat; 
what about the connective tissue, and how has that 
fared with our different modes of cooking? 

If our meat is cut from the tenderer 
parts of an animal of the right age, well 
fed and fattened, and if it has been kept long enough 
after killing, the connective tissue will soften into 
eatable condition in the length of time required to 
cook the albumen by the methods described. Such 
meat, so cooked, will always be tender and full of 
flavor. 

But if the meat is cut from the 

Tough meat. , , . n .„ 

tougher parts, or from an old or ill- 
fattened animal, or cooked too soon after killing, the 
connective tissue will not soften in that time ; we 
must continue the application of heat till this tissue 
softens. 
Methods com- Therefore, what method of cooking 

trquaiiy' of we sha11 use > de P ends on the quality of 
meat. the meat we have. Trimmings and 

tough portions we will make into soup, expecting to 
chop the tasteless meat next day and add other flavors 
to make it palatable. Somewhat better pieces, but 
still requiring long cooking to soften the connective 
tissue, may be made into a stew or ragout; or if the 
piece is large and compact, boiled in water; but meat 



38 Methods Compared. 

that is tender and juicy (and for improving tough 
meat see page 45 ) should be boiled, baked or broiled, 
choosing oftenest the last two methods, because of 
the more perfect retention of the juices and the fine 
flavor given to the outer layer. 

We are told that baking or broiling 

2d, as to economy. . - , • i • , 

is a very wasteful way of cooking meat ; 
that if we would be truly economical we would always 
boil or stew, using our meat or its juices to flavor 
vegetables. From this we must dissent for it would 
condemn us to such a monotony as would be unen- 
durable even to the poor. Better sometimes a 
smaller piece of broiled or baked meat with its deli- 
cious and stimulating flavor, and make our soup of 
vegetables and season it with herbs. Besides, accord- 
ing to the scientists, baking and broiling are not 
wasteful methods. I quote from a table of Prof. 
Konig's, wherein are given the results of analysis of 
beef raw, after boiling and after "braten." Eaw, it 
contained .86 $ extractives (nitrogenous bodies most- 
ly; very important as giving the stimulating smell 

and taste) and 1.23$ salts. 

Extractives Salts 

Raw 86$ 1.23$ 

After boiling.. 40$ 1.15$ 

After "braten" .72$ 1.45$ 

The advantage is seen to be in favor of " braten " 
both in regard to extractives and salts. The loss of 
water was nearly the same in both cases. As for the 
fat lost in broiling a beef steak, that is indeed a loss, 
but one to be made up in some measure by the smaller 
quantity of fuel necessary to cook the meat. The 



Soup Making. 39 

loss of this fat need not be made so much of, until we 
have learned to do better in many other still more 
important directions. 

The philosophy of cooking meat according to the 
different methods has been treated, and we will now 
give a few additional directions as to carrying out 
these methods. 

SOUP MAKING. 

Materials for Soup Lean m eat of any sort, beef best; 
making. fresh, better than that long kept; 

bones of next value, especially the spongy rib bones 
and vertebrae. Saw and chop the bones into little 
pieces, — cut the meat small. Soft water is better 
than hard. 
Method of Keep a kettle, if possible, for this 

making. purpose alone, and add to it all bits of 

meat and bones as they accumulate. Put the meat 
into cold water, let it stand some hours if possible, 
heat very gradually and keep simmering. Two hours 
or less brings out all the flavors of the meat, but a 
much longer time is necessary to get all the nutri- 
ment from the bones. 

Do not remove the scum; it contains 
the albumen of the soup, and nothing 
objectionable if the meat was well cleaned. 

An hour before the soup is served add flavors; 
onions and carrots are the best, celery, summer sa- 
vory, and parsley next. Use others, as cloves, nut- 
meg, bay leaf, etc., only occasionally. Add salt and 
pepper just before serving. 

When done, strain and skim off all fat (better if 



40 Boiling Meat. 

left to stand till next day, the fat removed and the 
soup simply rewarmed), and make such additions as 
you wish. 

[We prefer our soups with the fat removed, but 
the laboring people of Europe with their hardy stom- 
achs find a soup much better if covered with "eyes."] 

These rules apply to all meat soups. Mutton 
makes a strong and nutritious soup, veal a delicate 
soup. An excellent soup is made from a calfs head. 

BOILING. 

Put the meat into boiling water, bring 

To boil meat. . , , . , ., , , „ 

quickly again to a boil and keep so for 
10 minutes, then lower the temperature (as see page 
35), and so keep it till the meat in the center has 
reached 160°-170°, or has changed in color from 
bluish to red, our usual test. For use of the " Cook- 
ing Safe" for this purpose, see page 44. Braising, 
"a la mode", kettle roasts, &c, are but modifications 
of this method. 

To make meat This is a combination of soup mak- 
stews. ing and boiling. Use inferior parts, 

cut in pieces and cook, at 170° if possible, till tender. 
Half an hour before serving, season in any way you 
wish. See page 47. 

FRYING IN FAT. 

How to prepare Lard if used for this purpose should 

Suet in which to,,., ,, , , , . , , . 

fry meat. be tried out at home, but beef fat is 

cheaper and if nicely prepared no one can object to 
the taste. 



Frying in Fat. 41 

Out the fresh suet in pieces, and cover with cold 
water; let it stand a day, changing the water once in 
the time. This takes out the peculiar tallowy taste. 
Now put it in an iron kettle, with a half teacup of 
milk to each pound of suet, and let it cook very 
slowly till the fat is clear, and light brown in color, 
and till the sound of the cooking has ceased. The 
pieces may be loosened from the bottom with a spoon, 
but it is not to be stirred; if it burns the taste is 
ruined. Now let it stand and partly cool, then pour 
off into cups to become cold; it smells as sweet as 
butter and can in many cases be used instead of it. 
The fat left still in the pieces may be pressed out for 
less particular uses. 

Any clean fat, even mutton, has its uses in cookery, 
and should be tried out and kept nicely. 
Oils for use in There are oils now sold which but 
frying. f or prejudice we would always use. 

Pure cotton seed oil is a fine oil with a delicate flavor; 
rape seed oil, which is used extensively abroad for 
this purpose, is also a pure vegetable oil, but some- 
what rank in flavor. It is treated thus: a raw pota- 
to is cut up and put into the kettle, heating with the 
oil and cooking till it is brown, it is then taken out 
and the oil used like lard. The potato has absorbed 
the rank flavor. 

Thin pieces of meat, like cutlets and chops, are 
coated with beaten egg and bread crumbs and cooked 
in boiling fat for 5-10 minutes, according to the kind 
of meat. 

Make some beef fat hot in an iron pan 
or broad kettle. Put the meat into it, 
4 



42 Baking Meat. 

and with a fork stuck into thafat part, turn it rapidly 
till it is on all sides a fine brown, then put it into a hot 
oven (about 340° F. ), elevating it above the pan on a 
meat rack, or a few iron rods. Now comes the pro- 
cess called basting; in five minutes or less 
you will find that the top of the meat 
has dried, and you must now dip, with a spoon, the 
hot fat from the pan over the top. Do this every few 
minutes adding no ivater to the pan; you will find 
your meat well cooked in from 12-15 minutes to the 
pound. It is done when it has lost, in the middle, 
the blue color, and become a fine red. Only salt and 
pepper should be used to season such a roast, and 
must be added when the meat is half done; if earlier, 
it toughens the fibres. 

But when fuel is expensive, or in 

To broil meat. , , . ~ 

summer when a hot nre is a nuisance, 
the perfectly cooked meat can also be obtained by 
broiling; the management of the fire is the only 
trouble. We are told that a beefsteak for broiling 
should be cut f of an inch thick, and put over a hot 
fire of coal or charcoal; quite right, but when it has 
browned quickly, as it should, and been turned and 
browned on the other side, it yet remains raw in the 
middle and if left longer, the surface burns. This is 
the experience of the novice, who has yet to learn 
two things; first, that immediately after the first 
browning, the fire must decrease in heat, or the meat 
be brought further away, so that the steak may cook 
10-12 minutes without burning — less time will not 
cook it nicely in the middle; and second, that like 
baked meat, the surface must be kept moist with hot 



Broiling Meat. 43 

fat. Before your steak is put over (unless it be 
very well streaked with fat), cover both sides with 
melted suet, and afterwards, as it dries, spread on 
a little butter or beef fat. Have ready in a hot 
platter a few spoonsful of water in which the bones 
cut from the steak have been boiling, also salt and 
pepper. When the steak is done, lay it in the platter 
and keep it hot for five minutes, turning it once in 
the time; thus you will have both good steak and 
good gravy. 

Professional cooks always use charcoal 

Use of charcoal. „ . . , . , . , z. . 

for broiling, and its advantages are 
great. As described on page 21 it needs only a sim- 
ple contrivance, easily adjusted to any stove; a hand- 
ful will broil a pound of steak, and the cooking of 
the rest of the dinner can go on without interference. 

USE OF THE THERMOMETER IN" COOKING MEAT. 

To cook meat at a temperature of between 150° 
and 160° F., is no easy matter with the usual kitchen 
appliances. Even over an easily regulated heater, as 
a gas or coal oil flame, how are we to know that tem- 
perature when it is reached ? The writer, knowing 
of no thermometer arranged for use in a kitchen, con- 
structed a simple one after the model of those used in 
laboratories. A thermometer tube registering 300° 
Celsius was simply fastened into a cork, the bulb 
projecting below and protected by a short cylinder of 
wood. This floated on the water and made it easy 
to cook at any given temperature. This thermome- 
ter was also hung in a light wire frame and used for 
testing the heat of an oven. 



44 The Heat Saver. 

THE HEAT SAVER. 

It is a part of common information that the in- 
habitants of northern countries make extensive use 
of non-conducting substances, like wool, for prevent- 
ing the escape of heat from a vessel in which cooking 
is going on. It is strange that we do not make more 
use of such appliances, for they have often been de- 
scribed and illustrated; it is probably because they 
are not found ready-made, and with a complete list 
of directions for use. The writer made and used a 
cooker of this sort, and after considerable modifica- 
tion and experiment it became a very useful thing 
in the kitchen. If you wish to cook meat at the 
proper temperature, this contrivance makes it possi- 
ble to do so, and is also very saving of fuel. 
Directions for Take a packing box measuring, sav, 

making Heat \ & °\ J ' 

Saver. * feet each way and cover the bottom 

with a layer of packed wool 4 to 6 inches thick ; set 
into the middle of this another box or a cylinder of 
sheet iron and fill the space between the two with 
a layer of wool, 4 to 6 inches thick and closely 
packed. Into the inner compartment put your ket- 
tle of meat or vegetables already brought to the boil- 
ing point and having a tightly fitting cover, and over 
this press a thick pillow or woolen blanket. Then 
fasten down tight over all, the lid of your box. As 
the heat in the water must finish the cooking already 
begun, its amount must be rightly proportioned to 
the amount of food to be cooked, e. g., two quarts of 
water to 1$ lbs. beef rib, were used. The water was 
brought to the boiling point, the meat placed in it 
and allowed to boil for five minutes, the pot was 



Treatment of Tough Meat. 45 

then tightly covered, placed in the box and allowed 
to remain three hours. At the end. of that time the 
meat was tender. 

TO MAKE MEAT TENDER. 

To make meat it j s we ll known that meat must be 
kept some time after killing to make it 
tender. In winter, a large piece of beef or mutton 
will keep for six weeks if hung in a dry, cool place. 
Indeed, this is the time allowed in England for the 
Christmas " shoulder of mutton," and every few days 
it is rubbed over with salt and vinegar. In summer, 
unless the butcher will keep the meat for you, you 
must resort to other means. 

A tough piece of meat may be laid in not too strong 
vinegar for 3 or 4 days in summer and twice as long in 
winter, adding to the vinegar such spices as you may 
like. To soften a tough steak pour a few spoonfuls 
of vinegar on and let stand for twelve or twenty-four 
hours. This method has been long recommended and 
is to some extent used among us; the foreign cook em- 
ploys sour milk for the same purpose and with even 
greater success, but this must be-changed every day and 
at the end of the time well washed from the meat. 

We cannot too strongly urge that the housekeeper, 
especially if she be straightened in means, should be- 
come used to these methods and practice them occa- 
sionally. She does not want to confine herself to soups 
and stews and she cannot buy "porter-house" steak 
at 20 or 25 cents a pound, but she can buy "round" 
at half that price, and after a little experiment can 
make it tender for boiling, roasting or broiling by one 
of these methods. In winter, she should buy a supply 
of meat ahead and keep it until it grows tender. 



RECIPES FOE COOKING MEATS. 



The methods of cooking meat having been treated 
and mention made of the parts adapted to each, 
it remains only to give practical hints as to making 
and varying dishes. 

BEEF. 

Boiled, roast and broiled beef have been sufficient- 
ly dwelt upon. See pages 40-43. 

stews and Ra- No mode of cooking meat has so 
gouts. many variations; the flavor of the 

meat being used to season vegetables of every sort, 
also doughs, as in dumplings, or in the crust of meat 
pie. For making meat stews see page 40. 

One-half hour before the meat is 
done lay on top of it peeled potatoes, 
all of the same size, and serve when done with the 
meat and gravy. 

When the meat is cooked tender, 
thicken the gravy and pour all into a 
pie or pudding dish. Cover with a common pie crust 
or one of mashed potatoes, and bake \ hour. 

You may also mix sliced raw potatoes with the stew, 
in layers. 

Potato Crust. 1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 cup of milk, salt. Beat to- 

46 



Beef. 47 

gether till smooth, and then work in enough flour so 
that you can roll it out. It should be \ in. thick, 
and as soft as you can handle. 

Add to meat when tender, 1 qt. to- 
matoes to 2 lbs. meat. Thicken with 
flour and stew 5 minutes. 

Stews are variously flavored : onion, 

Flavors for stews. , , , , , 

salt and pepper, are always in place. 
A little lemon juice added as it is served gives a deli- 
cious flavor, or even a tablespoon of vinegar may be 
used. Any herbs, a piece of carrot, a clove or bit of 
garlic, may be used for variety. Catsup is also good 
as a flavor. 

Comed Beef. Wash it well, put into plenty of cold 
water and bring slowly to the simmering point. 
Cook 3 to 4 hours. 

Turnips or cabbage are often eaten with corn 
beef. They should not be boiled with the meat but 
in a separate pot. 

If from a good animal, beef liver is 

often as tender as calf's liver. 

This is the best method. Soak an 

hour in cold water, wipe dry, slice and 
dip in melted beef fat. Broil slowly (see page 42) till 
thoroughly done; then salt and butter. 

When prepared as above, the slices of 

liver may be fried in a pan with a little 
beef fat. This gives an opportunity for more flavors, 
as onion may be fried with it, a little vinegar added to 
the juices that fry out, then thickened and used as 

gravy. 

If liver is not quite tender it can be 
made into a stew, or it may be chopped 



48 Recooking Beef. 

fine, mixed with bread crumbs and egg and baked ^ 

hour. 

If fire is no object, you may boil a 

beef's heart, it will take all day. Put 

into cold water and bring slowly to the simmering 

point and keep it there. Next day it may be stuffed 

with well seasoned bread crumbs and baked J hour. 

Cut in strips, soak in salt and vine- 
Tripe 

gar i day, wipe dry and fry in hot lard. 

It may also be stewed. 

RECOOKING BEEF. 

(A.) Boiled, baked or broiled beef which is ten- 
der and full of flavor. 

To serve roast beef a second time. 
Roast beef re- Heat the gravy, put the roast in it. 
served. After trimming it into shape again, 

cover closely and put into a hot oven for ten minutes 
or less according to size of piece. 

Or, cut in slices and lay in hot gravy only long 
enough to heat them through. 

Being full of flavor such meat may 
be chopped and mixed with from ^ to ^ 
as much chopped or mashed potatoes, bread crumbs 
or boiled rice. These mixtures may be warmed as 
hash, or made into cakes or balls to be fried on a grid- 
dle or in boiling fat. 

Mix the chopped meat with the potatoes, bread- 
crumbs or rice as above, add salt and pepper and 
make quite moist with water or soup. Put a good 
piece of butter or of beef fat into a spider, and when 
it is hot, put in the hash. Cover and let it steam, 



Recoolcing Soup Meat. 49 

then remove cover and let it dry out while a brown 
crust forms on the bottom. Or, stir till hot and 
dish immediately. 

Make not quite as moist as for hash, 

form into little cakes, dust with flour, 

and fry to a nice brown in a little beef dripping on a 

griddle. Or, egg and bread crumb the balls, and fry 

in boiling fat. 

(B.) KECOOKIKG SOUP MEAT. 

This meat, though made tender by long cooking, 
has given much of its flavor to the soup. It has 
not, to the same degree, however, lost its nutritive 
value; if we can make it taste good again, both palate 
and stomach will approve it. 

It will not do to mix this meat with neutral sub- 
stances like potatoes and bread; it needs addition 
rather than subtraction. 

In any case, first chop the meat very fine. 
Pressed soup Season the chopped beef well with 

meat. sa lt and pepper, and some other addi- 

tion, as celery salt or nutmeg, or some of the sweet 
herbs. Moisten with soup or stock, pack in a square, 
deep tin and place in the oven for a short time. To 
be sliced cold, or warmed as a meat hash to be served 
on toast. 
m, * n ^ When so good a dish as this can be 

Meat Croquettes. ° . . 

made out of soup meat, it is worth a 
little trouble. 

Ingredients. 2 cups of the chopped beef, 1 table- 
spoon butter, ,1 tablespoon flour, 1 egg, £ a lemon or 
1 tablespoon vinegar, a few gratings of nutmeg and 
i cup of stock or milk. 
5 



50 Veal 

Cook the flour in the butter and add the stock or 
milk and seasoning, then the beef, and cook, stirring 
all the time till the mass cleaves from the side of the 
kettle. Let it get cold, then make into little egg 
shaped balls, let them dry a little, roll in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

To vary — add £ as much chopped salt or fresh pork 
as you have meat. 

VEAL. 

This meat takes other flavors well and is used by 
cooks for all manner of fancy dishes. It is lacking 
in fat and for that reason easily dries in cooking; an 
addition of pork is always an advantage to the taste. 
It must be always well cooked, never rare. 

This may be a piece cut from loin, 

Roast Veal. , i ij ., . 

breast or shoulder, or a rib piece. 
Roast like beef (see page 35), allowing twice as long, 
or 1^-2 hours, for any piece under 4 lbs. 
Broiled veal Outlets, chops and steaks are broiled 

chops. like beef, but slower and twice as long 

and must be buttered and floured to prevent drying. 
Should be served with a tomato or onion sauce. 
Cook like beef stew, see page 46. 

Veal Stew. T , , . , . ,, * & 

It may be varied in the same way, 

and is generally more highly seasoned. Especially 
good as pot-pie. Salt pork should be added to it. 
Liver, Sweet- Veal liver, sweetbreads and heart are 
Heart. all tender and excellent, but high priced, 

especially the sweetbreads. Liver and heart are pre- 
pared like the same parts in beef (see page 47), but the 
heart cooks tender in two hours. This latter is an ex- 



Mutton and Lamb. 5J 

cellent dish, do not soak it — stuff with well seasoned 
bread crumbs and bake, basting well. 

MUTTON" AND LAMB. 

Mutton and The quality of mutton is so varying 

Lamb. that when cooked the dish is often a dis- 

appointment. The influence of long keeping or 
" hanging" upon it is even more beneficial than upon 
beef. 

Fat of Mutton. Some cooks trim 

Mutton Fat. i-. j. . . - 

away every bit of fat from mutton. It 
is perfectly wholesome, but sometimes gets a taste 
from coming in contact with the hide or hair of the 
animal; hence the prejudice. Scrape the outside of 
the meat well, pulling off the dried skin and cutting 
away the dark ends. 

Unlike beef, other pieces besides the 

PIgcgs to rofist 

rib are good for roasting; the loin and 
haunch are most economical, the shoulder next, the 
leg next. Roast like beef, see page 35. 

Unless the meat is first class, do not roast, but boil 
it. The leg is of tenest used for this purpose. 

Simmer about 12 minutes to the 
pound ; that is the rule, but very fre- 
quently the meat when it comes on the table, will 
be tough, owing entirely to the difference in the qual- 
ity of the meat. Such meat must be boiled twice as 
long, or is better cooked in a stew. 

The chop is oftenest broiled and is 
a famous dish. Cut f in. thick, and 
broil rare like beef. 

Chops and cutlets are excellent fried in fat. See 
page 40. 



52 Pork. 

Mutton stew. This is the most economical and per- 

haps the most satisfactory of all mutton dishes. The 
inferior parts, as the neck, are as good as any for this 
purpose. Proceed exactly as with beef stew. 
A good stew is made from sheep's kidneys. 

These may be mentioned because 

Sheep tongues. , . , , , n 

sometimes thrown away or sold very 
cheap. Clean well, and simmer 1£ hours, with a 
little pork and onion. Add to the gravy 1 table- 
spoon of vinegar. 

All these recipes for mutton apply to the cooking 
of lamb ; remembering however, that lamb, like veal, 
must be thoroughly cooked. 

POKE. 

Pork does not need to be kept in order to be ten- 
der, that is one of its great recommendations to the 
housekeeper. It is also easily cooked and we may 
lay aside some of the precautions we use regarding 
beef: The lean of fresh pork however, is apt to dry 
in cooking. 

The leg, the loin and the chine are 

Roasting pieces. n . . . n j i • i 

good roasting pieces as well as the rib. 
Pork is so rich in flavor that it seasons finely a bread 
crumb dressing, to which add a little sage and vin- 
egar or chopped pickles. Bake separately, and lay 
around it when served. Or better, though more 
trouble, make holes in the roast and force the stuff- 
ing in. 

Put directly into a hot oven in a pan containing 
some hot fat, and baste very frequently till done. 
Allow at least 20 minutes to the pound. 



Ham. 53 

steaks and chops. Steaks and chops are broiled, but the 
surface must be kept well moistened with butter or 
beef fat, or they will be dry and tasteless. 

Fresh pork is seldom boiled and it is 
too fat for a stew, though the lean may 
be selected and cooked like beef stew. It makes also 
an excellent potpie, or meat pie. See page 46. 

Pig's liver is good cooked like beef's 
liver, and is cheaper. See page 47. 
The cooking of this is very simple. 

Pork Sausage. -^ . . . . J r , 

.bry brown m a frying pan on the 
stove, or better, set the pan in a hot oven, you will 
then avoid the sputtering of the fat. 

HAM, SALT PORK AND BACON". 

Ham may be cooked in any way in which fresh 
pork is cooked. It may be cut in ■£ in. slices, or 
thinner, and broiled or fried lightly in a pan. If 
long cooked it becomes tough and dry. If too salt 
for this, it may be soaked a half hour in warm 
water. 

A large piece of ham is best boiled. If very salt, 
soak it in cold water for 24 hours, then put into 
cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and simmer half 
a day if the ham is of good size. A ham may also be 
baked. 

Dishes from cold So highly flavored a meat can be 
ham. used in numberless ways, especially 

combined with vegetables and bread. 

Chop 4- lb. fine, season with mus- 

Sandwiches. , -, -, -. . T i 

tard, pepper and 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 



54 Salt Pork and Bacon. 

Ham cakes. Take 1 cup finely chopped boiled 

ham, 2 cups of breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, pepper and salt, 
and enough milk to make quite moist. 

To use. 1st. Fry on a griddle in small spoonfuls, 
and turn as pancakes. 

2d. Use mashed potatoes instead of breadcrumbs, 
and fry as above. 

3d. Take either of the above mix- 

Croquettes. . . 

tures, using, however, little or no milk, 
make into little balls and after rolling in egg and bread- 
crumbs, fry in boiling fat. 

4th. With eggs. Put either of these 
mixtures into a baking dish; smooth the 
surface and make little hollows in it with the bowl of 
a spoon. Put in the oven till hot, then break an egg 
into each depression, and return to the oven till the 
eggs are set. 

Broiled salt Pork After slicing thin, freshen salt pork 
and Bacon Dv laying in cold water over night or -j- 
hour in warm water. Broil till transparent and a 
delicate brown in color. Broil bacon without freshen- 
ing. 

Less delicate than broiled, but much 

more economical, because saving the 

fat. Fry only till transparent. Salt pork must be 

first freshened. To make milk gravy of the fat, see 

"meat and vegetable sauces," page 73. 

Both salt pork and bacon are boiled with vegeta- 
bles. 

Bacon or Pork and Cabbage. This is a favorite 
mixture, and if the cabbage is only boiled half an 
hour and not in the same pot with the pork, it is not 



Fresh Fish. 55 

an indigestible dish. Put the pork into cold water, 
bring slowly to a boil and simmer from -J- to 2 hours, 
according to size of piece. 

Cook 1 qt. dried peas according to 

Pork and Peas. ,. ,. - *-#«» t* -i 

directions for pea soup, page 117. Boil 
pork with the peas during the last hour, or after 
parboiling, bake like pork and beans. 

Cook 1 qt. beans according to soup 

Pork and Beans. . „ ., u . n 

recipe, page 117. Parboil 1 lb. salt side 
pork, score the skin in squares, half bury in the beans 
and bake 2 hours, or till a nice brown. 
Pork and Pota- Slice a dozen potatoes thin, also £ lb. 
toes- fat salt pork, put into a pudding dish 

in alternate layers, seasoning with salt and pepper 
(only a little of the former). Bake, covered, \ hour, 
uncover and brown. 

Fruits seasoned with meat juices and 

Pork and Apples. , , . , . .,, 

fats, instead of with sugar, are not 
enough known among us. 

Slice sour apples round in slices \ in. thick with- 
out peeling, and fry with strips of pork or bacon. 
Serve together. 

FRESH FISH. 

The varieties of fresh fish are numberless, and to 
cook and serve them in perfection requires careful 
study from the cook. The subject must here be 
treated very briefly. 

Fresh fish may be cooked in any of the ways appli- 
cable to meat ; the length of time being much shorter, 
and care being required on account of the delicacy of 
the fibre. This makes broiling somewhat difficult. 



56 Salt Fish. 

Small fish are perhaps best egged and bread crumbed 
and fried m hot fat. 

This dish deserves especial mention 

Fish Chowder. , „ . . , , , n 

because of its cheapness and good fla- 
vor. It may be made of any fresh fish. 

Fill a pudding dish with the fish cut in pieces, 
seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and bits 
of suet or fat pork ; put over it a potato crust as for 
meat pie ( see page 46 ), or a soda biscuit crust, and 
bake. Bread crumbs or sliced potatoes may be mixed. 
with the fish, and more seasoning used. 

Fresh fish can also be made into 
soups, and the cheaper kinds should be 
more used for this purpose. 

Cook 1 tablespoon of flour in 1 table- 

Codfish Soup. a jj -.1 -n 

spoon of butter. Add 1| qts. milk, or 
milk and water, and when it boils stir in 1 teacup of 
cold boiled codfish that has been freed from skin and 
bones and then chopped fine or rubbed through a 
sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Bullhead or cat- An excellent soup can be made of 

fish soup. this cheap fish. 

Clean and cut up 2 or 3 lbs. and boil an hour in 2 
qts. water with an onion and a piece of celery or any 
herbs (it must be well seasoned). Then add 1 cup 
of milk and a piece of butter or beef fat, or a piece 
of salt pork cut in bits may be boiled with the fish. 

SALT FISH. 
Salt Cod. This j s one of the cheap foodg that 

seems to be thoroughly appreciated among us, and 
good ways of cooking it are generally understood. 



Fowls. 57 

It must be freshened by laying it in water over 
night ; put into cold water and bring gradually to a 
boil; set the kettle back where it will keep hot for 
half an hour, separate the flakes and serve with a 
milk sauce. 

This favorite dish is prepared by 

adding to codfish, boiled as above and 

finely shredded, a like quantity of mashed potato. 

Make into balls and fry on a griddle or in boiling fat. 

Any other fish can be used in the same way. 

FOWLS. 

The flesh of fowls cannot rank among cheap foods, 
but in any economical family the Sunday dinner may 
often be a fricassee made of a fowl no longer young. 
Unless very ancient, the flavor of such a fowl will be 
richer than that of a chicken ; we have but to cook 
it till it is tender. 

Old Fowl Fric- Cut into joints, put into cold water 
asseed an d bring slowly to a simmering heat ; 

on no account let it boil, — keep it as nearly as pos- 
sible at 170° for 3 or 4 hours, or till it is very tender. 
At the end of 2 hours, add a sliced onion and salt 
and thicken the gravy. 

None but the wealthy should use 

Chicken Soup. , . , „ -, , » , -, ■, 

chickens ior soup, but from the bones 
left of baked or fricasseed chicken a good and eco- 
nomical soup can be made. Boil an hour or two, 
take out the bones, thicken a little and serve with 
bread dice fried in butter. 

An excellent soup can be made of the 

giblets, that is, heart, liver and neck of 
chicken, and other fowls, which in city markets are 



58 Eggs. 

sold separately and very cheap. Cut in small pieces 
and boil 2 hours with onion and herbs, then add a 
little butter and thickening, salt and pepper. 

EGGS. 

The importance of eggs is to be estimated from 
various points of view; their food value is great, 
their digestibility when fresh is almost perfect, and 
they can be cooked in so many ways and are a neces- 
sary ingredient of so many dishes, that the cook could 
ill spare them. Indeed, in all countries, their con- 
sumption seems to be limited only by their price. 

After the first twenty-four hours an 
egg steadily deteriorates. Physicians 
say, "never give to an invalid an egg that is more 
than two or three days old." 

There are methods in use for preserving eggs fresh, 
on the principle of excluding air by sealing up the 
pores of the shell, but none of them are without risk 
and they cannot be recommended to one who must 
economize closely. It is better to go without eggs as 
nearly as possible in winter. 

Eggs are as digestible raw as cooked, 

and one easily comes to like the taste of 

a fresh raw egg beaten to a foam and mixed with a 

little milk or water and sugar flavored with a little 

nutmeg or jelly. 

To soft boil an egg its temperature 

Soft Boiled Eggs. s]ionld not be raiged aboye 170O> The 

white will then be a jelly-like, digestible substance, 
but if exposed to a higher temperature, the white 
becomes horny while the yolk remains uncooked or 



Egg Dishes. 59 

becomes pasty. There are two methods of boiling an 
egg properly, which may be adopted according to 
convenience. 

1st. Allow 1 qt. of boiling water to 4 eggs. Use a 
pail or jar ( heated before the water is put in ) and 
wrap around with a flannel cloth. The eggs will be 
done in 6 minutes, but are not harmed by ten. 

2d. Put the eggs into cold water and bring slowly 
to a boil. They are done when the water begins to 
boil. 

To boil an egg hard, it is no more 

Hard Boiled Eggs. , ., / , ■ -, a 

necessary to expose it to a high degree 
of heat than in the case of the soft boiled ; the heat 
must simply be much longer continued, 20 minutes 
to a half hour. The egg will then be solid but not 
horny as when cooked in boiling water. 

A great many attractive dishes can be made of cold 
boiled eggs. 

scrambled, These are but different modes of cook- 

aud baked eggs. ' ing eggs soft or solid. The taste will 
be more delicate and they will be more digestible if 
in these cases also only the low degree of heat above 
mentioned be applied — more time being given them 
than is usually allowed. 

EGG DISHES. 

These dishes under many names and in many forms 
are of next importance after meats, composed, as they 
generally are, of eggs and vegetables or some prepara- 
tion of the grains, while numberless additions and fla- 
vors are used to give variety and make the dish tempt- 
ing to the eye and palate. Eggs so prepared have their 
full nutritive value; not so in rich puddings and cakes, 



60 Egg Dishes. 

where they are mixed with more sugar and fat than 
the system can take up in any quantity. 

The following are a few recipes that have not been 
included under other heads. Many others will be 
found under the Cooking of the Grains. 

1 cup of hard bread partly softened in 

Bread omelet. , , .,, . , , , 

hot water and milk, or in cold water 
(in which case press in a cloth and crumble), add ^ of a 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 egg, 
salt and pepper. Heat in the frying pan or square 
baking pan, some bits of suet or beef fat, and pour 
in the omelet. Cover and bake five minutes, then 
uncover and brown. Or it may be cooked slowly on 
top of the stove. Cut in pieces and serve around the 
meat or with a gravy. 

Bread, fresh or stale, is cut in loner 

Egged bread. , . . .,, 

strips, or in squares or rounds with a 
cake cutter. Let them soak till soft but not broken, 
in 1 pt. of salted milk into which two eggs have been 
beaten. Bake a nice brown or fry on a griddle in 
half suet and half butter. (May be made with one 

Fry a small onion, sliced, in a tea- 
spoonful, of butter or fat; fill the pan 
with 2 cups of cold sliced potatoes, salt and pepper 
them, and pour over them 2 beaten eggs. Bake slowly 
till it is just solid and turn out carefully on a plat- 
ter. Or, 1 cup potatoes and 1 cup bread crumbs 
may be used. 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoons 

Rice omelet. .,, ^ , . u »«-■ -, 

milk, 1 egg, \ teaspoon salt. Mix and 
pour into a pan in which a tablespoon of butter has 



Cheese Dishes. 61 

been heated. Fry and double over when done. Or, 
it may be baked like potato omelet. 

1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 

Flour omelet. ^.^ Qf ^ ^ ^ beaten white q£ 

the egg last. 

This is the "Yorkshire Pudding" which is cooked 
in the pan over which beef is roasting; it is cut in 
squares and served around the meat. It may also be 
baked in a buttered pan without meat. 

3 eggs, 1 cup flour (scant), 1 table- 
Tomato omelet. g p 0(m £ ne ] ier k Sj sa it an d cayenne pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon sugar, juice of 2 large tomatoes and 
1 cup warm milk. Bake under roasting meat, or alone 
in a buttered pan. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Almost any cheese will give a good result in these 
dishes. Crumbly cream cheese is richer in taste and 
has also been shown to be more quickly digested. 
Skim cheeses are as nutritious except in fat, and in 
some dishes, as in "Fondamin" give a better result. 
Grate old cheeses, chop new and soft ones. 

Grate old cheese and serve with bread 

Grated cheese. ^ butter> j t ig algQ a good addition to 
mashed potato, to flour porridges, to oatmeal and 
and wheat flour porridges, to rice, sago, tapioca and 
indeed to any starchy foods; it should be stirred 
in while these are quite hot. Its use with macaroni 
is given elsewhere. 

cooked cheese The "basis of these dishes is toasted 

with bread, bread (white or graham) arranged on a 

platter, and enough salted water poured on to soften it. 



62 Cheese. Dishes. 

1. Grate enough old cheese to cover the toast pre- 
pared as above. Set in the oven to melt, and put 
the slices together as sandwiches. This is the simplest 
form of " Welsh Rarebit.' 

2. i lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter and 1 cup milk. 
Stir till smooth over a gentle fire or in a water bath 
and spread over the toast. 

3. £ lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 egg yolks, 
•J teaspoon mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Stir 
to smooth paste, spread on the toast and set in a hot 
oven for 4 minutes. 

4. To each person allow 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
grated cheese, £ teaspoon butter or 1 tablespoon milk, 
a little salt and pepper (cayenne best). Cook like cus- 
tard in a pail set in a kettle of hot water, stirring 
till smooth, it may then be used on toast or poured 
out on a platter. It may also be steamed 5 minutes 
in little cups, or baked very slowly for 10 minutes. 

5. Slices of bread lightly buttered, 3 eggs, 1| cups 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese. Soak the 
bread in the milk and egg till soft but not broken. 
Lay the pieces in a pan, cover with the cheese and 
bake or steam. 

Fondamin or This is a famous foreign dish, and 

Fondue. although it may seem to have a good 

many ingredients, it is really not much trouble to 
make. 

i lb. of grated cheese (skim better than cream) add 
to 1 gill of milk, in which is as much bicarbonate of 
potash as will lie on a three cent piece, \ teaspoon 
mustard, \ saltspoon white pepper, a few grains of cay- 
enne, 1 oz. butter, a grating of nutmeg and 2 table- 



Milk. 63 

spoons baked flour. Heat carefully till the cheese is 
dissolved. Add 3 beaten eggs and stir till smooth. 
This mixture should be baked separately for each per- 
son in patty pans or paper cases and eaten imme- 
diately. All cheese dishes should be served very hot. 

MILK. 

Milk is sometimes called the one perfect food, con- 
taining all the constituents in their right proportions. 
This is true only for the requirements of a baby, but 
it remains for any age a valuable food when rightly 
supplemented. 

Milk contains on the average 3.31$ proteids, 3.66$ 
fat, 4.9$ carbohydrates, 87.41$ water, and .70$ salts. 

The housewife, if she wishes to use milk with 
economy, will not in cooking use it as such, but 
with due regard to the different values of the cream 
and the skim parts. In cities skim milk is sold for 
about one-half the price of full milk, and is well 
worth it if pure, but it is too often mixed with water. 
As soon as milk comes into the house 
it should be boiled, as it is a notorious 
carrier of disease germs which only in this way can 
be killed. Use an earthenware pitcher and let the 
milk remain standing in the same after cooking. 
The next day remove the cream for the morning's 
coffee, and use the skim part during the day for cook- 
ing, with or without the addition of a little butter. 
To keep milk sweet in warm weather 
is a serious question to the housekeeper 
who has no cellar or refrigerator. It is of first im- 
portance that the vessels used to contain it should be 



64 Milk. 

scrupulously clean. Boiling, as above mentioned, 
and cooling it rapidly afterwards, will keep it sweet 
for 24 hours, unless the weather is very warm, and 
the time may be further extended by keeping the 
milk pitcher set in a dish of cold water. A quarter 
of a teaspoonful of baking soda to a quart of milk, 
added while it is still sweet, may be used in case of 
necessity but this is not to be commended for com- 
mon use. 

A method that the writer has em- 

Canning Milk. . . . 

ployed is this : simply canning the 
milk as one would can fruit. Fill glass jars and screw 
down the lids, then place them in a steamer over cold 
water ; heat the water gradually and steam the jars 
for an hour, then tighten the tops. I have never 
kept milk so treated for more than a week, but see 
no reason why it should not keep much longer. 

However, if you find yourself with 

sour milk on your hands, do not throw 
it away, it has many uses. Buttermilk is also very 
valuable to the housewife ; it can be kept a long time 
in good condition for mixing doughs by covering 
with water, which must, however, be often changed 
for fresh. 

USES FOR SOUR MILK AN"D BUTTERMILK. 
Bonny Clabber. p u £ s ^[ m m ilk into a glass dish or 

into tea cups and set away until it becomes solid. 
Then eat with sugar and powdered cinnamon sprink- 
led over it. 

Set thick sour milk where it will 

age eese. ^ ea £ gradually till the curd separates, 

then pour into a bag and let it drip till dry. Salt 

well, and add a little cream or milk and melted butter. 



Sour Milk and Buttermilk. 65 

1st. As a drink. For this it should 

Buttermilk. , „ , 

be very fresh. 
2d. Buttermilk soup. (Seepage 123.) 

Both buttermilk and sour milk can 

Uses for both. . , 

be used 

1st. In making soda biscuit dough (see page 102.) 

2d. In pancakes of all kinds (see page 103.) 

3d. In corn bread (see page 103.) 

4th. In some kinds of cake, as in gingerbread, 
cookies and doughnuts, where they are by many cooks 
preferred to sweet milk; and in almost any kind of cake 
sour milk may be substituted for sweet, remembering 
always to use only half the quantity of cream of tartar 
called for in the recipe. 
6 



FATS A1STD OILS. 



The third food principle, Fats, stands between the 
two great nutrients, Proteids on the one hand and 
Carbohydrates on the other, and we find that we can 
indulge in considerable latitude as to its use. When 
we wish to get our food in a more condensed form, 
we can use fats freely in connection with proteids 
and lessen the amount of carbohydrates. In army 
dietaries the amount of fat is largely increased for 
marching, and for great exertion the quantity be- 
comes three times that allowed in garrison life. For 
instance, the daily rations served out to the German 
soldiers in France during the month of August, 1870, 

contained 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

Army Dietary. ^ gmg _ m gmg _ g gi ^ 

It was represented by 1 lb. 10 oz. of bread, about 
1^ lbs. of meat, and over -J lb. of bacon besides an 
allowance of coffee, tobacco and wine or beer. Prof. 
Kanke has called this an admirable diet for fighting 
men. In garrison life these soldiers would have re- 
ceived only 56 grams of fat, and 120 grams of pro- 
teids while the carbohydrates would have been in- 
creased to 500 grams or more. 

On the other hand, fat when coupled with enough 
carbohydrate food can replace some of the proteid, 
and often does so in the food of hardy and econom- 

66 



Importance of Fats. 67 

Diet of Bavarian ical people. The Bavarian woodchop- 
woodchopper. p G r is enabled by his splendid digestion 
to arrange his diet in the following way : he takes 
little proteid from the animal kingdom, but in order 
to get enough of it from vegetable products, he must, 
as we know, take in an immense quantity of the 
starch associated with it, and to this he adds a great 
quantity of fat. Von Liebig says that such a man 
takes on the average 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

112 gms. 309 gms. 691 gms. 

We see therefore that we can have a sliding scale 
for fat; that while we should not go below 2 oz. a day, 
we may, in case we lower one or both of the other 
two great constituents, go up to 8 or 9 oz. 
importance of People belonging to the well-to-do 
Fat not realized, classes, unless they have given special 
study to the subject, seldom realize the importance 
of fat in our economy. Fat means to then! fat meat, 
suet, lard and the like, and the much eating of these 
is considered proof of a gross appetite; they do not 
consider how much fat they take in eggs, in milk, in 
grains like oatmeal and maize, in the seasoning of 
their varied dishes, and in their well-fattened meats, 
where, as in an average piece from a very fat mutton, 
they eat twice as much fat as proteid without knowing 
it. 

Indeed, a well fed man of the upper classes may 
have more fat in his daily diet than has the freshly 
arrived Mechlenburg laborer who spreads a quarter 
inch layer of lard on his bread. The latter cannot 
take his fat in unsuspected forms; he craves this 



68 Substitutes for Butter. 

principle with his plain vegetable diet, and must take 
it as he can get it. 

Now let us understand that where economy is to be 
considered, this question of fat does not take care of 
itself as it does for the rich man. The economical 
housewife should always keep in mind that she must 
furnish her family enough fat, and furnish it cheaply. 
Substitutes for Butter is a dear fat ; count out the 
Butter. water in it and see what it costs you. 
We must economize in butter in as many ways as 
possible. "We must eat more fat meat, first, that 
which is ingrained with the lean where it takes the 
place of water, as we have seen under " Proteids," 
costing us practically nothing; when we eat our 
vegetables seasoned with such a piece of meat, we 
find them sufficiently seasoned. We must also eat 
more of fat meat which we recognize as such, taking 
pains to cook it so that it will be palatable; the 
crisp, brown outside of a roast is always welcome, but 
the fat of boiled beef or mutton will also be relished 
if served very hot. An excellent selection in low- 
priced beef, is the fat middle rib ; the lean part is 
very tender and juicy when cooked in water at a low 
temperature for two or three hours ( or in Heat Saver, 
see page 44, for three or four hours ) and the fat, if 
served hot, any but a pampered taste will relish. 
Too much cannot be said in praise of pork as furnish- 
ing a good tasting and cheap fat ; it can be cooked in 
many ways and used to flavor vegetables, etc. 
Digestibility of It is consoling to the economist to 
Fat. know that little of this food prin- 

ciple will be wasted in the body. Fat is more com- 



Artificial Butter. 69 

pletely absorbed, according to the testimony of the 
experimenters, than any other kind of food, even 
meat. 

We want to say a few words as to the character of 
different animal fats, and then we are done with this 
subject. 

All the fats consumed by us, without exception, are 
composed of three bodies called neutral fats, mixed 
together in varying proportions. These three bodies 
are "olein," "palmatin" (margarin), and "stearin," 
and the chief difference between them is that they 
melt at different temperatures; the more olein a 
fat has, the more easily it melts, and the less it has, 
the more it is like tallow. In vegetable oils, we find 
in addition to these, small quantities of what are 
called "fatty acids," and in butter we have beside the 
three common fats, a small per cent of four scarcer 
ones. 

Practically therefore, all fats are 

Fats compared. , . , , , , , , . , , 

alike, and when absorbed they do 
the same work in the body, their varying flavors 
and their colors having nothing to do with this. 

However, their flavor, their appearance and the 
ease with which they melt in the mouth and in the 
digestive tract have much to do with our estimation 
of them as foods. Mutton fat will do our body the 
same service as butter, but because of the relatively 
small amount of olein it contains, we have difficulty 
in swallowing it. 

As to the comparative digestibility of these fats, it 
is generally admitted that those which melt at a low 
temperature, like butter and vegetable oils, are most 



70 Artificial Butter. 

readily taken up by the system; it is thought that 
we could digest beeswax if it would melt in the 
stomach. Still, although butter stands in common 
estimation as the most digestible, as it is the most 
palatable of the fats, the stomach finds no trouble in 
disposing of reasonable amounts of any fat used in 
the household. 

The fact that all fats are so similar 

Artificial Butter. . ... , . , . . „ , . 

in composition, and that, it once di- 
gested, they will do the same service in the body, 
first led scientists to try to make out of the cheaper 
fats a substitute for butter. It was Napoleon III 
who set the chemist Mege-Mourier at work to dis- 
cover an artificial butter for use in the army. This 
chemist added butter color and flavors made in the 
laboratory, to olein and margarin extracted from beef 
suet, and mixed with this a little real butter, and so 
successful was the result, that the making of artifi- 
cial butter has become a great industry. Now cer- 
tainly no one objects to artificial butter on the ground 
that it is made of animal fats, for he eats these every 
day on his table ; he objects because he has doubts as 
to the cleanliness or the healthfulness of its method 
of manufacture. 

Therefore since the substitution, to some extent, 
of animal fats for butter is from an economic stand- 
point so desirable, if we cannot bring ourselves to 
use oleomargarine we must do the best we can in 
these kitchen laboratories of ours to make other fats 
than butter acceptable to the taste. 



Uses of Fats. 71 

USES OF FATS. 

Beef suet, its Beef suet has many uses. It should be 
bought perfectly fresh, that surround- 
ing the kidneys being chosen as of the best quality. 
Chopped fine, it is used in suet puddings, and may 
be employed to enrich other puddings made of skim 
milk, as a rice pudding; it combines well with 
bread crumbs in any hot dish, in bread puddings, 
bread stuffing, bread omelet and soup balls. In all 
cases it must be chopped fine and cooked sufficiently 
to fully incorporate it with the other materials. 
Suet may also be used in many flour dishes instead 
of butter, if they are only cooked long enough and 
eaten warm, also in all cake where molasses and 
spices or any strong flavor is used. 

Every bit of marrow in bones should 

Marrow 

be scraped out and carefully used. Its 
taste is more delicate than that of suet, and it can be 
substituted for butter even in fine cake. 

Whatever butter you use in cooking 

Butter tried out. , ,,, 77-1,1 n • i 1 

should be cooked butter which may be 
prepared when butter is cheap and put away for 
winter use. So prepared it will keep as long as lard. 
A second quality of butter may be used for this, or 
that which is beginning to be rancid; if already so, 
add i teaspoon soda to each pound, but such butter 
when tried out will not keep as long as that made 
from sweet butter. In trying out butter great 
care must be taken not to burn it. Put it in a 
large iron kettle and cook it down very slowly until 
you no longer hear the sound of boiling ; it will then 
begin to froth and rise and this is a sure sign that 



72 Preparation of Fats for Cooking. 

the process is completed. Set the kettle back to cool 
a few moments, then skim and pour off the butter 
from the dregs into jars. Keep in a cool place and 
closely covered. In any recipe use £ less than of fresh 
butter. 

This should be done with even more 
care, to avoid the tallowy flavor. Exact 
directions are given in " Cooking Methods," page 41. 
The "scraps" are often relished by children. 

This beef fat (which we decline to call tallow) 
should be put away in cakes in a jar closely covered. 
To use it, scrape it fine, sprinkling a 
little flour in it to keep it light. So 
prepared it may be used in any of the ways mentioned 
under "suet," and to this list still others may be 
added, since it does not need, as does suet, long cook- 
ing in order to mix it well with the other ingredients 
of the dish. It can be used successfully in warm 
breads of all kinds, and in all but the nicest cakes 
if mixed with % butter. 

Much of the lard now furnished is so 
poor, that unless one pays a high price 
to a well known dealer, it is better for each house- 
keeper to buy the leaf lard and try it out herself. 

Cut fine and cook all the water out, taking care not 
to burn. 

The "scraps" are even better than those left from 
suet and should by no means be thrown away. 

SAUCES FOE MEAT A^D VEGETABLES. 

The economical and busy housewife says she has no 
time nor money for sauces, but the fact is she cannot 
afford to do without them. 



Sauces. 73 

All vegetables must have some fat to season them 
and to use butter in every case is extravagant and 
gives no variety, while a cheaper fat if made into a 
sauce with flour and water, can be flavored in a dozen 
ways. 

DRAWK BUTTER SAUCES. 

Drawn butter, which is the foundation of most of 
the sauces is thus made. 

piain A heaping tablespoon of butter or beef 

fat is put into a saucepan; when it boils, 
1 heaping tablespoon flour is added and stirred as it 
cooks. To this add gradually 1 pt. of water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and i teaspoon of pepper. If you wish to 
unite economy and good flavor use i tablespoon of 
beef fat in making the sauce, and add -J tablespoon 
butter, cut in little pieces, just before serving. 

Milk sauce is the same, made with milk instead of 
water. 

In brown sauce, the fat and flour are stirred till 
they brown, then make as above. 

Any number of sauces can be made from these 
three by adding different flavors; chopped pickles and 
a tablespoon vinegar are added to No. 1 when it is to 
be used on fish; or mustard for mustard sauce. 

The addition of eggs raw or cooked makes another 
variety. 

Milk gravies. W * th the help ° f milk We Can make 

a gravy as in "milk sauce," with beef 
or pork fat, seasoning with salt and pepper and per- 
haps some powdered herb. 

Children like all these gravies, if nicely made and 
flavored, to eat on bread as well as on vegetables. 



74 Sauces. 

MEAT SAUCES. 

A few cheap sauces for meats alone deserve special 

mention. 

2 tablespoons green mint or spear mint 

Mint sauce. , j -1 x i i i 

chopped, 1 tablespoon sugar, % cup 
vinegar. Mix and let stand an hour or two. 

Boil 1 pt. fresh or canned tomatoes 

with a little onion, salt, and herb flavor- 
ing until quite thick, then strain and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of flour cooked in a teaspoonful of butter. 

Any sour fruit, as apples or plums, 

Fruit sauce. , J n j. I -at! 

makes an excellent sauce to eat with 

meat. Apple sauce goes especially well with pork. 
Horseradish Add to drawn butter or any meat 

sauce. gravy i cup grated horseradish. Sim- 

mer a few minutes. 



CAEBOHYDEATE - CONTAINING 
FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We are now to furnish*for the body the third great 
food principle, the carbohydrates. 'These we mean 
when we speak of the starches and sugars, and with 
unimportant exceptions, they are furnished by the 
vegetable world only. 

As we have seen, that troublesome 
body, cellulose, plays here a large role. 
It is the skeleton, so to speak, of plants, built by them 
out of sugar and starch; the chemist finds no diffi- 
culty in his laboratory in turning it back into dextrin 
and sugar, and our stomachs too can digest a large part 
of the cellulose of very young and tender plants, — 
from 47$ to 62$ it has been found, of young lettuce, 
celery, cabbage and carrots, — but in older plants, the 
cellulose proper becomes all intergrown and encrusted 
with substances of a woody and mineral nature, from 
which even the chemist separates it with the greatest 
difficulty, while our digestive juices are entirely un- 
equal to the task. Therefore it is that the whole art 
of the cook is needed in treating this substance; she 
must soften it, she must break it up, and in many 
cases separate it as completely as possible from the 
sugars, starches and proteids which it hinders us from 
appropriating to our use. 

75 



76 Cellulose. 

In some cases, as in oatmeal and gra- 
ham flour, we leave the cellulose because 
of its mechanical action on the bowels. To be sure, 
this is a wasteful process, for the cellulose carries with 
it when it leaves the body considerable undigested 
food, but better this waste than to give the muscles 
of our intestines so little work to do that they be- 
come unable to digest any but fine, condensed foods. 

As a rule, however, we "must think of cellulose 
not as a food at all, but as a tough, foreign body 
which we must reckon with before we can utilize the 
proteid and starch particles of many important vege- 
table foods. 

Amount of The carbohydrates, especially the 

Carbohydrate, starches, are the cheapest of the food 
constituents and therefore most apt to be in excess, 
especially in the food of the poor. According to 
estimates already given, an adult at average hard work 
gets along nicely with 1-J- lbs. of carbohydrate mate- 
rial (meaning, of course, the dry amount of this one 
principle), though fortunately, as mentioned under 
"Fats," it is found that some of this large amount 
can be exchanged for fat, if the body, for any reason 
can better use the latter. Brainworkers and the 
richer classes the world over take less of carbohy- 
drates, at least in their starch form, and more pro- 
teids and fats. 

Inasmuch as we get these carbohydrates from the 
vegetable kingdom, and because the housewife must 
furnish them combined with other principles as in 
bread and other things made of flour, and in various 
dishes in which vegetables are combined with meat, 



Digestibility of Vegetable Foods. 77 

milk, eggs, etc., we will cease speaking of carbohy- 
drates as such, and will give a few hints as to how to 
prepare vegetable foods so that we can get the most 
out of them, bearing in mind, however, what has been 
said about not following out this principle to the ex- 
tent of weakening the bowels. 
To what extent This leads us, first, to examine the 

digested. general digestibility of the whole class 

of vegetable foods; meaning by this, not the rapid- 
ity nor the ease, but the extent to which the nutritive 
principle is yielded up to us. It has been found that, 
as usually prepared, vegetable foods give up to us 
from \ to -J less of their nutrients than do animal 
foods, and especially is this true of those that are rich 
in proteids. To illustrate: a workman eats as part 
of his dinner a dish of boiled beans, but though he 
rightly considers that he has been eating a nourishing 
dish, he has really absorbed only 60$ of the nitrogen- 
ous substances contained in it, the other 40$ passing 
from him unused because of its intimate connection 
with the cellulose; at least this was the case with 
Prof. Strtimpell who records the result of personal 
experiments on the digestibility of beans cooked whole. 
Now this workman digested of the meat part of his 
dinner 97-£$, and this comparison shows how the 
tougher kinds of cellulose interfere with the absorp- 
tion of the food matters which they enclose. 

The starch part of vegetable food we seem to get 
out much better than the proteid part, even with our 
ordinary methods of cooking; thus out of cooked 
rice we get almost 99$ of the starch, but only 80$ of 
what proteid it contains; flour in the form of noodles 



78 The Shady Side of Vegetable Diet. 

and macaroni yields up 98|$ of its starch and 80$ of 
its albumen, — in the form of bread a little less of each. 
The potato will give us only 75$ of what little pro- 
teid it contains, but as high as 92.5$ of its starch. 
^ . „ . Although the starch-containing foods 

Effect of too & ii- ! i 

much starch are cheap and although they yield up a 
in the diet. good ^ cent of ^ nu t r itive princi- 
ple, they must not be used to excess for the following 
reason. Starch must first be turned into sugar by our 
digestive juices before it can be taken up into the 
blood, and if the stomach is given more at a time 
than it can master, certain fermentations may take 
place, and digestion be influenced. The best author- 
ities say that without doubt the continued and severe 
diarrheas of small children are due to the fermenta- 
tion of starch foods for which their digestive organs 
are not yet ready. 

These fermentations, the irritating action on the 
bowels of too much cellulose, and the loss of a good 
deal of proteid substance connected with it form the 
shady side of a vegetable diet. Even the ox with his 
many stomachs gets out of grass and unchopped hay 
only 60$ of the proteid and 50$ of the fat contained 
in it. 

VEGETABLE PEOTEIDS. 

Even in our part of the world two thirds of the 
proteid food of most people is taken from the vege- 
table kingdom, and in order to choose our food prof- 
itably, we must know where to look for vegetable 
proteids, and how to fit them for eating. Here the 
cereals and the legumes are our friends, the former 
furnishing from 7 to 14$ in their dried state, the lat- 



Grains. 79 

ter giving the astonishing figure of 20 to 24$; or as 
much as meat. 

GRAINS. 

The cereals or grains, though containing much less 
proteid than the legumes, are more valuable to us 
because of their excellent taste, their availability to 
the cook and the readiness with which when ground 
they yield us their nutrients. 

Since the grains are such important foods, a table 
is appended showing the average richness in food 
principles of those in common use among us. We 
find that different analyses of the same grain differ 
greatly from one other, barley for instance, ranging 
from 8 to 18$ in its proteid, and this may account for 
a certain grain being popular in one country and not 
in another. 

In our country we are especially fortunate in the 

cheapness and excellence of at least two of the grains, 

wheat and in- Wheat and Indian Corn. The first 

dian Corn. h as f course much higher food value, 

but the latter is so cheap and can be so easily cooked 

that it is a blessing to the poor. The large per cent 

of both proteids and fat in oats is to be 
Oats 

noted, justifying as it does, the high 

esteem in which they are now held among us. At the 
other extreme is rice, the poorest of the 
grains in both these principles, but its 

almost perfect digestibility renders it very useful. 



80 Analysis of Grains. 

T3 ' (i) p to 

Analysis of -53 | $ t§ 5 £ 

Grains. o &j £3 t3 tf ~ 

% % % fo % 

Fine Wheat Flour 10. 1.0 75.2 13. 0.3 

Rye Flour 11.5 2. 69.5 14. 1.5 

Barley Grits 11. 1.5 71.5 15. 0.5 

Oat Grits 14.5 6.0 6,5. 10. 2.5 

Buckwheat Flour 9.5 2. 72.5 14. 1. 
Corn or Maize 

Flour 10.15 4.80 68.45 14. 2.6 

Rice Grains 8. 1. 76.5 13. 0.5 

SUGARS. 

Most people would class sugar among the luxuries, 
and indeed we are best acquainted with it in those 
combinations with fruit, eggs, butter, and various 
flavoring matters, which, as puddings, pies, cakes, 
custards, etc., make up our dessert list. 

Our first concern, however, is with its 
food value. It gives us the high figure 
of 99$ of the third food principle, — Carbohydrates. 
That is, it must be put in the list with bread and it 
can be used to a certain extent instead of bread and 
other starch foods. Moreover, it is especially fitted 
for a food in cases where nourishment is needed im- 
mediately, as it is digested or absorbed into the sys- 
tem almost as quickly as water and without taxing 
the digestive organs, and perhaps on this account is its 
consumption so great in our country; we live fast, 
and we want our nutriment in a condensed form. 

But on account of its cost and because we are able 






Sugars. 81 

to take only a moderate amount at a time, sugar can- 
not, to any great extent, take the place of the 
starches; we are to value it chiefly for the relish it 

^ , . ^ , gives to other foods. As a flavor, it is 
Its chief value. ° . _. » . 

ot the greatest value, but if we prize 

variety we are certainly accustomed to the taste of 

sugar in too many dishes, as in rice, custards, and 

various egg and bread dishes, which the foreigner 

would sometimes salt instead of sweeten, and eat with 

his meat instead of at the end of the meal. 

We would suggest that when we do use sugar, as in 

a pudding, for instance, that we use less of it than we 

are accustomed to do, for in that case we could eat 

enough of a dish so flavored to make it furnish more 

of the real substance of a meal. 

BEANS, PEAS AND LENTILS. 

Per cent of Pro- Look again at the remarkable per 

teids. j. - , • i • ^ •. . 

cent of proteid given by this class of 
vegetables. Beans and peas, 23$, Lentils, 25$, while 
beef gives on the average only from 17 to 21$. By peo- 
ple who from choice or necessity live principally on 
vegetables, the legumes have always been largely used; 
their consumption is extensive in India, China, and 
in all of Europe. 

To be sure, the quality of the proteid is not the 
same as in meat, — it is less stimulating and palatable, 
and perhaps in other ways inferior, but the proteid 
needs of the body can be answered by it, and that is 
a very important item when the question is one of 
economy. 

. The impression that dried beans and 

peas are "hearty" food, fitted for out- 



82 Peas, Beans and Lentils. 

door workers rather than for less vigorous people or 

those of sedentary habits, seems justified by the fact 

that these vegetables contain an unusually large per 

cent of cellulose of the tougher sort 

CgIIuIosg 

which requires a long continued appli- 
cation of heat to free it from the proteid and starch 
of the vegetable ; indeed, unless it is broken fine or 
ground into flour, cooking, however long continued, 
will be insufficient. We have seen that Prof. Strum- 
pell digested only 40$ of the proteid of beans cooked 
in the ordinary way, but when they were ground to 
flour and baked he digested 91.8$ The fact is, we 

could cook and eat our wheat whole 

Bean Flour. , ., , , 

much more easily than we can our 
beans, and yet bean flour is not in the market, if we 
except the "prepared" sort in small, expensive pack- 
ages. It seems that the best we can do is to cook 
beans well and sieve them; in that way we free them 
from the skins at least. 

The dried and split pea, though as 

valuable as the bean and already freed 
from" the skin, is not as much used among us; it 
should be more employed in soups and as a vegetable. 
Lentils a few years ago were to be found only in 
large cities ; now they are more easily attainable. 
Their food value, as we have seen, is still greater than 
that of beans and peas, but the taste is not as agree- 
able until one becomes accustomed to it. An eco- 
nomist cannot afford to neglect the legume family. 

POTATOES. 

We in our country need not feel as bitter against 



Potatoes. 83 

the potato as do the scientists of Europe, for we are 
not obliged to use it to excess, and considering its cheap- 
ness and availability it is for us a good vegetable and on 
these accounts, though it makes a poor enough show- 
ing as to food value, we must rank it next to the bean 
in importance. It has only 2$ of proteids, no fat and 
only 20. 7$ carbohydrates, and yet since it can be pre- 
pared in so many ways and we never tire of its mild 
flavor, it will doubtless continue to come upon our 
tables more frequently than any other vegetable 
But every day or twice a day, in large amounts, is far 
too often; indeed those who use it to this extent must 
be ignorant of its relatively low food value. The 
quality of the potato is of great importance and none 
but the best should be used. It should be a mealy 
variety and perfectly ripe. 

GARDEN VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables, excepting the pea and bean, are 
not to be valued chiefly for what we can reckon up 
in them of proteids, fats and carbohydrates, for the 
amount is very small. Except in the height of the 
season they must be looked on as luxuries, but we will 
buy them as often as we can afford them. In quan- 
tities sufficient to flavor soups and stews they can 
always be afforded, and in this way should be freely 
used, carrots, celery, parsnips, and tomatoes, for 
example. 

FEUITS. 

Our markets offer us a great variety of fine fruits, 
and many of them are cheap in their season; apples 
in the fall are within the reach of the very poorest. 



84 Fruits. 

Fresh fruits have a large per cent of water, as 
high as 89$ in the orange, and few fruits have less 
than 80$. Their food value is mainly in the form of 
sugar, apples giving us on an average 7.7$, grapes, 
14.3$; of proteids, the amount does not, with the 
single exception of the strawberry, reach 1$; but 
fruits are very useful to us on account of their flavor, 
due to various aromatic bodies, fruit acids and sugar. 
The apple is especially valuable on account of its 
cheapness and fine keeping qualities, and is used in a 
variety of ways by the cook to give a relish to plain 
materials. Although our largest use of them is in 
sweet dishes, they are perhaps quite as valuable used 
without sugar; they may be fried in slices and eaten 
with fat meat, as bacon or sausage, or they may be 
used to stuff a fowl. 

Fruit is not for all people easy of digestion if eaten 
in considerable quantities, and this is partly on ac- 
count of its relatively large per cent of woody fibre, 
and also, especially when not quite ripe, because of 
the acids and pectose contained in them. Huckle- 
berries have 12$ woody fibre, apples only 2$ including 
the seeds and skin. 

The importance of dried fruits as food is not well 
enough understood. Fruit loses in drying a large 
portion of its water, leaving its nutritive parts in 
more condensed form for our use; dried apples are 
very near to bread in the per cent of nutrients they 
offer, and the dried pear may be called the date of Ger- 
many, so general is its use. With us this fruit is too 
expensive, but in parts of Germany the writer has 
seen dried pears commonly exposed for sale by the 



Cooking of Grains. 85 

barrel like beans; they are eaten in great quantities by 
the common people, who seem to digest them and 
dried apples without any trouble, accustomed as their 
stomachs are to a rye bread and vegetable diet. 
These dried fruits are made into a variety of dishes 
with meats, with potatoes and with beans and also 
with noodles and macaroni. 

COOKING OF GRAIN'S. 

The grains may be cooked whole, coarsely ground, 
as grits, and finely ground, as flour. 
Grains cooked All these grains can be cooked whole 
whole. but it is seldom done, because of the 

length of time required. Only rice and barley are 
generally so cooked. 

In cooking rice, the aim should be to 

Rice. To cook. , , , -. . , . , „ , , , 

have the grains distinct irom each other, 
soft, dry and mealy. 

This is the best way. Add to the rice 

three times its bulk of water, salt well, 

put in a covered dish in a steamer and steam J hour. 

Or, the rice may be soaked over night, and it will then 

steam soft in twenty minutes. 

Put the rice into a large quantity of 
boiling water, add one teaspoon salt to 
each cupful of rice; boil fast, stirring occasionally. 
Drain, dry out a little and keep warm by covering 
with a cloth, as is done with potatoes. Save the 
water poured off for soup. 

Its best use is as a vegetable with 

Rice. To use. ^^ ^^ Qf & ^^ and neutral 

character, it can, like bread, be made into an endless 



86 Cooking of Grits. 

number of dishes to be eaten with meats, or into des- 
sert dishes, with sugar, fruits, etc. For rice omelette 
(see page 60), rice pudding (see pages 107 and 110). 

Grated cheese is a good addition to rice, supplying 
its lack of proteids and fat. 

Pearl barley Soak all night and boil soft in salted 

boiled. water. It may also be steamed. Use 

as a thickening for soups, or like rice, as a vegeta- 
ble, or as a breakfast dish with sugar and milk. 

It is excellent mixed with its bulk of 

With prunes. , , , , n 

stewed prunes; — pour over it melted 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. 

GRAINS, COARSELY GROUND, OR GRITS. 

These are better adapted to simjile cookery than 
are fine flours, since to make them eatable it is only 
necessary to cook them soft in water. The grains 
used in this way among us are cracked wheat, farina or 
wheat grits, oatmeal, hominy and corn meal, aDd they 
are all cooked in nearly the same way. 

MUSHES. 

whea*,oatand Time 2-3 hours. This time maybe 
shortened by soaking the grits some 
hours in water. Oatmeal and corn cannot be over- 
cooked. 

Amount of Water. They all, except corn, absorb 
from three to four times their bulk of water; corn, a 
little over twice. 

Salt. One teaspoonful to one cupful of grits. 

Method of cooking. Steaming is best, as there is 
then no danger of burning or of making the mush 



Mushes. 87 

pasty by stirring. Put the grits and four times their 
bulk of water into a double boiler or into a dish and 
set the dish into a steamer, or use a tin pail with 
tight cover, and set in a kettle of water; — any way to 
keep it at boiling heat without burning. 
uses for cold Porridge. Stir any cold cooked mush 
mushes. smooth with half water and half milk 

to the consistency of porridge. Add a little salt and 
boil up. Sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg may be 
added as flavor. Of course porridges can be also 
made of the uncooked grits, they are simply very thin 
mushes. 

Pancakes. 1 cup of cold oatmeal, hominy or corn 
mush, 2 cups flour, \ pint of milk, -J teaspoon salt, 
and 1 egg f 2 teaspoons baking powder or 1 of soda and 
2 of cream of tartar. Or, sour milk may be used with 1 
teaspoon soda, omitting the cream of tartar. These 
mushes will differ a little in thickness, and therefore 
more or less flour may be needed. Bake on griddle. 

Muffins. The same mixture as above, with the 
addition of a little more flour. Bake in muffin rings. 

To Fry. For this, only corn mush and hominy 
are commonly used. When cooking, add a handful 
of wheat flour to the mush to make it stiffer. Pack 
while warm into a square mould and when cold cut in 
slices and fry slowly to a nice brown on a griddle with 
a little fat. Or, the slices may be dipped into beaten 
egg, then into bread crumbs, and fried in boiling fat. 

CORN" FLOUR. 

There is one fine flour that can be treated in the 
same way as the coarsely ground, — that made from 



88 Corn and Graham Flour. 

Indian corn. Perhaps on account of its larger 
per cent of fat and because little of its albumen is 
in the form of gluten, it does not form into a sticky 
paste as does wheat flour, but can be mixed with water 
only and then boiled or baked into digestible and 
good tasting food, and this is one thing that makes 
corn so valuable a grain to people like the negroes of 
the southern states, whose cooking apparatus is of the 
most primitive sort. Corn meal has one peculiarity, — 
it quickly sours and should be kept no longer than a 
week. The kiln-dried meal, however, keeps indefinite- 
ly, and is now largely used, but is not as sweet as the 
freshly ground. The name " meal " seems to be used 
for both the fine and coarsely ground. 

This, whether made from fine or 

Corn mush. , , . , , ,., 

coarsely ground corn, is cooked like 
grits. See page 86. 

Hoe cake or corn 1 quart Indian meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 
pone. Moisten to a dough with boiling water 

or milk; let it stand a few hours till it shows air 
bubbles on the surface, then make into thick cakes 
and bake in the oven, or cut in slices and fry in pork 
fat on a griddle. Break, not cut, and eat hot. 

GRAHAM FLOUR. 

This preparation of wheat, though finely ground, 
may be treated somewhat like grits, and a bread may 
be made of it with the addition of water only which 
will be light and palatable. The secret of success is 
in having the oven very hot. 

Mix salted graham flour with cold 
n ge ' water to a batter thick enough to drop, 
then put it into iron forms already heated, and bake 
in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes. 



Fine Wheat Flour. 89 

FINE WHEAT FLOUR. 

Flour may be cooked, of course, in boiling water 
or milk, and in this way is used to thicken gravies or 
soups, and also to make a sort of mush with milk 
and eggs. See " Minute Pudding," page 107. 

The principle of cooking it in this case differs not 
at all from the cooking of a potato; in both cases the 
starch granules soak up the hot water till they burst 
their cellulose walls. But if we were to try to bake 
flour when wet up into a thick paste, we would find it, 
in the first place, difficult to accomplish, the heat being 
very slowly communicated from the surface to the 
interior, and when done, we would have only a tough 
indigestible mass. There is, however, one way of 
preparing such a paste for cooking, which we will con- 
sider before treating the " raising " of flour for bread. 
Flour dough is in this case kneaded hard, rolled thin 
and then dried. So treated we know it in the form of 

MACARONI AND NOODLES. 

Macaroni. a trade article extensively used 

abroad where the best kinds cost only ten to twelve 
cents a pound, and the broken or imperfect sticks 
not more than seven. It is a valuable article of food, 
but its use will not become extensive among us while 
it is so dear. 

Like the fine flour of which it is principally com- 
posed it is deficient in fat, and must be eaten with 
the addition of butter, cheese or milk. 

How cooked. Put into plenty of salted boiling 
water, and boil twenty or thirty minutes, till it is 
perfectly tender (if old it takes longer to cook). 



90 Macaroni and Noodles. 

Drain carefully, pouring it into a cullender or lifting 
out with a skimmer. 

1st. (Best.) Put it in the dish in 
layers with grated cheese and butter. 
2d. Serve with milk and butter sauce. 
3d. Add two beaten eggs to the milk and butter 
sauce. 

Like bread and rice, macaroni when 

Other Uses. . , . , . , , , 

cooked is made into a great number of 
dishes ; it is added to soups, it is mixed with meat m 
ragouts, and it is cooked with certain vegetables, as 
tomatoes. 

Arrange the macaroni in a pudding 

With Tomatoes. ,. , . ° . x1 , , , ° 

dish m layers with grated cheese and 
stewed tomatoes. Brown in the oven. 

This is also a trade article, but that 
of home manufacture is much better. 
It may be called one of the German national dishes, 
so extensive is its use among that people, with whom 
it often constitutes the main dish of a meal without 
meat. 

Ingredients. 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk or water, 
1 teaspoon salt, and flour. 

To make. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
put in the other ingredients and work to a stiff 
dough, then cut in 4 strips, knead each till fine grained, 
roll out as thin as possible and lay the sheet out to 
dry. When all are rolled begin with the first, cut it 
into 4 equal pieces, lay the pieces together and shave 
off very fine as you would cabbage, pick the shavings 
apart with floured hands and let them dry a little. 

To use. Boil them a few at a time in salted water 



Bread Making. 91 

taking them out with a skimmer and keeping them 
warm. Strew over them bread crumbs fried in but- 
ter or use like macaroni. (See page 90.) 

These noodles will keep indefinitely when dried 
hard, therefore when eggs are cheap they may be 
made and laid up for the winter. The water in which 
they are boiled is the basis of Noodle Soup; it needs 
only the addition of a little butter, a tablespoonf ul of 
chopped parsley and a few of the cooked noodles. 

Experimenters have proved that flour in the form 
of noodles and macaroni is more perfectly digested 
than even in bread. 

BREAD MAKING. 
^volvS ^ S ° far WG haVe USed in tlie COokil lg 

of flour no other principle than the 
simple application of water and heat. We must now 
consider how fine flour is to be made into what is 
known as bread. As before said, the particles easily 
pack together when wet into a pasty dough which, if 
so baked, would defy mastication and digestion. We 
must contrive in some way to separate these flour 
particles by forcing between them air or some other 
gas, so as to present as large a surface as possible to 
the action of the digestive juices and this maybe done 
1st, By surrounding these particles by fat, as in mak- 
ing pie-crust; 2d, By the air contained in beaten 
egg; 3d, By forcing carbonic acid gas through the 
mass by the action of ( a ) yeast, or ( b ) of bi-carbo- 
nate of soda acting on some acid. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH FAT. 

Pie-crust. The familiar example of this method 

is pie-crust, where a paste of water and flour is re- 



92 Piecrust and Egg- Raised Breads. 

peatedly rolled and spread with some fat, as lard, until 
the paste is in paper-thick layers with the fat between. 
When baked, the air expands and separates the flour 
particles, a true lightness being the result. 

So much fat must be employed to produce this re- 
sult, however, that the use of this method will of course 
be limited to the construction of dessert dishes, of 
which not much is eaten at once. 

A flour rich in starch is better for this purpose 
than a gluten flour. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH EGG. 

The next most simple method of cooking fine flour, 
is to introduce between its particles the air adherent 
to beaten egg, and by the immediate application of 
heat to expand the air and stiffen the mass thus ae- 
rated. By this method none of the food principle 
is wasted as when yeast is used, nor is a chemical salt 
left in the dough as in the action of soda, but the 
method is expensive and is limited in its use to what 
may be called fancy breads and cakes. 

We have selected the following mixture as the 
foundation for egg breads; of course others are pos- 
sible: 

Foundation of 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon but- 
egg breads. ter and 1 teaspoon salt. 

This mixture is then thickened with any kind of 
flour, or with part flour and part bread, boiled rice, 
boiled hominy or corn mush. 

To mix. First beat the eggs very light, whites and 
yolks separately, then the yolks smoothly with the 
flour and milk, stir the whites in at last very lightly 



Yeast Breads. 93 

and bake immediately. The eggs must be beaten 
very light, and the batter just of good pouring con- 
sistency, thinner than if no eggs were used, 
wheat, Graham Add to above foundation mixture a 

or Corn Pan- 

cakes. scan t pmt of either of these flours, 

cooked Rice, Add to tne foundation mixture one 

Hominy or cup of flour and twocupsof boiled rice, 
Pancakts. Sh homin y or corn mush (or the propor- 
tions may be reversed ). Bake in small, 
rather thick cakes. If they stick to the griddle add 
a little more flour. 
n -., . Add to the foundation mixture 1 cup 

Bread Pancakes. n 1 

Hour and 2 cups bread crumbs that 
have been soaked soft in milk or water and mashed 
smooth. The batter should be rather thick. Bake 
in small cakes adding more flour if they stick. 
Muffins and Muffins and waffles of all sorts are 

waffles. ma( j e like pancakes, but a little stiffer 

with flour. 

otheregsdougha. 0the 5 e 88;™«*- doughs, mixed in 
somewhat different proportions and 
differently cooked, as fritters, sponge cakes and bat- 
ter puddings, will be found in another section. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH CARBONIC ACID GAS. 

This is brought about by ( a ) the growth of the 
yeast plant or by the action ( I ) of bicarbonate of soda 
on some acid. Both of these methods have their ad- 
vantages. 

Yeagt The action of the yeast plant when 

brought into contact with flour and 

water is to develop carbon dioxide gas and alcohol. 

This it does at the expense of the little sugar already 



94 White Bread. 

in the flour, but still more at the expense of that 
which it manufactures out of the starch, or as some 
say, out of the gluten. The chemist ascertains this 
loss of nutritive matter to be as high as 1$, and Lie- 
big, who was strongly opposed to this method of 
bread raising, estimated that 40,000 people might be 
fed on the flour that was wasted in this way in Ger- 
many alone. But notwithstanding this waste, the 
method, on account of its convenience and the good 
taste it gives to bread, still holds its ground. 

The time cannot be far distant when the baker will 
furnish us better and cheaper bread than we can 
make in our own kitchens. This has long been the 
case on the continent of Europe, but for some reason 
we have not yet reached that point in civilization 
and the housekeeper must still learn this art and 
practice it, for good bread is a necessity. 

The best flour is, even for the poor, 
' the cheapest, as it makes more and bet- 
ter bread to the pound. There should always be two 
kinds kept on hand; the yellowish, high-priced gluten 
flour for bread making, and the whiter, cheaper sort 
for pastry, cake and thickenings. 

No recipe for making yeast will be given, as the com- 
pressed yeast is so much better than the house -wife 
can make, and is now obtainable even in small towns. 
Proportions. 1 quart warm water, 

To make bread. _ . .,, . x „ n ^ . , , 

2f qts. (about) of flour, 1 tablespoon 

salt, 1 tablespoon or one cake of compressed yeast, or 

i cup liquid yeast. The proportions of flour and 

water differ according to the quality of the flour, the 

gluten flours taking up much more water than the 

starch flours. 



White Bread. 95 

Put the flour and salt into jour bread pan and 
make a hole in the middle, then pour in gradually the 
water in which the yeast has been dissolved, mixing 
as you pour with your hand or with a spoon. As 
soon as the mass will hold together, take it out on a 
moulding board and with floured hands work it grad- 
ually into a tender dough, using as little flour as possi- 
ble, for the dough must remain as soft as can be 
handled. This first moulding should take from 15 
to 20 minutes. Then let the bread rise in a warm 
place ; the yeast plant can live in a temperature 
ranging from 30° to 170° F. but thrives best at about 
72°. Cover with a cloth and in winter keep by a warm 
stove. If made with compressed yeast, the dough will 
rise the first time in an hour. Take it at its first 
lightness, before it begins to sink back (it should be 
like a honeycomb all through, and double or treble 
its original bulk), put it on your moulding board, or 
^ of it at a time, and mould it well until it is fine 
and tender again. Add no flour this time but keep 
the hands moist with warm water or milk or with 
lard. Divide into loaves — small ones — which should 
only half fill the greased tins, and set again to rise, 
keeping it at the same temperature and letting it get 
very light again. Flour that is rich in gluten requires 
longer to rise than that containing more starch. 

It is difficult to give directions about 
the heat of the oven. One housekeeper 
says " hot enough so that you can hold your hand in 
till you count twelve," another, " until you can count 
thirty," and the puzzled novice can only inquire 
" how fast do you count?" The oven must be hot 



96 White Bread. 

enough to brown the bread lightly in ten minutes, 

and to bake a small loaf in from twenty minutes to 

half an hour. 

If more convenient, a bread sponge 

Additional facts. , -, , « , 'iiii ' > 

may be made at nrst with the water, 
yeast, and part of the flour, and when light, the rest 
of the flour added. It hastens the process a little. 
How many times Do not let the bread rise more than 

shall bread rise? t w ice; it loses each time some of its 
nutritive qualities. Bread raised once is coarse of 
grain but sweet to the taste. 
To keep bread Mould it harder than you do bread 

lon s- that is to be eaten soon. 

Dough that has Set the bread pan immediately into 

become chilled. a larger one filled with warm water and 
as the water cools replace with warm until the dough 
begins to rise again. 
Dough raised du- This method is often convenient, and 

ring the night, does very well if slower yeast is used, 
but bread is better to be raised quickly with com- 
pressed yeast. If the latter is used a forenoon is suf- 
ficient for the process of making and baking. 
To delay the ^ or conven ience, as to make warm 

baking of bread biscuits for supper, rising dough may 

dough. be kept at a stan( i s till for hours with- 

out injury at a temperature of about 50°, as in a cel- 
lar, and an hour before baking brought into a warm 
room to finish the rising process. 

BREADS FROM OTHER FLOURS. 

„ . . , Graham bread is made like white 

Graham bread. 

bread using two parts graham to one 
of white flour, or any other proportion liked, but it 



Brown Breads. 97 

should be mixed very soft. A little sugar and fat 
should be added, 1 tablespoon lard or beef fat and 2 
tablespoons sugar or molasses. Bake slower and long- 
er than white bread. 

The usual and most convenient way of making 
graham bread is to mix the flour and other ingredi- 
ents with some of the white sponge on baking day. 

Rye bread is made exactly as is bread 

from wheat flour, but in this country 
4 parts rye, 1 part corn meal, and a handful of wheat 
flour are generally used. It must bake much longer 
— two to three hours in a slow oven. It is still better 
steamed the first two hours and baked the third. 

Corn bread is made of 3 parts corn 

meal to 1 of wheat flour, same quantity 
of yeast and salt as for white bread, and an addition 
of 2 tablespoons lard or beef fat and two tablespoons 
sugar. It is only to be stirred, not moulded, and need 
rise but once. 

BISCUITS, BUNS, ETC. 

Breakfast roils or These are "little breads" of either 
white or graham flour. Make part of 
the dough out into little balls which will rise more 
quickly and bake in a shorter time, a little butter 
or lard, one tablespoon to a quart of dough being 
generally moulded with it. 

When called " Breakfast Rolls" the dough is made 
out into flat round cakes, the top buttered and folded 
over not quite in the middle. 

Milk rolls are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk instead of water; they 
are very tender and delicate. 
9 



98 Biscuit, Buns, Etc. 

wheat gems or ne modification in the baking of 
drop biscuits, dough is worthy of mention. Use about 
a cup more milk in mixing the receipt for bread 
given above, so that the dough will just drop from a 
spoon and then bake in forms in the oven, or on a slow 

griddle. 

These are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk and with the addition 
of 4 eggs and 1 cup of butter to a quart of milk. 
Form, long and high. 

other uses for There are many uses for the above 
rusk dough, dough. When made out into biscuit 
shape it may be steamed and eaten as a simple pud- 
ding with fruit, or, made into tiny balls and cooked, 
when light, in a meat stew, the dish being then 
called a pot-pie. 

These are like Rusks (above) plus 2 

Buns, plain. „ -, ,.,,, . . 

cups oi sugar and a little spice, say, i 
teaspoon nutmeg. Eoll the dough out -J- inch thick, 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let it rise till very 
light, which will take some time on account of the 
sugar. 

To plain buns add 1 cup India cur- 
rants, washed, dried and floured, or 
raisins cut in bits. 

From the recipe for Buns, as above, 

Raised Cake. 

a plain and good cake may be made by 
using 1 pint instead of 1 quart of milk to the given 
quantity of eggs, butter and sugar, and adding a lit- 
tle more fruit. Bake in a ribbed pudding dish 
which has been thickly buttered, and in the butter, 
blanched almonds arranged in rows. 



Yeast Pancakes. 99 

Bun dough may also be fried in fat, 

Doughnuts. , , 

as doughnuts. 
For a fine brown To give a fine crust to biscuit or 
crust. buns: Brush over before baking, with a 

feather dipped in one of these mixtures: one teaspoon 
of molasses and milk, two teaspoons of sugar and 
milk, or three teaspoons sugar and the white of an 

egg- 
To show the true relation of the above doughs to 
each other, the quantity has been kept the same as 
for bread dough, but one-half the given quantity 
of cake, buns or biscuit would be enough for a large 
family. 

Any of the above doughs can be 

To steam bread. -,-,, , . , -Tei-i- 

cooked by steaming instead of baking, 
when more convenient. They will of course lack the 
brown crust, but may afterward be dried or browned 
in the oven. A somewhat longer time is required 
for steaming than for baking. 

YEAST BREADS — THIN. 

Raised Pancakes. The materials for these are, 1 qt. milk, 

Wheat Graham 

and Corn. or milk and water, a little more than a 

qt. of flour, 1 tablespoon compressed 
yeast or f cup liquid yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon butter; the flour may be wheat flour, wheat 
and graham mixed, or wheat and corn mixed, or 
part bread crumbs may be mixed with the flour. 
Make and raise like bread sponge. It is better they 
should be too thick than too thin, as milk may be 
added to thin them after they are light, but raw flour 
added at that time spoils them. 



100 Soda Raised Breads. 

Pancakes with Add to the above batter just before 

egg*- baking, 1, 2 or 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

Muffins and beaten separately. Use in this case some- 

Waffles. w j iat l egs fl our> 

These can be made of either of the above pancake 
batters, with 1 cup to 1 pt. more flour. 

BUCKWHEAT FLOUR. 

Buckwheat flour makes bread that is relished by 
those accustomed to its somewhat peculiar taste, but 
in this country it is used only in pancakes. 
Buckwheat Pan- 1 qt. buckwheat flour, 1 teaspoon 
cakes. sa it, 1 cup or less of corn meal scalded 
in a little water, 2 teaspoons molasses ( to make them 
brown — a little buttermilk answers the same pur- 
pose), 1 tablespoon compressed yeast, 1 qt. warm 
water, or enough to make a thin batter. Let rise 
over night. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH SODA. 

Soda. On the interaction of bicarbonate of 

soda and different acids, by which carbonic acid gas 
is liberated is based a common method of raising 
doughs. It wastes none of the flour, as does yeast, 
but it has its own disadvantages. The product of 
these chemicals acting on each other is a salt which 
is left in the bread; hydrochloric acid acted on by 
soda gives common salt, to which there could be no 
objection, but this method is not easily used in the 
household, and the salts left by other acids, as the lac- 
tic acid of milk when acted on by bicarbonate of soda, 
we get enough of in other dishes. Whether reliable 
experiments have been made as to the comparative 



Soda Raised Breads. 101 

digestibility of breads raised with soda and those 
raised with yeast the writer does not know, but there 
is a wide-spread impression that the former should 
be eaten only occasionally, and it is certain that we 
tire of them sooner than of yeast breads. Besides, 
which is of importance to one who must economize in 
milk, eggs, &c, better materials must be used with 
soda than with yeast to produce an equally rich tasting 
bread or cake. 

METHODS. 

We have three methods of using bicarbonate of 
soda to raise flour; by its action on 

1. The acid contained in sour milk, from 1 to 2 
teaspoons of soda being used to a quart of milk. 

2. On cream of tartar, the proportions being 1 tea- 
spoon soda to 2 of cream of tartar to a quart of flour. 

3. On tartaric or other acids already mixed with it 
in a baking powder and to be used according to di- 
rections on the package, or, one may say in general, 
that three teaspoons of the powder go to every quart 
of flour. 

The secret of success in making soda 

Secret of Success. n , -, . . . , + N , , 

raised breads consists in ( 1 ) the per- 
fect mixing of the soda and cream of tartar or the 
baking powder, with the flour, cooks who are par- 
ticular sieving these ingredients five times. In this 
connection we cannot urge too strongly that each 
housewife should make and keep on hand this pre- 
pared flour; in a leisure time she can measure, sieve 
and mix it, and she has then in making biscuit or cake, 
only to chop in the butter, add the milk and eggs 
and it is done. 



102 Soda Biscuits. 

2. In light mixing of the shortening with the flour; 
this is best accomplished with a chopping knife. 

3. In a rapid completion of the work after the two 
raising agencies have become wet and begun to work, 
and no delay in baking when all is ready. 

Ingredients. 1 qt. of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, or but- 



ter and lard, or butter and suet, 1 scant pint 
milk or water with 1 teaspoon soda and two of cream 
of tartar, or three teaspoons of baking powder; or, 1 
scant pint sour milk with 1 teaspoon soda and 1 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar; if the milk be very sour omit 
the cream of tartar. 

To make. In a chopping bowl stir all well together 
except the shortening and milk, then chop in the 
shortening which should be cold and hard, till all is 
fine and well mixed. Now add the milk a little at a 
time, still mixing with the chopping knife. Take 
out on the moulding board and roll out with as little 
mixing as possible. 

This dough is often made richer, even 1 cup of 
butter to 1 qt. of flour being used, but so much as 
this can only be considered extravagant and un- 
healthful. 

To use this dough. Roll 1 in. thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter and bake. To 
be eaten warm with butter. 

As Graham Bis- "Use three parts graham flour to one 
cuits. of wheat and treat in same manner. 

Roll i in. thick, fit into jelly cake 

As Short Cake. ,. , , . TTri , , -. 

tins and bake. When nicely browned, 
split and butter and pile up like toast. 
For fruit short cake (see pages 108 and 109.) 



Soda Raised Pancakes. 103 

SODA BREAD OF CORN MEAL. 

Corn Bread, or 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup sour or but- 
johnnycake. termilk, or both of sour milk, 1 tea- 
1. Plain. spoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 table- 

spoon butter or suet or lard, 3 cups Indian meal, and 

1 of wheat flour, or all of Indian meal. Pour into a 
tin and bake 40 minutes. 

2 Ri h r ^e same w ^ n an e SS an( ^ i CU P sugar 

added. 
No. 1, with the addition of 3 eggs, \ 
cup sugar and \ cup butter, 1 cup meal being omitted. 

SODA RAISED BREAD— THIN. 

Pancakes tvithout Eggs. 
i. Of wheat Ingredients. 1 qt. flour, 1 teaspoon 

salt, and 1 scant qt. sour milk, with 2 
level teaspoons soda and the same of cream of tartar 
unless the milk is very sour, when omit the cream of 
tartar. Sweet milk can also be used with 1 teaspoon 
soda and 2 of cream of tartar, or 3 of baking powder. 

To make. Mix the salt and cream of tartar if used, 
with the flour. Make a hole in the middle and pour 
in the milk gradually, stirring with a spoon till smooth. 
Then beat hard for 5 minutes, or till it is bubbly. Add 
the soda dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, and bake 
immediately on a very hot griddle. 

Unless well beaten before the soda is added, these 
pancakes without eggs are not a success. 

If made with sour milk they will be still better, if 
when mixed ( without the soda, of course ) the batter 
is left to stand twelve or even twenty-four hours. 



104 Soda Raised Pancakes, 

Just before using add the soda dissolved in a little 
hot water. 

2. Of Graham Are made in the same way, 1 part 

Flour. being of white flour and 3 parts graham. 

3. of Corn As above, with corn meal instead of 

Meal. graham. 

Pancakes with Eggs. 
Ingredients. To any of the 3 preceding recipes add 
2 or 3 eggs, beating yolks and whites separately. 

Muffins and Waffles. 
Muffins and waffles of all kinds are the same as pan- 
cakes, made a little thicker and with the addition of 
1 tablespoon of butter. 

Fritters. 
For fritters, which should be next in order (see page 
113). 



USES FOE BKEAD. 



These are so numerous that the housekeeper need 
never fear the accumulation of stale bread, if she will 
only take care of it in time. Every day the bits left 
from meals and the dry ends of the loaf 
must be dried hard in the oven and then 
put away in paper bags. If time allows, pare oif the 
crusts, cut into cubes and dry separately to add to 
soups. 

This dried bread will keep for weeks or months — 
it must simply be kept clean and dry. In any recipe 
where bread-crumbs are called for, as bread pudding 
or bread omelet, use this dried bread, laying it first 
in cold water till it is soft, then pressing it dry in a 
towel and crumbling it lightly with the hand. 

Here are a few of the ways in which bread can be 
used. 

USES FOR BREAD IN SLICES. 

Toast. In dry toast, milk toast, and water 

toast, to be eaten as such and as a foundation for 
many other dishes. 

Fried toast — bread slices soaked in egg and milk, 
or water, and fried on a griddle with a little fat. (See 
page 60). Cold milk or water toast may be so used. 
Fritters. For Bread Fritters (see page 114). 

105 



106 Uses for Bread. 

Puddings. For bread and butter pudding (see page 

in). 

Stale bread may be cut in slices and 

Steamed Bread. , , , , -, -, 

steamed so as to taste sweet and good. 
Set the slices up on end in the steamer and steam 5 
or 10 minutes, then dry a little in an oven. 

Bread Biscuits of all sorts, even when sev- 

Rebaked. era i d avs \&^ mav b e ma de nearly as 

good as when fresh, by wetting the tops and setting 

in a hot oven for about five minutes. A convenient 

way of having warm biscuits for breakfast. 

USES FOR CRUMBS OR DRIED BREAD. 

Soaked and crumbled as described on page 105 and 
use in bread dough instead of half the flour. 

In bread omelettes (see page 60). 

In meat balls for soups and stews (see page 127). 

In bread dressing. Pour enough hot water on dry 
bread to soften it and chop it not too fine ; season 
with chopped onion, herbs and suet or tried out fat. 
The addition of an egg is an improvement. Bake 
covered, about an hour, then uncover and brown. 
This mixture may also be used for stuffing a fowl, leg 
of mutton, &c. ; or it may be fried in spoonfuls on a 
griddle and eaten with a sweet sauce as the simplest 
form of pancakes. 

In bread pancakes (see page 93). 

In bread puddings (see pages 109, 110 and 111). 

For breading chops, croquettes, &c, that are to be 
fried in boiling fat. 



SIMPLE SWEET DISHES. 



This department does not pretend to be complete, 
it simply aims to classify as many of the cheaper kinds 
as the ordinary family needs. These will generally be 
used as desserts but there is no reason why the main 
dish of the meal should not have some sugar in it. I 
remember that in a simple pension in Thuringia, Ger- 
many, I once ate of a dinner consisting of a soup, a 
salad and one other dish, which we would call a bread 
pudding. I was helped bountifully to this main dish 
of the meal, I ate and was satisfied, for the materials 
were good and it was well made and delicately baked. 
The recroe will be found on page 110. 

MILK PUDDINGS. 

Indian pudding. i qt. f milk, •£■ cup corn meal, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, -| cup chopped suet, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
\ cup molasses. Bake covered for 3 hours in very 
slow oven and serve with sweet sauce. 
Swelled rice 1 qk skim milk or 1 pt. full milk and 

pudding. i pt. water, -J cup rice, 2 tablespoons 

sugar, | teaspoon salt. Bake slowly 2 hours covered, 
then uncover and brown. It will be a creamy mass 
and delicious in taste. Serve without sauce. Raisins 
may be added. 
Minute pudding Ingredients. 1 qt. milk - skim milk 

of wheat or with 1 teaspoon butter will do — 2 eggs, 

graham flour. | pt flour? ± teaspoon Salt. To pre- 
107 



108 Fruit Puddings. 

vent burning make in double boiler or pail set in 
a kettle of boiling water. Mix the flour and egg 
smooth with part of the milk, heat the remainder to 
boiling and stir in the egg and flour. Stir till it 
thickens, then let it swell and cook slowly for 15 min- 
utes. Serve with fruit, or with sugar and milk. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. water, 1 pt. milk, 

Farina pudding-. , . . 

.1 teaspoon salt, -J pt. farina, 2 eggs. 
Make as above. 

This is excellent cut in slices when cold and fried 
brown on a griddle. It may also be made without 



Ingredients. 1 pt. fresh buttermilk, 

Buttermilk £ l 

pudding-. * tablespoons cream or butter, 1 tea- 

spoon salt, a pinch of soda, and flour for 
stiff batter. Steam 2 hours, or till it bursts open, 
or bake in little cups or patties. May be eaten with 
any fruit sauce or with milk and sugar. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS WITH SODA BISCUIT DOUGH. 

For this dough, see page 102. 
When baked as short cake, split the 

Shortcakes. _ x 

cakes and spread between each pair 

strawberries mashed and sweetened. 

other fruit short- I n the same way make shortcake of 

cakes. berries of any sort, stewed apples, stewed 

pieplant, lemon or orange tart filling, in short, any 

filling for a pie, that is ready to eat without further 

cooking. These should be eaten warm but not hot, 

and are as good next day, if put in the oven long 

enough to become again warm and crisp. 

Roi Pol ud These favorite dishes are but modifi- 

ding and apple cations of the fruit shortcake. In the 

dumpling. firgt the dough i s ma( i e j us t stiff enough 



Fruit Puddings. 109 

to roll out, covered with apples or berries or other 
fruit, then rolled up and put to bake in a pan contain- 
ing a little water. 

For apple dumplings, the crust is cut in squares, 
sliced apples placed in the middle, then the corners 
gathered up and pinched together. Bake like Eoly 
Poly pudding, or steam. 

If you wish to cook your fruit at the 
same time with the crust, fill a deep 
pie plate with fruit, as apples, and cover with the 
rolled out shortcake. Bake brown, and when done 
lift the crust, sweeten the fruit, replace the crust, and 
the "pie" is ready to serve. 

Kaised biscuit or bun dough (see page 98), can be 
used in the same way, or still better, yeast pancake mix- 
ture (see page 99), in layers with any sort of fruit. 

If you will call these fruit shortcakes "pies," and 
be content therewith, you will save much labor, much 
expensive material, and set before your family a more 
healthful dish. No farther recipes for pies will be 
given; a few that are generally classed as such, com- 
ing more naturally under the head of puddings. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS WITH BREAD. 

l. Brown Betty. Ingredients. 1 pt. bread crumbs, or 
dry bread moistened, 1 qt. chopped sour apples, \ pt. 
sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 4 tablespoons butter or 
suet. 

Arrange bread and apples in layers in a pudding 
dish, beginning and ending with the bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with the sugar and spice and 
spreading the butter over the top. Cover it till the 
apples are soft, then uncover to brown. 



110 Custard Puddings. 

The same, made with raspberries or 

2. Berry Betty. . ' . . r 

blackberries. If not juicy enough, a 
little water must be added. A pudding may be made 
in the same way with cherries or any other well fla- 
vored fruit. 

CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

1. Plain. Ingredients. 1 qt. milk, 4 eggs, beaten 
yolks and whites separately, 4 tablespoons sugar, a 
grating of nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Bake in a 
buttered pudding dish till solid, and take from the 
oven before it curdles. 

2. Rice and cus- To above ingredients add -J cup of 

tard. r i ce cooked soft in part of the milk, or in 
water. Bake \ to f of an hour, till nicely browned. 
This is the foundation for the many varieties of rice 
puddings. Kaisins may be added. 

Tapioca and Sago puddings are made 

in the same way, except that they must 

4. sago. k e goa k e( j f or 2 hours in part of the 

milk or in water. 

Indian and cus- To the ingredients for plain custard 
tard pudding, pudding add 1 pt. of corn meal and an 
extra cup of milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon gin- 
ger, \ cup sugar and ■£■ cup chopped beef suet or 2 
tablespoonf uls tried out fat. Scald the meal first in 
the milk and bake the pudding, covered, two hours 
in slow oven. 

BREAD AND CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

l. Bread pudding 1 qt. boiling milk poured on as much 
or "Semmei bread — as will absorb it, about 1 pt. if 

Geraiisch." , , , , -u_ i 

hard' — 4 eggs, \ teaspoon salt, \ cup 
sugar. 



Bread and Custard Puddings, 111 

The milk and bread are allowed to get cold and the 
other ingredients well beaten with it, the eggs being 
beaten separately, and the whites added last. Bake 
one hour in a buttered dish. Eat without a sauce. 

Of course a bread pudding can be made with fewer 
eggs, but then it will hardly do for the main dish of 
a meal. 

2. Bread pudding Dried bread soaked soft in cold water 
( simple), and pressed dry in a cloth, milk to make 
it into a soft mush. Add 1 beaten egg to a pint of 
the mixture. Bake from half an hour to an hour 
and eat with sweet sauce. 

With raisins. Raisins or currants or fresh fruit, as 

cherries, may be added. 
With dried After putting in $ the pudding mix- 

appies. ture, put a thick layer of stewed dried 

apples mashed and sweetened, and flavored with 
orange peel or cinnamon. 
Bread and butter A convenient variation on the ordi- 

pudding. narv bread pudding. 
Plain - Spread thin slices of bread with but- 

ter, and pour over them a simple custard, viz. : 4 eggs 
to 1 qt. of milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt. 
Keep pressed down till the custard is absorbed; Bake 
slowly till firm and brown. Eat with or without 
sauce. 
m , The bread slices may be spread with 

With fruit. T ,. . .% r _ . , m 

India currants, or with any kind of 

fresh or dried cooked fruit, not too juicy. 

individual bread Cut small round loaves of bread into 

puddings. quarters, or use biscuits. Soak in a 

mixture of 4 eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separate- 



112 Suet Puddings. 

ly, and added to 1 pt. of milk with a little sugar 
and nutmeg. When they have absorbed all they 
will without breaking, drain and bake in slow oven 
to a nice brown, spreading a little butter over once 
or twice at the last. This dish can be made very 
pretty by putting currants in the holes around the 
top and sticking in pieces of blanched almonds. 

SUET PUDDINGS. 

Ingredients. \ pt. beef suet, chopped fine, \ pt. 
molasses, \ pt. milk, -J pt. raisins or currants, or both. 
(A part of the fruit may be figs and prunes cut in 
bits.) 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda mixed with 
the molasses, 1 pt. bread crumbs (dry), 1 pt. graham 
flour and 2 eggs. Steam 3 hours or bake 2. 
Eat with a lemon sauce. 

Use the above recipe, omitting the 
eggs and using instead of graham flour 
and bread crumbs If pt. white flour. 
To reheat pud- All the preceding puddings are good 
dings. reheated. Cut in slices, and warm in 

the oven, or fry in a little butter in a pan. Sift sugar 
over and eat with sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 pt. water made into a smooth starch with a heap- 
ing tablespoon flour. Cook 10 minutes, strain if nec- 
essary, sweeten to taste and pour it on 1 tablespoon 
butter and juice of a lemon or other flavoring. If 
lemon is not used add 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

This can be made richer by using more butter and 
sugar; stir them to a cream with the flavoring, then 
add the starch. 



Fritters. 113 

FRITTERS. 

These are various doughs and batters fried in boil- 
ing fat, and eaten warm with sugar or a sweet sauce. 
The hot fat gives a puffy lightness and a delicious 
crisp crust. 

Lard is most generally used, but cooking oil (see 
page 41) is better, and even beef fat prepared as (see 
same page) is good. The fat must be smoking hot to 
prevent its soaking into the dough. For the same 
reason batters so cooked must contain more egg than 
if they were to be baked. 

Forms. The fritter ma y be rolle( l out and cut 

in shapes, or dropped in spoonfuls or 
run through a funnel, being, of course, mixed of dif- 
ferent consistency for each method. When nicely 
browned, take out with a wire spoon and lay on brown 
paper, which will absorb the fat, then sprinkle with 
sugar and send to table. 

Soda raised Ingredients. 1 pt. flour (| may be 

fritters. graham), -J teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon oil, 

butter, or lard, 1 egg and J pt. sour milk with i tea- 
spoon soda, or same of sweet milk with -J teaspoon soda 
and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Beat the egg, white 
and yolk separately, adding the white last of all. 

Drop from a spoon into boiling lard; or, omit nearly 
half the flour and pour through a funnel. 

This batter may be also raised with yeast. 
Egg raised These are more crisp and delicate, 

fritters. if i^d very light, soda or cream of 

tartar or baking powder may be added to these also. 
These batters are thinner than the preceding; they 
must be well beaten if no soda is used. 
10 



114 Fritters. 

1. Ingredients. 1 scant pt. of flour, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, -J- pt. milk, 1 teaspoon oil or butter. 

Beat the yolks well, then again well with the flour 
and milk, add the stiffly beaten whites last. Fry in 
spoonfuls. 

2. Ingredients. 1 heaping pt. flour, 4 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon oil or butter, 1 teaspoon salt, about a pint 
of water, or enough to make the batter a little thicker 
than for pancakes. Proceed as before. 

1 tablespoon of lemon juice may be 
added to any of the above recipes, or a 
little nutmeg or cinnamon if liked. 

Take sour apples, peel, cut out the 

Trait fritters. ,, n ,. -, • -,- -. 

core neatly and slice round m slices i 
in. thick. Soak these a few hours in sweetened wine, 
lemon juice or other flavoring. Dip in either of the 
above batters and fry. (They are also very good with- 
out being soaked in the flavoring.) 

Peaches, pine apples and bananas may be used in 
the same way. 

Trim the crust from sliced bread, cut 

Bread fritters. . . , , , ., , , , 

m nice shapes and soak soit, but not 
till they break, in a cup of milk to which has been 
added 1 beaten egg and some flavoring, as cinnamon, 
lemon, etc. Dip in fritter batter and fry. 



COOKING OF VEGETABLES. 



The Legumes. As we have seen, the food value of 

the dried bean, pea and lentil, is great, 
but as usually cooked a large per cent, of it is lost 
to us. 

In the process of cooking, the cellulose part must 
be broken up, softened, and as much as possible 
entirely removed. These vegetables, if they cannot 
be obtained ground, must be soaked in cold water 
some time before cooking, cooked till very soft and 
then mashed and sieved. No form of cooking that 
does not include sieving can be recommended except 
for very hardy stomachs. See pages 55 and 117. 

This vegetable must also be treated 
with care. The starch grains of which 
it is so largely composed swell in the process of cook- 
ing, and burst the cellulose walls confining them, but 
when this stage is reached the potato is too often 
spoiled by being allowed to absorb steam and become 
sodden. As soon as tender, boiled potatoes should 
be drained, dried out a few moments, then sprinkled 
with salt, and the kettle covered close with a towel, 
until they are served. They should then be put into 
a napkin and sent to the table. 

Other garden vegetables are cooked 

Other vegetables. , ,., . . . , .,. 

more or less alike; put into boiling 
water and kept at a rapid boil until tender, and no 
115 



116 Cooking of Vegetables. 

longer, — the length of time varying for any given 
vegetable according to the freshness, size, and degree 
of maturity. When done or nearly so, they should 
be seasoned and served as soon as possible. 

A welcome variety in the serving of 

Mixed vegetables. , ,, ij? j • 1 -ii* 1 

vegetables can be round in skiJliul 
mixture of two or more kinds. A few of these mix- 
tures are, green corn and shelled beans, or succotash, 
green corn and tomatoes, green corn with stewed 
potatoes, potatoes and turnips mashed together, green 
peas with a quarter as many carrots cut very small, 
potatoes with same proportion of carrots and seasoned 
with fried sliced onions poured over. 
Vegetables and There are also mixtures of vegetables 
fruits. and fruits that are very successful, as 

lentils or beans with a border of stewed prunes. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 



In general. These soups should be largely used by 
the economical housewife; they are cheap and nutri- 
tious, and if carefully made and seasoned, excellent 
in taste. A large number of recipes are given, from 
which can be selected what is suited to materials on 
hand, to amount of time and quantity of fire. 

These will be arranged under Vegetable Soups, 
Flour and Bread Soups, and Cold Soups. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

If any meat bones are on hand or trimmings of 
meat not otherwise needed, simmer them from one to 
two hours in water and use the broth thus obtained 
instead of water in making any of the following soups. 

Most important are those made from the dried bean, 
pea and lentil, the three pod-covered vegetables. For 
their nutritive qualities see page 81. 

Ingredients. 1 lb. beans, 1 onion, 2 
tablespoons beef fat, salt and pepper. 

Additions, to be made according to taste. \ lb. 
pork, or a ham bone, a pinch of red pepper, or, an 
hour before serving, different vegetables, as carrots 
and turnips, chopped and fried. 

Soak the beans over night in 2 qts. water. In 
the morning pour off, put on fresh water and cook 
117 



118 Vegetable Soups. 

with the onion and fat till very soft, then mash or 
press through a cullender to remove the skins, and 
add enough water to make 2 qts. of somewhat thick 
soup. Season. 

This soup may also be made from cold baked beans. 
Boil i hr., or till they fall to pieces, then strain and 
season, 
split or dried Make like bean soup. 

pea soup. r 

Lentil soup. Make like bean soup. 

The water in which vegetables have 
Green vegetable b een cooked should never be thrown 
away, with the exception of that used 
for cooking beets, and potatoes boiled without peeling; 
even cabbage water can be made the basis of a good 
soup. 

General method. Boil the vegetables until very 
tender, mash or press through a cullender, thin suffi- 
ciently and season. 
Potato soup. Good and cheap. 

Ingredients. 6 large potatoes peeled, 1 large onion, 
1 heaping teaspoon salt, i teaspoon pepper. For a 
richer soup add i lb. salt pork cut in bits (in this 
case put in less salt) or add 1 cup of milk or a beaten 
egg. Chopj)ed celery leaves give a good flavor. 

Boil potatoes, onions and salt in a little water, 
and when very soft mash ; then add, a little at 
a time and stirring to keep it smooth, a qt. of hot 
water and 1 tablespoon beef fat in which 1 tablespoon 
flour has been cooked ; or use the fat for frying bread 
dice, which add at the last minute. 

Most cooks fry the sliced onion before putting it 
in the soup, but the difference in taste is so slight as 



Vegetable Soups. 119 

not to be worth the few minutes extra time, if time is 

an object. 

This is a delicious soup and very nutri- 
Green pea soup. ,. T ,.*", x 

tious. Large peas, a little too hard to 
be used as a vegetable, may be utilized in its manu- 
facture. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. shelled peas, 3 pts. water, 1 
small onion, 1 tablespoon butter or fat, 1 tablespoon 
flour. Salt and pepper. 

Put peas and onion in boiling water aud cook \ an 
hour to an hour, till very soft. Press through cul- 
lender and season. 

Pea and tomato Add to above when done, 1 pt. stewed 
soup. tomatoes and a little more seasoning. 

This is an excellent soup, having the nutrition of the 
pea and the flavor of the tomato. 

Valuable for its fine flavor, and may 

Tomato soup. , _ . . . J 

be made nutritious also by adding broth, 
milk or eggs, 

Ingredients. 1 pt. tomatoes, 2 pts. water, 1 table- 
spoon fat, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper. 

Cook the flour in the fat, add the peeled tomatoes 
and a very little water. When they have cooked to 
pieces, mash them against the side of the pot, add 
the rest of the water and the seasoning. 
Tomato soup Proceed as above, using instead of half 

No - 2 - the water, 1 pt. of milk, into which J 

tea spoon soda has been stirred. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. of parsnips cut in 

Parsnip soup. . L x * 

pieces, 3 small potatoes, 3 pts. water, 
or water and milk, salt, pepper and butter. 
Cook till the vegetables fall to pieces, mash and add 



120 Vegetable Soups. 

seasoning. If milk can be substituted for part of the 

water the soup will be improved. 

Young vegetable Ingredients. 1 pt. chopped onion, 

or spring soup, carrot, turnips and celery root in about 
equal parts, 1 tablespoon fat, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt 
and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add sugar, salt and pepper, then stir 
the vegetables in it till they begin to brown, add 3 
pts. water and set back to simmer 1 to 2 hours. Serve 
without straining. 

Ingredients. -J- doz. ears green corn, 

reen corn soup, g ^^ water, 1 tablespoon fat and 1 

tablespoon flour salt and pepper, an egg and a cup of 
milk. 

Cut the corn from the cob and boil one hour. Add 
the flour which has been fried in the fat, season and 

strain. 

Make as above, using dried corn, 
com soup. goa ^ e( j over -QJght an( j boiled 2 hours. 

Sorrel soup. An excellent flavor, new to most of us. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. sheep's sorrel, light measure 
(bought in city markets, or gathered in country 
fields), 1 onion, a few leaves of lettuce and parsley 
all chopped fine, -J teaspoon nutmeg, 1 tablespoon 
fat, 2 tablespoons flour, 3 pts. water, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, salt and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add the chopped vegetables and sweat 
or steam for 10 minutes, then add flour and last the 
boiling water; add the milk just before serving. 
Serve fried bread with it. 

u mt and Miss" To illustrate how all bits can be 
soup. used, here is a soup actually made from 

"leavings." 



Flour and Bread Soups. 121 

1 cup water drained from macaroni, 1 cup water 
drained from cabbage, with a few shreds of the cab- 
bage, 2 small bones from roast veal, 1 scant tablespoon 
boiled rice. Simmer these together with a chopped 
onion while the rest of the dinner is cooking, thicken 
with a little flour and serve with fried bread. 

FLOUR AND BREAD SOUPS. 

Flour soup. Ingredients. 1 tablespoon beef fat, 1 
heaping tablespoon flour, 2 sliced onions, 2 pts. water, 
1 pt. milk, 1 cupful of mashed potato, salt and pepper. 

Fry the onions in the fat until light brown; remove, 
pressing out the fat. In same fat now cook the flour 
till it is yellow, and add, a little at a time, the water. 
Put back the onions and let it stand awhile, then 
add milk and potato. Salt well. 

The potato may be omitted and a little more flour 
used. 
Browned Flour Ingredients. 1 tablespoon butter or 

soup. f a ^ ± CU p fl our? 2 pts. water, 1 pt. milk, 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Cook the flour brown in the fat over a slow fire or 
in the oven; add slowly the water and other ingredi- 
ents. Serve with fried bread. 
Browned Farina Make like above, but of wheat farina. 

soup. ' 

Bread soup. Ingredients. Dry bread, broken in bits, 
water, salt and pepper, an onion and a little fat. 

Soak the bread in boiling water for a few minutes, 
add the onion sliced and fried in the fat; salt and 
pepper well. 

Or, use milk instead of water, and toasted or fried 
bread. 

11 



122 Milk Sou])s. 

Noodle soup. (See page 91. ) 

MILK SOUPS OR PORRIDGES. 

These are especially good in families where there 
are children, and would be welcome on almost any 
supper table. They are almost equally good eaten 
cold. 

In making, use a porcelain kettle or an iron kettle, 
greasing it first with a little fat, as a scorched taste 
spoils the dish. 

Wheat Porridge Ingredients. 3 pts. milk, 1 pt. of 
(salted. ) W ater ( or half water and half milk), £ 
cup flour, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons salt. 

To the boiling milk and water, add the flour stirred 
smooth with a little cold milk; let it cook 10 minutes. 
Beat the eggs in gradually, but do not cook them ; 
serve with fried bread. Grated cheese is an addition 
to this soup. 

wheat Porridge Same as above, but using only a pinch 
(sweet.) f ga i^ an d as flavoring 3 tablespoons 
sugar and J teaspoon cinnamon. The flavor may be 
varied by using grated lemon peel, nutmeg, vanilla, 
bitter almond or 2 fresh peach leaves boiled with the 

milk. 

_. „ . These two porridges are still better 

Of Farma. L ° 

made of farina instead of flour. 
Barie Porrid e P ear l barley is soaked over night in 

water, and then cooked for 2 hours till 
soft. During the last hour add milk instead of 
water, as it dries away. Flavor with salt and butter. 
Indian Meal Ingredients. 1 cup meal, 2 qts. water, 

Porridge. i tablespoon flour, 1 pt. milk, salt, and 

a little ginger (if liked). Boil the meal and water 



Milk Soups. 123 

an hour; add flour and salt and boil £ hour, and add 

the milk just before serving. 

Oatmeal Make in the same way, using oat- 

Porndge. meal instead of flour. 
Graham 1 cup graham flour to 3 pts. milk and 

Porridge. wa ter. Cook 15 minutes. This may 
be varied in flavor like flour porridge. 

These three Porridges can be made from cold corn, 
oatmeal or graham mush. 

Ingredients. \ lb. chocolate, 2^ qts. 

Chocolate Soup. .,, , ... 

milk and water, sugar to taste, 1 egg 
yolk, a little vanilla or cinnamon. 

Cook the chocolate soft in a little water and add 
the rest; when boiling put in the other ingredients 
and cook the beaten white of an egg in spoonfuls on 
the top. Serve with fried bread. 
Buttermilk Soup The foreign kitchen has many recipes 
or "Pop." f or this soup quite unknown among us. 
Cooking brings out the acid, but once used to that 
taste, one finds the soup good and wholesome. 

Ingredients. To each pt. of buttermilk, 1 table- 
spoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter, a little salt. 

Bring gradually to a boil, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent curdling, and pour on fried bread. 

Varieties. Sugar and cinnamon are often added 
to this soup; also the yolk and beaten white of 1 egg. 
It is considered nutritious for the sick. 

Another. The Germans often add to this soup 
small potatoes, and bits of fried bacon. In which 
case the butter is omitted. 

Or to the buttermilk soup when done, is added 
half the quantity of cooked pears or prunes. 



124 Fruit Soups. 

Brewis. To salted boiling milk, put enough 

bread crumbs (either white or graham) to make a 
thick smooth porridge. 

This soup is earnestly recommended 

Sour Cream Soup. » , . , , - , . , 

for trial, as there are few ways in which 
such a delicious taste may be given to simple materails. 

Ingredients. 3 pts. water, ^ cup sour cream and the 
following mixture: \ cup milk, | cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
butter, ^ tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon fluid yeast or \ teaspoon compressed 
yeast. Mix these together into a dough and let it 
get light, then drop half of it in teaspoonfuls into 
the boiling water and cream; then thin the rest with 
water until it will pour, add it to the soup and cook 
5 minutes. (Not all the dough may be needed.) 

Ingredients. 1 pt. cider just begin- 
ning to work, 1 pt. water, 1 cup milk 
(boiling), 1 tablespoon flour, a little cinnamon and 
sugar. 

Let cider and water come to a boil, add the flour rub- 
bed smooth, and cook a few minutes; and lastly add 
the milk. Serve witli toast. An egg yolk may be 
added. 

FRUIT SOUPS. 

To be eaten Warm or Cold 

These are made of almost any well flavored fruit, 
cooked soft and mashed, sufficient water added, with 
a little thickening, sugar and spice. They are espe- 
cially welcome in summer; may be eaten as a first 
course, or set aside to be used as a drink during the 
meal. 



Fruit Soups. 125 

Ingredients. 4 cups peeled and quar- 

Apple soup, No. L.J , , -. , , 

tered apples, cooked to a mush in a 
little water, 1| pts. water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 3 
teaspoons sugar, J teaspoon cinnamon, a pinch of salt. 
No. 2. A soup plate full apples, 1 cup of rice. 

Cook soft and rub through a sieve, adding a little 
sugar, cinnamon, lemon peel, and an egg yolk. Thin 
sufficiently with water. 

No. 3. Instead of rice, use in the above recipe 

bread with the addition of a few India currants. 
No. 4. Instead of rice, use oatmeal and cook 

till soft, or use that already cooked. 

Make like apple soup, but if the 
plums are very sour add a little soda, 
— J teaspoon to a qt. of soup, 
cherry Soup. Made in the same manner. 

These soups may also be made of dried plums, prunes 
or dried sour cherries. Soak the fruit over night, 
soups of Pears, I f S0U P is ma(le of a milder fruit, as 
etc -. pears, which are at some seasons so 

cheap, add a few sour apples or more spice, to give 
flavor. 



ADDITIONS TO SOUPS. 



If your soup has not strength enough, milk and 
eggs may be added if no meat stock is at hand. 

The egg should be beaten, mixed with 
' ' a little of the soup, then added to the 
rest, but not boiled. The yolk is better for this pur- 
pose than the white. 

Liebig's meat extract is very valuable 
for adding flavor to a soup but it is too 
expensive for general use. 

This may be boiled a few minutes 
with the soup after being mixed smooth 
in a little water, or better, cook it in a little butter or 
melted beef fat before adding to the soup. 

On baking day, save a little of the 

2. Bread Sponge. , , in- i j. 

bread sponge, make thin enough to 
pour, and if you wish, add a beaten egg. Set away 
half an hour to rise again, and when light pour into 
the soup. 

This preparation of wheat, now sold 
by the pound at a reasonable price, is 
most valuable as an addition to soup ; it needs only 
to be sprinkled in and boiled for a few moments. 

Mashed potato mixed smooth with a 
little milk or grated cold potato may 
be added to soup to give body. 
126 



Additions to Soups. 127 

5. Barley. Add to the soup 1 hour before it is done 

pearl barley that has been soaked over night. 

One-half hour before serving, add to 

soup 1 tablespoon of rice to a quart of soup. 

Bits of bread dried hard in the oven, 

may be added to the soup just before 

serving, or fry them in the spider in a little beef fat, 

or soak in milk and egg before frying. Or, toast 

bread and cut in squares. 

Any small vegetables may be added, 

8. Vegetables. , . 1- • ' 

such as asparagus tops, tiny onions 
that have been first boiled in another pot, cooked 
peas, beans, etc. A favorite Kussian soup is beef 
soup, with the addition of beets, cabbage and carrots. 
Most important of all additions to soup are those 
which need a little more time to prepare, but are 
worth the trouble if the soup is to be the principal 
part of the dinner. Such are the following: 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUPS AND STEWS. 

This word has an unpleasant sound, too suggestive 
of the heavy and unwholesome balls often served 
under this name, but there seems to be no other name 
under which these different preparations can be 
classed. Their basis is bread and eggs, or flour and 
eggs. 

Bread mentioned here is hard dried bfead ; it must 

be softened by soaking in cold water ( hot water makes 

it pasty), then press it dry in a cloth and crumble it. 

Any cooked meat or several different 

Meat Balls. kindg when there y toQ Httle of each 

to be otherwise used, is chopped fine and mixed with 



128 Dumvlings for Soups and Stews. 

as much bread, salted and peppered, a little chopped 
suet or butter, or better still, marrow, and a chopped 
onion and some herbs, and to each cup of this mix- 
ture allow an egg. Mix lightly, make out into little 
balls and cook in very gently boiling soup. Try one 
first to see if it holds together. If not, add a little 
flour. 

Substitute for the meat any cooked 

Fish balls. n , , -. n 

fish, chopped fine. 

Two eggs to 1 cup of bread and mar- 
Marrow balls. . , t nf i 

row size of an egg, chopped. Make as 

above. 

Instead of marrow, add cubes of 

Bacon Balls. , „ . , , 

bacon tried brown. 
All these mixtures can also be fried in a pan as an 
omelette, or baked. 

Flour and Bread Three cups, half bread, half flour, 1 
Bails. e gg^ butter size of an egg, 1 cup milk 

and water, salt. Soak the bread in the milk and 
water, and make out into little balls with the other in- 
gredients. Cook, covered, 15 minutes (may also be 
boiled in salted water and eaten with fruit). 

One egff, 1 teaspoon flour, a little 

Egg Sponge. fe ° ' £ ' 

salt. Beat white of egg to foam, mix 
lightly with the rest and pour on top of the soup. 
Turn over in a few minutes with a skimmer, and be- 
fore putting into the turreen, cut it in pieces. 

No. 2. 1 heaping tablespoon flour to 1 egg and the 
yolk of another, and 1 teaspoon butter. Beat hard 
and drop in with a teaspoon. 

Schwaben Spet- One egg, 3 tablespoons milk, nearly 
zel - | cup of flour, salt. Pour through a 



Dumplings for Soups and Stews. 129 

funnel into soup or into salted water, cook 5 min- 
utes and use to garnish beef. 

Biscuit Dough An excellent addition to a stew or 

Bails. S oup is of biscuit or rusk dough ( see 

page 98), made into balls no larger than a chestnut, 
and cooked in the stew, or steamed in a cloth above 
it. 

Also the following of buttermilk: 1 

Buttermilk Balls. . ... ° 

cup buttermilk, £ teaspoon of soda, 1 
egg, salt, and flour enough to allow of the batter 
being dropped in spoonfuls. 

Cooked macaroni cut in pieces an 

Macaroni. , . , . , l 

men long, is a pleasant addition to soup. 



FLAVORS OB SEASONINGS. 



Without doubt "hunger is the best sauce," but it 
is not true, as many think, that a craving for variety 
is the sign of a pampered and unnatural appetite; 
even animals, whom we cannot accuse of having 
"notions," have been known to starve in the exper- 
imenter's hands rather than eat a perfectly nutri- 
tious food of whose flavor they had wearied, and pris- 
oners become so tired of a too oft repeated dish that 
they vomit at the sight and smell of it. 

What we call flavors may or may not be associated 
with a real food. Meats are rich in flavors and each 
fruit has its peculiar taste; then, there are the spices 
and aromatic herbs which are not parts of a real food, 
and it is most important that the cook should under- 
stand the art of adding these as seasonings to mild tast- 
ing foods, so as to make new dishes which shall be both 
nutritious and appetizing. The bulk of our nourish- 
ment must be made up of the flesh of a few animals, 
a half-dozen grains and as many garden vegetables, 
but the skillful cook can make of them, with the 
help of other flavors, an endless variety of dishes. 

An American traveling on the continent of Europe 

becomes acquainted with many new dishes and tastes, 

and although not all of them are to his liking, he 

must conclude that our cookery, compared for in- 

130 



Flavorings. 131 

stance, with that of the French, is very monotonous. 
To be sure, we have the advantage of the European 
in that our markets offer us a greater variety of nat- 
ural foods, especially fruits, each having a flavor of 
its own, and this fact makes us somewhat more inde- 
pendent of the art of the cook; but still we have need 
for every lesson of this sort, and especially is this the 
case with the poor, who must keep to the cheapest 
food materials, which are not in themselves rich in 
flavor. 

Spices and other flavors, when not used to excess, 
stimulate our digestive organs to appropriate more 
easily the food to which they are added; their agree- 
able odor starts the digestive juices, both in the 
mouth and in the stomach, and their flavor acting 
on the palate has the same effect. 

The more common spices and flavors, as the house- 
wife uses these terms, are salt, pepper, mustard, cin- 
namon and mace, nutmegs, cloves, ginger, caraway 
and coriander seeds, vanilla, and many volatile oils, 
such as those contained in the rind of lemons and 
oranges; and to this list we must add certain vegeta- 
bles, as the horseradish and various members of the 
onion family, the caper and nasturtium seeds, and the 
aromatic herbs. 

All these have their use and their abuse. Salt is 
hardly thought of in this list, so necessary do we con- 
sider it, and its use is well enough governed by our 
palate, though no doubt we over, rather than under 
salt our foods. Pepper is also in nearly every house- 
hold used to excess, being added to too many dishes. 
The pungent mustard should be still more carefully 



132 Flavorings. 

used; but a little of it adds relish to a salad or a meat 
sauce, and goes especially well with certain vegetables, 
as beans. Cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, we use prin- 
cipally with sweet dishes, but nutmeg makes a nice 
variety in certain meat stews and in croquettes; 
foreign cooks use it far too much to suit our taste. 
Almost our only use of the caraway and coriander 
seeds is in cookies ; try the former in a potato soup 
for variety. Ginger seems to go well with Indian 
meal in a pudding or porridge, and with molasses, 
wherever used. 

To give the uses for onions and for the aromatic 
herbs would be too long a task. The latter can all be 
bought in a dried state very cheaply, and they retain 
their flavor well; one of the most useful, however, 
parsley, is much better fresh ; by all means keep a 
little box of it growing in a window. Perhaps, after 
onion, celery is most useful as a flavor for soups and 
stews, root, stem, leaves and seeds being all valuable. 

In the flavoring of soups and stews, it is well to use 
a number of flavors, letting no one of them be promi- 
nent above the others ; on the other hand, it is well 
to have certain favorite dishes seasoned always in the 
same way ; as fresh pork with sage; summer savory 
in a bread dressing, etc. 



DRINKS AT MEALS. 



A warm drink at meals is better than a cold one, es- 
pecially in winter or at any time when we are tired; and 
the drinking of ice water cannot be too strongly con- 
demned, lowering as it does the temperature of the 
stomach and so delaying digestion. To furnish warm 
drinks for each meal, acceptable to the palate, cheap 
and harmless, is no easy question. Soups or broth 
once adopted as a part of two meals in the day, as is 
so frequently seen in Europe, and the problem is half 
solved ; indeed some of the drinks here given are really 
thin vegetable soups or porridges to which the flavor 
of salt or of sugar may be given according to taste. 

It may be concluded, after comparing 
authors on the subject, that although 
coffee somewhat retards digestion and acts as a stimu- 
lant to the nervous system, still one or even two cups 
of moderately strong coffee a day will not harm a 
healthy person. We may say, therefore, that its use 
to this extent is a question of expense only. 

Java and Mocha coffee in equal parts are considered 
the best mixture. Eio is much cheaper, and of strong, 
pure flavor. The amount to be used for moderately 
strong coffee is 1 tablespoon ( ground) to a cup. 

Chicory is considered here only as an adulterant, 
whereas in Europe a very little of it, say i teaspoon of 
183 



134 Coffee and Tea. 

the prepared chicory to a cup of ground coffee, is 
used to improve the flavor. 

Next to the quality of the coffee, it is of importance 
that it should be freshly ground and browned. If 
you buy it browned, reheat it first before grinding. 
The easiest and most economical way of making is to 
grind it very fine and put into a bag made of woven 
stuff, a white stocking top will do ; leave room to 
swell. Heat this in your coffee pot as hot as you can 
without burning. Pour on boiling water and keep it 
hot and close-covered for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Boiling coffee increases its strength, but does not 
improve its flavor. 

All authors agree as to the harmful- 
ness of strong tea, taken to excess. 

Take great pains in making tea. Use an earthen 
teapot, and have a tea cozy or a large flannel cloth to 
wrap it in. 

The water used should be between hard and soft, 
extracting the aroma but not the astringency; in 
China river water is used. If hard water must be 
used, remember that boiling increases its hardness 
and that it should be used as soon as it reaches the 
boiling point. 

Take 1 teaspoonf ul of tea to a cup, put it in the teapot 
and heat in an oven till hot, pour on 1 cup of water 
that has just come to a boil, and cover with the tea 
cozy. Let it stand 5 minutes, then fill up with the 
requisite quantity of hot water and serve immediately. 
Cocoa and choco- These both contain a good deal of 
late. nourishment, and as drinks are con- 

sidered rather heavy. As the various kinds differ 



Gruels. 135 

very much from each other, they are best prepared 
according to the recipes found on the packages. 

Milk, except for children, can hardly 

be looked upon as a drink, but diluted 

with hot water, and sweetened, it has already been 

christened for the children as "cambric tea," and it 

is no bad drink for their elders. 

A very thin gruel, slightly sweetened, 

VJrCTielS. . -i -i • l 

is a good drink. 
Oatmeal gruel. i n t a qt. of boiling water stir 2 table- 
spoons oatmeal ; boil for an hour or longer, strain 
through a coarse sieve or a cullender, add a pinch of 
salt, and a little milk and sugar. 

Wet 1 tablespoon rice flour in a little 

Rice firru©! 

cold milk, put into 1 qt. boiling water, 
salt slightly and boil till transparent. Flavor with a 
little lemon peel and sugar. 

1 qt. boiling water, 3 tablespoons 

Cornmeal gruel. , n , . . , 

corn meal washed m several waters, £ 
teaspoon salt ; add -J cup milk and a little sugar ; — a 
pinch of ginger is an improvement. 

Soak pearl or ground barley all night 

Barleygruel. \ . b , A , J , . , 

or a few hours in cold water, put into 
boiling water and cook till very soft. Season like the 
others. 
Sago g^e^ 00 * Can be made in the same way. 

All these drinks must be thin and not too highly 

seasoned. 

Brown common field corn as you 

would coffee, as brown as you can without 

burning. Grind coarsely and steep like coffee. Add 

milk and sugar, and you will find it a delicious drink. 



136 Summer Drinks. 

Cold drinks in Lemonade is too strongly acid for a 
Summer. regular drink at meals, but lemon as a 

flavor is always welcome. 

Irish moss lemon- Wash a handful of Irish moss in 5 
ade. waters, ponr over it 2 qts. boiling water 

and let it stand till cold. Strain, adding more water 
if necessary and add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten 
with lump sugar which you have rubbed on the lemons 
to obtain the oil in the skin. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. tartaric acid dis- 
solved in a pt. of hot water. When 
cold flavor with lemon zest or extract, and add the 
beaten white of an egg. When used, add 2 table- 
spoons of it to a glass of water in which you have 
dissolved £ teaspoon soda. 

Slice juicy sour apples into boiling 
water and keep warm an hour. Strain 
and sweeten. All these drinks taste best cooled (but 
not too cold) with ice. 

Sweet cider can be bottled for use 
and makes a delicious drink. Boil and 
skim till it is clear — no longer; pour hot into bottles, 
and seal. 

See also vegetable and fruit soups. 



COOKERY FOE THE SICK 



It is comparatively easy for your family to live on a 
small income while all its members are in good health, 
but you will find your resources all too slender when 
you must cater for the appetite of an invalid. 

At best, sickness is always a severe drain on the 
limited income, but here, as in every other depart- 
ment of your work, you will find that good sense and 
ingenuity will often stand you in stead for money. 

During a severe illness the food as much as the 
medicine is under the care of the physician, but when 
the danger is over and he has left you with only gen- 
eral directions, you will be more than likely in 
your bewilderment to take the advice of the first 
neighbor that drops in, although you may know that 
neither her judgment nor experience is as good as 
your own. 

Now consider first, what did the doctor mean by 
saying that the patient must be " built up," and how 
is the wasted frame to get back the fat and muscle 
that were burned away in the sickness? Chiefly, as 
you know, by the digestion of food, the proteids and 
fats and carbohydrates that we have been talking 
about, and still another, a real food although so often 
forgotten, the oxygen of the air. 

We have said that we need not concern ourselves 
about this food, that it would take care of itself; and 
so it will when we are in a state of health and living 
12 137 



138 Cookery for the Sick. 

as human beings should, for as we walk or work we 
are fed by the air without knowing it. But the case 
is quite different with a poor invalid shut up in a sick 
room, we must bring the fresh air to him with as 
much care and regularity as we do his jellies and broths. 

When we are considering what we shall feed our 
invalid, we cannot do better than keep to our old 
classification of Proteids, Fats, and Carbohydrates. 
He must have all these principles but in the most 
digestible form, for the stomach is feeble like the rest 
of the body. For this reason the proteids must be 
furnished mainly from the animal kingdom, butter 
and cream must supply the fat, and the carbohy- 
drates must bring with them as little as possible of 
the tough cellulose, and they must be so cooked as 
to be easily digested. 

First, as to the Proteids. 

Hot milk, given often in small quantities, is much 
used in the early stages of recovery and is generally 
better liked if accompanied by a bit of toasted bread 
or made into a thin gruel. 

In the first rank, also, comes soup made of lean 
beef scraped fine, covered with cold water and allowed 
to stand for an hour, then brought slowly to scalding 
heat and kept there for a short time; it is then 
strained through a coarse sieve, the small brown 
flakes being allowed to pass. Season only with salt. 
Or, broil a thick, tender steak, cut it in pieces, and 
then with a lemon squeezer press out every particle 
of juice, it may then be diluted and seasoned. 

Mutton broth is made like beef soup but should be 
cooked a longer time. Chicken broth also requires 
more cooking. 



Cookery for the Sick. 139 

Any of these soups may have a little rice or tapioca 
cooked with them. 

Eggs are an important item in the diet of an inva- 
lid, being very nutritious and, if fresh, easily diges- 
ted; do not use them at all if uncertain of their age. 

Eggs may be given raw ( see page 58 ) or soft-boiled 
(see page 59 ) or poached in hot water. An egg may 
be served in many ways and makes always a pretty 
and attractive dish. In cooking, it should never be 
submitted to a high temperature, as that makes the 
white part horny and indigestible. 

A custard made from an egg and a cup of milk and 
a half table spoon of sugar may be given early in a 
convalescence. Or use beef soup or chicken broth 
instead of the milk, and flavor with a little salt and 
pepper. These custards should be made in a pail set 
in a kettle of boiling water, the custard being stirred 
till it begins to thicken. 

Next in order, comes cooked meat. Beef is best 
of all, but let it be juicy and tender and broil or roast 
it, serving it rare* Probably a broiled mutton chop 
ranks next, although chicken, because of its delicate 
flavor will often receive the first choice. An invalid 
should not touch pork, and should be given veal or 
lamb only in the form of soup. 

As to fats, the system needs them of course, but 
fat meat should not be given, only butter or better 
still, cream. The butter must never be melted and 
soaked into the food, nor made into a sauce. 

As to the vegetable part of the diet, much care 
must be used. In the form of gruel or porridge, it 
is generally very welcome and gives the fluid part of 



140 Cookery for the Sick. 

the meal in a good form. For Indian meal and oat- 
meal porridge see page 122. Milk may take the place 
of the water. 

Toast is with good reason considered invalids' food, 
for the process of toasting turns part of the starch of 
the bread into dextrine which is digested with great 
ease. Grains may be also browned or roasted. Roast 
rice as you would coffee, cook as usual and eat with 
a little cream. Remember that bread for toast must 
be cut thin and first dried out at a little distance from 
the fire, then brought nearer and browned. You may 
then serve it as dry toast lightly buttered, or in addi- 
tion to the butter and a little salt, pour hot water or 
milk on it just before serving. 

Panada of toasted brown bread, white bread or 
crackers, is made by piling the pieces in a bowl, hav- 
ing sprinkled either salt or sugar over, and then pour- 
ing over enough boiling water to soak them well. It 
should be kept hot for an hour or more, the pieces then 
lifted out carefully on a hot saucer and served with a 
little cream and perhaps more salt or sugar. Nutmeg 
may be added. 

Rice is also a very valuable food for use in sickness, 
as it does not tax the most delicate digestion. 

Macaroni is easily digested and of high food \alue. 
It should be boiled in salted hot water till tender and 
served with a little butter or cream. Or it may be 
added to a custard and lightly baked. 

Barley, thoroughly cooked, is good food for an in- 
valid. Oatmeal must be used with caution until the 
digestion becomes stronger. 

As to vegetables proper, a mealy baked potatoe is 



Cookery for the Sick. 141 

perhaps the first to be introduced into the bill of fare; 
remove the inside, mash fine and season with a little 
salt and cream. Beware of potatoes cooked in any 
other way. 

The juice of fruits may be used early as a flavor in 
drinks, but the pulp must be discarded. A baked 
apple is safest to begin with, when the time comes to 
introduce fruit as such into the diet. 

As to the serving, use the best china, silver and 
linen that you have in the house and let exquisite 
neatness never fail. 

Eemember that surprises are delightful to a sick 
person; never let the bill of fare be known before 
hand, and if you can disguise a well known dish, so 
much the better. Beaten white of egg is a good fairy 
and serves you cheaply. Snowy white or made golden 
brown in the oven, it may top many a dish, conceal- 
ing at one time a custard, at another a mold of chicken 
jelly or even a cup of delicate apple sauce. 

The processes of cooking, if simple, an invalid loves 
to watch and the sight is often a whet to the appetite. 
Bring his gruel to him in the form of mush and thin 
it before his eyes with milk or cream, coddle his egg 
in a stone ware bowl while he eats another course, 
and by all means make his tea at the bed-side. 



BILLS OF FAKE. 



The following bills of fare are made out for a 
family of six persons, consisting of a working man, 
two women, and three children between the ages of 
six and fifteen, the size of the family and the ages 
attained being considered sufficiently near the average. 

The amount of food and the proportions in which 
the great food principles are represented approximate 
to what is demanded by standard dietaries for such a 
family. For the man of the family we have taken, as 
has been said, the one proposed by Professor Atwater 
for an American at average manual labor, for the 
women and children those proposed by Prof. Konig. 
The amounts represented by them 

Dietary adopted. 

are : 

Proteid, Pats. ^bohy- 

Man _ 125 gms. 125 gms. 400 gms. 

2 women (each) 96 " 48 " 400 " 

3 children, 6 to 15 yrs. ?6 l( u (( 320 (t 

(each) 

Sum total is 545 gms. 353 gms. 2210 gms. 

Or translated into oz 19.19oz. 12.42oz. 78.03 oz. 

In calculating these amounts we have followed 
almost entirely the analytical tables compiled by Prof. 
Konig. 

Meat is reckoned without bone and moderately 
fat, and in nearly all the bills of fare the amount of 

142 



Bills of Fare. 143 

proteids enough exceeds that required by the dietary 
adopted so that we can afford this loss. Flour is of 
medium quality, eggs are reckoned without shell, and 
milk as weighing 34.4 oz. per qt. 

As to prices, they are mainly those of Baltimore 
markets, corrected in some cases by those of New York. 
Eggs are reckoned as costing in the spring 18 cts., 
in Fall and Winter 25 cts., canned fruit is put down 
at the price paid for the fruit in Summer. The cost 
of raw material is given in all cases, bread being 
reckoned at the cost of the flour contained in it. 

In three different seasons, four days in succession 
are selected, these days being the ones considered most 
trying to the housekeeper — Saturday, Sunday, Monday 
and Tuesday, and this gives an opportunity to show 
how the food should be planned and cooked ahead. 
It is intended that on Saturday the food for Sunday 
should be cooked as nearly as possible, as the Sunday 
dinner should be a good one but requiring a minimum 
of labor on that day; the dinner on Monday should 
be such as can be cooked on the back of the stove and 
in the oven. 

The recipes will have to be varied a little according 
to advice given in appropriate places as to economy, 
e. g., substituting beef fat for butter, or adding it 
when skim milk is used instead of whole milk. 

It is intended that each day there shall be a small 
surplus of money for purchasing seasonings and 
flavors. 

INTRODUCTION TO BILLS OF FARE, CLASS I. 

(To the Mother of the Family.) 
In the general introduction the writer has stated a 



144 Introductory Letter. 

few principles that should guide us in choosing our 
food. We have learned that to keep us in good health 
and working order we ought to have a certain amount 
of what is best furnished by meat, eggs, milk and 
other animal products, and that we must also have 
fats as well as what is given us in grains and vegetables. 

But now our work has only just begun for we are to 
furnish these food principles in the shape of cooked 
dishes to be put on the family table three times a day, 
and the dishes must not only be nourishing but they 
must taste good, and there must be plenty of variety 
from day to day; and last — and this is the hardest 
point of all — we are to try to do this for the sum of 
18 cents per person daily. 

I am going to consider myself as talking to the 
mother of a family who has six mouths to feed, and 
no more money than this to do it with. Perhaps this 
woman has never kept accurate accounts and does not 
know whether she spends more or less than this sum. 
She very likely has her " flush " days and her " poor " 
days according to the varying amounts of the family 
earnings, and it may be a comfort to her to know that 
if she could average these days and plan a little bet- 
ter, she can feed her family nicely on this sum. 

A few facts as to what the writer knows to have been 
done in this line will not be amiss. I knew a family 
of 6 belonging to one of the professional classes, half, 
grown people, and half, children, that lived for a 
year on an average of 11 cents per person daily, and 
no one would have said that they did not live well 
enough; they had meat about four days out of the 
seven, there was always cake on their supper table, 
and they used plenty of fruit. 



Introductory Letter. 145 

Here is an average bill of faro. Breakfast -milk 
toast fried potatoes, coffee; dinner-soup made of 
shank of beef fried liver, rice and potatoes; supp 

cake. Next day there was pressed beef made from 
the soup meat chopped and flavored, and next day 
there was cheap fish nicely fried. The head of this 
household was a skillful economist, absolutely no mis- 

wS S /T rf 6 iU ° 00king ' and not a 80 ™P was 
wasted, she had a long list of simple dishes at her 

command and she especially studied variety. "I 
abandon even a favorite dish for weeks," she said 
if any one tires of it." I gi ve this as a sample of 
what I know to have been done by a highly respect- 
able family m a city of small size in one of our east- 
ern states. 

It must be mentioned that the price on which this 
family lived m comfort could not have been as low as 
it was but for one great help; they had a small gar- 
den that furnished green vegetables and a little fruit 
But then almost every family has some special advan- 
tage that would lower the rate somewhat; one buys 
butter or fruit advantageously of friends in the coun- 
try, another can buy at wholesale when certain staples 
are cheapest, still another may be able to keep a few 
fowls and so on. Numerous instances could be 
brought to prove that the food for a family can be pur- 
chased in a raw condition for the sum per head for 
which we have undertaken to buy it, and that by skill 
in cooking, flavoring and giving right variety, a health- 
ful and very acceptable diet can be furnished, thou-h 
it cannot, of course, contain luxuries 
IB 



146 Time and Utensils Required, 

Another thing, when I speak of a woman who is to 
buy the food of a family for 13 cents apiece daily, 
I have in mind the wife of a man who earns this sum 
himself, the wife having her time to attend to the 
housework and children. If a woman helps earn, as 
in a factory, doing most of her housework after she 
comes home at night, she must certainly have more 
money than in the first case in order to accomplish 
the same result, for she must buy her bread already 
baked and can only cook those dishes that take the 
least time. 

I shall take for granted that you have the kitchen 
utensils described on page 20; if not, buy them, be- 
cause, you cannot afford to do without them. Food 
is very expensive compared with pots and pans ; you 
must not spoil food for lack of the right things to 
cook it in. 

I only ask you in advance to try the recipes I shall 
give and to try to lay aside your prejudices against 
dishes to which you are not accustomed, as soups and 
cheese dishes for instance. You cannot afford to 
reject anything that will vary your diet, for many 
good tasting things you cannot buy. 

I know it is hard for a busy woman to give to her 
cooking a bit more time than will " just do," but if 
you make it a rule to determine the night beforehand 
just what you will cook on the following day, no mat- 
ter how simple the food may be, you will gain this 
result ; with the materials at your disposal you will 
put before your family much better food, and they 
will call you a good cook and think that no family 
need live better than they; and this impression will be 



Buying of Meat. 147 

made principally from your having the right variety. 
Let us understand, to begin with, that it is your 
business in life just now to conquer this food question 
as it affects your family. Just as the business man 
must watch the market and take advantage of a half 
cent a pound on an article, that he may successfully 
compete with his neighbor, so you must be on the 
alert to use every possible advantage. It is a struggle 
in which energy and calculation will tell for a great 
deal, and you will have solid enjoyment in every point 
that you gain. 

In buying meat your saving cannot be so much in 
quantity as in quality. Try to learn the different parts 
of an animal, and to distinguish between meat from a 
fat ox and that from a lean one, for, as we have explain- 
ed, the former has less water in it, and why should you 
pay good money for that which nature gives you free ? 
In winter, try to buy meat ahead so that you can 
make it tender by keeping it, and you will notice, too, 
that the larger the piece you buy the smaller is the 
per cent of bone you get with it. The per cent of 
bone in the whole animal, as in the case of an ox, is 
not more than 10 or 11 per cent, but the buyer of a 
small piece of meat often gets twice that proportion. 
As we have said again and again in these pages, the 
low-priced or tougher parts have as much nutriment 
for you as the rib roast which is beyond your purse. 
Choose often the fat middle rib and cook it long 
and slowly ; buy the neck and scrag of mutton, and 
make a stew with vegetables : buy half a calf's head, 
and see what a fine soup you can make of it. Have 
beef's liver now and then, and tripe, rather than put 



148 Grains and Vegetables. 

your money into sausage of doubtful quality. By all 
means buy fish when it is cheap, catfish, for instance, 
which are excellent fried. Keep suet always on hand 
and use instead of butter, as has been directed. 

No one need tell you how valuable salt pork and 
bacon are for you, — the only danger is that you will 
use too much of them. 

In buying eggs, you must be governed by the 
price; in winter use as few as possible, and even in 
the spring when they are cheapest, remember that 
they are not as cheap as the lowest priced cuts of 
meat from fat animals. But when they cost only 
15 cents a dozen you can well disregard any small 
comparison of nutritive values, in consideration of 
their high worth in furnishing variety; you can 
afford to use them now and then in the place of meat 
and in making the various egg dishes. 

Of the value of cheese as a regular dish to take the 
place of meat, you can read in another part of this 
essay. Buy it once a week at least, the skim variety, 
if you cannot afford the others, and grate or cook it 
according to the recipes given. 

Try to find a reliable milkman and buy skim milk 
at half the price of full, and use it for all cooking pur- 
poses, keeping full milk, and, if possible, a little of 
the cream, for coffee. 

Now let us take the vegetable part of your diet. 
You must keep on hand every kind of 
flour and grain that is not too expen- 
sive ; be thankful that wheat flour is so good and so 
cheap, it will be your best friend. If you are not 
already skillful in using it in bread and other doughs, 



Flavorings. 149 

you will waste your materials and make mistakes at 
first, but there is nothing for you but to become mis- 
tress of this department of cookery. Use bread freely 
in all the bread dishes, learn how to make every one. 
You will use buckwheat for cakes, rice for puddings, 
barley in soups, oatmeal and cornmeal for mushes, and 
you must learn to use them all in as many ways as possi- 
ble. The grains are cheaper foods for us than vegeta- 
bles, although dried peas, beans and lentils follow hard 
upon them. Even the potato, which may be called 
our favorite vegetable, is more expensive than wheat 
flour, if we are talking only of food values. 

Except in the height of their season, have noth- 
ing to do with green vegetables, at least not under 
the impression that they are cheap; if you buy them, 
know that you are paying for flavors and variety, 
rather than for food. But even in the early spring, 
buy plenty of such vegetables as onions, carrots, pars- 
ley and other green herbs for your soups and stews. 
When you go for a walk in the country, be sure to 
bring home mint and sorrel- in your pocket ; the for- 
mer will make you a nice meat sauce, the latter a 
delightful flavor in soup. It will be perfectly easy 
for you to grow in a window box that delicious herb, 
parsley, and have it always fresh. 

For a low purse, there is no help so great as a 
knowledge of flavorings. When we remember that 
we can live on bread, beans, peas and a little cheap 
meat and fat the year round if we can only make it 
"go down," we shall realize the importance of such 
additions as rouse the appetite; there is room here for 
all your skill and all your invention. Always make a 



150 Bills of Fare. 

cheap but nutritious dish inviting in appearance; es- 
pecially does this influence the appetites of children 
who are delighted with a very plain cake if only a few 
raisins or some sugar appear on the top. 

The Bills of Fare on pages 146 to 158, where 78 cents 
covers the cost of food for a family of 6 per day, and 
where the amount of food is carefully weighed and esti- 
mated, is meant only to suggest to you how in a few 
cases your food problem can be solved. You can, no 
doubt, spend the money in ways that will better suit 
the tastes of your family, but I beg you to exam- 
ine anew your favorite dishes to see if they are as 
nutritious as they should be for their price. Remem- 
ber that the Proteid column is the one that you must 
look to most carefully because it is furnished at the 
most expense, and it is very important that it should 
not fall below the figures I have given. If, for in- 
stance, you should economize in meat in order to buy 
cake and pastry, this column would suffer at the ex- 
pense of the other two and your family would be 
under nourished. 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 151 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS I. 



For family of six, average price 78 cents per day, or 13 cents 
per person. 

Saturday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Flour Pancakes, Bread Soup (p. 20). 

(p. 103) with Sugar Syrup. Beef neck Stew 

Coffee. Noodles (p. 90). 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Supper. 

Browned Flour Soup, with Fried Bread (p. 121). 
Toast and Cheese (page 62, No. 1). 

Prntpirte Vat* Carbo- Cost 

totems. .bats, hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

J^lb. Rice 64 .08 6.12 4 

lib. Sugar .... 15.43 7 

H lb.Fat Cheese 3.00 3.48 .24 11^ 

2 qts. Skim Milk 2.12 .48 3.30 8 

21b. Flour 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

]4 qt. Whole Milk 58 .62 .83 3% 

2Eggs 34 .32 .... 3 

2^1bs. Beef neck.. 8.40 2.20 .... 20 

961b. Suet.... 5.88 .... 3 

fc lb. Coffee.. — - — - 3f 

m lbs. Bread 3.36 .28 29.06 8& 

Total 22.28 13.82 77.85 77A 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



152 



Bills of Fare, Class 1. 



Sunday, May. 

Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Stuffed Beef's Heart (p. 48). 

Coffee. Potatoes stewed 

with Milk. 
Dried Apple Pie (p. 108). 
Bread and Cheese. 
Corn Coffee (p. 135). 

Supper. 

Noodle Soup (from Saturday, p. 91). 

Broiled Herring. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. Og^ °3? 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 
Heart of Fat Ox > 

weighing 2 lbs. } - 5 ' 76 »■» -- 10 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.22 9^ 

%lb. Sugar .... 11.88 5 

lqt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

% lb. Dried Apples 10 .... 4.50 6 

l^lb.Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

12 Smoked Herring (1 pound). 3.36 1.36 .... 10 

J41b. Suet 9.23 .... 2 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 .... 6.62 2*4 

J41b. Butter 3.33 .... G\i 

M lb. Skim Cheese. 2.40 LOT 40 4 

Tea .... .... 2 

^lb. Coffee .... .... 3f 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

Total 21.20 14.39 77.08 *76~ 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



153 



Monday, May. 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal Mush, with 

Milk and Sugar. 

Bread. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Pea Soup (p. 117). 

Mutton Stew (p. 52). 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Bread Pancakes (p. 93). 

Fried Bacon. 

Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

2 Eggs 34 

%lb. Oatmeal 1.74 

%\b. Coffee.... 

yiVo. Sugar 

iy 2 qts. Skim Milk 1.59 

%lb. Bacon 36 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

41bs. Bread 3.84 

lqt. Whole Milk 1.16 

3 lbs. Shoulder of Mutton 8.16 

1 lb. Peas, Dried 3.68 

J^lb. Flour 96 

Total, 23.11 

Required 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 
.32 

.72 



.36 



1.24 

2.88 
.32 
.12 

15.88 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 
oz. 



7.80 



7.92 
1.48 

13.24 

33.20 

1.66 

8.32 
5.72 

80.34 

78.03 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 
3 

3M 
3f 
3^ 
6 
9 
5 

9i 
7 

21 
5 

77.3 

78 



154 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Tuesday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush and Milk. Fried Catfish 

Buttered Toast. with Mint Sauce (p. 73). 

Coffee. Fried Potatoes. 

Bread. 

Supper. 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. 107). 

Broiled Salt Pork. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Prntpids "Fifq Carbo- Cost 

Proteicis. *ats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

lib. Oatmeal 2.32 '96 10.40 5 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

lqt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

Wi lbs. Catfish 7.00 .20 .... 17^ 

lfc&lbs. Farina 2.50 ... 18.22 7^ 

2egg-s 34 .32 .... 3 

4^1bs. Bread 4.32 .36 37.36 10^ 

Coffee .... .... 3f 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 .... 6.62 2^ 

%Vo. Salt Pork 30 8.00 .... n\b 

J^lb. Butter. 1.67 .... 3J^ 

Y± lb. Sugar .... 3.96 1% 

Tea .... .... 2 

Total 19.64 12.98 79.86 74f 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



155 



Saturday, September. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Soda Biscuit. Pea Soup (p. 117) 

Baked Potatoes with Irish Stew. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. Bread. 
Cocoa. 

Supper. 

Corn Mush and Molasses. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. ,$£&,. 

oz. oz. oz. 

1 lb. Dried Peas. 3.68 .32 8.32 

2 lbs. Scrag: of Mutton 5.44 1.92 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 .... 9.94 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 

2 lbs. Cornmeal 3.14 .90 19.50 

i41b. Sugar .... 3.96 

\i lb. Fat Cheese.. 1.00 1.56 .08 

lqt. Whole Milk. 1.16 1.23 1.65 

^lb. Buttei .-.- 3.33 

l\i lbs.. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 

Mlb. Suet 3.92 

J4 lb. Molasses -— 2.48 

Cocoa Shells — 

Tea 

Total. 21.14 13.78 87.99 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 

5 
16 

m 

6li5 
6 

m 

m 

7 

637 

m 

2 

2^ 



71fc 

78 



156 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Sunday, September. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal and Milk. Broiled Beef's Liver. 

Bread and Butter. Boiled Potatoes and Carrots 

Cocoa. with Fried Onions (p. 116). 

Bread and Cheese. 

Supper. 

Lentil Soup with Fried Bread (p. 118). 

Smoked Herring. 

Bread. Barley Porridge (p. 122). 

Proteid, Fat, ,$£- Cost 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

1\£ lbs. Beef 's Liver 4.80 .90 .... 15 

3 lbs. Potatoes 90 .... 9.94 3^ 

lib. Carrots .... 1.44 1*4 

l}i lbs. Oatmeal 3.48 1.44 15.00 7H 

M lb. Lentils 2.04 .10 4.32 5 

1^ qt. Whole Milk 1.74 1.85 2.48 lOJ^ 

^lb.Sug-ar .... 7.92 3^ 

M lb. Pearl Barley 44 .00 2.80 2 

M lb. Suet 3.92 .... 2 

4 lbs. Bread.... 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

Smoked Herring- ( 8 oz. ) 1.08 .08 .... 5 

Mlb. Butter 3.33 .... &A 

M lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 1.10 .... 3% 

Cocoa Shells .... .... 2 

Total 19.98 13.88 77.70 70 T n 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



157 



Monday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Fried Bacon. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Giblet Soup (p. 58). 

Baked Potatoes with 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Bread. 



Supper. 

Codfish Balls (p. 57). 

Cheese. 

Bread. Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 

Giblets 2.20 

3 lbs. Potatoes. .96 • 

%lb. Bacon 36 

4J^lbs. Bread... 4.32 

^lb. Sugar .... 

% lb. Fat Cheese 3. 

1 lb. Salt Codfish 4.80 

Tea... 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

% lb. Coffee.. 

Total 19.84 

Required 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 
.64 
.12 



9.60 



.16 



1.23 



15.59 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 
23.30 

9.94 



7.92 
.24 



1.65 



50.41 

rs.03 



Cost 

in 

Cents. 

10 



IOtw 

8 
2 

7 

76^ 



1,58 



Bills of Fare, Class L 



Tuesday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Bread. Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Corned Beef 

with Horseradish Sauce. 

Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 

Barley Porridge (p. 122). 



1)£ lbs. Corn Beef . 


Supper. 

Pea Soup. 
Yeast Biscuit and I 
Stewed Fruit. 

Proteids. 
oz. 
6.96 


5 utter. 

Fats. 

oz. 

1.54 

.48 

.33 

.38 

6.40 

3.33 

1.96 

.13 

.34 

.63 

15.39 
13.43 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 

3. 

33.88 

6.63 

8.33 
39.06 

5.73 

1.65 

.83 

7.93 

85. 

78.03 


Cost 
in 

Cents. 

15 


3 lbs. Cabbage 

3 lbs. Flour 

3 lbs. Potatoes 

1 lb. Dried Peas ... 


80 

3.84 

.64 

3.68 


6 
6 

5 


3^ lbs. Bread 


3.36 


82V 
6 

1 

4 


Mi lb. Bacon 

% lb. Butter 


.34 


% lb. Suet 

H lb. Pearl Barley. 


88 


1 qt. Skim Milk 


.. . 1.06 


4 


lpt. Whole Milk... 


.58 


94 

'3 4 

3 


% lb. Coffee 




J^lb. Sugar 

Fruit. 

Total 

Kequired 


33.04 

19.19 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



159 



Saturday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Corn Bread (p. 103). 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Browned Flour Soup (p. 121). 
Stewed Mutton. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Bread. 



Supper. 

Baked Beans. Bread. 

Apple Dumplings (p. 108), 

with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 

Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 
3 lbs. Neck of Mutton 8.16 

3 lbs. Potatoes.... 98 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 

lib. Flour 1.92 

2 lbs. Corn Meal 3.14 

lib. Beans 3.68 

%Va. Sugar 

% lb. Bacon 24 

% lb. Suet 

% lb. Coffee .... 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

Apples 

Tea 

Total 23.10 

Required 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 

in 

Cents. 


2.88 





24 


.32 


9.94 
33.20 


m 

^ 


.24 


11.44 


3 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.32 


8.56 


5 


6.44 


7.92 


3^ 
6 


1.96 
1.23 


1.65 


1 

35 

7 
2 
2 






14.59 


95.11 


7^1 

78 


12.42 


78,03 



160 



Bills of Fare, Class L 



Sunday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Codfish. 

Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 



ir. 

Potato and Onion Salad. 

Broiled Salt Pork. Bread. 

Corn Mush with Pudding Sauce (p. 

Proteids. Fats, 

oz. oz. 

2 lbs. Corn Meal 3.14 1.20 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 

lpt. Whole Milk... 58 .62 

J^lb.Sugar 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 .24 

1 lb. Salt Codfish 4.80 

\i lb. Butter .... 6.66 

M lb. Skim Cheese 1.20 .53 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

\i lb. Salt Pork 12 3.20 

M lb. Suet ....-.._.. 3.92 

% lb. Flour 1.44 .18 

1 Sheep's Head, assumed to 

contain ljg lbs. meat 4.08 1.44 

Onions 

Cocoa Shells... 

Coffee.. 

Total -I 20.58 18.23 

Required 19.19 12.42 



Dinner. 

Sheep's Head Stew 

with Soda Biscuit Dumplings 

Baked Potatoes. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 

Cocoa. 



112). 



Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents. 


22.40 


6 


1.65 


4 


.83 


m 


7.92 


m 


24.90 


6xff 





8 





12fc 


.20 


2 


13.25 


5 





3 



8.58 



79.73 
78.03 



2M 



Bills of Fare, Class J. 



161 



Monday, January. 
Breakfast. 

Fried Mush and Molasses. 
Bread. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Soup (from Boiled Beef) 

with Macaroni. 

Boiled Beef Flank 

with Mustard Sauce, 

Bean Puree. 

Bread. 



Boiled Potatoes with 

Butter Gravy. 

Dried Apple Roly Poly Pudding (p. 108). 

Bread. Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

2 lb. Beef Flank 6.72 

lib. Beans 3.68 

]4 lb. Dried Apples, 10 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 

2 lbs. Corn Meal 3.14 

l^lbs. Flour .. 2.88 

34 lb. Butter 

14 lb. Suet 

J4 lb. Molasses 

Yi lb. Sugar 

31bs. bread 2.88 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

% lb. Coffee. 

Tea.. 

\<i lb. Macaroni .36 

Total 21.56 

Required 19.19 

1-4 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


1.76 





16 


.32 


8.56 


5 





4.50 


6 





6.62 


2% 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.36 


17.16 


4^ 


3.33 





6& 


3.92 




2 





2.48 


2% 




7.92 


3^ 


.24 
1.23 


24.90 
1.65 


6 T 9 ff 

7 



.02 

12.38 
12.42 



3.06 

99.25 

78.03 



m 

78 



162 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Tuesday, January. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fried Potatoes. Browned Farina Soup with 

Bread. Toast (p. 121). 

Coffee. Stewed Mutton, with 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Supper. 

Bean Soup. 

Milk Toast. 

Tea. 

Protpids V»U Carbo- Cost 

jroteias *ats hydrates in 

oz - oz - oz. Cents 

2^ lbs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 .... 20 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

V& lbs. Beans 5.52 .48 12.84 7^ 

\i lb. Butter 3.33 .... 6J4 

^ lb. Suet .... 7.84 .... 4 

M lb. Sugar .... .... 7.92 3^ 

3 lbs. Potatoes .96 .... 9.94 V/± 

lHlbs. Flour. 2.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 6 T 9 ff 

Mlb. Farina 42 .... 3.03 1% 

Mlb Coffee — - 3| 

Tea ---- 

Total ---- 21.68 16.12 79.09 75 

Required." 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class II 163 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS II. 



For family of six. Average price $1.26 per day, or 18 cts. 
per person. 

The bills of fare in this class will not be given in detail. 
Taking those given for Class I as a basis, it is expected that 
certain luxuries will be added and a better quality of food 
used; the quantities of Proteid, Fat and Carbohydrate will 
then not be lowered, which is the point of greatest importance. 



164 Bills of Fare, Class III. 

BILLS OF FAKE, CLASS III. 



For family of six. Average price, $1.38 per day, or 33 
cents per person. 

Saturday, May. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oranges. Beef Soup with 

Egg Omelet on Egg Sponge (p. 128). 

Toast. Macaroni with Cheese (p. 90). 

Boiled Rice with Dandelion Greens. 

Milk and Sugar. Bread. 
Coffee. 



T. 



Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 
Meat Croquettes (of soup meat) (p. 49). 
Graham Bread and Butter. 
Tea. Cake. 



Proteids 
oz. 

lib. Rice 1.28 

^6 lb. Sugar 

6 Oranges 

% lb. Macaroni 1.08 

41bs. Bread 3.84 

2 lbs. Flour 3.84 

^lb. Coffee 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

10 Eggs 1.70 

2^1bs. Meat 8.40 

% lb. Butter 

J61b. FatCheese 2.00 

Sour Cream and flavors for 

soup 

Tea 

Total 24.46 

Required 19.19 



Fats 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates 


in 




oz. 


Cents 


.16 


12.24 


8 





7.92 


m 








10 





9.18 


vm 


.32 


33.22 


9k 


.48 


22.88 


6 







3| 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


1.60 


.... 


15 


2.20 


.... 


20 


9.99 





im 


2.32 


.16 


6 


19^53 


88.90 


2 
136^ 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



165 



Sunday, May. 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal Mush with sugar 
and milk. 
Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Salad of Cold Beans and 

Lettuce 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Cocoa. 

Bread. 



Supper. 

Rice Pancakes (p. 93), with 

Sugar Syrup. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

% lb. Oatmeal 1.74 

M lb. Coffee 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

% lb. Butter 

lib. Ham 3.84 

VSlb.Suet 

12 Eggs 2.04 

Cocoa 

31bs. Potatoes 96 

41bs. Bread 3.84 

M lb.Lettuce 10 

1 lb. Beans 3.68 

Rhubarb 

M lb. Rice 64 

lj^lbs. Flour . 2.88 

Tea. . 

Salad Dressing 

Total 22.04 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates 


in 


oz. 


Cents. 


0.72 


7.80 


3£ 








3| 





15.84 


7 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


9.99 





18% 


5.84 





25 


1.96 





1 


1.92 





18 








4 





9.94 


m 


.32 


33.20 


^ 





.20 


5 


.32 


8.55 


5 






4 


.08 


6.12 


4 


.36 


17.16 


4H 


.... 


.... 


2 
5 


23.97 


102.11 


137 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



166 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oranges. Roast Mutton and Bread 

Milk Toast. Dressing (p. 106). 

Coffee. Mashed Potatoes. 

Corn Mush with Sugar 

and Milk. 
Soda Cream (p. 136). 

Supper. 

Parsnip Soup (p. 119), with Yeast Dumplings (p. 128). 

Bread and butter. 

Sponge Cake. Tea. 

Protpids Fats Carbo- Cost 

Proteids *ats hydrates in 

oz - oz - oz. Cents 

3^ lbs. Bread 3.36 .28 29.06 8 T V 

3 lbs. Mutton 8.16 2.88 .... 48 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

lj^lbs. Sugar .... 23.76 10J^ 

lib. Flour 1.92 .24 11.44 3 

\i lb. Butter 6.66 .... 12^ 

%Vo. Coffee -... .... 3§ 

6 Oranges — 10 

21b. Cornmeal 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

4Eggs 68 .64 .... 6 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 .... 9.94 W\ 

Tea — - .... 2 

SodaCreaui — 3 

Parsnips — 6 

Total 20.54 14.36 99.90 136J4 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



167 



Breakfast. 

Buttered Toast. 

Coffee. 

Canned Fruit. 



Tuesday, May. 

Dinner. 

Sorrel Soup (p. 120.) 

Fried Catfish. 

Noodles (p. 90.) 

Bread. 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 

Supper. 

Fried Mush. 
Stewed Rhubarb. 
Fresh Rusks and Butter (p. 98). 
Tea. 



107). 



Canned Fruit 


Proteids. 
oz. 


Fats, 
oz. 

1.20 
.24 

1.86 
.48 

.48 
13.33 

.08 

3.92 

.24 

.64 

22.47 
12.42 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 

22.40 
24.90 

2.50 

3.30 

22.88 
7.92 
6.12 

90.02 
78.03 


Cost 

• in 

Cents. 

15 

6 

8 

8 

6 
25 

3^ 

5 

4 

2 
18 

3f 

6 

2 

12*1 3 

138 


2 lbs. Corn Meal.... 


3.14 


3 lbs. Bread 


2 88 


1^ qts. Whole Milk 


1.74 


2 qts. Skim Milk 


2.12 


Rhubarb 

2 lbs. Flour 


3 84 


lib. Butter 

J^ib. Sugar 




Sorrel &c. for Soup 

M lb. Rice 


64 


Mlb. Suet 

3 lbs. Fresh Fish... 


8 00 


% lb. Coffee 




4 Eggs 


68 


Tea 




Total. 


23 04 


Required.. 


19.19 



168 



Bills of Fare, Class III, 



Saturday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Hominy Mush with 

Sugar Syrup 

Stewed Pears. 

Toasted Crackers. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Plum Soup (p. 125). 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

Boiled Green Corn. 

Turnips and Potatoes (p. 

Bread. 

Apple Pie (p. 109). 

Shipper. 



116). 



Irish Stew (p. 52). 

Biscuit and Butter. 

Yeast Doughnuts (p. 99). 

Tea. 

Proteidg. Fats, 

oz. oz. 

llb.Hominy 1.58 .60 

Pears and Plums 

2 lbs. Bread.... 1.93 .16 

^lb. Crackers 50 

2 lbs. Beef Steak 6.72 1.76 

1 doz. Green Corn 

2 lbs. Potatoes , 64 

Apples 

llb.Turnips 15 

31bs. Flour 5.76 .64 

^lb. Suet. 1.96 

lib. Mutton 2.72 .96 

Mlb. Butter 9.99 

2 Eggs 34 .32 

Tea 

1 lb. Sugar 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 

^lb. Coffee 

Total 20.83 17.62 

Required.... 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents. 


11.20 


5 





5 


16.60 


4 


4.15 


5 





36 





15 


6.62 


2^ 





4 


1.12 


oA 


34.32 


9 





1 





8 





im 





4 





2 


15.84 


7 


1.65 


7 


.... 


3| 


91.50 


138 1 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 169 



Sunday, September. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Sour Milk Pancakes with Green Corn Soup (p. 120). 

Sugar Syrup (p. 103). Fricaseed Chicken (p. 57). 

Sausage. Bread. Potatoes and Carrots (p. 116). 

Cucumbers. with Fried Onions. 

Coffee. Bread. 

Supper. 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. 108. 
Water Toast. 
Radishes. 
Tea. 

Proteids. 
oz. 

Radishes 

lib. Sausage 2.32 

% lb. Sugar 

lj^qts. Whole Milk... 1.74 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 

}£ doz. Green Corn 

An Old Chicken ( 3 lbs. ) 9.00 

2 lbs. Potatoes 60 

\i lb. Carrots 

Cucumbers 

1^ lb. Flour 2.88 

^lb. Farina 84 

\i lb. Butter 

lqt. Sour Milk 1.06 

Coffee 

Tea 

2 Eggs 34 



Total 21.66 

Required 19.19 

15 



Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Cost 
in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 
3 
12 


6.00 




.... 


9.90 


m 


1.85 


2.48 


ioh 


.24 


24.90 


6 T V 


.... 





7H 


1.90 





50 





6.60 


m 


.... 


.72 


1 
2 


.36 


17.16 


.... 


6.00 


2H 


3.33 




<V4 


.24 


1.65 


4 


.... 


.... 


3f 

2 

4 


.32 





14.24 


69.41 


127f 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



170 



Bills of Fare, Glass III. 



Monday, September . 



Dinner. 



Codfish Balls. 






Roast Beef. 


Bread and Butter. 






Baked Potatoes. 


Coffee. 






Stewed Tomatoes. 


Stewed Apples. 






Lemonade. 








Bread 






Supper. 








Berry Roly Poly (p. 108). 








Cheese. 










Bread and Butter. 








Tea. 










Proteids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Cost 
in 




oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 


% lb. Codfish 


3.60 






6 


4 lbs. Potatoes 


1.28 




13.24 


5 


3 lbs. Bread... 


2.88 


.24 


24.90 


6tV 


% lb. Butter 




9.99 





im 


2 qts. Whole Milk 


2.32 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


1 lb. Sugar 






15.84 


7 


23^ lbs. Beef 


8.40 


2.20 




40 


3 lbs. Tomatoes 







4.00 


5 


Lemons 










7 


1% lb. Flour 


.... 3.88 


.36 


17.16 


4*4 


^ lb. Fat Cheese 


2.00 


2.32 


.18 


7}£ 


%\\). Coffee 








3| 


Tea.. 








2 


Fruit 











10 


Total 


24.36 


17.57 


78.62 


137 


Required 


19.19 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 171 



Tuesday, September. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Broiled Mackerel. Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 

Stewed Potatoes. Boast Mutton 

Bread and Butter. with Bread Stuffing. 

Coffee. Boiled Beets. 

Bread Pudding (p. Ill, No. 2). 

Supper. 

Apple Fritters (p. 114), 

with Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 



Proteids. Fats. 



Carbo- Cost 
hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

m lbs. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 Qi 

4Eg-gs 68 .64 .... 8y 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

llb.Sugar .... 15.84 7 

J^lb.Suet. 1.96 .... 1 

2J^lbs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 .... 40 

21bs. Beets — - 3.00 5 

1 36 lbs. Salt Mackerel 4.56 3.00 .... 18% 

1}4 lbs. Potatoes 48 .... 4.96 l T 9 <y 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9£ 

^lb. Butter 6.66 .... 12^ 

Sour Cream and Apples -. — 8 

^lb.Coffee — - ---. 3f 

Tea — . — - 2 

Total. 2L56 17!80 79.46 135^ 

Required „„„,„,. 19,19 12.42 78.03 138 



172 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes and 

Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 



Saturday, January. 

Dinner. 

Roast Fresh Pork, with 

Apple Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Indian Pudding (p. 110). 

Bread. 

Supper. 



Herring and Potato Salad. 

Lentils, with Prunes (p. 116). 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 

1% lbs. Corn Meai 2.28 

lib. Butter - .... 

% lb. Sugar... 

lqt. Whole Milk..- 1.16 

Apples 

2H lbs. Fresh Pork 8.00 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 

2 Eggs .34 

lqt. Skim Milk 1.16 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 

^lb.Lentils 2.04 

J^ lb. Prunes 15 

% lb. Coffee 

Tea ---- 

6 Herrings 1.68 

Salad Dressing — 

Total 23.69 

Required 19.19 



Fats. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 


.64 


23.20 


10 


.91 


16.80 


4^ 


13.33 





25 





11.88 


W\ 


1.23 


1.65 


7 

4 

37^ 


2.80 


'.'". 


.... 


9.94 


3£ 


.32 




4i 


.24 


1.65 


4 


.24 


24.90 


•A 


.16 


4.32 


5 




3.80 


5 


.... 


.... 


3| 
2 
5 
5 


.68 


.... 








20.55 


98.14 


137^ 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 173 



Sunday, January. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Cold Roast Pork, 

Fried Potatoes. Noodles (p. 90). 

Coffee. Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 
Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 
Corn Coffee (p. 135). 

Supper. 

Potato Soup (p. 118). Grated Cheese. 

Bread and butter. 

Raised Cake (p. 98). Canned Fruit. 

Tea. 

Proteids 
oz. 

H lb. Fat Cheese 1.08 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

2 lbs. Flour 3.84 

4 Eggs 68 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.0G 

H lb. Butter 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 lbs. Fresh Pork . 6.40 

21bs. Cabbage .80 

J^lb. Rice 64 

31bs. Bread 2.88 

Corn (dry grain) 

Canned Fruit -.- 

Jglb. Coffee 

Tea 

Total 20.98 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents 


.95 


.06 


3% 





13.24 


5 


.48 


22.88 


6 


.64 





sy 3 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


.24 


1.65 


4 


9.99 





ISM 





15.42 


7 


2.24 


.... 


30 





1.60 


8 


.08 


6.12 


4 


.24 


24.90 


frfr 








2 







10 








3f 


.... 


.... 


2 


17.32 


89.17 


133 tV 
138 


12.42 


78.03 



174 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Sausage. 

Coffee. 

Apple Sauce. 



Dinner. 

Pea Soup (p. 118). 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Barley Gruel (p. 121). 



Supper. 



Potato Soup with Egg and Bread Balls (p. 128). 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Canned Fruit. Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 

lib. Sausage 2.32 

21bs. Beef 6.72 

3 lbs. Potatoes .96 

2 lbs. Tomatoes (canned at 

home) 19 

31bs. Bread 2.88 

2 Eggs 34 

J^lb. Barley 88 

lqt. Whole Milk 1.16 

J^lb. Sugar 

1 lb. Dried Peas 3.68 

M lb. Butter 

Canned Fruit 

MVa. Coffee 

Tea „ 

Apples 

Total 22.17 

Required 19.19 



Fats 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 




oz. 


Cents 


.64 


23.20 


10 


6.00 





12 


1.76 





32 




9.94 


m 




3.50 


6 


.24 


24.90 


*ft 


.32 





4i 


.12 


5.72 


4 


1.23 


1.65 


7 





7.92 


m 


.32 


8.32 


5 


6.66 





12^ 






10 


.... 


.... 


3f 

2 
5 








17.29 


85.15 


1271 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



175 



Tuesday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Graham Biscuits. 
Fried Bacon. Apple Sauce. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Mutton. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Winter Squash. 

Dried Apple Short Cakfc 

with Pudding Sauce. 

Corn Coffee. 



Supper. 

Mutton and Bean Broth. 

Bread and Butter. 

Cheese. Tea. 

Cookies. 



Proteids 
oz. 

}£ lb. Bacon 36 

\i lb. dried Apples 10 

lib. Beans 3.G8 

W lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

2H lbs. Mutton 6.80 

3 lb. Potatoes .. .96 

2 lbs. Winter Squash 16 

Cookies 

21bs. Bread 1.92 

2J^lbs. Flour 4.80 

% lb. Butter 

J^lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Apples 

Total 22.10 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 



.32 
1.16 



2.46 
2.40 



.16 



3.33 



20.09 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 

4.44 
8.56 

15.84 
3.30 

9.94 
3.20 



16.60 
27.94 



78.03 



Costs 

in 
Cent 



5 

7 
14 
30 

3% 
10 
15 

4f 

6M 
3| 



in, 

138 



TWELVE COLD DIE"E"EES. 



If a man is to eat a cold dinner for months or even 
for weeks, it is quite worth while to make that din- 
ner as good as it can be, and to pack it nicely for carry- 
ing Every one knows how it can take the edge off 
even a keen appetite to find his sandwich smeared 
with apple pie, or his cake soaked with vinegar from 
the pickles. That a box or basket of given dimen- 
sions should hold as much as possible, and keep the 
different kinds of food separate, it must be divided 
into compartments. 

Simplest — an oblong basket, — divide into two 
compartments by a piece of pasteboard cut so that 
it slips in rather tightly, then line the two compart- 
ments with nice wrapping paper put in fresh every 
day. It may be divided into four parts in the same 
way. A close fitting tin spice box is nice for holding 
cheese. A tiny " salve" box should contain salt and 
pepper mixed. Sew leather straps on the cover of the 
basket inside, for holding knife, fork and spoon. 

Put a strap around the basket that you may hang 
from it a little pail containing cold soups recom- 
mended for drinks in summer. 

Cold puddings should be wrapped in strong writ- 
ing paper, then in wrapping paper and pinned close. 

176 



Twelve Cold Dinners. 



177 



cold dinners for summer. 



1. Bread and butter. 

Salad of potatoes and cold 

baked fish. 

Cold boiled beef. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Apple Soup. 

2. Corn Bread. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Baked sweet apples. 

Custard pie. 

Plum Soup 

3. Bread and butter. 

Cold veal. 

Hard boiled eggs. 

Pickled beets. 

Cherry Pie. 



4. Chopped beef sandwiches. 

Salad of Lima Beans. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Irish Moss Lemonade. 



5. Graham bread. 

Cold roast mutton. 

Cucumbers and salt. 

Pumpkin pie. 

Soda cream. 

6. Bread and butter. 

Dried Beef. Crackers. 

Cheese. Sponge cake. 



Cold coffee. 



COLD DINGERS FOR WINTER. 
10 



7. Bread. 

Cold boiled pork. 

Cold baked beans with 

mustard and vinegar. 

Doughnuts. 

Apple pie. 

Cold coffee. 

8. Yeast biscuits and butter. 

Cold chicken. 

Pickles. 

Cold rice pudding. 

Apples. 

9. Cold soda biscuits. 

Veal and ham sandwiches. 

Saratoga potatoes. 

Mince pie. 



Biscuits and butter with 

honey. 

Cold corn beef and rye 

bread. 

Dried apple tarts. 

Cheese. 



11. Bread and butter. 

Smoked Herring. 

Pickled beans. 

Gingerbread. 

Apples. 

12. Corn bread and butter. 
Cold roast beef and white 

bread. 

Bread and apple pudding. 

Bread cake. 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Apple dump lings. 109 

pie 109 

water 136 

Apples, food value of 84 

Bacon, balls in soup 128 

broiled 54 

fried 54 

with cabbage.. 54 

Barley, analysis of 80 

to cook 86 

porridge 122 

with prunes 86 

insoup 127 

Bean flour 82 

soup 117 

Beans, cellulose in 82 

to cook 115 

digestibility of 77, 82 

proteidin 81 

with prunes 116 

Beef, analysis of, compared, 26, 27 

baked 41 

boiled 40 

broiled 42 

corned 47 

croquettes 49 

friedinfat 40 

hash 48 

heart 48 

liver 47 

pie 46 

pressed 49 

re-cooked..., 48 

stew 40 

tripe 48 

Biscuit, graham 102 

soda 102 

soda in puddings 108 

yeast 97 

179 



PAGE. 

Bills of Fare, explanation of 142 
Class I, introduction to.. 143 

ClassI 151 

Class TI ... 163 

Class III 164 

Bonny Clabber 64 

Bread, corn 97 

dressing 106 

additional facts about ... 96 

in foreign countries 16 

fritters _. 114 

graham 96 

making 94 

making, principles in- 
volved in 91 

omelet 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding 110 

re-baked 106 

rye.. 97 

steamed 99 

stale, steamed 106 

soup 121 

uses for 105 

Buckwheat, analysis of 80 

pancakes 100 

Buns, plain 98 

fruit 98 

Butter, artificial 70 

substitutes for 68 

to try out 71 

Buttermilk cheese (see Cot- 
tage cheese). 

to keep fresh 64 

pudding 108 

soup 123 

uses for 64 

Cake, raised 98 

Johnny 103 



180 



Index. 



PAGE. 

Cake, short 102 

short, strawberry 108 

Carbohydrates 6 

amountindiet 76 

containing foods 75 

digestibility of 77 

function of -. 9 

Cellulose 75 

inbeans 76 

its uses 82 

Charcoal, use of 21, 43 

Chocolate 134 

soup 123 

Cheese, cottage 64 

cooked with bread 61 

digestibility of 30 

fondarain 62 

food value of 29 

grated 61 

proteidin 5 

use abroad 30 

Chicken, f ricaseed 57 

soup 57 

Cider, bottled 136 

soup 124 

Coffee.. 133 

corn 135 

Corn (Indian), analysis of 80 

bread .97, 103 

flour 87 

gruel 135 

mush 87 

pancakes 87, 104 

pone. 88 

porridge 122 

pudding 107 

Croquettes, meat 49 

Dietary, army 66 

Bavarian 67 

standard ....3,10-13 

of poor family 12 

Dinners, Twelve Cold. 175 

Doughnuts 99 

Drinks at meals 133 

Economy, its true scope 13 

Egg dishes 59 



PAGE. 

Eggs, food value of. 29, 58 

hard boiled 50 

omelets 60 

proteidin... 5 

raw 50 

soft boiled , 50 

Egg sponge for soup 128 

Farina, pudding 108 

soup 121 

Fats in army dietary 66 

different, compared 69 

digestibility of 68 

function of 9 

importance of 67 

uses of in cooking 71 

Fish balls 57 

fresh 55 

food value of 28 

chowder 55 

salt 56 

soup 56 

Flavorings 9, 130 

Flour, fine wheat 89 

raised with egg 92 

raised with soda 100 

raised with yeast 93 

qualityof 94 

Fondamin 62 

Food Principles, definition of 4 

functions of 7 

proportion of in diet 10 

Fritters 113 

bread 114 

egg-raised 113 

soda-raised 113 

fruit 114 

Fruits, digestibility of 84 

dried 84 

fritters 114 

food value of... . 83 

soups 124 

puddings 108 

Gelatine, history of 22 

Graham biscuits 102 

bread 96 

gems 88 



Index. 



181 



PAGE. 

Graham, pancakes 104 

Grains, analysis of 80 

cookingof 85 

Grapes, sugar in. 84 

Gruels 135 

Ham, cakes 54 

croquettes 54 

boiled 53 

broiled 54 

fried 54 

sandwiches 53 

Hash, meat 48 

Heat saver 44 

Hominy, fried 87 

Mushes, fried. 87 

to make 86 

other uses for 87 

Introduction 1 

Kitchen, arrangement of 18 

utensils 19 

Lard 72 

Lentils, to cook 115 

food value of.. 81 

soup 118 

Lemonade, Irish moss 136 

Macaroni, to cook 89 

in soup 129 

with tomatoes 90 

Marrow ._ 71 

Meat balls in soup 129 

consumption of 11 

methods of cooking 32 

structure of 32 

tough, to make tender. . . 45 

Milk, analysis of 63 

canning 63 

sour, uses for 64 

Mintsauce 74 

Muffins 93 

Mutton, modes of cooking . . 51 

Noodles 90 

Noodle soup 91 

Oats, food value of 79 

analysis of 80 

Oatmeal gruel 135 

pancakes 86 



PAGE. 

Oatmeal, mush. 86 

Omelets (see Eggs). 

Oils, for frying 41 

Pancakes, soda 87, 103 

egg-raised 93 

yeast-raised .99, 100, 101 

Parsnip soup 119 

Pears, food value of 84 

Peas Split, to cook 115 

food value of. .... 118 

Pea soup 118 

Plumsoup 124 

Piecrust 92 

apple 109 

Pork and apples 55 

and beans 55 

ways of cooking 55 

food value of 27 

Potato, cooking of the 115 

crust 46 

food value of 82 

omelet 114 

soup 118 

Porridges -- 122 

Proteids 5 

function of 7 

containing foods 22 

vegetable 78 

Pudding, Berry Betty 110 

bread 110 

bread and butter Ill 

Brown Betty 110 

buttermilk 108 

custard 110 

farina 108 

Indian .107, 110 

individual HI 

minute 107 

rice -- HO 

sago HO 

sauce H2 

suet 112 

tapioca HO 

Rice, analysis of 80 

food value of — 79 

to cook 85 



182 



Index, 



PAGE. 

Rice, gruel 135 

omelet 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding ..107, 110 

Rolls...-.*- 97 

Rusks 98 

Rye flour, analysis of 80 

bread 97 

Salts.... 6 

Sauces, drawn butter 73 

meat 74 

Schwaben Spetzel 128 

Sick, cookery for the 136 

Starch, in dietary 78 

digestibility of 77 

Sodla Cream 136 

Sorrel soup 120 

Soup, additions to 126 

analysis of 24 

fish 121 

fruit 124 

meat, to make.. 33 

milk 39,122 

use of in Europe. 16 

vegetable 117 

31 



PAGE. 

Sugar, consum ption of 15 

food value of 80 

Suet pudding 112 

totryout 40 

uses of .71, 72 

Tea 134 

Thermometer, use of 43 

Tomato omelet 61 

sauce 74 

soup 119 

Tripe, to cook 48 

Veal, modes of cooking 50 

Vegetable food, digestibility 

of 77 

Vegetables, cooking of 115 

food value of 83 

withfruits 116 

mixed 116 

soups — 117 

Water 5 

Wheat 79 

analysis of 80 

flour, cooking of .89-104 

Welsh rarebit 62 



THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH 
ASSOCIATION, 

Organized in 1872 by a few eminent sanitarians, has grown 
in fourteen years to be the strongest and ablest association of 
its kind in America, if not in the world, and contains in its list 
of members, plrysicians, lawyers, clergymen, teachers, en- 
gineers, architects, and representatives of other trades and 
professions. Its influence has been felt in the legislative halls 
of the nation, as well as in every state and territory, for the 
amelioration of sickness and suffering, and the prolongation of 
human life. 

The fourteen large and elegant volumes it has published are 
iu themselves a monument to American hygiene, while their 
precepts and teachings have been felt through all ranks and 
grades of society, from the workshop to the mansion of the 
millionaire. No library is complete in its literature of sanita- 
tion without these works. 

Each member of the Association receives a copy of the 
annual volume free of expense. This work alone is worth 
more to any individual than the cost of membership. 

EXTRACT FROM CONSTITUTION, Art. III. 

The members of this Association shall be known as Active 
and Associate. The Executive Committee shall determine for 
which class a candidate shall be proposed. The Active mem- 
bers shall constitute the permanent body of the Association, 
subject to the provisions of the Constitution as to continuance 
in membership. They shall be selected with special reference 
to their acknowledged interest in or devotion to sanitary studies 
and allied sciences, and to the practical application of the 
same. The Associate members shall be elected with special 
reference to their general interest only in sanitary science, and 
shall have all tbe privileges and publications of the Associa- 
183 



184 American Public Health Association. 

tion, but shall not be entitled to vote. All members shall be 
elected as follows: 

Each candidate for admission shall first be proposed to the 
Executive Committee in writing (which may be done at any 
time), with a statement of the business or profession, and 
special qualifications, of the persons so proposed. On recom- 
mendation of a majority of the committee, and on receiving a 
vote of two thirds of the members present at a regular meeting, 
the candidate shall be declared duly elected a member of the 
Association. The annual fee of membership in either class, 
shall be five dollars. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN 
PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 

PUBLIC HEALTH : Reports and Papers of the 
American Public Health Association. Volumes 1 to 14 
inclusive and one volume to be issued annually. These vol- 
umes contain the papers presented at the annual meetings of 
the Association, with the discussions upon each, and constitute 
large and very handsome works. Each member of the Asso- 
ciation is entitled to the annual volume. A small edition is 
also placed in the hands of the treasurer for sale. At the 
present time there are but few complete sets on hand, and 
these are being rapidly taken by libraries. 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS: Their Ap- 
plication and Use in the Prevention and Treatment 
op Disease, and in Public and Private Sanitation, by 
the Committee on Disinfectants, appointed by the American 
Public Health Association. 

The following is the list of authors of this work: George M. 
Sternberg, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and Fellow by 
Courtesy in the Johns Hopkins University; Joseph H. Ray- 
mond, M. D., Professor of Physiology and Sanitary Science* in 
Long Island College Hospital; Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., 
Ph. D., Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Univer- 
sity of Michigan, and Member of the Michigan State Board of 
Health; Charles Smart, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and 
member of the National Board of Health; George H. Rohe, 
M. D., Professor of Hygiene in the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Baltimore; Joseph Holt, M. D., President of the 
Louisiana State Board of Health; Samuel H. Durgin, M. D., 
health officer of Boston; and J. R. Duggan, M. D. 

The original experimental investigations made by these 
specialists are of great importance and value, and render this 
work the most complete and practical volume upon disinf ec- 
185 



186 American Public Health Association. 

tion and disinfectants yet published. A large amount of 
original work is devoted to the various micro-organisms, and 
in determining the value of many of the so-called disinfectants 
and germicides. The biological work was conducted mostly at 
the Johns Hopkins University under the supervision of Dr. 
Sternberg, and at the University of Michigan under Dr. 
Vaughan. Various apparatus used for disinfecting purposes, 
as well as the admirable quarantine system at New Orleans, 
are fully described and illustrated. The chapter on Pto- 
maines, by Dr. Vaughan, is of great value. 

The labors and investigations of these gentlemen extended 
over a period of three years, and involved no inconsiderable 
expense. 

The work consists of two hundred and sixty-five pages, with 
sixty-eight illustrations, printed upon very heavy paper made 
especially for this volume, and is elegantly bound in handsome 
English cloth. The price has been placed at the low figure of 
two dollars per volume. Sent postpaid on receipt of price. 



LOME PRIZE ESSAYS. 

These exceedingly valuable essays, written by authors of 
great ability, and selected as the best out of many received in 
competition, by committees of award who were selected by 
the American Public Health Association, the Conference of 
State Boards of Health, and the National Board of Health, and 
whose names alone guarantee the high character of the works, 
are being placed before the public at cost, through means 
that are being furnished the American Public Health Asso- 
ciation. 

No. i. Healthy Homes and Foods for the Working-Classes. 
By Prof. Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Judges:— Dr. E. M. Moore, Pres. State Bd. of Health, Roch- 
ester, N. Y. ; Dr. C. W. Chancellor, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, 
Baltimore, Md.; Medical Director Albert L. Gihon, U. S. Navy, 
Washington, D. C.j Dr. J. H. Raymond, Health Commissioner, 
Brooklyn, N. Y.; Major Charles Smart, Surgeon U. S. A., 
Washington, D. C. 

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. 

Location; the cellar; the walls; the floors; arrangement of 
rooms; the windows; heating and ventilation; water-supply; 
the disposal of waste; the surroundings; the care of the home; 
buying or renting a house; tenement-houses; foods and food 
stuffs; the nutritive value of foods; the economic value of 
foods. Animal foods; — general properties; methods of cook- 
ing meat; milk; butter; cheese. Vegetable foods; — cereals and 
grains; flour and meal; bread; pease and beans; potatoes; 
other vegetables; starches; sugars; fruits; nuts; vegetable oils; 
condiments; tea; coffee; chocolate. 
8vo paper, 62 pp. Price 10 cts. 

Same in English-German (alternate pages in German) .15. 
187 



188 Lomh Prize Essays. 

No. 2. The Sanitary Conditions and Necessities of School- 
Houses and School-Life. By D. F. Lincoln, M. D., 
Boston, Mass. 

Judges: — Hon. Erastus Brooks, LL. D., State Bd. of Health, 
New York; Dr. H. P. Walcott, State Bd. of Health, Lunacy, 
and Charity, Cambridge, Mass. ; Dr. Granville P. Conn, Pres. 
State Bd. of Health, Concord, N. H. : John Eaton, Commis- 
sioner of Education, Washington, D C; Col. George E. War- 
ing, Jr., C. E., Newport, R. I. 

Site: dampness, the cellar, contamination of soil and air, 
drainage, foundation walls, neighborhood, etc. Plan and ar- 
rangement of the building : architecture, doors, windows, 
recitation and class-rooms, stairways, lire-escapes, etc. Ven- 
tilation and heating: amount of fresh air and cubic space re- 
quired, introduction of fresh air, carbonic acid gas exhaled, 
dimensions of ventilating apparatus, size of flues, circulation 
of air in room, ventilating by steam power, " indirect" heat- 
ing, testing atmosphere of school-room, source of air-supply, 
water-closets, ventilating-stoves, open windows, ventilators, 
etc. Sewerage: bad air dangerous to health, waste-pipes, 
traps, ventilation of traps, closets, flush-tanks, urinals, privies, 
disinfectants. Hygiene of the eye: nearsightedness, rules for 
using the eyes, location of windows, type used in school- 
books, curtains and blinds. School desks and gymnastics: 
construction of seats, physical training. Affections of the 
nervous system: competition for prizes, lack of exercise, dress. 
Contagious diseases in schools. Sanitary supervision. This 
work contains fifteen illustrations. 

8vo paper, 38 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

No. 3. Disinfection and Individual Prophylaxis against 
Infectious Diseases. By George M. Sternberg, M. D., 
Major and Surgeon U. S. A. 

Judges: — Dr. S. H. Durgin, Health Officer, Boston, Mass.; 
Dr. J. E. ReeveS, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Wheeling, W. Va. ; 
Dr. Gustavas Devron, Pres. Aux. San. Assn., New Orleans, 



Lomb Prize Essays 189 

La.; Prof. Kichard McSherry, M. D., Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
James L. Cabell, LL. D., University of Virginia, Va. 

Disinfection; groups of disinfectants. 

Group I. — 1. Fire; 2. Steam under pressure; 3. Boiling 
water; 4. Chloride of lime; 5. Liquor, soda cblorinatae; 6. 
Mercuric chloride. 

Group II. — 7. Dry beat; 8. Sulphur dioxide; 9. Carbolic 
acid; 10. Sulphate of copper; 11. Chloride of zinc; general 
directions for disinfection; disinfection of excreta, etc.; dis- 
infection of person; disinfection of clothing and bedding; dis- 
infection of the sick-room; disinfection of privy vaults, cess- 
pools, etc.; hospitals; disinfection of water and articles of 
food; disinfection of ships; merchandise. Individual prophy- 
laxis against infectious diseases; cholera; yellow fever; small- 
pox; scarlet fever; diphtheria; tuberculosis; typhoid fever; 
concluding remarks, etc. 

This essay is undoubtedly the best ever written in the 
English language upon the prevention of disease, and oug h 
to be placed in the hands of every family. 

8vo paper, 40 pp. Price, 5 cts. 

Same in English-German (alternate pages in German) .10. 

No. 4. The Preventable Causes of Disease, Injury, and 
Death in American Manufactories and Workshops, 
and the Best Means and Appliances for Preventing 
and Avoiding Them. By George H. Ireland, Spring- 
field, Mass. 

Judges:— Dr. E. M. Hunt, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Tren- 
ton, N. J. ; Dr. A. N. Bell, Editor Sanitarian, New York City; 
Major George M. Sternberg, Surgeon, U. S. A., Baltimore, 
Md.; Major John S. Billings, LL. D., U. S. A., Washington, 
D. C. ; Mr. W. P. Dunwoody, Secretary National Board of 
Health, "Washington, D. C. 

Construction of workshops; elevators; fire-escapes; sanitary 
condition; plumbing; ventilation; sunlight; heating; lighting; 
precaution against fires; dust in factories; ice supply; handling 



190 Lomh Prize Essays. 

heavy goods; machinery; saws and moulding machines; grind- 
stones; railroading; emergencies; contagious diseases; cleanli- 
ness; facilities for workmen, etc. 

8vo paper, 20 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

The four essays, in one volume of nearly two hundred large 
octavo pages, thoroughly indexed, bound in cloth, 50 cts. 

The same printed upon extra heavy paper made especially 
for this edition, and bound in expensive brown cloth with gold 
and black finish, making an elegant and handsome volume, 
$0.75. 






rf\* ■* -u - 



v .^ 

■<*, ^ 



av 






©O v 







= «S\ 



** '% 



A* 









v 



s ^ 



x - 



"^ ^ 






3 /. '' 






^' ^ 



**"%, 



A* 



V 



^ ■■■ 



A -Kt 









^ ' '/ c 




.\* y -A>, 

A ^ 



W 

#% 






V- 



.** 



. <•- 



A ■o- -V 












<t* 



^ * . ■ , 









*P- 



rt> '^ 



kV <-", 

,. s - 



\A 









,0c>. 



A - x 



^ o^ 



v* 






^ 









* x 









o o x 






.£ 
























^ "^ 









/V * 






/- y 



,0 " 

o 






0<T 






v 



v * 



V 



.V '« 



v*, .A v 






• 



\a n 






V-v 



.* x 












(/i .\\ 






S* -4-, 






-J" 



•bo< ' - ^ 






^ "% 



A" 






. " ^ 






^ ^ 



V ^ 















^^^ 






■r 





Glass TX 1\S- 

Book AAAi>^ 



To this 

Prize Essay 

on 

Practical, Sanitary and Economic Cooking, 

By Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, 
• Was awarded first prize among seventy competitors by the 
AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 

It was offered to the government for gratuitous distribution among 
the military and naval organizations and the offer has been accepted. 
Although it was principally written for the use of families, it is believed 
that much of the information contained therein would be practical and 
beoeficial to our brave soldiers and sailors. In order to make it as useful 
as possible, Mrs. Abel, has, with the advice of Mrs. E. H. Richards (Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry of Food. Institute of Technology, Boston) kindly 
written a few prefatory pages relating to the preparation of articles of 
food furnished as rations by the government. Because of the desire to 
carry out the offer of distribution at as early a date as possible the time 
of the author for doing this work was very limited and it was not pos- 
sible to make this part as thorough and complete as it would have other- 
wise been, but it will undoubtedly prove a very practical addition for the 
purpose intended. 

If some of the money which is often spent for articles which are not 
nutritious nor healthful, was paid to a company fund to which all con 
tributed, a much greater and more agreeable variety of palatable food 
could be obtained. 

To make the donation as beneficial as possible a 

SAVING AND INTEREST TABLE, 

of which large numbers have been distributed, is enclosed with the Essay. 
The writer has seen during and after the late Civil War the conditions 
and consequences of soldiers spenditig and of soldiers saving their moder- 
ate earnings and he sincerely desires to assist in inducing as many as pos- 
sible to save something for the future. 

He hopes that the table may be circulated and examined by the mem- 
bers of the organizations. That this may be done and that the essay be 
often consulted and that it may assist in bringing, even if only in a com- 
paratively small degree, comfort and health to the defenders of our now 
happily united country, is the sincere wish of one who is proud to be an 

American Veteran Soldier. 



ARMY COOKERY. 



The ration issued to the U. S. army is more abundant, more varied 
and of better quality than that issued to the army of any other nation. 
It should therefore keep the men in health and strength, and if it fails to 
do so and to be palatable to the healthy appetite, the fault is in its 
preparation. 

A few suggestions as to the cooking of the soldier's ration are here 
offered. 

The garrison ration is so abundant that it cannot be wholly consumed 
and according to the liberal system of exchange of food the surplus can 
be exchanged in such a way as to give still greater variety. In an organ- 
ized camp this allows of excellent and varied cookery. But, the ration 
when on the march is much less varied and contains little or no fresh meat 
or soft bread. It requires therefore more skill on the part of the cook to 
render it palatable and nutritious. 

When the ration consists of salt pork and hard tack and a choice 
between beans, peas, rice and hominy, with tea and coffee and a few con- 
diments, how it is to be best prepared with limited time and with the 
simplest utensils, rests entirely with the cook. 

On the march the breakfast must be substantial as there can be often 
no other regular meal until night. The camp fires or the portable ovens 
must do their work over night in order to effect this. Only in this way 
can baked beans or bean soup be added to the bacon and hard tack, and 
this addition is necessary if the meal is to afford proper nutrition for the 
day and if there is to be no other resource. Pea and bean meal will here 
find a place and are much preferable to whole beans. 

If there is an issue of fresh beef, the trimmings of what has been 
used the day before may be simmered with such vegetables and flavors as 
are at hand and thickened with hard tack broken in pieces. Such a soup 
or stew will be relished if well flavored. 

Corn meal mush cooked long and slowly becomes a well flavored and 
nutritious food instead of being raw and irritating as it is if cooked hastily. 
If cooked stiff it may be moulded in cakes while yet warm, floured and 
fried in fat. Hominy and oat meal may be treated in the same way. 

^ Rice is an excellent breakfast dish and quickly cooked. . It is relished 
with the addition of condensed milk or syrup. 

A Bill of Fare For Seven Days on the March, or at the Front 

is here suggested, in which, for reasons stated, only breakfasts and 
sv/pptrs are provided for. If dinners are possible, they can be arranged 
according to material and time at command. Coffee can for some days 
be changed for tea. 

For bills of fare at camp or garrison or on board ship, some of those 
suggested from pages 151 to 175 of the Essay, will prove useful. 



Ill 



Sunday. Breakfast. 
Bean Soup, 
Corn Beef, 
Coffee, 
Hard Tack, 

Monday. Breakfast 

Corn Mush and Molasses, 

Coffee, 

Bacon in Batter. 

Tuesday. Breakfast. 
Hoe Cake, 

Slewed Beans with Prunes, 
Coffee. 

Wednesday. Breakfast. 

Pea Soup with Toasted Hard 

Tack, 
Coffee, 
Fried Bacon. 

Thursday. Breakfast. 
Boiled Bacon, 
Rice, 
Coffee. 

Friday. Breakfast. 

Baked Beans and Bacon, 
Coffee. 

Saturday. Breakfast. 
Hoe Cake, 
Pea Soup, 
Coffee, 
Boiled Pork. 



Suiyper. 
Fried Pork, 
Coffee, 
Plum Duff. 

Supper. 
Coffee, 
Fried Mush, 
Fried Bacon, 
Hard Tack Pudding. 

Suppier. 
Rhode Island Pancakes, 
Coffee, 
Fried Bacon. 

Supper. 
Coffee, 
Hoe Cake, 
Cold Canned Beef. 

Supper. 
Pork and Potatoes, 
Coffee, 
Bean Meal Soup with Tomatoes. 

Supper. 
Rhode Island Pancakes, 
Coffee, 
Canned Salmon. 

Supper. 
Coffee, 

Fried Hominy and Molasses, 
Cold Boiled Pork. 



The meal, at the end of a day's march, must be often hastily prepared. 
It will then consist of fried pork, coffee and hard tack, or flour made into 
biscuits or pancakes with water and baking powder. Here whatever con- 
densed foods are furnished will be used to advantage. 



IMPORTANCE OF FLAVORING. 

When the food is to be made up of few materials, the variety that can 
be given by cooking in different ways and by the addition of different fla- 
vors is very important. 

The cook's stores should, if possible, contain vinegar, onions, toma- 
toes, dried fruits and pickles, which can be used to give character to the 
dishes. In the case of sugar, its food value, as well as its flavor, is to be 
considered. According to the result of late investigations carried on by the 



IV 

war offices of different countries it is, in small quantities, an invaluable 
restorer of strength to men whose muscular strength has been overtaxed. 

In camp, when a part of the regular ration may be exchanged for other 
food, all depends on the good judgment of the cook in making a riglit 
choice. With such varied materials, a large bill of fare can be made out 
and ordinary rules for cooking may be used. 

The "Manual for Army Cooks " is here a valuable guide. 

SALT PORK AND BACON. 

Not alone for its excellent keeping qualities, but also because it gives 
a relish and flavor to other foods, salt pork remains the mainstay for the 
soldier of all countries. 

It is more heavily salted than that sold for home consumption, and 
must always be freshened. 
Fried Pork or Cut in thin slIccs, soak in cold water for an hour. 

Bacon. or boil for a few minutes, and then fry in a hot pan, 

on both sides, till transparent and light brown. Bacon is generally fried 
too hard, thus wasting the fat and ruining the flavor. 

To the fat left in the pan, add an equal quantity 
Gravy. ^^ flour; Stir and cook a moment; stir in water to make 

a thick gravy, and season with pepper and a little vinegar. 
Boiled Pork or The pork must be soaked over night and boiled in 

Bacon. plenty of water until tender. Whatever vegetables are 

at hand may be boiled with ii, but only long enough to make them tender, 
else their flavor is injured and they become water-soaked. Thus a cab- 
bage, if cut in quarters, will be quite tender in one half hour, potatoes in 
one half hour, greens, as spinage, in less time. 

Pork and Cut One pouud of.pork in slices, also peal and slice one 

Potatoes. half peck potatoes, mix together in a pan, add a little 

water and cover. By the time the potatoes have become tender the water 
should have cooked away. Remove the cover and fry a light brown, 
season with pepper and a little vinegar. 

Freshen salt pork as above, then dip in a thin batter 
Pork in Batter, jjjade of one;quart of^flour, two heaping teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder and one and one half pints of water and fry each piece brow^D 
iu fat. 

BEANS AND PEAS. 

It is impossible to cook beans and peas without long soaking and par- 
boiling. If there is not time for this long soaking and boiling, dried beans 
and peas should not be used at all. Well cooked beans and peas are an 
invaluable food for the soldier. Badly cooked, they are irritating and 
indigestible and doubtless responsible for much of the intestinal derange- 
ment common among hard worked and underfed soldiers. On the other 
hand bean or pea meal may be cooked in much less time and it has been 
found to be much more fully digested. 

Boiled Beans Soak twelve to twentyfour hours in soft water If 

and Peas. the camp water is hard, rain water can be frequently 

saved for this purpose. Boil for two to three hours also in soft water. 
If the water is hard add one-half teaspoonful of baking soda to each 
quart of beans and pour off this water after half an hour, replacing with 



fresh boiling water. When soft they are to be seasoned with salt and 
pepper and some form of fat. If butter is not furnished, pork cut in 
small pieces may be boiled with the beans and served wilh them or a 
gravy made of any kind of fat in the manner described on page IV. Some 
acid seasoning is craved with peas and beans. A tomato sauce is excel- 
lent, or any kind of fruit. 

The first water in which beans are boiled should be thrown away. 
The second water should be replenished sparingly and dried down at last 
rather than drained away. 

Prunes!* Serve stewed beans with a border of stewed prunes. 

Tried Beans. (MANUAL FOR ArMY CoOKS, p. 117.) 

liean or Pea When beans or peas have been cooked as above till 

Sovip. very soft, mash, return to the kettle, adding water to 

make a thick soup, also a little flour stirred up in water to keep the beans 
from sinking to the bottom. Season with salt and pepper, also with but- 
ter or beef drippings or pork fat unless fat meat has been cooked with 
the soup. 

To every two quarts of soup a teacup of strained tomato is an excel- 
lent addition. 

Boil and drain the beans. Put into a frying pan 
«eans. enough butter or beef drippings that when melted will 
just cover the bottom of the pan. When this becomes hot put in the beans 
and fry brown. Stir them occasionally, so they will become brown uni- 
formly. 

HARD TACK. 

A soldier on the march reduced to coffee and hard tack softens the 
hard tack in coffee and thus makes it edible. There are many ways in 
which it may be softened and made to take up flavors, and it is always 
improved by being first toasted over coals. 

Hard Tack The basis of this must be the water in which any 

Soup. kind of meat has been cooked, and it should be flavored 

with salt and pepper, and if possible, with onions and flavoring herbs. 
The hard tack must be placed in it whole and soaked long enough to 
thoroughly soften. It may first be toasted or fried brown in fat. 
Hard Tack Take a pan with a tight cover and pack in it hard 

Pudding. tack, Seasoning each layer with siigar, nutmeg, and 

adding boiled raisins or other fruit. Pour on boiling water, cover and 
allow it to stand until soft. Butter, if at hand, may be spread on each 
piece. 

RICE. 

As used among the Chinese and Japanese, rice can be made to take 
the place of all forms of bread. It is nearly water free, keeps well, and 
is easily cooked with simple outfit. Rice will doubtless be used more 
and more in our army. 

-ft- +Tvr ti, ^ Me\X. in the pot a spoonful of butter or other fat, 

iirst Method. p^^ ^^ ^j^^ well- washed rice and add to it three times its 
bulk of water and to each pint of rice a teaspoonful of salt. Cook close- 
covered, without stirring, for twenty minutes or half-hour on a fire that 
will keep it bubbling, but not hot enough to burn, as a bed of coals or 



back of range. As soon as the grains are soft, turn out and eat with but- 
ter or fat meat. This is far better than the usual addition of sugar. 

In cooking rice, one object is to keep the grains dis- 
Second Method. ^^^^^ ^^^j jj^j^t ^pj^jg js ^iso attained by rapidly boiling 
the rice in many times its bulk of water for about twenty-five minutes, 
and then draining and drying out a little over the fire. This is a better 
way if a thin utensil like tin must be employed or if the fire is very hot. 
But rice thus cooked has somewhat less flavor and nutrition than when 
cooked with only the amount of water it should absorb. 

CORN MEAL. 

As used in the South; corn meal is most valuable in a meal that must 
be cooked with a simple outfit. Unlike wheaten flour, it requires neither 
yeast nor baking powder to lighten it. 

One quart corn meal, one teaspoon salt. Pour on this 
Hoe Cake. ^ scant quart of boiling water, mix w^ell, and make out 

with the hands into thin cakes. Heat in a frying pan enough fat to 
nearly cover the cakes and fry brown on both sides. 

Stir into four quarts of boiling salted water one quart 
Corn Miisii. ^f ^^^j.^ ^gal, sifting it slowly in that all may be scalded. 

It should cook slowly, well covered, for an hour, or better two hours. 
Khode Island (MANUAL FOR Army Cooks, page Ul.) Mix well 

Pancakes. one quart of Indian meal, one quart of rye flour, two 

large tablespoonfuls of melted shortening or butter; five tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, one tablespoonful of salt, one small teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one quart of water to make a stiff batter. Fry ten minutes as you would 
doughnuts. 

COFFEE. 

Coffee that must be kept for some time after roasting is much improved 
by being reheated in a pan before it is used. 



The following are extracts of opinions on Mrs. Abel's Essay on" Prac- 
tical Sanitary aiid Economic Cooking Adapted to Persons of Moderate and 
Small Means" from members of the American Public Health Association: 

Dr. Samuel W. Abbott, Wakefield, Mass. — Mrs. Abel's prize essay is 
the best work of its kind that has yet appeared in this country. It deals 
with the food question in a practical, intelligible way, and will prove a use- 
ful and welcome addition to every household library. It is in fact, a work- 
ing Manual, and a copy of it ought to form a part of every kitchen outfit 
in the land. 

Dr. a. W. Alvord, Battle Creek, Mich.— This is a remarkable book, 
Very seldom does an author have a whole field to herself and fill it so wisely. 

Prof. Edmund R. Angell, Derry, N. H.— From hasty examination of 
the work, it appears to be excellent. 

O. N. Archibald, Jamestown, N. Dakota.— The above little work is a 
very valuable essay on the subjects treated, and will do a vast sight of good 
to the class it is intended to benefit. Iwould wish to see it in the hands of 
every citizen, and especially those of small means and without knowledge 
on this important part of our lives. 



Harry T. Bahnson, M. D., Pres't N. C. Board of Health, Salem, N. 'C. 
. — Am thoroughly pleased with the little book. Shall try to introduce it 
largely throughout the State. 

Dr. Wm. Bailey, Louisville, Ky. — The work is admirable. 

Dr. Henry B. BaivER, President American Public Health Association. 
— I consider it a very useful book to all classes of people. 

B. F. Beardsley, M. D., Hartford, Couu. — So far as read I am much 
pleased with it. 

Dr. Jos. A. Beaudry, Montreal. — I deem the work a most valuable 
addition to Domestic Economy. 

Fred'k Becker, Clermont, Iowa. — The above-named little work is a 
marvel of usefulness and should be found in every household. 

Dr. E. W. BLATcnFORD, Chicago, III. — The subject and mode of treat- 
ment admirable; calculated to accomplish much good. Especially needed 
at present time. 

Dr. Jno. Willis Browne, Surgeon General, U. S. N"., Washington, 
D. C. — A clear, sufficient, full, practical, interesting treatment of the sub- 
ject, and worthy of the commendation of the committee. 

J. G. Cabell, M. D., Richmond, Va.— It will prove very useful for 
many purposes, especially in Public Institutions, where large numbers have 
to be provided for and economy consulted. It is gotten up in attractive style. 

C. W. Chancellor, M. D., Baltimore, Md.— As a manual of Domestic 
Economy the book is admirable. It treats of a subject which is wisely in 
process of introduction into the routine of general education; and, for pur- 
poses of "teaching the young idea how to cook," is a scientific guide ratner 
than a cookery book or a volume of rules and receipts. 

Walter H. Chapin, M. D., Springfield, Mass. — A valuable work. 

Dr. E. F. X. Cleveland, Dundee, 111. — I will endeavor to interest em- 
ployers to purchase copies for their married employees, as it meets their 
case exactly. 

Dr. Chas. E. Cole, Wauzeka, Wis. — It is just what its title implies. 

N. B. Cole, Bloomington, 111. — The essay I prize highly. It is simple 
vest pocket common sense. 

Dr. George Cook, Concord, N. H. — Very good thing! 

Dr. Chas. Wm. Covernton, Toronto, Ont. — A most admirable com- 
pendium on a very important subject for contributing to the well-being of 
the masses, and well adapted for securmg the object in view. 

Prof. F.._C. Curtis, Albany, N. Y. — A good subject well treated, in 
concise form. 

Dr, J. P. Dake, Nashville, Tenn. — Your committee of award did wisely 
in this case. The book comes up to the reqr.irements very nicely. 

H. C. DARBy, Wilmot, Wis. — The best I ever read. 

H. H. Darr, M. D., Caldwell, Tex. — I think it is a splendid work and 
will no doubt do a great deal of good. 

Dr. S. H. Ddrgin, Boston, Mass. — The best I have ever seen on the 
subject, and will do inestimable good if read by the people. 

Dr. Cyrus Edson, New York. — The work is the most com])lete of its 
kind I have seen. Its mission, though seemingly lowly, is in reality a very 
high one, and it fills it perfectly It reflects great credit upon all connected 
with its production. 

Dr. W. H. Elliott, Savannah, Ga. — I am glad to be able to say that I 
think this work admirable. 

Delos Fall, Albion, Mich. — This work must be the means of doing much 
good in teaching people how to live better and more cheaply. The work 
will be of great value to me personally in the lectures on sanitary science. 



VIII 

'Db. Chas. H. Fisher, Providence, R. I. — I am most favorably im- 
pressed with the Ligh value of this little book as a practical manual of 
sanitary, economic and also scientitic cooking. The correctness of scientific 
statement and the directness and clearness of scientific application in the 
grouping of the fundamental ''food principles" in the various formuke for 
cooking, are most admirable. 

Dr. Charles James Fox, Surgeon General of the State, Willimantic, 
Conn. — A very valuable and interesting work. 

Dr. £. B. Frazer, Sec'y State Board of Health, Delaware. — The work 
is biief and to the point. Its value as an educator can hardly be computed 
in dollais and cents. It is a gem. 

Dr. Spencer M. Free, Beachtree, Jefferson Co. Pa. — I am glad to say- 
that the above is one of the finest works on the subject that I have had the 
opportunity to examine. It should have a wide circulation. 

W. S. French, C. E., Agent and Clerk Board of Health, West Newton, 
Mass. — From the little study which I have been able to give to it it seems to 
justify the opinion of the Committee of Award. Its arrangement is ad- 
mirable and so clear that "he may read who runs'' and understand it. 

Dr. Wolcott Gibbs, Newport, R. I. — An admirable book which ought 
to be in every family. 

Dr. Albert L. Gihon, U, S. Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y.— Altrac- 
tive in appearance — neat and elegant in style— an admirable addition to 
any library. 

Crosby Gray, Esq., Municipal Hall, Pittsburgh, Pa. — An excellent 
work, which should be in the possession of every housekeeper. 

Wm. E. Griffiths, M. D. Brooklyn, N. Y. — Worthy of the prize. 

Dr. Junius M. Hall, Chicago, 111. — The work contains a great quantity 
of valuable information and I am greatly pleased with it. 

Dr. Joiln B. Hamilton, U. S. Mar. Hospital Serv., Washington, D. C.^ 
The essay is a good one and in my opinion should have a wide distribution. 

Dr. a. Hazlewood, Grand Rapids, Mich.— Like the essay very much; 
pleasing in the manner, and full of good ideas. 

William Heaps, Manufacturer, Muskegon, Mich. — A masterpiece. 
Will prove of incalcuable benefit to those "who read, mark, and learn." 

Dr. H. J. Herrick, Cleveland, O. — I am very much pleased with the 
clear and definite manner of presentation, as also the practical matter con- 
tained in the Prize Essay. It treats of a most important subject in Hygiene. 

Hon. Henry D. Holton, Brattleboro, Vt.-— A most valuable book. 

Dr. Geo. Homan, St. Louis, Mo. — I think the essay is admirable both 
in scope and method. 

Dr. Carl H. Horsch, Dover, N. H. — I sincerely hope that the valuable 
and inexpensive essay will be in every house in the land. 

Alexander Hadden, M. D., New York City. — I have examined the 
book on Sanitary, Economic Cookery hastily, but sufficiently thorough to 
understand fully that it will be a useful manual in every intelligent house- 
hold, and an invaluable aid to physicinns who look after the regimen of 
their patients. 

C. C. Hunt, Dixon, 111. — An exc^j^ent exposition and treatment of the 
•subjects considered. 

Ezra M. Hunt, M. D., Trenton, N. J.— I find the book of Mrs. Abel is 
a most valuable one, and adds new credit to the Lomb Prize Essays. It 
wUl be of great and wide-spread service. 

Dr. D. C. Jones, Member State Board of Health, Topeka, Kansas.— I 
am very much pleased with the clear and concise manner in which the 
author presents her views. 



Hon, J. M. Keating, Editor Memphis Commercial, Memphis, Tenn. 
— A scientific and practical work that would be of especial value in- 
classes, and that should be pushed as rapidly as is possible into general 
circulation. 

Prof. R. C. Kedzie, M. D. , Prof, in Agricultural College, Lansing, 
Mich. — I am much pleased with the book. It resembles a well-ordered 
meal in that there is enough and not too much. The good cook is the 
handmaid of good morals; there is no real civilization without her aid. 

JosiAH F. Kennedy, A. M., M. D., Sec'y Iowa State Board of Healtb,. 
Des Moines, Iowa. — I am much pleased with the work. It is eminently 
practical; scientific without being technical. The arrangement is excel- 
lent. The style is clear and terse. It is indeed a multum inparvo and as 
a cook book I know none better — though many larger. 

Dr. p. H. Kretzschmar, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

So far as I have read the little work, I consider it very valuable, full 
of instructive matter. 

Benjamin Lee, M. D., Sec'y State Board of Health of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pa. — The wanton waste which characterizes the provision- 
ing and cooking of the family of the American mechanic is only too well- 
known to students of social science. If this work could be brought intO' 
such families, its simplicity and clearness could not fail to convince 
the mothers and housekeepers of the advantage, both to the purses of 
their husbands and the health of their families, of a more careful study 
of the science of cooking and of the true values of foods. Money whick 
is now recklessly squandered would be laid away against a rainy day, 
and many a dyspeptic pang would be prevented. It is much to be- 
desired that means should be taken to give this truly valuable book a. 
wide circulation. 

Dr. E. R. Lewis, Kansas City, Mo. — I believe this little book will 
prove of much practical value to those who are fortunate enough to possess 
it, and I believe its domain could well be extended to those of more than 
moderate means. I would especially commend it to many of our American 
hotels and restaurants. 

ChaunceyE. Low, M. D., Brooklyn, N.Y. — The work strikes me as prac- 
tical, containing much information that should be known to all of those 
who desire to study the sanitary and economic methods of preparing food. 

R. N. MacDonnell, M. D., Montreal, P. Q.— A work that is certain 
to do a great deal of good. 

Jno. Edw. Mason, M. D., Washington, D. C— Have read the work^ 
find it first rate, especially the article on cooking meats. 

C. D. McDonald, Kansas City, Mo.— From the short time I have had ta 
read and digest the subject matter I think it excellent. 

W. P. McLarey, Milwaukee, Wis. — An exceedingly valuable book. 

Dr. J. A. Mead, Pearlington, Miss. — Am well pleased with the book. 

Dr. Alfred Mercer, Syracuse, N. Y. — I have examined the above- 
work and am pleased with its scope and suggestions. 

C. MoNjEAU, Secretary and Manager of National Water Supply Co., 
Cincinnati, O. — The essay impresses me more favorably than anything of 
the kind I ever met with in any school. 

F. MoNTiZAMBERT, M. D., Quarantine Officer, Quebec, P. Q.— Inter- 
esting and valuable essay. 

Rob't Moore, C. E., St. Louis, Mo. — Seems to be very valuable. 

Emma W. Mooers, Arlington, Mass.— The book is invaluable,— it will 
bring harmony out of discord. Better work, clearer heads,, and happier 
lives will belong to the working people. 



D. P. Morgan, Chicaj^o, 111.— From the cursory glance that I have made 
of the book I should cousider it one of extreme usefulness, and the author 
deserves great credit for her labor. 

W. F. Morse, Kew York City.— Admirably sensible and compact in 
arrangement and statement. Thoroughly practical and well adapted for 
purposes required. 

E. M. MosHER, M. D., Brooklyn, N. Y. — It is clearly Tvritten, scientific, 
simple, well adapted to the needs of the people, both rich and poor. 

Dr. a. Nash, Joliet, 111. — I am very much pleased with the essay of 
Mrs. M. H. Abel. 

Dr. Wm. K. Newton, Pnterson, N. J.— A most excellent work. 

Frank P. Norbtry, M. D., Jacksonville, 111.— Ad intensely interesting 
essay, full of practical facts worthy the consideration of all who "eat to 
live." The application of physiological principles is aptly set forth and 
well adapted for the use to which these health essays are intended. 

Dr. Wm. Oldright, Toronto, Ont. — Think it conveys a large amount 
of useful, practical information, very much needed by our housekeepers, 
in a concise and pleasant manner. 

11. S. Orne, M. D., Los Angeles, Cal. — I have examined the copy of 
"Sanitary and Economic Cooking," and find it an excellent book on the 
subject, and just what is needed for the people. 

Henry E. Pellew, Esq., Washington, D. C. — A very practical code of 
instructions in the preparation of food in the households of the majority 
in this country. 

Dr. C. O. Probst, Columbus, O. — I have read the above work with 
much interest, and am much pleased with it. I consider it one of the best of 
the series and wish we were able to place one in each household in our State. 

J. W. Redden, M. D., Topeka, Kan., Scc'y Kansas b'tnte Board of 
Health. — This is a most admirable work; well adapted to the purposes 
designed. It is full of valuable information and should be in every 
family. May its demand be equal to its merits. 

Dr. James E. Reeves. Chattanooga, Tenn. — 1 am delighted with the 
work. Its value will be the happiness and saving of thousands of persons 
who will never see the book. 

R. H. Reid, Mansfield, Ohio.— Good. 

Dr. B. O. Reynolds, Lake Geneva, Wis. — A valuable little Essay, 
especially calculated to benefit the poor and middle classes (financially 
speaking) of American society. 

Mrs. Ellen H. Richards,' S. B., A. M., Instructor in Sanitary Chemis- 
try, Mass. Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass. — It is not often that we 
find so much real knowledge, ortlie result of so much study condensed 
into one little volume of 175 pages. It is a truly fortunate circumstance 
that an American mother and housekeeper should have the great oppor- 
tunity, and with the opportunity the desire and ability to weave the scien- 
tific knowledge of the laboratory into the daily food of the family. The 
great value of the Uttle book lies'in the clear statement of certain principles 
which lie at the foundation of all food preparation ; so that if the particular 
recipe is not available for the housewife she may by a little study learn how- 
to adapt what she has to the best advantage. 

F. C. Robinson, Brunswick, Me.— I am exceedingly pleased with the 
work. It cannot be too widely circulated. 

F. J. Rogers, M. D. Stamford, Ct.— Sensible and practical. An excel- 
lent work. 
Dr. H. W. Rose, Westerly, R. I.— An excellent work. 
J. B. Rozier, Esq., Memphis, Tenn. — Highly appreciated. 



A. R Rui, Springfield, Mass. — Of inestimable value, especially to young 
housekeepers. 

D. A. Sargent, M. D., Cambridge, Mass. — An excellent treatise on the 
subiect. 

Chas. H. Shepard, M. D., 81 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y.— 
Exceedingly interested in this book. Will prove valuable in many ways. 

Dr. J. H. Sears, Waco, Tex. —Have not bad time to examine critically, 
but so far as examined, very much pleased and think it entitled to the prize. 

Joel W. Smith, M. D., Charles Citv, Iowa. — Without exception, the 
most valuable work of the kind in the English language— and I suspect in 
any language — not alone for the poor butl^or all classes. 

Dr. Joseph Spiegelhalter, St. Louis, Mo. — This is an excellent book. 

State Board of Health, Des Moines, Iowa. — Excellent. 

Dr. George M. Sternberg, U. S. A., Ex President Am. Pub. Health 
Ass'n., John Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. — This essay, in which 
the results of scientitic research and of practical experience are combined 
in an admirable way, should be in the hands of every housekeeper. 

EuG. F. Storke* M.D., Milwaukee, Wis. — I am much pleased with the 
book. 

Chas. Sutherland, U. S. A., Governor's Island. — As far as I havehad 
time to examine this book I believe it to be an excellent one for the object 
intended. 

Dr. G. B. Thornton, Memphis;, Tenn.— From a hasty sketch lam sure 
it is worthy of the credit awarded it by the Committee, and it will prove 
very useful in practice. 

J. P. Thomas, M. D., Elmo, via Pembrook. — I am very much pleased 
with the entire book. It is certainly a multum in parvo on the subject of 
both scienlific and practical cooking. 

Dr. Gerard G. Tyrrell, Sec'y California State Board of Health, Sacra- 
mento, Cal.— I have looked over the book and think it a most valuable 
addition to the sanitary works of the American Public Health Association. 
I think it ought to have a large circulation among those to whose means 
it is adapted as embodying the greatest economy in the most efficient re- 
sults in the preparation of palatable food. 

Dr. J.H. Van Deman, Chattanooga, Tenn.— Decidedly practical and 
useful. 

F. P. Vanderbergh, Buffalo, N, Y, — A most excellent book for any 
citizen, whether professional or artisan. 

Dr. H. p. Walcott, Ex- President of the American Public Health Ass'n., 
Cambridge, Mass. — The work appears to me now, as it did upon my earlier 
reading of it, eminently wise and practical. I think a more general use of 
this little book would l3e of essential benefit to the public health. 

Jerome Walker, M. D., Brooklyn, N. Y.--One of the most practical 
books I have ever seen and the only one of the kind as far as I know. 

D_. R. Wallace, M. D., Sup't North Texas Lunatic Asylum, Terrell, Tex. 
— Little book, is a most important treatise on a most important subject, 
truly a multum in parvo. 

Cheney D. Washburn, Springfield, Mass. — Excellent work. 

Dr. J. Madison Watson, Elizabeth, N. J.— An essay which supplies a 
real need. 

J. O. AV EASTER, M. D., Augusta, Me.— It is of great value, and it is 
very desirable that it should be widely circulated. 

H. M. .Wells, Medical Inspector, U. S. N. Washington, D. C— Multum 
in parvo. 

Elisha Winter, Brooklyn, K Y.— Admirably adapted. 

S. P. Wise, Millersburg, O.— It is a masterpiece on the subject of which 
it treats. 



^anttare mxh okonmrnrdjc ^iirijt^ 

Pis^igeu uitir gerhignt ^ittelii intgep^st. 

— a; oil — 
iFrau JKarg J^intnan ^tjcL 



£omb'fd?er pr cis . 2luf fa^. 



II f f d; V i f t : „3)ie filnf 9ta^rung§gvunblagen hind) 
praftifd^e Ofcejepte iUuftrivt. " 



.^'^erauSgcgebeu you bent 
2lmcrifamfd?en Vmxn fiir offcntlic^e (Scfunbtjeitspflegc. 

1890. 



PRACTICAL 



ADAPTED TO 



PERSONS OF MODERATE AND SMALL MEANS 



BY 



( Mrs) Mary fHii^MAN ;Abel. 



THE LOME PRIZE ESSAY. 



Inscription: ''The Five Food Princi2)les, Illustrated 
hy Practical Recipes^ 



PUBLISHED BY THE 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 

1890. 



Copyright, 1889, 

By IRVING A. WATSON, 

Secretary American Public Health Association. 

In exch. 
D. 0^ r' T^".b. Lib, 

JAN 17 t908 



PRINTED BY E. R. ANDREWS 
ROCHESTER, N. Y. 



©§ giBt Dietfeidjt feine beffere %xt unb SSeife, bem 
^ublihim hie ^I}at|a(^cnDDr3uIegcn, n)eld)eu bicfegtuertf); 
Dolle 2Bcrf feine ©ntfteljung oerbanft, alg bie S^ct^iigung 
bev ^tnfiinbtgung, bie 311 einer ttufserorbentUc^ leH;a[teu 
unb tiidjtigen G^onfurvenj urn ben ^rei^, lute and) jn ber 
raoIjlDerbienten (F:!)ve ful)rte, n)cld;e bem erfoIgreid;en 
^reiSberaerbev gefidjcrt tonv. @ie (autetc, rcie folgt: 

American Pntlic l^ealtfj Association. 



^ t c :2 nt 6 ' f d; e n ^ r c t S a u f f a ^ e. 

,!^err .genrt) 2omh con 9^od)efter, 9^. g., ber BereitS 
bem amertfanifd^en ^ubltfum mol^lbefannte 3SeranIaffev 
bev „Soml6'fd;en ^reiSauffalje", offerirt burd) ben amevi- 
fanifdjen herein fiir offentHc^e ©efunbljeit^pflcge fiir baS 
laufenbe ^al)X jmei ^veij'e fiir folgenbeg 3;;I;ema: 

$ r a ! 1 1 f d^ e, f a ni t ct r e unb ! n m i f d^ e 

£ ii c§ e, $ e r f n en n n .m ii g t g e n 

unb g c r t n g e n Tlit tcln 

a n g e p a 5 t. 

©rfter ^rei§ $500, . . , -. 3roetter $ret§ $200. 

^ r e I § r id) t e r: ^rof. ^IjarleS 91. Sinbglet), 9^en) 
§a»en, ^onn.; ^rof. ©eo. ,0. ^iolje, Baltimore, 9?cb.; 
$rof. S5ictor 6. 5)augl)an, 5rnn 9lrbor, 9}tMc^. ; ^rau (J-aen 
§. 9^tc^arb§, 33Dfton, m<x\\r, %x\. (gmma 6. @. ^:pol[on, 
3Rcn) ^auen, ^onn. 

33 e b t n g u n g e n: ®a§ ^Irrangement be§ 5tuf[a^e§ 
ift bem ©utbiinfen beg 33erfaf[crg illberkffen. ©erfelbe 

(3) 



PEEFACE 



Perhaps there is no better way of presenting to the 
public the facts which led to the creation of this 
valuable work, than by inserting the announcement 
which resulted in the exceedingly lively and able 
competition for the prize, as well as the merited honor 
which was certain to fall upon the successful com- 
petitor. It read as follows : 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 



The Lome Pkize Essays. 

Two Prizes for 1888. 

Mr. Henry Lomb, of Rochester, N.Y., now well known 
to the American public as the originator of the "Lomb 
Prize Essays," offers, through the American Public 
Health Association, two prizes for the current year, on 
the following subject: 

Practical Sanitary and Economic CooKiNa 

Adapted to Persons of Moderate 

AND Small Means. 

First Prize, $500, - - - Second Prize, 



Judges: Prof. Charles A. Lindsley, New Haven, 
Conn.; Prof. George H. Rohe, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
Victor C. Vaughan, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, Boston, Mass.; Miss Emma C. G. Poison, 
New Haven, Conn. 

Conditions : The arrangement of the essay will be left 
to the discretion of the author. They are, however, 

(3) 



t)orrebc. iy 

folltc jebod^ in ber umfaffenbften unb fpec{fifd)ften SScife 
^od)met^oben forao^l, tuie forgfciltig auggearkitete dice 
5epte fur 3 (^laffen eut^ltcn, — 1) filr :geute Don ma^u 
gen SJ^itteln, 2) fiir 2nite mit gertngen ajiittein, 3) fur 
inih, hie arm genannt werben founen. giir jebe biefer 
bret graffen fottten ^iejepte gu brei tdgHd^en aJZa^r^eiten 
fiir mel^rere aufetnanber folgenbe ^age gegeBen roerben, 
luoBet jebe 9}Zar;r3eit ben leiblic^en S3eburfniffen gu ents 
fprec^en l^at unb Don ^ag ^u ^ag moglidfift »iel ^Ibrcec^gs 
lung bietet. ^Tud^ finb gormulare fiir groolf aj^ittagS^ 
inal)t5e{ten gu geben, welc^e fait nac^ bem 5Irbettgpta^ 
mttgenommen unb nieift fait gegeffen raerben fotlen. ^m 
tragHd^feit, Tj)xatti\d)e^ Strrangement, SSo^lfeir^eit unb 
©c^madf^aftigfeit foUten cereint Berurffid;t{gt raerben. 
2)er3n)e(f btefeg 2Serf§ tft biegnformation ber .I^au^frau, 
beren 33ebiirfntffen ha§ burc^fdmittlidie ^ocf)buc^ fc^lec^t 
angepafet tft, foraie ^inlenfung i^rer Srufmerffamfeit auf 
gutrdglic^e unb Dfonomijd)e SOZet^oben unb ^^ejepte. 

Side urn ben obigen ^reig gef^riebenenSIuffd^emiiffen 
IdngftenS big gum 15. (September 1888 in ben Jpanben beg 
©efretdrg, ^i\ Sruing 21. SSatfon, (Soncorb, $1^. ^. fein. 
Qeber Sluffo^ mu^ ein Motto l^aben, unb dUme unb 
5Xbreffe beg 55erfafferg mug i(;m in einem forgfdltig t)er= 
fiegelten S3riefcour)ert, auf beffen Slugenfeite ta^ Tlotto 
gefd^rieben fteljt, beigegeben fein. 

^ S^ad^bem iiber hie ^reigauffd^e entfc^ieben tft, merben 
hie (Jouoerte mit hen i^nen entfpredjenben ^D^ottog gei)ff= 
net unb ben ^erfonen, beren D^amen fic^ barin befinben, 
hie ^reife guerfannt. ®te iibriegen (Jouoerte merben, 
menu hie iljnen entfpred^enben Sluffd^e Don ben 35erfaffern 
nidjt reftamirt merben, Dom ©efretdr uneroffnet Derntd^^ 
tet. 

^einem ber D^id^ter ift hie ^reigberaerbung erlaubt. 

®ie 9tid)ter madien hie ^reigoert^eilung in ber jdl^r^ 
ridden 53erfammhtng beg 55ereing fiir iiffenttid^e ©efunb^ 
l^eitgpflege, 1888, befannt. 

©g xvixh gen)iinfd)t, ha^ hie obigen 2luffd^e in i^rem 



iv Preface. 

expected to cover, in the broadest and most specific 
manner, methods of cooking as well as carefully pre- 
pared receipts, for three classes, — ( 1 ) those of moderate 
means; (2) those of small means; (3) those who may be 
called poor. For each of these classes, receipts for three 
meals a day for several days in succession should be 
given, each meal to meet the requirements of the body, 
and to vary as much as possible from day to day. For- 
mulas for at least twelve dinners, to be carried to the 
place of work, and mostly eaten cold, to be given. 
Healthfulness, practical arrangement, low cost, and 
palatableness should be combined considerations. The 
object of this work is for the information of the house- 
wife, to whose requirements the average cook-book is ill 
adapted, as well as to bring to her attention healthful 
and ecconomic methods and receipts. 

All essays written for the above prizes must be in the 
hands of the Secretary, Dr. Irving A. Watson, Concord, 
N. H., on or before September 15, 1888. Each essay 
must bear a motto, and have accompanying it a securely 
sealed envelope containing the author's name and ad- 
dress, with the same motto upon the outside of the 
envelope. 

After the prize essays have been determined upon, the 
envelopes bearing the mottoes corresponding to the 
prize essays will be opened, and the awards made to the 
persons whose names are found within them. The re- 
maining envelopes, unless the corresponding essays are 
reclaimed by authors or their representatives within 
thirty days after publication of the awards, will be 
destroyed, unopened, by the Secretary. 

None of the judges will be allowed to compete for a 
prize. 

The judges will announce the awards at the Annual 
Meeting of the American Public Health Association, 
1888. 

It is intended that the above essays shall be essen- 
tially American in their character and application, and 



t)orrcbc V 

(5;i§nraftcr unb in itjxex ^(uiuenbung rccicntrid) amertfas 
nifdj [cin foUcn unb bartn rcerben bie ^id;ter cin J^nupts 
t)crbienft fe^en. 

®te (S^onhtrrenj ftefjt 35erfaffern uon irgenb etner DZas 
tionalttdt frei, afle 5(uf[ai3e nber miiffen in englifd^er 
(Spvctdje gffdjricBcn fcin. 

Eitmcf ^31. OTatson, © e f r e t d r. 

G; one orb, 9u .f»-r Scbrurr 1888. 

£)16ige§ S^ircurar rcurbe weit oerbreitct unb in "iicn o^an^ 
jen 3]ei\ ©taaten unb in ber „!l)ominion" ganaba uevs 
i)[fentlid)t, luaS jur gofge Ijatte, bag beim ©efretdr in ber 
fpecificirten >\cit [ i e B e n 3 i g '^In \ \ di} e iibcr ba§ an= 
gefiinbigte ^Ifjcma etnlicfcn. !^aS (F'intrcffen bicfer ^(ufs 
fdl^e erftredte fid) iiber cincn 3(^ttraum dou nafjeju fiinf 
iRonaten, unb [ie luurben faft ebenfo rnfc^, raie fie ein= 
gingcn, an hen ^orfil^enben be§ ^veigfommittecS iibers 
mittclt, mobuvd) 'i)a§ i^ommittee fiir feine liberauS arbeitg^ 
reid;e ^Jhifgabe ber ^^ritfnng l;inreid;enb ^cit erfjielt. ®ie 
(Sntfc^cibung ber ^tid;ter ronrbe in ber 16. ^s(^^)^'^^^<^^' 
fammhing be§ 35erein§ fiir offentHdje @efunbf)eit§pf(ege 
tt)ie folgt, befannt gemad;t: 

28 e r i d; t b e § £ ni m i 1 1 e e § it 6 e r hie 
S m B ' f c^ e n ^ r e i f e. 

^\)x Committee, raeldjcm bie ^htffdl^e iiber „$raftifc^e/ 
fanitdre unb iifonomifdje ^iid;e, g^erfonen tJon mdfiigen, 
Heincn unb geringen 5D^itteln angepagt" iiBerioiefen 
tt)urben, Beridjtet refpeftuotl, bajj e§ mitnac^benfUdjer unb 
forgfdltig eriodgenber 5(nfmerffamfeit hie naljeju 6 T^niy. 
enh ^uffd^e burd;gefel;en ^at, xveld)e il)m oorgelegt wiixc 
ben. 

©inige oon il;nen raaren tn Ijiibfc^er 3:t)penfc^rift t)er= 
fagt, bie nieiften aber TDoren BJ^anufcripte, unb einige Don 
i§nen raaren nid)t gerabe von hen leferlid^ften (^*()araf= 
teren, ein Umftnnb, ber, n)ie man jugcben juirb, fd^raerin 
hie ^[Sagfd^ale fiel, luenn man i[jn in 33erbinbung mit ber 
grogen ^al)i hex ^reisberaerber unb ber ^^(jatfad^e in ^Bes 



^ Preface. 

this will be considered by the judges as an especial 
merit. 

Competition is open to authors of any nationality, 
but all the papers must be in the English language. 

Irving A. Watson, 

Secretary. 
Concord, N. H., February, 1888. 

The above circular was extensively circulated and 
published throughout the United States and the 
Dominion of Canada, with the result of bringing to 
the Secretary, within the specified time, seventy essays 
upon the subject announced. The arrival of these 
essays covered a period of nearly five months, and 
they were forwarded to the Chairman of the Commit- 
tee of Award nearly as fast as received, thus giving 
the committee ample time for their exceedingly 
laborious work of examination. The decision of the 
judges was announced at the Sixteenth Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Public Health Association, and 
was as follows: 

Report of Committee on the Lome Prizes. 

Tour committee, to whom were referred the essays 
upon "Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 
Adapted for Persons of Moderate and Small Means," 
respectfully report that they have perused with thought- 
ful and considerate attention the three score and ten 
essays which were submitted to them. 

A few of them were presented in beautiful specimens 
of type-writing, but the great majority of them were in 
manuscript, and some of them not in the most legible 
characters, a circumstance which, it will be appreciated, 
became an important matter, when considered in con- 
nection with the large number of competitors, and the 
fact that many of their papers were each of several 
hundred pages in length. 



Porrcbc. vi 

rucffic^ttgung ^kl)t, ixi^ uiele bcv 3(uffal^e je etn paar f^uiis 
bert (Bcitcn lang roarcn. 

!4)ie ^Irbeit bc§ Committees refulttrte in bem cins 
ftimmigen 3iiG^f^^^^^"^6/ ^^i ^^^ ^^*f^^ ^reiS t)on|500 ber 
qSerfafferin be§ ?Uif[at^e§ mit bev ^hiffc^rift: „®ie fiinf 
9Zarjruugggrunblngen, burd^ praftifd^e D^e^epte illuftrirt" 
jujuerfennen fei. 

^l)v jlommittee, eriaubt fid^, fentcr ^u 16erid;ten, ha%, 
obfdjon fidf) unter ben iibrigen 69 eine "^In^aljl fel^r »ev; 
bienftDoder^luffa^e befanben, boc^ fcin ein5iger ben iibri? 
gen fo raeit iiberlegen wax, ia^ er fid; ben Seifad einer 
S)Zajoritdt 3I;reg Committee^ ervungen l^atte, uub eg wax 
and) feiner barunter, ber nii^t einige ^el)ler in feinen ^hu 
gaben entl^ielt, fo ha^ ^'i)X Committee fic^ nid^t bered^tigt 
glaubte, fie von biefem 3]erein burc^ 3w^^''^^""i^^^S eine§ 
$reife§ beftdtigen 3U laffen, unb unter hm anberen mar 
feiner, ber nic^t l^inter einigen ber 33ebingungen ^uriid? 
blieb, unter meld^en ber ^vei§ offerirt murbe, ober fonft 
einen 5(nftog megen literarifc^er SD^angel^aftigfeit gab. 

Sl)X Committee erlaubt fic^ ba^er, refpeftuod ^u Be^ 
rid^ten, ha^ unter bem i!^m Dorgelegten Sluffa^en jid) feis 
ner befanb, ben e§ be§ ^wdtcn $reife§ con $200 miirbig 
erfannte. 

®a§ Committee l^dlt e§ fiir eine ^pid^t, bei ber 3"^^' 
fennung be§ $reife§ auf hk ^^atfad^e D^ad^brudf ju tegen, 
ha^ t)on alien il;m Dorgelegten Sluffd^en ber t)oni^m au§s 
gerad^lte nic^t nur meit l^eroorragenb ber befteift, fonbern 
an(i} an unb fiir fid^ eine bemunberungSmiirbige Stbi^anbs 
lung iiber hen ©egenftanb hilhet. 

(Sr ift einfad^ unb flar in feiner ^arftetlung unb ben 
^laffen, an bie er gerid^tet ift, mo^l angepagt. 2Ber i^n 
Heft, mug gu feinen gefunben :2eljren 53ertrauen befommen 
unb fann nid^t cerfel^len, burd^ feine einfad^en 3?orfd^rif; 
ten, bie bIo§ auf bie forrefte ^(nmenbung mif[en[d)oftlid^er 
^rinjipien ber GT^emie unb ^l^t)fioIogie auf hie rid^tige 
33ereitung ber ©peifen fiir hk 3[Renfd^en bafirt finb, in ber 
Cod)funft 3U lernen. 



vi Preface. 

The result of the labors of the committee is, that by 
unanimious approval, the first prize of $500 is awarded to 
the author of the essay bearing this inscription, — " The 
Five Food Principles, illustrated by Practical Recipes." 

Your committee would further report that although 
there were among the remaining sixty-nine a number of 
essays of considerable merit, there was no single one so 
prominently superior to others as to commend the ap- 
proval of the majority of j^our committee, nor was there 
any which did not contain some errors of statement, which 
your committee did not feel justified in endorsing with 
the approval of this Association by the bestowal of a 
prize, or else which did not fail to meet some of the con- 
ditions upon which the prize was offered, or which was 
not otherwise objectionable because of literary defects. 

Your committee would therefore respectfully report 
that no essay was found among those submitted to them 
which they judged deserving of the second prize of $200. 

The committee consider it a duty, in awarding the 
prize, to emphasize the fact that of all the essays sub- 
mitted the one selected is not only preeminently the 
best, but that it is also intrinsically an admirable treatise 
on the subject. 

It is simple and lucid in statement, methodical in ar- 
rangement, and well adapted to the practical wants of 
the classes to which it is addressed. Whoever may read 
it can have confidence in the soundness of its teachings, 
and cannot fail to be instructed in the art of cooking by 
its plain precepts, founded as they are upon the correct 
application of the scientific principles of chemistry and 
physiology to the proper preparation of food for man. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

C. A. LiNDSLEY. 

George H. Rohe. 
V. C. Vaughan. 
EiiiiEN H. Richards. 
Emma C. G. Polson. 



Dorrebe. vii 

9te[peftuDlI unterbreitet Don 

(J. 51. Stnb^let). 
® e r g e ^. dl o tje. 

(grren §. &Hd)arb§. 
@ m m a 6. @. ^ I [ n. 

®a§ amertfanifdje ^ublifum fann ftc^ 311 btefem niii}- 
U(i)cn unb raevtljoollen 23eitra(5 3U bent, iua§ fetne grof^e 
Stvmee oon 5h-beitgleuten geBraud^t, ben bie§ men[d;en= 
fvennblidje 3BoI)[raDtIen eineS ^rioatMirgerS moglic^ ges 
mac^t ^at, @iM raiinfc^en. S)ie§ war ber filnfte ^retg, 
ben berfelbe 33urgevbnrd; btefel6e55evm{ttlung offertrt l)at, 
in ber ebelmiitfjtgen 5(6fid;t, babnrd; )6i§ ^n einem geratffen 
@rabe hie a}^ufj[eltg!ctten ^u l^eben, lueldje ber 302en[(^^eit 
in bem unermiib[td;cn ^ampfe unf g ®a[ein ^ufaCfen. 

®ag btefer 5(nf[al^ in bie .gcinbe jeber gamilie im Sanbe 
gelegt merben fonne, i]t foiDoljl fein ernfttic^fter aBnnfd;, 
tt)ie ber beg Slereing; e§ n)irb beljljtilb etn ^rei§, ber fanrn 
bie ^"often bedt, fnr biefen ^anh geforbert. dMn ^offt, 
ha^ ^egiernng§be|jartement§, ftaatUdje unb lotah ©e^ 
funbl§eit§bel;orben, ©anittitS^ nnb ^Bol^ttljatigfeitguereine, 
gabrifanten, Strbeitgeber Jc 2tu§gaBen gum ^oftenpreiS 
anfaufen ober anberraettig gnr 35erBreitung bie[e§ 2Berife§ 
untcr hem SSoIfe beitragen luerben. 

Obfd)on ha^ 35erlag6rcd;t auf biefc %n\\ai}e ^um gefet^i^ 
lichen (Bd)ui}c ge[id;crt i]i, fann bie ©rlaubnilj ^nr 53erof[= 
entlidjnng unter geruiffen ©ebingnngen erlangt raerben, 
xvcnn man fic^ an ben ©efretdr wenbct. 

aSir empfeljlen biefen 23anb bem ^^uBlifum in ber fibers 
jeugung, ha^ er cin 2Berf oljne @Ieid;en ift iiber „^ro!j 
tifdje, fanitare unb Honomifdje ^iid^c, ^erfonen Don 
mdgigen unb geringen 3!}titteln angepnjst. " 



JiTr^f cJ^ l^'Zc^cm. 



Scfretar bes amcrifanifd^en Percins fiir offenllid^e (Se[unbl^cits= 
pflege. 



TaUe of Contents. 

Legumes, _ 81 

Potatoes and other Vegetables, 83 

Fruits, 83 

The Cooking of Grains, _ 85 

Grains Cooked Whole, 85 

Cooking of Grits, 86 

Corn Flour, 87 

Graham Flour, 88 

Fine Wheat Flour, 89 

Macaroni and Noodles, 89 

Flour Raised with Fat, 91 

Flour Raised with Egg, 92 

Egg Pancakes, &c 93 

Flour Raised with Carbonic Acid Gas, 93 

(a) Yeast Raised, 

White Bread, 94 

Rye and Corn Bread, 97 

Biscuits, Rolls, &c 97 

Yeast Pancakes, _ . 99 

Buckwheat Flour, 100 

(p) Raised with Soda, 

Methods, 101 

Soda Biscuits, 103 

CJses of Biscuit Dough, &c 103 

Soda Corn Breads, 103 

Soda Pancakes, without Eggs, 103 

Soda Pancakes, with Eggs, 104 

Uses for Bread, „ ._ 105 

Simple Sweet Dishes, _ „._ 107 

Milk Puddings, 107 

Fruit Puddings, with Biscuit Dough, 108 

Fruit Puddings with Bread, 109 

Custard Puddings, 110 

Bread and Custard Puddings, 110 

Suet Puddings, 113 

Pudding Sauce, ._ 113 

Fritters, 113 

Cooking of Vegetables, 115 



Table of Contents. xi 

Soups without Meat, 117 

Vegetable Soups, - 117 

Flour and Bread Soups, 121 

Milk Soups or Porridges, 122 

Fruit Soups, 124 

Additions to Soups, 126 

Dumplings for Soups and Stews, 127 

Flavors and Seasonings, 130 

Drinks, -■ - -- 133 

Cookery for the Sick, 137 

Twelve Bills OF Fare — Explanation,... 143 

Class I. (with letter of advice to mother of the family), 143 

Class II - - 163 

Class III 164 

Twelve Cold Dinners, 176 



inl^iivcn^. 



(^§ gidt ircnigc ^incjc, hk ron grogercr 33ebcittung 
finb, ai^ ba^ xuix un§ IciuCid; unh geiftig uiifcrcr Xagegs 
ttvbeit gcn)ad;[cn fefjen, aUetnSSenige t)ou un^ finb fid; he- 
XDu^t, in n)ie gvDJjcm Tla^c bie§ oon bcr 5Raf)rung abs 
i^dngt, bie wiv geniegen. 

^Rel^mert roir an, eine beftimmte gamiHe ^aBe gerabe 
©elb gcnug, urn fic^ bie rid;tige ©orte unb Ouans 
titdt 9^af;rung faufcn ^u fonnen. ^cnn nun biefc§ @elb 
nid;t flug Dcrroenbet roirb, obcr bie D2af;rungQmittet nac^ 
bem ^auf bcim ^od;en Dcrberkn, fo ift ha^ D^efultnt filr 
hie 3Q^itgtieber bcr gamifie ein l)od)}t 16ebenftid;e§; fie 
werben fc§(ed)t gendljrt unb Biigen Don ber Maxljcit be§ 
^opfcS, i^rcr leibtidjcn (Stdrfe ein, unb foraeit ^inber 
baoon hexixljxt roevben, in il^rer jli)rperentn)id(ung. 

©id^er ift ber rid)tige jlorperjuftanb ju raidjtig, urn 
bem Siit^^ prci^igegebcn raevbcn ju biirfcn; fiir i(;n foils 
Un hie beften n)if[enfd;a[tHd;cn jlcnntniffe, bie praftifd;^ 
\kn ^i3pfe in ^nfprud) genommcn iDcrben, unb bic§ ges 
fc|ie§t and) tljatiadjiid} in gvojjem 9Jtagftab in ©uropa, 
TOO hie 9ta()rung ber ©olbatcn unb gnfuffcn offcntlid)er 
SlnftaCten me(;r ober rocniger nac^ gcroiffcn Dtcgeln gclies 
fert tuirb, hie tl;cilg an§ bcr 23eo6adjtung, t(jeit§ au§ 
u)iffenfd)aft(id)en (^rperimenten abgeleitct finb. 

SDie Slnroenbung inif[enfd;aft(idjcr ^n-in^^ipicrt auf bie? 
fe§ gad) i]t nod) ^icmlic^ ucu, bcnn bie Untcrfuc^ungen, 
bie fie feftftellten, finb noc^ perl^dttni^majig ueuen 3)a5 



INTRODUOTIOK 



Few things are of more importance than that we 
should find ourselves physically and mentally equal to 
our day's work, but not many of us realize how largely 
this depends upon the food we eat. 

Supposing there to be just money enough in a given 
family to buy the right kind and quantity of food. 
Now if this money is not wisely expended, or if after 
the food has been bought it is spoiled in the cooking, 
the results will be very serious for the members of 
that family; they will be under-nourished and they 
will suffer in clear-headedness, bodily strength, and 
in the case of children, in bodily development. 

Surely the right condition of the body is too im- 
portant to be left to chance ; the best scientific knowl- 
edge, the best practical heads should be at its service, 
and this is the case, indeed, to a large extent in Eu- 
rope, where the food of the soldiers and of the inmates 
of public institutions is furnished more or less ac- 
cording to certain rules that have been deduced 
partly from observation, and partly from scientific 
experiment. 

The application of scientific principles on these lines 
is not of long standing, for the investigations that have 
clinched them are all of comparatively recent date. At 



<5cfd?td^tc bcs Stubtums bcr Hal^rungsmittcl. 2 

tum§. 3^^ (Snbe be§ let^tcn S^^^^^^^j^^^^^^*^^ luurbe in 
granfreid) unb ®eut[d)Ianb tm 3"fciittnten^ang mit p^il= 
antl^ropt|d)en 33eftre6ungen mit 3)er6e[ferung ber $Ra^r= 
ung^mittel Don airmen ber Shifang gemadjt, unb in bie; 
fer 3ci^ fiifjrte @vaf ^umforb in ben SD^und^ner ©uppen^ 
anftadcn bie nac^ i(;m ibenantite ©uppe ein. Q]on biefer 
3eit an l^aben 9Zal^rung§mitte( fitr 9Jien[c^ert unb §au§5 
t^iere an ^ntereffe ftetig geraonnen, obfdjon bie (SrpeTt; 
mentatoren beftdnbig ^u fatfc^en ®d}lii[fen gelangten, 
weii hk ^iffen[d)Q[t ber Drganifd)en (Sijcmie unb ber 
^pi^pfiologie, foraeit fie anf biefen ©egenftanb Sejug l)a; 
ben, noc^ nid^t xvdt genug fortgefc^ritten raar. 

(5^rft in ben cierjiger S^^^^" raurben ©tationen fiir 
Slderbauerperimente erric^tet, bie fic^ jebod) fo rei^enb 
fd^nell t)ermel)rten, ha^ e§ chm in duropa attein beren 
me!^r al§ l^unbert gibt; unb in hki^n unb \)en 2cihoxai 
torien ber gro^en llniuerfitdten finb 5Inalt)[en ber meiften 
Don 3D^en|'d)en unb 3;;(jieren gebraud^ten 9k^rung§mittel, 
foraie ^proben iiber hie retatioe gleifd)^ unb gett bilbenbe 
^raft »er[(^iebener9^a!§runggmitte( unb 3^a^rung§mitte(= 
oerbinbungen angefteUt worben. 

;Oange ^aljre rourben hie S^efultate biefer Unter[ud)ungen 
mit 9^u^en ouf hie 35iel^fiitterung angeroenbet, a\lein 
erft ein gntt, in bem ©nglanb eine aUgemeine ,g)unger§2 
uot^ broljte, lenfte hie 2lufmerf[am!eit Don ^erfonen mit 
geeigneter S3itbung anf ein d^nlii^eg ©tubtum ber dlaiji 
runggmittel fiir SJ^enfc^en. SSd^renb unfereS 35iirger5 
!riege§ murbe hie 2ac^e hex SSaumraoUfpinner in ^^anca^ 
fl^ire unb (S;(;e[I)ire, (Jnglanb, eine fo bebenftid^e, ha^ hie 
^i'llfe ber D^egierung not^roenbig mar, urn fie vox bem 
^erljungern §u retten, unb 1862 unb 63 murbe ^Dr. (?bs 
marb @mit!^ beauftragt, hie bidtetifd^en ^ebiirfniffe ber 
bebrdngten 2(rbeiter §u pritfen. ^n feinem 33crid;t fiir 
1863 finben fid) ^abeUen ber con 634 gamitien per 
3Bod)e Der^eljrten 9^a(jrnng§mittc(, unb tro^ bcr einer 
foldjen Unterfudjung im 2Scge fteljcnbcn ©djraierigfeiten, 
murben hie uer^ei^rten 3^a^runggmitte( in jtabetten einges 



2 History of Food Stuay. 

the end of fche last century a beginning was made in 
France and in Germany in connection with philan- 
thropic efforts to improve the food of the poor, and it 
was at this time that Count Eumford introduced into 
the soup kitchens of Munich, the soup that has been 
named after him. From this time on interest in the 
subject of foods, both for men and domestic animals, 
steadily increased, although experimenters were con- 
stantly coming to wrong conclusions because the 
sciences of Organic Chemistry and Physiology, as far 
as they concerned the subject, were not far enough 
advanced. 

It was only in the early forties that the first ex- 
perimental agricultural stations were established, but 
so rapidly have they multiplied that they now number 
more than a hundred in Europe alone; and in these 
and in the laboratories of the great universities, 
analyses have been made of most of the foods used by 
men and animals, and also tests of the relative flesh 
and fat producing power of different foods and com- 
binations of foods. 

For years the results of these investigations have 
been applied with profit to the feeding of cattle, 
but it was a case of threatened wholesale starvation 
in England that first turned the attention of properly 
trained persons to a like study of the nourishment of 
human beings. During our civil war the condition of 
the cotton spinners in Lancashire and Cheshire, Eng- 
land, became so serious as to make government help 
necessary to keep them from starving, and in 1862 and 
1863 Dr. Edward Smith was commissioned to examine 
into the the dietetic needs of the distressed operatives. 



(£ngltfc^e (^orfdjungcn. 3 

tl^etlt, wdd)e 'i)ic Cuantitdten bcv uer|d)iebenen, uon jeber 
gamilie raod^entUd^ genoffenen9^a^rung§grunblagen au^s 
tDiefcn. 

(SineS bcr grogteit praftifd^en Df^efultate btefer tlnters 
fudjung tt)ar bie ^-eftftedung be§ 9Jtintina(betrag§ fofc^er 
Df^df^rgrunbtagen, wcldjcv fiir 9}Mnncr, ^rauen unb ilinber 
notljtuenbtg ift, urn [ie Bet gutcr ©cfinibljcit^u evl)nlten. 
@g f anb fid;, ba§ bie 9taf;vung§quantitdt, mittetft beren ein 
Tlcn^d), ber nid;tg ^u tljun l)ai, fid) beg^Serljungern^ unb 
ber barau§ entfpringenben ilranfi)citen enue^ren fann, 
huvd) 35 Unjen guten 33robc§ per ^ag unb hie notljraen^ 
bige Ouantitdt gcfuubcn SSaffcvs reprdfentirt ift. 

©cit ber 33crof|entIidjung uon ®r. (Smitl)'^ ^ertd^t 
ftnb dfjnHd) 3tad)for[d;ungen Don 9}?dnnern ber Stiffens 
fdjaft in anbeien Sdnbern angeftedt n)orben, unb e§ njurs 
ben Diele Slnahjfen bcr genaucn Ouantitdt unb ber Morten 
t)Dn 9ta()rung angeftedt, roeldjc unter hen mnnigfaltigften 
33ebingungen uon ner[d;iebcnen 3lrl6citerclaf|en genoffen 
rairb. ®ie ^rofefforcn ^oit nnh ^ettenfofer non 9}?iin* 
d)en ^bcn fogar iiber jebeg ^Zafjrung^t^ettc^en, ha§ hnvd) 
hm jtorper eine§ 3!}ianne§ ging, foraoljl wdfjrenb er ar; 
heitcte, wit xvcnn er miijjig ging, 9^ed)nung gcfiiljrt, ©ie 
^bcn ferner notirt, inie vki von feincm eigenen i?6rper 
t)erbraud;t raurbe, roenn er ntd)t§ a^. ©d^lieglic^ rcurben 
eine ^(njafjt ^urd;fd;nitt§bered)nungen angeftedt unb fos 
genannte „©tel)en,be ^dtregetn" cngefertigt, roorunter 
ik ®urd^fd)nittf^quantitdt ber l[}auptfdd)lid)ften 9^d!)rftoffe 
tjerftanben rcirb, n)eld)e ben burd)|d^nitt(id)en ^DZu^felar? 
Beiter in gutem ©tanbe erljdlt, rad^renb er feine burets 
fd)nittUd;e 5(rl6eit tjpvridjtet. 

Sebermann rcirb jugeben, ha^ e§ von groger 33ebeu5 
tung ift, inenn ber garrner xvd^, wic vid ^en unb anbc; 
re§ gutter er jurSBinterfiitterung feinc^S 33iefj'3 ttnjulegen 
l^at; bie ^ttjiere miiffen gebeiljen, aBer e§ barf teine 3]er; 
fd)n)enbung ftattfinben, inbem i(jnen ha§ gutter In um 
rid^tigen Guantitdten ober ^roportionen gelitfert roirb. 

giir bie ilpuuSfrau fann bie (SrndfjrungSfrage in i(;rer 



^ English InvesfigatioM, 

In his report for 1863 are found tables of the food con- 
sumed per week by 634 families, and in spite of the dif- 
ficulties standing in the way of such an investigation, 
the foods consumed were classified into tables showing 
the amounts of the different food principles taken 
per week by each family. 

One of the great practical results following from 
this investigation was the determination of the mini- 
mum amount of each nutritive principle which men, 
women and children need, to keep them in fair health. 
The amount of food with which an unemployed man 
can fight off starvation, and the diseases temporarily 
incident to it, was found to be represented in 35 ounces 
of good bread per day, and the necessary amount of 
wholesome water. 

Since the publication of Dr. Smith's report similar 
inquiries have been instituted by the scientists of other 
countries, and many analyses have been made of 
the exact amount and kinds of food eaten by various 
classes of laborers under the most varied conditions. 
Professors Voit and Pettenkofer of Munich have even 
accounted for every particle of food that passed 
through the body of a man, both while he was at work 
and while he was idle. They have also noted how 
much of his own body was consumed when he ate 
nothing. Finally, a great number of averages have 
been taken and so-called '' standard dietaries" con- 
structed, by which is meant the average amount of 
each of the chief food principles that keep an average 
muscle-worker in good condition, when doing aver- 
age work. 

Every one will admit that it is of great importance 



^niDcnbungcn auf ben ^ausl^alt. 4 

53e^tc!§ung auf \>ic ^amilte in ganj benfelben 23orten au§; 
gebriirft roerben. (S§ ift tDtdjtig, ba§ fie ofonomifd^ cer; 
fd^rt, aber ber 2Seg, ben fie babei ju ge^en ^at, roirb fiir 
fie uott uon ^atlgruben fein, rocnn fie nid;t oerftel^t, raag 
mixU\d)t Ofonomie l^eigt. ^ie meiften ^eute ^ahcn bet 
aCfem roirHicfien ^ntereffe, ha^ fie an ber ©ac^e ncl^men, 
in maud^cn ^^ebengperioben geraiffe SiebIing§t^eorien be; 
treffg ber D^a^rung. ^n ^eiUn waxen fie Dielleidjt libera 
jeugt, ha^ hie meiften :2eute ^u viel effen, 3U anberen 
aber, bag S^^if^ ^'^^ aUgemeine £raftmitte[ fei, ober 
roaren fie mit ber ^egetarianerfud^t bel^aftet, unb xva^ 
fiir fpe^ielle Slnfc^auungen fie and) ge!^abt ^ben mogen, 
ftet§ ^aben fie jebenfaUS gegloubt, ha^ \ie auf '^IjaU 
fad^en beru^^en. ©id^er aber fatten fie il^re Uberjeugun^ 
gen nid^t auf eine einfetttge i)iat oerpid^t, raenn fie hie 
§auptt^atfac^enber(Srna^rung rairflic^ cerftanben l^dtten. 
feir glauben, tnenn biefe $:^atfarf)en, raie fie gegenradrttg 
auggelegt raerben, unb hie SSetterfal^rung hei iljxex 5(n= 
raenbung ber .!^ou§frau jur 55erfiigung gefteUt raerben 
Bnnen, ha^ fie btefelben bann mit grogem ©eroinn ^u 
oerroert^en im ©tanbe ift. 

SSir l^aben ben 2(u§brudf „5Ra^rung§grunbragen" anges 
raenbet; mag aber cerftel^en mir unter bemfelben? 3^^^^' 
mann rvei^, wa^ unter einem 9?a^rung§mittel oerftanben 
mirb, mie ^teifc^ ober ©rob, unb jebermann meig, ha^ 
hie ^al;rung§mitte[, meli^e unfere gteifc^er unb ©pejerei; 
l^dnbler un§ liefern, aug bem ^l;ier; unb ^ftan^enreic^e 
ftammen. ^er ©auerftoff, ben mir einatlf^men, unb ha§ 
Staffer, ba§ mir trtnfen, liefert un§ bie 9^atur fo gu fagen 
bireft, obfc^on, ungliidflidf)ermeife fiir 33iele unter ung unb 
befonberS fiir Heine £inber, ber erftere nid;t al§ ^^a^rs 
unggmittel betrad^tet mirb. 2(uger bem ©auerftoff ents 
l^alten, rcie^iejenigen, melc^e bie (Bad^e ju il^rem ©tubium 
gemad^t (jaben, fanben, atle 9ta!^rung§mtttel einen ober 
me^rere 33eftanbt]^eile oon fiinf (Jtaffen, meld;e „9^a^r5 
unggi^ngrebien^ieu" ober ,,3ia^rungggrunblagen'' ges 
nannt merben* 



4 Applications to tlie Household. 

for the farmer to know in what proportion he shall 
lay in hay and other food for the winter feeding of 
his stock; the animals must thrive, but there must 
be no waste by furnishing food in the wrong quanti- 
ties or proportions. 

For the housewife, the food question in its relation 
to her family can be stated in the yery same words. 
It is important that she shotild economize, but her 
23ath will be full of pitfalls if she does not understand 
in what true economy consists. Most people with a 
real interest in this subject, have had at some period 
of their lives certain pet theories as to food. Per- 
haps they have been at one time convinced that most 
people ate too much, at another, that meat was the 
all strengthener, or they may have been afflicted 
with the vegetarian fad, and whatever their special 
views have been they have thought that they rested 
them upon facts. But surely they would never have 
pinned their faith to one-sided diets if they had 
rightly comprehended the main facts of nutrition. 
We believe that if these facts as at present interpreted, 
and the world's experience in applying them, can be 
put at the command of the housewife, she can use 
them to great profit. 

We have employed the term '^food principles"; 
what do we mean by it ? Everyone knows what is 
meant by a food, as meat or bread, and everyone 
knows that the food offered us by our butchers and 
grocers comes from the animal and vegetable king- 
doms. The oxygen we breathe and the water we 
drink nature furnishes for us directly, so to speak, 
though unfortunately for many of us, and especially 



italjrungsgrunblagcrt. 6 

SDiefe fiinf ©runblagen finb: 

(1) 3Saffer. 

(2) ^roteinforper, 

(3) %dte. 

(4) ^o^lenl^pbrate. 

(5) ©al^e ober mtncraUfd^e ^Seftanbtl^eiTe. 

SB a f f e r . 

@§ tft t)on 33ebeutung, ju Bemerfen, ha^ unfer £6rper, 
it)enn er auggeroad^fen tft, ju ^raei ^rtttern aii§ 2Saffer 
befteljt, unb ha^ unfere S^Zal^rung jictfdjen 1 — 94 ^rojent 
bat)on entl^alt. Bet bent 3"^e(fe biefcr ^Ibljanbhing mu§ 
ba§felbe alg 9^al§rung§mtttel fid^ felbft itberlaffen bleis 
ben. 

$ r t e t n f i) r p e r. 

@tne (^(a[fe con nal;e mit etnanber oerraanbten ^orpern 
ift unter btefer dinhxit einbegriffen. ^te gan^e (Slaffe 
icirb ^uraetlen auc^ mit „@tn)ei^ftoffen" Bejeic^net. 

®te §au§frau fennt ©troetporper tn 9^al^rung§mitteln 
rate magere§ %id\d), @ter unb ^afe. 3)iefe entljalten 
bie ©runblage tn Der[c§iebenen ^roportionen. 3. 33. 

®a§ 9[)lagere atn glei[(^ :^at = 15-21 ^ro^. 

@ier tm SSeigen unb tm 3)otter ; 12.5 ^roj. 

grtfc^e ^ul^mtlc^ tm 2)urd;[d§nitt = 3.4 ^roj. 

£afe '. . '. c '. 25-30 ^roj. 

©etrocfneter ©tocfftfc^ -^ = 30 g^roj. 

^Begetabilien !^aben raentger ^roteinforper, obfcl^on 
©etretbe unb .^ulfenfriid^te otel bacon entf;alten. 

SSeijenmepijat = = = 10-12 ^roj. 
@rb[en, 33oI;nenunbSin[enf;aben 22.85-27.7 g^-roj. 



S Food Principles. 

for young children, the former is not thought of as a 
food. Oxygen aside, it has been found by those who 
have studied the matter, that all foods contain one or 
more of five classes of constituents, called ** nutritive 
ingredients" or "food principles." These five prin- 
ciples are: 

(1) Water. 

(2) Proteids. 

(3) Fats. 

(4) Carbohydrates. 

( 5 ) Salts or mineral constituents. 

WATER. 

It is important to note that our bodies when full- 
grown are two-thirds water, and that our food con- 
tains from 1 to 94^ of it. Considering the scope of 
this essay, it must be left to take care of itself as a 
food. 

PROTEIDS. 

A class of nearly allied bodies is included under 
this head. The whole class is sometimes called 
"Albumens." 

The housewife is familiar with proteids in such 
foods as the lean of meat, in eggs and cheese. These 
contain the principle in various proportions ; for 
example, 

Lean of meat has . . _ 15-21 ^ 

Eggs in both white and yolk - - 12.5^ 
Fresh cows' milk on an average - - 3.4^ 

Cheese 25-30 ^ 

Dried Codfish 30 ^ 



^aljrungsgruttblagctt. ^ 

3n frtfd^en^Scgetabilien finben wixhlo^ | — 3 g^rojcnt, 
mit 9lu§na]^me t)on griinen (SrBfen unb 33o]^nen, in rael^ 
d^en bie ^rotetnlforper etrte proportion t)on 5 — 6.5 txc 
reid^en. 

%dU tv^alt man t)om ^^ierreid^ fott)ol§[, rale uom 
^flan^enreic^. 'Die Beim ^oc^en i)on un^ uerroenbeten 
ftammen meift uon Zljicvm l^er unb finb ber .gauSfrau 
aU 33utter, (Bd)mal^ unb ^alg hdamit. S^egetabilifd^e 
9^a^rung ift in ber die^d fefjr arm an ^dten, 'i^a fie Ho§ 
3toi,Y;cn — 3 ^rojent baoon ent^cilt. 

We^xexc (Serealien, mie 9JZai§ unb §afer, ent^alten 4 
—7 ^roaent ^ctk, 

^ 1§ I e n If; t) b r a t e. 

®ie al§ „^o^(en^r)brate" flaffificirten £oxper finben 
fid^ ^auptfdc^licf) in 35egetabilien. Die ^auSfrau fennt 
fie al§ ©tdrfmeljl unb ^udcx. 

Unter bem eigentlidien ©tdrifmel^r finb Dinge einBe^ 
griffen, mie "oa^ (Stdrifmel^t im ©etreibe unb in ©dmers 
eien, im islanbifc^en 90^oo§, @ummi unb Dextrin. 

3D^i(d^ ift eine§ ber raenigenti^ierifd^en (Sr^eugniffe, ha^ 
mel^r al§ eine fel;r Heine Ouantitdt oon ^ol^lenl^pbraten 
entl^dlt. ©ie l^at im Durd^fd^nitt ctma 4.8 ^rojent t)on 
biefer ^Ral^rungSgrunblage, eine ^leinigiteit mel^r alg 
^roteinforper ober }^ette, 

® a 1 3 e. 

Die Dinge, xx)cld)e unferen ^nod^en .l^drte oerteiljen, 
mie pl;o§pl;orfaurer £alf unb ha§ gerooljulid^e ©alj, mit 
bem mir unfere ©peifen milrgen, iHuftriren biefe Staffe. 



6 Pood Principles. 

Vegetables are more deficient in proteids thougli 
the grains and legumes contain much of it. 

Wheat flour has - - - 10 to 12 </o 
Peas, beans and Lentils have 22.85 to 27.7^ 

In fresh vegetables we find only from -h, to 3^, 
excepting green peas and beans in which the proteids 
reach 5 to 6.5^. 

FATS. 

Fats are obtained from both the animal and veg- 
etable kingdoms. Those used by us in cookery come 
mostly from animals, and are known to the house- 
wife as butter, lard and tallow. Vegetable food as a 
rule, is very poor in fats, containing from to 3^ 
only. 

Some of the cereals, like corn and oats contain 
from 4 to 7^ of fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 

The bodies classed as ^^carbohydrates" are found 
mainly in vegetables. The housekeeper knows them 
as starches and sugars. 

Under the starches proper are included such 
things as the starches of grains and seeds, Iceland 
moss, gums and dextrin. 

Milk is one of the few animal products that has 
more than a very small quantity of carbohydrates. 
It contains on the average about 4.8^ of this prin- 
ciple ; — slightly more than of either proteids or fats. 

SALTS. 

The things that give hardness to our bones, like 



(^unftioncn ber protctnforper. 7 

g u n ! 1 1 n e n b e v 9^ a I) r u n g g g r u n b I a g t n. 

Urn 3U raiffen, tn roelc§en 3?er^altn{ffen btefe 9Zal^rung§; 
grunblagen in iinferer ®tat reprcifentirt fein foUten, 
miiffen ratr bie Df^oUe er[or[d;en, tt)cld)e jebe x)on iljntn tm 
£or|)er fptelt. 3)ie erfte mtb le^te ©runblage fijnnen 
rair !uq abmadjcn. ®ie erfte, 3[Baffer, tft ba§ groge 
SJlittel, rvdd)c§ hk ®tnge biirdj ben £orper fdjraemmt. 
!3)te let^te, bie (Bah^c, Derbtnbet \\d) auf t)evfd;iebene 
2Betfe mtt ben feften unb ftiifftgtn Seftanbtl^etkn unferer 
©peifen, iinh wiv lonnen ntd)t Ietd;t an cinem 5Wangel[ 
berfelBen ju leiben I;aben, 

®te anberen bret 9f^al;rnng§grunbl[agen (rotr raollen fie 
in ben fotgenben (Bcitm bie brei grogen D^a^rnngggrunb; 
lagen nennen), itiinnen voiv nic§t fo fummarifc^ 16el;anbe(n. 
3Sir ifonnen furj unb bogmatif(^ f og^n, '^o.i ^^^ ^votdnfbxi 
per^gleifc^erjeuger", biegette^SSarmeerjeuger'', bieJloljs 
len^pbrate ^i^rafterjeuger" ftnb. ^^t hen .gauptpunften 
ftimmen hk (Srperimentatoren ftc^er iifierein, allein hie 
t)er[d;iebenen ©d)ulcn liegen fid^ nod} ul6er bie enbgiltigcn 
(Srfltirungen unb liBer ricle ©injelljeiten in hen S^aaxen, 
unb t§ 'i)at \id} mef;r unb meljr erraiefen, baj^ mix hie 9(r; 
beit be§ ^orper§ nidjt in biefem ein[adjen ©tile al6ttjeilen 
fonnen. Obfd)on man Bef;aupten fann, ha^ jebe biefer 
brei groj^en S^al^rungSgrunblagen eine ^^ieHinggrode t)at, 
bie fie Beffer fpielen faun, al§ trgenb eine anbere, finben 
wix bo(^, ha^ jebe, rcie ein guter ©(^aufpieter mit Diets 
feitigem talent, me!§r aU eine Otode auf bem 9^epertotr 
^at. 

g u n ! t i n e n b e r ^ r o t e i n f o r p e r. 

^a^ biefe (piaffe unentbefjriid) ift, bafiir T^alGen luir hie 



7 Functions of Food Principles. 

calcium phosphate, and the common salt with which 
we flavor our food, illustrate this class. 

FUNCTIONS OF FOOD PRIN-CIPLES. 

To know in what proportion these food principles 
should be represented in our diet, we must inquire 
into the part played by each of them in the body. The 
first and the last principle may be dismissed briefly. 
The former, water, is the great medium which floats 
things through the body ; the latter, salts, are com- 
bined in various ways with the solids and fluids of 
our foods, and we shall not easily suffer from lack of 
them. 

The other three food principles (let us call them in 
the following pages the three great food principles), 
cannot be so summarily dealt with. We might say, 
briefly and dogmatically, that the proteids are "flesh 
foods," the fats are "heat foods," the carbohydrates 
" work foods." To be sure, experimenters are agreed 
on the main points, but the different schools are still 
at war on the final explanations and on many details, 
and it has become more and more evident that we 
cannot portion off the work of the body in this sim- 
ple style. Though each of the three great food prin- 
ciples can be said to have a favorite part which it 
plays better than any other, yet we find that like an 
actor of varied talents, it has more than one r61e in 
its repertoire. 

FUNCTION^ OF PROTEIDS. 

That this class is indispensable we have the best 
of proofs. It must be given us in one or another of its 



^unhioncn bet protein! orpcr. 8 

Bcften ^Beioeifc. ©ic miiffen un§ m ber etnen ober on? 
bern gorm gegeBen roerben, benn fetbft oI;ne \)a^ rair 5lt!§le^ 
ten ftnb, Beftef)t beinal^e bte ,gidl[te unfereS ^orper§ au§ 
3D^u§feln, bie ju einem giinftel qu§ ^roteinforperiigebtl; 
bet roerbett, unb ber ©tirfftoff in biefen ^^roteinforpern 
!ann raieberum blo^ burd^ ^roteinforper geliefert loer^ 
ben, ha er weber in getten norf) in ^o^Ien^^braten ent= 
l^alten ift; mix miiffen balder 6ei ber ^uf^^i^^^^ttft^t^w^S 
von ©peifefarten eingebenf fein, ha^ ^roteinforper jum 
SSad^fen nnb gum Slrbeiten, ja fogar gang untl^attge ^ros 
teinforper, roie ^x, ©mit!^ gefunben l;at, $r.otein!i)rper 
Braucfien, unb bog e§ in feiner ber anberen 9^a^rung§s 
grunblagen etroaS gibt, maS t)oIlftdnbtg i^re ©telle 3U 
oertreten Dermag. 

OBfd^on rair un§ unter ^roteinforpern meift ein 16e= 
beutenbeg 30^ittel jum 3luf6au unb gur Of^eftauration be^ 
Setbe§ Dorftellen, f onnen fie aud^ 6i§ gu einem geraiff enOrabe 
Sett liefcrn, menn fie in geraiffen 3Ser^dltniffen 3U ben 
getten unb .^ol^lenl^pbraten unferer D^al^rung fte^en, unb 
Don ©rperimentatoren mirb oerfid^ert, bag fie am^ ^il^e 
unb 3D^u§!eI!raft unter gerciffen 33ebingungen ergeugen. 

2Ba§ hk beiben le^teren Xl^dtigfeiten anbelangt, fo 
roerben fie barin inbeffen Don %dtcn unb ^ol^tenl^tjbraten 
meit in hen ©(fatten gefteHt. 2Bir hdxa<i)im fie baiter 
aU hie ©tidfftofflieferanten fiir unfere ©eroebe unb ^u- 
gleic^ al§ hie bebeutenbften ©timulantien unter ben D^al^; 
runggmitteln, meld^e, raie fie, ben ^orper gur ftdrferen 
3Serbrennung anberer anreigen. 

Wlannex hex SBiffenfd^aft raaren einft ber ^Infid^t, bag 
unfere 2)iugfelfraft i^auptfdd^lic^ ^rotein^orpern ent-. 



8 Function of Proteids. 

forms, for, even if we are not athletes, nearly one half 
of our body is made up of muscle which is one fifth 
proteid, and the nitrogen in this proteid can only be 
furnished by proteid again, since neither fats nor car- 
bohydrates contain any of it ; therefore in making up 
bills of fare, let us remember that growing and working 
proteid, yes, even idle proteid as Dr. Smith found, 
needs proteid, and that there is nothing in any of 
the other food principles that can entirely take its 
place. 

Though we think of proteid mostly as a great body 
builder and restorer, it can also to some extent fur- 
nish fat when it stands in a certain relation to the 
fats and carbohydrates of our food, and we are assured 
by experimenters that it also furnishes heat and mus- 
cle energy under certain conditions. 

In these last two activities, however, it is far ex- 
celled by fats and carbohydrates. We shall therefore 
think of it as the nitrogen-furnisher of our tissues, 
and also as the grand stimulant among foods, incit- 
ing the body, as it does, to burn up more of other 
kmds. 

Scientists, at one time, held the opinion that our 
muscle energy comes chiefly from proteids. This view 
has been abandoned, but many a working man still 
believes that meat is the only kind of food that is of 
any account; he thinks of fats and starches as quite 
unimportant comparatively. Now it has been proved 
over and over again, that we can combine meat with 
fats and vegetable food in such a proportion that it 
shall play only its main r61e, viz., that of building 
and restoring, while these latter furnish the heat and 



^nnfixontn ber ^ette unb 'Ko\:ihniiybvait. 9 

ftamme. !3)ie[e Slnfc^auung ift aufgegeben icorben, nifcin 
mand^er 2lr6eit§mann glaitbt nod;, ha^ ^teifdf) baS einjige 
9f^af;runggmittel Don ^etang fet; gette nnb ©tdrfme^l 
^ali er fiir t)er'^altnigma^{g nnbebeutenb. 9^un Ijai fid^ 
aber tntmer unb tmnter rateber erraiefen, bag rair gleifc^ 
mtt getten unb t)egetabilifd;en 9ZaI;rung§mttteln in einer 
fold^en proportion oerbtnben !onnen, bag e§ blo§ feine 
.l^auptrolle ju fpieCen Dermag, namlid) Vic be§ 3lu[bauen§ 
unb 9^eftaurtren§, racil^renb bie le^teren bte notljige 
SScirme unb 3[Ru§!elfraft Itcfern. ^rotein^ltige Dlafjv; 
nng tft ein fo !oftfpieltger 3lrti!el, bag fie nic^t 5U einer 
5(rbett :)ern)enbet raerben fann, hie mtt billigerem SD^ate^ 
rial fogor nod; Bcffer geleiftct raerbcn !ann. 

g u n c t i n e n ber ^- eit c, 

^ie gette r;aBen ebenfadS mer;r al§ etn ^Imt tm .^or^ 
per ^u ner[er;en. ©te fonnen al§ Setbe^fett aufge[petd; = 
ert ober aud; tjerbrannt rcerben unb geben 2Sarme ah, 
and) fonnen fie, n)entgften§ inbirefter SBeife, a(§ OueHen 
Don 9J^u§!el!raft bienen, 

g u n c t i n e n ber ^ T; I e n I; t) b r a t e. 

jDte ^yial^rungSgrunblage ber £oI;Ienf;i;brate liefert un; 
fern ©eraeben gett unb tft eine Ouetle ber 3Sarine unb 
90^u§!er!raft, tn ber 3:I;at hk ^:)an^t(\ncUc ber mn§UU 
ifraft in jeber gen)i)(;nnd;en ^iat. 

© e tD ii r ^ e. 

95t§ je^t ]^aBen wtr r;auptfa(^nc^ bte rairfltd^en, arbei; 
tenben 23eftanbtl;cile ber 9tar;rung tin 5(uge gelf;abt, wenn 
wix un§ fo ausbriiden biirfen. ^ie(e ^inge aber fonnen 
nid;t in obiger 2Beife ftubirt ober flaffifictrt werben; fie 



9 Function of Fats and Carbohydrates. 

muscle energy needed. Proteid food is such a costly 
article that it will not do to put it at work which 
cheaper material can do even better. 

FUNCTION OF FATS. 

The fats also have more than one office in the body. 
They can be stored as body fat, or they can be burned 
and give off heat, and they may also serve as a source 
of muscular energy, in an indirect manner at least. 

fu:n"ction" of carbohydrates. 

The Carbohydrate principle furnishes fat to our 
tissues, and is a source of heat and muscle energy, 
indeed the chief source of muscle energy in all ordi- 
nary diets. 

FLAVORINGS. 

So far we have had chiefly in mind the real work- 
ing constituents of food, if we may so speak. But 
many things cannot be studied or classified in the 
above way; they must be looked at from another 
point of view. 

Thus, a pinch of pepper, a cup of coffee, a fine, 
juicy strawberry, — what of these? They may con- 
tain all five of the food principles, but who cares for 
the proteid action or carbohydrate effect of his cup 
of good coffee at breakfast, or what interest for us 
has the heating effect of the volatile oil to which the 
strawberry owes a part of its delicious taste? 

Surely the economical housekeeper who would 
throw out of the list of necessaries all the things that 
tickle the palate, that rouse the sense of smell, that 



<5cG)ur^e. \o 

miifyen tjon etnem anberen @eftd)t§pun!te Betrad^tet raer? 
ben. 

2[Sa§ tft fo iibcr eine ^rife ^feffer, etne 3:affe Coffee, 
etne fd;one, [aftige (grbbeere 511 fagen? ©ie fonncn aHe 
fiinf D^al^rungggrunblagen entl^alten, alletn toer gtBt eU 
raag urn bte $ortetn;2Btr!ung ober ben ©ffeft ber ^oI;Iens 
Ijpbrate tn feiner ^affe guten Jl^affeeg beim griU;ftu(f, 
ober n)e(d)e§ 3^:teref[e l)at fiir un§ bte n)armeer5engenbe 
SSirfnng be§ flud;tigen OeleS, n)eld§em bie (Srb6eerc 
etnen ^f;ei( t!}re§ belifaten @efd;ma(feS Dcrbanft? 

©idjer abet railrbe bic o!onomifd)e J^an^fran, hie aUCe 
3)inge, bie ben ©aumen ftl^ln, ben ©erudjsftnn ans 
rcgcn, bem 3(uge gefdlTtg [tnb nnb nnfere ermiibeten S^ers 
uen rci^en, nu§ ber Stfte ber nDt!)n)enbigen ©inge 
ftrid;e, eben tDctl btefe ®inge nnr raenig D^al^rs 
nng ^ntljalten, einen fd^raeren geF;ler begel^en. ©te 
fann ratffen, wa§ fiir g-Ieifd;[d)nitten fie jn faus 
fen Ijat, tt)a§ fiir 33egeta6tlien am gefiinbeften unb 
ofonomifdjften finb, aber raenn fie ntdjt oerfteljt, rate fie 
,,ben 9JZnnb radffern mad;en" !ann, ift tfjre ^;ttrl6eit gro§; 
tentl^eil§ cergeBlii^. ©anj befonberS raenn fie raentg 
©elb ^nt, fodte fie biefem ©egenftanb an^nel^menbe 5(nfi 
nter!fam!ett guraenben, benn bn§ tft hie einjige 5Irt unb 
2Beife, me ber ^orper vexaxiia^t raerben !ann, etnfod^e 
9ta[;rung§mittel mit ©rqutdung in fid^ anfjunel^men. 

T)ie 2i]ie biefer ©pejereien, ©eraiirje, l^armlofen @e? 
trdnlfe u, bg.L ift eine htnge. Ungntdlid;crt:ueife IjaBen 
rair fein umfaffenbeg 2Bort, ba§5.HIeg von biefer ©orte in 
fid^ Begreift, von einem ^eterftlienfc^ogling an Bi3 gur 
^affe ^affee. ®ie ®eutfd;cn ncnnen fie „@enu6- 
mittcl'' (''Pleasure gibmcj 2r{)ings"). 



10 Flavorings, 

please the eye and stimulate our tired nerves, just 
because these things contain but little food, would 
make a grave mistake. She may know just what cuts 
of meat to buy, what vegetables are most healthful 
and economical, but if she does not understand how 
to '*make the mouth water," her labor is largely lost. 
Especially if she has but little money, should she pay 
great attention to this subject, for it is the only way 
to induce the body to take up plain food with relish. 
The list of these spices, flavors, harmless drinks 
and the like, is a long one. Unfortunately, we have 
no comprehensive word that will include everything 
of the sort, from a sprig of parsley to a cup of coifee; 
the German calls them ** Genuss-mittel " — '' pleasure- 
giving things." 

PROPOETIOKS Aiq'D AMOUI^TS OF FOOD PRINCIPLES. 

We have brought our discussion of the three great 
food principles to the point where we can enquire in 
what proportions and amounts these should be repre- 
sented in our diet. 

The standard daily dietary that is most frequently 
cited, and which, perhaps, best represents the food 
consumption of the average European workman in 
towns, is that proposed by Prof. Voit. This dietary 
was made upon the basis of a large number of ob- 
served cases. It demands for a man of average size, 
engaged in average manual labor, 

Proteids.* Fats. Carbohydrates. 

118 gms. 56 gms. 500 gms. 

Now it is the opinion of all competent judges, that 

*28. 34 grams. = 1 oz. 



Stcljenbe DiStrcgcIn. x X 

'^voporiioncn unb Oua it tit li ten ber ^aljc 
vungSgrunblagen. 

2Sir finb tit unferer ^tScuffion iiBer bie bret grogeit 
D^a^jrungggrunbragen auf ben $unft gefommen, rao xvix 
unter[uc|en fonnen, in raelc^en ^roportionen unb Ouan= 
titaten fie in unferer ©itit reprcifentirt fein foKten. 

3)ie om (jdufigften citirte tagtidje ©idtrege^, bie vicU 
hid)t hen D^al^rungguerbraud^ be§ burd§[c^;nittrid^en euro= 
pdifc^en Slrbeit^manneS in :2anb=Ort[c§aften am beften 
reprdfentirt, ift bie von $rof ^oit Dorgefc^lagene. S)ie[e 
©idtregel ift auf ber ^a\i^ einer grogen ^tnjaljt beo6ac^= 
teter gdtte aufgefteEt raorben. (gie oerlangt fur einen 
3^enfc§en Don ^urdifd^nittggrijge, ber ^anbarBeit gu oer. 
ricf)ten i^at, 

^roteinforper.* %ettc. ^o^renljribrate. 

118 ©ramm. 56 ©ramm. 500 ©ramin. 

9^un finb ade fompctenten ©ac^oerftdnbigen ber 5In= 
ftc^t, ba^ raenigfteng ein ©rittet biefer ^roteinforper bent 
^t^ierreic^ entnommen tnerben foUte, unb hie\e§ '^vittcl, 
roenn eg in ber gorm von frifc^em D^inbfleif^ gegeBen 
rvixh, raitrbe burc^ 230 @ramin glcifc^ au§ bem 
SD^e^gerlaben reprdfcntirt fein, beffen ^eftanht^eiU^ rvic 
folgt, Bere^net njerbcn: 

tnod^en unb gtedjfen = := = 18 ©ramm. 

i^^tt '^ = = = = . 21 , 

3}iagereg gleifd^ =55; 191 
^ SSenn roir gait^e ^euiilferungen in SSerucffid^tigung 
Sie^en, finben rair, bog inenig gleifc^, raenn ixhcxijanpt, 
nte^r nuf ben ^Int^eir einer $erfon per 2:og fommt. 3)er 
S)urd;[c!)nittgfonfutn per Zaa, rairb fo, fitr brei groge 
^tahtc, wic fofgt, feftgeftedt: 

^t-rlin . ', = 135 ©ramin per £opf. 

S^ett) 2)orf . . 226 

bonbon ; ; ; 274 

*28.34 ©romm == 1 Unje. 



11 Standard Dietaries. 

tit least one third of this proteid should come from 

the animal kingdom, and this one third, if given in 

the form of fresh beef, would be represented by 230 

grams of butcher's meat, calculated to consist of 

Bone and tendon, - - - - 18 gms. 

Fat, 21 '' 

Lean, 191 " 

When we take whole populations into account, we 

find that little, if any, more meat than this falls to 

each person per day. Thus the average consumption 

per day for three great cities is given as follows; 

Berlin, _ - - - 135 gms. per cap. 

New York, - - - - 226 ^^ '' " 

London, - - - - 274 ^^ " " 

Of course these averages include children, but they 

also include great numbers of the well-to-do, who eat 

much more meat than their bodies need. 

We will add a few more examples of dietaries, 

some of which are used by the writer in making out 

the bills of fare given in this essay. 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 
gms. gms. gms. 

-lAK inn 4.^0 Proposed by Prof. Voit for 

^*^ ^^^ *^^ a man at hard work. 



120 56 500 



Allowed to German soldiers 
in garrison. 



^KC\ 1 f^n f^c\C\ Proposed by Prof. Atwater 

150 150 5UU for American at hard work. 

125 125 450 ^y ^^^ same for American 

at moderate work. 



100 60 400 

80 50 320 



Proposed by Prof. Voit for 

a woman. 
By the same for children 

from 7 to 15 years. 



&vamm 


©ramm 


145 


100 


120 


56 


150 


150 



Bttlitn^e Dtdtrcgcln. 12 

^ ©erbftoefftattbltc^ finb in biefen ®urd)[d;ttittett ^tnber 
einge[d)[o[fen, allein fie begreifen auc^ eine gro^e ^tn^af)! 
Don 2Bo()n;a6enbeu in fid;, weldie uiet me^r gletfd^ effen, 
als tf;re Seiber gebraudjen. 

SBir fiigen einige tueitere 33etfptere con ^tatregetn Bet, 
t)on raelc^en etnige von ber 35erfaffertn 6ei ^ufftellungber 
©peifefarten, 'Ok in biefer ^Ibl^anbhmg gegeBen finb, bes 
nut^t raerben. 

^o^leu^t)brate. 
©ramm. 

450 ^orgefd^Iagen bon $rof. SBoit 

fill- einenf)art ^rbeitenben. 

gQQ 3)eut)c^en ©aruifongfolbaten 

giigeftanben. 
500 S5orgefd)Iagen bon ^rof . 511= 
ttjatec fiir 5tmeri!anec hti fdimerer 3lrbeit. 
125 125 450 ^^^ bemfelben fiir Slmerifa^ 

ner bei ma^iger Slrbeit. 
100 60 400 ^o^gefc^Iagen t)on ^rof. SSoit 

fiir eirt ^^auenjimmer. 
80 50 320 '^'^^ bemfelben fiir ^'inber 

bon 7—15 Sa^ren. 
aBir rooaen nun etn ^eifpier bacon geben, tDte weit 
oft ber (Jonfumbetrag unter biefen ^iffern ftel^t. 

^ $rof. 23o^m fanb, ha^ dm axme norbbeutf^e gamilie, 
hie aug Mann, %xan unb einem fiinfjd^rigen mnhc be= 
ftanb, in einer 2Bod)e gur 9Za^rung Ijatte: 

^artoffein = c , = , 41 ^funb. 
SfJoggenmefjl = = = = = 2| $funb. 
S^^M'c^ = = = = . If^funb. 

^ei§ = = '. = .. i^fitnb. 
D^oggenbrob = = = . 12 ifunb. 

^ebft fe(;r roentg SJZird;. 

33ered;nen roir bie in biefen Ouantitaten entl^aitenen 
5Ral^rungggrunblagen, fo finben rair, ha^ biefe brei ^er= 
fonen tciglid) fonfumirten: 

$rotein!t)per, gette, J^oljienl^tibrate, 

175.5 ©ramm. 41 ©ramnt. 1251. ©ramm. 



12 Standard Dietaries. 

We will give an instance of how much below these 
figures the amount consumed sometimes falls. 

Prof. Boehm found that a poor North German 
family, consisting of a man, wife and a child five 
years old, had in one week for their food : 

Potatoes, ------ 41 lbs. 

Eye flour, 2|- lbs. 

Meat, If lbs. 

Rice, i lb. 

Rye Bread, 12 lbs. 

A very little milk. 

Calculating the food principles contained in these 
amounts, we find that the three individuals daily 
consumed of: 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 

175.5 gms. 41 gms. 1251. gms. 

It needs no comment to show how insuflBcient is 
this dietary in amount, and how incorrect in pro- 
portion. 

We have selected Prof. Atwater's dietary for a man 
at moderate manual labor as the basis of our twelve 
bills of fare and have taken Voit's standard for women 
and children. 

Our climate is more trying and our people work 
faster, and we shall do well to allow more fat and meat 
to our working-man than the foreign dietaries provide. 
If our man is to get daily one-third of his proteid 
in the form of animal food, this would be represented 
by 8 ozs. of butcher's meat (without bone), by from 
5 to 5.8 ozs. cheese, or by 8 eggs. 



21mcrifantfd?c 23ebur[niffc ^3 

(S§ bcbavf tcim§ (5ommentttr§, urn 311 ^etgen, mc unps 
retc^eub biefe ®iat m il^veu Ouantitdteit ift unb roie uns 
i*id;tig in iljvcn^^roportionen. 

2Bir fjaben ^rof. SIttoaterS ^idtregel fiir einen 3Q^ann 
nut mdgiger ^anbarbeit aH S3afig t)on graolf ©peifcfav^ 
ten auggeraa^lt unb ^oitS Ma^\tah fiir grauen unb 
^inber. 

Unfer ^lima ftellt grbgere 5tnforberungen, unb unfere 
33eooi!erung axh^ittt fc^neder, wiv t^un baiter rool^l bas 
van, wenn roix unferem 3lv6eit§mann me!^r %ett unb 
gkt[d^ ^uerifennen, al§ bie frembldnbifd^en 3)idtregeln 
Dorfe^en. 2Benn ber a}?ann bei un§ tdglid; ein S)ritte( 
fetner ^roteinforpev in ber gorm Don t^ierifc^er 
^lal^rung befommen foUte, raitrbe fie burd; 8 Un^en i^-teifd) 
nom gleifdjerlaben (oljm ^nodjen) unb 5 — 5.8 Unjen 
^dfe obcr 8 (Sier rcprdfentirt tx)erben. 

2Bir l^alten e§ fiir beffer, lieber etn)a§ l^i)r)er mit pros 
teinljaltiger 9^al;rung ^u gel;en, al§ ju niebrig. 3" ^^^ 
D^iegel finb 2cutc, roelc^e genug ^rotcinforper, befonber§ 
genug t^ierifd;e S^aljrung gcniegen, frdftig genug unb bes 
fi^en ha§, wa^ man „(Strammf;eit" nennt, unb bie 3jocs 
toren neigen gu ber ^nfidjt l^in, ha^ foldje Seute MxanU 
l^eiten beffer 3Siberftanb leiften fijnnen, wdl i(}r 33[ut 
unb i(;re ©eraebe weniger raafferljaltig finb, al§ bci Seus 
ten, rcetc^e i^re ^rotein!i)rpcr beinalje coHftanbig au§ 
3Segetabilien, wk J^artoffeln begiefjen. 35icle 5trbeitcr in 
Slmerifa aber rciirben iiberrafd;t fcin, raenn fie I;ortcn, wk 
gut fic^ @cfunbl;eit unb ©tdr!e mit ciner hci allebem 
nid^t fel)r grogen Ouantitdt gkifd; erfjalten (affen, oor? 
auSgefe^t, ha^ ber 9teft ber 3)idtr)orfdjrift genug proteins 
forper ober ^^dt entl^dlt. 

$ r a f t i f d) e 3t n ro e n b u n g. 

(g§ bleibt un§ nun noc^ iibrig, nadjjufeljen, ob fpars 
fame ^au§l)alter an§ ben norljergeljenben 3:(;atfadjcn iiber 
bie SSefc^affenljeit ber 9^al;runggmitten unb ben im ilijrper 
t)on i^nen gemad)ten ©ebraud) dlui^cn ^iel^en fonnen. 



13 American Needs. 

We believe that it is better to go a little high rather 
than too low with proteid food. As a rule, people 
who eat enough porteids, and especially enough animal 
food, are vigorous and have what we call " stamina," 
and doctors incline to the belief that such people 
resist disease better because their blood and tissue are 
less watery than in the case of people who draw their 
proteids almost entirely from such vegetables as pota- 
toes. But many workingmen in America would be 
surprised to learn how well health and strength can 
be maintained on what is, after all, not such a very 
large amount of meat, provided the rest of the dietary 
contain? enough yegetable proteid and fat. 

PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS. 

It now remains for us to see whether the economist 
can get practical help from the foregoing facts about 
the character of foods and the use that is made of 
them in the body. 

We have seen that we cannot economize in the 
amount of our food beyond certain limits and yet re- 
main healthy and strong ; also that we must not 
greatly alter the relative proportions in which expe- 
rience has shown that these foods are best combined. 
The true field of household economy has, then, 
certain prescribed limits. 

Its scope lies, 1st. In furnishing a certain food 
principle in its cheap rather than its dear form; 
for example, the proteid of beef instead of that of 
chicken, fat of meat instead of butter. 2nd. Hav- 
ing bought foods wisely, in cooking them in such a 
manner as to bring out their full nutritive value ; for 



gipcrf unb gtele bcs Sparfomcn U 

SBir l^abett ge[ef)en, bag tuir mit ber ©parfamfeit in 
oer D^a^runggquantitdt geraiffe ©c^ranfen nid)t uber^ 
fd^veiten fonnen, raemt wix gefunb unb fraftig Bleibeu 
tDoEen; ha^ rviv fevner bie re(atiucn ^roportionen, in 
rveld}en ber ©rfal^vung gemcig biefe 9^n()rung§mittcl am 
beften fombinirt racvben, nidjt fefjv bebeutenb dnbern biir^ 
fen. S)a§ gelb ber ©parfamieit I;at bal;er fetne beftimm; 
ten, t)orgefd)riebencn ©renjen. 

^^r S^ecf unD ^kl tft, 1) gett)i[[e D^al^rungggrunb; 
lagen licber in iljrer btltigen, alg i^rer tljeuren gorm ju 
liefern; 5. 33. $rote{n!i)rper con 9ttnbflei[c§ \tatt ron 
.gu^nern, gett Don gteifc^, ftatt von 33utter; 2) nad^ 
flugem 5tn!auf von 9^a^rung§mitte(n fie in etner SSeife 
3U fodjen, bag i^r coder 9^a^rn)ertl} ^ur ©eltung gebradjt 
rairb; y S. einen Sraten fafttg unb n)o(;lfd;mccfenb ftatt 
troden unb gefd^madloS ^u mac^en; 3) ju lernen, rate 
jebe§ bi§d)en 9la{)rung fid^ mit 55ortfjci( oermenben Idgt, 
mie ^. ^. Beim ©uppenfod;en; unb menu mir 4) noc^ bic 
£unft be§ SSiirjenS unb ber 5(bmed;Slung (jinjufiigen, fo 
ha^ rair biefe einfadjcn SUJatertatien mo^lfd;medenb 
madden fonnen, fo ijahen wix ha§ ganje gelb einer fparfa; 
men ,f)au§^dlterin erfd;opft, fomeit hk 9^aljrung§frage 
babet in 33etrac^t f ommt. 

2Sir fjoffcn, bag il^r hk folgenben ©eiten bienlid^ fein 
merben, benn einen 3;;^eit unferer 5(ufgabe in biefcr 5(b; 
^nblung mirb hie Unterfud^ung ber ncrfc^iebenen 9Za()r= 
ungSartifet betreffS il^reg D^d^rraert^c^ bilben, foraie dm 
@mpfel;tung ber (Jombinationen unb SQ^^tFjoben tm 
jtoc^en, roetc^e hen l^od^ftmogHc^en ©erainn an§ einer be; 
ftimmten Oelbfumme ^u ^ief^en geftatten. 3Sag dlaljx^ 
ungSmittel betrifft, fo ijahen wix in 5(merifa eine grog; 
%u§mal)l; ro^e (BtapdTjixohuftc f often in ber D^egel meni; 
ger aU in (Suropo, unb ber SlrbeitSmann l^ier tjat dvoa^ 
me^r @etb, urn fie fid; 3U faufen. 3)er beforgte (Srnd^s 
rer, ber niete 3}?dn(er Don einer, mie e§ fd)eint, unjus 
reid^enben ®umme fitttcrn mug, fann oerfi^ert fein, bag 
er bapon ^meifettoS lernen ifann, mie er beffer fertig ju 



14 Scope of the Economist. 

instance, making a roast juicy and delicious instead 
of dry and tasteless. 3d. In learning how to use 
every scrap of food to advantage, as in soup making, 
and 4th, if we add to these the art of so flavoring and 
varying as to make simple materials relish, we have 
covered the whole field of the household economist, 
so far as the food question is concerned. 

We hope she will find help in the following pages, 
for it will be part of our task in this essay to examine 
different articles of food as to their nutritive value, and 
to recommend such combinations and such methods of 
cooking as will make the utmost out of a certain sum 
of money. As to foods, we have in America a large 
range of choice; staple raw products cost less generally 
than they do in Europe and the laboring man here 
has somewhat more money to buy with. The anxious 
provider, who must feed many mouths on what seems 
an insufficient sum, may feel assured that he can, 
without doubt, learn to do better than he now does. 
In this line we must not disdain to learn lessons 
wherever we can. 

There is an unfortunate prejudice among us against 
learning of foreign countries. The American work- 
man says indignantly that he does not want to learn 
how to live on "starvation wages." But the facts, 
viewed coolly, are just these: the inhabitants of older 
countries have learned some lessons that we too 
must soon learn whether we will or no, and to profit 
by these lessons before we are really obliged to, will 
in no way lower wages, it will simply help us to get 
more comfort and pleasure out of our money. 

Students of economy, political and domestic, find 



i^cf^ren ausvoaviiQtv ^dnbcr. 1 5 

tDerben cermag, alg hi^ljcw ^n biefer 23cgic]^urtg ntiiffen 
wix nidft oerfaumen 311 lernen, rao rcir tvgenb !onnen. 

@egcn ha^ Serneu uon fremben :^anbern l^errfdjt unter 
un§ ein ungTucffeltge^ ^Sorurt^^eiL S)er amerifanifci^e 
5lr6eiter erflcirt mit (Jntriiftung, bag ev widest lernen 
raotle, n)te man mit „§ungerlo^nen" leben fonne. 5tl= 
letn bie XI}at[ad^en, iufjl tn§ 5Iuge gefagt, finb einfad^ 
He^e: ^ie 33eit)ol^ner alterer l^anber I^aben etroaS gekrnt, 
wa§ auc^ roir in ^ur^em gu lernen l^aben, 06 wir raoden 
ober nid)t, unb Don btefen :2e^ren profitiren, elje rair xvixh 
lid) bajn gejraungcn finb, 'i)d^t in teiner 3Bei[e bie SMjne 
l^erabbriicfen; e§ roirb un§ einfad^ l^elfen, tne(;v 33eqnem5 
lic^feiten unb ^ergniigen ron nnferem @elbe gu ^iel^en. 

2Ber ^lationat^ ober ^an^f^alibtonomic ftnbiren will, 
ftnbet feine beffere Seljrnteifterin al§ hit @rf al;rung diterer 
Hnber, unb fann beftdnbig an§ if;rer grogeren Setrieb^ 
famfeit unb fifonomie in ber SebenSraeife Sel;ren ^ief^en. 
gran .gelen (Sampbed l^at gefunben, i)a^ unter ben arnten 
S^dfierinnen in 9Zen) 2}orf feine ge[d)icfter im j^odjen iljxcv 
fdrglid;en ©peifen rvax, aU bie 3)eut[(^e ober bie (Bd)xx>cu 
^erin. Wc aufmerffamen D^^eifenben ftimmen in biefem 
^eugnig iiberein: — „2Benn ber amerifonifc^e 5(rbeit§mann 
fo vid mit feinem grogen ^^ol^ne 3U madden miigte, me ber 
au§(dnbi|' c|e mit feinem !leinen,f f iinnte er imSnruS leben." 

3lber, mirb man fragen, melc^eS finb bie fpejietlen 
Sel^ren, hie voix Don ber auSldnbifc^en ,gau§fran ab^us 
nel^men l^aben? Unfere 5lntn)ort lautet: l^auptfddjlic!^ 
©elbftoerteugnung unb ©paren. 33er3n)eifle nid;t, meit 
bu dn fleineg ©infommen l^nft un'o won ber J^anb in ben 
3D^unb Uhcn mugt. gteif^igeS ©tubium ber grage unb 
entfi^loffene (gntl^altung Dom 2uxn§ mirb ha^ problem 
liifen, menu e§ geloft merben fann. 

3Kir unb unfere ^inber fd^roelgen ^u viel tn ®em, raaS 
gut fc^medt, mdl^renb rair oiedeic^t bie gan^e ^eit iiber 
raiffen, bog mir nidjt @elb genug ^ur Snfi^affung be§ 
S^ot^menbigen Ijaben. ®er 3ucferfon[um g. 53. betrug 
1887 in 5(merifa 56 ^funb per Jl^opf, in !l)eutfd)tanb faum 



l5 Lessons from Poreign Countries, 

no better school than the experience of older 
countries, and constantly draw lessons from their 
greater thrift and economy in living. Mrs. Helen 
Campbell found, among the poor sewing women of 
New York, that none were skillful in cooking their 
scanty food excepting only the German and Swiss 
women. All observing travelers unanimously give 
this testimony, — '^If our American workman knew 
how to make as much of his large wage as the for- 
eigner does of his small one, he could live in luxury." 

But you ask, what are the special lessons to be 
learned of the foreign housewife? We answer, chiefly 
self-denial and saving. Do not give up in despair 
because you have a small income and resign yourself 
to living meanly, in a hand to mouth fashion. Dili- 
gent study of the question and resolute abstention from 
luxuries will solve the problem, if it can be solved. 

We indulge ourselves and our children too much 
in what tastes good, while all the time we know we have 
not money enough to buy necessaries. For instance, 
the consumption of sugar in America was in 1887, 56 
lbs. per head, in Germany hardly more than one third 
that amount. This means a larger consumption of 
sweetmeats than we can afford and at the same time 
be well fed otherwise. 

We seem, in general, to spend too much money in 
our country on food compared with what we use in 
other directions; one great trouble is that we do not 
know how to save every scrap of food and use it 
again in some form. For one thing, we have yet to 
learn the great art of soup making, — and it seems 
also, of soup eating. 



5uppcn. ^G 

md)v al§ cin SDrittel von bieferOuantitat. 3^{e§ hehcnttt 
cinm grofeeren G^onfum von ©ii^igfetten, aU unfere 90^it= 
te( erlauben, xvcnn wix ung anberraeittg gut na^ren rcotTeu. 

^m 2(llgemetnen fdjeinen trir ^u »te( @clb in unferem 
2anhe file bie DZaljrung tm 35erfjaltni§ gu S)em, iDa§ mix 
[onft 6vaud)en, au^^ugcbcn; eine groge ©d^roierigfeit ift, 
bag rcir ni^t toiffen, tt)ie jebeg Bi^djen DZafjrung gefpart 
unb in irgenb einer @eftalti:}ieber gebraudjt werben fann. 
3)enn ©ineS Tjaben wiv nod) ^u lernen, ndmlic^ hie groge 
£unft be§ ©uppenfoc^eng — unb mc e§ fc^eint, and) beg 
@uppcne[fcn§. 

SDie amerifanifd^e ^auSfrau loirb mtr [ogen: ,,!4)a§ ift 
tnir nidjtg Dteue§ meljr, feit ^a^ren fc^on tuirb un§ con 
(Suppen Dorgerebet. SSir mijgen feine ©uppen!" ^c^ 
mod)te fieinbeffen J^Iogfragen: „^a\'t ®u fie aud; lange 
genug uerfudjt, urn @e[(^i(flic^feit im 33eretten berfelBen 
er(angt unb ®eine gamilie an iljxcn ©efd^mad geroo^nt 
311 l^abcn?" (Sine Z^at\ad)e fd)on foEte t(;nen etne tiic^^ 
tige $roBe fid;ern, bag ndmnc^ raenigftenS brei 9Zationen, 
hie gran^ofen, bie ^eut\d)en unb bie ^taliener, fie tdglic^ 
geniegen unb fd)on gan^e ©enerationen lang genoffen 
^aben. ©inen Zl)cil unferer Sf^aljrung in biefer g^orm in 
un§ aufjune^men, ift eine aBfolute D^ot^tuenbigfeit, raenn 
wix ha§ 33eftmoglid)e au§ Beftimmten @e(b6etrdgen Ijers 
au§fc§lagen raoEen/ 

^ r a f t i f d§ e © d; n) t e r i g ! e i t e n. 

^ie praftifdjen ©djraierigf'eitcn Bei bcr S^erbeffcrung 
ber ^augmanngfoft finO nid;t goring. 2ll§ J^iidjin IjoBen 
wix hie ®attin unb DJlutter, raeldje ^u raenig ^cit ^u 
biefem fef)r n)id;tigen S^ei^ hex ^au^arBeit l;at; fie 
l^at vieUcid)t feine geniigcnbe 2UtgBilbung in ber Mod)i 
funft (benn eine jlunft ift e§), unb augerbem finb iljre 
^iic^e unb i§re ^iid;engerdt^e gar nidjt ha§, wa§ fie [cin 
fodten, Xl)ai\ad)lid) f onnen aud; hie ©igenfd^aften jur (5rs 
fiiUung einer SlufgaBe com 3beal nidjt raeiter entfernt [cin. 

3n @uropa l^aBen gamilien von gcringen 9[Rittetn uiele 



le 

The American housekeeper would say to me : " This 
is nothing new, for years we've been hearing about 
soups. We don't like soups ! " I only ask, * ^ have you 
tried them for a considerable length of time, so that 
you have become skilled in making them, and your 
family used to their taste?" One fact alone ought 
to insure for them a good trial; that at least three 
nations, the French, German and Italian, make daily 
use of them and have for generations. To take part 
of our food in this form is an absolute necessity if we 
are to do the best possible with a certain amount of 
money. 

PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 

The practical difficulties in the way of improve- 
ment in household cookery are not small. As cook, 
we have the wife and mother, who has too little time 
for this very important branch of household work; 
she has had, perhaps, no good training in the art 
of cookery (for it is an art), and besides, her 
kitchen and kitchen utensils are not at all what 
they should be. Indeed, the qualifications for a given 
task could not well be further from tlie ideal. 

In Europe families of small means have many 
helps unknown to us. In the first place, bread is 
never baked at home, the bakers' bread being both 
excellent and cheap. It would seem that among us, 
bakers' bread must shortly improve in quality and 
decrease in price ; either the profits must be too 
large, or the business not well managed. For 
instance, in those parts of Germany where white 
bread is eaten as a staple, it costs a trifle over 3 



5)ic auslanbifd^c ^ausfraii. . 17 

.gitfgnttttet, hie un§ unl6e!annt finb. 3ii"fl<^ft tt)irb ba§ 
Srob nie 511 .giaufe gebacfen, ba bag ©dcferbrob ebenfo 
au^^dd)n^t, roie bidig ift. SO^an fodte bentcn, ba^ aud) 
bet un§ bag ©dcferbrob in ^urjem fic^ in ber Oualitdt 
befferu unb tm ^reife fallen miiffe; entraeber miiffcn bie 
profile ^u grog ober hk ©efd^dfte md)t gut cerrcaltet fein. 
^n ben ^Ijeilen Don ^eutfd^lanb n'dmlid), in roelc^en 
3Bei§brob al§ fteljenbeg 9^a^runggmttte( genoffen n)tvb, 
!oftet e§ eine ^(etntgfeit fiber 3 dentg per ^[unb, roal^? 
renb 9}le'^( con ^^urc^fc^ntttgquantdt ungefd^r benfelben 
^reig \)at. Qm ©egenfa^e ba^^iu cergleidie mon bte ^retfe 
t)on 33rob unb Wd)l in unferem eigenen :?anbe, wo in f e{= 
ner gvogen ©tabt ber ©robpreiS unter 7 ^entg ftef}t, rod^; 
renb ha^ Wd)i 3 (Jcntg foftet. 3)a§ r^eigt: 33rob foftet 
in ®eutfd;fanb ungefdTjr ebenfo vid, rvie "iffldjl, unb in 
3lmertf a mel^r al§ boppelt fo wtel, unb hahd ift ber beutfd^e 
iBdcfer anerfanntermagen etn woTjUjabenber a}Zann! 

S)ie ttuSldnbifdje .gauSfran l^at aber t)om ^dcfer nod^ 
ttJeitere .l^^'^f^- SBenn fie einen iluc^en ober „^ie" bacft, 
fc^icft fie benfelben ^um SSacfen fort unb hr^aljlt 1 — 2 
gentg bafiir (ha§ geuerungSmatertat rciirbe fie mel^r 
foften); f^-leifd^feulen unb cermifc^te @erid;te roerben gu 
bemfetben ^reife ^um Sacfen fortgefc^icft; unb vox jebem 
33dcferlaben in ©eutfd^Ianb fann man am ©onntag WiU 
tag eine ©cf)aar S)ienftmdbc^en ftel;en fe^en, Don weld^en 
jebe§ nad) ber 9f^eil;e einbampfenbeS ©efdg frifc^ aug bem 
^acfofen in ©mpfang nimmt. S)ie ©uppenfiic^en (3)olfg5 
Hidden) rerfdjiebener ^Ibftufnngen finb ebenfa((§ einegroge 
§i(fe. ©c!^reiberinbiefegl^atn)ieberfjoItau§einerberfeIben 
ercettente gleif ^brii(;e (1 $t. f iir 2 (Jentg) geljolt, unb gut 
gefod)te§ @emii|e rairb ^u einem ^reife geliefert, ber 
raeniger betrdgt, aU hie Soften be§ ^o^en§ ^u .gaufe, 
tt)enn man ^dt unb generung in 33ered§nung ^icfjt. 
^ ©old;e ^i(f§mittel finb jeboc^ nod^ nidjt fef)r nielfad^ 
fiir bie amerifani[d)e gran erreic^bar; fie mu§ fid) mit 
i^rer 3(ufgabe 3U ^aufe abplagen unb chen mit il;r fertig 
werben fo gut fie fann. 



1« The Foreign Housekeeper, 

cents a pound, while flour of average quality costs 
about the same. In contrast with this, compare the 
prices of bread and flour in our own country where 
in no large city is bread quoted at less than 7 cents, 
while flour costs 3 cents. That is, bread costs in Ger- 
many about the same as flour and in America more 
than twice as much; and yet the German baker is no- 
tably a prosperous person ! 

The foreign housekeeper has still further help from 
the baker. If she makes a cake or pie, she sends it- 
out to be baked, and pays from one to two cents 
(the fuel would have cost more); joints of meat and 
mixed dishes are also sent to be baked for the same 
price; and before any bakeshop in a German city, at 
noon on Sunday, can be seen a line of servant girls, 
each in turn receiving a steaming dish as it is laken 
from the oven. The soup kitchens {Volks Kilclien) 
of various grades are also a great help. The writer 
has repeatedly had brought from one of them an excel- 
lent meat broth ( 1 pt. for 2 cents ), and good cooked 
vegetables are furnished for a price less than they 
could be cooked for at home, if one took any account 
of time and fire. 

But such he]j)s are not yet to any great extent 
available to the American woman; she must wrestle 
with her own problem at home and solve it as best 
she can. 



gl i^ ^u4|^. 



®ie ^iid^e etner grau ooit ®urd)fd;n{tt§m{tteln tft n{d;t 
hie tbeale jtilc^e. @ie tft »ie(Ieid)t 511 fUin obcr l^at ju 
raentg Sic^t, ober weift fie nod) ernftlidjere Wan([d auf, 
rate fc^ledjtcn 2Saf[eraBf(u§. 3Sir miiffett fte inbeffen ebeu 
ncljtitett, tt)ie fie tft, unb bloS bie gorberung ftettett, bafe 
fie adeS S^otl^ttjenbige fiir belt ^xved etttl^alt, ben rair im 
kuge l;al6en — einfadje Jliid^e fiir eine gamilie uon ©edj; 
fen. 

.^n hen Bittigeren (StabttDoBnungen ift 

^ ' bie i?:ud;e fletn, gu Hem fur gute 35entt= 

lation unb fiir V\t fd^raeren Slrbeiten, tt)ie 'Ha^ 2Sofd)en; 
^utn ^oc^en !ann jebod) and; eine fel^r fleine ^iidje fo 
eingertd^tet raerben, baj^ fie alien ^VQedtn ent[prid)t. 

SSer eine ©d)iff§!iid;e gefel;en l^at^ fann ble§ tJerfteljen. 
^er ^od;, wenn er Dor feinem .gerbe ftet)t, faun atte feine 
^orratlje erreid^en, benn D^ci^en Don ©d^uBIoben unb 
gcidjcrn kfel^en 6nd§ftdbltc^ bieSScinbe nom gupoben big 
jur Sr)ede; !(eine3:i[d)djen jutn ^eigaitmac^en ifonncn au§ 
Der SSanb au§ge5;ogen unbtt)ieber I}ineingefd)ol6en tcerben, 
n)cnn man fie nid)t ntel^r brruc^t, unb jeber "^oVi S3oben 
unb SBanb tft mit beftmoglidjem 35ort!§ciI? nerraenbet. 
®er Stod) roirb einem fagen, ha^ er feine grogcre ^iidje 
mi)c^te; er roiirbe mit bent Umfjerlaufen Ho§ ^di cerHe; 
ren. 

^. 9}^an Beginne bamit, fidj ben SKanbraum 

^u 9^u^en ^u mad;en. .gaft ®u noc^ uidjt 
fo ntele gadder, al§ an ben 3Sanben ^la^ finben, fo 
bringe nod^ me!^r an, unb 6efonbcr§ utn unb iiber bcm 
Ofen^ fo \>a^ ®u, rad^renb 3)n am ^od;en bift, ^feffcr, 
©a(3, unb atte anberen ©eraiirje, bie 3)u jnr ©uppe, 



THE KITCHEN. 



The kitchen of a woman of average means is not 
the ideal kitchen. It is perhaps too small or not 
light enough, or it may have still more serious defects, 
as a bad drain. We must take it as it is, however, 
requiring only that it contain what is necessary to 
the end we have in view, — plain cooking for a fam- 
ily of six. 

In the cheaper city dwellings the 

Size of Kitchen. , ., , . n ^ -n ,. -, 

Kitchen IS small, too small lor good 
ventilation, and for the heavier kinds of work as 
washing; but for cooking, a very small kitchen can 
be so arranged as to answer every purpose. 

Any one who has seen a ship's kitchen can under- 
stand this. The cook as he stands before his range 
is within reach of all his stores, for rows of drawers 
and shelves literally line the walls from floor to ceil- 
ing, little tables for pastry or cake making are 
drawn out of the wall and pushed in again when not 
wanted, and every inch of floor and wall space is used 
to the best advantage. This cook would tell you that 
he did not want a larger kitchen ; he would only lose 
time running about in it. 

Begin to utilize the wall space. If 

Arrangement. ° , , t , 

you have not yet as many shelves as 

the walls will accommodate, put up more, and espe- 

18 



(Etnrtd^tung bcr Kiid^c. jq 

obcv sum ®cf;morcn hraudjft, cvxeidjax faiinft; ^od)V6M 
uiib ©aBcIn iinb 9j^c[[cr, Xoprbecfcl iinb .falter - adcg 
®ic[e§ [oirte ^4r aur ^anb [ein. ^affe con etnem ^im= 
mcrmamt in bte t)ergtpfte SSanb ^:)oh,lattcn etnfiiqcn, 
iDcrdje ^tiigel unb einige pd;er I^aUcn fonncn, unb wcnn 
bcr Ofcn tn einer dli\d)c mit einer 3Sanb an trvd ober 
[ogar brci ©eiten fteljt, fo tft bag urn fo beffer. STn btc:: 
fen dld^cln foaten fo aiemlid) aEe ©eratfje ^ngen bie 
bcim ilodjcn geBraud;t raerben, unb tn ben p^ernfoaten 
aUc ©crauqe unb 3utr;aten gu finben fein; tt)etter riicf^ 
wavt^ fann man ^a§ auBrtngen wa§ raenigcr Mufig ge= 
Brau^t iDirb. ^aft ®u !cine ©djuBInben, fo thut U§ 
iud)t§; Benui^e hid)t fdjltefjenbe ^ledjbofen fiir fo vich 
®inge, trie 3)u fannft; Ijaft ®u fcincn fd)licparen ©petfe. 
jdjvant fiir bcme @efd;irre, fo Ijiinge etnen ^SorBang ror 
hen offencn gcicfjern auf. 

^ 3endI;erbein2(Bgu§ Bei bent Ofcn tft, urn fo Beffer 
t|t eg beitn bag tft ber 3Seg, ben bctne gu§e am iifteften 
au gef;en ^aBen. D^aFje Beim Ofen mug ein ^TifcB von 
trge^Tb etner Slrt ftef;en; am Beften ift etn Betoeglirfier 
£i]d), eg fann jebod) au^ ein Breiteg ^^cgat mit einer 
ftarfen unb in \id)cxn ^rngeht eingefjcingten ©tiil^e baruns 
ter fein, hie eg nieberflappen la^^t, menu man eg nicBt 
Brauc^t. ^ 

3c^ f et^e coraug, ha% T)cine ^auptaxhcit an biefem Ofen 
unb btefem Xifd;e gcf^e(;cn mug unb ha^ ein gut oer^ 
feljener ©peifefdjranf, ber hie notljige 5rugftattung mm 
58eretten von ©acfroerf, ^uc^en unb mnftlidjen ©ericBten 
^tr eBenfomenig ^ur ^erfiigung fter;t, mte hie Mt ^um 
33eretten berfelBen. 

©erat^e. ^^^ ©erat^e, hie ^u Braudjft, flub nur 

o- r ^' crr.^^^'^^^' fltteinbicfemen{genmugt!5)ur)aBem 
^lelje ben SSert^ ber ©peifematerialien in ^etrad;t, bte 
S)u geBrauc^ft; einige in einer alien S3ratpfanne anges 
Brannte ©peifen reprofentiren faft hen ^aufpreig einer 
neuen. 2Bir merbcn Bfog uon ben mid^tigften unb aBfoIut 
not^raenbigften ©erat^en fpred;em 



19 Arrangement of Kitchen, 

cially about and above the stove, so that 'as you stand 
at your cooking you can reach salt, pepper and every 
other flavor that can be used in a soup or stew; cook- 
ing spoons and forks and knives, potlids and holders 
— all these should be at your hand. Let a carpenter 
fasten into the mortared wall strips of wood that will 
hold nails and a few shelves, and if the stove is in a 
niche with wall on two or even three sides of it, all 
the better. On these nails should hang nearly every 
implement used in cooking, and on the shelves should 
be found all spices and flavors; farther back can be 
placed what is more seldom used. If there are no 
drawers, never mind, use close tin boxes for as many 
things as you can; if no closed cupboard for your 
dishes, hang a curtain before the open shelves. 

The nearer your sink is to the stove the better, 
that is the path your feet must oftenest travel. 
There must be a table of some sort very near the 
stove; if it is a movable one, all the better, or it 
may be a broad shelf with a very strong and safe 
hinged support under it, letting down when not in 
use. 

I take for granted that the main part of your work 
is to be done on this stove and table, and that a well 
stocked pantry, fitted out for the making of pastry 
and cake and elaborate dishes, is not within your reach 
any more than the time for making such. 

The utensils you need are few, but 
these few you must have. Consider 
the value of the food materials that you use; a few 
burns on an old sauce pan will quite buy a new one. 
We will speak only of the most important and abso- 
lutely necessary utensils. 



Utertftlicn. 20 

(Sx\kn§, ge6raud)e fcin 3tnnbled); e§ ift Bidig, nber 
hie jlofjlen finb e3 nid)t, unb ®u trirft Diet jlo^len »ev; 
fd^roenben, raeiin SDu in 33(ec^ge[d)irreu foc^ft. ^od^ge; 
f4iiTe uon 3!}Ze[fing unb £upfer mitffeu Don S^enjenigen, 
bie fparen rootlen, uermieben rcerben, benn fie [inb 
foftfpielig unb evforbern gu vid ©orgfalt, toenn fie 
con giftigem ©riinfpan rein geljalten toerben folten. 

35on Bcfonbcrer S3ebeutung unter ^einen @erat!^en ift 
ein eiferner ^opf mit flac^em 33oben unh gutfi^tiefienbem 
e t f e r n e m ^edcL ^crfc^affe ®ir ben gtatteften unb 
Beften, felbft n^enn er boppclt fo vici foftet. ^n bicfem 
icirft ®n S)ein Sleijc^ mit raenig geuer Braten, ©emiife, 
auger 33or;nen unb ©rbfen, iiberljaupt atteS fodjcn torn 
nen, it)a§ nid)t faucr ift. .l^alte beren graei, tnenn 3)u 
fannft, oon t)er[d;iebenen @rogen. ^i^^^'^f^ tommt cine 
eiferne ©c^morpfanne, ebenfallg uon bem glatteften 
©djmiebeeifen unb ldd)t; and) fie mug einen bid)t[d)lieg2 
enben ®ed el I;aben. 3]iele Seute {)alten eiferne @erdt^e fiir 
fc^icerfcillig unb attmobifd); adein mo e§ fid) mn ©par; 
famfeit l;anbelt, ift teine anbereSSaare f o gut unb jufriebeu; 
ftellenb. SDie Blau ober gvau emaitlirte SSaare ift fct;r 
l^iiBfd;, l^cilt aBcr Jeine groge ,g)it^e an^ unb gerfptittert 
un'o ^erfradjt lcid;t; einen Jle[|'e( won biefer 2Baare aber 
foUtcft ®u l;a6en, mciC er ^um ^od;en Don ^riidjten unb 
alien fauren !j)ingen feljr raertljDoll ift. ®u braud^ft ei= 
nen SDraljtroft gum SWften Don ^rob unb gleifd); ®u 
mugt il;n gu Dcrfdjiebenen ®ingen gcBrauc^en, bie ®u 
M§ je^t in ber @d)morpfanne gcfod;t l;aft. SDer ^Ijee^ 
feffel unb hie 33acfp[anne finb felbftuerftcinblid;. (S^ 
gibt noc^ ein anbercS ©ercitlje, ha§ nid;tfo gen)ol;nlic^ ift, 
eg aber 3U fcin Derbiente, ndmlid) ein ®ampftodjtopf; 
ein einfadjer ^opf mit burd)li)d;ertem 33oben, ber genau 
in ben obernen iljeil beg eifernen ^opfeS l;inetnpa§t unb 
einen bidjt[d;liegenben j^ef[el l;at. (Bdn ©ebraud; mirb 
fpdter befprodjcn merben. 

Oljue eine ^Xn^al^l irbener §d[en, Vic mit bleifreier 
(Smaille glafirt finb, !annft ®u bcfonberg bcim ^od)en 



20 Utensils. 

First, do not use tin ; it is cheap, but coal is not, 
and you will waste a great deal of coal in trying to 
cook in tin. Brass and copper cooking vessels are to 
be avoided by one who must economize, as they are 
expensive and require too much care to keep them 
free from the poisonous verdigris. 

Of chief importance among your utensils is a flat 
bottomed iron pot with close fitting iron lid. Get 
the smoothest and best, even if it cost double. In 
this you will roast meat with little fire, cook vege- 
tables, all but peas and beans, cook anything indeed 
that is not acid. Have two of these, if you can, of 
different sizes. Next, an iron frying pan, also of 
the smoothest wrought iron and light; this too 
should have a close fitting cover. Some people con- 
sider iron utensils heavy and old fashioned, but where 
economy is an object, no other ware is so good and 
satisfactory. The blue or grey enamelled ware is very 
nice but will not stand great heat and easily chips 
and cracks, but you should have one kettle of this 
ware as it is valuable for cooking fruit and anything 
acid. You must have a wire gridiron for toasting 
bread and broiling meat ; this you should use for 
many things which you now cook in the frying pan. 
The tea-kettle is a matter of course, and a griddle. 
There is one other utensil not as common, but which 
deserves to be, viz., a steamer; a simple pot with 
perforated bottom which will fit tightly into the top 
of the iron pot, and have a very tightly fitting cover. 
Its use will be discussed later. 

You can hardly do without a number of earthen 
jugs, glazed with lead-free enamel, especially for 



£)ct3matcnal. 2 \ 

uiib %u^hewa})xcn bev Wildi) nidjt auSfommett. 3Sev; 
[c^affe ®ir auc^ eine ^Injaf)!: Ijotjerner Soffel; fie [inb 
billitj unb fauber unb Don eiuer gum Umruljren geeignetcn 
gorm. ®cr altoaterifdje ^ubbtngftocf ber 2)anfee;j?ud;e 
ift bte primitbfte gorm be^felben 5ei ung, unb utete :^eute 
fennen feine anbere. 

- , (Sin gutcr Ofen tft in einer ^lic^e con 

erfter ^ebeutung, atlein gliicflic^er SSeife 
finb gute 6fen ciwa§ @en)ol;nlid)e^ geroorben. @ine ge= 
roid^tigere grage jebod^ ift ber $rei§ be§ in ifjnen gu vexc 
6rennenben geuevung§materia[§. ©elBftoerftdnblic^ 
miiffen MoljUn ba fein, unb raenn ber Ofen gel^eijt ift, 
tt)ie an ^ii.gel; unb ^adtagen, fann man barauf fefjen, 
ba^ bag geuer biS gu feiner du^erften Seiftunggfdl^igfeit 
auggenu^t mirb; im SSinter fiinnen @erid)te auf mef)rere 
Xage Dorauggefcid)t merben. 

^mn £od)en eine§ einjigen @eric^te§ ober 

^^ ^^ ' gum ©iebenmad^en eineg X(;eefeffelg ift ein 

^oFjIenol^lDfen eine groj^e ©rfparnig; er tft and) unfdid^^ 

bar urn einen Xop\ in ©c^mor^i^e gu er^lten — ■ ctxt^a^, 

wa^ auf bem £)fen fef;r fd)n)er gu erreic^en ift. 

3u bemfelben ^n^ede unb gu allem fteti; 
^ ^ ^ * gen ^'od^en, vox Sldem aber ^um gteifd); 
roften, foUtc jebe ^auSfrau 3Sorrid)tungen gum SSrennen 
Don .l^olgfol^len l^aBen; e§ Bebarf bagu bloS eine§ 9tofte§ 
mit einem 2 — 3 ^oH 'i)of}m 9^anbe, hen man in ha§ Ofen? 
lod^ TjinaBIaffen fann ((Sine 5Irt Don tiefer ^[anne mit 
roftartigem ©oben). giir fotc^e ^wcde ^dlt dn ^u\l)cl 
l)axtex ^ob^foljUn, hie 15 — 20 (^ent§ Joftct, lange Dor. 
^olgfoljlen finb in $arig faft ha^ eingige geuerungSma^ 
terial beim ^oc^en; fie finb in hex %l)at and) in gang 
granfreid^ unb SSeftbeutfd^Ianb in allgemeinem ©ebraud^. 

^ ^ „ ^ ^etreffS bc§ ,,^odin)drmapparat§" 

^Dc^ttjarmapparat. '' ^ . re ^ 

aU Tliitd gur geuerunggs^rfparnig 

f. ©. 44. 



21 Fuel 

cooking and holding milk. Get also a number of 
wooden spoons; they are cheap and clean, and of con- 
Yenient shape for stirring. The old fashioned pud- 
ding stick of the Yankee kitchen is the earliest form 
among us, and many people know no other. 

A good stove is of first importance in a 
kitchen, but fortunately good stoves have 
become common. A graver question, however, is the 
cost of fuel to be burned in them. Of course coal 
must be the stand-by, and when the stove is heated 
up as on ironing and baking days, care can be taken 
to use the fire to its fullest capacity; in winter, 
dishes can be cooked ahead for several days. 

To cook a single dish or for boiling a tea- 
kettle a coal oil stove is a saving; it is also 
invaluable for keeping a pot at a simmering heat, — a 
thing very difficult to accomplish on a stove. 

For the same purpose, and for any steady 
cooking, and above all for broiling meat, every 
housekeeper ought to have appliances for burning 
charcoal; it only needs a grating with a rim 2 or 3 
inches high, to let down into the stove hole (a sort of 
deep spider with a grated bottom). For such pur- 
poses, a bushel of hard wood charcoal costing 15 or 
20 cents would last a long time. Charcoal is almost 
the only fuel used in Paris for cooking; indeed, 
throughout France and in Western Germany it is in 
very common use. 

For ^^Cookinff Safe" as a saver of 

'Cooking Safe." „ , .f 

luel, see page 44. 



11 n b i ^ V e 23 e V e 1 1 u n g. 



SSir l^aBen htxtii^ in hex (Sinteitung auf bte 23ebeutung 
biefer 9^a{)rung^grunb[age aufmerffam gemad^t. SSir 
raerben voo^ haxan tl^un, roenn totr un§ baran erinnern, 
bag e§ brei groge ©(affen t)on protetnl^aUigen ^orpern 
gibt, etgentlidieg ©iroeig, ©afein unb gi6rin, unb bag in 
$5flan^^en, wit ^tiieren ^eprafentanten biefer brei G^Iaffen 
gefunbeti luerben. 3n ^Pflanjenfdften unb in hm giern 
ijahen wiv fo 3)inge, bie ^u ber (Siroeigclaffe ge^oren; in 
bent Ouarf faurer SJ^ild) unb in bent Segumin Don ©d}03 
tenfriid)ten l^aben xvix $ro6ert Don Safein, unb in bent 
£leber ber ©etreibefriid^te unb in hm ^lumpen, bie fid^ 
in cerriii^rtem 23lute hilhcn, l^aben xoix ^ro6en dou 
gibrin. 

^l^ierifc^e ©peifen. 

Unfere tl^ierifc^en ©peifen entl^alten nod^ anberc ^inge, 
n)eld)e b'e §au§frau hen ^roteinforpern an hie (Beite 
ftedt, unb itber eine§ ber[e(6en l^aben xvix einige 2Borte 
^u fagen, namlic^ ©elatin, bie fticfftoffl^altige ©ubftang, 
raelc^e au§ ^nod)en unb il:nDrpein l^erauggefod^t loirb. 

®elatin: ®ef(f)id)te. 3" ^^^ ©ef^id^te ber D^a^rung^mit. 
tel l)at biefeg @e(atin, n)ie ber gleifd;; 
ertraft, eine groge Sf^oUe gefpielt. @I;e man hie wirflidjen 
gunctionen ber ^Ral^rungSgrunblagcn oerftanb, glaubte 
man, aug einem ©tiicfe §lei[d) mit Staffer SlUeg ^erau^- 
^ienen gu fbnnen, n)a§ Don SSert^ fiir ben ^orper barin 
entfjalten fei; unb fo tarn e§, bag nad; mef^r alg i^unbert 

22 



PEOTEID-CONTAIl^IlsrG FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We have already in the Introduction called atten- 
tion to the importance of this food principle. It is 
well for us to bear in mind that there are three great 
classes of Proteids, Albumens proper. Caseins, and 
and Fibrins, and that in both plants and animals are 
found representatives of these three classes. Thus, 
in plant juices and in eggs we have things belonging 
to the Albumen class; in the curd of sour milk and 
in the legumine of the pod-covered plants we have 
examples of caseins; and in the gluten of grains and 
in the clot whipped out of blood we have examples 
of fibrins. 

ANIMAL FOODS. 

Our animal foods contain some other things that 
the housewife ranks with proteids and we have a few 
words to say about one of them, viz., gelatine, that 
nitrogenous substance boiled out of bones and car- 
tilage. 

In the history of foods this gelatine. 

Gelatine, Hist, of ,., > > > ^ t j j. 

like meat extract, has played a great 
part. Before the real functions of the food princi- 
ples were understood it was thought that what could 
be extracted by water from a piece of meat comprised 
all in it that was of value to the body; and so it hap- 

22 



(Sclattn. 26 

^al)xcn, nadjbem ^apin bie 30^ett)obe ^uirt %n^i^i)^n bc§ 
@elatin§ au§ ilnodjen entberf't ^tte, (er tljat bte§ oer? 
mtttelft ber 35Drrid;tung, bie rto^ jel^t in ben Jtiic^en alg 
„$apin'§ ©uppen^erfo^er" hdannt ift) bag @elatin 
al§ einer ber beftcn, wenn \iid)t gevabejn aU ber beftndf;? 
renbe 23eftanbtf;eil beg g-lei[d;eg betrad;tet tonrbe. ^n bcm 
let^ten Sal^rjel^nt be§ 18. Qa^rl^unbertg unb gu Slnfang 
be§ gegenradrtigen madjten hie granjofen Don bem ©elas 
tin ftar!@ebraud;, in ber3!}^einnng, ia^ eSein^roteinfiir^ 
per f ei, wdl e§ bem &)cmiUx ©tidftoff lief erte. (Jg wurben 
DerBefferte 3DZetI;oben ^ur (SrtraftBereitung erfunben, unb 
feirt @c6rauc^ wurbe, 16efonber§ in hm bffentUdjen ^\u 
^talUn von $arig, cin fo aKgemeiner, ha^ von 1829 — 38 
jmet nnbbreiuiertel 3}li({ionen ^ortionenjlnod^engelatin^ 
©uppe an bie 3n[a[fen eineg ein^igen .giofpitalg werabreid^t 
wurben. Xvo^ hen ©utad^ten eminenter @ele!^rter, ha^ 
bie ©elatinfuppen nnb ©elatintafeln ein Dodfommener 
@rfa^ fiir ^roteinforper feien, nal;m fein ^onfum jeboc^ 
ah; hie. ^lerjte bemcic^tigten fid) wieber be§ ©egenftanbeg, 
unb gegen hie Wiite beg Qal^rljunbertg 'i)aiten fid) bie Sins 
fid^ten fo gednbert, ha^ i^nt faft atler, wenn uii^t uBers 
l§aupt ader ^idljrraert^ abgefprodjen n)urbe» SJZoberne 
ferperimente, hie auf einer rationelleren 33afig Beruljen, 
^ben bem ©elatin feinen rid)tigen^la^ angemiefen. @g 
ift ein ^JZaf;rung§mittel, gerabe fo gut me gett, allein joie 
gett fann eg nic^t hie dtotie t)on protein fpielen, oBfdjon 
ein beftimmter ^etrag baoon, tnit getten unb ^ol)Unl)X)^ 
braten^ufammen genoffen, ben ^orper in ©tanbfel^t, mit 
etraog ujeniger protein augjufommen. SSon ^rof. 33oit 
roirb fogar bel;ouptet, ha^ eg bem gett in hex gdljigfeit, 
hie l^albe £)6liegenl;eit con ^roteinftoffen ^u iiBernel^nien, 
oorangel)e. 

SBir l^aben fiir gut gefunben, Ijiexvon ju fpred;en, raeil 
fo ^n fagen eine 3lrt Don abergldubifd^er ^od^ad)tung in 
ber £iid^e fiir bng „©dl;mige" l^errf d;t, ein Ueberbleibfel 
Don $apin'g ^cit, v)ie man benfen follte. ^'ine gute 
beutfd^e .^augfrau pftegte mit ber 3}erfafferin hie l;augljdl= 



23 Gelatine. 

pened that for more than a hundred years after Papin 
had discovered the method of extracting all the gel- 
atine out of bones (which he did by the aid of that 
contrivance still known in kitchens as the "Papin 
Soup Digester ") gelatine was considered to be one of 
the most, if not the most nourishing constituent of 
meats. In the last decade of the 18th century, and 
in the early part of this the French made great use 
of gelatine under the impression that it was a proteid 
because it yielded nitrogen to the chemist. Improved 
methods of extracting it were invented, and so gen- 
eral did its use become, especially in the public insti- 
tutions of Paris, that from 1829-38, two and three 
quarters million portions of bone-gelatine soup were 
dealt out to the inmates of a single hospital. But in 
spite of the opinions of eminent scientists that gela- 
tine soups and gelatine tablets were a perfect substi- 
tute for proteids, their consumption decreased; physi- 
cians again took hold of the subject, and by the 
middle of the century opinion had so changed that 
nearly all, if not all, food value was denied to them. 
Modern experimentation based on more rational meth- 
ods has put gelatine in its right place. It is a food, just 
as much so as is fat, but like fat it cannot play the 
role of proteid although a certain amount taken with 
fats and carbohydrates will enable the body to get 
along with a little less proteid. It is even said by 
Prof. Voit to excel fat in its ability to do half duty 
for proteid material. 

We have thought it well to speak of this Ifecause 
of a sort of superstitious regard in the kitchen for 
" stock," a survival, one would think, of Papin's time. 



(Hjtradtofioffe. 24 

tcrtfd^en ^Sor^iige einer getciffen „grau liDoctor" ^u 6e= 
fpred^en, bte „ftetg {t;re ^nod^en breimal au^tod)tt", [0 
ba§ bte ^afenlod;er ber 33ett)oI;ner manc^e§ .gau§J;alt§ 
jud^renb ber fed^Sten ©tunbe ber^nod^enauSfiebung burd^ 
:2eimgerud§ Bekibtgt n)urben» 

SBenn jebod^ bte 33ebeututtg be§ ®elattn§ uBerfd^a^t 
rourbe unb nod) itberfd^dl^t n)irb, fo gilt bteg nod§ me^r 
Don anberen Z^dUn be§ gkif(i)e§, raelc^e burd^ gaffer 
auggejogen tcerben fonnen. 

gittjeiB unb 2Sir ^16ett gefeljen, ha^ l^eifeeS Staffer 
(£jtraftit)ftoffe. ba§ protein gum ©erinttett brtngt, unb 
tt)enn e§ einmal geronnen ift, loft eg fidf) nidjt mcl^r im 
2Baf[er auf, unb au§ biefem ©runbe entljdlt ©uppe biefe 
tt)ertl;Do(le ©runblage geraoljnltd) blo§ in bein lo§lid^en 
©troeig, rcelc^eg al§ ©c^aum emporftieg. 3Senn bte 
^'oc^in biefen abgefc^opft ^at, ift hie ©uppe, raeld^e fie 
frdfttg nennt, el;er nod) frdfttg an ©eraiir^en, alg an 
DfJdl^rgrunblagen. 

Um ju ^eigen, rate augerft raentg roirfltd^e D^al^rung etne 
rooljlfdjmedenbe ^letfd^briiljfuppe entl;alten fann, rooHen 
mix eine t)on ^rof. itontg oorgenommene Slnalpfe geben. 

5tnalt)fe ber ©uppe. ^^ "«^«^ ^^" ^f""^ ^inbfleifc^ unb 
etraa 6^ Un^en JUalb^fnod^cn nnb bes 
l^anbelte fie, xvk er fagt, rote e§ gerobljnlic^ in ber ^iic^e 
ge[d;iel;t, um ein ^int guter, frdftiger ©uppe ober SSouils 
Ion 3u erl;alten. ©iefelbe ent^ielt: 

$rotein!orper, }^dtc, ©rtrafttoftoffe, ©al^e, 
1.19 $ro3. 1.48 ^roj. 1.83 ^roj. .32 ^ro^. 

2B0 aber finb bie (Siroei^ftoffe, bie 5U 5(nfang in bent 
gleifc^ geroefen? 35iele finb nod^ in ber 3dl;cn, Irodenen 
SOZaffe, bem „©uppenfleifc§'', ha^ nad) 5lngabe bcrilod^tn 
feinen SSertl) mel;r l^at. @g beftel^t an^ gefod)tcn 33inbes 
geroeben unb (Siroeig; biefe aber finb 9Za^rung§mittclunb 



S4 BxtracHves. 

A good German housewife was wont to discourse to 
the writer on the economical virtues of a certain 
**Frau Doctor" who ^^ always boiled her bones three 
times " and dwellers in many a household have had 
their nostrils assailed by the smell of glue, during 
the sixth hour of bone boiling. 

But if the importance of gelatine was and is still 
exaggerated, this is still more true of the other parts 
of meat that can be extracted by water. 
Sol. Albumen and We have Seen that hot water coag- 

Extractives. ulates proteid, and once coagulated, 
it will not dissolve in water, and for this reason the 
soup generally contains of this valuable principle only 
the soluble albumen which rose as scum. If the cook 
has skimmed this off, the soup which she calls strong 
is strong with flavors rather than with nutritive princi- 
ples. 

To show how very little real food a good tasting 
meat soup may contain, we will give an analysis made 
by Prof. Konig. 

He took 1 lb. of beef and about 6-^ 
oz. of veal bOnes, and treated them, he 
says, as is usually done in the kitchen to get a pint 
of good strong sou^d or bouillon. This contained 

Proteids, Fat, Extractives, Salts. 

1.19^ 1.48^ 1.83^ .d2fo 

But where are the albumens that were in the meat 
to begin with ? Many of them are still there in that 
stringy, sodden mass, the *^soup meat," which the 
cook tells us contains no further value. It consists 
of cooked connective tissue and albumen; now these 



Koitig's ^Inalyfc bcr Suppc. 25 

mu[[cn x>ox bcm ^Ibfadfn^^ beiuafjvt rccrbcn, bcnn mil 
.l^ilfe be§ ^ndfmefferg unb beg ilrduter[acfc§ fonnen roix 
fie- in unferen SetBcrn nod) immer Vic SDienfte con ^ros 
teiniforpern t)ernrf)ten laffen. 

2Bir!Itd^e $8ebeutung 2Benn wix raeber ba§ ©elattn, nod^ 
berSuppe. bte SSiirjftofre in unferen g(et[c^= 
briif;[uppen iiberfdjci^en, nod) ha^ Stetfd^ rcegracrfcn, au§ 
bem fie gemadjt raevben, fo roerben rvix anf angcn, ©uppen 
auf ber rid;ttgcn ©runblage gn mac^en, b. 1^. nut rid)ttgem 
5)crftanbni§ bc§ loirftidjcn 3Bertf;eg bev ©toffe, mit meU 
djcn rvix arbeiten, nnb xvix roeibcn bann ciedcidjt racntger 
l^dufig, al§ jct^t, ^-leifc^ ^n unferen ©uppen beniil^en, 
racnn rair feinen ^oljcn ^^rei§ unb ben Hmftanb in S^etrac^t 
^id)cn, ha^ mix e§, in anbcrer SKcife gefod^t, notf^roenbis 
ger brauc^cn. ©uppen foUten jcber^eit mcber alg ^uxu§' 
axtitd, nod^ al§ hk let^te 3"ffiid;t ber 3(nnut^ hctxa(i)tct 
racrben, fonbern aU notljraenbiger 23eftanbt^ei[ einer 
SOHttag^mnljIjeit, gerabe fo, n)ie fie jel^tnon alien ©laffen 
(Suropa§ gebvaudjt n)erben; fie braud^cn aber nid^t non 
guten gleifdjfdjnitten gemad;t ju juerben unb and; iiber= 
§aupt nidjt Don gleifd;. 

^rolein!6rper, tt)ie $Btr raollen nun unfere 5lufmerffant5 
mv fie faiifen. fcix ben ^^roleintorpern ^uroenben. tt)te 
wix fie !aufen. 

3Sir fbnnen Ijier nidjt W. d)cini\d)c ^iM'i^^^^^^f'^^^it^^S 
unb ben genauen dlal)xwcxtl) jeber ^leifdjforte nornefjmen, 
hk im g(eifd)erftanb, im ^ifd;marft unb ber ©eflitgel^ 
huhe gefauft raerben ifann. SSirmiiffenjcbod; einige rxiid)^ 
tige ^unfte bemerfcn. 
gteifd^Dom 9Bir raiffen, bag glcifd; uom SJlel^gerla^ 

ajle^gerlaben. ben tima 50—78 ^rojent SSaffer, je noc^ 
ber Cualitcit beg ©tiidfe§ unb ber 5trtbe§ Zi)k.c§> cntljiilt 
®ie meiften :?eute benfen beim gleifdjfaufen gnerft an bie 
rotF)en X(;eile; fie niogcn miffen, bag e§ oon ^ortljcit ift, 
gteifd^ 5U faufen, bag mit gett unterraadjfen ift, altein fie 



25 K'dnig^s Analysis of Soup» 

are foods and they must be rescued from the garbage 
barrel, for with the help of the chopping knife and 
the herb bag we can make them still do proteid duty 
in our bodies. 

Real importance If "WO do not overvalue either tiie 
of Soup. gelatine or the flavoring matters in our 
meat soups, nor throw away the meat out of which 
they are made, we shall begin to make soups on the 
right basis, that is an understanding of the real value 
of the materials we are working with, and we shall use 
meat for our soups less often than we now do perhaps, 
considering its high price and our greater need of it 
cooked in other ways. Soups should not be regarded 
as a luxury, neither as the last resort of poverty, but 
as a necessary part of a dinner, just as they are now 
used by all classes in Europe; but they need not be 
made of good cuts of meat, nor indeed, of meat at all. 
Proteid as we ^^ will now direct our attention to 

buy it. the proteid as we buy it. 

We cannot here take up the chemical composition 
and exact nutritive value of every kind of meat to be 
bought at the butcher's stall, the fish market and the 
poultry stand. But we must note a few points of 
importance. 

We know that butchers' meat con- 
tains from 50^ to 78^ of water, accord- 
ing to the quality of the piece and the kind of animal. 
Most people in buying meat think first of the *red 
part; they may know that it is advantageous to buy 
meat that is streaked with fat, but they hardly realize 
how wise it is to do so. As a rule, fat takes the place 
of water. Let us consult tables of analyses for the 



21ualyfc bcs ^Ici[d?cs. 26 

[inb fid) faum woHftdnbig kwugt, trie Hug e§ tft. ^n 
bev 9iegcl nimmt ba§ g-ett bie ©telle beg SSafferg ein. 
2Bir rcotlen 'Hk anal\)ti\d)cn XaheUcn iihcx hk Ouantito; 
ten uon 2Saffer, ^roteinforpern unb (Sticffto[f=($vtractcn, 
getten unb ©atjen 16etrad)ten, n)eld)e in mageren unb in ^dU 
unterroadjfenen ©tiid en ent^alten finb. ^n ^^xo\. Jlonig'S 
raevtfjDotler 5lb^nblung iiber bie SiZa^rungSmittel finben 
rair folc^e 5(nalp[en [orgfdltig an§ einer gro§en Ma\\e 
$rof. ^anig'g oon 3)lateriai; gefammelt, unb gefic^tet; 
%ltm^Una\t)\tn ^roBen t)on ^acfen^ (Sd^raana^ @^ulc 
ter;, ,g»interuiertelftu(fenu[ra., raie fieoom^e^gev ge!auft, 
rcurben analpfirt/nac^bem fie uon bent if;nen anijdngenben 
„©d)ic^tenfett" Befreit raaren, unb bie buvd}fd)nittli(^e gu^ 
fammenfe^ung atler oerfd^tebenen ©d^nitte tear folgenbe: 

getter unb ntogereg Dc^fen^ «r, rr ©tidftoffjiib^ ev... 
fteifd) t)ergltd)en. '^"''^^- ftangen. ^"^V 

3Son einem fef^r fetten 

Oc^fen 55.42 17.19 26.38 

3Son einetn mittelfetten 

Odjfen 72.25 20.91 5.19 

3Son einem mageren Od^fen 76.71 20.78 1.50 

®iefe "^ahcUcn iffuftriren, wk !lug e§ tft, gleifd^ von 
einent fel^r fetten X^iere ^u faufen. @ie jeigen, ha^ ein 
$funb gteifd) von einem fetten Oc^fen tne^r al^ 20 ^rog. 
meniger SSafjer entl;dtt al§ tin entfpred)enbe§ ©tiicf von 
einem mageren; natiirlid) fann ein fotdieg (Stiid 3 — 4 
^roj. roeniger ^roteinftoff ent^alen, allein ^um (Srfa^ 
bafiir rairb e§ 25 ^rojent me(;r gett l^aben. 

@eben mir eine anbere Xahttic, mcld^e tduftrirt, ha^ 
^^eile xvie ©d^tDangftiidfe nic^t hie an ^voteinforpevn unb 
getten am reid)ften finb, obfc^on fie ben fcinften ©efdjmadf 
^ben. ®ie§ mag ©enjenigen ^um ^rofte bienen, beren 
33orfe iljnen nid)t biefe foftfpieligen ©djnitte 3U faufen 
geftattet. 



26 Analysis of Meats, 

amounts of water, proteids and nitrogenous extrac- 
tives, fats and salts contained in lean pieces and in 
pieces streaked with fat. In Prof. Konig's valuable 
treatise on Foods we find such analyses, carefully col- 
lected and sifted out of a large amount of material; 
Prof. Ktinig's An- Samples of neck, tenderloin, shoul- 
aiyses of Meat. der, hind-quarter and so on, just as 
bought at the butchers', were analyzed after being 
freed from adherent himp fat, and the average com- 
position of all the different cuts was as follows: — 

Fat and lean ox Water Nitrogenous -p^^ 
compared. Substances 

% % % 

From a very fat OX _._ 55.42 17.19 26.38 

From a medium fat ox 72. 25 20. 91 5. 19 

From a lean ox _ 76.71 20.78 1.50 

These tables illustrate how wise it is to buy meat 
from a very fat animal. They show that a jiound of 
meat from a fat ox may have more than 20^ less 
water than a corresponding piece from a lean one; of 
course such a piece may contain from 3 to 4^ less 
proteid, but to compensate for this, it will have 25^ 
more fat. 

Let us give another table which illustrates that 
pieces like tenderloin are not the richest in proteids 
and fats, though they do have the finest flavor. It 
may help to console those whose purses do not allow 
them to buy these expensive cuts. 



Dtrf djtebcnc ^IctfdjfortcTt ocrglidjert. 27 

^ro^. ^ro^. ^roa. 

.galg 73.5 19.5 5.8 

©coulter 50.5 14.5 34. 

©c^roan^fturf 63.4 18.8 16.7 

^{nteruiertel 55.05 20.81 23.32 

^n biefem gade tft ber Unterfd^teb jraifd^en ©coulter 
unb @d)Tt)au5ftu(f, roa^ bie in jebem ent^altene SSaffer^ 
qunntitcit betrtfft, auffaltenb. 33et ^fjieren bte in bcr 
SiHitte gtcifd^en fett unb mager fte^en, fommen fic^ gute 
unb [c^led^tere ©titdfe in ber 3u[ammen[et^ung ndl^ev. 

3[Bir bebauevn, ba^ bcr Df^aum biefer 5ll6f)anblung nic^t 
3eid)nungen unb uollftdnbige ^tluftrationen ber Der[d)te= 
benen ^f;et(e eine^ ^l^icreg beijufiigen geftattct, mit be= 
taitirten Df^atl^fdjldgen, raclc^e ju faufen finb. Wit ^Ser^ 
gniigen raeifen xvix jeboc^ bet biefer ©elegenl^eit auf eine 
friiljere ^rei^fd^rtft — ,,@e[unbe SSol^nungen unb dlaf^x^ 
ung^mittel fiir hie arbeitenben (5;la[fen" — I}in, raeldjc niel 
ber §au§frDU notf^roenbige 2(u§!unft iiber hie Cualitdten 
unb ben DergTeic^Sraeifen 3Sert^ be§ g(ei[d;e§ t)er[c§iebener 
3;;^iere, ber Mild^ unb ber ^JJlitd^erjeugniffe gibt. 
©inige f^Ieifdiforten Unter bem gleifc^ an§, bem grei[d^er? 
tjerglic^en. la^^^.^^ miiffen roir jRinbfleifd) immer aU 
ha§ i)fonomifd;fte betrac^ten, raobet feine 3lu§n)al}l fid; 
nac^ hen oben angegebenen X^at\a6)en rid^tet. ^-ette^ 
•^ammelffeifc^ ftel^t ebenfaUS l^od^. 

(5{^weinefleif(fi. ^«« ^^3 S^gen ©(^raeinefleifc^ [agen, 
V)a§ man rviU, fo t|t e§ eine fef;r raertf); 
Dotle gleifc^forte, be[onber§ fiir ben 5lrmen, unb bie @e; 
je^e jur siegulation feine^ ^tu^fc^lac^teng unb 3Serfaufg 
follten fo ftreng fein, ha^ fie if)m @d}u^ Qewaljxen. ®ie 
gro§e 33ebeutung non eingefaljenem (Sc^raeinefieifc^ unb 
gerdud^ertem @ped 'i)ahen xvix unter hen „getten" in 33e; 
trac^t gejogen. 

Dtegeln iiber ben 9tn!auf t)on biefem gleifd) auf^uftcl; 
len ift t)on raenig 9^ut^en; rcir miiffen geroofjulid; nel)men, 



^^ Different Cuts Compared, 

Dif.partofox Water Nitrogenous -p , 

compared Substances 

'fo % % 

Neck 73.5 19.5 5.8 

Shoulder 50.5 14.5 34. 

Tenderloin 63.4 18.8 16.7 

Hind-quarter 55.05 20.81 23.32 

In this case the difference between shoulder and 
tenderloin as to the amount of water contained in 
each is striking. In the case of medium fat and lean 
animals, poor and good pieces approach each other 
more nearly in composition. 

We regret that the scope of this essay will not allow 
us to give drawings and full illustrations of the dif- 
ferent parts of an animal, with advice in detail as to 
what to buy. We are glad to mention in this connec- 
tion a former prize essay — "Healthy Homes and 
Foods for the Working Classes" — which gives much 
information needed by the housekeeper as to the 
qualities and comparative value of the meat from dif- 
ferent animals, of milk and milk products. 
Some meats com- ^^ butchers' meat beef must always 
pared. be considered the most economical, its 
choice being governed by facts just stated. Fat mut- 
ton also ranks high. 

Porh. Say what we may against 
pork, it is a most valuable kind of 
meat, especially for the poor man, and the laws gov- 
erning its slaughter and sale should be so stringent 
as to protect him. The great importance of salt pork 
and bacon we have considered under "Fats." 

It is of little use to give rules about buying this 
meat; we must generally take what the butcher fur- 



ififcfje. 28 

tt)a§ bcr 3}^el^ger Ikhxt, aUcin tctr fonnen e§ rccnigfteng 
gut fod)cn unb foUten c§ nicmal^ rof; effen, felbft rcenn 
cS gut geboiTt unb gerdud)ert ift. 

^ifc^e. ^M'^e- ^0"^ ©tanbpunn ber fparfamen 
^auSljciltertrt betrac^tet Derbtent ber %i]6) be? 
fonbcre (Svrodljnung; hie dlatnv bcforgt bet Upn bie %uU 
tevung, mix Ijahm hio^ fiiv ben g-ang ju be,5ar;[en. ^n 
ber ^al^re^^eit, in bcr fie ant bcftcn unb billigften finb, 
foUtcn fri[d)e gtfdje cielfad) genoffen raerben. 2Bir Brau; 
(S)en hie ^auSfrau blo^ baran gu evtnnern, ha^ [ie -^ — ^ 
von bem ®en)id)te etne§ gi[d;e§ an feincn ©raten unb 
[einem £opfe uerltert. 

©efatgene nub ge= ©ingefaljene unb gerdudjerte gi[d)e 
rdud^crte 5i|d;e. [{nb al^ ^k^rung§mitte( uon grower 33ei 
beutung, unb 3roar nid)t blog fur33en)ol;ner bcr ©eefiifte. 
©tngefaljener @toc!fi|"cl^ entljdlt nad; £6ntg'§ ^abellen 
30 ^U-Dj. ^roteinforper, unb biefe ^(;at[ad^c, Dcrbunben 
mtt bcni bidigen ^retfe, rcd)tferttgt oodftdnbtg feine 33e; 
Hcbtljcit bet fparfomen :2euten. 2(nbere eingcfaljene unb 
fonferntrte gi[cf)e, rate 3. 33. bcr .gsering, bringen 216^ 
raec^Slung in bie 9^a(;rung mandjcr armen gamilie. 
:2 e b e r, ^ e x ^ u. f. ra. 

^vnnere Draane . ^'^^ ^^" ^""'^^" Organen ber X^iere, 
^nnere ^rgone. ^.^ ^.^ ^^^ ^p^^ bctracfitcn, fd)d^en roir 

in bcr ^^at gerao^nlic^ blo§ bie :2eber. ®ie :l^ungc, ha^ 
©e^irn, bie 9Zieren, ha§ ^cr^ unb ber SQ^agen alg ^ali 
baunen jubcreitet, gcben gute 9lal;runggmitte( unb raer= 
ben in Sanbftcibten oft fe§r bittig nerfouft. S)cr ^opf 
Don ben meiften ^f;ieren, raie 00m £albe, ift au§gc;;cid)net 
fiir ©uppcn, unb anbere ©cric^te unb rairb auf bem 
I'anbe oft n)egge[cf)entt. 

@ i e r. 

@ier im SSergteid) mit l^leifd) Urn cine ^bee non bem oer; 
aB 9^a^ruuggmittel. gleidj^iDcifcn ^ertlj bcr @icr 
aH 9ta[)rung^mittcl ju befomnicn, raoUen rair fie mit 
mittetfettem 3fiinbflei[d) oergteic^cn. 



28 Fish. 

nishes, but at least we can cook it well, never eating 
it raw even when well dried and smoked. 

Fish. From the standpoint of the 
economist fish is worthy of especial 
mention; nature does the feeding, we have only to 
pay for the catching. In the season when it is best 
and cheapest, fresh fish should be used freely. We 
have only to remind the housewife that she loses ^ to 
\ of the weight of a fish in bones and head. 
Salted and smoked Salted and smoked fish is of great 
fish. importance as food, and not alone for 

people living on the sea-coast. Salted cod contains, 
according to Konig's tables, 30^ of Proteids, and this 
fact, together with its low price, fully justifies its 
popularity with all economical people. 

Other salted and preserved fish, as for instance, the 
herring, give variety in the diet of many a poor family. 

LIVER, HEART, ETC. 

Internal Organs. Qf the internal organs of animals gen- 
erally considered eatable, we really appreciate only the 
liver. The lungs, brains, kidneys, heart, and the 
stomach prepared as tripe, are good food and they are 
often sold very cheap in country towns. The head of 
most animals, as of the calf, is excellent for soups and 
other dishes, and in the country it is often given away. 

EGGS. 



compared To get an idea of the comparative 

with meats as i » i^ i i i 

a food. value of eggs as a food let us compare 
them with medium fat beef. 





Water 


Proteids 


Fat 




, % 


% 


% 


Medium fat beef has. 


_ 72.5 


21. 


5.5 


Effffs have 


. 74.5 


12.5 


12. 



(2ter. 29 

2Saffer ^roteinforper %eii 
^roa. ^roj. ^ros. 

TOttelfette§ DftmbfTeifd) ^at '72.5 21. 5.5 

@tev l^aben Y4.5 12.5 12. 

2Bir fel^en barau§, ha^^ rca^renb beibe ungefciljv gTeid;; 
md 2Baffer entl^alten, ba^ ^-feifcf; in hen ^l^roteiuforpern 
hen ^^orjug ^ai, (S-kv aber in gett, jDobei uod^ auf^erbem 
biefe^ gett uon fel)r feiner Oualitdt ift. 

^aufe (Stcr, luenrt fie am Mdigftcn finb, roie im 5(prir, 
too fie oft 3U 15 (5ent^ per ®it^enb oerfauft loevben; bie^ 
roiirbe 12^ ^cni^ per ^^[lutb au^mac^en, ba 10 (5ier 
burd^fc^nitttlic^ ciit ^sfunb @eit)id;t Ijaben. 3^^ biefem 
galTe fonnten fie fiir billiger Betrad;tet loerben, alg hie 
tl^euerften glei[dj|d)n{tte, abcr trol^bem nod) oiel tf^enrer 
al§ hie biHigeren Si^eile, xvie 3Seic^en, S^al§ nnb 33rufti 
fern jn 8 (5ent§. @ogar jn bicfcm Billigcn ^re[e finb 
fie baf;er eigentlic^ nod^ ein :SL^nru§ fiir hen 9!}kn[d)en, ber 
fic^ ^^roteinforper unb %ett in i^rer bidigften gorm oer- 
fd)a[|en mng. 

Unb roenn toit in 33etrad;t jiel^en, ha^ hex ^xei§ nur 
radl^renb eincr fnr^en 3eit im 3al)re fo niebrig ift — ha 
(§iex bnrd))d)nittlic^ ju 25 — 30 (JentS im SQZarfte fteljen, 
fo fiinnen fie fid^ al§ ^^?e ben bulkier im protein neben bem 
gleifc^ fd;led;t fcljen laffen. Singer im griil;jaf)r miiffen 
i)fonomi[cl^ oerautagte ^erfonen mit if^nen felbft hei ii)xen 
®e[fert§ fparfam iimgel^en. SBenn ^an^fjdtterinncn fa; 
gen, raie ic^ eg fdjon gel^iirt, ha^ (^icr ^u 25 G^ent^ ha^ 
3)u^enb bittiger ^eien aU %lei\d}, fo miiffen fie im ^Ser^ 
gleid) mit fel;r tl;eurem gleifdje fo reben. 

^ (i f e. 

Mfe (fetn ^a^rwert^.) 3" ^Imerifa mxh hex m\c me^r 
a(§ :2uru§artifet, benn ttl§ ftef^en? 
be§ Df^a^rungSmittel betrad)tet, unb bod) fommt ein ^^>funb 
^nfe an ^^dl^rraertf) me()r ai^ pvei ^^funb g-leifd) gleid§, 
ba er reid; an gett fomol;!, me an ^^roteinfijrpern ift. 



29 ^ggS' 

We see that while the water is nearly the same in 
both, the meat has the advantage in proteids and the 
eggs the advantage in fat, this fat, moreover, being 
of very fine quality. 

Take eggs at their cheapest, as in April when they 
often sell at 15 cents a dozen, that would be 12^ cents 
a pound, 10 eggs of average size weighing a pound. 
They could then be considered cheaper than the high- 
est priced cuts of meat, bat still much dearer than 
the cheaper parts, flank, neck and brisket, at 8 cents. 
So that even at this low price, they are somewhat of 
a luxury to the man who must get his proteid and fat 
in their cheapest form. 

And when we consider that only for a short time 
in the year is the price so low, — eggs being on an 
average quoted at 25 to 30 cents, the showing for them 
as a proteid rival of meat is poor indeed. Except in 
the Spring the economically inclined must be sparing 
of their use even in dessert dishes. When house- 
keepers say, as I have heard them, that eggs at 25 
cents a dozen are cheaper than meat, they must be 
speaking in comparison with very high priced meats. 

CHEESE. 

Cheese (its food In America, cheese is regarded more 
value.) ^g ^ luxury than as a staple article of 

food, and yet 1 lb. of cheese is equal in food value to 
more than 2 lbs. of m^eat, it being very rich in both 
fat and proteids. Considering this, its price is very 
low and it ought to be a treasure to the poor man 
and do good service in replacing sometimes the more 
expensive meat. 



nai^rt»ertli bes "Kafcs. 30 

SKenn trir bie§ berurffid^tigen, fo ift [ein ^rei§ ein fcl^r 
ntebrtger, unb er foUte ein wal;rer @cf)at^ fiir ben 5trnien 
feirt unb i^m gute 3)ienfte betm 3eitn)eil{gen (Srfat^ be^ 
foftfpieltgen glei[c^c§ leiften. 

SSerttjenbung beg 5?afe§ ^m 5lu§lanb mixh ^cin Wdljxmcvil) 
im ^ilu^latib. DoKfommcn anerfannt. %uv ben 
33aucrn in ber ©c^rcetj ift er etn fte(;enbe§ ^aljxnnc^^miU 
id, ba§ bloS bem 33rob tm S^tange nadjfteljt, wii^venb er 
and} in g^^^icn unb S)eut[d)(anb in fe[;r au§gebcl)ntem 
Ma[^e gcnoffen n)irb. 3)ie 3Ser[a[ferin Ijat einft mcl;rere 
3[Bod)cn in bem ^au[e eine§ bebeutenberen ©auern am5lb= 
^ang be§ ^t(atu^berge§ in ber ^d)mci^ ^ugebradit unb 
babei idgltc^ bie D^il^rung bctradjtet, xvdd)c hm (Srntear- 
beitern gereidjt raurbe. S)ie 3i:)eimat tdglic^ au\ ba§ 
gelb gefanbten Wal)l^dten beftanben ttu§ einem ^iertel 
graucn, ral^mlofen Itdfe nebft 23rDb. Man fagte mir, 
bag bie armen ^Oeute in ber ©cgenb faft gar fein ^leijd) 
effen, fonbern ^dfe an feiner @teEe geniegen^ 

^ie 35erfafferin ^at ferner hen J!)d[eDerbrau(^ in 
^eutfdjlanb ha)ha6)td. 3ebe ©egenb l)at bort il)re Be^ 
fonbere 55arietdt Don ber toeic^en, Don faurer Ttild) be= 
reiteten @orte, unb groge Ouantitdten ©djiueijerfdfe, 
ra^mlofer foraoljl, roie au§ t)o(IftdnDigcr -D^ilc^ bereiteter, 
roerben fonfumirt. @en)D(;nlid) tDirb er ungefoc^t gcgc[; 
fen, aber auc| al§ 3"^^^* ^^ gefod)ten ©peifen in ben 
manigfaltigften @erid)ten. 

SSerbaulic^feit beg ^^afeg. ®^^ ^d^rraert^ be§ j^dfeg un= 
terltegt !etnem 3^^Ucl/ allein 
feine ^Serbaulid^feit rairb in ^-rage geftellt. 3Senn luir 
jur Unterfnd^ung hic\c^ ^unfte§ fommcn, nierbcn rair 
finben, bag von beutfc^en ©eleljrten griinblid^e (Srperi; 
mente Dorgenommen worben finb. jDr, Otiibner, ein 
(BdjixUx ^oit§, gibt bie 9^e|'u(tate Don (Srperimcnten, hie 
er an fid^ fclbft Dorgenommen I;nt. @r fanb, bag er von 
^dfe atlcin nid)t uiel ^u gcniegen Dermod)te, mit Wliid) 
jebod; Dermod)te er leidjt 200 ©ramm ober naljcju 



30 Food Value of Cheese. 

Use of cheese Its food value is fully recognized 

abroad. abroad. For the Swiss peasant it is a 

staple second only to bread, while the use of it in 
Italy and in Germany is extensive. The writer once 
spent several weeks in the house of a large farmer on 
the slope of Mt. Pilatus in Switzerland, and observed 
daily the food given to the harvesters; the luncheon 
sent twice a day to the fields consisted of a quarter 
section of the grayish skim cheese, accompanied with 
bread. I was told that the poor people in the region 
ate scarcely any meat, using cheese in its stead. 

The writer has also observed the use of cheese in 
Germany. Every locality has its special variety of 
the soft kind made of sour milk, and great amounts 
of the Swiss, both skim and full milk, cheese are con- 
sumed. It is generally eaten uncooked, but also as an 
addition to cooked food in a great variety of dishes. 
Digestibility of There is no doubt of the food value of 
cheese. checsc, but there does seem to be some 

question as to its digestibility. When we come to 
inquire into this point, we find that thorough experi- 
ments have been made by German scientists; Dr. 
Eiibner, a pupil of Voit, gives the result of experi- 
ments on himself. He found that he could not con- 
sume much of it alone, but with milk he took easily 
200 grams, or nearly | lb. , and only when he took as 
high as 517 grams or over a pound daily, was it less 
completely digested than meat. Prof. Konig says, 
that in the amounts in which it is generally eaten, 
125 to 250 grams daily ( i to ^ lb.), it is as well digest- 
ed as meat or eggs. The extensive use of it abroad 
would seem to be some guarantee for the digestibility 
of the foreign varieties at least. 



Pcrbaulid^feit bes Kafcs. 3^ 

^ ^funb in fid^ aufjune^mcn, unb nur raenn cr fid; gu 517 
@ramm ober md)x alg einem ^funb per ^ag t)erftieg, 
raurbe er raeniger gut cerbaut al§ gteifd). ^vo[. Mbni^ 
[agt, bag er in hm gcraMjnlicf) per ^cig genoffenen Ouan; 
titaten, 125 — 250 @ramm per ^ag (^ — i-^funb) fo gut 
Derbaut roerbe, xvk ^feifc^ ober (5ter. 3)er auggebel^nte 
35erbrQuc^ im 2luglanb fotlte etne ©arantie fiir bie ^Sers 
baulic^feit tcentgftenS ber auSldnbifc^en @orten feiu. 

5tmerifani|'c^e ^dfe l^aben gerao^ntic^ einen fdjdrferen 
©efc^mad a(§ nugtdnbifd^e, tro^bem a6er ift e§ rca^r? 
fdjetnlid^, bag mit anberer S^a^rung n)o(;I cermengt 
mand^eS 3[Rat genug bauon genoffen roerben fonnte, urn 
einem SQZenfd^ert fein notljiDenbigeg tctglic^eg Cluantum 
uoit tl)ieri[d)em protein — 6 — 7 Un^en — ^u geben, unb 
^ic^ ift ein ©egenftanb von groger ^ebeutung uom btoi 
nomifdien (Stanbpunft betrac^tet. 



31 Digestibility of Cheese. 

American cheeses have in general a sharper flavor 
than the foreign, still it is probable that well mixed 
with other food, enough could be taken many a time, 
to give a man his needed daily quantity of animal 
proteid, — between six and seven ounces, — and this is 
a matter of great importance from an economical point 
of view. 



pl^thair^n tr^^ ^UiT47kcr4jcnfir, 



SBarum e^ §11 foc^en. ^^"^ ""^^ f^^''^ @rfte — raarum 
fod;cn rair eg ii&erfjaupt? 3^^ ^^'^* 
^^tev=, rate in bcr ^flan^cnracU giBt eg 9^af;vung§mittc[, 
bte fiir un§ ^um 5^erbauen fertig finb, rate bie 3L)Zilc^. 
'^lud) rof;e (Ster finb DoHfomnTcn »erbanlic§ unb n^erben 
oft i^ranfcn gegebcn. 2Bir Ijoxqu anc^ von „Jluren mit 
vol^em glcifc^", unb man ijat gefuuben, ha^ garteg, fa[ti= 
ge§ ^-leifc^ xoi), roenn eg fcin ^crljacft ift, fo ba^ bie 
©inbegeraebe jerriffen finb, fic^ red;t njoljl Dcrbauen Id^t. 

3l6er ben 3}leiften von un§ fc^mecft roT^eg g(eifd) nid;t, 
roal^renb eg ber foftlii^e ©efdjmad unb ©eruc^ enter gerofte^ 
ten ©c^nitte bem ©aumcn fefjr angenel;m mad)t, unb, 
roie rair gtauben miiffen, and) bem 3D^agen. 2Bir ^hvin^ 
gen ben ©efd^mad l^eraug", xvie mix fagen, inbem roir eg 
fodjen; mag tE;un mir aber fonft nod;? Unterfud^en mir 
Bufommenfe^ung ei,nital ein ©tiid gteifc^ mit ©ejug auf 

be§ gleifc^es. ^U ^Birhmg, meld)e hie 3Sarme auf eg 
augiibt. ®ev rotlje '^\)di beftel;t erftlid^ aug fel;r min5i= 
gen murftartigen (Scidc^en obev SJ^ugfelfafern, wie fie ge; 
nannt merben, unb in biefen ift ber foftbare ^roteinftoff 
ent^Iten, ©efd^madgsOteijmittet unb ©alje atle mit 
SSaffer ^ufammen ju einer 5(rt von ©aHerte gemifdjt; 
graeiteng finb biefe 9)iugfe(fafern burc^ ©trafjue con 
S3inbegemeben ^ufammengef^alten, mie bie rcei^fel^nige 
SQZaffe genannt mirb, in wddje bag gett unb bie 33lutgc; 
fdge eingelaffen finb; auc^ biefe finb oon 9^d(;rraertl^, 
jebod^ Don geringerem alg hk gafern. 3)ritteng, in ben 
©ciften aufgeBft, meld)e jroifc^en hen gafern unb ben 
©trd^nen fc^raimmen, ift ebenfattg cin ^roteinfiirper, 
bev Ibglidieg (Siraeig genannt mirb. ®ie fleinen protein; 



METHODS OF COOKHNTG MEAT. 



Why cook. And first — why do we cook it at all? 

In the animal as well as in the vegetable world some 
foods are all ready for our digestion, as milk. Raw 
eggs too, are perfectly digestible and are often given 
to invalids. We hear, of *' Raw meat cures," and 
it has been found that tender and juicy raw meat, if 
chopped fine to break the connective tissue, is well 
digested. 

But raw meat does not taste good to most of us, 
while the delicious flavor and odor of a broiled steak 
make it very acceptable to the palate, and we must 
believe to the stomach also. We '^ bring out the 
flavor," as we say, by cooking; what else do we do? 
Let us examine for a moment a piece of meat with 
structure of reference to the effect heat has upon it. 

meat. The red part is made up of, first, very 

tiny sausage-like bags, or muscle fibres as they are 
called, and in these is contained the precious proteid 
matter, flavors and salts all mixed together with 
water into a sort of jelly; second, these muscle fibres 
are bound together by strands of connective tissue, 
as that white stringy mass is called, in which the fat 
and blood vessels are lodged; this is also of food 
value, but inferior to the fibres. Third, dissolved 
in the juices floating between the fibres and strands, 

32 



Untcrfudjung bcr ^Ieifdj=^ibre. 33 

fddfdjcn fiitb, roenn rair an fie gelangcn !onncn, in unfe- 
ren SJidgen fo Uid)t vcxhauUd), wk ba§ SSei^e t)om (ji, 
obfdjon, raiebernm tuie beim Gi, il;r ©cfc^macf bnrc^ lci(f)= 
teg il'od)en gel^oben njirb. SSie mir jebod^ ge[et)en fjaben, 
finb fie in ben 33inbegen)el6en eingefperrt, fo ju fagen 
etma raie bie (Stdrifmet)lfornd)en ber Jl^artoffel im 3efl^ftoft- 

§luftt)eid^ung ber ^iefc§ 33inbegen)el6e fiinnen wix huxd) 
SBinbegenjebe (grl;il^ung aufraeic^en, raoburd^ wix e§ in 
eine Slrt t)on ©elatin Derraanbeln, aber ungliicflid^er 
2Beife erforbert hk§, rvenn ha§ gleifc^ nid;t fc^r jart ift, 
eine langere ^Inraenoung Don 2Bdnne, al§ gum i^odjen be§ 
hclifatcn ©iraeiftoffeS notl^raenbig, ber oolf t)on @e--: 
fc^macfg^Df^ei^mitteln ift, bie gar ju leid;t cerloren gel^en. 
®ie 5Uifn)eid;nng ber Sinbegeraebe, o(;ne ha^ ber (Jiraeigs 
ftoff gu ftar! fod)t, ift eine ber 3(ufgaben beg gteifi^s 
!od)en§. 

®ie ndc^fte ^rage ift, wie nnfere £od)metl§oben bie] en 
$(nforberungen entfpred;en, 

£ d; e n b e § ^ I e t f d§ e § in SB a f f e r. 

(grfte 5mett)Dbe. -^9^ ^^" ®^^^ magereS glcifd; in faU 
teg Staffer, erlji^e e§ langfam nnb beos 
bad)te bie 2Sirifung. ^a§ Staffer rotl^et fiii) Ieid)t, n)irb 
bann triib unb hei ^nnefjmenber ©rradnnnng von gelbs 
tidier ^-arbe; gulet^t Hdrt eg fid^, inbem eg einen ©d^anm 
an bie OBerftdc^e [teigen Id§t. Uuterfnd;en wix biefen 
@d^aum, fo finben wix, ha^ bag 3Baffer Diet Don bent logs 
lidjen ^-iraeig unb eine 3D2enge Don ben ©al^en beg 
g^eifc^eg unb anbere, ©rtraftioftoffe genannte (Subftanjen 
in \id) aufgefogcn l^at; unb jet^t beginnt ber ©eruc^ beg 
fodjenben gleifd;cg bie ^iidje ^u erfiitlen. ^e Idnger iinh 
langfamer ber (SrtDdrmunggprojeg Dor fid; gc(;t, um fo 
mel^r Don biefen ®ingcn gief^en rair l^eraug unb gcnau im 
fetben 33er![;dltniffe rcirb bag gleifd) fd^led)ter fein, raenn 
eg Ijerauggenommen rairb. 
6 



33 Examination of Meat Fibre. 

there is also a proteid called soluble albumen. The 
little bags of proteid, when we can get at . them, are 
as digestible in our stomachs as is the white of egg, 
though, like the Qgg again, their flayor is improved by 
slight cooking. But, as we have seen, they are 
imprisoned in the connective tissue, somewhat, we 
may say, as are the starch grains of the potato in the 
cellulose. 
Softening connec- This Connective tissue we can soft- 

tive tissue, en by heat, thereby turning it into 
a sort of gelatine, but unfortunately, unless the meat 
is very tender, this requires a longer application of 
heat than is needed to cook the delicate albumen all 
full of flavors too easily lost. To soften the connect- 
ive tissue without overcooking the albumen, is one 
of the problems of meat cookery. 

The next question is, how do our methods of cook- 
ing meet these requirements? 

COOKING MEAT IK WATER. 

1st. Method. p^t a piece of lean meat into cold 
water, heat it very slowly and watch the effect. The 
water becomes slightly red, then cloudy, and as the 
heat increases, yellowish in color, and finally it clears, 
sending a scum to the surface. If we examine this 
scum, we find that the water has soaked out much 
soluble albumen and a large proportion of the salts 
of the meat as well as other substantives called extrac- 
tives; and now the odor of the boiling meat begins to 
fill the kitchen. The longer and slower the warming 
process, the more of all these things we shall extract, 
and the meat when taken out will be in just that 
proportion poor. 



(£rftc JTtcttjobc bcim (fleifc^Fod^cn. zi^ 

©uppenfoc^en. ® ^^^ ^f^ ^^^ ^"^"^ ""^^^ ©uppcnf oc^en t)ers 
ftanbencn 33orgaitg fcljr einfac^, raenn rair 
ntdjtS mefjr um ba^ ©titcf g-fcifc^ gebeu, [onbern fo uiel, 
rote mmjlic§, atte 9lal;rung6bcftanbtf)ei(e unb ©efdjmacfSs 
rei^mtttcl au§ t(;m ^erau^fodjen, 9Zad^ eintgen ©tunben 
beg £od;en§ ftnben roir eg ^ufammengefdjrumpft, grau 
unb gcfd^madbS. @in ^unb, ber bamit aHetn gefiittert 
tciirbe, fonnte niir etnige 3:age leben. ^IHetn, tDte berettg 
bemerft, biirfen toir ntd)t ben ©djlu^ sicfjen, bag e§ feine 
9?al)rung mei;r entl}alte; ber 9)^agen raetft fie blog jei^t 
guriid, nadjbem fie t)on alien gefc^madreijenben @toffen 
getrennt ift. 

3tt)ette SlJJet^obe. ^^" ^^9^ "W" etn ©tiid gleif^ tn 
fiebenbeg 3Baf[er unb fet^e ha§ (Buhcn 
fort. 5)ie Stugenfeite be§ gleifd;e§ roirb bann plol^lid^ 
raeig unb e§ fteigt dma§ ®d;oum au§ bem 2Saf[er empor, 
frei(i(^ fcl;r racntg im 3]erglei(^ mitbem, raagroir hci ber 
erfteren ^DZetljobe ge[el;en l^aben. 2Sir ^ahen ha§ in all 
ben !(etnen ^^Vi^n auf ber Stugenfeite entl;altene ©iraeig 
gerinnen mac^en, unb 't)a§ loglid^e ©iroeig, bie gefdjmads 
reijenben ©toffe unb hie ©alje fommen nun nic^t nie^r 
l^eraug; biefe 3]erld)liej^ning ift jebod; nid^tganj codfom? 
men, unb e§ entroeic^t noc^ g^nug baoon in ha§ SBaffer, 
um eine fd;n)ad;e ©uppe ab^ugeben; eg ift jebod; eine gute 
9D?et(jobe, cin grogeg ©tiid ju fod;en, menu fie in biefer 
SSejieljung rid;tig burd)gefii{)rt mirb. SBenn mir jebod^ 
mit unferem greifc^fod^en m e i t e r fortfal^ren, 
b. 1§. bie ^emperatur auf 212^ l^alten, fo !od;en mir ha^ 
(^imei^ in ben ciugeren ;2ngcn ^u ftar!, el^e ha§ in ber 
Tlitte geronnen ift. Unter ^u ftartem ^odjeu ocrftelfjen 
mir, ha^ eg l^ornig unb gcfdjmadlog mirb, mie eg beim 
3Seigen eineg (Jig gefd)ie(;t, menu mir eg in ber altmobis 
fd;en 3Sei[e fod)en, inbem roir eg in fiebenbeg SBaffer 
racrfcn unb in biefem .f)il)egrab ertjalten. 9tadjben: roir 
hie 3Iuf^en|eite beg gteifd;eg t)erl;drtct lijaben, fo ba|^ hie 
©afte brinnen gel;alten merben, miiffen mir hie temperas 



34 First Method of Cooking Meat. 

Soup making. This is the process known as soup 

making, — very simple, if we care noth- 
ing for the piece of meat but to soak out of it all the 
food and flavors possible. After some hours of cook- 
ing we find it shrunken, gray and tasteless. A dog 
if fed on that alone could not live many days. How- 
ever, as we have before said, we are not to conclude, 
that it contains no more nutriment, but the stomach 
rejects it now that it is separated from all the flavoring 
matters. 

2nd Method. Now put a piecc of meat into 

boiling water and continue the boiling. The sur- 
face of the meat suddenly whitens and a little 
scum rises on the water, though very little compared 
with what we saw in the former method. We have 
coagulated the albumen contained in all the little 
cells in the surface of the meat, and the soluble albu- 
men, flavoring matters and salts cannot get out; the 
sealing up is not quite perfect, enough escaping into 
the water to make it a weak soup, but it is a good meth- 
od of cooking a large piece if properly completed from 
this point. But if we go on boiling our meat, that is, 
keeping the temperature at 212°, we shall overcook 
the albumen in the outer layers before that in the 
center is coagulated. By overcooking, we mean 
making it horny and flavorless, as we do the white of 
an egg if we cook it in the old-fashioned way, by 
dropping into boiling water and keeping it at that 
heat. Having seared the outside of the meat to keep 
the juices in, we must lower the temperature. The 
albumen coagulates at between 160° and 170°, but 
the water in the kettle may be a little above this, as 



gtpeitc ItTctl^obc bcim ^Ictfd^Fodjcrt. 35 

tux fittfcn laffcn. ^a§ (Stroeig gerinnt bet 160 — 170°, 
aUein ba^ 3Sa[fer tm ^effel fann dxoa^ bariiber ftef)en, 
weil eg beftdnbig 3Sdrme an ba§ ^unere be§ glet[c!^e§ ab= 
geben mug. ®te aUgemeine SfJegel ift, ha^ eg b(o§ 
„33ra[en roerfen" ober „ftrubehi" foil, unb raenu tik 
kod)in nid^tg 33effere§ t^n fann, mug fte [ic^ nod; biefen 
Sln^eidjen ridjten. 3)ag bie ridjttge ^emperatur jum 
gleifc^foc^en unter bem @iebpun!t ift, raeig mand)e in- 
tetligente ,g)aug]^altertn, rate aber foil fie raiffen, menu ba§ 
Staffer auf 170^ ftel^t? ^ier fommeu mir ^u bem 
fd^radc^ften $unft in ber ^aug!^alt!iid)e; Derfc^iebene .I^it^e? 
grabe dugern and) oevfc^iebeue 3Sirfungen auf hk ©pei= 
fen, bie mix foc^en, atlein bie .I^augl^dlterin ift nur einer 
Xemperatur fid)er, ndmlic^ ber be§ fod^enben 2Baffer§. 

33etreffg ^Inraenbung be§ ^!§ermometer§ unb ber 
2Bdrm;3l|)parate f. @. 43 unb 44. 

Um jebod) raieber ^ur (Bad)e ^u gelangen; gibt e§ benn 
feine SSeife beg ^oc^eng, roeldie im gleifdie alle biefe @es 
fc^madtg^Sfteijmittel, ©al^e unb ©imeigftoffe l)dlt, gerabe 
fo raie bie 9Zatur fie gemi[d)t l^at? ^a mu^l, eg gibt 
bret SD^et^oben — bag ©c^moren in %ztt, bag 33acfen im 
Ofen unb bag Sf^often auf jto^len. 

©dimoreningett. ^^^' ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^f^^^^ unterfuc^en. 
2Benn roir ein biinneg ©tiicf gleifd^, mie 
ein mit (Si unb 33rob iiberjogeneg Sotelette in fiebenbeg 
}^cU taucfien, gerinnt bag ^-ett an ber Slugenfeite, ober 
rid)tiger an bem @i, bag eg umgibt, mie beim ^od^en, 
allein biegmal bemaljrt bie dugere S^^inbe bie @dfte nod^ 
beffer, meil fic^ bag %ctt nic^t mit il^nen oermengt, mie 
mit bem Staffer, ^ebermann raeig, raie eine auf biefe 
SSeife gefoi^te 2lufter il^re @dfte be^dlt. 

Sacfen beg Sletfc^eg. ^Benn mir ein ©titd gleif^ im 

Ofen baden, fo ge^en mir m berfeb 

ben SSeife Dor; roir uer^drten W ^lugenfeite in ^ctt, in= 

bem rair ben ©raten in einer Heinen Ouantitdt in einem 



35 Second Method of Cooking Meat. 

it must constantly transfer heat to the interior 
of the meat. The general rule is that it should 
'* bubble" or *^ simmer" only, and if the cook can do 
no better she must follow these indications. That 
the true temperature for cooking meat is below the 
boiling point, many an intelligent housekeeper knows, 
but how is she to know when the water is at 170°? 
Here we come upon the weakest point in household 
cookery ; various degrees of heat have different effects 
on the foods we cook, but of only one temperature is 
the housekeeper certain — that of boiling water. 

For the use of the thermometer and the heat saver 
see pages 43 and 44. 

But to return ; is there no way of cooking that will 
keep in the meat all these flavors and salts and albu- 
mens, just as nature mixed them ? Yes, there are 
three ways, — frying in fat, baking in an oven, 'and 
broiling over coals. 

We will examine the first. If we 

Frying in fat. , i i • • ^ j. j. 

plunge a thin piece oi meat, as a cut- 
let coated with egg and breadcrumbs, into boiling 
fat, the albumen in the surface or rather in that of 
the Qgg surrounding it is coagulated as in boiling, 
but this time the outer rind preserves the juices still 
better because the fat will not mix with them as will 
water. Everyone knows how an oyster cooked in 
this w^ay retains its juices. 

When we bake a piece of meat in the 

Bailing meat. , , • ,^ 

oven, we start m the same way; we 
sear the outside in fat, turning the roast about in a 
small quantity of fat made hot in a kettle; we then 
transfer it, still in the kettle or pan, to a hot oven 



^adcn bes ^Icifdjcs. 36 

^e[fe( Ijeig gemad^ten ^^ettc§ umljerbre^en; bann bringen 
mix e§, nod) in bent ^effel ober in ber ^fanne, in einen 
l^eigen ^Bacfofen, rao ber ^od)pro3e6 rteruottftanbigt rairb; 
in fur^en 3^M'i)<^"^^"^^^^" befeudjten ivix jebod; "ok 
3lugen[eite ntit bein gett in ber ^[anne. 2Biirben roir 
ben Sraten nid^t begte^en, fo raiirben rair eine bicfere 
Sage uon grauem, ge[d)ma(f(D[em gleifc^e unter^lb ber 
ctu^eren, braunen ^rufte finben, unb tf;at[d(i)(i(^ loiirbe 
ba§ ganje (gtiid (ange Dertrocfnen hi^ bie Mittt un[ere§ 
33raten§ ha^ ©tnbium be§ @erinnen§ erretc^t ^at; voir 
begiegen, nm bie ©dfte brinnen ^n bel;alten, roelc^e, roie 
wiv rciffen, fid; mit bem ^ctt nidjt »ermifd)en, unb au<^ 
hamit blo^ ein milber SSdrmegrab, ber ben ©erinnpunft 
ber ^roteinforper nid^t iiber[d)reitet, an ba§ ^nnere iiber= 
tragen rairb. ^n ben 3^M"<i)^"^'^i^i"^" beg 33egie6en§ 
bringt 2Ba[[er ang bem g-(eifd}e l^eruor unb uerbampft, 
unb ber l^o^e 2Bdrmegrab.beg 33a(fofen§ tuirb bei biefer 
^Berbampfung in ber ©r^iljung beg 23egieg[ette§ unb uiel^ 
leic^t (roenn ein fo Ijofjer SBdrmegrab erreidjt roirb) hei 
feiner, ^^^fet^ung unb ber Umdnberung f leiner Ouantitd= 
t^n von (Srtraftioftoffen Derauggabi, woburd; bag ^-(eifd^ 
„fd}madlf)aft" loirb, unb fo fommt eg, ha^ nur ein milber 
SSdrmegrab in 'i)ic Wlittc beg ©tiicfeg einbringt. 3!}Zan 
fodte !aum glaubcn, ba^ bie innere ©eite eineg ^rateng 
mit i^rer I;elIrot(;lid;en garbe unter bem 3;:(;ermometer 
b(og 160^ au^mei]t, unb bod; fann bieg ^ebem mit einem 
langen (SI;emifer=Xfjermometcr bemiefen merben. 

Obfd^on etmag Staffer aug unferem gkifd;e oerbampft 
ift, finb bie (Srtracftiuftoffe unb (Sal^e in groj^erem Wa^- 
ftabe 5;uriirfgel)a[ten morbcn, alg beint ©icbcn, raie roir 
aug einer [pdter gegebenen ^abede erfel^en merben. 

dtMitn, ^^i^T- 9^often fommt genau baffelbe ^Srinjii) 
in 5(nn)enbung, wic beim 33aden, inbem babei 
bag Oarmadjen oermittelft erljit^ter IHift bemerfftelligt 
n)irb. ®ie trodene j?:of;lenrji^e mirft auf bie dujjcre 
©c^idjte beg gieifd)eg ein, mie bie Ijeige Suft im 33adofen. 



36 Baking Meat. 

where the process of cooking is completed, but at 
short intervals we moisten the surface with the fat in 
the pan. If we did not baste the roast, we would 
find a thick layer of grey, tasteless meat inside the 
outer brown crust, and indeed the whole piece would 
dry long before the center of our roast had reached 
the coagulating point; we baste, in order to keep 
in the juices which, as we know, will not mix with 
the fat, and also that only a mild degree of heat, not 
exceeding the coagulating point of proteids, may be 
transmitted to the interior. In the intervals of our 
basting, some water is driven out of the meat and 
evaporated into steam, and the high heat of the oven 
expends itself in evaporating this, in heating the 
basting fat, and perhaps ( if it reach so high 2o tem- 
perature ) in decomposing part of it, and in changing 
the chemical character of small quantities of extrac- 
tives, thus making the meat ^Hasty," and so it hap- 
pens that only a mild degree of heat is passed into 
the center of the piece. "We would hardly believe 
that the inside of a roast, with its light pink color, 
registers only 160° by the thermometer, yet this can 
be proved by anyone with a long chemist's thermom- 
eter. 

^.Ithough some of the water of our meat has evap- 
orated, the extractives and salts are retained to a 
larger extent than in boiling, as we shall see by the 
table given later. 

In broiling, the principle applied is 

^^^ ^^' exactly the same as in baking, the 

cooking being done by the medium of heated air. 

The dry heat of the coals affects the outer layer of 



Hoflcn bes ^letfdjcs. 57 

33e{ bicfcn betben 3}ietI;Dben, Derfudjeu tt)ir, gerabe rate 
beim ^oc^en, bie ^emperatur iinfcreg ^od;mebiumg ge^ 
rabe Ijocf) gcnug gu er-^alten, um bie §{t^e fortraafjrenb in 
ba§ 3^^^^^^'^ ^^^ 5'^^if'^^^ einbringcn 511 macfien. 

3Sir l^aben nun gelernt, roie ba§ ©iraeig l^inretc^enb 
unb nic^t ^u ftarf gefodjt raerben mug, unb raie man bie 
gefd^madreijenben @toffe im }^Ui\d) er^lt; roie aber oers 
5art e§ fid; mit bem ^inbegeraebe unb raa^ iftmit i(jm hci 
unferen uerfc^iebenen Jl'oc^njeifen gc[d;e^en? 

Barteg gleijc^. ^^"" ^^"f^^ S^eifc^ uon ben jarteren 
^l^eilen dm^ ^^iere§ Dom ridjtigen filter 
abgefdinitten ift, ba§ raofjt gefilttert unb gemdftet mar, 
unb menu e§ nad) bem ©c^tac^ten lange genug aufbe^ 
ma!^rt murbe, fo meidien bie 33inbegemebe md(;renb ber 
5um .^odjen bc§ (^imeigeS nac^ ber befc^riebenen 3QZet!^obe 
not^menbigcn g^ttbauer fo auf, ha^ fie egbar merben. 
gieifc^ ber 5lrt unb fo gefoc^t mirb tmmer ^art nub ge^ 
fd^madreid^ [ein. 

Bafieg gleifd). ^^"" '^^^ ^^^^^^ i^^^* ^^^ ^^" ^d^eren 
•X^eilen abgefd)nitten ift, oon einem alten, 
Dber fd^(ed)tgefiitterten ^^iere ftammt, ober gu rafc^ nad^ 
bem ©c^lad^ten gefod^t mirb, fo XDei(i)t ha§ 23inbegemebe 
in biefer ^tii nidjt auf; mir miiffen bann mit ber2tnmenb= 
ung ber Srl^i^ung fortfal^ren, bi§ biefeg ©emebe mei^ 
mirb. 

SSergteici^ ber 5!}let^oben: 2Ba§ fiir eine ^od^metf;obe mir 
1) S3etrep ber Oualitat an^umenbcn Ijaben, l;dngt bal;er 
beg gleifdieg. ^^^^ ^^j. nnaritdt beg gleifc^eS 

ah, meld^e§ mir T^aben. ©djuittabfdlle unb ^ixlje 'l.ljeiU 
oermenben mir ^u ©uppen, mobet mir ge[d}madtofe§ 
g(ei[c^ am nad)ften ^age ^u j^erfjaden unb burd; B^^fj^^^ 
anberer Oemiirje fd^madl^aft ju madden beabfi^tigen. 
(StmaS beffere ©tilde, bie jebod^ nod; langefi ^oc^en er? 
forbern, um ha§ 33inbegemebe WQid) ju madjen, tonnen $u 
gebdmpftem gleifc^ ober 9^agout i)erarbeitet obcr menu 



37 Broiling Meat. 

the meat, as does the hot air of the oven. In both 
these methods, just as in boiling, we try to hold 
the temperature of our cooking medium just high 
enough to keep the heat traveling toward the in- 
terior of the meat. 

We have now learned to cook the albumen enough 
and not too much and to keep the flavors of our meat; 
what about the connective tissue, and how has that 
fared with our different modes of cooking? 

If our meat is cut from the tenderer 
parts of an animal of the right age, well 
fed and fattened, and if it has been kept long enough 
after killing, the connective tissue will soften into 
eatable condition in the length of time required to 
cook the albumen by the methods described. Such 
meat, so cooked, will always be tender and full of 
flavor. 

But if the meat is cut from the 

Tough meat. , , , „ u -n 

tougher parts, or from an old or ill- 
fattened animal, or cooked too soon after killing, the 
connective tissue will not soften in that time ; we 
must continue the application of heat till this tissue 
softens. 
Methods com- Therefore, what method of cooking 

to'^^^uaii?^' of ^® ^^^^^^ ^^®' depends on the quality of 
meat. the meat we have. Trimmings and 

tough portions we will make into soup, expecting to 
chop the tasteless meat next day and add other flavors 
to make it palatable. Somewhat better pieces, but 
still requiring long cooking to soften the connective 
tissue, may be made into a stew or ragout ; or if the 
piece is large and compact, boiled in water; but meat 



Derglcid^ung bcr HTetbobcn. 38 

'Oa§ ©tiicf groB unb fompaft ift, in 2Baf[er gcfotten raer= 
ben; aber gieifc^ bag gart uiib faftig ift (betreffs 33erbe[i 
[evung von ^dijem g(ei|d)e f. ©. 45) foUte gefod)t, ge= 
bacfen ober gerbftet joerben, roobei man am bfteften hk 
let^tere 2}ktl)obe 311 ma^iax l)at, mdi fte bie ©dfte unb 
ben feinen ©efc^marf, ber ber dugeren ©c^ic^temitget^eilt 
roirb, beffer ^uriicf^dit. 

2) ©parfamfeit. '^^^^ l'^9^ ""^' ^'^^ 23arfen oberD^ibften 
fet eine [e^r cerfc^raenberifdje SSeije beg 
gretfd)fo(^en§; roenn roir tDirflic^ fporjam fein raoHen, 
muffen rcir bas gleifi^ ftetg [ieben ober bdmpt^n, iDobei 
rair unfer gleifd) ober [eine ©dfte hcnixi^cn foUten, urn 
unferen ©emii[en 5iBo^Ige[d)macf ^u oerki^en. ®amit 
fbunen toir nid;t iibereinftimmen, benn eg raitrbe ung ^u 
einer (5in[brmigfeit t)erurtl;ei(en, hie (elbft bem 3(rmen 
unertrdgtic^ radre. ©effer ift ^urceiten ein fteincreg 
©tiirf gerbfteten ober gebacfenen gleifc^eg mit feinem beti:; 
cibfen, ftimutirenbcn ©efc^macf unb eine (Suppe aug 5Se; 
getabitien mit ilrdutern geroiirjt. 5tu^erbem finb nac| 
ber ^n[id)t ber @ete^rten Sacfen unb ^ibften fein e oer^ 
fc^raenberifdjen SO^ettjoben. ^c^ citire oon einer Labette 
^ro[. jtonigg, in xvdd)cx hie Otefuttate einer 5(naty[e 
oon ro^em ?iinbf[ei|c§ unb nad) bem ©ieben unb ^raten 
gegeben ift. dlol) entf;ie(t eg 86 ^roj. Grtraftiuftoffe 
(meift ftirfftoffI)attige jtbrpcr; [e^r raidjtig alg ^eranlafi 
[er beg ftimutirenben ©erud)g unb (^e|'d)ma(fg) unb 1.23 
^roj. ©atje. 

(Ertraftioftoffe ©at^e 

g5roa» g3ro3. 

dio'i) 86 1.23 

9^a^ bem ©ieben .40 1.15 

D^a4 bem ibraten 72 1.45 

SDer 3Sorjug ift, roie man fiel^t, auf ^eite beg S3rateng, 
[orao^ilraag (Srtraftioftoffe, raie ©atje betrifft. ^erSSafs 
[eroertuft ift in beiben ^diicn faft ber g(eid)e. 2Sag ben 
gettoertuft beim D^^often eineg ^eeffteafg betrifft, fo ift er 



38 Methods Compared, 

that is tender and juicy (and for improving tough 
meat see page 45 ) should be boiled, baked or broiled, 
choosing oftenest the last two methods, because of 
the more perfect retention of the juices and the fine 
flavor given to the outer layer. 

We are told that baking or broiling 

3d, as to economy. , p ^ <? i • , 

IS a very wasteiul way oi cookmg meat ; 
that if we would be truly economical we would always 
boil or stew, using our meat or its juices to flavor 
vegetables. From this we must dissent for it would 
condemn us to such a monotony as would be unen- 
durable even to the poor. Better sometimes a 
smaller piece of broiled or baked meat with, its deli- 
cious and stimulating flavor, and make our soup of 
vegetables and season it with herbs. Besides, accord- 
ing to the scientists, baking and broiling are not 
wasteful methods. I quote from a table of Prof. 
Konig's, wherein are given the results of analysis of 
beef raw, after boiling and after '^hratenJ^ Kaw, it 
contained .86^ extractives (nitrogenous bodies most- 
ly; very important as giving the stimulating smell 

and taste) and 1.23^ salts. 

Extractives Salts 

Raw 86^ 1.23^ 

After boiling 40^ 1.15^ 

After ''hraten'' _ 72^ 1.45^ 

The advantage is seen to be in favor of " hraten " 
both in regard to extractives and salts. The loss of 
water was nearly the same in both cases. As for the 
fat lost in broiling a beef steak, that is indeed a loss, 
but one to be made up in some measure by the smaller 
quantity of fuel necessary to cook the meat. The 



Bercttung von $uppcn. 39 

tr;atfd(^n(f) ein 35erluft, ahcx ein [old)er, ber in gett)tf[em 
3D^a^e burc^ bie fteinere Ouantitdt be^ ^um ©armadjcn 
be§ ^Icifc^eg notljiDenbigeu ^cuevung^materialg raieber 
erfet^t tuirb. 5(ug bem ^cv(uft btcfe^ getteS braudjt man 
fid; nid^t fo uiel ^n mad;en, bi§ tt)ir in oielen anberen, 
nod^ raic^tigeren 23e3iel)ungen 33effere§ gelernt l^aben. 

SDie ^(jilofopl^ie be§ g-leifc^fodienS nad) ben cerfdjiebe^ 
nen SQZet^oben tjaben rcir be^anbelt, unb ratr raerben jel^t 
Dollftdnbige, roeitere 3lnu)ei[ungen iiber bie Stugfii^rung 
biefer SDlet^oben geben. 

33ereitung t)on (BinpTf) en. 
SlJlatenalien fiir bie 30^agere§ gleifc^ won irgenb etner 
©uppenbereitung. (gorte; 9ttnbflei|c^ am beften; frifc^ bef. 
fer aH langau[ben)a^rteg;ilnod;en an^ert^ am ndc^ften, 
befonber§ bie fc^roammigen 9^ippen; unb ^Sirbelfnodjen. 
(Sdge unb ^erl^ade bie ^tnodjcn m ftetne ©tilde, —fd)neibe 
ba§ gleifd) fiein. mdd)c^ iBaffer ift beffer al§ ^arteS. 

SDletfjobe beg ^oc^eng. "^^^^^ ®^^/ ^^^^ mogli^, fiir 
biefen 3^^^^ au^fd^Iie^Iic^ einen 
£effel unb rairf in i^n aUe g(eifd)= unb Jl'noc^enftiide, hk 
fid) anijdufen. Sege ha§ gleifc^ in falteg SSaffer unb 
taffe e§ einige ©tunben ftef;en, menu e^ moglid) ift; ev^ 
rodvme e§ nad; unb nad) unb I;alte e§ im ©t rub ein. 
3mei ©tunben ober ctwa^ rceniger bringen atle gefc^mad; 
reijenben ©toffe aug bem gleifc^ r;erau§, eine uicl (dngere 
3eit abcr ift not(;n)enbig, menu man alle 9^al;rung§ aug 
ben Jlnoc^en l;erausbefommen mitt. 

5lbfd)dumen. ©ntferne ben ©^aum nid;t; er entf;dlt 
ha§ ^mci\^ ber ©uppe unb ntc^tg ^Inftii^is 
ge§, menu bag gfeifd; tiid;tig gereinigt morben ift. (^ine 
©tunbe nor bem 5lnrid;ten ber ©uppe gebe 'i)k ©eraiir^e 
ba^u; ^michd unb gelbe Df^iiben finb am beften; ©eUerie, 
©ommer=©aturei unb ^eterfitie finb am ndd^ften. ^er; 
raenbe anbere mie IRelfen, 3}hig!atnuf!, I'oorbeerbtdtter 
ufra., nur gelcgentlid;. (3ih ©al^ unb ^feffer gevabe 
t)or bem 2(nrid)ten gu. 



39 Soup Mahi7ig. 

loss of this fat need not be made so much of, until we 
have learned to do better in many other still more 
important directions. 

The philosophy of cooking meat according to the 
different methods has been treated, and we will now 
give a few additional directions as to carrying out 
these methods. 

SOUP MAKING. 

Materials for Soup Lean meat of any sort, beef best; 

making. fresh, better than that long kept; 

bones of next value, especially the spongy rib bones 
and vertebrae. Saw and chop the bones into little 
pieces, — cut the meat small. Soft water is better 
than hard. 

Method of Keep a kettle, if possible, for this 

making. purpose alone, and add to it all bits of 

meat and bones as they accumulate. Put the meat 
into cold water, let it stand some hours if possible, 
heat very gradually and keep simmering. Two hours 
or less brings out all the flavors of the meat, but a 
much longer time is necessary to get all the nutri- 
ment from the bones. 

Do not remove the scum; it contains 
the albumen of the soup, and nothing 
objectionable if the meat was well cleaned. 

An hour before the soup is served add flavors; 
onions and carrots are the best, celery, summer sa- 
vory, and parsley next. Use others, as cloves, nut- 
meg, bay leaf, etc. , only occasionally. Add salt and 
pepper just before serving. 

When done, strain and skim off all fat (better if 



^letfd? 3U ftcbett. 40 

2Senn fie gar i]t, \dl)c unb fc^opfe aUe§ ^ett a6 (nod^ 
beffer tft eg fie big gum ndd)ften 3:ag fteljen gu Inffen, 
baitn bag g-ett abjul^eben unb hie ©uppe einfac^ raieber 
aufjuroarmen) unb gib nod^ ^^tngu, raag 3)u raitTft. 

(2Bir giel^en ©uppen mit abgef^opftem %dt vox, hie 
5(rbeitgleute in ©uropa mit i^ren abgcfjcirteten Tla^en 
finhcn eine mit 5( u g e n bebecfte ©uppe beffer.) 

^iefe e^egeln gelten fiir aUe gleifc^fuppen. §ammeU 
fleifc^ gibt eine fvaftige unb na^vl)a\te '^up^e^ ilalbfleifc^ 
eine fel;r belifate. @ine t)or3iiglid;e @uppe rairb au^ 
etnem ^albgfopf bereitet. 

3)ag ©teben. 

^Uiicf) gu fieben. ^^B^ bag gteifc^ in !oc3^enbeg 3Saffer, 
bringe eg rafd) raieber gum ©ieben unb 
l^alte e§ hahei 10 a}Zinutfn lang; erniebrige bann hie 
^emperatur (raie ®. 35) unb Ijalte fie fo big bag gleifd^ 
in ber mitte 160—170^ SSdrme erreii^t, ober feine 
garbe con hlaulidi) in rot^ oerdnbert f)at, unfere Qmo^m 
lic^e ^robe. 33etreffg ^Sermenbung beg „2Bdrme[parap5 
paratg " gu btef em Sroed e f . @. 44. 3tnbraten, h la mode, 
jlcffelbraten finb btog DJ^obificationen biefer 9}^etr;obe. 

©ebdmpfteg gleijd^ ®ieg ift eine Combination 00m (Bup-. 
§u bereiten. penbereiten unb ©ieben. Q^erraenbe un= 
tergcorbnete Zl)cile, gerfc^neibe in ©tilcFe unb fodje, menn 
moglic^, hd 110^, big fie gart finb. (Jine r^albe ©tunbe 
oor bem 5Inrirf)ten miirge in irgenb einer 2Beife, hie 55)u 
raiinfc^eft. ©. ^Beitc 47. 

3n ^ctt braten. 

9?ierenfett gum Steifci):= 3)ag gu biefem gmecfe ju rer^ 
braten 5u bereiten. menbenbe ©djmeinefc^matg foUte 
man gu ^auje augbraten laffen, affcin atinbgfett ift hit-, 
tiger, unb menu eg fdubertic^ gubreitet ift, tann niemanb 
etroag gegen fcinen ©efc^macf einmenben. 



40 Boiling Meat. 

left to stand till next day, the fat removed and the 
soup simply rewarmed), and make such additions as 
you wish. 

[We prefer our soups with the fat removed, but 
the laboring people of Europe with their hardy stom- 
achs find a soup much better if covered with "eyes."] 

These rules apply to all meat soups. Mutton 
makes a strong and nutritious soup, veal a delicate 
soup. An excellent soup is made from a calf's head. 

BOILING. 

Put the meat into boiling water, bring 

To boil meat. . o ^ o 

quickly again to a boil and keep so for 

10 minutes, then lower the temperature (as see page 
35), and so keep it till the meat in the center has 
reached 160°-170°, or has changed in color from 
bluish to red, our usual test. For use of the " Cook- 
ing Safe " for this purpose, see page 44. Braising, 
"a la mode", kettle roasts, &c., are but modifications 
of this method. 

To make meat This is a Combination of soup mak- 
stews. ing and boiling. Use inferior parts, 

cut in pieces and cook, at 170° if possible^ till tender. 
Half an hour before serving, season in any way you 
wish. See page 47. 

FRYING IN FAT. 

How to prepare Lard if used for this purpose should 

Suet in which to , , • ^ , , , \ , ■, - ,. , • 

fry meat. be tried out at home, but beef lat is 

cheaper and if nicely prepared no one can object to 
the taste. 



^ratcn in ^ctt. 4^ 

3etfd)netbe frifdjeS 9^ierenfett tn ©tiidfe iinb iibergiefjc 
e§ iiiit faltem 3Ba[fcr; lag e§ einen ^ag lang fteljen, in= 
bem ®u Don ^dt 311 3^^^ ^"^^ SBaffer raedjfelft. ®ie§ 
benimmt t^m ben eigentl^iimlidjen ^algge[d}mad. "^nn 
bringe e§ in eincn eifernen J^effet mit einer tjalhcn ^fjce? 
taffe 3Jcilc^ ju jebcm ^funb D^terenfctt unb laffe e§ lang; 
fam fieben, !6i§ bn§ gett ftar tft unb eine IjeUbraunc 
garbe I;at unb ba§ $ra[[e[n Beim ©ieben aufljort. SDie 
©tiicfe !ann man nut einem Soffel Dom 33oben loSlofen, 
atlein man barf nidjt umriiljren; menu e§ anSrennt, tft 
ber ®efd)ma(f uevborben. 9^un laffe man e§ ftel;en unb 
etroa§ abfiiljlen, harm gtege man e§ in 3^affen ah unb 
laffe e§ fait merben; e§ fc^medt bann fo fiig mie 33utter 
unb !ann tn ctelen %atien \tatt bcrfelBen wermenbct rvcvi 
ben. 3)a§ noc^ tn ganjen ©tiiden iibrtg gebltebene^ett 
fann man au^preffen unb filr meniger (Sorgfalt erfor^ 
bernbe ^medc uermenben. 

5ltle§ reine ^ett, fogar .gammelfett, !ann beim j^od^en 
gebraudjt unb foUte au§gebraten unb fduberltd; aufbes 
malirt merben* 

t^ . «j @§ qtbt aud6 eBen Dele m faufen, 

Dele gum S3ra*en. .r > . 

melcpe mtr, menu xvix !ein 35orurtl;etl 

'i)dtten, tmmer 16enul?cn fonnten. 9^etne§ ©aumn)ollfa= 

menol tft ein feljv feine§ Del t)on belitatem (55efd)mad; 

D^apgol, ha^ tm '^^Xuglanb Diel fur btefen ^mcd geBraudjt 

iDtrb, tft aud§ ein reineS ^flanjenbl, a6er Don ctwa§ 

raujigem ©efd^mad. @§ mtrb, tuie folgt 16el;anbelt: 

(Sine ro!^e £artoffel mirb jerfdjuitten unb in hen £cffcl 

gelegt, mo fie mit bem Ocl ^ufammen ermcirmt unb ge; 

fotten mirb, hi^ fie Braun ift, bann nimmt man fie Ijerau^ 

unb Beniit^t ba§ Oel mie ©'d)meinefd;mal^. 3)ie J^artof; 

fel l)at ben ran^igen (5)efd)ma(f l^erau^gejogen. 

jDiinne gleifdjftiidc, mie (^oteletteS unb S^ippenftiide, 

merben mit gefd;lagencm (St unb ©robfrummcn iiBer^io; 

gen unb bann in fiebenbcm ^ctte 5 — 10 aJiinuten long, 

je nad) ber ^leifdjforte, gebratcn» 



41 Frying i?i Fat. 

Cut the fresh suet in pieces, and cover with cold 
water; let it stand a day, changing the water once in 
the time. This takes out the peculiar tallowy taste. 
Now put it in an iron kettle, with a half teacup of 
milk to each pound of suet, and let it cook very 
slowly till the fat is clear, and light brown in color, 
and till the sound of the cooking has ceased. The 
pieces may be loosened from the bottom with a spoon, 
but it is not to be stirred; if it burns the taste is 
ruined. Now let it stand and partly cool, then pour 
off into cups to become cold; it smells as sweet as 
butter and can in many cases be used instead of it. 
The fat left still in the pieces may be j)ressed out for 
less particular uses. 

Any clean fat, even mutton, has its uses in cookery, 
and should be tried out and kept nicely. 
Oils for use in There are oils now sold which but 
frying. for prejudice we would always use. 

Pure cotton seed oil is a fine oil with a delicate flavor; 
rape seed oil, which is used extensively abroad for 
this purpose, is also a pure vegetable oil, but some- 
what rank in flavor. It is treated thus: a raw pota- 
to is cut up and put into the kettle, heating with the 
oil and cooking till it is brown, it is then taken out 
and the oil used like lard. The potato has absorbed 
the rank flavor. 

Thin pieces of meat, like cutlets and chops, are 
coated with beaten ^gg and bread crumbs and cooked 
in boiling fat for 5-10 minutes, according to the kind 
of meat. 

Make some beef fat hot in an iron pan 
or broad kettle. Put the meat into it, 
4 



nen ^43fanne oocr etnem breiten ^e]|cl 
!^eig. Scc^e oa§ ^teifd) Ijinetn uiib brcl^e e§ mit einer in 
ben fetten 3:l§etl gcftedften ©abel ra[c^ um, M§ e§ on 
alien (Settcn eine fdjone branne ^arbe !§at; bringe e^ 
bann in einen l^cigcn 33a(fofen (von ungefdfjr 340® g.), 
roobei man e§ iiber ber ^fanne mit einent ^Ui\d)l)atcn 
ober dn paar (SifenftdBen emporfjdlt. ^et^t fommt ^a§ 
g, . g mit ^egiegen bejeid^netc 35erfal§ren; in fiinf 
ober roeniger 9J^inuten mirft !4)n fmben, ba^ ber 
obere Xl)eil be§ glei[^e§ tvodcn gemorben ift, unb 5)u 
mn^'t mit eincm Soffel baS Ijcif^c %cti Don ber ^^fanne auf 
ben obcren ^fjcil [djiipfen. $;f)ue.bie§ alte paar 3)linu? 
ten, Ij n e ^ a f f er in bie ^fanne ^n geben; in 12 — 15 
SKinnten pro ^funb mirft hn ®ein ^teifc§ gut gefodjt 
finben. (^^ ift gar, menn e§ in ber SJZitte [eine hlanc 
garbe t)erloren '^at unb fc^on rotf; gemorben ift. ^i"^^ 
SSiirjen eine§ fotdjen 33raten§ fotlten nuriSaljunb ^[ef= 
fer beniil^t merben, unb fie miiffen ^ugegeben merben, 
menu \)a§ gleifd; l§alb gar ift; gefc|ie]§t e§ friirjer, fo 
madji bieg ^k gafern l^art. 

^letf A su rtJften, 2Senn jebod^ ha^ 33rennmaterial tljeuer 
ift, ober im ©ommer, menu l^cifjeS 
geuer Idftig mirb, !ann man ooHfommen ge!od}te§ gleifd; 
auc^ burd) S^often erl;alten; hie Unterl^altung be§ geuer§ 
ift bann bie einjige Mn^e. Man fagt un§, ha^ ein 
53eeffteaf gum ^toften f ^oH hid ge[d)nitten fein unb 
iiber tin l^ei^eS ©teins ober .gioljfoljlenfeuer gebradjt 
merben follte; bie§ ift gang gut, aber mcnn e§ fid; fdjuetl 
gebrdunt lf;at, mie eg fod, unb geraenbet unb and; auf ber 
anberen ©eite braun gemorben ift, hUiht e§ in ber 9J^itte 
boc^ nod^ rolj, unb Id^^t man e§ Idnger, fo brennt hie 
5(u|enfeite an. SDie§ ift hie (Srfafjrung, hie hex OJculing 
mac^t, ber nod} jmei ®inge lernen muf^; erften^, ba^^ un- 
mittelbar nad^ bem erften 33raunmerben bag geuer an 
^ii^e nad;laffen ober ha^ g^eifc^ meiter oon iljut cMitfernt 



43 Bahmg Meat. 

and with a fork stuck into tlie/«^ part, turn it rapidly 
till it is on all sides a fine brown, then put it into a hot 
oven (about 340° F.), elevating it above the pan on a 
meat rack, or a few iron rods. Now comes the pro- 
cess called basting; in five minutes or less 
^ ^^^' 1^^ will find that the top of the meat 

has dried, and you must now dip, with a spoon, the 
hot fat from the pan over the top. Do this every few 
minutes adding no loater to the pan; you will find 
your meat well cooked in from 12-15 minutes to the 
pound. It is done when it has lost, in the middle, 
the blue color, and become a fine red. Only salt and 
pepper should be used to season such a roast, and 
must be added when the meat is half done; if earlier, 
it toughens the fibres. 

But when fuel is expensive, or in 

To broil meat. , i i y^ • 

summer when a hot nre is a nuisance, 
the perfectly cooked meat can also be obtained by 
broiling; the management of the fire is the only 
trouble. We are told that a beefsteak for broiling 
should be cut f of an inch thick, and put over a hot 
fire of coal or charcoal; quite right, but when it has 
browned quickly, as it should, and been turned and 
browned on the other side, it yet remains raw in the 
middle and if left longer, the surface burns. This is 
the experience of the novice, who has yet to learn 
two things; first, that immediately after the first 
browning, the fire must decrease in heat, or the meat 
be brought further away, so that the steak may cook 
10-12 minutes without burning — less time will not 
cook it nicely in the middle; and second, that like 
baked meat, the surface must be kept moist with hot 



iDcrben 11111(3, bamit ba§ ©teaf 10 — 12 SOZinutcn lang 
brateii !aitit, oljite anjuh-eniten — in raentger ^cit ruivb eg 
nidjt IjiiBfd) in ber xDZitte gar raevben; nnb ^raeiteng, ba^, 
iDie bei gebacfenem gleifd;, hk ^(ugenfeite mitljeigem ^ett 
3U betrciufeht ift (5fje 3)u ®ein ^Btcat iiber ba§ ^^euer 
bvingft, bcftreidie (raenn e§ nidjt tildjtig xnit %dt unier^ 
n)ad;fcn ift) beibe ©eiten mit gefdjmoljenem ^icrenfett, 
unb raenn e§ fpciter troden ift, ftretdje ein raenig 53utter 
ober Df^inbSfett baranf. ^alte in eincr l^eijjen ^(atte ein 
paar :Oi)ffclt)oK 2Baffer bereit, in raeldjem 'oic au§ bem 
(Btcat an§gefd)nittenen £nodjen ge!oc§t l^oben, unb gib 
©al^ unb lifeffer ^n. SSenn ha§ ©tea! gar ift, lege e§ 
auf bte ^latte unb Tjalte e§ noc§ fiinf 9J^innten tang I;ei§, 
inbem ®u eg non ^cit 3U 3ctt umbret;ft; auf bicfe 3Bei[e 
rairft 3)u ein guteS (BUat foraoljl, u)ie eine gute (Sauce 
befommen. 

SSerwenbuitg Don ^rofeffioneUe ^i)c§e oerraenben ^um 
§otstot)Ien. 9f^i)ften ftctg ^otsfoljlen, unb hie ^ov. 
^iige berfelben finb feljr gro§. 3Sie auf ©eite 21 bes 
fc^rieben, bebarf eg btog eincr einfao^en 3)orrid;tung, bie 
fic^ leidjt an jebem Ofen anbringen Idgt; eine .ganbuotf 
^'o(}[en geniigt nm ein ^funb ©tea! 3U rbften, unb ha§ 
^odjen beg iibrigen 3}^ittaggmal^tg !ann ol^ne ©tiirung 
vox fic^ ge^en. 

©ebrauc^ beg ^r;ermonteterg h cim 

g I e i f d) ! dj e n. 
gteifc^ bet einer Xemperatur Don 150 — 160° g» ^u 
foc^en, ift mit ben gcn)bt;ntic^en iliic^engeratrjcn nidjt 
Uii)t. SSie (oUen rair felbft bet einem Iciest gu regulis 
renben .git^er^euger, mie eine ©ags ober £otjIeni)lflamme, 
raiffen, luenn bicfe iempcratur errcic^t ift? 3)a hie 3Sers 
fafferin feine 3:;f;er mo meter fiir i^iidjcnjiucde fonnte, l^at 
fie fid) felbft eineg nac^ bent ^O^uftcr ber in ben Saborato? 
ricn gcbraud^ten l^crgeftcEt. (Sine 3:f;ermoineterrbf}rc, 
bie 300° (5:elfiug regiftrirte, raurbe einfac^ in eincn ^or! 
geftedt, fo ha^ bag ^btbc^en unten l^eraugfal^ unb mit 



43 Broiling Meat, 

fat. Before your steak is put over (unless it be 
very well streaked with fat), cover both sides with 
melfced suet, and afterwards, as it dries, spread on 
a little butter or beef fat. Have ready in a hot 
platter a few spoonsful of water in which the bones 
cut from the steak have been boiling, also salt and 
pepper. When the steak is done, lay it in the platter 
and keep it hot for five minutes, turning it once in 
the time; thus you will have both good steak and 
good gravy. 

Professional cooks always use charcoal 

Use of charcoal. „ i • , • t • i -, 

for broiling, and its advantages are 
great. As described on page 21 it needs only a sim- 
ple contrivance, easily adjusted to any stove; a hand- 
ful will broil a pound of steak, and the cooking of 
the rest of the dinner can go on without interference. 

USE OF THE THERMOMETER li?^ COOKIITG MEAT. 

To cook meat at a temperature of between 150° 
and 160° F., is no easy matter with the usual kitchen 
appliances. Even over an easily regulated heater, as 
a gas or coal oil flame, how are we to know that tem- 
perature when it is reached ? The writer, knowing 
of no thermometer arranged for use in a kitchen, con- 
structed a simple one after the model of those used in 
laboratories. A thermometer tube registering 300° 
Celsius was simply fastened into a cork, the bulb 
projecting below and protected by a short cylinder of 
wood. This floated on the water and made it easy 
to cook at any given temperature. This thermome- 
ter was also hung in a light wire frame and used for 
testing the heat of an oven. 



Dcr IDarmcbctral^rcr. 'k'^ 

einem furjcn ^oljcrinnber vcvwdjxt max. ^ie§ fd^roamm 
auf bem ^Baffer iinbmad)tee§ leid)t, Bei irgenb einer^ems 
peratuv gn todjcn, S)iefe§ Xljermometer wurbe aud) an 
einem leic^ten ^ra^tgefteE aufgcljcingt unb ^ur Unter^ 
fuc^ung ber ^i^e in einem 33a(fofen uermenbet* 
SDer SKarmeberoal^rer. 

ajlan erfd^rt e§ al§ etraaS ganj ®en)o^nlid)e§, bag bte 
33en)D^ner norblic^er Scinber in auSgebe^ntem Wa^c »on 
ni^t=n)drmeleitenben ©toffen ©eBraud) .madden, wie 5. S. 
3SolIe, um ba§ (gntmei^en ber SScirme aii§ einem @ef d^e, 
in bem c^etodjt rairb, jn t)crl)inbern» ©onberbar ift e§, 
bag n)ir nidjt foldje 33Drrtd}tnngen me^r uermenben, benn 
fie finb fd^on oft kfc^rieben unb itluftrirt raorben; ma^r^ 
fdjeinlic^ ift ber Orunb ber, ha^ man fie nid)t fertig ^um 
33erfaufe Dorfinbet, mit einer DoUftdnbigen Sifte uon ©es 
Braud}§anmeifungen. ®ie ^erfafferin I;at fic^ einen 
Jl'oc^apparat ber %xt angefe.tigt unb i^n beniit^t, unb 
nad) betrddjtlidjen DJlobi^cationen unb (grperimenten i]t 
er fiir fie ju einem fe^r niU^lid)en ^ud)engegenftanb ge. 
raorben. SSiHft ^u gleifd) Bei ridjtiger ^Temperatur 
fodjen, fomadit e§ ^irbiefe 3Sorrid;tungmi)glid), unb ba. 
bei erfpart fie ^ir riel geuerung§materiaL 
Slntoeifung gur SSerfertigung S^eljme eine etraa 2 gug 

eineg 28drmebettja^rer0. nac^ jeber 9f^id)tung Ijin mefs 
fenbe ^ad!ifte unb Ichcdc ben Soben mit einer Sage ^u? 
fammengepregter SSotte in ber ®ide Don 4—6 3oII; fe^e 
mitten in biefe eine anbere ^ifte ober einen (Splinber won 
(gifenble^ unb fiiKe bie 3iuifd)enrdume ^mifdjen beiben 
mit einer 4—6 ^oH biden, bid)t ^ufammengepregten 
2BolIlage au§. 3n ^ie innere ^Ibtr^eilung fel^e ©einen 
^effer mit gleifc^ ober 35egetabilien, hen ®u f^on gum 
@iebepun!t gebradjt l)aft unb ber einen bidjtfc^liegenben 
©edel l^aben mug; iiber Vu\m briide ein hidc§ ^ifjen 
ober eine mottene SDede. ®ann lege bidjtl'djliegenb iiber 
\)a§ ©anje ha\ ®edel ©einer 5^ifte. ©a bie SSdrme bc§ 
SBafferS b«n bereitg begonnenen ^od^projeg ju ©nbe fiil^^ 



44 Tlie Heat Saver. 

THE HEAT SAVER. 

It is a part of common information that the in- 
habitants of northern countries make extensive use 
of non-conducting substances, like wool, for prevent- 
ing the escape of heat from a vessel in which cooking 
is going on. It is strange that we do not make more 
use of such appliances, for they have often been de- 
scribed and illustrated; it is probably because they 
are not found ready-made, and with a complete list 
of directions for use. The writer made and used a 
cooker of this sort, and after considerable modifica- 
tion and experiment it became a very useful thing 
in the kitchen. If you wish to cook meat at the 
proper temperature, this contrivance makes it possi- 
ble to do so, and is also very saving of fuel. 
Directions for Take a packing box measuring, say, 
Saver. ^ ^^6^ each way and cover the bottom 

with a layer of packed wool 4 to 6 inches thick ; set 
into the middle of this another box or a cylinder of 
sheet iron and fill the space between the two with 
a layer of wool, 4 to 6 inches thick and closely 
packed. Into the inner compartment put your ket- 
tle of meat or vegetables already brought to the boil- 
ing point and having a tightly fitting cover, and over 
this press a thick pillow or woolen blanket. Then 
fasten down tight over all, the lid of your box. As 
the heat in the water must finish the cooking already 
begun, its amount must be rightly proportioned to 
the amount of food to be cooked, e. g., two quarts of 
water to 1^ lbs. beef rib, were used. The water was 
brought to the boiling point, the meat placed in it 
and allowed to boil for five minutes, the pot was 



Bct^anblung von jSI^cm ^^Icifd?. 45 

rcn mn^, mug il)r 23etrag bem bcr ju foc^enben (Speife 
angemeffen feiri, 5. 33. 311 l^ ^funb Stinbsrippen raurben 
graei Ouavt 3Ba[fer gebrauc^t. ®a§ Staffer rcurbe big 
^um ©iebepunft er^il^t, bag ^(ei[c^ l^tneingelegt unb 
fiinf 3}Ztnuten lang fodienb eii;a(ten; bann luurbe ber 
^opf bid^t ^ugebecft, in hk Jtifte gefe^t unb brei (Stunben 
haxin gelaffen. 9Zac^ 2lb(auf biefer ^eit wax bag gleifd^ 
aart. 

gleifd^ Sttrt ^u madden. 

5Ieifc9 gart 5u (Sg ift bcfannt, "oa^ man bag gleifd^ 
madden. eine 3^'itlang nac^ bem ©c^tac^ten aufbes 
mal^ren mug, bamit eg gart mirb. ^m 3Binter l^dlt fid; 
dn grogeg ©tiidf ^^inb^ ober ^ammelfleifd; 6 SSod^en 
lang, menu eg an einem trocfenen, fii(;(en $(al^ aufge^ 
l^dngt ift. Xl^atfac^lid; ift bieg hie ^eit, hie in ©nglanb 
einer „§ammelgf coulter" fiir 2Beil;nac^ten jugeftanben 
mirb, unb fie mirb aUe paar 2;age mit ©al^ unb (Sffig 
eingerieben. ^m ©ommer mugt ®u, menu ber SQZe^ger 
nic^t bag gteifd^ fiir ^ic^ aufbemal[)rt, ^u anberen '^liti 
tcln greifen. 

©in gal^eg ^tM gleifd) !ann im ©ommer 3 — 4 '^a^e 
in nidjt ju ftarfem (Sffig liegen unb im 2Binter jraeimal 
fo (ang, mobet man bem ©ffig bie ©eroiirje beigibt, bie 
man gern ^at. Um cin ^dljeg ©tiicf ^art ^u madden, 
giege ein paar SiiffelooK @ffig barauf unb laffe eg 12 — 
24 ©tunben ftel;en. ®iefe SO^eti^obe mirb fcit longer 
^tii \d)on empfoljlen unb mirb big ju gemiffem ®rabe 
aud^ bet ung angcraenbet; bie augldnbifdje ^iid^in oer? 
menbet faure 9JZild; ju bemfelben ^mcd unb fogar mtt 
no(^ befferem ©rfolg, alicin biefe mug jeben ^ag geracd;? 
felt unb am (Snbe ber ^eit gut oom gleifdje abge^ 
fpiilt merben. 

2Bir Unncn nidjt einbringlid; genug empfel;len, bag 
hie ,g)augl;dlterin, bcfonberg menu fie von befdjrdnftcn 
9D^ittcln ift, fid} an biefe 9JCetl;obe genioljuen anb fie gclcs 
gentlic^ in ^Inraenbung bringen foil, ©ie mill fid; nid;t 



45 Treatment of Tough Meat, 

then tightly covered, placed in the box and allowed 
to remain three hours. At the end of that time the 
meat was tender. 

TO MAKE MEAT TENDER. 

To make meat It is well known that meat must be 
kept some time after killing to make it 
tender. In winter, a large piece of beef or mutton 
will keep for six weeks if hung in a dry, cool place. 
Indeed, this is the time allowed in England for the 
Christmas *^ shoulder of mutton," and every few days 
it is rubbed over with salt and vinegar. In summer, 
unless the butcher will keep the meat for you, you 
must resort to other means. 

A tough piece of meat may be laid in not too strong 
vinegar for 3 or 4 days in summer and twice as long in 
winter, adding to the vinegar such spices as you may 
like. To soften a tough steak pour a few spoonfuls 
of vinegar on and let stand for twelve or twenty-four 
hours. This method has been long recommended and 
is to some extent used among us; the foreign cook em- 
ploys sour milk for the same purpose and with even 
greater success, but this must be changed every day and 
at the end of the time well washed from the meat. 

We cannot too strongly urge that the housekeeper, 
especially if she be straightened in means, should be- 
come used to these methods and practice them occa- 
sionally. She does not want to confine herself to soups 
and stews and she cannot buy '* porter-house" steak 
at 20 or 25 cents a pound, but she can buy ''round" 
at half that price, and after a little experiment can 
make it tender for boiling, roasting or broiling by one 
of these methods. In winter, she should buy a supply 
of meat ahead and keep it until it grows tender. 



Hcseptc 3um (JIetfd?!od?cn. 46 

auf ©uppen unb gebdmpftc ^(ei[d;[pei[en be[d;rdnfen unb 
fann fief) tetne„g3orter §ou[c''@teaf§ gu 20 Bi§ 25 (£eutg 
ba§ ^[unb f auf en, aber fie fnnn fic^ ein „9^ounb" ©tea! 
3ur ,^a[fte btefe§ ^reife§ !aufen unb nad; einigen ©rperis 
menten burd^ etne bicfer 3J^etf;oben ebenfo ^axt gum ®te? 
ben, 33raten ober 9^often madden, ^m SSinter fottte fie 
fic^ 3nm 35orau§ einen 3SorratI) ^(etfd; faufen unb e§ auf^ 
ieraaljren, bt§ e§ jart geraorben ift. 



'^^^epte funt ^Uif4jktr4j«n* 



D^ac^bem bie SJJetl^oben be§ gleifdjfoc^enS beljaubett 
unb bie fiir jebe berfelben paffenben Z^cilc nxvaljnt won 
ben finb, bleibt un§ nur noc^ iibrig, eintge praftifd^e 
SBinfe ilber bie ^it^^i^^itung unb ^SeroietfdUigung ber 
©eric^te gu geben. 

^ i n b f r e i f c^. 

33ei gefoc^tem, gebratenem unb geroftetem S^^iubfleifd^ 
]^aben roir Ijinreid^enb x>cxwdlt. @. ^Beitc 40 — 43. 

©ebampfteg gleifd^ ^dnc ^ixt unb SSeife beg gletfc^s 
unb 9?agoutg. fod)en§ l)at fo Dicle ^rbraec^ghtngen; 
"ta ber ®efd;ma(f beg ^leifd^e§ gum SQitrgen oon ^Begeta* 
bilien irgenb meldjer 5(rt benul^t mirb, mie and) bei 3:eig5 
fpetfen, wic Mo\e, ober in ber j^rufte ber glcifd^paftete. 
33etreff§ ber 33ereitung con gebdmpftem g(eifd) f. ©. 40. 

ma ^artoffeln. ®^"^ ¥^^^ ©tunbe efje bag g-rcifd) gar 
mirb, lege gefd^dtte i^artoffefn barauf, 
aKe t)on berfelben ©roge, unb feroiere fie, wcxin fie gar 
gemorben finb, mit bent gteifd; unb ber (Sauce. 

gleijci)pafteten. . ^^"" ^'^^ S^^^f^^ a«^*^ ^^^^¥ tft, ^affe 
bie ©auce 'old fod)cn unh gief^c fie gang 
in ein ^afteten:; ober ^uObing;@efdg. 33ebede eg mit 
eincr gemofjnlidjcn ^aftetenfrufte ober einer aug gerftogc? 
nen Jlartoffeln, iiuh kffe eine l^albe ©tunbe lang badfen. 



EECIPES FOE COOKING MEATS. 



The methods of cooking meat having been treated 
and mention made of the parts adapted to each, 
it remains only to give practical hints as to making 
and varying dishes. 

BEEF. 

Boiled, roast and. broiled beef have been sufficient- 
ly dwelt upon. See pages 40-43. 

stews and Ra- ^0 mode of cooking meat has so 

gouts. many variations; the flavor of the 

meat being used to season vegetables of every sort, 

also doughs, as in dumplings, or in the crust of meat 

pie. For making meat stews see page 40. 

One-half hour before the meat is 
With potatoes. , , , » ., i j j. - 

done lay on top oi it peeled potatoes, 

all of the same size, and serve when done with the 

meat and gravy. 

When the meat is cooked tender, 

thicken the gravy and pour all into a 

pie or pudding dish. ' Cover with a common pie crust 

or one of mashed potatoes, and bake ^ hour. 

You may also mix sliced raw potatoes with the stew, 

in layers. 

Potato Crust. 1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 2 

tablespoons butter, 1 cup of milk, salt. Beat to- 

46 



Htnbfleifcf?. 4? 

^an Unn auc^ rof}c, ^crfd^ntttene j?artoffe(n untcr ba§ 
2)dmpfeflet[ci^ in ein^eliien i^ageit mengcn. 

il a r t f f e H r u ft e. ^iue Xaffe acvftofjene J^artof . 
fern, 1 (St, 2 :i?offeluoa ©utter, eine ^affe mild), ©ol^. 
^ii^re ^ufammen, big atteg glott geraorben, uitb bann 
menge ^tntangttd) ^Diefjt I;inein, urn augraeUen 311 fonncn. 
©oUte -J Sott bicf uitb [0 wcid) fein, rate eg bte 33el;anb= 
lung aurdit, 

9Kit XomatoeS. @t6 ju l^em greifdj, raenn e§ jart ge^ 

(^arabie^apfeln) icorben tft, 1 £)uart ^omatoeg auf 2 
$funb g^reifc^. 35erbt(fe eg mtt ^Re^r unb bdmpfe 5 5mt= 
nuten. 

©ettJiirge fitr gebampfleg ©ebdmpfteg ^hi}d) xvixh auf 
^^^^l*^- uerfcljtebene SSetfe gen)ur3t;3n)te« 

M, (Bal^ unb ^[effer finb jeberjett am ^lal^e. (gin wd 
nig (Sitronenfaft Beim 3(nric^ten gibt if;m einen belifaten 
(53efd)mac!; ober fogar mx (^^BfietDolt (Sfftg !ann uer? 
raenbet tnerben. ^rgenb rcel^e i^rduter, ^in ©tiicf 
gelbe O^ube, eine ^elfe ober ein 33igd)en jtnoblaud; ^ann 
gur 3(braedjg(ung beniil^t wcrben. (Jatfup (Zomatoci 
©auce) ift cbenfadg alg ©er^iirj gut. 

eJepofelteg a^inbfleifd^. (gpiile eg gut ab, gib ^inretcbenb 
(Corned Beef.) ^Q^eg SSaffer ^n unb bringe eg 

langfam ^um ©trubeln. Jlod)e 3—4 ©tunbcn. 

aBei^^e dtiihm ober J^oljl luerben Ijdufig mit gepofeltem 

9?inbf[ei[^ gegefjen. @ie fodten jeboc^ nidjt mit bent 

j^teij'c^, fonbern in einem befonberen Zop^c gefod;t 

luerben. 

atinbgleber ^^"'^ ^^'^ "'^^ ^^^^^^^ tiic^tigen ^Ijiere 
ftammt, ift Df^inbgleber oft ebenfo ^art, rate 
flalbgkber. 

®er5ftet ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^ '^^^^^ 93^etl^Dbe. SSetd^e fie eine 

©tunbe lang in faltem SSaffcr ein, trodne fie 
ob, ^ertfjcile fie in (Sd;nitten unb iaiidjc fie in jerfdjmol^es 
neg 9^inbgfett. dlo]te fie I a n g f a m ([. ©. 42) big fie 
Dollftdnbig gar ift; bann gib ©al^ unb Gutter gu. 



47 Beef. 

gether till smooth, and then work in enough flour so 
that you can roll it out. It should be -J in. thick, 
and as soft as you can handle. 

Add to meat when tender, 1 qt. to- 
matoes to 2 lbs. meat. Thicken with 
flour and stew 5 minutes. 

Stews are variously flavored; onion, 

Flavors for stews, i, t i • i 

salt and pepper, are always in place. 
A little lemon juice added as it is served gives a deli- 
cious flavor, or even a tablespoon of vinegar may be 
used. Any herbs, a piece of carrot, a clove or bit of 
garlic, may be used for variety. Catsup is also good 
as a flavor. 

Corned Beef. Wash it Well, put into plenty of cold 
water and bring slowly to the simmering point. 
Cook 3 to 4 hours. 

Turnips or cabbage are often eaten with corn 
beef. They should not be boiled with the meat but 
in a separate pot. 

If from a good animal, beef liver is 

often as tender as calf's liver. 

This is the best method. Soak an 

hour in cold water, wipe dry, slice and 
dip in melted beef fat. Broil sloivly (see page 42) till 
thoroughly done; then salt and butter. 

When prepared as above, the slices of 

liver may be fried in a pan with a little 
beef fat. This gives an opportunity for more flavors, 
as onion may be fried with it, a little vinegar added to 
the juices that fry out, then thickened and used as 

gravy. 

If liver is not quite tender it can be 
made into a stew, or it may be chopped 



^luffod^cn noil :i\inbf[eifcf?. ^8 

©efcfimort. .J^^^^^J"^^^ ^'' ^^'''' inhcxcikt [inb, 
tonueu bie 2chcx\d)nittcn mit dwa^ diinh^\dt 
in einer ^fanne gcfdjmort toerben. ®icg ^iht ©clegens 
'^cit 3ur ^evroenbung uon mel;r ©eraiirjen, ba mon 3raies 
]6el bamit fdjmoren, ttma§ @fftg ju bem onSbratcnben 
©afte t^un, tljii bann fodjen unb al§ ©auce Derraenben 
fann. 

©ebacfen ^^"" ^^^ ^^^^^ "^*^ 9^"^ S^^'t ift, fann 

man fie bdmpfen, ober fcin jerljacfen, unb mit 
33robh-ume unh @t Denni[d;t ^ (Stunbe bncfen la[[en. 
^tnhi&pr^i ^^"" ^^^ geuerung fcin ©egenftanb fiir 
^ ^- 3)ic^ ift, fannft ®u cin &^inb§(;er5 ^od;en; 
®u rairft einen ganjcn 3:ag baju braud;cn. :^cge e§ in 
falteg SBaffer, brin{3e c^ l^angfam ^um ©trubeht unb 
l^alte eg "oahci. 2Im ndd;ften Xog fannft ^u e§ mit gut= 
geraiiqter 33robfrume fiitten unb | ©tunben Baden 
laffen. 

^ .. ©cbneibe in ©treifen, racidie einen (lalBen 

^ag m ©al^ unb(Vf]ig em, trodne lie ab unb 
fc^more fie in fjci^em ©djroeinefd^malj. Tlan fann fie 
aud^ bdmpfen. 

51 u f f dj e n von 9^ i n b f I e i f d;. 

(A.) ©efoc^teS, ge6adene§ ober geriJfteteS jRinbfletfd^, 
'ba^ laxt nnb gefd^madreid; ift. 

^inb^bratcn jum jroeiten WaU an^uridjten. 
9tinb§braten §um gineiten 90^ad;e bie ©auce l^ei^; lege 

SOZale angerid^tet. ben ^raten Ijinein. 9Zad;bem 

X>u U)n roieber gut gugerid;tot, hcdc feft gu unb bringe 
il)n in ben l;eif^en 33acfDfcn, 10 SO^inuten lang, ober menis 
ger, je nadj ber ©rof^c bco ©tiide^. 

Dbcr fdjneibe in ©tiide unb lege fie in hie Ijci^c ©auce, 
aber b(o6 lang genug, um fie buvdj unb buvd) 3U erroars 
men. 
f^Ieiid)mug. X<a fold^eg %^<^i]<i) nodj voll guten @es 

(Hash) [d;madg ift, fo fann man e^ 3erl)aden unb 
mit ^ — I fooiet ^erljadten ober jerftampften ^tartoffeln, 



48 Recoohing Beef. 

fine, mixed with bread crumbs and egg and baked ^ 
hour. 

If fire is no obiect, you may boil a 

Beef's Heart. <) ^ j j 

beef's heart, it will take all day. Put 

into cold water and bring slowly to the simmering 

point and keep it there. Next day it may be stuffed 

with well seasoned bread crumbs and baked f hour. 

Cut in strips, soak in salt and vine- 
Tripe 

gar I day, wipe dry and fry in hot lard. 

It may also be stewed. 

RECOOKING BEEF. 
f 

(A.) Boiled, baked or broiled beef which i» ten- 
der and full of flavor. 

To serve roast beef a second time. 
Roast beef re- Heat the gravy, put the roast in it. 
served. After trimming it into shape again, 

cover closely and put into a hot oven for ten minutes 
or less according to size of piece. 

Or, cut in slices and lay in hot gravy only long 
enough to heat them through. 

Being full of flavor such meat may 
be chopped and mixed with from ^ to ^ 
as much chopped or mashed potatoes, bread crumbs 
or boiled rice. These mixtures may be warmed as 
hash, or made into cakes or balls to be fried on a grid- 
dle or in boiling fat. 

Mix the chopped meat with the potatoes, bread- 
crumbs or rice as above, add salt and pepper and 
make quite moist with water or soup. Put a good 
piece of butter or of beef fat into a spider, and when 
it is hot, put in the hash. Cover and let it steam, 



2Inffod?cn Don Suppcnflcifd?. tiQ 

33robfrumcn ober ge^odjtem 9^eig ocrmengen. 3)te[e 
ajiifrfjunc^cn !ann man alg g-Ici[d;mu§ (Hash) auftDcirmen, 
ober in ilurfjcn obcr Jllofe geformt in ber ^fanne ober in 
fodjcnbem %cii [d;moren. 

W\\6)t 'tia^ geljadte }Sid\6:) mit ben ^artoffeln, ben 
33rob!rnmen ober bem ^ei§, roie oben, gib (balj unb 
^feficr ba^u unb Befeudjte e§ tiidjtig mit SSaffer ober 
giei[d)briif;e. ;2ege ein guteg ©tiid Sutter ober 9fiinb§= 
fett in eine ^fanne, unb lege bag ^(eifd;mu§ Ijinein, raenn 
e§ Ijeife ift. ®ede e§ ju unb laffe e§ bdmpfen, bann 
nimm ben ^edel ah unb laffe e§ au^en troden raerben, 
n)dl;renb fic^ unten eine braune i^rufte bilbet. £)ber 
riiljre urn, M§ e§ l;eig ift, unbtifi^e eg fofort auf. 

^iei]C9uoie. ^^^^^^^j^^g^ l^rme in fleine Jlud^en, beftreue 
fit mit Md)l unb f^more fie, V\^ fie Ijiibfd) braun finb, 
in dwa^ S^^inb^fett, Dag in V\t ^fanne gctrdufelt roirb. 
Ober iaii6:)t V\t i?li3fe in @i unb ^robfrumen unb fi^more 
in foc^enbem gett. 

(B.) 3luffod^en oon ©uppenfleifc^. 

3)icfeo gleifd), menu e§ auc^ burd^ langeg ^od^en ^art 
gemadjt morben ift, l;at oiel oon feinem ©efdjmad an V\t 
@uppe abgegeben. (5§ l)at jebod^ nid;t im gleid^en 
@rabe feinen ^Otd^rraertl^ oerloren; menu rair eg roieber 
fiir ben @aumen fomol^l mie fiir ben 3D^agen m o !^ 1= 
f d; m e d e n b madden fijnnen, fo merben fie il)m beibe 
il^ren 33eifall augbriiden. 

(Jg ift nid)t gut, bicfeg gleifc^ mit neutralen ^\ib]ia\\c 
jen ju oermengen, roie ^artoffeln unb 33rob; eg bebarf 
eljer ber 3^^^^^^"/ ^^^ ^^'^^^ (Sntjie^ung. ^n jcbem 
galle \)adt erft bag gleifd^ fel;r fein. 
®epreBte§ ©uppen^ 2Siir5e bag jer^adte gleifd; gut mit 
fleifd). (Salg unb ^feffer unb einigen anberen 

^uti^aten, mie ©elleriefal^ ober 9Jlugfatnu^ ober einigen 
tt)ol}lriedjcnben ^!:rdutern. 33efeud;te mit ©uppe ober 
©al^ne, '^adz in ein tiefeg ginngefdjj unb bringe eg auf 



49 Recooking Soiqj Meat. 

then remove cover and let it dry out while a brown 
crust forms on the bottom. Or, stir till hot and 
dish immediately. 

Make not quite as moist as for hash, 

form into little cakes, dust with flour, 

and fry to a nice brown in a little beef dripping on a 

griddle. Or, egg and bread crumb the balls, and fry 

in boiling fat. 

(B.) EECOOKIKG SOUP MEAT. 

This meat, though made tender by long cooking, 
has given much of its flavor to the soup. It has 
not, to the same degree, however, lost its nutritive 
value; if we can make it taste good again, both palate 
and stomach will approve it. 

It will not do to mix this meat with neutral sub- 
stances like potatoes and bread; it needs addition 
rather than subtraction. 

In any case, first chop the meat very fine. 
Pressed soup Season the chopped beef well with 

meat. gait and pepper, and some other addi- 

tion, as celery salt or nutmeg, or some of the sweet 
herbs. Moisten with soup or stock, pack in a square, 
deep tin and place in the oven for a short time. To 
be sliced cold, or warmed as a meat hash to be served 
on toast. 
-, . „ .^ When so good a dish as this can be 

Meat Croquettes. & 

made out of soup meat, it is worth a 
little trouble. 

Ingredients. 2 cups of the chopped beef, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 egg, -J a lemon or 
1 tablespoon vinegar, a few gratings of nutmeg and 
Y cup of stock or milk. 
6 



Kalbftctfcf?. 50 

cine furje ^cit in ben 33acfofen. 9JZu§ fait in (Sc^nttten 
^evlegt ober raarm ai§ g(eifd)mug auf 3:oaft aufgetifd)t 
raerben. 

mdmmtmn ^L"" '^" ^"^ ^"^^'^ ©eric^t, roie bie[e§, 
" '^ ^ * au§ (i^uppenfletfd) gemadjt raerben fnnn, 
fo ift c§ einiger 3)^uf)e raoljl roert^. 

^ngrebien^ien: 2 ^affen con hem ge^cften ^(ei[c§, 
cin (Sfetoffelooa Sutter, ein ef^IoffelDoa mdjl, 1 ©t, 
eine I;atbe (Sitrone ober ein (^^loffctuotl (Jffig, etraa^ ges 
riebene SJ^u^fatnuf^ unb eine ^Ibe ^af[e ©al^ne ober 
mild). 

2a\\c bag 3JieI)l in ber Sutter fodjen unb gibbie@a^ne 
ober Tlild) ^u nebft ben ©eraiir^cn, fobann bag Otinb^ 
fteifd^, unb laffe es unter forttt)dI)renbcntUmriifjrcn fodjen 
bi§ bie 9}^a[[e Don ben (Seitenioanben beg ilefjelg abftafft. 
Saffe fie fait raerben, forme fie in fleine, eirunbe illofe, 
laffe fie dwa§ trodncn, roUe fie in ^erfdjlagcnem (5i unb 
Srobfrumen unb fdjmore fie in ficbenbein ^ett. 

3ur 3lbn)ed)glung — gib ^ fo oicl ^erljadtcg cingefalgeneg 
ober frifc^eg (S(^n)einefleif(| ^u, wic ®u gleifd) ^aft. 

£albf leifd;. 

j^iefeg ^leifc^ nimmt leid;t anbere ©eraiirje an unb 
ttJtrb Don ^od}en ju oerfeinerten ©erid^ten atler ^rt be? 
nii^t. (S§ l§at fein j^ctt unb tcirb bal}er beim J^od^cn 
leid^t troden; eine3ugabe Don ©djiDeineflcifc^ fijrbert ))ac 
]^er jeberjeit ben @efd}mad. (Jg mug ftctg tiid)tig burc^; 
gefoc^t, nie l)albrol^ fein. 

© rhsb t liefer fann ein aug ber Senbe, Sruft 

ober @d)ultcr gefd;nitteneg ©tiid fcin, ober 
aud^ ein 9^ippenftiid. Srate eg, mie Oiinbfleifc^ (f. (Beite 
35) inbem ®u baju jroeimal fooiel ^eit geftattcft ober 
1^ — 2 ©tunben fiir jebeg ©ti'id unter 4 ^funb. 
©eroftete ^alb§. (Jotclctteg, ©c^nitten ober ©teafg 
fd)Hitten. rDcrben toie D^inbfleifd) gcroftet, jeboc^ 
langfamer unb jraeimal folang, and) miiffen fie mit ^nt-. 
ter beftrid)en unb mit Wet)i beftreut roerben, um ju oer; 



50 Veal 

Cook the flour in the butter and add the stock or 
milk and seasoning, then the beef, and cook, stirring 
all the time till the mass cleaves from the side of the 
kettle. Let it get cold, then make into little egg 
shaped balls, let them dry a little, roll in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

To vary — add ^ as much chopped salt or fresh pork 
as you have meat. 

VEAL. 

This meat takes other flavors well and is used by 

cooks for all manner of fancy dishes. It is lacking 

in fat and for that reason easily dries in cooking ; an 

addition of pork is always an advantage to the taste. 

It must be always well cooked, never rare. 

This may be a piece cut from loin. 
Roast Veal. , , i i ^ -i • 

breast or shoulder, or a rib piece. 

Koast like beef (see page 35), allowing twice as long, 

or 1-^-2 hours, for any piece under 4 lbs. 

Broiled veal Outlets, chops and steaks are broiled 

chops. like beef, but slower and twice as long 

and must be buttered and floured to prevent drying. 

Should be served with a tomato or onion sauce. 

Cook like beef stew, see page 46. 

Veal stew. ^^ , • i • . i 

It may be varied m the same way, 

and is generally more highly seasoned. Especially 
good as pot-pie. Salt pork should be added to it. 
Liver, Sweet- Yesil Mver, sweetbreads and heart are 
Heart. all tender and excellent, but high priced, 

especially the sweetbreads. Liver and heart are pre- 
pared like the same parts in beef (see page 47), but the 
heart cooks tender in two hours. This latter is an ex- 



^ammeU unb S^ammftetfc^. 5^ 

^inbern, bajj fie trocfen roerben. ©ollten mit ^arabieg= 
apfcl. ober ^raiebelfauee aufgetifd;t raerben. 

©ebampfteg MbfleifA, „ ^^^l ^^ ^^^ gebdmpfteS ^mb= 
' ' ^ fleifdj, f. ®. 46. 
mwe^^lnnQ fann auf bicfelbe 2Beife er^ielt loerben 
unb gctDoljiilid; iDirb e§ and; ftdr!er geraiir^t. 33c[onberg 
gut alg Xopfpaftete. ©efaljeneg ©c^raeinefleifc^ foate 
jugegcben tuerben. 

Seber, Si'alh^hvo^djen talb^Ieber, ^alh^hvo§d)en unb 
unb C)er3. ^eq finb aUe [cl;r jart, aber tljeuer, 

befonbcrg bte 33ro§c^en. Seber unb ^cr^ raerben gerabe fo 
gubereitet, n){e btefelben ^Ijdle t)om 9ttnb ([. (g. 47), ba§ 
^era fodjt fid; aber injraeii^tunben raetc^. 2)a^felbe {ft 
em augge^eic^neteS ®erid;t; weid)e e§ nid;t cin — fiiac e§ 
mtt gut burdjnjitqter ©robfrume unb begicfje e^ gut. 

^ammelc unb Sammfteifd). 
|ammer= unb T)te 33efc^affenljeit be§ JjammelfteifcbeS 
Sammfleiid). .ft ^^ t)cvfc^ieben, bafe ba§ @ertd;t nad; bcm 
^odjcn oft thittdufd;ung oerurfadjt. 2)er einfluj} langer 
3rufben)a(;rung ober tangen „^ufr;dngen§" auf bagfetbe 
tft fogar nod; n)or;lt(;dtiger, atg betm 'O^inbfleifd^. 
^ammelfett. , '^P « m nt e I f et t J)^and;e £i)d,e fc^net. 
ben oom ^ammelfteif^ jebe§ 33i§d;en ^ett 
roeg, ^a-^fetbe ift oodfommen ^utrctglic^, befommt je? 
bo(| suraeilcn einen 33etgefd;mad, raenn eS mtt f^aiit ober 
tgoaren be§ X^tereg in 33eril^rung gefommen ift; ba^er 
ftammt ha§ 35orurt(;eit. @c^abe hie mt^enfettc be§ 
g^reifd;e§ gut ab, rei^e hie trodene ^}aut ah unb fd;netbe 
bie bunflen (gnben raeg. 

Stiicfesum^raten. ,. f«"5 «"^f alS beim^inbfretfd) 
jmb and; nod; anbere, atg diippcn-^ 
ftiide jum 33raten gut; bie Senbe unb bte ©c^enfel finb 
W bfonomifdjften, ,^undd;ft fommt bie^c^utter, bann bie 
^eule. 53rate me Diinbflcifd;, f. ©. 35. 

_ SSenn ha^ gdcifd; nic^t oon erfter Oualitdt ift, hxate e§ 
nid^t, fonbern fod;e e§. 3)ie ^eule rairb am (;dufigften 
fitr biefe ^mede beniit^t. 



51 Mutton and Lamb. 

cellent dish, do not soak it — stuff with well seasoned 
bread crumbs and bake, basting well. 

MUTTON^ AND LAMB. 

Mutton and The quality of mutton is so varying 

Lamb. that when cooked the dish is often a dis- 

appointment. The influence of long keeping or 
" hanging" upon it is even more beneficial than upon 

beef. 

Fat of Mutton. Some cooks trim 
away every bit of fat from mutton. It 
is perfectly wholesome, but sometimes gets a taste 
from coming in contact with the hide or hair of the 
animal; hence the prejudice. Scrape the outside of 
the meat well, pulling off the dried skin and cutting 
away the dark ends. 

Unlike beef, other pieces besides the 

Pieces to roast. ., , „ . . ,11- t 

rib are good for roasting; the loin and 
haunch are most economical, the shoulder next, the 
leg next. Eoast like beef, see page 35. 

Unless the meat is first class, do not roast, but boil 
it. The leg is oftenest used for this purpose. 

Simmer about 12 minutes to the 

To boil mutton. t - 1 x • xi i i x £ 

pound ; that is the rule, but very ire- 
quently the meat when it comes on the table, will 
be tough, owing entirely to the difference in the qual- 
ity of the meat. Such meat must be boiled twice as 
long, or is better cooked in a stew. 

The chop is oftenest broiled and is 

Mutton chops. „ ,., n > '>. • xt^-i i 

a famous dish. Out f m. thick, and 
broil rare like beef. 

Chops and cutlets are excellent fried in fat. See 
page 40. 



5cf?tt)Ctnefleifcf?. 52 

^ammelfleif^ Su foc^en. . ®^«\ore circa 12 minutcn fur 
jebeg 5p^u„^. bag ift bie ^egel, 
feljr Ijtiufig aber wixh ha§ ^leifd), Tceim eg auf ben ^ifc^ 
fommt, 3ar;e [ein, b(o§ raeil eben bag ^reifc^ in [einer 
Oualitat uerfc^ieben ift. ©oldjcg gletfc^ mii§ aiDeimar 
gefodjt roerben, ober tft beffer, roenn eg gebdmpft luirb. 

^ammeBfc^nitten. %\^^^'''^[' !"^^*^ «^« Ijiiiifigften 
gcro|tct iinb t|t ein famofcg ©eridjt 
©c^neibe fie f 3oII bid unb rofte fie Ijalbrol^, trie dUnh- 
fleifd;, _ 

©djititten unb (^ottcletteg roerben augge^eid^net, raenn 
fie in ^ett gefc^mort iDcrben. ©. ©. 40. 

©ebampfte^ |,ammelfleifd,. ?^^^ ^^^ ^^^ 5f onomif^fte 
^ ' ^ unb DieUcidjt auc^ ^ufrieben? 

ftellenbfte Don alien ,5)t^ntmelf(eifd;gericl^ten. ®ie unters 
georbnetereu XljeiU, raie ber ^alg, finb fiir bicfcn 3^e<^ 
ebenfo gut. 33ereite fie gerabe fo, raie gebdmpfteg ^tinb- 
f(cifd;. 

@utcg ©dmpffleifdj fann aug ®d;afgnieren berettet 
raerben. 

S^afJpnBen. ®'t migen angcfii^vt roerben, n,dt 
^ ' " " man jie ^uraeilen racgrairft, ober fel^r 

biHig oerfauft. ^einige fie gut unb fdjmore fie 1| 

©tunben mit etroag ©djiueinefleifd) unb 3^tcbeln. @i6 

ju ber @auce einen (VH^offcl voU feffig. 

3HIe biefe O^ejepte fiir ^ammelf(eifdj geltcn aud; fiir bag 

^od^en Don Sammfieifd;; man bebenfe jebod), ba§ I'amm; 

fleifd^, mie Jlatbfieifd;, griinblid) gefod;t roerben mu§. 

© d) m e t n e f I e i f d;. 
©djraeinefteifd; braudjt Hid;t aufbemaf;rt ju roerben, 
bamiteg ^^art roirb; baburd} empfieljlt eg fi c^ fel;r fiir 'oic 
.gaugljalterin. (Sg fod;t fid; and) lcid)t, unb roir fi3nnen 
einige ber 5)orfid)tgmafn*egeIn, hk roir beim 9tinbficifc^ 
gebraud)en, bci iljm bcifeite fel^en. !3)er magcre ^r;ci( 
Don frifd)em @djroeineficif(^ roirb jebod^ beim £od;cn Icidjt 
troden. 



52 Porh. 

Mutton stew. This is the most economical and per- 

haps the most satisfactory of all mutton dishes. The 
inferior parts, as the neck, are as good as any for this 
purpose. Proceed exactly as with beef stew. 
A good stew is made from sheep's kidneys. 

These may be mentioned because 

Sheep tongues. i.- i.i ii 

sometmies thrown away or sold very 
cheap. Clean well, and simmer 1^ hours, with a 
little pork and onion. Add to the gravy 1 table- 
spoon of vinegar. 

All these recipes for mutton apply to the cooking 
of lamb ; remembering however, that lamb, like veal, 
must be thoroughly cooked. 

PORK. 

Pork does not need to be kept in order to be ten- 
der, that is one of its great recommendations to the 
housekeeper. It is also easily cooked and we may 
lay aside some of the precautions we use regarding 
beef: The lean of fresh pork however, is apt to dry 
in cooking. 

The leg, the loin and the chine are 

Roasting- pieces. t , . . m - 1 • i 

good roastmg pieces as well as the rib. 
Pork is so rich in flavor that it seasons finely a bread 
crumb dressing, to which add a little sage and vin- 
egar or chopped pickles. Bake separately, and lay 
around it when served. Or better, though more 
trouble, make holes in the roast and force the stuff- 
ing in. 

Put directly into a hot oven in a pan containing 
some hot fat, and baste very frequently till done. 
Allow at least 20 minutes to the pound. 



5d?tnfcrt. 53 

©tiide sum S3raten. ^ ^^' /t"^V ^^' ^'''^' ""^ ^«^ 
Jlveu5 fmb e6en[on)of)l gute ©tucfe 
gum 33raten, rcte bie ^ippen. ®ag ©djraeinefleifd; tft 
oon fo gutem @e[d;maif, bag eg etne Um^imung »on 
S3robfnimefein buri^raiivjt, rvo^n manned; etraag ©al6ei 
unb (5|fig obev aev^acftc, eingemad;te ©urfen gebcn fann. 
53a(fe [ie abgefonbcrt unb lege fie urn baffclbe beim 5(n; 
ric^ten. Ober beffer, obfdjon etraa^ mur;[amer, madje 
Soccer in ba^ ^^[eifd) unb preffe ha^^ ^m\d in bicfelben 
i)inein. 

fringe e'3 bireft in eincn ^eigcn 33adofen in einer 
g^fanne mit Ijcifeem ^ett unb Begiefee eg f(ei§ig, Ing eg gar 
i|t. 9taume menigfteng 20 9JZinuten per ^sfnnb ein. 

©teafg unb ©d^nitten. ®!'^^^^ ^^"^ ©dinitten merben 
geroftet, aUem "iik 5hi|;^en[eite muj^' 
gut mit 33utter obcr ^inbgfett befeud^tet fein, [onft 
roerben fie troden unb gefd^madtog. 

©ebampfteg ©d^treinefleifc^. .^J^^r'^ ©d^meinefleifc^ 
' ' ^ rcirb felten gefotten unb tft 
auc^ jum ©timpfcn gu fett; jebod) bag g^Zagere fann mie 
gebdmpfteg ^inbfleifd; auggemcif^lt unb gefod)t roerben. 
(Sg gibt aud^ eine auggejei^nete £opf. ober ^leif^paftete. 
©. @. 46. 

©djmeineleber. a. ^slr.'^'^'^'l'^I' .\''^. .^.'!'^^' ""'' 
Dtmbgleber, unb i|t babei biUiqer. ©, 

©. 47- 

©c^n,einefIeifc^=aBurft. , f "^^1*^" f^'' 1[^ ^ll^r cin. 
fad), ©d^more fie m ber (^d}mor; 
pfanne auf bem Ofcn braun, ober beffer, fe^e bie ^sfanne 
in einen ^eigen 33adofen, bannroirft^u bag Uml;erfprit^en 
beg getteg oermeiben. 

©d^infen, eingefalgeneg ©d^raetnefleifc^ 

unb © p e d. 

©d^infen fann man auf jebe SKeife mie frifd^eg 

©d^raeinefleifd) fod;cn. 9}can fann if;n in ^ 3o(I hide 

©c^nitten fdjueiben, ober in nod) biinnere unh ^i^ leidjt in 



63 Ham. 

steaks and chops. Steaks and chops are broiled, but the 
surface must be kept well moistened with butter or 
beef fat, or they will be dry and tasteless. 

Fresh pork is seldom boiled and it is 
tew o por . ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^ stew, though the lean may 

be selected and cooked like beef stew. It makes also 
an excellent potpie, or meat pie. See page 46. 

Pig's liver is good cooked like beef's 
\g s iver. liyer, and is cheaper. See page 47. 

The cooking of this is very simple. 

Pork Sausage, ^ . . 

hvj brown m a irymg pan on the 
stove, or better, set the pan in a hot oven, you will 
then avoid the sputtering of the fat. 

HAM, SALT PORK AND BACON. 

Ham may be cooked in any way in which fresh 
pork is cooked. It may be cut in -J- in. slices, or 
thinner, and broiled or fried lightly in a pan. If 
long cooked it becomes tough and dry. If too salt 
for this, it may be soaked a half hour in warm 
water. 

A large piece of ham is best boiled. If very salt, 
soak it in cold water for 24 hours, then put into 
cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and simmer half 
a day if the ham is of good size. A ham may also be 
baked. 

Dishes from cold So highly flavored a meat can be 
ham. used in numberless ways, especially 

combined with vegetables and bread. 

Chop -J lb. fine, season with mus- 

Sandwiches. , , i -, , i i 

tard, pepper and 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 



(Stngefal^cnes $d?iDcmcfIeifd? unb $pcc!. 5^ 

einer ^fanne roften obcr [djmoreit. $Benn er gu long 
fodjt, tuirb er ^dlje unb trocfen. ^]t er 511 bteiem 3n)e(fe 
gu fatjig, fo ^ann man {(;n eine l^albe ©tunbe in raarmem 
3Sa[[cr einroeic^en. 

(&in grofeeg ©tiid (S^infen roirb am Beften gecod^t 
3ft er fef)r far^ig, fo raetdje iljn 24 ©tunben lang in 
Staffer etn, fe^e if)n hann in faitc^ Staffer, (affe biefeS 
rangfam [ieben unb to^e gelinbe etnen l^alben 3:ag lang, 
menn ber ©(i)infen von tii^tiger ©ro^e i]t, (^in (B<^inte\\ 
fann and) gcbaden tuerben. 

®ed4te bon tattem ©cS,infen. .,<^"" f" wo^IfcfimerfenbeS 

^•leifcp rann man auf ^al)U 
lofe S^eifcn cerraenben, kfonberS in ber ^erbinbung mtt 
3Segeta6ilien unb 33rob. 

^eleate «robe S^vljade ein IjalU^ ^funb fein, miirse 

^ * e§ mit ©enf, ^feffer unb einem (Sfeloffels 

oofl" @fftg. ©treid)e e§ 3tDii'd)en gtpei 33ntter6rob5 
fc^nitten. 

©rfiinfenfuAen ^"""^ ^^"^ ^"^'^"^ feinge^rften, gefod^. 

isjc^mtentuc^en. ^^^ ©djinfen, 2 Xaffen uoa 33robfrumen, 

2 (Sier, ^feffer unb ©0(5 unb SO^ild) genug, um tiid^tigju 
burdjfeudjten. 

31 n m e n b u n g. 1) ©c^more erft in einer breiten Scarfs 
pfanne Heine 2o\]d voii unb bre^e fie um, rcie ^fann^ 
fud^en. 

2) 35erroenbe ftatt ^robfrumen ^erftogene ilartoffeln 
unb fd^more, mie oben. 

re x^ o 3) 9^imm eine von hen beiben obigen 

uroque e . gjjffcf^yngen, t)ertt)enbe jebod) menig ober gar 
feineSD^ilc^, forme fie in Heine J^lofcunb fd^more fie, nac^s 
bent !l)u fie in(Siern unb 53rob!rumen gerollt I;aft, in fies 
benbem gett. 

. 4) Wit (^i. ©ringe eine biefer 9}^ifd^ungen 

Jjm^Si. .^ ^jj^ 33adgefa^; glatte bie Oberflcic^e unb 
mad^e mit bem ©djopftI)eil eincg :2offe(§ ftcine jr)i)(;tun; 
gen Ijinein. ©ct^e fie in tfcn £)fen, bi^ fie fjeig gcmorben 



54 Salt Porh and Bacon. 

Ham cakes. Take 1 cup finely chopped boiled 

ham, 2 cups of breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, pepper and salt, 
and enough milk to make quite moist. 

To use. 1st. Fry on a griddle in small spoonfuls, 
and turn as pancakes. 

2d. Use mashed potatoes instead of breadcrumbs, 
and fry as above. 

3d. Take either of the above mix- 
tures, using, however, little or no milk, 
make into little balls and after rolling in egg and bread- 
crumbs, fry in boiling fat. 

4th. With eggs. Put either of these 
mixtures into a baking dish; smooth the 
surface and make little hollows in it with the bowl of 
a spoon. Put in the oven till hot, then break an Qgg 
into each depression, and return to the oven till the 
eggs are set. 
Broiled Salt Pork After slicing thin, freshen salt pork 

and Bacon \,j laying in cold water over night or -J 
hour in warm water. Broil till transparent and a 
delicate brown in color. Broil bacon without freshen- 
ing. 

Less delicate than broiled, but much 

more economical, because saving the 

fat. Fry only till transparent. Salt pork must be 

first freshened. To make milk gravy of the fat, see 

"meat and vegetable sauces," page 73. 

Both salt pork and bacon are boiled with vegeta- 
bles. 

Bacon or Pork and Cahhage. This is a favorite 
mixture, and if the cabbage is only boiled half an 
hour and not in the same pot with the pork, it is not 



Sc^iDcincfleifc^. 55 

{ft, 5erneppere bann in jebe biefer 33crtie[ungen etn C5t 
unb bring' eg raieber in ben 0[en, bi^ bie @ier fid^ anges 
fe^t tjabeu. 

©erafteteg, gefaljetteg ©d^metne:^ 9^ad;bem ^u e§ in biinne 
fleifrf) unb ©ped. (Sd^nitten ^ertljeitt ^ft, 

frtfd^e bo§ gefa(5ene ©d)it)eineflei[(i) anf, inbent ^u e§ 
liber 9^adjt in falter, ober etne Ijaihc ©tnnbe in n)armc§ 
2Ba[fer legft. dio\h, hi^ fie burdjfd^einenb raerben nnb 
eine fc^i3ne, braune garbe angenommen l^aben. (Sped 
ri)fte oI;ne 5(uffrifd)ung. 

fSi ifh 3Seniger belif ot al§ geroftet, aber »iel bta 

lAjelct)mor . i^oj^^j^e^^^ ^^n ^^^j^ ba^g-ett fpart. ©i^more 
b(o§ bi§ e§ burc^fdjeinenb geraorben. ©efaljeneg ©d^raeis 
nefleifd) nui^ erft aufgefrif(^t raerben. Urn 9JliId)fauce 
mit bem g-ette jn maiden, f. gleifd); unb ^Segetabiliens 
(Bauccn, (S. Vs. 

(Singefal^eneg ©c^raeineffeifd^ foraol^I, raie (Sped raer^ 
ben mit 5^egetabilien gefodjt. 

(B])ed ober (Sc^roeinefleifc^ mit ^d!^I. 
^ieg ift eine hdkhte a}?ifd)ung, unb menu bcr ^otjl nur 
eine f)albe (Stunbe unb nid;t in bemfelben ^opfe mit bem 
(Sd;roeinef(ei[c^ gefod;t mirb, ift e§ fein unuerbaulidieS 
©eridjt. fringe 'oa^ (Sd^raeincfteifd) in talU^ 3Saffer 
unb laffe e§ langfam fod^en unb -^ — 2 (Stunben Ieid)t fies 
ben, je nadg ber @roge be§ (Stiideg. 
©c^tueinefleifd) unb ^o^e ein Ouart biirre ©rbfen ge^ 
©rbfeti. ma§ ben ^Inroeifungen fiir (Srbfens 

fuppe (Seite 111. £o(^e (gc^meinefleifd) radl^renb ber Ict^s 
ten Ijalben (Stunbe mit ben (Irbfen ober hade eg nac^bem 
e§ mb gar gefoc^t, mie (Sd)roeinef(eif(^ unb 23oI)nen. 
6d)h)einefleifcl^ unb ^0(^e cin Ouart So^nen nad) ^tn? 
S3o^nen. meifung fiir ©uppe (Seite 1 1*7. ^xixlje 

ein ^funb gefaljene (Spedfeite ah, tl^eile bie .gaut in 
Ouabrate, taud^e fie \)alh in hie SSol^nen ein unb laffe 2 
(Stnnben baden, big fie l^iibfd) braun gemorbcn \}t. 
(Sdiroeinefleifd) unb 3^i*[<i)"^i^e ein 3)nl^cnb ^artoffeln 
^artoffeln. biinn, ebenfo J ^funb fetteg, gefalje;* 



55 Fresh Fish. 

an indigestible dish. Put the pork into cold water, 
bring slowly to a boil and simmer from -J to 2 hours, 
according to size of piece. 

Cook 1 qt. dried peas according to 

Pork and Peas. -,• ,• / -, -, ^ ti -i 

directions for pea soup, page 117. Boil 
pork with the peas during the last hour, or after 
parboiling, bake like pork and beans. 

Cook 1 qt. beans according to soup 

Pork and Beans. . -, -, ^ t> i -i -. n i- • i 

recipe, page 117. Parboil 1 lb. salt side 
pork, score the skin in squares, half bury in the beans 
and bake 2 hours, or till a nice brown. 
Pork and Pota- Slice a dozen potatoes thin, also \ lb. 
toes. fat salt pork, put into a pudding dish 

in alternate layers, seasoning with salt and pepper 
(only a little of the former). Bake, covered, -J hour, 
uncover and brown. 

Fruits seasoned with meat iuices and 

Pork and Apples. „ ,•,■,<..,, , 

lats, instead oi with sugar, are not 
enough known among us. 

Slice sour apples round in slices ^ in. thick with- 
out peeling, and fry with strips of pork or bacon. 
Serve together. 

FRESH FISH. 

The varieties of fresh fish are numberless, and to 
cook and serve them in perfection requires careful 
study from the cook. The subject must here be 
treated very briefly. 

Fresh fish may be cooked in any of the ways appli- 
cable to meat ; the length of time being much shorter, 
and care being required on account of the delicacy of 
the fibre. This makes broiling somewhat difficult. 



ne§ ©d;tt)einef(et[(^, lege fie in n6tt)ed)fe(nbcn Sageit in 
ein ^ubbinggefdg, raiir^e mit ©al^ unb ^[effev (dou eri 
fterem nur raenig). ^acfe ^ugeberft ^ ©tunbe, becfebann 
auf unb brdune e§. 

©c^njeinepeifc^ mit Obft mit ^lei[rf)faft unb gett, ftatl 
^le^feln. jj|{t ^uder burrfimiiqt, ift bei un§noc^ 

nid^t genug befannt. 

^erfdjueibe faure 5(epfel runb in ©d^eiben von ^ ^oU 
®icfe, ol;ne fie ju fc^dten unb fc^more fie mit @tvei[en 
@d)meineftei|c^ ober @]jecf. ©eruire 33eibe§ jufammen* 

grifd;e g i f ^ e. 

jDie ©orten frifd^er gifc^e finb ^aljUoS, unb um fie gu 
fod^en unb in rollfommencr ^ii^c^'^i^iit^^ au[3uti|d)en, be? 
barf e§ auf (Bciie be§ ^od)§ eineg forgfdttigen @tubium§. 
.gier mu§ ber ©egenftanb feljt fur^ abgemadjt merben. 

grifc^e gifd;e fann man auf trgenb eine auf gfeifd) ans 
menbbare SSeife fod;en; bie ^^ttbauer ift jebod) oiel fiirs 
^er, unb e§ bebarf megen bcr ^artl^eit ber gafern einiger 
©orgfalt. ^ie§ mac^t ha§ dib\hn dwa^ fd^mierig. 
^leine gifc^e finb Dielleic^t am beften, roenn man fie in 
(Jier unb 33robfrumen ian^i unb in !§eif^em gettefc^mort. 
CK*-A Ku s ^iefe§ @ertdit Derbient befonbcre @rs 

i^^^^"^^^^^^"^' mdr^nung megen feiner 33iaigfcit unb fei= 
ne§ ^Bo^lgefc^madg. ^-g fann mit trgenb einem frifc^en 
gifc^e bereitet merben. 

giiHe ein ^ubbing;@efdg mit bem in ©tiidte jerfi^nit; 
tenen gifd), roiirje jebe :^age mit ©al^ unb ^feffer unb 
ein menig 3lieren[ett ober fettem ©dimeinefieifd); mad^e 
bariiber etne ^artoffelfrufte wic fiir eine gleifc^paftete 
(f. ©. 46) ober eine ©obajmiebadi^rufte, unb laffe e§ 
baden. feroblfrumen ober ^erfdinittene ^'artoffeln Um 
nen mit bem gifc^ oermengt, unb au^erbem fann an^ 
nod) me^r ©emiirj oerraenbct merben. 

^tidi'(Su»i)en ^^'^^"^^ ^'^^"^^^ ^''""^" ""^^ .^" ©uppen 

" ' -' +'+' ♦ oerroenbet merben, unb bie bittigeren ©or^ 

ten foUte man meljr fiir biefen ^mcd ocrroenben. 



56 Salt Fish, 

Small fish are perhaps best egged and bread crumbed 
and fried in hot fat. 

This dish deserves especial mention 

Fish Chowder. , <• -i i -i in 

because of its cheapness and good fla- 
vor. It may be made of any fresh fish. 

Fill a pudding dish with the fish cut in pieces, 
seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and bits 
of suet or fat pork ; put over it a potato crust as for 
meat pie ( see page 46 ), or a soda biscuit crust, and 
bake. Bread crumbs or sliced potatoes may be mixed 
with the fish, and more seasoning used. 

Fresh fish can also be made into 
oups. soups, and the cheaper kinds should be 

more used for this purpose. 

Cook 1 tablespoon of flour in 1 table- 
o"P- spoon of butter. Add 1^ qts. milk, or 
milk and water, and when it boils stir in 1 teacup of 
cold boiled codfish that has been freed from skin and 
bones and then chopped fine or rubbed through a 
sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Bullhead or Cat- ^^ excellent soup Can be made of 
fish Soup. this cheap fish. 

Clean and cut up 2 or 3 lbs. and boil an hour in 2 
qts. water with an onion and a piece of celery or any 
herbs (it must be well seasoned). Then add 1 cup 
of milk and a piece of butter or beef fat, or a piece 
of salt pork cut in bits may be boiled with the fish. 

SALT FISH. 

Salt Cod. This is one of the cheap foods that 

seems to be thoroughly appreciated among us, and 
good ways of cooking it are generally understood. 



5al3f{f(f?e. 57 

^^ ^zi:^ r- c^ ilodie eincn (g§r6ffer sott 30^cM in ei; 

Sto#,«=®up^e. „^,„ |^,.^.j^j 00(1 fflutfev. @i6 li 

Ouart Wil^ obcr 3}iild^ unb 3Ba[fer gu unb ritl^re, tDeim 
e§ fod)t, eine2:^eetaffe DoU talten, gefoc^ten ©tocffifd^ ein, 
ber Don S^awt unb @vaten Beh'eit unb bann fein jerl^adft 
ober burd^ tin ©ieb getrteben loorben ift. @i6 nac^ @es 
[d)ma(f ©alg unb ^[ef[er ju. 

^aulbarjc^( Bullhead) ober (Sine auSgegeid^nete ®uppe 
Catfisli-(5uppe. f ann mtt btefem biaigen ^ifc^e 

Bereitet n)erben. 

9ftetntge unb fd^netbe 2 — S.^funb auf unb fod^e eine 
(Stunbe lang tn 2 Ouart 2Ba[fer mit einer ^n^iebel unb 
etnem ©tiicf (Setlerie ober irgenb loelc^en jlrdutern (mug 
tud)ttg gerourjt fcin). @i6 bann eine %a\\t Wild) unb 
ein @tii(l ©utter ober D^linb^fett gu, ober tamx auc^ ein 
<Stiidf gefaljeneS ©d^raeinefteifdj, in !leine ©tiidc^en jers 
fd^nitten, mit "^tm gi[c§ gefodjt merben* 
© a 1[ 5 f i ) (^ e. 

^. : . r-L ^nrji %\t^ ift ciuc ber Billigften 

gmgetaljener ©todftld,. g^^j^^^^ ^l^ ^^i ^„g ootltommen 

anerfannt rairb, unb gute 5(rt unb SSeifen, i!§n ju fod;en, 
merben allgemein oerftanben. 

©rrnug aufge[ri[c^t merben, tnbem man \\)\\ iiber 9'Zad^t 
xxi SBaffer (egt; fringe \\)\\ in !alte§ SSaffer unb laffe \\)Xi 
aHmdfjlid^ fieben; fe^e ben ^effet meg, mo er fid) eine 
\)QXht ©tunbe lang marm Ijdlt, nimm' "i^xt ©tiidd^en l^ers 
^\\% unb ric^te fie mit 9J?ild);©auce an. 

..^. . ®iefe§ BelieBte @crid;t n)irb bereitet, inbem 

iJMCt) ie. ^^^ ^^ 1^^^^ ^.^ ^i^^j^ gefoc^ten unb fein gers 

fd^nittenen ©todfifd) eine gleic^groge Ouantitdt ger? 
quetfc^ter £artoffeIn jugibt. gorme ©dlte baraug unb 
fc^more fie in einer ^fanne ober \\\ fod^enbem %tii. 

3rgenb zwx anberer g-ifd) !ann auf biefelbe SSeife rers 
raenbet merben. 

@ e f ( ii g e I. 

!3ja§ gleifd) be§ ©eftiigelS faun nidjt gu ben billigen 



67 Fowls. 

It must be freshened by laying it in water over 
night ; put into cold water and bring gradually to a 
boil; set the kettle back where it will keep hot for 
half an hour, separate the flakes and serve with a 
milk sauce. 

This favorite dish is prepared by 

adding to codfish, boiled as above and 

finely shredded, a like quantity of mashed potato. 

Make into balls and fry on a griddle or in boiling fat. 

Any other fish can be used in the same way. 

FOWLS. 

The flesh of fowls cannot rank among cheap foods, 
but in any economical family the Sunday dinner may 
often be a fricassee made of a fowl no longer young. 
Unless very ancient, the flavor of such a fowl will be 
richer than that of a chicken ; we have but to cook 
it till it is tender. 

Old Fowl Trie- Cut into joints, put into cold water 
asseed and bring slowly to a simmering heat ; 

on no account let it boil, — keep it as nearly as pos- 
sible at 170° for 3 or 4 hours, or till it is very tender. 
At the end of 2 hours, add a sliced onion and salt 
and thicken the gravy. 

None but the wealthy should use 

Chicken Soup. , . , „ i - ^ xi i 

chickens lor soup, but irom the bones 
left of baked or fricasseed chicken a good and eco- 
nomical soup can be made. Boil an hour or two, 
take out the bones, thicken a little and serve with 
bread dice fried in butter. 

An excellent soup can be made of the 

gihlets, that is, heart, liver and neck of 
chicken, and other fowls, which in city markets are 



(Scftugcl. 58 

©pcifcn gered^net tDerben, atteirt in irgcnb ctttcr fparfamen 
gamilie tann oft bie (Bom\ta(^^iWiiia^§mai)i^eit ein 
grtcaffee [ein, 'i)a§ nug eincnt iiid)t mcljr jungeii (S^tiicf 
©efli^el (jcrt^efteUt loirb. ^Benit er nidjt [c()r alt ift, 
rairb ber Oje[cf)macf ciiie^ [o(d)cu ^ogel^ dn reidjevcr [cin, 
alS ber uon einem jungcit ,5^i§i^<i)^^M ^i^* bvauc^eit i^n 
b[o§ gu focf)cn, bi^ er ^art ift. 

gricaffee t)on oltem ^erfc^neibe in ©tiicfe, fet^e fie in 
(AJefliigel. fatten 2Ba[fer unb erraiirme fie (aug= 

fam 3U getinbem Iloc^cn; unter feineu Umftrinbcn taffe fie 
fieben, — ^aitc fie fo naijc, tuie moglid) 3 — 4 ©tunben 
lanc^, ober bi^ fie toeic^ finb, nuf 170". dlad) ^ertauf uon 
graei ©tiniben gib eine 3erfd)nittene ^Ji^i^^el^ unb ©alj ju 
unb cerbirfe bie (Sauce. 

MBnerfutoije ^"^ ^^^^^ ^^"^^ ^'^^^''" .&ii§ner ju (Sup. 
V -; I vf • pgj^ beuul^en; a((eiu aus bcu uon gebarfes 

nen ober fricaffirteu .^ii^ncrn iibrig gcblicbcueu ituodjen 

tann cine Qnte uub ofonomi|'d;e (Suppe gcmadjt raerben. 

iloc^e eiue big pvci (Stunben, nimm bie itnod;eu tjerauS, 

oerbirfe ein toenig unb rid)te init in gutter geriifteten 

53rDbraiirfe(n an. 

®eflugelflein= (?ine auSge^etd^nete ©uppe taf^t fid; au^ 
fuppe. i)em (^efUigelttein mad;cn, b. 9. .Jier.^, I'cs 

ber unb .!ja(§ eineg S^nljn^ ober anbcren Ojefliigetg, 
Toetdie in ben ©tcibten be[onber§ unb fef^r bidig oerfauft 
toerben. ^^^^fi^j^^i^^ ^" fteine (Stiirfd)en unb fodje jroet 
(Stunben mit graiebcfn unb jlrdutern, gib bann etraaS 
S3utter gu unb raafjrenb beg 55crbiden§ (Satj unb ^^feffer. 

G i e r. 

^te 39ebeutung oon (Siern Idgt fid^ t)on tjerfd^iebenen 
(^efidjtgpunften abmeffen; if)r 9^d(;rn)ertl) ift grof^, ifjre 
33erbau(id)fcit, tucnn fie frifd) finb, faft oodfontmcn, unb 
man fann fie anf fo uict uerfdjiebene Wrten unb ^eifen 
fod)en, unb fie finb notfjracnbige ik'ftanbt()ei(e fo uieter 
(S5erid)te, baf^ ber .kod) fie fd)raer entbc\)xen tann. ^n ah 



58 Eggs. 

sold separately and very cheap. Cut in small pieces 
and boil 2 hours with onion and herbs, then add a 
little butter and thickening, salt and pepper. 

EGGS. 

The importance of eggs is to be estimated from 
various points of view; their food value is great, 
their digestibility when fresh is almost perfect, and 
they can be cooked in so many ways and are a neces- 
sary ingredient of so many dishes, that the cook could 
ill spare them. Indeed, in all countries, their con- 
sumption seems to be limited only by their price. 

After the first twenty-four hours an 
Qgg steadily deteriorates. Physicians 
say, '^ never give to an invalid an egg that is more 
than two or three days old." 

There are methods in use for preserving eggs fresh, 
on the principle of excluding air by sealing up the 
pores of the shell, but none of them are without risk 
and they cannot be recommended to one who must 
economize closely. It is better to go without eggs as 
nearly as possible in winter. 

Eggs are as digestible raw as cooked, 

aw ggs. ^^^ ^^^ easily comes to like the taste of 

a fresh raw egg beaten to a foam and mixed with a 

little milk or water and sugar flavored with a little 

nutmeg or jelly. 

To soft boil an Qgg its temperature 

soft Boiled Eggs. ^^^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^.^^^ ^^^^^ -^^Qo^ The 

white will then be a jelly-like, digestible substance, 
but if exposed to a higher temperature, the white 
becomes horny while the yolk remains uncooked or 



<Eter. 59 

len Sdnbern [djetnt {.l;r gonfum tr;at[ac^nd§ bloS burc^ 
i^ren ^rei§ befd^rdnft ju loerben. 

^ifcfie ^'^'^ ^''^ ^^"^'^^" rterunbgroan^ig ©tunben 

uer[c^led;tert fic^ ein (5i ftetig. 3)ie ^Teqte 
fagen: „@tb einem MxanUn nte ein (St, "Oa^ mebr al§ 
2—3 ^age alt ift. " 

e§ gibt t)erfc^iebene Mttljo'oen, urn @ter frtfd^ 511 Ijalc 
ten, na(^ bem ^rin^ip ber :Ou[taug[djlie§ung, inbem man 
bie $oren ber (BdjaU oerftopft, fcine aber tft t)on 9^tftfo 
[ret, unb man !ann fie niemanb empfetjien, ber ftrenge 
©parfamfeit gu iiBen l)at. 3m 3Sinter i\t eg 6effer, icenn 
man fo mcl, xvie mogltc^, o^ne @ier fertig rairb. 

9iofie@ier ®^^^ ^^"^ ^^^ ^^^"f° cerbauli^, mie ge= 
^ ' !od)t, unb man fann Ieid;t hen OefG^marf 
eine§ frifc^en, rofjen (5:ig, ha§ gu ©c^antn gefd^Iogen unb 
tnit etma^ Mil^ ober gaffer unb ^udex Dermifc^t unb 
mit ein menig SJ^ugfatnu^ ober grnd^t;@elee gemur^t ift, 
lieb geminnen lernen. 

2Beid)qe!od)te ®ier .^V^" ^' '""''^ ^'' ^'^'"' ^"'^^^ 
^eic^getoc^te uier, ^^.^^ ^emperatur nic^t iiber IVO^ ge= 

hxad)t merben. ®ag SSeif^e mtrb bann eine gallertar^ 
tige ©ubftan,:;, a6er einer I;o^eren ^^emperatur au§ge[e^t, 
roirb ha^ 3Sei^e Ijornig, raa^renb ber hotter ungefod^t 
hUiht ober flebrig mirb. (5^ gibt ^md 30^etl^oben, urn 
ein (Si rid)tig jn foc^en, Die man je nad^ ^elieben vex-. 
roenben fann. 

1) (Si6 ein Ouart fod^enbeS Staffer ju uier (Siern ^u. 
33enii^e einen 23led)fef[e( ober ^afen (bie erf;it^t merben 
miiffen, elje man ha§ $Sa[|'er Ijineingiefjt) unb umrairffe fie 
ringSum mit glanneltuc^. SDie @ier merben in 6 TOnu= 
ten fertig fein, leiben aber aud§ in 3e^n 3Q^inuten feinen 
@d)aben. 

2) ©e^e hie @ier in falteg 2Ba[[er unb fringe e§ 
langfam jum jl'odjen. 2Benn ha^ SBaffer 3U foc^en be= 
ginnt, finb fie fertig. 



59 Egg Dishes. 

becomes pasty. There are two methods of boiling an 
egg properly, which may be adopted according to 
convenience. 

1st. Allow 1 qt. of boiling water to 4 eggs. Use a 
pail or jar ( heated before the water is put in ) and 
wrap around with a flannel cloth. The eggs will be 
done in 6 minutes, but are not harmed by ten. 

2d. Put the eggs into cold water and bring slowly 
to a boil. They are done when the water begins to 
boil. 

To boil an esrsr hard, it is no more 

Hard Boiled Eggs. , -, , i • t. j 

necessary to expose it to a high degree 
of heat than in the case of the soft boiled ; the heat 
must simply be much longer continued, 20 minutes 
to a half hour. The egg will then be solid but not 
horny as when cooked in boiling water. 

A great many attractive dishes can be made of cold 
boiled eggs. 

Scrambled, These are but different modes of cook- 

and baked egg-s. ' ing eggs soft or solid. The taste will 
be more delicate and they will be more digestible if 
in these cases also only the low degree of heat above 
mentioned be applied — more time being given them 
than is usually allowed. 

EGG DISHES. 

These dishes under many names and in many forms 
are of next importance after meats, composed, as they 
generally are, of eggs and vegetables or some prepara- 
tion of the grains, while numberless additions and fla- 
vors are used to give variety and make the dish tempt- 
ing to the eye and palate. Eggs so prepared have their 
full nutritive value; not so in rich puddings and cakes, 



€icrgcrt(i?te. 60 

^artgefottene Urn tin (5t ^art 511 todjen, Braiid)t 

^^^^' man eg nidjt me(;r einem ^of)en SScirmes 

grabe auSjufc^en, me hdm 3Be{d)foc^en; bte §il^e mug 
b(o§ langer anbauern, 20SLRinuten bt§ eine I)al6e(3tunbe. 
3)a§ @t n)irb bann feft [ein, aber ntd^t l^orntg, loie raenn 
eg in fiebenbem 2Baf|er gefoc^t tDcire. 

@e^r t)iele an^te^enbe @evtcf)te fonncn au§ fatten, ge^ 
foc^ten @iern gemod^t roerben. 

9ffu^r=, eingefc^Iagene ^teg ftnb blog »erf d^tebene SSets 

©ier, Dmeletten unb fen beg §art= unb 3Beic^foc^eng 
©piegeleier. t)on (Stern. ®er ©efc^marf wirD 

babei belifater unb fie raerben and) letd^ter oerbaultd), 
xomn in btefen gdden and) nur ber niebrige @rab ber 
oBen errodl^nten ©rradrmung angeraenbet rairb — ha tl^nen 
babet me^r ^tit gegeben rairb, alg man gerao^nlid^ eins 
rdumt. 

@ i e r g e r i (^ t e. 

®iefe ©ertc^te finb unter cerfdjiebenen D^amen unb in 
Der[(f)iebenen ©eftatten an 33ebeutung ben gfeifd^fpeifen 
am ndc^ften, ha fie, roie im 5(tlgemeinen, aug (Jiern unb 
3SegetaMlien ober einigen ©etreibeprdparaten befte^en, 
radl^renb japofe gutfjaten unb ©emiirje benul^t merben, 
um if;nen 5ibn)ed)glung ^u geben unb hie ©eric^te fiir 
5(uge unb @aumen rei3enb ju geftalten. 3)te fo ^n be? 
rettenben (Jier ^aben if;ren Dotlen D^dljrmertJ); nic^t aber 
in reic^en g^ubbingg unb ^ud^en, mo fie mit me^r ^ucfer 
unb j^ett oermengt finb, alg bag Jlorperfi)ftem in irgeub 
einer Quantitdt auf^unel^men Dermag. 

golgenbeg finb einige dte^eipte, hie nic^t unter anberen 
Ueber[rf)riften eingefd^toffen maren. 3SieIe anberc mirb 
man unter ^od;en t)on £6rnerfriid^ten finben 

SBrob'Dmelette ^ '^^^^^ ^^'■'^'^^' ^^K^^W'^if^ "^ ^^^^6em 

^roo- omelette. ^^^^^^ unb ^mild) ober au^ in taltem 

2Saffer aufgemeidjteg 93rob (in roerd^cm %a\le man eg in 
eiuem ^ud^e augpreffen unb .^erfriimcln mug); gib bie 
^dlfte Don einer gerl^adtcn ^roi^'^^I^ S"r ^^'^^" ©gtbffel 



60 Egg Dishes. 

where they are mixed with more sugar and fat than 
the system can take up in any quantity. 

The following are a few recipes that have not been 
included under other heads. Many others will be 
found under the Cooking of the Grains. 

1 cup of hard bread partly softened in 

Bread omelet. , , . n -n -it i_ 

not water and milk, or in cold water 
(in which case press in a cloth and crumble), add ^ of a 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 Qgg, 
salt and pepper. Heat in the frying pan or square 
baking pan, some bits of suet or beef fat, and pour 
in the omelet. Cover and bake five minutes, then 
uncover and brown. Or it may be cooked slowly on 
top of the stove. Cut in pieces and serve around the 
meat or with a gravy. 

Bread, fresh or stale, is cut in long 

Egged bread. , . . j -j-u 

strips, or m squares or rounds with a 
cake cutter. Let them soak till soft but not broken, 
in 1 pt. of salted milk into which two eggs have been 
beaten. Bake a nice brown or fry on a griddle in 
half suet and half butter. (May be made with one 

Fry a small onion, sliced, in a tea- 
spoonful of butter or fat; fill the pan 
with 2 cups of cold sliced potatoes, salt and pepper 
them, and pour over them 2 beaten eggs. Bake slowly 
till it is just solid and turn out carefully on a plat- 
ter. Or, 1 cup potatoes and 1 cup bread crumbs 

may be used. 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoons 

Rice omelet. •^^ -, ^ i_ m. h/t- j 

milk, 1 Qgg, ^ teaspoon salt. Mix and 
pour into a pan in which a tablespoon of butter has 



(Eiergcric^tc. 6H 

^er^acfter ^etcrfilie, etn (gi, ©afj unb g^feffev. Ch-Iji^e 
in ber ©c^morpfanne ober in ber uierecfigen S^acfpfanne 
em 53igd)eu dlkven- ober ^Hitb^fett unb fdjiitte hie Omes 
lette Ijinein. SDecfe ^u unb laffe fiinf 9«inutcn Bacfen, 
becfe bann nuf unb Inffe fie Bvciunen. Ober fann man fie 
and) langfom oben nuf bem Ofen fodjen. ^d)mihc in 
(Stiidfe unb xid)te fie ringg urn ha§ %Ui\d) ober mit einer 
@auce an. 

(Sierbrob ^^'^^' frifc^eS ober altgebacfeneS, ratrb in 

©treifen gefc^nitten, ober auc^ in Ouabrate 
ober ©c^eiben mit bem ^uc^enfc^neiber. :^affe fie, big fie 
raeid^ roerben, oljue ^n gerbrec^en, in einem ^int gefal^ener 
'^ild) einraeidjen, in raelc^e ^raei @ier gefd)tagen raorben 
finb. 33acfe fie Ijiibfd) hxann ober fd)more fie in ber 
@cj)morpfanne in einer ^ur ^dlfte au§ D^ierenfett, ^ur 
J^dlfte au§ 33utter befte^enben 9D?ifc^ung. (£ann mit 
einem einjigen (?i gemad)t merben.) 

Sfactoffel^Dmetette. .f'."^' ''"' "^"= fl^t^'T'^T" 
" bet in einem ^^eeloffebott 33utter 

ober %ttt. giitfe hie ^fanne mit 2 iaffenooll falter jer^ 

fc^nittener ^artoffeln auf, fal^e unb pfeffere fie unb giege 

jroei jerfdilagene (Sier bariiber. 33ac!e langfam, hi§ e§ 

ehen feft mirb, unb brel^e e§ forgfditig auf eine^^tatteum. 

Ober fann man aud^ cine ^affe ilartoffeln unb eine ^affe 

33robfrume oermenben. 

en •;= o i *i. ®^"s Za\\e falten, qefocbten 9^ei§, 2 
3}e,8-DmeUtt*. j^^^^j^j^f ^^^^^^ etn (gi, einc, ^(6en 

^^eeliiffelooH iSal,^ Wi\d)e unb giege in eine ^fanne, 
in n)dd)ev tin ©^BffefooII 33utter jerlaffen rcorben tft. 
©d^more unb fd)lage fie um, menu fie fertig ift. Ober 
fann man e§ auc^ roie bie .f^^artoffelomelette haden. 

Jjee^l-Jmeiette. ^^^^^ ^.^^ ^rie§d;en ©0(3, gib aulet^t 
ha^ ^erfd^Iagene Sei^e oon bem (5i ^u^ 

®ie§ ift ber „?)orff^ire Rubbing'', ber in ber ^fanne 
gefoc^t mirb, iiber raelc^er O^iinbfteifd) bratet; er joirb in 
11 



61 Cheese Dishes. 

been heated. Fry and double over when done. Or, 
it may be baked like potato omelet. 

1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 

our ome e . ^]t^q\^ ^f ^^Xt, add the beaten white of 
the egg last. 

This is the "Yorkshire Pudding" which is cooked 
in the pan over which beef is roasting; it is cut in 
squares and served around the meat. It may also be 
baked in a buttered pan without meat. 

3 eggs, 1 cup flour (scant), 1 table- 
Tomato omelet. ^ ■, -, t, , 

spoon fine herbs, salt and cayenne pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon sugar, juice of 2 large tomatoes and 
1 cup warm milk. Bake under roasting meat, or alone 
in a buttered pan. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Almost any cheese will give a good result in these 
dishes. Crumbly cream cheese is richer in taste and 
has also been shown to be more quickly digested. 
Skim cheeses are as nutritious except in fat, and in 
some dishes, as in *'Fondamin" give a better result. 
Grate old cheeses, chop new and soft ones. 

Grate old cheese and serve with bread 
and butter. It is also a good addition to 
mashed potato, to flour porridges, to oatmeal and 
and wheat flour porridges, to rice, sago, tapioca and 
indeed to any starchy foods; it should be stirred 
in while these are quite hot. Its use with macaroni 
is given elsewhere. 

Cooked cheese The Tjasis of these dishes is toasted 

with bread, bread (white or graham) arranged on a 

platter, and enough salted water poured on to soften it. 



Kafcgcr\c^tc. 62 

Dierecfige ©tiirfe jcrfc^nitten unb bann ringg urn ba§ 
gleifc^ angertdjtet. ilann aurf) oljite glctfd) in etncr mit 
S3utter 6eftrt(^enen ^fanne gebacfen roerben. 

^arabie§apfel=)^ . . 3 (gter, etne ^affc ^Jle^t 

(Xomato=) f ♦ (nid^t ge^duft), einen (Sfeloffer. 

DotI fetne ^rauter, ©alg unb (Sapenne^^feffer, einen (Sfes 
(offeloott S^idcx, ben ©aft t)on 2 grogen ^arabie^dpfeln 
unb eine Za\\c raarmer ifftildi). ^ade unter bratenbem 
%Ui\d) ober aUein in einer mit 33utter Beftric^enen 
^fanne. 

^ a f e g e r i ci§ t e* 

35ei btefen ©eric^ten gibt faft jeber ^cife gute ^e\nU 
tate. 3^^f^*ii^"^^"^£^ 9^a^mfdfe ift reic^er an @e[c§macf 
unb i)at fid) and) al§ leic^ter gu Dcrbauen erroiefen. 
dia^mlo\c Ma\e [inb, ben gettgel;alt auggenommen, nic^t 
roeniger na^ii)a\i, unb bei einigen ©eric^ten, roie beim 
„gonbamin"ergeben fie beffere Df^efultate. ^evxeihc alien 
^dfe, ^erl^ade frifdien unb raeic^en. 

Serriebener Mfe. |S'f^.""s" f f'«:""^. "^'^I '^" 
^ ' mit 33utterbrob auf. (Sr ift auc^ eine 

gute B^S^'^^ i^ Ouetfd^fartoffeln, SJiel^lbreien, .gafers 

grille unb SSeijenmefjlbreien, gu diei^, ©ago, tapioca 

unb iiberljaupt alien ftdr!me^I(}aUigen ©peifen; er foUte 

eingerii^rt merben, mdfjrenb biefe nod^ ganj l^eig finb* 

©eine SSerroenbung mit 9Jlaearoni§ ift an anberer ©telle 

angegeben. 

^ofe mit SSrob ^ie ©runblage biefer @erid)ie ift ges 

gefod^t. rofteteS ©rob (mei^eS ober @ral)am) auf 
einer $latte auSgebreitet, mit genug ©aljmaffer bariiber 
gegoffen, um e§ ^u ermeid^en. 

1) ^exxcihe genug alten ^dfe, um ha§, mie oben jubes 
reitete, geri)ftete ©rob bamit ju bebecfen. ©ring' ilju in 
ben Ofen ^um ^erfd^mel^en unb lege hie ©d^nittcn mie 
belegte ©robd^en aufeinanber. SDieg ift bie einfad^fte 
garm t)on *' Welsh Rarebit". 



62 Cheese Dishes, 

1. Grate enough old cheese to cover the toast pre- 
pared as above. Set in the oven to melt, and put 
the slices together as sandwiches. This is the simplest 
form of '' Welsh Earebit.' 

2. -J lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter and 1 cup milk. 
Stir till smooth over a gentle fire or in a water bath 
and spread over the toast. 

3. \ lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 Qgg yolks, 
•J teaspoon mustard, a pinch of cayenne pejDper. Stir 
to smooth paste, spread on the toast and set in a hot 
oven for 4 minutes. 

4. To each person allow 1 Qgg, 1 tablespoon 
grated cheese, ^ teasj)oon butter or 1 tablespoon milk, 
a little salt and pepper (cayenne best). Cook like cus- 
tard in a pail set in a kettle of hot water, stirring 
till smooth, it may then be used on toast or poured 
out on a platter. It may also be steamed 5 minutes 
in little cups, or baked very slowly for 10 minutes. 

6. Slices of bread lightly buttered, 3 eggs, 1-J cups 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese. Soak the 
bread in the milk and Qgg till soft but not broken. 
Lay the pieces in a pan, cover with the cheese and 
bake or steam. 

Fondamin or This is a famous foreign dish, and 

Fondue. although it may seem to have a good 

many ingredients, it is really not much trouble to 
make. 

i lb. of grated cheese (skim better than cream) add 
to 1 gill of milk, in which is as much bicarbonate of 
potash as will lie on a three cent piece, \ teaspoon 
mustard, ^ saltspoon white pepper, a few grains of cay- 
enne, 1 oz. butter, a grating of nutmeg and 2 table- 



Kafcgcric^tc. 65 

2) I ^fb. ^afe, einen e^Ioffer 33utter unb eineXaffe 
^JJiild^. Sftil^re iibev einem gelinben geuer ober in eincm 
2Baf)ei*bab urn, M^ e^ glatt rairb, unb ftveirf)e e§ auf ba§ 
geroftete 8rob 

3) i ^[b. £dfe, einen (^B^offer 23utter, 2 (Sibotter, 
■J- 3:f)ee(offet ©enf, eine ^riefe Gat)enne;^fetier. 53er5 
riiljve gu einem glatten ^eig, ftveic^e auf bag geroftete 
S3rob unb [e^e e§ t)ier 90^inuten in einen I;eigen ©acfofen. 

4) @i6 fiir jebe ^erfon ein (5i, einen ©gfoffer jerries 
benen M]c, ^ S^eeloffei; 33utter ober einen (^^(offelcod 
)fflii(^, ein loenig ©al§ unb ^[effer (am he]tcn ^apennes 
^feffer) ju. jloc^e mie 9ta^mfu^en in eincm ©(ec^feffel, 
ber in einen £e[fei mit l^ei^em 2Saf]er gefe^t roirb, rii^re 
um, big e§ glatt i\t, roorauf man eg auf geroftetem 33robe 
oerroenben ober auf eine ^(atte au§fd)iitten fann. Wan 
tann eg auc§ 5 9JHnuten tang in fkinen 3:af|en bdmpfen, 
ober rec^t langfam 10 Minuten long Bacfen taffen. 

5) :^eic§t mit 33utter Beftri(^ene S3robfd^nitten, 3 (Sitv, 
li 4affen Wliidj, einen ^^eetiJffetooK ©atj, eine Xaffe 
jerriebenen ^afe. SSeid^e bag Srob in Mild) unb tki 
ein, big eg meic^ mirb, oi^ne ju jerbred^en. :2ege hie 
©tilcfe in eine ^fanne, ftreid^e ben^dfe bariiber unb borfe 
ober bdmpfe. 

gonbomin ober ^ieg ift einfamofeg, augtanbifd^eg ©es 
i^onbue. tic^t, unb obfc^on eg, wie man fe^enmirb, 
fic^er ciete 33eftanbtt)ei(e 'i)at, mac^t feine iBereitung nid^t 
fc fe^r viel 30^it^e. 

i ^funb jerriebenen ^ixie (raI;mtofer ift beffer alg 
fftal)mtaie) gib ju einem &ili Mild), in metdjem fic^ fo 
Diet boppetfoi^tenfaure ^Dttafd)e befinbet, atg auf ein 
2)reicentftiicf ge^t, ^ ^f;eeli)ffet t)ot( @enf, -J (galjloffels 
mei§en ^feffer, ein paar ^ornd)en (Japennepfeffer, eine 
Unje 33ntter, etroag jerriebene SOhtgfatnu^ unb 2 (SBfoff^l^ 
ooli gebrannteg 3!}Ze!^(. (Jrmdrme oorfic^tig, big ber jldfe 
gerget)t. ®ib brei gefd)tagene C?ier ju unh xiil)xe um, big eg 
gtatt mirb. ®ie 3}Zifct)ung foKte fiir jebe ^erfon bcfon= 



63 Milh 

spoons baked flour. Heat carefully till the cheese is 
dissolved. Add 3 beaten eggs and stir till smooth. 
This mixture should be baked separately for each per- 
son in patty pans or paper cases and eaten imme- 
diately. All cheese dishes should be served very hot. 

MILK. 

Milk is sometimes called the one perfect food, con- 
taining all the constituents in their right proportions. 
This is true only for the requirements of a baby, but 
it remains for any age a valuable food when rightly 
supplemented. 

Milk contains on the average 3.31^ proteids, 3.66^ 
fat, 4.9^ carbohydrates, 87.41^ water, and .70^ salts. 

The housewife, if she wishes to use milk with 
economy, will not in cooking use it as sucli, but 
with due regard to the different values of the cream 
and the skim parts. In cities skim milk is sold for 
about one-half the price of full milk, and is well 
worth it if pure, but it is too often mixed with water. 
As soon as milk comes into the house 
it should be boiled, as it is a notorious 
carrier of disease germs which only in this way can 
be killed. Use an earthenware pitcher and let the 
milk remain standing in the same after cooking. 
The next day remove the cream for the morning's 
coffee, and use the skim part during the day for cook- 
ing, with or without the addition of a little butter. 
To keep milk sweet in warm weather 
is a serious question to the housekeeper 
who has no cellar or refrigerator. It is of first im- 
portance that the vessels used to contain it should be 



JTttld?. 6^ 

ber§ in S^ortenpfannen ober in ^apiergefd^en gebacfen 
unb fogleid; oeqei^rt raerben. 3llte ^dfegeridjte milffen 
fe^r ^eig aufgetifd^t werben. 

^te 9}iild^ ttJirb ba unb bort ba§ einjtge oollfomntene 
S^afjvunggmittel genannt, ba fie alle Seftanbtl^eile in i§5 
ren ric^tigen ^roportionenent^dlt. ®ie§ gitt jcbod^ blo§ 
fiir bie 33ebiir[niffe eine§ ©dugling§, immer^in a6er bleibt 
fie, roenn fie rid)tig ergdn^t roirb, fiir jebeg SUter ein 
wcxtlpolic^ '^yia^xunQ^mitUU 

3)ie 9]^ild; ent^dlt im ®urc^[d)nitt 3.31 ^roj. ^roteim 
forper, 3.66 ^ro^. gett, 4.9 ^rog. ^o^kn^pbrate, 87.41 
$1-03. 2Ba[fer unb 70 ^ro^. ©alje. 

2Benn bie .g)au§frau Mild) fparfam gebrauc^en raiH, 
roirb fie biefelBe beim jl'oc^en nidjt a(§ fo(d)e oerraenben, 
fonbern mit gebii^renber S3erucffid)tigung be§ oerfc^iebes 
nen 2Bertl^e§ ber Sflal^m- unb rol^mlofen 5;^eile. ^n ben 
(gtdbten rairb abgera^mte Mild) fiir etraa bie ^dlfte be§ 
^vei[e§ Dotlftdnbiger Wild) vextan^t, unb fie ift benfelben 
roo^l xvtxil), raenn fie rein ift, atlein ^u l^dufig ift fie mit 
Staffer oermengt. 

«rT?-Y* r s ©obalb W Wild) in ha^ ^an§ fommt, 

jjmc^ lieoen. ^^^^^ ^.^ gefod)tu)erben, ba fie anerfannter= 
magen £ranf()eit§feime in fid) trdgt, bie nur auf biefe 
SSeife getobtet raerben fonnen. ©ebrauc^e einen irbenen 
Zop\ unb laffe bie Wild) nad) bem Jl'od)en barin fteljen. 
5lm ndc^ften 2:age nimm ben tfialim fiir ben 30^orgenfaffee 
ab unb benii^e hie abgera{}mte SO^itc^ ben ^ag iiber beim 
^oc^en mit ober ol^ne 3i^9^^^ ^^on etwa^ 33utter. 
^., . . . <• Wilda in njarmem SSetter fii§ m 

hie §au§^altertn, hie feinen teller ober (ki^apipaxat (kei 
frigerator) l)at, QSon erfter 33ebeutung ift e§, ha^ hie 
©efdge, bie ju if;rer Slufberoal^rung benut^tmerben, Tj)einc 
lid) rein gcf;a(ten raerben. !l)urc^ ha§ ©ieben, mie oben 
angegeben, unb fpdtereS, rafd)e§ 3lbfii^Icn l^dlt fie fid^ 24 



64 Milh. 

scrupulously clean. Boiling, as above mentioned, 
and cooling it raj^idly afterwards, will keep it sweet 
for 24 hours, unless the weather is very warm, and 
the time may be further extended by keeping the 
milk pitcher set in a dish of cold water. A quarter 
of a teaspoonful of baking soda to a quart of milk, 
added while it is still sweet, may be used in case of 
necessity but this is not to be commended for com- 
mon use. 

A method that the writer has em- 

Canning Milk. , t • n • • i • ,^ 

ployed IS this : simply canning the 
milk as one would can fruit. Fill glass jars and screw 
down the lids, then place them in a steamer over cold 
water ; heat the water gradually and steam the jars 
for an hour, then tighten the tops. I have never 
kept milk so treated for more than a week, but see 
no reason why it should not keep much longer. 

However, if you find yourself with 

sour milk on your hands, do not throw 
it away, it has many uses. Buttermilk is also very 
valuable to the housewife ; it can be kept a long time 
in good condition for mixing doughs by covering 
with water, which must, however, be often changed 
for fresh. 

USES FOR SOUR MILK AKD BUTTERMILK. 

Bonny Clabber. p^t skim milk into a glass dish or 
into tea cups and set away until it becomes solid. 
Then eat with sugar and powdered cinnamon sprink- 
led over it. 

Set thick sour milk where it will 
Cottage Cheese. ^^^^ gradually till the curd separates, 
then pour into a bag and let it drip till dry. Salt 
well, and add a little cream or milk and melted butter. 



Sauermtlc^ unb Buttermilc^ 65 

©tnnbett lang fiig, wenn nidjt bag SKcttcr [eljr n)arm tft, 
unb man fann btefe ^cit nod) raeiter uerldngeru, in; 
bem man hen Wiid)to^^ in einem ©efdg mit faltem 
Staffer ijalt. (gin 3]iertelg=3:l)eelDffel doU ©acfc®oba ^u 
einem Cuart '^ild) gegeBen, md^renb fie nod; [it^ i}i, tdnn 
im dlot^^aU benul^t merben, fiir gemo^nli^en ©eBraud^ 
ober i}t fie nid;t 3U empfe-^Ien. 

eonfeibiren ber ©tne von ber 35erfafferin angeraanbte 
50^i^c^- aJJet^obe ift biefe: man fonfevDirt einfad^ 

^ie Tlild) gerabe fo mie ^riidjte. ^ixtlc (jinmad)gtd[er 
nnb fc^raube hie !Dedet feft; fe^e fie bann in einem 
!4)ampffDc^er liber falteg SSaffer; ev^i^e ha^ Staffer ad; 
md^tic^ unb fe|e bie ©Idfer eine ©tunbe kng bem ®ampf 
aug, bann fdirauBe bie ^edel feft. ^c^ ^abe nie fo be^an- 
belte Mild) Idnger a(§ eine SBoc^e gc^alten, fe^e aber tei- 
nen @runb ein, marum fie fid) nid;t nod) md Idnger l)aU 
ten foKte. 

©aure mild), ^f^l f\ f '1 ^'^"^'f ^'H^' ^'"'r' 
^ Wild) befinbejt, fo mirf fie nid;t meg; fie 

"(a^t fid) auf cielerki 2Bei|e Derraenben. 5luc^ 23utter= 

mil ift fiir bie t^auSfrau fef;r mertlpott; fie Id^t fid; lange 

^eit in gutem ^itftanbe ^ur 33eimi|djnng in Xei^e exl)aU 

ten, inbem man fie mit ^^Baffer iiberbedt, ha^ [ehod) oft 

gegen frifd^eS auSgetaufdjt merben mu§. 

^Sermenbungen von (Sauer= unb 33uttter = 

m i I d;. 

%idmild). Bonny @iege abgeral;mte Mild) in ein 
Clabber. @la§gefd§ ober in eine Zl)eeta\\e unb 

fe^e fie beifeite bi§ fie geftanben ift. ®ann i§ fie mit 
3ucfer unb puloeriftrtem ^immet, bie man bariiber 
ftreut. 

^^ . ^„. 33ring' faure Mild) an einen $la^, mo 

toc^mierraie. ^.^ ^^^ aamdt;tic^ eriodrmt, hi^ ber Oatarf 
fid^ abfonbert, fc^iitte fie bann in einen (Bad unb la\^ ab^ 
tropfen hi^ ex troden gemorben. ^Bal^e il)n bann tiid)t[g 



65 Sour Milh and Buttermith, 

1st. As a drink. For this it should 

Buttermilk. , „ , 

be very fresh. 

2d. Buttermilk soup. (See page 123. ) 

Both buttermilk and sour milk can 
Uses for both. , , 

be used 
1st. In making soda biscuit dough (see page 102.) 
2d. In pancakes of all kinds (see page 103.) 
3d. In corn bread (see page 103.) 
'4th. In some kinds of cake, as in gingerbread, 
cookies and doughnuts, where they are by many cooks 
preferred to sweet milk ; and in almost any kind of cake 
sour milk may be substituted for sweet, remembering 
always to use only half the quantity of cream of tartar 
called for in the recipe. 
6 



;Jcttcunb 0)elc. ^ 

unb gibt dma^ didjm obcr Wild) mit jcrlaffencr 33utter 

'' foUte lie fcl;v frtfc^ fein. 
2) 33uttermild);@uppe. ©. ©eite 123. 
®ebraudj Seiber. , a^uttctmi^ foroo^f, wic ©auevmilc^ 
-* rami Dcrracnbct roerbeu 

1) 3^1^ 33erettung uon ©oba;©igcuitteig (f. ©eite 
102.) 

2) 3u ^fannfudjcn aUcr 2trt (f. (S. 103.) 

3) 3u 9Jlat§brob ([. ©. 103.) 

3) 3" einigcn ^'ud^enfortcn, loic 311 3i^9^^^*^"c^^", 
$ld^(^en unb ©djmaljfudjen, bci wdd)cn il;neu ciele 
jibd)e uor fiifeer SO^ild) ben ^orjug geben; unb in f oft jeber 
@orte Don ^'uc^en fann fauve ftatt fiiger 9}^i(c§ oerraenDet 
raerben, raenn man ftet§ im 3luge bel;dlt, ha^ man bann 
ftetg b(og Ijalb fo ute( SSeinftein benut^en barf, alg in ben 
Df^ejepten angegeben. 



^^tt^ un^ CDj^Ijc. 



!4)ie britte Df^aljrungSgrunblage, ^ettc, ftel;t ^raifd^cn 
ben jraci gro^n'n (h-ndl)runggmttteln, ben ^roteinforpern 
auf ber einen unb hen iiDl)lenI;t)bratcn auf ber anbeven 
©eite, unb wix finben, ha^ mix unS iiber i^ven (^chxand) 
mit betrdd)ttid;er 23reite evgel^en fonncn. SSenn wix um 
fere SiZaljrung in md)X uerbidjteter gorm ju befommen 
miinfdjen, fbnneu mir con getten in 35erbinbung mit ^ro? 
teinforpern reidjlid; @ebraud; mac^cn unb bie Ouantitdt 
ber JXoi^lenljpbrate nerminbern. ^n ben ^(rmec^^idtres 
geln mirb bci 3D?dr[d;en bie gettquantitdt bebeutenb Dcr^ 
grb[^ert, unb bci gro^H'r 5(nftrengung mirb breimal fouiel 
baoon geftattet al§ im ©arnifon^lcbcn. S)ie tdglidjen 
Siationenj. 33., meld)ebcn beut[c^en©olbaten ingranfrcid^ 
mdljrenb beg 3J^onat§ 3Iuguft 1870 jugemeffen murbeu, 
entf)ielten 



FATS A]^D OILS. 



The third food principle, Fats, stands between the 
two great nutrients, Proteids on the one hand and 
Carbohydrates on the other, and we find that we can 
indulge in considerable latitude as to its use. When 
we wish to get our food in a more condensed form, 
we can use fats freely in connection with proteids 
and lessen the amount of carbohydrates. In army 
dietaries the amount of fat is largely increased for 
marching, and for great exertion the quantity be- 
comes three times that allowed in garrison life. For 
instance, the daily rations served out to the German 
soldiers in France during the month of August, 1870, 

contained 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

Army Dietary. ^^^ ^^^^ ^g^ ^^^^ 33^ ^^^^ 

It was represented by 1 lb. 10 oz. of bread, about 
1^ lbs. of meat, and over -J lb. of bacon besides an 
allowance of coffee, tobacco and wine or beer. Prof. 
Ranke has called this an admirable diet for fighting 
men. In garrison life these soldiers would have re- 
ceived only 56 grams of fat, and 120 grams of pro- 
teids while the carbohydrates would have been in- 
creased to 500 grams or more. 

On the other hand, fat when coupled with enough 
carbohydrate food can replace some of the proteid, 
and often does so in the food of hardy and econom- 



Scbcutung bes ^ettcs. 67 

^ 157 @rm. 285 ®rm. 331 @rm. 

®te^ wax vcprcifentirt in 1 ^funb, 10 Unjen 33rDb, 
cttca 1-^ 5p[unb gtetfc^ unb iikr -J- ^funb ©pei 
nebcn einer D^ation £affee, Zahat unb SSetn 
ober U5ier. ^rof. jRanfe l^at bic§ al§ eine augs 
gejeid^nete '^idt fiir ^ricger be^eic^net. 3'" ©arnti 
fonSleben rciirben bicfe ©olbaten nur 56 @ramm j^ctt 
unb 120 Oramm ^rotefnforper Befommen ijahcn, waiji 
renb hie Mof)Uni)i)'oxate auf 500 @ramm ober bariiber 
Dermeljrt n)orben rociren. 

%n\ ber anberen ©ette fann gett, n)enn e§ mit genug 
' !eul;t)brat;9^aljrung uerbunben ift, etxva^ Dom protein 
erfe^en, unb e§ tijut hie§ if;aufig in ben 9^al;ning^jmitteln 
abgcljcirtctcr unb fparfamer ^eute» 

®iat be§ bdrifc^en ^01$:= ®er Batri[d)e ^olaljacfer ift 
^auer^. ^m-,^ feine auSgejeidjnete 33ers 

bauung in ben ©tanb gefcl^t, fctne ®int in fotgenber 
3Kei[e einjuricfiten: er nimmt dwa§ protein an§ bent 
jt^ierreic^, urn ahcx au§ ^flanjenerjeugniffen genug ha^ 
von 3U befommen, mug er, me wix rctffen, eine immenfe 
SD^affe be§bamitt)erbunbenen©tdrfme^t§ ^u fid) neljmen, 
unb Tjierju fiigt er eine groge Ouantitat %dt. 35on Sie= 
big fagt, ein [oldjer Mann nel^me im 3)urc|[d)nitt ju fid) 

^roteinfSrper. ^ctte, ^ol^Ien^pbrate. 

112 ®rm. 309 ©rm. 691 ®rm. 

Wix fel^en barau§, ha^ mix eine t)erfd^iebbare (Btala 
fiir }^eite 'i)ahcn !i3nnen; ha^ wix, ob[d)on wir nidjt unter 
2 Unjen per ^ag l^erabgefjcn fodten, menu loireinen ober 
"btihe ber anberen grogen 9^al)rung§be[tanbtl;ei(e oermin; 
bern, hi§ ju 8 ober 9 Unjen l^inauf geljen fiinnen. 

S)ie 33ebeutitng beg getteg 2entc von hen n)o(}l^bcnbcn 

nicfit erfannt. jllaffen erfcnnen felten, raenn 

fie ben ©egenftanb nidjt [pejteK ^um ©tubium gemad;t 

l^aben, bie ^ebeutung be^ ^ette^ in unfcrem ^an§l)alii 



67 Importance of Fats, 

Diet of Bavarian ical people. The Bavarian woodchop- 
woodchopper. per is enabled by his splendid digestion 
to arrange his diet in the following way : he takes 
little proteid from the animal kingdom, but in order 
to get enough of it from vegetable products, he must, 
as we know, take in an immense quantity of the 
starch associated with it, and to this he adds a great 
quantity of fat. Von Liebig says that such a man 
takes on the average 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

112 gms. 309 gms. 691 gms. 

We see therefore that we can have a sliding scale 
for fat; that while we should not go below 2 oz. a day, 
we may, in case we lower one or both of the other 
two great constituents, go up to 8 or 9 oz. 
Importance of People belonging to the well-to-do 
Fat not reaUzed. classes, unless they have given special 
study to the subject, seldom realize the importance 
of fat in our economy. Fat means to them fat meat, 
suet, lard and the like, and the much eating of these 
is considered proof of a gross appetite; they do not 
consider how much fat they take in eggs, in milk, in 
grains like oatmeal and maize, in the seasoning of 
their varied dishes, and in their well-fattened meats, 
where, as in an average piece from a very fat mutton, 
they eat twice as much fat as proteid without knowing 
it. 

Indeed, a well fed man of the upper classes may 
have more fat in his daily diet than has the freshly 
arrived Mechlenburg laborer who spreads a quarter 
inch layer of lard on his bread. The latter cannot 
take his fat in unsuspected forms; he craves this 



(Erfat5 fiir S3uttcr. 68 

toefen. r^ett tft iljnm fette§ %Ui\di), 9^ierenfctt, ©c^raeines 
\di)mal^ u. bgl., uiib 33ielcffen von benfelbenrairb al§ ^a 
tocig eine§ berbett 5Ippetit§ Betradjtet; fie enucigen jeboc^ 
nid^t, rate md %ctt fie in @iern, Wlild) unb ©etreibe, tuie 
tm §afermel[;l unb 9Jiai§, inbenSBur^beftanbtljeitcn {(jver 
manigfaltigen @erid;te unb in iljven tiirfjtig burdjfettctcn 
gleifdjfpeifen genicj^cn, in wddjm fie, raie 3. ©. ineinem 
®urd;[d;nitt§ftiic! con einem fel^r fetten ^ammel, ^weimal 
fo incl ^ctt, mc protein effen, oljue e§ 3U raiffen. 

Z^at\a&)U^ tann ein gutgenafjrtcr Wen\di t)on hen 
ohcxcn (Jlaffen mef)r ^ett in fciner tiiglic^cn i)iat ^nben, 
al§ ber frifc^ iiber ©ee gefommene sJZerflcnburger ^lage^ 
B^ner, ber eine Diertel^oHbide Sage ©d^raeinefc^mal^ auf 
fein 33rob fd;miert. 3)er Sei^tere fann fein %dt nidjt in 
etner gorm nel^men, oon ber er nid;t§ a^nt; er rerlangt 
mit ^cgier nad) biefer ^Za^rungggrunblage, ^ufammen 
mit feiner ^flanjenbiat, unb er mu^ fie eben ne|men, rate 
er fie befotninen fann. 

Wix raoHen un§ nitn barilber cerftdnbigcn, ha^, rao 
fparfame ^au§()aUung in 33etradjt fommt, biefe gettfrage 
fic^ nid;t Don felBer mad)t, raie bei bem rcid;en 3QZanne. 
®ie fparfame ^auSfrau foKte ftetg cingcben! fein, ha^ fie 
tfirer gamilie gett genug liefern mug, unb jraar bitlig. 

etf«S fiir SButter. ®""« 'J^ ./'" [% ^^^^"1 ^ctt; 
^ ' redjne oa^ tn tl;r ent^altcne SBaffcr ah 

unb ficl^ bann, raa§ fie 5j)ici^ foftet. 2Bir miiffen tnit ber 
3Serraenbung ber 23utter auf moglid^ft vide SScife Ijan^^ 
l^alten. 3Sir miiffen mel^r fctte§ gleifd; effen, uor Sltlem 
ia§ mit bem SJlageren burc^raad^fene, inbcm e§ bie ©telle 
be§ 2Saffer§ einnimmt, raie rair untcr ^^rotcinfijrpern" 
gcfc^en I^aben, unb un5 tfjatfac^Hc^ nic^tg !oftct; raenn 
rair unfere 55egeta!6i(ien mit einem fold^en ©tiitfe gteifd^ 
al§ ©efdjmadSjugabe gcnicgen, fo finben rair fie Ijinfangs 
lid) geraiir^t. 3©tr mii[|"cn obcr aud^ mcfjr ^'cttcS gtcifc^ 
effen, ha^ rair rairflid; alS fold}e§ anerfcnnen, raobci rair 
un§ bemiil;en fotlten, eg fo ju iod;en, ha^ eg fd^madfljaft 



68 Substitutes for Butter. 

principle with his plain vegetable diet, and must take 
it as he can get it. 

Now let us understand that where economy is to be 
considered, this question of fat does not take care of 
itself as it does for the rich man. The economical 
housewife should always keep in mind that she must 
furnish her family enough fat, and furnish it cheai3ly. 
Substitutes for Butter is a dear fat ; count out the 
Butter. water in it and see what it costs you. 
We must economize in butter in as many ways as 
possible. We must eat more fat meat, first, that 
which is ingrained with the lean where it takes the 
place of water, as we have seen under ^^Proteids," 
costing us practically nothing; when we eat our 
vegetables seasoned with such a piece of meat, we 
find them sufficiently seasoned. We must also eat 
more of fat meat which we recognize as such, taking 
pains to cook it so that it will be palatable; the 
crisp, brown outside of a roast is always welcome, but 
the fat of boiled beef or mutton will also be relished 
if served very hot. An excellent selection in low- 
priced beef, is the fat middle rib ; the lean part is 
very tender and juicy when cooked in water at a low 
temperature for two or three hours ( or in Heat Saver, 
see page 44, for three or four hours ) and the fat, if 
served hot, any but a pampered taste will relish. 
Too much cannot be said in praise of pork as furnish- 
ing a good tasting and cheap fat ; it can be cooked in 
many ways and used to flavor vegetables, etc. 
Digestibility of It is consoling to the economist to 
Fat. know that little of this food prin- 

ciple will be wasted in the body. Fat is more com- 



Kiinftlid^e Butter. 69 

tcivb. "^ic !nu§prigc, Braune 5Xu^en[eite eine§ 33raten§ 
ift ftet§ luidfommen, allein and) 'iia^ gctt t)on gcfodjtem 
S^iinbs obcr .giiTiunctfleifd) voivh gerne genoffcn, iDcnn e§ 
red)t t^cij^ aufgetifc^t tinrb. (Jine Dor^iiglidje 5lu§raa^( 
Don billigcm 9^inbf(ei[d) ift ha§ fette, mitttcre O^ippenftiid; 
ber magcve ^l;ei(bauon ift [e()r ^axt unb fflftig, rvcnn e§ 
gtoet bt^brci ©tunbcn long bet niebriger ^cmperatur in 
2Baf[er gefodjt tt)irb (ober im @parfod;npparat, f. @. 44, 
3 — 4 (Stunben), unb ba§ ^^-ett trirb, tDcnn e§ !^ei§ aufge- 
ti[d;t it)irb, jebem auf^er einem iiberfdttigten ©cfc^mnde 
angencf;m fein. 3"'^ ^reife be§ ©d^raeincflcifdjc^, racit 
e§ ein n)oI)(l'cl^medcnbc§ biHigcS gett licfcrt, fnnn gar 
nid)t ju t)iel gefagt n)erben. d)lan tann c§ auf cielerlci 
3Sei|'e fodjcn unb e§ auc^ al§ ©efd^mad^jugabe fiir ^cge^ 
tahiiicn u]m. benu^en. 

SSerbaund)!eit be§ ©g ift ein ^Troft [iir ^au§'i)aUcv ju 
i^etteg. it)i[fen, baf^ raenig con biefer 9^a^rung§s 

grunblage im 5torper oerloren gel;t. SDag ^etttuirb na^ 
ben 3cugni[fen bev (?rperimentatoren tjodftanbiger a6[or; 
birt, a(^ ivgenb eine anbere 9^a{;rnnggforte, fogar ha^ 

2Bir moc^ten I;iev nod) einige $Sorte iiber hie 33e[ci^affen5 
l^eit Berfc^iebener tfjierifdjer ^ette Bemerfen, unb bann 
finb wix mit biefem ©eftanbe fertig. 

We von un§ rer^el^rten %ette ol^ne ^luSnal^me Beftel^cn 
aus brei, neutrale %ette genannten £orpern, bie in t)cr= 
fd)iebenen 55er]^dltni[fen mit einanber cevmengt finb. 
^ie[e brei ^orpcr finb ha§ „0(ein'', ^a§ „^a(mitin" 
(3)iargarin) unb „<BUarin", unb ber t^anptunterfdjieb 
jmifdjen iljnen ift ber, haf^ fie 6ei t)er]c^iebenen ^emparn; 
turen fdjmeljen; je mel^r £)lein eine gettart f)at, um fo 
leidjter ^erfc^mit^^t fie, unb je meniger fie Ijat, un: fo meljr 
gkic^t fie bem 3;;a(ge. ^sn hen pfian^lidjcn Oetcn finben 
roir aufter biefen nod} flcine Oantitdtcn ber fogcnanntcn 
„gettfduren", unb in ber 33utter 'i)ahen mix nnfjcr ben 
12 



69 Artificial Butter. 

pletely absorbed, according to the testimony of the 
experimenters, than any other kind of food, even 
meat. 

We want to say a few words as to the character of 
different animal fats, and then we are done with this 
subject. 

All the fats consumed by us, without exception, are 
composed of three bodies called neutral fats, mixed 
together in varying proportions. These three bodies 
are *^olein," ^^palmatin" (margarin), and **stearin," 
and the chief difference between them is that they 
melt at different temperatures; the more olein a 
fat has, the more easily it melts, and the less it has, 
the more it is like tallow. In vegetable oils, we find 
in addition to these, small quantities of what are 
called ^^ fatty acids," and in butter we have beside the 
three common fats, a small per cent of four scarcer 
ones. 

Practically therefore, all fats are 

Fats compared. ,., -, , i i i j^i i 

alike, and when absorbed they do 
the same work in the body, their varying flavors 
and their colors having nothing to do with this. 

However, their flavor, their appearance and the 
ease with which they melt in the mouth and in the 
digestive tract have much to do with our estimation 
of them as foods. Mutton fat will do our body the 
same service as butter, but because of the relatively 
small amount of olein it contains, we have difficulty 
in swallowing it. 

As to the comparative digestibility of these fats, it 
is generally admitted that those which melt at a low 
temperature, like butter and vegetable oils, are most 



Kiinftlidje Butter. 70 

brei gctDol^nlirfien g-ettarten nod) einen fleincn ^rojciitfa^ 
won uicr [cltcneren. 

SSergleicfiung ber 3^^ 2Bir!licfjfcit [inb baljer alle %dte 
i^ette. einanbcr gfci^, unb raenu fie abforbirt 

finb, tijun fie aUe bicfelbcn ©ienfte im ^orper, ia if)r 
uerfd}iebener ©efd^macf unb t(;re garbe bamtt ni(^i:§ ju 
tl)un I; at. 

Sljr ©efd^mac! aber, {(^r Hu§fe!)en unb bie Seid^s 
tigfeit i!^re§ 3^^[f!)"^^''^Scn§ tm 93Zunbe unb in 
ben ^Serbauunggfandlen ^abcn fiir un§ fe^r t)tel 
bei if)rer 5lbfc(;di^ung a[§ 9^af}vun(j§mitte( 3U tfjun, 
^ammelfctt leiftet unferem ilorper hk gleid^en 
4)ienfte, xvie 33utter, feincS geringen OleingefjalteS tt)es 
gen mac^t e§ un§ beim (Bdjludcn @d)raiertgfett. 2Ba§ 
ik Derglcid;§n)cife 35erbaulid;fcit btefcr %^ti^ betrifft, fo 
roirb allgemein gugeftanben, ba|3 bicjentgcn, bie bei nies 
brigcr ^emperatur fdjmel^cn, roie 23uttcr unb pftanjlid^e 
Oele, am leid;teften Don bcm jl'brpcvftjftem aufgenommen 
roerbcn. Wflan gtaubt, ha^ wix fogar 23ienenn)ad)§ vcxi 
baucn fi3nnten, raenn e§ im 3J^agen jerfd^mbljc. Obfdjon 
jebod^ "oie 33utter o(§ am leidjtcften Dcrbaulid) in aUges 
meiner 5ld;tung ftcl;t, meit fie ha^ fdjmacffjaftefte von ben 
^etten ift, fann ber 93^agen ol^ne ©djroierigfeit mit einer 
Derniinftigen Ouantitdt Don irgenb einera ^ett fcrtig roers 
hen, ha§ im ^au§l)alt beniit^t wivh, 

^iinftMe ^Butter ®^^ Xf;atfad;c, U^ alic gettc ein. 

5lun|tlid)e butter, ^^^^^^. .^ ^^^ 3ufammen[cl^ung fo 

dfjulid; finb, unb baf^ fie, iDenn erft einmal cerbaut, im 
itiirper alic bicfclben ®ienfte leiften, l^ot bie gorfd)er gus 
evft ju bem ^erfud;e gcfiiijrt, an§ BiUigcren %cttcn ©rs 
fat'.mittel fiir 33uttcr rjer^ufteHen. Napoleon III. fteUte 
ben (Jljemifcr 9}tege;3}ZDurier an bie 5Irbeit, bamit cr eine 
fiinfttid^e 33utter fiir ben ^(rmeegebraudj cvfinbe. liefer 
(Sljemifcr gab Olcin unb 9Jtargarin, bie cr au^ dlinh^nia 
renfctt au^gcjogen, bie im i'aboratorium Ijcrgeftellte 
garbe unb ben @efd)macf ber ©utter unb mengte ctmaS 



70 Artificial Butter, 

readily taken up by the system; it is thought that 
we could digest beeswax if it would melt in the 
stomach. Still, although butter stands in common 
estimation as the most digestible, as it is the most 
palatable of the fats, the stomach finds no trouble in 
disposing of reasonable amounts of any fat used in 
the household. 

The fact that all fats are so similar 

Artificial Butter. . ... 1,1, •» t 

m composition, and that, if once di- 
gested, they will do the same service in the body, 
first led scientists to try to make out of the cheaper 
fats a substitute for butter. It was Napoleon III 
who set the chemist Mege-Mourier at work to dis- 
cover an artificial butter for use in the army. This 
chemist added butter color and flavors made in the 
laboratory, to olein and margarin extracted from beef 
suet, and mixed with this a little real butter, and so 
successful was the result, that the making of artifi- 
cial butter has become a great industry. Now cer- 
tainly no one objects to artificial butter on the ground 
that it is made of animal fats, for he eats these every 
day on his table ; he objects because he has doubts as 
to the cleanliness or the healthfulness of its method 
of manufacture. 

Therefore since the substitution, to some extent, 
of animal fats for butter is from an economic stand- 
point so desirable, if we cannot bring ourselves to 
use oleomargarine we must do the best we can in 
these kitchen laboratories of ours to make other fats 
than butter acceptable to the taste. 



DertDenbung ftir ^ettc. 7\ 

wixUi<i)C 33utter bti, unb \)a^ er^iettc D^^efultat wax tin 
I'o ertolgreid)e5, ha^ hie ^erfertigung oon ^unftbutter 
cine grope ^nbuftrie geroorbcn ift. ©cgcnrodrtig [jat 
fidjer nicmanb me^r ctioa^ gcgen bie c^unftbutter ein^iu 
trenbcn, rceit fie aii^ tf)ierifd)cn gotten bereitet loitb, 
bciiii er geniept biefe ja jebeit 3^ag an feinem S^ifcbe; er 
erl)ebt bios (vinioaiib gegeii fie, n)ei( er ait ber ^einlicbs 
feit ober ©efunb^eit ber DJkt^oben bci i^rer 55erfertiguitg 
^iDeifelt. 

Xa ituit hi^ 5U eincm genjtffen@rabe biev^iibfiituirung 
tl^ierifc^er gette an (iteUe ber gutter Dont ofonoinifcben 
^tanbpunft betracf)tet, fo iDiinfdKnoiriertf) ift, miiffeit trir, 
icenn icir uit^ nid)t ^um @enu^ »on Cleotnargariit 
Derfte{)eit fonneit, itnfcr i>3efte^ in biefcn unferen Jfliid}enla5 
boratorien tf)un, inn anbere gette, al^ iButter, bein ©es 
jc^macf angene{;in 311 inadjen. 

3} e r 10 e n b 11 n g f ii r g e 1 1 e. 

JRinb^nierenfett. O^inbonierenfctt Ijat Dielerlei ^cn 

8eine 58erttjenb= menbungen. 9?tan fottte e^ Dofrfonts 
uug. men ffifc^ faufen unb ha^ bie 9tieren 

umgcbcnbe cU bie befte Cnalitcit Quoioafjlen. gein jer= 
Ijadt mirb eo in 9iicrenfett;'^nibbingen gebraud)t, nnb man 
jann eS and; oenoenben, nni anbere, mit abgeraf)mter 
3}tild; gemadite '4?ubbinge etma^ fetter 3U madden, luic 
5. 33. cReiopubbing; eo oerbinbet fid) fef)r gut mit iI^rob= 
irume in irgenb einem I)eif;en ©eridite, in S^rob^^'^nibbin^ 
gen, 33robfii(I[er, 33rob;CmeIetten unb ^uppcnflc3d)en. 
3n alien gcillen mu^ e^ fein jerbarft unb binliinglic^ 
gcfodjt merben, bamit co fid) mit ben anberen 9,^iaterialien 
ootlftcinbig rerforpert. 9tierenfett faun man and) hci 
rielen 9?h^I)Ifpeifen ftatt 33utter cerroenben, menu man fie 
nur lange genug fod)en Icifit unb fie luarm i^t; cbenfo in 
alien ^ludjen, in roeld)en 9JioIai"|e unb (>^eniiir5e ober 
anbere ftarfe @ei'd)nuufo;5^ei:iinittel ^.H-noenbung fmben. 
™ , J^ebco ^Mod)cn DJiarf in 5hiod)cn follte auoge= 

^^ ' frat^t unb forgfciltig oenuenbct loerben. ^i^in 



71 Uses of Fats. 

USES OF FATS. 

Beef Suet, Its Beef suet has many uses. It should be 
^^^^' bought perfectly fresh, that surround- 

ing the kidneys being chosen as of the best quality. 
Chopped fine, it is used in suet puddings, and may 
be employed to enrich other puddings made of skim 
milk, as a rice pudding; it combines well with 
bread crumbs in any hot dish, in bread puddings, 
bread stuffing, bread omelet and soup balls. In all 
cases it must be chopped fine and cooked sufficiently 
to fully incorporate it with the other materials. 
Suet may also be used in many flour dishes instead 
of butter, if they are only cooked long enough and 
eaten warm, also in all cake where molasses and 
spices or any strong flavor is used. 

Every bit of marrow in bones should 
be scraped out and carefully used. Its 
taste is more delicate than that of suet, and it can be 
substituted for butter even in fine cake. 

Whatever butter you use in cooking 

Butter tried out. , ,,, 77iij ^ • ^ i 

should be cooked butter which may be 
prepared when butter is cheaj^ and put away for 
winter use. So prepared it will keep as long as lard. 
A second quality of butter may be used for this, or 
that which is beginning to be rancid; if already so, 
add ^ teaspoon soda to each pound, but such butter 
when tried out will not keep as long as that made 
from sweet butter. In trying out butter great 
care must be taken not to burn it. Put it in a 
large iron kettle and cook it down very slowly until 
you no longer hear the sound of boiling ; it will then 
begin to froth and rise and this is a sure sign that 



^crcituncj von ^ette 3um *Kocf?en. 72 

(^e]d)mad ift belifoter als ber bes 9^iicrenfcttc§, unb man 
fann es felbft in feinen jtud)en ftatt Gutter uerraenbcn. 

5tu§gera[jene Sutter. . f '^ f"^ ®"^*5^ ^" ««^; ^eim 
Jlodjen cerrcenbcjt, [o [oUte es 
„(Sdjma r ^ bn 1 1 er" [cin, wdd)c man, raenn bie 33ut; 
tcr biai(^ iff, bcreitcn unb fiir ^Mntcxc^ebxaud) ouf^eben 
fann. So ^ubexdUt rairb fie fid; ebenfo kng ^aiten, roie 
Sd)n)einc[d;mar^ 

J^ur biefen i^rocd fann 23utter groeiter Cualitdt ober 
fo(d)c, rceldje ran^icj ^u raerben bec^innt, benufet roerben; 
ift fie biesbereits, fo ^ib einen3Sierte(5t(;ee(bffeIr)oa ©oba 
gujcbcm ^45funb, fD(d;e 23utter aber ratvb, luenn fie ausgc; 
lafien ift, fic^ nid;t fo (anqe l)altcn, rate aus fu^er gutter 
Derfertigte. 23eim yiuslaficn non Gutter muf^ forgfaltig 
ndjtgcf^eben raerbcn, ha]^ fie nid)t onbrennt. fringe fie 
in eincn Q,vom, eifcrncn jtcffel nnb fodje fie (angfam, 
bis Xu fienidjt meljr fieben prft; fie fdnc^t bann an ^u 
fd)dumen unb ^u fteigen, unb bies ift ein fic^eres „Bei(^en, 
ban bog ^erfafjren Doaftdnbiq i\t. (gtelie hen Sie\]el 
gum 2(bfiil)(en ein paar ^^(uqenMirfe guriirf, fc^dume ab 
unb giene bie ©utter von bem ©obenfnli ab in bie .^dfen. 
^atte fie an eincm fii^ten ^^Ua^e unb bidjt gugebedt^ ^\n 
irc^cnb einem ^iegepte benu^e {- raeniqer' a(s frifd)e 
©utter. ' ^ 

5lu|flelaffene§ ^iefe§ foate mit nod; nrbnerer ©org; 

Jfierenrett. ^ait (^cmadjt rcerben, bamit ber Zalc^c^ec 
fdjmad cermieben rairb. (^enaue ^itnmeifunc^en finb 
qcgcben in „.?ioc^met(;oben" e. 41. :3:ie „(V3rieben" 
mcrbcn oft non ^tinbern fct;r c^ern gc(]cffen. 

Zic]i:<6 rctnbsfett (ba§ mir nid;t Xaic^ ncnncn moaen) 
fotlte in ©aUen in einem hid)t t)erfd)(of)enen ^afen aufqe= 
Ijobcn rcerben. 

Sertoenbuna. ?'J ^'''"^^* ©erraenbunq fc^abc es fein 

unb jtreue em mcniq '>md)i barunter, nm 

es mciH g" ^aftcn. So i^ubereitet fann man eo auf 

trgenb dm ber unter ,/J?ierenfett" angcgebcnen Ul^cifen 



72 Preparation of Fats for Coohing. 

the process is completed. Set the kettle back to cool 
a few moments, then skim and pour off the butter 
from the dregs into jars. Keep in a cool place and 
closely covered. In any recipe use \ less than of fresh 
butter. 

This should be done with even more 
care, to avoid the tallowy flavor. Exact 
directions are given in *' Cooking Methods," page 41. 
The *^ scraps" are often relished by children. 

This beef fat (which we decline to call tallow) 
should be put away in cakes in a jar closely covered. 
To use it, scrape it fine, sprinkling a 
little flour in it to keep it light. So 
prepared it may be used in any of the ways mentioned 
under "suet," and to this list still others may be 
added, since it does not need, as does suet, long cook- 
ing in order to mix it well with the other ingredients 
of the dish. It can be used successfully in warm 
breads of all kinds, and in all but the nicest cakes 
if mixed with -J butter. 

Much of the lard now furnished is so 
poor, that unless one pays a high price 
to a well known dealer, it is better for each house- 
keeper to buy the leaf lard and try it out herself. 

Cut fine and cook all the water out, taking care not 
to burn. 

The " scraps" are even better than those left from 
suet and should by no means be thrown away. 

SAUCES FOR MEAT A^T> VEGETABLES. 

The economical and busy housewife says she has no 
time nor money for sauces, but the fact is she cannot 
afford to do without them. 



Saucen. 73 

Bcitul^en, unb 511 ber £tfte bcrfelben fonnen noc^ anbere 
Beigefiigt raerben, ba e^ nidjt, rcic bag ^^ierenfett, long ^u 
fo(i)eit braudjt, urn fic^ mit ben anbeven Qngrebienjien 
be§ ©eridjtcggut^uDcimengen. 9D^an fanned 511 rcarmem 
33rob alter 2lrt erfolgreirf) benul^cn unb and) in alien, 
auger ben [d^onften j^uc^en, raenn eg ^ur .gialfte mit 33ut; 
ter gcmengt i}t. 

ScfiweinefcfimQU ^^^^'^ ©c^roeinef^malj, trie e§ 

ejOiwemeic^mQia. ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ geliefert rairb, ift fo 

fd^ledjt, ha^ ^au§^alter, raenn fie nid;t eincm raoljlbe? 
fannten .gdnbler einen Ijoljen ^reig Be^al;len raoUen, befs 
fer baran t^un, raenn [ieunauggelaffeneg (Sc^raeinefc^malj 
itaufen unb e§ fel6ft auSlaffen. 

^erfc^ncibe eg fcin unb ficbe alles 2Sa[[er l^eraug, rcos 
Bet 3)u 5Idjt gebcn tnufjt, bo|3 eg nid;t anbrennt. 

®ie „@rie6en" finb nod) beffer, alg hie von D^ierens 
fett iibrig bleibenben unb foUten unter feinen Umftdnbeit 
raeggetDorfen raerben. 

©aucen fiir gletfd^ unb ©etuiife. 

®ie fparfame unb gefd^dftige ^augfrau Bel^auptet, 
feine ^dt unb fcin ©elb fiir ©nucen gu f)a'bcn, altein 
X^ai\a(!i)e ift, ha\^ fie nid;t oljne fie fertig tDerbcn f ann. 

5llle QSegetabilicn tniiffen etraag gett ^ur ,f)cBung beg 
@efd)ina(feg ^bcn, unb in jebemgaHe 33uttcr gu gcbraus 
d^en, iDare tJerfdiraenberifc^ unb wiirbe auc^ feine ^Ibs 
tued^glung geben, tt)dl;rcnb Billigereg gctt tnit Tle^l unb 
SSaffer 3U einer ©auce oerarBeitet auf ein ©u^enb Slrten 
gefd^madreijenb gemadjt raerben fann. 

£raftButter=(3auce. 

SDic 33utterfauce, it)etd;e hie ©runblage bcr ineiften 
©aucen Bilbet, roirb in folgenbcr 2Bci|'e Bereitet. 

(^in gel;dufter (?§tof_fer 23utter unb 9tinbg. 
in]aq. ^^^^ ^^.^.^ .^^ ^1^^^ 23ratpianne gctljan; wenn eg 

fodi)t, gibt man einen ge^duften \?i3ffeluotl ^etjii^n unb riil)rt 
eg Beim ^od)en urn. .^ierju giBt man nad) unb nac^ ein $t. 
13 



73 Sauces, 

All vegetables must have some fat to season them 
and to use butter in every case is extravagant and 
gives no variety, while a cheaper fat if made into a 
sauce with flour and water, can be flavored in a dozen 
ways. 

DRAW3Sr BUTTER SAUCES. 

Drawn butter, which is the foundation oi most of 
the sauces is thus made. 

A heaping tablespoon of butter or beef 
Plain. £^|. |g ^^^ -^1.^ ^ saucepan; when it boils, 

1 heaping tablespoon flour is added and stirred as it 
cooks. To this add gradually 1 pt. of water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and \ teaspoon of pepper. If you wish to 
unite economy and good flavor use -J tablespoon of 
beef fat in making the sauce, and add ^ tablespoon 
butter, cut in little pieces, just before serving. 

Milk sauce is the same, made with milk instead of 
water. 

In hrown sauce, the fat and flour are stirred till 
they brown, then make as above. 

Any number of sauces can be made from these 
three by adding different flavors; chopped pickles and 
a tablespoon vinegar are added to No. 1 when it is to 
be used on fish; or mustard for mustard sauce. 

The addition of eggs raw or cooked makes another 
variety. 

With the help of milk we can make 

Milk gravies. . ,, .,, „ . ,-, , „ 

a gravy as m *'milk sauce, with beei 
or pork fat, seasoning with salt and pepper and per- 
haps some powdered herb. 

Children like all these gravies, if nicely made and 
flavored, to eat on bread as well as on vegetables. 
7 



Sauccn. 7'k 

2Baffer, eirtcn ^^celoffer voU ©alj unb ^ X(;ee(offeI uoll 
^feffer. 3Si(( man ©parfamfeit unb guten ©efcf)macf 
uereinigen, fo benu^e mnn einen I^alben ^(jeeloffel uoU 
DftinbSfett gur 23ercitung ber @auce unb gibt einen (5^? 
loffel doH 53utter in fleine (BtMd)cn 5ev|rf)nitten unmit? 
telbar oor ^cm 2lnrid)ten ^u. 

SfJlildjfauce ift bagfelbe, bloS bag fie mit 9J^irc^ 
ftatt Staffer gemac^t rairb. 

3n brauner (Sauce trerben gett unb SO^ef;! um^ 
geriil;rt, big fte brann finb, bann uerfa^ve man rcie oben. 

5lu§ biej'en S)reien f ann man burd) ^^S^^^^ uerfd^iebener 
©eroiirje dm ganje ^In^at;^ ©aucen bereiten; gefjacfte 
©urfen unb ein (Sgloffel ooll (5ffig raevben ^u 9*^0. 1 ^m 
gegeben, raenn man fie ju f^ifc^ gebraud)t, ober @enf jur 
©enffauce. 

®ie 3iig(^^c Don @iern, rol^ ober gefod^t, gibt eine ans 
bere 3(bn)cc^§lung. 
TO(^=f5ett* 9J^it .gitfe Don Mild) fbnncn mix eine gett? 

faucen j-Quce mit ^inbg; ober ©(iiraeinefett, raie bet 
ber Wild)\ancc madden, roobei mx mit ©alj unb ^feffer 
unb ciedeic^t mit puloerifirten ilrdutern raiirjen. 

jtinber effen bieje gettfaucen gern, menu fie gut bereitet 
unb geroilrjt finb, auf 33rob unb @emii[e. 

gleifd^faucen. 

(Sinige billige ©aucen jum Sleifd^ aHetn cerbtenen Ibes 
fonbere 5Iufmerf[amfeit. 

Wiin.'Sauce ^ Wo^ ^oU grune mixnic ober 

Mun^^^anct. grauenmiinge ge^cft, einen C^B^offer 
roll ^"cf^i^/ i "^o-We (Sffig. Wi\d)c unb lag eine ober jroei 
©tunben ftel;cn. 

^arabie§apfe^(Sauce. ^iehc 1 ^int frijd^e ober fons 

(Xomato.) feroirte ^arabieSdpfci; mit einer 

!leinen ^n^iebel, ©at^ unb ^Biirjfrdutern, bi§ e^ gan^ bid 
mirb; bann feil)e burd) unb gib einen ^f;eeloffet ooU 
Mc\)l 3U, ha^ in einem ^l^eeloffel voU 33utter gefod)t ift. 



74 Sauces, 

MEAT SAUCES. 

A few cheap sauces for meats alone deserve special 

mention. 

2 tablespoons green mint or spear mint 
Mint sauce. chopped, 1 tablespoon sugar, i cup 
vinegar. Mix and let stand an hour or two. 

Boil 1 pt. fresh or canned tomatoes 
oma o sauce. ^^^^^ ^ little onion, salt, and herb flavor- 
ing until quite thick, then strain and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of flour cooked in a teaspoonful of butter. 

Any sour fruit, as apples or plums, 
makes an excellent sauce to eat with 
meat. Apple sauce goes especially well with pork. 
Horseradish ^^d to drawn butter or any meat 

sauce. gravy -J cup grated horseradish. Sim- 

mer a few minutes. 



'Kokknliy^bvate entl^altcnbc Spcifcn unb il^rc Bercitung. 75 
Dbftmug. ^i^'^'"^ f?^*^^ ^^^ "'ie ^Tepfer ober 

^1'" .""'i ^x'^"^^- 5Ipfermug etgnet fic§ am beften ^u 
©c^roeineflei[c§. ' ^ 

arJeerrettig^ajJuS. . ®^^^5ii 33utterfauce ober irgenb 

emer ^reifc^fouce } ^^eetaffe oott 
gernebenen ^meerretttg. 2a^ einige aj^inuten retcfit 
focfien. ^ 



mitt^l 

unb i^re 33erettung. 



3Btf l^aBen nun bem ^orper bie britte grr)§e ^afir= 
ungSgrunblage ju riefcrn, bie ^of)kni)r)hxatc. 2)iefe 
meinen rair, raenn roir t)on ©tdrfme^len unb ^ucfer [pre= 
c^en, unb fie rcerben mit unhehcutenhcn STugna^men BloS 
au§ ber ^flan^enroelt geliefert. 

(Bellftoff.) j^orper, ber ^eaftoff, ^ier eine gro§e ^oh 
'^^cxidhc t|t fo 3U fagen ha§ ©felett ber ^^fanjen, ba§ fie 
fic^ an^ 3ucfer unb ©tarfme^I aufbauen; ®er (Srjcmifer 
finbet e§ in feinem :2a6oratorium nic^t fd;rt)ierig, i^n n)ie= 
ber in ^ertrin unb ^ucfer aurud^uuernjanbern, unb an* 
unfer SJJagen fann ein gut Z^eil ^eUftoff Don feljr jungen 
unb aarten ^flanaen oerbauen,— 47— 62 ^roa., wie man 
gefunben ^ot, oon jungcm 2atti6), ©eUerie, ^oi)l unh 
gelben dinhen, aber in cilteren ^ffanaen huxd)xvad)ft unb 
oerfruftet fid) ber eigentlidje ^eHftoff mit ©ubftanaen oon 
l^olaartiger unb minerali[d;er mtnv, von wdd)en ihn 
and) ber g^emifer nur mit ber gro§ten ©c^mierigfeit au 
trennen t)ermag, mcif^renb unfere «erbanung§[a[te biefer 
5lufgabe gana unb gar nidjt gemac^fcn finb. ^hig biefem 
©runbe Beborf eS ber ganaen Jl^nnft ber .ft'od;in Bei ber 
iBer;anbrung biefer ©ubftana; fie mug fie aufraei^en 



CAEBOHTDEATE - COISTTAINI^G 
FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We are now to furnish for tlie body the third great 
food principle, the carbohydrates. These we mean 
when we speak of the starches and sugars, and with 
unimportant exceptions, they are furnished by the 
vegetable world only. 

As we have seen, that troublesome 
body, cellulose, plays here a large role. 
It is the skeleton, so to speak, of plants, built by them 
out of sugar and starch; the chemist finds no diffi- 
culty in his laboratory in turning it back into dextrin 
and sugar, and our stomachs too can digest a large part 
of the cellulose of very young and tender plants, — 
from 47^ to 62^ it has been found, of young lettuce, 
celery, cabbage and carrots, — but in older plants, the 
cellulose proper becomes all intergrown and encrusted 
with substances of a woody and mineral nature, from 
which even the chemist separates it with the greatest 
difficulty, while our digestive juices are entirely un- 
equal to the task. Therefore it is that the whole art 
of the cook is needed in treating this substance; she 
must soften it, she must break it up, and in many 
cases separate it as completely as possible from the 
sugars, starches and proteids which it hinders us from 
appropriating to our use. 

75 



(tcflulofc. 7g 

aufbred^en unb in Dtclen paeit fo coaftdnbig, trie moq= 
Iic^ oon ben ^ucferftoffen, ©tdrfme^ren unh ^roteinfor= 
pern tvennen, an bereii 3uuul^emad;ung fie un^ f;inbert. 

^erttjenbunq. • *^ manc^en gdacn, xvie Bet ber ^afer. 
griil^ unb bem @va^am=a)k^l, loffen 
tt)ir ben ^eaftoff raegen feiner med;ani[c^en ©intcirfung 
auf bie ©ingeroeibe. ^ie§ tft natiirlic^ ein Der[d;n)enbe= 
rifc^cg 33er[a(jren, benn ber ^eHftoff nimmt, tuenn er ben 
^orper Derldgt, giemlic^ Diet iinoerbaute 9?ar;rung mit fid), 
aaetn e§ ift beffer, foldje 35er|d;raenbung 511 treiBen, atg 
unfeven (Singeraeibcmugfelu [0 raenig 511 tljitn 311 gcben, 
bog fie unfd^ig raerben, anbere alg feine, fonbenfirte 
©peifen 311 uerbauen. 

3u ber 3^egel jebod) ntiiffen rair un§ ben3eaftoff burc^; 
aug nid;t olg 9hUjrung§mittet Dorfteaen, fonbern alg 
einen gd^en, frembeu tiirper, mit hem mix ju rec^nen ^a= 
Ben, e^e roir ung hie ^rotein^ unb @tdr!mef)rt^eilc^en 
oteler raid^tigen ^ffanjennaljrungginittel gunu^e mad)en 
fonnen» 

Ouontitat ber ^o^Ien. <^ie ^o^knl^Dbrate, 6e[onber§ hie 
I)i;brate. ©tdrfme^le, finb hie hilUQften un= 

ter ben 9^dl;rbeftanbt^ei(en nub ba^er am Ijdufigften, Bes 
fonberg in ber 9^af;rung be§ airmen tin UeBerflu^ t)or= 
^anben. 9^ac^ ben BereitS gegeBenen ©c^dt^ungen fommt 
ein @rn)ad)[ener mit fc^toerer ^urc^f^nittgarBeit ganj 
^uBfc^ mit li^fb. £o^renl;r)bratftoffen an^^ ([erBftuerftdnb^^ 
lid) ift hamit hie Ouantitdt biefeS ©toffcg in trodenem 
3uftanbe gemeint), oBfd;on fid; gliidlic^erroeife finbet, roie 
unter ben „g e 1 1 e n" errodljnt murbe, ha^ ein Zijeil hie-^ 
fer groj^en Ouantitdt gegen ^ett au§(^etau\d)t rcerben 
^ann, wenn hex ^'orper fur hie\e§ auS irgenb einem 
@runbe Beffere S^erraenbung 'i)at. 5?opfarBeiter unb hie 
retd^eren (Jloffen ber gan3en 2Kelt ncf^men raeniger £of;; 
len^pbrote, menigftcnS in hex gorm von ®tdrfmef;len, ju 
fid^ unb mefjr ^roteinfiirper unh %eite. 
3n[ofern rair biefe ilol;lenI;t)brate aug bem ^fianjpns 



76 Cellulose. 

In some cases, as in oatmeal and gra- 
ham flour, we leave the cellulose because 
of its mechanical action on the bowels. To be sure, 
this is a wasteful process, for the cellulose carries with 
it when it leaves the body considerable undigested 
food, but better this waste than to give the muscles 
of our intestines so little work to do that they be- 
come unable to digest any but fine, condensed foods. 

As a rule, however, we must think of cellulose 
not as a food at all, but as a tough, foreign body 
which we must reckon with before we can utilize the 
proteid and starch particles of many important vege- 
table foods. 

Amount of The Carbohydrates, especially the 

Carbohydrate, starches, are the cheapest of the food 
constituents and therefore most apt to be in excess, 
especially in the food of the poor. According to 
estimates already given, an adult at average hard work 
gets along nicely with 1\ lbs. of carbohydrate mate- 
rial (meaning, of course, the dry amount of this one 
principle), though fortunately, as mentioned under 
*^Fats," it is found that some of this large amount 
can be exchanged for fat, if the body, for any reason 
can better use the latter. Brainworkers and the 
richer classes the world over take less of carbohy- 
drates, at least in their starch form, and more pro- 
teids and fats. 

Inasmuch as we get these carbohydrates from the 
vegetable kingdom, and because the housewife must 
furnish them combined with other princijoles as in 
bread and other things made of flour, and in various 
dishes in which vegetables are combined with meat, 



t)erbaultcf?fett bcr p^an^Vidien Hal^rungsmittcln. 77 

reidje er§a(ten, unb auc^ n)ei( bie .giausfrau fie in 55er. 
binbung mit anberen Df^aljrungsgrunblageu licfcrn mu^, 
roie in ^rob unb ani)eren am Mdji bereitetcn Xingen, 
unb in Derfd^iebenartigcn 05eri(^ten, in raelc^cn ^flan^en 
mit i^iciid), Wild), (5iern u[n). ocrbunbcn [inb, raoUen 
iDir nic^t mef)r Don Jlo§(en§^braten aH [ofc^en fprec^en 
unb nun einige 2Stnfe bariiber ge6cn, loie ^flan^enfpeii'en 
fo gu bereiteu finb, ha}^ wix ben gro^ten DZu^en am i§nen 
jie^en fiinnen, n)o6ei roir uu^ jebod) baran erinnern vooU 
Un, roa§ barubcr gefagt raurbe, ha^ wix biefe OJrunbfage 
nic^t in einer ^usbe^nung anraenben foKen, raeW)e hie 
Gingeraeibe ]d)mddi)t, 

S3i§ 5u trelrf)er 9Iug= Xies [ii^rt uns erft ^u ber Unters 
bef)nung fie t)er= fuc^ung iiber hie atlgemeine 35erbaus 
bant toerben. i;icf)feit ber gan^en (itaffe con pflan^^ 

(ic^en D^cafjrungsmitteln, rcorunter mix nid)t hie '^Sc^neUigs 
feit unb and) nid)t bie :^eid)tigfeit, fonbern hie Slusbe^ns 
ungcerftetjen, bis ^u raeld^er bie Df^a^rung^grunblage an 
un§ iiberge^t. Wan l^at gefunben, ha^ pflan^tirfjc 
9^a^rungsmittel, mie fie gen)i)(;n(ic^ ^ubereitet roerben, 
^ — ^ raeniger Don i^ren D'^d^rbeftanbt^eilen an uns abge- 
ben, a(§ t^ierifd;e 9caf)rung, unb bics gi(t gan^ befonbers 
Don ]oid)en, hie reid) an ^roteinforpern finb. ^ux ^iiiui 
ftrirung: ein SIrbeiter ij^t ein ©eric^t gefocf;ter i8of;nen 
a(g "Jtijeii feincr ^JJittagsma^l^eit; aUcin abfrfjon er mit 
dled)t gtaubt, ba§ er tin naf)rI;Qfte§ 05eric^t gcgeffen, l^at 
er in ^ai)xi)eit bto§ 60 ^roj. Don ben (iticfftoffbeftanb? 
ti)eiien in fid) aufgenommen, hie e§ ent^iett, hie anberen 
40 ^ro^. getjen nut3tos Don it)m, meii fxe auf§ innigfte 
mit bem 3^liftoff Dcrbunben finb; hie^ max raenigftens bei 
^rof. (Striimpell ber %ali, raetdjer bie dle]uitate perfon; 
ticker (^rperimente iiber bie ^erbau(id;feit gan^ gefod)ter 
33o()nen auf^eid)net. dlun Ijat abex biefer 2(rbeiter Don 
ben gfeif(^beftanbt§ei(en feiner SJ^ittagsmaf^f^eit 97^ 
^ro^. Derbaut, unb biefe 53erg(ei(^ung /jeigt ba^er, mie 
fe^r bie gd^eren (Morten bes ^^^f^^fts hie 2(bforbirung ber 
9^af)rung5beftanbt§eile, hie fie einfci^lie^en, beeintrddjtigen. 



77 Digestibility of Vegetable Foods. 

milk, eggs, etc., we will cease speaking of carbohy- 
drates as such, and will give a few hints as to how to 
prepare vegetable foods so that we can get the most 
out of them, bearing in mind, however, what has been 
said about not following out this principle to the ex- 
tent of weakening the bowels. 

To what extent This leads us, first, to examine the 
digested. general digestibility of the whole class 

of vegetable foods; meaning by this, not the rapid- 
ity nor the ease, but the exterit to which the nutritive 
principle is yielded up to us. It has been found that, 
as usually prepared, vegetable foods give up to us 
from ^ to -| less of their nutrients than do animal 
foods, and especially is this true of those that are rich 
in proteids. To illustrate: a workman eats as part 
of his dinner a dish of boiled beans, but though he 
rightly considers that he has been eating a nourishing 
dish, he has really absorbed only 60^ of the nitrogen- 
ous substances contained in it, the other 40^ passing 
from him unused because of its intimate connection 
with the cellulose; at least this was the case with 
Prof. Striimpell who records the result of personal 
experiments on the digestibility of beans cooked whole. 
Now this workman digested of the meat part of his 
dinner 97^^, and this comparison shows how the 
tougher kinds of cellulose interfere with the absorp- 
tion of the food matters which they enclose. 

The starch part of vegetable food we seem to get 
out much better than the proteid part, even with our 
ordinary methods of cooking; thus out of cooked 
rice we get almost 99^ of the starch, but only SOfo of 
what proteid it contains; flour in the form of noodles 



$(^attcnfcite cincr pflan^znbiat 78 

^ie (Biaxhnd)ltl)ciU ber pflanjlidjen ''ftaljxunq^ fdjctnen 
tDtr ctc( Bcfi'cr \)cvau^ubdommcn, al^ bie ^roteintljetle, 
felbft ki uufercn gctui)I;nlid}cn Jloci^metl}obeii;aug get'oc^; 
tern 9^cig ev(;alten rair fo faft 99 ^roj. bc§ ©tdrfme^lg, 
aBer nur 80 ^^ro^. bc§ ^rotetn^, bag er entljatt; Wlc^ in 
gorm von ytnhcln unb 9Jtacaroni§ gibt 98|- ^ro^. feineS 
(£tdr!mcl;l§ a6, unb 80 ^rog. feineg (5itt)ei^e§; — inform 
won ^rob ron jebcnt nod; etiuaS iDcniger. 3)ie £artoffe( 
gi6t un§ nur 75 ^ro^. con bem tuenigen protein, bag fie 
entfjiilt, abcr 16t§ ^u 92.5 ^roj. tf)rc§ ©tdrfmel^lg. 
SBirfung bon gu Obf^on ^ bie ftdrfmer;Ujaltigen 

t)iel ©tdrfmef)! ©peij'en biHig finb unb cinen grofjcn 
inber3)idt. ^rosentfal^ biefer D^al^rgrunblage ah 

geben, barf man fie au§ folgenbem ©runbe nidjt im 
Ueberma^ :)ertt)enben. 3)a§ ©tdrhnetjl mug erft burc^ 
unfere S^erbauung^fdfte in ^ndcv Denoanbelt raevben, elfje 
e§ in ha^ 33lut aufgcnommcn roerben fann, unb menu 
bem 3!)^agen mcfjr baoon auf einmal gcgeben tcirb, alg er 
gu bemeiftern oermag, fo finben geroiffe ©dl^rungen ftatt, 
unb hie 3)crbauung mirb baburc§ beeinflugt. S^ie beften 
^lutorttdten erfldren, ha^ ganj oljne ^wei^d fortgefe^te, 
fd^mere ^^mrdifdde bei !Ieincn £inbern t)on ber @d^rung 
ber ftdrfmeljl^ltigcn (Bpeiien ^erriil;rcn, fiir raelc^e iljre 
55erbauung§organe nod) ntd)t geetgnet finb. 

S)ie[e @dr;rungcn, bie reijenbe 2Bir!ung einer gu 
grogcn 9D2cnge gcQftoff auf bie (Singetueibe, unb ber 35er= 
luft einc§ gvof^en 2^f}cil§ con ^roteinftoffen, bie mit i^m 
oerbunbcn finb, bilben hie ®d;attcn[cite eincr ^fian^en? 
hiat ©elbft ber Odjfe mit feinen oiclen DJcdgcn erbdlt 
an^ ®ra§ unb un^erljadtem ^en nur 60 ^ro^. be§ ^ro^ 
tein§ unb 50 ^roj. beg getteg, bag barin entl;aUen ift. 

^flanjlidje ^roteinforper. 

©elbft in unferem SSeUtl^eil merben ^roet !j)rittel ber 
^roteinnal^rung von hen meifien Seuten bem ^ftanjen; 
reic^e entnommen, unh urn unfere Df^a^rung mit ©crainn 
augfud^en ju fonnen, miiffen mir raiffen, mo mir pflan3> 



78 The Shady Side of Vegetable Diet. 

and macaroni yields up 98|^ of its starch and 80^ of 
its albumen, — in the form of bread a little less of each. 
The potato will give us only 75^ of what little pro- 
teid it contains, but as high as 92.5^ of its starch. 
Effect of too Although the starch-containing foods 

much starch are clicap and although they yield up a 

in the diet. -, i. £ j.j • x -i.- • • 

good per cent oi this nutritive princi- 
ple, they must not be used to excess for the following 
reason. Starch must first be turned into sugar by our 
digestive juices before it can be taken up into the 
blood, and if the stomach is given more at a time 
than it can master, certain fermentations may take 
place, and digestion be influenced. The best author- 
ities say that without doubt the continued and severe 
diarrheas of small children are due to the fermenta- 
tion of starch foods for which their digestive organs 
are not yet ready. 

These fermentations, the irritating action on the 
bowels of too much cellulose, and the loss of a good 
deal of proteid substance connected with it form the 
shady side of a vegetable diet. Even the ox with his 
many stomachs gets out of grass and unchopped hay 
only 60^ of the proteid and 60fo of the fat contained 
in it. 

VEGETABLE PROTEIDS. 

Even in our part of the world two thirds of the 
proteid food of most people is taken from the vege- 
table kingdom, and in order to choose our food prof- 
itably, we must know where to look for vegetable 
proteids, and how to fit them for eating. Here the 
cereals and the legumes are our friends, the former 
furnishing from 7 to 14^ in their dried state, the lat- 



(Sctrctbcfriid^tc 79 

lic^e ^rotctnftoffe ftnben, unb rote mix [ie fo(^c-n fonneu, 
urn fie jum ^[[en taugCic^ ju madden. §ier ftnb bie (Se= 
treibes unb .giutfenfruc^te unfere greunbe, tnbcm bie 
erfteren un§ V — 14 ^rojent in i()rem trocfenen ^nftaube 
Hefern, rod^^renb bie le^teren Vie erftaunlid^e S^\\ev von 
20 — 24 ^rojent ergeBen; ober gerabe [ooiel, me }^lei\(i), 

©etreibefriid^ te. 

^te ^exealien ober ©etreibefriic^te finb un§, obfc^on 
pe viel roeniger protein entr^alten, al§ bie .giiitfenfriid^te, 
tbert^ooCer raegen i§re§ corjiiglidjen ©efc^macfeg, i^rer 
leid^teit (Jrreic^barfeit fiir ben ^oc^ nnh ber :^eici^tigfeit, 
toomit fie un§, roenn fie jermaljlen finb, iljve 9^a^rung§; 
beftanDtI)ei(e abgeben. 

©a hie ©etreibefriic^te fo tt)i(f)tige 9^a^rung§mittel 
ftnb, rcirb Ijier eine '^abeUe beigefiigt, raeld^e hen burc^^ 
fdjuittlic^en ?fieid)tf)um hex bet un§ in allgemeinem ©e? 
iraudje befinblic^en an 9ia§rung§grunblagen angibt. 
2Bir finben, ba^ hie Der[d^iebenenHnah)[enber[el6en @e; 
treibeart Don einanber abraeidjen, @erfte ^. 33. rangirt 
gn)if(^en 8 unb 18 ^rojent in iljxem ^roteingeI;aIt, unb 
bie§ erflart e§, toenn eine ©etreibeart in bem einenSanbe 
popular ift, in einem anberen nid^t. 

SSir in unferem :2anbe finb ganj befonber§ gUicflic^ 
«» • *. on <f^* betreff§ ber ©iUigfeit unb ^or. 

SBetsen unb 2BeIfc^!orn. ^^^^^^^^^ ,,,, toenigftenS at.ei 

©etreibeforten, '^ei^en unb SBelfc^fovn. 3)ie erftere 

befil^t uatiirlic^ t'iet i^of)eren 9^a^rraertf;, atiein hie let^tere 

tft fo biUig unb laf^t fid) fo (ei^t !od)en, ha^ fie einen 

(Segen fiir hen airmen bitbet. ®er grof^e ^rojcntfa^ an 

protein forool^t, wie an gctt im .g^fci* ^f^ ^^' 

^°'^^* mer!en§n)ert^, treit er hie fjofje 5ld;tnng rcd)ts 

fertigt, in hex ex jel^t bei ung ftcfit. ®a§ anbere ^rtrcm ift 

. ber D^ieig, unter aUen ©etreibearten, bie (irmfte 

^^^' an biefen beibcn ^Zdfjrgrunbfagen; fcine voUi 

fomtnene 3SerbauUd)feit jcbod) madjt iijn fef;r niitaid;. 



79 Grains. 

ter giving the astonishing figure of 20 to 24,^; or as 
much as meat. 

GRAINS. 

The cereals or grains, though containing much less 
proteid than the legumes, are more valuable to us 
because of their excellent taste, their availability to 
the cook and the readiness with which when ground 
they yield us their nutrients. 

Since the grains are such important foods, a table 
is appended showing the average richness in food 
principles of those in common use among us. We 
find that different analyses of the same grain differ 
greatly from one other, barley for instance, ranging 
from 8 to 18^ in its proteid, and this may account for 
a certain grain being popular in one country and not 
in another. 

In our country we are especially fortunate in the 

cheapness and excellence of at least two of the grains, 

Wheat and In- Wheat and Indian Corn. The first 

dian Corn. has of coursc much higher food value, 

but the latter is so cheap and can be so easily cooked 

that it is a blessing to the poor. The large per cent 

of both proteids and fat in oats is to be 

noted, justifying as it does, the high 

esteem in which they are now held among us. At the 

other extreme is rice, the poorest of the 

grains in both these principles, but its 

almost perfect digestibility renders it very useful. 



51nalyfe ber (Sctrctbcartcn. so 



Slnal^fe ber ©etreibe -g S i S § ^ ^ 

arten. o § ^ ^Jo *«" £- 

^ro5. ^4Sro5. ^ros. ^rog. ^rog. 

geirteS ^ei^enmel)l. . . . 10. 1.0 75.2 13. 0.3 

Df^oggenme^t 11.5 2. 69.5 14. 1.5 

©evftengraupen 11. 1.5 71.5 15. 0.5 

^afergrii^t 14.5 6.0 65. 10. 2.5 

Sud^roetjenme^jl 9.5 2. 72.5 14. 1» 

^c^.. 10.15 4.80 68.45 14. 2.6 

dtei^Uxnex 8. 1. 76.5 13. 0.5 

3 u cf e r. 

^te meiften 2cuie Hafftftciren ben ^udex unter bie 
Surugartifet, unb tl)ai\ad)li^ fennen wix il)n am kften 
in ^Berbtnbungcrt rate mit griic^ten, (Stern, gutter uno 
Derfc^tebenen feiirjftoffen, raelcf)e, rate 5|3ubbtnge, ^aftes 
ten, ^'ud^en, ^a^mtoxten u[n). unferen ©effert^Spetfejets 
tel auSmad^en. 

«j^^ ,^ ^a§ aBer, urn raa§ rafr un§ am erften 

jfagrroerrg. ^efiimmern raiiffen, ift fetn ^(ifjrraertfj. (Fr 
crgt6t iinSbte f;of;e S^\U^ i^on 99 ^ro^. ber britten 9^al); 
rungSgrnnblage — JlD(;(enl^t}brate. SDn§ t;ei^t, er mu§ 
in ber Stfte nckn ha§ S3rob gefteUt nnb fann big ^u ge? 
raiffem @rabe an ©telle von 23rob nnb anberen ftdr!tne|(i 
l^aitigen 9iaf;rnng§mitteln gefcl^t raerben. 5hifjerbetn ift 
er noc^ ganj befonberS ^nm ^Zaljrunggmittel geeignet, rao 
unuerraeitt 9^al)rnng gebrauc^t rairb, raeit er faft 
ebenfo fdjnell, raie SSaffer, nnb t)f;ne ben 3Serbannng§or; 
ganen 3umutljungen gu marf)en cerbant ober in ben Or^ 
gani§mn§ aufgcnomnten rairb, unb an§ biefem @rnnbe 
ift ciedeic^t fein SSerbrand) in nnfcrem :?anbe ein fo ftnr; 
!er. 2Bir lebcn rafd) nnb raottcn nnfere 3^a(;rnng in 
fonbenfirter gorm f)ahcn, 

2Begen feineS ^reifeg aber unb raeit rair il)n b(o§ in 



80 Analysis of Grains. 

CO CO (u 

Analysis of -53 | ^ "g ,2 ^ 

Grains. o p^ ^'5 



O >^ 



03 ^ 



Fine Wheat Flour 10. 1.0 75.2 13. 0.3 

Eye Flour 11.5 2. 69.5 14. 1.5 

Barley Grits 11. 1.5 71.5 15. 0.5 

Oat Grits 14.5 6.0 65. 10. 2.5 

Buckwheat Flour 9.5 2. 72.5 14. 1. 
Corn or Maize 

Flour 10.15 4.80 68.45 14. 2.6 

Rice Grains 8. 1. 76.5 13. 0.5 

SUGARS. 

Most peoj)le would class sugar among the luxuries, 
and indeed we are best acquainted with it in those 
combinations with fruit, eggs, butter, and various 
flavoring matters, which, as puddings, pies, cakes, 
custards, etc., make up our dessert list. 

Our first concern, however, is with its 
food value. It gives us the high figure 
of 99^ of the third food principle, — Carbohydrates. 
That is, it must be put in the list with bread and it 
can be used to a certain extent instead of bread and 
other starch foods. Moreover, it is especially fitted 
for a food in cases where nourishment is needed im- 
mediately, as it is digested or absorbed into the sys- 
tem almost as quickly as water and without taxing 
the digestive organs, and perhaps on this account is its 
consumption so great in our country; we live fast, 
and we want our nutriment in a condensed form. 

But on account of its cost and because we are able 



trtdgtgcr Ouantitat auf cinmal ju un§ ju ne^men oermo; 

gen, !ann ber S^^*-'^ ^^^^)^ ^" grof^cm 3J^aJ3fta6e bie ^Stelle 

be§ ©tarfme()lg certreten; tcir miifjen iljn I)aupt[ad)licf) 

wegen be§ 3Bo!^Igefd)madfg f(f)d^en, ben er anberen $RaI}r= 

^ . ^ , ,^ unq^mttteln mittfieilt. 5(t§ ©e^ 

©em ^aupttrert^. ^^.^ .^-^ ^^ ^^^ ^.^^-^^^^ ^^^^^^^ 

wenn wix aBer aud^ ^(bti)ed)§Iiing 311 f(i)d^en voi\i 
fen, fo finb mix hod) gan^ fidjcr bei gu rielen @evicf)ten, 
raie bci 9tei§, 9iaI;mtorten unb t)er[d)iebenen (Sier- unb 
^vobgeridjten, rceldje ber 2Iu§(dnber ^iiroeilen faljt ftatt 
fu§ mac^t, unb mit feinem gleif^e ftatt am (5nbe feiner 
SD^ol^l^ett gente^t, an hen ©ef^macf be§ Sucfers geroo^nt. 
2Bir roiirben t)or[c^(agen, raenn man Su^er gebraud^t, 
trie 5. 33. bei etnem Rubbing, rceniger baoon gu oerraens 
ben, aU mix geroo^nt finb, benn in biefem gatle fonnen 
mix von einem fo geroiirjten @ertd)te genug gentegen, fo 
bog e§ fiir unS me^r bie voixUid)^ ©ubftang einer ^J^a^l^ 
jeit bilbet» 

33o^nen, @rbfen unb Sinfen. 

^JSrosentfa^ an ^ro= Wan fel^e fid^ uod^ etnmal ben 

teintorpern. merfraiirbtgen ^ro^entfa^ »on ^ros 

tctn an, ben un§ biefe glaffe von ^^egetabi^en gibt. 
SSoIjnen unb (grbfen 23 ^roj., :2tnfen 25 ^ro^., rod^renb 
gfJinbfteii'd) im ^urd)f^nitt blog lY— 21 ^roj. ergibt. 
QSon geuten, raelc^e au§ etgener ^al)t ober au§ ^bt^raen^ 
btgfeit uor^ug^raeife con ^Segetabilien leben, rouvDen biefe 
^Urfenfviidite ftet§ fe^r Dte( genojfen; if;r 55erbruc^ ift tin 
fel^r auSgebe^nter in ^nbien, g^ina unb in ganj Guropa. 
greiti^ ift in i^nen bie O u a ti t a t bc§ $rDtetn§ nid)t 
t)iefelbe, mie im gleifc^, — e§ ift raeniger ftimulirenb unb 
fd^macf^aft unb oietleii^t aud^ in anberen SBe^te^ungen 
geringer, allein e§ f ann bem $rotein;33ebiirfniB be^ ^or^ 
per§ entfprecf)en, unb hic§ ift etne fel;r bebeutenbe Z^aU 
fad)e, mo e§ fid^ um Oefonomie l^anbelt. 
m V ..^. .. ®te 5rnficbt, haf^ gebbrrte 33o^nen unb 

SSerbauad)!ett. ^^^^-^^ ^-^^^ ^-^^^^^^ @p,i^g |eien, hit fid) 

14 



81 Sugars. 

to take only a moderate amount at a time, sugar can- 
not, to any great extent, take the place of the 
starches; we are to value it chiefly for the relish it 
gives to other foods. As a flavor, it is 

Its chief value. „ ,, i , ^ ^ > ■£ 

of the greatest value, but if we prize 

variety we are certainly accustomed to the taste of 

sugar in too many dishes, as in rice, custards, and 

various egg and bread dishes, which the foreigner 

would sometimes salt instead of sweeten, and eat with 

his meat instead of at the end of the meal. 

We would suggest that when we do use sugar, as in 

a pudding, for instance, that we use less of it than we 

are accustomed to do, for in that case we could eat 

enough of a dish so flavored to make it furnish more 

of the real substance of a meal. 

BEANS, PEAS AInTD LENTILS. 

Per cent of Pro- Look again at the remarkable per 
cent of proteid given by this class of 
vegetables. Beans and peas, 23^, Lentils, 25^, while 
beef gives on the average only from 1 7 to 2 1 ^. By peo- 
ple who from choice or necessity live principally on 
vegetables, the legumes have always been largely used; 
their consumption is extensive in India, China, and 
in all of Europe. 

To be sure, the quality of the proteid is not the 
same as in meat, — it is less stimulating and palatable, - 
and perhaps in other ways inferior, but the proteid 
needs of the body can be answered by it, and that is 
a very important item when the question is one of 
economy. 

The impression that dried beans and 
igestibii y. ^^^^ ^^^ 'Hiearty" food, fitted for out- 



Bol^ncn, (Erbfcn unb £tnfen. 82 

me^r fiir im greten ^IrBeitenbe, al§ fiir twcntger !rafttgc 
Seiite ober [old^e Don fi^enber SebenSraeife eigne, fdieint 
burd; hie ^^atfad^e begriinbet gu raerben, ba^ biefe ^Seges 
tabtlten einen ungerao^nlid) gro^en ^rojentfa^ g^^f^off 
^eHftoff ^^" ^^^ gciljeren ©orte ent(;alten, weldie lang 
^ ' ''* an^altenbe Slnroenbung con SSdrme uertangen, 
urn fte t)on bem ^Protein unb bent (Btdxfrml)l be§ ^Segetas 
bits ^u befreien; t^atfdd^lic^ rairb fein £od)en, tnie lang 
e§ auc^ an^alten mag, unjnreic^enb fein, roenn er nic^t 
fein gefc^roten ober gu 9)^e:^I germal^ien tft. 2Btr l^aben 
gefel^en, ha^ $rof. ©triimpefi nur 40 ^rog. non bem 
protein in ^o^nen, hie auf bem geraijl^nlidjen SSege ges 
fod)t raaren, oerbaut l^at, menn fie aber gu SO^el;! gerfd^ros 
ten unb gebacfen maren, nerbaute er 91.8 ^roj. ^§ i\t 
^Bofinenmefil ^^tfac^e, ha^ mir unferen SSeigen gang 

unfere 33o!^nen, unb bod^ gibt e§ noc^ fein 33ol^nenme!^l 
im 9J^artte, raenn roir von hex „prd|)arirten" (Sorte in 
Heinen, foftfpieligen ^acfeten abfel^en. (5§ fdjeint ha§ 
35efte gu fein, wa§ roir tfjun fonnen, roenn rair bie So!§5 
nen tiic^tig fod^en unb burc^treiben, raoburd^ rair fie 
tr)entgften§ t)on hen .gduten befreien. 
^ . ^, ^ .. ©eborrte unb qefpaltene (Srbfen 

©eipaltene ©rbien. ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^-.^ ^^« loexiipoK wie hie 

33ol^nen unb fc§on oon ben ,gduten befreit finb, nid)t fo 
Diet bei un§ tm ©ebraud); fie fotlten mel^r in ©uppen 
unb al§ ©emiife cerraenbet merben. 

35or einigen Sa^ren nod; fonnte man Sinfen nur in 
grogen ©tdbten finben; je^t ftnb fie leid)ter ju bef ommen. 
3^r 9f^a^rung§n)ertl) ift, raie mir gefe^en Ijaben, nod^ 
groger ah hex von ^o^nen ober @rbfen, allein i^r ©e? 
fd)madf i]t nic^t fo angene^m, hi§ man fid) an ifju ges 
wo^nt l^at. (Sine fparfame ^auS^atterin barf hie gami^ 
lie ber ^ulfenfriid)te nid)t iiberfe^en. 

^ a r t f f e r n. 

SStr in unferem Sanbe braud^en feine fo bitteren ©e--; 



82 Peas, Beans and Lentils, 

door workers rather than for less vigorous people or 

those of sedentary habits, seems justified by the fact 

that these vegetables contain an unusually large per 

cent of cellulose of the tougher sort 

CgIIuIosg 

which requires a long continued appli- 
cation of heat to free it from the proteid and starch 
of the vegetable ; indeed, unless it is broken fine or 
ground into flour, cooking, however long continued, 
will be insufiicient. We have seen that Prof. Striim- 
pell digested only 40^ of the proteid of beans cooked 
in the ordinary way, but when they were ground to 
flour and baked he digested 91.8^ The fact is, we 

could cook and eat our wheat whole 

Bean Flour. , -1,1 

much more easily than we can our 
beans, and yet bean flour is not in the market, if we 
except the '* prepared" sort in small, expensive pack- 
ages. It seems that the best we can do is to cook 
beans Avell and sieve them; in that way we free them 
from the skins at least. 

The dried and split pea, though as 
^ ^' valuable as the bean and already freed 

from the skin, is not as much used among us ; it 
should be more employed in soups and as a vegetable. 
Lentils a few years ago were to be found only in 
large cities ; now they are more easily attainable. 
Their food value, as we have seen, is still greater than 
that of beans and peas, but the taste is not as agree- 
able until one becomes accustomed to it. An eco- 
nomist cannot afford to neglect the legume family. 

POTATOES. 

We in our country need not feel as bitter against 



Kartoffcln. 83 

fiitjlc gcgcit bie yiartoffcl ju Ijccjcn, luic bie @eiel)xtcn 
©uropag, bcnn tuir miificu fie nid)t im Uc6crma§e ge^ 
nic^cn, unb in 5(u6ctrQdjt if;rer 23iUtgfeit tft fie fiir ung 
cin guteS ^egetabil, unb au§ biefcm ©runbe miiffen wix 
fie, obfc^oit fie niir geringen mijxmcxt^ aufroeii'cn fann, 
an 33ebeutung gleid; neBen hie 53of;nen ftcden. ©ie l^at 
nur 2 ^roj. ^roteinforpcr, fein gctt unb nuv 20.1 ^xo^, 
£oI;ten^i)brate, unb bod) fommt fie, locil fie auf fo uicle 
Derfc^iebene SIrten bereitet racrbcn ifann unb wix i(;re§ 
milben @efd;madc§ nie miibe iDerben, oTjue ^ii'cifel 
tmmer noc^ l^nufiger auf ben Ziid) alg ivgenb 
ein anbereS 2)egetabiL ^ehm XaQ ober gar tags 
li6) jraeimar in gro^en Ouantitoten tft ^u oft; in 
ber ^l^at mi'iffen ©iejenigen, raeldje fie in foldjem 9J?age 
genie^en, ifjren uer^a(tni§md§ig geringcn dUijxwcxtf) 
nidjt fennen. !^ie Oualitdt ber £artof|e[ ift von grower 
33ebeutung unb Mo^ hie befte follte ^erraenbung finben. 
@ie foUte con me()tiger ©orte unb DoUfommen reif fein, 
@artengen)ad;fe. 

©riine ©eraac^fe, mit 5(u§naf;me ber (JrBfe unb 35ol^ne, 
loerben nid)t corjug^raeife um ber ^roteinforper, ber 
%ettc unb ^openI;i)brate n)illen gefd^dl^t, biercir hd ifjuen 
au§red)nen fonnen, benn ber 33etrag bcrfelben ift hci 
i^nen fef;r !(ein. 5Ut§er in ber ^bljc ber (Saifon miiffen 
fie al§ :^uru§arti!el betradjtet raerben, aKein ruir faufen 
fie, fo oft eg un§ unfere Wittel erkuben. ^^t Cuanti; 
tatcn, hie jum SSiirjen t)on ©uppen anb ©c^morfteifd^ 
l^inreid)en, fonnen roir fie ung ftetS geftotten, unb auf 
biefe SQeife fotlten g. ^. gelbe jRit6en, ©etierie, ^aftinas 
fen unb ^arabie§apfe( reid)Iid)e 35ern)enbung finben, 
g r ii d; t e. 

Unfere 9}?orfte Bieten un§ feine griidjte in grower 
SD^anigfaltigfeit, unb oiele dou il;nen finb in iljrer 3<i^' 
re§3eit Bidig; 5(epfel finb im ^erBft felBft bem 3(crmften 
erreidjBar. 

gri[d)e griidjte I;aBen einen grogcn ^rojcntfat^ Don 



^3 Potatoes, 

die potato as do the scientists of Europe, for we are 
not obliged to use it to excess, and considering its cheap- 
ness and availability it is for us a good vegetable and on 
these accounts^ though it makes a poor enough show- 
ing as to food value, we must rank it next to the bean 
in importance. It has only 2<fo of proteids, no fat and 
only 20. Ifo carbohydrates, and yet since it can be pre- 
pared in so many ways and we never tire of its mild 
flavor, it will doubtless continue to come upon our 
tables niore frequently than any other vegetable. 
But every day or twice a day, in large amounts, is far 
too often; indeed those who use it to this extent must 
be ignorant of its relatively low food value. The 
quality of the potato is of great importance and none 
but the best should be used. It should be a mealy 
variety and perfectly ripe. 

GARDEiq^ VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables, excepting the pea and bean, are 
not to be valued chiefly for what we can reckon up 
in them of proteids, fats and carbohydrates, for the 
amount is very small. Except in the height of the 
season they must be looked on as luxuries, but we will 
buy them as often as we can afford them. In quan- 
tities sufficient to flavor soups and stews they can 
always be afforded, and in this way should be freely 
used, carrots, celery, parsnips, and tomatoes, for 
example. 

FRUITS. 

Our markets offer us a great variety of fine fruits, 
and many of them are cheap in their season; apples 
in the fall are within the reach of the very poorest. 



SSaffcr, in bcr Orange gcljt cv 16i§ ju 89 ^ro^., uiib 
wenige griidjte I^aBeit lueniger atS 80 ^roj. ^l)x dlal)x^ 
toertf) Beftcljt Ijauptfddjtic^ tm S^'^cv, t)on bcm un§ ^(epfel 
7.7 $vo^., ^rauben 14.3 ^roj. ercjcbcn; 3)er S3etrag 
il^rer ^rotcinforper erreid)t, bie ©rbbeere adein auSge^ 
nommen, nid;t 1 $1*03.; aildn gviid)te fiub ung raegen 
il^veg @e[d;macfe§, bcii fie t)erfd;iebcnen aromatifdjen 
£orpern, g-viid;t[aurpii nub bem ^iidex rerbanfen, feljr 
ttill^lic^. '^cx Slpfel tft befouberS fd;dpnr tccgen feiner 
33iUigieit uitb guten ^althaxtdt, unb er ratrb von hex 
M<i)in auf hie manigfaltigfteSBeife benut^t, urn eiiifadjen 
aJ^aterialien 2Sof;(ge[c^ma(f ^u werlei^en. Obfdjon rotr 
t^n am meifteit gu fiigeit ©eric^ten oerraenben, ift er Diels 
Uid)t ebenfo fdicipar in [emer S3erit)enbung ol^ne 3"^^^) 
man faun tljtt in ©titde gefc^nttten braten unb mit fettem 
gleifd), rote ©ped ober 2Burft, effen, ober !ann man ^n 
and) ^um ©topfen Don ©effugelC benul^en. 

Obft fann nic^t won S^'^^Ji^ I^^dit rerbont roerben, 
roenn e§ in betrdd)t[id)en 9}tengen genoffen roirb, unb ha§ 
3um ^^eil roegen feineg Der^dltnigmd^ng gro^en ^ro^ents 
fa^e§ an Ijoljigen ga[ern unb and), befonberS rocnn e§ 
nod^ nic^t ganj reif ift, roegen ber ©duren unb ber 
^pectofe, hie e§ entljdlt. ^eibelbeeren ent^alten 12 ^ro^. 
^oljfafer, Slepfef nur 2 $roj. eiufdilieglid) ber ©amen 
unb ber ©djale. 

3)ie SBebeutung geborrter griid^te al§ $Raf;rung§mittet 
rairb nic^t genug t)erftanben. Obft uerliert beim ©orren 
einen gro^en 2;;(;eil feine§ 3Saffer§, roobci feine ndfjrenben 
33eftanbtl)eife in fonbenfirterer gorm ^u unferem ©cbrauc^ 
^uriidbleiben; geborrte 5(epfel fommen mit hen 10 ^ro; 
jent 3^d^rbeftanbtl)eile, bie fie bieten, bem ©rob fel^r 
nal^e, unb bie gebiirrte ©irne fann man hie ®attc( 
®eut[(^lanb§ nennen, fo a((gemcin ift fie im @cbrauc^, 
33ei un§ ift biefe grud)t ju tl^euer, aber in einigen "^ijeilen 
^eut[d;(anb§ Ijat bie ^^erfafferin gen)of;nIid; geborrte 
33irnen per gaj^, wie 33o^ncn, ^um 35erfan[ au^geftetlt 
gefei^en; fie roerben yon hem gen)i)l;nlid/en ^olfe in gro^en 



84 Fruits. 

Fresh fruits have a large per cent of water, as 
high as 89^ in the orange, and few fruits have less 
than 80^. Their food value is mainly in the form of 
sugar, apples giving us on an average 7.7^, grapes, 
ILSfo; of proteids, the amount does not, with the 
single exception of the strawberry, reach 1^; but 
fruits are very useful to us on account of their flavor, 
due to various aromatic bodies, fruit acids and sugar. 
The apple is especially valuable on account of its 
cheapness and fine keeping qualities, and is used in a 
variety of ways by the cook to give a relish to plain 
materials. Although our largest use of them is in 
sweet dishes, they are perhaps quite as valuable used 
without sugar; they may be fried in slices and eaten 
with fat meat, as bacon or sausage, or they may be 
used to stuff a fowl. 

Fruit is not for all people easy of digestion if eaten 
in considerable quantities, and this is partly on ac- 
count of its relatively large per cent of woody fibre, 
and also, especially when not quite ripe, because of 
the acids and pectose contained in them. Huckle- 
berries have 1 2fo woody fibre, apples only 2^ including 
the seeds and skin. 

The importance of dried fruits as food is not well 
enough understood. Fruit loses in drying a large 
portion of its water, leaving its nutritive parts in 
more condensed form for our use; dried apples are 
very near to bread in the per cent of nutrients they 
offer, and the dried pear may be called the date of Ger- 
many, so general is its use. With us this fruit is too 
expensive, but in parts of Germany the writer has 
seen dried pears commonly exposed for sale by the 



liod}tn Don Kornerfriidjten. 85 

OuQiititcitcn G^g^ffe"/ ^^^ fie, raeif jcinc Tla^cn an cine 
OfJoggenbrobi unb ^flan^enbiot gerao(jnt [inb, oljne 
(Sd;iuierigfeit ju oerbauen [c^eint. ©iefe geborrten 
grud;te merben ^^u ben manigfaltigften ©eridjten .^um 
gleifd), 3U tartoffeln unb 33o^nen unb and) 3U ^tubeln 
unb SOZacaronig Derarbeitet. 

£ (^ e n Don £ rn e r f r it d; t c n. 

®ie ^ornerfrudjte fann man gan^, gro6 ge[d)roten, alS 
©vaupen unb fein gema^len, ai^ Mcl)i fod)cn. 
©an^gefoc^te ^^0rner= mt 'i)ic\e i^ornerfriic^te fonnen 

friic^te. ^(^]^ gefodjt raerben, adcin eg ge; 

[c^ie^t [elten, weil eg [0 lange ^dt in 5In[pvuc^ nimmt. 
9^ur Df^eig unb @erfte raerben geraol^ntid^ fo gefodjt. 
ms. Sutoc^en. Seim ji;o^en beg JReifeS fotae 

^ man tm 3luge veljaitcn, ba§ bic 

Corner Don etnanber getrennt, toeici, troden unb meljlig 
fein fotten. 

^n ®ampf gefod^t. ^53.^ ^^^^ ^^.^ ^^.^.^^^ ^^^.^^ ^^^-^^.^ 

falje gut, bringe il^n in einem jugebedten ©efdge in einen 
®ampffo(^apparat unb laffe i^n 4- ©tunbe bem ®ampf 
auSgefCvt. Ober ifann man and) ben ^eig iiber ^ad)t in 
2Sajfer einraeic^en, bann mirb er im ®ampf in 20 SJlinn^ 
ten roeid^. 

. ©d^iitte hen 9^ei§ in eine groge Ouantitdt 

®^^'^"^"- oon foc^enbem SSoffer, gib einen ^^eelbffet 
voii ©alj auf jebe ^a[fe dld§ ^u; fiebe rafd^ unter gele; 
gentlic^em Umrii!)ven. ©ie^e ah^ laffe i!^n ein menig 
auStrodnen unb l)alte il)n warm, inbem ®u ifju mit 
einem 3^ud)e ^ubedft, raie e§ hci £artoffe(n gefd;iel)t. 
©pare ha§ abgegoffene gaffer ^u ©uppe. 
9lei^. ©eine 35ers !^ie befte 33crtt)enbung ift hie al§ 
njenbung. ©emiife ^nm ^-teifd^. ^a ev oon 

milbev, neutvaler ©efc^affenljeit ift, tann er, wie 33rob gu 
einer enblofen Slnjafjl uon @erid;ten, bie 3um gteifd; 3U 
15 



85 Cooking of Grains. 

barrel like beans; they are eaten in great quantities by 
the common people, who seem to digest them and 
dried apples without any trouble, accustomed as their 
stomachs are to a rye bread and vegetable diet. 
These dried fruits are made into a variety of dishes 
with meats, with potatoes and with beans and also 
with noodles and macaroni. 

COOKING OF GRAINS. 

The grains may be cooked whole, coarsely ground, 
as grits, and finely ground, as flour. 
Grains cooked -A.11 these grains can be cooked whole 
whole. but it is seldom done, because of the 

length of time required. Only rice and barley are 
generally so cooked. 

In cooking rice, the aim should be to 
have the grains distinct from each other, 
soft, dry and mealy. 

This is the best way. Add to the rice 

three times its bulk of water, salt well, 

put in a covered dish in a steamer and steam J hour. 

Or, the rice may be soaked over night, and it will then 

steam soft in twenty minutes. 

Put the rice into a large quantity of 
boiling water, add one teaspoon salt to 
each cupful of rice; boil fast, stirring occasionally. 
Drain, dry out a little and keep warm by covering 
with a cloth, as is done with potatoes. Save the 
water poured off for soup. 

Its best use is as a vegetable with 

meat. Being of a bland and neutral 

character, it can, like bread, be made into an endless 



Koc^cn von (5rut5c. 



86 



ef[en finb, ober gu S)ef[ertg mit ^urfer, ^rucfiten ufit). 
uerar^eitet rcerbeu. 33etref[g ber ^eig . Omerette (f © 
60), 9?etg|)ubbtng ([. @. 107 unb 110). 

©eriebener £dfe {ft cine gute 3utr;at sum ^etg, ba er 
feinen mariQd an ^roteinforpern unb %ctten ergdnat. 

^erlgerfte geforfit. . ^^l^^ ^^^ ^^"^^ ^^"^^ ^i" ""^ ^od^e 
tnv-)ar3raafferroeic^. ©te fannaud; mit 
:i)ampf gefod^t raerben. ^eniit^e fie gum 3}erbicfeu ber 
©uppen, ober, mie 9^ei§, aH @emiife, ober alg gru6s 
ftiicfggeric^t mit ^ucfer unb ^J^ilc^. 

ma 3metl(f)en. . f ^' /^ ""'T^^l^' "''"" ^^^ "^'^ ^^^"^"^ 
oiel gefdimorten ^ftaumen oermengt ift; 
\(^une jcrlaffene gutter, ^ucfer unb ^immet bariiber. 
©robgefc^rotene £ornerfriid^te ober 

@ r ii t^ e. 
3)iefe finb fiir einfadje jtiic^e beffer geeignet aU feine 
3!}?e^(e, ha man blog not^menbig I;at, fie in SBaffer toeic^ 
3U fodjen, um fie epar ju madden. ®ie bet un§ am 
meiften auf biefe 2Beife benu^ten Jlornerfriic^te finb ges 
gerbter SBeigen, @rie§ ober SBeigengrii^e, ^afergrii^e, 
„^omin\)" ober SBelfc^fornmeljt, unb aCe raerben hdnaf)c 
auf gteic^e 2Beife gefoc^t. 

33 V c i e. 

SBeigen- |)ofer= unb ^nt 2—3 ©tunben. 3)ie[e ^eit 
ajiai^brei. fQ,„^ oerfiirgt merben, menu man hie 

(55ru^e einige ©tunben in 3Baffer an^meid^t. ^afergrii^e 
unb mai§ fi)nnen nidjt gu ftarf gefoc^t merben. 
^"o«t;tat be§ me auger aJJaig nebmen 3— 4mat fo. 

SBaffer^. ^i,i jQ^if^r in fic^ auf, mie i^r Umfang 
betrdgt; ^ai§ dn)a§ me^r atg gmeimar fo md. 

© a r 3. (Jin Xljeeroffer oott gu eincr taffe oott @ru^e. 

ajj e t r; b e b e § ^ d^ e n §. SDampf fodjen ift am 
^e|ten, meit hahci fdn 5lnbrennen ober ^eigigraerben be§ 
S3reig burc^ Umrii^ren bro^t. ©c^iitte hie ©rii^e unb 
oiermal fo oiet Staffer in einen boppelten ^oc^topf ober 



86 Cooking of Grits. 

number of dishes to be eaten with meats, or into des- 
sert dishes, with sugar, fruits, etc. For rice omelette 
(see page 60), rice pudding (see pages 107 and 110). 

Grated cheese is a good addition to rice, supplying 
its lack of proteids and fat. 

Pearl barley Soak all night and boil soft in salted 

boUed. water. It may also be steamed. Use 

as a thickening for soups, or like rice, as a vegeta- 
ble, or as a breakfast dish with sugar and milk. 

It is excellent mixed with its bulk of 

With prunes. , , • , t , t 

stewed prunes; — pour over it melted 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. 

GRAIKS, COAESELY GROUKD, OR GRITS. 

These are better adapted to simple cookery than 
are fine flours, since to make them eatable it is only 
necessary to cook them soft in water. The grains 
used in this way among us are cracked wheat, farina or 
wheat grits, oatmeal, hominy and corn meal, and they 
are all cooked in nearly the same way. 

MUSHES. 

Wheat, oat and f^^Q 2-3 hours. This time maybe 
shortened by soaking the grits some 
hours in water. Oatmeal and corn cannot be over- 
cooked. 

Amount of Water. They all, except corn, absorb 
from three to four times their bulk of water; corn, a 
little over twice. 

Salt. One teaspoonful to one cupful of grits. 

Method of coohing. Steaming is best, as there is 
then no danger of burning or of making the mush 



in ein ©efdjivr unb [el^e biefe^ in ben 'I)ampffo(f)apparat, 
ober beuu^e einen iteffet aug ^ii^^^^J^cii) «^it bidjtcm ®ecfc( 
unb fel^e hk\m in einen £e[|e( mit 3Ba[fer; — in jebem 
galle Ijalte fie in @iebe()it^e, oI;ne ha^ fie an6rennt. 
SSerwenbung falter 302 e t; C f u p p e. 9iiif;ve irgenb 
S3reie. raeld^en f alien, gcfoc^ten 33vci mit einer 

TOfdjung von Ijalh $Ba[fer unb I;al6 Mild) gtatt, 6i^ er 
fo bid n)ie eine DJ^efjtfuppe ift. @ib etraa^ ©al^ ju unb 
foc^e tfju auf. 3"<^cr unb ^i"^"^^^ ober 93iugfatnuf^ 
fann al§ ©eraitr^ jugefiigt merben. ©elBftuerftdnbtid) 
fijnnen 9J?c()l[uppen and; aug ungefoc^ter ©riit^e gemac^t 
raerben, benn fie finb einfad; blo^ fel)r biinne 33reie» 

^fannfud^en. @ine 5:affe falter .l^afergril^e, 
^omint) ober 9}iai^36ret, 2 ^a[[en Wl^ljl, i ^int miid), 
^ 3:^eel6ffel noil ©alj unb dn (5i, 2 3:l;eeloffel doU 
S3adpuluer ober t'xn 3^l;eelof|el noil @oba unb jioei ^l)ee; 
loffel noil 2Beinftein. Ober fann au(^ faure Wild) mit 
einem ^ljeelo[[el noil ©oba Benut^t merben, mobei man 
'titn ^einftein megld^t. 2)ie[e 33reie merben in ber ^xdt 
ein menig non einanber ner]'d)ieben fein, unb e§ mag \>ac 
l)tx mel;r ober meniger 3!)kl;l notl)n)enbig merben. ^ade 
in einer ^adpfanne. 

^ u t t e r f e m m e I n. !l)ie[el6e 9QZi[d;ung, mie 
o6en, mit '^ua^dht non dvoa^ mel;r SQZel^l. 93ade in 
©emmelnapfen. 

3 u f (^ m r e n. ^n biefem ^mzdt roerben geinoljn; 
lid) blo'j 3D2ai§brei unb Jjomin^ Benul^t. SBenn [ie fod)cn 
gib eine .'^anbootl SBei^enmeljl ju bcm 33rei ju, urn il;n 
fteifer gu ma(^en. ®riide il;n, mdljrenb er noc^ tuarm 
ift, in einen nieredigen 9JJobel, unb menu er fait geraor^ 
'Htn ift, 3crfd)ncibe ilju \n ©tiide unb fdjmore fie in einer 
33adp[anne mit etinaS S^tii Vx^ fie l^iibfd} hxciwn finb. 
Ober fann man Vxt ©tilde in jcrfdjtagcne^ (Ji cintaud)cn, 
bann in ^Brobfrumen unb in fiebenbem ^ette fd;morcn. 
9JZ a i § m e Ij I. 

(5^ gi6t ein [eincS 9.Ucl;l, 'Oa^:> eluMifo n)ic grob gc[d;ro; 



87 Mushes. 

pasty by stirring. Put the grits and four times their 
bulk of water into a double boiler or into a dish and 
set the dish into a steamer, or use a tin pail with 
tight cover, and set in a kettle of water; — any way to 
keep it at boiling heat without burning. 
Uses for cold Porridge. Stir any cold cooked mush 

mushes. smooth with half water and half milk 

to the consistency of porridge. Add a little salt and 
boil up. Sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg may be 
added as flavor. Of course porridges can be also 
made of the uncooked grits, they are simply very thin 
mushes. 

Pancakes. 1 cup of cold oatmeal, hominy or corn 
mush, 2 cups flour^ | pint of milk, -J teaspoon salt, 
and 1 Qgg, 2 teaspoons baking powder or 1 of soda and 
2 of cream of tartar. Or, sour milk may be used with 1 
teaspoon soda, omitting the cream of tartar. These 
mushes will differ a little in thickness, and therefore 
more or less flour may be needed. Bake on griddle. 

Muffins. The same mixture as above, with the 
addition of a little more flour. Bake in muffin rings. 

To Fry. For this, only corn mush and hominy 
are commonly used. When cooking, add a handful 
of wheat flour to the mush to make it stiffer. Pack 
while warm into a square mould and when cold cut in 
slices and fry slowly to a nice brown on a griddle with 
a little fat. Or^ the slices may be dipped into beaten 
egg, then into bread crumbs, and fried in boiling fat. 

CORN FLOUR. 

There is one fine flour that can be treated in the 
same way as the coarsely ground, — that made from 



mais'' unb (Srat^am=mct|I. 88 

tene§ bel^anbelt roerben fann— ba§ au§ SSctfd^forn be^ 
reitete. ^kM^t raegen feineg groBcrctt ^rojentfa^eS 
an ^etten unb rceit raenigev oon fcinem (SiraeiB bie gorm 
Don mcUx Ijat, bilbet eg feinen Hebrigcn Xcig trie ^cu 
jenme^l, fonbcvn faun bto§ mit Staffer cermengt unb 
bann ju einer t)erbaund)cn unb n)Dr)l[d)me(fenben ©pci[e 
gefotten ober gebacfen tcerben, unb hk^ ift etroaS, raaS 
ben ^Jiaig Seuten, rate ben 9^egern ber (Subftaaten, beren 
ilodjUOiTic^tungen Don ber primitiuften ©orte [inb, ^u 
einer fo iDert^DoUen ©etreibeart ma6)i. ®a§ ^Drnmel)t 
t)at eine (Sigentljiimlic^feit,— e§ rairb rafc^ fauer unb foate 
nid)t Idnger al§ eine SBo^e ge^tten tuerbcn. 3)ag ge^ 
borrte Wld)l jebod) ^alt [i^ unbcgrenjt lang unb roirb 
eben ciel Derroenbet, attein e§ ift nid)t fo fu§, n)ie frifc^ 
gema^leneS. ^er 9f^ame „^ci)l^' fd^eint fiir fein. fo^ 
n)oljI, raie grobge[d^rotene§ angeraenbet gu raerben. 

3)iel"er, ob er nun au§ fein ober grob ge^ 
SSJlaigbreu ^(^^^.tenem 3!Jlai§ gemadjt rairb, rairb roie 
@rii^e gefo^t. ©. <Seite 86. 

^arft!ud^en ober 1 Ouart 2Selfd)!ornme^I, 1 ^^ee^ 

mai^-'^om, roffel voU ©alj. Sefeud)te mit fodien-. 
bem SSaffer ober 9Jii(c^, hi^ e§ ein ^eig roirb; laffe i^n 
ein paar etunben ftefjen, big fid) Suftbtafen auf ber 
Oberflcic^e jeigen, forme i^ bann in hide .^ud)en unb 
hade fie im Sadofen ober gerfd)ncibe if)n in ©tilde unb 
fd)more fie in (Sd)n)einefett in einer SSadpfanne. ger^ 
bric^, aber jerfdinetbe fie ui^t unb ig fie fieife. 

^tefe§ ^:praparat t)on SS^ei^enmel}! !ann, ob]d)on fein 
jermal)len, ungefal;r mie ©vul^e be^nbelt merben, unb 
man fann, inbem man b(o§ SSaffer augibt, ein 23rob 
baraug bereiten, bag leid)t unb moljlfdjmedenb ift. ®a§ 
©ebeimnife beg ©rfolgeg Hegt im rec^t ^eigen 33arfofen. 
Wi\d)e gefaljeneg @ral)am=9)lef)t mit 
®ra^am ®emg. f^i^^^ 2Baffer, big eg cin^eig mirb, bi(f 
gcnug, urn nod) ab^uftiefeen; ©iege il^n in Dorl;cr ^eigge^^ 



88 Corn and Graham Flour. 

Indian corn. Perhaps on account of its larger 
per cent of fat and because little of its albumen is 
in the form of gluten, it does not form into a sticky 
paste as does wheat flour, but can be mixed with water 
only and then boiled or baked into digestible and 
good tasting food, and this is one thing that makes 
corn so valuable a grain to people like the negroes of 
the southern states, whose cooking apjDaratus is of the 
most primitive sort. Corn meal has one peculiarity, — 
it quickly sours and should be kept no longer than a 
week. The kiln-dried meal, however, keeps indefinite- 
ly, and is now largely used, but is not as sweet as the 
freshly ground. The name '' meal " seems to be used 
for both the fine and coarsely ground. 

This, whether made from fine or 

Corn mush. , , . i i t i 

coarsely ground corn, is cooked like 
grits. See page 86. 

Hoe cake or corn 1 quart Indian meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 
pone. Moisten to a dough with boiling water 

or milk; let it stand a few hours till it shows air 
bubbles on the surface, then make into thick cakes 
and bake in the oven, or cut in slices and fry in pork 
fat on a griddle. Break, not cut, and eat hot. 

GEAHAM FLOUE. 

This preparation of wheat, though finely ground, 
may be treated somewhat like grits, and a bread may 
be made of it with the addition of water only which 
will be light and palatable. The secret of success is 
in having the oven very hot. 

Mix salted graham flour with cold 
water to a batter thick enough to drop, 
then put it into iron forms already heated, and bake 
in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes. 



^Jeincs IPeisenmct^I. 89 

mad)tc, eiferne gormen xinb Badfe in cincm \d)x Ijeigen 
iBacfofen etwa fiinfjel^n SJtiuuten lang. 

g e t n c § 2B e 1 3 e n m e I; L 

aJian !anrt natiirltc^ aiid^ SJlef;! in ftebenbem Staffer 
ober in SD^tlc^ fod^en, unb auf biej'e SScifc bcnitl^t man e^ 
jum ^erbicfen von (Sauccit ober ©iippcn inib and) guv 
^crcitung einer 5(rt Doii 23rei mit SOUld; unb (Siern. 
©. „9Xtinutcn=5]]ubbing" ®. 107. 

3)a§ ^rinjip bei feinem ^oc^en untevfd;e{bet fid^ in 
btefem galle gar nidjt oon bent ^od)cn eincr ^artoffcf; in 
beibcn ^-dricn faugen hie (Btdxfmdjlfoxndjcn ha^ Ijjcige 
SBaffcr in fid) auf, ]6i§ fie iijve ^cKftoffroanbe gerberften. 
3So(Iten rviv ahcv Derfudjcn, Md)i, rvcnn e§ gu eincm 
btden ^cig aufgeraeidjt ift, gu Baden, fo tuiirbcn n)ix 
e§ erftlid) fd}:t)terig gu BeiucrffteUigen finbcn, wdi fid) bie 
SSdnne fel)r lantjfam von hex ObcvfIdd)e bcm ^nn^vcn 
mittl)eilt, unb wenn e§ fcvtig ift, iDiivbcn rvix Blog cine 
3dl)e, unnerbaulidie SD^affe l^aBen. (J§ gibt jebod^ eine 
Slrt unb SKeife, fold^en ieig fiir ha^ ^odjen Dorjuberets 
ten, hie xvix in ^dxad)t ^ic^m woUcn, e^e wix ha^ 
^Oefjenmadjen" be§ Md)l§ gum ©robe 6ef)anbeln. S}er 
9}lef)[teig wtrb in biefem gafie Ijart gefnetet, biinn auSges 
roeKt unb bann getrodnet. ©o beljanbelt fennen rvix il)n 
in hex gorm non 

9Jt a c a r n i ^ unb ^it u b c I n. 

^ . (5tn .l^anbelSartifel, bcr tm 2Iu§lanbe in 

Macaxom. (jyggebeljutem ©ebrau^ ift, mo hie bcften 
©orten nur 10 — 12 (Jent§ per ^[unb foften, unb biegers 
broc^enen unb unuotlfommenen ^oljrd^en nii^t nieljr alS 
7 G^entS. ©ie finb ein mertljuoKcS 9tal)rung§mitte(, aU 
Uin i^x ^ehxand) rvixh hei un§ tcin au^gebebntermerben, 
fo lange fie fo tfjeuer finb. SSie feine^ ddld)l iibcrf)aupt, 
au§ bem fie mefentlid) beftel^en, entbaltcn fie fcin ^^ctt 
unb ntiiffen mit ^ugabe oon iButter, ildfe ober Wild) gc; 
geffen merben. 



89 Fine Wheat Flour, 

FINE WHEAT FLOUR. 

Flour may be cooked, of course, in boiling water 
or milk, and in this way is used to thicken gravies or 
soups, and. also to make a sort of mush with milk 
and eggs. See ** Minute Pudding," page 107. 

The principle of cooking it in this case differs not 
at all from the cooking of a potato; in both cases the 
starch granules soak up the hot water till they burst 
their cellulose walls. But if we were to try to bake 
flour when wet up into a thick paste, we would find it, 
in the first place> difficult to accomplish, the heat being 
very slowly communicated from the surface to the 
interior, and when done, we would have only a tough 
indigestible mass. There is, however, one way of 
preparing such a paste for cooking, which we will con- 
sider before treating the " raising " of flour for bread. 
Flour dough is in this case kneaded hard, rolled thin 
and then dried. So treated we know it in the form of 

MACARON^I AND NOODLES. 

Macaroni. A trade article extensively used 

abroad where the best kinds cost only ten to twelve 
cents a pound, and the broken or imperfect sticks 
not more than seven. It is a valuable article of food, 
but its use will not become extensive among us while 
it is so dear. 

Like the fine flour of which it is principally com- 
posed it is deficient in fat, and must be eaten with 
the addition of butter, cheese or milk. 

How cooked. Put into plenty of salted boiling 
water, and boil twenty or thirty minutes, till it is 
perfectly tender (if old it takes longer to cook). 
8 



titacaronis unb Hubefn. 90 

g^. y -. <B^uttc: cine l^iutanglic^e 9}lenge in 

^te su toc^en. ^.j^^^^^^g ©aljroaffcr unt) foc^e fie 20—30 
SD^iniiten lang, big fie woUftdnbtg n)cic§ finb (alte bvaus 
d^en langer 311m ^odjen). ©ie^e f orgf cilttg ah, inbem ^u fie 
in einen ©eirjer fd)iitteft ober fie mit cinem ©d)aiimloffel 
l^erauSl^ebft. 

SBernjenbuua ^) (®^^ ^^f^^O ^^e fie in einjelnen Sa. 
wcserroenouug. ^^^ ^^^.^ geriebenem £dfe nnb 23utter in bie 

©d)iiffel. 

2) 9iid)tc fie mit Wild}^ unb 33utter=®auce an. 

3) @ib jraci gefal^ene @ier gur 3Jiild; unb jur 53ut? 
terfauce. 

0^ , c^ , 3Bte Srob unb 9fiei§, werben 

Sttnbere SBerwenbungen. getoc^tc3J}acatoni§ ju einer gvolen 

3lnja!^l t)on @erid§ten oerarbeitet; man gibt fie ^ur 
©uppe, Dermengt fie mit bem l^leifd) in 9tagout§ unb 
tod)t fie mit geraiffen ^Segetabilien, mie $arabie§dpfel. 

««.. cr^ w. ... z V Orbne bie 3[Racaroni§ in einem 

mit ^arabie^apfeln. y^bbinggef dg mit geviebenem ildfe 
unb gefod^ten ^arabieSdpfeln. iBrdune fie im 23a(fofen. 
S)iefe finb ebenfaHS ein ^anbetSartifel, 
Jiubeln. ^jj^.^ felbftuerfertigte finb meit beffer. Wan 
fann fie eine§ ber 9^ationalgerid)te bcr ©eutfdjen nennen, f 
auggebe^nt ift i^r ©ebraud) unter bicfem ^olfe, bci bem 
e§ oft bag §auptgerid)t einer ^J^a^I^cit ol)ne gleifc^ an^-. 
mad)t. 

en a s..*, '. 3 (gier, 3 (ggloffeboa S^itd) ober 2Saf. 

SBeftanbtfieile. ^^^^ ^.^^^^^ 3:r)eeti)ffelt)oU ©al^ unb DJkfjL 

9Qtac^e cine S^ertiefung mitten in ba§ 
S^ire 33ereitung. ^^^j^^^ j^.^^^ ^1^ anberen 33eftanbtf;eile 

l^inein unb Derarbeite e§ p einem fteifen Stcig, ^erfd^neibe 
i^n bann in niex ©treifcn, !nete iljn hi^j er ^cin ift, 
mede i^n fo biinn, mie moglid;, unb lege hie 
^ud)en sum ^rodnen aug. SBenn alte auagcmetlt 
finb, fange mit bem erften an, ^erfdjueibe il)n in 
oier gleid)e ©tilde, lege fie aufeinanber unb fc^neibe fo 



90 Macaroni a7id Noodles. 

Drain carefully, pouring it into a cullender or lifting 
out with a skimmer. 

1st. ( Best. ) Put it in the dish in 

To Use . 

layers with grated cheese and butter. 
2d. Serve with milk and butter sauce. 
3d. Add two beaten eggs to the milk and butter 
sauce. 

Like bread and rice, macaroni when 

other Uses. i ri • i • i. x x. £ 

cooked is made into a great number oi 
dishes ; it is added to soups, it is mixed with meat m 
ragouts, and it is cooked with certain vegetables, as 
tomatoes. 

Arrange the macaroni in a puddinsf 

With Tomatoes, t,-? .,. iii i 

dish m layers with grated cheese and 
stewed tomatoes. Brown in the oven. 

This is also a trade article, but that 
of home manufacture is much better. 
It may be called one of the German national dishes, 
so extensive is its use among that people, with whom 
it often constitutes the main dish of a meal without 
meat. 

Ingredients, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk or water, 
1 teaspoon salt, and flour. 

To make. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
put in the other ingredients and work to a stiff 
dough, then cut in 4 strips, knead each till fine grained, 
roll out as thin as possible and lay the sheet out to 
dry. When all are rolled begin with the first, cut it 
into 4 equal pieces, lay the pieces together and shave 
off very fine as you would cabbage, pick the shavings 
apart with floured hands and let them dry a little. 

To use. Boil them a few at a time in salted water 



^robbercitung. 9^ 

fetn ah, n)ie £raut; lege bte 5l6fc^nitte mtt mef)(6eftreuten 
^dnben bei ®cite unb laffe fie etraaS trocfnen. 

^ ^ ^od;e nur roenige auf einmal in ©algroaffer, 

rautt). jiij^-in^ lie i^ij; einem ©(^aumloffel l)cxan^ unb 

l^alte fie raarm. (Btxcm in Sutter geroftete 23vob!rume 

barauf, ober beniit^e fie raie 9}iacaronig. (Sielje ©. 90. 

2)ie[e S^ubeln fatten fic^ I^art getrocfnet unbegren^t, 
man fann fie ba()er mac^en, raenn hie (5ier biEig finb, 
unb fie fiir hen SSinter aufl}eben. S)a§ SSaffer, in n)tU 
6)e\n fie gefoc^t raurben, bilbet bie ©runblage ber SZubels 
fuppe; fie bebarf blo§ ber ^ugabe oon dn roenig 33utter, 
eine§ (S^loffeloodS 3erl;a(fter ^eterfilie unb einiger con 
ben gefoc^ten 9^ubeln. 

(^rperimentatoren \)ahen beraiefen, ha% S^eljT in ber 
gorm von 9^ubeln unb SJlacaroniS ooUfommener cerbaut 
roirb, alg felbft im 33robe. 

23 r b b e r e 1 1 u n g. 

^ ^ . , tn . . . 23iS I'efet !haben rair beim It'ocben 

Snbolmrte^nnatpien. ^^^ g^lel^Ifpeifen feine anberen 

^rinjipien angeraanbt, al§ einfac^ 2Ba[fer unb SScirme. 
3Sir miiffen je^t in ''^dxci6:)i lit^en, trie fein ha^ 9J^e^l 
gemad)t roerben mug, au§ bent, ba§, tt)a§ al§ 23rDb be; 
fannt ift, rerfertigt werben foil. 3Sie bereitg bem.erft, 
flumpen fidfi.bie ^fjeild^en, menu fie nag rcerben, leidjt^u 
einem Hebrigen^eige jujammen, ber, menn er fo ge^acfen 
n)irb, bem ^auen unb ber 3Serbauung ttJtberfteljt. 2Sir 
miiffen e§ ba^er auf trgenb eine SSeife fcrtig bringen, 
biefe 9D^eIjlt(jeilcf)en t)on einanber ^u trcnnen, inbcm mir 
Suft ober ein onbereg @a§ ^mifc^en fie brcingen, fo ha^ 
fie ber ©inroirfung ber 25erbauung§fdfte eine moglidjft 
groge gldc^e bieten, unb ba§ !ann gefdjel^cn, 1) inbcm 
rair biefe Xfieilc^en mit %eii umgeben, lute hti ber ©crcit; 
ung ber ^aftetenfrufte; 2) oermittetft ber ;^u[t in gcfd;la; 
genem (5i; 3) inbem voix ilofjlenfduregaS burc^ hit SJtaffc 
^inburditreiben burd) bie (J-inmirfung Don (a) .l^cfc, (b) 
boppelfol^lenfaurem D^atrum, ba§ auf dm ©dure rcagirt. 



91 Bread Making. 

taking them out with a skimmer and keeping them 
warm. Strew over them bread crumbs fried in but- 
ter or use like macaroni. (See page 90.) 

These noodles will keep indefinitely when dried 
hard, therefore when eggs are cheap they may be 
made and laid up for the winter. The water in which 
they are boiled is the basis of Noodle Soup; it needs 
only the addition of a little butter, a tablespoonf ul of 
chopped parsley and a few of the cooked noodles. 

Experimenters have proved that flour in the form 
of noodles and macaroni is more perfectly digested 
than even in bread. 

BREAD MAKIN^G. 

Principles In- go far wc havc uscd in the cooking 

of flour no other principle than the 
simple application of water and heat. We must now 
consider how fine flour is to be made into what is 
known as bread. As before said, the particles easily 
pack together when wet into a pasty dough which, if 
so baked, would defy mastication and digestion. We 
must contrive in some way to separate these flour 
particles by forcing between them air or some other 
gas, so as to present as large a surface as possible to 
the action of the digestive juices and this may be done 
1st, By surrounding these particles by fat, as in mak- 
ing pie-crust; 2d, By the air contained in beaten 
Qgg\ 3d, By forcing carbonic acid gas through the 
mass by the action of ( a ) yeast, or {b) oi bi-carbo- 
nate of soda acting on some acid. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH FAT. 

Pie-crust. The familiar example of this method 

is pie-crust, where a paste of water and flour is re- 



paftcteuFrufte nub ^rob buvd} (£tcr aufgcgangcn 92 

3D^ e Ij I b u r d; g e 1 1 a u f g e g a n 13 e n. 

™ . , f, ®a§ hctanntc 33cii'ptet con bicj'er 3D^es 

4Sa1teteniru|te. ^^^^^^ .^-^ ^.^ ^aftetenfrufte, bet racier ein 

au§ 2Ba[fer unb iRel^l angemad)ter ^eig raiebcr^olt auf 
einer geltforte, rcie @rfjrDeinefd)mal3, gerotit unb au^ges 
breitet roirb, bi^ ber 3;;etg ^u papierbicfen Sagen geraorben 
ift, groifd^en xvddjcn ]\6) gctt beftnbet. SSenn ergebacfen 
iDtrb, be^nt fid) bie Suft aug imb trennt bie3JZeIjltI;eild)en 
oon einanber, tt)orau§ rairflidje l^etdjttgfcit beSfelben cnU 

(Sg mug jebod^ gur ©rlartgung bicfeS D^cfuUateg fo uiel 
gett Derraenbet roerben, bo§ bie Slnroenbung biefer We- 
tl^obe [ic^ felbftoerftdnblid) auf "1)^ .I^erftelifung uou 3Zac^; 
ti|"d)gerid)ten befc^rduft, t)on raeld^en nid)t ciel auf eius 
mat genoffen rairb. — ^in an ©tdrfereic^eg Mcf}i ift fiir 
biefe ^xocde beffer, al§ cin ^'lebermer;L 

9J^eI;l burc^ @ter aufgegangen. 

SDie nddift einfad^fte Wd'^oht beg ^o^eng mit Wtf)l 
ift bie @infii!^rung con :2uft, hk fi(^ an gejdjlageneg @i 
an^dngt, graifdien feine 2:§eilc^en unb hie ^iusbeljuung 
biefer Suft burd^ unuerraeilte Stnroenbung Don SSdrme unb 
3luffteifung ber fo Don 2n^t burc^brungeucn 9}Zaffe» 
jDurd) biefe 9D^et!^obe wirb feine ber D^a^jrungggrunblagcn 
oerborben, wie hn ber 5Inn)enbung con ^c^t, and) hhiht 
!eirt d^emifd)eg @al^ im 3:eig juriid, roie hd ber (^inroirfs 
ung oon ©oba, atlein fie ift foftfpielig unb in i^rer %nc 
icenbung auf bag befc^rdnft, mag man feine 33rob[orten 
unb £u^en nennt. 

SSir ijaben folgenbe SJlifd^ung alg ©runbkge f iir (Sier? 
brob auggemdl^lt; felbftoerftanblid^ finb aud) nod) anbere 
moglid^: 
©runblage tJOtt 1 Ouart '^ild), 3 ^ier, 1 (gg^ffelDoa 

eierbcob. 33utter unb cin i^eeloffel ©alj. 

S)ie[e 3[Rif(^ung mirb mit irgcnb einer 9)Zel;lforte ober 
mit einem %^di $fld)l unb eincm 3:^ci( S3rob, gefod^tem 
Dfieig, gefoc^tem .I^omin^ ober aBeIfd)fornbrei oerbidt» 



92 Piecrust and Egg- Raised Breads. 

peatedly rolled and spread with some fat, as lard, until 
the paste is in paper-thick layers with the fat between. 
When baked, the air expands and separates the flour 
particles, a true lightness being the result. 

So much fat must be employed to produce this re- 
sult, however, that the use of this method will of course 
be limited to the construction of dessert dishes, of 
which not much is eaten at once. 

A flour rich in starch is better for this purpose 
than a gluten flour. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH EGG. 

The next most simple method of cooking fine flour, 
is to introduce between its particles the air adherent 
to beaten egg^ and by the immediate application of 
heat to expand the air and stiffen the mass thus ae- 
rated. By this method none of the food principle 
is wasted as when yeast is used, nor is a chemical salt 
left in the dough as in. the action of soda, but the 
method is expensive and is limited in its use to what 
may be called fancy breads and cakes. 

We have selected the following mixture as the 
foundation for Qgg breads; of course others are pos- 
sible: 

Foundation of 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon but- 
egg breads. ter and 1 teaspoon salt. 

This mixture is then thickened with any kind of 
flour, or with part flour and part bread, boiled rice, 
boiled hominy or corn mush. 

To mix. First beat the eggs very light, whites and 
yolks separately, then the yolks smoothly with the 
flour and milk, stir the whites in at last very lightly 



9D^ t f (f) u n g. ©d^Iage erft 'Die @ter ^u leid^tem 
®d)aum, 'Oa^ SBei^e unb ©tlbe con einanber getrennt, 
fd^tage bann bie SDotter leirfjt mit bem 3D^e^I unb ber 
Wild); rii^re ba§ SKeige jule^t fe^r Ieid)t ein unb hade 
nnvex^uQlidg, ^le @ier muffen 3U fe^r letrfitem ©cfiaum 
gefc^lagen unb ber ^eig gerabe bttf genug gemac^t roer^ 
ben, ha^ ex nod^ fliegen !ann;bunner, algroenn feine@ier 
oerraenbet roerben. 

SSe{gen=, ©ra^ant* ®tB ju ber obigen TOfd^ungSa 

ober SO^ai^= grunbloige ein $int jeber btefer 

aSfannfud^en. 3^e^l[orten gu. 

5pfQun!uc^en bon @ib ^u ber TOfc^ungSgrunblage 

gefDcf)tem 3f{ei0, etne ^af[e We^l unb jroei Xaffen ge? 

|omin^ obet f oc^ten Of^eig, Jpomint) ober Tlai^hxei 

mamvei, q^-^^ ^^roportionen fonnen and) umges 

fe^rt raerben). SSacfe in Heinen, ^iemlid^ bidden i^ud^en. 

2Benn fie \id) an bie ^fanne feftMngen, gib etroaS mebr 

mei)l an. 

Srobt)fann!ucfien ®^^ ^" ^^^ 9J^ifrf)ung§grunblage 

^romannfuc^en. ^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^ ^^^^^^ 33robf rume, 

hie in 3[Ri(d^ oberSSaffer aufgeroeid^t unb glatt jerftampft 
roorben ift. '3^ex ^eig fotlte giemlic^ bidf [ein. ^ade in 
fleinen ^ud)en, inbem i)u nod) etraa^ SD^efilgugibft, raenn 
fie fid^ anl^dngen. 

aWuffinS unb aRufftnS unb ^affeln atter %xt roerben 

SBaffeln. ^vie ^fannfud^en oerfertigt, jebod) etxoa^ 

fteifer mit 2Jiel^I gemac^t. 

3lnbere (Sierteiae o. ^"^^!' .^"""^ ®^^^ aufgegangene 
^inoere uerteige. ^^.^^^ ^.^ .^ ^^^^^ oerfrfiiebenen $ro. 

•portionen gemifd^t unb auf etraa^ anbere 2Beife gefodjt 
raerben, raie ^rapfd^en (fritter?), 33i§cuit unb 
^eigpubbinge, roirb man in einer anberen ^bt^eilung 
finben. 

We^l \>uxd) ^ol^lenfauregaS aufge; 
g an g e n. 

^ie§ rairb beroerfftelligt burd^ (a) ha^ SSadfjStl^um ber 
16 



93 Yeast Breads. 

and bake immediately. The eggs must be beaten 
ver^ light, and the batter just of good pouring con- 
sistency, thinner than if no eggs were used. 
Wheat, Graham Add to above foundation mixture a 
^'^^akes.^^" scant pint of either of these flours. 
Add to the foundation mixture one 
Hominy or cup of flour and twocupsof boiled rice, 
Corn Mush hominy or corn mush ( or the propor- 
tions may be reversed ). Bake in small, 
rather thick cakes. If they stick to the griddle add 
a little more flour. 

Add to the foundation mixture 1 cup 

Bread Pancakes. ^ ^ c\ i,j -u J.^ ± 

flour and 2 cups bread crumbs that 
have been soaked soft in milk or water and mashed 
smooth. The batter should be rather thick. Bake 
in small cakes adding more flour if they stick. 
Muffins and Muffins and waffles of all sorts are 

Waffles. made like pancakes, but a little stiffer 

with flour. 

Other egg-raised doughs, mixed in 
eregg ug ' gQjjiewhat different proportions and 
differently cooked, as fritters, sponge cakes and bat- 
ter puddings, will be found in another section. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH CARBON"IC ACID GAS. 

This is brought about hj (a) the growth of the 
yeast plant or by the action ( ^ ) of bicarbonate of soda 
on some acid. Both of these methods have their ad- 
vantages. 

The action of the yeast plant when 
Yeast 

brought into contact with flour and 

water is to develop carbon dioxide gas and alcohol. 
This it does at the expense of the little sugar already 



2X>ci§=Brob. 94 

^cfepflatije ober (b) hnvd) hie SSirfung oon boppelfo)^; 
lenfaurem 9^atrum auf eine ©dure. ^^dhc SJiet^oben 
l^aben ii)re 3Sovtl)e{Ie. 

^ . '3)ie 3Biv!ung ber .^^[t'pflanje, roenn fie mit 

^ ' ■ Wlc^ unb SSaffer in ^eriil^rung gcbrad)t rairb, 
tft bie (§ntit)i(flung Don ilol^lenbiorr)b;@ag unb ^Ufof^ol. 
i){e§ bringt fie auf Soften be§ 33i§d[)eng 3iicf^^f^^"ttg, ber 
bereitS tm 30^el;l entl^atten ift, nod) meii mel^r auf Soften 
beffen, raa§ fie au§ bent (Starfme^t, ober, raie (Sinige bes 
l^aupten, au§ bem ^teber fabrijirt. ®er (^Ijemitcx vcn 
ftd)ert, bie[er 35erluft an ^dljrftoff gefie 6i6 ^u 1 ^ro^, 
unb Siebig, ber biefer Tlct^ohe bc§ 5lufge^enmad)en§ 
Don 33rob ftreng opponirt, oeroufdjlagt, ha^ 40,5 
000 ^erfonen mit bem 9)^eI;Ie gendl^rt roerben fonn^ 
icn, ha§ auf btefe Seife in ST^eutfdiranb allein 
Derfd)n)enbet merbe. Ungead)tet biefer ^erfdiraenbung 
aber heljan-ptd fid) biefe 3U?etl^obe nod) immer racgen i{)rer 
S3equeml^eit nnb be§ guten ©efc^madeg, ben fie bem 
33robe vexUiljt. 

^ie 3^^^ ^'^^^^ "^<^^ ^^^^ U^^ U^^f ^" n)el(^er ber 
33dder un§ beffere§ unb bi.digereg ©rob liefert, al§ toir 
un§ felbft in unferen 5l'iicl^en bereiten fonnen. ®a§ ift 
auf bem europdifd^en Continent fc^on Idngft ber J^tt, 
aber rair finb au§ irgenb einem @runbe nod^ nid)t hei 
biefem $un!te ber (Sioilifation angelangt, unb hie ^au§i 
l^alterin mug nod^ immer biefe Jl^unft lernen unb au§iiben, 
benn guteS Srob ift eine S^^otl^menbigfeit. 

Oualttat beg gjle^B. ^^^^^^ ba§ biaigfte/meil ee. mel)r 
unb beffere§ 33rob per ^funb ergibt. Tlan foUtc ftct^ 
jraeierlei ©orten im 3Sorrat() r)alten, ha§ gelblid)e, tl)eure 
^lebermel)( jum 33robbaden unb hie meigere, billigere 
©orte ju ^aftetcn, ilud)en unb ,^u 33erbidungen. 

3um Qe\ema(i}en rairb fein D^tecept gegeben, meiT hie 
^reg^efe fo ciel beffer ift, al§ hie, iveld)e hie .gauSfrau 
5U mac^en oermag unb hie iei^t felbft in Jleinen Oxt\6)a\'. 
ten erlangt merben fann. 



94 White Bread. 

in the flour, but still more at the expense of that 
which it manufactures out of the starch, or as some 
say, out of the gluten. The chemist ascertains this 
loss of nutritive matter to be as high as 1%, and Lie- 
big, who was strongly opposed to this method of 
bread raising, estimated that 40,000 people might be 
fed on the flour that was wasted in this way in Ger- 
many alone. But notwithstanding this waste, the 
method, on account of its convenience and the good 
taste it gives to bread, still holds its ground. 

The time cannot be far distant when the baker will 
furnish us better and cheaper bread than we can 
make in our own kitchens. This has long been the 
case on the continent of Europe, but for some reason 
we have not yet reached that point in civilization 
and the housekeeper must still learn this art and 
practice it, for good bread is a necessity. 

The best flour is, even for the poor, 

Quality of flour. , i , j. -j. i j u i. 

the cheapest, as it makes more and bet- 
ter bread to the pound. There should always be two 
kinds kept on hand; the yellowish, high-priced gluten 
flour for bread making, and the whiter, cheaper sort 
for pastry, cake and thickenings. 

No recipe for making yeast will be given, as the com- 
pressed yeast is so much better than the house-wife 
can make, and is now obtainable even in small towns. 
Proportions. 1 quart warm water, 

To make bread. ^^ ,/i x •n -i j. ^ ^ 

2i qts. (about) of flour, 1 tablespoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon or one cake of compressed yeast, or 
^ cup liquid yeast. The proportions of flour and 
water differ according to the quality of the flour, the 
gluten flours taking up much more water than the 
starch flours. 



2t)ct§=2Srob. 95 

?Avns „, rrt^rf,o« ^toportioneiu 1 Ouart roarmeg 

^ ^ 5Bo[fer, 2^ Ouart (unge|ar)r) mc^l, 
eirten (S^toffel »o(I ©0(5, einen ©poffct vo\i ober ein 
Xdfeld)en ^regl^efe ober | 3:a[[e fluffiger ^cfe. ^te 
^roportionen von 9[ReI)[ unb 2Ba[[er finb je nad) bcr 
Oualitdt i)e§ 2}le!f)Ic§ oerfd^teben, ha hk kUhcxmel)U 
mel^r Staffer in fid) aufne^men, al§ bte (Stdrfmefjle, 

©(^iitte ba§ 3}lep unb ©alj in ®eiue ©robbacfmulbe 
unb mac^e etne 35ertie[ung in ber 9}litte; gte^e bann nad^ 
unb nad) ba§ SSaffer l^inein, in xveldjem 'oie ^efe aufges 
16ft tft, unb menge hcim ,g)ineingie§en mit bcr .fianb ober 
einem 9^uI;rIoffe( burdjetnanber. ©obalb i)k Wa\]c ^u^ 
fammenl^dlt, nimm fie auf ein Jlnetebrett l^erauS unb 
Dcrarbeite fie mit mel^IBeftreuten Jpjdnben aUma^lid) ^u 
einem ^arten Xeige, mobei fo menig 9[}tel)I mie moglic^ 
^u gebraud)en ift, benn ber 3:eig mug fo roeic^ Meiben, 
raie er fid) l^anb^aben Idgt. ®icfe§ erfte ^ncten foUte 
15 — 20 9J?inuten lang bauern. ®ann laffe ba§ Srob an 
einem marmen ^la^e gefjen, hk^c^e-pfian'^e tann in einer 
jt;emperatur Don 30 — 170° %al}xen'^cit leBen, gebeil^t aber 
am hc\im bet ungefdl^r 72^. ®ede e§ mit eincmXud) 3U 
unb l^alte e§ im Winter neben einem marmen Ofen. SSenn 
er mit ^regl^efe gemac^t mirb, mirb ber ^eig ^um erften 
TlaU in einer ©tunbe aufgel^en. ^limm iljn l^erauS, 
fobalb er gum erften Altaic leic^t mirb, elje er miebcr gus 
fammenjufaHcn bcginnt (er fotlte burd)aug mie eine ^a 
nigmabe fein unb bag 3)oppelte ober ©reifadje oon fcinem 
urfpriinglidjcn Umfang l^aben), bring il;n auf ®ein 
^netebrett, ober and) nur bie ^dlfte bauon auf einmal, 
unb fnete i()n tiid)tig, hi§ er micber fein unb jart ift. 
@ib bieSmal fein Md)l gu, fonbcrn i)alte hie .gdnbe mit 
roarmem Staffer ober mit "^Jlild) ober aud; mit ©d^malj 
feud^t. %^eiie iljn in 2aihe ein — Heine — , mddje bie mit 
^ett beftrid}cucn 33Icd;e blo^ jur .^dlftc au^fiillcn, unb 
laffe fie micbcr gcljcn, inbcm aDu fie in bcr glcid^en 
j^emperatur I;dltft unb mieber fcljr Uid)t merbcn ldgt» 



95 



White Bread. 



Put the flour and salt into your bread pan and 
make a hole in the middle, then pour in gradually the 
water in which the yeast has been dissolved, mixing 
as you pour with your hand or with a spoon. As 
soon as the mass will hold together, take it out on a 
moulding board and with floured hands work it grad- 
ually into a tender dough, using as little flour as possi- 
ble, for the dough must remain as soft as can be 
handled. This first moulding should take from 15 
to 20 minutes. Then let the bread rise in a warm 
place ; the yeast plant can live in a temperature 
ranging from 30° to 170° F. but thrives best at about 
72°. Cover with a cloth and in winter keep by a warm 
stove. If made with compressed yeast, the dough will 
rise the first time in an hour. Take it at its first 
lightness, before it begins to sink back (it should be 
like a honeycomb all through, and double or treble 
its original bulk), put it on your moulding board, or 
-J of it at a time, and mould it well until it is fine 
and tender again. Add no flour this time but keep 
the hands moist with warm water or milk or with 
lard. Divide into loaves — small ones — which should 
only half fill the greased tins, and set again to rise, 
keeping it at the same temperature and letting it get 
very light again. Flour that is rich in gluten requires 
longer to rise than that containing more starch. 

It is difiicult to give directions about 
ing re . ^^^ heat of the oven. One housekeeper 
says " hot enough so that you can hold your hand in 
till you count twelve," another, ^* until you can count 
thirty," and the puzzled novice can only inquire 
*^ how fast do you count?" The oven must be hot 



XVex%-3vob. ^g 

mel)l ha^^ xcid) an jllcber ift, hvaud)t langere ^eit mm 
@el;en, al^ ^oid)c§ haQ md)x (Btdvte entljdlt. '' 

S3robbato. , .f ^ j^^^ ^^^"'^^^ 3tntt)eifungen iibcv bie 
^it^e beg S3acfofeng 311 gcben. ®ie eine 
pan^aUenn fagt: J;cig genug, fo ha^ ^u ®eine J^anb 
^ineinfjarten fannft, big ®u graolf sdljfft", etne Qubere* 
big S)u bveigig gdr^leit famift/' iinb ber fonfug gemacbte 
^euling tann hann blog frogen: ,,3Sie fdjiiea gd^len 
©le?" ®er 33acfofen mug Ijeife genug fein, wm bag ^rob 
in gefjit 9Jhnuten hidjt 311 brdunert unb einen fleinen 
^roblaib tn sraan^tg 3}^inuteu big einer balben ©tunbe 
3U bacfen. 

aSeitere X^atfaAen, . ^'""/^ ^equemer tft, faitn guerft 
ctit 33rob[auerteig mit bcm 3Ba[]er, ber 
.^efe unb einem Zl)ciie beg 2DhI)rg gemod^t n)ert)en, unb 
roeun er aufgegangen ift, tann man hen dlcft beg mehle^ 
augeben. 3^teg befdjleunigt hm g^rojeg etraag. 

me oft forf bag ^affe bog 23rob nic^t irier;r aU mdmal 

«robgef)en? ger;en; eg rerliert ieb^gmal ettrag ron 

fetnen ital;renben ^'-igenfdjQften. ©iumat gegangeneg 

33rob t|t grobftnnig, ober angeuel;m fiir ben @e[d;macf. 

«rob lang gu ^alten. ^l'^' ^^ F^"^*^^ «^^ ^''^^^ ^«§ 5o^b 
gegeffen roirb. 

mgefc^redter 3:eig. .. f .'!'. ^^' 23robbadmurbe unoer. 
aughc^ tn eine groHere, bie mit mars 
mem SSaffer gefiiat i\t, unb fomie bng SSaffer t)erfu{)a, 
erfet^e eg mit marmem, big ber 3:eig mieber ^u gel;en bes 
ginnt. 

Xeig, ber ira^renb ®iefe ^^etljobe ift oft bequem unb 
ber ^ad)t gel;t. etgnet ]xd) fel^r gut, menu langfamer 
rairfenbe Jf)e[t benul^t mirb, aber eg ift bcffer S3rDb rafd^ 
mit ^^rcgljefe gef)en ^u mad;en. 3Senn hie le^tere hcnn^t 
mirb, ift cin ^Normittag fiir bog ^cxfai)xen beg 33rob^ 
madjeng unb S3acfeng I)inreid;enb. 



96 White Bread. 

enough to brown the bread lightly in ten minutes, 
and to bake a small loaf in from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. 

If more convenient, a bread sponge 

Additional facts. , , , n , -.i .i , 

may be made at nrst with the water, 
yeast, and part of the flour, and when light, the rest 
of the flour added. It hastens the process a little. 
How many times Do not let the bread rise more than 

shall bread rise? twice; it loses each time some of its 
nutritive qualities. Bread raised 07ice is coarse of 
■grain but sweet to the taste. 
To keep bread Mould it harder than you do bread 

lo^^- that is to be eaten soon. 

Dough that has Set the bread pan immediately into 

become chiUed. a larger One filled with warm water and 
as the water cools replace with warm until the dough 
begins to rise again. 
Dough raised du- This method is often convenient, and 

ring the night, ^oes Very Well if slower yeast is used, 
but bread is better to be raised quickly with com- 
pressed yeast. If the latter is used a forenoon is suf- 
ficient for. the process of making and baking. 
To delay the ^^^ Convenience, as to make warm 

baking of bread biscuits for supper, rising dough may 

dough. Y)Q kept at a standstill for hours with- 

out injury at a temperature of about 50°, as in a cel- 
lar, and an hour before baking brought into a warm 
room to finish the rising process. 

BREADS FROM OTHER FLOURS. 

Graham bread. Graham bread is made like white 

bread using two parts graham to one 

of white flour, or any other proportion liked, but it 



Sdixvav^hvob. 57 

SSer^dgerung beg 3"v 33equemlid)feit, tcte Bei ber ©es 
^^^^s^ .^on reitung warmer 2Secfen ^um STbenbeffen, 
^robteig. fa„n „^(i„ ^^^ ge^enben STeig ©tunben 

long oljite ^ac^tFjeit bei einer ^emperatur won 50'' tm 
©ttaftanb l^arten, rate 5. ^. in einem better, unb eine 
(btunbe oor bem S3acfen in dn raormeg ^tmmer Bringen 
urn ben ^ro^eg be§ ©e^eng 3U (gube 311 fii^ren. 

33robe au§ anberen 9}Ze^rforten, 
®ra^am-33rob @ra^Qm=33rDb wixh xv'u 3SetProb ge= 

mac^t, inbem man ^raet STfjeife ©raBam^ 
au emem ^^etle SSeigmeljI ober irgenb etiier Qitbeven $ro= 
portion hie ^inem gefdUt, i^enii^t, akr eg fottte fe&r 
fanft burc^einanber gemengt raerben. ©traag ^ucfer unb 
^dt ift a^^ugeBen, ein egrofferooa ©c^toetne-. ober a^tnbg= 
fc^mala unb atoei epoffcroottSucfer ober 3J?olaffe. ^acfe 
langfamer nnh longer als SBefprob. 

3)er gen)D^nrid;e unb fcequemfte SSeg ^ur ^erferttgung 
von (55ra^am=^rob ift, md)l unh anbere S3eftanbt^etle 
mit bem n^eigen ©auertetg am 33a(ftage ^u cermengen. 
3{cqqen5rob ,^oggenbrob wirb genau ebenfo gema^t, 
tt)ie ba§ S3rob aug 3Sei3enmerj(, in unferem 
^onbe ttber wivh aagemein 1 Zi)nl 9^oggen=, 2 ^^etle 
Mai^c unb eine ^anboott SBeijenmerjl Dcrraenbet. ©g 
mug Diet ranger bacfen— 2— 3 ©tunben in langfam 
bacfenbem 0[en. 9?oc^ ]&ef[er ift eg, bagfelBe hie erften 
2 (Stunben mit ® ompf ju ]fod)en unb in ber britten ^u Bacfen. 
ajJaiSbrob ^«i^6i"ob mirb aug 3 ^tjeilen 2}^aig. gu 
• einem 5:f;eire 3Seiaenme^I, berfelBen Ouanti. 
tat .gefe unb ©alj, mie fiir SBeiprob, unb einer ^ugaBe 
oon 2 (SgBffeln ooH ©^roeinefc^mora ober 9^inbgfett nebft 
araet (S§tDffetn voU ^ucfer gemac^t. ©g braudjt blog 
umgeriitirt, nic^t gefnetet ^u loerben unb blog einmal ^u 
gel^en. 

S3 igcuitg, „35ung" u. f. m. 

f5rii^ftud§tt)ec!en ® ieg finb „ 33ri)bcfien " oon 3Sei§=: ober 

ober^i^cmtg. ©ra^am . a?^e^l, Wa^e aug einem 



17 



97 Broiun Breads. 

should be mixed very soft. A little sugar and fat 
should be added, 1 tablespoon lard or beef fat and 2 
tablespoons sugar or molasses. Bake slower and long- 
er, than white bread. 

The usual and most convenient way of making 
graham bread is to mix the flour and other ingredi- 
ents with some of the white sponge on baking day. 

Rye bread is made exactly as is bread 
ye rea . from wheat flour, but in this country 

4 parts rye, 1 part corn meal, and a handful of wheat 
flour are generally used. It must bake much longer 
— two to three hours in a slow oven. It is still better 
steamed the first two hours and baked the third. 

Corn bread is made of 3 parts corn 
meal to 1 of wheat flour, same quantity 
of yeast and salt as for white bread, and an addition 
of 2 tablespoons lard or beef fat and two tablespoons 
sugar. It is only to be stirred, not moulded, and need 
rise but once. 

BISCUITS, BUNS, ETC. 

Breakfast rolls or These are "little breads*' of either 
white or graham flour. Make part of 
the dough out into little balls which will rise more 
quickly and bake in a shorter time, a little butter 
or lard, one tablespoon to a quart of dough being 
generally moulded with it. 

When called "Breakfast Rolls" the dough is made 
out into flat round cakes, the top buttered and folded 
over not quite in the middle. 

Milk rolls are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk instead of water; they 
are very tender and delicate. 
9 



Biscuits, „Suns" u. f. w. 98 

X^eiU beg jteigeS fteine ^ugeln, bie va[(J)er gel^en unb 
in fiiqerer ^dt hadm, roobet getool^nlid) etma^ ©utter 
obcr (Sc^raeinefd^malg, ein ©gloffet voU auf cin Ouart 
^eig l^ineingefnetet rcirb. 

^enn fie ^^riil^ftiirfruecfen'' gcnannt raerben, mad^t man 
ben ^eig 3U flac^en, runben .^uc^en, beftreici^t fie oben mit 
©utter unb fattet fie nid^t gan^ in ber ^Jtittc ^ufammen. 

sm-Tr*, rf SJlilc^roecfen roerben au§ ©robteig ges 

Jjmc^ttJecten. ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^.^^^^ ^^^^^ ^.^ Staffer, an. 

gentad^t ift. @ie finb fe!§r mitrbe unb beliifat. 

35?ei5en=„(35em^" ober @i"^ 3}Zobification tnt 23adfen t)on 
2)rop 93tcuit§. Xeig ift erroaJ^nengroertl^. ©er- 

(Xropfbigcuit^.) raenbe ^u bem ohcn gegebenen die- 
jept \nx ©rob etne ^affe me^r SJ^ild^, fo ha^ ber ^eig 
eben noc^ com Soffel abtropft unb badfe i^n bann in 
gormen im ©adfofen ober in einer langfam bacfenben 
^fanne. 

o . j,..^ ®iefe raerben aug ©robteig mit Wildg uers 

^mie a e. ^j^^j^g^ j^g^|-| g^j^^^ 3i^9^^^ ^^^ 4 (Siern unb 
einer ^affe ©utter auf je dn Ouart 9[)ZiIc^ l^ergefteHt. 
gorme fie lang unb Ijodt). 

5lnbere 95ertt)enbungen (§,§ giebt niererlet ©erroenbungen 
t)on ^wiebadteig. ^i^x ben obigen Steig. ^cnn er in 
©iScuitform gebradjt mfrb, faun er in SDampf gefodit 
unb aU einfadjer Rubbing mit £)h]t genoffen merben, 
ober man formt if^n in minjige ©dUc^en unb fod)t il;n, 
wenn er aufgegangen ift, in SDampfefleifd^; ha§ ©eric^t 
roirb bann ^opfpaftete genannt. 

^ , f . ^iefe finb aljnlid^ mie ^michadc (f. 

©eroiirj, fagen jnir einem l^alben jt^ceroffet ddH '^u^taU 
nu^. Sftotle ben ^eig I gotl bicf au§ unb fd;neibc mit 
einem ©i§cuitfd)neiber. :2af[e il;n ge{;cn, hi§ er fcl;r 
leidit geroorben ift, xvo^u einige ^dt wegen ht^ ^ndcx^ 
gel^ort. 



98 Biscuit, Buns, Etc. 

Wheat gems or One modification in the baking of 
drop biscuits, dough is worthy of mention. Use about 
a cup more milk in mixing the receipt for bread 
given above, so that the dough will jnst drop from a 
spoon and then bake in forms in the oven, or on a slow- 
griddle. 

These are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk and with the addition 
of 4 eggs and 1 cup of butter to a quart of milk. 
Form, long and high. 

other uses for There are many uses for the above 
rusk dough, dough. When made out into biscuit 
shape it may be steamed and eaten as a simple pud- 
ding with fruit, or, made into tiny balls and cooked, 
when light, in a meat stew, the dish being then 
called a pot-pie. 

These are like Busks (above) plus 2 

Buns, plain. . . 

cups of sugar and a little spice, say, ^ 
teaspoon nutmeg. Roll the dough out ^ inch thick, 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let it rise till very 
light, which will take some time on account of the 
sugar. 

To plain buns add 1 cup India cur- 
rants, washed, dried and floured, or 
raisins cut in bits. 

From the recipe for Buns, as above, 

EaisedCake. . . , / ^ ' ^ ' 

a plain and good cake may be made by 
using 1 pint instead of 1 quart of milk to the given 
quantity of eggs, butter and sugar, and adding a lit- 
tle more fruit. Bake in a ribbed pudding dish 
which has been thickly buttered, and in the butter, 
blanched almonds arranged in rows. 



f?cfc.3rob. ^^ 



®TuS?/;" • '■"'"^- 1^"' "^'9^" ^n^Pt f« Suns fa„„ 

^ubbtngge,a§, bag birf mit 33uttev fceftric^en "„„??„ 
Tegl 'p"b '" ' ^'^'^""' ^''"^''" in Stei^cu g": 

©(^malanubeln. . f "n'ctg fanii au^ alS ©c^mnhnubetn 

111 jjett gf|c§mort roerbcn. 
to.ut"& r*^'" ^^^^ biscuit ober Sung eine 

oor bcm SBacfcn mtt einer m erne ber folgenben aRifd)un= 
gen getaucftcn Sebm dn I^eeroflct »oll SKofaffe nnb 
^itcf), jiuci J§ee(ofte[ Burfer unb mild) ober 3 Jfi cloffel 
iJucfer unD baS aSci§e Bon cincm gi -t^ccionel 

Urn bas ricf)tige Ser^altniB obiger Jetgeju einanberm 
jetgen, qt t(;re Quant.tat ber fur SBrobfetg qUi«qef)arten 

ftu(l|en, SBuns ober SBiscuttS roiire fur eine gro§e 3ami(ie 

5)ampfto«en Bon ^^^genb einer ber obigen Jeige fann 
i,»„ \- ^ . '"'t^^ampf getoc^t, ftatt gebacfen n,er= 

ben, t^enn b.es bequemer >|t. ©ie roerben bann uaturli* 
feme braune Aru|te ^aben, tonnen jebod, nacftber nefvorf- 
net unb im SBarfofen gebraunt merben' 8"m lampf: 
foc^en ge^ort ctroa^ langere 3cit, al3 jum SOacten. 

-5 e f e n 6 r b e. — S fl n n. 
Slu^cgongcne SPfannfut^cn. Die TOatcriarien baiu finb 

s-ro fcr rtTf~;- , ^mt, etmag mcbr als l Qf 

iWe^l cm ggloftel ooU ^reg^efe ober i Jaffe paffiger 



S^ Yeast Pancakes. 

Bun dough may also be fried in fat, 

Doughnuts. , , . 

as douglinuts. 
For a fine brown To give a fine crust to biscuit or 
crust. buns: Brush over before baking, with a 

feather dipped in one of these mixtures: one teaspoon 
of molasses and milk, two teaspoons of sugar and 
milk, or three teaspoons sugar and the white of an 

To show the true relation of the above doughs to 
each other, the quantity has been kept the same as 
for bread dough, but one-half the given quantity 
of cake, buns or biscuit would be enough for a large 
family. 

Any of the above doughs can be 

To steam bread. ^ t ^ , • ■ i t ^ ^ ^ • 

cooked by steaming instead oi baking, 
when more convenient. They will of course lack the 
brown crust, but may afterward be dried or browned 
in the oven. A somewhat longer time is required 
for steaming than for baking. 

YEAST BKEADS — THIN". 

Raised Pancakes. The materials for these are, 1 qt. milk, 

Wheat, Graham .,, , . t,,i ■■, 

and Corn. o^" Hiiik and Water, a little more than a 

qt. of flour, 1 tablespoon compressed 
yeast or ^ cup liquid yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon butter; the flour may be wheat flour, wheat 
and graham mixed, or wheat and corn mixed, or 
part bread crumbs may be mixed with the flour. 
Make and raise like bread sponge. It is better they 
should be too thick than too thin, as milk may be 
added to thin them after they are light, but raw flour 
added at that time spoils them. 



Ditrd? Soba aufgegangencs ^rob. ^qo 

^efe, dn X^eeloffer voU ©alj, 1 e^^bffer Dott 33utter; 
bag Wc^ tann SBei^enme^l ober SBet^ens mit @ral)ams 
ajlel;l, ober aSeijen; unb $D^aigme^I cermengt [ein, ober 
tann ein 3:^eit ^robfrumen mit bent Tlc^ gemi[d)t raers 
ben. Wad)c ben ^etg unb laf[e i^n ge(;en, rcie beim 
S3vob;©auerteig. (S§ tft beffev, raenn er ^u bicf aU ju 
biinn ift, ba man 3J?tld; jugeben itann, urn i^n 311 oer; 
biinncn, nad)bem er aufgegangen ift, bie SiiSQ'^^ ^on 
roI)em 9Jle(jl aber in biefem ^eitpunft oerbirbt i^n. 
^fannfuc^en mit @i6 311 bem obigen 5;eig unmittelbar 
(Siern. y^^^ ^jem 33acfen 1, 2 ober 3 (gier, ©el^ 

beg unb 2Bei§e§ befonberg ^erfleppert. 35ern)enbe in bie^ 
fem galle etn)a§ meniger SD^e^l. 
Spfiufftng unb !j)ie[e fonnen au§ irgenb einem ber obigen 

SKaffeln. ^fannfu^teigen mit einer ^affe hi^ 1 ^int 
mel§r SJiep gemad)t raerben. 

^uc^raeijenmei^r. 

SSucEimei^en gibt Mt^, ha^ von ^enen, metd^c an 
feinen ctn)a§ eigentl^iimltdjen ©efd^madf gemt)^nt [inb, 
fe!§r gern genoffen mirb, in unferem Sanbe aber mirb e§ 
nur 3U ^fannfu(i)en oermenbet. 

m ^ • cnr t jt 1 Ouart S3urf)n)ei;ienmeM, 1 

SBuc^meigen^^fannfuc^en. ^r^eetoffelooa ©als/eine iaffe 

ober etraaS meniger Mai^mc^ in ttma^ ^Saffer abge; 
brii^t, 2 '^^eelbffelooH SJlolaffe (um fie braun ju mad)en 
—tiwa§ 33uttermi(c^ t^ut biefelben3)ienfte), 1 Stfjeeloffel? 
Dotl ^reg^efe, 1 Ct. marmeg 2Ba[[er, ober genug 3U 
einem biinnen 2:eig. :2affe i^n iiber ^Zac^t gel^en. 
Mt'i)l burd^ (Soba aufgegangen. 

5luf ber(Sinmirfung ODnboppetfoI;len|aurem 
9^atron unb oerfc^iebener ©duren, burd; raeld)e 
^'ol^lenfauregag frei roirb, beru^t eim gen)0^nlid)e 9J?e= 
t^obe beg ©e^enmac^eng oon ^eigen. ^iefelbe oers 
fd)n}enbet nic^tg t)on bem SJ^cf)!, raie bie ^efe,, aber fie 
l^at and) i^re eigencn 9ia^t^eile. ^ag ^^robuct bicfer 
auf einanber einioirfenben (S^cxnitaVun ift ein ®alg, 



100 Soda Raised Breads. 

Pancakes with ^^^ ^^ the above batter just before 
egrgs. baking, 1, 2 or 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

Muffins and beaten separately. Use in this case some- 
waffles. ^i^at less flour. 

These can be made of either of the above pancake 
batters, with 1 cup to 1 pt. more flour. 

BUCKWHEAT FLOUR. 

Buckwheat flour makes bread that is relished by 
those accustomed to its somewhat peculiar taste, but 
in this country it is used only in pancakes. 
Buckwheat Pan- 1 c[t. buckwlieat flour, 1 tcaspoon 
cakes. gait, 1 cup or less of corn meal scalded 

in a little water, 2 teaspoons molasses ( to make them 
brown — a little buttermilk answers the same pur- 
pose), 1 tablespoon compressed yeast, 1 qt. warm 
water, or enough to make a thin batter. Let rise 
over night. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH SODA. 

Soda. On the interaction of bicarbonate of 

soda and different acids, by which carbonic acid gas 
is liberated is based a common method of raising 
doughs. It wastes none of the flour, as does yeast, 
but it has its own disadvantages. The product of 
these chemicals acting on each other is a salt which 
is left in the bread; hydrochloric acid acted on by 
soda gives common salt, to which there could be no 
objection, but this method is not easily used in the 
household, and the salts left by other acids, as the lac- 
tic acid of milk when acted on by bicarbonate of soda, 
we get enough of in other dishes. Whether reliable 
experiments have been made as to the comparative 



riTctl^obert. tot 

toeld^e^ tm 33rob juriicfMetbt; (S^Iorraafferftofffaurc in 
ber ^{ntt)irfung auf ©oba gibt geti)o]^nUc{)e§ ©alj, gegen 
bag fic^ ntd;t§ einraenben Id^t, allein biefe 3D^etI;obe Ici^t 
fid) im .gauS^lt nid)t leidjt anraenben, unb t)on anbercn 
(Sduven ^uriirfgelajfene ©alje, it)ie con ber ©dure 
ber Wild), xvenn boppelfo^lenfaiireS D^atron auf fie etn= 
mivtt, er^alten tcir genug in anbercn ©eric^ten. 06 
juuerldffige ©rperimente ii6er hie oergleid^^iDcife 33erbau5 
Itd^feit Don 33roben, hie mit ©oba unb foldjen, hie mit 
,^e[e geljcn gemadjt rourbcn, angeftetit rcorbcn finb, iftber 
^erfnfferin unbefannt, aiidn eg l^errfc^t hie raeitDerbret? 
tete SQ^einung, ha^ erftere nur gelegentlic^ genoffen rven 
hen foKten, unb geraig ift, ha^ rvix fie rafdjer miibe roer^ 
hen, a(g .giefebrobe. 9^eben6ct — unb hie^ ift t)on 33ebeu2 
tung fiir jemanb, ber mit Wild), @iern ufro. l^auS^alten 
mug — miiffen ^u @oba beffere 9D?atertalien oerroenbet 
roerben, alg ju §efe, tuenn ein 33rob ober Stni^en oon 
gleid^ retd^em @e[c^made erjielt raerben fod. 

gjiet^oben. 
2Btr I^aben bret SJiet^oben ber 35ern)enbung con boppels 
fofjienfaurem $Ratron ^um ©el^enmac^en be§ We^ie^; 
burc^ fetne 2Birfung auf 

1) S)ie ©dure, hie in faurer Tlildi) ent^alten ift, rooBei 
1 — 2 X^eeloffet ©oba gu einem Ouart 30^i(c^ uermenbet 
UJerben. 

2) 2luf 2Beinftetn, mobet bte ^roportionen l^I;eetoffel 
©oba gu 2 ^i^eetoffeln 3Beinftein fiir ein Oaart Weljl 
ftnb. 

3) 5(uf SSetnftein; ober anbere 6ereit§ mit il^r in einem 
35acfputr)er gemifd)te ©duren, hie nad) ben auf ben ^arfe^ 
ten gegebenen SInmeifungcn ^u cermenben finb, ober Id§t 
fic^ im SlKgemeinen fagen, ha^ brei X^eeloffer oon bem 
^uluer auf jebe§ Ouart ^e(;l fommen. 

S)a§ ©e^eimni^ ^a§ ©e^eimnig be§ ©rfotgg bei 

beg (Srfolgg. 33rob, ha§ mit ©oba gefjcn gemac^t 

ttJorbcn ift, beftel^t (1) in hex t)ott!ommenen 33ermengung 



101 Soda Raised Breads. 

digestibility of breads raised with soda and those 
raised with yeast the writer does not know, but there 
is a wide-spread im^Dression that the former should 
be eaten only occasionally, and it is certain that we 
tire of them sooner than of yeast breads. Besides, 
which is of importance to one who must economize in 
milk, eggs, &c., better materials must be used with 
soda than with yeast to produce an equally rich tasting 
bread or cake. 

METHODS. 

We have three methods of using bicarbonate of 
soda to raise flour; by its action on 

1. The acid contained in sour milk, from 1 to 2 
teaspoons of soda being used to a quart of milk. 

2. On cream of tartar, the proportions being 1 tea- 
spoon soda to 2 of cream of tartar to a quart of flour. 

3. On tartaric or other acids already mixed with it 
in a baking powder and to be used according to di- 
rections on the package, or, one may say in general, 
that three teaspoons of the powder go to every quart 
of flour. 

The secret of success in making soda 

Secret of Success. • -, ^ -> • j. • / -. \ xi 

raised breads consists m ( 1 ) the per- 
fect mixing of the soda and cream of tartar or the 
baking powder, with the flour, cooks who are par- 
ticular sieving these ingredients five times. In this 
connection we cannot urge too strongly that each 
housewife should make and keep on hand this pre- 
pared flour; in a leisure time she can measure, sieve 
and mix it, and she has then in making biscuit or cake, 
only to chop in the butter, add the milk and eggs 
and it is done. 



5oba=Biscuits. ^02 

ber ®oba unb be§ S^Beinfteing obcv beg ^Barfpulocrg mit 
bent 9J^el)le; ^oc^e, bie befonber^ genau [inb, fieOcn biefe 
Sngrebtenjien fiinfmaL 3n biefem ^"[Qnti^en^ange 
foiinen xoiv jeber ^ouSfrau nic^t ftavf genug einfd^drfen, 
bag fie biefeS prdparirte Wd)i anfertigen unb gur $anb 
l^alten fodte: tn ber ajJuge^eit !ann fie baSfefbe abmeffen, 
fieben unb mifd^en, unb rocnn fie bann ^iScuit ober 
^u^cn madden will, brand^t fie 6(0^ gutter Ijineinjus 
fc^neiben, Mili^ unb @ier jujugeben unb bann ift hie 
©ad;e ge[d^el;cn. 

2) ^n Ieid;ter 35ermengung ber (Stoffe jum ^J^iirbe^ 
ma^en mit hem d)M)U; am Beften fann hk^ mit hem 
.gadfmeffer ge[c^e!^en. 

3^ ^n hex rafd^en (Srrebtgung ber Arbeit, nad^bem hie 
graet 3lufgel^emitte( nag geroorben finb unb ^u rairfen 
begonnen l^aben, unb im unoer^ogerten 33acfen, njenn ^lls 
Ie§ berett ift. 

6oba'S8i§cuit§ Sngrebienjten. 1. Ouart aJlel;!, 1 

(S5ooa^-otgcuu0. ^f^ggt^^f^^ @^^^^ 1 egloffet 33utter ober 

95utter unb @(^n)eine[d^mal,5, ober and; gutter unb 9lierens 
fett, ein fnappeg ^int fitger SJZil^ ober 3Sa[[er ntit 
einem X^eeloffet ©oba unb gtoet 3:;I;ee(offe[n SSeinftein, 
obex brei S^tjeeloffet 33acfpuIoer; ober ein fnappeg ^int 
Jauier Tlil^ nebft einem X^eeroffel @oba unb cinem 
X^eeloffet SBeinftein; wenn hie Wlii^ fe^r fauer ift, kf[e 
hen SBeinftein n)eg. 

33 e r e 1 1 u n g. ^n einer .gadmulbe riil^re We§ gut 
burd^einanber mit 5{u§nal§me bc§ %ette^ gum SD^itrbmas 
madden unb ber Wil&); bann 1§ a df e t)a§ gctt,, ha§ talt 
unb f)art fein fotlte, |inein, hi^ 5llle§ fein unb gutburd;^ 
einanber gemengt ift. 9^un gib bie Mild), nur rcenig auf 
einmat, gu, mobei nod^ immer mit bem ,g)adme[fer burd[)5 
einanber gemengt mirb. 9Zimm e§ bann auf ha§ S^eigs 
brett l^erauS unb mede au§, inbem ^u fo menig, toie 
moglid^, burd^cinanber mengft. 

liefer ^eig mirb oft nod^ fetter gemad)t, inbcm man 
fogar 1 ^affe Sutter auf 1 Ouart SJiel;!: ocrmenbet, allein 



102 Soda Biscuits, 

2. In light mixing of the shortening with the flour; 
this is best accomplished with a chopping knife. 

3. In a rapid completion of the work after the two 
raising agencies have become wet and begun to work, 
and no delay in baking when all is ready. 

Ingredients. 1 qt. of flour, 1 tea- 

Soda Biscuits. ii-ij.ii i i^ - i - 

spoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, or but- 
ter and lard, or butter and suet, 1 scant pint stveet 
milk or water with 1 teaspoon soda and two of cream 
of tartar, or three teaspoons of baking powder; or, 1 
scant pint sour milk with 1 teaspoon soda and 1 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar; if the milk be very sour omit 
the cream of tartar. 

To make. In a chopping bowl stir all well together 
except the shortening and milk, then chop in the 
shortening which should be cold and hard, till all is 
fine and well mixed. Now add the milk a little at a 
time, still mixing with the chopping knife. Take 
out on the moulding board and roll out with as little 
mixing as possible. 

This dough is often made richer, even 1 cup of 
butter to 1 qt. of flour being used, but so much as 
this can only be considered extravagant and un~ 
healthful. 

To use this dough. Roll 1 in. thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter and bake. To 
be eaten warm with butter. 

As Graham Bis- ^sc three parts graham flour to one 
cuits. of wheat and treat in same manner. 

Roll ^ in. thick, fit into jelly cake 

As Short Cake. .. i i i ttti -11 j 

tms and bake. When nicely browned, 
split and butter and pile up like toast. 

For fruit short cake (see pages 108 and 109.) 



pfannfudjcrt burc^ Soba anfgcgangen. |o3 

fo met fann blo§ fiir ertraoagant unb ungefunb ange= 
fel^en roerben. 

9IB Si^cuit ^Serroenbung biefeS ^eige^. JBetle etnen 

3*5^ ^^f^ o"§^ jerfd^neibe mit bem SiScuits 
fc^neiber unb bacfe. 2Q^u§ raarm mit 33utter gegeffen 
toerben. 

5IB@ra^am- 35ertt)enbe bret 3:^eile @ra^am=5me^r 

S3i^cuit. ^11 einem X^eile SBetjenmel^I unb 6es 

l^anble tn berfelBen 2Bei[e. 

m§ S3utter!ud^en. SSette | Bott btcf au§, paffe in 

(Short Cake.) ©eleefud^enbtecfie l^tnetn unb bacfe. 

SSenn Ijiibfd^ gebrdunt, fpalte if^n, Ibeftreic^e mit 33utter 
unb fd^id^te hie ^udjm auf, mie gerofteteS ^rob. 
33etreffg ^rud^t-.iButterfud^en f. ©. 108 unb 109. 
©obabrob oon SJiaiSmel^L 
mamxoh ober 1 ^affe fii^e MM), 1 Za\\c faure ober 
Soljnn^ ©Qfe. ^Suttermifc^ ober graei ^affen faure Tlii(^, 
1. (Siufarf). 1 ^^eeloffel ©al^, 1 ^^eeloffel @oba, 1 
@6lof|el Sutter ober D^ierenfett ober ©d^raeinefdjmar^, 
3 ^affen Tlai^im^l unb 1 ^affe SSei^enme^t ober gan^ 
Tlai^me^L @d)iitte in ein 55Iec^ unb bade 40 aj^inuten. 

2. SRafirfiafter. ^ ^^^^^^^^ f^ '^^'^ <5i unb ^ ^affe 
-^ '^ ' 3it^^r jugegeoen. 

q ^Pftr rt„t ^'^^ ^' "^^^ Sugabe Don 3 (gtern, i Xaffe 

*i. ^s^e^r gut. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ ^^^j^ ^utUx, 1 Xaffe 9:)^e]^r 

!ann meggelaffen roerben. 

iBrob burd) ©oba aufgegange n. — 'J) it n n. 
^fannftt<ficn oi^tte @iet;. 

1. SSon 2Bei5en= 33 e ft a n b t Ij e i I e. 1 Ot. mef)l, 
«te^I- 1 ^^eeloffel ©al^ unb ein fnappe§ Ot. 

faurer 9JliId^ mit jroei geftridfien ooEen 3:;]^eeloffeln ©oba 
unb berfelben Ouantitdt 2Beinftein, menu hie Wild) nid)t 
fel^r fauer ift, in raetc^em gatle man htn 2Beinftein megs 
iaffen fann. ©iige Wild} tann mit einem 2:;^eeloffet 
@oba unb 2 5:^eeloffe(n 2Beinftein, ober 3 ^^eeloffeln 
SBarfpuloer oermenbet roerben. 



103 Soda Raised Pancakes, 

SODA BREAD OF CORN" MEAL. 

Corn Bread, or 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup sour or but- 
johnnycake. temiilk, 01* both of sour milk, 1 tea- 
1. Plain. spoon Salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 table- 

spoon butter or suet or lard, 3 cups Indian meal, and 

1 of wheat flour, or all of Indian meal. Pour into a 
tin and bake 40 minutes. 

2 Richer "^^^ ^^uiQ with an egg and | cup sugar 

added, 
ery ice. -^^^ ^^ yffitYi the addition of 3 eggs, -J 

cup sugar and ^ cup butter, 1 cup meal being omitted. 

SODA RAISED BREAD — THIl^. 

Pancakes without Eggs, 
1. Of Wheat Ingredients. 1 qt. flour, 1 teaspoon 

Flour. 1^ 1 ^ , , -n, .,, ^ 

salt, and 1 scant qt. sour milk, with 2 
level teaspoons soda and the same of cream of tartar 
unless the milk is very sour, when omit the cream of 
tartar. Sweet milk can also be used with 1 teaspoon 
soda and 2 of cream of tartar, or 3 of baking powder. 

To make. Mix the salt and cream of tartar if used, 
with the flour. Make a hole in the middle and pour 
in the milk gradually, stirring with a spoon till smooth. 
Then beat hard for 5 minutes, or till it is bubbly. Add 
the soda dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, and bake 
immediately on a very hot griddle. 

Unless well beaten before the soda is added, these 
pancakes without eggs are not a success. 

If made with sour milk they will be still better, if 
when mixed ( without the soda, of course ) the batter 
is left to stand twelve or even twenty-four hours. 



pfannFud^cn burd? Soba aiifgcgangcn. lo't 

23 e r e i t u n g. Wiidjc (Sal^ unb SBeinftein, rocnn er 
Benii^t rairb, mit bem aJZeljt. SJ^ac^e eine 33ertie[nng in 
hie Wlittc unb giege bie 9}Zi(d^ nac^ nnb nad) l^inein, in; 
bem 3)u umrii^rft bi§ 3((leg glatt ift. (5d)lQge bann ben 
^eig fiinf SDZinuten lang tiidjtig ober fo tange, big er 
blafig rcirb. @ib 't^ie ©oba in einem ^t;eeloffel vo\i 
'i)ei^cn 2Sa[[er§ aufgeloft 3U unb bade unuer5uglid^ in 
einer fel^r f)d^cn ^adpfanne. 

2Benn ber Seig tjor ber SSetgabe ber ©oba nid^t fef)r 
ftavt gefd^Iagen roirb, gelingen i>k\e ^[anfuc^en oI;ne (gier 
nic^t. 

2?tit faurer Wd^ bereitet, raerben fie nod^ beffer, raeun 
man, fobalb ber ^eig (o^ne hie @oba natiirlic§) gemifc^t 
ift, il^n 12 ober fogar 24 ©tunben lang fte^en lix^t. iXn- 
mittelbar vox ber 25ern)enbung gib bie in etn)a§ ^ei^em 
2Ba[fer aufgelofte @oba ju. 

2. SBon ®ra:^am= SSerben in berfelben SSetfe gemad^t, 
3JJe{)I. 1 Z^eilmvL^ mei^eg ^O^e^I fein unb 2 

^^eile ®ra^am;9}^e^r. 
3. 58on Tlai§- 2Bie oben, mit mai^^ ftatt @xaf)ajn^ 

$fannfud[)en mit @iern, 

23 e ft a n b 1 1^ e i r e. 3" t^g^nb einer ber 3 oorftel^en; 
i}en 9fiegepte gib 2 — 3 (Sier, roobei ©otter unb SSei^eg be* 
fonberS 3U ^erfleppern finb. 

9)^uf [in§ unb SSaff eln- 

30^ufftn§ unb $Baffeln t)on alien 5lrten fmb ba^felBe, 
roie ^[annfud^en, nur ha^ fie etmaS bider gemac^t raerben 
unb eine Su(^ahc oon 1 (S^iiffel 23utter erl^alten. 

^rapf d^en (fritter §.) 

23etreff§ ber ^rdpfdien (fritters), roeld^e 3unad)ft an hie 
'iRci^e fommen foaten (f. ©. 113). 



104 Soda Raised Pancakes. 

Just before using add the soda dissolved in a little 
hot water. 

2. Of Graham ^1*6 made in the same way, 1 part 

Flour. being of white flour and 3 parts graham. 

3. Of Corn ^^ above, with corn meal instead of 

Meal. graham. 

Pancalces with Eggs. 
Ingredients. To any of the 3 preceding recipes add 
2 or 3 eggs, beating yolks and whites separately. 

Muffins and Waffles. 
Muffins and waffles of all kinds are the same as pan- 
cakes, made a little thicker and with the addition of 
1 tablespoon of butter. 

Fritters. 
For fritters, which should be next in order (see page 
113). 



^evtvenbuttj^j^n fixv ^vch. 



jDiefe ftnb fo ^al^Iretd^, ha^ bie ^an^altexin nte 5tngft 
vox ber Stn^dufung von althadcncm ^rob p ^aben 
Brau(J)t, roenn fie nur redjt^ettig barauf ac^tgibt. geben 
$:ag miiffen hk oon ben SJlatjtjeiten iibrig gebliebenen 
©tiicfe unb bie trod enen )R^]te Dom Soib im ^acfofen ]taxt 
geborrt unb bann in ^apierfdcfen aufge^oben roerben. 
2Benn ^ie ^cit erlaubt, [d)dle bie £ruften ah, [c^neibe fie 
in 2Biirfel unb borre fie 6efonber§ ^ur ^eigabe in 
©uppen. 

3)iefe§ geborvte S3rob Ijalt fid^ SSod^en unb donate 
lang — e§ mu§ einfac^ rein unb trocfen ge^alten roerben. 
3n jebem Df^ejept, in bem 33robfrumen oerlangt raerben, 
trie hci 33rob;^ubbing ober 33rob Omeletten, cerraenbe 
Vie\e^ gebijvrte 23rob, inbem ®u eg erft in f a I t e § 
2Ba[fer legft, hi§ eg md^ rairb, e§ bann in einem .^anbs 
tu(i) auSbriiift unb leic^t mit ber Qanh ^erh'iimelft. 

^ier folgen einige ber %xt unb SSeifen, rate ^rob uers 
raenbet raerben fann. 

^Serraenbungen oon 33robin (Bdjnitttn, 
©eroftete S3robf(f)mtten. ^n trorfenem Zoa\'i, Tlil^i 
(Xoaft). Xoa]t unb SSaffertoaft, bie alS 

fold^e genoffen unb aurf) jur ©runblage oieler anberen 
©eric^te oerraenbet raerben fonnen. 

©efd^morter Zoa}t — 33robf(i)nitten tn @i unb '^lidi) 

ober Staffer aufgeraeidjt unb mit etxva§ %ttt in einer 

33a(fpfanue gefd^mort. (©. 'Bdte 60). Salter mild)c 

ober SSaffertoaft fann fo angeraenbet raerben. 

^rapfd^en. SSetreffg ber SSrobfrdpfc^en (f. <Bdtt 114). 

33etreff§ 33rob= unh 33utterpubbing. (@. 
tubbing. ^^.^^ ^l\^ 

Sn '^ampf gebacEene^ 5irtbacfene§ 33rob fann in (^d^nit^ 

33i:ob. ten jertljeilt unb in ®amp[ ^ehaden 

loerben, urn il^m einen angenefjinen unb guten ©efc^macf 

18 '"^ 



USES FOE BREAD. 



These are so numerous that the housekeeper need 
never fear the accumulation of stale bread, if she will 
only take care of it in time. Every day the bits left 
from meals and the dry ends of the loaf 
^y I'ea . j^^^g^ -^Q dried hard in the oven and then 
put away in paper bags. If time allows, pare off the 
crusts, cut into cubes and dry separately to add to 
soups. 

This dried bread will keep for weeks or months — 
it must simply be kept clean and dry. In any recipe 
where bread-crumbs are called for, as bread pudding 
or bread omelet, use this dried bread, laying it first 
in cold water till it is soft, then pressing it dry in a 
towel and crumbling it lightly with the hand. 

Here are a few of the ways in which bread can be 
used. 

USES FOR BREAD IN" SLICES. 

Toast. In dry toast, milk toast, and water 

toast, to be eaten as such and as a foundation for 
many other dishes. 

Fried toast — bread slices soaked in egg and milk, 
or water, and fried on a griddle with a little fat. (See 
page 60). Cold milk or water toast may be so used. 
Fritters. For Bread Fritters (see page 114). 

105 



Deripcnbung Don "Bxob. \oG 

^u geben. 2cqc bie (Sc^nitten an ben D^tanb beS 3)ampf5 
rod)er§ unb laffe fie 5—10 SJ^inuten im 3:)ampf barfen, 
bann borre eg etit)a§ in einem 33a(fofen. 
Uebergeba(Jene0 33igcuitg t)on atten (gotten felbft raenn 
S3rob. fie me^rere ^age alt [inb, !onnen beinai)e 

raieber ebenfo gut, luie frifd; gemadjt raerben, rcenn man 
fie oben etroa§ befeud)tet unb fie etraa 5 3D^inuten lang in 
einen Ijeifjen 33ac!ofen fet^t. (^in bequemer 2Beg, urn fic^ 
raarme ^i^cnit^ gum grii^ftiicf gu oerfdjaffen. 

55eru)enbungen fiir Jt^rumen ober trocfes 
n e § ^ r b. 

©ingeraeid^t unb jerfriimelt, me auf (Beite 105 bes 
fd^rieben, oerroenbe e^ im Srobteig \iatt ber .gidlfte aJle^I. 

3u ^robiOmeletten (f. Bdte 60). 

3u giei[c^fli)fen fiir ©uppen unb ©aucen (f. <Bdtc 
127). 

3u 33robfiiafeL @ie§e l^inreid^enb ^eige§ Staffer auf 
trodneS 33rDb, urn e§ aufjuroeidien, unb ger^ade e§ nid)t 
gu fein; miiqe eg mit ger^adten ^raiebeln, ^rautern unb 
D^ierenfett ober auggelaffenem 'i^ett, 3)ie ^ugabe oon 
einem 6i ift eine 3Serbefferung. ^ade eg jugebedt etroa 
eine ©tunbe lang, bede bann auf unD brdune e§. ®ie 
5mi]d^ung fann au^ gum paen oon ©epgel, ^ammel^ 
fdjlegeln ufm. oermenbet merben; ober fann man e§ 
loffelmeife in einer ©adpfanne baden unb mit einer fiigen 
©auce alg bie einfac^fte ^orm oon ^fannfud)en geniegen, 

3u 33rDbpfannfu(^en (f. ®. 93). 

3u Srob^^ubbingen (f. ©. 109, 110 unb 111). 

3u Srobum^iiUung fiir gleifd^fd;nitten, gu gieifd^c 
fiid)el(^en ufu)., bie in fiebenbem gette gu fd;moren finb. 



106 Uses for Bread. 

Puddings. For bread and butter pudding (see page 

111). 

Stale bread may be cut in slices and 
steamed Bread. , , < ■ . , t -, 

steamed so as to taste sweet and good. 
Set the slices up on end in the steamer and steam 5 
or 10 minutes, then dry a little in an oven. 

Bread Biscuits of all sorts, even when sev- 

Rebaked. eral days old, may be made nearly as 

good as when fresh, by wetting the tops and setting 

in a hot oven for about five minutes. A convenient 

way of having warm biscuits for breakfast. 

USES FOR CRUMBS OR DRIED BREAD. 

Soaked and crumbled as described on page 105 and 
use in bread dough instead of half the flour. 

In bread omelettes (see page 60). 

In meat balls for soups and stews (see page 127). 

In bread dressing. Pour enough hot water on dry 
bread to soften it and chop it not too fine ; season 
with chopped onion, herbs and suet or tried out fat. 
The addition of an egg is an improvement. Bake 
covered, about an hour, then uncover and brown. 
This mixture may also be used for stuffing a fowl, leg 
of mutton, &c. ; or it may be fried in spoonfuls on a 
griddle and eaten with a sweet sauce as the simplest 
form of pancakes. 

In bread pancakes (see page 93). 

In bread puddings (see pages 109, 110 and 111). 

For breading chops, croquettes, &c., that are to be 
fried in boiling fat. 



©inia4)« fit^« ©^rid^te* 



SDiefe 5(6t^eilung er^ebt feineii 5ln|pritd) auf 55ot(ftani 
bigfeit, [te bejtuerft einfad;, [o uicle von ben bidtgeren 
©orten ju flaffificiren, nnc bte gciDoljulic^e gamilie 
braud^t. @ie raerben atlgemein al§ 9krf)ti[dj benut^t, 
aEein e§ liegt tcin @runb uov, rDarum nid)t bag Jgiaupt^ 
geric^t einer Mai)l^di etroaS 3"^^^^ ent()a[teu foUte. 3^ 
erinnere mic^, ba^ id; in einem einfad)eu ^ e n f i o n a t 
in ^(;urtngen, 3)eut[(^(anb, einft eine aJZittag^maljtjeit 
geno§, bie au§ einer ^u'pp^, einem (Salat nnb einem am 
beren @erid)te beftanb, n)eld)c§ rair einen ^robpubbing 
nennen raiirben. d^lan legte miv reidjiid; Don biefem 
§aupt;@erid)te ber Wlaf)h^eit vox, id) n^ unb rauvbe \att, 
benn hie 9}?aterialien tooren gut, e§ war gut jubereitet 
unb belifat gebacfen. 3)a§ ^ejept rairb man ©. 110 
finben. 

m i I c^'.^ u b b i n g §. 

o- .-^ a. .^. 1 ^t- SJlir^, i Xaffe 90Zai§mer;r, 1 

Snbtic^er Rubbing. <^^^^,^'^^^,i ^^^^ x ^^.^^e ge^adteS 

D^ierenfett, 1 (SB^iiffer doU Sngraer, i Za]\c 3}Zo(a[|e. 
33ade jugebedt 3 ©tunben lang in einem langfam badens 
ben Ofeu unb tifc^e mit einer fiigen ©auce au[. 
©equoUener 9^eig= 1 Ot. abgeral^mte ^Jtitc^ ober 1 

pubbing. ^{nt uotlftdnbiger unb 1 ^int SSafs 

fer, i tafl'e 9ieig,J C^^B^offel 3uder, i Xljeeroffet ©alj. 
^ade langfam 2 (^tunben lang jugebedt, bede bann auf 
unb brdune. ^§ mxh eine ra^mige Mai]e un'O x>on hclu 
fatem ©cfcbmad fein. ^ifd)e ofjue ©auce auf. 9iofinen 
fann man jngeben. 

5»Zinuten=^ubbin9 33eftanbtr;eile. 1 Ot. 9Jlir^— 

t)on SBeijen^ ober abgeraljuitc mit einem 3:f)eerofferoott 
®raf)am=5[«ef)I. 33utter reid;t Ijin — 2 (?ier, f ^int 

Tlciji, 1 Trljceliiffel ©alj. Um ba?^, ^(nbrennen ^u t)er= 
l^inbern, mad)e ifju in einem boppelten ^oc^topf ober 
einem ^Ied)topf, ber in einen £effel mit fod)enbem SBaffer 

^07 



SIMPLE SWEET DISHES. 



This department does not pretend to be complete, 
it simply aims to classify as many of the cheaper kinds 
as the ordinary family needs. These will generally be 
used as desserts but there is no reason why the main 
dish of the meal should not have some sugar in it. I 
remember that in a simple pension in Thuringia, Ger- 
many, I once ate of a dinner consisting of a soup, a 
salad and one other dish, which we would call a bread 
pudding. I was helped bountifully to this main dish 
of the meal, I ate and was satisfied, for the materials 
were good and it was well made and delicately baked. 
The recir)e will be found on page 110. 

MILK PUDDINGS. 

Indian pudding. 1 qt. of milk, | cup com meal, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, ^ cup chopped suet, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
^ cup molasses. Bake covered for 3 hours in very 
slow oven and serve with sweet sauce. 
Swelled rice 1 1^- skim milk or 1 pt. full milk and 

pudding. 1 pt. water, ^ cup rice, 2 tablespoons 

sugar, -J teaspoon salt. Bake slowly 2 hours covered, 
then uncover and brown. It will be a creamy mass 
and delicious in taste. Serve without sauce. Kaisins 
may be added. 

Minute pudding Ingredients. 1 qt. milk - skim milk 
of wheat or with 1 teaspoon butter will do — 2 eggs, 
graham flour. | ^^^ ^^^^^ ^ tcaspoon Salt. To pre- 
107 



®bft=pubbing. 1(08 

gefel^t loirb. Miid)c ha^ Wdjl unb bte ©ter glatt ju^ 
fammcn mit einem Zljcih ber 9JZild), cvroarme ben di^ft 
6i§ 5um ©ieben unb riil^re fie in hk (Sier unb ha^ ^yidjL 
diiiljic urn, hi§ e§ bid rcirb, bann laffe e§ aufquetlen 
unb fod)e langfam 15 302inuten lang. ^tfd^e mit Obft 
ober 3itdermild; auf. 

©rie^Dubbina ^eftanbtr^eile. 1 ^int 5Ba[[er, 1 ^int 

micmmxiQ. ^.^^^ ^ ^f,eeBffer ©alj, i ^int @rieg, 
2 (5ter. 50^ad^e e§ u)ie oknt. 

@r ift Borjiiglid) in ©tiide ^n\^nitten unb in ber 
33adpfanne Braun geroftet. Wan fann it)n and) o^ne 
@ier bereiten. 
oj XX v^ «> ^^' 33eftanbtlieile. 1 33int frifdbe 

©utter, 1 ^^eeUffel ^al^, eine ^riej'e @oba unb 33^elj( ^u 
einem fteifen '^eig. Saffe 2 ©tunben in ®ampf foc^en 
jober big er auffpringt, ober Bade in fleinen 2!;a[fen ober 
3;;orten|)[dnnd)en. ^ann mit irgenb einer OBftfauce ober 
mit 3urfermild; genoffen roerben. 

O B ft ; ^^ u b b i n g e mit © o b a = 33 t § c u 1 1. 

@rbBeeren^33utter:= 33etref|§ be§ ^eige§ f. (£. 102. 

!ud)en. ^cnn er aU 33utterfud)en geBaden 

mirb, fpalte bie ^ndjen unb ftreidje ^mifc^en jebeS ^aar 
^erbriidte, fii§gemad)te ©rbBeeren. 
Slnbere Dbft=33utter= 9(uf biefelBe SSeife mac^e 33ntter5 
!uc^en. fuc^en an§ ©eeren irgenb melc^er 

©orte, gebdmpften Slepfetn, gebdmpftem 9^(;aBarBer, 4i5 
troneu; ober Orangenj^^ortefiillung, furj aug irgenb einer 
^aftetenfiittung, bie o(;ne meitereg Jlod;en jum @enuf|"e 
Bereit ift. ©ie fodten rcarm gegeffen merben, aBer nid;t 
^ei^, unb finb and) am ndd;ften 2:nge eBenfo gut, menu 
man fie lang genug in hen S^adofen fel^t, hamit fie mies 
bei marm unb fnufprig merben. 

9ftoI^'-^ol^=^ubbing "A^ic^c BelieBten ©erid^te finb 

unb Welpla^. Bro§9[)^obificationcn beg £)Bft=33ut= 

tevfud)eng. 3^"'^'^)f't ^^^'^ ^"^^ ^'^^S gcrabe fteif gcnug ges 



108 Fruit Puddings. 

vent burning make in double boiler or pail set in 
a kettle of boiling water. Mix the flour and egg 
smooth with part of the milk, heat the remainder to 
boiling and stir in the egg and flour. Stir till it 
thickens, then let it swell and cook slowly for 15 min- 
utes. Serve with fruit, or with sugar and milk. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. water, 1 pt. milk. 

Farina pudding. i - i j. j? • n 

1 teaspoon salt, -J pt. farma, 2 eggs. 
Make as above. 

This is excellent cut in slices when cold and fried 
brown on a griddle. It may also be made without 
eggs. 

Inqredients. 1 pt. fresh buttermilk. 

Buttermilk « ^ i i i. . . -, x 

pudding. ^ tablespoons cream or butter, 1 tea- 

spoon salt, a pinch of soda, and flour for 
stiff batter. Steam 2 hours, or till it bursts open, 
or bake in little cups or patties. May be eaten with 
any fruit sauce or with milk and sugar. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS WITH SODA BISCUIT DOUGH. 

For this dough, see page 102. 
When baked as short cake, split the 

Shortcakes. _ _ -, -, , \ 

cakes and spread between each pair 

strawberries mashed and sweetened. 

other fruit short- I^ the same Way make shortcake of 

cakes. berries of any sort, stewed apples, stewed 

pieplant, lemon or orange tart filling, in short, any 

filling for a pie, that is ready to eat without further 

cooking. These should be eaten warm but not hot, 

and are as good next day, if put in the oven long 

enough to become again warm and crisp. 

Roi Pol pud- These favorite dishes are but modifi- 

ding and apple cations of the fruit shortcake. In the 

dumpling. ^j.g^ |.j^g dough is made just stiff enough 



(Dbft=pubbingc. ^0^ 

mad)t, urn an^emem, mit 3lepfe(n, ^eercn ober anbcrcit 
griic^tcii bcbecft, aufgcroKt unb in cine etraag 3Ba[|er ents 
I;artcnbe ^^fanne ^um 33arfcn gcfel^t ruerbcn ju fonnen. 

S3eim ^tpfelplat^ irirb bie jlvufte in Ouabrate au^gc^ 
fc^nittcn, bann racrben ^icrfd^nittene 5rep[e( in bie mitte 
gefe^t unb Ijierauf bie erfen aufgeftiilpt unb aufammens 
gebriicft. 33acfe raie ^oltj^^olp^^ubbing ober fodie in 
®ampf. 

5lpfelpaftete. ^ ^^'"". ^" ^^i" ^^f^ S^S^eic^ mit 

bcr ^rujte fod)en rviUfi, fo fiiae einen 
tiefen ^aftetenteller mit ^bfi, mie Hepfet, unb 6ebecfe fie 
mit bem auSgemellten ^Butterfnc^enteig. 53a(fe braun, 
unb uicnn fertig, l^ebe hie ^vufte ab, Derfiifee ha^ Obft, 
fe^e bie £rufte micbcr barauf, unb bcr„^ie" i]t^um^in\i 
tifc^cn fcvtig. 

5(ufgegnngener 33igcuit= ober 33nn;^c{g ([. ©. 98) 
fann nuf biefetbe SSctfe benu^t'raevbcn, ober nod) beffer 
hie 9Jli|rf;ung fiir .gefcpfannfud^en (|. (S. 99) in :eagen 
mit irgenb einer Obftforte. 

SSiUft ®u bicfe „Obft.33utterfud^en „^ic§"nennen unb 
^ic^ bamit ^ufrieben geben, fo fannft ®u-®ir oiele 9JZitf;e, 
me( foftfpieligeS SO^aterial erfparen unb 5^einer gamilie 
tin nod^ gefunbereg @erid)t oorfe^en. giir ^^ic§ merben 
feine meiteren 9ie3epte mc^r gegeben; einige raenige, bie 
otlgemein unter biefelben fCoffificirt merben fonnen, gel^o; 
ren naturgemag el;er unter ha^ ^apitcl bcr ^ubbinge. 

Obft=$ubbtnge mit ^rob. 

1. Srauner $8ett^=^. ^ ^l ^* ^ « V \' - ^ !i. . } . ^'J^^ 
^ ^ S3robtrume ober befeud^tete^, trorfe^ 

tteS 33rob, 1 Ot. jerfjadte ©auerdpfel, ^ ^t. ^ndcx, 2 

^I;eeli)ffet ^imnut, 4 (Jfltoffet 33utter ober 9^ierenfett. 

5lrrangire 5Iepfet unb 33rob in 2ac^en, inbcm ^u mit ber 

33robfrnme beginnft unb auffjorft, xviiv^e jebe ^Oage mit 

^urfer unh ©ewiixien unh beftreic^e hie obere :2age mit 

53uttcr. ^.ccfe gu, hi^ bie 5(epfe( meid) finb, nimm bcu 

^edel bann ab, bamit eg braun tpirb. 

19 



109 Fruit Puddings. 

to roll out, covered with apples or berries or other 
fruit, then rolled up and ^\\i to bake in a pan contain- 
ing a little water. 

For apple dumplings, the crust is cut in squares, 
sliced apples placed in the middle, then the corners 
gathered up and pinched together. Bake like Roly 
Poly pudding, or steam. 

If you wish to cook your fruit at the 
ppepie. same time with the crust, fill a deep 

pie plate with fruit, as apples, and cover with the 
rolled out shortcake. Bake brown, and when done 
lift the crust, sweeten the fruit, replace the crust, and 
the ^'pie" is ready to serve. 

Raised biscuit or bun dough (see page 98), can be 
used in the same way, or still better, yeast pancake mix- 
ture (see page 99), in layers with any sort of fruit. 

If you will call these fruit shortcakes *^pies," and 
be content therewith, you will save much labor, much 
expensive material, and set before your family a more 
healthful dish. No farther recipes for pies will be 
given; a few that are generally classed as such, com- 
ing more naturally under the head of puddings. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS WITH BREAD. 

1. Brown Betty. Ingredients. 1 pt. bread crumbs, or 
dry bread moistened, 1 qt. chopped sour apples, \ pt. 
sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 4 tablespoons butter or 
suet. 

Arrange bread and apples in layers in a pudding 
dish, beginning and ending with the bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with the sugar and spice and 
spreading the butter over the top. Cover it till the 
apples are soft, then uncover to brown. 



Hal)m=pubbtngc. \ jo 

-* ^ 35rom6eeren. 2Benu |ie nic^t jattig 

genug finb, mu^ etraag ^Baffev jugegeben raevben. (S:in 

^-13ubbing fann auf hu\dh^ 2Bei[c mit itirfc^en oerfertigt 

raerben, ober mit irgenb einer raor)l]ci^mecfenben grud^t. 

9^ a I; m ; ^ u b b t n g. 

. r.. r . 33 e ft a n b t Ij e i r e. 1 Ot. TOIc^, 4 

1. unract). ^g.^^.^ ^^^g (53^j^^ ^^^^^ ^^.^^ befonbevg ^ac 

tUppcxi, 4 ©^loffel ^ndcx, gerieBenc 9Jiu§fatnuH unb 
eine ^riefe ©alj. 33acfe in einem mit gutter beftric^e^ 
nen ^^ubbtnggefdg, bi§ e§ feft ift, unb nimm au§ bem 
Ofen, e()e eg gerinnt. 

2. 9flei§= unb B" ^^" obigen ^ngrebiengien gib 4- ^affe 
9tat)m=^J[5. 9^ei§, ber in einem ^^eile ber ^S^ild) loeic^ 

gefod)t ift, ober and) in 3Baffer. ^acfe I — f ©tunben, 
big eg fid) I;iib|d) brdunt. 

®ag ift bie ©runbtage fiir hie vieUn cerfd^iebenen 
D^ieigpubbinge. 2(u(^ 9tofinen !ann man gugeben. 

3. %apioca, ^ubbinge aug tapioca unb ©ago merben 

auf biefetbe 3Sei[e bereitet, blog ha^ biefe 
. ^ago. 2 (gtunben lang in einem 3;;^eile ber Wiidi) 
ober in Staffer aufgeraeidjt merben miiffen. 
SSelf^fornmef)^ 3" ^^^ ^ngrebien^ien beg einfac^en 
unb 9ftaf)m^^. D^ca^mpubbingg gib 1 ^int SJ^aigmefjl 
unb eine (Srtrataffe dJliid), einen ^fjeeloffet ©afj, eincn 
^^eeli)ftet ^ngmer, i Za\\c ^ndcx unb | ^a[|e ^erljadteg 
Df^inbgnierenfett ober 2 (Sf^offel auggetaffeneg ^ett. 
33rii!^e bog Wc'i)l erft in ber SJlild^ ah unb hade hen ^ubs 
bing gugebedt jroei ©tunben in einem kngfam hadenhen 
Ofen. 

©rob; unb 9t a If; m = ^ u b b i n g e. 

1. S3rob-^ubbing 1 ^t- fod)enber ^iid) xvixh auf 

ober ©emmeU eine gIeic^gro§e SDkffe 33rob gegoffen, 
©eraufc^. — [ooiel miefie auffaugt, etma 1--Pt., 

menu eg I; art ift — 4 (Sier, ^ X^eclbHel %al^, i ^affe 

3u(fer. 



110 Custard Puddings. 

The same, made with raspberries or 

3. Berry Betty. . i n ^ • t-c i. • • i 

blackberries. If not juicy enough, a 
little water must be added. A pudding may be made 
in the same way with cherries or any other well fla- 
vored fruit. 

CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

1. Plain. Ingredients. 1 qt. milk, 4 eggs, beaten 

yolks and whites separately, 4 tablespoons sugar, a 
grating of nutmeg and a jiinch of salt. Bake in a 
buttered pudding dish till solid, and take from the 
oven before it curdles. 

3. Rice and cus- To above ingredients add \ cup of 

tard, rice cooked soft in part of the milk, or in 

water. Bake -J to f of an hour, till nicely browned. 

This is the foundation for the many varieties of rice 

puddings. Raisins may be added. 

g . Tapioca and Sago puddings are made 

in the same way, except that they must 

■ ^^^' be soaked for 2 hours in part of the 

milk or in water. 
Indian and cus- To the ingredients for plain custard 

tard pudding, pudding add 1 pt. of corn meal and an 
extra cup of milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon gin- 
ger, \ cup sugar and -J cup chopped beef suet or 2 
tablespoonf uls tried out fat. Scald the meal first in 
the milk and bake the pudding, covered, two hours 
in slow oven. 

BREAD AND CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

1. Bread pudding 1 qt. boiling milk poured on as much 
or " Semmei bread — as will absorb it, about 1 pt. if 
^^ ^ * hard ^4 eggs, \ teaspoon salt, \ cup 
sugar. 



^rob= unb ^a^m^pubbingc. { \ { 

TOrc^ unb 33rob la^t man tali toerben, unb bte anDcc 
ten iBeftanbt^ette raerben tiic^tig mit tl^r t)erru^rt, raobei 
man hk (gier befonberg gerfleppert unb ^a^ SSBeifee ^u^ 
ret^t gugibt. 33acfe in einem mit 33utter Beftrtc^enen ©e^ 
fdge eine ©tunbe lang. 3§ o^ne ©ance. 

^^atiirlic^ fann man ©rob^^ubbtng aud^ mit meniger 
©iern bereiten, attein bann reic^t er aU ^auptgeric^t 
eincr SJ^a^l^eit ntc^t au§. 

2.S3rcb=^ubbing ^rocfene§ 33rob roirb in fartem 

(emfac^). ^a\\^x aufgeroetc^t unb in einem 

Xuc^e trodfen gtbriicft; 9D2tt(^ mirb cerroenbet, urn e§ 
in einen tvcidjm ©rei ^u Derraanbeln. @i6 cin aerflep^ 
perteg ©i gu l $t ber ^mtfi^ung ^u. ^ade eine ^atbe 
big eine ©tunbe unb ig mit einer fiigen ©auce. 

mitmo\mtn. J«''ftnen 3ojann{§beeren ober frifc^eS 

Objt, mie ilir|c^en, !ann man ^ugeben. 
mit geberrten dlad)hem S)u bie ^alfte ber ^ubbtng^ 

^Wln. mi]d)nn^ eingelegt ^aft, lege eine blrfe 

©d^id^te gebdmpfter geborter 2tepfe(, nac^bem fie^erbriirft 
unb [ug gemac^t nnb mit Orangenfiiare unh ^immet ges 
miir^t finb, bariiber. 

S3rob= unb S3utter= ^inc bequeme ^Tbrnec^glung im qe< 

Rubbing. mo^ntic^en 33rob=^ubbing. 

©infacb ^^ft^eic^e bunne S3rob[c^itten mit 33utter unb 

begiege jte mit einer einfac^en ^a^mmifd^ung 
(custard), namlic^ mit 4 @iern auf 1 Qt. ^J^ilc^, 4 @§5 
lo\\eln 3u(fer, einer 5|3rie[e ©alj. ^alte biefelbe nieber^ 
gebriicft hi^ hie 9f^a^mmifrf)ung aufgefogen ift, 33a(fe 
langfom hi§ er feft unb braun mirb. 3§ mit ober o^ne 
©auce. 

5mit DW ^^^ 33robic^nitten fann man mit ^orint^en 

' * ober mit irgenb einer ©orte gefoc^ter frifc^er 

ober geborrtet griic^te belegen, hie nidgt [o [aftig finb. 

93rDbpubbing fitr ©c^neibe fleine, runbe 33roblaib= 

jebe einaelne d)en in 35iertel, ober beniit^e S3igcuit§. 

^erfon. aBeid)e in einer $mi|(i)ung uon 4 



m^ 



111 Bread and Custard Puddings. 

The milk and bread are allowed to get cold and the 
other ingredients well beaten with it, the eggs being 
beaten separately, and the whites added last. Bake 
one hour in a buttered dish. Eat without a sauce. 

Of course a bread pudding can be made with fewer 
eggs, but then it will hardly do for the main dish of 
a meal. 

2. Bread pudding Dried bread soaked soft in cold water 
( simple), and pressed dry in a cloth, milk to make 
it into a soft mush. Add 1 beaten Qgg to a pint of 
the mixture. Bake from half an hour to an hour 
and eat with sweet sauce. 

With raisins. Raisins or currants or fresh fruit, as 

cherries, may be added. 
With dried After putting in ^ the pudding mix- 

appies. ture, put a thick layer of stewed dried 

apples mashed and sweetened, and flavored with 
orange peel or cinnamon. 
Bread and butter ^ Convenient Variation on the ordi- 

pudding. nary bread pudding. 
Plain. Spread thin slices of bread with but- 

ter, and pour over them a simple custard, viz. : 4 eggs 
to 1 qt. of milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt. 
Keep pressed down till the custard is absorbed; Bake 
slowly till firm and brown. Eat with or without 
sauce. 

The bread slices may be spread with 

With fruit. , ... , .{, 1 • -, <. 

India currants, or with any kind oi 

fresh or dried cooked fruit, not too juicy. 

Individual bread Cut small round loaves of bread into 

puddings. quarters, or use biscuits. Soak in a 

mixture of 4 eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separate- 



tticrenfett=piibbinge. \X2 

©tern, bi^j SSei^e unb (55c[6e bcfonbcvS gerffeppevt, unb 
3U einem ^t. 9J^i(c^ mit etraaS 23u(fer unb SDZuSfatnu^ ges 
gebcn, ein. SSenn fie 3llleg aufgcfogen Ijahen, merben fie, 
ol^ne 3U jerbreiiien, trocfTien unb fid) in einem langfam 
bacfenben Ofen l^iibfc^ 16raun hadcn, inbem man tcenigs 
ften§ eins ober jroeimal mit 33utter beftreidjt. SDa§ ©es 
ric^t fanit feljr l^iibfd) bereitet merben, menn man in bie 
Si)d)er um Vie obere (Seite D^^ofinen (egt uub @tiidegefd)dl5 
ter 3}lanbeln l^ineinftedt. 

Df^terenfett'^ubbinge. 

S e ft a tt b t ]§ e 1 1 e. -J- $t. D^ierenfett fetn ^ex^adt, 
i ^t. ^Jiotaffe, i^t. 30^itd), -J ^t. 9tofincn ober ^orin^ 
tl^en, ober beibe§. {(^-in 3:t)ei( beg Obfteg !onnen ^ers 
fd^nittene geigen unb ^n^etfd^en fein). 1 ^^eeli)ffet ©atj, 
1 3:i^ee(6ffet ©oba ^u ber SJ^otaffe gemi[c^t, 1 ^t. SSrobs 
frume (troden) 1 ^st. @raI;am;9JZep unb 2 @ier. ^'odje 
3 ©tunben in ®ampf ober bade 2 ©tunben. 

36 init einer (^itronenfauce. 

33enut^e bag obige 9^e,5ept b(o§ mit 5Iu§5 
^wffld). laffung ber (5ier unb mit SScnii^ug con If 
$t. mei^em 9:ilef)l ftott ®rat}am;9JleIjI ober iBrobfrume. 
Rubbing tnieber 5lIIe Dorftel^enben $ubbinge finb 

auf^uwiirmen. an(i) mieber aufgeraarmt gnt. 3^^' 

fc^neibe fie in ©tiide unb mdrme im 23adofen auf ober 
fc^more fie in etiva^ Sutter in einer ^^fanne. ©iebe 
3uder bariiber unb i§ mit (Sauce. 

Rubbing ©aucc. 

1 ^t. SBaffer mit einem gef)autten (Sgliiffet voK SCtel^l 
in einem glatten ©tdrfetcig ocrriitjrt. £oc^e 10 93^inu5 
ten long, fei()e burdj, menu e§ nottjraenbig i]'t, ocrfii^e 
na<i) @efd)mad unb giefee e§ auf einen feftli3ffc( uoll 
93utter unb ben ©aft einer (^itrone ober anbereg ©eroiir^. 
aSenn feine gitrone benu^t mirb, gib einen ©^loffel ooll 
effig 3U. 

^ieg fann uoi^ na^r^after gemad)t merbcn, menu man 



112 Suet Puddings, 

ly, and added to 1 pt. of milk with a little sugar 
and nutmeg. When they have absorbed all they 
will without breaking, drain and bake in slow oven 
to a nice brown, spreading a little butter over once 
or twice at the last. This dish can be made very 
pretty by putting currants in the holes around the 
top and sticking in pieces of blanched almonds. 

SUET PUDDINGS. 

Ingredients. J pt. beef suet, chopped fine, -J pt. 
molasses, ^ pt. milk, -J pt. raisins or currants, or both. 
(A part of the fruit may be figs and prunes cut in 
bits.) 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda mixed with 
the molasses, 1 pt. bread crumbs (dry), 1 pt. graham 
flour and 2 eggs. Steam 3 hours or bake 2. 
Eat with a lemon sauce. 

Use the above recipe, omitting the 
eggs and using instead of graham flour 
and bread crumbs If pt. white flour. 
To reheat pud- All the preceding puddings are good 
dings. reheated. Cut in slices, and warm in 

the oven, or fry in a little butter in a pan. Sift sugar 
over and eat with sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 pt. water made into a smooth starch with a heap- 
ing tablespoon flour. Cook 10 minutes, strain if nec- 
essary, sweeten to taste and pour it on 1 tablespoon 
butter and juice of a lemon or other flavoring. If 
lemon is not used add 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

This can be made richer by using more butter and 
sugar; stir them to a cream with the flavoring, then 
add the starch. 



Krapfd^crt. U3 

mel;r 33uttcr unb ^udex oerroenbet; »crrul;re e§ gu einem 
dia^m mit ben ©eroiirjen unb gib baun ben ©tarfmelEiIs 
tetg 3U. 

^r a p f d^ e n. 

^iefe IBefte'^en an§ cerfc^iebenen hidtn ober biinnen 
jtei(3en, hk in fiebenbem gett gefc^mort [inb, unb raerben 
warm mit ^udn ober einer fii§en ©auce gegeffen. ®ag 
l^ei^^e %ctt mad)t fie aufqueHen unb Uid)t unb gibt tl;nen 
eine betifate, tnufprige il'rufte. 

@en)of)n(id) rairb ©c^roeinefc^malj geBrauc^t, a6er fies 
benbegOe((]. @eite 41) ift beffer unb felbft 9^inb§[ett, 
^ubercitet rcie nac^ berfelben @eite, ift gut. ®ao gett 
mu§ bampfenb ^eig fein, bamit eg nidjt in hen ^eig (;ins 
einfc^tiipfen fann. Slug bemfelben ©runbe miiffen fo ges 
foc^te biinne 2:eige mel^r (5i entl;alten, al§ roenn fie ges 
haden roerben foltten. 

cy ®ie ^rdp[d)en fann man auSroIIen unb in 

i^ormen. g^^.^^^^^ fd;neiben, ober man fdjopft fie loffeb 
meife au^ ober IdfU fie burd) hen ^ric^ter laufen, mobei 
fie natiirnd)er 2Bei[e ;^u cerfdjiebener Sbic^tigfeit fiir jebe 
biefer 5D^et{)oben gemifdjt \Qin miiffen. 3Benn fie l^iibfc^ 
gebrdunt finb, nimm fie mit einem ^raI;t(offe[ l)evau§ 
unb lege fie auf ^adpapier, meld)c§ bo§ gett auffaugt, 
beftreue fie bann mit ^ucfer unb tifc^e ]ic auf. 

SOlit 6oba aufgegan^ ^ngrebienjien. 1 ^t. Wc^l (hit 
gene ^^rdpf(|en. ,g)dl[fte fann @raI)am;3DZe{j( fein), ^ 
^^ccloffel ©al^, 1 ^^eelciffel Oe(, ^^utter ober ©djmalj, 
1 ©i unb ^ ^t. ©auermitd; mit ^ ^(jceloffel ©oba, ober 
ba^felbe Ouantum filler ^ild) mit -^ ^t}eelt)ffet (Soba 
unb einem ^f)eeIoffe( 2Beinftein. ^cvtUpTpcxe ba§ (^i, 
ha§ SSei^e unb @e(be befonber§, unb gib ju aCferle^t 
ha^ SSeif^e jn. 

©d)Dpfe mit einem Soffel in fiebenbc§ ©d^maf^ au§, 
ober laffe etioa bie .Jpdlfte oon bem 30^elj[e me^ unh ta§ 
burd) einen ^rid^tcr laufen. 

jDicfcn ^eig !ann man and; mit J^cfe aufgeljen madden. 



113 Fritters, 

FEITTERS. 

These are various doughs and batters fried in boil- 
ing fat, and eaten warm with sugar or a sweet sauce. 
The hot fat gives a puffy lightness and a delicious 
crisp crust. 

Lard is most generally used, but cooking oil (see 
page 41) is better, and even beef fat prepared as (see 
same page) is good. The fat must be smoking hot to 
prevent its soaking into the dough. For the same 
reason batters so cooked must contain more egg than 
if they were to be baked. 

The fritter may be rolled out and cut 

Forms. . , t -> . p -, 

m shapes, or dropped m spoonfuls or 
run through a funnel, being, of course, mixed of dif- 
ferent consistency for each method. When nicely 
browned, take out with a wire spoon and lay on brown 
paper, which will absorb the fat, then sprinkle with 
sugar and send to table. 
Soda raised Ingredients. 1 pt. flour (^ may be 

fritters. graham), ^ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon oil, 

butter, or lard, 1 egg and | pt. sour milk with | tea- 
spoon soda, or same of sweet milk with | teaspoon soda 
and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Beat the egg, white 
and yolk separately, adding the white last of all. 

Drop from a spoon into boiling lard; or, omit nearly 
half the flour and pour through a funnel. 

This batter may be also raised with yeast. 
Egg raised These are more crisp and delicate. 

fritters. If liked vcry light, soda or cream of 

tartar or baking powder may be added to these also. 
These batters are thinner than the preceding; they 
must be well beaten if no soda is used. 
10 



l{rapfd?cn. \ ^4 

^ra^fc^3n mit (£i ®iefe finb fnufprtger unb belifatcr. 
aufgegangen. ^rgeun man fie \d)v Uid)t gent tfet, fann 
man and^ ©oba ober SSeinftein obev ^adpnlvev 3uge6en. 
®ie)e Xetge ftnb bilnner aU hie uorfte^enben; fie miiffen 
aud^ tuc^tig gefc^Iagen merben, raenn feine @oba gebraudbt 
mirb. 

1. S3eftanbt^e{Ie. 1 fnappeg $t. me^l, 2 @ter 1 
^^eeloffet ©alj, ^ ^t mild), 1 X^eeloffer Oel ober 
^ntter. 

Serfteppere bie ©otter gut, [c^Iage fie bann rateber 
tiic^tig mit DJieljl unb Mild) ^ufammen, gib ba§ 3U }tei\em 
(Bd)aum gefc^lagene SSeifee ^ule^t ju. ©c^more loffel. 
oollmeife. 

2. 33eftanbt^etre. 1 ge^dufte§ p. ^^e^, 4 (gter, 1 
(5§tof[er Oel ober ^Butter, 1 X^eerbffet ©al^, etwa 1 p. 
2Ba[fer ober genug, urn ben ^eig etraaS bicfer 3U mac^en, 
al^ fiir ^fannfuc^en. 5Serfal;re mie t)orf;er. 
3utfiaten. . ^ ^B^^ff^'^ ^^IT ©itronenfaft fann ju irgenb 

einem ber obtgen D^e^epte ^ngegeben roerben, 
ober etxva^ dJlmtaUm^ ober3immet, raenn man hie^ qern 

Db[tfrapfd)en. ,. ^i^"^ f«"7 fj^J^ f^^^^f^^^ ff "^^^^ 
bte Jlerntapfeln l)nh]d) aug unb gerfc^neibe 

fie in runbe @d;ei6en oon i ^oli 2)i(fe. SSeic^e biefe 

einige ©tunben in fii§ gemad)tem ^ein, ^itronenfaft ober 

einer anberen ©efd^macf^ugabe ein. Xauc^e fie in einen 

ber obigen ^eige unb f(|more fie. (©ie finb auc^ o^ne 

(£inn)eid)ung in etne ©efd^macf^ugabe fel^r gut). 

^firfid)e, 2(nana§ unb 33ananen fonnen in berfetben 

2Sei[e benu^t merben. 

58robfrapfd)en. . ^ff'^' f .^rufte .onJBrobfc^nitten 
'^' ^ lo§, fdjuetbe fte m fjubfc^e ^ormen gured^t 
unb raffe fie, aber nic^t fo, bag fie augeinanber gel;en, in 
einer STaffe Wild) aufmeic^en, 3U ber 1 jerfdjlageneg (St 
unb ctn)a§ ©eroitr^, mie S^mmd, ©itrone ufra., augege^ 
ben morben tft. Xauc^e fie in ben j^rapfd)enteig nnh 
fd^more fie. 



114 Fritters. 

1. Ingredients. 1 scant pt. of flour, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, \ pt. milk, 1 teaspoon oil or butter. 

Beat the yolks well, then again well with the flour 
and milk, add the stiffly beaten whites last. Fry in 
spoonfuls. 

2. Ingredients. 1 heaping pt. flour, 4 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon oil or butter, 1 teaspoon salt, about a pint 
of water, or enough to make the batter a little thicker 
than for pancakes. Proceed as before. 

1 tablespoon of lemon iuice may be 
Additions. j^jj. ijxi x. • 

added to any of the above recipes, or a 
little nutmeg or cinnamon if liked. 

Take sour apples, peel, cut out the 

Fruit fritters. ^, ^ .. ^ , . ,. 

core neatly and slice round m slices t 
in. thick. Soak these a few hours in sweetened wine, 
lemon juice or other flavoring. Dip in either of the 
above batters and fry. (They are also very good with- 
out being soaked in the flavoring.) 

Peaches, pine apples and bananas may be used in 
the same way. 

Trim the crust from sliced bread, cut 

in nice shapes and soak soft, but not 
till they break, in a cup of milk to which has been 
added 1 beaten egg and some flavoring, as cinnamon, 
lemon, etc. Dip in fritter batter and fry. 



^o4j^n t»i?n CfBjewtuT^n^ 



S)ie Jpillfen* 3Bte rcir BereitS gefel^en l^aben, ift ber 
friic^te. 3^d^rn)ert^ gebbrrter ^o^nen, (Srbfen unb 
Sinfen grog, bet ber gen)o|nItci^en ^od^tDeife aber ge^tunS 
ein grower ^rojentfa^ bauon oerloren. 

3rt bem ^od^projeg inu§ ber 3ettftoffbeftanbtl^e{( aufs 
gefprengt, aufgeraetdjt unb fo t)oUftdnbig, nne mogHd^, 
entfernt roerben. ^iej'e 33egetabil{en miiffen, trenn man 
fie nic^t gefc^roten befommen !ann, einige ^dt fang vox 
bem ^od^en in faltem SSaffer eingeroeic^t, bann gefoc^t 
raerben, bi§ fie v)d(^ finb, raorauf man fie gerquetf^t unb 
burc^ dn (Bkh treibt. ileine gorm be§ ^oc^enS, bic nid§t 
bag ^urd)treiben einfd^liegt, fann fiir anbere al§ fe^r 
abgel^drtete SJldgen empfo^len raerben* ©ie^e ©. 65 
unb 117. 

„ „ %udc) biefeg SSegetabit mug mit ©orgfalft 

startottei. ^g^anbelt merben. SDie ©tdrfme^rforn^en, 
an§ melc^en e§ in fo grogem 9Jlaffe beftel^t, fcfjmellen 
beim ^oc^pro^eg auf unb 3erberften \)ie ^e^w'^nbe, meld^e 
fte einfc^liegen, menn aber biefeS ©labium erreid^t ift, 
rairb hie ^artoffel l^dupg oerborben, inbem man fie nod^ 
®ampf in fidf) aufnel^men unb ^erfod^en Idgt. ©obalb 
fie xvtid) finb, fodten gefottene ^artoffeln abgegoffen, ein 
paar SJlinuten abgetrodnet, bann mit ©alj beftreut unb 
ber £effel mit einem .ganbtud^ bebedt merben, U^ man fie 
anric^tet. ^an lege fie bann in eine ©erutette unb 
bringe fie auf ben ^ifd§. 

3lnbere SSege:= 5lnbere ®artengen)dd[)fe merben mel^r 

tabilien. ober meniger ebenfo gefod^t: man fe^t fie 

infod^enbeg^Baffer unb l^dlt fie hei rafd^em^od^en, big fie 

raeic^ finb, aber nid)t Idnger, —hie ^dthaucx ift babei bet 

U5 



COOKIl^G OF YEGETABLES. 



The Legumes. As we have Seen, the food value of 

the dried bean, pea and lentil, is great, 
but as usually cooked a large per cent, of it is lost 
to us. 

In the process of cooking, the cellulose part must 
be broken up, softened, and as much as possible 
entirely removed. These vegetables, if they cannot 
be obtained ground, must be soaked in cold water 
some time before cooking, cooked till very soft and 
then mashed and sieved. No form of cooking that 
does not include sieving can be recommended except 
for very hardy stomachs. See pages 55 and 117. 

This vegetable must also be treated 

Potato . 

with care. The starch grains of which 

it is so largely composed swell in the process of cook- 
ing, and burst the cellulose walls confining them, but 
when this stage is reached the potato is too often 
spoiled by being allowed to absorb steam and become 
sodden. As soon as tender, boiled potatoes should 
be drained, dried out a few moments, then sprinkled 
with salt, and the kettle covered close with a towel^ 
until they are served. They should then be put into 
a napkin and sent to the table. 

Other garden vegetables are cooked 

other vegetables. , ,., i • j. i ^^^ 

more or less alike; put into boiling 
water and kept at a rapid boil until tender, and no 
115 



"Kodfen von (Scmiifcn. H6 

jcbcm befttmmten ©erutid)^ je nad) [einer grifc^c, ©ro^c 
nnh [ciuem 3tei[egrab oerfdjieben. ilBeuii [ie gav ober bei; 
na(;e gar finb, joUte man [ie tDuv^en unb [o balbroie moqs 
lid; anridjten. 

®emifcj)te Sege. ©ine raiafommene ^IbraecftSluna in 

tabilieu. ^em ^u[ti[c§en dou ©emufen tann in 

bcr 33evmengung con pvci obcr mef;r ©ortcn ges 
[unben rcerben. C^inige biefer aj^ifc^ungcn [inb gru= 
ner Wai^ unh auggcfjiilfte ©o^nen ober „©uccotQ[ri" 
griiner Wlai^ unb ^arabiegapfel, griiner ajiaig mil 
©auce-.^artofteln, jlartoffeln unb roeige ^iikn mc 
fammen 3erftamp[t, griine (Srbfen mit einem 55ier5 
tel i§reg Ouantum^ fefjr ftein gerfdinittener getber 
9^ii6en, ^nrtoffefn mit berfelBen proportion c^eU 
hex dliiben, hie ntit bariiber gegoffenen, gefdjmorten, t'Uin 
5erfd;nittenen ^wichdn c^cmiiv^t finb. 
SegetQbilien anb (?g gibt au(^ ^mijdiungen Don 55e. 

6-i-ucI)te. Qctahilien unb g-riic^ten, "ok, raie 

^infen ober 33o()nen, ring^um mit gebdmpften Sroetfdben 
umlegt, fe^r quU DffcefuUate ergeben. 



116 Cooking of Vegetables. 

longer, — the length of time varying for any given 
vegetable according to the freshness, size, and degree 
of maturity. When done or nearly so, they should 
be seasoned and served as soon as possible. 

A welcome variety in the serving of 

Mixed vegetables. ,,, uj? j - i-n-ci 

vegetables can be lound m skiJiiul 
mixture of two or more kinds. A few of these mix- 
tures are, green corn and shelled beans, or succotash, 
green corn and tomatoes, green corn with stewed 
potatoes, potatoes and turnips mashed together, green 
peas with a quarter as many carrots cut very small, 
potatoes with same proportion of carrots and seasoned 
with fried sliced onions poured over. 
Vegetables and There are also mixtures of vegetables 
fruits. and fruits that are very successful, as 

lentils or beans with a border of stewed prunes. 



^nppien chn& gUi^dj< 



cv Qi-YY • ®te[e ©uppert fodten cort ber ofo^ 

^m ^ugemcinen. „j,^|^^^,„ ^auSfrau in grogem S^aBe 

oerraenbet it)erben;fie finb billtg unb nal^r^ft, unb toenn 
fie forgfdittg bereitet unb geraiir^t luerben, Bon rorjiigU; 
d^em @e[d)ma(f. (S^ gibt eine groge 3In3arj( con S^ejep^ 
ten, unter roelc^en man au§|ud^en fann, wag ©inem nad^ 
ben 3ur .l^anb befinbltc^en Wlatexialkn, ber gur ^^erfilgs 
ung fte(;enben ^dt unb ber geuerungSquantttcit pa^t. 

J)iefe raerben unter 35egeta6inen;©uppen, Tlc'ijU unb 
35robfuppen unb falU ©uppen rubricirt. 

35egetal6tnen = (Suppen. 

SSenn man ^noc^en com Sletfd^ ober gletfcfiabfaire ^ur 
,I^anb l^at, bte nid)t anbermettig gebrau(^t merben, fo 
laffe man [ie 1 — 2 ©tunben lang letc^t tm 2Ba[fer fodten 
unb benii^e hie fo er^Uene 33rul^e \tatt Staffer ^ur iBe? 
reitung ber folgenben (Suppen. 

^m mtd^tigften finb Vie au§ geborrten SSol^nen, @rb[en 
unb :Si?in[en, hen brei ©c^otenfriic^ten, bereiteten. 33etreffg 
il^rer nci^renben (gigenfc^aften fie^e @eite 81. 

SSofineu* 33eftanbtl^ei(e. 1 $funb ^Sol^nen, eine 3«3ie' 
fuppe. M, 2 ©^loffel 9?inb§fett, <Ba^ unb ^feffer. 

gutl^aten mac§e man nac^ ©efc^marf. ^ ^funb 
(Sd)n)eineflei[c^ ober cin @d^in!en!nod^en, eine ^riefe 
rotten ^feffer ober eine ©tunbe oor bem 5lnrid)ten, ven 
fd)iebene 55egetabilien, raie gelbe unb mei^e Dfiiiben, jer^ 
^acft unb gefd^mort. 

3Beid§e bie 33ol;nen iiber 3^ad)t in 2 Ot. 2Ba[[cr ein. 
2lm ^J^orgen gtege ab, fe^e fie in frifc^eS Staffer unb 
tod)C mit ber ^wkhd unb bem %dt, hi^ fie ganj wd(^ 
20 U7. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 



In general. These soups should be largely used by 
the economical housewife; they are cheap and nutri- 
tious, and if carefully made and seasoned, excellent 
in taste. A large number of recipes are given, from 
which can be selected what is suited to materials on 
hand, to amount of time and quantity of fire. 

These will be arranged under Vegetable Soups, 
Flour and Bread Soups, and Cold Soups. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

If any meat bones are on hand or trimmings of 
meat not otherwise needed, simmer them from one to 
two hours in water and use the broth thus obtained 
instead of water in making any of the following soups. 

Most important are those made from the dried bean, 
pea and lentil, the three pod-covered vegetables. For 
their nutritive qualities see page 81. 

higredients. 1 lb. beans, 1 onion, 2 
eansoup. tablespoons beef fat, salt and pepper. 

Additions, to be made according to taste. \ lb. 
pork, or a ham bone, a pinch of red pepper, or, an 
hour before serving, different vegetables, as carrots 
and turnips, chopped and fried. 

Soak the beans over night in 2 qts. water. In 
the morning pour off, put on fresh water and cook 
117 



Degctabtlicn^Suppert. U8 

ftnb, ^erbriicfe fie bann ober preffe fie huxd) einen ©ei!^er, 
um bie ^dute gu eiitfernen, unb gib Staffer genug ^u, fo 
tia^ eg giDei Cuart etroaS birfer @uppe gibt. 2Sitqe. 

^iefe ©uppe !ann man aiic^ ou§ fallen, gebacfenen 
33olf)nen bereiten. ©iebe |- ©tunbe ober bi§ fie in ©tiidfe 
gerfaden, feil^e bann bur(^ unb roiiqe. 

©utobe Don getrocfneten, en -^ r • cr, *- r 
gejpalteneu ©rbfen. ®^^^^^^ f^^ ^^^ 33o^nenfuppe^ 

Sinfenfuppe. 33ereite fie raie 33ol^nenfuppe. 
©uppe t)on griinen 2)a§ SSaffer, in raelc^em ^Segetabis 
SSegetabilien. Hen gefodjt wurben, follte nie raegges 

fd^iittet werben, au^er bem ^um ^od^en oon rotl^en Df^iiben 
unb ungefd)alten il'artoffeln oerraenbeten; felbft Bo^^ 
raaffer fann man jur ©runblage einer guten ©uppe oers 
roenben. 

5n I g e m e i n e 3)^ e t ^ o b e. jtod^e hk ^Begetabilien 
U§ fie mdd) finb, gerbriicfe fie ober preffe fie burd^ einen 
®eif;er, oerbiinne fie gel;i)rig unb roiirje. 
a^artoPfuppe. @ut unb biaig. 

S e ft a n b 1 1^ e i ( e. 6 groge, gefc^alte ^artoffeln, 
eine gro^^e ^mkhd, 1 ge^duftcr ^^eeloffel ©al^, ^ i^ees 
loffel ^[effer. 3^^ einer na(;rl;a[teren ©uppe gib ^ ^fb» 
eingefaljeneg ©d)n)einefiei[c^ in ©tiirfe gerfc^nitten gu (in 
biefem %atl falje man meniger), ober eine ^affe Mildi) 
ober ein ^erHepperteS ©i. ^^^'^i^^^s ©eHerieblcitter geben 
einen guten ©efc^macf. 

©iebe i^artoffeln, ^xviehd unb ©alj in dn raenig 
Staffer, unb menu fie fe^r weid) geraorben finb, ^erbriicfe 
fie; gib bann, immer menig an\ einmal unh unter Urns 
rii^rcn, um 5lIIc§ glatt gu l^alten, 1 Ot. l)d^en 2Baf[er§ 
unb einen (5§li)ffel 9f^inO§fett ju, in raelc^em ein @§loffel 
ooll Tld)l gefodjt murbe; ober benul^e bag %dt ^um 
S^often oon 33robn)urfeln, hie man in ber le^ten Minute 
augibt. 

'J)ie mciften Jlod;e [d;moren hie ^erfdinittenen ^wiehel, 
el^e fie fie in hie ©uppe geben, allein ber Unterfdjieb im 



118 Vegetable fioups. 

with the onion and fat till very soft, then mash or 
press through a cullender to remove the skins, and 
add enough water to make 2 qts. of somewhat thick 
soup. Season. 

This soup may also be made from cold baked beans. 
Boil \ hr., or till they fall to pieces, then strain and 
season. 
Split or dried Make like bean soup. 

pea soup. i 

Lentil soup. Make like bean soup. 

The water in which vegetables have 
Green Vegretabie been cooked should ncvcr be thrown 
away, with the exception of that used 
for cooking beets, and potatoes boiled without peeling; 
even cabbage water can be made the basis of a good 
soup. 

General method. Boil the vegetables until very 
tender, mash or press through a cullender, thin suffi- 
ciently and season. 
Potato soup. Good and cheap. 

Ingredients. 6 large potatoes peeled, 1 large onion, 
1 heaping teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon pepper. For a 
richer soup add \ lb. salt pork cut in bits (in this 
case put in less salt) or add 1 cup of milk or a beaten 
Qgg. Chopped celery leaves give a good flavor. 

Boil potatoes, onions and salt in a little water, 
and when very soft mash ; then add, a little at 
a time and stirring to keep it smooth, a qt. of hot 
water and 1 tablespoon beef fat in which 1 tablespoon 
flour has been cooked ; or use the fat for frying bread 
dice, which add at the last minute. 

Most cooks fry the sliced onion before putting it 
in the soup, but the difference in taste is so slight as 



(^3c[d;macf ift etit fo unbcbcutcnbcr, baf^ c§ bie paax ^h- 
nutcn i'^xtva^cit n\d)t wcxii) \]t, loenn bic „Hcit lucrtl); 
»ol{ ift. 

©riine (grbfen- ^ie^ if^ t''»^' bcUfatc uiib \d)x nai)X'^ 
fuppe. (;a[tc (£uppe. f'^hof^c (h-6[en, bic diuas 

^u i)axt }^iun (Mcmiifc finb, fnnn man ju i()rcr ''luTfcrlit^s 
uncj I)cnnt5cn. 

^ e ft a n b t (j c i ( c. i ^^t. (]c[ct;ottc (trl)fcu, 3 ^^Jt. 
Staffer, eine ftcine „^tt)ie6c(, 1 (^f^loffct ^J3utter ober Jctt, 
1 (<rf^(offc( aj^c(;(. (Sat;^ unb ^^^fcffcr. 

(Sct3e (^rOfcn unb ^>^n)ic6e( in fiebenbc^ 2Baf[cv unb 
fod^e I — I ^tunbe, 6i^ fie (^on,^ lucicl) finb. ^^^reffe burd; 
eincn (Jciljcr unb tuiir;^c. 
euppe toon (frbjcn unb ^"^^ib ^u bem £.bi(]cn, inenn c^ 

^45Qrabie^dpfetu. (^ar ift ] ^|?t. (^cbcimpftcr ^^arabics? 

apfct unb etwa<o niCc)r (Mcraiiv,^ ;^u. ^^ics ift cine uor;^iif5; 
Udje (Suppe, ujcldjc bie y^atjrung bcr (^rbfe unb ben 5iBot)U 
gcfd;macf bcS ^^^arabicsapfcl^ befil^t. 
^Parabie^apfet^ ^crtI)uoH wegcu i^rc^ [cincn (^c; 
Juppe. fc^macf^ unb !ann buvcf) i^n(^abc Don 

g(cijd)brii()c, Wiid) obcr C^tcrn nnd; nn(;rl)aft (]cmnd)t 
it)erben. 

© e ft a n b t (j c i (e. 1 ^^^int ^|3avnbic6(ipfc(, 2 ^^int 
SSaffcr, 1 (^f^loffet d^ti, I (^f^loffct md)l, Sn^ unb 
^feffer. 

kod)c bas Wd)i in bem v^ett, c^ib bie gcfdjdltcn ^^^ora? 
bicsdpfet unb o^an^ rvcni(\ gaffer ;^u. SBenn fie ;^crtod}t 
finb, /^crbriirfe fie an ben Seiten be^ 'X^opfes, (]ib ben ^Keft 
bc6 ^nffcr^ unb bie C^crvux^^c ^n. 

^arabieSapfeUSuppe X()ne raie oben, raobci jeboc^ 

^Jlx, 2. \iaii bcr .jpdlfte gaffer, J ^43int 

^)V\{6) ;^u(^eqeben raixb, in inctdjer man \ H^ztViiWzi (£oba 
Dcrriitjrt i)at. 

6uppe toon ^ e ft a n b t I; c i t e. \*%i. ^^O; 

^^aftinaten ftinofen in (Stiicfe i^erfd^nitten, .'i 

ftcine .^tortoffern, 3 ^^^t. gaffer obcr gaffer unb Wxid), 
(Sat^, ^-]3f<^[fer 1^"^ gutter. 



119 • Vegetable Soups. 

not to be worth the few minutes extra time, if time is 

an object. 

This is a delicious soup and very nutri- 
reen pea soup, ^-^^g^ Large peas, a little too hard to 
be used as a vegetable, may be utilized in its manu- 
facture. 

Imjredients. 1 pt. shelled peas, 3 pts. water, 1 
small onion, 1 tablespoon butter or fat, 1 tablespoon 
flour. Salt and pepper. 

Put peas and onion in boiling water and cook \ an 
hour to an hour, till very soft. Press through cul- 
lender and season. 

Pea and tomato Add to abovc when done, 1 pt. stewed 
soup. tomatoes and a little more seasoning. 

This is an excellent soup, having the nutrition of the 
pea and the flavor of the tomato. 

Valuable for its fine flavor, and may 
oma o soup. ^^ made nutritious also by adding broth, 
milk or eggs. 

Ingredients, 1 pt. tomatoes, 2 pts. water, 1 table- 
spoon fat, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper. 

Cook the flour in the fat, add the peeled tomatoes 
and a very little water. When they have cooked to 
pieces, mash them against the side of the pot, add 
the rest of the water and the seasoning. 
Tomato soup Proceed as above, using instead of half 

No. 2. the water, 1 pt. of milk, into which \ 

tea spoon soda has been stirred. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. of parsnips cut in 
arsmpsoup. pj^^gg^ 3 gmall potatoes, 3 pts. water, 
or water and milk, salt, pepper and butter. 

Cook till the vegetables fall to pieces, mash and add 



fegctabilicmSuppcrt. ^20 

^oc^e Big bic 33c(]etabilicn in ©tiicfe jerfatfen unb Q,ih 
bte ©eiBiirge gu. 2!Beim ftatt Staffer t(;ei(n)ei[e 9J^i(d) 
Dcrracnbct icerbcn tann, rcirb bie (Suppe nod) beffer. 
Sunggemiife^ ober 33 c ft a n b t I) e i I e. 1 ^^t. jets 

grul)ling§=©uppe. I^acfter ^i^^^^^^t/ gelber ^^iiben, 
n)eif:;cr 3Ui6en unb vSellerietrurjetn in ungefa^r gleic^en 
^Ijcilen, 1 egliiffer gett, 1 ^^eeloffel 3u(fcr, ©ata unb 
^fefrcr. 

2)cad)e ba§ gett l^eif^, gib 3"^^^/ ^(^h ^^'^ ?^feffer ^u, 
riiljre bann hie 33egetabilien Ijinein, big fie braun gu raers 
ben beginnen, gib 3 ^t. Staffer ju unb ftelle eg ^uriid, 
urn e§ 1 — 2 (Stunben Ieid;t fod)en ju laffcn. 9fiid;te an, 
ol)ne ab^ugief^en. 

©uppen t)on griinem 33 e ft a n b t T; e t T c. -j- ^ulsenb 

SUcaig. griiner 9J?aisat;ren, 3 ^t. Staffer, 

1 (^fetoffet gett unb 1 i^lb^id md)i, (Sat^ unb ^[effer, 
ein (5i unb eine ^affe 9Jti(d). 

©c^neibe ben STtoig Dom .^olben unb ficbe i!^n eine 
©tunbe lang. (^ih ha^ in bem gett gefdimorte 3JJefjt ju, 
nJiir^e unb fei^e. 

©uppe t)on gebSrrtem X^ue rate obcn, nerrcenbe aber 

Wa\§ gebbrrten 9Jiaig, bcr iiber ^adjt 

eingeraeidjt wax unb Sroet (Stunben gefodjt I;at. 
/- ^c r ^*, 35on augqejcidinctcm ©efdbmacf 

^' ' ^^ unb ben 3Jiei|ttn von ung neu, 

23 c ft a n b t Ij e i r e. 1 $t. (Sauerrampfer, leid;teg 
9}?aj^, (rote man if)n in ben ftdbtifdjen Wdxtten fauft ober 
au[ ben gelbern auf bem I'anbe jammelt), 1 groiebet, ein 
paar ©alat; unb ^eterfilien;23latter, alleg fein ^erljadt, 
-J StfjeeloffelnoU ^mugfatnu^, 1 (S^tiiftel ^ett, 2 C^f^lof-- 
fer ^Jkljt, 3 ^^t. 2Sa[[cr, 1—2 (gier, 1 Xaffe aj^ild;, ©alj 
unb ^[effcr 

Wad)C bag gctt I;eif^, gib bie 5err;adten 35egetabilien ju 
unb laffe fie 10 9Jiinuten fd)rait^cn ober bampfen, bann 
gib 9D^et)( ^u unb ,^utct^t bag fodjcnbe ifiaffcr; bie 9J^ild) 
gief^e erft unmittelbar vox bem ^itnric^ten ^u. Xi\(i)c in 
gett gerofteteg 23rob hamit auf. 



1^0 Vegetable Soup^. 

seasoning. If milk can be substituted for part of the 

water the soup will be improved. 

Young vegetable Ingredients. 1 pt. chopped onion, 

or spring soup, carrot, tumips and celery root in about 
equal parts, 1 tablespoon fat, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt 
and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add sugar, salt and pepper, then stir 
the vegetables in it till they begin to brown, add 3 
pts. water and set back to simmer 1 to 2 hours. Serve 
without straining. 

Ingredients. ^ doz. ears green corn, 

reen corn soup. ^ ^^^^ water, 1 tablespoon fat and 1 

tablespoon flour salt and pepper, an Qgg and a cup of 
milk. 

Cut the corn from the cob and boil one hour. Add 
the flour which has been fried in the fat, season and 

strain. 

Make as above, using dried corn. 

Dried corn soup. ,t -li. jr,-i;int, 

soaked over night and boiled 2 hours. 
Sorrel soup. ^n excellent flavor, new to most of us. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. sheep's sorrel, light measure 
(bought in city markets, or gathered in country 
fields), 1 onion, a few leaves of lettuce and parsley 
all chopped fine, -J teaspoon nutmeg, 1 tablespoon 
fat, 2 tablespoons flour, 3 pts. water, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, salt and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add the chopped vegetables and sweat 
or steam for 10 minutes, then add flour and last the 
boiling water; add the milk just before serving. 
Serve fried bread with it. 

"Hit and Miss" ^o illustrate how all bits can be 
soup. used, here is a soup actually made from 

' ' leavings. " 



HTcI^I- unb Srobfuppen. UK 

*^it and Miss"- ^nx Sttuftration, rate jebeS Si?i; 

©up^e. (fjen Derraeubet raerben fann, fotgt 

!§{er eine t^^atfac^lidiDon^Ueberbleibfeln" bereitete (Suppe. 
(Sine 3:a[fe t)oit 3D^acaroni§ abgegoffencg SSaffev, 1 
^affe Don ^o^ abgegoffeneS, mit einigen ^ol^Ifd)ntljern, 
2 !(eine ^nod^en t)om ^alB§braten, etnen fnappen 3:^ees 
loffel gefod^ten dtci§. Saffe bie[e§ mit einer ^cv^adten 
^wichd Uid)t fieben, rod^renb ber fRe^t ber SQ^ittag^mal^ls 
3eit tod)i, oerbirfe mit etroag 9[}^er;i; unb ricfite mit in f^ett 
geriJftetem ^vob an. 

SJ^el^Is unb 33rob[uppen. 

^uu ^^ 33 e ft a n t) 1 1) c i r e. 1 ©poffel ^inb§'. 

jjeei^Huppe. ^^^^^ ^j^ ge^aufter (g§ri3ffe( Me^, 2 ^er. 
f^nittene SraicBeln, 2 5pt. SSaffcr, 1 ^t. 5milc^, 1 Xaffe 
jerquetfc^te Jl^artoffetn, ©al^ unb ^feffer. 

©d^more bie ^rvichdn in bem ^ett, biS fie leid^t Sraun 
ftnb, befeittge fie unter 2{u§briicfen be§ gette§. ^n bems 
felben %ette rofte nun ha§ 3JZe^( bi§ e§ ge(6 mirb unb gib, 
immer raentg auf einmal, ha§ SSaffer ^u. ©cl^iitte bann 
hk 3"^^^^^^^^^ mieber Ijinein unb lag eine SBeite ftel^en; 
bann gib Wild) unb ^artoffel ^u. ©alje gut. 

®ie ^artoffet fann man meglaffen unb etn)a§ mel^r 
3}^e!^t Derraenben. 

©ebronnte m^l)U 33 e ft a n b t ^ e i I e. 1 eglof f el 

fuppe. 33utter ober ^ett, -J ^affe ^^e^I, 2 

$t. 2Ba[[er, 1 ^t. SJ^ilcf), 1 3:rjeeIof[et ©alj. 

33vaune ba§ 9!}Zefj( in bem %dt iiber einem langfamen 

geuer ober im 33ac!ofen; gib langfam ha§ 3Saffer unb bie 

anberen 33eftanbttjeile ju D^^ic^te mit in ^ett geroftetem 

33rob an. 

rti t X m . =- ^^ue mie oben, bloS mit 2Set; 

eJrbrannte ©neSiuppe, • ;= 

' ^^ gengrte§. 

^ 33 e ft a n b 1 1; e i t e. 3;:rodfene§ 33rDb in 

^robluppe. (g^„^g gerbroc^en, SSaffer, ©al^ unb ^fe[. 
fer, eine ^wichcl unb etn)a§ ^ett. 
SSeic^e ha^ 33rob einige 3}iinuten in fod^enbem Staffer 
21 



121 Flour and Bread Soups, 

1 cup water drained from macaroni, 1 cup water 
drained from cabbage, with a few shreds of the cab- 
bage, 2 small bones from roast veal, 1 scant tablespoon 
boiled rice. Simmer these together with a chopped 
onion while the rest of the dinner is cooking, thicken 
with a little flour and serve with fried bread. 

FLOUR AND BREAD SOUPS. 

Flour soup. Ingredients. 1 tablespoon beef fat, 1 
heaping tablespoon flour, 2 sliced onions, 2 pts. water, 
1 pt. milk, 1 cupful of mashed potato, salt and pepper. 

Fry the onions in the fat until light brown; remove, 
pressing out the fat. In same fat now cook the flour 
till it is yellow, and add, a little at a time, the water. 
Put back the onions and let it stand awhile, then 
add milk and potato. Salt well. 

The potato may be omitted and a little more flour 
used. 
Browned Flour Ingredients. 1 tablespoon butter or 

soup. fat, 1 cup flour, 2 pts. water, 1 pt. milk, 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Cook the flour brown in the fat over a slow fire or 
in the oven; add slowly the water and other ingredi- 
ents. Serve with fried bread. 
Browned Farina Make like above, but of wheat farina. 

soup. ' 

Bread soup. Ingredients. Dry bread, broken in bits, 
water, salt and pepper, an onion and a little fat. 

Soak the bread in boiling water for a few minutes, 
add the onion sliced and fried in the fat; salt and 
pepper well. 

Or, use milk instead of water, and toasted or fried 
bread. 

11 



irtildjfuppcn. ^22 

auf, gib baun bte 5erfcf)ntttene iiub in %ett gefc^morte 
3tt)te6et gu, falje unb pfeffeve gut, 

Ober cerraenbe Wilii) ftatt SSaffer unb geri)ftetc§ ober 
in gett gebratencS 33rob. 
^^ubelfuppe. (f. ©» 91.) 

3[}lir^^ ober SJ^e^Ifuppem 

®ic[e finb be[onber§ gut in ^amiHen luit fleinen tins 
bevn unb an faft jebcm ^Ibcnbh-obttfc^ raiUfommcn, ©ie 
[tub Beinal^e ebcnfo gut, n^cnn fie fait gegeffcn tucrben. 

3ur 33ereitung Dcrraenbe einen ^ov^cUanfcffcl obcr 
einen eifcvncn, ber ^uoor mit etiua§ gett bcftvidicn worbcn 
ift, raeil ein bren^lidjcr ©cid^macf bn^ @erid)t Dcvbirbt. 
3Beisenme^Ifuppe 33 e ft a n b t ^ c i I e. 3 ^t. 9Jtild), 1 

(gefalgen.) ^t. gaffer (obcv ^alb ^Saficv unb ^alb 

9}li(d;), 1 ^nffe Wdjl, 2 (S-icv, 2 3:I;eelI3ffe( <Ba^. 

3u ber fod;enbcn 9J^ilc^ ncbft SBaffer gib ba§ mit ctwa§ 
falter 9J^ilc^ glatt nerriitjrte m^l)i an; laffe e§ 10 minuc 
ten foc^en. ^^vfleppere bie ©ier nac^ unb nac^ |inein, 
laffe fie aber nid)t fodien; ric^te mit in gett geri)ftetem 
Srobe an. Serriebener tcife ift eine S>^itljat ju biefer 
©uppe. 

9Beisenme^Ifuppe ^agfelbe, mie oben, jeboi^ nur mit 
(1«fe-) 3Sern)enbung einer ^riefe ®al^ unb al§ 

©eraiirj^ugabe 3 ©Blofjel ^nd^v unb einen 3:l}eeli)ffel 
3immet. DJlan fann bem ©efi^macf ^Ibmec^^lung gcben, 
menu man gerriebene 6;itronenfd)ale, SJlugfatnufi, 3SanitIe, 
bittere 3}Zanbeln ober ^raet frifdje ^firfid)bldtter mit ber 
Mild} jufammen gefodjt Dermenbet. 
^ oi ' a ®^^1"^ B^^^ 3[)Ze^lfuppen irerben nod) beffer, 

^on mxt&. ^^^^ ^.^ ^^^ ^^.^g ^^^^^ ^^^^ gema(^t n)er= 

ben. 

. ^erlgerfte roirb iiber 9^ad)t in SSaffer 

®er[teniuppe. ^[^^^^^[^j- ^^^^ ^ann groei ©tunben lang 

gefod^t, hi§> fie meid) ift. SSci^renb ber le^tcn ©tunbe 
gib 9Jaid) an ©tcUe beg SSaffer^ gu, fomie biefeg eiu:: 
tod)t. SSiirje mit ©al^ unb gutter. 



122 Milk Soups. 

Noodle Soup. (See page 91.) 

MILK SOUPS OR PORRIDGES. 

These are especially good in families where there 
are children, and would be welcome on almost any 
supper table. They are almost equally good eaten 
cold. 

In making, use a porcelain kettle or an iron kettle, 
greasing it first with a little fat, as a scorched taste 
spoils the dish. 

Wheat Porridge Ingredients. 3 pts. milk, 1 pt. of 
(salted. ) water ( or half water and half milk), ^ 
cup flour, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons salt. 

To the boiling milk and water, add the flour stirred 
smooth with a little cold milk; let it cook 10 minutes. 
Beat the eggs in gradually, but do not cook them; 
serve with fried bread. Grated cheese is an addition 
to this soup. 

Wheat Porridge Same as above, but using only a pinch 
(sweet.) Qf gaitj and as flavoring 3 tablespoons 
sugar and \ teaspoon cinnamon. The flavor may be 
varied by using grated lemon peel, nutmeg, vanilla, 
bitter almond or 2 fresh peach leaves boiled with the 
milk. 

Of Fari These two porridges are still better 

made of farina instead of flour. 

Barley Porridge. ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ BO^^Q^ OVer night in 

water, and then cooked for 2 hours till 
soft. During the last hour add milk instead of 
water, as it dries away. Flavor with salt and butter. 
Indian Meal Ingredie7its. 1 cup meal, 2 qts. water. 

Porridge. 1 tablespoon flour, 1 pt. milk, salt, and 

a little ginger (if liked). Boil the meal and water 



i1ttld?=$nppett. t23 

'>})ta\§mei)U 33 e ft a n b 1 1; e 1 1 e. 1 Za\\e Tldjl, 2 Ot. 
fum. SSaffer, 1 (SBIoffel ^DZel;!, 1 ^t. 3(nirrf), ©ala 
unb etiuaS ^ngraer (tcenn man ifjn gcrn Ijat.) ^od)c ha§ 
90^e^( mit bem Sffioffer eine ©tunbe; gib Mc^ unb ®al^ 
3U, fiebe e§ ^ ©tunbe unb gib unmittelbar t)or bem ^tns 
rid^ten bie Wild) 311. 

^afergrit^- 9}lad;e fie auf biefelbe SSeife mit ^afers 

i^PP^' grille ftatt 9[)iel)l. 
@rat)ammel)l= 1 ^a[[e ©ral^amme^ ^u 3 ^t. TOI^ 
1«PPe. unb 2Saf[er. Bodjc 15 SJiinuten lang. 

Wan fann i'i)x ^^lbroec^§tung im ©efd^macf geben, raie ber 
SO^ePfuppe. 

3)ie[e brei 90^eI)Ifuppen fonnen con faltem Wai^c^ ^a^ 
fer= ober ©rct^ammel^lbrei gemac^t merben. 

e^ocokbe^ 33 e ft a n b 1 1) e i r e. i ^fb. ©l^ocolabe, 
fu^pe. 2i Ot. 9}^ild) unb SSaffer, gucfer md) ®es 
fd^macf, 1 (gigelb, ctwa^ 35anille ober ^nnmet. 

^od^e hie ^Ijocolabe in etraaS SBaffer raeic^ unb gib ha§ 
Uebrige ju; menu e§ fiebet, fd)iitte hie iibrigen 33eftanbs 
t^eile l^inein unb todje oben barauf ein gerfc^lagene^ ©is 
raeig Bffelnoltroeife. diid)te mit in %ett geroftetem 
S3rob an. 

S3uttermild)juppe ®ie au§ldnbifc^e j^iic^e 'i)at cerfd^ie' 
ober „^op". bene S^ejcpte fiir biefe ©uppe, hie bet 

un§ gan5lid) unbefannt finb. ®ag ^od;en bringt hie 

©dure ]^erau§, ift man aber einmal an hen ©efc^madf ber 

(Bu])pe gemopit, fo finbet man fie gut unb gefunb. 
33 e ft a n b t !E) e i I e. ^n jebem $t. 33uttermilc^ einen 

©gloffel Wel)l unb einen (gpoffet 33utter, fomie ettva^ 

©al^.^ 

33ringe fie a((mdl;lic^ unter beftdnbigem Umriir;ren ^ur 

35ermeibung he§ ©erinnenS jum £od^en unb giege fie auf 

in %ett gerofteteg 33rDb. 

51 b tr e (^ § I u n g e n. 31^*^^^ i^"^ 3^'^^i^^i merben oft 
3U biefer ©uppe ^ugegebenj ebenfo ber hotter unb ha§ 5U 



iiB Milk SoupL 

an hour; add flour and salt and boil i hour, and add 

the milk just before serving. 

Oatmeal Make in the same way, using oat- 

Porridge. meal instead of flour. 
Graham 1 cup graham flour to 3 pts. milk and 

Porridge, ^yater. Cook 15 minutes. This may 

be varied in flavor like flour porridge. 

These three Porridges can be made from cold corn, 

oatmeal or graham mush. 

Inqredients. 1 lb. chocolate, 24- qts. 
Chocolate Soup. .,,^ , ,* ^ ^ ! t 

milk and water, sugar to taste, 1 agg 
yolk, a little vanilla or cinnamon. 

Cook the chocolate soft in a little water and add 
the rest; when boiling put in the other ingredients 
and cook the beaten white of an Qgg in spoonfuls on 
the top. Serve with fried bread. 
Buttermilk Soup The foreign kitchcii has many recipes 

or "Pop." for this soup quite unknown among us. 
Cooking brings out the acid, but once used to that 
taste, one finds the soup good and wholesome. 

Ingredients. To each pt. of buttermilk, 1 table- 
spoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter, a little salt. 

Bring gradually to a boil, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent curdling, and pour on fried bread. 

Varieties. Sugar and cinnamon are often added 
to this soup; also the yolk and beaten white of 1 Qgg. 
It is considered nutritious for the sick. 

Another. The Germans often add to this soup 
small potatoes, and bits of fried bacon. In which 
case the butter is omitted. 

Or to the buttermilk soup when done, is added 
half the quantity of cooked pears or prunes. 



©(f)aum (^efd^Iagene 3[Bei^c von einent (5i. ©te gi(t aU 
\el)x nafyd)a\t fiir iiranfe. 

@ine anbcre. ^le ^eutfc^en ge6ert oft fleine 
^artoffeln 311 biefcr ^rnpipc, [oraie fteine (Stiicfc^en c^ebra; 
teiicii Specfg. 3" biefem gaUe fann man bie gutter 
rDeg(af]en. 

Ober fann man auc^ ,5U ber 33uttermir(^fuppe, raenn 
fie gar ift, bie ^Jdlfte i(;rer Ouantitat gefod)ter 33irnen 
obcr 3i^ctl'(f)e» jugeben. 

9«ircf)"i8robfuppe. ^[n gefaljene, forfjenbe TOtc^ [cf)iitte 

Jirewis. 33robfrume genug (entroeber SSeif^; ober 

©ral^ambrob), um einen bicfen, glattcn ^rei gu madden. 

©aure 9?al)m= Xiefe (Suppe mirb bringenb ;^um 35cr; 

luppe. |-uc^ empfofjten, ha es raenige 3}^itte( gibt, 

um jo einfarfien StRaterialien einen [0 fiifttic^en @e[(^macf 
5u ge6en. 

33 c ft a n b t ^ e 1 1 e. 3 ^t. SSaffer, | ^a[[e f auren 
'iRai^m unb bie folgenbe ^^ifc^ung: ^ Xaffe 3}Ztlc^, iXaffe 
^teijl, einen 3:^celi)[fet 33utter, -^ (inloffel (Bai], cimn 
Zijnib^hi ?)ndcx, 1 (5i, einen (iHloffei fliiffiger tl^efe ober 
^ Xljeeloffel ^re^f)cte. SJ^ifc^e biefcs ^ufammen in einen 
icig unb laf^ iipi aufge^en, bann [d)op[e bie ^di^tc baoon 
t^celiDtfetraeife in ha§ fod)enbe SSaffer mit bem dia^m; 
^ierauf oerbiinne hen dhft mit SSaffer, bi§ er ^erflicf^t, 
gib ii)n in hit Suppe unb fod)e fie noc^ 5 3J^inuten tang. 
(^ieUeid)t ift nid}t alter Xeig not^roenbigj. 

3Roftfut,t)e 33 e ft a n b t ^ e i r e. 1 ^4^t. 9J^oft, ber ge= 

jjeoinuppe. ^^^^ .^ 05d§ren ift, 1 ^t. aBafjer, 1 tafie 
W\i(i) (fodienb), 1 (ffefiirt^J^ 30^e^(, etraag 3^"^-!"^^ ""^ 
3ucfer. 

£a[fe ben 3Jloft nebft bem Staffer tn§ ^oc^en fommen, 
gib bag %iatt gerriebene Mci)i ^u unb fod;e es ein paar 
i&iinuten; gute^t fiige bie 3}iitc^ Ijinju. (Seroire mit gc; 
roftetem 33rob. Gin (Jigelb fann jugegeben merbcn. 



124 Fruit Soups. 

Brewis. To Salted boiling milk, put enough 

bread crumbs (either white or graham) to make a 
thick smooth porridge. 

This soup is earnestly recommended 

Sour Cream Soup. „ , , ^ , - . , . , 

for trial, as there are few ways m which 
such a delicious taste may be given to simple materails. 

Ingredients. 3 pts. water, \ cup sour cream and the 
following mixture: \ cup milk, \ cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
butter, \ tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 ^gg, 
1 tablespoon fluid yeast or \ teaspoon compressed 
yeast. Mix these together into a dough and let it 
get light, then drop half of it in teaspoonfuls into 
the boiling water and cream; then thin the rest with 
water until it will pour, add it to the soup and cook 
5 minutes. (Not all the dough may be needed.) 

Ingredients. 1 pt. cider just begin- 
^' ning to work, 1 pt. water, 1 cnp milk 

(boiling), 1 tablespoon flour, a little cinnamon and 
sugar. 

Let cider and water come to a boil, add the flour rub- 
bed smooth, and cook a few minutes; and lastly add 
the milk. Serve with toast. An Qgg yolk may be 
added. 

FRUIT SOUPS. 

To he eaten Warm or Cold. 

These are made of almost any well flavored fruit, 
cooked soft and mashed, sufficient water added, with 
a little thickening, sugar and spice. They are espe- 
cially welcome in summer; may be eaten as a first 
course, or set aside to be used as a drink during the 
meal. 



£) I) ft [ u p p e n. 

S&axm 0^cv fait m effctt. 

®te[e tuerben faft au§ jeber tt)o(}I[d)tne(fenben (Sorte 
Dbft bereitet, ba§ man rceid) foc^t unb gerbriicft, raobet 
man geniigenb SBaffer sugibt nebft eiiitger ^Serbicfung, 
3u(fer unb ©eraiir^. ©ie finb be[onber§ tm ©ommer 
rcitttommen; fie !6nnen al§ erfter ©ang gegeffen ober bet 
©ette geftetit rcerben, urn beim ©ffen al§ ©etrdnf ^u 
^ienen. 

0Y.,c r: V,. en -. 23 e ft a n b t b c 1 1 e. 4 ^affen ges 

Welluppe, ^0. 1. j^^.j^^; ^^^^ ./^ ^^^.^^ jertl^eilter 

5Iepfer in etrva^ 2Sa][er ^u 23rct jerfoc^t, li ^t. Staffer, 
1 X^ecloffel gjZaigfttirfe, 3 Xljeeloffel 3uc!er, i X^ee^ 
loffel 3^n^wet, eine ^riefe (Bal^, 
^ 2 ®"^ ©uppenteUer doII ^lepfel, 1 Xaffe S^ceig. 

* i!od;e fie rocic^ unb treibe fie burc^ ein ©ieb uns 
ter Sugabe uon etwa^ B>^idn', B'^^^^^f (5itronen[d)a(e unb 
einem (gibotter. 55erbunne geniigenb mit Staffer. 

o ©tatt dici^ rerraenbe in obigem D^e^ept 33rob 

* nttt 3^9"^^ einiger J!^orintl^en. 

©tatt dici§ nennenbe ^afergrii^e unb !od^e 

'^^' fie, big fie lueic^ ift, ober beniii^e fd)on ge!orf)te. 

SQZac^e fie mic Slpfelfuppe, raenn aber 

^flaumeniuppe. ^.^ spfiaumen fe^r fauer finb, gib dma^ 

®oba ju,— i ^^eeloffel auf 1 Ot. ©uppe. 

Strb auf bie[elbe 2Bei[e bereitet. ^iefe 
^iri(^enfuppe. (g^pp^n fann man and; au§ geborrten 
^fiaumen, ^raetfc^en ober geborrten (Sauerfirfd)en berei^ 
ten. 2Beid)e bie ^-riic^te iiber D^ac^t ein. 
©uppen au§ S3ir* SSenn (Suppe au§ milberen grii^ten, 
nen ufra. i^ie 33irnen, bereitet roirb, meldie in 

mand)en 3al)ren fer)r bittig finb, fo gib ein paar ©auer^ 
cipfel ober mel;r ©erour^ ^u, um i^r guten @e[c^macf gu 
oerlei^en. 



l^i Fruit SoupL 

, , , Inqredients. 4cupspeeled and quaf- 

Appie soup, No. i / T 1 1 X 1 • 

tered apples, cooked to a mush in a 

little water, 1^ pts. water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 3 

teaspoons sugar, \ teaspoon cinnamon, a pinch of salt. 

No. 3. A soup plate full apples, 1 cup of rice. 

Cook soft and rub through a sieve, adding a little 

sugar, cinnamon, lemon peel, and an Qgg yolk. Thin 

sufficiently with water. 

No. 3. Instead of rice, use in the above recipe 

bread with the addition of a few India currants. 

No. 4. Instead of rice, use oatmeal and cook 

till soft, or use that already cooked. 

Make like apple soup, but if the 
Plum Soup. ^ ^ ^ ^^ , . - 

plums are very sour add a little soda, 

— \ teaspoon to a qt. of soup. 

Cherry Soup. Made in the same manner. 

These soups may also be made of dried plums, prunes 

or dried sour cherries. Soak the fruit over night. 

Soups of Pears, If soup is made of a milder fruit, as 

etc., pears, which are at some seasons so 

cheap, add a few sour apples or more spice, to give 

flavor. 



^niijaien fu ^nppsn. 



<J^I ?^^"^ ®"^P^ "^*^ ^^^f^^9 genug tft, fo fonneit 
Jjmct) unt) (?ier gugegeben raerben, raenn ®u feine ^Ui^d)-. 

^''nihPn^"^"^ o. '^'^ ^' ^'^^' aer^eppert, mit einem 
geoen ^^^^ -^g^. @^pp^ uermijc^t, bann 311 bent 

^Jtelte gegeben, ahev nidgt gefotten trerben. 3)ag ©elbe 
ift fur bicfeii ^iDecf Beffer atg bag SSeige. 

gleifd^ejtraft. ^i^^ig'^ grei[d;ertvaft ift fe^r mcvtlpoU, 
urn emer ©uppe ©efc^macf 311 qeben, fiir 
ben aagemeinen @e6raud; akv ift ev 3U foftfpieltg. 

1. met)!. ®^^^ ^'^"^ "^^" ^^"^9^ $D?inuten mit ber 

' ©uppe fieben, nod^bem man e§ mit etraag 
SBafi'er gtatt gemengt l)at, ober beffer, foc^e e§ in etraaS 
©utter ober gertaffenem D^inbSfett, ef)e ®u eg in hk 
(^uppc gibjt. 

2. ^robteig .^^^" 53a(ftag l;e6e etroag non bem 33rob= 

teig auf, uerbunne it)n ]^inreid)enb, fo bag 
er scrfliegt, unb gib, menu ^n willft, mx ^erfi^Iageneg 
@i su. ©e^e il;n fobann einefialbe ©tunbe beifeite, bamit 
er raieber gefjt, unb menu er aufgegangen ift, fc^iitte ihn 
in hie @uppe. 

3 ®rieg ®ie|e§ ^rtiparat non SBei^en, ha§ gegens 

mdrtig pfunbtneife ju rafonabten ^rcifen 
t)er!auft rairb, ift al§ ^ugabe gur ©uppe l;oct)ft roertf^Doa; 
man hxandjt if)n btog fjinein^ufc^iitten unb ein paar 3(u= 
genblicfe fieben 3U laffen. 

4 ^artoffeln Berbriidfte ^artoffeln mit etwa§ mild) 

nermengt ober gericbene, falte Jlartoffeln 
!ann man gu ber ©uppe geben, urn fie faljmig 3U mad;cn. 

5 ©erfte ®^^ ^^" ^^^ ©uppe eine ©tunbc, e()e fie 

' * gar ift, ^erlgerftc, hie iiber9?ad;t in 3Baffer 
eingen)eic£)t tuar. 

126 



ADDITIONS TO SOUPS. 



If your soup has not strength enough, milk and 
eggs may be added if no meat stock is at hand. 

The egg should be beaten, mixed with 
ow ggs. ^ kittle of the soup, then added to the 

rest, but not boiled. The yolk is better for this pur- 
pose than the white. 

Liebig's meat extract is very valuable 

Meat Extract. , -, ,. ^ . ■, j_ •, - j. 

for adding flavor to a soup but it is too 
expensive for general use. 

This may be boiled a few minutes 
with the soup after being mixed smooth 
in a little water, or better, cook it in a little butter or 
melted beef fat before adding to the soup. 

On bakins: day, save a little of the 

2. Bread Sponge. , , i ^.-u • u ^ 

bread sponge, make thm enough to 
pour, and if you wish, add a beaten egg. Set away 
half an hour to rise again, and when light pour into 
the soup. 

This preparation of wheat, now sold 
by the pound at a reasonable price, is 
most valuable as an addition to soup ; it needs only 
to be sprinkled in and boiled for a few moments. 

Mashed potato mixed smooth with a 
little milk or grated cold potato may 
be added to soup to give body. . 

126 



gutljaten 5U Suppett. \22 

„ ^ . ©ine I)al6e ©tunbe Dor bem Hnricf)ten gt5 

3U einem Ouart ©uppe 1 (Sgloffet 9tei§. 
7 9^ h S^n 33a(fofen l^artgeborrte SSrobftiicfefoTts 

• 'oro . j^^j^ unmtttelbar vox bem 3(nrt(^ten ber 
©uppe betgegeben raerben, ober tofte fie in ber 33rats 
pfanne in etwa^ Df^tnbSfett, ober weic^e fie in Tlil<^ unb 
(St ein, e^e ®u fie rofteft. Ober rofte 't>a§ 33rob auf bem 
dio]t unb fc^neibe e§ in cierecfige ©tiicfe. 

„ . . 3rgenb tueli^eS ^(etngemiife !ann man 

"^"'^* Beigeben, roie ©pargelfpil^en, fteine 3"^^^= 
Beld^en, bie juerft in einem anberen ^opf gefoc^t morben 
finb, gefodjte ©ibfen, 33o^nen u\w. @ine beliefite ruffis 
fc^e ©uppe ift ^^inbfteifd^fuppe mit einer ^i^S'i'^^ ^^^ ^'^s 
tl^en 9^iiben, £ol;l unb gelben ?fiuhen, 

©efjr raic^tig unter aVien ^eigaben jur ©uppe finb "oh^ 
jenigen, beren 3uBereitung graar etwa§ mel;r ^cit cers 
iangt, hie jebod) ber 3[)^iil;e mert^ finb, menn bie ©uppe 
ber ig)auptt|eit ber Tla^l^eit fein foU. ©old;e finb folgenbe: 

^lofe fiir ©uppen unb ©aucen. 

^ie[e§ SSort 'i)at einen unangenef^men £lang, meit e§ 
gu fel^r an bie fdjraeren, ungefunben illofe erinnert, bie 
oft unter biefem 9'Zamen aufgetifdjt raerben, aUein eg 
fd^eint feinen anberen Dlamen gu geben, unter roelc^em 
W\c oerfc^iebenen ^^raparate flaffificirt merben !i)nnen. 
^l^re ©runblage finb Srob unb (^ier ober 3!}^eljt unb 
@ier. 

SDa§ ]^ter erraal^nte 33rob ift IjarteS, trocfeneS 33rob; e§ 
mug in fattem 2Baffer aufgeraeic^t roerben (roarmeS 2Baf; 
fer mad^t eg teigig), bann briide man e§ in einem ^uc^e 
an^ unb ^erfriimle e§. 

^leifAflfiie ^^3^"^ n)er^e§ ge!od;te gleif^, ober 

" ' -* ' * aud^ oerfc^iebene ©orten, menu man ^u 
toenig ju anberraeitiger 33ern)enbung con jcber l^at, mirb 
^er^dtt unb mit ebenfo vid gefat^enem unb gcpfeffertcm 
33rob, ettoag gerl^adtem Dtierenfctt ober 33uttcr, ober nod; 
j^effer mit Mart unb einer 3er(jadften ^xvichd unb einigen 



127 Additions to Soups. 

5. Barley. Add to the soup 1 liour before it is done 

pearl barley that has been soaked over night. 

One-half hour before serving, add to 

soup 1 tablespoon of rice to a quart of soup. 

Bits of bread dried hard in the oven, 

may be added to the soup just before 

serving, or fry them in the S2:>ider in a little beef fat, 

or soak in milk and Qgg before frying. Or, toast 

bread and cut in squares. 

Anv small veo^e tables may be added, 

8. Vegetables. , - ° , r. . 

such as asparagus tops, tmy onions 
that have been first boiled in another pot, cooked 
peas, beans, etc. A favorite Eussian soup is beef 
soup, with the addition of beets, cabbage and carrots. 
Most important of all additions to soup are those 
which need a little more time to prepare, but are 
worth the trouble if the soup is to be the principal 
part of the dinner. Such are the following: 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUPS AND STEWS. 

This word has an unpleasant sound, too suggestive 
of the heavy and unwholesome balls often served 
under this name, but there seems to be no other name 
under which these different preparations can be 
classed. Their basis is bread and eggs, or flour and 
eggs. 

Bread mentioned here is hard dried bread ; it must 

be softened by soaking in cold water ( hot water makes 

it pasty), then press it dry in a cloth and crumble it. 

Any cooked meat or several different 

kinds when there is too little of each 

to be otherwise used, is chopped fine and mixed with 



Klofc fiir Suppcn unb Saucen. ^28 

^xdukxn cermengt, unb 311 jeber Xaffe oon biefer SD^ifd^s 
ung gi6 ein @t. 30Zifd)e letd)t burd)einanber, forme fleine 
£ld[e barau§ unb todjc fie gang leidjt in fiebenber (Suppe. 
^robire erft einen, um gu fe()en, oh er jufammenl^dlt, 
loenn nic^t, gib noc^ ctma§ Mci)l gu. 

cK'iri,?r«i 9^imm ftatt 3}ZeP irgenb einen gefo(f)ten, 

t^tjc^ndie. j^.^^ ^er^acften gif^, 

oY^ tt,u.^ Stt'ei ^ier m 1 3:affe 33rob unb 93?arf 

3JiarffIdg^en. ^^^ ^g.^^..^,^ ^^^.^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^.^ ^^^^^^ 

^^ ^s...r ©tatt SDlav! nimm SSiirfet con braunqei 

®''^'«'°'^- bratencm ©pcrf. 

5l(Ie biefe SDlifc^ungen fi3nnen aud§ in einer ^fanne al§ 
Omeletten gefd)mort ober gebacfen raerben. 

mm-' unb ®rei ^affen l^atb 33rob ^alb a}Ze^r, 1 

S3rob!iafe. (ji^ 33utter t)on (Sigrbfec, 1 Xaffe Wild) unb 
SSaffer, (Salj. 3Seid)e bag 33rob in bem SSaffer unb ber 
Wii(ii ein unb forme e§ mit ben anberen ^cftanbtf)eilen 
jufammen in !eine Jllbfe. ^od^e fie gugebecft 15 dJlinuc 
ten (fie fiinnen and) in ©aljraaffer gefod^t unb mit Obft 
gegeffen merben). 

g. . (^in (Si, 1 ^^eelbffel voK mcl)l dxva^ ^al^, 

i^i si9- (gc^iage t)a§ 2Bei^e non einen: (Ji gu @c§aum, 
rermenge e§ lei(|t mit bem Uebrigen unb gie§e e§ oben 
auf bie ©uppe. 2)rel;e e§ nac^ einigen 3l}^inuten mit 
einem (Sd^aumlbffel um unb jerfdineibe in ©titcfe, e!^e 3)u 
e§ in hie ^errine fd;iitteft. 

dlo. 2. (^in gefiaufter (S^lbffct voU Tldjl gu 1 (Si 
unb bem @elben Don einem groeiten, unb 1 ^^eeloffel 
33utter. S^ii^re ftarf um unb fd^opfe e§ mit einem ^l^ees 
Ibffel i^inein. 
^^ c - .... <Sin <Si, 3 ©poffer StJlir^, na^eju i 

einen Xrid^ter in @uppe, ober in ©aljmaffer, fod^e 
5 SJiinuten lang unb benu^e fie al§ 33eilage gum D^iinbs 
fleif^. 



128 Dumvlings for Soups mid Stetvs. 

as much bread, salted and peppered, a little chopped 
suet or butter, or better still, marrow, and a chopped 
onion and some herbs, and to each cup of this mix- 
ture allow an egg. Mix lightly, make out into little 
balls and cook in Yery gently boiling soup. Try one 
first to see if it holds together. If not, add a little 
flour. 

Substitute for the meat any cooked 

Fish balls. ^ , -, -, ri 

fish, chopped fine. 

Tavo eggs to 1 cup of bread and mar- 
Marrow balls. • o ^ 1 Ti/r 1 

row Size of an egg, cliopped. Make as 

above. 

Instead of marrow, add cubes of 

Bacon Balls. , j? • i i 

bacon tried brown. 
All these mixtures can also be fried in a pan as an 
omelette, or baked. 

Flour and Bread Three cups, half bread, half flour, 1 
Balls. Qgg^ butter size of an egg, 1 cup milk 

and water, salt. Soak the bread in the milk and 
water, and make out into little balls with the other in- 
gredients. Cook, covered, 15 minutes (may also be 
boiled in salted water and eaten with fruit ). 

One es^ff, 1 teaspoon flour, a little 

Egg Sponge. tl t^ I x -t -e i / 

salt. Beat white of egg to foam, mix 
lightly with the rest and pour on top of the soap. 
Turn over in a few minutes with a skimmer, and be- 
fore putting into the turreen, cut it in pieces. 

'No. 2. 1 heaping tablespoon flour to 1 egg and the 
yolk of another, and 1 teaspoon butter. Beat hard 
and drop in with a teaspoon. 

Schwabenspet- One egg, 3 tablespoons milk, nearly 
zei. I cup of flour, salt. Pour through a 



1 



Klofe fiir Suppcn unb 5auccTt. U9 

. . ^,„. (Sine coniiglid^e 3"9a'^^ ^it ^i"^i^ 

S3igcuitteig=i^Ioie. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^-^ 33i§cuit= ober 

3it)te6a(ftetg ([. ®. 98), ber in ^Ibfe t)on nid^t me^r al§ 
j^aftaniengrii^e geformt unb in ber @auce gefod^t ober in 
einem Zu^e bariiber in ^ampf gefotten ift. 
^uttermild^* gerner nocf) foIgenbe§ au§ SSuttermild^: 
^li^fe. 1 Za\\e 33uttermilc^, i ^^eeroffel @oba, 1 

(Si, ©alj, unb 9[Jle^l genug, bamit fic^ ber -teig nod) 
li3ffel[n)ei|e ]^tneinfrf)opfen Ici^t. 

. (55eforf)te3}Zacaroni§ in ©tiicfe t)on3otItange 
ajJacarom. gej^„itten finb eine angenel;me S>H^^^ 5"^ 
©uppe. 



32 



129 Dumplings for Soups and Steivs. 

funnel into soup or into salted water, cook 5 min- 
utes and use to garnish beef. 

Biscuit Dough An excellent addition to a stew or 

Balls. soup is of biscuit or rusk dough ( see 

page 98), made into balls no larger than a chestnut, 

and cooked in the stew, or steamed in a cloth above 

it. 

Also the following of buttermilk: 1 

Buttermilk Balls. i ,i ^^^ ^ i^ ^ i -. 

cup buttermilk, ^ teaspoon oi soda, 1 
Qgg, salt, and flour enough to allow of the batter 
being dropped in spoonfuls. 

Cooked macaroni cut in pieces an 

inch long, is a pleasant addition to soup. 



1 



^el/djntatk&ixxBt^ben obev (f^etxtixv^e. 



Ol^ne Sroetfel ift „§unger ber Befte ^oc^," aaein e§ ift 
nid)t raa^r, ha^ 'Ha^ 3Serlangen nac^ 2l6tt)ed)§lung, tDie 
3Sie(e benfen, etnBetc^en t)on einem uberfatttgten unb um 
Ttatiirnc^ert SIppetitt ift; felbft oon ^f)teren, bie trir ni^t 
be[d)ulbigen fonucn, bag fie „16e[onbere ©eliifte" ^aben, 
roeig man, ^a^ fie unter ben ^anben be§ ©rperimenta^ 
tor§ geftorBen finb, e^e fie Dodfommen na^^r^fteS gutter 
ttnru^rten, befjen ©efc^madf fie miibc geroorben waren, 
unb ©efangenen ift \d)on ein gu oft n)ieberfe^renbe§ @es 
rirf)t fo 5um Ueberbrng geraorbcn, ha)^ fie fid) fcf)on bet 
feinem 2lnbli(f ober @erud) erbredjen mugten. 

2Sa§ roir @e[d)mad§5ugaben ncnnen, fann jur iDtrf^ 
Iid)en 9^a^rung ge^oren, ober auc^ nid)t, gleifc^ ift reic^ 
an @ei^marf§5ugaben, unb jebe grud)t l^at if)ren eigen^ 
t^umlidien ©efc^mad; bann aber gibt e§ and) ©eraiirje 
unb aromati]d)e ^rduter, weld^e nidjt ©eftanbt^eile wixh 
richer 9^a!)rung finb, unb e§ ift t)on grower ©ebeutung, 
ha^ bie ^od)in bie ^unft uerftc^t, mitbfc^medenben 
©peifen biefelben al§ ©efc^madsugaben beijufiigen, urn 
au§ benfelben neue @erid)te ^u mac|en, hie nal;rl)a[t unb 
appetittrei^enb finb. ®a§ ^eifte Don unferer S^af^rung 
mug au§ bem glci[c§ ciniger wentgen 2:I}ierarten, einem 
l^alben SDu^enb ©etreibeforten unb ungefa^r ebenfo vicUn 
@artengen)dd)[cn beveitet merbcn, hie gefdjidte £6c^irt 
aber !ann mit ,g)ilfe anberer ©efdimacfS^ugaben eine enbs 
lofe 9}Ianigfaltigfeit non ©eric^ten barau§ beretten. 

(S:in Slmerifaner, ber ha§ europdifd)e geftlanb bcreift, 
rairb mit oielenneuen @ertd;ten unb @e[c^mad§rid^tungen 
befannt, unb ob[d)on iljm nidjt alle be^agen, mug er 
hod) ^u bem ©(^Inffe fommen, bag unfere ^'lidie, 3. 35. 
im 3Serglcid; mit ber franjofif^en fel;r einfijrmig ift. 2Bir 

t30 



FLATOES OE SEASOIsTINGS. 



Without doubt " hunger is the best sauce/' but it 
is not true, as many think, that a craving for variety 
is the sign of a pampered and unnatural appetite; 
even animals, whom we cannot accuse of having 
^* notions," have been known to starve in the exper- 
imenter's hands rather than eat a perfectly nutri- 
tious food of whose flavor they had wearied, and pris- 
oners become so tired of a too oft repeated dish that 
they vomit at the sight and smell of it. 

What we call flavors may or may not be associated 
with a real food. Meats are rich in flavors and each 
fruit has its peculiar taste; then, there are the spices 
and aromatic herbs which are not parts of a real food, 
and it is most important that the cook should under- 
stand the art of adding these as seasonings to mild tast- 
ing foods, so as to make new dishes which shall be both 
nutritious and appetizing. The bulk of our nourish- 
ment must be made up of the flesh of a few animals, 
a half-dozen grains and as many garden vegetables, 
but the skillful cook can make of them, with the 
help of other flavors, an endless variety of dishes. 

An American traveling on the continent of Europe 

becomes acquainted with many new dishes and tastes, 

and although not all of them are to his liking, he 

must conclude that our cookery, compared for in- 

130 



(Seu)ur3C. tSt 

^aBen ganj ficf)er ben 35Drt^et( oor ben (Suropdern t)oi*s 
au§, bag unjere 3Uidrfte un§ eine grogere SQ^anigfaltigfeit 
Don natiirlic^en 9^a^rung§mttteln, 6e[onber§ grud)ten 
6teten, uon rcel^en jebe if)ren etgenen @e[d)ma(f l)ai, unb 
btefe X^atfadje madjt un§ etraaS una6I;dngiger oon ber 
^odjfunft; tro^bem aber fonnen rair jebe Section ber 2lrt 
roo^l braud^en, unb gan^ be[onber§ tft bie§ ber ^att bei 
bem Slrmen, raelc^er fid^ an bie bitltgften S^a^rungSmittel 
^alten mug, bie an unb fur fid) nid)t reid) an ©efc^mad 
finb. 

©eraiirje unb anbere ©efc^madSgugaben, rcenn fie nic^= 
im Uebermag genommen raerben, reijen unfere ^erbau? 
ungSorgane an, fid} bie 9^at)rung§mittel, n)eld)en biefeU 
ben beigegeben finb, leic^ter anjueignen. S^]X angene^? 
mer ©eruc^ bringt hk 3Serbauung§fdfte im SJ^unbe fo^ 
mo^l, mie im SJlagen in SSemegung, unb i^r ©efd^mad 
in feiner (ginmirfung auf ben @aumen ^at benfelben 
(gffeft. 

3)ie gemij^nlidieren ©emiir^e unb ©efc^madSjugoben, 
n)ie fie bie §au§|rau oerraenbet, finb (Salj, ^feffer, @enf, 
gimmet unb 3Jiu§catbliit()e, 3[Ru§catnu§, D^elfen, ^ng- 
raer, ^iimmel; unb Sorianberfamen, ^SaniHe unb oiele 
fliic^tigen Oele roie bie in ber (Sitronen; unb Orangen^ 
female entl^altenen; unb ^u biefer 2iftt miiffen mir nod) 
gemiffe 35egetabilicn gd^len, mie ben 3[}Zeerrettig unb oer^ 
fc^iebene ©lieber ber ^roiebelfamilie, ^apern unb ^apm 
^inerfamen unb bie aromatifd)en ^rduter. 

5^iefe aUe laffen fid^ gebrauc^en unb mipraudf)en. 
@alj mirb in biefer Sifte faum errad^nt, fiir fo notljnjen- 
big I)a(ten roir e^, unb fein @ebrauc| rairb oon unferem 
©aumen gut genug birigirt, obfc^on mir o^ne S^^^if^''^ 
unfere ©peifen efjer ^u ftar! alg ^u fd^mad) foljen. 
^feffer mirb faft in jebem §au§f)alt im Uebermag oer; 
raenbet unb mirb ju oielen ®erid;ten beigegeben. ®er 
beigenbe @enf fodte no(^ oorfic^tiger oerroenbet merben; 
ein menig baoon aber gibt einem ©alat ober einer ^leifd); 



131 Flavorings. 

stance, with that of the French, is very monotonous. 
To be sure, we have the advantage of the European 
in that our markets offer us a greater variety of nat- 
ural foods, especially fruits, each having a flavor of 
its own, and this fact makes us somewhat more inde- 
pendent of the art of the cook; but still we have need 
for every lesson of this sort, and especially is this the 
case with the poor, who must keep to the cheapest 
food materials, which are not in themselves rich in 
flavor. 

Spices and other flavors, when not used to excess, 
stimulate our digestive organs to appropriate more 
easily the food to which they are added; their agree- 
able odor starts the digestive juices, both in the 
mouth and in the stomach, and their flavor acting 
on the palate has the same elfect. 

The more common spices and flavors, as the house- 
wife uses these terms, are salt, pepper, mustard, cin- 
namon and mace, nutmegs, cloves, ginger, caraway 
and coriander seeds, vanilla, and many volatile oils, 
such as those contained in the rind of lemons and 
oranges; and to this list we must add certain vegeta- 
bles, as the horseradish and various members of the 
onion family, the caper and nasturtium seeds, and the 
aromatic herbs. 

All these have their use and their abuse. Salt is 
hardly thought of in this list, so necessary do we con- 
sider it, and its use is well enough governed by our 
palate, though no doubt we over, rather than under 
salt our foods. Pepper is also in nearly every house- 
hold used to excess, being added to too many dishes. 
The pungent mustard should be still more carefully 



(Scrr)ur3C. t32 

fauce 2BoI}tge[(^ma(f unb eignet fid; Be]'onber§ fiir gett)t[[e 
^SegetabtHen, rate ibo(;nen. 3^^^^^^/ SJZu^catBluttje unb 
Tlu^catnu^ vcxvocnhcn wix gerao^ulid) ^u fiifeen @evtd); 
ten, bie ^J^u^catnu^ a^iU tnbeffcn au^ Ijiibfc^e Slbraec^S; 
lung in gen)i[[cn ©orten von ©ampffleifd; unb in ^leifc^- 
ifitc^eldjen; au§lanbifd;e Stbd)e uerracnben fiir unferen @e; 
fc^mad vid ju ciel boDon. 33einal^e bie einjige ^ers 
n)enbung, bie rair fixr ^iimmel:: unb g^orianberfamen l^a? 
ben ift bei ^lat^c^en; ben erfteren probirc man gur 516= 
raed^glung in ber ^artoffelfuppe. 3ngtt)er fc^eint fid) gut 
^u Wai§mcl)l in einem Rubbing ober einer 9J^eI;l[uppe ^u 
eignen, unb ^u SD^olaffe, wo hk\e oerraenbet roirb. 

®ie 35ern)enbungen ber ^ii^icbeln unb ber aromatifc^en 
£rduter an^ufiil;ren racire eine ^n xucit fiil;renbe ^hifgabe. 
2)te le^teren fann man getrodnet fef)r billig faufen, unb 
fie §alten i^ren @e[d)mad gut; eine§ ber brauc^bavften 
inbeffen, bie ^eterfilie, ift frifd) oiel beffer; man l^alte fic^ 
balier unter alien Umftanben ein £iftd)en, tn raelc^em man 
fie an einem ^enfter raadjfen laffen faun, dlad) ber 
3miebel ift uietleidjt ©eHerie alg @efd)mad§^ugabe am 
braudjbarften ju ©uppen unb ©aucen, ha hex i^v 3llle§, 
^Burjel, ©tengel, 33latter unb ©amen, mertljuoU ift. 

33cim ^Biir^en oon ©uppen unb ©aucen t^ut man gut 
eine ^Injaljl Don ©efc^madg^ugaben gu benu^en, o^ne eine 
Dor ber anberen t)orfd)meden ^u laffen; auf ber anberen 
(Btitc ift e§ gut, geraiffe Siebling^gerid)te immer auf bie 
gleii^e 3Sei[e ju miirjen, mie frifd)e§ ©d^meinefleifd) mit 
©albei; 33robfiill[el mit ©Dmmer=©aturei ufro. 



13^ Flavorings. 

used; but a little of it adds relish to a salad or a meat 
sauce, and goes especially well with certain vegetables, 
as beans. Cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, we use prin- 
cipally with sweet dishes, but nutmeg makes a nice 
variety in certain meat stews and in croquettes; 
foreign cooks use it far too much to suit our taste. 
Almost our only use of the caraway and coriander 
seeds is in cookies ; try the former in a potato soup 
for variety. Ginger seems to go well with Indian 
meal in a pudding or porridge, and with molasses, 
wherever used. 

To give the uses for onions and for the aromatic 
herbs would be too long a task. The latter can all be 
bought in a dried state very cheaply, and they retain 
their flavor well; one of the most useful, however, 
parsley, is much better fresh ; by all means keep a 
little box of it growing in a window. Perhaps, after 
onion, celery is most useful as a flavor for soups and 
stews, root, stem, leaves and seeds being all valuable. 

In the flavoring of soups and stews, it is well to use 
a number of flavors, letting no one of them be promi- 
nent above the others ; on the other hand, it is well 
to have certain favorite dishes seasoned always in the 
same way ; as fresh pork with sage; summer savory 
in a bread dressing, etc. 



©^ttrtink^ fu plixliljuit^n^ 



(Sin Jt)arme§ ©etrdnfe ift bet aJlaljljeiten Beffer aU eiit 
falteg, Befonberg im SSinter obcr pi irgenb einer ^eit, 
U)enn rotr miibe [tnb, unh ha§ ^riiifen Don (SiSraaffer 
fann nic^t nac^briidlic^ S^^iiS Derbanimt raevben, rccil eg 
bie 3:emperatuv beg SO^ageng erniebrigt unb fo bie 3Ser> 
bauung cer^ogert. 2Barme @evid§te, hie bem ©aumen 
angene^m, BiSig unb unfc^ablid; finb, ^u jeber Ttal)l^dt 
3u liefern, tft felne Uid)te ^hifgabe. ,gat man erft eins 
mal ©uppen ober gtei[c^6rul;e otg einen 33eftanbtf;eil ber 
pei Mal)l^eiten beg 3:ageg eingefii^rt, nne man eg (;dufig 
in (Suropa jtefjt, fo ift bag problem I;aI6 getoft; tfjatfd^s 
lid) finb einige ber Ijier angegebenen ©etrdnfe eigentlic^ 
biinne ^Segetabilien; ober 9}U'!)lfuppen, mefc^en ©al^ ober 
3ucfer je nac^ ©efc^macf ^ur SBiir^e beigegeben merben 
fann. 

e, cc 2Benn man cerfd^iebene ©c^riftftetTer iiber 

^^^^' biefen ©egenftanb mit einanber rergleic^t, 
mug man ju bem ®d)lug fommen, ha^, obfd^on ber Jl'afs 
fee iit ^Serbauung etmag cerjogert unb a(g ©timutang 
ttuf bag 9^erDenfi)ftem einmirft, eine ober felbft ^roei^^afs 
fen mdgig ftarfen Jlaffeeg beg 2:ageg einer gefunben 
^erfon nidjtg fc^aben. SSir fonnen baf;er be^aupten, 
tta^ fein ©chxaud) in biefer 3iugbe^nung eine blofe ^rage 
beg ^^oftenpunftg ift. 

^aoa unb Wotfa ^affee ju gleidjen Zl)eiUn gemifd^t, 
gilt fiir bie befte9}?if(^ung. 9^io ift oiet billiger unboon 
ftarfem, reinen @efd)macf. ®ie Ouantitdt, hie pi mdgig 
ftarfem Jl'affee gebraud;t mirb, ift ein @fe(offel(gemaf;[en) 
3U einer 3:affe. 

(5:id)orie rairb f)ier alg blofeg galfd^unggmittel hetvad)^ 
tet, n)d!§renb in (Suropa ein gan^ fleineg Sigd^en baoon, 
etraa i ^t)eeloffel prdparirter (Sid^orie ^u einer ^affe ges 
33 J 33 



DEI]:^KS AT MEALS. 



A warm drink at meals is better than a cold one, es- 
pecially in winter or at any time when we are tired; and 
the drinking of ice water cannot be too strongly con- 
demned, lowering as it does the temperature of the 
stomach and so delaying digestion. To furnish warm 
drinks for each meal, acceptable to the palate, cheap 
and harmless, is no easy question. Soups or broth 
once adopted as a part of two meals in the day, as is 
so frequently seen in Europe, and the problem is half 
solved; indeed some of the drinks here given are really 
thin vegetable soups or porridges to which the flavor 
of salt or of sugar may be given according to taste. 

It may be concluded, after comparing 
authors on the subject, that although 
coflee somewhat retards digestion and acts as a stimu- 
lant to the nervous system, still one or even two cujis 
of moderately strong coffee a day will not harm a 
healthy person. We may say, therefore, that its use 
to this extent is a question of expense only. 

Java and Mocha coffee in equal parts are considered 
the best mixture. Eio is much cheaper, and of strong, 
pure flavor. The amount to be used for moderately 
strong coflee is 1 tablespoon ( ground) to a en p. 

Chicory is considered here only as an adulterant, 
whereas in Europe a very little of it, say ^ teaspoon of 

133 



Kaffce unb OII^cc. ^3^ 

mal;lenen taffeeS juv Jpebiuuj beg @efd)mac!e§ ueviDenbet 
nnvb. 

3imad;ft md) bcr Oualitat be§ JtaffeeS ift dou 33ebeu= 
tiiug, ba^ ev frifc^ gcmaljlen unb gebraunt ift. 2Benu 
®u t{)n gebraunt faufft, eoDarme U}n roieber, ef)e ®u iljit 
mal)l}t. ®ie Icid^tefte unb jpav|amfte aBeife ber jlaffee. 
33ereitung ift, iljii evft fel}r fcin 3U ma(;len unb iljn bamt 
in einen@ncf :)ou gcioobenem 3cug ju fd)iitten, woju eine 
roeifee ©trumptfptt^e Ijinreic^t; la69^aum genug ^um5luf= 
fdjraetlen. evn)avme biefen in 2)einem £af|cctopf fo 
^ei§ ®u fannft, £)f;ne il)n gu cerbrennen. ©ie^e !od)en= 
be§ SBaffer barnuf unb ^Ite 15—20 9J^inuten ^eiB unb 
gut ^ugebcdt. 

J^od}enber J^affee roirb ftdrfer, er^alt aber !einen beffcs 
ren @efd)inad. 

5(ae (Sd)ri[tfteaer finb ilber bie (Sd)ablid)!eit ftarfen 
^^^- ^l;ee§, roenn er im Uebermag gcnoffenioirb, einig. 

@ih ®ir bei ber 35ereitung bc§ 3:I;ee§ red)t^ TC^e. 
^^evraenbe einen irbenen ^Ijeetopf unb IjalH 4)ir einen 
^^eeraarmer ober etn gvoBeS g-lanneltud; ^um (F;inl}iitlen. 

®a§ ju Denuenbenbe SSaffev fotlte nid;t gu Ijaxt unb 
nic^t 3U tueid) fein, fo ba^ e3 ba§ ^Iroma, nid)t aber 
ben gufammenjieljenben ©efc^mad ^erau§§ie^t; in ^l)ina 
oerraenbet man g-lu^raaffer. Mu^ man ^rte§ Staffer 
oerraenben, fo beben!e man, ha% ba§ ©ieben feine ^drte 
noc^ cermel^rt unb 'i)a^ man e§ Derroenben mu§, fobalb 
e§ ben ©iebepunft evreid^t Ijat. 

dlimm einen ^r^eeloffcIuDa auf eine ^^eetaffe; t!)ue i(}n in 
ben ^r^eetopf unb erradrme il;n in einem 23adofen, hi§ er 
^eife ift, giej^eeine ^afje SSaffer, "iia^ eben in'^ j?oc^en ge= 
fommen ift, bariiber unb bede mit bem 3:f)eett}drmer ^u. 
:2affe il}n fiinf 9}^inuten ftefjen, fiitte bann mit ber erfor^ 
berlidien Ouantitdt ^eigen SSafferg unb tifd^e i^n unoer^ 
jiiglidj auf. 

eacao mi S^o= ®'f)'^ ^eibc cntfiaUeu em gut Z^til 

colabe. JJotiruiig uni) wevben ols ©etvante fur 



134 Coffee and Tea. 

the prepared chicory to a cup of ground coffee, is 
used to improve the flavor. 

Next to the quality of the coffee, it is of importance 
that it should be freshly ground and browned. If 
you buy it browned, reheat it first before grinding. 
The easiest and most economical way of making is to 
grind it very fine and put into a bag made of woven 
stuff, a white stocking top will do ; leave room to 
swell. Heat this in your coffee pot as hot as you can 
without burning. Pour on boiling water and keep it 
hot and close-covered for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Boiling coffee increases its strength, but does not 

improve its flavor. 

All authors a^ree as to the harmful- 
Tea 

ness of strong tea, taken to excess. 

Take great pains in making tea. Use an earthen 
teapot, and have a tea cozy or a large flannel cloth to 
wrap it in. 

The water used should be between hard and soft, 
extracting the aroma but not the astringency; in 
China river water is used. If hard water must be 
used, remember that boiling increases its hardness 
and that it should be used as soon as it reaches the 
boiling point. 

Take 1 teaspoonf ul of tea to a cup, put it in the teapot 
and heat in an oven till hot, pour on 1 cup of water 
that has just come to a boil, and cover with the tea 
cozy. Let it stand 5 minutes, then fill up with the 
requisite quantity of hot water and serve immediately. 
Cocoa and choco- These both contain a good deal of 
late. nourishment, and as drinks are con- 

sidered rather heavy. As the various -kinds differ 



<Sru^cfd?ictm. tSS 

ettt)a§ \d)wcv gel^alten. ^a hie »evfd;iebenen ©orten feljr 
Don etnanber abroeid^en, bereitet man fie am beften nad) 
hen auf hen ^adeten bcftnblidjen 5(ntt)ei[ungen. 

rUmhxk'^%Uz" ^^^^ ^^""' ^"6er fiir ^inber, 

faum al§ ©etranfe betrac^tetmerben, 
ttber mit I;ei§em Staffer rerbiinnt unb mtt ^uder Berfii^t 
J)at man tfjn fd)on „(5;ambrtc;X^ee" fiir bie £inber ges 
taitft, unb er ift aui^ fein fc^lec^teg ©etranfe fiir Relieve 
al§ fie. 

(55riifeefd)Ieim. ®^" ^^""^^ @ru^efd)leim, lei^t cer. 

fiigt, i|t dn gute§ @etranfe. 

$aferfd,leim. ..3" fL^^A'^ ,/l'*'."^'"..^1f'f 

^ ' ' ^ ru^re 2 epoffelooll ^afergrii^e; foc^e 

eine ©tuuDe ober noc^ longer, giege burc^ dn grobeg 

(Bkh ober einen (Setter, gib eine ^riefe ©alj unb etrva^ 

3ndermild) ^u. 

^ptsfrfileim }^^nd)U einen ©feloffel ^teiSme^ in 

jteisicQieim. emaS falter aj^ilc^ an, giefee ein Ouart 

!od;enbeg 2Bafjer ^u, falje leid)t unb fod)e, hi§ e§ burd^i 
fc^einenb mirb. SSiirje mit etma§ ©itronenfc^ale unb 
3uder. 

^ .;. ., ^ ., . 1 Ot. fo^enbeS 2Baffer, 3 mVoU 

^ ^ feluoU illcat§mel)l, oo§ tn oerfc^iebes 

nen SSaffern abgefpiilt morben, ^ 3:fjeeBffel ©al^; gib 
i Xa\\c Mild) unb etroaS 3wder ^u; dnc ^riefe ^ngn^^t 
trdgt 3ur ^ebung ^d, 

@erftet,i*eim. ^^ff ^^'t' »^« Sefd)rotene 

' ' ^ @erfte bie gan3e ytac^t ober em paar 

©tunben in faltem 2Baffer ein, bringe fie in foc^enbeg 

Staffer unb !od)e fie gan^ roeic^. SBiirje wic bie anberen. 

©ago= unb Xapioca* ^ann auf biefelbe 2Beife bcvdtct 
©djleim. merben. 

Sllle biefe ©etrdnfe miiffen bitnn unb nic^t ^u ftarf ge= 
UJiir^t fein. 

" rote fi'affee, fo ftavt ®u (onnft, o^ne i^it 



135 GrueXs, 

yery much from each other, they are best prepared 
according to the recipes found on the packages. 

Milk, except for children, can hardly 

be looked upon as a drink, but diluted 

with hot water, and sweetened, it has already been 

christened for the children as ^'cambric tea," and it 

is no bad drink for their elders. 

A very thin gruel, slightly sweetened, 

(jrruels. . _ _ . - 

is a good drink. 
Oatmeal gruel. Into a qt. of boiling water stir 2 table- 
spoons oatmeal ; boil for an hour or longer, strain 
through a coarse sieve or a cullender, add a pinch of 
salt, and a little milk and sugar. 

Wet 1 tablespoon rice flour in a little 

Rice firruGl. 

cold milk, put into 1 qt. boiling water, 
salt slightly and boil till transparent. Flavor with a 
little lemon peel and sugar. 

1 qt. boiling water, 3 tablespoons 

Cornmeal gruel. , it- 

corn meal washed m several waters, -J 
teaspoon salt ; add \ cup milk and a little sugar ; — a 
pinch of ginger is an improvement. 

Soak pearl or ground barley all ni^ht 

Barley gruel jt o j o 

or a few hours in cold water, put into 
boiling water and cook till very soft. Season like the 
others. 

s^^« ^/rue^h ""'^"^ Can be made in the same way. 

All these drinks must be thin and not too highly 
seasoned. 

Brown common field corn as you 

Corn coffee i i ^ i -j.! j. 

would conee, as brown as you can without 
burning. Grind coarsely and steep like coffee. Add 
milk and sugar, and you will find it a delicious drink. 



$ommcr=(Sctranfc. 1(36 

gu cerbrennen. Mal)U it)n grob unb la[[e i()n ^ieljen rate 
ilaffee, @i6 9Jiild) unb ^udex 511 unb !iu rairft etn bes 
(tciofcs ©etrdnfe finben. 
^altt ©etranfe im Simonabe tft t)on 3U ftavfer ©dure 

Sommer. fiiv ein regelmdgigeg ©etrduf bet 

Tlal)li^citen, Die (5'itrone ift jebod) a[§ SBiirjmittel ftetS 
raiUfommeu. 
Simonabe t)on t^lanb= 2Ba[rf)e etne^anboolt i^ldnbifc^eg 

ijc^emaJioog- 9)^00^ iu 5 3Saffern ah, gie^e 2 

Otg. fod;enbeg gaffer bariibev unh laffe e§ ftel^en, biS e§ 
fait ift. ©eil;e eg uub gib nod; mef;r SBaffer ^u, roenn 
e§ uot^raenbig i]t, tuie aud; ben @aft uon 2 (5;itronen, 
unb t)er|ii§e mit ©titd^uder, hen man an hen (Sttronen 
gevieben ^at, urn bag Del t)on ber (Sc^ale ^u er^alten. 

Soba-ereme ^ *^^- '^uder, 1 Un^e SSeinfteinfdnve in 

^spoDa-ureme. ^ ^^^ ^^.- ^^^ sygafferg aurgeloft. 3Senn e§ 

fait geraorben, untrue man mit (£itronen[(^a(en[aft ober 
(Srtraft unb gib dn jerflepperteg (Siraei^ ^u. 33eim ©es 
brand} gib 2 g-^(offe(uoll in ein @(a§ Staffer, in bem ein 
3Sievtelg;^^ee(iJffelr)olt @oba aufgeloft ift. 

WeI»S8a(fer. ®f>""\ [""« r^'^'^'' ^\ ^f^'?^'^ 
gaffer unb t)aite fte etne ©tunbe tang 

raarm. @ei^e burd) unb oerfii^e. 51[tle biefe @etrdn!e 

[c^meden mit @i§ abgefii()lt am beften (aber nid;t 3n fait. 

9lpfeI=5Betn. ©"fee^' ^rpfetmein faun jum ©ebraud^ 

auf gtafd^en ge^ogen roerben unb gibt ein 
be(icio|e§ ©etrdnfe. ©iebe il^n unb fc^dume ah, hiQ er 
flar ift, — nid)t Idnger; gie^e i^n t;ei§ in 't)k glafdjen unb 
oerfiegle 'ok^e. 

©ie!)e aud^ 35egetabilien= unb ^rud;t;@u|)pen. 



136 Summer Drinks, 

Cold drinks in Lemonade is too strongly acid for a 

Summer. regular drink at meals, but lemon as a 

flavor is always welcome. 

Irish moss lemon- Wash a handful of Irish moss in 5 
ade. waters, pour over it 2 qts. boiling water 

and let it stand till cold. Strain, adding more water 
if necessary and add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten 
with lump sugar which you have rubbed on the lemons 
to obtain the oil in the skin. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. tartaric acid dis- 
solved in a pt. of hot water. When 
cold flavor with lemon zest or extract, and add the 
beaten white of an egg. When used, add 2 table- 
spoons of it to a glass of water in which you have 
dissolved ^ teaspoon soda. 

Slice juicy sour apples into boiling 
pp e wa r. ^2iiQV and keep warm an hour. Strain 
and sweeten. All these drinks taste best cooled (but 
not too cold) with ice. 

Sweet cider can be bottled for use 

Cider 

and makes a delicious drink. Boil and 

skim till it is clear — no longer; pour hot into bottles, 

and seal. 

See also vegetable and fruit soups. 



^tt4jje fiitr ^vanh^. 



@§ ift t)erlf;dltni^md§{g Uid)t fiir ®eine gamilie mit 
etnem fd^malen (Stnfommen ^u leben, fo lange atle ^tnges 
l^ortgen berfelbeu fic^ gnter ©efunbljeit evfreuen, aKeirt 
^u rairft 2)eine ^ilf^mittel aUe ju fdrglic^ finben, raenn 
®u fiir ben 2(ppetit etne§ ^ranfeit ^roDiant ^u fc^affen 

5ruc^ tm beften gatte fteEt ^ranfljeit ftet§ ftarfe ^Infor^ 
berungen an ba§ befc^rdnfte (Jinfommen, l^ier jebod), rute 
in jeber anberen 3lbt^ething Reiner Strbeit, tDtrft ®ufins 
ben, ha^ gefunbev 3!}ien[d^ent)erftanb unb @en{e 3)ir ba§ 
©elb erfe^en fonnen. 

SSd^renb eine^ fd;raeren UebeIBeftnben§ ftel^t hk '>Ra'i)Xi 
ung ebenforaoljl, luic bie SDZebicin unter 5Iuffid;t be§ ^Irjs 
teg, raenn abcr bic ©efal^r tJorilber tft unb er "S^id) b[o§ 
mit aitgemeinen ^(nraeifungen oerlaffen Ijat, fo rcirft ®u 
mef;r al§ lual^rfrfieiniid) in ®einer ^erlcgenl^cit hen diai'i) 
ivgenb ciner ^^ad^barin annef;men, hie l^ereingcfd^neit 
fommt, obfdjDn®ui3ie(Ieid)traei§t, bag raeber i^r Urt()eil§5 
t)ermt)gen noc^ iljre (grfal;rung fo gut finb, raie 3)etne 
etgenen. 

dlun ilberlege ®ir erft, rva§ ber ®oftor gemeint !^at, 
al§ er 3)ir fagte, ber patient miiffe „fjerau§gefiittert" 
raerben, unb rcie feine jcrftbrte ^-igur raieber %dt unb 
Mu^tdn juriiderljalten fann, Vic in ber £ran!I)eit abges 
brannt finb? 35or alien ®ingen, loie ^ai mei^i, burc^ 
3Serbauung ber ^tal^rung, ber ^roteinforper, ber incite 
unb £o]^(enI;r)brnte, iiber bie wix gefprodien (jaben, fo^ 
bann aber auc^ nod) buri^ etroa^ 3Inbere§, ein rcirflid^eg, 
raenn auc^ oft oergeffeneS ^fJal^rungSmittel, ben (BaucVi 
ftoff ber Ihift. 

SSir fjaben gefagt, ha\^ wix un§ um biefe§ 9?a^rung§5 
mittel feine ©orge ju niac^en brauc^en unb bag eS felbft fiir 
fidj forge; unb bie^ toirb e§ tf)un, raennrcirun^ in einem 
@efunblf)eit§3uftanbe befinben unb ein Seben fiil;ren, toie 

^37 



COOKEEY FOR THE SICK 



It is comparatively easy for your family to live on a 
small income while all its members are in good health, 
but you will find your resources all too slender when 
you must cater for the appetite of an invalid. 

At best, sickness is always a severe drain on the 
limited income, but here, as in every other depart- 
ment of your work, you will find tliat good sense and 
ingenuity will often stand you in stead for money. 

During a severe illness the food as much as the 

o 

medicine is under the care of the physician, but when 
the danger is over and he has left you with only gen- 
eral directions, you will be more than likely in 
your bewilderment to take the advice of the first 
neighbor that drops in, although you may know that 
neither her judgment nor experience is as good as 
your own. 

Now consider first, what did the doctor mean by 
saying that the patient must be " built up," and how 
is the wasted frame to get back the fat and muscle 
that were burned away in the sickness? Chiefly, as 
you know, by the digestion of food, the proteids and 
fats and carbohydrates that we have been talking 
about, and still another, a real food although so often 
forgotten, the oxygen of the air. 

We have said that we need not concern ourselves 
about this food, that it would take care of itself; and 
so it will when we are in a state of health and living 
12 137 



Kiidje fiir Kranfe. ^58 

eg menfcljltdjcn SSefcit ^ufommt, bcnii luo wix geljen 
unb fteljen, nafjvt uiig bie l^uft, oljite ba§ wiv e§ 
ratffen. ®te @ad)e Dcvljiilt fidj jebod) gan^ anberS M 
eiiicin avmcit Scibcnbcn, ber im Jlranfen^tmmer einge; 
fd;lo[|cn ift; tljin muffcn rair mtt ebcnfo grDJ^er ©orgfatt 
unb ^Jtegclmdfjigfeit fvifd;e 2u\t fd;aften, i:)ie [etne @elee§ 
unb il'vaftBrii^cn. 

333enn rcir crniagen, xvomit nnr unfercn kronen [peifcn 
foUen, fo ronnen iDtrnic^tg 33effeveg t^un, alg ung an un= 
fere alte gtaffiftcation ju Ijalten, bie ^^^rotcfnforper, gctte 
unb i?'oI)ren^i)brate. (?r ntnf^ aEe biefc ©vnnblagen nuv in 
ber am letc^teften ^u ncrbauenben ^onn Ijaben, benn [cin 
ajlagen i]t \d)wa&), voic ^cin ilBriger itorpcr. 3Iu§ biefem 
©runbc muffen iijm bie ^roteinforper Dor^;;ng§= 
raetfe au§ bcm 3:i;ierreid; ^ugefiiljrt \ul)xt tnerben, 
33utter ober dialjm muffen bag ^ett liefern, unb 
hie 5tol^lenl)pbrate muffen mogHdjft menig uon bem 3ell; 
ftoff mit fid; bringen unb fo gefodjt merben, ha^ \k ^id) 
leidjt Derbauen. 

©rftli^, hk ^roteinforper betreffenb. J^ei^e mild), 
6fter§ in Heinen Ouantitdten gegeben, mirb in 'Den erften 
©tufen ber 2Biebergenefung vid gebraudjt unb ift atlge^ 
meiner beliebt, al§ mit ber 33eiga6e uon einem ©tiirfc^en 
gerofteten 33robe§ ober in ber 55erarbeitung 3U einem 
biinnen ©c^teim. 

3n ber erffen 9f^et§e fommt ouc§ ©uppe au§ moge^ 
rem, feingefc^abtem 9f^inbf(eif(^, ))a§ mit faltem 2Baffer 
iibergoffen unb bann eine ©tunbe (ang fte(;en getaffen, 
fobann langfam ^ur 33riiP;i^e ermdrmt unb eine fur^e 
3eitlang babei ge^alten mirb; e§ mirb fobann burd^ dn 
grobeS ©ieb gefeif;t, mobei man bie fleinen, braunen 
gloden mit burdilaufen lix^t. SBiirje Uo§ mit ©alj. 
Ober rofte ein hide§, mei(^e§ (Bteat, ^erfc^neibe eg in 
(BiMc, preffe bann mit einem ^^itronen^erbritder jebeg 
33igd;en ©aft aug, raorauf er Derbiinnt unb getoiirgt mer; 
ben !ann. 

Jpammerf(eifd)brii(;e mirb raie D^inbfleifc^fuppe gemac^t, 



13B Cookery for the Sick. 

as human beings should, for as we walk or work we 
are fed by the air without knowing it. But the case 
is quite different with a poor invalid shut up in a sick 
room, we must bring the fresh air to him with as 
much care and regularity as we do his jellies and broths. 

When we are considering what we shall feed our 
invalid, we cannot do better than keep to our old 
classification of Proteids, Fats, and Carbohydrates. 
He must have all these principles but in the most 
digestible form, for the stomach is feeble like the rest 
of the body. For this reason the proteids must be 
furnished mainly from the animal kingdom, butter 
and cream must supply the fat, and the carbohy- 
drates must bring with them as little as possible of 
the tough cellulose, and they must be so cooked as 
to be easily digested. 

First, as to the Proteids. 

Hot milk, given often in small quantities, is much 
used in the early stages of recovery and is generally 
better liked if accompanied by a bit of toasted bread 
or made into a thin gruel. 

In the first rank, also, comes soup made of lean 
beef scraped fine, covered with cold water and allowed 
to stand for an hour, then brought slowly to scalding 
heat and kept there for a short time; it is then 
strained through a coarse sieve, the small brown 
flakes being allowed to pass. Season only with salt. 
Or, broil a thick, tender steak, cut it in pieces, and 
then with a lemon squeezer press out every particle 
of juice, it may then be diluted and seasoned. 

Mutton broth is made like beef soup but should be 
cooked a longer time. Chicken broth also requires 
more cooking. 



Kiicf^c fur Kran!c. 139 

[otite ahcv (dngeve ^eit tod)cn. ^ud) §ii()nerfup|)e braudjt 
Idngereg j?:oc^en. 

3n irgenb einer biefer ©uppcn fawn etraag did^ ober 
^opioca ge!od)t roerben. 

(Sier finb etn wtcfitiger Soften in bcr Jtranfenbidt, ba 
fie fe^r natji-ljoft unb frifc^ Uid)t oerbaultc^ [tub; be^ 
nu^e fie gar nic^t, raenn 3)u i^reg Sllterg nic§t fic^er btft. 

(gter ]fann man ro^ geben ([. (S. 58) ober rcetd; gefod^t 
(f. ®. 59) ober in l^eigem 2Ba[fer etngefc^lagen. @in (gi 
fann auf wtele Derfd^iebene SSetfen aufgetifdjt raerben unb 
gtbt ftet§ dn ^iibfd^eS, anjie^enbeS @erid;t. 33eim 
^od)en follte man e§ jebod^ nie einer ^u ^oljen 3:emperatur 
unterraerfen, xvdl bie§ ha^ 3Sei§e ^ornig unb unoerbau= 
lid) mad^t. 

©in (Sierral}m au§ einem @i unb einer ^affe TOlc^ 
nebft einem ^alben (Sfeli)ffel ^udex fann hd ber 2Sieber= 
genefung S^itig gegeben merben. Ober oerraenbe auc§ 
9fiinbf(ei[d)fuppe ober ^iir)nerbrii^e ftatt ber 3D^iIc^ unb 
roiir^e mit etmaS ©alj unb ^feffer. ®ie[e @ierral)me 
[odten in einem S3led)tDp[, ber in einen ^effel fodienben 
2Ba[fer§ gefe^t rairb, bereitet merben, ruobet man ben 
©ierra^m umriil^rt, bi§ er "oid ju merben beginnt. 

3undd)ft in ber Dieil^e f ommt ge!od)te§ glei[c§. 9tinb; 
fleifd) ift am atlerbeften, atiein e§ mu^ faftig unb ^art 
fein, unb man mug e§ roften ober braten unb l;alb ro^ 
aufti[(^en. @in geriifteteg .gammelfdjnittc^en !ommt 
ciedeic^t ^unad)ft, obfc^on einem ^ul}n megen feineS 
belifaten @efd)madf oft bcr QSorjug gegeben roirb. (^in 
^ranfer follte ©c^raeinefleifc^ nid)t anrii^ren, unb ^albs 
ober Sammfteifd) nur in ber gorm oon (Suppe er^alten. 

3Sa§ gette betrifft, fo bebarf i^rer bcr ^orper felbft-. 
Derftdnblid^, fetter gteifc^ aber follte nic^t gegeben mer:: 
ben, blog 33utter, ober no^ beffer, Df^a^m. SDie 33utter 
barf nie ^erlaffen unb in bie ©peife aufgefogen, and) nic^t 
in cine ©auce oerroanbelt merben. 

SBag ben pflan3nd)en ^^eit ber 9^a^rung betrifft, fo 



139 Cookery for the Sick. 

Any of these soups may have a little rice or tapioca 
cooked with them. 

Eggs are an important item in the diet of an inva- 
lid, being very nutritious and, if fresh, easily diges- 
ted; do not use them at all if uncertain of their age. 

Eggs may be given raw ( see page 58 ) or soft-boiled 
(see page 59 ) or ^Doached in hot water. An egg may 
be served in many ways and makes always a pretty 
and attractive dish. In cooking, it should never be 
submitted to a high temperature, as that makes the 
white part horny and indigestible. 

A custard made from an egg and a cup of milk and 
a half table spoon of sugar may be given early in a 
convalescence. Or use beef soup or chicken broth 
instead of the milk, and flavor with a little salt and 
pepper. These custards should be made in a pail set 
in a kettle of boiling water, the custard being stirred 
till it begins to thicken. 

Next in order, comes cooked meat. Beef is best 
of all, but let it be juicy and tender and broil or roast 
it, serving it rare. Probably a broiled mutton chop 
ranks next, although chicken, because of its delicate 
flavor will often receive the first choice. An invalid 
should not touch pork, and should be given veal or 
lamb only in the form of soup. 

As to fats, the system needs them of course, but 
fat meat should not be given, only butter or better 
still, cream. The butter must never be melted and 
soaked into the food, nor made into a sauce. 

As to the vegetable part of the diet, much care 
must be used. In the form of gruel or porridge, it 
is generally very welcome and gives the fluid part of 



Kiid?e fiir KranFe. \q^o 

mu^ ^voge ©orgfa^t baraiif Derraenbet trerben. ^n hex 
gorm t)on ©d^feim ober 9Jle!^I|uppe ift er allgemein rottls 
fommen unb giOt ben flit|[igen ^^eti; ber ^JJZafjljett in 
guter ^-orm. iBetreffg 2Bel[d;forn; unb .l^afermel^lfuppe 
[{el)e @. 122. SSJii^ fann bte ©teEe beg ^Bafferg Der^ 
treten. 

@eroftete§ 93rob totrb mit gutem ©runbe al§ ^ranfen^ 
fpeife betrac^tet, benn ber 9fioftproce§ uerroanbelt ha^ 
(2tar!me^l be§ 33robe§ ^um X^cil in ^ertrin, ba§ [el^r 
(eic^t cerbnut xvixh, 2(u^ ©etreibearten fomien gebrdunt 
ober geroftet roerben. 9tei§ rofte rote £affee; !orf)e rate ges 
roo^iilii^ unb t§ mtt ehnaS 9taf;m. ^ebenfe, bag ©rob 
^nm Otoften biinn gefdjnttten unb erft in fur^er (gnts 
fernung Dom geuer ettoaS auSgetrocfnet, bann nii^er ges 
hxad)t unb gcljrdunt roerben mug. ®u tannft eg bann 
algtrocfenen 2:oaft, (eid;t mtt S3utter Beftrtd^en, aufttfc^en, 
ober auger ber 33utter unb ctroa^ @al^ (jetgeg SSaffer ober 
Tlii6) unmtttel6ar Dor hem 3lnri(^ten barauf giegen. 

^anaba uon geroftetem (Sd^mar^^Brob, SSeigBrob ober 
(Jracferg mtrb berettet, inbem man in etner ©djiiffel hie 
©tilde aufeinanber fd)idjtet, nac^bem fie mit ©at^ ober 
3uder iiberftreut roorben [inb, bann ilBergiegt mon fie 
mit t)inreid)enb foc^enbem 3[8a[[er, um fie tiii^tig ein3u= 
meidien. @ie fodte eine ©tunbe ober nod^ Idnger I;eig 
ge^alten merben, morauf mon hie ©tiide forgfdttig auf 
eine l^eige Untertaffe l^erau§l)eBt unb mit etxva^ dia^m 
unb oietteidjt noc£) eirna^ ©alj ober ^udex anric^tet. 
2}lu§!atnug fann ^ugegeBen merben. 

^u^ Df^cig ift ein feljr xvexilpoUe^ S^a^runggmittel gum 
©ebraud) in J?ranf()eitg[aIIen, ha ex and) hex fd^mdd^lid)^ 
ften ^erbauung§[dt;ig!eit feine 3umutl;ungcn ftedt. 

^D^acaronig merben teid^t oetbout unb finb oon l^o^em 
9^d^rroert^. ©ie follten in Ijeigem ©algmaffer gejotten 
merben, big fie meid) finb, rooranf man fie mit etwa^ 
^Butter ober S^al^m anrid^tet. Ober fann man fie einex 
©ierral^m gugeben unb leid)t Baden. 



140 Coohery for the Sick. 

the meal in a good form. For Indian meal and oat- 
meal porridge see page 122. Milk may take the place 
of the water. 

Toast is with good reason considered invalids' food, 
for the process of toasting turns part of the starch of 
the bread into dextrine which is digested with great 
ease. Grains may be also browned or roasted. Roast 
rice as you would coffee, cook as usual and eat with 
a little cream. Remember that bread for toast must 
be cut thin and first dried out at a little distance from 
the fire, then brought nearer and browned. You may 
then serve it as dry toast lightly buttered, or in addi- 
tion to the butter and a little salt, pour hot water or 
milk on it just before serving. 

Panada of toasted brown bread, white bread or 
crackers, is made by piling the pieces in a bowl, hav- 
ing sprinkled either salt or sugar over, and then pour- 
ing over enough boiling water to soak them well. It 
should be kejit hot for an hour or more, the pieces then 
lifted out carefully on a hot saucer and served with a 
little cream and perhaps more salt or sugar. Nutmeg 
may be added. 

Rice is also a very valuable food for use in sickness, 
as it does not tax the most delicate digestion. 

Macaroni is easily digested and of high food value. 
It should be boiled in salted hot water till tender and 
served with a little batter or cream. Or it may be 
added to a custard and lightly baked. 

Barley, thoroughly cooked, is good food for an in- 
valid. Oatmeal must be used with caution until the 
digestion becomes stronger. 

As to vegetables proper, a mealy baked potatoe is 



Kiid^c fiir "KranFc. [^\ 

©erfte, griinbltd^ ge^'oc^t, ift eine gute D^al^rung fiir 
einen £ranfcn. ^aferme^l nui^ mit ^orfid)t benu^t 
raerben, big bte 35erbaiiung ftarfer rairb. 

^a§ eigentltd^e 35egetabilien betrifft, fo tft eine ge^ 
bacfene, me(;Hge ^avtoffel oieUeic^t ha^ erfte, ba§ in ben 
©peifejettel aufgenommen roerbeu barf; entferne bag 
^nnere, ^erbriirfe fie fein uitb raiiv^e fie mit etn)a§ (Sal^ 
unb 9cal;m. .giite 3)td) uor ^artoffeht, bie auf trgenbs 
roelc^e anbere 2Beife get'od;t finb. 

Obftfaft tann ^eitig a(g ©efdimacfg^ugabe 311 @e; 
tranfen beniil^t raerben: ber breiige ^f;ei( mu^ jeboc^ ent; 
fernt iDcrbcn. (^in gebratener 5(pfel ift fiir ben 5lnfang 
bag ©idjerfte, raenn bie ^cit jur (Sinfiit^rung uon g-riic^; 
Un ill cine fold^e ®idt getommen ift. 

SSag ha^ 5fnrid}ten betrifft, fo benu^e ^orjeHan, <BiU 
hex unb Seinraanb non ber beften @orte, hie ®u im ^au^ 
^a\t, unb lag eg an auggefudjter ©auberfeit nie fe^Ien. 

33ebenfe, ha^ Ueberrafc^ungen einem tranfen fe^r an; 
gene^m finb; lajj il)n nie ben ©peife^ettel Doraug raiffen, 
unh luenn i)n mx rao^lbefannteg ©eric^t uerfjiillt auf; 
tiidjm fannft, fo ift eg urn fo beffer. ^ev^^la^cnc^ (§:u 
toeig ift eine gute gee unb leiftet !4)ir bidige ®ienfte. 
(Sc^nceroeig ober im 33adofen gu einem ©olbbraun ge; 
mad)t fann eg bie Obenfeite con mand;em ©eric^te hiU 
ben, mobei eg bag eine Mai hen (^icxxaljm oerljiidt, bag 
anbere SQhil geformteg .^ii^nergelee ober fogar eine Xaffe 
belitateg ^Ipfelmug. 

®ag 35erfa(;ren beim £od)en, fie^t dn £ranfer, raenn 
eg einfad^ ift, gern mit an, unb ber 5lnbtid fd)arft oft 
feinen 5Ippetitt. 33ring il^m feinen 9[Re()IfdjIeim in ber 
gorm eineg 33reig unb Derbiinne i()n uor feinen 5lugen 
mit 33^ild) ober dla^m, hade fein (5i feic^t in einer (Stein; 
gutfd)uffel, iudf)renb er einen anberen @ang oer^eljrt, unb 
bereite Dor aUen ^ingen feinen X^ee neben feinem 33ette. 



24 



141 Coohery for the Sick, 

perhaps the first to be introduced into the bill of fare; 
remove the inside, mash fine and season with a little 
salt and cream. Beware of potatoes cooked in any 
other way. 

The juice of fruits may be used early as a flavor in 
drinks, but the pulp must be discarded. A baked 
apple is safest to begin with, when the time comes to 
introduce fruit as such into the diet- 
As to the serving, use the best china, silver and 
linen that you have in the house and let exquisite 
neatness never fail. 

Eemember that surprises are delightful to a sick 
person; never let the bill of fare be known before 
hand, and if you can disguise a well known dish, so 
much the better. Beaten white of egg is a good fairy 
and serves you cheaply. Snowy white or made golden 
brown in the oven, it may top many a dish, conceal- 
ing at one time a custard, at another a mold of chicken 
jelly or even a cup of delicate apple sauce. 

The processes of cooking, if simple, an invalid loves 
to watch and the sight is often a whet to the appetite. 
Bring his gruel to him in the form of mush and thin 
it before his eyes with milk or cream, coddle his egg 
in a stone ware bowl while he eats another course, 
and by all means make his tea at the bed-side. 



golgcnbe ©peifefarten finb fiir eittc gamiltc tJon 6 
^erfonen, hie au§ einem 3lrbett§mann, ^raet grauenjim= 
merit unb bret ^inbern tm filter ^raifd^en 6 — 15 3a!)ren 
befte^t, roobei bie ©roge ber gamilie unb bie erretd)ten 
5((tev§ftufen alg bem ®urd)fc^n{tt ]^tnretd)enb na^e be^ 
trac^tet roerben. 

®ie Ouantitcit ber 9ZaC;rung unb bie ^roportionen, in 
raetc^en hk grogen 9ZaIjrung§grunblagen reprdfentirt finb, 
finb anncifjernb ba§, wa^ »on ben fte^enben ^idtregeln 
fiir eim [olc^e gamilie uertangt roirb. giir ben SD^ann ber 
gamitie ^ben rcir, rcie bereit§ bemerft, hie Don ^rof. 
^troater fiir einen 5(merifaner Don ^urd)[c^nitt§alter bei 
Ijarter ^anbarbeit Dorgefc^lagene gerod^lt, fiir bie grauen 
unb Jlinber bie Don ^rof. Jf^onig Dorge[d)(agenen. 
Slngenommene ®i^ »o" i^nen reprdfentirtenOuantts 

Sidtregeln. tdten finb: 

^roteinforper. ^^dte. ^o^Ien^^brate. 
mann 125 @rin. 125 @rm. 400 @rm. 

2 grauen (jebe) 96 " 48 " 400 '' 

3 .^inber Don 6 — 15 ^6 " 44 " 320 " 

(jebeS) 

^otalfiimine 545 @rm. 353 @rm. 2210 @rm. 

Ober inUnjen au§ge; 

briicft 19.19 Unj. 12.42Un5. 78.03 Unj. 

^ti 33ere(^nung biefer Ouantitdten finb rair faft doUs 
ftdnbig hen von $rof. ^onig ^ufammengetragenen, ana? 
Iptifc^en ^abciien gefolgt. 

gleifc^ iDirb oljne j^nod^en unb mdgig feU in hk ^e- 
rec^nung gebrad)t, unb in beinatje aOen i^peifefarten 
iiberfteigt bie Ouantitdt ber ^roteinforper hie Don hen 
angenommenen ^idtregeln oerlangte ^iiireid)enb, fo ha^ 
iDir biefen 55ertuft ertragen fonnen. i)a^Mef)i ift oon 
9}Zittel=Oualitdt, @ier raerben oI)ne bie ©c^alen beredjnet 
unb Wild) mit einem (Semi<^t Don 34.4 Unjen perOuart. 



BILLS OF FAEE. 



The following bills of fare are made out for a 
family of six persons, consisting of a working man, 
two women, and three children between the ages of 
six and fifteen, the size of the family and the ages 
attained being considered sufficiently near the average. 

The amount of food and the proportions in which 
the great food princijDles are represented approximate 
to what is demanded by standard dietaries for such a 
family. For the man of the family we have taken, as 
has been said, the one proposed by Professor Atwater 
for an American at average manual labor, for the 
women and children those proposed by Prof. Konig. 
The amounts represented by them 

Dietary adopted. 

are i 

Proteids. Fats. Cart.ohy- 

Man _ . 125 gms. 125 gms. 400 gms. 

2 women (each) 96 '' 48 '' 400 '' 

3 children, 6 to 15 yrs. ^g ^^ 44 cc 320 «< 

(each) 

Sum total is - . - 545 gms. 353 gms. 2210 gms. 

Or translated into oz 19.19 oz. 12.42 oz. 78.03 oz. 

In calculating these amounts we have followed 
almost entirely the analytical tables compiled by Prof. 
Konig. 

Meat is reckoned without bone and moderately 
fat, and in nearly all the bills of fare the amount of 

143 



Spcifefartcn. ^3 

2Ba§ bie ^rei[e betrtfft, [o ftnb e§ Ijauptfad^lici^ bte 
Don bctt iBaltimorcr 3J^dr!ten, in eintgeit gdUen naS) ben 
D^ett) 2}orfer Dcrbeffert. (5ier tcerben ju 18 (5;entg im 
griil^jaljr, ^u 25 (jentg im ^erBft unb Winter bevedjitet; 
in 33itd)[en fonferuirte ^riid;te [inb ju ben fiir Oh]t im 
©ommer ^ejoljlten ^reifen angegeBen. ^ie jtoften ber 
9^oljmaterialien finb in ailen ^-dSen genannt, n)o6ei33rDb 
na4 bem ^rei§ be§ in il;m entf^attenen 3}^eI;Ie§ £ered)net 
rairb. 

3n brei t)er[d)iebenen ^a'^xe^^eiten finb t)ier aufetnan? 
berfolgenbe 3^age anSgeradl^lt, bie al§ biejenigen, weldje 
bie .f)iiii§^ alter in auf bie Ijdxtqte ^robe ftellen, betrac^tet 
raerben — @am§tag, ©onntag, 9D?ontag unb ^ien^tag, 
unb hic§ gibt @elegenf)eit, gn ^eigen, wic hie ©peifen 
3um 33ornu§ geplant unb gefod;t raerben follcn. @§ rairb 
Beabfidjtigt, ha^ am ©amstag, fo raeit eg moglid; ift, hie 
©peifen fiir hen ©onntag gefodjt raerben, racit bie Witi 
tagSmaljljeit am ©onntag eine gnte fein, babei aber an 
biefem ^lage mi3glid;ft racnig 3(rbeit t)erurfad;en fotlte; hie 
SDIittagSmal^ljeit am 9}^ontag [oUte eine fold)e fein, hie 
auf bent l^interen 3:^ei(e be§ Ofen§ unb im 33ac!ofen ^exi 
gefteUt merben fann. 

S)ie D^te^epte roerben einiger ^tbroec^Slung unterraorfen 
merben miiffen, bcm an gceigneter ©tede gegebenen diatf) 
iihex ©parfamfeit entfpredjenb, 3. 33. bnrd; ©ubftituirung 
con D^inbSfett ftatt gutter, ober burd) Si'O'^^^ berfelBen, 
rao abgeraljmte 9}tifd) ^tatt roUftdnbigcr bcnut^t mirb. 

(Jg rairb ferner bcabfidjtigt, ha^ an jebem ^age ein 
fleiner UeBerfd)u^ an @elb gum 5(nifauf Don ©eroiirgen 
unb ©efc^madsjugaben bleiben foil. 

©tnleitung ju ben ©eifejetteltu, 
1. graffe. 

3n ber adgemeincn (Sinleitung Ijat hie ^erfafferin ein 
paar ©runbjdt^e angegeben, hie ung hei hex 9(ugn)a^l un= 
[erer 9ta(;rung leiten follten. SBir l^ahen gelernt, ha^ 



143 Bills of Fare. 

proteids enough exceeds that required by the dietary 
adopted so that we can afford this loss. Flour is of 
medium quality, eggs are reckoned without shell, and 
milk as weighing 34.4 oz. per qt. 

As to prices, they are mainly those of Baltimore 
markets, corrected in some cases by those of New York. 
Eggs are reckoned as costing in the spring 18 cts., 
in Fall and Winter 25 cts., canned fruit is put down 
at the price paid for the fruit in Summer. The cost 
of raw material is given in all cases, bread being 
reckoned at the cost of the flour contained in it. 

In three different seasons, four days in succession 
are selected, these days being the ones considered most 
trying to the housekeeper — Saturday, Sunday, Monday 
and Tuesday, and this gives an opportunity to show 
how the food should be planned and cooked ahead. 
It is intended that on Saturday the food for Sunday 
should be cooked as nearly as possible, as the Sunday 
dinner should be a good one but requiring a minimum 
of labor on that day; the dinner on Monday should 
be such as can be cooked on the back of the stove and 
in the oven. 

The recipes will have to be varied a little according 
to advice given in appropriate places as to economy, 
e. g,, substituting beef fat for butter, or adding it 
when skim milk is used instead of whole milk. 

It is intended that each day there shall be a small 
surplus of money for purchasing seasonings and 
flavors. 

INTKODUCTION TO BILLS OF FARE, CLASS I. 

(To the Mother of the Family.) 
In the general introduction the writer has stated a 



(Einlcitungs^Jbreffe. ^4<|. 

wix, menu rvix ung hei guter @e[unbl;e{t unb SlrBettSfraft 
cxl)altm ruotten, eine beftimmte Ouantitot von bemfjaben 
miiffcn, roog un6 am beften burd) g-letf^, @ier, 3[}Zild; 
unb anbere t(;{cri[d)e (Jr^cugniffe geliefevt rairb, unb ba§ 
wiv [crncr ebenforaol;! gctte I;a5en miiffen, rate ha^, niag 
un§ in ©etrciDeartcn unb ©emiifen geBoten rvixh. 

9^un abcr Ijat uiifere 5(ufgal6e erft begonnen, benn roir 
miiffcn bicfe ^Zaljvungggrunblagen in ©eftalt gefodjter 
©eridjte liefern, ik brcimol be§ 3:age§ auf ben ^amilieus 
tifd^ !ommen foUen, unb bie ©erii^te mitffen nid}t blog 
naljvfjaft fcin, fonbern and; gut fd)meden, unb Xaq \nx 
^ng mu|^ un§ 5(bnicd}§(ung gcnug geBotcn merben; enb; 
li6) aber — unb bie§ ift ber arierf^mterigfte ^unft — mitf; 
fen mil* Dcrfudjcn, bic^ mit ber ©umme yon 13 © e n t g 
per X a g f ii r j e b e ^ e r f o n f ertig ^u bringen. 

^d) mcrbe mir nun uorfteUcn, ha^ id) gu einer ^au§; 
mutter fpvcd;e, meldje fed;§ SJMuler ^u fiittern l^at, unb 
nid;t me^r @clb ba^u befit^t. 3Sie(Icid;t l^at bicfe gran 
nie genaue 9^ecf)nungen gefiil;rt unb mcig nicf)t ob fiemc^r 
ober mcnigcr a[§ biefe ©umme auSgibt. ©el;r mal;r; 
fdjeinlicf) l)at fie il)re ,,(Spenbir"= unb if;re „arnien" 3:age 
je nac^ hen t)erfd;icbencn 33etrdgen ber gamilieneinnQf;= 
men, unb e§ mag dn Zxoft fiir fie fein, ^u miffen, ha^ fie, 
menu fie bicfe S^age einttjeilcn unb etma§ ptanmdgiger 
beljanbcln fann, im ©tanbe ift, iljre gamitie gan^ l^iibfd^ 
mit biefcr ©umme 3U erndljren. 

©inige Zl)at\ad)en ixhex ha§, raa§ ber (Srfaljrung ber 
3Serfafferin gemd^, in bicfer ^ejieljung fd;on gefd)el;en 
ift, merben ni(^t iibel angcbradjt fein. ^c^ fannte eine 
gamilie Don 6 ^crfoncn aug einer ber 33erufgtlaffcn, gur 
.gdtfte (5rraad)fene unb gur ^dlfte ^inber, meid)e ein 
3a^r (ang ju eincm ®u-rd;fc^nitt6pret§ Don 11 ©cntS per 
^evfon Icbtcn, unb con uiemanb murbe hetjanptd, ha\i fie 
nidjt gut gcnug tcbten; fie Ijattcn ungcfdfjr rier Don ben 
fieben 3:agcn ^^deifd), auf bem 3(benbtifd; ftanb ftctS dn 
^udjen, unh fie genoffen reidjHd; ^hft. 
,gier ift dn !4)urd)fd;nitt^i®peife5cttcl. griifjftitd — Wild), 



144 Introductory Letter. 

few principles that should guide us in choosing our 
food. We have learned that to keep us in good health 
and working order we ought to have a certain amount 
of what is best furnished by meat, eggs, milk and 
other animal products, and that we must also have 
fats as well as what is given us in grains and vegetables. 

But now our work has only just begun for we are to 
furnish these food principles in the shape of cooked 
dishes to be put on the family table three times a day, 
and the dishes must not only be nourishing but they 
must taste good, and there must be plenty of variety 
from day to day; and last — and this is the hardest 
point of all — we are to try to do this for the sum of 
13 cents per person daily. 

I am going to consider myself as talking to the 
mother of a family who has six mouths to feed, and 
no more money than this to do it with. Perhaps this 
woman has never kept accurate accounts and does not 
know whether she spends more or less than this sum. 
She very likely has her *^ flush " days and her "poor " 
days according to the varying amounts of the family 
earnings, and it may be a comfort to her to know that 
if she could average these days and plan a little bet- 
ter, she can feed her family nicely on this sum. 

A few facts as to what the writer knows to have been 
done in this line will not be amiss. I knew a family 
of 6 belonging to one of the professional classes, half, 
grown people, and half, children, that lived for a 
year on an average of 11 cents per person daily, and 
no one would have said that they did not live well 
enough; they had meat about four days out of the 
seven, there was always cake on their supper table, 
and they used plenty of fruit. 



(£inlcttun96=21'bre{f.e. 1^5 

gerofteteS 33rob, gebratene ^artoffeln, £a[fee; SD^ktagefs 
jen — @uppe ron 3^inb§[d)en!ei;, gebacfene^^eber, Of^eig unb 
jt'oitoffeln; 2(6enbe[fen — 33utterbrDb, in gett gebacfener 
33ret, gebampfte 33irnen unb ^uc^en. ^m m6)\tcn ^ag 
rcurbe gepre^teS S^inbfleifc^ au§ bem ^erljadften unb ge-. 
TOurjten ©uppenfleifc^ gemadf)t, unb am ^age barauf 
gab e§ l^iibfc^ gebratenen, Mlligen gi[c§. ®a§ JPjaupt ber 
.gau^^altnng wax tixu ge[d}i(fte SSirt^fc^afterin, 6etm 
ko(i)cn raurben abfolut fetne ge^Ier gemad)t unb nic^t etn 
©tiirfd^en ging uerloven; fie l^atte eine lange Sifte ein= 
fad^er ©eridjte ^ur 35er[iigung unb mad^te 5(6raec^§lung 
3U iljrent fpe^iellen ©tubium. „S^ gebe felbft ein Sieb^ 
Ung§gerid)t SSo^en lang auf," fagte fie, "raeun irgenb 
jemanb eg miibe ift. " 3^ fii^re bieg alg ^ro6e von bem 
an, xva§ ic§ von einer l[)od)ft refpeftabteu gamilie in einer 
fleinen ©tabt in einem unfever oftlid)en ©taaten tl;un 
fa^. 

@g mug l^ier erraa^nt merben, ha^ ber ^rei§, ju rocU 
d^em biefe gamilie Sequent lebte, nic^t \o niebrig l^dtte 
fein fonnen, mie er rairflic^ mar, menn fie nid;t ein 
grogeg ^ilfgmittel geljabt j[)dtte; fie l^atte ein ©drtc^en, 
bag il;r @riineg unb einige griic^te lie[erte. 33eina^e 
jebe gamilie ^at tnbeffen irgenb einen fpejiellen 35ort§eil, 
ber i^re Soften etmag erniebrigt; hk eine fauft gutter 
unb griic^te mit Q3ort^eil Don greunben auf bem Sanbe, 
eine anbere fann im @rogen einfaufen, menn mandl)e 
©tapelartifet am Billigften finb, mieber anbere fonnen fi(^ 
einigeg ©epgel l^alten u]m. (gg fonnten ^a^lrei^eSSeis 
fpiele bafiir angefii^rt merben, raeld^e bemeifen, ha^ hie 
D^a^rung fiir eine gamilie in roljem guftanbe fiir t)ic 
©umme pro ^er[on, fiir bie mir fie ju !anfen unterne^; 
men, befd)afft merben fann, unb 'Ha^ mit @efd)idflid)feit 
im £od)en, SSiir^en unb ber ©erod^rung riditiger 516; 
med^glung, eine gefunbe, rec^t annel^mbare ^idt bamit ^u 
liefern ift, obfd^on fie natiirlid^ feine ;guiugartiM entl^als 
tm !ann. 



145 Litrodiidory Letter. 

Here is an average bill of fare. Breakfast — milk 
toast, fried potatoes, coffee; dinner — soup made of 
shank of beef, fried liver, rice and potatoes; supper 
— bread and butter fried mush, stewed pears and 
cake. Next day there was pressed beef made from 
the soup meat chopped and flavored, and next day 
there was cheap fish nicely fried. The head of this 
household was a skillful economist, absolutely no mis- 
takes were made in cooking, and not a scrap was 
wasted, she had a long list of simple dishes at her 
command and she especially studied variety. ''^I 
abandon even a favorite dish for weeks," she said, 
*'if any one tires of it." I give this as a sample of 
what I know to have been done by a highly respect- 
able family in a city of small size in one of our east- 
ern states. 

It must be mentioned that the price on which this 
family lived in comfort could not have been as low as 
it was but for one great help; they had a small gar- 
den that furnished green vegetables and a little fruit. 
But then almost every family has some special advan- 
tage that would lower the rate somewhat ; one buys 
butter or fruit advantageously of friends in the coun- 
try, another can buy at wholesale when certain staples 
are cheapest, still another may be able to keep a few 
fowls, and so on. Numerous instances could be 
brought to prove that the food for a family can be pur- 
chased in a raw condition for the sum per head for 
which we have undertaken to buy it, and that by skill 
in cooking, flavoring and giving right variety, a health- 
ful and very acceptable diet can be furnished, though 
it cannot, of course, contain luxuries. 

la 



iTotl^wenbtgc gctt un& (Semtl^c. ^6 

SSertn id) ferncr Don einer %xan fpred;e, xvddje bte 
D^al^rung einer g-amilie fiir 13 6^ent§ per ^opf taglid^ 
Uefern foil, [o Ijahe id) hahti bie ^rau eine§ SOZanneS int 
©inn, ber biej'e ©nrnine fetbft xierbient, tt)df;renb bie grau 
ifjre Dotle ^cit jnr SSartnng ifjreg ^an^ljaltc^ iinb xfjxtv 
Jlinber ^nr 33erfiigung l)at, 2Bcnn eine gvau rerbienen 
l)il\t, TDie in ber gabrif, unb bn§ 9J?ei[te ron t^rer 
^an^arbcit cerridjten mu^, toenn fie D^^ad)!^ !§eimfommt, 
fo mng fie fid;erlic^ mcljr @elb ^ahen a(g im erfteren 
gaUe, um biefelben D^cfuttate ^u erjielen, benn fie mng 
tl^r ©rob fd)on gebaden faufen xtnb fann btoS bie ©es 
rid^te fod^en, raeldje am raenigften ^eit beanfprudjen. 

^c^ fe^e t)orau§, ha^ ®u bie ^iid^engeratlje lf;aft, 't)ie 
auf ©eite 20 befd^riebcn finb; racnn nid)t, !aufe fie, benn 
S)u fannft nidjt oljne fie fertig iDcrben. S^ie ©peife ift 
im 33erg(eid) mit 3^opfen unb $fannen fef}r foftfpielig; 
S)u barfft feine ©peife DerberBen laffen, voeil e§ bir an 
ben ridjtigen ®ingen jum ^od;en fel^lt. 

^d) Derlange Don bir ^nm 35orau§ Blo§, ha^ ^u bte 
^^ejepte, hie id) 3)ir gebe, probiren unb ^eine 3]orurs 
tfjeite gegen ©eric^te, an bie ®n nidjt gerooljnt bift, n)ie 
g. 33. ©uppcn unb ^nfegeridjte, bcifeite legft. 3)u fannft 
®ir nid)t erjauben, irgenb etionS gu reiraerfen, ha§ Slbs 
raedjSlnng in 3)eine SebenSraeife bringt, benn ciele guts 
fc^medenbe (Bad)en fannft ®u i)ir nidjt faufen. 

3*^ weig, e§ ift fiir eine cielbefdjiiftigte grau fc^mer, 
auf if;r Jlod)en etioag mel;r ^dt gu cenuenben, a(g „ge5 
rabe ange(;t", aber wcnn ®u ^ir gur ^teget madjft, iit 
S^ac^t oorljer beveit§ ^u bcftimmen, wa§ 5)u am folgens 
ben 3:age fodjen raiUft, fo rcirft ®u ^u biefem D^efultate 
gelangen, toie einfad) auc§ ®eine ©pcifen fein miigen; 
mit hen ®ir ^ur S^erfiigung fteljenben SO^ateriatien toirft 
2)u Reiner gamilie ciel beffere ©peifen Dorfet^en !i)nnen, 
unb man rairb ®ic^ eine gute ^i)c^in nennen unb hi^^n^ 
\id)t befommen, ha^ feine gamilie beffer ^u leben brauc^e, 
u)ie fie; unb bicfer (Sinbrud^ wirb befonberS burc^ iic. 



146 Time and Utensils Required, 

Another thing, when I speak of a woman who is to 
buy the food of a family for 13 cents apiece daily, 
I have in mind the wife of a man who earns this sum 
himself, the wife having her time to attend to the 
housework and children. If a woman helps earn, as 
in a factory, doing most of her housework after she 
comes home at night, she must certainly have more 
money than in the first case in order to accomplish 
the same result, for she must buy her bread already 
baked and can only cook those dishes that take the 
least time. 

I shall take for granted that you have the kitchen 
utensils described on page 20; if not, buy them, be- 
cause, you cannot afford to do without them. Food 
is very expensive compared with pots and pans ; you 
must not spoil food for lack of the right things to 
cook it in. 

I only ask you in advance to try the recipes I shall 
give and to try to lay aside your prejudices against 
dishes to which you are not accustomed, as soups and 
cheese dishes for instance. You cannot afford to 
reject anything that will vary your diet, for many 
good tasting things you cannot buy. 

I know it is hard for a busy woman to give to her 
cooking a bit more time than will ** just do,'' but if 
you make it a rule to determine the night beforehand 
just what you will cook on the following day, no mat- 
ter how simple the food may be, you will gain this 
result ; with the materials at your disposal you will 
put before your family much better food, and they 
will call you a good cook and think that no family 
need live better than they; and this impression will be 



(Etnfaufcn con ^^Ictfc^. t^? 

rtc^tige ^(braedjSlung, hie S)u bringft, ^eroorgerufen tt)cr= 
ben. 2a^t un§ t)ou 3(nfang an feftfteden, ba^ e§ gevabe 
jc^t 3)eine 9Iufgabe im :2e6en ift, iiber biefe 9^a^rung§i 
frage, foiceit fie 3)etne gamilie berii^rt, .gerr gu raerben. 
©erabe iDie bev ©efc^aft^mann belt Waxtt heoha(^tcn unb 
\\6) einen l^alben gent am ^funb con einem 2trtifel ^u; 
nul^e madden mng, urn erfolgreid^ mit feinem ST^ac^bar 
foufuvriren ju fonnen, fo mugt 3)n an^ ber .god^roac^t 
fein, urn jeben moglid;en 35ortl^eil ju benu^en. ®ie§ ift 
ein jlampf, in raelc^em gnergie unb ^eredinung [e^r viel 
auSric^ten, unb ®u rotrft an jebem ^unft, ben ®u ges 
rainnft, tiic^tige greube ^ben* 

^etm ginfaufen Don gletfc^ fannft ®u raeniger an ber 
Ouantitat, al§ an ber Oualitdt fparen. 35erfuc^e, hie 
oerfd^iebenen %l)ciU von einem ^l^ier fennen unb ^toifd^en 
bem gteifc^ won einem fetten Od)[en unb bent oon einem 
mageren unterfd^eiben ^u lernen, benn raie rair bereitS ers 
flaxt l^aben, ent^It ha§ erftere raeniger 9Bo[[er, unb 
raarum follteft ®u "^dn guteg @elb fiir etrao^ beja^Ien, 
tt)a§ hit dlatnx 2)ir umfonft gibt? ^m 3Sinter cevfud^e 
gkifd^ im 3Sorau§ 3U faufen, fo ha^ 3)u e§ burd^ 
5Iufben)a^ren gart madden fannft, unb ^u xvixft 
bann auc^ n)al;rnel)men, ha^ je grower ha^ 
gefaufte ©tiicf, befto !(einer ber ^rojentfa^ 
Snoc^en ift, hen ^u mitbel^ommft. S)er £nod)enpro5 
^entja^ im ganjen 3:^iere betrcigt, mie hei einem Oc^fen 
ber gad, nid)t mel^r al§ 10 — 11 ^ro^ent; ber ^ciufer 
eine§ fleinen @tiidfe§ gleifd) aber erfjdlt oft graeimal 
biefe proportion. 3Sie mir raieber^olt in biefen ©eiten 
bemerft ^ahen, ent^lten hie bidigen ober gal^eren Z^eile 
ebenfo viel D^al^rung fiir '^id), wie hex 9?ippenbraten, ber 
SDeine ^orfe iiberfteigt. SSa^Ie l^ciufig ba§ fette 3J?ittel=: 
rippenftiidf au§ unb fod^e e§ lang unb langfam; faufe ha^ 
D^adfen? unb ^aU\tM vom .giammet unb bdmpfe e§ ^u 
@emii[e; faufe einen ^atbSfopf unb fiel^, roag fiir eine 
feine ©uppe S)u baraug madien fannft. ^erfdjoffe ®ir 



147 Buying of Meat. 

made principally from your having the right variety. 
Let us understand, to begin with, that it is your 
business in life just now to conquer this food question 
as it affects your family. Just as the business man 
must watch the market and take advantage of a half 
cent a pound on an article, that he may successfully 
compete with his neighbor, so you must be on the 
alert to use every possible advantage. It is a struggle 
in which energy and calculation will tell for a great 
deal, and you will have solid enjoyment in every point 
that you gain. 

In buying meat your saving cannot be so much in 
quantity as in quality. Try to learn the different parts 
of an animal, and to distinguish between meat from a 
fat ox and that from a lean one, for, as we have explain- 
ed, the former has less water in it, and why should you 
pay good money for that which nature gives you free ? 
In winter, try to buy meat ahead so that you can 
make it tender by keeping it, and you will notice, too, 
that the larger the piece you buy the smaller is the 
per cent of bone you get with it. The per cent of 
bone in the whole animal, as in the case of an ox, is 
not more than 10 or 11 per cent, but the buyer of a 
small piece of meat often gets twice that proportion. 
As we have said again and again in these pages, the 
low-priced or tougher parts have as much nutriment 
for you as the rib roast which is beyond your purse. 
Choose often the fat middle rib and cook it long 
and slowly ; buy the neck and scrag of mutton, and 
make a stew with vegetables : buy half a calf's head, 
and see what a fine soup you can make of it. Have 
beefs liver now and then, and tripe, rather than put 



Korncrfriidjte unb (Scmiifc. \^8 

Iteber l)icv uitb ha Df^inb^leber unb Salbaunen, aU ha^ 
®u ®eiit @elb auf SBurft uon ^raeifell;a[ter Ouatitdt 
oerraenbeft. Unter alien Umftdnben !aufe g-i[(^ menu er 
bttlig tft, JlaulBorfc^ g. 33. ber gebraten au^ge^eidjiiet ift. 
Jjalte ftet§ ^J^ievenfett im 35orrat^ unb oerraenbe e§ ftatt 
gutter, rate 6erett§ ^Inraeifung gegeben raurbe. 

^^icmnnb braud^t ®ir gu fagen, raie raevti^DDll eingefal; 
^ene^ unb gerdud^erteg @d)raeineflei[c^ fiir S)t(^ ift, — 
bie einjtge ©efaljr bakn ift, ha^ 3)u juuicl baoon uer; 
bvaudjft. 

^Beint 5ln!auf von (Siern mu^t 3)u SDid; Dom ^vcife 
leiten laffen; im SSintev gebraudje fo racnig, raie moglid^, 
unb [elBft im g-riiljjaljr, raenn fie ant Mlligften finb, he- 
benfe, ha^ fie nid)t fo biCfig finb, raie glei[^[d)nitte fetter 
^§iere vom mehxi^ftcn ^reife. 2Benn fie aber BloS 15 
Stents ha§ S)ut^enb !often, fo fannft ®u raoljl in 2tnBe= 
trac^t il;re§ ^oljen 2Bertl)e§ jur 33efd;affung con 316:= 
raedj^lung jebe fleine ^ergleid)ung ber 9tdl;rraertl;e au^er 
Sldjt laffen; ®u fannft ®ir bann erlauben, fie l;ier unb 
ha anftatt gleifc^ unb ^ur Sereitung oerfdjicbener ^iex^ 
fpcifcn 3U cerraenben. 

Ueber hm SSert!^ be§ ^dfe'g alg regelmdgige ©peife an 
©telle Don gleifc^ fannft S)u in einem anberen 3^l;eile 
biefer 5lbl;anblung lefen. J^aufe raenigftenS einmal bie 
SKoc^e bie ral;mlofe (Sortc, raenn ®ir ®eine 9}^ittel !eine 
anbere erlauben, unb reibe ober !od;e iljn nad^ ben gege^ 
benen Df^e^epten. 

35erfuc^e, einen ^uoerldffigen SQZilc^l^dnbler auSfinbig ^u 
mad)en unb !aufe abgera^mte SOcild) gum l^alBen ^reife 
ber ooClftdnbigen; cerraenbe fie gu alien ^odj^raeden unb 
l^alte oollftdnbige SO^ilc^ unb raenn moglic^ etmaS dlalpn 
jum £affee. 

33etra(^ten rair nun ben pflanglidicn ^l;eil unfercr ^iat. 

., ®u muj^t ®ir jebe Slrt von 20Zel;l unb ^iirner? 

' friic^ten, bie nid;t ju !oftfpielig ift, im 35Drratlj 

Ijatlen; fci banlbar bafiir, ha^ ^Beijenmeljl fo gut unb fo 



148 Grains and Vegetables. 

your money into sausage of doubtful quality. By all 
means buy fish when it is cheap, catfish, for instance, 
which are excellent fried. Keep suet always on hand 
and use instead of butter, as has been directed. 

No one need tell you how valuable salt pork and 
bacon are for you, — the only danger is that you will 
use too much of them. 

In buying eggs, you must be governed by the 
price; in winter use as few as possible, and even in 
the spring when they are cheapest, remember that 
they are not as cheap as the lowest priced cuts of 
meat from fat animals. But when they cost only 
15 cents a dozen you can well disregard any small 
comparison of nutritive values, in consideration of 
their high worth in furnishing variety; you can 
afford to use them now and then in the place of meat 
and in making the various egg dishes. 

Of the value of cheese as a regular dish to take the 
place of meat, you can read in another part of this 
essay. Buy it once a week at least, the skim variety, 
if you cannot afford the others, and grate or cook it 
according to the recipes given. 

Try to find a reliable milkman and buy skim milk 
at half the price of full, and use it for all cooking pur- 
poses, keeping full milk, and, if possible, a little of 
the cream, for coffee. 

Now let us take the vegetable part of your diet. 
You must keep on hand every kind of 
flour and grain that is not too expen- 
sive ; be thankful that wheat flour is so good and so 
cheap, it will be your best friend. If you are not 
already skillful in using it in bread and other doughs, 



<Sca)ur3e. ^9 

BtKig {ft, e§ mxh ®etn befter ^reunb fein. 2Benn ®u 
nid)t [c^ou ©efc^idflic^feit in feiuer 35ern)enbung gu Srob 
unb anberen 3:etg[pei[en l^aft, rairft X)n ®eine 9Jlatertalien 
rerberben unb erft ^-e^ler madden, adein e§ Bleibt S)ir 
itid^tS ^^lnbere§ iibrig a[§ 3D^eifter{n in biefer 5lBtl§eiIung 
ber J^od^funft ^u rcerben. ^Serroenbe ^rob retc^Hc^ ^u 
alien 33rDbgeric|ten, lerne jebe§ bevfelBen bereiten. ®u 
mugt 33uc^n)e{3en ju J^udjen uerraenben, 9f^ei§ ^u ^ubbin= 
gen, @erfte in ©uppen, ^afevgrul^e nnb Mai^mdjl ^u 
^reten unb ®u mu^t fie alTe in mogltd;ft nielerlet 2Sei[en 
gebraudjcn lernen. ^te £6rnerf riidjte finb f iir un§ biEtgere 
©petfen al§ hie ©emiife, oB[d;on geborrte (Srbfen, 33ol§= 
nen unb Sinfen gan^ 't>id)t l^intev tl;nen fommen. ©elbft 
hie ^'artoffel, bte man unfer SieblingS-QSegetabtl nennen 
!ann, tft foftfpieltger al§ SSet^enme^l, menn xvix Uo§ Dom 
'>!fla'i)xrr)extl) [pred^en. 

3)ie S^o^e hex ©atfon auggenommen, l^abe nid)t§ mit 
griinen ©emiljen ju fdjaffen, roenigftenS nic^t mit bem 
©inbrud, ha^ fie bidig feien; menu 3)u fie faufft, fei ®ir 
Berougt, ha^ ®u eljer fiir 2Bol;lge[d)mad nnb 5Ibn)ec^§; 
lung be^a^lft, al§ fiir 9^a^rung. ©elbft gu 5lnfang be§ 
^riif;Iing§ aber !aufe veic^lic^ Segetabilien wie ^mieheln, 
ge(6e ^ii6en, ^eterfilie unb anbere griine il'rduter ^u 
5)einen @uppen unb (Saucen. SSenn $)u einen (Bpa^iex^ 
gang auf'§ Sanb mad^ft cergig nidjt 2)liin3e unb ©auers 
rampfer in t)er 3:afd)e mit^eimjuBringen; bie erftere giBt 
3)ir etne !^ii6[cl§e gteifd^fauce, hie let^tere cinen foftBaren 
®e[d^madf fiir SDeine ©uppe. @§ mirb ®ir gan^ leid^t 
fein, in einer genfterfifte jene§ beliciofe ^raut, bie peters 
filie, ^u jie^en unb fie ftetg frifc^ ^u l^aBen. 

giir eine fc^mak 33orfe giBt e§ hin grogere§ ^itf§= 
mittel, al§ hie i^'enntnig ber @efc^mod§jugaben. SSenn 
rair un§ erinnern, ha^ wix non ^rob, ©ofjnen, ©rbfen 
unb etraaS BiHigem gleifc^ unb gett ba§ gan^e Qal^r iiber le; 
ben fonnen, menu mir fie B(o§ „^inunter Befommen" Bn; 
nen, fo foUten xvix un§ ber 53ebeutung fold^er ^ut'i)aten 5ur 



I'iQ Flavorings. 

you will waste your materials and make mistakes at 
first, but there is nothing for you but to become mis- 
tress of this department of cookery. Use bread freely 
in all the bread dishes, learn how to make every one. 
You will use buckwheat for cakes, rice for puddings, 
barley in soups, oatmeal and cornmeal for mushes, and 
you must learn to use them all in as many ways as possi- 
ble. The grains are cheaper foods for us than yegeta- 
bles, although dried 23eas, beans and lentils follow hard 
upon them. Even the potato, which may be called 
our favorite vegetable, is more expensive than wheat 
flour, if we are talking only of food values. 

Except in the height of their season, have noth- 
ing to do with green vegetables, at least not under 
the impression that they are cheap; if you buy them, 
know that you are paying for flavors and variety, 
rather than for food. But even in the early spring, 
buy plenty of such vegetables as onions, carrots, pars- 
ley and other green herbs for your soups and stews. 
When you go for a walk in the country, be sure to 
bring home mint and sorrel in your pocket ; the for- 
mer will make you a nice meat sauce, the latter a 
delightful flavor in soup. It will be perfectly easy 
for you to grow in a window box that delicious herb, 
parsley, and have it always fresh. 

For a low purse, there is no heli3 so great as a 
knowledge of flavorings. When we remember that 
we can live on bread, beans, peas and a little cheap 
meat and fat the year round if we can only make it 
'^go down," we shall realize the imj)ortance of such 
additions as rouse the appetite; there is room here for 
all your skill and all your invention. Always make a 



^peifefartcn. \tO 

dtci^nn^ be§ 5I|)petttt§ BetDugt rocrben; l^ter gt6t e§ ©elfe^ 
gen^eit fiir ^eine gart^e ©efc^tdflic^tett unb 3)einen gait; 
jen @rftnbimg§geift. Wadje eiii billigeS aber nal;r^afte§ 
@erid)t ftet§ oon eiutabenbem 5teu§erem. ®ie§ beein- 
flugt befonber§ hen 3lppetitt ber £inber, raeld^en ein gan^ 
etufadjer iluc^en foftlicf) fdjmedft, raenn er 16lo§ oBen einige 
Df^oftneit ober etroa^ ^^^c!^^ auftoeift. 

^ie ©peifejettet nitf ©cite 146 — 158, Bei raelc^eit 18 
(^ent§ bte Soften ber ^tal^rung fiir eiite ^omirie Don \ed)^ 
^erfonen fiir einen Xaq becfen, unb hie D^aljrungSqualitdt 
forgfditig abgeraogen unb abgefdjdt^t ift, foUen ®ir 16fo§ 
anbeuten, rate in ein paar gdllen ®eine 9^ol;rung§frage 
geloft raerben fann. ®u fannft oI;ne S^eifel ®etn @elb 
auf 5(rt unb 2Beifen au§gekn, hie bent ©efc^macf 3)einer 
gamilie beffer ^ufagen, atlein tc^ hitte "^ii), ®etne 2eih' 
fpeifen auf§ iRene ju priifen, utn gu fel^en, oh fie fo nal^r; 
^aft finb, wie fie nad; t^rein ^reife fein foUten. S3e; 
benfe, ha^ hie ^ortetn^C^'oIuiune, hie tft, nad) hex ®u am 
forgfditigften fe(;en mn^t, weil fie mit ben gro§ten iloften 
geliefert rairb, unb e§ iftoon grower 3Sici^tig!eit, ba§ fie 
nid^t unter hie von mix gegebenen 3iff^^*i^ l^erabgel^t. 
2Benn ®u 3. 33. am glcifd^ fpavft, um i^nc^en unb ^a^ 
ftetengebdd ^u faufen, fo leihet biefe (Jolumne fiir hie 
Jl'often ber anberen ^roei unb 3)etne gamilie tt)trb uid)t 
l^inreid^enb gendl;rt fein. 



150 Bills of Fare. 

cheap but nutritious dish inviting in appearance; es- 
pecially does this influence the appetites of children 
who are delighted with a very plain cake if only a few 
raisins or some sugar appear on the top. 

The Bills of Fare on pages 146 to 158, where 78 cents 
covers the cost of food for a family of 6 per day, and 
where the amount of food is carefully weighed and esti- 
mated, is meant only to suggest to you how in a few 
cases your food problem can be solved. You can, no 
doubt, spend the money in ways that will better suit 
the tastes of your family, but I beg you to exam- 
ine anew your favorite dishes to see if they are as 
nutritious as they should be for their price. Remem- 
ber that the Proteid column is the one that you must 
look to most carefully because it is furnished at the 
most expense, and it is very important that it should 
not fall below the figures I have given. If, for in- 
stance, you should economize in meat in order to buy 
cake and pastry, this column would suffer at the ex- 
pense of the other two and your family would be 
under nourished. 



SpetfesKartcn, Claffe I. ^5^ 



giir eine ^amilie con [ed^§ ^erfonen, ^urd^fd)nttt§= 
foften 78 ©entg per ^ag, ober 13 gent§ per ^erfon. 

©amStag, 90^at. 

ajle^r.^fannfudien 33rob=@uppe (©. 20). 

(©. 103) mtt 3u(f er;@t)rup, 9f^tTtD§t)alg, gebdmpft, 

^affee. D^ubeln (©. 90). 

©equoaener D^^eiS-.^ubbing (©. lOV). 

©ebrannte SJie^lf uppemit in ^ett geroftetem ^rob(®.121). 
^^oaft unb £afe (©eite 62, 9^r. 1). 

^roteinfarper. f^ette. f^^^^^^ ^^^'^ 

Un§. Unj. Ung. ©entg. 

i^fb. 9?eig 64 .08 6.12 4 

l^fb. 3uder 15.42 7 

f^ib. fetter ^Qje .... 3.00 3.48 .24 lU 

2 Clt^. abgera^mte mild) 2.12 .48 3.30 8 

2q5fb. 3)Ze^t 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

^ Bt. bottftdnbige mild) .58 .62 .83 3i 

2@ter 34 .32 .... 3 

2i ^fb. mnU'^^aU 8.40 2.20 .... 20 

1 5pfb. gfJierenfett 5.88 .... 3 

i^5fb.^affee 3% 

3i^fb. S3rob 3.36 .28 29.06 8i|,^ 

Xotat 22.28 13.82 77.85 n\ 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



151 Bills of Fare, Class L 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS L 



For family of six, average price 78 cents per day, or 13 cents 
per person. 

Saturday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Flour Pancakes, Bread Soup (p. 20). 

(p. 103) with Sugar Syrup. Beef neck Stew 

Coffee. Noodles (p. 90). 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Supper. 

Browned Flour Soup, with Fried Bread (p. 121). 
Toast and Cheese (page 62, No. 1). 

ProfPifl^ -Fa+Q Carbo- C!08t 

I'roteids. lats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

i^lb. Kiee 64 .08 6.13 4 

lib. Sugar.... .... 15.43 7 

M Ib.Fat Cheese 3.00 3.48 .34 IM 

3 qts. Skim Milk.... 3.13 .48 3.30 8 

31b. Flour 3.84 .48 33.88 6 

1^ qt. Whole Milk .58 .62 .83 3J^ 

2'Eggs 34 .33 .... 3 

33^ lbs. Beef neck 8.40 3.30 .... 30 

%lb. Suet 5.88 .... 3 

i^Ib. Coflfee .... — - 3f 

3^ lbs. Bread 3.36 .38 39.06 8^V 

Total ^ 13.83 77.85 77i 

Required 19.19 12.43 78.03 78 



5pcifc=Kartcn, dlaffe I. ][52 



(Sonntag, Wai. 
^vmma. JWittageffen. 

a?l{ld)=3:oaft ©efiiateg 9^inb§^er^ (©. 48). 

^'affee. ^artoffeln, gebampft 

mtt mild). 

@ebbrrte3I|)ferpaftete((S. 108). 

^Brob unb ^dfe. 

3[nai§5j^affee (©. 135.) 

5lt»etti)effcn. 

D^lubelsSuppe (com ^am§tag, (S. 91) 

©ebratener .§^^^"9- 

33rob. 

Ung. Un§. Ung. ©ent^. 

^ers eine§ fetten DtfiO . „. ^ .^ ^^ 

fen, 2 ^fb. toiegenbf •• ^'^^ ^'^^ •••• ^^ 

4^fb.S3rob 3.84 .32 33.22 e^L 

f^[b. ^ucfer 11.88 5 

1 at. abgera^mte aJtild^. . 1.06 .24 1.65 4 
i ^fb. gebaiTte Stepfel. . . .10 .... 4.50 6 

H^fb. a«e^I 2.88 .36 17.16 4i 

12gerdu^.^er{ng(l^[b.) 3.36 1.36 .... 10 

i ^^fb. S^ierenfett 9.23 .... 2 

2 $fb. ^artoffeln 64 .... 6.62 2i 

i^fb. ^Butter 3.33 .... 6i 

i^fb. ra^mlofer ^afe... 2.40 1.07 .40 4 

S^ee 2 

i^fb. ^affee 

1 at, bottttdnbigeajJild^.. 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 



q2| 



^otal 21.20 14.39 77.08 76 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



153 Bills of Fare, Class L 



Sunday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Stuffed Beef's Heart (p. 48). 

Coffee. Potatoes stewed 

with Milk. 
Dried Apple Pie (p. 108). 
Bread and Cheese. 
Corn Coffee (p. 135). 



Noodle Soup (from Saturday, p. 91). 

Broiled Herring. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. .Carbo^", Cost 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 
Heart of Fat Ox ) 

weighing 2 lbs. [ - ^.76 2.56 .... 10 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.22 9^^ 

Mlb. Sugar .... 11.88 5 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

1^ lb. Dried Apples - 10 .... 4.50 6 

li^lb.Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

12 Smoked Herring (1 pound). 3.36 1.36 .... 10 

141b. Suet 9.23 .... 2 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 .... 6.62 2^^ 

^Ib. Butter. 3.33 .... &4, 

1^ lb. Skim Cheese 2.40 1.07 40 4 

Tea — - -— 2 

i^lb. Coffee .-- — - 3f 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

Total 21.20 14.39 77.08 76 

Required 19.19 12.43 78.03 78 



Spetfc=Karten, (Ilaffe I. ^53 

montag,, mat 
^tUttmd. gwittageifew. 

^afergrii^ebret, mft (SiB[en=(Suppe (®. 117). 

Mil^ unb ^ndex. ^ammel\ieiid}, gebdmpf t (®. 52), 
Svob. ©efodjte Jtartoffeln. 

j^affee. ©rob. 

5Brob=^fanntud§en (©. 93.) 
©eraud^erteg ©d)it)einef((et[d;, gebraten. 



^roteinfor:per. 

Una. 

2@ier 34 

I ^fb. ^afergrii^e 1.74 

i W. ^'affee 

i^fb-^ucfer 

not. abQtxa^muWlM) 1.59 
f ^fb.gerciu^.Srfltuetnefl. .36 

4^fb. ^artoffeln 1.28 

4 ^fb. 33rob 3.84 

1 Ot. tioaftanbige ajaic^ 1.16 
3^fb. ^ammelfc^ultei-.. 8.16 
1 W.geborrte(£r6jen.. 3.68 
i^fb.9J?e^I 96 

STotal.. 23.11 

SBerlaiigt 19.19 

26 



^ette. 


t)t)hvatt. 


^rei§ 
in 


Una. 


Una. 


©entS. 


.32 




3 


.72 


7.80 


3f 







3% 


.... 


7.92 


3*' 


.36 


1.48 


6 


9.60 




9 




13.24 


5 


.32 


33.20 


^\ 


1.24 


1.66 


7 " 


2.88 





21 


.32 


8.32 


5 


.12 


5.72 


U 


15.88 


80.34 


ii:^ 


12.42 


78.03 


78 



153 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Monday, May. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush, with Pea Soup (p. 117). 

Milk and Sugar. Mutton Stew (p. 52). 

Bread. Boiled Potatoes. 

Coffee. Bread. 
Supper. 

Bread Pancakes (p. 93). 

Fried Bacon. 

Tea. 

Protpids VnU Carbo- Cost 

i-roteias. i^ats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

3Egg8 34 .32 .... 3 

54 lb. Oatmeal 1.74 .72 7.80 3% 

i^lb. Coffee .... .... 3f 

i^lb. Sugar .... 7.92 3)4 

11^ qts. Skim Milk 1.59 .36 1.48 6 

%lb. Bacon .36 9.60 .... 9 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 .... 13.24 5 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

Iqt. Whole Milk.... 1.16 1.24 1.66 7 

3 lbs. Shoulder of Mutton 8.16 2.88 .... 31 

lib. Peas, Dried.... 3.68 .32 8.32 5 

1^ lb. Flour 96 .12 5.72 1}4 

Total, 23.11 15.88 80.34 77.3 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Spetfc=Kartcn, dlaffe I. 15/^ 

SDtengtag, aJlat. 
SftftDftftcf. awittaaeffett. 

^afergrii^ebrei unb a}ltlc^. ^aulBarfd^, geBraten, 

^utterbeftrtc^ener^oaft. mit 2)^un5=®auce (©. '73). 
^affee. ©eroftete ^artoffeln. 

©rob. 

3lt»ettbcffeit. 

©efd^morter @rie§=g5ubbing (®. lOV). 

©efaljeneg ©c^roeinefletfc^, gebraten. 

©rob. 

^roteinfcir^er. ^tttz. 

Ung. Ung. 

1 ^fb. |)afergru^e 2.32 .96 

1 Gt. t)ofl[tanbige9Jaic^. 1.16 1.23 

1 Ot. abgera^mteS!}iiIrf).. 1.06 .24 

3i $f b . ^oulbar 1 c^ 7 .00 .20 

W^ih.&xk^ 2.50 

2 @ier 34 .32 

4i^fb. S3rob 4.32 .36 

^affee 

2 ^fb. ^artoffeln 64 

i ^fb. gejalgenc^ Bd^roe'u 

nefleifi^ 30 8.00 

i^fb. S3utter. 1.67 

i^fb. Butfer 

St)ee 

%otal 19.64 12.98 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



^o^Ien= 


^reig 


f)t)brate. 


in 


Una. 


(Tentg. 


10.40 


5 


1.65 


7 


1.65 


4 


.... 


m 


18.22 


u 


.... 


3 35 


37.36 


10 100 


.... 


3 2J5 


6.62 


2i 




71 


.... 


3^1 


3.96 


If 




2 


79.86 


74% 



154 Bills of Fare, Class L 



Tuesday, May. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush and Milk. Fried Catfish 

Buttered Toast. with Mint Sauce (p. 73). 

Coffee. Fried Potatoes. 

Bread. 

Supper. 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. 107). 

Broiled Salt Pork. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Protpids Fflts Carbo- Cost 

irToteias. J^ats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

lib. Oatmeal 2.32 -96 10.40 5 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1,65 4 

3J^ lbs. Catfish... 7.00 .20 .... 17i^ 

13^ lbs. Farina 2.50 ... 18.22 7^^ 

2eg-gs .34 .32 .... 3 

4i^lbs. Bread 4.32 .36 37.36 IQf^^ 

Coffee .... .... .... 3| 

2 lbs. Potatoes. .64 .... 6.62 2^^ 

%lb. Salt Pork .30 8.00 .... 7}^ 

^Ib. Butter .... 1.67 .... 3^^ 

Mlb. Sugar .... 3.96 1% 

Tea .... ... .... 2 

Total 19.64 12.98 79.86 74f 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



SpcifesKarten, Claffc I. ;i55 



©am^tag, September. 

©oba=23i^cuit. @r6fen[uppe (®. 117). 

@e6acfene£artoffelnmit Si'ift)- ©tera. 

gerlaffener ^utterfauce. 33roD. 

^acao* 

5l()ent>effen. 

9J^ai§6rei unb 9J^o(affe. 
33rDb mit geriebenem ^a[e. 

$rotei„(a.,e.. gettc. f;S *^"^ 

Unj. Uns. ling. ©entg. 

1 ^3fb. gebortc ©rbjen . . . 3.68 .32 8.32 5 
2$fb.|)amnteBJ)alg.... 5.44 1.92 .... 16 

3 ^fb. ^^artoffeln 96 .... 9.94 3f 

3^[b.$8rob 2.88 .24 24.90 6 9jio 

2 ^fb. 9JiaignicI)1 3.14 .90 19.50 6 

i^fb.Bucfer 3.96 If 

i ^^fb. fetter ^afe 1.00 1.56 .08 3f 

1 £lt.t)oa[tanbige2)aid).. 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

i^[b.S3utter 3.33 .... 6 3|,o 

li^fb.9JieI)1 2.88 .36 17.16 6f 

i ^^fb. 9^ierenfett 3.92 .... 2 

i^fb.ajiolaffe 2.48 2i 

©acaos(Sd)olen .... 2 

Sfjee 2 

Xotal 21.14 13.78 87.99 Hi 

SBerlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



155 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Saturday, September. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 
Soda Biscuit. Pea Soup (p. 117) 

Baked Potatoes with Irish Stew. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. Bread. 
Cocoa. 

Supper. 

Corn Mush and Molasses. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. hydrat^. 

oz. oz. oz. 

lib. Dried Peas 3.68 .33 8.32 

2 lbs. Scrag- of Mutton 5.44 1.92 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 .... 9.94 

31bs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 

2 lbs. Cornmeal 3.14 .90 19.50 

141b. Sugar -.- 3.96 

34 lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 1.56 .08 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 

^Ib. Buttei 3.33 

13^ lbs.. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 

141b. Suet - 3.93 

^ lb. Molasses — - 2.48 

Cocoa Shells — — 

Tea 

Total 2L14 13.78 87.99 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 

5 
16 

m 

6x7 
6 



7 

2 

2^ 

3 

3 

TlS 

78 



5petfc=Karten, (£Iaffc I. ^56 



©onntag, (SeDtember, 

^afergrii^e unb TOId^. ©evoftete D^inbSleber. 

33utterbrob. ©efottene Jlartoffeln unb 

gacao. gelbe 3tuben. 

mit gefd)morteu Sw'i^^^'^" 
((S.116). iBrob unb ^afe. 

ginfenfuppe mit in gett geroftetem 33iob (@. 118). 

©erdu^erter .^ering. 

SBrob. @erften[uppe (®. 122). 

$.„tei„ta.,e.. Sette. f^^t *if 

Una- Uns. Uttj. (lentS. 

li ^fb. 9litib§Iebcr 4.80 .96 .... 15 

3 ^fb. tartoffeln 96 .... 9.94 3f 

1 $fb. gelbe 9ftuben 1.44 li 

li^fb. |)afergi-u^e.... 3.48 1.44 15.60 U 

i^fb. Sinjen 2.04 .16 4.32 5 

liOt. boflftdnbigeajnic^ 1.74 1.85 2.48 lOi 

i^^fb-Buder 7.92 3i 

i ^tb. ^erlgerfte 44 .06 2.86 2 

im. 9f?ierenfett 3.92 .... 2 

4^fb.93rob 3.84 .32 33.22 91(5 

6geraucb.^enng(8Uns.) 1.68 .68 .... 5 

i'^tb. S3utter.. 3.33 .... 6i 

i^fb. fetter a^dfe 1.00 1.16 .... 3f 

6;acao-'(5c^alen •••' 2 

%ota{ 19.98 13.88 77.76 76 9[io 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



156 



Bills of Fare, Class I, 



Sunday, September. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal and Milk. Broiled Beef's Liver, 

Bread and Butter. Boiled Potatoes and Carrots 

Cocoa. with Fried Onions (p. 116). 

Bread and Cheese. 

Supper. 

Lentil Soup with Fried Bread (p. 118). 

Smoked Herring. 

Bread. Barley Porridge (p. 122) . 

Prntpirt^ "Rflt<? Carbo- Cost 

i-roteias. iats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

11^ lbs. Beef s Liver 4.80 .96 .... 15 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 ._.. 9.94 3% 

lib. Carrots .... 1.44 1}4 

11^ lbs. Oatmeal 3.48 1.44 15.60 7^ 

1^ lb. Lentils 2.04 .16 4.32 5 

11^ qt. Whole Milk 1.74 1.85 2.48 lOJ^ 

i^lb. Sugar .... 7.92 SJ^ 

^ lb. Pearl Barley.... .44 .06 2.86 2 

Mlb.Suet 3.92 .... 2 

41bs. Bread.. 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

6 Smoked Herring- ( 8 oz. ) 1.68 .68 .... 5 

Mlb. Butter 3.33 .... 6*4 

M lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 1.16 .... 3% 

Cocoa Shells .... .... 2 

Total 19.98 13.88 77.76 7&tg 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Spcifc^Kartcn, dlaffe I. \57 



3[Rt»ntag, September. 
^tuWud. awittttgemw. 

33uc^ipet3enfu^en, ©epgelflein^Suppe (©.58). 

@erdud). ©pecf, gebraten. @e6arfene ^artoffelu mit 
j^affee. jerlaffener 33utterfauce. 

23rob. 

«lbctti)eff en. 

©torfftfdjflofe (6. 67). 

£dfc. 

33rob. 3:^ee. 

ip«tei„to.per. get.e. »= *«'^ 

Una. Ung. Una. eent§. 

2^fb. 93udE|tt)ei3enmef)t.. 3.04 .64 23.30 10 

©epgemein 2.20 .12 .... 8 

3 ^fb. tartoffeln 96 .... 9.94 3f 

fm. gerdud). ©pec! 36 9.60 .... 9 35 

4H5fb.«rob 4.32 .36 37.36 lOiw 

i^fb. 3utfer 7.92 3i 

f lib. fetter ^afe 3. 2.48 .24 Hi 

l^fb.gefalgenerStDdfijc^ 4.80 .16 .... 8 

X^ee 2 

IBt. boHftdnbigeaJJilcf) 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

i^fb. Coffee 3 2)5 



Xotat 19.84 15.59 80.41 76i 

IBerlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



27 



157 



Bills of Fare, Class /. 



Monday, September. 



Breakfast. 






Dinner. 




Buckwheat Cakes. 




Giblet Soup (p. 58). 


Fried Bacon. 




Baked Potatoes with 


Coffee. 




Drawn Butter Sauce. 








Bread. 






Supper. 










Codfish Balls (p. 


57). 








Cheese. 










Bread. Tea. 










Protelds. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Cost 
in 




oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 


2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 


.64 


23.30 


10 


Giblets 


3.20 


.12 





8 


3 lbs. Potatoes 


96 





9.94 


3M 


% lb. Bacon 


.36 


9.60 





9 


41^ lbs. Bread 


4.32 


.36 


37.36 


IOtVit 


i^lb. Sugar 








7.92 


m 


% lb. Fat Cheese..-. 


3. 


2.48 


.24 


im 



lib. Salt Codfish. 4.80 

Tea 

Iqt. Whole Milk... 1.16 

1^ lb. Coffee 

Total 19.84 

Required 19.19 



.16 



1.23 



15.59 
12.42 



1.65 



80.41 
78.03 



Speifc^Kartcn, dlaffc 1, 



158 



3) i e It § t a g, © e |) t e m B e v. 
^ttittma. aWittrtgeifett. 

©erauc^. ©pecf, gebratem ©epo!. ^^tnbfleifd), gefotten, 

©cfottene Jl'artoffeln. mit 9}kerrettig;9Jlug. 

^rob. ^affee. ©ebampfter ^o^L 

S3rt)b. 
©erftenfuppe (©. 122) 

9«<>ent>effen. 

(Srbfenfuppe. 
,g>efe6t^cuit iinb Sutter. 

@ebdmp[teg Dbft. 

^rotelnforper. gette. p,^^^^ ^^^^^ 

Una. Ung. Una. eent§. 

U W- gepof. 9llnbfleifc^ 6.96 1.54 15 

3^fD. ^^ot)1 80 .... 2 6 

2^fb. 9JJe^l 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

2^tb. ^artoffeln 64 .... 6.62 2i 

1 ^fb.geborrteerbfen.. 3.68 .32 8.32 5 

3i^fb.S3rob 3.36 .28 29.06 81(20 

i ^fb. geraitcf). ©petf... .24 6.40 ... 6 

i^fb. Gutter 3.33 .... 6i 

i $jb. yaerenfett 1.96 .. 1 

i $rb. ^erlgerfte 88 .12 5.72 4 

1 Ot. abgera^mteaJiilc^. 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

1 ^t. tJoEftanbige m\l6^, .58 .62 .83 3i 

i^affee 34jio 

i^fb. 3uder 7.92 3i 

Obft 3 

%otal 22.04 15.29 85. 77% 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



158 



Bills of Fare, Class /. 



Tuesday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Bread. Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Corned Beef 

with Horseradish Sauce. 

Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 

Barley Porridge (p. 122). 



Supper. 

Pea Soup. 

Yeast Biscuit and Butler. 

Stewed Fruit. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

11^ lbs. Corn Beef 6.96 

3 lbs. Cabbage 80 

31bs. Flour 3.84 

3 lbs. Potatoes - .64 

lib. Dried Peas 3.68 

S^lbs.Bread 3.36 

yiVo. Bacon .24 

M lb. Butter 

%Vo. Suet 

1^ lb. Pearl Barley.. 88 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 

Ipt. Whole Milk 58 

^Ib. Coffee 

J^lb. Sugar 

Fruit .- 

Total 22.04 

Required 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 
1.54 

.48 

.32 

.28 
6.40 
3.33 
1.96 

.12 

.24 

.62 



15.29 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 



22.88 
6.63 
8.32 

29.06 



5.73 

1.65 

.83 

7.92 



85. 
78.03 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 
15 
6 
6 

5 



6M 
1 
4 
4 



78* 



Spcifc^Karten, (£Iaffc 1. ^59 



©eraud). ©pecf, gebraten. @ebrannte9[}^el;l|uppe (©. 121). 
STRaigbrob ((Sa03). @ebdmpfte§ J^ammelflcifd^. 

jlaffee. Ouetf^fartoffeln. 

Srob. 

@ebacfene ©o^nen. S3rob. 

Ipfelflofe (®. 108) 

nebft ^ubbing;(Sauce (@. 112). 

Un§. Ung. ling. ©entg. 

3 ^fb. |)OtttmeBnaden. . . 8.16 2.88 .... 24 

3 ^fb. .^artopn 98 .... 9.94 3f 

4^fb. S3rob 3.84 .32 33.20 9 1|5 

1 ^fb. aJief)! 192 .24 11.44 3 

2^fb. aJiaigme^I 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

l^fb. S3o^uen 3.68 .32 8.56 5 

i^fb. Buder 7.92 3i 

i^fb. gerau(^erter ©pecf .24 6.44 .... 6 

i^fb.S^ierenfptt 1.96 .... 1 

i^fb. ^affee 32)5 

1 Ot. boEftdnbige aJiilcf) 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

Slepfel 2 

S^ee 2 

Xotal 23.10 14.59 95.11 754)5 

aSerlangt. 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



159 



Bills of Fare, Class 1. 



Saturday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Corn Bread (p. 103). 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Browned Flour Soup (p. 121). 
Stewed Mutton. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Bread. 



Supper. 



Baked Beans. Bread. 

Apple Dumplings (p. 108), 

with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 

Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

3 lbs. Neck of Mutton 8.16 

3 lbs. Potatoes..-- -- 98 

41bs. Bread - - 3.84 

lib. Flour- -- 1.93 

3 lbs. Corn Meal -- 3.14 

lib. Beans --- 3.68 

J^ lb. Sugar 

1^ lb. Bacon 34 

^ lb. Suet 

1^ lb. Coffee ---- 

1 qt. Whole Milk - 1.16 

Apples - — 

Tea - - 

Total. 33.10 

Required -. 19.19 



■Cn+ci 


Carbo- 


Cost 




hydrates. 


in 


OZ. 


OZ. 


Cents. 


3.88 





34 





9.94 


m 


.33 


33.30 


9i 


.34 


11.44 


3 


1.30 


33.40 


6 


.33 


8.56 


5 


.... 


7.93 


3^ 


6.44 





6 


1.96 




1 


---. 


.... 


3f 



1.33 



14.59 
13.43 



1.65 



95.11 

78.03 



Speifc=Kartcn, dlaffe 1. 



(60 



©onntag, ^anuar. 

©efd^morter ©tocffifc^. Oebdmpfter (Bd)af§!opf 

33utter5rob. nebft ©oba;33i^cuit;jllofen. 

itaffee. 33ratfartofteln. 

33rob unb geriebener ^cife. 
dacao. 

^artoffeln mtt Sn'ie^^if'ittit. 

(gtngefaljeneS ©d^roeinefleijcii), geroftet. 

SOlaigbrei mit ^ubbing;©auce (©. 112). 

$ro.ei„tovpe.. gette. f *t *i^"^ 

Uns. Una. Una. ©entg. 

2 ^fb . 9J?ai§me^I 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

1 Gt. abgeraJ)mte9)ZUci^.. 1.06 .24 1.65 5 

1 ^45t. t)oU[tdnbige m\i6).. .58 .62 .83 3i 

iW- Bucfer 7.92 3i 

3^fb. 33uob 2.88 .24 24.90 6 91io 

1 ^fb. gejals. ©todfifc^. . 4.80 8 

i^fb. Gutter 6.66 .... 12^ 

i ^fb. ratimlofer taje... 1.20 .53 .20 2 

4 ^^fb. ^artoffein 1.28 .... 13.25 5 

i^fb eingefalg ©d)roeinefl. .12 3.20 .... 3 

^Wo. ^ierenfett 3.92 .... 2 

f ^fb. ay^el)! 1.44 .18 8.58 2i 

gleijd^ beranjc^lagt.. 4.08 1.44 .... 12 

^rotebeln 2 

Sacao- 6(^alen 2 

^affee 3 2J5 

Xoial 20.58 18.23 79.73 78 

SSerlatigt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



160 



Bills of Fare, Class I, 



Sunday, January. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fried Codfish. Sheep's Head Stew 

Bread and Butter. with Soda Biscuit Dumplings. 

Coffee. Baked Potatoes. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 
Cocoa. 

Supper. 

Potato and Onion Salad. 

Broiled Salt Pork. Bread. 

Corn Mush with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 

Proteids. Fats. ,Carbo-^. Cc«' 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

2 lbs. Corn Meal 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

Ipt. Whole Milk-. 58 .62 .83 ^ 

J^lb. Sugar .... .... 7.92 3^ 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 6x*o 

lib. Salt Codfish. 4.80 .... .... 8 

1^ lb. Butter .... 6.66 .... 123^ 

14 lb. Skim Cheese 1.20 .53 .20 2 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 .... 13.25 5 

M lb. Salt Pork 13 3.20 .... 3 

M lb. Suet 3.92 .... 2 

M lb. Flour 1.44 .18 8.58 2J4 

1 Sheep's Head, assumed to 

contain IJ^ lbs. meat. 4.08 1.44 .... 12 

Onions 2 

Cocoa Shells... .... .... .... 2 

Coffee. .... .... .... 3| 

Total 20.58 18.23 79.73 78 

Required 19.19 13.42 78.03 78 



5pctfea<aitcn, c£laf|c I. ^6^ 



DJ^Dutag, 5 a n u a r. 

^xumudt* gHittagcffen. 

@eba(fener 33rei unb SJloIaffe. (Suppc (uon gefodjtem 
33rDb. 9iinbfleifd)) mit 

^affee, 5Dkcaront§. 

@efod)te ^tinb^rceidie 

mit @en[[auce. 

^ofjnen;33vei. 

33rob. 

©efottene ^artofjelu mit 

33utter;©auce. 

D^iolri^^otri.^ubbing mit geborrten ^epfeln (0.IO8). 

^rob. ^^ee. 

^roletnforper. gette. ^^^^^^^^ "^.^ 

ling. Ung. Una. ©ents. 

2^fb. minbSwei^e 6.72 1.76 .... 16 

1 ^fb. S3o^nen.. 3.68 ,32 8.56 5 

^ ^fb. gebocrte ?tepfel... .iO .... 4.50 6 

2 '•^fb. ^artoffeln 64 .... 6.62 2i 

2mh.mai§imi)i 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

li^45fb. mt^i 2.88 .36 17.16 4i 

i^pib. 33utter 3.33 .... 6i 

i ^45tb. 5?ierenfett 3.92 .. 2 

i^45fb. yma\\t 2.48 2i 

slfD. «rob 2.88 .24 24.90 Q ^\io 

1 Ot. tjoHftanbige 9JhId) 1.16 1.23 1.6d 7 

i ^fb. ^affee. 

Xt)ee 



3 2[, 
2 



i ^fb . 2)Zacaroni§ 36 .02 3.06 3f 

Xotal 21.56 12.38 99.25 77 -"ho 

58erlQngt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



161 



Bills of Fare, Class 1, 



Monday, January, 
Breakfast. 

Fried Mush and Molasses. 
Bread. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 



Supper. 



Soup (from Boiled Beef) 

with Macaroni. 

Boiled Beef Flank 

with Mustard Sauce, 

Bean Puree. 

Bread. 



Boiled Potatoes with 
Butter Gravy. 
Dried Apple Roly Poly Pudding (p 
Bread. Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

2 lb. Beef Flank. G.72 

lib. Beans 3.68 

YiVo. Dried Apples, .10 

3 lbs. Potatoes .64 

3 lbs. Corn Meal... 3.14 

l^lbs. Flour 3.88 

M lb. Butter 

Mlb.Suet.... 

yi lb. Molasses 

]/2 1^- Sugar. 

31bs. bread 2.88 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

1^ lb. Coffee .... 

Tea .... 

J4 l''^. Macaroni .36 

Total 21..56 

Required. 19.19 

14 



108). 



TTo + o 


Carbo- 


Cost 


OZ. 


hydrates 


in 


OZ. 


Cents 


1.76 




16 


.33 


8..56 


5 





4.50 


6 




6.62 


2^ 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.36 


17.16 


4^ 


3.33 




6^ 


3.92 




2 





2.48 


2% 





7.93 


W, 


.24 


24.90 


6/0 


1.23 


1.65 


3| 








2 


.02 


3.06 


3% 


12.38 


99.25 


'^A 



12.42 



78.03 



78 



5pcii'e'Kaiten Claffe 1. 



162 



^vUmna* SJlittrtflcf fen. 

33ratfartoffeln. ©ebrannte ©riesfuppe mit 

58rob. geroftetem S3rob ((S. 121). 

^affee. ©ebdnipl'tes .^ammelflcifd) 

mit tgefeflofen. 

^tbcttbcffen. 

SBo^nenfuppe. 
aja(d)toaft. 

Ung. Ung. Unj. (£entg. 

2i ^fb. |)ammelfleiic^. . . 6.M) 2.40 .... 20 

1 Qt. abgeratimte^JJiild).. 1.06 .24 1.6.5 4 

li ^fb. S3o^nen 5..o2 .48 12.84 H 

i^funb S3ntter 3.33 .... 6i 

i ^fb. y^ierenfett 7.84 .... 4 

i ^4Sfb. 3ucfer 7.92 3i 

3 ^45fb. ^'artoffeln % .... 9.94 4i 

U^fb. yj^et)l 2.88 .36 17.16 4i 

1 Ct. t)oUltdnbige9Jiilii).. 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

3 ^45tD. 33rot) 2.88 .24 24.90 6 ^^jio 

i^45fb. ©rieg 42 .... 3.03 If 

i^fb. ft'affee 3 ^J5 

Xtiee 

2:Dtal 21.68 16.12 79.09 75 

SSerlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



162 



Bills of Fare, Class I, 



Tuesday, January. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fried Potatoes. Browned Farina Soup with 
Bread. Toast (p. 121). 
Coffee. Stewed Mutton, with 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Supper. 

Bean Soup. 

Milk Toast. 

Tea. 

Protpids FfltR Carbo- Cost 

froteids J^ats hydrates in 

°^- °^- oz. Cents 

21^ lbs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 .... 20 

Iqt. SkimMUk... 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

11^ lbs. Beans 5.52 .48 12.84 TJ^ 

J4 lb. Butter 3.33 .... 6^ 

1^ lb. Suet .... 7.84 .... 4 

1^ lb. Sugar .-.. .... 7.92 3}^ 

3 lbs. Potatoes .96 .... 9.94 414 

IJ^lbs. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4J^ 

1 qt. Whole Milk. 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

31bs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 W 

Mlb. Farina - — - 42 .... 3.03 1% 

%\h Cofeee - — - — - 3f 

Tea 

Total 21.68 16.12 79.09 75 

Required.'.' 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Speife^Kartcn, (£laffe II, ^63 



^pei^chavUn, ©laffe II* 



Jiir eine gamilie Don @ec^[en. ®ur(^[cE)nitt§foften 
$1.26 per Zaq ober 18 Sent§ pro ^erfon. 

®te (Speifefarten biefer (Slaffe raerben nid^t im detail 
gegeben. ^nbem bie fiir bie erfte (J(a[fe al§ 33afi§ ange= 
nommen ratrb, rairb erroartet, bag eiuigeSuruSartifel hcu 
gefiigt unb eine 5e[f ere Oualitnt ©peifen oerraenbet raerben ; 
hk Oua[ttdten ber ^roteinforper, be§ i^ctic^ unb ber 
£o^len^t)brate roerben bann nid;t oermiubert, tua^ etn 
^untt oon gvipfetev SSebeutung ift» 



163 Bills of Fare, Class IL 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS IL 



For family of six. Average price $1.26 per day, or 18 cts. 
per person. 

Tiie bills of fare in this class will not be given in detail. 
Taking those given for Class I as a basis, it is expected that 
certain luxuries will be added and a better quality of food 
used; the quantities of Proteid, Fat and Carbohydrate will 
then not be lowered, which is the point of greatest importance. 



Speife^Kartcu, Claffe III. 16^ 

^pi^Hje-^avUn, Claffjc III* 

gur etne gamilie von @ed;[en. ®urc^fd)nitt§pret§ 
$1.38 per Xag, ober 23 ©entS per ^erfon. 
©am§tag, ^at. 

Orancjen 9ttnbflet[d)fuppe mit 

(yier=Omelette auf (Sierteig (@. 128). 

Toaft. 9J^acaroni§ mit 

©efoc^Ter 9^'ei§ mit ^cife (®. 90). 

a}Zild) unb 3ucfer. Son)enga^n=@run. 

£affee. 23rob. 

5ldctt^ef fen . 
©aure D^a^mfuppc (@. 124). 
gretfd)md)eld)en (oon ©uppenfteifd)) 
(©. 49). 
©ral^ambrob mit 33utter. 
X()ee. £ud)en. 

Ung. Ung. Un^. ©entg. 

1 5|5fb. 9^ei§ 1.28 .16 12.24 8 

i^runb3uc!er 7.92 3i 

6 Slpfetftnen 10 

f ^funb 9Jiacaroni^ 1.08 .... 9.18 12| 

4^funb93rob 3.84 .32 33.22 9 IJ5 

2 ^|5funb 9Jk^I 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

i^funb^Mfee 3% 

2Qt. boUftanbtge Wild) 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

10 (gier 1.70 1.60 15 

2i^funb ^Ui']6) 8.40 2.20 .... 20 

f ^funb S3utter 9.99 .... 18f 

i ^funb fetter ^afe 2.00 2.32 .16 7i 

©aurer fftaijwi unb @e= 

ttjurje fiir ©uppe 6 

X^ee... 2 

Xotat 24.46 19.53 88.90 136 i^o 

SSertangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



164 



Bills of Fare, Class IIL 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS IIL 



For family of six. 
cents per person. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. 

Egg Omelet on 

Toast. 

Boiled Rice with 

Milk and Sugar. 

Cofeee, 



Average price, $1. 
Saturday, May. 



per day, or ^3 



Dinner. 

Beef Soup -with 

Egg Sponge (p. 128). 

Macaroni with Cheese (p. 90). 

Dandelion Greens. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 
Meat Croquettes (of soup meat) (p. 49). 
Graham Bread and Butter. 
Tea. Cake. 





Proteids 
oz. 


Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


lib. Rice 


1.28 


.16 


13.24 


8 


J^lb. Sug-ar 






7.92 


31^ 


6 Orang-es 








10 


M lb. Macaroni 


1.08 




9.18 


13M 


41bs. Bread... 


.... 3.84 


.32 


33.22 


9i 


2 lbs. Flour 


.... 3.84 


.48 


23.88 


6 


^Ib. Coffee 








3f 


2qts. Whole Milk.. 


2.32 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


10 Eg-g-s 


1.70 


1.60 




15 


21^ lbs. Meat 


.... 8.40 


2.20 


.... 


30 


% lb. Butter 




9.99 





18% 


J^ lb. Fat Cheese.. 


.... 2.00 


3.32 


.16 


m 


Sour Cream and flavors 


for 








soup 










6 


Tea 











2 


Total 


.... 24.46 


19.53 


88.90 


136iV 


Required 


19.19 


12.43 


78.03 


138 "" 



Spcifefarten, dlaffc III. 



{65 



^aferBrei mit 

3ucfer unb mil6). 

33utterbrDb. 

^affee. 



@ on nt a g, Wax. 

gwittagcffen. 

®d)tnfen mit ©iern. 

(Salat Don fallen 33Dl)nen 

mit Sattic^. 

9fi^abavber=^te. 

^acao. 

33rob. 



3fiei§pfannfnc^en (@. 93) mit 

Sucferfprup. 

©aucefartoffeln. 

2^ee. 

^roteinfSrper. ^^ette. 



Uns. 

f ^fb. |)afergru^e 1.74 

i^fb. a^ffee 

1 ^fb. 3uc!er 

2Gt tjcttftantige 9Jaic^ 2.32 

f^fb. Sutter 

l^fb. ©c^in!eu 3.84 

i^fb. 5Rierenfett 

12eter 2.0i 

gacao 

3 ^fb. ^artoffeln 96 

4^4^fb. $8rob 3.84 

i ^fb.©alat 10 

1 ^fb. SBo^nen 3.68 

9l^obac6er 

i^fb. 9tei§ 64 

li^fb.aJJe^I 2.88 

X^ee 

©atat§ubef)5r 

Xotal 22.04 

SScrlangt 19.19 

2S 



Uns. 
0.72 



2.46 
9.99 
5.84 
1.96 
1.92 



.32 

'.32 

'.08 
.36 



23.97 
12.42 



51?D^Ien= 

Ung. 

7.80 

15*.'8'4 
3.30 



9.94 
33.20 

.20 
8.55 

6.12 
17.16 



102.11 

78.03 



^rei§ 

iu 
gents. 

3 4]5 

3% 

7 
14 
18f 
25 

1 
18 

4 

31 

9il5 

5 

5 

4 

4 

4i 

2 

5 

137 
138 



165 



Bills of Fare, Class III, 



Sunday, May. 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal Mush with sugar 
and milk. 
Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Salad of Cold Beans and 

Lettuce 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Cocoa. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Rice Pancakes (p. 93), 
Sugar Syrup. 
Stewed Potatoes, 
Tea. 



with 



Proteids 
oz. 

% lb. Oatmeal 1.74 

% lb. Coffee 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 qts. Whole MUk 2.33 

M lb. Butter 

lib. Ham 3.84 

^Ib. Suet 

12Eg8-s 2.04 

Cocoa 

31bs. Potatoes 96 

41bs. Bread 3.84 

i^lb.Lettuce 10 

1 lb. Beans 3.68 

Rhubarb 

1^ lb. Rice 64 

IJ^lbs. Flour 2.88 

Tea 

Salad Dressing 

Total 22.04 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 

0.72 



2.46 
9.99 
5.84 
1.96 
1.92 



.32 



.36 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 

7.80 

15.84 
3.30 



9.94 

33.20 

.20 

8.55 

6.12 
17.16 



23.97 
12.42 



102.11 

78.03 



Cost 

in 

Cents. 

3| 

3| 

7 
14 
18M 
25 

1 
18 

4 

m 

9^ 

5 

5 

4 

4 

4^ 

2 

5 

137 
138 



Spctfcfartc, (£Iaffc III. 166 



gpf^ D nt ag, max. 
^vumud. gWittagef?ett. 

Oranc^en. ^ammelBraten mil ^Brobs 

mildi) = ioaft. fullfet (^. 106). 

^affee. Ouetfc^fartoffeln. 

mai^hxd mtt 3u(fer unb TOld^. 
©obara^m (@. 136). 

^afttnaienfuppe (©. 119) mit Jpefeflofen (©. 128). 
SSutterbrob. 

<PfOtei„«rpev. gette. *; *f 

Utt§. Unj. Ung. dentg. 

3^^fb.35rob 3.36 .28 29.06 8 i]io 

3^fb. ^ammelfleifd).... 8.16 2.88 .... 48 

2Dt.t)oIIftanbige5DliI(^.. 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

li^fb. Buder 23.76 lOi 

l^fb.^k^I 1.92 .24 11.44 3 

i^fb.S3utter 6.66 .... 12i 

i^fb. ^affee 3 2(5 

eOronqen 1? 

2 ^fb. 9Jlatgmef)t 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

4(Ster 68 .64 .... 6 

3 ^fb. ^artoffelii 96 .... 9.94 3f 

^i)ee I 

6obara{)m • • • • • • • • ^ 

^aftinafen 6 



%otal 20.54 14.36 99.90 136i 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



166 



Bills of Fare, Class IIL 



Monday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oranges. Roast Mutton and Bread 

Milk Toast. Dressing (p. 106). 

Coffee. Mashed Potatoes. 

Corn Mush with Sugar 

and Milk. 
Soda Cream (p. 136). 

Supper. 

Parsnip Soup (p. 119), with Yeast Dumplings (p. 128). 

Bread and butter. 

Sponge Cake. Tea. 

PrnfpiViH PfltQ Carbo- Cost 

Proteids iats hydrates in 

^''- °^- oz. Cents 

^Ibs. Bread 3.36 .28 29.06 SyV 

3 lbs. Mutton 8.16 2.88 .... 48 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

IJ^lbs.Sugar .... 23.76 lOJ^ 

lib. Flour 1.92 .24 11.44 3 

1^ lb. Butter 6.66 .... 12i^ 

i^lb. Coffee .... .... 3f 

6 Orang-es 10 

2 lb. Cornmeal 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

4Eg'g8 - .68 .64 .... 6 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 .... 9.94 3% 

Tea .-. .... 2 

Soda Cream 3 

Parsnips — 6 

Total 20.54 14.36 99.90 136^ 

Required 19.19 12.43 78.03 138 



SpeifcFarten, dlaffc III. 



{67 



S) i e n ft a g, 90^ a t. 



33uttertoaft. 
^affee. 
(5onfert>irte grud)te. 



gwittageffctt. 

©auerramp[er;(Suppe (®. 120). 
©ebratener Mauliax\d^. 
S^ubeln (©. 90). 
33rob. 
©equellter 9^ei§pubbtng (®. 107). 
5H)eni>effeit. 



©ebacfener 35ret. 
©ebampfter 9^^abarber. 
grifc^e groiebdcfe mit 33utter (©. 

^roteinforper. f^^tte. 



Ung. 
eingema(f)te 5riic!^tc 

2 ^fb. aJioiSmeljl 3.14 

3 ^fb. 33rob 2.88 

liOt. tjottftanbige ajJilc^ 1.74 
2 Gt. Qbgecafimte 2}iilcf). 2.12 

atfiabarber 

2^fb. SD^e^I 3.84 

1 ^fb. Gutter 

i^fb. Buder 

©auerrampfer uftu. fiir 

©uppe 

i ^fb. fReig 64 

i^fb. Sfiierenfett 

S^ib. frifc^e gifc^e 8.00 

i^fb. ^affee 

4@ier 68 

X^ee 

Xotai 23.04 

SSerlangt 19.19 



1.20 
.24 

1.86 
.48 

\48 
13.33 



.08 

3.92 

.24 

".64 



22.47 
12.42 



98). 

f)t)brote. 
Un^. 

22.40 
24.90 

2.50 

3.30 

22.88 
V.92 



6.12 



90.02 
78.03 



in 
dentg. 
15 

6 

6^Jio 
lOi 

8 

8 

6 
25 

3i 

5 
4 
2 

18 

3 2)5 

6 
2 

129A 

138i« 



167 Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Tuesday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Buttered Toast. Sorrel Soup (p. 120.) 

CoJBfee. Fried Catfish. 

Canned Fruit. Noodles (p. 90.) 

Bread. 
Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Supper. 

Fried Mush. 
Stewed Rhubarb. 
Fresh Rusks and Butter (p. 98). 
Tea. 

Prnfpids "Pnts Carbo- Cost 

Froteids. lats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

Cannjed Fruit 15 

21bs. Corn Meal..- 3.14 1.20 23.40 6 

31bs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 6^ 

11^ qts. Whole Milk 1.74 1.86 2.50 10)^ 

2 qts. Skim Milk 2.12 .48 3.30 8 

Rhubarb.. .... .... .... 8 

21bs. Flour... 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

llb.Butter .... 13.33 .... 25 

i^lb.Sugar .... 7.92 ^ 

Sorrel &c. for Soup 5 

i^lb. Rice 64 .08 6.12 4 

141b. Suet 3.92 .... 2 

31bs. Fresh Fish.... 8.00 .24 .... 18 

J^lb. Coffee .... .... .... 3| 

4Eggs 68 .64 .... 6 

Tea .... .... 2 

Total 23.04 J^.47 90.02 129 3 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



SpctfeFarten, dlaffc III. 



t68 



© a in g t a (J. (September. 

.Oomin9=33rei mit ^flaumenfuppe (@. 125). 

Bucferfprup. ©evofteteS 33ea[fteaf. 

©ebdmpfte 33trnen ©efottenev, griinec ^Bai§. 

geroftete gracferg. SSeifec >Ru6en unb Jlartoffeln 

•^affee. (^. 116). 33rob. 

5(pfelpic (©. 109). 

5lt>cn^c?fcn. 

3ri|7; ©ten) (©. 52). 

33i§cuit unb^uttev. 

^efe!rapfd;en (©. 99). 

S^ee. 

^roteinBrper. S-ette. f°^^^"= ^!^^^^ 
" ritibrote. in 

Ung. Ung. ling. Sentg. 

1 m aomin^ 1.58 .60 11.20 5 

S3irnen unb ^flaumen 5 

2^fb.S3rob 1.92 Vl6 le'io 4 si. 

imeracferg 50 ... 4i5 5 

2 ^[b. S3eef (Steaf 6.72 1.76 ' 36 

1 3)115. gritner 9[>iai^ " ifS 

2 ^fb. totoffelu Qi :;;; 6:62 2i 

5lepfel 4^ 

1 ^fb. meiBe 9?uben 15 .... i '12 7U-. 

3W.S)?ef)1 5.76 .64 34.32 9 

i ^3fb. 9?teren[ett 1.96 1 

1 U5fb. aammelfleifcf) 2.72 .96 « 

f^fb. Gutter 9.99 '*" is* 

2®ier 34 .32 ..'.*.' 41U 

Xf)ee ; 2 '^ 

1 ^fb. 3iicfer • 15*84 7 

1 at. boUftanbige mild). 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

im ^Qffee /. 32j^ 

^otal 20.83 17.62 9L50 13'8^n 

^erlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



168 



Bills of Fare, Class III, 



Saturday, 
Breakfast. 

Hominy Mush with 

Sugar Syrup 

Stewed Pears. 
Toasted Crackers. 
Coffee. 



September. 

Dinner. 
Plum Soup (p. 125). 
Broiled Beef Steak. 
Boiled Green Corn. 
Turnips and Potatoes (p. 
Bread. 
Apple Pie (p. 109). 



116). 



Irish Stew (p. 52). 

Biscuit and Butter. 

Yeast Doughnuts (p. 99). 

Tea. 

ProteldSo Fats, 

oz. oz. 

lib. Hominy 1.58 .60 

Pears and Plums 

21bs. Bread.. 1.92 .16 

1^ lb. Crackers 50 

2 lbs. Beef Steak 6.73 1.76 

1 doz. Green Corn 

2 lbs. Potatoes 6i 

Apples.. 

lib. Turnips 15 

31bs. Flour 5.76 .64 

i^lb. Suet 1.96 

lib. Mutton 2.72 .96 

%lb. Butter • 9.99 

2 Eggs - 84 .32 

Tea 

1 lb. Sugar 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 

J^lb. Coffee 

Total... 20.83 17.62 

Required 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- Cost 

hydrates. in 

oz. Cents. 

11.20 5 
5 

16.60 4| 

4.15 5 



6.62 



1.12 
34.32 



15.84 
1.65 



91.50 
78.03 



15 

4 
OtV 



18% 
4i 
2 

7 
7 

138 



Spetfgfarten, dlaffe III. \6<) 

© n It t a (3, i3 e p t e m B e r. 

©auermi[(^pfann!ud)en mit Oriine 3!}lat§fuppe (©. 120). 

3iic!erft)rup (@. 103). gricaffirteg ,^ul)n ((S. 57). 

Surft. 33rob. j^artoffeln iiub gclk 9iu. 

@ur!en. 6en (®. 116) mit ge; 

^affee. fd^movten ^wkbdn, 

©ebarfener @rie§piibbing (@. lOS). 

^affertoaft. 

atetlige. 

Un§. Ung. llnj. (SentS. 

9f{ettigc 3 

1 ^fb. SBurft 2.32 6.00 .... 12 

f^fb. ^utfeu 9.90 5i 

U Ot. t)oa[tanbigeaJiiIc^ 1.74 1.85 2.48 lOi 

3^fb. ^3i-ob 2.88 .24 24.90 6 ^I^q 

i ^uj. gi-uner Wai§ 7i 

(Sin atte;3 |)ul)n (3 ^fb.).. 9.00 1.90 .... 50 

2^tb. ^artoffeln 60 .... 6.60 2i 

i^-Pfb. gelbeS^iiben 72 1 

©urfen 2 

UW. afie^t 2.88 .36 17.16 4i 

i ^fb. ®rie§ 84 .... 6.00 2i 

i ^fb. SSutter 3.33 .... 6i 

1 Ot. fauere aJJitc^ 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

^affee 3 sj^ 

Sfjee 2 

2@ter 34 .32 .... 4 ijs 

Xotal 21.66 14.24 69.41 1272(5 

SBerlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 

29 



169 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Sunday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Sour Milk Pancakes with 
Sugar Syrup (p. 103). 
Sausage. Bread. 
Cucumbers. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 



Green Corn Soup (p. 130). 

Fricaseed Chicken (p. 57). 

Potatoes and Carrots (p. 116). 

with Fried Onions. 

Bread. 



Supper. 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. 108. 
Water Toast. 
Radishes. 
Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

Radishes 

lib. Sausage 2.33 

% lb. Sug-ar 

IJ^ qts. Whole Milk 1.74 

3 lbs. Bread 3.88 

J/^doz. Green Corn 

An Old Chicken ( 3 lbs. ) 9.00 

3 lbs. Potatoes 60 

J^lb. Carrots 

Cucumbers 

11^ lb. Flour.. 2.88 

\i\h. Farina 84 

J4 lb. Butter 

Iqt. Sour Milk 1.06 

Coflfee 

Tea 

3Eg-gs 34 

Total 21.66 

Required 19.19 

15 



Fats. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 
3 
12 


6.00 


;;;; 





9.90 


5^ 


1.85 


2.48 


10^ 


.24 


24.90 


6A 








7^ 


1.90 





50 





6.60 


2^ 


.... 


.72 


1 
2 

4^ 


.36 


17.16 





6.00 


2% 


3.33 





6M 


.34 


1.65 


4 


.... 


.... 


3t 

3 

4i 


.33 





14.24 


69.41 


127| 


13.43 


78.03 


138^ 



Spcif ef arte, (£laffc III. 1 70 

5DUnta(3, September. 

e^ritijftuif* gWittaoencti. 

^todfi\dyMoU> giinb^bvaten. 

33uttcvl6rob. ©ebacfene Jl'artoffeln 

£affee. ©ebcimpfte ^arabtegapfeL 

©ebdmpfte 3(epfeL Stmonabe. 

33rob. 

5Beerem^oti) ^ohj (©. 108.) 

^dfe. 

^Butterbrob. 

^rotemforper. gette. ^^^^^^^^ ^„ 

Ung, Ung. Ung. ©ent^. 

f $fb. (StocEfifc^ 3.60 6 

4 ^fb. ^'artoffeln 1.28 ..... 13.24 5 

3 ^fb. S3rob 2.88 .24 24.90 6 9 lo 

f ^3fb. S3utter 9.99 .... 18f 

ii Ot. boaftanbige 9JiiIc^. . . 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

l^fb. ^iitfer 15.84 7 

2i ^3tb. 9ftttibfleifcf) 8.40 2.20 .... 40 

3 ^fb. ^arabie§ap[el 4.00 5 

eituonen ] 

U^fb. gjJef)1 3.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

i ^45f b. fetter ^aje 2.00 2.32 .18 IJ 

i^fb.^affee ^Ms 

^^ee 2 

Dbft ■— ^ 10^ 

Zotal 24.36 17.57 78.62 137 

^ertangV. '.'.'," .'.';.'.'., X9a9 12.42 78,03 138 



170 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Codfish Balls. 

Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 

Stewed Apples. 



Dinner. 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lemonade. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Berry Roly Poly (p. 108). 

Cheese. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. 

oz. oz. 

%lb.Codfl8h 3.60 

4 lbs. Potatoes .._ 1.28 

31bs. Bread 2.88 ~ .24 

%lb.Butter 9.99 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 2.46 

lib. Sugar 

2i^lbs. Beef 8.40 2.20 

3 lbs. Tomatoes 

Lemons 

l^lb. Flour 3.88 .36 

1^ lb. Fat Cheese 2.00 2.32 

J^lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Fruit 

Total 24.36 17.57 

Required ,.... 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- Cost 
hydrates. in 
oz. Cents. 



13.24 
24.90 



3.30 
15.84 



4.00 



17.16 
.18 



78.62 
78.03 



1894 
14 

7 
40 

5 

7 

4>^ 

7^ 



10 



137 
138 



Spctfefartcn, Claffe III. 



^7^ 



® i c n § t a g, @ c p t e m 6 e v. 
^tmmd. aHittrtOCffen. 

©eroftete 3J^acfvelen. ©aure 9^al;mfuppc (@. 124). 

iSaucctavtoffeln. .^ammelbraten mit 

^iitterh-ob. Svobfiiafel. 

^^affee. ©efodjtc votive 9tuben. 

33robpubbtng (©. ill 9io. 2.) 

^Ipfelfviipfc^en mit 
^uderfprup. 
^uttevbrob. 

^roteiniarpe. ^ette. ^^^l ^[f 

Un§. Un§. Ung. ©ent^. 

U^fb. 5!Jle^I 2.88 .36 17.16 4i 

4 eier 68 .64 .... 8i 

2 0t. tJoUftaubigeajairf)... 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

l^fb. ^Lidei- 15.84 7 

i^fb. y^iereiifctt 1.96 .... 1 

2* ^fb. .f)ammelfleiid) 6.80 2.40 .... 40 

2 ^fb. roti)e 9iubeii 3.00 5 

li ^^fb. gejals. 9Jt\ic!reIen.. ^-^S 3.00 .... 18f 

li ^fb. ^ortoffelu 48 .... 4.96 1 9|io 

4^fb. 93i-ob 3.84 .32 33.20 9% 

i^fb. S3utter 6.66 .... 12i 

Sourer fRaljm utib 5Iepfet 8 

i^fb. Coffee S\ 

S^ee , 2 

%otal 21.56 17.80 79.46 135* 

SSerlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



Itl Bills of Fare, Class III 



Tuesday, September. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Broiled Mackerel. Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 

Stewed Potatoes. Roast Mutton 

Bread and Butter. with Bread Stuffing. 

Coffee. Boiled Beets. 

Bread Pudding (p. Ill, No. 2). 

8upper. 

Apple Fritters (p. 114), 

with Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

PrntPirI<« Pnts CarbO- Cost 

Proteids. iats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

1>^ lbs. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

4Egg-S- .68 .64 .... 8i 

3qts. Whole Milk 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

lib. Sugar -— .— 15.84 7 

^Ib.Suet.... 1.96 .... 1 

2i^lbs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 .... 40 

2]bs. Beets .— 3.00 5 

mihs. Salt Mackerel 4.56 3.00 .... 18% 

11^ lbs. Potatoes.. 48 .... 4.96 ly^ 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

3^1b. Butter .... 6.66 .... 12i^ 

Sour Cream and Apples 8 

i^lb.Cofifee .... .— 3f 

Tea .... ---- 2 

Total. 2L56 IT^SO 79.46 135^ 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



jpeifc^Kartcn, dlaffe 111. 



U2 



(S a m § t a g, ,3 ex n na v. 

33ud;niei5cnfud)en, unb ©djiueinebraten mit 

33uttevbvob. Ouetfc^fartoffeln. 

jl'affee. ^nbianifc^er ^^ubbiug (^. 110.) 

^vob. 

^ering unb £artoffeIfalat. 

Sinfen mtt ^n^clfdjen (@. IIG). 

^utter6rob. 

*rote™«.pev. gette. f^^ ^^"^ 

Un§. U115. Un§. ©ent^. 

2 ^[b. S3ud^tt)ei5enme{)I.. 3.04 .64 23.20 10 

li^fb. ma\§mti)i 2.28 .91 16.80 4i 

1 ^fb. Gutter 13.33 .... 25 

f^fb.Buder 11.88 5^ 

1 at. t)oEftanbige9Mc^.. 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

Slepfel 4 

2i^fo. ©c^ttjeinefleijc^.. 8.00 2.80 .... 37i 

3 ^fb. ^artoffeln 96 .... 9.94 3^15 

2 ©iei- 34 .32 .... 4 ije 

1 Ot. abgera^mteajJUd).. 1.16 .24 1.65 4 

3 ^fD. 33uot) 2.88 .24 24.90 6 9|io 

i^fb. Siufen 2.04 .16 4.32 5 

i ^fb. 3raetjd)en 15 .... 3.80 5 

i ^^fb. ^\affee 32)5 

^{jgg _ _ 2 

6 |)ennge" .' .' .* ." * .* * .' .' ." ." .' * 1.68 ' '.68 '. '.V. 5 

(BaiaU^nbti^ox 5 

Xotai 23.69 20.55 98.14 1371 

SSerlangt 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



172 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Saturday, January 

Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes and 

Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Roast Fresh Pork, with 

Apple Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Indian Pudding (p. 110). 

Bread. 



Herring and Potato Salad. 

Lentils, with Prunes (p. 116). 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats, 

oz. oz. 

2 lbs. li'ac&wLeat Ficur 3.04 .64 

13^ lbs. Corn Meai ._ 2.28 .91 

lib. Butter 13.33 

Mlb.Sugar 

1 qt. AVhole Milk 1.16 1.23 

Apples 

^ lbs. Fresh Pork 8.00 2.80 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 

2 Eggs .34 .32 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.16 .24 

31bs. Bread 2.88 .24 

i/j lb. Lentils 2.04 .16 

3^ lb. Prunes .15 

3^ lb. Coffee 

Tea 

6 Herrings - 1.68 .68 

Salad Dressing 

Total- - 23.69 20.55 

Required - 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- 


Cost 


lydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents. 


23.20 


10 


16.80 


i\i 





25 


11.88 


5M 


1.65 


7 


.... 


4 


■ 


37JiS 


9.94 


3* 





4i 


1.65 


4 


24.90 


et*. 


4.33 


5 


3.80 


5 




3| 





3 





5 





5 


98.14 


137^ 


78.03 


138 



Spcife=Karten, Claffc III. K75 

(S n n t a g, ^ a it u o r. 

^ildpZoafi. .Salter e^raeinebraten. 

33ratfartoffern. ^ubeln (@. 90). 

'^rtffee- ©ebdmpfter ^^o{)L 

33rot). 
©equeHter 9^ei§pubbing (@. lOV), 
90Zai§!affee (©. 135). 

?»t>cn^effen. 

^artoffelfuppe [@. 118]. @erte6ener £afe. 

33utterbrob. 

^lufgcgangener £uc^en [®. 98]. gonfcroirte griidjte. 

3:^ee. 

^roteinforper. f^ette. fo^^en^ ^reig 
l^^brnte. in 

Una. lln§. Uns. ©ent^. 

i $fb. fetter ^afe 1.08 ,95 06 3^ 

^ W- '^^W 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

i ®ier 68 64 8* 

2 at. bollftanbige 9J?iI(^ 2.32 2,46 s'so 14 

1 Gt. abgei-al)mte 9J^ilcfi.. 1.O6 .24 165 4 

f ^[b. S3ittter ' 999 '•''^ .L 

l^[b. 3uc!eu .'';;' 15:42 ^f 

2 ^fb. (Scl)meiueftci)cli. ... 6.40 2 24 qn 

2mi^of)I.. :... .80 .... 1:66 8 

^^rb. mei^ 64 .08 6 12 4 

o ^fb. S3uob 2.88 .24 24.90 6 9u. 

9)?aigmef)l (gebor Corner) o ^^ 

eonfei-Dirte griidite ■■" -.n 

^i^fb. taffee ;;;; •••• ^ 



St)ee. 



32)5 



P^?^ 20.98 17.32 89.17 13311 

^ei-lQligt. 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



2 
"10 



173 Mis of Fare, Class 111 



Sunday, January. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Cold Boast Pork, 

Fried Potatoes. Noodles (p. 90). 

Coffee. Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 
Swelled Bice Pudding (p. 107). 
Corn Coffee (p. 135). 

Supper. 

Potato Soup (p. 118). Grated Cheese. 

Bread and butter. 

Baised Cake (p. 98). Canned Fruit. 

Tea. 

Proteids 
oz. 

^ lb. Fat Cheese 1.08 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

2 lbs. Flour 3.84 

4 Eggs 68 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.33 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 

% lb. Butter 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 lbs. Fresh Pork 6.40 

21bs. Cabbage 80 

i^lb. Rice .64 

31bs. Bread 2.88 

Corn (dry grain).- - 

Canned Fruit.-. 

i^lb. Coffee .-. 

Tea 

Total 20.98 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents 


.95 


.06 


3M 





13.24 


5 


.48 


22.88 


6 


.64 




8^ 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


.24 


1.65 


4 


9.99 





18M 





15.42 


7 


2.24 





30 





1.60 


8 


. .08 


6.13 


4 


.24 


24.90 


6x^0 


.... 


.... 


10 


.... 





3f 








2 


17.33 


89.17 


1331 


12.43 


78.03 


138^" 



Speifefartcn, dlaffe III. 



m 



^ud^tDetjenfudien 

muxft 

£affee. 

2lpfeimu§. 



Tl n t a g, ^ a n ii a r. 



grBfenfuppe [@. 118]. 

3fiinb§braten. 
@ebac!ene il'artoffelu. 
(Sonfevoirte ^arabiegcipfel. 
©erftenfc^leim [@. 112]. 



5H>cnl>effett 



j^rtrtoffelfitppe mit (5ier= iinb 33rob!lofen [©. 128]. 

©djiDarjbrob mit 33utter. 

gonferoirte %xM)U. Xl^ee. 



^roteinfarper. f^ette. 

Ung. Ung. 

2 ^fb. 95ud)tt)ei5enme^t . , 3.04 - .64 

l^fb. ^iSurft 2.32 6.00 

2 ^fb. 3ftinb[Ieifd) 6.72 1.76 

3^fb. .tni-toffelu 96 

2^[b.^ai-abie^^apftl[jelb[t 

eingemadit] 19 

3^tb. '^uob 2.88 .24 

2 eieu 34 .32 

i^fb. ©evfte 88 .12 

1 Ot. boaftdnbige milO) 1.16 1.23 

i^fb. ^ucfer 

l^fb. geborrte (grbfen.. 3.68 .32 

i^fuub S3iitter 6.66 

©oiijerDirte g'i-urf)te 

i^fb. ^Mffee 

X^ee 

Slepfcl 

%otal 22.17 17.29 

SBerlangt 19.19 12.42 



I)t)brate. 

Una. 

23.20 



9.94 

3.50 
24.90 

5."72 
1.65 

7.92 

8.32 



in 
eentg. 
10 
12 
32 

3f 

6 

6 91io 

4 1J6 

4 

7 

3i 

5 
12i 
10 

2 
5 



85.15 127 IJ5 
78.03 138 



174 



Bills of Fare, Class ItL 



Monday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Sausage. 

Coffee. 

Apple Sauce. 



Dinner. 

Pea Soup (p. 118). 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Barley Gruel (p. 121). 



Swpiier. 



Potato Soup with Egg and Bread Balls (p. 128). 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Canned Fruit. Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 

lib. Sausage 3.33 

31bs. Beef 6.73 

31bs. Potatoes 96 

3 lbs. Tomatoes (canned at 

home) 19 

3 lbs. Bread 3.88 

3Eg-gs 34 

\iVa. Barley 88 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1.16 

3^ lb. Sug-ar 

lib. Dried Peas... 3.68 

% lb. Butter 

Canned Fruit 

MVa. Coffee.. 

Tea 

Apples 

Total 33.17 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents 


.64 


33.30 


10 


6.00 





13 


1.76 




33 


- — 


9.94 


3M 




3.50 


6 


.34 


34.90 


6iV 


.33 





4.^ 


.13 


6.73 


4 


1.33 


1.65 


7 





7.93 


33^ 


.33 


8.33 


5 


6.66 




133^ 






10 


.--. 




3| 






3 







5 


17.39 


85.15 


1271 


13.43 


78.03 


138' 



5peifc!artc, dlaffe 111. ^75 

3) i e u 5 t a (3, ^ a 11 u a v. 

@eraud;erter ©pecf, gebrateiu ©ebacfene Jl'artoffeln 
3tpfelmii§. SSinter=©pcije!iirl6i§. 

^affee. Siitterfuc^en mit geborrten 

Slepfelu nebft^ubbtngfauce. 
9J^ai§!affee. 
5l(>cnt>effctt. 
.fiammelfletfc^ unb 33oI;nenl6riU;e. 
^utterbrob. 

^Icil^djen. 

^roteinforper . 

Ung. 

f ^fb. geraitd^erter ©pec! .36 
i $fb. geboLTte Slepfel... aO 

1 ^[b. 33Dt)nen 3.68 

i ^fb. fetter ^afe 1.00 

iPb. 3uc!er 

2 0t. boEftanbige SQWcf).. 2.32 
2i ^fb. |)ammelfleif(^... 6.80 

3 ^fb. ^artoffeln 96 

2 ^[b.2Binter=©peife!ui-bi^ .16 

^lo^c^en 

2 ^fb. ^rob 1.92 

2i^45fb. 9Jlef)1 4.80 

i $fb. S3utter 

i W- ^affee 

X^ee 

Slepfel 

Xotol 22.10 

^erlangt 19.19 



^etU. 


^oJ)Ien= 
^t)brate. 


in 


Uns. 


Una. 


©entg. 


9.66 




9 





*4.44 


6 


.32 


8.56 


5 


1.16 


.... 


3f 




15.84 


7 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


2.40 




30 





9.94 


3f 




3.20 


10 
15 


.16 


16.60 


4'% 


.60 


27.94 


8i 


3.33 


.... 


6i 


.... 


.... 


3 2)5 


.... 


.... 


2 

5 


20.09 


89.82 


132 7)10 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



ITo 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Tuesday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Graham Biscuits. 
Fried Bacon. Apple Sauce. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 



Boiled Mutton. 

Baked Potatoes, 

Winter Squash. 

Dried Apple Short Cake 

with Pudding Sauce. 

Corn Coffee. 



Suj)per. 

Mutton and Bean Broth. 

Bread and Butter, 

Cheese, Tea. 

Cookies, 



Proteids 
oz. 

% lb. Bacon 36 

\i lb. dried Apples 10 

lib. Beans. 3.68 

1-4 lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 

1 lb. Sugar 

3 qts. Whole Milk 3,33 

^ lbs. Mutton 6,80 

3 lb. Potatoes 96 

3 lbs. Winter Squash 16 

Cookies .-- 

31bs, Bread 1,93 

31^ lbs. Flour 4,80 

J4 lb. Butter 

i^lb,Colfee 

Tea -.-- 

Apples 

Total 33,10 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 

9.66 



1.16 



3.46 
3.40 



.16 



3.33 



30.09 
13.43 



Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 



4.44 

8,56 



15.84 
3,30 



9,94 
3,30 



16,60 
37,94 



89,83 
78.03 



Costs 

in 
Cent 



5 

3M 

7 
14 
30 

3% 
10 
15 

4f 



138 



4 



^nrxilf halie ^xitaB&mahliciii^tt, 



2Benn 3^'^^"*^ 3}^onate ober and) luiv ^Sodjcn lang 
faite ^vfcittag^inatjljeiteu 311 genic^en l)at, [0 ift e^ bcv 
Wciiije xvcvil), bicfe ^Dctttag^mnfjljeit fo gut ^u Bcvciteu, 
wic c§ moglid; ift, xiitb fie Ijiibfd; ^uin ^JJitiicIjinen ^u Der= 
paden. ^^'^'-'^'^^'^'^^^ ^^^^^, ^^^^ c^ and) ben befteit 3(ppetitt 
uevbevbeit faun, wain man feiit Betegte^j 33uttevBvDb mit 
3(pte^;^^^ie befc^miert, ober fetnen Jl'ud)en mit (S[[ig Don 
ben ©urfcit burdjiDeic^t finbet. ^arnit cine 33iid)[e obev 
ein jlovt) uoit beftimmten 3)emenfiDnen fo Diet toie mi)g; 
lid) unb bie uevfdjiebenen ©orten von einanber getrenut 
l^alten tann, miiffen fie in ^-ddjer getfjeilt fciit. 

^a§ (Sinfac^fte — ein lctnglid);uierecfiger i^ovh, — tljeile 
il^n in ^jiuci §dd)er oermittelft eineS fo 3U(]efd)nittenen 
©tiideg ^^appenbedel, ha^ e§ fid; giemlid; bidjt cinfdjieben 
la^t; fiittevebann bie ^raei %dd)cv mit I^iibfdjem ^acfpapiev 
au§, 'oa^ jebcn ^ag frifc^ Beigefitgt rairb. Man tann 
auf biefelBe 5Bcife and) vicv ^dc^er abtljeiten. (^im hid)t 
fdilie^enbe ^innevne ©eraiiqbiidjfe ift IjiiBfc^ ^unx 3(ufk? 
voal)xen uon £dfe. (Sine rainjige „(Sa[5enbiidjfe'^ foUte 
©at^ unb ^-Pfeffer burd)einonber gemengt ent()a(ten. 
9^d^e an hie innere ^Beite be§ JtorbbedelS Seberriemen 
gum ,!^a(ten be§ SJlefferS, ber @a6el unb be§ :2offel§. 

Um hen £orB minbe einen D^iemen, hamit ^u einen 
fleinen 33Ied^feffel mit !alten ©uppen, raie fie aU @e= 
trdn!e im ©ommer empfoljlen raerben, an(jdngen !annft. 

£alte ^ubbinge follten in ftarfeg ©d^reiBpapier, bann 
in ^alfpapier eingemidclt unb bic^t 3ugeftccft iperbcn. 



TWELVE COLD DUsTNEES. 



If a man is to eat a cold dinner for months or even 
for weeks, it is quite worth while to make that din- 
ner as good as it can be, and to pack it nicely for carry- 
ing Every one knows how it can take the edge off 
even a keen appetite to find his sandwich smeared 
with apple pie, or his cake soaked with vinegar from 
the pickles. That a box or basket of given dimen- 
sions should hold as much as possible, and keep the 
different kinds of food separate, it must be divided 
into compartments. 

Simplest — an oblong basket, — divide into two 
compartments by a piece of pasteboard cut so that 
it slips in rather tightly, then line the two compart- 
ments with nice wrapping paper put in fresh every 
day. It may be divided into four parts in the same 
way. A close fitting tin spice box is nice for holding 
cheese. A tiny ''salve" box should contain salt and 
pepper mixed. Sew leather straps on the cover of the 
basket inside, for holding knife, fork and spoon. 

Put a strap around the basket that you may hang 
from it a little pail containing cold soups recom- 
mended for drinks in summer. 

Cold puddings should be wrapped in strong writ- 
ing paper, then in wrapping paper and pinned close. 

176 



grDoIf falte nTittag5inaI]l3eitcrt. 



X77 



a 1 1 e 3}^ i 1 1 a g g m a f; I ? e 1 1 e n f i'l r b e n © o m nt e r. 



1. 93utterbrob» 
^^artoffelJQlat unb falte ge= 

bacfene gtfc^e. 
^alteg, gefocf)te§9tinbfIeijc^. 

5lpf elmug . 



4. 9[«it Gef)arftem 9?mbfleifc^ 

belegteg 33rob. 

©alot t)on SimaboI;nen, 

^ngirerpld^c^en. 

eottage^^'afe. 

Stmonabe t)on i^tanbijd^em 

5. ©raf)am ^rob. 

Salter ^amimlhvaten. 

®urfen mit ©alg. 

(5oba=^9?af)m. 

6. ^utterbrob. 

(SJcrauc^erteg 3ftinbflei jc^ . 

©racier^. ^a\e. 

8u^eg 33l^cuit. 

Salter ^affee. 



2. ajJatSbrob. 
aJiit ©c^infen belegteg 93rob. 

©ebratene ©iilapfel. 
(SieiTaf)m=^ie. 
^f(aumenjup:pe. 

3. SSutterbrob. 

^artgefottene (Ster. 
Singemac^te rott)e3f{uben. 

£ a 1 1 e 30^ i 1 1 a g § m a :§ 1 3 e i t e n f il r b e n 5B i n t e r. 

7. S3rob. 10. S3igcu{t§ mit SButter 

^atteg, gefotteneg ©(^treine^ unb |)onig. 

fleifcf). ^alte, gebatfene33o^nen .ftaltc^^ gepo!eIte§ 9Rinbfreijc| 

mit ©enf unb (£jjig. unb S^oggen^rob. 

©dimatgfrdpfd^en. 5lpfel=^le. 2;orten ton geborrten Sle^feln. 
5?alter ^affee. J^afe. 

8. |)efebigcuit unb $8utter. 

talteg |)ut)n. 
(Singemod^te ®ur!en. 
Salter 3flei§pubbiug. 

9. ^alte ©oba=^i§cuitg. 



11. S5utterbrob. 

©erauc^erter Bering. 

©ingemac^te 35o^nen. 

^ngttjerbrob. 

Slepfel. 

12. SJJai^brob mit Gutter. 



ajiit ^albfleifd) ober ©c^infen Salter 9tinb§braten mit aBei^^ 
belegteg 58rob. brob. 

©aratoga ^artoffeln. ^rob mit ^{pfelpubbing. 

aJiince ^^ie. 33rDb*Sl'ndien. 

30 



Ill 



Twelve Cold Dinners. 



COLD DICKERS POR SUMMER. 



1. Bread and butter. 

Salad of potatoes and cold 

baked fish. 

Cold boiled beet. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Apple Soup. 

2. Corn Bread. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Baked sweet apples. 

Custard pie. 

Plum Soup 

3. Bread and butter. 

Cold veal. 

Hard boiled eggs. 

Pickled beets. 

Cherry Pie. 



Chopped beef sandwiches. 

Salad of Lima Beans. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Irish Moss Lemonade. 

5. Graham bread. 

Cold roast mutton. 

Cucumbers and salt. 

Pumpkin pie. 

Soda cream. 

6. Bread and butter. 

Dried Beef. Crackers. 

Cheese. Sponge cake. 



Cold coffee. 



COLD DIITKERS FOR WIN'TER. 



7. Bread. 

Cold boiled pork. 

Cold baked beans with 

mustard and vinegar. 

Doughnuts. 

Apple pie. 

Cold coffee. 

8. Yeast biscuits and butter. 

Cold chicken. 

Pickles. 

Cold rice pudding. 

Apples. 

9, Cold soda biscuits. 

Veal and ham sandwiches, 

Saratoga potatoes. 

Mince pie. 



10, Biscuits and butter with 

honey. 

Cold corn beef and rye 

bread. 

Dried apple tarts. 

Cheese. 



11. Bread and butter. 

Smoked Herring. 

Pickled beans. 

Gingerbread. 

Apples. 

12. Corn bread and butter. 
Cold roast beef and white 

bread. 

Bread and apple pudding. 

Bread cake. 



^nijctlt$tr^rfci4jn{^* 



©cite. 

aicpfet, gial^rraertl^ 84 

^pfetpta^ 108 

atpfelpaftetc 109 

atpfetroajjer 136 

aipfetroein in %la\d)tn 136 

Sivnen, ^cal^rwcrtl^ 84 

35i5cutt^®ra^am 103 

liioba 103 

©oba 23. ill ^ubbtngen. . 108 

.^efe 97 

iBonni) "^Slabber 65 

aSoI]nenmet)[ 83 

Soljucn juppc 117 

23oI)ncn, Beaftoft 83 

33ol^nen, gef oc^t 115 

2>evbau[td)fett 77, 83 

^roteinfbvpcr 81 

mit 3roetid)cn 116 

SBreie, geid^movt 87 

ju beretteu 86 

anhnt a^enucnbung 87 

SSrob, @ral)am 97 

23evettung 95 

^.lin^ipien bei ber 236= 

reituug 91 

Dmetctte 60 

^fannfud;cn 93 

^nbhim 110 

Uebergebatf en 106 

Sftoggenbvob 97 

in 2)ampf gcfoc^t 99 

3tItbac!enc§mitS)ampf. 105 

©uppe 131 

2Serraenbungcn 105 

23ncf)roei?jen, Slnahjic 80 

^^fann!u^en 100 

23un§, etnfad) 98 

mit Dbft 99 

23uttcr, fitnftac^e 70 

©ubftttute 68 

auSgelafien 73 

asuttcrmttd), M)t (|. ©d^miev; 
ftiie.) 

f rifd) 5U ^(tcn 64 

^^iubbing 108 



©cite. 

23uttcrmild), ©nppe 133 

^scnucnbungen 64 

(Sljocotabe 134 

©uppe 133 

Sidtvegetn, 2lnnee 67 

bairiid)c 67 

ftcljcnbe 67 

fiir cine armei^amilieS, 10-13 

(Sierfpeijcn 60 

eier, 3tal)nuevt^ 39, 58 

l^artgefotten 60 

Dmctctte 60 

protein 5 

rol^ 59 

roeid)g£fod)t 59 

©ierteig f iir touppe 138 

(Sinteitung 1 

(Svbfen, gejpaCtene ju fod)en . . . 115 

^tdl^rroert^ 115 

(Si'bfenjnppe 118 

§ette in SlvmeesSiiitregetn 66 

23ebciitimg 67 

^•iinctioncn 9 

S^crbaund)fett 69 

t)cv)d)iebcne ticvg[id)en ... 70 

2}eviuenbung bdm yiodicn 70 

5-ilc^e, Iloie 57 

frifd) 56 

9Mf)mertl) 38 

■ (Ei^oiober 56 

etngcjat^cn 57 

©uppe 56 

iS-tci)(^, Slibit in ©uppe 137 

©onfum 11 

?OJetr)oben be§ £od)cn§ ... 33 

Buiammeniclntng 33 

^a^c§ roeid) jii madden.... 45 

i\-onbamin 63 

§ritd;te, gcborrte 84 

^rdpfd)cn 114 

9Jaf)nucvtlj 83 

©uppcn 135 

^^ibbingc 108 

@c(atin, @cid)id)te 33 

®emii)e, !od)cn 115 



179 



IISTDEX 



PAGE. 

Apple dumplings 109 

pie 109 

water 136 

Apples, food value of 84 

Bacon, balls in soup 128 

broiled 54 

fried 54 

with cabbage 54 

Barley, anal j'sis of 80 

to cook -- 86 

porridg-e -.. 123 

with prunes 86 

insoup - 127 

Beanflour 83 

soup... 117 

Beans, cellulose in 83 

to cook 115 

digestibility of 77, 83 

proteidin 81 

with prunes 116 

Beef, analysis of, compared, 26, 27 

baked 41 

boiled 40 

broiled 43 

cox'ned... 47 

croquettes 49 

fried in fat.. 40 

hash 48 

heart 48 

liver 47 

pie 46 

pressed 49 

re-cooked 48 

stew 40 

tripe 48 

Biscuit, graham 103 

soda 103 

soda in puddings 108 

yeast 97 

179 



PAGE. 

Bills of Fare, explanation of 143 
Class I, introduction to.. 143 

ClassI 151 

Class TI. 163 

Class III 164 

Bonny Clabber 64 

Bread, corn 97 

dressing 106 

additional facts about ... 96 

in foreign countries 16 

fritters 114 

graham 96 

making 94 

making, prinoiples in- 
volved in 91 

omelet 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding 110 

re-baked .— 106 

rye 97 

steamed 99 

stale, steamed 106 

soup 121 

uses for 105 

Buckwheat, analysis of 80 

pancakes 100 

Buns, plain 98 

fruit. 98 

Butter, artificial 70 

substitutes for 68 

to try out 71 

Buttermilk cheese (see Cot- 
tage cheese). 

to keep fresh 64 

pudding 108 

soup 123 

uses for 64 

Cake, raised 98 

Johnny 103 



3nf^aItsocr3Ct(i?mg. 



^80 



@eite. 

©emilfe, 'ytai)xmtril) 83 

mit griid^ten 116 

.Dennijd)t 116 

©uppen 117 

®er[te, %mlx)it 80 

ilod^en berjclbcn 86 

©erfteniuppe 122 

mit 3raetjd)en 86 

©etrcinfe ;^u i^^aljl^eitcn 133 

©etreibe ober £onTcrfvud)te 

2lnalt)ie 79 

itod)en 85 

©val;am Sigcutt 103 

a3rob 97 

®cmg 88 

^fanntud)en 104 

@ne§, 5^5ubbtng 108 

©uppe 121, 122 

Chafer, geaFjnoert]^ 80 

Stnalpte 80 

^aferfc^letm 135 

$fanntud;en 87 

^aferbrei 86 

l^ammelfletfd^, ^odjioetfen 52 

|)ot5fof)[e, 2}ern)enbungen.... 21, 43 

|>ul)ner, f rtcajfirt 58 

©uppe 58 

itaffec 133 

^maigfaffee 135 

^afe, ©dimierfdfe 65 

mit 33rob getod)t 61 

25erbauad)eett 30 

gonbamin 63 

^tdl^rraertl; 29 

jerrieben 62 

protein in bcmfelben.. . . 5 

SBerraenbung ini 9(it§lanb 30 

^atbjXeii'c^, Slrten bcr 3ubereit . 137 

£a(baunen, ju fod;en 48 

itavtoffeln, f oc^en 115 

^rufte 47 

Omelette 61 

©uppe 118 

^ol^tenl}^brate 6 

Quantittiten in bev 3)iat 76 

in ©peifcn entljalten 75 

2>crbau(ic^feit 77 

T^-unctionen 9 

^rapfd^en 113 

mitBrob 114 

mit 6i aufgegangen 114 



.^rdpfd)cn, mit ©oba aufgc; 

gangejt 113 

mit Obft 114 

ilud^eh, aufgegangener 99 

Sof)nni) 103 

23uttcvhid)eii 103 

evbbceveii 33utterfud)cii.. 108 

£ud;e, einvid^tung 18 

©evatl^e 19 

.Siid;c fiir ^ranfe 137 

gimonabe con istanb. 9)ioo§. . . 136 

Sinfen, ju f od^en 115 

9tdl;nDertl^ 81 

©uppe 118 

Macaroni 89 

in ber ©uppe 129 

mit ^avabicsapfern 90 

i)la{§, (2Bet)d}torn) ainatpfc. . . 80 

iBrob 97, 103 

Srei 80 

^^fannfud}en 88 

^i^one 88 

Rubbing 107 

©d;[eim 135 

©uppe 122 

mart 71 

me^(, feincS aeei^enineljt 89 

mit (Si aufgegangen 92 

mit |)efe aufgegangen. . . 94 
mit ©oba aufgegangen.. 100 

Oualitat 94 

merjtfuppen 122 

iliitd), 3tnalpfe 64 

(5ou)ert)irung 65 

foure, 2>evn)cnbung 65 

9D^ittag§maI)(jeitcn, 12 falte 177 

5)ioftfuppe 124 

?[ltun^l auce 74 

g)tuffin§ 95 

mu^ (^aff) ) 48 

9ial)ning§grunblagen, S^efini; 

tiou 4, 

gunctionen 7 

proportion in bcr S)iat.. 11 

giierenfett, ^^ubbing 112 

aiusraffen 40 

SSerraenbungen ...... 71, 72 

Defe i,um ©djmoren 41 

Omelette, (f. (Sier) 

^>arabie§dpfef, Omelette 74 

©auce 119 



180 



Index. 



PAGK. 

Cake, short 103 

short, strawberry 108 

Carbohydi-ates -- 6 

amount in diet -.. 76 

containing foods .'. 75 

digestibility of 77 

function of 9 

Cellulose 75 

inbeans. 76 

Its uses 83 

Charcoal, use of 31, 43 

Chocolate 134 

soup 133 

Cheese, cottage. 64 

cooked with bread 61 

digestibility of 30 

fondamin 63 

food value of 39 

grated 61 

proteidin 5 

use abroad 30 

Chicken, fricaseed 57 

soup 57 

Cider, bottled 136 

soup 134 

Coffee 133 

corn 135 

Corn (Indian), analysis of 80 

bread 97,103 

flour 87 

gruel 135 

mush 87 

pancakes 87, 104 

pone 88 

porridge 133 

pudding 107 

Croquettes, meat 49 

Dietary, army 66 

Bavarian 67 

standard 3, 10-13 

of poor family 13 

Dinners, Twelve Cold... 175 

Doughnuts 99 

Drinks at meals 133 

Economy, Its true scope 13 

Egg dishes 59 



PAGE. 

Eggs, food value of 39, 58 

hard boiled 50 

omelets 60 

proteidin 5 

raw 50 

soft boiled 50 

Egg sponge for soup 138 

Farina, pudding 108 

soup 131 

Fats in army dietary.. 66 

different, compared 69 

digestibility of 68 

function of 9 

importance of 67 

uses of in cooking 71 

Fish balls 57 

fresh 55 

food value of 38 

chowder 55 

salt 56 

soup 56 

Flavorings 9, 130 

Flour, fine wheat 89 

raised with egg 93 

raised with soda 100 

raised with yeast 93 

qualityof 94 

Fondamin 63 

Food Principles, definition of 4 

functions of 7 

proportion of in diet 10 

Fritters 113 

bread 114 

egg-raised 113 

soda-raised 113 

fruit 114 

Fruits, digestibility of 84 

dried 84 

fritters 114 

food value of 83 

soups 134 

puddings 108 

Gelatine, history of 33 

Graham biscuits 103 

bread 96 



3ntjaIt5Der3etd?nt^. 



X8\ 



©cite. 

^aftinafcnfuppc 119 

^paftctcnhuftc 92 

mit^ilcpfcdt 109 

■i^j^annfudjcu init tooba 87 

mitm 104 

mtt^-^cfe 99, 100, 101: 

^ftanscniialjvung, 2>cvbaulid); 

fett 77 

^^roteiuffirpcr 5 

§uncttoncn 7 

©el^att in ©peifcn 23 

pflan^[id)e 78 

^^ubbing, i3ccvcu;i^ctti) 110 

mit3)vob 110 

init23rob inib23uttcr. . . Ill 

trauucr Settt) 109 

mit Suttcvmitrf; 108 

mit (^iivva^m 110 

mit @rte§ 108 

inbifc^er 107,110 

fiir etn!,e[ne ^-)}evionen. . . Ill 

aJiiituteupubbing 107 

mit9tei§ 110 

tnit ©ago 110 

mit S^apicoa 112 

mit ©auce 112 

mit 'Dtierenfett 62 

9tei§, 2lna(i)te 80 

Kodjcii 85 

9idl)nueit]^ 79 

Dmetctte 61 

^fanufud)en 93 

5}5ubbmg 107, 110 

©d)i;cim 135 

gftinbfleijd), 2(nalp)e, a^cr; 

gtid)cu 26-27 

gebaifen 42 

gefotten 40 

gevi)ftet 42 

gcpofelt 47 

£fofc 49 

in ^-ctt gcjdjmovt 40 

mn^ 48 

- ^ers 48 

Seber 47 

^ajtete 46 

gepretn 49 

gcbdnipft 40 

aufgcfod)t 48 

talbaunen 80 

9floggen, mtl^i, 9lnalt)ic 80 

23rob 97 



©cite- 
©at^c 6 

©aitceii, ^raftbutter 73 

©auerrampterjuppe 120 

©djinfen 53 

gcri3ftet 54 

©d)in!enbri3bdjcii 54 

£ud}en 54 

ilitdjcl^en ( ©roqueteS). . 54 

©d)[eime 135 

©d)mat.^ 73 

©djinalymbeln 99 

©d)it)abcttipatj.te 74 

©d}iDciuefleii(!) mit 2tcpf«ln 56 

mit iBof)ncn 55 

^odiiueife 54,55 

^tcii^vroert^ 27 

©oba=6veme 136 

©parfamfcit, Tuivf[id)cr Sereid) 14 

©pecf, Mb\t fiir©uppe 128 

geri3i'tet 55 

gc)d}mort 55 

mit ilobt 55 

©peiiefavtcn, ertUining. 142 

eiaifei, (5;n!eituu(3.... 143 

gfafje 1 151 

efaffell 163 

6fa)ieIII 164 

©uppe, 2(nafp)c 24 

Butljaten 126 

?i-iic^iumic 56 

Obftiuppen 125 

gteifdjiuppe, ^itbcvcit . . 34 

9JHld)juppc. 122 

£rauterl'uppc 117 

SJcvroeubung iit C^uropa. 16 

%l)cc 134 

2I)ermometer 43 

3;raubcn, 3"*^ ergcbaCt 84 

SSarmebcroabvcv.. 44 

SBajfcv., 5 

aSecfcn 97 

2Seijcn 79 

%naii)ic 80 

9.Mjt, Jlod)cn 89—105 

2.^>ci"dj£ovnbvci, (.^pominp) gc^ 

fJ)movt 87 

a\>ctir) a^avcbit 62 

3d()toff, in 23olincn 75 

^i^cnuenbnngcn ........ 82 

3uder, Sonium 15 

a^al^nucrtl; 80 

3miebddfe . 98 



181 



Index, 



PAGE, 

Graham, pancakes 104 

Grains, a nalysis of 80 

cooking of. 85 

Grapes, sugar in 84 

Gruels 135 

Ham, cakes 54 

croquettes 54 

boiled 53 

broiled 54 

fried 54 

sandwiches 53 

Hash, meat 48 

Heatsaver. 44 

Hominy, fried 87 

Mushes, fried 87 

to make 86 

other uses for 87 

Introduction. 1 

Kitchen, arrangement of 18 

utensils 19 

Lard 73 

Lentils, to cook 115 

food value of 81 

soup 118 

Lemonade, Irish moss 136 

Macaroni, to cook 89 

in soup 1 129 

With tomatoes 90 

Marrow 71 

Meat balls in soup 129 

consumption of 11 

methods of cooking 33 

structure of 32 

tough, to make tender... 45 

Milk, analysis of 63 

canning 63 

sour, uses for 64 

Mintsauce 74 

Muffins 93 

Mutton, modes of cooking .. 51 

Noodles 90 

Noodle soup 91 

Oats, food value of 79 

analysis of 80 

Oatmeal gruel 135 

pancakes 86 



PAGE. 

Oatmeal, mush 86 

Omelets (see Eggs). 

Oils, for frying. 41 

Pancakes, soda 87, 103 

egg-raised 93 

yeast-raJsed 99, 100, 104 

Parsnip soup 119 

Pears, food value of 84 

Peas Split, to cook 115 

foodvaiueof 118 

Pea soup 118 

Plum soup 134 

Piecrust 92 

apple 109 

Pork and apples 55 

and beans 55 

ways of cooking 55 

foodvaiueof 27 

Potato, cooking of the 115 

crust 46 

foodvaiueof 83 

omelet 114 

soup 118 

Porridges 123 

Proteids 5 

function of 7 

containing foods 23 

vegetable 78 

Pudding, Berry Betty 110 

bread 110 

bread and butter Ill 

Brown Betty 110 

buttermilk 108 

custard 110 

farina 108 

Indian .107, 110 

individual Ill 

minute 107 

rice 110 

sago 110 

sauce .- 113 

suet 113 

tapioca 110 

Rice, analysis of 80 

foodvaiueof. 79 

to cook 85 



Index. 



182 



PAGE. 

Rice, gruel ^^ 

omelet --- ^0 

pancakes --- ^^ 

pudding 10'' ^10 

Rolls - ^J 

Rusks ^^ 

Rye flour, analj'sis of - - - «0 

bread ^^ 

Salts ---- ^ 

Sauces, drawn butter 73 

meat "^^ 

SchwabenSpetzel.- 128 

Sick, cookery for the --- 136 

Starch, in dietary 78 

digestibility of 77 

Sodia Cream 1^^ 

Sorrel soup - 1^0 

Soup , additions to 126 

analysis of 24 

fish 121 

fruit 12^ 

meat, to make 33 

milk ...-.-39,123 

use of in Europe-- 16 

vegetable H^ 

81 



PAGE. 

Sugar, consum ption of 15 

food value of - 80 

Suet pudding 112 

totryout 40 

uses of-.- 71, 73 

Tea 134 

Thermometer, use of - 43 

Tomato omelet- 61 

sauce 74 

soup - 119 

Tripe, to cook --. 48 

Veal, modes of cooking 50 

Vegetable food, digestibility 

of - - - 77 

Vegetables, cooking of 115 

food value of 83 

withfruits 116 

mixed - 116 

soups 11"^ 

Water.. - - ^ 

Wheat ---- '^9 

analysis of 80 

flour, cooking of 89-104 

Welsh rarebit 63 



THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH 
ASSOCIATION, 

Organized in 1872 by a few eminent sanitarians, has grown 
in fourteen years to be the strongest and ablest association of 
its kind in America, if not in the world, and contains in its list 
of members, physicians, lawyers, clergymen, teachers, en- 
gineers, architects, and representatives of other trades and 
professions. Its influence has been felt in the legislative halls 
of the nation, as well as in every state and territory, for the 
amelioration of sickness and suffering, and the prolongation of 
human life. 

The fourteen large and elegant volumes it has published are 
in themselves a monument to American hygiene, while their 
precepts and teachings have been felt through all ranks and 
grades of society, from the workshop to the mansion of the 
millionaire. No library is complete in its literature of sanita- 
tion without these works. 

Each member of the Association receives a copy of the 
annual volume free of expense. This work alone is worth 
more to any individual than the cost of membership. 

EXTRACT FROM CONSTITUTION, Art. III. 

The members of this Association shall be known as Active 
and Associate. The Executive Committee shall determine for 
which class a candidate shall be proposed. The Active mem- 
bers shall constitute the permanent body of the Association, 
subject to the provisions of the Constitution as to continuance 
in membership. They shall be selected with special reference 
to their acknowledged interest in or devotion to sanitary studies 
and allied sciences, and to the practical application of the 
same. The Associate members shall be elected with special 
reference to their general interest only in sanitary science, and 
shall have all the privileges and publications of the Associa- 
183 



184 American PuUic Health Association. 

tion, but shall not be entitled to vote. All members shall be 
elected as follows: 

Each candidate for admission shall first be proposed to the 
Executive Committee in writing (which may be done at any 
time), with a statement of the business or profession, and 
special qualifications, of the persons so proposed. On recom- 
mendation of a majority of the committee, and on receiving a 
vote of two thirds of the members present at a regular meeting, 
the candidate shall be declared duly elected a member of the 
Association. The annual fee of membership in either class, 
shall be five dollars. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN 
PUBLIC LIEALTH ASSOCIATIOK 

PUBLIC HEALTH : Reports and Papers of the 
American Public Health Association. Volumes 1 to 14 
inclusive and one volume to be issued annually. These vol- 
umes contain the papers presented at the annual meetings of 
the Association, with the discussions upon each, and constitute 
large and very handsome works. Each member of the Asso- 
ciation is entitled to the annual volume. A small edition is 
also placed in the hands of the treasurer for sale. At the 
present time there are but few complete sets on hand, and 
these are being rapidly taken by libraries. 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS: Their Ap- 
plication AND Use in the Prevention and Treatment 
OF Disease, and in Public and Private Sanitation, by 
the Committee on Disinfectants, appointed by the American 
Public Health Association. 

The following is the list of authors of this work: George M. 
Sternberg, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and Fellow by 
Courtesy in the Johns Hopkins University; Joseph H. Ray- 
mond, M. D., Professor of Physiology and Sanitary Science in 
Long Island College Hospital; Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., 
Ph. D., Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Univer- 
sity of Michigan, and Member of the Michigan State Board of 
Health; Charles Smart, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and 
member of the National Board of Health; George H. Rohe, 
M. D., Professor of Hygiene in the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Baltimore; Joseph Holt, M. D., President of the 
Louisiana State Board of Health; Samuel H. Durgin, M. D., 
health otficer of Boston; and J. R, Duggan, M. D. 

The original experimental investigations made by these 
specialists are of great importance and value, and render this 
work the most complete and practical volume upon disinfec- 
185 



186 American PuhUc Health. A.ssociati 



07 L 



tion and disinfectants yet published. A large amount of 
original work is devoted to the various micro-organisms, and 
in determining the value of many of the so-called disinfectants 
and germicides. The biological v^ork was conducted mostly at 
the Johns Hopkins University under the supervision of Dr. 
Sternberg, and at the University of Michigan under Dr. 
Vaughan. Various apparatus used for disinfecting purposes, 
as well as the admirable quarantine system at New Orleans, 
are fully described and illustrated. The chapter on Pto- 
maines, by Dr. Vaughan, is of great value. 

The labors and investigations of these gentlemen extended 
over a period of three years, and involved no inconsiderable 
expense. 

The work consists of two hundred and sixty -five pages, with 
sixty-eight illustrations, printed upon very heavy paper made 
especially for this volume, and is elegantly bound in handsome 
English cloth. The price has been placed at the low figure of 
two dollars per volume. Sent postpaid on receipt of price. 



LOME PRIZE ESSAYS. 

These exceedingly valuable essays, written by authors of 
great ability, and selected as the best out of many received in 
competition, by committees of award who were selected by 
the American Public Health Association, the Conference of 
State Boards of Health, and the National Board of Health, and 
whose names alone guarantee the high character of the works, 
are being placed before the public at cost, through means 
that are being furnished the American Public Health Asso- 
ciation. 

No. I. Healthy Homes and Foods for the Working-Classes. 
By Prof. Victor C. Vaughan, M. D. , Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Judges: — Dr. E. M. Moore, Pres. State Bd. of Health, Roch- 
ester, N. Y.; Dr. C. W. Chancellor, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, 
Baltimore, Md. ; Medical Director Albert L. Gihon, U. S. Navy, 
Washington, D. C; Dr. J. H. Raymond, Health Commissioner, 
Brooklyn, N. Y.; Major Charles Smart, Surgeon U. S. A., 
Washington, D. C. 

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. 

Location; the cellar; the walls; the floors; arrangement of 
rooms; the windows; heating and ventilation; water-supply; 
the disposal of waste; the surroundings; the care of the home; 
buying or renting a house; tenement-houses; foods and food 
stuffs; the nutritive value of foods; the economic value of 
foods. Am7nal foods;— geYieral properties; methods of cook- 
ing meat; milk; butter; cheese. Vegetable foods; — cereals and 
grains; flour and meal; bread; pease and beans; potatoes; 
other vegetables; starches; sugars; fruits; nuts; vegetable oils; 
condiments; tea; coffee; chocolate. 
8vo paper, 62 pp. Price 10 cts. 

Same in English-German (alternate pages in German) .15. 
187 



188 Lomh Prize Essays. 

No. 2. The Sanitary Conditions and Necessities of School- 
Houses and School-Life. By D. F. LmcoLN, M. D., 

Boston, Mass. 

Judges: — Hon, Erastus Brooks, LL. D., State Bd. of Health, 
New York; Dr. H. P. Walcott, State Bd. of Health, Lunacy, 
and Charity, Cambridge, Mass.; Dr. Granville P. Conn, Pres. 
State Bd. of Health, Concord, N. H. : John Eaton, Commis- 
sioner of Education, Washington, D C; Col. George E. War- 
ing, Jr., C. E., Newport, R. I. 

Site: dampness, the cellar, contamination of soil and air, 
drainage, foundation walls, neighborhood, etc. Plan and ar- 
rangement of the building : architecture, doors, windows, 
recitation and class-rooms, stairways, fire-escapes, etc. Ven- 
tilation and heating: amount of fresh air and cubic space re- 
quired, introduction of fresh air, carbonic acid gas exhaled, 
dimensions of ventilating apparatus, size of flues, circulation 
of air in room, ventilating by steam power, " indirect" heat- 
ing, testing atmosphere of school-room, source of air-supply, 
water-closets, ventilating-stoves, open windows, ventilators, 
etc. Sewerage: bad air dangerous to health, waste-pipes, 
traps, ventilation of traps, closets, flush-tanks, urinals, privies, 
disinfectants. Hygiene of the eye: nearsightedness, rules for 
using the eyes, location of windows, type used in school- 
books, curtains and blinds. School desks and gymnastics: 
construction of seats, physical training. Affections of the 
nervous system: competition for prizes, lack of exercise, dress. 
Contagious diseases in schools. Sanitary supervision. This 
work contains fifteen illustrations. 

8vo paper, 38 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

No. 3. Disinfection and Individual Prophylaxis against 
Infectious Diseases. By Geokge M. Sternberg, M. D., 
Major and Surgeon U. S. A. 

Judges:— Dr. S. H. Durgin, Health Oflicer, Boston, Mass. ; 
Dr. J. E. Reeves, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Wheeling, W. v a. ; 
Dr. Gustavas Devron, Pres. Aux. San. Assn., New Orleans, 



Lonih Prize Esmys IH!) 

La.; Prof. Kichard McSbeny, M. D., Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
James L. Cabell, LL. D., University of Virginia, Va. 

Disinfection ; groups of disinfectants. 

Group I.— 1. Fire; 2. Steam under pressure; 3. Boiling 
water; 4. Chloride of lime; 5. Liquor, soda chlorinatae; 6. 
Mercuric chloride. 

Group 11.-7. Dry heat; 8. Sulphur dioxide; 9. Carbolic 
acid; 10. Sulphate of copper; 11. Chloride of zinc; general 
directions for disinfection; disinfection of excreta, etc.; dis- 
infection of person; disinfection of clothing and bedding; dis- 
infection of the sick-room; disinfection of privy vaults, cess- 
pools, etc.; hospitals; disinfection of water and articles of 
food; disinfection of ships; merchandise. Individual prophy- 
laxis against infectious diseases; cholera; yellow fever; small- 
pox; scarlet fever; diphtheria; tuberculosis; typhoid fever; 
concluding remarks, etc. 

This essay is undoubtedly the best ever written in the 
English language upon the prevention of disease, and oug h 
to be placed in the hands of every family. 

8vo paper, 40 pp. Price, 5 cts. 

Same in English-German (alternate pages in German) .10. 

No. 4. The Preventable Causes of Disease, Injury, and 
Death in American Manufactories and Workshops, 
and the Best Means and Appliances for Preventing 
and Avoiding Them. By George H. Ireland, Spring- 
field, Mass. 

Judges:— Dr. E. M. Hunt, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Tren- 
ton, N. J. ; Dr. A. N. Bell, Editor Sanitarian, Kew York City; 
Major George M. Sternberg, Surgeon, U. S. A., Baltimore, 
Md.; Major John S. Billings, LL. D., U. S. A., Washington, 
D. C; Mr. W. P. Dunwoody, Secretary National Board of 
Health, Washington, D. C. 

Construction of workshops; elevators; fire-escapes; sanitary 
condition; plumbing; ventilation; sunlight; heating; lighting; 
precaution against fires; dust in factories; ice supply; handling 



190 Lomh Prize Essays. 

heavy goods; machinery; saws and moulding machines; grind- 
stones; railroading; emergencies; contagious diseases; cleanli- 
ness, facilities for workmen, etc. 

8vo paper, 20 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

The four essays, in one volume of nearly two hundred large 
octavo pages, thoroughly indexed, bound in cloth, 50 cts. 

The same printed upon extra heavy paper made especially 
for this edition, and bound in expensive brown cloth with gold 
and black finish, making an elegant and handsome volume, 
$0.75. 



If 




■fm^mm^^. 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 486 345 8 % 



^/-';:a^ei 












Presented to the 
LIBRARY of the 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 

by 

ESTATE OF THE LATE 
MARY SINCLAIR 



PRACTICAL 






ADAPTED TO 



PERSONS OF MODERATE AND SMALL MEANS 



Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel. 



THE LOME PRIZE ESSAY. 



Inscription : " The Five Food Priyiciphs, Illustrated 
by Practical Recipes." 



r 



PUBLISHED BY THE 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 
1890. 



COFYRIOBT, 1880, BT IllVlNO A. WaTSON, SECRETARY AMERICAN 

PuBuc Heal/th Association. 



nilNTKD BT K. K. AKDKSW8, ROCIIBSTKB, K. T. 




ftPR2lB66 

'TY OFJ?:^^ PREFACE, 



ioPo^^ 



Perhaps there is no better way of presenting to the 
public the facts which led to the creation of this 
valuable work, than by inserting the announcement 
which resulted in the exceedingly lively and able 
competition for the prize, as well as the merited honor 
which was certain to fall upon the successful com- 
petitor. It read as follows : 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION". 



The Lome Prize Essays. 

Two Prizes for 1888. 

Mr. Henry Lomb, of Rochester, N.Y., now well known 
to the American public as the originator of the " Lomb 
Prize Essays," offers, through the American Public 
Health Association, two prizes for the current year, on 
the following subject: 

Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 

Adapted to Persons op Moderate 

AND Small Means. 

First Prize, $500, - - - Second Prize, $200. 

Judges: Prof. Charles A. Lindsley, New Haven, 
Conn.; Prof. Greorge H. Rohc, Baltimore, Md. ; Prof. 
Victor C. Vaughan, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, Boston, Mass.; Miss Emma C. G. Poison, 
New Haven, Conn. 

Conditions : The arrangement of the essay will be left 
to the discretion of the author. They are, however, 




» 



Preface. jjl 

' expected to cover, in the broadest and most specific 
manner, methods of cooking as well as carefully pre- 
pared receipts, for three classes, — ( 1 ) those of moderate 
means; (2) those of small means; (3) those who may be 
called poor. For each of these classes, receipts for three 
meals a day for several days in succession should be 
given, each meal to meet the requirements of the body, 
and to vary as much as possible from day to day. For- 
mulas for at least twelve dinners, to be carried to the 
place of work, and mostly eaten cold, to be given. 
Healthfulness, practical arrangement, low cost, and 
palatableness should be combined considerations. The 
object of this work is for the information of the house- 
wife, to whose requirements the average cook-book is ill 
adapted, as well as to bring to her attention healthful 
and ecconomic methods and receipts. 

All essays written for the above prizes must be in the 
hands of the Secretary, Dr. Irving A. Watson, Concord, 
N. H., on or before September 15, 1888. Each essay 
must bear a motto, and have accompanying it a securely 
sealed envelope containing the author's name and ad- 
dress, with the same motto upon the outside of the 
envelope. 

After the prize essays have been determined upon, the 
enveloi)es bearing the mottoes corresiK)nding to the 
prize essays will be opened, and the awards made to the 
persons whose names are found within them. The re- 
maining envelopes, unless the corresponding essays are 
reclaimed by authors or their representatives within 
thirty days after publication of the awards, will be 
destroyed, unopened, by the Secretary, 

None of the judges will be allowed to compete for a 
prize. 

The judges will announce the awards at the Annual 
Meeting of the American Public Health Association, 
1888. 

It is intended that the above essays shall be essen- 
tially American in their character and application, and 



iv Preface. 

this will be considered by the judges as an especial 
merit. 

Competition is open to authors of any nationality, 
but all the papers must be in the English language. 

Irving A. Watson, 

Secretary. 
Concord, N. H., February, 1888. 

The above circular was extensively circulated and 
published throughout the United States and the 
Dominion of Canada, with the result of bringing to 
the Secretary, within the specified time, seventy essays 
upon the subject announced. The arrival of these 
essays covered a period of nearly five months, and 
they were forwarded to the Chairman of the Commit- 
tee of Award nearly as fast as received, thus giving 
the committee ample time for their exceedingly 
laborious work of examination. The decision of the 
judges was announced at the Sixteenth Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Public Health Association, and 
was as follows: 

Report op Committek on the Lomb Prizes. 

Your committee, to whom were referred the essays 
upon "Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 
Adapted for Persons of Moderate and Small Means," 
respectfully report that they have perused with thought- 
ful and considerate attention the three score and ten 
essays which were submitted to them. 

A few of them were presented in beautiful specimens 
of type-writing, but the great majority of them were in 
manuscript, and some of them not in the most legible 
characters, a circumstance which, it will be appreciated, 
became an important matter, when considered in con- 
nection with the large number of competitors, and the 
fact that many of their papers were each of several 
hundred pages in length. 




Preface. y 

« 

'The result of the labors of the committee is, that by 
unanimous approval, the first prize of $500 is awarded to 
the author of the essay bearing this inscription, — " The 
Five Food Principles, illustrated by Practical Recipes." 

"Your committee would further repbrt that although 
there were among the remaining sixty-nine a number of 
essays of considerable merit, there was no single one so 
prominently superior to others as to commend the ap- 
proval of the majority of your committee, nor was there 
any which did not contain someerrors of statement, which 
your committee did not feel justified in endorsing with 
the approval of this Association by the bestowal of a 
prize, or else which did not fail to meet some of the con- 
ditions upon which the prize was offered, or which was 
not otherwise objectionable because of literary defects. 

Your committee would therefore respectfully report 
that no essay was found among those submitted to them 
which they judged deserving of the second prize of $300. 

The committee consider it a duty, in awarding the 
prize, to emphasize the fact that of all the essays sub- 
mitted the one selected is not only preeminently the 
best, but that it is also intrinsically an admirable treatise 
on the subject. 

It is simple and lucid in statement, methodical in ar- 
rangement, and well adapted to the practical wants of 
the classes to which it is addressed. Whoever may read 
it can have confidence in the soundness of its teachings, 
and cannot fail to be instructed in the art of cooking by 
its plain precepts, founded as they are upon the correct 
application of the scientific principles of chemistry and 
physiology to the proper preparation of food for man. 

AH of which is respectfully submitted. 

C. A. LiNDSLKY. 

Gborqe H. Rohe. 
V. C. Vaughan. 
Ellen H. Richards. 
Emma C. G. Polson. 



vi Preface. 

The American public is to be congratulated upon 
this useful and valuable contribution to the needs of 
its great army of working people, made possible 
through the humanitarian benevolence of a private 
citizen. This vras the fifth prize offered by the same 
citizen, through the same channel, for the noble pur- 
pose of ameliorating, in some degree, the hardships 
which befall mankind in the tireless struggle for 
existence. 

That this essay may be placed in the hands of every 
family in the country, is his earnest desire as well as 
that of the Association; therefore a price barely cover- 
ing the cost has been placed upon this volume. It is 
to be hoped, that Government departments, state and 
local boards of health, sanitary and benevolent asso- 
ciations, manufacturers, employers, etc., will purchase 
editions at cost, or otherwise aid in distributing this 
work among the people. 

Although a copyright has been jjlaced upon these 
essays for legitimate protection, permission to publish 
under certain conditions, can be obtained by address- 
ing the secretary. 

We commend this volume to the public, believing 
it to be an unequaled work upon " Practical Sanitary 
and Economic Cooking, adapted to persons of mode- 
rate and small means." 

Jnrrnf c^ lH:^^oyi 

Secretary American Public Health Association. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAOB. 

Gbnerat, Introduction, 1 

The Kitchen, 18 

L Proteid-contalnino Foods (Animal Sort), and 

their Preparation, 23 

Methods of Cooking Meat, 83 

Soup Making, 33. 39 

Boiling Meat, 84, 40 

Frying in Fat, 35, 40 

Baking Meat, 35, 41 

Broiling Meat, 36, 43 

Use of Thermometer, 43 

Heat Saver 44 

To Make Meat Tender, 45 

Recipes for Cooking Meat, 46 

Beef 46 

Veal, 50 

Mutton and Lamb, 51 

Pork 52 

Fish and Fish Soups 55 

Fowl and Fowl Soups, 67 

Eggs and Egg Dishes, 58 

Cheese and Cheese Dishes, 61 

Care and Use of Milk, 63 

Sour Milk, 64 

11. Fats and Oils, 66 

Uses of Fats, 71 

Meat and Vegetable Sauces, 72 

III. The CAKBOHYDRATE-CONTAlNtNG FoODS AND THEIR 

Preparation, 75 

Grains, 79 

Sugars, 80 

Legumes, .*. 81 

Potatoes and other Vegetables, 83 

Fruits, 88 

The Cooking of Grains, 85 

Grains Cooked Whole, 85 

Cookingof Grita, 86 

Corn Flour 87 

Graham Flour 88 

Fine Wheat Flour, 89 

vii 



viii Table of Contents. 

Macaroni and Noodles, — 89 

Flour Raised with Fat, 91 

Flour Raised with Egg, 92 

Egg Pancakes, &c. 92 

Flour Raised with Carbonic Acid Gas, 93 

{a) Yeast Raised, 

White Bread, 94 

Rye and Corn Bread, ..- --. 97 

Biscuits, Rolls, &c - 97 

Yeast Pancakes, 99 

Buckwheat Flour, 100 

(6) Raised with Soda, 

Methods, - 101 

8oda Biscuits, - 102 

Uses of Biscuit Dough, &c. - 102 

Soda Corn Breads, - - 103 

Soda Pancakes, without Eggs, 103 

' Soda Pancakes, with Eggs, 104 

Uses for Bread, - - 105 

Simple Sweet r3ishes, _ 107 

Milk Puddings, 107 

Fruit Puddings, with Biscuit Dough, 108 

Fruit Puddings, with Bread, -- 109 

Custard Puddings, - - HO 

Bread and Custard Puddings, - 110 

Suet Puddings, - 112 

Pudding Sauce, - 112 

Fritters, 113 

Cooking of Vegetables, 115 

Soups, without Meat, 117 

Vegetable Soups, 117 

Flour and Bread Soups, 121 

Milk Soups or Porridges,. 122 

Fruit Soups, - 124 

Additions to Soups, 126 

Dumplings for Soups and Stews, 127 

Flavors and Seasonings, 130 

Drinks, - 133 

Cookery for the Sick, 137 

Twelve Bills op Fare — Explanation, 142 

Class I. (with letter of advice to mother of the family), 143 

Class II 163 

Class III. 164 

Twelve Cold Dinners, 176 



INTRODUCTION 



Few things are of more importance than that we 
should find ourselves physically and mentally equal to 
our day's work, but not many of us realize how largely 
this depends upon the food we eat. 

Supposing there to be just money enough in a given 
family to buy the right kind and quantity of food. 
Now if this money is not wisely expended, or if after 
the food has been bought it is spoiled in the cooking, 
the results will be very serious for the members of 
that family; they will be under-nourished and they 
will suffer in clear-headedness, bodily strength, and 
in the case of children, in bodily development. 

Surely the right condition of the body is too im- 
portant to be left to chance ; the best scientific knowl- 
edge, the best practical heads should be at its service, 
and this is the case, indeed, to a large extent in Eu- 
rope, where the food of the soldiers and of the inmates 
of public institutions is furnished more or less ac- 
cording to certain rules that have been deduced 
partly from observation, and partly from scientific 
experiment. 

The application of scientific principles on these lines 
is not of long standing, for the investigations that have 
clinched them are all of comparatively recent date. At 



2 History of Food Stuay. 

the end of the last century a beginning was made in 
France and in Germany in connection with philan- 
thropic efforts to improve the food of the poor, and it 
was at this time that Count Rumford introduced into 
the soup kitchens of Munich, the soup that has been 
named after him. From this time on interest in the 
subject of foods, both for men and domestic animals, 
steadily increased, although experimenters were con- 
stantly coming to wrong conclusions because the 
sciences of Organic Chemistry and Physiology, as far 
as they concerned the subject, were not far enough 
advanced. 

It was only in the early forties that the first ex- 
perimental agricultural stations were established, but 
so rapidly have they multiplied that they now number 
more than a hundred in Europe alone; and in these 
and in the laboratories of the great universities, 
analyses have been made of most of the foods used by 
men and animals, and also tests of the relative flesh 
and fat producing power of different foods and com- 
binations of foods. 

For years the results of these investigations have 
been applied with profit to the feeding of cattle, 
but it was a case of threatened wholesale starvation 
in England that first turned the attention of properly 
trained persons to a like study of the nourishment of 
human beings. During our civil war the condition of 
the cotton spinners in Lancashire and Cheshire, Eng- 
land, became so serious as to make government help 
necessary to keep them from starving, and in 1862 and 
1863 Dr. Edward Smith was commissioned to examine 
into the the dietetic needs of the distressed operatives. 



English Invesfigafions. 3 

In his report for 18G3 are found tables of the food con- 
sumed per week by 634 families, and in spite of the dif- 
ficulties standing in the way of such an investigation, 
the foods consumed were classified into tables showing 
the amounts of the different food principles taken 
per week by each family. 

One of the great practical results following from 
this investigation was the determination of the mini- 
mnm amount of each nutritive principle which men, 
women and children need, to keep them in fair health. 
The amount of food with which an unemployed man 
can fight off starvation, and the diseases temporarily 
incident to it, was found to be represented in 35 ounces 
of good bread per day, and the necessary amount of 
wholesome water. 

Since the publication of Dr. Smith's report similar 
inquiries have been instituted by the scientists of other 
countries, and many analyses have been made of 
the exact amount and kinds of food eaten by various 
classes of laborers under the most varied conditions. 
Professors Voit and Pettenkofer of Munich have even 
accounted for every particle of food that passed 
through the body of a man, both while he was at work 
and while he was idle. They have also noted how 
much of his own body was consumed when he ate 
nothing. Finally, a great number of averages have 
been taken and so-called " standard dietaries" con- 
structed, by which is meant the average amount of 
each of the chief food principles that keep an average 
muscle-worker in good condition, when doing aver- 
age work. 

Every one will admit that it is of great importance 



4 AjjpUcations to tJie Household. 

for the farmer to know in what proportion he shall 
lay in hay and other food for the winter feeding of 
his stock; the animals must thrive, but there must 
be no waste by furnishing food in the wrong quanti- 
ties or proportions. 

For the housewife, the food question in its relation 
to her family can be stated in the very same words. 
It is important that she should economize, but her 
path will be full of pitfalls if she does not understand 
in what true economy consists. Most people with a 
real interest in this subject, have had at some period 
of their lives certain pet theories as to food. Per- 
haps they have been at one time convinced that most 
people ate too much, at another, that meat was the 
all strengthener, or they may have been afflicted 
with the vegetarian fad, and whatever their special 
views have been they have thought that they rested 
them upon facts. But surely they would never have 
jDinned their faith to one-sided diets if they had 
rightly comprehended the main facts of nutrition. 
We believe that if tli^se facts as at present interpreted, 
and the world's experience in applying them, can be 
put at the command of the housewife, she can use 
them to great profit. 

We have employed the term "food principles"; 
what do we mean by it ? Everyone knows what is 
meant by a food, as meat or bread, and everyone 
knows that the food offered us by our butchers and 
grocers comes from the animal and vegetable king- 
doms. The oxygen we breathe and the water we 
drink nature furnishes for us directly, so to speak, 
though unfortunately for many of us, and especially 



Food Principles. 5 

^or young children, the former is not thought of as a 
food. Oxygen aside, it has been found by those who 
have studied the matter, that all foods contain one or 
more of five classes of constituents, called ** nutritive 
ingredients" or "food principles." These five prin- 
ciples are: 

(1) Water. 

(2) Proteids. 

(3) Fats. 

(4) Carbohydrates. 

( 5 ) Salts or mineral constituents. 



WATEK. 

It is important to note that our bodies when full- 
grown are two-thirds water, and that our food con- 
tains from 1 to 9-ij^ of it. Considering the scope of 
this essay, it must be left to take care of itself as a 
food. 

PROTEIDS. 

A class of nearly allied bodies is included under 
this head. The whole class i/ sometimes called 
"Albumens." 

The housewife is familiar with proteids in such 
foods as the lean of meat, in eggs and cheese. These 
contain the principle in various proportions ; for 
example. 

Lean of meat has . . . 15-21 ^ 

Eggs in both white and yolk - - 12.5j^ 

Fresh cows' milk on an average - - 3Afi 

Cheese 25-30 ^ 

Dried Codfish 30 «^ 



6 Food Principles. 

Vegetables are more deficient in proteids though 
the grains and legumes contain much of it. 

Wheat flour has - - - 10 to 12 ^ 
Peas, beans and Lentils have 22.85 to 27.7^ 

In fresh vegetables we find only from ^} to 3^, 
excepting green peas and beans in which the proteids 
reach 5 to 6.5^. 

FATS. 

Fats are obtained from both the animal and veg- 
etable kingdoms. Those used by us in cookery come 
mostly from animals, and are known to the house- 
wife as butter, lard and tallow. Vegetable food as a 
rule, is very poor in fats, containing from to 3^ 
only. 

Some of the cereals, like corn and oats contain 
from 4 to 7^ of fats. 

CAKBOHYDRATES. 

The bodies classed as "carbohydrates" are found 
mainly in vegetables. The housekeeper knows them 
as starches and sugars. 

Under the starches proper are included such 
things as the starches of grains and seeds, Iceland 
moss, gums and dextrin. 

Milk is one of the few animal products that has 
more than a very small quantity of carbohydrates. 
It contains on the average about 4.8^ of this prin- 
ciple ; — slightly more than of either proteids or fats. 

SALTS. 

The things that give hardness to our bones, like 






Fu?ictions of Food Priticiples. 



calcium phosphate, and the common salt with which 
we flavor our food, illustrate this class. 

PUNCnONS OF FOOD PRINCIPLES. 

To know in what proportion these food principles 
should be represented in our diet, we must inquire 
into the part played by each of them in the body. The 
first and the last principle may be dismissed briefly. 
The former, water, is the great medium which floats 
things through the body ; the latter, salts, are com- 
bined in various ways with the solids and fluids of 
our foods, and we shall not easily suffer from lack of 
them. 

The other three food principles (let us call them in 
the following pages the three great food principles), 
cannot be so summarily dealt with. We might say, 
briefly and dogmatically, that the proteids are " flesh 
foods," the fats are *'heat foods," the carbohydrates 
*' work foods." To be sure, experimenters are agreed 
on the main points, but the different schools are still 
at war on the final explanations and on many details, 
and it has become more and more evident that we 
cannot portion off the work of the body in this sim- 
ple style. Though each of the three great food prin- 
ciples can be said to have a favorite part which it 
plays better than any other, yet we find that like an 
actor of varied talents, it has more than one r61e in 
its repertoire. 

FUNCTION OP PROTEIDS. 

That this class is indispensable we have the best 
of proofs. It must be given us in one or another of its 



1^ 



8 Function of Proteids. 

forms, for, even if we are not athletes, nearly one half 
of our body is made up of muscle which is one fifth 
proteid, and the nitrogen in this proteid can only be 
furnished by proteid again, since neither fats nor car- 
bohydrates contain any of it ; therefore in making up 
bills of fare, let us remember that growing and working 
proteid, yes, even idle proteid as Dr. Smith found, 
needs proteid, and that there is nothing in any of 
the other food principles that can entirely take its 
place. 

Though we think of proteid mostly as a great body 
builder and restorer, it can also to some extent fur- 
nish fat when it stands in a certain relation to the 
fats and carbohydrates of our food, and we are assured 
by experimenters that it also furnishes heat and mus- 
cle energy under certain conditions. 

In these last two activities, however, it is far ex- 
celled by fats and carbohydrates. We shall therefore 
think of it as the nitrogen-furnisher of our tissues, 
and also as the grand stimulant among foods, incit- 
ing the body, as it does, to burn up more of other 
kinds. 

Scientists, at one time, held the opinion that our 
muscle energy comes chiefly from proteids. This view 
has been abandoned, but many a working man still 
believes that meat is the only kind of food that is of 
any account; he thinks of fats and starches as quite 
unimportant comparatively. Now it has been proved 
over and over again, that we can combine meat with 
fats and vegetable food in such a proportion that it 
shall play only its main role, viz., that of building 
and restoring, while these latter furnish the heat and 



V 




Punction of Fats and Carbohydrates. 9 

muscle energy needed. Proteid food is such a costly 
article that it will not do to put it at work which 
cheaper material can do even better. 

FDNCTIOlf OF FATS. 

The fats also have more than one office in the body. 
They can be stored as body fat, or they can be burned 
and give off heat, and they may also serve as a source 
of muscular energy, in an indirect manner at least. 

FUNCTIOK OF CARBOHYDRATES. 

The Carbohydrate principle furnishes fat to our 
tissues, and is a source of heat and muscle energy, 
indeed the chief source of muscle energy in all ordi- 
nary diets. 

FLAVORINGS. 

So far we have had cliiefly in mind the real work- 
ing constituents of food, if we may so speak. But 
many things cannot be studied or classified in the 
above way; they must be looked at from another 
point of view. 

Thus, a pinch of pepper, a cup of coffee, a fine, 
juicy strawberry, — what of these? They may con- 
tain all five of the food principles, but who cares for 
the proteid action or carbohydrate effect of his cup 
of good coffee at breakfast, or what interest for us 
has the heating effect of the volatile oil to which the 
strawberry owes a part of its delicious taste? 

Surely the economical housekeeper who would 
throw out of the list of necessaries all the things that 
tickle the palate, that rouse the sense of smell, that 



10 Flavorings. 

please the eye and stimulate our tired nerves, just 
because these things contain but little food, would 
make a grave mistake. She may know Just what cuts 
of meat to buy, what vegetables are most healthful 
and economical, but if she does not understand how 
to "make the mouth water," her labor is largely lost. 
Especially if she has but little money, should she pay 
great attention to this subject, for it is the only way 
to induce the body to take up plain food with relish. 
The list of these spices, flavors, harmless drinks 
and the like, is a long one. Unfortunately, we have 
no comprehensive word that will include everything 
of the sort, from a sprig of parsley to a cup of coffee; 
the German calls them *' Genuss-mittel " — " pleasure- 
giving things." 

PROPORTIONS AND AMOUNTS OF FOOD PRINCIPLES. 

We have brought our discussion of the three great 
food principles to the point where we can enquire in 
what proportions and amounts these should be repre- 
sented in our diet. 

The standard daily dietary that is most frequently 
cited, and which, perhaps, best represents the food 
consumption of the average European workman in 
towns, is that proposed by Prof. Voit. This dietary 
was made upon the basis of a large number of ob- 
served cases. It demands for a man of average size, 
engaged in average manual labor, 

Proteids.* Fats. Carbohydrates. 

118 gms. 56 gms. 500 gms. 

Now it is the opinion of all competent judges, that 

*38. 84 grams. = 1 oz. 




standard Dietaries. 



11 



at least one third of this proteid should come from 
the animal kingdom, and this one third, if given in 
the form of fresh beef, would be represented by 230 
grams of butcher's meat, calculated to consist of 
Bone and tendon, - - - -18 gms. 

Fat, 21 *' 

Lean, 191 ** 

When we take whole populations into account, we 
find that little, if any, more meat tlian this falls to 
each person per day. Thus the average consumption 
per day for three great cities is given as follows; 
Berlin, - . - - 135 gms. per cap. 
New York, - - - - 226 " *' " 
London, - - - - 274 '* " " 
Of course these averages include children, but they 
also include great numbers of the well-to-do, who eat 
much more meat than their bodies need. 

We will add a few more examples of dietaries, 
some of which are used by the writer in making out 
the bills of fare given in this essay. 
Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 



gms. 
145 

VIO 



gms. 
100 

56 

150 

125 

60 

50 



gms. 
450 

500 

500 

450 

400 

320 



Proposed by Prof. Voit for 
a man at bard work. 

Allowed to German soldiers 
in garrison. 

Proposed by Prof. Alwater 
for American at hard work. 

By the same for American 
at moderate work. 

Proposed by Prof. Voit for 
a woman. 

By the same for children 
from 7 to 15 years. 



13 Standard Dietaries. 

We will give an instance of how much below these 
figures the amount consumed sometimes falls. 

Prof. Boehm found that a poor North German 
family, consisting of a man, wife and a child five 
years old, had in one week for their food : 

Potatoes, 41 lbs. 

Eye flour, 2| lbs. 

Meat, If lbs. 

Eice, - - -- - - -^Ib. 

Eye Bread, 12 lbs. 

A very little milk. 

Calculating the food principles contained in these 
amounts, we find that the three individuals daily 
consumed of: 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 

175.5 gms. 41 gms. 1251. gms. 

It needs no comment to show how insufficient is 
this dietary in amount, and how incorrect in pro- 
portion. 

We have selected Prof. Atwater's dietary for a man 
at moderate manual labor as the basis of our twelve 
bills of fare and have taken Voit's standard for women 
and children. 

Our climate is more trying and our people work 
faster, and we shall do well to allow more fat and meat 
to our working-man than the foreign dietaries provide. 
If our man is to get daily one-third of his proteid 
in the form of animal food, this would be represented 
by 8 ozs. of butcher's meat (without bone), by from 
5 to 5.8 ozs. cheese, or by 8 eggs. 



1^ 

mm WpIv 



American Needs. 13 



I 




We believe that it is better to go a little liigli rather 
than too low with proteid food. As a rule, people 
who eat enough porteids, and especially enough animal 
food, are vigorous and have what we call "stamina," 
and doctors incline to the belief that such people 
resist disease better because their blood and tissue are 
less watery than in the case of people who draw their 
proteids almost entirely from such vegetables as potii- 
toes. But many workingmen in America would be 
surprised to learn how well health and strength can 
I M' maintained on what is, after all, not such a very 
large amount of meat, provided the rest of the dietary 
contain? enough vegetable proteid and fat. 

PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS. 

It now remains for us to see whether the economist 
can get practical help from the foregoing facts about 
the character of foods and the use that is made of 
them in the body. 

We have seen that we cannot economize in the 
amount of our food beyond certain limits and yet re- 
main healthy and strong ; also that we must not 
greatly alter the relative proportions in which expe- 
rience has shown that these foods are best combined. 
The true field of household economy has, then, 
certain prescribed limits. 

Its scope lies, 1st. In furnishing a certain food 
principle in its cheap rather than its dear form; 
for example, the proteid of beef instead of that of 
chicken, fat of meat instead of butter. 2nd. Hav- 
ing bought foods wisely, in cooking them in such a 
manner as to bring out their full nutritive value; for 



14 Scojm of the Economist. 

instance, making a roast juicy and delicious instead 
of dry and tasteless. 3d. In learning how to use 
every scrap of food to advantage, as in soup making, 
and 4th, if we add to these the art of so flavoring and 
varying as to make simple materials relish, we have 
covered the whole field of the household economist, 
so far as the food question is concerned. 

We hope she will find help in the following pages, 
for it will be part of our task in this essay to examine 
different articles of food as to their nutritive value, and 
to recommend such combinations and such methods of 
cooking as will make the utmost out of a certain sum 
of money. As to foods, we have in America a large 
range of choice; staple raw products cost less generally 
than they do in Europe and the laboring man here 
has somewhat more money to buy with. The anxious 
provider, who must feed many mouths on what seems 
an insufiicient sum, may feel assured that he can, 
without doubt, learn to do better than he now does. 
In this line we must not disdain to learn lessons 
wherever we can. 

There is an unfortunate prejudice among us against 
learning of foreign countries. The American work- 
man says indignantly that he does not want to learn 
how to live on *' starvation wages." But the facts, 
viewed coolly, are just these : the inhabi tants of older 
countries have learned some lessons that we too 
must soon learn whether we will or no, and to profit 
by these lessons before we are really obliged to, will 
in no way lower wages, it will simply help us to get 
more comfort and pleasure out of our money. 

Students of economy, political and domestic, find 



Lessons from ForeKjn Connin'es. 16 

no better school than the experience of older 
countries, and constantly draw lessons from their 
greater thrift and economy in living. Mrs. Helen 
Campbell found, among the poor sewing women of 
New York, that none were skillful in cooking their 
scjuity food excepting only the German and Swiss 
women. All observing travelers unanimously give 
• this testimony, — *'If our American workman knew 
liow to make as much of his large wage as the for- 
eigner does of his small one, he could live in luxury.'* 

But you ask, what are the special lessons to be 
learned of the foreign housewife? We answer, chiefly 
self-denial and saving. Do not give up in despair 
because you have a small income and resign yourself 
to living meanly, in a hand to mouth fashion. Dili- 
gent study of the question and resolute abstention from 
luxuries will solve the problem, if it can be solved. 

We indulge ourselves and our children too much 
in what tastes good, while all the time we know we have 
not money enough to buy necessaries. For instance, 
the consumption of sugar in America was in 1887, 56 
lbs. per head, in Germany hardly more than one third 
that amount. This means a larger consumption of 
sweetmeats than we can afford and at the same time 
be well fed otherwise. 

We seem, in general, to spend too much money in 
our country on food compared with what we use in 
other directions; one great trouble is that we do not 
know how to save every scrap of food and use it 
again in some form. For one thing, we have yet to 
learn the great art of soup making, — and it seems 
also, of soup eating. 




iG Soups. 

The American housekeeper would say to me: " This 
is nothing new, for years we've been hearing about 
soups. We don't like soups! '^ I only ask, " have you 
tried them for a considerable length of time, so that 
you have become skilled in making them, and your 
family used to their taste?" One fact alone ought 
to insure for them a good trial; that at least three 
nations, the French, German and Italian, make daily 
use of them and have for generations. To take jjart 
of our food in this form is an absolute necessity if we 
are to do the best possible with a certain amount of 
money. 

PKACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 

The practical difficulties in the way of improve- 
ment in household cookery are not small. As cook, 
we have the wife and mother, who has too little time 
for this very important branch of household work; 
she has had, perhaps, no good training in the art 
of cookery (for it is an art), and besides, her 
kitchen and kitchen utensils are not at all what 
they should be. Indeed, the qualifications for a given 
task could not well be further from the ideal. 

In Europe families of small means have many 
helps unknown to us. In the first place, bread is 
never baked at home, the bakers' bread being both 
excellent and cheap. It would seem that among us, 
bakers' bread must shortly improve in quality and 
decrease in price ; either the profits must be too 
large, or the business not well managed. For 
instance, in those parts of Germany where white 
bread is eaten as a staple, it costs a trifle over 3 




TJie Foreign Housekeeper. 17 

cents a jwund, while flour of average quality costs 
about the same. In contrast with this, compare the 
prices of bread and flour in our own country where 
in no large city is bread quoted at less tlum 7 cents, 
while flour costs 3 cents. That is, bread costs in Ger- 
many about the same as flour and in America more 
than twice as much; and yet the German baker is no- 
tably a prosperous person ! 

The foreign housekeeper has still further help from 
the baker. If she makes a cake or pie, she sends it 
out to be baked, and pays from one to two cents 
(the fuel would have cost more); joints of meat and 
mixed dishes are also sent to be baked for the same 
price; and before any bakeshop in a German city, at 
noon on Sunday, can be seen a line of servant girls, 
each in turn receiving a steaming dish as it is taken 
from the oven. The soup kitchens ( Yolks Kuchen ) 
of various grades are also a great help. The writer 
has repeatedly had brought from one of them an excel- 
lent meat broth ( 1 pt. for 2 cents ), and good cooked 
vegetables are furnished for a price less than they 
could be cooked for at home, if one took any account 
of time and fire. 

But such helps are not yet to any great extent 
available to the American woman; she must wrestle 
with her own problem at home and solve it as best 
she can. 

2 



THE KITCHEK 



The kitchen of a woman of average means is not 
the ideal kitchen. It is perhaps too small or not 
light enough, or it may have still more serious defects, 
as a bad drain. We must take it as it is, however, 
requiring only that it contain what is necessary to 
the end we have in view, — plain cooking for a fam- 
ily of six. 

In the cheaper city dwellings the 

Size of Kitchen. , ., , . n , n « i 

kitchen is small, too small tor good 
ventilation, and for the heavier kinds of work as 
washing; but for cooking, a very small kitchen can 
be so arranged as to answer every purpose. 

Any one who has seen a ship's kitchen can under- 
stand this. The cook as he stands before his range 
is within reach of all his stores, for rows of drawers 
and shelves literally line the walls from floor to ceil- 
ing, little tables for pastry or cake making are 
drawn out of the wall and pushed in again when not 
wanted, and every inch of floor and wall space is used 
to the best advantage. This cook would tell you that 
he did not want a larger kitchen ; he would only lose 
time running about in it. 

Begin to utilize the wall space. If 

Arrangement. , , , i , 

you have not yet as many shelves as 
the walls will accommodate, put up more, and espe- 

18 



I 




Arrangement of Kitchen. 19 

ciully about and above the stove, so that as you stand 
at your cooking you can reach salt, pepper and every 
other flavor that can be used in a soup or stew; cook- 
ing spoons and forks and knives, potlids and holders 
— all these should be at your hand. Let a carpenter 
fasten into the mortared wall strips of wood that will 
hold nails and a few shelves, and if the stove is in a 
niche with wall on two or even three sides of it, all 
tlie better. On these nails should hang nearly every 
implement used in cooking, and on the shelves should 
be found all spices and flavors; farther back can be 
placed what is more seldom used. If there are no 
drawers, never mind, use close tin boxes for as many 
things as you can; if no closed cupboard for your 
dishes, hang a curtain before the ojKjn shelves. 

The nearer your sink is to the stove the better, 
that is the path your feet must oftenest travel. 
There must be a table of some sort very near the 
stove; if it is a movable one, all the better, or it 
may be « broad shelf with a very strong and safe 
hinged support under it, letting down when not in 
use. 

I take for granted that the main part of your work 
is to be done on this stove and table, and that a well 
stocked pantry, fitted out for the making of pastry 
and cake and elaborate dishes, is not within your reach 
any more than the time for making such. 

The utensils you need are few, but 
these few you must have. Consider 
the value of the food materials that you use; a few 
burns on an old sauce pan will quite buy a new one. 
We will speak only of the most important and abso- 
lutely necessary utensils. 



20 Utensils. 

First, do not use tin ; it is cheap, but coal is not, 
and you will waste a great deal of coal in trying to 
cook in tin. Brass and copper cooking vessels are to 
be avoided by one who must economize, as they are 
expensive and require too much care to keep them 
free from the poisonous verdigris. 

Of chief importance among your utensils is a flat 
bottomed iron pot with close fitting iron lid. Get 
the smoothest and best, even if it cost double. In 
this you will roast meat with little fire, cook vege- 
tables, all but peas and beans, cook anything indeed 
that is not acid. Have two of these, if you can, of 
different sizes. Next, an iron frying pan, also of 
the smoothest wrought iron and light; this too 
should have a close fitting cover. Some people con- 
sider iron utensils heavy and old fashioned, but where 
economy is an object, no other ware is so good and 
satisfactory. The blue or grey enamelled ware is very 
nice but will not stand great heat and easily chips 
and cracks, but you should have one kettle of this 
ware as it is valuable for cooking fruit and Anything 
acid. You must have a wire gridiron for toasting 
bread and broiling meat ; this you should use for 
many things which you now cook in the frying pan. 
The tea-kettle is a matter of course, and a griddle. 
There is one other utensil not as common, but which 
deserves to be, viz., a steamer; a simple pot with 
perforated bottom which wall fit tightly into the top 
of the iron pot, and have a very tightly fitting cover. 
Its use will be discussed later. 

You can hardly do without a number of earthen 
jugs, glazed with lead-free enamel, especially for 




Fuel. 21 

cooking and holding milk. Get also a number of 
wooden spoons; they are cheap an(J clean, and of con- 
venient shape for stirring. The old fashioned pud- 
ding stick of the Yankee kitchen is the earliest form 
among us, and many people know no other. 

A good stove is of first importance in a 
***■ kitchen, but fortunately good stoves have 
become common. A graver question, however, is the 
cost of fuel to be burned in them. Of course coal 
must be the stand-by, and when the stove is heated 
up as on ironing and baking days, care can be tiiken 
to use the fire to its fullest capacity; in winter, 
dishes can be cooked ahead for several days. 

To cook a single dish or for boiling a tea- 
kettle a coal oil stove is a saving; it is also 
invaluable for keeping a pot at a simmering heat, — a 
thing very difficult to accomplish on a stove. 

For the same purpose, and for any steady 
cooking, and above all for broiling meat, every 
housekeeper ought to have appliances for burning 
charcoal; it only needs a grating with a rim 2 or 3 
inches high, to let down into the stove hole (a sort of 
deep spider with a grated bottom). For such pur- 
poses, a bushel of hard wood charcoal costing 15 or 
20 cents would last a long time. Charcoal is almost 
the only fuel used in Paris for cooking; indeed, 
throughout France and in Western Germany it is in 
very common use. 

For "Cooking Safe'* as a saver of 

" Cooking Safe." , , , f 

fuel, see page 44. 



PROTErX>-CO:N'TAI^I]:^G FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We liave already in the Introduction called atten- 
tion to the importance of this food principle. It is 
well for us to bear in mind that there are three great, 
classes of Proteids, Albumens proper. Caseins, and 
and Fibrins, and that in both plants and animals are 
found representatives of these three classes. Thus, 
in plant juices and in eggs we have things belonging 
to the Albumen class; in the curd of sour milk and 
in the legumine of the pod-covered plants we have 
examples of caseins; and in the gluten of grains and 
in the clot whipped out of blood we have examples 
of fibrins. 

ANIMAL FOODS. 

Our animal foods contain some other things that 
the housewife ranks with proteids and we have a few 
words to say about one of them, viz., gelatine, that 
nitrogenous substance boiled out of bones and car- 
tilage. 

In the history of foods this gelatine, 

Grelatine, Hist, of ,., j^ ^ - i i j i. 

like meat extract, has played a great 
part. Before the real functions of the food princi- 
ples were understood it was thought that what could 
be extracted by water from a piece of meat comprised 
all in it that was of value to the body; and so ithap- 

32 



Gelaline, 23 

pened that for more than a hundred years after Papin 
had discovered the method of extracting all the gel- 
atine out of bones (which he did by the aid of that 
contrivance still known in kitchens as the "Papin 
Soup Digester ") gelatine was considered to "be one of 
the most, if not the most nourishing constituent of 
meats. In the last decade of the 18th century, and 
in the early part of this the French made great use 
of gelatine under the impression that it was a proteid 
because it yielded nitrogen to the chemist. Improved 
methods of extracting it were invented, and so gen- 
eral did its use become, especially in the public insti- 
tutions of Paris, that from 1829-38, two and three 
quarters million portions of bone-gelatine soup were 
dealt out to the inmates of a single hospital. But in 
spite of the opinions of eminent scientists that gela- 
tine soups and gelatine tablets were a perfect substi- 
tute for proteids, their consumption decreased; physi- 
cians again took hold of the subject, and by the 
middle of the century opinion had so changed that 
nearly all, if not all, food value was denied to them. 
Modern exj>erimentation based on more rational meth- 
ods has put gelatine in its right place. It is a food, just 
as much so as is fat, but like fat it cannot play the 
r61e of proteid although a certain amount taken with 
fats and carbohydrates will enable the body to get 
along with a little less proteid. It is even said by 
Prof. Voit to excel fat in its ability to do half duty 
for proteid material. 

We have thought it well to speak of this because 
of a sort of superstitious regard in the kitchen for 
"stock," a survival^ one would think, of Papin's time. 



24 Ext)' actives. 

A good German housewife was wont to discourse to 
the writer on the economical virtues of a certain 
" Frau Doctor" who "always boiled her bones three 
times " and dwellers in many a household have had 
their nostrils assailed by the smell of glue, during 
the sixth hour of bone boiling. 

But if the importance of gelatine was and is still 
exaggerated, this is still more true of the other parts 
of meat that can be extracted by water, 
soi; Albumen and We have seen that hot water coag- 

Extractives. ulates protcid, and once coagulated, 
it will not dissolve in water, and for this reason the 
soup generally contains of this valuable principle only 
the soluble albumen which rose as scum. If the cook 
has skimmed this off, the soup which she calls strong 
is strong with flavors rather than with nutritive princi- 
ples. 

To show how very little real food a good tasting 
meat soup may contain, we will give an analysis made 
by Prof. Konig. 

He took 1 lb. of beef and about G^ 

Analysis of Soup. . , , i , ^ i j^i ^ 

oz. 01 veal bones, and treated them, he 
says, as is usually done in the kitchen to get a pint 
of good strong soup or bouillon. This contained 

Proteids, Fat, Extractives, Salts. 

1.19^ 1.48^ 1.83^ .32^ 

But where are the albumens that were in the meat 
to begin with ? Many of them are still there in that 
stringy, sodden mass, the "soup meat," which the 
cook tells us contains no further value. It consists 
of cooked connective tissue and albumen: now these 



% 



Konig's Analysis of Soup. 25 



foods and they must be rescued from the garbage 
barrel, for with the help of the chopping knife and 
the herb bag we can make them ptill do proteid duty 
in our bodies. ^ 

Real importance ^ WO do not Overvalue either tne 
of Soup. gelatine or the flavoring matters in our 
meat soups, nor throw away the meat out of which 
they are made, we shall begin to make soups on the 
right basis, that is an understanding of the real value 
of the materials we are working with, and we shall use 
meat for our soups less often than we now do perhaps, 
considering its high price and our greater need of it 
cooked in other ways. Soups should not be regarded 
as a luxury, neither as the last resort of poverty, but 
as a necessary part of a dinner, just as they are now 
used by all classes in Europe; but they need not be 
made of good cuts of meat, nor indeed, of meat at all. 
Proteid as we ^^ ^j^^ iiow direct our attention to 

buy it. the proteid as we buy it. 

We cannot here take up the chemical composition 
and exact nutritive value of every kind of meat to be 
bought at the butcher's stall, the fish market and the 
poultry stand. But we must note a few points of 
importance. 

We know that butchers* meat con- 
tains from 50ji^ to KS^ of water, accord- 
ing to the quality of the piece and the kind of animal. 
Most people in buying meat think first of the *ed 
l)art ; they may know that it is advantageous to buy 
meat that is streaked with fat, but they hardly realize 
how wise it is to do so. As a rule, fat takes the place 
of water. Let us consult tables of analyses for the 
3 




26 Analysis of Meats. 

amounts of water, proteids and nitrogenous extrac- 
tives, fats and salts contained in lean pieces and in 
pieces streaked with fat. In Prof. Konig's valuable 
treatise on Foods we find such analyses, carefully col- 
lected and sifted out of a large amount of material; 
Prof. KOaig's An- samjoles of ucck, tenderloin, shoul- 
aiyses of Meat. cler, hind-quarter and so on, just as 
bought at the butchers', were analyzed after being 
freed from adherent himp fat, and the average com- 
position of all the different cuts was as follows: — 



Fat and lean ox 
compared. 


Water 

% 


Nitrogenous 
Substances 

% 


Fat 


From a very fat ox 


55.42 


17.19 


26.38 


From a medium fat ox 


72.25 


20.91 


5.19 


From a lean ox 


76.71 


20.78 


1.50 



These tables illustrate how wise it is to buy meat 
from a very fat animal. They show that a pound of 
meat from a fat ox may have more than 20^ less 
water than a corresponding piece from a lean one; of 
course such a piece may contain from 3 to 4^ less 
proteid, but to compensate for this, it will have 25^ 
more fat. 

Let us give another table which illustrates that 
pieces like tenderloin are not the richest in proteids 
and fats, though they do have the finest flavor. It 
may help to console those whose purses do not allow 
them to buy these expensive cuts. 



Different Cuts Compared. ^ 27 

Dif. partofox WAtf^r Nitrogenous p, . 

compared ^ ■ Substances **^ 

% % % 

Neck 73.5 19.5 5.8 

Shoulder 50.5 14.5 34. 

Tenderloin 63.4 18.8 16.7 

Hind-quarter 55.05 30.81 23.32 

In this case the difference between shoulder and 
tenderloin as to the amount of water contained in 
each is striking. In the case of medium fat and lean 
animals, poor and good pieces approach each other 
more nearly in composition. 

We regret that the scope of this essay will not allow 
us to give drawings and full illustrations of the dif- 
ferent parts of an animal, with advice in detail as to 
what to buy. We are glad to mention in this connec- 
tion a former prize essay — "Healthy Homes and 
Foods for the Working Classes " — which gives much 
information needed by the housekeeper as to the 
qualities and comparative value of the meat from dif- 
ferent animals, of milk and milk products. 
Some meats com- Of butchers' meat beef must always 
v«xeA. be considered the most economical, its 
choice being governed by facts just stated. Fat mut- 
ton also ranks high. 

Pork. Say what we may against 
pork, it is a most valuable kind of 
meat, especially for the poor man, and the laws gov- 
erning its slaughter and sale should be so stringent 
as to protect him. The great importance of salt pork 
and bacon we have considered under "Fats." 

It is of little use to give rules about buying this 
meat ; wo must generally take what the butcher fur- 



28 Fish. 

nishes, but at least we can cook it well, never eating 
it raw even when well dried and smoked. 

Fish. From the standpoint of the 
economist fish is worthy of especial 
mention; nature does the feeding, we have only to 
pay for the catching. In the season when it is best 
and cheapest, fresh fish should be used freely. We 
have only to remind the housewife that she loses ^ to 
^ of the weight of a fish in bones and head. 
Salted and smoked Salted and smoked fish is of great 
fish. importance as food, and not alone for 

people living on the sea-coast. Salted cod contains, 
according to Konig's tables, 30^ of Proteids, and this 
fact, together with its low price, fully justifies its 
popularity with all economical people; 

Other salted and preserved fish, as for instance, the 
herring, give variety in the diet of many a poor family. 

LIVER, HEART, ETC. 

Internal Organs. Qf the internal organs of animals gen- 
erally considered eatable, we really appreciate only the 
liver. The lungs, brains, kidneys, heart, and the 
stomach prepared as tripe, are good food and they are 
often sold very cheap in country towns. The head of 
most animals, as of the calf, is excellent for soups and 
other dishes, and in the country it is often given away. 

EGGS. 

Eggs compared To get an idea of the comparative 

with meats as -, , pit, 

a food. value of eggs as a food let us compare 
them with medium fat beef. 

Water Proteids Fat 

% % % 

Medium fat beef has.- 72.5 21. 5.5 

Eggs have 74.5 12.5 12. 



Eggs. 



29 



We see that while the water is nearly the same in 
both, the meat has the advantage in proteids and the 
eggs the advantage in fat, this fat, moreover, being 
of very fine quality. 

Take eggs at their cheapest, as in April when they 
often sell at 15 cents a dozen, that would be 12^ cents 
a pound, 10 eggs of average size weighing a pound. 
They could then be considered cheaper than the high- 
est priced cuts of meat, but still much dearer than 
the cheaper parts, flank, neck and brisket, at 8 cents. 
So that even at this low price, they are somewhat of 
a luxury to the man who must get his proteid and fat 
in their cheapest form. 

And when we consider that only for a short time 
in the year is the price so low, — eggs being on an 
average quoted at 25 to 30 cents, the showing for them 
as a proteid rival of meat is poor indeed. Except in 
the Spring the economically inclined must be sparing 
of their use even in dessert dishes. When house- 
keepers say, as I have heard them, that eggs at 25 
cents a dozen are cheaper than meat, they must be 
speaking in comparison with very high priced meats. 



CHEESE. 



Cheese ( its food 
value.) 



In America, cheese is regarded more 
as a luxury than as a staple article of 
food, and yet 1 lb. of cheese is equal in food value to 
more than 2 lbs. of meat, it being very rich in both 
fat and proteids. Considering this, its price is very 
low and it ought to be a treasure to the poor man 
and do good service in replacing sometimes the more 
expensive meat. 



30 Food Value of Cheese. 

Use of cheese Its food value is fully recognized 

abroad. abroad. For the Swiss peasant it is a 

staple second only to bread, while the use of it in 
Italy and in Germany is extensive. The writer once 
spent several weeks in the house of a large farmer on 
the slope of Mt. Pilatus in Switzerland, and observed 
daily the food given to the harvesters; the luncheon 
sent twice a day to the fields consisted of a quarter 
section of the grayish skim cheese, accompanied with 
bread. I was told that the poor people in the region 
ate scarcely any meat, using cheese in its stead. 

The writer has also observed the use of cheese in 
Germany. Every locality has its special variety of 
the soft kind made of sour milk, and great amounts 
of the Swiss, both skim and full milk, cheese are con- 
sumed. It is generally eaten uncooked, but also as an 
addition to cooked food in a great variety of dishes. 
Digestibility of There is no doubt of the food value of 
cheese. cheesc, but there does seem to be some 

question as to its digestibility. When we come to 
inquire into this point, we find that thorough experi- 
ments have been made by German scientists; Dr. 
Rubner, a pupil of Voit, gives the result of experi- 
ments on himself. He found that he could not con- 
sume much of it alone, but with milk he took easily 
200 grams, or nearly ^ lb. , and only when he took as 
high as 517 grams or over a pound daily, was it less 
completely digested than meat. Prof. Konig says, 
that in the amounts in which it is generally eaten, 
125 to 250 grams daily (i to -^ lb.), it is as well digest- 
ed as meat or eggs. The extensive use of it abroad 
would seem to be some guarantee for the digestibility 
of the foreign varieties at least. 




Digestihiliiy of Cheese. 



31 



American cheeses have in general a sharper flavor 
than the foreign, still it is probable that well mixed 
with other food, enough could be taken many a time, 
to give a man his needed daily quantity of animal 
proteid, — between six and seven ounces, — and this is 
a matter of great importance from an economical point 
of view. 




METHODS OF OOOKHSTG MEAT. 



Why cook. And first — wliy do we cook it at all? 

In the animal as well as in the vegetable world some 
foods are all ready for our digestion, as milk. Raw 
eggs too, are perfectly digestible and are often given 
to invalids. We hear, of " Raw meat cures," and 
it has been found that tender and juicy raw meat, if 
chopped fine to break the connective tissue, is well 
digested. 

But raw meat does not taste good to most of us, 
while the delicious flavor and odor of a broiled steak 
make it very acceptable to the palate, and we must 
believe to the stomach also. We "bring out the 
flavor," as we say, by cooking; what else do we do? 
Let us examine for a moment a piece of meat with 
structure of reference to the effect heat has upon it. 

meat. The red part is made up of, first, very 

tiny sausage-like bags, or muscle fibres as they are 
called, and in these is contained the precious proteid 
matter, flavors and salts all mixed together with 
water into a sort of jelly; second, these muscle fibres 
are bound together by strands of connective tissue, 
as that white stringy mass is called, in Avhich the fat 
and blood vessels are lodged; this is also of food 
value, but inferior to the fibres. Third, dissolved 
in the juices floating between the fibres and strands, 

33 



Examination of Meat Fibre. 33 

there is also a proteid called soluble albumen. The 
little bags of proteid, when we can get at them, are 
as digestible in our stomachs as is the white of egg, 
though, like the egg again, their flavor is improved by 
slight cooking. But, as we have seen, they are 
imprisoned in the connective tissue, somewhat, we 
may say, as are the starch grains of the potato in the 
cellulose. 
Softening connec- ^-^^^8 connective tissue we can soft- 

tive tissue, en by heat, thereby turning it into 
a sort of gelatine, but unfortunately, unless the meat 
is very tender, this requires a longer application of 
heat than is needed to cook the delicate albumen all 
full of flavors too easily lost. To soften the connect- 
ive tissue without overcooking the albumen, is one 
of the problems of meat cookery. 

The next question is, how do our methods of cook- 
ing meet these requirements? 

COOKING MEAT IN WATER. 

ist. Method. p^t a piece of lean meat into cold 
water, heat it very slowly and watch the effect. The 
water becomes slightly red, then cloudy, and as the 
heat increases, yellowish in color, and finally it clears, 
sending a scum to the surface. If we examine this 
scum, we find that the water has soaked out much 
soluble albumen and a large proportion of the salts 
of the meat as well as other substantives called extrac- 
tives; and now the odor of the boiling meat begins to 
fill the kitchen. The longer and slower the warming 
process, the more of all these things we shall extract, 
and the meat when taken out will be in just that 
proportion poor. 



34 First MetJiod of Coohing Meat. 

Soup making-. This is the process known as soup 

making, — very simple, if we care noth- 
ing for the piece of meat but to soak out of it all the 
food and flavors possible. After some hours of cook- 
ing we find it shrunken, gray and tasteless. A dog 
if fed on that alone could not live many days. How- 
ever, as we have before said, we are not to conclude, 
that it contains no more nutriment, but the stomach 
rejects it now that it is separated from all the flavoring 
matters. 

2nd Method. Now put a piecc of meat into 

boiling water and continue the boiling. The sur- 
face of the meat suddenly whitens and a little 
scum rises on the water, though very little compared 
with what we saw in the former method. We have 
coagulated the albumen contained in all the little 
cells in the surface of the meat, and the soluble albu- 
men, flavoring matters and salts cannot get out; the 
sealing up is not quite perfect, enough escaping into 
the water to make it a weak soup, but it is a good meth- 
od of cooking a large piece if properly completed from 
this point. But if we go on boiling our meat, that is, 
keeping the temperature at 212°, we shall overcook 
the albumen in the outer layers before that in the 
center is coagulated. By overcooking, we mean 
making it horny and flavorless, as we do the white of 
an Qgg if we cook it in the old-fashioned way, by 
dropping into boiling water and keeping it at that 
heat. Having seared the outside of the meat to keep 
the juices in, we must lower the temperature. The 
albumen coagulates at between 160° and 170°, but 
the water in the kettle may be a little above this, as 




Second Method of Cooking Meat. 35 

it must constantly transfer heat to the interior 
of the meat. The general rule is that it should 
*' bubble" or "simmer" only, and if the cook can do 
no better she must follow these indications. That 
the true temperature for cooking meat is below the 
boiling point, many an intelligent housekeeper knows, 
but how is she to know when the water is at 170°? 
Here we come upon the weakest point in household 
cookery ; various degrees of heat have different effects 
on the foods we cook, but of only one temperature is 
the housekeeper certain — that of boiling water. 

For the use of the thermometer and the heat saver 
see pages 43 and 44. 

But to return ; is there no way of cooking that will 
keep in the meat all these flavors and salts and albu- 
mens, just as nature mixed them ? Yes, there are 
three ways, — frying in fat, baking in an oven, and 
broiling over coals. 

We will examine the first. If we 

Frying in fat. , ai,- * i. i. 

plunge a thin piece of meat, as a cut- 
let coated with egg and breadcrumbs, into boiling 
fat, the albumen in the surface or rather in that of 
the egg surrounding it is coagulated as in boiling, 
but this time the outer rind preserves the juices still 
better because the fat will not mix with them as will 
water. Everyone knows how an oyster cooked in 
this way retains its juices. 

When we bake a piece of meat in the 

Baking meat. , , . , , 

oven, we start in the same way; we 
sear the outside in fat, turning the roast about in a 
small quantity of fat made hot in a kettle; we then 
transfer it, still in the kettle or pan, to a hot oven 



36 Baking Meat. 

where the process of cooking is completed, but at 
short intervals we moisten the surface with the fat in 
the pan. If we did not baste the roast, we would 
find a thick layer of grey, tasteless meat inside the 
outer brown crust, and indeed the whole piece would 
dry long before the center of our roast had reached 
the coagulating point; we baste, in order to keep 
in the juices which, as we know, will not mix with 
the fat, and also that only a mild degree of heat, not 
exceeding the coagulating point of proteids, may be 
transmitted to the interior. In the intervals of our 
basting, some water is driven out of the meat and 
evaporated into steam, and the high heat of the oven 
expends itself in evaporating this, in heating the 
basting fat, and perhaps ( if it reach so high a tem- 
perature ) in decomposing part of it, and in changing 
the chemical character of small quantities of extrac- 
tives, thus making the meat *' tasty," and so it hap- 
pens that only a mild degree of heat is passed into 
the center of the piece. We would hardly believe 
that the inside of a roast, with its light pink color, 
registers only 160° by the thermometer, yet this can 
be proved by anyone with a long chemist's thermom- 
eter. 

\lthough some of the water of our meat has evap- 
orated, the extractives and salts are retained to a 
larger extent than in boiling, as we shall see by the 
table given later. 

In broiling, the principle applied is 

^°^ °^* exactly the same as in baking, the 

cooking being done by the medium of heated air. 

The dry heat of the coals affects the outer layer of 



Broiling Meat. 37 

le meat, as does the hot air of the oven. In both 
these methods, just as in boiling, we try to hold 
the temperature of our cooking medium just high 
enough to keep the heat traveling toward the in- 
terior of the meat. 

We have now learned to cook the albumen enough 
and not too much and to keep the flavors of our meat; 
what about the connective tissue, and how has that 
fared with our different modes of cooking? 

If our meat is cut from the tenderer 

Tender meat. , , ■■,,,■,•■,. 

parts of an animal of the nght age, well 

fed and •fattened, and if it has been kept long enough 

after killing, the connective tissue will soften into 

eatable condition in the length of time required to 

cook the albumen by the methods described. Such 

meat, so cooked, will always be tender and full of 

flavor. 

But if the meat is cut from the 
Tou^h meat. 

tougher parts, or from an old or ill- 
fattened animal, or cooked too soon after killing, the 
connective tissue will not soften in that time ; we 
must continue the application of heat till this tissue 
iftens. 
[ethods com- Therefore, what method of cooking 

t^^^imiity' ^ ^^ ^^"^''^ "^^' depends on the quality of 
meat. the meat we have. Trimmings and 

tough portions we will make into soup, expecting to 
liop the tasteless meat next day and add other flavors 
> make it palatable. Somewhat better pieces, but 
ill requiring long cooking to soften the connective 
ue, may be made into a stew or ragout ; or if the 
lece is large and compact, boiled in water; but meat 



ill 



38 Methods Compared. 

that is tender and juicy (and for improving tough 
meat see page 45 ) should be boiled, baked or broiled, 
choosing oftenest the last two methods, because of 
the more perfect retention of the juices and the fine 
flavor given to the outer layer. 

We are told that baking or broiling 

2d, as to economy. , j- ^ » i • , 

IS a very wasteful way of cooknig meat ; 
that if we would be truly economical we would always 
boil or stew, using our meat or its juices to flavor 
vegetables. From this we must dissent for it would 
condemn us to such a monotony as would be unen- 
durable even to the poor. Better sometimes a 
smaller piece of broiled or baked meat with its deli- 
cious and stimulating flavor, and make our soup of 
vegetables and season it with herbs. Besides, accord- 
ing to the scientists, baking and broiling are 7iot 
wasteful methods. I quote from a table of Prof. 
Konig's, wherein are given the results of analysis of 
beef raw, after boiling and after "braten." Raw, it 
contained .86^ extractives (nitrogenous bodies most- 
ly ; very important as giving the stimulating smell 

and taste) and 1.23^ salts. 

Extractives Salts 

Raw .-. S6fc 1.33^ 

After boiling,. - 40^ 1.15^ 

After "braten" .72fo 1.45^ 

f^ The advantage is seen to be in favor of " braten " 
both in regard to extractives and salts. The loss of 
water was nearly the same in both cases. As for the 
fat lost in broiling a beef steak, that is indeed a loss, 
but one to. be made up in some measure by the smaller 
quantity of fuel necessary to cook the meat. The 




I 



Soup Making. 39 

loss of this fat need not be made so much of, until we 
have learned to do better in many other still more 
important directions. 

The philosophy of cooking meat according to the 
different methods has been treated, and we will now 
give a few additional directions as to carrying out 
these methods. 

SOUP MAKING. 

Materials for Soup Lca^ meat of any sort, beef best; 

makingr. fresh, better than that long kept; 

bones of next value, especially the spongy rib bones 
and vertebrae. Saw and chop the bones into little 
pieces, — cut the meat small. Soft water is better 
than hard. 

Method of Keep a kettle, if possible, for this 

n>*ki^^- purpose alone, and add to it all bits of 

meat and bones as they accumulate. Put the meat 
into cold water, let it stand some hours if possible, 
heat very gradually and keep simmering. Two hours 
or less brings out all the flavors of the meat, but a 
much longer time is necessary to get all the nutri- 
ment from the bones. 

Do not remove the scum; it contains 
the albumen of the soup, and nothing 
objectionable if the meat was well cleaned. 

An hour before the soup is served add flavors; 
onions and carrots are the best, celery, summer sa- 
vory, and parsley next. Use others, as cloves, nut- 
meg, bay leaf, etc. , only occasionally. Add salt and 
pepper just before serving. 

When done, strain and skim off all fat (better if 



40 Boiling Meat. 

left to stand till next day, the fat removed and the 
soup simply rewarmed), and make such additions as 
you wish. 

[We prefer our soups with the fat removed, but 
the laboring people of Europe with their hardy stom- 
achs find a soup much better if covered with ''eyes."] 

These rules apply to all meat soups. Mutton 
makes a strong and nutritious soup, veal a delicate 
soup. An excellent soup is made from a calf's head. 

BOILING. 

Put the meat into boiling water, bring 

To boil meat. . , , . , , -i j , . 

quickly again to a boil and keep so for 
10 minutes, then lower the temperature (as see page 
35), and so keep it till the meat in the center has 
reached 160°-170°, or has changed in color from 
bluish to red, our usual test. For use of the " Cook- 
ing Safe" for this purpose, seepage 44. Braising, 
"a la mode", kettle roasts, &c., are but modifications 
of this method. 

To make meat '^\n^& is a combination of soup mak- 
stews. ing and boiling. Use inferior parts, 

cut in pieces and cook, at 170° if possible, till tender. 
Half an hour before serving, season in any way you 
wish. See page 47. 

FETING IK FAT. 

How to prepare Lard if uscd for this purpose should 

Suet in which to, , ■ -, l i_ ^ ^ , y •#•-• 

fry meat. be tried out at home, but beef fat is 

cheaper and if nicely prepared no one can object to 
the taste. 



Frying in Fat. 



41 



Cut the fresh suet in pieces, and cover with cold 
water; let it stand a day, changing the water once in 
the time. This takes out the peculiar tallowy taste. 
Now put it in an iron kettle, with a half teacup of 
milk to each pound of suet, and let it cook very 
slowly till the fat is clear, and light brown in color, 
and till the sound of the cooking has ceased. The 
pieces may be loosened from the bottom with a spoon, 
but it is not to be stirred; if it burns the taste is 
ruined. Now let it stand and partly cool, then pour 
off into cups to become cold; it smells as sweet as 
butter and can in many cases be used instead of it. 
The fat left still in the pieces may be pressed out for 
less particular uses. 

Any clean fat, even mutton, has its uses in cookery, 
and should be tried out and kept nicely, 
oils for use In There are oils now sold which but 
fryinjf. for prejudice we would always use. 

Pure cotton seed oil is a fine oil with a delicate flavor; 
rape seed oil, which is used extensively abroad for 
this purpose, is also a pure vegetable oil, but some- 
what rank in flavor. It is treated thus: a raw pota- 
to is cut up and put into the kettle, heating with the 
oil and cooking till it is brown, it is then taken out 
and the oil used like lard. The potato has absorbed 
the rank flavor. 

Thin pieces of meat, like cutlets and chops, are 

t coated with beaten egg and bread crumbs and cooked 
in boiling fat for 5-10 minutes, according to the kind 
of meat. 
Make some beef fat hot in an iron pan 
* "** • or broad kettle. Put the meat into it, 
I 



43 Baking 3feat. 

and with a fork stuck into the fat part, turn it rapidly 
till it is on all sides a fine brown, then put it into a hot 
oven (about 340° F.), elevating it above the pan on a 
meat rack, or a few iron rods. Now comes the pro- 
cess called basting; in five minutes or less 
you will find that the top of the meat 
has dried, and you must now dip, with a spoon, the 
hot fat from the pan over the top. Do this every few 
minutes adding no water to the pan; you will find 
your meat well cooked in from 12-15 minutes to the 
pound. It is done when it has lost, in the middle, 
the blue color, and become a fine red. Only salt and 
pepper should be used to season such a roast, and 
must be added when the meat is half done; if earlier, 
it toughens the fibres. 

But when fuel is expensive, or in 

To broil meat. , ^ , ^ ■ 

summer when a hot tire is a nuisance, 
the perfectly cooked meat can also be obtained by 
broiling; the management of the fire is the only 
trouble. We are told that a beefsteak for broiling 
should be cut f of an inch thick, and put over a hot 
fire of coal or charcoal; quite right, but when it has 
browned quickly, as it should, and been turned and 
browned on the other side, it yet remains raw in the 
middle and if left longer, the surface burns. This is 
the experience of the novice, who has yet to learn 
two things; first, that immediately after the first 
browning, the fire must decrease in heat, or the meat 
be brought further away, so that th« steak may cook 
10-13 minutes without burning — less time will not 
cook it nicely in the middle; and second, that like 
baked meat, the surface must be kept moist with hot 






i 



Broiling Meat. 43 

fat. Before your steak is put over (unless it be 
very well streaked with fat), cover both sides with 
melted suet, and afterwards, as it dries, spread on 
a little butter or beef fat. Have ready in a hot 
platter a few spoonsful of water in which the bones 
cut from the steak have been boiling, also salt and 
pepper. When the steak is done, lay it in the platter 
and keep it hot for five minutes, turning it once in 
the time; thus you will have both good steak and 
good gravy. 

Professional cooks always use charcoal 

Use of charcoal. , , • , • -i • , , 

for broiling, and its advantages are 

great. As described on page 21 it needs only a sim- 
ple contrivance, easily adjusted to any stove; a hand- 
ful will broil a pound of steak, and the cooking of 
the rest of the dinner can go on without interference. 

USE OF THE THERMOMETEB IN COOKING MEAT. 

To cook meat at a temperature of between 150° 
and 160° F., is no easy matter with the usual kitchen 
appliances. Even over an easily regulated heater, as 
a gas or coal oil flame, how are we to know that tem- 
perature when it is reached ? The writer, knowing 
of no thermometer arranged for use in a kitchen, con- 
structed a simple one after the model of those used in 
laboratories. A thermometer tube registering 300° 
Celsius was simply fastened into a cork, the bulb 
projecting below and protected by a short cylinder of 
wood. This floated on the water and made it easy 

cook at any given temperature. This thermome- 
ter was also hung in a light wire frame and used for 
testing the heat of an oven. 



44 The Heat Saver. 

THE HEAT SAVEK. 

It is a part of common information that the in- 
habitants of northern countries make extensive use 
of non-conducting substances, like wool, for prevent- 
ing the escape of heat from a vessel in which cooking 
is going on. It is strange that we do not make more 
use of such appliances, for they have often been de- 
scribed and illustrated; it is probably because they 
are not found ready-made, and with a complete list 
of directions for use. The writer made and used a 
cooker of this sort, and after considerable modifica- 
tion and experiment it became a very useful thing 
in the kitchen. If you wish to cook meat at the 
proper temperature, this contrivance makes it possi- 
ble to do so, and is also very saving of fuel. 
Directions for Take a packing box measuring, say, 
Saver!^ ^ ^66* each way and cover the bottom 

with a layer of packed wool 4 to 6 inches thick ; set 
into the middle of this another box or a cylinder of 
sheet iron and fill the space between the two with 
a layer of wool, 4 to 6 inches thick and closely 
packed. Into the inner compartment put your ket- 
tle of meat or vegetables already brought to the boil- 
ing point and having a tightly fitting cover, and over 
this press a thick pillow or woolen blanket. Then 
fasten down tight over all, the lid of your box. As 
the heat in the water must finish the cooking already 
begun, its amount must be rightly proportioned to 
the amount of food to be cooked, e. g., two quarts of 
water to 1-| lbs. beef rib, were used. The water was 
brought to the boiling point, the meat placed in it 
and allowed to boil for five minutes, the pot was 



i 



Treatment of Tough Meat 

len tightly covered, placed in the box and allowed 
to remain three hours. At the end of that time the 
meat was tender. 

TO MAKE MEAT TENDER. 

To make meat It is well known that meat must be 
kept some time after killing to make it 
tender. In winter, a large piece of beef or mutton 
will keep for six weeks if hung in a dry, cool place. 
Indeed, this is the time allowed in England for the 
Christmas "shoulder of mutton," and every few days 
it is rubbed over with salt and vinegar. In summer, 
unless the butcher will keep the meat for you, you 
must resort to other means. 

A tough piece of meat may be laid in not too strong 
vinegar for 3 or 4 days in summer and twice as long in 
winter, adding to the vinegar such spices as you may 
like. To soften a tough steak pour a few spoonfuls 
of vinegar on and let stand for twelve or twenty-four 
hours. This method has been long recommended and 
is to some extent used among us; the foreign cook em- 
ploys sour milk for the same purpose and with even 
greater success, but this must be changed every day and 
at the end of the time well washed from the meat. 

We cannot too strongly urge that the housekeeper, 
especially if she be straightened in means, should be- 
come used to these methods and practice them occa- 
sionally. She does not want to confine herself to soups 
and stews and she cannot buy "porter-house" steak 
at 20 or 25 cents a pound, but she can buy "round" 
at half that price, and after a little experiment can 
make it tender for boiling, roasting or broiling by one 
of these methods. In winter, she should buy a supply 
of meat ahead and keep it until it grows tender. 



EECIPES FOR COOKn^G MEATS. 



The methods of cooking meat having been treated 
and mention made of the .parts adapted, to each, 
it remains only to give practical hints as to making 
and varying dishes. 

BEEF. 

Boiled, roast and broiled, beef have been sufficient- 
ly dwelt upon. See pages 40-43. 

stews and Ra- ^o mode of cooking meat has so 

gouts. many variations ; the flavor of the 

meat being used to season vegetables of every sort, 

also doughs, as in dumplings, or in the crust of meat 

pie. For making meat stews see page 40. 

One-half hour before the meat is 
With potatoes. , , , ... itj.. 

done lay on top of it peeled potatoes, 

all of the same size, and serve when done with the 

meat and gravy. 

When the meat is cooked tender, 

^ ^ ^* thicken the gravy and pour all into a 

pie or pudding dish. Cover with a common pie crust 
or one of mashed potatoes, and bake ^ hour. 

You may also mix sliced raw potatoes with the stew, 
in layers. 

Potato Crust. 4 cup mashed potatoes, 1 Qgg, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 cup of milk, salt. Beat to- 

46 



Beef. 47 

gether till smooth, and then work in enough flour so 
that you can roll it out. It should be \ in. thick, 
and as soft as you can handle. 

Add to meat when tender, 1 qt. to- 
matoes to 2 lbs. meat. Thicken with 
flour and stew 5 minutes. 

Stews are variously flavored : onion. 

Flavors for stews, i, , , . , 

salt and pepper, are always in place. 

A little lemon juice added as it is served gives a deli- 
cious flavor, or even a tablespoon of vinegar may be 
used. Any herbs, a piece of carrot, a clove or bit of 
garlic, may be used for variety. Catsup is also good 
as a flavor. 

Corned Beef. Wash it Well, put into plenty of cold 
water and bring slowly to the simmering point. 
Cook 3 to 4 hours. 

Turnips or cabbage are often eaten with corn 
beef. They should not be boiled with the meat but 
in a separate pot. 

If from a good animal, beef liver is 

often as tender as calf's liver. 
This is tho best method. Soak an 

hour in cold water, wipe dry, slice and 
dip in melted beef fat. Broil sloivly (see page 42) till 
thoroughly done; then salt and butter. 

When prepared as above, the slices of 

liver may be fried in a pan with a little 
beef fat. This gives an opportunity for more flavors, 
as onion may be fried with it, a little vinegar added to 
the juices that fry out, then thickened and used as 
gravy. 

If liver is not quite tender it can be 

made into a stew, or it may be chopped 



4:8 Recooking Beef. 

fine, mixed with bread crumbs and egg and baked ^ 

hour. 

If fire is no object, you may boil a 

beef's heart, it will take all day. Put 

into cold water and bring slowly to the simmering 

point and keep it there. Next day it may be stuffed 

with well seasoned bread crumbs and baked f hour. 

Cut in strips, soak in salt and vine- 
Tripe 

gar ^ day, wipe dry and fry in hot lard. 

It may also be stewed. 

KECOOKIKG BEEF. 

(A.) Boiled, baked or broiled beef which is ten- 
der and full of flavor. 

To serve roast beef a second time. 
Roast beef re- Heat the gravy, put the roast in it. 
served. After trimming it into shape again, 

cover closely and put into a hot oven for ten minutes 
or less according to size of piece. 

Or, cut in slices and lay in hot gravy only long 
enough to heat them through. 

Being full of flavor such meat may 
be chopped and mixed with from ^ to ^ 
as much chopped or mashed potatoes, bread crumbs 
or boiled rice. These mixtures may be warmed as 
hash, or made into cakes or balls to be fried on a grid- 
dle or in boiling fat. 

Mix the chopped meat with the potatoes, bread- 
crumbs or rice as above, add salt and pepper and 
make quite moist with water or soup. Put a good 
piece of butter or of beef fat into a spider, and when 
it is hot, put in the hash. Cover and let it steam. 



Recooking Soup Meat. 49 

8n remove cover and let it dry out while a brown 
crust forms on the bottom. Or, stir till hot and 
dish immediately. 

Make not quite as moist as for hash, 

form into little cakes, dust with flour, 

and fry to a nice brown in a little beef dripping on a 

griddle. Or, egg and bread crumb the balls, and fry 

in boiling fat. 

(B.) RECOOKING SOUP MEAT. 

This meat, though made tender by long cooking, 
has given much of its flavor to the soup. It has 
not, to the same degree, however, lost its nutritive 
value; if we can make it taste good again, both palate 
and stomach will approve it. 

It will not do to mix this meat with neutral sub- 
stances like potatoes and bread; it needs addition 
rather than subtraction. 

In any case, first chop the meat very fine. 
Preased aoup Season the chopped beef well with 

TDOkt. gait and pepper, and some other addi- 

tion, as celery salt or nutmeg, or some of the sweet 
herbs. Moisten with soup or stock, pack in a square, 
deep tin and place in the oven for a short time. To 
be sliced cold, or warmed as a meat hash to be served 
on toast. 

Meat Croquette. ^^^^ «^ g»«^ » ^^^h as this Can be 

made out of soup meat, it is worth a 
little trouble. 

Ingredients. 2 cups of the chopped beef, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, I egg, \ a lemon or 
1 tablespoon vinegar, a few gratings of nutmeg and 
\ cup of stock or milk. 
5 



50 Veal. 

Cook the flour in the butter and add the stock or 
milk and seasoning, then the beef, and cook, stirring 
all the time till the mass cleaves from the side of the 
kettle. Let it get cold, then make into little egg 
shaped balls, let them dry a little, roll in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

To vary — add -J as much chopped salt or fresh pork 
as you have meat. 

VEAL. 

This meat takes other flavors well and is used by 

cooks for all manner of fancy dishes. It is lacking 

in fat and for that reason easily dries in cooking ; an 

addition of pork is always an advantage to the taste. 

It must be always well cooked, never rare. 

This may be a piece cut from loin, 
Roast Veal. , , i u -v • 

breast or shoulder, or a rib piece. 

Koast like beef (see page 35), allowing twice as long, 

or l|-2 hours, for any piece under 4 lbs. 

Broiled veal Outlets, chops and steaks are broiled 

chops. like beef, but slower and twice as long 

and must be buttered and floured to prevent drying. 
Should be served with a tomato or onion sauce. 
Cook like beef stew, see page 46. 
^' It may be varied in the same way, 

and is generally more highly seasoned. Especially 
good as pot-pie. Salt pork should be added to it. 
Liver, Sweet- Yeal liver, swectbreads and heart are 

Heart! *^° all tender and excellent, but high priced, 
especially the sweetbreads. Liver and heart are pre- 
pared like the same parts in beef (see page 47), but the 
heart cooks tender in two hours. This latter is an ex- 



Mutton and Lamb, 5] 

celleiiL dish, do not soak it — stufif with well seasoned 
bread crumbs and bake, basting well. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Mutton and The quality of mutton is so varying 

Lamb. that when cooked the dish is often a dis- 

appointment. The influence of long keeping or 
** hanging" upon it is even more beneficial than upon 

beef. 

Fat of Mutton. Some cooks trim 

away every bit of fat from mutton. It 

is perfectly wholesome, but sometimes gets a taste 

from coming in contact with the hide or hair of the 

animal; hence the prejudice. Scrape the outside of 

the meat well, pulling off the dried skin and cutting 

away the dark ends. 

Unlike beef, other pieces besides the 

Pteccfl to ro&st. 

rib are good for roasting; the loin and 
haunch are most economical, the shoulder next, the 
leg next. Roast like beef, see page 35. 

Unless the meat is first class, do not roast, but boil 
it. The leg is oftenest used for this purpose. 

Simmer about 12 minutes to the 

To boil mutton. i xi i. • j.i i i 1. t 

pound ; that is the rule, but very fre- 
quently the meat when it comes on the table, will 
be tough, owing entirely to the difference in the qual- 
ity of the meat. Such meat must be boiled twice as 
long, or is better cooked in a stew. 

The chop is oftenest broiled and is 
DC ope. ^ famous dish. Cut | in. thick, and 
broil rare like beef. 

Chops and cutlets are exceUent fried in fat. See 
page 40. 



52 PorJc. 

Mutton stew. Th.\& is the most economical and per- 

haps the most satisfactory of all mutton dishes. The 
inferior parts, as the neck, are as good as any for this 
purpose. Proceed exactly as with beef stew. 
A good stew is made from sheep's kidneys. 

These may be mentioned because 

Sheep tongues. . . , , , , 

sometimes thrown away or sold very 

cheap. Clearn well, and simmer 1^ hours, with a 
little pork and onion. Add to the gravy 1 table- 
spoon of vinegar. 

All these recipes for mutton apply to the cooking 
of lamb ; remembering however, that lamb, like veal, 
must be thoroughly cooked. 

PORK. 

Pork does not need to be kept in order to be ten- 
der, that is one of its great recommendations to the 
housekeeper. It is also easily cooked and we may 
lay aside some of the precautions we use regarding 
beef: The lean of fresh pork however, is apt to dry 
in cooking. 

The leg, the loin and the chine are 

Roasting pieces. , , . . n , i • i 

good roasting pieces as well as the rib. 
Pork is so rich in flavor that it seasons finely a bread 
crumb dressing, to which add a little sage and vin- 
egar or chopped pickles. Bake separately, and lay 
around it when served. Or better, though more 
trouble, make holes in the roast and force the stuff- 
ing in. 

Put directly into a hot oven in a pan containing 
some hot fat, and baste very frequently till done. 
Allow at least 20 minutes to the pound. 



Ham. 63 

SteakB and chops. Steaks and cho})8 are broiled, but the 
surface must be kept well moistened with butter or 
beef fat, or they will be dry and tasteless. 

Fresh pork is seldom boiled and it is 
w o por . ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^ stew, though the lean may 

be selected and cooked like beef stew. It makes also 
an excellent potpie, or meat pie. See page 46. 

Pig's liver is good cooked like beef's 
liver, and is cheaper. See page 47. 

The cooking of this is very simple. 

Pork Sausairc 

Fry brown in a frying pan on the 
stove, or better, set the pan in a hot oven, you will 
then avoid the sputtering of the fat. 

HAM, SALT POBK AND BACON. 

Ham may be cooked in any way in which fresh 
pork is cooked. It may be cut in ^ in. slices, or 
thinner, and broiled or fried lightly in a pan. If 
long cooked it becomes tough and dry. If too salt 
for this, it may be soaked a half hour in warm 
water. 

A large piece of ham is best boiled. If very salt, 
soak it in cold water for 24 hours, then put into 
cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and simmer half 
a day if the ham is of good size. A ham may also be 
baked. 

Dubes from cold So highly flavored a meat can be 
*»a™- used in numberless ways, especially 

combined with vegetables and bread. 

Chop ^ lb. fine, season with mus- 
tard, pepper and 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 



54 Salt Porh and Bacon. 

Ham cakes. Take 1 Clip finely chopped boiled 

ham, 3 cups of breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, pepper and salt, 
and enough milk to make quite moist. 

To use. 1st. Fry on a griddle in small spoonfuls, 
and turn as pancakes. 

2d. Use mashed potatoes instead of breadcrumbs, 
and fry as above. 

3d. Take either of the above mix- 

Croquettes. . . , ,.,,i .„ 

tures, using, however, little or no milk, 
make into little balls and after rolling in Qgg and bread- 
crumbs, fry in boiling fat. 

4th. With eggs. Put either of these 

mixtures into a baking dish; smooth the 
surface and make little hollows in it with the bowl of 
a spoon. Put in the oven till hot, then break an egg 
into each depression, and return to the oven till the 
eggs are set. 

Broiled Salt Pork After slicing thin, freshen salt pork 
and Bacon \y^ laying in cold water over night or \ 
hour in warm water. Broil till transparent and a 
delicate brown in color. Broil bacon without freshen- 
ing. 

Less delicate than broiled, but much 

Fricsd 

more economical, because saving the 
fat. Fry only till transparent. Salt pork must be 
first freshened. To make milk gravy of the fat, see 
"meat and vegetable sauces," page 73. 

Both salt pork and bacon are boiled with vegeta- 
bles. 

Bacon or Porh and Cabbage. This is a favorite 
mixture, and if the cabbage is only boiled half an 
hour and not in the same pot with the pork, it is Rot 



Fresh Fish. 55 

an indigestible dish. Put the pork into cold water, 
bring slowly to a boil and simmer from ^ to 2 hours, 
according to size of piece. 

Cook 1 qt. dried peas according to 
Pork eaa. jjij-ectionsfor pea soup, page 117. Boil 
pork with the pesis during the last hour, or after 
parboiling, bake like pork and beans. 

Cook 1 qt. beans according to soup 
*° recipe, page 117. Parboil 1 lb. salt side 

pork, score the skin in squares, half bury in the beans 
and bake 2 hours, or till a nice brown. 
Pork and Pota- Slicc a dozen potatoes thin, also ^ lb. 
toes- fat salt pork, put into a pudding dish 

in alternate layers, seasoning with salt and pepper 
(only a little of the former). Bake, covered, ^ hour, 
uncover and brown. 

Fruits seasoned with meat juices and 
pp es. ^^^^^ instead of with sugar, are not 
enough known among us. 

Slice sour apples round in slices ^ in. thick with- 
out peeling, and fry with strips of pork or bacon, 
rve together. 



w 



FRESH FISH. 



The varieties of fresh fish are numberless, and to 
cook and serve them in perfection requires careful 
study from the cook. The subject must here be 
reated very briefly. 

Fresh fish may be cooked in any of the ways appli- 
cable to meat ; the length of time being much shorter, 
Iiud care being required on account of the delicacy of 
he fibre. This makes broiling somewhat djflficult. 



56 Salt Fish. 

Small fish are perhaps best egged and bread crumbed 
and fried in hot fat. 

This dish deserves especial mention 
18 ow er. ijggjj^^jgg Qf j^g cheapness and good fla- 
vor. It may be made of any fresh fish. 

Fill a pudding dish with the fish cut in pieces, 
seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and bits 
of suet or fat pork ; put over it a potato crust as for 
meat pie ( see page 46 ), or a soda biscuit crust, and 
bake. Bread crumbs or sliced potatoes may be mixed 
with the fish, and more seasoning used. 

Fresh fish can also be made into 
Fi8 oups. soups, and the cheaper kinds should be 
more used for this purpose. 

Cook 1 tablespoon of flour in 1 table- 
Codfis oup. gpoQj^ Qf butter. Add 1| qts. milk, or 
milk and water, and when it boils stir in 1 teacup of 
cold boiled codfish that has been freed from skin and 
bones and then chopped fine or rubbed through a 
sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Bullhead or Cat- An excellent soup can be made of 
flsh Soup. this cheap fish. 

Clean and cut up 2 or 3 lbs. and boil an hour in 2 
qts. water with an onion and a piece of celery or any 
herbs ( it must be well seasoned ). Then add 1 cup 
of milk and a piece of butter or beef fat, or a piece 
of salt pork cut in bits may be boiled with the fish. 

SALT FISH. 

Salt Cod. This is one of the cheap foods that 

seems to be thoroughly appreciated among us, and 
good ways of cooking it are generally understood, 



Fowls. ^^K 57 

It must be freshened by laying it in water over 
night ; put into cold water and bring gradually to a 
boil; set the kettle back where it will keep hot for 
half an hour, separate the flakes and serve with a 
milk sauce. 

This favorite dish is prepared by 

adding to codfish, boiled as above and 

finely shredded, a like quantity of mashed potato. 

Make into balls and fry on a griddle or in boiling fat. 

Any other fish can be used in the same way. 

FOWLS. 

The flesh of fowls cannot rank among cheap foods, 
but in any economical family the Sunday dinner may 
often be a fricassee made of a fowl no longer young. 
Unless very ancient, the flavor of such a fowl will be 
richer than that of a chicken ; we have but to cook 
it till it is tender. 

Old Fowl Frio- Cut into joints, put into cold water 
^eeeeA and bring slowly to a simmering heat ; 

on no account let it boil, — keep it as nearly as pos- 
sible at 170° for 3 or 4 hours, or till it is very tender. 
At the end of 2 hours, add a sliced onion and salt 
and thicken the gravy. 

None but the wealthy should use 
chickens for soup, but from the bones 
left of baked or fricasseed chicken a good and eco- 
nomical soup can be made. Boil an hour or two, 
take out the bones, thicken a little and serve with 
bread dice fried in butter. 

, An excellent soup can be made of the 

' * giblets, that is, heart, liver and neck of 

chicken, and other fowls, which in city markets are 



58 Eggs. 

sold separately and very cheap. Cut in small pieces 
and boil 2 hours with onion and herbs, then add a 
little butter and thickening, salt and pepper. 

EGGS. 

The importance of eggs is to be estimated from 
various points of view; their food value is great, 
their digestibility when fresh is almost perfect, and 
they can be cooked in so many ways and are a neces- 
sary ingredient of so many dishes, that the cook could 
ill spare them. Indeed, in all countries, their con- 
sumjition seems to be limited only by their price. 

After the first twenty-four hours an 
egg steadily deteriorates. Physicians 
say, "never give to an invalid an egg that is more 
than two or three days old." 

There are methods in use for preserving eggs fresh, 
on the principle of excluding air by sealing up the 
pores of the shell, but none of them are without risk 
and they cannot be recommended to one who must 
economize closely. It is better to go without eggs as 
nearly as possible in winter. 

Eggs are as digestible raw as cooked, 

and one easily comes to like the taste of 

a fresh raw egg beaten to a foam and mixed with a 

little milk or water and sugar flavored with a little 

nutmeg or jelly. 

To soft boil an egg its temperature 

^^' should not be raised above \7Q°. The 

white will then be a jelly-like, digestible substance, 

but if exposed to a higher temperature, the white 

becomes horny while the yolk remains uncooked or 



Egg Dishes. 



59 



Hud Booed Bgss. 



becomes pasty. There are two methods of boiling an 
egg properly, which may be adopted according to 
convenience. 

1st. Allow 1 qt. of boiling water to 4 eggs. Use a 
pail or jar ( heated before the water is put in ) and 
wnip around with a flannel cloth. The eggs will be 
done in 6 minutes, but are not harmed by ton. 

2d. Put the eggs into cold water and bring slowly 
to a boil. They are done when the water begins to 
boil. 

To boil an e^ hard, it is no more 
"necessary to expose it to a high degree 
of heat than in the case of the soft boiled ; the heat 
must simply be much longer continued, 20 minutes 
to a half hour. The egg will then be solid but not 
horny as when cooked in boiling water. 

A great many attractire dishes can be made of cold 
Iwiled ^[gs. 

scninihied, These are but different modes of cook- 

and baked «ns. mg cggs Boft or solid. The taste will 
be more delicate and they will be more digestible if 
in these cases also only the low degree of heat above 
mentioned be applieil — more time being given them 
than is usunllv .n,iwed. 



KGU DISHES. 

These dishes under many names and in many forms 
are of next importance after meats, composed, as they 
generally are, of eggs and vegetables or some prepara- 
tion of the grains, while numberiess additions and fla- 
vors are used to give variety and make the dish tempt- 
ing to the eye and palate. Eggs so prepared have their 
full nutritive value; not so in rich puddings and cakes. 



60 Egg Dishes. 

where they are mixed with more sugar and fat than 
the system can take up in any quantity. 

The following are a few recipes that have not been 
included under other heads. Many others will be 
found under the Cooking of the Grains. 

1 cup of hard bread partly softened in 

Bread omelet. , , , -,•■,-> ■ i i 

hot water and milk, or in cold water 
(in which case press in a cloth and crumble), add ^ of a 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 egg, 
salt and pepper. Heat in the frying pan or square 
baking pan, some bits of suet or beef fat, and pour 
in the omelet. Cover and bake five minutes, then 
uncover and brown. Or it may be cooked slowly on 
top of the stove. Cut in pieces and serve around the 
meat or with a gravy. 

Bread, fresh or stale, is cut in long 

Egg«d bread. . . j -ii, 

strips, or m squares or rounds with a 
cake cutter. Let them soak till soft but not broken, 
in 1 pt. of salted milk into which two eggs have been 
beaten. Bake a nice brown or fry on a griddle in 
half suet and half butter. (May be made with one 

Fry a small onion, sliced, in a tea- 
Potato omelet. » , p i i j. j* j. xin j.i 

spoonful of butter or fat; nil the jian 

with 3 cups of cold sliced potatoes, salt and pepper 
them, and pour over them 2 beaten eggs. Bake slowly 
till it is just solid and turn out carefully on a plat- 
ter. Or, 1 cup potatoes and 1 cup bread crumbs 

may be used. 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoons 

Kice omelet. ^^^ -, ■, , ii »»•• i 

milk, 1 egg, -J teaspoon salt. Mix and 
pour into a pan in which a tablespoon of butter has 



Cheese Dishes. 



61 



Flour omelet. 



Tomato omelet. 



been heated. Fry and double over when done. Or, 
it may be baked like potato omelet. 

1 Qgg, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 
pinch of salt, add the beaten white of 
the egg last. 

This is the "Yorkshire Pudding" which is cooked 
in the pan over which beef is roasting; it is cut in 
squares and served around the meat. It may also be 
baked in a buttered pan without meat. 

3 eggs, 1 cup flour (scant), 1 table- 
spoon fine herbs, salt and cayenne pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon sugar, juice of 2 large tomatoes and 
1 cup warm milk. Bake under roasting meat, or alone 
in a buttered pan. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Almost any cheese will give a good result in these 
dishes. Crumbly cream cheese is richer in taste and 
has also been shown to be more quickly digested. 
Skim cheeses are as nutritious except in fat, and in 
some dishes, as in **Fondamin" give a better result. 
Grate old cheeses, chop new and soft ones. 

Grate old cheese and serve with bread 
and butter. It is also a good addition to 
mashed potato, to flour porridges, to oatmeal and 
and wheat flour porridges, to rice, sago, tapioca and 
indeed to any stafthy foods; it should be stirred 
in while these are quite hot. Its use with macaroni 
is given elsewhere. 
Cooked iflbeeso The "basis of these dishes is toasted 

with bread. bread (white or graham) arranged on a 
platter, and enough salted wt»ter poured on to soften it. 



Grated cbeeae. 



63 Cheese Dishes. 

1. Grate enough old cheese to cover the toast pre- 
pared as above. Set in the oven to melt, and put 
the slices together as sandwiches. This is the simplest 
form of " Welsh Rarebit.' 

2. -J lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter and 1 cup milk. 
Stir till smooth over a gentle fire or in a water bath 
and spread over the toast. 

3. \ lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 egg yolks, 
•J teaspoon mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Stir 
to smooth paste, spread on the toast and set in a hot 
oven for 4 minutes. 

4. To each person allow 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
grated cheese, ^ teaspoon butter or 1 tablespoon milk, 
a little salt and pepper (cayenne best). Cook like cus- 
tard in a pail set in a kettle of hot water, stirring 
till smooth, it may then be used on toast or poured 
out on a platter. It may also be steamed 5 minutes 
in little cups, or baked very slowly for 10 minutes. 

5. Slices of bread lightly buttered, 3 eggs, 1^ cups 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese. Soak the 
bread in the milk and egg till soft but not broken. 
Lay the pieces in a pan, cover with the cheese and 
bake or steam. 

Fondamin or This is a famous foreign dish, and 

Fondue. although it may seem to have a good 

many ingredients, it is really not much trouble to 
make. 

^ lb. of grated cheese (skim better than cream) add 
to 1 gill of milk, in which is as much bicarbonate of 
potash as will lie on a three cent piece, ^ teaspoon 
mustard, ^ saltspoon white pepper, a few grains of cay- 
enne, 1 oz. butter, a grating of nutmeg and 2 table- 



MilL 



63 



spoons baked floar. Heat carefully till the cheese is 
dissolved. Add 3 beaten eggs and stir till smooth. 
This mixture should be baked separately for each per- 
son in patty pans or paper cases and eaten imme- 
diately. All cheese dishes should be served very hot. 




MILK. 

Milk is sometimes called the one perfect food, con- 
taining all the constituents in their right proportions. 
This is true only for the requirements of a baby, but 
it remains for any age a valuable food when rightly 
supplemented. 

Milk contains on the average 3.31^ proteids, 3.66^ 
fat, 4.9^ carbohydrates, 87.41^ water, and .70^^ salts. 

The housewife, if she wishes to use milk with 
economy, will not in cooking use it as such, but 
with due regard to the different values of the cream 
and the skim parts. In cities skim milk is sold for 
about one-half the price of full milk, and is well 
worth it if pure, but it is too often mixed with water. 
As soon as milk comes into the house 
it should be boiled, as it is a notorious 
carrier of disease germs which only in this way can 
be killed. Use an earthenware pitcher and let the 
milk remain standing in the same after cooking. 
The next day remove the cream for the morning's 
coffee, and use the skim part during the day for cook- 
ing, with or without the addition of a little butter. 
To keep milk sweet in warm weather 
is a serious question to the housekeeper 

ho has no cellar or refrigerator. It is of first im- 
ance that the vessels used to contain it should bo 



BoiliDgr Milk. 



KoepiDH: Milk. 



64 Milk. 

scrupulously clean. Boiling, as above mentioned, 
and cooling it rajiidly afterwards, will keep it sweet 
for 24 hours, unless the weather is very warm, and 
the time may be further extended by keeping the 
milk pitcher set in a dish of cold water. A quarter 
of a teaspoonful of baking soda to a quart of milk, 
added while it is still sweet, may be used in case of 
necessity but this is not to be commended for com- 
mon use. 

A method that the writer has em- 

Canningr Milk. i -i • , i • • i • xi 

ployed IS this : simply canning the 
milk as one would can fruit. Fill glass jars and screw 
down the lids, then place them in a steamer over cold 
water ; heat the water gradually and steam the jars 
for an hour, then tighten the tops. I have never 
kept milk so treated for more than a week, but see 
no reason why it should not keep much longer. 

However, if you find yourself with 

sour milk on your hands, do not throw 
it away, it has many uses. Buttermilk is also very 
valuable to the housewife ; it can be kept a long time 
in good condition for mixing doughs by covering 
with water, which must, however, be often changed 
for fresh. 

USES FOR SOUR MILK AKD BUTTERMILK. 

Bonny Clabber. p^t skim milk into a glass dish or 
into tea cups and set away until it becomes solid. 
Then eat with sugar and powdered cinnamon sprink- 
led over it. 

Set thick sour milk where it will 
Cottage Cheese. , . in ,-n j.i j i. 

heat gradually till the curd separates, 

then pour into a bag and let it drip till dry. Salt 
well, and add a little cream or milk and melted butter. 



Sour Milk and Bnttermilk. 65 

Ist. As a drink. For this it should 
be very fresh. 
2d. Buttermilk soup. (Seepage 123.) 

Both buttermilk and sour milk can 

Uses for both. , , 

be used 

1st. In making soda biscuit dough (see page 102.) 

2d. In pancakes of all kinds (see page 103.) 

3d. In corn bread (see page 103.) 

4th. In some kinds of cake, as in gingerbread, 
cookies and doughnuts, where they are by many cooks 
preferred to sweet milk ; and in almost any kind of cake 
sour milk may be substituted for sweet, remembering 
always to use only half the quantity of cream of tartar 
called for in the recipe. 
6 



FATS AjSTD oils. 



The third food principle, Fats, stands between the 
two great nutrients, Proteids on the one hand and 
Carbohydrates on the other, and we find that we can 
indulge in considerable latitude as to its use. When 
we wish to get our food in a more condensed form, 
we can use fats freely in connection with proteids 
and lessen the amount of carbohydrates. In army 
dietaries the amount of fat is largely increased for 
marching, and for great exertion the quantity be- 
comes three times that allowed in garrison life. For 
instance, the daily rations served out to the German 
soldiers in France during the month of August, 1870, 

contained 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

Army Dietary. 157 g^S. 285 gms. 331 gms. 

It was represented by 1 lb. 10 oz. of bread, about 
1^ lbs. of meat, and over ^ lb. of bacon besides an 
allowance of coffee, tobacco and wine or beer. Prof. 
Ranke has called this an admirable diet for fighting 
men. In garrison life these soldiers would have re- 
ceived only 56 grams of fat, and 120 grams of pro- 
teids while the carbohydrates would have been in- 
creased to 500 grams or more. 

On the other hand, fat when coupled with enough 
carbohydrate food can replace some of the proteid, 
and often does so in the food of hardy and econom- 

66 



I 




Importance of Fats. 67 

Diet of Bavarian ical people. The Bavarian wobdchop- 
woodchopper. per is enabled by his splendid digestion 
to arrange his diet in the following way : he takes 
little proteid from the animal kingdom, but in order 
to get enough of it from vegetable products, he must, 
as we know, take in an immense quantity of the 
starch associated with it, and to this he adds a great 
quantity of fat. Von Liebig says that such a man 
takes on the average 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

112 gms. 309 gms. 691 gms. 

We see therefore that we can have a sliding scale 
for fat; that while we should not go below 2 oz. a day, 
we may, in case we lower one or both of the other 
two great constituents, go up to 8 or 9 oz. 
Importance of People belonging to the well-to-do 
Pat not realized, classes, uuless they have given special 
study to the subject, seldom realize the importance 
of fat in our economy. Fat means to them fat meat, 
suet, lard and the like, and the much eating of these 
is considered proof of a gross appetite; they do not 
consider how much fat they take in eggs, in milk, in 
grains like oatmeal and maize, in the seasoning of 
their varied dishes, and in their well-fattened meats, 
where, as in an average piece from a very fat mutton, 
they eat twice as much fat as proteid without knowing 
it. 

Indeed, a well fed man of the upper classes may 
have more fat in his daily diet than has the freshly 
arrived Mechlenburg laborer who spreads a quarter 
inch layer of lard on his bread. The latter cannot 
take his fat in unsuspected forms; he craves this 



68 Substitutes for Butter. 

principle with his plain vegetable diet, and must take 
it as he can get it. 

Now let us understand that where economy is to be 
considered, this question of fat does not take care of 
itself as it does for the rich man. The economical 
housewife should always keep in mind that she must 
furnish her family enough fat, and furnish it cheaply. 
Substitutes for Butter is a dear fat ; count out the 
Butter. water in it and see what it costs you. 
We must economize in butter in as many ways as 
possible. We must eat more fat meat, first, that 
which is ingrained with the lean where it takes the 
place of water, as we have seen under ''Proteids," 
costing us practically nothing; when we eat our 
vegetables seasoned with such a piece of meat, we 
find them sufficiently seasoned. We must also eat 
more of fat meat which we recognize as such, taking 
pains to cook it so that it will be palatable; the 
crisp, "brown outside of a roast is always welcome, but 
the fat of boiled beef or mutton will also be relished 
if served very hot. An excellent selection in low- 
priced beef, is the fat middle rib ; the lean part is 
very tender and juicy when cooked in water at a low 
temperature for two or three hours ( or in Heat Saver, 
see page 44, for three or four hours ) and the fat, if 
served hot, any but a pampered taste will relish. 
Too much cannot be said in praise of pork as furnish- 
ing a good tasting and cheap fat ; it can be cooked in 
many ways and used to flavor vegetables, etc. 
Digestibility of I^ is consoling to the economist to 
^t- know that little of this food prin- 

ciple will be wasted in the body. Fat is more com- 




Artificial Butter. 69 

pletely absorbed, according to the testimony' of the 
experimenters, than any other kind of food, even 
meat. 

We want to say a few words as to the character of 
different animal fats, and then we are done with this 
subject. 

All the fats consumed by us, without exception, are 
composed of three bodies called neutral fats, mixed 
together in varying proportions. These three bodies 
are "olein," **palmatin" (margarin ), and "stearin," 
and the chief difference between them is that they 
melt at different temperatures; the more olein a 
fat has, the more easily it melts, and the less it has, 
the more it is like tallow. In vegetable oils, we find 
in addition to these, small quantities of what are 
called ** fatty acids," and in butter we have beside the 
three common fats, a small per cent of four scarcer 
ones. 

Practically therefore, all fats are 
alike, and when absorbed they do 
the same work in the body, their varying flavors 
and their colors having nothing to do with this. 

However, their flavor, their appearance and the 
ease with which they melt in the mouth and in the 
digestive tract have much to do with our estimation 
of them as foods. Mutton fat will do our body the 
same service as butter, but because of the relatively 
small amount of olein it contains, we have diflBculty 
in swallowing it. 

As to the comparative digestibility of these fats, it 
is generally admitted that those which melt at a low 
temperature, like butter and vegetable oils, are most 



70 Artificial Butter. 

readily taken up by the system; it is thought that 
we could digest beeswax if it would melt in the 
stomach. Still, although butter stands in common 
estimation as the most digestible, as it is the most 
palatable of the fats, the stomach finds no trouble in 
disposing of reasonable amounts of any fat used in 
the household. 

The fact that all fats are so similar 

Artificial Biilter. . ... -> ,^ , •» t 

m composition, and that, if once di- 
gested, they will do the same service in the body, 
first led scientists to try to make out of the cheaper 
fats a substitute for butter. It was Napoleon III 
who set the chemist M^ge-Mourier at work to dis- 
cover an artificial butter for use in the army. This 
chemist added butter color and flavors made in the 
laboratory, to olein and margarin extracted from beef 
suet, and mixed with this a little real butter, and so 
successful was the result, that the making of artifi- 
cial butter has become a great industry. Now cer- 
tainly no one objects to artificial butter on the ground 
that it is made of animal fats, for he eats these every 
day on his table ; he objects because he has doubts as 
to the cleanliness or the healthfulness of its method 
of manufacture. 

Therefore since the substitution, to some extent, 
of animal fats for butter is from an economic stand- 
point so desirable, if we cannot bring ourselves to 
use oleomargarine we must do the best we can in 
these kitchen laboratories of ours to make other fats 
than butter acceptable to the taste. 



Uses of Fats. 



USES OF FATS. 



Beef Suet. 
Uses. 



Its Beef suet has many uses. It should be 
bought perfectly fresh, that surround- 
ing the kidneys being chosen as of the best quality. 
Chopped fine, it is used in suet puddings, and may 
be employed to enrich other puddings made of skim 
milk, as a rice pudding; it combines well with 
bread crumbs in any hot dish, in bread puddings, 
bread stuffing, bread omelet and soup balls. In all 
cases it must be chopped fine and cooked sufficiently 
to fully incorporate it with the other materials. 
Suet may also be used in many flour dishes instead 
of butter, if they are only cooked long enough and 
eaten warm, also in all cake where molasses and 
spices or any strong flavor is used. 

Every bit of marrow in bones should 
be scraped out and carefully used. Its 
taste is more delicate than that of suet, and it can be 
substituted for butter even in fine cake. 

Whatever butter you use in cooking 
should be cooked butter which may be 
prepared when butter is cheap and put away for 
winter use. So prepared it will keep as long as lard. 
A second quality of butter may be used for this, or 
that which is beginning to be rancid; if already so, 
add ^ teaspoon soda to each pound, but such butter 
when tried out will not keep as long as that made 
from sweet butter. In trying out butter great 
care must be taken not to bum it. Put it in a 
large iron kettle and cook it down very slowly until 
you no longer hear the sound of boiling ; it will then 
begin to froth and rise and this is a sure sign that 



Butter tried out. 



72 Preparation of Fats for Cooking. 

the process is completed. Set the kettle back to cool 
a few moments, then skim and pour off the butter 
from the dregs into jars. Keep in a cool place and 
closely covered. In any recipe use ^ less than of fresh 
butter. 

This should be done with even more 

Tried out Suet. , • i n i n n t-i , 

care, to avoid the tallowy flavor. iLxact 
directions are given in "Cooking Methods," page 41. 
The ''scraps" are often relished by children. 

This beef fat (which we decline to call tallow) 
should be put away in cakes in a jar closely covered. 
To use it, scrape it fine, sprinkling a 
little flour in it to keep it light. So 
prepared it may be used in any of the ways mentioned 
under "suet," and to this list still others may be 
added, since it does not need, as does suet, long cook- 
ing in order to mix it well with the other ingredients 
of the dish. It can be used successfully in warm 
breads of all kinds, and in all but the nicest cakes 
if mixed with ^ butter. 

Much of the lard now furnished is so 
poor, that unless one pays a high price 
to a well known dealer, it is better for each house- 
keeper to buy the leaf lard and try it out herself. 

Cut fine and cook all the water out, taking care not 
to burn. 

The " scraps " are even better than those left from 
suet and should by no means be thrown away. 

SAUCES FOR MEAT AND VEGETABLES. 

The economical and busy housewife says she has no 
time nor money for sauces, but the fact is she cannot 
afford to do without them. 



Sauces, 73 

All vegetables must have some fat to season them 
and to use butter in every case is extravagant and 
gives no variety, Avhile a cheaper fat if made into a 
sauce with flour and water, can be flavored in a dozen 
ways. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCES. 

Drawn butter, which is the foundation of most of 
the sauces is thus made. 

A heaping tablespoon of butter or beef 
^^°' fat is put into a saucepan; when it boils, 

1 heaping tablespoon flour is added and stirred as it 
cooks. To this add gradually 1 pt. of water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and \ teaspoon of pepper. If you wish to 
unite economy and good flavor use ^ tablespoon of 
beef fat in making the sauce, and add ^ tablespoon 
butter, cut in little pieces, just before serving. 

Milk sauce is the same, made with milk instead of 
water. 

In brown sauce, the fat and flour are stirred till 
they brown, then make as above. 

Any number of sauces can be made from these 
three by adding different flavors; chopped pickles and 
a tablespoon vinegar are added to No. 1 when it is to 
be used on fish; or mustard for mustard sauce. 

The addition of eggs raw or cooked makes another 
variety. 

With the help of milk we can make 
^™ a gravy as in "milk sauce," with beef 

or pork fat, seasoning with salt and pepper and per- 
haps some powdered herb. 

Children like all these gravies, if nicely made and 
flavored, to eat on bread as well as on vegetables. 
7 




74 Sauces. 

MEAT SAUCES. 

A few cheap sauces for meats alone deserve special 

mention. 

2 tablespoons green mint or spear mint 
sauce. chopped, 1 tablespoon sugar, ^ cup 
vinegar. Mix and let stand an hour or two. 

Boil 1 pt. fresh or canned tomatoes 
with a little onion, salt, and herb flavor- 
ing until quite thick, then strain and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of flour cooked in a teaspoonful of butter. 

Any sour fruit, as apples or plums. 

Fruit sauce. , n , i. i. ■i.x. 

makes an excellent sauce to eat with 

meat. Apple sauce goes especially well with pork. 
Horseradish ^^d to drawn butter or any meat 

sauce. gravy -J cup grated horseradish. Sim- 

mer a few minutes. 



OARBOHYDEATE - COl^TAIlSriNG 
FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We are now to furnish for the body the third great 
food principle, the carbohydrates. 'These we mean 
when we speak of the starches and sugars, and with 
unimportant exceptions, they are furnished by the 
vegetable world only. 

As we have seen, that troublesome 
CeUuioee. body, cellulose, plays here a large role. 

It is the skeleton, so to speak, of plants, built by them 
out of sugar and starch; the chemist finds no diflB- 
culty in his laboratory in turning it back into dextrin 
and sugar, and our stomachs too can digest a large part 
of the cellulose of very young and tender plants, — 
from 4:7^ to 62^ it has been found, of young lettuce, 
celery, cabbage and carrots, — but in older plants, the 
cellulose proper becomes all intergrown and encrusted 
with substances of a woody and mineral nature, from 
which even the chemist separates it with the greatest 
difficulty, while our digestive juices are entirely un- 
equal to the task. Therefore it is that the whole art 
of the cook is needed in treating this substance; she 
must soften it, she must break it up, and in many 
cases separate it as completely as possible from the 
sugars, starches and proteids which it hinders us from 
appropriating to our use. 

75 



76 Celluldse. 

In some cases, as in oatmeal and gra- 
ham flour, we leave the cellulose because 
of its mechanical action on the bowels. To be sure, 
this is a wasteful process, for the cellulose carries with 
it when it leaves the body considerable undigested 
food, but better this waste than to give the muscles 
of our intestines so little work to do that they be- 
come unable to digest any but fine, condensed foods. 

As a rule, however, we must think of cellulose 
not as a food at all, but as a tough, foreign body 
which we must reckon with before we can utilize the 
proteid and starch particles of many important vege- 
table foods. 

Amount of The carbohydrates, especially the 

Carbohydrate, starches, are the cheapest of the food 
constituents and therefore most apt to be in excess, 
especially in the food of the poor. According to 
estimates already given, an adult at average hard work 
gets along nicely with 1^ lbs. of carbohydrate mate- 
rial (meaning, of course, the dry amount of this one 
principle), though fortunately, as mentioned under 
''Fats," it is found that some of this large amount 
can be exchanged for fat, if the body, for any reason 
can better use the latter. Brainworkers and the 
richer classes the world over take less of carbohy- 
drates, at least in their starch form, and more pro- 
teids and fats. 

Inasmuch as we get these carbohydrates from the 
vegetable kingdom, and because the housewife must 
furnish them combined with other principles as in 
bread and other things made of flour, and in various 
dishes in which vegetables are combined with meat, 




Digestibility of Vegetable Foods. 77 

milk, eggs, etc., we will cease si)eaking of carbohy- 
drates as such, and will give a few hints as to how to 
prepare vegetable foods so that we can get the most 
out of them, bearing in mind, however, what has been 
said about not following out this principle to the ex- 
tent of weakening the bowels. 

To what extent This leads us, first, to examine the 
digested. general digestibility of the whole class 

of vegetable foods; meaning by this, not the rapid- 
ity nor the ease, but the extent to which the nutritive 
principle is yielded up to ns. It has been found that, 
as usually prepared, vegetable foods give up to us 
from i to ^ less of their nutrients than do animal 
foods, and especially is this true of those that are rich 
in proteids. To illustrate: a workman eats as part 
of his dinner a dish of boiled beans, but though he 
rightly considers that he has been eating a nourishing 
dish, he has really absorbed only 60^ of the nitrogen- 
ous substances contained in it, the other 40<i^ passing 
from him unused because of its intimate connection 
with the cellulose; at least this was the case with 
Prof. Strumpell who records the result of personal 
experiments on the digestibility of beans cooked whole. 
Now this workman digested of the meat part of his 
dinner 97^^, and this comparison shows how the 
tougher kinds of cellulose interfere with the absorp- 
tion of the food matters which they enclose. 

The starch part of vegetable food we seem to get 
out much better than the proteid part, even with our 
ordinary methods of cooking; thus out of cooked 
rice we get almost 99j^ of the starch, but only 80^ of 
what proteid it contains; flour in the form of noodles 



78 The Shady Side of Vegetable Diet. 

and macaroni yields up 98|^ of its starch and 80^ of 
its albumen, — in the form of bread a little less of each. 
The potato will give us only 75^ of what little pro- 
teid it contains, but as high as 92.5^ of its starch. 
Effect of too Although the starch-containing foods 

much starch are cheap and although they yield up a 

in the diet. , ■ » ^i • i -i- • • 

good per cent of this nutritive princi- 
ple, they must not be used to excess for the following 
reason. Starch must first be turned into sugar by our 
digestive juices before it can be taken up into the 
blood, and if the stomach is given more at a time 
than it can master, certain fermentations may take 
place, and digestion be influenced. The best author- 
ities say that without doubt the continued and severe 
diarrheas of small children are due to the fermenta- 
tion of starch foods for which their digestive organs 
are not yet ready. 

These fermentations, the irritating action on the 
bowels of too much cellulose, and the loss of a good 
deal of proteid substance connected with it form the 
shady side of a vegetable diet. Even the ox with his 
many stomachs gets out of grass and unchopped hay 
only 60^ of the proteid and 50^ of the fat contained 
in it. 

VEGETABLE PROTEIDS. 

Even in our part of the world two thirds of the 
proteid food of most people is taken from the vege- 
table kingdom, and in order to choose our food prof- 
itably, we must know where to look for vegetable 
proteids, and how to fit them for eating. Here the 
cereals and the legumes are our friends, the former 
furnishing from 7 to 14^ in their dried state, the lat- 



Grains. 



79 



ter giving the astonishing figure of 20 to 24^.; or as 
much as meat. 

GRAINS. 

The cereals or grains, though containing much less 
proteid than the legumes, are more valuable to us 
because of their excellent taste, their availability to 
the cook and the readiness with which when ground 
they yield us their nutrients. 

Since the grains are such important foods, a table 
is appended showing the average richness in food 
principles of those in common use among us. We 
find that different analyses of the same grain differ 
greatly from one other, barley for instance, ranging 
from 8 to 18^ in its proteid, and this mayjiccount for 
a certain grain being popular in one country and not 
in another. 

In our country we are especially fortunate in the 
cheapness and excellence of at least two of the grains, 
Wheat and In- Wheat and Indian Corn. The first 
dian Corn. has of coursc much higher food value, 
but the latter is so cheap and can be so easily cooked 
that it is a blessing to the poor. The large per cent 
of both proteids and fat in oats is to be 
noted, justifying as it does, the high 
esteem in which they are now held among us. At the 
other extreme is rice, the poorest of the 
grains in both these principles, but its 
almost perfect digestibility renders it very useful. 



Oata. 



Rice. 



80 



Atialysis of Grains. 



Analysis of -53 2 

Grains. o ^ 



Fine Wheat Flour lO. 1.0 

Eye Flour 11.5 3. 

Barley Grits 11. 1.5 

Oat Grits 14.5 CO 

Buckwheat FJour 9.5 2. 
Corn or Maize 

Flour 10.15 4.80 

Eice Grains 8. 1. 



62 

cSTJ 



75.2 
69.5 
71.5 
65. 

72.5 

68.45 
76.5 



GO 

% 
13. 
14. 
15. 
10. 
14. 

14. 
13. 



B 

O 

% 

0.3 
1.5 
0.5 
2.5 
1. 

2.6 
0.5 



Food Value. 



SUGAES. 

Most people would class sugar among the luxuries, 
and indeed we are best acquainted with it in those 
combinations with fruit, eggs, butter, and various 
flavoring matters, which, as puddings, pies, cakes, 
custards, etc., make up our dessert list. 

Our first concern, however, is with its 
food value. It gives us the high figure 
of 99^ of the third food principle, — Carbohydrates. 
That is, it must be put in the list with bread and it 
can be used to a certain extent instead of bread and 
other starch foods. Moreover, it is especially fitted 
for a food in cases where nourishment is needed im- 
mediately, as it is digested or absorbed into the sys- 
tem almost as quickly as water and without taxing 
the digestive organs, and perhaps on this account is its 
consumption so great in our country; we live fast, 
and we want our nutriment in a condensed form. 

But on account of its cost and because we are able 



Sugars. 81 

to take only a mo<ierate amoaut at a time, sugar can- 

'^ not, to any great extent, take the place of the 

starches; we are to value it chiefly for the relish it 

gives to other foods. As a flavor, it is 
Its chief value. , ,, . . i i . •» 

of the greatest value, but if we prize 

variety we are certainly accustomed to the taste of 

sugar in too many dishes, as in rice, custards, and 

various e^^ and bread dishes, which the foreigner 

would sometimes salt instead of sweeten, and eat with 

his meat instead of at the end of the meal. 

We would suggest that when we do use sugar, as in 

a pudding, for instance, that we use less of it than we 

are accustomed to do, for in that case we could eat 

enough of a dish so flavored to make it furnish more 

of the real substance of a meal. 

BEANSy PEAS AND LBKTILS. 

Per cent of Pro- Look again at the remarkable per 
cent of proteid given by this class of 
vegetables. Beans and peas, 23^, Lentils, 25^, while 
beef gives on the average only from 17 to 21^. By peo- 
ple who from choice or necessity live principally on 
vegetables, the legumes have always been largely used; 
their consumption is extensive in India, China, and 
in all of Europe. 

To be sure, the quality of the proteid is not the 

same as in meat, — it is less stimulating and palatable, 

and perhaps in other ways inferior, but the proteid 

^^ needs of the body can be answered by it, and that is 

H| a very important item when the question is one of 

^B economy. 

^K The impression that dried beans and 

^B ^* peas are "hearty" food, fitted for out- 



82 Peas, Beans and Lentils. 

door workers rather than for less vigorous people or 
those of sedentary habits, seems justified by the fact 
that these vegetables contain an unusually large per 

cent of cellulose of the tougher sort 
Cellulose. . . . 

which requires a long continued appli- 
cation of heat to free it from the proteid and starch 
of the vegetable ; indeed, unless it is broken fine or 
ground into flour, cooking, however long continued, 
will be insufficient. We have seen that Prof. Striim- 
pell digested only 40^ of the proteid of beans cooked 
in the ordinary way, but when they were ground to 
flour and baked he digested 91.8^ The fact is, we 

could cook and eat our wheat whole 
BeanMour. , ., ,, 

much more easily than we can our 

beans, and yet bean flour is not in the market, if we 
except the "prepared" sort in small, expensive pack- 
ages. It seems that the best we can do is to cook 
beans well and sieve them; in that way we free them 
from the skins at least. 

The dried and split pea, though as 
valuable as the bean and already freed 
from the skin, is not as much used among us ; it 
should be more employed in soups and as a vegetable. 
Lentils a few years ago were to be found only in 
large cities ; now they are more easily attainable. 
Their food value, as we have seen, is still greater than 
that of beans and peas, but the taste is not as agree- 
able until one becomes accustomed to it. An eco- 
nomist cannot afford to neglect the legume family. 

POTATOES. 

We in our country need not feel as bitter against 



Potatoes. ^ 

Ae potato as do the scientists of Europe, for. we are 
not obliged to use it to excess, and considering its cheap- 
ness and availability it is for us a good vegetable and on 
these accounts, though it makes a poor enough show- 
ing as to food value, we must rank it next to the bean 
in importance. It has only 25^ of proteids, no fat and 
only 20. 7$^ carbohydrates, and yet since it can be pre- 
pared in so many ways and we never tire of its mild 
flavor, it will doubtless continue to come upon our 
tables more frequently than any other vegetable. 
But every day or twice a day, in large amounts, is far 
too often; indeed those who use it to this extent must 
be ignorant of its relatively low food value. The 
quality of the potato is of great importance and none 
but the best should be used. It should be a mealy 
variety and perfectly ripe. 

GARDEN VEGBTABLES. 

Green vegetables, excepting the pea and bean, are 
not to be valued chiefly for what we can reckon up 
in them of proteids, fats and carbohydrates, for the 
amount is very small. Except in the height of the 
season they must be looked on as luxuries, but we will 
buy them as often as we can afford them. In quan- 
tities sufficient to flavor soups and stews they can 
always be afforded, and in this way should be freely 
used, carrots, celery, parsnips, and tomatoes, for 
example. 

FRUITS. 

Our markets offer us a great variety of fine fruits, 
and many of them are cheap in their se^ison; apples 
in the fall are within the reach of the very poorest. 



84 Fruits. 

Fresh fruits have a large per cent of water, as 
high as 89^ in the orange, and few fruits have less 
than 80^. Their food value is mainly in the form of 
sugar, apples giving us on an average 7.7^, grapes, 
14.3^; of proteids, the amount does not, with the 
single exception of the strawberry, reach 1^; but 
fruits are very useful to us on account of their flavor, 
due to various aromatic bodies, fruit acids and sugar. 
The apple is especially valuable on account of its 
cheapness and fine keeping qualities, and is used in a 
variety of ways by the cook to give a relish to plain 
materials. Although our largest use of them is in 
sweet dishes, they are perhaps quite as valuable used 
without sugar; they may be fried in slices and eaten 
with fat meat, as bacon or sausage, or they may be 
used to stuff a fowl. 

Fruit is not for all people easy of digestion if eaten 
in considerable quantities, and this is partly on ac- 
count of its relatively large per cent of woody fibre, 
and also, especially when not quite ripe, because of 
the acids and pectose contained in them. Huckle- 
berries have 12^ woody fibre, apples only 2j^ including 
the seeds and skin. 

The importance of dried fruits as food is not well 
enough understood. Fruit loses in drying a large 
portion of its water, leaving its nutritive parts in 
more condensed form for our use; dried apples are 
very near to bread in the per cent of nutrients they 
offer, and the dried pear may be called the date of Grer- 
many, so general is its use. With us this fruit is too 
expensive, but in parts of Germany the writer has 
seen dried pears commonly exposed for sale by the 



Cooking of Grains. 86 

oarrel like beaus; they are eaten in great quantities by 
the common people, who seem to digest them and 
dried apples without any trouble, accustomed as their 
stomachs are to a rye bread and vegetable diet. 
These dried fruits are made into a variety of dishes 
with meats, with potatoes and with beans and also 
with noodles and macaroni. 



Rice. To cook. 



Steamed. 



COOKING OF GRAINS. 

The grains may be cooked whole, coarsely ground, 
aa grits, and finely ground, as flour. 
Grains cooktxi All these grains can be cooked whole 
whole. but it is seldom done, because of the 

length of time required. Only rice and barley are 
generally so cooked. 

In cooking rice, the aim should be to 
have the grains distinct from each other, 
soft, dry and mealy. 

This is the best way. Add to the rice 
three times its bulk of water, salt well, 
put in a coveilBd dish in a steamer and steam ^ hour. 
Or, the rice may be soaked over night, and it will then 
steam soft in twenty minutes. 

Put the rice into a large quantity of 
boiling water, add one teaspoon salt to 
each cupful of rice; boil fast, stirring occasionally. 
Drain, dry out a little and keep warm by covering 
with a cloth, as is done with potatoes. Save the 
water poured off for soup. 

Its best use is as a vegetable with 
meat. Being of a bland and neutral 
character, it can, like bread, be made into an endless 



BoUocL 



Bioe. To use. 



86 Cooking of Grits. 

number of dishes to be eaten with meats, or into des- 
sert dishes, with sugar, fruits, etc. For rice omelette 
(see page 60), rice pudding (see pages 107 and 110). 

Grated cheese is a good addition to rice, supplying 
its lack of proteids and fat. 

Pearl barley Soak all night and boil soft in salted 

boued. water. It may also be steamed. Use 

as a thickening for soups, or like rice, as a vegeta- 
ble, or as a breakfast dish with sugar and milk. 

It is excellent mixed with its bulk of 

With prunes. , , -i i^ i 

stewed prunes; — pour over it melted 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. 

GEAINS, COARSELY GROUND, OR GRITS. 

These are better adapted to simple cookery than 
are fine flours, since to make them eatable it is only 
necessary to cook them soft in water. The grains 
used in this way among us are cracked wheat, farina or 
wheat grits, oatmeal, hominy and corn meal, and they 
are all cooked in nearly the same way. 

MUSHES. 

Wheat, oat and Ti7m 2-3 hours. This time may be 

corn musiies. , , , , , . ,, ., 

shortened by soaking the grits some 
hours in water. Oatmeal and corn cannot be over- 
cooked. 

Amount of Water. They all, except corn, absorb 
from three to four times their bulk of water; corn, a 
little over twice. 

Salt. One teaspoonful to one cupful of grits. 

Method of cooMng. Steaming is best, as there is 
then no danger of burning or of making the musb 



Mushes. 87 

pasty by stirring. Put the grits and four times their 
bulk of water into a double boiler or into a disli and 
set the dish into a steamer, or use a tin pail with 
tight cover, and set in a kettle of water; — any way to 
keeji it at boiling heat without burning. 
Uses for cold Porridge. Stir any cold cooked mush 
mushes. smooth with half water and half milk 

to the consistency of porridge. Add a little salt and 
boil up. Sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg may be 
added as flavor. Of course porridges can be also 
made of the uncooked grits, they are simply very thin 
mushes. 

Pancakes. 1 cup of cold oatmeal, hominy or corn 
mush, 2 cups flour, ^ pint of milk, ^ teaspoon salt, 
and 1 egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder or 1 of soda and 
2 of cream of tartar. Or, sour milk may be used with 1 
teaspoon soda, omitting the cream of tartar. These 
mushes will differ a little in thickness, and therefore 
more or less flour may be needed. Bake on griddle. 

Muffins. The same mixture as above, with the 
addition of a little more flour. Bake in muflfin rings. 

To Fry. For this, only corn mush and hominy 
are commonly used. When cooking, add a handful 
of wheat flour to the mush to make it stiffen Pack 
while warm into a square mould and when cold cut in 
slices and fry slowly to a nice brown on a griddle with 
a little fat. Or, the slices maybe dipped into beaten 
egg, then into bread crumbs, and fried in boiling fat. 

CORN FLOUR. 

There is one fine flour that can be treated in the 
same way as the coarsely ground, — that made from 



88 Corn and Graham Flour. 

Indian corn. Perhaps on account of its larger 
per cent of fat and because little of its albumen is 
in the form of gluten, it does not form into a sticky 
paste as does wheat flour, but can be mixed with water 
only and then boiled or baked into digestible and 
good tasting food, and this is one thing that makes 
corn so valuable a grain to people like the negroes of 
the southern states, whose cooking apparatus is of the 
most primitive sort. Corn meal has one peculiarity, — 
it quickly sours and should be kept no longer than a 
week. The kiln-dried meal, however, keeps indefinite- 
ly, and is now largely used, but is not as sweet as the 
freshly ground. The name " meal " seems to be used 
for both the fine and coarsely ground. 

This, whether made from fine or 

Corn mush. , , . ^ -i t■^ 

coarsely ground corn, is cooked like 
grits. See page 86. 

Hoe cake or corn 1 quart Indian meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 
pone. Moisten to a dough with boiling water 

or milk; let it stand a few hours till it shows air 
bubbles on the surface, then make into thick cakes 
and bake in the oven, or cut in slices and fry in pork 
fat on a griddle. Break, not cut, and eat hot. 

GRAHAM FLOUK. 

This preparation of wheat, though finely ground, 
may be treated somewhat like grits, and a bread may 
be made of it with the addition of water only which 
will be light and palatable. The secret of success is 
in having the oven very hot. 

Mix salted graham flour with cold 
ra am gems. ^^.^^^^^ ^^ ^ batter thick enough to drop, 

then put it into iron forms already heated, and bake 
in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes. ^ 



Fine Wheat Flour. 89 

PINE WHEAT FLOUB. 

Flour may be cooked, of course, in boiling water 
or milk, and in this way is used to thicken gravies or 
soups, and also to make a sort of mush with milk 
and eggs. See " Minute Pudding," page 107. 

The principle of cooking it in this case differs not 
at all from the cooking of a potato; in both cases the 
starch granules soak up the hot water till they burst 
their cellulose walls. But if we were to try to bake 
flour when wet up into a thick paste, we would find it, 
in the first place, difficult to accomplish, the heat being 
very slowly communicated from the surface to the 
interior, and when done, we would have only a tough 
indigestible mass. There is, however, one way of 
preparing such a paste for cooking, which we will con- 
sider before treating the " raising " of flour for bread. 
Flour dough is in this case kneaded hard, rolled thin 
and then dried. So treated we know it in the form of 

MACARONI AND NOODLES. 

^*"<»™°i- A trade article extensively used 

abroad where the best kinds cost only ten to twelve 
1^—^ cents a pound, and the broken or imperfect sticks 
IHS not more than seven. It is a valuable article of food, 

but its use will not become extensive among us while 

it is so dear. 
Like the fine flour of which it is principally com- 

j)osed it is deficient in fat, and must be eaten with 

the addition of butter, cheese or milk. 

How cooked. Put into plenty of salted boiling 

water, and boil twenty or thirty minutes, till it is 

jiej^ectly tender (if old it takes longer to cook). 



90 Macaroni and Noodles. 

Drain carefully, pouring it into a cullender or lifting 
out with a skimmer. 

1st. (Best.) Put it in the dish in 

To Use. . 

layers with grated cheese and butter. 
2d. Serve with milk and butter sauce. 
3d. Add two beaten eggs to the milk and butter 
sauce. 

Like bread and rice, macaroni when 

other Uses. i ^ • i • t x. \ e 

cooked IS made into a great number of 
dishes ; it is added to soups, it is mixed with meat in 
ragouts, and it is cooked with certain vegetables, as 
tomatoes. 

Arrange the macaroni in a pudding 

With Tomatoes. ,.,., .., , -, -, t 

dish m layers with grated cheese and 
stewed tomatoes. Brown in the oven. 

This is also a trade article, but that 
of home manufacture is much better. 
It may be called one of the German national dishes, 
so extensive is its nse among that people, with whom 
it often constitutes the main dish of a meal without 
meat. 

Ingredients. 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk or water, 
1 teaspoon salt, and flour. 

To make. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
put in the other ingredients and work to a stiff 
dough, then cut in 4 strips, knead each till fine grained, 
roll out as thin as possible arid lay the sheet out to 
dry. When all are rolled begin with the first, cut it 
into 4 equal pieces, lay the pieces together and shave 
off very fine as you would cabbage, pick the shavings 
apart with floured hands and let them dry a little. 

To use. Boil them a few at a time in salted water 

& 



Bread Making. 91 

taking them out with a skimmer and keeping them 
warm. Strew over them bread crumbs fried in but- 
ter or use like macaroni. (See page 90.) 

These noodles will keep indefinitely when dried 
hard, therefore when eggs are cheap they may be 
made and laid up for the winter. The water in which 
they are boiled is the basis of Noodle Soup; it needs 
only the addition of a little butter, a tablespoonf ul of 
chopped parsley and a few of the cooked noodles. 

Experimenters have proved that flour in the form 
of noodles and macaroni is more perfectly digested 
than even in bread. 

BREAD MAKING. 

Principles In- go far we have used in the cooking 

of flour no other principle than the 
simple application of water and heat. We must now 
consider how fine flour is to be made into what is 
known as bread. As before said, the particles easily 
pack together when wet into a pasty dough which, if 
so baked, would defy mastication and digestion. W'e 
must contrive in some way to separate these flour 
particles by forcing between them air or some other 
gas, so as to present as large a surface as possible to 
the action of the digestive juices and this may be done 
1st, By surrounding these particles by fat, as in mak- 
ing pie-crust; 2d, By the air contained in beaten 
egg; 3d, By forcing carbonic acid gas through the 
mass by the action of ( a ) yeast, or ( 6 ) of bi-carbo- 
nate of soda acting on some acid. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH FAT. 

Pie-cru«t. The familiar example of this method 

is pie-crust, where a paste of water and flour is re- 



92 Piecrust and Egg-Raised Breads. 

peatedly rolled and spread with some fat, as lard, until 
the paste is in paper-thick layers with the fat between. 
When baked, the air expands and separates the flour 
particles, a true lightness being the result. 

So much fat must be employed to produce this re- 
sult, however, that the use of this method will of course 
be limited to the construction of dessert dishes, of 
which not much is eaten at once. 

A flour rich in starch is better for this purpose 
than a gluten flour. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH EGG. 

The next most simple method of cooking fine flour, 
is to introduce between its particles the air adherent 
to beaten egg, and by the immediate application of 
heat to expand the air and stiffen the mass thus ae- 
rated. By this method none of the food principle 
is wasted as when yeast is used, nor is a chemical salt 
left in the dough as in the action of soda, but the 
method is expensive and is limited in its use to what 
may be called fancy breads and cakes. 

We have selected the following mixture as the 
foundation for Qgg breads; of course others are pos- 
sible: 

Foundation of 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon but- 
egg breads. ter and 1 teaspoon salt. 

This mixture is then thickened with any kind of 
flour, or with part flour and part bread, boiled rice, 
boiled hominy or corn mush. 

To mix. First beat the eggs very light, whites and 
yolks separately, then the yolks smoothly with the 
flour and milk, stir the whites in at last very lightly 



Yeast Breads. 83 

• 

and bake immediately. The eggs must be beaten 
very light, and the batter just of good pouring con- 
sistency, thinner than if no eggs were used. 
Wheat, Graham Add to above foundation mixture a 
"^^J^"^' scant pint of either of these flours. 
Add to the foundation mixture one 
Hominy or cupof flouF and twocupsof boiled rice, 
Corn MiMh hominy or corn mush ( or the propor- 
Pancakes. ^.^^^ ^^^ ^ reversed ). Bake in small, 

rather thick cakes. If they stick to the griddle add 
a little more flour. 

Add to the foundation mixture 1 cup 
Bread Pancakes. ^^^^ ^^^ ^ cups bread crumbs that 

have been soaked soft in milk or water and mashed 
smooth. The batter should be rather thick. Bake 
in small cakes adding more flour if they stick. 
Muffins and Muffius and waffles of all sorts are 

Waffles. made like pancakes, but a little stiffer 

with flour. 

Other egg-raised doughs, mixed in 
otheregg oug ^somewhat different proportions and 
differently cooked, as fritters, sponge cakes and bat- 
ter puddings, will be found in another section. 

FLOUR RAISED WITH CARBONIC ACID QA8. 

This is brought about by ( a ) the growth of the 
yeast plant or by the action ( J ) of bicarbonate of soda 
on some acid. Both of these methods have their ad- 
vantages. 

The action of the yeaat plant when 

**" * brought into contact with flour and 

water is to develop carbon dioxide gas and alcohol, 
lis it does at the expense of the little sugar already 



94 White Bread. 

in the flour, but still more at the expense of that 
which it manufactures out of the starch, or as some 
say, out of the gluten. The chemist ascertains this 
loss of nutritive matter to be as high as 1^, and Lie- 
big, who was strongly opposed to this metliod of 
bread raising, estimated that 40,000 people might be 
fed on the flour that was wasted in this way in Ger- 
many alone. But notwithstanding this waste, the 
method, on account of its convenience and the good 
taste it gives to bread, still holds its ground. 

The time cannot be far distant when the baker will 
furnish us better and cheaper bread than we can 
make in our own kitchens. This has long been the 
case on the continent of Europe, but for some reason 
we have not yet reached that point in civilization 
and the housekeeper must still learn this art and 
practice it, for good bread is a necessity. 

The best flour is, even for the poor. 

Quality of flour. , i , j. -x i j i, i. 

the cheapest, as it makes more and bet- 
ter bread to the pound. There should always be two 
kinds kept on hand; the yellowish, high-priced gluten 
flour for bread making, and the whiter, cheaper sort 
for pastry, cake and thickenings. 

No recipe for making yeast will be given, as the com- 
pressed yeast is so much better than the house-wife 
can make, and is now obtainable even in small towns. 
Proportions. 1 quart warm water, 

To make bread. _, , ,, \ » n -, j. ti 

2^ qts. (about) of flour, 1 tablespoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon or one cake of compressed yeast, or 
i cup liquid yeast. The proportions of flour and 
water differ according to the quality of the flour, the 
gluten flours taking up much more water than the 
starch flours. 



While Bread. 



95 



I 



Put the flour and salt into your bread pan and 
naake a hole in the middle, then pour in gradually the 
water in which the yeast has been dissolved, mixing 
as you pour with your hand or with a spoon. As 
soon as the mass will hold together, take it out on a 
moulding board and with floured hands work it grad- 
ually into a tender dough, using as little flour as possi- 
ble, for the dough must remain as soft as can be 
handled. This first moulding should take from 15 
to 20 minutes. Then let the bread rise in a warm 
place ; the yeast plant can live in a temperature 
ranging from 30° to 170° F. but thrives best at about 
72°. Cover with a cloth and in winter keep by a warm 
stove. If made with compressed yeast, the dough will 
rise the first time in an hour. Take it at its first 
lightness, before it begins to sink back (it should be 
like a honeycomb all through, and double or treble 
its original bulk), put it on your moulding board, or 
-J of it at a time, and mould it well until it is fine 
and tender again. Add no flour this time but keep 
the hands moist with warm water or milk or with 
lard. Divide into loaves — small ones — which should 
only half fill the greased tins, and set again to rise, 
keeping it at the same temperature and letting it get 
very light again. Flour tiiat is rich in gluten requires 
longer to rise than that containing more starch. 

It is difficult to give directions about 
°* ■ the heat of the oven. One housekeeper 
says " hot enough so that you can hold your hand in 
till you count twelve," another, "until you can count 
thirty," and the puzzled novice can only inquire 
"how fjist do you count ?" The oven must be hot 



96 White Bread. 

enough to brown the bread lightly in ten minutes, 
and to bake a small loaf in from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. 

If more convenient, a bread sponge 

Additional facts. , , a_ n i^ -ii xi ^ 

may be made at nrst with the water, 
yeast, and part of the flour, and when light, the rest 
of the flour added. It hastens the process a little. 
How many times Do not let the bread rise more than 

shall bread rise? twice; it loscs each time some of its 
nutritive qualities. Bread raised once is coarse of 
grain but sweet to the taste. 
To keep bread Mould it harder than you do bread 

long. that is to be eaten soon. 

Dough that has ^^t the bread pan immediately into 

become chiued. a larger one filled with warm water and 
as the water cools replace with warm until the dough 
begins to rise again. 
Dough raised du- This method is often convenient, and 

ring the night, does Very Well if slowcr yeast is used, 
but bread is better to be raised quickly with com- 
pressed yeast. If the latter is used a forenoon is suf- 
ficient for the process of making and baking. 
„ , , ,, For convenience, as to make warm 

To delay the _ ' _ _ 

baking of bread biscuits for supper, rising dough may 
dough. ijg kept at a standstill for hours with- 

out injury at a temperature of about 50°, as in a cel- 
lar, and an hour before baking brought into a warm 
room to finish the rising process. 

BREADS FROM OTHER FLOURS. 

^ , ^ , Graham bread is made like white 

Graham bread. 

bread using two parts graham to one 

of white flour, or any other proportion liked, but it 



I 



Brown Breads. 97 

should be mixed very soft. A little sugar and fat 
should be added, 1 tablespoon lard or beef fat and 2 
tablespoons sugar or molasses. Bake slower and long- 
er than white bread. 

The usual and most convenient way of making 
graham bread is to mix the flour and other ingredi- 
ents with some of the white sponge on baking day. 

Rye bread is made exactly as is bread 
^ from wheat flour, but in this country 

4 parts rye, 1 part corn meal, and a handful of wheat 
flour are generally used. It must bake much longer 
— two to three hours in a slow oven. It is still better 
steamed the first two hours and baked the third. 

Corn bread is made of 3 parts corn 
meal to 1 of wheat flour, same quantity 
of yeast and salt as for white bread, and an addition 
of 2 tablespoons lard or beef fat and two tablespoons 
sugar. It is only to be stirred, not moulded, and need 
rise but once. 

BISCUITS, BUNS, ETC. 

Breakfaat rolls or These are "little breads" of either 
biscuits* 

white or graham flour. Make part of 

the dough out into little balls which will rise more 

quickly and bake in a shorter time, a little butter 

or lard, one tablespoon to a quart of dough being 

generally moulded with it. 

When called " Breakfast Rolls" the dough is made 

out into flat round cakes, the top buttered and folded 

over not quite in the middle. 

Milk rolls are made from bread dough 

mixed with milk instead of water; they 

very tender and delicate. 

9 



98 Biscuit, Buns, Etc. 

Wheat gems or One modification in the baking of 
drop biscuits, dougli is wortlij of mention. Use about 
a cup more milk in mixing the receipt for bread 
given above, so that the dough will just drop from a 
spoon and then bake in forms in the oven, or on a slow 
griddle. 

These are made from bread dough 

Rusks . . . 

mixed with milk and with the addition 
of 4 eggs and 1 cup of butter to a quart of milk. 
Form, long and high. 

other uses for There are many uses for the above 
rusk dough, dough. When made out into biscuit 
shape it may be steamed and eaten as a simple pud- 
ding with fruit, or, made into tiny balls and cooked, 
when light, in a meat stew, the dish being then 
called a pot-pie. 

These are like Rusks (above) plus 2 

Buns, plain. , , ,., ,, . , 

cups of sugar and a little spice, say, -^ 
teaspoon nutmeg. Roll the dough out ^ inch thick, 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let it rise till very 
light, which will take some time on account of the 
sugar. 

To plain buns add 1 cup India cur- 
rants, washed, dried and floured, or 
raisins cut in bits. 

From the recipe for Buns, as above, 
a plain and good cake may be made by 
using 1 pint instead of 1 quart of milk to the given 
quantity of eggs, butter and sugar, and adding a lit- 
tle more fruit. Bake in a ribbed pudding dish 
which has been thickly buttered, and in the butter, 
blanched almonds arranged in rows. 



Yeast Pmicahes. 99 

Bun dough may also be fried in fat, 

Dougbauta. i i ^ 

as doughnuts. 

Foraflnebrowu '^^ g'^'© ^ fil^6 Crust to bisCuit 01' 

crust. buns: Brush over before baking, with a 

feather dipped in one of these mixtures: one teaspoon 
of molasses and milk, two teaspoons of sugar and 
milk, or three teaspoons sugar and the white of an 

egg- 
To show the true relation of the above doughs to 
each other, the quantity has been kept the same as 
for bread dough, but one-half the given quantity 
of cake, buns or biscuit would be enough for a large 
family. 

Any of the above doughs can be 

To steam bread. ii, , -ii^ii- 

cooked by steaming instead of baking, 
when more convenient. They will of course lack the 
brown crust, but may afterward be dried or browned 
in the oven. A somewhat longer time is required 
for steaming than for baking. 

YEAST BREADS — THIN. 

Raised Pancakes. The materials for these are, 1 qt. milk, 
and Corn. ^^ milk and water, a little more than a 
qt. of flour, 1 tablespoon compressed 
yeast or \ cup liquid yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon butter; the flour may be wheat flour, wheat 
and graham mixed, or wheat and corn mixed, or 
part bread crumbs may be mixed with the flour. 
Make and raise like bread sponge. It is better they 
should be too thick than too thin, as milk may be 
added to thin them afttn* they are light, but raw flour 
added at that time spoils them. 



100 Soda Raised Breads. 

Pancakes with -A-dd to the above batter just before 
efi^ifs. baking, 1, 2 or 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

Muffins and beaten separately. Use in this case some- 
waffles. ^}jat less flour. 

These can be made of either of the above pancake 
batters, with 1 cup to 1 pt. more flour. 

BUCKWHEAT FLOUE. 

Buckwheat flour makes bread that is relished by 
those accustomed to its somewhat peculiar taste, but 
in this country it is used only in pancakes. 
Buckwheat Pan- 1 qt. buckwheat flour, 1 teaspoon 
cakes. gait, 1 cup or less of corn meal scalded 
in a little water, 2 teaspoons molasses ( to make them 
brown — a little buttermilk answers the same pur- 
pose), 1 tablespoon compressed yeast, 1 qt. warm 
water, or enough to make a thin batter. Let rise 
over night. 

FLOUE EAISED WITH SODA. 

Soda. On the interaction of bicarbonate of 

soda and different acids, by which carbonic acid gas 
is liberated is based a common method of raising 
doughs. It wastes none of the flour, as does yeast, 
but it has its own disadvantages. The product of 
these chemicals acting on each other is a salt which 
is left in the bread; hydrochloric acid acted on by 
soda gives common salt, to which there could be no 
objection, but this method is not easily used in the 
household, and the salts left by other acids, as the lac- 
tic acid of milk when acted on by bicarbonate of soda, 
we get enough of in other dishes. Whether reliable 
experiments have been made as to the comparative 



Soda Raised Breads. 101 

digestibility of breads raised with soda and those 
raised with yeast the writer does not know, but there 
is a wide-spread impression that the former should 
be eaten only occasionally, and it is certain that we 
tire of them sooner than of yeast breads. Besides, 
which is of importance to one who must economize in 
milk, eggs, &c., better materials must be used with 
soda than with yeast to produce an equally rich tasting 
bread or cake. 

METHODS. 

We have three methods of using bicarbonate of 
soda to raise flour; by its action on 

1. The acid contained in sour milk, from 1 to 2 
teaspoons of soda being used to a quart of milk. 

2. On cream of tartar, the proportions being 1 tea- 
spoon soda to 2 of cream of tartar to a quart of flour. 

3. On tartaric or other acids already mixed with it 
in a baking powder and to be used according to di- 
rections on the package, or, one may say in general, 
that three teaspoons of the powder go to every quart 
of flour. 

The secret of success in making soda 

Secret of Success. .,, , ■ ^ • , , ^ ,^ 

raised breads consists in ( 1 ) the per- 
fect mixing of the soda and cream of tartar or the 
baking powder, with the flour, cooks who are par- 
ticular sieving these ingredients five times. In this 
connection we cannot urge too strongly that each 
housewife should make and keep on hand this pre- 
pared flour; in a leisure time she can measure, sieve 
and mix it, and she has then in making biscuit or cake, 
only to chop in the batter, add the milk and eggs 
and it is done. 



102 ISoda Biscuits. 

2. In light mixing of the shortening with the flour; 
this is best accomplished with a chopping knife. 

3. In a rapid completion of the work after the two 
raising agencies have become wet and begun to work, 
and no delay in baking when all is ready. 

Ingredients. 1 qt. of flour, 1 tea- 

Soda Biscuits. ii.-ii.i,i -u n. i, 

spoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, or but- 
ter and lard, or butter and suet, 1 scant pint siveet 
milk or water with 1 teaspoon soda and two of cream 
of tartar, or three teaspoons of baking powder; or, 1 
scant pint sour milk with 1 teaspoon soda and 1 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar; if the milk be very sour omit 
the cream of tartar. 

To make. In a chopping bowl stir all well together 
except the shortening and milk, then chop in the 
shortening which should be cold and hard, till all is 
fine and well mixed. Now add the milk a little at a 
time, still mixing with the chopping knife. Take 
out on the moulding board and roll out with as little 
mixing as possible. 

This dough is often made richer, even 1 cup of 
butter to 1 qt. of flour being used, but so much as 
this can only be considered extravagant and un- 
■"healthful. 

To use this dough. Roll 1 in. thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter and bake. To 
be eaten warm with butter. 

As Graham Bis- Use three parts graham flour to one 
euits. of wheat and treat in same manner. 

Roll -^ in. thick, fit into jelly cake 

As Short Cake. , . t i i tTn • i i i 

tins and bake. vVhen niceJy browned, 
split and butter and pile up like toast. 

For fruit short cake (see pages 108 and 109.) 



Soda Raised Pancakes. 103 

SODA BREAD OF CORN MEAL. 
Corn Bread, or 1 ^Up SWect tnilk, 1 CUp 80Ur Or but- 

johnnycake. temiilk, or both of sour milk, 1 tea- 
1. Plain. spoon Salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 table- 

spoon butter or suet or lard, 3 cups Indian meal, and 
1 of wheat flour, or all of Indian meal. Pour into a 
tin and bake 40 minutes. 

., ^^^^^ The same with an egg and \ cup sugar 

added, 
ery oe. ^^^ ^^ ^.^j^ ^^^ addition of 3 eggs, \ 

cup sugar and ^ cup butter, 1 cup meal being omitted. 

SODA RAISED BREAD— THIN. 

Pancakes without Eggs. 
1. Of Wheat Ingredients. 1 qt. flour, 1 teaspoon 

salt, and 1 scant qt. sour milk, with 2 
level teaspoons soda and the same of cream of tartar 
unless the milk is very sour, when omit the cream of 
tartar. Sweet milk can also be used with 1 teaspoon 
soda and 2 of cream of tjirtar, or 3 of baking powder. 

To make. Mix the salt and cream of tartar if used, 
with the flour. Make a hole in the middle and pour 
in the milk gradually, stirring with a spoon till smooth. 
Then beat hard for 5 minutes, or till it is bubbly. Add 
the soda dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, and bake 
immediately on a very hot griddle. 

Unless well beaten before the soda is added, these 
pancakes without eggs are not a success. 

If made with sour milk they will be still better, if 
when mixed ( without the soda, of course) the batter 
is left to stand twelve or even twenty-four hours. 



104 Soda Raised Pancakes. 

Just before using add the soda dissolved in a little 
hot water. 

2. Of Graham ^^e made in the same way, 1 part 

Flour. being of white flour and 3 parts graham. 

3. Of Corn -^8 above, with corn meal instead of 

Meal. graham. 

Pancakes with Eggs. 
Ingredients. To any of the 3 preceding recipes add 
2 or 3 eggs, beating yolks and whites separately. 

Muffins and Waffles. 
Muffins and waffles of all kinds are the same as pan- 
cakes, made a little thicker and with the addition of 
1 tablespoon of butter. 

Fritters. 
For fritters, which should be next in order (see page 
113). 



m BREAD. 



^hese are so nnmerons that the housekeeper need 
never fear the accumulation of stale bread, if she will 
only take care of it in time. Every day the bits left 
from meals and the dry ends of the loaf 
^ must be dried hard in the oven and then 

put away in paper bags. If time allows, pare off the 
crusts, cat into cubes and dry separately to add to 
soups. 

This dried bread will keep for weeks or months — 
it must simply be kept clean and dry. In any recipe 
where bread-crumbs are called for, as bread pudding 
or bread omelet, use this dried bread, laying it first 
in cold water till it is soft, then pressing it dry in a 
towel and crumbling it lightly with the hand. 

Here are a few of the ways in which bread can be 
used. 

USES FOB BREAD IN SLICES. 

T^oast. In dry toast, milk toast, and water 

toast, to be eaten as such and as a foundation for 
many other dishes. 

Fried toast — bread slices soaked in egg and milk, 
or water, and fried on a griddle with a little fat. (See 
page 60). Cold milk or water toast may be so used. 
Fritters. For Bread Fritters (see page 114). 

105 




106 Uses for Bread. 

Puddings. For bread and butter pudding (see page 

111). 

Stale bread may be cut in slices and 
steamed Bread. , ^ , ■', 

Steamed so as to taste sweet and good. 

Set the slices up on end in the steamer and steam 5 

or 10 minutes, then diy a little in an oven. 

Bread Biscuits of all sorts, even when sev- 

Rebaked. gral days old, may be made nearly as 

good as when fresh, by wetting the tops and setting 

in a hot oven for about five minutes. A convenient 

way of having warm biscuits for breakfast. 

USES FOR CRUMBS OR DRIED BREAD. 

Soaked and crumbled as described on page 105 and 
use in bread dough instead of half the flour. 

In bread omelettes (see page 60). 

In meat balls for soups and stews (see page 127). 

In bread dressing. Pour enough hot water on dry 
bread to soften it and chop it not too fine ; season 
with chopped onion, herbs and suet or tried out fat. 
The addition of an &gg is an improvement. Bake 
covered, about an hour, then uncover and brown. 
This mixture may also be used for stuflfing a fowl, leg 
of mutton, &c. ; or it may be fried in spoonfuls on a 
griddle and eaten with a sweet sauce as the simplest 
form of pancakes. 

In bread pancakes (see page 93). 

In bread puddings (see pages 109, 110 and 111). 

For breading chops, croquettes, &c. , that are to be 
fried in boiling fat. 



SIMPLE SWEET DISHES 



This department does not pretend to be complete, 
it simply aims to classify as many of the cheaper kinds 
as the ordinary family needs. These will generally be 
used as desserts but there is no reason why the main 
dish of the meal should not have some sugar in it. I 
remember that in a simple pension in Thuringia, Ger- 
many, I once ate of a dinner consisting of a soup, a 
salad and one other dish, which we would call a bread 
pudding. I was helped bountifully to this main dish 
of the meal, I ate and was satisfied, for the materials 
were good and it was well made and delicately baked. 
The recine will be found on page 110. 

MILK PUDDINGS. 

Indian pudding. 1 qt. of milk, | cup com Mical, 1 tca- 
spoon salt, ^ cup chopped suet, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
^ cup molasses. Bake covered for 3 hours in very 
slow oven and serve with sweet sauce. 
Swelled rice 1 ^t- skim milk or 1 pt. full milk and 

pudding. 1 pt. water, -^ cup rice, 2 tablespoons 

sugar, ^ teaspoon salt. Bake slowly 2 hours covered, 
then uncover and brown. It will be a creamy mass 
and delicious in taste. Serve without sauce. Raisins 
may be added. 

Minute puddinir IngvediefUs. 1 qt. milk - skim milk 
of wheat or with 1 teaspoon butter will do — 2 eggs, 
graham flour. | p^ ^^^^^ j teaspoon Salt. To pro- 
107 



108 Fruit Puddings. 

vent burning make in double boiler or pail set in 
a kettle of boiling water. Mix the flour and egg 
smooth with part of the milk, heat the remainder to 
boiling and stir in the Qgg and flour. Stir till it 
thickens, then let it swell and cook slowly for 15 min- 
utes. Serve with fruit, or with sugar and milk. 
^ . ,,. Ingredients. 1 pt. water, 1 pt. milk, 

Fanna pudding. _, , i, , , „ ■ 

1 teaspoon salt, ^ pt. farma, 3 eggs. 
Make as above. 

This is excellent cut in slices when cold and fried 
brown on a griddle. It may also be made without 
eggs. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. fresh buttermilk, 

Buttermilk n j. ^ ^ ■, 

pudding. 3 tablespoons cream or butter, 1 tea- 

spoon salt, a pinch of soda, and flour for 
stiff batter. Steam 2 hours, or till it bursts open, 
or bake in little cups or patties. May be eaten with 
any fruit sauce or with milk and sugar. 



FEUIT PUDDIN"GS WITH SODA BISCUIT DOUGH. 

For this dough, see page 102. 

Shortcakes, 



When baked as short cake, split the 



cakes and spread between each pair 

strawberries mashed and sweetened. 

other fruit short- ^^ the same Way make shortcake of 

cakes. berries of any sort, stewed apples, stewed 

pieplant, lemon or orange tart filling, in short, any 

filling for a pie, that is ready to eat without further 

cooking. These should be eaten warm but not hot, 

and are as good next day, if put in the oven long 

enough to become again warm and crisp. 

Eoiy Poly pud- Thcsc favoritc dishes are but modifi- 

ding and apple cations of the fruit shortcakc. In the 

dumpling. gj.g^ ^jjg (^(j^^j^ lg jj^^^g j^^g^ g^-ff enough 



I 



Pruii Puddings. 109 

to roll oat, covered with apples or berries or- other 
fmit, then rolled up and put to bake in a pan contain- 
ing a little water. 

For apple dumplings, the cmat is cut in squares, 
sliced apples placed in the middle, then the comers 
gathered up and pinched together. Bake like Roly 
Poly pudding, or steam. 

If you wish to cook your fruit at the 
same time with the crust, fill a deep 
pie plate with fruit, as apples, and cover with the 
rolled out shortcake. Bake brown, and when done 
lift the crust, sweeten the fruit, replace the crust, and 
the "pie" is ready to serve. 

Raised biscuit or bun dough (see page 98), can be 
used in the same way, or still better, yeast pancake mix- 
ture (see page 99), in layers with any sort of fruit. 

If you will call these fruit shortcakes "pies," and 
be content therewith, you will save much labor, much 
expensive material, and set before your family a more 
healthful dish. No farther recipes for pies will be 
given; a few that are generally classed as such, com- 
ing more naturally under the head of puddings. 

FBUrr PUDDINGS WITH BREAD. 

L Brown Betty. Ingredients. 1 pt. bread crumbs, or 
dry bread moistened, 1 qt. chopped sour apples, \ pt. 
sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 4 tablespoons butter or 
suet 

Arrange bread and apples in layers in a pudding 
dish, beginning and ending with the bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with the sugar and spice and 
spreading the butter over the top. Cover it till the 
apples are soft, then uncover to brown. 



110 Custard Puddings. 

The same, made with raspberries or 

3. Berry Betty. . 1 l u • tj? x • • i 

blackberries. If not juicy enough, a 
little water must be added. A pudding may be made 
in the same way with cherries or any other well fla- 
vored fruit. 

CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

1. Plain. Ingredients. 1 qt. milk, 4 eggs, beaten 

yolks and whites separately, 4 tablespoons sugar, a 
grating of nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Bake in a 
buttered pudding dish till solid, and take from the 
oven before it curdles. 

3. Rioe and cus- To above ingredients add \ cup of 

tard. rice cooked soft in part of the milk, or in 

water. Bake -J to f of an hour, till nicely browned. 

This is the foundation for the many varieties of rice 

puddings. Raisins may be added. 

3 _ Tapioca and Sago puddings are made 

in the same way, except that they must 

4. Sago. i^g soaked for 2 hours in part of the 
milk or in water. 

Indian and cus- To the ingredients for plain custard 
tard pudding, pudding add 1 pt. of corn meal and an 
extra cup of milk, 1 teas])oon salt, 1 teaspoon gin- 
ger, \ cup sugar and \ cup chopped beef suet or 2 
tablespoonf uls tried out fat. Scald the meal first in 
the milk and bake the pudding, covered, two hours 
in slow oven. 

BREAD AND CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

1. Bread pudding 1 qt. boiling milk pourcd on as much 
or "Semmei bread — as will absorb it, about 1 pt. if 
era so . \^qx^ — 4 eggs, \ teaspoon salt, \ cup 
sugar. 




Bread and Custard Puddings. Ill 

The milk and bread are allowed to get cold ajid the 
other ingredients well beaten with it, the eggs being 
beaten_Beparately, and the whites added last. Bake 
one hour in a buttered dish. Eat without a sauce. 

Of course a bread pudding can be made with fewer 
eggs, but then it will hardly do for the main dish of 
a meal. 

8. Bread pudding Dried bread soaked soft in cold water 
( simple), and pressed dry in a cloth, milk to make 
it into a soft mush. Add 1 beaten egg to a pint of 
the mixture. Bake from half an' hour to an hour 
and eat with sweet sauce. 

With raisiDs. Raisins or currants or fresh fruit, as 

cherries, may be added. 
With drifed After putting in ^ the pudding mix- 

appies. ture, put a thick layer of stewed dried 

apples mashed and sweetened, and flavored with 
orange peel or cinnamon. 
Bread and butter -^ Convenient variation on the ordi- 

puddiny. nary bread pudding. 
i*'*^ Spread thin slices of bread with but* 

ter, and pour over them a simple custard, viz. : 4 eggs 
to 1 qt. of milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt. 
Keep pressed down till the custard is absorbed; Bake 
slowly till firm and brown. Eat with or without 
sauce. 

The bread slices may be spread with 

with fruit. - ,. , ix. y- A * 

India currants, or with any kind of 

fresh or dried cooked fruit, not too juicy. 

Individual bread Cut small Tound loaves of bread into 

puddings. quarters, or use biscuits. Soak in a 

mixture of 4 eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separate- 



112 Suet Puddings. 

ly, and added to 1 pt. of milk with a little sugar 
and nutmeg. When they have absorbed all they 
will without breaking, drain and bake in slow oven 
to a nice brown, spreading a little butter over once 
or twice at the last. This dish can be made very 
pretty by putting currants in the holes around the 
top and sticking in pieces of blanched almonds. 

SUET PUDDINGS. 

Ingredients, i pt. beef suet, chopped fine, ^ pt. 
molasses, ^ pt. mi!k, ^ pt. raisins or currants, or both. 
(A part of the fruit may be figs and prunes cut in 
bits.) 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda mixed with 
the molasses, 1 pt. bread crumbs (dry), 1 pt. graham 
flour and 2 eggs. Steam 3 hours or bake 2. 
Eat with a lemon sauce. 

Use the above recipe, omitting the 
™ * eggs and using instead of graham flour 

and bread crumbs If pt. white flour. 
To reheat pud- All the preceding puddings are good 
dings. reheated. Cut in slices, and warm in 

the oven, or fry in a little butter in a pan. Sift sugar 
over and eat with sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 pt. water made into a smooth starch with a heap- 
ing tablespoon flour. Cook 10 minutes, strain if nec- 
essary, sweeten to taste and pour it on 1 tablespoon 
butter and juice of a lemon or other flavoring. If 
lemon is not used add 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

This can be made richer by using more butter and 
sugar; stir them to a cream with the flavoring, then 
add the starch. 




Fritters. 

FRITTERS. 

These are various doughs and batters fried in boil- 
ing fat, and eaten warm with sugar or a sweet sauce. 
The hot fat gives a puffy lightness and a delicious 
crisp crust. 

Lard is most generally used, but cooking oil (see 
page 41) is better, and even beef fat prepared as (see 
same page) is good. The fat must be smoking hot to 
prevent its soaking into the dough. For the same 
reason batters so cooked must contain more egg than 
if they were to be baked. 

The fritter may be rolled out and cut 
in shapes, or dropped in spoonfuls or 
run through a funnel, being, of course, mixed of dif- 
ferent consistency for each method. When nicely 
browned, take out with a wire spoon and lay on brown 
paper, which will absorb the fat, then sprinkle with 
sugar and send to table. 

Soda raiaed Ingredients. 1 pt. flour (^ may be 

fritters. graham), ^ teaspoon salt, I teaspoon oil, 

butter, or lard, 1 egg and ^ pt. sour milk with ^ tea- 
spoon soda, or same of sweet milk with \ teaspoon soda 
and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Beat the egg, white 
and yolk separately, adding the white last of all. 

Drop from a spoon into boiling lard; or, omit nearly 
half the flour and pour through a funnel. 

This batter may be also raised with yeast. 
Eg» raiapd These are more crisp and delicate, 

fritters. If liked very light, soda or cream of 

tartar or baking powder may be added to these also. 
These batters are thinner than the preceding; they 
mast be well beaten if no soda is used. 
10 



114 Fritters. 

1. Ingredients. 1 scant pt. of flour, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, ^ pt. milk, 1 teaspoon oil or butter. 

Beat the yolks well, then again well with the flour 
and milk, add the stiffly beaten whites last. Fry in 
spoonfuls. 

2. Ingredients. 1 heaping pt. flour, 4 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon oil or butter, 1 teaspoon salt, about a pint 
of water, or enough to make the batter a little thicker 
than for pancakes. Proceed as before. 

1 tablespoon of lemon juice may be 

Additions. -\ -i n l j> i i ^ 

added to any of the above recipes, or a 
little nutmeg or cinnamon if liked. 

Take sour apples, peel, cut out the 

Fmit fritters . 

core neatly and slice round in slices \ 
in. thick. Soak these a few hours in sweetened wine, 
lemon juice or other flavoring. Dip in either of the 
above batters and fry. (They are also very good with- 
out being soaked in the flavoring.) 

Peaches, pine apples and bananas may be used in 
the same way. 

Trim the crust from sliced bread, cut 

Bread fritters. . . , , i !.< i ■ i 

in nice shapes and soak soit, but not 
till they break, in a cup of milk to which has been 
added 1 beaten Qgg and some flavoring, as cinnamon, 
lemon, etc. Dip in fritter batter and fry. 



COOKING OF VEGETABLES. 



The lefirumes. As we have seen, the food value of 

the dried bean, pea and lentil, is great, 
but ae usually cooked a large per cent, of it is lost 
to us. 

In the process of cooking, the cellulose part must 
be broken up, softened, and as much as possible 
entirely removed. These vegetables, if they cannot 
be obtained ground, must be soaked iu cold water 
some time before cooking, cooked till very soft and 
then mashed and sieved. No form of cooking that 
does not include sieving can be recommended except 
for very hardy stomachs. See pages 55 and 117. 

This vegetable must also be treated 
with care. The starch grains of which 
it is so largely composed swell in the process of cook- 
ing, and burst the cellulose walls confining them, but 
when this stage is reached the potato is too often 
spoiled by being allowed to absorb steam and become 
sodden. As soon as tender, boiled potatoes should 
be drained, dried out a few moments, then sprinkled 
with salt, and the kettle covered close with a towel, 
until they are served. They should then be put into 
a napkin and sent to the table. 

Other garden vegetables are cooked 
other vegetables. , , . , i. • i i, • i • 

more or less alike; put into boiling 

water and kept at a rapid boil until tender, and no 

116 



116 Goohiwj of Vegetables. 

longer, — the length of time varying for any given 
vegetable according to the freshness, size, and degree 
of maturity. When done or nearly so, they should 
be seasoned and served as soon as possible. 

A welcome variety in the serving of 

rege a es, ygggj-g^j^igg ^^^^ \^q found in skillful 

mixture of two or more kinds. A few of these mix- 
tures are, green corn and shelled beans, or succotash, 
green corn and tomatoes, green corn with stewed 
potatoes, potatoes and turnips mashed together, green 
peas with a quarter as many carrots cut very small, 
potatoes with same proportion of carrots and seasoned 
with fried sliced onions poured over. 
Vegetables and There are also mixtures of vegetables 
fruits. and fruits that are very successful, as 

lentils or beans with a border of stewed prunes. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT, 



In general. These soups should be largely used by 
the economical housewife; they are cheap and nutri- 
tious, and if carefully made and seasoned, excellent 
in taste. A large number of recipes are given, from 
which can be selected what is suited to materials on 
hand, to amount of time and quantity of fire. 

These will be arranged under Vegetable Soups, 
Flour and Bread Soups, and Cold Soups. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

If any meat bones are on hand or trimmings of 
meat not otherwise needed, simmer them from one to 
two hours in water and use the broth thus obtained 
instead of water in making any of the following soups. 

Most important are those made from the dried bean, 
pea and lentil, the three pod-covered vegetables. For 
their nutritive qualities see page 81. 

Ingredients. 1 lb. beans, 1 onion, 2 
tablespoons beef fat, salt and pepper. 

Additions, to be made according to taste. \ lb. 
pork, or a ham bone, a pinch of red pepper, or, an 
hour before serving, different vegetables, as carrots 
and turnips, chopped and fried. 

Soak the beans over night in 2 qts. water. In 
the morning pour off, put on fresh water and cook 
117 



118 Vegetable Soups. 

with the onion and fat till very soft, then mash or 
press through a cullender to remove the skins, and 
add enough water to make 2 qts. of somewhat thick 
soup. Season. 

This soup may also he made from cold baked beans. 
Boil \ hr., or till they fall to pieces, then strain and 
season. 
Split or dried Make like bean soup. 

pea soup. '■ 

Lentil soup. Make like bean soup. 

The water in which vegetables have 
Green Vegetable been cooked should never be thrown 
°"^^' away, with the exception of that used 
for cooking beets, and potatoes boiled without peeling; 
even cabbage water can be made the basis of a good 
soup. 

General method. Boil the vegetables until very 
tender, mash or press through a cullender, thin suffi- 
ciently and season. 
Potato soup. Good and cheap. 

Ingredients. 6 large potatoes peeled, 1 large onion, 
1 heaping teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon pepper. For a 
richer soup add \ lb. salt pork cut in bits ( in this 
case put in less salt) or add 1 cup of milk or a beaten 
<i,^g. Chopped celery leaves give a good flavor. 

Boil potatoes, onions and salt in a little water, 
and when very soft mash ; then add, a little at 
a time and stirring to keep it smooth, a qt. of hot 
water and 1 tablespoon beef fat in which 1 tablespoon 
flour has been cooked ; or use the fat for frying bread 
dice, which add at the last minute. 

Most cooks fry the sliced onion before putting it 
in the soup, but the difference in taste is so slight as 




Vegetable Soups. 119 

not to be worth the few minutes extra time, if time is 

an object. 

This is a delicious soup and very nutri- 
reen pea soup, ^j^^g Large peas, a little too hard to 
be used as a vegetable, may be utilized in its manu- 
facture. 

Ingrediejits. 1 pt. shelled peas, 3 pts. water, 1 
small onion, 1 tablespoon butter or fat, 1 tablespoon 
flour. Salt and pepper. 

Pat peas and onion in boiling water and cook ^ an 
hour to an hour, till very soft. Press through cul- 
lender and season. 

Pea and tomato Add to above when done, 1 pt. stewed 
soup. tomatoes and a little more seasoning. 

This is an excellent soup, having the nutrition of the 
pea and the flavor of the tomato. 

Valuable for its fine flavor, and may 
'**"^' be made nutri tious also by adding broth, 
milk or eggs. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. tomatoes, 2 pts. water, 1 table- 
spoon fat, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper. 

Cook the flour in the fat, add the peeled tomatoes 
and a very little water. When they have cooked to 
pieces, mash them against the side of the pot, add 
the rest of the water and the seasoning. 
Tomato soup Proceed as above, using instead of half 

No. 2. the water, 1 pt. of milk, into which \ 

tea spoon soda has been stirred. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. of parsnips cut in 
^ "^' pieces, 3 small potatoes, 3 pts. water, 
or water and milk, salt, pepper and butter. 
jCook till the vegetables fall to pieces, mash and add 



120 Vegetable Soups. 

seasoning. If milk can be substituted for part of the 
water the soup will be improved. 
Foung vegetable Ingredients. 1 pt. chopped onion, 
or spring soup, carrot, tumips and celery root in about 
equal parts, 1 tablespoon fat, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt 
and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add sugar, salt and pepper, then stir 
the yegetables in it till they begin to brown, add 3 
pts. "water and set back to simmer 1 to 2 hours. Serve 
without straining. 

Ingredients. ^ doz. ears green corn, 

Green corn soup, ox j. ^xii i>i. j-i 

3 pts. water, 1 tablespoon fat and 1 
tablespoon flour salt and pepper, an egg and a cup of 
milk. 

Cut the corn from the cob and boil one hour. Add 
the flour which has been fried in the fat, season and 

strain. 

Make as above, using dried corn. 

Dried corn soup. ,, • r^i. jr,-ijoT, 

soaked over night and boiled 2 hours. 
Sorrel soup. An excellent flavor, new to most of us. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. sheep's sorrel, light measure 
(bought in city markets, or gathered in country 
fields), 1 onion, a few leaves of lettuce and parsley 
all chopped fine, -J teaspoon nutmeg, 1 tablespoon 
fat, 2 tablespoons flour, 3 pts. water, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, salt and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add the chopped vegetables and sweat 
or steam for 10 minutes, then add flour and last the 
boiling water; add the milk just before serving. 
Serve fried bread with it. 

"Hit and Miss" '^^ illustrate how all bits can be 
soup. used, here is a soup actually made from 

''leavings." 



Flour and Bread Soups. 



131 



1 cup water drained from macaroni, 1 cup water 
drained from cabbage, with a few shreds of the cab- 
bage, 2 small bones from roast veal, 1 scant tablespoon 
boiled rice. Simmer these together with a chopped 
onion while the rest of the dinner is cooking, thicken 
with a little flour and serve with fried bread. 



FLOUR AND BREAD SOUPS. 

Flour soup. Ingredients. 1 tablespoon beef fat, 1 
heaping tablespoon flour, 2 sliced onions, 2 pts. water, 
1 pt. milk, 1 cupful of mashed potato, salt and pepper. 

Fry the onions in the fat until light brown; remove, 
pressing out the fat. In same fat now cook the flour 
till it is yellow, and add, a little at a time, the water. 
Put back the onions and let it stand awhile, then 
add milk and potato. Salt well. 

The potato may be omitted and a little more flour 
used. 
Browned Flour Ingredients. 1 tablespoon butter or 

80"P- fat, ^ cup flour, 2 pts. water, 1 pt. milk, 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Cook the flour brown in the fat over a slow fire or 
in the oven; add slowly the water and other ingredi- 
ents. Serve with fried bread. 

Browned Farina Make like abovc, but of wheat farina. 
Bread soup. Ingredients. Dry bread, broken in bits, 
water, salt and pepper, an onion and a little fat. 

Soak the bread in boiling water for a few minutes, 
add the onion sliced and fried in the fat; salt and 
pepper well. 

Or, use milk instead of water, and toasted or fried 
bread. 

11 



132 Milk Soups. 

Noodle Soup. (See page 91.) 

MILK SOUPS OR PORRIDGES. 

These are especially good in families where there 
are children, and would be welcome on almost any 
supper table. They are almost equally good eaten 
cold. 

In making, use a porcelain kettle or an iron kettle, 
greasing it first with a little fat, as a scorched taste 
spoils the dish. 

Wheat Porridge Ingredients. 3 pts. milk, 1 pt. of 
(salted.) water ( or half water and half milk), ^ 
cup jElour, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons salt. 

To the boiling milk and water, add the flour stirred 
smooth with a little cold milk; let it cook 10 minutes. 
Beat the eggs in gradually, but do not cook them; 
serve with fried bread. Grated cheese is an addition 
to this soup. 

Wheat Pon-idge Same as aboYC, but using only a pinch 
(sweet.) of gg^ii^ aQ(j a^g fla,voring 3 tablesjioons 
sugar and ^ teaspoon cinnamon. The flavor may be 
varied by using grated lemon peel, nutmeg, vanilla, 
bitter almond or 2 fresh peach leaves boiled with the 
milk. 

Of Farina These two pomdges are still better 

made of farina instead of flour. 

Barley Porridge. ^^^'^^'^ ^^^^^y is soaked over night in 
water, and then cooked for 2 hours till 
soft. During the last hour add milk instead of 
water, as it dries away. Flavor with salt and butter. 
Indian Meal Ligredients. 1 cup meal, 2 qts. water, 

Porridge. 1 tablcspoon flour, 1 pt. milk, salt, and 

a little ginger (if liked). Boil the meal and water 



Milk Soups. 



123 



Chocolate Soup. 



I 



an hour; add flour and salt and boil ^ hour, and add 

the milk just before serving. 

Oatmeal Make in the same way, using oat- 

PoiTidgre. meal instead of flour. 
Graham 1 cup graham flour to 3 pts. milk and 

Porridge, water. Cook 15 minutes. This may 
be varied in flavor like flour porridge. 

These three Porridges can be made from cold corn, 
oatmeal or graham mush. 

Ingredients. \ lb. chocolate, 2^ qts. 
milk and water, sugar to taste, 1 egg 
yolk, a little vanilla or cinnamon. 

Cook the chocolate soft in a little water and add 
the rest; when boiling put in the other ingredients 
and cook the beaten white of an egg in spoonfuls on 
the top. Serve with fried bread. 
Buttermilk Soup The foreign kitchen has many recipes 

or " Pop." for this soup quite unknown among us. 
Cooking brings out the acid, but once used to that 
taste, one finds the soup good and wholesome. 

Ingredients. To each pt. of buttermilk, 1 table- 
spoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter, a little salt. 

Bring gradually to a boil, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent curdling, and pour on fried bread. 

Varieties. Sugar and cinnamon are often added 
to this soup; also the yolk and beaten white of 1 egg. 
It is considered nutritious for the sick. 

Another. The Germans often add to this soup 
small potatoes, and bits of fried bacon. In which 
case the butter is omitted. 

Or to the buttermilk soup when done, is added 
half the quantity of cooked pears or prunes. 



124 Fruit Soups. 

Brewis. To Salted boiling milk, put enough 

bread crumbs (either white or graham) to make a 
thick smooth porridge. 

This soup is earnestly recommended 

Sour Cream Soup. , , . , t . . , . , 

for trial, as there are few ways in which 

such a delicious taste may be given to simple materails. 

Ingredients. 3 pts. water, \ cup sour cream jind the 
following mixture: \ cup milk, ^ cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
butter, -J tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon fluid yeast or \ teaspoon compressed 
yeast. Mix these together into a dough and let it 
get light, then drop half of it in teaspoonfuls into 
the boiling water and cream; then thin the rest with 
water until it will pour, add it to the soup and cook 
5 minutes. (Not all the dough may be needed.) 

Ingredients. 1 pt. cider just begin- 
rsoup. njiig to work, 1 pt. water, 1 cup milk 

(boiling), 1 tablespoon flour, a little cinnamon and 
sugar. 

Let cider and water come to a boil, add the flour rub- 
bed smooth, and cook a few minutes; and lastly add 
the milk. Serve with toast. An egg yolk may be 
added. 

FRUIT SOUPS. 

To he eaten Warm or Cold. 

These are made of almost any Avell flavored fruit, 
cooked soft and mashed, sufficient water added, witli 
a little thickening, sugar and spice. They are espe- 
cially welcome in summer; may be eaten as a first 
course, or set aside to be used as a drink during tlie 
meal. 



Fruit Soups. 



125 



Apple soup. No. 1. 



Ingredients. 4 cups peeled and quar- 
tered apples, cooked to a mush in a 

little water, 1^ pts. water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 3 

teaspoons sugar, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, a pinch of salt. 

No. 2. A soup plate full apples, 1 cup of rice. 

Cook soft and rub through a sieve, adding a little 

sugar, cinnamon, lemon peel, and an egg yolk. Thin 

sufficiently with water. 

No. 3. Instead of rice, use in the above recipe 

bread with the addition of a few India currants. 

No. 4. Instead of rice, use oatmeal and cook 

till soft, or use that already cooked. 

Make like apple soup, but if the 
plums are very sour add a little soda, 

— J teaspoon to a qt. of soup. 

Cherry Soup. Made in the same manner. 

These soups may also be made of dried plums, prunes 

or dried sour cherries. Soak the fruit over night. 

Soups of Pears, If soup is made of a milder fruit, as 
etc., pears, which are at some seasons so 

cheap, add a few sour apples or more spice, to give 

flavor. 



Plum Soup. 



ADDITIOE^S TO SOUPS. 



If your soup has not strength enough, milk and 
eggs may be added if no meat stock is at hand. 

The egg should be beaten, mixed with 
' a little of the soup, then added to the 
rest, but not boiled. The yolk is better for this pur- 
pose than the white. 

Liebig's meat extract is yery valuable 

Meat Extract. . , ,. „ . ^ i -j^ • . 

for adding navor to a soup but it is too 
expensive for general use. 

This may be boiled a few minutes 
with the soup after being mixed smooth 
in a little water, or better, cook it in a little butter or 
melted beef fat before adding to the soup. 

On baking day, save a little of the 

2. Bread Sponge. , , i j.i • x, i. 

bread sponge, make thin enough to 
pour, and if you wish, add a beaten egg. Set away 
half an hour to rise again, and when light pour into 
the soup. 

This preparation of wheat, now sold 
by the pound at a reasonable price, is 
most valuable as an addition to soup ; it needs only 
to be sprinkled in and boiled for a few moments. 

Mashed potato mixed smooth with a 
little milk or grated cold potato may 
be added to soup to give body. " 
126 



Additions to Soups. 



W 



ft. m<x. 



1. Bread. 



5, Bariey. Add to the soup 1 hour before it is done 

pearl barley that has been soaked over night. 

One-half hour before serving, add to 
soup 1 tablespoon of rice to a quart of soup. 
Bits of bread dried hard in the oven, 
may be added to the soup just before 
serving, or fry them in the spider in a little beef fat, 
or soak in milk and Qgg before frying. Or, toast 
bread and cut in squares. 

Any small vegetables may be added, 
such as asparagus tops, tiny onions 
that have been first boiled in another pot, cooked 
peas, beans, etc. A favorite Russian soup is beef 
soup, with the addition of beets, cabbage and carrots. 
Most important of all additions to soup are those 
which need a little more time to prepare, but are 
worth the trouble if the soup is to be the principal 
part of the dinner. Such are the following: 



8. Vegetables. 



DUMPLINGS FOB SOUPS AND STEWS. 

This word has an unpleasant sound, too suggestive 
of the heavy and unwholesome balls often served 
under this name, but there seems to be no other name 
under which these different preparations can bdf 
classed. Their basis is bread and eggs, or flour and 
eggs. 

Bread mentioned here is hard dried bread ; it must 

be softened by soaking in cold water ( hot water makes 

it pasty), then press it dry in a cloth and crumble it. 

Any cooked meat or several different 

kinds when there is too little of each 

to be otherwise used, is chopped fine and mixed with 



128 Dumvlings for Soups and Stews. 

as much bread, salted and peppered, a little chopped 
suet or butter, or better still, marrow, and a chopped 
onion and some herbs, and to each cup of this mix- 
ture allow an egg. Mix lightly, make out into little 
balls and cook in very gently boiling soup. Try one 
first to see if it holds together. If not, add a little 
flour. 

Substitute for the meat any cooked 
Fish balls. ^ , , , ^ 

fish, chopped fine. 

Two eggs to 1 cup of bread and mar- 

Mfiirrow l)8.11s 

row size of an egg, chopped. Make as 
above. 
Instead of marrow, add cubes of 

Bacon Balls. , j? • t i 

bacon tried brown. 

All these mixtures can also be fried in a pan as an 
omelette, or baked. 

Flour and Bread Three cups, half bread, half flour, 1 
Balls. egg, butter size of an egg, 1 cup milk 

and water, salt. Soak the bread in the milk and 
water, and make out into little balls with the other in- 
gredients. Cook, covered, 15 minutes (may also be 
boiled in salted water and eaten with fruit ). 

One egg, 1 teaspoon flour, a little 

Egg Sponge. i, n 7 ^■^ -f + -P 

salt. Beat white of egg to foam, mix 
lightly with the rest and pour on top of the soup. 
Turn over in a few minutes with a skimmer, and be- 
fore putting into the turreen, cut it in pieces. 

No. 2. 1 heaping tablespoon flour to 1 egg and the 
yolk of another, and 1 teaspoon butter. Beat hard 
and drop in with a teaspoon. 

schwaben Spet- One egg, 3 tablespoons milk, nearly 
zei. ^ cup of flour, salt. Pour through a 



Dtimplinyg for Soups and Stews. 



129 



funnel into soup or into salted water, cook 5 min- 
utes and use to garnish beef. 

An excellent addition to a stew or 
soup is of biscuit or rusk dough ( see 
page 98), made into balls no larger than a chestnut, 
and cooked in the stew, or steamed in a cloth above 

it. 

Also the following of buttermilk: 1 

cup buttermilk, \ teaspoon of soda, 1 
egg, salt, and flour enough to allow of the batter 
being dropped in spoonfuls. 

Cooked macaroni cut in pieces an 

inch long, is a pleasant addition to soup. 



Biscuit Dough 
BaUs. 



MacaronL 



FLAVORS OR SEASOI^IJSTGS. 



Without doubt *' hunger is the best sauce," but it 
is not true, as many think, that a craving for variety 
is the sign of a pampered and unnatural appetite; 
even animals, whom we cannot accuse of having 
** notions," have been known to starve in the exper- 
imenter's hands rather than eat a perfectly nutri- 
tious food of whose flavor they had wearied, and pris- 
oners become so tired of a too oft repeated dish that 
they vomit at the sight and smell of it. 

What we call flavors may or may not be associated 
with a real food. Meats are rich in flavors and each 
fruit has its peculiar taste; then, there are the spices 
and aromatic herbs which are not parts of a real food, 
and it is most important that the cook should under- 
stand the art of adding tliese as seasonings to mild tast- 
ing foods, so as to make new dishes which shall be both 
nutritious and appetizing. The bulk of our nourish- 
ment must be made up of the flesh of a few animals, 
a half-dozen grains and as many garden vegetables, 
but the skillful cook can make of them, with the 
help of other flavors, an endless variety of dishes. 

An American traveling on the continent of Europe 

becomes acquainted with many new dishes and tastes, 

and although not all of them are to his liking, he 

must conclude that our cookery, compared for in- 

130 



w 



Flavorings. 131 




stance, with that of the French, is yery monotonous. 
To be sure, we have the advantage of the European 
in that our markets offer us a greater variety of nat- 
ural foods, especially fruits, each having a flavor of 
its own, and this fact makes us somewhat more inde- 
pendent of the art of the cook; but still we have need 
for every lesson of this sort, and especially is this the 
case with the poor, who must keep to the cheapest 
food materials, which are not in themselves rich in 
flavor. 

Spices and other flavors, when not used to excess, 
stimulate our digestive organs to appropriate more 
easily the food to which they are added; their agree- 
able odor starts the digestive juices, both in the 
mouth and in the stomach, and their flavor acting 
on the palate has the same effect. 

The more common spices and flavors, as the house- 
wife uses these terms, are salt, pepper, mustard, cin- 
namon and mace, nutmegs, cloves, ginger, caraway 
and coriander seeds, vanilla, and many volatile oils, 
such as those contained in the rind of lemons and 
oranges; and to this list we must add certain vegeta- 
bles, as the horseradish and various members of the 
onion family, the caper and nasturtium seeds, and the 
aromatic herbs. 

All these have their use and their abuse. Salt is 
hardly thought of in this list, so necessary do we con- 
sider it, and its use is well enough governed by our 
palate, though no doubt we over, rather than under 
salt our foods. Pepper is also in nearly every house- 
hold used to excess, being added to too many dishes. 
The pungent mustard should be still more carefully 



132 Flavorings. 

used; but a little of it adds relish to a salad or a meat 
sauce, and goes especially well with certain vegetables, 
as beans. Cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, we use prin- 
cipally with sweet dishes, but nutmeg makes a nice 
variety in certain meat stews and in croquettes; 
foreign cooks use it far too much to suit our taste. 
Almost our only use of the caraway and coriander 
seeds is in cookies ; try the former in a potato soup 
for variety. Ginger seems to go well with Indian 
meal in a pudding or porridge, and with molasses, 
wherever used. 

To give the uses for onions and for the aromatic 
herbs would be too long a task. The latter can all be 
bought in a dried state very cheaply, and they retain 
their flavor well; one of the most useful, however, 
parsley, is much better fresh ; by all means keep a 
little box of it growing in a window. Perhaps, after 
onion, celery is most useful as a flavor for soups and 
stews, root, stem, leaves and seeds being all valuable. 

In the flavoring of soups and stews, it is well to use 
a number of flavors, letting no one of them be promi- 
nent above the others ; on the other hand, it is well 
to have certain favorite dishes seasoned always in the 
same way ; as fresh pork with sage; summer savory 
in a bread dressing, etc. 



DEI]^KS AT MEALS. 



A warm drink at meals is better than a cold one, es- 
pecially in winter or at any time when we are tired; and 
the drinking of ice water cannot be too strongly con- 
demned, lowering as it does the temperature of the 
stomach and so delaying digestion. To furnish warm 
drinks for each meal, acceptable to the palate, cheap 
and harmless, is no easy question. Soups or broth 
once adopted as a part of two meals in the day, as is 
so frequently seen in Europe, and the problem is half 
solved; indeed some of the drinks here given are really 
thin vegetable soups or porridges to which the flavor 
of salt or of sugar may be given according to taste. 

It may be concluded, after comparing 
authors on the subject, that although 
coffee somewhat retards digestion and acts as a stimu- 
lant to the nervous system, still one or even two cups 
of moderately strong coffee a day will not harm a 
healthy person. We may say, therefore, that its use 
to this extent is a question of expense only. 

Java and Mocha coffee in equal parts are considered 
the best mixture. Rio is much cheaper, and of strong, 
pure flavor. The amount to be used for moderately 
strong coffee is 1 tablespoon ( ground) to a cup. 

Chicory is considered here only as an adulterant, 
whereas in Europe a verj- little of it, say ^ teaspoon of 

188 




184 Coffee and Tea. 

the prepared chicory to a cup of ground coffee, is 
used to improve the flavor. 

Next to the quality of the coffee, it is of importance 
that it should be freshly ground and browned. If 
you buy it browned, reheat it first before grinding. 
The easiest and most economical way of making is to 
grind it very fine and put into a bag made of woven 
stuff, a white stocking top will do ; leave room to 
swell. Heat this in your coffee pot as hot as you can 
without burning. Pour on boiling water and keep it 
hot and close-covered for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Boiling coffee increases its strength, but does not 

improve its flavor. 

All authors agree as to the harmful- 
Tea 

ness of strong tea, taken to excess. 

Take great pains in making tea. Use an earthen 
teapot, and have a tea cozy or a large flannel cloth to 
wrap it in. 

The water used should be between hard and soft, 
extracting the aroma but not the astringency; in 
China river water is used. If hard water must be 
used, remember that boiling increases its hardness 
and that it should be used as soon as it reaches the 
boiling point. 

Take 1 teaspoonf ul of tea to a cup, put it in the teapot 
and heat in an oven till hot, pour on 1 cup of water 
that has just come to a boil, and cover with the tea 
cozy. Let it stand 5 minutes, then fill up with the 
requisite quantity of hot water and serve immediately. 
Cocoa and choco- These both contain a good deal of 
late. nourishment, and as drinks are con- 

sidered rather heavy. As the various kinds differ 



GrueU. 135 

very much from each other, they are best prepared 
according to the recipes found on the packages. 

Milk, except for children, can hardly 

be looked upon as a drink, but diluted 

with hot water, and sweetened, it has already been 

christened for the children as "cambric tea," and it 

is no bad drink for their elders. 

A very thin gruel, slightly sweetened, 

Gruels. j j • i 

IS a good drmk. 
Oatmeal grueL jnto a qt. of boiling water stir 2 table- 
spoons oatmeal ; boil for an hour or longer, strain 
through a coarse sieve or a cullender, add a pinch of 
salt, and a little milk and sugar. 

Wet 1 tablespoon rice flour in a little 
***™® cold milk, put into 1 qt. boiling water, 

salt slightly and boil till transparent. Flavor with a 
little lemon peel and sugar. 

1 qt. boiling water, 3 tablespoons 

Oommeal gruel. , , j • • . i 

corn meal washed m several waters, ^ 

teaspoon salt ; add \ cup milk and a little sugar ; — a 

pinch of ginger is an improvement. 

Soak pearl or ground barley all night 
Barley gruel . . 

or a few hours in cold water, put into 

boiling water and cook till very soft. Season like the 

others. 

Sago ^^d Tapioca ^.^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^ 

All these drinks must be thin and not too highly 

seasoned. 

Brown common field corn as you 

would coffee, as brown as you can without 

burning. Grind coarsely and steep like coffee. Add 

milk and sugar, and you will find it a delicious drink. 



136 Summer Drinks. 

Cold drinks in Lemonade is too strongly acid for a 
Summer. regular drink at meals, but lemon as a 

flavor is always welcome. 

Irish moss lemon- Wash a handful of Irish moss in 5 
ade. waters, pour over it 2 qts. boiling water 

and let it stand till cold. Strain, adding more water 
if necessary and add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten 
with lump sugar which you have rubbed on the lemons 
to obtain the oil in the skin. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. tartaric acid dis- 
a cream. golved in a pt. of hot water. When 
cold flavor with lemon zest or extract, and add the 
beaten white of an egg. When used, add 2 table- 
spoons of it to a glass of water in which you have 
dissolved ^ teaspoon soda. 

Slice juicy sour apples into boiling 
pp e wa r. -y^^ter and keep warm an hour. Strain 
and sweeten. All these drinks taste best cooled (but 
not too cold) with ice. 

Sweet cider can be bottled for use 
and makes a delicious drink. Boil and 
skim till it is clear — no longer; pour hot into bottles, 
and seal. 

See also vegetable and fruit soups. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 




It is comparatively easy for your family to live on a 
small income while all its members are in good health, 
but you will find your resources all too slender when 
you must cater for the appetite of an invalid. 

At best, sickness is always a severe drain on the 
limited income, but here, as in every other depart- 
ment of your work, you will find that good sense and 
ingenuity will often stand you in stead for money. 

During a severe illness the food as much as the 
medicine is under the care of the physician, but when 
the danger is over and he has left you with only gen- 
eral directions, you will be more than likely in 
your bewilderment to take the advice of the first 
neighbor that drops in, although you may know that 
neither her judgment nor experience is as good as 
your own. 

Now consider first, what did the doctor mean by 
saying that the patient must be " built up," and how 
is the wasted frame to get back the fat and muscle 
that were burned away in the sickness? Chiefly, as 
you know, by the digestion of food, the proteids and 
fats and carbohydrates that we have been talking 
about, and still another, a real food although so often 
forgotten, the oxygen of the air. 

We have said that we need not concern ourselves 
about this food, that it would take care of itself; and 
80 it will when we are in a state of health and living 
12 187 



138 Cookery for the Sick. 

as human beings should, for as we walk or work we 
are fed by the air without knowing it. But the case 
is quite different with a poor invalid shut up in a sick 
room, we must bring the fresh air to him with as 
much care and regularity as we do his jellies and broths. 
When we are considering what we shall feed our 
invalid, we cannot do better than keep to our old 
classification of Proteids, Fats, and Carbohydrates. 
He must have all these principles but in the most 
digestible form, for the stomach is feeble like the rest 
of the body. For this reason the proteids must be 
furnished mainly from the animal kingdom, butter 
and cream must supply the fat, and the carbohy- 
drates must bring with them as little as possible of 
the tough cellulose, and they must be so cooked as 
to be easily digested. 
First, as to the Proteids. 

Hot milk, given often in small quantities, is much 
used in the early stages of recovery and is generally 
better liked if accompanied by a bit of toasted bread 
or made into a thin gruel. 

In the first rank, also, comes soup made of lean 
beef scraped fine, covered with cold water and allowed 
to stand for an hour, then brought slowly to scalding 
heat and kept there for a short time; it is then 
strained through a coarse sieve, the small brown 
flakes being allowed to pass. Season only with salt. 
Or, broil a thick, tender steak, cut it in pieces, and 
then with a lemon squeezer press out every .particle 
of juice, it may then be diluted and seasoned. 

Mutton broth is made like beef soup but should be 
cooked a longer time. Chicken broth also requires 
more cooking. 



I 



Cookery for the Sick. 139 

Any of these soups may have a little rice or tapioca 
cooked with them. 

Eggs are an important item in the diet of an inva- 
lid, being very natritioas and, if fresh, easily diges- 
ted; do not use them at all if uncertain of their age. 

Eggs may be given raw ( see page 58 ) or soft-boiled 
( see page 69 ) or poached in hot water. An egg may 
be served in many ways and makes always a pretty 
and attractive dish. In cooking, it should never be 
submitted to a high temperature, as that makes the 
white part homy and indigestible. 

A custard made from an egg and a cup of milk and 
a half table spoon of sugar may be given early in a 
convalescence. Or use beef soup or chicken broth 
instead of the milk, and flavor with a little salt and 
pepper. These custards should be made in a pail set 
in a kettle of boiling water, the custard being stirred 
till it begins to thicken. 

Next in order, comes cooked meat. Beef is best 
of all, but let it be juicy and tender and broil or roast 
it, serving it rare. Probably a broiled mutton chop 
ranks next, although chicken, because of its delicate 
flavor will often receive the first choice. An invalid 
should not touch pork, and should be given veal or 
lamb only in the form of soup. 

As to fata, the system needs them of course, but 
fat meat should not be given, only butter or better 
still, cream. The butter must never be melted and 
soaked into the food, nor made into a sauce. 

Ab to the vegetable part of the diet, much care 
must be used. In the form of gruel or porridge, it 
is generally very welcome and gives the fluid part of 



140 Cookery for the Sick. 

the meal in a good form. For Indian meal and oat- 
meal porridge see page 122. Milk may take the place 
of the water. 

Toast is with good reason considered invalids' food, 
for the process of toasting turns part of the starch of 
the bread into dextrine which is digested with great 
ease. Grains may be also browned or roasted. Roast 
rice as you would coffee, cook as usual and eat with 
a little cream. Remember that bread for toast must 
be cut thin and first dried out at a little distance from 
the fire, then brought nearer and browned. You may 
then serve it as dry toast lightly buttered, or in addi- 
tion to the butter and a little salt, pour hot water or 
milk on it just before serving. 

Panada of toasted brown bread, white bread or 
crackers, is made by piling the pieces in a bowl, hav- 
ing sprinkled either salt or sugar over, and then pour- 
ing over enough boiling water to soak them well. It 
should be kept hot for an hour or more, the pieces then 
lifted out carefully on a hot saucer and served with a 
little cream and perhaps more salt or sugar. Nutmeg 
may be added. 

Rice is also a very valuable food for use in sickness, 
as it does not tax the most delicate digestion. 

Macaroni is easily digested and of high food value. 
It should be boiled in salted hot water till tender and 
served with a little butter or cream. Or it may be 
added to a custard and lightly baked. 

Barley, thoroughly cooked, is good food for an in- 
valid. Oatmeal must be used with caution until the 
digestion becomes stronger. 

As to vegetables proper, a mealy baked potatoe is 



Cookery for the Sick. 



141 



perhaps the first to be introduced into the bill of fare; 
remove the inside, mash fine and season with a little 
salt and cream. Beware of potatoes cooked in any 
other way. 

The juice of fruits may be used early as a flavor in 
drinks, but the pulp must be discarded. A baked 
apple is safest to begin with, when the time comes to 
introduce fruit as such into the diet. 

As to the serving, use the best china, silver and 
linen that you have in the house and let exquisite 
neatness never fail. 

Remember that surprises are delightful to a sick 
person; never let the bill of fare be known before 
hand, and if you can disguise a well known dish, so 
much the better. Beaten white of Qgg is a good fairy 
and serves you cheaply. Snowy white or made golden 
brown in the oven, it may top many a dish, conceal- 
ing at one time a custard, at another a mold of chicken 
jelly or even a cup of delicate apple sauce. 

The processes of cooking, if simple, an invalid loves 
to watch and the sight is often a whet to the appetite. 
Bring his gruel to him in the form of mush and thin 
it before his eyes with milk or cream, coddle his egg 
in a stone ware bowl while he eats another course, 
and by all means make his tea at the bed-side. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



The following bills of fare are made out for a 
family of six persons, consisting of a working man, 
two women, and three children between the ages of 
six and fifteen, the size of the family and the ages 
attained being considered sufficiently near the average. 

The amount of food and the proportions in which 
the great food principles are represented approximate 
to what is demanded by standard dietaries for such a 
family. For the man of the family we have taken, as 
has been said, the one proposed by Professor Atwater 
for an American at average manual labor, for the 
women and children those proposed by Prof. Konig. 
The amounts represented by them 

Dietary adopted. 

are z 

Prceid. Pats. ^a^^^f 

Man ..125 gms. 125 gms. 400 gms. 

3 women (each) 96 '' 48" 400** 

3 children, 6 to 15 yrs. ^g .^ ^^ << 220 " 
(each) 

Sum total is 545 gms. 353 gms. 2210 gms. 

Or translated into oz 19.19 oz. 12.42 oz. 78.03 oz. 

In calculating these amounts we have followed 
almost entirely the analytical tables compiled by Prof. 
Konig. 

Meat is reckoned without bone and moderately 
fat, and in nearly all the bills of fare the amount of 

142 



Bills of Fare. 



143 



in t 

n T 



proteids enough exceeds that required by the dietary 
adopted so that we can afford this loss. Flour is of 
medium quality, eggs are reckoned without shell, and 
milk as weighing 34.4 oz. per qt. 

As to prices, they are mainly those of Baltimore 
markets, corrected in some cases by those of New York. 
Eggs are reckoned as costing in the spring 18 cts., 
in Fall and Winter 25 cts., canned fruit is put down 
at the price paid for the fruit in Summer. The cost 
of raw material is given in all cases, bread being 
reckoned at the cost of the flour contained in it. 

In three different seasons, four days in succession 
are selected, these days being the ones considered most 
trying to the housekeeper — Saturday, Sunday, Monday 
and Tuesday, and this gives an opportunity to show 
how the food should be planned and cooked ahead. 
It is intended that on Saturday the food for Sunday 
should be cooked as nearly as possible, as the Sunday 
dinner should be a good one but requiring a minimum 
of labor on that day; the dinner on Monday should 
be such as can be cooked on the back of the stove and 
in the oven. 

The recipes will have to be varied a little according 

advice given in appropriate places as to economy, 
, substituting beef fat for butter, or adding it 
▼hen skim milk is used instead of whole milk. 

It is intended that each day there shall be a small 
surplus of money for purchasing seasonings and 
flavors. 

INTRODUCTION TO BILLS OP FARE, CLASS I. 

( To the Mother of the Family. ) 
In the general introduction the writer has stated a 



144 Introductory Letter. 

few principles that should guide us in choosing our 
food. We have learned that to keep us in good health 
and working order we ought to have a certain amount 
of what is best furnished by meat, eggs, milk and 
other animal products, and that we must also have 
fats as well as what is given us in grains and vegetables. 

But now our work has only just begun for we are to 
furnish these food principles in the shape of cooked 
dishes to be put on the family table three times a day, 
and the dishes must not only be nourishing but they 
must taste good, and there must be plenty of variety 
from day to day; and last — and this is the hardest 
point of all — we are to try to do this for the sum of 
13 cents per person daily. 

I am going to consider myself as talking to the 
mother of a family who has six mouths to feed, and 
no more money than this to do it with. Perhaps this 
woman has never kept accurate accounts and does not 
know whether she spends more or less than this sum. 
She very likely has her " flush " days and her "poor " 
days according to the varying amounts of the family 
earnings, and it may be a comfort to her to know that 
if she could average these days and plan a little bet- 
t(T, she can feed her family nicely on this sum. 

A few facts as to what the writer knows to have been 
done in this line will not be amiss. I knew a family 
of 6 belonging to one of the professional classes, lialf, 
grown people, and half, children, that lived for a 
year on an average of 11 cents per person daily, and 
no one would have said that they did not live well 
enough; they had meat about four days out of the 
seven, there was always cake on their supper table, 
and they used plenty of fruit. 



Introductory Letter. 145 

Here is an average bill of fare. Breakfast — milk 
toast, fried potatoes, coffee; dinner — soup made of 
shank of beef, fried liver, rice and potatoes; supper 
— bread and butter fried mush, stewed pears and 
cake. Next day there was pressed beef made from 
the soup meat chopped and flavored, and next day 
there was cheap fish nicely fried. The head of this 
household was a skillful economist, al>solutely no mis- 
takes were made in cooking, and not a scrap was 
wasted, she bad a long list of simple dishes at her 
command and she especially studied variety. **I 
abandon even a favorite dish for weeks," she said, 
*'if any one tires of it." I give this as a sample of 
what I know to have been done by a highly respect- 
able family in a city of small size in one of our east- 
ern states. 

It must be mentioned that the price on which this 
family lived in comfort could not have been as low as 
it was but for one great help; they had a small gar- 
den that furnished green vegetables and a little fruit. 
But then almost every family has some special advan- 
tage that would lower the rate somewhat ; one buys 
butter or fruit advantageously of friends in the coun- 
try, another can buy at wholesale when certain staples 
are cheapest, still another may be able to keep a few 
fowls, and so on. Numerous instances could be 
brought to prove that the food for a family can be pur- 
chased in a raw condition for the sum per head for 
which w^e have undertaken to buy it, and that by skill 
in cooking, flavoring and giving right variety, a health- 
ful and very acceptable diet can be furnished, though 
it cannot, of course, contain luxuries. 
13 



146 Time and Utensils Required. ^ 

Another thing, when I speak of a woman who is to 
buy the food of a family for 13 cents apiece daily, 
I have in mind the wife of a man who earns this sum 
himself, the wife having her time to attend to the 
housework and children. If a woman helps earn, as 
in a factory, doing most of her housework after she 
comes home at night, she must certainly have more 
money than in the first case in order to accomplish 
the same result, for she must buy her bread already 
baked and can only cook those dishes that take the 
least time. 

I shall take for granted that you have the kitchen 
utensils described on page 20; if not, buy them, be- 
cause, you cannot afford to do without them. Food 
is very expensive compared with pots and pans ; you 
must not spoil food for lack of the right things to 
cook it in. 

I only ask you in advance to try the recipes I shall 
give and to try to lay aside your prejudices against 
dishes to which you are not accustomed, as soups and 
cheese dishes for instance. You cannot afford to 
reject anything that will vary your diet, for many 
good tasting things you cannot buy. 

I know it is hard for a busy woman to give to her 
cooking a bit more time than will "just do," but if 
you make it a rule to determine the night beforehand 
just what you will cook on the following day, no mat- 
ter how simple the food may be, you will gain this 
result ; with the materials at your disposal you will 
put before your family much better food, and they 
will call you a good cook and think that no family 
need live better than they; and this impression will be 




Buying of Meat. 147 

made principally from your having the right variety. 
Let U8 understand, to begin with, that it is your 
business in life just now to conquer this food question 
as it affects your family. Just as the business man 
must watch the market and take advantage of a half 
cent a pound on an article, that he may successfully 
compete with his neighbor, so you must be on the 
alert to use every possible advantage. It is a struggle 
in which energy and calculation will tell for a great 
deal, and you will have solid enjoyment in every point 
that you gain. 

In buying meat your saving cannot be so much in 
quantity as in quality. Try to learn the different parts 
of an animal, and to distinguish between meat from a 
fat ox and that from a lean one, for, as we have explain- 
ed, the former has less water in it, and why should you 
pay good money for that which nature gives you free ? 
In winter, try to buy meat ahead so that you can 
make it tender by keeping it, and you will notice, too, 
that the larger the piece you buy the smaller is the 
per cent of bone you get with it. The per cent of 
bone in the whole animal, as in the case of an ox. is 
not more than 10 or 11 per cent, but the buyer of a 
small piece of meat often gets twice that proportion. 
As we have said again and again in these page^, the 
low-priced or tougher parts have as much nutriment 
for you as the rib roast which is beyond your purse. 
Choose often the fat middle rib and cook it long 
and slowly ; buy the neck and scrag of mutton, and 
make a stew with vegetables : buy half a calf's head, 
and see what a fine soup you can make of it. Have 
beef's liver now and then, and tripe, rather than put 



148 Grains and Vegetables. 

your money into sausage of doubtful quality. By all 
means buy fish when it is cheap, catfish, for instance, 
which are excellent fried. Keep suet always on hand 
and use instead of butter, as has been directed. 

No one need tell you how valuable salt pork and 
bacon are for you, — the only danger is that you will 
use too much of them. 

In buying eggs, you must be governed by the 
price; in winter use as few as possible, and even in 
the spring when they are cheapest, remember that 
they are not as cheap as the lowest priced cuts of 
meat from fat animals. But when they cost only 
15 cents a dozen you can well disregard any small 
comparison of nutritive values, in consideration of 
their high worth in furnishing variety; you can 
afford to use them now and then in the place of meat 
and in making the various Qgg dishes. 

Of the value of cheese as a regular dish to take the 
place of meat, you can read in another part of this 
essay. Buy it once a week at least, the skim variety, 
if you cannot afford the others, and grate or cook it 
according to the recipes given. 

Try to find a reliable milkman and buy skim milk 
at half the price of full, and use it for all cooking pur- 
poses, keeping full milk, and, if possible, a little of 
the cream, for coffee. 

Now let us take the vegetable part of your diet. 
You must keep on hand every kind of 
flour and grain that is not too expen- 
sive ; be thankful that wheat flour is so good and so 
cheap, it will be your best friend. If you are not 
already skillful in using it in bread and other doughs, 



Flavorings. 149 

jou will waste your materials and make mistakes at 
first, but there is nothing for you but to become mis- 
tress of this department of cookery. Use bread freely 
in all the bread dishes, learn how to make every one. 
You will use buckwheat for cakes, rice for puddings, 
barley in soups, oatmeal and cornmeal for mushes, and 
you must learn to use them all in as many ways as possi- 
ble. The grains are cheaper foods for us than vegeta- 
bles, although dried peas, beans and lentils follow hard 
upon them. Even the potato, which may be called 
our favorite vegetable, is more expensive than wheat 
flour, if we are talking only of food values. 

Except in the height of their season, have noth- 
ing to do with green vegetables, at least not under 
the impression that they are cheap; if you buy them, 
know that you are paying for flavors and variety, 
rather than for food. But even in the early spring, 
buy plenty of such vegetables as onions, carrots, pars- 
ley and other green herbs for your soups and stews. 
When you go for a walk in the country, be sure to 
bring home mint and sorrel in your pocket ; the for- 
mer will make you a nice meat sauce, the latter a 
delightful flavor in soup. It will be perfectly easy 
for you to grow in a window box that delicious herb, 
parsley, and have it always fresh. 

For a low purse, there is no help so great as a 
knowledge of flavorings. When we remember that 
we can live on bread, beans, peas and a little cheap 
meat and fat the year round if we can only make it 
"go down," we shall realize the importance of such 
additions as rouse the appetite; there is room here for 
U your skill and all your invention. Always make a 




150 Bills of Fare. 

cheap but nutritious dish inviting in appearance; es- 
pecially does this influence the appetites of children 
wlio are delighted with a very plain cake if only a few 
raisins or some sugar appear on the top. 

The Bills of Fare on pages 146 to 158, where 78 cents 
covers the cost of food for a family of 6 per day, and 
where the amount of food is carefully weighed and esti- 
mated, is meant only to suggest to you how in a few 
cases your food problem can be solved. You can, no 
doubt, spend the money in ways that will better suit 
the tastes of your family, but I beg you to exam- 
ine anew your favorite dishes to see if they are as 
nutritious as they should be for their price. Eemem- 
ber that the Proteid column is the one that you must 
look to most carefully because it is furnished at the 
most expense, and it is very important that it should 
not fall below the figures I have given. If, for in- 
stance, you should economize in meat in order to buy 
cake and pastry, this column would suffer at the ex- 
pense of the other two and your family would be 
under nourished. 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 151 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS I. 




For family of six, average price 78 cents per day, or 18 cents 
per person. 

Saturday, ]VIay. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Flour Pancakes, Bread Soup (p. 20). 

(p. 103) with Sugar Syrup. Beef neck Stew 

Coffee. Noodles (p. 90). 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Bupper. 

Browned Flour Soup, with Fried Bread (p. 121). 
Toast and Cheese (page 62, No. 1). 

Proteids. F^ts. ^^^ <^ 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

)<lb. Rice .64 .06 8.12 4 

lib. Sugar .... 15.42 7 

9i Ib.F^t Cheese 3.00 a4« .24 11J4 

2 qt«. Skim Milk 2.12 .48 3.30 8 

21b. Flour a84 .48 28.88 6 

qt. Whole Milk .58 .82 .83 ^ 

Eres .34 3St .... 3 

lbs. Beef neck 8.40 2J0 .... 20 

lb. Suet 6.88 .... 8 

lb. Coffee 3f 

^Ibe. Bread 3.36 J» 2».06 8^ 

Total 22.28 laSB niw TtT 

Bequlred 1»,1» 12.48 78.08 78 




152 Bills of Fare, Class 



Sunday, May. 
Breakfast Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Stuffed Beef's Heart (p. 48). 

Coffee. Potatoes stewed 

with Milk. 
Dried Apple Pie (p. 108). 
Bread and Cheese. 
Corn Coffee (p. 135). 

Supper. 

Noodle Soup (from Saturday, p. 91). 

Broiled Herring. 

Bread, 

Tea. 

T. i ,1 x-^^^ Carbo- Cost 

Proteids. Fats. hydrates.^ in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

Heart of Fat Ox I ^ ^g ggg 1q 

weighing 2 lbs. f '- " ' ' . 

4 lbs. Bread..... - 3.84 .32 33.22 9^ 

Mlb. Sugar. ---- ll-^ ^ 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

1^ lb. Dried Apples 10 — - 4.50 6 

l^lb.Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

12 Smoked Herring (1 pound). 3.36 1.36 .-.- 10 

J41b.Suet -- 9-23 --- f 

31bs.Potatoes 64 — - 6.62 2)4 

H lb. Butter.. 3.33 — - QA 

^ lb. Skim Cheese 3.40 1.07 40 4 

Tea ---- """ "Is 

J,^lb. Coffee --" :": Z^ 

fqt. Whole Milk L16 1^ L65 _7_ 

Total -— 31-20 14.39 77.08 76 

Required:::::::::::;:: 19.19 13.42 78.03 ra 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



153 



Monday, Mat. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush, with Pea Soup (p. 117). 

Milk and Sugar. Mutton Stew (p. 52). 

Bread. Boiled Potatoes. 

Coffee. Bread. 
Supper. 

Bread Pancakes (p. 93). 

Fried Bacon. 

Tea. 

Prntpfrta Vnta CftrbO- Cost 

tToteios. J^-ats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

2E(rfir8 34 .33 .... 3 

941b. Oatmeal 1.74 .72 7.80 d9i 

V6U'. Coffee .... .... 3f 

Jilb. Sugar. .... 7.93 ^ 

1^ qts. Skim Milk 1.59 .36 1.48 6 

941b. Bacon 36 9.60 .... 9 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.38 .... 13.34 6 

41b8. Bread 3.84 .33 33.20 H 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.34 1.66 7 

3 lbs. Shoulder of Mutton 8.16 2.88 .... 21 

1 lb. Peas, Dried 3.68 .32 8.33 5 

mb. Flour 96 .12 5.72 1^ 

Total. 23.11 15.88 80.34 n.3 

Bequlred .... W.19 12.43 78.03 78 



154 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Tuesday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush and Milk. Fried Catfish 

Buttered Toast. with Mint Sauce (p. 

Coffee. Fried Potatoes. 

Bread. 

Supper. 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. 107). 

Broiled Salt Pork. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Proteids. 
oz. 

lib. Oatmeal 2.32 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1.16 

Iqt. SkimMilk 1.06 

3}^ lbs. Catfish 7.00 

IJ^lbs. Farina 2.50 

Segg-s 34 

4^ lbs. Bread 4.32 

Coffee.- 

21bs. Potatoes. 64 

%lb. Salt Pork 30 

%Vo. Butter 

M lb. Sugar 

Tea 

Total 19.64 

Required 19.19 



73). 





Carbo- 


Cost 




hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 


•96 


10.40 


5 


1.23 


1.65 


7 


.24 


1.65 


4 


.20 





n^i 




18.22 


7^ 


.32 





3 


.36 


37.36 


3| 





6.62 


2^ 


8.00 




m 


1.67 





m 




3.96 


m 






2 


12.98 


79.86 


74^ 


12.42 


78.03 


78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



155 



Satukday, September. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 
Soda Biscuit. Pea Soup (p. 117) 

Baked Potatoes with Irish Stew. 

DrawD Butter Sauce. Bread. 
Cocoa. 

Supper. 

Corn Mush and Molasses. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. ^^^ 

oz. oz. oz. 

1 lb. Dried Peas 3.68 .32 8.32 

2 lbs. ScrafT of Mutton 5.44 1.92 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 .... 9.94 

31b8. Bread 2.88 JU 24.90 

2 lbs. Cornmeal 3.14 .90 U.Xt 

Mlb.Susrar .... 3.96 

Ji lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 1.56 .08 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 

J41b. Buttei 3.33 

1J< lbs.. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 

J41b. Suet 8,92 

)4 lb. Molasses 2.48 

Cocoa Shells 

Tee 

Total 21.14 13.78 87.99 

llequired 19.19 12.42 T8.08 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 

5 
16 

m 

6t'o 
6 

I9i 

6»ij 

n 

2« 

2 

2 

78 



156 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Sunday, September. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal and Milk. Broiled Beef's Liver, 

Bread and Butter. Boiled Potatoes and Carrots 

Cocoa. with Fried Onions (p. 116). 

Bread and Cheese. 

Supper. 

Lentil Soup with Fried Bread (p. 118). 

Smoked Herring. 

Bread. Barley Porridge (p. 132). 

Proteids. rats. .Jarbo^-^ Cost 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

1>^ lbs. Beef 8 Liver 4.80 .% .... 15 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 9.94 3fi 

lib. Carrots 1.44 1]4 

1}^ lbs. Oatmeal 3.48 1.44 15.60 T^i 

1^ lb. Lentils 2.04 .16 4.32 5 

1^ qt. Whole Milk 1.74 1.85 2.48 W}4 

i^lb.Sug-ar .... 7.92 3^ 

•4 lb. Pearl Barley .44 .06 2.86 2 

}41b.Suet 3.92 .... 2 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

6 Smoked Herring ( 8 oz. ) 1.68 .68 .... 5 

Jilb. Butter 3.33 .... 6J4 

M lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 1.16 .... 3% 

CocoaShells 2 

Total 19.98 13.88 77.76 76x5 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Monday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Fried Bacon. 

Coffee. 



IHnner. 

Giblet Soup (p. 58). 

Baked Potatoes with 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Bread. 



2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.0* 

Giblets 2.20 

31b8. PoUtoes 96 

9ilb. BacoD .36 

4Hlb8. Bread 4.32 

Xlb.8u«ar 

M lb. Fat Cheese 3. 

1 lb. Salt Codfish 4.80 

Tea 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1J6 

M lb. Coffee 

Total 19.84 

Bequired 19.19 



Supper. 

Codfish Balls (p. 57). 

Cheese. 

Bread. Tea. 

Proteids. Fats, 
oz. oz. 

.64 
J2 

9.60 
.36 

2.48 
.16 

1.23 

15.60 
12.42 



0art)O- 

hydrates. 

oz. 

23.30 



9.94 

37.36 
7.92 
M 



1.66 



80.41 
78.08 



Cost 

in 

Cents. 

10 

8 

3« 
9 

8 
2 

7 

it 

76J4 
78 



158 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Tuesday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Bread. Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Corned Beef 

with Horseradisli Sauce. 

Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 

Barley Porridge (p. 122). 



Supper. 

Pea Soup. 

Yeast Biscuit and Butter. 

Stewed Fruit. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

1^ lbs. Corn Beef 6.96 

Slbs.Cabbage .•.. 80 

21bs. Flour 3.84 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 

1 lb. Dried Peas 3.68 

3Ji^ lbs. Bread 3.36 

^Ib. Bacon .24 

J4 lb. Butter _ 

%\h. Suet .... 

J^ lb. Pearl Barley 88 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 

Ipt.WholeMilk 58 

5^ lb. Coffee 

^ lb. Sugar 

Fruit 

Total.. 22.04 

Required 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 
1.54 

.48 

.32 

.28 
6.40 
3.33 
1.96 

.12 

.24 

.62 



15.29 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 

2. 

32.88 

6.62 

8.32 
29.06 



5.72 
1.65 



.92 



85. 
78.03 



>Cost 

In 
Cents. 

15 



2Ji 

5 

8^0 

6 

6^ 

1 

4 

4 

% 

3 



Bills of Fare, Class J. 



159 



Saturday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Corn Bread (p. 103). 

Coffee. 



I^inner. 

Browned Flour Soup (p. 121). 
Stewed Mutton. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Bread. 



Supper. 



. Baked Beans. Bread. 
Apple Dumplings (p. 108), 
with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 
Tea. 



ProteidB. 
oz. 

3 lbs. Neck of Mutton 8.16 

3 lt>6. Potatoes 98 

41b6.Bread 3.84 

1 lb. Flour 1.92 

21b6. Com Meal 3.14 

lib. Beans 3.68 

J<lb.8ugar 

Jilb.Bacon 24 

J^lb.Suet 

J^lb.Coffce 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1.1« 

Apples 

Tea 

Total 23.10 

Requirerl . 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 

in 

Cents. 


2.88 





24 


.32 


9.94 
33.20 


9i 


.24 


11.44 


3 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.32 


8.56 


5 


6.44 


7.92 


3« 
6 


1.96 
1.23 


1.66 


1 

3| 

7 

2 

2 


14.50 


»Al 


78 


12.42 


78.08 • 



160 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Sunday, January. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fried Codfish. Sheep's Head Stew 

Bread and Butter. with Soda Biscuit Dumplings. 

CofEee. Baked Potatoes. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 
Cocoa. 

Supper. 

Potato and Onion Salad. 

Broiled Salt Pork. Bread. 

Corn Mush with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 



Proteids. Fats. 



Carbo- Cost 
hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

2 lbs. Corn Meal 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

1 pt. Whole Milk 58 .62 .83 ^ 

i^lb.Sugar _... 7.92 3J^ 

31bs. Bread. 2.88 .24 24.90 6t\} 

1 lb. Salt Codfish 4.80 .... .-.- 8 

i^lb.Butter 6.66 .... V2\4 

J4 lb. Skim Cheese. 1.20 .53 .20 2 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 .... 13.25 5 

Mlb.SaltPork 12 3.20 .... 3 

M lb. Suet .... 3.92 .... 2 

M lb. Flour 1.44 .18 8.58 ^ 

1 Sheep's Head, assumed to 

contain IJ^ lbs. meat 4.08 1.44 .... 12 

Onions 2 

Cocoa Shells .... ---- 2 

Coffee .... ---- 3| 

Total 20.58 18^ 79.73 78 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Monday, January 
Breakfast. 

Fried Mush and Molasses. 
Bread. 
Coflfee. 



Supper. 



Dinner. 

Soup (from Boiled Beef) 

with Macaroni. 

Boiled Beef Flank 

with Mustard Sauce, 

Bean Puree. 

Bread. 




Boiled Potatoes with 
Butter Gravy. 
Dried Apple Roly Poly Pudding (p. 
Bread. Tea. 

Proteids 



2 lb. Beef Flank 8.72 

llb.Beans 8.68 

H lb. Dried Apples, 10 

2 lbs. Potatoes .«* 

21be.Com Meal 3.U 

mibs. Flour 2.88 

^ lb. Butter 

^ lb. Suet 

)4 lb. Molasses 

Hlb.Sujrar 

Slbs. bread 2.88 

IqL Whole Milk 1.1« 

J6 lb. Coffee 

Tea 

H lb. Macaroni .36 

Total 21.56 

Required 1».1» 



108). 



Fat« 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


1.76 





16 


.32 


8.S6 


5 




4.50 


6 





9JBZ 


^ 


1.20 


22.40 


« 


.36 


17.16 


*H 


3.33 





6J4 


3.92 





8 




2.48 


2» 





7.92 


3K 


.3* 
1.23 


24.90 
1.66 


3| 


-.-. 





8 


.08 


3.06 


8« 


12.3H 
12.43 


9B.2S 
78.08 


78 



163 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Potatoes. 
Bread. 
Coffee. 



Tuesday, January.' 



Dinner. 



Browned Farina Soup with 

Toast (p. 121). 

Stewed Mutton, with 

Yeast Dumplings. 



Supper. 

Bean Soup. 

Milk Toast. 

Tea. 

Proteids 
oz. 



Fats 



^Ibs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 

IJ^ lbs. Beans 5.52 .48 

M lb. Butter 3.33 

J^ lb. Suet r.84 

1^ lb. Sugar 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 

1^ lbs. Flour . - 2.88 .36 

1 qt. "Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 

31bs. Bread 2.88 .24 

J41b. Farina 42 

J^lb Coffee 

Tea 

Total 21.68 16.12 

Required 19-19 12.42 



Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates 


in 


oz. 


Cents 




20 


1.65 


4 


12.84 


7^ 





«J4 





4 


7.92 


3^ 


9.94 


4M 


17.16 


4« 


1.65 


7 


24.90 


«^ 


3.03 


m 


-— 


3| 


79.09 


TS" 


78.03 


78 



Bills of Fare, Class II. 



163 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS IL 



For family of six. Average price $1.26 per day, or 18 cts. 
per person. 

The bills of fare in this class will not be given in de*ail. 
Taking those given for Class I as a basis, it is expected that 
certain luxuries will be added and a better quality of food 
used; the quantities of Proteid, Fat and Carbohydrate will 
then not be lowered, which is the point of greatest im{>ortance. 



164 Bills of Fare, Class III, 

BILLS OF FARE, CLASS IIL 



For family of six. Average price, $1.38 per day, or 23 
cents per person. 

Saturday, May. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oranges. Beef Soup with 

Egg Omelet on Egg Sponge (p. 128). 

Toast. Macaroni with Cheese (p. 90). 

Boiled Rice with Dandelion Greens. 

Milk and Sugar. Bread. 



Coffee. 



Supper. 



Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 
Meat Croquettes (of soup meat) (p. 49). 
Graham Bread and Butter. 
Tea. Cake. 



Proteids 
oz. 

lib. Rice 1.28 

}^lb. Sugar 

6 Oranges 

94 lb- Macaroni 1.08 

41bs. Bread 3.84 

2 lbs. Flour 3.84 

J^lb. Coflfee 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

10 Eggs 1.70 

2i^lbs. Meat 8.40 

%: lb. Butter 

1^ lb. Fat Cheese 2.00 

Sour Cream and flavors for 

soup - 

Tea 

Total 24.46 

Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


.16 


12.24 


8 


.... 


7.92 


m 

10 


.... 


9.18 


mi 


.32 


33.22 


9i 


.48 


22.88 


6 
3| 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


1.60 





15 


2.20 





20 


9.99 


.... 


18% 


2.32 


.16 


7Ji 

6 
2 


19.53 


88.90 


136,V 


12.43 


78.03 


188 




Bills of Fare, Class III. 



165 




SuKDAT, Mat. 
Breaifcut. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush with sugar Ham and Eggs. 

and milk. Salad of Cold Beans and 

Bread and Butter. Lettuce 

Coffee. Rhubarb Pie. 

Cocoa. 
Bread. 
Supper. 

Rice Pancakes (p. 93), with 

Sugar Syrup. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Tea. 

Proteids ^ts ^^^^ ^ 

o^ o^ " oz. Cents. 

J41b. Oatmeal 1.74 0.^2 7.80 3| 

Ji lb. Coffee .-. ---- 3f 

llb.Sugar --.. 15.84 7 

2 qta. Whole MUk 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

?i lb. Butter ».9» ---- 1% 

1 lb. Ham 3.84 5.84 .... 26 

^Ib. Suet l.« .... 1 

ISE^ga 2.04 l.«2 — . 18 

Cocoa ---- — - * 

3 lbs. Potatoes. .96 .... 9M m 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 .32 33J» H 

mb.Lettuoe 10 .... .» 8 

lib. Beans 3.68 .32 8.65 5 

Rhubarb -— ---- 4 

H lb. Rice 64 .08 6.12 4 

lMilhe.Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4^ 

Tea -•-- — 2 

Salad Dreasinff — -- - * 

Total sioi 23.97 102.11 137 

Required 1».1» 12-42 78.08 138 




166 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, May. 



Breakfast. 

Oranges. 

Milk Toast. 

CofEee. 



Dinner. 



Roast Mutton and Bread 
Dressing (p. 106). 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Corn Mush with Sugar 

and Milk. 
Soda Cream (p. 136). 



Supper. 



Parsnip Soup (p. 119), with Yeast Dumplings (p. 128). 

Bread and butter. 

Sponge Cake. Tea. 

Proteids 
oz. 

3^1b8. Bread 3.36 

3 lbs. Mutton 8.16 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

IJ^lbs. Sugar 

lib. Flour 1.92 

% Ib.Butter 

^Ib. Coffee 

6 Orangres 

21b. Cornmeal 3.14 

4Eggs .68 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 

Tea 

Soda Cream 

Parsnips- 

Total -. 20.54 

^Required 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


.28 

2.88 


29.06 


8tV 
48 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


.24 


23.76 
11.44 


10^ 
3 


6.66 


.... 


12Ji 
3! 

10 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.64 





6 


— - 


9.94 


3% 
2 
3 
6 


14.36 
12.43 


99.90 
78.03 


13^ 
138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



167 



TuBSDAT, Mat. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Buttered Toast. Sorrel Soup (p. 120.) 

Coffee. Fried Catfish. 

Canned Fruit. Noodles (p. 90.) 

Bread. 
Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Supper. 

Fried Mush. 
Stewed Rhubarb. 
Fresh Rusks and Butter (p. 98). 
Tea. 

Protelds. Fata. ^^arb- , C<^t 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

Canned Fruit 16 

21b8. Corn Meal 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

31bs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 6^ 

IVi qtfi. Whole Milk 1.74 1.86 2.50 IQMt 

2 qts. Skim Milk 2.12 .48 3.30 8 

Rhubarb .... .... 8 

21b8. Flour 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

llb.Butter 13.38 .... 26 

Hlb.Sugrar .... 7iB m 

Sorrel &c. for Soup 6 

J41b. Rioe 64 .08 6.12 4 

Jiilb. Suet a«2 .... 2 

3 lbs. Fresh Fish 8.00 J84 .... 18 

J^lb. Coffee .... .... 3| 

4EKg8 68 .64 .... 6 

Tea 2 

Total 23.04 22.47 90.02 129JL 

Required 19.11 12.42 78.08 138 




168 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Saturday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Ilominy Mush with 
Sugar Syrup 
Stewed Pears. 

Toasted Crackers. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Plum Soup (p. 125). 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

Boiled Green Corn. 

Turnips and Potatoes (p. 116). 

Bread. 

Apple Pie (p. 109). 

Bupper. 



Irish Stew (p. 52). 

Biscuit and Butter. 

Yeast Doughnuts ( p. 99). 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fata, 

oz. oz. 

llb.Hominy _ 1.58 .60 

Pears and Plums 

21bs. Bread 1.92 .16 

}l^ lb. Crackers 50 

21bs. Beef Steak... 6.72 1.76 

1 doz. Green Corn 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 

Apples 

lib. Turnips. __ 15 

31bs. Flour. - - 5.76 .64 

i^lb. Suet 1.96 

lib. Mutton 2.72 .96 

9^1b.Butter 9.99 

2Egg-8 84 .32 

Tea 

llb.Sugar. 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 

i^lb. Coffee 

Total 20.83 17.63 

Required 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- 


Cost 


lydrates, 


in 


oz. 


Cents. 


11.20 


5 





5 


16.60 


4^ 


4.15 


5 





36 





15 


6.62 


^ 





4 


1.12 


OtV 


34.32 


9 





1 





8 




IWa 





4i 





2 


15.84 


r 


1.65 


7 


.... 


3f 


91.50 


138,V 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



169 



Sunday, Septkmber. 



Breakfast. 

Sour Milk Pancakes with 
Sugar Syrup (p. 103). 
Sausage. Bread. 
Cucumbers. 
Coffee. 



IHnner. 

Green Com Soup (p. 130). 

Fricaseed Chicken ( p. 57). 

Potatoes and Carrots (p. 116). 

with Fried Onions. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Fried Farina Pudding (p. 108. 
Water Toast. 
Radishes. 
Tea. 

Protelds. 



Radiebes 

1 lb. Saiua^ 2.3S 

lilb.Sugar 

1J< qts. Whole MUk L74 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 

J< doz. Green Corn 

An Old Chicken ( 3 Ibe.) 9.00 

8 lbs. Potatoes 60 

mb.Carrot« 

Cucumbers 

mib. Flour 2.88 

Hlb. Farina 84 

J4 lb. Butter 

Iqt. Sour MUk 1.06 

Coffee 

Tea 

2Ere8 M 

Total 21.66 

Required 19.19 

15 




Fatfl. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 


---. 


.... 


8 


6.00 


.... 


12 


.... 


9.90 


«4 


L86 


2.48 
24.90 


'% 


.... 


.... 


TH 


LM 


.... 


50 





6.60 


^ 


.... 


.72 


1 
» 
1H 


*.» 


17a« 


.... 


6.00 


9< 


3.33 




(H 


.24 


1.65 


4 





.... 


at 





.... 


8 


.33 


.... 


4i 


14.24 


69.41 


1271 


12.42 


78.06 


138 ' 



170 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Codfish Balls. 

Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 

Stewed Apples. 



Dinner. 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lemonade. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Berry Roly Poly (p. 108). 

Cheese. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats, 

oz. oz. 

«lb. Codfish 3.60 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

Slbs.Bread 2.88 .24 

%lb. Butter 9.99 

2 qts. Whole MUk 2.32 2.46 

lib. Sugar... — 

2Hlb8. Beef 8.40 2.20 

3 lbs. Tomatoes 

Lemons 

IJilb. Flour 3.88 .36 

J^ lb. Fat Cheese 2.00 2.32 

J^ lb. Coffee. 

Tea 

Fruit 

Total 24.36 17.57 

Required 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



13.24 
24.90 



3.30 

15.84 



4.00 



17.16 

.18 



78.62 
78.03 



Cost 

In 
Cents. 

6 

5 

6tt 
18% 
14 

7 
40 

5 

7 

4^ 



137 
138 



Bills of Fare, Class III, 



171 



Tuesday, September. 



Breakfast. 

Broiled Mackerel. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. 

CtofEee. 



Dinner. 

Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 

Roast Mutton 

with Bread StufiBng. 

Boiled Beets. 

Bread Pudding (p. Ill, No. 2). 



Supper. 

Apple Fritters (p. 114), 

with Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

l)i lbs. Flour 2.88 

^Egrsrs 68 

2 qta. Whole Milk 2.32 

1 lb. Sugar 

J^ lb. Suet 

1% lbs. Mutton 6.80 

21b8. Beets 

IH lbs. Salt Mackerel 4.66 

m lbs. Potatoes 48 

41bs. Bread 8.84 

Jilb. Butter 

Sour Cream and Apples 

>i lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Total 21.56 

Bequlred 19.19 




Fats, 
oz. 
.36 
.64 

2.46 

1.96 
2.40 

3.00 

.38 
6.66 



17.80 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 
17.16 

3.30 
15.84 



8.00 



4.96 
83.20 



79.46 
78.03 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 

8i 
14 

7 

1 
40 

5 

8 
8t 



135H 
188 



173 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Saturday, January. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Buckwheat Cakes and Roast Fresh Pork, with 

Sugar Syrup. Apple Sauce. 

Bread and Butter. Mashed Potatoes. 

Coffee. Indian Pudding (p. 110). 

Bread. 

Supper. 

Herring and Potato Salad. 

Lentils, with Prunes (p. 116). 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fata, 

oz. oz. 

3 lbs. 2uci:wheat Flour 3.04 .64 

IJ^lbs. ComMeai 2.28 .91 

lib. Butter 13.33 

J^lb.Sugar 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 

Apples 

21^ lbs. Fresh Pork 8.00 2.80 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 

2 Eggs 34 ,32 

Iqt. Skim Milk 1.16 .24 

31bs. Bread 2.88 ,24 

J^ lb. Lentils 2.04 .16 

J^lb. Prunes.. 15 

J^ lb. Coffee.- 

Tea 

6 Herring-s 1.68 .68 

Salad Dressing — 

Total 23.69 20.55 

Required -- 19.19 13.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents. 


23.20 


10 


16.80 


^ 





25 


11.88 


5H 


1.65 


7 


..-- 


4 


9.94 


mi 

i 


i.65 


4 


24.90 


6A 


4.32 


5 


3.80 


5 

3| 


.... 


2 


• •.. 


5 





5 


98.14 


13^ 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



173 



StrTTOAT, January. 

'Breakfast. . Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Cold Roast Pork, 

Pried Potatoes. Noodles (p. 90). 

Coffee. Stewed Cabbage. 

* Bread. 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Corn Coffee (p. 135). 

Supper. 

Potato Soup (p. 118). Grated Cheese. 

Bread and butter. 

Raised Cake (p. 98). Canned Fruit. 

Tea. 

Pi^telds Fat« ^Carb- . Cost 

°^ "^- oz. Centa 

H lb. Fat Cheese 1.08 .m .00 39i 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 .... 13.24 5 

2 lbs. Flour — 3.84 48 22.88 6 

4Egg:9 68 .64 .... S\i 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 2.46 3.30 14 

Iqt. Skim Milk 1.06 .34 1.65 4 

>i lb. Butter 9.99 .... 18?^ 

lib. Sugar -.. 15.43 7 

2 lbs. Fresh Pork 6.40 2.34 .... 30 

2 lbs. Cablmsre 80 .... 1.60 8 

Hlb. Rice 64 .08 6.12 4 

31bs. Broad 2.88 .24 24.90 6^ 

C!orn (dry grain) — — 2 

Canned Fruit .... .— 10 

J<Ib. Coffee .... — - 3| 

Tea .... ..- 2 

Total 30.98 17 i- W.17 133Jiy 

Required 19.19 J .U3 138 



174 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, Jandart. 



Breakfast. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Sausage. 

Coffee. 

Apple Sauce. 



Dinner. 

Pea Soup (p. 118). 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Barley Gruel (p. 121). 



Supper. 



Potato Soup with Egg and Bread Balls (p. 128). 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Canned Fruit. Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 

lib. Sausage 2.33 

21b8. Beef 6.72 

3 lbs. Potatoes -_. 96 

2 lbs. Tomatoes ( canned at 

home) 19 

31bs. Bread 3.88 

3 Eggs- 34 

f^lb. Barley 88 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

^Ib. Sugar 

lib. Dried Peas 3.68 

>1^ lb. Butter 

Canned Fruit 

i^lb. Coffee. 

Tea 

Apples 

Total 23.17 

Required 19.19 



Fats 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 




oz. 


Cents 


.64 


23.20 


10 


6.00 





13 


1.76 





33 


— - 


9.94 


W4. 




3.50 


B 


.24 


24.90 


Br^jf 


.32 





4i 


.12 


5.72 


4 


1.23 


1.65 


7 


.... 


7.92 


3^ 


.33 


8.33 


5 


6.66 





12^ 






10 






3| 







2 







5 







- 


17.29 


85.15 


1271 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Class III, 



ITo 



TUBSDAY, JaIHJARY. 



Breakfast. 

Graham Biscuits. 
Fried Bacon. Apple Sauce. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Mutton. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Winter Squash. 

Dried Apple Short Cakfc 

with Pudding Sauce. 

Corn Coffee. 



Supper. 

Mutton and Bean Broth. 

Bread and Butter. 

Cheese. Tea. 

Cookies. 



Protelds 
oz. 

Ji lb. Bacon 36 

mb. dried Apples 10 

1 lb. rjeans 3.68 

^4 lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 

1 lb. Sujrar 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

1^ lbs. Mutton 6.80 

3 1b. Potatoes 96 

2 lbs. Winter Squash 16 

Cookies 

21bs. Bread 1.92 

2Hlb9. Flour 4.80 

J4 lb. Butter 

J^ lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Apples 

Total 22.10 

Required 19.19 




Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Costs 

in 
Cent 


9.66 





9 





4.44 


6 


.32 


8.56 


6 


1.16 





3« 





15.84 


7 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


2.40 





30 




9.94 


3« 




3.20 


10 








16 


.16 


16.60 


4| 


.60 


27.94 


8« 


3.33 





8f 

8 

6 








20.09 
12.42 


89.82 
78.08 


138 



TWELYE COLD Di:tTKEES. 



If a man is to eat a cold dinner for months or even 
for weeks, it is quite worth while to make that din- 
ner as good as it can be, and to pack it nicely for carry- 
ing Every one knows how it can take the edge off 
even a keen appetite to find his sandwich smeared 
with apple pie, or his cake soaked with vinegar from 
the pickles. That a box or basket of given dimen- 
sions should hold as much as possible, and keep the 
different kinds of food separate, it must be divided 
into compartments. 

Simplest — an oblong basket, — divide into two 
compartments by a piece of pasteboard cut so that 
it slips in rather tightly, then line the two compart- 
ments with nice wrapping paper put in fresh every 
day. It may be divided into four parts in the same 
way. A close fitting tin spice box is nice for holding 
cheese. A tiny "salve" box should contain salt and 
pepper mixed. Sew leather straps on the cover of the 
basket inside, for holding knife, fork and spoon. 

Put a strap around the basket that you may hang 
from it a little pail containing cold soups recom- 
mended for drinks in summer. 

Cold puddings should be wrapped in strong writ- 
ing paper, then in wrapping paper and pinned close. 

176 



Twelve Cold Dinners. 



177 



COLD DINNERS FOR SUMMER. 



1. Bread and butter. 

Salad of potatoes and cold 

baked fish. 

Cold boiled beet. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Apple Soup. 

2. Corn Bread. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Baked sweet apples. 

Custard pie. 

Plum Soup 

8. Bread and butter. 

Cold veal. 

Hard boiled eggs. 

Pickled beets. 

Cherry Pie. 



4. Chopi)ed beef sandwiches. 

Salad of Lima Beans. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Irish Moss Lemonade. 



6. Graham bread. 

Cold roast mutton. 

Cucumbers and salt. 

Pumpkin pie. 

Soda cream. 

6. Bread and butter. 

Dried Beef. Crackers. 

Cheese. Sponge cake. 

Cold coffee. 



COLD DINNERS FOR WINTER. 



7. Bread. 

Cold boiled pork. 

Cold baked beans with 

mustard and vinegar. 

Doughnuts. 

Apple pie. 

Cold coffee. 

8. Yeast biscuits and butter. 

Cold chicken. 

Pickles. 

Cold rice pudding. 

Apples. 

9. Cold soda biscuits. 

Veal and ham sandwiches. 

Saratoga potatoes. 

Mince pie. 



10. Biscuits and butter with 

honey. 

Cold corn beef and rye 

bread. 

Dried apple tarts. 

Cheese. 



11. Bread and butter. 

Smoked Herring. 

Pickled beans. 

Gingerbread. 

Apples. 

12. Corn bread and butter. 
Cold roast beef and white 

bread. 

Bread and apple pudding. 

Bread cake. 



I]S"DEX. 



FAOK. 

Apple dumpling 109 

pie 109 

water 136 

Apples, food value of 84 

Bacon, balls in soup 128 

broiled 64 

fried 54 

with cabba^re 54 

Barley, analysis of 80 

tocook 86 

porridge 122 

with prunes 86 

Insoup. 127 

Beanflour 82 

soup 117 

Beans, cellulose in 82 

tocook 115 

dijrestibility of 77, 82 

proteid in 81 

with prunes 116 

Beef, anal3^is of, compared, 26, 27 

baked 41 

boiled 40 

broiled 42 

corned 47 

croquettes 49 

friedinfat 40 

bash 48 

heart 48 

Mver 47 

pie • 46 

pressed 49 

re-cooked 48 

stew 40 

tripe 48 

Biscuit, graham 102 

soda 102 

so<la in puddings 108 

yeast 97 

170 



PAOK. 

Bills of Fare, explanation of 142 
Class I, introduction to.. 143 

ClassI 151 

ClassII 163 

Class III 164 

Bonny Clabber 64 

Bread, corn 97 

dressing 106 

additional facts about ... 96 

in foreign countries 16 

fritters 114 

graham 96 

making 94 

making, principles in- 
volved in 91 

omelet 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding 110 

re-baked 106 

rye 97 

steamed 90 

stale, steamed 106 

soup 121 

uses for 106 

Buckwheat, analysis of 80 

pancakes 100 

Buns, plain 98 

fruit 98 

Butter, artificial 70 

substitutes for 68 

to try out 71 

Buttermilk cheese (see Cot- 
tage cheese). 

to keep fresh 64 

pudding 108 

soup 128 

uses for 64 

Cake,ral8ed 96 

Johnny 108 



180 



Index. 



PAGE. 

Cake, short 103 

short, strawberry 108 

Carbohydrates 6 

amount iu diet 76 

containing foods 75 

digestibility of 77 

function of 9 

Cellulose 75 

inbeans 76 

its uses 83 

Charcoal, use of 31, 43 

Chocolate 134 

soup 123 

Cheese, cottage 64 

cooked with bread 61 

digestibility of 30 

fondamin 63 

food value of 29 

grated 61 

proteidin 5 

use abroad 30 

Chicken, fricaseed 57 

soup _ 57 

Cider, bottled 136 

soup 134 

Coffee 133 

com 135 

Com (Indian), analysis of 80 

bread 97,103 

flour 87 

gruel 135 

mush 87 

pancakes 87, 104 

pone.. 88 

porridge 133 

pudding 107 

Croquettes, meat 49 

Dietary, army 66 

Bavarian 67 

standard 3,10-13 

ofpoorfamily 13 

Dinners, Twelve Cold 175 

Doughnuts.. 99 

Drinks at meals 133 

Economy, its true scope 13 

Egg dishes 59 



PAQK. 

Eggs, food value of 29, 58 

hard boiled 50 

omelets 60 

proteidin 5 

raw 50 

soft boiled 50 

Egg sponge for soup 128 

Farina, pudding 108 

soup 121 

Fats in army dietary 66 

different, compared 69 

digestibility of 68 

function of 9 

importance of 67 

uses of in cooking 71 

Fish balls 57 

fresh 55 

food value of 28 

chowder 55 

salt 56 

soup 56 

Flavorings 9, 130 

Flour, fine wheat 89 

raised with egg 92 

raised with soda 100 

raised with yeast 93 

qualityof 94 

Fondamin 63 

Food Principles, definition of 4 

functions of 7 

proportion of in diet 10 

Fritters 113 

bread 114 

egg-raised 113 

soda-raised 113 

fruit 114 

Fruits, digestibility of 84 

dried 84 

fritters 114 

food value of 83 

soups 124 

puddings 108 

Gelatine, history of 23 

Graham biscuits 108 

bread 96 

gems 88 



Index. 



181 



I 



PAGE. 

Graham, pancakes 1(M 

GraiDfi, analysis of 80 

cooking of 86 

Grapes, suerar Id 84 

Gruels 136 

Ham, cakee 64 

croquettes 54 

boiled 53 

broUed 54 

fried 54 

sandwiches 53 

Hash, meat 4« 

Heatsarer 44 

Hominy, fried 87 

Mushes, fried 87 

tomake 86 

other usesfor 87 

Intrtxluction 1 

Kitchen, arrangement of 18 

utensils 19 

Lard 72 

Lentils, to cook 115 

foodvalueof 81 

soup 118 

Lemonade, Irish moss 136 

Macaroni, to cook 89 

insoup 129 

with tomatoes 90 

Marrow 71 

Meat balls in soup 129 

consumption of 11 

methods of cooking 3S 

structure of 33 

tough, to make tender. . . 45 
Milk, analysis of 63 

<H^nnjn| f 63 

sour, usesfor 64 

Mintsauce 74 

Muffins 93 

Mutton, modes of cookintr • ■ 51 

Noodles 90 

Noodlesoup 91 

Oats, food value of 79 

analyslsof 80 

Oatmeal gruel US 




TAGS. 

Oatmeal, musb...^ 86 

Omelets (see Eggs). 

Oils, for frying 41 

Pancakes, soda 87, 103 

egg-raised 96 

yeast-raised 99, 100, 104 

Parsnip soup 119 

Pears, food value of 84 

Peas Split, to cook^ 115 

foodvalueof 118 

Peasoup 118 

Plumsoup 134 

Piecrust 92 

apple 109 

Pork and apples 65 

and beans 56 

ways of cooking S6 

foodvalueof 27 

Potato, cooking of the 115 

crust 46 

food>'alueof 82 

omelet U4 

soup 118 

Porridges 128 

Proteids 5 

function of 7 

containing foods 22 

vegetable 78 

Pudding, Berry Betty 110 

bread 110 

bread and butter Ill 

Brown Betty 110 

buttermilk 108 

custard 110 

farina 108 

Indian Wl, 110 

individual lU 

minute 107 

rice UO 

sago 110 

sauoe 112 

suet 112 

tapioca 110 

Rioe, analysis of 80 

foodvalueof 79 

to cook 86 



182 



Index, 



PAGE. 

Bice, gruel 135 

omelet 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding 107, 110 

Rolls 97 

Busks 98 

Rye flour, analysis of 80 

bread 97 

Salts ---- 6 

Sauces, drawn butter 73 

meat 74 

Schwaben Spetzcl 128 

Sick, cookery for tlie 136 

Starch, in dietary 78 

digestibility of 77 

Sodia Cream 136 

Sorrel soup 120 

Soup, additions to 126 

analysis of 24 

fish 121 

fruit - - 124 

meat, to make 33 

milk - 39,122 

use of in Europe 16 

vegetable 117 

81 



PAGE. 

Sugar, consumption of 15 

food value of 80 

Suet pudding 112 

totryout 40 

uses of 71, 72 

Tea 134 

Thermometer, use of 43 

Tomato omelet 61 

sauce 74 

soup 119 

Tripe, to cook 48 

Veal, modes of cooking SO 

Vegetable food, digestibility 

of - 77 

Vegetables, cooking of 115 

food value of 83 

with fruits 116 

mixed 116 

soups 117 

Water 5 

Wheat 79 

analysis of 80 

flour, cooking of 89-104 

Welsh rarebit 62 



TIIE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH 
ASSOCIATION, 

Organized in 1872 by a few eminent sanitarians, has grown 
in fourteen years to be the strongest and ablest association of 
its kind in America, if not in the world, and contains in its list 
of members, physicians, lawyers, clergymen, teachers, en- 
gineers, architects, and representatives of other trades and 
professions. Its influence has been felt in the legislative halls 
of the nation, as well as in every state and territory, for the 
amelioration of sickness and suffering, and the prolongation of 
human life. 

The fourteen large and elegant volumes it has published are 
in themselves a monument to American hygiene, while their 
precepts and teachings have been felt through all ranks and 
grades of society, from the workshop to the mansion of the 
millionaire. No library is complete in its literature of sanita- 
tion without these works. 

Each meniber of the Association receives a copy of the 
annual volume free of expense. This work alone is worth 
more to any individual than the cost of membership. 

EXTRACT FROM CONSTITUTION, Art. III. 

The members of this Association shall be known as Active 
and Associate. The Executive Committee shall determine for 
which class a candidate shall be proposed. The Active mem- 
bers shall constitute the permanent body of the Association, 
subject to the provisions of the Constitution as to continuance 
in membership. They shall be selected with special reference 
to their acknowledged interest in or devotion to sanitary studies 
and allied sciences, and to the practical application of the 
same. The Astoctate meinl)ers shall be ek'Cte<l with siiccial 
reference to their general interest only in sanitary science, and 
shall have all the privileges and publications of the Associa- 
183 




184 American Public Health Association. 

lion, but shall not be entitled to vote. All members shall be 
elected as follows: 

Each candidate for admission shall first be proposed to the 
Executive Committee in writing (which may be done at any 
time), with a statement of the business or profession, and 
special qualifications, of the persons so proposed. On recom- 
mendation of a majority of the committee, and on receiving a 
vote of two thirds of the members present at a regular meeting, 
the candidate shall be declared duly elected a member of the 
Association. The annual fee of membership in either class, 
shall be five dollars. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMERICAN 
PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 

PUBLIC HEALTH : Reports and Papers of the 
American Public Health Association. Volumes 1 to 14 
inclusive and one volume to be issued annually. These vol- 
umes contain the papers presented at the annual meetings of 
the Association, with the discussions upon each, and constitute 
large and very handsome works. Each member of the Asso- 
ciation is entitled to the annual volume. A small edition is 
also placed in the hands of the treasurer for sale. At the 
present time there are but few complete sets on hand, and 
these are being rapiGly taken by libraries. 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS: Their Ap- 
plication AND Use in the Prevention and Treatment 
OF Disease, and in Public and Private Sanitation, by 
the Committee on Disinfectants, appointed by the American 
Public Health Association. 

The following is the list of authors of this work: George M. 
Sternberg, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and Fellow by 
Courtesy in the Johns Hopkins University; Joseph H. Ray- 
mond, M. D., Professor of Physiology and Sanitary Science in 
Long Island College Hospital; Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., 
Ph. D., Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Univer- 
sity of Michigan, and Member of the Michigan State Board of 



tjOinh Prize Essays. 185 

Heallh; Chari-es Smart, M. D., Surgeon U. 8. Army, and 
member of the National Board of Health; George H. Roh&, 
M. D., Professor of flygiene in the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Baltimore; Joseph Holt, M. D., President of the 
Louisiana State Board of Heallh; Samuel H. Duhqin, M. D., 
health officer of Boston; and J. R. Duggan, M. D. 

The original experimental investigations made by these 
specialists are of great imix)rtance and value, and render this 
work the most complete and practical volume upon disinfec- 
tion and disinfectants yet published. A large amount of 
original work is devoted to the various micro-organisms, and 
in determining the value of many of the so-called disinfectants 
and germicides. The biological work was conducted mostly 
at the Johns Hopkins University under the Supervision of Dr. 
Sternberg, and at the University of Michigan under Dr. 
Vaughan. Various apparatus used for disinfecting purposes, 
as well as the admirable quarantine system at New Orleans, 
are fully described and illustrated. The chapter on Pto- 
maines, by Dr. Vaughan, is of great value. 

The labors and investigations of these gentlemen extended 
over a period of three years, and involved no inconsiderable 
expense. 

The work con.<»i8ts of two hundred and sixty-five pages, with 
sixty -eight illustrations, printed upon v«ry heavy paper made 
especially for this volume, and is elegantly bound iu handsome 
English cloth. The price has been placed at the low figure of 
two dollars per volume. Sent postpaid on receipt of price. 

LOME PRIZE ESSAYS. 

ie«e exceedingly valuable essays, written by authors of 
^viat ability, and selected as the best out of many received in 
competition, by coramitteea of award who were selected by 
the American Public Health Association, the Conference of 
State Boards of Health, and the National Board of Health, and 
whose names alone guarantee the high character of the works, 
are being placed before the public at cost, through means 





186 Lomb Prize Essays. 

that are being furnished the American Public Health Asso- 
ciation. 

No. I. Healthy Homes and Foods for the Working-Classes. 
By Prof. Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Judges:— Dr. E. M. Moore, Pres. State Bd. of Health, Roch- 
ester, N. Y.; Dr. C. W. Chancellor, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, 
Baltimore, Md. ; Medical Director Albert L. Gihon, U.S. Navy, 
Washington, D. C. ; Dr. J. H. Raymond, Health Commissioner, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. ; Major Charles Smart, Surgeon U. 8. A., 
Washington, D. C. 

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. 

Location; the cellar; the walls; the floors; arrangement of 
rooms; the windows; heating and ventilation; water-supply; 
the disposal of waste: the surroundings; the care of the home; 
buying or renting a house; tenement-houses; foods and food 
stuffs; the nutritive value of foods; the economic value of 
foods. Animal foods; — general properties; methods of cook- 
ing meat; milk; butter; cheese. Vegetable foods; — cereals and 
grains; flour and meal; bread; pease and beans; potatoes; 
other vegetables; starches; sugars; fruits; nuts; vegetable oils; 
condiments; tea; coffee; chocolate. 
8vo paper, 63 pp. Price 10 cts. 

Same in English-German (alternate pages in German) .15. 

No. 2. The Sanitary Conditions and Necessities of School- 
Houses and Scoool-Life. By D. F. Lincoln, M. D., 
Boston, Mass. 

Judges: — Hon. Erastus Brooks, LL. D., State Bd. of Health, 
New York; Dr. H. P. Walcott, State Bd. of Health, Lunacy, 
and Charity, Cambridge, Mass.; Dr. Granville P. Conn, Pres. 
State Bd. of Health, Concord, N. H. ; John Eaton, Commis- 
sioner of Education, Washington, D. C; Col. George E. War- 
ing, Jr., C. E., Newport, R. I. 

Site: dampness, the cellar, contamination of soil and air, 



Lomb Prize Essays. 



187 



drainage, foundation walls, neighborhood, etc. Plan and ar- 
rangement of the building; architecture, doors, windows, 
recitation and classrooms, stairways, fire escapes, etc. Ven- 
tilation and heating; amount of fresh air and cubic space re- 
quired, introduction of fresh air, carbonic acid gas exhaled, 
dimensions of ventilating apparatus, size of flues, circulation 
of air in room, ventilating by steam power, "indirect" heat- 
ing, testing atmosphere of school-room, source of air supply, 
water closets, ventilatingstoves, open windows, ventilators, 
etc. Sewerage: bad air dangerous to health, waste-pipes, 
traps, ventilation of traps, closets, flush tanks, urinals, privies, 
disinfectants. Hygiene of the eye: nearsightedness, rules for 
using the eyes, location of windows, type used in school- 
books, curtains, and blinds. School desks and gymnastics: 
construction of seats, physical training. Affections of the 
nervous system: competition for prizes, lack of exercise, dress. 
Contagious diseases in schools. Sanitary supervision. This 
work contains fifteen illustrations. 
8vo paper, 38 pages. Price, 5 cts. 



No. 3- Disinfection and Individual Prophylaxis against 
Infectious Diseases. By George M. Sternbeko, M.D., 
Major and Surgeon U. S. A. 

Judges:— Dr. S. H. Durgin, Health Officer, Boston, Mass.; 
Dr. J. E. Reeves, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Wheeling, VV.Va.; 
Dr. Guslavas Devron, Pres. Aux. San. Assn., Hew Orleans, 
La.; Prof. Richard McSherry, M. D., Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
James L. Cabell, LL. D., University of Virginia, Va. 

Disinfection; groups of disinfectants. 

Gkoup I. — 1. Fire; 2. Steam under pressure; 3. Boiling 
water; 4. Chloride of lime; 5. Liquor, soda chlorinattc; 6. 
Mercuric chloride. 

Group IL— 7. Dry heat; 8 Sulphur dioxide; 9. Carbolic 
acid; 10. Sulphate of copper: 11. Chloride of zinc; general 
directions for disinfection; disinfection of excreta, etc.; dis 
iofeclion of person ; disinfection of clothing and btddiug; 



188 Lomh Prize Essays. 

disinfection of the sick room; disinfection of privy vaults, 
cess pools, etc.; hospitals; disinfection of water and articles of 
food; disinfection of ships; merchandise. Individual prophy- 
laxis against infectious diseases; cholera; yellow fever; small- 
pox; scarlet fever; diphtheria; tuberculosis; typhoid fever; 
concluding remarks, etc. 

This essay is undoubtedly the best ever written in the 
English language upon the prevention of disease, and ought 
to be placed in the hands of every family. 

8vo paper, 40 pp. Price, 5 cts. 

Same in English German (alternate pages in German) .10. 

No. 4. The Preventable Causes of Disease, Injury^ and 
Death in American Manufactories and Workshops, 
and the Best Means and Appliances for Preventing 
and avoiding Them. By Geouge H. Iueland, Spring- 
field, Mass. 

Judges:— Dr. E. M. Hunt, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Tren- 
ton, N. J. ; Dr. A. N. Bell, Editor Sanitarian, New York City; 
Major George M. Sternberg, Surgeon, U. S. A., Baltimore, 
Md.; Major John S. Billings, LL. D., U. S. A., Washington, 
D. 0. ; Mr. W. P. Dunwoody, Secretary National Board of 
Health, Washington, D. C. 

Construction of workshops; elevators; fire-escapes; sanitary 
condition; plumbing; ventilation; sunlight; heating; lighting; 
precaution against fires; dust in factories; ice supply ; handling 
heavy goods; machinery; saws and moulding machines; grind- 
stones; railroading; emergencies; contagious diseases; cleanli- 
ness; facilities for workmen, etc. 

8vo paper, 20 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

The four essays, in one volume of nearly two hundred large 
octavo pages, thoroughly indexed, bound in cloth, 50 cts. 

The same printed upon extra heavy paper made especially 
for this edition, and bound in expensive brown cloth with gold 
and black finish, making an elegant and handsome volume, 
$0.75. 






y/yi^///A9/^^//M 




^wtrnftm-^ii 



tj 




^r 



^M. 



mi 



^W# 



New lork 
j'tate (College of AgrimlturB 

At (ifarneU IniaerattH 

atljaca, BJ. ^. 

Hibtarjj 



-0 


X 




X 






"^"1 


5" 


" 


> 




-AD 




'^^^■i: 


3 






o^Hi 


^ 


5" 


— '^^^ga 




2. 


en o 


< 

r- 


cn^^^=o 


5= 


^ ^^BS 


3" 


^^^^o 


^ 






^ s 




— *-=^^o 




so 




, ~ 




1 5- 




5 £ 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001625411 



PRAOTIOAi 



ADAPTED TO 



PERSONS OF MODERATE AND SMALL MEANS 



Mks. Mart Hinmai^ Abel. 



THE LOME PRIZE ESSAY. 



Inscription: " The Five Food Principles, Illustrated 
hy Practical Recipes." 



PUBLISHED BY THE 

AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 
1890. 



COPTBIQHT, 1889, BT iBTTNa A. WATSON, SECBETABT AMEEICAH 

Public Health Association. 



PRINTED BT B, B. ANDBBWS, BOCHBSTEB, N. T. 



PREFACE. 



Perhaps there is no better way of presenting to the 
public the facts which led to the creation of this 
valuable work, than by inserting the announcement 
which resulted in the exceedingly lively and a"ble 
competition for the prize, as well as the merited honor 
which was certain to fall upon the successful com- 
petitor. It read as follows : 

AMEEIOAN .PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION". 



The Lomb Pbize Essays. 

Two Prizes for 1888. 

Mr. Henry Lomb, of Rochester, N.T., now well known 
to the American public as the originator of the "Lomb' 
Prize Essays," offers, through the American Public 
Health Association, two prizes for the current year, on 
the following subject: 

Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 

Adapted to Persons of Moderate 

AND Small Means. 



Pirst Prize, $500, - - Second Prize, 

Judges: Prof. Charles A. Lindsley, New Haven, 
Conn.; Prof. George H. Rohe, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
Victor C. Vaughan, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, Boston, Ma.ss.; Miss Emma C. G. Poison, 
New Haven, Conn. 

Conditions: The arrangement of theessay will be left 
to the discretion of the author. They are, however, 



Preface. jjl 

' expected to cover, in the broadest and most specific 
manner, methods of cooking as well as carefully pre- 
pared receipts, for three classes, — ( 1 ) those of moderate 
means; (3) those of small means; (3) those who may be 
called poor. For each of these classes, receipts for three 
meals a day for several days in succession should be 
given, each meal to meet the requirements of the body, 
and to vary as much as possible from day to day. For- 
mulas for at least twelve dinners, to be carried to the 
place of work, and mostly eaten cold, to be given. 
Healthfulness, practical arrangement, low cost, and, 
palatableness should be combined considerations. The 
object of this work is for the information of the house- 
wife, to whose requirements the average cook-book is ill 
adapted, as well as to bring to her attention healthful 
and ecconomic m.ethods and receipts. 

All essays written for the above prizes must be in the 
hands of the Secretary, Dr. Irving A. Watson, Concord, 
N. H., on or before September 15, 1888. Each essay 
must bear a motto, and have accompanying it a securely 
sealed envelope containing the author's name and ad- 
dress, with the same motto upon the outside of the 
envelope. 

After the prize essays have been determined upon, the 
envelopes bearing the mottoes corresponding to the 
prize essays will be opened, and the awards made to the 
persons whose names are found within them. The re- 
maining envelopes, unless the corresponding essays are 
reclaimed by authors or their representatives within 
thirty days after publication of the awards, will be 
destroyed, unopened, by the Secretary. 

None of the judges wiU be allowed to compete for a 
prize. 

The judges will announce the awards at the Annual 
Meeting of the American Public Health Association, 
1888. 

It is intended that the above essays shall be essen- 
tially American in their character and application, and 



i"v Preface. 

this will be considered by the judges as an especial 
merit. 

Competition is open to authors of any nationality, 
but all the papers must be in the English language. 

Tbting a. Watson, 

Secretary. 
Concord, N. H., February, 1888. 

The above circular was extensively circulated and 
published throughout the United States and the 
Dominion of Canada, with the result of bringing to 
the Secretary, within the specified time, seventy essays 
upon the subject announced. The arrival of these 
essays covered a period of nearly five months, and 
they were forwarded to the Chairman of the Commit- 
tee of Award nearly as fast as received, thus giving 
the committee ample time for their exceedingly 
laborious work of examination. The decision of the 
judges was announced at the Sixteenth Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Public Health Association, and 
was as follows: 

Keport op Committee on the Lomb Prizes. 

Tour committee, to whom were referred the essays 
upon "Practical Sanitary and Economic Cooking 
Adapted for Persons of Moderate and Small Means," 
respectfully report that they have perused with thought- 
ful and considerate attention the three score and ten 
essays which were submitted to them. 

A few of them were presented in beautiful specimens 
of type- writing, but the great majority of them were in 
manuscript, and some of them not in the moot legible 
characters, a circumstance which, it will be appreciated, 
became an important matter, when considered in con- 
nection with the large number of competitors, and the 
fact that many of their papers were each of several 
hundred pages in length. 



Preface. v 

The result of the labors of the committee is, that by 
unanimous approval, the first prize of $500 is awarded to 
the author of the essay bearing this inscription,—" The 
Five Pood Principles, illustrated by Practical Recipes." 

Your committed would further report that although 
there were among the remaining sixty-nine a number of 
essays of considerable merit, there was no single one so 
prominently superior to others as to commend the ap- 
proval of the majority of your committee, nor was there 
any which didnotcontainsomeerrors of statement, which 
your committee did not feel justified in endorsing with 
the approval of this Association by the bestowal of a 
prize, or else which did not fail to meet some of the con- 
ditions upon which the prize was offered, or which was 
not otherwise, objectionable because of literary defects. 

Your committee would therefore respectfully report 
that no essay was found among those submitted to them 
which they judged deserving of the second prize of $200. 

The committee consider it a duty, in awarding the 
prize, to emphasize the fact that of all the essays sub- 
mitted the one selected is not only preeminently the 
best, but that it is also intrinsically an admirable treatise 
on the subject. 

It is simple and lucid in statement, methodical in ar- 
rangement, and well adapted to the practical wants of 
the classes to which it is addressed. Whoever may read 
it can have confidence in the soundness of its teachings, 
and cannot fail to be instructed in the art of cooking by 
its plain precepts, founded as they are upon the correct 
application of the scientific principles of chemistry and 
physiology to the proper preparation of food for man. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

C. A. LlNDSLEY. 

George H. Rohb. 
V. C. Vaijghan. 
Ellbst H. Richards. 
Emma C. G. Polsost. 



vi Preface. 

The American public is to be congratulated upon 
this useful and valuable contribution to the needs of 
its great army of working people, made possible 
through the humanitarian benevolence of a private 
citizen. This was the fifth prize offered by the same 
citizen, through the same channel, for the noble pur- 
pose of ameliorating, in some degree, the hardships 
which befall mankind in the tireless struggle for 
existence. 

That this essay may be placed in the hands of every 
family in the country, is his earnest desire as well as 
that of the Association; therefore a price barely cover- 
ing the cost has been placed upon this volume. It is 
to be hoped, that Government departments, state and 
local boards of health, sanitary and benevolent asso- 
ciations, manufacturers, employers, etc., will purchase 
editions at cost, or otherwise aid in distributing this 
work among the people. 

Although a copyright has been placed upon these 
essays for legitimate protection, permission to publish 
under certain conditions, can be obtained by address- 
ing the secretary. 

We commend this volume to the public, believing 
it to be an unequaled work upon " Practical Sanitary 
and Economic Cooking, adapted to persons of mode- 
rate and small means." 

Secretary American Public Health Association. 



TABLE OF OOI^TE]SrTS. 



PAGE. 

General Introduction, 1 

The Kitchen, 18 

I. Protbid-containing Foods (Animal Sort), and 

THEIR Preparation, 22 

Methods of Cooking Meat, 32 

Soup Making, 33, 39 

Boiling Meat, ...34, 40 

Frying in Fat, 35, 40 

Baking Meat, 36, 41 

Broiling Meat, 36, 42 

Use of Thermometer,.. 43 

Heat Saver 44 

To Make Meat Tender, 45 

Recipes for Cooking Meat, 46 

Beef 46 

Veal, 50 

Mutton and Lamb, 51 

Pork, _ 52 

Fish and Fish Soups, 55 

Fowl and Fowl Soups, 57 

I and Egg Dishes, 58 

Cheese and Cheese Dishes, _ 61 

Care and Use of Milk, 63 

Sour Milk, 64 

II. Fats AND Oils, _ _ 66 

Uses of Pats,.. 71 

Meat and Vegetable Sauces, 72 

III. The Carbohtdratk-containing Foods and their 

Preparation,... 75 

Grains, 79 

Sugars, 80 

Legumes, 81 

Potatoes and other Vegetables, 82 

Fruits, 83 

The Cooking of Grains,... 85 

Grains Cooked Whole, _ 85 

Cookingof Grits, 86 

Corn Flour, 87 

Graham Flour, 88 

Fine WheatFlour,. 89 

vii 



viii Table of Contents. 

Macaroni and Noodles, 89 

Flour Raised with Fat, 91 

Flour Raised with Egg, 92 

Egg Pancakes, &c 92 

Flour Raised with Carbonic Acid Gas, -.- 93 

(a) Yeast Raised, 

White Bread,. 94 

Rye and Corn Bread, 97 

Biscuits, Rolls, &c. 97 

Yeast Pancakes, 99 

Buckwheat Flour, 100 

(b) Raised with Soda, 

Methods, 101 

Soda Biscuits, 102 

Uses of Biscuit Dough, <fcc. 102 

Soda Com Breads, 103 

Soda Pancakes, without Eggs, 103 

Soda Pancakes, with Eggs, 104 

Uses for Bread, 105 

Simple Sweet Dishes, 107 

Milk Puddings, 107 

Fruit Puddings, with Biscuit Dough, ^ 108 

Fruit Puddings, with Bread, 109 

Custard Puddings, ._ 110 

Bread and Custard Puddings, 110 

Suet Puddings, 112 

Pudding Sauce, 112 

Fritters, 113 

Cooking of Vegetables, 115 

Soups, without Meat, 117 

Vegetable Soups, 117 

Flour and Bread Soups, 121 

Milk Soups or Porridges, 133 

Fruit Soups, 124 

Additions to Soups, 126 

Dumplings for Soups and Stews,. 127 

Flavors and Seasonings 130 

Drinks, .... 1 183 

COOKKKT FOB THE SiCK, 137 

Twelve Bills of Fake — Explanation, 142 

Class I. (with letter of advice to mother of the family), 143 

Class II 163 

Class III. , 164 

Twelve Cold Dinners, 176 



One of the most useful and probably most widely 
circulated of the publications that have been issued 
by the American Public Health Assopiation is the 
Lomb Prize Essay, "Practical Sanitary and Econ- 
omic Cooking ", by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel. With 
the view of making this book of still greater utility, 
and of adding to it the useful knowledge of the sub- 
ject that has been gained in the ten years that have 
passed since its first publication, Mrs. Abel has pre- 
pared a very useful addition to the essay in the form 
of two papers, which will be bound with it, on 
" Eood of Children " and " Some Eemarks on House- 
hold Management." These papers were submitted to 
the members of the Executive Committee, who have 
most cordially endorsed them, and approved of their 
publication. 

The paper on "Food of Children" is entirely new, 

as this subject was not considered in the original 

essay. This paper is a most excellent guide for 

mothers for the feeding of children from birth to the 

age of twelve years, and adds materially to the value 

of the book. 

C. 0. PEOBST, 

Secretary American Pullic 

Health Association. 
Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 3, 1900. 



INTEODUOTIOK 



Few things are of more importance than that we 
should find ourselyes physically and mentally equal to 
our day's work, but not many of us realize how largely 
this depends upon the food we eat. 

Supposing there to be just money enough in a given 
family to buy the right kind and quantity of food. 
Now if this money is not wisely expended, or if after 
the food has been bought it is spoiled in the cooking, 
the results will be very serious for the members of 
that family; they will be under-nourished and they 
will suffer in clear-headedness, bodily strength, and 
in the case of children, in bodily development. 

Surely the right condition of the body is too im- 
portant to be left to chance ; the best scientific knowl- 
edge, the best practical heads should be at its service, 
and this is the case, indeed, to a large extent in Eu- 
rope, where the food of the soldiers and of the inmates 
of public institutions is furnished more or less ac- 
cording to certain rules that have been deduced 
partly from observation, and partly from scientific 
experiment. 

The application of scientific principles on these lines 
is not of long standing, for the investigations that have 
clinched them are all of comparatively recent date. At 



2 History of Food Stuay. 

the end of the last century a beginning was made in 
France and in G-ermany in connection with philan- 
thropic efforts to improve the food of the poor, and it 
was at this time that Count Enmford introduced into 
the soup kitchens of Munich, the soup that has been 
named after him. From this time on interest in the 
subject of foods, both for men and domestic animals, 
steadily increased, although experimenters were con- 
stantly coming to wrong conclusions because the 
sciences of Organic Chemistry and Physiology, as far 
as they concerned the subject, were not far enough 
advanced. 

It was only in the early forties that the first ex- 
perimental agricultural stations were established, but 
so rapidly have they multiplied that they now number 
more than a hundred in Europe alone; and in these 
and in the laboratories of the great universities, 
analyses have been made of most of the foods used by 
men and animals, and also tests of the relative flesh 
and fat producing power of different foods and com- 
binations of foods. 

For years the results of these investigations have 
been applied with profit to the feeding of cattle, 
but it was a case of threatened wholesale starvation 
in England that first turned the attention of properly 
trained persons to a like study of the nourishment of 
human beings. During our civil war the condition of 
the cotton spinners in Lancashire and Cheshire, Eng- 
land, became so serious as to make government help 
necessary to keep them from starving, and in 1863 and 
1863 Dr. Edward Smith was commissioned to examine 
into the the dietetic needs, of the distressed operatives. 



English Investigations. 3 

In his report for 1863 are found tables of the food con- 
sumed per week by 634 families, and in spite of the dif- 
ficulties standing in the way of such an investigation, 
the foods consumed were classified into tables showing 
the amounts of the different food principles taken 
per week by each family. 

One of the great practical results following from 
this investigation was the determination of the mini- 
mum amount of each nutritive principle which men, 
women and children need, to keep them in fair health. 
The amount of food with which an unemployed man 
can fight off starvation, and the diseases temporarily 
incident to it, was found to be represented in 35 ounces 
of good bread per day, and the necessary amount of 
wholesome water. 

Since the publication of Dr. Smith's report similar 
inquiries have been instituted by the scientists of other 
countries, and many analyses have been made of 
the exact amount and kinds of food eaten by various 
classes of laborers under the most varied conditions. 
Professors Voit and Pettenkofer of Munich have even 
accounted for every particle of food that passed 
through the body of a man, both while he was at work 
and while he was idle. They have also noted how 
much of his own body was consumed when he ate 
nothing. Finally, a great number of averages have 
been taken and so-called " standard dietaries" con- 
structed, by which is meant the average amount of 
each of the chief food principles that keep an average 
muscle-worker in good condition, when doing aver- 
age work. 

Every one will admit that it is of great importance 



4 Applications to tJie Household. 

for the farmer to know in what proportion he shall 
lay in hay and other food for the winter feeding of 
his stock; the animals must thrive, but there must 
-be no waste by furnishing food in the wrong quanti- 
ties or proportions. 

For the housewife, the food question in its relation 
to her family can be stated in the very same words. 
It is important that she should economize, but her 
path will be full of pitfalls if she does not understand 
in what true economy consists. Most people with a 
real interest in this subject, have had at some period 
of their lives certain pet theories as to food. Per- 
haps they have been at one time convinced that most 
people ate too much, at another, that meat was the 
all strengthener, or they may have been afflicted 
with the vegetarian fad, and whatever their special 
views have been they have thought that they rested 
them upon facts. But surely they would never have 
pinned their faith to one-sided diets if they had 
rightly comprehended the main facts of nutrition. 
We believe that if these facts as at present interpreted, 
and the world's experience in applying them, can be 
put at the command of the housewife, she can use 
them to great profit. 

We have employed the term "food principles"; 
what do we mean by it ? Everyone knows what is 
meant by a food, as meat or bread, and everyone 
knows that the food offered us by our butchers and 
grocers comes from the animal and vegetable king- 
doms. The oxygen we breathe and the water we 
drink nature furnishes for us directly, so to speak, 
though unfortunately for many of us, and especially 



Food Principles. 5 

for young children, the former is not thought of as a 
food. Oxygen aside, it has been found by those who 
have studied the matter, that all foods contain one or 
more of five classes of constituents, called "nutritive 
ingredients" or "food principles." These five prin- 
ciples are: 

(1) Water. 

(2) Proteids. 

(3) Fats. 

(4) Carbohydrates. 

( 5 ) Salts or mineral constituents. 

WATBB. 

It is important to note that our bodies when full- 
grown are two-thirds water, and that our food con- 
tains from 1 to 94^ of it. Considering the scope of 
this essay, it must be left to take care of itself as a 
food. 

PEOTEIDS. 

A class of nearly allied bodies is included under 
this head. The whole class is sometimes called 
"Albumens." 

The housewife is familiar with proteids in such 
foods as the lean of meat, in eggs and cheese. These 
contain the principle in various proportions ; for 
example. 

Lean of meat has - - 15-31 ^ 

. Eggs in both -white and yolk - 12.5^ 

Fresh cows' milk on an average 3.4^ 

Cheese' - - 25-30 ^ 

Dried Codfish - - - 30 ^ 



6 Food Principles. 

Vegetables are more deficient in proteids though 
the grains and legumes contain much of it. 
Wheat flour has - - - 10 to 13 ^ 
Peas, beans and Lentils have 33.85 to 37.7^ 

In fresh vegetables we find only from ^ to 3^, 
excepting green peas and beans in which the proteids 
reach 5 to 6.5^. 

FATS. 

Fats are obtained from both the animal and veg- 
etable kingdoms. Those used by us in cookery come 
mostly from animals, and are known to the house- 
wife as butter, lard and tallow. Vegetable food as a 
rule, is very poor in fats, containing from to 3^ 
only. 

Some of the cereals, like corn and oats contain 
from 4 to 7^ of fats. 

CABBOHYDEATES. 

The bodies classed as "carbohydrates" are found 
mainly in vegetables. The housekeeper knows them 
as starches and sugars. 

Under the starches proper are included such 
things as the starches of grains and seeds, Iceland 
moss, gums and dextrin. 

Milk is one of the few animal products that has 
more than a very small quantity of carbohydrates. 
It contains on the average about 4.8^ of this prin- 
ciple ; — slightly more than of either proteids or fats. 

SALTS. 

The things that give hardness to our bones, like 



Functions of Food Principles. 7 

calcium phosphate, and the common salt with which 
we flavor our food, illustrate this class. 

FUNCTIONS OF FOOD PKINTCIPLES. 

To know in what proportion these food principles 
should be represented in our diet, we must inquire 
into the part played by each of them in the body. The 
first and the last principle may be dismissed briefly. 
The former, water, is the great medium which floats 
things through the body ; the latter, salts, are com- 
bined in various ways with the solids and fluids of 
our foods, and we shall not easily suffer from lack of 
them. 

The other three food principles (let us call them in 
the following pages the three great food principles), 
cannot be so summarily dealt with. We might say, 
briefly and dogmatically, that the proteids are "flesh 
foods," the fats are "heat foods," the carbohydrates 
"work foods." To be sure, experimenters are agreed 
on the main points, but the different schools are still 
at war on the final explanations and on many details, 
and it has become more and more evident that we 
cannot portion off the work of the body in this sim- 
ple style. Though each of the three great food prin- 
ciples can be said to have a favorite part which it 
plays better than any other, yet we find that like an 
actor of varied talents, it has more than one r61e in 
its repertoire. 

FUNCTION- OF PBOTEIDS. 

That this class is indispensable we have the best 
of proofs. It must be given us in one or another of its 



8 Function of Proteids. 

■ forms, for, even if we are not athletes, nearly one half 
of our body is made np of muscle which is one fifth 
proteid, and the nitrogen in this proteid can only be 
furnished by proteid again, since neither fats nor car- 
bohydrates contain any of it ; therefore in making up 
bills of fare, let us remember that growing and working 
proteid, yes, eyen idle proteid as Dr. Smith found, 
needs proteid, and that there is nothing in any of 
the other food principles that can entirely take its 
place. 

Though we think of proteid mostly as a great body 
builder and restorer, it can also to some extent fur- 
nish fat when it stands in a certain relation to the 
fats and carbohydrates of our food, and we are assured 
by experimenters that it also furnishes heat and mus- 
cle energy under certain conditions. 

In these last two actiyities, however, it is far ex- 
celled by fats and carbohydrates. We shall therefore 
think of it as the nitrogen-furnisher of our tissues, 
and also as the grand stimulant among foods, incit- 
ing the body, as it does, to burn up more of other 
kinds. 

Scientists, at one time, held the opinion that our 
muscle energy comes chiefly from proteids. This view 
has been abandoned, but many a working man still 
believes that meat is the only kind of food that is of 
any account; he thinks of fats and starches as quite 
unimportant comparatively. Now it has been proved 
over and over again, that we can combine meat with 
fats and vegetable food in such a proportion that it 
shall play only its main r61e, viz., that of building 
and restoring, while these latter furnish the heat and 



Function of Fats and Qarbohydrates. 9 

muscle energy needed. Proteid food is such a costly 
article that it will not do to put it at work which 
cheaper material can do even better. 

FUNCTION OF FATS. 

The fats also have more than one ofiBce in the body. 
They can be stored as body fat, or they can be burned 
and give off heat, and they may also serve as a source 
of muscular energy, in an indirect manner at least. 

FUNCTION OF CAEBOHYDRATES. 

The Carbohydrate principle furnishes fat to our 
tissues, and is a source of heat and muscle energy, 
indeed the chief source of muscle energy in all ordi- 
nary diets. 

FLATOKINGS. 

So far we have had chiefly in mind the real work- 
ing constituents of food, if we may so speak. But 
many things cannot be studied or classified in the 
above way; they must be looked at from another 
point of view. 

Thus, a pinch of pepper, a cup of coffee, a fine, 
juicy strawberry, — what of these? They may con- 
tain all five of the food-principles, but who cares for 
the proteid action or carbohydrate effect of his cup 
of good coffee at breakfast, or what interest for us 
has the heating effect of the volatile oil to which the 
strawberry owes a part of its delicious taste? 

Surely the economical housekeeper who would 
throw out of the list of necessaries all the things that 
tickle the palate, that rouse the sense of smell, that 



10 Flavorings. 

please the eye and stimulate our tired nerves, jnst 
because these things contain but little food, would 
make a graye mistake. She may know just what cuts 
of meat to buy, what vegetables are most healthful 
and economical, but if she does not understand how 
to "make the mouth water," her labor is largely lost. 
Especially if she has but little money, should she pay 
great attention to this subject, for it is the only way 
to induce the body to take up plain food with relish. 
The list of these spices, flavors, harmless drinks 
and the like, is a long one. Unfortunately, we have 
no comprehensive word that will include everything 
of the sort, from a sprig of parsley to a cup of coffee; 
the German calls them " Genuss-mittel " — " pleasure- 
giving things." 

PEOPORTIONS AND AMOUNTS OE FOOD PRINCIPLES. 

We have brought our discussion of the three great 
food principles to the point where we can enquire in 
what proportions and amounts these should be repre- 
sented in our diet. 

The standard daily dietary that is most frequently 
cited, and which, perhaps, best represents the food 
consumption of the average European workman in 
towns, is that proposed by Prof. Voit. This dietary 
was made upon the basis of a large number of ob- 
served cases. It demands for a man of average size, 
engaged in average manual labor, 

Proteids.* Pats. Carbohydrates. 

118 gms. 56 gms. 500 gms. 

Now it is the opinion of all competent judges, that 

*38. 34 grams. =1 oz. 



standard Dietaries. 11 

tit least one third of this proteid should come from 
the animal kingdom, and this one third, if given in 
the form of fresh beef, would be represented by 230 
grams of butcher's meat, calculated to consist of 
Bone and tendon, ... 18 gms. 

Fat, - - ... 21 " 

Lean, 191 " 

When we take whole populations into account, we 
find that little, if any, more meat than this falls to 
each person per day. Thus the average consumption 
per day for three great cities is given as follows; 
Berlin, ... 135 gms. per cap. 

New York, - 226 " " " 

London, - - - 274 " " " 

Of course these averages include children, but they 
also include great numbers of the well-to-do, who eat 
much more meat than their bodies need. 

We will add a few more examples of dietaries, 
some of which are used by the writer in making out 
the bills of fare given in this essay. 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 
gms. gms. gms. 

145 100 450 Proposed by Prof. Voit for 

^ j^^^ ^|. jjg^j.^ ■work. 



120 56 500 



Allowed to Oerman soldiers 
in garrison. 



-I Kfv 1 en K(\c\ Proposed by Prof. Atwater 

^°^ -^^" ^"" for American at hard work. 

10K -loK A tin By the same for American 

1^5 1^5 4:0U •'at moderate work. 

200 60 400 Proposed by Prof. Voit for 

a woman. 

uf\ KA Qon By the same for children 

^" ^" ^^" from 7 to 15 years. 



12 Standard Dietaries. 

We will give an instance of how much below these 
figures the amount consumed sometimes falls. 

Prof. Boehm found that a poor North German 
family, consisting of a man, wife and a child five 
years old, had in one week for their food : 

Potatoes, - - - - 41 lbs. 

Eye flour, ... 2^ lbs. 

Meat, - - - If lbs. 

Eice, - - - - i lb. 

Eye Bread, - - 13 lbs. 
A very little milk. 

Calculating the food principles contained in these 
amounts, we find that the three individuals daily 
consumed of: 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 

175.5 gms. 41 gms. 1251. gms. 

It needs no comment to show how insufficient is 
this dietary in amount, and how incorrect in pro- 
portion. 

We have selected Prof. Atwater's dietary for a man 
at moderate manual labor as the basis of our twelve 
bills of fare and have taken Voit's standard for women 
and children. 

Our climate is more trying and our people work 
faster, and we shall do well to allow more fat and meat 
to our working-man than the foreign dietaries provide. 
If our man is to get daily one-third of his proteid 
in the form of animal food, this would be represented 
by 8 ozs. of butcher's meat (without bone), by from 
5 to 5.8 ozs. cheese, or by 8 eggs. 



American Needs. 13 

We believe that it is better to go a little high rather 
than too low with proteid food. As a rule, people 
who eat enough porteids, and especially enough animal 
food, are vigorous and have what we call " stamina," 
and doctors incline to the belief that such people 
resist disease better because their blood and tissue are 
less watery than in the case of people who draw their 
proteids almost entirely from such vegetables as pota- 
toes. But many workingmen in America would be 
surprised to learn how well health and strength can 
be maintained on what is, after all, not such a very 
large amount of meat, provided the rest of the dietary 
contain? enough vegetable proteid and fat. 

PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS. 

It now remains for us to see whether the economist 
can get practical help from the foregoing facts about 
the character of foods and the use that is made of 
them in the body. 

We have seen that we cannot economize in the 
amount of our food beyond certain limits and yet re- 
main healthy and strong ; also that we must not 
greatly alter the relative proportions in which expe- 
rience has shown that these foods are best combined. 
The true field of household economy has, then, 
certain prescribed limits. 

Its scope lies, 1st. In furnishing a certain food 
principle in its cheap rather than its dear form; 
for example, the proteid of beef instead of that of 
chicken, fat of meat instead of butter. 3nd. Hav- 
ing bought foods wisely, in cooking them in such a 
manner as to bring out their full nutritive value; for 



14 Scope of the Economist. 

instance, making a roast juicy and delicious instead 
of dry and tasteless. 3d. In learning how to use 
every scrap of food to advantage, as in soup making, 
and 4th, if we add to these the art of so flavoring and 
varying as to make simple materials relish, we have 
covered the whole field of the household economist, 
so far as the food question is concerned. 

We hope she will find help in the following pages, 
for it will be part of our task in th-is essay to examine 
different articles of food as to their nutritive value, and 
to recommend such combinations and such methods of 
cooking as will make the utmost out of a certain sum 
of money. As to foods, we have in America a large 
range of choice; staple raw products cost less generally 
than they do in Europe and the laboring man here 
has somewhat more money to buy with. The anxious 
provider, who must feed many mouths on what seems 
an insufificient sum, may feel assured that he can, 
without doubt, learn to do better than he now does.- 
In this line we must not disdain to learn lessons 
wherever we can. 

There is an unfortunate prejudice among us against 
learning of foreign countries. The American work- 
man says indignantly that he does not want to learn 
how to live on "starvation wages." But the facts, 
viewed coolly, are just these: the inhabitants of older 
countries have learned some lessons that we too 
must soon learn whether we will or no, and to profit 
by these lessons before we are really obliged to, will 
in no way lower wages, it will simply help us to get 
more comfort and pleasure out of our money. 

Students of economy, political and domestic, find 



Lessons from Foreign Countries. 15 

no better school than the experience of older 
countries, and constantly draw lessons from their 
greater thrift and economy in living. Mrs. Helen 
Campbell found, among the poor sewing women of 
New York, that none were skillful in cooking their 
scanty food excepting only the German and Swiss 
women. All observing travelers unanimously give 
this testimony, — "If our American workman knew 
how to make as much of his large wage as the for- 
eigner does of his small one, he could live in luxury." 

But you ask, what are the special lessons to be 
learned of the foreign housewife? We answer, chiefly 
self-denial and saving. Do not give up in despair 
because you have a small income and resign yourself 
to living meanly, in a hand to mouth fashion. Dili- 
gent study of the question and resolute abstention from 
luxuries will solve the problem, if it can be solved. 

We indulge ourselves and our children too much 
in what tastes good, while all the time we know we have 
not money enough to buy necessaries. For instance, 
the consumption of sugar in America was in 1887, 56 
lbs. per head, in Germany hardly more than one third 
that amount. This means a larger consumption of 
sweetmeats than we can afford and at the same time 
be well fed otherwise. 

We seem, in general, to spend too much money in 
our country on food compared with what we use in 
other directions; one great trouble is that we do not 
know how to save every scrap of food and use it 
again in some form. For one thing, we have yet to 
learn the great art of soup making, — and it seems 
also, of soup eating. 



16 



Soups. 



The American housekeeper would say to me : " This 
is nothing new, for years we've been hearing about 
soups. We don't like soups!" I only aSk, " have you 
tried them for a considerable length of time, so that 
you have become skilled in making them, and your 
family used to their taste?" One fact alone ought 
to insure for them a good trial; that at least three 
nations, the French, German and Italian, make daily 
use of them and have for generations. To take part 
of our food in this form is an absolute necessity if we 
are to do the best possible with a certain amount of 
money. 

PEACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 

The practical difficulties in the way of improve- 
ment in household cookery are not small. As cook, 
we have the wife and mother, who has too little time 
for this very important branch of household work; 
she has had, perhaps, no good training in the art 
of cookery (for it is an art), and besides, her 
kitchen and kitchen utensils are not at all what 
they should be. Indeed, the qualifications for a given 
task could not well be further from the ideal. 

In Europe families of small means have many 
helps unknown to us. In the first place, bread is 
never baked at home, the bakers' bread being both 
excellent and cheap. It would seem that among us, 
bakers' bread must shortly improve in quality and 
decrease in price ; either the profits must be too 
large, or .the business not well managed. For 
instance, in those parts of Germany where white 
bread is eaten as a staple, it costs a trifle over 3 



The Foreign Housekeeper. 17 

cents a pound, while flour of average quality costs 
about the same. In contrast with this, compare the 
prices of bread and flour in our own country where 
in no large city is bread quoted at less than 7 cents, 
while flour costs 3 cents. That is, bread costs in Ger- 
many about the same as flour and in America more 
than twice as much; and yet the German baker is no- 
tably a prosperous person ! 

The foreign housekeeper has still further help from 
the baker. If she makes a cake or pie, she sends it 
out to be baked, and pays from one to two cents 
(the fuel would have cost more); joints of meat and 
mixed dishes are also sent to be baked for the same 
price; and before any bakeshop in a German city, at 
noon on Sunday, can be seen a. line of servant girls, 
each in turn receiving a steaming dish as it is taken 
from the oven. The soup kitchens ( Volks Euchen ) 
of various grades are also a great help. The writer 
has repeatedly had brought from one of them an excel- 
lent meat broth (1 pt. for 2 cents), and good cooked 
vegetables are furnished for a price less than they 
could be cooked for at home, if one took any account 
of time and fire. 

But such helps are not yet to any great extent 
available to the American woman; she must wrestle 
with her own problem at home and solve it as best 
she can. 

a 



THE KITOHEK 



The kitchen of a woman of average means is not 
the ideal kitchen. It is perhaps too small or not 
light enough, or it may have still more serious defects, 
as a bad drain. We must take it as it is, however, 
requiring only that it contain what is necessary to 
the end we have in view, — plain cooking for a fam- 
ily of six. 

In the cheaper city dwellings the 

Size of Kitchen. , ., , . n i -n j- j 

kitchen, is small, too small lor good 
ventilation, and for the heavier kinds of work as 
washing; but for cooking, a very small kitchen can 
be so arranged as to answer every purpose. 

Any one who has seen a ship's kitchen can under- 
stand this. The cook as he stands before his range 
is within reach of all his stores, for rows of drawers 
and shelves literally line the walls from floor to ceil- 
ing, little tables for pastry or cake making are 
drawn out of the wall and pushed in again when not 
wanted, and every inch of floor and wall space is used 
to the best advantage. This cook would tell you that 
he did not want a larger kitchen ; he would only lose 
time running about in it. 

Begin to utilize the wall space. If 
Arrangement. ? , , t , 

you have not yet as many shelves as 

the walls will accommodate, put up more, and espe- 

18 



Arrangemeni of Kitchen. 19 

cially about and above the stove, so that as you stand 
at your cooking you can reach salt, pepper and every 
other flavor that can be used in a soup or stew; cook- 
ing spoons and forks and knives, potlids and holders 
— all these should be at your hand. Let a carpenter 
fasten into the mortared wall strips of wood that will 
hold nails and a few shelves, and if the stove is in a 
niche with wall on two or even three sides of it, all 
the better. On these nails should hang nearly every 
implement used in cooking, and on the shelves should 
be found all spices and flavors; farther back can be 
placed what is more seldom used. If there are no 
drawers, never mind, use close tin boxes for as many 
things as you can; if no closed cupboard for your 
dishes, hang a curtain before the open shelves. 

The nearer your sink is to the stove the better, 
that is the path your feet must oftenest travel. 
There must be a table of some sort very near the 
stove; if it is a movable one, all the better, or it 
may be a broad shelf with a very strong and safe 
hinged support under it, letting down when not in 
use. 

I take for granted that the main part of your work 
is to be done on this stove and table, and that a well 
stocked pantry, fitted out for the making of pastry 
and cake and elaborate dishes, is not within your reach 
any more than the time for making such. 

The utensils you need are few, but 
these few you must have. Consider 
the value of the food materials that you use; a few 
burns on an old sauce pan will quite buy a new one. 
We will speak only of the most important and abso- 
lutely necessary utensils. 



20 Utensils. 

First, do not use tin ; it is cheap, but coal is not, 
~and you will waste a great deal of coal in trying to 
cook in tin. Brass and copper cooking vessels are to 
be ayoided by one who must economize, as they are 
expensive and require too much care to keep them 
free from the poisonous verdigris. 

Of chief importance among your utensils is a flat 
bottomed iron pot with close fitting iron lid. Get 
the smoothest and best, even if it cost double. In 
this you will roast meat with little fire, cook vege- 
tables, all but peas and beans, cook anything indeed 
that is not acid. Have two of these, if you can, of 
different sizes. Next, an iron frying pan, also of 
the smoothest wrought iron and light; this too 
should have a close fitting cover. Some people con- 
sider iron utensils heavy and old fashioned, but where 
economy is an object, no other ware is so good and 
satisfactory. The blue or grey enamelled ware is very 
nice but will not stand great heat and easily chips 
and cracks, but you should have one kettle of this 
ware as it is valuable for cooking fruit and anything 
acid. You must have a wire gridiron for toasting 
bread and broiling meat ; this you should use for 
many things which you now cook in the frying pan. 
The tea-kettle is a matter of course, and a griddle. 
There is one other utensil not as common, but which 
deserves to be, viz., a steamer; a simple pot with 
perforated bottom which will fit tightly into the top 
of the iron pot, and have a very tightly fitting cover. 
Its use win be discussed later. 

You can hardly do without a number of earthen 
jugs, glazed with lead-free enamel, especially for 



Fuel. 21 

cooking and holding milk. Get also a number of 
wooden spoons; they are cheap and clean, and of con- 
venient shape for stirring. The old fashioned pud- 
ding stick of the Yankee kitchen is the earliest form 
among us, and many people know no other. 

A good stove is of first importance in a 
kitchen, but fortunately good stoves have 
become common. A graver question, however, is the 
cost of fuel to be burned in them. Of course coal 
must be the stand-by, and when the stove is heated 
up as on ironing and baking days, care can be taken 
to use the fire to its fullest capacity; in winter, 
dishes can be cooked ahead for several days. 

To cook a single dish or for boiling a tea- 
kettle a coal oil stove is a saving; it is also 
invaluable for keeping a pot at a simmering heat, — a 
thing very difficult to accomplish on a stove. 

For the same purpose, and for any steady 

Charcoal • . 

cooking, and above all for broiling meat, every 
housekeeper ought to have appliances for burning 
charcoal; it only needs a grating with a rim 3 or 3 
inches high, to let down into the stove hole (a sort of 
deep spider with a grated bottom). For such pur- 
poses, a bushel of hard wood charcoal costing 15 or 
20 cents would last a long time. Charcoal is almost 
the only fuel used in Paris for cooking; indeed, 
throughout France and in "Western Germany it is in 
very common use. 

For "Cooking Safe" as a saver of 

" Cooking Safe." . , , . 

fuel, see page 44. 



PEOTEID-COI^TAIi:«fIIi^G FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We hare already in the Introduction called atten- 
tion to the importance of this food principle. It is 
well for us to Ijear in mind that there are three great 
classes of Proteids, Albumens proper. Caseins, and 
and Fibrins, and that in both plants and animals are 
found representatives of these three classes. Thus, 
in plant juices and in eggs we have things belonging 
to the Albumen class; in the curd of sour milk and 
in the legumine of the pod-covered plants we have 
examples of caseins; and in the gluten of grains and 
in the clot whipped out of blood we have examples 
of fibrins. 

ANIMAL FOODS. 

Our animal foods contain some other things that 
the housewife ranks with proteids and we have a few 
words to say about one of them, viz., gelatine, that 
nitrogenous substance boiled out of bones and car- 
tilage. 

In the history of foods this gelatine, 

Gelatine, Hist, of ,., i , i i -, ■, 

like meat extract, has played a great 
part. Before the real functions of the food princi- 
ples were understood it was thought that what could 
be extracted by water from a piece of meat comprised 
all in it that was of value to the body; and so it hap- 

23 



Gelatine. 23 

pened that for more than a hundred years after Papin 
had discovered the method of extracting all the gel- 
atine out of bones (which he did by the aid of that 
contrivance still known in kitchens as the "Papin 
Soup Digester ") gelatine was considered to be one of 
the most, if not the most nourishing constituent of 
meats. In the last decade of the 18th century, and 
in the early part of this the French made great use 
of gelatine under the impression that it was a proteid 
because it yielded nitrogen to the chemist. Improved 
methods of extracting it were invented, and so gen- 
eral did its use become, especially in the public insti- 
tutions of Paris, that from 1839-38, two and three 
quarters million portions of bone-gelatine soup were 
dealt out to the inmates of a single hospital. But in 
spite of the opinions of eminent scientists that gela- 
tine soups and gelatine tablets were a perfect substi- 
tute for proteids, their consumption decreased; physi- 
cians again took hold of the subject, and by the 
middle of the century opinion had so changed that 
nearly all, if not all, food value was denied to them. 
Modern experimentation based on more rational meth- 
ods has put gelatine in its right place. It is a food, just 
as much so as is fat, but like fat it cannot play the 
r61e of proteid although a certain amount taken with 
fats and carbohydrates will enable the body to get 
along with a little less proteid. It is even said by 
Prof. Voit to excel fat in its ability to do half duty 
for proteid material. 

We have thought it well to speak of this because 
of a sort of superstitious regard in the kitchen for 
" stock," a survival, one would think, of Papin's time. 



34 Extractives. 

A good German housewife was wont to discourse to 
the writer on the economical virtues of a certain 
"Prau Doctor" who "always boiled her bones three 
times " and dwellers in many a household have had 
their nostrils assailed by the smell of glue, during 
the sixth hour of bone boiling. 

But if the importance of gelatine was .and is still 
exaggerated, this is still more true of the other parts 
of meat that can be extracted by water. 
Sol. Albumen and We have Seen that hot water coag- 

Extractivea. ulates proteid, and once coagulated, 
ft will not dissolve in water, and for this reason the 
soup generally contains of this valuable principle only 
the soluble albumen which rose as scum. If the cook 
has skimmed this off, the soup which she calls strong 
is strong with flavors rather than with nutritive princi- 
ples. 

To show how very little real food a good tasting 
meat soup may contain, we will give an analysis made 
by Prof. Konig. 

He took 1 lb. of beef and about 6^ 
oz. of veal bones, and treated them, he 
says, as is usually done in the kitchen to get a pint 
of good strong soup or bouillon. This contained 

Proteids, Pat, Extractives, Salts. 

1.19^ 1.48^ 1.83^ .33^ 

But where are the albumens that were in the meat 
to begin with ? Many of them are still there in that 
stringy, sodden mass, the "soup meat," which the 
cook tells us contains no further value. It consists 
of cooked connective tissue and albumen: now these 



Konig's Analysis of Soup. 35 

are foods and they must be rescued from the garbage 
barrel, for with the help of the chopping knife and 
the herb bag we can make them still do proteid duty 
in our bodies. 

Real importance If we do not Overvalue either the 
of Soup. gelatine or the flavoring matters in our 
meat soups, nor throw away the meat out of which 
they are made, we shall begin to make soups on the 
right basis, that is an understanding of the real value 
of the materials we are working with, and we shall use 
meat for our soups less often than we now do perhaps, 
considering its high price and our greater need of it 
cooked in other ways. Soups should not be regarded 
as a luxury, neither as the last resort of poverty, but 
as a necessary part of a dinner, just as they are now 
used by all classes in Europe; but they need not be 
made of good cuts of meat, nor indeed, of meat at all. 
Proteid as we ^^ '"^iH ^^^ direct our attention to 

buy it. the proteid as we buy it. 

We cannot here take up the chemical composition 
and exact nutritive value of every kind of meat to be 
bought at the butcher's stall, the fish market and the 
poultry stand. But we must note a few points of 
importance. 

We know that butchers' meat con- 
u c era mea . ^^^^^ from 50j^ to 78^ of water, accord- 
ing to the quality of the piece and the kind of animal. 
Most people in buying meat think first of the 4:ed 
part ; they may know that it is advantageous to buy 
meat that is streaked with fat, but they hardly realize 
how wise it is to do so. As a rule, fat takes the place 
of water. Let us consult tables of analyses for the 
3 



26 Analysis of Meats. 

amounts of water, proteids and nitrogenous extrac- 
tiTes, fats and salts contained in lean pieces and in 
pieces streaked with fat. In Prof. Konig's valuable 
treatise on Foods we find such analyses, carefully col- 
lected and sifted out of a large amount of material; 
Prof. KHnig's An- samples of neck, tenderloin, shoul- 
aiyses of Meat. der, hind-quarter and so on, just as 
bought at the butchers', were analyzed after being 
freed from adherent lump fat, and the average com- 
position of all the different cuts was as follows: — 

Fat and lean ox ^^^g, Kitrogenous j, 

compared. Substances 

Jo ^ ^ 

Froma very fat ox ... 55.43 17.19 26.38 
Prom a medium fat ox 73.25 30.91 5.19 

From a lean ox 76.71 30.78 1.50 

These tables illustrate how wise it is to buy meat 
from a very fat animal. They show that a pound of 
meat from a fat ox may have more than 30^ less 
water than a corresponding piece from a lean one; of 
course such a piece may contain from 3 to 4^ less 
proteid, but to compensate for this, it will have 25^ 
more fat. 

Let us give another table which illustrates that 
pieces like tenderloin are not the richest in proteids 
and fats, though they do have the finest flavor. It 
may help to console those whose purses do not allow 
them to buy these expensive cuts. 



Different Cuts Compared. 27 

Dif.partofox ^^t^r Nitrogenous j, 

compared buostaaces 

% % % 

Neck 73.5 19.5 5.8 

Shoulder -.. 50.5 14.5 34. 

Tenderloin... ..63.4 18.8 16.7 

Hind-quarter 55.05 30.81 23.32 

In this case the difference between shoulder and 
tenderloin as to the amount of water contained in 
each is striking. In the case of medium fat and lean 
animals, poor and good pieces approach each other 
more nearly in composition. 

We regret that the scope of this essay will not allow 
us to give drawings and full illustrations of the dif- 
ferent parts of an animal, with advice in detail as to 
what to buy. We are glad to mention in this connec- 
tion a former prize essay — "Healthy Homes and 
Foods for the Working Classes" — which gives much 
information needed by the housekeeper as to the 
qualities and comparative value of the meat from dif- 
ferent animals, of milk and milk products. 
Some meats com- Of butchers' meat beef must always 
iaxed. be considered the most economical, its 
choice being governed by facts just stated. Pat mut- 
ton also ranks high. 

Porlc. Say what we may against 
pork, it is a most valuable kind of 
meat, especially for the poor man, and the laws gov- 
erning its slaughter and sale should be so stringent 
as to protect him. The great importance of salt pork 
and bacon we have considered under "Fats." 

It is of little use to give rules about buying this 
meat ; we must generally take what the butcher fur- 



38 Fish. 

nishes, but at least we can cook it well, never eating 
it raw even when well dried and smoked. 

Fish. Prom the standpoint of the 
economist fish is worthy of especial 
mention; nature does the feeding, we have only to 
pay for the catching. In the season when it is best 
and cheapest, fresh fish should be used freely. We 
have only to remind the housewife that she loses i to 
\ of the weight of a fish in bones and head. 
Salted and smoked Salted and smoked fish is of great 
flsi>- importance as food, and not alone for 

people living on the sea-coast. Salted cod contains, 
according to Konig's tables, 30^ of Proteids, and this 
fact, together with its low price, fully justifies its 
popularity with all economical people. 

Other salted and preserved fish, as for instance, the 
herring, give variety in the diet of many a poor family. 

LIVER, HEART, ETC. 

Internal Organs. Qf the internal organs of animals gen- 
erally considered eatable, we really appreciate only the 
liver. The lungs, brains, kidneys, heart, and the 
stomach prepared as tripe, are good food and they are 
often sold very cheap in country towns. Tlie head of 
most animals, as of the calf, is excellent for soups and 
other dishes, and in the country it is often given away. 

EGGS. 

Eggs compared To get an idea of the comparative 

with meats as i » » i ■, , 

a food. value of eggs as a lood let us compare 
them with medium fat beef. 

Water Proteids Fat 

% % % 

Medium fat beef has.- 73.5 31. 5.5 

Eggs have 74.5 13.5 13. 



Eggs. 29 

We see that while the water is nearly the same in 
both, the meat has the advantage in proteids and the 
eggs the advantage in fat, this fat, moreover, being 
of very fine quality. 

Take eggs at their cheapest, as in April when they 
often sell at 15 cents a dozen, that would be 12^ cents 
a pound, 10 eggs of average -size weighing a pound. 
They could then be considered cheaper than the high- 
est priced cuts of meat, bat still much dearer than 
the cheaper parts, flank, neck and brisket, at 8 cents. 
So that even at this low price, they are somewhat of 
a luxury to the man who must get his proteid and fat 
in their cheapest form. 

And when we consider that only for a short time 
in the year is the price so low, — eggs being on an 
average quoted at 25. to 30 cents, the showing for them 
as a proteid rival of meat is poor indeed. Except in 
the Spring the economically inclined must be sparing 
of their use even in dessert dishes. When house- 
keepers say, as I have heard them, that eggs at 25 
cents a dozen are cheaper than meat, they must be 
speaking in comparison with very high priced meats. 

CHEESE. 

Cheese (its food In America, cheese is regarded more 
value.) g^g ^ luxury than as a staple article of 

food, and yet 1 lb. of cheese is equal in food value to 
more than 2 lbs. of meat, it being very rich in both 
fat and proteids. Considering this, its price is very 
low and it ought to be a treasure to the poor man 
and do good service in replacing sometimes the more 
expensive meat. 



30 Food Value of Cheese. 

Use of cheese Its food Value is fully recognized 

abroad. abroad. For the Swiss peasant it is a 
staple second only to bread, while the use of it in 
Italy and in G-ermany is extensive. The writer once 
spent several weeks in the house of a large farmer on 
the slope of Mt. Pilatus in Switzerland, and observed 
daily the food given to the harvesters; the luncheon 
sent twice a day to the fields consisted of a quarter 
section of the grayish skim cheese, accompanied with 
bread. I was told that the poor people in the region 
ate scarcely any meat, using cheese in its stead. 

The writer has also observed the use of cheese in 
Germany. Every locality has its special variety of 
the soft kind made of sour milk, and great amounts 
of the Swiss, both skim and full milk, cheese are con- 
sumed. It is generally eaten uncooked, but also as an 
addition to cooked food in a great variety of dishes. 
Digestibility of There Is no doubt of the food value of 
cheese. cheese, but there does seem to be some 

question as to its digestibility. When we come to 
inquire into this point, we find that thorough experi- 
ments have been made by German scientists; Dr. 
Eiibner, a pupil of Voit, gives the result of experi- 
ments on himself. He found that he could not con- 
sume much of it alone, but with milk he took easily 
200 grams, or nearly -J lb., and only when he took as 
high as 517 grams or over a pound daily, was it less 
completely digested than meat. Prof. Konig says, 
that in the amounts in which it is generally eaten, 
125 to 250 grams daily (i to ■!■ lb.), it is as well digest- 
ed as meat or eggs. The extensive use of it abroad 
would seem to be some guarantee for the digestibility 
of the foreign varieties at least. 



Digestihitity of CJieese. 31 

American cheeses have in general a sharper flavor 
than the foreign, still it is probable that well mixed 
with other food, enough could be taken many a time, 
to give a man his needed daily quantity of animal 
proteid, — between six and seven ounces, — and this is 
a matter of great importance from an economical point 
of view. 



METHODS OF COOKIl^G MEAT. 



Why cook. And first— why do we cook it at all? 

In the animal as well as in the vegetable world some 
foods are all ready for our digestion, as milk. Eaw 
eggs too, are perfectly digestible and are often given 
to invalids. We hear, of "Raw meat cures," and 
it has been found that tender and juicy raw meat, if 
chopped fine to break the connective tissue, is well 
digested. 

But raw meat does not taste good to most of us, 
while the delicious flavor and odor of a broiled steak 
make it very acceptable to the palate, and we must 
believe to the stomach also. "We "bring out the 
flavor," as we say, by cooking; what else do we do? 
Let us examine for a moment a piece of meat with 
structure of reference to the effect heat has upon it, 

meat. The red part is made up of, first, very 

tiny sausage-like bags, or muscle fibres as they are 
called, and in these is contained the precious proteid 
matter, flavors and salts all mixed together with 
water into a sort of jelly; second, these muscle fibres 
are bound together by strands of connective tissue, 
as that white stringy mass is called, in which the fat 
and blood vessels are lodged; this is also of food 
value, but inferior to the fibres. Third, dissolved 
in the juices floating between the fibres and strands, 

33 



Examination of Meat Fibre. 33 

there is also a proteid called soluble albumen. The 
little bags of proteid, when we can get at them, are 
as digestible in our stomachs as is the white of egg, 
though, like the egg again, their flavor is improved by 
slight cooking. But, as we have seen, they are 
imprisoned in the connective tissue, somewhat, we 
may say, as are the starch grains of the potato in the 
cellulose. 
Softening conneo- This Connective tissue we can soft- 

tive tissue, en by heat, thereby turning it into 
a sort of gelatine, but unfortunately, unless the meat 
is very tender, this requires a longer application of 
heat than is needed to cook the delicate albumen all 
full of flavors too easily lost. To soften the connect- 
ive tissue without overcooking the albumen, is one 
of the problems of meat cookery. 

The next question is, how do our methods of cook- 
ing meet these requirements? 

COOKIJTG MEAT IK WATEE. 

1st. Method. p^t a piecc of lean meat into cold 
water, heat it very slowly and watch the effect. The 
water becomes slightly red, then cloudy, and as the 
heat increases, yellowish in color, and finally it clears, 
sending a scum to the surface. If we examine this 
scum, we find that the water has soaked out much 
soluble albumen and a large proportion of the salts 
of the meat as well as other substantives called extrac- 
tives; and now the odor of the boiling meat begins to 
fill the kitchen. The longer and slower the warming 
process, the more of all these things we shall extract, 
and the meat when taken out will be in just that 
proportion poor. 



34 First Method of Cooking Meat. 

Soup making. This is the process known as soup 

making, — very simple, if we care noth- 
ing for the piece of meat but to soak out of it all the 
food and flavors possible. After some hours of cook- 
ing we find it shrunken, gray and tasteless. A dog 
if fed on that alone could not live many days. How- 
ever, as we have before said, we are not to conclude, 
that it contains no more nutriment, but the stomach 
rejects it now that it is separated from all the flavoring 
matters. 

2nd Method. Kow put a piece of meat into 

boiling water and continue the boiling. The sur- 
face of the meat suddenly whitens and a little 
scum rises on the water, though very little compared 
with what we saw in the former method. We have 
coagulated the albumen contained in all the little 
cells in the surface of the meat, and the soluble albu- 
men, flavoring matters and salts cannot get out; the 
sealing up is not quite perfect, enough escaping into 
the water to make it a weak soup, but it is a good meth- 
od of cooking a large piece if properly completed from 
this point. But if we go on boiling our meat, that is, 
keeping the temperature at 212°, we shall overcook 
the albumen in the outer layers before that in the 
center is coagulated. By overcooking, we mean 
making it horny and flavorless, as we do the white of 
an egg if we cook it in the old-fashioned way, by 
dropping into boiling water and keeping it at that 
heat. Having seared the outside of the meat to keep 
the juices in, we must lower the temperature. The 
albumen coagulates at between 160° and 170°, but 
the water in the kettle may be a little above this, as 



Second Method of Cooking Meat. '^^ 

it must constantly transfer heat to the interior 
of the meat. The general rule is that it should 
"bubble" or "simmer" only, and if the cook can do 
no better she must follow these indications. That 
the true temperature for cooking meat is below the 
boiling point, many an intelligent housekeeper knows, 
but how is she to know when the water is at 170°? 
Here we come upon the weakest point in household 
cookery ; rarious degrees of heat have different effects 
on the foods we cook, but of only one temperature is 
the housekeeper certain — that of boiling water. 

For the use of the thermometer and the heat saver 
see pages 43 and 44. 

But to return ; is there no way of cooking that will 
keep in the meat all these flavors- and salts and albu- 
mens, just as nature mixed them ? Yes, there are 
three ways, — frying in fat, baking in an oven, and 
broiling over coals. 

We will examine the first. If we 

ying in a . pj^j^ge a thiu piece of meat, as a cut- 
let coated with egg and breadcrumbs, into boiling 
fat, the albumen in the surface or rather in that of 
the egg surrounding it is coagulated as in boiling, 
but this time the outer rind preserves the juices still 
better because the fat will not mix with them as will 
water. Everyone knows how an oyster cooked in 
this way retains its juices. 

When we bake a piece of meat in the 

a ngmea. Qygjj^ -^^g start in the same way; we 

sear the outside in fat, turning the roast about in a 

small quantity of fat made hot in a kettle; we then 

transfer it, still in the kettle or pan, to a hot oven 



36 Baking Meat. 

where the process of cooking is completed, but at 
short intervals we moisten the surface with the fat in 
the pan. If we did not baste the roast, we would 
find a thick layer of grey, tasteless meat inside the 
outer brown crust, and indeed the whole piece would 
dry long before the center of our roast had reached 
the coagulating point; we baste, in order to keep 
in the juices which, as we know, will not mix with 
the fat, and also that only a mild degree of heat, not 
exceeding the coagulating point of proteids, may be 
transmitted to the interior. In the intervals of our 
basting, some water is driven out of the meat and 
evaporated into steam, and the high heat of the oven 
expends itself in evaporating this, in heating the 
basting fat, and perhaps (if it reach so high a tem- 
perature ) in decomposing part of it, and in changing 
the chemical character of small quantities of extrac- 
tives, thus making the meat "tasty," and so it hap- 
pens that only a mild degree of heat is passed into 
the center of the piece. "We would hardly believe 
that the inside of a roast, with its light pink color, 
registers only 160° by the thermometer, yet this can 
be proved by anyone with a long chemist's thermom- 
eter. 

Although some of the water of our meat has evap- 
orated, the extractives and salts are retained to a 
larger extent than in boiling, as we shall see by the 
table given later. 

In broiling, the principle applied is 

exactly the same as m baking, the 

cooking being done by the medium of heated air. 

The dry heat of the coals affects the outer layer of 



Broiling Meat. 37 

the meat, as does the hot air of the oven. In both 
these methods, just as in boiling, we try to hold 
the temperature of our cooking medium just high 
enough to keep the heat traveling toward the in- 
terior of the meat. 

We have now learned to cook the albumen enough 
and not too much and to keep the flavors of our meat; 
what about the connective tissue, and how has that 
fared with our different modes of cooking? 

If our meat is cut from the tenderer 

Tender meat. j. j. • i i- j.i • i j. n 

parts of an animal of the right age, well 

fed and fattened, and if it has been kept long enough 

after killing, the connective tissue will soften into 

eatable condition in the length of time required to 

cook the albumen by the methods described. Such 

meat, so cooked, will always be tender and full of 

flavor. 

But if the meat is cut from the 

Toug-hmeat. . i, . j. u -n 

tougher parts, or from an old or ill- 
fattened animal, or cooked too soon after killing, the 
connective tissue will not soften in that time ; we 
must continue the application of heat till this tissue 
softens. 

Methods com- Therefore, what method of cooking 
pared: 1st, as ^^ s\iaM use, depends on the quality of 

to quality of , m • • n 

meat. the meat we have. Trimmings and 

tough portions we will make into soup, expecting to 
chop the tasteless meat next day and add other flavors 
to make it palatable. Somewhat better pieces, but 
still requiring long cooking to soften the connective 
tissue, may be made into a stew or ragout; or if the 
piece is large and compact, boiled in water; but meat 



38 Methods Compared. 

that is tender and juicy .(and for improving tough 

meat see page 45 ) should be boiled, baked or broiled, 

choosing oftenest the last two methods, because of 

the more perfect retention of the juices and the fine 

flavor given to the outer layer. 

We are told that baking or broiling 
2d, as to economy. j_ i- i j; i • j. 

is a very wasteful way of cookmg meat ; 

that if we would be truly economical we would always 
boil or stew, using our meat or its juices to flavor 
vegetables. Prom this we must dissent for it would 
condemn us to such a monotony as would be unen- 
durable even to the poor. Better sometimes a 
smaller piece of broiled or baked meat with its deli- 
cious and stimulating flavor, and make our soup of 
vegetables and season it with herbs. Besides, accord- 
ing to the scientists, baking and broiling are not 
wasteful methods. I quote froni a table of Prof. 
Konig's, wherein are given the results of analysis of 
beef raw, after boiling and after "braten." Eaw, it 
contained .86^ extractives (nitrogenous bodies most- 
ly; very important as giving the stimulating smell 

and taste) and 1.23^ salts. 

Extractives Salts 

Raw 86^ 1.33^ 

After boiling... 40^ 1.15^ 

After "braten" .73^ 1.45^ 

The advantage is seen to be in favor of " braten " 
both in regard to extractives and salts. The loss of 
water was nearly the same in both cases. As for the 
fat lost in broiling a beef steak, that is indeed a loss, 
but one to be made up in some measure by the smaller 
quantity of fuel necessary to cook the meat. The 



Soup Making. 39 

loss of this fat need not be made so much of, until we 
have learned to do better in many other still more 
important directions. 

The philosophy of cooking meat according to the 
different methods has been treated, and we will now 
give a few additional directions as to carrying out 
these methods. 

SOUP MAKING. 

Materials for Soup Lean meat of any sort, beef best; 
making. fresh, better than that long kept; 

bones of next value, especially the spongy rib bones 
and vertebrae. Saw and chop the bones into little 
pieces, — cut the meat small. Soft water is better 
than hard. 
Method of Keep a kettle, if possible, for this 

inaM^K- purpose alone, and add to it all bits of 

meat and bones as they accumulate. Put the meat 
into cold water, let it stand some hours if possible, 
heat very gradually and keep simmering. Two hours 
or less brings out all the flavors of the meat, but a 
much longer time is necessary to get all the nutri- 
ment from the bones. 

Do not remove the scum; it contains 

kimniing. ^^^ albumen of the soup, and nothing 

objectionable if the meat was well cleaned. 

An hour before the soup is served add flavors; 
onions and carrots are the best, celery, summer sa- 
vory, and parsley next. Use others, as cloves, nut- 
meg, bay leaf, etc., only occasionally. Add salt and 
pepper just before serving. 
When done, strain and skim off all fat (better if 



40 Boiling Meat. 

left to stand till next day, the fat removed and the 
soup simply rewarmed), and make such additions as 
you wish. 

[We prefer our soups with the fat removed, but 
the laboring people of Europe with their hardy stom- 
achs find a soup much better if covered with "eyes."] 

These rules apply to all meat soups. Mutton 
makes a strong and nutritious soup, veal a delicate 
soup. An excellent soup is made from a calf's head. 

BOILING. 

Put the meat into boiling water, bring 

To boil meat. . , , . , , ., -■ , „ 

quickly again to a boil and keep so for 
10 minutes, then lower the temperature (as see page 
35), and so keep it till the meat in the center has 
reached 160°-170°, or has changed in color from 
bluish to red, our usual test. For use of the " Cook- 
ing Safe" for this purpose, see page 44. Braising, 
"a la mode", kettle roasts, &c., are but modifications 
of this method. 

To make meat This is a combination of soup mak- 
stewB. ing and boiling. Use inferior parts, 

cut in pieces and cook, at 170° if possible, till tender. 
Half an hour before serving, season in any way you 
wish. See page 47. 

FfiTING TS FAT. 

How to prepare Lard if uscd for this purpose should 
fry meat. be tried out at home, but beef fat is 

cheaper and if nicely prepared no one can object to 
the taste. 



Frying in Fat. 41 

Cut the fresh suet in pieces, and cover with cold 
water; let it stand a day, changing the water once in 
the time. This takes out the peculiar tallowy taste. 
Now put it in an iron kettle, with a half teacup of . 
milk to each pound of suet, and let it cook very 
slowly till the fat is clear, and light brown in color, 
and till the sound of the cooking has ceased. The 
pieces may be loosened from the bottom with a spoon, 
but it is not to be stirred; if it burns the taste is 
ruined. Now let it stand and partly cool, then pour 
off into cups to become cold; it smells as sweet as 
butter and can in many cases be used instead of it. 
The fat left still in the pieces may be pressed out for 
less particular uses. 

Any clean fat, even mutton, has its uses in cookery, 
and should be tried out and kept nicely. 
Oils for use in There are oils now sold which but 
frying'. for prejudice we would always use. 

Pure cotton seed oil is a fine oil with a delicate flavor; 
rape seed oil, which is used extensively abroad for 
this purpose, is also a pure vegetable oil, but some- 
what rank in flavor. It is treated thus: a raw pota- 
to is cut up and put into the kettle, heating with the 
oil and cooking till it is brown, it is then taken out 
and the oil used like lard. The potato has absorbed 
the rank flavor. 

Thin pieces of meat, like cutlets and chops, are 
coated with beaten egg and bread crumbs and cooked 
in boiling fat for 5-10 minutes, according to the kind 
of meat. 

Make some beef fat hot in an iron pan 

To bake meat. ^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ p^^. ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ -^^ 
4 



43 - Baking Meat. 

and with a fork stuck into the/a^ part, turn it rapidly 
till it is on all sides a fine brown, then put it into a hot 
oTen (about 340° F. ), elevating it above the pan on a 
meat rack, or a few iron rods. Now comes the pro- 
cess called basting; in five minutes or less 
™^' you will find that the top of the meat 

has dried, and you must now dip, with a spoon, the 
hot fat from the pan over the top. Do this every few 
minutes adding no water to the j)an; you will find 
your meat well cooked in from 12-15 minutes to the 
pound. It is done when it has lost, in the middle, 
the blue color, and become a fine red. Only salt and 
pepper should be used to season such a roast, and 
must be added when the meat is half done; if earlier, 
it toughens the fibres. 

But when fuel is expensive, or in 

To broil meat. , i i j^ • 

summer when a hot tire is a nuisance, 
the perfectly cooked meat can also be obtained by 
broiling; the management of the fire is the only 
trouble. We are told that a beefsteak for broiling 
should be cut f of an inch thick, and put over a hot 
fire of coal or charcoal; quite right, but when it has 
browned quickly, as it should, and been turned and 
browned on the other side, it yet remains raw in the 
middle and if left longer, the surface burns. This is 
the experience of the novice, who has yet to learn 
two things; first, that immediately after the first 
browning, the fire must decrease in heat, or the meat 
be brought further away, so that the steak may cook 
10-13 minutes without burning — less time will not 
cook it nicely in the middle; and second, that like 
baked meat, the surface must be kept moist with hot 



Broiliiig Meat. 43 

fat. Before your steak is put oyer (unless it be 

very well streaked with fat), coTsr both sides with 

melted suet, and afterwards, as it dries, spread on 

a little butter or beef fat. Have ready in a hot 

platter a few spoonsful of water in which the bones 

cut from the steak have been boiling, also salt and 

pepper. When the steak is done, lay it in the platter 

and keep it hot for five minutes, turning it once in 

the time; thus you will have both good steak and 

good gravy. 

Professional cooks always use charcoal 
TTse of charcoal. „ n -i- i -x t ^ 

for broiling, and its advantages are 

great. As described on page 21 it needs only a sim- 
ple contrivance, easily adjusted to any stove; a hand- 
ful will broil a pound of steak, and the cooking of 
the rest of the dinner can go on without interference. 

USE OF THE THERMOMETEE TS COOKING MEAT. 

To cook meat at a temperature of between 150° 
and 160° F., is no easy matter with the usual kitchen 
appliances. Even over an easily regulated heater, as 
a gas or coal oil flame, how are we to know that tem- 
perature when it is reached ? The writer, knowing 
of no thermometer arranged for use in a kitchen, con- 
structed a simple one after the model of those used in 
laboratories. A thermometer tube registering 300° 
Celsius was simply fastened into a cork, the bulb 
projecting below and protected by a short cylinder of 
wood. This floated on the water and made it easy 
to cook at any given temperature. This thermome- 
ter was also hung in a light wire frame and used for 
testing the heat of an oven. 



44 the Heat Saver. 

THE HEAT SAVEK. 

It is a part of common information that the in- 
habitants of northern countries make extensive use 
of non-conducting substances, like wool, for prevent- 
ing the escape of heat from a vessel in which cooking 
is going on. It is strange that we do not make more 
use of such appliances, for they have often been de- 
scribed and illustrated; it is probably because they 
are not found ready-made, and with a complete list 
of directions for use. The writer made and used a 
cooker of this sort, and after considerable modifica- 
tion and experiment it became a very useful thing 
in the kitchen. If you wish to cook meat at the 
proper temperature, this contrivance makes it possi- 
ble to do so, and is also very saving of fuel. 
Directions for Take a packing box measurinar, say, 

making Heat „ „ , f^ ° , ,, ° ,, ■" 

Saver. ^ feet each way and cover the bottom 

with a layer of packed wool 4 to 6 inches thick ; set 
into the middle of this another box or a cylinder of 
sheet iron and fill the space between the two with 
a layer of wool, 4 to 6 inches thick and closely 
packed. Into the inner compartment put your ket- 
tle of meat or vegetables already brought to the boil- 
ing point and having a tightly fitting cover, and over 
this press a thick pillow or woolen blanket. Then 
fasten down tight over all, the lid of your box. As 
the heat in the water must finish the cooking already 
begun, its amount must be rightly proportioned to 
the amount of food to be cooked, e. g., two quarts of 
water to l-J lbs. beef rib, were used. The water was 
brought to the boiling point, the meat placed in it 
and allowed to boil for five minutes, the pot was 



Treatment of Tough Meat. 45 

then tightly covered, placed in the box and allowed 
to remain three hours. At the end of that time the 
meat was tender. 

TO MAKE MEAT TENDEK. 

To make meat It ig well known that meat must be 
kept some time after killing to make it 
tender. In winter, a large piece of beef or mutton 
will keep for six weeks if hung in a dry, cool place. 
Indeed, this is the time allowed in England for the 
Christmas "shoulder of mutton," and every few days 
it is rubbed over with salt and vinegar. In summer, 
unless the butcher will keep the meat for you, you 
must resort to other means. 

A tough piece of meat may be laid in not too strong 
vinegar for 3 or 4 days in summer and twice as long in 
winter, adding to the vinegar such spices as you may 
like. To soften a tough steak pour a few spoonfuls 
of vinegar on and let stand for twelve or twenty-four 
hours. This method has been long recommended and 
is to some extent used among us; the foreign cook em- 
ploys sour milk for the same purpose and with even 
greater success, but this must be changed every day and 
at the end of the time well washed from the meat. 

We cannot too strongly urge that the housekeeper, 
especially if she be straightened in means, should be- 
come used to these methods and practice them occa- 
sionally. She does not want to confine herself to soups 
and stews and she cannot buy "porter-house" steak 
at 20 or 35 cents a pound, but she can buy "round" 
at half that price, and after a little experiment can 
make it tender for boiling, roasting or broiling by one 
of these methods. In winter, she should buy a supply 
of meat ahead and keep it until it grows tender. 



EEOIPES FOE COOKIITG MEATS. 



The methods of cooking meat having been treated 
and mention made of the parts adapted to each, 
it remains only to give practical hints as to making 
and varying dishes. 

BBEI'. 

Boiled, roast and broiled beef have been suificient- 
ly dwelt upon. See pages 40-43. 

stews and Ea- ^0 mode of cooking meat has so 

gouts. many variations; the flavor of the 

meat being used to season vegetables of every sort, 

also doughs, as in dumplings, or in the crust of meat 

pie. For making meat stews see page 40. 

One-half hour before the meat is 
with potatoes. , , , ... tij.j. 

done lay on top of it peeled potatoes, 

all of the same size, and serve when done with the 

meat and gravy. 

When the meat is cooked tender, 

thicken the gravy and pour all into a 

pie or pudding dish. Cover with a common pie crust 

or one of mashed potatoes, and bake i hour. 

You may also mix sliced raw potatoes with the stew, 

in layers. 

Potato Crust. 1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 2 

tablespoons butter, 1 cup of milk, salt. Beat to- 

46 



Beef, 47 

gether till smooth, and then work in enough flour so 
that you can roll it out. It should be \ in. thick, 
and as soft as you can handle. 

Add to meat when tender, 1 qt. to- 
matoes to 2 lbs. meat. Thicken with 
flour and stew 5 minutes. 

Stews are yariously flavored; onion, 
Mavora for stews. ,, , , . , 

salt and pepper, are always in place. 

A little lemon juice added as it is served gives a deli- 
cious flavor, or even a tablespoon of vinegar may be 
used. Any herbs, a piece of carrot, a clove or bit of 
garlic, may be used for variety. Catsup is also good 
as a flavor. 

Corned Beef. Wash it Well, put into plenty of cold 
water and bring slowly to the simmering point. 
Cook 3 to 4 hours. 

Turnips or cabbage are often eaten with corn 
beef. They should not be boiled with the meat but 
in a separate pot. 

If from a good animal, beef liver is 
often as tender as calf's liver. 

This is the best method. Soak an 
Broiled. \yQy),Y in cold Water, wipe dry, slice and 

dip in melted beef fat. Broil slotoly (see page 43) till 
thoroughly done; then salt and butter. 

When prepared as above, the slices of 

liver may be fried in a pan with a little 

beef fat. This gives an opportunity for more flavors, 

as onion may be fried with it, a little vinegar added to 

the juices that fry out, then thickened and used as 

gravy. 

If liver is not quite tender it can be 

^''^^' made into a stew, or it may be chopped 



48 Recoohing Beef. 

fine, mixbd with bread crumbs and egg and baked ^ 
hour. 

If fire is no object, you may boil a 

beef's heart, it will take all day. Put 

into cold water and bring slowly to the simmering 

point and keep it there. Kext day it may be stufEed 

with well seasoned bread crumbs and baked f hour. 

Cut in strips, soak in salt and vine- 

Tripe . 

gar ■§• day, wipe dry and fry in hot lard. 
It may also be stewed. 

KECOOKING BEEF. 

(A.) Boiled, baked or broiled beef which is ten- 
der and full of flayor. 

To serve roast beef a second time. 
Koast beef re- Heat the gravy, put the roast in it. 
served. After trimming it into shape again, 

cover closely and put into a hot oven for ten minutes 
or less according to size of piece. 

Or, cut in slices and lay in hot gravy only long 
enough to heat them through. 

Being full of flavor such meat may 
be chopped and mixed with from ^ to | 
as much chopped or mashed potatoes, bread crumbs 
or boiled rice. These mixtures may be warmed as 
hash, or made into cakes or balls to be fried on a grid- 
dle or in boiling fat. 

Mix the chopped meat with the potatoes, bread- 
crumbs or rice as above, add salt and pepper and 
make quite moist with water or soup. Put a good 
piece of butter or of beef fat into a spider, and when 
it is hot, put in the hash. Cover and let it steam. 



Recoohing Soup Meat. 49 

then remove cover and let it dry out while a brown 
crust forms on the bottom. Or, stir till hot and 
dish immediately. 

Make not quite as moist as for hash, 

form into little cakes, dust with flour, 

and fry to a nice brown in a little beef dripping on a 

griddle. Or, egg and bread crumb the balls, and fry 

in boiling fat. 

(B.) RECOOKIKG SOUP MEAT. 

This meat, though made tender by long cooking, 
has given much of its flavor to the soup. It has 
not, to the same degree, however, lost its nutritive 
value; if we can make it taste good again, both palate 
and stomach will approve it. 

It will not do to mix this meat with neutral sub- 
stances like potatoes and bread; it needs addition 
rather than subtraction. 

In any case, first chop the meat very fine. 
Pressed soup Season the chopped beef well with 

meat. gait and pepper, and some other addi- 

tion, as celery salt or nutmeg, or some of the sweet 
herbs. Moisten with soup or stock, pack in a square, 
deep tin and place in the oven for a short time. To 
be sliced cold, or warmed as a meat hash to be served 

on toast. 

,, ^ ^ ., When so good a dish as this can be 

Meat Croquettes. ° 

made out of soup meat, it is worth a 
little trouble. 

Ingredients. 2 cups of the chopped beef, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 egg, i a lemon or 
1 tablespoon vinegar, a few gratings of nutmeg and 
i cup of stock or milk. 
5 



50 Veal. 

Cook the flour in the butter and add the stock or 
milk and seasoning, then the beef, and cook, stirring 
all the time till the mass cleaves from the side of the 
kettle. Let it get cold, then make into little egg 
shaped balls, let them dry a little, roll in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

To vary — add -J as much chopped salt or fresh pork 
as you have meat. 

TEAL. 

This meat takes other flavors well and is used by 

cooks for all manner of fancy dishes. It is lacking 

in fat and for that reason easily dries in cooking; an 

addition of pork is always an advantage to the taste. 

It must be always well cooked, never rare. 

This may be a piece cut from loin, 
EoastVeal. , , i n t -i • 

breast or shoulder, or a rib piece. 

Koast like beef (see page 35), allowing twice as long, 

or l-J— 2 hours, for any piece under 4 lbs. 

Broiled veal Outlets, chops and steaks are broiled 

chops. like beef, but slower and twice as long 

and must be buttered and floured to prevent drying. 

Should be served with a tomato or onion sauce. 

Cook like beef stew, see page 46. 

Veal stew. ^^ , ■ ■, ■ ^t 

it may be varied m the same way, 
and is generally more highly seasoned. Especially 
good as pot-pie. Salt pork should be added to it. 
Liver, Sweet- Yea] liver, sweetbreads and heart are 
Heart. all tender and excellent, but high priced, 

especially the sweetbreads. Liver and heart are pre- 
pared like the same parts in beef (see page 47), but the 
heart cooks tender in two hours. This latter is an ex- 



Mutton and Lamh. 5] 

cellent dish, do not soak it — stufE with well seasoned 
bread crumbs and bake, basting well. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Mutton and The quality of mutton is so varying 

lamb. that whien cooked the dish is often a dis- 

appointment. The influence of long keeping or 
" hanging" upon it is even more beneficial than upon 
beef. 

Fat of Mutton. Some cooks trim 
away every bit of fat from mutton. It 
is perfectly wholesome, but sometimes gets a taste 
from coming in contact with the hide or hair of the 
animal; hence the prejudice. Scrape the outside of 
the meat well, pulling off the dried skin and cutting 
away the dark ends. 

Unlike beef, other pieces besides the 

Pieces to roast. ., , „ j.- j.i 1 • j 

rib are good for roasting; the lom and 

haunch are most economical, the shoulder next, the 

leg next. Eoast like beef, see page 35. 

Unless the meat is first class, do not roast, but boil 

it. The leg is oftenest used for this purpose. 

Simmer about 13 minutes to the 

To boU mu on. p^^j^^ . ^j^g^^ jg ^j^g j.^|g^ |j^t ygj-y f pg. 

quently the meat when it comes on the table, will 
be tough, owing entirely to the difference in the qual- 
ity of the meat. Such meat must be boiled twice as 
long, or is better cooked in a stew. 

The chop is oftenest broiled and is 

Mutton chops. ^ j^j^^^g ^jgj^_ (.^^ J jjj_ ^jjjpjj.^ ^^^ 

broil rare like beef. 

Chops and cutlets are excellent fried in fat. See 
page 40. 



52 Porh. 

Mutton stew. This IS the most economical and per- 

haps the most satisfactory of all mutton dishes. The 
inferior parts, as the neck, are as good as any for this 
purpose. Proceed exactly as with beef stew. 
A good stew is made from sheep's kidneys. 

These may b» mentioned because 
Sheep tongues. i- ^i it 

sometimes thrown away or sold very 

cheap. Clean well, and simmer 1^ hours, with a 
little pork and onion. Add to the gravy 1 table- 
spoon of vinegar. 

All these I'ecipes for mutton apply to the cooking 
of lamb ; remembering however, that lamb, like veal, 
must be thoroughly cooked. 

PORK. 

Pork does not need to be kept in order to be ten- 
der, that is one of its great recommendations to the 
housekeeper. It is also easily cooked and we may 
lay aside some of the precautions we use regarding 
beef: The lean of fresh pork however, is apt to dry 
in cooking. 

The leg, the loin and the chine are 

Roasting: pieces. , .. . ,, ., ., 

good roasting pieces as well as the rib. 
Pork is so rich in flavor that it seasons finely a bread 
crumb dressing, to which add a little sage and vin- 
egar or chopped pickles. Bake separately, and lay 
around it when served. Or better, though more 
trouble, make holes in the roast and force the stuff- 
ing in. 

Put directly into a hot oven in a pan containing 
some hot fat, and baste very frequently till done. 
Allow at least 30 minutes to the pound. 



Ham. ^63 

steaks and chops. Steaks and chops are broiled, but the 
surface must be kept well moistened with butter or 
beef fat, or they will be dry and tasteless. 

Fresh pork is seldom boiled and it is 
too fat for a stew, though the lean may 
be selected and cooked like beef stew. It makes also 
an excellent potpie, or meat pie. See page 46. 

Pig's liver is good cooked like beef's 
liver, and is cheaper. See page 47. 

The cooking of this is very simple. 

Pork Sausage. -ci i ■ j- ■ ^, 

i^ry brown in a frymg pan on the 
stove, or better, set the pan in a hot oven, you will 
then avoid the sputtering of the fat. 

HAM, SALT POKK AND BACOBT. 

Ham may be cooked in any way in which fresh 
pork is cooked. It may be cut in ^ in. slices, or 
thinner, and broiled or fried lightly in a pan. If 
long cooked it becomes tough and dry. If too salt 
for this, it may be soaked a half hour in warm 
water. 

A large piece of ham is best boiled. If very salt, 
soak it in cold water for 34 hours, then put into 
cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and simmer half 
a day if the ham is of good size. A ham may also be 
baked. 

Dishes from cold So highly flavored a meat can be 
ham. used in numberless ways, especially 

combined with vegetables and bread. 

Chop -J lb. fine, season with mus- 

Sandwiohes. . j j i j. i,i 

tard, pepper and 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 



54 Salt- Porh and Bacon. 

Ham cakes. Take 1 cup finely chopped boiled 

ham, 2 cups of breadcrumbs, 3 eggs, pepper and salt, 
and enough milk to make quite moist. 

To use. 1st. Fry on a griddle in small spoonfuls, 
and turn as pancakes. 

2d. Use mashed potatoes instead of breadcrumbs, 
and fry as aboye. 

3d. Take either of the above mix- 

Croquettes. , . , ,.,,, -.,, 

tures, using, however, little or no milk, 
make into little balls and after rolling in egg and bread- 
crumbs, fry in boiling fat. 

4th. "With eggs. Put either of these 
mixtures into a baking dish; smooth the 
surface and make little hollows in it with the bowl of 
a spoon. Put in the oven till hot, then break an egg 
into each depression, and return to the oven till the' 
eggs are set. 

Broiled Salt Pork After slicing thin, freshen salt pork 
and Bacon ^y laying in cold water over night or \ 
hour in warm water. Broil till transparent and a 
delicate brown in color. Broil bacon without freshen- 
ing. 

Less delicate than broiled, but much 

more economical, because saving the 

fat. Fry only till transparent. Salt pork must be 

first freshened. To make milk gravy of the fat, see 

"meat and vegetable sauces," page 73. 

Both salt pork and bacon are boiled with vegeta- 
bles. 

Bacon or Porh and Gabhage. This is a favorite 
mixture, and if the cabbage is only boiled half an 
hour and not in the same pot with the porkj-it is not 



Fresh Fish. 55 

an indigestible dish. Put the pork into cold water, 
bring slowly to a boil and simmer from -^ to 3 hours, 
according to size of piece. 

Cook 1 qt. dried peas according to 
directions for pea soup, page 117. Boil 
pork with the peas during the last hour, or after 
parboiling, bake like pork and beans. 

Cook 1 qt. beans according to soup 

Pork and Beans. . w-»,tx,., 

recipe, page 117. Parboil 1 lb. salt side 
pork, score the skin in squares, half bury in the beans 
and bake 2 hours, or till a nice brown. 
Pork and Pota- Slice a dozen potatoes thin, also i lb. 
toes. fat salt pork, put into a pudding dish 

in alternate layers, seasoning with salt and pepper 
(only a little of the former). Bake, covered, | hour, 
uncover and brown. 

Fruits seasoned with meat iuices and 

Pork and Apples. „ ,•.-,»•,,. 

fats, instead of with sugar, are not 
enough known among us. 

Slice sour apples round in slices ^ in. thick with- 
out peeling, and fry with strips of pork or bacon. 
Serve together. 

FKESH FISH. 

The varieties of fresh fish are numberless, and to 
cook and serve them in perfection requires careful 
study from the cook. The subject must here be 
treated very briefly. 

Fresh fish may be cooked in any of the ways appli- 
cable to meat ; the length of time being much shorter, 
and care being required on account of the delicacy of 
the fibre. This makes broiling somewhat difBcult. 



56 Salt Fish. 

Small fish are perhaps best egged and bread crumbed 
and fried in hot fat. 

This dish deseryes especial mention 

Msh Chowder. , js -j. i i -i a 

because of its cheapness and good fla- 
vor. It may be made of any fresh fish. 

Fill a pudding dish with the fish cut in pieces, 
seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and bits 
of suet or fat pork ; put over it a potato crust as for 
meat pie ( see page 46 ), or a soda biscuit crust, and 
bake. Bread crumbs or sliced potatoes may be mixed 
with the fish, and more seasoning used. 

Fresh fish can also be made into 
soups, and the cheaper kinds should be 
more used for this purpose. 

Cook 1 tablespoon of flour in 1 table- 
spoon of butter. Add 1-^ qts. milk, or 
milk and water, and when it boils stir in 1 teacup of 
cold boiled codfish that has been freed from skin and 
bones and then chopped fine or rubbed through a 
sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Buuhead or Cat- -A-H excellent soup can be made of 
fish Soup. this cheap fish. 

Clean and cut up 3 or 3 lbs. and boil an hour in 3 
qts. water with an onion and a piece of celery or any 
herbs (it must be well seasoned). Then add 1 cup 
of milk and a piece of butter or beef fat, or a piece 
of salt pork cut in bits may be boiled with the fish. 

SALT riSH. 
Salt Cod. This jg one of tiig eT^eap fg^^g ^hat 

seems to be thoroughly appreciated among us, and 
good ways of cooking it are generally uijderstood. 



Fowls. 57 

It must be freshened by laying it in water over 
night ; put into cold water and bring gradually to a 
boil; set the kettle back where it will keep hot for 
half an hour, separate the flakes and serve with a 
milk sauce. 

This favorite dish is prepared by 

adding to codfish, boiled as above and 

finely shredded, a like quantity of mashed potato. 

Make into balls and fry on a griddle or in boiling fat. 

Any other fish can be used in the same way. 

FOWLS. 

The flesh of fowls cannot rank among cheap foods, 
but in any economical family the Sunday dinner may 
often be a fricassee niade of a fowl no longer young. 
Unless very ancient, the flavor of such a fowl will be 
richer than that of a chicken ; we have but to cook 
it till it is tender. 

Old Fowl Erie- Cut into joints, put into cold water 
asseed and bring slowly to a simmering heat ; 

on no account let it boil, — keep it as nearly as pos- 
sible at 170° for 3 or 4 hours, or till it is very tender. 
At the end of 2 hours, add a sliced onion and salt 
and thicken the gravy. 

None but the wealthy should use 
en oup. (jjjjckens for soup, but from the bones 
left of baked or fricasseed chicken a good and eco- 
nomical soup can be made. Boil an hour or two, 
take out the bones, thicken a little and serve with 
bread dice fried in butter. 

An excellent soup can be made of the 
Gibiet Soup. giUets, that is, heart, liver and neck of 
chicken, and other fowls, which in city markets are 



58 Eggs. 

sold separately and very cheap. Out in small pieces 
and boil % hours with onion and herbs, then add a 
little butter and thickening, salt and pepper. 

EGGS. 

The importance of eggs is to be estimated from 
various points of view; their food value is great, 
their digestibility when fresh is almost perfect, and 
they can be cooked in so many ways and are a neces- 
sary ingredient of so many dishes, that the cook could 
ill spare them. Indeed, in all countries, their con- 
sumption seems to be limited only by their price. 

After the first twenty-four hours an' 
egg steadily deteriorates. Physicians 
say, "never give to an invalid an egg that is more 
than two or three days old." 

There are methods in use for preserving eggs fresh, 
on the principle of excluding air by sealing up the 
pores of the shell, but none of them are without risk 
and they cannot be recommended to one who must 
economize closely. It is better to go without eggs as 
nearly as possible in winter. 

Eggs are as digestible raw as cooked, 

^ ^^^' and one easily comes to like the taste of 

a fresh raw egg beaten to a foam and mixed with a 
little milk or water and sugar flavored with a little 
nutmeg or jelly. 

, To soft boil an egg its temperature 

soft BoUed E^gs. ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^ ^q<,_ ^j^^ 

white will then be a jelly-like, digestible substance, 
but if exposed to a higher temperature, the white 
becomes horny while the yolk remains uncooked or 



Egg Dishes. 59 

becomes pasty. There are two methods of boiling an 
egg properly, which may be adopted according to 
convenience. 

1st. Allow 1 qt. of boiling water to 4 eggs. Use a 
pail or jar ( heated before the water is put in ) and 
wrap around with a flannel cloth. The eggs will be 
done in 6 minutes, but are not harmed by ten. 

3d. Put the eggs into cold water and bring slowly 
to a boil. They are done when the water begins to 
boil. 

To boil an egg hard, it is no more 

Hard Boiled Eggs. , ... , . . , 

necessary to expose it to a high degree 
of heat than in the case of the soft boiled ; the heat 
must simply be much longer continued, 30 minutes 
to a half hour. The egg will then be solid but not 
horny as when cooked in boiling water. 

A great many attractive dishes can be made of cold 
boiled eggs. 

Scrambled, Thesc are but different modes of cook- 

and'tak^eggs.' ing eggs soft or solid. The taste will 
be more delicate and they will be more digestible if 
in these cases also only the low degree of heat above 
mentioned be applied — more time being given them 
than is usually allowed. 

EGG DISHES. 

These dishes under many names and in many forms 
are of next importance after meats, composed, as they 
generally are, of eggs and vegetables or some prepara- 
tion of the grains, while numberless additions and fla- 
vors are used to give variety and make the dish tempt- 
ing to the eye and palate. Eggs so prepared have their 
full nutritive value; not so in rich puddings and cakes. 



60 Egg Dishes. 

wherethey are mixed with more sugar and fat than 
the system can take up in any quantity. 

The following are a few recipes that have not been 
included under other heads. Many others will be 
found under the Cooking of the Grains. 

1 cup of hard bread partly softened in 

Bread omelet. , . , t -n • 1 1 i 

hot water and milk, or m cold water 

(in which case press in a cloth and crumble), add ^ of a 

chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 egg, 

salt and pepper. Heat in the frying pan or square 

baking pan, some bits of suet or beef fat, and pour 

in the omelet. Cover and bake five minutes, then 

uncover and brown. Or it may be cooked slowly on 

top of the stove. Cut in pieces and serve around the 

meat or with a gravy. 

Bread, fresh or stale, is cut in long 
Egged bread. , . . j -±1 

strips, or m squares or rounds with a 

cake cutter. Let them soak till soft but not broken, 
in 1 pt. of salted milk into which two eggs have been 
beaten. Bake a nice brown or fry on a griddle in 
half suet and half butter. (May be made with one 
egg.) 

Fry a small onion, sliced, in a tea- 
spoonful of butter or fat; fill the pan 
with 3 cups of cold sliced potatoes, salt and pepper 
them, and pour over them 3 beaten eggs. Bake slowly 
till it is Just solid and turn out carefully on a plat- 
ter. Or, 1 cup potatoes and 1 cup bread crumbs 
may be used. 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoons 

Bice omelet. -n -. i l h xr- -< 

milk, 1 egg, -J teaspoon salt. Mix and 

pour into a pan in which a tablespoon of butter has 



Cheese Dishes. 61 

been heated. Fry and double over when done. Or, 
it may be baked like potato omelet. 

1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 
pinch of salt, add the beaten white of 
the egg last. 

This is the "Yorkshire Pudding" which is cooked 
in the pan over which beef is roasting; it is cut in 
squares and served around the meat. It may also be 
baked in a buttered pan without meat. 

3 eggs, 1 cup flour (scant), 1 table- 
Tomato omelet. „ , , , . , 

spoon fine herbs, salt and cayenne pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon sugar, juice of 2 large tomatoes and 
1 cup warm milk. Bake under roasting meat, or alone 
in a buttered pan. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Almost any cheese will give a good result" in these 

dishes. Crumbly cream cheese is richer in taste and 

has also been shown to be more quickly digested. 

Skim cheeses are as nutritious except in fat, and in 

some dishes, as in " Fondamin " give a better result. 

Grate old cheeses, chop new and soft ones. 

Grate old cheese and serve with bread 
Grated cheese. n , , , t^ • i i -\-,-i_- ±_ 

and butter. It is also a good addition to 

mashed potato, to flour porridges, to oatmeal and 

and wheat flour porridges, to rice, sago, tapioca and 

indeed to any starchy foods; it should be stirred 

in while these are quite hot. Its use with macaroni 

is given elsewhere. 

Cooked oheeso The basis of these dishes is toasted 

with bread. bread (white or graham) arranged on a 

platter, and enough salted water poured on to soften it. 



62 Cheese Dishes. 

1. Grate enough old cheese to cover the toast pre- 
pared as aboTe. Set in the oven to melt, and put 
the slices together as sandwiches. This is the simplest 
form of " Welsh Rarebit.' 

2. -J lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter and 1 cup milk. 
Stir till smooth over a gentle fire or in a water bath 
and spread over the toast. 

3. i lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 egg yolks, 
■^ teaspoon mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Stir 
to smooth paste, spread on the toast and set in a hot 
oven for 4 minutes. 

4. To each person allow 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
grated cheese, ^ teaspoon butter or 1 tablespoon milk, 
a little salt and pepper (cayenne best). Cook like cus- 
tard in a pail set in a kettle of hot water, stirring 
till smooth, it may then be used on toast or poured 
out on a platter. It may also be steamed 5 minutes 
in little cups, or baked very slowly for 10 minutes. 

5. Slices of bread lightly buttered, 3 eggs, 1^ cups 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese. Soak the 
bread in the milk and egg till soft but not broken. 
Lay the pieces in a pan, cover with the cheese and 
bake or steam. 

Fondamin or This is a famous foreign dish, and 

Fondue. although it may seem to have a good 

many ingredients, it is really not much trouble to 
make. 

i lb. of grated cheese (skim better than cream) add 
to 1 gill of milk, in which is as much bicarbonate of 
potash as will lie on a three cent piece, i teaspoon 
mustard, ^ saltspoon white pepper, a few grains of cay- 
enne, 1 oz. butter, a grating of nutmeg and 2 table- 



Milh. 63 

spoons baked flour. Heat carefully till the cheese is 
dissolved. Add 3 beaten eggs and stir till smooth. 
This mixture should be baked separately for each per- 
son in patty pans or paper cases and eaten imme- 
diately. All cheese dishes should be served very hot. 

MILK. 

Milk is sometimes called the one perfect food, con- 
taining all the constituents in their right proportions. 
This is true only for the requirements of a baby, but 
it remains for any age a valuable food when rightly 
supplemented. 

Milk contains on the average 3.31^ proteids, 3.66^ 
fat, 4. 9^ carbohydrates, 87. 41^ water, and . 70^ salts. 

The housewife, if she wishes to use milk with 
economy, will not in cooking use it as such, but 
with due regard to the different values of the cream 
and the skim parts. In cities skim milk is sold for 
about one-half the price of full milk, and is well 
worth it if pure, but it is too often mixed with water. 
As soon as milk comes into the house 
°^ it should be boiled, as it is a notorious 

carrier of disease germs which only in this way can 
be killed. Use an earthenware pitcher and let the 
milk remain standing in the same after cooking. 
The next day remove the cream for the morning's 
coffee, and use the skim part during the day for cook- 
ing, with or without the addition of a little butter. 
To keep milk sweet in warm weather 
eepiDR .^ ^ serious question to the housekeeper 

who has no cellar or refrigerator. It is of first im- 
portance that the vessels used to contain it should be 



64 Milk. 

scrupulously clean. Boiling, as above mentioned, 
and cooling it rapidly afterwards, will keep it sweet 
for 24 hours, unless the weather is very warm, and 
the time may be further extended by keeping the 
milk pitcher set in a dish of cold water. A quarter 
of a teaspoonful of baking soda to a quart of milk, 
added while it is still sweet, may be used in case of 
necessity but this is not to be commended for com- 
mon use. 

A method that the writer has em- 

CanningMOk. i j • .i- • i ■ j-i, 

ployed IS this : simply canning the 
milk as one would can fruit. Fill glass jars and screw 
down the lids, then place them in a steamer over cold 
water ; heat the water gradually and steam the jars 
for an hour, then tighten the tops. I have never 
kept milk so treated for more than a week, but see 
no reason why it should not keep much longer. 

However, if you find yourself with 

sour milk on your hands, do not throw 
it away, it has many uses. Buttermilk is also very 
valuable to the housewife ; it can be kept a long time 
in good condition for mixing doughs by covering 
with water, which must, however, be often changed 
for fresh. 

USES FOE SOUE MILK AITD BUTTEEMILK. 

Bonny Clabber. Put gtim mjik into a glass dish or 
into tea cups and set away until it becomes solid. 
Then eat with sugar and powdered cinnamon sprink- 
led over it. 

Set thick sour milk where it will 
Cottage Cheese. , , j n .-m .i j j. 

heat gradually till the curd separates, 

then pour into a bag and let it drip till dry. Salt 

well, and add a little cream or milk and melted butter. 



Sour Milk and Buttermilk. 65 

1st. As a drink. For this it should 

Buttermilk. , „ , 

be very fresh. 

2d. Buttermilk soup. (See page 123. ) 

Both buttermilk and sour milk can 
Uses for both. - -, 

be used 

1st. In making soda biscuit dough (see page 103.) 

2d. In pancakes of all kinds (see page 103.) 

3d. In corn bread (see page 103.) 

4th. In some kinds of cake, as in gingerbread, 
cookies and doughnuts, where they are by many cooks 
preferred to sweet milk ; and in almost any kind of cake 
sour milk may be substituted for sweet, remembering 
always to use' only half the quantity of cream of tartar 
called for in the recipe. 



FATS AN'D OILS. 



The third food principle, Fats, stands between the 
two great nutrients, Proteids on the one hand and 
Carbohydrates on the other, and we find that we can 
indulge in considerable latitude as to its use. When 
we wish to get our food in a more condensed form, 
we can use fats freely in connection with proteids 
and lessen the amount of carbohydrates. In army 
dietaries the amount of fat is largely increased for 
marching, and for great exertion the quantity be- 
comes three times that allowed in garrison life. For 
instance, the daily rations served out to the German 
soldiers in Prance during the month of August, 1870, 

contained 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

ArmyDieta^r. 157^0,5. 285 gms. 331 gms. 

It was represented by 1 lb. 10 oz. of bread, about 
1-J lbs. of meat, and over ^ lb. of bacon besides an 
allowance of coffee, tobacco and wine or beer. Prof. 
Ranke has called this an admirable diet for fighting 
men. In garrison life these soldiers would have 're- 
ceived only 56 grams of fat, and 120 grams of pro- 
teids while the carbohydrates would have been in- 
creased to 500 grams or more. 

On the other hand, fat when coupled with enough 
carbohydrate food can replace some of the proteid, 
and often does so in the food of hardy and econom- 

66 



Importance of Fats. 67 

Diet of Bavarian ical people. The Bavarian woodchop- 
woodohopper. per is enabled by his splendid digestion 
to arrange his diet in the following way : he takes 
little proteid from the animal kingdom, but in order 
to get enough of it from vegetable products, he must, 
as we know, take in an immense quantity of the 
starch associated with it, and to this he adds a great 
quantity of fat. Von Liebig says that such a man 
takes on the average 

Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

113 gms. 309 gms. 691 gms. 

We see therefore that we can have a sliding scale 
for fat; that while we should not go below 2 oz. a day, 
we may, in case we lower one or both of the other 
two great constituents, go up to 8 or 9 oz. 
Importance of People belonging to the well-to-do 
Fat not realized, classcs, unless they have given special 
study to the subject, seldom realize the importance 
of fat in our economy. Fat means to them fat meat, 
suet, lard and the like, and the much eating of these 
is considered proof of a gross appetite; they do not 
consider how much fat they take in eggs, in milk, in 
grains like oatmeal and maize, in the seasoning of 
their varied dishes, and in their well-fattened meats, 
where, as in an average piece from a very fat mutton, 
they eat twice as much fat as proteid without knowing 
it. 

Indeed, a well fed man of the upper classes may 
have more fat in his daily diet than has the freshly 
arrived Mechlenburg laborer who spreads a quarter 
inch layer of lard on his bread. The latter cannot 
take his fat in unsuspected forms; he craves this 



68 Substitutes for Butter. 

principle with his plain vegetable diet, and must take 
it as he can get it. 

Now let ns understand that where economy is to be 
considered, this question of fat does not take care of 
itself as it does for the rich man. The economical 
housewife should always keep in mind that she must 
furnish her family enough fat, and furnish it cheaply. 
Substitutes for Butter is a dear fat ; count out the 
Butter. water in it and see what it costs you. 
We must economize in butter in as many ways as 
possible. We must eat more fat meat, first, that 
which is ingrained with the lean where it takes the 
place of water, as we have seen under "Proteids," 
costing us practically nothing; when we eat our 
vegetables seasoned with such a piece of meat, we 
find them sufficiently seasoned. We must also eat 
more of fat meat which we recognize as such, taking 
pains to cook it so that it will be palatable; the 
crisp, brown outside of a roast is always welcome, but 
the fat of boiled beef or mutton will also be relished 
if served very hot. An excellent selection in low- 
priced beef, is the fat middle rib; the lean part is 
very tender and juicy when cooked in water at a low 
temperature for two or three hours ( or in Heat Saver, 
see page 44, for three or four hours ) and- the fat, if . 
served hot, any but a pampered taste will relish. 
Too much cannot be said in praise of pork as furnish- 
ing a good tasting and cheap fat ; it can be cooked in 
many ways and used to flavor vegetables, etc. 
Digestibility of It is consoling to the economist to 
^t- know that little of this food prin- 

ciple will be wasted in the body. Pat is more com- 



Artificial Butter. 69 

pletely absorbed, according to the testimony of the 
experimenters, than any other kind of food, even 
meat. 

We want to say a few words as to the character of 
different animal fats, and then we are done with this 
subject. 

All the fats consumed by us, without exception, are 

composed of three bodies called neutral fats, mixed 

together in varying proportions. These three bodies 

are "olein," "palmatin" (margarin), and "stearin," 

and the chief difference between them is that they 

melt at different temperatures; the more olein a 

fat has, the more easily it melts, and the less it has, 

the more it is like tallow. In vegetable oils, we find 

in addition to these, small quantities of what are 

called "fatty acids," and in butter we have beside the 

three common fats, a small per cent of four scarcer 

ones. 

Practically therefore, all fats are 
Fats compared. ,., ji, ^. i. 3 ±\. j 

alike, and when absorbed they do 

the same work in the body, their varying flavors 

and their colors having nothing to do with this. 

However, their flavor, their appearance and the 
ease with which they melt in the mouth and in the 
digestive tract have much to do with our estimation 
of them as foods. Mutton fat will do our body the 
same service as butter, but because of the relatively 
small amount of olein it contains, we have difficulty 
in swallowing it. 

As to the comparative digestibility of these fats, it 
is generally admitted that those which melt at a low 
temperature, like butter and vegetable oils, are most 



70 Artificial Butter. 

readily taken up by the system; it is thouglit that 
we could digest beeswax if it would melt in the 
stomach. Still, although butter stands in common 
estimation as the most digestible, as it is the most 
palatable of the fats, the stomach finds no trouble in 
disposing of reasonable amounts of any fat used in 
the household. 

The fact that all fats are so similar 

Artificial Butter. . ... -, n , •/• t 

m composition, and that, it once di- 
gested, they will do the same service in the body, 
first led scientists to try to make out of the cheaper 
fats a substitute for butter. It was Napoleon III 
who set the chemist M^ge-Mourier at work to dis- 
cover an artificial butter for use in the army. This 
chemist added butter color and flavors made in the 
laboratory, to olein and margarin extracted from beef 
suet, and mixed with this a little real butter, and so 
successful was the result, that the making of artifi- 
cial butter has become a great industry. Now cer- 
tainly no one objects to artificial butter on the ground 
that it is made of animal fats, for he eats these every 
day on his table ; he objects because he has doubts as 
to the cleanliness or the healthfulness of its method 
of manufacture. 

Therefore since the substitution, to some extent, 
of animal fats for butter is from an economic stand- 
point so desirable, if we cannot bring ourselves to 
use oleomargarine we must do the best we can in 
these kitchen laboratories of ours to make other fats 
than butter acceptable to the taste. 



Uses of Fats. 71 

USES OF FATS. 

Beef Suet. Its Beef suet has many uses. It should be 
®^" bought perfectly fresh, that surround- 

ing the kidneys being chosen as of the best quality. 
Chopped fine, it is used in suet puddings, and may 
be employed to enrich other puddings made of skim 
milk, as a rice pudding; it combines veil with 
bread crumbs in any hot dish, in bread puddings, 
bread stuffing, bread omelet and soup balls. In all 
cases it must be chopped fine and cooked sufficiently 
to fully incorporate it with the other materials. 
Suet may also be used in. many flour dishes instead 
of butter, if they are only cooked long enough and 
eaten warm, also in all cake where molasses and 
spices or any strong flavor is used. 

Every bit of marrow in bones should 
be scraped out and carefully used. Its 
taste is more delicate than that of suet, and it can be 
substituted for butter even in fine cake. 

Whatever butter you use in cooking 

Butter tried out. , ,-, t -, -i ll ^ ■ ^ i. 

should be cooked butter which may be 
prepared when butter is cheap and put away for 
winter use. So prepared it will keep as long as lard. 
A second quality of butter may be used for this, or 
that which is beginning to be rancid; if already so, 
add \ teaspoon soda to each pound, but such butter 
when tried out will not keep as long as that made 
from sweet butter. In trying out butter great 
care must be taken not to burn it. Put it in a 
large iron kettle and cook it down very slowly until 
you no longer hear the sound of boiling ; it will then 
begin to froth and rise and this is a sure sign that 



72 Preparation of Fats for Cooking. 

the process is completed. Set the kettle back to cool 
a few moments, then skim and pour off the butter 
from the dregs into jars. Keep in a cool place and 
closely coTered. In any recipe use \ less than of fresh 

butter. 

This should be done -with eyen more 
care, to avoid the tallowy flavor. Exact 
directions are given in " Cooking Methods," page 41. 
The "scraps" are often relished by children. 

This beef fat (which we decline to call tallow) 
should be put away in cakes in a jar closely covered. 
To use it, scrape it fine, sprinkling a 
little flour in it to keep it light. So 
prepared it may be used in any of the ways mentioned 
under "suet," and to this list still others may be 
added, since it does not need, as does suet, long cook- 
ing in order to mix it well with the other ingredients 
of the dish. It can be used successfully in warm 
breads of all kinds, and in all but the nicest cakes 
if mixed with ^ butter. 

Much of the lard now furnished is so 
poor, that unless one pays a high price 
to a well known dealer, it is better for each house- 
keeper to buy the leaf lard and try it out herself. 

Cut fine and cook all the water out, taking care not 
to bum. 

The "scraps" are even better than those left from 
suet and should by no means be thrown away. 

SAUCES FOE MEAT ASTD VEGETABLES. 

The economical and busy housewife says she has no 
time nor money for sauces, but the fact is she cannot 
afford to do without them. 



Sauces. 73 

All vegetables must Jiave some fat to season them 
and to use butter in every case is extravagant and 
gives no variety, while a cheaper fat if made into a 
sauce with flour and water, can be flavored in a dozen 
ways. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCES. 

Drawn butter, which is the foundation of most of 
the sauces is thus made. 

A heaping tablespoon of butter or beef 

^°' fat is put into a saucepan; when it boils, 

1 heaping tablespoon flour is added and stirred as it 
cooks. To this add gradually 1 pt. of water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and \ teaspoon of pepper. If you wish to 
unite economy and good flavor use ^ tablespoon of 
beef fat in making the sauce, and add \ tablespoon 
butter, cut in little pieces, just before serving. 

71^47^ sauce is the same, made with milk instead of 
water. 

In brown sauce, the fat and flour are stirred till 
they brown, then make as above. 

Any number of sauces can be made from these 
three by adding different flavors; chopped pickles and 
a tablespoon vinegar are added to No. 1 when it is to 
be used on fish; or mustard for mustard sauce. 

The addition of eggs raw or cooked makes another 

variety. 

With the help of milk we can make 
^™"^' a gravy as in " milk sauce," with beef 
or pork fat, seasoning with salt and pepper and per- 
haps some powdered herb. 

Children like all these gravies, if nicely made and 
flavored, to eat on bread as well as on vegetables. 
7 



74 Sauces. 

MEAT SAUCES. 

A few cheap sauces for meats alone deserve special 

mention. 

3 tablespoons green mint or spear mint 

Mint sauce. ^ i -< i -i i i 

chopped, 1 tablespoon sugar, -J cup 
vinegar. Mix and let stand an hour or two. 

Boil 1 pt. fresh or canned tomatoes 

Tomato sauce. . , t,,i • -,, -i ^ x, a 

With a little onion, salt, and herb flavor- 
ing until quite thick, then strain and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of flour cooked in a teaspoonful of butter. 

Any sour fruit, as apples or plums, 
Etult sauce. , n, , i ^ -^i 

makes an excellent sauce to eat with 

meat. Apple sauce goes especially well with pork. 
Horseradish A.dd to drawn butter or any meat 

sauce. gravy ^ cup grated horseradish. Sim- 

mer a few minutes. 



CAEBOHTDEATE - COI^TAII^ING 
FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



"We are now to furnish for the body the third great 
food principle, the carbohydrates. These we mean 
when we speak of the starches and sugars, and with 
unimportant exceptions, they are furnished by the 
vegetable world only. 

As we have seen, that troublesome 
body, cellulose, plays here a large role. 
It is the skeleton, so to speak, of plants, built by them 
out of sugar and starch; the chemist finds no diflS- 
culty in his laboratory in turning it back into de'xtrin 
and sugar, and our stomachs too can digest a large part 
of the cellulose of very young and tender plants, — 
from 47^ to 62^ it has been found, of young lettuce, 
celery, cabbage and carrots, — but in older plants, the 
cellulose proper becomes all intergrown and encrusted 
with substances of a woody and mineral nature, from 
which even the chemist separates it with the greatest 
difficulty, while our digestive juices are entirely un- 
equal to the task. Therefore it is that the whole art 
of the cook is needed in treating this substance; she 
must soften it, she must break it up, and in many 
cases separate it as completely as possible from the 
sugars, starches and proteids which it hinders us from 
appropriating to our use. 

75 



76 Cellulose. 

In some cases, as in oatmeal and gra- 
ham flour, we leave the cellulose because 
of its mechanical action on the bowels. To be sure, 
this is a wasteful process, for the cellulose carries with 
it when it leaves the body considerable undigested 
food, but better this waste than to give the muscles 
of our intestines so little work to do that they be- 
come unable to digest any but fine, condensed foods. 
As a rule, however, we must think of cellulose 
not as a food at all, but as a tough, foreign body 
which we must reckon with before we can utilize the 
proteid and starch particles of many important vege- 
table foods. 

Amount of The carbohydrates, especially the 

Carbohydrate, starches, are the cheapest of the food 
constituents and therefore most apt to be in excess, 
especially in the food of the poor. According to 
estimates already given, an adult at average hard work 
gets along nicely with 1\ lbs. of carbohydrate mate- 
rial (meaning, of course, the dry amount of this one 
principle), though fortunately, as mentioned under 
" Fats," it is found that some of this large amount 
can be exchanged for fat, if the body, for any reason 
can better use the latter. Brainworkers and the 
richer classes the world over take less of carbohy- 
drates, at least in their starch form, and more pro- 
teids and fats. 

Inasmuch as we get these carbohydrates from the 
vegetable kingdom, and because the housewife must 
furnish them combined with other principles as in 
bread and other things made of flour, and in various 
dishes in which vegetables are combined with meat. 



Digestibility of Vegetable Foods. 77 

milk, eggs, etc., we will cease speaking of carbohy- 
drates as such, and will give a few hints as to how to 
prepare Tegetable foods so that we can get the most 
out of them, bearing in mind, however, what has been 
said about not following out this principle to the ex- 
tent of weakening the bowels. 
To what extent This leads us, first, to examine the 

digested. general digestibility of the whole class 

of vegetable foods; meaning by this, not the rapid- 
ity nor the ease, but the extent to which the nutritive 
principle is yielded up to us. It has been found that, 
as tisually prepared, vegetable foods give up to us 
from i to ^ less of their nutrients than do animal 
foods, and especially is this true of those that are rich 
in proteids. To illustrate: a workman eats as part 
of his dinner a dish of bQiled beans, but though he 
rightly considers that he has been eating a nourishing 
dish, he has really absorbed only 60^ of the nitrogen- 
ous substances contained in it, the other 40^ passing 
from him unused because of its intimate connection 
with the cellulose; at least this was the case with 
Prof. Striimpell who records the result of personal 
experiments on the digestibility of beans cooked whole. 
Now this workman digested of the meat part of his 
dinner 97^^, and this comparison shows how the 
tougher kinds of cellulose interfere with the absorp- 
tion of the food matters which they enclose. 

The starch part of vegetable food we seem to get 
out much better than the proteid part, even with our 
ordinary methods of cooking; thus out of cooked 
rice we get almost 99^ of the starch, but only 80^ of 
what proteid it contains; flour in the form of noodles 



78 The Shady Side of Vegetable Diet. 

and macaroni yields up 98^^ of its starch and 80^ of 
its albumen, — in the form of bread a little less of each. 
The potato will give us only 75^ of what little pro- 
teid it contains, but as high as 93.5^ of its starch. 

Although the starch-containing foods 
much starch are cheap and although they yield up a 
in e le . gQQ^ pgp gg^t ^f ^^jg nutritive princi- 
ple, they must not be used to excess for the f oUowing 
reason. Starch must first be turned into sugar by our 
digestive juices before it can be taken up into the 
blood, and if the stomach is given more at a time 
than it can master, certain fermentations may take 
place, and digestion be influenced. The best author- 
ities say that without doubt the continued and severe 
diarrheas of small children are due to the fermenta- 
tion of starch foods for which their digestive organs 
are not yet ready. 

These fermentations, the irritating action on the 
bowels of too much cellulose, and the loss of a good 
deal of proteid substance connected with it form the 
shady side of a vegetable diet. Even the ox with his 
many stomachs gets out of grass and unchopped hay 
only 60^ of the proteid and 50^ of the fat contained 
in it. 

VEGETABLE PKOTEIDS. 

Even in our part of the world two thirds of the 
proteid food of most people is taken from the vege- 
table kingdom, and in order to choose our food prof- 
itably, we must know where to look for vegetable 
proteids, and how to fit them for eating. Here the 
cereals and the legumes are our friends, the former 
furnishing from 7 to 14j^ in their dried state, the lat- 



Grains. 79 

ter giving the astonishing figure of 30 to 24j^; or as 
much as meat. 

QKAIN-S. 

The cereals or grains, though containing much less 
proteid than the legumes, are more valuable to us 
because of their excellent taste, their availability to 
the cook and the readiness with which when ground 
they yield us their nutrients. 

Since the grains are such important foods, a table 
is appended showing the average richness in food 
principles of those in common use among us. We 
find that different analyses of the same grain differ 
greatly from one other, barley for instance, ranging 
from 8 to 18^ in its proteid, and this may account for 
a certain grain being popular in one country and not 
in another. 

In our country we are especially fortunate in the 

cheapness and excellence of at least two of the grains. 

Wheat and In- Wheat and Indian Corn. The first 

dian Corn. has of course much higher food value, 

but the latter is so cheap and can be so easily cooked 

that it is a blessing to the poor. The large per cent 

of both proteids and fat in oats is to be 

noted, justifying as it does, the high 

esteem in which they are now held among us. At the 

other extreme is rice, the poorest of the 

grains in both these principles, but its 

almost perfect digestibility renders it very useful. 



80 Analysis of Grains. 

rr^ ■ 0) p CD 

Analysis of % 2 ^ a S 5 

Grains. o fa St3 la- = 

^ ^ ^ % % 

Fine Wheat Plour 10. 1.0 75.2 13. 0.3 

Rye Flour 11.5 2. 69.5 14. l.o 

Barley Grits 11. 1.5 71.5 15. 0.5 

Oat Grits 14.5 6.0 65. 10. 2.5 

Buckwheat Flour 9.5 3. 73.5 14. 1. 
Corn or Maize 

Flour 10.15 4.80 68.45 14. 3.6 

Rice Grains 8. 1. 76.5 13. 0.5 

SUGARS. 

Most people would class sugar among the luxuries, 
and indeed we are best acquainted with it in those- 
combinations with fruit, eggs, butter, and yarious 
flavoring matters, which, as puddings, pies, cakes, 
custards, etc., make up our dessert list. 

Our first concern, howeyer, is with its 
food value. It gives us the high figure 
of 99^ of the third food principle,— ^Carbohydrates. 
That is, it must be put in the list with bread and it 
can be used to a certain extent instead of bread and 
other starch foods. Moreover, it is especially fitted 
for a food in cases where nourishment is needed im- 
mediately, as it is digested or absorbed into the sys- 
tem almost as quickly as water and without taxing 
the digestive organs, and perhaps on this account is its 
consumption so great in our country; we live fast, 
and we want our nutriment in a condensed form. 

But on account of its cost and because we are able 



Sugars. 81 

to take only a moderate amount at a time, sugar can- 
not, to any great extent, take the place of the 
starches; we are to value it chiefly for the relish it 
gives to other foods. As a flavor, it is 
of the greatest value, but if we prize 
variety we are certainly accustomed to the taste of 
sugar in too many dishes, as in rice, custards, and 
various egg and bread dishes, which the foreigner 
would sometimes salt instead of sweeten, and eat with 
his meat instead of at the end of the meal. 

"We would suggest that when we do use sugar, as in 
a pudding, for instance, that we use less of it than we 
are accustomed to do, for in that case we could eat 
enough of a dish so flavored to make it furnish more 
of the real substance of a meal. 

BEANS, PEAS AND LENTILS. 

Per cent of Pro- Look again at tW remarkable per 
cent of proteid given by this class of 
vegetables. Beans and peas, 23^, Lentils, 25^, while 
beef gives on the average only from 17 to 21^. By peo- 
ple who from choice or necessity live principally on 
vegetables, the legumes have always been largely used; 
their consumption is extensive in India, China, and 
in all of Europe. 

To be sure, the quality of the proteid is not the 
same as in meat, — it is less stimulating and palatable, 
and perhaps in other ways inferior, but the proteid 
needs of the body can be answered by it, and that is 
a very important item when the question is one of 

economy. 

The impression that dried beans and 
iges 1 1 y. p^^^ ^^^ "hearty" food, fitted for out- 



82 Peas, Beans and Lentils. 

door workers rather than for less yigorous people or 
those of sedentary habits, seems justified by the fact 
that these yegetables contain an unusually large per 
cent of cellulose of the tougher sort 
■which requires a long continued appli- 
cation of heat to free it from the proteid and starch 
of the vegetable ; indeed, unless it is broken fine or 
ground into flour, cooking, howcYer long continued, 
will be insufiicient. We have seen that Prof. Striim- 
pell digested only 40^ of the proteid of beans cooked 
in the ordinary way, but when they were ground to 
flour and baked he digested 91.8^ The fact is, we 

could cook and eat our wheat whole 
Bean Hour. , -i ;i 

much more easily than we can our 

beans, and yet bean flour is not in the market, if we 
except the "prepared" sort in small, expensive pack- 
ages. It seems that the best we can do is to cook 
beans well and sieve them; in that way we free them 
from the skins at least. 

The dried and split pea, though as 
^ ■ valuable as the bean and already freed 

from the skin, is not as much used among us ; it 
should be more employed in soups and as a vegetable. 
Lentils a few years ago were to be found only in 
large cities ; now they are more easily attainable. 
Their food value, as we have seen, is still greater than 
that of beans and peas, but the taste is not as agree- 
able until one becomes accustomed to it. An eco- 
nomist cannot afford to neglect the legume family. 

POTATOES. 

We in our country need not feel as bitter against 



Potatoes. iS3 

die potato as do the scientists of Europe, for we are 
not obliged to use it to excess, andconsidering its cheap- 
ness and availability it is for us a good Tegetable and on 
these accounts, though it makes a poor enough show- 
ing as to food value, we must rank it next to the bean 
in importance. It has only 2^ of proteids, no- fat and 
only 20. 7^ carbohydrates, and yet since it can be pre- 
pared in so many ways and we never tire of its mild 
flavor, it will doubtless continue to come upon our 
tables more frequently than any other vegetable. 
But every day or twice a day, in large amounts, is far 
too often; indeed those who use it to this extent must 
be ignorant of its relatively low food value. The 
quality of the potato is of great importance and none 
but the best should be used. It should be a mealy 
variety and perfectly ripe. 

GAEDEN TBGETABLBS. 

Green vegetables, excepting the pea and bean, are 
not to be valued chiefly for what we can reckon up 
in them of proteids, fats and carbohydrates, for the 
amount is very small. Except in the height of the 
season they must be looked on as luxuries, but we will 
buy them as often as we can afford them. In quan- 
tities sufficient to flavor soups and stews they can 
always be afforded, and in this way should be freely 
used, carrots, celery, parsnips, and tomatoes, for 
example. 

FRUITS. 

Our markets offfl' us a great variety of fine fruits, 
and many of them are cheap in their season; apples 
in the fall are within the reach of the very poorest. 



84 Fruits. 

Fresh fruits have a large per cent of water, as 
high as 89^ in the orange, and few fruits have less 
than 80^. Their food value is mainly in the form of 
sugar, apples giving us on an average 7.7^, grapes, 
14.3^; of proteids, the amount does not, with the 
single exception of the strawberry, reach 1^; but 
fruits are veiy useful to us on account of their flavor, 
due to various aromatic bodies, fruit acids and sugar. 
The apple is especially valuable on account of its 
cheapness and fine keeping qualities^ and is used in a 
variety of ways by the cook to give a relish to plain 
materials. Although our largest use of them is in 
sweet dishes, they are perhaps quite as valuable used 
without sugar; they may be fried in slices and eaten' 
with fat meat, as bacon or sausage, or they may be 
used to stuff a fowl. 

Fruit is not for all people easy of digestion if eaten 
in considerable quantities, and this is partly on ac- 
count of its relatively large per cent of woody fibre, 
and also, especially when not quite ripe, because of 
the acids and pectose contained in them. Huckle- 
berries have 12^ woody fibre, apples only 2^ including 
the seeds and skin. 

The importance of dried fruits as food is not well 
enough understood. Fruit loses in drying a large 
portion of its water, leaving its nutritive parts in 
more condensed form for our use; dried apples are 
very near to bread in the per cent of nutrients they 
offer, and the dried pear may be called the date of Ger- 
many, so general is its use. Witl^ us this fruit is too 
expensive, but in parts of Germany the writer has 
seen dried pears commonly exposed for sale by the 



Cooking of Grains. 85 

barrel like beans; they are eaten in great quantities by 
the common people, who seem to digest them and 
dried apples without any trouble, accustomed as their 
stomachs are to a rye bread and vegetable diet. 
These dried fruits are made into a variety of dishes 
with meats, with potatoes and with beans and also 
with noodles and macaroni. 

COOKING OF GRAINS. 

The grains may be cooked whole, coarsely ground, 
as grits, and finely ground, as flour. 
Gi-ains cooked -^U these grains can be cooked whole 
whole. but it is seldom done, because of the 

length of time required. Only rice and barley are 
generally so cooked. 

In cooking rice, the aim should be to 
ice. oooo . jja,ve the grains distinct from each other, 
soft, dry and mealy. 

This is the best way. Add to the rice 

™ ■ three times its bulk of water, salt well,. 

put in a covered dish in a steamer and steam J hour. 

Or, the rice may be soaked over night, and it will then 

steam soft in twenty minutes. 

Put the rice into a large quantity of 
Boned. boiling water, add one teaspoon salt to 

each cupful of rice; boil fast, stirring occasionally. 
Drain, dry out a little and keep warm by covering 
with a cloth, as is done with potatoes. Save the 
water poured off for soup. 

Its best use is as a vegetable with 
Kice. To use. ^^^^^ g^.^^g ^^ ^ ^^-^^^^ ^^g^ neutral 

character, it can, like bread, be made into an endless 



86 Cooking of Grits. 

number of dishes to be eaten with meats, or into des- 
sert dishes, with sugar, fruits, etc. For rice omelette 
(see page 60), rice pudding (see pages 107 and 110). 

Grated cheese is a good addition to rice, supplying 
its lack of proteids and fat. 

Pearl barley Soak all night and boil soft in salted 

boiled. water. It may also be steamed. Use 

as a thickening for soups, or like rice, as a vegeta- 
ble, or as a breakfast dish with sugar and milk. 

It is exoellent mixed with its bulk of 

With prunes. . , .,■,,-, 

stewed prunes; — pour OTer it melted 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. 

GRAIBTS, COAKSBLT GROUND, OK GEITS. 

^These are better adapted to simple cookery than 
are fine flours, since to make them eatable it is only 
necessary to cook them soft in water. The grains 
used in this way among us are cracked wheat, farina or 
wheat grits, oatmeal, hominy and com meal, and they 
are all cooked in nearly the same way. 

MUSHES. 

Wheat, oat and j^^g 3,3 hours. This time maybe 
shortened by soaking the grits some 
hours in water. Oatmeal and corn cannot be oyer- 
cooked. 

Amount of Water. They all, except corn, absorb 
from three to four times their bulk of water; corn, a 
little orer twice. 

Salt. One teaspoonful to one cupful of grits. 

Method of cooking. Steaming is best, as there is 
then no danger of burning or of making the mush 



Mushes. S? 

pasty by stirring. Put the grits and four times their 
bulk of water into a double boiler or into a dish and 
set the dish into a steamer, or use a tin pail with 
tight cover, and set in a kettle of water; — any way to 
keep it at boiling heat without burning. 
Uses for cold Porridge. Stir any cold cooked mush 
mushes. smooth with half water and half milk 

to the consistency of porridge. Add a little salt and 
boil up. Sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg may be 
added as flavor. Of course porridges can be also 
made of the uncooked grits, they are simply very thin 
mnshes. 

Pancakes. 1 cup of cold oatmeal, hominy or corn 
mush, 2 cups flour, ^ pint of milk, ^ teaspoon salt, 
and 1 egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder or 1 of soda and 
3 of cream of tartar. Or, sour milk may be used with 1 
teaspoon soda, omitting the cream of tartar. These 
mushes will differ a little in thickness, and therefore 
more or less flour may be needed. Bake on griddle. 

Muffins. The same mixture as above, with the 
addition of a little more flour. Bake in muffin rings. 

To Fry. For this, only corn mush and hominy 
are commonly used. When cooking, add a handful 
of wheat flour to the mush to make it stifEer. Pack 
while warm into a square mould and when cold cut in 
slices and fry slowly to a nice brown on a griddle with 
a little fat. Or, the slices may be dipped into beaten 
egg, then into bread crumbs, and fried in boiling fat. 

COEN FLOUE. 

There is one fine flour that can be treated in the 
same way as the coarsely ground, — that made from 



'88 Corn and Graham Flour. " 

Indian corn. Perhaps on account of its larger 
per cent of fat and because little of its albumen is 
in the form of gluten, it does not form into a sticky 
paste as does wheat flour, but can be mixed with water 
only and then boiled or baked into digestible and 
good tasting food, and this is one thing that makes 
corn so valuable a grain to people like the negroes of 
the southern states, whose cooking apparatus is of the 
most primitive sort. Corn meal has one peculiarity, — 
it quickly sours and should be kept no longer than a 
week. The kiln-dried meal, however, keeps indefinite- 
ly, and is now largely used, but is not as sweet as the 
freshly ground. The name " meal " seems to be used 
for both the fine and coarsely ground. 

This, whether made from fine or 

Corn mush. , , . ■,■,■,■■, 

coarsely ground corn, is cooked like 
grits. See page 86. 

Hoe cake or corn 1 quart Indian meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 
pone. Moisten to a dough with boiling waiter 

or milk; let it stand a few hours till it shows air 
bubbles on the surface, then make into thick cakes 
and bake in the oven, or cut in slices and fry in pork 
fat on a griddle. Break, not cut, and eat hot. 

GRAHAM ELOUE. 

This preparation of wheat, though finely ground, 
may be treated somewhat like grits, and a bread may 
be made of it with the addition of water only which 
will be light and palatable. The secret of success is 
in having the oven very hot. 

Mix salted graham flour with cold 
water to a batter thick enough to drop, 
then put it into iron forms already heated, and bake 
in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes. 



Fine Wheat Flour. 89 

FINE WHEAT FLOUR. 

Flour may be cooked, of course, in boiling water 
or milk, and in this way is used to thicken gravies or 
soups, and also to make a sort of mush with milk 
and eggs. See " Minute Pudding," page 107. 

The principle of cooking it in this case difEers not 
at all from the cooking of a potato; in both cases the 
starch granules soak up the hot water till they burst 
their cellulose walls. But if we were to try to hake 
flour when wet up into a thick paste, we would find it, 
in the first place, difficult to accomplish, the heat being 
very slowly communicated from the surface to the 
interior, and when done, we would have only a tough 
indigestible mass. There is, however, one way of 
preparing such a paste for cooking, which we will con- 
sider before treating the " raising " of flour for bread. 
Flour dough is in this case kneaded hard, rolled thin 
and then dried. So treated we know it in the form of 

MACARONI AND NOODLES. 

Macaroni. ^ trade article extensively used 

abroad where the best kinds cost only ten to twelve 
cents a pound, and the broken or imperfect sticks 
not more than seven. It is a valuable article of food, 
but its use will not become extensive among us while 
it is so dear. 

Like the fine flour of which it is principally com- 
posed it is deficient in fat, and must be eaten with 
the addition of butter, cheese or milk. 

How cooked. Put into plenty of salted boiling 
watery, and boil twenty or thirty minutes, till it is 
perfectly tender (if old it takes longer to cook), 
8 



90 Macaroni and Noodles. 

Drain carefully, pouring it into a cullender or lifting 
out with a skimmer. 

1st. ( Best. ) Put it in the dish in 
layers with grated cheese and butter. 
2d. Serve with milk and butter sauce. 
3d. Add two beaten eggs to the milk and butter 
sauce. 

Like bread and rice, macaroni when 

cooked is made into a great number of 

dishes ; it is added to soups, it is mixed with meat in 

ragouts, and it is cooked with certain yegetables, as 

tomatoes. 

Arrange the macaroni in a pudding 

With Tomatoes. - . , . , . , , j. j i j 

dish m layers with grated cheese and 
stewed tomatoes. Brown in the oven. 

This is also a trade article, but that 
of home manufacture is much better. 
It may be called one of the German national dishes, 
so extensive is its use among that people, with whom 
it often constitutes the main dish of a meal without 
meat. 

Ingredients. 3 eggs, 8 tablespoons milk or water, 
1 teaspoon salt, and flour. 

To make. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
put in the other ingredients and work to a stiff 
dough, then cut in 4 strips, knead each till fine grained, 
roll out as thin as possible and lay the sheet out to 
dry. When all are rolled begin with the first, cut it 
into 4 equal pieces, lay the pieces together and shave 
off very fine as you would cabbage, pick the shavings 
apart with floured hands and let them dry a little. 

To use. Boil them a few at a time in salted water 



Bread Making. 91 

taking them out with a skimmer and keeping them 
warm. Strew over them bread crumbs fried in but- 
ter or use like macaroni. (See page 90.) 

These noodles will keep indefinitely when dried 
hard, therefore when eggs are cheap they may be 
made and laid up for the winter. The water in which 
they are boiled is the basis of Noodle Soup; it needs 
only the addition of a little butter, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley and a few of the cooked noodles. 

Experimenters have proved that flour in the form 
of noodles and macaroni is more perfectly digested 
than even in bread. 

BEBAD MAKING. 

Principles In- go far we have used in the cooking 

of flour no other principle than the 
simple application of water and heat. We must now 
consider how fine flour is to be made into what is 
known as bread. As before said, the particles easily 
pack together when wet into a pasty dough which, if 
so baked, would defy mastication and digestion. We 
must contrive in some way to separate these flour 
particles by forcing between them air or some other 
gas, so as to present as large a surface as possible to 
the action of the digestive juices and this may be done 
1st, By surrounding these particles by fat, as in mak- 
ing pie-crust; 3d, By the air contained in beaten 
egg; 3d, By forcing carbonic acid gas through the 
mass by the action of ( a ) yeast, or ( 5 ) of bi-carbo- 
nate of soda acting on some acid. 

FLOUE EAISED WITH FAT. 

Pie-crust. The familiar example of this method 

is pie-crust, where a paste of water and flour is re- 



92 Piecrust and Egg-Raised Breads. 

peatedly rolled and spread with some fat, as lard, until 
the paste is in paper-thick layers with the fat between. 
When baked, the air expands and separates the flour 
particles, a true lightness being the result. 

So much fat must be employed to produce this re- 
sult, however, that the use of this method will of course 
be limited to the construction of dessert dishes, of 
which not much is eaten at once. 

A flour rich in starch is better for this purpose 
than a gluten flour. 

FLOUE KAISED WITH EGG. 

The next most simple method of cooking flne flour, 
is to introduce between its particles the air adherent 
to beaten egg, and by the immediate application of 
heat to expand the air and stiffen the mass thus ae- 
rated. By this method none of the food principle 
is wasted as when yeast is used, nor is a chemical salt 
left in the dough as in the action of soda, but the 
method is expensive and is limited in its use to what 
may be called fancy breads and cakes. 

We have selected the following mixture as the 
foundation for egg breads; of course others are pos- 
sible: 

Foundation of 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon but- 
egg breads. ter and 1 teaspoon salt. 

This mixture is then thickened with any kind of 
flour, or with part flour and part bread, boiled rice, 
boiled hominy or corn mush. 

To mix. First beat the eggs very light, whites and 
yolks separately, then the yolks smoothly with the 
flour and milk, stir the whites in at last very lightly 



Yeast Breads. 93 

and bake immediately. The eggs must be beaten 
very light, and the batter just of good pouring con- 
sistency, thinner than if no eggs were used. 
Wheat, Graham Add to above foundation mixture a 
^ cakes. " scant pint of either of these flours. 
„ , ^ „. Add to the foundation mixture one 

Cooked Kice, 

Hominy or cup of flour and twocupsof boiled nee, 

Corn Mush hominy or corn mush ( or the propor- 
Pancakes. . \ r c 

tions may be reversed ). Bake in small, 

rather thick cakes. If they stick to the griddle add 
a little more flour. 

Add to the foundation mixture 1 cup 
flour and 2 cups bread crumbs that 
have been soaked soft in milk or water and mashed 
smooth. The batter should be rather thick. Bake 
in small cakes adding more flour if they stick. 
Muffins and MufiBns and waffles of all sorts are 

Waffles. made like pancakes, but a little stiffer 

with flour. 

Other egg-raised doughs, mixed in 

other egg doughs. i. j. j-ji j. j.- ^ 

somewhat dmerent proportions and 
differently cooked, as fritters, sponge cakes and bat- 
ter puddings, will be found in another section. 

ELOUE RAISED WITH CAEBONIC ACID GAS. 

This is brought about by (a) the growth of the 
yeast plant or by the action ( 5 ) of bicarbonate of soda 
on some acid. Both of these methods have their ad- 
vantages. 

The action of the yeast plant when 

brought into contact with flour and 
water is to develop carbon dioxide gas and alcohol. 
This it does at the expense of the little sugar already 



94 White Bread. 

in the flour, but still more at the expense of that 
which it manufactures out of the starch, or as some 
say, out of the gluten. The chemist ascertains this 
loss of nutritive matter to be as high as 1^, and Lie- 
big, who was strongly opposed to this method of 
bread raising, estimated that 40,000 people might be 
fed on the flour that was wasted in this way in Ger- 
many alone. But notwithstanding this waste, the 
method, on account of its convenience and the good 
taste it gives to bread, still holds its ground. 

The time cannot be far distant when the baker will 
furnish us better and cheaper bread than we can 
make in our own kitchens. This has long been the 
case on the continent of Europe, but for some reason 
we have not yet reached that point in civilization 
and the housekeeper must still learn this art and 
practice it, for good bread is a necessity. 

The best flour is, even for the poor. 

Quality of flour. , , , j. -j. i j i. j. 

the cheapest, as it makes more and bet- 
ter bread to the pound. There should always be two 
kinds kept on hand; the yellowish, high-priced gluten 
flour for bread making, and the whiter, cheaper sort 
for pastry, cake and thickenings. 

Ko recipe for making yeast will be given, as the com- 
pressed yeast is so much better than the house-wife 
can make, and is now obtainable even in small towns. 
Proportions. 1 quart warm water, 

2^ qts. (about) of flour, 1 tablespoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon or one cake of compressed yeast, or 
^ cup liquid yeast. The proportions of flour and 
water differ according to the quality of the flour, the 
gluten flours taking up much more water than the 
starch flours. 



White Bread. 95 

Put the flour and salt into your bread pan and 
make a hole in the middle, then pour in gradually the 
water in which the yeast has been dissolved, mixing 
as you pour with your hand or with a spoon. As 
soon as the mass will hold together, take it out on a 
moulding board and with floured hands work it grad- 
ually into a tender dough, using as little flour as possi- 
ble, for "the dough must remain as soft as can be 
handled. This first moulding should take from 15 
to 20 minutes. Then let the bread rise in a warm 
place ; the yeast plant can live in a temperature 
ranging from 30° to 170° P. but thrives best at about 
72°. Cover with a cloth and in winter keep by a warm 
stove. If made with compressed yeast, the dough will 
rise the first time in an hour. Take it at its first 
lightness, before it begins to sink back (it should be 
like a honeycomb all through, and double or treble 
its original bulk), put it on your moulding board, or 
^ of it at a time, and mould it well until it is fine 
and tender again. Add no flour this time but keep 
the hands moist with warm water or milk or with 
lard. Divide into loaves — small ones — which should 
only half fill the greased tins, and set again to rise, 
keeping it at the same temperature and letting it get 
very light again. Flour that is rich in gluten requires 
longer to rise than that containing more starch. 

It is difiBcult to give directions about 
^^ ' ■ the heat of the oven. One housekeeper 
says "hot enough so that you can hold your hand in 
till you count twelve," another, "until you can count 
thirty," and the puzzled novice can only inquire 
" how fast do you count?" The oven must be hot 



96 White Bread. 

enough to brown the bread lightly in ten minutes, 
and to bake a small loaf in from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. 

If more convenient, a bread sponge 

Additional facts. , , , r. , ■ ■ i n i 

may be made at nrst with the water, 
yeast, and part of the flour, and when light, the rest 
of the flour added. It hastens the process a little. 
How many times Do not let the bread rise more than 

shall bread rise? twice; it loses each time some of its 
nutritive qualities. Bread raised once is coarse of 
grain but sweet to the taste. 
To keep bread Mould it harder than you do bread 

long. that is to be eaten soon. 

Dough that has Set the bread pan immediately into 

become chiued. a larger one filled with warm water and 
as the water cools replace with warm until the dough 
begins to rise again. 
Dough raised du- This method is often convenient, and 

ring the night, does very well if slower yeast is used, 
but bread is better to be raised quickly with com- 
pressed yeast. If the latter is used a forenoon is suf- 
ficient for the process of making and baking. 
To delay the -^°^ Convenience, as to make warm 

baking of bread biscuits for supper, rising dough may 

dough. ^g j^gp^ ^^ ^ standstill for hours with- 

out injury at a temperature of about 50°, as in a cel- 
lar, and an hour before baking brought into a warm 
room to finish the rising process. 

BREADS FROM OTHER ELOURS. 

Graham bread. Graham bread is made like white 

bread using two parts graham to one 

of white flour, or any other- proportion liked, but it 



Brown Breads. 97 

should be mixed very soft. A little sugar and fat 
should be added, 1 tablespoon lard or beef fat and 2 
tablespoons sugar or molasses. Bake slower and long- 
er than white bread. 

The usual and most conyenient way of making 
graham bread is to mix the flour and other ingredi- 
ents with some of the white sponge on baking day. 

Eye bread is made exactly as is bread 
ye rea . from wheat flour, but in this country 
4 parts rye, 1 part corn meal, and a handful of wheat 
flour are generally used. It must bake much longer 
— two to three hours in a slow oven. It is still better 
steamed the first two hours and baked the third. 

Corn bread is made of 3 parts corn 
meal to 1 of wheat flour, same quantity 
of yeast and salt as for white bread, and an addition 
of 2 tablespoons lard or beef fat and two tablespoons 
sugar. It is only to be stirred, not moulded, and need 
rise but once. 

BISCUITS, BUKS, ETC. 

Breakfast rolls or These are "little breads" of either 
white or graham flour. Make part of 
the dough out into little balls which will rise more 
quickly and bake in a shorter time, a little butter 
or lard, one tablespoon to a quart of dough being 
generally moulded with it. 

When called "Breakfast Rolls" the dough is made 
out into flat round cakes, the top buttered and folded 
over not quite in the middle. 

Milk rolls are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk instead of water; they 
are very tender and delicate. 
9 



98 Biscuit, Suns, Etc. 

Wheat gems or One modification in the baking of 
drop biscuits, dough is Worthy of mention. Use about 
a cap more milk in Mixing the receipt for bread 
given above, so that the dough will just drop from a 
spoon and then bake in forms in the oven, or on a slow 
griddle. 

These are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk and with the addition 
of 4 eggs and 1 cup of butter to a quart of milk. 
Form, long and high. 

other uses for There are many uses for the above 
rusk dough, dough. When made out into biscuit 
shape it may be steamed and eaten as a simple pud- 
ding with fruit, or, made into tiny balls and cooked, 
when light, in a meat stew, the dish being then 
called a pot-pie. 

These are like Rusks (above) plus 2 

Buns, plain. . 

cups of sugar and a little spice, say, -J 
teaspoon nutmeg. EoU the dough out -J inch thick, 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let it rise till very 
light, which will take some time on account of the 
sugar. 

To plain buns add 1 cup India cur- 
rants, washed, dried and floured, or 
raisins cut in bits. 

Prom the recipe for Buns, as above, 

Baised Calte. , . , ,^ , ,' ^ ' 

a plain and good cake may be made by 
using 1 pint instead of 1 quart of milk to the given 
quantity of eggs, butter and sugar, and adding a lit- 
tle more fruit. Bake in a ribbed pudding dish 
which has been thickly buttered, and in the butter, 
blanched almonds arranged in rows. 



Yeast Pancakes. 99 

Bun dough may also be fried in fat. 

Doughnuts. J 1 X 

as doughnuts. 
For a fine brown To give a fine crust to biscuit or 
crust. buns: Brush over before baking, with a 

feather dipped in one of these mixtures: one teaspoon 
of molasses and milk, two teaspoons of sugar and 
milk, or three teaspoons sugar and the white of an 

egg- 
To show the true relation of the above doughs to 
each other, the quantity has been kept the same as 
for bread dough, but one-half the given quantity 
of cake, buns or biscuit would be enough for a large 
family. 

Any of the above doughs can be 

To steam bread. ii, , • ■ , -, v ■, t ■ 

cooked by steaming instead oi baking, 
when more convenient. They will of course lack the 
brown crust, but may afterward be dried or browned 
in the oven. A somewhat longer time is required 
for steaming than for baking. 

YEAST BREADS — THIK. 

Eaised Pancakes. The materials for these are, 1 qt. milk, 

Wheat, Graham .„ , , Ti^i i_i 

and Corn. OT milk and water, a little more than a 
qt. of flour, 1 tablespoon compressed 
yeast or i cup liquid yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon butter; the flour may be wheat flour, wheat 
and graham mixed, or wheat and corn mixed, or 
part bread crumbs may be mixed with the flour. 
Make and raise like bread sponge. It is better they 
should be too thick than too thin, as milk may be 
added to thin them after they are light, but raw flour 
added at that time spoils them. 



100 Soda Raised Breads. 

Pancakes with -^-dd to tlie above batter just before 
e&gs. baking, 1, 3 or 3 eggs, yolks and whites 

Muffins and beaten separately. Use in this case some- 
waffles. ^hat less flour. 

These can be made of either of the above pancake 
batters, with 1 cup to 1 pt. more fllour. 

BUCKWHEAT FLO UK. 

Buckwheat flour makes bread that is relished by 
those accustomed to its somewhat peculiar taste, but 
in this country it is used only in pancakes. 
Buckwheat Pan- 1 qt. buckwheat flour, 1 teaspoon 
eakea. gait, 1 cup or less of corn meal scalded 
in a little water, 2 teaspoons molasses ( to make them 
brown — a little buttermilk answers the same pur- 
pose), 1 tablespoon compressed yeast, 1 qt. warm 
water, or enough to make a thin batter. Let rise 
over night. 

FLOUE RAISED WITH SODA. 

Soda. On the interaction of bicarbonate of 

soda and different acids, by which carbonic acid gas 
is liberated is based a common method of raising 
doughs. It wastes none of the flour, as does yeast, 
but it has its own disadvantages. The product of 
these chemicals acting on each other is a salt which 
is left in the bread; hydrochloric acid acted on by 
soda gives common salt, to which there could be no 
objection, but this method is not easily used in the 
household, and the salts left by other acids, as the lac- 
tic acid of milk when acted on by bicarbonate of soda, 
we get enough of in other dishes. Whether reliable 
experiments have been made as to the comparative 



Soda Raised Breads. 101 

digestibility of breads raised with soda and those 
raised with yeast the writer does not know, but there 
is a wide-spread impression that the former should 
be eaten only occasionally, and it is certain that we 
tire of them sooner than of yeast breads. Besides, 
which is of importance to one who must economize in 
milk, eggs, &c., better materials must be used with 
soda than with yeast to produce an equally rich tasting 
bread or cake. 

METHODS. 

We have three methods of using bicarbonate of 
soda to raise flour; by its action on 

1. The acid contained in sour milk, from 1 to 3 
teaspoons of soda being used to a quart of milk. 

2. On cream of tartar, the proportions being 1 tea- 
spoon soda to 2 of cream of tartar to a quart of flour. 

3. On tartaric or other acids already mixed with it 
in a baking powder and to be used according to di- 
rections on the package, or, one may say in general, 
that three teaspoons of the powder go to every quart 

of flour. 

The secret of success in making soda 
secret of Success. ^^.^^^ breads consists in ( 1 ) the per- 
fect mixing of the soda and cream of tartar or the 
baking powder, with the flour, cooks who are par- 
ticular sieving these ingredients five times. In this 
connection we cannot urge too strongly that each 
housewife should make and keep on hand this pre- 
pared flour; in a leisure time she can measure, sieve 
and mix it, and she has then in making biscuit or cake, 
only to chop in the butter, add the milk and eggs 
and it is done. 



102 Soda Biscuits. 

2. In light mixing of the shortening with the flour; 
this is best accomplished with a chopping knife. 

3. In a rapid completion of the work after the two 
raising agencies have become wet and begun to work, 
and no delay in baking when all is ready. 

Ingredients. 1 qt. of flour, 1 tea- 

Soda Biscuits. i^ ■< ^ i i i ti i j 

spoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, or but- 
ter and lard, or butber and suet, 1 scant pint sweet 
milk or water with 1 teaspoon soda and two of cream 
of tartar, or three teaspoons of baking powder; or, 1 
scant pint sour milk with 1 teaspoon soda and 1 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar; if the milk be Tery sour omit 
the cream of tartar. 

To make. In a chopping bowl stir all well together 
except the shortening and milk, then chop in the 
shortening which should be cold and hard, till all is 
fine and well mixed. Now add the milk a little at a 
time, still mixing with the chopping knife. Take 
out on the moulding board and roll out with as little 
mixing as possible. 

This dough is often made richer, even 1 cup of 
butter to 1 qt. of flour being used, but so much as 
this can only be considered extravagant and un- 
healthful. 

To use this dough. Eoll 1 in. thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter and bake. To 
be eaten warm with butter. 

As Graham Bis- Use three parts graham flour to one 
cults. of wheat and treat in same manner. 

Roll -J in. thick, fit into jelly cake 

As Short Cake. , . t n i ttt-i ■ i i i 

tins and bake. When mceJy browned, 
split and butter and pile up like toast. 
For fruit short cake (see pages 108 and 109.) 



Soda Raised Pancakes. 103 

SODA BREAD OS COKN MEAL. 

Corn Bread, or 1 Clip sweet milk, 1 cup sour or but- 
johnaycake. termilk, or both of sour milk, 1 tea- 
1. Piam. spoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 table- 

spoon butter or suet or lard, 3 cups Indian meal, and 

1 of wheat flour, or all of Indian meal. Pour into a 
tin and bake 40 minutes. 

2 Richer ^^® Same with an egg and ^ cup sugar 

added. 
^ ' ■ No. 1, with the addition of 3 eggs, ^ 

cup sugar and J cup butter, 1 cup meal being omitted. 

SODA RAISED BREAD— THIN. 

Pancakes without Eggs. 
1. Of Wheat Ingredients. 1 qt. flour, 1 teaspoon 

salt, and 1 scant qt. sour milk, with 3 
level teaspoons soda and the same of cream of tartar 
unless the milk is very sour, when omit the cream of 
tartar. Sweet milk can also be used with 1 teaspoon 
soda and 2 of cream of tartar, or 3 of baking powder. 

To make. Mix the salt and cream of tartar if used, 
with the flour. Make a hole in the middle and pour 
in the milk gradually, stirring with a spoon till smooth. 
Then beat hard for 5 minutes, or till it is bubbly. Add 
the soda dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, and bake 
immediately on a very hot griddle. 

Unless well beaten before the soda is added, these 
pancakes without eggs are not a success. 

If made with sour milk they will be still better, if 
when mixed ( without the soda, of course ) the batter 
is left to stand twelve or even twenty-four hours. 



104 Soda Raised Pancakes. 

Just before using add the soda dissolved in a little 
hot water. 

2. Of Graham Are made in the same way, 1 part 

Flour. being of white flour and 3 parts graham. 

3. Of Corn ^^ above, with corn meal instead of 

Meal. graham. 

Pancalces with Eggs. 
Ingredients. To any of the 3 preceding recipes add 
3 or 3 eggs, beating yolks and whites separately. 

Muffins and Waffles. 
Muffins and waffles of all kinds are the same as pan- 
cakes, made a little thicker and with the addition of 
1 tablespoon of butter. 

Fritters. 
For fritters, which should be next in order (see page 
113). 



USES FOE BEEAD. 



These are so numerous that the housekeeper need 

never fear the accumulation of stale bread, if she will 

only take care of it in time. Every day the bits left 

from meals and the dry ends of the loaf 

To Dry BrBSrd. 

must be dried hard in the oven and then 
put away in paper bags. If time allows, pare ofE the 
crusts, cut into cubes and dry separately to add to 
soups. 

This dried bread will keep for weeks or months — 
it must simply be kept clean and dry. In any recipe 
where bread-crumbs are called for, as bread pudding 
or bread omelet, use this dried bread, laying it first 
in cold water till it is soft, then pressing it dry in a 
towel and crumbling it lightly with the hand. 

Here are a few of the ways in which bread can be 
used. 

USES FOR BREAD Ilf SLICES. 

Toast. In dry toast, milk toast, and water 

toast, to be eaten as such and as a foundation for 
many other dishes. 

Fried toast — bread slices soaked in egg and milk, 
or water, and fried on a griddle with a little fat. (See 
page 60). Cold milk or water toast may be so used. 
Fritters. For Bread Fritters (see page 114). 

105 



106 Uses for Bread. 

Puddings. For bread and butter pudding (see page 

111). 

Stale bread may be cut in slices and 
steamed Bread. , , i i ±_ , i i 

steamed so as to taste sweet and good. 

Set the slices up on end in the steamer and steam 5 

or 10 minutes, then dry a little in an OTen. 

Bread Biscuits of all sorts, even when sev- 

Eebaked. eral days old, may be made nearly as 

good as when fresh, by wetting the tops and setting 

in a hot oven for about five minutes. A convenient 

way of having warm biscuits for breakfast. 

USES FOR CRUMBS OR DRIED BREAD, 

Soaked and crumbled as described on page 105 and 
use in bread dough instead of half the flour. 

In bread omelettes (see page 60). 

In meat balls for soups and stews (see page 127). 

In bread dressing. Pour enough hot water on dry 
bread to soften it and chop it not too fine ; season 
with chopped onion, herbs and suet or tried out fat. 
The addition of an egg is an improvement. Bake 
covered, about an hour, then uncover and brown. 
This mixture may also be used for stuffing a fowl, leg 
of mutton, &c. ; or it may be fried in spoonfuls on a 
griddle and eaten with a sweet sauce as the simplest 
form of pancakes. 

In bread pancakes (see page 93). 

In bread puddings (see pages 109, 110 and 111). 

For breading chops, croquettes, ^c, that are to be 
fried in boiling fat. 



SIMPLE SWEET DISHES. 



This department does not pretend to be complete, 
it simply aims to classify as many of the cheaper kinds 
as the ordinary family needs. These will generally be 
used as desserts but there is no reason why the main 
dish of the meal should not haye some sugar in it. I 
remember that in a simple pension in Thuringia, Ger- 
many, I once ate of a dinner consisting of a soup, a 
salad and one other dish, which we would call a bread 
pudding. I was helped bountifully to this main dish 
of the meal, I ate and was satisfied, for the materials 
were good and it was well made and delicately baked. 
The recipe will be found on page 110. 

MILK PUDDIKGS. 

Indian pudding. J qt. of milk, i cup com meal, 1 tea^ 
spoon salt, ^ cup chopped suet, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
i cup molasses. Bake covered for 3 hours in very 
slow oven and serve with sweet sauce. 
Swelled rice 1 1*- skim milk or 1 pt. full milk and 

puddingr. 1 pt. water, ^ cup rice, 3 tablespoons 

sugar, i teaspoon salt. Bake, slowly 2 hours covered, 
then uncover and brown. It will be a creamy mass 
and delicious in taste. Serve without sauce. Raisins 
may be added. 

Minute pudding Ingredients. Iqt. milk -skim milk 
of wheat or with 1 teaspoon butter will do — 2 eggs, 
graham flour. | p^_ flg^j.^ j teaspoon Salt. To pre- 
107 



108 Fruit Puddings. 

vent burning make in double boiler or pail set in 
a kettle of boiling water. Mix the flour and egg 
smooth with part of the milk, heat the remainder to 
boiling and stir in the egg and flour. Stir till it 
thickens, then let it swell and cook slowly for 15 min- 
utes. Serve with fruit, or with sugar and milk. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. water, 1 pt. milk, 

Farina pudding. , , ij. i j. j- • a 

1 teaspoon salt, ^ pt. lanna, 2 eggs. 
Make as above. 

This is excellent cut in slices when cold and fried 
brown on a griddle. It may also be made without 



Inqredients. 1 pt. fresh buttermilk. 

Buttermilk „ , ?, i, iv. ■, j. 

pudding. * tablespoons cream or butter, 1 tea- 

spoon salt, a pinch of soda, and flour for 
stiff batter. Steam 3 hours, or till it bursts open, 
or bake in little cups or patties. May be eaten with 
any fruit sauce or with milk and sugar. 

FKUIT PUDDIKGS WITH SODA BISCUIT DOUGH. 

For this dough, see page 102. 
When baked as short cake, split the 
cakes and spread between each pair 
strawberries mashed and sweetened, 
other fruit short- I^ the Same Way make shortcake of 
cakes. berries of any sort, stewed apples, stewed 
pieplant, lemon or orange tart filling, in short, any 
filling for a pie, that is ready to eat without further 
cooking. These should be eaten warm but not hot, 
and are as good next day, if put in the oven long 
enough to become again warm and crisp. 
Eoiy Poly pud- Thesc favorite dishes are but modifi- 
ding and apple cations of the fruit shortcake. In the 
dumpung. flrst the dough is made just stiff enough 



Fruit Puddings. 109 

to roll out, covered with apples or berries or other 
fruit, then rolled up and put to bake in a pan contain- 
ing a little water. 

For apple dumplings, the crust is cut in squares, 
sliced apples placed in the middle, then the corners 
gathered up and pinched together. Bake like Roly 
Poly pudding, or steam. 

If you wish to cook your fruit at the 
same time with the crust, fill a deep 
pie plate with fruit, as apples, and cover with the 
rolled out shortcake. Bake brown, and when done 
lift the crust, sweeten the fruit, replace the crust, and 
the " pie " is ready to serve. 

Raised biscuit or bun dough (see page 98), can be 
used in the same way, or still better, yeast pancake mix- 
ture (see page 99), in layers with any sort of fruit. 

If you will call these fruit shortcakes "pies," and 
be content therewith, you will save much labor, much 
expensive material, and set before your family a more 
healthful dish. No farther recipes for pies will be 
given; a few that are generally classed as such, com- 
ing more naturally under the head of puddings. 

FKUIT PUDDINGS WITH BREAD. 

1. Brown Betty. Ingredients. 1 pt. bread crumbs, or 
dry bread moistened, 1 qt. chopped sour apples, ^ pt. 
sugar, 3 teaspoons cinnamon, 4 tablespoons butter or 
suet. 

Arrange bread and apples in layers in a pudding 
dish, beginning and ending with the bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with the sugar and spice and 
spreading the butter over the top. Cover it till the 
apples are soft, then uncover to brown. 



110 Custard Puddings. 

The same, made with raspberries or 

2. Berry Betty. , , , , . ^, . • • n 

blackberries. If not ]uicy enough, a 
little water must be added. A pudding may be made 
in the same way with cherries or any other well fla- 
vored fruit. 

CUSTAKD PUDDINGS. 

1. Plain. Ingredients. 1 qt. milk, 4 eggs, beaten 
yolks and whites separately, 4 tablespoons sugar, a 
grating of nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Bake in a 
buttered pudding dish till solid, and take from the 
oven before it curdles. 

2. Kiceandeus- To abovc ingredients add \ cup of 

tard. rice cooked soft in part of the milk, or in 
water. . Bake ^ to f of an hour, till nicely browned. 
This is the foundation for the many varieties of rice 
puddings. Eaisins may be added, 
g . Tapioca and Sago puddings are made 

in the same way, except that they must 
4. Sago. i^g soaked for 3 hours in part of the 

milk or in water. 

Indian and cua- To the ingredients for plain custard 
tard pudding:, pudding add 1 pt. of corn meal and an 
extra cup of milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon gin- 
ger, \ cup sugar and \ cup chopped beef suet or 3 
tablespoonfuls tried out fat. Scald the meal first in 
the milk and bake the pudding, covered, two hours 
in slow oven. 

BKBAD AND CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

1. Bread pudding 1 qt. boiling milk poured on as much 
or "Semmei bread — as will absorb it, about 1 pt. if 
^"^ " ■ hard — 4 eggs, \ teaspoon salt, ^ cup 
sugar. 



Bread and Custard Puddings. Ill 

The milk and bread are allowed to get cold and the 
other ingredients well beaten with it, the eggs being 
beaten separately, and the whites added last. Bake 
one hour in a buttered dish. Eat without a sauce. 

Of course a bread pudding can be made with fewer 
eggs, but then it will hardly do for the main dish of 
a meal. 

2. Bread pudding Dried bread soaked soft in cold water 
( simple), and pressed dry in a cloth, milk to make 
it into a soft mush. Add 1 beaten egg to a pint of 
the mixture. Bake from half an hour to an hour 
and eat with sweet sauce. 

With raisins. Eaisins or currants or fresh fruit, as 

cherries, may be added. 

With dried After putting in ^ the pudding mix- 

appies. ture, put a thick layer of stewed dried 

apples mashed and sweetened, and flavored with 
orange peel or cinnamon. 
Bread and butter -^ convenient variation on the ordi- 

pudding. nary bread pudding. 
I'lain- Spread thin slices of bread with but- 

ter, and pour over them a simple custard, viz. : 4 eggs 
to 1 qt. of milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt. 
Keep pressed down till the custard is absorbed; Bake 
slowly till firm and brown. Eat with or without 
sauce. 

The bread slices may be spread with 
India currants, or with any kind of 
fresh or dried cooked fruit, not too juicy. 
Individual bread Cut small round loaves of bread into 

puddings. quarters, or iise biscuits. Soak in a 
mixture of 4 eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separate- 



112 Suet Puddings. 

\j, and added to 1 pt. of milk with a little sugar 
and nutmeg. When they have absorbed all they 
will without breaking, drain and bake in slow oven 
to a nice brown, spreading a little butter over once 
or twice at the last. This dish can be made very 
pretty by putting currants in the holes around the 
top and sticking in pieces of blanched almonds. 

SUET PUDDIN-GS. 

Ingredients. ^ pt. beef suet, chopped fine, \ pt. 
molasses, ^ pt. milk, ^ pt. raisins or currants, or both. 
(A part of the fruit may be figs and prunes cut in 
bits.) 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda mixed with 
the molasses, 1 pt. bread crumbs (dry), 1 pt. graham 
flour and 2 eggs. Steam 3 hours or bake 3. 
Eat with a lemon sauce. 

Use the above recipe, omitting the 
'"P ^- gggg a,nd using instead of graham flour 

and bread crumbs If pt. white flour. 
To reheat pud- ^^ the preceding puddings are good 
dings. reheated. Cut in slices, and warm in 

the oven, or fry in a little butter in a pan. Sift sugar 
over and eat with sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 pt. water made into a smooth starch with a heap- 
ing tablespoon flour. Cook 10 minutes, strain if nec- 
essary, sweeten to taste and pour it on 1 tablespoon 
butter and juice of a lemon or other flavoring. If 
lemon is not used add 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

This can be made richer by using more butter and 
sugar; stir them to a cream with the flavoring, then 
add the starch. 



Fritters. 113 

FRITTERS. 

These are various doughs and batters fried in boil- 
ing fat, and eaten warm with sugar or a sweet sauce. 
The hot fat gives a puffy lightness and a delicious 
crisp crust. 

Lard is. most generally used, but cooking oil (see 
page 41) is better, and even beef fat prepared as (see 
same page) is good. The fat must be smoking hot to 
prevent its soaking into the dough. For the same 
reason batters so cooked must contain more egg than 
if they were to be baked. 

The fritter may be rolled out and cut 
in shapes, or dropped in spoonfuls or 
run through a funnel, being, of course, mixed of dif- 
ferent consistency for each method. When nicely 
browned, take out with a wire spoon and lay on brown 
paper, which will absorb the fat, then sprinkle with 
sugar and send to table. 

Soda raised Ingredients. 1 pt. flour (^ may be 

fritters. graham), \ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon oil, 

butter, or lard, 1 egg and ^ pt. sour milk with ^ tea- 
spoon soda, or same of sweet milk with ^ teaspoon soda 
and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Beat the egg, white 
and yolk separately, adding the white last of all. 

Drop from a spoon into boiling lard; or, omit nearly 
half the flour and pour through a funnel. 

This batter may be also raised with yeast. 
Egg raised These are more crisp and delicate, 

fritters. If liked very light, soda or cream of 

tartar or baking powder may be added to these also. 
These batters are thinner than the preceding; they 
must be well beaten if no soda is used. 
10 



114 Fritters. 

1. Ingredients. 1 scant pt. of flour, 3 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, ^ pt. milk, 1 teaspoon oil or butter. 

Beat the yolks well, then again well with the flour 
and milk, add the stiffly beaten whites last. Fry in 
spoonfuls. 

3. Ingredients. 1 heaping pt. flour, 4 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon oil or butter, 1 teaspoon salt, about a pint 
of water, or enough to make the batter a little thicker 
than for pancakes. Proceed as before. 

1 tablespoon of lemon juice may be 
added to any of the above recipes, or a 
little nutmeg or cinnamon if liked. 

Take sour apples, peel, cut out the 

Fniit fritters. ,, i i- j • t i 

core neatly and slice round m slices ^ 
in. thick. Soak these a few hours in sweetened wine, 
lemon juice or other flavoring. Dip in either of the 
above batters and fry. (They are also very good with- 
out being soaked in the flavoring. ) 

Peaches, pine apples and bananas may be used in 
the same way. 

Trim the crust from sliced bread, cut 

Bread fritters. . . , , t j.^ i j_ ^ 

m nice shapes and soak soft, but not 
till they break, in a cup of milk to which has been 
added 1 beaten egg and some flavoring, as cinnamon, 
lemon, etc. Dip in fritter batter and fry. 



COOKIITG OF TEGETABLES. 



The Legumes. As we have seen, the food value of 

the dried bean, pea and lentil, is great, 

but as usually cooked a large per cent, of it is lost 

to us. 

In the process of cooking, the cellulose part must 

be broken up, softened, and as much as possible 

entirely removed. These vegetables, if they cannot 

be obtained ground, must be soaked in cold water 

some time before cooking, cooked till very soft and 

then mashed and sieved. No form of cooking that 

does not include sieving can be recommended except 

for very hardy stomachs. See pages 55 and 117. 

This vegetable must also be treated 
Potato • 

with care. The starch grains of which 

it is so largely composed swell in the process of cook- 
ing, and burst the cellulose walls confining them, but 
when this stage is reached the potato is too often 
spoiled by being allowed to absorb steam and become 
sodden. As soon as tender, boiled potatoes should 
be drained, dried out a few moments, then sprinkled 
with salt, and the kettle covered close with a towel, 
until they are served. They should then be put into 
a napkin and sent to the table. 

Other garden vegetables are cooked 
er veg-e a es. ^^^.^ ^^ jg^g alike; put into boiling 

water and kept at a rapid boil until tender, and no 

115 



116 Cooking of Vegetables. 

longer, — the length of time varying for any given 

vegetable according to the freshness, size, and degree 

of maturity. When done or nearly so, they should 

be seasoned and served as soon as possible, 

A welcome variety in the serving of 

Mixed vegetables. , , , i j. j ■ i -iij! i 

vegetables can be found m skilliul 

mixture of two or more kinds. A few of these mix- 
tures are, green corn and shelled beans, or succotash, 
green corn and tomatoes, green corn with stewed 
potatoes, potatoes and turnips mashed together, green 
peas with a quarter as many carrots cut very small, 
potatoes with same proportion of carrots and seasoned 
with fried sliced onions poured over. 
Vegetables and There are also mixtures of vegetables 
fruits. and fruits that are very successful, as 

lentils or beans with a border of stew^ prunes. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 



In general. These soups should be largely used by 
the economical housewife; they are cheap and nutri- 
tious, and if carefully made and seasoned, excellent 
in taste. A large number of recipes are given, from 
which can be selected what is suited to materials on 
hand, to amount of time and quantity of fire. 

These will be arranged under Vegetable Soups, 
Flour and Bread Soups, and Cold Soups. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

If any meat bones are on hand or trimmings of 
meat not otherwise needed, simmer them from one to 
two hours in water and use the broth thus obtained 
instead of water in making any of the following soups. 

Most important are those made from the dried bean, 
pea and lentil, the three pod-covered vegetables. For 
their nutritive qualities see page 81. 

Ingredients. 1 lb. beans, ] onion, 2 
"^' tablespoons beef fat, salt and pepper. 

Additions, to be made according to taste, i lb. 
pork, or a ham bone, a pinch of red pepper, or, an 
hour before serving, different vegetables, as carrots 
and turnips, chopped and fried. 

Soak the beans over night in 2 qts. water. In 
the morning pour off, put on fresh water and cook 
117 



118 Vegetable Soups. 

with feke onion and fat till very soft, then mash or 
press through a cullender to remove the skins, and 
add enough water to make 2 qts. of somewhat thick 
soup. Season. 

This soup may also be made from cold baked beans. 
Boil i hr., or till they fall to pieces, then strain and 
season. 
Split or dried Make like bean soup. 

pea soup. ^ 

Lentil soup. Make like bean soup. 

The water in which vegetables have 
Green Vegetable been cooked should never be thrown 
"^^" away, with the exception of that used 
for cooking beets, and potatoes boiled without peeling; 
even cabbage water can be made the basis of a good 
soup. 

General method. Boil the vegetables until very 
tender, mash or press through a cullender, thin suffi- 
ciently and season. 
Potato soup. Good and cheap. 

Ingredients. 6 large potatoes peeled, 1 large onion, 
1 heaping teaspoon salt, i teaspoon pepper. For a 
richer soup add i lb. salt pork cut in bits ( in this 
case put in less salt) or add 1 cup of milk or a beaten 
egg. Chopped celery leaves give a good flavor. 

Boil potatoes, onions and salt in a little water, 
and when very soft mash ; then add, a little at 
a time and stirring to keep it smooth, a qt. of hot 
water and 1 tablespoon beef fat in which 1 tablespoon 
flour has been cooked ; or use the fat for frying bread 
dice, which add at the last minute. 

Most cooks fry the sliced onion before putting it 
in the soup, but the difference in taste is so slight as 



Vegelable Soups. 119 

not to be worth the few minutes extra time, if time is 

an object. 

This is a delicious soup and Tery nutri- 
Green pea soup. ,. _ ..\ i j . 

tious. Large peas, a little too hard to 

be used as a vegetable, may be utilized in its manu- 
facture. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. shelled peas, 3 pts. water, 1 
small onion, 1 tablespoon butter or fat, 1 tablespoon 
flour. Salt and pepper. 

Put peas and onion in b(riling water and cook ^ an 
hour to an hour, till very soft. Press through cul- 
lender and season. 

Pea and tomato -^dd to abovG when done, 1 pt. stewed 
soup. tomatoes and a little more seasoning. 

This is an excellent soup, having the nutrition of the 
pea and the flavor of the tomato. 

Valuable for its fine flavor, and may 
oma o soup. ^^ made nutritious also by adding broth, 
milk or eggs. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. tomatoes, 2 pts. water, 1 table- 
spoon fat, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper. 

Cook the flour in the fat, add the peeled tomatoes 
and a very little water. When they have cooked to 
pieces, mash them against the side of the pot, add 
the rest of the water and the seasoning. 
Tomato soup Proceed as above, using instead of half 

No. 2. the water, 1 pt. of milk, into which ^ 

tea spoon soda has been stirred. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. of parsnips cut in 
arsmpsoup. pjgQgs, 3 small potatoes, 3 pts. water, 
or water and milk, salt, pepper and butter. 

Cook till the vegetables fall to pieces, mash and add 



130 Vegetable Soups. 

seasoning. If milk can be substituted for part of the 

water the soup will be improved. 

young vegetable Ingredients. 1 pt. chopped onion, 

or spring soup, carrot, turnips and celery root in about 
equal parts, 1 tablespoon fat, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt 
and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add sugar, salt and pepper, then stir 
the vegetables in it till they begin to brown, add 3 
pts. water and set back to simmer 1 to 3 hours. Serve 
without straining. 

Ingredients. ^ doz. ears green corn, 

reen corn soup, g ^^^^ water, 1 tablespoon fat and 1 

tablespoon flour salt and pepper, an egg and a cup of 
milk. 

Cut the corn from the cob and boil one hour. Add 
the flour which has been fried in the fat, season and 

strain. 

Make as above, using dried corn, 
ne corn soup, g^g^j^g^j ^^gj, ^jg^j^ ^mA. boiled 2 hours. 

Sorrel soup. j^n excellent flavor, new to most of us. 

Ingredients. 1 pt. sheep's sorrel, light measure 
(bought in city markets, or gathered in country 
fields), 1 onion, a few leaves of lettuce and parsley 
all chopped fine, ^ teaspoon nutmeg, 1 tablespoon 
fat, 3 tablespoons flour, 3 pts. water, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, salt and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add the chopped vegetables and sweat 
or steam for 10 minutes, then add flour and last the 
boiling water; add the milk just before serving. 
Serve fried bread with it. 

"Hit and Miss" ^"^ illustrate how all bits can be 
soup. used, here is a soup actually made from 

"leavings." 



Flour and Bread Soups. 131 

1 cup water drained from macaroni, 1 cup water 
drained from cabbage, with a few shreds of the cab- 
bage, 2 small bones from roast Teal, 1 scant tablespoon 
boiled rice. Simmer these together with a chopped 
onion while the rest of the dinner is cooking, thicken 
with a little flour and serve with fried bread. 

FLOUE AND BREAD SOUPS. 

Fionrsoup. Ingredients. 1 tablespoon beef fat, 1 
heaping tablespoon flour, 2 sliced onions, 2 pts. water, 
1 pt. milk, 1 cupful of mashed potato, salt and pepper. 

Pry the onions in the fat until light brown; remove, 
pressing out the fat. In same fat now cook the flour 
till it is yellow, and add, a little at a time, the water. 
Put back the onions and let it stand awhile, then 
add milk and potato. Salt well. 

The potato may be omitted and a little more flour 
used. 
Browned Flour Ingredients. 1 tablespoon butter or 

soup. fat, ^ cup flour, 2 pts. water, 1 pt. milk, 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Cook the flour brown in the fat over a slow fire or 
in the oven; add slowly the water and other ingredi- 
ents. Serve with fried bread. 

Browned Farina Make like above, but of wheat farina. 
Bread soup. Ingredients. Dry bread, broken in bits, 
water, salt and pepper, an onion and a little fat. 

Soak the bread in boiling water for a few minutes, 
add the onion sliced and fried in the fat; salt and 
pepper well. 

Or use milk instead of water, and toasted or fried 

bread. 

11 



132 Milk Soups. 

Noodle Soup. (See page 91. ) 

MILK SOUPS OR POKEIDGES. 

These are especially good in families where there 
are children, and would be welcome on almost any 
supper table. They are almost equally good eaten 
cold. 

In making, use a porcelain kettle or an iron kettle, 
greasing it first with a little fat, as a scorched taste 
spoils the dish. 

Wheat Porridge Ingredients. 3 pts. milk, 1 pt. of 
(salted.) -y^ater ( or half water and half milk), -J 
cup flour, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons salt. 

To the boiling milk and water, add the flour stirred 
smooth with a little cold milk; let it cook 10 minutes. 
Beat the eggs in gradually, but do not cook them; 
serve with fried bread. Grated cheese is an addition 
to this soup. 

Wheat Porridge Same as aboTC, but using only a pinch 
(sweet.) of salt, and as flavoring 3 tablespoons 
sugar and i teaspoon cinnamon. The flavor may be 
varied by using grated lemon peel, nutmeg, vanilla, 
bitter almond or 2 fresh peach leaves boiled with the 
milk. 

Of Farina. These two porridges are still better 

made of farina instead of flour. 

Barley Porridge. ^^^^'^ ^^^^^^y is Soaked over night in 
water, and then cooked for 2 hours till 
soft. During the last hour add milk instead pt 
water, as it dries away. Flavor with salt and butter. 
Indian Meal Ingredients. 1 cup meal, 2 qts. water. 

Porridge. 1 tablespoon flour, 1 pt. milk, salt, and 

a little ginger (if liked). Boil the meal and water 



Milk Soups. 123 

an hour; add flour and salt and boil i hour, and add 

the milk just before serving. 

Oatmeal Make in the same way, using oat- 

Porridge. meal instead of flour. 
Graham 1 cup graham flour to 3 pts. milk and 

Porridere. water. Cook 15 minutes. This may 

be varied in flavor like flour porridge. 

These three Porridges can be made from cold corn, 

oatmeal or graham mush. 

Inqredients. i lb. chocolate, 2i qts. 
Chocolate Soup. ■■,-, ^ , , . , , 

milk and water, sugar to taste, 1 egg 

yolk, a little vanilla or cinnamon. 

Cook the chocolate soft in a little water and add 
the rest; when boiling put in the other ingredients 
and cook the beaten white of an egg in spoonfuls on 
the top. Serve with fried bread. 
Buttermilk Soup The foreign kitchen has many recipes 

or "Pop." for this soup quite unknown among us. 
Cooking brings out the acid, but once used to that 
taste, one finds the soup good and wholesome. 

Ingredients. To each pt. of buttermilk, 1 table- 
spoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter, a little salt. 

Bring gradually to a boil, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent curdling, and pour on fried bread. 

Varieties. Sugar and cinnamon are often added 
to this soup; also the yolk and beaten white of 1 &gg. 
It is considered nutritious for the sick. 

Another. The Germans often add to this soup 
small potatoes, and bits of fried bacon. In which 
case the butter is omitted. 

Or to the buttermilk soup when done, is added 
half the quantity of cooked pears or prunes. 



134 Fruit Soups. 

Brewis. To Salted boiling milk, put enough 

bread crumbs (either white or graham) to mate a 
thick smooth porridge. 

This soup is earnestly recommended 

Sour Cream Soup., ,.-,,! . • i • i 

for trial, as there are few ways in which 
such a delicious taste may be given to simple materails. 

Ingredients. 3 pts. water, \ cup sour cream and the 
following mixture: \ cup milk, ^ cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
butter, -J^ tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon fluid yeast or \ teaspoon compressed 
yeast. Mix these together into a dough and let it 
get light, then drop half of it in teaspoonfuls into 
the boiling water and cream; then thin the rest with 
water until it wHl pour, add it to the soup and cook 
5 minutes. (Not all the dough may be needed. ) 

Ingredients. 1 pt.' cider just begin- 
^' ning to work, 1 pt. water, 1 cup milk 

(boiling), 1 tablespoon flour, a little cinnamon and 
sugar. 

Let cider and water come to a boil, add the flour rub- 
bed smooth, and cook a few minutes; and lastly add 
the milk. Serve with toast. An egg yolk may be 
added. 

FRUIT SOUPS. 

To he eaten Warm or Cold. 

These are made of almost any well flavored fruit, 
cooked soft and mashed, sufl&cient water added, with 
a little thickening, sugar and spice. They are espe- 
cially welcome in summer; may be eaten as a first 
course, or set aside to be used as a drink during tlie 
meal. 



Fruit Soups. 135 

. , , , Ingredients. 4 cups peeled and quar- 

Apple soup. No. 1. , j' , , ; , , . 

tered apples, cooked to a mush in a 

little water, 1-^ pts. water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 3 

teaspoons sugar, \ teaspoon cinnamon, a pinch of salt. 

No. a. A soup plate full apples, 1 cup of rice. 

Cook soft and rub through a sieve, adding a little 

sugar, cinnamon, lemon peel, and an egg yolk. Thin 

sufficiently with water. 

No. 3. Instead of rice, use in the above recipe 

bread with the addition of a few India currants. 

No. 4. Instead of rice, use oatmeal and cook 

till soft, or use that already cooked. 

Make like apple soup, but if the 
Plum Soup. ^^ /' 

plums are very sour add a little soda, 

— J teaspoon to a qt. of soup. 

Cherry Soup. Made in the same manner. 

These soups may also be made of dried plums, prunes 

or dried sour cherries. Soak the fruit over night. 

Soups of Pears, If soup is made of a milder fruit, as 

^tc- pears, which are at some seasons so 

cheap, add a few sour apples or more spice, to give 

flavor. 



ADDITIOIS^S TO SOUPS. 



If your soup has not strength enough, milk and 
eggs may be added if no meat stock is at hand. 

The egg should be beaten, mixed with 
ow o eggs. ^ jj^i-jg qJ ^jjg soup, then added to the 

rest, but not boiled. The yolk is better for this pur- 
pose than the white. 

Liebig's meat extract is yery valuable 
for adding flayor to a soup but it is too 
expensive for general use. 

This may be boiled a few minutes 
with the soup after being mixed smooth 
in a little water, or better, cook it in a little butter or 
melted beef fat before adding to the soup. 

On baking day, save a little of the 

2. Bread Sponge. , , ' ■,,■,- t_ j. 

bread sponge, make thm enough to 
pour, and if you wish, add a beaten egg. Set away 
half an hour to rise again, and when light pour into 
the soup. 

This preparation of wheat, now sold 
by the pound at a reasonable price, is 
most valuable as an addition to soup ; it needs only 
to be sprinkled in and boiled for a few moments. 

Mashed potato mixed smooth with a 
little milk or grated cold potato may 
be added to soup to give body. 
126 



Additions to Soups. IS? 

5. Barley. Add to the soup 1 liour before it is done 

pearl barley that has been soaked oyer night. 

One-half hour before serving, add to 

soup 1 tablespoon of rice to a quart of soup. 

Bits of bread dried hard in the oven, 

may be added to the soup just before 

serving, or fry them in the spider in a little beef fat, 

or soak in milk and egg before frying. Or, toast 

bread and cut in squares. 

Any small vegetables may be added, 

8. Vegetables. , .1- • 

such as asparagus tops, tmy onions 
that have been first boiled in another pot, cooked 
peas, beans, etc. A favorite Russian soup is beef 
soup, with the addition of beets, cabbage and carrots. 
Most important of all additions to soup are those 
which need a libtle more time to prepare, but are 
worth the trouble if the soup is to be the principal 
part of the dinner. Such are the following: 

DUMPLINGS FOE SOUPS AKD STEWS. 

This word has an unpleasant sound, too suggestive 
of the heavy and unwholesome balls often served 
under this name, but there seems to be no other name 
under which these different preparations can be 
classed. Their basis is bread and eggs, or flour and 

eggs. 

Bread mentioned here is hard dried bread ; it must 

be softened by soaking in cold water ( hot water makes 

it pasty), then press it dry in a cloth and crumble it. 

Any cooked meat or several different 

Meat Balls. ^^^g^^ ^^^^ ^-^^^.^ jg ^^^ lj^.j.le ^f g^ch 

to be otherwise used, is chopped fine and mixed with 



138 Dumvlings for 8oups and Stews. 

as much bread, salted and peppered, a little chopped 
suet or butter, or better still, marrow, and a chopped 
onion and some herbs, and to each cup of this mix- 
ture allow an egg. Mix lightly, make out into little 
balls and cook in very gently boiling soup. Try one 
first to see if it holds together. If not, add a little 
flour. 

Substitute for the meat any cooked 

Fish balls. „ , , ■, - 

fish, chopped fine. 

Two eggs to 1 cup of bread and mar- 
Marrow balls. .J, , J ■««• T 

row size of an egg, chopped. Make as 

above. 

Instead of marrow, add cubes of 

Bacon Balls. . j! • :i i 

bacon fried brown. 
All these mixtures can also be fried in a pan as an 
omelette, or baked. 

Flour and Bread Three cups, half bread, half flour, 1 
Balls. egg, butter size of an egg, 1 cup milk 

and water, salt. Soak the bread in the milk -and 
water, and make out into little balls with the other in- 
gredients. Cook, covered, 15 minutes (may also be 
boiled in salted water and eaten with fruit). 

One egg, 1 teaspoon flour, a little 

Egg Sponge. °° ^ 

salt. Beat white of egg to foam, mix 
lightly with the rest and pour on top of the soap. 
Turn over in a few minutes with a skimmer, and be- 
fore putting into the turreen, cut it in pieces. 

No. 2. 1 heaping tablespoon flour to 1 egg and the 
yolk of another, and 1 teaspoon butter. Beat hard 
and drop in with a teaspoon. 

Schwaben Spet- One egg, 3 tablespoons milk, nearly 
^1- ^ cup of flour, salt. Pour through a 



Dumplings for Soups and Stews. 139 

funnel into soup or into salted water, cook 5 min- 
utes and use to garnish beef. 

Biscuit Dough -A-U excellent addition to a stew or 

Balls. soup is of biscuit or rusk dough ( see 

page 98), made into balls no larger than a chestnut, 

and cooked in the stew, or steamed in a cloth above 

it. 

Also the following of buttermilk: 1 

Buttermilk Balls. i ^^ -n i j. j- j i 

cup buttermilk, ^ teaspoon oi soda, 1 
egg, salt, and flour enough to allow of the batter 
being dropped in spoonfuls. 

Cooked macaroni cut in pieces an 
aoarom. inch long, is a pleasant addition to soup. 



FLAYORS OE SEASOl^^IIi^GS. 



Without doubt " hunger is the best sauce," but it 
is not true, as many think, that a craving for variety 
is the sign of a pampered and unnatural appetite; 
even animals, whom we cannot accuse of having 
"notions," have been known to starve in the exper- 
imenter's hands rather than eat a perfectly nutri- 
tious food of whose flavor they had wearied, and pris- 
oners become so tired of a too oft repeated dish that 
they vomit at the sight and smell of it. 

What we call flavors may or may not be associated 
with a real food. Meats are rich in flavors and each 
fruit has its peculiar taste; then, there are the spices 
and aromatic herbs which are not parts of a real food, 
and it is most important that the cook should under- 
stand the art of adding these as seasonings to mild tast- 
ing foods, so as to make new dishes which shall be both 
nutritions and appetizing. The bulk of our nourish- 
ment must be made up of the flesh of a few animals, 
a half-dozen grains and as many garden vegetables, 
but the skillful cook can make of them, with the 
help of other flavors, an endless variety of dishes. 

An American traveling on the continent of Europe 

becomes acquainted with many new dishes and tastes, 

and although not all of them are to his liking, he 

must conclude that our cookery, compared for in- 

130 



Flavorings. 131 

stance, with that of the French, is very monotonous. 
To be sure, we have the advantage of the European 
in that our markets ofEer us a greater variety of nat- 
ural foods, especially fruits, each having a flavor of 
its own, and this fact makes us somewhat more inde- 
pendent of the art of the cook; but still we have need 
for every lesson of this sort, and especially is this the 
case with the poor, who must -keep to the cheapest 
food materials, which are not in themselves rich in 
flavor. 

Spices and other flavors, when not used to excess, 
stimulate our digestive organs to appropriate more 
easily the food to which they are added; their agree- 
ahle odor starts the digestive juices, both in the 
mouth and in the stomach, and their flavor acting 
on the palate has the same effect. 

The more common spices and flavors, as the house- 
wife uses these terms, are salt, pepper, mustard, cin- 
namon and mace, nutmegs, cloves, ginger, caraway 
and coriander seeds, vanilla, and many volatile oils, 
such as those contained in the rind of lemons and 
oranges; and to this list we must add certain vegeta- 
bles, as the horseradish and various members of the 
onion family, the (Taper and nasturtium seeds, and the 
aromatic herbs. 

All these have their use and their abuse. Salt is 
hardly thought of in this list, so necessary do we con- 
sider it, and its use is well enough governed by our 
palate, though no doubt we over, rather than under 
salt our foods. Pepper is also in nearly every house- 
hold used to excess, being added to too many dishes. 
The pungent mustard should be still more carefully 



133 Flavorings. 

used; but a little of it adds relish to a salad or a meat 
sauce, and goes especially well with certain vegetables, 
as beans. Cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, we use prin- 
cipally with sweet dishes, but nutmeg makes a nice 
variety in certain meat stews and in croquettes; 
foreign cooks use it far too much to suit our taste. 
Almost our only use of the caraway and coriander 
seeds is in cookies ; try the former in a potato soup 
for variety. G-inger seems to go well with Indian 
meal in a pudding or porridge, and with molasses, 
wherever used. 

To give the uses for onions and for the aromatic 
herbs would be too long a task. The latter can all be 
bought in a dried state very cheaply^ and they retain 
their flavor well; one of the most useful, however, 
parsley, is much better fresh ; by all means keep a 
little box of it growing in a window. Perhaps, after 
onion, celery is most useful as a flavor for soups and 
stews, root, stem, leaves and seeds being all valuable. 

In the flavoring of soups and stews, it is well to use 
a number of flavors, letting no one of them be promi- 
nent above the others ; on the other hand, it is well 
to have certain favorite dishes seasoned always in the 
same way ; as fresh pork with sage; summer savory 
in a bread dressing, etc. 



DEII^KS AT MEALS. 



A warm drink at meals is better than a cold one, es- 
pecially in winter or at any time when we are tired; and 
the drinking of ice water cannot be too strongly con- 
demned, lowering as it does the temperature of the 
stomach and so delaying digestion. To furnish warm 
drinks for each meal, acceptable to the palate, cheap 
and harmless, is no easy question. Soups or broth 
once adopted as a part of two meals in the day, as is 
so frequently seen in Europe, and the problem is half 
solved; indeed some of the drinks here given are really 
thin vegetable soups or porridges to which the flavor 
of salt or of sugar may be given according to taste. 

It may be concluded, after comparing 
authors on the subject, that although 
coffee somewhat retards digestion and acts as a stimu- 
lant to the nervous system, still one or even two cups 
of moderately strong coffee a day will not harm a 
healthy person. We may say, therefore, that its use 
to this extent is a question of expense only. 

Java and Mocha coffee in equal parts are considered 
the best mixture. Rio is much cheaper, and of strong, 
pure flavor. The amount to be used for moderately 
strong coffee is 1 tablespoon ( ground) to a cup. 

Chicory is considered here only as an adulterant, 
whereas in Europe a very little of it, say ^ teaspoon of 

133 



134 Coffee and Tea. 

the prepared chicory to a cup of ground coffee, is 
used to improve the flavor. 

Next to the quality of the coffee, it is of importance 
that it should' be freshly ground and browned. If 
yon buy it browned, reheat it first before grinding. 
The easiest and most economical way of making is to 
grind it very fine and put into a bag made of woven 
stuff, a white stocking top will do ; leave room to 
swell. Heat this in your coffee pot as hot as you can 
without burning. Pour on boiling water and keep it 
hot and close-covered for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Boiling coffee increases its strength, but does not 

improve its flavor. 

All authors agree as to the harmful- 
Tea 

ness of strong tea, taken to excess. 

Take great pains in making tea. Use an earthen ' 
teapot, and have a tea cozy or a large flannel cloth to 
wrap it in. 

The water used should be between hard and soft, 
extracting the aroma but not the astringency; in 
China river water is used. If hard water must be 
used, remember that boiling increases its hardness 
and that it should be used as soon as it reaches the 
boiling point. 

Take 1 teaspoonf ul of tea to a cup, put it in the teapot 
and heat in an oven till hot, pour on 1 cup of water 
that has just come to a boil, and cover with the tea 
cozy. Let it stand 5 minutes, then fill up with the 
requisite quantity of hot water and serve immediately. 
Cocoa and choco- These both contain a good deal of 
late. nourishment, and as drinks are con- 

sidered rather heavy. As the various kinds differ 



Gruels. 135 

very much from each other, they are best prepared 
according to the recipes found on the packages. 

Milk, except for children, can hardly 

be looked upon as a drink, but diluted 

with hot water, and sweetened, it has already been 

christened for the children as "cambric tea," and it 

is no bad drink for their elders. 

A very thin gruel, slightly sweetened, 

UrrUclSa • 11*1 

IS a good drmk. 
Oatmeal gruel. Into a qt. of boiling water stir 2 table- 
spoons oatmeal ; boil for an hour or longer, strain 
through a coarse sieve or a cullender, add a pinch of 
salt, and a little milk and sugar. 

Wet 1 tablespoon rice flour in a little 
** ■ cold milk, put into 1 qt. boiling water, 

salt slightly and.boil till transparent. Flavor with a 
little lemon peel and sugar. 

1 qt. boiling water, 3 tablespoons 

Commeal gruel. i i j • i ^ i 

corn meal washed m several waters, \ 
teaspoon salt ; add ^ cup milk and a little sugar ; — a 
pinch of ginger is an imj)rovement. 

Soak pearl or ground barley all night 
' or a few hours in cold water, put into 
boiling water and cook till very soft. Season like the 
others. 

^° ^ruSf"*"** Can be made in the same way. 
All these drinks must be thin and not too highly 

seasoned. 

Brown common field corn as you 

mco ee would coffee, as brown as you can without 

burning. Grind coarsely and steep like coffee. Add 

milk and sugar, and you will find it a delicious drink. 



136 Summer Drinks. 

Cold drinks In Lemonade is too strongly acid for a 
Summer. regular drink at meals, but lemon as a 
flavor is always welcome. 

Irish moss lemon- Wash a handful of Irish moss in 5 
ade. waters, pour oyer it 2 qts. boiling water 

and let it stand till cold. Strain, adding more water 
if necessary and add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten 
with lump sugar which you have rubbed on the lemons 
to obtain the oil in the skin. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. tartaric acid dis- 
solved in a pt. of hot water. When 
cold flavor with lemon zest or extract, and add the 
beaten white of an egg. When used, add 2 table- 
spoons of it to a glass of water in which you have 
dissolved \ teaspoon soda. 

Slice iuicy sour apples into boiling 
Apple water. , '',,•' i, ol ■ 

water and keep warm an hour. Strain 

and sweeten. All these drinks taste best cooled (but 

not too cold) with ice. 

Sweet cider can be bottled for use 

and makes a delicious drink. Boil and 

skim till it is clear — no longer; pour hot into bottles, 

and seal. 

See also vegetable and fruit soups. 



COOKEET FOR THE SICK 



It is comparatiTely easy for your family to live on a 
small income while all its members are in good health, 
but you will find your resources all too slender when 
^ou must cater for the appetite of an invalid. 

At best, sickness is always a severe drain on the 
limited income, but here, as in every other depart- 
ment of yoiir work, you will find that good sense and 
ingenuity will often stand you in stead for money. 

During a severe illness the food as much as the 
medicine is under the care of the physician, but when 
the danger is over and he has left you with only gen- 
eral directions, you will be more than likely in 
your bewilderment to take the advice of the first 
neighbor that drops in, although you may know that 
neither her judgment nor experience is as good as 
your own. 

Now consider first, what did the doctor mean by 
saying that the patient must be " built up," and how 
is the wasted frame to get back the fat and muscle 
that were burned away in the sickness? Chiefly, as 
you know, by the digestion of food, the proteids and 
fats and carbohydrates that we have been talking 
about, and still another, a real food although so often 
forgotten, the oxygen of the air. 

We have said that we need not concern ourselves 
about this food, that it would take care of itself; and 
80 it will when we are in a state of health and living 
12 137 



138 Cookery for the Sick. 

as human beings should, for as we walk or work we 
are fed by the air without knowing it. But the case 
is quite different with a poor invalid shut up in a sick 
room, we must bring the fresh air to him with as 
much care and regularity as we do his jellies and broths. 

When we are considering what we shall feed our 
invalid, we eannot do better than keep to our old 
classification of Proteids, Fats, and Carbohydrates. 
He must have all these principles but in the most 
digestible form, for the stomach is feeble like the rest 
of the body. For this reason the proteids must be 
furnished mainly from the animal kingdom, butter 
and cream must supply the fat, and the carbohy- 
drates must bring with them as little as possible of 
the tough cellulose, and they must be so cooked as 
to be easily digested. 

First, as to the Proteids. 

Hot milk, given often in small quantities, is much 
used in the early stages of recovery and is generally 
better liked if accompanied by a bit of toasted bread 
or made into a thin gruel. 

In the first rank, also, comes soup made of lean 
beef scraped fine, covered with cold water and allowed 
to stand for an hour, then brought slowly to scalding 
heat and kept there for a short time; it is then 
strained through a coarse sieve, the small brown 
flakes being allowed to pass. Season only with salt. 
Or, broil a thick, tender steak, cut it in pieces, and 
then with a lemon squeezer press out every particle 
of juice, it may then be diluted and seasoned. 

Mutton broth is made like beef soup but should be 
cooked a longer time. Chicken broth also requires 
more cooking. 



Cookery for the Sick. 139 

Any of these soups may have a little rice or tapioca 
cooked with them. 

Eggs are an important item in the diet of an inva- 
lid, being very nutritious and, if fresh, easily diges- 
ted; do not use them at all if uncertain of their age. 

Eggs may be given raw ( see page 58 ) or soft-boiled 
( see page 59 ) or poached in hot water. An egg may 
be served in many ways and makes always a pretty 
and attractive dish. In cooking, it should never be 
submitted to a high temperature, as that makes the 
white part horny and indigestible. 

A custard made from an egg and a cup of milk and 
a half table spoon of sugar may be given early in a 
convalescence. Or use beef soup or chicken broth 
instead of the milk, and flavor with a little salt and 
pepper. Tbese custards should be made in a pail set 
in a kettle of boiling water, the custard being stirred 
till it begins to thicken. 

Next in order, comes cooked meat. Beef is best 
of all, but let it be juicy and tender and broil or roast 
it, serving it rare. Probably a broiled mutton chop 
ranks next, although chicken, because of its delicate 
flavor will often receive the first choice. An invalid 
should not touch pork, and should be given veal or 
lamb only in the form of soup. 

As to fats, the system needs them of course, but 
fat meat should not be given, only butter or better 
still, cream. The butter must never be melted and 
soaked into the food, nor made into a sauce. 

As to the vegetable part of the diet, much care 
must be used. In the form of gruel or porridge, it 
is generally very welcome and gives the fluid part of 



140 Cookery for the Sick. 

the meal in a good form. For Indian meal and oat- 
meal porridge see page 123. Milk may take the place 
of the water. 

Toast is with good reason considered invalids' food, 
for the process of toasting turns part of the starch of 
the bread into dextrine which is digested with great 
ease. G-rains may be also browned or roasted. Eoast 
rice as you would coffee, cook as usual and eat with 
a little cream. Eemember that bread for toast must 
be cut thin and first dried out at a little distance from 
the fire, then brought nearer and browned. You may 
then serve it as dry toast lightly buttered, or in addi- 
tion to the butter and a little salt, pour hot water or 
milk on it just before serving. 

Panada of toasted brown bread, white bread or 
crackers, is made by piling the pieces in a bowl, hav- 
ing sprinkled either salt or sugar over, and then pour- 
ing over enough boiling water to soak them well. It 
should be kept hot for an hour or more, the pieces then 
lifted out carefully on a hot saucer and served with a 
little cream and perhaps more salt or sugar. Nutmeg 
may be added. 

Eice is also a very valuable food for use in sickness, 
as it does not tax the most delicate digestion. 

Macaroni is easily digested and of high food value. 
It should be boiled in salted hot water till tender and 
served with a little batter or cream. Or it may be 
added to a custard and lightly baked. 

Barley, thoroughly cooked, is good food for an in- 
valid. Oatmeal must be used with caution until the 
digestion becomes stronger. 

As to vegetables proper, a mealy baked potatoe is 



Cookery for the Sick. 141 

perhaps tlie-firet to be introduced into the bill of fare; 
remove the inside, mash fine and season with a little 
salt and cream. Beware of potatoes cooked in any 
other way. 

The juice of fruits may be used early as aTfiavor in 
drinks, but the pulp must be discarded. A baked 
apple is safest to begin with, when the time comes to 
introduce fruit as such into the diet. 

As to the serving, use the best china, silver and 
linen that you have in the house and let exquisite 
neatness never fail. 

Eemember that surprises are delightful to a sick 
person; never let the bill of fare be known before 
hand, and if you can disguise a well known dish, so 
much the better. Beaten white of egg is a good fairy 
and serves you cheaply. Snowy white or made golden 
brown in the oven, it may top many a dish, conceal- 
ing at one time a custard, at another a mold of chicken 
jelly or even a cup of delicate apple sauce. 

The processes of cooking, if simple, an invalid loves 
to watch and the sight is often a whet to the appetite. 
Bring his gruel to him in the form of mush and thin 
it before his eyes with milk or cream, coddle his egg 
in a stone ware bowl while he eats another course, 
and by all means make his tea at the bed-side. 



BILLS OF FAEE. 



The following bills of fare are made out for a 
family of six persons, consisting of a working man, 
two women, and three children between the ages of 
six and fifteen, the size of the family and the ages 
attained being considered sufficiently near the arerage. 

The amount of food and the proportions in which 
the great food principles are represented approximate 
to what is demanded by standard dietaries for such a 
family. For the man of the family we have taken, as 
has been said, the one proposed by Professor Atwater 
for an American at average manual labor, for the 
women and children those proposed by Prof. Konig. 
The amounts represented by them 

Dietary adopted. 

are : 

Proteids. Pats. Ca^°f 

Man 125 gms. 135 gms. 400 gms. 

2 women (each)... 96 " 48 " 400 " 

3 children, 6 to 15 yrs. rj<g .< 44 .t 330 " 

(each) 

Sum total is 545 gms. 353 gms. 2210 gms. 

Or translated into oz 19.19 oz. 13.43 oz. 78.03 oz. 

In calculating these amounts we have followed 
almost entirely the analytical tables compiled by Prof. 
Konig. 

Meat is reckoned without bone and moderately 
fat, and in nearly all the bills of fare the amount of 
142 



Bills of Fare. 143 

proteids enough exceeds that required by the dietary 
adopted so that we can afford this loss. Flour is of 
medium quality, eggs are reckoned without shell, and 
milk as weighing 34.4 oz. per qt. 

As to prices, they are mainly those of Baltimore 
markets, corrected in some cases by those of New York. 
Eggs are reckoned as costing in the spring 18 cts., 
in Fall and Winter 25 cts. , canned fruit is put down 
at the price paid for the fruit in Summer. The cost 
of raw material is given in all cases, bread being 
reckoned at the cost of the flour contained in it. 

In three different seasons, four days in succession 
are selected, these days being the ones considered most 
trying to the housekeeper — Saturday, Sunday, Monday 
and Tuesday, and this gives an opportunity to show 
how the food should be planned and cooked ahead. 
It is intended that on Saturday the food for Sunday 
should be cooked as nearly as possible, as the Sunday 
liinner should be a good one but requiring a minimum 
of labor on that day; the dinner on Monday should 
be such as can be cooked on the back of the stove and 
in the oven. 

The recipes will have to be varied a little according 
to advice given in appropriate places as to economy, 
e. g., substituting beef fat for butter, or adding it 
when skim milk is used instead of whole milk. 

It is intended that each day there shall be a small 
surplus of money for purchasing seasonings and 
flavors. 

INTEODUCTION TO BILLS OF PARE, CLASS I. 

{To the Mother of the Family.) 
In the general introduction the writer has stated a 



144 Introductory Letter. 

few principles that should guide us in choosing our 
food. We have learned that to keep us in good health 
and working order we ought to have a certain amount 
of what is best furnished by meat, eggs, milk and 
other animal products, and that we must also have 
fats as well as what is given us in grains and vegetables. 

But now our work has only just begun for we are to 
furnish these food principles in the shape of cooked 
dishes to be put on the family table three times a day, 
and the dishes must not only be nourishing but they 
must taste good, and there must be plenty of variety 
from day to day; and last — and this is the hardest 
point of all — we are to try to do this for the sum of 
IS cents per person daily, 

I am going to consider myself as talking to the 
mother of a family who has six mouths to feed, and 
no more money than this to do it with. Perhaps this 
woman has never kept accurate accounts and does not 
know whether she spends more or less than this sum. 
She very likely has her " flush " days and her " poor " 
days according to the varying amounts of the family 
earnings, and it may be a comfort to her to know that 
if she could average these days and plan a little bet- 
t(!r, she can feed her family nicely on this sum. 

A few facts as to what the writer knows to have been 
done in this line will not be amiss. I knew a family 
of 6 belonging to one of the professional classes, half, 
grown people, and half, children, that lived for a 
year on an average of 11 cents per person daily, and 
no one would have said that they did not live well 
enough; they had meat about four days out of the 
seven, there was always cake on their supper table, 
and they used plenty of fruit. 



Introductory Letter, 145 

Here is an average bill of fare. Breakfast — milk 
toast, fried potatoes, coffee; dinner — soup made of 
shank of beef, fried liver, rice and potatoes; supper 
— bread and butter fried mush, stewed pears and 
cake. Next day there was pressed beef made from 
the soup meat chopped and flavored, and next day 
there was cheap fish nicely fried. The head of this 
household was a skillful economist, absolutely no mis- 
takes were made in cooking, and not a scrap was 
wasted, she had a long list of simple dishes at her 
command and she especially studied variety. "1 
abandon even a favorite dish for weeks," she said, 
"if any one tires of it." I give this as a sample of 
what I know to have been done by a highly respect- 
able family in a city of small size in one of our east- 
ern states. 

It must be mentioned that the price on which this 
family lived in comfort could not have been as low as 
it was but for one great help; they had a small gar- 
den that furnished green vegetables and a little fruit. 
But then almost every family has some special advan- 
tage that would lower the rate somewhat ; one buys 
butter or fruit advantageously of friends in the coun- 
try, another can buy at wholesale when certain staples 
are cheapest, still another may be able to keep a few 
fowls, and so on. ^Numerous instances could be 
brought to profte that the food for a family can be pur- 
chased in a raw condition for the sum per head for 
which we have undertaken to buy it, and that by skill 
in cooking, flavoring and giving right variety, a health- 
ful and very acceptable diet can be furnished, though 
it cannot, of course, contain luxuries. 
13 



146 Time and Utensils Required. 

Another thing, when I speak of a woman who is to 
buy the food of a family for 13 cents apiece daily, 
I have in mind the wife of a man who earns this sum 
himself, the wife having her time to attend to the 
housework and children. If a woman helps earn, as 
in a factory, doing most of her housework after she 
comes home at night, she must certainly have more 
money than in the first case in order to accomplish 
the same result, for she must buy her bread already 
baked and can only cook those dishes that take the 
least time. 

I shall take for granted that you have the kitchen 
utensils described on page 30; if not, buy them, be- 
cause, you cannot afford to do without them. Pood 
is very expensive compared with pots and pans ; you 
must not spoil food for lack of the right things to 
cook it in. 

I only ask you in advance to try the recipes I shall 
give and to try to lay aside your prejudices against 
dishes to which you are not accustomed, as soups and 
cheese disbes for instance. You cannot afford to 
reject anything that will vary your diet; for many 
good tasting things you cannot buy. 

I know it is hard for a busy woman to give to her 
cooking a bit more time than will "just do," but if 
you make it a rule to determine the night beforehand 
just what you will cook on the foUowftig day, no mat- 
ter how simple the food may be, you will gain this 
result ; with the materials at your disposal you will 
put before your family much better food, and they 
will call you, a good cook and think that no family 
need live better than they; and this impression will be 



Buying of Meat. 147 

made principally from your having the right variety. 
Let us understand, to begin with, that it is your 
business in life just now to conquer this food question 
as it affects your family. Just as the business man 
must watch the market and take advantage of a half 
cent a pound on an article, that he may successfully 
compete with his neighbor, so you must be on the 
alert to use every possible advantage. It is a struggle 
in which energy and calculation will tell for a great 
deal, and you will have solid enjoyment in every point 
that you gain. 

In buying meat your saving cannot be so much in 
quantity as in quality. Try to learn the different parts 
of an animal, and to distinguish between meat from a 
fat ox and that from a lean one, for, as we have explain- 
ed, the former has less water in it, and why should you 
pay good money for that which nature gives you free ? 
In winter, try to buy meat ahead so that you can 
make it tender by keeping it, and you will notice, too, 
that the larger the piece you buy the smaller is the 
per cent of bone you get with it. The per cent of 
bone in the whole animal, as in the case of an ox, is 
not more than 10 or 11 per cent, but the buyer of a 
small piece of meat often gets twice that proportion. 
As we have said again and again in these pages, the 
low-priced or tougher parts have as much nutriment 
for you as the rib roast which is beyond your purse. 
Choose often the fat middle rib and cook it long 
and slowly ; buy the neck and scrag of mutton, and 
make a stew with vegetables: buy half a calf's head, 
and see what a fine soup you can make of it. Have 
beef's liver now and then, and tripe, rather than put 



148 Grains and Vegetables. 

your money into sausage of doubtful quality. By all 
means buy fish when it is cheap, catfish, for instance, 
which are excellent fried. Keep suet always on hand 
and use instead of butter, as has been directed. 

No one need tell you how valuable salt pork and 
bacon are for you, — the only danger is that you will 
use too much of them. 

In buying eggs, you must be governed by the 
price; in winter use as few as possible, and even in 
the spring when they are cheapest, remember that 
they are not as cheap as the lowest priced cuts of 
meat from fat animals. But when they cost only 
15 cents a dozen you can well disregard any small 
comparison of nutritive values, in consideration of 
their high worth in furnishing variety; you can 
afford to use them now and then in the place of meat 
and in making the various egg dishes. 

Of the value of cheese as a regular dish to take the 
place of meat, you can read in another part of this 
essay. Buy it once a week at least, the skim variety, 
if you cannot afford the others, and grate or cook it 
according to the recipes given. 

Try to find a reliable milkman and buy skim milk 
at half the price of full, and use it for all cooking pur- 
poses, keeping full milk, and, if possible, a little of 
the cream, for coffee. 

Now let us take the vegetable part of your diet. 
You must keep on hand every kind of 
fiour and grain that is not too expen- 
sive ; be thankful that wheat fiour is so good and so 
cheap, it will be your best friend. If you are not 
already skillful in using it in bread and other doughs. 



Flavorings. 149 

you will waste your materials and make mistakes at 
first, but there is nothing for you but to become mis- 
tress of this department of cookery. Use bread freely 
in all the bread dishes, learn how to make every one. 
You will use buckwheat for cakes, rice for puddings, 
barley in soups, oatmeal and cornmeal for mushes, and 
you must learn to use them all in as many ways as possi- 
ble. The grains are cheaper foods for us than Yegeta- 
bles, although dried peas, beans and lentils follow hard 
upon them. Even the potato, which may be called 
our favorite vegetable, is more expensive than. wheat 
flour, if we are talking only of food values. 

Except in the height of their season, have noth- 
ing to do with green vegetables, at least not under 
the impression that they are cheap; if you buy them, 
know that you are paying for flavors and variety, 
rather than for food. But even in the early spring, 
buy plenty of such vegetables as onions, carrots, pars- 
ley and other green herbs for your soups and stews. 
When you go for a walk in the country, be sure to 
bring home mint and sorrel in your pocket ; the for- 
mer will make you a nice meat sauce, the latter a 
delightful flavor in soup. It will be perfectly easy 
for you to grow in a window box that delicious herb, 
parsley, and have it always fresh. 

For a low purse, there is no help so great as a 
knowledge of flavorings. When we remember that 
we can live on bread, beans, peas and a little cheap 
meat and fat the year round if we can only make it 
"go down," we shall realize the importance of such 
additions as rouse the appetite; there is room here for 
all your skill and all your invention. Always make a 



150 Bills of Fare. 

cheap but nutritious dish inyiting in appearance; es- 
pecially does this influence the appetites of children 
who are delighted with a very plain cake if only a few 
raisins or some sugar appear on the top. 

The Bills of Pare on pages 146 to 158, where 78 cents 
covers the cost of food for a family of 6 per day, and 
where the amount of food is carefully weighed and esti- 
mated, is meant only to suggest to you how in a few 
cases your food problem can be solved. You can, no 
doubt, spend the money in ways that will better suit 
the tastes of your family, but I beg you to exam- 
ine anew your favorite dishes to see if they are as 
nutritious as they should be for their price. Remem- 
ber that the Proteid column is the one that you must" 
look to most carefully because it is furnished at the 
most expense, and it is very important that it should 
not fall below the figures I have given. If, for in- 
stance, you should economize in meat in order to buy 
cake and pastry, this column would suffer at the ex; 
pense of the other two and your family would he 
under nourished. « 



Bills of Fare, Glass I. 151 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS I. 



For family of six, average price 78 cents per day, or 13 cents 
per person. 

Saturday, Mat. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Flour Pancakes, Bread Soup (p. 20). 

(p. 103) with Sugar Syrup. Beef neck Stew 

Coffee. Noodles (p. 90). 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

ler. 

Browned Flour Soup, with Fried Bread (p. 121). 
Toast and Cheese (page 62, No. 1). 

Prnf^iriq fatq Carbo- Cost 

iToteias. Dats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. 02. Cents. 

Hlb. Bice.. 64 .08 6.13 4 

lib. Sugar .... 15.42 7 

Jilb.Pat Cheese. — 3.00 3.48 .24 11J4 

J! qts. Skim Milt 2.12 .48 3.30 8 

21b. Flour 3.84 .48 22.88 6 

J^qt. "Whole Milk 58 .62 .83 3JiS 

2Eg'gs 34 .32 .... 3 

2J^ lbs. Beef neck 8.40 2.20 .... 20 

%lb. Suet .... 5.88 .... 3 

Jglb. Coffee.. .... .... 3f 

%lbs. Bread 3.36 .28 29.06 8^ 

Total.. 22.28 13.83 77.85 77^ 

Kequired 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



152 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Sunday, Mat. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Milk Toast. Stuffed Beef's Heart (p. 48). 
Coflee. Potatoes stewed 

with Milk. 

Dried Apple Pie (p. 108). 
Bread and Cheese. 
Corn CofEee (p. 135). 

Slipper. 

Noodle Soup (from Saturday, p. 91). 

Broiled Herring. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Prntj>iria TTnta Carbo- Cost 

J-roteias. ifats. hydrates. la 

oz. oz; oz. Cents. 
Heart of Fat Ox 1 

weighing 2 lbs. r " ^'^^ ^'^ -- 1" 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .33 33.22 9j 

?^lb. Sugar .... 11.88 5 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 .24 1.65 4 

Ji lb. Dried Apples 10 .... 4.50 6 

U61b.Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4H 

12 Smoked Herring (1 pound). 3.36 1.36 .... 10 

M lb. Suet 9.23 .... 2 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 .... 6.62 ^ 

Jilb. Butter 3.33 .... 6)4, 

Ji lb. Skim Cheese 2.40 1.07 40 4 

Tea .... .... 2 

Hlb. CofEee .... .... 3f 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

Total.- 21.20 14.39 77.08 76 

Eequlred 19.19 12.43 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



153 



Monday, Mat. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush, with Pea Soup (p. Hi). 

Milk and Sugar. Mutton Stew (p. 53). 

Bread. Boiled Potatoes. 

Coffee. Bread. 
Supper. 

Bread Pancakes (p. 93). 

Fried Bacon. 

Tea. 

Protpiriq TTnta Carbo- Cost 

l^oteias. iats. hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

2 Eggs 34 .32 .... 3 

?i lb. Oatmeal.. 1.74 .72 7.80 3% 

J^lb. Coffee .... .... 3f 

^Ib. Sugar .... 7.92 3ii 

1!^ qta. Skim Milk 1,59 .36 1.48 6 

SJlb. Bacon. 36 9.60 .... 9 

4 lbs. Potatoes _... 1.28 .... 13.24 5 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9j 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.24 1.66 7 

3 lbs. Shoulder of Mutton 8.16 2.88 .... 21 

lib. Peas, Dried.. 3.68 .32 8.32 5 

Hlb. Flour 96 .12 5.72 1)^ 

Total, 23.11 15.88 80.34 77.3 

Hequired .19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



154 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Tuesday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush and Milk. Fried Oatflsli 

Buttered Toast. with Mint Sauce (p. 73). 

Coflee. Pried Potatoes. 

Bread. 



Fried Farina Pudding (p. 107). 

Broiled Salt Pork. 

Bread. 

Tea. 

Proteids. 



lib. Oatmeal a.33 

Iqt. Whole Milk.... 1.16 

Iqt. SkimMilk 1.06 

% lbs. Catfish.... 7.00 

IJ^lbs. Farina... 2.50 

3 eggs 34 

4}i lbs. Bread 4.32 

Coffee .... 

21bs. Potatoes-. 64 

Jglb. Salt Pork.. .30 

J^lb. Butter 

J41b. Sugar , 

Tea 

Total.. 19.64 

Required 19.19 





Carbo- 


Cost 




hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 


•96 


10.40 


5 


1.23 


1.65 


7 


.24 


1.65 


4 


.20 


.... 


11% 


... 


18.23 


7K 


.32 




3 


.36 


37.36 


IOt'tI-tt 







3* 





6.63 


2J6 


8.00 





1H 


1.67 





3^ 





3.96 


m 






2 


12.98 


79.86 


r4f 


13.42 


78.03 


78 



Bills of Fare, Glass I. 



155 



Satubdat, September. 

Dinner. 

Soda Biscuit. Pea Soup (p. 117) 

Baked Potatoes with Irish Stew. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. Bread. 

Cocoa. 

Supper. 

Corn Mush and Molasses. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. tydrat^. 

oz. oz. oz. 

1 lb. Dried Peas 3.68 .32 8.32 

2 lbs. Scrag of Mutton 5.44 1.92 

3 lbs. Potatoes---!--- - 96 .-.- 9.94 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 

2 lbs. Coromeal - 3.14 .90 19.50 

Jilb. Sugar --- .... 3.96 

M lb. Pat Cheese 1.00 1.56 .08 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 1.65 

Mlb. Buttei -- 3.33 

1)^ lbs.. Flour - - 2.88 .36 17.16 

Jilb. Suet-.- - ■ 3.92 

M lb. Molasses - --.- 2.48 

Cocoa Shells - 

Tea 

Total 21.14 13.78 87.99 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 



Cost 

in 
Cents. 

5 
16 

m 

6n) 
6 

m 
m 

7 
65TT 



2 
2 

•m 

78 



156 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Sunday, Sbptembbk. 
BreakfaM. Dinner. 

Oatmeal and Milk. Broiled Beef's Liver. 

Bread and Butter. Boiled Potatoes and Carrots 

Cocoa. with Fried Onions (p. 116). 

Bread and Cheese. 

Supper. 

Lentil Soup with Fried Bread (p. 118). 

Smoked Herring. 

Bread. Barley Porridge (p. 133). 

Prntpids TTnts CarbO- Cost 

J:'roteias. Jfats. hydrates. In 

oz. oz. 6z. Cents. 

IH lbs. Beef s Liver 4.80 .96 .... 15 

3 lbs. Potatoes-. 96 .... :9.94 m 

lib. Carrots .... 1.44 IH 

IH lbs. Oatmeal 3.48 1.44 15.60 7^ 

H lb. Lentils 2.04 .16 4.32 5 

lJ-5 qt. Whole Milk 1.74 1.85 2.48 1(% 

JlS lb. Sugar... .... 7.92 % 

}i lb. Pearl Barley .44 .06 2.86 2 

J^lb.Suet 3.92 .... 2 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

6 Smoked Herring ( 8 oz. ) 1.68 .68 .... 5 

Mlb. Butter 3.33 .... 6J4 

)4 lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 , L16 .... % 

Cocoa Shells .... .... 2 

Total 19.98 13.88 77.76 761*5 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



157 



Monday, September. 



Buckwheat Cakes. 

Fried Bacon. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Giblet Soup (p. 58). 

Baked Potatoes with 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Bread. 



Supper. 

Codfish Balls (p. 57). 

Cheese. 

Bread. Tea. 



Protelds. 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.M 

Giblets - 2.20 

3 lbs. Potatoes 98 

?i lb. Bacon 36 

4}^ lbs. Bread 4.32 

J^lb. Sugar _ _. 

94 lb. Fat Cheese 3. 

lib. Salt Codfish 4.80 

Tea 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

^ lb. Coffee 

Total 19.84 

Required 19.19 



Fats, 
oz. 
.64 
.13 



9.60 



2.48 
.16 



1.23 



15.59 

12.43 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 
23.30 

9.94 

37.36 
7.92 
.24 



1.65 



Cost 

in 

Cents. 

10 

8 

9 



80.41 
78.03 



im 

8 
2 
7 
£f_ 

76« 

78 



158 



Bills of Fare, Glass I. 



Fried Bacon. 
Boiled Potatoes. 
Bread. CofEee. 



Tuesday, September. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Corned Beef 

with Horseradish Sauce. 

Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 

Barley Porridge (p. 123). 

Snipper. 

Pea Soup. 

Yeast Biscuit and Butter. 

Stewed Fruit. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

IJ^ Its. Corn Beef 6.96 

3 lbs. Cabbage 80 

21bs. Flour 3.M 

aibs. Potatoes 64 

lib. Dried Peas 3.68 

3Hlbs.Bread 3.86 

Hlb. Bacon .24 

J4 lb. Butter 

iiVo. Suet 

^ lb. Pearl Barley 88 

Iqt. Skim Milk.... 1.06 

1 pt. Whole Milk 58 

)^ lb. Coffee.... 

3^1b. Sugar 

Fruit .... 

Total 22.04 

Bequired 19.19 



Fats. 

oz. 

1.54 



.48 



.32 



6.40 



.12 

.24 



15.29 
12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 



22.88 
6.62 



29.06 



5.72 

1.65 

.83 



7.9; 



85. 
78.03 



Cost 
in 
Cents. 
15 
6 
6 

5 



1 

4 
4 

3ii5 

3J^ 

3 



771 
78^ 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



159 



Saturday, January. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Bacon. 

Corn Bread (p. 103). 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Browned Flour Soup (p. 121). 
Stewed Mutton. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Bread. 



Supper. 

Baked Beans. Bread. 

Apple Dumplings (p. 108), 

with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 

Tea. 



Proteids. 
oz. 

3 lbs. Neck of Mutton 8.16 

311)8. Potatoes .98 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 

lib. Flour 1.92 

21bs. CornMeal 3.14 

lib. Beans 3.68 

J4 lb. Sugar — 

1^ lb. Bacon 24 

1^ lb. Suet. 

1^ lb. Coffee .... 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

Apples.. 

Tea 

Total 23.10 

Required 19.19 



Fats. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


02. 


oz. 


Cents. 


2.88 





24 




9.94 


m. 


.32 


33.20 


9^ 


.24 


11.44 


3 


1.20 


33.40 


6 


.32 


8..56 


5 





7.92 


m 


6.44 





6 


1.96 




1 







3j 


1.23 


1.65 


7 


.... 


.... 


3 

2 


14.59 


95.11 


754 
78 


12.42 


78.03 



160 Bills of Fare, Class I. 



StINDAT, JaNUAKT. 

Dinner. 

Fried Codfish. Sheep's Head Stew 

Bread and Butter. with Soda Biscuit Dumplings. 

Coffee. Baked Potatoes. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 
Cocoa. 



Potato and Onion Salad. 

Broiled Salt Pork. Bread. 

Corn Mush with Pudding Sauce (p. 113). 

Proteids. 
oz. 

3 lbs. Corn Meal 3.14 

Iqt. Skim Milk 1.06 

1 pt. Whole Milk. 58 

J^lb. Sugar-. 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 

1 lb. Salt Codfish 4.80 

H lb. Butter .... 

M lb. Skim Cheese 1.20 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

Mlb. SaltPork 12 

Mlb. Suet 

K lb. Flour 1.44 

1 Sheep's Head, assumed to 

contain Ti4 lbs. meat 4.08 

Onions 

Cocoa Shells... 

Coffee 

Total 20.58 

Eequired.. 19.19 



Fats. 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 

in 

Cents. 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.24 


1.65 


4 


.62 


.83 


% 




7.92 


m 


, .24 


24.90 


6^ 








8 


6.66 





im 


.53 


.20 


2' 




13.25 


5 


3.20 





3 


3.92 





2 


.18 


8.58 


ZM 


1.44 




12 




— - 


2 
2 
3| 


18.23 


79.73 


78 


12.42 


78.03 


78 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



161 



Breakfast. 



MoKDAT, January. 



Dinner. 



Fried Mush and Molasses. 
Bread. 
Coffee. 



Supper. 



Soup (from Boiled Beef) 

with Macaroni. 

Boiled Beef Flank 

with Mustard Sauce, 

Bean Puree. 

Bread. 



Boiled Potatoes with 

Butter Gravy. 

Dried Apple Roly Poly Pudding (p. 108). 

Bread. Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

21b. Beef Hank 6.72 

lib. Beans 3.68 

J^ lb. Dried Apples, .10 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 

21bs. Com Meal 3.U 

IHlbs. Flour 2.88 

M lb. Butter 

J4 lb. Suet.... 

M lb. Molasses 

J^ lb. Sugar 

Bibs, bread 2.88 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

M lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Mlb.Macaroni 36 

Total 21.56 

Required 19.19 

14 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 

02. 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


1.76 





16 


.33 


8.56 • 


5 





4.50 


6 


.... 


6.62 


2H 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.36 


17.16 


4^ 


3.33 





m 


3.92 





2 





2.48 


2H 





7.92 


% 


.24 
1.23 


24.90 
1.65 


3| 








2 


.02 


3.06 


39i 


12.38 
12.42 


99.25 
78.03 


li^ 



163 



Bills of Fare, Class I. 



Tuesday, Jasxiamy. 

Dinner. 

Fried Potatoes. Browned Farina Soup with 

Bread. Toast (p. 131). 

Coffee. Stewed Mutton, with 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Supper. 

Bean Soup. 

Milk Toast. 
Tea. 

Proteids Fats Carbo- Cost 

°^- °^- oz. Cents 

^Ibs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 .... 20 

Iqt. SMmMnk 1.06 .34 1.65 i 

IJ^lbs-Beans 5.62 .48 12.84 % 

M lb. Butter .... 3.33 .... 6^ ' 

}^ lb. Suet. 7.84 .... 4 

H lb- Sugar .... .... 7.92 ^ 

3 lbs. Potatoes .96 .... 9.94 4J^ 

1}<S lbs. Flour.... .- 2.88 .36 17.16 m 

1 qt. "Whole MUk 1.16 1.23 1.65 7 

31bs.Bread 2.88 .24 24.90 ByV 

Ji lb. Farina ■« — - 3.03 M 

%Vt> Coffee — - --- 3| 

Tea .-- 

Total .,.. 21.68 16.12 79.09 75 

.Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 78 



Bills of Fare, Class 11. 163 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS IL 



For family of six. Average price $1.36 per day, or 18 cts. 
per person. 

Tlie bills of fare in this class will not be given in detail. 
Taking those given for Class I as a basis, it is expected that 
certain luxuries will be added and a better quality of food 
used; the quantities of Proteid, Fat and Carbohydrate will 
then not be lowered, which is the point of greatest importance. 



164: Bills of Fare, Class III. 

BILLS OP PARE, CLASS III. 



For family of six. Average price, $1.38 per day, ot ?3 
cents per person. 

Saturday, Mat. 

Breakfast. Dmner. 

Oranges. Beef Soup with 

Egg Omelet on Egg Sponge (p. 3 28). 

Toast. Macaroni with Cheese (p. 90). 

Boiled Rice with Dandelion Greens. 

Milk and Sugar. Bread. 
Coffee. 



Sour Cream Soup (p. 134). 
Meat Croquettes (of soup meat) (p. 49). 
Graham Bread And Butter. 
Tea. Cake. 



Proteids 
oz. 

lib. Eice 1.28 

yilh. Sugar 

6 Oranges 

M lb. Macaroni.. 1.08 

4 lbs. Bread... 3.84 

2 lbs. Flour 3.84 

Mlb. Coffee 

2 qts. "Whole Milk 2.32 

10 Eggs 1.70 

^Ibs. Meat 8.40 

M lb. Butter ^ 

M lb. Fat Cheese. i. 2.00 

Sour Cream and flavors lor 

soup 

Tea 

Total 24.46 

Boqulred 19.19 



Fats 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates 


in 




oz. 


Cents 


.16 


12.24 


8 


.... 


7.92 


% 







10 




9.18 


12% 


.32 


33.22 


9i 


.48 


22.88 


6 




.... 


3f 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


1.60 


-,.- 


15 


2.20 





20 


9.99 





im 


2.32 


.16 


7H 


.... 


.... 


6 
2 


19.53 


88.90 


138iV 


■a.& 


78.03 


m 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



165 



Sunday, May. 



Dinner. 



Oatmeal Mush with sugar 
and milk. 
Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 



Ham and Eggs. 

Salad of Cold Beans and 

Lettuce 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Cocoa. 

Bread. 



Rice Pancakes (p. 93), with 

Sugar Syrup. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Tea. 



Proteids 
oz. 

9i lb. Oatmeal 1.74 

a lb. Coffee 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 qta. Whole Milk 2.32 

941b. Butter.. 

lib. Ham 3.84 

}^ lb. Suet 

12Eg-gs 2.04 

Cocoa 

31b8. Potatoes.. 96 

41bs. Bread 3.84 

}<5 Ib.Lettuce.... 10 

lib. Beans 3.68 

Bbubarb 

}<^lb.Eice 64 

lHlbs.riour 2.88 

Tea 

Salad Dressing.. 

Total 22.04 

Bequired 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 

02. 


Cost 

In 

Cents. 


0.72 


7.80 


3^ 








3| 





15.84 


7 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


9.99 




im 


5.84 





25 


1.96 





1 


1.92 




18 








4 





9.94 


3?i 


.32 


33.20 


9i 




.20 


5 


.32 


8.55 


5 








4 


.08 


6.12 


4 


.36 


17.16 


^ 








2 


.... 




6 


23.97 


102.11 


137 


12.42 


78.03 


138 



166 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, May. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Oranges. Roast Mutton and Bread 

Milk Toast. Dressing (p. 106). 

Coffee. Mashed Potatoes. 

Corn Mush with Sugar 

and Milk. 
Soda Cream (p. 136). 

Supper. 

Parsnip Soup (p. 119), with Yeast Dumplings (p. 128). 

Bread and butter. 

Sponge Cake. Tea. 

Protelds rats j^Carbo-^ Co_st 

°^- °^- oz. Cents 

^Ibs. Bread 3.36 .28 09.06 SjV 

3 1bs. Mutton_. '. 8.16 2.88 .... 4S 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.33 2.16 3.30 14 

li^lbs.Sugar .... 23.76 lOJ^ 

lib. Flour 1.92 .24 11.44 3 

!^ lb. Butter 6.66 .... 12^ 

J^lb. Coffee — - .... 3| 

6 Orangres ...: 10 

21b. Cornmeal 3.14 1.20 22.40 6 

4Bggs -- 68 .64 .... 6 

3 lbs. Potatoes .96 .... 9.94 ^ 

Tea .--- .... ... 2 

SodaCream — — — 3 

Parsnips - — — — 6 

Total. 20.54 14.36 99.90 136)4 

Eequlred — 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



Bills of Pare, Glass III. 167 



Tuesday, May. 

Dinner. 

Buttered Toast. Sorrel Soup (p. 120.) 

CofEee. , Fried Catfish. 

Canned Fruit. Noodles (p. 90.) 

Bread. 
Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Supper. 

Fried Mush. 
Stewed Rhubarb. 
Fresh Rusks and Butter (p. 98). 
Tea. 

Proteids. 
oz. 

Canned Fruit 

21bs. Com Meal 3.14 

31bs. Bread 2.88 

11^ qts. Whole Milk 1.74 

2 qts. Skim Milk 2.12 

Rhubarb ._. 

21bs. Flour _. 3.84 

llb.Butter 

}^ lb. Sugar 

Sorrel &c. for Soup 

i^Ib. Bice 64 

Mil). Suet 

3 lbs. Fresh Fish .-.. 8.00 

%Vb. CofEee .... 

4 Eggs .68 

Tea .- 

Total 23.04 

Keqmred 19.19 



Fats. 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 

in 
Cents. 







15 


1.20 


22.40 


6 


.24 


24.90 


6A 


1.86 


2.50 


lOH 


.48 


3.30 


8 








8 


.48 


22.88 


6 


13.33 





25 




7.92 


m 








5 


.08 


6.12 


4 


3.92 




2 


.24 


.... 


18 
3f 


.64 




6 








2 


2S.47 


90.02 


138 


12.42 


78.03 



168 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Satukdat, Sbptkmbbr. 



Breakfast. 

Hominy Mush with 
Sugar Syrup 
Stewed Pears. 

Toasted Crackers. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Plum Soup (p. 125). 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

Boiled Green Corn. 

Turnips and Potatoes (p. 

Bread. 

Apple Pie (p. 109). 

Supper. 



116). 



Irish Stew (p. 52). 

Biscuit and Butter. 

Yeast Doughnuts ( p. 99). 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats. 

oz. oz. 

llb.Hominy 1.58 .60 

Pears and Plums 

Zlbs. Bread 1.92 .16 

J<S lb. Crackers 50 

2 lbs. Beef Steak 6.72 1.76 

1 doz. Green Com 

2 lbs. Potatoes 64 

Apples 

llb.Turnips 15 

31bs. Flour 5.76 .64 

J^lb.Suet 1.96 

lib. Mutton 2.72 .96 

9ilb.Butter 9.99 

2 Eggs 34 .32 

Tea 

lib. Sugar 

Iqt. Whole Milk... 1.16 1.23 

'/gib. CofEee -... 

Total 20.83 17.62 

Required 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 

In 

Cents. 


11.20 


5 





5 


16.60 


4 


4.15 


5 





36 





15 


6.62 


m 





4 


1.12 


oA 


34.32 


9 





1 





8 


--- 


18% 

4i 





2 


15.84 


7 


1.65 


7 


.... 


3f 


91.50 


138^ 


78.03 


138" 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 169 



Sunday, Skptembek. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 

Sour Milk Pancakes with Green Com Soup (p. 130). 

Sugar Syrup (p. 103). Fricaseed Chicken (p. 57). 

Sausage. Bread. Potatoes and Carrots (p. 116). 
Cucumbers. with Fried Onions. 

Coffee. Bread. 

Supper. 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. 108. 
Water Toast. 
Radishes. 
Tea. 

Protelds. 
oz. 

Badishes 

lib. Sausage 2.32 

M lb. Sugar 

IH qts. Whole Milk 1.74 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 

J^ doz. Green Corn 

An Old Chicken ( 3 lbs. ) 9.00 

2 lbs. Potatoes 60 

)^lb. Carrots 

Cucumbers 

IJ^ lb. Flour 2.88 

Hlb. Farina 84 

}4 lb. Butter 

Iqt. Sour Milk 1.06 

Coffee 

Tea 

2 Eggs 34 

Total 21.66 

Required 19.19 

15 



Fats. 


Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


oz. 


Cents. 







3 


6.00 




12 


.... 


9.90 


5Ji 


1.86 


2.48 


lOJi 


.24 


24.90 


6A 


-... 





7J6 


1.90 





50 





6.60 


2Ji 





.72 


1 








2 


.36 


17.16 


^ 





6.00 


^ 


3.33 


.--- 


6M 


.24 


1.65 


4 


.... 


.... 


3f 

2 

4j 


.32 


.:.. 


U.24 


69.41 


127f 


12.42 


78.03 


X38 



170 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Monday, Septembbk. 



Codfish Balls. 

Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 

Stewed Apples. 



Dinner. 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lemonade. 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Berry Holy Poly (p. 108). 

Cheese. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fats, 
oz. oz. 

?41b. Codfish 3.60 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

31t)s.Bread 2.88 .34 

Jilb.Butter 9.99 

2 qts. Whole MUk 2.33 2.46 

lib. Sugar ___ _ 

2^1bs. Beef 8.40 2.20 

3 lbs. Tomatoes 

Lemons _ 

l^lb.Flour 3.88 .36 

H lb. Fat Cheese .-. 2.00 2.32 

Jglb.Coffee 

Tea 

Fruit 

Total.— 24.86 17.57 

Eequlred 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- Cost 
hydrates. in 
oz. Cents. 



13.24 
24.90 



3.30 
15.84 



4.00 



17.16 
.18 



78.62 
78.03 



6 

18« 

14 

7 
40 

5 

7 

% 

3| 

2 

10 

137 
138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 171 



Tuesday, September. 

BreakfaM. Dinner. 

Broiled Mackerel. Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 

Stewed Potatoes. Roast Mutton 

Bread and Butter. with Bread Stuffing. 

Coffee. Boiled Beets. 

Bread Pudding (p. Ill, No. 2). 

Supper. 

Apple Fritters (p. 114), 

witli Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 



Protelds. Fata. 



Carbo- Cost 
hydrates. in 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

l)41b3.Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 ^ 

4Egga 68 .64 .... Sj 

2qts. Whole Milk -.- 2.33 2.46 3.30 14 

llb.Sugrar .... 15.84 7 

>^ll). Suet 1.96 .... 1 

2Hlbs. Mutton 6.80 2.40 .... 40 

21bs.Beets .... 3.00 5 

1^ lbs. Salt Mackerel 4.56 3.00 .... IBM 

11^ lbs. Potatoes .48 .... 4.96 1t% 

41bs. Bread 3.84 .32 33.20 9^ 

Hlb.Butter 6.66 .... 12^ 

Sour Cream and Apples 8 

i^lb.CofEee .... .... 3| 

Tea -- - .... .... .... 2 

Total.. -. 21.56 17.80 79.46 13% 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.03 138 



m 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Saturday, Jandakt. 



Dinner. 



Buckwheat Cakes and 

Sugar Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

CofEee. 



Roast Fresh Pork, with 

Apple Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Indian Pudding (p. 110). 

Bread. 



Supper. 



Herring and Potato Salad. 

Lentils, with Prunes (p. 116). 

Bread and Butter. 

Tea. 

Proteids. Fata. 

oz. oz. 

2 lbs. Sncfewheat Flour 3.M .64 

11^ IDs. Corn Meal 2.28 .91 

IID. Butter .... 13.33 

Jilt. Sugar... 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1.16 1.23 

Apples 

% lbs. Fresh Pork 8.00 2.80 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 

2 Eggs .3i .32 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.16 .2i 

31bB. Bread 2.88 .24 

Klb.LentUs 2.04 .16 

^ lb. Prunes IB 

}^ lb. Coffee 

Tea 

6 Herrings .— 1.68 .68 

Salad Dressing — — 

Total.. 23.69 20.65 

Eequired 19.19 12.42 



Carbo- 


Cost 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Cents. 


23.20 


10 


16.80 


^ 


-.-- 


25 


11.88 


BM 


1.65 


7 





1 


-■— 


37J4 


9.94 


3^' 


— - 


ii 


1.65 


4 


24.90 


6* 


4.32 


5 


3.80 


5 





3| 


-.— 


2 





5 





5 


98.14 


ISIii 


78.03 


138 



Bills of Fare, Glass III. 



173 



Milk Toast. 

Fried Potatoes. 

CoflEee. 



Sunday, Januakt. 

Dinner. 

Cold Roast Pork, 

Noodles (p. 90). 

Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Corn Coffee (p. 135). 

Supper. 

Potato Soup (p. 118). Grated Cheese. 

Bread and butter. 

Raised Cake (p. 98). Canned Fruit. 

Tea. 



Proteida 
oz. 

M lb- I^t Cheese 1.08 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1.28 

21bs. Flour.. 3.84 

i Eg-gs 68 

2 qts. Whole Milk 2.32 

1 qt. SMm Milk 1.06 

M lb. Butter 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 lbs. Fresh Pork 6.40 

21bg. Cabbage 80 

}^lb. Elce .64 

31b8. Bread 2.88 

Com (dry grain) 

Canned Fruit 

J^lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Total 20.98 

Bequlred 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
oz. 


Cost 
in 

Cents 


.95 


i06 


3M 





13.24 


5 


48 


22.88 


6 


.64 





S'A 


2.46 


3.30 


14 


.24 


1.65 


4 


9.99 





im 





15.42 


1 


2.24 





30 





1.60 


8 


.08 


6.12 


4 


.24 


24.90 


6A 








2 






10 








3f 




.... 


2 


17.32 


89.17 


138 


12.42 


78.03 



174 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



Breakfast. 
Buckwheat Cakes. 



Coffee. 
Apple Sauce. 



Monday, January. 

JHnne/r. 
Pea Soup (p. 118). 

Roast Beef. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Barley Gruel (p. 121). 



Potato Soup with Egg and Bread Balls (p. 128). 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Canned Fruit. Tea. 



Protelds 
oz. 

2 lbs. Buckwheat Flour 3.04 

lib. Sausage 3.32 

21ba. Beef B.fa 

3 lbs. Potatoes ...- .96 

3 lbs. Tomatoes (canned at 

home) 19 

31bs. Bread-... 2.88 

2 Eggs .34 

J^lb. Barley .88 

1 qt. Whole Milk 1.16 

J^lb. Sugar.. 

1 lb. Dried Peas 3.68 

J6 lb. Butter 

Canned Fruit 

J^lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Apples 

Total 22.1T 

Required .'.. 19.19 



Fats 
oz. 

.64 
6.00 
1.76 



M 
.32 
.12 
1.23 

.32 
6.66 



17.29 
12.42 



Carbo- Cost 
hydrates. in 
oz. Cents 

23.20 10 

12 



9.94 

3.50 
24.90 

5.72 
1.65 
7.92 
8.32 



85.15 
78.03 



6 

6A 
4i 
4 
7 

m. 

5 

12^ 
10 

3f 

2 

5 

1271 
138 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



ITS 



Tuesday, January. 



Graham Biscuits. 
Fried Bacon. Apple Sauce. 
Coffee. 



Dinner. 



Boiled Mutton. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Winter Squash. 

Dried Apple Short Cake 

■with Pudding Sauce. 

Corn CofEee. 



Mutton and Bean Broth. 

Bread and Butter. 

Cheese. Tea. 

Cookies. 



Proteids 
oz. 

9i lb. Baoon 36 

H It)- dried Apples 10 

lib. Beans 3.68 

J-4 lb. Fat Cheese 1.00 

1 lb. Sugar 

2 qts. Whole MUk 3.32 

^lb8.Mutton 6.80 

3 1b. Potatoes .-.- .96 

2 lbs. Winter Squash 16 

Cookies - 

21bs. Bread 1.93 

2J^ lbs. Flour 4.80 

J4Ib. Butter 

J^lb.Coffee 

Tea .... 

Apples 

Total 32.10 

Required 19.19 



Fate 
oz. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
oz. 


Coste 

in 

Cent 


9.66 





9 





4.44 


6 


.33 


8.56 


5 


1.16 





m 





15.84 


7 


3.46 


3.30 


14 


2.40 





30 





9.94 


m 





3.20 


10 








15 


.16 


16.60 


4* 


.60 


27.94 


SH 


3.33 





m 



20.09 
12.42 



78:03 



133^ 
138 



TWELYE COLD DIISTE'EES. 



If a man is to eat a cold dinner for months or eren 
for weeks, it is quite worth while to make that din- 
ner as good as it can be, and to pack it nicely for carry- 
ing Every one knows how it can take the edge off 
even a keen appetite to find his sandwich smeared 
with apple pie, or his cake soaked with vinegar from 
the pickles. That a box or basket of given dimen- 
sions should hold as much as possible, and keep the 
different kinds of food separate, it must be divided 
into compartments. 

Simplest — an oblong basket, — divide into two 
compartments by a piece of pasteboard cut so that 
it slips in rather tightly, then line the two compart- 
ments with nice wrapping paper put in fresh every 
day. It may be divided into four parts in the same 
way. A close fitting tin spice box is nice for holding 
cheese. A tiny "salve" box should contain salt and 
pepper mixed. Sew leather straps on the cover of the 
basket inside, for holding knife, fork and spoon. 

Put a strap around the basket that you may hang 
from it a little pail containing cold soups recom- 
mended for drinks in summer. 

Cold puddings should be wrapped in strong writ- 
ing paper, then in wrapping paper and pinned close. 

176 



Twelve Cold Dinners. 



177 



COLD DINNERS FOR SUMMER. 



1. Bread and butter. 

Salad of potatoes and cold 

baked flsh. 

Cold boiled beet. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Apple Soup. 

3. Corn Bread. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Baked sweet apples. 

Custard pie. 

Plum Soup 

3. Bread and butter. 

Cold veal. 

Hard boiled eggs. 

Pickled beets. 

Cherry Pie. 



4. Chopped beef sandwiches. 

Salad of Lima Beans. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Irish Moss Lemonade. 



5. Graham bread. 

Cold roast mutton. 

Cucumbers and salt. 

Pumpkin pie. 

Soda cream. 

6. Bread and butter. 

Dried Beef. Crackers. 

Cheese. Sponge cake. 

Cold coffee. 



COLD DINNERS FOR WINTER. 



7. Bread. 

Cold boiled pork. 

Cold baked beans with 

mustard and vinegar. 

Doughnuts. 

Apple pie. 

Cold coffee. 

8. Yeast biscuits and butter. 

Cold chicken. 

Pickles. 

Cold rice pudding. 

Apples. 

9. Cold soda biscuits. 

Veal and ham sandwiches. 

Saratoga potatoes. 

Mince pie. 



10. Biscuits and butter with 

honey. 

Cold corn beef and rye 

bread. 

Dried apple tarts. 

Cheese. 



11. Bread and butter. 

Smoked Herring. 

Pickled beans. 

Gingerbread. 

Apples. 

12. Corn bread and butter. 
Cold roast beef and white 

bread. 

Bread and apple pudding. 

Bread cake. 



IIsTDEX. 



PAGE. 

Apple dumplings 109 

pie 109 

water 136 

Apples, food value of 84 

Bacon, balls in soup - 128 

broiled 54 

fried _ 54 

with cabbage 54 

Barley, analysis of 80 

to cook 86 

porridge 122 

with prunes 86 

insoup _ 137 

Beanflour 82 

soup __ 117 

Beans, cellulose in 82 

to cook 115 

digestlbUity of 77, 82 

proteidin 81 

with prunes 116 

Beef, analysis of, compared, 26, 27 

baked 41 

boiled 40 

broiled 43 

corned 47 

croquettes 49 

friedinfat... 40 

hash 48 

heart 48 

liver _ 47 

pie 46 

pressed 49 

re-cooked 48 

stew 40 

tripe 48 

Biscuit, graham 102 

soda 102 

soda in puddings 108 

yeast 97 

179 



PAGE. 

BiUs of Fare, explanation of 142 
Class I, introduction to.. 143 

ClassI 151 

Class II 163 

Class III 164 

Boimy Clabber 64 

Bread, corn 97 

dressing 106 

additional facts about ... 96 

in foreign countries 16 

fritters 114 

graham 96 

making 94 

making, principles in- 
volved in 91 

omelet.. 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding 110 

re-baked 106 

rye... 97 

steamed 99 

stale, steamed 106 

soup 121 

uses for 105 

Buckwheat, analysis of 80 

pancakes 100 

Buns, plain 1 98 

fruit 98 

Butter, artificial 70 

substitutes for 68 

to try out 71 

Buttermilk cheese (see Cot- 
tage cheese). 

to keep fresh 64 

pudding 108 

soup 123 

uses for 64 

Cake, raised 98 

Johnny 103 



180 



Index. 



PAGE. 

Cake, short 103 

short, strawberry 108 

Carbohydrates 6 

amount in diet 76 

containing foods 75 

digestibility of 77 

function of 9 

Cellulose- 75 

inbeans 76 

its uses '. 82 

Charcoal, use of 21, 43 

Chocolate .-.. 134 

soup 123 

Cheese, oottag-e --. 64 

cooked with bread 61 

digestibility of 30 

fondamin 62 

food value of 29 

grated 61 

proteidin _. 5 

use abroad 30 

Chicken, fricaseed 57 

soup 57 

Cider, bottled _. 136 

soup 124 

Coffee 133 

corn 135 

Com (Indian), analysis of 80 

bread 97,103 

flour 87 

gruel 135 

mush 87 

pancakes 87, 104 

pone 88 

porridge 122 

pudding 107 

Croquettes, meat 49 

Dietary, army.. 66 

Bavarian 67 

standard .3, 10-13 

of poorfamily 12 

Dinners, Twelve Cold 175 

Doughnuts 99 

Drinksat meals 133 

Economy, its true scope 13 

Egg dishes 59 



PASS. 

Eggs, food value of 29, 58 

hard boiled 50 

omelets '- 60 

proteidin 5 

raw 50 

soft boiled 50 

Egg sponge for soup 128 

Farina, pudding 108 

soup 1 121 

Pats in army dietary 66 

different, eompared 69 

digestibility of 68 

function of 9 

importance of 67 

uses of in cooking 71 

Fishballs 57 

fresh 55 

foodvalueof 28 

chowder 55 

salt: 56 

soup 56 

Mavorings-. 9,130 

Flour, fine wheat 89 

raised with egg 92 

reused with soda 100 

raised with yeast 93 

qualityof 94 

Fondamin 62 

Food Principles, definition of ' 4 

functions of 7 

proportion of in diet 10 

Fritters 113 

bread ^114 

egg-raised 113 

BOda^ralsed 113 

fruit 114 

Fruits, digestibility of 84 

dried 84 

fritters 114 

foodvalueof 83 

soups 124 

puddings 108 

Gelatine, history of 22 

Graham biscuits. 103 

bread 96 

gems 88 



Index. 



181 



PAGE. 

Graham, pancakes 104 

Grains, analysis of 80 

cooldngof 85 

Grapes, sugar in 84 

Gruels 135 

Ham, cakes 54 

croquettes 54 

boiled 53 

broiled 54 

fried 54 

sandwiches 53 

Hash, meat 48 

Heatsaver 44 

Hominy, fried 87 

Mushes, fried 87 

to make 86 

other uses for 87 

Introduction 1 

Kitchen, arrangement of 18 

utensils 19 

Lard 72 

Lentils, to cook 115 

food value of 81 

soup 118 

Lemonade, Irish moss 136 

Macaroni, to cook 89 

iusoup 129 

with tomatoes 90 

Marrow 71 

Meat balls in soup 129 

consumption of 11 

methods of cooking 32 

structure of 32 

tough, to make tender... 45 

Milk, analysis of 63 

canning 63 

sour, usesfor 64 

Mintsauce 74 

Muffins 93 

Mutton, modes of cooking .. 51 

Noodles 90 

Noodle soup 91 

Oats, food value of 79 

analysis of 80 

Oatmeal gruel 135 

pancakes 86 



PAGE, 

Oatmeal, mush 86 

Omelets (see Eggs). 

Oils, for frying 41 

Pancakes, soda 87, 103 

egg-raised 93 

yeast-raised 99, 100, 104 

Parsnip soup 119 

Pears, food valiie of 84 

Peas Split, to cook 115 

foodvalueof 118 

Pea soup 118 

Plumsoup 124 

Piecrust 92 

apple 109 

Pork and apples 55 

and beans.. 55 

ways of cooking 55 

foodvalueof 27 

Potato, cooking of the 115 

crust 46 

foodvalueof 82 

omelet 114 

soup 118 

Porridges 122 

Proteids 5 

function of 7 

containing foods 22 

vegetable 78 

Pudding, Berry Betty 110 

bread 110 

bread and butter HI 

Brown Betty 110 

buttermilk 108 

custard 110 

farina 108 

Indian .107, 110 

individual HI 

minute 107 

rice 110 

sago 110 

sauce 112 

suet 112 

tapioca 110 

Bice, analysis of 80 

foodvalueof 79 

to cook 85 



182 



Index. 



FAGE. 

Rice, gruel 135 

omelet 60 

pancakes 93 

pudding lOT, 110 

Rolls 87 

Rusks - 98 

Rye flour, anulysis of 80 

bread 97 

Salts- 6 

Sauces, drawn butter 73 

meat... 74 

Sokwaben Spetzel 128 

Sick, cookery for tbc 136 

Starch, in dietary 78 

digestibility of 77 

SodaCreaffi 136 

Sorrel soup 120 

Soup, additions to 126 

analysis of 24 

flsh 121 

fruit 124 

meat, to make 33 

milk 89,122 

use of in Europe.. 16 

vegetable 117 

SI 



PAOB. 

Sugar, consumption of 15 

food value of 80 

Suet pudding. 112 

totryout 40 

uses of.. .71,72 

Tea 134 

Thermometer, use of 43 

Tomato omelet 61 

sauce 74 

soup 119 

Tripe, to cook 48 

Veal, modes of cooki ng 50 

Vegetable food, digestibility 

of 77 

Vegetables, cooking of 115 

food value of 83 

withfruits 116 

mixed... 116 

soups 117 

Water 5 

Wheat 79 

analysis of 80 

flour, cooking of 89-104 

Welshrarebit 68 



THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH 

ASSOCIATION, 

Organized in 1872 by a few eminent sanitarians, has grown 
in fourteen years to be the strongest and ablest association of 
its kind in America, if not in the world, and contains in its list 
of members, physicians, lawyers, clergymen, teachers, en- 
gineers, architects, and representatives of other trades and 
professions. Its influence has been felt in the legislative halls 
of the nation, as well as in every state and territory, for the 
amelioration of sickness and suffering, and the prolongation of 
human life. 

The fourteen large and elegant volumes it has published are 
in themselves a monument to American hygiene, while their 
precepts and teachings have been felt through all ranks and 
grades of society, from the workshop to the mansion of the 
millionaire. No library is complete in its literature of sanita- 
tion without these works. 

Each member of the Association receives a copy of the 
annual volume free of expense. This work alone is worth 
more to any Individual than the cost of membership. 

EXTEACT FROM CONSTITUTION, Art. III. 

The members of this Association shall be known as Active 
and Associate. The Executive Committee shall determine for 
which class a candidate shall be proposed. The Active mem- 
bers shall constitute the permanent body of the Association, 
subject to the provisions of the Constitution as to continuance 
in membership. They shall be selected with special reference 
to their acknowledged interest in or devotion to sanitary studies 
and allied sciences, and to the practical application of the 
same. The Associate members shall be elected with special 
reference to their general interest only in sanitary science, and 
shall have all the privileges and publications of the Associa- 
183 



184 American PuUic Health Association. 

tion, but shall not be entitled to vote. All members shall be 
elected as follows: 

Each candidate for admission shall first be proposed to the 
Executive Committee in writing (which may be done at any- 
time), with a statement of the business or profession, and 
special qualifications, of the persons so proposed. On recom- 
mendation of a majority of the committee, and on receiving a 
vote of two thirds of the members present at a regular meeting, 
the candidate shall be declared duly elected a member of the 
Association. The annual fee of membership in either class, 
shall be five dollars. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE AMEEICAN 

PUBLIC health: association. 

PUBLIC HEALTH : Reports ajstd Papers op the 
American Public Health Asbociation. Volumes 1 to 14 
inclusive and one volume to be issued annually. These vol- 
umes contain the papers presented at the annual meetings of 
the Association, with the discussions upon each, and constitute 
large and very handsome works. Each member of the Asso- 
ciation is entitled to the annual volume. A small edition is 
also placed in the hands of the treasurer for sale. At the 
present time there are but few complete sets on hand, and 
these are beiing rapidly taken by libraries. 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECT ANTS: Their Ap- 
plication and Use rs the Prjevbntion and Treatment 
OP Disease, and ih Public and Private Sanitation, by 
the Committee on Disinfectants, appointed by the American 
Public Health Association. 

The following is the list of authors of this work: GtEORGE M. 
Sternberg, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and Fellow by 
Courtesy in the Johns Hopkins University; Joseph H. Ray- 
mond, M. D., Professor of Physiology and Sanitary Science in 
Long Island College Hospital; Victor C. Vaughan, M. D. , 
Ph. D., Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Univer- 
sity of Michigan, and Member of the Michigan State Board of 



Lovib Prize Essays. 185 

Health; CnAKi,ES Smaut, M. D., Surgeon U. S. Army, and 
member of the National Board of Health; Geobgb H. Rohe, 
M. D., Professor of Hygiene in the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Baltimore; Joseph Holt, M. D., President of the 
Louisiana State Board of Health; Samuel H. Ddrgin, M. D., 
health officer of Boston; and J. R. Duggan, M. D. 

The original experimental investigations made by these 
specialists are of great importance and value, and render this 
work the moat complete and practical volume upon dlsinfec 
tion and disinfectants yet published. A large amount of 
original work is devoted to the various micro-organisms, and 
in determining the value of many of the so-called disinfectants 
and germicides. The biological work was conducted mostly 
at the Johns Hopkins University under the Supervision of Dr. 
Sternberg, and at the University of Michigan under Dr. 
Vaughan. Various apparatus used for disinfecting purposes, 
as well as the admirable quarantine system at New Orleans, 
are fully described and illustrated. The chapter on Pto- 
maines, by Dr. Vaughan, is of great value. 

The labors and investigations of these gentlemen extended 
over a period of three years, and involved no inconsiderable 
expense. 

The work consists of two hundred and sixty-flve pages, with 
sixty-eight illustrations, printed upon very heavy paper made 
especially for this volume, and is elegantly bound in handsome 
English cloth. The price has been placed at the low figure of 
two dollars per volume. Sent postpaid on receipt of price. 

LOME PRIZE ESSAYS. 

These exceedingly valuable essays, written by authors of 
great ability, and selected as the best out of many received in 
competition, by committees of award who were selected by 
the American Public Health Association, the Conference of 
State Boards of Health, and the National Board of Health, and 
whose names alone guarantee the high character of the works, 
are being placed before the public at cost, through means 



186 Loml Prize Essays. 

that are being furnished the American PuMic Health Asso- 
ciation. 

No. I. Healthy Homes and Foods for the Worliing-Classes. 
By Prof. Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Judges: — Dr. E. M. Moore, Pres. State Bd. of Health, Roch- 
ester, N. Y.; Dr. C. W. Chancellor, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, 
Baltimore, Md. ; Medical Director Albert L. Gihon, U.S. Navy, 
Washington, D. C. ; Dr. J. H. Raymond, Health Commissioner, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. ; Major Charles Smart, Surgeon U. 8. A., 
Washington, D. C. 

SYNOPSIS OF CONTBKTS. 

Location; the cellar; the walls; the floors; arrangement of 
rooms; the windows; heating and ventilation; water-supply; 
the disposal of waste: the surroundings; the care of the home; 
buying or renting a house; tenement-houses; foods and food 
stuffs; the nutritive value of foods; the economic value of 
foods. Animal foods; — general properties; methods of cook- 
ing meat; milk; butter; cheese. Vegetable foods; — cereals and 
grains; flour and meal; bread; pease and beans; potatoes; 
other vegetables; starches; sugars; fruits; nuts; vegetable oils; 
condiments; tea; coffee; chocolate. 
8vo paper, 63 pp. Price 10 cts. 

Same in Bnglish-Gterman (alternate pages in German) .15. 

No. 2. The Sanitary Conditions and Necessities of School- 
Houses and Scoool-Life. By D. F. Lincoln, M. D., 
Boston, Mass. 

Judges: — Hon. Erastus Brooks, LL. D., State Bd. of Health, 
New York; Dr. H. P. Walcott, State Bd. of Health, Lunacy, 
and Charity, Cambridge, Mass. ; Dr. Granville P. Conn, Pres. 
State Bd. of Health, Concord, N. H. ; John Eaton, Commis- 
sioner of Education, Washington, D. 0. ; Col. George E. War- 
ing, Jr., C. E., Newport, R. L 

Site: dampness, the cellar, contamination of soil and air, 



Loml) Prize Essays. 187 

drainage, foundation walls, neighborhood, etc. Plan and ar- 
rangement of the building; architecture, doors, windows, 
recitation and class-rooms, stairways, fire escapes, etc. Ven- 
tilation and heating; amount of fresh air and cubic space re- 
quired, introduction of fresh air, carbonic acid gas exhaled, 
dimensions of ventilating apparatus, size of flues, circulation 
of air in room, ventilating by steam power, "indirect" heat- 
ing, testing atmosphere of school-room, source of air supply, 
water closets, ventilatingstoves, open windows, ventilators, 
etc. Sewerage: bad air dangerous to health, waste-pipes, 
traps, ventilation of traps, closets, flush-tanks, urinals, privies, 
disinfectants. Hygiene of the eye: nearsightedness, rules for 
using the eyes, location of windows, type used in school- 
books, curtains, and blinds. School desks and gymnastics: 
construction of seats, physical training. Affections of the 
nervous system: competition for prizes, lack of exercise, dress. 
Contagious diseases in schools. Sanitary supervision. This 
work contains fifteen illustrations. 
8vo paper, 38 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

No. 3. Disinfection and Individual Prophylaxis against 
Infectious Diseases. By George M. Sternberg, M.D., 
Major and Surgeon TJ. S. A. 

Judges:— Dr. S. H. Durgin, Health Officer, Boston, Mass.; 
Dr. J. E. Reeves, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Wheeling, W.Va. ; 
Dr. Gustavas Devron, Pres. Aux. San. Assn., New Orleans, 
La.; Prof. Richard McSherry, M. D., Baltimore, Md.; Prof. 
James L. Cabell, LL. D., University of Virginia, Va. 

Disinfection; groups of disinfectants. 

Group I. — 1. Fire; 2. Steam under pressure; 3. Boiling 
water; 4. Chloride of lime; 5. Liquor, soda chlorinatse; 6. 
Mercuric chloride. 

Group II. — 7. Dry heat; 8 Sulphur dioxide; 9. Carbolic 
acid; 10. Sulphate of copper; 11. Chloride of zinc; general 
directions for disinfection; disinfection of excreta, etc.; dis 
infection of person ; disinfection of clothing and bedding; 



188 Lomh Prize Essays. 

disinfection of the sick room; disinfection of privy vaults, 
cess pools, etc.; hospitals; disinfection of water and articles of 
food; disinfection of ships; merchandise. Individual prophy- 
laxis against infectious diseases; cholera; yellow fever; small- 
pox; scarlet fever; diphtheria; tuberculosis; typhoid fever; 
concluding remarks, etc. 

This essay is undoubtedly the best ever written in the 
English language upon the prevention of disease, and ought 
to be placed in the hands of eveiy family. 

8vo paper, 40 pp. Price, 5 cts. 

Same in English German (alternate pages in German) .10. 

No. 4. The Preventable Causes of Disease, Injury, and 
Death in American Manufactories and Workshops, 
and the Best Means and Appliances for Preventing 
and avoiding Them. By George H. Ireland, Spring- 
field, Mass. 
Judges:— Dr. E. M. Hunt, Sec'y State Bd. of Health, Tren- 
ton, N. J.; Dr. A. N. Bell, Editor Sanitarian, New York City; 
Major George M. Sternberg, S .rgeon, U. S. A., Baltimore, 
Md.; Major John S. Billings, LL. D., U. S. A., Washington, 
D. C; Mr. W. P. Dunwoody, Secretary National Board of 
Health, Washington, D. C. 

Construction of workshops; elevators; fire-escapes ; sanitary 
condition; plumbing; ventilation; sunlight; heating; lighting; 
precaution against fires; dust in factories; ice supply ; handling 
heavy goods; machinery; saws and moulding machines; grind- 
stones; railroading; emergencies; contagious diseases; cleanli- 
ness; facilities for workmen, etc. 

8vo paper, 20 pages. Price, 5 els. 

The four essays, in one volume of nearly two hundred large 
octavo pages, thoroughly indexed., bound in cloth, 50 cts. 

The same printed upon extra heavy paper made especially 
for this edition, and bound in expensive brown cloth with gold 
and black finish, making an elegant and handsome volume, 
$0.75. 



FOOD OF CHILDREN 



AND 



SOME EEMAEKS ON 
HOUSEHOLD MAI^AGEMENT 



BY 



MART HINMAN ABEL. 
^ 1900 -^ 



These Two Additional Papers have been submitted to the 
Members of the Executive Committee op the Amer- 
ican Public Health Association, who heabtilt 
approve their publication in this 
Volume. 



FOOD OF.CHILDEEK 



ITS IMPOItTANCB. 



The importance of proper food for a child is now 
well recognized. The high infant mortality among 
the poor is probably due to improper food more than 
to any other one cause. And when death does not 
result, a stunted body or mind or a tendency to ill- 
ness may bear witness to a lowered vitality. Con- 
sider how the parts of a growing child are faith- 
fully reproduced year after year, the features, 
the shape of limbs ; even a scar or deformity seen in 
the child of three is recognized in the same child 
five years after, or when he has grown to man- 
hood. If bony and muscular structure and the nerve 
cells be not rightly laid down in childhood, the 
muscles firm instead of flabby, the bones hard, and 
all fed with blood containing the proper elements, 
harm may result which can never be quite remedied. 
Gardeners tell us that the effect of a poor and dry 
soil on -a young plant cannot be remedied later by 
even the best of care. A part of the process employed 
to produce the Japanese dwarf tree is to give it just 
soil and water enough to keep it from dying until the 
small distorted limbs and scant foliage have become 
a fixed type. After that time, larger rations have 
no efiect in increasing the size; the tree remains 
dwarfed. 



4 Food for Children. 

True, there is an elasticity in the youthful organ- 
ism that can be relied on to react if adverse condi- 
tions are not too great or too long continued, bat even 
the most healthy child has little surplus to draw on, all 
goes to the building process; therefore he succombs 
to privations which the grown man would tide over. 
The adult is a tough survival and is little affected 
comparatively by hygienic conditions, as bad air and 
food or a strain of excitement, thab would make a 
child puny for life. A large proportion should reach 
a vigorous maturity; it is very significant that nearly 
one-half of the deaths that occur are of children 
under five years. 

THE FIRST YEAR. 

For the baby, its own mother's milk is the ideal 
food until it is nine months old, and since it is the 
food provided by nature for this age, there is some 
risk in using any substitute whatever; therefore if a 
mother can nurse her child, it is her manifest duty. 
The sick baby is, in three cases out of four, the bot- 
tle-fed baby. Even two or three months of nursing 
gives the child an invaluable start. But when the 
baby must have other food, physicians are agreed 
that it should be nothing else than properly diluted 
and modified cow's milk. Those who have given the 
closest attention to the subject consider that patent 
foods, no matter how well recommended, should be 
shunned, since they in most cases contain substances 
for whose digestion the infant stomach is not fitted, 
and are in general poor in fats, one of the most esen- 
tjal elements. This lack of the proper quantity of 



Food for Children. 5 

fat in form of cream also condemns condensed milk 
as an infant food. The common error is to suppose 
that the baby's digestive apparatus is like our own, 
only smaller, — that the child is a little man. But 
the fact is, its digestiTe tract is in some respects dif- 
ferent from that of the adult. This difference is 
mainly in its action on starchy foods which are di- 
gested, it will be remembered, by means of ferments 
contained in the saliva of the mouth and in that of 
the pancreas which is poured into the small intestine. 
In the new born child there is barely enough saliva 
to moisten the mouth, and the starch digesting fer- 
ment is found in only the smallest quantities any- 
where in the intestinal tract up to the age of two 
months. After the child is six months old the sali- 
vary glands increase considerably in size, and there 
are evidences that nature is preparing to digest other 
than animal food. 

Therefore flour gruels so often recommended for 
infants, are entirely unfitted to a child until eight or 
nine months, or more safely, a year old. Cow's milk 
remains the standard substitute for human milk. It 
is a little less sweet, but it differs mainly by contain- 
ing a much larger percentage of the proteid or nitro- 
genous constituent of milk, called casein, which 
seems also to be different in character, as it forms in 
clots in the stomach, whereas human milk coagulates 
in soft jelly-like curds. When cow's milk is substi- 
tuted for human milk we must reduce the amount of 
casein by diluting it with water, but this will at the 
same time reduce the sugar and fat below what is 
found in human milk, so that a little cream and 



6 Food for Gliildren. 

sugar should be added. If the mother understands 
the reasons for these additions to cow's milk in order 
that it may resemble human milk, she will more care- 
fully follow the directions of the physician, for in 
every case where the child must be brought up by 
hand, a physician should be consulted as to suitable 
food. ' For safety, the milk is generally ordered 
cooked, although it doubtless loses something in the 
process. Some physicians insist that the greatest 
care should be taken in procuring pure milk, that it 
may be taken uncooked. 

The bottle should be the boat-shaped one, the nip- 
ple, the simple cap, and it requires to be frequently - 
renewed. The bottles, of which there should be two 
in use alternately, should be washed out and scalded 
after each meal, and left to soak in boiled water that 
has been cooled. A cloth wound round a stick is 
better for cleaning the bottle than a brush. 

The child should not be left to take its own meal, 
but the bottle held so that it may not drink too fast, 
or take in air. The long rubber tube sometimes 
used, is too difl&cult to keep clean, and should never 
be allowed. Children of only a few months may be 
taught to drink from a cup, and should take in that 
way a small part of their daily nourishment. This 
relieves the mother, and makes weaning much more 
easy and safe. 

FEOM ONE TO FOUR YEARS. 

Statistics show that the mortality is much greater 
between these ages than a little later, and great vigil- 
ance is necessary to prevent illness. Consider what 



Food for Children. 7 

the infant's food has been as furnished by the moth- 
er's milk, warm, germ frc6, perfectly proportioned to 
its needs, and coagulating in the stomach in light 
curds. A plump baby frequently grows lean after 
weaning and chiefly because its fat and sugar ration 
has been cut down. The change from a milk diet to 
solid food thus mai-ks a critical time, and it should 
be very gradually made. Milk still contains all the 
elements necessary to the child's growth, and remains 
during this period the child's staple food, but of some 
of these elements he begins to need larger quantities 
than milk affords. Even when the teeth begin to ap- 
pear, the ability to digest vegetable foods is slight. 
The yolk of egg, and small quantities of meat juice 
as pressed from lightly broiled beefsteak, will be the 
first addition to his diet of cow's milk. Next in order 
come thoroughly cooked farinaceous foods in a liquid 
form, as oatmeal gruel, strained. The first of un- 
strained cereals to be added will be rice, as containing 
the smallest amount of indigestible matter. Bread, 
well baked and not too fresh, made from whole wheat 
flour carefully sifted so that it contains no irritating- 
particles of bran, may be given to a child of one and 
a half to two years, and very hard crusts or crackers, 
as the Educator Crackers, which the child delights 
to gnaw on. Sweet butter may be spread on the bread, 
but cream, as furnished in milk will continue to be 
the best source of fat. A little mealy boiled or 
baked potato with butter, cream or platter gravy, 
may also be given after a year. It should be kept in 
mind that milk is still the basis of the child's food, 
and there are many healthy growing children who 



8 Food for Children. 

take only bread and butter and milk up to the age of 
two years. 

During the dreaded second summer, the chief 
danger will lie in the character of the milk and 
in unsuitable vegetable food. Since the child is at 
this age not entirely dependent on the nutriment 
contained in the milk, it is best to cook it, unless its 
purity and freshness are entirely above suspicion. If 
this is done, and the cereal food is well cooked and 
limited in quantity, the child will not be likely to 
suffer from the ailments that are so conveniently 
ascribed to teething. 

The general principle as to the food of a young 
child is this: the food must be digestible in character, 
so that it will not lie long in the digestive tract, and 
for the same reason, not too much must be taken at 
a time. 

At this period the sense of taste is not highly 
developed, the same simple food is taken with relish 
day after day, and it is very unwise to introduce 
varied flavors. Sugar is a valuable food as well as 
flavor, and the child's craving for it is a natural one, 
but there is great danger of spoiling the appetite for 
simple foods. Dr. Roteh insists that the infant, even 
in its second year, should never taste sweets. Sugar 
should from the first be withheld from the dish that 
forms the staple food of the child — that is, the mush 
or porridge of oatmeal or some preparation of wheat 
or corn. This article of diet, eaten only with milk 
or cream, falls into the same class as bread and milk, 
and forms the simple, wholesome basis of a meal. 
The sugar given the child is better furnished in the 



Food for Children. 9 

occasional simple pudding, in the lump of sugar, or 
homemade candy, not that its food value is better 
utilized, but the whole food of the child is thus more 
wholesome. 

FOUK TO TWELVE TEAKS. 

The child has now reached the age when it is said 
"he can eat anything." True he has passed the 
critical time, and according to statistics, has many 
more chances of living, under ordinary conditions; 
but to meet a high standard of health, the food of 
children during these years cannot be left to chance. 
The appetite is strong, new tastes develop, and they 
have access to a great variety of foods among which 
they have not sufficient wisdom to choose. To the 
requirements made by normal growth are also to be 
added certain tasks, as school duties. It has been 
noted by those who work among the poor of great 
cities, that under-nourished children give out com- 
pletely when forced to study. Eev. Moore Bdes 
gives a vivid picture of the ill-clothed, breakfastless 
little creatures in East London trying to force their 
brains into activity. Teachers insist that the com- 
plaint of overstudy is rare among well-nourished, 
healthy children. It must be remembered that not 
all children of well-to-do parents are to be so classed, 
for food that is sufficient in quantity may be ill 
chosen. All agree that children must have simple, 
nutritious food, such as is easily and rapidly digested, 
for the amount and strength of the digestive fluid in 
even a healthy child is limited, and the task must be , 
proportioned to it. A few hours after a meal the 



10 Food, for Children. 

digestive powers begin to decline, and if the food 
still remains undissolved in the stomach, fermenta- 
tion will result. The child has pain, a sour breath, 
loss of appetite, and perhaps more serious symptoms. 
Sometimes indigestion in the child is less easily 
recognized. It has many forms; one which the 
mother will note is the state of the skin. If it is 
rough and pimply, or the child has an eczema, or 
obstinate eruption, in most cases the food is at fault; 
or there may be mal-nutrition, the food, although 
good, may not nourish. Changes must be made in 
the diet and the result carefully watched. It should 
be noted that these, for the child, objectionable foods, 
may be very nutritious in themselves, and quite 
suited to the stronger digestive powers of the healthy 
adult. 

DIGESTIBLE AND ISTDIGESTIBLE FOODS. 

But what is simple, digestible food ? This ques- 
tion concerns both the market and the table. 

There are many sources of digestible food for the 
growing child; indeed, there is now no excuse for its 
food being ill adapted or monotonous. A dozen 
excellent cereal foods are at our disposal; well cooked 
and accompanied with good milk or cream, they 
should form the basis of at least one meal a day. Of 
meats, beef is the best, and should be broiled or 
roasted rare. Chicken and lean mutton are ailso 
good, but pork should enter into the dietary only in 
the form of bacon. Bacon sliced thin and lightly 
cooked has been found to be an excellent form of fat 
for delicate children, and eaten with bread is often 
greatly relished. 



Food for Children. 11 

In general, children are slow to like a variety of 
vegetables. This is of no consequence as long as 
cereals and fruits give the required bulk to the food. 
A mealy potato, boiled or baked, and eaten with 
butter or meat juice, not made gravy, is an excellent 
form of starch, but a soggy, waxy potato is one of 
the worst of foods. Vegetable phries or thick soups, 
with milk and vegetables as a basis (as on p. 117), are 
an excellent food and generally liked. 

As concerns the cook; a food is simple and nutri- 
trious which contains few rather than many ingred- 
ients, and which has not been over-manipulated in the 
kitchen. Thus, an egg slightly cooked is very digestible 
and nourishing, as also an egg beaten and added to hot 
broth or milk. When sugar is added to the cooked 
milk and egg, we have a custard, which is notably 
difficult of digestion for invalids and little children, 
and when butter and flour are added we have rich 
cake or pudding, a highly concentrated food which 
has no place in the dietary of either, and which is 
accepted in only limited quantities by the adult 
stomach. 

Fruits are valuable because of the organic acids 
and sugar they contain," but they are not allowed in 
any child's diet under a year. After that age fresh, 
perfectly ripe fruits of the sweet varieties may be 
introduced, beginning in very small quantities, — as 
the juice of a sweet orange, never a sour one, or the 
pulp of a ripe baked apple. The amount given may 
be gradually increased and may include many varie- 
ties. After four years, well-cooked prunes are useful 
in correcting constipation; also figs scalded and soaked. 



13 Food for Children. 

or dates washed and dried. In the case of raw fruits, 
the skin must always be removed. As to the diges- 
tion of fruits, different children differ greatly in their 
powers, and no invariable rule can be given. 

The banana is generally considered indigestible, 
but very young children have been known to eat 
them with impunity, after they have become so ripe 
that the peel is black. To repeat, moderate quanti- 
ties of the pulp and juice of perfectly ripe fresh fruit 
of fine quality is of great benefit to children. It 
should be remembered, however, that to young chil- 
dren no uncooked fruit should be given at the evening 
meal, and even cooked fruit in very small quantities 
if at all at that time. Of the morning and noon 
meals, however, it may always form a part. 

TWICE COOKED FOOD. 

When food is recooked, as minced meat warmed 
up in a gravy, or warmed potatoes, it is taken out of 
this list of simple foods. It is a safe rule to follow, 
that no recooked foods shall be given to a young 
child. The meat fibre has become toughened and is 
more or less soaked with fat, the potato is no longer 
in a light floury state easily penetrated by the diges- 
tive juices. 

For the same reason, underbaked bread or the 
crumb of newly baked bread is barred out, because 
when it leaves the mouth it is of a dense and doughy 
rather then porous consistence and is not readily 
acted on by the digestive juices. Also, articles fried 
in fat are too slowly acted on, the fat not being 
easily dissolved away from the other constituents. 



Food for Children. 13 

Cold fat, as butter, spread on bread, has not this 
effect and is highly digestible. 

Again, the stomach may be overloaded by eating 
foods, each in itself good, but too rich and concen- 
trated when taken together. A mother said, " Now 
this morning I gave Mary oatmeal,— she wanted rice, 
but I said no, oatmeal was more nourishing; I had 
read it had more fat in it; and I put on plenty of 
sugar and cream, — and if she didn't come home that 
noon with a he.idache and lay it to the oatmeal." 
And probably Mary was right. Even so excellent a 
food as cream may be served too thick, and bring on 
a feeling of nausea. Rich milk is the best accom- 
paniment to the morning cereal. Sugar in addition 
may overload the stomach. 

LIKES AND DISLIKES. 

Children's likes and dislikes for food often have a 
physiological foundation. A middle ground between 
old-fashioned tyranny and the new laxity should be 
sought. If a child dislikes fat meat, he should not 
be obliged to eat it since cream and butter will readily 
supply the lack. But on the other hand, children, 
like all ignorant persons, are apt to have whims and 
prejudices about food, and these must not be unduly 
indulged. 

It is greatly to the convenience of older people 
that a child's wants should be supplied by what is on 
the table, and it is also better for the child that he 
should form the habit of trying to like the foods that 
others find agreeable, provided they are also whole- 
some. 



14 Food for Children. 

As to amount of food, appetite may generally be 
trusted except as to dainties. There are few children 
who will not overeat on sweets. There is little doubt 
that the habit of a simpler time which offered desert 
only at the Sunday dinner or some festal occasion 
was the safer. But a skilful cook can satisfy the 
sweet tooth more wisely than in pie, heavy pudding 
and rich cake. There are many sweetened trifles into 
which both eggs and butter do not enter, and which 
will be found to do no harm. A simple sponge cake 
is probably of all cakes the most digestible, and appar- 
ently because of the absence of butter. Variety in 
food should not be furnished ahead of the child's 
natural development of taste, nor should any stimu- 
lant like tea or coffee be allowed. 

Regarding many foods, the question is really one 
of amount; a little, used as a taster or flavor, doing 
no harm, where a large amount would cause indiges- 
tion. It is perhaps better to use this excellent oppor- 
tunity to early train the child to right moderation. 

It may be noticed, that if the child can look for- 
ward to a stated time when a dainty is to be enjoyed, 
he is quite content with the simple food that inter- 
venes. He is probably better pleased to have most 
of the sugar on top of the cake rather than dis- 
tributed throughout. 



Food for Children. 15 

TWO days' menu. 
Ghild of Six to Ten. 

Breakfast. — Boiled rice with cream. Soft boiled 
egg. Dry toast and butter. Banana. 

Dinner. — A slice of rare roast beef. Baked potato, 
with butter or platter gravy. Pudding 
of apple and tapioca served with cream. 

Supper. — Bread and milk. Bread and jam. 

Breahfast. — Oatmeal and milk. Bacon and baked 
potato. Bread and butter. Berries. 

Dinner. — Stewed chicken. Boiled hominy. Sponge 
cake. Ripe fruit. 

Supper. — Milk soup with crackers. Bread and honey. 

Although the amount of food served to a child is 
according to the judgment of an older person, yet on 
some substantial dish, as bread and butter, there 
should be no limit. 



SOME POINTS IJSr PRAOTIOAL 
HOUSEHOLD MAlsrAGEMEK"T. 



There are now so many excellent cook books, and 
so many good courses in cookery offered, that it 
is comparatively easy for any womaa to learn how to 
cook, but the art of household management is much 
more difficult to impart in lessons. If housekeepers 
could "pool" their experiences, so to speak, an in- 
teresting body of facts could be brought together. 
Many such experiences have come to me, by letter or 
otherwise, and they have helped me to some conclu- 
sions which I will briefly state. I believe that there 
are great numbers of women in our country having 
very limited incomes, who are with patience and in- 
telligence, studying these questions in the interest of 
their household. 

First of all, look to other conditions that are not 
food. Food is not the only factor in health. See 
that the children are out of doors enough, and 
sleep in well ventilated rooms. If food is the f uel^ 
then fresh air and exercise furnish the draft and rake 
the fire. 

A FEW UTENSILS AND METHODS. 

The great importance of improving methods for 
cooking meat at a temperature below the boiling 



18 Household Managetnent 

point, is dwelt on elsewliere. The Aladdin Oven now 
offers a ready means to this end and its use has be- 
come well known. A correspondent writes me that 
nothing can excel the flavor of a leg of lamb which 
is cooked in this oven five or six hours with the lamp 
turned up half-way, — and this is only one of many 
dishes that are cooked in it to perfection. > 

But there are other ways of maintaining this low 
degree of heat. The heat of the oven of any range 
may be regulated by keeping the do(^ partly open, 
and a tolerably constant temperature held for hours 
just under the boiling point. A tough piece of meat 
can thus be cooked in a closely covered pot better 
than on the back of the stove, because the heat comes 
from all sides and is more even. 

The Double Boiler. This utensil, sometimes called 
an oatmeal cooker, is one of the most valuable we 
have, but it must be used with understanding. If 
cereals are to be cooked in it and have the proper 
flavor, they must first be boiled by placing the inside 
vessel with the boiling water and meal, directly on 
the stove, and cooking thus for ten minutes or till 
there is danger of burning, after which it is placed 
in the outside vessel and the cooking completed 
by steaming. But the double boiler is even more 
valuable for the cooking of meat which it is desirable 
to keep for some time below the boiling point. For 
no matter how violently the water may boil in the 
outside, the innner vessel does not reach over 200 
degrees. A piece of meat may in this way be cooked 
in its own juices. It is also a good way to make soup. 
By partially removing the cover, the temperature 
may be lowered to ]80 degrees. 



77(6 Family Table. 19 

The Charcoal Broiler. The use of charcoal for 
broiling, toasting, etc., has been made easy by the 
invention of a broiler which is set into one of the 
stove holes of the range. The principle on which it 
is made is that described on page 21. It can be used 
with or without a fire in the stove. Those who 
understand the great superiority of charcoal for 
broiling and toasting, and its economical use in keep- 
ing a pot bubbling, will welcome this invention. 

The Meat Grinder. There are several meat grind- 
ers that can be screwed to the table. To the busy 
and economical housewife it is a most useful article. 
One woman writes me that at least half the meat used 
in her family is passed through this chopper. Both 
raw and cooked meat can be thus treated, and it is 
also useful in grinding dried bread for crumbs. 

THE FAMILY TABLE. 

Food must meet several requirements, — first, there 
must be enough to supply the needs of the system. 
A delicate woman of sedentary habits should not 
make her appetite a measure for those who work hard 
out of doors, nor be too quick to conclude that 
healthy children are gluttons. There is very little 
over eating among children, except on dainties. If 
the food is simple and substantial, their hearty young 
appetites will seldom require to be checked. 

Habit and Prejudice. Then, food must not only 

be nutritious, it must taste good, and habit has a great 

' deal to do with our approval of a flavor. To most 

people, good food means that to which they are accus- 



20 Houseliold Management. 

tomed. A man who was very fond of hash as it was 
prepared in his kitchen, called for it so often that his 
family rebelled, and the cook was induced to make 
this dish of poorer and poorer quality that it might 
lose its popularity; but not until it was half gristle, 
soggy and greasy, did the hash eater cease to approve. 
On the other hand, by acting on this tendency, a 
favorite but indigestible dish may be improved in 
quality, and even its character altered, if the change 
is gradual. If the family have been used to more 
meat than is necessary, or than you can afford, it can 
be only gradually lessened, and not until the vegetable 
food you offer is so well cooked as to convert the fam- 
ily to its use. As the proverb runs, — "Do not try to 
throw habit out of the window, but lead it down 
stairs a step at a time." 

You should have at your command a good number 
of nutritious and economical dishes whose flavor and 
appearance you have carefully suited to the family's 
taste; then these recipes should be sacred. A certain 
dish should always have the expected flavor. In this 
way you build up your reputation as a cook, and 
nothing is more important. For instance, in one 
family that I know, red cabbage is always stewed with 
a little sugar and vinegar, white cabbage with milk; 
thus two distinctly different dishes are offered, and 
the family would not be pleased with a change in the 
flavors. 

Each Food Good of its Kind. Again, let each dish 
be good of its kind. If you cannot aff'ord the best 
oysters, do not buy stale or doubtful; get instead, a 
cheap fish and fry it to perfection. Better a prime 



Economy of Time and Strength. 31 

chicken once a month than a poor one every Sunday. 
The satisfaction gained from the food costing a given 
amount of money, is thus much greater, and the gain 
in refinement is even more important. A gross, 
unrefined dinner, where too much food is offered 
of a poor quality and carelessly served, is a very 
poor way of spending money. A refined dinner, 
consisting of a few dishes of perfect quality and 
flavor, and tasteful in all its appointments, ranks 
high among the means of culture. Cultivation of 
taste as to food is a check, not a stimulus to gross 
feeding. It is better to know good coffee from poor, 
even though we cannot afford it everyday, for every 
distinction of flavor that we are able to make helps 
to raise our standard regarding dishes that are acces- 
sible to us. Shall the potatoes be a floury ball that 
crumbles under the fork, or gray and sodden, and 
eaten half-unconsciously? Shall the steak be fried in 
fat, or delicately broiled? Shall there be the same 
monotonous round of vegetables, while the markets 
offer good variety at the same price? 

It is a great mistake to suppose that even the very 
poor are better off if they lack a discriminating taste. 
With attention to the subject goes a greater intelli- 
gence about foods, and this enables any individual 
to do better with a given amount of money. 

EtfONOMY OF TIME AND STRENGTH. 

Food ready cooked. — What dishes may be bought 
ready cooked to advantage? Not bread with its usual 
high price and poor quality, if the housewife has a 
well equipped kitchen and spends her days at home 



32 Household Management. 

busied with other tasks. Nothing probably pays 
better than homemade bread from the best western 
wheat. A barrel of flour costing $6.00 will furnish 
three times as much nutriment as six dollars spent 
in baker's bread at seven cents a pound. But if 
the woman's time must be counted, or if the 
fire is built solely to bake the bread, the money 
advantage is lost. A correspondent writes, "My 
husband, who carries his lunch, says that after eat- 
ing sandwiches made from baker's bread he soon 
grows faint and empty, while after eating those from 
homemade bread he can work a much longer time 
without hunger." 

There are a great many cereal foods ready cooked 
that are very tempting to the housewife, but if her 
means are limited she cannot indulge in them. Bits 
of good homemade bread dried hard and browned in 
the oven and rolled on a board, will be found, when 
eaten Avith milk or fruit juice, as crisp and nutty of 
flavor as many high-priced foods sold in packages. 

In my judgment, cake and pastry may frequently 
be bought to advantage rather than made at home, 
because they require more time and skill than bread; 
and again, a boughten dainty is always used in smaller 
quantities. For instance, five cents' worth of small 
sugar cakes will often furnish a satisfactory desert, 
whereas the material alone for the homemade cake 
would cost far more. 4 

Fruit. — In the matter of fruit, the average house- 
wife has a good deal to learn in economy of time and 
money. To many a housekeeper, especially in the 
country, canned fruit heads the list of "must-be's," 



Cooked Meats. 33 

and toilsome days in the very hottest weather are 
spent over the cookstove in order to fill the pantry 
shelves for winter. In country villages a good house- 
keeper is not willing to own to less than two hundred 
quarts. The result is that this canned fruit appears 
on the table twice a day during the winter, and the 
more wholesome fresh fruit is not bought. More- 
over, when thus plentiful it is relied on to furnish 
the main dish at the evening meal when it is least 
easily digested, and when a nutritious stew or soup 
should appear instead. 

Instead of providing this undue quantity of cooked 
fruit, too often heavily sweetened, the housewife will 
do better to can a smaller quantity, and only what 
she can buy cheaply at the height of the season, and 
to put the rest of the money into fresh fruit, as cran- 
berries, apples and bananas during the winter, and 
oranges and other fruits at certain seasons. A mod- 
erate amount of the jams and marmelades now put 
up cheaply by reputable firms will add a good variety 
to the diet. They are not pure fruit juice, probably 
most of them contain glucose, but it has been shown 
that this substance properly made is not harmful. 

COOKED MEATS. 

Cooked sausages of various kinds are in too general 
use to need mention. If bought of a reputable firm, 
during cold weather they may often take the place of 
fresh meat. Boiled pigs feet afford an occasional 
relish, — even a little boiled ham may be an economi- 
cal purchase as compared with the home-cooked 
article, where more would be provided than is really 



24 Household Management. 

needed. Canned corned beef at ten cents a pound is- 
cheaper surely than raw corned beef at the same 
price; but most other canned meats are dear. 

If you live within reach of a N"ew England Kitchen 
that is well managed, you can often purchase a hot 
dish to advantage, but only experience and the local 
prices can decide what. 

In general, one may say that you must follow the 
method of all good housekeepers who do much beside 
the cooking for the family; that is, to have certain 
days devoted to " cooking up," when the range oven 
is filled with bread, with a pudding or cake added; 
when a solid piece of meat is cooked to last for two 
days, and a double quantity prepared of whatever wil 
rewarm. On this day, the cheapest of cooked foods 
cannot rival the home prepared; but to-morrow, when 
the cook has turned seamstress and the product of 
yesterday's toil is furnishing forth the table, some 
alrfeady cooked food may well be purchased to com- 
plete the menu. 

DESSEKTS. 

"I have no time to make desserts," says the busy 
mother who is cook, nurse and seamstre'ss, but she 
might find some way if she realized what a chance it 
offers to bring a touch of refinement, a gleam of 
pleasant surprise, into the meal. Eemember that the 
table is the center of the family life, and the " life is 
more than meat." You can take the children to any 
restaurant and fill them up, but the daily influence 
of a cheerful table apd wholesome cooking, presided 
over by a woman who has the thrift and intelligence 



Some Cheap Dishes. 25 

to compass it, is much more. At least one meal of 
the day, the one for which the family has most leisure, 
should he prettily set, and something that may be 
called a dessert kept as a little treat and to be served 
on fresh plates, — the change, be it noted, made not 
by the mother, but by some other member of the 
family. If it is berries, let there be instead of the 
granulated' a little powdered sugar in a pretty dish 
to serve with them; if only boiled rice, let it be 
moulded in cups and a spoonful of jam on top to give 
a festive appearance; if a plate of fresh fruit, a few 
leaves placed underneath will give a dainty touch. 
A little affectionate thought, rather than much money 
or time, will furnish something pretty and light that 
will be the excuse for a peaceful, nibbling, digesting 
time, — for tales of the day's doings, for that touch of 
the formal and nonpractical which stimulates grace- 
ful speech and manners, and which is a crying need 
in many thrifty, well-managed homes. It is of the 
greatest help in taming that savage, the boy of the 
family. 

SOME CHEAP DISHES. 

Meats. — In the following recipes, the post is con- 
fined to twenty-five cents for enough for six persons. 

It is always better economy to pay a little higher 
price for meat without bone. In general, the cheaper 
cuts of meat are less tender than the high priced, 
though they may be as nutritious and high-flavored. 
When once raised to the boiling point they require a 
long application of heat to make them tender, but if 
the long fibers are thoroughly broken, as by chopping, 



26 Household Management. 

snch meat may then be cooked quickly by other 
methods. 

The most common use of this chopped meat is in 
Hamburg steak, the meat being formed into balls 
and broiled or fried, but not long enough to toughen 
the meat. 

Beef Gallops or Scrambled Beef. In this case, 
the chopped beef is put in a pan in which a little 
butter has been made hot, and is continually tossed 
and turned until the red color has changed to 
pink or light gray. The fire should be hot enough 
to make the process a short one; otherwise the juice 
flows too freely and boils around the meat, — each 
bit is supposed to be slightly seared but not tough- 
ened. 

Beef Loaf Take two pounds of chopped beef, 
season well, press into a round or oyal dish to form 
it, and turn into a hot spider in which a tablespoon 
of dripping or butter has been made hot. After a few 
moments turn it over with a broad-bladed knife, or 
invert it into another heated spider; brown on the 
other side and dish, being careful to keep its form. 
It should be well browned outside, and rare and 
tender within. 

Beef Loaf with Tomatoes. Two pounds of chopped 
beef, one-half pound salt pork; season with salt, 
pepper, and herbs. Mould and brown as above. 
Pour over it one-half pint of cooked and strained 
tomatoes, and bake in moderate oven three hours. 

Victoria Beef. Two pounds of round or rump 
steak one-half inch thick. Cut up into strips about 
four inches by two inches. Prepare a pint of bread 



Some Clieap Dishes. 37 

crumbs softened with milk or water and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, onion, herbs, and a very little fat 
pork chopped fine. Spread the pieces, roll and tie, 
or fasten with wooden tooth picks. Press the rolls 
close together in the bottom of a double boiler, pour 
oyer enough thickened tomato Juice to just cover, 
boil up once. Place in outside boiler and steam two 
to three hours. A pail in a kettle of boiling water, 
may be used instead. 

Boiled Steak. Spread one pound of thin round 
steak with one-half pound sausage meat. Koll, tie, 
and bake, basting often. Pout tomato sauce over. 
Plank steak may be cooked in the same way. 

Rovnd of Beef. Buy four pounds in one piece. 
Make holes in it with the carving steel, and fill with 
one pint of high seasoned bread crumbs to which one- 
half pound chopped fat pork is added; sprinkle bread 
crumbs on top. Bake slowly two hours, or till 
tender, basting often. Bake peeled potatoes around. 
This sliced cold will furnish dinner the second day. 

Calves Head. Soak the brains in cold water one- 
half hour. Wash the head well, put in cold water, heat 
slowly and boil till the bones can be taken out. Lay 
in a pan and stick in twelve cloves. Place on top of it 
slices of onion, salt, pepper, bread crumbs and but- 
ter, and add one-half pint liquor in which it was 
cooked. Brown in oven. Boil brains twenty min- 
utes, drain and stir into drawn butter and pour over 
head. (Sherry maybe added.) Have the head split 
by the butcher when you purchase it. 

Calves Tongues. In most markets a half dozen 
may be bought for twenty-five cents. Soak in cold 



28 Household Management. 

water for one-half hour. Boil in salted water, and 
slice neatly, pouring over a milk sauce to which a 
squeeze of lemon is added. 

Beef or Pigs Kidney. Soak one hour in cold 
water, slice thin and remove the hard membrane. 
Brown one-half of a chopped onion in drippings, then 
brown the slices and two teaspoons flour, add hot 
water for sauce, cook twenty minutes, season. 

Fried Veal with Milk Gravy. Cut a thin slice 
from the leg into pieces two inches square. Brown 
in butter or drippings, sprinkle with one tablespoon 
flour and brown again. Eemove and dredge a little 
more flour into the pan and brown it. Pour in a cup 
of milk and boil up carefully scraping up the brown 
bits from the bottom. 

KromesTcies. To one tablespoon butter in which 
one chopped onion has been fried, add two table- 
spoons flour, and cook, then add one-half pint gravy 
or water. Now add one pound chopped cold meat, 
one tablespoon parsley, one teaspoon salt and one egg 
yolk. Spread one inch thick on platter. When cold 
cut in pieces one by two inches, dip in batter as be- 
low and fry in fat. Garnish with parsley. 

Batter for Aleve. One-quarter pound flour, two 
raw egg yolks, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
pepper, one tablespoon salad oil or butter, one table- 
spoon cold water, or enough to make stiff enough to 
hold drops in shape. Add two beaten whites of egg 
at the last. 

Mutton en Casserole. Put in baking dish one dozen 
small onions, one dozen pieces carrot (cut in fancy 
shapes), also turnip and one cup celery. Place on 



Some Cheap Dishes. 29 

top two pounds lean mutton cut in cubes. Cover 
with stock or gravy, add one teaspoon salt and 
paprika. Bake slowly one and one-half to two hours. 

Fish, Economical. It is generally agreed that fish 
must be much cheaper than meat per pound in order 
to be an economical food. It is seldom less than half 
refuse (hones, skin, etc.), and its water content is 
high. The high price of sea food, largely due as it 
is to bad methods of catching and keeping, is to be 
regretted, as it is a most wholesome food, and ought 
to be frequently substituted for meat as the weather 
grows warm. Many economical dishes are however 
made from salted and dried fish. These are noted 
elsewhere. 

Cheap Dishes Without Meat. These are greatly in 
demand for supper and they are all the more useful 
if they can be made from left-overs. It will be sel- 
dom indeed that the pantry will not furnish material 
for one of these. 

Cereals. Kecipes for mushes, both boiled and fried, 
have been given already. Eice may be prepared in 
many ways, one of the best is 

Pilaf. Cook one-quarter of an onion (chopped) in 
one teaspoon butter, add one cup of well washed rice 
and one teaspoon salt and one pint of beef broth with 
one-half pint of tomato juice. Cover and cook 
slowly till soft, when the liquid will be absorbed. On 
serving it stir in a heaping tablespoon of butter. If 
at hand, a cup of cold meat cut in dice may be 
added. 

Hominy Puffs. Mix one pint of cold boiled 
hominy or farina, with two eggs and one-half cup 
milk ; drop in spoonfuls on a buttered pan and bake. 



30 Household Management. 

Green Corn Plodding (as vegetable). One pint 
grated sweet corn, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one 
teaspoon salt, pepper, one tablespoon butter. Bake. 
More or less milk will be needed according to the age 
of the corn. 

Milk Soup. One tablespoon butter or dripping, 
melt and slowly fry in it till light brown one large 
onion (chopped), add two heaping tablespoons flour 
and cook but do not let it brown. Add one pint 
water, salt and pepper, and boil up, then add one 
pint milk (skim milk or whole). This is an excellent 
soup and the foundation of many varieties. A little 
chopped parsley is an addition. 

These soups should all be quite thick; they are 
liked even by people who say they do not like soups. 

Callage, Celery and Parsnip Soups are made in the 
same way except that the water is that which has 
been drained from one of these vegetables when 
cooked. 

Tomato Soup. Is made like milk soup with less 
onion and flour, and instead of the water, a pint of 
strained cooked tomato, to which one-fourth teaspoon 
soda is added. 

Potato Soup. Is the same as milk soup, omitting 
half the flour and adding three or four hot mashed 
potatoes. 

Mixed Vegetalle Soup. Like milk soup, omitting 
half of the flour and adding one cup cooked peas and 
one cup cooked corn. Any other cold cooked vege- 
tables may be substituted. 

Vegetalle Salads. As a ready resource and gener- 
ally to be made of what is already in the house, salads 
are most valuable. 



Sugar. 31 

Potato Salad. In summer this dish is much more 
wholesome than the warmed up and fried potatoes 
that are so frequently the reliance for a supper dish. 
Cut cold boiled potatoes in dice, as they can be better 
seasoned without breaking than can slices. Mild 
young onions may be mixed with them if liked. 
Moisten well with the following dressing: 

Salad Dressing. Mix well together three table- 
spoons melted butter or salad oil, one tablespoon vin- 
egar, one-half teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon 
pepper, one-quarter teaspoon dry mustard and one 
teaspoon chopped onion. This dressing is used with 
any mixture of vegatables and is supposed to be sea- 
soned enough if used with vegetables that have been 
salted in cooking. 

Mixed Salad. Cooked potatoes, beets, peas, beans, 
cauliflower are excellent, two or more of them mixed 
together and using the same dressing. Eaw tomatoes 
may be used alone; also lettuce, or used with other 
vegetables, especially as a border. A salad should 
always be made to look attractive. 

SUGAR. 

By most people sugar is valued only for its agrea- 
ble taste, but consumed as it now is in large and ever 
increasing quantities in most civilized nations, its food 
value is also to be considered. 

The word sugar is used to denote the cane sugar of 
commerce; but there are several kinds of sugar, dif- 
fering in sweetness and in other characteristics. 
Most fruits contain two different sugars, as does also 
honey. Miili contains still another, called milk 
sugar. 



32 Household Management. 

Cane sugar was so called because it was first ex- 
tracted from the sugar cane, but it is identically the 
same sugar that was later extracted from the beet, 
and it exists in many fleshy roots, in fruits, and in 
sap of trees, in grains, and other Tege table growths. 

It is only in very recent times that it has come into 
general use among all classes of people. A century 
ago, it was obtained almost wholly from the sugar 
cane grown in the West Indies, and its price depended 
on European wars or peace treaties. At present, two- 
thirds of the seven or eight million tons consumed in 
the world, is made from the sugar beet, which is cul- 
tivated in temperate climates all over the world. 
White granulated sugar is one of the purest food 
products known to us, and it is chemically the same 
no matter what its source. 

The food value of sugar may be counted as equal, 
pound for pound, to starch as eaten in bread and other 
forms of cereal food, but we cannot digest it in any 
such quantity as we can starch, nor can people of 
sedentary habits take as much as those who live an 
active life out of doors. Two pounds a week per 
person seems to be consumed in many families and no 
ill effects can be traced to its use. Beyond that 
amount its use is more questionable. It must be re- 
membered that sugar is absorbed very rapidly and the 
system may thus be overloaded and indigestion result. 
This is especially the case with children. We have 
also to consider the effect of much eating of sweet- 
meats on the appetite for simple and nutritious food. 
It is improbable that people two generations ago to 
whom sugar was a great luxury, woije not as well 



The School Luncheon. 33 

nourished without it, and in many cases it would be 
well to more nearly restrict our use of sugar to its 
natural sources in milk, sweet fruits, etc. 

To repeat; sugar is very valuable as a food and as a 
flavor, but it is a highly concentrated food, and peo- 
ple who are already well nourished may easily use it 
to excess. 

THE SCHOOL LUNCHEON. 

First, it should contain less in quantity than the child 
would eat at home at a regular meal, and the variety at 
any one time should not be great. The basket must be 
well aired over night, and the napkin be clean each 
time, so that the luncheon shall not have the stale, din- 
nerbasket smell that is so disgusting to a child, and 
sometimes enough to entirely spoil the appetite. For 
the same reason, the different kinds of food should 
be carefully wrapped in parafine paper. It is not ap- 
petizing to find cake mashed and mixed with the 
sandwich. Sweets may always be represented in a 
luncheon, but in small amounts. The sandwich of 
nicely spread bread with meat between is the basis 
of every lu/icheon, and there should always be 
fruit. It is to be regi'etted if the mother is so 
busy that the child must put up his or her own 
lucheon, or even assist at it. The pleasant element 
of surprise is thus lacking, and besides, no child 
after a hearty breakfast can rightly decide what he 
will need a few hours later. 



34 Houselold Management. 

A FEW SAMPLE LUNCHEONS. 

(1) Sandwiches of chopped beef, one cookie, one 
banana. 

(2) Sandwiches of cold fish well seasoned, jelly tart, 
an apple. 

(3) Sandwiches of lettuce and grated cheese, cup 
of baked custard, an orange. 

(4) Sandwiches of hard boiled egg in slices, wafers, 
two peaches. 

(5) Sandwiches of sliced ham, cucumber, ginger- 
bread. 

(6) Sandwiches of corned beef, cottage cheese, cur- 
rant bun. 

(7) Sandwiches of boiled tongue, potato salad, 
baked apple. 

(8) Sandwiches of steamed oysters, rice pudding, 
pears. 

(9) Toasted crackers, cold chicken, pickles, grapes. 

(10) Graham muffins, sliced turkey, apple sauce. 

(11) Brown bread and butter, veal loaf, sponge 
cake. 

(12) Bread and butter and jelly, cheese, cherries. 

THE PKBSEEVATION OF FOODS. 

Some of the arts by which perishable foods are pre- 
served from one season to another are extremely old, 
as the drying and salting of fish and the drying of 
fruits. Later, fruits were preserved in a heavy syrup 
of sugar, and in recent years the canning industry 
has reached enormous proportions. 

To what extent can all these foods be used in the 
family to advantage? 



The Preservation of Foods. 35 

Probably in every case, food loses something in 
nutritive value by these methods; perhaps also in 
case of digestibility, so that preserved meat, fruit or 
vegetables cannot rival the fresh. Salted lean meat 
is probably more injured than fat meat because of 
the juices that are soaked out. A too exclusive diet 
of salt beef will reduce a ship's crew to scurvy, and 
the only cure is a return to fresh meat and vegetable 
juices. 

The extent to which canned food is now used 
demands, in the interest of health, a most careful 
examination of all the factory methods. The entire 
meal may now be furnished from the tin can; soup, 
entree, meat, vegetables, salad, dessert, fruit, and in 
many cases at a price that makes these foods very 
attractive. The laws against adulteration and the 
frequent examinations made by government experts 
may be relied upon to keep out of the market abso- 
lutely bad preparations, and the family that uses 
canned food only occasionally will run little risk, but 
it may be quite otherwise with those who rely to a 
considerable extent on such preparations. Cautious 
people have an instinct, which they cannot perhaps 
defend against the analyst and expert, in favor of 
food materials that have passed through only few and 
simple processes, and which are freshly prepared by 
weM known methods that have stood the test of time. 
Such are, for instance, sound grains freshly ground, 
rather than kiln dried, and not precooked or pre- 
digested before it comes into the kitchen. The 
chemist may assure us that the acids sometimes used 
to soften the fibres of grain and of meat, are per- 



36 Household Management. 

fectly harmless as tested on animals and on men, — 
the doubt still remains as to whether such tests have 
been conducted long enough. 

The physician insists on fresh foods of known 
origin and of the simplest character for the young 
child and the invalid, the contents of bottles and 
cans are not in favor for furnishing the bulk of their 
food, for the utmost caution must here be the rule. 
This admitted possibility that food materials may 
have suffered harm from complicated or unknown 
processes, harm of which the manufacturers may be 
wholly ignorant, should make us hesitate to rely too 
entirely on precooked and predigested food, on canned 
meats, fruits and vegetables, even for healthy people. 

WATEE. 

Water is found in every part of the animal body, 
even in the bones and teeth, and it makes up two- 
thirds or more of our weight. Under ordinary cir- 
cumstances five to six pints of water are thrown off 
daily by the adult man, by means of the lungs, skin, 
and excreta, and still more during active exercise in 
regulating temperature by perspiration. This amount 
must be replaced in the food and drink. Water is 
the common carrier; it brings nutritive substances to 
the organs and removes waste products; without its 
help digestion, assimilation and other processes would 
be impossible. To keep up this normal supply of 
water is therefore very important, and water is often 
useful in larger quantities for its "washing" effect, 
to stimulate the kidneys and intestines to actioii. 

Most of the water we need we take in connection 



Water. 37 

with ordinary foods. Bread is one-half water, meat 
three-quarters water, while fruits and cooked veget- 
ables may contain more than 90 ^ of water. Soups 
and beverages, as tea and coffee, offer a still larger 
supply. 

Drinhing Water. — Wholesome drinking water is of 
the utmost importance. Surface wells are always to 
be suspected, and often the water furnished through 
pipes to town dwellers is not safe. Suspected water 
can be made safe by boiling, and this is generally a 
more reliable method than the use of any filter ex- 
cepting the most expensive. Boiling drives out the 
gasses and makes water taste flat, but if well cooled 
and left to stand open some time before drinking, it 
becomes again agreeable. 

Hard Water. — Sometimes water contains lai'ge 
amounts of lime, so that when food is cooked in it 
the lime is deposited in tlie fibre and tends to harden 
it. This is especially the case with peas and beans. 
If hard water is boiled and allowed -to settle before 
using for cooking purposes, it can be poured off from 
the lime which has separated and settled to the 
bottom. This precipitation is sometimes hastened 
by adding a very small quantity of baking soda. 

Water at Meals. — It is sometimes said that water 
should not be- taken with the meals, as it "dilutes 
the gastric juice," and thus delays digestion. This 
fear is quite without foundation, the gastric juice is 
capable of acting in very dilute solution, and it must 
be remembered that water disappears very rapidly 
from the stomach. Doubtless if glass after glass of 
water is taken to wash down hurriedly chewed food 



38 Household Management. 

bad effects might follow, but moderate amounts, taken 
at the promptings of thirst, assist digestion. Even 
the refreshment given by ice water in hot weather we 
need not deny ourselves, if only it is sipped in small 
quantities. A glass of water taken shortly before a 
meal is a true appetiser, and in many cases of indi- 
gestion a glass or more of water, either hot or cold, 
taken an hour after the meal will dissipate the dis- 
comfort felt by the dyspejitic. 

GOOD FOOD AKD A SHOET PUESB. 

Do they go together? They may if the buyer 
knows what to buy, if the food is cooked as it should 
be, and if the eater has not a pampered taste. Three 
large ifs, and all are to be reckoned with. 

First, to become intelligent in the purchase of food 
is not a diflBcult matter, it only requires some persist- 
ent attention to the subject and the use of informa- 
tion now obtainable from several sources, notably the 
farmers bulletins of our Agricultural Department at 
Washington. 

There is a popular belief that high priced food is 
always the best food. In order to show that this is a 
mistake, note Just why some foods are dearer than 
others. For instance, beef must cost more than the 
vegetable food, cornmeal and others, which the ox 
was fattened on, because it represents additional cap- 
ital, labor and risk, and yet the pound of cornmeal 
costing two cents contains more nutriment for the 
body than the pound of meat costing fifteen cents. 
Perishable fruits, as berries, are of course dearer than 
fruits that keep well, and those that must make a long 



Cfood Food and a Short Purse. 39 

journey than those that are raised near home. In all 
cases delicate flavor and tenderness raises the price of 
food, because there are those who have money enough 
to pay the price demanded. For instance, the few 
fine rib cuts of beef containing the tenderloin will be 
higher and the neck or shin lower than the average 
for all the edible meat of the animal. The man who 
buys the lower priced cuts therefore profits by the 
rich man's purchase. So much indeed is the price of 
food affected by these various conditions that in few 
cases only is the price fixed by the amount of nutri- 
tive material which a food offers. 

An adult working man or woman can be fully nour- 
ished on ten cents a day, but would be obliged to 
choose the food from the following list: 

Wheat flour, Fresh fish, under five cts. 

Corn meal, per pound, 

Eye meal. Any meat with little bone 

Oat meal, at 8 to 12 cts. a pound. 

Peas, Suet, 

Beans, Oleomargarine, 

Potatoes, when not over Skimmed milk, 

40 cts. per bushel. Cheap fruit, etc. in limited 
Salt codfish, quantities, 

Sugar in small amounts. 

For fifteen to twenty cents a day the dietary may 
be raised by occasional additions of the following: — 

Meat at 20 cts. per pound. Fresh vegetables. 

Butter, Eice, 

Whole milk. Tea and coffee, cheaper 

Cheese, grades, 

l^resh fruit in season, Sugar if desired. 



40 household Managemeni. 

For thirty cents a day further additions could be 
made. 

Choice cuts of meat. Fresh fruits out of season. 

Green vegetables out of Delicacies and condiments. 

season. 

In all these estimates it is supposed that the food 
is eaten, not wasted, and that it is properly cooked 
by someone who cares to please the eater. It lies 
largely with the cook whether cheap and simple food 
is to be eaten with relish. There is still another fac- 
tor to be met. Those who eat must be willing to 
practice self denial in food luxuries just as in dress 
and other details of life, in order to save means for 
higher pleasures, as music, education, gifts to good 
enterprises, or saving foi- future success or ease. If 
we are well nourished at twenty cents a day with a 
reasonable number of flavors and adjuncts, we should 
remember in raising the sum to thirty cents that we 
should also be able to add a third to our house rental, 
clothing and other departments of expenditures, also 
that the added sum represents many good things 
which we are accustomed to think bevond our reach. 







'^^^MM^mk^ 



*^f' 



-, — 



w;: 



^v 



r#- 






Practical 
sanitary and 

economic 
cool<ing 

adapted to .. 




Hinman Abel 




L kjui^cd by Google 




•a 
o 
o 

^ a (U 9 £: 
« - o te ► 

O — 0 O V 

2 cr," 2d 
■a « 2 ei o £ 

- M " >- 

o la « 

* 0 A b 

^ o ^ 

= ► ? o'2 



-•5 a 



— a e 

3 »^ — ^ 



Google 




t 



i 



L kjui^cd by Google 



PEACTICAL 




PEKSONS UF MUDEUATfi AND SMALL 



BT 

Mbs. Mary RimtAs Abbu 



THE LOMB PRIZE ESS 



Inscription: ''The Five Food Principles, 

hy Fractical Mecipes.'* 



PUBUBSBD BT THK 

AHBRICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 



• 





• • • 


• « 

• •« 


• • 
• • • 




• • 


• • • 

•• • 


• • • 

• • • • 


• • • • • 




• • 


• • • 



Bt IRVING A. WArniONt 



JBINTED BY E. n. ANDRBWS 
SOGBJESXXB, X. T. 



> 



A 14- 



PREFACE. 



Perhaps there is no better way of presenting to the 
public the Ucts which led to the creation of this 
valuable work, than by inserting the announcement 

which resulted in the exceedingly lively and able 
competition for the prize, as well as the merited honor 
which was certain to Ml upon the successful com- 
petitor. It read as follows : 

AMEEIOAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. 
The Lomb Prize Essays. 

Ttao Prizes for 1888. 

Mr. Henry Lomb, of Rochester, N.Y., now well known 
to the American public as the originator of the Lomb 
Prize Essays, offers, through the American Pablle 
Health Association, two prizes for the cnrrent year, on 
the following subject: 

FBAOTIOAI^ BAJSTSARY AITB ECONOMIC COOKUTe 

Adapted to Pbrsons of Modbbatb 
Am ShaiiL Means. 

First Prize, |500, - - - Second Prize, $200, 

Judges: Prof. Charles A Lindsley, New Haven, 
Conn.: Prof. George H. Roh6, Baltimore^ Md.; Prof. 
Victor C. Vaughan, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Ellen H. 
Richards, Boston, Mass.; MJsB Emma C. G. Poison, 
New Haven, Conn. 

■ 

Conditions: The arrangement of theessaywill be left 
to tbe discretion of the author. They are, however, 

(») 



L.iyui/cd by Google 



Preface 



ezpeeted to isoYer, In the broadest and most speeiflo 
manner, methods of cooking as well as carefoUy pre- 
paied reoeipts, for three classes,— ( 1) those of moderate 
means; ( 2 ) those of small means; ( 8 ) those who may be 
called poor. For each of these classes, receipts for three 
meals a day for scTeral days in sneoession should be 
given, each meal to meet the leQnirements of the body, 
and to vary as mnch as possible firom day to day. For- 
mulas for at least twelve dinners, to be eanied to the 
place of work, and mostly eaten cold, to be giveu. 
Healthfulness, practical arrangement, low cost, and 
palatablenees should be combined considerations. The 
object of this work is for the information of the house- 
wife, to whose requirements the average cook-book is ill 
adapted, as well b& to bring to her attention healthful 
and ecconomic methods and receipts. 

All essays written for the above prizes must be in the 
hands of the Socrotary, Dr. Irving A. Watson, Concord, 
N. H., on or before (September 15, 1888. Each essay 
must bear a motto, and have accompanying it asecurely 
sealed envelope contaiumg the author's name and ad- 
dress, with the same motto upon the outside of the 
envelope. 

After the \ynze essays have been determined upon, the 
envelopes bearing the mottoes correspotiding to the 
prize essays will be opened, and the awards made to the 
persons whose nauies are found witlii2i them. The re- 
maining envelopes, unless the corresponding essay s are 
reclaimed by authors or their representatives within 
thirty days after publication of the awards, will be 
destroyed, unopened, by the Secretary. 

None of the judges will be allowed to compete for a 
prisCb 

The judges will annoonce the awards at the Annoal 
Meeting of the American Publio Health Association, 
1888. 

It Is intended that the above esaays shall be eesen- 
tially American In their character and ap p lication, and 





Preface, 



T 



fhiii will be eonsldefecl by th^ Jadg«t m ah espeolal 
merit. ^ 

Competition is open to aatbon of any nationality, 
but all tbe papen miut be in tbe English langnagei 

IRYITO A. Watson, 

GONGOBD. K. H., Febraary, Vm, 

The above circular was extensively circulated and 
published throughout the United States and the 
Dominion ot Canada, with the result of bringing to 
the Secretary, within the specified time> seventy essays 
upon the subject annonnced. The arriyal of these 
essays coyered a period of nearly five months, and 
they were forwarded to tlie Chairman of the Commit- 
tee of Award ncurly as fast as received, tlms giving 
the committee ample time for tiieir exceedingly 
laborious work of examination. The decision of the 
judges was announced at the Sixteenth Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Public Health Association, and 
was as follows: 

BBPOBT of GoUMITXKK OSl THB IiOtf B Pbisbs. 

Your conmiitteei to whom were referred the essays 
upon "Practical Sanitary and Economic Ciooking 
Adapted for Persons of Moderate and Small Heans*^ 
respectfully report that they have perused with thought- 
ful and considerate attention tbe three score and ten 
essays which were submitted to them. 

A few of them were presented in beautiful specimens 
of type-writing, but the great majority of them were in 
manuscripti and some of them not in the most legible 
characters, a circumstance which, it will be appreciated, 
became an important matter, when considered in con- 
nection with the large number of competitors, and the 
fact that many of their papers were each of several 
hundred pages in length. 



vi Preface. 

« 

The rasalt of the labon of the eomnilttee is, that by 
nnanimoDs approval, the first prize of $500 is awarded to 
the author of the essay bearing this InseriptioD,— The 
Five Food Prindples, illustrated by Practical JEtedpes." 

Tour oommittee would farther report that although 
there were among the lemaining sixty-nine a number of 
essays of considerable merit, there was no single one so 
promineDtly superior to others as to commend the ap- 
proval of the majority of your committee, nor was there 
any wbiehdid not contain someerrors of statement, which 
your committee did not feel justified in endorsing? with 
the approval of this Association by the bestowal of a 
prize, or else which did not fail to meet some of the con- 
ditions upon which the prize was offered, or which was 
not otherwise objectionable because of literary defects. 

Your committee would therefore respectfully report 
that no essay was found Mmont:;' those eubmitted to them 
which they jnd^red deijerving' of the BPcond prize of $200. 

The committee consider it a duty, in awarding the 
prize, to emphasize the fact tliat of all the essays sub- 
mitted the one selected is not only preiminently the 
best, but that it is also intrinsically an admirable treatise 
on the subject. 

It is simple and lucid in statement, methodical in ar- 
ranp:ement, and well adapted to the practical wants of 
the classes to which it is addressed. Whoever may read 
it c^iu liave confidence in the soundness of its teachin^js, 
and cannot fail to be instructed in the art of cooking by 
its plain precepts, founded as they are upon the correct 
application of the Mientific principles of chemistry and 
physiology to the proper preparation of food for man. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

C. A. LlNDSLKY. 
Georgk il. ROH^ 
V. C. Vaugha^. 
Elle^^ H. Richards. 
Emma C. G. Pol6on. 




Preface* 



The American public is to be congratulated upon 
this useful and valnable contribution to the needs of 
Its great army of working people, made poesible 
through the humanitarian benevolence of a private 
citizen. This was the fifth prize offered by the same 
citizen, through the same channel, for the noblo })ur- 
pose of ameliorating, in some degree, the hardfcliip.s 
which befall mankind in the tireless struggle for 
existence. 

That this essay may he placed in the hands of every 
family in the country, is his earnest desire as well as 

that of the Association; therefore a price barely cover- 
ing the cost has been placed upon tliis volume. It is 
to be hoped, that Government departments, state and 
local boards of health, sanitary and benevolent asso- 
ciations, manufacturers, employers, etc., will purchase 
editions at cost, or otherwise aid in distributing this 
work among the people. 

Altliougli a copyright luis been phtced upon these 
essays for legitimate protection, permission to publish 
under certain conditions, can be obtained by address- 
ing the secretary. 

We commend this volume to the public, believing 
it to be an unequaled work upon Practical Sanitary 
and Economic Cooking, adapted to persons of mode- 
rate and small means." 



Secretary American Public Mealih Association, 




TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAOB. 

General Introduction, 1 

Tfie Kitchen 18 

L PliOTEIP - CONTAINING FoODS ( APimal Sort), AND 

THEIR Preparation. 22 

Methods of Cooking Meat, 32 

Soup Making, 33, 89 

Boiling Meat, 84, 40 

Frying in Fat, 85, 40 

Baking Meat, 35. 41 

Broiling Meat, 86, 42 

Use of Thermometer, 43 

Heat Saver. _ , 44 

To Make Meat Tender 45 

Becipes for Cooking Meat 46 

Beef 46 

Veal,-.. , , 50 

Mutton and Lamb, 51 

Pork 52 

Fish and Fish Soups, - 55 

Fowl and Fowl Soups, 67 

Eggs and Egg Dishes, 58 

Cheese and Cheese Dishes. 61 

Care and Use of Milk. 68 

Sour Milk 64 

II. Fats and OiiiS 66 

Uses of Fatg. 71 

Meat and Vegetable Sauces, 72 

III. The Carbohydrate-containino Foods and their 

PliEFABATION 75 

Grains, 79 

Sugars, 80 

U 



X Table of Contents, 

Legumea, 81 

Potatoes and other VeKt-tablcs, 83 

FruitA. 83 

The Cooking of Grains, 85 

Grains Cooked Whole. ^ 85 

Cooking of Grits, ■ 86 

Corn Flour 87 

Graham Fiour 88 

Fine Wheat Flour 89 

Macaroni and Noodles. 89 

Flour Raised with Fat 91 

Flour Raised with Egg 92 

Egg Pancakes, &c 92 

Flour Raised with Carbonic Acid Gas, 93 

(g) Yeast Raised, 

White Bread 94 

Rye and Corn Bread, _ 97 

Biscuits, Rolls, &c. _ - . - 97 

Yeast Pancakes. .- 99 

Buckwheat Flour, 100 

(6) Raised with Soda. 

Methods, 101 

Boda Biscuits 102 

Uses of Biscuit Dough, &o 102 

Soda Corn Breads 1Q3 

Soda Pancakes, without Eggs, 103 

Soda Pancakes, with Eggs 104 

Uses for Bread. 105 

Simple Sweet Dishes, 107 

Milk Puddings, 107 

Fruit Puddings, with Biscuit Dough, 108 

Fruit Puddings with Bread, IQQ 

Custard Puddings, 110 

Bread and Custard Puddings, HQ 

Suet Puddings, 112 

Pudding Sauce, 112 

Fritters 113 

Cooking of Vegetables, . 115 



c 



Tahle of Contents. xi 



Soups without Meat, 117 

Vegetable Soups, 117 

Flour and Bread Soups, 121 

Milk Soups or Porridges^ 122 

Fruit Soups, 124 

Additions to Soups, - 126 

Dumplings for Soups and Stews, 127 

Flavors and Seasonings 180 

Drinks. 183 

Cookery for the Sick 137 

Twelve Bills of Fare — Explanation, 142 

Class L (with letter of advice to mother of the family), 143 

Class II 163 

Claflalll 164 

TwKLYB Cold Dlnnebs, - 176 



uiyuizuu by GoOglc 



INTRODUGTIOIsr. 



Few things are of more importance than that we 
should find onrselyeB physically and mentally equal to 
oar day's work, but not many of us realise how largely 
this depends upon the food we eat. 

Supposing there to be just money enough in a given 
family to buy the right kind and quantity of food. 
Now if this money is not wisely expended, or if after 
the food has been bought it is spoiled in the cooking, 
the results will be yeiy serious for the members of 
that &mily; they will be under-nourished and they 
will suffer in clear-headedness, bodily strength, and 
in the ciise of children, in bodily development. 

Surely the right condition of the body is too im- 
portant to be left to chance ; the best scientific knowl- 
edge, the best practical heads should be at its service, 
and this is the case, indeed, to a large extent in Eu- 
rope, where the food of the soldiers and of the inmates 
of public institutions is furnished more or less ac- 
cording to certain rules that haye been deduced 
partly from observation, and partly from scientific 
experiment. 

The application of scientific principles on these lines 
IS not of long standing, for the inyestigations that have 
clinched them are all of oomparatiyely recent date* At 



L^iyuiz^cd by Google 



2 Mistary of hod Stud^. 



the end of the lost century a beginning was made in 
France and in Germany in connection with philan- 

thropic efforts to improve the food of the p^^* »r, and it 
was at this time that Count Kiiniford introduced into 
the soup kitchens of Munich, the soup that has heen 
named after him. From this time on interest in the 
subject of foods, both for men and domestic animals, 
steadily increased, although experimenters were con- 
stantly coming to wrong conclusions because the 
sciences of Organic Chemistry and Physiology, as far 
as they coucerued the subject, were not far enough 
advanced. 

It was only in the early forties that the first ex- 
perimental agricultural stations were established, but 
so rapidly hare they multiplied that they now number 

more than a hundred in Europe alone; and in these 
and in the luburatories of the great universities, 
analyses have been made of most of the foods used by 
men and animals, and also tests of the relative flesh 
and fat producing power of different foods and com- 
binations of foods. 

For years the results of these inyestigations hare 
been applied with profit to the feeding of cattle, 
bnt it was a case of threatened wholesale starvation 
in England that first turned the attention oi properly 
trained persons to a like study of the nourishment of 
human beings. During our ciyil war the condi tion of 
the cotton spinners in Lancashire and Cheshire, Eng- 
land, became so serious as to make government help 
ui'cessary to keep them from starving, and in 18(>'-3 and 
1803 Dr. Edward Snuih was commissioned to examine 
into the the dietetic needs. of the distressed operatives. 





AlffUsh inveatigaiions. 



In his report lor 1863 are found tables of the food con- 
sumed per week by 634 families, and in spite of the dif- 
ficulties standing in ihu way of sucli an investigation, 
the foods consumed were classilied into tables showin«^^ 
the amounts of tlie difterent food principles taken 
per week by each family. 

One of the great practical results following from 
this inyestigation was the determination of the mini- 
mum amount of each nutritive principle which men, 
women and children need, to keep them in fair health. 
The amount of food with which an unemployed man 
can fight of[ starration, and the diseases temporarily 
incident to it^ was found to be represented in 35 ounces 
of good bread per day, and the necessary amount of 
wholesome water. 

Since the publication of Dr. Smith's report similar 
inquiries liave been instituted by the scientists of other 
countries, and many analyses have been made of 
the exact amount and kinds of food eaten by various 
classes of laborers under the most Yaried conditions. 
Professors Voit and Pettenkof er of Munich have even 
accounted for every particle of food that passed 
throufdi the bodv of a man, both while he was at work 
and while he was idle. Tliey have also noted how 
much of his own body was consumed when he ate 
nothing. Finally, a great number of averages have 
been taken and 80*called standard dietaries" con- 
structed, by which is meant the average amount of 
each of the chief food principles that keep an average 
muscle-worker in good condition, when doing aver- 
age work. 

£ivery one will admit that it is of great importance 



4 AppUcaiiom io the Mous^ioid. 



-for the farmer to know in what proportion he shall 
lay in hay and otlier food for the winter feeding of 
liis stock; the animuls must tlirive, but tliere must 
be no waste by furnishing food in the wrong quanti- 
ties or proportions. 

For the housewife, the food qaeation in its relation 
to her family can be stated in the very same words. 
It is important that she should economize, bnt her 
patli will bo full of ])itfalls if she does not understand 
in what true economy consists. Most people with a 
real interest in this subject, have had at some period 
of their lives certain pet theories as to food. Per- 
haps they have been at one time conTinced that most 
people ate too mnch, at another, that meat was the 
all strengthener, or they may have been afflicted 
with the vegetarian fad, and whatever their special 
views have been they have thought that they rested 
them u]>(>n facts. But surely they would never have 
pinned their faith to one-sided diets if they had 
rightly comprehended the main facts of nutrition. 
We believe that if these facts as at present interpreted, 
and the world's experience in applying them, can be 
put at the command of the housewife, she can use 
them to great profit. 

We have employed the term "food principles"; 
what do we mean by it f Eveiyone knows what is 
meant by a food, as meat or bread, and everyone 
knows that the food offered us by our butchers and 
grocers comes from the animal and vegetable king- 
doms. The oxygen we breatlie and the water we 
drink nature furnishes fur us directly, so to speak, 
though unfortunately for many of us, and especially 





Food Principles. 5 

for young children, the former is not thought of as a 
food. Oxygen aside, it has been found by those who 
haye studied the matter^ that all foods contain one or 
more of five dasBes of constitaents, called nntiitiye 
ingredients" or ^^food prindples." These five prin- 
ciples are: 

(1) Water. 

(2) Proteidfi. 

(3) Fats. 

(4) Carbohydrates. 

(5 ) Salts or mineral constitaents. 

WATBB. 

It is important to note that our bodies when fall- 
grown are two-thirds water, and that our food con- 
tains from 1 to 94^^ of it, Oonsidering the scope of 
this essay, it must be left to take care of itself as a 

food. 

PB0IEID& 

A class of nearly allied bodies is included under 
this head. The wliule class is sometimes called 
'^Albumens. " 

The housewife is familiar with proteids in such 
foods as the lean of meat, in eggs and cheese. These 
contain the principle in various proportions; for 



example. 

Lean of meat has - 15-21 ^ 

Eggs in both white and yolk - - l^.Sj^ 

Fresh cows' milk on an average - - 3.4<^ 

Cheese 25-30 

Dried Oodfisb * - ' * - 90 j( 



Digitized by Google 



6 Food Principles, 

Vegetables are more deficient in proteids though 
the gruius and legumes coutaia much o£ it. 

Wheat flour has - - - 10 to 12 
Peas, beans and Lentils haye 22.85 to 27.7^ 

In fresh vegetables we rtnd only from i to 3^, 
excepting green peas and beans in which the proteids 
reach 5 to 6.5j^. 

FATS. 

Fats are obtained from both the animal and veg- 
etable kingdoms. Those used by us in cookery come 

mostly froiji aiiinKils, and arc known tu the house- 
wife as butter, iard and tallow. Vegetable food as a 
rule, is very poor in fats^ containing from 0 to 
only. 

Some of the cereals, like corn and oats contain 
from 4 to 7)^ of fats. 

CAllBOUYDJiATES. 

The bodies classed as carbohydrates" are found 
mainly in yegetables. The housekeeper knows them 
as starches and sugars. 

Under the istarche's proper are included «uch 
things as the gtarches of grains and seeds, Iceland 
moss, gums and dextrin. 

Milk is one of the few animal products that has 
more than a very small quantity of carbohydrates. 
It contains on the ayerage about 4.8^ of this prin- 
ci2)lc ; — slightly more than of either protoids or fats. 

SALTS. 

The tiling that give hardness to our bones^ lik^ 



Functiom of Food Principles. 



calcium phosphate, and the common salt with which 
we flavor our f ood^ illastrate this class. 

TUKCTIOITB OF POOD PBIKGIPLE8. 

To know in what proportion these food principles 
should be represented in our diet, we must inquire 
into the part played by each of them in the body. The 
first and the last principle may be dismissed briefly* 
The former, water, is the great medium which floats 
things through the body ; the latter, salts, are com- 
bined in various ways with the solids and fluids of 
our foods> and we shall not easily suiier from lack of 
them. 

The other three food principles (let ns call them in 
* the following pages the three great food principles), 
cannot be so snmmarily dealt with. We might say, 
briefly and dogmatically, that the proteids are "flesh 
foods," the fats are **hcat foods," the carbohydrates 

work foods." To be sure, experimenters are agreed 
on the main points, but the different schools are still 
at war on the final explanations and on many details, 
and it has become more and more evident that we 
cannot portion off the work of the body in this sim- 
ple style. Though each of the three great food prin- 
ciples can be said to have a favorite part which it 
plays better than any other, yet we find that like an 
actor of varied talents, it has more than one r61e in 
its repertoire. 

PUNCTIOli OF PB0TEID8. 

That this class is indispensable we have the best 
of proofs. It miwt be given us in one or another of its 



8 



Fundim of Proteids. 



forms, for, even if we are not utilities, nearly one half 
of our body is made np of muscle which is one fifth 
proteid, and the nitrogen in this proteid can only be 
famished by proteid again, since neither fats nor car- 
bohydrates contain any of it ; therefore in making up 
bills of fare, let us remember that growing and working 
proteid, yes, even idle proteid as Dr. Smith found, 
needs proteid, and that there is nothing in any of 
the other food principles that can entirely take its 
place. 

Though we think of proteid mostly as a great body 
bnilder and restorer, it can also to some extent fnr- 

nish fat when it stands m a certain relation to tiie 
fats and carbohydrates of our food, and we are assured 
by experimenters that it also furnishes heat and mus- 
cle energy ander certain conditions. 

In these last two activities^ however, it is far ex- 
celled by fats and carbohydrates. We shall therefore 
think of it as the nitrogen-furnisher of our tissues, 
and also as tlie grand stimulant among foods, incit- 
ing the body^ as it does, to bum up more of other 
kmds. 

Scientists, at one time, held the opinion that onr 
mnscle energy comes chiefly from proteids. This view 
has been abandoned, but many a working man still 
believes that meat is the only kind of food that is of 

any account; he Lluuks uf lau and starches as quite 
unimportant comparatively. Now it luis been proved 
over and over again, tliat we can combme meat with 
fats and vegetable food in such a proportion that it 
shall play only its main rdle, viz., that of building 
and restoring, while these latter furnish the beat and 



Futwtiati of Fals and Carbohydrates. 9 

muscle energy needed. Proteid food is such a costly 
article that it will not do to put it at work which 
cheaper material can do even better. 

FUKCTIOir OF FAI8» 

The fats also have more than one office in the body. 
They can be stored as body fat, or they can be burned 
and give ofL heat, and they may also serve as a source 
of mnsoular energy, in an indirect manner at least. 

FUKOnOK OF 0ABB0HTDBATB8. 

The Carbohydrate principle furnishes fat to our 
tissues, and is a source of heat and muscle energy, 
indeed the chief source of mnscle energy in ail ordi- 
nary diets. 

So far we baye bad ebiefly in mind tbe real work- 
ing constitnents of food, if we may so speak. But 

many things cannot be studied or classiiied in the 
above way; they must be looked at from another 
point of view. 

Thus, a pinch of pepper, a cup of cofiee, a fine, 
jnicy strawberry, — ^wbat of these? They may con- 
tain all five of tbe food principles, but wbo cares for 
tbe proteid action or carbohydrate effect of bis cnp 
of good coffee at breakfast, or what interest for ns 
has the heating effect of the volatile oil to which the 
strawberry owes a part of its delicious taste? 

Snrely the economical housekeeper wbo would 
throw cat of the list of necessaries all tbe things that 
tickle tbe palate, tbut rouse tbe sense of smell, tbut 



L.iyui/ed by Google 



10 



Flavorings. 



please the eye and stimulate onr tired nenres, just 
because these things contam but little food, would 
make a grave mistake. She may know just what cuts 
of meat to bay, what vegetables are most healthful 
and economical, but if she does not understand how 
to ''make the mouth water," her labor is largely lost 
Especially if she has bat little money, should she pay 
great attention to this subject, for it is the only way 
to induce the body to take up plain food with relish. 

The list of these spices, flavors, harmless drinks 
and the like, is a long one. Unfortunately, we have 
no comprehensive word that will include everything 
of the sorty from a sprig of parsley to a cup of coffee; 
the German calls them ** Genuss-mittel ^ — *^ pleasure- 
giving things." 

PBOPOBTIOXrS AND AMOUNTS OF FOOD PBINCIPLSS. 

We have brought our discussion of the three groat 
food principles to tlie point where we can enquire in 
what proportions and amounts these should be repre- 
sented in our diet. 

The standard daily dietary that is most frequently 
cited, and which, perhaps, best represents the food 
consumption of the average European workman in 
towns, is that ])roposed by Prof. Voit. This dietary 
was made upon tiie basis of a large number of ob- 
served cases. It demands for a man of average size, 
engaged in average manual labor, 

Proteids.* Fate. Carbohydrates. 

118 gms. 56 gms. 5u() gms. 

Now it is the opinion of all competent judges, that 





standard Dietaries* 11 

at least one third of this proteid should come from 

the animal kingdom, and this one third, if given in 
the form of fresh beef, would be represented by 230 
grams of batcher's meat^ calculated to consist of 
Bone and tendon, .... ISgms. 

Fat, 81 « 

Lean, 191 " 

When we take whole populations into account, we 
find that little, if any, more meat than this falls to 
each person per day. Thns the ayerage consamption 
per day for three great cities is given as follows; 
Berlin, - - - - 135 gms. per cap. 
New York, ... - 226 " " 

London, - - - - 274 " 

Of course these aTerages include children, hut they 
also include great numbers of the well-to-do, who eat 

much more mciiL than their bodies need. 

We will add a few more examples of dietaries, 
some of which are used by the writer in making out 
the bills of fare given in this essay. 
Protelds, Fate, GkrbohydrateB, 

Proposed by Prof. Voit for 

a man at hard work. 

Allowed to Geirnau aoldien 

in garrison. 

Proposed by Prof. At water 
for American al Laid work. 

By the same for American 
at moderate work. 

Proposed by Prof. Volt for 
a womaD. 

By the same for children 
from 7 to 15 years, 



gms. 


gms. 


gms. 


145 


100 


450 


120 


56 


500 


150 


150 


500 




125 


450 


100 


60 


400 


W 


00 


920 



i^iyuizcd by Google 



12 



We will give an insttinoe of how much below these 

figures the amount consumed sometimes falls. 

Prof. Boehm found that a poor North German 
family, consisting of a man, wife and a child five 
years old, had in one week for their food: 



Potatoes, ------ 41 lbs. 

Rye flour, - - - - - - 2^ lbs. 

Meat, If lbs. 

Rice, - - - - - - - ^Ib. 

Bye Bread, - - - - - 12 lbs. 

A very little milk. 



OaLcUlating the food principles contained in these 

amounts, we find that the three indlTidoals daily 
consumed of: 

Proteids, Fats, Carbohydrates, 

175.5 gms. 41 gms. 1251. gms. 

It needs no comment to show how insufiicient is 
this dietary in amount, and how inooirect in pro- 
portion. 

We haye selected Prof. Atwater's dietary for a man 

at modenite manual labor as the basis of our twelve 
bills of fare and have taken Voit's staudard for women 
and children. 

Our climate is more trying and our people work 
faster, and we shall do well to allow more fat and meat 
to our working-man than the foreign dietaries provide. 
If our man is to get daily one-third of his proteid 
ill llie form of animal food, this would ln' represented 
by 8 ozs. of butcher's meat (without bouu), by from 
0 to M ozs, cheese, or by 8 e^s. 



Ameriean l^MtU. li 

We belieye that it ia better to go a little high rather 
than too low with proteid food. As a nile, people 

who eat enough purteids, and especially enough animal 
food, are vigorous and have what wo call stamina," 
and doctors incline to the belief that such people 
resist disease hotter because their blood and tissue are- 
less watery than in the case of people who draw their 
proteids almost entirely from such vegetables as pota- 
toes. Bat many workingmen in America would be 
surprised to learn how well health and strength can 
be maintained on what is, after all, not such a very 
large amount of meat, provided the rest of the dietary 
oontunp enough vegetable proteid and fat. 

PBACnGAL APPLICATIONS. 

It now remains for ns to see whether the economist 
can get practical help from the foregoing facts about 
the character of foods and the use that is made of 
them in the body. 

We have seen that we cannot economize in the 
amount of our food beyond certain limits and yet re- 
main healthy and stroiig; also that we must not 
gruatly alter the relative proportions iu winch expe- 
rience has shown that these foods are best combined. 
The true field of household economy has, then, 
certain prescribed limits. 

Its scope lies, 1st. In furnishing a certain food 
principle in its cheap rather than its dear form; 
for example, the proteid of beef instead of that of 
chicken, fat of meat instead of butter. 2nd. Hav- 
ing bought foods wisely, in cooking them in such a 
manner as to bring out their full nutritive value; for 



i^iyuized by Google 



14 



Scope of the Economisl 



instance, making a roast jnicy and dellcioas instead 

of dry aiul tiisteless. 3d. In learning how to use 
every scrap of food to advantage, us in sonp makin^^, 
and 4th, if we add to these the art of so flavoring and 
Tarying as to make simple materials relish, we have 
eoYored the whole field of the household eoonomist, 
60 far as the food question is concerned. 

We hope she will find help in the following pages, 
for it will be part of our task in this essay to examine 
difierent articles of food as to their nutritive value, and 
to recommend such combinations and such methods of 
cooking as will make the ntmost out of a certain sum 
of money. As to foods, we hare in America a large 
range of choice; staple raw products cost less generally 
than they do in Europe and the laboring man here 
has somewliat more money to buy with. The anxious 
provider, who must feed many mouths on what .^eems 
an insufficient sum, may feel assured that he can, 
without doubt, learn to do better than he now does. 
In this line we most not disdain to learn lessons 
whereyer we can. 

There is an unfortunate prejudice among us against 
learning of foreign countries. The American work- 
man says indignantly that he does not want to learn 
how to live on starvation wages.'' But the facts, 
viewed coolly, are just these: the inhabifcants of older 
countries have learned some lessons that we too 
must soon learn whether we will or no, and to ])rofit 
by these lessons before we are really obliged to, will 
in II ) way lower wages, it will simply help us to get 
more comfort and pleasure out of our money. 

Students of economy, political and domestic, find 





Lessons from Foreign Countries, \^ 



no better flchool than the experience of older 

countries, and cunstantlv dra-w lessons from their 
greater thrift and economy in living. Mrs. Helen 
Campbell found, among the poor sewing women of 
New York, that none were skillful in cooking their 
scanty food excepting only the German and Swiss 
women* All observing travelers 'nnanimonsly give 
this testimony, — "If our American workman knew 
how to make as much of his large wage as the for- 
eigner does of his small one, he could live in luxury." 

But you ask, wliat are the special lessons to be 
learned of the foreign housewife ? We answer, chiefly 
self-denial and saving. Bo not give np in despair 
becanse yon have a small income and resign yourself 
to living meanly, in a hand to mouth fashion. Dili- 
gent study of the question and resolute al)stention from 
luxuries will solve the problem, if it can be solved. 

We indulge ourselves and our children too much 
in what tastes good, while all the time we know we have 
not money enough to buy necessaries. For instance, 
the consumption of sugar in America was in 1887, 68 
lbs. per liead, in Germany hardly more thjin one third 
that amount. Tiiis mean.^ ri ]ar</er consummation of 
sweetmeats than we can aiford and at the same time 
be well fed otherwise. 

We seem, in general, to spend too much money in 
our country on food compared with what we use in 
other directions; one great trouble is that we do not 
know how to save every scrap of food and use it 
ngain in some form. For one thing, we have yet to 
learn the great art of soup making, — and it seems 
also, of soup eating. 



• t 

Soups, 



The American housekeeper wonld say to me: Thia 
18 nothing new^ for years weVe been hearing about 
sonps. We don^t like sonpsi *^ I only ask, have you 

tried them for a considerable length of time, so that 
you have become skilled in making them, and your 
family used to their taste?" One fact alone ought 
to insure for them a good trial; that at least three 
nations, the French, German and Italian, make daily 
use of them and have for generations. To take part 
of our food in this form is an absolute necessity if we 
are to do the beaL pusbiblti with a. certain amount oi 
money. 



The practical difficulties in the way of improT^ 
ment in household cookery are not small. As cook, 

we have the wife and mother, who has too little time 
for this very inipurUmt branch of household work; 
she has had, perhaps, no good training in the art 
of cookery (for it is an art), and besides, her 
kitchen and kitchen utensils are not at all what 
they should be* Indeed, the qualifications for a giyen 
task could not well be f urthw from the ideal. 

In Europe families of small means have many 
helps unknown to us. In the first place, bread is 
never baked at home, the bakers' bread being botii 
excellent and cheap. It would seem that among us, 
bakers' bread must shortly improTO in quality and 
decrease in price; either the profits must be too 
large, or the business not well managed. For 
instance, in those parts of Germany wliere white 
bread is eaten as a staple, it costs a trifle over 3 



PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. 





The Foreign Hmmket^n 17 

cents a ponnd, while floar ol average quality ooets 
about the same. In contrast with this^ compare the 
prices of bread and floar in our own country where 

in no large city is bread quoted at less than 7 cents, 
while flour costs 3 cents. That is, bread costs in Ger- 
many about the same as flour and in America more 
than twice as much; and yet the German baker is no- 
tably a prosperous person I 

The foreign housekeeper has still further help from 
the baker. If she makes a cake or pie, she sends it 
out to be baked, and pays from one to two cents 
(the fuel would have cost more); joints of meat and 
mixed dishes are also sent to be baked for the same 
price; and before any bakeshop in a German city, at 
noon on Sunday^ can be seen a line of servant girls, 
each in turn receiving a steaming dish as it is taken 
from the oven. The soup kitchens ( Volhs KUehen) 

of various grades are also a great help. The writer 
has repeatedly had brought from one of them an excel- 
lent meat broth ( 1 pt. for 2 cents ), and good cooked 
vegetables are furnished for a price less than they 
could be cooked for athome, if one took any account 
of time and fire. 

But such helps are not yet to any great extent 
available to the American woniun; she must wrestle 
with her own problem at home and solve it as best 
she can. 



THE KITOHEU". 



The kitchen of a woman of average means is not 

the ideal kitchen. It is perhaps too small or not 
light enough, or it may have still more serious defects, 
as a bad drain. We must take it as it is, however, 
requiring only that it contain what is necessary to 
the end ve haye in Tiew^— plain cooking for a ^m- 
ily of six. 

In the cheaper city dwellings the 

k lichen is small, too small for good 
ventilation, and for the heavier kinds of work as 
washing; but for cooking, a very small kitchen can 
be so arranged as to answer every purpose. 

Any one who has seen a ship's kitchen can under- 
stand thi& The cook as he stands before his range 
is within reach of all his stores, for rows of drawers 
and shelves literally line tlie walls from floor to ceil- 
ing, little tables for pastry or cake making are 
drawn out of the wall and pushed in again when not 
wanted, and every inch of floor and wall space is used 
to the best advantage. This cook wonld tell yon that 
he did not want a larger kitchen ; he wonld only lose 
time nuiniug abont in it. 

Begin to utilize the wall space. If 
you have not yet as many shelves iis 

the walls will accommodate, put up more, and espe- 

18 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by VjOOQle 



Arrangmnent of Kitchen, 



19 



cially about and above the Btovc, so that as you stand 
at your cooking you can reach salt, pepper and every 
other flavor tliat can be used in a soup or stew; cook- 
ing spoons and forks and knives, })otlids and holders 
-—all these should be at your hand. Let a carpenter 
fasten into the mortared wall strips of wood that will 
hold nails and a few shelves^ and if the stoTC is in a 
niche with wall on two or even three sides of it, all 
the better. On these nails should han^i^ nearly every 
implemeiU used in cooking, and on the shelves should 
be found all spices and ilavors; farther back can be 
placed what is more seldom used. If there are no 
drawers^ never mind, use dose tin boxes for as many 
things as yon can; if no dosed cnpboard for your 
dishes, hang a curtain before the open shelves. 

The nearer your sink is to the stove the better, 
that is Ihc path your feet must oftcnest travel. 
There must be a table of some sort very near the 
stove; if it is a movable one, all the better, or it 
may be a broad shelf with a veiy strong and safe 
hinged support under it, letting down when not in 
use. 

I take for granted that the main part of your work 
is to be done on this stove and table, and tliat a well 
stocked pantry, fitted out for the making of pastry 
and cake and elaborate dishes, is not within your reach 
any more than the time for making such. 
„^ The utensils you need are few, but 

these few you must have. Consider 
the vfilue of the food materials that you use; a few 
burns on an old sauce pan will quite buy a new one. 
We will speak only of the most important and abso- 
lutely necessaiy utensils. 



i^iyui^cd by Google 



20 



First, do not lue tin ; it is cheap, but coal is not, 
and you will waste a great deal of coal in trying to 
cook in tin. Brass and copper cooking yesaels are to 

be avoided bj one who must economize, lis they are 
expensiye and require too much care to keep them 
free from the poisonous verdigris. 

Of chief importance among your utensils is a flat 
bottomed iron pot with dose fitting iron lid. Get 
the smoothest and best, even if it cost double. In 
this you will roast meat with little fire, cC)ok yege* 
tables, all but peas and beans, cuok anything indeed 
that 16 not acid. Have two of these, if you can, of 
different sizes. Next, an iron frying pan, also of 
the smoothest wrought iron and light; this too 
should have a close fitting coyer. Some people con- 
sider iron utensils heavy and old fashioned, but where 
economy is an object, no other ware is so good and 
satisfactor} . The blue or grey enamelled ware is very 
nice but will not stand great heat and ea^^ily chips 
and cracks, but you should have one kettle of tliis 
ware as it is yaluable for cooking fruit and anything 
acid. Yon must haye a wire gridiroii for toasting 
bread and broiling meat ; this you should use for 
many things which you now cook in the frying pan. 
The tea-kettle is a m; Liter of course, and a griddle. 
There is one other utensil not as common, but wliich 
deserves to be, via., a steamer ; a simple pot with 
perforated bottom which will fit tightly into the top 
of the iron pot, and have a yeiy tightly fitting cover. 
Its use will be discussed later. 

You can hardly do without a number uf earthen 
jugs, glazed with lead-free enamel, especially for 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by VjOOQle 



Fud, 



21 



cooking and holding milk. Get also a number of 

wooden spoons; they are cheap and clean, and of con- 
Tcnient shape for stirring. The old fashioned pud- 
ding stick of tlie Yankee kitchen is the earliest form 
among us, and many people know no other. 

A good stoTo is of first importance in a 
kitchen, but fortunately good stoyes haye 
become common. A graver question, howeyer, is the 
cost of fuel to bo burned in them. Of course coal 
must be the stand-by, and when the stove is heated 
up as on ironing and baking days, care can be taken 
to use the fire to its fullest capacity; in winter, 
dishes can be cooked ahead for seyeral days. 

To cook a single dish or for boiling a tea- 
kettle a coal oil stoye is a saying; it is also 
invaUuible for keeping a jiot at a siiiimunug iieat, — a 
thing very difficult to accouiplish on a stove. 
^^^^ For the same purpose, and for any steady 
cooking, and above all for broiling meat^ eveiy 
housekeeper ought to haye appliances for burning 
charcoal; it only needs a grating with a rim 2 or 3 
inches high, to let down into the stove hole (a sort of 
deep spider with a grated bottom). For such pur- 
poses, a buisht4 of hard wood charcoal costing 15 or 
20 cents would last a long time. • Charcoal is almost 
the only fuel used in Paris for cooking; indeed, 
throughout France and in Western Germany it is in 
yery common use. 

^ « For "Cooking Safe" as a saver of 

**Oookiiicr Safe." , , 

fuel, sec page 44. 



PBOTElJJ-COljfTAIXIi^G FOODS 

AND THEIR PREPARATION. 



We have already in the Introduction called atten- 
tion to the importance of this food principle. It is 
well for us to bear in mind that there are three great 
classes of Proteids, Albumens proper. Caseins, and 
and Fibrins, and that in both plants and animals are 
fonnd lepreaentatiTes of these three classes. Thas, 
in plant juices and in eggs we have things belonging 
to the Albumen class; in the curd of sour milk and 
in the legumine of the pod-covered plauis we have 
examples of caseius; and in the gluten of grainR and 
in the clot whipped oat of blood we hare examples 
of fibrins. 

AKIHAL FOODS. 

Our animal funds contain some other thin p"s that 
the housewife lauks with proteids and we have a few 
words to say about one of them, viz., gelatine, that 
nitrogenous substance boiled out of bones and car- 
tilage. 

In the history of foods this ?elatine, 
Qelatliie» Hill, of i i i i i 

like meat extract, has phi} td a great 

part. Before the real functions of tiie food princi- 
ples were underBtood it was thought that what could 
be extracted by water from a piece of meat comprised 
all in it that was of value to the body; and so ithap- 



QeksHne, 



pened that for more than a hnndied years after Papin 
had discovered the method of extracting all the gel- 
atine out of bones (which he did by the aid of that 

contrivance still known in kitchens as the Papin 
Soup Digester") gelatine was considered to be one of 
the most, if not the most nourishing constituent of 
meats. In the liwt decade of the 18th century, and 
. in the early part of this the French made great use 
of gelatine under the impression that it was a proteid 
because it yielded nitrogen to the chemist. Improved 
methods of extracting it were invented, and so gen- 
eral did its use become, especially in the public insti- 
tutions of Paris, that from 1829-38, two and three 
quarters million portions of bone-gelatine soup were 
dealt out to the inmates of a single hospital. But in 
spite of the opinions of eminent scientists that gela- 
tine soups and gelatine tableis were a perfect substi- 
tute for proteids, their consumption decreased; physi- 
cians again took hold of the subject, and by the 
middle of the century opinion had so changed that 
nearly all, if not all, food value was denied to them. 
Modem experimentation based on more rational meth- 
ods has put gelatine in its right place. It is a food, just 
as much so as is fat, but like fat it cannot play the 
r61e of proteid although a certain amount taken with 
fats and carbohydrates will enable the body to get 
along with a little less proteid. It is even said by 
Prof. Voit to excel fat in its ability to do half duty 
for proteid materiaL 

We have thought it well to speak of this because 
of a sort of superstitious regard in the kitchen for 

stock," a surviyai, one would think, of Papin's time. 



24 



Msiraeiiim* 



I 



A good German housewife was wont to diflconne to 
the writer on the economical yirtues of a certain 
**Prau Doctor" who always hoiled her bones three 

times " and dwellers in many a household have had 
their nostrils assailed by the smell of glue^ during 
the sixth hour of bone boiling. 

But if the importance of gelatine was and is still 
exaggerated^ this is still more true of the other parts 
of meat that can be extracted by water. 
8oL Albumen and We have Seen that hot water ooag- 

Bztractfves. ulates proteid, and once coagulated, 
it will not dissolve in water, and for this reason the 
soup generally contains of this valuable principle only 
the soluble albumen which rose as scum. If the cook 
has skimmed this oil, the soup whioh she calls strong 
is strong with flaTOis rather than with nntritiye princi- 
ples. 

To show how very little real food a good tasting 
meat soup may contain^ we will give an analysis made 
by Prof. Konig. 

He took 1 lb* of beef and about 6^ 

Aualysia of Soup. - jaxjx-l i_ 

02. of Teu bones^ and treated them^ he 
says^ as is usually done in the kitchen to get a pint 

of good strong soup or bouillon. This contained 

Proteids^ Fat, ExtractiyeSy Salts. 

1.19^ 1.48^ 1.83^ .32^ 

I But where are the albumens that were in the meat 

■ 

{to begin with ? Many of them are still there in that 
/stringy, sodden mass, the ''soup meat," which the 

cook tells us contiuns no further value. It cunsists 
of cooked connective tissue and albumen; now these 



L-'iLjuiz-cd by 



Kbnig^s An^ysis of Soup. 25 

are foods and they must be rescued from the g.irbaore 
barrel, for with the help of the chopping kuifo and 
the ]r rb hag we can make them still do proteid duty 
in our bodies. 

Beal Importanoe If we do not OTervalue either the [ 
of Soup, gelatine or the flavoring matters in oar i 
meat soaps, nor throw away the meat oat of which \ 

they are made, we shall begin to make soups on the | 
right basis, that is an understanding of the real value \ 
of the materials we are working with, and we shall use 
meat for our soups less often than we now do perhaps, 
considering its high price and oar greater need of it 
cooked in other ways. Soaps shonld not be regarded 
as a laxary, neither as the last resort of poverty, bat 
as a necessary part of a dinner, just as they are now ^ 
used by all classes in Europe; but they need not be J 
made of good cuts of meat, nor indeed, of meat at all. } 
Proteid as we We will now direct our attention to j 
buy It. the proteid as we buy it. i 
We cannot here take np the chemical composition 
and exact natritive valae of every kind of meat to be 
bought at the butcher's stall, the fish market and the 
poultry stand. But we must note a few points of 
importance. 

We know that butchers' meat con- 
BuLchers meat. f£om 60j^ to H^fL of wttter, accord- 
ing to the qnality of the piece and the kind of animal. 
Most people in buying meat think first of the *ed 

part; they may know that it is advantageous to buy 
meat that is streaked with fat, but they hardly realize 
how wise it is to do so. As a rule, fat takes the place 
of water. Let as consalt tables of analyses for the 

3 



Anaiifsis of Meeds. 



amounts of water, proteids and nitrogenonB extrao- 
tires, fats and salts contained in lean pieces and in 
pieces stieaked with fat In Ptof. Kdnig's yalnable 
treatise on Foods we find Snch analyses, carefnlly col- 
lected and sifted out of a large amount of material; 
Prof. Konig's An- Samples of neck, iondorloin, shoul- 
aiyses of Meat. der, hind-quarter and so on, just as 
bought at the butchers', weie analyzed after being 
freed from adherent hm^ fat» and the ayerage com- 
position of all the difbrent cats was sa follows: — 

Fat and Iwn ox WatflT Neurogenous j.^ 

oomuarcd. 8ub6tance8 

% % % 

From a yery fat ox... 66.43 17.19 26.38 

From a medium fat ox 72.25 20.91 5.19 
From a lean ox 76.71 20.78 1.60 

These tables illustrate how wise it is to buy meat 
from a yeiy fat animal. They show that a pound of 

meat from a fat ox may have more than 20<^ less 
water than a corresponding piece from a lean one; of 
course such a piece may contain from 3 to Ioks 
proteid, but to compensate for this, it will have 26^ 
more&t. 

Let us giye another table which illuBtrates that 
pieces like tenderloin are not the richest in proteids 

and fats, thougli they do have the finest flavor. It 
may help to console those whose purses do not aiiow 
them to buy these expensiye cuts. 




uiyuizuu Dy GoOglc 



Different Cuts Compared. 



% % % 

Neck 73.6 19.5 6.8 

Shoulder 50.6 14.5 34. 

Tenderloin «3.4 18.8 16.7 

Hind-quarter 55.05 20.81 23.32 

In this case the difference between shoulder and 
tenderloin as to the amount of water contained in 
each is striking. In the case of medium fat and lean 
animals, poor and good pieces approach each other 

more nearly in composition. 

We regret that the Bcope of this essay will not allow 
us to give drawings and full illustrations of the dif- 
ferent parts of an animal, with advice in detail as to 
what to buy. We are glad to mention in this connec- 
tion a former prize essay — ''Healthy Homes and 
Foods for the Working Glasses'' — ^which gives much 
information needed by the housekeeper as to the 
qualities and comparative value of the meat from dif- 
ferent animals^ of milk and milk products. 
BomemetttocoBip' butchers' meat beef must always 
be considered the most economical^ its 
choice being goyemed by facts just stated. Fat mut- 
ton also ranks high. 

Pork, Say what we may against 
pork, it is a most valuable kind of 
meaty especially for the poor man^ and the laws gov- 
erning its slaughter and sale should be so stringent 
as to protect him. The great importance of salt pork 
and bacon we have considered under ''Fats." 

It is of little use to give rules about buying this 
meat; we must generally take what the butcher fur- 



26 Pish. 

nishes, bat at least we can coolc it well, neyer eating 
it raw eyen when well dried and smoked* 

Fish. From the standpoint of the 

economist fish is worthy of especial 
mention; nature does the feeding, wo have only to 
pay for the catching. In the season when it is best 
and cheapest, fresh fish shonld be nsed freely. We 
have only to remind the houaewife that she loses ^ to 
i of the weight of a fish in bones and head* 
saitedand smoked halted and smoked fish is of great 
fish. importance as food, and not alone for 
people living on tho sea-coast. Salted cod contains, 
according to Konig's tables, 30j^ of Proteids, and this 
fact, together with its low price, iully justifies its 
popularity with all economical people. 

Other salted and preserred fish, as for instance, the 
herring, give variety in the'diet of many a poor fomily. 

LIVER, HEART, ETC. 

Internal Oigans. Qf the internal organs of animals gen- 
erally considered eatable, we really appreciate only the 
liver. The hings, brains, kidneys, hear^ and the 

stomach prepared as tripe, are good food and they are 
often sold very cheap in country towns. Tlio head of 
most animals, as of the calf, is excellent for sou\)s and 
other dishes, and in the country it is often given away. 

Eggs compared To get an idea of the comparatiTe 

^alue of eggs as a food let us compare 
them with medium fat beef. 



Water 


Proteids 


Fat 


% 


i 


% 


72.5 


21. 


5.5 


74.5 


12.5 


13w 



l^'lLjUIZ-UU 



29 



We see that while the water is nearly the same in 
both, the meat has the advantage in proltjidd and the 
eggs the advantage in fat, this fat, moreover, being 
of very fine quality. 

Take eggs at their cheapeet^ as in April when they 
often sell at 15 cents a dozen, that would be 12^ cents 
a pound, 10 eggs of ayerage size weighing a pound. 
They could then be considered cheaper than the high- 
est priced cuts of meat, but still much dearer than 
the cheaper parts, Hank, neck and brisket, at 8 cents. 
So that even at this low price, they are somewhat of 
a luxury to the man who must get his proteid and fat 
in their cheapest form. 

And when we consider that only for a short time 
in the year is the price so low, — eggs being on an 
averac^e quoted at 25 to 30 cents, the showing for them 
as a proteid rival of meat is poor indeed. Except in 
the Spring the economically inclined must be sparing 
of their use even in dessert dishes. When house- 
keepers say, as I have heard them, that eggs at 26 
cents a dozen are cheaper than meat^ they must be 
speaking in comparison with very high priced meats. 

cbecse ( its food In America, cheese is regarded more 
^"^^ as a luxury than as a staple article of j 
food, and yet 1 lb. of cheese is equal in food value to 

more than 2 lbs. of meat, it being very rich in both i 
fat and proteids. Considering this, its price is vcryj 
low and it ought to be a treasure to the poor manj 
and do good service in replacing sometimes the more^ 
expensiTC meat^ 



r 

L.iyui/cd by Google 



30 



Ibod Value of CheeM. 



VMofQbeen Its food Taloe 28 faily leoognized 
atnwad. abroad. For the Swiss peasant it is a 
staple second only to bread, while the nse of it in 

Italy and in Germany is extensiyc. The writer once 
spent several weeks in the house of a large farmer ou 
the slope of Mt. Pilatus in Switzerland^ and obserYod 
daily the food given to the harresters; the luncheon 
Bent twice a day to the fields consisted of a quarter 
section of the grayish skim cheese, accompanied with 
bread. I was told that the poor people in the region 
ate scarcely any uicat, usiug cheese iii its stoiid. 

The writer has also observed the use of cheese in 
Germany. Every locality has its special variety of 
the soft kind made of sour milk, and great amounts 
of the Swiss, both skim and full milk, cheese are con- 
sumed. It is generally eaten nnoooked, but also as an 
addition to cooked food in a great yariety of dishes. 
Digustibiiity of There is no doubt of the food value of 

cbtxsse. cheese, but there does seem to be some 
question as to its digestibility. When we come to 
inquire into this point, we lind that thorough experi- 
ments haye been made by German scientists; Dr. 
Biibner, a pupil of Voit, giyes the result of experi- 
ments on himself. He found that he could not con- 
sume much of it alone, but wit li inilk ho took easily 
200 grams, or nearly ^ lb,, and only when he took as 
iiigh as 517 grams or over a pound daily, was it less 
completely digested than meat. Prof. Konig says, 
that in the amounts in which it is generally eaten, 
125 to 250 grams daily ( i to ^ lb. ), it is as well digest- 
ed as meat or eggs. The extensive use of it abroad 
would seem to be some guarantee for the digestibility 
of the foreign varieties at least. 



Digeatibiliiy of Cheese* 81 

American cheeses have in general a sharper flavor 
than the foreign, still it is probable that well mixed 
with other food, enough could be taken many a tune, 
to giYe a man hk needed daily quantity of animal 
pioteidy — between six and eeven ounces, — and this is 
a matter of great importance from an economical point 
of view. 



uiyitized by Google 



METHODS OF OOOIQITG MEAT. 



Why cook. And first — why do we cook it at all? 
In the animal as well as in the vegetable world some 
foods are all ready for onr digestion, as milk* Baw 
eggs too, are perfectly digestible and are often given 

to iaviilidb. We hear, of Raw meat cures," and 
it has been found that tender and juicy raw meat, if 
cho])|)ed fine to break the connective tissue, is well 
digested. 

But raw meat does not taste good to most of ns, 
while the delicioas flavor and odor of a broiled steak 
make it very acceptable to the palate, and we must 

believe to the stomacli also. We bring out the 
flavor," as we say, by cooking; what else do we do? 
Let us examine for a moment a piece of meat with 
Btnictiinaf reference to the effect heat has upon, it. 

>BM^ The red part is made up of, first, very 

tiny sausage-like bags, or muscle fibres as they are 
called, and in these is contained the precious proteid 
matter, lluvors and salts all mii.cd logethur with 
water into a sort of jelly; second, these muscle fibres 
are bound together by strands of connective tissue, 
as that white stringy mass is called, in which the fat 
and blood vessels are lodged; this is also of food 
value, but inferior to the fibres. Third, dissolved 
in the juices floating between the fibres and strands. 



Exaittitiation of Maat Fibre, 33 

there is also a proteid called soluble albamen. The 
little bags of proteid, when we can get at them, are 
as digestible in our stomachs ius is the white of egg, 
though, like the egg again, their HaTor is improved by 
Blight cooking. Bnt« as we haTe seen, they are 
imprifloned in the oonneotiye tissue, somewhat, we 
may say, as are the starch giaiiis of tiie potato in the 
cellulose. 

softeninffconoeo- ^^^^ conncctiTe tisSQC WO Can soft- 
tive tissue, en by heat, thereby turmiig it into 
a sort of gelatine, but unfortunately, unless the meat 
is very tender, this requires a longer application of 
heat than is needed to cook the delicate albamen all 
foil of fUiToro too easily lost. To soften the connect- 
ive tissue without overcooking the alhumeu, » one 
of the problems of meat cookery. 

The next question i8, how do our liicthodis of cook- 
lug meet these requuremeuts? 

COOKIKO MBAT IK WATBB. 
lot. Method. piece of lean meat into cold 

water, heat it very slowly and watch the effect. The 
water becomes slightly red, then cloudy, and as the 
heat increases, yellowish in color, and finally it clears, 
sending a scum to the surface* If we examine this 
scum, we find that the water has soaked out much 
soluble albumen and a large proportion of the salts 
of the meat as well as oLlier substantives called extrac- 
tives; and now the odor of the boiling meat begins to 
fill the kitchen. The longer and slower the warming 
process, the more of all these things we shall extract, 
and the meat when taken out will be in just that 
proportion poor. 



i^iyuizod by Google 



34 JKr$i Mahod of Ooohing Meai. 



Soapmaktiiff. ^ the prooess known as soap 

making, — very simple, if we care noth- 
ing for the piece of meat but to soak out of it all the 
food and ilavoiB possible. After some hours of cook- 
ing we find it shrunken, gray and tasteless. A dog 
if fed on that alone could not live many day& How- 
ever, as we haye before said, we are not to oonclude, 
that it contains no more nutriment, but the stomach 
rejects it now that it is separated from all the flaToring 
matters. 

2nd Method. Kow put a piece of meat into 

boiling water and continue the boiling. The sur- 
face of the meat suddenly whitens and a little 
scum rises on the water, though Tery little compared 
with what we saw in the former method. We hare 
I coagulated the albumen contained in all the little 
j cells in the surface of tha meat, and the sohible albu- 
' men, flavoring matters and salts cannot get out; the 
( sealing up is not quite perfect, enough escaping into 
• the water to make it a weak soup, but it is a good meth- 
.' od of cooking a large piece if properly completed from 
this point But if we o» boiling our meat, that is, 
keeping the temperature at 313^, we shaU oyercook 
the albumen in the outer layers before that in the 
center is coagulated. By overcook ini(, we mean 
making it homy and flavorless, as we do the white of 
an egg if we cook it in the old-fashioned way, by 
dropping into boiling water and keeping it at that 
heat Haying seared the outside of the meat to keep 
the juices in, we must lower the temperature. The 
albumen coagulat<^'fe at between IV)0^ and 170°, but 

the water in the kettle may be a little above this, as 



L.iyui/cd by Google 



Second Method of Cookuig MeaL 35 



it must constantly transfer heat tt> tlie iiiteriur 
of the meat. The general rule is that it . should 
"bubble" or simmer" only, and if the cook can do 
no better she must follow these indications. That 
the true temperature for oooldiig meat is below the 
boUing point, many an intelligent housekeeper knows, 
but how is she to know when the water is at 170**? 
Here we come Ti[»on the weakest point in household 
cookery ; variouis degrees of heat have different effects 
on the foods we cook, but of only one temperature is 
the housekeeper certain — that of boiling water. 

For the use of the thermometer and the heat sayer 
see pages 43 and 44. 

But to return ; is there no way of cooking that will \ 
keep in the meat all tiiebo ilavors and tiaUti and albu- \ 
mens, just as nature mixed them ? Yes, there are 
three ways, — frying iu fat, baking in an oven, and 
broiling OTer coals. 

We will examine the first. If we 
Frying m £at. pj^^gQ -piece of meat, as a cut- 

let coated with egg and breadcrumbs, into boiling 
fat, the albumen m the surface or rather in that of 
the egg surrounding it is coagulated as in boiling, 
but this time the outer riiul preserves the juices still 
better because the fat will not mix with them as will 
water. Ereryone knows how an oyster cooked in 
this way retains its juices. 

When we bake a piece of meat in the 
oven, we start in the same way; we 
sear the (uH -idc in fat, turning the roast about in a 
small quantity of fat made hot in a i^ottle; we then 
transfer it^ still in the kettle or pan, to a hot oven 



L-iyuizcd by Google 



36 Bahing MM. 

where the process of cookiiig is completed, but at 
short intervals we moisten the surface with the fat in 

the pan. If we did not baste the roast, we would 
find a thick layer of grey, tasteless moat iiksido the 
outer brown crust, and indeed the whole piece would 
dry long before the center of our roast had reached 
the coagahiting point; we baste, in order to keep 
in the juices which, as we know, will not mix with 
the fat, and also that only a mild degree of heat, not 
exceeding the coagulating poiiii of proteids, may be 
transmitted to the interior. In the intervals of our 
basting, some water is driven out of the meat and 
evaporated into steam, and the high heat of the oven 
expends itself in eyaporating this, in heating the 
basting fat, and perhaps (if it reach so high a tem- 
perature) in decomposing part of it, and in changing 
the chemical character of small quantities of extrac- 
tives, tlnis making the meat *Uasty," and so it hap- 
pens that only a mild degree of heat is passed into 
the center of the piece. We would hardly believe 
that the inside of a roast, with its light pink color, 
registers only 160° by the thermometer, yet this can 
be proved by anyone with a long chemisfs thermom* 
eter. 

A.lthough some of the water of our meat has evap- 
orated, the extractives and salts are retained to a 
larger extent than in boiling, as we shall see by the 
table given later. 

In broiling, the principle applied is 
exactly the same as in baking, the 
cooking being done by the medium of hu;iled air. 
The dry heat gf the coals affects th^ outer layer of 




broiling Meat. fi? 

the meat, as does the hot air of the oven. In both 
these methods, just as in boilinsf, we try to hold 
the temperature of our cooking medium just high 
enough to keep the heat tntYeling toward the in- 
terior of the meat. 

We haye now leamed to cook the albumen enough 
and not too mncli and to keep the flaYors of otir meat; 
what about the connective tissue, and how has that 
fared with our different modes of cooking? 

If our meat is cut from the tenderer 

Tender meat. ^ ^ • i * xi. • i-x n 

parts of an animal of the right age, well 
fed and fattened, and if it has been kept loDg enough 
after killing, the connectiye tissne will soften into 

eatable condition in the length of time required to 

cook the alljiimcii by the methods describt'd. Such 
meat, so cooked, will always be tender and full of 
flavor. 

But if the meat is cut from the 

Tough meat. . i. . u •« 

tougher parts, or from an old or lU- 
fattened animal, or cooked too soon after killing, the 
connectiye tissue will not soften in that time ; we 
must continue the application of heat till this tiaaue 
softens. 

Methods com- Therefore, what method of cooking 

tTvuUil^' S ^® depends on the quality of 

meat. the meat we haye. Trimmings and 

tough portions we will make into soup, expecting to 

chop the tasteless meat next day and add other flavors 
to make it palatable. Somewhat better pieces, but 
still requiring long cooking to soften the connective 
tissue, may be made into a stew or ragout ; or if the 
piece is large and compact, boiled in water; but meat 



i^iyuizod by Google 



Methods Compared. 



that is tender and juicy (and for improving tough 
meat see page 45 ) should be boiled, baked or broiled, 
choosing oftenest the last two methods^ because of 
the more perfect retention of the juiees and the fine 
flaTor given to the outer layer* 

We are told that bakinff or broiling 
IB a very wasteful way oi cooking meat ; 
that if we would be truly economical we would always 
boil or stew, using our meat or its juices to flavor 
T^tables. From this we mnst dissent for it would 
condemn us to such a monotony as would be unen- 
durable even to the poor* Better sometimes a 
smaller piece of broiled or baked meat with its deli- 
cious and stimulating flavor, and make our soup of 
vegetables and season it with herbs. Besides, accord- 
ing to the scientists, baking and broiling are 7iot 
wasteful methods, I quote from a table of Prof. 
Kdnig's, wherein are given the results of analysis of 
beef raw, after boiling and after "braten.*^ Baw» it 
contained .86<^ extractives (nitrogenous bodies most- 
ly; very im]>ortant as giving the stimulating smell 
and taste) and 1.^^ salts* 

Extractives Salts 

Raw 86^ 1.23^ 

After boiling .40^ 1A5^ 

After ''braim'' 72)^ L45j^ 

The advantage is seen to be in favor of braten^ 
both iii ri f^ard to extractives and salts. The Ions of 
water was nearly the same in both cases. As for the 
fat lost in broiling a beef steak^ that is indeed a loss, 
but one to be made up in some measure by the smaller 
quantity of fuel necessary to cook the meat The 



Soup Making, 



d9 



loss of this fat need not be made so much of, until we 
have learned to do better in many other still more 
imi)urtant directions. 

The philosophy of cooking meat according to the 
different methodB has been treated^ and we will now 
giTO a few additional directions as to carrying ont 
these methods. 

SOUP MAKING* 

Materials for Soup Lean meat of any sort, beef best; 

makintf. frcsh, better than that long kept; 
bones of next Talue, especially the spongy rib bones 
and vertebrae. Saw and chop the bones into little 
piecesy— cut the meat small. Soft water is better 
than hard. 

Method of Keep a kettle, if possible, for this 

vaOdas, purpose alone, and add to it all l)its of 
meat and bones as they accumulate. Put the meat 
into cold water, let it stand some hours if possible, 
heat very gradoally and keep simmering. Two hours 
or less brings out all the flayors of the meat, but a 
mnch longer time is necessary to get all the nntri* 
ment from the bones. 

Do not remove the scum ; it contains 
the albumen of the soup, and nothing 
objectionable if the meat was well cleaned. 

An hour before the soup is served add iiavors; 
onions and carrots are the best, celery, summer sa- 
vory, and parsley next. Fse others, as doves, nnt- 
meg, bay leaf, etc., only occasionally. Add salt and 
pepper just before serving. 
When done, strain and skim oil all fat (better if 



L.iyui/cd by Google 



46 



BoiUnff Mieai* 



leffc to stand till next day, the fat removed and the 
Bonp simply rewanned)^ and make such additions as 

yon wish. 

[We prefer our soups with the fat removed, but 
the laboring people of Europe with their hardy stom- 
achs find a sonp mnch better if covered with ''eyes."] 

These rules apply to all meat sonps. Mutton 
makes a strong and nutritions soup^ yeal a delicate 
soap. An excellent soup is made from a calf s head. 



BOILING. 

Put the meat into boiling water, bring 
quickly again to a boil and keep so for 
10 minutes, then lower the temperature (as see page 
35), and so keep it till the meat in the center has 
reached 160^-170°, or has changed in color from 
bluish to red» our usual test^ For use of the ^' Cook- 
ing Safe" for this purpose, see page 44. Braising, 
" II la mode"', kettle xuadLs, tic, are but modiiications 
of this method. 

To make niMit This is a combination of sonp mak- 
»*«wB. ing and boiling. Use inferior parts, 

cut in pieces and cook, at 170° if possible, till tender. 
Half an hour before serving, season in any way you 
wish. See page 47* 



FKYtNG IN FAT. 

^IJ^^*^ proipaie Lard if used for this purpose should 

fry in. at. be tried out at home, but beef fat is 

cheaper and if nicely prepared no one can object to 
the taste. 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by VjOOQle 



Frying in MU, 



41 



Cut the fresh suet in pieces, and cover with cold 
water; let it stand a daj, changing the water onoe in 
the time. This takes out the peculiar tallowy taste. 
Now put it in an iron kettle, with a half teacap of 

milk to each pound of suet, and let it cook very 
slowly till the fat is clear, and light brown in color, 
and till the sound of the cookjng has ceased. The 
pieces may be loosened from the bottom with a spoon, 
bat it is not to be stirred; ii it boms the taste is 
mined. Now let it stand and partly cool, then pour 
off into caps to become cold; it smells as sweet as 
butter and can in many cases be used instead of it. 
The fat left still in the pieces may be pressed out for 
less particular uses. 

Any clean fat, even mutton, has its uses in cookery, 
and should be tried out and kept nicely. 
oub tor me In There are oils now sold which bat 
fryiog. for prejudice we woald always nse. 
Pure cotton seed oil is a fine oil with a delicate flavor; 
rape seed oil, which is used extensively abroad for 
this purpose, is also a pure vegetable oil, but some- 
what rank in flavor. It is treated thus: a raw pota- 
to is cut up and put into the kettle, heating with the 
oil and cooking till it is brown, it is then taken out 
and the oil used like lard. The potato has absorbed 
tiic rank flavor. 

Thin pieces of meat, like cutlets and chops, are 
coated with beaten egg and bread crumbs and cooked 
in boiling fat for 5-10 minutes, according to the kind 
of meat. 

Make some beef fat hot in an iron pan 
or broad, kettle. Put the meat into it. 



To bake meat. 



43 



Baking Meat* 



and With a fork stuck into the fai part, turn it rapidly 
till it is on ail sides a fine brown, then put it into a hot 
oven (about 340^ eleTaiiug it above the pan on a 
meat zaok, or a few iron rod& ISow oomes the pro- 
cess oalled bastingpn fire minutes or less 
you inll find that the top of the meat 
has dried, and you must now dip, with a spoon, tho 
hot fat from the pan over the top. Do this every few 
minutes adding no water to the pan; you will find 
your meat well cooked in from 12-15 minutes to the 
pouncL It is done when it has lo8t> in the middle^ 
the hlne color, and beoome a fine red. Only salt and 
pepper should be used to seaaon such a roast, and 
must be added when the meat is half donej if earlier, 
it toughens the fibres. 

But when fuel is expensive, or in 
summer when a not nre is a nuisance, 
the peifectly cooked meat can also be obtained by 
broiling; the management of the fire is the only 
trouble. We are told that a beefsteak for broiling 
should be cut J of an inch thick, and put over a hot 
fire of coal or charcoal; quite right, but when it had 
browned quickly, as it should, and been turned and 
browned on the other side, it yet remains raw in the 
middle and if left longer, the snrfaoe bums. This is 
the experience of the noyice, who has yet to learn 
two things; first, that immediately after the first 
browning, the fire must decrease in heat, or the meat 
be brought further away, so that the steak may cook 
10-12 minutes without burning — less time will not 
cook it nicely in the middle; and second, that like 
baked meat, the surface must be kept moist with hot 



Broiling Meat, 



43 



fat« Before yoar steak is pat OTer (unless it be 

very well streaked with fat), cover both sides with 
melted snet, and afterwards, as it dries, s]>read on 
a little butter or beef fat. Have ready in a hot 
plntter a few spoonsful of water in which the bones 
cat from the steak have been boiling, also salt and 
pepper. When the steak is done, lay it in the platter 
and keep it hot for five minutes, turning it once in 
the tiiiii ; thus jou will have both good steak and 
good gravy. 

Professional cooks always use charcoal 
for broiling, and its advantages are 
great* As described on page it needs only a sim- 
ple contrivance, easily adjasted to any stove; a hand- 
ful will broil a pound of steak, and the cooking of 
the rest of the dinner can go on without interference. 

USE OF THE TH£BMOM£I£B IK COOKLKG HEAT. 

To cook meat at a temperature of between 150^ 
and 160^ F., is no easy matter with theusnal kitchen 

appliances. Even over an easily regulated heater, as 
a gas or coal oil flame, how are we to know that tem- 
perature when it is reached ? The writer, knowing 
of no thermometer arranged for use in a kitchen, cou- 
structed a simple one after the model of those used in 
laboratories.' A thermometer tube registering 300^ 
Celsius was simply fastened into a cork, the bulb 
projecting below and protected by a short cylinder of 
wood. This floated on the water and made it easy 
to cook at any given temperature. This thermome- 
ter was also hung in a light wire frame and used for 
testing the heat of an oven. 



44 



The Heat Saver, 



THE HEAT SAVEK. 

It is a part of common information that the in- 
habitants of northern conntries make eztensiTe nse 

of non-conducting sabstances, like wool, for prevent- 
ing the escape of heat from a vessel in which cooking 
is going on. It is strange that we do not make more 
nse of such appliances, for they have often been de- 
scribed and illustrated; it is probably because they 
are not found ready-made^ and with a complete list 
of directions for use. The writer made and used a 
cooker of this sort, and after considerable modifica- 
tion and experiment it bectmie a very useful thing 
in the kiicheu. If yoii ^vitli to cook meat at the 
proper temperature^ this coutrivance makes it possi- 
ble to do BO, and is also yery saving of fuel. 
Din r ti T s for ^ake a packing box meaanring^ say^ 
( % feet each way and coyer the bottom 
with a layur of packed wool 4 to G inches thick ; set 
^ into the middle of this another box or a cylinder of 
sheet iron and fill the space between the two with 
a layer of wool, 4 to 6 inches thick and closely 
packed. Into the inner compartment put your ket- 
tle of meat or yegetables already brought to the boil- 
ing point and haying a tightly fitting cover, and oyer 
this press a thick pillow or woolen blanket. Then 
fasten down tight over all, the lid of your box. As 
the heat in the water must finish the cooking already 
begun, its amonnt must be rightly proportioned to 
the amount of food to be cooked, e. g.^ two quarts of 
water to 1^ lbs. beef rib, were used. The water was 
brought to the boiling point, the meat placed in it 
and allowed to boil for five minutes, the pot was 




Treatment of Tough Me(U, 45 

then tiglitly covered, placed in the box and allowed 
to remain three hours. At the end of that time the 
meat was tender. 

TO HAKE MBAT TBKDEB. 
rn> mate meat It is well known that meat must be 
kept some Lime alter killing to make it 
tender. In winter, a large piece of beef or mutton 
will keep for six weeks if hung in a drj^ cool place. 
Indeed, this is the time allowed in England for the 
OhristmaB shoulder of mutton/' and eyery few days 
it is rubbed over with salt and vinegar. In summer, 
unless the butcher will keep the meat for you, you 
must resort to other means. 

A tough piece of meat may be laid in not too strong 
yinegar for 3 or 4 days in summer and twice as long in 
winter, adding to the yinegar such spices as you may 
like. To soften a tough steak pour a few spoonfuls 
of Yinegar on and let stand for twelve or twenty-four 
hours. This method lias been long recommended and 
is to some extent used among us; the foreign cook em- 
ploys sour milk for the same purpose and with eyeu 
greater success, but this must be chan^d eyeiy day and 
at the end of the time well washed from the meat. 

We cannot too strongly urge that the housekeeper, 
especial ly if she be straightened in means, should be- 
come usud to these methods and practice them occa- 
sionally. She does not want to confine herself to sou j)s 
and stews and she cannot buy ''porter-house" steak 
at 20 or %b cents a pound, but she can buy ''round" 
at half that price, and after a little experiment can 
make it tender for boiling, roasting or broiling by one 
of thcdu methods. In winter, she should buy a supply 
of meat ahead and keep it until it grows tender. 



BEOrPES FOR COOKmG MEATS. 



The methods of cooking meat liaviQg been treated 
and mention made of the parts adapted to each, 
it lemains only to give practical hints as to making 
and Tarying dishes. 

BEEF. 

Boiled, roast and broiled beef have been sufficient- 
ly dwelt upon. See pages 40-43. 

stews and Ra- mode of cooking meat has so 

goutA, many vanations; the flavor of the 
meat being used to season yegetables of eyerj sort, 
also doughs, as in dumplings, or in the crust of meat 
pie. For making meat stews see page 40. 

One-half hour before the meat is 
With potatoes. ^^^^^^ lay on top of it peeled potatoes, 

all of the same size, and serve when done with the 
meat and gravy. 

When the meat is cooked tender, 

Mfiat pie. 

thicken the gra^y and pour all into a 
pie or pudding dish. Cover with a common pie crust 

or one of masheS potatoes, and bake i hour. 

You may also mix sliced raw potatoes with thestew, 
in layers. 

Potato Crust. 1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 cup of milk, salt. Beat to- 

46 




L-'iyuizuu by GoOglc 



getber till smooth, and then work in enough flour bo 
that you can roll it out. It should be ^ in. ilxiakt 
aad as soft as yoa can handle. 

Add to meat whea tender, 1 qt. to- 
wi tomatoeB. ^jj^^j^j^g ^ ^ meat Thldkon with 

liour and slow b minutes. 

Stews are vanuuBiy flavored; onion, 
BlETOn for stows. i. i • i 

salt and pepper, are always m place. 
A little lemon jaioe added as it is serred giyes a deli- 
cions flayor, or even a tablespoon of vinegar may be 
used* Any herbs, a piece of carrot, a dove or bit of 
garlic, may be nsed for yariety. Catsup is also good 
as a flavor. 

CJorneciBeef. Wash it well, put into plenty of cold 
water and bring slowly to the simmering point 
Cook 3 to 4 houra. 

Turnips or cabbage are often eaten with com 
beef. They should not be boiled with the meat but 
in a separate pot. 

If from a good animal, beef liver is 
often as tender as calf's liver. 
This is the best method. Soak an 

Broiled. i. • u a • j i» :i 

hour m cold water, wipe dry, sbce and 
dip in melted beef fat. Broil shwly (see page 4St) till 
thoroughly done; then salt and butter. 

When prepared as above, tlic slices of 
liver may be fried in a pan with a little 
beef fat. This gives an opportunity for more flavors, 
as onion may be fried with it, a little vinegar added to 
the juices that fry out, then thickened and used as 
grayy. 

If liyer is not quite tender it can be 
made into a stew, or it may be chopped 



L^iyuized by Google 



48 Eecooking Beef* 

tne, uuxtd with bread crumbfi and egg and baked \ 
boor. 

If fire is na object, yon may boil a 
^ beefs heart, it will take all day. Pat 

into Gold water and bring slowly to the simmering 

point and keep it there. Next day it may be stuffed 
with well seasoned bread crumbs and baked | lionr. 

Cut in strips, soak in salt and vine- 
gar ^ day, wipe dry and fiy in hot lard, 
It may also be stewed* 

BEGOOKDirG BBEV. 

(A.) Boiled, baked or broiled beef which is ten- 
der and full of flavor. 

To serve roast beef a second time. 
Boast beef le- Hoat the gravy, put the roast in it, 
wmA. After trimming it into shape again, 
coyer closely and put into a hot oyen for ten minutes 
or less according to size of piece. 

Or, cut in slices and lay in hot gravy only long 
enough to heat them through. 

Being full of flavor such meat may 
be chopped and mixed vrith from i to i 
as much chopped or mashed potatoes, bread crumbs 
or boiled rice. These mixtures may be warmed as 
haaii, or made into cakes or balls to be fried on a grid- 
die or in boiling fat. 

Mix the chopped meat with the })otatoes, bread- 
crumbs or rice as above, add salt and pepper and 
make quite moist with water or soup. Put a good 
piece of butter or of beef fat into a spider, and when 
it iti liut, put in the hash. Cover and let it steam. 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by VjOOQle 



liecooJcing Soup Meai, 49 

then reuiove cover and lot it dry out while a brown 
crust forms on the bottom. Or, stir till hot and 
dish immediately. 

Make not qaite as moist as for hash, 
a» baiis. ji^^j^ cakeSy dust vith flour, 

and fry to a nice brown in a little beef drippin^^ on a 
griddle. Or, egg and bruad crumb Liie baiis, and fry 
in boiling fat. 

(B.) RSCOOKIKa SOUP MBAT. 

This meat, though made tender by long cooking, 
has given much of its iiavor to the soup. It has 
not, to the same degree, however, lost its nutritive 
Talue; if we can make it iaaie good again, both palate 
and stomach will approye it. 

It will not do to mix this meat with nentral sub- 
stances like potatoes and bread; it needs addition 
rather than subtraction. 

In any case, first chop the meat very fine, 
rfcmofl BOTip Season the chopped beef well with 
salt and pepper, and some other addi- 
tion, as celery salt or nutmeg, or some of the sweet 
herbs. Moisten with soup or stock, pack in a square, 
deep tin and place in the oyen for a short time. To 
be sliced cold, or warmed as a meat hasli to be served 
on toast. 

MeatOroquettes. When so good a dish as this can be 
made out of soup meat, it is worth a 

little trouble. 

Ingredients. 2 cups of the chopped beef, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, I egg, i a lemon or 
1 tablespoon yii^gar^ a^few grattnga of. ^iitinegtand 
icupof stock ormillk*'* : r ' 



L-iyitized by Google 



Cook the floar in the batter and add the stock or 
milk and aeasoning, then the beef» and cook^ stirring 
all the time till the mass cleaves from the side of the 

kettle. Let it get cold, then make into little egg 
ehaiied balls, let them dry a little, roll in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

To vaiy— add f as mnoh chopped salt or fresh pork 
as yon have meat 

TBAL, 

This meat takes other flavors well and is used by 
cooks fur all mauuer of fancy dishes. It is lacking 
in fat and for that reason easily dries in cooking; an 
addition of pork is always an advantage to the taste. 
It must be always well cooked, never rare. 

This may he a piece cat from loin, 
breast or shonlder, or a rib piece. 
Boast like beef (see page 35), allowing twice as long, 
or l^Ji hours, for any piece under 4 lbs. 
Bron^Mi v«al Cutlets, chops and steaks are broiled 
chopa. like beef, but slower and twice as long 
and must be battered and flonred to prevent drying. 
Shoald he served with a tomato or onion sauce. 

Cook like beef stew, see page 46. 

VmI Stow ' o 

It may be varied in the same way, 
and is generally more highly seasoned. Espeuiaily 
good as pot-pie. Salt pork should be added to it. 
Liver, Sweet- Veal liver, swee threads and heart are 
Heart. ^ ail tender and excellent, but high priced, 
especially the sweetbreads. Liver and heart are pre* 
pacbd like the same jwts in bftef.{8ee page 47), bat the 
liearl. 'xkiIu iencW in twp^^igu • & .This latter is an ex- 



Mutton and Lamb, 5J 

cellent dish, do not soak it — stuff with well seasoned 
bread crumbs and hake, basting well. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Mutton and ^^'^ quality of mutton is so yaT3ring 
Iamb. that when cooked the dish is often a dis- 
appointment. The influence of long keeping or 
hanging" upon it is even more beneficial than upon 
beef. 

Fat of MuUo7i. Some cooks trim 

away every bit of fat from mutton. It 

is perfectly wholesome^ but sometimes gets a taste 

from coming in contact with the hide or hair of the 

animal; hence the prejudice. Scrape the outside of 

the meat well, pulling off the dried skin and cutting 

away the dark ends. 

Unlike beef, other pieces besides the 
Pieces to voMt , - i.- ai i • j 

rib are good for roasting; tlio loin and 

haunch are most economical, the shoulder next, the 
leg next. Boast like beef^ see page 35. 

Unless the meat is first class^ do not roast, but boil 
it The leg is oftenest used for this purpose. 

Simmer about 12 minutes to the 
To boll mutton. j xi i. • j.i i x. l r 

pound ; that is the rule, but very fre- 
quently the meat when it comes on the table, will 
be tough, owing entirely to the difference in the qual- 
ity of the meat Such meat must be boiled twice as 
long, or is better cooked in a stew. 

The chop is oftenest broiled and is 
Mutton oliops. ^ faniuuB diisii. Cut f in. thick, and 

broil rare like beef. 

Chops and cutlets are excellent fried in fat. See 
page 40, 



Digitized by Google 



62 



Pork 



Huttoniteir. Th\a is the most economical and per- 
haps the most satisfactory of all mutton dishes. The 
inferior parts, as the neck, are as good as any for this 
purpose. Proceed exactly as with beef stew. 
A good Btew is made from sheep's kidnejB. 

These may be mentioned because 

Sheep toiig:uoe. 

sometimes thrown away or sold very 

cheap. Clean well, and simmer 1^ hours, with a 
little pork and onion. Add to the gravy 1 table- 
spoon of vinegar. 

All these recipes for mntton apply to the cooking 
of lamb ; remembering howeTor, that lamb, like veal, 
mnst be thoroughly cooked. 

PORK. 

Pork does not need to be kept in order to be ten- 
der, that is one of its great recommendations to the 

housekeeper. It is also easily cooked and we may 
lay aside some of the precautions we use regarding 
beef: The lean of fresh pork however, is apt to dry 
in cooking. 

The leg, the loin and the chine are 

Rossting pieo6B. « .* • n •! 

good roastmg pieces as well as the rib. 
Pork is so rich in flayor that it seasons finely a bread 
crumb dressing, to which add a little sage and vin- 
egar or chopped pickles. Bake separately, and lay 

around it when served. Or better, though more 
trouble, make holes in the roast and force the stuff- 
ing in. 

Put directly into a hot OTen in a pan containing 
some hot fat, and baste very frequently till done. 
Allow at least 20 minutes to the pound. 



53 



and ohopB.^ SteakB and chops are broiled^ but the 
surface must be kept well moistened with batter or 
beef fat, or they will be dry and tasteless. 

Fresh pork is seldom boiled and it is 
Btewof pork. ^ stew, tliough the lean may 

be selected and cooked like beef stew. It makes also 
an excellent potpie, or meat pie. See page 46. 

Pig's liver is good cooked like beef's 
Pig 8 LiTO. liyer, and is cheaper. See page 47. 

The cooking of this is very simple, 
pork BaiiflBge. -^^^ brown in a frying pan on the 

stove^ or belter, set the pan in a hot oven, you will 
then avoid the spattering of the fat. 

HAH, SALT FO&K AND BACOH. 

Ham may be cooked in any way in which fresh 
pork is cooked. It may be cut in i in. slices, or 
thinner, and broiled or fried lightly in a pan. If 
long cooked it becomes tongh and dry. If too salt 
for this, it may be soaked a half hour in warm 
water. 

A large piece of ham is best boiled. If very salt, 

soak it in cold water for 24 hours, then put into 
cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and simmer lialf 
a day if the ham is of good size. A ham may also be 
baked. 

Dtthesfromooiii ^ highly flavored a meat oan be 
used in numberless ways, especially 
combined with vegetables and bread. 

Chop 4 lb. fine, season wUli mus- 
tard, pepper and 1 l;iliU s]joon vinegar. 
Spread between slices of battered bread. 



i^iyuizcd by Google 



64 



Salt Pork and Bacon, 



Ham cakes. Take 1 cup finely chopped boiled 
ham, 2 cnps of brcadcriunbs, 2 cirgs, pepper and Bult, 
and enough milk to make quite muist. 

To ttae* 1st Fry on a griddle in small spoonfuls, 
and tnm as pancakes* 

2d. Use mashed potatoes instead of breadcrumbs^ 
and fry as above. 

3d. Take eitlier of the above mix- 
Croquettes. tures, using, liuwever, little or no milk, 
make into little balls and after rolling lu egg and bread- 
crumbs, fry in boiling fat. 

4th. With eggs. Put either of these 
witheggs. mixtures into a bakingdish; smooth the 
surface and make little hollows in it with the bowl of 
a spoon. Put in the oven till hot, llu n l)rcak an egg 
into each depression, and return to the oven till the 
eggs are set. 

BroUed Salt Pork After slicing thin, freshen salt pork 
and Baflon by laying in cold water oyer night or ^ 
hour in warm water. Broil tUl transparent and a 
del icate brown in color. Broil bacon without freshen- 
ing. 

Less delicate than broiled, but much 
more economical, because saving the 
fat. Pry only till transparent. Salt pork must be 
first freshened. To make milk gravy of the fat, see 
''meat and yegetable sauces," page 73. 

Both salt pork and bacon are boiled with vegeta^ 
blcs. 

lUinni or Pork and Cabbage. This is a favorite 
mixture, and if the cabbage is only boiled half an 
hour and not in the same pot with the pork, it is not 



i^iyuizuu by GoOglc 



Fresh Fish, 



55 



an indigeeiible dUh. Pat the pork into cold water, 
bring slowly to a boil and simmer from to 2 hoars, 

according to size of piece. 

Cook 1 nt. dried peas accordine: to 

directions for pea soup, page 1 17. Boil 
pork with the peas daring the hist hoar> or after 
parboiling, bake like pork and beans. 

Cook 1 qt. beans according to soap 

recipe, page 117. Parboil 1 lb. salt side 
pork, score the skin in squares, lialf bury in the beans 
and bake 2 hours, or till a nice brown. 
Pork and Vat^ ^^^^^ ^ dozen potatoes thin, also i lb. 

iat salt pork, pat into a pudding dish 

in alternate layers, seasoning with salt and pepper 

(only a little of the former). Bake, ooTeied, i hour, 

uiicover and brown. 

Fruits seasoned with meat juices and 
Pork and Apples. -iv . 

fats, instead of with sugar, are not 
enough known among as. 

Shoe soar apples roand in slioee ^ in. thick with- 
oat peeling, and fry with strips of pork or bacon. 
Serre together. 

FBB8H PISH. 

The varieties of fresh fish are numberless, and to 
cook and serve them in perfection reqnires careful 
study from the cook. The subject must here be 
treated very briefly. 

Fresh fish may be cooked in any of the ways appli- 
cable to mont ; the length of time being much shorter, 
and care being required on account of the delicacy of 
the fibre. This makes broiling somewhat difficult. 



56 



SaU Fish, 



rp 

Ffah Cbowder. 



Small fish are perhaps best egged and bread crumbed 
and fried iu hot fat. 

Phis disli dedervea especial mention 
because of its cheapness and good ^ 
Yor. It may be made of any fresh fish. 

Fill a pudding dish with the fish cut in pieces, 
seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and bits 
of suet or fat pork ; put over it a potato crust as for 
meat pie ( see page 46 ), or a soda biscuit crust, and 
bake. Bread crumbs or sliced potatoes may be mixed 
with the fish, and more seasoning used. 

Fresh fish can also be made into 
Fish ^upti. goupg^ cheaper kinds should be 

more used for this purpose. 

Cook 1 tablespoon of flour in 1 table- 
spoon of butter. Add 1^ qts. milk, or 
milk and water, and when it boils stir in 1 teacup of 
cold boiled codfish that has been freed from skin and 
bones and then chopped fine or rubbed through a 
sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Buubead or cbi^ excellent soup can be made of 

llBhBouiK this cheap fish. 

Clean and cut up 2 or 3 lbs. and boil an hour in 2 
qts. water with an onion and a piece of celery or any 
herbs (it must be well seasoned). Then add 1 cup 
of milk and a piece of butter or beef fat> or a piece 
of salt pork cut in bits may be boOed with the fish. 

SALT FI8H. 

This is one of the cheap foods that 
seems to be thoroughly appreciated among us^ and 
good ways of cooking it are generally understood. 



67 



It must be freshened by laying it in water over 

night ; put into cold water and bring ^^adually to a 
hull; set the kettle hack wliure it will keep hot for 
half an hour, separate the Hakes aud serve with a 
milk sauce. 

This favorite dish is prepared by 
adding to codfish^ boiled as above and 
finely shredded, a like quantity of mashed potato. 
Make into balls and fry on a griddle or in boiling fat. 
Any other fish can be used in the same way. 

70WL8. 

The flesh of fowls cannot rank among cheap foods, 
but in any economical family the Sunday dinner may 
often he a fricassee made of a fowl no longer young. 
Unless very ancient, the ilavor of sueli a fowl will l)e 
richer than that of a chicken ; we have but to cook 
it till it is tender. 

o]dF6wiiuo> into joints, put into cold water 

«»eed mid bring slowly to a simmering heat ; 

on no account let it boil, — keep it as nearly as pos- 
sible at 170° for 3 or 4 hoiirs, or till it is very tender. 
At the end of 2 hours, add a sliced onion and salt 
and thicken the gravy. 

None but the wealthy should use 

Chicken Soup. - 

chickens for sonp, but from the bones 
left of baked or fricasseed chicken a good and eco- 
nomical soup can he made. Boil an hour or two, 
take out the bones, thicken a little and serve with 
bread dice fried in batter. 

An excellent soup can be made of the 
ib et Soup. g^i^^ that is, hearty liver and neck of 
ohioken, and other f owls, which in city markets are 



68 Eggs. 

sold separately and very cheap. Cut in small pieces 
and boil ^ hours with onion and herbs, then add a 
little batter and thickening, salt and pepper. 

EGGS. 

The importance of eggs is to be estimated from 
various points of view; tlieir food value is great, 
their digestibility when iresh is almost perfect, and 
they can be cooked in so many ways and are a neces- 
sary ingredient of so many dishes, that the cook could 
ill spare them. Indeed, in all countries, their con- 
sumption boems to be limited only by their price. 

After the lirst twenty-four hours an 
egg steadily deteriorates. Physicians 
say, ''nerer give to an inyalid an egg that is more 
than two or three days old.'' 

There are methods in use for preserving eggs fresh, 
on the principle of excluding air by sealing up the 
pores of the shell, but none of them are without risk 
and they cannot be recommended to one who must 
economize closely. It is better to go without eggs as 
nearly as possible in winter. 

Eggs are as digestible raw as cooked, 
and one easily comes to like the taste of 
a fresh raw egg beaten to a foam and mixed with a 
little milk ur water and sugar flavored with a little 
nutmeg or jelly. 

To soft boil an egg its temperature 

soft Boiled E^irs. ^j^^^j^ ^ ^y^^^^ 1 Y^o, r^^^ 

white will then be a jelly-like, digestible substance, 
but if exposed to a higher temperature, the white 

becomes horny while the yolk remains uncooked or 



Egg Dislm. 59 



becomes pasty. There are two methods of boiling an 

properly, which ma-y be adopted according to 
convenience. 

lst» Allow 1 qt. of boiling water to 4 eggs. Use a 
pail OP jar (heated before the water is put in) and 
wrap around with a flannel doth. The eggs will be 
done in 6 minutes^ but are not harmed by ten« 

2d. Put the eggs into cold water and bring slowly 
to a, boil. They are done when the water begins to 
boiL 

To boil an ei^ir hard, it is no more 
Hard BolledBgge. , vl x i v a 

necessary to expose it to a iugh degree 

of heat than in the case of the soft boiled ; the heat 

must simply be much longer continued, 20 minutes 

to a half hour. The egg will then be solid hut not 

homy as when cooked in boiling water. 

A great many attractive dishes can be made of cold 
boiled eggs, 

Scmmbied, These are but difierent modes of cook- 

poached^ omelet, . IJ mu i J. -11 

and baked eggs, ®gg8 Boft or solid. The tasto will 
be more delicate and they will be more digestible If 
in these cases also only the low degree of heat above 

mentioned be applied — more time being given them 
than is usually allowed. 

EOO DISHES. 

These dishes under many names and in many forms 
are of next importance after meats, composed, as they 
generally are, of eggs and yegetables or some prepara- 
tion of the grains, while numberless additions and fla- 
vors are used to give variety and make the dish tempt- 
ing to the eye and palate. Eggs so prepared have their 
full nutritive valuer not so in rich puddings and cakes, 



60 Egg Dishes, 

where f hej are mixed with more sugar and fat than 
the system oaa take up in any quantity. 
The following are a few recipes that have not heen 

incliKkd umler other heads. Many others will be 
found under the Cooking of the Grains. 

1 cup of hard bread partly softened in 
hot water and milk, or in cold water 
(in which case press in a doth and crumble), add i of a 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 egg, 
salt and pepper. Heat in the frying pan or square 
bilking pan, sumu biLs ol buuL or beef fat, and pour 
in the omelet. Cover and bake live minutes, then 
uncover and brown. Or it may be cooked slowly on 
top of the stove. Out in pieces and serve around the 
meat or with a gravy. 

Bread, fresh or stale, is cut in long 

lagged lireaid. _x • • ji -1.1- 

stnps, or m squares or rounds with a 

cake cutter. Let them soak till sofi but nut broken, 

in 1 pt. of salted milk into which twoee^f^s liave been 

beaten. Bake a nice brown or fry on a griddle in 

half suet and half butter. (May be made with one 

Fry a small onion, shced, in a tea- 
Potato omelet, ^pj^j^f^j butter or fat; fill the pan 

with 2 cups of cold sliced potatoes, salt and pepper 

them, and pour ov ur them 2 beaten e^gs. Bake slowly 
till it is just solid and turn out carefully on a ])lat- 
ter. Or, 1 cup potatoes and 1 cup bread crumbs 
may be used. 

1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 teaspoons 

Uice omelet, mi •« « x i^ ^ 

milk, 1 egg, i teaspoon salt Mix and 
pour into a pan in which a tablespoon of butter has 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by VjOOQle 



Cheese Dishes* 



61 



been heated. Fry and double over when done. Or, 
it may be baked like potato omelet. 

1 egg, 1 cnp milk, 2 tablespoons floor, 

Flour omelet, ^.^^j^ ^ ^j^.^ 

the egg last. 

This is the "Yorkshire Pudding" which is cooked 
in the pan over which beef is roasting; it is cut in 
squares and served around the meat. It may also be 
baked in a buttered pan without meat. 

3 eggs, 1 cap flour (scant), I table- 
Tomato omelet, gpoon fine herbs, salt and cayenne pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon sugar, jnice of % large tomatoes and 
1 cup wLirni milk. Bake under roasting meat, or alone 
in a buttered pan. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Almost any cheese will give a good result in these 
dishes. Crumbly cream cheese is richer in taste and 
has also been shown to be more quickly digested. 

Skim cheeses are as nutritious except in fat, and in 
some dishes, as in **Fondamin" give a better result. 
Grate old cheeses, eliop new and soft ones. 

Grate old cheese and serve with bread 
and butter. It is also a good addition to 
mashed potato, to flour porridges, to oatmeal and 
and wheat flour porridges, to rice, sago, tapioca and 
indeed to any starchy foods; it should be stirred 
in while these are quite hot. Its use with macaroni 
is given elsewhere. 

Gookod cbeeBo ^he hasis of these dishes is toasted 
with bnad. bread (white or graham) arranged on a 
platter^ and enough salted water poured on to soften it. 



Cheese Dishes* 



1. Grate enough old cheese to cover the toast pre- 
pared as aboYC. Sot in the oven to melt, and put 
the slices together as sandwiches. This is the simplest 
form of Welsh Barebit.' 

2. i lb. cheese, 1 tablespoon batter and 1 cnp milk. 
Stir till smooth oyer a gentle fire or in a water bath 
and spread over the toast. 

3. i lb. clioese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 egg yolks, 
■J- teaspoon mustard, a pincli of cayenne pepper. Stir 
to smooth paste, spread on the toast and set in a hot 
oven for 4 minutes, 

4. To each person allow 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 
grated cheese, i teaspoon bntter or 1 tablespoon milk, 
a little salt and pepper (cayenne best). Cook like cus- 
tard ill a pail set in a kettle of hot water, stirring 
till smooth, it may then be used on toast or poured 
out on a platter. It may also be steamed 5 minutes 
in little caps, or baked very slowly for 10 minutes. 

5. Slices of bread lightly buttered, 3 eggs, 1| cups 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated cheese. Soak the 
bread in the milk and egg till soft bnt not broken. 
Lay tlie })iece8 in a pan, cover with the cheese and 
bake or steam. 

Fondaminor ^bis is a famous foreign dish, and 
Fondue. although it may seem to have a good 
many ingredients, it is really not much trouble to 
make. 

i lb. of grated cheese (skim better than cream) add 
to 1 gill of milk, in which is as much bicarbonate of 
potash as willlie on a three cent piece, ^ teaspoon 
mustard, i saltspoon white pepper, a few grains of cay- 
enne, 1 oz. butter, a grating of nutmeg and 2 table- 





Milk 63 

spoons baked flour. Ilcut carefully till the cheese is 
dissolved. Add 3 lieateu eggs and stir till smooth. 
This mixture should be baked separately for each per- 
son in patty pans or paper cases and eaten imme- 
diately. All cheese dishes should be served yery hot 



Milk is sometimes called the one perfect food, con- 
taining iili the constituents in their right proportions. 
This is true only for the requirements of a baby, but 
it remains for any age a Talnable food when rightly 
supplemented. 

Milk contains on the ayerage 8.31^ proteids, 3.66^ 
fat, 4.9^ carbohydrates, 87.41^ water, and .70^ salts. 

The housewife, if she wishes to use milk with 
economy, will not in cooking use it as such, but 
with due regard to the different values of the cream 
and the skim ports. In cities skim milk is sold for 
about one-half the price of full nulk, and is well 
worth it if pure, but it is too often mixed with water. 

As soon as milk comes into the house 
it should !)c boiled, as it is a notorious 
carrier of disease germs which only iu this way can 
be killed. Use an earthenware pit-cher and let the 
milk remain standing in the same after cooking. 
The next day remoye the cream for the morning's 
coffee, and use the skim part during the day for cook- 
ing, with or Without tlic addition of a little butter. 

_ „ To keep milk sweet in warm weather 

Keepinpr M^iHf ^ ^ 

IS a senous question to the housekeeper 

who has no cellar or refrigerator. It is of first im- 
portance that the yessels used to contain it should be 



64 Milk. 

scrupnlonsly clean. Boilin<^, as above Tnentioned, 
and cooli ug it ra])idly afterwards, will keep it sweet 
for 24 hours, unless the weather is very warm, and 
the time may be farther extended by keeping the 
milk pitcher set in a diah of cold water, A quarter 
of a teaspoonful of baking soda to a quart of milk, 
added while it is still sweet, may be used in case of 
necessity but this is not to be commended for com- 
mon use. 

_ A method that the writer has em- 

ployed IS this: simply canning the 
milk as one would can fruit. Fill glass jars and screw 
down the lids, then place them in a steamer oyer cold 
water ; heat the water gradually and steam the jars 
for an honr, then tighten the tops. I liave never 
icept milk so treated for more than a week, but see 
no reason why it should not keep much longer. 

However, if you find yourself with 

Sour Milk. -L J J X 

sour milk on your hands, do not throw 
it away, it has many uses. Bnttermilk is also very 
yaloable to the housewife ; it can be kept a long time 

in good condition for mixing donglis by covering 
with water, which must, however, be often changed 
for fresh. 

USES VOB flOUB MILS AJTB BITrTEBVIIX. 
B00117 COaMier. p^t skim milk into a glass disli or 
into tea cups and set away nntil it bocoiues solid. 
Then eat with sugar and powdered cinnamon sprink- 
led oyer it. 

Set thick sour milk whore it will 
Cottage Cheese, jj^at graduaUy till the ourd Separates, 

then poor into a bag and let it drip till dry. Salt 
weU, and add a little cream or milk and melted bntter. 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by VjOOQle 



8our Milk and Buttermilk. 



65 



1st. a dnnk. For this it should 
be Yory iresh. 
2d, Buttermilk soup. (Seepage 123.) 

Both buttermilk and sour milk can 

Useelor botli. , . 

be used 

Ist. In making soda biscuit dough (see page 102.) 

2d. In pancakes of all kinds (see page 103.) 

3d. In corn bread (see page 103.) 

4th. In some kinds of cake, as in gingerbread, 
oookies and doughnutSy where they are by many cooks 
preferred to sweet milk; and in almost any kind of cake 
sour milk may be substituted for sweet, remembering 
always to use only half the quantity of cream of tartar 
called for in the recipe. 
6 



L.iyui/cd by Google 



I 



FATS AND OILS. 



The third food principle, Fats, stands between the 
two great nntrientfi, Proteids on the one hand and 
Carbohydrates on the other, and we find that we can 
indulge in considerable latitude as to its use. When 

we wish to get our food in a more condensed form, 
we can use fats freely in connection with proteids 
and lessen the amount of carbohydrates. In army 
dietaries the amonnt of fat is largely increased for 
marching, and for great exertion the quantity be- 
comes three times that allowed in garrison life. For 
instance, the daily rations served out to the (German 
soldiers in France during tiie muntk oL August, 1870, 
contained 

_ _ Proteids Fats Carbohydrates 

AmiyDtetarr. 157 gms. 285 gms. 331 gms. 

It was represented by 1 lb. 10 oz. of bread, about 
1^ lbs. of meat, and oTer i lb. of bacon besides an 
aUowanoe of coffee, tobacco and wine or beer. Prof. 

Ranke luis called this au admiral ilu (lict for fighting 
men. In garrison life these soldiers would have re- 
ceived only 56 grams of fat, and 120 grams of pro- 
teids while the carbohydrates would haTe been in- 
creased to 500 grams or more. 

On the other hand, fat when coupled with enough 
carbohydrate food can replace some of the proteid, 
and often does so in the food of hardy and econom- 



Importance of Fats. 



67 



Dietof RRvnrian ic^l peoplo. The Bavarian woodcliop- 
woodchopiHjr. per is enabled by his splendid digestion 
to arrange his diet in the following way : he takes 
little proteid from the animal kingdom, but in order 
to get enough of it from TOgetable prodactg, lie mnet, 
as we know, take in an immense quantity of the 
starch associated with it, and to this he adds a great 
quantity of fat. Von Liebig says that suck a man 
takes on the average 

Proteids Pats Carbohydrates 

112 gms. 309 gms. 691 gms. 

We see therefore that we can have a sliding scale 
for fat; that while we should not go below % oz. a day, 

we may, in case we lower one or both of the other 
two great constituents, go nji to 8 or 9 oz. 
Importance of People belonging to the well-to-do 
f^t not realized, classes, uuless they have given special 
stady to the subject^ seldom realize the importance 
of fat in our economy. Fat means to them fat meat, 
suet, lard and the like, and the much eating of these 
is considered proof of a gross aj)petite; ( lioy do not 
consider how much fat they take in eggs, in milk, in 
grains like oatmeal and maize, in the sea^iouiug of 
their varied dishes, and in their well-fattened meats, 
where, as in an average piece from a very fat mutton, 
they eat twice as much fat as proteid without knowing 
it. 

Indeed, a well fed in, in of the upper classes may 
have more fat in his daily diet than has the freshly 
arrived Mechlenburg laborer who spreads a quarter 
inch layer of lard on his bread. The lattdr cannot 
take his fat in unsuspected forms; he craves this 



L-iyuized by Google 



68 



ISubslUuies for Butter* 



principle with his piuiu vegetable diet, and must take 
it 2^ he can get it. 

Now let us understand that where economy is to be 
considered, this qaestion of fat does not take care of 
itself as it does for the rich man. The economical 
housewife should always keep in mind that she must 
furnish her family enough fat, and furnish it cheaply. 
Substitutes for Butter is a dear fat; cuunt out tlie 
Butter. water in it and see what it costs you. 
We must economize in butter in as many ways as 
possible. We mast eat more fat meat, first, that 
which is ingrained with the lean where it takes the 
place of water, as we haye seen under ^'Proteids," 
costing us piaclically nothing; when we eat our 
vegetables seasoned with such a piece of meat, we 
find them sulliciently seasoned* We must also eat 
more of fat meat which we recognize as such, taking 
pains to cook it so that it wiU be palatable; the 
crisp, brown outside of a roast is always welcome, but 
the fat of boiled beef or mutton will also be relished 
if served very hot. An cxt i [lent sek^ction in luw- 
priced beef, is the fat middle rib; the lean part is 
very tender and juicy when cooked in water at a low 
temperature for two or three hours ( or in Heat Saver, 
see page 44, for three or four hours) and the fat, if 
served hot, any but a pampered taste will relish. 
Too much cannot be said in praise of pork as furnish- 
ing a goud tasting and cheap fat ; it can be cooked in 
many ways and used to ilavor vegetables, etc. 
Dlg€8tibRit7or It is consoling to the economist to 
know that little of this food prin- 
ciple will be wasted in the body. Fat is more com- 



i^iyui/cd by Google 



Artificial ButUr. o9 



pletely absorbed, according to the testimony of the 
experimenters^ than any other kind of food, even 
meat. 

We want to say a few words as to the character of 
different animal fats, and then we are done with this 

subject. 

All the fats consumed by us, without exception, are 
composed of three bodies called neutral fats, mixed 
together in varying proportions* These three bodies 
are ^'olein/' '^palmatin^' (margarin )y and '^stearin/' 
and the chief difference between them is that they 
melt at different temperatures; the more olein a 
fat bad, the more easily it melts, and the- less it has, 
the more it is like tiillow. In vegetable oils, we find 
in addition to these, small quantities of what are 
called ''fatty acids," and in batter we have beside the 
three common fats, a small per cent of four scarcer 
ones. 

Practically therefore, all fats are 
Fatsoompared. ^^uj^^g^ when absorbed they do 

the same woi k in the body, their varying flavors 
and their colors having nothing to do with this. 

However, their flavor, their appearance and the 
ease with which they melt in the mouth and in the 
digestive tract have much to do with our estimation 
of them as foods. Mutton fat will do our body the 
same service as butter, but because of the relatively 
small amount of olein it contains, we have di&culty 
in swallowing it. 

As to the comparative digestibility of these fats, it 
is generally admitted that those which melt at a low 
tempexatoie, like hutter and vegetahle oils, are most 



L.iyui/cd by Google 



70 



Artificial Butter. 



readily taken up by the system; it is thought that 
we could digest beeswax if it would melt in the 
stomach. Still, although butter stands in common 
estimation as the most digestible, as it is the most 
palatable of the fats, the stomach finds no trouble in 
disposing of reasonable amounts of any M used in 
the household. 

Tlic fact, that all fats are so similar 

ATffll^y iM Butter. . -I , 1 1 • n 

m composition, and that, if once di- 
gested, they will do the same service in the body, 
first led scientists to try to make out of the cheaper 
fats a substitute for butter. It was Kapoleon III 
who set the chemist M^ge-Aionrier at work to dis- 
cover an artificial butter for use in the army. This 
chemist added butter color and Ihivors ni ule in the 
laboratory, to olein and margarin extracted from beef 
suet, and mixed with this a little real butter, and so 
succefisfnl was the result, that the making of artifi- 
cial butter has become a great industry. Now cer- 
tainly no one objects to artificial butter on the ground 
that it is made of uiiiiiial futs, fur he eats these every 
day on his table : he objects because he has doubts as 
to the clcanimetis or the healthfuluess of its method 
of manufacture. 

Therefore since the substitution, to some extent, 
of animsl fats for butter is from an economic stand- 
point so desirable, if we cannot bring ourselyes to 
use oleomar^^arine we must do the best we can lu 
those kiiehen hiboratories of ours to make other fats 
than butter acceptable to the taste. 



* 



L.iyui/cd by Google 



U868 of Fata* 



n 



USES on f ATS. 

Beef Suet Its Beef snet has many uses. Itshotildbe 

bought perfectly fresh, that surround- 
ing the kidneys being chosen as of tlie best quality. 
Chopped fine, it is used in suet puddings, and may 
be employed to enrich other puddings made of skim 
milk^ as a rice padding; it combines well with 
bread crumbs in any hot dish, in bread puddings, 
bread stuffing, bread omelet and soup balls. In all 
cases it must be chopped fine and cooked sufficiently 
to fully incorporate it with the other materials. 
Suet may also be used in many flour dishes instead 
of batter, if they are only cooked long enough and 
eaten warm, also in all cake where molasses and 
spices or any strong flavor is used* 

ETery bit of marrow in bones should 

be scraped out and carefully used. Its 
taste is more delicate than tliat of suet, and it can be 
substitated for butter even in fine cake. 

Whatever butter you use in cooking 

liuttcr tried out. , t i t aa , 

should be cooked batter which may be 
prepared when butter is cheap and put away for 
winter use. So prepared it will keep as long as lard. 

A second quality of butter may be used for this, or 
that which is beginning to be rancid; if already so, 
add i teaspoon soda to each pound, but such butter 
when tried out will not keep as long as that made 
from sweet butter. In trying out batter great 
care must be taken not to bum it. Put it in a 
large iron kettle and cook it down very slowly until 
you no longer hear tlie sound of boiling; it will then 
begin to froth and rise and thib ia a sure sign that 




L.iyui/cd by Google 



72 Preparation of Fats for Cooking, 



tlic process is coin])kaed. Set the kettle back to cool 
a few Tin* incuts, then skim and ])our off the butter 
from the dregs iato jars. Keep ia a cool place and 
closely coyered. In any recipe use ^ les? than of fresh 
batter. 

This should be done with even more 
' " care, to avoid the tallowy flavor. Exact 
directions are given in '^Cooking Methods," page 41, 

The " scraps'' are often relished by children. 

This beef fat (which we decline to call tallow) 
should be put away in cakes in a jar closely covered. 
^ To use it, scrape it fine, sprinkling a 

little flour in it to keep it light. So 
prepared it may be used in any of the ways mentioned 
under "suet," and to this list still others may bo 
added, since it does not need, as docs suet, long cook- 
ing in order to mix it well with the other ingredients 
of the dish. It can be used successfully in warm 
breads of all kinds, and in all but the nicest cakes 
if mixed with \ butter. 

Much of the lard now furnished is so 
poor, that unless one pays a high price 
to a well known dealer, it is bi tter for each house- 
keeper to buy the leaf lard and try it out herself. 

Cut fine and cook all the water out, taking care not 
to bum* 

The scraps " are even better than those left from 
suet and should by no means be thrown away. 

BAUOES FOB M8AT AND YBOSTABLEB. 

The economical and busy housewife says she has no 

time nor money for sauces, but the fact is she cannot 
afford to do without them. 




i^'iyuizuu by GoOglc 



All vegetables mast iiave some fat to season them 
aad to use batter in every case is extravagant and 
gives no yarietj, while a cheaper fat if made into a 
sauce with flonr and water, can be fiavored in a dozen 
ways* 

DKAWN BUTTER SAUCES. 

Drawn butter, which is the foundation oj. most of 
the sauces is thus made. 

A heaping tablespoon of butter or beef 
^^^^ fat is put into a sauc(^paii; when it boils, 

1 licaping tablespoon flour is added and stirred as it 
cooks. To this add gradually 1 pt of water, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and i teaspoon of pepper. If you wish to 
unite economy and good flavor use i tablespoon of 
beef fat in making the sauce, and add i tablespoon 
butter, cut in little pieces, just before serving. 

Milk same is the same, made with milk instead of 
water. 

In brawn sauce, the fat and flour are stirred till 
they brown, then make as above. 

Any number of sauces can be made from these 
three by adding different flavors; chopped pickles and 

a tablespoon vinegar are added to No. 1 when it is to 

be used on tishj or mustard for mustard sauce. 

The addition of eggs raw or cooked makes another 
variety. 

With the help of milk we can make 
Milk gravies. ^ grayy as in "milk sauce," with beef 

or pork fat, seasoning with salt and pepper and per- 
haps some powdered herb. 
Children like all these gravies, if nicely made and 

ilavured, to eal on bread as well on vegeLabied. 

7 



L^'iyuiz-uu by LiOOgle 



t4 8aue$i» 

MEAT SAUCES. 

A few cheap saaces for meats alone deserre special 
tnention. 

2 tablespoons green mint or spear mint 
Mintsauoe. chopped, 1 tablcspoon sngar, i cup 

viuegar. Mix and let stand an hour or two. 

Boil I pt. fresh or caniied tomatoes 
with a little onion, salt, and herb flavor- 
ing until quite thick, then strain and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of flonr cooked in a teaspoonful of batter. 

Any sonr fruit, as apples or plums, 

Fruit sauce. ^ ^ « j. x x -1.1! 

makes an excellent sauce to eat with 
meat. Apple sauce goes especially well with pork. 
Horseradish drawn butter or any meat 

■auoe. gravy i cup grated horseradish. Sim- 

mer a few mmutes. 



Digitized by Google 



OAEBOHTDEATE - OOI^TAmmG 

FOODS 

AND THEIR FHEPARATION. 



We are now to furnish for the body the third great 
food jHrinciple, the carbohydrates. These we mean 
when we speak of the starches and sngars^ and with 
unimportant exceptions, they are fnmished by the 
vegetable world only. 

As we have seen, that troublesome 
body, cellulose, plays here a large role. 
It is the skeleton, so to speak, of plants, built by them 
oat of sugar and starch; the chemist finds no diffi- 
culty in his laboratory in taming it back into dextrin 
and sugar, and oar stomachs too can digest a large part 
of the cellulose of very young and tender plants, — 
from 47^ to 62 it has been found, of young lettuce, 
celery, cabbage and carrots, — but in older plants, the 
cellulose proper becomes all intergrown and encrusted 
with substances of a woody and mineral nature, from 
whieh even the chemist separates it with the greatest 
difficulty, while oar digestive juices are entirely un- 
equal to the task. Therefore it is that the whole art 
of the cook is needed in treating this substance; she 
must soften it, she must break it up, and in many 
cases separate it as completely as possible from the 
sugars, starches and proteids which it hinders us from 
appropriating to our use. 

75 



L-iyuizod by Google 



76 Cellulose. * 

In some cases, as in oatmeal and gra- 



Ito UOQ* 

ham Hour, we leave the celiniost Ix eause 
of its mechanical action on the bowels. To bo sure, 
this is a wasteful process, for tlie cellulose carries with 
it when it leayes the body oonaidenibie undigested 
food, but better this waste than to give the mascles 
of onr intestines so little work to do that they be- 
come unable to digest any but fine, condensed foods. 

As a rule, however, we must think of cellulose 
not i\E a food at all, but as a tong-h, forrirrn body 
which we must reckon with before we can utilize the 
proteid and starch partioles of many important y^ge- 
table foods* 

Amount of carbohydrates^ especially the 

GuDohydnte. gtarcheSy are the cheapest of the food 
constituents and therefore most apt to be in excess, 

especially in the food of the poor. According to 
estimates already given, an adult at average hard work 
gets along nicely with 1-J lbs. of carbohydrate mate- 
rial (meaning, of course, the dry amount of this one 
principle), though fortunately, as mentioned under 

Fats/' it is found that some of this large amount 
can be exchanged for fat, if the body, for any reason 
can bettelr use the latter. Brainworkers and the 
richer classes the world over take less of carbohy- 
drates, at least in their starch form, and more pro- 
teids and fats. 

Inasmuch as we get these carbohydrates from the 
y^etable kingdom, and because the housewife must 
furnish them combined with other principles as in 
bread and other things made of flour, and in yarious 
dishes in which vegetables are combined with meat. 



Digitized by Google 



DigeatibilUff of Vegetable Foods. 77 

milk^ eggi&, etc., we will cease g])eiikiiig of carbuliy- 
drates as such, and will give a few hints as to how to 
piepare yegetahle foods so that we can get the most 
out of thenii bearing in mind, however^ vhat has been 
said about not following oat this principle to the ex- 
tent of weakening the bowels. 

To what extent This leadii ub, first, to examine the 
diKestod. general digestibility of the wliolo class 
of vegetable foods; meaning by this, not the rapid* 
itj nor the ease, but the eaUmt to which the nutritive 
principle is yielded up to ns. It has been found that> • 
as usually prepared, vegetable foods give up to us 
from i to ^ less of their nutrients than do animal 
foods, and especially is this true of those that are rich 
in proteids. To illustrate: a workman eats as part 
of his dinner a dish of boiled beans, but though he 
rightly considers that he has been eating a nourishing 
dish, he has really absorbed only 60^^ of the nitrogen- 
ous substances contained in it, the other 40^ passing 
from him unused because of its intimate connection 
with the cellulose; at least this was the case with 
Prof, btriimpeli who records the result of personal 
experiments on the digestibility of beans cooked whole. 
Now this workman digested of the meat part of his 
dinner 97^^ and this comparison shows how the 
tougher kinds of cellulose interfere with the absorp- 
tion of the food iiKiiters which they enelose. 

The starch part of vegetable food we seem to get 
out much better than the proteid part, even with our 
ordinary methods of cooking; thus out of cooked 
rice we get almost 99$^ of the starch, but only 80j^ of 
what proteid it contains; flour iu the form of noodles 



78 



TJie Shady Side of Vegetable Diei. 



and niacjiroui yields up 984^ of its starch aiid 80;^ of 
its albumen, — in thv form of bread a little less of each. 
The potato will give us only 75^ of wluit little pro- 
teid it contaius, but as high as 92.5^ of its starch. 
Effect of too Although the stMch-contaimiig foods 
much starch are cheap and although they yield up a 

in tbe diet. ^^^^ ^.j^j^ nu^j^^jy^ princi- 

ple, they must not be used to excess for the following 
reason. Starch must first be turned into sugar by our 
digestive juices before it can be taken up into the 
blood, and if the stomach is given more at a time 
than it can master, certain fermentations may take 
place, and digestion be influenced. The best author- 
ities say that without doubt the continued and severe 
diarrheas of small children are due to the fermenta- 
tion of starch foods for which their digestive organs 
are not yet ready. 

These fermentations, the irritating action on the 
bowels of too much cellulose, and the loss of a good 
deal of proteid substance connected with it form the 
shady side of a vegetable diet. Even the ox with his 
many stomachs gets out of grass and unchopped hay 
only 60^ of the proteid and 50^ of the fat coutaiued 
in it. ' 

Y£3£TABL£ PEOIEIBS. 

Eyen in our part of the world two thirds of the 

proteid food of most people ib taken from the vege- 
table kingdom, and in order to choose our food prof- 
itably, we must know where to look for vegetable 
proteids, and how to fit them for eating. Here the 
cereals and the legumes are our friends, the former 
fonushing from 7 to 14^ in their dried state, the lat* 



Orains, 



79 



ter giving the astonishing figure of 20 to 24<^; or as 
much as meat 

GBAIKS. 

The cereals or grains, thongh containing much less 
proteid than the legumes^ are more Talnable to as 
because of their excellent taste, their ayailability to 

the cook and the readiness with which when ground 
they yieki us their nutrients. 

biuce the grains arc such important foods, a table 
is appended showing the average richness in food 
principles of those in common use among ns. We 
find that different analyses of the same grain differ 
greatly from one other, barley for instance, ranging 
from 8 to IS'jh in its proteid, and this may account for 
a certain grain being popular in one country and not 
in another. 

In onr country we are especially fortunate in the 
cheapness and excellence of at least two of the grains. 
Wheat and la. Wheat and Indian Qom. The first 
diaa Com. has of course much higher food value, 
but the latter is so cheap and can be so easily cooked 
that it is a blessing to the poor. The large per cent 
of both proteids and fat in oats is to be 
noted, justifying as it does, the high 
esteem in which they are now held among ns* At the 
other extreme is rice, the poorest of the 
grains in both these principles, but its 
almost perfect digestibility renders it very usef uL 



L.iyui/ed by Google 



80 Analysis of QraintL 











f - 




Analysis of 


CO 


O ^ 




•i 


Grains. 


f 








'3 
Q 






% 


% 






Fine Wheat Flour 


10. 


1.0 


75.2 


13. 


0.;) 


Rve Flour 


11.5 


2. 


69.5 


14. 


1.5 


Barley Grits 


11. 


1.5 


71.5 


15. 


0.5 


Oat Grits 


14.5 


6.0 


65. 


10. 


2.5 


Buckwheat Flour 


9.5 


2. 


72.6 


14. 


1. 


Com or Maize 












Flour 


10.15 


4.80 


68.45 


14. 


2.6 


Kice Grains 


8. 


1. 


76.5 


13. 


0.5 



SUGAKS. 

Most people would class sugar among the luxuries, 
and indeed we are best acquainted with it in those 
combinations with frnit, eggs, butter, and Tarious 

ilavoring matturs, wliicb, as puddings, pies, cakes, 
custards, etc., mn\e up our dessert list. 

Our lirst concern, however, is with its 
food value. It gives us the high figure 
of 99^ of the third food principle, — Carbohydrates. 
That is, it must be put in the list with bread and it 
can be used to a certain extent instead of bread and 
other starch foods. Moreover, it is especially fitted 
for a food in cases where nourishment is needt d im- 
mediately, as it is digested or absorhed into the sys- 
tem almost as quickly as water and without taxing 
the digestiYe organs, and perhaps on this account is its 
consumption so great in our country ; we live fast, 
and we want our nutriment in a condensed form, 
liut on account of its cost and because we are able 



Sttgars* 81 

to tciku only a moderiite amuunt at a Lime, sugar can- 
not, to any great extent, take the place of tlie 
starohes; we are to value it chiefly for the relish it 
gives to other food& As a flavor, it is 
it8 chief value. ^j^^ greatest TiJue, but if we prize 

variety we are certainly accustomed to the taste of 
sugar in too many dishes, as in rice, custards, and 

various egg and bread dishes, whicli Lhu foreigner 
would sometimes salt instead of sweeten, and eat with 
his meat instead of at the end of the meaL 

We would suggest that when we do use sugar, as in 
a pudding, for instance, that we use less of it than we 
are aocnstomed to do, for in that case we could eat 
enough of a dish so flavored to make it furnish more 
of the real tiubstauce of a meal. 

BEANS, PEAS ANB LBHTHJEL 

PeroentofPro- Look again at the remarkable per 
cent of proteid given by this class of 
v^tables. Beans and peas, 23$^, Lentils, 25;^, while 
beef gives on the aven^ only from 17 to 91^. By peo- 
ple who from choice or necessity live princij^ally on 
vegetables, the legumes have always been largely used ; 
their consumption is extensive in India, China, and 
in all of Europe. 

To be sure, the ptaiiUf of the proteid is not the 
same as in meat, — ^it is less stimulating and palatable, 
and perhaps in other ways inferior, but the proteid 
needs of the body can b(^ answered by it, and tliat is 
a very important item when the question is one of 
economy. 

The impression that dried beans and 
peas are hearty" food^ fitted for out- 



IMgosttbllity* 



S^Z Peas, Beans and Leuiik. 

door workers rather than for less yigoroas people or 

tliose of sedentary habits, seems justified by the fact 
that these vegetables contain an unusually large per 
cent of cellulose of the tougher sort 
which requires a long oontmued appli- 
cation of heat to free it from the proteid and starch 
of the yegetahle ; indeed, unless it is broken fine or 
ground into flour, cooking, however long continued, 
will be insufficient. We have seen that Prof. Striim- 
pell digested only 40^ of the })roteid of buans cooked 
in the ordinary way, but when they were ground to 
flonr and baked he digested 91.8^ The fact is, we 
conld cook and eat oar wheat whole 

Beftu flour* « •« « i 

much moT6 easily than we can onr 

beans, and yet bean flour is not in the market, if we 
except the "prepared" sort in small, expensive pack- 
ages. It seems that the best we can do is to cook 
beans well and sieve them; in that way we free them 
from the skins at least 

The dried and split pea, thongh as 
^'^^ yalnable as the bean and already freed 
from the skin, is not as much used among us ; it 
should be more employed in soups and us a vegetable. 

Lentils a few years ago were to be found only in 
large cities ; now they are more easily attainable. 
Their food yalae, as we hare seen, is still greater than 
that of beans and peas, but the taste is not as agree- 
able nntil one becomes accnstomed to it. An eco- 
nomist cannot aftord to neglect the legume family, 

POTATOES. 

We in onr conntry need not feel as bitter against 



i^'iLjuiz-uu by Google 



FokUoes. 



bd 



rtie potato as do the scientists of Europe, for we are 
not obliged to usf it to rxress, and considering its cheap- 
ness and ayailabiii ty it is for us a good vegetable and on 
these accounts^ though it makes a poor enough show- 
ing as to food yalne, we must rank it next to the bean 
in importance. It has only 2^ of proteids, no fat and 
only 20. carbohydrates, and yet since it can ))e pre- 
pared in su uiiiuy ways and we never tire of its mild 
flavor, it will doubtless continue to come upon our 
tables more frequently than any other yegetable 
But eyery day or twice a day, in large amounts, is far 
too often; indeed those who use it to this extent must 
be ignorant of its relatirely low food yalue. The 
quality of the potato is of great importance and none 
but the best should be used. It should be a mealy 
variety and perfectly ripe. 

Green vegetables, excepting the pea and bean, are 
not to be valued chiefly for what we can reckon up 

in them of protcids, fats and carbohydrates, for the 
amount is very small. Except in the height of the 
season they must be looked on as luxuries, but we will 
buy them as often as we can afford them. In quan- 
tities sufficient to flavor soups and stews they can 
always be afforded, and in this way should be freely 
used, carrots, celery^ parsnips, and tomatoes, for 
example. 

Our markets offer us a great variety of fine fruits, 
and many of them are cheap in their season; apples 
in the fall are within the reach of the very poorest. 



L^'iyuiz-uu by LiOOgle 



84 



Fresh f raits have a large per cent of waier^ as 
high as 89^ in the orange, and few fruits have less 
than 80^. Their food yalne is mainly in the form of 

sugar, apples giving us on an average 7.75^, grapes, 
14.3^; of proteids, the amount does not, with the 
single exception of the stra wherry, reach 1^; but 
fraits are very nsef nl to us on account of their flavor, 
due to various aromatic bodies, fruit acids and sugar. 
The apple is especially valuable on account of its 
cheapness and fine keeping qualities, and is used in a 
variety of ways by the cook to give a relish to plain 
materials. Although our largest use of them is in 
sweet dishes, they are perhaps quite as valuable used 
without sugar; they may be fried in slices and eaten 
with fat meat, as bacon or sausage, or they may be 
used to stuff a fowl. 

Fruit is not for all people easy of digestion if eaten 
in considerable quantities, and this is partly on ac- 
count of its relatively large per cent of woody fibre, 
and also, esj)ecially when not quite ripe, because of 
the acids and pectose contained in them. Huckle- 
berries have 12^ woody fibre, apples only 2^ including 
the seeds and skin« 

The importance of dried fruits as food is not well 
enough understood. Fruit loses in drying a large 
portion of its wuter, leaving its nutritive parts in 
more condensed form for our use; dried apples are 
very near to bread in the per cent of nutrients they 
offer, and the dried pear may be caUed the date of Ger- 
many, BO general is its use. With us this fruit is too 
expensive, but in parts of Germany the writer has 
seen dried pears commonly exposed for sale by the 




Digitized by 



Cooking of Chains, W 

barrel like beans; they are eaten in great quantities by 
the common people, who seem to digest them and 
dried apples irithout any trouble, accustomed as their 
stomachB ore to a lye bread and yegetable diet 
These dried fruits are made into a variety of dishes 
with meats, with potatoes and with beans and also 
with noodles and macaroni. 

COOKTITG OF GRAINS. 

The grains may be cooked whole, coarsely ground, 
as grits, and finely ground, as flour. 
GraiDfl Dooked All these giains can be cooked whole 
whole. but it is seldom done, because of the 

length of time required. Only rice and barley are 
generally so cooked. 

In cooking rice, the aim should be to 
have the grains distinct from each other, 
soft, dry and mealy. 

This is the best way. Add to the rice 
three times its bulk of water, salt well, 
put in a coTered dish in a steamer and steam J honr. 
Or, the rice may be soaked over night, and it will then 
steam soft in twenty minutes. 

Put the rice into a large quantity of 
^^'^ boiling water, add one teaspoon salt to 

each cnpfnl of rice; boil fast, stirring occasionally. 
Drain, dry out a little and keep warm by coTering 
with a cloth, as is done with potatoes. Save the 
water poured off for soup. 

Its best use is as a vegetable with 
meat. Being of a bland and neutral 
character, it can, like bread, be made into an endless 



Digitized by Google 



Sd Coohiny of Grits. 

nnmber of dishes to be eaten with meats, or into des- 
sert dishes, witli sugar, friuU, etc. For rice omelette 
(see page 60), rice pudding* (see pages 107 and 110). 

Grated cheese is a good addition to rice, supplying 
its lack of proteids and fat. 

Peaxi barley Boak all night and boil soft in salted 
iMUe^ water. It may also be steamed. Use 

as a thickening for soups, or like rice, as a vegeta- 
ble, or a breakfast dish with sugar and milk. 

It is excellent mixed with its bulk of 
prunes, g^^wed prunes; — ^pour over it melted 
butter, sugar and cinnamon. 

GBAIl^S, COABSELY GKOUND, OB OBITS. . 

These are hotter adapted to simple cookery than 

are fine flours, since to make tliem eatable it is only 
necessary to cook tlu ni soft in water. The grains 
used in this way among us are cracked wheat, farina or 
wheat grits, oatmeal, hominy and com meal, and they 
are all cooked in nearly the same way. 

MUSHES. 

WliMt.oatuid Xirne 2-3 hours. This time may be 
com musliBB. ^ , , i 

shortened by suakmg the grits some 

hours iu water. Oatmeal and corn cannot be over* 
cooked. 

Amouni of Water* They all, except com, ahsorh 
from three to four times their Imlk of water; com, a 

little over twice. 

Salt, One teaspoonful to one cupful of grits. 

Method of cooking. Steaming is best, &s there is 
then no danger of homing or of making the mush 




Digitized by Google 



jtushes. 



6t 



pasty by stimng. Tut tho gi itg and four times their 
bulk of water into a double boiler or into a dish and 
set the dish into a steamer, or use a tin pail with 
tight cover, and set in a kettle of water; — any way to 
keep it at boiling heat without burning. 
Uses for ooM Porridge, Stir any cold cooked mush 
mufliMa smooth with half water and half milk 
to the consistency of porridge. Add a little salt and 
boil up. Sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg may be 
added as flavor. Of course porridges can be also 
made of the nnoooked gritSy they are simply very thin 
mnshes. 

Pancakes, 1 enp of cold oatmeal, hominy or com 
mnsh, % caps floar, \ pint of milk, ^ teaspoon salt, 

and 1 egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder or 1 of soda and 
2 of croam of tartar. Or, sour milk may be used with 1 
teaspoon soda, omitting the cream of tartar. These 
mashes will diSer a little in thickness, and therefore 
more or less flonr may be needed. Bake on griddle. 

Muffim, The same mixture as aboye, with the 
addition of a little more flour. Bake in muffin rings. 

To Fry, For this, only com mnsh and hominy 
are commonly used. When cooking, add a iiandful 
of wheat flour to the mush to make it stiffer. Pack 
while warm into a square mould and when cold cut in 
slices and fry slowly to a nice brown on a griddle with 
a little SsX, Ot, the slioes may be dipped into beaten 
egg, then into bread crumbcf, and fried in boiling fat. 

OOBK FLOUB. 

There is one fine flour that can be treated in the 
oame way as the coarsely ground, — that made from 



Digitized by Google 



Com and 6rakam Phut, 



Indian corn. Perhaps on aeooant of its larger 
per cent of fat and because little of its albumen is 

in the form of gluten, it does not form into a sticky 
paste as does wheat flour, but can be mixed with water 
only and then boiled or baked into digestible and 
'good tasting food^-and this is one thing that makes 
com BO valnable a grain to people like the negroes of 
the sonthem states, whose cooking apparatus is of the 
most primitive sort Oom meal has one pecnliarity, — 
it quickly soars and should be kept no longer than a 
week. The ki In-dried inciil, however, keepd indelinite- 
ly, and is nuw hirgely used, but is not as sweet as the 
freshly ground. The name meal ' seems to be used 
for both the fine and coarsely ground. 

This, whether made from fine or 

Corn mtiitk ^ • i ji i*i 

coarsely ground com, is cooked uke 

grits. See page 88. 

Hoe cake or corn 1 quart Indian mciil, 1 teaspoon salt. 

pone. Moisten to a dough with boiling water 

or milk; let it stand a few hours till it shows air 
bubbles on the surface^ then make into thick cakes 
and bake in the oven, or cut in slices and fry in pork 
fat on a griddle. Break, not cut, and eat hot. 

GRAHAM FLOUR, 

This preparation of wheat, though finely ground, 
may be treated somewhat like grits, and a bread may 
be made of it with the addition of water only which 
will be light and palatable. The secret of success is 
in having the oyen Tory hot. 

Mix salted grahaui Hour with cold 



Ontaama^NH.. ^^.^^^^j. ^ batter thick enough to dru}>, 
then put it into iron forms already heated, and bake 
in a very hot oven for about fifteen minutes^ 



Digitized by 



Mne Wheat Flour. 



S9 



FIHE WHEAT PLOUB. 

Flonr may be cooked, of conrse, in boiling water 

or milk, and in this way is used to thicken gravies or 
soups, and also to make a sort of mush with milk 
and iiggs. See Minute Pudding," page 107. 

The principle of cooking it in this case difters not 
at all from the cooking of a potato; in both cases the 
starch granules soak np the hot water till they burst 
their cellulose walls. But if we were to try to bake 
flour when wet np into a thick paste, we would find it, 
in the lirst place, ditUcult to accomplish, the heat being 
very slowly communicated from the surface to Uie 
interior, and when done, we would have only a tough 
indigestible mass. There is, however, one way of 
preparing such a paste for cooking, which we will con- 
sider before treating the raising ^' of flour for bread. 
!Flour dough is in this case kneaded hard, rolled thin 
and then dried. So treated we know it in the form of 

MACARONI AND NOODLES. 

Macaroni. trade article extensiyely used 

abroad where the best kinds cost only ten to twelve 
cents a pound, and the broken or imperfect sticks 
not more than seven. It is a valuable article of food, 

but its use will not become extensive among us while 
it is so dear. 

Like the fine flour of which it is principally com- 
posed it is deficient in fat^ and must be eaten with 
the addition of butter, cheese or milk. 

ffaw cooked. Put into plenty of salted boiling 
water, and boil twenty or thirty minutes, till it is 
perfectly tender (if old it takes longer to cook). 
8 



Digitized by Google 



90 Macarom and Noodles. 



Drain caref ally^ pouring it into a caUender or lifting 
ont with a skimmer. 

Isfc. (Best.) Put it in the dish in 
layers with grated cheese and butter. 
2d. Serve with milk and butter sauce. 
3d. Add two beaten eggs to the milk and batter 
sauce. 

Like bread and rice, macaroni when 

other Uaefl. i j • ji • i. x ^ 

cooked IS made into a great number of 
dishes ; it is added to soups, it is mixed with meat m 

ragouts, and it is cooked with certain vegetables, as 
tomatoes. 

Arrans^e the macaroni in a puddin? 
With TbmatoeB. j. » . T -^.x. j. j i_ j 

dish in layers with grated cheese and 
stewed tomatoes. Brown in the oven. 

This is also a trade article, but that 
of home manufacture is much better. 

It may be called one of the German national dishes, 
80 extensive is its use among that people, with whom 
it often constitutes the main dish of a meal without 
meat. 

Ingredients* 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk or water, 
1 teaspoon salt, and flour. 

To make. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
put in the other ingredients and work to a stiff 

dough, then cut in 4 strips, knead each till fine grained, 
roll out as thin as possible and lay the sheet ont to 
dry. When all are rolled begin with the first, cut it 
into 4 equal pieces, lay the pieces together and shave 
off yerj fine as yon would cabbage* pick the shavings 
apart with floured hands and let them dry a little. 
Sfb f$se. Boil them a few at a time in salted water 




Digitized by 



Bread Making, 91 

taking them out with a skimmer and keeping them 
warm. Strew over them hread crumhs fried in hat- 
ter or use like macaroni. (See page 90. ) 

These noodles will keep indefinitely when dried 
hard, therefore when eggs are cheap they may be 
made and laid up for the winter. The water in wliich 
they are boiled is the basis of Noodle 3onp; it needs 
only the addition of a little butter, a tablespoonfulof 
chopped paraiej and a few of the cooked noodles. 

Experimenters have proved that flour in the form 
of noodles and macaroni is more perfectly digested 
than even in bread. 

BBEAD MAKING. 

Principles In- f^j. hfkYB used in the cooking 

of flour no other ])rinciple than the 
simple application of water and heat. We nuist now 
consider how fine flour is to be made into what is 
known as bread. As before said^ the particles easily 
pack together when wet into a jwsty dongh which, if 
so baked, would defy mastication and digestion. We 
must contrive in some way to separate these flour 
}i;n"t icles by forcing between Ihciu air or some other 
giis, so as to present as large a surface as possible to 
the action of the digestive juices and this may be done 
1st, By surrounding these particles by fat, as in mak- 
ing pie-emst; 2d, By the air contained in beaten 
egg; dd. By forcing carbonic acid gas through the 
mass by the action of ( a ) yeast, or (h) oi bi-carho- 
nate of soda acting on some acid. 

VLOtm BAISBD WITH FAT. 
We-cnwt. The familiar example of this method 

is pie-crust, where a paste of water and flour is re- 



Digitized by Google 



92 Piecrust and Egg-Eamd Breads. 

peatedly rolled and spread with some fat, as lard, until 
the paste la in paper-thick layers with the fat between. 
When baked^ the air expands and separates the flour 
particles, a true lightness being the result. 

So much fat must be employed to produce this re- 
sult, however, tliattheuse of this method will of course 
be limited to the construction of dessert dishes, of 
which not much is eaten at once. 

A flour rich in starch is better for this porpoae 
than a gluten flour. 

FLOITB BAISED WITH BOG. 

The next most simple method of cooking fine flour, 
is to introduce between its particles the air adherent 
to beaten egg, and by the immediate appUoation of 
heat to expand the air and stiffen the mass thus ae- 
rated. By this method none of the food principle 
is wasted as when yeast is used, nor is a chemical salt 
left in the dough as in tlie action of soda, but the 
method is expensive and is limited in its use to what 
may be called fancy breads and cakes. 

We have selected the following mixture as the 
foundation for egg breads; of course others are pos- 
sible: 

]nmiida*i<m of 1 iiiilk^ 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon but- 
egv bieada. ter and 1 teaspoon salt 

This mixture is then thickened with any kind of 
flour, or with part flour and part bread, boiled rice, 
boiled hominy or corn mush. 

To mix. First beat the eggs very light, whites and 
yolks separately, then the yolks smoothly with the 
flour and milk, stur the whites in at last very lightly 



Digitized by Google 



Yeasi Breath* 118 

aatl bake immediately. The eggs must be beaten 
imy lights and the batter just of good pouring oon- 
aiBtencyy thinner than if no eggs were used. 
Wbeat, Grabam Add to aboTO foundation mixtare a 

^^^^08^^" scant pint of either of these flonra. 
Gdoked Bloe, ^^^^ foundation mixture one 

Hominy or Clip of flour and twocupsof boiled rice, 
Com Mush hominy or com mush (or the propor- 
Paacakes. tions may be reversed ). Bake in small, 
rather thick cakes. If they stick to the griddle add 
a little more floun 

Add to the foundation mixture 1 cup 
Hour and 2 cups bread crumbs that 
have been soaked soft in milk or water and mashed 
smooth. The batter should be rather thick. Bake 
in small cakes adding more flour if they stick. 
Muffins and Muf&ns and waffles of all sorts are 
waJHfls. made like pancakes^ but a little stiffer 
with flour. 

Other egg-raised doughs^ mixed in 
somewhat different proportions and 

differently cooked, as fritters, sponge cakes and bat- 
ter puddings^ will be iuund in another section. 

FLOUB RAISED WITH CARBOITIO ACID OAS. 

This is brought about by ( a ) the growth of the 
yeast plant or by the action ( ^ ) of bicarbonate of soda 
on some add. Both of these methods haye their ad- 
vantages. 

The action of the yeast plant when 
brought into contact with flour and 
water is to develop carbon dioxide gas and alcohol. 
This it does at the expense of the little sugar already 



Digitized by Google 



94 



WhUe Bread* 



in the flour^ but still more at the expense oi that 
which it mannfactares out of the starch, or as some 
say, oat of the glateo. The chemist ascertains this 
less of notritlTe matter to he as high as 1^, and Lie- 
big, who was strongly opposed to this method of 
bread riiisiiifir, esti muted that 40,000 people might be 
fed on the tiour that was wasted in this way in Ger- 
many alone. But notwithstanding this waste, the 
method, on account of its convenience and the good 
taste it gives to bread, still holds its ground. 

The time cannot be far distant when the baker will 
ftiniish US better and cheaper bread than we can 
make in our own kitchens. This has long been the 
case on the continent of Euro[)e, but for some reason 
we have not yet reached that point in ci?ilization 
and the housekeeper mnst still learn this art and 
practice it, for good bread is a necessity. 

The best flour is, eTon for the poor, 
Quauty of floor, ^j^^ cheapest, as it makes more and bet- 
ter bread to the pound. There should always be two 
kinds kept on hand; the yellowish, high-priced gluten 
flour tor bread making, and the whiter, cheaper sort 
for pastry, cake and thickenings. 

No recipe for making yeast will be given, as the com- 
pressed yeast is so much better than the house-wife 
can make, and is now obtainable even in small towns. 

Proportions. 1 quart warm water, 



2i qts. (about) of flour, 1 tablespoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon or one cake of comju'essed yeast, or 
i cup liquid yeast. The proportions of flour and 
water differ according to the quality of the flour, the 
gluten flours taking up much more water than the 
starch floors. 



Digitized by Google 



Whiie Bread. 



95 



Pat the floor and salt into yonr bread pan and 
make a hole in the middle, then pour in gradnally the 
water in which the yeast has been dissolTed, mixing 

as you pour with your hand or with a spoon. As 
soon as the mass will hold together, take it out on a 
moulding board and witli floured liaiids work it grad- 
ually into a tender dough, using as little flour as possi> 
ble^ for the dough most remain as soft as can be 
handled. This first moulding should take from 15 
to 20 minutes. Then let the bread rise in a warm 
place ; the yeast plant can live in a temperature 
ranging from 30** to 170° F. but thrives best at about 
72**. Cover with a cloth and in winter keep by a warm 
stove. If made with compressed yeast, the dough will 
rise the first time in an hour. Take it at its first 
lightnessi before it begins to sink back (it should be 
like a honeycomb all through, and double or treble 
its original bulk), put it on your moulding board, or 
^ of it at a time, and mould it well until it is fine 
and tender again. Add no flour this time but keep 
the hands moist with warm water or milk or with 
lard. Divide into loaves — small ones — which should 
only half fill the greased tins, and set again to rise, 
keeping it at the same temperature and letting it get 
very 1 i gh t again. Flour that is rich in gluten requires 
longer to rise than that containing more starch. 

It is difficult to give directions about 
BaUnflr hrmA, ^|^^ hciit of the oven. One housekeeper 

says ** hot enough so that you can hold your hand in 
till you count twelve," another, '* until you can count 
thirty/' and the puzzled novice can only inquire 
*'how fast do you count ?" The oyen must be hot 



Digitized by Google 



96 White Bread. . 

enough to brown the bread lightly in ten minutes, 
and to bake a small loaf in from twenty minates to 
half an honr. 

If more convenient, a bread sponge 

Additional facts. _ j x xs i. '1.1- j. 

may be made at nist with the water^ 
yeasty and part of the flour, and when light, the rest 
of the flour added. It hastens the process a little. 

How many times ^^ot let tlic bread iisc morc than 
Bhaii bi-ttid rise? twice; it loses each time some of its 
nutritive qualities. Bread raised oin^ is coarse of 
grain but sweet to the taste. 

To keep iwead Monld it harder than yon do bread 
loDff. that is to be eaten soon* 

Duugh that has the bread pan immediately into 

becmme ohiUed. ^ larger one tilled with warm water and 
as the water cools replace with warm until the dough 
begins to rise again. 

DouRh raised du- This method IS often convenient, and 
ring the night, does very Well if slower yeast is used, 
but bread is better to be raised quickly with com- 
pressed yeast If the latter is used a forenoon is suf- 
ficient for the process of making and baking. 
To delay tiio (jonvenience, as to make warm 

baking of bread bisc nils for supper, rising ilcuigh may 
dough. ^ j^gp^ ^j. ^ standstill for hours with- 

,out injury at a temperature of about 50°, as in a cel- 
lar, and an hour before baking brought into a warm 
room to finish the rising process. 

BREADS FROM OTHER FLOURS. 

Graham bi^d. C^raham bread is made like whit© 
bread using two parts graham to one 
of white flour, or any other proportion liked, but it 



Digitized by Google 



Brmn Breads, 



^7 



should be mixed very soft. A little sugar and fat 
should be added, 1 tablespoon lard or beef fat and 2 
tablespoons sugar or molasses. Bake slower and long- 
er than white bread. 

The usual and most conyenient way of making 
graham bread is to mix the flour and other ingredi- 
ents with some of the white sponge on baking day. 

Rye bread is made exactly as is bread 
from wheat flour, but in this country 
4 parts rye, 1 part corn meal, and a handful of wheat 
flour are generally used. It must bake much longer 
— two to three hours in a slow oven. It is still better 
steamed the first two honrs and baked the third. 

Com bread is made of 3 parts com 
Corn nvead. meal to 1 of wheat flour, same quantity 

of yeast and s;dt for white bread, and an addition 
of 2 tablespouiiB lard or beef fat and two tablespoons 
sugar. It is only to be stirred^ not moulded, and need 
rise but once. 

Bisonrcs, buks, bio. 

» These are "little breads*' of either 



white or graham flour. Make part of 
the dough out into little balls which will rise more 
quickly and bake in a shorter time, a little butter 
or lard, one tablespoon to a quart of dough being 
generally moulded with it. 

When called Breakfast Bolls'' the dough Is made 
out into flat round cakes, the top buttered and folded 
over not quite in the middle. 

Milk rolls are made from bread dough 
mixed with milk instead of water; they 
are yery tender and delicate. 
9 



Digitized by Google 



^8 iiscuit, iufis, Ms. 

Wheat irems or One modification in the baking of 
drop biscuits, dough is woithj of mention. Use about 
a cap more milk in mixing the receipt for bread 
giyen aboye, bo that the dough will jnst drop from a 

spoon and then bake in forms in the oven, or on a slow 
griddle. 

ThcRe are made from bread douffh 
mixed with miik and with the addition 
of 4 eggs and 1 cup of batter to a quart of ^lilk. 
Form, long and high. 

ooieriintfor There are many nges for the aboye 
niskdoQffii. dongh. When made out into hiBcnit 
shape it may be steamed and eaten as a simple pad- 
ding witii fruit, or, made into tiny balls and cooked, 
when h'ght, in a meat stew^ the dish being then 
called a pot-pie. 

These are like Musks (above) plus 3 
Buofi, plain. gugar and a little spice, say, i 

teaspoon nutmeg. Boll the dough out i inch thick^ 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let it rise till yery 
light, which will take some time on account of the 
sugar. 

To plain buTis add 1 cup India cur- 
Fruit bttOB. iiT -i T /i 

rauts^ waahedy dried and noured, or 
raisins out in bits. 

From the recipe for Bans, as aboye> 

a plain and good cake may be made by 
using 1 pint instead of 1 qaart of milk to the giyen 
quantity of eggs, butter and sugar, and adding a lit- 
tle more fruit. Bake in a ribbed pudding dish 
which lias been thickly buttered, and in the butter, 
blanched almonds arranged in rows. 



Digitized by Google 



Teast Pancakes, 6d 

Ban dough may also be Med in fat, 
as doughnuts, 
ikiraflnebrbwii To give a fine cruat to biscuit or 
onw*- bans: Brash over before baking, with a 
feather dipped in one of these mixtures: one teaspoon 
of molasses and milk, two teaspoons of sngar and 
milk, or three teaspoons sugar and the white of an 

egg. 

To show the true relation of the above doughs to 
each other, the quantity has becTi kept the same as 
for bread dough, but one-half the given quantity 
of cake, buns or biscuit would be enough for a large 
family. 

Any of the aboTe doughs can be 

To Bteam bread. i ^i. . •.j.^^t.i* 

cooked by steammg instead of bakmg, 
when more convenient. They will of course lack the 
brown crusty but may afterward be dried or browned 
in tlie oven. A somewhat longer time is required 
for steaming than for baking. 

Y£AST BREADS — THIN. 

Bsiwd Puioate The materials for these are, 1 qt. milk, 

Wheat, Graham , , 

and Corn. milk am i water, a little more than a 

qt. of flour, 1 tablespoon compressed 
yeast or -J cup liquid yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon butter; the flour may be wheat flour, wheat 
and graham mixed, or wheat and com mixed, or 
part bread crumbs may be mixed with the flour. 
Make and raise like bread sponge. It is better they 
should be too thick than too thin, as milk may be 
added to thin them after thi^y are light, but raw flour 
added at that time spoils them. 



Digitized by Google 



lOO 



8oia 6td96d Sreads. 



FKaoakmwith Add to the above batter just before 

baking, 1, 2 or 3 eggs, yolks and whites 
Muffiusand beaten separately. Use in this case some- 
WafDes. what less flonr. 

These can be made of either of the above pancake 
battersy with 1 cup to 1 pt. more floar. 

BUCKWHIUT FLOUB. 

Buckwheat flour makes bread that ia relished by 
those accustomed to its somewliat peculiar taste, but 
in this country it is used only in pancakes. 

Buckwheat Baiip 

1 qt. buckwheat flour, 1 teaspoon 
. salt, 1 cup or less of com meal scalded 

in a little water, % teaspoons molasses (to make them 
brown — a little buttermilk answers the same pur- 
pose ), 1 tablespoon compressed yeast, 1 qt, warm 
water, or enough to make a thin batter. Let rise 
oyer night. 

TIiOirR BAISBD WITH SODA. 

Soda. On the interaction of bicarbonate of 

soda and different acids, by which carbonic acid gas 
is liberated is based a common method of raising 
doughs. It wastes none of the flonr, as does yeast, 
but it has its own disadvantages. The product of 
these cliemicals acting on each other is a salt which 
is left in the bread; hydrochloric acid acted on by 
soda gives common salt, to which there could be no 
objection, but this method is not easily used in the 
household, and the salts left by other acids, as the lac- 
tic acid of milk when acted on by bicarbonate of soda, 
we get enough of in other dishes. Whether reliable 
experiments have been made as to the comparative 



Digitized by Google 



Soda Raised Breads, 



101 



digestibility of bieada rataed with soda and those 
. raised with yeast the writer does not know, bat there 

is a wide-spread impression that the former shonld 
be eaten only occasioniiUy, and it is cerlani tliat we 
tire of them auuner than of yeast breads. Besides, 
which is of importance to one who must economize in 
milk; eggs, &c.^ better materials mnst be used with 
soda than with yeast to produce an eqnaUy rich tasting 
bread or cake. 

METHODS. 

We have three methods of using bicarbonate of 

soda to raise flour; by its action on 

1. The acid contained in sour milk, from 1 to 2 
teaspoons of soda being used to a quart of milk. 

2. On cream of tartar, the proportions being 1 tea- 
spoon soda to ^ of cream of tartar to a quart of flour. 

3. On tartaric or other acids already mixed with it 
in a baking powder and to be used according to di- 
rections on the package, or, one may say in general, 
that three teaspoons of the powder go to every quart 
of flour. 

_ The secret of success in making soda 

raised breads consists in ( 1 ) the per- 
fect mixing of the soda and cream of tartar or the 
baking powder, with the flonr, cooks who are par- 
ticular sieving these ingredients fiye times. In this 
connection we cannot urge too strongly that each 
housewife should make and keep on hand this pre- 
pared flour; in a leisure time she can measure, sieve 
and mix it, and she has then in making biscuit or cake, 
only to chop in the butter, add the milk and eggs 
and it is done. 



Digitized by Google 



102 



Soda Biscuits. 



2. In light mixing of the shortenmg with the flour; 
this is best accomplished with a ohopping knife* 

3. In a rapid completion of the work after the two 

raising agencies have become wet begun to work, 
and no delay in baking wlien all is ready. 

higredients, 1 of flour, 1 tea- 
spoon salt| 1 tablespoon butter, or bat* 
ter and lard, or butter and saet, 1 scant pint swsU 
milk or water with 1 teaspoon soda and two of cream 
of tartar, or three teaspoons of baking powder; or, 1 
scant piiit sour milk with 1 teaspoon soda and 1 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar; if the milk be Yerj sour omit 
the cream of tartar. 

To make. In a chopping bowl stir all well together 
except the shortening and milk, then chop in the 
shortening which should be cold and hard, till all is 
fine and well mixed. Now add the milk a little at a 
time, still mixing with the chopping knife. Take 
out on the moulding board and roll out with as little 
mixing as possible. 

This dough is often made richer, even 1 cup of 
butter to 1 qt. of flour being nsed, bat so much as 
this can only be considered extiaTagant and on- 
healthful. 

To use this dough. Boll 1 in. thick, 
A« Biscuit. ^.^j^ biscuit cutter and bake. To 

be eaten warm with butter. 

Graham Bis- l^se three parts graham flour to one 
ouita. of wheat and treat in same manner. 

Roll \ in. thick, fit into jelly cake 

As Short Cako. j. j t i wi • i v j 

tins and bake. When mcely browned^ 
split and batter and pile up like toast. 
For fruit short oake (see pages 108 and 109.) 



Digitized by Google 



Soda Raised Pmoahn. 



103 



80DA BBEAD OF COKNT MEAX. 

Corn Bread, or 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup sour OF but- 
johnnyoake. termiik, or both of sour milk, 1 tea- 
L Plain. spoon salt, 1 teaspoon 8oda» 1 table- 
spoon batter or snet or lard, 3 caps Indian meal, and 
1 of wheat flour, or all of Indian meal Pour into a 
tin and bake 40 minutes. 

& Bldnr same with an egg and \ cup sugar 

added. 

& Very Nice. ^^.^j^ addition of 3 eggs, \ 

cap sagar and ^ cup batter, 1 cap meal being omitted. 

80DA BAISBD BBEAD— THIST. 

Pancakes without Eggs* 

l.OfWiieai Ingredients, 1 qt. flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, and 1 scant qt. sour milk, with 2 
level teaspoons soda and the same of cream of tartar 
unless the milk is very sour, when omit the cream of 
tartar. Sweet milk can also be used with 1 teaspoon 
soda and % of cream of tartar, or 3 of baking powder. 

To make. Mix the salt and cream of tartar if used, 
with the flour. Make a hole in the middle and pour 
111 the uulk gnidually, stirring with a spoon till smooth. 
Then beat hard for 5 minutes, or till it is bubbly. Add 
the soda dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, and bake 
immediately on a very hot griddle. 

Unless well beaten before the soda is added, these 
pancakes without eggs are not a success. 

If made with sour milk they will be still better, if 
when mixed ( without the soda, of course ) the batter 
is left to etwid twelve or even twenty-four hours. 



Digitized by Google 



i 

104 &tda Raised Pancakes. 

Jnst before asmg add the soda dissolved in a little 
hot water* 

2. Of Graham Are made in the same way, 1 part 

Roar. being of white llour and 3 });irts griiham. j 
a Of Com A^ above, with com meal instead of 

MeaL graham. 

Paneakes with Eggs. 

Ingredients. To any of the 3 i)receding rccapes add 
2 or 3 eggSy beating yolks and whites separately. 

Muffins and Waffles. 

Muffins and waliies of all kinds are the same as pan- 
cakec^, made a little thicker and with the addition of 
1 tableqHM>n of butter. 

Fritters. 

For fritters, which should be next in order (see page 
113). 



Digitized by Google 



USES FOR BREAD. 



. These are so numerous tliat the housekeeper need 
never fear the accniriulation of stale bread, if she will 
only take care of it in time. Every day the bits left 
from meals and the dry ends of the loaf 
To Dry Bread. ^^^^ ^ dried hard in the OTen and then 

put away in paper bags. If time allows, pare off the 
crusts, cut into cubes and dry separately to add to 

soups. 

Tliis dried bread will keep for weeks or months — 
it must simply be kept clean and dry. In any recipe 
where bread-crumbs are called for, as bread pudding 
or bread omelet, use this dried bread, laying it first 
in eoUd water till it is soft, then pressing it dry in a 
towel and crumbling it lightly with the hand. 

Here are a few of the ways in which bread can be 
used. 

U8XB POB BBE4B tS BLI0B8. 

^^oegL Xn dry toast, milk toast, and water 

toast, to be eaten as such and as a foundation for 
many other dishes* 

Fried toast — bread slices soaked in egg and milk, 
or water, and fried on a griddle with a little fat. (See 
page 60). Cold milk or water toast may be so used, 
iutten. For Bread Fritters (see page 114)« 



Digitized by Google 



106 



Uses for Bread, 



Puddings. For bread and batter padding (see page 
111). 

Stale bread may be cat in slices and 

steamed so as to taste sweet and good. 
Set the slices up on end in the steamer and steam 5 
or 10 minutes^ then dry a little in an oven. 

Bread Biscuits of all sorts^ even when seY- 

Bebaked. eral days old, may be made nearly as 
good as when fresh, by wetting the tops and setidng 
in a hot oyen for abont five minntes. A conyenient 
way of having warm bisonits for breakfast 

CrSBS FOB OBITMBS OB DBIED BBEAD, 

Soaked and crumbled as described on page 105 and 
nse in bread dough instead of half the floar. 

In bread omelettes (see page 60). 

In meat balls for soups and stews (see page 127). 

In bread dressing. Pour enough hot water on dry 
bread to soften it and chop it not too fine; season 
with chopped onion, herbs ami suet or tried out fat. 
The addition of an egg is an impro Yemen t. Bake 
covered, abont an hour, then uncover and brown. 
This mixtare may also be used for staffing a fowl, leg 
of mntton, &c. ; or it may be fried in spoonf nls on a 
griddle and eaten with a sweet sanoe as the simplest 
form of pancakes. 

In bread pancakes (see page 93). 

In bread puddings (see pages 109, 110 and 111). 

For breading chops^ oioqaettes^ that are to be 
fried in boiling fat* 



Digitized by Google 



SIMPLE SWEET DISHEa 



This department does not pretend to be complete, 
it simply aims to classify as many of the clieaper kinds 
as the ordinary family needs. These will generally }je 
used as desserts but there is no reason why the main 
dish of the meal should not have some sugar in it, I 
remember that in a simple pension in Thnringia^ Ger- 
many, I once ate of a dinner consisting of a soup, a 
salad and one other dish, whicli we would call a bread 
pudding. I was helped bountifully to this main dish 
of the meal, I ate and was satisfied, for tlie materials 
were good and it was well made and delicately baked. 
The recine will be found on page 110. 

MILK PUDDIKGS. 

lodjan puodiiigr. 1 qt. of milk, i cup com meal, 1 tea. 
spoon salt, i cup chopped suet, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
^ cup molasses. Bake covered for 3 hours in very 
slow ovcu and serve with sweet sauce. 
Swelled rice 1 qt. skim milk or 1 pt. full milk and 

puading. 1 pt, water, i cup rice, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, i teaspoon salt. Bake slowly 2 hours covered, 
then uncover and brown. It will be a creamy mass 
and delicious in taste. Serve without sauce. Baisins 
may be added. 

Minute puddirur I^gr^dienis, 1 qt. milk— skim milk 
of wheat or with 1 teaspoon butter will do — 2 eggs, 
sniiam flour, j ^^^^ teaspoon salt. To pre- 

W 



Digitized by Google 



108 Pruit' Puddings. 

Tent barning make in doable boiler or pail set in 
a kettle of boiling water. Mix the flonr and egg 

smooth with part of the milk, heat the remainder to 
boiling and stir in the egg and flour. Stir till it 
thickens, then let it swell and cook slowly for 15 min* 
ntes. Serve with fruit, or with sugar and milk. 

Ingredimia, 1 pt. water, 1 pt. milk, 

llarina pudding. ^ , " iai i.^' a 

1 teaspoon salty i pt. farina, 2 eggs. 
Make as above. 

This is excellent cut in slices when cold and fried 

brown on a griddle. It may also be made without 

eggs. 

ButtormOk I7igrc(lie7its. 1 pt. fresh buttermilk, 
poddiog. ^ tables2Joons cream or butter, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, a pinch of soda, and flour for 
stifl batter. Steam 2 hours, or till it bursts open, 
or bake in little cnps or patties. May be eaten with 
any froit sauce or with milk and sngar. 

F&UII PUDDINGS WITH SODA BISCUIT DOUQH. 

For this dongh, see page 102. 
strawberry "^hon baked as short cake, split the 
cakes and spread between each pair 

strawberries mashed and sweetened. 
Other fruit short- 1^ Same way make shortcake of 
cakes. berrios of any sort, stewed apples, stewed 
pieplant, lemon or orange tart filling, in short, any 
filling for a pie, that is ready to eat without further 
cooking. These should be eaten warm but not hot, 
and are as good next day, if put in the oven long 
enough to become again warm and crisp. 

, „ , , These favorite dishes are but modifi- 

Roly Poly pud- 

diugand ai)pie cations of the fruit shortcake. In tlie 
dumpling. ^YiQ dough Is made just stil[ enough 



Digitized by Google 



Pruii Puddings, 



to roll out, covered with apples or berries or other 
fruit, then rolled up and put to bake in a pan contain- 
ing a little water. 

For apple dumplings, the crust is cut in squares, 
sliced apples placed in the middle, then the comers 
gathered up and pinched together. Bake like Roly 
Poly pudding, or steanu 

If you wish to cook your fruit at the 
Apple pfe. gaioe time with tlie crust, fill a deep 
pie plate with fruit, as apples, and cover with the 
rolled out shortcake. Bake brown, and when done 
lift the crust, sweeten the fruit, replace the crnrt, and 
the "pie" is ready to serve. 

Raised biscuit or bnn dough (see page 98), can be 
used in the same way, or still better, yeast pancake mix- 
ture (see page 99), in layers with any sort of friat. 

If you will call these fruit shortcakes "pies," and 
be content therewith, you will save much labor, much 
expensive material, and set before your family a more 
healthful dish. No farther recipes for pies will be 
given; a few that are generally classed as such, com- 
ing more naturally under the head of puddings. 

FBUIT PUDDIHQ8 WITH BBEAD. 

1. Brown Betty. Ingredients. 1 pt. bread crumbs, or 
dry breiid moistened, 1 qt. chopped sour apples, i pt. 
sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 4 tablespoons butter or 
suet. 

Arrange bread and apples in layers in a pudding 

dish, beginning and ending with the bread cmmbsy 

seasoning each layer with the sugar and spice and 
spreading the butter over the top. Cover it till the 
apples are sof tj then uncover to brown. 



Digitized by Google 



no Custard Puddings. 

8. Berry Bett7 "^^^ same, made with raspberries or 
Berry Betty. ^]j^(3]^^|)gj.j.jgg^ jf j^^^ jnicy enough, a 

little water must be added. A pudding may be made 
in the same way with cherries or any other well fla- 
Yored fmit. 

0U8TABD PUDDIHG8. 

1. Plain. Ingredients, 1 qt. milk, 4 eggs, beal en 
yolks and whites separately, 4 tablespoons sugar, a 
grating of nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Bake in a 
battered padding dish till solid, and take from the 
oven before it cardies. 

2. Rice and cus- aboTO ingredients add \ cap of 

rice cooked soft in part of the milk, or in 
water. Bake ^ to J of an hour, till nicely browned. 

This is the foundation for tlie many yarietiefi of rice 
paddings. Baisins may be added. 
8l aitepioe^ Tapioca and Sago paddings are made 

in the same way, except that they mast 
^ ^^'^ be soaked for 2 hoars in part of the 
milk or in water. 

Indian and ciiR- To the ingredients for plain custard 
tani pud.ii[i^(. pudding add 1 i)t. of corn meal and an 
extra cup of milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon gin- 
ger, i cap sugar and ^ cup chopped beef suet or 2 
tablespoonfals tried oat fat. Scald the meal first in 
the milk and bake the padding, covered, two hoars 
in slow oyen. 

B&BAD AliTD 0U8IABD PUDDUKGS, 

L Bread pudding 1 qt- boiling milk poaied on as mnoh 
or **Seniniei bread — as will absorb it, about 1 pt. if 
hard — 4 eggs, i teaspoon salt, ^ cup 

sugar. 



Digitized by Google 



Bread and Ousiard Puddings, 111 

The milk and bread are allowed to get cold and the 

other ingredients well beaten with it, the eggs being 
beaten separately, and the whites added last. Bake 
one hour in a buttered dish. Eat without a sauce. 

Of course a bread pudding can bo made with fewer 
eggSy but then it will hardly do for the main dish of 
a meal. 

2. Bread pudding Dried bread soaked soft in cold water 
( Biinpie). and pressed dry in a cloth, milk to make 

it into a mlt mush. Add 1 beaten egg to a ]Mnt of 

the mi.xturo. Bake from half an hour to an hour 

and eat with sweet sauce. 

With raistnft. Raisins or cnrrants or tesh fruit, as 
cherries, may be added. 

With dried After patting in \ the pudding mix- 

afypteB. ture, put a thick layer of stewed dried 
apples mashed and sweetened, and flavored with 
orange peel or cinnamon. 

Brand and butter A conYenient Tariation on the ordi- 
puddiog; nary bread pudding. 

Spread thin slices of bread with bat- 
ter, and ponr oyer them a simple costard, viz. : 4 eggs 
to 1 qt. of milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt. 
Keep pressed down till the custard is absorbed; Bake 
slowly till firm and brown. Eat with or without 
sauce. 

_ ^ The bread slices may be spread with 

India currants, or with any kind of 
fresh or dried cooked fruit, not too juicy. 
indiFiduai bread ^^t small round loaves of bread into 

iraddingfL quarters, or use biscuits. Soak in a 
mixture of 4 eggs, whites and yolks, beaten separate- 



f Digitized 



by Go^Ie 



11^ 



Suet Puddings. 



ly, and added to 1 pt. of milk with a little sugar 
and nutmeg. When they have absorbed all they 
will without breakings drain and bake in slow oven 
to a nice brown, Efpreading a little batter over once 
or twice at the last. This dish can be made very 
pretty by putting cnrrants in the holes around the 
top and sticking in pieces of blanched almonds. 

BUST pni>Di]irQ& 

Ingredients, i pt. beef 8uet, chopped iine, | pt. 
molasses, i pt. milk, i pt. raisins or currants, or both. 
(A part of the fruit may be figs and prunes cut in 
bits.) 1 teaspoon salty 1 teaspoon soda mixed with 
the molasses, 1 pt. bread crumbs (dry), 1 pt. graham 
flour and 2 eggs. Steam 3 hours or bake 2. 
Eat With a lemon sauce. 

Use the aboye recipe, omitting the 
eggs and using instead of graham fiour 
and bread crumbs 1| pt. white flour. 
To lefaMt pud- Ail the preceding puddings are good 
^J^*** reheated. Gut in slices, and warm in 
the oyen, or fry in a little butter in a pan. Sift sugar 
oyer and eat with sauce. 

PUDDIK0 8AF0B. 

1 pt. water made into a smoutli starch with a heap- 
ing tablespoon flour. Cook 10 minutes, strain if nec> 
essarj, sweeten to taste and pour it on 1 tablespoon 
butter and juice of a lemon or other flayoring. If 
lemon is not used add 1 tablespoon yinegar. 

This can be made richer hj using more butter and 
sugar; stir them to a cream with the flavoring, then 
add the starch. 



Digitized by Google 



FrUters. 



113 



These are various doughs and batters fried in boil- 
ing fat, and eaten warm with sugar or a sweet sauce. 
The hot fat gives a puiij lightness and a delicious 
crisp crust. 

Lard is most generally used, but cooking oil (see 
page 41) is better, and BYm beef fat prepared as (see 
same page) is good. The fat most be smoking hot to 
prevent its soaking into the dough. For the same 

reason I matters so cooked must contain more egg than 
if they were to bo l)«iked. 

The fritter may be rolled out and cut 
in shapes, or dropped in spoonfuls or 
ran through a funnel, being, of course, mixed of dif- 
ferent consistency for each method. When nicely 
browned, take but with a wire spoon and lay on brown 
paper, which will absorb the fat, then sprinkle with 
sugar and send to table. 

Soda raised Ingredients. 1 pt. flour (| may be 

fritters. graham), ^ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon oil, 
butter, or lard, 1 egg mid \ pt. sour milk with i tea- 
spoon soda, or same of sweet milk with ^ teaspoon soda 
and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar* Beat the egg, white 
and yolk separately, adding the white last of sJl. 

Drop from ;i spoon into bulling lard ; or, omit nearly 
half the flour and pour through a funneL 

This batter may be also raised with yeast. 
^niMd These are more crisp and delicate. 

Mttn If liked Tcry light, soda or cream of 
tartar or baking powder may be added to these also. 
These batters are thinner than the preceding; they 
must be well beaten ii no soda is used. 
10 



114 



Fritters. 



1. Ingredienis, I scant pt. of flonr, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, -J pt. milk, 1 teaspoon oil or butter. 

Beat the yolks well, then again well with the flour 
and milk, add the stiffly beaten whites last Pij in 
spoonfuls. 

2. Ingredients, 1 heaping pt. flour, 4 eggs^ 1 table- 
spoon oil or bntter, 1 teaspoon salt» about a pint 
of water, or enough to make the batter a little thicker 
than for pancakes. Proceed as before. 

1 tablespoon of lemon juice may be 
added to any of the above recipes, or a 
little nutmeg or cinnamon if liked. 

Take sour apples, peel, cut out the 

Fruit frittera it j • i« « 

core neatly and shoe round m slices i 
in. thick. Soak these a few hours in sweetened wine, 
lemon juice or other flayoring. Dip in either of the 

above batters and fry. (They are also very good wiiii- 
out being soaked in the flavoring.) 

Peaches, pine apples and bananas may be used in 
the same way. 

_ . ^ . Trim the crust from sliced bread, cut 

in nice shapes and soak soft, but not 
till they break, in a cup of milk to which has been 
added 1 beaten egg and some flayoring, as cinnamon^ 
lemon, etc» Dip in fritter batter and fry. 



L. 



Digitized by 



COOKIirG OF VEGETABLES 



Tbei^ffumeB. As we have seen, the food of 
the dried bean, pea and lentil, is great, 
but as usuallj cooked a large per cent, of it is lost 
to us. 

In the pFOoesB of cookings the cellulose part must 
be broken up, softened, and as much as possible 

entirely removed. These vegetables, if they cannot 
be obtained ground, must be soaked in cold water 
some time before cooking, cooked till very soft and 
then mashed and sieved. No form of cooking that 
does not include sieving can be recommended except 
for yery hardy stomachs. See pages 55 and 117* 

This vegetable must also be treated 
with care. The starch grains of which 
it is so largely composed swell in tlie process of cook- 
ing, and burst the cellulose walls confining them, but 
when this stage is reached the potato is too often 
spoiled by being allowed to absorb steam and become 
sodden. As soon as tender^ boiled potatoes should 
be drained, dried out a few moments, then sprinkled 
with salt, and the kettle oorered dose with a towel, 
until they arc served. They should then be put into 
a napkin and sent to the table. 

Other firarden vegetables are cooked 
Otber vegetables. , ... i. • i. -i- 

more or less alike; put into boilmg 

water and kept at a rapid boil until tender, and no 

115 




Digitized by Google 



116 



Ooaking of Vegetables* 



longer^ — ^the length of time yarying for any giyen 
yegetable according to the freshnesa, size, and degree 
of matnrity. When done or nearly so, ihey should 
be seasoned and serred as soon as possible. 

A welcome variety in the servin;;^ of 
vegetables can be fouud in Bkiiiful 
mixture of two or more kinds. A few of these mix- 
tures are, green corn and shelled beans, or succotash, 
green oom and tomatoes, green com with stewed 
potatoes, potatoes and tninips mashed together, green 
peas with a qnarter as many carrots cut yery small, 
potatoes with same proportion of carrots and seasoned 
with fried sliced onions poured over. 
Vegetables and There are also mixtures of vegetables 
fruits. mxdl fruits that aie very successful, as 

lentils or beans with a border of stewed pmnes. 



Digitized by Google 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 



In general* Tliese soups sliould be largely used by 
the economical housewife; they are cheap and nutri- 
tious^ and if carefnllj made seasoned, excellent 
in taste. A large number of recipes are giyen, from 
which can be selected what is suited to materials on 
hand, to amount of time and quantity of fire. 

These will be arranged under Vegetable buups, 
Floor and Bread Soups, and Cold »Soups. 

V£G£TABL£ SOUPS. 

If any meat bones are on hand or trimmings of 
meat not otherwise needed, simmer them firom one to 
two hours in water and use the broth thus obtained 

instead of Wiiter m making any of the following soups. 

Most important are those made from the dried bean, 
pea and lentil, the three pod-coYered vegetables. Mot 
their nutritiye qualities see page 81. 

Inffredients, 1 lb, beans, 1 onion, 2 
tablespoons beef fat, salt and pepper. 
AddUiam, to be made according to taste, i lb. 
pork, or a ham bone, a pinch of red pepper, or, an 
hour before serving, different vegetables, as carrots 
and turnips, chopped and fried. 

Soak the beans over night in 2 qts. water. In 
the morning pour off, put on fresh water and cook 

117 




Digitized by Google 



118 Vegetable Soups. 

with the onion and fat till yery soft, then mash or 

press through a cullender to remove the skins, and 
add enough water to make 2 qts. of somewhat thick 
soup. Season. 

This soup may also be made from cold baked beans. 
Boil i br., or till they &11 to pieoes, then strain and 
season. 

Split or dried Make like bean sonp. 

pea Boup. *^ 

LeQtUaoujp. Make like bean soup. 

The water in which vegetables have 
Green Vegetable been cooked should never be thrown 
away, with the exception of that used 
foroooking beets^ and potatoes boiled withont peeling; 
even cabbage water can be made the basis of a good 
soap. 

General method. Boil the vegetables nntil very 
tender, mash or press through a cullender, thin suffi- 
ciently and season. 
Potato soup. Good and cheap. 

IngredienU. 6 laige potatoes peeled^ 1 large onion, 
1 heaping teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon pepper. For a 
richer soap add ^ lb. salt pork cat in bits (in this 
case put in less salt) or add 1 cup of milk or a beaten 
egg. Chopped celery leaves give a good flavor. 

Boil potatoes, onions and salt in a little water, 
and when very soft mash ; then add, a little at 
a time and stirring to keep it smooth, a qt. of hot 
water and 1 tablespoon beef fat in which 1 tablespoon 
fionr has been cooked ; or nse the fat for fiying bread 
dice, which add at the last minate. 

Most cooks fry the sliced onion before putting it 
in the soup, but the diflereuee iu taste is so slight as 

^ Digitized by Google 



Vegetable iSoups, 119 

not to be worth the few minutes extra time, if time is 
an object. 

This is fi deliciuus soup and very nutri- 

peasoup. ^-Q^^g Large peas, a little too hard to 

be used as a vegetable^ may be utilized in its manu- 
facture. 

' Ingredients. 1 pt. shelled peas, 3 pts. water, 1 
small onion, 1 tablespoon bntter or fat, 1 tablespoon 
flour. Salt and pepper. 
Put peas and onion in boiling water and cook -J an 

hour to an hour, till very soft. Press through cul- 
lender and season. 

fteand tomato -^^W to above when done, 1 pt. stewed 
soup. tomatoes and a little more seasoning. 
This is an excellent soap, having the nutrition of the 
pea and the flavor of the tomato. 
^^^^^ ^ Valuable for its fine flavor, and may 
be made nutri tious also by adding broth, 

milk or egga 

higredients, 1 pt. tomntoefl, 2 pts. water, 1 table- 
spoon fat, 1 tablespoon Hour, salt and pepper. 

Cook the flour in the fat, add the peeled tomatoes 
and a very little water* When they have cooked to 
pieces, mash them against the side of the pot, add 
the rest of the water and the seasoning. 
Tomato soup Proceed as above, using instead of half 

Wo. 8. tlie water, 1 pt. of milk, into which \ 
tea spoon soda has Ijeeri stirred. 

Ingredients, 1 pt. of parsnips cut in 
Ftarmiptoup. pj^p^g^ 3 gmnU potatoes, 3 pts. water, 

or water and milk, salt, pepper and butter. 
Cook tiU the vegetables fall to pieces, mash and add 



Digitized by Google 



1^ VegMbk Soups. 

aeafioning. If milk can be aubstitnted for part of the 
water the soap will be improyed. 

Tounff vegetable Ingredients, 1 pt. chopped onion, 
orspniiirsoup. carrot, turnips and celery root in about 
eqnal parts, 1 tablespoon fat, 1 teaspoon sugar, salt 
and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add sugar, salt and pepper, then stir 

the TOgetablee in it till they begin to brown, add 3 

pte. water and set back to simmer 1 to 2 bonis. Senre 

without straining. 

Ingredients. \ duz. ears green corn, 
com soup. ^ ^^^^ water, 1 tablespoon fat and 1 

tablespoon flour salt and pepper, an egg and a cap of 
milk. 

Out the com from the cob and boil one hoar. Add 
the flonr which has been fried in the fat, season and 
strain* 

Make as aboye, nsi'ng dried com, 
oomaou^ soaked over night and boiled 2 hours. 
flMwlwwip. An excellent flavor, new tu most of us. 

Ingredients, 1 pt. sheep's sorrel, light measure 
(bought in city markets, or gathered in country 
fields), 1 onion, a few leayes of lettnce and parsley 
all chopped fine, ^ teaspoon nntmeg, 1 tablespoon 
fat, % tablespoons flonr, 3 pts. water, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, salt and pepper. 

Heat the fat, add tlie chopped vegetables and sweat 
or steam for 10 minutes, then add flour and last the 
boiling water; add the milk just before serving. 
Serve fried bread with it. 

**BxtuAWmr illostrate how all bits can be 

«»«a^ osed, here is a soap actaally made from 
** leavings.'* 



Digitized by Coogli 



J 



Flour and Bread Soups, 



131 



1 cup water drained from macaroni, 1 cup water 
diiiined from caijljago, witli a few shreds of the cab- 
bage, 2 small bones from roast veal, 1 scant tablespoon 
boiled rice. Simmer these together with a chopped 
onion while the rest ol the dinner is oookingi thicken 
with a little flour and serve with fried bread. 

PLOUB AKD BBBAD SOUPS. 

Flour soup. Ingredimts. 1 tablespoon beef fat, 1 
heaping tablespoon flour, 2 sliced onions, 3 pts. water, 
1 pt^ milk, 1 cnptalof mashed potato, salt and pepper. 

Ery the onions in the fiit until light brown; remove, 
pressing out the fat. In same fat now cook the flonr 
till it is yellow, and add, a little at a time, the water. 
Put back the onions and let it stand awhile, then 
add milk and potato. Salt well. 

The potato may be omitted and a little more flour 
used. 

Browned moor In^redmUs, 1 tablespoon butter or 
^"P' M, i cup flour, % pts. water, 1 pt milk, 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Cook the flour brown in the fat over a slow Are or 

in the oven; add slowly the water and other ingredi- 
ents. Serve with fried bread. 

Browned Farina Make like above, but of wheat farina. 
Braadsoiipw IngredimU. Dry bread, broken in bits, 
water, salt and pepper, an onion and a little fat. 

Soak the bread in boiling water for a few minutes, 
add the onion sliced and fried in the fat; salt and 
pepper well. 

Or, use milk instead of water, and toasted or fried 
bread. 

11 



Digitized by Google 



Milk Sot^* 



Noodle Soup. (See page 91.) 

MILK sours OK POERIDQES. 

These are especially good in families where there 
are children^ and would he welcome on almost any 
supper table. They are almost equally good eaten 
cold. 

Ill making, use ii porcelain kettle or an iron kettle, 
grea8iiig it first with a little fat^ as a scorched taste 
spoils the dish* 

Ingredients, 3 pts. milk, 1 pt of 
(flatted. ) water ( or half water and half milk), ^ 

cup flour, 2 eggs, 3 teaspoons salt 
To the boiling mOk and water, add the flonr stirred 

smooth with a liUlt; cold nulk; let it cook 10 minutes. 
Beat the eggs in gradually, but do not cook them ; 
serve with fried bread. Grated cheese is an addition 
to this 8onp. 

Wheat Porridge Same as above, but using only a pinch 
(sweet.) of gui^^ 0g flaToring 3 tablespoons 

sugar and i teaspoon cinnamon. The flavor may be 
yaried by nsing grated lemon peel, nutmeg, yanilla, 
bitter almond or 2 fresh peach leaves boiled with the 
milk. 

Otlteimu These two porridges are still better 

made of farina instead of Hour. 

Pearl barley is soaked over night in 
water, and then cooked for 2 hours till 
soft* Daring the last hoar add milk instead of 
water, as it dries away« Flavor with salt and batter. 
Indian Meal Ingredtenis. 1 cap meal, 2 qts. water, 
^omog^, I tablespoon flour, 1 pt. milk, salt, and 
a little ginger (if liked). Boil the meal and water 



Digitized by Google 



Milk iSoups. IM 

an hour; add flour and salt and boil ^ hour, and add 
the milk just before serving. 

Oatmeal Make in the same way, using oat- 

Porridge, meal instead of floan 
Graham 1 CQp graham flonr to 3 pts. milk and 

^f"!^ water. Cook 15 minntes. This may 

be varied in flavor like flour porri(lo:e. 

These tliree Porridges can be made from cold com, 
oatmeal or graham mush. 

Ingredients, ^ lb* chocolate, 2i qts. 

Chocolate Soup. , < a a a ^ 

milk and water, sugar to taste, 1 egg 
yolk, a little yaniUa or cinnamon* 
Cook the' chocolate soft in a little water and add 

the rest; when boiling put in the other ingredients 
and cook the beaten white of an egg in spuoufuls on 
the top. Serve with fried bread. 
Buttermilk Soup 'i'l^c foreign kitchen has many recipes 

or "Pop." for this sonp quite unknown among us. 
Cooking brings out the add, but once need to that 
taste, one finds the sonp good and wholesome. 

Ingredients, To each pt. of buttermilk, 1 table- 
spoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter, a little salt. 

Bring gradually to a boil, stirring constantly to pre- 
vent curdling, and pour on fried bread. 

Varieties. Sugar and cinnamon are often added 
to this soap; also the yolk and beaten white of 1 egg. 
It is considered nutritions for the sick. 

Another, The Germans often add to this soup 
small potatoes, and hits of fried bacon. In which 
case the butter is omitted. 

Or to the buttermilk soup when done, is added 
half the quantity of cooked pears or prunes. 



Digitized by Google 



124 tkmit Soupi. ^ 

Brewia. To Salted boiling milk, put enough 

bread crumbs (either white or graham) to make a 
thick smooth porridge. 

This soup is earnestly recommended 

Sour cream Soup.. . . - V, * • t. • i. 

for trukl, aa there are few ways m which 
snch a delicious taste may be giren to simple materails. 

Ingredients, 8 pts. water, ^ cup sonr cream and the 
following mixture: J cup milk, i cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
butter, i tablespoon salt, 1 teaspooTi sugar, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon fluid yeast or i teaspoon compressed 
yeast. Mix these together into a dough and let it 
get light, then drop half of it in teaqM>onfals into 
the boiling water and cream; then thin the rest with 
water until it will ponr, add it to the soup and cook' 
5 minutes. (Not all the dough may be needed.) 

Ingredients. 1 pt. cider just begin- 
Gidersonp. ning to work, 1 pt. water, 1 cup milk 

( boiling), 1 tablespoon flour, a little cinnamon and 
sugar. 

Let cider and water come to a boil, add the flour rub- 
bed smooth, and cook a few minutes; and lastly add 
the milk. Serve with toast An egg yolk may be 

added. 

F&UIT SOUfB. 

To be eaten Warm or Gold 

These are made of almost any well flayored fruit, 

cooked soft and mashed, sufficient water added, with 

a little thickening, sugar and spice. They are espe- 
cially welcuuie in summer; may be eaten as a first 
course, or set aside to be used as a drink during the 
meal. 



Digitized by Coogli : 



Fruit Soups. 



125 



hwredients, 4 cups peeled and quar- 

Applo soup. No. 1. i 1 1 1 / 1 • 

terea apples, cooked to a mush m a 
little water, 1^ pts. water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 3 
teaspoons sugar, \ teaspoon cinnamon, a pinch of salt. 
No. 2. A soup plate full apples, 1 cup of rice. 

Cook soft and rub through a sieve, adding a little 
sugar, cinnamon, lemon peel, and an egg yolk. Thin 
sufficiently with water. 

. No. a Instead of rice, use in the above recipe 

bread with the addition of a few India currants. 

No. 4. Instead of rice, use oatmeal and cook 

till soft, or use that already cooked. 

Make like apple soup, but if the 
Plum Soup. ^ 

plums are very sour add a little soda, 
— J teaspoon to a qt. of soup. 
Cherry Soup. Made iu the samc manner. 

These soups may also be made of dried plums, prunes 
or dried sour cherries. Soak the fruit over night. 
Soups of Pears, soup is made of a milder fruit, as 

eta, pears, which are at some seasons so 
cheap, add a few sour apples or more spice, to give 
flavor. 



1 



ADDITIONS TO SOUPS. 



If your soup has not strength enough, milk and 
eggs may be added if no meat stock is at hand. 

The egg should be beaten, mixed with 
eggs. ^ ^i^g soup, then added to the 

rest^ bat not boiled. The yolk is better for this pur- 
pose than the white. 

Liebig's meat extract is yery Talnable 

for iitlding flavor to a soup but it is too 
expensive for general use. 

This may be boiled a few minutes 
with the soup after being mixed smooth 
in a little water, or better, cook it in a little butter or 
melted beef fat before adding to the soup. 

On baking day, saye a little of the 

S, Broad Sponge. , , n j 7 

broad sponge, make thin enough to 

pour, and if you wish, add a beaten egg. Set away 
half an hour to rise again, and when light pour into 
the soup. 

a. Vterioa. preparation of wheat, now sold 

by the pound at a reasonable price, is 

most valuable as an addition to soup ; it needs only 

to be sprinkled in and boiled for a few moments. 

4. Potato. Mashed potato mixed smooth with a 

little milk or grated cold potato may 

be added to soup to give body. 

m 



Digitized by Google 



AddUuma to Soups, 127 

fi. Buiegr* Add to the 8oap 1 hour before it is done 
pearl barley that has been soaked oyer night 

One-half hour before servi iie:, add to 

soup 1 tablespoon of rice to a quart of soup. 

Bits of bread dried hard in the oven, 

may be added to the soup just before 

serringy or try them in the spider in a little beef fat, 

or soak in milk and egg before frying. Or, toast 

bread and cnt in squares. 

Any small vegetables may be added, 
8. VegetalilM. , . 

such m asparagus tops, tiny onions 

that have been first boiled in another pot, cooked 
peaSj beans, etc. A favorite Russian soup is beef 
soup, with the addition of beets, cabbage and carrots. 

Most important of all additions to soup are those 
which need a little more time to prepare, bnt are 
worth the tronble if the soup is to be the principal 
part of the dinner. Such are the following: 

DUHPLIKQS FOtt SOUPS AUD STEWS. 

This word has an unpleasant sound, too suggestive 
of the heavy and unwholesome balls often served 

under this name, but there seems to be no other name 
under which these different preparations can be 
classed. Their basis is bread and eggs, or flour and 
eggs. 

Bread mentioned here is hard dried bread ; it must 
be softened by soaking in cold water ( hot water makes 

it pasty), then press it dry in a doth and crumble it 

Any cooked meat or several different 

kinds when there is too little of each 
to be otherwise used, is ohopped Me and mixed with 



Digitized by Google 



V 



12S Dumvlings for Soups and Stews, 

as mnch bread, salted and peppered, a little chopped 

suet or butter, or better still, marrow, and a chopped 
onion and some herbs, and to eacli cup of this mix- 
ture allow an egg. Mix lightly, make out into little 
balls and cook in very gently boiling soup. Try one 
first to see if it holds together. If not^ add a little 
flour. 

Substitiite for the meat any oooked 
Fish balls. chopped fine. 

Two eggs to 1 cup of bread and mar- 
Mhrow balkL • « t •%r i 

row size oi an egg^ chopped. Make as 

above. 

Instead of marrow, add cubes of 

Baoou Bails. y^^g^^ fyjed broiHi. 

All these mixtures can also be fried in a pan as an 

omelette, or baked. 

Flour iin 1 [jrcad Three cups, half bread, half flour, 1 
ijaiiii. egg^ butter size of an egg, 1 cup milk 
and water^ salt. Soak the bread in the milk and 
water, and make oat into little balls with the other in- 
gredients. Cook, coveredy 15 minutes (may also be 
boiled in salted water and eaten with fimit )• 

Kgy Sponge. ^ teaspoon flour, a little 

salt. Beat white of egg to foam, mix 
lightly with the reBt and pour on top of the soup. 
Turn over in a few minutes with a skimmer, and be- 
fore putting into the turreeu, cut it in pieces. 

No. 2. 1 heaping tablespoon flour to 1 egg and the 
jolk of another, and 1 teaspoon butter. Beat hard 
and drop in with a teaspoon. 

SohwabeaSpet- One €gg, 3 tablespoons milk, nearly 
I cup of flour, salt. Four through a 



Digitized by Google 



Dumplings for Soups and Stews, V-i'J 

fannel into Botip or into salted water, oook 5 min- 
utes and use to guruiisli beef. 

Btacuit Bough 'A.n excellent addition to a stew or 
BaUs. soup is of biscuit or rusk dough ( see 
page 98), made into balls no larger than a chestnut, 
and cooked in the stew, or steamed in a cloth aboYe 
it 

Also the following of buttermilk: 1 

Bttttennilk Balls* i • . mi » ^ ^ 

.cup buttermilk, i teaspoon of soda, 1 

egg, salt, and flour enough to allow of the batter 
being dropped m spoonfuls. 

Cooked macaroni cut in pieces an 
inch long, is a pleasant addition to soup. 



Digitized by Google 



FLAVORS OE SEASOOTIS[Ga 



Without doubt hunger is the best saace/' but it 

is not true, as many think, that a craving for variety 
is the sign of a pampered and unnatural appetite; 
even animals, whom we cannot accuse of havin^^ 

notions," have been known to starve in the exper- 
imenter's hands rather than eat a perfectly nutri- 
tious food 6t whose flavor thej had wearied, and pris- 
oners become so tired of a too oft repeated dish that 
they vomit at the sight and smell of it. 

What we call ilavors may or may not be associated 
with a real food. Meats are rich in flavors and each 
fruit has its peculiar taste; then, there are the spices 
and aromatic herbs which are not parts of a real f ood, 
and it is most important that the cook should under- 
stand the art of adding these as seasonings to mild tast- 
ing foods, so as to make new dishes which shall be both 
nutritious and appetizing. The bulk of our nourish- 
ment must be made up of the flt sli of a few animals, 
a half-dozen grains and as many garden vegetables, 
but the skillful cook can make of them, with the 
help of other flavors, an endless variety of dishes. 

An American traveling on the continent of Europe 
becomes acquainted with many new dishes and tastes, 
aud althougli nut all of them arc to liis liking, he 
must conclude that our cookery, compared for in- 

190 



Digitized by Google 



Flavorings, 



131 



Btance, with that of the French^ is Tery manotonons. 

To be rare, we have the adyantage of the Europeau 
in that our markets offer us a greater variety of nat- , 
ural foods, especially fruits, each having a flavor of 
its own, and this fact makes us somewhat more inde- 
pendent of the art of the cook; but still we have need 
for eyery lesson of this sort, and especially is this the 
case with the poor, who must keep to the cheapest 
food materials, which are not in themselves rich in 
flavor. 

Spices and other flavors, when not used to excess, 
stimulate our digestive organs to appropriate more 
easily the food to which they are added; their agree- 
able odor starts the digestive juices, both in the 
month and in the stomach, and their flavor acting 
on the palate has the same effect. 

The more common spices and flavors, as the house- 
wife uses these terms, are salt, pepper, mustard, cin- 
namon and mace, nutmegs, cloves, ginger, caraway 
and coriander seeds, vanilla, and many volatile oils, 
snch as those contained in the rind of lemons and 
oranges; and to this list we must add certain vegeta- 
bles, as the horseradish and various members of the 
onion family, the caper and nasturtium seeds, and the 
aromatic lierbs. 

All these have their use and their abuse. Salt is 
hardly thought of in this list, so necessary do we con- 
sider it, and its use is well enough governed by our 
palate, though no doubt we over, rather than under 
salt our foods. Pepper is also in nearly every house- 
hold used to excess, being added to too many dishes. 
The pungent mustard should be still more carefully 



Digitized by Google 



1322 



Flavorings, 



used; bat a little of it adds relish to a salad or a meat 

sa,uce, and goes especially well with certain vegetables, 
as beans. Cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, we use prin- 
cipalij with sweet dishes, but nutmeg xaakes a nice 
variety in certain meat stews and in croquettes; 
foreign cooks use it far too much to suit oar taste. 
Almost oar only use of the caraway and coriander 
seeds is in cookies ; try the former in a potato soup 
for variety. Ginger suems to go well with Indian 
meal in a pudding or porridge^ and with molasses, 
wherever used. 

To give the uses for onions and for the aromatic 
herbs woald be too long a task. The latter can all be 
bought in a dried state very cheaply, and they retain 
their flavor well; one of the most useful, however, 
parsley, is much better fresh ; by all means keep a 
little box of it growing in a window. Perhaps, after 
onion, celery is most useful as a flavor for soups and 
stews, root, stem, leaves and seeds being all valuable. 

In the flavoring of soups and stews, it is well to use 
a number of flavors, letting no one of them be promi- 
nent above the others ; on the other hand, it is well 
to have certain favorite dislies seasoned always in the 
same way ; as fresh pork with ^ge; summer savory 
in a bread dressing, etc 



Digitized by Google 



DBINKS AT MEALS. 



A wnrm (Iriiik at meals is better tlian a cold one, es- 
pecially in winter or at any time when we are tired ; and 
the drinking of ice water cannot be too strongly con- 
demnedy lowering as it does the temperature of the 
stomach and bo delaying digestion. To famish wann 
drinks for each meal, acceptable to the palate, cheap 
and harmless, is no easy question. Soups or broth 
once adopted m a part of two meals in the day, as is 
so frequently seen in Europe, and the problem is half 
solved; indeed some of the drinks here given are really 
thin yegetable soups or porridges to which the flavor 
of salt or of sugar may be giyen according to taste. 

It may be concluded, after comparing 
authors on the subject, that although 
coffee somewhat retards digestion and acts as a stimu- 
lant to the nervous system, still one or even two cups 
of moderately strong coffee a day will not harm a 
healthy person. We may say, therefore, that its use 
to this extent is a question of expense only. 

Java and Mocha coffee in equal parts are considered 
the best mixture. * Rio is much cheaper, and of strong, 
pure flavor. The amount to be used for moderately 
strong coffee is 1 tablespoon ( ground) to a cup. 

Chicory is considered here only as an adulterant, 
whereas in Europe a very little of it, say i teaspoon of 

18a 



Digitized 



134 



Coffee and Tea, 



the prepared chic^jry to a cup of ground coffee, is 
used to improve the flavor. 

Next to the quality of the coffee, it is of importance 
that it should be freBhly gronnd and browned* II 
yon buy it browned, reheat it first before grinding. 
The easiest and most economical way of making is to 
grind it very fine and put into a bag made of woven 
stuff, a white stocking top will do ; leave room to 
swell. Heat this in your coffee pot as hot as you can 
without burning. Pour on boiling water and keep it 
hot and close-covered for 15 or 20 minutes. 

Boiling coffee increases its strength, but does not 
improye its flayor. 

^ All authors agree as to the barmfiil* 

ness of strong tea, taken to excess. 
Take great pains in makinfr tea. Use an earthen 
teapot, and have a tea cozy or a large flannel doth to 
wrap it in. 

The water nsed should be between hard and soft, 
extracting the aroma but not the astringency; in 
China riyer water is used. If hard water must be 

used, remember that boiling increases its liardiiuss 
and that it should be used as soon as it reaches the 
boiling point. 

Take 1 teaspoonf ul of tea to a cup, put it in the teapot 
and heat in an oyen till hot^ pour on I cup of water 
that has just come to a boil, and coyer with the tea 
cozy. Let it stand 6 minutes, then fill up with the 
requisite quantity of hot water and serve immediately. 
Cocoa and chooo- These both contain a good deal of 
lute. nourishment, and as drinks are con- 
sidered rather heavy. As the various kinds differ 



Digitized by Google 



Oruels. 135 

very much frum each other, they are best prepared 
according to the recipes found on the packages. 

Milk, except for children, can hardly 
Gunbrio Tea, ^ looked upon as a drink, but diluted 

with hot wateTi and sweetened, it has already been 

christened for the children as cambric tea^'' and it 

is no bad drink for their elders. 

A yery thin gruel, slightly sweetened, 
Orooli* 11-1 
IS a good drink. 

Oatmeal erruei. Into a qt. of boiling water stir 2 table- 
spoons oatmeal; boil fer an hour or longer, strain 
through a coarse sieve or a cullender, add a pinch of 
salt, and a little milk and sugar. 

Wet 1 tablespoon rice flour in a little 
BioagnieL cold milk, put into 1 qt. boiling water, 

salt slightly and boil till transparent. Flavor with u 
little lemon peel and sugar. 

1 qt. boiling water, 3 tablespoons 
com meal washed m several waters, t 
teaspoon salt ; add i cup milk and a little sugar; — a 
pinch of ginger is an improyement. 

Soak pearl or sronnd barley all night 

TlHi'lfMr i> 1*1101 

or a few hums m cold water, put into 
boiling water and cook till yery soft. Season like the 
others. 

fiagdaa^ Tapioca Oau be made in the Same Way. 

All these drinks must be thin and not too highly 
seasoned. 

Brown common field com as you 

would coffee, as brown as you can without 
burning. Grind coarsely and steep like coffee. Add 
milk and sugar, and you will lind it a delicious drink. 



Digitized by Google 



1S6 



oou 4rinkaiii Lemonade is too strongly aoid for a 
Smnmer. regular drink at meals, but lemon as a 

flavor is always welcome. 

Irish xDOfls lemon- Wash a handfal of Irish moss in 5 
waters, pour over it 2 qts. boiling water 
and let it stand till cold. Strain, adding more water 
if necessary and add the joice of % lemons and sweeten 
with lamp sugar which yon have robbed on the lemons 
to obtain the oil in the skin. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 os. tartaric acid dis- 



solved in a pt. of hot water. When 
cold flavor with itnion zest or extract, and add the 
beaten white of an egg. When used, add 2 table- 
spoons of it to a glass of water in which yon have 
dissolved i teaspoon soda. 

Slice jnicy sonr apples into boiling 
' water and keep warm an honr. Strain 
and sweeten. All thest^ drinks taste best cooled (but 
not /oo cold) witli ic e. 

Sweet cider can be bottled for nse 
and makes a deliciona drink. Boil and 
sikim till it is deai^no longer; poor hot into bottles, 
and seaL 
See also vegetable and fmit sonpa. 



Digitized by Google 



OOOXEiiY FOR THE SICK 



It is comparatively emy for your family to live on a 
small income while all its members are in good health, 
bnt you will find yoor resources all too slender when 
yon mast cater for the appetite of an inralid. 

At best, sickness is always a severe drain on the 
limited income, but here, as in every oilier depart- 
ment of your work, you will iiiid that good sense and 
ingenuity will often stand you in stead for money. 

During a severe illness the food as much as the 
medicine is under the care of the physician, but when 
the danger is over and he has left you with only gen- 
eral directions^ you will be more than likely in 
your bewilderment to take the advice of the first 
neighbor that drop.-^ in, altliou^h you may know that 
neither her judgment nor experience is as good as 
your own. 

Now consider first, what did the doctor mean by 
saying that the patient must be built up,'' and how 
is the wasted frame to get back the fat and muscle 
that were burned away in the sickness? Chiefly, as 

you know, by the digestion of food, the proteids and 
fats and carbohydrates that we have been talking 
about, and still another, a real food although so often 
forgotten, the oxygen of the air. 

We have said that we need not concern ourselves 
about this food, that it would take care of itself; and 
60 it will when we are in a state of health and living 
12 187 



r 

Digitized by Google 



/ 
/ 

138 Chohery /or the Siclh 

as hamaa beings should, for as ire walk or work we 

are fed by the air withont knowing it. But the case 

is quite different with a poor invalid bliuL up m a sick 
room, we must bring the fresh air to him with as 
much care and regularity as we do his jellies and broths. 

When we are considering what we shall feed our 
invalid, we cannot do better than keep to our old 
dassification of Pjroteids, Eats, and Garbohydiates. 
He mast haye all these principles but in the most 
digestible form, for the stomach is feeble like the rest 
of the body. For this reason the proteids must be 
furnished mainly from the animal kingdom, butter 
and cream must supply the fat, and the carbohy- 
drates must bring with them as little as possible of 
the tough cellulose^ and they must be so cooked as 
to be easily digested. 

First, as to the Proteids. 

Hot milk, given often in email quantities, is much 
used in the early stages of recovery and is srenerally 
better liked if accompanied by a bit of toasted bread 
or made into a thin grueL 

In the first rank, also, comes soup made of lean 
beef scraped fine, oovered with cold water and allowed 
to stand for an hour, then brought slowly to scalding 
heat and kept there for a short time; it is then 
strained through a coarse sieve, the small bruwu 
flakes being allowed to pass. Season only with salt 
Or, broil a thick, tender steak, cut it in pieces, and 
then with a lemon squeezer press out eveiy particle 
of juice, it may then be diluted and seasoned. 

Mutton broth is made like beef soup but should be 
cooked a longer time. Chicken broth also requires 
more cooking. 



Digitized by 



Cookery for tite Sick. 



139 



Any of thubc soupa may have a little rice or tapioca 
cooked with them. 

Eggs are an important item in the diet of an inva- 
lid, being very nutritious and, if freshy easily diges- 
ted; do not use them at all if uncertain of their age. 

Eggs may be giyen raw ( see page 68 ) or soft-boiled 
(see ])age 59 ) or poached in hot water. An egg may 
be served in many ways and makes always a pretty 
and attractive dish. In cooking, it should never be 
submitted to a high temperature, as that makes the 
white part homy and indigestible. 

A custard made from an egg and a cup of milk and 
a half table spoon of sugar may be given early in a 
couTalesoence. Or use beef soup or chicken broth 
instead of the milk, and flavor with a little salt and 
pepper. These cusLards should be made in a pail set 
in a kettle of boiling water, the custard being stirred 
till it begins to thicken. 

I^ext in order, comes cooked meat. Beef is best 
of all, but let it be juicy and tender and broil or roast 
it, serving it rare. Probably a broiled mutton chop 
ranks next, although chicken, because of its delicate 
llavor will often receive the first choice. An inviilid 
bhuuid not touch pork, and should be given veal or 
lamb only in the form of soup. 

As to fats, the system needs them of coarse, but 
fat meat should not be given, only butter or better 
still, cream. The butter must never be melted and 
soaked into the food, nor made into a sauce. 

As to the vegetable part of the diet, much care 
must be used. In the form of gruel or porridge, it 
is generally very welcome and gives the iiuid part of 



Digitized by Google 



140 



Cookery for the Sich 



the meal in a good form. For Indian meal and oat- 
meal porridge Bee page 12^ Milk may take the place 

ol tlie water. 

Toast is witli good reason considered invalids' food, 
for the process of toasting turns part of the starch of 
the bread into dextrine which is digested with great 
ease. Grains may be also browned or roasted. Boast 
rioe as yon would coffee^ cook as nsnal and eat with 
a little cream. Remember that bread for toast must 
be cut thin and first dried out at a little distance from 
the Are, then brought nearer and browned. You may 
then serve it as dry toast lightly buttertd, or in addi- 
tion to the butter and a little salt^ pour hot water or 
milk on it just before serring. 

Panada of toasted brown bread, white bread or 
orackersy is made by piling the pieces in a bowl, hav- 
ing sprinkled either salt or sugar oyer, and then pour- 
ing over enough boiling water to soak tliem well. It 
bhoiild he kept hot for an hour or more, the pieces then 
lifted out carefully on a hot saucer and served with a 
little cream and perhaps more salt or sugar. Nntm^ 
may be added. 

Bice is also a yeiy Talnable food for use in sickness, 
as it does not tax the most delicate digestion. 

Macaroni is easily digested and of high food value. 
It should be boiled in salted hot water till tender and 
served with a little butter or cream. Or it may be 
added to a custard and lightly baked. 

Barley, thoroughly cooked, is good food for an in- 
valid. Oatmeal must be used with caution until the 
digestion becomes stronger. 

As to yegetables proper, a mealy baked potatoe is 



Digitized by Google 



Cookery for the 8ick, 



141 



perhaps the first to be introduced into the bill of fare; 
remove the inside, mash fine and season with a little 
salt and cream. Beware of potatoes cooked in any 
other way. 

The juice of fmits may be lued early as a flavor in 
drinks, but the pulp must be discarded. A baked 
apple 18 safest to begin with, when the time comes to 

introduce fruit as such into the diet. 

As to the serving, use the best china, silver and 
linen that you have in the house and let exquisite 
neatness never fail. 

fiemember that surprises are delightful to a sick 
person; never let the bill of fare be known before 
hand, and if yon can disguise a well known dish, so 
much the better. Beaten white of egg is a good fairy 
and serves you cheaply. Snowy white or made golden 
brown in the oven, it may top many a dish, conceal- 
ing at one time a custard, at another a mold of chicken 
jelly or even a cup of delicate apple sauce. 

The processes of cooking, if simple, an invalid loves 
to watch and the sight is often a whet to the appetite. 
Bring his gruel to him in the form of mush and thin 
it before his eyes with milk or cream, coddle his egg 
in a stone ware bowl wliiie he eats another course^ 
and by all means make his tea at the bed-side. 




Digitized by Google 



I 



BILLS or FAKE. 



The following bills of fare are made out for a 
family of aiz persons, consisting of a working man^ 
two women, and three children between the ages of 
six and fifteen, the size of the family and the ages 
attained being considered snfficiently near the arerage. 

The amount of food and the proportions^ in Tvliich 
the great food principles are represented approximate 
to what is demanded by standard dietaries for such a 
family. For the man of the family we hare taken, as 
has been said, the one proposed by Professor Atwater 
for an American at ayerage manual labor, for the 
women and children those proposed by Prof. Kdnig. 

The amounts represented by them 

Dietery adopted. 

are • 

Man 125 gms. 125 gms. 400 gms. 

2 women (each) 96 " 48 " 400 ** 

3 children, 6 to lb yra. ^ ^ g^Q « 

(each) . 

Sum total is 646 gms. 353 gms. 22 10 gms. 

Or translated into oz.... 19.19oz. 12.42 oz. 78.03 oz. 

In calculating these amounts we have followed 

almost entirely the analytical tables compiled by Pro! 

Konig. 

M(;it is reckoned without boiie and moderately 

fat, and in nearly all the bills of fare the amount of 

142 



Digitized by Google 



Bills of Fare. 



U3 



proteids enough exceeds that required by the dietary 
adopted so that we can afford this loss. Flour is ol 
medium quality, eggs are reckoned without shell, and 
milk aa weighing 34.4 oz* per qt. 

As to prices^ they are mainly those of Baltimore 
markets, corrected in some cases by those of New York. 
Eggs are reckoned as costing in the spring 18 cts., 
in Fall and Winter 25 cts,, canned fruit is put down 
at the price paid for the fruit in Summer. The cost 
of raw material is given in all cases, bread being 
reckoned at the cost of the flour contained in it. 

In three different seasons^ four days in succession 
are selected, these days being the ones considered most 
trying to the honsekeeper — Saturday, Sunday, Monday 
and Tuesday, and this gives an opportunity to show 
how the food should be planned and cooked ahead. 
It is intended that on Saturday the food for Sunday 
should be cooked as nearly as possible, as the Sunday 
dinner should be a good one but reqniring a minimum 
of labor on that day; the dinner on Monday should 
be such as can be cooked on the back of the store and 
in the oven. 

The recipes will have to be varied a little according 
to advice given in appropriate places as to economy, 
e. g.y substituting beef fat for butter, or adding it 
when skim milk is used instead of whole milk. 

It is intended that each day there shall be a small 
surplus of money for purdiasing seasonings and 
flavors, 

IHTBODUCTIOlir TO BILLS OF FABB, CLASS I. 
(To the Mother of the Family 
In the general introduction the writer has stated a 



Digitized by Google 



144 



Iniradudory LeUer^ 



few principles that should guide us in choosing oar 
food. We hare learned that to keep ub in good health 

and working order we ought to have a certain amoimt 
of what is best furnished by meat, eggs, milk and 
other animal products, and that we must also have 
fats as well as what is giyen us in grains and vegetahles. 

But now our work has only just begun for we are to 
furnish these food principles in the shape of cooked 
dishes to be put on the family table three times a day, 
and the dishes must nut only be nourishing but they 
must taste good, and there must be plenty of variety 
irom day to day; and last — and this is the hardest 
point of all — we are to try to do this for the sum of 
IS cefUs p&r person dailff* 

I am going to consider myself as talking to the 
mother of a family who has six months to feed, and 
no more money than this to do it with. rerhapB this 
woman has never kept accurate accounts and does not 
know whether she spends more or less than this sum. 
She very likely has her " flash " days and her poor " 
days according to the yarying amounts of the family 
earnings, and it may be a comfort to her to know that 
if she oould arenige these days and plan a little bet- 
ter, she can feed her family nicely on this sum. 

A few facts as to \\ hat tlie writer knows to have been 
done in this line will not be amiss. I knew a family 
of 6 belonging to one of the professional classes, half, 
grown people, and half, children, that lived for a 
year on an average of 11 cents per person daily, and 
no one would have said that they did not live well 
enough; they had meat about four days out of the 
seven, there wad always cake on their supper table, 
and they used plenty of fruit. 



Digitized by Google 



IfUroduei&ry L$tier, 145 

Here is an average bill of fare. Breakfast — milk 
toasfcy fried potatoes, coffee; dinner— ^ soup made of 
shank of beef, fried liver, rice and potatoes; supper 

— bread and butter fried muBh, stewed pears and 
cake. Next day there was pressed beef nuide from 
tlie soup meat chopped and llavored, and next day 
there was cheap fisli nicely fried. The head of this 
household was a skillful economist^ absolutely no mis- 
takes were made in cooking, and not a scrap was 
wasted, she had a long list of simple dishes at her 
command and she especially studied variety. "I 
al)andon even a favorite dish for weeks/' she said, 
"if any one tires of it." I give this as a sample of 
what I know to have been done by a highly respect- 
able family in a city of small size in one of our east- 
ern states. 

It must be mentioned that the price on which this 

family lived in comfort could not have been as low as 
it was but for one great help; they had a small gar- 
den that furnished green vegetables and a little fruit. 
But then almost every family has some speciid advan- 
tage that would lower the rate somewhat ; one buys 
butter or fruit advantageously of friends in the coun- 
try, another can buy at wholesale when certain staples 
are cheapest, still another may be able to keep a few 
fovvls, and so on. Numerous instances could be 
brought to prove that the food for a family can be pur- 
cliased in a raw condition for the sum per head for 
which we have undertaken to buy it^ and that by skill 
in cooking, flavoring and giving right Tariety^ a health- 
ful and very acceptable diet can be furnished^ though 
it cannot^ of course^ contain luxuries. 



Digitized by Google 



146 



Itmi mi tTtmsiU Bequii'eeL 



Another thing, when I speak of a woman who is to 

buy the food of a family for 13 cents apiece daily, 
I have in mind ilie wife of a man who earns this aum 
himself, the wife having her time to attend to the 
housework and children* If a woman helps earn, as 
in a factory^ doing most of her housework after she 
comes home at night, she must certainly have more 
money than in the first case in order to accomplish 
the same resnlt, for she must buy her bread already 
baked and cau only cook those ditihea thai lake the 
least time. 

I shall take for granted that you have the kitchen 
utensils described on page 20; if not, buy them, be- 
cause, you cannot afford to do without them. J^ood 
is Tory ezpensiye compared with pots and pans ; you 
must not spoil food for lack of the right things to 
cook it in. 

I only ask you in advance to try the recipes I shall 
give and to try to lay aside your prejudices against 
dishes to which you are not accustomed, as soups and 
cheese dishes for instance. You cannot afford to 
reject anything that will yaiy your diet, for many 
good tasting things you cannot buy. 

I know it is hard for a busy woman to giye to her 
cooking a bit more time tlian will "just do," but if 
you make it a rule to determine the night beforehand 
just what you will cook on the following day, no mat- 
ter how simple the food may be, you will gain this 
result; with the materials at your disposal you will 
put before your family much better food, and they 
will call you a good cook and think that no family 
mad live better than they; and thi6 impit^fiaiuu will be 



Digitized by Google 



Buying of Meat, 



made principally from your having the right yariety. 

Let us uiidorsfcaud, to begin with, that it is your 
business in life just now to conquer this food question 
as it affects your family. Just as the business man 
most watch the market and take advantage of a half 
cent a ponnd on an article^ that he may saooefisfally 
compete with his neighbor^ so yon mnst he on the 
alert to nse every possible advantage. It is a stmggle 
in which energy and calculation will tell for a great 
deal, and you will have solid enjoyment in every point 
that you gain. 

In buying meat your saving cannot be so much in 
quantity aa in qualify. Try to leam the different parts 
of an animal^ and to distingnish between meat from a 
fat ox and that from a lean one, for, as we have explain- 
ed, the former has less water in it, and why should you 
pay good money for that which nature gives you free ? 
In winter, try to buy meat ahead so that you can 
make it tender by keeping it^ and you will notice, too, 
that the larger the piece yon buy the smaller ia the 
per cent of hone you get with it* The per cent of 
bone in the whole animal, as in the case of an ox, is 
not more than 10 or 11 per cent, but the buyer of a 
small piece of meat often gets twice that proportion. 
As we have said again and again in these pages, the 
low-priced or tougher parts have as much nutriment 
for yon as the rib roast which is beyond yonr pnrse. 
Choose often the &t middle lib and cook it long 
and slowly ; buy the neck and scrag of mntton, and 
make a stew with vegetables ; buy half a calf's head, 
and see what a line soup you can make of it. Have 
beef's liver now and then, and tripe, rather than put 



Digitized by Google 



Cfra4n8 and Ve^eMles, 



your money into aansage of donbtfnl quality. By ail 
means bay fish when it is cheap^ catfisb, for instance^ 

which are excellent fried. Keep enet always on hand 
and use instead of batter, as lias been directed. 

NO one need tell you how valuable Bait pork and 
bacon are for you, — the only danger is that yon will 
use too much of them. 

In buying eggs^ you must be gOYemed by the 
price; in winter use as few as possible, and even in 
the spring when they are cheapest, remember that 
they are not as cheap as the lowest priced cuts of 
meat from fat animals. But when they cost only 
15 cents a dozen you can well disregard any small 
comparison of nutritive valuesy in consideration of 
their high worth in furnishing variety; yon can 
afford to use them now and then in the place of meat 
and in making the various egg dishes. 

Of the value of cheese as a regular dish to take the 
place of meat, you can read iu another part of this 
essay. Buy it once a week at least, the skim variety, 
if you cannot alford the others, and grate or cook it 
according to the recipes given. 

Try to find a reliable milkman and buy skim milk 
at half the price of full, and use it for all cooking pur* 
poses, keeping full milk, and, if possible, a litde of 
the cream, for coffee. 

Now let us take the vegetable part of your diet. 

You must keep on hand every kind of 
f!onr and grain that is not too expen- 
sive ; be thankful that wheat flour is so good and 80 
cheap, it will be yonr best friend. If yon are not 
already skillful in osing it in bread and otiier doughs, 




Digitized by Google 



Flavorings 



149 



jou will waste your materials and make mistakes at 
firsty bat there is notldiig for you but to become mis- 
tress of this department of cookery. Use bread freely 

in all the hn^'dd dishes, learn how to make every one. 
You will use buckwheat for cakes, rice for puddings, 
barley iii soups, oatmeal and corumeai for musbeSi and 
you must learn to use them all in as many ways as possi- 
ble. The grains are cheaper foods for us than Tegeta- 
bles, although dried peas, beans and lentils follow hard 
upon them. Eyen the potato, which may be called 
our favorite Tege table, is more expensive than wheat 
flour, if we are talking only of food values. 

Exce])t in the height of their season, have noth- 
ing to do with green yegetables, at least not under 
the impression that they are cheap; if yon buy them, 
know that you are paying for flavors and variety, 
rather than for food. Bnt even in the early spring, 
buy plenty of such vegetables as onions, carrots, pars- 
ley and other green herbs for your soupa and stews. 
When you go for a walk in the country, be sure to 
bring home mint and sorrel in your pocket ; the for- 
mer will make yon a nice meat sance^ the latter a 
delightfnl flavor in soup. It will be perfectly easy 
for you to grow in a window box that delicious herb, 
parsley, and have it always fresh. 

For a low purse, there is no help so great as a 
knowledge of flavorings. When we remember that 
we can live on bread, beans, peas and a little cheap 
meat and fat the year round If we can only make it 
^'go down,** we shall realize the importance of such 
additions as rouse the appetite; there is room here for 
all your skill and all your invention. Always make a 



Digitized by Google 



160 BiUs of Fare. 

cheap but nutritious dish inviting in appearance; es- 
pecially dues this iniiuencc tlie appetites of children 
who are delighted with a very plain cake if only a few 
raisins or some sngar appear on the top. 

The Bilk of Fare on pages 146 to 158^ where 78 cents 
ooTers the cost of food for a family of 6 per day^ and 
where the amount of food is carefully weighed and esti- 
mated, is meant only to suggest to you how in a few 
cases your food problem can be solved. You can, no 
doubt, spend the money in ways that will better suit 
the tastes of your family, but I beg you to exam- 
ine anew yonr favorite dishes to see if they are as 
nntritions as they should be for their price. Remem- 
ber that the Proteld colnmn is the one that you mnst 
look to most carefullv because it is furnished at the 
most expense, and it is very important that it should 
not fall below the figures 1 have given. If, for in- 
stance, you should economize in meat in order to bay 
cake and pastry, this colnmn would suffer at the ex- 
pense of the other two and jour family would be 
under nouriabed. 



Digitized by Google 



Bilk of Fare, Ciasa 1. 151 



BILLS OF FARE, CLASS I. 



For family of six, avera^ price 78 cents per day, or 18 cents 
per person. 

Satubdat, Mat. 

Bredkfcut. Dimier. 
Flour Pancakes, Bread Soup (p. 20). 

(p.lOfl)with Sugar Syrup. Beef neck Stew 

QoXb&t. Noodles (p. 90>. 

Swelled Rice Pudding (p. 107). 

Supper, 

Browned Flour Soup, with Fried Bread (p, 121). 
ToMi and Cheese (page 6d, l(o. 1). 



OS. Cents. 

\i lb. Rloe ^ JOB 0.12 4 

llb.Snpar .... ]A,«S 7 

M lb.Fat Cheese 3.00 3.48 M UH 

8 qts. Skim Milk 2.12 .48 &80 8 

8Ib.Fk>ur 8.34 .48 UM 8 

^qt. Whole mik Ji8 .62 J8 3^ 

SEffjrs 84 .38 .... 3 

lbs. Beef neck 8.40 2.20 .... 20 

9^ Ih. 8uo( •••••• •••• 8»8B 8 

Ooffoo... ••••«. ........ - — .... 3 J 

9illis.Bresd 8^ j» M8 8^ 

Total 22.28 1S.8B 7T.85 771 

fieqnlnd , 18.19 ]M 98.« 19 



Digitized by doogle 



16% Bills of Fare, Clans J. 



BuKDAT, Mat. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 
JkUlk Toast Stuffed Beef's Heart (p. 48). 

Coffee. Potatoes stewed 

■with Milk. 
Dried Apple Pie (p. 108). 
Bread and Cheese. 
Com Colfee (p. 185). 

Supper, 

Koodle Soup (from Saturday, p. 91). 
Broiled Herring. 
Bread. 
Tea. 

ProteiOa. Fate. hjStol. ^ 

Cents. 

HtoH- of Fat Ox J 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 M 3;5.22 9^ 

f(Ilk Sugar U.88 6 

iQt Skim Milk 1.06 JM 1.66 4 

mb. Dried Apples 10 .... 4.50 « 

IJiib. Flour 2.88 .86 17.16 4J6 

U Smoked Herrfnffd pound). &a6 Ltt . 10 

)4n».suet 9jn t 

5 lbs. Potatoes .61 .... 6.66 m 

H lb. Butter 3.83 . 6^ 

H lb. Skim Cheese 2.40 1.07 40 4 

^]?6a ............................. .... .... .... 2 

>6 lb. Coffee .... .... 3| 

Iqt. Whole MUk 1.16 1J» 1.66 7 

Total. 2LaO UM . TtIoS tS" 

fioquired.........«. 12.42 78.06 76 



Digitized by Google 



BUla of Fcare, Ciass 1. 



153 



BreakfaH, 
Oatmeal Huali, with 
WXk and Sugar. 

Bread. 
Coffee. 



HomitAT, Hat. 



Dinner. 
Fm Soup (Ik 117). 
Mutton Stew (p. 63). 
Boiled Potatoei. 
Btead. 



Bread Pancakea (p. 98). 
Fried Bacon. 
Tea. 

Proteidfl. Fats. 



2Egll8 .8ft 

% lb. Oatmeal 1,7ft 

% 111. Coffee 

% lb. Sugar 

IH qt«. Skim Milk 1.60 

MltKBaoon M 

4 lbs. Potatoes 1,28 

t lbs. Broud 8.8ft 

1 qt. Whole Milk LM 

3 lbs. Shoulder of Mutton aiB 

1 lb. Peas. Dried 8.eB 

M lb. Flour 98 

Total, all 

B«q«l«d 18.18 



J8 



.as 

8J0 

.33 
L2ft 

.88 
.18 

1&88 
18.48 



Carbo- 
(lydniteB. 

OS. 

7^88 

7.90 
LftS 

13.24 

1.66 

• • 

8L88 

6.72 

mM 

98.08 



Cost 

in 

Ccnta. 
8 

at 

6 
8 

6 

^ 

7 

21 

6 

J« 
77JI 



* 



Digitized by Google 



154 



of Fare, Class /. 



TuflfiDAY, Hat. 

BreiikfiMt. Dinner. 

Oatmeal Mush and Milk. Fried Catfish 

Buttered Toast. with Mint Sauce (p. 78). 

Ckkffee. Fried Potatoes. 

Bread. 

Fried FkAxm Puddiog (p. 107). 
Bn^led Sail Fork. 



Tea. 

Proteids, Fate. ^^grb^ Coet 

oz.oz.oz. Gents, 

lib. Oatmeal M» -W 10.40 5 

Iqt. Whole MUk 1.16 1.23 l.ftS 7 

Iqt. Skim Milk. 1.06 .24 L65 4 

aj^ lbs. Catfish 7.00 .20 .... 17J< 

mnM-Vtuitat 8.50 ... IflJS m 

2eggs 34 .32 ... 3 

^lbs.Br«ad iM J» SBM IQ^ 

Coffee . - J# 

2 lbs. Potatoes .M .... 0.61 9< 

9< lb. Bait Pork M 8.00 7H 

^ lb. Butter l.«r .... 

M lb. Sugar .... 3.96 VH 

Tea .... .... 2 



Total m»4 12.98 79.86 74| 

Bequirod 19.19 ^4S6 78.i» 98 



Digitized by Google 



BilU Fare, Class L 



155 



Satdbdat* Siptkicbbb. 

Bnaifiui, Dinner, 

Soda Biscuit, Pea Soup (p. 117) 

Baked Potatoes with Irish Stew, 

Drawn Butter Sauce. Bread. 
Goooa. 

OUppCr, 

Corn Mush and Molasses. 
Bread and Grated Cheese. 
Tea, 

ProteidB. Fats. ^^^^^ 

oz.oz.oz. Cents. 

Ub. Dried Peas 3.68 J0 8.32 5 

SltM.8onfrof MttttOD iM IM .... 16 

8 lbs. Potatoes M 9M m 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 JM 24.90 o/j 

2 lbs. Corumeal 8.U M 19.60 6 

H lb. Sugar aw 194 

H lb. Fat Cheese LOO IM M 9fi 

1 qt. Whole MUk 1.16 1J33 L66 7 

^Ib. Buttei &88 6f*i, 

lyi lbs.. Flour 2.88 M 17.16 «9i 

14 lb. Suet &» S 

H lb. Molasses &48 SH 

Cocoa Shells , 2 

Tea .... 2 

Total 21.14 13,78 SriS 71Ji 

Be<|Uirea W.l» iJJ.4a 78.08 78 



Digitized by Google 



156 



BiUs of Fare, Class L 



fiUNDAT, 8KPTEMBKB. 

Breakfast. Dinner. 
Oatmeal and Milk. Broiled Beefs Liver 

Bread and Butter. Boiled Potatoes nnd Carrots 
Cocoa. with Fried Onions (p. 116). 

Bread and Cheese. 

Affipw*. 

Lentil Soup with Fried Bread (p. 118). 
Smoked HerriDg. 
Bread. Barley Porridge (p. 123). 

Proteid.. I^te. ^Uf 

oz. M. OS. Gentfi. 

lbs. Beefs Uver 4.aO .96 15 

81lM.Potatoe« .M .... HlM 9i 

lib. Carrots .... 1.M IH 

lbs. Oat meal L44 15.00 IH 

H lb. Lentils 2.04 .W 4.88 5 

mqt Whole Milk 1.74 1.85 9M ICM 

Mlt-Susar 1M m 

^ lb. Pearl Barley M .06 S 

H lb. Suet &90 --- 9 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 .88 33.20 H 

eSmofced Herrioff (SoSi) IM M 5 

^ lb. Butter 9M «M 

M lb. Fat Cheeae 1.00 1J« Bfi 

Cocoa SheUs .... .... 9 

Total. 19.96 1&88 77.TO Tfti^o 

Bequited 19.19 tSU» 98.06 76 



Digitized by Google 



Bilk of Far9y Ola$B L 



157 



Moin>4T, Sbpti 

Breatf^B^, JHnmr, 

Buckwheat Cakee. OLblet Soup (p. 58). 

Fried Baison. Baked FMatoes with 

Golfee. Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Bread. 

Sttpper, 

Codfish Bdla (p. 87). 
Cheese. 
Bread. Tea. 

Proteids. Fat^. ^^rho^ CM 



oz. oz. oz. 

2 Itw. Buekwbeat Vloor SM M 28180 10 

Giblets 2^ J2 8 

3 \\m. Potatoes 96 .... 9M m 

941t). IJacoo .88 9.00 .... 9 

4^ lbs. Bread 4JS J6 87Jft lOi^ 

mb.sug:ar 7M m 

Hlh.TntChf^m 3. 2.4ft JM U14 

1 lb. Salt Codttah 4.80 .16 .... 8 

^^sa 2 

1 qt. Whoie MUk'.^VJ,^^^^^^^^ U6 xH '{» T 

Hlh.Go0Qe 8| 

Total 19.84 16.60 80.41 7^4 

BequlNd 12.19 12L42 78 




Digitized by Google 



158 SiU$ of I\ar9, OUmb L 



Tuesday, Skptbxbbb. 

Snakfatt. Dkmn^, 

Fried Bacon. Boiled Coriiiid Beef 

Boiled Potatoes. with Horseradish Sauce. 

Bread. Coffee. Btewed Cabbage. 

Bretd. 
Barl^ Porridge (p. 122). 

Supper. 

Pea Boup. 
Teait Biscuit and Butter. 
Stewed Fruit. 

Protelds. Fata. ^^ff^k. ^ 

oz. oz. oz. Cents. 

m Ilia. Oorn Beef 9M LM .... U 

31b8. Cabbege 80 .... 2. 6 

2 I! 3. Flour . . 3.84 M 22.88 6 

2 lbs. Potatoes W .... (keS 

1 lb. Dried Peas 3.68 J» 809 6 

j9ilt». Bread 8J6 M 29.06 8i^ 

M lb. Bacon U 6.40 .... 6 

M lb. Butter 3.33 .... ^ 

J6 lb. Suet 1.96 .... 1 

M lb. Pearl Barley .88 .19 4 

Iqt. Skim Milk 1.06 1.6ft 4 

Ipt. Whole Milk- J» .88 J8 ^ 

^ lb. Coffee .... . 3 A 

Kit. Sugar 7.« m 

Fruit 8 

Total 22.04 lo.2» 8a. 77i 

Bequtied 18.18 ISSMt 98X8 78 



Digitized by Google 



Silk of Fare, Class L 159 



Satubdat, Januabt. 

Bnaiifati, Dinner, 

Fried BacoD. Browned Flour Soup (p.l81). 

Com Biead (p. 108). Stewed Mutton. 

Ooffee. Hashed Potatoes. 

Biead. 

Supper. 

Baked Beans. Bread. 

Apple Dumplingp (p. 108), 
with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 
Tea. 



Pvotelds. VMi. 



Carlo- Cost 

hydrat«g. in 

OS. Oonts. 

8 lbs. Neck of Mutton 8.16 9.88 .... 24 

3 lbs. Potatoes 98 .... 9.94 8p| 

41be. Bread 8.84 Jast aaao 4 

nil. Hour IM M 11.44 8 

81te.OonillMl : 3.14 IM 22.40 6 

1 lb. Beans 8M M BM $ 

^ lb. Sugar .... T.flB SM 

yiih.Baoon JU 8.44 tt 

M lb. Suet 1.M .... 1 

lb. Coffee — Sf 

1 qt. Whole Milk l.M 1.23 1^ 7 

Apples — 8 

Tea «^ 8 

Total 2&.10 14J» 96.11 iiT 

Bequired 18.18 18.48 m08 IB 



Digitized by Google 



160 



BiUa of Far$j Olaas L 



Sunday, January. 

Break/ad. Dinner. 

Fried Codfish. Sheep's Head Stew 

firoftd and Butter. with Soda Biscuil Dumplings. 

Coffee. Raked Pf>tntof'8. 

Bread and Grated Cheese. 
Cocoa. 

Potato and Onion Salad. 
Broiled 8alt Pork. Bread. 
Cora Mush with Pudding Sauce (p. 112). 

OS. oz. oz. Cents. 

2 lbs. Corn Meai 3.U 1J» 22.40 0 

1 qt. Skim Milk 1.06 M 1.65 4 

Ipt Whole Milk SB <«i .83 9< 

Mlb.Su«ar .... 7.02 

3 lbs. Bread 2.88 JM «i*o 

I lb. Salt Codfish 4.80 .... 8 

M)h. Butter .... 1«W 

J4 lb. Skim Cbeeee 1.20 JBA .20 2 

ilba. Totntoos 1.28 .. 13Ji6 5. 

M lb. Salt Pork 12 3.20 .... 3 

M lb. Suet 3.88 .... 2 

II lb. flour IM .18 aii6 214 

I Shwp's ITottd, assumed to 

contain lbs. meat 1.44 .... 1'^ 

Ouimia .... 2 

Ooooa Sbella 2 

coffee .... .... 3| 

TotiQ iji isia 7wi tT" 

Beqiiired i 19.19 12.42 78jOB 78 



Digitized by Google 



BiUs of Fare, Class L 



161 



MoKDAY, January. 
Breakfast. Dinner. 

Fried Mush and Molaaaes. Soup (from Boiled Beef) 

Bread. with MacaroDi. 

Coffee. Boiled Beef Flank 

with Mustaiti Sauce, 
Bean Puree. 
Bread. 

Supper, 

Boiled Potatoea with 
Butter Gravy. 
Dried Apple Rely Poly Pudding (p. 108). 
Bread. Tea. 



Protelds Vafg 

OK. OZ. 



Carbo- Cott 
hydrates in 
OS. C'ciiU 



2 lb. Boef Flank «- fi.72 1.76 id 

lib. Beans 3.68 .ast 8.56 5 

H lb. Dried Apples, 10 4J» 6 

2 lbs. Potatoes M .... 

2 Jb8. Corn Meal 8.14 1:1^ 22.40 6 

IJi lbs. Flour 2.88 M 17.16 4^ 

Hll>. Butter 3.33 .... 6J4 

M lb. Suet att .... t 

^Ib.Molaaaea .... 2.^ 2^ 

H lb. Sugar .... 7.92 3^ 

31b8. bread 2.88 M 24.90 (UL 

Iqt. Whole MUk U8 1J» IM 7 

H lb. ColEee .... — 3| 

Tea 2 

H lb. Macaroni 86 .08 3.06 

Total 21. S6 12.38 09Ji6 TJJL 

Required 19.19 12.42 78.0S 98 

14 



Digitized by Google 



16^ Bilis of Fare, Class L 



TuBSDAT, January. 
BreaJcfoBt. Dinner. 

Fried Potatoca. Browned Farina Soup with 

Ereiui. Toast (p. 121). 

Coffee. Btew( d Mutton, -with 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Bean Soup. 
Milk Toast. 
Tea. 

Proteids Eate ^^^^ ^ 

smbfl. Mtitton ftJO 2.40 — 20 

Iqt. Skim Milk 1.06 3i l.« 4 

1^ lbs. Beans 6.52 .48 12.84 7^ 

lb. Butter 3.33 .... 6^ 

% lb. Suet T.84 .... 4 

H lb. Sugar — T.92 

31bs. ■PntntoCS ; 96 ---- 4^ 

1>^ lbs. Flour 2.88 .36 17.16 4>i 

1 qt. Whole MUk 1.16 1.28 !.« 7 

Slbs. Bread » 'A 

J41l>. Farina — 

%lh Coffee - 

Tea — - 

Total 2L68 18.13 79.09 75 

Bequirii.","*" 191» W,® W 



Digitized by Google 



BUk 0/ Fare, Cflasa IL 



16a 



BILLS OF FAKE, CLASS IL 



For family of six. Average price per day, or 18 cts. 
per person. 

The bills of fare in this class will not be given in detail. 
Taking those given for Class I as « basis, it is expected tbat 
certain luxuries will be added and a better quality of food 
used; the quantities of Fvoteid, Fat and Carbohydrate will 
then not beloweied, which is the point of greatest importance. 



Digitized by Google 



164 



BiUa of Fare, dim IIL 



BILLS OF FAB£» GLASS IIL 



For family of rix. Averago price, $L88 per day, « 
centaperpenon. 

BATiniDAT, Mat. 

OrangeB. Beef Soup wifh 

Egg Omdet on Egg Sponge (p. 1 28). 

I^oast. Maearoni witli Oheese (p. 90). 

Boiled Bice wltli Dandelion Greena. 

Milk and Sugar. Bread. 
Coffee. 

Supper, 

Sour Cream Soup (p. 124). 
Meat Croquettes (of soup meat) (p. 49). 
Graham Bread and Butter. 
Tea. Cake. 

Froteids P^ts u&SSL ^?^^ 

oz 02. ajOTWi m 

01. Oeott 

lib. Rice 1^ iaj54 s 

)l(ib. Sugar ^ 

6 Oranges 

9i lb. Macaroni i.08 .... 9.I8 UM 

4Ib6.Bread 3,84 J88 33.«2 

S lbs. Flour 8.84 .48 22.88 8 

Mlb. Coffee . .... 3I 

2 qts. Whole Milk.-/.'.".Iiy.V.I V.» 2*46 ijD U 

ioi;gg8 1.T0 L60 16 

lbs. Meat 8.40 2» 20 

9ilb.Batt)er 9.88 .... 18% 

^ lb. Fat Cheese 8.80 8J8 je "(^ 

Sour Cream and flavors tot 

soup .... 8 

Tea .... 3 

Total jj4.4b ly.oa 88.90 

Bequlred 18.18 1&48 98X8 188 



Digitized by Google 



BiUs of Fare, CIqh III. 



165 



Sunsi^T, Hat. 

Breaikfcui, 

Oatmeal Mush with sugar 
aod milk. 
Bread aod Butter, 
Oolbe. 



Dinner. 

Uaoi and Eggs. 
Salad of Cold Beans and 
Lettuce 
RhulMrbFle. 
Cocoa. 
Bread. 



• Supp&r. 

Bice Pancakes (p. 93), with 
Sugar Syrup. 
Stewed Potatoes. 
Tea. 



ProteidS VttM 

oz. oz. 

H lb. Oatmeal... 1.74 0.72 

H lb. Coffee 

1 lb. Sugar .... 

2 Qt.s. Whole MUk ZM 

941b. Butter 9.99 

lib. Ham . 3.84 6.84 

M lb. Suet IM 

IS Eggs S.<M IM 

Cocoa 

3 lbs. Potatoes-- .W 

4 lbs. Bread 3.84 .» 

\i lb.Lettaoe ao 

1 lb. Deans 8.68 M 

Rhubarb 

H lb. Rice 81 .88 

m lbs. Flour M 

Tea .... 

Salad Dressing — .............. .... 

Total ffl!o4 »!57 

fiequired 19.18 18.48 



OarlKi- 
hydraties 

oz. 

7.80 

18.84 
8J0 



9.94 
33.20 
M 
8J6 

6.12 
17.18 



102.11 
78.08 



Cost 
In 
Cents. 

% 

T 

u 

1^ 
88 
1 
18 

4 

8« 

»i 

8 

8 

4 

4 

8 
8 

liT 

188 



Digitized by Google 



166 



Bilk of FttTB^ ClasB IIL 



4 



iiQHDAS, Mat. 
Brealtfati, Dinner. 

Oranges. Roast Mutton and Bread 

Milk Toast Dressing (p. 106). 

Goifee. Mashed Potatoes. 

Com Mu?h with 8ugar 

and INIilk. 
Soda Cream (p. 186). 

Parsnip Soup (p. 119), with Yeast Dumplings (p. 138). 

Bread aud butter. 
Sponge C&ke. Tea. 

^nSr OK hydrates In 

oz. Gents 

^ lbs. Bread 8.96 .28 29.0S 

8 lbs. Mutton 8.16 2.88 .... 48 

Sqts. Whole MUk ZM ZJBO U 

m lbs. Sugar — S3.76 lOM 

lib. Flour l.«8 .34 U.44 8 

H lb. Butter 6.66 12^ 

^ lb. Coffee — ........ — .... .... sf 

6 Oranges .... .... 10 

2ib.0bRimeal 8.U 1.20 VLm 6 

4 Eggs 68 .64 .... 6 

3 lbs. Potatoes 96 .... 8.94 9i 

■K^ea .................. ........ .... ---- S 

Soda Crs&niaa.... S 

Parsoips — .... 6 

Total 90M 14.36 Jwiw 1!^ 

Bequired 19.19 12.42 78.08 138 



I 

• 



Digitized by Google 



Bills of Fare, CUm III. m 



TrasDAT, Hat. 

Bnakfaat, JMniw. 

Buttered ToMt 8(«ral Boup (p. 120.) 

Coffee. Fried Gatflsh. 

Caimed IMt Noodles (p. 90.) 

Bread. 

Swelled Bice Podding (p. 107). 

Fried Mtuh. 
Stewed Bhubarb. 
Freeh Buaka and Butter (p. 06). 
Tea. 

Protelds. Fata. ^^Jf^. ^ 

oz. oz. oz. Geota. 

Oanned Frnlt . .... 16 

2 lb8. Corn Meal 3.14 1.20 MM 6 

8 lbs. Bread 2.88 .24 24.fln fr^ 

1^ qts. Whole Milk 1.74 l.m &da 10^ 

24ts.BUmlfllk W .48 8.88 8 

Bhubarb 8 

3 ITjs. Flour &8i .48 »M 8 

lib. Butter 13.88 .... S8 

Kn>.8ugiur 7.80 m 

Sorrel &c. for Soup .... 6 

«lb. RkK; .08 tJ9 4 

H lb. Suet a93 .... 2 

3 lbs. Fresh Flail 8.00 M .... 18 

M lb. Com .... 8f 

41^*?f?8 M .84 8 

Total 28.04 28.47 9002 129JL 

BtMiuirea lBil8 12.48 78.08 138 



Digitized by Google 



4 



168 



BiOa of Hm, Ch$$ III. 



Brea/^att 

Hominy Mush with 
Sugar Syrup 

Stcvrcd Pears. 
Toasted Crackera. 
Cofte«. 



Dinner, 

Plum Soup (p. 125). 

Broiled Beef Steak. 
Boiled Green Corn. 
Turnips and Potatoes (p* 116). 
Bread. 
Apple Pie (p. 109). 

Bupper, 



liiOk Stsw (p. S8). 
Biseiiit ind Butter. 
DoagliiiiilaCp. 00). 
Tea. 



Proteida. 



lib. Hominy 10 

Pears and Plums 

2 lb6. Bread 1.W 

H Ih, CrackexB JiO 

Sits. Beef Steak 0.72 

1 doz. Green Com 

2 lbs. Potatoes .64 

Apples .... 

1 lb. Turnips JL5 

3 Iba. Flour &M 

nib. Suet 

1 lb. Mutton 2.72 

^ lb. Butter .................... 

SBggS M 

Tea ." 

1 lb. Sugar 

Iqt. Whole Milk 1.16 

H lb. Coffee 

Total £m 

Bequlred 19.19 





Carbo- 


Ckmt 


Fats. 


hydrates. 


in 


OS. 


0& 


Oents. 




lUD 




.16 


16.60 


6 

4 






ft 


in 




» 






IS 




6.82 


«l 






4 






OA 


.64 




9 


IM 




1 


M 




8 


9J» 






M 














15.84 


f 




1.66 








ol 


mi 




188^ 
188 







Digitized by Google 



Bills of Fare^ Claas IIL 169 



SinniAT, Sbftucbbb. 

Breakfaai. Dinner, 

Sour Milk Pancakes with Green Corn Soup (p. 130), 

Sugar Syrup (p. 103). Fricaseed Chicken ( p. 67). 

Saiienge. Bread. Potatoes and Carrots (p. 11^. 
Cucumbers. with Fried Onions. 

Coffee. Bread. 

Suipper, 

Fried Farina Pudding (p. lOa 
Water Toast. 
Radishes. 
Tea. 

PMUM» IW*. Off* 

OS. Ctents. 



Rfi<1iphe8 8 

lib. SauMge 2.88 6.00 M 

J4 lb. Sugar .... %M 534 

IHqta. Whole IfUk L7i V» %M VM 

3 1bs. Brf'Ed tM M tiM ftA 

H <ioz. Green Corn .... 7)i 

An Old Chicken (3 lbs.) 9.00 L90 .... 80 

811m. Potatoes U» tM 2^ 

Mlh.OKrrots «... •••• .78 1 

^-^^ c*tirn^)cr3 «^ ■ «««« 2 

mib. Flour 8.8B JIB 1746 4M 

H lb. Farina M 6jOO ^ 

Mlb-Butter 8JHI 9^ 

1 qt Sour Milk 1X6 JM 166 4 

Coffee.... ...................... . .... .... 8^ 

^Fcft — ......... — — — ...... .... .... .... 8 

8BB8a J8 4i 

Total 8L66 Uii eoitii tf7| 

Beqinlzed 18J» 18.18 1M — 

15 



Digitized by Google 



170 



BiUs of Fare, Class IJL 



Mqhdat, Seftbubbb. 



Codfish Balls. 
Bread aod Butter. 
Coffee. 
Stewed AppleB. 



Roast Beef. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Slewed Tomaitoea. 
Lemonade. 
Bread. 



Bupper, 



Berry Roly Poly (p. 108). 
Cheese. 
Bread and Butter. 
Tea. 



Fioteids. 

OZ. 

H lb. Codfish 3.60 

4 lbs. Potatoes U» 

81ba.Bread ZM 

H lb. Butter 

2qt9. wholelfUk »J» 

1 lb. Sugar 

^ lbs. Beef. &4D 

3 lbs. Tomatoes 

Lemons.- 

m lb. Flour 3.88 

M lb. Fat Cheese 2.00 

H lb. Coffee 

Tea 

Fruit 

Total 24.36 

Bequlred 



OS. 



0.90 



.86 



Oarbo- 
hydratsB. 

OS. 

13.^ 
UM 

8.80 

4.00 

17.16 
.18 



17.57 
12.4S 



78.68 
78.08 



Cost 
In 
Oeola. 

6 

•A 

m 

14 

7 
40 

6 

7 

8 

10 

137 
1S8 



Digitized by Google 



Bills of Fare, Clasa III. lit 



TUBSDAT, BfiPTEMBER. 

BMokfad. Dinner. 

Broiled Mackerel. Sour Cream Soup (p. 124X 

Stewed Potatoes. Boast Mutton 

Bread and Butter. with Bread Stuffing. 

OoiiKee. Boiled Beets. 

Bread Pudding (p. Ill, No. 2). 

8upptr, 

Apple Frittm<p. 114), 
with Sugar Syrup. 
Bread and Butter. 
Tea. 

Proteids. Blata. h^j^. ^ 
01. ox. OeDts. 



IH lbs. floor 8.88 M 17M 4H 

ABggs 68 .64 at 

2qt^ whoieMUk JUS 3.30 U 

lib. Sutcnr 15.84 7 

J6 lb. Suet 1416 1 

9< lbs. Mutton «.80 8.40 40 

21bB. Beets .... SilO 6 

Ib^'. Suit Mackerel i.66 &00 W 

IH lbs. Potatoes M iM if^ 

41tis. Bread a.84 JO OBJO 0| 

Mlb. Butter M JSH 

J^lb.Cotlt>e .... .... .... 0| 

Tea .... .... 8 



Total ZLM 1T.80 79.46 IS^il 

Bequired lOJO 18.48 78.03 188 



Digitized by Google 



172 £iUs 0/ Fare, Clou 111. 



Satttbdat, January. 
BreakfMt. Dinner. 

Buckwheat Cakes and Roast Fresh Pork, with 

Sugar Syrup. Apple Sauce. 

Bread and Butter. Mashed Potatoes. 

OoiEee. Indian Pudding (p. 110). 

Biead. 

Herring and Potato Salad. 
Iientils, with Primag (p. 116). 
Bread and Butter. 
Tea. 



Proteids. 

01. 

2 IT a. fhiefcwbeat Floar. 3.04 JM 

IH Cora Meai 2.28 Sfi 

lib. Butter laLn 

liltKSusar 

Iqt. Whole imk LU L» 

Apples 

^ Ibfl. Fresh Pork 8.00 :i.«0 

8 lbs. Potatoes .W •••• 

2Eirgr8 - 34 JHI 

1 qt. Skim Milk Lift M 

3 lbs. Bread %J» JM 

Xlb.Lontlls t4M * ae 

K lb. Prunes 15 .... 

% lb. Coffee .... 

Ten - .... 

6 liernugs 1.68 j6S 



Total 1AM aatt 

BegnM 



Carbo- 


Cost 


hydiat€8. 


In 


oz. 


Centa 


23J30 


10 


lft.80 




• ••• 

1L88 


» 


UK 




•••• 








les 








4tt 




&80 




.... 

.... 


4 




1^ 



Digitized by Google 



Bm of Fare, Class IIL 173 



Breakfast. Dinner. 
Milk Toast. Cold RoaiiL Pork, 

Fried Potato€a. Noodles (p. 90). 

Coffee. Stewed Cabbage. 

Bread. 

Swelled Bloe PuddiDg (p. 107). 
Oorn Cofliee (p. 185). 

Bupptr, 

Poteto Scrap (p. 118). Grated Oheeee. 
Bread aod batter. 
Belaed Cake (p. 96). Canned Fhiit 
Tea. 

Proteids Fats 



KlbblMObeeae \M M 

4]l».Potatoes 1.28 

^ibf'. Flour Mi 48 

4 Egg-8 88 .84 

2 qto. Whole Milk 2.33 8.4B 

lat^BUmMllk 1.08 .84 

H lb. Butter 9M 

1 lb. Sugar — 

2 lbs. Freeh Pork 6,40 2Ji4 

8 lbs. Oabbagv 88 .... 

H lb. Rice.. 04 M 

8 lbs. B mid 2M JSi 

Ck)ru ( dry grain ) - 

Cannod Fruit.. ...... .......... .... .... 

HVth Cattee 

Tea 

Total 20.98 lT5 

fiequked 1808 IS^a 



Carbo- 


Ck)st 


hydrates. 


in 


oz. 


Oonts 


M 


3H 


18JS4 


5 




fi 






8.30 


14 


IM 


4 




m 


15.48 






8D 


L80 


8 


6.12 


4 


84.90 


•A 




8 


mmmm 


10 




8| 




2 




1^ 
188 


njQB 



Digitized by GoQgle 



174 



Bills of Fare, Clans IIL 



BnakfiUt, 
Buckwheat GakaB, 

Coffee. 
Apple Since. 



MOHXIAT, JaNUABT. 

Fto8oap(p.ll8). 

RoBst Beef. 
Baked Potatoes. 

Canned Tomatoes. 
Barley Gruel (p. m)w 

Supper. 



Potato Bonp with EIgs and BieadBaUB (p. 188). 
Brown Bread and Batter. 
Oanned Fruit. Tea. 



Protelds Fats 



Carbo- 
hjdratae. 



Sllie.BQokw1ieafc Flour &M 

1 lb. Sausage SJK 

2 lbs. Bet'f 6.72 

3 Ibe. Potatoes .96 

S Itie. Tomatoes (oanned at 

home) 19 

3 Iba. Broad 2.88 

2 Egrga M 

H lb. Barley 88 

Iqt. Whole Milk l.ia 

^ lb. Siifrnr ......... ...... 

1 ib. Dried Feaa 3.68 

\i lb. Butter 

Ganned Fruit 

Ih. Ooflee ... ...« 

^TOft - - - • mmmm 

Total JailT 

Bequired ia.19 



17.29 



85.15 
78.08 



Coat 
in 
Cents 



.64 


8BJB0 


to 


6.00 




12 


L78 




82 






394 




3.50 


6 




24.90 




J» 
.13 


■ 

(».78 


4 




1.65 


7 


WW* 


7.92 


8» 


.32 


8.32 


5 


6.66 




12^ 






10 






at 








W * « • 




5 



1271 
138 



Digitized by Google 



Bills of Fare, Class III. 



175 



TuiBDtAT, Jauuabt. 

Brmkfagt. Dinner. 

Graham 3?!sci!it9. Boiled Mutton, 

Fried Bacon. Apple Sauce. Baked Potatoes. 

Coflee. Winter Squash. 

Dried Apple Short Cake 
with Pudding Bauce. 
Corn Cloffee. 

Bupper. 

Mutton and Bean Broth. 
Bread and Butter. 
CQieeBe. Tea. 
Oookiea. 





Fiotelda 

OS. 


OS. 


Carbo- 
bydratea 

OS. 


Coeta 
in 
Gent 




416 


9M 




0 




.10 




4.44 


6 




8.68 




8.G6 


5 




u» 


lift 


mm m m 


m 






WW 


15.84 


7 


2qtfl. Wholp Milk 


2.32 


2.46 


8.aa 


U 


3^ 11)8. Mutton 


6.80 


2.40 


mmmm 


80 


8 lb. Potatoes 


.96 


m m m m 


9.94 






..... .10 




ZM 


10 










15 




IM 


aft 


16.60 


4! 




.. 4.80 




27.94 




H lb. Butter 




am 




m 


}^ lb* Ouflud - 








»l 










8 










5 




, ., 22.10 




89.82 








12.4S 


78.00 


138 



Digitized by Google 



TWELYE COLD DIISTIfEES. 



If a man is to eat a cold dinner for months or eyen 
for weekBy it is quite worth while to make that din- 
ner as good as it can he^ and to pack it nicely for carry- 
ing Every one knows how it can take the edge off 

even a keen appetite to find his sandwich smeared 
with apple pie, or his cake soaked with vinegar from 
the pickles. That a box or basket of given dimen- 
Biom shonld hold as much as possible^ and keep the 
different kinds of food separate, it mnst be divided 
into compartments. 

Simplest — an oblong basket, — diylde into two 
compartments by a piece of pasteboard cut so th;it 
it slips in rather tiglitly, then line the two compart- 
ments with nice wrapping paper pnt in fresh every 
day. It may be divided into four parts in the same 
way, A close fitting tin spice box is nice for holding 
cheese. A tiny salve'' box shonld contain salt and 
pepper mixed. Sew leather straps on the cover of the 
basket inside, for holding knife, fork and spoon. 

Put a strap around the basket that you may hang 
from it a little pail containing cold soups recom- 
mended for drinks in summer. 

Cold paddings shonld be wrapped in strong writ- 
ing paper, then in wrapping paper and pinned dose. 

176 



Digitized by Google 



Twelve Cold Dinners^ 



177 



COLD UIJSi^fiES FOR SUMMER. 



1. Bread and butter. 
8aUui of potatoes and cold 

baked fish. 
Cold boiled beet. 
Molasses (Cookies. 

Apple Soup. 

d. Corn Brasd. 
Ham BandwichM. 
Baked sweel apploa 
Custard pie. 
Plnm Soup 

8. Bread and butter. 

Cold veal. 

Hard boiled eggs. 
Pickled beets. 
Ckerry Fie. 



4 Chopped beef sandwiches. 
Balad of Lima Beans. 

Ginger Snaps. 
Cottage Cheese. 
Irish Moss Lemonade. 

5. Graham breed. 
Gold roast mutton. 
Oacumbers and salt. 
Pumpkin pie. 
Soda cream. 

6. Bread and butter. 

Dried Beef. Crackers. 

Cheese. Sponge cake. 
Ooldcotfee. 



COLD DINKBB8 FOR WINTBE. 

10. Biscuits and butter with 



7. Bread. 
Cold boiled pork. 
Cold baked beans with 
mustard and vinegar. 

DcMighnuts. 
Apple pie. 
Cold coflee. 

& Yeast biscuite and butter. 
Gold chicken. 
PicUea. 
Cold rice pudding. 
Apples. 

9. Cold soda biscuits. 
Veal and ham fiandwiches. 
Saratoga potatoes. 
Mince pie. 



honey. 
Gold com beef and rye 

bread. 
Dried apple tarts. 
Cheese. 

11. Bread and butter. 
Smoked Herring. 



Pickled 

Apples. 

12. Corn bread and butter. 
Cold roast beef and white 
bread. 

Bread and apple pudding. 
Bread cake. 



Digitized by Google 



PAOK. 

Apple dumplings IDS 

pie Iflft 

water IBB 

Apples, food value of M 

Bacon, balls in soup 1^ 

broiled M 

fried M 

witb cabbagre 5i 

Barley, analysis of 8Q 

to cook aft 

porridge 122 

with prunes 8ft 

in soup 121 

Bean flour 82 

soup HI 

Beans, cellulose in 

to cook 115 

digestibility of IL^ 

proteid in 81 

with prunes lift 

Beef, analysis of, compared, 26^ 2S. 

baked il 

boiled IQ 

tiroiled 42 

corned 41 

croquettes 4ft 

friwlinfat 4a 

hash 4fi 

heart 4& 

liver 41 

pie 4fi 

pressed 4& 

re-cooked 48 

stew Mi. 

tripe 4& 

Biscuit, graham 102 

soda 102 

soda in puddings liS 

yeast ftl 



TAJOK. 

Bills of Fare, explanation of 142 
Class L introduction to.. 143 



Cla'^s I 151 

Class II m 

Class ni Ifii 

Bonny Clabber fi4 

Bread, com 81 

dressing Ififi 

additional facts about ... 9ft 

in foreign countries Ifi 

fritters 114 

grahnm Sft 

making M 

making, principles in- 
volved in ai 

omelet flQ 

pancakes 93 

pudding IIQ 

re-t>aked Iflfi 

rye fil 

steamed 99 

stale, steamed IQft 

soup 121 

uses for 1Q5 

Buckwheat, analjrgis of flQ 

pancakes IQQ 

Buns, plain 98 

fruit 98 

Butter, artificial 2Q 

substitutes for ffi 

to try out H 

Buttermilk cheese (see Cot- 
tage cheese). 

to keep fresh 64 

pudding Iflfi 

soup 12^ 

uses for 04 

C^ke, raised M 

Jobimy IQS 



IRQ 



Index, 



Oake, short IDfi 

short, strawberry IflB 

Oarbohydrates ft 

amount io diet 7ft 

containing' foods S 

dlgtsUbility of 31 

function of fi 

Oelluloae 75 

in beans 7ft 

its U8C« 82 

Charci>al, use of Zl^ 42 

Chocolate 12i 

soup 122 

Cheese, cottii^re fii 

cooked with bread fil 

digestibility of SQ 

fondamin fiS 

food value of 2& 

srrated fil 

protcid in 5 

use abroad 

Chicken^ f ricasecd 57 

soup 57 

Cider, botUed IM 

soup 124 

Coffee m 

com Iffi 

Com (Indian), analysis of SQ 

bread 97. 103 

flour 87 

grruel 135 

mush 87 

pancakes 87. Ifli 

pone ^ 

porridge 122 

pudding 107 

Croquettes, meat 49 

Dietary, army 6fi 

Bavarian 07 

standard 3. 1()-13 

of poor family IZ. 

Dinners, Twelve Cold 175 

Doughnuts 28 

Drinks at meals 123 

Economy, its true scope 12 

£gg dishes fill 



Bggs, food value of ^ 58 

hard boiled fiQ 

omelets QQ 

proteid In 5 

raw 5Q 

soft boUed 6Q 

Egg sponge for soup 128 

Ftorina, pudding IQft 

soup 121 

Fats in array dietary flft 

different, compared flft 

digestibility of ffi 

function of fi 

Importance of 87 

uses of in cooking Q 

Fish balls 67 

fresh 55 

food value of ffi 

chowder 55 

salt 5ft 

floup 5ft 

Flavorings 9. 130 

Flour, fine wheat 88 

raised with egg S2 

raised with soda IDQ 

raised with yeast S3 

quality of M. 

Fondamin fiS 

Food Principles, definition of 4 

functions of 7 

proportion of in diet Itt 

Fritters m 

bread Hi 

egg-raised 113 

soda-raised 113. 

fruit ^114 

Fruits, digestibility of 84 

dried 84 

fritters ... 114 

food value of ffl 

soups 124 

puddings 108 

Gelatine, history of 22 

Graham biscuits IQg 

bread fift 

gems ffi 



V 



d by Google 



Index, 



PAOB. 

Graham, pancakes lik 

GraitiH, analysis of fiQ 

cookiuj^of 8& 

Grapes, sugar In M 

Gruels 13li 

Ham, cakos M. 

croquettes M. 

boiled 53 

broUed M 

fried M 

sandwiches 5a 

Hash, meat 42 

Heat saver M 

Hominy, fried 81 

Mu8hr?8, fried 81 

to make QQ 

other uses for ffl 

Introduction 1 

Kitchen, arran^mcnt of 18 

utensils Ifl 

Lard 12 

Lentils, to cook Hi 

food value of 81 

soup Ufi 

Lemonade, Irish moss IM 

Muca ron i, to cook 8U 

in soup 12& 

with tomatoes 

Marrow H 

Meat balls in soup 

consumption of 11 

methods of oookingr 22 

structure of 2& 

tough, to make tender. . . 45 

Milk, analyBLs of ^ 

canning 63 

sour, uses for fii 

Mint Banco 24 

MuQius Sa 

Mutton, modes of cooking . . 51 

Noodles BQ 

Noodle soup fll 

Oats, food value of Zft 

analysis of 8Q 

Oatmeal gruel 13& 

pancakes fifl 



Oatmeal, mush S& 

Omelets (8C*e Eggs). 

Oil*}, for frying 41 

Pancakes, soda 87, 108 

egg-raised 93 

yeast-raisod KK), 1(M 

Parsnip soup iia 

Pears, food value of 84 

Peas Split, to cook m 

food value of 118 

Pea soup 118 

Plurasoup 124 

Piecrust IS 

apple lis 

Pork and apples £5 

and beans fifi 

ways of cooking 55 

food value of 2S. 

Potato, oooklng of the llii 

crust i& 

food value of iS 

omelet lli 

soup 118 

Porridges 122 

Proteids 6 

function of I 

containing foods 22 

vegetable 28 

Pudding, Berry Betty HQ 

broad UQ 

bread and butter Ill 

Brown Betty HQ 

buttermilk 108 

custard IIQ 

farina lUft 

Indian 107, IIQ 

Individual Ill 

minute 107 

rice IIQ 

sago HQ 

sauce 112 

suet H2 

tapioca HQ 

Rice, analysis of 80 

food value of IS 

to 000k 8ft 



Index, 



rAGB. 

Rico, grniol 1^ 

omelet fiQ 

pancakes ffi 

pudding 107, 110 

Rolls 21 

Rusks 9a 

Rye flour, analysis of 8tt 

bread 81 

Salrs ft 

Sauces, drawn butter S 

meat II 

Schwaben Spetzel Iffl 

Sick, cookery for the 13ft 

Starch, in dietary IS 

diifcstibility of H 

Soda Cream 13fi 

Sorrel soup 12Q 

Soup, additions to ]3& 

analysis of 24 

flsh m 

fruit IM 

meat, to make S 

milk ao, 123 

use of in Europe liL 

vegetable Ill 

81 



Su^ar, consumption of 15 

food value of SQ 

Suet puddin^f 112 

to try out iQ 

uses of .V XL 12 

Tea 134 

Thermometer, use of 43. 

Tomato omelet fil 

sauce 14 

soup 118 

Tripe, to cook IS 

Veal, modes of cooking: 50 

Vegetable food, digestibility 

of S 

Vegetables, cooking of llfi 

food value of © 

with fruits Ufl 

mixed 116 

soups ... 117 

Water & 

Wheat 19 

analysis of SQ 

flour, cooking of w>-ini 

Welsh rarebit fi2 



THE AMERICAN PUBLIO HEALTH 

ASSOCIATION, 

Oigauked in 1872 by a few emJnent sanitaiiaiis, bas grown 
in fourteen yean to be tbe ationi^t and ablest aasociation of 
its kind in America, if not in the world, and contains in its list 
of members, pbysidans, lawyers, clergymen, teacbers, en* 
gineeis, arcbitects, and representatives of other trades and 
professions. Its influence has been felt in the legislative halls 
of tbe nation, as well as in every state and territory, for the 
ameUorationof sickness and suffering, and tbe prolongation of 
buman life. 

Tbe fourteen large and elegant volumes it has published are 
in themselves a monument to American bycrirne, while their 
precepts and teachings have been felt through all ranks and 
grades of society, from the workshop to the mansion of the 
milliouaire. Ko library is complete in its literature of sanita- 
tion without these works. 

Each member of the AissociuLion receives a copy of the 
annual volume free of expense. This work alone is worth - 
more to any individual than the cost of membership. 

EXTRACT FROM CONSTlTUTlOIi, Art. IIL 

The members of this Association sbaU be known as Active 
and Associate. Tbe Executive Committee shall determine tor 
wbicb dass a candidate sball be proposed. The Active mem- 
bera shall constitute the permanent body of the Association, 
subject to the provisions of the Constitution as to continuance 
in membership. They shall be selected with special reference 
to their acknowledged interest in or devotion to sanitary studies 
and allied sciences, and to the practical application of the 
same. The Associate members shall be eleeted with special 
reference to their general interest only in Ranitary f^cieiK e, and 
shall have all tbe privileges and publications of the Associa- 

188 



Digitized by Google 



184 American Public Health Association. 



Uon, \mt Shan nol be entitled to vote. All membeni shall be 
elected as follows: 

Each candidate for admiflsioii shall first be proposed to the 
Executive Committee in writing (which may be done at any 
time), with a statement of the business or profession, and 
special qualifications, of the persons so proposed. On recom^ 
mendation of a majority of the committee, and on receiving a 
vote of two thirds of the members present at a regular meeting, 
the candidate shall be declared duly eirrtod a member of the 
Association. The annual fee ol membership in either class, 
shall be iive dollars. 




Digitized by Google 



PT-BUCATI02SS OF THE A^TERICAK 
^^UC HEAI.TH ASSOCIATION. 

pOTUC HEALTH: Ko-oet» asi> ^'^'^J'^ 
AmoCMI tvmJK Health ABsocii-no>-. ToJu«»l*B» 

' and one Tt.l-^-in- iBBU«i itnuunUy- Wj"'* 
toin the pai«r^. prosenw-d at the «mmil * 



the AwodJitioD. -Willi Ui€ discussioiis upom eaca,^ o»*» 
iB entitled "^c Li.iiual r rfaWU ^ r^J'"^^ 

. i,^T,^« of the tTCMter for sue. ^lae 



al» placed in tbe Lands ^ ^ 

preaect time tli^r^ are ^^"f^ 
ft>^. axe temg rapidly tjfcai *y 



OTCnON A>T) DISINFECT AOTS: Thkih Ap- 

AXO UflB m THE PbEVENTIOS AliD T&EATMKST 
'"^H^.^AMD IB PtTJUC ASD PWVATE SaKITATIOH, by 

^^^^ IM^tofecUntt. .ppoinUd by U.e AmericMi 
PnMic Health Aflsodation. v 
^Tte ioUowiiig \s the Ust of auibors of this work: GiMM M. 
aZ«J^^l D Surtreon U. S. Army, end EelklW liy 

S^Td-, Professor of Phy^ology -id 8jl.il«y Sd^^^ 

Health; Cuablls . HadUi: Geobge H. Roiift, 

M. D., Profefflor of "y^*^^!^ j,. p., President of ilie 

original «xp«l»«« iamtigations made by ..,.sc 
.^^^ UP^ toportance and value, and render Ih,. 



Digitized by Google 



186 American Public Health AesoeuUim* 



tion and disinfectants yet published. A large amount of 
orii^iiiiil work is devoted to the various micro-org-anisms, and 
in determining the value of many of the so-called disinfectants 
and germicides. The biolos^ical work v* as conducte d mostly at 
the Johns IIo])kins Univf rsity under Ibe supcrvidion of Dr. 
Sternberg, and at the University of Michigan under Dr. 
Vaughan. Various apparatus used for disinfecting purposes, 
as well as the admirable quarantine system at New Orleans, 
are fully described and illustrated. The chapter on Pto- 
maines, by Dr. Vaughan, is of great value. 

The labors and investigations of these gentlemen extended 
over a period of three years, and inyolved no inconsiderable 
ezpenaei 

The work consiBtB of twoiitmdred and alxlj-il^e pages, with 
sixty-eight illustrations, printed upon ray heavy paper made 
especially for this Tolume. and is elegantly bound in handsome 
English doth. The price has been placed at the low figure of 
two dollars per Tolume. Sent postpaid on receipt of price. 





Digitized by Google 



LOME PRIZE ESSAYS, 



These exceedingly valuable essays, ■written by authors of 
great ability, and selected as the best out of many received in 
competition, by comnuttees of award who were selected l y 
the American Public Health Association, the Conference of 
State Boards of Health, and the National Board of Health, and 
whose names alone guarantee the high character of the works, 
are being placed before the public at cost, through means 
that are being furnished the American Public Health Asso- 
ciation. 

No. X. Healthy Homes and Foods for the Working-Classes. 
By Prof. Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., Ann Arbor, Mich. 

JWDGEe:— Dr. E. M. Moore, Pres. State Bd. of Health, Roch- 
ester, N. T.; Dr. C. W. Chancellor, Scc'y State Bd. of Health, 
Baltimore, Md. ; Medical Director Albert L. Gihon, U. S. Nav}-, 
Washington, D. C; Dr. J. H. Raymond, Hcfilth Commissioner, 
Brooklyn, N. Y.; Major Charles bmart, burgeon U. S. A., 
Washington, J>, C. 

BTiroFBUi ov cohtbntb. 

Location J tbe cellar; the uralls; the floors; arrangement of 
rooms; the windows; heating and yentilation; water-supply; 
the disposal of waste; the sttrronndings; the care of the home; 
buying or renting a house; tenement-houses; foods and food 
stuffs; the nutritive value of foods; the economic value of 
foods. Ant/nal foods; — general properties; methods of cook- 
ing meat; milk; butter; cheese. Vegetable foods; — cereals and 
grains; flour and meal; bread; pease and beans; potatoes; 
other vegetables; starches; sugars; fruits; nuts; vegetable oils; 
condiments; tea; coffee; chocolate. 

8vo paper* ppb Price 10 cts. 

Same in Engllsh-Cterman (alternate pages in German) .15. 

187 



Digitized by Google 



ISS Zoffid Prize Essatfs. 

No. 2, The Sanitary Conditions and Necessities of School- 
Houses and School-Life* By D. F. Likcoln* M. D*, 
BofltODj Mass. 

Judges:— Hon. Er£L«tus Brooks, LL. D., State Bd. of Health, 
New York; Dr. H. P. Walcott, State Bd. of Healtli, Lunacy, 
and Charity, Cambridge, Mass.; Dr. GrafiviUe P. Corm, Pr^ 
Bute Bd. of Health, Concord, N. H.: John Eaton, Commis- 
doner of Education, Washington, D C; Coi George £. War- 
ing, Jr., C. Newport, R. L 

Site: dampness, the cellar, contamination of floU and air, 
drainage, foundation walls, neighborhood, etc. Plan and ar- 
rangement of the haHding: architectnie, doors, windows, 
recitation and daas-rooma^ stairways, fire-escapes, eta Yen- 
tilatiofn and heating: amount of fresh air and cuhic space re- 
quired, introduction of fresh air, carbonic add gas eziialed, 
dimendons of yentilating apparatus, size of flues, dieulation 
of air in room, yentilating by steam power, indirect" lieat- 
ing, testing atmosphere of adhool-room, source of air-supply, 
water-doseta, Tentilating-stoves, open windows, Tenttlatois, 
etc. Sewerage: bad air dangerous to health, waste-pipes, 
traps, ventilation of traps, closets, flush-tanks, urinals, privies* 
disinfectants. Hygiene of the eye: nearsightedness, rules for 
using the eyes, 1(>cation of windows, type used in school- 
books, curiaias and blinds. School desks and gymnastics: 
construction of seats, physical training. Affections of the 
nervous system: competition for prizes, lack of exercise, dreas. 
Contnirions diseases in schools. Sanitary supervifiioiu This 
work contains fifteen illustratiouH. 

8to paper, 38 page& Price, 5 da. 

No. 3. Disinfection and Individual Prophylaxis against 
Infectious D i s eases. By Georos M. Stx&nssbo, M. D., 
Major and Surgeon U. S. A. 

JuDOBs:— Dr* S. H. Durgin, Health Officer, Boston, Haas.; 
Dr. J. B. Beeves, Sec^y State Bd, of Health, Wheeling, W. Va.; 
Dr. Gustavas Devron, Pres. Auz. Ban. Assn., New Oiteans, 



Digitized by Google 



Lomb Prize JSssa^s 189 

La.; Prof. Richard McSherry, M. D., Baltimore, Md.; Pro! 
James L. Cabell, LL. D., UiUyeisitj of Yuginia, Ya. 

Disinfectioii; groopB of dinnfectants. 

Obouf 1 Fue; d. Steam under praBraie; 8. Boiling 
water; 4 Chloride of Ume; 5. Uqaor, aods chlorinate; 6. 
Mercuric chloride. 

Group II.— 7. Dry heat; 8. Sulphur dioxide; 9. Carbolic 
acid; 10. Sulphate of copper; 11. Chloride of zinc; general 
directions for disinfection; disinfection of excreta, etc.; dis- 
infection of person; disinfection of clothing and bedding; dis- 
infection of the sick-room; disinfection of privy vaults, cess- 
pools, etc.; hospitals; disinfection of water and articles of 
food; disinfection of ships; merchandise. Individual prophy- 
laxis against infectious diseH^^es; cholera; yellow fever; small- 
pox; scarlet fever; diphtlieria; tuberculosis; typhoid fever; 
concluding remarks, etc. 

This essay is undoubtedly the best ever written in the 
English language upon the prevention of disease, and oug h 
to bu placed in the hands of every family. 

8vo paper, 40 pp. Price, 5 cts. 

Same in English-Qerman (alternate pages in German) .10. 

No. 4. The Preventable Causes of Disease, Injury, and 
Death in American Manufactories and Workshops, 
and the Best Means and Appliances for Preventing 
and Avoiding Them. By GsoBas H. Ibblaud, Spring- 
field, Mass. 

Judges:— Dr. E. M. Hunt, Sec^y State Bd. of Health, Tren- 
ton, N. J. ; Br. A. N. Bell, Editor SanitaHan, New Yorit City; 
JIajor George M. Sternberg, Surgeon, 11. S. A., Baltimore, 
Md.; Major John S. Billings, LL. D., U. S. A., Washington, 
D. C. ; Mr. W. P. Dunwoody, Secretary ^National Board of 
Health, Washington, D. G. 

Constmction of workshops; elevators; flre-eacapes; sanitary 
conditioo; plumbing; ventilation; sunlight; heating; lighting; 
precaution against ftres; dust in factories; ice supply; handling 



Digitized by Google 



- * 



190 Limib Prite Masays, 

heavy goods; inachinrr\ ; saws and moulding machines; grind- 
stones; railroadinn^; einergeucies; cootagious diseases; cleanli- 
ness, facilities lor workmen, etc. 

8vo paper, 20 pages. Price, 5 cts. 

The four essays, in one volume of nearly two hundred luge 
octavo pagieB, thoroughly indeseed^ bound io cloth, .50 eta. 

The name printed upon extra heavy paper made especially 
for this edition, and bound In extensive brown cloth with gold 
and black finish, making an elc^gant and handsome ?ohmie^ 
I0.7& 



Digitized by Google 



Digitized by Google 



I 



LANE MEDICAL LIBRARY 



To avoid fine, this book should be returned on 
or before the date last stamped below. ' 

I 

I J 

i 



« 



I 



Digitized by Google 



U£19 Abel, Mrs^M.W.(H.) 

A14 Practical Scinitary 
^8 90 and e o cm om i e-eoeki ^sg^ 

NAME 10008 I "^^^^ 



