
Class JU^J-5..S_ 

Book C 7- 5 — 

Copyright ]^^ 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



"YOU ASKI-FLL TELL!" 

A 

HOME AND BUSINESS COMPANION 

OF 

ALL THTNGS -5^<r 

OF 

EVERY-DAY LIFE. 

EMBRACING 

KVERY ONE HIS OWN DOCTOR — EVERY ONE HIS OWN SURGEON — EVERY ONB 

HIS OWN DRUGGIST— EVERY ONE HIS OWN LAWYER— EVERY ONE HIS 

OWN COOK — HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT — THE ART OE CARVING — 

THE ART OF DRESS-MAKING — THE ART OE FANCY NKEDLB 

AND WAX FLOWER WORK — ETIQUETTE — TOILET — HOMK 

AMUSEMENTS— PARLOR AND OUT-DOOR GAMES — A 

TREATISE ON THE HORSE. 

A BOOK 

FOR THE FATHER — MOTHER— SISTER — BROTHER — LOVER — LA^VYER — DOCTOR 

— MERCHANT — MECHANIC — FARMER — MARINER — YOUNG AND 

OLD — MALE AND FEMALE. 



GEORGE H. CAIvrTWELL, M. D. 



RIVERSIDE PUBLISHING CO. 



<^t 



r\ ^ 



\ 



Copyrighted by Wm. Flint, 1890. 



PREFACE. 



rPHE Editor, in congratulating himself upon the completion of this work, 
gratefully acknowledges the favors and courtesies extended to him by the 
PROFESSIONAL and SCIENTIFIC GENTLEMEN whom he has had occasion to consult. 
And, equally, to those Authors whose works have (by their consent) furnished 
much valuable information, he oflfers his sincere thanks. Especially does he 
express thanks to Madame Kellogg, who has personally prepared a most instruc- 
tive treatise on the art of dressmaking, illustrated with the plans and diagrams 
so successfully employed for instruction in her classes. Ladies who are fortunate 
in the use of this book will be under many obligations to the Madame for her 
plain and comprehensive hints on dressmaking. 

The many books published — whether Cookery Books, Family Doctor, or Law 
books; books on Dress, Furniture, Etiquette, Amusements, or Needlework — 
have none of them met the popular want, inasmuch as not more than one-tenth 
of the contents were useful in the household (however valuable to the expert). 
Their pages were encumbered with a mass of impracticable matter, which 
increased the volume so much, that what should have been contained in 
one book was made to fill several ; thus not only increasing the cost, but render- 
ing it as difficult to find the identical item required as to find a needle in a 
" haystack." 

The object of the present work is to furnish a large number of needles, and 
to place them in a needle-case, having a place for each needle, and each needle 
in its place, so that it may be found the moment it is wanted ; to furnish the 
digested contents of many books in one volume at the minimum cost — just as 
Professor Liebig, in the preparation of his extract, condenses an ox into the 
space of a small jar, retaining the essence, thereby reducing the cost and adding 
to the convenience. 

While portions of this book are the results of a careful and comprehensive 



Vlll PREFACE. 

research of our best writers and most scientific men, it is not a mere compila- 
tion, but in plan and detail is the product of the Editor's own mental application- 

A large proportion is original, in this view, that it has never before been 
PUBLISHED, but has accumulated from contact with sagacious and practical 
people, and now reduced to form especially for this work. 

In the appendix may be written or pasted additional receipts which are found 
worthy of careful preservation for ready reference ; this is a feature which the 
systematic housewife will fully appreciate. 

The reader may depend upon everything in these pages as being practical, 
having been proved by ACTUAL trial and constant use. Two of the receipts 
presented were obtained at a cost of fifty dollars, in cash, for each, and many 
others at a cost varying from five to twenty dollars, for each, and were all proved 
hefore being admitted here. 

It is not claimed that this work is perfect ; but the Editor has spared no 
pains to make it iiseful. It is reliable ; and he feels confident that no work 
hitherto published contains so much general and valuable information, in such a 
condensed and useful form, or for many times its cost. 

None but those who have actually engaged in the preparation of a work of 
this kind can estimate the amount of labor involved, and the many difficulties 
to be overcome before it can be completed. 

In claiming for this work the title of "A Home and Business Companion 
OF All Things op Every-Day Life," the Editor thinks the public will 
endorse it, and sustain him in the assertion, that for whatever you want to know, 
ask the book and it will tell. 

"Knowledge is power." It is treasured up in a reservoir from whence all 
may draw — to make domestic use of which, it requires to be brought to our 
homes. We here offer a portable reservoir of that Jcnoioledge-power, and if by 
drawing from it the mother is enabled to lighten her household cares ; to run the 
machinery of domestic life so that there shall be no creaking ; to care for her 
children, that they may be healthy, virtuous and wise — the boy to be active, 
manly, generous and intelligent — the girl to be the joy of the household, indus- 
trious, unselfish and refined — the father to guide and control the whole domestic 
economy ; that all may work together in harmony with the laws of nature ; the 
business man to manage and conduct his affairs successfully and avoid law suits ; 
then will the Editor feel that he has succeeded in his undertaking. 



CONTENTS. 



For Index, see end of Book. 



' PAOE 

Home Management .... 11 

Quackery 13 

Sleep— Ventilation .... 15 
Infant Management . . . . 19 
Every One His Own Doctor 23 
Children's Diseases .... 23 

Throat Diseases 31 

Skin Diseases 33 

Brain and Nerve Diseases . 39 
Teeth and Ear Diseases . . 52 

Chest Diseases 57 

Heart Diseases 61 

Stomach and Bowels ... 65 

Kidney Diseases 75 

Female Diseases 79 

Fevers 83 

Rheumatism 88 

Abscesses and Sores ... 92 
Burns and Scalds .... 97 
Wounds and Fractures . . 99 

Eye Diseases 112 

Every One His Own Druggist 1 19 
Properties op Medicine . . 122 
(xLOSSary of Medical Terms. 139 
Every One His Own Surgeon 136 

Bandages 138 

Substitutes for Splints . .140 
Cupping and Leeches . . .141 
How To Preserve Health . 143 
Bathing and Cleanliness . 144 

Taking Exercise 146 

Temperance and Moderation 148 
Effect op Intermarriage . .152 
Prevention op Accidents . .155 



FAQK 

Advice to Swimmers . . .156 

Strength of Men 157 

Every One His Own Cook . 159 
Where to Find Joints . . .161 
Rules for Marketing . . . 163 
Baking, Roasting and Broil- 
ing 174 

The Art of Carving . . .218 
How TO Pickle, Can and 

Preserve 225 

Preparation of Vegetables . 230 
Pastry and Cakes .... 242 
Confectionery and Ices . . 257 
How TO Make Drinks . . . 262 

Bread Making 271 

Making Home Comfortable . 275 
Husband and Wife .... 299 
The Use of Language . . .307 

Rules of Accent 314 

How TO Write Properly . . 320 
Laws of Etiquette .... 324 
Balls and Parties .... 331 

The Toilet 343 

Domestic and Farm Recipes . 351 
Every One His Own Lawyer 376 
Landlord and Tenant . , . 379 
Partnership and Wills . , 382 
Weights and Measures . . 387 
Home Amusements .... 392 
The Art of Needlework . .415 
The Art of Dressmaking . . 447 
Treatise Upon the Horse . 459 

Appendix 469 

Index 485 

(ix) 



HOME MANAGEMENT. 



Signification of the Word Home— Why Quacks Should be Avoided 
— Practical Suggestions about Food, Exercise, Sleep, Ventila- 
tion. AND the Care of Infants. 



HOME. — This word has a compara- 
tively narrow signification in this 
country : it is not often used, and then 
to denote a "dwelline- place." The 
English attach a far deeper meaning 
to it. To them it means the place where 
the heart is — the one place on earth 
where, above all others, the affections 
are centred — father, mother, brother, 
"sister, are all concentrated in that little 
word. To make our dwelling-place a 
Home, it must be made attractive ; it 
need not be fashionable — it must be 
neat ; do not shut out the sunshine — it 
may fade the carpet, but it will pre- 
serve the health of the inmates, and 
give an air of cheerfulness all through 
the house. Don't be afraid of a little 
fun, lest a hearty laugh shake down 
some of the musty old cobwebs there. 
If you want to ruin your sons, let them 
think that all mirth and social enjoy- 
ment must be left on the threshold 
without, when they come home at night. 
When once a home is regarded as only 
a place to eat, drink, and sleep in, the 
work is begun that ends in gambling- 
houses and reckless degradation. 
Young people must have fun and re- 
laxation somewhere; if they do not 
find it at their own hearthstones, it will 
be sought at other and perhaps less 
profitable places. Therefore let the fire 
burn brightly at night, and make the 
homestead delightful with all those 
little arts that parents so perfectly un- 
derstand. Don't repress the buoyant 
spirit of your children. Half an hour 
of merriment, round the lamp and fire- 
light of a home, blots out the remem- 
brance of many a care and annoyance 
during the day ; and the best safeguard 
they '-an take with them into the 



world is the unseen influence of a 
bright little domestic sanctum. 

Encourage your children to bring 
their companions home with them oc- 
casionally — say once a month; allow 
them a cheerful room, well lighted and 
warmed. Encourage them in vocal 
and instrumental music, in parlor 
games and other innocent recreations. 
And although it is well to look in upon 
them sometimes — to know them — do 
not remain, to be a restraint upon 
them, but let them enjoy themselves in 
their own way. The fact that you take 
an interest in them, and try to make 
them happy, will be sufiicient to keep 
them from becoming too boisterous, 
and will teach them moderation and 
self-control. 

Let cheerful conversation be en- 
couraged, and the children invited to 
join in and ask questions. Children 
hunger perpetually for new ideas. 
They will learn with pleasure from the 
lips of parents what they deem drudg- 
ery to study in books ; and even if 
they have the misfortune to be de- 
prived of many educational advan- 
tages, they will grow up intelligent, if 
they enjoy in childhood the privilege 
of listening daily to the conversation 
of intelligent people. We sometimes 
see parents, who are the life of every 
company that they enter, dull, silent, 
and uninteresting at home among their 
children. If they have not mental ac- 
tivity and mental stores sufficient for 
both, let them first use what they nave 
for their own households. A silent 
house is a dull place for young people, 
a place from which they will escape if 
they can. How much useful informa- 
tion, on the other hand, is often given? 



12 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



in pleasant family conversation, and 
what unconscious, but excellent men- 
tal training in lively social argument, 
cultivate to the utmost all the graces 
of home conversation. 

Instead of swallowing your food in 
sullen silence, or brooding over your 
business, or severely talking about 
others, let the conversation at the table 
be genial, kind, social, and cheering. 
Don't bring disagreeable things to the 
table in your conversation, any more 
than you would in your dishes. The 
more good company you have at your 
table the better. Hence the intelli- 
gence, refinement, and appropriate be- 
havior of a family which is given to 
hospitality. Never feel that intelli- 
gent visitors can be anything but a 
blessing to you and yours. And in 
your own conversation, never lose sight 
of the fact that the first essential thing 
is truth — the next, good sense — the 
third, good humor — and the fourth, wit. 

Boys are more boisterous than girls ; 
it is natural to them, and should not be 
unduly restrained, or it may crush out 
that fine manly spirit and elasticity 
which enables the man to surmount all 
diflSculties. 

"Ma, were you ever a boy?" said a 
bright-eyed little boy when reproved 
by his mother for too much sportive- 
neas; " Were you ever a boy ? " 

This was a boy of the right stamp 
— having the ring of the true metal. 

Boys and girls should be brought 
up together as companions ; in this 
way boys are more gentle, pure minded, 
and conscientious than those educated 
wholly with their own sex. 

So girls brought up with boys are 
ever more vigorous in thought and 
action, less vain and frivolous, than 
when under the care of women alone. 
Boys and girls in schools together are 
more healthy and refined in all their 
associations than either sex alone. 

In domestic happiness, the wife's 
influence is much better than her hus- 
band's ; for the one, the first cause — 
mutual love and confidence — being 
granted, the whole comfort of the 
Dousehold depends upon trifles more 



immediately under her jurisdiction 
By her management of small sums, 
her husband's respectability and credit 
are created or destroyed. No fortune 
can stand the constant leakages of ex- 
travagance and mismanagement ; and 
more is spent in trifles than women 
would easily believe. The one great 
expense, whatever it may be, is turned 
over and carefully reflected on ere in- 
curred ; the income is prepared to 
meet it ; but it is pennies impercepti- 
bly sliding away which do mischief, 
and this the wife alone can stop, for it 
does not come within a man's prov- 
ince. There is often an unsuspected 
trifle to be saved in every household. 

It is not in economy alone that the 
wife's attention is so necessary, but in 
those niceties which make a well regu- 
lated house. An unfurnished cruet- 
stand, a missing key, a buttonless 
shirt, a soiled tablecloth, a mustard- 
pot with its old contents shaking hard 
and down about it, are really noth- 
ings ; but each can raise angry words 
and cause discomfort. Depend upon 
it, there is a great deal of domestic 
happiness about a well-dressed mutton- 
chop, or a tidy breakfast table. Men 
grow sated of beauty, tired of music ; 
are often too wearied for conversation, 
however intellectual ; but they can 
always appreciate a well-swept hearth 
and smiling comfort. 

A woman may love her husband de- 
votedly — may sacrifice fortune, friends, 
family, country for him — she may 
have the genius of a Sappho, the en- 
chanted beauties of an Armida ; but, 
melancholy fact, if with these she 
fails to make his home comfortable, 
his heart will inevitably escape her. 
And women live so entirely in the 
aflFections, that without love their ex- 
istence is void. Better submit, then, 
to household tasks, however repug- 
nant they may be to your tastes, than 
doom yourself to a loveless home. 
Women of the higher order of mind 
will not run their risk ; they know 
that their feminine, their domestic, 
are their first duties. 

A good appetite is essential to a 



QUACKERY. 



13 



good digestion, but a snow-white table- 
cloth is a great promoter of a good 
appetite. — No one can eat in comfort 
if any member of the family appears 
at the table in slatterly dress ; with un- 
kempt hair ; showing a breadth of black 
under the finger-nails ; with a hawking 
and a spitting and a blowing of the nose, 
and their tremendous associations. 

But the spotless napkin, the most 
splendid roast, and faultless concom- 
itants all, what do these amount to, 
if sadness is written on the face of the 
wife ; if an angry scowl gleams from 
the corrugated brow of a morose hus- 
band, or a dissatisiied look comes from 
a child's eye, and the meal is partaken 
of in ominous silence? Away with 
such unloveliness ! there is no sun- 
shine in such a household, and the 
members of that family, if they grow 
up at all, will become the refrigerators, 
the bane of every company into which 
they may be thrown in after life. 

Rather let the family table be the 
place of glad reunions ; as much 
looked forward to as the promised 
coming of a cherished friend ; let cour- 
tesies more than courtly be ever culti- 
vated; let smiles wreath every face; 
let calm satisfaction sit on every coun- 
tenance; let light hearts, and cheery 
words, and obliging acts, and watchful 
attentions be the order of the day; 
these are the promoters of a healthy 
digestion ; and these are they which 
largely help to make happy homes, and 
good hearts, and generous natures. 

The home being thus a happy place, 
one of the requirements of health is 
established, and here let us say that 
the one great requirement upon which 
all others rest, is common sense, — this is 
the great safeguard to health, and the 
best physician ; it teaches us to pro- 
tect ourselves from all quackery, and to 
accept and practice the laws of health. 
" Prevention is better than cure. " 

aU ACKER Y.— According to John- 
son, a Quack is " a boastful pretender to 
arts which he does not understand ; one 
who proclaims his own medical ability 
in public places ; or an artful tricking 
practitioner in physic." And this 



gives us a sufficiently clear definition 
of the art practised by such a pretender 
to medical knowledge. The advertis- 
ing Quack of bygone times was a 
travelling mountebank, who, from a 
stage in some public place, vaunted 
the hidden virtues of his nostrums, 
and his own power to cure all dis- 
eases to which flesh is heir. Nos- 
trum vendors of the present day do 
not so present themselves to a credu- 
lous public ; as a rule, they keep 
behind the curtain, and flood the 
columns of the newspapers, and all 
other mediums of advertisement, with 
their mendacious statements of won- 
derful cures efiected by their invalua- 
ble remedies. Never, perhaps, was 
Quackery so rampant and ubiquitous 
as in this so-called enlightened 19th 
century ; it would almost seem as if 
people wished to be duped, so eagerly 
do they clutch at each new panacea 
introduced with a great flourish of 
puffery, and a cloud of lying witnesses 
in the shape of forged testimonials. 
So great is the consumption of " patent 
medicines," whose government stamp 
appears like a certification of .'nar- 
vellous efficacy — whose high price is 
almost looked upon as an evidence 
of occult virtue. Quackery is some- 
times confounded with Empiricism ; 
but there is this difference between 
them — the former either adopts a con- 
cealed mode of treatment, or pretends 
to be possessed of a remedy applicable 
to every form of disease, and every 
individual case ; the latter is founded 
upon the principle that, as certain 
medicines are known to have cured 
certain diseases, it will be right and 
safe at all times, and under all cir- 
cumstances, to administer those reme- 
dies, whenever the diseases, against 
which they have been successfully 
employed, appear again. 

An empiric must be an instructed 
man, a Quack need not ; he may be, 
and often is, utterly ignorant of the 
nature and real operation of his 
much-vaunted remedy, composed, as. 
he would have the public believe, of 
rare and costly ingredients, and of 



14 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



universal efficacy. Nothing but un- 
blushing effrontery is here required, 
and a carelessness of consequences 
that would be ludicrous were it not 
highly criminal. 

Dr. Letheby, in concluding a series 
of valuable articles on the mischiev- 
ous effects of Quack Medicines, writes 
thus on Quack advertisements : — " If 
iny of our readers have ever been 
the victims of Quackery, we venture 
to say that it was through the medium 
of a cunningly-devised advertisement; 
for this is at all times the great decoy 
of the Quack. He knows its power, 
for he can count its results by thou- 
sands ; and he spares no pains to use 
it with advantage. He studies it as 
he would a science; and he pays as 
much attention to the skilful practice 
of it as many do to the exercise of a 
noble art. Indeed, the cunning and 
ingenuity of the quack are ever on 
the alert to find new means of de- 
veloping the resources of the all-pow- 
erful puff. At one time it comes forth 
in the shape of a learned lecturer, 
' who, at the request and earnest solici- 
tation of many friends to humanity, 
has condescended to enlighten the 
world, by giving a course of six lec- 
tures on the entire principles of his 
system.' In the details of this course, 
everything is alluded to that can by 
any possibility excite the morbid feel- 
ings of those to whom the lectures 
are addressed ; there are, for example, 
skeletons, drunkards' stomachs, dis- 
eased hearts, consumptive lungs, and 
other things of a like character; and 
not unfrequently, a hint is given that 
there is some probability of a sort of 
sparring-match between the lecturer 
and a real doctor, who has been in- 
vited to attend. This artifice has the 
effect of bringing together a large 
audience, and of producing to the 
lecturer very happy results. 

"At another time, the puff appears 
in the form of an ingenious account 
of a new medicine, and of all the 
diseases which it will infallibly cure. 
These are generally enumerated in 
aearly the same order — the category 



beginning with flatulency, and ending 
with thoughts of self-destruction. 

"To this is, generally, added a ster- 
eotyped account of the nature and 
effects of the medicine on the blood 
and humors. Morison is particularly 
apt at this : indeed he may be called 
the founder of the humorous puff. 

" The simplicity of this style is so 
exceedingly popular, that almost every 
new claimant for the honors and 
profits of quackery adopts it. 

" Then, again, there is the testimonial 
puff, which has always been very suc- 
cessful as a decoy ; and it wants but 
little management beyond that of 
keeping it up. Indeed, there are men 
who live by writing these puffs and 
selling them at so much per dozen. 
The styles of the various classes are 
always the same ; and they may be sub- 
divided into the debauch^ puff, the 
humanity puff, the sedentary puff, and 
the professional puff. 

"The puff professional is always in 
the familiar style. 

" Another sort of puff is that in 
which the advertiser abuses Quackery, 
and disclaims all connection with the 
unprincipled parties who thus impose 
on the credulity of their victims. 

" Last of all comes the most vicious 
and abominable of all species of ad- 
vertised quackery — that which is to 
be found in the by-places of every 
considerable town. The announce- 
ments to which we refer profess to be 
an account of the practice of some duly 
qualified medical man, who will under- 
take to cure disease with certainty, 
with secrecy, and at a small charge. 
Many an unwary victim has been 
lured to the den of these impostors 
by their specious announcements, and 
after having been almost ruined in 
health and in pocket, has found 
himself for years afterwards the sub- 
ject of the grossest extortion. That 
secret which the advertiser professed 
to keep, is a source of revenue to him, 
and we need not say how it is abused. 
We would warn the unwary from 
such dangers, as we would from the 
plague; and no language is severe 



FOOD — VENTILATION. 



15 



enough to condemn the practices to 
which we refer. 

" In conclusion, it must be manifest 
to our readers that the tricks of Quack- 
ery are at all times no other than the 
tricks of imposture. The idea of 
curing disease or of benefiting man- 
kind has no place in the mind of the 
Quack ; and even if it had, it is asso- 
ciated with too much ignorance to be 
of use. The one single object which 
he has in view is that of getting 
money by deception, and he cares not 
how it is accomplished, or at what 
cost it may be to the life and health 
of the community." 

FOOD. — To be healthy we must eat 
wholesome food, which, to be digested 
and absorbed into the system, must be 
well masticated (or chewed), and not 
swallowed in a hurry, but slowly, in 
order that a full flow of saliva may 
take place, and the food become well 
moistened with it before it passes into 
the stomach. This will prevent the 
necessity of drinking much at meals, 
which is an unwholesome habit, and 
especially if much cold water is in- 
dulged in while eating, for this will 
check the flow of gastric juice, and in- 
digestion will follow. This same re- 
sult will occur if too much food is 
eaten, which is apt to be the case when 
one eats in a hurry. Cheerfulness is a 
great help to digestion. Some kinds 
of food contain more nutrition than 
others, and are more easily digested 
(the tables giving the amount of nu- 
triment, and the time required to di- 
gest the several articles of food, will 
be found in another part of this book), 
but, as a rule, food which is best en- 
joyed is best digested. 

EXERCISE is also necessary to 
health ; an idle man will rust out sooner 
than an industrious one will wear out. 
The laboring man generally gets exer- 
cise enough, and in his case we will 
merely suggest that when one set of 
muscles have been kept in work all day, 
it will rest him more to call into use for 
half an hour those muscles which have 
been unused, than it would to sit or lie 
Btill for that time. Persons of sedentary 



occupations should have some regular 
plan of exercise : riding horseback — 
playing ball — billiards — calisthenics 
are all good, but perhaps the best ia 
walking ; it brings the whole body into 
motion, and can be indulged in by all 
classes, rich and poor, though, to be 
beneficial, it should be pleasurable, 
and, to this end, a good, intelligent 
companion is desirable. 

In selecting methods of exercise, 
every individual should be guided by 
his own individual tastes. It is better 
to change frequently from one exeicise 
to another. It is well even to consult 
our whims and our varying moods. 
Above all things, we should strive to 
prevent our exercise from becoming a 
dry. hard, mechanical routine. The 
heart should go with the muscles. 

SLEEP. — There is no absolute 
standard for the amount of sleep re- 
quired ; seven or eight hours is gener- 
ally necessary — some require more, 
others less. To regulate the amount of 
sleep, it is a good plan to get up as soon 
as you wake ; do not sleep in the day- 
time ; and do not go to bed before your 
usual time. Continue this, and in a few 
days Nature will accommodate herself 
to the case, and you will not wake until 
she has taken the amount she demands. 
Old people need more sleep than the 
middle aged — nine or ten hours not 
being too much for them. Growing 
children also require more sleep, and 
it is wise not to waken them in the 
morning if they do not of themselves 
wake early enough : let them go to bed 
earlier the next night. It is an old 
saying that "one hour's sleep before 
midnight is worth two hours after." 
It is none the less true now, and every 
year adds to its force. 

VENTILATION. — The sleeping 
room should be large and well venti- 
lated. We spend more hours in it than 
in any other room ; it should, therefore, 
be the most cheerful ; and yet how 
often is it considered that any room 
will do to sleep in. If the room ia 
small, the door should be left open, or 
lower the window half an inch from 
the top. A room where the sun cannoi 



16 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



reach at some part of the day is unfit /or 
a human being to sleep in. 

A New York merchant noticed, in 
the progress of years, that each suc- 
cessive bookkeeper gradually lost his 
health, and finally died of consump- 
tion, however vigorous and robust he 
was on entering his service. At length 
it occurred to him that the little rear- 
room where the books were kept open- 
ed into a back yard, so surrounded by 
high walls that no sunshine came into 
it from one year's end to another. An 
upper room, well lighted, was immedi- 
ately prepared, and his clerks had uni- 
form good health ever after, 

A familiar case to general readers is 
derived from medical works, where an 
entire English family became ill, and 
all remedies seemed to fail of their 
usual results, when, accidentally, a 
window-glass of the family room was 
broken, in cold weather. It was not 
repaired, and forthwith there was a 
marked improvement in the health of 
the inmates. The physician at once 
traced the connection, discontinued his 
medicines, and ordered that the win- 
dow-pane should not be replaced. 

A French lady became ill. The 
most eminent physicians of her time 
were called in, but failed to restore her. 
At length Dupeytren, the Napoleon of 
physic, was consulted. He noticed that 
she lived in a dim room, into which the 
sun never shone ; the house being sit- 
uated in one of the narrow streets, or 
rather lanes, of Paris. He at once or- 
dered more airy and cheerful apart- 
ments, and all her complaints vanished. 

From these facts, which cannot be dis- 
puted, the most common mind should 
conclude that cellars, and rooms on the 
northern side of buildings, or apart- 
ments into which the sun does not im- 
mediately shine, should never be occu- 
pied as family rooms or chambers, or 
as libraries or studies. Such apart- 
ments are only fit for stowage, or pur- 
poses which never require persons to 
remain in them over a few minutes at 
a time. And every intelligent and 
humane parent will arrange that the 
family room and the chambers shall 



be the most commodious, lightest, and 
brightest apartments in his dwelling. 

Feather Beds are going out of fash- 
ion. This is a step in the right direc- 
tion, for they are enervating and posi- 
tively unhealthy. The best bed, and 
the most healthy, is a curled hair mat- 
tress. For additional warmth, it is well 
to spread a comforter, or a blanket 
doubled, upon the mattress, under the 
sheet. Good hair mattresses are rather 
expensive ; thirty pounds weight make 
a fair one, thirty-five pounds a better, 
and forty pounds quite a good one. 
Husk from corn makes a good mat- 
tress. It requires to be well picked 
before using. Dried leaves from the 
maple or beech make a clean, healthy 
bed for the poor. 

If a spring bottom is placed under 
the mattress, and a good conscience 
on top of it, good and refreshing sleep 
may be expected. 

Position for Sleej). — It is a good 
plan on first getting into bed to lie on 
the left side, and after to change to the 
right side, which is the most natural 
position ; sleeping with the arms ex- 
tended above the head, or with the 
mouth open, generally causes disturb- 
ed sleep, even if it is not absolutely 
injurious. 

Night Dress. — A long, easy fitting 
night dress should always be worn to 
sleep in, first removing the garments 
worn during the day. 

Dr. Winslow wisely says, there is no 
fact more clearly established in the 
physiology of man than this, that the 
brain expends its energies and itself 
during the hours of wakefulness, and 
that these are recupera*»d during sleep. 
If the recuperation does not equal the 
exptoditure, the brain withers — this is 
insanity. Thus it is that, in early Eng- 
lish history, persons who were con- 
demned to death by being prevented 
from sleeping, always died raving ma- 
niacs ; thus it is also that those who 
are starved to death become insane — 
the brain is not nourished, and they 
cannot sleep. The practical inferences 
are three : — 1st. Those who think 
most, who do most brain work, require 



SLEEP. 



1? 



most sleep. 2d. That time ''saved" 
from necessary sleep is infallibly de- 
Btructive to mind, body, and estate. 
Give yourself, your children, your ser- 
vants — give all that are under you, 
the fullest amount of sleep they will 
take, by compelling them to go to bed 
at some regular hour, and to rise in the 
morning the moment they awake; and 
within a fortnight Nature, with almost 
the regularity of the rising sun, will 
unloose the bonds of sleep the moment 
enough repose has been secured for the 
wants of the system. This is the only 
safe and sufficient rule ; and as to the 
question how much sleep any one re- 
quires, each must be a rule for himself 
— great Nature will never fail to write 
it out to the observer under the regu- 
lations just given. 

In his remarks to invalids on this im- 
portant subject. Dr. Hall says : " The 
more you oan sleep, the sooner you will 
get well. Sleeping in the daytime, if 
before noon, will enable you to sleep 
better the following night. Go to bed 
at regular hours with an empty stomach. 
Get up as soon as you wake of your- 
self, but do not be waked. 

" The great regulator of sleep is exer- 
cise ; it is the best anodyne in the uni- 
verse, and the only one that is always 
safe, always efficient, and always whole- 
some and natural. If you cannot take 
much exercise, take a little, and from 
day to day gradually increase the 
amount." 

Being waked up early, and allowed 
to engage in difficult or any studies 
late and just before retiring, has given 
many a beautiful and promising child 
the brain fever, or determined ordinary 
ailments to the production of water on 
the brain. 

Let parents make every possible eflFort 
to have their children go to sleep in a 
pleasant humor. Never scold or give 
lectures, or in any way wound a child's 
feelings as it goes to bed. Let all ban- 
ish business and every worldly care at 
bedtime, and let sleep come to a mind 
at peace with God and all the world. 

The human body falls asleep by de- 
grees, according to M. Cabinis, a French 
2 



physiologist. The muscles of the legs 
and arms lose their power before those 
which support the head, and these last 
sooner than the muscles which support 
the back ; and he illustrates this by the 
cases of persons who sleep on horseback 
or while they are standing or walking. 
He conceives that sense of light sleeps 
first, then the sense of taste, next smell, 
and, lastly, that of touch. 

Dr. J. C. Jackson, celebrated as a 
water cure practitioner in AVestern 
New York, says : " As a habit and 
fashion with our people we sleep too 
little. It is admitted by all those who 
are competent to speak on the subject, 
that the people of the United States, 
from day to day, not only do not get 
sufficient sleep, but they do not get 
sufficient rest. By the preponderance 
of the nervous over the vital tempera- 
ment, they need all the recuperating 
benefits which sleep can offer during 
each night as it passes. A far better 
rule would be to get at least eight 
hours' sleep, and, including sleep, ten 
hours of incumbent rest. It is a sad 
mistake that some make, who sujjpose 
themselves qualified to speak on the 
subject, in affirming that persons of a 
highly- wrought, nervous temperament 
need — as compared with those of a 
more lymphatic or stolid organization 
— less sleep. The truth is, that where 
power is expended with great rapidity, 
by a constitutional law, it is regather- 
ed slowly ; the reaction, after a while, 
demanding much more time for the 
gathering up of new force, than the 
direct effort demands in expending 
that force. Thus, a man of the ner- 
vous temperament, after he has estab- 
lished a habit of overdoing, recovers 
from the effect of such overaction 
much more slowly than a man of dif- 
ferent temperament would, if the bal- 
ance between his power to do and his 
power to rest is destroyed. As be- 
tween the nervous and the lymphatic 
temperaments, therefore, where excess 
of work is demanded, it will always 
be seen that, at the close of the day's 
labor, whether it has been of muscle 
or thought, the man of nervous tern- 



18 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



perament, who is tired, fiada it diffi- 
cult to fall asleep, sleeps perturbedly, 
wakes up excitedly, aud is more apt 
than otherwise to resort to stimulants 
to place himself iu conditions of pleas- 
urable activity. While the man of 
lymphatic temperament, when tired, 
falls asleep, sleeps soundly and unin- 
terruptedly, and wakes up in the morn- 
ing a new man. The facts are against 
tht! tlieory that nervous temperaments 
recuperate quickly from the fatigues to 
which their possessors are subjected. 
Three-fourths of our drunkards are 
from the ranks of the men of nervous 
temperaments. Almost all opium-eat- 
ers in our country — and their name 
is legion — are persons of the nervous 
or nervous -sanguine temperaments. 
Almost all the men in the country who 
become the victims of narcotic drug- 
medication, are of the nervous or ner- 
vous-sanguine temperaments. 

Dr. Cornell, of Philadelphia, in the 
Educator, gives the following opinion 
corroborative of the above as an ex- 
planation of the frequency of insanity. 
He says : " The most frequent and im- 
mediate cause of insanity, and one of 
the most important to guard against, 
IS the want of sleep. Indeed, so rarely 
do we see a recent case of insanity 
that is not preceded by want of sleep, 
that it is regarded as almost a sure 
precursor of mental derangement. Not- 
withstanding strong hereditary predis- 
position, ill health, loss of kindred or 
property, insanity rarely results unless 
the exciting causes are such as to pro- 
duce a loss of sleep. A mother loses 
her only child ; a merchant his for- 
tune; the politician, the scholar, the 
enthusiast may have their minds j)ow- 
erfully excited and disturbed ; yet, if 
they sleep well they will not become 
insane. No advice is so good, there- 
fore, to those who have recovered from 
an attack, or to those who are in deli- 
cate health, as that of securing, by all 
means, sound, regular and refreshing 
Bleep." 

A great deal of sickness may be pre- 
vented by knowing just what to do at 
the first premonitory symptoms. Many 



persons would take a simple reitedy 
immediately, if they only knew what 
that remedy was. But they will not 
send for a physician until they are 
nearly prostrated by the disease ; and 
again there are numerous little ail- 
ments causing great annoyance and 
much suffering, — little "pains and 
aches" that do not actually require 
the services of a doctor, — the remedy 
for which is generally known, but just 
at the moment it is needed the exact 
name of it, the proportion, or how it 
should be taken, is forgotten, and 
though not knowing where to turn to 
for the information, the disturbance is 
allowed to run on until it becomes se- 
rious, and perhaps quite difficult to 
cure. 

It frequently happens in country 
places, that persons, in sudden attacks 
of illness, find themselves beyond the 
early reach of a physician. To all 
thus situated, the following pages are 
submitted, not claiming for the reme- 
dies presented that they are "sure 
cures," or possess " fabulous virtues," 
but they are those which have been 
found most successful in the practice 
of the profession, and have been espe- 
cially adapted for family use by an 
eminent physician. If the directions 
given are carefully followed, much suf- 
fering and anxiety will be avoided. If 
the symptoms are severe, or the nature . 
of them not understood, consult a good 
physician at once ; remember that de- 
lays are dangerous, and in nothing 
more so than in sickness. And when 
you consult him, be careful to follow 
his instructions not only in the matter 
of medicine, but also in diet, exercise, 
etc. If he gives directions on these 
subjects, he has a reason for it, and 
they should be complied with. It is 
the experience of all physicians that a 
non-observance of these rules, in many 
cases, not only retard, but in some 
cases actually prevent a recovery from 
sickness. 

INFANTS. — As ours is a book espe- 
cially designed for the mother and the 
nufse, the treatment of children is one 
on which we shall naturally be ex- 



INFANT MANAGEMENT. 



19 



pected to dwell at considerable length. 
We shall, therefore, take the first stage 
of infantile existence as our starting 
point, and, in as brief and clear a man- 
ner as possible, explain the various 
operations and processes, means and 
measures, which are, or may be, ne- 
cessary for bringing a child safely 
through the difficulties and dangers 
of babyhood. How great are these 
dangers is shown by the well-ascer- 
tained fact that nearly half the chil- 
dren born in this country die before 
they reach the age of five years ; this 
is a fearful rate of mortality, and it 
would seem to indicate that, notwith- 
standing our high state of civilization, 
there must be something very defec- 
tive in the general run of our infant 
management : indeed, it has struck us 
as not unlikely that the too common 
practice of mothers in the upper, and 
sometimes in the middle classes of 
society, of delegating to others that 
most tender and delicate of the mo- 
ther's duties, viz., suckling the child, 
may possibly have something to do 
with this high rate of mortality among 
infants, and we would impress upon 
such of our readers as are mothers, or 
likely to become such, that nothing 
but the most urgent necessity should 
induce them to forego the performance 
of this most pleasing and sacred duty. 
Even if the child have all the aids and 
appliances that wealth can procure — 
a healthy wet-nurse, and the most care- 
ful possible of hired superintendence 
— it can never have the same advan- 
tages, and the same chances of escaping 
the dangers which beset its early ca- 
reer, as if it drew nourishment from 
the mother's breast, was nursed in the 
mother's arms, and watched over by 
the anxious carefulness of the mother's 
heart. There are cases we know, and 
many, in which the child must of ne- 
cessity be deprived of these advan- 
tages, and confided to the care of those 
who are not its natural guardians ; but 
there are many more cases in which 
there is no real necessity for such de- 
privation — only "the usages of polite 
Bociety require it." Far " more hon- 



ored," we would say, are such customs 
" in the breach than the observance." 
Mothers ! suckle your infants, if God 
has blessed you with the means of do- 
ing so ; if you have health and strength, 
and can by any possibility do it, watch 
over your tender nurslings, and bind 
them to you so closely by the cords of 
natural affection, that no after change, 
or circumstance of life, shall be able to 
loosen those blessed ties. But this is 
a digression into which we ought not, 
perhaps, to have been tempted, and 
from which we must return to the 
more practical part of our subject. 

Infant Management. — Directly the 
little creature has entered upon the 
stage of existence, and has been washed 
and dressed by the experienced hands 
of a careful nurse ; after the first feeble 
cry has been uttered — that cry that so 
thrills the mother's heart — it will be 
well content to be quiet for a while, 
wrapped in warm flannel, and placed 
in the maternal arms, or, if that may 
not be, between the blankets, or in the 
nurse's lap ; there will be a calm breath- 
ing, and a flush of life spread over the 
tiny face; and the eyes, which have 
only once yet looked upon the world 
will be closed in sleep. It is probable 
that, for many hours, the infant will 
be thus calmly sleeping, as motionless 
as Chantry's chiselled children ; one 
can only tell it lives by the heaving 
of the chest and the color in the 
slightly-parted lips and small linea- 
ments ; but at the end of some hours, 
sooner or later, there will be a slight 
restless motion, as the pulse of life 
grows stronger in the veins, and the 
demands of nature for sustenance are 
just beginning to be felt. The mother 
has, ere this, probably, sufficiently re- 
covered her strength to be able to take 
the child to her bosom, and holding it 
there in a loving embrace, she counts 
every tiny pulsation with a delight 
which only a mother can experience. 
But she cannot yet satisfy the want of 
which the infant is but half conscious, 
for unlike the lower animals, which 
can suckle their young directly they 
are born, the lacteal fluid will not flow 



2G 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



from her breast until the end of the 
Becond, or sometimes, even the third 
day. It is concluded by some that the 
mouth of the infant should not be ap- 
plied to tlie breast until that period ; 
but Dr. Marshall Hall says : " Let this 
application be made as soon as the fa- 
tigue of labor is perfectly over, if the 
mother is doing well. The child's 
mouth is softer than that of the nurse. 
The secretion of the milk will be 
greatly excited, and the milk secreted 
will be equally gently removed. There 
will then be no milk abscess — no milk 
fever in many cases in which these 
must otherwise occur. If the infant 
be not early applied, the breast be- 
comes swollen, and the nipple drawn 
in ; and nursing becomes at once diffi- 
cult and painful to the mother, and a 
source of fretfulness to the infant." 

It is very common for a nurse to 
give to an infant, a few hours after it 
is born, a very little thin, perfectly 
smooth oatmeal gruel ; this affords 
the necessary nutriment, and excites a 
gentle action of the bowels, and has 
the effect of relieving them of a thick, 
dark-colored matter, technically called 
meconium, which they contain at birth ; 
a drop or two of Castor Oil is also 
given, with or without the gruel ; this, 
perhaps, is scarcely necessary, but there 
IS no valid objection to it ; therefore, if 
it is the nurse's usual j)ractice, she 
need not be interfered with in the mat- 
ter. If, at the end of the first day, no 
sustenance can be obtained from the 
mother's breast, a little hikewarm fluid, 
composed of cow's milk and water, in 
equal proportions, and slightly sweet- 
ened with lump sugar, should be given 
in a feeding bottle, with a prepared 
calfs teat, or a nipple of India-rubber 
fitted to it ; by this the child's mouth 
becomes accustomed to the natural 
mode of obtaining nourishment; when 
this kind of food has once been given, 
it should be continued about every 
two hours or so, a very small quantity 
at the time — letting the child, before 
each feeding, endeavor to obtain it from 
the mother's breast first; as soon as it 
can do this, of course all artificial food 



should be put aside — that is, if the flow 
of milk is sufficient; if not, the breast 
and the bottle may be used alternately, 
for a while. " The mother's milk and 
the mother's warmth are the proper 
sources of nutriment and heat to her 
own infant ; it should lie on no other 
breast and in no other arms." And 
certainly, for the first six or eight 
months of infantile life, no other than 
the natural nutriment is required, pro- 
vided the supply of this be good, and 
sufficient in quantity ; should this not 
be the case, the question of artificial 
food will have to be considered, unless 
a wet-nurse is engaged, against which 
there are many objections, both eco- 
nomical and moral. 

To every mother, then, is to be com- 
mitted the care of her own infant, in 
its largest, broadest sense. She is the 
first to submit herself to all those rules 
of diet, medicine, exercise, and quiet 
which are essential to insure her own 
good health. She is then to supply 
her own infant with milk, and with 
warmth, and for this latter purpose, 
she should lay it bj' her own side in 
the night. She should, in the third 
place, become the superintendent of 
its health, detecting the first signs of 
indisposition, and seeking immediately 
for the remedy. 

Nor does the mother's office termi- 
nate even here. But she will go on to 
superintend the development of its 
mental powers, its dispositions and its 
affections. 

One of the most fruitful sources of 
disease, in the early days of infantile 
life, is improper management in rela- 
tion to diet, and a large proportion of 
the suffering and mortality which oc- 
curs during this period, arises from 
this cause alone ; and he points out 
very clearly and forcibly the necessity 
there is of nursing upon a regular 

Elan to insure ths present and future 
ealth of the child. 

" Milk ought to be the diet of in- 
fants for a certain time, and it alone 
will be sufficiently nourishing for 
nineteen out of twenty children — per- 
haps ninety-nine out of a hundred. 



INFANT MANAGEMENT. 



21 



Fewer children would perish, if so fed, 
than are destroyed by rushing into the 
opposite extreme of feeding them with 
more viscid food ; the use of farina or 
farinaceous foods for all infants under 
the age of nine months, and even in 
many beyond that, lays the founda- 
tion of future disease — the powers of 
assimilation in an infant not being 
suited for such food. Milk alone is 
the natural food, and this should be 
pure, not skimmed, nor previously re- 
duced by water — unless in the coun- 
try, where the milk is particularly 
rich, and then it may be reduced with 
one-third of water ; in warm weather 
the milk should be placed in the cool- 
est place that can be found; and 
should there be the slightest tendency 
to acidity observed, it should be at 
once rejected ; sweetening with sugar 
in such a case would but increase the 
evil." As to the temperature of the 
food : " Our great aim ought to be to 
follow as much as possible in the foot- 
steps of nature ; and as we may ob- 
serve that 96° or 98° Fahr. is the tem- 
perature of the mother's milk, so 
should we give it to the infant ; and 
for the purpose of regulating this, as 
well as the state of the atmosphere, a 
thermometer should be kept in every 
nursery. The milk should not be 
boiled, but a bowl or pitcher contain- 
ing it may be placed in boiling water, 
and so the required heat retained." 

In warm weather an infant might 
be taken out of doors when about a 
fortnight old; in winter it would not 
be prudent to expose it before it is at 
least a month or six weeks old, and 
then only if the day is fine, and for 
not more than twenty minutes ; if an 
east wind prevails, the child should be 
kept in-doors. Sleep should never be 
encouraged in the open air, nor should 
the glare of the sun be allowed to fall 
on its face; of course, the morning 
chill and evening damp should be 
avoided. When the infant does go 
out, let it be in the nurse's arms, not in 
a perambulator, that modern invention 
for the benefit of gossiping nurses, 
and for the destruction of infant life. 



With regard to the Diseases of In- 
fants, we may observe that the most 
frequent of these are — 1, disorders of 
the stomach ; 2, disorders of the bow- 
els; 3, exhaustion; 4, febrile affec- 
tions; 5, exanthematous diseases, or 
those which are attended with erup- 
tions of the skin ; 6, affections of the 
head; 7, diseases of the thorax, or 
chest ; 8, affections of the abdomen, or 
belly. 

Disorders of the stomach generally 
depend on improper diet ; or they may 
be secondary, iind the effects of a dis- 
ordered or confined state of the bow- 
els. They are often detected by acid 
or foetid eructations and breath, or by 
the unusually frequent regurgitation 
or vomiting of food. 

Disorders of the bowels can never 
be mistaken or overlooked by an at- 
tentive nurse, the evacuations, in their 
number and appearance, being the 
perfect index to these disorders. 

It must never be forgotten, that 
whenever the system has been exposed 
to sources of exhaustion, this condi- 
tion may become, in its turn, the 
source of varied morbid affections 
which are apt to be ascribed to other 
causes, and treated by improper, and 
therefore dangerous, measures. If the 
infant has had diarrhoea, or if it has 
been bled by leeches; or if, without 
these, its cheeks are, pale and cool; 
and if, under these circumstances, it be 
taken with symptoms of affection of 
the head, do not fail to remember that 
this affection may be the result of 
exhaustion. This important subject 
seems to have been generally misun- 
derstood. 

Fever is sooner detected. In every 
such case it is advisable not to tam- 
per nor delay, but to send for the 
physician, and watch the patient with 
redoubled care and attention. 

Especially examine the skin, hour 
after hour, for eruptions. It may be 
measles or scarlatina, etc. It will be 
especially desirable to detect these 
eruptions early, and to point them out 
to the physician. Above all things, 
let not a contracted brow, an unusual 



22 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



state of the temper or manner, unu- 
sual drowsiness or wakefulness, or 
starting, and especially unusual vom- 
iting, escape you. 

Be alive to any acceleration or la- 
bor, or shortness of the breathing, or 
cough, or sneezing, or appearance of 
inflammation about the eyes or nos- 
trils. These symptoms may portend 
inflammation within the chest, whoop- 
ing-cough, measles. Pain of the body, 
with or without vomiting ; or diar- 
rhoea, with or without a morbid state 
of the bowels, or of the discharges, 
ought also to excite immediate atten- 
tion. One caution should be given on 
this subject: some of the most alarm- 
ing and fatal affections of the bowels, 
like some affections of the head, are 
unattended by acute pain or tender- 
ness ; their accession, on the contrary, 
is insidious, and it will require great 
attention to detect them early. 

Another view, and another mode of 
the classification of the diseases of 
infants, full of interest, full of ad- 
monition, is — 1, as they are sudden; 
or 2, as they are itmdious ; or 3, as 
they are, in the modes of accession, 
intermediate between these two ex- 
tremes. 

Of the sudden affections, are fits of 
every kind, croup, and some kinds of 
pain, as that of colic ; of the second 
class are hydrocephalus, or water on the 
brain, and tubercles in the lungs or 
abdomen, constituting the two kinds 
of consumption. Fits, again, are cere- 
bral, and arise from diseases within 
the head, or from irritation in the sto- 
mach and bowels, or from exhaustion ; 
or they are evidence of, and depend 
on, some malformation or disease of 
the heart. 

Domestic treatment should never be 
trusted in such terrific affections as 
these ; not a moment should be lost in 
sending for the medical man. 

If anything may be done in the 
meantime, it is — 1, in either of the 



two former cases to lance the gums ; 
2, to evacuate the bowels by the warm 
water injection, made more active 
by the additon of brown sugar; 3, 
and then to administer the warm 
bath. An important point, never to 
be forgotten in the hurry of these 
cases, is to reserve the evacuation for 
inspection, otherwise the physician 
will be deprived of a very important 
source of judgment. 

In cases of fits arising plainly from 
exhaustion, there need be no hesita- 
tion in giving 5 drops of Sal Volatile 
in water ; light nourishment may be 
added ; the feet must be fomented, and 
the recumbent posture preserved. 

In fits arising from an affection of 
the heart, the symptom is urgent diffi- 
culty of breathing; the child seems 
as if it would lose its breath and ex- 
pire. In such a case, to do nothing is 
the best course; all self-possession 
must be summoned, and the infant 
kept perfectly quiet. Every change 
of posture, every effort, is attended 
with danger. 

Sometimes the attacks assume the 
character of croup ; there is a crowing 
cough, and breathing ; or there is dif- 
ficulty of breathing, and then a crow- 
ing inspiration. The former case is 
generally croup ; the latter is, in 
reality, a fit dependent on a morbid 
condition of the brain or spinal mar- 
row, although it takes the appearance 
of an affection of the organs of respi- 
ration. 

In either case it is well to clear the 
bowels by means of the slow injection 
of from a quarter to half a pint of 
warm water, with or without brown 
sugar ; indeed this is the most gener- 
ally and promptly useful of all our 
remedies in infantile diseases. To 
this the warm bath may always be 
added, if administered with due cau- 
tion. For instance, it should not be 
continued so as to induce much flush- 
ing or paleness of the countenance. 



EVERY ONE HIS OWN DOCTOR. ^ 

Proper Treatment for Children's Diseases — How to Relieve and 
Cure the many Ills that Flesh is Heir To — Sickness which may 
be Prevented by Avoiding the Causes. 



TEETHING. — In all the affections 
of infancy, whether sudden or other- 
wise, the suspicion should fall upon the 
condition of the gum and of the teeth- 
ing, and therefore it is desirable that 
the mother should make herself ac- 
quainted with the use of the gum-lancet. 

In many cases of convulsions, and 
other infantile affections, the use of 
this instrument affords the simplest, 
quickest, and readiest means of afford- 
ing relief. In any case of this kind, 
should there appear to be danger from 
delay, let the mother carefully pass 
her finger along the child's gum, and 
if it appears to be unnaturally tumid 
at any particular part, let her apply 
the instrument there. If the affection 
be a fit, it may be used whether any 
part of the gum is hard and swollen 
or not, simply as the easiest mode of 
relieving the system by blood-letting. 
A gum-lancet should always be kept, 
but should this not be at hand, a 
common lancet or a sharp pen-knife 
will do. Make a free incision along 
the course of the gums, down to the 
teeth, or socket, if there be none ; 
have the child's head held perfectly 
still, and be careful to guard against 
pushing the instrument too far back, 
so as to wound the throat. The op- 
erator should remember that perhaps 
the child's life depends upon the due 
performance of this duty, and nerve 
herself for the task. 

There are many diseases to which 
infants are liable, which are very in- 
fcidious in their advance, and present 



at first no very marked symptoms; 
but the watchful eye of the mother, 
or of a careful nurse, can generally 
detect the approach and progress of 
such — the countenance, manner, ges- 
tures, and motions of the child ; the 
peculiarities of iis cry ; the state of 
its secretions and excretions; all af- 
ford indications of this, or anything 
new or strange in either of these, is 
sufficient to give the alarm and excite 
inquiry. If there is a falling off in 
the looks, color, and flesh of the child, 
there is reason to apprehend the for- 
mation of tubercles in the lungs — the 
harbingers of consumption. 

The medicines and remedial means 
which must be kept for nursing, are 
few and simple. Rhubarb, Magnesia, 
and Manna for aperients, with Castor 
Oil ; a few Senna leaves also, for in- 
fusion, may be useful. Ipecacuanha 
Powder and Wine, as an emetic ; and 
for cordials, Brandy and Sal Volatile, 
the former, for exhaustion generally ; 
the latter, when this is connected with 
pain and irritation of the bowels. 
What shall we say about anodynes, 
but simply to warn against their use ? 
Except under the direction of the 
medical man. they sliould scarcely 
ever be given ; nevertheless, it may be 
prudent to have at hand a small bottle 
of Laudanum, of whicli, in violent and 
excruciating pain, a single drop may 
be given. If a carminative, Dill Water 
is the best, to be combined, where 
there is much flatulency, with Foetid 
Spirit of Ammonia, this, with a little 
23 



24 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Carbonate of Soda, for acidity of 
stomach ; Aromatic Confection for 
loose bowels ; and Poppies and Camo- 
mile for fomentations, may complete 
the stock of medicines, which should 
be kept under lock and key, and 
only administered by the mother, or a 
nurse who can safely be trusted. But 
the warm bath, the injection, and the 
tooth-lancing, are the safest remedies ; 
therefore, let tlie apparatus necessary 
for these be always at hand and ready 
for use. We have tkus, as we hope, 
indicated with sufficient clearness how 
to preserve the health of our infant, 
or detect the signs of disease, and to 
meet it when it comes. 

THRUSH. — This disease is common 
with infants who are fed improperly, or 
upon artificial food ; it consists of an 
eruption of small white or ash colored 
ulcers, on the inside of the mouth and 
edges of the lips, not unfrequently ex- 
tending to the throat and fauces ; it ia 
caused by irritation of the bowels, and 
generally gives rise to excoriations 
about the anus and nates. When 
these symptoms appear, nurses say it 
is " going through " the child, and in- 
dicate a speedy termination of the dis- 
ease. Under ordinary circumstances, 
and if sufficient attention be paid to it. 
Thrush is not a dangerous affection ; 
but if neglected, and sometimes if not, 
it assumes a gangrenous character, the 
ulcers increase in size and become livid; 
it is then much to be feared. 

JVeatment. — As this disease is nearly 
always attended with diarrhoea, some 
anti-acid and astringent mixture should 
be given, after, perhaps, one dose of 
Rhubarb and Magnesia ; the Com- 
pound Chalk Mixture of the Pharma- 
copoeia, with a few drops of Laudanum 
should the irritation be very great. 
To the eruptions of the mouth should 
be applied, with a camel hair brush, a 
little Honey and Borax, in the pro- 
portion of 6 drama of the former to 2 
of the latter; or, in aggravated cases, 
a lotion composed of Nitrate of Sil- 
ver, 1 scruple dissolved in 1 ounce of 
water. Dust over the excoriated nates 
and anus with Hair Powder, or dap 



them with Goulard Water, two or 
three times a day. If the child is at 
the breast, great attention should be 
paid to the diet of the nurse ; if not, 
the food must be at once simple and 
nutritious, milk forming the chief part 
of it : if the disease assumes a gangre- 
nous character, there will be great ex- 
haustion, and Beef Tea and Tonics 
will be required; for young children 
something like this : — Dilute Nitric 
Acid, Ij minims; Syrup of Orange 
Peel, 5 an ounce ; Infusion of Calum- 
ba, 1 dram ; Water, 3 ounces ; take a 
dessert spoonful twice or three times a 
day. 

CROUP. — This is an inflammation 
of the larynx and trachea, causing a 
difficulty of breathing, and a rough 
hoarse cough, with a sonorous inspi- 
ration of a very peculiar character, 
sounding as if the air was passing 
through a metallic tube : it most usu- 
ally attacks children of from one to 
five years. The first signs are merely 
those of a common cold or catarrh ; 
then comes on a dry cough with hoarse- 
ness and wheezing ; at night there is 
restlessness and rattling in the throat, 
after which the croupy crow and sound 
above spoken of give unmistakable 
warning of the disease, which goes on 
increasing in intensity for a day or 
two, or perhaps several days, before 
there is a really alarming paroxysm, 
which mostly occurs about midnight. 
The child, after tossing restlessly about, 
endeavoring in vain to sleep, will start 
up with a flushed face, protruding eye- 
balls, and a distressing look of terror 
and anxiety : there is a quick vibrating 
pulse, and agitation of the whole frame, 
which presently becomes covered with 
a profuse perspiration : as the struggle 
for breath proceeds, there is clutching 
of the throat as though to force a pas- 
sage, the arms are thrown wildly about, 
the respiration becomes more labored, 
the rough cough more frequent, and 
the characteristic Croup rings out like 
an alarm note. There is expectoration 
of viscid matter, but so difficult is it to 
be got rid of, that the effort appears to 
threaten strangulation ; gradually the 



children's diseases. 



25 



symptoms become weaker, and eventu- 
ally the child falls into the sleep of 
exhaustion. It will probably wake up 
refreshed, and during the day may ap- 
pear pretty well ; but at night again, 
probably there will be a recurrence of 
the attack with aggravated symptoms, 
convulsions, spasms of the glottis, 
causing the head to be violently thrown 
back, in the efl'ort to obtain a passage 
for the air through the windpipe ; there 
is a fluttering motion in the nostrils, 
the face is puffed and of a pale leaden 
hue; a film comes over the sunken 
eyes, the pulse becomes feeble and ir- 
regular ; there are more gasping con- 
vulsive efforts to continue the struggle, 
but in vain, the powers of life at length 
succumb, and the patient sinks into a 
drowsy stupor, which ends in death. 
Such is the frequent course of this 
painful disease, and the changes from 
bad to worse are so rapid that there is 
little time for the operation of reme- 
dies, that is, when the paroxysms have 
begun. 

Treatment. — Confinement to the house 
in case of threatened Croup is always 
advisable, unless the weather should 
be very warm and open, and then ex- 
posure after sundown should he avoid- 
ed; a dose of Calomel, about 3 grains, 
should be administered, and followed 
by nauseating doses of Tartarized An- 
timony, of which 1 grain may be dis- 
solved in an ounce of warm water, 
and a teaspoonful of the solution given 
every quarter of an hour, until the 
effect is produced ; should the bowels 
be confined after this, give Senna Mix- 
ture, or a Scammony Powder. Mus- 
tard and Bran Poultices to the throat, 
Leeches, if the patient is of a full habit, 
and the breathing is very labored ; and 
a spare diet are the other remedial 
measures. 

In the paroxysms, the most prompt 
and vigorous measures must be adopted 
to give any chance of success : bleed- 
ing in such quantity as to diminish the 
vascular action on the surface of the 
wind-pipe, and to relax the muscles ; 
strong emetics to cause full vomiting, 
which often has a most beneficial effect; 



warm baths, and blisters applied From 
one ear to the other. Calomel com- 
bined with Ipecacuanha Powder, or 
Tartar Emetic, should be given every 
four hours or so, and if the danger is 
extreme, counter irritation by means 
of Mustard Poultices applied to the 
calves of the legs, etc. In leeching 
for Croup, one leech for each year of 
the child's age is the general rule to 
be observed, and the best part is over 
the breast-bone, Avhere pressure can be 
applied to stop the bleeding if re- 
quired ; over the leech bites, apply a 
blister should one appear necessary. 
If the above powders should cause too 
violent an action on the bowels, add 
to them a little Chalk with Opium. 
Should the child appear likely to sink 
from exhaustion, after vomiting has 
been produced, stay the emetics, and 
give Liquor of Acetate of Ammonia 20 
drops, with 5 or 10 drops of Sal Vola- 
tile, or the same of Brandy in a little 
water, or Camphor Mixture; a little 
White Wine Whey may also be ad- 
ministered. Of course, the first endeavor 
in an attack of Croup should be to obtain 
medical assistance ; but if this cannot 
be procured, there must be no tempor- 
izing — resort at once to the remedies 
most ready to the hand, using them 
according to the best knowledge and 
discretion available. 

Let the contagious nature of Croup 
be ever borne in mind, and especial 
care taken to keep apart those affected 
with it from any other children in the 
family or house. Let it also be re- 
membered that the great agents in 
producing it are cold and moisture, 
and, the greatest of all, the east wind, 
and that those who have once been at- 
tacked by it are peculiarly liable to a 
recurrence of such attack. 

Croup is most likely to be fatal when 
inflammation commences in the fauces, 
and this, if discovered in time, may be 
stopped by the application of a solu- 
tion of Nitrate of Silver to the whole 
surface within sight, and to the Larynx. 

Spasmodic Croup, or Child Crow- 
ing, as it is often called, exhibits much 
the same symptoms as the Croup ; it 



26 



YOU ask! 1 ' Iv L T K L I. ! 



is not, however, of an inflammatory 
character, but is symptomatic of some 
other disease commonly coming on as 
a result of irritation caused by hydro- 
cephalus, teething, worms, etc. ; the 
medical man only can judge of the 
probable cause, and he will use such 
remedies as are most applicable to the 
peculiarity of each case. The follow- 
ing mode of treatment has been found 
efficacious in many cases of Croup ; it 
is simple and easy of application : 

" A sponge, about the size of a largo 
fist, dipped in water as hot as the hand 
can bear, must be gently squeezed half 
dry, and instantly applied under the 
little sufferer's chin over the larynx 
and wind-pipe : when the sponge has 
been thus held for a few minutes in 
contact with the skin, its temperature 
begins to sink ; a second sponge, heat- 
ed in the same way, should be used 
alternately with the first. A perse- 
verance in this plan during ten or 
twenty minutes produces a vivid red- 
ness over the whole front of the throat, 
just as if a strong mustard-plaster had 
been applied ; this redness must not 
be continued long enough to cause a 
blister. In the meantime, the whole 
system feels the influence of the top- 
ical treatment; a warm perspiration 
breaks out, which should be well en- 
couraged by warm drinks, as Whey, 
weak Tea, etc., and a notable diminu- 
tion takes place in the frequency and 
time of the cough, while the hoarse- 
ness almost disappears, and the rough 
ringing sound of voice subsides, along 
with the difiiculty of breathing and 
restlessness; in short, all danger is 
over, and the little patient again falls 
asleep, and awakes in the morning 
without any appearance of having re- 
cently suffered from so dangerous an 
fttlack. I have repeatedly treated the 
disease on this plan, and with the most 
uniform success. It is, however, only 
applicable to the very onset of the dis- 
ease ; but it has the advantage of being 
simple, efficient, and easily put in prac- 
tice, and its effects are not productive 
of the least injury to the constitution." 
An ordinary croupy cough is re- 



lieved by Castor Oil and Molasses, 
mixed together in equal quantities, 
and given in teaspoonful doses. 

Whooping - Cough. — This well- 
known disease is chiefly, but not wholly, 
confined to the stages of infancy, and 
it occurs but once in a life-time. It 
may be described as a spasmodic ca- 
tarrh, and its severity varies greatly ; 
sometimes being so mild as to be 
scarcely known from a common cough, 
at others, exhibiting the most distress- 
ing symptoms, and frequently causing 
death by its violent and exhausting 
paroxysms. 

The first symptoms of this cough are 
those of an ordinary cold ; there is 
probably restlessness and slight fever, 
with irritation in the bronchial pas- 
sages ; this goes on gradually in- 
creasing in intensity for a week or ten 
days, and then it begins to assume the 
spasmodic character ; at first the parox- 
ysms are slight, and of short duration, 
with a scarcely perceptible " whoop," 
but soon they become more frequent 
and severe ; a succession of violent 
expulsive coughs is followed by a long- 
drawn inspiration, in the course of 
which the peculiar sound which gives 
a name to the disease is emitted; 
again come the coughs, and again the 
inspiration, following each other in 
quick succession, until the sufferer, 
whose starting eyes, livid face, swollen 
veins, and clutching hands, attest the 
violence of the struggle for breath, 
is relieved by an expectoration. 

To weakly children, Whooping- 
Cough is a very serious malady — to all 
it is frequently a sore trial, but to them 
it is especially so ; therefore, great care 
should be taken not to expose them 
to the danger of catching it. That it 
is contagious there can be no doubt, 
and although some parents thinks 
lightly of it, and imagining their 
children must have it, at one time or 
another, deem that it matters little 
when, and therefore take no pains to 
protect them against it ; yet we would 
impress upon all our readers, who may 
have the care of infants, that a heavy 
responsibility lies at their door. It is 



CHILDREN S DISEASES 



27 



by no means certain that a child will 
have this disease ; we have known 
many persons who have reached a 
good old age and never contracted it ; 
and it is folly and wickedness, need- 
lessly, to expose those placed under 
our care to certain danger. 

Like fever, Whooping-Cough has a 
course to run, which no remedies, with 
which we are at present acquainted, 
will shorten ; the severity of the symp- 
toms may be somewhat mitigated, and 
we may, by watching the course of the 
disease, and by use of the proper means, 
often prevent those complications 
which render it dangerous, and this 
brings us to the consideration of the 
proper mode of 

Treatment. — The first effort should 
be directed to check any tendency to 
inflammation which may show itself — 
to palliate urgent symptoms, and stop 
the spasm which is so distressing a 
feature of the case. To this end, the 
diet must be of the simplest kind, con- 
sisting for the most part of milk and 
farinaceous puddings ; if animal food, 
it must not be solid, but in the form 
of Broth or Beef-tea ; roasted Apples 
are good ; and, for drinks, Milk and 
Water, Barley-water, weak Tea, or 
Whey. Care must be taken to keep 
the bowels open with some gentle 
aperient, such as Rhubarb and Mag- 
nesia, with now and then a grain of 
Calomel or Compound Julep Powder, 
if something stronger is required. An 
emetic should be given about twice a 
week, to get rid of the phlegm — it may 
be Ipecacuanha Wine or the Powder. 
To relieve the cough, the following 
mixture will be found effective : — 
Ipecacuanha Powder, 10 grains ; Bi- 
carbonate of Potash, 1 dram; Liquor 
of Acetate of Ammonia, 2 ounces ; 
Essence of Cinnamon, 8 drops ; Water, 
6J ounces : Dose, a tablespoonful about 
every four hours. 20 drops of Lauda- 
num, or 1 dram of Tincture of Hen- 
bane, may be added if the cough is 
very troublesome, but the former is 
objectionable if the brain is at all 
affected. 

For right restlessness, 2 or 3 grains 



of Dover's Powders, taken at bedtime 
is good ; this is the dose for a child 
three years old. Mustard Poultices to 
the throat, the chest, and between the 
shoulders, are often found beneficial ; 
so is an opiate liniment composed of 
Compound Camphor and Soap Lini- 
ment, of each 6 drams, and 4 drams 
of Laudanum. Roche's Embrocation is 
a favorite application, and a very good 
one ; it is composed as follows : — Oil 
of Amber and of Cloves, of each \ an 
ounce ; Oil of Olives, 1 ounce ; a little 
Laudanum is perhaps an improve- 
ment. This may be rubbed on the 
belly when it is sore from coughing. 
Difficulty of breathing may be some- 
times relieved by the vapor of Ether 
or Turpentine diffused through the 
apartment. In the latter stages of the 
disease, tonics are generally advisable. 
Steel Wine, about 20 drops, with 2 
grains of Sesquicarbonate of Ammo- 
nia, and 5 drops of Tincture of Conium, 
in a tablespoonfiil of Cinnamon Water, 
sweetened with Syrup, is a good form ; 
but a change of air, with a return to a 
generous diet, are the most effectual 
means of restoration to health and 
strength. 

Squinting, stupor, and convulsions 
are symptomatic of mischief in the 
brain ; in this case leeches to the tem- 
ples, and small and frequently repeated 
doses of Calomel and James's Powders, 
should be resorted to. Fever, and 
great difiiculty of breathing, not only 
during the fits of coughing, but be- 
tween them, indicate inflammation in 
the chest, on which a blister should be 
put, after the application of two or 
three leeches. In this case, the rule 
must be low diet, with febrifuge medi- 
cines, such as Acetate of Ammonia, 
Tartarized Antimony in Camphor Mix- 
ture, and Calomel and James's Pow- 
ders. For a slight attack of Whoop- 
ing-Cough, mix equal quantities of 
Castor Oil and Molasses ; give a tea- 
spoonful whenever the cough is trouble- 
some ; it will generally afford relief at 
once. 

Concerning the Whooping-Cough. 
— Mr. James Craig, of Newcastle- on- 



28 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Tyne, in England, has published a 
paper, in which, after adverting to the 
fact that twelve thousand two hundred 
and seventy-two persons died from 
Whooping-Cough in 1862, he states that 
during a recent visit he noticed in the 
most respectable Swedish journals a 
statement to the effect that Whooping- 
Cough can be cured by inhaling the 
air from the purifying apparatus in 
gas-works. One of these writers says . 
" This knowledge we have had from 
two or three mouths. I know a fam- 
ily where three children were cured 
by three visits to the purifying-house. 
Our most distinguished jjhysician for 
the diseases of children. Professor 
Abelin, has found the remedy equally 
effective on a patient of his own fam- 
ily. I have seen a boy from three to 
four years of age be cured by six 
visits, the first three only lasting ten to 
fifteen minutes ; the latter, on the con- 
trary, thirty to forty-five minutes." 
Mr. H. M. L. Blackler, of London, 
confirms this statement, and adds that 
the practice of sending children to 
gas-works to inhale the gas from newly 
opened purifiers has been adopted in 
France for two years past; and he 
says, from information obtained at va- 
rious works which he frequently visits, 
he infers that the cure for Whoop- 
ing-Cough is perfect. " It often occurs 
that as many as a dozen children are 
brought to the gas-works at one time, 
and the managers have now come to 
regard this new custom as part of the 
daily routine of business." 

Physicians in Hartford, Conn., have 
adopted with marked success this new 
method of treatment for curing chil- 
dren afiiicted with Whooping-Cough. 
The juvenile patients are taken on a 
tour of inspection to the city gas- 
works, and while intently engaged in 
witnessing the various processes em- 
ployed in manufacturing their even- 
ing's artificial illumination supply, 
they breathe the not very pleasant air 
of the gas-house. In some way, not 
very clearly understood, the inhaling 
of this air is found to cure or greatly 
alleviate the complaint. This ingeni- 



ous method of benefiting the youthful 
mind and body simultaneously has be- 
come immensely popular in the place, 
the people at the gas-works asserting 
that during the last twelve months no 
less than three hundred cases have 
been experimented upon, the results, 
generally, being of a most favorable 
character. 

To Prevent Squinting. — Some- 
times there is a tendency in children 
to squint ; it shows itself for a few mo- 
ments, occasionally only, at first, and 
can scarcely be noticed. The habit, 
for in most cases it is a habit, al- 
though an unconscious one, is gener- 
ally taken from having seen some 
cross-eyed person, and if not broken 
off will become permanent. Make 
two small paper ;ubes, about three- 
quarter inch diameter and two inches 
long. Make the inside of these tubes 
black, and apply them to the eyes in a 
similar way as a pair of spectacles. 
The only way then to see an object is 
to look straight, and both eyes will be 
directed to the light, and the tendency 
to look crossways removed. 

Cholera Infantum is greatly pre- 
valent in cities in hot weather ; i* 
is one of the most fatal diseases of 
children, occurring generally while 
teething. 

Cool pure air is one 0/ the best reme- 
dies. Let the room be large and dry, 
and in fine weather take the child into 
the open air ; if the child is weaned, 
let its food be arrow- root, tapioca, and 
milk ; keep the pores of the skin open 
by a tepid bath, or by sponging the 
body with warm water. Let the drink 
be Gum-water or some other mucila- 
geous liquid : this, if promptly attended 
to at the commencement of the disease, 
will generally be sufficient. If the 
vomiting continue, mix 1 dram of Cam- 
phor in 1 ounce Sulphuric Ether, and 
give 10 drops every half hour. As 
soon as the vomiting stops, give Syrup 
of Khubarb and Potassa, or put 2 
drams of Powdered Catechu and J 
dram bruised Cinnamon in half pint 
of boiling water, cover it over and 
steep for an hour. Give a teaspoon- 



OHIIiDREN'S DISEASES. 



20 



fill every three or four hours, accord- 
ing to age and severity of the case. 

COLIC. — At times children suffer 
intensely from these pains ; if it arises 
from costiveness, which may be known 
by the belly being hard and swollen, 
give an injection of warm soapsuds ; 
if from wind on the stomach, give j 
teaspoonful of Peppermint Water, or a 
small portion of Bicarbonate of Soda 
in a little sweetened water. 

Frequently a hot flannel applied to 
the belly (or warm the hand by the 
fire, and apply it with gentle friction 
to the stomach,) will give quick relief 

FITS arise from different causes, but 
generally indicate disturbance of the 
b'-ain. Fits are the sign of disease 
rather than a disease in themselves, 
and of course the treatment should 
have reference to the cause. If a child, 
p»"eviously healthy, is suddenly taken 
with a fit, place it in a warm bath, and 
at the same time apply a sponge dipped 
in cold water to the head : this will 
draw the blood from the brain and 
soothe the system, and if scarlet fever 
or measles are the cause, it will bring 
them out. 

MEASLES. — This is a contagious 
eruption, commonly affecting children, 
and the same individual but once. 

The first symptoms of Measles are 
shivering, succeeded by heat, thirst, 
and languor; then follows running at 
the nose, sneezing, cough ; the eyes 
water and become intolerant of light; 
the pulse quickens, the face swells ; 
there are successive heats and chills, 
and all the usual signs of catarrhal 
fev^. Sometimes the symptoms are 
so mild as to be scarcely noticeable, 
sometimes greatly aggravated ; but in 
any case, at the end of the third day, 
or a little later, an eruption of a dusky 
red color appears, first on the forehead 
and face, and then gradually over the 
whole body. In the early stage of 
this eruption, there is little to charac- 
terize it; but after a few hours it as- 
sumes the peculiar appearance which, 
once seen, can never be mistaken; the 
little red spots become grouped, as it 
were, into crescent -shaped patches, 
2 



which are slightly elevated above the 
surface, the surrounding skin retain- 
ing its natural color. On the third 
day of the eruption it begins to fade 
and disappear, being succeeded by a 
scurfy disorganization of the cuticle, 
which is accompanied by an intolera- 
ble itching. The febrile symptoms also 
abate, and very quickly leave the pa- 
tient altogether; but often in a very 
weak state, and with a troublesome 
cough. Between exposure to the in- 
fection and the breaking out of Mea- 
sles, there is usually an interval of 
fourteen days, which is called the pe- 
riod of incubation ; so that it is not 
uncommon, where there are several 
children in a family, for the cases to 
succeed each other at fortnightly in- 
tervals. 

Treatment. — Generally speaking, for 
simple Measles, little medicine is re- 
quired ; give the patient plenty of 
diluent drinks ; let him have a spare 
diet, and a moderately warm and well- 
ventilated room ; keep the bowels gen- 
tly open ; if a roasted apple or a little 
Manna in the drink will not do this, 
give a mild saline aperient, something 
like this : — Ipecacuanha Wine and 
Sweet Spirits of Nitre, of each 1 dram ; 
Tartrate of Potash 4 drams ; Solution 
of Acetate of Ammonia, 1 ounce; 
Syrup of Poppies, 2 drams; Cinna- 
mon or Dill Water sufficient to make 
4 ounces: Dose, a table or dessert 
spoonful, three or four times a day; 
should this not be sufficiently power- 
ful, substitute Sulphate of Magnesia 
for the Potash, and add 4 drams of 
Tincture of Senna. Where there is 
much heat of the skin, sponging with 
tepid vinegar and water will commonly 
relieve it, and also the itching. When 
the eruption has subsided, and the des- 
quamation of the skin commenced, a 
tepid bath will materially assist this 
process, and get rid of the dead cuticle. 
On the third or fourth day after the 
subsidence of the eruption, a powder 
of Calomel, with Rhubarb, Jalap, or 
Scammony, according to the habit and 
strength of the patient, should be 
given ; care should be taken to prO' 



30 



YOU ask! — i*LL tell! 



tect the patient against change of 
weather, and to restore the strength 
by a nourishing diet. Attention should 
be paid to the cough, and tlie proper 
remedies given if required. 

Sometimes the eruption of Measles 
disappears suddenly, then there is cause 
for alarm ; the patient should be di- 
rectly put into a warm bath, and have 
warm diluent drinks; if the pulse 
sinks rapidly, and there is great pros- 
tration of strength, administer Wine 
Whey and the following draughts : — 
10 drops of Aromatic Spirits of Am- 
monia, or 5 grains of the Sesqui-car- 
bonate in ^ an ounce of Camphor 
Mixture, with a drop of Laudanum, 
every four hours ; should the prostra- 
tion be very great, weak Brandy and 
water may be given. The state of the 
chest, head, and bowels should be 
closely watched for some time after 
the patient is convalescent, as disor- 
ders of these organs are very likely to 
occur. 

SCARLATINA is but another 
name for Scarlet Fever, although, 
popularly the former is considered a 
milder and less dangerous disease than 
the latter. It is scarcely possible to 
mistake this eruptive fever for any 
other ; almost invariably we have first 
?ore throat, with shivering, headache, 
ind loss of appetite ; probably there 
may be sickness and vomiting,with heat 
of skin, quick pulse, and great thirst. 
In about forty-eight hours from the 
commencement of the attack, we have 
an eruption of red spots on the arms 
and chest, these gradually become 
more thickly planted and widely 
spread, until they pervade the whole 
of the body, making the skin appear 
of one uniform scarlet tint, that is 
over the body generally ; in the ex- 
tremities it is more in patches, the 
ikin being perceptibly rough to the 
touch. On the second day, generally, 
the tongue presents the appearance of 
being covered with a white fi.lm, 
through which the papulae project as 
bright red spots, as we see the seeds 
on a white strawberry ; then the white 
creamy looking film comes away grad- 



ually, and leaves the tongue preter- 
naturally clean and red. On the 
fourth or fith day the eruption begins 
to fade, and by the seventh or eighth 
has entirely disappeared, and with it 
the febrile symptoms. Then com- 
mences the desquamation of the cuti- 
cle, which comes away in scales from 
the face and body, and in large flakes 
from the extremities. It is during this 
process that the greatest danger of 
contagion is to be apprehended, and 
until it is completed, the patient 
should be kept apart from the rest of 
the family : it may be hastened by 
tepid bathing and rubbing. Some- 
times, with scarlet fever, there is little 
real illness ; the patient feels pretty 
well, and in a few days would like to 
leave the sick chamber ; but it is al- 
ways necessary to be cautious in grat- 
ifying such a wish, both for the sake 
of the invalid and of others ; after an 
attack of this fever, as after measles, 
the system is peculiarly susceptible of 
morbific influences, and a chill taken 
at such a time may cause the most 
alarming results. 

Sometimes we have a great aggra- 
vation of the symptoms above de- 
scribed; the throat gives the first 
warning of the attack ; there is stiff 
neck, swelling of the glands, the lining 
of the mouth and fauces becomes at 
once of an intense crimson color; 
there are ash-colored spots about the 
tonsils; the general eruption is of a 
deeper color, and spreads more rap- 
idly than in the simple kind. This 
form of the disease is professionally 
termed Scarlatina anginosa. Then 
again we have the malignant form, 
with the rash in irregular patches of a 
dusky hue, which sometimes recedes 
and appears again. There is intense 
inflammation of the throat at the very 
outset, with general enlargement of 
the salivary glands ; the neck some- 
times swells to a great size ; there is a 
sloughy ulceration of the throat, from 
which, and the nostrils, through which 
it is difiicult to breathe, there comes 
an acrid discharge, causing excoria- 
tion of the nose and lips, and some- 



THROAT DISEASES. 



31 



times extending to the larynx and 
trachea, as well as to the intestinal 
canal, causing croup, vomiting, and 
purging. The poisonous secretion en- 
ters into the circulation and vitiates 
the blood; sometimes the sense of 
hearing, as well as of smelling, is en- 
tirely destroyed by the acrid matter 
coming in contact with, and inflam- 
ing, the mucous membrane. With 
this form of the disease it is extremely 
difficult to deal, and the patient often 
sinks beneath it in spite of the best 
medical advice and assistance. 

Treatment. — At first, mild aperients 
only should be given, with diluted 
drinks and a spare diet ; the patient 
should have plenty of fresh air ; the head 
should be kept cool by means of ice in 
a bladder, the hair being cut off or 
shaved. The following is a good febri- 
fuge mixture : — Carbonate of Ammo- 
nia, 1 dram ; solution of Acetate of 
Ammonia, 2 ounces ; Water of Camphor 
Mixture, 6 ounces : a dessertspoonful 
to be taken every four hours, for a child, 
(a tablespoonful for an adult.) 

If the throat swells much externally, 
and there are headaches, apply from 2 
to 4 leeches ; should the weakness be 
great, a Blister or a hot Bran Poultice 
must suffice. To gargle the throat, 
dissolve 1 dram of common salt in J a 
pint of water ; with children who can- 
not gargle, this may be injected against 
Ae fauces, or up the nostrils, by means 
of a syringe or elastic gum bottle. When 
the inflammatory action has ceased, 
and the skin is peeling off", it is neces- 
sary to take good stimulant and nutri- 
tious food, with tonics, such as Iron 
and Quinine, unless they cause bad head 
symptoms, in which case they must be 
discontinued, and the diet chiefly de- 
pended on. With regard to the more 
malignant form, but little more is to 
be done ; the depressing efiect of the 
contagious poison upon the whole body, 
and upon the nervous system especially, 
is so great as to defy all active treat- 
ment. If we can save such patients at 
all, it must be by the liberal adminis- 
trations of Wine and Bark to sustain 
the flagging powers until the deadly 



agency of the poison in some measure 
passes away. When the patient is not 
killed by the violence of the first con- 
tagion, the system is reinoculated with 
the poisonous secretions from the 
throat ; Wine and Bark must be dili- 
gently and watchfully given, the throat 
I injected or gargled (as above directed), 
and the most vigilant care observed for 
some time, should convalescence fortu- 
nately ensue. 

A dropsical affection is one of the 
most frequent results of Scarlet Fever. 
This seldom occurs, if the warm bath 
is daily used as soon as the skin be- 
gins to peel off". After the dropsy has 
set in, give the warm bath twice a 
week, and encourage perspiration by 
the Compound Tincture of Virginia 
Snake-root, from 10 to 20 drops (ac- 
cording to the age of the child), in a 
little warm herb tea. 

QUINSY.— This kind of inflamma- 
tory sore throat generally commences 
with cold chills, and other febrile 
symptoms ; there is fulness, heat, and 
dryness of the throat, with a hoarse 
voice, difficulty of swallowing, and 
shooting pains towards the ear. When 
examined, the throat is found of a florid 
red color, deeper over the tonsils,which 
are swollen and covered with mucus. 
As the disease progresses, the tonsils 
become more and more swollen, the 
swallowing becomes more painful and 
difficult, until liquids return through 
the nose, and the viscid saliva is dis- 
charged from the mouth ; very com- 
monly the fever increases also, and 
there is acute pain of the back and 
limbs. Sometimes, when the inflam- 
mation has reached a certain height, 
it gradually subsides, and the tonsils 
diminish with it, although they com- 
monly remain for a considerable time 
unnaturally large ; at others, there is 
a formation of abscess in one or both 
tonsils, and the patient suffers the 
greatest agony and distress, appearing 
often upon the point of suffocation ; 
and this continues to be the case until 
the abscess bursts, or is opened to al- 
low the matter to escape. 

Treatment. — When the case is not 



32 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



severe, it may be treated, in the early 
stages, like Catarrh ; but when it is, 
more active measures will be required. 
An emetic, followed by a strong pur- 
gative; a blister outside the throat, 
and warm bran or linseed poultices ; a 
cooling regimen with acid water, or 
pieces of rough ice put into the mouth 
and allowed to dissolve ; leeches at the 
side of the throat if it swells much ; 
inhaling the steam of hot water 
through an inhaler or an inverted fun- 
nel ; and the continuation, every four 
hours or so, of a saline aperient ; these 
will be the proper measures to adopt. 
When the abscess has burst, and the 
inflammatory symptoms have subsided, 
a generous diet will be necessary, with 
tonic medicines. If the tonsils con- 
tinue swollen, they should be rubbed 
outside twice a day with stimulating 
liniments ; Turpentine and Opodeldoc, 
equal quantities, will be as good as any ; 
and the throat gargled with salt and 
water, a teaspoonful of the former put 
into a tumblerful of th<» latter. When 
there is chronic soreness of the throat, 
with hoarseness and cough, there is 
commonly also a relaxed and elongated 
uvula, which closes the passage when 
the patient lies down, and causes a 
sensation of choking. In this case a 
gargle made with Salt and Cayenne 
Pepper (about a tablespoonful of the 
former, and a teaspoonful of the latter, 
in a pint of boiling water) should be 
tried ; the throat should be kept un- 
covered, and sponged with Vinegar 
twice a day. If these means are un- 
successful, it may be necessary to have 
part of the uvula cut off: this must be 
done by a surgeon, as must also the 
application of caustic, sometimes to 
be made when the throat has a granu- 
lated appearance. 

DIPHTHERIA comes on, in many 
instances, very suddenly, like cholera, 
influenza, and erysipela.s, without any 
warning symptoms ; in others, there is 
soreness of the throat, like tonsillitis, 
or of the naris, like catarrh ; or there 
is pain in the deglutition, like pharyn- 
gitis, or cynanche maligna ; shiverings 
are very irregular. 



The specific catise of the disease is 
atmospheric, as in cholera, influenza 
typhus, and potato rot. Debility, cess- 
pools, malaria, and all nuisances pre- 
dispose to it ; and all irregularities of 
regimen, cold drink when heated, sud- 
den changes of temperature, and over- 
exertion, are exciting causes. 

The principles of treatment are anti- 
septic and tonic, stimulant and nutri- 
tious. The capillary system should 
not be engorged with fluids, neither 
should anything evaporating be ap- 
plied to the skin. Blisters inflame 
and ulcerate; leeches debilitate and 
their bites slough ; and strong purga- 
tives cannot be borne. Temperate, 
dry, and well-ventilated bed-rooms are 
a desideratum ; a Calomel purgative, 
varying in strength with the age of 
the patient. In children, where there 
are symptoms of laryngitis, a rapid 
exhibition of the Chloride of Mercury, 
such as a grain or two every hour until 
the breathing is easier ; then every 
three or four hours until the false 
membrane is loosened, and the bowels 
evacuate green stools, or vomiting 
commences. It has been found that 
children who are teething have the 
most inflammatory symptoms. De- 
coction of Bark, with Hydrochloric 
Acid, varying the dose of the latter 
from one minim to ten every four 
hours, in from a teaspoonful to two 
tablespoonfuls of the former. Gargle 
with Chloride of Sodium and Vinegar, 
a tablespoonful of each in a teacupful 
of hot water ; also inject this up the 
nostrils when they become obstructed ; 
this relieves the breathing, destroys 
the fetor, and allows the ulcers to 
heal. 

Apply a stick of Nitrate of Silver to 
every part where the false membrane 
or exudation can be seen ; when the 
disease spreads beyond the caustic 
case, a probang and a clean sponge 
saturated with a strong solution of 
Nitrate of Silver will answer. 

Rub the external fauces with Com- 
pound Iodine Ointment night and 
morning, and, where erysipelas may 
appear, apply the Stick Caustic, and 



SKIN DISEASES. 



33 



lay on a plaster of strong Mercurial 
Ointment. 

Keep all about the patient sweet and 
clean, and give a nutritious diet — such 
as mutton, milk, rich gruels, and beef- 
tea ; and a warm Negus-compound of 
Port Wine and Water, equal quanti- 
ties, with Sugar and Lemon. All the 
drinks should be taken warm. 

The following treatment is said to 
be very efTcctual in croup : — Take a 
common tobacco - pipe, place a live 
coal in the bowl, drop a little tar upon 
tiie coal, draw the smoke into the 
mouth, and discharge it through the 
nostrils. 

Sore Throat. — This is commonly a 
symptom of inflammatory fever, and 
is often the result of a simple cold; 
some persons are peculiarly liable to 
it, and experience great difficulty of 
swallowing from relaxed Uvula. Some- 
times in Sore Throat there is simply 
inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane, and when this is the case it 
will, probably, pass away in a day or 
two, with a little careful nursing and 
aperient medicines. Should it extend 
into the air-passages, causing cough 
and catarrhal symptoms, it becomes a 
more serious business, and medical 
advice should at once be sought. In 
the meantime a Saltpetre gargle should 
be used, or Sal Prunella balls, one 
being put into the mouth occasionally 
and allowed to dissolve ; hot bran 
poultices may also be placed about the 
throat, which, at a later stage, may be 
rubbed with a liniment of Oil and 
Hartshorn. 

There is an erysipelatous form of 
Sore Throat which is highly danger- 
ous, and requires very active treat- 
ment : a strong gargle of Lunar Caus- 
tic must be used in this case, or the 
inflamed part must be pencilled with 
the Caustic in the stick ; if it extends 
to the larynx and air-passages, this 
frei][uently proves fatal. This is a dis- 
tinct form of disease from Diphtheria, 
which has proved so fatal. 

Small-Pox. — This, like Scarlet Fever 
and Measles, belongs to the class of 
eruptive fevers ; it attacks persons of 
3 



all ages, but the >oung are most liable 
to it. At no particular season of the 
year is it more prevalent than at any 
other, nor does climate appear to be 
influential in averting or modifying 
its visitations. When it occurs nat- 
urally, the premonitory symptoms are 
those of other fevers of itvS class ; there 
are usually cold chills, pains in the 
back and loins, loss of appetite, prostra- 
tion of strength, nausea, and sometimes 
vomiting ; with young children, there 
are sometimes convulsions. About 
forty-eight hours after these symptoms 
set in, an eruption of hard, red pimples 
begin to overspread the face and neck, 
gradually extending downward over 
the trunk and extremities. Each 
pimple is surrounded by the peculiar 
dull red margin termed areola, and 
has a central depression on the top, 
containing lymph ; at this period the 
eruption is decidedly vesicular, but 
it becomes afterwards pustular ; this 
change takes place on about the fifth 
day of its appearance, when the 
central depression disappears, sup- 
puration takes place, and the vessels 
are filled with matter, which shortly 
after oozes out and dries into a scab. 
In about ten days this falls off", and 
leaves a pale purple stain like a blotch, 
which gradually fades, unless the dis- 
ease has penetrated so deeply as to 
destroy the tru€ skin, in which case 
a pit, or, as it is usually called, a 
" pock-mark," remains for life. 

The primary fever of this disease 
lessens as soon as the eruption ap- 
pears ; but after this has left the face, 
and travelled downward, attacking suc- 
cessively the lower parts of the body, 
a secondary fever sets in, which is 
more severe than the first, and not 
unfrequently assumes a typhoid char- 
acter. 

Small-pox may be either distinct, 
sometimes called discreet, or confiuent: 
in the former case, the pustules are 
perfectly distinct from each other ; in 
the latter, they run into each other. 
This latter is the most dangerous form 
of the disease, the fever being more 
intense and rapid, and having no in- 



34 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



termission ; it goes ou increasing from 
the first, and frequently, by its violence, 
in nine or ten days so exhausts the 
system, that coma, delirium, and death 
ensue, preceded by convulsions, haem- 
orrhages, bloody stools, dysentery, and 
ali the train of symptoms which in- 
dicate that a virulent and fatal poison 
has entered into the circulation. 

By all this it will be evident that 
Small-pox is not a disease to be trifled 
with. As soon as the premonitory 
fever comes on an emetic should be 
administered, and followed by a pur- 
gative of a tolerably active nature ; 
then keep the patient on spare diet 
(certainly no meat), and give plenty 
of warm diluent drinks ; keep the 
bowels moderately open by means of 
saline aperients ; let the patient have 
plenty of fresh air, and sponge the 
skin with cool or tepid water, as may 
be most agreeable, to diminish the 
heat of the body. Sometimes there 
is not energy in the system to develop 
the pustules with sufficient rapidity; 
in this case, nourishment and stimu- 
lants should be given in the form of 
broths, wine, whey, etc. ; warm or 
mustard foot-baths should also be re- 
sorted to, and to allay irritability, a 
10 grain Dover's Powder may be 
atlministercd at bedtime, or a ^ of a 
grain of Morphine, in Camphor Mix- 
ture, A good nourishing diet will be 
required in the secondary stage of the 
fever, and if it assumes a typhoid 
character, the treatment should be 
the same as that of typhus fever. 
Frequently the face is much swelled, 
ai'.d the eyelids closed ; in this case, 
rub the latter with Olive Oil, and bathe 
the wliole with Poppy fomentation. 
if the throat is sore, use a gargle of 
Honey and Vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
of the former, 2 of the latter, added to 
a i pint of Water or Sage Tea. If 
tnere is mi:ch headache, cut the hair 
Cioce, apply mustard poultices to 
the feet, and a spirit lotion to the 
head • to reduce itching, apply to 
the eruptions a liniment composed of 
Lime water and Linseed Oil, equal 
quantities; to check diarrhoea, give 



Chalk Mixture, with 5 drops of Lauda- 
num in each dose; if perspirationa 
are too copious when the eruptive fever 
has subsided, take acidulated drinks. 
Smearing the eruptions with Mercurial 
Ointment, or puncturing each pustule, 
and absorbing the pus with wool or 
cotton, has been recommended to pre] 
vent the deep pitting which is sil 
great a disfigurement to the face. | 

There is no disease more certainly] 
and decidedly contagious than this ; 
after imbibing the poison, a period of 
twelve days generally elapses before the 
commencement of the fever, and dur- 
ing this time no inconvenience may 
be experienced. Besides breathing the 
effluvia arising from a person attacked, 
Small-pox may be communicated by 
inoculation with the matter of its pus- 
tules, and the resulting disease being 
of a milder character, this method was 
formerly much practised to guard per- 
sons from a spontaneous attack ; since, 
however, the introduction of Vaccina- 
tion by Dr. Jenner, this practice has 
been abandoned. This disease is fre- 
quently epidemic, and the statistics of 
its different visitations show that the 
mortality of those attacked who have 
not been vaccinated is 1 in 4, whilst 
of those who have, it is not 1 in 450 : 
a strong argument this for vaccination. 

To Prevent " Pitting " in Small- 
Pox. — The application consists of a 
solution of india-rubber in chloro- 
form, which is painted over the face 
and neck when the eruption has become 
fully developed. When the chloro- 
form has evaporated, which it very 
readily does, there is left a thin elastic 
film of india-rubber over the face. 
This the patient, feels to be rather 
comfortable thai?btherwise, inasmuch 
as the disagreeable itchiness, so gener- 
ally complained of, is almost entirely 
removed, and, what is more important, 
" pitting," once so common, and even 
now far from rare, is thoroughly pre- 
vented wherever the solution has been 
applied. 

If the above remedy is not at hand, 
paint the face twice a day with glycer- 
ine, this will likewise prevent pitting 



SKIN DISEASES. 



35 



VACCINATION.— Whether vac- 
cination is a protection in all cases, 
and through life, is a question of great 
importance. Probably the mild form 
of vaccina does not last thi'ough life. 
Most physiciaas advise to re-vaccinate 
once in about seven years. 

ITCH. — AH classes are liable to 
this disease, but it is most common 
among persons who neglect personal 
cleanliness. This little creature {aca- 
rus scabrei), in its natural size, is so mi- 
nute as to be scarcely visible to the 
naked eye. The most prominent symp- 
tom of the disease is a constant and 
intolerable itching ; it never comes on 
of itself, but is always the result of 
contact with an affected person. It 
first shows itself in an eruption of 
small vesicles filled with a clear wa- 
tery fluid, occurring princiiially on the 
hand and wrist, and in those parts 
most exposed to friction, such as the 
spaces between the fingers, and the 
flexures of the joints, etc. ; after a time 
it extends to the legs, arms, and trunk, 
but it rarely appears on tlin face. The 
insects are often found in the vesicles, 
but not always; hence some have 
doubted whether they are really the 
cause of the disease, although it is 
generally supposed that they are. 

The Itch is never got rid of without 
medical treatment ; but to that it will 
always yield, provided proper cleanli- 
ness be observed. Sulphur ia the 
grand specific for it ; it may be applied 
in the form of ointment, prepared as 
follows: Flowers of Sulphur, 2 ounces; 
Carbonate of Potash, 2 drams ; Lard, 4 
ounces : to be rubbed well in wher- 
ever the eruption appears, every night 
and morning; washing it off with 
soap and flannel, before each fresh ap- 
plication. The most effectual plan is 
to anoint the whole body, from the 
nape of the neck to the soles of the 
feet, and out to the ends of the fingers ; 
put on socks, drawers, flannel wrapper, 
and gloves, and so remain in bed for 
thirty-six hours, repeating the anoint- 
ing operation twice during that time ; 
then take a warm bath, and wash the 
whole person with soap and flannel. In 



mild eases, a sulphureous vapor bath, 
taken twice in twenty-four hours, with 
soap and warm water washing, will 
generally be sufficient. In obstinate 
ones, it may be necessary to resort to 
alterative aperients, a spare diet, with 
ointment, warm baths, and a lotion, 
made as follows : Dissolve 4 ounces of 
Sulphate of Potash in a quart of 
water, and add ^ ounce of Sulphuric 
Acid; to be applied warm, with a 
sponge, before the fire. According to 
an announcement made to the French 
Academy of Medicine, by M. Bonnet, 
Benzine rubbed on the affected parts 
will cure Itch in five minutes; the 
patient has only to take a warm bath 
after it, and lo ! he is clean. In 
France, also, an ointment composed of 
2 scruples of Naphthaline to 1 ounce of 
Lard has been found an effectual remedy 
for this troublesome disease ; but we 
hold that there is nothing like sulphur. 

RINGWORM has its seat in the roots 
of the hair,and is believed to be attended 
by the growth of parasitic fungi; its pre- 
disposing causes are any derangement 
of the general health from ill or undue 
feeding, breathing impure air, drink- 
ing bad water, uncleanly habits, scrof- 
ula. Its immediate or exciting cause 
is generally contact with those affected 
with it, or using combs or hair-brushes 
which they have used. 

Treatment. — Take a piece of white 
paper, fold it in the form of a funnel, 
light the. wide end, and hold it so that 
the smoke coming out of the small 
end will come against a plate. This 
moist black applied to the Ringworm 
will cure it, or if this is not conven- 
ient, apply creosote with a camel's hair 
pencil. 

Mr. Erasmus Wilson remarks, " that 
improper food is a frequent predispos- 
ing cause, and that he has observed it in 
children fed too exclusively on ve^e^ 
table diet," recommends in the waj 
of treatment that as soon as the irrita- 
tion appears to be subdued by sooth- 
ing means, such as warm poultices, 
etc., an ointment composed of 1 dram 
of Sulphate of Zinc to 1 ounce of Sim- 
ple Cerate, using also a Sulphate of 



36 



YOU ask! — I'j.L TELL.! 



Zinc lotion. The head, from which 
the hair has been previously removed, 
by shaving or close cutting, should be 
washed with soap once a day, and 
after being dried, anointed with Po- 
matum so as to keep the scalp moist 
with oleaginous matters. Dr. A. 
Thomson says "that the application 
which he has found most beneficial is 
a solution of 1 dram of Nitrate of Sil- 
ver in ^ an ounce of Diluted Nitric 
Acid. The diseased circles, after the 
scalp has been shaved, to be pencilled 
over with the solution, and in ten or 
fifteen minutes afterwards the parts 
should be well sponged, first with 
tepid water, and then covered with 
pledgets of lint dipped in cold water, 
and the evaporation diminished by 
covering the wet linen with oiled silk." 
He also says, " that in India an oint- 
ment composed of a dram of Powdered 
Nut Galls, a scruple of Sulphate of 
Copper, and an ounce of Simple Cerate, 
is said to prove most beneficial." 

Salt Rneum— Tetter— Shingles — 
popular names for diseases of the skin, 
which are a variety of Herpes. 

The eruption, which consists of vesi- 
cles in distinct clusters, upon inflamed 
bases, that extend a little beyond the 
margin of each cluster, is generally 
preceded by such constitutional symp- 
toms as loss of appetite, headache, 
cold chills, sickness, and accelerated 
pulse. Sometimes there is heat and 
pricking in the skin, and a sensation 
as though hot needles were thrust into 
it; or there may be a deep-seated pain 
in the chest. At times, however, the 
patient has no warning of this kind, 
and he is first made aware of the affec- 
tion by the appearance of red patches, 
with small elevations, clustered to- 
gether; these gradually enlarge, and 
become clear and glassy, being filled 
with a colorless lymph, which first 
turns milky and then concretes into 
scabs. As the crusts fall off, and the 
eruption disappears at one part, it fre- 
quently shows itself in the immediate 
vicinity, and so gradually creeps all 
over the skin ; sometimes there is a 
free discharge and ulceration. In 



some cases the clusters of eruptiou 
begin at the loins, and extend down- 
ward to the thighs and legs ; very 
commonly they form a sort of band 
round the waist, and hence, probably, 
the name given to the disease. From 
the twelfth to the fourteenth day is the 
time at which the scabs, if a cluster, 
may be expected to fall off", leaving the 
skin beneath red and tender, with little 
indented rings, where the vesicles have 
been. Generally the disease runs ita 
course in about three weeks ; it is not 
contagious, and may attack the same 
person more than once. Young per- 
sons between twelve and twenty-five 
years of age appear to be most subject 
to this disease, which, however, some- 
times attacks aged people. Summer 
and autumn are the seasons when it 
most prevails ; the cause of it is not 
very clear ; probably it may arise from 
sudden changes of temperature, and 
chills when in a heated state. For 

Treatment — We should recommend 
aperients to k^eep the body gently open, 
with a light and nutritious diet ; effer- 
vescing draughts, made with Bicarbon- 
ate of Potash instead of Soda ; if, as 
is sometimes the case, there is much 
pain, take Dover's Powder at bed- 
time, from 5 to 10 grains, according 
to age ; bathe the eruptions with Gou- 
lard Water, and dress them, when dis- 
charging, with Zinc Ointment, spread 
upon lint ; or a compound infusion of 
Gentian, 4 ounces, and Iodide of Po- 
tassium, I ounce, mixed, one teaspoon- 
ful taken after each meal, and 2 scru- 
ples of Naphthaline and 1 ounce of 
Lard spread on linen, and applied to 
the diseased skin twice a day, will do 
excellent service. Old persons gener- 
ally require tonics to improve the gen- 
eral health. 

ERYSIPELAS. — We will first say 
a few words as to the cause of this in- 
flammatory affection of the skin, which 
often commences very suddenly, and 
spreads with a rapidity truly alarming, 
especially when, as is often the case, it 
first makes its appearance on the head, 
face, or neck, and so involves some of 
the most delicate and susceptible oj> 



SKIN DISEASES. 



37 



gans of the human frame. Vicissi- 
tudes of cold and heat causing peculiar 
conditions of the atmosphere, may be 
named among the most common causes 
of this disease, which frequently ap- 
pears to originate in the slightest punc- 
ture or scratch of the skin, as also from 
wounds or sores ; it is very contagious, 
and its appearance in a hospital ward 
is greatly dreaded, as wounds and am- 
putated parts which, up to the time of 
this visitation, have been going on ex- 
tremely well, frequently assume an in- 
flamed, probably a gangrenous charac- 
ter, which leads to a fatal termination 
of the case. In a house where a con- 
finement is taking, or is likely to take 
place. Erysipelas should be carefully 
guarded against, as there is undoubt- 
edly a close connection between that 
and child-bed fever, which is so fre- 
quently fatal. On systems debilitated 
by any disease, whether acute or 
chronic, this inflammatory afiection 
appears to seize with peculiar avidity, 
and to spread through the tissues of the 
skin most rapidly ; it is when extend- 
ing beneath this that it constitutes what 
professional men term phlegmon, mean- 
ing literally to burn — then it is that 
purulent matter forms, the parts slough, 
or mortify, and gangrene ensues. No 
unprofessional person should attempt 
to tamper with this condition of things ; 
there must be a free use of the lancet 
to let out the morbid matter, and the 
most prompt and decisive line of ac- 
tion adopted ; if a limb is so affected, 
or any part that can be excised, its re- 
moval will probably be necessary to 
give the patient a chance for life. 

Among the predisposing causes of 
Erysipelas may be also mentioned 
want of cleanliness, insufficiency or 
bad quality of the food, and irregu- 
larity of living ; there may be heredi- 
tary and constitutional predisposition, 
and where this exists, the inflamma- 
tion is very easily excited, strong men- 
tal emotion, or a fit of inebriety, being 
sometimes sufficient to bring on an at- 
tack ; it often co-exists with or imme- 
diately follows some fevers, in which 
it may be presumed thac purulent 



matter enters into the venous circula- 
tion. 

The symptoms of an attack are usu- 
ally of a febrile character, such as 
shivering, headache, furred tongue, ac- 
celerated pulse, and often derangement 
of the stomach for a day or two pre- 
viously ; then there is a tingling and 
burning sensation, with stiffness and 
pain at some particular part, followed 
by a discoloration of the skin, and a 
slight elevation of the surface ; the 
red or purplish tint is confined at first 
to one spot, but soon extends itself, 
and includes the limb or part affected ; 
frequently this is the head, which, with 
the face, becomes so swollen and dis- 
figured that the patient cannot be re- 
cognized ; the eyelids puff" out and en- 
tirely close the eyes, and each avenue 
to the senses is for a time closed. In 
very bad cases delirium and coma come 
on, and death ensues from effusion on 
the brain ; sometimes the patient dies 
from suffocation, the glottis being 
closed, on account of the internal 
swelling of the throat; and all this 
may take place in a few hours, so rapid 
is the progress of the disease. In the 
milder forms, the patient may be tran- 
quil ; until the swelling subsides, there 
will be a little wandering of the mind 
probably, more particularly at night, 
and uneasy restlessness from the pain 
and inconvenience of the swelling. As 
the redness extends from the part first 
affected, that part becomes paler, the 
swelling there subsides, and sometimes 
vesicles, like those caused by a scald, 
appear on the surface ; if the inflamma- 
tion is merely superficial, it is neither 
very troublesome nor dangerous ; but 
when it becomes phlegmonous — that 
is, dips down and affects the deeply- 
seated tissues — there is great cause for 
alarm ; when this is the case, the color 
is generally very florid, the tingling and 
the burning sensation severe, and the 
surface hard and firm to the touch. 
The young and sanguine are most 
likely to be affected in this way ; those 
of a feebler habit more commonly 
suffer from the edematous form of the 
disease ; in this, the parts affected are 



38 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



of a paler red, and softer and inelastic, 
so that they pit on pressure. 

Treatment. — Rest, mild diet, and 
gentle laxatives, such as Salts and 
Senna, or Rhubarb and Magnesia, to 
subdue the fever ; then, in mild cases, 
apply to the inflamed skin Powdered 
Starch, Magnesia, or Arrowroot ; in 
more severe cases, wash the surface 
with soap and water, and well dry it, 
then apply Caustic. To do this, moisten 
the skin with clear water, and apply 
Nitrate of Silver, being careful to go 
an inch beyond the inflamed part on 
every side, to stop the spread of the 
inflammation. After this, a lotion of 
Lunar Caustic, made by mixing 1 
scruple of Nitrate of Silver in 1 ounce 
of water, may be applied with a 
camel's hair brush over the whole in- 
flamed surface. 

The powers of the system are gen- 
erally reduced. Tonics, such as Iron, 
Quinine, or Wine are required. 

Grubs or Worms on the face, gen- 
erally called Acne or Spotted Acne. The 
tumors which arise from this disease 
occur chiefly in the face ; they contain 
a thick, cheesy matter, which it is difii- 
cult to get rid of, on account of its 
consistency, and the small opening af- 
forded for its egress. 

Acne has four distinct forms of de- 
velopment: — 1st. Simple Pimple,which 
is its mildest form, and is almost con- 
fined to persons between the ages of 
fifteen and thirty, at which period of 
life it is very prevalent. It may be 
considered as a form of inflammation 
set up by nature to rid the system of 
the superfluous matter accumulated in 
the follicles ; — first appear red spots on 
the skin, accompanied by itching and 
irritation ; these gradually swell into 
unsightly pustules, which in a short 
time discharge their contents; the in- 
flammation then subsides, and the skin 
resumi's its usual appearance. If pro- 
per attention is not paid to these pim- 
ples, and dirt is suffered to get into them, 
the disease assumes its second form. 
Spotted or Maggot Pimples, on account 
01 the little black specks, like the heads 
of maggots, which present themselves. 



When several of the follicles become 
inflamed together, and a hardening of 
their bases ensues, we have, thirdly, 
Stone Pock, as it is commonly called ; 
and if the pimples become very red, or 
coppery, then it is called, fourthly, 
Rosy-drop, Carbuncle -face, Brandy- 
face, Copper-nose. 

Treatment. — The great object is to 
obtain a free discharge of the ofiend- 
ing matter, and to remove the cause 
by exciting the tissues of the skin to a 
healthy action; hence frequent wash- 
ing is desirable, and friction applied 
gently, so as not to break the pustules, 
and cause them to run one into another, 
producing wounds difficult to heal. 
A sponge and warm water, in which 
has been dissolved a small quantity of 
Bicarbonate of Soda, and afterwards a 
soft thick towel, are the best cleansing 
adjuncts ; and for a lotion to cool the 
inflamed parts and allay irritation, 
take Goulard's Extract, or Liquor of 
Acetate of Lead, 1 dram, added to 8 
ounces of Elder-flower, or Rose-water ; 
or else, to the same quantity of the 
latter, add Glycerine, ^ an ounce; 
Chloride of Zinc, 12 grains. Dip a 
piece of lint into either of these lotions, 
and moisten the pustules therewith fre- 
quently. When the disease is obsti- 
nate, and especially if it assumes the 
red appearance, it is well to apply Col- 
lodion with a camel-hair brush to the 
eruptions occasionally, and to use a 
stronger form of the last of the above 
lotions, with a dressing at night of 
stimulating ointment, composed of 
Ointment of Zinc, and of Nitrate of 
Mercury, in the proportion of 1 dram 
of the former to 1 ounce of the latter, 
with 4 drops of Creosote added. Care 
should be taken to keep up a proper 
action of tlije liver and kidneys, that 
the skin may have only its own work 
to do in removing the impurities of 
the blood. The system should be 
strengthened by tonics, and a generous 
but not over full diet; it is best to 
avoid fermented liquors. The follow- 
ing is a good mixture: — Spirit of 
Nitric Ether, 2 drams ; Liquor of Pot- 
ash and Ipecacuanha Wine, of each 1 



BRAIN AND NERVE DISEASES. 



39 



dr&m ; Syrup of Rhubarb, ^ au ounce ; 
Infusion of Gentian, 7 ounces : take 
two tablespoonfuls two or three 
times a day, and one of the following 
pills every second or third night : — 
Compound Rhubarb Pill, 2 scruples ; 
Mercurial or Blue Pill, 12 grains ; 
make into 12 pills. 

Bilious, or Sick Headache, is, 
perhaps, the most common of any ; 
it generally begins in the morning, 
and is often relieved by a strong cup 
of tea or coffee. It is caused by a de- 
fective action of the digestive organs. 
The pain usually commences on one 
side of the head just over one of the 
eyes ; if it continues long it is diffused 
over the whole head, accompanied by 
a sickness at the stomach, and some- 
times vomiting, and extreme languor 
and depression of spirits : singing in 
the ears, dimness of sight, confusion, 
and great restlessness, are often its 
attendants. Evacuating the bowels, 
either with or without medicine, re- 
lieves the most urgent symptoms, but 
it is generally desirable to take some 
active aperient. On going to bed at 
night, take a 5-grain Blue Pill, and 
in the morning, a Seidlitz Powder. 
Generally there will be no Headache 
the next day, but it will probably 
return as severe as ever in a few 
weeks, iis recurrence in isome cases 
being at almost regular periods. It 
can generally be traced to some error 
in diet, such as taking food that is 
indigestible, or in too large quantities, 
or stimulating drinks, with insufficient 
exercise. Very often it arises from 
some derangement of the biliary secre- 
tions, either as to quantity or quality, 
or defective assimilation, sometimes 
from the habitual abuse of purgatives, 
which enfeebles the tone of the ali- 
mentary canal. " Under these latter 
circumstances it is," as Dr. Elliott 
observes, " a most intractable com- 
plaint. " Very commonly a simple 
dose of Rhubarb and Magnesia, with 
about 30 drops of Sal Volatile, will 
remove a common Sick Headache ; 
but when there is nausea, and vomit- 
ing or purging does not come sponta- 



neously to remove it, the former should 
be excited by an emetic, composed 
of 1 grain of Tartarized Antimony 
and 20 of Ipecacuanha, and after this 
has acted, a Rhubarb and Blue Pill. 
Persons subject to this kind of Head- 
ache should carefully abstain from 
fat meats, pastry-, butter, and rich food 
generally. 

That which we have just been 
describing is one of the forms of Sym- 
jyathefic Headache, sympathy with a 
disordered stomach being the im- 
mediate cause ; sometimes an excess 
of alkali, at others of acid in the ali- 
mentary canal, will produce this : in 
the former case, a vegetable acid, 
such as Vinegar, will afford relief; 
in the latter case, in which there is 
likely to be heart-burn and acid eruc- 
tations, a dose of Sal Volatile, or of 
Carbonate of Soda, or Potash, will be 
the best remedy. In all these cases, 
it seems likely that the blood circulat- 
ing in the brain is both mechanically 
and chemically affected by the defec- 
tive action of the assimilative and 
secretive organs of the stomach. We 
sometimes finfJ'thatthe postponement 
of the customary evacuation of the 
bowels, for ever so short a time, will 
cause a Sympathetic Headache, and 
that this will be relieved directly the 
evacuation has taken place — a clear 
proof of the intimate connection there 
is between the head and the 
stomach. 

Congestive Headache. — So called 
because it proceeds from a congested 
state of the vessels of the brain ; 
arising either from an over-fulness 
of blood, or a weakness of the organ, or 
from an excessive nervous irritability, 
which frequently upsets the balance 
of the circulation. Whichever of 
these may be the case, there is nearly 
always a dull pain over the whole 
of. the head, which is worst at the fore 
and hind parts. When it arises from 
an over-loaded condition of the vessels, 
there is usually a bloated countenance, 
with full red eyes, and a dull inani- 
mate expression ; here we find, on 
inquiry, a sluggish liver, and inflam- 



40 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



mation of the brain, tending to apo- 
plexy or paralysis. 

Leeches to the temples, or cupping 
on the back of the neck ; cold appli- 
cations to the liead, with spare diet, 
mercurials, and active aperients, will 
be the proper treatment. 

A weak brain is generally a conse- 
quence of some long standing dis- 
charge which has debilitated the whole 
system, and in this condition of 
things, if from any cause there is 
a more than common flow of blood to 
the brain, there will be Headache, 
with a pale, sallow countenance, and 
a languid pulse ; frequently swelled 
feet, excessive fatigue on the slightest 
exertion, with palpitation of the heart, 
and increase of pain in the head. 
Here measures of depletion would be 
improper ; we must soothe and sustain 
by means of sedatives and tonics, such 
as Conium and Quinine, either in the 
form of pills or mixture, as follows : — 
Take of Extract of Conium, 24 grains. 
Sulphate of Quinine, 12 grains, make 
into 12 pills and give 1 three times a 
day, or Sulphate of Quinine, 12 
grains, Sulphuric Acid, diluted, 12 
minims. Tincture of Conium, 2 drams. 
Infusion of Gentian, 6 ounces ; take a 
tablespoonful three times a day. Good 
nourishing food will be required in 
this case, and stimulants, such as Ale 
and Wine, in moderation. Where the 
Headache proceeds from nervous ir- 
ritability, the mode of treatment must 
also be soothing and strengthening ; 
but in this case we must avoid stimu- 
lants as much as possible ; tonics are 
best here, with plenty of fresh air and 
exercise, and all that tends to invigo- 
rate the frame. 

Rheumatic Headache is com- 
monly caused by exposure to cold, es- 
pecially a draught of air; the pain is 
chiefly confined to the back and front 
of the head, and is felt most at night 
when the patient is warm in bed ; it is 
a remittent shitting pain, shooting 
from point to point, following the 
downward course of the jaw, whose 
muscles are commonly imj)licated. 
Take a lifjht diet, wear warm cloth- 



ing, avoid exposure, wet feet, oi 
dampness. When the local pain is 
great, apply hot fomentations, or a 
mustard poultice, to the back of the 
neck. 

Periodic Headache, Brow-ache, 
Brow-ague, or Neuralgia of the 
Head, as it is variously called, is an 
intermitting pain, which comes on at 
periods more or less regular, and is 
confined to the brow. It will nearly 
always yield to full doses of Quinine, 
especially if combined with Conium. 

Organic Headache, resulting from 
actual disease of the head itself, is 
rare, and when it does occur, only a 
palliative mode of treatment can be 
adopted. Sedatives, such as Opium 
and Conium, may, for a time, relieve 
the almost intolerable anguish, but 
they will not touch the disease itself. 

We have now adverted to the Bil- 
ious or Sick Headache, sometimes 
called the Sympathetic or Dyspeptic; 
also to the Congestive, the Rheumatic, 
the Periodic, and the Organic Head- 
aches, these being the princij^al classes 
into which Cephalagia, as it is some- 
times called, can be divided. Let us 
in conclusion enumerate the distinct 
and specific causes to which pain in 
the head maj"^ be assigned: Rheu- 
matic Inflammation of the Pericra- 
nium, or of the Mucous Membrane of 
the Frontal Sinus ; Mental excite- 
ment ; Strong or long continued im- 
pressions upon the senses of Hearing, 
Sight, or Smell ; Excessive Impetus of 
Blood to the Head ; Impeded return 
of the same ; Congestion or Inflamma- 
tion of the Brain ; Suppression of 
Bile, Perspiration, Urine, etc. ; Or- 
ganic Disease of the Head ; Sympa- 
thy with the Stomach, and Consti- 
pation ; Frequent use of Narcotics 
or Stimulants ; Intestinal Worms ; 
Changes in the Atmosphere, and Neu- 
ralgia. 

Delirium Tremens is generally the 
result of excessive and continued in- 
dulgence in intoxicating drinks; it 
consists of an exhausted condition of 
the nervous system, and is accom- 
panied with more or less of mental 



BEAIN AND NERVE DISEASES 



41 



disorder. The taking of opium for a 
considerable period will also sometimes 
produce this state of nervous exhaus- 
tion, which is called Brain Fever ; the 
French term it Delirium et mania ipotu. 
There is a similar disease, called D. 
Tramalicum, which sometimes occurs 
after serious accidents and operations. 
The symptoms of Delirium Tremens 
are great restlessness and irritation by 
day, and by night want of sleep, or 
uneasy slumbers, haunted by frightful 
dreams, causing the patient often to 
scream out in terror; the mind is 
haunted by suspicions of those around, 
and although generally more collected 
than in other forms of Delirium, ap- 
pears at times to be possessed of de- 
mons, which torment the patient with 
wild visions of seas of flame advancing 
to overwhelm him, and belts and rings 
of fire encircling him, and threatening 
destruction ; legions of mocking spirits, 
too, come around him ; he is tormented 
with unquenchable thirst, and the 
stings of a guilty conscience goad the 
poor inebriate almost to madness ; he 
slirieks and raves, prays and curses all 
in the one breath ; and when he sinks 
exhausted, finds no solace in sleep, 
which refuses to visit his hot and ach- 
ing eyes, and agonized and trembling 
frame. As the disease advances, the 
mind becomes more and more dis- 
ordered, the temporary Delirium prob- 
ably passes into actual insanity ; 
then ensue convulsions, probably epi- 
lepsy or apoplexy, leading to a death- 
like stupor, which is but the prelude 
to death itself. 

What can be done in such a case ? 
The treatment must, of course, be of a 
soothing character : Opium, in full 
doses, either in the form of Morphine 
or Battley's Solution, should be ad- 
ministered; if, as is sometimes the 
case, the stomach is too irritable to re- 
tain liquid medicine, give the Gum 
Opium, in a pill, a grain and a half as 
a first dose, to be followed by half-grain 
doses every hour or so ; a drop of 
Creosote on a lump of sugar, may also 
be given, to stay the sickness, or an 
effervescing draught with a drop of 



Hydrocyanic Acid in it. As the liver 
is generally more or less affected in 
this disease, a little Calomel should 
be got down, about three grains placed 
on the tongue, if pills cannot be taken ; 
if they can, make six with the above 
quantity of Calomel and half a dram 
of compound Colocynth pill ; take two 
first, and one every two hours after, 
until they operate. Some recommend 
combining the Opium with these ; if 
this is done, it is best to add a grain 
and a half of Morphine to the above 
formula. 

If these efforts are successful, and 
the nervous excitement is subdued, 
there will be great prostration of 
strength ; the great object will then be 
to restore the tone of the stomach, and 
to enable the patient to overcome that 
craving for alcoholic stimulants, which 
is sure to send him back into the paths 
of intemperance if it is indulged ; a 
Bitter Infusion of Camomile is per- 
haps the best, but Carbonate of Soda, 
or Potash, in six or eight grain doses, 
should be given, with a small portion 
of alcohol, it may be Brandy mixed 
with yolk of an egg, beaten up raw, cr 
with arrowroot, some bitter ale, and 
good nourishing food. 

A Drunkard's Cure. — Some 
months ago, a gentleman advertised 
that he had discovered a sure specific 
for the cure of drunkenness. He would 
not divulge the secret of what com- 
pounds he used, but ftirnished the 
medicine at so much per bottle. He did 
not have so many applicants for cure 
as he expected, considering the extent 
of the disease. In fact, the more ma- 
lignant cases did not seem anxious for 
relief. They rather appeared to enjoy 
their malady. A few, however, placed 
themselves under treatment, and some 
were cured — whether by taking the 
medicine or by not taking strong 
drinks, we are not prepared to say. 
One of the cured ones had faith in the 
medicine, rigidly carried out the 
directions of the doctor, and now has 
not the least taste for intoxicating 
drinks ; whereas, one year ago, he 
was an inebriate, and could not get 



42 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



along with less than from a pint to a 
quart of whiskey per day. 

He said that he had, at some trou- 
ble and expense, procured the recipe 
for the preparation of the medicine, 
which he had published for the benefit 
of suffering humanity. It is as follows : 
Sulphate of Iron, 5 grains ; Pep- 
permint-water, 11 drams ; Spirit of 
Nutmeg, 1 dram, mix in a pint of 
water. This preparation acts as a tonic 
and a stimulant, and so partially sup- 
plies the place of the accustomed 
liquor, and prevents that absolute 
physical and moral prostration that 
follows a sudden breaking off from the 
use of stimulating drinks. It is to be 
taken in quantities equal to an ordi- 
nary dram, and as often as the desire 
for a dram returns. 

APOPLEXY. — This is depriva- 
tion of life or motion by a sudden 
stroke, or blow; it is one of the most 
awful and appalling modes of sudden 
death ; in an instant a healthful and 
vigorous man is smitten down — one 
who has exhibited no signs of disease 
—who has perhaps received no pre- 
monitory warning, lies before us mo- 
tionless and stark. 

Apoplexy may be either cerebral, 
proceeding from congestion or rupture 
of the brain, or pulmonary, proceeding 
from haemorrhage into the parenchyma 
of the lungs. The first is its more 
common form. 

The causes of Apoplexy are either 
predisDosing or exciting ; among the 
first may be named — 1 st. Sex : men are 
more liable to it than women, because 
they are more subject to its exciting 
causes. — 2d, Age: it is very rare in child- 
hood, rare also in youth, most common 
between the ages of forty and seventy, 
rare much beyond the latter age. — 3d, 
Bodily conformation : the man of san- 
guine and plethoric temjierament, with 
large head, short neck, and full chest, 
is most liable to its attack, although 
one of the opposite state and condition 
of system is sometimes smitten down 
by it. — 4th, Mode of Life: persons of 
sedentary habits, who live luxuriously, 
are its frequent victims. — 5th, Sup- 



pression of Evacuations or Eruptions, aa 
the piles, perspiration, healing of a 
seton, or a wound. — 6th, Mental 
Anxiety: such as a long continuance 
of harassing fears, business perplexi- 
ties, grief, or any violent emotion, or 
passions. All these are predisposing 
causes of Apoplexy, to which it has 
been said that the studious are more 
liable than others ; but this is an error, 
as the history of lawyers, judges, and 
philosophers, ancient and modern, is 
sufficient to show. Persons of advanced 
age, who take rich and stimulating 
diet in more than sufficient quantity, 
and whose intellectual faculties are ex- 
ercised but little, are those most 
frequently carried off by this embodi- 
ment of the Greek idea of the 
"skeleton at a feast." The most 
powerful exciting causes of Apoplexy, 
then, are intemperance, whether in 
eating or drinking, as well as violent 
exertions of the mind and body; what- 
ever, in short, tends to determine the 
blood Avith an undue impetus to the 
brain, or impedes its return from it, is 
an invitation to this dreadful destroyer 
to step in and arrest the vital current 
in its flow, as the breath of frost stays 
the water of the river. 

Treatment. — This, of course, must 
vary considerably, in accordance with 
the pathological condition of the brain 
of the person attacked, and with other 
circumstances which only those accus- 
tomed to the treatment of disease can 
judge of The immediate measures to 
be adopted when a fit of Apoplexy 
comes on, which may be known by the 
patient falling down in a state of in- 
sensibility or stupor, out of Avhich it is 
impossible to rouse him by any of the 
ordinary means; the face is generally 
flushed, the breathing diflicult and 
stertorous, the upper lip-margin ia 
projected at each expiration, the veins 
of the head and temples protrude as 
though overfilled, the skin is covered 
with perspiration, and the eyes are 
fixed and bloodshot: sometimes, how- 
ever, the face is pale, with a look of 
misery and dejection, and the pulse, in- 
stead of being full and hard, is weak 



BRAIN AND NERVE DISEASES. 



43 



and intermitting ; in the former case, as 
soon as the patient has been placed in a 
sitting position, with the legs depend- 
ing, everything about his neck removed, 
and the air freely admitted, a vein 
should be opened in the neck, or arm, 
and the blood allowed to flow until the 
pulse is greatly reduced; a pallor in 
the face, and a generally relaxed state 
of the muscle, shows that fainting is 
about to ensue : In the latter case it is 
always necessary to relieve the neck 
from all pressure, to place the body 
upright and admit air — but beyond 
this the treatment must be different; 
coll water should be dashed in the 
face, strong spirits of Ammonia ap- 
plied to the nostrils, and the feet 
placed in a warm bath, Avith a little 
mustard, and every means taken to 
amuse the patient from his state of 
lethargy. As soon as this is so far ef- 
fected that he can swallow, give 2 dram 
of Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia in 1^ 
ounces of Camphor Mixture, as a stim- 
ulant draught ; but it is only when the 
pulse is feeble and fluttering that the 
stimulant may be administered; this 
is the exceptional case of Apoplexy. 
Most commonly the symptoms are 
those first described, and if relieved at 
all it must be by free bleeding, and 
other measures of depletion. Purga- 
tives must be got down soon as possible; 
10 grains of Calomel placed on the 
tongue, and washed down with a black 
draught, or 2 or 3 drops of Croton Oil 
may be rubbed on the back of the 
tongue, and a lavement composed of 2 
tablespoonfuls of common salt, with a 
little oil or butter, and a pint of warm 
water ; or a tablespoouful of soft soap 
mixed with the same quantity of warm 
water ; or an ounce of Spirits of Tur- 
pentine rubbed down with the yolk of 
an egg, and a pint of thin gruel ; one 
of these should be repeated every two 
hours until the same decided effect is 
pn^duced. Other means of relieving 
the system may be taken should these 
fail, such as blisters behind the ears to 
the nape of the neck, or calves of the 
legs : should the head be very hot, let 
it be shaved, and a cold lotion be ap- 



plied to it— Water and Vinegar, or Acid 
Water, will do best. Should the attack 
be soon after a full meal, administer 
an emetic, a scruple of Sulphate of 
Zinc, with a grain or two of Tartar 
Emetic ; something like this should 
always be given when Apoplexy 
arises from the effects of opium or 
spirits. Cupping on the temples, or 
opening the temporal artery, is some- 
times resorted to in obstinate cases, 
and in Pulmonary Apoplexy ; after the 
most violent symptoms are relieved 
by copious bleeding, nauseating doses 
of Tartar Emetic, frequently repeated, 
or Digitalis, to reduce the action of the 
heart, have been found useful. In all 
cases, after the crisis of the disease is 
over, and when the patient has become 
convalescent, it behooves him to Hd 
very careful, as a slight indiscretion 
may bring on a fresh attack. 

We have said that Apoplexy comes 
without warning, but this is not 
strictly true. However sudden the at- 
tack itself may be there are certain 
premonitory symptoms which no pru- 
dent man will disregard : among these 
may be named, a sense of fulness in 
the veins of the head, and a feeling of 
pressure in the head itself, with occa- 
sional darting pains, giddiness, ver- 
tigo, partial loss of memory, and the 
powers of vision and of speech ; numb- 
ness of the extremities, drowsiness, and 
a dread of falling down; irregularity 
in the action of the bowels, and invol- 
untary passage of urine. These all in- 
dicate that some internal mischief is 
going on, and if their warning is at- 
tended to the threatened attack may, 
perhaps, be avoided. Persons, whose 
full habits of body and modes of life 
predispose them to this disease, should, 
when such warnings reach them, live 
sparingly, avoid stimulants, especially 
fermented and spirituous liquors, take 
regular and moderate exercise, sleep 
on a firm pillow with the head ele- 
vated, and nothing round the neck to 
impede the act of breathing. Keep 
the bowels regulated by an occasional 
dose of Colocynth and Calomel Pills, 
and saline purgatives. Those of a 



44 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



spare habit should take light, al- 
though nourishing, diet, a little beer 
or wine, if they have been accustomed 
to it, and it does not affect the head ; 
spirituous liquors and hot spices 
should be avoided, and great bodily 
fatigue or nervous excitement of any 
kind. 

PARALYSIS— The total loss or 
diminutiof. cf motion, or sensation, or 
both, in any part; it is termed and 
often called Pahy. There are several 
kinds of palsy or paralysis, such as 
the Paralysis agitans ; the Shaking, or 
a« it is sometimes called, from the pe- 
culiarity of the patient's gait, the 
Dancing Palsy ; Hemiphlegia, when one 
side of the body only is smitten ; and 
Paraphlegia, when it is the lower half 
which is more or less deprived of its 
nervous power; but in all cases it is 
the brain which is the seat of dis- 
order ; and if this is confined to one 
of its hemispheres, the attack, if it 
does not include both sides, is most 
likely to fall on the opposite side of 
the body. The rupture of a vessel in 
the brain is one of the most common 
causes of Paralysis, and this may occur 
without there being any decided apo- 
plectic symptoms; a sKght transient 
faiatness and confusion of ideas may 
precede the attack, or it may come on 
during sleep, so that the patient may 
only be made aware that he is para- 
lyzed by his inability to speak plainly, 
or to move a limb or one side of his 
body. Sometimes the attack is grad- 
uid, and occupies a considerable time 
— days, weeks, and even months 
elapse before the loss of nervous en- 
erj^y becomes complete ; and this help- 
lessDess may be produced by a succes- 
sion of sligiit shocks, as it were, or by 
the gradual stealing on of an appa- 
rently torpid condition ; this latter is 
more commonly the case when the dis- 
ease arises from a decided state of gen- 
eral debility, which in time involves 
the brain, until the structure gives 
way, and softening is the consequence. 
Literary men, ana all who have much 
head work, are especially liable to 
that condition of the brain which 



causes Paralysis, and so are hard 
drinkers, and others whose live.i or 
habits necessitate a frequent state 
of cerebral excitement ; with such the 
progress of the disease is probably 
rapid ; if of full habit, they will, it is 
likely, die quickly of apoplexy ; if of 
spare, they will sink into a state of 
mental and bodily imbecility; in 
either case they may be subject to epi- 
leptic fits. 

It is all nonsense to talk of a cure 
of Paralysis. Palliatives may be tried, 
and, in some cases, with a certain 
measure of success. There may be a 
partial restoration of power to the 
helpless leg or arm ; the sjieech may 
become less thick, and the face less 
perceptibly drawn on one side; but 
we never yet saw a case of complete 
recovery, nor one in which there was 
not, sooner or later, a renewal of the 
attack. True, some paralyzed persons 
live to a good old age, and are enabled 
to enjoy themselves and perform the 
duties allotted to them ; but seldom, if 
ever, do they become like unto their 
former selves; there is a little drag- 
ging of the foot in walking, the hand 
cannot grasp so tightly, nor the arm 
be lifted so quickly and readily in obe- 
dience to the will as formerly; there 
will, also, probably be a little hesi- 
tancy or thickness of speech, and the 
two sides of the face will not quite 
correspond. 

In the above observations we have 
already hinted at some of the causes of 
this seizure, one of the chief being 
pressure upon or disease of the braiu 
or spinal cord. When confined to the 
lower part of the body, there may be 
reason to believe that the defect of 
power is in some cases but functional ; 
in this case the cause may be long ex- 
posure of the lower limbs to wet and 
cold, self abuse, excessive indulgence 
in venery, inflammation of the bowels 
or kidneys, effusion in the spinal cord 
from a blow or burn or other injury; 
disease of the womb or of the urethra 
may also give rise to it. Palsy of 
either of the limbs may be caused 
by pressure, and general Palsy by 



BRAIN AND NEEVE DISEASES. 



45 



the action of lead or mercury upon 
the system ; therefore those who work 
in these metals are peculiarly liable to 
be so aflFected, such as button-gilders, 
glass silverers, plumbers, etc. 

The most dangerous form of this 
kind is when it affects the muscles of 
respiration, in which case it rapidly 
proves fatal. Among the premonitory 
symptoms of Paralysis may be named 
headache, confusion of ideas, loss of 
memory, impaired vision, drowsiness 
and partial stupor, with, frequently, 
numbness and pricking or tingling 
sensation in the limb or part about to 
be attacked. With persons of a full 
habit, there will be heat and flushings 
in the face, and most of the signs of 
an approaching fit of apoplexy ; then 
follows indistinct articulation, loss of 
power, and the other marked and un- 
mistakable indications of an actual 
attack. 

The proper treatment, in the case of 
a patient of a full habit, will be bleed- 
ing and cupping in the neck and 
strong purgatives, about 5 grains of 
Calomel, followed by Senna Mixture, 
or Croton Oil Pills, every four hours, 
until they operate freely ; when there 
is faintness and confusion of intellect, 
give a teaspoonful of Sal Volatile in a 
glass of water, and repeat it in an hour 
if required ; no alcoholic stimulant 
must be administered ; put the feet 
and legs in a hot mustard bath, and 
place the patient in a warm bed, with 
the head and shoulders well raised. 
Follow up the cupping in the neck 
with a blister, and after that put in a 
seton if required; after they have once 
acted well, keep the bowels gently 
open with Rhubarb or Castor Oil ; let 
the diet be spare, and the quietude of 
the patient as perfect as possible. 
After the acute stage of the disease 
has passed, local stimulants should be 
used, and the affected parts well 
rubbed with the hand, or a flesh-brush. 
Electricity and Galvanism may also 
be employed, where there is no reason to 
suspect structural disorganization. In 
paraphlegia it is ofteu very difficult to 
get the bladder to act • and, when it 



does, the urine flows from it involun- 
tarily ; great attention should be paid 
to this, and stimulant diuretics given; 
the Tincture of Cantharides in J dram 
doses is, perhaps, the best that can be 
used. 

In some cases, much relief has been 
afforded by the use of Sulphur Baths 
and Chalybeate Waters. Mercury, 
which is strongly recommended by 
some, is but a doubtful remedy. 
Strychnia has proved serviceable, but 
should only be given under medi- 
cal superintendence. Repeated moxae 
along the course of the spine, and 
small blister on the insides of the 
legs and thighs are recommended by 
Dr. Graves. 

In Palsy of the face, if it is caused 
by a blow, a few leeches behind the 
ear, and at the angle of the jaw, may 
prove beneficial ; if cold is the cause, 
hot fomentations and stimulating lini- 
ments should be applied; as also in 
Palsy of the hands, fingers, or other 
extremities, with Electro-Magnetism, 
persevered in for a considerable time. 
In all cases of Chronic Paralysis, it 
should be borne in mind that the ner- 
vous system requires arousing and 
stimulating to a due performance of 
the functions necessary to life ; in 
nearly all there is a sluggish action of 
the bowels, which are often obsti- 
nately constipated, and require the 
strongest purgatives to keep them at 
all open ; it is sometimes better to em- 
ploy enemas, than continue giving 
drastic medicines. The paralytic pa- 
tient frequently enjoys pretty good 
general health, and eats largely, and 
this increases the above difficulty, es- 
pecially if it be a heavy person, with 
little power of self-movement. When 
confined entirely to bed, sores and 
sloughing ulcers are not uncommon — 
(an air or water bed greatly obviates 
the danger of them.) 

SUNSTROKE is an affection of the 
Brain, caused by the rays of the sun 
striking upon the head. It frequently 
begins with headache and dizziness, 
and the patient falls senseless. — Take 
the patient into the shade, apply cold 



46 



YOU ASK 



I'LL TELL! 



water to the head, and proceed as di- 
rected for Apoplexy. 

HYDROPHOBIA —This is the well 
known canine or dog madness, whose 
chief symptoms are spasmodic con- 
tractions of the larynx, preventing the 
patient, although thirsty, from swal- 
lowing any kind of liquid ; one of the 
most dreadful and fatal visitations 
that can affect humanity. It has been 
known to medical writers from the 
days of Hippocrates downwards, and 
described under a great variety of 
names, all having reference to the 
difficulty of swallowing, or to the 
horrible fear which possesses the pa- 
tient, as expressed in the old names 
aero-phobia and panto-phobia, dread of 
air, and dread of all things. It is 
generally distinguished as Rabiosa, 
with madness, and sine rabie, without 
madness. From Dr. Watson's " Lec- 
tures" we copy the following descrip- 
tion of this fearful malady, which in 
man is produced by inoculation with 
the saliva of an animal, generally a 
dog, infected with it. When a person 
has been bitten by a rabid animal, the 
wound, if treated in the ordinary 
manner, will generally heal readily 
enough; but "after an uncertain in- 
terval, which lies for the most part be- 
tween six weeks and eighteen months, 
the following symptoms begin to be 
noticeable. The patient experiences 
pain, or some uneasy or unnatural 
sensation in the situation of the bite. 
If it becomes healed up, the scar tin- 
gles or aches, or feels cold or stiff, or 
numb; sometimes it becomes visibly 
red, swollen, or livid. The pain or 
uneasiness extends from the sore or 
scars toward the central parts of the 
body. Very soon after this renewal 
of local irritation, — within a few 
hours, perhaps, but certainly within 
a very few days, during which the 
patient feels ill and uncomfortable, — 
th'. specific constitutional symptoms 
bcjiin ; he is hurried and irritable ; 
speaks of pain and stiffness, perhaps 
about his neck and throat ; unexpect- 
edly he finds himself unable to swal- 
low fluid.^, and every attempt to do so 



brings oii a paroxysm of choking and 
sobbing, of a very distressful kind to 
behold ; and this continues for two or 
three days, till the patient dies ex- 
hausted." 

Does it follow, then, that all persons 
bitten by a rabid dog or other animal, 
must die ? is there no hope for thesn ? 
assuredly we would not promulgate 
such a doctrine as this. In the first 
place, a very small proportion of those 
who are so bitten have the disease at 
all ; and this partial immunity has 
sufficed to establish a false reputation 
for many of the nostrums vaunted as 
infallible remedies. If the bitten per- 
son becomes not mad, the nostrum has 
saved him ; if he dies raving, it has 
not been rightly administered, and so 
the faith of believers remains un- 
shaken, and quackery is triumphant. 
It has been calculated that the pro- 
portion of persons bitten who suffer 
from the disease is about one in twen- 
ty-five. 

Treatment. — As no positive cure has 
been discovered for this terrible dis- 
ease, all efforts must be merely pre- 
ventive; directly the bite has taken 
place, a free excision of the wound 
should be made, taking care that every 
particle of flesh that the saliva has 
touched be removed ; then thoroughly 
wash the wound with tepid water, keep- 
ing up this application for a consider- 
able time : some recommend stimu- 
lating dressings to the part, but the 
advisability of tliis is very question- 
able; better to let the wound heal 
than to keep the system in a state of 
irritation. If there is any doubt about 
the poison being all removed, a strong 
solution of Lunar Caustic should be ap- 
plied, or the Caustic itself; this is aa 
likely to be as effective as the actual 
cautery, which some recommend. Mr. 
Youatt says he never saw the Lunar 
Caustic fail, and it may be used at 
any time before the disease manifests 
itself, although the longer it is delay- 
ed the less chance there is of success. 

St. Vitus's Dance. — This distres- 
sing malady is characterized by gro- 
tesque jerks of the body, etc., result- 



BRAIN AND NEBVE DISEASES. 



47 



ing from the futile efforts of the will 
to restrain the involuntary muscles ; 
in the convulsions the flexor and ex- 
tensor muscles internally are alter- 
nately in strong action. 

Treatment. — Eemove all causes of 
excitement, anger, or fear. Let books 
and study be forbidden, and require 
some sort of cheerful outdoor exercise 
daily. Eegulate the diet; let it be 
plain and nutritious, but not stimu- 
lating ; let the bowels be kept in order 
by some gentle physic. The shower- 
or sponge-bath should be used daily, 
and for the nervous system, 24 grains 
of Iron by Hydrogen, 1 grain of Sul- 

Shate of Morphia, 5 grains Extract of 
Tux Vomica ; mix and make 30 pills, 
and take 1 pill twice a day. 

NEURALGIA. — A painful affec- 
tion of the nerves : when it occurs in 
those of the face it is termed /ace-a«7Me 
or tic-doloreux ; when it affects the 
great nerve of the leg, it is called 
sciatica : other parts, such as the 
fingers, the chest, the abdomen, etc., 
are also liable to this agonizing pain, 
occ of the most severe and wearing to 
which the human frame is liable ; the 
exact nature of it is not very clear; 
that is to say, the origin of the disease, 
for although its immediate seat is a 
nerve, or set of nerves, yet there must 
be some originating cause. It can fre- 
quently be traced to some decay, or 
diseased growth of the bone about 
those parts through which the nerves 
pass ; and in some severe cases it has 
been found to depend upon the irrita- 
tion caused by foreign bodies acting 
upon those highly sensitive organs. 
The only symptom of Neuralgia, gener- 
ally, is a violent darting and plunging 
pain, which comes on in paroxysms ; 
except in very severe and protracted 
cases, there is no outward redness nor 
swelling to mark the seat of the pain, 
neither is there usually constitutional 
derangement, other than that which 
may be caused by want of rest, and the 
extreme agony of the suffering while it 
lasts, which may be from one to two 
or three hours, or even more, but it is 
not commonly so long. Tenderness and 



swelling of the part sometimes occurs, 
where there has been a frequent recur- 
rence and long continuance of the pain, 
which leaves the patient, in most cases, 
as suddenly as it comes on ; its periodic 
returns and remissions, and absence of 
inflammatory symptoms, are distinc- 
tive marks of the disease. Among its 
exciting causes, we may .xention ex- 
posure to damp aud cold, especially if 
combined with malaria; and to these 
influences a person with a debilitated 
constitution will be more subject than 
another. Anxiety of mind will some- 
times bring it on, and so will a disor- 
dered state of the stomach, more par- 
ticularly a state in which there is too 
much acid. 

As for treatment, that of course must 
depend upon the cause ; if it is a de- 
cayed tooth, which, by its exposure of 
the nerve to the action of the atmos- 
phere, sets up this pain, it should be at 
once removed, as there will be little 
peace for the patient until it is : if co- 
existent with Neuralgia there is a dis- 
ordered stomach, suspicion should at 
once point thereto, and efforts should 
be made to correct the disorder there. 
If the patient is living in a moist, low 
situation, he should at once be removed 
to a higher level, and a dry gravelly 
soil. Tonics, such as Quinine, and 
Iron, should be given, and a tolerably 
generous diet, but without excess of 
any kind. In facial Neuralgia, blisters 
behind the ears, or at the back of the 
neck, have been found serviceable ; 
and, if the course of the nerve which 
appears to be the seat of mischief can 
be traced, a Belladonna plaster, or a 
piece of rag soaked in Laudanum and 
laid along it, will sometimes give relirf; 
80 will hot fomentations of Poppies 
and Camomiles, or Bran Poultices 
sprinkled with Turpentine. In very 
severe cases i of a grain of Morphine 
may be given to deaden the nervous 
sensibility, and induce sleep, which 
the patient is often deprived of at night, 
the pain coming on as soon as he gets 
warm in bed. Sir Charles Bell's remedy 
for obstinate cases of Neuralgia, was 
1 or 2 drops of Croton Oil, mixed with 



48 



YOU ask! — i'll tell! 



1 dram of Compound Colocynth Pill, 
divide into 12. Weakly persons, how- 
ever, must not venture upon taking 
this powerful remedy. 

An application of Chloroform on 
lint has sometimes proved very ef- 
fectual in relieving severe Neuralgic 
pains, and so has an ointment com- 
posed of Lard and Veratrine, in the 
proportion of 6 grains to the ounce. 

A mixture of Chloroform and 
Aconite has been recommended for 
facial Neuralgia, the form of prepara- 
tion being 2 parts of Spirits of Wine, 
or Eau de Cologne, 1 of Chloroform, 
and 1 of Tincture of Aconite, to be 
applied to the gums of the side affect- 
ed, by means of a finger covered with 
a piece of lint, or soft linen, and 
rubbed along them; the danger of drop- 
ping any into the mouth being thus 
avoided. When the pain is connected 
with some organic disease, as a de- 
cayed tooth, or chronic inflammation 
of the gums, or of the sockets, or 
superficial necrosis (,f the bone, sub- 
stitute Tincture of Iodine for the 
spirit in the above formula. We 
would caution our readers strongly 
against the careless inhalation of Chlo- 
roform as a remedy for Neuralgia, 
which appears to be growing into 
practice ; several deaths have resulted 
from it, the method being to pour :» 
little on a pocket-handkerchief, with- 
out much regard to quantity, and hold 
it to the mouth until the required in- 
sensibility is produced. This remedy 
should never be administered except 
under the supervision of the medical 
adviser. 

Persons at all liable to this painful 
affection, should be extremely careful 
not to expose themselves to wet or 
cold ; above all, not to sit in draughts, 
a very slight cause will often bring it 
on when there is the least tendency 
to it. 

Hiccough or Hiccup. Of this com- 
pound word it has been suggested that 
the first syllable, hie, may have refer- 
ence to hitch or catch; hiccup is the gen- 
eral pronunciation. This is a convulsive 
catcu of the respiratory muscles, caus- 



ing spasmodic contraction of the dia- 
phragm, with a partial closure of the 
larynx ; generally, it is but trivial and 
transient, causing no permanent in- 
convenience ; but, sometimes, when it 
occurs in the latter stages of acute dis- 
ease, it is very alarming, indicating a 
giving way of the nervous system. 

Young females of an hysterical ten- 
dency sometimes suffer from obstinate 
Hiccough. We have known it to con- 
tinue for weeks with butlittle cessation, 
except during the hours of sleep, and, 
occasionally, breaking in upon them. 
Long fasting, or the sudden introduc- 
tion of some strong stimulant into the 
stomach, will often cause a common 
Hiccough, for which cold wiiter, contin- 
ually sipped and swallowed, will often 
prove a remedy, but nothing is so 
likely to remove it as strong excite- 
ment of the mind. Acupunctuation has 
been recommended as a remedy, but 
we have never seen it tried, and much 
question the desirability of its appli- 
cation. Most antispasmodic medicines 
are likely to be of service, and we have 
seen the following given with good ef- 
fect : — Carbonate of Soda, 1 dram ; 
Sulphuric Ether, 3 drams ; Tincture of 
Ginger, 2 drams ; Tincture of Gentian, 
4 drams ; Camphor Mixture, sufficient 
to make 8 ounces. Take two table- 
spoonfuls every two or three hours. 
Sometimes hot applications to the up- 
per part of the chest and the throat 
will relieve the symptoms ; but, if all 
these should fail, a surgeon had better 
be consulted, especially if ihe patient 
is in a weak state. 

The simple form of Hiccough is 
readily cured by taking a teaspoonful 
of Carbonate of Soda in a little cold 
water. 

FAINTING. — This is a state of 
total or partial unconsciousness, oc- 
casioned by diminished action of the 
heart, causing a less rapid circulation 
of blood through the brain. The 
causes of it are various, and some- 
times very peculiar, such as a particu- 
lar smell ; that of a rose, for instance, 
haj been known to occasion it ; certain 
objects presented to the sight; sur- 



BRAIN AND NERVE DISEASES. 



40 



prise, joy, fear, or any sudden emo- 
tions ; loss of blood, or anything which 
tends to debilitate the system by di- 
minishing the vital energy. 

The first sensation of fainting to the 
patient himself is generally a singing 
in the ears, then the sight becomes 
confused, and all the senses deadened ; 
a clammy sweat breaks out over the 
person, the countenance becomes dead- 
ly pale, and the limbs refuse to sup- 
port the weight of the body, which 
sinks to the earth as helpless and 
motionless as a corpse; indeed, the 
condition so closely resembles that of 
death, that it is diflBcult to distinguish 
it therefrom. This is a complete faint ; 
frequently the fits are only partial and 
very limited in duration ; but whether 
so or not, the best treatment is to place 
the patient in an horizontal position ; 
free the face, neck, and upper part of 
the chest from all incumbrances ; let 
the fresh air play freely upon them, 
and sprinkle the former with cold' 
water ; holding to the nostrils from 
time to time some volatile stimulant, 
such as Hartshorn or Ammonia; as 
soon as swallowing can be accomplish- 
ed, administer about 30 drops of 
Spirits of Wine,or Sal Volatile,in water. 
Persons subject to fainting should 
not go into crowded rooms where the 
air is bad, should not become excited, 
or wear light clothing. Cold bathing, 
a nutritious but not a stimulating diet, 
and vegetable tonics, will help to cure 
the tendency. 

NIGHTMARE.— A sense of weight 
and oppression at the chest, felt at 
night, and generally preceded by a 
frightful dream, in which the sleeper 
fancies himself on the edge of a preci- 
pice, or struggling for his life with 
some enemy in the form of a fiend or 
dreadful beast, from which he makes 
desperate but fruitless efibrts to escape. 
The cause is, generally, indigestion; 
it may be owing to distension of the 
stomach by flatulency, or lying in a 
cramped and uneasy position ; some- 
times it is occasioned by great mental 
disquietude or irritation, or over fa- 
tigue. The best remedies are plenty 



of outdoor exercise, a well regulated 
diet, light suppers, taken early in the 
evening, and no studying for an hour 
or two before retiring. Avoid costive- 
ness, lie on your side, and do not raise 
the hands above the head. Shaking a 
person while suffering from Nightmare- 
will waken them out of it. 

Somnambulism, or Sleep-walking'. 
— It is not very uncommon for persons' 
to fall into this curious state, whichi 
appears to be one between waking ancJ 
sleeping. It is one of those psycholo- 
gical phenomena which, like mesmer- 
ism, is as yet very imperfectly under- 
stood. Somnambulists are thought by 
some to be endued with a kind of 
clairvoyance, or inner sight, which is 
diffused over the whole body, but is 
especially seated at the epigastrium 
and the finger-ends. Notwithstanding 
which, however, the sleep-walker is 
liable to dangerous falls, and other ac- 
cidents ; it is, therefore, necessary that 
he should be carefully watched and 
guarded ; above all, he should be never 
rudely nor suddenly disturbed when 
in this state, as a fright or shock of 
any kind may be attended with very 
serious results. 

As a preventive, wind once or twice 
around the patient's leg, on retiring, a 
thin, flexible copper wire, long enough 
to reach the floor ; or, a copper chain 
of No. 8 wire, three or four feet long, 
with one end of it held in the hand 
and the other end passed to the floor, 
is a more convenient application, and 
quite as effectual. It will also some- 
times prove valuable in inducing sleep 
to those who are nervous and wakeful. 
The chain should be removed after 
the patient is asleep, as too long a 
continuance is injurious. 

COLDS can scarceljr be spoken of 
as a disease, although it is the prolific 
source of many diseases, and a large 
proportion of the cases which the 
family doctor is called in to treat are 
termed colds, under which generic 
term, if we may so speak, are included 
Catarrh, Influenza, bronchial affections, 
and the incipient stages of Bronchitis. 
As to the results of a cold, were we te 



60 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



particularize these, we might include 
fevers, rheumatic atfections, and half 
the diseases to which the flesh is heir. 
In this climate, more especially, with 
its sudden changes of temperature, 
and variations in the condition of the 
atmosphere, persons are very liable to 
"catch cold," as it is called, and, gen- 
erally speaking, far too little care is 
taken to guard against this liability, 
and the effects of a " slight cold" when 
it is contracted. 

The symptoms of a cold are familiar 
to most j)ersons, for there are few who 
have not experienced them ; as a gen- 
eral rule the treatment should be 
avoidance of exposure to out-of-door 
atmospheric influences, unless the 
weather be very flne and mild ; warm 
diluent drinks and diaphoretics at night 
to promote perspiration, with the use 
of the foot-bath. The saying runs, 
" feed a cold and starve a fever," but 
this is not always the safe course ; if 
there is an absence of febrile symp- 
toms, which is rarely the case, a warm 
nourishing diet may be the rule, and 
medicines may be pretty nearly dis- 
pensed with, but if these symptoms 
are present the system must be re- 
duced by low diet and aperient medi- 
cines. A high medical authority has 
recently recommended a total abstinence 
from liquids; he says : — " To those who 
have the resolution to bear the feel- 
ings of thirst /or thirty-six or forty- 
eight hours, we can promise a pretty 
certain and complete riddance of their 
colds ; and, what is perhaps more im- 
portant, a prevention of those coughs 
which commonly succeed them." 

If a cold settles on the outer covering 
of the lungs, it becomes pneumonia, 
inflammation of the lungs, or lung 
fever, and in many cases carries off' the 
strongest man to the grave within a 
week. If cold falls upon the inner 
covering of the lungs, it is pleurisy, 
with its knife-like pains and its slow, 
very slow recoveries. If a cold settles 
in the joints, there is rheumatism with 
its agonies of pain, and rheumatism of 
the heart, which in an instant some- 
times snaps asunder the cords of life 



with no friendly warning. It is of the ut- 
most i)ractical importance, then, in the 
wintry weather, to know not so much 
how to cure a cold as how to avoid it. 

Colds always come from one cause, 
some part of the body being colder than 
natural for a time. If a person will keep 
his or her feet warm always, and never 
allow himself or herself to be chilled, 
he or she will never take cold in a life- 
time ; and this can only be accom- 
plished by due care in warm clothing 
and avoidance of drafts and exposure. 
While multitudes of colds come from 
cold feet, perhaps, the majority arise 
from cooling off" too quickly after be- 
coming a little warmer than is natural 
from exercise or work, or from con- 
finement to a warm apartment. 

COUGH.— A convulsive effort of the 
lungs to get relief of phlegm or other 
matter ; it may be a symptom of Bron- 
chitis^ or Catarrh, or Croiip, or Influ- 
enza, or Laryngitis, or Phthisis, or 
Pleurisy, or Pneumonia, or Relaxed 
Uvula, also Whooping- Cough. 

We can here lay down but a few 
general principles with regard to the 
treatment of simple cough without ref- 
erence to the peculiar disease of which 
it may be symptomatic ; and first let 
us observe that it may be either what is 
properly, as well as medically, termed 
dry or moist. In the former case. Opi- 
um and its preparations are advisable ; 
in the latter they should not be used ; 
the irritation will be best allayed by 
Henbane or Hemlock, either the Tinc- 
ture or Extract, with demulcents, as 
Barley-water, Linseed-tea, etc., and 
Liquorice, either the Root boiled, or 
Extract ; it is well also to add i'rom 
5 to 10 drops of Ipecacuanha Wine to 
each dose ; inhalation also of the steam 
from boiling water will generally be 
found beneficial — and especially if 
some medicinal herb, such as Hore- 
houndor Coltsfoot, be infused in it. In 
moist coughs, there should not be so 
much fluid taken, and the use of de- 
mulcents must be somewhat restricted. 
Opiates may be administered, but not 
too freely, either separately or in 
cough mixtures; Paregoric Elixir, in 



CATARRH. 



51 



which the Opium is combined with 
Benzoic Acid and Oil of Aniseed (ex- 
pectorants), and Camphor (antispas- 
modic), is perhaps the best form of ad- 
ministration ; a teaspoonful in a glass 
of water generally allays the irrita- 
tion and frequent desire to cough 
which arises from it. In cases where 
there is difficulty of expectoration, 
some such mixture as this should be 
taken : — Compound Tincture of Cam- 
phor, 4 drams ; Ipecacuanha Wine, and 
Oxymel of Squills, of each 2 drams ; 
Mucilage of Acacia, 1 ounce ; Water, 
4 ounces : mix and take a tablespoonful 
when the cough is troublesome ; for 
old people 2 drams of Tincture of 
Benzoin, commonly called Friar's Bal- 
sam, may be added to the above ; and 
if there should be much fever, 2 drams 
of Sweet Spirits of Nitre. For all 
kinds of cough, counter-irritants should 
be applied, such as blisters and warm 
plasters, rubbing in of stimulant oint- 
ments, on the chest and between the 
shoulders ; those parts also should be 
well protected by flannels next the 
skin, dressed hair-skin, and other con- 
trivances of the kind. For coughs 
which are more particularly trouble- 
some by night, it is best to give the 
Opium, Henbane, or Hemlock, as the 
case may be, at bedtime, in the shape 
of a pill ; of the extracts of either of 
the latter, 5 grains may be given ; of 
the first, 1 or 2 grains of the Gum, or 
} of a grain of Morphine. A long ex- 
perience of their efficacy among a kirge 
number of dispensary patients enables 
the writer to recommend, with confi- 
dence, the following pills : — Take of 
Compound Squill Pill, 1 dram; Ipe- 
cacuanha Powder, and Extract of Hy- 
oscyamus, of each ^ dram, mix and 
make into 24 pills; take one or two 
on going to rest. Great relief is 
afforded by the use of a warm foot-bath 
and warm gruel, with a 10-grain Dover's 
Powder after the patient is in bed, then 
plenty of covering to encourage perspi- 
ration. Coughs should never be neg- 
lected, they are so frequently symp- 
tomatic of organic disease; if they do 
not yield to simple remedies, let medi- 



cal advice be sought, whether the 
patient be old or young. 

CATARRH.— An inflammation of 
the mucous membrane of the nostrils, 
or bronchial passages, causing an in- 
creased afflux of the matter secreted 
therein. There are two distinct kinds 
of this disease, viz., cold in the head ; 
and epidemic catarrh, commonly called 
Influenza. 

The causes are exposure to cold or 
wet, epidemic poison, which, as the 
result of over stimulus to the nerves, 
produces congestion of some portion of 
the mucous membrane, and generally, 
more or less, of inflammatory fever in 
the whole system. 

The symptoms are a dull, heavy pain 
in the forehead, redness of the eyes, 
fulness and heat of the nostrils, fol- 
lowed by the distillation of a thin 
acrid fluid from those parts; hoarse- 
ness, frequent sneezing, and soreness 
of the trachea; difficulty of breathing, 
cough, and loss of appetite, with a 
sense of chilliness, and a general feel- 
ing of lassitude : the pulse, towards 
evening, becomes considerably acceler- 
ated, and more or less of fever ensues 
as the disease proceeds; the mucus, at 
first, thin, colorless, and expectorated 
with difficulty, gradually becomes 
thicker, of a yellow color, and more 
easily brought up ; after a few days 
it diminishes in quantity, and soon 
ceases altogether, if proper care be 
taken, and the right remedies used; 
and this brings us to the 

Treatment — Which will be low diet, 
plenty of diluents, such as Barley- 
water or thin Gruel, acidulated with 
a little Lemon Juice, or Cream of Tar- 
tar; if there is much difficulty of 
breathing, and much inflammation, 
bleeding, general or topical, must be 
resorted to, with diaphoretic and 
aperient medicines, and Calomel in 3 
grain doses ; a blister to the chest if 
the desired relief is not afforded by 
these means, and the promotion of 
perspiration by Dover's Powder, 10 
grains, at bedtime ; the use of the 
foot-bath, warm drinks, and plenty of 
clothes on the bed; an infusion of 



52 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Linseed and Liquorice Root may be 
given where the cough is very trouble- 
some, and the chest sore ; and if the 
rest is much disturbed, a draught con- 
taining Jth of a grain of Morpliine, 2 
drams of Liquor of Acetate of Am- 
monia, and J a dram of Ipecacuanha 
Wine, with an ounce of Camphor Mix- 
ture, should be administered at bed- 
time instead of the Dover's Powder. 
Catarrh in children may be distin- 
guished from measles by the mildness 
of the febrile symptoms in the former, 
and the absence of many characteristic 
marks of the latter. The disease is 
seldom attended with fatal conse- 
quences, except in elderly persons, or 
those far advanced in pulmonary com- 
plaints and greatly debilitated consti- 
tutions ; it often proves the first stage 
of bronchitis, and commonly causes 
great constitutional derangement, and 
renders the system liable to the attacks 
of other diseases. Sometimes, after it 
has continued on a person for a longer 
period than usual, the inflammation of 
the mucous membrane affects that of 
the bladder. A snuff made as follows is 
very effectual for catarrh in the head : 
1 dram of Crystals of Nitrate of Silver 
dissolved in a teaspoonful of warm 
water, and mixed with 3 drams of Ly- 
copedium ; put in a dark place, and 
let it dry, then rub it into a powder 
with the finger : take a pinch of this 
once a day, drawing it up the nostrils 
well into the head. 

TEETH.— True, bony teeth are found 
only in the higher or vertebrated ani- 
mals : there are three kinds. Molars, 
Bicuspids, and Cuspids. The follow- 
ing cut exhibits more clearly. 




These three sorts of Teeth, which 
we may call grinders, tearers, and cut- 
ters, represent three classes of Teeth 



among the lower animals ; that man 
has them all we may take as an evi- 
dence that he is intended to be an om- 
nivorous feeder. 

Although the Teeth form so promi- 
nent and distinguishing a feature of all 
the full-grown individuals of the 
higher forms of animals, yet most of 
these animals, including man, are born 
without any Teeth at all. When the 
child is born, the jaw is covered with 
gums, but underneath the gums are 
little cavities in which the Teeth are 
formed; and as they go on growing, 
they at last press upon the gum, and 
causing it to absorb, finally break 
through it. This process is called den- 
tition. It is frequently a source of dis- 
ordered health to children, especially 
if anything occurs to prevent the ab- 
sorption and ready yielding of the gum 
to the pressure of the tooth below. 
The absence of Teeth during the pe- 
riod of human infancy evidently indi- 
cates that the food required at that 
period does not need their employ- 
ment. It is a well-known fact, that 
the food of the infant is its mother's 
milk ; but it is too often forgotten that, 
till Teeth are developed. Nature does 
not intend the child to take food that 
requires preparation by Teeth in order 
to its digestion. The practice of feed- 
ing young children Avith solid food, is 
the cause of great destruction of life; 
and even sops should only be spar- 
ingly administered, in cases of neces- 
sity, till the first Teeth have ap- 
peared. 

From what we have before said, it 
will be seen that in the adult man 
there are thirty-two Teeth, but if we 
examine the jaw of a child after it has 
"cut" all its Teeth, and before it is 
six years old, we shall find that it has 
but twenty. Nor are these teeth in- 
creased in number by the addition of 
others ; but whilst this first set of 
Teeth are performing their duties, an 
entirely new set is growing under- 
neath them, in precisely the same way 
as they did at first. Gradually the 
fangs of the first set of teeth are ab- 
sorbed, in consequence of the pressure 



TEETH. 



53 



of those beneath, and they fall out, or 
are easily removed, and make way for 
the others. The order in which the 
Teeth appear — as well as the time — 
is subject to considerable deviations, 
but the following periods will be found 
to be about the time. 

First, or Milk Teeth. 

2 lower middle incisors, 4th to 8th month. 

2 upper " 4th to 8th 

4 lateral incisors, Vth to 11th 

4 anterior, or 1st molars, 12th to 18th 

4 eye, or canine teeth, 16th to 22d 

4 back molars, 19th to 38th 

ao 

In some children, the whole of the 
Teeth may be cut by the end of the 
third year, whilst, in others, the pro- 
cess of dentition may be prolonged to 
the fifth year. 

Order of Appearance of the permanent 

Teeth. 

4 first molars, one on each of 

the two sides of the two 

jaws, 6th to 7th year. 

4 middle incisors, two in each 

jaw, 7th to 8th year. 

4 lateral incisors, a little later 

than the last, 7th to 8th year. 

4 first bicuspids, 8th to 9th 

4 last bicuspids, 10th to 12th 

4 eye, or canine Teeth, 11th to 13th 

4 second molars, r2th to 14th 

4 back molars, or wisdom Teeth, 18th to 30th 

32 

The irregularity of Teeth produces 
an accumulation of tartar at their base, 
which causes an absorption of the gum, 
and eventually the Tooth drops out 
without decay. These irregularities 
arise from inattention to the Teeth, 
during second dentition ; but if proper 
care is taken at that period, all undue 
growth may be guarded against. 

The Teeth should be kept clean. 
There are two sources of impurity to 
the Teeth. The first is from a deposit 
of tartar upon them near the gum ; 
and the second is from portions of food 
adhering to them after meals. The 
accumulation of tartar is a frequent 
source of disease in the Teeth and 
gums, and precautions should be taken 
to prevent its adherence to them. The 



best plan is that of cleaning them with 
the brush night and morning. Denti- 
frices are frequently employed, and, 
perhaps, when simple, they are of ser- 
vice. All chemical products, how- 
ever, should be avoided. Anything 
which acts chemically upon the Tooth 
will open the way to speedy decay. 
The simplest dentifrice, and one of the 
best, is a mixture of prepared Chalk 
and well powdered Camphor. The 
Chalk acts as a scouring material, 
whilst the Camphor stimulates the 
gums, and counteracts the decomposi- 
tion of any small particles of food 
that may lurk among the Teeth. 
The purer the water that is employed 
for washing the Teeth the better. 

To cleanse away portions of food 
adhering to the Teeth, the toothpick 
should be used. Metallic toothpicks 
are objectionable ; those made of bone 
or quills are to be preferred. 

When Teeth are found to be decayed, 
immediate attention should be paid to 
them. They more frequently indicate 
serious derangement of the health than 
is imagined. Where Teeth are already 
decayed, they cannot be restored to 
their pristine integrity, but the de- 
cayed part may be removed, or the 
whole Tooth may be extracted. The 
sooner this is done the better ; for de- 
cay has an undoubted tendency to 
spread, and nothing is so disagreeable 
to other people as the breath of a per- 
son tainted with the faint odor of de- 
composing Teeth. 

Decay of the Teeth frequently cornea 
on from long-continued indigestion, 
from exposure to cold, from a scrofu- 
lous habit of body, from eating and 
drinking very hot or very cold articles 
of diet. Now, in all diseases, preven- 
tion is better than cure. 

Persons should take care to avoid 
those states of the system, and those 
causes which are known to be favor- 
able to the production of decayed 
Teeth. 

TOOTHACHE. —For this distress- 
ing and very common malady almost 
every one has a " sure cure," the 
peculiarity of which is, that it does 



54 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



little or nothing to mitigate the an- 
guish of the sufteier to whona it is 
recommended, which anguish is com- 
monly caused hy the exposure of the 
interior pulp, containing the nerve 
and blood -vessels, to external influ- 
ence, by decay of the outer portion of 
the Tooth. Among the remedies which 
we have to suggest, as having found 
them pretty generally successful, are 
Creosote, Chloroform, and Laudanum ; 
separately or in combination, they 
may be tried all ways ; the mode of 
application is to saturate a small piece 
of lint or wadding, and introduce it 
into the hollow of the Tooth, keep- 
ing it there as long as it may be ne- 
cessary ; should there be no available 
hollow, put it as close as possible to the 
seat of pain. Many of the other reme- 
dies recommended we have known to 
afford relief occasionally ; such as in- 
haling the vapor from Henbane Seeds 
put on a hot piece of metal ; chewing 
a piece of Pellitory Koot, or using 
the Tincture ; putting a piece of Sal 
Prunella in the mouth and allowing 
it to dissolve ; applying a drop or two 
of the Oil of Cloves, or Cinnamon, 
on lint ; or thrusting into the hollow 
Tooth a piece of ware previously 
dipped in strong Nitric Acid ; this 
application, if properly made, destroys 
the nerve, but it must be very care- 
fully done, so that the Acid does not 
touch the other teeth or the mouth. 
An aching Tooth may oftentime be 
stopped, and remain serviceable for 
years ; but this must not be done while 
the nerve is in an inflamed state, as in 
this case the pressure will but increase 
the anguish. Where a Tooth is so far 
gone as to be very troublesome, it is 
best to have it out ; the pain of the 
operation is sharp, but short, while 
the constant ache, ache, destroys alike 
health and spirits, and unfits one for 
all the active duties of life. 

HEARING.— This word signifies 
the faculty or sense by which sound 
is j)erccived ; it is reckoned among our 
external senses, its particular organ 
being the Ear; in our article on which 
■we have explained how certain mo- 



tions or vibrations of the air, striking 
upon the tympanum, or drum, sa 
excite the auditory nerve, whose fine 
reticulations or febrillae are spread over 
the interior of the organs, as to cause 
them to communicate to the brain, a 
sensation by which the mind obtains 
the ideas awakened by the sounds. 
All this is very wonderful, and past 
human comprehension ; we know that 
it is so, but we cannot tell how this 
communication between mind and 
matter can take place ; we see the 
machinery of the organs, and we are 
cognizant by certain results of ita 
being put into operation. We know 
that if we utter certain words in the ear 
of a friend or foe, the thoughts or ideas 
which we intended those words should 
convey, are conveyed to his mind, and 
he speaks and acts accordingly ; but 
our chain of reasoning upon cause 
and effect wants some links to make 
it complete. We are sure that we do 
hear and are heard, but we cannot tell 
how this hearing is effected. It is one' 
of the mysteries of our being, and 
there are many such to teach u* 
humility and our dependence upoa 
God. See remarks on the causes of 
the deprivation of Hearing and the- 
means of its recovery. 

DEAFNESS may proceed from any 
injury inflicted on the delicate organs 
of the ear by loud noises, violent 
colds, inflammation or ulceration of 
the membrane of the auditory pas- 
sages ; hard wax or other substances in- 
terrupting the transmission of sounds ;^ 
either over dryness or excessive mois- 
ture in the parts ; want of tone in 
the general system from debility ; 
among one of its frequent causes, is 
some defect in the structure of the 
organ itself, which no medical treat- 
ment can obviate ; in this case there 
is generally dumbness as well. 

The treatment will depend to a con- 
siderable extent on the cause; if there- 
is an accumulation of hardened wax,, 
or any defective or diseased action in 
the secreting glands of that substance, 
a few drops of a saturated solution of 
Common Salt, or of Ox Gall and' 



EAR DISEASES. 



56 



Balsam of Tolu, one part of the 
former to three of the latter, may be 
dropped into the ear, while the head 
is held on one side, night and morn- 
ing ; or applied on a piece of wadding 
inserted by means of a probe ; before 
each application, the ear should be 
syringed out with warm milk and 
water, or soap and water. If there is 
a thin acrid discharge accompanying 
the deafness, apply a blister behind 
the ear and keep it open for some time 
with Savine Ointment. When deaf- 
ness proceeds from cold in the head, 
diaphoretics, the warm foot-bath, and 
flannel wrappers, must be the reme- 
dies; if from debility and consequent 
loss of tone, drop stimulants into the 
ear, electrify or galvanize, and give 
tonics ; this will be the treatment also 
if it proceeds from defective energy of 
the optic nerve. 

EARACHE may proceed from ab- 
scess in one or more of the passages, 
or it may be altogether neuralgic. 
In children it is not uncommon during 
the period of dentition, and is_ espe- 
cially severe in cutting the permanent 
teeth ; grown persons sometimes suffer 
from it when producing their wisdom 
teeth ; it is often brought on by 
exposure to cold or draughts ; there 
is not often much constitutional de- 
rangement, although the pain is some- 
times excruciating, unless it is long 
continued. 

Treatment. — In children, during 
dentition, lancing the swollen gums 
will often afford relief, especially if 
an aperient be given, such as Rhubarb 
and Magnesia combined with a little 
Ginger, as in the Gregory's Powder ; 
elder children may have a little 
Laudanum dropped into the ear, and 
take Compound Senna Mixture, re- 
peated until the bowels are freely 
opened ; should these remedies not 
prove effectual, a fomentation of Camo- 
miles and Poppies should be applied, 
and a warm poultice afterwards ; the 
heart of a roasted onion applied warm 
to the external orifice will sometimes 
afford relief. If the case is very obsti- 
nate, two or three leeches behind the 



ear, followed by a blister, may be 
tried, with an Anodyne Saline Aperi- 
ent something like this : — Acetate 
of Morphine J a grain. Solution of 
Acetate of Ammonia 3 ounces, Sul- 
phate of Magnesia 1 ounce, Water or 
Camphor Mixture 5 ounces ; mix and 
take two tablespoonfuls every four 
hours. When Earache is caused by 
an abscess, and is attended with much 
swelling and severe pain, hot fomen- 
tations and poultices will be the treat- 
ment, syringing the external pas- 
sages with warm water, and, after the 
abscess has discharged, with a Solution 
of Sulphate of Zinc, in the proportion 
of 8 grains to the ounce of plain, or 
Rose Water, attention being paid to 
the bowels. With some persons any 
derangement of the general health 
will cause the formation of these ab- 
scesses, and in such cases the treat- 
ment must be rather general than 
local. Earache, no doubt, often pro- 
ceeds from derangement of the diges- 
tive organs, and may be relieved by 
active purgatives and emetics. When 
it is strictly neuralgic, Quinine, or 
some preparation of Iron, will be the 
most approj^riate remedy, with stimu- 
lating liniments rubbed in behind and 
about the ear. 

Noises in the Ear, like the dis- 
tant sound of bells, roaring of the sea, 
hissing and singing, etc., are often in- 
dicative of a determination of blood 
to the head ; with some, mere derange- 
ment of the digestive organs will cause 
these noises ; when accompanied by a 
certain degree of deafness, they are 
generally occasioned by an accumula- 
tion of wax in the external passage, 
or a partial stoppage of the Eustachian 
tube by cold. When the noises be- 
come chronic, or long continued, bath- 
ing the head regularly every morning 
with cold water will sometimes re- 
move them ; if cold be the cause, or 
disordered stomach, they will pass 
away with the temporary ailments 
which occasioned them ; if too great a 
fulness of the veins of the head, cup- 
ping, leeching, or abstraction of blood 
by means of the lancet, with a deple* 



56 



YOU ask! — I'll te-ll! 



tive course of treatment, must be 
adopted. 

Polypus of the Ear is by no 
means an uncommon form of the 
fungoid growth which sometimes oc- 
curs in several of the internal tissues. 
It is of a jelly-like consistence, and a 
whitish-yellow color, and is attached 
to the membraneous lining of the ear ; 
there are also granulations of fungus 
which sometimes shoot up from the 
membrane, and are distinguished by 
their reddisli hue from polypi ; these 
may generally be removed by being 
held firmly with a pair o'f forceps, and 
then gently twisted and pulled at the 
same time ; this should only be done 
by a properly qualified person, as much 
mischief may result from the unskilful 
application of the forceps to so delicate 
apart ; sometimes, when the polypus is 
in the external passage, and not far 
up, it may be destroyed by astrin- 
gent applications, such as the Muri- 
ated Tincture of Steel, or Burnt Alum, 
applied with a camel-hair brush. 

Wax in the Ear. — When this 
substance becomes too hard, or accu- 
mulates too much, there will be a 
sense of contraction, with cracking or 
hissing noises, and generally deafness 
to a considerable extent ; in this case 
the ear should be syringed with warm 
Boap-suds, the instrument used being 
a proper one for the purpose, holding 
about 4 ounces, and having but a 
small tube or pipe which does not fill 
the whole passage, but allows the 
escape of the baclc water, for catching 
which a hand basin should be held 
close against the neck. As many as a 
dozen syringefuls may be injected at 
one time. A strong lotion should be 
put into the ear-passage over night 
and kept there by means of cotton 
wool or wadding ; Almond Oil and 
Laudanum, in the proportion of 2 
ounces of the former to 1 of the latter, 
is a good application in this case, as 
in many other kinds of ear disease; 
it will also frequently stop Earache 
resulting from cold and other causes. 

INFLUENZA.-It has lately been 
very much the fashion to call any kind 



of cold which is accompanied with 
catarrhal symjjtoms. Influenza ; but 
this, in nine cases out of ten, is a mis- 
nomer ; the true disease seldom occurs 
except as an epidemic, attacking many 
persons at once ; it comes on quite sud- 
denly, and its symptoms are those of 
a general fever ; there is great prostra- 
tion of strength, generally showing loss 
of appetite, heat and thirst, cough and 
difficulty of breathing, owing to the 
air valves and bronchial passages being 
clogged with mucus ; there is also run- 
ning at the nose and eyes, weight 
across the brow, with throbbing pain, 
and great depression of spirits. The 
febrile symptoms do not commonly 
last more than four or five days, some- 
times but one or two, but the cough 
generally remains for a considerable 
time, varying according to circum- 
stances, such as exposure to cold or 
wet, predisposition to cough, etc. 

With the strong and healthy this is 
not a dangerous disease, but aged or 
weakly persons are frequently carried 
off by^ it. In the former case but little 
medical treatment is required. Keep 
the patient in bed, and let the temper- 
ature of the room be warm and equa- 
ble ; open the bowels with a gentle 
aperient, such as Rhubarb and Magne- 
sia, or Senna Mixture, and follow this 
up with weak Wine Whey, or some 
warm diluent drink, in a pint of which 
a grain of Tartar Emetic and a dram 
of Nitrate of Potash has been dis- 
solved ; give a wineglassful of this 
about every four hours. It is not gen- 
erally safe to practice much depletion, 
but where there is great difficulty of 
breathing, and irritation of the throat, 
a few leeches may be applied just 
above the breast-bone, in the hollow 
of the neck. Stimulating liniments 
may also be applied to the chest, and 
Mustard poultices, but bli^ers are 
scarcely to be recommended. Hot fo- 
mentations may also be useful, and 
medicated inhalations, such as a scru- 
I)le of powdered Hemlock or Henbane, 
sprinkled in the boiling water from 
which the steam ascends into the 
throat. The fresh leaves of the above 



DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 



67 



?lanta may be used, or a dram of the 
incture, if these cannot be procured. 
When the fever is subdued, if there is 
still cough and restlessness, a 5-grain 
Dover's Powder may be given at bed- 
time, or ^th of a grain of Acetate of 
Morphine, with a 5-grain Squill Pill, 
for the cough, if required. If there is 
great feebleness, tonics must be admin- 
istered; Infusion of Calumba, Casca- 
rilla, or Gentian, with Carbonate of 
Ammonia ; 1 ounce of the former with 
5 grains of the latter, three times a 
day, with a mildly nutritious diet — 
Broths, Arrowroot, Sago, and a small 
quantity of Wine. Such is an outline 
of the course to be pursued in most 
cases of Influenza which really require 
medical treatment at all ; generally 
warmth, rest, and good nursing will 
do all the business. Should the cough 
be very obstinate, and resist all efforts 
to remove it, change of air will gen- 
erally prove effectual, and this is bene- 
ficial in most cases. 

BRONCHITIS— Is one of the above- 
named forms of disease which claims a 
prominent notice at our hands. It may 
be succinctly described as inflammation 
of the lining membrane of the passages 
of the throat, thx-ough which the work 
of respiration is carried on. It will be 
evident that an inflamed state of these 
passages must, besides the local irrita- 
tion caused thereby, seriously interfere 
with the vital functions. 

Bronchitis may be either acute or 
chronic ; the»*former stage may com- 
mence immediately after exposure to 
cold; most usually the lining mem- 
brane of the eyelids, nostrils, and 
throat are first affected, and then the 
inflammation extends downwards into 
the chest. The earlier symptoms are 
running at the nose, watering of the 
eyes, frequent sneezing, and all the 
distressing symptoms of what is gen- 
erally known as Influenza, which see. 
The fever generally runs high, there is 
extreme lassitude, with headache, and 
probably a troublesome cough, with 
expectoration of mucus : with adults 
this, the most active stage of the dis- 
ease, frequently assumes a very danger- 



ous character, and prompt measures 
are required to arrest its progress. If 
the febrile symptoms continue to in- 
crease in intensity, and the breathing 
becomes difiicult from the clogging of 
the tubes with mucus, there is great 
reason for apprehension. The patient 
sliould, as a matter of course, be con- 
fined to bed ; warm diluent drinks, such 
as Linseed-tea, or Barley-water, with 
a slice or two of Lemon in it ; gentle 
aperients, if required ; foot-baths and 
a Mtistard Poultice applied to the chest. 
It is especially during the spring 
months, and when there is a prevalence 
of east wind, that Bronchitis attacks 
young and old, often hurrying the 
former to a premature grave, and mak- 
ing the downward course of the latter 
more quick and painful ; with aged 
people, in such cases, there is com- 
monly a great accumulaton of mucus 
in the bronchial tubes, which causes 
continued and violent coughing in the 
efforts to expel it, which efforts are 
often unsuccessful ; thus the respira- 
tion is impeded, the blood, for want of 
proper oxygenization, becomes unfit 
for the purposes of vitality, and death, 
often unexpectedly sudden, is the con- 
sequence. Such bronchitic patients 
must be carefully treated — no lower- 
ing measures will do for them, but 
warm and generous diet ; Opium can- 
not safely be ventured on. Warm 
flannel next the skin, a genial atmos- 
phere, inhalation of steam — if medi- 
cated with Horehound, or some demul- 
cent plants, so much the better — a 
couple of compound Squill Pills at 
night, and during the day a mixture, 
composed of Camphor Mixture, 6 
ounces, with Tincture of Squills,Wine 
of Ipecacuanha, and Aromatic Spirits 
of Ammonia, of each 2 drams, with 
perhaps 2 drams of Tincture of Hops 
— take a tablespoonful every three or 
four hours. Such is the most rational 
mode of treatment ; and this, and 
others to which we have alluded, are 
some of the forms in which bronchial 
disease manifests itself In all these 
forms, the condition of the digestive 
organs requires great attention; the 



58 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



cough, especially when it assumes 
a spasmodic character, depending fre- 
quently upon the state of the stomach ; 
so much so, that, when the stomach is 
empty, a little food taken during a 
violent fit of coughing has been known 
to stay it immediately. 

The following is said to be an excel- 
lent remedy : — Take common Mullein 
Leaves, dry and rub fine, and smoke 
them three or four times a day in a 
new pipe, taking care to draw the 
smoke well into the throat. 

CONSUMPTION is a wasting away 
of the body, resulting generally from 
disease of the lungs. It stands at the 
head of the diseases of our climate. 
The State of New York alone loses 
about twenty thousand persons a year 
by this terrible disease. 

The formation of tubercles on the 
lungs may arise from various causes ; 
where there is predisposition, the most 
trifling exposure to cold or damp, the 
least deviation from the rules of health, 
Avill frequently develop the disease ; 
and even where there is not, it requires 
but little to set it up ; and this is the 
case, not only in America, but all 
through Europe. 

Among the most general of the pre- 
disposing, or exciting causes, may be 
mentioned, in addition to the heredi- 
tary taint spoken of, a scrofulous habit 
of body, a peculiar formation of the 
chest, compressing the space appropri- 
ated to the lungs, so that they cannot 
have free play ; this is sometimes the 
result of artificial compression, against 
which we cannot raise our voice too 
loudly or too often. Inflammation of 
the lungs, catarrh, syphilis, king's evil, 
small-pox, measles, or any disease 
which has a tendency to impair the 
quality of the blood or weaken the 
system, may be classed among the 
causes of Consumption ; as may cer- 
tain employments which necessitate 
the breathing of an atmosphere load- 
ed with impurities, causing irritation 
of the pulmonary passages, which is 
likely to extend to the lungs them- 
Belves, and initiate tubercular disease. 
Previous to the invention of magnetic 



I guards for the mouth, which attract 
the minute particles of steel dust, and 
prevent their entering, needle grinders 
seldom attained to the age of forty 
years; and it is now found that hair- 
dressers, bakers, millers, masons, brick- 
layers, laboratory men, coal-heavers, 
chimney sweeps, dressers of flax and 
hemp, and workmen in leather ware- 
houses, are all especially liable to pul- 
monic disease. A slight cough, result- 
ing from a cold caught by sitting in a 
draught, or getting wet, or wearing 
damp linen, will, if neglected, often 
become worse, and eventually lead to 
Consumption. So too will scrofula, 
with which a large proportion of the 
ill-fed, ill-clad, and worse-housed lower 
classes are affected. It has been noted, 
that soon after scrofulous eruptions 
have disappeared from the surface of 
the skin, symptoms of Phthisis have 
shown themselves, a clear indication 
that the disease had retreated to the 
lungs, which would appear to be its 
internal stronghold. 

The symptoms of Consumption, al- 
though they vary somewhat with the 
cause of the disease, yet have a general 
similarity in their character. There 
is at first languor and a sense of de- 
bility. On the slightest exertion the 
pulse becomes accelerated, and the 
breathing difficult; there is often a 
short, dry cough, which increases in 
strength and frequency. At first there 
is little or no expectoration, but gradu- 
ally this comes on, and eventually be- 
comes copious, the thick mucus being 
after a while streaked or tinged with 
blood. There is gradual emaciation 
of the body and loss of strength ; theu 
come night-sweats, disturbed rest, and 
a hectic flush, or spot on the cheek — 
constant thirst, and a cough which 
seems to gather strength, in proportion 
as the frame, which it racks and tears, 
becomes more and more attenuated. 

There is at first a sense of tightness 
on the chest ; then, as the respiration 
becomes more labored, succeed sharp, 
cutting pains, particularly under tiie 
sternum, or breast-bone, and at the 
time of coughing ; very commonly the 



DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 



59 



mind partakes of tlie weakness of the 
body, and sinks into a desponding 
state, or has sudden alternations of 
hope and fear, clinging, however, fre- 
quently to the latter until life is ex- 
tinct. The termination of the sad 
scene is commonly brought about by 
the rupture of one or more of the 
blood-vessels of the lungs in a fit of 
coughing; haemorrhage ensues, and 
the patient sinks exhausted, to add 
another to the long catalogue of vic- 
tims to Consumption. 

If taken in the earlier stages, the 
progress of the disease may probably 
be arrested ; and, with great care, 
where there is known to be hereditary 
predisjiosition, it may possibly never 
be developed at all ; but when the 
tubercles are formed, and suppuration 
has commenced, the cough become 
distressing, and the expectoration con- 
siderable — although by the applica- 
tion of certain remedies, a removal to 
a mild climate, and a careful guarding 
against all adverse influences, the pro- 
gress of the disease may be for a time 
arrested, and so the life prolonged, yet 
it is not often that a permanent cure 
is effectual. 

For diet, those articles should be 
chosen that contain phosphorus, lime, 
soda, and iron. Inhalation of medi- 
cated vapor into the lungs is highly 
recommended, but as each case re- 
quires an inhalant adapted, it should 
be left to the physician to prescribe it. 
The cough may be relieved by the fol- 
lowing prescription : 1 ounce Tincture 
Bloodroot, Ij grains Sulphate of Mor- 
phia, J ounce Tincture Digitalis, J 
ounce Wine of Antimony, 10 drops 
of Oil of Wintergreen. Mix ; take 30 
drops 3 times a day. 

Cod-Liver Oil, a tablespoonful taken 
before each meal, has shown, in many 
cases, very remarkable and satisfac- 
tory results. The Medical Reporter 
says that a consumptive patient, now 
under treatment, is taking cream, with 
better effect than was experienced 
under the Cod-Liver Oil, previously 
tried. 

Eat the pure, sweet cream, abun- 



dantly, as much of it as the stomach 
will digest well. 

Night Sweats. — 1 dram Compound 
of Oxide of Zinc, and j dram Extract 
of Conium ; make 20 pills, and take 1 
or 2 every night. The sponge bath is 
also good for this purpose. 

piARRHCEA.— The best remedy for 
this attendant upon Consumption is 20 
or 30 grains of Tris-nitrate of Bis- 
muth after each meal. 

For the Cough. — 1 ounce Syrup of 
Tolu; 2 ounce Syrup of Squills; 2drama 
Wine of Ipecac; 3 drams Paregoric ; 1^ 
ounces Mucilage of Gum Arabic ; mix, 
and take a teaspoonful occasionally, 

PLEURISY.— This, which is the 
most common form of the above- 
named diseases, may be caused by ex- 
posure to cold, blows, falls, or any- 
thing which gives rise to inflamma- 
tion in other parts ; those of a full 
plethoric habit are chiefly subject to it. 

The early symptoms are generally 
cold chills, shivering fits, and rigor, 
which is followed by acute pain in the 
side, a flushed countenance, difficulty 
of breathing, dry cough, and full, hard, 
and frequent pulse. Pain is nearly 
always present, generally in a particu- 
lar spot under one of the breasts, but 
sometimes at another part of the chest, 
or on the shoulder, the armpit, or 
under the collar-bone ; it is greatly 
increased by pressure, coughing, and 
deep inspiration ; the patient, there- 
fore, breathes thick and short, sup- 
presses coughing as much as possible, 
and fears to exert himself, or to lie 
down. Sometimes the inflammation 
causes a sticking of the Pleura, and 
adhesion of the membrane covering 
the lungs, and that which lines the 
chest ; at other times there is an effu- 
sion of fluid into the cavity 

Treatment. — Copious bleeding from 
the arm should be at once resorted to 
if the patient can bear it, to be con- 
tinued at intervals until the pain and 
difficulty of breathing is relieved. 
Leeches, or cup; ing, and a warm 
poultice to the seal of pain; a large 
blister after the latter comes off" if 
necessary ; a full dose of Calomel im- 



60 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



mediately after the bleeding ; and then 
Tartar Emetic about every two hours, 
beginning with J a grain and increas- 
ing it to 2 grains ; if this produces 
vomiting and purging, lessen the dose 
again, and add 6 drops of Laudanum 
to each. When the urgent symptoms 
are relieved, give Calomel and Opium 
Pills, 2 grains of the former to ^ grain 
of the latter, every four hours, until 
the gums are affected ; or if this causes 
watery evacuations, give Grey Powder 
in 3-grain doses, or rub in a dram of 
^Mercurial Ointment every two hours ; 
the diet must be low, and perfect quiet 
maintained; the temperature of the 
room kept up to about 60° Fahr., 
and the patient somewhat elevated in 
the bed. Should symptoms of exhaus- 
tion arise, the difficulty of breathing 
increase, and coma or delirium be 
threatened, recourse must be had to 
stimulants, such as Beef Tea, with 
Wine, etc. The following mixture 
may also be given : Sesquicarbonate 
of Ammonia and Laudanum, of each 
^ a dram, to Camphor Mixture 6 
ounces ; take a tablespoonful every 
one, two, or three hours, as required. 

Pneumonia, or Lung Fever.— So 
similap in every respect are the symp- 
toms and treatment of this form of 
lung diseases to those described under 
the head of Pleurisy (see Pleurisy), 
that we need only refer our readers to 
that article for information. 

ASTHMA.— This is a disease of the 
lungs, whose main characteristic is 
laborious breathing, which comes in 
paroxysms, and is accompanied by a 
wheezing noise. The attack com- 
monly occurs in the night, the patient 
having gone to bed in a listless, drowsy 
state, with a troublesome cough, op- 
pression at the chest, and symptoms 
of flatulency ; towards midnight prob- 
ably the breathing becomes more la- 
bored, the wheezing sound louder, and 
the patient is obliged to assume an 
erect posture, to prevent suffocation. 
Sometimes he starts out of bed, and 
rushes to the window for air; or he 
mts with his body bent forward, his 
arms resting on his knees, with a 



flushed or livid face, if it be not 
deadly pale, gasping and struggling 
for breath, in a condition painfial to 
behold ; the pulse is weak and inter- 
mittent, with palpitation of the heart; 
sometimes there is vomiting, with in- 
voluntary emission of the urine, which 
is of a pale color, and relaxed bowels. 
The attack will probably last for a 
couple _f hours or more, when the 
severe symptoms will gradually remit, 
with an expectoration of frothy mu- 
cus, and a tranquil sleep follows. For 
some days there will be felt a tightness 
of the chest, and the slightest exertion 
brings on a difficulty of breathing ; 
there will be slighter paroxysms, and, 
after a longer or shorter period, another 
severe one. 

Humid Asthma is that in which 
the attack terminates with expectora- 
tion ; when it does not, this is called 
Dry Asthma; persons so afflicted have 
generally disease of the heart or lungs. 
When they have not, it is called Spas- 
modic Asthma, and to this persons are 
sometimes subject who, when the at- 
tack is past, may appear quite vigor- 
ous and healthy. 

The causes of Asthma are hereditary 
predisposition ; dwelling in a cold or 
moist atmosphere, or being subject to 
sudden changes of temperature ; in- 
ward gout, intense study, or great men- 
tal anxiety ; suppression of accus- 
tomed evacuations ; irritation of the 
air-cells and lungs by atmospheric im- 
purities ; irritation of the stomach, 
uterus, or other viscera. 

Treatment. — The objects to be at- 
tained in this are, first, to moderate 
the violence of the paroxysms ; sec- 
ond, to prevent its recurrence. Where 
the patient is of a full habit, not ad- 
vanced in years, and the disease is of 
no long standing, bleeding may be re- 
sorted to, especially if the face is 
fluslied, and the pulse moderately 
strong. But this must not be attempted 
if the disease has become chronic, and 
the patient is elderly, especially if the 
face during the attack is preternatu- 
rally pale and shrunk. In either case 
gentle aperients should be adminis- 



HEART DISEASES. 



61 



tered, and anti-spasmodic mixtures 
and injections ; a blister on the chest 
will often afford much relief. The 
following is a good formula for the 
mixture : — Tincture of Assafoetida 
and Sulphuric Ether, of each 2 drams ; 
Tincture of Opium, 1 dram ; Pepper- 
mint Water, 6 ounces ; mix, and take 
a tablespoonful every hour. If the 
expectoration is scanty and difficult, 
add to this Tincture of Squills, 2 
drams ; Wine of Tartarized Antimony, 
1 dram ; or make the vehicle, instead 
of Peppermint Water, Mixture of Am- 
moniacum, that is, about 2 drams of 
the gum rubbed down with 6 ounces 
of water. The best aperient is Castor 
Oil, given in Peppermint, or weak 
Brandy and Water. Where there is 
reason to suppose the stomach is over- 
loaded, an emetic, composed of 1 grain 
of Tartarized Antimony, and 1 scruple 
of Powder of Ipecacuanha, in half a 
tumbler of warm water, should be 
given. The enema thrown up may 
consist of 2 drams of Gum Assafoetida 
to a pint of thin gruel. Tincture of 
Lobelia Inflata is good in obstinate 
cases, dose 1 dram ; and also Tincture 
of Nicotiana, or Tobacco, in nauseat- 
ing doses ; inhaling the fumes of the 
leaves of this plant through a pipe, 
and also of Stramonium, is sometimes 
of service, and the good effect of either 
will be assisted by a cup of hot coffee, 
putting the feet in warm water, or 
using the warm bath. 

To prevent the return of a paroxysm 
of Asthma, avoid the exciting causes, 
keep the bowels gently open with 
Rhubarb or some other mild aperient, 
and strengthen the tone of the stomach 
by hitter infusions, such as Camomile 
or Gentian ; if there is tightness of the 
chest, put on a blister, and take an 
emetic now and then to clear out the 
phlegm from the bronchial passage; 
take at bedtime 10 grains of Dover's 
Powder, or the same of compound 
Squill Pill, with a little warm gruel. 
For the rest, take light and nourishing 
diet, avoiding everything difficult of 
digestion; wear warm clothing — flan- 
nel next the skin — have regular and 



moderate exercise, change of climate 
if possible, should the situation occu- 
pied be damp, or bleak and exposed. 
Do not indulge in sensual or intemper- 
ate habits. 

Hay- Asthma. — Also called Hay- 
Fever, or Summer Bronchitis, is a 
disease which occurs about the time of 
the hay harvest, and appears to be 
caused by the pollen of some wild 
plants getting into and inflaming the 
bronchial passages. This theory is 
supported by the fact that those who 
live in situations where there is little 
or no vegetation do not suffer from it. 
A difficulty of breathing, and a burn- 
ing sensation in the throat, are the 
chief characteristics of this affection, 
on which no remedies seem to exercise 
a curative effect ; a removal to a dif- 
ferent locality is most effectual. 

Sometimes Chloride of lime, placed 
in different parts of the sleeping- 
room, has a good effect. Tincture of 
Lobelia in 30-drop doses gives some 
relief. 

Diseases of the Heart. — These 
may be divided into — 1st, Functional 
or Nervous; and 2d, Structural, or 
Organic. Chief among the former we 
have Palpitation, Syncope or Fainting, 
and A7igina Pectoris. In a structure 
so complex, and formed of such differ- 
ent tissues as the Heart is, one might 
expect that it would be subject to 
many diseases of both a general and a 
partial character; and, accordingly, 
we find there are few persons who have 
not had to complain of symptoms 
which were indicative of Heart affec- 
tion of some kind, although few, per- 
haps, really have what may be properly 
called Heart disease. Strong emotions 
of the mind, derangements of the liver 
or stomach, will often cause flutteriugs 
and palpitations, an increase or de- 
crease of arterial action, and other 
symptoms, which would seem to indi- 
cate that there was something very 
wrong with the great organ and centre 
of circulation ; but these symptoms, in 
a great majority of cases, are merely 
sympathetic; and very commonly, 
when a person is said to die of " a bro- 



62 



YOU ask! — i^LL tell! 



ken heart," there is no organic disease 
to justify the popular verdict. 

Among the principal organic dis- 
eases to which the Heart is subject, 
we may notice first, Pericarditis, or In- 
flammation of the Pericardium, which 
may be induced by exposure to damp 
and cold, and other causes which affect 
the serous membranes of the body 
generally. The symptoms are tender- 
ness over the region of the Heart, 
amounting, when pressure is made, to 
sharp, cutting pains, so that the 
patient cannot lie on the left side; 
most commonly the pleura, or invest- 
ing membrane of the lungs, is involved 
in the mischief, and in this case, there 
will be acute pain on coughing or 
drawing a deep breath ; sometimes, 
however, there is little or no acute 
pain, only a sense of heaviness and 
oppression : generally the pulsations 
are accelerated, often so much so as to 
constitute flutterings or palpitation : 
they may be regular or intermittent ; 
although it is not easy to feel this, if, 
as is frequently the case, there is much 
effusion into the pericardium ; this 
may be detected by the bulging out of 
the skin of the thorax over the seat of 
disease : of the nature of the effusion — 
whether it be merely thin bloody 
serum, or thick with coagulated lymph, 
or fibrous, or containing cartilaginous 
or osseous deposits — can only be deter- 
mined by auscultation employed by a 
skilful person. Pericarditis is one of 
the most frequent and worst features 
of acute Rheutnatism. 

CARDITIS, or Inflammation of the 
Heart, sometimes occurs, and here, al- 
though the principal seat of mischief 
is the muscular tissue of the organ it- 
self, yet its investing membrane is 
generally implicated more or less, and 
the same symptoms are presented as 
those just described, although it is 
likely to be in an aggravated degree. 
It would be useless to prescribe any 
general plan of treatment in these cases, 
as this must depend very much upon 
the peculiarities which they present, 
and the temperament and condition of 
the patient. Of course, if inflamma- 



tion is quite apparent, low diet and 
aperients must be the rule ; leeches 
may be applied over the cardiac re- 
gion, if there is miKsh pain, and 
especially if accompanied by a pricking 
or burning sensation ; but the lancet 
should never be used, except by the 
medical man, who alone can judge of 
its propriety. Perfect rest, and an 
avoidance of all excitement, should 
always be enjoined in this and other 
cases of Heart disease. 

ENDOCARDITIS, or Inflammation 
of the lining membrane of the Heart, 
is commonly an attendant of the two 
former diseases, or of inflammation of 
the internal coat of one or more of the 
principal veins : its chief symptoms 
are fever and anxiety, with bulging of 
the precordial region ; it requires, like 
the others, as a rule, rest and anti- 
phlogistic treatment. 

Atrophy of the Heart sometimes 
accompanies a state of general debility; 
it is a consequence of a deficiency in 
the supply of blood, and will be pretty 
sure to terminate in death. 

Hypertrophy of the Heart, is the 
result of an excess of nutrition; the 
nutritive process here appears to go on 
more rapidly than the absorbent. 
Fresh matter is deposited before the 
old is removed, and hence there is an 
increase in bulk, which interferes with 
the proper performance of the organic 
functions. Hearts have been known 
to increase in this way to more than 
double their proper size and weight. 
Hypertrophy is usually divided into 
three kinds, viz. : simple, eccentric, or 
aneurismal, and concentric. The first 
is the least common; in this ih-Qparietes, 
or divisions, are thickened, without 
any diminution in the capacity of the 
cavities ; the second, most frequent, 
has the parietes thickened, and the 
cavity proportionably enlarged ; the 
third, has the cavity diminished, in 
proportion to the thickening of the 
walls. Any one of these forms of 
Hypertrophy may affect a single cavity, 
or the whole Heart. If the left ven- 
tricle is attacked, apoplexy and 
hsemorrhages sometimes ensue. In 



HEART DISEASES. 



63 



this disease, the pulsations are for the 
most part regular and strong, often 
visibly raising the bedclothes ; the 
chest is bulged out on the left side, 
and the sound on percussion dull. 
Rest, abstinence, sedative medicines, 
and more or less depletion, according 
to the circumstances of the case, are 
the proper remedial measures. It is 
only by perseverance in this course 
that any good can be looked for. 

Dilation of the Heart, is some- 
times caused by excessive exertion and 
strong excitements of any kind; in 
this case it would seem to be the re- 
sult of increased action. The whole 
substance of the organ, or one or more 
of the cavities or smaller orifices, may 
be dilated, the walls being merely 
extended without any increase of 
substance. In this case, the muscular 
parietes being thinned and feeble, 
there will be a want of vigor in the 
circulation, the muscular compression 
and extension will be weak and ir- 
regular, and the valvular action 
incomplete, so that the blood will fre- 
quently escape out of its proper 
channels, and these haemorrhages, 
although trifling in themselves, will 
so reduce the patient that he will, 
probably, be carried ofFby one of them. 
Abstinence from the exciting causes 
of the disease, rest, and nourishing 
diet, with strict attention to the 
general state of the health, are the 
means to be taken in this case. 

Disease of the Valves, so commonly 
follows Endocarditis, if of long con- 
tinuance, that it may almost be 
considered as a chronic form of that 
disease; it is a thickening of the internal 
lining of the Heart, especially at the 
valves ; it becomes not merely thick- 
ened uniformly, but is the seat of 
warty excrescences, and even cartila- 
ginous and osseous formations of con- 
siderable size, extending into the cav- 
ities of the Heart, In old persons, and 
especially those addicted to a generous 
mode of living, we most frequently 
meet with ossification, the effects of 
which are sanguineous and serous con- 
gestion, difficulty of breathing, apo- 



plectic seizures, and other symptoms 
of embarrassed circulation. 

Nervous, or Spasmodic afiectiona 
of the Heart, are met with most fre- 
quently in women who are suffering 
from anaemia, chlorosis, hysteria, etc., 
and in men of a quick, irritable tem- 
perament naturally, or rendered so by 
the free use of stimuli, or an unre- 
strained indulgence of the passions, and 
irregularities which seriously interfere 
with the working of this delicate piece 
of machinery, whose stoppage must 
cause instant death. 

Palpitation of the Heart has been 
experienced by most persons who have 
run themselves out of breath, or by 
any violent exertion caused a great 
increase of action in the respiratory 
and circulatory organs. In a healthy 
and proper state, we are not generally 
sensible of the regular beat, beat, of 
the pulse, which goes on night and 
day, whether we sleep or wake, and 
tells that the great organ of vitality 
is duly performing its office ; but 
when, from any cause, these beats 
become unusually frequent, and forci- 
ble, we both feel and hear them, in a 
very troublesome and distressing man- 
ner ; and especially is this the case 
when the bodily strength has been 
reduced, and the nervous sensibility 
increased by sickness ; sometimes the 
pulsations are loud and clear and 
regulai", at others they are faint and 
intermittent ; now a distinct throb or 
several, and then a tremulous flutter, 
or a quick beat. 

When there is violent throbbing of 
the Heart, which may be felt by a 
hand pressed upon the chest, while 
the patient is himself unconscious of 
it, there is reason to apprehend or- 
ganic disease ; but when there is such 
acute consciousness as we have de- 
scribed, there is generally only func- 
tional, or nervous derangement, with- 
out any structural change. 

A disordered stomach may be the 
cause, although there may be no other 
symptoms ot this : we have known 
cases in which a very slight irregu- 
larity in the mode of living has pro- 



64 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



duced Palpitation of the Heart, and 
that, too, in an otherwise healtliy 
person. In some, almost any strong 
nervous stimulant will produce it, and 
we recollect one instance in which it 
always came on after a cup of tea, 
and was never troublesome when this 
beverage was not taken : we mention 
this to show that Palpitation is not 
always, nor indeed commonly, symp- 
tomatic of Heart disease, and need 
therefore cause no unnecessary alarm, 
although its frequent recurrence should 
set the patient inquiring as to what 
is the real cause. Young women 
with whom there is derangement of 
the menstrual functions, in whom the 
blood is watery and poor, wanting 
the red corpuscles ; the listless, the 
pallid, the hysterical, in these we 
meet with Palpitation in its most 
aggravated forms ; as also in the in- 
dolent, the susceptible, and the deli- 
cate ; those who dwell on morbid 
fancies, and excite the imagination 
with sensual thoughts, or horrible 
pictures — to such every beat of the 
pulse seems like a call from the world 
of spirits, every flutter and palpita- 
tion like a brush from the wings of 
the angel of death, or the whispering 
voice of an accusing conscience. In 
these cases the only treatment likely 
to be of service must be directed 
towards removing the predisposing 
and exciting causes, and establishing 
a more healthful nervous condition — 
gentle exercise, tonics, change of air 
and scene, an endeavor to occupy 
the mind in some useful and moral 
pursuit, a well regulated and gener- 
ally frugal, although sufficiently nour- 
ishing diet, and a strict avoidance of 
all that can excite or stimulate either 
mind or body. By this means Pal- 
pitations, not connected with organic 
disease, may generally be got rid of. 
If the patient is of a full habit, and has 
a tolerably strong pulse, bleeding or 
cupping may perhaps be resorted to 
with aclvantage ; but this should be 
cautiously done. In such, too, a 
course of gentle purgatives may be 
necessary ; they should not be salines. 



but of a cordial nature, something 
like this: — Pill of Aloes and Myrih, 
and Compound Galbanum Pill, of 
each J a dram ; divide into 12 pills, 
and take one at bedtime. Compound 
Infusion of Senna and Decoction of 
Aloes, of each 3 ounces; Spirits of 
Sal Volatile, 1 dram ; Compound 
Tincture of Cardamums, 2 drama* 
Tartrate of Potash, J ounce ; mix, and 
take two tablespoon fuls occasionallv. 

HEARTBURN is a sense of uneasi- 
ness at the pit of the stomach, from 
whence it ascends, with acid eructa- 
tions and a burning heat, into the 
throat. Sometimes it is accompanied 
by faintness, nausea, and vomiting, 
and commonly by what is termed 
Water-brash, and the mouth becoming 
filled with a limpid fluid from the 
stomach, the upper orifice of which is. 
called cardis, from its being the seat of 
the Heart ; it is especially liable to be 
disturbed by any irritating causes, and 
such disturbance we term Heartburn 
or Cardialgia. Anything which de- 
ranges the functions of the stomach 
will be likely to cause this — indigesti- 
ble food, especially butter and cheese, 
or fat and oil of whatsoever kind; so 
also will strong mental emotion and 
pregnancy, in the latter months of 
which there is usually more or less 
Heartburn. The best remedies are 
alkalies, combined with mild ape- 
rients, such as Magnesia, or Tartrate 
of Soda and Rhubarb. If there is 
much flatulency, Gregory's Powder, in 
^ dram doses, is good ; and where the 
pain is great, about 5 drops of Lauda- 
num may be taken with each dose. 
In obstinate cases, a leech or two, or a 
succession of small blisters, to the pit 
of the stomach, will probably be use- 
ful ; but the main thing is a well regu- 
lated and simple diet, and avoidance 
of the oflending substances ; no ale, 
beer, nor wine, but a little brandy and 
water at dinner; gentle exercise, and 
the treatment directed under the head 
of Dyspepsia. 

The Pulse. — As the Heart is the 
great central organ of circulation, and 
sympathizes with all the changes which 



LIVER COMPLAINTS. 



65 



take place in the system at large, it 
follows that the Pulse must be an im- 
portant guide to those whose investi- 
gations are directed to the discovery of 
the ailments which cause functional 
and other derangements. All should, 
therefore, make themselves acquainted 
with the language of the Pulse, which 
may easily be felt by the fore and mid- 
dle fingers, pressed slightly on the up- 
per and under side of the wrist, about 
an inch above the lower joint of the 
thumb, where the pulsating artery lies. 
The beats may then be distinctly 
counted, and a little practice will ren- 
der the detection of any irregularity 
or difference of force easy. With a 
healthy man, in the prime of life, there 
will be about seventy-two beats in a 
minute, that is supposing him to 
be quiet and unexcited. Any great 
bodily exertion, or mental emotion, 
will render the pulse more rapid. With 
children, where there is a great activity 
both of body and mind, the arterial ac- 
tion will be accelerated. We give the 
above as a general average. Age has a 
great influence in the frequency of the 
pulse. M. Quetelet gives the follow- 
ing as a scale of averages : — At birth, 
136 per minute ; at 5 years old, 88 ; at 
from 10 to 15 years, 78 ; at from 15 to 
25 years, 69 ; at from 25 to 30 years, 
71 ; at from 30 to 56 years, 70. 

LIVER. — This is the largest glandu- 
lar apparatus in the body, and one of 
its most important offices is to secrete 
the bile. Having this important duty 
to perform, it is of the utmost conse- 
quence that the Liver should be kept 
free from disturbing agencies, so that 
it may be in a proper condition for the 
discharge of its functions. The evil to 
which it is most liable is a disturbance 
of its circulation, causing either active 
or passive congestion, both of which 
are by no means uncommon conditions 
of the organ ; in the former case, there 
will be an increase in the flow of bile ; 
in the latter case, probably a decrease, 
or an altered state of the secretion. 
Sometimes an inflammation of the or- 
gan occurs; this is most common in hot 
climates ; it is called, in scientific lan- 
6 



guage. Hepatitis; in this disease we have 
suspension of the secretion altogether, 
and a softening or hardening of the 
substance of the Liver, or the forma- 
tion of abscesses, according to the de- 
gree and nature of the disease. 

Active Congestion of the Livef 
may be a consequence of an irritated 
state of its tissues, owing, probably, ta 
the retention in the blood of the ma- 
terials which ought to have been taken 
up by the kidneys, the skin, or some 
other excretory organ ; or it may be 
owing to the pressure of too much car- 
bonaceous matter in the food; or there 
may be some local cause, some organic 
disease of the Liver itself. Either of 
these will tend to an excessive secretion 
of bile, and cause what are called bil- 
ious disorders of the stomach. 

Passive Congestion of the Liver 
is usually the result of some mechani- 
cal impediment to the due supply of 
blood to the organ, or to its return 
from thence ; the mischief may be an 
impeded action of the heart, or a de- 
fective operation of the functions of the 
lungs ; or it may be caused by con- 
tinued pressure upon the seat of the 
Liver, such as results from leaning at 
a desk, or remaining in a stooping 
position ; persons of sedentary habits 
are likely to be affected in this way. 
It may be merely what is called " a 
sluggish Liver ;" there is a diminution 
in the quantity of the bile, but no al- 
teration of its quality. In the more 
severe forms of Passive Congestion, 
however, the bile, after its secretion has 
been suspended for a time, becomes 
acrid and plentiful, causing, when it 
passes into the intestines, much consti- 
tutional disturbance. 

The symptoms of Congestion are 
generally great uneasiness in the 
right side, and a dull, heavy pain near 
to the shoulder-blade of that side ; if 
active, as before observed, the bile will 
be plentiful, coloring the evacuations, 
and producing often a bitter taste in 
the mouth, and leading sometimes to 
Jaundice ; if passive, there is also the 
same uneasiness and pain in the region 
of the Liver, with a diminished flow of 



66 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



bile, or a changed condition of it, as 
before described ; and after a while 
there is probably acute inflammation set 
up, which generally seizes on the sub- 
stance of the Liver, and involves the 
whole, or only a part of it ; most com- 
monly the former is the case. 

In the acute stages of inflammation 
there is pain in the right side, 
which is increased on pressure, or 
when a deep breath is drawn; there is 
usually, too, quick breathing, often a 
cough, but not always either of these. 
Nearly always there is pain in the 
right shoulder, and more or less of 
yellowness of the eyes, and, indeed, of 
the whole skin ; occasionally absolute 
jaundice ; the urine is high colored, 
and the fauces either pale and clayey, 
or tinged with greenish-yellow bile ; 
vomiting, too, is sometimes a symptom. 

Treatment of acute Liver inflamma- 
tion should be active measures of de- 
pletion to prevent the formation of ab- 
scesses. If the system will bear it, 
there should be Cupping or Leeching 
over the seat of the organ, to be fol- 
lowed up with Hot Bran Poultices, 
and afterwards by a Blister, the latter 
to be several times repeated, if re- 
quired; the bowels should be freely 
opened, and the system reduced by Cal- 
omel combined with Colocynth, or some 
other active purgative, to be followed 
by a saline aperient mixture, as under: 
Epsom Salts, 6 drams; Liquor of Ace- 
tate of Ammonia, 1 ounce ; Tartrate of 
Potash, 2 grains ; Wine of Colchicum, 
1 dram ; Camphor Mixture, suflScient 
to make 6 ounces ; 1 ounce to be taken 
every four hours. The Calomel to be 
kept up for some time in small doses, 
combined with Opium, if the pain is 
violent. When there is reason to be- 
lieve that suppuration has taken place, 
the treatment must be altered, and 
nourishing food and tonics given with 
mineral acids, such as the Muriatic 
with Gentian. 

For Chronic Inflammation of the 
Liver: — Leptandrin, 1 dram; Podo- 
phyllin, 1 scruple ; Apocynin, 1 scru- 
ple ; Extract Nux Vomica, 6 grains ; 
Castile Soap, 1 dram ; make 30 pills. 



take one every night ; a continued use 
of this, and daily sponging the chest 
and bowels with water, in which a lit- 
tle Nitric and Muriatic Acid has been 
mixed, following up the same with 
vigorous friction over the parts, will 
gradually result in a cure 

Inflammation of the Spleen.— The 
symptoms of this disease are much the 
same as Inflammation of the Liver, 
excejit that the spleen is ou the left 
side, while the liver is on tne right 
side. The treatment for this disease, 
both in its acute and chrouic form, 
should be the same as for Inflammation 
of the Livex 

JAUNDICE. — A disease proceed- 
ing from an obstruction of the flow 
of bile in the liver, and characterized 
by a yellow color in the skin. 

The peculiar effects which we notice 
in Jaundice are occasioned by the ab- 
sorption of bile into the circulation, 
owing to some impediment to its 
passage in the usual way from the 
liver. The most common obstructions 
are Oall-stoneb, tumors which press 
upon the duct; or spasm, causing con- 
striction of the same, may also be the 
cause; and sometimes strong mental 
emotion. In this disease we notice 
that the white of the eye acquires a 
yellow color, varying from the slight- 
est tinge to that of gold; the whole 
of the skin of the face, too, and some- 
times of other jjarts of the body, as- 
sumes the same tint ; the stools become 
white and chalky - looking, and the 
urine, and sometimes also the perspi- 
ration, is tinged with bile. 

A loathing of food, sour stomach, 
bad taste in the mouth, disinclination 
to move about, sleepiness, especially 
after dinner, and often a giddiness 
when stooping, are peculiar features. 

Of itself, this is not a dangerous 
disease; but, as symptomatic of or- 
ganic mischief going on somewhere, 
it should be viewed with fear, and 
have immediate medical attention. 

Treatment. — Begin with an emetic, 
then take equal parts of Wild Cherry 
Bark, Bayberry Bark, Barberry Bark, 
Prickly Ash Bark, and Horse Radish 



DISEASES OF STOMACH. 



67 



Root, say 1 ounce of each, well bruised, 
tind steep all night in 4 pints of Cider : 
take a little of it after each meal ; the 
more vegetables and ripe fruits the 
better. Acid drinks should be used. 
Nitric and Muriatic Acid mixed with 
Water will do well; and the same 
mixture for a sponge bath every morn- 
ing is invaluable in this complaint, 
especially if vigorous friction precedes 
or follows it. An occasional warm 
bath is a great help. This treatment, 
if persevered in, will eradicate it from 
the system. 

Inflammation of the Stomach. — 
There is generally pain after eating, 
and sometimes the meals are vomited 
up ; urine is scanty, and high colored. 

Treatment. — Leeches to the pit of the 
stomach, followed by fomentations, 
cold iced water for drink, bowels to 
be evacuated by clysters ; abstinence 
from all food except cold gruel, milk 
and water, or tea. Avoid excesses, 
and condiments. 

Indigestion — Dyspepsia gener- 
ally begins with pain in the stomach 
soon after eating ; an irregular appe- 
tite ; after a large meal there is pain 
and nervousness, restlessness, and 
sometimes vomiting, or belching up 
of sour wind; a clear fluid, called 
water-brash, rises, and runs from the 
mouth ; a feeling of emptiness and 
great weakness at the pit of the 
Btomach, a bad taste in the mouth, 
headache, heartburn, and sometimes 
palpitation ; the bowels are irregular, 
sometimes the food passes off" in an 
undigested state. 

The great cause of Dyspepsia is the 
food not being well chewed, but eaten 
too fast ; this generally leads to eating 
too much, so that the stomach is over- 
loaded, and digestion cannot proceed, 
because it cannot be well churned, 
neither can the gastric juice permeate 
the compacted mass. To this may be 
added drinking largely, especially cold 
water, at meals, so that the food is 
washed down instead of being well- 
chewed and mixed with the saliva. 

Treatment, — The bowels must be 
regulated, kept open. This can often 



be done by eating food of a laxative 
nature, such as bran bread, etc., but 
generally some gentle medicine is re- 
quired. Mix 4 ounces sweet Tincture 
of Rhubarb, and 2 drams Bicarbon- 
ate of Soda, and take a tablespoonful 
after dinner. The acidity of the 
stomach may be removed by taking a 
teaspoonful of Carbonate of Magnesia 
in a little water when required. 

Plenty of out-door exercise is neces- 
sary, and it should be of such a char- 
acter as to engage the mind. The 
brain must have rest. Care and anxi- 
ety must sometimes be laid aside. 

Water-Brash is a term applied to 
a discharge of thin watery fluid from 
the mouth, when the stomach is 
empty. It comes up about J an ounce 
at the time, with acid eructations, but 
without much straining, sometimes to 
the extent of a pint. It is a symptom 
of irritable and neuralgic indigestion, 
or a form of Dyspepsia, and also of 
some of the more malignant diseases 
of the stomach. Persons who take 
much oatmeal are peculiarly subject 
to this affection. Why they are so, 
has not yet been clearly ascertained. 

Treatment. — Bismuth, a full dose, 
will generally afford relief; if there is 
pain. Morphine should also be taken, 
or some other anodyne. After the 
water has ceased to flow, some sto- 
machic should be given, with a min- 
eral acid. A mixture like this will be 
best : — Infusion of Cascarilla, 6 ounces; 
dilute Sulphuric Acid, 3 drams; Tinc- 
ture of Cardamums, 2 drams : take a 
sixth part twice a day. Attention 
should be paid to the action of the 
liver before administering these reme- 
dies ; perhaps a little mild mercurial, 
such as Blue Pill, or Grey Powder, 
had better be given in any case, about 
a couple of doses, combined with Rhu- 
barb. 

Vomiting, or Nausea. — A term 
commonly applied to sickness of the 
stomach, a loathing or tendency to re- 
ject, without actual vomiting. 

The sensation of nausea is usually 
referred to the stomach, and is no 
doubt commonly due to causes con- 



68 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



nected with that organ only ; yet very 
frequently the feeling is sympathetic, 
having its origin in the brain or the 
nervous system. Thus we know that a 
severe blow on the head, a dislocation, 
or other injury to any part of the 
body, attended with severe pain, will 
occasion Nausea ; so will horrible and 
disgusting sights and sounds and 
odors, or anything which affects the 
brain through the medium of the 
senses. The Nausea of pregnancy, too, 
appears to be purely sympathetic, and 
the action of emetics must be attrib- 
uted rather to their influence on the 
nervous system, than directly on the 
stomach ; for it has been found that 
they act as well when injected into the 
veins as when swallowed. So we find 
that gall-stones in the kidneys, tu- 
mors in the womb, and many other 
diseased conditions of the various 
organs, give rise to a feeling of sick- 
ness — all showing that this feeling is, 
in many cases, merely sympathetic. 
The relaxed state of the nervous, and 
consequently of the muscular system, 
which attends Nausea, is favorable to 
the performance of certain surgical 
operations, such as the reduction of 
dislocations, ruptures, or constrictions. 
Hence surgeons, previous to such, 
often j-roduce it artificially by the 
administration of tartar emetic. 

The proper remedies for Nausea, of 
course, will depend upon the causes. 
If it proceeds from affection of the 
brain, but little can be done to relieve 
it; if from disorder ol the stomach, 
free vomiting, which may be easily 
excited by warm water and a little 
Ipecacuanha, or merely tickling the 
fauces with a feather, or a brisk pur- 
gative, will aflbrd relief; if occasioned 
by some nervous shock to the system, 
a glass of Sherry Wine or a little 
Brandy, or some other nervous 
stimulant. In any case, effervescing 
draughts made with Carbonate of 
Soda and Lemon-Juice will be grate- 
ful, and probably effectual ; if other 
means fail, a Mustard Plaster to the 
pit of the stomach may be tried ; or 
Creosote, in drop doses, rubbed down 



with a little Sugar or Gum ; or a mix* 
ture like this — Hydrocyanic Acid, 12 
drops ; Acetate of Morphine, 1 grain ; 
Carbonate of Soda, 1 dram ; in Water, 
6 ounces : take a tablespoonful every 
three hours. A drop of the above acid, 
or of Creosote in Soda Water, is also 
likely to be of service. A reclining 
position is best for the patient ; and 
perfect quietude, both of body and 
mind, especially when the affection 
has a nervous origin. 

Inflammation of the Bowels.— 
Leeches, blisters, fomentations, hot 
baths applied to the belly, the warm 
bath once in two days ; the diet should 
be arrowroot, gruel, or sago ; after 
this mutton brotn, boiled chicken, etc., 
fresh air and gentle exercise as soon 
as the strength will permit ; to move 
the bowels, make a clyster of IJ pints 
of Gruel, a tablespoonful of Castor Oil, 
one tablespoonful of Salt, and a lump 
of Butter, mix and inject slowly : one- 
third of this is enough for an infant. 

COLIC. — The symptoms of Colic, 
in general, are a painful distension of 
the lower region of the belly, with 
a twisting round of the navel, and 
very commonly vomiting, costiveness, 
and spasms. Among the most fre- 
quent causes may be named worms, 
poisonous or unwholesome substances, 
long undigested food, redundancy of 
vitiated bile, internal gout and rheu- 
matism, intense cold, hard or acid 
fruits, or vegetables. 

The treatment must depend greatly 
upon the cause; thus, in Bilious CoWc, 
where there is loss of appetite, bitter 
taste in the mouth, great thirst, fever, 
costiveness, and vomiting, with spas- 
modic pains, mercurials and purgatives 
must be administered, with efferves- 
cing draughts, fomentations, and fric- 
tion. If the symptoms become violent, 
and inflammation of the intestines 
appears likely, bleeding by the lancet 
or leeches may be resorted to, espe- 
cially if the patient be young and 
plethoric. In Flatulent Colic, where 
there is costiveness, pain, soreness, and 
griping of the bowels, rumbling, and 
distension, with inclination to vomit, 



DISEASES OF BOWELS. 



69 



and coldness of the extremities, the ad- 
ministration of aromatic cordials, with 
opiates and purgatives, warm applica- 
tions to the stomach, and antispas- 
modic clysters ejected every three or 
four hours ; bleeding, as above, if in- 
flammation is threatened. In Hysteric 
Colic, where there is nausea, spasms, 
costiveness, and great dejection of 
spirits, the proper course will be laxa- 
tives, if required, with Spirits of Am- 
monia, Sulphuric Ether, and, after the 
bowels have been evacuated. Camo- 
mile Tea, or other bitter infusion, 
with a little anodyne. Turpentine 
clysters have also been found useful. 

Although Colic is properly a painful 
affection of the colon, without inflam- 
mation or fever, yet it is frequently 
accompanied with febrile and inflam- 
matory symptoms, and often results in 
infiammation of the bowels. It may 
generally be distinguished from actual 
inflammation by the spasmodic con- 
traction of the abdomen, the absence, 
or trifling degree of fever and insensi- 
bility to pressure, and also by the state 
of the pulse. 

For Lead, or Painters^ Colic, so called 
because it formerly prevailed in cider 
•counties, where leaden vessels were 
much used in the manufacture of the 
beverage, the same general remedies 
may be used as for other forms of colic : 
for the Palsy, arising from the absorp- 
tion of lead, which is generally con- 
fined to the wrists, galvanism, friction, 
and shampooing, with Bath, or other 
chalybeate waters. Those engaged in 
the manufacture of lead, or in occu- 
pations in which one or other of its 
preparations are frequently handled, 
may generally escape its baneful ef- 
fects by strict attention to cleanliness ; 
they should never take their meals 
where they work, or with unwashed 
hands. Let them eat fat meat, and 
butter, and acidulous drinks, espe- 
cially those rendered so by Sulphuric 
Acid. From the first attack of Lead 
Colic, patients generally recover ; but 
unless they change their occupations, 
■or observe the above precautions with 
scrupulous care, the attacks are re- 



peated, each time with greater violence, 
and they become, eventually, miserable 
cripples. 

CONSTIPATION. — Habitual con- 
finement of the bowels, which is pro- 
duced from want of tone in the mus- ' 
cular coat of the stomach, or a ten- 
dency to absorb the fluid elements of 
the foeces, so that they are left in too 
solid a form for the muscles to act 
upon. The latter is more commonly 
the case. 

Treatment. — The observance of a 
regular period of evacuating the bow- 
els, which is most proper in the morn- 
ing after breakfast. The use of mild 
aperients, brown bread instead of 
white. There should be an entire 
change in the dietary for a few days 
while taking opening medicine. Lep- 
tandrin, 1 dram ; Podophyllin, 1 scru- 
ple ; Apocynin, 1 scruple ; Extract 
Nux Vomica, 6 grains ; Castile Soap, 
1 dram : mix, and make 30 pills, take 
1 pill every night. Sometimes an in- 
jection of cold water once a day, for a 
week or two, will cure costiveness 
without medicine. 

FILES. — The troublesome disease 
so called, consists of tumors situated 
on the verge of the anus, or funda- 
ment, which tumors are formed by the 
distension of the veins at the extrem- 
ity of the rectum, or lower bowel ; 
they are usually about the size of a 
bean, sometimes much larger, and are 
caused by the distension of the veins 
with congested blood. When there is 
an action of the bowels they are forced 
down, and if there is much constipa- 
tion and straining, or much exertion 
necessary, so as to irritate and inflame 
the parts, they are likely to be greatly 
distended, so that they cannot be 
pressed back again ; in this case they 
become very large and painful, and 
eventually perhaps burst, to the great 
relief of the patient ; or they may run 
into abscesses, and, it may be, lay the 
foundation of a fistula. 

Piles may be either " blind " or 
" bleeding ; " the latter is the case 
when the veins within the bowels be- 
come much swollen, of a red color, 



70 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



aud uneven surface, having their walls 
60 thin that the slightest effort to re- 
lieve the bowels causes them to bleed 
freely. The former is when the swell- 
ings become filled with a fibrinous 
deposit from the blood, so that they 
form tumors and excrescences outside 
the anus; sometimes these, although 
inconvenient, are not very troublesome 
otherwise. If the cause which pro- 
duced them be removed, they will be 
likely to remain quiescent for a time ; 
but strong purgative medicines, a cold, 
or too much exertion, may stimulate 
them into activity, then they become 
inflamed and very painful ; then we 
have what is called " A Fit of the 
Piles." Persons with torpid livers, or 
with whom the venous circulation is 
sluggish, are those most subjected to 
Piles, which are no doubt the result 
of passive congestion of the veins 
about the rectum ; but it will usually 
be found that the disease will not be- 
come fully developed unless there is 
also habitual constipation. The treat- 
ment should therefore be both local 
and general ; the first directed to re- 
move all obstacles to the proper action 
of the liver, and to cleanse the large 
bowels of matters which may press 
upon the veins, and impede the return 
of the blood from the lowest bowel, 
which is the seat of the disease. To 
this end we should give mild aperients, 
combined with alteratives, beginning 
with pills like these : Rhubarb, 1 dram ; 
Ipecacuanha, ^ a dram; Blue Pill, 1 
scruple: make into 24 pills, and take 
2 every night until the motions be- 
come soft and sufficiently frequent, 
then 1 every other night. A stimu- 
lant will also be required, and Confec- 
tion of Black Pepper is perhaps the 
best ; or Ward's Paste, which is com- 
posed of Sulphur, Copaiba, Balsam, 
and Spices; about a teaspoonful of the 
former, or from 10 to 15 grains of the 
latter, may be taken night and morn- 
ing. Should the bowels not be moved 
Bufficiently by these means, take Con- 
fection of Senna, commonly called 
Lenative Electuary, 3 ounces ; Sulphur, 
1 ounce ; Jalap and Cream of Tartar, 



of each 2 drams, and Ginger, 1 dram, 
with Syrup enough to make it up into 
a soft Electuary. Dose, a teaspoonful 
twice a day, or only every night, if too 
active. 

The local treatment consists in in- 
jecting 2 or 3 ounces of cold water 
into the bowel just before the passing 
of a motion ; this partly empties, and 
contracts the distended veins, and fa- 
cilitates the passage of the fceces. Care 
should also be taken to press back 
within the sphincter ani, or muscular 
ring which guards the entrance of the 
bowel from the anus, every Pile which 
protrudes, as if suffered to remain out- 
side, it will, by the pressure of the 
above muscle, become strangulated 
and inflamed. When the Piles are in 
this latter condition, they should be 
fomented with hot water, by means of 
a sponge, every four hours or so, and 
the recumbent position should be main- 
tained as much as possible ; leeches^ 
also, may be applied to them, with a 
linseed poultice to encourage the bleed- 
ing. If there is inflammation of Piles 
within the sphincter ani, make an in- 
jection thus: — Dissolve in Bounces 
of boiling water. Acetate of Lead and 
Opium, of each \ a dram, and of this 
lotion, when cool, throw up into the 
bowel with a small syringe just J an 
ounce, by measure, after a motion, but 
not more than twice in twenty-four 
hours; and only in cases where the 
bleeding is profuse, should this power- 
ful application be used. For internal 
Piles, also, leeches may be applied with 
advantage ; they can be applied exter- 
nally, and followed by warm fomenta- 
tions, or a hip-bath. When Piles first 
show themselves, before there is much 
inflammation, or after this has sub- 
sided, an astringent ointment should 
be applied with the finger, as far as it 
can be thrust, night and morning. The 
Compound Gall Ointment is best for 
this purpose, or one prepared thus : 
Gallic Acid, 1 dram ; Powdered Opium» 
\ dram ; Goulard's Extract (a saturated 
solution of the Subacetate of* Lead), 
10 drops; Lard, 1 ounce. 

DIARRHCEA. — Looseness of the 



DISEASES OF BOWELS. 



71 



bowels. This is a very common dis- 
order, arising from a variety of causes, 
foremost among which may be men- 
tioned suppressed perspiration, a sud- 
den chill or cold applied to the body, 
acid fruits, or any indigestible food, 
oily or putrid substances, deficiency 
of bile, increased secretion of mucus, 
worms, strong purgative medicines, 
gout or rheumatism turned inwards, 
etc. 

The symptoms are frequent and co- 
pious discharges of feculent matter, 
accompanied usually with griping and 
flatulency; there is weight and un- 
easiness in the lower belly, which is 
relieved for a time on the discharge 
taking place ; there is nausea, often 
vomiting; a pale countenance, some- 
times sallow ; a bitter taste in the 
mouth, with thirst and dryness of the 
throat ; the tongue is furred and yel- 
low, indicating bile in the alimentary 
canal ; the skin is dry and harsh, and 
if the disease is not checked, great 
emaciation ensues. 

The treatment must depend in some 
degree on the cause. The removal of 
the exciting matter, by means of an 
emetic, or aperient medicines, will, 
however, be a safe proceeding at first. 
It the Diarrhoea be caused by obstruct- 
ed perspiration or exposure to cold, 
nauseating doses of Antimonial, or 
Ipecacuanha Wine, may be given 
every three or four hours, the feet put 
into a warm bath, and the patient be 
well covered up in bed. When the 
case is obstinate, resort may be had to 
the vapor bath, making a free use of 
diluents and demulcents. Where there 
is acidity of the stomach, denoted by 
griping pains and flatulency, take 
Chalk Mixture, with Aromatic Con- 
fection, and other anti-acid absorbents 
or alkalies, such as Carbonate of Pot- 
ash, with Spirits of Ammonia, and 
Tincture of Opium, or some other 
anodyne ; if from putrid or otherwise 
unwholesome food, the proper course, 
after the removal of the offending 
matter, is to give absorbents, in com- 
bination with Opium, or if these fail, 
acid and an anodyne. The following is 



an eflBcacious formula: Diluted Sul- 
phuric Acid, 2 drams; Tincture of 
Opium, ^ a dram ; water, 6 ounces : 
take a tablespoonful every two hours. 
When the looseness proceeds from 
acrid or poisonous substances, warm 
diluent drinks should be freely ad- 
ministered, to keep up vomiting, pre- 
viously excited by an emetic ; for this 
purpose thin fat broth answers well ; a 
purge of Castor Oil should also be 
given, and after its operation, small 
doses of Morphine, or some other 
preparation of Opium. 

The following prescription was used 
by the troops during the Mexican war 
with great success : 

Laudanum ounces 2 

Spirits of Camphor " 2 

Essence of Peppermint " 2 

HofiFman's Anodyne " 2 

Tincture of Cayenne Pepper drams 2 

Tincture of Ginger ounces 1 

Mix all together. Dose : a teaspoonful 
in a little water, or a half teaspoonful 
repeated in an hour afterward in a 
tablespoonful of brandy. This prepa- 
ration will check Diarrhoea in ten 
minutes, and abate other premonitory 
symptoms of cholera immediately. In 
cases of cholera, it has been used with 
great success to restore reaction by 
outward application. 

When repelled, gout or rheumatism 
is the cause, warm fomentations, cata- 
plasms, blisters to the extremities, and 
stimulant purges, such as Tincture of 
Rhubarb, to be followed by absorbents 
with anodynes. If worms are the ex- 
citing cause, their removal must be 
first attempted, but drastic purgatives, 
often given for the purpose, are dan- 
gerous ; in this case. Turpentine and 
Castor Oil, 1 dram of the first and 6 
of the last, may be recommended. The 
Diarrhoea which often occurs in child- 
hood during teething, should not be 
suddenly checked, nor at all, unless it 
prevails to a hurtful extent ; if neces 
sary to stop it, give first a dose of Mer- 
cury and Chalk, from 2 to 4 or 6 grains, 
according to age, and then Powder of 
Prepared Chalk, Cinnamon, and Rhu- 
barb, about 2 grains of each every font 



72 



YOU ask! — I'll tell. 



hours. Diarrhoea soinetinies attacks 
pregnant women, and, in this case, its 
progress ought to he arrested as quick- 
ly as possible. In all cases of loose- 
ness of the bowels it is best to avoid 
hot thin drinks, unless given for a spe- 
cific purpose ; the food, too, should be 
simple and easy of digestion ; Milk, 
with Cinnamon boiled in it, thickened 
with Rice or Arrowroot, is good ; vege- 
tables, salt meat, suet puddings and 
pies are not ; if there is much exhaus- 
tion, a little cool brandy and water 
may be now and then taken. When 
Diarrhoea is stopped, astringent tonics, 
with aromatics, should be given to re- 
store the tone of the stomach. 

This disease may be distinguished 
from Dysentery by being unattended 
by either inflammation, fever, conta- 
gion, or that constant inclination to 
go to stool without a discharge which 
is common in the latter disease, in 
which the matter voided is sanguine- 
ous and putrid, while that in Diarrhoea 
is simply feculent and alimentary. 

DYSENTERY. — Inflammation of 
the mucous membrane of the large in- 
testines, causing frequent evacuations 
of a peculiar ftetid matter, consist- 
ing of a large proportion of mucus, 
generally more or less mixed with 
blood. Flux, or Bloody Flux, accord- 
ing as the discharges are free from, or 
deeply tinged with, the sanguineous 
fluid, are common names for this dis- 
ease, which some French writers term 
Colite. 

The causes of the inflammatory ac- 
tion may be a specific contagion ; 
great moisture in the atmosphere suc- 
ceeded by sudden heat ; putrid or 
otherwise unwholesome food ; noxious 
vapors and exhalations ; ulceration of 
the colon, resulting in spasmodic con- 
striction. 

The usual symptoms are cold shiver- 
ings and other febrile signs. There 
may be at the outset unusual costive- 
ness, with flatulency, severe griping, 
and frequent inclination to go to stool : 
then comes loss of appetite, nausea, 
and vomiting, an increase of the fe- 
brile heat, copious evacuations as 



above described, which reduce the 
strength, and cause great emacia- 
tion. 

The proper treatment will be first 
with regard to the accompanying 
fever; if it be of the inflammatory 
kind, and the patient can bear it, there 
must be blood-letting, antiphlogistic 
medicines, and low diet; but very 
commonly the fever assumes a putrid 
character, in which case it must be 
treated as Typhiis. If it becomes inter- 
mittent, tonics must be resorted to, as 
prescribed under that head. With 
more immediate reference to the dis- 
ease itself, the seat of which is the in- 
testines, an emetic consisting of 20 
grains of Ipecacuanha Powder and 1 
grain of Tartarized Antimony, followed 
by copious drinks of warm water, 
should be given as soon as the vomit- 
ing ceases, a powder, composed of 
1 scruple of Powdered Rhubarb and 2 
grains of Calomel, or a full dose of 
Castor Oil, or some refrigerant ca- 
tharic, sucli as Epsom, or Glauber's 
Salts. Ipecacuanha alone, in doses 
not sufficiently large to produce vom- 
iting, say 5 grains, frequently given, 
often acts well as a cathartic in Dysen- 
tery. After this administer emollient 
glysters about three times a day, with 
Laudanum about a dram in every 
third one, or glysters of Mutton-broth 
and Arrowroot. For drinks, which 
should be cold, or nearly so, give solu- 
tions of Gum Arabic, or Milk, decoc- 
tions of Linseed, Salop, or Barley, or 
thin Arrowroot. If these do not stop 
the Flux in twenty-four hours or so 
try the following mixture: — Tincture 
of Opium and Nitrate of Potash, of 
each 1 dram ; Antimonial Wine 2 
drams ; Mint Water, to make G ounces : 
take a tablespoon ful every two or'three 
hours. When the disease has yet more 
advanced, and the frequency of tiic» 
stools appears to proceed chiefly from 
a weakened and relaxed state of the 
bowels, tonics and astringents should 
be given — Arnica Bark, Calumba, Cas- 
carilla. Catechu, Logwood, Kino, Quas- 
sia, are among the best ; Lime Water 
Is also good, and an acidulous mix- 



DISEASES OF BOWELS. 



73 



ture composed thus : — Diluted Nitrous 
Acid 2 drams, Laudanum ^ dram, 
Water 6 ounces ; take a sixth part 
every four hours. This also will be 
found efficient — Tincture of Catechu, 
Confection of Opium, and Aromatic 
Confection, of each 2 drams. Cinna- 
mon Water, 6 ounces ; take two table- 
spoonfuls every four hours. Where there 
is much debility, Brandy and Water 
may be given ; but neither this nor 
Laudanum will do for the febrile stages. 

Persons residing in warm climates 
are especially subject to Dysentery. 

Those who are recovering from its 
attacks should be careful to avoid ex- 
posure to cold or damp, or any sudden 
atmospheric changes ; to be regular in 
their mode of living, and to go warmly 
clothed, as they are very liable to a re- 
currence of the attack. 

Cholera Morbus is often preceded 
by heartburn, a sour taste in the 
mouth, and flatulency ; there is vomit- 
ing and purging of a decidedly bilious 
character; griping and distension of 
the stomacti, cramps, and ultimately 
convulsions; clammy sweats, difficulty 
in breathing, an anxious expression 
efface, constant hiccough, and if relief 
is not quickly obtained, death. 

Treatment. — 3 drams of Spirits of 
Camphor ; 3 drams of Laudanum ; 3 
drams of Oil of Turpentine ; 30 drops 
of Oil of Peppermint. Mix, and take 
a teaspoonful in a glass of weak Brandy 
and Water for diarrhoea, and a table- 
spoonful in weak Brandy and Water 
for cholera. 

Lose no time in sending for medical 
attendance when attacked, and inform 
the doctor of what has been taken. 

Medical men assert, and experience 
shows, that this is an excellent remedy 
and well worth being kept on hand by 
every family. 

Asiatic or Malignant Cholera, 
with which we first became acquainted 
in this country in the autumn of 1831, 
is a more severe form of the disease 
than either of the above; it very com- 
monly comes on without any pre- 
monitory warning whatever, and the 
patient is a corpse in a few hours. 



Cold perspiration, with prostration of 
strength, vomiting, and purging, but 
not of bile in this case, but a thin, 
colorless, odorless fluid, like rice- 
water ; then come the dreadful cramps, 
seizing on the calves of the legs, the 
thighs, the fingers, the toes, and all 
muscular parts; the body is bent, 
the limbs twisted, the face becomes 
cadaverous and corpse-like, with sharp 
and contracted features, sunken eyes, 
with a dark circle round them, blue 
lips, and a tongue of leaden hue ; the 
look wild and pitiful, the breathing 
hurried and difficult, the voice low and 
husky, the form seems to shrink and 
dwindle visibly, the pulse, at first 
small and weak, becomes rapidly more 
so, until its feeble beatings can scarcely, 
if at all, be detected ; a smell, like that 
of a charnel-house,, is exhaled from 
the body, which loses its natural 
warmth, as more withered and ghastly 
becomes the face; and the arms and 
hands, wrinkled like those of a washer- 
woman, with livid finger-nails, fall 
helplessly at the side, and the weak, 
wailing voice sinks to a whisper in its 
frequent calls for drink, to quench the 
intolerable thirst. To ;he last, there 
appears to be a wandering kind of 
consciousness, but no power to ex 
press a wish or will ; there is utter 
indifference in that forlorn look which 
the sufferer occasionally casts around, 
and no ray of pleasant recognition 
lights up the eye when it rests upon 
familiar faces. Then comes the perfect 
insensibility of collapse, and soon the 
feeble flickering light of life is quench- 
ed; unless, as is sometimes the case, 
re-action sets in ; then the pulse be- 
gins to flutter, like a bird escaping 
from the snare, the skin to get warm 
again, the dim eyes to brighten, the 
face to assume a more natural hue, 
the flaccid muscles to become more 
tense, the pulse is again perceptible, 
and it may be seen at a glance that 
the crisis is past, and the vital energies 
of the patient have rallied, and are 
likely to carry him through this immi- 
nent danger. 

With regard to the treatment of 



74 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Cholera, there is much disagreement 
among medical men, and so rapid is the 
progress of the disease, that there really 
is little time for the operation of reme- 
dies. At times, when it is likely to be 
prevalent, particular attention should 
be paid to the state of the bowels, and 
the slightest tendency to looseness 
should at once be checked. Chalk 
Mixture, with a little Aromatic Con- 
fection added, taken after each loose 
motion ; add 5 or 10 drops of Lauda- 
num to each dose, and take milk and 
farinaceous diet; avoid unripe fruits, 
hard puddings, pastry, and any indi- 
gestible food ; live temperately, but 
not too abstemiously, so as to weaken 
the system ; be careful as to the purity 
of the water drunk, and to avoid 
chills, or whatever tends to lower the 
standard of health. If the bowels are 
confined, do not take saline aperients, 
but such as are of a warm, stimulating 
character, such as Rhubarb, combined 
with Magnesia, mixed in Cinnamon or 
Peppermint Water. If the more se- 
vere symptoms above described come 
on, obtain medical help immediately, 
if possible ; should it not be so, use 
every eflfort to keep up the temperature 
of the body by hot applications, apply 
friction to the muscular parts most af- 
fected with cramps; hot Bran Bags, 
with Turpentine sprinkled over them, 
are good, Mustard Poultices and strong 
Liniments. Let the patient gratify his 
intense thirst with copious draughts 
of cold water, in every quart of which 
has been dissolved 1 dram of Common 
Salt, the same of Chlorate of Soda, 
and 20 grains of Chlorate of Potash ; 
administer every quarter of an hour, 
by placing it upon the tongue, a pow- 
der containing 1 grain of Calomel and 
1 grain of Opium ; and about every 
half hour a draught, with 20 drops of 
Sulphuric Ether, or 5 drops of Chloro- 
form, with 10 drops of Laudanum, or 
Camphor Mixture. 

Some physicians recommend warm 
stimulating drinks, such as Brandy 
and Water, with catai)lasms of Opium 
and Camphor, blisters to the stomach, 
and antispasmodic clysters. 



Nothing can show more clearly how 
little is really understood of the real 
nature of this terrible disease, than the 
diverse opinions entertained with re- 
gard to the proper remedial measures : 
it is indeed the pestilence that walketh 
in darkness, and whether contagious, 
as some contend, or infectious, as 
others, or both, as seems likely, it 
warns us to be prepared for the sum- 
mons that may come at any moment. 

WORMS. — There are several kinds 
of these troublesome parasites which 
infest the intestinal canals of man. 
Those most generally found there are 
the Ascarides, small Thread Worms, 
varying from the eighth of an inch to 
one and a half inches in length ; they 
are mostly in the rectum, or last gut. 
The Lumbrici are long round Worms, 
from two or three to ten or more inches 
in length ; they are of a yellowish-white 
or brownish-red color, and are usually 
found in the small intestines. The 
TcRiiia, or Tape-worm, occupies mostly 
the upper part of the intestinal tube, 
but is occasionally found in every part 
of it. There are two sorts of Taenia: 
one, the commonest, frequently grows 
to an enormous length (as much as 
thirty or forty feet), and generally 
comes away entire; the other passes 
off in one or more joints, which re- 
semble pumpkin seeds. 

As may be expected, from the 
highly organized and sensitive parts 
which they occupy. Worms cause 
great constitutional derangement, re- 
sulting in all kinds of bad symptoms, 
more especially affecting the stomach 
and head ; hence we have in these 
cases variable appetite, sometimes de- 
ficient, at others absolutely voracious ; 
pains in the stomach, fcetid breath, 
nausea, headache, vertigo and giddi- 
ness, irritation about the nose and 
anus ; frequently cough and disturbe<l 
rest, and a disordered state of the bow- 
els. In children, we have a hard and 
tumid belly, with slimy stools, and 
sometimes convulsive fits. Occasion- 
ally in adults, as well as children. 
Worms give rise to epileptic fits, and 
cause great emaciation. 



KIDNEY DISEASES, 



75 



An excessive use of fruit and vege- 
tables, or sugar, or any other highly 
nutritive substance, favors the genera- 
tion of Worms, which most frequently 
infest those of a relaxed habit, with 
weak digestive organs ; the greater in- 
dulgence in sweets, and too common 
abstinence from salt, appears to be the 
main reason why children are most 
troubled with them. 

Worms are more common in some 
countries and districts than others, 
and it has been noticed that they are 
particularly so in parts where much 
milk and cheese are taken. It has 
been asserted that a habit of eating 
meat in a partially raw state will be 
pretty sure to produce them. 

Treatment. — This must be of a tonic 
and strengthening character; such 
medicines as tend to invigorate the 
system are the best, and especially 
those which act upon the stomach and 
intestines ; Salt, preparations of Iron, 
Sulphur, and Camphor, are those which 
may be principally depended on, in 
conjunction with an avoidance of 
vegetable and saccharine food. About 
1 ounce of common Salt dissolved in 
nearly ^ a pint of water, and taken 
in the morning fasting, twice a week 
for somek little time, will generally 
bring away any kind of Worms, if the 
plan is followed out, especially if a 
pill containing 1 grain of Calomel and 
3 of Extract of Colycinth, be taken at 
bedtime the previous night. At the 
same time should be taken a strength- 
ening mixture, composed of Sulphate 
of Iron, 12 grains ; Infusion of Quas- 
sia, 12 ounces ; Tincture of Ginger, 2 
drams. Dose, two tablespoonftils twice 
a day. Or else, Sulphate of Iron and 
Quinine, each 12 grains; dilute Sul- 
phuric Acid, 24 minims ; Cinnamon 
Water, 12 ounces: dose as above. 

For Tape-worm, Castor Oil and 
Spirits of Turpentine is often given ; 
about \ an ounce of the latter, and 2 
drams of the former, is the dose. It 
should be taken fasting, and may be 
repeated two or three times, at inter- 
vals of two or three days or so. Pome- 
granate Bark is a very old and useful 



remedy for this kind of worm: the 
mode of administration is to boil 2 
ounces of the bruised bark in 1^ pints 
of water down to a pint, the whole 
of which is to be taken in the course 
of the morning, fasting, in four 
draughts, with intervals of half an 
hour between each. Should this not 
be effectual the first day, it may be 
repeated two, three, or even four 
times. Another remedy is the Oil of 
Male Fern. Eue, Tansy, Tin Filings, 
Tobacco, and a variety of other sub- 
stances, have likewise been recom- 
mended, but those mentioned appear 
to be the most efficacious. For the 
species called Lumbrici, the bursting 
pods of the Cowhage are no doubt use- 
ful ; and for the small white Thread 
Worm, so frequently infesting the last 
gut of children, about J pint of 
Limewater should be injected once a 
day, and an active aperient pill, or 
powder, or a dose of Castor Oil, be 
given once a week. Should this not 
effect the desired object, inject a solu- 
tion of Salt in Water, or a strong de- 
coction of worm seed. 

Although Salt is recommended as a 
remedy for Worms, yet salt meat is 
not good for persons so troubled : 
plenty of it should be eaten with fresh 
animal food, and the few vegetables 
that may be taken ; but it is better to 
avoid these altogether for a time, as 
well as fruit, and live chiefly upon 
bread and farinaceous puddings. 

Diseases of the Kidney, or renal 
diseases, as they are sometimes called, 
are generally difficult of treatment ; the 
most common are those which result in 
the formation of calculi, or stone, which 
is sometimes retained in the pelvis, 
where, by constant deposition, it 
increases so as to completely fill that, 
and the calices which open into it, 
causing a stoppage in the flow of the 
secretion, and a most dangerous state 
of constitutional derangement. Gen- 
erally, however, the stone passes 
through the ureter into the bladder, 
producing in its passage violent spas- 
modic pains in the loins, with nausea, 
and generally haemorrhage, etc. With 



76 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



this we commonly get inflammation 
of the Kidneys, from which abscesses 
and other morbid alterations are likely 
to result. From chronic inflammation 
appears generally to arise that altera- 
tion in the structure of the kidneys 
known as Bright's Disease, the chief 
characteristics of which are the depo- 
sition of a pa4e yellowish substance 
in the interstices of the organs, 
leading to a granular or tuberculated 
form of the surface, and a decreased 
vascularity of the whole organ, whose 
diseased condition is indicated by a 
dull, heavy pain in the loins, a hard 
pulse, and a secretion of so large a 
quantity of albumen in the urine, that 
it coagulates on being heated, or with 
the addition of nitric acid. This con- 
dition of the Kidneys is sometimes 
the result of hard drinking; it some- 
times follows scarlet fever, and usually 
produces dropsy, in which case we have 
a bloated expression of countenance. 
Suppression of urine may be the ulti- 
mate result of obstruction of calculus 
in the ureter, or it may occur as an 
idiopathic disease ; in either case it is 
a condition of great danger. In com- 
mon with other organs, the Kidneys 
are also subject to various morbid 
growths and depositions, such as can- 
cer, fungus, hsematodes, melanosis, 
tubercle, etc. ; but the diagnosis of all 
chronic affections of these organs is 
very difficult, owing to the similarity 
in their symptoms: the dull, heavy 
pain in the loins, dropsy, and some- 
times hfematuria, being common to 
all. We can, therefore, scarcely venture 
to indicate any particular line of treat- 
ment. A medical man should be con- 
sulted as soon as possible when there 
is reason to suspect all is not right 
with this important organ, to which, 
we may just observe, that injury often 
results from long-continued and vio- 
lent exercise on horseback ; also from 
collections of hardened stools in the 
colon, as well as from retrocedent 
gout, a blow, or violent exercise of any 
kind. 

For Inflammation of the Kidneys, 
an infusion made from Buchu Leaves, 



Queen of the Meadow, Foxglove, or 
other diuretics, may be taken. 

The bowels should be kept open by 
some gentle medicine, such as Senna 
Tea or Magnesia. 

Bright's Disease. — This is a par- 
ticular disease of the kidneys — the 
distinguishing mark of which is the 
presence of the serum of the blood in 
the urine (which coagulates on the 
application of heat; there may be 
only sufficient to cloud the fluid, or 
enough to form nearly a solid mass). 
The causes of this disease, which was 
first described by Dr. Bright (hence its 
name), are various. It may be severe 
cold, repressed perspiration, or immod- 
erate use of ardent spirits ; and it not 
uncommonly follows Scarlet Fever. It 
is usually accompanied by febrile 
symptoms, and dropsical swellings of 
the face and extremities, and eventu- 
ally of the body also. The best treat' 
ment is cupping in the loins, hot 
baths, and purging with Calomel and 
Jalap. A mixture as under should 
also be given : Sweet Spirits of Nitre, 
2 drams ; Liquor of Acetate of Am- 
monia, 1 ounce ; Camphor Mixture, 7 
ounces : take two tablespoonfuls three 
times a day. Low diet, and an avoid- 
ance of alcoholic stimulants. 

Inflammation of the Bladder may 
be either acute or chronic ; in the for- 
mer case it is likely to be the result of 
a catarrh, which, after affecting the 
mucous membrane of the throat, nose, 
and chest, acts upon that of the urinary 
organs. If not from this, it may pro- 
ceed from some accidental or local 
cause. But however this may be, the 
symptoms are much the same. There 
is severe pain and a sense of tightness 
in the lower part of the abdomen, 
with a constant desire to pass urine, 
which comes out cloudy or milky, and 
deposits pus or mucus at the botto-Q 
of the vessel ; there is often, too, a 
feeling of sickness, and generally more 
or less fever. 

The treatment in this case will be to 
give at once about 5 grains of Calomel, 
following it up with a Rhubarb 
draught, or some other mild aperient ; 



KIDNEY DISEASES. 



77 



the application of leeches to the lower 
part of the abdomen, with the use of a 
warm hip-bath, to encourage the bleed- 
ing, the bath to be continued daily, or 
twice a day, if necessary ; the use of 
diluents, such as Barley Water, or 
Linseed Tea, and abstinence from all 
stimulating drinks whatever. These 
means, with a rigidly abstemious diet, 
and rest in a recumbent position, will 
generally reduce the inflammation in 
the course of a few days. Should they 
not, and should the patient be of a full 
habit of body, bleeding from the arm 
may be resorted to, and such other 
measures of depletion as may be neces- 
sary. The following is a good formula 
for a mixture : Nitrate of Potash and 
Tincture of Henbane, of each 2 drams; 
Liquor of Acetate of Ammonia and 
Mucilage of Acacia, of each 1 ounce ; 
Camphor Mixture, 10 ounces : take 2 
tablespoonfuls every four hours. In- 
jection of the bladder with warm 
water, or some emollient fluid, such as 
Infusion of Linseed, is sometimes re- 
sorted to with good effect. The sup- 
pression of urine, and consequent dis- 
tension of the bladder, will sometimes 
cause inflammation of that organ ; or it 
may proceed from a calculus of con- 
siderable magnitude lodged within it. 
If the inflammation be chronic, 
leeches are seldom required ; in other 
respects the treatment must be much 
the same as that above recommended. 
When this treatment does not afford 
relief, and the urine retains its acid 
quality, which may be known by its 
turning litmus paper red, 2^ grains of 
Calomel, with 3 grains of Opium, 
should be taken three times a day ; if 
the urine is alkaline, and deposits mu- 
cus of a brownish color, the patient 
should take with each dose of the above 
mixtuie 15 minims of Wine of Colchi- 
cum ; this is Sir R. Brodie's plan of 
treatment. Great care should be taken, 
when the patient is recovering, as to 
the diet and mode of living ; a very 
slight excess in eating or drinking, or 
violent exertion, may bring on a re- 
lapse. It is well to take, for some 
little time, one of the following pills 



twice a week : — Blue Pill, 12 grains ; 
Ipecacuanha Powder, 3 grains ; Ace- 
tous Extract of Colchicum, 6 grains : 
mix and make into 6 pills. An aperi- 
ent draught of Compound Infusion of 
Senna, or of Rhubarb aud Magnesia, 
should also be taken occasionally. If 
there is much debility, with griping and 
flatulency, a tablespoonful of Brandy 
in a glass of Soda Water will be a 
good accompaniment to the daily 
dinner. 

Irritation of the Bladder. — It 
sometimes occurs during the latter 
stages of gonorrhoea that the patient is 
annoyed by a frequent desire to void 
his urine ; gradually this desire be- 
comes more urgent and continuous, re- 
turning as often as every ten or fifteen 
minutes ; there is great pain during 
the passing of the water, and heat, ex- 
tending up to the neck of the bladder ; 
if this state of things continues the 
urine will be tinged with blood, and 
will deposit bloody mucus ; this indi- 
cates ulceration of the organ, arising 
from the irritated state of the mucous 
membrane. The proper treatment in 
this case will be, to keep the bladder 
in a state of rest by the insertion of a 
short flexible catheter, retained in its 
place by a bandage carried between 
the thighs, through which the urine 
may escape as it collects. To allay 
the pain and irritation, Opium, in 1 
or 2 grain doses, should be adminis- 
tered, and a suppository, composed of 
5 or 6 grains of the same, introduced 
into the rectum ; the bowels must be 
kept open by Castor Oil ; and a blister 
applied to the pubes to produce 
counter-irritation, is likely to afford 
relief. A recumbent position should 
be maintained, warm hip-baths used, 
and an abstemious diet preserved,, 
avoiding malt liquor and all kinds of 
stimulants. There is a plain distinc- 
tion between this form of urinary dis- 
ease aud stone, or calculus, in the cir- 
cumstance that, whereas with them the 
pain is most excruciating when the 
bladder is empty, it is most so with 
this when it is full. An irritable stat© 
of the bladder may be brought on by 



78 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



other causes than that above indi- 
cated — such as a too long retention of 
urine, excessive indulgence in venery, 
or spiritous liquors, etc. — but in all 
cases the treatment should be much the 
same, varied, of course, according to 
the constitution of the patient, and the 
exigencies of the particular case. 

Paralysis of the Bladder may be 
caused by fever ; it sometimes oc- 
curs in persons of advanced age, as 
well as in those affected with a paraly- 
tic affection ; the organ loses its volun- 
tary power to expel the urine, which 
must be drawn off by means of a cathe- 
ter ; general and uterine stimulants 
must be administered, especially blis- 
ters to the loins, and a pill, composed 
of 5 grains of Chio Turpentine, and a 
} of a grain of Powdered Cantharides, 
given twice a day, is a mode of treat- 
ment which has been found effective. 
It has been observed that the urine, 
which on the introduction of the cathe- 
ter to the patient in a horizontal posi- 
tion would not flow, has done so when 
he has been placed erect; a circum- 
stance attributed to the pressure of the 
viscera upon the bladder. 

DIABETES is characterized by a 
large discharge of urine, containing 
eventually, if not at first, a large pro- 
portion of saccharine and other matter. 
There is gradual emaciation, voracious 
appetite, great thirst, weakness, and 
disinclination to motion ; the alimen- 
tary process is improperly performed, 
and thus the food taken does not 
yield its proper amount of nourish- 
ment, and constitutional derangement 
is the consequence. 

Treatment. — The diet should be en- 
tirely animal food — all vegetable sub- 
stances to be avoided — the bowels to 
be kept quietly open with pills of 
Aloes and Soap, emetics and diapho- 
retics occasionally administered, per- 
haps the compound Ipecacuanha 
Powder, 10 grains at bedtime, is the 
best ; alkaline drinks, such as Soda 
Water, may be given with advantage, 
and blisters and issues applied to the 
regions of the kidneys, covering the 
skin with flannel, anointing it with 



Camphorated Oil, using the warm bath 
and the flesh - brush, are also good, 
as are Chalybeate and Sulphurated 
Waters. Tonics, astringents, and 
stimulants will be of service, especially 
preparations of Iron with Tincture of 
Cantharides ; if in the summer, sea- 
bathing, and anything which may 
serve to invigorate the system. Sucn 
is an outline of general treatment; 
of course, constitutional peculiarities 
require special and appropriate reme- 
dial measures, and of these only the 
professional adviser can judge. 

Incontinence of Urine. — This is 
very common among children, and 
may be ascribed,generally, to weakness; 
although, in some cases, it is owing to 
want of care in the nurse or mother. 
It sometimes occurs in grown persons, 
especially in males, after an operation 
for stricture, or some disease of the 
urinary organs ; and in females after 
childbirth ; it may, then, be attributed 
to some mechanical defect which al- 
lows the urine to pass off aa fast as it 
is secreted. 

In children, the change occurring at 
puberty generally cures this complaint. 
Before this age, children should be 
used to make water just before going 
to bed, and give them but little drink. 
It is also a good plan to take the child 
out of bed late at night to make water: 
this, with some decided scolding if 
they should wet the bed, will often 
break up the habit, for it is generally 
only a habit. In adults, it arises from 
debility, or disease of the bladder. 

The sponge bath, with friction after, 
should be used daily, an infusion of 
the Trailing Arbutus should be drank 
occasionally. Tincture of Buchu, or 
Tincture of Cantharides, in small doses, 
will be useful. 

GRAVEL. — Crystalline sediments 
deposited in the bladder from the 
urine; when amorphous, that is, 
shapeless, irregular, and reducible to 
powder, they may be either red or 
pink, consisting chiefly of Lithate of 
Ammonia; or white, into the composi- 
tion of which the Phosphates largely 
enter. When crystallized, they may 



FEMALE DISEASES. 



79 



be also red, or white, the former con- 
sisting of crystals of Uric or Lithic 
Acid, and the latter if Triple Phos- 
phate of Ammonia and Magnesia. 
Although the deposits in Gravel vary 
considerably in their form and color, 
and to some extent in their character 
also, yet the nature of the disease is 
essentially the same. If the deposited 
particles remain stationary in the 
bladder for a length of time, others 
gather around them until they form a 
hard solid mass, which has to be 
broken down or crushed before it can 
be removed. 

The symptoms of an attack of Gravel 
are constipated bowels, restlessness, 
and dry skin, with pains in the loins, 
commonly on one side, where it 
descends, following the course of the 
urethra; the thigh and leg feel numbed; 
and sometimes in the male the testicles 
are drawn up. There is frequently 
sickness, and an urgent desire to make 
water, which is passed with difficulty, 
and is high-colored and turbid, de- 
positing a sandy powder, which is 
sometimes red, at others white, or a 
mixture or alternation of the two 
colors, with occasionally a bloody 
tinge. Derangement of the digestive 
organs is common in such a case ; 
there will probably be constipated 
bowels, with acid eructations with great 
restlessness, and a sense of weight at 
the pit of the stomach. 

Treatment. — 1 quart of hard wood 
ashes, | gill of soot (from the chim- 
ney), mixed with 6 pints of water, stir 
it occasionally for a day or two, then 
let it settle, and filter it. Take a tea- 
spoonful three times a day, or half 
a teaspoonful of fluid Magnesia, or 20- 
drop doses of Liquor Potassa. 

Tonics should be taken to improve 
the tone of the stomach — ^ dram Fluid 
Extract of Gentian, or the same quan- 
tity of Tincture of Peruvian Bark, 3 
times a day. Take no acids either in 
food or drink ; plain nourishing diet 
in moderate quantities. Open-air ex- 
ercise, and a sponge bath, followed by 
friction, are among the best remedies. 
MENSTRUATION. - The func- 



tions of the uterus, by which the men- 
strual, catamenial, or monthly dis- 
charges take place. These generally 
commence between the fourteenth and 
sixteenth years of age, although we 
have known them to begin as early as 
eleven or twelve. A considerable period 
may elapse between the appearance of 
the first and second menstrual dis- 
charge ; but, when thej' are projierly 
established, their recurrence, at regu- 
lar periods, may be calculated on with 
great certainty, unless some functional 
or other derangement of the system 
interferes with them. Ordinarily a 
lunar month of twenty-eight days is 
the intervening period, but with some 
females the discharge occurs every 
third week. The fluid discharged re- 
sembles blood in color, but it does not 
coagulate ; the quantity is from three to 
five ounces, and the process occupies 
from three to five days. The quantity, 
however, and duration of the emission, 
varies greatly in different females, and 
unless the former is either very scanty or 
excessive, these do not appear important 
particulars ; but the regular recurrence 
of the issue is important to health. 
This should be borne in mind, and due 
care taken not to suppress the dis- 
charge by exposure to cold or wet, or 
by violent exertion of any kind about 
the time when it may be expected. It 
is desirable that young females should 
be properly informed by their mothers, 
or those under whose care they are 
placed, of what may be expected at a 
certain age, or they may be alarmed 
at the first appearance of the Menses, 
taking it to be some indication of a 
dangerous disease or injury, and, per- 
haps, by mental agitation, or a resort 
to strong medicines, do mischief to 
themselves. If the Menses do not ap- 
pear at the usual age, or for some years 
after, no alarm need be felt, provided 
there is no constitutional derange- 
ments which can be attributed to this 
cause. Some women never menstru- 
ate, although they may be married 
and have a family. Most commonly 
with suppressed Menstruation, which 
we understand the term Amenorrhoea 



80 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



to signify, there is, if not actual dis- 
ease of the parts more immediately 
involved in the process, a weakly and 
unhealthy state of the system. When 
there is such suppression, discharges 
of blood will sometimes occur from the 
nose, mouth, and gums, or from the 
stomach and bowels : nearly always 
there will be unnatural heats and 
flushings, headache, tendency to faint, 
and hysterical symptoms. At the regu- 
lar periods when the Menses ought to 
appear, there will be great excitability, 
and an aggravation of the above symp- 
toms ; with those of full habit, there 
will be a strong, bounding pulse, with 
acute pain in the head, back, and 
limbs; with the feeble and sickly, ex- 
treme languor, tremblings, shiverings, 
and pale visage. 

In the first case, the treatment will 
be spare diet, free purging with saline 
aperients, cupping in the loins, and 
vigorous exercise between the periods. 
In the second, nutritious diet, with 
Wine or Bitter Ale ; tonic medicines 
— some form of Iron is the best, in 
combination with Quinine ; gentle 
aperients, such as Castor Oil, or Com- 
pound Rhubarb Pill, and the use of 
the hip-bath, the latter especially, for 
a few days before the menstruating 
period ; every other night the bath 
should be made more stimulant by the 
addition of a little Mustard, and, on 
every occasion, active friction with 
dry coarse towels should be used ; a 
lavement, containing 2 drams of Spirit 
of Turpentine, may also be useful ; 
and a leech or two applied to each 
thigh, on the upper part, as near to 
the situation of the uterus as may be. 
All this should be done in a case of 
acute suppression, that is, where the se- 
cretion of the Menses has taken place, 
but derangement of the general health, 
or perhaps some mechanical obstacle, 
prevents its appearance ; if the latter 
is the case, of course, surgical aid is 
necessary. 

Chronic Suppression may result 
from the acute, or from defective nu- 
trition of the organs ; from the early 
termination of menstrual functions, or 



from the weakness occasioned by a 
profuse discharge of " whites " from 
the uterus. In this case there is gen- 
erally pains in the head, sides, and 
back, loss of appetite, giddiness, sal- 
low complexion, with a dark line round 
the eyes, generally torpid bowels, with 
other dyspeptic symptoms. It is some- 
times difficult to distinguish between 
this and the early stage of pregnancy ; 
in both there is a large abdomen, but 
in the latter usually the breasts are 
flat, in the former full and plump, but 
the doubt will not long remain — the 
morning sickness, the increasing size 
of the abdomen, and the other unmis- 
takable signs of pregnancy, if it be 
that, will dissipate it in a mouth or so. 

In a case of chronic suppression, if 
there be no indications of disease 
which call for special treatment, and 
if the age of the patient be such as to 
warrant a reasonable expectation that 
emmenagogue remedies may be of ser- 
vice, they should be resorted to. 

In this case, too, the warm hip-bath 
should be used about the proper period 
of Menstruation, and it would be well 
to give some uterine stimulant, such 
at! Ergot of Rye, of which about 5 
grains, with 2 grains of Aloes, and a 
drop of Essential Oil of Juniper, made 
into 2 pills, or mixed up in a powder, 
would be about the dose to be taken 
each night at bedtime, with a draught 
of Pennyroyal Water; or a mixture 
composed of Spirit of Turpentine, 
made into an emulsion with Yolk of 
Egg, Sugar, and Essence of Juniper, 
about 6 drams of the first and 1 of the 
last, in a 6-ouuce mixture ; 1 ounce to 
be taken three times a day. These 
means of promoting the discharge in 
any case must not be prolonged much 
beyond the menstrual periods, between 
which all possible means must be taken 
to strengthen the system ; good diet, 
plenty of active exercise, the use of the 
shower-bath, or cold or tepid spong- 
ing; Steel Mixture, with Aloes and 
Iodine, in one or other of its forms ; 
these are the proper remedies. 

When the menstrual period comes 
round again, use the means above 



FEMALE DISEASES. 



81 



directed, and continue thus to alternate 
the treatment until success crown the 
efforts, or the case becomes altogether 
hopeless. If the Amenorrhcea proceeds 
from a want of energy in the uterine 
organs to secrete the red discharge, as 
is often the case after frequent mis- 
carriages, child-bearing, or inflamma- 
tion of the womb, as well as after leucor- 
rhcea, or " whites," there will probably 
be the usual signs of Menstruation, 
followed by a white discharge only, 
and accompanied by acute pain at the 
bottom of the back, vertigo, and hys- 
teria. Weakly young women, before 
accession of the Menses, and elderly 
ones, at the time of their cessation, or 
" change of life," as it is commonly 
called, are often so affected. In such 
a case we should prescribe hot baths 
and tepid injections, pills of Sulphate 
of Iron and Aloes, with Balsam of 
Copaiba, 10 or 20 drops in milk, three 
times a day ; or Powdered Cubebs, 
from a scruple to half a dram ; good 
diet, and a recumbent position as much 
as possible during the periods. If the 
patient is of a full habit, apply leeches, 
10 or 12 over the sacrum, to be fol- 
lowed by a blister, with restricted diet, 
and, for a time, avoidance of sexual 
intercourse. 

Sudden Suppression of the Men- 
ses may arise from exposure to cold 
or wet, from extreme mental distress, 
and several other causes ; it is gen- 
erally accompanied by violent head- 
ache, severe pain in the loins and ab- 
domen, difficulty of breathing, and 
shivering. In this case the patient 
must take warm diluent drinks, saline 
aperients, till the bowels are freely 
opened, have hot Bran Poultices ap- 
plied to the lower part of the abdomen, 
immerse the feet and legs in hot water, 
rendered stimulant by the addition of 
Mustard; if the pain is extreme, take 
an opiate draught every four hours, 
and have a lavement, with 1 dram of 
Turpentine, and J a dram of Tincture 
of Opium thrown up ; she must also 
be kept as quiet as possible. 

Painful Menstruation is the rule 
with some females, but the exception 
6 



with most ; it does not seem to be in 
any way connected with the quantity of 
the discharge, and it may attend both 
the secretion and the emission ; or but 
one or other of the processes, and but 
partially, coming on in paroxysms, or 
continually, during the whole pro- 
cess ; the matter discharged is often 
thick and membraneous, and some- 
times has in it clots and streaks of 
blood. The cause of this is not very 
clear. It has been observed to occur 
after strong mental emotions, a cold 
caught during the menstrual period, 
a fright or other shock to the system, 
and would seem to indicate an irrita- 
ble state of the womb. In this case 
we must resort to warm hip-baths and 
friction, fomentation of the parts, 
diluent drinks, saline aperients, opi- 
ates, and a spare diet ; injection of 
warm water high up into the va- 
gina, etc. 

It is necessary at each monthly turn 
to do something in these cases to quiet 
the pain : for this purpose, 20 drops of 
Laudanum, in a wineglass of tepid 
water, thrown into the bowel, will be 
highly serviceable. 

WHITES is a symptom of disease, 
rather than a disease itself. Local 
treatment will be of little avail in 
cases of long standing, unless the 
general health be attended to. To 
keep the bowels gently open, take 
Compound Rhubarb Pill, 5 grains, as 
often as required, and to strengthen 
and cool the system, a mixture like 
the following: — Sulphate of Iron, 12 
grains ; Diluted Sulphuric Acid, 1 
dram ; Sulphate of Magnesia, 4 drams ; 
Peppermint, or Cinnamon Water, 12 
ounces : take two tablespoonfuls twice 
or thrice a day. In obstinate cases, 
there should be an injection into the 
vagina of a solution of Alum and Sul- 
phate of Zinc, 3 drams of the former 
and 1 dram of the latter, to a pint of 
water ; 3 or 4 ounces to be thrown up, 
while the patient lies with the hips 
rather elevated ; this position to be 
retained for some time, with the parts 
covered by a napkin or sponge, so that 
the fluid may be kept in. If there ia 



82 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



itchiug and irritation of the parts, it 
may be allayed by an injection com- 
posed of Carbonate of Soda, 2 drams, 
in a quart of Bran Tea or Poppy De- 
coction. If the simple Alum and 
Zinc injection proves ineffectual, add 
a dram of Powdered Catechu to each 
pint, or use decoction of Oak Bark as 
a vehicle for the above Salts. When 
there is much debility, with sup- 
pres.sed or scanty menstruation, prepa- 
rations of Iron as the above mixture, 
with Compound Steel Pills, or some 
compound of Canada Balsam, 3 grains, 
and J a grain of Quinine, or the latter 
substance J a dram, with dilute Sul- 

Shuric Acid, 1 dram, in 6 ounces of 
rentian or Cascarilla : a tablespoonful 
to be taken twice or thrice a day. 
Should there be profuse menstruation, 
nothing is so likely to be effectual as 
the Iron and Acid Mixture, with or 
without the Sulphate of Magnesia, ac- 
cording to the state of the bowels. 
Mustard poultices to the lower part 
of the back, or stimulant liniments, 
rubbed well in every night, for a time, 
will often prove useful. 

Milk Fever. — An aggravated form 
of the excitement which takes place 
at the onset of lactation ; its first 
symptoms are increased heat of the 
system, preceded by shivering, and 
sometimes accompanied with vertigo 
and slight delirium ; these are followed 
by severe headache, thirst, dry tongue, 
quick pulse, throbbing of the temples, 
and intolerance of light. 

The caiLse may be a cold, or over- 
heating the apartment, too stimulating 
a diet, or any obstruction to the flow 
of milk from the breast. 

The treatment should be spare diet, 
perfect tranquillity, subdued light, cool- 
ing drinks, and saline aperient medi- 
cines ; the head should be kept some- 
what elevated, and bathed with cold 
water or evaporating lotions: if the 
symptoms should become worse in 
spite of this, apply half-a-dozen or 
more Leeches to the head, and put the 
Teet in a warm Mustard bath. Most 
lying-in women have more or less of 
tLia fever, which is no doubt an effort 



of nature to rouse the hitherto dor- 
mant mammary organs lo secrete a 
proper quantity of milk ; if, how- 
ever, it is not checked, the arterial 
action runs too high, and no milk at 
all is secreted. 

Inflammation of the Breasts. — It 
may occur at any period between early 
and advanced womanhood, but most 
commonly it does occur within a week 
or two of childbirth, and is the result 
of some obstruction in the flow of the 
milk, or change in its normal charac- 
ter; such a change will be sure to 
occur if the milk is suffered to remain 
long in the breast ; therefore, should 
the infant be unable to relieve it at 
all, or insufficiently, artificial means 
must be taken to do so. 

When the premonitory symptoms 
of mammary abscess (broken breasts) 
are observed, recourse should at once 
be had to remedial measures. Let the 
breast be well yet gently rubbed with 
a soft hand, into the palm of which is 
poured fresh Oli^e or Almond Oil : 
the .friction should be continued for 
about ten minutes, and repeated every 
four hours or so. Goose-grease and 
other fatty substances are recom- 
mended, but simple Oil is best, the 
friction being the principal agent for 
good. Between the intervals of this, 
the breast should be kept covered with 
a tepid water dressing, having over it 
oiled silk to prevent evaporation. Care 
should be taken during this treatment 
to keep the bowels gently open, and 
to keep under the febrile symptoms. 
Leeching the breast in case of threat- 
ened abscess is sometimes resorted to, 
but its utility is very questionable ; at 
all events, it should never be so unless 
under proper direction ; there may 
be cases in which it is advisable. A 
mammary abscess will frequently con- 
tinue discharging for a considerable 
period, and during this time the 
patient should be supported by a nour- 
ishing, although light, diet. Stimu- 
lants are generally to be avoided, but 
sometimes they are really necessary. 
A warm Bread Poultice is best for the 
abscess; it should be changed about 



FEVERS. 



83 



every four hours, and covered with 
oiled silk ; when the discharge has 
nearly ceased, simple tepid water 
dressings may be substituted. The 
breast, during all this time, should be 
supported by a soft handkerchief tied 
round the neck ; an application of 
Collodion Oil over the part has some- 
times been used ; it forms a thin coat 
which, contracting as it dries, affords 
the necessary support, if the breast is 
not very large and heavy; if some 
amount of pressure is required, strips 
of strapping crossing each other will 
effect this object. After all danger of 
inflammation is over, a more generous 
diet may be allowed ; a grain of Qui- 
nine, in a little Sherry Wine, two or 
three times a day, or half a pint of 
Porter. Should the breast remain 
hard, friction with Soap Liniment 
should be resorted to ; a dram of Com- 
pound Tincture of Iodine to each 
ounce will render it more effectual. 

Sore Nipples. — Very painful and 
distressing cases of Sore Nipples fre- 
quently occur after child-birth ; some- 
times they cannot be avoided, but 
frequently they arise from too great 
an anxiety on the part of the mother, 
who is constantly meddling with them, 
applying the mouth of the child, 
and resorting to all sorts of expedi- 
ents to draw them out. A judicious 
Qurse will prevent this, and also take 
care to guard the breasts as much as 
possible from those constant alterna- 
tions of wet and dry to which they are 
exposed. Nipple shields of ivory or 
glass, with India rubber teats, may be 
readily procured, and should be used 
when the nipples are too sore and ten- 
der to bear the application of the in- 
fant's mouth ; in this case, the milk 
must be drawn from the breast by one 
of the contrivances above mentioned, 
and given to the child in a feeding 
bottle. Glycerine has been found a 
good application for chapped or other- 
wise sore nipples ; it must be applied 
with a camel hair brush, first wiping 
the part dry with a soft piece of linen ; 
if obtained pure, there will be little or 
no smell in it to annoy either mother 



or child ; Collodion is also useful, but 
it causes considerable smarting. If, as 
is sometimes the case, there be suppu- 
ration, warm bread poultices must be 
applied, and after them tepid water 
dressing. A little borax or alum dis- 
solved in soft water is often used. 

Change of Life generally occurs be- 
tween the ages of forty and fifty years ; 
the symptoms are great irregularity, 
both in the quantity and times of the 
usual discharges, sometimes entirely 
disappearing for four or five months, 
then coming again, and sometimes 
with an immense flow. Constipation 
of the bowels, and palpitation of the 
heart, a changeable appetite, and gen- 
eral unrest, timidity, dizziness, and 
bad feelings in the head are peculiar 
symptoms. 

If this period be safely passed, a 
healthy old age generally follows, but 
great care is required, and the advice 
of a good physician should be obtained, 
for disease may have been laying dor- 
mant in the system, and as the custom- 
ary discharges are stopped, may now 
develop itself. 

The diet should be plain and nu- 
tritious, but not stimulating. Exer- 
cise in the open air, and the sponge 
bath, must not be neglected. The 
bowels should be regulated by some 
gentle medicine. If there is a ten- 
dency of blood to the head, cupping, 
or leeches, and some cathartic medi- 
cines will be proper, but should only 
be given under the advice of a physi- 
cian. 

FEVER. — The characteristic marks 
of Fever are an increase of heat, an 
accelerated pulse, a foul tongue ; often 
cold chills and shivering, headache, 
sore throat, great thirst, and an im- 
paired state of the functions gener- 
ally. 

The causes are various ; among them 
may be named exposure to cold, heat, 
or wet, fatigue, long-continued watch- 
ing, or mental anxiety, intemperance, 
unwholesome or insufficient food, 
breathing impure air, and all the bad 
local influences to which the lower 
classes, especially of large cities, are 



84 



you ask! — I'll tell! 



too often exposed, and the excesses 
and irregularities to which these classes 
are addicted. Most of the forms of 
Fever are epidemic, and their preva- 
lence at or after periods of scarcity 
and privation, of unusual heat, or ex- 
cessive moisture, render it impossible 
to doubt that there are certain states of 
the atmosphere, and conditions of the 
system, which render the latter pecu- 
liarly predisposed to febrific influence ; 
and this is the case with all epidemic 
diseases, for many of which we look 
for an increase at particular times and 
seasons ; thus, in the spring, measles 
prevail generally to a greater extent 
than at any other part of the year ; 
Scarlet Fever is most common in the 
autumn ; and Typhus towards the 
close of summer, which, especially if 
it be cold and wet, is the season most 
productive of all kinds of fever. 

Typhoid Fever. — We generally 
look for the typhoid symptoms at 
about the end of the second week of 
the Fever, and as soon as they appear, 
we commence strengthening the sys- 
tem for the great trial it must sustain, 
by all the means in our power, having, 
however, a due regard to local conges- 
tions, and other comjilications, which 
may present themselves. If the brain 
is not too much affected, we at once 
resort to stimulants, such as Brandy 
or Port Wine, the latter mulled, with 
a grain or two of Quinine in each dose 
of half a wineglassful two or three 
times a day. If there is much cere- 
bral excitement, we give Ammonia, 
the Carbonate, 5 grains, or Aromatic 
Spirit, 10 drops, in 1 ounce of Decoc- 
tion of Bark, three times a day ; also 
Beef Tea in small quantities fre- 
quently. It is the rule, in most diseases, 
to wait for a clean tongue and moist 
skin before we administer tonics and 
stimulants; but, in this, we should 
often lose our patients if we did so. 
Very commonly we administer these 
even when we know Pneumonia or 
Bronchitis are present, overlooking the 
lesser for the greater danger. Besides 
which, it is by no means clear that the 
stimulant method of treating Pneu- 



monia is not the most successful — at 
all events we have found it so. Sul- 
phate of Quinine, 1 grain, with 10 
drops of dilute Sulphuric Acid, in 1 
ounce of Infusion of Roses, is a good 
form of tonic; its acidity, too, renders 
it pleasant and refreshing to the fever- 
stricken. When the debility is ex- 
treme. Brandy and Port Wine, in equal 
proportions, J a wineglass together, 
may be given. 

It is sometimes necessary to give 
nutrients and stimulants in very small 
quantities — the power of swallowing 
being nearly lost — a teaspoonful of 
Port Wine, thickened with Arrowroot, 
every quarter of an hour or ten min- 
utes ; or of Beef Tea, with a little 
Brandy in it. In this case, too, a 
Beef Tea clyster may be used with ad- 
vantage. When, as is often the case, 
there is paralysis of the bladder, so 
that the urine does not pass off, a 
catheter must be used. It is necessary 
to pay particular attention to the back 
and other parts of a typhus patient, as 
troublesome bed-sores frequently occur. 
The use of the water-bed will gen- 
erally prevent this. As the typhoid 
symptoms disappear, and convales- 
cence becomes fairly established, the 
greatest mischief is to be apprehended 
from an indulgence of that craving 
for solid food and stimulant drinks 
which is experienced by the patient. 
He longs for Chops and Steaks, Oysters 
and Ale ; he is sick of Arrowroot and 
Beef Tea, knd all kinds of "slops," 
and becomes quite angry that he can- 
not have some change of diet. He 
wants something solid to eat, now that 
he has an appetite for it; but a judi- 
cious nurse will deny him this gratifi- 
cation for a time. Light puddings of 
Arrowroot, Ground Rice, Sago, Semo- 
lina, or Tapioca, may be first ventured 
on ; and when the tongue is quite 
clean, and all febrile symptoms have 
disappeared, a beginning of meat diet 
may be made with a small slice of 
chicken ; and if this agrees with the 
stomach, there may be a gradual ad- 
vance to stronger meats, with whole- 
some white kinds of fish for an occa- 



FEVERS. 



85 



sional variety. It is likely that tonics 
may be required for a considerable 
time after the patient is convalescent ; 
and, as soon as there is sufficient 
strength for the journey, it is desirable 
that he should have a change of air, 
especially if the same local influences 
are still in operation by which the dis- 
ease was first induced. We should 
have mentioned above, that in cases of 
Fever of a low, malignant kind, fresh 
Yeast, in teaspoon doses, given every 
three or four hours, has been found 
very beneficial, and that, through the 
whole course of the disease, disinfect- 
mts, such as the Chloride of Lime or 
. Zinc, should be freely used. 

Fever and Ague. — An intermit- 
tent fever, cliaracterized by cold fits 
succeeded by hot; very prevalent in 
damp, marshy districts. Between the 
paroxysms, or periods, there is a per- 
fect intermisson when no fever is 
present, and the patient feels only the 
lassitude resulting from debility, and 
can often go about his ordinary em- 
ployments, if they be not too laborious. 
Agues have been divided in accordance 
with the paroxysmal periods, into — 1. 
Quotidian, or daily, having an interval 
of twenty-four hours between the at- 
tacks ; 2. Tertian, or third-day, having 
an interval of forty-eight hours; 3. 
Quartan, or fourth-day, having an in- 
termission of seventy-two hours be- 
tween each attack : and 4. Erratic, when 
the return of the fever goes beyond the 
latter period, and is commonly irreg- 
ular in its recurrence. The paroxysms 
of Ague are divided into three tolerably 
regular stages : — 1st, the Cold Stage, 
when the chill creeps over the system, 
the color departs from the lips, the face 
becomes deadly pale, and the whole 
frame shivers and trembles as though 
smitten by a frosty wind, the pulse be- 
comes slow, and the veins seem filled 
with ice ; there is generally nausea and 
faintness, and an utter prostration of 
strength : the patient has no power to 
stay the convulsive trembling of his 
-every limb and joint, and which con- 
tinues for a longer or shorter interval, 
as the case may be, and is succeeded i 



by — 2. The ITot Stage, when the 
warmth of the body gradually returns, 
at first irregularly, by transient flushes; 
then by a steady, dry, burning heat, 
which rises much above the natural 
standard ; the lips resume their color, 
the cheeks are flushed, the tongue is 
parched and white ; there is a sense of 
fulness in the head, and flying pains 
in the loins, back, and other parts of 
the body, accompanied sometimes by a 
twitching of the nerves, and a difficulty 
of respiration; there is great thirst, 
and the urine is highly colored, and 
burns as it is voided ; the pulse is quick, 
strong and hard, as in more sustained 
fevers. Then comes — 3. The Sweating 
Stage. At first a slight moisture 
breaks out upon the face and neck, 
and this is succeeded by a profuse 
general perspiration ; the temperature 
of the body falls gradually to the nat- 
ural standard, the pulse softens and 
diminishes in frequency, the respira- 
tion becomes more full and free, the 
pains depart; there is a desire to 
evacuate the bowels, and all the ani- 
mal functions are restored to thei- 
proper order. Very seldom does the 
disease leave the patient at once, but 
retires slowly, as though loth to be 
beaten ; most probably the quotidian 
becomes a tertian, then a quartan, and 
then again erratic, before it finally 
discontinues its attacks, which also 
become gradually lighter and of 
shorter duration, until they cease alto- 
gether. 

Ague attacks, almost indiscrimi- 
nately, persons of all ages and 
conditions of life, more perhaps those 
of the middle age than any other, and 
men more than women. If poor peo- 
ple are generally more aguish than 
rich, it is simply because they are 
more exposed to its 

Exciting Causes. — The principal of 
which is marsh miasma or malaria; 
that is, the effluvia arising from lands 
that have been flooded, and afterwards 
exposed to the heat of the sun, which 
draws up the moisture in the form of 
vapor, laden with deleterious gases, 
from decomposed animal and vegetable 



86 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



substances. Not always does the per- 
son inhaling this experience the attack 
of Ague at once ; the disease seems to 
be, as it were, latent in the system, and 
to be called into activity by a par- 
ticular state or condition of the body, 
or by some other circumstances favor- 
able to its development, such as wet 
or cold weather, exposure to night air, 
over-anxiety, want of rest or food, or 
aught which tends to debilitate the 
system. It has been contended by 
Dr. Snow that merely atmospheric 
agents do not communicate Ague, but 
that it enters the system by the ali- 
mentary canal, by means of the 
marshy and stagnant water drunk by 
those who live in low-lying districts. 
It may be so to a certain extent, but 
not altogether ; it is by the lungs 
chiefly we are inclined to think that 
the poison enters. And what are its 
effects upon the internal economy? It 
causes a distension of the liver and of 
the spleen, the former being called 
gall-cake, and the latter ague-cake : the 
proper circulation of the blood is 
interfered with ; it accumulates in the 
veins of the viscera generally ; the 
functions of the liver and the alimen- 
tary canal are disturbed, and the con- 
sequences are such as we have 
endeavored to describe. 

Treatment. — Ague may generally be 
considered as a curable disease — in 
dry and temperate climates especially. 
The more regular forms of attack are 
the least dangerous. When it comes at 
irregular periods, as it sometimes does, 
with great violence, and when the pa- 
tient is prostrated by some other sick- 
ness, it is likely to prove fatal, 
especially if of long standing. Some- 
times a mere change of residence to a 
more dry and airy locality, with pro- 
per attention to diet, will suffice to 
check it ; and should these measures 
not succeed, there is little danger in 
allowing it to run its course, unless 
the patient should be weakly, in which 
case medicines should at once be 
resorted to. 

It is not often that a first attack of 
Ague can be anticipated : and during 



the paroxysm eflforts must be directed 
to alleviate the severe symptoms, to 
shorten its progress, and avert the 
danger of internal congestion. In the 
cold stage, we should apply artificial 
warmth, such as hot-water bottles, or 
a mustard bath, to the feet, mustard 
poultices to the pit of the stomach, 
friction of the back with stimulating 
liniment — say Soap Liniment and 
Spirits of Turpentine, equal parts — 
and the use of the hot-air bath in ex- 
treme cases. Negus, Tea, Gruel, 
Barley-water, or any warm diluent 
drinks, may be given ; and should the 
fit prove long and severe, a draught, 
consisting of Tincture of Opium and 
^ther, or Compound Spirit of Am- 
monia, of each half a dram, to an 
ounce of Camphor Mixture or Pepper- 
mint Water. When the hot stage 
comes on, the body should be sponged 
with cold water; and cool drinks, such 
as Lemonade — if iced, so much the 
better — be given. Should no Laud- 
anum have been previously adminis- 
tered, a half dram dose, without any 
stimulant, but with a dram of Liquor 
of Acetate of Ammonia, may be given, 
unless there is congestion of the veins 
of the head, or delirium, in which case 
leeches, or cupping on the temple, 
should be resorted to, and the opiate 
avoided. In the sweating stage, the 
patient should be kept as tranquil as 
possible; moderate the perspiration, 
and, if the exhaustion is great, admin- 
ister a little weak spirits and water. 
When the fit is over, dry the surface 
of the body with warm towels, put on 
clean, well-aired linen, and have a 
warm bed ready for his reception. 
During the intermission of the par- 
oxysms, a mixture like the following 
may be taken : — Sulphate of Quinine, 
12 grains; diluted Sulphuric Acid, 
24 minims ; Camphor Mixture, 6 
ounces. Mix, and take two table- 
spoonfuls every four hours. Should 
this not prove efiectual, or should it 
cause, as Quinine sometimes does, a 
throbbing in the head, it is best to try So- 
lution of Arsenite of Potash, 5 minims, 
three or four times a day, in any con* 



FEVEES. 



87 



venient vehicle; the dose may be 
gradually increased to 10 minims ; but 
the action of this remedy must be care- 
fully watched, as too much of it may 
act prejudicially on the system. 
Should there be tremors, griping 
pains in the stomach and bowels, or 
itching of the face and eyelids, let it 
be at once discontinued. Large doses 
of Quinine, say 10 grains, will some- 
times arrest an attack of Ague, if taken 
just as it is coming on, and so, some- 
times, will anything making a strong 
impression on the mind ; such as fear, 
hope, joy, anger, etc. Sulphate of 
Zinc is a good remedy for Ague; 3 
grains of it made into a pill, with Con- 
fection of Opium, may be taken 3 times 
a day, the dose to be increased a grain 
every day, until it reaches 10 or 12 
grains. No fluid should be swallowed 
lor some time after the dose, or it 
may cause vomiting. Finely powdered 
Charcoal, 20 grains, in Brandy and 
water, every three or four hours, has 
been recommended by good authorities, 
and so have 10-grain doses of Calomel, 
formed into pills with mucilage, or 
molasses. Bitter infusions, such as 
Quassia, and Gentian, or Camomile, 
are no doubt serviceable in this dis- 
order, during the progress of which, 
purgatives should be given occasion- 
ally — 3 to 5 grains of Calomel at 
night, and a draught of Ehubarb and 
Magnesia in the morning, is the best. 
By this course the disease will be 
arrested, but the germs of disease still 
remain in the system, and it is neces- 
sary that these shall be eradicated, or 
in fourteen, twenty-one, or twenty- 
eight days there will be a recurrence 
of the disease. 

The daily use of small doses of Qui- 
nine, for at least forty days, when, if 
there has been no new exposure to the 
cause of the disease, it will be entirely 
eradicated from the system ; for this 
purpose we have found the following 
a valuable prescription : 

Quinine Sulphate, 32 grains ; Syrup 
per Chloride of Iron, 2 drams ; Simple 
Syrup, 4 ounces. Dose : Teaspoonful 
three times per day. 



Yellow Fever is another disease 
arising out of biliary derangement. It 
is sometimes called Balum Fever, or 
Black Vomit, and is a remittent fever, 
accompanied with yellowness of the 
skin, and vomiting of a black or dark 
brown fluid ; these two symptoms are 
its invariable accompaniments, and 
they are attended with all the visual 
marks of fever in a high degree. This 
disease belongs to the West Indies, and 
other hot climates, and is extremely 
fatal. It first comes on with weakness 
and pain in the limbs, headache, heat 
in the eyes, parched mouth, the tongue 
is browned and furred, with red edges ; 
there is a hard, quick, and full pulse, 
a dry hot skin, the bowels are confined, 
and the urine small in quantity and 
high colored, commonly tinged with 
bile. In from twenty-four to forty- 
eight hours the fever reaches its height, 
and the powers of life sink beneath its 
fury ; the pulse becomes almost imper- 
ceptible or intermittent, the breathing 
labored and dilficult; there is a dis- 
tressing hiccough, continual vomiting 
of the black matter, and bleeding from 
the nose, mouth, and other passages, 
and very shortly exhaustion and death. 
A milder form of Bilious, or as it is 
sometimes called. Gastric Fever, pre- 
vails in this country, the treatment of 
which varies but little from that pre- 
scribed in Typhus. In this the mis- 
chief is almost wholly confined to the 
alimentary canal ; the head is but little 
affected, and the febrile symptoms do 
not run high, therefore it is best not 
to administer violent remedies. If, as 
is commonly the case, there be diar- 
rhoea, let it go on for a little time, as 
by this means the system becomes re- 
lieved of its superfluous bile ; it must,, 
however, be carefully watched, and 
checked, if the motions exceed three 
or four daily ; if the motions should 
be very offensive, finely powdered vege- 
table charcoal may be given, 10 or 15 
grains, twice a day, in water. After the 
first week the diarrhoea should be stop- 
ped, and to this end an injection of 
Starch or Gumwater, with Laudanum 
(20 or 30 drops for an adult), had better 



88 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



be tried before recourse is had to medi- 
cines. Should this not succeed, Chalk 
Mixture, with a little Aromatic Con- 
fection, with 6 drops of Laudanum in 
each dose, three times a day ; or the 
following: — Diluted Sulphuric Acid, 
3 drams. Laudanum, 2 drams, water, 
6 ounces ; mix, and take 1 ounce every 
three or four hours, or after each loose 
motion. Should these not have the 
desired effect, try these powders, one 
every six hours: — Powdered Opium 
and Rhubarb, of the former 1 grain, 
of the latter 12 grains; Bicarbonate 
of Soda, 12 grains; divide in six. If, 
on the contrary, there is constipation 
of the bowels, administer a clyster of 
thin gruel with salt, or brown sugar, 
administering also Castor Oil, or some 
mild aperient, should the operations 
be suflBciently copious. Should there 
be obstinate vomiting, give Soda Water, 
or a simple effervescing draught; if 
these fail, try Hydrocyanic Acid, in 
drop doses, in plain water, or either 
of the above drinks; a blister to the 
pit of the stomach may also be ajjplied 
should other measures be necessary ; 
and as a last resort, 6 grains of Calo- 
mel may be placed upon the tongue, 
and washed down with a little plain 
water. To restore the tone of the 
stomach and assuage thirst when the 
diarrhoea is stopped, give acidulous 
drink of some kind. This is a good for- 
mula : — Nitro-Muriatic Acid, 10 drops. 
Lump Sugar, 1 ounce, water, 1 pint; 
half a tumbler to be given every three 
or four hours. For restoring the 
strength of the convalescent patient, 
give Chicken Broth, Beef Tea, Wine, 
and Bitter Ale; if the abdomen be- 
comes swollen and indurated, let it be 
well rubbed night and morning with a 
liniment composed of Turpentine and 
Sweet Oil in equal quantities; in this 
case the gruel enema may be used with 
Castor Oil and Turpentine, of each 
about a tablespoon ful. The recum- 
bent position should be maintained 
throughout the attack. 

RHEUMATISM. — This is a pain- 
ful disease, which affect-s the muscles 
and joints of the human body. It 



chiefly affects the larger joints, as the 
hips, knees, and shoulders, and is gen- 
erally attended with swelling and stiff- 
ness ; when accompanied by fever it 
constitutes Acute Rheumatism, or Rheu- 
matic Fever. Some pathologists make 
the following distinct varieties of the 
disease : — 1st, Articular Rheumatism, 
occurring in the joints and muscles 
of the extremities; 2d, Lumbecgo, oc- 
curring in the loins, and mostly shoot- 
ing upwards ; 3d, Sciatica, occurring 
in the hip-joint, with emaciation of 
the nates. 

Acute Rheumatism generally com- 
mences with a feeling; of weariness, 
shivering, and a quickened pulse, ac- 
companied by redness, heat, and pain, 
in or around one or more of the larger 
joints; sometimes seveial are affected 
at once, but usually they are attacked 
in succession — this method of going 
from one joint to another being a 
marked characteristic of the disease ; 
sometimes the first joint is relieved 
when the attack is felt in another, but 
not always ; sometimes the whole of 
the larger joints become implicated, 
and then the smaller ones, and finally 
the heart, in which case there is gen- 
erally a fatal termination to the 
patient's sufferings. The fibrous tis- 
sues of the body appear to be the me- 
dia by which the Rheumatic affection 
is communicated from one part to 
another. The disease, it is likely, is 
constitutional, depending on a morbid 
condition of the blood ; one of its 
symptoms is considerable heat of the 
skin, and a profuse sour-smelling per- 
spiration ; generally the urine is high- 
colored, and deposits a sediment like 
brick dust. In one of the acute forms 
of the disease there is pufliness around 
the part attacked, with distinct red lines 
running from it, and, subsequently, 
oxlema ; with this there is, generally, 
a high degree of inflammatory fever, 
with a furred tongue, and very copious 
acid perspirations ; this is the form in 
which the heart is most likely to be 
affected. In the other and more com- 
mon form, the fever is not so violent, 
and moderates as soon as the joints 



RHEUMATISM. 



89 



begin to swell ; this form is generallj" 
called Rheumatic Gout. 

The similarity between Gout and 
Rheumatism renders it probable that 
the same cause may originate both. 
There is, however, a marked distinction 
in the circumstance, that in Gout the 
poison, which is in the system, sepa- 
rates itself from the blood, and is de- 
posited in the form of chalk-stones; 
in the latter it appears to be thrown 
out in that peculiar acid so remarkable 
in the perspiration. 

Cold and moisture would seem to be 
the principal exciting causes of Acute 
Rheumatism, probably by checking 
perspiration, and so preventing the 
poisonous principle from passing off by 
the skin, so that it is retained, and 
circulates in the blood. Violent ex- 
ercise and over-exertion will sometimes 
bring on an attack of this disease, 
which, like Gout, is hereditary in some 
families. Persons between the ages 
of fifteen and forty are most subject 
to it, but where there is the above- 
mentioned predisposition it often 
shows itself in the young. 

The treatment of the acute form 
should be prompt and active, the in- 
flammatory fever having first to be 
subdued ; purgatives and general bleed- 
ing, if the patient is of full habit, 
but not the latter otherwise. Dr. 
Graves says that in this disease, 
"Blood-letting should be practised 
with great caution, and its effects care- 
fully observed : take away five or six 
ounces of blood, and if the pain be les- 
sened and the sweats diminished, you 
are encouraged to bleed more boldly." 

About 3 grains of Calomel at night, 
and a Black Draught in the morn- 
ing, to be repeated every four hours 
until the bowels are freely opened ; 
plenty of warm diluent drinks, and 
confinement to bed with warmth to 
promote perspiration. Apply to the 
inflamed parts a lotion composed of 
Spirit, Vinegar, and Water, one part 
of each of the former to two of the lat- 
ter, with the chill taken off; if the 
pain is very great at the joints, Leeches 
may be applied. When the inflamma- 



tion is in some measure subdued, re- 
course may be had to the grand specific 
in diseases of this class, viz., Colchicum, 
15 drops of the wine of which may 
be taken every four hours, with J a 
dram of Sweet Spirits of Nitre, i au 
ounce of the Liquor of Acetate of Am- 
monia, and 1 ounce of Camphor Mix- 
ture ; at bedtime a scruple of Dover's 
Powder, with 2 grains of Calomel, un- 
til the mouth becomes slightly affected, 
when the latter must be omitted; 
should the action of the Colchicum on 
the bowels be too strong, reduce the 
dose by one-half, or omit it altogether, 
and give ^-grain of Tartrate of Potash, 
with 5 grains of Nitrate of Potash, 
in Camphor Mixture, every four hours. 
Should the joints continue swollen and 
purple, blisters may be applied after the 
Leeches, and when the bites are healed, 
friction with Mercurial Liniment, and 
an air-tight covering over cotton carded 
wool, should be applied. 

In less acute cases, where the urine 
is acid, and deposits the before-men- 
tioned sediment, a mixture like this 
may be taken in conjunction with sa- 
line aperients : Bicarbonate of Potash, 
2 drams ; Infusion of Gentian or Ca- 
lumba, 6 ounces : take 1 ounce three 
times a day until the deposit ceases ; 
or substitute for the Bicarbonate, the 
Liquor of Potash, 1 dram. Also dis- 
solve a little Nitrate of Potash in 
Barley-water, and take a wineglassful 
now and then as a restorative to health. 
When the disease appears to be nearly 
subdued, take Hydriodate of Potash, 1 
dram, in Decoction of Sarsaparilla, 8 
ounces, a wineglassful twice a day. 

When Rheumatism has become 
chronic, it is generally very intracta- 
ble ; it is most capricious in its visita- 
tions, sometimes affecting one joint, 
sometimes another, and generally leav- 
ing the part attacked swollen and 
tender; to this it will frequently re- 
turn, sometimes causing thickening of 
the joint and permanent lameness; 
sometimes the symptoms resemble 
those of Acute Rheumatism, and re- 
quire leeching, spare diet, and a simi- 
lar line of treatment ; but this is not 



90 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



generally the case : a tolerably gener- 
ous diet, with nervous stimulants and 
stimulating applications being mostly 
necessary lor the chronic forms of this 
troublesome and painful disease, in 
which, excepting Colchicum, nothing 
appears to exercise such a specific ac- 
tion as Guaiacum, which may be taken 
in the form of powder or tincture. 
Besides these two remedies. Ginger, 
Mustard, Sulphur, Turpentine, Com- 
pound Powder of Ipecacuanha, and 
Cod Liver Oil, have all been found 
beneficial. Indeed, there is perhaps 
no disease for which so many different 
" cures " are recommended ; nor is 
there one which more obstinately re- 
tains its hold on the system, and defies 
all attempts to dislodge it. Anything 
which promotes free perspiration is 
likely to be beneficial ; warm bathing 
and friction ; sulphureous, hot-air, 
and vapor baths have been found of 
great service, and the patient must not 
be disheartened if they do not succeed 
at once, or if the disease returns after 
they have, as it appeared, subdued it ; 
he must continue the remedies for a 
long time, and return to them again 
and again if necessary. Seldom or ever 
is Rheumatism quite got rid of, when 
once it has taken a hold of the system. 
LUMBAGO. — A rheumatic affec- 
tion of the muscles of the loins. This, 
as many of us well know, is an ex- 
tremely painful affection ; the pain 
being aggravated by any action which 
brings the muscles involved in the dis- 
order into play. Like Sciatica, it is 
but a modification of Rheumatism ; 
nevertheless, it requires, in some meas- 
ure, a peculiar treatment. When ac- 
companied by fever and much pain, 
which is aggravated by the warmth of 
the bed, leeching or cupping is advisa- 
ble, with aperients and diaphoretics; 
3 grains of Calomel at night, with 
about 10 grains of Compound Ipecac- 
uanha Powder, and a Senna Draught in 
the morning, following it up with this 
mixture: Solution of Acetate of Am- 
monia, 1 J ounces ; Wine of Colchicum, 
1 dram; Sweet Spirits of Nitre and 
Simple Syrup, of each 2 drams ; Cam- 



phor Mixture, 4 ounces ; take a fourth 
part about every four hours. The 
Dover's Powders should be continued 
every night — not the Calomel ; about 
a couple of doses of this, at intervals 
of a week or so, will be found suffi- 
cient. Warm applications to the loins 
will afford great relief; one of the best 
is a large Bran Poultice, applied quite 
hot, all over the loins. Dr. Graves re- 
commends a stream of hot water,direct- 
ed with considerable force against the 
part ; it is beneficial not only on ac- 
count of the heat, but also for the me- 
chanical impulse which it gives. When 
there is no fever with the Lumbago, 
the best medicine is Volatile Tincture 
of Guaiacum, 1 dram, in Cinnamon 
Water, three times a day, with the 
Dover's Powder at night, and friction 
with Soap Liniment and Tincture of 
Aconite, or Opium, about a dram to 
the ounce; or apply a Belladonna 
Plaster, keeping the bowels freely open 
with a Colocynth Pill occasionally, or 
a draught of Senna, or Compound De- 
coction of Aloes ; Decoction of Sarsa- 
parilla, with Iodide of Potassium, 
may be also given with advantage. In 
obstinate cases. Acupuncture, Electric- 
ity, and Galvanism, have each and all 
been successfully applied. The follow- 
ing is a good form for a liniment to be 
used in such cases : Strong Liquor of 
Ammonia, Tincture of Opium, Spirit 
of Turpentine, and Olive Oil, equal 
quantities ; rub in warm, night and 
morning. 

SCROFULA. — This is a disease 
characterized by a chronic swelling of 
the absorbent glands, which tend 
slowly to imperfect suppuration. One 
popular name for it, is the King's 
Evil. It is characterized by want of 
power, or tone, in the system. Its 
most prominent symptoms are the for- 
mation of indolent tumors in various 
parts of the body, but most commonly 
in the neck, behind the ears, and 
under the skin ; after a while these sup- 
purate, and discharge a thick cheesy 
matter. A scrofulous person has gen- 
erally a puffy, unhealthy appearance 
about the face ; the upper lip is thick 



SOROPULA. 



91 



and tumid, the belly prominent ; there 
is frequent discharge from the eyes, 
nose, and mouth ; a predisposition to 
catarrh and swelled tonsils, often caus- 
ing a huskiness in the voice. 

The digestive functions are imper- 
fectly performed, consequently the 
bowels are irregular; the skin is sel- 
dom free from some kind of eruption, 
and there is listlessness and want of 
energy about the whole manner and 
appearance of the person so affected. 
Scrofula is among the commonest of 
hereditary taints — the children of 
scrofulous parents are seldom free from 
it, and we find such especially among 
the lower classes — pallid, puffy, dull 
and inanimate creatures, with a dry, 
harsh skin, grievously full of blemishes, 
and a mind almost a blank. Some- 
times, though bat rarely, and under 
favorable circumstances, we find a 
scrofulous child whose want of bodily 
power and activity seems to be com- 
pensated by a remarkably quick and 
intelligent mind ; but this is quite the 
exception to the rule; and very often, in 
such cases, it may be accounted for by 
the extra care and attention bestowed 
upon the development of the mental 
powers of those who are deficient in 
muscular energy. 

Scrofula commonly first shows itself 
between the ages of three and seven ; 
but not always in those early stages of 
life. Sometimes in those who have 
the taint, it may lie dormant until after 
the age of puberty, waiting, as it were, 
for some incitement to call it forth. 
A slight cold, unwholesome food, bad 
air, or a variety of other causes, may 
have this eflFect. Very few persons, 
however, really die of Scrofula — the 
ascertained proportion is about eight in 
one hundred thousand ; but scrofulous 
persons often die of diseases which at- 
tack and overcome them, more readily 
and easily, on account of the vitiated 
and weakened condition of the system. 
Children who are brought up by hand, 
or even by a wet nurse, are more liable 
to Scrofula than those suckled by the 
mother ; and especial care should be 
taken that all such are well fed and '\ 



cared for, warmly clothed, well sup- 
plied with pure fresh air, and kept 
from all influences which might tend 
to develop the tendency of a scrofu- 
lous condition, which in all proba- 
bility they have. 

Treatment. — Give nutriment, adapted 
to age, but not over-feed. Give plenty 
of animal food, with a moderate pro- 
portion of vegetables and fruit ; plenty 
of milk, a little beer and wine. Assist 
the digestive powers, if necessary, with 
mild aperients. Rhubarb and Grey 
Powders : give tonics. Steel Wine and 
Quinine (alternately, week by week, 
with Cod Liver Oil), occasionally 
changing the above for some other 
tonic. Decoction of Sarsaparilla, with 
Iodide of Potassium, is likely to be 
serviceable ; or Iodide of Iron, in the 
form of a syrup. There should also be 
sea-bathing once or twice a week ; and 
if the glands of the neck are much 
swollen, they should be brushed over 
with Tincture of Iodine, or rubbed 
with Iodine Ointment. 

SCURVY. — The characteristics of 
this disease are great debility, a pale 
complexion, with bloated skin, and 
livid spots about it here and there; 
soft, spongy gums, with offensive 
breath ; swellings on the legs, and 
haemorrhages from the mouth, nose, 
and bowels ; the stools and urine are 
very foetid; and, as the disease pro- 
ceeds, the livid spots on the skin en- 
large and deepen in color, until they 
resemble bruises, from the effusion of 
blood into the cellular tissues ; the 
skin also becomes dry and rough, and 
of an uniform dusky hue ; the debility 
increases, there is great difliculty of 
breathing, constipation of bowels, and 
disinclination to take any kind of 
nourishment, so that eventually, un- 
less the disease yields to medical treat- 
ment, the patient dies of exhaustion. 

Such is the inevitable course of a 
bad attack of Scurvy. Of course, 
lighter ones are constantly occurring, 
and severe ones in which the proper 
remedies are employed in time to 
arrest the progress of the disease, the 
origin of which is intimately associ- 



92 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



ated with fatigue, cold, moisture, and 
impure air, and chiefly with a depri- 
vation of vegetable food, and eating 
too exclusively of salt provisions. 

From this it must be evident that a 
liberal diet of fresh meat and succu- 
lent vegetables should be at once re- 
sorted to. Let the patient have ]>lenty 
of open-air exercise and tepid bath- 
ing ; drinking saline and chalybeate 
waters will be serviceable ; and if 
vegetables cannot be i)rocured, a por- 
tion of liime or Lemon Juice should 
be taken daily. Mild aperient medi' 
cines will also be required, and, in 
many cases, tonics ; preparations of 
Soda are the best, with bitter infusion. 
It has been ascertained that in this 
disease the blood is deficient in pot- 
ash, therefore this substance should be 
among the remedies administered — 
either the Bi-carbonate, Chlorate, or 
Tartrate will do ; a dram dissolved in 
a pint of water should be taken daily. 
Commonly Scurvy, if not very bad, 
can be secured by dietary measures 
alone. In the epidemic which pre- 
vailed in the prisons of Perth, in 1846, 
the addition of milk, and in some 
cases, meat, to the usual allowance, 
arrested the disease. Malt liquor is 
good for those affected with Scurvy ; 
of Lemon Juice, } pint should be given 
every day, pure or diluted with water; 
this appears to be almost a specific, 
few cases resisting its influence. 

INFLAMMATION. - There are 
few diseases that do not present, at 
some period during their course, in- 
flammatory symptoms, and in some 
they may be regarded with satisfaction 
rather than alarm, as indications of a 
healthy action ; thus, in wounds and 
ilcers we would rather have redness, 
•welling, and a considerable degree of 
pain, than the livid, purplish look, 
and dull, dead sensation, which shows 
that there is a want of vitality. The 
reparative processes of nature in the 
animal frame are mostly the result of 
inflammation, which, however, be- 
comes exceedingly dangerous when it 
runs high, and baffles the skill of the 
medical man to subdue it. 



An attack of Inflammation may ter- 
minate in any one of three ways — 
viz., by resolution, suppuration, or moT' 
tification. By the first, which is most 
common, we understand a gradual 
subsidence of the swelling, a diminu- 
tion of the heat, pain, and redness, 
and an abatement of the fever — in 
short, a gradual return to the natural 
state and condition of the part af- 
fected ; the second termination is when 
the inflammatory action goes on to 
the formation of pus ; then we have a 
red, shining swelling, growing more 
and more so, and becoming soft in the 
centre, from whence, in due time, 
either through an artificial or natural 
opening, the matter makes its escape; 
the third, the least common and most 
dangerous termination, is Mortification. 
The first of these is, of course, the most 
desirable to be brought about, and 
where it cannot be, effusion of the 
watery part of the blood is pretty sure 
to follow ; internally, we see this in 
pleivisy and water on the brain ; 
externally, in blisters, burns, and 
scalds. 

ABSCESS is a collection of pus, or 
23urulent matter, in a cyst or cavity 
formed in any of the tissues of the 
body. 

Causes. — Inflammatory action of the 
adhesive kind, induced by a blow, or 
prick, or the introduction of some- 
thing poisonous, or otherwise irrita- 
ting. The cells of the membrane be- 
come filled with adhesive matter, a 
mere drop at first, but as ulceration 
proceeds, this increases in quantity, 
the surrounding parts are gradually 
absorbed, the solids converted into a 
fluid state, more active inflammation 
is set up, causing acute pain, restless- 
ness, loss of api)etite, and of conse- 
quence, great constitutional derange- 
ment. The absorption does not pro- 
ceed with equal rapidity on all sides, 
but has a tendency towards the sur- 
face of the body ; by this we learn that 
matter has no corroding property — to 
act upon the tissues, among the more 
remote and permanent consequences, 
may be mentioned a general weaken- 



ABSCESS. 



93 



Ing of the system, and often lasting 
injury to the parts affected. Abscesses 
are of two kinds — acute and chronic ; 
the former may last from three to six 
weeks, beginning to discharge usually 
at the end of the first period : the 
latter, which is commonly seated in 
some internal part, such as the liver, 
may continue for several months, its 
duration depending very much upon 
the remedial means resorted to, sit- 
uation, constitution of the patient, 
etc. 

Symptoms. — Heat, and tenderness 
of the part affected, is the premonitory 
symptoms of acute Abscess. It is com- 
monly confined at first to a small 
spot, which becomes red and painful 
to the touch : very soon a distinct 
throbbing may be felt, which is a sure 
indication of the formation of matter ; 
then the parts begin to swell, and the 
skin exhibits a shining, semi-trans- 
parent appearance, sometimes being 
tinged with purple; this becomes 
more marked and decided as the ten- 
sion increases, with the increase of 
the matter beneath, until it gives way 
of itself, or is opened by some sharp 
instrument, and the pus flows out, at 
first of a cream-like color and consist- 
ence, often turgid and tinged with 
blood ; thus it continues for a week or 
more, then gradually becomes clearer 
and thinner, until it is quite watery, 
or ceases altogether. During this pro- 
cess, before the matter has found a 
channel of escape, the pain becomes 
more and more complete, until it is 
almost unbearable, giving the patient 
no rest night or day ; then ensues the 
constitutional derangement, and often 
febrile symptoms, which must be re- 
lieved by means of cooling aperients. 

Fomentation with water as hot as it 
can be borne, and hot bread or linseed 
poultices, should be resorted to in the 
first stages of an acute Abscess : strong 
drawing and irritating applications are 
often made use of, but this only in- 
creases the anguish without doing 
good ; indeed it is both cruel and hurt- 
ful. The poultices should be frequent- 
ly changed, in order to keep up the 



requisite degree of warmth ; they should 
be carefully adjusted so as not to press 
unduly upon the tenderest part, and, 
when the pain is very severe, poppy 
heads should be boiled in the water 
with which they are mixed, and this 
poppy decoction should also be used 
for the fomentations. If, as is often 
the case, the Abscess should be in the 
hand or lower part of the arm, that 
limb should be supported by a sling 
made of a silk handkerchief, or some 
other soft material, so as to keep it 
from hanging down ; adjust it so as to 
have the upper part of the arm as 
nearly perpendicular as may be, and 
the bend of the elbow at right angles 
with it. To keep the system cool and 
allay the fever which generally more 
or less attends active inflammation, the 
patient should take, every other night 
or so, an aperient pill, composed of 
Compound Extract of Colocynth, 4 
grains, Calomel, 1 grain, and, two or 
three times a day, a tablespoonful of 
the following mixture : — Sulphate of 
Magnesia, ^ an ounce. Carbonate of 
Magnesia, 1 dram. Wine of Tartarized 
Antimony, 2 grains. Camphor Mix- 
ture, 6 ounces ; should this mixture 
cause griping in the bowels, add thirty 
drops of Essence of Peppermint; if it 
acts too violently, reduce the quantity 
of Sulphate of Magnesia to one-half, 
and take a pill every third night only. 
When the anguish prevents rest at 
night, this draught may be taken at 
bedtime: — Acetate of Morphine, i of a 
grain, Liquor of Acetate of Ammonia, 
1 dram, Camphor Mixture, 7 drams. 

After the discharge of purulent mat- 
ter has ceased, the poultices may be 
discontinued, and moist rags kept ap- 
plied for some days, after which the 
edges of the wound may be drawn to- 
gether by strips of adhesive plaster, 
over which it is best to place a dress- 
ing of Turner's Cerate or Spermaceti 
Ointment. If the wound is deep and 
large, it may be some weeks before it 
fills by granulation, but otherwise the 
healing process proceeds rapidly, un- 
less there is a want of vital energy in 
the system, or a diseased state of the 



n 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



part immediately affected ; in this case 
bad sloughing ulcers result, which are 
very difficult to heal. For their treat- 
ment, see Ulcers. 

A physician will generally open an 
Abscess, when it is sufficiently ripe, 
rather than wait the slower process of 
the breaking of the skin, and by doing 
this he often saves the patient much 
suffering and constitutional derange- 
ment ; but no person unacquainted 
with the anatomy of the part should 
attempt this. To do it effectually, the 
cut should be bold and deep, and ex- 
actly in the right place ; an unpracticed 
baud will probably leave the largest 
reservoir of matter untouched, and 
so render another incision necessary, 
and effect no good purpose by the pain 
inflicted. Where the integument which 
covers the seat of the Abscess is hard 
and thick, it is nearly always necessary 
to open it, and only the skilled prac- 
titioner can judge of the proper time 
for doing this ; therefore his aid should 
in all such cases be solicited, as in 
those of deeply seated and internal 
Abscesses, which generally assume a 
chronic character. With regard to the 
treatment of these, no specific direc- 
tions can be given — it must depend 
much upon the character of the tissues 
which they affect. As a general rule, 
the patient's strength must be support- 
ed by a good and generous diet, and 
the administration of tonic and cor- 
dial medicines, taking care to keep the 
bowels moderately open. Stimulating 
plasters made of Burgundy Pitch, Gum 
Ammoniac with Mercury or Galbanum, 
are applied with advantage to the ab- 
domen, or other seat of the affection, 
as are poultices of oatmeal with vine- 
gar, or yeast, or water impregnated 
with salt. For Abscesses in the neck, 
Astley Cooper recommends incision 
with a sharp knife, pressing the mat- 
ter well out so as to excite adhesive 
inflammation, and dressing the wound 
with bread poultices, moistened firat 
with Sulphate of Zinc in solution, and 
afterwards with Spirits of Wine, giving 
good light nourisnment, and carefully 
regulating the bowels. 



For the relief of the hectic fever. 
night sweats, and other constitutional 
disturbances, caused by both acute and 
chronic Abscesses, but more especially 
the latter, preparations of bark or iron, 
mineral acids or Cod-Liver Oil may be 
given during the period of copious dis- 
charge; and especially immediately 
after it, when the powers of nature are 
most sorely taxed to supply the waste 
and reconstruct the destroyed tissues, 
is nourishing food and strengthening 
medicine required. 

Ulcer, Ulceration. — A solution of 
continuity in any of the soft parts of 
the body, either open to the surface, 
or to any internal cavity, and attended 
with a secretion of pus or some kind 
of discharge, is an Ulcer ; and the 
process of forming this is Ulceration. 

In Ulceration the lymphatics are as 
active as the arteries, and absorb the 
pus as soon as it is formed, causing 
thus a disappearance of the natural 
structure without, as in the case of 
abscess, anything to supply its place. 
It is by this destructive process going 
on between an abscess and the skin, 
that the latter is laid open to the sur- 
face. Wounds in the flesh, if at all 
deep, are very likely to pass into 
Ulcers ; thus, instead of healing, as it 
is called, by " the first intention," they 
remain open, discharging pus or matter, 
and presenting a granulated surface; 
this we should call a healthy Ulcer, or 
one tending to heal. If, on the contrary, 
there is no appearance of filling up 
with red granulations, but the hollow 
rather deepens, and the disorganized 
tissue comes away in a black or 
bloody discharge, this is an unhealthy, 
or sloughing Ulcer, and if not changed 
in its nature will penetrate more and 
more deeply, and will either reach 
some vital part or kill the patient by 
exhaustion. Where there is not suffi- 
cient energy and vitality in the system 
to resist the process of destruction in 
the tissues, and build up anew the de- 
stroyed parts, a wound is likely to be- 
come an Ulcer, and this will assume 
the latter condition ; hence the ne- 
cessity of giving all the assistance pos- 



ABSCESS. 



96 



Bible to the vital powers, by nutritious 
food, and tonic and stimulating medi- 
cines. 

Persons in whom, from age or other 
cause, the circulation has become slug- 
gish, are those most liable to Ulcera- 
tions, and that of an unhealthy kind. 
This may take place in any part of the 
body, but it most commonly occurs in 
the legs, which are farthest removed 
from the great course of circulation. 
Ulcerated Legs are among the most 
difficult cases that a surgeon has to 
deal with : he will first insist upon 
perfect rest, and keeping the limb in a 
horizontal position as much as possible. 
When the Ulcer is very foul and dark- 
looking, warm poultices will have to 
be applied to bring away the slough ; 
when this is accomplished, and there 
is a tolerably clean surface, discharging 
only pus, a simple water dressing may 
be sufficient for a time. Should the 
Ulcer improve under such treatment, 
this may be continued until the heal- 
ing takes place. If, however, the 
granulations, which will begin to fill 
up the hollow, appear large, pale, and 
flabby, and not small and red, as they 
should do, an astringent lotion will be 
necessary ; this may be either of the 
Sulphates of Copper or Zinc, or Ace- 
tate of Lead. Lotions are far better 
than ointment, as they are more 
cleanly ; the rags wet with them have 
to be often renewed. If it is really 
necessary for the patient to get about, 
in which case the limb should be 
bandaged, it is, perhaps, best to keep a 
dressing of Zinc Ointment applied 
during the day, and wash the un- 
healthy granulations, when the band- 
age is removed, with a Nitrate of 
Sliver or Sulphate of Copper lotion. 
It is often desirable, even where rest 
can be taken, to use the roller bandage, 
which should be applied from the toes 
upwards in the manner directed under 
the head of Bandages. Previous to 
this application, the wound, besides 
the dressing, should be covered with 
strips of Soap or adhesive Plaster (the 
former is the best), applied so as to 
overlap each other some distance above 



and below the ulcer. If Zinc Oint- 
ment does not seem to agree well, try 
Turner's Cerate, or the Cerate of Lead; 
in some cases Red Precipitate Oint- 
ment, considerably diluted, answers 
very well. Venice Turpentine, Resiu 
Ointment, and other drawing and irri- 
tating applications, are sometimes re- 
commended, but they are decidedly 
injurious. These are a few hints for 
general treatment, but individual cases 
present peculiarities which call for 
numerous modifications. The consti- 
tutional treatment will require great 
attention ; the strength must be suj)- 
ported, and any tendency to inflamma- 
tion must be kept down by cooling 
medicines. If there is great pain, so 
as to prevent sleep, 5 grains of Pill 
Soap and Opium, or of the Extract of 
Hyoscyamos, may be given at bed- 
time. Sometimes an Ulcer on the leg 
opens into one of the large veins, and 
a serious loss of blood ensues : in this 
case the limb should be elevated above 
the body until the hemorrhage can be 
stopped by pressure and astringent 
applications. 

In cleansing an Ulcer, too much 
care should not be taken to remove all 
the pus or matter ; it is better to leave 
some of it on, to protect the tender sur- 
face against irritation. If the Ulcer, 
when bandaged, feels hot and painful, 
saturate the bandage with cold water, 
and keep it wet for a time ; a piece of 
oiled silk over all will prevent rapid 
evaporation, and greatly assist in this 
object. It is not always judicious to 
heal an Ulcer too quickly ; if of long 
standing, it is likely to be an outlet 
for morbid matter, which, if retained 
in the system, might cause serious 
fiinctional derangement, if not fatal 
disease, such as apoplexy. 

SOILS. — These painful inflamma- 
tory swellings mostly occur in young 
and vigorous persons, so much so in- 
deed as to be generally looked upon as 
a sign of robust health. Now and 
then, however, we find them breaking 
out upon the weak and delicate; in 
any case, they are symptomatic of 
some derangement of the system, 



96 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



which takes this means of relieving 
itself" of that which is superfluous, or 
dangerous to its internal economy. 
They should be regarded as warnings 
that some change in tiie diet or mode 
of life is necessary to the j^reservation 
of complete health ; those who neglect 
such warnings often suffer the conse- 
quence in an attack of severe illness, 
or an eruption of a more painful and 
dangerous kind. See Carbuncle. 

The seat of the Boil is the true skin 
and the subjacent cellular membrane. 
A small, angry-looking spot on the 
outer skin first appears ; this gradu- 
ally enlarges into a swelling with a 
whitish conical centre, surrounded by 
a hard inflamed base ; sooner or later 
this is sure to suppurate and discharge 
pus and blood, and a fibrous mass 
called a core. Until this latter is 
ejected, the abscess will not heal. It 
often lies deep, and causes great pain 
before coming away. Warm water 
bathing, and poulticing with Lin- 
need Meal, is the proper treatment at 
first ; Eesin Ointment, or Venice Tur- 
pentine, or some other drawing appli- 
cation of an irritating nature, is often 
applied, but it causes unnecessary 
pain, and effects no object that the 
poultice would not. As soon as the 
prominent part of the swelling becomes 
soft, a cut should be made with a knife 
or lancet through the skin beneath 
which the core lies ; this permits the 
escape of the confined matter, and re- 
lieves the pain. The poultices should 
be continued until the core is drawn 
out, soon after which the healing pro- 
cess will commence ; this may be fa- 
cilitated by a dressing of simple oint- 
ment, or pure hog's lard will do. 

Boils and Carbuncles have recently 
been successfuly treated with Opium, 
of the aqueous extract of which a 
thick solution has been painted on any 
suspicious spot ; this forms a coating 
which must be renewed three or four 
times a day : twenty-four hours' ap- 
plication is said to be generally suffi- 
cient to arrest the spread of the in- 
flammation. A plaster composed of 
equal parts of Soap, Opium, and 



Mercury, spread on thick leather, ia 
then placed on the spot, having a 
hole in the centre for the escape of 
any matter ; if painful, a poultice 
must be applied. If, in spite of thia 
treatment, the Boil will have its 
course, strong Nitric Acid is said to 
be the best application, using it freely 
two or three times, taking care to re- 
move the slough before each appli- 
cation, supporting the margin with 
plaster and poulticing freely. Tlie 
beneficial effects of the opium is said 
to depend upon the soothing influence 
which it exerts upon the capillaries, 
small arteries, and nerves ; its imme- 
diate effect is to lessen the throbbing, 
heat, and redness. The use of the 
plaster is to give support to the in- 
flamed vessels, and to protect the sur- 
face from the atmosphere. 

Boils often follow each other in 
rapid succession. They are very pain- 
ful and troublesome, but not in them- 
selves dangerous; they seldom run into 
ulcerations and deep-seated sloughing 
sores unless neglected. Persons who 
are obliged to go about their daily 
avocations with them will do well to 
apply, during the day, a piece of lint 
saturated with Olive Oil, and kept on 
with strapping. For internal treat- 
ment, those of a full habit should 
take 3 or 4 grains of Blue Pill two or 
three times a Aveek, with a Senna 
Draught each morning after ; they 
should also be abstemious in their diet, 
and avoid stimulants. Delicate per- 
sons should take a Compound Rhubarb 
Pill every alternate night, or a draught 
composed of Rhubarb and Magnesia, 
10 grains of each, in Cinnamon Water ; 
these should have generous diet. De- 
coction of Sarsaparilla, J a tumbler- 
ful twice a day, and tepid baths, may 
be of service to such. 

CARBUNCLE is essentially the 
same affection as the boil, but differing 
in magnitude and in its situation. It 
is usually located in the back of the 
neck, or the shoulders, in the interval 
between them, or the loins; a very 
common situation for it is immediately 
below the occiput, on the very top of 



WOUNDS, ETC. 



97 



the neck, where the integument is 
thickest. 

The catises of carbuncle are essen- 
tially similar to those of boils (which 
see) ; external irritation of some kind 
is generally the immediate cause ; al- 
though there must also be a predispo- 
sition to carbuncular inflammation, 
aij^ing from a particular state and 
condition of the system, generally an 
excess of fibrin, or inflammatory, 
matter, in the blood. 

The first symptom of the disease is 
pain, followed by a hard, red swelling ; 
very soon the surface of the tumor 
assumes a livid tint, and a soft, spongy 
feci ; small ulcers form on the skin, 
and, from their numerous orifices, 
which give the surface a sieve-like 
appearance, flows out a thin, pasty dis- 
charge, which is characteristic of the 
disease. These openings quickly break 
into one, and then the discharge thick- 
ens as the dead cellular tissue begins 
to escape ; to enable this to do so 
freely, an incision down to the very base 
of the tumor is made, and then crossed 
by another ; the hemorrhage attendant 
on this is commonly very considerable, 
as well as beneficial, in reducing the 
inflammation. Such is the mode of 
treatment usually adopted in carbuncle: 
Warm Bread or Linseed Meal poultices 
are applied, both before and after the 
cutting ; and, if the bleeding is exces- 
sive. Port Wine, or decoction of Oak 
Bark, with a little spirit, may be used 
to moisten them. The poulticing 
should be changed about every eight 
hours, and continued until the morbid 
matter is all discharged, and the 
wound is nearly filled with healthy 
granulations ; when these have risen 
to the level of the surrounding skin, 
the wound may be dressed with the 
ointment of Nitric Oxide of Mercury, 
or Red Precipitate ointment, as it is 
more commonly called. The constitu- 
tional treatment in this case should 
first be of an antiphlogistic kind; 
aperient, and febrifuge medicines, and 
low diet ; but as soon a* the carbuncle 
has been opened, and the discharge 
becomes copious, the patient's vigor 
7 



must be sustained by good Beef-tea^ 
Wine, and other nourishing condi- 
ments. Sometimes there is great 
prostration of strength, and as much 
stimulant is required as in typhus 
fever ; Bark, Opium, and Ammonia 
are commonly given to relieve the 
pain and arouse the nervous system. 
Persons of a full habit of body are 
those most subject to carbuncles, which 
are frequently fatal if they are situated 
high up in the neck, because they are 
usually attended with inflammation of 
the membranes of the brain. When 
on the back or loins, although fre- 
quently of enormous size, they are not 
so dangerous. 

Burns and Scalds. — There are no 
more frequent, distressing, and danger- 
ous accidents than those which result 
in the above ; they cause great pain, 
often amounting to agony, local in- 
juries of a most serious character, and 
permanent constitutional derange- 
ment, even if death does not immedi- 
ately or quickly ensue. The first rule 
to be observed in the event of the 
clothes catching fire, is to avoid run- 
ning away for assistance, as the motion 
will only fan the flames, and increase 
the evil. Presence of mind in the 
sufferer is rare on such an occasion, 
but the best plan is to lie down and roll 
on the floor, screaming of course for 
assistance. Whoever comes should 
snatch up a rug, or piece of carpet, or 
other woollen article, and envelop the 
person in it ; this will be sure to 
extinguish the flame, then cut the 
clothing away from the burnt parts, 
taking care to use no violence where it 
adheres, nor to break any blisters 
which may be raised. The great ob- 
ject is now to exclude the air from the 
blistered or raw surfaces ; it is usual to 
cover them with flour and then wrap 
them in wadding or cotton wool. A 
good application is either of the above 
substances saturated in Limewater 
and Linseed Oil, equal parts mixed : 
this is extremely cool and soothing, 
and it greatly assists the healing oper- 
ation : it should not be disturbed for 
some days, unless the discharge should 



98 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



be great, and the wounds painful, in 
which case a fresh application of the 
same should be prepared, and put on 
immediately on the removal of the 
other. Whiskey, Brandy, or some 
other strong spirits, and even Turpen- 
tine, are recommended by some ; but 
we question if they are so efficacious 
as the above remedies, and the anguish 
which they cause at first is a serious 
objection to their use. The Wadding 
or Cotton Wool covering is sometimes 
applied quite dry, with good effect ; 
and where the tissues are not deeply 
or extensively injured, a lotion com- 
posed of an ounce and a half of Vine- 
gar to a pint of Water is a good appli- 
cation, as is also a saturated solution 
of Carbonate of Soda. The flour 
dredging is that which is the most 
readily available, and it is perhaps as 
good as any ; it should be applied im- 
mediately, and repeated as often as 
moisture is perceived issuing through 
the crust which it forms over the burnt 
parts ; if these have fresh sweet oil 
brushed over them with a feather, pre- 
vious to the application of the flour, it 
will adhere better. That which is 
most to be apprehended in severe 
burns is the great constitutional de- 
pression which often follows the 
excitement and severe pain ; especially 
is this the case with children, and 
when the seat of this injury is the 
chest or abdomen, or other vital part ; 
hence the effects should be closely 
watched, and stimulants administered, 
if there are such symptoms as shiver- 
ing, pallor of countenance, sinking of 
the pulse, or coldness of the extremi- 
ties : Ammonia, Wine, or Spirits, 
must then be given in doses sufficient 
to arouse the failing powers, without 
too much exciting the brain. If there 
is excessive pain, a slight opiate should 
be administered to allay the irritation 
of the nervous system, which, however, 
frequently receives so severe a shock 
as to lose its sensibility for a time ; 
and when this is the case there is 
great reason to apprehend a fatal 
result. A burn, if properly treated, and 
unless very severe, will generally do 



well, and require little aftei-dressine; 
but if the blisters are suffered to break, 
and the true skin beneath becomes in- 
flamed by exposure, matter will be 
secreted, and troublesome ulcerations 
formed : Bread- and-water poulticing 
will be the best treatment in this case, 
with Goulard Lotion, if there is much 
inflammation, or an ointment com- 
posed of Extract of Goulard, 1 dram, 
mixed with 1 ounce of fresh lard ; this 
should be applied spread on soft 
linen. 

When the burn is deep, after the flour 
has been on for some days, poultices 
as above should be applied until the 
coating of flour all comes away, and 
the wound looks clean and clear; 
after w'hich the simple water dressing 
will be best, and when nearly healed 
the Goulard Ointment as above. 

When parts immediately contagious 
are involved in the burn, care must be 
taken to interpose dressings, or they 
may become permanently united. 

After the more immediate donstitu- 
tional effects of a severe burn have 
passed off, it will be necessary to be 
careful as to the patient's diet ; which 
should be sufficiently nourishing and 
stimulative, especially while discharge 
is going on ; taking care, however, to 
reduce it if febrile symptoms should 
set in. So constantly are these painful 
accidents occurring, and so frequently 
does it happen that the care of a medi- 
cal man cannot be obtained for them, 
that it behooves all heads of families 
to make themselves acquainted with 
the best remedial measures. When 
they are very severe, every possible 
effort should be made to obtain medi- 
cal aid ; if they are but slight, this 
may well be done without. It should 
be borne in mind that the principal 
aims in the treatment of such cases are, 
first, the protection of the injured parts 
from atmospheric influence ; secondly, 
to keep down inflammatory action, 
both local and constitutional ; and 
thirdly, to soothe the nervous irritation 
which may arise, and to sustain the 
system should too great depression 
take place. 



WOUroS AND FRACTURES. 

Injuries by Laceration, Bruising and Puncture — SymptOxMS which 
Betoken Danger — Dislocation Described — A Treatise on Sprains, 
Rupture and Inflammation — The Preservation op Eyesight. 



WOUNDS. — A recent solution ot 
continuity in any soft part of the body, 
occasioned suddenly by external 
causes, and generally attended with 
hsemorrhage at first, is a wound. It 
may be one or the other of six kinds. 
1st, an Incised Wound, made by a sharp 
instrument, effecting a simple division 
of the fibres. 2d, a Lacerated Wound, 
one in which the fibres, instead of being 
cleanly divided by a sharp instrument, 
are torn asunder by violence ; the edges 
in this case are not straight, but jagged 
and uneven. 3d, a Contused Wound, 
one made by a violent blow from some 
blunt instrument, or unyielding sur- 
face. This resembles the preceding. 
4th, a Ptmctured Wound, one made 
with a narrow-pointed instrument, as 
a sword or bayonet. 5th, a Poisoned 
Wound, such as the bite of a viper, 
mad dog, etc., or a slip of the lancet in 
dissecting bodies in a state of decom- 
position. 6th, Gunshot Wound, one 
caused by a bullet, or other hard sub- 
Btance, propelled from a musket. 

The treatment of Wounds must, of 
course, depend very much upon their 
character. If it be a clean cut or 
chop, we should first stanch the blood, 
by bathing it with cold water, cleaning 
away any extraneous matter with a 
soft sponge; then bring the edges of 
the Wound together so that they shall 
unite evenly, and fix them so, with 
strips of adhesive plaster; a space 
being left between each slip for the 
escape of any blood or matter which 
may form. Should the Wound be of 
any great magnitude, so that the edges 
gape when unconfined, they should be 



drawn together by means of two or 
three stitches ; in making which, a 
threaded needle (a curved one) should 
first be passed through the flesh, in- 
wards, about a ^ of an inch from tho 
edge of the Wound, then on the other 
side outwards ; the ends of the thread 
are then to be brought together and 
tied tightly. The stitches should be 
an inch or more apart, and must not 
be drawn or dragged together with 
great force, or they may cut through 
the parts, nor must they remain in 
too long, or they may cause irritation : 
from two to four days will be sufficient 
for them to answer every useful pur- 
pose ; between them strips of adhesive 
plaster should be placed, and if a limb, 
a roller bandage should cover the 
whole. If the plaster is not readily 
procurable, a piece of linen may be 
bound round, and smeared with white 
of egg. Should the Wound become 
painful and throb, and the patient feel 
chilly and uneasy, it is likely that 
there is matter forming which requires 
a way of escape. In this case remove 
the plaster by washing it with a sponge 
dipped in warm water ; then either 
put on a warm poultice, or lint, dipped 
or saturated with warm water, with a 
piece of oil skin over it, to prevant 
rapid evaporation. This mode of op- 
eration should be continued until paiu 
and inflammation cease, and nothing 
but healthy pus is discharged. If any, 
simple strapping with adhesive plaster 
will then do. 

A stab which goes deep is more diffi- 
cult to heal than a surface incision, 
becausCi even if it does not injure an 
99 



too 



YOU ask! — i'll tell! 



importanl organ, it may lead to the 
formation of matter amid the under 
tissues, when the wound is closed at the 
top, and for this a way of escape must 
be made. 

A Lacerated Wound caused by a 
hook or blunt instrument, should be 
first sponged clean, the torn portions 
laid in their natural positions as nearly 
as possible ; then the edges of the 
Wound brought together by strips of 
sticking-plaster, putting over the whole 
a thick layer of lint dipped in cold 
water, and bandaging just light enough 
to keep the dressing secure ; the lint 
should be kept moist. 

In Bruised Wounds there is gen- 
erally more sloughing of the injured 
parts; to remove which, warm poul- 
tices are necessary, otherwise they may 
be treated like clean cuts. When the 
sloughing is over, and healthy granu- 
lations begin to form, apply water 
dressing, and adhesive plaster, as 
above. 

Punctured Wounds, from thorns 
or splinters, often lead to serious re- 
sults. If the offending substance can 
be drawn out, by means of a needle, 
or a pair of tweezers, it should be 
done ; if not, poultices will assist in 
removing it, and keeping down the 
inflammation, which is sure to arise 
from its presence among the tissues. 
There will most likely be a small ab- 
scess formed ; and s"hen this is opened, 
and the matter discharged, the thorn 
or splinter will most probably come 
with it, or may be removed. Some- 
times from this apparently slight cause 
Lock-jaw may follow, or an irritative 
fever as the result of the inflammatory 
action, the treatment must be based 
upon the supervening symptoms, gen- 
erally leeches, active aperients, and the 
same as that for inflammation will be 
required. 

Wounds from a Fish, or Crochet 
Hook, are not generally very difficult 
to heal unless the system is in an un- 
healthy condition, in which case a 
mere scratch will sufl[ice to set up in- 
flammatory action ; the great difficulty 
is the first, that of extracting the in- 



strument, which_ on account of iia 
barbed point, cannot be drawn out in 
the ordinary way : a slight incision will, 
therefore, be necessary ; if the hook 
has no handle, or one that can be taken 
or cut off, the best plan is to depress 
the blunt end so as to cause the barbed 
point to penetrate the integument up- 
wards, and make its way out ; then 
take firmly hold upon the point, 
and through the flesh opening made 
by it draw out the whole of the 
hook ; if this cannot be done, a slight 
cut, as far as the point has penetrated, 
will be necessary ; and then a little 
careful manipulation will free the 
hook ; afterwards strapping and cold 
water dressing should be applied, or a 
poultice, if there is much inflamma- 
tion. 

For Wounds and Lacerations of 
the Scalp. — Surgeons are now pretty 
generally assured that the best treat- 
ment is to free the torn ^iece from dirt 
or foreign bodies, and restore it as 
quickly as possible to its natural situa- 
tion, no cutting away of any part (as 
practiced formerly) is now advised, 
and sewing is scarcely ever necessary ; 
let the hair be cut or shaved off round 
the wound, draw the edges together 
with strips of adhesive plaster, and 
apply over it cold water dressing. 

POISONING. — A. Poison is a sub- 
stance which, when taken internally, 
is capable of destroying life without 
acting mechanically on the system. 

In apoplexy, epilepsy, some dis- 
eases of the heart and brain, and rup- 
ture or distension of the stomach, we 
have the same symptoms as those of 
narcotic poisoning. It behooves us, 
therefore, to make close inquiry into 
the cause of the dangerous symptoms, 
and not adopt remedial measures too 
hastily, although we know that prompt- 
itude in adopting the right measures 
is of vital importance. Hence we see 
how desirable it is that one skilled in 
the diagnosis of disease should be at 
once summoned in a case of suspected 
poisoning ; if the aid of such cannot 
be procured at once, it is better to 
adopt such means as a limited knowl- 



WOUNDS, ETC. 



101 



edge will suggest than to let the pa- 
tient perish for want of help. It is 
popularly believed that there are cer- 
tain antidotes for particular Poisons, 
but this is not the case ; there are, 
therefore, three great principles to 
be kept in view all through the course 
of treatment : 1st, to remove the poi- 
sonous matter from the stomach as 
soon as possible ; 2d, to protect the 
coats of the stomach against the action 
of the Poison, by involving it in some 
viscid substance ; 3d, to act upon the 
substance chemically so as to effect a 
change in its nature — to render it in- 
ert or innoxious. 

Treatment. — Send for a physician 
immediately ; if a stomach-pump is at 
hand, use it, if not, give an emetic of 
Sulphate of Zinc, or take Warm Water, 
with Mustard in it ; or tickle the throat 
with a feather, or in some way cause 
vomiting ; do not let the patient sleep 
for twelve hours after taking Poison, 
even if you have to use violent meas- 
ures to keep him awake. When the 
physician arrives he will direct the 
treatment. 

FRACTURE. — One of the com- 
monest accidents, to which all are lia- 
ble, is a fracture of one or other of the 
bones, which is often produced by a 
slight fall, or some other trifling acci- 
dent, especially in very cold weather, 
when the bones are more brittle than 
at other times; and yet very heavy 
falls frequently occur without a frac- 
ture of any part of the osseous system, 
that being the result of some sudden 
concussion, or violent strain upon a 
part of the frame which is unable to 
bear it, consequently snaps short off; 
breaking more longitudinally, gener- 
ally, in this case than in splinters. 
According as a fracture has a trans- 
verse, longitudinal, or oblique direction, 
in relation to the axis of the bone, it 
is distinguished by these terms. It is 
also called Simple when the bone only 
is divided, without external wound; 
Compound, when there is the same 
kind of injury, with laceration of the 
integuments. When Fractures occur 
in, or near, the middle of the long 



bones, such as those of the leg, thigh, 
arm or forearm, they are readily de- 
tected, even by the eye and hand of 
one unskilled in anatomy : there is 
always great pain and loss of power 
over the portion of the limb below the 
Fracture, which will hang loosely, and 
may be moved in almost any direc- 
tion, without reference to the proper 
action of the joints ; the broken ends 
of the bone, too, will be quite percep- 
tible to the feel, and there will be a 
grating sound when they are moved 
about. In many parts, however, as 
near the joints, and where there is 
much muscle, the symptoms are not so 
plainly marked, and it is often ex- 
tremely difficult for even a surgeon to 
make out the exact position of a Frac- 
ture, even if he has sufficient assur- 
ance that such is the nature of the in 
jury ; and this difficulty is increased 
by the swollen and inflamed state of 
the parts. 

The desirability of obtaining profes- 
sional assistance in all cases where 
there is a likelihood of a Fracture 
having taken place, must be so evi- 
dent to our readers, that we need 
scarcely insist on it. 

DISLOCATION is the removal of 
the articulating portion of a bone from 
that surface to which it is naturally 
connected. This removal is gener- 
ally effected by violence, and the pri- 
mary object of remedial measures is to 
bring the point of articulation, or 
union, back to its natural position. 
When the muscles are only extended, 
and there is no laceration, or sever- 
ance of a ligament, and no fracture of 
either of the bones, there is little diffi- 
culty in reducing common disloca- 
tions, if taken in hand shortly after 
their occurrence ; but if the bones are 
suffered to remain long displaced, so 
that the muscles become accustomed, 
as it were, to their new position, there 
is sure to be permanent distortion, and 
most likely lameness of some kind. 
The displaced bone, at its new point' 
of contact with other bones, forms a 
connection therewith, and finds there 
a basis for its future movements and 



102 



YOU ask! — I LL, tell! 



operations, it requiring as much force 
to remove it from thence as it did 
from its more natural position. 

Dislocations may be either com- 
plete or incomplete ; in the first, 
the articular surfaces remain partially 
in contact, which can only occur in 
the foot, knee, and ankle ; in the last, 
there is an entire separation ; it is 
simple when there is no wound com- 
municating with the joint, and ex- 
ternally with the air, and it is com- 
pound when there is such a wound. 

Nearly all the bones of the human 
body are liable to displacement, but 
some are much more so than others — 
such are those of the hip, the ankle, the 
shoulder, the elbow, the lower jaw, the 
fingers, and toes, and in these joints 
the detection of the dislocation is tol- 
erably easy, even to the unprofessional 
person ; but with many other parts it 
is extremely difficult of detection; 
therefore, a surgeon should always be 
called in when an accident has oc- 
curred in which there is likely to be 
such a result. 

The symptoms of a dislocation hav- 
ing taken place, are loss of power in 
the limb or member, which becomes 
fixed in one position, any attempt to 
move it causing extreme agony ; there 
is also a sensation of numbness in the 
part, and the patient feels sick and 
faint, probably on account of the 
severe pain; an examination of the 
joint also will show a deformity. 

Treatment. — It is useless in such a 
case to apply fomentations or stimu- 
lant liniments ; attempts should at 
once be made to " reduce " the Dislo- 
cation, as it is called ; until this is done 
there will be no relief for the patient, 
and the longer it is delayed the more 
difficult will the operation be, because 
the muscles, which are at first relaxed 
by being drawn out so far as to allow 
the joint to slip out of its socket, or 
from its point of articulation, resume 
their former rigidity, and exert a 
greater power in opposition to the ef- 
forts of the operator. 

Whenever there is a doubt as to the 
nature of the injury which has hap- 



pened, it is always best to wai^ the ar- 
rival of a surgeon before making any 
violent efforts to reduce what is sup- 
posed to be merely a Dislocation, but 
may in reality be that in combination 
with a fracture, or an injury of quite 
another kind; but when the case is 
tolerably clear, no time should be lost 
in effecting the reduction. This may 
be done by drawing down the limb or 
members until the ends of the dislo- 
cated joints are brought as nearly to- 
gether as possible ; then if the pressure 
is relaxed, the muscles will generally 
draw them into their proper position, 
and hold them there ; care should be 
taken to keep the upper bone of the 
two which it is desired to connect 
firmly fixed, so that in pulling the 
lower, the downward or outward, as the 
case may be, does not follow it, and so 
prevent the necessary extension of the 
muscles. If the Dislocation is in the 
humerus, or shoulder, a very common 
part, pass a sheet or strong towel round 
the body of the patieat, and fasten the 
ends to a staple in the wall, or some 
other fixed support; then take another 
towel, and making what is called a 
" clove-hitch," slip it over the elbow, 
draw it tight, and give the ends to two 
or three strong assistants, who must 
pull gently, yet firmly and steadily, 
for some minutes, while the operator, 
with his knee beneath the armpit, en- 
deavors, by raising and depressing the 
bone as it is drawn out, to direct it so 
that, when it has attained a point of 
extension beyond the edge of the 
socket from which it has been dis- 
placed, it will slip back into it. A dis- 
location of the shoulder may be either 
forwards or backwards ; although the 
latter is a rare case, it may be known 
by the swelling at the shoulder-blade, 
the flatness of the outside, and in- 
capacity of movement ; the reduction 
may be effected in the same way as 
above described. After it is accom- 
plished, it is most prudent, in either 
case, to keep the arm confined to the 
side for some days by means of a band- 
age, as it may be thrown out again by 
the slightest attempt to use the limb 



WOUNDS, ETC. 



103 



Dislocation of the Collar Bone 

may occur at either end, but it is diffi- 
cult for a non-professional man to de- 
tect this, and if such an injury is sus- 
pected, it is best to summon surgical 
aid, compressing the parts until it ar- 
rives with a crossed bandage. This 
accident, however skilfully treated, 
usually results in some permanent de- 
formity. 

Dislocations of the Elbow are the 
most difficult to understand and to 
reduce of any, on account of the 
complication of joints at that part, 
where, it must be remembered, three 
bones meet, viz., the arm-bone, and the 
two bones of the forearm, the second 
of which may be dislocated by itself, 
backwards or forwards, and the last 
only backwards, carrying the radius 
with it ; two lateral displacements of 
the bones of the forearm also some- 
times occur, and lastly, and rarely, a 
displacement in which the cartilaginous 
surface of the humerus rests between 
the radius and ulna. It must be evi- 
dent that a thorough knowledge of the 
anatomy of the parts is required for 
the reduction of either of these, there- 
fore we need not enter into a descrip- 
tion of the means to be used. 

Dislocation of the Spine is the 
most serious that can happen ; in this 
case, death is sure to ensue, audit usu- 
ally takes place soon after the accident, 
which happily is of very rare occur- 
rence ; but little can be done to remedy 
this mischief, and that little must be 
under the direction of the professional 
advisor. 

Dislocation of the Ribs sometimes, 
though rarely, takes place, and this is 
very difficult of detection ; the treat- 
ment is the same as that of a Fracture. 

Dislocation of the Pelvic Bones 
and Os Coccygis. — These are both of 
extremely rare occurrence, immense 
force being required to effect either of 
them ; they cannot be treated by other 
than a surgeon, and have generally a 
fatal result. 

Dislocations of the Wrist Joints 
are generally caused by the hand re- 
ceiving the weight of a heavy fall ; 



it may be of three kinds, all of which 
may be distinguished from a sprain 
by the unnatural bony projections, 
either in the front or back, as the case 
may be, in contradistinction to the 
soft swelling only, which is set up by 
the latter. The mode of reduction is 
this : let the patient's arm be grasped 
firmly, just above the elbow, by an as- 
sistant, while the operator, supporting 
the forearm with his left hand, takes 
hold of the patient's hand with his 
right, and the two exerting their force 
in opposite directions, produce the ex- 
tension necessary to replace the joints 
in their natural position. After the 
reduction a roller bandage should be 
applied round the wrist, and a splint 
bound before and behind the forearm, 
passing on either side down as far as 
the metacarpal bones. 

Dislocations of the Fingers and 
Toes are of rare occurrence, and when 
they do happen, it is generally be- 
tween the first and second joints ; they 
may be easily known by the projection 
of the dislocated bones, and reduced 
without much difficulty, if done soon 
after the accident ; the wrist, during 
the operation, should have a slight for- 
ward inclination given to it; this will 
relax the flexor muscles. 

Dislocation of the Jaw. — A blow 
upon the chin when the mouth is 
opened widely, will sometimes cause 
this, as will yawning or gaping very 
deeply ; by it the patient is placed in 
a very awkward position, with his 
mouth set wide open, and no power to 
close it or to articulate words. This 
kind of dislocation may be either 
complete or partial ; in the latter case 
the mouth is not opened so widely as 
in the former, and it may be known 
by the chin being thrown on one side, 
opposite to that of the displacement. 
There is not usually much difficulty in 
reducing a dislocation of the lower 
jaw — the upper cannot be dislocated ; 
the plan is to wrap a handkerchief round 
each thumb, and placing them in the 
inner angles of the jaw, the coronoid 
processes, as thej' are termed, endeavor,, 
by foi cing it backwar Is and downwards^ 



104 



YOU ask! — I'l.L tell! 



to restore it to its proper position. 
Success will generally attend the 
effort, if only a moderate degree of 
force be used, especially if it be by a 
skilful hand. Some put a transverse 
piece of wood into the patient's mouth 
to serve the purpose of a lever, but this 
is a rough method of operating, and 
no really skilful surgeons resort to it. 

BRUISES. — Make cold applica- 
tions immediately: ice, cold iron, or 
cold water will do ; this, if applied 
immediately, will prevent discolora- 
tions of the skin. After the inflam- 
mation has subsided, apply liniments 
with the hand, and gentle friction. 

Sprains or Strains is an accident 
very likely to occur, especially in the 
wrist and ankle bones, and is produc- 
tive of extreme pain, sometimes causing 
faiutness and vomiting. There is, 
generally, effusion of blood beneath 
the enlargements, hence the discolor- 
ation of them, observable in these 
cases ; commonly, also, there is rapid 
swelling, which renders it difficult to 
ascertain whether a discoloration or 
fracture has not taken place ; there- 
fore, if the injury is severe, a surgeon 
should be consulted. Not only are 
Sprains excessively painful at the time 
of their occurrence, but they are likely 
to lead to permanent injury, especially 
if neglected, and in this case they are 
more difficult to cure than either dis- 
locations or fractures. Dr. South 
says : — "It would be better to break 
a limb than sprain a joint, the former, 
in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, 
being cured in the course of a few 
weeks, if the skin has not been broken, 
while the effects of the latter may, at 
best, remain for weeks or months, as 
weakness or stiffness of the joint." 

In the treatment of Sprains, perfect 
rest of the injured part is essential. 
We do not mean to say that they are 
never cured without this, but never so 
speedily and completely ; and, without 
it, there is always great danger of bad 
after-consequences ; therefore, the pa- 
tient, as soon as it has been ascer- 
tained that there is nothing more than 
a Sprain, should take to his couch or 



sofa, and remain perfectly quiescent, 
especially if the injury is in the ankle 
or knee, or any part of the leg, in 
which case the limb should be kept in 
a horizontal position, with warm moist 
flannels applied to the joint by day, and 
a warm bread-and-water j^oultice at 
night ; should this not reduce the 
swelling and subdue the pain in the 
course of twenty-four hours, leeches 
may be applied and repeated two or 
three times if required. When the 
tenderness has, in a measure, subsided, 
a piece of lint dipped in vinegar, or 
diluted acetic acid, may be laid over 
the part; this will, probably, bring 
out a pustular eruption of the skin, 
and divert the low inflammation from 
the ligaments, at a time when stimu- 
lating friction could not be borne. 
When the pain has entirely ceased, 
and the joint has resumed its usual 
appearance, great caution is necessary 
in using it, as irreparable mischief 
often results from doing so too much 
or too early. If it continues swollen, 
it should be bound up with straps of 
soap plaster, or a roller. But before 
binding, plenty of friction, with Soap 
Liniment and Turpentine, should be 
tried, and a stream of cold water pour- 
ed from a considerable height. 

If the injury is in the elbow or 
wrist-joint, the arm should be sus- 
tained in a sling, and never suffered 
to hang down. Persons of full habit 
will require active purgatives, espe- 
cially if the inflammation runs high ; 
and if the pain is very severe, so as to 
prevent sleep, an opiate may be taken 
at bedtime; 10 grains of Dover's Pow- 
der is, perhaps, the best, or 5 grains 
of Extract of Hyoscyamus, if Opium 
cannot be taken. 

WART. — This is an excrescence 
from the cutis or outer skin, or a horny 
tumor formed upon it ; it is not gener- 
ally so painful as it is disagreeable and 
unsightly, coming nearly always upon 
the hands, or some other conspicuous 
place. The best treatment is to touch 
it with some Caustic, or Escharotic. 
Nitrate of Silver is the most effectual, 
but this turns the skin black, which is, 



CORNS AND BUNIONS. 



105 



in many cases, very objectionable. 
Caustic Potash will answer the pur- 
pose, so will Acetic Acid, if of extra 
strength, and Nitric Acid. The ap- 
plication should be made daily, and 
the decayed part pared off, or cut with 
scissors. If it can be conveniently 
done, a ligature of silk tied tightly 
round the base of the Wart will cause 
it to decay, and eventually drop off. 
Some of the acrid vegetable juices, such 
as those of Celandine and Spurge, are 
popularly used as a cure for Warts. 

CORNS. — There are few persons 
who have not suffered from these 
troublesome excrescences, which arise 
from a thickened state of the outer, 
or scarf skin, caused generally by the 
pressure or friction of tight, or ill- 
fitting shoes ; the sensible, that is the 
true skin, feeling the pressure, endea- 
vors to protect itself by throwing up a 
sort of defence, which assumes a coni- 
cal form, having the apex within 
pressing upon the tender skin, and 
often causing intolerable pain, and 
sometimes inflammation to such an 
extent as to form an abscess at the 
point. 

In the treatment of Corns, the first 
object should be to remove the exciting 
cause ; comfortable, well-fitting boots 
or shoes should be substituted for 
those of an opposite character, and the 
Corn, after the foot has been soaked 
in warm water, to soften it, should be 
pared carefully away, particular care 
being taken not to wound the more 
sensitive part. When the outer sur- 
face is removed, there will be perceived 
in the centre a small white spot, which 
should be carefully dug out with a 
pointed knife or pair of scissors. 
When this too is removed, cover the 
seat of the Corn with a small circu- 
lar piece of thick soft leather spread 
with Soap or Diachylon plaster, leav- 
ing a small hole in the centre, cor- 
responding with that from whence 
the root of the Corn has been taken. 
Should any of this latter remain so as 
to cause irritation, apply to it, every 
second or third day, a piece of Lunar 
Caustic, scraped to a point, and slightly 



moistened. Some persons apply strong 
Acetic, or other acid ; but this is not 
so effectual, and more likely to cause 
inflammation, which will be best al- 
layed by a warm poultice of bread 
crumbs, moistened with Goulard 
Water, the foot being held up as much 
as possible, and the system kept in a 
cool state with saline aperients, etc. 

Soft Corns, which form chiefly be- 
tween the toes, are often very pain- 
ful and troublesome ; let them be cut 
away as close as possible with a pair 
of scissors, and then dressed with raga 
wet with Goulard Water, or a solution 
of Sugar of Lead. Ivy leaves form, for 
such, a cool pleasant protection from 
friction ; they should be put on fresh 
every day. 

Beneath the corner of the nail of the 
great toe a peculiar kind of Corn some- 
times occurs ; it should be cut, or 
scraped out with the finger-nail, and 
Caustic applied as above directed. 
Mere callosities of the skin on the 
hands and fingers are not Corns, al- 
though often called so ; they have no 
roots and are not painful, therefore it 
is best not to interfere with them, for 
if removed others would come in theii 
places, while the friction is kept up, in 
which thev originate. 

BUNIONS. — This painful and an- 
noying kind of swelling is the result 
of inflammation of a small bursa, 
situated just over the joint, at the ball 
of the great toe ; the pressure of tight 
shoes is generally the exciting cause, 
and all such pressure should be at 
once removed. During the first stages, 
one or two leeches should be applied 
to the swelling, with warm fomenta- 
tions and bread poultices. A perma- 
nent enlargement of the part is 
generally the result, and this must be 
studied in taking measure for the boot. 
An application of Caustic will some- 
times reduce it considerably ; it should 
be kept covered with Burgundy Pitch, 
or Soap Plaster, spread upon soft 
leather, or a circular piece of the fun- 
gus called German Tinder. 

Ingrowing Toe-nail. — There is 
usually a fungoid growth in and about 



106 



YOU ask! — i'll tell! 



the part of the toe where the nail 
enters, and this must be destroj'ed by 
the free application of Caustic ; then, 
if the nail be scraped thin, the edge 
may probably be lifted out, so that a 
small piece of scraped lint, or carded 
cotton, can be placed under, and pre- 
vent its penetrating again, so as to ir- 
ritate and keep up the inflammation. 
Most surgeons recommend the entire 
removal of the nail, or of that half of 
it to which the ingrowing edge belongs, 
but a cure can often be effected without 
this. Apply a poultice of Slippery Elm, 
mixed with a little weak lye ; on re- 
moving the poultice, press a little lint 
under the edge of the nail, repeating 
this daily, and cut off the nail when so 
raised with a sharp knife, keeping 
some lint under the edge of the nail 
until the toe is healed. Then, to prevent 
a recurrence, scrape the nail quite 
thin in the middle, or cut a notch the 
shape of a saw-tooth in the middle of 
the nail, which will then become nar- 
rower by contraction, and thus free 
itself from the flesh. 

CHILBLAINS.— An inflammatory 
affection of the skin, generally con- 
fined to the extremities, and especially 
the fingers and toes. Exposure to 
sudden alternations of heat and cold 
usually give rise to these troublesome 
visitations, which are rather character- 
ized by itching and irritation than 
pain. Persons of scrofulous habit and 
languid circulation, are most subject 
to them, as are children and aged per- 
sons. It is a popular fallacy, that to 
keep the surface of the skin in a state 
of unnatural warmth, by hot bottles 
and woollen socks by night, and fur 
linings and feet warmers by day, is 
the best way to prevent Chilblains; 
but this only serves to keep up a con- 
stant perspiration, and so weakens the 
tone of the system, and increases the 
liability to them. A nightly foot-bath 
of cold, or for aged persons of tepid 
salt and water, with plenty of friction 
with a rough towel, and exercise dur- 
ing the day, will be most likely to 
keep Chilblains from the feet ; and for 
the hands, a careful rubbing so as to 



get them thoroughly dry after every 
washing or dipping in water, and an 
avoidance of all unnecessary exposure 
to severe cold, are the best preventive 
measures. It is a good plan to have a 
pan of oatmeal always at hand, and to 
rub them well over with that after 
they have been wetted and wiped as 
dry as possible ; this will absorb any 
moisture left by the towel, and have a 
softening and cooling effect. 

Should Chilblains come, as some- 
times they will, in spite of all precau- 
tions, let them be gently rubbed every 
night and morning with some stimu- 
lant application. Alcohol, Brandy. 
Spirits of Turpentine, or Camphorated 
Spirits of Wine, are all good for this 
purpose; but the application which 
we have found most efficacious is a 
lotion made of Alum and Sulphate of 
Zinc : 2 drams of each to half a pint 
of water, rubbed in warm ; it may be 
made more stimulating by the addi- 
tion of 1 ounce of Camphorated Spir- 
its. When the Chilblains are broken, 
there must be a different course of 
treatment ; the ulcers formed are often 
diflicult to heal, especially in weakly 
and ill-conditioned persons ; there is 
generally a great deal of inflammation,, 
which must be subdued by means of 
bread - and - water poultices applied 
cold, and afterwards by cooling oint- 
ments, such as the Cerate of Acetate 
of Lead, or Spermaceti Ointment, with 
40 drops of Extract of Goulard added 
to the ounce; should there be a dis- 
jwsition to form proud flesh, the Oint- 
ment of Red Precipitate should be 
used. 

CANCER is a malignant disease — 
one of the most fearful with which 
medical science has to contend. It has 
two principal forms of development, 
called hard and soft. All parts of the 
skin are liable to its attacks, but those 
which appear to be more so are, the 
integuments of the face, the female 
breast, the uterus, and the organs of 
generation in both sexes. It some- 
times affects the hands, and occasion- 
ally, from certain local causes, the 
male scrotum. When Cancer attacks 



CANCER. 



107 



the face, or any exposed part, it com- 
monly begins with a small indurated 
spot, resembling a tubercle or wart; 
there is no appearance of inflamma- 
tion, nor is there particular sensitive- 
ness. This condition of things often 
continues for a very considerable time 
— sooner or later, however, ulceration 
sets in, and although it probably is 
long before it penetrates deeply, there 
may be matter secreted, which drying, 
forms a scab over the seat of the 
disease. By-and-by, sharp, shooting 
pains will be felt, the intervals be- 
tween them, at first long, diminishing 
by degrees, until they become almost 
constant. There is a gradual, although 
slow, enlargement of the tumor, which 
is at first movable, but becomes after- 
wards attached to the skin and adja- 
cent tissues; the ulceration spreads 
and deepens, and eventually becomes 
an open sore, with thick, hard, jagged 
edges, and a soft centre, eaten, as it 
were, into irregular hollows; the dis- 
charge is thin, bloody, and irritating 
to the surrounding parts ; there is in- 
flammation and hardening of the ab- 
Borbent glands about the seat of dis- 
ease, and the whole of the tissues 
appear to be invaded by a cartilagi- 
nous kind of growth, which spreads 
among and through them, like the 
creeping roots of some parasitic plant. 
It sometimes happens that there is an 
extensive sloughing of the whole dis- 
eased mass, which comes away, leaving 
a healthy wound, which heals by gran- 
ulations, and happy is it for the 
patient when such is the case. Most 
commonly the disease creeps on like a 
secret miner, investing the very citadel 
of life, the heart, if it be situated near 
it, or some other vital organ, and after 
a term of, it may be years, the patient 
sinks exhausted by the pain and con- 
tinual drain upon the system. 

We have here briefly traced one of 
the forms in which cancerous disease 
is developed, proceeding as we have 
seen from scirrhous, or occult, to open, 
or true Cancer, ae it is sometimes 
called: the first stage is distinguished 
by induration, coldness, insensibility, 



and deficiency of color, all indicating 
a low state of vitality; the charac- 
teristics of the second stage or condi- 
tion are tenderness, soreness, presence 
of color, often approaching to a purple 
tint, bloody and serous discharge, cut- 
ting and throbbing pain, evidences of 
activity and progression. 

Although mostly confined to the 
glands and to certain parts, as the 
female breast and womb, the stomachy 
the liver, and the testicles, yet there 
are few organs or tissues of the body 
which may not become the seat of this 
truly malignant disease ; thus we find 
it sometimes seizing on the brain, the 
eye, the lip, the cheek, the nose, or the 
tongue, and it may perhaps have made 
considerable progress before its pres- 
ence is suspected, coming like a mere 
pimple or hardening of the skin. 
Those attacked by it are mostly beyond 
thirty years of age, and are frequently 
persons of a scrofulous habit; there 
can be no doubt that it sometimes pro- 
ceeds from hereditary taint; that it 
has been produced by contact, al- 
though it can scarcely be called a con- 
tagious disease. It may be excited 
into activity by the sudden application 
of cold, or by a blow, or by great 
anxiety or trouble of mind. Some 
irritating substances seem to have the 
power of producing it ; soot certainly 
does, hence the prevalence in sweeps 
of Cancer of the Scrotum, of which 
we shall presently speak more fully. 
Women are more subject to it than 
men, and married more than single 
women ; statistics completely refuting 
the theory that celibacy favors the 
development of the disease, which 
most usually takes place about the 
time when the menstrual discharge 
ceases, as though the healthy balance 
of the system had been hitherto kept 
up by this periodic discharge, and was 
now destroyed. 

With regard to the often mooted 
question. Is Cancer curable? although 
quacks and empirics may declare that 
it is, true science makes no such posi- 
tive assertion. Quackery says, — it 
can be cured without the knife; but 



108 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



this we do not believe, and so rarely 
with, that the exception but strength- 
ens the rule. Are palliative measures 
then all that should be resorted to? 
our readers would ask : nay, there is a 
chance of preserving life, which is 
dear to all, for some years at all events ; 
therefore, if circumstances admit of it, 
and the patient is desirous that it 
should be so, let the trial be made, and 
made as it only can be, by the aid of 
the highest surgical skill. 

Considerable difference of opinion 
exists as to the treatment of persons 
suffering under this disease. While 
some would keep them on a diet barely 
suflBcient to support life, others, among 
whom is Sir Astley Cooper, say that a 
good nourishing diet is required ; and 
this would seem to be the more rational 
course, certainly so in the later stages, 
when the free discharge and constant 
pain wear out the strength and reduce 
the system ; stimulants, of course, 
must be avoided as much as possible, 
especially those of an alcoholic nature. 
The above authority does not believe 
in the possibility of curing Scirrhous 
Cancer ; all applications and medicines 
he considers therefore as merely pal- 
liatives, and this is the view taken of 
them by most really scientific men. 
It will be evident, therefore, that the 
avoidance of all which may tend to 
excite the disease to activity is a para- 
mount object, for the attainment of 
which, perfect rest of body and mind, 
as far as this is compatible with a due 
performance ofthe functions of vitality, 
should be enjoined ; the biliary and 
other secretions are to be carefully 
watched, and such medicines admin- 
istered as may be necessary to keep 
them in a healthy state. Gentle ape- 
rients should be occasionally given, 
and those of an alterative nature are 
to be preferred ; such as 5 grains of 
Plummer's Pill, at bedtime, and a 
Rhubarb draught in the morning ; 
drastic purgatives, such as Jalap, 
Bcammony, etc., are to be avoided, and 
also, as a general rule, salines. With 
regard to local applications, in the 
earlier stages, trial may be made of 



Iodine rubbed in in the form of oint- 
ment, which has, on some few occa- 
sions, been found capable of dispersing 
hard swellings supposed to be cancer- 
ous ; a plaster composed of Mercury 
and Amnion iacum has also been re- 
commended ; stimulating applications 
are decidedly objectionable, although 
they are sometimes used. When the 
tumor has passed into the soft state, 
or the sharp, shooting pains have com- 
menced, it is time to begin the admin- 
istration of sedatives ; Hemlock is 
that generally recommended ; the soft 
extract given as pills in 5 grain doses, 
or the Inspissated juice, J a dram, or 
the powdered leaves, from 3 to 10 
grains ; this, or Henbane, or the two 
in combination, are serviceable, both, 
internally and applied as poultices. 
Opium in its several forms is also 
given, but it has a tendency to confine 
the bowels ; Belladonna and Stramo- 
nium, too, may be tried should the 
above not have the desired effect, but 
it should be only under the direction 
of a medical man. Bichloride of 
Mercury given in combination with 
Tincture of Bark, Decoction of the 
same, or of Sarsaparilla, is sometimes 
administered ; of the latter named root, 
the Extract or Decoction is a favorite 
remedy. Gentian, and Quinine, and 
the various preparations of Iron, 
Iodide of Potassium, Cod Liver Oil, 
Infusion of Malt, the mineral acids, 
especially Nitric, and Arsenic, in the 
form of Fowler's Solution, have all 
their advocates, and all their peculiar 
advantages depending upon constitu- 
tional and other differences. Some 
use the Phosphate of Iron, made into 
a paste with water, as a local applica- 
tion ; or a Solution of the Muriated 
Tincture of Iron ; some Arsenical 
Ointment; some evaporating Spirit 
Lotions; some Limewater and Linseed 
Oil ; and some warm poultices. But 
again, says Sir Astley Cooper, " it is ail 
nought; cold or hot, they are alike 
useless ; the best dressing for the ulcer- 
ation is prepared thus : — 1 ounce of 
Soap Cerate, 1 dram of Extract of 
Belladonna, melt and mix ;" if there 



CANCER. 



109 



Is muclx inflammation, he does not 
object to the use of Leeches. When 
the discharge is oflfensive, add a little 
Solution of Chloride of Lime, or Soda, 
to the lotion. We need scarcely en- 
large upon the absolute necessity for 
extreme cleanliness ; the wound, when 
it is discharging, must be frequently 
dressed, and the patient's linen often 
changed, or the fetor will become 
intolerable. 

In some cases of Scirrhous Cancer, 
pressure has been applied with a certain 
amount of success ; shields of sheet- 
lead of various thickness, or tin plates, 
have been placed over the tumor, over 
these, strips of adhesive plaster, and 
then linen compresses and roller band- 
ages. In open Cancer, the wound has 
been filled with powdered chalk, and 
thickly dusted with starch powder, 
covering the more irritable surface 
with gold-beaters' skin. In this mode 
of treatment, care is taken to have the 
plaster and bandages evenly applied, 
and the cavities so filled up that pres- 
sure on the part be firm and even, 
without partial stricture. But we 
might fill a volume were we to enter 
fully into all the various modes of 
treating Cancers, the real or pretended 
remedies for which are indeed too 
numerous to mention here ; a quali- 
fied practitioner only can judge of 
the means best adapted for particular 
cases. 

If the Cancer be in the womb, a hori- 
zontal position should be maintained ; 
the lotions can only be applied as injec- 
tions, and no dressing on the immediate 
seat of the disease is possible, although 
a solution of Iodine, or other prepara- 
tion, may be applied, by means of a 
camel-hair brush ; leeches to the loins 
and groins n^ay be applied if there is 
much inflammation, the warm hip- 
bath used daily, and opiate injections 
administered, with a suppository at 
night. There should be abstinence 
from sexual intercourse, and perfect 
quiet. If the cancerous ulceration be 
on the tongue, it should be brushed 
over several times a day with a camel- 
hair pencil dipped in the following 



composition: Borax and Hemlock, 
powdered, of each 1 dram ; Honey, 
1 ounce; it is well also to apply to 
the surface, once a day or so, a 
brush dipped in Muriated Tincture of 
Iron. 

When the ulceration is on the face, 
the same application may be used, or 
Arsenical Solution of Potash, or Lime- 
water with Calomel — the Black Wash 
as it is called. In this situation. Can- 
cer is sometimes confounded with 
Lupus; but whereas the former at its 
commencement is hard and colorless, 
the latter is soft and of a bright red 
color ; the Cancerous tubercle, too, is 
single, but in Lupm there are usually 
two or more spots. 

An operation for Cancer should be 
performed in the indolent stage of the 
tumor ; that is, while it is hard and 
movable, before it has become attached 
to the surrounding tissues, from which 
it will be difficult, if not impossible, 
to extirpate it, when the disease has 
passed into the ulcerated state, and 
the absorbent glands have become af- 
fected. In operating thus, in the early 
period of the disease, there is a chance 
that the whole of the tumor may be 
removed, especially as is recommended, 
if a considerable portion of the healthy 
substance be cut away with it ; but it 
generally happens that the patient's 
mind is not made up until the symp- 
toms become really alarming, and the 
suffering great. Then, when the opera- 
tion is performed, the parts may unite, 
the wounds may heal, and all for a 
time appear to go on well, but sooner 
or later, the disease will be pretty 
sure to show itself again, and this 
time its progress will be more rapid 
than at first. 

Canker of the Mouth. — This is 
a gangrenous inflammation of the 
mouth ; it begins in small blisters on 
the inside of the cheek, or on the 
tongue, which soon become little 
ulcers, which are very painful, and 
sometimes spread both wide and 
deep. 

Treatment. — First clear and regu- 
late the bowels by some gentle ca. 



110 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



ihartic medicine. Rhubarb and Mag- 
nesia, or a Compound Cathartic Pill, 
one taken every night for some time, 
should also be used ; the mouth should 
be washed frequently with Sage Tea 
and Vinegar, or a tea made of the 
leaves of the Black Currant, or Roots of 
Blackberry, should be freely drank. 
Dissolve 1 dram of Crystals of Nitrate 
of Silver in J a wineglass of water, 
and apply to the ulcers with a camel- 
hair pencil as required. 

POLYPUS is a tumor generally 
occurring in the nose, but sometimes 
in the womb, or the ear, and so named 
from an erroneous idea that it had 
many roots or feet ; it is the result of 
an excessive growth of the mucous 
membrane, and sometimes assumes a 
malignant character. It may be either 
of a soft texture, so as easily to tear 
and bleed, or firm and fibrous, or even 
almost cartilaginous. The color is 
commonly a yellowish-gray, and it has 
little or no sensibility, although it 
causes much pain by its pressure upon 
the surrounding parts, stoppage of 
secretions, etc. It is attached to the 
surface from which it springs by a 
narrow neck like a footstalk. When 
in the nose, it interferes with the 
breathing, so tlHit the patient sleeps 
with the mouth open. In this situa- 
tion it may sometimes be destroyed 
by the persevering use of astringent 
applications, such as the Tincture of 
Steel applied with a camel-hair brush, 
twice a day, or a little Burnt Alum 
taken like snuff. In the womb. Poly- 
pus can only be treated by a surgeon, 
as here, and indeed elsewhere, an op- 
eration is generally required for its 
removal, — ligatures, scissors, or for- 
ceps being used for the purpose. The 
operation, if skilfully performed, is 
not a dangerous one, and it is neces- 
sary, for, although a Polypus is com- 
monly of slow growth, it is at all times 
very inconvenient, and often it in- 
creases very rapidly, and assumes a 
malignant character. 

WEN. — An encysted tumor, whose 
Beat is the cellular membrane of any 
part of the body. It is movable, has 



a pulpy feel, and varies in size, but 
seldom exceeds that of an egg. 

With regard to the trealvicnt of 
Wens, Dr. Graham observes that, al- 
though it is not often any advantage 
arises from the use of local applica- 
tions, yet sometimes a strong stimu- 
lant applied frequently to the surface 
will disperse them, when small and 
recently formed ; and of all stimulants, 
electricity appears to be the most effi- 
cacious. Those who wish to try it may 
have sparks from the battery, and 
slight shocks passed through it daily 
A very strong solution of salt and 
water is likewise a powerful stimulant 
in some cases of Wens, and has been 
known to bring them away by causing 
the cyst to open and discharge its con- 
tents. The surface of the Wen must 
be bathed with this solution very fre- 
quently every day. No benefit can be 
expected in less than a fortnight, and 
sometimes not sooner than a month or 
two. I am disposed to think this 
remedy worthy of more attention in 
these cases than it has yet obtained. 
The great advantage attending it is, 
that it gives no pain or inconvenience 
of any kind. The operation of remov- 
ing Wens by the knife is attended with 
much less jmin than is generally sup- 
posed. 

Varicose Veins are not uncommon 
in the legs of stout elderly females, 
and may be met with in those of all 
ages and both sexes. In this affection 
there is enlargement of the vessels, 
which stand out from the surface of 
the limb like cords ; like which, too, 
they often assume a knotted appear- 
ance. This affection may be attributed 
to obliteration, or deficient action of 
the valves of the Veins of the leg, or 
some other cause of obstruction of the 
flow of blood upward, through those 
of the abdomen. Pregnancy, habitual 
costiveness, liver disease, abdominal 
tumors, may be all mentioned as ex- 
citing causes. The pressure of a truss, 
or belt also, or of garters too tightly 
tied, may bring on this varicose con- 
dition of the veins, especially in per- 
sons whose occupation necessitates 



RUPTURE. 



Ill 



much standing. Great care should be 
taken to avoid a scratch or contusion 
of the swollen part, or a wound may- 
be produced which is likely to result 
in an ulcer very difficult to heal. The 
part should be supported and protected 
by a bandage, or elastic stocking. If 
the former, it should be very carefully 
and evenly applied ; but a well-fitting 
stocking of elastic web is the best and 
most convenient. 

Iodine Ointment should be well 
rubbed over the part affected every 
night, using considerable friction, and 
in the morning shower cold water 
upon it. 

Rupture, or Hernia, is a protrusion 
of some part of the abdominal viscera, 
but principally the intestines. There 
are four chief varieties of Rupture : — 
1st, Inguinal, which is in the groin, 
above the fold. 2d, Femoral, which is 
below the fold of the groin, 8d, Navel, 
or Umbilical. 4th, Ventral, occurring 
at the side, or middle of the belly, 
below the navel. The first of these is the 
most common form of Rupture ; next 
in frequency is the second ; the third is 
not uncommon with children at birth. 
This also sometimes affects stout elderly 
persons, especially females who have 
borne many children. It has been 
clearly established that about one out 
of every five men is ruptured; in 
women, the proportion is not nearly 
so great, as their avocations generally 
involve less muscular exertion. With 
them, the femoral form is most com- 
mon. 

Symptoms and Treatment. — A swell- 
ing, at first very small, shows itself in 
one or other of the situations above 
named. It is not painful, nor are 
there signs of inflammation about the 
spot ; if it recedes on pressure, or on a 
recumbent position being assumed, the 
patient may be pretty sure that it is a 
Kupture ; if, on pressing it back, there 
is a gurgling noise, it contains intestine 
only, but when omentum also is pro- 
jected, there will be a solid, doughy 
kind of feel. Persons are often rup- 
tured for some time without being 
aware of it. They will, perhaps, ex- 



perience uneasy sensations about the 
pit of the stomach, a kind of dragging, 
with slight nausea ; on their having 
occasion to make some great exertion, 
that hitherto undiscovered lump will 
become more prominent, and force it- 
self upon the attention, and there may 
or may not be sickness and vomiting 
until it is returned into the abdomen, 
which it generally can be with a little 
careful manipulation. The object, 
then, is to secure such an amount of 
pressure over the orifice of escape aa 
to prevent its protruding again ; and 
this can only be done by a truss of 
some kind. The patient is never safe 
without one; and, as it is of the utmost 
consequence, both to the comfort and 
safety of the wearer, that the instru- 
ment should be exactly suited to the 
case, it is best to resort at once to an 
experienced surgical mechanist for a 
supply of this essential article. First, 
the part should be sponged night and 
morning with cold water, and if it gets 
chafed or abraded, it should be dusted 
after each sponging with Starch pow- 
der or Flour. A regular action of the 
bowels is essential to the safety of rup- 
tured persons, as the violent medicines 
necessary to relieve a state of costive- 
ness will be likely to increase the Rup- 
ture to a dangerous extent. Castor 
Oil, or some other gentle aperient, 
should be taken as often as may be 
necessary to insure a daily motion 
without much straining. 

One of the tendencies of this affec- 
tion is to cause a deficient action of 
the bowels, and when these are much 
confined, and there is a sense of con- 
striction about the middle, and vomit- 
ing of feculent matter, an examination 
should always be instituted, to ascer- 
tain if Rupture has not originated this 
train of symptoms. It may happen 
with ruptured persons who do not 
wear a truss, and also with those who 
do, if the instrument is not quite suited 
to the case, that the protruding gut or 
omentum may become so large that 
there is much difficulty in getting it 
back, or reducing the Rupture, as we 
should say; if the patient cannot, by 



112 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



lying down on his back, and gently 
pressing it up through the aperture, 
accomplish this, the aid of a surgeon 
should be obtained, if possible : should 
it not be, a warm bath may be first 
tried, keeping the patient in until he 
feels faint, so as to relax the muscles. 
He should, during this time, repeatedly 
renew the efforts above directed. If 
this fails, apply pounded ice, in a 
bladder, to the part, or a freezing mix- 
ture, composed of Table Salt, Saltpetre, 
and Sal Ammoniac, in equal propor- 
tions, with a little water added, just 
enough to make it liquid. If neither 
of these can be readily obtained, in- 
tense cold may be produced by means 
of wet rags laid over the swelling, and 
evaporation encouraged by a continual 
stream of air from a pair of bellows 
directed upon the rags, which should 
be frequently rewetted. 

Sometimes the return of the Rupture 
may be accelerated by a reversal of the 
position of the body, placing it on an 
inclined plane with the head down- 
ward. Bleeaing to faintness while 
standing up, and then lying down, has 
sometimes succeeded, but, of course, 
only a surgeon could attempt this. 
Should all means fail, we have what 
is called Strangulated Hernia, and an 
operation is necessary ; this is always 
attended with considerable danger. 
When Rupture of the groin occurs 
with young children, nothing can be 
done for the first three months or so 
but to keep the child as much as pos- 
sible in a recumbent position, and 
sponge the part frequently with cold 
water ; at the end of the above period 
a light truss may be worn, with every 
prospect of a cure, if proper attention 
is paid to the case. When a person 
about forty years of age becomes rup- 
tured, there is little chance that a cure 
will be effected, although by constant 
pressure on the part, with an avoid- 
ance of violent exertion, the size of 
the Rupture may be greatly reduced. 

Diseases of the Eye. —The Eye- 
ball itself is liable to be affected by 
Acute, Chronic, Purulent, and Strumous 
Ophthalmia, the first of which is con- 



I fined to the conjunctiva, or outer- cov- 
ering of the front of the eye ; its chief 

I symptoms are a smarting sensation, 
and a feeling like that caused by the 
presence of dust ; there is also con- 
siderable stiffness, and the whites be- 
come tinged with red, owing to the 
veins being suffused ; on a close exami- 
nation, the red vessels may be distinctly 
traced, and it may be observed that 
they move with the surface, showing 
that the inflammation is but super- 
ficial. 

Treatment. — Warm bathing of the 
Eye, combined with an active mercu- 
rial treatment, should first be tried. If 
the habit of the patient is such as to 
bear this, 5 grains of Blue Pill at 
night, and a Saline or Black Draught 
in the morning, continued for three 
successive days, or alternate days, may 
be given ; if not, the mercury must be 
taken in a milder form, as in the Grey 
Powder, and combined with Rhubarb, 
say 3 grains of the former and 8 or 10 
of the latter, every other night ; the 
diet should be low, and light excluded 
as much as possible from the inflamed 
organ. Should the warm bathing not 
produce a good effect in a couple of 
days or so, use the following lotion : 
Wine of Opium, 1. dram ; Sulphate of 
Zinc, 8 grains ; Acetate of Lead, 16 
grains ; Rose, or plain Distilled Water, 
8 ounces ; dip a piece of linen in this 
lotion, and bind it, not too tightly, 
over the eye, letting part of the fold 
hang down so as to cover it well ; keep 
this moistened. Should it be necessary 
to resort to other measures, drop into 
the eye, from a quill or small glass 
tube, a Solution of Nitrate of Silver, 
the strength about 4 grains to the 
ounce of Distilled Water, 2 or 3 drops 
three times a day, and apply leeches. 
When this disease continues long, the 
inflammation extends deeper, and it be- 
comes chronic, which has all the symp- 
toms of the acute form of disease, ex- 
cept the feeling as of dust in the eyes ; 
the latter of the above measures will 
generally reduce it ; or should not the 
Nitrate of Silver drops succeed, use 
Wine of Opium alone in the same 



DISEASES OF THE EYES. 



113 



way, and a lotion made with Green 
Tea, and about one-sixth of its bulk 
of Brandy, or other strong spirit. 

Either of the above forms of Ophthal- 
mia, especially the two latter, may result 
in ulceration of the Cornea, which, in 
its more dangerous form, is caused by 
extensive inflammation of the Cornea 
itself; in its less dangerous form, by 
the little pustules already spoken of. 
In the former, the treatment cannot be 
too active and energetic, as there is lit- 
tle chance of saving the eye by other 
than the strongest methods ; Calomel 
and Opium, Blisters, Leeches, etc., will 
no doubt be employed by the physician. 
No one else can detect the niceties of 
the case sufficiently well to treat it 
properly. 

Rheumatic Inflammatioii of the 
Eye has its seat in the middle or 
sclerotic coat ; it is characterized by 
intense pain, which becomes more 
severe towards night, when it is gen- 
erally accompanied by fever, and con- 
stant aching of the bones of the orbit ; 
in this case it may be seen that the in- 
flammation is deeply seated, by the 
immobility of the red veins, when the 
lids are moved about ; the treatment 
here will be like that of Acute Bheu- 
matism. 

Inflammation of the Iris is charac- 
terized by intolerance of light, but not 
the spasmodic closure of the eyelids be- 
fore mentioned ; the whole colored part 
of the eye loses its clearness, and some- 
times has on it white or yellow spots ; a 
pink zone invests the cornea, and 
seems to give a tinge to the whole front 
of the ball. This is a very rapid and 
violent form of Eye disease, and bleed- 
ing, mercurials, and strong purgatives 
must be resorted to if they can possi- 
bly be borne ; 2 grains of Calomel 
with a i of a grain of Opium, given 
every six hours until soreness of the 
mouth is produced, and if it does not 
open the bowels freely, Black Draughts 
every morning, very low diet, and 
blisters behind the ears, are the ortho- 
dox remedies, and the best. 

Of that opacity of the crystalline lens 
called Cataract, we have spoken under 



its proper head. There is another dis- 
ease which, witirout any such opacity, 
or paralysis of the nerves, produces 
blindness. It is characterized by unu- 
sual dilation of the pupil, which con- 
tracts but sluggishly, and has generally 
a greenish-brown hazy appearance ; 
this is not very amenable to medical 
treatment. Counter-irritants, such as 
Blisters, may be tried, with Mercu- 
rials and Iodide of Potassium, but 
there is little chance of preserving the 
sight, which has usually become im- 
paired before the above symptoms de- 
clare the nature of the disease, which 
is often mistaken for Cataract ; the 
mischief in this case seems to be deep 
in the vitreous humor, the cloudy ap- 
pearance of which can only be seen 
when the eye is looked straight into. 

Inflammation of the Choroid is 
known by its accompanying dull heavy 
pains, and by bulging and discolora- 
tion of the white portions ; this, like 
Dropsy of the Eye, which occurs in the 
aqueous and vitreous humors, causing 
enlargement and loss of sight, cannot 
be treated by other than a skilful sur- 
geon, and seldom by him with success. 
The aid of such must also be sought 
for Cataract of the Eye, the only cure 
for which is the entire removal of the 
ball, an operation by no means dan- 
gerous, and easily gone through by the 
aid of Chloroform. 

It should be borne in mind that 
when Lead or Mercury, in any of their 
forms of combination, are applied to 
the Eye for any length of time, they are 
likely to produce Opacity of the Cor- 
nea, and consequent dimness of vision ; 
and even without this result, the white, 
by the use of Nitrate of Silver, may 
become permanently stained of an 
olive color. 

We have now to speak of those Eye 
afiections which relate rather to the 
appendages than to the globe itself; 
although, from the intimate connection 
existing between all parts of this com- 
plex organ, no one part can be mor- 
bidly affected without the rest par- 
taking, to some extent, in the 
mischief. 



n-i 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



STYES are little inflammatory tu- 
mors which frequently make their 
appearance on the edges of the Eyelids 
of children; they rarely affect grown 
persons, and, although troublesome, 
are not at all dangerous locally, nor 
prejudicious to the general health ; 
they run the same course as boils, 
which, in reality, they are ; generally 
speaking, they require no medical 
treatment, but when very large and 
painful, a Hot Water Fomentation 
will prove beneficial ; when once the 
matter has escaped, they heal very 
quickly ; a simple dressing of Sperma- 
ceti Ointment is sometimes required, 
but not often. 

The edges of the Eyelids are some- 
times very red and stiff, in consequence 
of the inflammation of the small 
follicles or ducts which open there ; 
the best remedy is a little Red Precip- 
itate Ointment rubbed into the roots of 
the lashes, when the lids are closed on 
retiring to rest ; this may be repeated 
every night until no longer required. 
A little Grey Powder, combined with 
Rhubarb, should be given, and the pa- 
tient kept quiet and somewhat low. 
When inflammation has been going on 
in the Eyelids for a time, their insides, 
when inverted, will often present a 
rough granular appearance ; in this 
case they should be gently rubbed 
over with a smooth piece of Dry Sul- 
phate of Copper ; the lid should be 
kept open after the application until 
the Eyeball is syringed with warm 
water, te remove from it any of the 
solution caused by the flow of tears 
acting on the Sulphate ; there will 
probably be great smarting of the Eye, 
and increased redness of the white 
portion, which must be suffered to sub- 
side before the application is repeated, 
which it will, most likely, have to be 
many times. Low diet, and Mercury 
with Rhubarb, as recommended in the 
last case, are also required in this. 
Sometimes the hairs on the lids grow 
inwards, and cause great irritation of 
the balls ; Collodion brushed over the 
lids will, as it dries, cause contraction 
of the skin, and so draw the hairs out- 



ward, but this is only a temporary 
relief, and the application must b« 
frequently repeated ; surgical aid must 
be sought for the casie, which is called 
T)'ichiasis. 

Entropium and Extropium are 
turning in and turning out of the edges 
of the Eyelids; in the first case the lashea 
rub against and inflame the ball; in the 
second, the inside of the lid is exposed, 
and becomes sore and inflamed. Only 
a skilful operator can effectually deal 
with these two forms of Eye disease, 
although some relief may be afforded 
in the former of them by the Collodion 
application above described. Ptosis is 
a dropping of the upper eyelids in 
consequence of palsy arising from dis- 
ease of the nerve which supplies the 
levator muscle ; sometimes the drop- 
ping is partial, sometimes entire, so 
that the whole eye is covered. This is a 
symjitom of organic disease, which 
may be of a trivial and temporary 
character, or extensive and permanent; 
no domestic treatment can be of any 
service in the case. Small encysted 
tumors and red spots, called ?icevi, fre- 
quently appear about the Eyelids, and 
also little abscesses, the latter especially 
after erysipelas, small-pox, or any 
other inflammatory diseases which 
affect the cellular membrane, which is 
very loose about the Eye. The latter 
may be pricked with a common lancet, 
when there is no doubt about their 
character ; but the former should not 
be meddled with except by experienced 
hands. Diseased conditions of the ap- 
paratus for the conveyance of tears 
from the lachrymal sac to the nose, 
sometimes occur ; only a surgeon can 
attempt to remove the obstructions, 
and remedy any defects which may be 
discoverable in the organs. 

As to Squinting, Optical Illu- 
sions, or Spectra, Near and Short 
Sight, our readers will find full par- 
ticulars in relation thereto under their 
several heads. We have now gone 
through most of the diseases to which 
the Eye and its appendages are sub- 
ject in as full, and we trust satisfactory, 
a manner as our space would permit 



SIGHT. 



115 



A few remarks on the appearance of 
the Eye as symptomatic of disease, 
may be useful in conclusion. 

A Blood-shot Eye may indicate 
either inflammation, or congestion, or 
extravasation of blood in the organ 
itself, or catarrh, or influenza, but 
measles especially. 

Contracted Pupil, if it be not the 
result of local disease, shows that some 
serious mischief is going on in the 
brain ; there may be compression, or 
watery eflFusion ; this is not unfre- 
quently the result of taking large doses 
of opium. 

Dilated Pupil occurs in amaurosis, 
and several diseases of the brain; small 
doses of Opium will frequently produce 
this ; and the outward application of 
Atropine, or Belladonna, will nearly 
always do so. 

Intolerance of Light we have 
already spoken of as a symptom of 
Strumuous Ophthalmia; in severe head- 
aches, fevers, and inflammation of the 
brain it is also met with. 

Prominence of the Eyeballs 
may result from dropsy of the eye it- 
self, but it is often symptomatic of some 
obscure disease, affecting the Brain or 
Heart. 

Smarting of the Eye occurs in 
acute Ophthalmia, and in that stage 
of measles in which these organs are 
particularly affected. 

Squinting, although commonly a 
chronic condition of the muscles of the 
Eye, is, when it comes on in the course 
of active disease, indicative of mischief 
in the brain, which may terminate in 
Apoplexy. 

Watering of the Eyes is, when 
acute, symptomatic of Influenza ; when 
chronic, of some obstruction to the 
flow of tears through the nasal duct. 

Yellowness of the Whites of the 
Eyes precedes and accompanies Jaun- 
dice, and indicates an improper action 
of the Liver. 

SIGHT. — It is only necessary for 
us here briefly to remark of this 
faculty of seeing, that, like the other 
senses, it conveys no clear information 
to the mind, until it has been well 



exercised and tested by comparison : 
thus the person born blind, to whom 
the faculty is for the first time given, 
recognizes not the objects he looks 
upon, although touch, taste, or smell 
may have previously made them 
known to him. 

The image now first painted on his 
retina may convey a different impres- 
sion to his mind from that which an 
examination of the same object by 
another sense than Sight had con- 
veyed, and he can only arrive at a 
true conception by studying and com- 
paring. The blind man in Scripture, 
to whom our Saviour gave sight, saw 
men as trees "walking ; he had known 
there were men before, and he had 
known that there were trees ; could 
tell when he came in contact with one 
or the other, but he could not tell 
what they were like; now he had a 
new power of testing his former expe- 
rience, and correcting his feeble im- 
pressions. The infant, when it first 
opens its eyes to the light, looks upon 
a world of wonders, and can form no 
correct idea of any object which it 
sees, until it has also touched and 
handled, tasted, or smelled it. The 
moral of all this is, that Sight, like 
every other faculty, requires careful 
education, and the pitch of perfection 
to which it can be educated is truly 
surprising. Very seldom is it sufli- 
ciently and properly exercised. Most 
men walk about this beautiful and 
wonderful world as if they had a veil 
before their eyes ; vision is to them 
but a half faculty, a dull, almost inert 
sense. But such should remember, 
that he is best able to serve himself 
and his fellow-creatures, and to appre- 
ciate the power and goodness of God, 
who improves and exercises to its full- 
est extent every power and faculty 
which God has given to him for the 
enjoyment of life. 

To Preserve the Eyesight. —Isi, 
avoid straining the eyes by reading 
small print, or looking at minute ob- 
jects. 

2d. Avoid reading or writing much 
in the dusk of the evening. 



116 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



3d. Do not continue to look at glar- 
ing objects. 

4th. Hold the object you are looking 
at, a considerable distance from the eye. 

5th. Sit in such a position that the 
light may strike upon the object from 
behind, over the shoulder. 

6th. Do not read while riding, or in 
any place where there is jolting. This 
is particularly injurious to the eyes, 
because, from the constant shaking, 
the object cannot be kept the same 
distance from the eye — therefore, can- 
not accommodate itself to it. 

On this topic, Dr. Clark gives some 
excellent admonitions. He says : 

" Frequently some imprudence in 
youth during the student period, while 
the body is in a state of immature de- 
velopment, results in a permanent dis- 
ability of the eyes. A few nights of 
successive study, or days of constant 
application, during a period of physi- 
cal debility; a day with the micro- 
scope, viewing an eclipse ; a few hours' 
reading in the cars, or any continued 
exercise of the organs of vision with- 
out sufficient rest, will frequently give 
a shock to the nervous apparatus of 
adjustment, from which the eyes never 
fully recover. 

" When, after reading, writing, sew- 
ing, or the like, there is an obscurity 
or confusion of objects, or if there is a 
feeling of fatigue in the eyes, or if 
black motes and sparks and flashes of 
light appear, or if objects appear to be 
surrounded with a halo, it is time to 
stop. No man can afford to continue 
the employment of the eyes upon near 
objects. Absolute rest of the eyes and 
mind are requisite — or, what will 
often do better, an entire change of 
employment. By giving the eyes 
timely rest, and guarding carefully the 
general health, the asthenopic may 
accomplish much eye labor." 

Rules for Judging when the Eyes 
Require the Assistance of Specta- 
cles. — (1.) When we are obliged to 
remove small objects to a considerable 
distance from the eye in order to see 
them distinctly. (2.) If we find it neces- 
sary to get more light than formerly ; 



as, for instance, to place alight betweem 
the eye and object. (3.) If on looking 
at, and attentively considering a near 
object, it fatigues the eye, and becomes 
confused, or if it appears to have a 
kind of dimness or mist before it. (4.) 
When small printed letters are seen to 
run into each other, and hence, by 
looking steadfastly on them, appear 
double or treble. (5.) If the eye» 
are so fatigued by a little exercise that 
we are obliged to shut them from time 
to time, so as to relieve them by look- 
ing at different objects. When all of 
these circumstances concur, or any of 
them separately takes place, it will be 
necessary to seek assistance from glass- 
es, which will ease the eyes, and in some 
degree check their tendency to become 
worse : whereas, if they be not assisted 
in time, the weakness will be consider- 
ably increased, and the eyes be im- 
paired by the efforts they are compelled 
to exert. * 

Felon, or Whitlow.— An inflamma- 
tion at the end of one of the fingers or 
thumbs, very painful, and much dis- 
posed to suppurate. The efi'usion may 
be immediately under the skin, or 
deeper among the tendons, or it may 
press on the periosteum ; this last is 'she 
worst and most malignant form ; it is 
consequently called Felon. The exces- 
sive pain and irritation which attend 
a Whitlow, is due chiefly to its situa- 
tion under the nail, and the thickened 
skin at the end of the finger or toe, 
which, from its unyielding nature, 
confines the inflamed part, and pre- 
vents the quick discharge of the matter 
formed. 

Whitlows generally arise from pri- ks 
or bruises, or other injuries of a Ic -al 
nature ; but with some they occur so 
frequently as to prove that they i e, 
in a measure, constitutional. 

Treatment. — The chief point is to 
soothe and soften the part affected ?y 
the free use of warm fomentations *Jid 
poultices, to render the nail and s\ in 
supple, and favor the formation and 
discharge of the matter. When there '8 
much inflammation, a leech or two 
may be applied to the swelling ; au«i 



BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. 



117 



r 



If the pain causes deprivation of rest, 
a Calomel and Opium Pill, containing 
a grain of each, may be taken at bed- 
time, and a gentle aperient draught in 
the morning. If the abscess does not 
"burst of itself, after the above measures, 
it should be opened with the lancet ; 
the nail should be pared away as thin 
.as possible, and any loose portions of 
it removed. Warm poulticing should 
"be continued a couple of days or 
fio, after the Whitlow is opened, and 
then a dressing of Simple Cerate should 
be applied, changing it about every 
■eight hours ; if this treatment should 
Dot suit, use Turner's Cerate, or try 
^ater dressing. A small blister 
13 sometimes necessary to promote 
an increased discharge, and give a 
salutary stimulus to the diseased parts ; 
it may be kept on about twelve hours, 
and the raw surface, when it comes off, 
•dressed with Spermaceti Ointment. 
When the Whitlow is seated among 
the tendons, there is excruciating pain, 
but little swelling of the affected finger, 
:although there may be of the hand and 
■wrist, and perhaps of the whole fore- 
arm ; this requires a free incision made 
very early, and only a surgeon can 
treat the case. 

It is not advisable to apply caustic to 
any fungus or proud flesh which may 
arise in these eases ; they will disappear 
if the wound can be stimulated to 
healthy action. 

Bone Felon. — The London Lancet 
■says : "As soon as the disease is felt, 
put directly over the spot a fly blister, 
about the size of your thumb-nail, and 
let it remain for six hours, at the ex- 
piration of which time, directly under 
the surface of the blister, may be seen 
the felon, which can instantly be taken 
out with the point of a needle or a 
lancet." 

Another remedy, very eflBcacious, is 
take rind of fat pork (if rusty the 
better), mix gunpowder with it, and 
apply as a poultice. Let it remain on 
for sixteen or twenty hours. The last 
hour or two will be painful, but on re- 
moving it the Felon will be gone, and 
the patient relieved. 



Bleeding at the Nose.— Persons of 
a sanguine temperament and full habit 
of body are most subject to this disease, 
we were about to say ; but perhaps it 
ought rather to be regarded as a salu- 
tary provision for the relief of the 
overcharged system. If it does not 
run to a weakening extent, it is very 
questionable whether it should be in- 
terfered with. Those who are troubled 
with vertigo and headache, arising 
from a fulness of the veins and a ten- 
dency of blood to the head, know how 
much better and lighter they feel after 
a good bleeding from the nose ; and 
there can be no doubt that many a fit 
of apoplexy has been averted by it, 
and many an attack of inflammatory 
fever, or inflammation of the brain. 
This bleeding may arise from several 
causes, among which may be named 
violent exercise, great heat, blows on 
the part, the long maintenance of a 
stooping posture, and a peculiar small- 
ness of the vessels which convey the 
blood to the brain, rendering them 
liable to rupture. It may come on 
without any previous warning, or be 
preceded by headache and a sense of 
heaviness, singing noises in the ear, 
heat and itching of the nostrils, throb- 
bing of the temporal artery, and accel- 
erated pulse. When it comes on too 
frequently and continues long, so as 
to cause faintness, and especially if the 
person subject to it be of a weakly 
habit or advanced in years, it should 
be stopped as soon as possible. The 
stoppage may sometimes be eflected by 
immersing the head in cold water, free 
exposure to cool air, and drinking cool 
acidulous liquids. The body of the 
patient should maintain an erect posi- 
tion, with the head thrown somewhat 
back, a key or other cold substance be 
applied to the spinal cord, vinegar be 
snuffed up the nostrils, or an astringent 
wash injected with a syringe. It may 
be composed as follows : Alum and 
Acetic Acid, of each 2 drams. Water, 
6 ounces ; or 3 drams of the Muriated 
Tincture of Iron in the same quantity 
of Water. Or, if these fail, the nos- 
trils may be plugged with lint dipped 



118 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



in a strong solution of the Sulphate 
of Copper; or the lint first moistened, 
and then dipped in finely powdered 
Charcoal. When the bleeding has 
stopped, there should be no haste to 
remove the clotted blood from the nos- 
trils ; let it come away of itself. Do 
not blow the nose violently, nor take 
stimulants, unless there be excessive 
faintness, in which case a little cold 
Brandy and Water may be taken. 
AVhere there is a full habit of bpdy, 
cooling medicines, low diet, and leeches 
to the temples, may be safely advised, 
with perhaps occasional bleeding from 
the arm. 

Extraordinary as it may appear, a 
piece of brown paper folded and placed 
between the upper lip and the gum, 
will stop bleeding of the nose. Put a 
piece of paper in your mouth, chew it 
rapidly, and it will stop your nose 
bleedinc 

Frost Bite. — The effect of severe cold 
is to weaken the circulation, the ex- 



tremities become blue, or livid, and if 
severe cold is long-continued, the cir- 
culation stops ; this is Frost-bite. Drow- 
siness comes on, then sleep, and death. 
Treatment. — The best plan is to place 
the limb, or part frozen, in cold water, 
for some time ; and as feeling begins 
to return, let the water be made a little 
warmer very gradually. If the person 
frozen be gone so far as to become 
insensible, and apparently dead, un- 
dress him and cover him with snow, 
except the mouth ; or in ice-cold 
water. Let him remain so for a few 
minutes, then rub with cold wet cloths; 
as the body becomes thawed, or supple, 
use dry cloths, and place the body in 
a cold bed, and rub with warm hands, 
continuing this treatment for some 
hours. If life appears, put a little 
Spirits of Camphor on the tongue, 
then rub the body with spirits and 
water, and give Brandy and Water to 
drink. 



EVERY ONE HIS OWN DRUGGIST. 

Fundamental Principles op Pharmacy — Rules for Measuring Liq- 
uids — How TO Compound Medicines — Properties and Uses of 
Drugs. 



MEASURES. — Liquid medicines are 
measured by the following table : — 



60 minims 

8 fluid drams... 
16 fluid ounces.. 

8 pints 



are contained 



1 fluid dram. 
1 fluid ounce. 
1 pint. 
1 gallon. 



And the signs which distinguish each 
are as follows : — c. means a gallon ; o, 
a pint; fi"^, a fluid ounce; fl'5, a 
fluid dram ; and ?t[, a minim, or drop. 
Formerly drops used to be ordered, 
but as the size of a drop must neces- 
sarily vary, minims are directed to be 
employed now for any particular medi- 
cine, although for such medicines as 
Oil of Cloves, Essence of Ginger, etc., 
drops are frequently ordered. 

In order that we may Measure 
Medicines accurately, there are 
graduated glass vessels for measuring 
ounces, drams, and minims. 

When proper Measures are 
not at hand, it is necessary to adopt 
some other method of determining the 
quantities required, and therefore we 
have drawn up the following table for 
that purpose : 



A tumbler 

A teacup 

A wineglass 

A tablespoon 

A dessertspoon. 
A teaspoon 



^ 



isually 

contains 

about 



16 ounces. 



2 

4 drams. 



These quantities refer to ordinary sizni 
spoons and ve.ssels. Some cups hold 
Process of Making Medicines.— 
Some substances require to be pre- 
pared in a particular manner before 
they can be powdered, or to be assisted 
by adding some other body. For ex- 
ample, Camphor powders more easily 
when a few drops of spirits of wine 
are added to it ; Mace, Nutmegs, and 
such oily aromatic substances are better 
for the addition of a little white sugar ; 
Resins and Gum-Resins should be pow- 
dered in a cold place, and if they are 
intended to be dissolved, a little fine 
well-washed white sand mixed with 
them assists the process of powdering. 
Tough roots, like Gentian and Ca- 
lumba, should be cut into thin slices ; 
and fibrous roots, like Ginger, cut 
slanting, otherwise the powder will be 
full of small fibres. Vegetable matters 
require to be dried before they are 
powdered. 

Be careful not to pound toO' 
HARD in a glass, porcelain, or Wedge- 
wood-ware mortar; they are intended 
only for substances that pulverize 
easily, and for the purpose of mixing 
or incorporating medicines. Never 
use acids in a marble mortar, and be 
119 



120 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



sure that you do not jiowder galls or 
any other astringent substances in any 
but a brass mortar. 

Sifting is frequently required for 
powdered substances, and this is usually 
done by employing a fine sieve, or 
tying the powder up in a piece of 
muslin, and striking it against the left 
hand over a piece of paper. 

Filtering is frequently required for 
the purpose of obtaining clear fluids, 
such as infusions, eye-washes, and 
other medicines ; and it is, therefore, 
highly important to know how to per- 
form this simple operation. We must 
first of all make the filter-paper ; this 
is done by taking a square sheet of 
white blotting-paper, and doubling it 
over so as to form an angular cup. 
We next procure a piece of wire, and 
twist it into a form to place the fun- 
nel in, to prevent it passing too far 
into the neck of the bottle. Open out 
the filter-paper very carefully, and hav- 
ing placed it in the funnel, moisten it 
with a little water. Then place the wire 
in the space between the funnel and 
the bottle, and pour the liquid gently 
down the side of the paper, otherwise 
the fluid is apt to burst the paper. 

Maceration is another process that 
is frequently required to be performed 
in making up medicines, and consists 
simply in immersing the medicines in 
cold water or spirits for a certain time. 

Digestion resembles maceration, 
except that the process is assisted by a 
gentle heat. The ingredients are placed 
in a flask, such as salad oil is sold in, 
Avhich should be fitted with a plug of 
tow or wood, and have a piece of wire 
twisted round the neck. The flask is 
held, by means of the wire, over the 
flame of a spirit-lamp, or else placed 
in some sand warmed in an old iron 
saucepan over the fire, care being 
taken not to place more of the flask 
below the sand than the portion occu- 
pied by the ingredients. 

Infusion is one of the most fre- 
quent operations required in making up 
medicines, its object being to extract 
the aromatic and volatile principles 
of substances, that would be lost by 



decoction or digestion ; and to extract 
the soluble from the insoluble parts of 
bodies. Infusions may be made with 
cold water, in which case they are 
weaker, but more pleasant. The gen- 
eral method employed consists in 
slicing, bruising, or rasping the in- 
gredients first, then placing them in a 
common pitcher (which should be aa 
globular as possible), and pouring boil- 
ing water over them ; cover the pitcher 
with a cloth folded six or eight times, 
but if there be a lid to the vessel so 
much the better; when the infusion 
has stood the time directed, hold a 
piece of very coarse linen over the 
spout, and pour the liquid through it 
into another vessel. 

Decoction, or boiling, is employed 
to extract the mucilaginous or gummy 
parts of substances, their bitter, astrin- 
gent, or other qualities, and is nothing 
more than boiling the ingredients in a 
saucepan with the lid slightly raised. 
Be sure never to use an iron saucepan 
for astringent decoctions, such as oak- 
bark, galls, etc., as they will turn the 
saucepan black, and spoil the decoc- 
tion. The enamelled saucepans are 
very useful for decoctions, but an ex- 
cellent plan is to put the ingredients 
into a jar and boil the jar, thus pre- 
paring it by a water bath, as it is tech- 
nically termed; or by using a common 
pipkin, which answers still better. No 
decoction should be allowed to boil for 
more than ten minutes. 

Extracts are made by evaporating 
the liquors obtained by infusion or de- 
coction, but these can be bought much 
cheaper and better of apothecaries, and 
so can tinctures, confections, cerates 
and plasters, and syrups ; but as every 
one is not always in the neighborhood 
of apothecaries, we shall give recipes 
for those most generally useful, and 
the method of making them. 

Precautions to be Observed in 
Giving Medicines. — Sex. — Medi- 
cines for females should not be so 
strong as those for males, therefore it 
is advisable to reduce the doses about 
one-third. 

Temperament. — Persons ofaphlep 



DOMESTIC PHARMACOPCEIA. 



121 



ttiatic temperament bear stimulants 
and purgatives better than those of a 
sanguine temperament, therefore the 
latter require smaller doses. 

Habits. — Purgatives never act so 
well upon persons accustomed to take 
them as upon those who are not, there- 
foi"e it is better to change the form of 
purgative from pill to potion, powder 
to draught, or aromatic to saline. Pur- 
gatives should never be given when 
there is an irritable state of the bowels. 

Stimulants and Narcotics never 
act so quickly upon persons accustomed 
to use spirits freely as upon those who 
live abstemiously. 

Climate. — The action of medicines 
is modified by climate and seasons. In 
summer, certain medicines act more 
powerfully than in winter, and the 
same person cannot bear the dose in 
July that he could in December. 

General Health. — Persons whose 
general health is good, bear stronger 
doses than the debilitated and those 
who have suffered for a long time. 

Idiosyncrasy. — Walker's Diction- 
ary will inform you that "idiosyncrasy" 
means a peculiar temperament or dis- 
position not common to people gener- 
ally. For example, some persons can- 
not take Calomel in the smallest dose 
without being salivated, or Rhubarb 
without having convulsions ; others 
cannot take Squills, Opium, Senna, 
etc., and this peculiarity is called the 
patient's idiosyncrasy, therefore it is 
wrong to insist upon their taking these 
medicines. 

Forms best suited for Adminis- 
tration. — Fluids act quicker than 
solids, and powders sooner than pills. 

Best Method of Preventing the 
Nauseous Taste of Medicines. — 
Castor Oil may be taken in milk, cof- 
fee, or spirit, such as brandy ; but the 
best method of covering the nauseous 
flavor is to put a tablespoonful of 
strained orange juice in a wineglass, 
pour the Castor Oil into the centre of 
the juice, and then squeeze a few drops 
of lemon juice upon the top of the oil. 
Cod Liver Oil may be taken, like Cas- 
tor Oil, in orange juice. Peppermint 



water almost neutralizes the nauseous 
taste of Epsom Salts ; a strong solution 
of Extract of Liquorice, that of Aloes ; 
milk, that of Cinchona Bark; and 
cloves, of Senna. 

An Excellent Way to Prevent 
THE Taste of Medicines is to have 
the medicine in a glass, as usual, and 
a tumbler of water by the side of it ; 
take the medicine, and retain it in the 
mouth, which should be kept closed, 
and if you then commence drinking 
the water, the taste of the medicine is 
washed away. Even the bitterness of 
Quinine and Aloes may be prevented 
by this means. If the nostrils are 
firmly compressed by the thumb and 
finger of the left hand, while taking a 
nauseous draught, and so retained till 
the mouth has been washed out with 
water, the disagreeable taste of the 
medicine will be quite unperceived. 

Giving Medicines to Persons. — 
Medicines should be given in such a 
manner that the effect of the first dose 
shall not have ceased when the next 
dose is given, therefore the intervals 
between the doses should be regulated 
accordingly. 

Doses of Medicine for Differ- 
ent Ages. — It must be plain to every 
one that children do not require such 
powerful medicine as adults or old 
I^eople, and therefore it is desirable to 
have some fixed method of deter- 
mining or regulating the administra- 
tion of doses of medicine. Now we 
will suppose that the dose for a full 
grown person is 1 dram, then the fol- 
lowing proportions will be suitabe for 
the various ages given ; keeping in 
view other circumstances, such as sex, 
temperament, habits, climate, state of 
general health, and idiosyncrasy. 



Age. 



7 weeks 

7 months 

Under 2 years... 

" 3 " ... 

" 4 " ... 

" 7 " ... 

« 14 « ... 

" 20 » ... 
above 21 " 

« 65 " ... 



Proportion. 



one-fifteenth 
one-twelfth., 
one-eighth... 

one-sixth 

one-fourth... 

one-third 

one-half 

two-fifths 

the full dose 
the inverse .. 



Proportionate 
Dose. 



4 
5 



or grams 
or grains 
or grains 
or grains 10 
or grains 16 
or scruple 1 
or dram J^ 

or scruples 2 
or dram 1 
gradation. 



122 



YOU ask! — I'll, tell! 



Drugs, with their Properties and 
Doses. — We liave arranged the vari- 
ous drugs according to their proper- 
ties, and have given the doses of each ; 
but in compiling this we have neces- 
sarily omitted many from each class, 
because they cannot be employed ex- 
cept by a medical man. The doses are 
meant for adults. 

Medicines have been divided 
into four grand classes — L General 
Btiraulants ; 2. Local stimulants ; 3. 
Chemical remedies ; 4. Mechanical 
remedies. 

General Stimulants. — General 
stimulants are subdivided into two 
classes, diffusible and permanent stim- 
ulants : the first comprising narcotics 
and anti-spasmodics, and the second 
tonics and astringents. 

Narcotics are medicines which stu- 
pefy and diminish the activity of the 
nervous system. Given in small doses, 
they generally act as stimulants, but 
an increased dose produces a sedative 
effect. Under this head we include 
Alcohol, Camphor, Ether, the Hop, 
and Opium. 

Alcohol, or rectified spirit, is a 
very powerful stimulant, and is never 
used as a remedy without being diluted 
to the degree called proof spirit ; and 
even then it is seldom used internally. 
It is used externally in restraining 
bleeding, when there is not any vessel 
of importance wounded. It is also 
used as a lotion to burns, and is ap- 
plied by dipping a piece of lint into 
the spirit, and laying it over the part. 
Freely diluted (one part to eighteen) 
with water, it forms a useful eye-wash 
in the last stage of ophthalmia. Used 
internally, it acts as a very useful stim- 
ulant when diluted and taken moder- 
ately, increasing the general excite- 
ment, and giving energy to the mus- 
cular fibres ; hence it becomes very 
useful in certain cases of debility, es- 
pecially in habits disposed to create 
acidity, and in the low stage of 
typlius fevers. Dose. — It is impossi- 
ble to fix anything like a dose for this 
remedy, as much will depend upon 
the individual ; but diluted with water 



and sweetened with sugar, from \ an 
ounce to 2 ounces may be given 
three or four times a day. In cases of 
extreme debility, however, much will 
depend upon the disease. Caution. — 
Remember that Alcohol is an irritant 
poison, and that the indulgence in its 
use daily originates dyspepsia, or indi- 
gestion, and many other serious com- 
plaints. Of all kinds of spirits, the 
best as a tonic and stomachic is 
brandy. 

Camphor is not a very steady stim- 
ulant, as its effect is transitory ; but in 
large doses it acts as a narcotic, abat- 
ing pain and inducing sleep. In mod- 
erate doses it operates as a diapho- 
retic, diuretic, and anti-spasmodic, in- 
creasing the heat of the body, allaying 
irritation and spasm. It is used ex- 
ternally as a liniment when dissolved 
in Oil, Alcohol, or Acetic Acid, being 
employed to allay rheumatic pains ; 
and it is also useful as an embrocation 
in sprains, bruises, chilblains, and, 
when combined with Opium, it has 
been advantageously employed in flat- 
ulent colic and severe diarrhoea, being 
rubbed over the bowels. When re- 
duced to a fine powder, by the addition 
of a little Spirit of Wine and friction, 
it is very useful as a local stimulant to 
indolent ulcers, especially when they 
discharge a foul kind of matter. A 
pinch is taken between the finger and 
thumb, and sprinkled into the ulcer, 
which is then dressed as usual. When 
dissolved in Oil of Turpe^itine, and a few 
drojjs are placed in a hollow tooth, 
and covered with jeweller's wool, or 
scraped lint, it gives almost instant 
relief to toothache. Used internally, it 
is apt to excite nausea, and even vom- 
iting, especially when given in the solid 
form. Asastlinulant, itisofgreatservice 
in all low fevers, malignant measles, . 
malignant sore throat, and confluent 
small-pox; and when combined with 
Opium and Bark, it is extremely useful 
in checking the progress of malignant 
ulcers and gangrene. As a narcotic, it 
is very useful, because it allays pain 
and irritation, without increasing the 
pulse very much. When powdered and 



medicines: their properties and doses. 



12a 



eprinkled upon the surface of a blister, 
it prevents the cantharides acting in a 
peculiar and painful manner upon the 
bladder. Combined tvith Senna, it in- 
creases its purgative properties; and 
it is also used to correct the nausea 
produced by Squills, and the irritating 
effects of drastic purgatives and meze- 
reon. Dose, from 4 grains to half a 
scruple, repeated at short intervals 
when used in small doses, and long 
intervals when employed in large doses. 

Doses of the various preparations. — 
Camphor mixture, from half an ounce 
to 3 ounces ; Compound Tincture of 
Camphor {Paregoric elixir) from 15 
minims to 2 drams. Caution. — When 
given in an overdose, it acts as a 
poison, producing vomiting, giddiness, 
delirium, convulsions, and sometimes 
death. Opium is the best antidote for 
Camphor, whether in excess or taken 
as a poison. 3Iode of exhibition. — It 
may be rubbed up with almond emul- 
sion, or mucilage, or the yolk of eggs, 
and by this means suspended in water, 
or combined with chloroform as a mix- 
ture, in which form it is a valuable 
stimulant in cholera and other dis- 
eases. 

Ethee is a diffusible stimulant, nar- 
cotic, and anti-spasmodic. Sulphuric 
Ether is used externally both as a stim- 
ulant and a refrigerant. In the former 
case, its evaporation is prevented by 
covering a rag moistened with it with 
oiled silk, in order to relieve headache ; 
and in the latter case it is allowed 
to evaporate, and thus produce cold- 
ness ; hence it is applied over scalded 
surfaces by means of rags dipped in it. 
As a local application, it has been found 
to afford almost instant relief in ear- 
ache, when combined with Almond Oil, 
and dropped into the ear. Internally, 
it is used as a stimulant and narcotic 
in low fevers and cases of great ex- 
haustion. Dose, from 15 minims to \ 
a dram, repeated at short intervals, as 
its effects soon pass off. It is usually 
given in a little Camphor Julep, or 
Water. 

Nitric Ether is a refrigerant, diu- 
retic, and anti-spasmodic, and is well 



known as " Sweet Spirit of Nitre." Used 
externally, its evapoiation relieves 
headache, and it is sometimes applied 
to burns. Internally, it is used to re- 
lieve nausea, flatulence, and thirst in 
fevers, also as a diuretic. Dose, from 10 
minims to 1 dram. 

Compound Spirit of Sui.phttric 
Ether is a very usefiil stimulant, nar- 
cotic, and anti-spasmodic. Used in- 
ternally in cases of great exhaustion, 
attended with irritability. Dose, from 
J a dram to 2 drams, in Camphor 
Julep. When combined with Lauda- 
num, it prevents the nauseating effects 
of the opium, and acts more beneficially 
as a narcotic. 

The Hop is a narcotic, tonic, and 
diuretic. It reduces the frequency of 
the pulse, and does not affect the head, 
like most anodynes. Used externally^ 
it acts as an anodyne and discutient, 
and is useful as a fomentation for 
painful tumors, rheumatic pains in 
the joints, and severe contusions. A 
pillow stuffed with Hops acts as a nar- 
cotic. When the powder is mixed 
with lard, it acts as an anodyne dress- 
ing in painful ulcers. Dose, of the 
extract, from 5 grains to 1 scruple; 
of the tincture, from h a dram to 2 
drams ; of the powder, from 3 grains tO' 
1 scruple ; of the infusion, j ounce to 
\h ounces. 

Opium is a stimulant, narcotic, and 
anodyne. Used externally it acts al- 
most as well as when taken into the 
stomach, and without affecting the 
head or causing nausea. Applied to 
irritable ulcers in the form of tincture, 
it promotes their cure, and allays pain. 
Cloths dipped in a strong solution, and 
applied over painful bruises, tumors, 
or inflamed joints, allay pain. A small 
piece of solid Opium stuffed into a 
hollow tooth relieves toothache. A 
weak solution of Opium forms a valu- 
able collyrium in ophthalmia ; 2 drops 
of the Wine of Opium dropped into 
the eye, acts as an excellent stimulant 
in bloodshot eye ; or after long-con- 
tinued inflammation, it is useful in 
strengthening the eye. Applied as a 
liniment, in combination with Ammo 



124 



YOU ask! — i'liv tell! 



Ilia and Oil, or with Camphorated 
Spirit, it relieves muscular pain. 
When combined with Oil of Turpen- 
tine, it is useful as a liniment in spas- 
modic colic. Used internally, it acts as 
% very powerful stimulant, then as a 
sedative, and finally as an anodyne 
and narcotic, allaying pain in the 
most extraordinary manner, by acting 
directly upon the nervous system. In 
acute rheumatism, it is a most excel- 
lent medicine when combined with 
Calomel and Tartrate of Antimony ; 
but its exhibition requires the judicious 
care of a medical man. Doses of the 
various preparations. — Confection of 
Opium, from 5 grains to ^ a dram ; 
Extract of Opium, from 1 to 5 grains 
(this is a valuable form, as it does not 
produce so much after-derangement 
of the nervous system as solid Opium); 
pills of Soap and Opium, from 5 to 10 
grains ; Compound Ipecacuanha Pow- 
der ("Dover's Powder"), from 10 to 
15 grains; Compound Kino Powder, 
from 5 to 15 grains ; Wine of Opium, 
from 10 minims to 1 dram. Caution. — 
Opium is a powerful poison when 
taken in too large a quantity, and 
therefore should be used with extreme 
caution. It is on this account that 
we have omitted some of its prepara- 
tions. The best antidote for Opium is 
Camphor. 

Anti - Spasmodics are medicines 
which possess the power of overcoming 
the spasms of the muscles, or allaying 
any severe pain which is not attended 
by inflammation. The class includes a 
great many, but the most safe and ser- 
viceable are Ammonia, Assafoetida, 
Galbanura, Valerian Bark, Ether, 
Camphor, Opium, and Chloroform, 
with the minerals, Oxide of Zinc and 
Oalomel. 

Ammonia, or " Volatile Salt," is 
an anti-spasmodic, antacid, stimulant, 
and diaphoretic. Used externally, com- 
bined with Oil, it forms a cheap and 
useful liniment, but it should be dis- 
solved in proof spirit before the Oil 
is added. One part of this Salt, and 
three parts of Extract of Belladonna, 
mixed and spread upon leather, makes 



an excellent plaster for relieving 
rheumatic pains. As a local stimu- 
lant it is well known, as regards it? 
effects in hysterics, faintness, and las- 
situde, when applied to the nose, aa 
common smelling salts. It is used 
internally as an adjunct to Infusion of 
Gentian in dyspepsia or indigestion, 
and in moderate doses in gout. Dose, 
from 5 to 15 grains. Caution. — Over- 
doses act as a narcotic and irritant 
poison. 

Bicarbonate of Ammonia, used 
internally the same as the " volatile 
salt." Dose, from 6 to 12 grains. It 
is frequently combined with Epsom 
Salts. 

Solution of Sesquicarbonate of 
Ammonia, used the same as the " vola- 
tile salt." Dose, from J a dram to 
1 dram, combined with some milky 
fluid, like Almond Emulsion. 

AssAFCETiDA is an anti-spasmodic, 
expectorant, excitant, and anthel- 
mintic. Used internally, it is extremely 
useful in dyspepsia, flatulent colic, 
hysteria, and nervous diseases; and 
where there are no inflammatory 
symptoms, it is an excellent remedy 
in whooping-cough and asthma. Used 
locally as an enema, it is useful in flatu- 
lent colic, and convulsions that come 
on through teething. Doses of various 
preparations. — Solid gum, from 5 to 
10 grains as pills ; mixture, from 
^ an ounce to 1 ounce ; tincture, from 
15 minims to 1 dram ; ammoniated 
tincture, from 20 minims to 1 dram. 
Caution. — Never give it when inflam- 
mation exists. 

Galbanum is stimulant, anti-spas 
modic, expectorant, and deobstruent. 
Used externally, it assists in dispelling 
indolent tumors when spread upon 
leather as a plaster, and is useful in 
weakness of the legs from rickets, 
being applied as a plaster to the loins. 
Employed i7iternally, it is useful in 
chronic or old standing rheumatism 
and hysteria. Doses of preparations. — 
Of the gum, from 10 to 15 grains 
as pills ; tincture, from 15 minima 
to 1 dram. It may be made into an 
emulsion with mucilage and water. 



MEDICINES: THEIR PROPERTIES AKD D08ES. 125 



Valerian is a powerful anti-spas- 
modic, tonic, and excitant, acting 
chiefly on the nervous centres. Used 
internally, it is employed in hysteria, 
nervous languors, and spasmodic com- 
plaints generally. It is useful in low 
fevers. Doses of various preparations. 
— Powder, from 10 grains to J a 
dram, three or four times a day ; tinc- 
ture, from 2 to 4 drams ; ammo- 
niated tincture, from 1 to 2 drams ; 
infusion, from 2 to 3 ounces, or 
more. 

Bark, or, as it is commonly called, 
"Peruvian Bark," is an anti-spas- 
modic, tonic, astringent, and stomachic. 
Used externally, it is an excellent de- 
tergent for foul ulcers, and those that 
heal slowly. Used internally, it is par- 
ticularly valuable in intermittent fever 
or ague, malignant measles, dysentery, 
diarrhoea, intermittent rheumatism, St. 
Vitus' dance, indigestion, nervous af- 
fections, malignant sore throat, and 
erysipelas; its use being indicated in 
all cases of debility. Doses of its prep- 
arations, — Powder, from 5 grains 
to 2 drams, mixed in wine, water, 
milk, syrup, or solution of liquorice; 
infusion, from 1 to 3 ounces; decoc- 
tion, from 1 to 3 ounces ; tincture 
and compound tincture, each from 1 
to 3 drams. Caution. — If it causes 
oppression at the stomach, combine 
it with an aromatic ; if it causes vom- 
iting, give it in wine or soda water; 
if it purges, give opium ; and if it con- 
stipates, give rhubarb. 

Ether (Sulphuric) is given in- 
ternally as an anti-spasmodic in difli- 
cult breathing and spasmodic asthma ; 
also in hysteria, cramp of the stomach, 
hiccough, locked jaw, and cholera. 
It is useful in checking sea-sickness. 
Dose, from 20 minims to 1 dram. 
Caution — An overdose produces apo- 
plectic symptoms. 

Camphor is given internally as an 
anti-spasmodic in hysteria, cramp in 
the stomach, flatulent colic, and St. 
Vitus' dance. Dose, from 2 to 20 grains. 

Opium is employed internally in 
spasmodic affections, such as cholera, 
spasmodic asthma, whooping-cough, 



flatulent colic, and St. Vitus' dance. 
Dose, from g^ of a grain to 2 grains 
of the solid opium, according to the 
disease. 

Oxide of Zinc is an anti-spas- 
modic, astringent, and tonic. Usedi 
externally, as an ointment, it forms an. 
excellent astringent in affections of 
the eyelids, arising from relaxation ;■ 
or as a powder, it is an excellent de- 
tergent for unhealthy ulcers. Used 
internally, it has proved efficacious in 
St. Vitus' dance, and some other spas- 
modic affections. Dose, from 1 to 6. 
grains, twice a day. 

Calomel is an anti-spasmodic, al- 
terative, deobstruent, purgative, and 
errhine. Used internally, combined 
with Opium, it acts as an anti-spas- 
modic in locked jaw, cholera, and 
many other spasmodic affections. As 
an alterative and deobstruent, it has 
been found useful in leprosy and itch,, 
when combined with antimonials and 
guaiacum, and in enlargement of the 
liver and glandular affections. It acts 
beneficially in dropsies, by producing 
watery motions. In typhus it is oi 
great benefit when combined with an- 
timonials ; and it may be given as a 
purgative in almost any disease, pro- 
vided there is not any inflammation of 
the bowels, irritability of the system, 
or great debility. Dose, as a deob- 
struent and alterative, from 1 to 6' 
grains, daily ; as a cathartic, from 5 
to 15 grains ; to produce ptyalism,. 
or salivation, from 1 to 2 grains, 
in a pill, with a quarter of a grain of 
Opium, night and morning. Caution. 
— When taking Calomel, exposure to. 
cold or dampness should be guarded 
against, as such an imprudence would 
bring out an eruption of the skin, at- 
tended with fever. When this does- 
occur, leave off the Calomel, and give 
bark, wine, and purgatives ; take a 
warm bath twice a day, and powder 
the surface of the body with powdered 
starch. 

TONICS are given to improve the 
tone of the system, and restore the- 
natural energies and general strength 
of the body. They consist of Bark 



126 



YOU ask! — I'l.L tell! 



Quassia, Gentian, Camomile, Worm 
wood, and Angostura Bark. 

Quassia is a simple tonic, and can 
be used with safety by any one, as it 
does not increase the animal heat, or 
quicken the circulation. Used inter- 
nally, in the form of infusion, it has 
been found of great benefit in indiges- 
tion and nervous irritability, and is 
useful after bilious fevers and diarrhoea. 
Dose of the infusion, from 1^ to 2 
ounces, three times a day. 

Gentian is an excellent tonic and 
stomachic; but when given in large 
doses, it acts as an aperient. It is v^ed 
internally in all cases of general de- 
bility, and when combined with Bark, 
is used in intermittent fevers. It has 
also been employed in indigestion, and 
it is sometimes used, combined with 
Volatile Salt, in that disease ; but at 
other times alone, in the form of infu- 
sion. After diarrhoea, it proves a use- 
ful tonic. Used externally, its infusion 
is sometimes applied to foul ulcers. 
Dose, of the infusion, Ij to 2 ounces ; 
of the tincture, 1 to 4 drams; of the 
extract, from 10 to 30 grains. 

Camomile. — The flowers of the 
Camomile are tonic, slightly anodyne, 
anti-spasmodic, and emetic. They are 
used externally as fomentations, in colic, 
faceache, and tumors, and to unhealthy 
ulcers. They are used infernally in the 
form of infusion, with Carbonate of 
Soda, Ginger, and other stomachic 
remedies, in dyspepsia, flatulent colic, 
debility following dysentery and gout. 
Warm infusion of the flowers acts as 
an emetic; and the powdered flowers 
are sometimes combined with Opium 
or Kino, and given in intermittent 
fevers. Dose, of the powdered flowers, 
from 10 grains to 1 dram, twice or 
thrice a day ; of the itifusioti, from 1 
to 2 ounces, as a tonic, three times a 
day, and from 6 ounces to 1 pint, as 
an emetic ; of the extract, from 5 to 20 
grains. 

Wormwood is a tonic and anthel- 
mintic. It is used externally as a dis- 
cutient and antiseptic. It is u^ed in- 
ternally in long-standing cases of 
dyspepsia, in the form of infusion, 



with or without aromatics. It has 
also been used in intermittents. Dose, 
of the infusion, from 1 to 2 ounces, 
three times a day ; of the powder, from 
1 to 2 scruples. 

Angostura Bark, or Cusparia, is 
a tonic and stimulant. It expels 
flatulence, increases the appetite, and 
produces a grateful warmth in the 
stomach. It is tised internally in in- 
termittent fevers, dyspepsia, hysteria, 
and all cases of debility where a stim- 
ulating tonic is desirable, particularly 
after bilious diarrhoea. Dose, of the 
powder, from 10 to 15 grains, com- 
bined with Cinnamon Powder, Mag- 
nesia, or Rhubarb ; of the extract, from 

3 to 10 grains ; of the i7ifmion, from 1 
to 2 ounces. Caution. — It should 
never be given in inflammatory dis- 
eases or hectic fever. 

ASTRINGENTS are medicines 
given for the purpose of diminishing 
excessive discharges, and to act indi- 
rectly as tonics. This class includes 
Catechu, Kino, Oak Bark, Logwood, 
Rose Leaves, Chalk, and White Vitriol. 
Catechu is a most valuable astrin- 
gent. It is u^ed externally, when pow- 
dered, to promote the contraction of 
flabby ulcers. As a local astringent it 
is useful in relaxed uvula, a small 
piece being dissolved in the mouth; 
small, spotty ulcerations of the mouth 
and throat, and bleeding gums, and 
for these two atlections it is used in 
the form of infusion to wash the parts. 
It is given internally in diarrhoea, 
dysentery, and hemorrhage from the 
bowels. Dose, of the infusion, from 1 
to 3 ounces ; of the tincture, from 1 to 

4 drams ; of the powder, from 10 to 30 
grains. Caution. — It must not be given 
with Soda or any alkali, nor Metallic 
Salts, Albumen, or Gelatine, as its 
property is destroyed by this combina- 
tion. 

Kino is a powerful astringent. It 
is used externally to ulcers, to give tone 
to them when flabby, and discharging 
foul and thin matter. It is used inter- 
nally in the same diseases as Catechu. 
Dose, of the powder, from 10 to 15 
grains ; of the tincture, from 1 to 2 



medicines: their properties and doses. 327 



drams ; of the compound powder, from 
10 to 20 grains ; of the infusion, from 
J to 1 J ounces. Caution. — Kino is 
used in combination with Calomel, 
when salivation is intended, to pre- 
vent, by its astringency, the action of 
the Calomel on the bowels, and there- 
by insure its affecting the constitution. 

Oak Bark is an astringent and 
tonic. It is used externally, in the form 
of decoction, to restrain bleeding from 
lacerated surfaces. As a local astrin- 
gent, it is used in the form of decoc- 
tion, as a gargle in sore throat and re- 
laxed uvula. It is used internally in 
the same diseases as Catechu, and when 
combined with aromatics and bitters, 
in intermittent fevers. Dose, of the 
powder, from 15 to 30 grains ; of the 
decoction, from 2 to 8 drams. 

Logwood is not a very satisfactory 
astringent. It is used internally in 
diarrhoea, the last stage of dysentery, 
and a lax state of the intestines. Dose, 
of the extract, from 10 grains to 1 
dram ; of the decoction, from 1 to 3 
ounces, three or four times a day. 

Rose Leaves are astringent and 
tonic. They are used internally in 
spitting of blood, hemorrhage from 
the stomach, intestines, etc., as a gar- 
gle for sore throat, and for the night 
sweats of consumption. The infusion 
is frequently used as a tonic with di- 
luted Sulphuric Acid (Oil of Vitriol), 
after low fevers, or in combination 
with Epsom Salts and Sulphuric Acid 
in certain states of the bowels. Dose, 
of infusion, from 2 to 4 ounces. 

Chalk, when prepared by washing, 
becomes an astringent as well as ant- 
acid. It is used internally in diarrhoea, 
in the form of mixture, and externally 
as an application to burns, scalds, and 
excoriations. Dose, of the mixture, 
from 1 to 2 ounces. 

White Vitriol, or Sulphate of 
Zinc, is an astringent, tonic, and 
emetic. It is used externally as a col- 
lyrium for ophthalmia, and as a deter- 
gent for scrofulous ulcers, in the pro- 
portion of 3 grains of the salt to 1 
ounce of water. It is tised internally 
in indigestion, and many other dis- 



eases ; but it should not be given unleM 
ordered by a physician, as it is a poison. 

Local Stimulants. — Local stimu- 
lants comprise Emetics, Cathartics, 
Diuretics, Diaphoretics, Expectorants, 
Sialagogues, Errhines, and Epispastics. 

Emetics are medicines given for the 
purpose of causing vomiting, as in case.*? 
of poisoning. They consist of Ipecacu 
anha, Camomile, Antimony, Copper, 
Zinc, and several others. 

Ipecacuanha is an emetic, diapho- 
retic, and expectorant. It is used in- 
ternally to excite vomiting, in doses of 
from 10 to 20 grains of the powder, or 

1 to ly ounces of the infusion, every 
half hour until vomiting takes place. 
To make it act well and easily, the 
patient should drink a half pint of 
warm water after each dose of the in- 
fusion. As a diaphoretic, it should be 
given in doses of 3 grains, mixed with 
some soft substance, such as crumbs of 
bread, and repeated every four hours. 
Dose of the wine, from 20 minims to 1 
dram as a diaphoretic, and from 1 
dram to H ounces as an emetic. Cau- 
tion. — Do not give more than the doses 
named above, because, although a safe 
emetic, yet it is an acrid narcotic 
poison. 

Mustard is too woU known to re- 
quire describing. It is an emetic, di- 
uretic, stimulant, and rubefacient. It 
is used externally as a poultice (which 
is made of the powder, bread crumbs, 
and water ; or of 1 part of Mustard to 

2 of flour: Vinegar is not necessary), 
in all cases where a stimulant is re- 
quired, such as sore throat, rheumatic 
pains in the joints, cholera, cramps in 
the extremities, diarrhcea, and many 
other diseases. When applied it should 
not be left on too long, as it is apt to 
cause ulceration of the part. From ten 
to thirty minutes is quite long enough. 
When used internally as an emetic, a 
large teaspoonful mixed with a tumbler 
of warm water generally operates 
quickly and safely, frequently when 
other emetics have failed. In dropsy 
it is sometimes given in the form of 
whey, which is made by boiling ^ an 
ounce of the bruised seeds in a pint of 



128 



YOU ask! — I'l.L tell! 



milk, and straining off the curd. From 
3 to 4 ounces of this is to be taken for 
a dose three time.s a day. 

CATHARTICS are divided into 
laxatives and purgatives. The former 
comprise Manna, Tamarinds, Castor 
Oil, Sulphur, and Magnesia ; the 
latter, Senna, Rhubarb, Jalap, Colo- 
cynth, Buckthorn, Aloes, Cream of 
Tartar, Scammony, Calomel, Epsom 
Salts, Glauber's Salts, Sulphate of 
Potash, and Venice Turpentine. 

Manna is a very gentle laxative, 
and therefore used for children and 
delicate persons. Dose for children, 
from 1 to 2 drams ; and for adults, 
from 1 to 2 ounces, combined with 
Rhubarb and Cinnamon Water. 

Tamarinds are generally laxative 
and refrigerant. As it is agreeable, 
this medicine will generally be eaten 
by children when they will not take 
other medicines. Dose, from ^ to 1 
ounce. As a refrigerant beverage in 
fevers it is extremely grateful. 

Castor Oil is a most valuable 
medicine, as it generally operates 
quickly and mildly. It is tised exter- 
nally, combined with Citron Oint- 
ment, as a topical application in com- 
mon leprosy. It is used internally as 
an ordinary purgative for infants, as a 
laxative for adults, and in diarrhoea and 
dysentery. In colic it is very useful 
and safe ; and also after delivery. Dose, 
for infants, from 40 drops to 2 drams ; 
for adults, from ^ to If ounces. 

Sulphur. — Sublimed Sulphur is 
laxative and diaphoretic. It is used 
externally in skin diseases, especially 
itch, both in the form of ointment and 
as a vapor bath. It is tised internally 
in haemorrhoids, combined with Mag- 
nesia, as a laxative for children, and as 
a diaphoretic in rheumatism. Dose, 
from 1 scruple to 2 drams, mixed in 
milk or with molasses. When com- 
bined with an equal proportion of 
Cream of Tartar, it acta as a purga- 
tive. 

Magnesia. — Calcined Magnesia pos- 
sesses the same properties as the Car- 
bonate. Dose, from 10 to 30 grains, in 
milk or water. Carbonate of Magnesia 



is an antacid and laxatire, and is very 
useful for children when teething, and 
for heartburn in adults. Dose, from 
J to 2 drams, in water or milk. 

Senna is a purgative, but is apt to 
gripe when given alone ; therefore it is 
combined with some aromatic such as 
Cloves or Ginger, and the infusion 
should be made with cold instead of hot 
water. It usually acts in about four 
hours, but its action should be assisted 
by drinking warm fluids. Dose, of the 
confection, commonly called *' lenitive 
electuary," from 1 to 3 or 4 drams at 
bedtime ; of the infusion, from 1 to 2 
ounces ; of the tincture, from 1 to 2 
drams; of the syrup (used for chil 
dren), from 1 dram to 1 ounce. Caution. 
— Do not give Senna, in any form 
except corvfections, in hgeraorrhoids, 
and never in irritability of the intea 
tines. 

Rhubarb is a purgative, astringent, 
and stomachic. It is used externally in 
the form of powder to ulcers, to pro- 
mote a healthy action. It is giver, in- 
ternally in diarrhoea, dyspepsia, and a 
debilitated state of the bowels. Com- 
bined with a mild preparation of 
Calomel, it forms an excellent purga- 
tive for children. Dose, of the itifusion,, 
from 1 to 2 ounces; of the poivder, from 
1 scruple to J a dram as a purgative, and 
from 6 to 10 grains as a stomachic ; of 
the tincture and compound tincture, 
from 1 to 4 drams ; of the compound 
pill, from 10 to 20 grains. 

Jalap is a powerful cathartic and 
hydrogogue, and is therefore apt to 
gripe. Dose, of the powder, from 10 to 
30 grains, combined with a drop or 
two of Aromatic Oil ; of the compound 
powder, from 15 to 40 grains ; of the 
tincture, from 1 to 3 drams ; of the ex- 
tract, from 10 to 20 grains. The 
watery extract is better than the al- 
coholic. 

. CoLOCYNTH is a powerful drastic 
cathartic, and should never be given 
alone, unless ordered by a medical 
man, as its action is too violent for 
some constitutions. Dose, of the ex- 
tract, from 5 to 15 grains ; of the corn- 
potmd extract, from 5 to 15 grains; 



MEDICINES: THEIR PROPERTIES AND DOSES. 129 



of the compound Colocynth pill, the 
best of all its preparations, from 10 to 
20 grains. 

BucKTHOKN is a brisk purgative 
for children in the form of syrup. 
Dose of the syrup, from 1 to 6 drams. 

Aloes is a purgative and cathartic 
in large, and tonic in smaller, doses. 
Dose, of powder, from 2 to 10 grains ; 
combined with Soap, bitter extracts, or 
other purgative medicines, and given 
in the form of pills ; of the compound 
pill, from 5 to 20 grains ; of the pill 
of Aloes and Myrrh, from 5 to 20 
grains ; of the tincture, from 4 drams 
to 1 ounce ; of the compound tincture, 
from 1 to 4 drams ; of the extract, from 
6 to 10 grains ; of the compound decoc- 
tion, from 4 drams to 2 ounces. 

Cream of Tartar is a purgative 
and refrigerant. It is used internally in 
dropsy, especially of the belly, in 
doses of from 1 scruple to 1 dram. As 
a refrigerant drink, it is dissolved in 
hot water, and sweetened with sugar, 
and is used in febrile diseases, care 
being taken not to allow it to rest too 
much upon the bowels. Dose, as a 
purgative, from 2 to 4 drams ; as a 
hydrogogue, from 4 to 6 drams, mixed 
with honey or molasses. Caution. — 
Its use should be followed by tonics, 
especially Gentian and Angostura. 

ScAMMONY is a drastic purgative, 
generally acting quickly and power- 
fully, sometimes producing nausea, 
and even vomiting, and being very apt 
to gripe. It is used internally, to pro- 
duce watery evacuations in dropsy, to 
remove intestinal worms, and correct 
the slimy motions of children. Dose, 
of the powder, from 5 to 16 grains, 
given in Liquorice-water, Molasses, or 
Honey ; of the confection, from 20 to 
30 grains. Caution, — Do not give it 
in an irritable or inflamed state of the 
bowels. 

Epsom Salts is a purgative and di- 
uretic. It generally operates quickly, 
and therefore is extremely useful in 
acute diseases. It is found to be bene- 
ficial in dyspepsia, when combined 
with infusion of Gentian and a little 
Ginger. It forms an excellent enema 
9 



with Olive Oil. Dose, from J to 2 
ounces, dissolved in warm tea oi 
water. Infusion of Eoses partially 
covers its taste and assists its action. 
It is a noted fact with regard to Epsom 
Salts, that the larger the amount of 
water in which they are taken, the 
smaller the dose of Salts required : 
thus ^ an ounce properly dissolved 
may be made a strong dose. The action 
and eflicacy of Epsom Salts may be 
very greatly increased by the addition 
of 1 grain of Tartar Emetic Avith a dose 
of Salts. 

Glauber's Salt is a very good pur- 
gative. Dose, from a J to 2 ounces, dis- 
solved in warm water. 

Sulphate of Potash is a cathartic 
and deobstruent. It is used internally, 
combined with Aloes or Ehubarb, in 
obstructions of the bowels, and an ex- 
cellent saline purgative in dyspepsia 
and jaundice. Dose, of the p>owdered 
salt, from 10 grains to 1 dram. 

Venice Turpentine is cathartic, 
diuretic, stimulant, and anthelmintic. 
It is used externally as a rubefacient, 
and is given internally in flatulent colic, 
in tapeworm, rheumatism, and other 
diseases. Dose, as a diuretic, from 10 
grains to 1 dram ; as a cathartic, from 
10 to 12 drams; as an anthelmintic, 
from 1 to 2 ounces every eight hours, 
till the worm be ejected. 

DIURETICS are medicines which 
promote an increased secretion of urine. 
They consist of Nitre, Acetate of Po- 
tassa, Squills, Juniper, Oil of Tur- 
pentine, and many others, vegetable 
and mineral. 

Nitre is a diuretic and refrigerant. 
It is used externally as a detergent when 
dissolved in water, and as a lotion to 
inflamed and painful rheumatic joints. 
It is given internally in doses of from 
10 grains to ^ a dram, or even 1 dram. 
In spitting blood it is given in 1 dram 
doses with great benefit. As a topical 
application, it is beneficial in sore 
throat, a few grains being allowed to 
dissolve in the mouth. 

Acetate of Potassa is diuretic and 
cathartic. It is given internally in 
dropsy with great benefit, in doses 



130 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



of from 1 scruple to 1 dram, every 
three or four hours, to act as a diu- 
retic in combination with Infusion 
of Quassia. Dose, as a cathartic, from 
2 to 3 drams. 

Squills is diuretic and expectorant 
when given in small doses, and emetic 
and purgative when given in large 
doses. It is used intei-nally in dropsies, 
in combination with Calomel and 
Opium ; in a.sthma,with Ammoniacum; 
in catarrh, in the form of Oxymel. 
Dose, of the dried bulb powdered, from 
1 to 2 grains every six hours ; of the 
compound pill, from 10 to 15 grains; of 
the tincture, from 10 minims to J a 
dram ; of the oxymel, from i^ to 2 
drams ; of the vinegar, from 20 minima 
to 2 drams. 

Juniper is diuretic and stomachic. 
It is given internally in dropsies. Dose, 
of the infusion, from 2 to 3 ounces 
every four hours ; of the oil, from 1 to 
5 minims. 

Oil of Turpentine is a diuretic, 
anthelmintic, and rubefacient. It is 
tLsed externally in flatulent colic, 
sprinkled over flannels dipped in hot 
water and wrung out dry. It is ttsed 
internally in the same diseases aa Ve- 
nice Turpentine. Dose, from 5 minima 
to 2 drams. 

DIAPHORETICS are medicines 
given to increase the secretion from the 
skin by sweating. They comprise 
Acetate of Ammonia, Calomel, Anti- 
mony, Opium, Camphor, and Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Solution of Acetate of Ammo- 
nia is a most useful diaphoretic. It is 
used externally 9tS' a discutient, as a lotion 
to inflamed milk breasts, as an eye- 
wash, and a lotion in scald head. It 
is given internally to promote perspi- 
ration in febrile diseases, which it does 
most effectually, especially when com- 
bined with Camphor mixture. This 
is the article so frequently met with 
in prescriptions, and called Spirits of 
Mindererus [liquor ammonia acetatis). 
Dose, from a ^ to 1 J ounces every three 
or four hours. 

Antimony. — Tartar emetic is dia- 
pl\oretic, emetic, expectorant, altera- 



tive, and rubefacient. It is tised exter- 
nally as an irritant in white swellings 
and deep-seated inflammations, in the 
form of an ointment. It is given in- 
ternally in pleurisy, bilious fevers, and 
many other diseases; but its exhibi- 
tion requires the skill of a medical 
man to watch its eflfects. Dose, from 
J of a grain to 4 grains. Caution. — It 
is a poison, and therefore requires 
great care in its administration. 

Antimonial Powder is a diapho- 
retic, emetic, and alterative. It ia 
given internally, in febrile diseases, to 
produce determination to the skin. 
In rheumatism, when combined with 
Opium or Calomel, it is of great bene- 
fit. Dose, from 3 to 10 grains every 
four hours, taking plenty of warm 
fluids between each dose. 

Sarsaparilla is diaphoretic, alter- 
ative, diuretic, and tonic. It is given 
internally in cutaneous diseases, old- 
standing rheumatism, scrofula, and 
debility. Dose, of the decoction, from 
4 to 8 ounces ; of the compound decoc- 
tion, from 4 to 8 ounces ; of the extract, 
from 5 grains to 1 dram. 

Expectorants are medicines given 
to promote the secretion from the 
windpipe, etc. They consist of Anti- 
mony, Ipecacuanha, Squills, Ammo- 
niacum, and Tolu. 

Ammoniacum is an expectorant, 
antispasmodic, diuretic, and deobstru- 
ent. It is used externally as a discu- 
tient, and is given internally, with great 
benefit, in asthma, hysteria, and 
chronic catarrh. Dose, from 10 to 20 
grains. 

Tolu is an excellent expectorant, 
when there are no inflammatory symp- 
toms. It is given internally in asthma 
and chronic catarrh. Dose, of the 
balsam, from 5 to 30 grains, combined 
with mucilage and suspended in water; 
of the tincture, from a J to 1 dram ; 
of the syrup, from a J to 4 drams. 

Sialagogues are given to increase 
the flow of saliva or spittle. They 
consist of Ginger and Calomel, Pelle- 
tory of Spain, Tobacco, the acids and 
some others. 

Ginger is a sialagogue, carminative. 



MEDICINES: THEIR PROPERTIES AND DOSES. 131 



and stimulant. It is used internally in 
flatulent colic, dyspepsia, and to pre- 
vent tlie griping of medicines. When 
chewed, it acts as a sialagogue, and is 
therefore useful in relaxed uvula. 
Dose, from 10 to 20 grains of the pow- 
der ; of the tincture, from 10 minims 
to 1 dram. 

Epispastics and Rubefacients are 
those remedies which are applied to 
blister and cause redness of the surface. 
They consist of Cantharides, Ammo- 
nia, Burgundy Pitch, and Mustard. 

Cantharides, or Spanish Flies, 
when used internally, are diuretic and 
stimulant ; and epispastic and rube- 
facient, when applied externally. Mode 
of application. — A portion of the blis- 
tering plaster is spread with the 
thumb upon brown paper, linen, or 
leather to the size required ; its surface 
then slightly moistened with Olive Oil, 
and sprinkled with Camphor, and the 
plaster applied by a light bandage ; or 
it is spread on adhesive plaster, and 
attached to the skin by the adhesive 
margin of the plaster. Caution. — If 
a blister is to be applied to the head, 
shave it at least teu hours before it is 
put on ; and it is better to place a thin 
piece of gauze, wetted with vinegar, 
between the skin and the blister. If 
a distressing feeling be experienced 
about the bladder, give warm and 
copious draughts of Linseed Tea, milk, 
or decoction of Quince seeds, and ap- 
ply warm fomentations of milk and 
water to the blistered surface. The 
period required for a blister to remain 
on, varies from eight to ten hours for 
adults, and from twenty minutes to two 
hours for children ; as soon as it is re- 
moved, if the blister is not raised, apply 
a " Spongio-Piline " poultice, and it 
will then rise properly. When it is 
required to act as a rubefacient, the 
blister should remain on from one to 
three hours for adults, and from fifteen 
to forty minutes for children. To dress 
a blister. — Cut the bag or cuticle con- 
taining the serum at the lowest part, 
by snipping it with the scissors, so as 
to form an opening like this — V ; and 
then apply a piece of calico, spread 



with spermaceti, or some other dress- 
ing. Such is the ordinary method; 
but a much better and more expedi- 
tious plan, and one that prevents all 
pain and inconvenience in the heal- 
ing, is, after cutting the blister aa 
directed above, to immediately cover 
it with a warm bread-and-water poul- 
tice for about an hour and a half, and 
on the removal of the poultice to dust 
the raw surface with violet powder; 
apply a handkerchief to retain the 
powder, and lastly dust the part every 
two hours. It will be healed in twelve 
hours. Caution. — Never attempt to 
take Cantharides internally, except 
under the advice of a physician, as it 
is a poison, and requires extreme cau- 
tion in its use. 

Burgundy Pitch is warmed and 
spread upon linen or leather, and ap- 
plied over the chest in cases of catarrh, 
difficult breathing, and whooping- 
cough ; over the loins in debility or 
lumbago ; and over any part that it is 
desirable to excite a mild degree of 
inflammation in. 

Chemical Remedies. — The chemi- 
cal remedies comprise refrigerants, 
antacids, antalkalies, and escharotics. 

Refrigerants are medicines given 
for the purpose of suppressing an un- 
natural heat of the body. They are 
Seville Oranges, Lemons, Tamarinds, 
Nitre, and Cream of Tartar. 

Seville Oranges and Sweet 
Oranges are formed into a refrigerant 
beverage, which is extremely grateful 
in febrile diseases. The rind is an 
agreeable mild tonic, carminative, and 
stomachic. Dose, of the tincture, from 
1 to 4 drams ; of the infusion, from 1 
to 2 ounces. 

Lemons are used to form a refriger- 
ant beverage, which is given to quench 
thirst in febrile and inflammatory 
diseases. Lemon jnice is given with 
Carbonate of Potash (J an ounce of 
the juice to 20 grains of the salt), 
and taken while eflPervescing, allays 
vomiting. A tablespoonful, taken 
occasionally, allays hysterical palpi- 
tations of the heart. It is useful in 
scurvy, caused by eating too much salt 



132 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



food, but requires to be taken with sugar. 
The rind fonus a nice mild tonic and 
stomachic in certain forms of dyspepsia. 
Dose of the infusion (made the same as 
Orange Peel), from 1 to 2 ounces. 

ANTACIDS are given to correct 
acidity in the system. They are Soda, 
Ammonia, Chalk, and Magnesia. 

Soda, Carbonate of, and Sesqui- 
carbonate of Soda, are antacids and de- 
obstruents. They are used internally in 
acidity of the stomach and dyspepsia. 
Dose, of both preparations, from 10 
grains to J a dram. 

ANTALKALIES are given to neu- 
tralize an alkaline state of the system. 
They are Citric Acid, Lemon Juice, 
and Tartaric Acid. 

Citric Acid is used to check pro- 
fuse sweating, and as a substitute for 
lemon juice when it cannot be pro- 
cured. Dose, from 10 to 30 grains. 

Tartaric Acid, when largely di- 
luted, forms an excellent refrigerant 
beverage and antalkali. It enters into 
the composition of extemporaneous 
Soda and Seidlitz Waters. Dose, from 
10 to 30 grains. 

ESCHAROTICS are remedies used 
to destroy the vitality of a part. They 
comprise Lunar Caustic, Bluestone, 
and Solution of Chloride of Zinc. 

Bluestone, or Sulphate of Copper, 
Is used in a solution of from 4 to 15 
grains to the ounce of water, and ap- 
plied to foul and indolent ulcers, by 
means of a rag dipped in it; and is 
rubbed in substance on fungous 
growths, warts, etc., to destroy them. 
Caution. — It is a poison. 

Lunar Caustic, or Nitrate of Silver, 
is an excellent remedy in erysipelas, 
when applied in solution (1 dram of 
the salt to 1 ounce of water), which 
should be brushed all over the inflamed 
part, and for an inch beyond it. This 
blackens the skin, but it soon peels off. 
To destroy warts, proud flesh, and 
unhealthy edges of ulcers, etc., it is 
invaluable; and as an application to 
bed-sores, pencilled over with a solu- 
tion of the same strength, and in the 
same manner, as for erysipelas. Cau- 
tion. — It is a poison. 



Solution of Chloride of Zinc, more 
commonly known as Sir William Bur- 
nett's " Disinfecting Fluid,'' is a valu- 
able escharotic in destroying the parts 
of poisoned wounds, such as the bite 
of a mad dog. It is also very useful 
in restoring the hair after the scalp 
has been attacked with ringworm; 
but its use requires extreme caution, 
as it is a powerful escharotic. In itch, 
diluted (one part to thirty-two) with 
water, it appears to answer very well. 
Caution. — It is a most powerful 
poison. 

Mechanical Remedies.— The me- 
chanical remedies comprise anthelmin- 
tics, demulcents, diluents, and emol- 
lients. 

ANTHELMINTICS are medicines 
given for the purpose of expelling or 
destroying worms. They are Cow- 
hage, Scammony, Male Fern Root, 
Calomel, Gamboge, Tin, and Turpen- 
tine. 

CowHAGE is used to expel the round 
worm, which it does by wounding it 
with the fine prickles. Dose of the 
confection, for a child three or four 
years old, a teaspoonful early, for 
three mornings, followed by a dose 
of Castor Oil. The mechanical an- 
thelmintics are strictly confined to 
those agents which kill the worm in 
the body by piercing its cuticle with 
the sharp darts or spicula? of the cow- 
hage hairs, or the fine metallic points 
of the powdered tin. When these 
drops are employed, they should be 
given in Honey or Molasses for ten or 
fifteen days, and an aperient powder 
every fourth morning, to expel the 
killed worms. 

Male Fern Root is a powerful 
anthelmintic, and an astringent. It is 
used to kill tapeworm. Dose, 3 drams 
of the powdered root mixed in a tea- 
cupful of water, to be taken in the 
morning while in bed, and followed 
by a brisk purgative two hours after- 
wards ; or 30 drops of the ethereal 
tincture, to be taken early in the morn- 
ing- 

Gamboge is a powerful drastic and 

anthelmintic. It is used internally, in 



MEDICINES: THEIR PROPERTIES AND DOSES. 133 



dropsies, and for the expulsion of tape- 
worm ; but its use requires caution, 
as it is an irritant poison. Dose, from 
2 to 6 grains, in the form of pills, com- 
bined with Colocynth, Soap, Rhubarb, 
or Bread-crumbs. 

DEMULCENTS are used to dimin- 
ish irritation, and soften parts by pro- 
tecting them with a viscid matter. 
They are Tragacanth, Linseed, Marsh- 
Mallow, Mallow, Liquorice, Arrow- 
root, Isinglass, Suet, Wax, and Al- 
monds. 

Tragacanth is used to allay tick- 
ling cough, and lubricate abraded 
parts. It is usually given in the form 
of mucilage. Dose, from 10 grains to 
1 dram, or more. 

Linseed is emollient and demul- 
cent. It is used externally, when re- 
duced to powder, as a poultice ; and 
the Oil, combined with Lime-water, 
is applied to burns and scalds. It is 
tised internally as an infusion in diar- 
rhoea, dysentery, and irritation of the 
intestines after certain poisons, and in 
catarrh. Dose of the irifusion, as much 
as the patient pleases. 

Marsh-Mallow is used internally 
in the same diseases as Linseed. The 
leaves are used externally as a fomenta- 
tion, and the boiled roots are bruised 
and applied as an emollient poultice. 
Dose, the same as Linseed. 

Mallow is v^ed externally as a fo- 
mentation and poultice in inflamma- 
tion, and the infusion is used internally 
in dysentery, diseases of the kidneys, 
and the same diseases as Marsh-Mal- 
low. It is also used as an enema. The 
dose is the same as for Linseed and 
Marsh-Mallow. 

Liquorice is an agreeable demul- 
cent, and is given in the form of decoc- 
tion in catarrh, and some forms of 
dyspepsia ; and the extract is used in 
catarrh. Dose, of the extract, from 10 
grains to 1 dram ; of the decoction, 
from 2 to 4 ounces. 

Arrowroot, Isinglass, Almonds, 
Suet, and Wax, are too well known to 
require descriptions. 

DILUENTS are chiefly watery com- 
pounds such as weak tea, water, thin 



Broth, Gruel, weak infusions of Balm, 
Horehound, Pennyroyal, Ground Ivy, 
Mint, and Sage. 

EMOLLIENTS consist of unctuous 
remedies, such as cerates and oint- 
ments, and any materials that combine 
heat with moisture — poultices of 
Bread, Bran, Linseed Meal, Carrots, 
and Turnips. 

Terms used to Express the Prop- 
erties of Medicines. — Absorbents 
are medicines which destroy acidities 
in the stomach and bowels, such as 
Magnesia, Prepared Chalk, etc. 

Alteratives are medicines which 
restore health to the constitution, with- 
out producing any sensible effect, such 
as Sarsaparilla, Sulphur, etc. 

Analeptics are medicines that re- 
store the strength which has been lost 
by sickness, such as Gentian, Bark, 
etc. 

Anodynes are medicines which re- 
lieve pain, and they are divided into 
three kinds. Sedatives, Hypnotics, and 
Narcotics (see these terms). Camphor 
is anodyne as well as narcotic. 

Antacids are medicines which de- 
stroy acidity, such as Lime, Magnesia, 
Soda, etc. 

Antalkalies are medicines given 
to neutralize alkalies in the system, 
Buch as Citric, Nitric, or Sulphuric 
Acids, etc. 

Anthelmintics are medicines used 
to expel and destroy worms from the 
stomach and intestines, such as Tur- 
pentine, Cowhage, Male Fern, etc. 

Antibilious are medicines which 
are useful in bilious affections, such as 
Calomel, etc. 

Antirheumatics are medicines 
used for the cure of rheumatism, such 
as Colchicum, Iodide of Potash, etc. 

Antiscorbutics are medicines 
against scurvy, such as Citric Acid, 
etc. 

Antiseptics are substances used to 
correct putrefaction, such as Bark, Cam- 
phor, Cnarcoal, Vinegar, and Creosote. 

Antispasmodics are medicines 
which possess the power of overcom- 
ing spasms of the muscles, or allaying 
severe pain from any cause uncon- 



134 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



nected with inflammation, such as Va- 
lerian, Ammonia, Opium, and Cam- 
phor. 

Aperients are medicines which 
move the bowels gently, such as Rhu- 
barb, Manna, and Grey Powder. 

Aromatics are cordial, spicy, and 
agreeably-flavored medicines, such as 
Cardamoms, Cinnamon, etc. 

Astringents are medicines which 
contract the fibres of the body, dimin- 
ish excessive discharges, and act indi- 
rectly as tonics, such as Oak Bark, 
Galls, etc. 

Attenuants are medicines which 
are supposed to thin the blood, such 
as Ammoniated Iron, etc. 

Balsa Mies are medicines of a sooth- 
ing kind, such as Tolu, Peruvian Bal- 
sam, etc. 

Carminatives are medicines which 
allay pain in the stomach and bowels, 
and expel flatulence, such as Aniseed 
Water, etc. 

Cathartics are strong purgative 
medicines, such as Jalap, etc. 

Cordials are exhilarating and 
warming medicines, such as Aromatic 
Confection, etc. 

Corroborants are medicines and 
food which increase the strength, 
such as Iron, Gentian, Meat, ana 
Wine. 

Demulcents correct acrimony, di- 
minish irritation, and soften ])art8 by 
covering their surfaces with a mild and 
viscid matter, such as Linseed Tea, 
Gum, Mucilage, Honey, and Marsh- 
Mallow. 

Deobstruents are medicines which 
remove obstructions, such as Iodide of 
Potash, etc. 

Detergents clean the surfaces over 
which they pass, such as Soap, etc. 

Diaphoretics produce perspiration, 
such as Tartrate of Antimony, James's 
Powder, and Camphor. 

Digestives are remedies applied to 
ulcers or wounds to promote the for- 
mation of matter, such as Resin Oint- 
ments, Warm Poultices, etc. 

DiscuTiENTS possess the power of 
repelling or resolving tumors, such as 
Galbanum, Mercury, and Iodine. 



Diuretics act upon the kidneys and 
bladder, and increase the flow of urine, 
such as Nitre, Squills, Cantharides, 
Camphor, Antimony, and Juniper. 

Drastics are violent purgatives, 
such as Gamboge, etc. 

Emetics produce vomiting, or the 
discharge of the contents of the stom- 
ach, such as Mustard and hot water, 
Tartar Emetic, Ipecacuanha, Sulphate 
of Zinc, and Sulphate of Copper. 

Emollients are remedies used ex- 
ternally to soften the parts they are 
applied to, such as Spermaceti, Palm 
Oil, etc. 

EpifiPASTics are medicines which 
blister or cause effusion of serum under 
the cuticle, such as Spanish Flies, Bur- 
gundy Pitch, Rosin, and Galbanum. 

Errhines are medicines which pro- 
duce sneezing, such as Tobacco, etc. 

EsCHAROTios are medicines which 
corrode or destroy the vitality of the 
part to which they are applied, such 
as Lunar Caustic, etc. 

Expectorants are medicines which 
increase expectoration, or the discharge 
from the bronchial tubes, such as Ipe- 
cacuanha, Squills, Opium, Ammonia- 
cum. 

Febrifuges are remedies used in 
fevers, such as all the Antimonials, 
Bark, Quinine, Mineral Acids, Arsenic. 

Hydragogues are medicines which 
OAve the effect of removing the fluid 
of dropsy, by producing watery evao 
nations, such as Gamboge, Calomel, 
etc. 

Hypnotics are medicines that re- 
lieve pain by producing sleep, such aa 
Hops, Henbane, Morphia, Poppy. 

Laxatives are medicines which 
cause the bowels to act rather more 
than natural, such as Manna, etc. 

Narcotics are medicines which 
cause sleep or stupor, and allay pain, 
such as Opium, etc. 

Nutrients are remedies that nour- 
ish the body, such as Su^ar, Sago, etc. 

Paregorics are medicines which 
actually assuage pain, such as Com- 

Eound Tincture of Camphor, Hen- 
ane. Hops, Opium. 
Prophylactics are remedies em- 



GLOSSARY OF TERMS. 



135 



ployed to prevent the attack of any 
particular disease, such as Quinine, 
etc. 

Purgatives are medicines that pro- 
mote the evacuation of the bowels 
Buch as Senna, Aloes, Jalap, Salts. 

Refrigerants are medicines which 
suppress an unusual heat of the body, 
such as Wood Sorrel, Tamarind, etc. 

Rubefacients are medicaments 
which cause redness of the skin, such 
as Mustard, etc. 

Sedatives are medicines which de- 
press the nervous energy, and destroy 
sensation, so as to compose, such as 
Foxglove. (See Paregorics.) 

SiALAGOGUES are medicines which 
promote the flow of saliva or spittle, 
such as Salt, Calomel, etc. 

Soporifics are medicines which in- 
duce sleep, such as Hops, etc. 

Stimulants are remedies which in- 
crease the action of the heart and ar- 
teries, or the energy of the part to which 



they are applied, such as Food, Wine, 
Spirits, Ether, Sassafras, which is an 
internal stimulant, and Savine, which 
is an external one. 

Stomachics restore the tone of the 
stomach, such as Gentian, etc. 

Styptics are medicines which con- 
strict the surface of a part, and pre- 
vent the effusion of blood, such at^ 
Kino, Friar's Balsam, Extract of Lead, 
and Ice. 

SuDORlFics promote profuse perspi- 
ration or sweating, such as Ipecacu- 
anha, Antimony, James's Powder, 
Ammonia. 

Tonics give general strength to the 
constitution, restore the natural ener- 
gies, and improve the tone of the sys- 
tem, such as all the vegetable Bitters, 
most of the minerals, also some kinds 
of food. Wine, and Beer. 

Vesicants are medicines which 
blister, such as strong Liquid Ammo- 
nia, etc. 



EVERY ONE HIS OWN SURGEON. 

How TO Act on an Emergency — Ways to Distinguish Trivial from 
Serious Accidents — Simple Modes op Treatment. 



Domestic Surgery. — This will 
comprise such liints and advice as will 
enable any one to act on an emer- 
gency, or in ordinary trivial accidents 
requiring simple treatment : and also 
to distinguish between serious and 
simple accidents, and the best means 
to adopt in all cases that are likely to 
fall under a person's notice. These 
hints will be of the utmost value to 
heads of families, to emigrants, and to 
persons who are frequently called upon 
to attend the sick. We strongly re- 
commend the parent, emigrant, and 
nurse, to read over these directions occa- 
sionally, — to regard it as a duty to do 
so at least three or four times a year, — 
so as to be prepared for emergencies 
whenever they may arise. When ac- 
cidents occur, people are too excited 
to acquire immediately a knowledge of 
what they should do ; and many lives 
have been lost for want of this knowl- 
edge. Study, therefore, at moderate 
intervals, the Domestic Surgery, Treat- 
ment of Poisons, Rules for the Prevention 
of Accidents, How to Escape from Fires, 
tli-e Domestic Phartnacop(eia, etc., which 
will be found in various pages. And 
let it be impressed upon your mind 
that THE INDEX will enable you to 
refer to anything you may require IN 

A MOMENT. 

DRESSINGS. — The.se are sub- 
stances usually applied to parts for the 
purpose of soothing, promoting their 
re-union when divided, protecting 
them from external injuries, as a means 
of applying various medicines, to ab- 
sorb discharges, protect the surround- 
ing parts, and insure cleanliness. 
136 



Certain Instruments are required 
for the application of dressings in do- 
mestic surgery, viz., — scissors, a pair 
of tweezers or simple forceps, a knife, 
ueedlea and thread, a razor, a lancet, 
a piece of lunar caustic in a quill, and 
a sponge. 

The Materials required for 
dressings con.sist of lint, scraped linen, 
carded cotton, tow, ointment spread on 
calico, adhesive plaster, compresses, 
pads, bandages, poultices, old rags of 
linen or calico, and water. 

The following Rules should be 
attended to in applying dressings : — 
1. Always prepare the new dressing 
before removing the old one. 2. Al- 
ways have hot and cold water at hand, 
and a vessel to place the foul dressings 
in. 3. Have one or more persons at 
hand ready to assist, and tell each 
person what they are to do before you 
commence — it prevents confusion; thus 
one is to wash out and hand the 
sponges, another to heat the adhesive 
plaster, or hand the bandages and 
dressings, and, if requisite, a third to 
support the limb, etc. 4. Always 
stand on the outside of a limb to dress 
it. 5. Place the patient in as easy a 
position as possible, so as not to fa- 
tigue him. (3. Arrange the bed after 
changing the dressings ; but in some 
cases you will have to do so before the 
patient is placed on it. 7. Never be 
in a hurry when applying dressings 
— do it quietly. 8. When a patient 
requires moving from one bed to 
another, the best way is for one person 
to stand on each side of the patient, 
and each to place an arm behind his 



DOMESTIC SURGERY. 



IGT 



back, while he passes his arms over 
their necks, then let their other arms 
be passed under his thighs, and by 
holding each other's hands, the patient 
can be raised with ease, and removed 
to another bed. If the leg is injured, 
a third person should steady it ; and 
if the arm, the same precaution should 
be adopted. Sometimes a stout sheet 
is passed under the patient, and by 
several people holding the sides, the 
patient is lifted without any fatigue or 
much disturbance. 

Lint may be made in a hurry by 
nailing the corners of a piece of old 
linen to a board, and scraping its sur- 
face with a knife. It is used either 
alone or spread with ointment. 
Scraped lint is the fine filaments from 
ordinary lint, and is used to stimulate 
ulcers and absorb discharges. 

Scraped Lint is made into various 
shapes for particular purposes. For 
example, when it is screwed up into a 
conical or wedge-like shape, it is called 
a tent, and is used to dilate fistulous 
openings, so as to allow the matter to 
escape freely ; to plug wounds, so as to 
promote the formation of a clot of 
blood, and thus arrest bleeding. When 
it is rolled into little balls they are 
called boulettes, and are used for ab- 
sorbing matter in cavities, or blood in 
wounds. Another useful form is made 
by rolling a mass of scraped lint into 
a long roll, and then tying it in the 
middle with a piece of thread ; the 
middle is then doubled and pushed 
into a deep-seated wound, so as to 
press upon the bleeding vessel, while 
the ends remain loose and assist in 
forming a clot ; or it is used in deep- 
seated ulcers to absorb the matter and 
keep the edges apart. This form is 
called the bourdonnet. Another form 
is called the pelote, which is merely a 
ball of scraped lint tied up in a piece 
of linen rag, commonly called a dab- 
ber. This is used in the treatment of 
protrusion of the naval in children. 

Carded Cotton is used as a dress- 
ing for superficial burns, and care 
should be taken to free it from specks, 
as flies are apt to lay their eggs there, 



and generate maggots. 

Tow IS CHIEFLY EMPLOYED as a 

padding for splints, as a compress, and 
also as an outer dressing where there 
is much discharge from a surface. 

Ointments are spread on calicoes, 
lint, or even thin layers of tow. by 
means of a knife ; they should not be 
spread too thick. 

Adhesive Plaster is cut into 
strips, ranging in width, according to 
the nature of the wound, etc., but the 
usual width is about three-quarters of 
an inch. Isinglass plaster is not so 
irritating as Diachylon, and is more 
easily removed. 

Compresses are made of pieces of 
linen, calico, lint, or tow, doubled or 
cut into various shapes. They are 
used to confine dressings in their 
places, and to apply an equal pressure 
on parts. They should be free from 
darns, hems, and knots. Ordinary com- 
presses are square, oblong, and triangu- 
lar. The pierced compress is made by 
folding up a square piece of linen five 
or six times on itself, and then nicking 
the surface with scissors, so as to cut out 
small pieces. It is then opened out, 
and spread with ointment. It is applied 
to discharging surfaces, for the purpose 
of allowing the matter to pass freely 
through the holes, and is frequently 
covered with a thin layer of tow. 
Compresses are also made in the shape 
of a Maltese cross, and half a cross, 
sometimes split singly, and at other 
times doubly, or they are graduated 
by placing square pieces of folded 
cloth on one another, so arranged that 
they decrease in size each time. They 
are used for keeping up pressure upon 
certain parts. 

Pads are made by sewing tow in- 
side pieces of linen, or folding linen 
and sewing the pieces together. They 
are used to keep off" pressure from parts, 
such as that caused by splints in frac- 
tures. 

Poultices are usually made of 
Linseed Meal, Oatmeal, or Bread, 
either combined with water or other 
fluids ; sometimes they are made of 
Carrots, Charcoal, Potatoes, Yeast, and 



13^ 



YOU ask! — I'll tel: 



Linseed Meal, Mustard, etc., bat the 
best and most economical kind of Poul- 
tice is a fabric made of Sponge and 
Wool felted together, and backed by 
India rubber. It is called " Mark- 
wick's Patent Spongio-Piline." The 
method of using this Poultice is as 
follows : — A piece of the material of 
the required form and size is cut off, 
and the edges are pared or bevelled 
off, with a pair of scissors, so that the 
caoutchouc may come in contact with 
the surrounding skin, in order to pre- 
vent evaporation of the fluid used; 
for, as it only forms the vehicle, we 
can employ the various Poultices gen- 
erally used with Tiuch less expenditure 
of time and money, and increased 
cleanliness. For example, — Vinegar 
Poultice is made by moistening the 
fabric with distilled vinegar ; an Alum 
Poultice, by using a strong solution of 
alum ; a Charcoal Poultice, by sprink- 
ling powdered charcoal on the moist- 
ened surface of the material ; a Yeast 
Poultice, by using warm yeast, and 
moistening the fabric with hot water, 
which is to be well squeezed out pre- 
vious to the absorption of the yeast ; a 
Beer Poultice, by employing warm 
porter-dregs or strong bee»r as the 
fluid ; and a Carrot Poultice, by using 
the expressed and evaporated liquor 
of boiled carrots. (If the Spongio- 
Piline cannot be obtained at the 
apothecaries, cut a piece of sponge the 
size required, and J inch thick, and with 
a few stitches sew it on a piece of oil 
silk, or rubber-cloth, and use as di- 
rected for the Spongio-Piline.) As a 
fomentation it is most invaluable, and 
by moistening the material with Com- 
pound Camphor Liniment or Harts- 
horn, it acts the same as a Mustard 
Poultice. 

BANDAGES. — Bandages are strips 
of calico, linen, flannel, muslin, elastic 
webbing, bunting, or some other sub- 
stance, of various lengths, such as 
three, four, eight, ten, or twelve yards, 
and one, one and a half, two, two and 
a half, three, four, and six inches wide, 
free from hems or darns, soft and un- 
glazed. They are better after they 



have been washed. Their uses are to 
retain dressing apparatus, or parts of 
the body in their proper positions, sup- 
port the soft parts, and maintain equal 
pressure. 

Bandages are Simple and Com- 
pound ; the former are simple slips 
rolled up tightly like a roll of ribbon. 
There is also another simple kind, 
which is rolled from both ends — this is 
called a double-headed bandage. The 
compound bandages are formed of 
many pieces. 

Bandages for the Head should 
be two inches wide and five yards long ; 
for the neck, two inches wide and 
three yards long ; for the ?.rm, two 
Inches wide and seven yards long ; for 
the leg, two inches and a half wide and 
seven yards long ; for the thigh, three 
inches wide and eight yards long ; and 
for the body, four or six inches wide 
and ten or twelve yards long. 

To APPLY A Single-Headed Band- 
age, lay the outside of the end next to 
the part to be bandaged, and hold the 
roll between the little, ring, and 
middle fingers, and the palm of the left 
hand, using the thumb and forefinger 
of the same hand to guide it, and the 
right hand to keep it firm, and pass 
the bandage partly round the leg 
towards the left hand. It is sometimes 
necessary to reverse this order, and 
therefore it is well to be able to use 
both hands. Particular parts require a 
diflerent method of applying bandages, 
and therefore we shall describe the most 
useful separately ; and there are dif- 
ferent ways of putting on the same 
bandage, which consist in the manner 
the folds or turns are made. For exam- 
ple, the circular bandage is formed by 
horizontal turns, each of which over- 
laps the one made before it ; the spiral 
consists of spiral turns ; the oblique fol- 
lows a course oblique or slanting to 
the centre of the limb ; and the recur- 
rent folds back again to the part whence 
it started. 

Circular Bandages are used for 
the neck, to retain dressings on any 
part of it, or for blisters, setons, etc. ; 
for the head, to keep dressings on the 



DOMESTIC SURGERY. 



139 



forehead or any part contained within 
a circle passing round the head ; for 
the arm, previous to bleeding ; for the 
leg, above the knee ; and for the fingers, 
etc. 

To Confine the Ends of Band- 
ages some persons use pins, others slit 
the end for a short distance, and tie 
the two strips into a knot, and some 
use a strip of adhesive plaster. Always 
place the point of a pin in such a po- 
sition that it cannot prick the patient, 
or the person dressing the limb, or be 
liable to draw out by using the limb ; 
therefore, as a general rule, turn the 
head of the pin from the free end of 
the bandage, or toward the upper part 
of the limb. The best mode is to sew 
the bandage on. A few stitches will 
hold it more securely than pins can. 

The Oblique Bandage is gener- 
ally used for arms and legs, to retain 
dressings. 

The Spiral Bandage is generally 
applied to the trunk and extremities, 
but is apt to fall off even when very 
carefully applied ; therefore we gener- 
ally use another, called the Recurrent, 
which folds back again. 

The Recurrent Bandage is the 
best kind of bandage that we can em- 
ploy for general purposes. The method 
of putting it on is as follows : — Apply 
the end of the bandage that is free, 
with the outside of it next the skin, 
and hold this end with the finger and 
thumb of the left hand, while some 
one supports the heel of the patient ; 
then, with the right hand, pass the 
bandage over the piece you are hold- 
ing, and keep it crossed thus, until 
you can place your right forefinger 
upon the spot where it crosses the 
other bandage, where it must be kept 
firm. Now hold the roll of the band- 
age in your left hand, with the palm 
turned upwards, taking care to keep 
that part of the bandage between your 
right forefinger and the roll in your left 
hand quite slack; turn your left hand 
over, and bring the bandage down 
upon the leg ; then pass the roll under 
the leg toward your right hand, and 
repeat this until the leg is bandaged 



up to the knee, taking care not to drag 
the bandage at any time during the 
process of bandaging. When you 
arrive at the knee, pass the bandage 
round the leg in circles just below the 
knee, and pin it as usual. Bandaging 
is very easy, and if you once see any 
one apply a bandage properly, and at- 
tend to these rules, there will not be 
any difliculty ; but bear one thing in 
mind, without which you will never 
put on a bandage even decently, and 
that is, never to drag or pull at a band- 
age, but make the turns while it is 
slack, and you have your right fore- 
finger placed upon the point where it 
is to be folded down. When a limb ii4 
properly bandaged, the folds should 
run in a line corresponding to the 
shin-bone. Use, to retain dressings, 
and for varicose veins. 

A Bandage for the Chest is al- 
ways placed upon the patient in a sit- 
ting posture ; and it may be put on in 
circles, or spirally. Use, in fractures 
of the ribs, to retain dressings, and 
after severe contusions. 

A Bandage for the Belly is 
placed on the patient as directed in 
the last, carrying it spirally from above 
downwards. Use, to compress the belly 
after dropsy, or retain dressings. 

The Hand is Bandaged by cross- 
ing the bandage over the back of the 
hand. Use, to retain dressings. 

For the Head, a bandage may be 
circular or spiral, or both ; in the lat- 
ter case, commence by placing one cir- 
cular turn just over the ears; then 
bring down from left to right, and 
round the head again, so as to alter- 
nate a spiral with a circular turn. Use, 
to retain dressings on the head or over 
the eye ; but this form soon gets slack. 
The circular bandage is the best, cross- 
ing it over both eyes. 

For the Foot. — Place the end just 
above the outer ankle, and make two 
circular turns, to prevent its slipping ; 
then bring it down from the inside of 
the foot over the instep toward the 
outer part ; pass it under the sole of 
the foot, and upward and inward over 
the instep toward the inner ankle, then 



]iO 



YOU ask! — i'lt. tell! 



round the ankle and repeat again. Use, 
to retain dressings to the instep, heel, 
or ankle. 

For the Leg and Foot, commence 
and proceed as directed in the preced- 
ing paragraph ; then continue it up 
the leg as ordered in the Recurrent 
Bandage. 

As IT SOMETIMES HAPPENS that it 

is necessary to apply a bandage at 
once, and the materials are not at 
hand, it is desirable to know how to 
substitute something else that any one 
may apply with ease. This is found to 
be effected by handkerchiefs, and an 
experienced surgeon (Mr. Mayor) has 
(.aid great attention to this subject, 
and brought it to much perfection. It 
is to him, therefore, that we are in- 
debted for most of these hints. 

Any ordinary Handkerchief 
will do; but a square piece of linen 
folded into various shapes answers bet- 
ter. The shapes generally required are 
as follows : — The triangle, the long 
square, the cravat, and the cord. 

The Triangular Handkerchief 
is made by folding it from corner to 
corner. Use, as a bandage for the head. 
Application. — Place the base round the 
head, and the short part hanging down 
behind ; then tie the long ends over it. 

The Long Square is made by fold- 
ing the handkerchief into three parts, 
by doubling it once upon itself Use, 
as a bandage to the ribs, belly, etc. If 
one handkerchief is not long enough, 
sew two together. 

The Cravat is folded as usual with 
cravats. Use, as a bandage for the head, 
arms, legs, feet, neck, etc. 

The Cord is used to compress ves- 
sels, when a knot is made in it, and 
placed over the vessel to be com- 
pressed. It is merely a handkerchief 
twisted in its long diameter. 

Two OR MORE Handkerchiefs 
must sometimes be applied, as in a 
broken collar-bone, or when it is ne- 
cessary to keep dressings under the 
arm. The bandage is applied by 
knotting the two ends of one handker- 
chief together, and passing the left 
arm throujjh it, then passing another 



handkerchief under the right arm, 
and tying it. By this means we can 
brace the shoulders well back, and the 
handkerchief will press firmly over the 
broken collar-bone ; besides, this form 
of bandage does not readily slip or get 
slack, but it requires to be combined 
with the sling, in order to keep the arm 
steady. 

For an Inflamed Breast that re- 
quires support, or dressings to be kept 
to it, tie two ends of the handkerchief 
round the neck, and bring the body 
of it over the breast, and pass it up- 
wards and backwards under the arm 
of that side, and tie the ends around th« 
neck. 

AN Excellent Sling is formed by 
placing one handkerchief around the 
neck, and knotting the two ends over 
the breast-bone, then placing the other 
in triangle under the arm, to be sup- 
ported with the base near to the 
hand : tie the ends over the handker- 
chief, and pin the top to the other 
part, after passing it around the elbow. 

APPARATUS. — When a person 
receives a severe contusion of the leg 
or foot, or breaks his leg, or has pain- 
ful ulcers over the leg, or is unable 
from some cause to bear the pressure 
of the bedclothes, it is advisable to 
know how to keep them from hurting 
the leg. This may be done by bending 
up a fire-guard, or placing a chair, 
resting upon the edge of its back and 
front of the seat, over the leg, or 
putting a box on each side of it, and 
placing a board over them. But the 
best way is to make a cradle, as it is 
called. This is done by getting three 
pieces of wood, and three pieces of iron 
wife, and passing the wire or hoop 
through the wood. This can be placed 
to any height, and is very useful in all 
cases where pressure cannot be borne. 
Wooden hoops cut in halves answer 
better than the wire. 

When a Person Breaks his Leg, 
and splints cannot be had directly, get 
bunches of straw or twigs, roll them 
up in handkerchiefs, and placing one 
on each side of the leg or arm, bind 
another handkerchief firmly around 



DOMESTIC SURGERY. 



141 



them ; or make a long bag about tbree 
inches in diameter, or even more, of 
coarse linen duck, or carpet, and stuff 
this full of bran, sawdust, or sand, sew 
up the end, and use this the same as 
the twigs. It forms an excellent ex- 
temporaneous splint. Another good 
plan is to get a hat-box made of chip, 
and cut it into suitable lengths. Or for 
want of all these, some bones out of a 
pair of stays, and run them through a 
stout piece of rug, protecting the leg 
with a fold of rug, linen, etc. A still 
better splint, or set of splints, can be 
extemporized by cutting a sheet of 
thick pasteboard into proper - sized 
slips, then passing each piece through 
a basin of hot water to soften it. It is 
then applied to the fractured limb like 
an ordinary splint, when it hardens as 
it dries, taking the exact shape of the 
part to which it is applied. 

When Dry Warmth is Required 
to be applied to any part of the body, 
fry a flour pancake, and lay it over the 
part ; or warm some sand, and place 
in the patient's socks, and lay it to the 
part ; salt does as well, and may be 
put into a paper bag ; or warm water 
put into ginger-beer bottles or stone 
jars, and rolled up in flannel. 

Minor Operations. — Bleeding is 
sometimes necessary at once in certain 
accidents, such as concussion, and 
therefore it is well to know how to do 
this. First of all, bind up the arm 
above the elbow with a piece of band- 
age, or a handkerchief, pretty firmly, 
then place your finger over one of the 
veins at the bend of the arm, and feel 
if there is any pulsation ; if there is, 
try another vein, and if it does not 
pulsate or beat, choose that one. Now 
rub the arm from the wrist towards the 
elbow, place the left thumb upon the 
vein, and hold the lancet as you would 
a pen, and nearly at right angles to 
the vein, taking care to prevent its 
going in too far, by keeping the thumb 
near to the point, and resting the hand 
upon the little finger. Now place the 
point of the lancet on the vein, push it 
suddenly inwards, depress the elbow, 
and raise the hand upwards and out- 



wards, so as to cut obliquely across the 
vein. When sufficient blood is drawn 
off, which is known by feeling the j>ulse 
at the wrist and near the thumb, band- 
age the arm. If the pulse feel like a 
piece of cord, more blood should be 
taken away; but if it is soft, and can 
be easily pressed, the bleeding should 
be stopped. When you bandage the 
arm, place a piece of lint over the 
opening made by the lancet, and pass 
a bandage lightly but firmly around 
the arm, so as to cross it over the 
bend of the elbow, in the form of a 
figure 8. 

Dry Cupping is performed by 
throwing a piece of paper dipped into 
spirit of wine, and ignited, into a wine- 
glass, and placing it over the part, such 
as the neck, temples, etc. It thus draws 
the flesh into the glass, and causes a de- 
termination of blood to the part, which 
is useful in headache, and many other 
complaints. This is an excellent 
method of extracting the poison from 
wounds made by adders, mad dogs, fish, 
etc. 

Ordinary Cupping is performed 
the same as Dry Cupping, with this 
exception, that the part is scarified or 
scratched with a lancet, so as to cause 
the blood to flow, or by the applica- 
tion of a scarificator, which makes by 
one action from seven to twenty-one 
light superficial cuts. Then the glass 
is placed over it again with the lighted 
paper in it, and when sufficient blood 
has been taken away, then the parts 
are sponged, and a piece of sticking- 
plaster applied over them. 

Leeches, and their Application. — 
The Leech used for medical purposes 
is called the Hirudo medicinalis, to dis- 
tinguish it from other varieties, such 
as the Horse Leech and the Lisbon 
Leech. It varies from two to four 
inches in length, and is of a blackish- 
brown color, marked on the back with 
six yellow spots, and edged with a 
yellow line on each side. 

When Leeches are applied to a 
part, it should be thoroughly freed 
from down or hair by shaving, and all 
liniments, etc., carefully and eifectu- 



142 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



ally cleaned away by washing. If the 
Leech is hungry it will soon bite, but 
sometimes great difficulty is experi- 
enced in getting them to fasten. When 
this is the case, roll the Leech into a 
little porter, or moisten the surface 
with a little blood or milk, or sugar 
and water. Leeches may be applied 
bj holding them over the part with a 
piece of linen cloth, or by ineans of 
an inverted glass, under which they 
must be placed. 

When applied to the Gums, care 
should be taken to use a Leech glass, 
as they are apt to creep down the 
patient's throat: a large swan's quill 
will answer the purpose of a Leech 
glass. When Leeches are gorged they 
will drop off themselves. Never tear 
them off from a person, but just dip 
the point of a moistened finger into 
some salt, and touch them with it. 

Leeches are supposed to ab- 
stract about 2 drams of blood, or six 
leeches draw about an ounce ; but this 
is independent of the bleeding after 
they have come off, and more blood 
generally flows then than during the 
time they are sucking. The total 
amount of blood drawn and subse- 
quently lost by each Leech- bite, is 
nearly half an ounce. 

After Leeches come away, en- 
courage the bleeding by flannels dipped 
in hot water, and wrung out dry, and 
then apply a warm " Spongio-Piline " 
poultice. If the bleeding is not to be 
encouraged, cover the bites with a rag 
dipped in Olive Oil, or spread with 
Spermaceti Ointment, having previ- 
ously sponged the parts clean. 

When Bleeding continues from 
Leech-bites, and it is desirable to stop 
it, apply pressure with the fingers over 
the part, or dip a rag in a strong so- 
lution of Alum and lay over them, or 
use the tincture of Sesquichloride of 
Iron, or apply a leaf of Matico to 
them, placing the under surface of 
the leaf next to the skin, or touch 



each bite with a finely-pointed piece 
of Lunar Caustic, or lay a piece of 
Lint soaked in the Extract of Lead 
over the bites ; and if all these tried 
in succession fail, pass a fine needle 
through a fold of the skin so as to in- 
clude the bite, and twist a piece of 
thread round it. Be sure never to 
allow any one to go to sleep with 
Leech-bites bleeding, without watch- 
ing them carefully ; and never apply 
too many to children ; or place them 
where their bites can be compressed if 
necessary. In other words, never apply 
Leeches to children except over a bone. 

After Leeches have been used, 
they should be placed in water con- 
taining sixteen per cent, of Salt, which 
facilitates the removal of the blood 
they contain ; and they should after- 
wards be placed one by one in warm 
water, and the blood forced out by 
gentle pressure. The Leeches should 
then be thrown into fresh water, which 
is to be renewed every twenty-four 
hours ; and they may then be re-ap- 
plied after an interval of eight or ten 
days : a second time they may be dis- 
gorged. The best plan, however, is to 
strip the Leech by drawing the thumb 
a»d forefinger of the right hand along 
its body from the tail to the mouth, 
the Leech being firmly held at the 
sucker extremity by the fingers of the 
left hand. By this means, with a few 
minutes' rest between each applica- 
tion, the same Leech may be used four 
or five times in succession. 

If a Leech be accidentally 
Swallowed, or by any means should 
get into the body, employ an emetic, 
or enema of Salt and Water. 

Scarification is useful in severe 
contusions and inflammation of parts. 
It is performed by scratching or 
slightly cutting through the skin with 
a lancet, holding the lancet as you 
would a pen when you are ruling lines 
on paper. 



HOW TO PRESERVE HEALTH. 

Ounces op Prevention Worth Many Pounds op Cure — Cleanliness 
AND Exercise Should be Scrupulously Observed. 



Rules for the Preservation of 
Health. — Health is a word of Saxon 
origin, signifying, as our readers are 
aware, freedom from bodily pain or 
sickness. This is a blessing which few 
enjoy in an unimpaired state, in this 
highly artificial condition of things ; 
and when we say that a person is 
healthy, we must be understood to 
mean comparatively rather than posi- 
tively so. Latterly the term normal has 
been much used in scientific writings 
to signify a natural or good state of 
Health : but in this signification we 
might as well keep to the good old 
Saxon term, helth, which is but an- 
other form of heal, as it expresses 
the same thing equally well, indeed 
better. 

" Though health may be enjoyed 
without gratitude, it cannot be sported 
with without loss, nor regained by 
courage," says a great writer ; and 
truly it were well if men kept this say- 
ing in mind, for there is scarcely any 
earthly blessing they hold so lightly, 
nor deplore so deeply the loss of. 
What, we may ask, is a state of perfect 
health ? If a man eat well, and sleep 
well, and perform his allotted duties 
with ease and comfort ; if there is a 
proper performance of all his bodily 
functions, so that he is not afiected 
by any unpleasant sensation or pain, 
we may conclude that his health is in 
the highest possible condition. 

Wholesome diet, moderately enjoyed, 
personal cleanliness, regular exercise, 
pure air, and an avoidance of undue 
mental excitement and bodily excesses 
• — these are the grand preservatives of 



health. Inherited diseases cannot be 
guarded against, nor can accidents, nor 
the contraction of contagious or infec- 
tious diseases — these are the bodily 
ills to whicii the flesh is certainly heir, 
but these form a very small proportion 
of the ills that do afiiict humanity ; 
and it is a reproach alike to the com- 
mon sense and the religious character 
of this so-called enlightened age, that 
health should be squandered as it is. 
If we really wish, as we pray, to have 
" a sound mind in a sound body," let 
us strive to preserve the body sound 
when we have it so ; for, without it, 
the mind is scarcely likely to be really 
healthfVil. 

Pure Atmospheric Air is com- 
posed of nitrogen, oxygen, and a very 
small proportion of carbonic acid gas. 
Air once breathed has lost the chief 
part of its oxygen, and acquired a 
proportionate increase of carbonic acid 
gas. Therefore, health requires that 
we breathe the same air once only. 

The Solid Part of our Bodies is 
continually wasting, and requires to be 
repaired by fresh substances. There- 
fore, food, which is to repair the loss, 
should be taken with due regard to the 
exercise and waste of the body. 

The Fluid Part of our Bodies 
also wastes constantly ; there is but 
one fluid in animals, which is water. 
Therefore, water only is necessary, 
and no artifice can produce a better 
drink. 

The Fluid of our Bodies is to 
the solid in proportion as nine to one. 
Therefore, a like proportion should 
prevail in the total amount of food 
143 



144 



Tou ask! — t'll tet.i. 



taken. 

Light exercises an important 
INFLUENCE upon the growth and vigor 
of animals and plants. Therefore, our 
dwellings should freely admit the solar 
rays. 

D ROOM POSING ANIMATi AND VEGE- 
TABLE Substances yield various 
noxious gases, which enter the lungs 
and corrupt the blood. Therefore, all 
impurities should be kept away from 
our abodes, and every precaution be 
observed to secure a pure atmosphere. 
Warmth is essential to all the 
bodily functions. Therefore, an equal 
bodily temperature should be main- 
tained by exercise, by clothing, or by 
fire. 

Exercise warms, invigorates, 
and purifies the body ; clothing pre- 
serves the warmth the body generates ; 
fire imparts warmth externally. There- 
fore, to obtain and preserve warmth, 
exercise and clothing are preferable to 
fire. 

FiRB consumes the Oxygen of 
the air, and produces noxious gases. 
Therefore, the air is less pure in the 
presence of candles, gas, or coal fire, 
than otherwise, and the deterioration 
should be repaired by increased ven- 
'tilation. 

The Skin is a highly-organized 
Membrane, full of minute pores, cells, 
bloodvessels, and nerves. It imbibes 
moisture or throws it off, according to 
the state of the atmosphere and the 
temperature of the body. It alec 
"breathes," as do the lungs (though 
less actively). All the internal organs 
sympathize with the skin. Therefore, 
it should be repeatedly cleansed. 

Late Hours and Anxious Pur- 
suits exhaust the nervous system, and 
produce disease and premature death. 
Therefore, the hours of labor and study 
ebould be short. 

Mental and Bodily Exercise 
are equally essential to the general 
health and happiness. Therefore, 
labor and study should succeed each 
other. 

Man will Live most Healthily 
upon simple solids and fluids, of which 
a sufficient but temperate quantity 



should be taken. Therefore, over-in- 
dulgence in strong drinks, tobacco, 
snufF, opium, and all mere indulgences, 
should be avoided. 

Sudden Alternations of Heat 
AND Cold are dangerous (especially 
to the young and the aged). Therefore, 
clothing, in quantity and quality, 
should be adapted to the alternations 
of night and day, and of the seasons. 
And therefore, also, drinking cold water 
when the body is hot, and hot tea and 
soups when cold, are productive of 
many evils. 

Moderation in eating and drink- 
ing, short hours of labor and study, 
regularity in exercise, recreation, and 
rest, cleanliness, equanimity of temper 
and equality of temperature, — these 
are the great essentials to that which 
surpasses all wealth, — health of mind 
and body. 

BATHING-.— If to preserve health 
be to save medical expenses, without 
even reckoning upon time and comfort, 
there is no part of the household 
arrangement so important to the 
domestic economist as cheap conve- 
nience for personal ablution. For this 
purpose baths upon a large and expen- 
sive scale are by no means necessary ; 
but though temporary or tin baths 
may be extremely useful upon press- 
ing occasions, it will be found to be 
finally as cheap, and much more 
readily convenient, to have a perma- 
nent bath constructed, which may be 
done in any dwelling-house of moder- 
ate size, without interfering with other 
general purposes. As the object of 
these remarks is not to present essays, 
but merely useful economic hints, it is 
unnecessary to expatiate upon the 
architectural arrangement of the bath, 
or, more properly speaking, the bath- 
ing-place, which may be fitted up for 
the most retired establishment, differ- 
ing in size or shape agreeably to the 
spare room that may be appropriated 
to it, and serving to exercise both the 
fancy and the judgment in its prepara- 
tion. Nor is it particularly necessary 
to notice the salubrious eflfects resulting 
from the bath, beyond the two points 



RULES FOR THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 145 



of its being so conducive to both 
health and cleanliness, in keeping up 
a free circulation of the blood, without 
any violent muscular exertion, thereby 
really affording a saving of strength, 
and producing its effects without any ex- 
pense either to the body or to the purse. 

Whoever fits up a Bath in a 
house already built must be guided by 
circumstances ; but it will always be 
proper to place it as near the kitchen 
fireplace as possible, because from 
thence it may be heated, or at least 
have its temperature preserved, by 
means of hot air through tubes, or by 
steam prepared by the culinary fire- 
place, without interfering with ita 
ordinary uses. 

Temperature of Baths. — From 
50° to 75° of Fahrenheit is called a cold 
bath ; from 75° to 85° a temperate batb ; 
from 85° to 95° a tepid bath ; from 95° 
to 98° (which is the heat of the surface 
of the body) is called a warm bath ; 
from 98° to 105° is a hot bath. 

CLEANLINESS.— The want of 
cleanliness is a fault which admits of 
no excuse. Where water can be had 
for nothing, it is surely in the power 
of every person to be clean. 

The Discharge from our Bod- 
ies by perspiration renders frequent 
changes of apparel necessary. 

Change of Apparel greatly pro- 
motes the secretion from the skin, so 
necessary to health. 

When that Matter which ought 
to be carried off by perspiration is 
either retained in the body or reab- 
sorbed in dirty clothes, it is apt to 
occasion fevers and other diseases. 

Most Diseases of the Skin pro- 
ceed from want of cleanliness. These 
indeed may be caught by infection, 
but they will seldom continue long 
where cleanliness prevails. 

To the Same Cause must we im- 
pute the various kinds of vermin that 
infest the human body, houses, etc. 
These may generally be banished by 
cleanliness alone. 

Perhaps the intention of nature, 
in permitting such vermin to annoy 
mankind, ig to induce them to the prac- 
10 



tice of this virtue. 

One Common Cause of putrid and 
malignant fevers is the want of clean- 
liness. 

These Fevers commonly begin 
among the inhabitants of close, dirty 
houses, who breathe bad air, take little 
exercise, eat unwholesome food, and 
wear dirty clothes. There the infection 
is generally hatched, which spreads far 
and wide, to the destruction of many. 
Hence cleanliness may be considered 
as an object of public attention. It is 
not sufficient that I be clean myself, 
while the want of it in my neighbor 
affects my health as well as his own. 

If Dirty People cannot be re- 
moved as a common nuisance, they 
ought at least to be avoided as infec 
tious. All who regard their health 
should keep at a distance, even from 
their habitations. In places where 
great numbers of people are collected, 
cleanliness becomes of the utmost im- 
portance. 

It is well known that infectious 
diseases are caused by tainted air. 
Everything, therefore, which tends to 
pollute the air, or spread the infection, 
ought, with the utmost care, to be 
avoided. 

For this Reason, in great towns, 
no filth of any kind should be per- 
mitted to lie upon the streets. We are 
sorry to say that the importance of 
general cleanliness in this respect does 
by no means seem to be sufficiently 
understood. 

Influence of Cleanliness. — 
We have more than once expressed 
our conviction that the humanizing 
influence of habits of cleanliness, and 
of those decent observations which 
imply self-respect — the best, indeed 
the only foundation of respect for 
others — has never been sufficiently 
acted on. A clean, fresh, and well- 
ordered house exercises over its in- 
mates a moral no less than a physical 
influence, and has a direct tendency to 
make the members of a family sober, 
peaceable, and considerate of the feel- 
ings and happiness of each other ; nor 
is it difficult to trace a connection be- 



146 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



tween habitual feelings of this sort and 
the formation of habits of respect for 
property, for the laws in general, and 
even for those higher duties and obli- 
gations the observance of which no 
laws can enforce. 

EXERCISE.— Exercise in the open 
air is of the utmost importance to the 
human frame, yet how many are in a 
manner deprived of it by their own 
want of management of their time. 
Females with slender means are, for 
the most part, destined to indoor occu- 
pations, and have but little time allotted 
them for taking the air, and that little 
time is generally sadly encroached 
upon by the ceremony of dressing to 
go out. It may appear a simple sug- 
gestion, but experience only will show 
how much time might be redeemed by 
habits of regularity : such as putting 
the shawls, cloaks, gloves, shoes, rub- 
bers, etc., etc., or whatever is intended 
to be worn, in readiness, instead of 
having to search one drawer, then 
another, for possibly a glove or collar 
— wait for shoes being cleaned, etc. — 
and this when (probably) the out- 
going persons have to return to their 
employment at a given time. Where- 
as, if all were in readiness, the prep- 
arations might be accomplished in a 
few minutes, the walk not being cur- 
tailed by unnecessary delays. 

Three Principal Points in the 
manner of taking exercise are neces- 
sary to be attended to : — 1. The kind 
of exercise. 2. The proper time for 
exercise. 3. The duration of it. With 
respect to the kinds of exercise, the 
various species of it may be divided 
into active and passive. Among the 
jSrst, which admit of being consider- 
ably diversified, may be enumerated 
walking, running, leaping, swimming, 
riding, fencing, tlie military exercise, 
different sorts of athletic games, etc. 
Among the latter, or passive kinds of 
exercise, may be comprised riding in a 
carriage, sailing, friction, swinging, 
etc. 

Active Exercises are more bene- 
ficial to youth, to the middle-aged, to 
the robust in general, and particularly 



to the corpulent and the plethoric. 

Passive Kinds of exercise, on the 
contrary, are better calculated for chil- 
dren ; old, dry, and emaciated persons 
of a delicate and debilitated constitu- 
tion ; and particularly for the asth- 
matic and consumptive. 

The Time at which exercise is most 
f)roper, depends on such a variety of 
concurrent circumstances, that it does 
not admit of being regulated by any gen- 
eral rules, and must therefore be col- 
lected from the observations made on 
the effects of air, food, drink, etc. 

With Respect to the Duration 
OF Exercise, there are other particu- 
lars, relative to a greater or less de- 
gree of fatigue attending the diflferent 
species, and utility of it in certain 
states of the mind and body, which 
must determine this consideration as 
well as the preceding. 

That Exercise is to be pre- 
ferred which, with a view to brace 
and strengthen the body, we are most 
accustomed to. Any unusual one may 
be attended with a contrary eflfect. 

Exercise should be begun and 
finished gradually, never abruptly. 

Exercise in the Open Air has 
many advantages over that used within 
doors. 

To Continue Exercise until a 
profuse perspiration or a great degree 
of weariness takes place, is far from 
being wholesome. 

In the Forenoon, when the stom- 
ach is not too much distended, mus- 
cular motion is both agreeable and 
healthful ; it strengthens digestion, 
and heats the body less than with a 
full stomach ; and a good appetite 
after it is a proof that it has not been 
carried to excess. 

But at the same time it should be 
understood, that it is not advisable to 
take violent exercise immediately be- 
fore a meal, as digestion might thereby 
be retarded. 

Neither should we sit down to a 
substantial dinner or supper immedi- 
ately on returning from a fatiguing 
walk, at a time when the blood is 
heated, and the body in a state of per- 



HYGIENIC. 



147 



spiration from previous exertion, as 
the worst consequences may arise, 
especially where cooling dishes, salad, 
or a glass of cold drink is begun with. 

Exercise is always Hurtful 
AFTER Meals, from its impeding 
digestion, by propelling those fluids 
too much towards the surface of the 
body which are designed for the solu- 
tion of the food in the stomach. 

WALKING. —To walk gracefully, 
the body must be erect, but not stiff, 
and the head held up in such a posture 
that the eyes are directed forward. 
The tendency of untaught walkers is to 
look toward the ground near the feet ; 
and some persons appear always as if 
admiring their shoe-ties. The eyes 
should not tnus be cast downward, 
neither should the chest bend forward 
to throw out the back, making what 
are termed round shoulders; on the 
contrary, the whole person must hold 
itself up, as if not afraid to look the 
world in the face, and the chest by all 
means be allowed to expand. At the 
same time, everything like strutting 
or pomposity must be carefully 
avoided. An easy, firm, and erect 
posture is alone desirable. In walk- 
ing, it is necessary to bear in mind 
that the locomotion is to be performed 
entirely by the legs. Awkward per- 
sons rock from side to side, helping 
forward each leg alternately by ad- 
vancing the haunches. This is not 
only ungraceful, but fatiguing. Let the 
legs alone advance, bearing up the 
body. 

Utility of Singing. — It is asserted, 
and we believe with some truth, that 
singing is a corrective of the too 
common tendency to pulmonic com- 
plaints. Dr. Rush, an eminent physi- 
cian, observes on this subject : " The 
Germans are seldom afflicted with 
consumption ; and this, I believe, is in 
part occasioned by the strength which 
their lungs acquire by exercising them 
in vocal music — for this constitutes an 
essential branch of their education. 
The music-master of an academy has 
furnished me with a remark still more 
in favor of this opinion. He informed 



me that he had known several instances 
of persons who were strongly disposed 
to consumption, who were restored to 
health by the exercise of their lungs in 
singing." 

The Weather and the Blood. — In 
dry, sultry weather, the heat ought to 
be counteracted by means of a cooling 
diet. To this purpose, cucumbers, 
melons, and juicy fruits are subser- 
vient. We ought to give the prefer- 
ence to such alimentary substances as 
lead to contract the juices which are 
too much expanded by the heat, and 
this property is possessed by all acid 
food and drink. To this class belong 
all sorts of salad, lemons, oranges, 
pomegranates, sliced and sprinkled 
with sugar, for the acid of this fruit 
is not so apt to derange the stomach 
as that of lemons ; also cherries and 
strawberries, curds turned with lemon 
acid or cream of tartar; cream of 
tartar dissolved in water ; lemonade, 
and Rhenish or Moselle wine mixed 
with water. 

How to Get Sleep. — How to get 
sleep is to many persons a matter of 
high importance. Nervous persons, 
who are troubled with wakefulness 
and excitability, usually have a strong 
tendency of blood on the brain, with 
cold extremities. The pressure of the 
blood on the brain keeps it in a stimu- 
lated or wakeful state, and the pulsa- 
tions in the head are often painful. 
Let such rise and chafe the body and 
extremities with a brush or towel, or 
rub smartly with the hands, to promote 
circulation, and withdraw the excessive 
amount of blood from the brain, and 
they will fall asleep in a few moments. 
A cold bath, or a sponge bath and rub- 
bing, or a good run, or a rapid walk in 
the open air, or going up and down 
stairs a few times just before retiring, 
will aid in equalizing circulation and 
promoting sleep. These rules are sim- 
ple, and easy of application in castle 
or cabin, and may minister to the 
comfort of thousands who would freely 
expend money for an anodyne to pro- 
mote " Nature's sweet restorer, balmy 
sleep ! " 



148 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Early Hising. — Dr. Wilson Philip, 
in his "Treatise on Indigestion," saya: 
" Although it is of consequence to 
the debilitated to go early to bed, there 
are few things more hurtful to them 
than remaining in it too long. Getting 
up an hour or two earlier often gives 
a degree of vigor which nothing else 
can procure. For those who are not 
much debilitated, and sleep well, the 
best rule is to get out of bed soon after 
waking in the morning. This at first 
may appear too early, for the debili- 
tated require more sleep than the 
healthy ; but rising early will gradu- 
ally prolong the sleep on the succeed- 
ing night, till the quantity the patient 
enjoys is equal to his demand for it 
Lying late is not only hurtful, by the 
relaxation it occasions, but also by 
occupying that part of the day at which 
exercise is most beneficial." 

APPETITE. — Appetite is fre- 
quently lost through excessive use of 
stimulants, food taken too hot, seden- 
tary occupation, costiveness, liver dis- 
order, and want of change of air. The 
first endeavor should be to ascertain 
and remove the cause. Change of diet 
and change of air will frequently be 
found more beneficial than medi- 
cines. 

TEMPERANCE. — " If," observes 
a writer, " men lived uniformly in a 
healthy climate, were possessed of 
strong and vigorous frames, were de- 
scended from healthy parents, were 
educated in a hardy and active man- 
ner, were possessed of excellent natural 
dispositions, were placed in comfort- 
able situations in life, were engaged 
only in healthy occupations, were hap- 
pily connected in marriage, and kept 
their passions in due subjection, there 
would be little occasion for medical 
rules." All this is very excellent and 
desirable ; but, unfortunately for man- 
kind, unattainable. 

Man must be Something more 
THAN Man to be able to connect the 
different links of this harmonious chain 
— to consolidate this summum bonum 
of earthly felicity into one uninter- 
rupted whole ; for, independent of all 



regularity or irregularity of diet, pas- 
sions, and other sublunary circum- 
stances, contingencies, and connections, 
relative or absolute, thousands are 
visited by diseases and precipitated 
into the grave, independent of accident, 
to whom no particular vice could 
attach, and with whom the appetite 
never overstepped the boundaries of 
temperance. Do we not hear almost 
daily of instances of men living near 
to and even upwards of a century ? 
We cannot account for this either ; 
because of such men we know but 
few who have lived otherwise thau 
the world around them ; and we have 
known many who have lived in 
habitual intemperance for forty or fifty 
years, without interruption, and with 
little apparent inconvenience. 

The Assertion has been made 
by those who have attained a great age 
(Parr, and Henry Jenkins, for in- 
stance), that they adopted no particu- 
lar arts for the preservation of their 
health; consequently, it might be in- 
ferred that the duration of life has no 
dependence on manners or customs, or 
the qualities of particular food. This, 
however, is an error of no common 
magnitude. 

Peasants, Laborers, and other 
Hard-working People, more espe- 
cially those whose occupations require 
them to be much in the open air, may 
be considered as following a regular 
system of moderation ; and hence the 
higher degree of health which prevails 
among them and their families. They 
also observe rules ; and those which it 
is said were recommended by old Parr 
are remarkable for good sense ; namely, 
" Keep your head cool by temperance, 
your feet warm by exercise ; rise early, 
and go soon to bed ; and if you are in- 
clined to get fat, keep your eyes open 
and your mouth shut," — in othei 
words, sleep moderately, and be ab- 
stemious in diet; — excellent admoni- 
tions, more especially to those inclined 
to corpulency. 

The Advantages to be Derived 
FROM A Regular Mode of Living, 
with a view to the preservation of 



HYGIENIC. 



149 



health and life, are nowhere better ex- 
emplified than in the precepts and 
practice of Plutarch, whose rules for 
this purpose are excellent; and by ob- 
serving them himself, he maintained 
his bodily strength and mental facul- 
ties unimpaired to a very advanced 
age. tralen is a still stronger proof 
of the advantages of a regular plan, 
by means of which he reached the great 
age of one hundred and forty years, 
without having ever experienced dis- 
ease. His advice to • the readers of 
his "Treatise on Health" is as fol- 
lows: — "I beseech all persons who 
shall read this work not to degrade 
themselves to a level with the brutes, or 
the rabble, by gratifying their sloth, or 
by eating and drinking promiscuously 
whatever pleases their palates, or by 
indulging tlieir appetites of every kind. 
But whether they understand physic or 
not, let them consult their reason, and 
observe what agrees, and what does not 
agree with them, that, like wise men, 
they may adhere to the use of such 
things as conduce to their health, and 
forbear everything which, by their 
own experience, they find to do them 
hurt : and let them be assured that, by 
a diligent observation and practice of 
this rule, they may enjoy a good share 
of health, and seldom stand in need 
of physic or physicians." 

Health in Youth. — Late hours, 
irregular habits, and want of attention 
to diet, are common errors with most 
young men, and these gradually, but 
at first imperceptibly, undermine the 
health, and lay the foundation for va- 
rious forms of disease in after life. It 
is a very difficult thing to make young 
persons comprehend this. They fre- 
quently sit up as late as twelve, one, 
or two o'clock, without experiencing 
any ill effects ; they go without a meal 
to-day, and to-morrow eat to repletion, 
with only temporary inconvenience. 
One night they will sleep three or four 
hours, and the next nine or ten ; or 
one night, in their eagerness to get 
away into some agreeable company, 
they will take no food at all, and the 
next, perhaps, will eat a .hearty sup- 



per, and go to bed upon it. These, 
with various other irregularities, are 
common to the majority of young men, 
and are, as just stated, the cause of 
much bad health in mature life. In- 
deed, nearly all the shattered constitu- 
tions with which too many are cursed, 
are the result of a disregard to the 
plainest precepts of health in early life. 
Sleeping Together. — The' laws 
of life, says : More quarrels arise be- 
tween brothers, between sisters, be- 
tween hired girls, between school girls, 
between clerks in stores, between ap- 
prentices in mechanic shops, between 
hired men, between husbands and 
wives, owing to electrical changes 
through which their nervous systems go 
by lodging together night after night 
under the same bedclothes, than by any 
other disturbing cause. There is nf)th- 
ing that will so derange the nervous 
system of a person who is eliminative 
in nervous force. The absorber will 
go to sleep and rest all night, while 
the eliminator will be tumbling and 
tossing, restless and nervous, and wake 
in the morning, fretful, peevish, fault- 
finding, and discouraged. No two per- 
sons, no matter who they are, should 
habitually sleep together. One will 
thrive and the other will lose. This 
is the law, and in married life it is 
defied almost universally. 

Disinfecting Liquid. — In a wine 
bottle of cola water, dissolve two 
ounces acetate of lead (sugar of lead), 
and then add two (fluid) ounces of 
strong nitric acid (aquafortis). Shake 
the mixture, and it will be ready for 
use. A very small quantity of the 
liquid, in its strongest form, should be 
used for cleansing all kinds of cham- 
ber utensils. For removing offensive 
odors, clean cloths thoroughly moist- 
ened with the liquid, diluted with eight 
or ten parts of water, should be sus- 
pended at various parts of the roSm. 
In this case the oftensive and delete- 
rious gas-es are neutralized by chemical 
action. J'umigation in the usual way 
is only the substitution of one odor 
for another. In using the above, or 
any other disinfectant, let it never be 



150 



YOU ask! — I'll, tell! 



forgotten that fresh air, and plenty of 
it, is cheaper and more effective than 
any other material. 

Disinfecting Fumigation. — Com- 
mon salt, three ounces ; black man- 
ganese, oil of vitriol, of each one 
ounce ; water, two ounces ; carried in 
a cup through the apartments of the 
sick ; or the apartments intended to be 
fumigated, where sickness has been, 
may be shut up for an hour or two, 
and then opened. 

Coffee a Disinfectant. — Numerous 
experiments with roasted coffee prove 
that it is the most powerful means, not 
only of rendering animal and vege- 
table effluvia innocuous, but of actu- 
ally destroying them. A room iv 
which meat in an advanced degree of 
decomposition had been kept for some 
time, was instantly deprived of all 
smell on an open coffee-roaster being 
carried through it, containing a pound 
of coflfee newly roasted. In another 
room, exposed to the effluvium occa- 
sioned by the clearing out of the ma- 
nure-pit, so that sulphuretted hydrogen 
and ammonia in great quantities could 
be chemically detected, the stench was 
completely removed in half a minute, 
on the employment of three ounces of 
fresh-roasted coffee, while the other 
parts of the house were permanently 
cleared of the same smell by being 
simply traversed with the coffee- 
roaster, although the cleansing of the 
pit continued for several hours after. 
The best mode of using the coffee as a 
disinfectant is to dry the raw bean, 
pound it in a mortar, and then roast 
the powder on a moderately heated 
iron plate, until it assumes a dark 
brown tint, when it is fit for use. Then 
sprinkle it in sinks or cesspools, or lay 
it on a plate in the room which you 
wish to have purified. Coffee acid or 
coffee oil acts more readily in minute 
quantities. 

Charcoal as a Disinfectant. — The 
great efficacy of wood and animal 
charcoal in absorbing effluvia, and the 
greater number of gases and vapors, 
has long been known. 

Charcoal powder has also, during 



many centuries, been advantageously 
employed as a filter for putrid water, 
the object in view being to deprive 
the water of numerous organic in> 
purities diffused through it, which 
exert injurious effects on the animal 
economy. 

It is somewhat remarkable that the 
very obvious application of a perfectly 
similar operation to the still rarer 
fluid in which we live — namely, the 
air, which not unfrequently contains 
even more noxious organic impurities 
floating in it than those present in 
water — should have for so long a 
period been so unaccountably over- 
looked. 

Charcoal not only absorbs effluvia 
and gaseous bodies, but especially, 
when in contact \ ith atmospheric air, 
oxidizes and destroys many of the 
easily alterable ones, by resolving 
them into the simplest combinations 
they are capable of forming, which are 
chiefly water and carbonic acid. 

It is on this oxidizing property of 
charcoal, as well as on its absorbent 
power, that its efficacy as a deodor- 
izing and disinfecting agent chiefly 
depends. 

Effluvia and miasmata are usually 
regarded as highly organized, nitroge- 
nous, easily alterable bodies. Whert 
these are absorbed by charcoal, they 
come in contact with highly con- 
densed oxygen gas, which exist* 
within the pores of all charcoal which 
has been exposed to the air, even for a 
few minutes ; in this way they are 
oxidized and destroyed. 

Drinking and Head Protection, 
in Warm Weather. — Green leaves 
placed in the hat is very beneficial, but 
still more necessary is it to protect the 
eyes from the rays or reflection of the 
rays of the sun. It is very probable that 
the affection of the brain called "sun- 
stroke " is caused by the sun reaching 
the brain through the eyes rather than 
from the top of the head. 

Those who have a strong desire ta 
drink cold water in great quantities ia 
summer should take the twig of a birch,, 
or elm, or other tree having a pleasant 



HYGIENIC. 



151 



taste, cut it in short pieces, and place 
one in the mouth, changing it occa- 
sionally ; this will to a great extent pre- 
vent the desire to drink. Another plan 
is to frequently wet the pulse (the 
wrists) with cold water ; this will not 
only prevent thirst, but will be found 
very refreshing when wilting in the 
dog-days. 

Ground ginger or Cayenne pepper, a 
little of it put into ice water, will pre- 
vent much of its injurious effects. 

The Turn of Life. — Between the 
years of forty and sixty, a man who 
has properly regulated himself may be 
considered in the prime of life. His 
matured strength of constitution ren- 
ders him almost impervious to the 
attacks of disease, and experience has 
given soundness to his judgment. His 
mind is resolute, firm, and equal ; 
all his functions are in the highest 
order. He assumes mastery over busi- 
ness, builds up a competence on the 
foundation he has formed in early man- 
hood, and passes through a period of 
life attended by many gratifications. 
Having gone a year or two past sixty, 
he arrives at a standstill. But athwart 
this is a viaduct, called the " Turn of 
Life," which is a turn either into a pro- 
longed walk or into the grave. The 
system and powers, having reached 
their utmost expansion, now begin to 
either close in like flowers at sunset, or 
break down at once. One injudicious 
stimulant, a single excitement, may 
force it beyond its strength ; while a 
careful supply of props, and the with- 
drawal of all that tends to force a plant, 
will sustain it in beauty and vigor un- 
til night has entirely set in. 

To Keep Cool in Hot Weather. — 
Keep a clean conscience as well as clean 
body and clean clothing, and don't get 
excited. If uncomfortably warm at any 
time, immerse the hands, or feet, or 
both, in cold water for a short time, or 
let a stream of cold water run upon the 
wrists and ankles. This will cool the 
whole bodv in a short time. 

VENTILATION. — The great im- 
portance of ventilation in our sitting 
and sleeping rooms, in our schools and 



public halls, is not suflSciently appre- 
ciated. It was well set forth in a lec- 
ture by a Cleveland professor. It is 
startling to learn the amount of car- 
bonic acid emitted from the lungs of 
one person, or from a single gas-burner 
— enough to poison the whole atmos- 
phere of a good-sized room in a very 
brief period of time. How many per- 
sons think that winter temperature de- 
mands the exclusion of fresh air to make 
their apartments warm and comfortable, 
when the fact that in the cold season 
we consume more oxygen, and conse- 
quently exhale a greater quantity of 
the poisonous carbonic acid gas, should 
lead to a directly opposite course. A 
bed-room in winter requires more ven- 
tilation than in summer, and the non- 
observance of this fact will readily 
account for the awful diseases to which 
frail humanity is subject. 

We wonder if many of our readers; 
are aware of the poisonous exhalations 
incident to a congregation of their 
" fellow citizens," in ball - rooms, 
churches, and lecture-halls. If they 
have not fully considered the vast im- 
portance of thorough ventilation, let 
them take these undeniable facts home 
to their serious thoughts. A person 
in health has eighteen breathings per 
minute, and thirty-five hogsheads of 
air pass through the lungs in twenty- 
four hours. Of this, from three to 
five per cent., or about two and a half 
hogsheads, is exhaled as carbonic acid 
gas ; and thus one person would 
render two or three hogsheads of air 
unfit for breathing again. Let every 
person anxious for the preservation 
of his health take care that the win- 
dows of the dormitories are dropped a 
little, even during the winter nights. 
There is far less danger of taking cold 
than there is of inhaling the noxious 
atmosphere, which saps the health, 
undermines the constitution, and em- 
bitters life v.fith suffering and disease 
that might have been avoided. 

The Power of Hearty Laughter.. 
— The New Haven Palladium is respon- 
sible for the following : — " The follow- 
ing incident comes to us thoroughly 



/52 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



authenticated, although we are not at 
Rberty to publish any names : A short 
time since, two individuals in this city 
were lying in one room very sick, one 
with brain fever, the other with an 
aggravated case of mumps. They 
were so low that watchers were needed 
every night, and it was thought doubt- 
ful if the one sick of fever recovered. 
A gentleman was engaged to watch 
one night, his duty being to wake 
the nurse whenever it became neces- 
sary to take the medicine. In the 
course of the night both watcher and 
nurse fell asleep. The man with the 
mumps lay watching the clock, and 
saw that it was time to give the fever 
patient his potion. He was unable to 
speak aloud, or to move any portion 
of his body except his arms ; but, 
seizing a pillow, he managed to strike 
the watcher in the face with it. Thus 
suddenly awakened, the watcher sprang 
from his seat, falling to the floor and 
awakening both the nurse and fever 
patient. The incident struck both the 
sick men as very ludicrous, and they 
laughed most heartily at it for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. When the doctor 
came in the morning, he found his 
patients vastly improved — said he had 
never known so sudden a turn for the 
better ; and they are now both out and 
well. Who says laughter is not the best 
of medicine? " 

The Effects of Marriag^e with 
Blood Relations. — The consequences 
of intermarriage have been the subject 
of much declamation and but little 
sober inquiry. Evils of every kind have 
been depicted by some and totally de- 
nied by others. Those who denounce 
and those who favor within limits the 
practice of intermarriage are both de- 
void of any large scries of observation, 
or of any perfectly conclusive chain of 
argument. But it must be said that 
the balanc* of facts is in favor of the 
former. 

Although marriage with a relation 
may not, and often does not, show any 
evil results, yet it is a question if some 
evil may not arise to their descendants 
after two or three generations. (In 



the same way that children are afflicted 
with scrofula, whose parents had no 
taint of the disease, but whose ances- 
tors two or three generations back had 
been troubled with syphilis.) It is 
generally admitted that if inter- 
marriage is frequent among relations 
the offspring of such marriages are 
less healthy and robust, more liable to 
weakness of sight and blindness, and 
a much larger proportion than the 
average are idiots. Dr. Liebreich, in 
citing a case, says the afflicted person's 
father had married a cousin of his, by 
whom he had thirteen children ; two 
of these died early, two became blind 
owing to pigmentary retinitis, and a 
fifth was both blind and afflicted with 
idiocy. One of his sisters married a 
cousin, and she had an idiot am.)n<: 
her children. 

Teeth Set on Edge. — All acid foods 
drinks, medicines, and tooth washes and 
powders are very injurious to the teeth. 
If a tooth is put in cidef,vinegar, lemon- 
juice, or tartaric acid, in a few hours 
the enamel will be completely de- 
stroyed, so that it can be removed by 
the finger nail as if it were chalk. Most 
people have experienced what is com- 
monly called teeth set on edge. The 
explanation of it is, the acid of the fruit 
that has been eaten has so far softened 
the enamel of the tooth that the least 
pressure is felt by the exceedingly 
small nerves which pervade tiie thin 
membrane which connects the enamel 
and the bony part of the tooth. Such 
an effect cannot be produced without 
injuring the enamel. True, it will be- 
come hard again, when the acid ha.s 
been removed by the fluids of the 
mouth, just as an egg-shell that has 
i)een softened in this way becomes hard 
again by being put in the water. When 
the effect of sour fruit on the teeth sub- 
sides, they feel as well as ever, but they 
are not as well. And the oftener it is 
repeated, the sooner the disastrous con- 
sequences will be manifested. 

Effect of Tobacco upon Pulsation. 
— Dr. A. Smith states that tobacco- 
smoking increases the rate of pulsation 
in some persons and decreases it in 



HYGIENIC. 



153 



others, hence there is a diversity in the 
action of tobacco upon different consti- 
tutions. He experimented with to- 
bacco upon Dr. Dale, at Scarborough, 
and found that the effect of tobacco 
upon him was as follows : — During the 
first six minutes of smoking there was 
only an increase in the beat of his pulse 
of four beats per second, but after that 
there was a steady increase, and after 
imoking twenty-one minutes the beats 
Bcreased to thirty-seven and a half per 
minute. After smoking had ceased, 
the pulsations rapidly decreased. Dr. 
Smith states that tobacco-smoking acts 
as a stimulant like alcohol upon those 
perso-is whose prise is excited. When 
the body is of full habit, the use of to- 
bacco, he believes, leads to disturbed 
sleep, and in some cases may end in 
apoplexy. 

Special Rules for the Preven- 
tion of Cholera. — 1. We urge the 
necessity, in all cases of Cholera, of 
an instant recourse to medical aid, 
and also under every form and va- 
riety of indisposition; for all dis- 
orders are found to merge in the dom- 
inant disease. 

2. Let immediate Relief be 
sought under disorder of the bowels 
especially, however slight. The inva- 
sion of Cholera may thus be readily 
prevented. 

3. Let every Impukity, animal 
and vegetable, be quickly removed to 
a distance from the habitation, such as 
slaughter-houses, pig-sties, cesspools, 
necessaries, and all other domestic 
nuisances. 

4. Let all Uncovered Drains be 
carefully and frequently cleansed. 

5. Let the Grounds in and around 
the habitation be drained, so as effec- 
tually to carry off moisture of every 
kind. 

6. Let all Partitions be removed 
from within and without habitations, 
which unnecessarily impede ventila- 
tion. 

7. Let every Room be daily thrown 
open for the admission of fresh air. 
This should be done about noon, when 
the atmosphere is most likely to be 



dry. 

8. Let Dry Scrubbing be used in 
domestic cleansing in place of water 
cleansing. 

9. Let excessive Fatigue, and 
exposure to damp and cold, especially 
during the night, be avoided. 

10. Let the Use of cold drinks 
and acid liquors, especially under fa- 
tigue, be avoided, or when the body Lj 
heated. 

11. Let the Use of cold acid fruits 
and vegetables be avoided. 

12. Let Excess in the use of ardent 
and fermented liquors and tobacco be 
avoided. 

13. Let a Poor Diet, and the use 
of impure water in cooking, or for 
drinking, be avoided. 

14. Let the Wearing of wet and 
insufficient clothes be avoided. 

15. Let a Flannel or woollen belt 
be worn round the belly. 

16. Let Personal Cleanliness be 
carefully observed. 

17. Let every Cause tending to 
depress the moral and physical ener- 
gies be carefully avoided. Let expos- 
ure to extremes of heat and cold be 
avoided. 

18. Let Crowding of persons 
within houses and apartments be 
avoided. 

19. Let Sleeping in low or damp 
rooms be avoided. 

20. Let Fires be kept up during 
the night in sleeping or adjoining 
apartments, the night being the period 
of most danger from attack, especially 
under exposure to cold or damp. 

21. Let all Bedding and clothing 
be daily exposed during winter and 
spring to the fire, and in summer to the 
heat of the sun. 

22. Let the Dead be buried in 
places remote from the habitations of 
the living. By the timely adoption of 
simple means such as these, Cholera, 
or other epidemic, will be made to lose 
its venom. 

Cautions for the Prevention of 
Accidents. — The following regula- 
tions should be engraved on the 
memory of all : 



154 



YOU ASK 



I ' L I. 



;li. 



As many sudden deaths come by 
water, particular caution is therefore 
necessary in its vicinity. 

Staud'not near a tree, or any leaden 
spout, iron gate, or palisade, in times 
of lightning. 

Keep loaded guns in safe places, and 
never imitate firing a gun in jest. 

Never sleep near charcoal ; if drowsy 
at any work where charcoal fires are 
used, take the fresh air. 

Carefully rope trees before they are 
cut down, that when they fall they 
may do no injury. 

When benumbed by cold beware of 
sleeping out of doors ; rub yourself, 
if you have it in your power, with 
snow, aud do not hastily approach the 
fire. 

Beware of damps. 

Air vaults, by letting them remain 
open some time before you enter, or 
scattering powdered lime in them. 
Where a lighted candle will not burn, 
animal life cannot exist ; it will be 
an excellent caution, therefore, before 
entering damp and confined places, to 
try this simple experiment. 

Never leave saddle or draught horses, 
white in use, by themselves; nor go 
immediately behind a led horse, as he 
is apt to kick. 

Do not ride on footways. 

Be wary of children, whether they 
are up or in bed; and particularly 
when they are near the fire, an element 
with which they are very apt to amuse 
themselves. 

Leave nothing poisonous open or 
accessible ; and never omit to write 
the word " Poison " in large letters 
upon it, wherever it may be placed. 

In walking the streets keep out of 
the line of the cellars, and never look 
one way and walk another. 

Never throw pieces of orange-peel, 
or broken glass bottles, into the streets. 

Never meddle with gunpowder by 
candle-light. 

In trimming a lamp with naphtha, 
never fill it. Leave space for the spirit 
to expand with warmth. 

Never quit a room leaving the poker 
in the fire. 



When the brass rod of the stair- 
carpet becomes loose, fasten it imme- 
diately. 

In opening effervescing drinks, such 
as soda water, hold the cork in your 
hand. 

Quit your house with care on a 
frosty morning. 

Have your horses shoes roughed 
directly there are indications of frost. 

Keep lucifer matches in their cases, 
and never let them be strewed about. 

Accidents in Carriages. — It is 
safer, as a general rule, to keep your 
place than to jump out. Getting out 
over the back, provided you can hold 
on a little while, and run, is safer than 
springing from the side. But it is best 
to keep your place, and hold fast. In ac- 
cidents people act not so much from 
reason as from excitement : but good 
rules, firmly impressed upon the mind, 
generally rise uppermost, even in the 
midst of fear. 

Life Belts. — An excellent and cheap 
life belt, for persons proceeding to sea, 
bathing in dangerous places, or learn- 
ing to swim, may be thus made : — 
Take a yard and three-quarters of 
strong jean, double, and divide it 
into nine compartments. Let there 
be a space of two inches after each 
third compartment. Fill the com- 
partments with very fine cuttings of 
cork, which may be made by cutting 
up old corks, or (still better) pur- 
chased at the corkcutter's. Work eye- 
let holes at the bottom of each com- 
partment, to let the water drain out. 
Attach a neck-band and waist-strings 
of stout boot-web, and sew them on 
strongly. 

Another. — Cut open an old boa, 
or victorine, and line it with fine cork- 
cuttings instead of wool. For ladies 
going to sea these are excellent, as 
they may be worn in stormy weather, 
without giving appearance of alarm 
in danger. They may be fastened to 
the body by ribbons or tapes, of the 
color of the fur. Gentlemen's waist- 
coats may be lined the same way. 

Charcoal Fumes. — The usual rem- 
edies for persons overcome with the 



PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS. 



155 



fumes of charcoal in a close apart- 
ment are, to throw cold water on the 
head, and to bleed immediately ; also 
apply mustard or hartshorn to the 
soles of the feet. 

Cautions in Visiting the Sick. — 
Do not visit the sick when you are fa- 
tigued, or when in a state of perspira- 
tion, or with the stomach empty — for 
in such conditions you are liable to 
take the infection. When the disease 
is very contagious, place yourself at 
the side of the patient which is nearest 
to the window. Do not enter the room 
the first thing in the morning, before 
it has been aired ; and when you come 
away, take some food, change your 
clothing immediately, and expose the 
latter to the air for some days. To- 
bacco smoke is a preventive of malaria. 
Children and Cutlery. — Serious 
accidents having occurred to babies 
through their catching hold of the 
blades of sharp instruments, the fol- 
lowing hint will be useful : — If a child 
lay hold of a knife or razor, do not try 
to pull it away, or to force open the 
hand; but, holding the child's hand 
that is empty, offer to its other hand 
anything nice or pretty, and it will 
immediately open the hand, and let 
the dangerous instrument fall. 

Prevention of Fires. — The follow- 
ing simple suggestions are worthy of 
observation: Add one ounce of alum 
to the last water used to rinse chil- 
dren's dresses, and they will be ren- 
dered uninflammable, or so slightly 
combustible that they would take fire 
very slowly, if at all, and would not 
flame. This is a simple precaution, 
which may be adopted in families of 
children. Bed curtains, and linen in 
general, may also be treated in the 
same way. Since the occurrence of 
many lamentable deaths by fire, arising 
partly from the fashion of wearing 
crinoline, the tungstate of soda has 
been recommended for the purpose of 
rendering any article of female dress 
incombustible. A patent starch is also 
sold, with which the tungstate of soda 
is incorporated. The starch should be 
used whenever it can be procured ; and 



any chemist will intimate to the pur- 
chaser the manner in which the tung- 
state of soda should be employed. 

Precautions in Case of Fire.— The 
following precautions should be im- 
pressed upon the memory of all our 
readers : 

Should a fire break out, send oiF to 
the nearest engine or police station. 

Fill Buckets with Water, carry 
them as near the fire as possible, dip a 
mop into the water, and throw it in 
showers on the fire, until assistance 
arrives. 

If a Fire is violent, wet a blanket, 
and throw it on the part which is in 
flames. 

Should a Fire break out in the 
Kitchen Chimney, or any other, a 
wetted blanket should be nailed to the ' 
upper ends of the mantlepiece, so as to 
cover the opening entirely ; the fire will 
then go out of itself : for this purpose two 
knobs should be permanently fixed in 
the upper ends of the mantlepiece, on 
which the blanket may be hitched. 

Should the bed or window curtains 
be on fire, lay hold of any woollen gar- 
ment, and beat it on the flames until 
extinguished. 

Avoid leaving the Window or 
Door open in the room where the fire 
has broken out, as the current of air 
increases the force of the fire. 

Should the Staircase be burn- 
ing, so as to cut off all communication, 
endeavor to escape by means of a trap- 
door in the roof, a ladder leading to 
which should always be at hand. 

Avoid Hurry and Confusion; no 
person except a fireman, friend, or 
neighbor should be admitted. 

If a Lady's Dress takes Fire, she 
should endeavor to roll herself in a rug, 
carpet, or the first woollen garment she 
meets with. 

It is a Good Precaution to have 
always at hand a large piece of baize, to 
throw over a female whose dress is 
burning, or to be wetted and thrown 
over a fire that has recently broken out. 

A Solution of Pearlash in 
Water, thrown upon a fire, extin- 
guishes it instantly. The proportion 



156 



YOU ask! — I'll tell 



is a quarter of a pound, dissolved in 
some hot water, and then poured into 
a bucket of common water. 

It is Recommended to House- 
holders to have two or three fire- 
buckets and a carriage-mop with a long 
handle near at hand ; they will be 
found essentially useful in case of fire. 

All Householders, but particu- 
larly hotel, tavern, and inn-keepers, 
.should exercise a wise precaution by 
directing that the last person up should 
perambulate the premises previous to 
going to rest, to ascertain that all fires 
are safe and lights extinguished. 

To Extinguish a Fire in the chim- 
ney, besides any water at hand, throw 
on it salt, or a handful of flour of sul- 
phur, as soon as you can obtain it ; 
keep all the doors and windows tightly 
shut, and hold before the fireplace a 
blanket, or some woollen article, to ex- 
clude the air. 

In Escaping from a Fire, creep or 
crawl along the room with your face 
close to the ground. Children should 
be early taught how ta press out a 
spark when it happens to reach any 
part of their dress, and also that run- 
ning into the air will cause it to blaze 
immediately. 

Reading in Bed at night should be 
avoided, as, besides the danger of an 
accident, it never fails to injure the 
eyes. 

To Heat a Bed at a moment's notice, 
throw a little salt into the warming- 
pan, and suffer it to burn for a minute 
previous to use. 

FLOWERS and shrubs should be 
excluded from a bed-chamber. 

SWIMMING. — Every person 
should endeavor to acquire the power 
of swimming. The fiict that the ex- 
ercise is a healthful accompaniment of 
bathing, and that lives may be saved 
by it, even when least expected, is a 
sufiicient argument for the recommen- 
dation. The art of swimming is, in 
reality, very easy. The first considera- 
tion is not to attempt to learn to swim 
too hastily ; that is to say, you must 
not expect to succeed in your efforts to 
swim until you have become accus- 



tomed to the water, and have overcome 
your repugnance to the coldness and 
novelty of bathing. Every attempt will 
fail until you have acquired a certain 
confidence in the water, and then the 
diflSculty will soon vanish. 

Dr. Franklin's Advice to Swimmers. 

The only ol>stacl(> to improvement in this neces- 
sary and life-preserving art is (ear ; and it is only hy 
overcoming this timidity that you can expect to 
become a master of the following acqniremeuts. 
It is very common for novices in the art of swim- 
ming to make use of corks or bladders to assist 
in keeping the body above water ; some liave 
utterly condemned the use of them ; however, they 
may be of service for supporting the body while 
one is learning what is called the stroke, or that 
manner of drawing in and striking out the handa 
and feet that is necessary to produce progressive 
motion. But you will be no swimmer till you can 
place confidence in the power of the water to sup- 
port you. I would, therefore, advise the acquiring 
that contidence in tlie first place, especially as I 
have known several who, by a little practice, neces- 
sary for that purpose, have insensibly acquired the 
stroke, taught, iis it were, by nature. The practice 
I mean is this : choosing a place where the watet 
deepens gradually, walk coolly into it till it is up 
to your breast ; then turn round your face to the 
shore, and throw an egg into the water between 
you and the shore. It will sink to the bottom, and 
be easily seen there if the water be clear. It must 
lie in the water so deep that you cannot reach to 
take it up but by diving for it. To encourage 
yourself in order to do this, reflect that your 
progress will be from deep to shallow water, and 
that at any time you may, by bringing your legs 
under you, and standing on the bottom, raise your 
head far above the water ; then plunge under it 
with your eyes open, which must be kept o])en on 
going under, as you cannot open the eyelids for the 
weight of water above you ; throwing yourself to- 
wards the egg, and endeavoring by the action of 
your hands and feet against the water to get for- 
ward, till within reach of it. In this attempt you 
will find that the water buoys you up against your 
inclination; that it is not so easy to sink as you 
imagine, and that you cannot, but by active foi'ce, 
get down to the egg. Thus you feel the power of 
water to support you, and learn to confide in that 
power, while your endeavors to overcome it, and 
reach the egg, teach you the manner of acting on 
the water with your feet and hands, which action 
is afterwards used in swimming to support your 
head higher above the water, or to go forward 
through it. 

I would the more earnestly press you to the 
trial of this method, because I think I shall satisfy 
you that your body is lighter than water, and that 
you might float in it a long time with your mouth 
free for breathing, if you would put yourself into a 
proper posture, and would be still, and forbear 
struggling: yet, till you have obtained this exjieri- 
meiital confidence in the water, I cannot depend 
upon your having the necessary presence of mind 
to recollect the posture, and the directions I gave 
you relating to it. The surprise may put all out 
of your mind. 

Thouuh the Legs, .\rm.s, .\nd He.^d of a human 
body, being solid parts, are specifically soraewliut 
heavier than fresh water, as the trunk, particularly 
the upper part, from its hollowuess, is so much 



ADVICE TO SWIMMERS. 



157 



Ughter than water, so the whole of the body, taken 
altogether, is too light to siuk wholly under water, 
but some part will reuiuin aUove uutil the lungs 
become filled with water, whicli happens from 
drawing water to them instead of air, when a per- 
Bon, in the fright, attempts breathing while ilie 
mouth and nostrils are under water. 

The Legs and Arms are specipicailt lighter 
than salt water, and will be sup])orted by it, so 
that a human body cannot sink in salt water, 
though the lungs were filled as above, but from the 
greater specific gravity of the head. Therefore a 
person throwing himself on his back in salt water, 
and extending his arms, may easily lie so as to 
keep his mouth and nostrils free for breathing: 
and, by a slight motion of his hand, may prevent 
turning, if he should perceive any tendency to it. 

In Fresh Water, if a man throw himself on 
HIS Back near the surface, he cannot kng continue 
in that situation but by proper action of his hands 
on the water; if he use no such action, the logs 
and lower part of the body will gradually sink till 
he come into an upright position, in which he will 
continue suspended, the hollow of his breast keep- 
ing the head uppermost. 

But if in this Erect Position the head be kept 
upright above the shoulders, as when we stand on 
the ground, the immersion will, by the weight of 
that part of the head that is out of the water, 
reach above the mouth and nostrils, perhaps a 
little above the eyes, so that a man cannot long re- 
main suspended in water with his head in that 
position. 

The Body continuinq suspended as before, and 
upright, if the head be leaned quite back, so 
that the face look upward, all the back part of the 
head being under water, and its weight conse- 
quently, in a great measure, supported by it, the 
face will remain above water quite free for breath- 
ing, will rise an inch higher every inspiration, and 
sink as much every expiration, but never so low as 
that the water may come over the mouth. 

If, therefore, a Person unacquainted with 
Swimming, and falling accidentally into the water, 
could have presence of mind sufficient to avoid 
struggling and plunging, and to let the body take 
this natural position, he might continue long safe 
from drowning, till, perhaps, help should come; 
for, as to the clothes, their additional weight when 
immersed is very inconsiderable, the water sup- 
porting it; though, when he comes out of the 
water, he will find them very heavy indeed. 

But I WOULD NOT ADVISE ANY ONE TO DEPEND ON 

HAVING THIS PRESENCE OF MiND ou such an Occa- 
sion, but learn fairly to swim, as I wish all men 
were taught to do in their youth; they would, on 
many occasions, be the safer for having that skill: 
and, on many more, the happier, as free from pain- 
ful apprehensions of danger, to say nothing of the 
enjoyment in so delightful and wholesome an 
exercise. Soldiers particularly should, methinks, 
all be taught to swim ; it might be of frequent use, 
either in surprising an enemj' or saving them- 
selves ; and if I had now boys to educate, I should 
prefer those schools (other things being equal) 
where an opportunity was afforded for acquiring 
BO advantageous an art, which, once learned, is 
never forgotten. 

I KNOW BY EXPERIENCE, that it is a great com- 
fort to a swimmer who has a considerable distance 
to go, to turn himself sometimes on his back, and 
to vary, in other respects, the means of procuring 
a progressive motion. 

When he is seized with the Cramp in the leg, 
the method of driving it away is to give the parts 
effected a sudden, vigoj-ous, and violent shock ; 



which he may do in the air as he swims on his 
back. 

Ddeinq the Great Heats in Summer, there is 
no danger in bathing, however warm he may be, 
in rivers which have been thoroughly warmed 
by the sun. But to throw one's self into cold 
spring water, when the body has been heated by 
exercise in the sun, is an imprudence which may 
prove fatal. I once knew an instance of four 
young men who, having worked at harvest in the 
heat of the day, with a view of refreshing them- 
selves, plunged into a spring of cold water; two 
died upon the spot, a third ne.\t morning, and the 
fourth recovered with great difficulty. A copious 
draught of cold water, in similar circumstances, is 
frequently attended with the same effect in North 
America. 

The Exercise of Swimming is one of the most 
HEALTHY and agreeable in the world. After having 
swum for an hour or two in the evening, one 
Bleeps coolly the whole night, even during the moot 
ardent heat of summer. Perhaps the pores bein 
cleansed, the insensible perspiration increases, 
and occasions this coolness. It is certain that much 
swimming is the means of stopping diarrhoea, and 
even of producing a constipation. With respect 
to those who do not know how to swim, or who 
are affected with diarrhoea at a season which does 
not permit them to use that exercise, a warm bath, 
by cleansing and purifying the skin, is found very 
salutary, and often affects a radical cure. I speak 
from m.y own experience, frequently repeated, and 
that of others, to whom I have recommended this. 

When I w.\s a Boy, I amused myself one day 
with flying a paper kite ; and approaching the 
banks of a lake, which was nearly a mile broad, I 
tied the string to a stake, and the kite ascended to 
a very considerable height above the pond, while I 
was swimming. In a little time, being desirous of 
amusing myself with my kite, and enjoying at the 
same time the pleasure of swimming, I returned, 
and loosening from the stake the string, with the 
little stick which was fastened to it, went again 
into the water, where I found that, lying on my 
back, and holding the stick in my hand, I was 
drawn along the surface of the water in a very 
agreeable manner. Having then engaged another 
boy to carry my clothes round the pond, to a 
place which I pointed out to him on the other 
side, I began to cross the pond with my kite, which 
carried me quite over without the least fatigue, 
and with the greatest pleasure imaginable. I was 
only obliged occasionally to halt a little in my 
course, and resist its progress, when it appeared 
that by following too quickly, I lowered the kite 
too much ; by doing which occasionally I made it 
rise again. I have never since that time practised 
this singular mode of swimming, and I think it not 
impossible to cross, in this manner, from Dover to 
Calais. 

Those who prefer the Aid of 
Belts will find it very easy and safe to 
make belts upon the plan explained ; 
and by gradually reducing the floating 
power of the belts from day to day, 
they will gain confidence, and speedily 
acquire the art of swimming. 

Strength of Men. 
With a drawing-knife a man 

exerts a force of. ; 100 lbs. 



158 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



With an auger, both hands 100 lbs. 

"With a screw-driver, one hand.. 84 " 

With a bench-vice handle 72 " 

With a chisel, vertical pressure 72 " 

With a windlass 60 " 

With pincers, compression 60 " 

With a hand-plane 60 " 

With a hand-saw 36 *' 

With a thumb-vice 45 " 



With a brace-bit, revolving 16 lbs. 

Twisting by the thumb and ) 

fingers only with a small >■ 14 " 

screw-driver J 

The strength of 5 men is equivalent 

to 1 animal horse. 
The strength of 7 J men is equivalent 

to 1 machinery horse-power. 



EVERY ONE HIS OWN COOK. 

The Choice op Wholesome Food— Economy in its Selection— Theory 
AND Practice of Good Cooking. 



Choice of Articles of Food.— 

Nothing is more important in the 
affairs of housekeeping than the choice 
of wholesome food. We have been 
amused by a conundrum, which is as 
follows : — "A man went to market 
and bought two fish. When he reached 
home he found they were the same as 
when he had bought them ; yet there 
were three! How was this?" The 
answer is — "He bought two mack- 
erel, and one smelt!" Those who 
envy him his bargain need not care 
about the following rules ; but to 
others they will be valuable : 

Mackerel must be perfectly fresh, 
or it is a very indifferent fish ; it will 
neither bear carriage, nor being kept 
many hours out of the water. The 
firmness of the flesh, and the clearness 
of the eyes, must be the criterion of 
fresh mackerel, as they are of all 
other fish. 

Cod is known to be fresh by the 
rigidity of the muscles (or flesh) ; the 
redness of the gills, and clearness of 
the eyes. Crimping much improves 
this fish. 

Salmon. — The flavor and excel- 
lence of this fish depends upon its 
freshness, and the shortness of time 
since it was caught; for no method 
can completely preserve the delicate 
flavor it has when just taken out of 
the water. A great deal of what is 
brought to market has been packed in 
ice. 

Herrings should be eaten when 
very fresh ; and, like mackerel, will not 
remain good many hours after they are 
caught. But they are very excellent, 



especially for breakfast relishes, either 
salted, split, dried, and peppered, or 
pickled. 

Fresh- WATER Fish.— The remarks 
as to firmness and clear fresh eyes, 
apply to this variety of fish. 

Lobsters, recently caught, have 
always some remains of muscular 
action in the claws, which may be ex- 
cited by pressing the eyes with the 
finger ; when this cannot be produced, 
the lobster must have been too long 
kept. When boiled, the tail preserves 
its elasticity if fresh, but loses it as 
soon as it becomes stale. The heavi- 
est lobsters are the best ; when light, 
they are watery and poor. Hen lob- 
sters may generally be known by the 
spawn, or by the breadth of the 
" flap." 

Crab and Crayfish must be 
chosen by observations similar to those 
given above in the choice of lobsters. 
Crabs have an agreeable smell when 
fresh. 

Prawns and Shrimps, when fresh, 
are firm and crisp. 

Oysters. — If fresh, the shell is 
firmly closed ; when the shells of 
Oysters are open, they are dead, and 
unfit for food. The small-shelled 
Oysters are the finest in flavor. Larger 
kinds, called Rock Oysters, are gener- 
ally considered only fit for stewing 
and sauces, though some persons pre- 
fer them. 

Beef. — The grain of ox beef, when 
good, is loose, the meat red, and the 
fat inclining to yellow. Cow beef, on 
the contrary, has a closer grain, a 
whiter fat, but meat scarcely as red as 
159 



160 



YOU akk! — I'll tell! 



th-^t of ox beef. Inferior beef, which 
is meat obtained from ill-fed animals, 
or from those which had become too 
old for food, may be known by a hard, 
skinny fat, a dark red lean, and, in old 
animals, a line of horny texture run- 
ning through the meat of the ribs. 
When meat pressed by the finger rises 
up quickly, it may be considered as 
that of an animal which was in its 
prime ; when the dent made by pres- 
sure returns slowly, or remains visible, 
the animal had probably passed its 
prime, and the meat consequently 
must be of inferior quality. 

Veal should be delicately white, 
though it is often juicy and well-fla- 
vored when rather dark in color. 
Butchers, it is said, bleed calves pur- 
posely before killing them, with a view 
to make the flesh white, but this also 
makes it dry and flavorless. On ex- 
amining the loin, if the fat enveloping 
the kidney be white and firm looking, 
the meat will probably be prime and 
recently killed. Veal will not keep so 
long as an older meat, especially in hot 
or damp weather. When going, the 
fat becomes soft and moist, the meat 
flabby and spotted, and somewhat 
porous like sponge. Large, overgrown 
veal is inferior to a small, delicate, yet 
fat veal. The fillet of a cow-calf is 
known by the udder attached to it, 
and by the softness of the skin. It is 
preferable to the veal of a bull-calf 

Mutton. —The meat should be firm 
and close in grain, and red in color, 
the fat white and firm. Mutton is in 
its prime when the sheep is about five 
years old, though it is often killed 
much younger. If too young, the 
flesh feels tender when pinched ; if too 
old, on being pinched it wrinkles up, 
and so remains. In young mutton, 
the fat readily separates. In old, it is 
held together by strings of skin. In 
sheep diseased of the rot, the flesh is 
very pale-colored, the fat inclining to 
yellow. The meat appears loose from 
the bone, and if squeezed, drops of 
water ooze out from the grains ; after 
cooking, the meat drops clean away 
from the bones. Wether Mutton is 



preferred to that of the ewe. It may 
be known by the lump of fat on the 
inside of the thigh. 

Lamb. — This meat will not keep 
long after it is killed. The large vein 
in the neck is bluish in color when the 
fore-quarter is fresh, green when be- 
coming stale. In the hind-quarter, if 
not recently killed, the fat of the kidney 
will have a slight smell, and the 
knuckle will have lost its firmness. 

Pork. — When good, the rind is 
thin, smooth, and cool to the touch ; 
when changing, from being too long 
killed, it becomes flaccid and clammy. 
Enlarged glands, called kernels, in the 
fat, are marks of an ill-fed or diseased 

pig- 

Bacon should have a thin rind, and 
the fat should be firm, and tinged red 
by the curing ; the flesh should be of 
a clear red, without intermixture of 
yellow, and it should firmly adhere to 
the bone. To judge the state of a bam, 
plunge a knife into it to the bone ; on 
drawing it back, if particles of meat 
adhere to it, or if the smell is disagree- 
able, the curing has not been effectual, 
and the ham is not good; it should, in 
such a state, be immediately cooked. 
In buying a ham, a short thick one is 
to be preferred to one long and thin. 

Venison. — When good, the fat is 
clear, bright, and of considerable thick- 
ness. To know when it is necessary 
to cook it, a knife must be plunged 
into the haunch ; and from the smell 
the cook must determine on dressing or 
keeping it. 

Turkey. — In choosing poultry, the 
age of the bird is the chief point to be 
attended to. An old turkey has rough 
and reddish legs ; a young one smooth 
and black. Fresh killed, the eyes are 
ftill and clear, and the feet moist. 
When it has been kept too long, the 
parts about the vent nave a greenish 
appearance. 

Common Domestic Fowls, when 
young, have the legs and combs smooth ; 
when old they are rough, and on the 
breast long hairs are found instead of 
feathers. Fowls and chickens should 
be plump on the breast, fat on the 



CHOICE OF FOOD. 



161 



back, and white-legged. 

Geese. — The bills and feet are red 
when old, yellow when young. Fresh 
killed, the feet are pliable ; stiff, when 
too long kept. Geese are called green 
while they are only two or three months 
old. 

Ducks. — Choose those with supple 
feet and hard plump breasts. Tame 
ducks have yellow feet, wild ones, 
red. 

Pigeons are very indifferent food 
when they are too long kept. Supple- 
ness of the feet shows them to be 
young ; the state of the flesh is flaccid 
when they are getting bad from keep- 
ing. Tame pigeons are larger than 
the wild. 

Hares and Rabbits, when old, have 
the haunches thick, the ears dry and 
tough, and the claws blunt and ragged. 
A young hare has claws smooth and 
sharp, ears that easily tear, and a nar- 
row cleft in the lip. 

Partridges, when young, have 
yellowish legs and dark colored bills. 
Old partridges are very indifferent 
eating. 

Woodcocks and Snipes, when old, 
have the feet thick and hard ; when 
these are soft and tender, they are both 
young and fresh killed. When their 
bills become moist, and their throats 
muddy, they have been too long 
killed. 

Names and Situations of the 
Various Joints. — Meats. — In diflTer- 
ent places the method of cutting up 
carcases varies. That which we de- 
scribe below is the most general, and 
is known as the English method. 

1. Beef. — Fore-quarter, — Fore rib 
(five ribs) ; middle rib (four ribs) ; 
chuck (three ribs). Shoulder piece 
(top of fore leg) ; brisket (lower or 
belly part of the ribs) ; clod (fore 
shoulder blade) ; neck; shin (below the 
shoulder) ; cheek. Hind-quarter. — Sir- 
loin ; rump ; aitchbone — these are the 
three divisions of the upper part of the 
quarter ; buttock and mouse-buttock, 
which divide the thigh ; veiny piece, 
joining the buttock ; thick flank and 
thin flank (belly pieces) and leg. The 
11 



sirloin and rump of both sides form a 
baron. Beef is in season all the year ; 
best in the winter. 

2. Mutton. — Shoulder; breast (the 
belly) ; over which are the loin (chump, 
or tail end) ; loin (best end) ; and neck 
(best end) ; neck (scrag end). A chine 
is two necks ; a saddle, two loins ; 
then there are the leg and head. Mut' 
ton is the best in winter, spring, and 
autumn. 

3. Lamb is cut into fore-quarter and 
hind-quarter ; a saddle, or loin ; neck, 
breast, leg, and shoulder. Grass Lamb 
is in season from Easter to Michaelmas ; 
House Lamb from Christmas to end of 
March. 

4. Pork is cut into leg, hand, or 
shoulder ; hind-loin ; fore-loin ; belly- 
part ; spare-rib (or neck) ; and head. 
Pork is in season nearly all the year. 

5. Veal is cut into neck (scrag end) ; 
neck (best end) ; loin (best end) ; loin 
(chump or tail end) ; fillet (upper part 
of hind leg) ; hind knuckle, which 
joins the fillet ; knuckle of fore leg ; 
blade (bone of shoulder) ; breast (best 
end) ; breast (brisket end), and hand. 
Veal is always in season, but dear in the, 
winter and spring. 

Venison is cut into haunch (or 
back); neck; shoulder; and breast. 
Doe venison is best in January, October, 
November, and December, and Buck 
venison in June, July, August, and Sep- 
tember. 

Scottish Mode of Division. — 
According to the English method the 
carcass of beef is disposed of more eco- 
nomically than upon the Scotch plan. 
The English plan affords better steaks 
and better joints for roasting ; but the 
Scotch plan gives a greater variety of 
pieces for boiling. The names of pieces 
in the Scotch plan, not found in the 
English, are the hough, or hind leg ; 
the nineholes, or English buttock ; the 
large and small runner, taken from the 
rib and chuck pieces of the English 
plan ; the shoulder-Iyer, the English 
shoulder, but cut differently ; the spare- 
rib or fore-sye, the sticking piece, etc. 
The Scotch also cut mutton diffc^rently. 

Ox-Tail is much esteemed for pur- 



162 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



poses of soup ; so also is the cheek. 
The TONGUE is highly esteemed. 

Calves' Heads are very useful for 
various dishes ; so also are their 

KNUCKLES, feet, HEART, etC. 

The' city reader is fortunate who 
resides near a good market. A little 
system applied to the task of market- 
ing will save much atmoyance, time 
and labor. Be regular about the days 
and hour of going to market. Read 
the newspapers and keep posted about 
seasonable food and its cost. 

Relative Economy of the Joints. 
— The Round is, in large families, 
one of the most profitable parts : it is 
usually boiled, and, like most of the 
boiling parts of beef, is generally sold 
at a less price than roasting joints. 

The Brisket is also less in price 
than the roasting parts. It is not so 
economical a part as the round, having 
more bone to be weighed with it, and 
more fat. Where there are children, 
very fat joints are not desirable, being 
often disagreeable to them, and some- 
times prejudicial, especially if they 
have a dislike to fat. This joint also 
requires more cooking than many 
others; that is to say, it requires a 
double allowance of time to be given 
for boiling it ; it will, when served, be 
hard and scarcely digestible if no more 
time be allowed to boil it than that 
which is sufficient for other joints and 
meats. When stewed it is excellent ; 
and when cooked fresh [i. e., unsalted), 
an excellent stock for soup may be ex- 
tracted from it, and yet the meat will 
serve as well for dinner. 

The Edqebone, or Aitchbone, is 
not considered to be a very economical 
joint, the bone being large in propor- 
tion to the meat ; but the greater part 
of it, at least, is as good as that of any 
prime part. It sells for less than roast- 
ing joints. 

The Rump is the part of which the 
butcher makes great profit, by selling 
it in the form of steaks. In the country, 
as there is not an equal demand for 
steaks, the whole of it may be pur- 
chased as a joint, and at the price of 
other prime parts. It may be turned 



to good account in producing many 
excellent dishes. If salted, it is sim- 
ply boiled ; if used unsalted, it is gei - 
erally stewed. 

The Veiny Piece is sold at a low 
price per pound ; but, if hung for a 
day or two, it is very good and very 
profitable. Where there are a number 
of servants and children to have an 
early dinner, this part of beef will be 
found desirable. 

The Leg and Shin afford excellent 
stock for soup ; and, if not reduced too 
much, the meat taken from the bones 
may be served as a stew with vege- 
tables ; or it may be seasoned, pounded 
with butter, and potted; or, chopped 
very fine, and seasoned with herbs, and 
bound together by egg and bread 
crumbs, it may be fried in balls, or in 
the form of large eggs, and served 
with a gravy made with a few spoon- 
fuls of the soup. 

Ox Cheek makes excellent soup. 
The meat, when taken from the bones, 
may be served as a stew. 

The Sirloin and the Ribs are the 
roasting parts of beef, and these bear, 
in all places, the highest price. The 
most profitable of these two joints at a 
family table is the ribs. The bones, 
if removed from the beef before it is 
roasted, will assist in forming the basis 
of a soup. When boned, the meat of 
the ribs is often rolled up, tied with 
strings, and roasted ; and this is the 
best way of using it, as it enables the 
carver to distribute equally the upper 
part of the meat with the fatter and 
more skinny parts, at the lower end 
of the bones. 

Indications of Wholesome Mush- 
rooms. — Whenever a ftingus is pleas- 
ant in flavor and odor, it may be con- 
sidered wholesome ; if, on the contrary, 
it have an offensive smell, a bitter, as- 
tringent, or styptic taste, or even if it 
leave an unpleasant flavor in the mouth, 
it should not be considered fit for food. 
The color, figure, and texture of these 
vegetables do not afford any characters 
on which we can safely rely ; yet it 
may be remarked that in color the pure 
yellow, gold color, bluish pale, dark or 



MARKETING. 



163 



lustre brown, wine red, or the violet, 
belong to many that are eatable ; while 
the pale or sulphur-yellow, bright or 
blood-red, and the greenish, belong to 
few but the poisonous. The safe kinds 
have, most frequently, a compact, brit- 
tle texture; the flesh is white; they 
grow more readily in open places, such 
as dry pastures and waste lands, than 
in places humid or shaded by wood. 
In general, those should be suspected 
which grow in caverns and subterra- 
nean passages, on animal matter un- 
dergoing putrefaction, as well as those 
v;hose flesh is soft or watery. 

To Distinguish Mushrooms from 
Poisonous Fungi. — Sprinkle a little 
salt on the spongy part or gills of the 
sample to be tried. If they turn yel- 
low, they are poisonous, — if black, 
they are wholesome. Allow the salt 
to act before you decide on the question. 

False mushrooms have a warty cap, 
or else fragments of membrane, ad- 
hering to the upper surface, are heavy, 
and emerge from a vulva or bag ; they 
grow in tufts or clusters in woods, on 
the stumps of trees, etc., whereas the 
true mushrooms grow in pastures. 

False mushrooms have an astrin- 
gent, styptic, and disagreeable taste. 

When cut they turn blue. 

They are moist on the surface, and 
generally 

Of a rose or orange color. 

The gills of the true mushroom are 
of a pinky red, changing to a liver 
color. 

The flesh is white. 

The stem is white, solid, and cylin- 
drical. 

Drying Herbs. — Fresh herbs are 
preferable to dried ones, but as they 
cannot always be obtained, it is most 
important to dry herbs at the proper 
seasons : — Basil is in a fit state for 
drying about the middle of August. 
Burret in June, July, and August. 
Chervil in May, June, and July. 
Elder Flowers, in May, June, and 
July. Fennel in May, June, and July. 
Knotted Marjoram during July. Lemon 
Thyme, end of July and through 
August. Mint, end of June and July. 



Orange Flowers, May, June, and July. 
Orange Thyme (a delicious herb), June 
and July. Parsley, May, June, and 
July. Sage, August and September. 
Summer Savory, end of July and 
August. Thyme, end of July and 
August. Winter Savory, end of July 
and August. 

These herbs, always at hand, will be 
a great aid to the cook. Herbs should 
be gathered on a dry day ; they should 
be immediately well cleansed, and 
dried by the heat of a stove. The 
leaves should then be picked ofl^, 
pounded and sifted, put into stop- 
pered bottles, labelled, and put away for 
use. 

Rules for Marketing.— The best 
rule for marketing is to pay ready 
money for everything, and to deal with 
the most respectable tradesmen in your 
neighborhood. If you leave it to their 
integrity to supply you with a good 
article at the fair market price, you 
will be supplied with better provisions, 
and at as reasonable rates as those bar- 
gain-hunters who trot " around, around, 
around about " a market till they are 
trapped to buy some unchewable old 
poultry, tough mutton, stringy cow- 
beef, or stale fish, at a very little less 
than the price of prime and proper 
food. With savings like these, they 
toddle home in triumph, cackling all 
the way, like a goose that has got 
ankle-deep into good luck. All the 
skill of the most accomplished cook 
will avail nothing, unless she is fur- 
nished with prime provisions. The 
best way to procure these is to deal at 
stores of established character. You 
may appear to pay, perhaps, ten per 
cent, more than you would were you to 
deal with those who pretend to sell 
cheap, but you would be much more 
than in that proportion better served. 
Every trade has its tricks and decep- 
tions. Those who follow them can 
deceive you if they please, and they 
are too apt to do so if you provoke the 
exercise of their over-reaching talent. 
Challenge them to a game at " Catch 
who can," by entirely relying on your 
own judgment, and you will soon find 



164 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



nothing but very long experience can 
make you equal to the combat of mar- 
keting to the utmost advantage. If 
you think a tradesman has imposed 
upon you, never use a second word, 
if the first will not do, nor drop the 
least hint of an imposition ; the only 
method to induce him to make an 
abatement is the hope of future favors. 
Pay the demand, and deal with the 
gentleman no more ; but do not let 
him see that you are displeased, or as 
soon as you are out of sight your 
reputation will suffer as much as your 
pocket has. Before you go to market, 
look over your larder, and consider 
well what things are wanting — espe- 
cially on a Saturday. No well-regu- 
lated family can suffer a disorderly 
caterer to be jumping in and out to 
make purchases on a Sunday morn- 
ing. You will be enabled to manage 
much better if you will make out a bill 
of fare for the week on the Saturday 
before; for example, for a family of 
half-a-dozen : — 

Sunday — Roast beef and pudding. 

Monday — Fowl, what was left of pudding fried, or 

warmed in tlie oven. 
Tuesday — Cairs bead, apple pie. 
Wednesday — Leg of mutton. 

Thursday — Ditto broiled or hashed, and pancakes. 
Friday — Fish, pudding. 
Saturday — Fish, or eggs and bacon. 

It is an excellent plan to have certain 
things on certain days. When your 
butcher or poulterer knows what you 
will want, he has a better chance of 
doing his best for you; and never 
think of ordering beef for roasting 
except for Sunday. When you order 
meat, poultry, or fish, tell the trades- 
man when you intend to dress it : he 
will then have it in his power to serve 
you with provision that will do him 
credit, which the finest meat, etc., in 
the world will never do, unless it has 
been kept a proper time to be ripe and 
tender. 

We would here remark, what will 
Boon be seen by a careful housewife, 
that we have tried to meet her wants, 
and have avoided the extravagances 
of the modern cook-book. Our aim 
is to give such directions as will en- 
able her to keep a good table at a 



reasonable cost, and to dress it in sucb 
a manner that will banish the monster 
Dyspepsia from the household. 

Amount of Food. — As a general 
rule, it may be set down that a healthy 
man, taking ordinary exercise, should 
consume daily — of Meat, about | of a 
pound ; of Bread, the same ; of Pota- 
toes and other Vegetables, 1^ pounds; 
of Cheese, 2 ounces ; Butter, 1 ounce ; 
Sugar, the same ; Tea, J an ounce ; 
or Coffee, 1 ounce. The Meat may, 
and should, be sometimes changed for 
its equivalent in Fish ; and if Pudding 
or Pie be taken, so much Vegetables 
will not be required. A larger amount 
of solid food than the above cannot 
be conducive to health, and is very 
likely, if persisted in, to produce actual 
disease, the more especially if the 
food be of a rich and stimulating 
character. Females, whose habits gen- 
erally are less active than those of 
males, cannot, as a rule, take, with 
advantage, above three-fourths, or per- 
haps half this quantity; nor can any 
person whose digestive powers are at 
all weak. It is of consequence that, 
by such, the kind of food which 
contains the most nourishment in a 
small compass should be taken. We 
would, therefore, advise the reduction 
in the above scale to be made in the 
Vegetables, and the Cheese must be 
dispensed with, as indeed it may well 
be in all cases. We should, perhaps, 
have included Milk in the scale, for, 
although in a liquid form, it contains 
a considerable proportion of solid mat- 
ter ; from 2 to 4 ounces daily may be 
taken with advantage by a healthy, 
active person. Those who require 
nourishment in a concentrated form 
may take at least double the quantity, 
and an Egg or two daily, if they find 
that they can digest it. Light farina- 
ceous Puddings are also good for such, 
and when these are obtainable, Vege- 
tables may be altogether discarded. 

Various Processes of Cooking. - 
1. "In the hands of an expert cook," 
says Majendie, " alimentary substances 
are made almost entirely to change 
their nature, their form, consistence. 



COOKING PROCESSES. 



165 



odor, savor, color, chemical composi- 
tion, etc. ; everything is so modified, 
that it is often impossible for the most 
exquisite sense of taste to recognize 
the substance which makes up the 
basis of certain dishes. The greatest 
utility of the kitchen consists in 
making the food agreeable to the 
senses, and rendering it easy of diges- 
tion." 

2. To some extent the claims of 
either process of cooking depend upon 
the taste of the individual. Some 
persons may esteem the peculiar flavor 
of fried meats, while others will prefer 
broils or stews. It is important, how- 
ever, to understand the theory of each 
method of cooking, so that whichever 
may be adopted, may be done well. Bad 
cooking, though by a good method, is 
far inferior to good cooking by a bad 
method. 

ROASTING.— Beef.— The noble 
sirloin of about fifteen pounds (if much 
thicker the outside will be done too 
much before the inner side is sufii- 
ciently roasted), will require to be be- 
fore the fire about three and a half or 
four hours. Take care to spit it evenly, 
that it may not be heavier on one side 
than the other. Put a little clean 
dripping into the dripping-pan (tie a 
sheet of paper over it to preserve the 
fat), baste it well as soon as it is put 
down, and every quarter of an hour 
all the time it is roasting, till the last 
half-hour. Then take off the paper, 
and make some gravy for it, stir the 
fire and make it clear. To brown and 
froth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, 
baste it with butter, and dredge it with 
flour ; let it go a few minutes longer, 
till the froth rises, take it up, put it 
on the dish, etc. Garnish it with 
hillocks of horse-radish, scraped as 
fine as possible with a very sharp 
knife. 

A Yorkshire Pudding is an ex- 
■cellent accompaniment. 

Ribs of Beef. — The three first ribs, 
■of fifteen or twenty pounds, will take 
three hours, or three and a half; the 
fourth an i fifth ribs will take as long, 
managed in the same way, as the sir- 



loin. Paper the fat and thin part, or 
it will be done too much, before the 
thick part is done enough. 

Ribs of Beef Boned and Rolled. 
— Wheu you have kept two or three 
ribs of beef till quite tender, take out 
the bones, and skewer it as round as 
possible (like a fillet of veal) : before 
they roll it, some cooks egg it, and 
sprinkle it with veal stuflSng. As the 
meat is in a solid mass, it will require 
more time at the fire than in the pre- 
ceding recipe : a piece of ten or twelve 
pounds weight will not be well and 
thoroughly roasted in less than four 
and a half or five hours. For the first 
half-hour it should not be less than 
twelve inches from the fire, that it may 
get gradually warm to the centre ; the 
last half-hour before it is finished, 
sprinkle a little salt over it, and if you 
so wish, froth it, flour it, etc. 

Mutton. — As beef requires a large 
sound fire, mutton must have a brisk 
and sharp one : if you wish to have 
mutton tender, it should be hung as 
long as it will keep, and then good 
eight-tooth, i. e. four years' old mutton, 
is as good eating as venison. 

The Leg, Haunch, and Saddle, 
will be the better for being hung up in 
a cool airy place for four or five days 
at least ; in temperate weather, a week ; 
in cold weather, ten days. A leg of 
eight pounds will take about two 
hours ; let it be well basted. 

A Chine or Saddle — i. e., the two 
loins, of ten or eleven pounds — two 
hours and a half. It is the business 
of the butcher to take off the skin and 
skewer it on again, to defend the meat 
from extreme heat, and preserve its 
succulence. If this is neglected, tie a 
sheet of paper over it ; baste the strings 
you tie it on with directly, or they will 
burn. About a quarter of an hour be- 
fore you think it will be done, take off 
the skin or paper, that it may get a 
pale-brown color, and then baste it, 
and flour it lightly to froth it. 

A Shoulder of seven pounds, an 
hour and a half. Put the spit in close 
to the shank-bone, and run it along 
the blade-bone. 



166 



you ask! — I'll tell! 



A LoiK OF Mutton, from an hour 
and a half to an hour and three-quarters. 
The most elegant way of carving this, 
is to cut it lengthwise, as you do a 
saddle. A neck, about the same time 
as a loin. It must be carefully jointed, 
or it is very difficult to carve. 

The Neck and Breast are, in 
small families, commonly roasted to- 
gether. The cook will then crack the 
bones across the middle before they 
are put down to roast. If this is not 
done carefully, they are very trouble- 
some to carve. A breast, an hour and 
a quarter. 

A Haunch — i. e., the leg and part 
of the loin of mutton. Send up two 
sauce-boats with it ; one of rich-drawn 
mutton gravy, made without spice or 
herbs, and the other of sweet sauce. It 
generally weighs about fifteen pounds, 
and requires about three hours and a 
half to roast it. 

Mutton (Venison fashion). — Take 
a neck of good four or five-year old 
Southdown wether mutton, cut long in 
the bones ; let it hang, in temjjerate 
weather, at least a week. Two days 
before you dress it, take allspice and 
black pepper, ground and pounded 
fine, a quarter of an ounce of each, rub 
them together, and then rub your mut- 
ton well with this mixture twice a day. 
When you dress it, wash off the spice 
with warm water, and roast it in paste. 

Veal requires particular care to 
roast it a nice brown. Let the fire be 
the same as for beef — a sound large fire 
for a large joint, and a brisker for a 
smaller : put it at some distance from 
the fire to soak thoroughly, and then 
draw it nearer to finish it brown. When 
first laid down it is to be basted ; baste 
it again occasionally. When the veal 
is on the dish, pour over it half a pint 
of melted butter : if you have a little 
brown gravy by you, add that to the 
butter. With those joints which are 
not stuffed, send up forcemeat in balls, 
or rolled into sausages, as garnish to 
the dish, or fried pork sausages : bacon 
and greens are always expected with 
veal. 
Fillet of Veal, of from twelve to 



sixteen pounds, wili require from four 
to five hours at a good fire ; make some 
stufl5ng or forcemeat, and put it under 
the flap, that there may be some left to 
eat cold, or to season a hash : brown it, 
and pour good melted butter over it. 
Garnish with thin slices of lemon, and 
cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuff- 
ing, or fried pork sausages, curry sauce, 
bacon and greens, etc. 

A Loin is the best part of the calf, 
and will take about three hours roast- 
ing. Paper the kidney fat, and the 
back : some cooks send up on a toast, 
which is eaten with the kidney and the 
fat of this part, which is more delicate 
than any marrow, etc. If there is more 
of it than you think will be eaten with 
the veal, before you roast it cut it out, 
it will make an excellent suet pudding : 
take care to have your fire long enough 
to brown the ends. 

A Shoulder of Veal, from three 
hours to three hours and a half : stuff 
it with the forcemeat ordered for the 
fillet of veal, in the under side. 

Neck, the best end, will take two 
hours. The scrag part is best made 
into a pie or broth. Breast, from an 
hour and a half to two hours. Let the 
caul remain till it is almost done, then 
take it off, to brown it ; baste, flour, and 
froth it. 

Veal Sweetbread. — Trim a fine 
sweetbread — it cannot be too fresh : 
parboil it for five minutes, and throw 
into a basin of cold water ; roast it 
plain, or beat up the yolk of an egg, 
and prepare some fine bread crumbs. 
When the sweetbread is cold, dry it 
thoroughly in a cloth, run a lark spit 
or a skewer through it, and tie it on 
the ordinary spit ; egg it with a paste 
brush, powder it well with bread- 
crumbs, and roast it. For sauce, fried 
bread-crumbs round it, and malted 
butter with a little mushroom kei-cliup 
and lemon juice, or serve on buttered 
toast, garnish with egg sauce, or with, 
gravy. 

Lamb is a delicate and commonly 
considered tender meat; but those 
who talk of tender lamb, while they 
are thinking of the age of the animal, 



ROASTING AND BOILING. 



167 



forget that even a chicken must be 
kept a proper time after it has been 
killed, or it will be tough picking. 
Woeful experience has warned us to 
beware of accepting an invitation to 
dinner on Easter Sunday ; and unless 
commanded by a thoroughbred gour- 
mand, our incisors, molars, and prin- 
cipal viscera, have protested against 
the imprudence of encountering young, 
tough, stringy mutton under the mis- 
nomer of Grass-Lamb. To the usual 
accompaniments of roasted meat, 
green mint sauce or a salad is com- 
monly added ; and some cooks, about 
five minutes before it is done, sprinkle 
it with a little minced parsley. 

When Green Mint cannot be got, 
Mint Vinegar is an acceptable substi- 
tute for it. 

Hind-Quarter of eight pounds 
will take from an hour and three- 
quarters to two hours ; baste, and froth 
it. 

Fore-Quarter of ten pounds, 
about two hours. 

It is a pretty general Custom, 
when you take off the shoulder from 
the ribs, to squeeze a Seville orange 
over them, and sprinkle them with a 
little pepper and salt. 

Leg of five pounds, from an hour to 
an hour and a half. 

Shoulder, with a quick fire, an 
hour. 

ElBS, about an hour to an hour and 
a quarter. Joint it nicely, crack the 
ribs across, and bend them up to make 
it easy to carve. 

Loin, an hour and a quarter. Neck, 
an hour. Breast, three quarters of an 
hour. 

Poultry, Game, etc. ^ ^ 

a small capon, fowl, or chicken, requires 20 

A large fowl 45 

A capon, full size 35 

A goose 1 

Wild ducks, and grouse 15 

Pheasants, and turkey poults 20 

A nioderate sized turkey, stuffed 1 15 

Partridges 25 

ftuail 10 

A hare orrabbit about 1 

Leg of pork, ^ hour for each pound, and above 

tliat allowance 20 

A chine of pork 20 

A neck of mutton 1 30 

A haunch of venison about 3 30 



Roasting, by causing the Con- 
traction of the cellular substance 
which contains the fat, expels more 
fat than boiling. The free escape of 
watery particles in the form of vapor, 
80 necessary to produce flavor, must 
be regulated by frequent basting with 
the fat which has exuded from the 
meat, combined with a little salt and 
water, otherwise the meat would 
burn, and become hard and tasteless. 
A brisk fire at first will, by charring 
the outside, prevent the heat from 
penetrating, and therefore should only 
be employed when the meat is half 
roasted. 

The Loss by Roasting varies, ac- 
cording to Professor Donovan, from 
14fths to nearly double that rate per 
cent. The average loss on roasting 
butcher's meat is 22 per cent. ; and on 
domestic poultry is 20^. 

The Loss per Cent, on Roasting 
Beef, viz., on sirloins and ribs to- 
gether, is 19|th ; on mutton, viz., legs 
and shoulders together, 24^th8 ; on 
fore-quarters of lamb, 22^d ; on ducks, 
275th ; on turkeys, 20j ; on geese, 19^ ; 
on chickens, 14|ths. So that it will 
be seen by comparison with the per- 
centage given of the loss by boiling, 
that roasting is not so economical ; es- 
pecially when we take into account 
that the loss of weight by boiling ia 
not actual loss of economic materials, 
for we then possess the principal in- 
gredients for soups ; whereas, after 
roasting, the fat only remains. The 
average loss in boiling and roasting 
together is 18 per cent, according to 
Donovan, and 28 per cent, according 
to Wallace — a difference that may be 
accounted for by supposing a differ- 
ence in the fatness of the meat, dura- 
tion and degree of heat, etc., employed. 

BOILING. — This most simple of 
culinary processes is not often per- 
formed in perfection ; it does not re- 
quire quite so much nicety and attend- 
ance as roasting ; to skim your pot well, 
and keep it really boiling (the slower 
the better) all the while — to know how 
long is required for doing the joint, 
etc., and to take it up at the critical 



168 



YOLT 



ASK ; — I'll tell ! 



moment when it ia done enough — com- 
prehends almost the whole art and 
mystery. This, however, demands a 
patient and perpetual vigilance, of 
which few persons are, unhappily, 
capable. The cook must take especial 
care that the water really boils all the 
while she ia cooking, or she will be 
decieved in the time ; and make up 
a sufficient fire (a frugal cook will 
manage with much less fire for boiling 
than she uses for roasting) at first to 
last all the time, without much mend- 
ing or stirring, and thereby save much 
trouble. When the pot is coming to a 
boil, there will always, from the clean- 
eat meat and clearest water, rise a scum 
to the top of it, proceeding partly from 
the foulness of the meat and partly 
from the water ; this must be carefully 
taken off", as soon as it rises. On this 
depends the good appearance of all 
boiled things — an essential matter. 
When you have scummed well, put in 
some cold water, which will throw up 
the rest of the scum. The oftener it is 
scummed, and the clearer the surface 
of the water is kept, the cleaner will 
be the meat. If let alone, it soon boils 
down and sticks to the meat, which, 
instead of looking delicately white and 
nice, will have tliat coarse appearance 
we have too often to complain of, and 
the butcher and poulterer will be 
blamed for the carelessness of the cook, 
in not scumming her pot with due dili- 
gence. Many put in milk to make 
what they boil look white, but this does 
more harm than good ; others wrap it 
up in a cloth ; but these are needless 
precautions ; if the scum be attentively 
removed, meat will have a much more 
delicate color and finer flavor than it 
has when muffled up. This may give 
rather more trouble — but those who 
wish to excel in their art must only 
consider how the processes of it can be 
most perfectly performed. A cook who 
has a proper pride and pleasure in her 
business will make this her maxim 
and rule on all occasions. Put your 
meat into cold water, in the proportion 
of about a quart of water to a pound of 
meat ; it should be covered with water 



during the whole of the process of 
boiling, but not drowned in it ; the less 
water, provided the meat be covered 
with it, the more savory will be the 
meat, and the better will be the broth 
in every respect. The water should 
be heated gradually, according to the 
thickness, etc., of the article boiled ; 
for instance, a leg of mutton of ten 
pounds weight should be placed over 
a moderate fire, which will gradually 
make the water hot, without causing 
it to boil for about forty minutes ; 
if the water boils much sooner, the 
meat will be hardened, and shrink up 
as if it was scorched : by keeping the 
water a certain time heating without 
boiling, its fibres are dilated, and it 
yields a quantity of scum, which must 
be taken off" as soon as it rises, for the 
reasons already mentioned. " If a ves- 
sel containing water be placed over a 
steady fire, the water will grow con- 
tinually hotter, till it reaches the limit 
of boiling ; after which the regular ac- 
cessions of heat are wholly spent in 
converting it into steam ; the water re- 
mains at the same pitch of temperature, 
however fiercely it boils. The only 
diff"erence is, that with a strong fire it 
sooner comes to a boil, and more quickly 
boils away, and is converted into 
steam." Such are the opinions stated 
by Buchanan in his " Economy of 
Fuel." There was placed a thermome- 
ter in water in that state which cooks 
call gentle simmering — the heat was 
212°, i. e., the same degree as the 
strongest boiling. Two mutton chops 
were covered with cold water, and one 
boiled fiercely, and the other simmered 
gently, for three-quarters of an hour ; 
the flavor of the chop which was sim- 
mered was decidedly superior to that 
which was boiled; the liquor which 
boiled fast was in like proportion more 
savory, and, when cold, had much 
more fat on its surface ; this explains 
why quick boiling renders meat hard, 
etc., — because its juices are extracted 
in a greater degree. 

Reckon the Time from the meat 
first coming to a boil. The old rule of 
fifteen minutes to a pound of meat, we 



BOILIXG. 



169 



think rather too little ; the slower it 
boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and 
whiter it will be. For those who choose 
their food thoroughly cooked (which 
all will who have any regard for their 
stomachs), twenty minutes to a pound 
will not be found too much for gentle 
simmering by the side of the fire ; al- 
lowing more or less time, according to 
the thickness of the joint and the cold- 
ness of the weather ; always remember- 
ing, the slower it boils the better. 
Without some practice it is difficult to 
teach any art ; and cooks seem to sup- 
pose they must be right, if they put 
\ meat into a pot, and set it over the fire 
for a certain time — making no allow- 
ance whether it simmers without a 
bubble, or boils at a gallop. 

Fresh killed Meat will take 
much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the 
butchers call ripe, and longer in cold 
than warm weather ; if it be frozen, it 
must be thawed before boiling as before 
roasting ; if it be fresh killed, it will be 
tough and hard, if you stew it ever 
so long, and ever so gently. In cold 
weather, the night before you dress it, 
bring it into a place of which the tem- 
perature is not less than 45° of Fahren- 
heit's thermometer. The size of the 
boiling-pots should be adapted to what 
they are to contain ; the larger the 
saucepan the more room it takes upon 
the fire ; and a larger quantity of water 
requires a proportionate increase of fire 
to boil it. In small families, we re- 
commend block- tin saucepans, etc., as 
lightest and safest ; if proper care 
is taken of them, and they are well 
dried after they are cleansed, they are 
by far the cheapest ; the purchase of a 
new tin saucepan being little more 
than the expense of tinning a copper 
one. Take care that the covers of 
your boiling-pots fit close, not only to 
prevent unnecessary evaporation of the 
water, but that the smoke may not in- 
sinuate itself under the edge of the lid, 
and give the meat a bad taste. 

The following Table will be 
useful as an average of the time re- 
quired to boil the various articles : 



H. M. 

A ham, 20 fbs. weight, requires 6 3ft 

A tongiie (if dry), after soaking 4 

A tongue out of pickle 2J/^ to 3 

A neck of mutton 1 30 

A chicken 20 

A large fowl 45 

A capon 35 

A pidgeon 15 

If you let Meat or Poultry re- 
main IN the Water after it is done 
enough, it will become sodden and lose 
its flavor. 

Beef and Mutton a little under- 
done (especially very large joints, 
which will make the better hash or 
broil) is preferred by some people. 
Lamb, pork, and veal are uneatable if 
not thoroughly boiled — but do not 
overdo them. A trivet, or fish-drainer, 
put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, 
raising the contents about an inch and 
a half from the bottom, will prevent 
that side of the meat which comes next 
the bottom being done too much, and 
the lower part will be as delicately done 
as the upper ; and this will enable you 
to take out the meat without inserting 
a fork, etc., into it. If you have not 
a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup- 
plate laid the wrong side*upwards. 

Take Care of the Liquor you 
have boiled poultry or meat in ; in 
five minutes you may make it into 
soup. 

The Good Housewife never boils 
a joint without converting the broth 
into some sort of soup. 

If the Liquor be too Salt, use 
only half the quantity, and the rest 
water; wash salted meat well with 
cold water before you put it into the 
boiler. 

Boiling Extracts a Portion of 
the Juice of meat, which mixes with 
the water, and also dissolves some of 
its solids ; the more fusible parts of the 
fat melt out, combine with the water, 
and form soup or broth. The meat 
loses its red color, becomes more 
savory in taste and smell, and more 
firm and digestible. If the process 
is continued too long, the meat becomes 
indigestible, less succulent, and tough. 

The Loss by Boiling varies, accord- 
ing to Professor Donovan, from 6J to 



170 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



16 per cent. The average loss on boil- 
ing butcher's meat, pork, hams, and 
bacon, is 12 per cent. ; and on domes- 
tic poultry, 14|. 

The Loss per cent, on boiling 
salt beef is 15 ; on legs of mutton, 10 ; 
hams, 12J; salt pork, 13^; knuckles 
of veal, 8) ; bacon, Q} ; turkeys, 16 ; 
chickens, 13J. 

Economy of Fat. — In most fami- 
lies many members are not fond of fat 
— servants seldom like it ; conse- 
quently there is frequently much 
wasted ; to avoid which, take off bits 
of suet fat from beefsteaks, etc., pre- 
vious to cooking. They can be used 
for puddings. With good manage- 
ment there need be no waste in any 
shape or form. 

BROILING requires a brisk, rapid 
heat, which, by producing a greater 
degree of change in the affinities of 
the raw meat than roasting, generates 
a higher flavor, so that broiled meat 
is more savory than roast. The sur- 
face becoming charred, a dark-col- 
ored crust is formed, which retards 
the evaporation of the juices; and, 
therefore, if properly done, broiled may 
be as tender and juicy as roasted meat. 

BAKING does not admit of the 
evaporation of the vapors so rapidly 
as by the processes of broiling and 
roasting. The fat is also retained more, 
and becomes converted, by the agency 
of the heat, into an empyreumatic oil, 
so as to render the meat less fitted for 
delicate stomachs, and more difficult to 
digest. The meat is, in fact, partly 
boiled in its own confined water, and 
partly roasted by the dry, hot air of the 
oven. The loss by baking has not been 
estimated ; and as the time required to 
cook many articles must vary w'ith their 
size, nature, etc., we have considered it 
better to leave that until giving the re- 
cipes for them. 

FRYING is, of all methods, the most 
objectionable, from the foods being less 
digestible when thus prepared, as the 
fut employed undergoes chemical 
changes. Olive-oil in this respect is 
preferable to lard or butter. The 
irackling noise which accompanies the 



process of frying meat in a pan is oc- 
casioned by the explosions of steam 
formed in fat, the temperature of which 
is much above 212°. If the meat is 
very juicy, it will not fry well, because 
it becomes sodden before the water is 
evaporated ; and it will not brown, be- 
cause the temperature is too low to 
scorch it. To fry fish well the fat 
should be boiling hot (600°), and the 
fish well dried in a cloth ; otherwise, 
owing to the generation of steam, the 
temperature will fall so low that it will 
be boiled in its own steam, and not be 
browned. Meat, or indeed any article, 
should be frequently turned and agi- 
tated during frying, to promote the 
evaporation of the watery particle». 
To make fried things look well, they 
should be done over twice with egg and 
stale bread-crumbs. 

BASTINGS. — 1, Fresh butter ; 2, 
clarified suet ; 3, minced sweet herbs, 
butter, and claret, especially for mut- 
ton and lamb ; 4, water and salt ; 5, 
cream and melted butter, especially for 
a flayed pig ; 6, yolks of eggs, grated 
biscuit, and juice of oranges. 

DREDGINGS. — 1, Flour mixed 
with grated bread ; 2, sweet herbs dried 
and powdered, and mixed with grated 
bread ; 3, lemon - peel dried and 
pounded, or orange-peel, mixed with 
flour ; 4, sugar finely powdered, and 
mixed with pounded cinnamon, and 
flour or grated bread ; 5, fennel seeds, 
corianders, cinnamon, and sugar, finely 
beaten, and mixed with grated bread 
or flour ; 6, for young pigs, grated 
bread or flour, mixed with beaten nut- 
meg, ginger, pepper, sugar, and yolks of 
eggs ; 7, sugar, bread, and salt mixed. 

The Housewife who is anxious to 
dress no more meat than will suffice 
for the meal should know that beef 
loses about one pound in four in boil- 
ing, but in roasting, loses in the pro- 
portion of one pound five ounces, and 
in baking, about two ounces less, or 
one pound three ounces ; mutton loses 
in boiling about fourteen ounces in 
four pounds ; in roasting, one pound 
six ounces. 

COOKS should be cautioned against 



A SHORT FABLE. 



171 



the use of charcoal in any quantity, 
except where there is a free current of 
air ; for charcoal is highly prejudicial 
in a state of ignition, although it may 
be rendered even actively beneficial 
when boiled, as a small quantity of it, 
if boiled with meat on the turn, will 
effectually cure the unpleasant taint. 

Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Fry- 
ing, Roasting, Stewing, and Spoil- 
ing. — A Dialogue between the 
Dutch Oven, the Saucepan, the 
Spit, the Gridiron, and the Frying- 
pan, with reflections thereupon, in 
which all housekeepers and cooks are 
invited to take an interest. 

We were once standing by our scul- 
lery, when all of a sudden we heard a 
tremendous clash and jingle — the 
Saucepan had tumbled into the Fry- 
ing-pan ; the Frying-pan had shot its 
handle through the ribs of the Grid- 
iron ; the Gridiron had bestowed a 
terrible thump upon the hollow head of 
the Dutch Oven ; and the Spit had 
dealt a very skilful stroke, which shook 
the sides of all the combatants, and 
made them ring out the noises by 
which we were startled. Musing upon 
this incident, we fancied that we over- 
heard the following dialogue : 

Frying-pan. — Hollo, Saucepan I 
what are you doing here, with your 
dropsical corporation ? Quite time 
that you were superannuated; you are 
a mere meat-spoiler. You adulterate 
the juices of the best joint, and give to 
the stomach of our master little else 
than watery compounds to digest. 

Saucepan. — Well ! I like your 
conceit ! You — who harden the fibre 
of flesh so much, that there is no tell- 
ing whether a steak came from a bul- 
lock, a horse, or a bear ! — who can't 
fry a slice of potato, or a miserable 
smelt, but you must be flooded with 
oil or fat, to keep your spiteful nature 
from burning or biting the morsel our 
master should enjoy. Not only that — 
you open your mouth so wide, that the 
soot of the chimney drops in, and fre- 
quently spoils our master's dinner ; or 
you throw the fat over your sides, and 
Bet the chimney in a blaze ' 



Spit. — Go on I go on I six of one 
and half-a-dozen of the other I 

Dutch Oven. — Well, Mr, Spit, 
you needn't try to foment the quarrel. 
You require more attention than ^ny 
of us; for if you are not continually 
watched, and helped by that useful 
little attendant of yours they call a Jack, 
your lazy, lanky figure would stand 
still, and you would expose the most 
delicious joint to the ravages of the 
fire. In fact, you need not only a Jack 
to keep you going, but a cook to con- 
stantly baste the joint confided to your 
care, without which our master would 
have but a dry bone to pick. Not only 
so, but you thrust your spear-like 
length through the best meat and 
make an unsightly gash in a joint 
which otherwise might be an ornament 
to the table. 

Spit. — What, Dutch Oven, is that 
you ? venerable old sobersides, with a 
hood like a monk I Why, you are a 
mere dummy — as you are placed so 
you remain ; there you stand in one 
place, gaping wide and catching the 
coals as they fall ; if you were not 
well watched, you would burn the one 
half, and sodden the other, of whatever 
you were required to prepare. Bad 
luck to your impertinence ! 

Gridiron.— Peace ! peace ! We all 
have our merits and our demerits. — At 
this remark of the Gridiron, there was 
a general shout of laughter. 

Saucepan.— Well, I declare I I 
never thought that I should have my 
merits classed with those of the miser- 
able skeleton called a Gridiron. That 
is a joke ! A thing with six ribs and 
a tail to compare with so useful 
a member of the cuisine community as 
myself! Why you. Gridiron, waste 
one-half of the goodness of the meat 
in the fire, and the other half you send 
to the table tainted with smoke, and 
burnt to cinders I — A loud rattle of 
approbation went round, as the poor 
Gridiron fell under this torrent of de- 
rision from the Saucepan. 

Coming away from the scene of con- 
fusion, we ordered the scullerymaid 
to go instantly and place each of the 



172 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



utensils that lay In disorder upon the 
ground into its proper place, charging 
her to cleanse each carefully, until it 
should be required for use. 

Returning to our library, we thought 
it would form no mean occupation 
were we to spend a few hours in re- 
flection upon the relative claims of the 
disputants. We did so, and the fol- 
lowing is the result : 

The Gridiron. — The Gridiron, 
though the simplest of cooking instru- 
ments, is by no means to be despised. 
The Gridiron, and indeed all cooking 
utensils, should be kept scrupulously 
clean ; and when it is used, the bars 
should be allowed to get warm before 
the meat is placed upon it, other- 
wise the parts crossed by the bars 
will be insufficiently dressed. The fire 
tihould be sharp, clear, and free from 
smoke. The heat soon forms a film 
upon the surface of the meat, by which 
the juices are retained. Chops and 
steaks should not be too thick nor too 
thin. From a half to three-quarters 
of an inch is the proper thickness. 
Avoid thrusting the fork into the 
meat, by which you release the juice. 
There is a description of Gridiron, in 
which the bars are grooved to catch 
the juice of the meat; but a much 
better invention is the upright Grid- 
iron, which is attached to the front of 
the grate, and has a pan at the bottom 
to catch the gravy. Kidneys, rashers, 
etc., dressed in this manner will be 
found delicious. There are some, 
however, who think that the dressing 
of meat over the fire secures a flavor 
which cannot otherwise be obtained. 
Remember that the Gridiron is de- 
voted to the cooking of small dishes, 
or snacks, for breakfast, supper, and 
luncheon, and is therefore a most use- 
ful servant, ready at a moment's 
notice. Remember, also, that every 
moment which is lost, after the Grid- 
iron has delivered up his charge, is a 
delay to the prejudice of the Gridiron. 
From the Gridiron to the table with- 
out loss of time should be the rule. 

The Fryino-pan is less a favorite, 
in our estimation, than the Gridiron ; 



but not to be despised, nevertheless. 
He is a noisy and a greasy servant, re- 
quiring much watchfulness. Like the 
Gridiron, the Frying-pan requires a 
clear but not a large tire, and the pan 
should be allowed to get thoroughly 
hot, and be well covered with fat, be- 
fore meat is put into it. The excel- 
lence of frying very much depends 
upon the sweetness of the oil, butter, 
lard, or fat that may be employed. 
The Frying-pan is very useful in the 
warming of cold vegetables and other 
kinds of food, and in this respect may 
be considered a real friend of economy. 
All know the relish afibrded by a pan- 
cake — a treat which the Gridiron 
would be unable to afford us — to say 
nothing of eggs and bacon, and various 
kinds of fish, to which both the Sauce- 
pan and the Gridiron are quite unsuit- 
ed, because they require that which is 
the essence of frying, boiling and brown- 
ing in fat. 

The Spit is a very noble and very 
useful implement of cookery; as an- 
cient, we presume, as he is straightfor- 
ward at his work. Perhaps the pro- 
cess of roasting stands only second in 
the rank of excellence in cookery. The 
process is perfectly sound in its chemi- 
cal effects upon the food, while the 
joint is kept so immediately under the 
eye of the cook, that it must be the 
fault of that functionary if it does not 
go to the table in the highest state of 
perfection. The process of roasting 
may be commenced very slowly, by the 
meat being kept a good distance from 
the fire, and gradually brought for- 
ward, until it is thoroughly soaked 
within and browned without. The 
Spit has this advantage over the Oven, 
and especially over the common oven, 
that the meat retains its own flavor, 
not having to encounter the evapora- 
tion from fifty different dishes, and 
that the steam from its own substance 
passes entirely away, leaving the 
essence of the meat in its primest con- 
dition. 

The Dutch Oven, though not so 
royal an instrument as the Spit, is, 
nevertheless, of great utility for small 



BEEF. 



173 



dishes of various kinds, which the 
Spit would spoil by the magnitude of 
its operations, or the Oven destroy by 
the severity of its heat. It combines, 
in fact, the advantages of roasting and 
baking, and may bo adopted for com- 
pound dishes, and for warming cold 
scraps : it is easily heated, and causes 
no material expenditure of fuel. 

The Saucepan. — When we come 
to speak of the Saucepan, we have to 
consider the claims of a very large, 
ancient, and useful family ; and, per- 
haps, looking at the generic orders of 
the Saucepan, all other cooking imple- 
ments must yield to its claims. There 
are large Saucepans, which we dignify 
with the name of Boilers, and small 
Saucepans, which come under the de- 
nomination of Stewpans. There are 
few kinds of meat or fish which it will 
not receive, and dispose of in a satis- 
factory manner ; and few vegetables 
for which it is not adapted. The 
Saucepan, rightly used, is a very eco- 
nomical servant, allowing nothing to 
be lost — that which escapes from the 
meat while in its charge forms broth, 
or may be made the basis of soups. 
Fat rises upon the surface of the water, 
and may be skimmed ofl*; while in 
various stews it combines, in an emi- 
nent degree, what we may term the 
fragrance of cookery, and the piquancy 
of taste. The French are perfect mas- 
ters of the use of the Stewpan. And 
we shall find that, as all cookery is 
but an aid to digestion, the operations 
of the Stewpan resemble the action of 
the stomach very closely. The stomach 
is a close sac, in which solids and fluids 
are mixed together, macerated in the 
gastric juice, and dissolved by the aid 
of heat and motion, occasioned by the 
continual contractions and relaxations 
of the coats of the stomach during the 
action of digestion. This is more 
closely resembled by the process of 
stewing than by any other of our culi- 
nary methods. 

In this rapid review of the claims 
of various cooking utensils, \fe 
think that we have done justice to 
each. Thej all have their respective 



advantages ; besides which, they con- 
tribute to the VARIETY presented by 
our tables, without which the routine 
of eating would be very monotonous 
and unsatisfactory. 

There is one process to which we 
must yet allude — the process of Spoil- 
ing. Many cooks know how to produce 
a good dish, but too many of them 
know how to spoil it. They leave 
iifty things to be done just at the criti- 
cal moment when the chief dish should 
be watched with an eye of keenness, 
and attended by a hand thoroughly 
expert. Having spent three hours in 
making a joint hot and rich, they for- 
get that a quarter of an hour, after it 
is taken from the fire, may impair or 
spoil all their labors. 

Baked or Roast Meat. — Meat ia 
better roasted than baked ; but in these 
days of cooking stoves, the latter mode 
of cooking is generally the most con- 
venient; and if basted frequently, it 
can be rendered nearly as good as if 
roasted. Rub salt on the meat ; have 
at least a pint of water in the dripping- 
pan, adding more as it cooks away ; 
turn it over the meat while cooking, 
four or five times in the course of an 
hour ; if not basted often, it will be 
dry and hard. Heat it gradually 
through, then increase the fire so that 
it will cook quick. 

To Roast a Sirloin of Beef. — As a 
joint cannot be properly roasted with- 
out a good fire, see that it is well made 
up about f hour before it is required, 
so that when the joint is put down, it 
is clear and bright. Choose a nice sir- 
loin, the weight of which should not ex- 
ceed 16 pounds, as the outside would be 
too much done, while the inside would 
not be done enough. Spit it or hook 
it on to the jack firmly, dredge it 
slightly with flour, and place it near 
the fire at first, as directed in the pre- 
ceding recipe. Then draw it to a dis- 
tance, and keep continually basting 
until the meat is done. Sprinkle a 
small quantity of salt over it, empty 
the dripping-pan of all the dripping, 
pour in some boiling water slightly 
salted, stir it about, and strain over the 



174 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



meat. Garnish with tufts of hoi-se- 
radish, and send horseradish sauce and 
Yorkshire pudding to table with it. 

Time, a sirloin of 10 lbs., 2J hours ; 
14 to 16 lbs., about 4 or 4J hours. 

Sufficient, a joint of 10 lbs., for eight 
or nine persons. Seasonable at any time. 

The rump, round, and other pieces 
of beef are roasted in the same manner, 
allowing for solid joints quarter of an 
hour to every pound. 

Broiled Beef-steaks or Rump- 
steaks. — Ingredients. — Steaks, a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, salt 
to taste, 1 tablespoonful of good mush- 
room ketchup or Harvey's sauce. 

Mode. — As the success of a good 
broil so much depends on the state of 
the fire, see that it is bright and clear, 
and perfectly free from smoke; and 
do not add any fresh fuel just before 
the gridiron is to be used. Sprinkle a 
little salt over the fire, put on the 
gridiron for a few minutes, to get 
thoroughly hot through ; rub it with a 
piece of fresh suet, to prevent the meat 
from sticking, and lay on the steaks, 
which should be cut of an equal thick- 
ness, about \ of an inch, or rather 
thinner, and level them by beating 
them (as little as possible) with a roll- 
ing-pin. Turn them frequently with 
steak-tongs (if these are not at hand, 
stick a fork in the edge of the fat, that no 
gravy escapes), and in from eight to ten 
minutes the steaks will be done. Have 
ready a very hot dish, into which put 
the ketchup, and, when liked, a little 
minced shalot ; dish up the steaks, rub 
them over with butter, and season with 
pepper and salt. The exact time for 
broiling stakes must be determined by 
taste, whether they are liked under- 
done orwell-done: more thanfrom eight 
to ten minutes for a steak \ inch in 
thickness, we think, would spoil and 
dry up the juices of the meat. Great 
expedition is necessary in sending 
broiled steaks to table; and, to have 
them in perfection, they should not be 
cooked till everything else prepared for 
dinner has been dished up, as their ex- 
cellence entirely depends on their 
being served up hot. They may be 



garnished with scraped horseradish, o» 
slices of cucumber. Oyster, tomato, 
onion, and many other sauces, are fre- 
quent accompaniments to rump-steak, 
but true lovers of this dish generally 
reject all additions but pepper, salt, and 
a tiny piece of butter. 

Time, 8 to 10 minutes. Sufficient. — 
Allow J lb. to each person ; if the 
party consist entirely of gentlemen, % 
lb. will not be too much. Seasonable 
all the year, but not so good in the 
height of summer, as the meat cannot 
hang long enough to be tender. 

To Dress a Bullock's Heart.— Put 
the heart into warm water to soak for 
two hours ; then wipe it well with a 
cloth, and, after cutting off the lobes, 
stuff" the inside with a highly-seasoned 
forcemeat. Fasten it in, by means of 
a needle and coarse thread; tie the 
heart up in paper, and set it before a 
good fire, being very particular to keep 
it well basted, or it will eat dry, there 
being but very little of its own fat. 
Two or three minutes before serving, 
remove the paper, baste well, and serve 
with good gravy and red-currant jelly 
or melted butter. If the heart is very 
large, it will require two hours, and, 
covered with a caul, may be baked as 
well as roasted. 

Time, large heart, two hours. Suffi- 
cient for six or eight persons. Season- 
able, all the year. 

Note. — This is an excellent family dish, is very 
savory, and, though not seen at many good tables, 
may be recommended for its cheapness and 
economy. 

Fried Rump - Steak. — Although 
broiling is a far superior method of 
cooking steaks to frying them, yet, 
when the cook is not very expert, the 
latter mode may be adopted ; and, 
when properly done, the dish may 
really look very inviting, and the 
flavor be good. The steaks should be 
cut rather thinner than for broiling, 
and with a small quantity of fat to 
each. Put some butter or clarified 
dripping into a frying-pan ; let it get 
quite hot, then lay in the steaks. 
Turn them frequently until done, 
which will be in about eight minutes, 



BEEF. 



175 



or rather more, should the steaks be 
very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, 
in which put a small piece of butter, 
and a tablespoonful of ketchup, and 
season with pepper and salt. They 
should be sent to table quickly, as, 
when cold, the steaks are entirely 
spoiled. 

Time, eight minutes for a medium- 
sized steak,rather longer for a very thick 
one. Seasonable all the year, but not 
good in summer, as the meat cannot 
hang to get tender. 

Note. — Where much gravy is liked, make it in 
the following manner: — As soon as the steaks are 
done, dish them, pour a little boiling water into 
the frying-pau, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, 
a small piece of butter, and a tablespoonful of Har- 
vey's sauce, or mushroom ketchup. Hold the pau 
over the fire for a minute or two, just let the gravy 
eimmer, then pour on the steak, and serve. 

Stewed Beef, or Rump-Steak (an 
Entree ) . — Ingredients. — About 2 
pounds of beef, or i-ump-steak, 3 onions, 2 
turnips, 3 carrots, 2 or 3 ounces of but- 
ter, i pint of water, 1 tea^poonful of 
salt, ^ do. of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of 
ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

Mode. — Have the steaks cut tolera- 
bly thick, and rather lean. Divide 
them into convenient-sized pieces, and 
fry them in the butter a nice brown 
on both sides. Cleanse and pare the 
vegetables, cut the onions and carrots 
into thin slices, and the turnips into 
dice, and fry these in the same fat 
that the steaks were done in. Put all 
into a saucepan, add j pint of water, 
or rather more should it be necessary, 
and simmer very gently for 2^ or 3 
hours; when nearly done, skim well, 
add salt, pepper, and ketchup in the 
above proportions, and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour mixed with two 
of cold water. Let it boil up for a 
minute or two after the thickening is 
added, and serve. When a vegetable 
scoop is at hand, use it to cut the vege- 
tables in fanciful shapes, and tomato, 
Harvey's sauce, or walnut-liquor, may 
be used to flavor the gravy. It is less 
rich if stewed the previous day, so that 
the fat may be taken off when cold. 
When wanted for table, it will merely 
require warming through. 



Time, three hours. Sufficient for 
four or five persons. Seasonable at any 
time. 

Baked Beef (Gold Meat Cookery). 

I. Ingredients. — About 2 pounds of 
cold roast beef, 2 small onions, 1 large 
carrot or 2 small ones, 1 turnip, a small 
bunch of savory herbi^, salt and pepper to 
taste, 12 tablespoonfuls of gravy, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of ale, crushed or mashed pota- 
toes. 

Mode. — Cut the beef in slices, 
allowing a small amount of fat to each 
slice. Place a layer of this in the bot- 
tom of a pie-dish, with a portion of 
the onions, carrots, and turnips, which 
must be sliced. Mince the herbs, 
strew them over the meat, and season 
with pepper and salt. Then put an- 
other layer of meat, vegetables, and 
seasoning ; and proceed in this manner 
until all the ingredients are used. 
Pour in the gravy and ale (water may 
be substituted for the former, but it is 
not so nice), cover with a crust or 
mashed potatoes, and bake for half 
an hour, or rather longer. 

Time, rather more than half an 
hour. Sufficient for five or six persona. 
Seasonable at any time. 

Note. — It is us well to parboil the carrots and 
turnips before adding them to the meat, and to use 
some of the liquor iu which they were boiled as a 
substitute for gravy ; that is to say, when there ia 
no gravy at hand. Be particular to cut the onions 
iu Vfcry Oiin slices. 

II. Ingredients. — Slices of cold 
roast beef, salt and pepper to taste, 1 sliced 
onion, 1 teaspoonful of minced savory 
herbs, about 12 tablespoonfuls of gravy 
or sauce of any kind, mashed potatoes. 

Mode. — Butter the sides of a deep 
dish, and spread mashed potatoes over 
the bottom of it. On this place layers 
of beef in thin slices (this may be 
minced if there is not sufficient beef to 
cut into slices), well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and a very little 
onion and herbs, which should be pre- 
viously fried of a nice brown ; then 
put another layer of mashed potatoes 
and beef, and other ingredients, as be- 
fore. Pour in the gravy or sauce, 
cover the whole with another layer of 



176 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



potatoes, and bake for half an hour. 
This may be served in the dish, or 
turned out. 

Time, half hour. Sufficient, a large 
pie-dish full for five or six persons. 
Seasonable at any time. 

Broiled Beef and Mushroom 
Sauce.— Cold Meat Cookery.— In- 
gredients. — 2 or ^ dozen small button 
mushrooms, 1 ounce of butter, salt and 
Cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of 
mtishroom ketchup, mashed potatoes, 
ilices of cold roast beef. 

Mode. — Wipe the mushrooms free 
from grit with a piece of flannel, and 
Bait. Put them in a stewpan with 
the butter, seasoning, and ketchup ; 
shake the pan over the fire until the 
mushrooms are quite done, then pour 
them in the middle of mashed pota- 
toes, browned; then place round the 
potatoes slices of cold roast beef, nicely 
broiled, over a clear fire. In making 
the mushroom sauce, the ketchup may 
be dispensed with, if there is sufficient 
gravy. 

Tim£, quarter hour. Seasonable from 
August to October. 

Hashed Beef (Cold Meat Cook- 
ery). — Ingredients. — The remains 
of ribs or sirloin of beef, 2 onions, 1 car- 
rot, 1 bunch of savory herbs, pepper 
and salt to taste, i blade of pounded 
mace, thickening of flour, rather more 
than 1 pint of water. 

Mode. — Take off all the meat from 
the bones of ribs or sirloin of beef, 
Eemove the outside brown and gris- 
tle. Place the meat on one side, and 
well stew the bones and pieces, with 
the above ingredients, for about two 
hours, till it becomes a strong gravy, 
and is reduced to rather more than a 
half pint. Strain this, thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour, and let the gravy 
cool. Skim ofif all the fat. Lay in the 
meat, let it get hot through, but do 
not allow it to boil, and garnish with 
sippets of toasted bread. The gravy 
may be flavored as in the preceding 
recipe. 

Time, rather more than two hours. 
Seaaonable at any time. 

NuU. — May b« lerred iu walls of maabed pota- 



toes, brown, in which case the sippets sbonld b« 
omitted. Be careful that hMhed meat does not 
boil, or it will become tough. 

Potted Beef (Cold Meat Cookery.) 

— Ingredients. — The remains of cold 
roast or boiled beef, \ lb. (^ butter, Cay- 
enne to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace. 

Mode. — The outside slices of boiled 
beef may, with a little trouble, be con- 
verted into a very nice addition to the 
breakfast table. Cut up the meat into 
small pieces, and pound it well, with 
a little butter, in a mortar; udd a 
seasoning of Cayenne and mace, and be 
very particular that the latter ingredi- 
ent is reduced to the finest powder. 
When all the ingredients are thor- 
oughly mixed, put into glass or earthen 
potting-pots, and pour on the top a 
coating of clarified butter. 

Seasonable at any time. 

Note. — If cold roast beef is used, remove all 
pieces of gristle and dry outside pieces, as these do 
not pound well. 

Stewed Beef with Oysters (Cold 
Meat Cookery) — Ingredients. — 
A few thick steaks of cold ribs or sirloin 
of beef, 2 ounces of butter, 1 onion sliced, 
pepper and salt to taste, J glass of port 
wine, a little flour to thicken, 1 or 2 
dozen oysters, rather more than ^ pint 
of water. 

Mode. — Cut the steaks rather thick, 
from cold sirloin or ribs of beef. 
Brown them lightly in a stewpan, with 
the butter and a little water. Add 
half a pint of water, the onion, pep- 
per, and salt. Cover the stewpan 
closely, and let it simmer very gently 
for half an hour. Then mix about a 
teaspoonful of flour smoothly with a 
little of the liquor. Add the port wine 
and oysters, their liquor having been 
previously strained and put into the 
stewpan. ' Stir till the oysters plump, 
and serve. It should not boil after the 
oysters are added, or they will harden. 

Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef —After 
this joint has been in salt five or six 
days, it will be ready for use, and will 
not take so long boiling as a round, for 
it is not so solid. Wash the meat, and, 
if too salt, soak it for a few hours, 
changing tho water once or twice, till 



BEEF. 



171 



the required freshness is obtained. Put 
into a saucepan, or boiling pot, suffi- 
cient water to cover the meat ; set it 
over the fire, and when it boils, plunge 
in the joint and let it boil up quickly. 
Kow draw the pot to the side of the fire, 
and there let it remain until the water 
is sufficiently cooled that the finger may 
be borne in it. Then draw the pot 
nearer the fire, and keep the water 
gently simmering until the meat is done, 
or it will be hard and tough if rapidly 
boiled. Carefully remove the scum 
from the surface of the water, and con- 
tinue doing this for a few minutes after 
it first boils. Carrots and turnips are 
served with this dish, and sometimes 
suet dumplings, all of which may be 
boiled with the beef. Garnish with a 
few of the carrots and turnips, and 
serve the remainder in a vegetable-dish. 
Time, an aitch-bone of 10 pounds, 2i 
hours after the water boils ; one of 20 
pounds, 4 hours. Sufficient, 10 pounds 
for seven or eight persons. Seasonable 
all the year, but best from September 
to March. 

Note. — The liquor in which the meat has been 
boiled may be easily converted into a very excel- 
lent pea-soup. It will require but few vegetables, 
as it will be impregnated with the flavor of those 
boiled with the meat. 

If the beef is not to be eaten until it 
is cold, do not take it out when it is 
sufficiently boiled, but remove the pot 
from the fire, and let it remain until 
nearly cold, then take out the beef. 
This is the secret of having cold corned 
beef juicy and full flavored, instead of 
dry as a chip. 

Beef Minced. — Cut into small dice 
remains of cold beef: the gravy re- 
served from it on the first day of it be- 
ing served should be put in the stew- 
pan, with the addition of warm water, 
some mace, sliced shalot, salt, and 
black pepper. Let the whole simmer 
gently for an hour. A few minutes be- 
fore it is served, take out the meat and 
dish it; add to the gravy some walnut 
ketchup, and a little lemon juice or 
walnut pickle. Boil up the gravy once 
more, and, when hot, pour it over the 
meat. Serve it with bread sippets. 

12 



Rump-Steak Pie. — Cut 3 pounda 
of rump-steak (that has been kept till 
tender) into pieces half as big as your 
hand, trim off all the skin, sinews, and 
every part which has not indisputable 
pretensions to be eaten, and beat them 
with a chopper. Chop very fine half 
a dozen shalots, and add to them half an 
ounce of pepper and salt mixed. StreW 
some of the mixture at the bottom of 
the dish, then a layer of steak, then 
some more of the mixture, and so ow 
till the dish is full, and half a gill of 
mushroom ketchup, and the sam^ 
quantity of gravy, or red wine. Cover 
it as in the preceding recipe, and bake 
it two hours. Large oysters, parboiled, 
bearded, and laid alternately with the 
steaks, their liquor reduced and sub- 
stituted instead of the ketchup and 
wine, will be a variety. 

Plain Beefsteak Pie. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 2^ pounds of beefsteak, a little 
pepper, salt, and Cayenne, a little water, 
or gravy if you have it, 1 tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, the yolk of 1 
^99 i h o- pound of paste. 

Cut the steak into small pieces with 
a very little fat ; dip each piece into 
flour, place them in a pie-dish, season* 
ing each layer with pepper, salt, and a 
very little Cayenne pepper. Fill the 
dish sufficiently with slices of steak to 
raise the crust in the middle ; half fill 
the dish with water or any gravy left 
from roast beef, and a spoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Put a border 
of paste round the wet edge of the pie- 
dish, moisten it and lay the crust over 
it. Cut the paste even with the edge 
of the pie-dish all round, ornament it 
with leaves of paste, and brush it over 
with the beaten yolk of an egg. Make 
a hole with a knife in the top, and 
bake it in a hot oven one and a half 
hours. 

A Beef Stew. — Time, two hours and 
twenty minutes. 

Ingredients. — 2 or 3 pounds of the 
rump of beef, 1 quart of broth, pepper 
and salt, tJie peel of 1 lemon, and the 
juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce, 
1 spoonful of flour, a little ketchup. 

Cut away all the skin and fat from 



i78 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



two or three pounds of the rump of 
beef, and divide it into pieces about two 
or three inches square. Put into a 
stewpan, and pour on it a quart of 
broth ; then let it boil, and sprinkle in 
pepper and salt to taste. When it has 
boiled very gently, or simmered two 
hours, shred finely the peel of a large 
lemon, and add it to the gravy. In 
twenty minutes pour in a flavoring, 
composed of two spoonfuls of Harvey 
sauce, the juice of the lemon, the flour, 
and a little ketchup. Add at pleasure 
a glass of sherry, a quarter of an hour 
after flavoring it, and serve. 

Beefsteak Puddinff. — Time, to boil, 
two hours, or a little longer. 

Ingredients. — 1^ pounds of flour, 
J a pound of chopped suet, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt, 2 pounds of steak, salt and 
black pepper to taste, 1 gill of water. 

Put a pound, or a little more, of 
flour in a basin, and mix it thoroughly 
with some very finely chopped suet ; 
put in a good heaped saltspoonful of 
salt. Mix it to a paste with water ; 
flour the paste board, the roller, and 
your hands. Take out the lump of 
paste, and roll it out about half an 
inch thick. 

Butter a round-bottomed pudding- 
basin, line it with paste, turning a 
little over the edge. Cut up the steak 
into small pieces, with a little fat, flour 
them slightly, season highly with pep- 
per and salt, then lay them in a basin, 
po«r over them a gill of water. Roll 
out the rest of the paste, cover it over 
the top of the basin, pressing it down 
with the thumb. 

Tie the basin in a floured pudding- 
cloth, and put it into a saucepan in a 
gallon of boiling water, keep it con- 
tinually boiling for three hours, occa- 
sionally adding a little more water. 

Take it up, untie tlie cloth, turn the 

Sudding over on the dish, and take the 
asin carefully from it. Serve. 
Some persons, of delicate digestion, 
like this pudding boiled without a 
basin, on account of the superior light- 
ness the crust thus acquires, but it 
does not look nearly as well when 
served. 



Stewed Shin of Beef — A Family 
Dish, — Tiine, four hours and a quarter. 

Ingredients. — A shin of beef, 1 bunch 
of sweet herbs, 1 large onion, 1 head of 
celery, 12 black pepper corns, 12 allspice, 
3 carrots, 2 turnips, 12 small button 
onions. 

Saw the bone into three or four 
pieces ; put them into a stewpan, and 
just cover them with cold water. When 
the pot simmers, skim it clean ; and 
then add the sweet herbs, oiions, 
celery, peppers, and allspice. Stew it 
very gently over a slow fire till the 
meat is tender. Then peel the carrots 
and turnips and cut them into shapes ; 
boil them with the button onions till 
tender. The turnips and onions will 
take a quarter of an hour to boil, the 
carrots half an hour. Drain them 
carefully. Put the meat when done on 
a dish, and keep it warm while you 
prepare some gravy thus : 

Take a teacupful of the liquor in 
which the meat has been stewed, and 
mix with it three tablespoonfuls of 
flour ; add more liquor till you have ? 
pint and a half of gravy. Season with 
pepper, salt, and a wineglass of mush- 
room ketchup. Boil it up, skim off" the 
fat, and strain it through a sieve. 
Pour it over the meat, and lay the 
vegetables around it. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. — As mutton, 
when freshly killed, is never tender, 
hang it almost as long as it will keep ; 
flour it, and put it in a cool airy place 
for a few days, if the weather will per- 
mit. Wash off the flour, wipe it very 
dry, and cut off the shankbone ; put 
it down to a brisk clear fire, dredge 
with flour, and keep continually bast- 
ing the whole time it is cooking. About 
twenty minutes before serving, draw it 
near the fire to get nicely brown ; 
sprinkle over it a little salt, dish the 
meat, pour off the dripping, add some 
boiling water slightly salted, strain it 
over the joint, and serve. 

Time, a leg of mutton weighing ten 
pounds, about two and a quarter or two 
and a half hours ; one of seven pounds, 
about two hours, or rather less. Suffi- 
cient. — A moderate-sized leg of mutton 



MUTTON. 



I7i) 



BuflScient for six or eight persons. Sea- 
sonable, at any time, but not so good in 
June, July, and August, 

Roast Loin of Mutton. — Cut and 
trim off the suiJerfluous fat, and see 
that the butcher joints the meat prop- 
erly, as thereby much annoyance is 
saved to the carver when it comes to 
table. Have ready a nice clear fire (it 
need not be a very wide large one), put 
down the meat, dredge with flour, and 
baste well until it is done. Make the 
gravy as for roast leg of mutton, and 
serve very hot. 

Time, a loin of mutton weighing six 

f>ounds, one hour and a half, or rather 
onger. Sufficient for four or five per- 
sons. Seasonable, at any time. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. — Cut the 
chops from a well-hung tender loin of 
mutton, remove a portion of the fat, 
and trim them into a nice shape; 
slightly beat and level them ; place the 
gridiron over a bright clear fire, rub 
the bars with a little fat, and lay on 
the chops. Whilst broiling, frequently 
turn them, and in about eight minutes 
they will be done. Season with pep- 

Ser and salt, dish them on a very hot 
ish, rub a small piece of butter on 
each chop, and serve very hot and ex- 
peditiously. 

Hashed Mutton. — Ingredients. — 
The remains of cold roast shoulder or leg 
of mutton, 6 whole peppers, 6 whole all- 
spice, a fag got of savory herbs, ^ head of 
eelery, 1 onion, 2 ounces of butter, flour. 
Mode. — Cut the meat in nice even 
slices from the bones, trimming off all 
superfluous fat and gristle; chop the 
bones and fragments of the joint; put 
them into a stewpan with the pepper, 
spice, herbs, and celery; cover with 
water, and simmer for one hour. Slice 
and fry the onion of a nice pale-brown 
color in the butter ; dredge in a little 
I'our to make it thick, and add this to 
the bones, etc. Stew for a quarter of 
an hour, strain the gravy, and let it 
cool ; then skim off every particle of 
fat, and put it, with the meat, into a 
stewpan. Flavor with ketchup, Har- 
vey's sauce, tomato sauce, or any flavor- 
ing that may be preferred, and let the 



meat gradually warm through, but not 
boil, or it will harden. To hash meat 
properly, it should be laid in cold 
gravy, and only left on the fire just 
long enough to warm through. 

Time, one hour and a half to simmer 
the gravy. Seasonable, at any time. 
Or, 

Make a gravy, and thicken it ; then 
place some nice slices of mutton in 
the cold gravy, allow the meat to get 
thoroughly hot, but on no account let 
it boil. 

Boiled Leg- of Mutton. — A leg of 
mutton for boiling should not hang too 
long, as it will not look a good color 
when dressed. Cut off the shank-bone, 
trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe 
it very clean ; plunge it into sufiicient 
boiling water to cover it ; let it boil up, 
then draw the saucepan to the side of 
the fire, where it should remain till the 
finger can be borne in the water. Then 
place it sufficiently near the fire, that 
the water may gently simmer, and be 
very careful that it does not boil fast, 
or the meat will be hard. Skim well, 
add a little salt, and in about 2^ hours 
after the water begins to simmer, a 
moderate-sized leg of mutton will be 
done. Serve with carrots and mashed 
turnips, which may be boiled with the 
meat, and send caper sauce to table 
with it in a tureen. 

Time, a moderate-sized leg of mutton 
of 9 pounds, 2\ hours after the water 
boils ; one of 12 pounds, 3 hours. Suffi- 
cient. — A moderate-sized leg of mutton 
for six or eight persons. Seasonable 
nearly all the year, but not so good in 
June, July, and August. 

Note. — When meat is liked very thoroughly 
cooked, allow more time than stated above. The 
liquor this joint was boiled in should be converted 
into soup. 

An excellent way to Cook a Breast 
of Mutton. — Ingredients. — Breast 
of mutton, 2 o?iions, salt and pepper to 
taste, flour, a bunch of savory herbs, 
gi'een peas. 

Mode. — Cut the mutton into pieces 
about two inches square, and let it be 
tolerably lean ; put it into a stewpan, 
with a little fat or butter, and fry it oi" 



180 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



a nice brown ; then dredge it in a little 
flour, slice the onions, and put it with 
the herbs in a stewpan ; pour in suffi- 
cient vf&terjust to cover the meat, and 
simmer the whole gently until the 
mutton is tender. Take out the meat, 
strain, skim off all the fat from the 
gravy, and put both the meat and 
gravy back into the stewpan ; add 
about a quart of young green peas, and 
let them boil geutly until done. Two 
or three slices of bacon added and 
stewed with the mutton give addi- 
tional flavor; and to insure the peas 
being a beautiful green color, they may 
be boiled in water separately, and added 
to the stew at the moment of serving. 

Time, 2J hours. Sufficient for four or 
five persons. Seasonable from June to 
August. 

Roast Shoulder of Mutton. — Put 
the joint down to a bright, clear fire; 
flour it well, and keep continually 
basting. About \ hour before serving, 
draw it near the fire, that the outside 
may acquire a nice brown color, but 
not sufficiently near to blacken the fat. 
Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, 
empty the dripping-pan of its contents, 
pour in a little boiling water slightly 
salted, and strain this over the joint. 
Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, 
are usually sent to table with this dish, 
and sometimes baked potatoes. 

Time. — A shoulder of mutton weigh- 
ing six or seven pounds, 1^ hours. Suffi- 
cient for five or six persons. Seasonable 
at any time. 

Note. — Slioulder of muttou may bo dressed in a 
Tariety of ways ; boiled, and served with oiiiou 
eauco ; boned, and stuffed with a good veal force- 
meat ; or baked, with sliced potatoes, in the drip- 
ping-pan. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. — Place the 
joint at a good distance from the fire 
at first, and baste well the whole time 
it is cooking. When nearly done, 
draw it nearer the fire to acquire a nice 
brown color. Sprinkle a little fine 
salt over the meat, empty the dripping- 

{)an of its contents ; pour in a little 
)oiling water, and strain this over the 
meat. Serve with mint sauce and a 
fresh salad, and for vegetables send 



peas, spinach, or cauliflowers to table 
with it. 

Tim£. — A leg of lamb weighing five 
pounds, \}i hours. Sufficient for four or 
five persons. Seasonable from Easter 
to Michaelmas. 

JS'oU. — A shoulder of lamb requires rather mor» 
than 1 hour to roast it. A small saddle, 1^ hours ; 
a larger saddle, 2 hours, or longer. Loin of lamb, 
1/4 to I/^ hours. Ribs of lamb, as they are thin- 
ner than the loin, from 1 to 1J4 hours. 

Lamb Chops. — Trim ofi"the flap from 
a fine loin ol lamb, and cut into chops 
about three-quarters of an inch in 
thickness. Have ready a bright, clear 
fire ; lay the chops on a gridiron, and 
broil them of a nice pale brown, turn- 
ing them when required. Season them 
with pepper and salt, and serve very 
hot and quickly, and garnish with crisp 
parsley, or place them on mashed po- 
tatoes. Asparagus, spinach, or peas, 
are the favorite accompaniments to 
lamb chops. 

Time, about eight or ten minutes. 
Sufficient — allow two chops to each 
person. Seasonable from Easter to 
Michaelmas. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb.— Do not 
choose a very large joint, but one 
weighing about five pounds. Have 
ready a saucepan of boiling water, into 
which plunge the lamb, and when it 
boils up again, draw it to the side of 
the fire, and let the water cool a little. 
Then stew it very gently for about one 
and a quarter hours, reckoning from 
the time that the water begins to sim- 
mer. Make some white sauce ; dish 
the lamb, pour the sauce over it, and 
garnish it with tufts of boiled cauli- 
flower or carrots. When liked, melted 
butter may be substituted for the white 
sauce : this is a more simple method, 
but not nearly so nice. Send to table 
with it some of the sauce in a tu- 
reen, and boiled cauliflowers or spin- 
ach, with whichever vegetable the dish 
is garnished. 

Time, one and a quarter hours 
after the water simmers. Sufficient for 
four or five persons. Seasonable from 
Easter to Michaelmas. 

Broiled Mutton and Tomato Sauce 



PORK. 



181 



(Cold Meat Cookery). — Cut some nice 
slices from a cold leg or shoulder of 
mutton ; season them with pepper and 
salt, and broil over a clear fire. Make 
some tomato sauce, pour it over the 
mutton, and serve. This makes an ex- 
cellent dish, and must be served very 
hot. 

Time, about five minutes to broil the 
mutton. Seasonable in September and 
October, when tomatoes are plentiful 
and seasonable. 

Baked Minced Mutton (Cold Meat 
Cookery). — Ingredients. — The re- 
mains of any joint of cold roast mutton, 
1 or 2 onions, 1 bunch of savory herbs, 
pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of 
pounded mace or nutmeg, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of gravy, mashed potatoes. 

Mode. — Mince an onion rather fine, 
and fry it a light-brown color ; add the 
herbs and mutton, both of which 
should be also finely minced and well 
mixed ; season with pepper and salt, 
and a little pounded mace or nutmeg, 
and moisten with the above proportion 
•of gravy. Put a layer of mashed po- 
tatoes at the bottom of a dish, then the 
mutton and another layer of potatoes, 
and bake for about half an hour. 

Time, half an hour. Seasonable at 
any time. 

Note. — If there should be a large quantity of 
uieat, use two onions instead of one. 

Roast Leg of Pork. — Choose a 
«mall leg of pork, and score the skin 
across in narrow strips, about a quar- 
ter of an inch apart. Cut a slit in 
the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it 
with a sage-and-onion stufiing. Brush 
the joint over with a little salad-oil 
(this makes the crackling crisper, and 
a better color), and put it down to a 
bright, clear fire, not too near, as that 
would cause the skin to blister. Baste 
it well, and serve with a little gravy 
made in the dripping-pan, and do not 
omit to send to the table with it a 
tureen of well-made apple sauce. 

Time. — A leg of pork weighing eight 
pounds, about three hcmrs. Sufficient 
Tor six or seven persons. Seasonable 
from September to March. 



Pork, Spare-rib. — Joint it nicely 

before roasting, and crack the ribs 
across. Take care not to have the fire 
too fierce. The joint should be basted 
with very little butter and flour, and 
may be sprinkled with fine dried sage. 
It takes from two to three hours. Apple 
sauce, mashed potatoes, and greens, are 
the proper accompaniments, also good 
mustard, fresh made. 

Pork Cutlets or Clioj)s. — Ingredi- 
ents. — Loin, or fore-lom, of pork, egg 
and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to 
taste; to every tablespoonful of bread- 
crumbs allow ^ teaspoonful of minced 
sage ; clarified butter. 

Mode. — Cut the cutlets from a loin, 
or fore-loin, of pork ; trim them the 
same as mutton cutlets, and scrape the 
top part of the bone. Brush them over 
with egg, sprinkled with bread crumbs, 
with which have been mixed minced 
sage ^nd a seasoning of pepper and 
salt; drop a little clarified butter on 
them, and press the crumbs well down. 
Put the frying-pan on the first with 
some lard in it ; when this is hot, 
lay in the cutlets, and fry them a 
light - brown on both sides. Take 
them out, put them before the fire to 
dry the greasy moisture from them, 
and dish them on mashed potatoes. 
Serve with them any sauce that may 
be preferred ; such as tomato sauce, 
sauce piquante, sauce Robert, or pickled 
gherkins. 

Time, from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes. Sufficient, allow six cutlets for 
four persons. Seasonable from October 
to March, 

Note. — The remains of roast loin of pork may be 
dressed in the same manner. 

To Bake a Ham. — As a ham for 

baking should be well soaked, let it 
remain in water for at least twelve 
hours. Wipe it dry, trim away any 
rusty places underneath, and cover it 
with a common crust, taking care that 
this is of sufiicient thickness all over 
to keep the gravy in. Place it in a 
moderately-heated oven, and bake for 
nearly four hours. Take oft' the crust 
and skin, and cover with raspings, the 



182 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



same as for boiled ham, and garnish 
the knuckle with a paper frill. This 
method of cooking a hum is, by many 
persons, considered far superior to 
boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravj' and 
has a finer flavor, besides keeping a 
much longer time good. 

Time, a medium-sized ham, four 
hours. Scasoitable, all the year. 

To Boil a Ham. — In choosing a 
ham, ascertain that it is perfectly 
sweet, by running a sharp knife into 
it, close to the bone ; and if, when the 
knife is withdrawn, it has an agreea- 
ble smell, the ham is good ; if, on the 
contrary, the bhide has a greasy ap- 
pearance and offensive smell, the ham 
is bad. If it has been long laung, and 
is very dry and salt, let it remain in 
soak from eight to twelve hours. Wash 
it thoroughly clean, and trim away 
from the underside all the rusty and 
smoked parts, which would spoil the 
appearance. Put it into a boiling-pot, 
with sufficient cold water to cover it ; 
bring it gradually to a boil, and as the 
scum rises, carefully remove it. Keep 
it simmering very gently until tender, 
and be careful that it does not stop 
boiling, nor boil too quickly. When 
done, take it out of the pot, strip off 
the skin, and sjirinkle over it a few 
fine bread-raspings, put a frill of cut 
paper round the knuckle, and serve 
If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain 
in the water until nearly cold : by this 
method the juices are kept in, and it 
will be found infinitely superior to one 
taken out of the water hot ; it should, 
however, be borne in mind that the ham 
must not remain in the saucepan all 
night. When the skin is removed, 
sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if 
wanted particularly nice, glaze it. Place 
a paper frill round the knuckle, and 
garnish with i)arsley, or cut vegetable 
flowers. 

Tune, a ham weighing ten pounds, 
four hours to simmer gently ; fifteen 
pounds, five hours ; a very large one, 
about six hours. Seasonable all the year. 

Boiled Leg of Pork.— For boiling, 
choose a small, compact, well-filled leg, 
and rub it well with salt; let it remain 



in pickle for a week or ten days, turn- 
ing and rubbing it every day. Au 
hour before dressing it, put it into 
cold water for an hour, which improves 
the color. If the pork is purchased 
ready salted, ascertain how long the 
meat has been in pickle, and soak it 
accordingly. Put it into a boiling-pot, 
with sufficient cold water to cover it; 
let it gradually come to a boil, and 
remove the scum as it rises. Simmer 
it very gently until tender, and do not 
allow it to boil fast or the knuckle will 
fall to pieces before the middle of the 
leg is done. Carrots, turnips, or pars- 
nips may be boiled with the pork, 
some of which should be laid round 
the dish as a garnish, and a well-made 
pease-pudding is an indispensable ac- 
companiment. 

Time. — A leg of pork weighing eight 
pounds, three hours after the water 
boils, and to be simmered very gently. 
tSuJficient for seven or eight persons. 
jSemonable from September to March. 

JVote. — The liquor in which a leg of pork has 
been boiled makes excellent psii-soup. 

Pig's Liver (a Savory and Eco- 
nomical Dish). — Ingredients. — The 
liver and lights of a pig, Q or 1 slices 
of bacon, potatoes, 1 large bunch of 
parsley, 2 onions, 2 sage-leaves, pepper 
and salt to taste, a little broth or water, 

Alode. — Slice the liver and lights, 
wash these perfectly clean, and par- 
boil the potatoes ; mince the parsley 
and sage, and chop the onion rather 
small. jPut the meat, potatoes, and 
bacon into a deep tin dish, in alternate 
layers, with a sprinkling of the herbs, 
and a seasoning of pepper and salt be- 
tween each ; pour on a little water or 
broth, and bake in a moderately-heated 
oven for two hours. 

Time, two hours. Sufficient for six 
or seven persons. Seasonable from 
September to March. 

To Boil Pickled Pork.— Should the 
pork be very salt, let it remain in water 
about two hours before it is dressed; 
put it into a saucepan with sufficient 
cold water to cover it, let it gradually 
come to a boil, then gently simmer 



VEAL. 



183 



until quite tender. Allow ample time 
for it to cook, as nothing is more dis- 
agreeable than underdone pork, and 
when boiled fast the meat becomes 
hard. This is sometimes served with 
boiled poultry and roast veal, instead 
of bacon ; when tender, and not over 
salt, it will be found equally good. 

Time, a piece of pickled pork weigh- 
ing two pounds, one hour and a quar- 
ter; four pounds rather more than 
two hours. Seasonable at any time. 

To Boil Bacon [English Break- 
fast). — As bacon is frequently exces- 
sively salt, let it be soaked in warm 
water for an hour or two previous to 
dressing it ; then pare off the rusty 
parts, and scrape the under-side and 
rind as clean as possible. Put it into 
a saucepan of cold water, let it come 
gradually to a boil, and as fast as the 
scum rises to the surface of the water, 
remove it. Let it simmer very gently 
until it is thoroughly done ; then take 
it up, strip off the skin, sprinkle over 
the bacon a few bread-raspings, and 
garnish with tufts of cauliflower or 
Brussels sprouts. When served alone, 
young and tender broad beans or green 
peas are the usual accompaniments. 

Time, one pound of bacon, three- 
quarters of an hour; two pounds, one 
hour and a half. Sufficient, two pounds 
for eight persons, when served with 
poultry or veal. Seasonable at any time. 

A Fillet of Veal. — A fillet is good 
baked. Take out the bone, and fill the 
vacancy with a dressing made of bread 
soaked soft, then squeezed out of the 
Water and mixed with chopped raw 
pork and two eggs. Season it with 
salt and pepper, and add, if you like, 
sweet herbs. Close up the meat after 
putting in the dressing, put it in the 
baking-pan with about a quart of 
water, cover the top with the dressing, 
and bake it from two to three hours, 
according to the size of the piece of 
veal. Thicken the gravy, after taking 
up the meat, with some of the dress- 
ing, add a little butter, and if liked 
quite rich, put in a small quantity of 
wine, or ketchup. 

Veal Cutlets. — Ingreptents. — 



About 3 pounds of the prime part of the 
leg of veal, egg and bread crurnbs, 3 
tablespoonfuls of minced savory hn-bs, 
salt and pepper to taste, a small pieiie of 
butter. 

Mode. — Have the veal cut into 
slices about three-fourths of an inch 
in thickness, and, if not divided 
evenly, level the meat with a cutlet- 
bat or rolling-pin. Shape and trim 
the cutlets, and brush them over with 
egg. Sprinkle with bread crumbs, with 
which have been mixed minced herbs 
and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and 
press the crumbs down. Fry them of 
a delicate brown in fresh lard or butter, 
and be careful not to burn them. They 
should be very thoroughly done, but 
not dry. If the cutlets be thick, keep 
the pan covered for a few minutes at a 
good distance from the fire, after they 
have acquired a good color. By this 
means the meat will be done through. 
Lay the cutlets in a dish, keep them 
hot, and make a gravy in the pan as 
follows : Dredge in a little flour, add a- 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
brown it, then pour as much boiling 
water as is required over it, season with 
pepper and salt, add a little lemon- 
juice, give one boil, and pour it over 
the cutlets. They should be garnished 
with slices of broiled bacon, and a few 
forcemeat balls will be found a very 
excellent addition to this dish. 

Time, for cutlets of a moderate 
thickness, about twelve minutes; if 
very thick, allow more time. Sufficient 
for six persons. Seasonable from March 
to October. 

Note. — Veal cutlets may be merely floured and 
fried of a nice brown ; tbe gravy and garnisiiing 
should be the same as in the preceding recipe. 
They may also be cut from the loin or neck. 

Veal and Ham Pie. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 2 pounds of veal cutlets, ^ a 
pound of boiled ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
minced savory herbs, i teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, 
pepper and salt to taste, a strip of lemon- 
peel finely minced, the yolks of 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, ^ pint of water, nearly ^ 
pint of good strong gravy, puff crust. 

Mode. — Cut the veal into nice square 



184 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



pieces, and put a layer of them at 
the bottom of a pie - dish ; sprinkle 
over these a portion of the herbs, 
spices, seasoning, lemon-peel, and the 
yolks of the eggs cut in slices. Cut 
the ham very thin, and put a layer 
of this in. Proceed in this manner 
until the dish is full, so arranging it 
that the ham comes at the top. Lay 
a puff-paste on the edge of the dish, 
and pour in about a half pint of water. 
Cover with crust, ornament it with 
leaves, brush it over with the yolk of 
an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven 
for one to one and a half hours, or 
longer should the pie be very large. 
When it is taken out of the oven, pour 
in at the top, through a funnel, nearly 
half a pint of strong gravy. This 
should be made sufficiently good that, 
when cold, it may cut in a firm jelly. 
This pie may be very much enriched 
by adding a few mushrooms, oysters, 
or sweetbreads ; but it will be found 
very good without any of the last- 
named additions. 

Time, one and a half hours, or longer 
should the pie be very large. Sufficient 
for five or six persons. Seasonable from 
March to October. 

Stewed Knuckle of Veal and 
Rice. — Ingredients. — Knuckle of 
veal, 1 onion, 2 blades of mace, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, J pound of rice. 

Mode. — Choose a small knuckle, or 
cut some cutlets from it, that it may 
be just large enough to be eaten the 
same day it is dressed, as cold boiled 
veal is not a particularly tempting dish. 
Break the shank-bone, wash it clean, 
and put the meat into a stewpan with 
sufficient water to cover it. Let it 
gradually come to a boil, put in the 
salt, and remove the scum as fast as 
it rises. When it luis simmered gently 
for about three-quarters of an hour, 
add the remaining ingredients, and 
stew the whole gently for two and a 
quarter hours. Put the meat into a 
deep dish, pour over it the rice, etc., 
and send boiled bacon and a tureen of 
parsley and butter to table with it. 

Time. — A knuckle of veal weighing 
itix pounds, three hours' gentle stewing. 



Sufficievd for five or six persons. Sea- 
sonable from March to October. 

Note. — Macaroni, instead of rice, boiled with 
the veitl, will be found good ; or the rice and mau< 
aroni may be omitted, and the Teal sent to table 
smothered in parsley and butter. 

Calf s Liver and Bacon.— Ingredi- 
ents. — 1 or 3 pounds of liver, bacon, 
pepper and salt to taste, a small piece of 
butter, flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of kmon 
juice, \ pint of water. 

Mode. — Divide the liver into thin 
slices, and cut nearly as many slices 
of bacon as there are of liver. Fry the 
bacon first, and put that on a hot 
dish before the fire ; fry the liver 
in the fat which comes from the 
bacon, after seasoning it with pepper 
and salt, and dredging over it a very 
little flour. Turn the liver occasion- 
ally to prevent its burning, and when 
done, lay it round the dish with a 
piece of bacon between each. Pour 
away the bacon fat, put in a small 
piece of butter, dredge in a little flour, 
add the lemon-juice and water, give 
one boil, and pour it in the middle .>f 
the dish. It may be garnished with 
slices of cut lemon or forcemeat balls. 

Time, according to the thickness of 
the slices, from five to ten minutes. 
Sufficient for six or seven persons. 
Seasonable from March to October. 

Calf's Head Boiled. — Time, to 
soak, one hour and a half; to simmer, 
one hour and a half. 

Ingredients. — ^ a calf's head, J 
j)int of melted butter, with parsley, 1 
lemon, a pinch of pepper and salt. 

Soak the half calf's head in cold 
water for an hour and a half, then for 
ten minutes in hot water before it is 
dressed. Put it into a saucepan with 
plenty of cold water (enough for the 
head to swim), and let it boil gently. 
When the scum rises, skim it vert/ 
carefully. After the head boils, let it 
simmer gently an hour and a half. 
Serve it with melted butter and pars- 
ley over it, and garnish with slices of 
lemon and tiny heaps of fried parsley. 
Ham should be served with calf'a 
head, or slices of bacon. 

Stewed Breast of Veal and Peas. 



VEAL. 



185 



— Ingredients. — Breast of veal, 2 
ounces of butter, a bunch of savory herbs, 
including parsley, 2 blades of pounded 
mace, 2 cloves, 5 or 6 young onions, 1 
strip of lemon-peel, 6 allspice, \ tea- 
spoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, thickening of butter and flour, 2 
tablespoonfuls of sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of tomato sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- 
juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroo7n 
ketchup, green peas. 

Mode. — Cut the breast in half, after 
removing the bone underneath, and 
divide the meat into convenient-sized 
pieces. Put the butter into a frying- 
pan, lay in the pieces of veal, and fry 
until of a nice brown color. Now 
place these in a stewpan with the 
nerba, mace, cloves, onions, lemon- 
peel, allspice, and seasoning. Pour 
over them just suflBcient boiling water 
to cover the meat. Well close the lid, 
and let the whole simmer very gently 
for about two hours. Strain off as 
much gravy as is required, thicken it 
with butter and flour, add the remain- 
ing ingredients, skim well, let it sim- 
mer for about ten minutes, then pour 
it over the meat. Have ready some 
green peas, boiled separately ; sprinkle 
these over the veal and serve. It may 
be garnished with forcemeat balls, or 
rashers of bacon curled and fried. 
Instead of cutting up the meat, many 
persons prefer it dressed whole. In 
that case it should be half roasted be- 
fore the water, etc., are put to it. 

Time, two and a quarter hours. Suf- 
ficient for five or six persons. 

Minced Veal. — Ingredients. — 
The remains of cold roast fillet or loin of 
veal, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 
onion, \ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 
salt and white pepper to taste, 1 blade of 
pounded mace, 2 or 8 young carrots, a 
faggot of sweet herbs, thickening of butter 
and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 
3 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. 

Mode. — Take about one pound of veal, 
and should there be any bones, dredge 
them with flour, and put them into a 
stewpan with the brown outside, and a 
few meat trimmings ; add rather more 
than a pint of water, the onion cut in 



slices, lemon-peel, seasoning, mace, 
carrots, and herbs ; simmer these well 
for rather more th an one hour, and strain 
the liquor. Eub a little flour into some 
butter ; add this to the gravy, set it on 
the fire, and, when it boils, skim well. 
Mince the veal finely by cutting, and not 
chopping it ; put it in the gravy ; let 
it get warmed through gradually ; add 
the lemon-juice and cream, and, when 
it is on the point of boiling, serve. 
Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted 
bread and slices of bacon rolled and 
toasted. Forcemeat balls may also be 
added. If more lemon-peel is liked 
than is stated above, put a little very 
finely minced to the veal, after it is 
warmed in the gravy. 

Time, one hour to make the gravy. 
Seasonable from March to October. 

Ragout of Cold Veal. — Either a 
neck, loin, or fillet of veal will furnish 
this excellent ragout with a very little 
expense or trouble. Cut the veal into 
handsome cutlets ; put a piece of but- 
ter, or clean dripping, into a frying- 
pan ; as soon as it is hot, flour and fry 
the veal of a light brown ; take it out, 
and if you have no gravy ready, put a 
pint of boiling water into the frying- 
pan, give it a boil-up for a minute, and 
strain it in a basin while you make some 
thickening in the following manner : — 
Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan; 
as soon as it melts, mix as much flour 
as will dry it up ; stir it over the fire for 
a few minutes, and gradually add the 
gravy you made in the frying-pan ; let 
them simmer together for ten min- 
utes ; season with pepper, salt, a little 
mace, and a wineglassful of mushroom 
ketchup or wine ; strain it through a 
panis to the meat, and stew very gently 
till the meat is thoroughly warmed. 
If you have any ready-boiled bacon, 
cut it in slices, and put it to warm with 
the meat. 

Veal Pie. — Take some of the mid- 
dle or scrag of a small neck ; seaso* it 
with pepper and salt, and put to it a 
few i^ieces of lean bacon or ham. If it 
be wanted of a high relish, add mace, 
Cayenne, and nutmeg to the salt and 
pepper, and also forcemeat and egg 



186 



YOU ask! — I'l.L tell! 



balls, and if you choose add truflBes, 
morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut 
into small bits, and cocks' combs 
blanched, if liked Have a rich gravy 
to pour in after baking. It will be 
very good without any of the latter 
adilitions. 

Roast Turkey. — Choosing and 
Trussing. — Choose cock turkeys by 
their short spurs and black legs, in 
which case they are young; if the 
spurs are long, and the legs pale and 
rough, they are old. If the bird has 
been long killed, the eyes will appear 
sunk, and the feet very dry ; but if 
fresh, the contrary will be the case. 
Middling-sized fleshy turkeys are by 
many persons considered superior to 
those of an immense growth, as they 
are, generally speaking, much more 
tender. They should never be dressed 
the same day they are killed, but, in 
cold weather, should hang at least 
eight days; if the weather is mild, 
four or five days will be found suflB- 
cient. Carefully pluck the bird, singe 
it with white paper, and wipe it thor- 
oughly with a cloth ; draw it, preserve 
the liver and gizzard, and be particular 
not to break the gall-bag, as no wash- 
ing will remove the bitter taste it im- 
parts where it once touches. Wash it 
inside well, and wipe it thoroughly 
dry with a cloth ; the outside merely 
requires nicely wiping, as we have just 
stated. Cut off the neck close to the 
back, but leave euough of the crop- 
skin to turn over ; break the leg-bone 
close below the knee, draw out the 
strings from the thighs, and flatten 
the breast-bone to make it look plump. 
Have ready a forcemeat ; fill the breast 
with this, and, if a trussing-needle is 
used, sew the neck over to the back ; 
if a needle is not at hand, a skewer 
will answer the purpose. Run a 
skewer through the pinion and thigh 
into the body to the pinion and thigh 
on the other side, and press the legs as 
raucli as possible between the breast 
and the side bones, and put the liver 
under one pinion, and the gizzard 
under the other. Pass a string across 
the back of the bird, catch it over the 



points of the skewer, tie it in the 
centre of the back, and be particular 
that the turkey is very firmly trussed. 
This may be more easily accomplished 
with a needle and twine than with 
skewers. 

Mode. — Fasten a sheet of buttered 
paper on to the breast of the bird, put 
it down to a bright fire, at some little 
distance at first (afterwards draw it 
nearer), and keep it well basted the 
whole of the time it is cooking. 
About a quarter of an hour before 
serving, remove the paper, dredge the 
turkey lightly with flour, and put a 
piece of butter into the basting-ladle ; 
as the butter melts, baste the bird 
with it. When of a nice brown, and 
well frothed, serve with a tureen of 
good brown gravy and one of bread 
sauce. Fried sausages are a favorite 
addition to roast turkey ; they make a 
pretty garnish, besides adding very 
much to the flavor. When these are 
not at hand, a few forcemeat balls 
should be placed round the dish as a 
garnish. Turkey may also be stuffed 
with sausage meat, and a chestnut 
forcemeat with the same sauce is, by 
many persons, much esteemed as an 
accompaniment to this favorite dish. 

Time, small turkey, one and a half 
hours; moderate-sized one, about ten 
pounds, two hours ; large turkey, two 
and a half hours or longer. Sufficient, 
a moderate-sized turkey, for seven or 
eight persons. Seasonable from Decem- 
ber to February. 

Boiled Turkey. — A turkey for 
boiling should be prepared in the 
same manner as for roasting. Tie i( 
up in a cloth in order to have it look 
white, unless rice is boiled with it. It 
will require about two-thirds of a cup 
of rice, if a soup is to be made of the 
water in which it is boiled. A pound 
of salt pork boiled with the turkey 
improves the flavor of it. Use drawn 
butter for a sauce, without you have 
oyster sauce. If a soup is to be made 
of the liquor, it should remain till the 
next day to have the fat skimmed off, 
unless liked very rich. 

Hashed Turkey.— Ingredients.— 



POULTRY. 



187 



The remains of cold roast iurhey, 1 
onion, pepper and salt to taste, rather 
more than 1 pint of water, 1 carrot, 1 
turnip, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of 
savory herbs, 1 tablespoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port 
vfine, thickening of butter and flour. 

Mode. — Cut the turkey into neat 
joints ; the best pieces reserve for the 
hash, the inferior joints and trim- 
mings put into a stewpan with an 
onion cut in slices, pepper and salt, a 
carrot, turnip, mace, herbs, and water 
in the above proportion ; simmer these 
for an hour, then strain the gravy, 
thicken it with butter and flour, flavor 
with ketchup and port wine, and lay 
in the pieces of turkey to warm 
through. If there is any stufiing left, 
put that in also, as it so much im- 
proves the flavor of the gravy. When 
it boils, serve and garnish the dish 
with sippets of toasted bread. 

Time, one hour to make the gravy. 
Seasonable from December to February. 

To Broil the Legs of a Turkey. — 
Time, a quarter of an hour. 

Ingredients. — The legs of a turkey, 
a little pepper, salt, Cayenne, and a 
squeeze of a lemon. 

Take the legs from a cold roast 
turkey, make some incisions across 
them with a sharp knife, and season 
them with a little pepper, salt, and a 
pinch of Cayenne. Squeeze over them 
a little lemon-juice, and place them on 
a gridiron well buttered, over a clear 
fire. When done a nice brown, put 
them on a hot dish, with a piece of 
butter on the top of each, and serve 
them up very hot. 

Roast Goose. — When a goose is 
well picked, singed, and cleaned, make 
the stuffing, with about two ounces of 
onion (if you think the flavor of raw 
onions too strong, cut them in slices, 
and lay them in cold water for a couple 
of hours, add as much apple or potato 
as you have of onion), and half as 
much green sage, chop them very fine, 
adding four ounces, i. e., about a large 
breakfast cupful, of stale bread-crumbs, 
a bit of butter about as big as a wal- 
nut, and a very little pepper and salt 



(to this some cooks add half the liver, 
parboiling it first), the yolk of an egg 
or two, and incorporating the whole 
well together, stuff the goose ; do not 
quite fill it, but leave a little room for 
the stuffing to swell. Spit it, tie it on 
the spit at both ends, to prevent it 
swinging round, and to prevent the 
stuffing from coming out. From an 
hour and a half to an hour and three- 
quarters will roast a fine full-grown 
goose. Send up gravy and apple-sauce 
with it. 

Hashed Goose. — Ingeedients. - 
The remains of cold roast goose, 2 onions, 
2 ounces of butter, 1 pint of boiling water, 

1 dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and 
salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of port wine, 

2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. 
Mode. — Cut up the goose into pieces 

of the size required ; the inferior joints, 
trimmings, etc., put into a stewpan to 
make the gravy; slice and fry the 
onions in the butter of a very pale 
brown; add these to the trimmings, 
and pour over about a pint of boiling 
water; stew these gently for three- 
quarters of an hour, then skim and 
strain the liquor. Thicken it with 
flour, and flavor with port wine and 
ketchup in the above proportion ; add 
a seasoning of pepper and salt, and 
put in the pieces of goose ; let these 
get thoroughly hot through, but do 
not allow them to boil, and serve with 
sippets of toasted bread. 

Time, altogether, rather more than 
one hour. Seasonable, from September 
to March. 

Roast Fowls. — Fowls to be tender 
should be killed a couple of days be- 
fore they are dressed ; when the feathers 
come out easily, then let them be pick- 
ed and cooked. In drawing them, be 
careful not to break the gall-bag, as, 
wherever it touches, it would impart a 
very bitter taste ; the liver and gizzard 
should also be preserved. Truss them 
in the following manner : — After 
having carefully picked them, cut off 
the head, and skewer the skin of the 
neck down over the back. Cut off the 
claws ; dip the legs in boiling water, 
and scrape them; turn the pinions 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



undei ; run a skewer through them 
and the middle of the legs, which 
should be passed through the body to 
the pinion and leg on the other side, 
one skewer securing the limbs on both 
sides. The liver and gizzard should 
be placed in the wings, the liver on 
one side and the gizzard on the other. 
Tie the legs together by passing a 
trussing-needle, threaded with twine, 
through the backbone, and secure it 
on the other side. If trussed like a 
capon, the legs are placed more apart. 
When firmly trussed, singe them all 
over ; put them down to a bright clear 
fire, paper the breasts with a sheet of 
buttered paper, and keep the fowls 
well basted. Roast them for three- 
quarters of an hour, more or less, ac- 
cording to the size, and ten minutes 
before serving, remove the paper, 
dredge the fowls with a little fine 
flour, put a piece of butter into the 
basting-ladle, and as it melts, baste 
the fowls with it; when nicely frothed 
and of a rich color, serve with good 
brown gravy, a little of which should 
be poured over the fowls, and a tureen 
of well-made bread sauce. Mush- 
room, oyster, or egg sauce are very 
suitable accompaniments to roast 
fowl. Chicken is roasted in the same 
manner. 

Time. — A very large fowl, quite one 
hour; medium-sized one, three-quarters 
of an hour; chicken, half an hour, or 
rather longer. Seasonable all the year, 
but scarce in early spring. 

Boiled Fowls or Chickens. — Time, 
one hour for a large fowl ; three-quar- 
ters of an hour for a medium size; 
half an hour for a chicken. 

After the fowls or chickens are 
trussed for boiling, fold them in a nice 
white floured cloth and put them into 
a stewpan ; cover them well with hot 
water, bring it gradually to a boil, 
and skim it very carefully as the scum 
rises, then let them simmer as slowly as 
possible, which will improve their ap- 
pearance more than fast boiling, caus- 
ing them to be whiter and plumper. 
When done, put them on a hot dish, 
remove the skewers, and pour over 



them a little parsley and butter, oyster, 
lemon, celery, or white sauce, serving 
the sauce also separately m a tureen. 
Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon is usually 
served to eat with them. 

Grilled Fowl. — Take the remains of 
cold fowls, and skin them or not, at 
choice ; pepper and salt them, and 
sprinkle over them a little lemon-juice, 
and let them stand an hour ; wipe them 
dry, dip them into clarified butter, and 
then into fine bread-crumbs, and broil 
gently over a clear fire. A little finely 
minced lean of ham or grated lemon- 
peel, with a seasoning of Cayenne, salt 
and mace, mixed with the crumbs, will 
vary this dish agreeably. When fried 
instead of broiled, the fowls may be 
dipped into yolk of egg instead of 
butter. 

Fricasseed Fowl (Cold Ponltry 
Cookery). — Ingredients. — The re- 
mains of cold roast fowl, 1 strip o/lemon- 
])eel, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 bunch 
of savory herbs, 1 onion, pepper and salt 
to taste, 1 pint of water, ] ieaspoonful 
of flour, ^ pint of cream, the yolks of 2 
eggs. 

Mode. — Carve the fowls into nice 
joints; make gravy of the trimmings 
and legs, by stewing them with the 
lemon-peel, mace, herbs, onion, sea- 
soning, and water, until reduced to 
half a pint ; then strain, and put in 
the fowl. Warm it through, and 
thicken with a teaspoonful of flour ; 
stir the yolks of the eggs into the 
cream ; add these to the sauce ; let it 
get thoroughly hot, but do not allow 
it to boil, or it will curdle. 

Time, one hour to make the gravy, 
quarter of an hour to warm the fowl. 
Seasonable at any time. 

Ragout of Fowl. — Ingredients, 
— The remains of cold roast fowl, 3 shal- 
lots, 2 blades of mace, a faggot of sa- 
vory herbs, 2 or 3 slices of lean ham, 1 
pint of stock or water, pepper and salt 
to taste, 1 onion, 1 dessertspoonful of 
flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-Juice, J 
teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 ounce of 
butter. 

Mode. — Cut the fowls up into neat 
pieces, the same as for a fricassee ; 



POULTRY. 



189 



put the trimmings into a stewpan with 
the shallots, mace, herbs, ham, onion, 
and stock (water may be substituted 
for this). Boil it slowly for one hour, 
strain the liquor, and put a small piece 
of butter into a stewpan ; when melted, 
dredge in sufficient flour to dry up the 
butter, and stir it over the fire. Put 
in the strained liquor, boil for a few 
minutes, and strain it again over the 
pieces of fowl. Squeeze in the lemon- 
juice, add the sugar and a seasoning of 
pepper and salt, make it hot, but do 
not allow it to boil ; lay the fowl 
neatly on the dish, and garnish with 
crofltons. 

Time, altogether, one hour and a 
half. Seasonable at any time. 

Chicken Pie. — Time, to bake, one 
hour and a quarter. 

Ingredients. — Two small ehickeiis, 
tomie forcemeat, a sweetbread, a few fresh 
mushrooms, a cupful of good gravy, a 
little flour and butter, 4 eggs, some puff 
paste. 

Cover the bottom of a pie- dish with 
a pufF paste, upon that round the side 
lay a thin layer of forcemeat ; cut two 
small chickens into pieces, season them 
highly with pepper and salt ; put some 
of the pieces into the dish, then some 
sweetbread cut into pieces and well 
seasoned, a few fresh mushrooms, and 
the yolks of four or five hard-boiled 
eggs cut into four pieces, and strewed 
over the tops. Put in a little water, 
and cover the pie with a piece of puff 
paste, glaze it, ornament the edge, and 
bake it. When done, pour in through 
the hole in the top a cupful of good 
gravy, thickened with a little flour and 
butter. 

Chicken and Veal Pot-pie. — Boil 
the meat until about half done. 
Chickens should be jointed before 
boiling, and veal cut into small pieces 
after it is boiled. Put it into a pot 
with a layer of crust to each layer of 
meat, having a layer of crust on top, 
A few slices of salt pork improves it. 
The meat should be well seasoned with 
Bait and pepper before putting it in 
tlie pot. Cover the whole with the 



liquor in which the meat was stewed ; 
it should be hot when added, and keep 
a teakettle of boiling water, to turn in 
as the water boils away. Cold water 
will make the crust heavy. Let the 
whole stew just long enough to have 
the crust cooked ; if overcooked, it 
will be clammy. The crust may be 
made like that for fruit pies, with less 
shortening, or like that for cream of 
tartar biscuit, but a raised pie-crust is 
the lightest and best. If you have 
unbaked wheat dough, add to it a 
little melted butter, and use it for the 
pie, if not, prepare the crust as fol- 
lows : Mix together three pints of 
flour, half a teacup of melted butter, 
a teaspoon ful of salt, a third of a tea- 
cup of yeast, and lukewarm milk or 
water just sufficient to enable you to 
roll it out. Set it in a warm place to 
rise, which will take five or six hours, 
unless brewers' or distillery yeast is 
used. The butter may be omitted, and 
seven or eight potatoes, boiled soft and 
mashed fine, substituted. When quite 
light, so as to be of a spongy appear- 
ance, roll it out half an inch thick, cut 
into small cakes, let them remain a few 
minutes, then put them with the meat. 
Curried Fowl. — Ingredients. —1 
fowl, 2 ounces of butter, 3 onions sliced, 
1 pint of white veal gravy, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of curry-powder, 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, 1 apple, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 
1 tablespoonful of lemon-Juice. 

Mode. — Put the butter into a stew- 
pan, with the onions sliced, the fowl 
cut into small joints, and the apple 
peeled, cored, and minced. Fry to a 
pale brown, add the stock, and stew 
gently for twenty minutes ; rub down 
the curry powder and flour with a 
little of the gravy, quite smoothly, and 
stir this to the other ingredients ; sim- 
mer for rather more than half an hour, 
and just before serving, add the above 
proportion of hot cream and lemon- 
juice. Serve with boiled rice, which 
may either be heaped lightly on a dish 
by itself, or put round the curry as a 
border. 

Tim^, fifty minutes. Sufficient foi 



190 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



three or four persons. Seasonable in the 
winter. 

Note. — This curry may be made of cold chicken, 
but undreased meat will be found far superior. 

Roast Ducks. — Choosing and Truss- 
ing. — Choose plump ducks, with thick 
and yellowish feet. They should be 
trussed with the feet on, which should 
be scalded, and the skin peeled off, 
and then turned up close to the legs. 
Run a skewer through the middle of 
each leg, after having drawn them as 
close as possible to the body, to plump 
up the breast, passing the same quite 
through the body. Cut oflF the heads 
and necks, and the pinions at the first 
joint; bring these close to the sides, 
twist the feet round, and truss them 
at the back of the bird. After the duck 
is stuffed, both ends should be secured 
with strings, so as to keep in the sea- 
soning. 

Mode. — To insure ducks being ten- 
der, never dress them the same day 
they are killed; and if the weather 
permits, let them hang a day or two. 
Make a stuffing of sage or onion suffi- 
cient for one duck, and leave the other 
unseasoned, as the flavor is not liked 
by everybody. Put them down to a 
brisk clear fire, and keep them well 
basted the whole of the time they are 
cooking. A few minutes before serv- 
ing, dredge them lightly with flour, to 
make them froth and look plump, and 
when the steam draws towards the fire, 
send them to table hot and quickly, 
with a good brown gravy poured rowttrf, 
but not over the ducks, and a little of 
the same in a tureen. When in sea- 
son, green peas should invariably ac- 
company this dish. 

Time, full-grown ducks from three- 
quarters of an hour to one hour ; duck- 
lings, from twenty-five to thirty-five 
minutes. Sufficient, a couple of ducks 
for six or seven persons. Seasonable, 
ducklings from April to August; ducks 
from November to February. 

NoU. — Ducklings are trussed and roasted in the 
same manner, and served with the same sauces 
and accompaniments. When in seaaon, apple 
sanae must not be omitted. 



Stewed Duck and Peas (Cold 
Poultry Cookery).— Ingredients.— 
The remains of cold roast duck, 2 ounces 
of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or 
bacon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 pints 
of thin gravy, 1 large onion, or a 
small bunch of green onions, 3 sprigs 
of parsley, 3 cloves, 1 pint of young 
green peas, Cayenne and salt to taste, 1 
teaspoonful of pounded sugar. 

Mode. — Put the butter into a stew- 
pan; cut up the duck into joints; 
lay them in with the slices of lean 
ham or bacon ; make it brown, then 
dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and 
stir this well in before adding the gravy. 
Put in the onion, parsley, cloves, and 
gravy, and when it has simmered for a 
quarter of an hour, add a pint of young 
green peas, and stew gently for about 
half an hour. Season with Cayenne, 
salt, and sugar; take out the duck, 
place it round the dish, and the jeaa 
in the middle. To insure the peax: be- 
ing of a good color, they should be 
boiled separately. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. 
Seasonable from June to August. 

Hashed Duck (Cold Poultry Cook- 
ery). — Ingredients. — The remains 
of cold roast duck, rather more than 1 
pint of weak stock or water, 1 onion, 1 
ounce of butter, thickening of butter and 
flour, salt and Cayenne to taste, J tea- 
spoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, J glass of port 
wine. 

Mode. — Cut the duck into nice 
joints, and put the trimmings into a 
stewpan ; slice and fry the onion in a 
little butter; add the'se to the trim- 
mings, pour in the above proportion 
of weak stock or water, and stew gen- 
tly for one hour. Strain the liquor, 
thicken it with butter and flour, season 
with salt and Cayenne, and add the re- 
maining ingredients; boil it up and 
skim well ; lay in the pieces of duck, 
and let them get thoroughly hot 
through by the side of the fire, but do 
not allow them to boil : they should 
soak in the gravy for about half an 
hour. Garnish with sippets of toasted 
bread. The hash may be made richer 



PIGEONS. 



191 



by using a stronger and more highly- 
flavored gravy ; a little spice or 
pounded mace may also be added, 
when their flavor is liked. 

Time, one hour and a half. Season- 
able from November to February; 
ducklings, from May to August. 

To Stew Giblets. — Time, one hour 
and a half. 

Ingredients. — Ore set of giblets, 
a bunch of parsley an,i thyme, a few 
sage leaves, pepper and salt, 1 onion, 
a quart of gravy, a wineglass of white 
wine. 

Mode. — Thoroughly clean and wash 
the giblets, cut them into pieces, and 
stew them for an hour and a half in 
a quart of gravy, adding a bunch of 
thyme and parsley, an onion, a few 
eage leaves, and a seasoning of pepper 
and salt. When done, put them into 
water, and trim them ready for serv- 
ing. Strain the gravy through a fine 
hair sieve, add a glass of white wine 
and a piece of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, rolled in flour. Boil the giblets 
up in the gravy, and serve them 
quickly. 

Giblet Pie. — Ingredients. — A 
set of duck or goose giblets, 1 pound of 
rump-steak, 1 onion, J teaspoonful of 
whole black pepper, a bunch of savory 
herbs, plain crust. 

Mode. — Clean, and put the giblets 
into a stewpan with an onion, whole 
pepper, and a bunch of savory herbs. 
Add rather more than a pint of water, 
and simmer gently for about one hour 
and a half. Take them out, let them 
cool, and cut them into pieces. Line 
the bottom of a pie-dish with a few 
pieces of rump-steak. Add a layer of 
giblets, and a few more pieces of steak. 
Se^on with pepper and salt, and pour 
in the gravy (which should be 
strained) that the giblets v^ere stewed 
in. Cover with a plain crust, and 
bake for rather more than one and a 
half hours in a brisk oven. Cover a 
piece of paper over the pie, to prevent 
the crust taking too much color. 

Time, one hour and a half to stew 
the giblets, about one hour to bake 
the pie. Sufficient for five or six persons. 



To Roast Pigeons. — Tiim, twenty 

minutes to half an hour. 

Ingredients. — Some pigeons, J 
pound of butter, pepper and salt. 

Mode. — Well wash and thoroughly 
clean the pigeons. Wipe them dry, 
season them inside with pepper and 
salt, and put a good-sized piece of 
buttfr into the body of each bird. 
Roast them before a clear bright fire, 
basting them well the whole of the 
time. Serve them with gravy and 
bread sauce. Or send up a tureen 
of parsley and butter, in which case 
the birds must be garnished with fried 
parsley ; but for very plain cooking, 
they can have a little water added to 
the butter in the dripping-pan, and 
poured round them, adding a spoonful 
or two of gravy. 

Jugged Pigeons. — Time, three 
hours. 

Ingredients. — Some pigeons, 2 
hard-boiled eggs, a sprig of parsley, the 
peel of ^ a lemon, the weight of the 
livers in beef suet, the same of bread- 
o'umbs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, 1 
W9} H ounces of butter, 1 head of celery, 
a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, 4 cloves. 

Mode. — Pick and draw four or six 
pigeons, wipe them very dry, boil the 
livers a minute or two, then mince 
them fine, and bruise them with a 
spoon, or beat them in a mortar. Mix 
them with the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs, a sprig of parsley, and the 
peel of half a lemon, all shred fine, the 
weight of the livers in beef suet 
chopped as fine as possible, the same 
weight of bread crumbs, and a little 
pepi^er, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix 
it well together with a well-beaten 
egg, and a little fresh butter. Stufl" 
the pigeons and the crops with this 
forcemeat, sew up the vents, and dip 
the pigeons into warm water. Dredge 
over them some pepper and salt, and 
put them into a jar with the celery, 
sweet herbs, cloves, and beaten mace, 
with a glass of white wine. Caver the 
jar closely, and set it in a stewpan of 
boiling water for three hours, taking 
care the water does not get to the top 



192 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



C/f the jar. When done, strain the 
gravy into a stewpan, stir in a little 
butter rolled in flour, boil it up till it 
is thick, and pour it over the pigeons. 
Garnish with lemon. 

Roast Grouse. — Let the birds hang as 
long as possible ; pluck and draw them ; 
wipe, but do not wash them, inside and 
out, and truss them without the head, 
the same as for a roast fowl. Many 
persons still continue to truss them 
with the head under the wing, but the 
former is now considered tlie most 
approved method. Put them down to 
a sharp, clear fire; keep them well 
basted the whole time they are cooking, 
and serve them on a buttered toast, 
soaked in the dripping-pan, with a 
little melted butter poured over them, 
or with bread sauce and gravy. 

Tbne, half hour; if liked very 
thoroughly done, thirty-five minutes. 
Sufficient, two for a dish. Seasonable 
from the 12th of August to the be- 
ginning of December. 

Roast Partridge. — Choosing and 
Trussing. — Choose young birds with 
dark-colored bills and yellowish legs, 
and let them hang a few days, or there 
will be no flavor to the flesh, nor will 
it be tender. The time they should be 
kept entirely depends on the taste of 
those for whom they are intended, as 
what some persons would consider de- 
licious would be to others disgusting 
and offensive. They may be trussed 
with or without the head, the latter 
mode being now considered the most 
fashionable. Pluck, draw, and wipe 
the partridge carefully, inside and out; 
cut oft' the head, leaving sufficient skin 
on the neck to skewer back ; bring the 
legs close to the breast, between it and 
the side-bones, and pass a skewer 
through the pinions and the thick part 
of the thighs. When the head is left 
on, it should be brought round and 
fixed on to the point of the skewer. 

Mode. — When the bird is firmly and 
plumply trussed, roast it before a nice 
bright fire ; keep it well basted, and a 
few minutes before serving, flour and 
froth it well. Dish it, and serve with 
gravy and bread sauce, and send to 



table hot and quickly. A little of the 
gravy should be poured over the 
bird. 

Ti7ne, twenty-five to thirty-five 
minutes. Sufficient, two for a dish. 
Seasonable from the 1st of September 
to the beginning of February. 

Roast Wild Duck.— Carefully pluck 
and draw them ; cut off the heads close 
to the necks, leaving sufficient skin to 
turn over, and do not cut off the feet; 
some twist each leg at the knuckle, and 
rest the claws on each side of the 
breast. Roast the birds before a quick 
fire, and, when they are first put down^ 
let them remain for five minutes with- 
out basting (this will keep the gravy 
in) ; afterwards baste plentifully with 
butter, and a few minutes before serv- 
ing dredge them lightly with flour; 
baste well, and send them to table 
nicely frothed, and full of gravy. If 
overdone, the birds will lose their 
flavor. Serve with a good gravy in 
the dish, and send to table with them 
a cut lemon. To take off the fishy 
taste which wild fowl sometimes have, 
baste them for a few minutes with hot 
water, to which have been added aa 
onion and a little salt ; then take away 
the pan, and baste with butter. 

Time, when liked underdressed, 
twenty to twenty-five minutes; well 
done, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. 
Sufficient, two for a dish. Seasonable 
from November to February. 

Roast Pheasant, or Guinea Fowl. 
— Choosing and IVussing. — Old pheas- 
ants may be known by the length and 
sharpness of their spurs ; in young ones 
they are short and blunt. The cock 
bird is generally reckoned the best, ex 
cept when the hen is with egg. They 
should hang some time before they are 
dressed, as, if they are cooked fresh, 
the flesh will be exceedingly dry and 
tasteless. After the bird is plucked 
and drawn, wipe the inside with & 
damp cloth, and truss it in the same 
manner as partridge. If the head ia 
left on, bring it round under the 
wing, and fix it on to the point of the 
skewer. 

Mode. — Roast it before a brisk fire. 



RABBITS. 



193' 



keep it well basted, and flour and froth 
it nicely. Serve with brown gravy (a 
little of which should be poured round 
the bird), and a tureen of bread sauce. 
Two or three of the pheasant's best 
tail-feathers are sometimes stuck in 
the tail as an ornament, and these give 
a very handsome appearance to the 
dish. 

Time, half to one hour, according to 
size. Sufficient, one for a dish. Sea- 
sonable from the 1st of October to the 
beginning of February. 

Roast Woodcock. — Woodcocks 
should not be drawn, as the trails are, 
by epicures, considered a great delicacy. 
Pluck, and wipe them well outside ; 
truss them with the legs close to the 
body, and the feet pressing upon the 
thighs ; skin the neck and head, and 
bring the beak round under the wing. 
Place some slices of toast in the drip- 
ping-pan to catch the trails, allowing 
a piece of toast for each bird. Roast 
before a clear fire from fifteen to twenty- 
five minutes ; keep them well basted, 
and flour and froth them nicely. 
When done, dish the pieces of toast 
with the birds upon them^ pour round 
a very little gravy, and send some more 
to table in a tureen. These are most 
delicious birds when well cooked, but 
they should not be kept too long : when 
the feathers drop, or easily come out, 
they are fit for table. 

Time. — When liked underdone, 
fifteen to twenty minutes ; if liked well 
done, allow an extra five minutes. 
Sufficient, two for a dish. Seasonable 
from November to February. 

Roast Rabbit. — Time, three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

Ingredients. — 1 large rabbit, pep- 
per, salt, nutmeg, J a pound of but- 
ter, 4 dessertspoonfuls of milk, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, 
brown gravy, the peel of ^ a lemon 
grated. 

Procure a fine large rabbit, and truss 
it in the same manner as a hare ; fill 
the paunch with veal stuffing, and 
roast it before a bright clear fire for 
three-quarters of an hour, if a large 
one, basting it well with butter. Before 

13 



serving mix a spoonful of flour with' 
four of milk ; stir into it the yolks of 
two well-beaten eggs, and season with; 
a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and' 
salt; baste the rabbit thickly with this,- 
to form a light coating over it. Wherr 
dry, baste it with butter, to froth it up; 
and when done, place it carefnlly in a 
dish, and pour round it some brown 
gravy, boiled up with the liver minced, 
and a little grated nutmeg. Serve with 
gravy in a tureen, and red jelly. A 
rabbit can be baked instead of roasted, 
and will require the same time in a 
good oven. 

Boiled Rabbit. — Time, a very small 
rabbit, half an hour; medium size, 
three-quarters of an hour ; a large 
rabbit, one hour. 

When the rabbit is trussed for boil- 
ing, put it into a stewpan, and cover 
it with hot water, and let it boil very 
gently until tender. When done, 
place it on a dish, and smother it with 
onions, or with parsley and butter, or 
liver sauce, should the flavor of onion 
not be liked. If liver sauce is to be 
served, the liver must be boiled for ten 
minutes, minced very fine, and added 
to the butter sauce. An old rabbit 
will require quite an hour to boil it 
thoroughly. 

To Truss Boiled Rabbits. — After 
well cleaning and skinning a rabbit, 
wash it in cold water, and then put it 
into warm water for about twenty 
minutes, to soak out the blood. Draw 
the head round to the side, and secure 
it with a thin skewer run through that 
and the body. 

To Blanch Rabbits, Fowls, etc. — 
To blanch or whiten a rabbit or fowl 
it must be placed on the fire in a small 
quantity of water, and let boil. As 
soon as it boils it must be taken out, 
and plunged into cold water for a few 
minutes. 

To Fricassee Rabbits Brown. — 
Time, three-quarters of an hour. 

Mode. — Take two young rabbits, cut 
them in small pieces, slit the head in 
two, season them with pepper and salt, 
dredge them with flour, and fry them 
a nice brown in fresh butter. Pom 



194 



YOU ask! — I'll tell I 



out the fat from the stewpan, and put 
in a pint of gravy, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, half a pint of fr&sli mushrooms, 
if you have them, and three shallots 
chopped fine, season with pepper and 
salt, cover tliem close, and let them 
stew for half an hour. Then skim the 
gravy clean, add a spoonful of ketchup, 
and the juice of half a lemon. Take 
out the herbs, and stir in a piece of 
butter rolled in Hour, boil it up till 
thick. 

An Economical Way to Dress a 
Rabbit. — J^me, one hour. 

Ingredients. — A rabbit, ^ a 
pound of pickled pork, 1 ^ ounces of 
butter, a little flour, and some force- 
meat balls. 

Mode. — Divide and cut the rabbit 
and pork into slices, shred the onion 
fine, and fry the whole a nice brown. 
Then put them into a stewpan with 
just sufficient water to cover them. 
Season it highly with pepper and salt, 
and let it simmer for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. Then thicken 
the gravy with a piece of butter rolled 
in nour. Add a few forcemeat balls, 
and let it again simmer until the 
gravy is the consistency of thick 
cream. 

A Plain Rabbit Pie. — Time, to 
bake, one hour and a quarter. 

Ingredients. — A large rabbit, | 
of a pound of rather fat bacon, a sprig 
of parsley, pepper, salt, and 1 shallot, 
puff paste. 

Mode. — Skim and wash a fine large 
rabbit, cut it into joints, and divide 
the head. Then place it in warm 
water to soak until thoroughly clean. 
Drain it on a sieve, or wipe it with a 
clean cloth. Season it with pepper 
and salt, a sprig of parsley chopped 
fine, and one shallot if the flavor is 
liked (but it is equally good without 
it). Cut the bacon into small pieces, 
dredge the rabbit with flour, and place 
it with the bacon in a pie-dish, com- 
mencing with the inferior parts of the 
rabbit. Pour in a small cupful of 
water, or stock if you have it. Put a 

Saate border round the edges of the 
iab, and cover it with putt' paste 



about half an inch thick. Ornament 
and glaze the top, make a hole in the 
centre, and bake it. 

Rabbit Pudding. — Time, two hours 
to boil. 

Mode. — Cut a small rabbit into 
small neat pieces, and have ready a 
few slices of bacon or ham. Line a 
basin with a good suet crust. Lay in 
the pieces of rabbit with the bacon or 
ham intermixed, season to your taste 
with pepper and salt, and pour in a 
cupful of water. Cover the crust over 
the top, press it securely with the 
thumb and finger, and boil it. 

VENISON.— Haunch of Venison. 
— Tiyne, three to four hours. 

Haunch from 20 to 2S) pounds. 

This joint is trimmed by cutting off" 
part of the knuckle and sawing off the 
chine bone, then the flap is folded over, 
and it is covered with a paste made 
of flour and water. This paste should 
be about an inch thick. Tie it up in 
strong and veiy thick paper, and place 
it in a cradle spit very close to the tire 
till the paste is well hardened or 
crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot 
drippings over it occasionally to pre- 
vent the paper from catching tire. 
Then move it further Irom the tire, 
taking care that your fire is a ve7'y 
good one, clear and strong. When 
the venison has roasted for about four 
hours, take it up, remove the paper 
and paste, and run a thin skewer in 
to see if it is done enough. If the 
skewer goes in easily, it is dressed, if 
not, put it down again, as it depends 
greatly on the strength of the fire for 
so large a joint When it is dressed 
glaze the top and salamander u 
Put a frill round the knuckle, and 
serve very hot with strong gravy. 
Red currant jelly in a glass dish 
or a tureen. Vegetables : French 
beans. 

Neck of Venison. — Time, a quarter 
of an hour for a pound. 

Cover it with paste and paper as 
for the haunch, fix it on a spit, and 
roast. 

To Hash Venison. — Time, one hour 
and a half. 



VENISON. 



195 



Ingredients. — Some cold roast ven- 
ison, 3 tablespoonfuls of port wine, a 
iittle mutton broth, \of a shallot, a pinch 
of Cayeiine, IJ ounces of butter, a spoon- 
ful of flour, and salt to taste. 

Mode. — Cut some cold roast venison 
into nice slices, and season them 
lightly with salt. Put the bones, trim- 
mings, any cold gravy from the veni- 
son, and as much broth as you may 
require, into a stewpan, and let it 
simmer slowly for quite an hour, then 
strain it off. Stir the butter and flour 
over the fire until sufficiently brown to 
color the gravy, taking care it does 
not burn. Pour the gravy from the 
bones, add the port wine, and let it 
simmer until it boils. Then draw 
the stewpan to the side of the fire, put 
in the slices of venison, and when 
thoroughly hot serve it up, with red 
currant jelly in a glass dish. Garnish 
with forcemeat balls about the size of 
a marble. 

Venison Pasty. — Time, to stew, 
three hours and a half; three hours to 
bake. 

Ingredients. — A neck, or shoulder 
of venison, a quarter of a pint of port 
wine, 3 shallots, 3 blades of mace, pepper 
and salt, 9 allspice, a little veal stock or 
broth, raised pie-crust. 

For the Gravy. — A glass of port wine, 
juice of a small lemon, a piece of but- 
ter, and flour, some stock from the 
stewed venison. 

Mode. — Take either oi the above 
parts of venison, remove the bones and 
skin, and cut it into small square 
pieces. Put them into a stewpan with 
three shallots, pepper, salt, mace, and 
allspice. Add a quarter of a pint of 
port wine, and sufficient veal broth or 
stock to cover it, put it on a gentle fire, 
and let it stew until three parts done. 
Then take out the neatest pieces of 
venison for the pasty, and put them 
into a deep dish, in a cold place, with 
a little of the gravy poured over them. 
Pour the remainder of the gravy over 
the bones, etc., and boil for a quarter 
of an hour. Cover the pasty with 
some raised pie-crust, ornament the 
top in any way you please, and bake it 



in a slow oven. When done, have 
ready the gravy left from the bones, 
strain and skim it clean, add a glass 
of port wine, the juice of a small 
lemon, and a piece of butter rolled 
in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and 
serve. 

Pie of Larks or Sparrows. — Time, 
to bake, one hour and a half. 

Ingredients. — A dozen small birds, 
a rumpsteak, a small bunch of savory 
herbs, the peel of ^ a lemon, a slice of 
stale bread, ^ a cupful of milk, 6 eggs, 
pepper and salt, 2 owices of butter, puj) 
paste. 

Mode. — Make a forcemeat with the 
slice of bread soaked in milk and 
beaten up, a small bunch of savory herbs 
chopped fine, the peel of half a lemon 
minced, a seasoning of pepper and salt, 
a piece of butter, and the yolks of six 
eggs; mix all together, put it into 
a stewpan and stir it over the fire 
for a few minutes until it becomes very 
stiff", and then fill the inside of each 
bird. Line a pie-dish with the rump- 
steak, seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and fried lightly ; place the birds on 
it, cover them with the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and 
pour in a sufficient quantity of gravy. 
Put a paste round the edge of the dish 
and cover it over with the same, glaze 
it with the yolk of an egg brushed over 
it, make a hole in the top, and bake 
it. 

To Boil Eggs for Breakfast, 
Salads, etc. — Eggs for boiling can- 
not be too fresh, or boiled too soon 
after they are laid ; but rather a longer 
time should be allowed for boiling a 
new-laid egg than for one that is three 
or four days old. Have ready a sauce- 
pan of boiling water ; put the eggs 
into it gently with a spoon, letting 
the spoon touch the bottom of the 
saucepan before it is withdrawn, that 
the egg may not fall, and consequently 
crack. For those who like eggs lightly 
boiled, three minutes will be found suf- 
ficient ; three minutes and a half will 
be ample time to set the white nicely. 
Should the eggs be unusually large, as 
those of black Spanish fowls some- 



196 



YOU 



ask! — I'l.L tell! 



times are, allow an extra half minute 
for them. Eggs for salads should be 
boiled ten minutes, and should be 
placed in a basin of cold water for a 
few minutes ; they should then be 
rolled on the table with the hand, and 
the shell will peel oflF easily. 

Time. — To boil eggs lightly, for in- 
valids or children, two minutes and a 
half; to boil eggs to suit the generality 
of tastes, three to four minutes; to boil 
eggs hard, five minutes ; for salads, ten 
minutes. 

Poached Eggs. — Ingredients. — 
Eggs, water. 2b every pint of water 
allow 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Mode. — Eggs for poaching should 
be perfectly fresh, but not quite new- 
laid; those that are about thirty-six 
hours old are the best for the purpose. 
If quite new-laid, the white is so milky 
it is almost impossible to set it; and, 
on the other hand, if the egg be at all 
stale, it is equally difficult to poach it 
nicely. Strain some boiling water into 
a deep, clean frying-pan ; break the 
egg into a cup without damaging the 
yolk, and, when the water boils, re- 
move the pan to the side of the fire, 
and gently slip the egg into it. Place 
tlie pan over a gentle fire, and keep 
the water simmering until the white 
looks nicely set, when the egg is ready. 
Take it np gently with a slice, cut 
away the ragged edges of the white, 
and serve either on toasted bread or 
on slices of ham or bacon, or on spin- 
ach, etc. A poached egg should not 
be overdone, as its appearance and 
taste will be quite spoiled if the yolk 
be allowed to harden. When the egg 
is slipped into the water, the white 
should be gathered together, to keep 
it a little in form, or the cup should 
be turned over it for half a minute. 
To poach an egg to perfection is rather 
a difficult operation ; so, for inex- 
perienced cooks, a tin egg-poacher 
may be purchased, which greatly fa- 
cilitates this manner of dressing eggs. 
It consists of a tin plate with a handle, 
with a space for tliree perforated cups. 
An egg should be broken into each 
cup, and the machine then placed in 



a stewpan of boiling water, which has 
been previously strained. When the 
whites of the eggs appear set, they are 
done, and should then be carefully 
slipped on to the toast or spinach, or 
with whatever they are served. In 
poaching eggs in a frying-pan, never 
do more than four at a time; and, 
when a little vinegar is liked mixed 
with the water in which the eggs are 
done, use the above proportion. 

Time, two and a half to three and a 
half minutes, according to the size of 
the egg. Seasonable, at any time, but 
less plentiful in winter. 

Eggs and Bacon. — Time, three to 
four minutes. 

Ingredients. — 6 eggs, \ of a pound 
of dripping or butter, some slices of ham 
or bacon. 

Break five or six fresh eggs into 
cups, and slip them into a delicately 
clean frying-pan of boiling dripping 
or butter. When the whites are set, 
take them up with a slice, trim off the 
rough edges, and drain them from the 
grease. Then place them in the centre 
of the dish, and the slices of fried bacon 
round the edge, or the eggs may be 
served on the bacon, whichever you 
prefer. 

Friar's Omelet. — Ingredients. — 
8 or 9 large apples, 2 ounces of fresh 
butter, sugar to taste, bread-crumbs. 

Boil eight or nine large apples to a 
pulp, stir in two ounces of butter, and 
add pounded sugar to taste. When 
cold, add an egg well beaten up. Then 
butter the bottom of a deep baking 
dish, and the sides also. Thickly strew 
crumbs of bread, so as to stick all over 
the bottom and sides. Put in the mix- 
ture, and strew bread-crumbs plenti- 
fully over the top. Put it into a 
moderate oven, and when baked turn 
it out, and put powdered sugar over. 

The Way to Make an Omelet.— It 
is surprising that a dish so easily pre- 
pared, and so delicious, as omelet, has 
come into use to so small an extent in 
this country. There are extensive dis- 
tricts where it has never been heard o^ 
and many housekeepers who meet with 
it in their travels never have it upon 



EGGS. 



19- 



their own tables, because their cooks 
do not know how to prepare it. 

Omelet is simply egg beaten and 
fried in butter. Break three fresh eggs 
into a bowl, add a little pinch of salt 
and a teaspoonful of water, and beat 
the eggs thoroughly. Then put a table- 
spoonful of godti butter into a flat fry- 
ing-pan, and hold the pan over the fire 
with the handle a little elevated so as 
to incline the bottom at a small angle. 
As soon as the pan is warm pour in the 
eggs, and as the mass begins to cook 
run a case-knife under it to keep it 
from burning to the pan. As soon as 
the surface is about dry fold one half 
of the omelet over the other, and it is 
ready to serve. It can be made in five 
minutes, and is an exceedingly delicate 
and delicious morsel. 

Ordinary Omelet. — Take four 
eggs, beat the yolks and whites to- 
gether, with a tablespoonful of milk, a 
little salt and pepper ; put two ounces 
of butter into a frying-pan to boil, and 
let it remain until it begins to brown ; 
pour the batter into it, and let it re- 
main quiet for a minute ; turn up the 
edges of the omelet gently from the 
bottom of the pan with a fork ; shake 
it, to keep it from burning at the bot- 
tom, and fry it till of a bright brown. 
It will not take more than five minutes 
frying. 

How to Tell Good Eggs. — Place 
the large end of the egg against the 
tongue; if it becomes immediately warm 
to the tongue, the egg is very fresh ; if 
it becomes warm slowly, it is stale ; if 
no heat is felt, the egg is bad. The de- 
gree of freshness of eggs is thus easily 
ascertained. 

Oxford Sausages. — Ingredients. 
— 1 pound of lean veal, 1 pound of 
young pork, 1 pound of beef suet, \ a 
pound of grated bread, peel of \ a 
lemon, 1 nutmeg grated, 6 sage leaves, 
1 teaspoonful of pepper, 2 of salt, a 
^prig of thyme, savory, and marjoram. 

Take a pound of lean veal, and the 
same quantity of young pork, fat and 
lean together, free from skin and gris- 
tle, and a pound of beef suet ; chop all 
separately as fine as possible, and then 



mix together; add the grated bread, 
the peel of half a lemon shred fine, a 
nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, two of salt, and the sage leaves, 
thyme, savory, and marjoram, all 
chopped as fine as you can ; mix all 
thoroughly together, and press it down 
into a prepared skin. When you use 
them, fry them in fresh butter a fine 
brown. Serve as hot as possible. 

Bologna Sausages. — Take equal 
quantities of bacon (fat and lean), beef, 
veal, pork, and beef suet ; chop them 
small, season with pepper, salt, etc., 
sweet herbs, and sage rubbed fine. 
Have a well-washed intestine, fill, and 
prick it ; boil gently for an hour, and 
lay on straw to dry. They may be 
smoked the same as hams. 

Mutton Sausages. — The lean of the 
leg is the best. Add half as much of 
beef suet ; that is, a pound of lean and 
half a pound of suet (this proportion 
is good for all sausages). Add 
oysters, anchovies chopped very fine, 
and flavor with seasoning. No herbs. 
These will require a little fat in the 
pan to fry. 

Veal Sausages are made exactly as 
Oxford sausages, except that you add 
ham fat or fat bacon ; and, instead 
of sage, use marjoram, thyme, and 
parsley. 

Preparing Sausage Skins. — Turn 
them inside out, and stretch them on 
a stick ; wash and scrape them in 
several waters. When thoroughly 
cleansed, take them ofi" the sticks, and 
soak in salt and water two or three 
hours before filling. 

Sausages should be well cooked; let 
them remain in the frying-pan long 
enough to be well cooked all through. 
As soon as they are done, remove them 
from the pan, and take two or three 
slices of bread, dip them quickly in 
cold water, then put them in the pan 
while the fat is boiling hot, place the 
frying-pan on the fire, and let the 
bread be well browned on both sides ; 
then place the bread ou a dish, and 
the sausages on top of it. This bread 
will be found a great addition to the 
sausages. 



198 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



SWEETBREAD. — Trim a fine 
Bweetbread (it cannot be too fresh), 
parboil it for five minutes, and throw 
it into a basin of cold water. *rhen 
roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of 
an egg, and prepare some fine bread- 
crumbs ; or when the sweetbread is 
cold, dry it thoroughly in a cloth ; run 
a lark-spit or a skewer through it, and 
tie it on the ordinary spit ; egg it 
with a paste-brush ; powder it well 
with bread-crumbs, and roast it. For 
sauce, fried bread-crumbs, melted but- 
ter, with a little mushroom ketchup, 
and lemon-juice, or serve on buttered 
toast, garnished with egg sauce, or 
with gravy. Instead of spitting the 
sweetbread, you may put it into an 
oven, or fry it. 

Sweetbreads Plain. — Parboil and 
slice them as before, dry them in a 
clean cloth, flour them, and fry them a 
delicate brown ; take eare to drain the 
fat well, and garnish with slices of 
lemon, and sprigs of chervil or pars- 
ley, or crisp parsley. Serve with sauce, 
and slices of ham or bacon, or force- 
meat balls. 

KIDNEYS.— Cut them through the 
long way, score them, sprinkle a little 
pepper and salt on them, and run a 
wire skewer through to keep them 
from curling on the gridiron, so that 
they may be evenly broiled. Broil 
over a clear fire, taking care not to 
prick them with the fork, turning 
them often till they are done ; they will 
take about ten or twelve minutes, if the 
fire is brisk: or fry them in butter, and 
make gravy for them in the pan (after 
you have taken out the kidneys), by 
putting in a teaspoonful of flour. As 
Boon as it looks brown, put in as much 
water as will make gravy ; they will 
take five minutes more to fry than to 
broil. 

DEVIL. — The gizzard and rump, 
or legs, etc., of a dressed turkey, capon, 
or goose, or mutton or veal kidney, 
scored, peppered, salted, and broiled, 
sent up for a relish, being made very 
hot, has obtained the name of a 
" Devil." 

BACON. — The boiling of bacon 



is a very simple subject to comment 
upon ; but our main object is to teach 
common cooks the art of dressing 
common food in the best manner. 
Cover a pound of nice streaked bacon 
with cold water ; let it boil gently for 
three-quarters of an hour; take it up, 
scrape the under-side well, and cut 
off" the rind. Grate a crust of bread, 
not only on the top but all over it, as 
you would ham ; put it before the fire 
for a few minutes, not too long, or it 
will dry and spoil it. Bacon is some- 
times as salt as salt can make it ; 
therefore, before it is boiled, it must 
be soaked in warm water for an hour 
or two, changing the water once. 
Then pare ofi" the rusty and smoked 
part, trim it nicely on the under-side, 
and scrape the rind as clean as pos- 
sible. 

Ham or Bacon Slices should not 
be more than one-eighth of an inch 
thick, and, for delicate persons, should 
be soaked in hot water for a quarter 
of an hour, and then well wiped and 
dried before broiling. If you wish to 
curl it, roll it up, and put a wooden 
skewer through it ; then it may be 
dressed in a cheese-toaster or a Dutch 
oven. 

SOUPS. — General Directions for 
Making- Soups. — Lean, juicy Beef, 
Mutton, and Veal, form the basis 
of all good soups; therefore it is ad- 
visable to procure those pieces which 
aff()rd the richest succulence, and such 
as are fresh-killed. Stale meat ren- 
ders soups bad, and fat is not well 
adapted for making them. The prin- 
cipal art in composing good rich soup 
is so to proportion the several ingre- 
dients that the flavor of one shall not 
predominate over another, and that all 
the articles of which it is composed 
shall form an agreeable whole. Care 
must be taken that the roots and herbs 
are perfectly well cleaned, and that 
the water is proportioned to the quan- 
tity of meat and other ingredients, al- 
lowing a quart of water to a pound of 
meat for soups, and half that quantity 
for gravies. In making soups or gra- 
vies, gentle stewing or simmering ia 



SOUPS. 



199 



absolutely necessary. It may be re- 
marked, moreover, that a really good 
poup can never be made but in a well- 
closed vessel, although, perhaps, greater 
wholesomeness is obtained by an oc- 
casional exposure to the air. Soups 
will, in general, take from four to six 
hours doing, and are much better pre- 
pared the day before they are wanted. 
When the soup is cold, the fat may be 
easily and completely removed; and 
in pouring it off, care must be taken 
not to disturb the settlings at the bot- 
tom of the vessel, which are so fine 
that they will escape through a sieve. 
A very fine hair sieve or cloth is the 
best strainer, and if the soup is strained 
while it is hot, let the tamis or cloth 
be previously soaked in cold water. 
Clear soujis must be perfectly trans- 
parent, and thickened soups about the 
consistency of cream. To obtain a 
really clear and transparent soup, it is 
requisite to continue skimming the 
liquor until there is not a particle of 
scum remaining, this being commenced 
immediately after the water is added 
to the meat. To thicken and give 
body to soups and gravies, potato 
mucilage, arrowroot, bread-raspings, 
isinglass, flour and butter, barley, rice, 
or oatmeal, are used. A piece of 
boiled beef pounded to a pulp, with a 
bit of butter and flour, and rubbed 
through a sieve, and gradually incor- 
porated with the soup, will be found 
an excellent addition. When soups 
and gravies are kept from day to day 
in hot weather, they should be warmed 
Bp every day, put into fresh-scalded 
pans or tureens, and placed in a cool 
larder. In temperate weather, every 
other day may be suflScient. Stock 
made from meat only, keeps good 
longer than that boiled with vege- 
tables, the latter being liable to turn 
the mixture sour, particularly in very 
warm weather. 

Clear Stock for Soups. — Time, six 
hours and a half. 

Ingredients. — 6 or 7 pounds of 
knuckle of veal or beef, ^ pound of 
lean ham or bacon, I pound of 
butter, $alt, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 1 tur- 



nip, I a head of celery, 2 gallont of 
water. 

Mode. — Cut fresh meat and ham into 
very small pieces, and put them into a 
stewpan which has been rubbed over 
with a quarter of a pound of butter ; 
add half a pint of water, the salt, 
onions, turnip, carrot, and celery cut 
into slices; cover the stewpan, and 
place it over a very quick fire until 
the bottom of the pan is glazed, but 
stirring it round frequently to prevent 
its burning ; then pour in the two gal- 
lons of water, and when on the point 
of boiling, draw it to the side of the 
fire to simmer for six and a half or seven 
hours, if the stock is made of beef; 
skim it thoroughly, and when done 
pass it through a very tine sieve for 
use. A little browning or gravy must 
be used to color it. 

General Stock-Pot. — Stock, in its 
composition, is not confined to the 
above proportions ; any meat or bones 
are useful ; pieces of beef, from any 
part of which gravy can be extracted; 
bones, skin, brisket, or tops of ribs, ox 
cheek, pieces of mutton, bacon, ham, 
and trimmings of turkeys, fowls, veal, 
etc. ; and also of hare, pheasant, if 
they are old and fit for no other pur- 
pose — in fact anything that will be- 
come a jelly — will assist in making 
stock ; to this medley of ingredients 
add carrots cut into slices, herbs, 
onions, pepper, salt, spice, etc., and 
when all have stewed until the stock 
is of a rich consistency, take it from 
the fire and pour it out to cool. When 
cold, all the fat must be taken off, and 
it must be poured clear from the sedi- 
ment. When the soup is required to 
be very rich, the jelly from a cow-heel, 
or a lump of butter rolled in flour, 
must be added to the stock. 

The stock-pot should never be suf- 
fered to be empty, as almost any meats 
(save salt meats) or fowls make stock ; 
the remains should never be thrown 
anywhere but into the stock-pot, and 
should too much stock be already in 
your possession, boil it do«vn to a glaze;, 
waste is thus avoided. 

Economical Stock. — [ngkedtests. 



200 



YOU ask! — r'f,r. trt-t>! 



ITie liquor in which a joint of meat has 
been boiled, my 4 quarts, trimmings of 
fresh meat or poultry, shank-bones, etc. , 
roast-beef bones, any pieces the larder 
may furnish, vegetables, spices, and sea- 
soning. 

Mode. — Let all the ingredients sim- 
mer gently for five hours, taking care 
to skim carefully at first. Strain the 
stock off, and put it by for use. 

Time, five hours. 

White Stock — To be used in the i^re- 
paration of vihite soups. — Ingredients. 
— 4 pounds of knuckle of veal, any poul- 
try trimmings, 4 slices of lean ham, 1 
carrot, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, 12 
white peppercorns, 1 ounce of salt, 1 blade 
of mace, 1 ounce of butter, 4 quarts of 
water. 

Mode. — Cut up the veal, and put it, 
with the bones and trimmings of poul- 
try and the ham, into the stewpan, 
which has been rubbed with the butter. 
Moisten with half a pint of water, 
and simmer till the gravy begins to 
flow. Then add the four quarts of 
water with the remainder of the ingre- 
dients, and simmer for five hours. 
After skimming and straining it care- 
fully through a very fine hair sieve, it 
will be ready for use. 

TYwe, five and a half hours. 

Note. — When stronger stock is desired, double 
tlie quantity of veal, or put iu an old fowl. The 
liquor in wliich a young turkey has been boiled is 
an excellent addition to all white stock or soups. 

Browning for Stock. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 2 ounces of powdered sugar, and 
J a pint of water. 

Mode. — Place the sugar in a stew- 
pan over a slow fire until it begins to 
melt, keeping it stirred with a wooden 
spoon until it becomes black, then add 
the water, and let it dissolve. Cork 
closely, and use a few drops when re- 
quired. 

Note. — In France, burnt onions are made use of 
for the ]>urposr of browning. As a gen(tral rule, 
the process of browning is to be discouraged, as 
apt to impart a slightly unpleasant flavor to the 
stock, and, conHe(iuently, all soups made from it. 

To Clarify Stock.— Ingredients. 

— 7Vi€ whites of two eggs, J pint of 
water, 2 quarts of stock. 



Mode. — Supposing that by some ac- 
cident the soup is not quite clear, and 
that its quantity is two quarts, take 
the whites of two eggs, carefully sepa- 
rated from their yolks, whisk them well 
together with the water, and add 
gradually the two quarts of boiling 
stock, still whisking. Place the soup 
on the fire, and when boiling and well 
skimmed, whisk the eggs with it till 
nearly boiling again ; then draw it 
from the fire, and let it settle, until the 
whites of the eggs become separated. 
Pass through a fine cloth, and the soup 
should be clear. 

Note. — The rule is, that all clear soup should be 
of a light-straw color, and should not savor too 
strongly of the meat ; and that all white or brown 
thick soups should have no more consistency than 
will enable them to adhere slightly to the spoon 
when hot. 

A good Family Soup. — Ingredi- 
ents. — Remains of a cold tongue, 2 
pounds of shin of beef, any cold 2)ieces 
of meat or beef-bones, 2 turnips, 2 car- 
rots, 2 onions, 1 parsnip, 1 head of 
celery, 4 quarts of water, ^ teacupful of 
rice ; salt and pepper to taste. 

Mode. — Put all the ingredients in a 
stewpan, and simmer gently for four 
hours, or until all the goodness is 
drawn from the meat. Strain off the 
soup, and let it stand to get cold. The 
kernels and soft parts of the tongue 
must be saved. When the soup is 
wanted for use, skim off all the fat, put 
in the kernels and soft parts of the 
tongue, slice in a small quantity of 
fresh carrot, turnip, and onion ; stew 
till the vegetables are tender, and 
serve with toasted bread. 

Time, five hours. Seasonable at any 
time. 

Gravy Soup. — Ingredients. — 4 
pounils of shin of beef, a piece of the 
knuckle of veal weighing 3 pounds, a few 
pieces or trimmings of meat or poultry, 
3 slices of nicely flavored lean ham, ^ 
pound of butter, 2 onions, 4 carrots, 1 
turnip, nearly a head of celery, 1 blade 
of mace, 6 cloves, a bunch of savory 
herbs, seasonings of salt and pepper to 
taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 5 quarts of boil- 
ing soft water. It can be flavored with 



SOUPS. 



201 



ketchup, or Harvey's sauce, and a little 
Soy. 

Mode. — Slightly brown the meat and 
ham in the butter, but do not let them 
burn. When this is done, pour to it 
the water, put in the salt, and as the 
scum rises take it off; when no more 
appears, add all the other ingredients, 
and let the soup simmer slowly by the 
fire for six hours without stirring it 
any more from the bottom ; take it 
off, and pass it through a sieve. When 
perfectly cold and settled, all the fat 
should be removed, leaving the sedi- 
ment untouched, which serves very 
nicely for thick gravies, hashes, etc. 
The flavoring should be added when 
the soup is heated for table. 

TiTTie, seven hours. Seasonable all 
the year. 

Mock Turtle. — Ingredients.— J a 
calf's head, i pound of butter, ^ pound 
of lean ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced 
parsley, a little minced lemon, thyme, 
sweet marjoram, basil, 2 onions, a few 
chopped mushrooms {when obtainable), 2 
shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 glasses 
of Madeira or sherry, forcemeat balls, 
Cayenne, salt and mace to taste, the juice 
of 1 lemon and 1 Seville orange, 1 dessert- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, 3 quarts of 
best strong stock. 

Mode. — Scald the head with the skin 
on, remove the brain, tie the head up 
in a cloth, and let it boil for one hour. 
Then take the meat from the bones, cut 
it into small square pieces, and throw 
them into cold water. Now take the 
nieat, put it into a stewpan, and cover 
with stock ; let it boil gently for an 
Jiuur, or rather more, if not quite ten- 
tier, and set it on one side. Melt the 
butter in another stewpan, and add the 
ham, cut small, with the herbs, pars- 
ley, onions, shallot, mushrooms, and 
nearly a pint of stock ; let these sim- 
mer slowly for two hours, and then 
dredge in as much flour as will dry up 
the butter. Fill up with the re- 
mainder of the stock, add the wine, let 
it stew gently for ten minutes, rub it 
through a sieve, and put it to the 
calf's head ; season with Cayenne, 
aud, if required, a little salt ; add the 



juice of the orange and lemon ; and 
when liked, quarter teaspoonful of 
pounded mace, and sugar. Put in the 
forcemeat balls, simmer five minutes, 
and serve very hot. The wine may be 
omitted if preferred. 

Time, four hours and a half. Sea- 
sonable in winter. 

Note. — The bones of the head should be well 
stewed in the liquor it was first boiled in, and will 
make good white stock, flavored with vegetables, 
etc. 

Mock Turtle, or Calf's Head 
Soup {Economical). — Boil the head 
till very tender, then take it up, strain 
the liquor, and set it away until the 
next day. Then skim off the fat, cut 
up the meat, together with the lights, 
and put them into the liquor, and stew 
the whole gently for half an hour. 
Season the soup with salt, pepper, 
and sweet herbs. Add cloves, or 
curry powder, if you want it seasoned 
highly, and, just as you take it up, 
stir in half a pint of white wine. If 
you wish for forcemeat balls in the 
soup, they should be prepared and 
added to the soup when put on to 
boil. 

Clear Gravy Soup. — This may be 
made from shin of beef, which should 
not be large or coarse. The meat will 
be found serviceable for the table. 
From ten pounds of the meat let the 
butcher cut off five or six from the 
thick fleshy part, and again divide the 
knuckle, that the whole may lie com- 
pactly in the vessel in which it is to 
be stewed. Pour in three quarts of 
cold water, and when it has been 
brought slowly to boil, and been well 
skimmed, throw in an ounce and a 
half of salt, half a large teaspoonful of 
peppercorns, eight cloves, two blades 
of mace, a faggot of savory herbs, a 
couple of small carrots, and the heart 
of a root of celery ; to these add a 
mild onion or not, at choice. When 
the whole has stewed very softly for 
four hours, probe the large bit of beef, 
and, if quite tender, lift it out for 
table. Let the soup be simmered 
from two to three hours longer, and 
then strain it through a fine sieve, into 



202 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



& clean pan. When it is perfectly cold, 
clear off every particle of fat. Heat a 
couple of quarts ; stir in, when it boils, 
half an ounce of sugar, a small table- 
spoonful of good soy, and twice as 
much of Harvey's sauce, or, instead of 
this, of clear and fine mushroom 
ketchup. If carefully made, the soup 
will be perfectly transparent, and of 
good color and flavor. A thick slice 
of ham will improve it, and a pound 
or so of the neck of beef, with an ad- 
ditional pint of water, will likewise 
enrich its quality. A small quantity 
of good broth may be made of the 
fragments of the whole, boiled down 
with a few fresh vegetables. 

Ox Tail Soup. — Ingredients. — 
2 ox-tails, 2 sliceti of ham, 1 ounce of 
butter, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 1 
leek, 1 head of celerij, 1 bunch of savory 
herbs, 1 bay- leaf, 12 whole peppercorns, 
4 cloves, a tablespoonful of salt, 3 small 
lumps of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
ketchup, J glass of port wine, 3 quarts 
of water. 

Mode. — Cut up the tails, separating 
them at the joints. Wash them, and 
put them in a stewpan, with the but- 
ter. Put in half a pint of water, and 
stir them over a sharp fire till the 
juices are drawn. Fill up the stew- 
pan with the water, and, when boil- 
ing, add the salt. Skim well. Cut the 
vegetables in slices, add them, with 
the pei)percorns and herbs, and sim- 
mer very gently for four hours, or 
until the tails are tender. Take them 
out, skim and strain the soup, thicken 
with flour, and flavor with the ketchup 
and port wine. Put back the tails, 
simmer for five minutes, and serve. 

Time, four and a half hours. Sea- 
sonable in winter. 

Tomato Soup. — Take the remains 
of any roast meat you may happen to 
have, or beefsteak ; boil it with more 
than sufficient water to coyer it. When 
quite tender, take it out of the liquor, 
cut oft' all the fat, cut up tlie lean into 
small pieces, put it into the liquor, to- 
gether with skinned ripe tomatoes, in 
the proportion of a dozen to three 
quarts of the liquor. Boil the whole 



together for three-quarters of an hour, 
season it while boiling with a large 
spoonful of sugar, pepper, and salt, 
and add cloves if you like. 

Oyster Soup. — Separate the oysters 
from the liquor ; rinse the oysters in 
cold water, in order to get off the bits 
of shell which adhere to them ; strain 
the liquor, and to each quart of it put 
a pint of milk, or water. Set it where 
it will boil, and thicken it when it 
boils with a little flour and water 
mixed smoothly together; season it 
with pepper, add a little vinegar, if 
you like, then put in the oysters, and 
let them be in just long enough to 
get scalded through ; otherwise they 
will be hard. Add salt after taking 
up the soup ; if added before it will 
shrink the oysters. Serve up the soup 
with crackers. 

Pea Soup (Green).— Ingredients. 
— 3 pints of green peas, \ pound of but- 
ter, 2 or 3 thin slices of ham, 4 onions 
sliced, 4 shredded lettuces, the crumbs of 
2 French rolls, 2 handfuls of spinach, 1 
lump of sugar, 2 quarts of stock. 

Mode. — Put the butter, ham, one 
quart of the peas, onions, and lettuces, 
to a pint of stock, and simmer for an 
hour; then add the remainder of the 
stock, with the crumbs of the French 
rolls, and boil for another hour. Now 
boil the spinach, squeeze it very dry, 
and rub it, with the soup, through a 
sieve, to give the preparation a good 
color. Have ready a pint of young 
peas boiled ; add them to the soup, 
put in the sugar, give one boil, and 
serve. If necessary, add salt. 

Time, two hours and a half Season- 
able from June to the end of August. 

JVote. — It will be well to add, if the peas are not 
tjiiite j'oung, a little more sugar. Where economy 
i.s essential, water may be used instead of stock for 
this soup, boiling in it likewise the peashells, and 
using ratiiera larger quantity of vegetables. 

Winter Pea Soup (Yellow). — In- 
gredients. — 1 quart of split peas, 2 
pounds of shin of beef, trimmings of meat 
or poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large car- 
rots, 2 turnips, 5 large onions, 1 head of 
celery, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft 
water, any bones left from roast meat, 2 



SOUPS. 



203 



fuarts of common stock, or liquor in 
which a Joint of meat has been boiled. 

Mode. — Put the peas to soak over 
night in soft water, and float ofT such 
as rise to the top. Boil them in water 
till tender enough to pulp ; then add 
the ingredients mentioned above, and 
simmer for two hours, stirring the 
soup occasionally, to prevent it from 
burning to the bottom of the sauce- 
pan. Press the whole through a sieve, 
skim well, season, and serve with 
toasted bread cut in dice. 

Time, four hours. May be made all 
the year round, but is more suitable 
for cold weather. 

Macaroni Soup.. — Titne, three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Ingredients. — 4 ounces of maca- 
roni, 1 large onion, 5 cloves, 1 ounce of 
butter, and 2 quarts of clear gravy soup. 

Put into a stewpan of boiling water 
four ounces of macaroni, one ounce of 
butter, and an onion stuck with five 
cloves. When the macaroni has be- 
come quite tender, drain it very dry, 
and pour on it two quarts of clear 
gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten 
minutes, taking care that the maca- 
roni does not burst or become a pulp. 
It will then be ready to serve. It 
should be sent to table with grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

Macaroni is a great improvement to 
white soup, or to clear gravy soup, but 
it must be previously boiled for twenty 
minutes in water. 

Vegetable Soups. — The vegetables 
should be nicely prepared. Cut carrots 
in thin rounds, with the edges notched ; 
grated, they give an amber color to 
soup ; wash parsley carefully, and 
cut it small; cut turnips into thin 
slices, and then divide the round into 
four; cut leeks in slices; cut celery 
in half inch lengths, the delicate green 
leaves impart a fine flavor to the soup. 
Take the skins from tomatoes and 
squeeze out some of the seeds. Add a 
lump of sugar to soups of vegetables 
or roots, to soften them and improve 
the flavor. 

Pepperpot. — Time, three hours and 



Ingredients, — 4 pounds of gravy 
beef 6 quarts of water, a bouquet of 
savory herbs, 2 small crabs or lobsters, a 
large bunch of spinach, ^ a pound of cold 
bacon, a few suet dumplings {m.ade of 
four, beef-suet, and yolk of one egg), 1 
pound of asparagus tops, Cayenne pepper ^ 
pepper and salt to taste, juice of a lemon. 

Put four pounds of gravy beef into 
six quarts of water, with the bouquet 
of savory herbs; let it simmer well till 
all the goodness is extracted, skimming 
it well. Let it stand till cold, that all 
the fat may be taken off" it. Put 
it into a stewpan and heat it. When 
hot, add the flesh of two middling- 
sized crabs or lobsters, nicely cut up, 
spinach well boiled and chopped fine, 
half a pound of cold bacon or pickled 
pork, dressed previously and cut into 
small pieces, a few small dumplings, 
made verj' light with flour, beef- suet, 
yolk of egg, and a little water. Add 
one pound of asparagus tops, season to 
your taste with Cayenne, salt, pepper, 
and juice of a lemon ; stew for about 
half an hour, stirring it constantly. 

Beef Extract (as recommended 
BY Baron Liebig). — Take a pound 
of good juicy beef from which all the 
skin and fat has been cut away, chop 
it up like sausage meat ; mix it thor- 
oughly v/ith a pint of cold water, place 
it on the side of the stove to heat very 
slowly, and give an occasional stir. It 
may stand two or three hours before it 
is allowed to simmer, and will then 
require but fifteen minutes of gentle 
boiling. Salt should be added when 
the boiling commences, and this, for 
invalids in general, is the only season- 
ing required. When the extract is 
thus far prepared, it may be poured 
from the meat into a basin, and al- 
lowed to stand until any particles of 
fat on the surface can be skimmed off", 
and the sediment has subsided and left 
the soup quite clear, when it may be 
poured off gently, heated in a clean 
saucepan, and served. The scum should 
be well cleared as it accumulates. 

Beef Glaze, or Portable Soup, 
is simply the essence of beef con- 
densed by evaporation. It may be put 



204 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



into pots, like potted meats, or into 
skins, as sausages, and will keep for 
many months. If further dried in 
cakes or lozenges, by being laid on 
pans or dishes, and frequently turned, 
it will keep for years, and supply soup 
at any moment. 

Four Excellent Sandwiches. — 
Cheese: Take two-thirds of good 
cheese, grated, and one-third of butter, 
add a little cream ; pound all together 
in a mortar ; then spread it on slices 
of brown bread ; lay another slice over 
each ; press them gently together, and 
cut in small square pieces. — Egg : 
Boil fresh eggs for five minutes ; put 
them in cold water, and when quite 
cold, peel them, and after taking a 
little of the white off each one of the 
eggs, cut the remainder in four slices ; 
lay them between bread and butter. — 
Fried Egg : Beat some eggs well ; fry 
them in butter as a pancake; when 
cold, cut them in small squares, and 
lay them between slices of brown 
bread and butter. — Omelet : Take 
four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, and half an ounce of chopped 
parsley. After beating the eggs well, 
add the bread crumbs, then the pars- 
ley, and two tablespoonfuls of water ; 
season, and fry in small fritters, and 
when cold, put them between slices of 
brown bread and butter. 

FISH. — General Rule in Choos- 
ing Fish. — A proof of freshness and 
goodness in most fishes is their being 
covered with scales ; for, if deficient in 
this respect, it is a sign of their being 
stale, or having been ill-used. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. — In- 
gredients. — Sufficient water to cover 
the fish ; 5 ounces of salt to each gallon 
of water. 

Mode. — Cleanse the fish thoroughly, 
and rub a very little salt over the thick 
part and inside of the fish, one or two 
hours before dressing it, as this very 
much improves the flavor. Lay it in 
the fish-kettle, with sufficient cold 
water to cover it. Be very particular 
not to pour the water on the fish, as it 
ia liable to break it, and only keep it 
juat simmering. If the water should 



boil away, add a little by pouring it in 
at the side of the kettle, and not on the 
fish. Add salt in the above proportion, 
and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim 
very carefully, draw it to the side of 
the fire, and let it gently simmer till 
done. Take it out and drain it; serve 
on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut 
lemon, horseradish, and the liver. 

Time, according to size, half an hour, 
more or less. Seasonable from Novem- 
ber to March. 

Note. — Oyster sauce and plain melted butter 
sliduld be served with this. 

To Choose Cod. — The cod should 
be chosen for the table when it is 
plump and round near the tail, when 
the hollow behind the head is deep, 
and when the sides are undulated as if 
they were ribbed. The glutinous parts 
about the head lose their delicate flavor 
after the fish has been twenty-four 
hours out of the water. The great 
point by which the cod should be 
judged is the firmness of its flesh ; and 
although the cod is not firm when it is 
alive, its quality may be arrived at by 
pressing the finger into the flesh. If 
this rises immediately, the fish is good; 
if not, it is stale. Another sign of its 
goodness is, if the fish, when it is cut, 
exhibits a bronze apj^earance, like the 
silver side of a round of beef. When 
this is the case, the flesh will be firn. 
when cooked. Stiffness in a cod, or in 
any other fish, is a sure sign of fresh- 
ness, though not always of quality. 
Sometimes codfish, though exhibiting 
signs of rough usage, will eat much 
better than those with red gills, so 
strongly recommended by many cook- 
ery-books. This appearance is gener- 
ally caused by the fish having been 
knocked about at sea, in the well-boats, 
in which they are conveyed from the 
fishing-grounds to market. 

Salt Cod, commonly called "Salt 
Fish." — Wash the fish, and lay it all 
night in water, with a quarter pint of 
vinegar. When tlwrouglily soaked, take 
it out, see that it is perfectly clean, 
and put it in the fish-kettle, with suf- 
ficient cold water to cover it. Ueat it 



FISH. 



205- 



gradually, and do not let it boil fast, 
or the fish will be hard. Skim well, 
and when done, drain the fish, and put 
it on a napkin garnished with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in rings. 

Time, about one hour. Seasoncble 
in the spring. 

Note. — Serve with egg sauce and parsnips. This 
is an especial dish on Ash Wednesday. 

Cod Pie [Economical). — Ingredi- 
ents. — Any remains of cold cod, 1 2 
oysters, sufficient melted butter to moisten 
it, rnashed potatoes enough to fill up the 
dish. 

Mode. — Flake the fish from the 
bone, and carefully take away all the 
skin. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over 
the melted butter and oysters (or 
oyster sauce, if there is any left), and 
cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for 
half an hour, and send to table of a 
nice brown color. 

Tim^, half an hour. Seasonable from 
November to March. 

Fried Eels. — Ingredients. — 1 
pound of eels, 1 egg, a few bread crumbs, 
hot lard. 

Mode. — Wash the eels, cut them 
into pieces three inches long, trim, 
and wipe them very dry. Dredge 
with flour, rub them over with egg, 
and cover with bread crumbs. Fry 
of a nice brown in hot lard. If the 
eels are small, curl them round, in- 
stead of cutting them up. Garnish 
with fried parsley. 

Time, twenty minutes or rather less. 
Seasonable from June to March. 

Eel Pie. — Ingredients. — 1 
pound of eels, a little chopped parsley, 
I shallot, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt 
to taste, the juice of ^ a lemon, small 
quantity of forcemeat, \ pint of good 
gravy, puff paste. 

Mode. — Skin and wash the eels, cut 
them into pieces two inches long, and 
line the bottom of the pie-dish with 
forcemeat. Put in the eels, and sprinkle 
them with the parsley, shallots, nut- 
meg, seasoning, and lemon-juice, and 
cover with puff paste. Bake for one 
hour, or rather more. Make the gravy 
hot, pour it into the pie, and serve. 



Time, rather more than one hour. 
Seasonable from June to March. 

Fish and Oyster Pie. — Ingredi- 
ents. — Any remains of o»ld fish, such 
as cod or haddock, 2 dozen oysters, pep- 
per and salt to taste, bread crumbs suf 
ficient for the quantify of fish, J tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonfut 
of finely chopped parsley, some made 
melted butter. 

Mode. — Clear the fish from the 
bones, and put a layer of it in a pie- 
dish, which sprinkle with pepper and 
salt; then a layer of bread crumbs, 
oysters, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. 
Eepeat this till the dish is quite full. 
A covering may be formed either of 
bread crumbs, which should be 
browned, or puff paste. The latter 
should be cut into long strips, and 
laid in cross-bars over the fish, with a 
line of the paste first laid round the 
edge. Before putting on the top, pour 
in some made melted butter, or a lit- 
tle thin white sauce, and the oyster 
liquor, and bake. 

Time, if made of cooked fish, quarter 
to half an hour. If made of fresh fish, 
and puff paste, three-quarters of an 
hour. Seasonable from September to 
April. 

Note. — A nice little dish may be made by flak- 
ing any cold fish, adding a few oysters, seasoning 
with pepper and salt, and coveringi with mashed 
potatoes. A quarter to half an hour will bake it. 

Baked Haddock. — Fill the interior 
of the fish with veal stuffing. Sew it up 
with packthread, and truss it with the 
tail in its mouth. Eub a piece of butter 
over the back, or egg, and bread 
crumb it over. Set it on a baking- 
dish, which put into a moderate oven 
to bake. A common haddock would 
require but half an hour. The better 
plan is to run the point of a knife 
down to the backbone, from which if 
the flesh parts easily, it is done. Dress 
it upon a dish without a napkin, and 
serve a sauce round. 

Boiled Haddock. — Ingredients. 
— Sufficient water to cover the fish, \ 
pound of salt to each gallon of water. 

Mode. — Scrape the fish, take out 
the inside, wash it thoroughly, and 



W6 



YOU ASK 



I L L T !•: r. 1 . 



lay it in a kettle, with enough water 
to cover it, adding salt in the above 
proportion. Simmer gently from fif- 
teen to twenty minutes, or rather 
more, should the fish be very large. 
For small haddocks, fasten the tails 
in their mouth, and put them into 
boiling water ; ten to fifteen min- 
utes will cook them. Serve with plain 
melted butter, or anchovy sauce. 

Time, large haddock, half an hour ; 
s.Taall, a quarter of an hour, or rather 
less. Seasonable from August to Feb- 
ruary. 

Lobster Salad. — Ingredients. — 
1 he7i lobster, lettuces, endive, small salad 
{whatever is in season), a little chopped 
beetroot, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a few slices 
of cucumber. For dressing, equal quan- 
tities of oil and vinegar, 1 teaspoon/ul of 
made mustard, the yolks of 2 eggs, Cay- 
enne and salt to taste, i teaspoon/ul of 
anchovy sauce. These ingredients should 
be mixed perfectly smooth, and form a 
creamy-looking sauce. 

Mode. — Wash the salad, and thor- 
oughly dry it by shaking it in a cloth. 
Cut up the lettuces and endive, pour 
the dressing on them, and lightly 
throw in the small salad. Mix all well 
together with the pickings from the 
body of the lobster ; pick the meat from 
the shell, cut it up into nice square 
pieces ; put half in the salad, the other 
half reserve for garnishing. 

To Boil a Lobster. — Time, half an 
hour. 

Boiling a lobster may be made a 
horrible operation if the advice we are 
about to give is not attended to ; and 
its cries in dying are said to be most 
painful. Happily, it is possible to kill 
It immediately. It is done thus : 

Put into a large kettle water enough 
to cover the lobster, with a quarter of 
a pound of salt to every gallon of water. 
When it boils fast put in the lobster, 
head first ; this is a little diflicult to 
achieve, as the lobster is not easy to 
hold thus over the hot steam, but we 
are sure any humane cook will do it. 
If the head goes in first it is killed in- 
stantly. Boil it briskly for an hour, 
then take it from the hot water with 



the tongs, and lay it to drain. Wipe off 
all the scum from it ; tie a little piece 
of butter in a cloth and rub it over 
with it. 

A lobster weighing a pound takes 
one hour to boil, others in like propor- 
tion, more or less. 

To Dress Lobsters. — When sent 
to the table, separate the body from 
the tail, remove the large claws, and 
crack them at each joint carefully, and 
split the tail down the middle with a 
sharp knife ; place the body upright in 
the centre of a dish on a napkin, and 
arrange the tail and claws on each side. 
Garnish it with double parsley. 

To Make Anchoviet. — Procure a 
quantity of sprats, as fresh as possible ; 
do not wash or wipe them, but just 
take them as caught, and for every 
peck of the fish, take two pounds of 
common salt, a quarter of a pound of 
bay salt, four pounds of saltpetre, two 
ounces of sal-prunella, and two-penny- 
worth of cochineal. Pound all these 
ingredients in a mortar, mixing them 
well together. Then take stone jars or 
small kegs, according to your quantity 
of sprats, and place a layer of the fish 
and a layer of the mixed ingredients 
alternately, until the pot is full ; then 
press hard down, and cover close for 
six mouths ; they will then be fit for use. 
We can vouch for the excellence and 
cheapness of the anchovies made in 
this manner. In fact, most of the 
fine Oorgona anchovies sold in th© 
oil and pickle shops are made in this 
or a similar manner, from British 
sprats. 

Boiled Mackerel. — Ingredients. 
— i pound of salt to each gallon of water. 

Mode. — Cleanse the inside of the 
fish thoroughly, and lay them in the 
kettle with sufiQcient water to cover 
them, with salt as above ; bring them 
gradually to boil, skim well, and sim- 
mer gently till done ; dish them on a 
hot napkin, heads and tails alter- 
nately, and garnish with fennel. Fen- 
nel sauce and plain melted butter are 
the usual accompaniments to boiled 
mackerel ; but caper or anchovy sauce 
is sometimes served with it. 



FISH. 



207 



THme, after the water boils, ten min- 
ates ; for large mackerel, allow more 
time. Seasonable from April to July, 

JVote. — When variety is desired, fillet the mack- 
erel, boil it, and pour over parsley and butter; 
6end some of this, besides, in a tureeu. 

To Choose Mackerel. — In choosing 
this fish, purchasers should, to a great 
extent, be regulated by the brightness 
of its appearance. If it have a trans- 
parent, silvery hue, the flesh is good ; 
but if it be red about the head, it is 
stale. 

Broiled Mackerel. — Ingredients. 

— Pepper and salt to taste; a small 
quantity of oil. 

Mode. — Mackerel should never be 
washed when intended to be broiled, 
but merely wipe very clean and dry, 
after taking out the gills and insides. 
Open the back, and put in a little pep- 
per, salt, and oil ; broil it over a clear 
fire, turn it over on both sides, and 
also on the back. When sufiiciently 
cooked, the flesh can be detached from 
the bone, which will be in about ten 
minutes for a small mackerel. Chop 
a little parsley, work it up in the but- 
ter, with pepper and salt to taste, and 
a squeeze of lemon-juice, and put it 
in the back. Serve before the butter 
is quite melted, with anchovy sauce in 
a tureen. 

Time, small mackerel ten minutes. 
Seasonable from April to July. 

Baked Mackerel. — Ingredients. 

— 4 middling-sized mackerel, a nice deli- 
cate forcemeat, 3 ounces of butter, pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Mode. — Clean the fish, take out the 
roes, fill up with forcemeat, and sew 
up the slit. Flour, and put them in a 
dish, heads and tails alternately, with 
the roes ; and between each layer put 
some little pieces of butter, and pepper 
and salt. Bake for half an hour, and 
either serve with plain melted butter 
or anchovy sauce. 

Tme, half an hour. Seasonable irova 
April to July. 

Note. — Baked mackerel may be dressed in the 
same way as baked herrings, and may also be 
•tewed ia wine. 



Pickled Mackerel. — Ingredients. 

— \2 peppercorns, 2 bay-kaves, ^ pint of 
vinegar, 4 mackerel. 

Mode. — Boil the mackerel as in the 
recipe, and lay them in a dish ; take 
half the liquor they were boiled in ; 
add as much vinegar, and the above 
proportion of peppercorns and bay- 
leaves ; boil this mixture for ten min- 
utes, and when cold, pour it over the 
fish. 

Boiled Salmon. — Ingredients.— 
6 ounces of salt to each gallon of water, 
sufficient water to cover the fish. 

Mode. — Scale and clean the fish, and 
be particular that no blood is left in- 
side ; lay it in the fish-kettle with suf- 
ficient cold water to cover it, adding 
salt in the above proportion. Bring it 
quickly to a boil, take off all the scum, 
and let it simmer gently till the fish is 
done, which will be when the meat 
separates easily from the bone. Ex- 
perience alone can teach the cook to 
fix the time for boiling fish ; but it is 
especially to be remembered, that it 
should never be underdressed, aa 
then nothing is more unwholesome. 
Neither let it remain in the kettle 
after it is sufiiciently cooked, as that 
would render it insipid, watery, and 
colorless. Drain it ; and if not wanted 
for a few minutes, keep it warm by 
means of warm cloths laid over it. 
Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with 
cut lemon and parsley, and send lob- 
ster or shrimp sauce and plain melted 
butter to table with it. A dish of 
dressed cucumber usually accompanies 
this fish. 

Time, eight minutes to each pound 
for large thick salmon ; six minutes 
for thin fish. Seasonable from April 
to August. 

Note. — Cut lemon should be put on the table 
with this fish ; and a little of the juice squeezed 
over it is considered by many persons a most 
agreeable addition. Boiled peas are also, by some 
connoisseurs, considered especially adapted to be 
served with salmon. 

To Choose Salmon. — To be goo I 

the belly should be firm and thick, 
which may readily be ascertained by 
feeling it with the thumb and finger. 



208 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



The circumstance of this fish having 
red gills, though given as a standing 
rule in most cookery-books, as a sign of 
its goodness, is not at all to be relied 
on, as this quality can be easily given 
ihem by art. 

Salmon Cutlets. — Cut the slices 
one inch thick, and season them with 
pepper and salt; butter a sheet of 
white paper, lay each slice on a sepa- 
rate piece, with their ends twisted : 
broil gently over a clear fire, and serve 
with anchovy or caper sauce. When 
higher seasoning is required, add a 
few chopped herbs and a little spice. 

Ti7ne, five to ten minutes. 

Pickled Salmon. —Ingredients. 
— Salmon, J ounce of whole pepper, ^ 
ounce of whole allspice, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, 2 bay-leaves, equal quantities of vin- 
egar and the liquor in vmich the fish was 
boiled. 

Mode. — After the fish comes from 
table, lay it in a nice dish with a cover 
to it, as it should be excluded from 
the air, and take away the bone; boil 
the liquor and vinegar with the other 
ingredients for ten minutes, and let it 
stand to get cold ; pour it over the sal- 
mon, and in twelve hours it will be fit 
for the table. 

Time, ten minutes. 

SHAD. — Fresh shad are good baked 
or broiled, but much the best broiled. 
For broiling, sprinkle on salt and 
pepper in the inside when cleaned, 
and let them remain a number of hours. 
If fresh, they may be kept eight or ten 
hours in a cool place. The spawn and 
liver are good fried or boiled. Salt 
shad for broiling should be soaked ten 
or twelve hours in cold water ; for 
boiling they need not be soaked only 
long enough to enable the scales to be 
removed easily, unless liked quite 
fresh ; if so, soak them in lukewarm 
water for an hour. 

Fried Fish. — After cleaning and 
wjushing the fish, lay them on a towel 
to absorb all the moisture. When 
thoroughly dried, rub over them flour 
or Indian meal ; use no salt to them, 
as it will prevent their browning well. 
If you have salt pork, fry a few slices ; 



take them up, and put in the fish, and 
fry them till quite brown on both 
sides. The fat should be quite hot 
when they are put in. If you have 
not pork, use lard or beef dripping* 
for frying ; but do not use butter, as it 
gives them a bad taste and dingy 
color. When you have taken up the 
fish, mix a little flour and water 
smoothly together, and stir it into the 
fat in which the fish was fried. Season 
the gravy with pepper and salt, and if 
you wish a very rich gravy, add a little 
butter, wine, and ketchup, or spices ; 
turn it, when it boils up, on the fish. 

To Bake Smelts. — Ingredients.— 
12 smelts, bread crumbs, J pound of fresh 
butter, 2 blades of pounded mace, salt and 
Cayenne to taste. 

Mode. — Wash, and dry the fish 
thoroughly in a cloth, and arrange 
them nicely in a flat baking disk. 
Cover them with fine bread crumbs, 
and place little pieces of butter all over 
them. Season and bake for fifteen 
minutes. Just before serving, add a 
squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish 
with fried parsley and cut lemon. 

Time, quarter of an hour. Season- 
able from October to May. 

To Choose Smelts.— When good, 
this fish is of a fine silvery appearance, 
and when alive, their backs are of a 
dark brown shade, which, after death, 
fades to a light fawn. They ought to 
have a refreshing fragrance, resem- 
bling that of a cucumber. 

To Fry Smelts. — Ingredients. — 
Egg and bread crumbs, a little flour, 
boiling lard. 

Afode. — Smelts should be very fresh, 
and not washed more than is necessary 
to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, 
lightly flour, dip them in egg, sprinkle 
over with very fine bread crumbs, 
and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a 
nice pale brown, and be careful not to 
take ofi" the light roughness of the 
crumbs, or their oeauty will be spoiled. 
Dry them before the fire on a drainer, 
and serve with plain melted butter. 
This fish is often used as a garnish. 

Time, five minutes. Seasonable from 
October to May. 



FISH. 



209 



CHOWDER. — Clean the fish, and 
cut it up into a number of slices. Fry 
six, or more, slices of pork, if the chow- 
der is to be a large one ; take them up, 
and put in the pork-fat, a layer of the 
fish, several bits of the fried pork, crack- 
ers that have been soaked tender in cold 
water, season with salt and pepper, and 
add onions and spices to it, if you like. 
This process repeat till you get in all the 
fish required for the chowder ; then 
turn in sufficient cold water to cover- 
the whole, and stew the fish from 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. When 
you have taken the fish out of the pot, 
thicken the gravy with mixed flour 
and water, add a little butter, and if 
you want it rich, stir in half a pint of 
white wine, or a large spoonful of ketch- 
up. Bass and cod are the best fish for 
chowder. Black fish and clams make 
tolerably good ones ; the hard part of 
the clams should be thrown away. 

Cod Sounds and Tongues. — Soak 
them in lukewarm water thrpe or four 
hours, then scrape ofi" the skin, cut 
them in two, and stew them in milk. 
Just before taking them up, stir in a 
little butter and flour. 

HALIBUT. — Is nice cut in slices, 
salted, and peppered, then broiled or 
fried. The fins and thick part are 
good boiled. 

Black Fish. — They are best boiled 
or fried. They will do to broil, but 
are not so good as when cooked in any 
other way. 

Fish Forcemeat Balls. — Chop a 
little uncooked fresh fish with salt 
pork, mix with them two raw eggs, a 
few fine bread crumbs, and season with 
pepper and spices, if you like. Do the 
mixture up into small balls, and fry 
them until brown. 

Fish Cakes. — Chop cold fresh fish 
that has been previously cooked with 
raw salt pork, mix with bread crumbs 
two or three raw eggs, season the mix- 
ture with salt and pepper, and mould it 
up into small cakes, and fry till brown 
in lard. Cold salt codfish may be 
chojpped with potatoes, moistened with 
a little water, a little melted butter 
added, and moulded into small cakes. 
14 



Flour the hands, to prevent thera 
sticking. Have pork-fat in your fry- 
ing-pan quite hot, then put them in, 
and fry till brown on both sides. This 
is an easy way of making them, when 
you have cooked potatoes; but they 
are the best to have the potatoes fresh 
boiled, and mashed, instead of being 
chopped ; mix them with the fish and 
add butter and water to moisten the 
whole ; then take up a portion of the 
fish in a tablespoon, mash it down 
compactly with a knife, and scrape it- 
out with the knife into the frying-pan, 
so as to form a small cake. This re- 
peat until you get the pan full. The 
fat for them, as well as for all other 
kinds of fish, should be quite hot when 
they are put in, or they will soak up 
the fat and be greasy, and not brown. 

SCOLLOPS. — Boil them, and take 
them out of the shells ; when boiled, 
pick out the hearts and throw the rest 
away, as the heart is the only part 
that is fit to eat. They are good 
pickled like oysters after boiling, or 
fried. Dip them in flour, and fry them 
brown. They are also good stewed, 
with a little water, salt, and pepper ; add 
butter when you remove from the fire. 

TROUT.— These, as well as all other 
kinds of fresh fish, are apt to have an 
earthy taste. It can be removed by 
soaking them in salt and water for a 
few minutes after cleaning. They 
may be boiled, broiled, or fried ; the 
small ones are the best fried. They 
are also good stewed, with a little 
water and bits of salt pork. 

CLAMS. — Wash and put them in 
a pot, with enough water to prevent 
their burning at the bottom of the pot. 
Heat them till the shells open, then 
take them out and warm them up, 
with a little of the clam broth; season 
with salt and pepper, add butter when 
you take them up, have a couple of 
slices of buttered toast in the dish 
with the clams, putting in enough of 
the broth to soak the toast. Long 
clams, if large, are nice taken out of 
the shells and broiled. 

Clam Pancakes. — Mix flour and 
milk together, so as to form a thick 



210 



YOi; ASK ! — i'LL TEI.L ! 



batter ; to each piut of the milk put a 
couple of eggs and a few clams. If 
they are quite small, stew them and 
put them in whole ; if large, take them 
out of the shells, without stewing, and 
chop them ; season tlie batter with 
salt and pepper, and drop it, by the 
large spoonful, into iiot fat. Some 
cooks use the clam liquor, instead of 
milk, for pancakes, but it does not 
make them as light as the milk. 

EELS. — If small, are the best fried; 
if large, split them open, salt, and pep- 
per, and cut them into pieces of about 
a finger's length. Let them remain 
several hours before broiling. 

Stewed Oysters. — Strain the 
liquor, and rinse off the bits of shell 
that adhere to the oyster. Heat the 
liquor with the oysters. If there is 
not much of it, a little water may be 
added. As soon as scalding hot, turn 
them on to buttered toast, and season 
with salt and pepper. They should 
not be allowed to boil, and no salt 
added to them till cooked ; if so, they 
will shrink and be hard. Oysters 
should be eaten as soon as cooked. 

Fried Oysters. — Take those that 
are large, dip them in beaten eggs, 
then in flour, or fine bread crumbs, 
and fry them in lard. They are also 
good dipped into a batter like that for 
oyster pancakes, and then fried. They 
are a nice garnish for fish. They can 
be kej)t for several months, if fried 
when first caught, seasoned well with 
salt and pepper, then corked up tight 
in a bottle. Whenever they are to be 
eaten, warm them in a little water. 

Oyster Pancakes. — Mix equal 
quantities of oyster juice and milk, 
and to a pint of the mixed liquor put 
a pint of wheat flour, a couple of 
beaten eggs, a little salt, and a few of 
the oysters. Drop by the large spoon- 
ful into hot lard. 

Oyster Pie, — Line a deep pie-plate 
with pie-crust, fill it with dry pieces 
of bread, cover it wiih nice pastry, and 
bake it in a quick oven till of a light 
brown. Have the oysters stewed, and 
seasoned just as the pastry is baked. 
Take off the upper crust, remove the 



bread, aud put in the oysters. Cover 
with the crust, and serve up while hot. 

Scolloped Oysters. — Pound crack- 
ers or rusked bread fine. Then butter 
scolloped shell or small tinpans, put 
in alternate layers of the crumbs and 
oysters, having a layer of the crumbs 
on the top. Season them with salt 
and pepper, and add a little butter, 
and enough oyster juice to moisten 
the whole. Bake them till brown. 

Apple Sauce for Geese, Pork, etc. 
— Ingredients. — G good-sized apples, 
si/ted sugar to taste, a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, water. 

Mode. — Pare, core, and quarter the 
apples, and throw them into cold water 
to preserve their whiteness. Put them 
in a saucepan, with sufl5cient water to 
moisten them, and boil till soft enough 
to pulp. Beat them up, adding sugar 
to taste, and a small piece of butter. 
This quantity is sufficient for a good- 
sized tureen. 

Time, according to the apples, abou*^^ 
three-quarters of an hour. This quan- 
tity is sufiicient for a goose or couple 
of ducks. Seasonable from August to 
March. 

Bread Sauce, to serve with Roast 
Turkey, Fowl, Game, etc. 

Ingredients. — 1 pint of milk, f 
of a pound of the crumbs of a stale loaf, 
1 onion, pounded mace, Cayenne, and 
salt to taste, 1 ounce of butter. 

Mode. — Peel and quarter the onion, 
and simmer it in the milk till perfectly 
tender. Break the bread, which should 
be stale, into small pieces, carefully 
picking out anj' hard outside pieces ; 
put it in a very clean saucepan, strain 
the milk over it, cover it up, and let it 
remain for an hour to soak. Now beat 
it up with a fork very smoothly, add a 
seasoning of pounded mace, Cayenne, 
and salt, with one ounce of butter; 
give the whole one boil, and serve. To 
enrich this sauce, a small quantity of 
cream may be added just before send- 
ing it to table. 

Time, altogether, one hour and three- 
quarters. Sufficient to serve with a 
turkey, pair of fowls, or brace of par- 
tridges. 



SAUCES. 



211 



Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton.— 

Ingredients. — ^ pint of melted butter, 
3 tablespoonfuls of capers or nasturtiums, 

1 tablespoonful of their liquor. 

Mode. — Chop the capers twice or 
thrice, and add thein, with their liquor, 
to half a pint of melted butter, made 
very smoothly ; keep stirring well ; let 
the sauce just simmer, and serve in a 
tureen. Pickled nasturtium pods are 
fine. 

Melted Butter. — Ingredients. — 
\ pound of butter, a dessertspoonful of 
flour, a teacupful of water, salt to taste. 

Mode. — Cut the butter up into small 
pieces, put it into a saucepan, dredge 
over the flour, and add the water and a 
seasoning of salt ; stir it one way con- 
stantly till the whole of the ingredients 
are melted and thoroughly blended. 
Let it just boil, when it is ready to 
serve. If the butter is to be melted 
with cream, use the same quantity as 
of water, but omit the flour ; keep stir- 
ring it, but do not allow it to boil. 

Ti77ie, one minute to simmer. 

Melted Butter made with Milk.— 
Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful of fiour, 

2 ounces of butter, \ pint of milk, a few 
grains of salt. 

Mode. — Mix the butter and flour 
smoothly together on a plate; put it 
into a lined saucepan, and pour in the 
milk. Keep stirring it one way over a 
sharp fire ; let it boil quickly for a 
minute or two, and it is ready to serve. 
This is a very good foundation for 
onion, lobster, or oyster sauce, and is 
the melted butter we recommend in 
preference to either of the preceding : 
using milk instead of water makes the 
preparation look so much whiter and 
more delicate. 

Time, altogether, ten minutes. 

Egg Sauce for Salt Fish.— Ingre- 
dients. — 4 eggs, ^ pint of melted but- 
ter, when liked a very little lemon- 
Juice. 

Mode. — Boil the eggs until quite 
hard, which will be in about twenty 
minutes, and put them into cold water 
for half an hour. Strip off" the shells, 
chop the eggs into small pieces, not, 
however, too fine. Make the melted 



butter very smoothly ; when boiling, 
stir in the eggs, and serve very hot. 
Lemon-juice may be added at pleasure. 
Time, twenty minutes to boil the 
eggs. /Sufficient for three or four pounds 
of fish. 

J^ole. — Wheii a thicker saace is required, use 
one or two more eggs to the same quantity of 
melted butter. 

Mint Sauce, to serve with Roast 
Lamh. — Ingredients. — 4 dessert- 
spoonfuls of chopped mint, 2 dessert- 
spoonfuls of pounded white sugar, i pint 
of vinegar. 

Mode. — Wash the mint, which should 
be young and fresh-gathered, free from 
grit ; pick the leaves from the stalks, 
mince them very fine, and put them 
into a tureen ; add the sugar and vin- 
egar, and stir till the former is dis- 
solved. This sauce is better by being 
made two or three hours before wanted 
for table, as the vinegar then becomes 
impregnated with the flavor of the 
mint. By many persons, the above 
proportion of sugar would not be con- 
sidered sufiicient ; but as tastes vary, 
we have given the quantity which we 
have found to suit the general palate. 

Sufficient to serve with a middling- 
sized joint of lamb. 

Aote. — Where green mint is scarce and not ob- 
tainable, mint vinegar may be substituted for it, 
and will be found very acceptable in early spring. 

Oyster Sauce, to serve with Fish, 
Boiled Poultry, etc. — Ingredients. 

— 3 dozen oysters, ^ pint of melted but- 
ter, made with milk. 

Mode. — Open the oysters carefully, 
and save their liquor ; strain it into a 
clean saucepan (a lined one is best) , 
put in the oysters, and let them just 
come to the boiling-point, when they 
should look plump. Take them off 
the fire immediately, and put the 
whole into a basin. Strain the liquor 
from them, mix with it sufficient milk 
to make half a pint altogether. When 
the melted butter is ready and very 
smooth, put in the oysters. Set it by 
the side of the fire to get thoroughly 
hot, but do not allow it to boil, or the 
oysters will immediately harden. Using 



212 



YOU ask! — t'i.l tell! 



cream instead of milk makes this sauce 
extremely delicious. When liked, add 
a seasoning of Cayenne, or anchovy 
sauce ; but, as we have before stated, a 
plain sauce should be plain, and not 
be overpowered by highly-flavored es- 
sences ; therefore we recommend that 
the above directions be implicitly fol- 
lowed, and no seasoning added. 

Sufficient for six persons. Never al- 
low fewer than six oysters to one per- 
son, unless the party is very large. 
Seasonable from September to April. 

Parsley and Butter, to serve with 
Calf's Head, Boiled Fowls, etc. — 
Ingredients. — 2 tablespoonfuls of 
minced parsley, J ^n'n^ of melted butter. 

Mode, — Put into a saucepan a small 
quantity of water, slightly salted, and 
when it boils, throw in a good bunch 
of parsley which has been previously 
washed and tied together in a bunch ; 
let it boil for five minutes, drain it, 
mince the leaves very fine, and put the 
above quantity in a tureen ; pour over 
it half pint of smoothly made melted 
butter ; stir once, that the ingredients 
may be thoroughly mixed, and serve. 

Time, five minutes to boil the pars- 
ley. Sufficient for one large fowl ; al- 
low rather more for a pair. Seasonable 
at any time. 

White Onion Sauce for Boiled 
Rabbits, Roast Shoulder of Mutton, 
etc. — Ingredients. — 9 large onions 
or 12 middle-sized ones, 1 pint melted 
butter made with milk, J teaspoonful of 
salt. 

Mode. — Peel the onions and put 
them into water, to which a little salt 
has been added, to preserve their 
whiteness, and let them remain for 
a quarter of an hour, then put them 
in a stewpan, cover them with water, 
and let them boil one hour, or until 
tender, and if the onions should be 
very strong, change the water after 
they have been boiling a quarter of an 
hour. Train them thoroughly, chop 
them, and rub them through a sieve. 
Make one pint of melted butter, and 
when that boils, i)Ut in the onions, with 
a seasoning of salt ; stir it till it sim- 
mers, when it will be ready to serve. 



Sauce for Cold Meat, Fish, or 
Salad. — Boil a couple of eggs three 
minutes, mix them with half a teacup 
of salad oil, or melted butter, half a 
cup of vinegar, a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, a little salt and pepper. 
Add, if you like, a large spoonful of 
ketchup. 

Wine Sauce for Venison or Mut- 
ton. — Warm half a pint of the drip- 
pings, and mix together a couple of 
teaspoonfuls of flour, with a little 
water, so that it will be free from 
lumps, and stir into it the drippings, 
when boiling. Season the gravy with 
salt, pepper, and cloves, and stir in, 
just before removing from the fire, a 
gill of white wine. 

Rice Sauce. — Boil half a teacup 
of rice with an onion, and a blade of 
mace, till the rice is quite soft; if it 
has not then absorbed the water, turn 
it ofl", stir in tv/o-thirds of a pint of 
milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and strain 
the sauce. This is a nice accompani- 
ment to game. 

Cranberry Sauce. — Stew the cran- 
berries till soft, with a little water; 
when tender, add sugar sufficient to 
sweeten ; let it scald in well. Strain 
it, if you like ; it is good without 
straining. 

Tomato Sauce. — Time, one hour 
and five minutes. 

Ingredients. — 6 tomatoes, i an 
ounce of celery, 1 ounce of butter, 1 ounce 
of bacon, J an onion, a bay-leaf a bunch 
of thyme, a little salt, pepper, Cayenne, 
J a pint of broth, and a little flour. 

Mode. — Take out the seeds and re- 
move the stalks from six tomatoes, put 
them into a stewpan with half an ounce 
of celery, one ounce of butter, one 
ounce of bacon, half an onion cut into 
slices, a bay-leaf, a bunch of thyme, 
pepper, salt, and Cayenne. Stew it 
gently until tender, then stir in the 
flour, moisten with half a pint of broth, 
boil it up for five or six minutes, strain 
it through a sieve, and then put it back 
into the stewpan to simmer until 
rather thick. Serve it with meat or 
poultry. 

Tomato Ketchup. — To each gallon 



SAUCES. 



213 



of ripe tomatoes, pour four table- 
spoonfuls of salt, five of black pepper, 
three of ground mustard, half a large 
spoonful of allspice, the same of 
-cloves, simmer the whole slowly to- 
gether, with a little water at the bot- 
tom of the stewpan to prevent their 
burning. Let them stew slowly for 
three hours, then strain through a 
sieve. When cold, bottle, and cork, 
and seal them ; keep them in a cool 
cellar. The ketchup should be made 
in tin, and as late in the season as 
practicable, in order to have it keep 
well. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — They should be 
fully ripe; and to make them skineasily, 
turn on boiling water, and let them 
remain in it four or five minutes. When 
peeled, put them in a stewpan. If 
not quite ripe and juicy, put in a very 
little water to prevent their burning. 
When they have stewed a few minutes, 
they are improved by turning ofi" part 
of the juice. Season them with salt, 
pepper, and sugar, in the proportion 
of a couple of teaspoonfuls of sugar to 
Jialf a peck of tomatoes. Stew them 
half an hour, then turn them on to 
buttered toast. They are considered 
•very nice by epicures cooked as fol- 
lows : Skin and lay them in a deep 
■dish, with alternate layers of bread 
<;rumbs ; season each layer with salt, 
pepper, a little sugar, a small bit 
•of butter, and add cloves if you like. 
Have a layer of bread crumbs on top, 
and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Tomato Ketchup. — Take good solid 
tomatoes, wash clean and drain all 
the water off them, cut up and mash 
into a kettle, boil till they are in rags, 
then rub them through a cullender, 
•crushing them through till nothing but 
the skin remains, then strain through 
a wire sieve, leaving nothing but the 
seeds, then put 3 half pints salt, 4 
ounces mustard, 3 ounces pepper, ^ 
•ounce red pepper, 4 nutmegs grated, 
ground cinnamon and ginger each 2 
•ounces, whole cloves and allspice each 
2 ounces, put in a muslin bag with J 
ounce mace, put in the spices cold and 
stir till it thickens ; boil 4 hours, then 



add 3 pints (or 4 if very thick) ti tlie 
very best cider vinegar, boil 4 hours 
more on a moderate fire, clean the 
bottles well before putting in the 
ketchup. 

Mushroom Ketchup.— Put a layer 
of fresh mushrooms in a deep dish, 
sprinkle a little salt over them, add 
successive layers of mushrooms and 
salt till you get them all into the dish. 
Let them remain a number of days, 
then mash them fine, and to each quart 
put a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a 
teaspoonful of black pepper, and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of cloves. 
Turn the whole into a stone jar, set it 
into a pot of hot water, and boil it a 
couple of hours. Strain without 
squeezing the mushrooms. Boil the 
juice a quarter of an hour, and strain 
it well. When cold, bottle, cork, and 
seal up tight, and keep it in a cool 
place. 

Essence of Mushroom.— This deli- 
cate relish is made by sprinkling a 
little salt over either flap or button 
mushrooms ; three hours after, mash 
them, next day strain off the liquor 
that will flow from them, put it into 
a stewpan, and boil it till it is reduced 
one half. 1*" will not keep long, but is 
preferable to any of the ketchups con- 
taining spices, etc., to preserve them, 
which overpowers the flavor of the 
mushrooms. An artificial mushroom 
bed will supply these all the year 
round. 

Hot Sauce, resembling Worces- 
tershire Sauce. — Time, ten days. 

Ingredients. — J of an ounce of 
Cayenne pepper, 1 quart of vinegar, 2 
tablespoonfuls of soy, 3 cloves of garlic, 
5 anchovies, 3 cloves of shallots. 

Mode. — Mix well and rub through 
a sieve three-quarters of an ounce of 
Cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls 
of soy, three cloves of garlic pounded, 
five anchovies, bruised fine, and three 
cloves of shallots pounded, add one 
quart of vinegar. Strain, and keep it 
corked up for ten days, then bottle it 
up for use. It can be strained or not, 
as preferred. 

Gooseberry Sauce. — Take fruit, 



214 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



just ripe, pick off the tops and stems, 
and weigh an equal quantity of sugar 
to the fruit, dividing the sugar into 
two equal portions. Make a syrup of 
one portion, and put the gooseberries 
into it, over the fire ; let them re- 
main till they are transparent, then 
remove them, and make a syrup of 
the reserved sugar, adding to it the 
syrup of the gooseberries, gently dip- 
ping it off. Let it boil till thick and 
rich, and then pour it over the fruit. 
The fruit, by this process, will be less 
tough, and keep its flavor better than 
if cooked longer. 

Bread Sauce for Roast Turkey, 
or Game. — l''ime, one hour and a 
half. 

Ingredients. — 1 pint of milk, 
breakfastcupful of stale bread, 1 onion, 
a little mace, Cayenne, and salt, 1 ounce 
of butter. 

Mode. — Peel and slice an onion, 
and simmer it in a pint of new milk 
until tender, break the bread into 
pieces, and put it into a stewpan. 
Strain the hot milk over it, cover it 
close, and let it soak for an hour. 
Then beat it up smooth with a fork, 
add the pounded mace, Cayenne, salt, 
and an ounce of butter. Boil it up, 
serve it in a tureen. The onion must 
be taken out before the milk is poured 
over the bread. 

Chestnut Sauce for Turkey; or 
Fowls. — Time, one hour and thirty- 
five minutes. 

Ingredients. — J a pint of veal 
stock, J a pound of chestnuts, peel of ^ 
a lemon, a cupful of cream or milk, a 
very little Cayenne and salt. 

Mode. — Remove the dark shell of 
the chestnuts, and scald them until 
the inner skin can be easily taken off. 
Then put them into a stewpan with 
the stock, the lemon-peel cut very 
thin, and a very little Cayenne pepper 
and salt. Let it simmer until the 
chestnuts are quite soft. Rub or press 
it through a sieve, add the seasoning 
and cream, and let it simmer for a few 
minutes, stirring it constantly, but 
taking care it does not boil. 

Oyster Ketchup. — Take fine, fresh 



oysters ; wash them in their own liquor, 
strain it, pound them in a marble mor- 
tar ; to a pint of oysters add a pint of 
sherry ; boil them up, and add an 
ounce of salt, two drams of pounded 
mace, and one of Cayenne ; let it just 
boil up again, skim it, and rub it 
through a sieve ; and when cold, bottle 
it, cork well, and seal it down. 

Horseradish Vinegar. — Pour a 
quart of best vinegar on three ounces 
of scraped horseradish, an ounce of 
minced shallot, and one dram of Cay- 
enne ; let it stand a week, and you will 
have an excellent relish for cold beef, 
salads, etc., costing scarcely anything. 
Horseradish is in the highest perfection 
about November. 

Mint Vinegar. — Put into a wide- 
mouthed bottle fresh nice clean mint 
leaves enough to fill it loosely ; then 
fill up the bottle with good vinegar, and 
after it has been corked close for two 
or three weeks, it is to be poured off 
clear into another bottle, and kept well 
corked for use. Serve with lamb when 
mint cannot be obtained. 

Cress Vinegar. — L)ry and pound 
half an ounce of cress seed (such as is 
sown in the garden with mustard), 
pour upon it a quart of the best vine- 
gar, let it steep for ten days, shaking it 
up every day. This is very strongly 
flavored with cress, and for salads, and 
cold meats, etc., it is a great favorite 
with many ; the quart of sauce costs 
only a penny more than the vinegar. 
Celery vinegar may be made in the 
same manner. 

Cheap and Good Vinegar. — Tc 
elglit gallons of clear rain water, adf 
three quarts of molasses ; turn the 
mixture into a clean tight cask, shake 
it well two or three times, and add 
three spoonfuls of good yeast, or two 
yeast cakes ; place the cask in a warm 
place, and in ten or fifteen days add a 
sheet of common wrapping paj)er,. 
smeared with molasses, and torn into 
narrow strips, and you will have good 
vinegar. The paper is necessary to 
form the " mother," or life of the 
vinegar. 

Good Cider Vinegar. — Take ten 



SAUCES. 



215 



gallons of apple juice fresh from the 
press, and suffer it to ferment fully, 
which may be in about two weeks, or 
sooner if the weather is warm ; and 
then add eight gallons of like juice, 
new, for producing a second fermenta- 
tion ; in two weeks more add another 
like new quantity, for producing a 
third fermentation. This third fermen- 
tation is material. Now stop the bung- 
hole with an empty bottle, with the 
neck downward, and expose it to the 
sun for some time. When the vinegar 
is come, draw off one half into a vine- 
gar cask, and set it in a cool place 
above ground, for use when clear. 
With the other half in the first cask, 
proceed to make more vinegar in the 
same way. Thus one cask is to make 
in, the other to use from. When mak- 
ing the vinegar, let there be a moder- 
ate degree of heat, and free access of 
external air. 

Oyster Powder. — Open the oysters 
carefully, so as not to cut them, except 
in dividing the gristle which adheres 
to the shells. Put them into a mortar, 
and when you have got as many as 
you can conveniently pound at once, 
add about two drams of salt to a dozen 
oysters ; pound them, and rub them 
through the back of a hair sieve, and 
put them into a mortar again (pre- 
viously thoroughly dried) with as 
much tlour as will convert them into a 
paste ; roll this paste out several times, 
and lastly, flour it, and roll it out the 
thickness of half a crown, and cut it 
into pieces about one inch square ; lay 
them in a Dutch oven, where they will 
dry so gently as not to get burned; turn 
them every half hour, and when they 
begin to dry, crumble them. They will 
take about four hours to dry. Pound 
them, sift them, and put them into dry 
bottles; cork and seal them. Three 
dozen of oysters require seven ounces 
and a half of flour to make them into 
a paste weighing eleven ounces, and 
when dried, six and a half ounces. To 
make half a pint of sauce, put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan with 
three drams of oyster powder, and six 
tablespoonfuls of milk; set it on a 



slow fire, stir it till it boils, and 8ea» 
son it with salt. As a sauce, it is ex- 
cellent for fish, fowls, or rump steaks. 
Sprinkled on bread and butter, it 
makes a good sandwich. 

Apple Sauce. — Pare and core three 
good-sized baking apples, put them 
into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water ; cover 
the saucepan close, and set it on a trivet 
over a slow fire a couple of hours be- 
fore dinner, — some apples will take a 
long time stewing, others will be ready 
in a quarter of an hour. When the 
apples are done enough, pour off the 
water, let them stand a few minutes to 
get dry ; then beat them up with a 
fork, with a bit of butter about as big 
as a nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar : some persons add 
lemon-peel, grated or minced fine, or 
boil a small piece with the apples. 
Many persons are fond of apple sauce 
with cold pork. 

Horseradish Powder. — The time 
to make this is during November and 
December. Slice the horseradish the 
thickness of a shilling, and lay it to dry 
very gradually in a slow oven (a strong 
heat soon evaporates its flavor) ; when 
dry enough, pound it and bottle it. 

Curry Powder {a genuine Indian 
recipe). — Turmeric, coriander, black 
pepper, four ounces each ; fenugreek, 
three ounces ; ginger, two ounces ; 
cummin seed, ground rice, one ounce 
each ; Cayenne pepper, cardamums, 
half an ounce each. 

Sage and Onion, or Goose Stuffing 
Sauce. — Chop very fine an ounce of 
onion and half an ounce of green sage 
leaves, put them into a stewpan with 
four spoonfuls of water, simmer gently 
for ten minutes, then jjut in a tea- 
spoonful of pepper and salt, and one 
ounce of fine bread crumbs ; mix well 
together ; then pour to it a quarter of 
a pint of broth, or gravy, or melted 
butter; stir well together, and simmer 
it a few minutes longer. This is a 
very relishing sauce for roast pork, 
poultry, geese, or ducks, or green peas. 
Beef Gravy Sauce {or Brovm 
Sauce for Ragout, Game, Poultry, Fish^ 



216 



YOU ask! — I'l.i. tell! 



stc.) — If you want gravy, furnish a 
bhick and well-tinned stewpan with a 
thin slice of fat ham or bacon, or an 
ounce of butter, and a middling-sized 
onion ; on this lay a pound of nice 
juicy gravy beef (as the object in 
making gravy is to extract the nutri- 
tious qualities of the meat, it must be 
beaten so as to reduce the containing 
vessels, and scored to render the sur- 
face more susceptible to the action of 
the water) ; cover the stewpan, set it 
on a slow fire ; when the meat begins 
to brown, turn it about, and let it get 
filightly browned (but take care it is 
not at all burnt) ; then pour in a pint 
and a half of boiling water, set the 
pan on the fire ; when it boils, care- 
fully catch the scum, and then put in 
a crust of bread toasted brown (don't 
jurn it), a sprig of winter savory, or 
iemon, thyme, and parsley, a roll of 
thin-cut lemon-peel, a dozen berries 
of allspice, and a dozen of black pep- 
per; cover the stewpan close, let it 
stew very gently for about two hours, 
then strain it through a sieve into a 
basin. If you wish to thicken it, set a 
clean stewpan over a slow fire, with 
about an ounce of butter in it ; when 
it is melted, dredge into it (by degrees) 
as much flour as will dry it up, stir- 
ring them intimately; when thoroughly 
mixed, pour in a little of the gravy, 
stir it well together, and add the re- 
mainder by degrees ; set it over the 
fire, let it simmer gently for fifteen or 
twenty minutes longer, and skim oflT 
the fat, etc., as it rises ; when it is 
about as thick as cream, squeeze it 
through a tamis or fine sieve, and you 
will have a fine rich brown sauce, at 
a very moderate expense, and without 
much trouble. Observe — If you wish 
to make it still more relishing, — for 
poultry, you may pound the liver with 
a piece of butter, rub it through a 
sieve, and stir it into the sauce when 
you put in the thickening. 

Chutney Sauce. — One pound of 
salt, one pound of mustard seed, one 
pound of .stoned raisins, one pound of 
brown sugar, twelve ounces of garlic, 
Hix ounces of Cayenne pepper, two 



quarts of unripe gooseberries, two 
quarts of best vinegar. The mustard 
seed gently dried and bruised ; the 
sugar made into a syrup with a pint 
of the vinegar ; the gooseberries dried 
and boiled in a quart of the vinegar; 
the garlic to be well bruised in a mor- 
tar. When cold, gradually mix the 
whole in a large mortar, and with the 
remaining vinegar thoroughly amalga- 
mate them. To be tied down close. 
The longer it is kept the better it will 
become. 

Wow Wow Sauce. — Chop parsley 
leaves fine ; take two or three pickled 
cucumbers, or walnuts, and divide into 
small squares, and set them by in read- 
iness ; put into a saucepan butter as 
big as an egg ; when it is melted, stir 
into it a tablespoonful of fine flour, 
and half a pint of the broth of the 
beef; add a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
one of mushroom ketchup, or port 
wine, or both, and a teaspoonful of 
made mustard ; simmer together till 
it is as thick as you wish, put in the 
parsley and pickles to get warm, and 
pour it over the beef, or send it up in 
a sauce-tureen. This is excellent for 
stewed or boiled beef. 

GARNISHES.— Parsley is the most 
universal garnish for all kinds of cold 
meat, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, and 
so forth. Horseradish is the garnish 
for roast beef, and for fish in general ; 
for the latter, slices of lemon are some- 
times laid alternately with the horse- 
radish. 

Slices of lemon for boiled fowl, tur- 
key, and fish, and for roast veal and 
calf's head. 

Carrot in slices for boiled beef, hot 
or cold. 

Barberries, fresh or preserved, for 
game. 

Red beet-root sliced for cold meat, 
boiled beef, and salt fish. 

Fried smelts as garnish for turbot. 

Fried sausages or forcemeat balls are 
placed round turkey, capon, or fowl. 

Lobster coral and parsley round 
boiled fish. 

Fennel for mackerel and salmon, 
either fresh or pickled. 



RELISHES. 



217 



Currant jelly for game, also for cus- 
tard or bread pudding. 

Seville orange in slices for wild 
ducks, widgeons, teal, and so forth. 

Mint, either with or without parsley, 
for roast lamb, either hot or cold. 

Pickled gherkins, capers, or onions, 
for some kinds of boiledmeat and stews. 

Relish for Chops, etc. — Pound fine 
an ounce of black pepper, and half an 
ounce of allspice, with an ounce of 
salt, and half an ounce of scraped 
horseradish, and the same of shallots, 
peeled and quartered ; put these into a 
pint of mushroom ketchup, or walnut 
pickle, and let them steep for a fort- 
night, and then strain it. Observe. — A 
teaspoonful or two of this is generally 
an acceptable addition, mixed with the 
gravy usually sent up for chops and 
steaks ; or added to thick melted butter. 

Forcemeat for Veal, Turkeys, 
Fowls, Hare, etc. — Ingredients. — 
2 ounces of ham or lean bacon, ^ pound 
of suet, the rind of ^ a lemon, 1 tea- 
spoonful of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful 
of minced sweet herbs, salt, Cayenne, and 



pounded mace to taste, 6 ounces of bread 
crumbs, 2 eggs. 

Mode. — Shred the ham or bacon, 
chop the suet, lemon-peel, and herbs, 
taking particular care that all be very 
finely minced ; add a seasoning to 
taste, of salt, Cayenne, and mace, and 
blend all thoroughly together with the 
bread crumbs, before wetting. Now 
beat and strain the eggs ; work these 
up with the other ingredients, and the 
forcemeat will be ready for use. When 
it is made into balls, fry of a nice 
brown, in boiling lard, or put them on 
a tin and bake for half an hour in a 
moderate oven. As we have stated 
before, no one flavor should predom- 
inate greatly, and the forcemeat should 
be of sufficient body to cut with a 
knife, and yet not dry and heavy. For 
very delicate forcemeat, it is advisable 
to pound the ingredients together be- 
fore binding with the egg; but for 
ordinary cooking, mincing very finely 
answers the purpose. 

Sufficient for a turkey, a moderate- 
sized fillet of veal, or a hare. 



THE ART OF CARVING. 



How TO Perform an Embarrassing Task Gracefully— Instructions 

WHICH WILL BE FOUND PROFITABLE TO THE MaN OP THE HoUSE. 



The Art of Carving.— Ceremonies 
OF THE Table, etc. — A dinner-table 
should be well laid, well lighted, and 
always afford a little spare room. It is 
better to invite one friend less in num- 
ber, than to destroy the comfort of the 
whole party. 

The Laying out of a Table must 
greatly depend uj^on the nature of the 
dinner or supper, the taste of the host, 
the description of the company, and 
the appliances possessed. It would be 
useless, therefore, to lay down specific 
rules. The whiteness of the table- 
cloth, the clearness of glass, the polish 
of plate, and the judicious distribution 
of ornamental groups of fruits and 
flowers, are matters deserving the ut- 
most attention. 

A Sideboard will greatly relieve a 
crowded table, upon which may be 
placed many things incidental to the 
successive courses, until they are re- 
quired. 

A Bill of Fare at large dinner 
parties, where there are several courses, 
should be provided, neatly inscribed 
upon small tablets, and distributed 
about the table, that the diners may 
kuow what there is to come. 

Napkins should be folded neatly. 
The French method, which is very 
easy, of folding the napkin like a fan, 
placing it in a glass, and spreading out 
the upper part, is very pleasing. But 
the English method of folding it like 
a slipper, and placing the bread 
inside of it, is convenient as well as 
neat. 

Bread should be cut the last thing 
after the table is laid. If cut too early 
218 



it becomes dry. A tray should be ])ro- 
vided, in which there should be a 
further supply of bread, new, stale, 
and brown. 

Carving-knives should be "put in 
edge" before the dinner commences, 
for nothing irritates a good carver, or 
perplexes a bad one, more than a knife 
which refuses to perform its office ; and 
there is nothing more annoying to the 
company than to see the carving-knife 
dancing to and fro over the steel 
while the dinner is getting cold, and 
their appetites are being exhausted by 
delay. 

Joints that require Carving 
should be set upon dishes sufficiently 
large. The space of the table may be 
economired by setting upon small 
dishes those things that do not re- 
quire carving. 

The Carver should have Plenty 
OF Room, however closely the diners 
are compelled to sit together. 

The Vegetables, if the table is 
very crowded, may be jjlaced upon the 
sideboard, and handed round by the 
waiters. 

Geese, Turkeys, Poultry, Suck- 
ing-pigs, etc., may be carved before 
BEING SENT TO TABLE ; especially in 
those cases where the whole or the 
principal part of such dishes is likely 
to be consumed. 

The Carver should supply the 
platen, and the waiter hand them 
round, instead of putting the question 
to each guest as to which part he pre- 
fers, and then striving to serve him 
with it, to the prejudice of others 
present. 



THE OEDER OF DISHES. 



219 



Ladies should be assisted before 
gentlemen. 

Nothing detracts from the dignity 
of a host so much as inefficient carv- 
ing; and there are few things that 
make a guest appear so small as being 
unable to offer to assist the hostess in 
manipulating a joint. 

There are some people who should 
never attempt to carve; for instance, 
those who are' weak in their wrists, or 
those who are short-sighted. In the 
one case, failure is inevitable; in the 
other, nothing looks worse than to see 
a man peering in a purblind manner 
into a dish. 

Carving requires a large amount of 
constant practice, in order to arrive at 
proficiency ; and the earlier the practice 
is commenced, the easier will the tyro 
find it to be. Boys on leaving school, 
though of course not expected to take 
the head of the table, should always 
be requested to help some dish — be- 
ginning with some easy dish, such as 
a ham or tongue, and proceeding by 
degrees to the dismemberment of a 
fowl or turkey. 

There are two departments in pre- 
siding at table — namely, carving and 
helping. The former is the result of 
skilful manip alation ; the other of 
careful discrimination. The proficient 
in the first-named art will be able to 
Cfirefully anatomize any joint that is 
placed before him ; whilst the adept 
in the second will be able to select the 
tit-bits in a proper proportion of each 
concomitant of the dish for the grati- 
fication of his guest. 

With regard to carving, we may 
state, in a few words, that there are 
only two ways — namely, a right 
and a wrong way. No treatise ever 
written on the subject could prove 
that there were more ways than one 
of cutting a round of beef or dissect- 
ing a partridge. 

Our object in this work is to make 
everything as plain as possible. The 
great drawback in the majority of 
manuals on carving is the elaboration 
and intricacy of the diagrams illus- 
trating the subject, which naturally 



tend to mystify and mislead the wouhl- 
be pupil. Our drawings are, therefore, 
quite simple. For this reason, we 
have left out the dishes usually placed 
in such drawings, and have confined 
our "dotted lines" to within the 
barest limits necessary for the elucida- 
tion of the text. 

We must merely promise, that iu 
all cases, the drawings of joints, etc., 
are placed before the reader in exactly 
the same position as if he were about 
to commence to carve them. 

Soups. — The first course at all 
dinners is invariably the soup, and 
from that circumstance, as well as 
from the fact of its being the easiest 
dish to preside over, we place it first 
in our remarks and directions con- 
cerning carving. It should be ladled 
into the plate in about two dips. It 
is better to have the trouble of lad- 
ing twice or thrice rather than run 
the risk of spilling the soup on the 
cloth, on account of the ladle being 
too full. 

With regard to Julienne soups, or 
any kind of soups wherein there are 
vegetables, pieces of meat, or force- 
meat balls, care should be taken to 
give the composition a stir round be- 
fore serving, in order that each guest 
may have a just proportion of liquid 
and solid. 

Salmon. — Serve a slice of the thick 
with a smaller slice of the thin part. 
Keep the flakes of the thick part as 
firm as possible. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. — 
The thick part of the back is best. It 
should be carved in unbroken slices, 
and each solid slice should be accom- 
panied by a bit of the sound, from 
under the back-bone, or from the 
cheek, jaws, tongue, etc., of the head. 

Mackerel should be served in 
pieces cut through the side when they 
are large. If small, they may be di- 
vided through the back-bone, and 
served in halves. The shoulder part 
is considered the best. 

Eels are usually cut into several 
pieces, either for stewing or frying. 
The thick parts are considered best. 



220 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



The Sirloin of Beef. — The sir- 
loin may be carved in two ways, either 
in long slices from 1 to 2, by which 
means a due proportion of fat and lean 
is served, or cut across the middle as 
at 3. The latter method is apt to spoil 




the appearance of the noble joint. 
Should the " under-side " be required, 
the joint should be turned over, and 
slices cut across at 4. Do not forget to 
serve with each slice some of the 
prime soft fat at 5. 

Ribs of Beef. — Ribs of beef are 
carved in the same manner as the 
second method mentioned above — 
viz., across the joint. Qf>casionally 
the bones are removed ; then it is cus- 
tomary to carve it in the same way as 
a round of beef. 

The Edge-Bone, or Aitch-Bone. 
— The edge-bone or aitch-bone of beef 
should be carved in the following man- 




ner : — Cut a thick slice off the outside 
from 1 to 2, then cut thin slices, grad- 
ually getting the joint to a level at the 
line 2 to 5. It should be remembered 
that just at this point is the prime 
cut of the joint. In serving each 
slice, do not forget to add to each plate 
some of the marrowy and solid fats, 
which may be found respectively at 3 



and 4. 

The Round of Beef. — This may 
be carved in a similar way to the above, 
care being taken to cut the slices as 
thin as possible. Indeed, in carving 
all joints, it would be well to recollect 
the saying of a certain noble old bon 
vivauf, " You can always tell a man's 
breeding by his cutting beef thin and 
mutton thick." 

Saddle of Mutton. — The saddle 
of mutton is always a popular joint. 
Carve in the following way : — Slice 
across from 1 to 2, serving moderately 




thick slices, with a portion of fat from 
3. Finish one side always before 
commencing the other. 

Haunch of Mutton, or Venison. 
— In cutting a haunch of mutton, first 
make an incision at 2, 4, say about 
three inches long. Then cut thin 




slices from 3 to the cross-line 2, 4, 5. 
The gravy will be found in copious sup- 
ply in the cavity at 4. In carving this 
joint, always cut the slices towards 
yourself. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. — In carv- 
ing a roast leg of mutton, always have 
the shank to the left hand, as depicted 
in the drawing. Place the fork in 
at about 7, to hold it steady, and cut 
right down to the bone in the direc- 
tion 1, 2; the knife will thus pass 
through the kernel of fat denominated 
the " pope's eye," of which some peo- 
ple are particularly fond. The most 
juicy slices are to be obtained from 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



221 




the line 1, 2, upwards towards 5, 
though some people prefer the shank 
or knuckle. Fat may be found on the 
ridges 5, 5, and should be cut in the 
direction 5, 6. 

Should you desire to cut out what 
is called the " cramp-bone," take hold 
of the shank-bone with your left hand, 
then cut down to the thigh-bone at 
the point 4, and after passing the knife 
under the cramp-bone in the direction 
4, 3, it can easily be extricated. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — A 
boiled leg of mutton may be carved 
in the like manner to the roast ; but 
in helping, care should be taken to 
give a due proportion of caper sauce 
with each slice. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — A 
shoulder of mutton, though perhaps 
one of the most repulsive joints 
ever brought to table, is, nevertheless, 
greatly admired by some persons, who 
think the flavor of it superior to that 
of the leg, and it requires some skill in 
carving. When first cut it should be 

:^ ■■• 3 \^ 

5 

in the direction of 1, 2, cutting right 
down to the bone, causing the gravy 
to run into the dish. The prime fat 
may be found on the outer edge, and 
may be sliced ofl["in the direction 5 6 
n there is a large companv, after the 
bottom part in the line 1, 2,"is finished, 




there are some very delicate slices on 
each side of the ridge of the blade-bone 
in the lines 3, 4. The 7, 8 marks the 
direction of the edge of the blade- 
bone, and cannot be cut across. 

Some persons prefer the under side 
of the shoulder, as being more full of 
gravy. 

Loin of Mutton. — This joint re- 
quires but little skill in carving, but it 
should always be properly jointed by 
the butcher before being brought to 
table: there is nothing to do but to 
separate the meat into chops, and help 
one of each all round. 

A Fore-quaeter of Lamb. — The 
carving a fore-quarter of lamb must be 
commenced by passing the knife under 
in the direction of 3, 7, 4, 5, in order to 




separate the shoulder from the breast 
and ribs. When this is accomplished, 
the juice of a lemon, together with a 
little salt, should be squeezed upon the 
part from which it was taken. 

The gristly part may be separated 
from the ribs at the line 6, 7. The 
ribs are generally the most esteemed, 
and can easily be separated one from 
the other by cutting in the direction 
of the line 1, 2. If any one prefers 
the gristly part, a piece may be cut off 
in line 8, 9. 

Should the fore-quarter run very 
large, the shoulder must be placed in 
another dish, and carved in the same 
manner as a shoulder of mutton. 

Leg of Lamb is carved in the 
same manner as a leg of mutton. 

Loin of Lamb is carved in the same 
manner as loin of mutton, except that 
in lamb the fat is more delicate, conse- 
quently a larger proportion may be 
given to each guest. 

Leg of Pork. — A leg of pork, 



222 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



whether roasted or boiled, should be 
carved across the middle, exactly like 
the ordinary way of cutting a ham. If 
it is roasted, be sure to take care to 
give a due proportion of stuffing and 
crackling to each plate. 

Roast Pig. — A pig is very rarely 
sent to table whole : the cook gen- 
erally cuts it up, takes off the head, 
splits the body down the back, and 
garnishes the dish with the chaps and 
ears, etc. 

Before any one is helped, the legs 
and shoulders should be sejiarated from 
the carcass. The choice part of a pig 
is about the neck. The next best parts 
may be cut from the ribs. 

Loin of Pork must be carved like 
a loin of mutton. 

Hand of Pork may be treated in a 
similar manner to a shoulder of mut- 
ton. 

Calf's Head.— Commence by cut- 
ting right along the cheek in the line 
3, 2, and several handsome slices may 
be taken from this part. At the end 
of the jaw-bone may be found the 




throat-sweetbread, which is esteemed a 
great delicacy : this may be found by 
cutting in deeply at the line 3, 4. 
There is some choice gristly fat to be 
discovered about the ear, 6. The eye, 
too, is greatly relished, and may be 
obtained by cutting round its socket 
at 1 : the palate also is one of the tit- 
bits. 

Tongue and brains are visually 
served in a separate dish : the best 
part of the tongue is a slice close to 
the root. 

Fillet of Veal. — A fillet of veal 
is cut in the same manner as a round 
of beef, liecollect that some people 



prefer the brown outside, and do not 
forget to serve a portion of stuffing to 
each plate. 

Loin of Veal is usually carved in 
the same way as a loin of mutton : it 
should be borne in mind, however, 
that the choice portions are the fat 
and kidney underneath. 

A GiGOT OF Veal is generally 
carved after the manner of a leg of 
mutton. 

A Shoulder of Veal is served 
like a shoulder of mutton. 

Knuckle of Veal. — A knuckle of 
veal is certainly not one of the easiest 
joints to carve, though, at first glance, 
it appears to be so. It should be cut 




with a sort of semicircular sweep from 
1 to 2. The bones should be cut from 
'] to 4. The fat, which is to be found 
at 4, is greatly esteemed. 

Roast Fowl. — Perhaps the most 
difficult thing to carve is a roast fowl ; 
indeed, he who can accomplish this 
properly, can soon make himself a 
proficient in every other branch of the 
art. 




The cut which we give here shows 
the fowl on its side, with a leg, a wing, 
and a neck-bone taken off. It is often 
more convenient to take the bird on a 
plate, and as you detach the joints in 
the line 1, 2, 4, place them in the dish. 

The next thing is to cut off the 
neck-bones. This is accomplished by 



CARVING POULTRY. 



223 



inserting the knife at 7, running it 
under the broad part of the bone in 
the line 7, 2, then lifting it, and break- 
ing off the end of the shortest part of 
the bone. Then divide the breast 
from back by cutting through the ribs 
on each side from the neck to the tail. 
Turn the back upwards, fix the fork 
under the rump, and lay the edge of 
the knife in the line 2, 5, 3, press it 
down, raise the tail, and you will find 
it will easily divide in the line 2, 5, 3. 

Lastly, put the lower part of the 
back upwards with the head toward 
you, and cut off the side-bones by forc- 
ing the knife through in the line 5, 6. 

X, Y, and Z represent respectively a 
neck -bone, wing, and leg, in the forms 
they ought to be when skilfully carved. 

Boiled Fowl. — Boiled fowl is 
carved in a similar manner to the 
above. The prime parts are usually 
considered to be the wings and breast. 
In a boiled fowl the legs are more ten- 
der than those of the roasted fowl. 

The Goose. — The goose should be 




placed with the neck end before you. 
Cut three long gashes in lines 1, 1, 1, 
to 2, 2, 2, quite to the bone ; detach 
these slices from the bone, and proceed 
to take off the leg by turning the bird 
on one side, putting the fork through 
the small end of the leg-bone, and 
pressing it close to the body. By this 
means, when the knife has entered at 
4, the joint can easily be raised. Pass 
the knife under the leg in the direction 
of 4, 5. If the leg still hangs at 5, turn 
it back with the fork, and it will easily 
separate. 

The leg being removed, the next 
matter is to take oflF the wing. This is 
done by passing the fork through the 
pinion, pressing it close to the body, 
and inserting the knife at the notch 3, 



and passing it beneath the wing in the 
line 3, 4. It requires a good deal of 
practice to be able to do this nicely. 
You may now proceed to take off tlie 
leg and wing on the other side. 

Having done this, you may proceed 
to cut off the apron in the line 6, 5, 7 ; 
and the 'merrythought in the line 9, 8. 
The other parts are taken off in a simi- 
lar manner to those of the fowl. 

The best parts of a goose are slices 
from the breast and the fleshy part of 
the wing. The stuffing of sage and 
onions is generally to be found just 
above the spot marked 7. This should 
be obtained by means of a spoon in- 
serted into the interior of the bird, and 
a small portion served to each plate. 

A Greex Goose. — A green goose 
may be cut up like a duck. Only about 
a couple of slices should be taken from 
the breast, and then the separated 
joints cut off in the ordinary manner. 
In this case, as with a fowl or duck, the 
bird should be entirely cut up before 
any of the guests are served. 

A Duck. — A duck is served in a 
similar way -to the preceding. The 
wings and breast are considered the 
most delicious morsels. 

Ducklings. — Ducklings are usually 
cut down the middle lengthways. It 
is not considered too much to give half 
a duckling to each guest. 

Pigeons are served in a similar man- 
ner to the foregoing. 

Roasted Turkey. — Roasted tur- 
key may be served in the same manner 
as a fowl, excepting the breast. This 
is the prime part, and many good slices, 
which should be cut lengthways, may 
be obtained therefrom. These should 
be served with small portions of the 
stuffing, and also sausages and force- 
meat balls. It should be borne in mind 
that the turkey has no merrythought. 

Boiled Turkey. — A boiled turkey 
(Should be carved in a similar manner. 
A Ham. — There are three ways of cut- 
ting a ham. One method is to begin at 
the knuckle, on the line 4, 5, and cut 
thin slices, gradually working up to the 
prime part of the joint : this is the most 



224 



YOU ASK 



•I'LL TELL! 




economical way of carving it. Another 
plan is to cut in at 2, 3, and serve 
slices from either side ; whilst a third 
method is to take out a small piece at 
1, and cut thin circular slices, thus 
enlarging the cavity by degrees. The 
advantage of this method is that it 
preserves the gravy and keeps the 
joint moist ; it is, of course, only prac- 
tised when the ham is served hot. 

The Tongue. — The tongue should 
be cut nearly through at the line 1, 2, 
and slices served from right or left. 




Some people are particularly partial to 
the fat and roots, which should be cut 
from 3 and 2. 



The Partridge.— The partridge is 
cut up almost in the same manner as a 
fowl. The wings must be taken off at 
1 ^ 1 




the lines 1, 2, and the merrythought in 
the line 3, 4. The wings and breast 
are usually regarded as the prime parts ; 
but the tip of the wing is generally con- 
eidered the most delicate portion in 
the whole bird. 

At hunting-breakfasts and bache- 
lors'-parties, where the birds are fre- 
quently served cold, it is not unusual 
to cut the bird in half, and give half a 
partridge to each guest. 

Grouse are carved in a similar 
manner to the above, while woodcocks, 
snipes, quails, and other smaller birds, 
are generally cut in half. Larks are 
usually served on skewers of four to 
each guest. 



GOOD THINGS TO EAT. 



Helpful Hints to Housewives — How to Pickle, Can and Preserve 
— Cakes, Pies, Ices and Puddings. 



Pickling. — There are three methods 
of pickling ; the most simple is merely 
to put the article into cold vinegar. 
The strongest pickling vinegar of 
white wine should always be used for 
pickles ; and for white pickles use dis- 
tilled vinegar. This method we re- 
commend for all such vegetables as, 
being hot themselves, do not require 
the addition of spice, and such as do 
not require to be softened by heat, as 
capsicums, chili, nasturtiums, button 
onions, radish-pods, horseradish, gar- 
lic, and shallots. Half fill the jars 
with best vinegar, fill them up with 
the vegetables, and tie down immedi- 
ately with bladder and leather. One 
advantage of this plan is, that those 
who grow nasturtiums, radish-pod«. 
and so forth, in their own gardens, 
may gather them from day to day, 
when they are exactly of the proper 
growth. They are very much better 
if pickled quite fresh, and all of a size, 
which can scarcely be obtained if they 
be pickled all at the same time. The 
onions should be dropped in the vine- 
gar as fast as peeled ; this secures their 
color. The horeradish should be 
scraped a little outside, and cut up in 
rounds half an inch deep. Gather bar- 
berries before they are quite ripe ; pick 
away all bits of stalk and leaf, and 
injured berries, and drop them in cold 
vinegar ; they may be kept in salt and 
water, changing the brine whenever 
it begins to ferment ; but the vinegar 
is best. 

The Second Method of Pickling 
J9 that of heating vinegar and spice, 
and pouring them hot over the vege- 
15 



tables to be pickled, which are previ- 
ously prepared by sprinkling with salt, 
or immersing in brine. Do not boil 
the vinegar, for if so its strength will 
evaporate. Put the vinegar and spice 
into a jar, bung it down tightly, tie a 
bladder over, and let it stand on the 
hob or on a trivet by the side of the 
fire for three or four days ; shake it 
well three or four times a day. This 
method may be applied to gherkins, 
French beans, cabbage, brocoli, cauli- 
flowers, onions, and so forth. 

The Third Method of Pickling 
Is when the vegetables are in a greater 
or less degree done over the fire. Wal- 
nuts, artichokes, artichoke bottoms, 
and beetroots are done thus, and some- 
times onions atid cauliflowers. 

Onions. — Onions should be chosen 
about the size of marbles : the silver- 
skinned sort are the best. Prepare a 
brine, and put them into it hot ; let 
them remain one or two days, then 
drain them, and when quite dry, put 
them into clean, dry jars, and cover 
them with hot pickle, in every quart 
of which has been steeped one ounce 
each of horseradish, sliced, black pep- 
per, allspice, and salt, with or without 
mustard seed. In all pickles the vine- 
gar should always be two inches or 
more above the vegetables, as it is sure 
to shrink, and if the vegetables are not 
thoroughly immersed in pickle they 
will not keep. 

WALNUTS. — Be particular in ob- 
taining them exactly at the proj)er 
season. Then make a pickle of vine- 
gar, adding to every quart, black pep- 
per one ounce, ginger, shallots, salt, 
225 



220 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



and mustard-seed, one ounce each. 
Most pickle vinegar, when the vege- 
tables are used, may be turned to use, 
walnut pickle in particular. Boil it 
up, allowing to each quart four or six 
anchovies chopped small, and a large 
tablespoonful of shallots, also chopped. 
Let it stand a few days, till it is quite 
clear, then pour off and bottle. It is 
an excellent store sauce for hashes, 
fish, and various other purposes. 

Beet Roots. — Boil or bake gently 
until they are nearly done. Accord- 
ing to the size of the root, they will 
require from an hour and a half to 
two hours. Drain them, and when 
they begin to cool, peel and cut in 
slices half an inch thick, then put 
them into a pickle composed of black 
pepper and allspice, of each one 
ounce; ginger, pounded, horseradish 
sliced, and salt, of each half an ounce 
to every quart of vinegar, steeped. 
Two capsicums may be added to a 
quart, or one dram of Cayenne. 

ARTICHOKES. — Gather young 
artichokes as soon as formed. Throw 
them into boiling brine, and let them 
boil two minutes. Drain them. When 
cold and dry, put them in jars, and 
cover with vinegar, prepared as 
method the third, but the only spices 
employed should be ginger, mace, and 
nutmeg. 

Artichoke Bottoms. — Select full- 
grown artichokes and boil them, not 
80 much as for eating, but just until 
the leaves can be pulled. Remove 
them and the choke. In taking off 
the stalk, be careful not to break it 
off, so as to bring away any of the 
bottom. It would be better to pare 
them with a silver knife, and leave 
half an inch of tender stalk coming to 
a point. When cold, add vinegar and 
spice, the same as for artichokes. 

MUSHROOMS. — Choose small 
white mushrooms. They should be 
but one night's growth. Cut off the 
roots, and rub the mushrooms clean 
with a bit of flannel and salt. Put 
them in a jar, allowing to every quart 
of mushrooms one ounce each of salt 
and ginger, half an ounce of whole 



pepper, eight blades of mace, a bay- 
leaf, a strip of lemon-rind, and a wine- 
glassful of sherry. Cover the jar 
close, and let it stand on the hob or 
on a stove, so as to ^e thoroughly 
heated, and on the pomt of boiling; 
so let it remain a day or two, till the 
liquor is absorbed by the mushrooms 
and spices. Then cover them with 
hot vinegar, close them again, and 
stand till it just comes to a boil, then 
take them away from the fire. When 
they are quite cold, divide the mush- 
rooms and spice into wide-mouthed 
bottles. Fill them up with the vine- 
gar, and tie them over. In a week's 
time, if the vinegar has shrunk so as 
not entirely to cover the mushrooms, 
add cold vinegar. At the top of each 
bottle put a teaspoonful of salad or 
almond oil. Cork close, and dip in 
bottle resin. 

SAMPHIRE. — On the seacoast 
this is merely preserved in water, or 
equal pans of sea-water and vinegar ; 
but as it is sometimes sent fresh as a 
present to inland parts, the best way of 
managing it under such circumstances 
is to steep it two days in brine, then 
drain and put it in a stone jar covered 
with vinegar, and having a lid, over 
which put thick paste of flour and 
water, and set in a very cool oven all 
night, or in a warmer oven till it 
nearly but not quite boils. Then 
let it stand on a warm hob for half 
an hour, and allow it to become 
quite cold before the paste is removed ; 
then add cold vinegar, if any more is 
required, and secure as other pickles. 

Indian Pickle, — The vegetables to 
be employed for this favorite pickle are 
small hard knots of white cabbage, 
sliced ; cauliflowers or brocoli in 
flakes ; long carrots, not larger than 
a finger, or large carrots sliced (the 
former are far preferable) ; gherkins, 
French beans, small button onions, 
white turnip radishes half grown, rad- 
ish-pods, shallots, young hard apples, 
green peaches, before the stones begin 
to form, vegetable marrow, not larger 
than a hen's egg, small green melons, 
celery, shoots of green elder, horse- 



PICKLING. 



227 



radish, nasturtiums, capsicums, and 
garlic. As all these vegetables do not 
come in season together, the best 
method is to prepare a large jar of 
pickle at such time of the year as most 
of the things may be obtained, and add 
the others as they come in season. Thus 
the pickle will be nearly a year in 
making, and ought to stand another 
year before using, when, if properly 
managed, it will be excellent, but will 
keep and continue to improve for 
years. For preparing the several vege- 
tables, the same directions may be ob- 
served as for pickling them separately, 
only take this general rule — that, if 
possible, boiling is to be avoided, and 
soaking in brine to be preferred ; be 
very particular that every ingredient is 
perfectly dry before putting into the 
jar, and that the jar is very closely 
tied down every time that it is opened 
for the addition of fresh vegetables. 
Neither mushrooms, walnuts, nor red 
cabbage are to be admitted. For the 
pickle : — To a gallon of the best white 
wine vinegar add salt three ounces, 
flour mustard half a pound, turmeric 
two ounces, white ginger sliced three 
ounces, cloves one ounce, mace, black 
pepper, long pepper, white pepper, half 
an ounce each, Cayenne two drams, 
shallots peeled four ounces, garlic 
peeled two ounces ; steep the spice in 
vinegar on the hob or trivet for two or 
three days. The mustard and turmeric 
must be rubbed smooth with a little 
cold vinegar, and stirred into the rest 
when as near boiling as possible. Such 
vegetables as are ready may be put 
in ; when Cayenne, nasturtiums, or 
any other vegetables mentioned in the 
first method of pickling come in sea- 
son, put them in the pickle as they 
are ; any in the second method, a 
small quantity of hot vinegar without 
spice ; when cold, pour it off, and put 
the vegetables into the general jar. If 
the vegetables are greened in vinegar, 
as French beans and gherkins, this 
will not be so necessary, but will be 
an improvement to all. Onions had 
better not be wet at all ; but if it be 
desired not to have the full flavor, both 



onions, shallots, and garlic may be 
sprinkled with salt in a cullender, to 
draw off all the strong juice ; let them 
lie two or three hours. The elder, 
apples, peaches, and so forth, to be 
greened as gherkins. The roots, 
radishes, carrots, celery, are only 
soaked in brine and dried. Half a 
pint of salad oil, or of mustard oil, is 
sometimes added. It should be rubbed 
with the flour of mustard and tur- 
meric. — It is not essential to Indian 
pickle to have every variety of vege- 
table here mentioned ; but all these 
are admissible, and the greater variety 
the more it is approved. 

To Pickle Gherkins. — Put about 
two hundred and fifty in a pickle of 
two pounds, and let them remain 
in it three hours. Put them in a 
sieve to drain, wipe them and place 
them in a jar. For a pickle, best vine- 
gar, 1 gallon; common salt, 6 ounces; 
allspice, 1 ounce; mustard seed, 1 
ounce ; cloves, ^ an ounce ; mace, ^ an 
ounce; 1 nutmeg sliced; 1 stick of 
horseradish sliced ; boil fifteen minutes ; 
skim it well. When cold, pour it over 
them, and let stand twenty-four hours, 
covered up ; put them into a pan over 
the fire, and let them simmer only un- 
til they attain a green color. Tie the 
jars down closely with bladder and 
leather. 

Pickled Eggs.— If the following 
pickle were generally known it would 
be more generally used. It is an ex- 
cellent pickle to be eaten with cold 
meat, etc. The eggs should be boiled 
hard (say ten minutes), and then di- 
vested of their shells ; when quite cold 
put them in jars, and pour over them 
vinegar (sufficient to quite cover th em ^, 
in which has been previously boiled 
the usual spices for pickling ; tie the 
jars down tight with bladder, and 
keep them until they begin to change 
color. 

PICKLING. — Do not keep pickles 
in common earthenware, as the glazing 
contains lead, and combines with vine- 
gar. Vinegar for pickling should be 
sharp, though not the sharpest kind, 
as that injures the pickles. If you use 



228 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



copper, bell-metal, or brass vessels for 
pickling, never allow the vinegar to 
cool in tlieni, as it then is poisonous. 
Add a teaspoouful of alum and a tea- 
cupful of salt to each three gallons of 
vinegar, and tie up a bag, with pepper, 
ginger root, spices of all the different 
sorts in it, and you have vinegar pre- 
pared for any kind of pickling. Keep 
pickles only in wood or stoneware. 
Anything that has held grease will 
spoil pickles. Stir pickles occasionally, 
and if there are soft ones take them 
out, and scald the vinegar, and pour it 
hot over the pickles. Keep enough 
vinegar to cover them well. If it is 
weak, take fresh vinegar and pour on 
hot. Do not boil vinegar or spice 
above five minutes. 

PICCALILLI.— Piccalilli is a mix- 
ture of all kinds of pickles. Select 
pickles, from the salt brine, of a uni- 
form size and of various colors ; as 
small cucumbers, button onions, small 
bunches of cauliflowers, carrots cut in 
fanciful shape, radishes, radish-pods, 
bean pods, Cayenne pods, mace, ginger, 
olives, limes, grapes, strips of horse- 
radish, etc. 

Arrange your selection ustefuUy in 
ghiss jars, and pour over them a liquid 
prepared in the following manner: 
To 1 gallon of white wine vinegar add 
8 tablespoonfuls of salt, 8 of mustard- 
flour, 4 of ground ginger, 2 of pepper, 
2 of allspice, 2 of turmeric, and boil all 
together one minute ; the mustard and 
turmeric must be mixed together by 
vinegar before they are put into the 
liquor ; when the liquor has boiled, 
pour it into a pan, cover it closely, and 
when it has become cold, pour it into 
the jars containing the pickles ; cover 
the jars with cork and bladder and let 
them stand six months, when they will 
contain good j)ickles. 

CHOW-CHOW.— Take a quarter of 
a peck of green tomatoes, the same 
quantity each of pickling beans and 
white onions, one dozen each of cucum- 
bers and green peppers, one head of 
cabbage. Season to tlie taste with mus- 
tard, celery-seed, and salt. Pour over 
these the oest cider vinegar, suflScient 



to cover. Boil slowly for two hours, 
continually stirring, and add while hot 
two tablespoonfuls of the finest salad 
oil. 

Pickled Nasturtiums (a very good 
substitute for Capers). — Ingredi- 
ents. — To each pint of vinegar 1 ounce 
of salt, ^peppercorns, nasturtiums. 

Mode. — Gather the nasturtium-pods 
on a dry day, and wipe them clean 
with a cloth, put them in a dry glass 
bottle, with vinegar, salt, and pepper 
in the above proportion. If you can- 
not find enough ripe to fill a bottle, 
cork up what you have got until you 
have some more fit ; they may be added 
from day to day. Bung up the bottles 
and seal or rosin the tops. They will 
be fit for use in ten or twelve months, 
and the best way is to make them one 
season for the next. 

Seasonable. — Look for nasturtium- 
pods from the end of July to the end 
of August. 

English Mixed Pickle. — Ingre- 
dients. — To each gallon of vhiegar al- 
low \ pound of bruised ginger, \ pou7id 
of mustard, ^ pound of salt, 2 ounces of 
mustard-seed, IJ ounces of turmeric, 1 
ounce of ground black pepper, \ ounce of 
Cayenne,cauliflowers, onions, celery, sliced 
cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nas- 
turtiums, capsicums, 

Mode. — Have a large jar, with a 
tightly-fitting lid, in which put as 
much vinegar as is required, reserving 
a little to mix the various powders to 
a smooth paste. Put into a basin the 
mustard, turmeric, pepper, and Cay- 
enne ; mix them with vinegar, and 
stir well until no lumps remain ; add 
all the ingredients to the vinegar, and 
mix well. Keep this liquor in a warm 
place, and thoroughly stir every morn- 
ing for a month with a wooden spoon, 
when it will be ready for the different 
vegetables to be added to it. As 'k^ise 
come into season, have them gathered 
on a dry day, and, after merely wiping 
them with a cloth, to free them from 
moisture, put them into the pickle. 
The cauliflowers, it may be said, must 
be divided into small bunches. Put 
all these into the pickle raw, and at 



SALADS. 



229 



the eud of the season, when there 
have been added as many of the vege- 
tables as could be procured, store it 
away in jars, and tie over with blad- 
der. As none of the ingredients are 
boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat 
till twelve months have elapsed. 
While the pickle is being made, keep 
a wooden spoon tied to the jar ; and 
its contents, it may be repeated, must 
be stirred every morning. 

Seasonable. — Make the pickle-liquor 
in May or June, to be ready as the sea- 
son arrives for the various vegetables 
to be picked. 

Potting Herrings and similar 
Small Fish. — The following is the 
mode practised in the Isle of Man for 
potting herrings, the fame of which is 
current in Europe : — Take fifty her- 
rings, wash and clean them well, cut 
off the heads, tails, and fins. Put them 
into a stewpan with three ounces of 
ground allspice, a tablespoonful of 
coarse salt, and a little Cayenne pep- 
per. The fish must be laid in layers, 
and the spice, etc., sprinkled upon 
them equally. A few bay-leaves and 
anchovies are then interspersed among 
the fish — the latter improve the flavor 
greatly. Pour upon the whole a pint 
of vinegar mixed with a little water. 
Tie over them a clean bladder and 
bake in a .slow oven. Skim ofi" the 
oil; boil half a pint of port or claret 
wine with a small quantity of the 
liquor and add it to the fish. If re- 
quired to be sent any distance it is 
better to cover the whole with some 
clarified butter. 

SALAD. — The mixing of salad is 
an art which is easy to attain with 
care. The main point is to incorpo- 
rate the several articles required for 
the salad, and to serve up at table as 
fresh as possible. The herbs should 
be " morning gathered," and they will 
be much refreshed by laying an hour 
or two in sjjring water. Careful pick- 
ing, and washing, and drying in a 
cloth, in the kitchen, are also very 
important, and the due proportion of 
each herb requires attention. The 
•auce may be thus prepared : — Boil 



two eggs for ten or twelve minutes, and 
then put them in cold water for a few 
minutes, so that the yolks may be- 
come quite cold and hard. Rub them 
through a coarse sieve with a wooden 
spoon, and mix them with a table- 
spoonful of water or cream, and then 
add two tablespoonfuls of fine flask 
oil, or melted butter. Mix and add 
by degrees a teaspoonful of salt, and 
the same quantity of mustard. Mix 
till smooth, when incorporate with the 
other ingredients about three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Then pour this 
sauce down the side of the salad bowl, 
but do not stir up the salad till wanted 
to be eaten. Garnish the top of the 
salad with the white of the eggs, cut 
in slices ; or these may be arranged 
in such manner as to be ornanieutul 
on the table. Some persons may 
fancy they are able to prepare a salad 
without previous instruction, but, like 
everything else, a little knowledge in 
fhis case is not thrown away. 

A Winter Salad. 

Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 

Unwonted softness to the salad give; 

Of mordant mnstard add a single spoon — 

Distrust the condiment which bites so soon ; 

But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 

And once with vinegar procured from town. 

True flavor needs it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs; 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; 

And lastly, on the favored compound toss 

A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce ; 

Then, though green turtle fail, though venison'* 

tough, 
And ham and turkey be not boiled enough, 
Serenely full, the epicure may say, — 
" Fate cannot harm me — 1 have dined to-day." 

Summer Salad. — Ingredients. — 
3 lettuces, a good quantity of mustard 
and o'ess, some young radishes, boiled 
beetroot, hard-boiled eggs. 

Mode. — Wash and carefully remove 
the decayed leaves from the lettuce 
and mustard and cress, drain them 
well from the water, and cut them 
and the radishes into small pieces. 
Arrange them on the dish lightly with 
the mustard and cress mixed with 
them, and any of the salad mixtures 



230 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



you prefer poured under, not over 
tliem. Garnish with boiled beetroot, 
cucumbers, and hard-boiled eggs cut 
into slices, and some vegetable flow- 
ers. Slices of cold poultry, or flaked 
fish, may be added to a summer salad, 
and are extremely good. 

Preparation of Vegetables.— There 
18 notliing in which the difference be- 
tween an elegant and an ordinary 
table is more seen, than in the dressing 
of vegetables, more especially of greens; 
they may be equally as fine at first at 
one place as at another, but their look 
and taste are afterwards very different, 
entirely from the careless way in which 
they have been cooked. They are in 
greatest perfection when in greatest 
plenty, i. e. when in full season. By 
Beason, we do not mean those early 
days when luxury in the buyers and 
avarice in the sellers force the various 
vegetables, but the time of the year in 
which, by nature and common culture, 
and the mere operation of the sun and 
climate, they are most plenteous and 
in perfection. 

Potatoes anu peas are seldom worth 
eating before midsummer. 

Unripe Vegetables are as insipid 
and unwholesome as unripe fruits. 

As to the Quality of Vegeta- 
bles, the middle size are preferred to 
the largest or the smallest ; they are 
more tender, juicy, and full of flavor, 
just before they are quite full-grown ; 
freshness is their chief value and ex- 
cellence, and I should as soon think of 
roasting an animal alive, as of boiling 
vegetables after they are dead. The 
eye easily discovers if they have been 
kept too long; they soon lose their 
beauty in all respects. 

Roots, Greens, Salads, etc., and 
the various productions of the garden, 
when first gathered, are plump and 
firm, and have a fragrant freshness no 
art can give them again ; though it 
will refresh them a little to put them 
into cold spring water for some time 
before they are dressed. 

To Boil Vegetables. — Soft water 
will preserve the color best of such as 
are green ; if you have only hard water, 



put to it a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
potash. 

Take care to Wash and Cleanse 
THEM thoroughly from dust, dirt, and 
insects — this requires great attention. 
Pick ofl" all the outside leaves, trim the 
vegetables nicely, and if they are not 
quite fresh-gathered and have become 
flaccid, it is absolutely necessary to re- 
store their crispness before cooking 
them, or they will be tough and un- 
pleasant ; lay them in a pan of clean 
water, with a handful of salt in it, for 
an hour before you dress them. Most 
vegetables being more or less succu- 
lent, their full proportion of fluids is 
necessary for their retaining that state 
of crispness and plumpness which they 
have when growing. 

On being cut or gathered, the 
exhalation from their surface continues, 
while from the open vessels of the cut 
surface there is often great exudation 
or evaporation, and thus their natural 
moisture is diminished ; the tender 
leaves become flaccid, and the thicker 
masses or roots lose their plumpness. 
This is not only less pleasant to the 
eye, but is a serious injury to the nu- 
tritious powers of the vegetable ; for in 
this flaccid and shrivelled state its fibres 
are less easily divided in chewing, and 
the water, which exists in the form of 
their respective natural juices, is less 
directly nutritious. 

The First Care in the Preser- 
vation OF Succulent Vegetables, 
therefore, is to prevent them from 
losing their natural moisture. They 
should always be boiled in a saucepan 
by themselves, and have plenty of 
water : if meat is boiled with them in 
the same pot, they will spoil the look 
and taste of each other. 

To HAVE Vegetables delicately 
Clean, put on your pot, make it boil, 
put a little salt in, and skim it per- 
fectly clean before you put in the 
greens, etc., which should not be put 
in till the water boils briskly; the 
quicker they boil the greener they 
will be. 

When the Vegetables sink, they 
are generally done enough, if the 



VEGETABLES. 



231 



water has been kept constantly boil- 
ing. Take them up immediately, or 
they will lose their color and good- 
ness. Drain the water from them 
thoroughly before you send them to 
table. This branch of cookery re- 
quires the most vigilant attention. 

If Vegetables are a minute or 
two too long over the fire, they lose all 
their beauty and flavor. 

If not thoroughly boiled ten- 
der, they are tremendously indigesti- 
ble, and much more troublesome dur- 
ing their residence in the stomach 
than underdone meats. 

Take Care your Vegetables 
ARE Fresh. — To preserve or give 
color in cookery many good dishes are 
spoiled ; but the rational epicure, who 
makes nourishment the main end of 
eating, will be content to sacrifice the 
shadow to enjoy the substance. As 
the fishmonger often suffers for the 
sins of the cook, so the cook often gets 
undeservedly blamed instead of the 
green grocer. 

To Cleanse Vegetables of In- 
sects. — Make a strong brine of one 
pound and a half of salt to one gallon 
of water; into this place the vege- 
tables, with the stalk ends uppermost, 
for two or three hours: this will de- 
stroy all the insects which cluster in 
the leaves, and they will fall out and 
sink to the bottom of the water. 

POTATOES. — We are all potato 
eaters (for ourselves, we esteem pota- 
toes beyond any other vegetable), yet 
few persons know how to cook them. 
Shall we be bold enough to commence 
our hints by presuming to inform our 
" grandmothers " how 

To Boil Potatoes. — Put them 
into a saucepan with scarcely sufficient 
water to cover them. Directly the 
skins begin to break, lift them from 
the fire, and as rapidly as possible 
pour off every drop of the water. Then 
place a coarse (we need not say clean) 
towel over them, and return them to 
the fire again until they are thoroughly 
done, and quite dry. A little salt, to 
flavor, should be added to the water 
before boiling. 



Potatoes Fried with Fish. — 
Take cold fish and cold potatoes. Pick 
all the bones from the former, and 
mash the fish and the potatoes to- 
gether ; form into rolls, and fry with 
lard until the outsides are brown and 
crisp. For this purpose, the drier kinds 
of fish, such as cod, hake, etc., are 
preferable ; turbot, soles, eels, etc., are 
not so good. This is an economical 
and excellent relish. 

Potatoes Mashed with Onions. 

— Prepare some boiled onions, by put- 
ting them through a sieve, and mix 
them with potatoes. Regulate the 
portions according to taste. 

Potato Cheesecakes. — One pound 
of mashed potatoes, quarter of a pound 
of currants, quarter of a pound of 
sugar and butter, and four eggs, to be 
well mixed together; bake them in 
patty-pans, having first lined them 
with puff-paste. 

Potato CoLCAN ON. — Boil potatoes 
and greens and spinach, separately ; 
mash the potatoes ; squeeze the greens 
dry ; chop them quite fine, and mix 
them with the potatoes, with a little 
butter, pepper, and salt. Put into a 
mould, buttering it well first: let it 
stand in a hot oven for ten minutes. 

Potatoes Roasted under Meat. 

— Half boil large potatoes ; drain the 
water ; put them into an earthen dish, 
or small tin pan, under meat roasting 
before the fire; baste them with the 
dripping. Turn them to brown on all 
sides ; send up in a separate dish. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Ingredi- 
ents. — Potatoes ; to every pound of 
mashed potatoes allow 1 ounce of but- 
ter, 2 tahlespoonfuh of milk, salt to taste. 
Mode. — Boil the potatoes in their 
skins ; when done, drain them, and let 
them get thoroughly dry by the side 
of the fire; then peel them, and, as 
they are peeled, put them into a clean 
saucepan, and with a large fork beat 
them to a light paste; add butter, 
milk, and salt in the above propor- 
tion, and stir all the ingredients well 
over the fire. When thoroughly hot, 
dish them lightly, and draw the fork 
backwards over the potatoes to make 



232 



you ask! — I'll tell! 



the surface rough, and serve. Wheu 
dressed in this manner, they may be 
browned at the top with a salamander, 
or before the fire. Some cooks press 
;he potatoes into moukls, then turn 
tiiem out, and brown them in the oven ; 
this is a pretty mode of serving, but it 
makes them heavy. In whatever way 
they are sent to the table, care must 
be taken to have them quite free from 
lumps. 

Time, from half an hour to three- 
quarters of an hour to boil the pota- 
toes. 

Potatoes Fried in Slices. — Peel 
large potatoes, slice them about a quar- 
ter of an inch thick, or cut them into 
shavings, as you would peel a lemon ; 
dry them well in a clean cloth, and 
fry them in lard or dripping. Take 
care that the fat and frying-pan are 
quite clean ; put it on a quick fire, and 
us soon as the lard boils, and is still, 
put in the slices of potato, and keep 
moving them until they are crisp; 
take them up, and lay them to drain 
on a sieve. Send to table with a little 
salt sprinkled over them. 

Potatoes Escalloped. — Mash 
potatoes in the usual way ; then but- 
ter some nice clean scollop-shells, 
patty-pans, or teacups or saucers; put 
in your potatoes ; make them smooth 
at the top; cross a knife over them; 
strew a few fine bread crumbs on them ; 
sprinkle them with a paste-brush with 
a few drops of melted butter, and 
set them in a Dutch oven. When 
nicely brow'ned on the top, take them 
carefully out of the shells, and brown 
on the other side. Cold potatoes may 
be warmed up this way. 

Potato Scones. — Mash boiled po- 
tatoes till they are quite smooth, add- 
ing a little salt ; then knead out the 
flour, or barley-nieal, to the thickness 
required ; toast on the girdle, pricking 
them with a fork to prevent them blis- 
tering. Wiien eaten with fresh or salt 
butter they are e(]ual to crumpets — 
even superior, and very nutritious. 

Potato Pie. — Peel and slice your 
potatoes very thinly into a pie-dish. 
Between each layer of potatoes put a 



little chopped onion, and sprinkle a 
little pepper and salt. Put in a little 
water, and cut about two ounces of 
fresh butter into bits, and lay them on 
the top. Cover it close with paste. 
The yolks of four eggs may be added, 
and when baked, atablespoonfulofgood 
mushroom ketchup poured in through 
a funnel. Another method is to put 
between the layers small bits of mut- 
ton, beef, or pork. In Cornwall, 
turnips are added. This constitutes 
(on the Cornish method) a cheap and 
satisfactory dish for families. 

Cold Potatoes. — There are few 
articles in families more subject to 
waste, whether in paring, boiling, or 
being actually wasted, than potatoes. 
And there are few cooks who do not 
boil twice as many potatoes every day 
as are wanted, and fewer still who do 
not throw the residue away as being 
totally unfit in any shape for the next 
day's meal ; yet, if they would take 
the trouble to beat up the despised 
cold potatoes with an equal quantity 
of flour, they would find them produce 
a much lighter dumpling or pudding 
than they can make with flour alone ; 
and by the aid of a few spoonfuls of good 
gravy, they will provide a cheap and 
agreeable appendage to the dinner 
table. 

Baked Poi'Atoes. — Choose large 
potatoes, as much of a size as possible ; 
wash them in lukewarm water, and 
scrub them well, for the browned skiu 
of a baked potato is by many persons 
considered the better part of it. Put 
them into a moderate oven, and bake 
them for two hours, turning them 
three or four times while they are 
cooking. Serve them in a napkin 
immediately they are done, as, if kept 
a long time in the oven, they have a 
shrivelled appearance. Potatoes may 
also be roasted before the fire, in an 
American oven; but when thua 
cooked, they must be done very 
slowly. Do not forget to send to table 
with them a piece of cold butter. 

Time, large potatoes, in a hot oveu, 
one and a half to two hours ; in a cool 
oveu, two to two and a half hours. 



VEGETABLES. 



French or String Beans. — Cut 
away the stalk end, and strip off the 
strings^ then cut them into shreds. 
If not quite fresh, have a basin of 
spring water, with a little salt dis- 
solved in it, and as the beans are 
cleaned and stringed throw them in. 
Put them on the fire in boiling water, 
with some salt in it; after they have 
boiled fifteen or twenty minutes, take 
one out and taste it. As soon as they 
are tender, take them up, throw them 
into a cullender or sieve to drain. 
Send up the beans whole when they 
are very young. When they are very 
large, they look pretty cut into lozenges. 

Boiled Turnip Radishes. — Boil in 
plenty of salted water, and in about 
twenty-five minutes they will be 
tender. Drain well, and send them to 
table with melted butter. Common 
radishes, when young, tied in bunches, 
boiled for twenty minutes, and served 
on a toast, are excellent. 

ASPARAGUS — (often miscalled 
" Asparagrass"). — Scrape the stalks 
till they are clean, throw them into a 
pan of cold water, tie them up in bun- 
dles of about a quarter of a hundred 
each, cut off the stalks at the bottom 
to a uniform length, leaving enough to 
serve as a handle for the green part ; 
4)ut them into a stewpan of boiling 
water, with a handful of salt in it. Let 
it boil, and skim it. When they are 
tender at the stalk, which will be in 
from twenty to thirty minutes, they 
are done enough. Watch the exact 
time of their becoming tender, take 
them up that instant. While the as- 
paragus is boiling, toast a round of a 
large loaf, about half an inch thick, 
brown it delicately on both sides, dip 
it lightly in the liquor the asj^aragus 
was boiled in, and lay it in the middle 
of a di§h, melt some butter, but do not 
put it over them. Serve butter in a 
butter-boat. 

ARTICHOKES. — Soak them in 
cold water, wash them well, put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a 
handful of salt, and let them boil 
gently for an hour and a half or two 
hours, trim them and drain on a sieve. 



send up melted butter with them, which 
some put into small cups, one for each 
guest. 

Stewed Water-Cress. — The fol- 
lowing recipe may be new, and will 
be found an agreeable and wholesome 
dish : — Lay the cress in strong salt 
and water, to clear it from insects. 
Pick and wash nicely, and stew it in 
water for about ten minutes ; drain 
and chop, season with pepper and salt, 
add a little butter, and return it to the 
stewpan until well heated. Add a little 
vinegar previously to serving; put 
around it sippets of toast or fried 
bread. The above, made thin, as a 
substitute for parsley and butter, will 
be found an excellent sauce for a boiled 
fowl. There should be more of the 
cress considerably than of the parsley, 
as the flavor is much milder. 

Stewed Mushrooms. — Cut off the 
ends of the stalks, and pare neatly 
some middle-sized or button mush- 
rooms, and put them into a basin of 
water with the juice of a lemon as 
they are done. When all are prepared, 
take them from the water with the 
hands to avoid the sediment, and put 
them into a stewpan with a little fresh 
butter, white pepper, salt, and a little 
lemon-juice ; cover the pan close, and 
let them stew gently for twenty min- 
utes or half an hour; then thicken 
the butter with a spoonful of flour, 
and add gradually suflicient cream, or 
cream and milk, to make the same 
about the thickness of good cream. 
Season the sauce to palate, adding a 
little pounded mace or grated nutmeg. 
Let the whole stew gently until the 
mushrooms are tender. Remove every 
particle of butter which may be float- 
ing on the top before serving. 

Boiled Brussels Sprouts. — To each 
gallon allow 2 teaspoon/uls of salt, and 
a small piece of soda. 

Clean the sprouts from insects, 
nicely wash them, and pick off any 
dead leaves from the outsides; put 
them into a saucepan of boiling water, 
with salt and soda in the above pro- 
portion. Keep the pan uncovered, 
and let them boil quickly over a brisk 



234 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



fire until tender; drain, dish, and 
serve with a tureen of melted butter, 
or with a maitre-d' hotel sauce poured 
over them. Another mode of serving 
is, when they are dished, to stir in 
about one ounce and a half of butter, 
and a seasoning of pej)per and salt. 
They must, however, be sent to table 
very quickly, as, being so small, this 
vegetable soon cools. Where the cook 
is expeditious, this vegetable, when 
cooked, may be arranged on the dish 
in the form of a pineapple, and, so 
served, has a very pretty appearance. 

Time, from nine to twelve minutes 
after the water boils. 

Boiled Cabbage. — To each J gallon 
oj' water allow 1 heaped tublespoonful of 
salt; a very small piece of soda. 

Pick off all the dead outside leaves, 
cut off as much of the stalk as possible, 
and cut the cabbage across twice, at 
the stalk end ; if they should be very 
larg*?, quarter them. Wash them well 
in cold water, place them in a cullender 
and drain ; then put them into plenty 
of fast-boiling water, to which have 
been added salt and soda in the above 
proportions. Stir the cabbages down 
once or twice in the water, keep the pan 
uncovered, and let them boil quickly 
until tender. The instantr they are 
done, take them up in a cullender, 
place a plate over them, let them 
thoroughly drain, dish, and serve. 

Time, large cabbages, or savoys, one 
half to three-quarters of an hour; 
young summer cabbage, ten to twelve 
minutes, after the water boils. 

Boiled Carrots. — To each ^ gallon 
of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of 
salt. 

Cut off the green tops, wash and 
scrape the carrots, and should there 
be any black specks, remove them. If 
very large, cut them in halves, divide 
them lengthwise into four pieces, and 
put them into boiling water, salted in 
the above proportion ; let them boil 
until tender, which may be ascertained 
by thrusting a fork into them ; dish, 
and serve very hot. This vegetable is 
an indispensable accompaniment to 
boiled beef. When thus served, it is 



usually boiled with the beef; a few 
carrots are placed round the dish as a 
garnish, and the remainder sent to 
table in a vegetable-dish. Young car- 
rots do not require neany bo much 
boiling, nor should they be divided : 
these make a nice addition to stewed 
veal, etc. 

Time, large carrots, one and three- 
quarters to two and a quarter hours ; 
young ones, about half an hour. 

Boiled Cauliflowers. — To each J 
gallon of water allow 1 heaped table- 
spoonful of salt. 

Choose cauliflowers that are close 
and white ; trim off the decayed out- 
side leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at 
the bottom. Open the flower a little 
in places to remove the insects, which 
generally are found about the stalk, 
and let the cauliflowers lie in salt and 
water for an hour previous to dressing 
them, with their heads downwards : 
this will effectually draw out all the 
vermin. Then put them into fast-boil- 
ing water, with the addition of salt in 
the above proportion, and let them 
boil briskly over a good fire, keeping 
the saucepan uncovered. The water 
should be well skimmed; and when 
the cauliflowers are tender, take them 
up with a slice ; let them drain, and^ 
if large enough, place them upright in, 
the dish. Serve with plain melted 
butter, a little of which may be poured 
over the flower. 

Time, small cauliflower, twelve to 
fifteen minutes ; large one, twenty to 
twenty-five minutes, after the water 
boils. 

CELERY. — This vegetable is 
usually served with the cheese, and ia 
then eaten in its raw state. Let the 
roots be washed free from dirt, all the 
decayed and outside leaves being cut 
oli" preserving as much of the stalk as 
possible, and all specks or blemishes 
being carefully removed. Should the 
celery be large, divide it lengthwise 
into quarters, and place it, root down- 
wards, in a celery-glass, which should 
be rather more than half filled with 
water. The top leaves may be curled, 
by shredding them in narrow strips 



VEGETABLES. 






with the point of a clean skewer, at a dis- 
tance of about four inches from the top. 

Note. — This vegetable is exceedingly useful for 
flavoring soups, sauces, etc., and makes a very nice 
addition to winter salad. 

To Dress Cucumbers. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 3 tablespoonfuh of salad-oil, 3 
tablespoonfuls of%inegar, salt and pepper 
to taste ; cucumber. 

Mode. — Pare the cucumber, cut it 
equally into very thin slices, and com- 
mence cutting from the thick end; if com- 
menced at the stalk, the cucumber will 
most likely have an exceedingly bitter 
taste, far from agreeable. Put the slices 
into a dish, sprinkle over salt and pep- 
per, and pour over oil and vinegar in the 
above proportion*; turn the cucumber 
about, and it is ready to serve. This is 
a favorite accompaniment to boiled 
salmon, is a nice addition to all de- 
scriptions of salads, and makes a pretty 
garnish to lobster salad. 

Baked Spanish Onions. — Put the 
onions, with their skins on, into a 
saucepan of boiling water slightly 
salted, and let them boil quickly for an 
hour. Then take them out, wipe them 
thoroughly, wrap each one in a piece 
of paper separately, and bake them in 
a moderate oven for two hours, or 
longer, should the onions be very 
large. They may be served in their 
skins, and eaten with a piece of cold 
butter and a seasoning of pepper and 
salt; or they may be peeled, and a 
good brown gravy poured over them. 

Stewed Spanish Onions. —Ingre- 
dients. — 5 or 6 Spanish onions, 1 pint 
of good broth or gravy. 

Mode. — Peel the onions, taking care 
not to cut away too much of the tops 
or tails, or they would then fall to 
pieces ; put them into a stewpan capa- 
ble of holding them at the bottom 
without piling them one on the top of 
another ; add the broth or gravy, and 
simmer very gently until the onions are 
perfectly tender. Dish them, pour the 
gravy round, and serve. Instead of 
using broth, Spanish onions may be 
stewed with a large piece of butter: 
they must be done very gradually over 



a slow fire or hot plate, and will pro- 
duce plenty of gravy. 

Time, to stew in gravy, two hours, or 
longer if very large. 

Note. — Stewed Spanish onions are a faTorite 
accompaniment to roa«t shoulder of mutton. 

Boiled Parsnips. — To each J gal^ 
Ion of water allow 1 heaped tablespoon- 
ful of salt. 

Wash the parsnips, scrape them 
thoroughly, and, with the point of the 
knife, remove any black specks about 
them, and, should they be very large, 
cut the thick part into quarters. Put 
them into a saucepan of boiling water 
salted in the above proportion, boil 
them rapidly until tender, which may 
be ascertained by thrusting a fork in 
them ; take them up, drain them, and 
serve in a vegetable-dish. This vege- 
table is usually served with salt fish, 
boiled pork, or boiled beef; when sent 
to table with the latter, a few should 
be placed alternately with carrots 
round the dish, as a garnish. 

Time, iarge parsnips, one hour to 
one hour and a half; small ones, one- 
half to one hour. 

Boiled Green Peas. — To each \ 
gallon of water allow 1 svfiall teaspoon- 
ful of moist sugar, 1 heaped tablespoon- 
ful of salt. 

This delicious vegetable, to be eaten 
in perfection, should be young, and 
not gathered or shelled long before it is 
dressed. Shell the peas, wash them 
well in cold water, and drain them ; 
then put them into a saucepan with 
plenty oi fast-boiling water, to which 
salt and moist sugar have been added 
in the above proportion ; let them boil 
quickly over a brisk fire with the lid 
of the saucepan uncovered, and be 
careful that the smoke does not draw 
in. When tender, pour them into a 
cullender ; put them into a hot vege- 
table-dish, and quite in the centre of 
the peas place a piece of butter, the 
size of a walnut. Many cooks boil a 
small bunch of mint with the peas, or 
garnish them with it, by boiling a few 
sprigs in a saucepan by themselves. 
Should the peas be very old, and dilfi* 



^36 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



lult to boil a good color, a very tiny 
piece of soda may be thrown in the 
water previous to ])utting them in ; 
but this must be very sparingly used, 
as it causes the peas, when boiled, to 
have a smashed and broken appear- 
ance. With young peas, there is not 
the slightest occasion to use it. 

Time, young peas, ten to fifteen min- 
utes ; the large sorts, such as marrow- 
fats, etc., eighteen to twenty-four min- 
utes ; old peas, half an hour. 

To Boil Brocoli. — Time, ten to fif- 
teen minutes if small ; twenty to 
twenty-five minutes if large. 

2 or 3 heads of brocoli, 2 quarts of 
water, and a little fine salt. 

Strip off the dead outside leaves, 
and cut the inside ones even with the 
flower ; cut off the stalk close, and put 
them into cold salt and water for an 
hour before they are dressed, to cleanse 
them from all insects ; put them into 
a large saucepan of boiling salt and 
water, and boil them quickly for about 
twelve or fifteen minutes with the pan 
uncovered. When tender, take them 
carefully out, drain them dry, and 
serve them with a little melted butter 
poured over them, and some in a sep- 
arate tureen. 

Mashed Turnips. — Ingredients. 
— 10 or 12 large turnips, to each J gallon 
of water allow 1 heaped tahlespoonful 
of salt, 2 ounces of butter, Cayenne or 
white pepper to taste. 

Mode. — Pare the turnips, quarter 
them, and put them into boiling water, 
salted in the above proportion ; boil 
them until tender ; then drain them in 
a cullender, and squeeze them as dry 
as possible by pressing them with the 
back of a large plate. When quite 
free from vyater, rub the turnips with a 
wooden spoon through the cullender, 
and put them into a very clean sauce- 
pan ; add the butter, white pepper, or 
Cayenne, and, if necessary, a little 
salt. Keep stirring them over the fire 
until the butter is well mixed with 
them, and the turnips are thoroughly 
hot; dish, and serve. A little cream 
or milk added after the turnips are 
pressed through the cullender, is an 



improvement to both the color and 
flavor of this vegetable. 

Time, from half an hour to three- 
quarters to boil the turnips; ten 
minutes to warm them through. 

Summer Squashes. — If young and 
tender, they may be boiled whole; if 
not, pare, quarter, and take out the 
seeds. When boiled tender, take them 
out of the water, put them in a strong 
cloth, and press out all the water. 
Mash them. Salt and butter to you? 
taste. 

Winter Squash. — The neck is the 
best part. Cut it in narrow strii>s, 
take off the rind, and boil till tender, 
with salt. Then drain off the water, 
and let the squash steam over a mod- 
erate fire a few mifjutes. It is good 
not mashed. If mashed, add a small 
bit of butter. The winter squash 
makes a much better pie than pump- 
kins. 

Sweet Corn. — Corn is much the 
sweetest when boiled on the cob. It 
requires boiling from twenty to thirty 
minutes, varying with age. For suc- 
cotash, cut it from the cob, and boil it 
with Lima beans and a piece of salt 
pork. The beans and pork should be 
boiled half an hour before putting in 
the corn. 

Succotash. — Take one can of 
shelled beans, and two cans of corn, 
mix well together, and put in a sauce- 
pan with half a pound of butter, and 
thoroughly warm. Season to taste. 
A little cream or broth may be added 
if desired. Some people prefer salt 
pork in place of the butter. 

Hominy. — Rinse it thoroughly in 
cold water. If large ground, boil it 
about five hours, with a quart of water 
to a pint of the hominy. Turn ofl' all 
the water, and add a little salt and 
butter. The small ground will cook 
in less time. Hominy is nice wh«Mi 
cold, cut in slices and fried. 

Baked Beans. — This dish, so cele- 
brated in New England, is very eco- 
nomical and nutritious. Take one 
quart of small white beans, wash them 
and pick out the small colored ones, 
then put the beans in a kettle with 



PUDDINGS. 



237 



half a pound of corned pork and three 

Juarts of water. Boil slowly one hour. 
U3t before taking them up, put in 
half a teaspoonful of salaratus. Strain 
the beans, and put them in an earth- 
enware jar with three tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, and two teaspooufuls of 
salt. Place the pork in the middle 
of the beans, leaving the rind even 
with the top. Put in just enough 
water to cover them, and bake them 
five or six hours in a slow oven, 
adding a little more water if required. 
When cooked, put away the few beans 
that are dried on top. Serve a little 
of the pork with the beans. 

Baked and Boiled Pudding. — For 
boiled puddings you will require either 
a mould, a basin, or a pudding-cloth; 
the former should have a close-fitting 
cover, and be rubbed over the inside 
with butter before putting the pud- 
ding in it, that it may not stick to the 
side; the cloth should be dipped in 
boiling water, and then well floured 
on the inside. A pudding-cloth must 
be kept very clean, and in a dry place. 
Bread-puddings should be tied very 
loosely, as they swell very much in 
boiling. 

The water must be boiling when the 
pudding is put in, and continue to boil 
until it is done. If a pudding is boiled 
in a cloth it must be moved frequently 
whilst boiling, otherwise it will stick 
to the saucepan. 

There must always be enough water 
to cover the pudding if it is boiled in 
a cloth ; but if boiled in a tin mould, 
do not let the water quite reach the 
top. 

To boil pudding in a basin, dip a 
cloth in hot water, dredge it with flour, 
and tie it closely over the basin. When 
the pudding is done, take it from the 
water, plunge whatever it is boiling in, 
whether cloth or basin, suddenly into 
cold water, then turn it out immedi- 
ately; this will prevent its sticking. 
If there is any delay in serving the 
pudding, cover it with a napkin, or the 
cloth in which it was boiled ; but it is 
better to serve it as soon as removed 
from the cloth, basin, or mould. 



Always leave a little space in thp 
pudding basin for the pudding to 
swell ; or tie the pudding cloth loosely 
for the same reason. 

Boiled Apple Puddings. — One 
pound of flour, six ounces of very 
finely minced beef suet; roll thin, and 
fill with one pound and a quarter of 
boiling apples; add the grated rind 
and strained juice of a small lemon, 
tie it in a cloth ; boil for one hour and 
twenty minutes, or longer. A small 
slice of fresh butter stirred into it 
when it is sweetened will be an accep- 
table addition ; grated nutmeg, or cin- 
namon in fine powder, may be sub- 
stituted for- lemon rind. For a richer 
pudding use half a pound of butter 
for the crust, and add to the apples a 
spoonful or two of orange or quince 
marmalade. 

Boston Apple Pudding. — Peel and 
core one dozen and a half of good 
apples ; cut them small ; put them into 
a stewpan with a little water, cinna- 
mon, two cloves, and the peel of a 
lemon ; stew over a slow fire till soft ; 
sweeten with moist sugar, and pass it 
through a hair sieve; add the yolks 
of four eggs and one white, a quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nut- 
meg, the peel of a lemon grated, and 
the juice of one lemon; beat well to- 
gether ; line the inside of a pie-dish 
with good pufi" paste; put in the pud- 
ding, and bake half an hour. 

Bread Pudding. — Unfermented 
brown bread, two ounces ; milk, half ^ 
a pint; one egg; sugar, quarter of an 
ounce. Cut the bread into slices, and 
pour the milk over it boiling hot ; let 
it stand till well soaked, and stir in 
the egg and sugar, well beaten, with a 
little grated nutmeg; and bake or 
steam for one hour. 

Elegant Bread Pudding. — Take 
light white bread, and cut it in thin 
slices. Put into a pudding shape a 
layer of any sort of preserve, then 
a slice of bread, and repeat until the 
mould is almost full. Pour over all 
a pint of warm milk, in which four 
beaten eggs have been mixed; cover 
the mould with a piece of linen, place 



238 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



it in a saucepan with a little boiling 
water, let it boil twenty minutes, and 
serve witli pudding sauce. 

Plain Suet Pudding. — Time, two 
hours and a half to three hours. 

1 pound of flour, 4 ounces of beef suet, a 
pinch or two of salt, J a pint of water. 

Chop the suet very fine, and mix it 
with the flour, and a pinch or two of 
salt, and work the whole into a smooth 
paste with about half a pint of water. 
Tie the pudding in a cloth, the shape 
of a bolster, and when done cut it in 
slices and put butter between each slice. 
Or boil it in a buttered basin, turn it 
out when done, and serve it whole and 
without butter. 

One or two beaten eggs added to the 
above, with a less quantity of water, 
may be used. 

Baked Batter Pudding, with 
Dried or Fresh Fruit. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 1 J pints of milk, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, 3 eggs, 2 ounces of finely- 
shreaded suet, ^ pound of currants, a 
pinch of salt. 

Mode. — Mix the milk, flour, and eggs 
to a smooth batter ; add a little salt, 
the suet, and the currants, which 
should be well washed, picked, and 
dried ; put the mixture into a buttered 
pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour and a quarter. When 
fresh fruits are in season, this pudding 
is exceedingly nice, with damsons, 
plums, red currants, gooseberries, or 
apples ; when made with these, the 
pudding must be thickly sprinkled over 
with sifted sugar. Boiled batter pud- 
ding, with fruit, is made in thesame man- 
ner, by putting the fruit into a buttered 
basin, and filling it up with batter 
made in the above proportion, but 
omitting the suet. It must be sent 
quickly to table, and covered plenti- 
fully with sifted sugar. 

Time, baked batter pudding, one 
hour and a quarter to one hour and a 
half; boiled ditto, one hour and a half 
to one hour and three-quarters, allow- 
ing that both are made with the above 
proportion of batter. Smaller pud- 
dings will be done enough in three- 
quarters of an hour or one hour. 



Boiled Batter Pudding. — Ingrb- 

DIENTS. — 3 eggs, 1 ounce of butter, 1 
pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
little salt. ' 

Mode. — Put the flour into a basin, 
and add sufficient milk to moisten it ; 
carefully rub down all the lumps with 
a spoon, then pour in the remainder 
of the milk, and stir in the butter, 
which should be previously melted ; 
keep beating the mixture, add the 
eggs and a pinch of salt, and when 
the batter is quite smooth, put it into 
a well-buttered basin, tie it down very 
tightly, and put it into boiling water ; 
move the basin about for a few 
minutes after it is put into the water, 
to prevent the flour settling in any 
part, and boil for one hour and a 
quarter. This pudding may also be 
boiled in a floured cloth that has been 
wetted in hot water ; it will then take 
a few minutes less than when boiled 
in a basin. Send these puddings very 
quickly to table, and serve with sweet 
sauce, wine sauce, stewed fruit, or jam 
of any kind ; when the latter is used, 
a little of it may be placed round the 
dish in small quantities as a garnish. 

Boiled Rhubarb Pudding. — In- 
gredients. — 4 or 5 sticks of fine rhu- 
barb, \ pound of moistened sugar, | 
pound of suet-crust. 

Mode. — Make a suet-crust with 
three-quarters of a pound of flour (see 
Suet Pudding), and line a buttered 
basin with it. Wash and wipe the 
rhubarb, and, if old, string it — that is 
to say, pare off" the outside skin. Cut 
it into inch lengths, fill the basin with 
it, put in the sugar, and cover with 
crust. Pinch the edges of the pud- 
ding together, tie over it a floured 
cloth, put it into boiling water, and 
boil from two to two hours and a half. 
Turn it out of the basin, and serve 
with a pitcher of cream and sifted sugar. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Time, one 
hour and a half. 

IJ pints of viilk, 7 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, 3 eggs, and a little salt. 

Put the flour into a basin with a 
little salt and sufficient milk to make 
it into a stiff) smooth batter, add the 



PUDDINGS. 



239 



remainder of the milk and the eggs 
well beaten. Beat all well together, 
and pour it into a shallow tin which 
has been previously rubbed with butter. 
Bake it for half an hour, then place it 
under the meat for half an hour to 
catch a little of the gravy that flows 
from it, cut the pudding into small 
square pieces, and serve them with 
hot roast beef 

Note. — When eggs are dear, they may be omitted, 
and a little ale used instead. 

The English Plum Pudding.— 

Take one pound each of flour, raisins, 
suet, sugar, and grated bread crumbs, 
the whites of six and yolks of eight eggs, 
one ounce of citron, one nutmeg grated, 
and the juice of one lemon. Cut the 
raisins just suflicient to remove the 
seeds, then close them up, wash and 
rub the currants dry with a cloth, cut 
the suet and citron very fine, beat the 
eggs well into a froth, then mix the 
whole well together with one and a 
half pints of milk, — pour into bowls. 
Wet a cloth and dredge a little flour 
on, and tie it over the bowl, turning up 
the loose ends and pinning them over 
the top ; boil them seven or eight hours ; 
they will keep three weeks. The day 
you wish to eat one, place it in a slow 
oven one hour, or boil it for an hour 
(or they may be eaten when first boiled); 
serve it with brandy or wine sauce. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. — In- 
gredients. — IJ pounds of raisins, 
i pound of currants, ^ pound of mixed 
peel, f of a pound of bread crumbs, f of 
a pound of suet, 8 eggs, 1 wineglassful 
of brandy. 

Mode. — Stone and cut the raisins in 
halves, but do not chop them ; wash, 
pick, and dry the currants, and mince 
the suet finely ; cut the candied peel 
into thin slices, and grate down the 
bread into fine crumbs. When all 
these dry ingredients are prepared, mix 
them well together, then moisten the 
mixture with the eggs, which should be 
well beaten, and the brandy ; stir well, 
that everything may be very thoroughly 
blended, and press the pudding into a 
buttered mould, tie it down tightly 



with a floured cloth, and boil for five 
or six hours. It may be boiled in a 
cloth without a mould, and will require 
the same time allowed for cooking. 
As Christmas puddings are usually 
made a few days before they are re- 
quired for table, when the pudding 
is taken out of the pot hang it up im- 
mediately, and put a plate or saucer 
underneath to catch the water that 
may drain from it. The day it is to 
be eaten, plunge it into boiling water, 
and keep it boiling for at least two 
hours, then turn it out of the mould, 
and serve with brandy-sauce. On 
Christmas day a sprig of holly is usu- 
ally placed in the middle of the pud- 
ding, and about a wineglassful of 
brandy poured round it, which, at the 
moment of serving, is lighted, and the 
pudding thus brought to the table en- 
circled in flame. 

Time, five or six hours the first time 
of boiling, two hours the day it is to 
be served. Seasonable on the twenty- 
fifth of December and on various fes- 
tive occasions till March. 

Huckleberry Pudding. — Make a 
paste with one quart of flour and half a 
pound of butter ; rub OK'^-half the but- 
ter into the flour, -mx this vith coltl 
water, roll it out and put on the re- 
mainder of the butter in little pieces ; 
roll it out half an inch thick, spread 
the cloth previously dipped in water 
and well floured over the cullender, lay 
the paste on it, fill it with berries, tie 
the cloth tight, put it into boiling 
water and boil two hours. Serve with 
sweetened cream, flavored. 

To Make Hasty Puddings. — Time, 
twenty minutes. 

^ a j)int of milk, 1 egg, 1 heaped table- 
spoonful of flour, and a little salt, It a 
teaeupful of cold milk. 

Put half a pint of fresh milk into a 
saucepan to boil ; beat an egg, yolk 
and white together, well, add to it a 
good tablespoonful of flour and a little 
salt, beat the egg and flour togethei 
with a little cold milk to make a bat- 
ter. Pour it to the boiling milk, and 
keep stirring it until it is well boiled 
together. 



240 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Oatmeal Hasty Pudding. — Time, 
twenty minutes. 

\ a pint of boiling milk, \ ateacupful 
of cold milk, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 
of oatmeal, a little salt. 

Boil half a pint of milk, beat the 
flour and oatmeal into a paste with 
cold milk, add to it the boiling milk, 
and keep stirring it always in the 
same direction till it is done. 

Jam Roly-poly Pudding. — Time, 
two hours. 

i a pound of suet-crust, ^ a pound of 
jam. 

Make a light suet-crust and roll it 
out rather thin, spread any jam over 
it, leaving a small margin of paste 
where the pudding joins. Roll it 
round and tie it in a floured cloth, put 
it into boiling water, and in two hours 
it will be ready to serve. 

Potato Pudding. — Boil mealy po- 
tatoes in their skins, according to the 
rule laid down, skin and mash them 
with a little milk, pepper, and salt : 
this will make a good pudding to bake 
under roast meat. With the addition 
of a bit of butter, an egg, milk, pep- 

Eer, and salt, it makes an excellent 
atter for a meat pudding baked. 
Grease a baking dish ; put a layer of 
potatoes, then a layer of meat cut in 
bits, and seasoned with pei)per, salt, a 
little allspice, either with or without 
chopped onions ; a little gravy of roast 
meat is a great improvement: then 
put another layer of potatoes, then 
meat, and cover with potatoes. Put a 
buttered paper over the top, to prevent 
it from being burnt, and bake it an 
hour or an hour and a half. 

Peas Pudding. — Dry a pint or 
quart of split peas thoroughly before 
the fire ; then tie them up loosely in a 
cloth, put them into warm water, boil 
them a couple of hours or more, until 
quite tender; take them up, beat them 
well in a dish with a little salt (some 
add the yolk of an egg), and a bit of 
butter. Make it quite smooth, tie it 
up again in a cljth, and boil it an 
hour longer. This is highly nourish- 
ing. 
Baked Bread-and-Butter Pudding. 



— Ingredients. — 9 thin slices of bread 
and butter, \\ pints of milk, 4 eggs, sugar 
to ta^te, \ pound of currants, flavoring of 
vanilla, grated lemon-peel or nutmeg. 

Mode. — Cut nine slices of bread and 
butter, not very thick, and put them 
into a pie-dish, with currants between 
each layer and on the top. Sweeten 
and flavor the milk, either by infusing 
a little lemon-peel in it, or by adding 
a few drops of essence of vanilla ; well 
whisk the eggs, and stir these to the 
milk. Strain this over the bread and 
butter, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour, or rather longer. This 
pudding may be very much enriched 
by adding cream, candied peel, or more 
eggs than stated above. It should not 
be turned out, but sent to table in the 
pie-dish, and is better for being made 
about two hours before it is baked. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. — Ingre- 
dients. — \\ pints of milk, ^ pint of 
bread crumbs, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, 1 
ounce of butter, 8 ounces of currants, ^ 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeQ. 

Mode. — Make the milk boiling, and 
pour it on the bread crumbs; let these 
remain till cold ; then add the othe^ 
ingredients, taking care that the egg« 
are well beaten, and the currants well 
washed, picked, and dried. Beat the 
pudding well, and put it into a buttered 
basin ; tie it down tightly with a cloth, 
plunge it into boiling water, and boil 
for one hour and a quarter ; turn it out 
of the basin, and serve with sifted 
sugar. Any odd pieces or scraps of 
bread answer for this pudding ; but 
they should be. soaked over night, and, 
when wanted for use, should nave the 
water well squeezed from them. 

Black or Red Currant Pudding. 

— Ingredients. — 1 quart of red or 
black currants, measured with the stalks^ 
\ pound of moist sugar, suet-crust or 
butter-crust. 

Mode. — Make, with three-quarters 
of a pound of flour, either a suet-crust 
or butter-crust (the former is usually 
made) ; butter a basin, and line it with 
part of the crust ; put in the currants, 
which should be stripped from the 
stalks, and sprinkle the sugar over 



PUDDINGS. 



241 



them ; put the cover of the pudding 
on ; make the edges very secure, that 
the juice does not escape ; tie it down 
with a floured cloth, put it into boiling 
water, and boil from two and a half to 
three hours. Boiled without a basin, 
allow half an hour less. We have 
given rather a large proportion of 
sugar ; but we find fruit puddings are 
80 much more juicy and palatable when 
well sweetened before they are boiled, 
besides being more economical. A 
few^ raspberries added to red-currant 
pudding are a very nice addition : 
about half a pint would be sufficient 
for the above quantity of fruit. Fruit, 
puddings are very delicious if, when 
they are turned out of the basin, the 
crust is browned with a salamander, 
or put into a very hot oven for a few 
minutes to color it ; this makes it 
crisp on the surface. 

Time, two and a half to three hours ; 
without a basin, two to two and a half 
hours. 

Baked Custard Puddinff. — Ingre- 
DIEKTS. — 1^ pints of milk, the rind of \ 
lemon, ^ pound of moist sugar, 4 eggs. 

Mode. — Put the milk into a sauce- 
pan with the sugar and lemon-rind, 
and let this infuse for about half an 
hour, or until the milk is well flavored ; 
whisk the eggs, yolks and whites ; pour 
the milk to them, stirring all the while; 
then have ready a pie-dish, lined at 
the edge with paste ready baked ; strain 
the custard into the dish, grate a little 
nutmeg over the top, and bake in a 
very slow oven for about half an hour, 
or rather longer. The flavor of this 
pudding may be varied by substituting 
bitter almonds for the lemon-rind ; and 
it may be very much enriched by using 
half cream and half milk, and doubling 
the quantity of eggs. 

Note. — This pudding is usually served cold with 
fruit tarts. 

DamBon Pudding. — Ingredients. 

— \\ pints of damsons, 1 pound of 
moist sugar, f pound of suet or butter- 
crust. 

Mode. — Make a suet - crust with 
three-quarters of a pound of flour; line a 
16 



buttered pudding-basin with a portion 
of it ; fill the basin with the damsons, 
sweeten them, and put on the lid ; 
pinch the edges of the crust together, 
that the juice does not escape ; tie over 
a floured cloth, put the pudding into 
boiling water, and boil from two and a 
half to three hours. 

Boiled Lemon Pudding. — Ingre- 
dients. — 2 pound of chopped suet, | 
pound of bread crumbs, 2 small lemons, 
6 ounces of moist sugar, \ pound of flour, 
2 eggs, milk. 

Mode. — Mix the suet, bread crumbs, 
sugar, and flour well together, adding 
the lemon-peel, which should be very 
finely minced, and the juice, which 
should be strained. When these in- 
gredients are well mixed, moisten with 
the eggs and sufiicient milk to make 
the pudding of the consistency of thick 
batter ; put it into a well-buttered 
mould, and boil for three and a half 
hours ; turn it out, strew sifted sugar 
over, and serve with wine sauce, or 
not, at pleasure. 

Note. — This pudding may also be baked, and 
will be found very good. It will take about two 
hours. 

Suet Pudding (to serve with Roast 
Meat). — Ingredients. — 1 pound of 
flour, 6 ounces of finely-chopped suet, ^ 
saltspoonful of salt, ^ saltspoonful of 
pepper, j pint of milk or water. 

Mode. — Chop the suet very fine, 
after freeing it from skin, and mix it 
well with the flour ; add the salt and 
pepper (this latter ingredient may be 
omitted if the flavor is not liked), and 
make the whole into a smooth paste 
with the above proportion of milk or 
water. Tie the pudding in a floured 
cloth, or put it into a buttered basin, 
and boil from two and a half to three 
hours. To enrich it, substitute three 
beaten eggs for some of the milk or 
water, and increase the proportion of 
suet. 

Nnte.. — When there is a joint roasting or baking, 
this pudding may be boiled in a long shape, and 
then cut into slices a few minutes before dinner is 
served ; these slices should be laid in the dripping- 
pan for a minute or two, and then browned before 
the fire. Most children like this accompanimeat 
to roast meat. Where there is a large family of 



242 



vou ask! — I'll tell! 



children, jiiid the mear« of keeping tliem are lim- 
ited, it is a most ecoiioniieal plan to Berve up the 
pudding liulore the meat; as, in this case, the con- 
Biimptiuii of the latter article will he much Hniallor 
than it otherwise would be. 

Custard (Baked). — Boil in a pint 
of milk a few coriander seeds, a little 
cinnamon and lemon-peel ; sweeten 
with four ounces of loaf sugar, mix 
with it a pint of cold milk ; beat eight 
eggs for ten minutes; add the other 
ingredients ; pour it from one pan into 
another six or eight times, strain 
through a sieve; let it stand; skim 
the froth from the top, fill it in earthen 
cups, and bake immediately in a hot 
oven ; give them a good color ; ten 
minutes will do them. 

Rice and Tapioca Pudding. — 
Tivie, four hours. 

1 teaeupful of rice and tapioca, half 
the quantity of loaf sugar, a little 
ground cinnamon. 

Put into a deep dish a teaeupful of 
rice and tapioca mixed — rather more 
of the rice than the tapioca (do not 
wash or crack it) — half the quantity 
of loaf sugar, and three pints of cold 
milk ; sprinkle a little ground cinna- 
mon over the top, and bake in a slow 
oven. 

Rice and Apple Pudding;.— Tme, 
ten minutes for rice; pudding one 
hour. 

1 cupful of rice, 6 apples, 2 cloves, 
a little lemon-peel, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
sugar. 

Boil the rice for ten minutes, drain 
it through a hair sieve until it is per- 
fectly dry. Put a cloth into a pud- 
ding basin, lay the rice all round it 
like a crust. Quarter some apples as 
you would do for a tart, and lay them 
in the middle of the rice, add a little 
chopped lemon-peel and two cloves, 
and two teaspoonfuls (or to your 
taste) of sugar, cover the apples with 
rice. Boil the pudding for an hour. 
Serve it with melted butter poured 
over it. 

Note. — Tapioca nniy he used instead of rice ; it 
makes un excellent pudding. 

Plain Boiled Rice for Children.— 

Tirtie, two hours. 



^ of a jiound of rice, jam, or melted 
butter and sugar. 

Wash the rice in water, tie it in a 
cloth rather loosely, to give it room to 
swell, and put it into a saucepan of 
cold water. When done, turn it out 
on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce 
or jam. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. — Time, 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Some baking apj^les, white of an egg. 
some pounded sugar, puff-paste. 

Make some puff-paste, roll it thin, 
and cut it into square pieces ; roll one 
apple into each piece, put them into a 
baking dish, brush them with the 
white of an egg beaten stiff, and sift 
pounded sugar over them. Put them 
in a gentle oven to bake. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. — Time, 
to boil, one hour. 

Eight apples and some suet-crust. 

Pare and core eight fine apples, and 
cut them into quarters. Roll a nice 
suet-crust half an inch thick, cut it 
into round pieces, and lay in the 
centre of each piece as many pieces of 
apple as it will contain. Gather the 
edges up, and pinch them together 
over the apple. When all the dump- 
lings are made, drop them into a 
saucepan of boiling water, and let 
them boil gently for nearly or quite an 
hour, then take each one carefully out 
with .\ skimmer, place them all on a 
dish, and serve them quickly with but- 
ter, sugar, and nutmeg. To be eaten 
cut open, and the butter and sugar put 
into them. 

Lemon Sauce for Sweet Pud- 
dings. — Ingredients. — The rind 
and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful 
of flour, 1 vunce of butter, 1 large wine- 
glassful of sherry, 1 wineglassful of 
water, sugar to taste, the yolks of 4 eggs. 

Mode. — Rub the rind of the lemon 
on to some lumps of sugar; squeeze 
out the juice and strain it. Put the 
butter and flour into a saucepan, stir 
them over the fire, and when of a pale- 
brown, add the wine, water, and 
strained lemon-juice. Crush the lumps 
of sugar that were rubbed on tne 
lemon. Stir these into the sauce, 



PASTRY. 



243 



which should be very sweet. When 
these ingredients are well mixed, and 
the sugar is melted, put in the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, keep stirring the 
sauce until it thickens, when serve. Do 
not, on any account, allow it to boil, or 
it will curdle, and be entirely spoiled. 

Time, altogether, fifteen minutes. 

Sweet Sauce for Puddings. — In- 
gredients. — ^ pini of melted butter 
made with milk, 3 heaped teaspoonfuh 
of pounded sugar, flavoring of grated 
lemon-rind, or nutmeg, or cinnamon. 

Mode. — M^ke half pint of melted 
butter, omitting the salt. Stir in the 
sugar, add a little grated lemon-rind, 
nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon, and 
serve. Previously to making the melted 
butter, the milk can be flavored with 
bitter almonds, by infusing about half 
a dozen of them in it for about half an 
hour. The milk should then be 
strained before it is added to the other 
ingredients. This simple sauce may 
be served for children with rice, bat- 
ter, or bread puddings. 

Time, altogether, fifteen minutes. 

Wine Sauce for Puddings.— 
Ingredients. — 3 pint of sherry, \ 
pint of water, the yolks of 5 eggs, 2 
ounces of pounded sugar, ^ teaspoonful 
of minced lemon-peel, a few pieces of 
candied citron cut thin. 

Mode. — Separate the yolks from the 
whites of five eggs. Beat them, and put 
them into a very clean saucepan (if at 
hand, a lined one is best). Add all 
the other ingredients, place then" over 
a sharp fire, and keep stirring until 
the sauce begins to thicken; then 
take it off and serve. If it is allowed 
to boil, it will be spoiled, as it will 
immediately curdle. 

Time, to be stirred over the fire, 
three or four minutes, but it must not 
boil. Sufficient for a large pudding. 
Allow half this quantity for a moder- 
ate-sized one. 

Wine or Brandy Sauce for Pud- 
dings. — Ingredients. — J pint of 
melted butter, 3 heaped teaspoonfuh of 
pounded sugar, 1 large wineglassful of 
port or sherry, or % of a small glassful 
of brandy. 



Mode. — Make half a pint of melted 
butter by recipe, omitting the salt, 
then stir in the sugar and wine or 
spirit in the above proportion, and 
bring the sauce to the point of boil- 
ing. Serve in a boat or tureen sepa- 
rately, and, if liked, pour a little of it 
over the pudding. To convert this 
into punch sauce, add to the sherry 
and brandy a small wineglassful of 
rum and the juice, and grated rind of 
half a lemon. Liqueurs, such as Mar- 
aschino or Cura^oa, substituted for the 
brandy, make excellent sauces. 

Time, altogether, fifteen minutes. 

Boil your Molasses. —When mo- 
lasses is used in cooking, it is a very 
great improvement to boil and skim it 
before you use it. It takes out the 
unpleasant raw taste, and makes it 
almost as good as sugar. Where mo- 
lasses is used much for cooking, it is well 
to prepare two or three gallons in this 
way at a time. 

Very Good Puff-Paste. — Ingre- 
dients. — To every pound of flour allow 
1 pound of butter, and not quite ^ pint 
of tvater. 

Mode. — Carefully weigh the flour 
and butter, and have the exact propor- 
tion ; squeeze the butter well, to ex- 
tract the water from it, and afterwards 
wring it in a clean cloth, that no moist- 
ure may remain. Sift the flour ; see 
that it is perfectly dry, and proceed 
in the following manner to make the 
paste, using a very clean pasteboard 
and rolling-pin : — Supposing the quan- 
tity tc be one pound of flour, work the 
whole into a smooth paste, with not 
quite half a pint of water, using a knife 
to mix it with : the proportion of this 
latter ingredient must be regulated by 
the discretion of the cook ; if too much 
be added, the paste when baked will 
be tough. Roll it out until it is of an 
equal thickness of about an inch ; 
break four ounces of the butter into 
small pieces ; place these on the paste, 
sift over it a little flour, fold it over, 
roll out again, and put another four 
ounces of butter. Repeat the rolling 
and buttering until the paste has been 
rolled out four times, or equal quan- 



O « 1 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



titles of flour and butter have been 
used. Do not omit, every time the 
paste is rolled out, to dredge a little 
flour over that and the rolling-pin, to 
prevent both from sticking. Handle 
the paste as lightly as possible, and 
do not press heavily upon it with the 
rolling-pin. The next thing to be 
considered is the oven, as the baking 
of pastry requires particular attention. 
Do not put it into the oven until it is 
sufficiently hot to raise the paste ; for 
the best prepared paste, if not prop- 
erly baked, will be good for nothing. 
Brushing the paste as often as rolled 
out, and the pieces of butter placed 
thereon, with the white of an egg, 
assists it to rise in leaves ox flakes. As 
this is the great beauty of puff-paste, 
it is well to try this method. 

Commoii Paste, for Family Pies. 
— Ingredients. — 1 \ pounds of flaur, \ 
pound of butter, rather more than ^ pint 
of water. 

Mode. — Rub the butter lightly into 
the flour, and mix it to a smooth paste 
with the water ; roll it out two or three 
times, and it will be ready for use. 
This paste may be converted into an 
excellent short crust for sweet tarts, 
by adding to the flour, after the butter 
is rubbed in, two tablespoonfuls of 
fine-sifted sugar. 

Suet-Crust, for Pies or Puddings. 
— Ingredients. — To evertj pound of 
flour allow 5 or 6 ounces of beef suet, 
I pint of water. 

Mode. — Free the suet from skin and 
shreds ; chop it extremely fine, and rub 
it well into the flour ; work the whole 
to a smooth paste with the above pro- 
portion of water ; roll it out, and it is 
ready for use. This crust is quite rich 
enough for ordinary purposes, but when 
a better one is desired, use from half to 
three-quarters of a pound of suet to every 
pound of flour. Some cooks, for rich 
crusts, pound the suet in a mortar, with a 
small quantity of butter. It should then 
be laid on tlie paste in small pieces, 
the same as for puff"-crust, and will be 
found exceedingly nice for hot tarts. 
Five ounces of suet to every pound of 
flour will make a very good crust ; and 



even a quarter of a pound will answer 
very well for children, or where tho 
crust is wanted very plain. 

Dripping Crust, for Kitchen Pud* 
dings, Pies, etc.— Ingredients. — To 
every pound of flour allow 6 ounces of 
clarified beef dripping, J pint of water. 

Mode. — After having clarified the 
dripping, weigh it, and to every pound 
of flour allow the above proportion of 
dripping. With a knife, work the 
flour into a smooth paste with the 
water, rolling it out three times, each 
time placing on the crust two ounces 
of the dripping, broken into small 
pieces. If this paste is lightly made, 
if good dripping is used, and not too 
much of it, it will be found good ; and 
by the addition of two tablespoonfuls 
of fine moist sugar, it may be con- 
verted into a common short crust for 
fruit pies. 

MINCEMEAT, No. 1. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 2 pounds of raisins, ^pounds of 
currants, l| pounds of lean beef, Z pounds 
of beef suet, 2 pounds of moist sugar, 2 
ounces of citron, 2 ounces of candied 
lemon-peel, 2 ounces of candied orange- 
peel, 1 small nutmeg, 2 quarts of apples, 
the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, ^ 
pint of brandy. 

Mode. — Stone and cut the raisins 
once or twice across, but do not chop 
them ; wash, dry, and pick the cur- 
rants free from stalks and grit, and 
mince the beef and suet, taking care 
that the latter is chopped very fine ; 
slice the citron and candied peel, grate 
the nutmeg, and pare, core, and mince 
the apples ; mince the lemon-peel, 
strain the juice, and when all the in- 
gredients are thus prepared, mix them 
well together, adding the brandy when 
the other things are well blended ; 
press the whole into a jar, carefully 
exclude the air, and the mincemeat 
will be ready for use in a fortnight. 

MINCEMEAT, No. 2.— Take seven 
pounds of currants, well picked and 
cleaned ; of finely chopped beef suet> 
the lean of a sirloin of beef minced raw, 
and finely chopped apples (Kentish 
or golden pippins), each three and a 
half pounds; citron, lemon-peel, and 



PASTRY. 



245 



orange-peel cut small, each half a 
pound ; fine moist sugar, two pounds ; 
mixed spice, an ounce; the rind of 
four lemons and four Seville oranges. 
Mix well, and put into a deep pan. Mix 
a bottle of brandy and white wine, the 
juice of the lemons and oranges that 
have been grated, together in a basin. 
Pour half over and press down tight 
with the hand, then add the other 
half and cover closely. Some families 
make this one year so as to use the 
next. 

Mince Pies. — Mode. — Make some 
good puff-paste by either of the above 
recipes. Roll it out to the thickness 
of about a quarter of an inch, and 
line some good-sized pattypans with 
it. Fill them with mincemeat, cover 
with paste, and cut it off all round 
close to the edge of the tin. Put the 
pies into a brisk oven, to draw the 
paste up, and bake for twenty-five 
minutes, or longer, should the pies be 
very large. Brush them over with the 
white of an egg, beaten with the blade 
of a knife to a stiff froth ; sprinkle 
over pounded sugar, and put them 
into the oven for a minute or two, to 
dry the egg. Dish the pies on a white 
doyley, and serve hot. They may be 
merely sprinkled with pounded sugar 
instead of being glazed, when that 
mode is preferred. To rewarm them, 
put the pies on the pattypans, and let 
them remain in the oven for ten min- 
utes or a quarter of an hour, and they 
will be almost as good as if freshly 
made. 

Time, twenty-five to thirty minutes ; 
ten minutes to rewarm them. 

Apple Pie. — Ingredients. — Puff- 
paste apples ; to every pound of unpared 
apples, allow 2 ounces of moist sugar, ^ 
ieaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 
1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. 

Mode. — Make half a pound of pufi"- 
paste by either of the above-named 
recipes, place a border of it round the 
edge of a pie-dish, and fill it with 
apples pared, cored, and cut into 
slices. Sweeten with moist sugar, add 
the lemon-peel and juice, and two or 
three tablespoonfuls of water. Cover 



with crust, cut it evenly round close to 
the edge of the pie-dish, and bake in 
a hot oven from half to three-quarters 
of an hour, or rather longer, should 
the pie be very large. When it is 
three parts done, take it out of the 
oven, put the white of an egg on a 
plate, and with the blade of a knife 
whisk it to a froth. Brush the pie 
over with this, then sprinkle upon it 
some sifted sugar, and then a few 
drops of water. Put the pie back into 
the oven, and finish baking, and be 
particularly careful that it does not 
catch or burn, which it is very liable 
to do after the crust is iced. If made 
with a plain crust, the icing may be 
omitted. 

Time, half an hour before the crust 
is iced; ten to fifteen minutes after- 
wards. 

Note. — Many things are suggested for the fla- 
voring of apple pie. Some say two or three talilf- 
spooufuls of beer, others the same quantity uf 
sherry, which very much improves the t;uste ; 
while the old fashioned addition of a few cloves 
is, by many persons, preferred to anything else, as 
also a few slices of quince. 

Creamed Apple Tart. — Ingredi- 

ENTS. — Puff-crust apples ; to every 
pound of pared and cored apples, allow 
2 ounces of moist sugar, ^ ieaspoonful 
of minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice, ^ pint of boiled custard. 

Mode. — Make an apple tart by the 
preceding recipe, with the exception 
of omitting the icing. When the tart 
is baked, cut out the middle of the lid 
or crust, leaving a border all round 
the dish. Fill up with a nicely-made 
boiled custard, grate a little nutmeg 
over the top, and the pie is ready for 
table. This tart is usually eaten cold, 
is rather an old fashioned dish, but, at 
the same time, extremely nice. 

Time, half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Plain Apple Pie. — Pare, core, and 
quarter the apples ; boil the cores and 
parings in sugar and water ; strain off 
the liquor, adding more sugar ; grate 
the rind of a lemon over the apples, 
and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; 
mix half a dozen cloves with the fruit, 



246 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



put in a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut. Cover with puff-paste. 

Cup in a Pie-Dish. — Tlie custom of 
placing an inverted cup in a fruit pie, 
the cook will inform us, is to retain 
the juice while the pie is baking in the 
oven, and prevent its boiling over ; 
and she is the more convinced in her 
theory, because, when the pie is with- 
drawn from the oven, the cup will be 
found full of juice. When the cup is 
first put into the dish it is full of cold 
air, and when the pie is placed in the 
oven, this air will expand by the heat 
and fill the cup, and drive out all the 
juice and a portion of the present air 
it contains, in which state it will remain 
until removed from the oven, when the 
air in the cup will condense, and oc- 
cupy a very small space, leaving the 
remainder to be filled with juice ; but 
this does not take place till the danger 
of the juice boiling over is passed. If 
a small glass tumbler is inverted in the 
pie, its contents can be examined into 
while it is in the oven, and it will be 
found what has been advanced is correct. 

Cherry Tart. — Ingredients. — 1^ 
pounds of cherries, 2 small tablespoon- 
fuls of moist sugar, ^ pound of short crust. 

Mode. — Pick the stalks from the 
cherries, put them, with the sugar, into 
a deep pie-dish just capable of holding 
them, with a small cup placed upside 
down in the midst of them. Make a 
short crust with half a pound of flour, 
as before given. Lay a border round 
the edge of the dish ; put on the cover, 
and ornament the edges ; bake in a 
brisk oven from half an hour to forty 
minutes. Strew finely-sifted sugar over, 
and serve hot or cold, although the 
latter is the more usual mode. It is 
more economical to make two or three 
tarts at one time, as the trimmings 
from one tart answer for lining the 
edges of the dish for another, and so 
much paste is not required as when 
they are made singly. Unless for fam- 
ily use, never make fruit pies in very 
large dishes ; select them, however, as 
deep as possible. 

Note. — A few ciirrunts added to the cherries will 
tw found to impart a uice piquaut taate to tbvui. 



Rhubarb Tart. — Ingredients. — 
J pound of puff -paste, about 5 stickt of 
large rhubarb, ^ pound of moist sugar. 

Mode. — Make a puflf-crust, as given ; 
line the edges of a deep pie-dish with 
it, and wash, wipe, and cut the rhu- 
barb into pieces about one inch long. 
Should it be old and tough, string it — 
that is to say, pare off the outside skin. 
Pile the fruit high in the dish, as it 
shrinks very much in the cooking ; put 
in the sugar, cover with crust, orna- 
ment the edges, and bake the tart in 
a well-heated oven from one-half to 
three-quarters of an hour. If wanted 
very nice, brush it over with the white 
of an egg beaten to a stiff" froth, then 
sprinkle on it some sifted sugar, and 
put it in the oven just to set the glaze. 
This should be done when the tart is 
nearly baked. A small quantity of 
lemon-juice, and a little of the peel 
minced, are by many persons consid- 
ered an improvement to the flavor of 
rhubarb tart. 

Open Apple Tart. — Time, to bake 
in a quick oven, until the paste loosens 
from the dish. 

1 quart of sliced apples, 1 teacupful 
of water, 1 of fine moist sugar, ji a 
nutmeg, yolk of 1 egg, a little loaf sugar 
and milk, puff-paste. 

Peel and slice some cooking apples 
and stew them, putting a small cupful 
of water and the same of moist sugar 
to a quart of sliced apples, and half a 
nutmeg and the peel of a lemon grated; 
when they are tender, set them to cool 
Line a shallow tin pie-dish with rich 
pie-paste or light puff-paste, put in the 
stewed apples half an inch deep, roll 
out some of the paste, wet it slightly 
over with the yolk of an egg beaten 
with a little milk, and a tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar, cut it in very nar- 
row strips and lay them in crossbars 
or diamonds across the tart, lay another 
strip round the edge, trim off' the out- 
side neatly with a sharp knife, and 
bake in a quick oven until the paste 
loosens from the dish. 

Gooseberry Tart. — Time, to bake 
about three-quarters of an hour. 

1 quart of gooseberries, rather more 



CAKES, 



247 



than i a pound of short crust, 5 or 6 
minces of moist sugar. 

Cut off the tops and tails from a 
quart of gooseberries, put them into a 
deep pie-dish with five or six ounces 
of good moist sugar, line the edge of 
the dish with short crust, put on the 
cover, ornament the edges and top in 
the usual manner, and bake in a brisk 
oven. Serve with boiled custard or a 
jug of good cream. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Cut off the brown 
part of the cocoanut, grate the rest and 
put it with a quart of milk, using the 
milk of the nut. Simmer the meat of 
the nut and the milk for a quarter of 
un hour, then mix three tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar, two of melted butter, a 
small cracker pounded fine, and half a 
nutmeg giated ; when cool add a small 
glass of wine and five eggs beaten to a 
froth ; turn into deep plates, on which 
a puff-crust has been placed. Bake 
directly in a quick oven. Eat when 
cold. 

CHEESECAKES. - Time, fifteen 
to twenty minutes. 

J a pint of good curd, 4 eggs, 3 spoon- 
fuls of rich cream, a } of a nutmeg, 1 
gpoonful of ratafia, a ^ of a pound of 
currants, puff-paste. 

Beat half a pint of good curd with 
four eggs, three spoonfuls of rich 
cream, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, 
a spoonful of ratafia, and a quarter of 
a pound of currants washed and dried. 
Mix all well together, and bake in 
patty-pans lined with a good puff-paste. 
Baked Custard. — Allow six eggs to a 
quart of milk, for a rich custard ; for a 
plain one, four eggs is sufiicient. Beat 
the eggs to a froth, with two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, then stir 
them into the milk. Flavor the cus- 
tard with extract of peach, or nutmeg, 
bake it in cups or a deep dish. It will 
be less likely to whey, if the cups are 
set into a pan of water while baking ; 
the water should be warm when they 
are put in, and nearly to the top of 
the cups. If the oven is hot, the cus- 
tard will bake in cups in the course of 
twenty minutes, if in a large dish, a 
longer time will be required. 



A Nice Plum Cake for Children. 

— Ingredients. — 'i: pounds of dough, 
\of a pound of moist sugar, ^of a pound 
of butter or good beef dripping, ^ of a 
pint of warm milk, ^ grated nutmeg, or 
2 ounce of caraway seeds. 

Mode. — If you are not in the habit 
of making bread at home, procure the 
dough from the baker's, and, as soon as 
it comes in, put it into a basin near the 
fire ; cover the basin with a thick cloth, 
and let the dough remain a little while 
to rise. In the meantime, beat the 
butter to a cream, and make the milk 
warm ; and when the dough has risen, 
mix with it thoroughly all the above 
ingredients, and kneed the cake well 
for a few minutes. Butter some cake- 
tins, half fill them, and stand them in 
a warm place, to allow the dough to 
rise again. When the tins are three 
parts full, put the cakes into a good 
oven, and bake them from one and 
three-quarters to two hours. A few 
currants might be substituted for the 
caraway seeds when the flavor of the 
latter is disliked. 

A Nice Plum Cake. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 1 pound of fiour, \ pound of 
butter, \ pound of sugar, ^ pound of 
currants, 2 ounces of candied lemon-peel, 
\ pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia 
or carbonate of soda. 

Mode. — Put the flour into a basin 
with the sugar, currants, and sliced 
candied peel ; beat the butter to a cream, 
and mix all these ingredients together 
with the milk. Stir the ammonia into 
two tablespoonfuls of milk, add it to 
the dough, and beat the whole well, 
until everything is thoroughly mixed. 
Put the dough into a buttered tin, and 
bake the cake from one and a half to 
two hours. 

Pound Cake. — Ingredients. — 1 
pound of butter, 1^ pounds of flour, 1 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, 1 pound of 
currants, 9 eggs, 2 ounces of candied peel, 
^ ounce of citron, g ounce of sweet almonds; 
when liked, a little pounded mace. 

Mode. — Work the butter to a cream,, 
dredge in the flour, add the sugar, cur- 
rants, candied peel, which should be 
cut into neat slices, and the almonds. 



248 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



which should be blanched and choi)i)ed, 
and mix all these well together, whisk 
the eggs, and let them be thoroughly 
blended with the dry ingredients. Beat 
the cake well for twenty minutes, and 

Eut it into a round tin, lined at the 
ottom and sides with a strip of white 
buttered paper. Bake it from one and 
a half to two hours, and let the oven 
be well heated when the cake is first 
put in, as, if this is not the case, the 
currants will all sink to the bottom of 
it. To make this preparation light, 
the yolks and whites of the eggs should 
be beaten separately and added sepa- 
rately to the other ingredients. A 
glass of wine is sometimes added to 
the mixture, but this is scarcely neces- 
sary, as the cake will be found to be 
quite rich enough without it. 

Common Seed-Cake. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 2 pounds of dough, \ pound of 
good di'ipping, 6 ounces of moist sugar, ^ 
ounce of caraway seeds, 1 egg. 

Mode. — If the dough is sent in from 
the baker's, put it into a basin, covered 
with a cloth, and set it in a warm 
place to rise. Then with a wooden 
spoon beat the dripping to a liquid, 
add it, with the other ingredients, to 
the dough, and beat it until everything 
is very thoroughly mixed. Put it into 
a buttered tin, and bake the cake for 
rather more than two hours. 

Soda-Cake. — Ingredients. — i 
pound of butter, 1 pound of flour, ^ 
pound of currants, J pound of moist 
sugar, 1 teacupful of milk, 3 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda. 

Mode. — Rub the butter into the 
flour, add the currants and sugar, and 
mix these ingredients well together. 
Whisk the eggs well, stir them to the 
flour, etc., with the milk, in which the 
soda should be previously dissolved, 
and beat the whole up together with a 
wooden spoon or beater. Divide the 
dough into two pieces, put them into 
buttered moulds or cake-tins, and bake 
in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. 
The mixture must be extremely well 
beaten up, and not allowed to stand 
after the soda is added to it, but must 
be placed in the oven immediately. 



Great care must also be taken that the 
cakes are quite done through, which 
may be ascertained by thrusting a 
knife into the middle of them : if the 
blade looks bright when withdrawn, 
they are done. If the tops acquire too 
much color before the inside is sufii- 
ciently baked, cover them over with a 
piece of clean white paper, to prevent 
them from burning. 

Icing for Cakes. — White of 3 eggs, 
1 pound of sugar, flavoring of vanilla 
or lemon. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a high 
froth, then add to them a quarter ot a 
pound of white sugar pounded and 
sifted, flavor it with vanilla or lemon, 
and beat it with a large spoon in each 
hand until it is light ana very white, 
but not quite so stiff" as meringue mix- 
ture. The longer it is beaten the more 
firm it will become. Beat it until it 
may be s^jread smoothly on the cake. 

How to " Ornament " with Icing. 
— If you wish to " ornament " your 
cake after the fashion of the confec- 
tioners, when the coating has become 
" hard dry," form a sheet of writing 
paper into a cone, fill with icing, and 
doubling over the top to secure the 
contents, press the pajjer gently with 
one hand, while guiding the point with 
the other, so that the icing will flow 
readily from the point. The exercise 
of a little artistic talent, with dexter- 
ous handling, — trimming and slitting 
the point of the cone occasionally — 
will enable you to form some of the 
very pleasing objects you see in the 
show-windows, such as cross-lines, ini- 
tials, names, pierced hearts, Cupids, 
birds, flowers, vines, leaves, etc. 

A Rich Plum Cake. — Time, two 
hours or more. 

1 pound of fresh butter, 12 eggs, 1 
quart ofjiour, 1 pound of moist sugar, J 
a pound of mixed spice, 3 pounds of cur- 
rants, 1 pound of raisins, J a pound of 
almonds, J a pound of candied peel. 

Beat the butter to a cream with your 
hand, and stir into it the yolks of the 
twelve eggs well beaten with the sugar; 
then add the spice and the almonds 
chopped very fine. Stir in the flour; 



CAKES. 



249 



add the ourranta, washed and dried, 
the raisins chopped up, and the 
candied peel cut into pieces. As each 
ingredient is added, three teaspoonfuls 
of German yeast, a little milk, and 
nutmeg. 

Put the flour, sugar, and nutmeg 
into a bowl, and mix it thoroughly 
with three teaspoonfuls of German 
yeast. Set it to rise, and just before 
setting it in the oven mix it up with 
the butter, warmed in a little milk, as 
stiff as you can, and bake it one hour. 
Add a few caraway seeds or citron, if 
you please. 

Plain Short Bread. — Time, twenty- 
five to thirty minutes for three cakes. 

1 pound of flour, \ a pound of butter, 
8 ounces of brown sugar. 

Mix these ingredients and roll them 
out thick, and bake. 

Molasses Cake. — Take one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of water, one small tablespoonful of 
baking soda, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, four cups of flour, half cup 
of lard (or quarter cup of butter), dis- 
solve the soda and cream of tartar in 
the water, mix the lard (or butter) 
into the flour, then work the whole 
together ; put in the tin and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Fruit Cake. — One cup of butter, 
two cups of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cup of cofiee, one pound of 
chopped raisins, three eggs, a dessert- 
spoonful of each kind of spice, one 
nutmeg, teaspoonful of saleratus. Add 
flour enough to make it a little stifFer 
than pound cake. This cake will keep 
a long time. A little citron in very 
thin slices through the cake improves 
it, and currants may be substituted for 
part of the raisins. 

Pork Cake. — Two cups of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of sour 
milk, one pound of pork minced fine, 
one pound of raisins, four eggs, one 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, stir as 
fruit cake. Warranted to keep for six 
months. 

Butter Cake. — Take half a pound 
of butter, beaten to a cream, half a 



pound of coffee sugar, half a pound 
of corn starch. Take one spoonful of 
sugar and one of starch. Stir it into 
the butter. Do so with all, till both 
starch and sugar are all stirred into 
the butter. Take four eggs, beat one 
yolk in at a time, one half cup of 
milk, put whites of eggs in fast. One 
cup of flour, half a teaspoonful of 
soda, and one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, should be dissolved in the milk. 

Tea Cakes. — Take of flour one 
pound ; sugar, one ounce ; butter, one 
ounce ; muriatic acid, two drams ; 
bicarbonate of soda, two drams ; milk 
six ounces; water, six ounces. Rub 
the butter into the flour ; dissolve the 
sugar and soda in the milk, and the 
acid in the water. First add the milk, 
etc., to the flour, and partially mix ; 
then the water and acid, and mix well 
together ; divide into three portions, 
and bake twenty-five minutes. Flat 
round tins or earthen pans are the best 
to bake them in. If the above be 
made with baking powder, a teaspoon- 
ful may be substituted for the acid and 
soda in the foregoing recipe, and all 
the other directions carried out as be- 
fore stated. If buttermilk is used, the 
acid, milk, and water must be left out. 
Gingerbread Snaps. — One pound 
of flour, half a pound of molasses, half 
a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound 
of butter, half an ounce of best pre- 
pared ginger, sixteen drops of essence 
of lemon, potash the size of a nut dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of hot water. 

Drop Cakes. — One pint of flour, 
half a pound of butter, quarter of a 
pound of pounded lump sugar, half a 
nutmeg grated, a handful of currants, 
two eggs, and a large pinch of car- 
bonate of soda, or volatile salts. To 
be baked in a slack oven for ten min- 
utes or a quarter of an hour. The 
above quantity will make about thirty 
excellent cakes. 

Cake of Mixed Fruits. — Extract 
the juice from red currants by sim- 
mering them very gently for a few 
minutes over a slow fire ; strain it 
through folded muslin, and to one 
pound of the juice add a pound and » 



250 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



half of nonsuches, or of freshly-gath- 
ered apples, pared, and rather deeply 
cored, that the fibrous part may be 
avoided. Boil these quite slowly until 
the mixture is perfectly smooth ; then, 
to evaporate part of the moisture, let 
the boiling be quickened. In from 
twenty-five to thirty minutes, draw 
the pan from the fire, and throw in 
gradually a pound and a quarter of 
sugar in fine powder; mix it well with 
the fruit, and when it is dissolved, con- 
tinue the boiling rapidly for twenty 
minutes longer, keeping the mixture 
constantly stirred ; put it into a mould, 
and store it, when cold, for winter use, 
or serve it for dessert, or for the second 
course ; in the latter case, decorate it 
with spikes of almonds, blanched, and 
heap solid whipped cream round it, or 

Sour a custard into the dish. For 
essert, it may be garnished with dice 
of the palest apple jelly. Juice of red 
currants, one pound ; apples (pared 
and cored), one pound and a half. 
Twenty-five to thirty minutes. Sugar, 
one pound and a half, — twenty min- 
utes. 

Banbury Cakes. — Roll out the paste 
about half an inch thick, and cut it 
into pieces ; then roll again till each 
piece becomes twice the size. Put 
some Banbury meat in the middle of 
one side, fold the other over it, and 
pinch it up into a somewhat oval shape ; 
flatten it with your hand at the top, 
letting the seam be quite at the bot- 
tom ; rub the tops over with the white 
of an egg, laid on with a brush, and 
du&t loaf sugar over them ; bake in a 
moderate oven. The meat for this cake 
is made thus : — Beat up a quarter of a 
pound of butter until it becomes in the 
state of cream ; then mix with it half 
a pound of candied orange and lemon- 
peel, cut tine ; one pound of currants, 
a quarter of an ounce of ground cinna- 
mon, and a quarter of an ounce of all- 
spice : mix all well together, and keep 
in ajar till wanted for use. 

Bath Buns. — A quarter of a pound 
af Hour, four yolks and three whites of 
eggs, with four spoonfuls of solid fresh 
yeast. Beat in a bowl, and set before 



the fire to rise; then rub into one 
pound of flour ten ounces of butter. 
Put in half a pound of sugar, and car- 
away-comfits. When the eggs and 
yeast are pretty light, mix by degrees 
all together ; throw a cloth over it, and 
set before the fire to rise. Make the 
buns, and, when on the tins, brush over 
with the yolk of egg and milk ; strew 
them with caraway-comfits ; bake in a 
quick oven. 

Pic-Nic Biscuits. — Take two ounces 
of fresh butter, and well work it with 
a pound of flour. Mix thoroughly' 
with it half a saltspoonful of pure car- 
bonate of soda, two ounces of sugar. 
Mingle thoroughly with the flour, make 
up the paste with spoonfuls of milk — 
it will require scarcely a quarter of a 
pint. Knead smooth, roll a quarter of 
an inch thick, cut in rounds about the 
size of the top of a small wineglass. 
Roll these out thin, prick them well, 
lay them on lightly floured tins, and 
bake in a gentle oven until crisp. 
When cold put into dry canisters. Thin 
cream used instead of milk in the paste 
will enrich the biscuits. Caraway 
seeds or ginger can be added, to vary 
these, at pleasure. 

Ginger Biscuits and Cakes.— Work 
into small crumbs three ounces of but- 
ter, two pounds of flour, and three 
ounces of powdered sugar and two of 
ginger, in fine powder. Knead into a 
stifl' paste, with new milk ; roll thin, 
cut out with a cutter; bake in a slow 
oven until crisp through. Keep of a 
pale color. Additional sugar may be 
used when a sweeter biscuit is desired. 
For good ginger cakes, — butter, six 
ounces, sugar eight, for each pound of 
flour ; wet the ingredients into a paste 
with eggs. A little lemon-peel grated 
will give an agreeable flavor. 

Sugar Biscuits. — Cut the butter 
into the flour. Add the sugar and car- 
away seeds. Pour in the brandy, and 
then the milk ; lastly, put in the pearl- 
ash. Stir all well with a knife, and 
mix it thoroughly till it becomes a 
lump of dough. Flour your i>aste- 
board, and lay the dough on it. Knead 
it very well. Divide it into eight oi 



RELISHES. 



261 



ten pieces, and knead each piece sepa- 
rately. Then put them all together, 
and knead them very well into one 
lump. Cut the dough in half, and roll 
it out into sheets about half an inch 
tlick. Beat the sheets of dough very 
hard on both sides with the rolling-pin. 
Cut them out into round cakes with the 
edge of a tumbler. Butter iron pans, 
and lay the cakes in them. Bake them 
of a very pale - brown. If done toe 
much, they will lose their taste. Let 
the oven be hotter at the top than at 
the bottom. These cakes kept in a 
stone jar, closely covered from the air, 
will continue perfectly good for several 
months. 

Ginger Snaps, — Time, twenty min- 
utes to bake. 

J pound of molasses, \ pound of brown 
sugar, 1 pound of flour, 1 tablespoonful 
of ground ginger, 1 of caraway seeds. 

Work a quarter of a pound of butter 
into a pound of fine flour, then mix 
it with the molasses, brown sugar, 
ginger, and caraway seeds. Work it 
all well together, and form it into 
cakes not larger than a crown piece ; 
place them on a baking tin in a mod- 
erate oven, when they will be dry and 
crisp. 

To Make Good Plain Buns. — In- 
gredients, —1 pound of flour, 6 
ounces of good butter, \ pound of sugar, 
1 egg, nearly \ pint of milk, 2 small tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, a few drops 
of essence of lemon. 

Mode. — Warm the butter, without 
oiling it ; beat it with a wooden spoon ; 
stir the flour in gradually with the 
sugar, and mix these ingredients well 
together. Make the milk lukewarm, 
beat up with it the yolk of the egg and 
the essence of lemon, and stir these to 
the flour, etc. Add the baking-powder, 
beat the dough well for about ten min- 
utes, divide it into twenty-four pieces, 
put them_ into buttered tins or cups, 
and bake in a brisk oven from twenty 
to thirty minutes. 

Snow Cake (a genuine Scotch 
recipe).— Ingredients.— 1 jDownci of 
arrowroot, ^ pound of pounded white 
tugar, ^ pound of butter, the whites of 



6 eggs, flavoring to taste, of essence of 
almonds, or vanilla, or lemon. 

Alode. — Beat the butter to a cream ; 
stir in the sugar and arrowroot grad- 
ually, at the same time beating the 
mixture. Whisk the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff" froth, add them to the 
other ingredients, and beat well for 
twenty minutes. Put in whichever of 
the above flavorings may be preferred ; 
pour the cake into a buttered mould 
or tin, and bake it in a moderate oven 
from one to one hour and a half. 

Baker's Gingerbread.— Two cups 
of molasses (New Orleans best), four 
tablespoonfuls of butter stirred to- 
gether without melting ; add one cup 
of flour, two tablespoonfuls of soda 
dissolved in one cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of alum dissolved in one- 
third of a cup of boiling water, and 
one tablespoonful of ginger. Stir all 
well together, adding flour gradually. 
Eoll thin, cut in slices, and bake quickly. 
RELISHES, - Toasted Cheese, or 
W elsh Rare-bit, — Ingredients. — 
Slices of bread, butter, rich cheese, mus- 
tard, and pepper. 

Mode. — Cut the bread into slices 
about half an inch in thickness ; pare 
off the crust, toast the bread slightly 
without hardening or burning it, and 
spread it with butter. Cut some slices, 
not quite so large as the bread, from a 
good rich fat cheese ; lay them on the 
toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; be 
careful that the cheese does not burn, 
and let it be equally melted. Spread 
over the top a little made mustard and 
a seasoning of pepper, and serve very 
hot, with very hot plates. To facil- 
itate the melting of the cheese, it may 
be cut into thin flakes or toasted on 
one side before it is laid on the bread. 
As it is so essential to send this disli 
hot to table, it is a good plan to 
melt the cheese in small round silver 
or metal pans, and to send these pans 
to table, allowing one for each guest. 
Slices of dry or buttered toast should 
always accompany them, with mus- 
tard, pepper, and salt. 

Time, about five minutes to melt the 
cheese. 



252 



YOU askI — I'll tell! 



Mock Crab — Sailor Fashion.— 

Cut a slice of rich cheese rather thin, 
but of good size round. Mash it up 
with a fork to a pfiste, mix it with vin- 
egar, mustard, and pepper. It has a 
great flavor of crab. 

Toasted Cheese. — Time, ten min- 
utes. 

(Jiitc-qual quantities of rich cheese, 
and having pared into extremely small 
pieces, place it in a pan with a little 
milk, and a small slice of butter. Stir 
it over a slow fire until melted and 
quite smooth. Take it off the fire 
quickly, mix the yolk of an egg with 
it, and brown it in a toaster before the 
fire. 

To Make Hot Buttered Toast.— 
A loaf of household bread about two 
days old answers for making toast bet- 
ter than cottage bread, the latter not 
being a good shape, and too crusty for 
the purpose. Cut as many nice even 
slices as may be required, rather more 
than one-fourth of an inch in thick- 
ness, and toast them before a very 
bright fire, without allowing the bread 
to blacken, which spoils the appear- 
ance and flavor of all toast. When 
of a nice color on both sides, put it on 
a hot plate, divide some good butter 
into small pieces, place them on the 
toast, set this before the fire, and when 
the butter is just beginning to melt, 
spread it lightly over the toast. Trim 
ofl" the crust and ragged edges, divide 
each round into four pieces, and send 
the toast quickly to table. Some per- 
sons cut the slices of toast across from 
corner to corner, so making the pieces 
of a three-cornered shape. Soyer 
recommends that each slice should be 
cut into pieces as soon as it is buttered, 
and when all are ready, that they 
should be piled lightly on the dish they 
are intended to be served on. He says 
that by cutting through four or five 
slices at a time, all the butter is 
squeezed out of the upper ones, while 
the bottom one is swimming in fat 
liquid. It is highly essential to use 
good butter for making this dish. 

Anchovy Toast is made by spread- 
ing anchovy paste u])Ou butterea toast 



made as above, or if preferred, dry 
toast may be used. It is a delicious 
relish. 

To Make Pancakes. --Ingredi- 
ents. — Eggs, jiour, milk; to every egg 
allow 1 ou7ice of flour, about 1 gill qjf 
milk, J salispoo7i/ul oj salt. 

Mode. — Ascertain that the eggs are 
fresh, break each one separately in a 
cup, whisk them well in a basin, add 
the flour, salt, and a few drops of milk, 
and beat the whole to a perfectly 
smooth batter, then pour in by degrees 
the remainder of the milk. The pro- 
portion of this latter ingredient must 
be regulated by the size of the eggs, 
etc., etc.; but the batter, when ready 
for frying, should be of the consistency 
of thick cream. Place a small frying- 
pan on the fire to get hot ; let it be 
delicately clean, or the pancakes will 
stick, and when quite hot, put into it a 
small piece of butter, allowing about 
half an ounce to each pancake. When 
it is melted, pour in the batter, about 
half a teacupful to a pan five inches in 
diameter, and fry it for about four 
minutes, or until it is nicely brown on 
one side. By only pouring in a small 
quantity of batter, and so making the 
pancakes thin, the necessity of turning 
them (an operation rather difficult to 
unskilful cooks) is obviated. When 
the pancake is done, sprinkle over it 
some pounded sugar, roll it up in the 
pan, and take it out with a large slice, 
and place it on a dish before the fire. 
Proceed in this manner until sufficient 
are cooked for a dish, then send them 
quickly to table, and continue to 
send in a further quantity, as pancakes 
are never good unless eaten almost im- 
mediately they com6 from the frying- 
pan. The batter may be flavored with 
a little grated lemon-rind, or the pan- 
cakes may have preserves rolled in 
them instead of sugar. Send sifted 
sugar and a cut lemon to table with 
them. To render the pancakes very 
light, the yolks and whites of the eggs 
should be beaten separately, and the 
whites added the last thing to the 
batter before frying. 

Time, from four to five minutes for 



PRESERVING FRUIT. 



253 



a pancake that does not require turn- 
ing ; from six to eight minutes for a 
thicker one. 

Savory Omelet. — Make batter as for 
a pancake, chop a little parsley and 
green onions, and pepper and salt, stir 
in, and fry in plenty of lard. It may 
be served either dry or with gravy. 

Preserving Fruit. — The grand 
secret of preserving is to deprive the 
fruit of its water of vegetation in the 
shortest time possible ; for which pur- 
pose the fruit ought to be gathered 
just at the point of proper maturity. 
An ingenious French writer considers 
fruit of all kinds as having four dis- 
tinct periods of maturity — the ma- 
turity of vegetation, of honeyfication, 
of expectation, and of coction. 

The First Period he considers to 
be that when, having gone through 
the vegetable processes up to the 
ripening, it appears ready to drop 
spontaneously. This, however, is a 
period which arrives sooner in warm 
climates than in cold ones, but its 
absolute presence may be ascertained 
by the general tilling out of the rind, 
by the bloom, by the smell, and by the 
facility with which it may be plucked 
from the branch. 

The Second Period, or that of 
Honeyfication, consists in the ripeness 
and flavor which fruits of all kinds 
acquire if plucked a few days before 
arriving at their first maturity, and 
preserved under a proper degree of 
temperature. Apples may acquire or 
arrive at this second degree of ma- 
turity upon the tree, but it too often 
happens that the flavor of the fruit is 
thus lost, for fruit over- ripe is always^ 
found to have parted with a portiof 
of its flavor. 

The Third Stage, or of Expecta- 
tion, as the theorist quaintly terff-s 
it, is that which is acquired by pulf'y 
fruits, which, though suflUciently ri.ie 
to drop off" the tree, are even tb'in 
hard and sour. This is the case w -th 
several kinds both of apples and peirs, 
not to mention other fruits, whicl al- 
ways improve after keeping in the 
•-jnfectionery, — but with respect to 



the medlar and the quince, ihis ma- 
turity of expectation is absolutely 
necessary. 

The Fourth Degree of maturity, 
or of Coction, is completely artificial, 
and is nothing more nor less than the 
change produced upon fruit by the aid 
of culinary heat. 

Hints about Making Preserves. — 
It is not generally known that boiling 
fruit a long time, and skimming it well, 
without sugar y and without a cover to 
the preserving-pan, is a very economi- 
cal and excellent way — economical, 
because the bulk of the scum rises 
from the fruit, and not from the 
sugar; but the latter should be good. 
Boiling it without a cover allows the 
evaporation of all the watery particles 
therefrom, and renders the preserves 
firm and well flavored. The propor- 
tions are, three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. Jam made 
in this way of currants, strawberries, 
raSj^vberries, or gooseberries, is excel- 
lem The sugar should be added after 
the skimming is completed. 

To Make a Syrup. — Dissolve one 
poui>d of sugar in about a gill of water, 
boi) for a few minutes, skimming it till 
quis e clear. To every two pounds of 
suf.ar add the white of one egg A^ell 
bsaten. Boil very quickly, and skim 
crefuUy while boiling. In the sea- 
son for " preserves " our readers may 
t>e glad of the above instructions, 
Thich have been adopted with great 
mccess. 

Covering for Preserves. — White 
paper cut to a suitable size, dipped in 
brandy, and put over the preserves 
when cold, and then a double paper 
tied over the top. All preserves should 
stand a night before they are covered. 
Instead of brandy, the white of eggs 
may be used to glaze the paper cover- 
ing, and the paper may be pasted round 
the edge of the pot instead of tied — it 
will exclude the air better. 

To Bottle Fruits. — Burn a match in 
a bottle to exhaust all air, then place 
in the fruit to be preserved, quite dry, 
and without blemish ; sprinkle sugar 
between each layer, put in the bung. 



254 



Yov ask! — I'll tell! 



and tie bladder over, setting the bottles, 
bung downwards, in a large stewpan 
of cold water, with hay between to 
prevent breaking. When the skin is 
just cracking, take them out. All 
preserves require exclusion from the 
air. Place a piece of paper dipped in 
sweet oil over the top of the fruit ; pre- 
pare thin paper, immersed in gum- 
water, and, while wet, press it over 
and around the top of the jar; as 
it dries, it will become quite firm and 
light. 

APPLES for keeping should be laid 
out on a dry floor for three weeks. 
They may then be packed away in 
layers, with dry straw between them. 
Each apple should be rubbed with a 
dry cloth as it is put away. They 
should be kept in a cool place, but 
should be sufficiently covered with 
straw to protect them from frost. They 
should be plucked on a dry day. 

Dried Apples are produced by tak- 
ing fine apples of good quality, and 
placing them in a very slow oven for 
several hours. Take them out occa- 
sionally, rub and press them flat. 
Continue until they are done. If they 
look dry, rub over them a little clari- 
fied sugar. 

Preserved Rhubarb. — Peel one 
pound of the finest rhubarb, and cut it 
into pieces of two inches in length ; 
add three-quarters of a pound of white 
sugar, and the rind and juice of one 
lemon — the rind to be cut into narrow 
strips. Put all into a preserving kettle, 
and simmer gently until the rhubarb 
8 quite soft ; take it out carefully with 
s silver spoon, and put it into jars ; 
then boil the syrup a sufficient time to 
make it keep well (say one hour), and 
pour it over the fruit. When cold, put 
a paper soaked in brandy over it, and 
tie the jars down with a bladder to 
exclude the air. This is a very good 
recij)e, and should be taken advantage 
of in the spring. 

Dry Apricots. — Gather before ripe, 
scald in a jar put into boiling water ; 
pare and stone them; put into a syrup 
of half their weight of sugar, in the 
proportion of half a pint of water to 



two pounds of sugar. Scald, and then 
boil until they are clear. Stand for two 
days in the syrup, then put into a thin 
candy, and scald them in it. Keep 
two days longer in the candy, heating 
them each day, and then lay them on 
glasses to dry. 

Preserved Peaches. — Wipe and 
pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter 
of the weight of fine sugar in powder. 
Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts 
very close ; throw the sugar over it, 
and then cover the fruit with brandy. 
Between the top and cover of the pot 
put a double piece of gray paper. Set 
the pot in a saucepan of water till the 
brandy is as hot as you can bear to put 
your finger into, but do not let it boil. 
Put the fruit into a jar, and pour on the 
brandy. Cover in same manner as 
preserves. 

To Preserve Peaches. — Procure 
glass jars with any simple and efiective 
stopper, select good solid peaches, pare 
and take out the stones, take one 
pound of the parings, one pint of water, 
half a pound of white sugar, boil well 
together for forty minutes in a brass 
kettle, then strain through a cloth, let 
the syrup cool, fill the jars with the 
pared peaches, pour in the syrup until 
the jars are full. Take a convenient 
vessel, put a cloth in the bottom, set in 
the jars, then fill the vessel or the space 
around the jars with cold water, to 
come within three inches of the top of 
the jars, set on the stove, bring grad- 
ually to a boil, boil well for thirty 
minutes, take the jars out of the vessel, 
put on the stoppers, screw tight while 
hot. Peaches put up in this way will 
stay solid, and keep the natural color 
and flavor for any length of time. 

Brandy Peaches. — Drop them into 
a weak boiling lye, until the skin can 
be wiped off. Make a thin syrup to 
cover them, boil until they are soft to 
the finger-nail ; make a rich syrup, and 
add, after they come from the fire, and 
while hot, the same quantity of brandy 
as syrup. The fruit must be covered. 

Preserved Plums. — Cut your plums 
in half (they must not be quite ripe), 
and take out the stones. Weigh the 



PRESERVING FRUIT. 



pluma, and allow a pound of loaf sugar 
to a pound of fruit. Crack the stones, 
take out the kernels, and break them 
in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels 
very slowly for about fifteen minutes, 
in as little water as possible. Then 
spread them on a large dish to cool, 
and strain the liquor. Next day add 
your syrup, and boil for fifteen minutes. 
Put into jars, pour the juice over when 
warm, and tie them up, when cold, 
with brandy paper. — Plums for com- 
mon use are very good done in molasses. 
Put your plums into an earthen vessel 
that holds a gallon, having first slit 
each plum with a knife. To three 

Juarts of plums put a pint of molasses, 
lover them over, and set them on hot 
coals in the chimney corner. Let them 
stew for twelve hours or more, occasion- 
ally stirring, and next day put them 
up in jars. Done in this manner, they 
will keep till the next spring. 
Red-Currant Jam. — Ingredients. 

— To evert/ pound of fruit allow f pound 
of loaf sugar. 

Mode. — Let the fruit be gathered on 
a fine day ; weigh it, and then strip 
the currants from the stalks ; put them 
into a preserving-pan with sugar in 
the above proportion ; stir them, and 
boil them for about three-quarters of 
an hour. Carefully remove the scum 
as it rises. Put the jam into pots, 
and, when cold, cover with oiled 
papers ; over these put a piece of tissue- 
paper brushed over on both sides with 
the white of an egg ; press the paper 
round the top of the pot, and, when 
dry, the covering will be quite hard 
and air-tight. Black-currant jam 
should be made in the same manner 
as the above. 

Time, half to three-quarters of an 
hour, reckoning from the time the jam 
boils all over. Sufficient, allow from 
six to seven quarts of currants to make 
twelve one-pound pots of jam. Make 
this in July. 
Red-Currant Jelly.— Ingredients. 

— Red currants, to every pint of juice 
allow I pound of loaf sugar. 

Mode. — Have the fruit gathered in 
fine weather ; pick it. from the stalks, 



put it into a jar, and place this jar in 
a saucepan of boiling water over the 
fire, and let it simmer gently until the 
juice is well drawn from the currants ; 
then strain them through a jelly-bag 
or fine cloth, and, if the jelly is wished 
very clear, do not squeeze them too 
much, as the skin and pulp from the 
fruit will be pressed through with the 
juice, and so make the jelly muddy. 
Measure the juice, and to each pint 
allow three-quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar ; put these into a preserv- 
ing-pan, set it over the fire, and keep 
stirring the jelly until it is done, care- 
fully removing every particle of scum 
as it rises, using a wooden or silver 
spoon for the purpose, as metal or iron 
ones would spoil the color of the jelly. 
When it has boiled from twenty min- 
utes to half an hour, put a little of the 
jelly on a plate, and if firm when cool, 
it is done. Take it off the fire, pour it 
into small gallipots, cover each of the 
pots with an oiled paper, and then 
with a piece of tissue paper, brushed 
over on both sides with the white of 
an egg. Label the pots, adding the 
year when the jelly was made, and 
store away in a dry place. A jam may 
be made with the currants if they are 
not squeezed too dry, by adding a few 
fresh raspberries, and boiling all to- 
gether, with sufficient sugar to sweeten 
it nicely. As this preserve is not worth 
storing away, but is only for im- 
mediate eating, a smaller proportion 
of sugar than usual will be found 
enough ; it answers very well for chil- 
dren's puddings, or for a nursery pre- 
serve. Black-currant jelly can also be 
made from the above recipe. 

Time, from three-quarters to one 
hour to extract the juice ; twenty 
minutes to half hour to boil to a jelly. 
Sufficient, eight quarts of fruit will 
make from ten to twelve pots of jelly. 
Make this in July. 

iVote. — Should the above proportion of sugar not be 
fi>und sufficient for soQie tastes, add an extra quar- 
ter pound to every pint of juice, making altogether 
one pound. 

Saked Damsons for Winter use.— 

Ingredients. — 7b every pound of fruit 
ulloiv t) ounces of pounded sugar. 



256 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Mode. — Choose sound fruit, not too 
ripe ; pick off the stalks, weigh it, and 
to every pound allow the above pro- 
portion of pounded sugar. Put the 
fruit into large dry stone jars, sprinkle 
the sugar among it ; cover the jars with 
saucers, place them in a rather cool 
oven, and bake the fruit until it is 
quite tender. When cold, cover the 
top of the fruit with a piece of white 
paper cut to the size of the jar ; pour 
over this melted mutton suet about an 
inch thick, and cover the tops of the 
jars with thick brown paper, well tied 
down. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, 
and the fruit will remain good till the fol- 
lowing Christmas, but not much longer. 

Time, from five to six hours to bake 
the damsons, in a very cool oven. 
Make in September and October. 

Raspberry or Blackberry Jam. — 
Ingredients. — To every pound of 
raspberries allow 1 pound of sugar, \ 
pint of red-currant juice. 

Mode. — Let the fruit for this pre- 
serve be gathered in fine weather, and 
used as soon after it is picked as pos- 
sible. Take off the stalks, put the 
raspberries into the preserving-pan, 
break them well with a wooden spoon, 
and let them boil for a quarter of an 
hour, keeping them well stirred. Then 
add the currant juice and sugar, and 
boil again for half an hour. Skim the 
jam well after the sugar is added, or 
the preserve will not be clear. The 
addition of the currant juice is a very 
great improvement to this preserve, as it 
gives it a piquant taste, which the flavor 
of the raspberries seems to require. 

Time, quarter of an hour to simmer 
the fruit without the sugar ; half an 
hour after it is added. iSufficient, — 
allow about one pint of fruit to fill a 
one-pound pot. Seasonable in July and 
August. 

To Preserve Cherries. — Take 
cherries that are not very ripe, and al- 
low a pound of white sugar to each 
pound of them. Make syrup of the 
sugar, and just sufficient water to cover 
the cherries ; boil them with the stems 
on till transparent. If you wish to 
preserve them without the pits, remove 



them carefully, saving the juice ; make 
a syrup of it with white sugar, add 
very little water ; put in the cherries 
and boil them till of a thick consis- 
tency. They should be very ripe, if 
preserved in this way. Put them in 
small jars when cold, cork and seal 
them tight; put the jars in boxes filled 
with dry sand, and keep in a cool 
place. If a little brandy is turned 
over them when put in the jars, they 
will be less liable to ferment. It is 
very difficult to keep any acid fruit 
well which is preserved early in the 
summer. 

Bottling Cherries. — To every pound 
of fruit add six ounces of powdered 
lump sugar. Fill the jars with fruit; 
shake in the sugar over, and tie each 
jar down with two bladders, as there 
is danger of one bursting during the 
boiling. Place the jars in a boiler of 
cold water, and after the water has 
boiled, let them remain three hours; 
take them out, and when cool, put 
them in a dry place, where they will 
keep over a year. 

Tomato Jam. — Take ripe tomatoes, 
peel them and take out the seeds ; put 
them into a preserving kettle, with 
half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
tomatoes ; boil one or two lemons soft, 
then pound them fine, take out the 
pits, add the lemon to the tomato, and 
boil slowly ; mash to a smooth mass ; 
continue to stir until smooth and thick ; 
then put into jars or tumblers. 

To Can Tomatoes Whole. —Scald 
and remove the skin ; place in the 
jars until full. Boil twenty minutes, 
and at the same time boil some toma- 
toes in a dish or pan ; when ready to 
seal, fill up the jars or cans with toma- 
toes and juice from this dish, and seal 
boiling hot. Tomatoes should be 
cooked and canned in nothing but 
their own juice. 

Orange Marmalade. — Cut the 
oranges in half, then take out the pulp 
and juice, separating all the skins and 
pips. Put the rinds into salt and 
water for a night ; the next morning 
put them into a stewpan with fresh 
water. Let them stew until soft, so 



COifFECTIONERY. 



257 



that a straw can be run through them 
easily ; cut the peels into thin strips. 
To every pound of fruit add one pound 
and a half of coarse white sugar. Put 
the juice, pulp, and peel, with the 
sugar, into the stewpan and let it boil 
twenty minutes. Seville oranges must 
be used, and the marmalade is better 
if kept six months. The juice and 
grated rind of two lemons to every 
dozen oranges is a great improvement. 

How to Keep Grapes. — It is re- 
ported that a vineyardist in California 
keeps his grapes any desirable length 
of time by packing them, when per- 
fectly free from external moisture, in 
nail casks, the interstices filled with 
perfectly dry sawdust, and then bury- 
ing them in the ground, under a shed. 

To Remove Burnt Fruit or other 
Burnt Victuals from a Kettle. — 
Put a shovelful of ashes from the 
stove-hearth into the kettle, a quart of 
water, and boil. In a few minutes all 
the burnt crust may be easily washed 
off of the kettle. 

Strawberry Jam. — Time, one hour. 

To 6 pounds of strawberries allow 3 
pounds of sugar. 

Procure some fine scarlet strawber- 
ries, strip off the stalks, and put them 
into a preserving pan over a moderate 
fire ; boil them for half an hour, keep- 
ing them constantly stirred. Break 
the sugar into small pieces, and mix 
them wjth the strawberries after they 
have been removed from the fire. 
Then place it again over the fire, and 
boil it for another half hour very 
quickly. Put it into pots, and when 
cold, cover it over with brandy papers 
and a piece '^f paper moistened with the 
white of an egg over the tops. 

Black Currant Jam. — Titiie, three- 
quarters of an hour to an hour. 

To every pound of currants allow | of 
a pound of sugar. 

Gather the currants when they are 
thoroughly ripe and dry, and pick them 
from the stalks. Bruise them lightly 
in a large bowl, and to every pound of 
fruit put three-quarters of a pound of 
finely - beaten loaf sugar. Put sugar 
»nd fruit into a preserving pan, and boil 
17 



them from three-quarters to ono hour, 
skimming as the scum rises, and stir- 
ring constantly ; then put the jam into 
pots, cover them with brandy paper, 
and tie them closely over. 

Black Currant Jelly. — Tiine, two 
hours. 

To every 5 quarts of currants allow 
rather more than ^ a pint of water; to 
every pint of Juice 1 pound of loaf 
sugar. 

Gather the currants when ripe on a 
dry day ; strip them from the stalks, 
and put them into an earthen pan, or 
jar, and to every five quarts allow the 
above proportion of water. Tie the pan 
over, and set it in the oven for an hour 
and a quarter; then squeeze out the 
juice through a coarse cloth, and to 
every pint of juice put a pound of loaf 
sugar, broken into pieces, boil it for 
three-quarters of an hour, skimming 
it well ; then pour it into small pots, 
and when cold, put brandy papers 
over them, and tie them closely over. 

CONFECTIONERY.— Thick Ap- 
ple Jelly or Marmalade (for Entre- 
mets or Dessert Dishes). — Ingredi- 
ents. — Apples; to every pound of pulp 
allow f pound of sugar, ^ teaspoonful of 
minced lemon-peel. 

Mode. — Peel, core, and boil the 
apples with only sufficient water to 
prevent them from burning ; beat them 
to a pulp, and to every pound of pulp 
allow the above proportion of sugar 
in lumps. Dip the lumps into water, 
put these into a saucepan, and boil till 
the syrup is thick and can be well 
skimmed, then add this syrup to the 
apple pulp, with the minced lemon- 
peel, and stir it over a quick fire for 
about twenty minutes, or until the 
apples cease to stick to the bottom of 
the pan. The jelly is then done, and 
may be poured into moulds which 
have been previously dipped in water, 
when it will turn out nicely for dessert 
or a side-dish ; for the latter a little 
custard should be poured round, and 
it should be garnished with strips of 
citron or stuck with blanched almonds. 

Time, from a half to three-quarters 
of ar hour to reduce the apples to a 



258 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



pulp ; twenty minutes to boil after the 
sugar is added. 
Stewed Apples and Custard— (a 

pretty dish for a Juvenile Supper). — 
iNQREDiicNTS. — 7 good sized apples, the 
rind of J leinon or 4 cloves, \ pound of 
tugar, \ pint of water, ^ pint of custard. 

Mode. — Pare and take out the cores 
of the apples without dividing them, 
and, if possible, leave the stalks on ; 
boil the sugar and water together for 
ten minutes, then put in the apples 
with the lemon-rind or cloves, which- 
ever flavor may be preferred, and sim- 
mer gently until they are tender, tak- 
ing care not to let them break. Dish 
them neatly on a glass dish, reduce the 
syrup by boiling it quickly for a few 
minutes ; let it cool a little, then pour 
it over the apples. Have ready quite 
half a pint of custard, pour it round, 
but not over, the apples when they are 
quite cold, and the dish is ready for 
table. A few almonds blanclied and 
cut into strips, and stuck in the apples, 
would improve their appearance. 

Tivie, from twenty to thirty minutes 
to stew the apples. 

Arrowroot Blanc - Mange — ( an 
inexpensive Supper Dish). — Ingre- 
DIKNTS. — 4 heaped tablespoonfula of ar- 
rowroot, 1 \ pinh of nidk, 3 laurel leaves 
or the rind of ^ a lemon, sugar to ta^te. 

Mode. — Mix to a smooth batter the 
arrowroot with a half pint of milk ; 
put the other pint on the fire, with 
laurel leaves or lemon-peel, whichever 
may be preferred, and let the milk 
steep until it is well flavored. Then 
strain the milk, and add it, boiling, to 
the mixed arrowroot ; sweeten it with 
sifted sugar, and let it boil, stirring it 
all the time, till it thickens sufficiently 
to come from the saucepan. Grease a 
mould with pure salad-oil, i)Our in the 
blanc-mange, and when quite set, turn 
it out on a dish, and pour round it a 
compote of any kind of fruit, or garnish 
it with jam. A table-spoon ful of brandy 
stirred in just before the blancmange 
is moulded, very much improves the 
flavor of this sweet dish. 

Time, altogether, half an hour. 

Boiled Custards. — Ingrkuients. 



— 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 ounou of 
loaf sugar, 3 laurel leaves, or the rind 
of i a lemon, or a few drops of essence 
of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. 

Mode. — Put the milk into a lined 
saucepan, with the sugar, and which- 
ever of the above flavoritigs may be 
preferred (the lemon-rind Savors cus 
tards most deliciously), and let the 
milk steep by the side of the fire until 
it is well flavored. Bring it to the 
point of boiling, then strain it into a 
basin ; whisk the eggs well, and, when 
the milk has cooled a little, stir in the 
eggs, and strain this mixture into a 
jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of 
boiling water over the fire. Keep 
stirring the custard one way until it 
thickens ; but on no account allow it 
to reach the boiling point, as it will 
instantly curdle and be full of lumps. 
Take it off the fire, stir in the brandy, 
and, when this is well-mixed with the 
custard, pour it into glasses, which 
should be rather more than three parts 
full. Grate a little nutmeg over the 
top, and the dish is ready for table. 
To make custards look and eat better, 
ducks' eggs should be used, when ob- 
tainable ; they add very much to the 
flavor and richness, and so many are 
not required as of the ordinary eggs — 
four ducks' eggs to the pint of milk 
making a delicious custard. When 
desired extremely rich and good, 
cream should be substituted for the 
milk, and double the quantity of eggs 
used, to those mentioned, omitting the 
whites. 

Time, half an hour to infuse the 
lemon-rind, about ten minutes to stir 
the custard. 

Lemon Blanc-Mange. —Ingredi- 
ents. — 1 quart of milk, the yolks of 4 
eggs, 3 ounces of ground rice, 6 ounces 
of pounded sugar, IJ ounces of fresh 
butter, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice 
of 2, i ounce of gelatine. 

Mode. — Make a custard with the 
yolks of the eggs and half a pint of the 
milk, and, when done, put it into a 
basin ; put half the remainder of the 
milk into a saucepan with the ground 
rice, fresh butter, lemon-rind, and 



CANDIES. 



259 



three ounces of the sugar, and let these 
ingredients boil until the mixture is 
stiff, stirring them continually ; when 
done, pour it into the bowl where the 
custard is, mixing both well together. 
Put the gelatine with the rest of the 
milk into a saucepan, and let it stand 
by the side of the fire to dissolve. 
Boil for a minute or two, stir carefully 
into the basin, adding three ounces more 
of pounded sugar. When cold, stir in 
the lemon-juice, which should be care- 
fully strained, and pour the mixture 
into a well-oiled mould, leaving out 
the lemon-peel, and set the mould in a 
pan of cold water until wanted for table. 
Use eggs that have rich-looking yolks ; 
and, should the weather be very warm, 
rather a larger proportion of gelatine 
must be allowed. 

Time, altogether, half an hour. 

How to Mould Bottled Jellies. — 
Uncork the bottle. Place it in a 
saucepan of hot water until the jelly 
is reduced to a liquid state. Taste it, 
to ascertain whether it is sufficiently 
flavored, and if not, add a little wine. 
Pour the jelly into moulds which have 
been soaked in water. Let it set, and 
turn it out by placing the mould in 
hot water for a minute ; then wipe the 
outside, put a dish on the top, and 
turn it over quickly. The jelly should 
then slip easily away from the mould, 
and be quite firm. It may be gar- 
nished as taste dictates. 

CANDIES.— Plain Taify. — Boil a 
quart of molasses over a slow fire for 
half an hour, keep stirring it, do not 
let it boil over; add half teaspoonful 
of powdered carbonate of soda ; when 
it thickens, drop a little in cold water; 
if it becomes brittle it is done ; flavor 
it with vanilla, lemon, or any of the 
essences, to taste, then pour it into a 
shallow dish that has been buttered ; 
set away to cool. 

Everton Taffy. — Melt three ounces 
of fresh butter and one pound of brown 
sugar ; boil over a clear fire until the 
syrup becomes brittle, when drop into 
cold water : this will require about a 
quarter of an hour; (if desired it may 
ne flavored when first put over the fire 



with essence of lemon or ground gin- 
ger ;) pour into a shallow dish buttered, 
and set away to cool. 

Molasses Candy. — One pound gran- 
ulated sugar, two pints best New Or- 
leans molasses, boil slowly ten min- 
utes, then add three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, and boil until it becomes brit- 
tle, when a little is dropped into cold 
water, then stir in a little carbonate of 
soda, pour it into a dish, and work 
with the hand ; the more it is pulled 
out the whiter it will become. 

Note. — Some persons prefer three pints of mo- 
lasses, instead of sugar and molasses: before pour- 
ing it out of the kettle it may be flavored to the 
taste with any kind of extract. 

Ginger Candy. — One pound refined 
crushed sugar, one-third pint of water, 
boil it to a thin syrup, then take out a 
little of the syrup, and mix it smoothly 
with a teaspoonful of ground ginger, 
then stir it altogether in the kettle, 
boil it slowly a minute, then add the 
grated rind of a lemon, and keep stir- 
ring it until it will fall in a mass from 
the spoon. Should it accidentally be 
boiled too much, so as to fall into a 
powder, add a little water, and boil 
again ; when done, drop it on buttered 
.plates in small cakes. 

Cream Candy. — Boil three pounds 
of loaf sugar and half pint of water 
over a slow fire for half an hour, then 
add a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; keep 
it stirring, and boil it until it becomes 
brittle ; flavor it to taste with a little 
lemon, vanilla, or other extract, as 
preferred ; rub some butter on the 
hands, and pull it about until it be- 
comes white, then twist it, or cut it ' 
into the shape required. 

Cocoanut Candy. — Pare and grate 
a cocoanut, or cut into small pieces, 
for each half pound ; boil half pound 
loaf sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of 
water; when it comes to a boil, stir in 
the cocoanut, keep stirring until it is 
boiled brittle, then flavor it with lemon, 
or any other essence required ; immedi- 
ately pour it into a buttered dish, and 
cut it any form desired. 

Candy Drops. — May be made 



2G0 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



almost any flavor and color. Pound re- 
fined sugar, and sift it through a fine 
sieve, put it into an earthen vessel, 
with a little water, and a little of the 
flavoring extract required. (If too 
liquid the syrup will be too thin, and 
the drops will run together; if too 
thick, it cannot be poured out easily.) 
When well mixed into a stifl" paste, 
put it into a small saucepan and set it 
over the fire ; when it begins to bubble, 
stir it a little, and take it from the fire, 
and drop it in small lumps on sheets 
of buttered tin ; after standing two 
hours, place them inside the oven to 
finish drying; as soon as hard and trans- 
parent, take them away from the fire. 

Note. — Strawberry, raspberry, orange, clove, 
jessamine, or any otiier kind may be made by 
adding those extrac-ts before taliing the saucepan 
off the fire. The syrup may be colored before 
taking it off the lire, as follows: — For red, use 
carmine lakes or cochineal; for violet, use blue 
and carmine lakes ; for orange, use yellow lakes 
or saffron. 

Peppermint Lozenges.— Ingredi- 
ents. — 1 ounce picked gum tragacanth, 
soaked six hours, with 2 ounces tepid 
water, in a gallipot, and then prepared 
by squeezing or wringing it through a 
cloth, 1 J pounds fine icing sugar, and a 
teaspoonful essence of peppermint. 

Work the prepared gum with the 
flattened fist, on a very clean dish, 
until it becomes perfectly white and 
elastic, then gradually work in the 
sugar, adding the peppermint when 
the paste has acquired a compact, 
smooth, elastic substance : a few drops 
of thick wet cobalt blue should be 
added while working the mass, to give 
it a brilliant whiteness. This paste is 
now to be rolled out, with fine sugar 
dredged over the slab, to the thickness 
of two-penny pieces ; it may now be 
cut out with a circular cutter the size 
of a dime, and place them on a sugar- 
powdered paper to dry ; when quite 
dry, keep them in well-stoppered bot- 
tles in a dry place. 

Note. — Instead of using a circular cutter, they 
may be cut in squares with a buttered knife. 

Ginger Lozenges are made same 
as Peppermint, except one ounce of 



ground ginger to flavor, and a fei* 
drops thick wet gamboge to color. 

Hoarhound Lozenges. — Ingredi- 
ents. — 1 ounce of gum dragon, soaked 
in a \ of a pint of strong extract of hoar- 
hound, and 1 J pounds of fine icing sugar. 
Proceed the same aa for Peppermint 
Lozenges. 

Cinnamon Lozenges. — The same as 
Peppermint, except a dessertspoonful 
of essence of cinnamon for flavoring, 
and a few drops of thick wet burnt 
umber, with a pinch of carmine to color. 

Clove Lozenges. — The same as Pep- 
permint, except essence of cloves to 
flavor and a few drops of wet burnt 
umber to color. 

Orange Lozenges. — Ingredients. 
— 1 ounce prepared gum, IJ pounds fine 
sugar, 2 ounces orange ; sugar the gum 
to be soaked in 2 ounces of orange-flower 
water. Proceed same as for Peppermint 
Lozenges. 

Cough Lozenges. — Ingredients. 
— 1 ounce prepared gum soaked in 2 
ounces of orange-flower water, 2 pounds 
fine sugar, 50 drops of paregoric, 20 
drops ipecacuanha, \\ ounces syrup of 
squills. Work the gum on the slab with 
one-third of the sugar, gradually work 
in the syrup of squills, then the re- 
mainder of the sugar, and the ipecac- 
uanha. Finish this excellent lozenge 
the same as directed for Peppermint. 

Coltsfoot Lozenges. — Ingredients. 
— 1 ounce gum dragon, soaked in 2 ounces 
of orange-flower water, \\ pounds of fine 
sugar, and i ounce of essence of Coltsfoot. 
Proceed as for Peppermint Lozenges. 

Cayenne and Catechu Lozenges. — 
Ingredients. — 1 ounce gum dragon, 
soaked in 2 ounces of water, 2 pounds 
fine sugar, \ ounce essence Cayenne, and 
\ ounce prepared catechu. Proceed as 
for Peppermint Lozenges. 

Brown's Bronchial Troches. — In- 
gredients. — 4 ounces gum Arabic, 
soaked in 4 ounces of water, 1 J pounds 
fine sugar, 4 ounces pulverized cubebs, 1 
ounce pulverized extract of conium, and 
1 pound of pulverized extract of liquor- 
ice. Proceed as for Peppermint Loz- 
enges. Excellent for coughs and throat 
affections. 



ICE CREAM. 



261 



Ice Cream. — Freezing with Ice, 
— The use of ice in cooling depends 
upon the fact of its requiring a vast 
quantity of heat to convert it from a 
solid into a liquid state, or in other 
words, to melt it ; and the heat so re- 
quired is obtained from those objects 
with which it may be in contact. A 
pound of ice requires nearly as much 
heat to melt it as would be sufficient to 
make a pound of cold water boiling hot: 
hence its cooling power is extremely 
great. But ice does not begin to melt 
until the temperature is above the 
freezing-point, and therefore it cannot 
be employed in freezing liquids, etc., 
but only in cooling them. If, however, 
any substance is mixed with ice which 
is capable of causing it to melt more 
rapidly, and at a lower temperature, a 
still more intense cooling effect is the 
result ; such a substance is common 
salt (though rock salt is invariably used 
by professional manufacturers), and 
the degree of cold produced by the 
mixture of one part of salt with two 
parts of snow or pounded ice, is greater 
than thirty degrees below freezing. In 
making ice cream and dessert ices, the 
following articles are required : — 
Pewter ice - pots with tightly-fitting 
lids, furnished with handles ; wooden 
ice-pails, to hold the rough ice and 
salt, which should be stoutly made, 
about the same depth as the ice-pots, 
and nine or ten inches more in diam- 
eter, — each should have a hole in the 
side, fitted with a good cork, in order 
that the water from the melted ice may 
be drawn off as required. In addition, 
a broad spatula, about four inches 
long, rounded at the end, and furnished 
with a long wooden handle, is neces- 
sary to scrape the frozen cream from 
the sides of the ice-pot, and for mixing 
the whole smoothly together ; or a long 
knife, having a straight blade, will an- 
swer the purpose. When making ices, 
place the mixture of cream and fruit 
to be frozen in the ice-pot, cover it 
with the lid, and put the pot in the 
ice-pail, which proceed to fill up with 
coarsely-pounded ice and salt, in the 
proportion of about one part of salt to 



three ni ice. Let the whole remain a 
few minutes (if covered by a blanket, 
so much the better), then whirl the pot 
briskly by the handle for a few min- 
utes, take off the lid, and with a 
spatula, or knife, scrape the iced cream 
from the sides, mixing the whole 
smoothly. Put on the lid, and whirl 
again, repeating all the operations 
every few minutes until the whole of 
the cream is well frozen. Great care 
and considerable labor are required in 
stirring, so that the whole cream may 
be smoothly frozen, and not in hard 
lumps. When finished, if it is required 
to be kept any time, the melted ice 
and salt should be allowed to escape, 
by removing the cork, and the pail 
filled up with fresh materials. It is 
scarcely necessary to add, that if any 
of the melted ice and salt is allowed 
to mix with the cream, the latter is 
spoiled. 

Note. — Amatenr ice cream makers are ni)t gen- 
eral I)' aware that the operation of '^beating" liy 
which the quality of the cream is vastly iniprnvid, 
and the quantity turned out nearly doubled ; as, fur 
msXa.uce, five quarts of the mixed liquid cream will, 
when '^beaten up" after freezing, turn out, by 
measurement, from eight toten quarts of the luscioua 
delicacy. 

Freezing without Ice. — From 
the difficulty of obtaining ice in places 
distant from large towns, and in hot 
countries, and from the impractica- 
bility of keeping it any length of time, 
or, in fact, of keeping small quantities 
more than a few hours, its use is much 
limited, and many have been the at- 
tempts to obtain an efficient substitute. 
For this purpose various salts have 
been employed, which, when dissolved 
in water, or in acids, absorb a suf- 
ficient amount of heat to freeze sub- 
stances with which they may be placed 
in contact. 

Many of the freezing mixtures which 
are to be found described in books are 
incorrectly so named, for although 
they themselves are below the freezing 
point, yet they are not sufficiently 
powerful to freeze any quantity of 
water, or other substances, when placed 
in a vessel within them. 

1 he following is the composition of 



262 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



the new freezing preparation, which 
is now exported so largely to India, 
and the composition of which has hith- 
erto never been made public: Actual 
quantities — one pound of muriate of 
ammonia, or sal ammoniac, finely 
powdered, is to he intimately mixed 
with two pounds of nitrate of potash or 
saltpetre, also in powder ; this mix- 
ture we may call No. 1. No. 2 is 
formed by crushing three pounds of 
the best soda. In use, an equal bulk 
of both No. 1 and No. 2 is to be taken, 
stirred together, placed in the ice-pail 
surrounding the ice-pot, and rather 
less cold water poured on than will 
dissolve the whole; if one quart of No. 
1, and the same bulk of No. 2 are 
taken, it will require about one quart 
of water to dissolve them, and the 
temperature will fall, if the materials 
used are cool, to nearly thirty degrees 
below freezing. Those who fail, may 
trace their want of success to one or 
other of the following points: — the 
use of too small a quantity of the pre- 
paration, — the employment of a few 
ounces; whereas, in freezing ices, the 
ice-pot must be entirely surrounded 
with the freezing material : no one 
would attempt to freeze with four 
ounces of ice and salt. Again, too 
large a quantity of water may be used 
to dissolve the preparation, when all 
the excess of water has to be cooled 
down instead of the substance it is 
wished to freeze. All the materials 
used should be pure, and as cool as can 
be obtained. The ice-pail in which 
the mixture is made musst be of some 
non-conducting material, as wood, 
which \yill prevent the access of 
warmth from the air; and the ice- 
pot, in which the liquor to be frozen 
is placed, should be of pewter, and 
surrounded nearly to its top by the 
freezing mixture. Bear in mind that 
the making of ice cream, under any 
circumstances, is an operation requir- 
ing considerable dexterity and practice. 
Strawberry Ice Cream. — Take 
one pint of strawberries, one pint of 
cream, nearly half a pound of pow- 
dered white sugar, the juice of a 



lemon ; mash the fruit torough a sieve, 
and take out the seeds ; mix with the 
other articles, and freeze. A little 
new milk added makes the whole 
freeze more quickly. 

Raspberry Ice Cream. — The same 
as strawberry. These ices are often 
colored by cochineal, but the addition 
is not advantageous to the flavor. 
Strawberry or raspberry jam may be 
used instead of the fresh fruit, or equal 
quantities of jam and fruit employed. 
Of course the quantity of sugar must 
be proportionately diminished. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. — Boil one 
quart of milk, grate half pound best 
chocolate, and stir into the milk; let it 
boil until it becomes thick, then add 
a quarter of a pound of fine sugar ; 
when cool add one quart of cream, stir 
well and pour into the freezer. 

Cherry Ice Cream. — Pound half a 
pound unstoned preserved cherries, put 
them into a basin with a pint of cream, 
the juice of a lemon, and a quarter of 
a pint of syrup ; pass it through a sieve 
and freeze it. • 

Currant Ice Cream. — Put three 
large spoonfuls of currant jelly in a 
basin, with a quarter of a pint of syrup, 
the juice of three lemons, add one 
quart of cream and a little cochineal ; 
mix it well together, pass it through a 
sieve, then freeze it. 

Lemon Ice Cream. — Mix the juice 
of four lemons, the peel of one grated, 
and half a pint of syrup, with one pint 
of cream ; work it well together, pass it 
through a sieve, then freeze it. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. — Pound or 
grate the inside of a pineapple, rub 
one pound of this pulp through a 
strainer, then put it in a stewpan with 
three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar, 
the yolks of three eggs, and one and a 
half pints of cream ; mix well together, 
then place it over the fire to thicken, 
but do not let it boil, then pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it. 

Coffee Ice Cream. — Mix one large 
cupful of made coffee, quite strong, 
with half a pound of fine sugar, 
and the yolks of two eggs well beaten, 
into a stewpan j place it over the fire to 



WINE-MAKING. 



263 



thicken, stir it well, but do not let it 
boil ; pass it through a sieve, add one 
quart of cream, and then freeze it. 

Note. — Freeh fruits or jam, or the essence or ex- 
tracts of those fruits, may be used to flavor ice 
cream, but when fresh fruits are used it should 
always be well mixed with the sugar or syrup be- 
fnre adding the cream, and should be almost cold 
before mixing, or it is liable to curdle. In all 
cases where fine sugar is mentioned, finely pow- 
dered loaf sugar of the best quality is intended, 
and where syrup is mentioned, plain syrup is in- 
tended, and is made as follows : — Plain Syrup. — 
Take two and a half pounds of best loaf sugar, and 
apiut of water; dissolve the sugar in the water by 
heat, remove any scum that may arise, and strain 
while hot. 

Strawberry - Water Ice. — One 

large pottle of scarlet strawberries, the 
juice of a lemon, a pound of sugar, 
or one pint of strong syrup, half a pint 
of water. Mix, — first rubbing the 
fruit through a sieve, — and freeze. 

Raspberry-Water Ice, and Cur- 
rant-Water Ice, are made in the same 
manner as given above for Strawberry 
Ice. 

Lemon- Water Ice. — Lemon juice 
and water, each half a pint; strong 
syrup, one pint ; the rind of the lemons 
should be rasped off, before squeezing, 
with lump sugar, which is to be added 
to the juice ; mix the whole ; strain 
after standing an hour, and freeze. 
Beat up with a little sugar the whites 
of two or three eggs, and as the ice is 
beginning to set, work this in with the 
spatula, which will much improve the 
consistency and taste. 

Orange-Water Ice in the same 
way. 

Any kind of water ices may be made 
of the juice of the fruit (such as cur- 
rants, raspberry, strawberry, plum, 
damson, gooseberry, etc.,) mixed raw 
with fine sugar. 

Wine-Making. — The whole art of 
wine-making consists in the proper 
management of the fermenting process ; 
the same quantity of fruit, whether it 
be rhubarb, currants, gooseberries, 
grapes (unripe), leaves, tops and ten- 
drils, water, and sugar, will produce 
two different kinds of wine, by varying 
the process of fermentation only — 
that is, a dry wine like sherry, or a 
brisk beverage like champagne; but 



neither rhubarb, currants, nor goose- 
berries will produce a wine with the 
true champagne flavor ; it is to be ob- 
tained only from the fruit of the grape, 
ripe or unripe, its leaves, tops, and 
tendrils. The recipe here given will 
do for rhubarb, or any of the above- 
mentioned fruits. 

To Make Ten Gallons of Eng- 
lish Champagne, Imperial Meas- 
ure. — Take fifty pounds of rhubarb 
and thirty-seven pounds of fine moist 
sugar. Provide a tub that will hold 
from fifteen to twenty gallons, taking 
care that it has a hole for a tap near 
the bottom. In this tub bruise the 
rhubarb ; when done, add four gallons 
of water ; let the whole be well stirred 
together; cover the tub with a cloth 
or blanket, and let the materials stand 
for twenty-four hours ; then draw off" 
the liquor through the tap ; add one or 
two more gallons of water to the pulp, 
let it be well stirred, and then allowed 
to remain an hour or two to settle, 
then draw off; mix the two liquors to- 
gether, and in it dissolve the sugar. 
Let the tub be made clean, and return 
the liquor to it, cover it with a blanket, 
and place it in a room the temperature 
of which is not below 60° Fahr. ; here 
it is to remain for twenty-four, forty- 
eight, or more hours, until there is an 
appearance of fermentation having be- 
gun, when it should be drawn off" into 
a ten-gallon cask, as fine as possible, 
which cask must be filled up to the 
bung-hole with water, if there is not 
liquor enough ; let it lean to one side a 
little, that it may discharge itself; if 
there is any liquor left in the tub not 
quite fine, pass it through flannel, and 
fill up with that instead of water. As 
the fermentation proceeds and the 
liquor diminishes, it must be filled up 
daily, to encourage the fermentation, 
for ten or twelve days ; it then becomes 
more moderate, when the bung should 
be put in, and a gimlet hole made at 
the side of it, fitted with a spile ; this 
spile should be taken out every two or 
three days, according to the state of 
the fermentation, for eight or ten days, 
to allow some of the carbonic acid ga* 



264 



YOU ask! — i^LL tell! 



to escape. When this state is passed, 
the cask may be kept full by pouring a 
little liquor in at the vent-hole once a 
week or ten days, for three or four 
weeks. This oj)eration is performed at 
long intervals, of a month or more, till 
the end of December, when on a fine 
frosty day it should be drawn off from 
the lees as fine as possible ; the turbid 
part passed througli flannel. Make the 
cask clean, return the liquor to it, with 
one dram of isinglass (pure) dissolved 
in a little water; stir the whole to- 
gether, and put the bung in firmly. 
Choose a clear dry day in March for 
bottling. They should be champagne 
bottles — common wine bottles are not 
strong enough ; secure the corks in a 

{)roper manner with wire, etc. The 
iquor is generally made up to two or 
three pints over the ten gallons, which 
is bottled for the purpose of filling the 
cask as it is wanted. For several 
years past wine has been made with 
ripe and unripe grapes, according to 
the season, equally as good as any 
foreign produce. It has always spirit 
enough without the addition of brandy, 
which Dr. Maculloch says, in his 
treatise on wines, spoils all wines ; a 
proper fermentation produces spirit 
enough. The way to obtain a dry 
wine from these materials is to keep 
the cask constantly filled up to the 
bung-hole, daily or every other day, 
as long as any fermentation is percep- 
tible by applying the ear near to the 
hole ; the bung may then be put in 
lightly for a time, before finally fixing 
it ; it may be racked off on a fine day 
in December, and fined with isinglass 
as above directed, and bottled in 
March. 

Parsnip Wine. — Take fifteen 
pounds of sliced parsnips, and boil 
until quite soft in five gallons of 
water ; squeeze the liquor well out of 
them, run it through a sieve, and add 
three pounds of coarse lump sugar to 
every gallon of liquor. Boil the whole 
for three-quarters of an hour. When 
it i» nearly cold, add a little yeast on 
toast. Let it reinain in a tub for ten 
days, stirring it from the bottom every 



day; then put it into a cask for a 
year. As it works over, fill it up every 
day. 

Turnip Wine. — Take a large num- 
ber of turnips, pare and slice them ; 
then place in a cider-press, and obtain 
all the juice you can. To every gal- 
lon of juice add three pounds of lump 
sugar and half a pint of brandy. Poui 
into a cask, but do not bung until it 
has done working ; then bung it close 
for three months, and draw off into 
another cask ; when it is fine, bottle, 
and cork well. 

Blackberry Wine. — Gather the 
fruit when ripe, on a dry day. Put 
into a vessel, with the head out, and a 
tap fitted near the bottom ; pour on 
boiling water to cover it. Mash the 
berries with your hands, and let them 
stand covered till the pulp rises to the 
top and forms a crust, in three or four 
days. Then draw ofi" the fluid into 
another vessel, and to every gallon add 
one pound of sugar; mix well, and 
put it into a cask, to work for a week 
or ten days, and throw off any remain- 
ing lees, keeping the cask well filled, 
particularly at the commencement. 
When the working has ceased, bung it 
down ; after six to twelve months it 
may be bottled. 

Another very excellent method, and 
which will produce a wine equal in 
value to Port : Take ripe blackberries 
or dewberries, press the juice from 
them ; let it stand thirty-six hours to 
ferment, lightly covered ; skim ofl' 
whatever rises to the top; then to 
every gallon of the juice add one quart 
of water and three pounds of sugar 
(brown will do), let it stand in an open 
vessel for twenty-four hours ; skim 
and strain it, then barrel it ; let it 
stand eight or nine months, when it 
should be racked off" and bottled and 
corked close — age improves it. 

Blackberry Cordial. — To three 
pounds of ripe blackberries add one 
pound of white sugar ; let them stand 
twelve hours, then press out the juice 
and strain it ; add one-third of good 
spirits ; to every quart add one tea- 
spoonful of finely-powdered allspice. 



WINE-MAKING. 



265 



It is at once fit for use. Our native 
grapes produce the best of wine, which, 
is easily made. 

Common Grape Wine. — Take any 
quantity of sound, ripe grapes ; with a 
common cider-press press out the juice, 
put it into barrels, cover the bung 
lightly ; after fermentation has ceased 
cork it ; place it in a cellar or house. 
In twelve months you will have good 
wine, which improves by age; let it 
stand on its lees. 

Elderberry Wine. — Gather the 
berries ripe and dry, pick them, bruise 
them with your hands, and strain 
them. Set the liquor by in glazed 
earthen vessels for twelve hours, to 
settle; put to every pint of juice a 
pint and a half of water, and to every 
gallon of this liquor three pounds of 
good moist sugar ; set in a kettle over 
the fire, and when it is ready to boil, 
clariiy it with the whites of four or five 
eggs ; let it boil one hour, and when 
it is almost cold, work it with strong 
ale yeast, and tun it, filling up the 
vessel from time to time with the same 
liquor, saved on purpose, as it sinks 
by working. In a month's time, if 
the vessel holds about eight gallons, it 
will be fine and fit to bottle, and after 
bottling, will be fit to drink in twelve 
months 

Raspberry Wine. — Bruise the 
finest ripe raspberries with the back 
of a spoon ; strain them through a 
flannel bag into a stone jar ; allow one 
pound of fine powdered loaf-sugar to 
one quart of juice; stir these well 
together, and cover the jar closely ; let 
it stand three days, stirring the mix- 
ture up every day ; then pour off the 
clear liquid, and put two quarts of 
sherry to each quart of juice, or liquid. 
Bottle it off, and it will be fit for use 
in a fortnight. By adding Cognac 
brandy instead of sherry, the mixture 
will be raspberry brandy. 

Bed Currant Wine. — To eight 
quarts of currants put one quart of 
water, press and strain, and put three 
pounds and three-quarters of sugar to 
one gallon of juice. Let it set twenty- 
four hours. Skim and fill the demi • 



Johns. Do not boil it at all. It can be 
used in a month. Wine made from 
this recipe took the premium at 
Lynchburg Fair. 

Currant Wine. — Dissolve eight 
pounds of honey in fifteen gallons of 
boiling water, to which, when clarified, 
add the juice of eight pounds of red 
or white currants ; then ferment for 
twenty-four hours ; to every two gal- 
lons add two pounds of sugar, and 
clarify with whites of eggs. 

Ginger Wine. — Put three pounds 
of sugar and the shell and white of 
one egg into one gallon of spring 
water, boil it one hour, removing the 
scum that rises ; when the liquor is 
cold, squeeze in the juice of one lemon 
and one orange, then boil the peels of 
one lemon and one orange, ifith two 
ounces of ginger, in two pints of water, 
for an hour ; when cold, put it al- 
together in a barrel, leaving Jie bung 
out, with a teaspoonful of yeast, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of isinglass, and half 
pound of raisins, (if required to fill 
an eight-gallon barrel, use eight times 
the amount of each ingredient,) stir it 
well once a day, at the same time fill 
up the barrel with some of the surplus ; 
after nine days put the bung in th« 
barrel ; in two months it will be ready 
for use. 

Madeira Wine. — Boil three quarts 
of water, the rind of one lemon and 
three oranges, and three pounds of 
sugar, with the white and shell of one 
egg, for one hour ; remove the scum 
that rises on top ; when cold, add one 
quart of new ale (from the brewery) 
that has not done working, and the 
juices of one lemon and one sweet and 
two Seville oranges, one pound of 
raisins cut in half, color with a little 
burnt sugar. (The above is for one 
gallon of wine; if eight gallons are re- 
quired, take eight times the quantity 
of each ingredient.) Put it into a 
barrel and stir once a day, keeping it 
full at the bung ; after nine days, add 
a little brandy and a little isinglass 
put the bung in the barrel, and at the 
end of three months bottle it ; if kept 
a year it will be excellent. 



2GG 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Family Wine. — The following re- 
cipe is given by Dr. Ure (no mean 
authority). Take black, red, and 
white currants, ripe cherries (black 
hearts are the best), and raspberries, 
of each an equal quantity. To four 
pounds of the mixed fruit, well 
bruised, put one gallon of clear soft 
water, steep three days and nights, in 
open vessels, frequently stirring it up, 
then strain through a hair sieve ; press 
the residuary pulp to dryness, and add 
its juice to the former. In each gal- 
lon of the mixed liquors, dissolve three 
))Ounds of good yellow muscovado 
sugar ; let the solution stand other 
three days and nights, frequently 
skimming and stirring it up ; then 
turn it into casks, which should re- 
main full, and purging at the bung- 
liole about two weelcs. Lastly, to 
every nine gallons put one quart of 
good Cognac brandy (but not the 
drugged imitations made with grain 
whiskey), and bung down. If it does 
not soon become fine, a steeping of 
isinglass may be stirred into the 
liquid, in the proportion of half an 
ounce to nine gallons. I have found the 
addition of one ounce of cream of tar- 
tar to each gallon of the fermentable 
liquor im} roves the quality of the 
nine, and make*' i resemble more 
nearly the product of the grape. 

Mock Champagne. — Time, to 
work, three weeks ; to stand, six 
months. 

To every quart of grapes, 1 quart 
of water ; to every gallon of juice, allow 
8 pounds of loaf sugar, h an ounce 
of isinglass to every 10 gallons of wine, 
and a quart of brandy to every 5 gal- 
!om. 

Pick the grapes when full-grown 
and just beginning to change color, 
bruise them in a tub, pour in the 
water, and let them stand for three 
days, stirring once each day ; then 
press the fruit through a cloth, let the 
juice stand for three or four hours, 
pour it carefully from any sediment, 
and add to it the sugar. Barrel it, 
and put the bung slightly in. At the 
♦»nd of three weeks, or when it has 



done working, put in the isinglass, 
previously dissolved in some of the 
liquor. Stir it once a day for three 
days, and at the last stirring add the 
brandy. In three or four days, bung 
it down close, and in six months it 
should be bottled, and the corks tied 
down, or wired. 

Rhine Wine. — Take one gallon of 
Delaware grapes, crush them, and add 
one gallon of water. Let it stand 
eight days, then draw it oli", and add 
three pounds of sugar to each gallon 
of wine, well stirring it in. Let it 
stand twelve hours, then it may be 
put in barrels or bottles. The longer 
it is kept, the better it is, and soon 
becomes equal to the imported wine. 

Ginger Beer for Immediate Use. 

— The following is a very good way to 
make it: Take of ginger, bruised or 
sliced, one and a half ounces ; cream 
of tartar, one ounce ; loaf sugar, one 
pound ; one lemon sliced ; put them 
into a pan, and pour six quarts of boil- 
ing water upon them. When nearly 
cold, put in a little yeast, and stir it 
for about a minute. Let it stand till 
next day, then strain and bottle it. It 
is fit to drink in three days, but will 
not keep good longer than a fortnight. 
The corks should be tied down, and 
the bottles placed upright in a cool 
place. 

Ginger Beer. — White sugar, twenty 
pounds ; lemon or lime-juice, eighteen 
(fluid) ounces ; honey, one pound ; 
bruised ginger, twenty -two ounces; 
water, eighteen gallons. Boil the 
ginger in three gallons of water for 
half an hour, then add the sugar, the 
juice, and the honey, with the remain- 
der of the water, and strain through a 
cloth. When cold, add the white of one 
egg, and half an ounce (fluid) of es- 
sence of lemon. After standing four 
days, bottle. This yields a very supe- 
rior beverage, and one which will keep 
for many months. 

Ginger Beer Powders. — Blue paper. 

— Carbonate of soda, thirty grains; 
powdered ginger, five grains ; ground 
white sugar, one dram to one dram 
and a half; essence of lemon, one 



WINE-MAKING. 



267 



drop. Add the essence to the sugar, 
then the other ingredients. A quan- 
tity should be mixed and divided, as 
recommended for Seidlitz powders. 
White paper. — Tartaric acid, thirty 
grains. Directions. — Dissolve the con- 
tents of the blue paper in water ; stir 
in the contents of the white paper, 
and drink during effervescence. Ginger- 
beer powders do not meet with such 
general acceptation as lemon and kali, 
the powdered ginger rendering the 
liquid slightly turbid. 

LEMONADE. — Powdered sugar, 
four pounds ; citric or tartaric acid, 
one ounce ; essence of lemon, two 
drams. Mix well. Two or three 
teaspoonfuls make a very sweet and 
agreeable glass of extemporaneous 
lemonade. 

Milk Lemonade. — Dissolve three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar in 
one pint of boiling water, and mix 
with them one gill of lemon-juice, and 
one gill of sherry ; then add three gills 
of cold milk. Stir the whole well to- 
gether, and strain it. 

Summer Champagne. — To four 
parts of seltzer water add one of Mo- 
selle wine (or hock), and put a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar into a 
wineglassful of this mixture. An 
ebullition takes place, and you have 
a sort of champagne which is more 
wholesome in hot weather than the 
genuine wine known by that name. 

Lemon and Kali, or Sherbet.— 
Large quantities of this wholesome and 
refreshing preparation are manufac- 
tured and consumed every summer. It 
is sold in bottles, and also as a bever- 
age, made by dissolving a large tea- 
spoonful in a tumbler two-thirds filled 
with water. Ground white sugar, half 
a pound ; tartaric acid, carbonate of 
soda, of each a quarter of a pound ; 
_ essence of lemon, forty drops. All the 
powders should be well dried. Add 
the essence to the sugar, then the other 
powders ; stir all together, and mix by 
passing twice through a hair sieve. 
Must be kept in tightly-corked bottles, 
into which a damp spoon must not 
be inserted. All the materials may be 



obtained at a wholesale druggist's. The 
sugar must be ground, as, if merely 
powdered, the coarser parts remain un- 
dissolved. 

Soda Water Powders. — Cue pound 
of carbonate of soda, and thirteen and a 
half ounces of tartaric acid, supply the 
materials for two hundred and fifty-six 
powders of each sort. Put into blue pa- 
pers thirty grains of carbonate of soda, 
and into white papers twenty-five grains 
of tartaric acid. Directions. — Dissolve 
the contents of tlie blue paper in half 
a tumbler of water, stir in the other 
powder, and drink during eflferves- 
cence. Soda powders furnish a saline 
beverage which is very slightly laxa- 
tive, and well calculated to allay the 
thirst in hot weather. 

Seidlitz Powders. — Seidlitz pow- 
ders are usually put up in two papers. 
The larger blue paper contains tartar- 
ized soda (also called Rochelle salt) 
two drams, and carbonate of soda two 
scruples. In practice it will be found 
more convenient to mix the two mate- 
rials in larger quantity by passing 
them twice through a sieve, and then 
divide the mixture either by weight 
or measure, than to make each powder 
separately. One pound of tartarized 
soda, and five ounces and a half of 
carbonate of soda, will make sixty 
powders. The smaller powder, usu- 
ally put up in white paper, consists of 
tartaric acid, half a dram. — Directions 
for Use. — Dissolve the contents of 
blue paper in half a tumbler of cold 
water, stir in the other powder, and 
drink during effervescence. 

Wine Whey. — Time, five minutes. 

J pint of milk, sugar to taste, 1 wine 
glass of white wine. 

Put half a pint of milk over the fire, 
sweeten it to taste, and when boiling, 
throw in a wineglass of sherry. As 
soon as the curd forms, strain the 
whey through muslin into a tumbler. 

Egg Flip. — 3 eggs, a quarter of a 
pound of good moist sugar, a pint and 
a half of beer. 

Beat three whole eggs with a quar- 
ter of a pound of good moist sugar ; 
make a pint and a half of beer very 



268 



YOU ask! — i'll tell! 



hot, but do not let it boil ; then mix it 
graduivlly with the beaten eggs and 
sugar, toss it to and fro from the 
saucepan into a jug two or three 
times, grate a little nutmeg on the top 
and serve. A wineglassful of spirits 
may be added if liked. 

To Keep Cider Sweet. — In thirty 
gallons of cider, put two quarts of 
malt, or, instead of malt, put in two 
pounds of raisins, and quarter of a 
pound of mustard seeds. Instead of 
driving the bung in, paste a piece of 
brown paper over the hole. 

Cider Wine. — To ten gallons of 
good new cider, put twenty pounds of 
sugar, two pounds of raisins, cut in half, 
and five ounces of isinglass. Put it into 
a ten-gallon cask, let it stand, filling 
it up at the bung daily. After nine 
days, put the bung in the barrel ; in 
four months bottle it for use. It will 
be so good, you will wish you had made 
more of it. 

Raspberry Vinegar.— Put a pound 
of very fine ripe raspberries in a bowl, 
bruise them well, and pour upon them a 
quart of the best white wine vinegar ; 
next day strain the liquor on a pound 
of fresh ripe raspberries ; bruise them 
also, and the following day do the 
same, but do not squeeze the fruit, or it 
will make it ferment; only drain the 
liquor as dry as you can from it. 
Finally, pass it through a canvas bag, 
previously wet with the vinegar, to 
prevent waste. Put the juice into a 
Btone jar, with a pound of sugar, broken 
into lumps, to every pint of juice ; stir, 
and when melted, put the jar into a 
pan of water ; let it simmer, and skim 
It ; let it cool, then bottle it ; when 
cold it will be fine and thick, like 
strained honey, newly prepared. 

Scotch Punch, or Whiskey Toddy 
— [Tlie Duke of Athol's Recipe). — 
Pour about a wineglassful of boiling 
water into a half-pint tumbler, and 
sweeten according to taste. Stir well 
up, then put in a wineglassful of 
whiskey, and add a wineglassful and a 
half more boiling water. Be sure the 
ivater is boiling. Never put lemon 
into toddy. The two in combination, 



in almost every instance, produce 
acidity in the stomach. If possible, 
store your whiskey in the wood, not in 
bottles, as keeping it in the cask mel- 
lows it, and dissipates the coarser par- 
ticles. 

Mulled Wine. — Ingredients. — 
J pint of wine, J pint of water, 1 egg, 
sugar, nutmeg. 

Mix the wine and water together, 
and let it boil ; beat the eggs in a pan, 
pour them into the wine, then quickly 
pour the whole from one vessel into 
another five or six times ; add sugar 
and nutmeg to taste. 

Mulled Cider. — Ingredients. — 
1 pint of cider, 2 eggs, sugar and nutmeg. 

Boil the cider, have the eggs well 
beaten, pour them into the cider, then 
quickly pour the whole from one ves- 
sel to another five or six times ; add 
sugar and nutmeg to taste. 

Economy of Tea. — A given quan- 
tity of tea is similar to malt — only 
imparting strength to a given quantity 
of water, therefore any additional 
quantity is waste. Two small tea- 
spoonfuls of good black tea, and one 
three parts full of green, is sufiicient to 
make three teacupfuls agreeable, the 
water being put in, in a boiling state, 
at once ; a second addition of water 
gives a vapid flavor to tea. 

In Preparing Tea a good economist 
will be careful to have the best water, 
that is, the softest and least impreg- 
nated with foreign mixture ; for if tea be 
infused in hard and in soft water, the 
latter will always yield the greatest 
quantity of the tannin matter, and will 
strike the deepest black with sulphate 
of iron in solution. 

Tea-Making. — Dr. Kitchiner re- 
commends that all the water necessary 
should be poured in at once, as the 
second drawing is bad. When much 
tea is wanted, it is better to have two 
teapots instead of two drawings. 

Another Method. — The water 
should be fresh boiled (not exhausted 
by long boiling). Scald the teapot and 
empty it ; then put in as much water 
as necessary for the first cups ; put the 
tea on it as in brewing, and close the 



TEA AND COFFEE. 



26d 



lid as quickly as possible. Let it stand 
three minutes and a half, or, if the 
quantity be large, four minutes, then 
fill the cups. This is greatly superior 
to the ordinary method, the aroma 
being preserved instead of escaping 
with the steam, as it does when the 
water is poured on the tea. 

Substitute for Cream in Tea or 
Coffee. — Beat the white of an egg to 
a froth, put to it a very small lump of 
butter, and mix well. Then stir it in 
gradually, so that it may not curdle. 
If perfectly mixed, it will be an excel- 
lent substitute for cream. 

A. French chemist asserts that if tea 
be ground like coffee before hot water 
is poured upon it, it will yield nearly 
double the amount of its exhilarating 
qualitJfes. 

Another writer says : " If you put a 
piece of lump sugar the size of a wal- 
nut into a teapot, you will make the 
tea infuse in half the time." Persons 
who have tried this last experiment 
say that the result is satistkctory. 

In Making Coffee, observe that the 
broader the bottom and the smaller 
the top of the vessel, the better the 
coffee will be. 

Turkish Mode of Making Coffee. 
— The Turkish way of making coffee 
produces a very different result from 
that to which we are accustomed. A 
small conical saucepan, with a long 
handle, and calculated to hold about 
two tablespoonfuls of water, is the ves- 
sel used. The fresh roasted berry is 
pounded, not ground, and about a 
dessertspoonful is put into the minute 
boiler ; it is then nearly filled with 
water, and thrust among the embers. 
A few seconds sufiice to make it boil, 
and the decoction, grounds and all, is 
poured out into a small cup, which fits 
into a brass socket, much like the cup 
of an acorn, and holding the china cup 
as that does the acorn itself. The 
Turks seem to drink this decoction 
boiling, and swallow the grounds with 
the liquid. We allow it to remain a 
minute, in order to leave the sediment 
at the bottom. It is always taken 
plain ; sugar or cream would be thought 



to spoil it; and Europeans, after a 
little practice (longer, however, than 
we had), are said to prefer it to the 
clear infusion drunk in France. In 
every hut these coffee boilers may be 
seen suspended, and the means for 
pounding the roasted berry are always 
ready at hand. 

For a long time we used the coffee 
ground as coarsely as it is usually sold 
in the stores. Although procuring the 
best berries possible, we did not uni- 
formly succeed in obtaining at the 
breakfast table a first rate beverage. 
We consulted many wiseacres, some 
of whom said that the water used 
should be hotter, others that the coffee 
should be first soaked in cold water, 
etc., etc. By accident, one day we 
happened to have the coffee reground 
to the fineness of snuff. Herein lay 
the mystery. We have never since 
failed to obtain a strong full-flavored 
beverage, and that too without using 
so large a quantity of coffee. If not 
convenient to grind it so fine, use it a» 
sold at the stores, but let the quantity 
required for breakfast be put in cold 
water overnight, in the morning just 
boil a minute, and you will have a 
much better cup of coffee than usual. 
(Try this once.) 

In Sweden, they make excellent 
coffee. On inquiring at the little hotel 
how they made it, the following method 
was given : Take any kind of coffee- 
pot or urn, and suspend a bag of felt or 
very heavy flannel, so long that it 
reaches the bottom, bound on a wire 
just fitting the top; put in the fresh, 
ground pure coffee, and pour on freshly- 
boiled water. The fluid filters through 
the bag and may be used at once; 
needs no settling and retains all the 
aroma. The advantage of this ovei 
the ordinary filter is its economy, as 
the coffee stands and soaks out the 
strength, instead of merely letting the 
water pass through it. 

Beet-Root Coffee. — A very good 
coffee can be made of beet-root in the 
following manner : Cut dry beet-root 
into very small pieces, then gradually 
heat it in a close pan over the fire foi 



ro 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



about fifteen minutes. Now introduce 
a little sweet fresh butter, and bring it 
up to the roasting heat. The butter 
prevents the evaporation of the sweet- 
ness and aroma of the beet-root, and 
when fully roasted it is taken out, 
ground, and used like coffee. A bev- 
erage nuide of it is cheap, and as good 
for the human system as coffee or 
chicory. 

Chicory. — This is the dried and 
roasted root of a plant allied to the 
dandelion, and it is found by almost 
unanimous testimony to be an agree- 
able flavorer of coffee. It is " diuretic 
and aperient" — qualities in its favor, 
for it is the prevailing defect of our 
food that it is too astringent and heat- 
ing, and the fact that chicory finds 
such general approbation we believe 
rests in these qualities. We know a 
respectable grocer who, from conscien- 
tious motives, ceased to mix chicory 
with coffee; the immediate effect was 
the falling off of his coffee trade, his 
customers declaring that his coffee was 
not so good as previously ; and he was 
compelled again to mix chicory with 
it, to meet their taste. Chicory is found 
to be " adulterated " with carrots, 
parsnips, and mangold-wurzel. But 
as these roots are all of them highly 
uutritious and agreeable, instead of 
detracting from the claims of chicory, 
the facts stated rather elevate " chi- 
cory" in our estimation, and point to 
the probability that the roots mentioned 
possess qualities hitherto imperfectly as- 
certained, and worthy of further exami- 
nation and development. Our remarks 
are not merely of conjecture, they 
are founded upon observation and 
analysis. 

To Clear Coffee. — When the coffee 
has boiled sulHciently remove it from 
the fire, and immediately dash in hplf 
a teacupful of quite cold water; lei it 
stand a minute, then pour out, and 
you will have clear coffee. This plan 
may be too simple for some, and they 
may prefer to throw an egg-shell in 
the coffee to settle it. (We propose to 
remove the mystery from this.) It is 
not the shell of the egg that clears the 



liquid, but the albumen in the shap« 
of the white of the egg adhering to 
the shell, so that a little of the white 
of an egg poured into the coffee will 
clear it just as well as the egg-shells. 

When eggs are scarce, it is extrava- 
gant to use a whole one for clearing 
coffee at one time. Take an egg, make 
a hole in the end, and let a teaspoon- 
ful run out, then put a bit of paper 
over the hole in the egg and it will 
not dry up, but will clear coffee a 
number of times, and a little is just as 
good as a whole one. 

CHOCOLATE. — Boil one table- 
spoonful of scraped chocolate in one 
quart of water for twenty minutes, 
then add a pint of new milk, and 
sugar to taste; boil it up for a minute, 
remove it from the fire, and let it set- 
tle, and it is ready for use. 

COCOA may be made the same as 
chocolate. 

Coffee Milk. — (For the Sick- 
room.) — Boil a dessertspoonful cf 
ground coffee, in nearly a pint of milk, 
a quarter of an hour, then put into it 
a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear 
it ; let it boil a few minutes, and set it 
by the side of the fire to clarify. This 
is a very fine breakfast ; but it should 
be sweetened with sugar of a good 
quality. 

Iceland Moss Chocolate. — (For 
THE Sick-room.) — Iceland moss has 
been in the highest repute on the Con- 
tinent as a most efiicacious remedy in 
incipient pulmonary complaints : com- 
bined with chocolate, it will be found 
a nutritious article of diet, and may 
be taken as a morning and evening 
beverage. Directions. — Mix a tea- 
spoonful of the chocolate with a tea- 
spoonful of boiling water or milk, 
stirring it constantly until it is com- 
pletely dissolved. 

Alum Whey. — A pint of cow's 
milk boiled with two drams of alum, 
until a curd is formed. Then strain 
off the liquor, and add spirit of nut- 
meg, two ounces, syrup of cloves, an 
ounce. It is used in diabetes, and in 
uterine fluxes, etc. 

Barley Water. — Pearl barley, two 



BREAD-MAKING. 



271 



f>unces; wash till freed from dust in 
cold water. Boil in a quart of water 
a few minutes, strain off the liquor, 
and throw it away. Then boil the 
barley in four pints and a half of wa- 
ter, until it is reduced one half 

Agfreeable Effervescent Drink for 
Heart-Burn, etc. — Orange-juice (of 
one orange), water, and lump sugar to 
flavor, and in proportion to acidity of 
orange, bicarbonate of soda, about half 
a teaspoon ful. Mix orange-juice, wa- 
ter, and sugar together in a tumbler, 
then put in the soda, stir, and the 
effervescence ensues. 

Apple Water. — A tart apple well 
baked and mashed ; on which pour a 
pint of boiling water. Beat up, cool, 
and strain. Add sugar, if desired. 
Cooling drink for sick persons. 

Tincture of Lemon-Peel . — A very 
easy and economical way of obtaining 
and preserving the flavor of lemon- 
peel, is to fill a wide-mouthed pint 
bottle half full of brandy, or proof- 
spirit ; and when you use a lemon, 
pare the riud off very thin, and put it 
into the brandy, etc. ; in a fortnight it 
will impregnate the spirit with the 
flavor very strongly. 

Camomile Tea. — One ounce of the 
flowers to a quart of water boiling. 
Simmer for fifteen minutes and strain. 
Emetic when taken warm ; tonic when 
cold. Dose, from a wineglassful to a 
breakfast-cup. 

Yeast. — Bcil, say on Monday morn- 
ing, two ounces of the best hops in 
four quarts of water for half an hour ; 
strain it, and let the liquor cool to new- 
milk warmth ; then put iu a small hand- 
ful of salt and half a pound of sugar ; 
beat up one pound of the best flour 
with some of the liquor, and then mix 
well all together. On Wednesday add 
three pounds of potatoes, boiled, and 
then mashed, to stand till Thursday; 
then strain it and put it into bottles, 
and it is ready for use. It must be 
ttirred frequently tvhile it is making, and 
kept near the fire. Before using, shake 
the bottle up well. It will keep in a 
cool place for two months, and is best 
at the latter part of the time. The 



beauty of this yeast is that it ferments 
spontaneously, not requiring the aid of 
other yeast; and if care be taken to 
let it ferment well in the earthen bowl 
in which it is made, you may cork it 
up tight when bottled. The quantity 
above given will fill four seltzer-water 
bottles. 

Domestic Yeast. — Ladies who are 
in the habit (and a most laudable and 
comfortable habit it is) of making 
domestic bread cake, etc., are informed 
that they can easily manufacture their 
own yeast by attending to the follow- 
ing directions : — Boil one pound of 
good flour, a quarter of a pound of 
brown sugar, and a little salt, in two 
gallons of water, for one hour. When 
milk- warm, bottle it, and cork it 
close. It will be fit for use in twenty- 
four hours. One pint of this yeast 
will make eighteen pounds of bread. 

Potato Yeast, that will Keep in 
the Hottest Weather. — Grate seven 
medium-size potatoes into ;i ^eacup- 
ful of brown sugar, then boil a liand- 
ful of hops, and two large tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, in two quarts of water. 
Strain out the hops, and pour the 
liquor over the potatoes and sugar, 
then put all back into the pot, and 
boil for fifteen minutes. 

What is Saleratus ? — Wood is 
burnt to ashes, these are lixivated, and 
lye is the result. Lye is evaporated 
by boiling, black salt is the residuum. 
The salt undergoes purification by fire, 
and the potash of commerce is obtained. 
By another process we change potash 
into pearlash. Now put these in 
sacks and place them over a distillery 
mash - tub, where the fermentation 
evolves carbonic acid gas, and the 
pearlash absorbs it and is rendered 
solid ; the product being heavier, 
whiter, and drier than the pearlash. 
It is now saleratus. How much such 
salts of lye and carbonic acid gas one 
cau' bear and remain healthy, is a 
question for a saleratus eater. 

Hot Biscuit. — There are some 
families that must, and will, have warm 
biscuit every morning and evening ; 
all that is necessary is to keep a jar of 



272 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



" bread sponge,'" made as thick as 
stifl' batter ; a quart of" this and one tea- 
spooni'ulof baking soda stirred stiff with 
flour so as to be moulded, makes excel- 
lent biscuit for breakfast or tea. To re- 
new the sponge every day, take one 
cupful of nop water or hop tea, three 
cupfuls of flour, three cuptuls of boil- 
ing water, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoon fuls of sugar, and three tea- 
spoonfuls of butter or lard, and after 
stirring all together pour into the jar 
to replenish it. The jar should hold 
at least twice or three times the quan- 
tity that is daily used out of it. 

Home-made Bread. — To seven 
pounds of flour, add two dessertspoon- 
fuls of salt, and mix them well ; mix 
four tablespoonfuls of good fresh yeast 
with one pint of warm, but not hot 
water; make a hole with your hand 
in the middle of the flour, but not 
quite touching the bottom of the pan ; 
pour the water and yeast into this 
hole, and stir it with a spoon tiU you 
have made a thin batter ; sprinkle this 
over with flour, cover the pan over 
with a dry cloth, and let it stand in a 
warm room for an hour ; not near the 
lire, except in cold weather, and then 
not too close ; then add a pint of 
water a little warm, and knead the 
whole well together, till the dough 
comes clean through the hand (some 
flour will require a little more water ; 
but in this, experience must be your 
guide), let it stand again for about a 
quarter of an hour, and then bake at 
pleasure. 

Indian Corn Flour and "Wheaten 
Bread. — The peculiarity of this bread 
consists in its being composed in part 
of Indian corn flour, which is richer 
in gluten and fatty matter than the 
flour of wheat, to which circumstance 
it owes its highly nutritive char- 
acter: 

Take seven pounds of Indian corn 
flour, pour upon it four quarts of boil- 
ing water, stirring it all the time ; let 
it stand till about new - milk warm, 
then mix it with fourteen pounds of 
fine wheaten flour, to which a quarter 
of a pound of salt has been previously 



added. Make a depression on the 
surface of this mixture, and pour into 
it two quarts of yeast, which should be 
thickened to the consistence of cream 
with some of the flour ; let it stand all 
night. On the following morning the 
whole should be well kneaded, and 
allowed to stand for three hours ; then 
divide it into loaves, which are better 
baked in tins, in which they should 
stand for half an hour, then bake. 
Thirty-two pounds of wholesome, nu- 
tritive, and very agreeable bread will 
be the result. It is of importance that 
the flour of Indian corn should be 
procured, as Indian corn meal is that 
which is commonly met with at the 
shops, and the coarseness of the husk 
in the meal might to some persons be 
prejudicial, 

Unfermented Bread. — Three 
pounds wheat meal, half an ounce, 
avoirdupois, muriatic acid, half an 
ounce, avoirdupois, carbonate soda, 
water enough to make it of a proper 
consistence. For white flour, four 
pounds of flour, half an ounce, avoir- 
dupois, muriatic acid, half an ounce, 
avoirdupois, carbonate soda, water, 
about a quart. The way of making is 
as follows : — First mix the soda and 
flour well together by rubbing in a 
pan ; then pour the acid into the water, 
and mix well by stirring. Mix all to- 
gether to the required consistence, and 
bake in a hot oven immediately. The 
gain from this method of baking is 
as follows: — Four pounds of wheat 
meal made seven pounds nine ounces 
of excellent light bread ; and four 
pounds of seconds flour made six 
pounds of excellent light bread. It 
keeps moist longer than bread made 
with yeast, and is far more sweet and 
digestible. This is especially recom- 
mended to persons who suffer from 
indigestion, who will find the brown 
bread invaluable, 

A great increase on Home-made 
Bread, even equal to one-fifth, may be 
produced by using bran water for 
kneading the dough. The proportion 
is three pounds of bran for every 
twenty-eight pounds of flour, to be 



BREAD-MAKINQ. 



273 



boiled for an hour, and then strained 
through a hair sieve. 

There are two advantages in making 
bread with bran water instead of plain 
water ; the one being that there is con- 
siderable nourishment ia bran, which 
is thus extracted and added to the 
bread; the other, that flour imbibes 
much more of bran water than it does 
of plain water ; so much more, as to 
give in the bread produced almost a 
Hfth in weight more than the quantity 
of flour made up with plain water 
would have done. These are impor- 
tant considerations to the poor. Fifty- 
six pounds of flour, made with plain 
water, would produce sixty-nine and a 
half pounds of bread ; made with bran 
water, it will produce eighty-three and 
a half pounds. 

Use of Lime - water in making 
Bread. — It has lately been found that 
water saturated with lime produces in 
bread the same whiteness, softness, 
and capacity of retaining moisture, as 
results from the use of alum ; while 
the former removes all acidity from 
the dough, and supplies an ingredient 
needed in the structure of the bones, but 
which is deficient in the cerealia. The 
best proportion to use is, five pounds 
of watei saturated with lime to every 
nineteer p)unds of flouz. No change 
is required in the process of baking. 
The lime most eflectually coagulates 
the gluten, and the bread weighs well ; 
bakers must therefore approve of its 
introduction, which is not injurious to 
the system, like alum, etc. A large 
quantity of this kind of bread is now 
made in Munich, and is highly 
esteemed. 

Tea Cakes or Loaves. — Time, half 
or three-quarters of an hour. 

1 egg, 2 ounces of butter, ^ a pound of 
flour, 2 or 3 knobs of sugar. 

Rub the butter into the flour, add 
the sugar pounded, and mix it with 
one beaten egg. 

It will make two small loaves for tea 
or breakfast. 

Breakfast or Tea Bolls. — Time, 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 

1 pound of flour, a ^ of a pound of 

18 



butter, 1 tablespoonful of good yeast, 1 
egg, a little warm milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour, then 
add the yeast, breaking in one egg, 
both yolk and white. Mix it with a 
little warm milk poured into the mid- 
dle of the flour ; stir all well together, 
and set it by the fire to rise, then make 
it into light dough, and again set it by 
the fire. Make up the rolls, lay them 
on a tin, and set them in front of the 
fire for ten minutes before you put 
them into the oven, brushing them 
over with egg. This paste may be 
used for fancy bread. 

Breakfast or Tea Cakes Hot. — 
Time, half an hour. 

6 handfuls of flour, J a pint of milk, a 
small piece of butter, 2 ounces of German 
yeast, 1 egg. 

Put the flour in a basin, with half a 
pint of milk, and a small piece of but- 
ter ; warm the milk — in the winter 
increase its temperature. Mix two 
ounces of German yeast in a little 
cold water; add it to the milk and 
butter. Make a hole in the flour, and 
pour the mixed milk and yeast into it, 
stirring it round until it is a thick 
batter ; add to it one beaten egg ; cover 
it over, and set it before the fire, 
keeping it warm. When it has risen 
a little, mix it into a dough, knead it 
well, put it again before the fire, and, 
when it has risen a great deal, form 
your rolls. They will take nearly half 
an hour to bake, or according to the size 
you make them. Rub them once 
while hot with a paste-brush dipped in 
milk. 

Graham, or Dyspepsia Bread. — 
Persons often fail to make this bread 
good because the so-called Graham, or 
unbolted flour, is made from inferior 
wheat. We avoid this by using the 
best flour, and mixing the bran with 
it ourselves ; that is, we buy our flour 
and our bran separately, and mix it 
ourselves. In this way we get our 
Graham bread good and cheap. Wet 
up the flour with lukewarm water, salt 
and yeast in the proportion as for 
wheat bread. Knead in suflicient flour 
to make it stiff": add a very little best 



274 



YOU ask! — I'l.L tell! 



molasses. Let it rise, then bake. It 
will take about two hours. 

French Bread and Rolls.— Take a 
pint and a half of milk; make it quite 
warm ; half a pint of small-beer yeast ; 
add sufficient flour to make it as thick 
as batter. Put it into a pan, cover it 
over, and keep it warm. When it has 
risen as high as it will, add a quarter 
of a pint of warm water, and half an 
ounce of salt. Mix them well together, 
rub into a little flour two ounces of 
butter ; then make your dough, not 
quite so stiff as for your bread. Let it 
stand for three-quarters of an hour, 
and it will be ready to make into rolls, 
etc. Let them stand till they have 
risen, and bake them in a quick oven. 

Wholesome Bread. — This bread 
contains no other ingredients than 
simple wheat meal and water, and is 
used as a standard article of diet at a 
number of the leading hygienic insti- 
tutions in this country, as well as in 
very many private families. 

It is made as follows : — Stir together 
wheat meal and cold water (nothing 
else, not even salt) to the consistency 



of a thick batter. Bake in small cir- 
cular pans, from three to three and 
a half inches in diameter (ordinary 
tin "patty pans" do very well), in a 
quick, hot oven. It is quite essential 
that it is baked in this sized cake, as it 
is upon this that the raising depends. 
A better pan for the purpose may be 
had at most any of the house-furnish- 
ing stores, being a number of circular 
iron pans, cast together in one large 
form. If this is used, it is best to 
heat it before filling with the batter. 

Rye Bread. — 1 quart rye flour, 1 
quart flour, 2 teaspoons salt, t of a cup 
molasses, 1 quart milk and water, half 
and half, 1 yeast cake in a cup of water, 

Boston Brown Bread. — J cup fiour, 
1 cup Indian meal, 2 cups rye, f cup 
molasses, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, I 
teaspoon soda ; mix soft with cold water 
or milk ; tablespoon of salt. 

Put in a deep tin, and bake slowly 
three or four hours ; or, what is better, 
put it in an earthen pan, and stand in 
a slow oven all night. 

Note. — Cooked in a steamer for three hours, it It 
4 good pudding. 



MAKING HOME COMFORTABLE. 



Selecting and Furnishing a House— Ways to Lessen the Perplexi- 
ties OF Every-day Domestic Life. 



Taking a House. — Before taking 
a house, be careful to calculate that 
the rent is not too high in proportion 
to your means ; for remember that the 
rent is a claim that must be paid with 
but little delay. 

Having determined the 
Amount of Rent which you can 
afford to pay, be careful to select the 
best house which can be obtained for 
that sum. And in making that selec- 
tion, let the following matters be care- 
fully considered : 

First — Carefully regarp the 
Healthfulness of the Situation. 
Avoid the neighborhood of grave- 
yards, and of factories giving forth 
unhealthy vapors. Avoid low and 
damp districts, the course of canals, 
and localities of reservoirs of water, 
gas-works, etc. Make inquiries as to 
the drainage of the neighborhood, and 
inspect the drainage and water sup- 
ply of the premises. A house stand- 
ing on an incline is likely to be better 
drained than one standing upon the 
summit of a hill, or on a level below a 
hill. Endeavor to obtain a position 
where the direct sunlight falls upon 
the house, for this is absolutely essen- 
tial to health ; and give preference to 
a house the opetiings of which are 
sheltered from the north and east winds. 

Second — Consider the Dis- 
tance OF the House from your 
place of occupation ; and also its rela- 
tion to provision markets, and shopw 
in the neighborhood. 

Having considered these Mate- 
rial AND Leading Features, ex- 
amine the house in detail, carefully 



looking into its state of repair ; notice 
the windows that are broken ; whe- 
ther the chimneys smoke; whether 
they have been recently swept; 
whether the paper on the walls is 
damaged, especially in the lower 
parts, and the corners, by the skirt- 
ings ; whether the locks, bolts, handles 
of doors, and window-fastenings are 
in proper condition ; make a list of 
the fixtures ; ascertain whether al/ 
rent and taxes have been paid by the 
previous tenant, and whether the per- 
son from whom you take the house is 
the original landlord, or his agent or 
tenant. And do not commit yourself 
by the signing of any agreement until 
you are satisfied upon all these points, 
and see that all has been done which the 
landlord had undertaken. 

If you are about to Furnish a 
House, do not spend all your money, 
be it much or little. Do not let the 
beauty of this thing, and the cheap- 
ness of that, tempt you to buy un- 
necessary articles. Dr. Franklin's 
laaxim was a wise one — " Nothing is 
cheap that we do not want." Buy 
merely enough to get along with at 
first. It is only by experience that 
you can tell what will be the wants of 
your family. If you spend all vour 
money, you will find you have "pur- 
chased many things you do not want, 
and have no means left to get many 
things which you do want. If you 
have enough, and more than enough, 
to get everything suitable to your sit- 
uation, do not think you must spend 
it all, merely because you happen to 
have it. Begin humbly. As riches 
275 



276 



YOU ask! — t'i.l tell! 



increase, it is easy and pleasant to 
increase in comforts ; but it is always 
painful and inconvenient to decrease. 
After all, tiiese things are viewed in 
their proper light by the truly judi- 
cious and respectable. Neatness, 
tastefulness, and good sense may be 
shown in the management of a small 
household, and the arrangement of a 
little furniture, as well as upon a 
larger scale; and these qualities are 
always praised, and always treated 
with respect and attention. The con- 
sideration which many purchase by 
living beyond their income, and, of 
course, living upon others, is not worth 
t!ie trouble it costs. The glare there 
is about this false and wicked parade 
is deceptive ; it does not, in fact, pro- 
cure a man valuable friends, or exten- 
sive influence. 

How to Beautify your Rooms. — 
The first condition of success in fur- 
nishing either a large or a small room 
is that there must be no overcrowd- 
ing. — This is absolute. When out- 
line is lost, beauty, as a matter of fact, 
is lost also. We must all know many 
drawing-rooms in which, perhaps, the 
worth and beauty of each individual 
thing is indisputable, on entering 
which the first thing that strikes one 
is a sense of incongruity. — What 
might have been an art collection is 
degraded to the level of an old curi- 
osity shop. Most women are born 
with a love of beauty. But generally, 
unless this love is cultivated and 
trained, it runs to waste, and fritters 
itself away upon small things. Wo- 
men go into a shop and hover a coun- 
ter for an hour, engrossed in the pur- 
chase of fifty minute things, each one 
of which is pretty enough in itself if 
taken up in the hand and inspected ; 
but not one of which can be clearly 
defined at a distance of two yards, and 
not one of which repays the trouble 
of the minute inspection. These are 
packed away in shiny cabinets that 
are blazing with ormolu scroll-work, 
on spindle-legged what-nots that seem 
to be designed for no other earthly 
purpose than to be knocked down at 



brief intervals, and on mantlepiecesf 
that confuse one's brain during the 
long periods when the need of being 
near the fire forces one to face them. 
It is a better and higher system of 
economy to buy two or three good 
bronzes or marbles, on which the eye 
can always rest with pleasure, than to 
spend ten times that sum on a hetero- 
geneous mass of the parti- colored rub- 
bish which may accumulate, " In or- 
der," they call it, " to take off the 
naked look of their room." Better the 
naked look ten thousand times than 
the false decorations. 

CARPETS. — In buying carpets, as 
in everything else, those of the best 
quality are cheapest in the end. As 
it is extremely desirable that they 
should look as clean as possible, avoid 
buying carpet that has any white in it. 
Even a very small portion of white ia 
t'irspersed through the pattern will in 
a short time give a dirty appearaaca 
to the whole ; and certainly no carpet 
can be worse for use than one with a 
white ground. 

A Carpet in which all the 
Colors are Light never has a clean, 
bright effect, from the want of dark 
tints to contrast and set off the light 
ones. 

For a Similar Reason, carpets 
whose colors are all of what artists 
call middle tint (neither dark nor 
■ight), cannot fail to look dull and 
dingy, even when quite new. 

The Caprices of Fashion at 
times bring these ill-colored carpets 
into vogue ; but, in apartments where 
elegance is desirable, they always have 
a bad effect. 

For a Carpet to be really 
BEAUTIFUL, and in good taste, there 
should be, as in a picture, a judicious 
disposal of light and shadow, with a 
gradation of very bright and of very 
dark tints ; some almost white, and 
others almost or quite black. 

The most truly chaste, rich, and 
elegant carpets are those where the 

Kattern is formed by one color only, 
ut arranged in every variety of shade. 
For instance, we have seen a Brussels 



CARPETS AND RUGS. 



277 



carpet entirely red ; the pattern formed 
by shades or tints varying from the 
deepest crimson (almost a black), to 
the palest pink (almost a white). Also 
one of green only, shaded from the 
darkest bottle-green, in some parts of 
the figure, to the lightest pea-green in 
others. Another, in which there was 
no color but brown, in all its various 
gradations, some of the shades being 
nearly black, others of a light buif. 
All these carpets had much the look 
of rich cut velvet. 

The Curtains, Sofas, etc., must 
be of corresponding colors, that the 
effect of the whole may be noble and 
elegant. 

Carpets of many gaudy colors are 
much less in demand than formerly. 
Two colors only, with the dark and 
light shades of each, will make a very 
handsome carpet. 

A very Light Blue Ground, 
■with the figure of shaded crimson or 
purple, looks extremely well; so does 
a salmon color or buff ground, with a 
deep green figure ; or a light yellow 
ground, with a shaded blue figure. 

If you cannot obtain a Hearth- 
rug that exactly corresponds with the 
carpet, get one entirely different; for a 
decided contrast looks better than a 
bad match. 

We have seen very handsome 
Hearth-rugs with a rich, black vel- 
vet-looking ground, and the figure of 
shaded blue, or of various tints of 
yellow and orange. 

No Carpet decidedly light colored 
throughout looks effective on the floor, 
or continues long clean. 

In Choosing Paper for a Room, 
avoid that which has a variety of 
colors, or a large showy figure, as no 
furniture can appear to advantage 
with such. Large figured papering 
makes a small room look smaller. 

The best Covering for a Kitchen 
Floor is a thick unfigured oil-cloth, 
of one color. 

Hints for Home Comfort. — Eat 
slowly and you will not over-eat. 

Keeping the feet warm will prevent 
headaches. 



Late at breakfast — hurried for din- 
ner — cross at tea. 

A short needle makes the most ex- 
pedition in plain sewing. 

Between husband and wife little 
attentions beget much love. 

Always lay your table neatly, 
whether you have company or not. 

Put your balls or reels of cotton into 
little bags, leaving the ends out. 

Whatever you may choose to give 
away, always besure to keep your temper. 

Dirty windows speak to the passer- 
by of the negligence of the inmates. 

In cold weather a leg of mutton im- 
proves by being hung three, four, or 
five weeks. 

When meat is hanging, chaoge its 
position frequently, to equally dis- 
tribute the juices. 

There is much more injury done by 
admitting visitors to invalids than is 
generally supposed. 

Matches, out of the reach of children, 
should be kept in every bedroom. They 
are cheap enough. 

Apple and suet dumplings are lighter 
when boiled in a net than in a cloth. 
Scum the pot well. 

When chamber towels get thin in 
the middle, cut them in two, sew the 
selvages together, and hem the sides. 

When you are particular in wishing 
to have precisely what you want from 
a butcher's, go and purchase it yourself 

One flannel petticoat will wear 
nearly as long as two, if turned behind 
part before, when the front begins to 
wear thin. 

People in general are not aware how 
very essential to the health of the in- 
mates is the free admission of light into 
their houses. 

When you dry salt for the table, do 
not place it in the salt-cells until it is 
cold, otherwise it will harden into a 
lump. 

Never put away plate, knives and 
forks, etc., uncleaned, or great incon- 
venience will arise when the articles 
are wanted. 

Feather beds should be opened every 
third year, the ticking well dusted, 
soaped, and waxed, the feathers dressed 



278 



YOU ask!-^i'll tell! 



and returned. 

Persons of defective siglit, when 
threading a needle, should hold it over 
something white, by which the sight 
will be assisted. 

In mending sheets and shirts, put 
the pieces sufficiently large, or in 
the first washing the thin parts give 
way, and the work is all undone. 

Reading by candle-light, place the 
candle behind you, that the rays may 
pass over your shoulder on to the book. 
This will relieve the eyes. 

A wire fire-guard, for each fireplace 
in a house, costs little, and greatly di- 
minishes the risk to life and property. 
Fix them before going to bed. 

In jvinter, get the work forward by 
daylight, to prevent running about at 
night with candles. Thus you escape 
grease spots, and risks of fire. 

Be at much pains to keep your chil- 
dren's feet dry and warm. Don't bury 
their bodies in heavy flannels and 
wools, and leave their knees and legs 
nakea. 

Apples and pears, cut into quarters 
and stripped of the rind, baked with a 
little water and sugar, and eaten with 
boiled rice, are capital food for 
children. 

A leather strap, with a buckle to 
fasten, is much more commodious than 
a cord for a box in general use for 
short distances. Cording and uncord- 
ing is a tedious job. 

After washing, overlook linen, and 
stitch on buttons, hooks, and eyes, 
otc. ; for this purpose keep a " house- 
wife's friend," full of miscellaneous 
threads, cottons, buttons, hooks, etc. 

For ventilation open your windows 
both at top and bottom. The fresh 
air rushes in one way, while the foul 
makes its exit the other. This is 
letting in your friend and expelling 
your enemy. 

There is not any real economy in 
purchasing cheap calico for gentle- 
men's night-shirts. Cheap calico soon 
wears into holes, and becomes discol- 
ored in washing. 

Persons very commonly complain 
of indigestion. How can it be won- 



dered at, when they seem, by their 
habit of swallowing their food whole- 
sale, to forget for what purpose they 
are provided with teeth ? 

Never allow your servants to put 
wiped knives on your table, for, gen- 
erally speaking, you may see that they 
have been wiped with a dirty cloth. 
If a knife is brightly cleaned, they are 
compelled to use a clean cloth. 

There is not anything gained in 
economy by having very young and 
inexperienced servants at low wages; 
they break, waste, and destroy more 
than an equivalent for higher wages 
setting aside comfort and respecla 
bility. 

N« article in dress tarnishes sc 
readily as black crape trimmings, and 
few things injure it more than damp ; 
therefore, to preserve its beauty on 
bennets, a lady in nice mourning 
should, in her evening walks, at all 
seasons of the year, take as her com 
panion an old parasol to shade her 
crape. 

Family Tool Chests. — Much in- 
convenience and considerable expense 
might be saved, if it were the general 
custom to keep in every house certain 
tools for the purpose of performing at 
home what are called small jobs, in- 
stead of being always obliged to send 
for a mechanic and pay him for execu- 
ting little things that, in most cases, 
could be sufficiently well done by a 
man or boy belonging to the family, 
if the proper instruments were at hand. 

The Cost of these Articles is 
very trifling, and the advantages of 
having them always in the house are 
far beyond the expense. 

For instance, there should be an 
axe, a hatchet, a saw (a large wood-saw 
also, with a buck or stand, if wood is 
burned), a claw-hammer, a mallet, two 
gimlets of ditterent sizes, two screw- 
drivers, a chisel, a small plane, one or 
two jack-knives, a pair of large scis- 
sors or shears, and a carpet-fork or 
stretcher. 

Also an assortment of Nails of 
various sizes, from large spikes down 
to small tacks, not forgetting brass- 



HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 



279 



headed nails, some larger and some 
smaller. 

The Nails and screws should be 
kept in a wooden box, made with di- 
visions to separate the various sorts, 
for it is very troublesome to have them 
mixed. 

Pkinted Papers are unfit for 
"WRAPPING anything, as the printing- 
ink rubs off on the articles enclosed in 
them, and also soils the gloves of the 
person that carries the parcel. 

When Shopping, if the person at 
the counter proceeds to wrap up your 
purchase in a newspaper (a thing 
rarely attempted in a genteel shop), 
refuse to take it in such a cover. It 
is the business of every respectable 
shopkeeper to provide proper paper 
for this purpose, and printed paper is 
not proper. 

Beds for the Poor. — Maple or 
beech-tree leaves are recommended for 
filling the beds of poor persons. They 
should be gathered on a dry day in the 
autumn, and perfectly dried. It is 
said that they smell grateful, and will 
not harbor vermin. They are also 
very springy. 

To Preserve Tables. — A piece of 
oil-cloth (about twenty inches long) is 
a useful appendage to a common sit- 
ting-room. Kept in the closet, it can 
be available at any time to place jars 
upon, etc., etc., which are likely to soil 
your table during the process of dis- 
pensing their contents : a wing and 
duster are harmonious accompani- 
ments to the oil-cloth. 

Gilt Frames may be protected from 
flies and dust by oiled tarlatan pinned 
over them. Tarlatan, already prepared, 
may be purchased at the upholsterer's. 
If it cannot be procured, it is easily 
made by brushing boiled oil over cheap 
tarlatan. It is an excellent material 
for keeping dust from books, vases, 
wool work, and every description of 
household ornament. 

Dam^) "Walls. — The following 
method is recommended to prevent the 
effect of damp walls on paper in rooms: 
— Line the damp part of the wall 
with sheet lead, rolled very thin, and 



fastened up with small copper nails. 
It may be immediately covered with 
paper. The lead is not to be thicker 
than that which lines tea-chests. 

BEDROOMS should not be scoured 
in the winter time, as colds and sickness 
may be produced thereby. Dry scour- 
ing, upon the French plan, which con- 
sists of scrubbing the floors with dry 
brushes, may be resorted to, and will be 
found more effective than can at first 
be imagined. If a bedroom is wet 
scoured, a dry day should be chosen — 
the windows should be opened, the 
linen removed, and a fire should be lit 
when the operation is finished. 

To get Rid of a Bad Smell in a 
Room newly Painted. — Place a ves- 
sel full of lighted charcoal in the 
middle of the room, and throw on it 
two or three handfuls of juniper ber- 
ries, shut the windows, the chimney, 
and the door close ; twenty-four hours 
afterwards, the room may be opened, 
when it will be found that the sickly, 
unwholesome smell will be entirely 
gone. The smoke of the juniper berry 
possesses this advantage, that should 
anything be left in the room, such aa 
tapestry, etc., none of it will be 
spoiled. 

PAINT. — To get rid of the smell 
of oil-paint plunge a handful of hay 
into a pailful of water, and let it stand 
in the room newly painted. 

If a Larder, by its position, will not 
admit of opposite windows, then a 
current of air must be admitted by 
means of a flue from the outside. 

For Keeping a Door Open, place a 
brick, covered neatly with a piece of 
carpet, against the door. 

To Ascertain whether a Bed be 
Aired. — Introduce a glass goblet be- 
tween the sheets for a minute or two, 
just when the warming-pan is taken 
out; if the bed be dry, there will only 
be a slight cloudy appearance on the 
glass, but if not, the damp of the bed 
will assume the more formidable ap- 
pearance of drops, the warning of 
danger. 

To Prevent the Smoking of a 
Lamp. — Soak the wick in strong 



280 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



vinegar, and dry it well before you use 
it ; it will then burn clear and bright, 
and give much satisfaction for the 
trifling trouble in preparing it. 

WATER of every kind, except rain- 
water, will speedily cover the inside of 
a tea-kettle with an unpleasant crust. 
This may easily be guarded against by 
placing a clean oyster-shell in the tea- 
kettle, which will always keep it in 
good order, by attracting the particles 
of earth or of stone. 

To Soften Hard Water, or purify 
river water, simply boil it, and then 
leave it exposed to the atmosphere. 

Cabbage Water should be thrown 
away immediately it is done with, and 
the vessel rinsed with clean water, or it 
will cause unpleasant smells. 

A little Charcoal mixed with clear 
water thrown into a sink will disinfect 
and deodorize it. 

Where a Chimney Smokes only 
when a fire is first lighted, it may be 
guarded against by allowing the fire to 
kindle gradually. 

Ground Glass. — The irosted appear- 
ance of ground glass may be very 
nearly imitated by gently dabbing the 
glass over with a piece of glazier's 
putty, stuck on the ends of the fingers. 
When applied with a light and even 
touch, the resemblance is considerable. 
Family Clocks ought only to be 
oiled with the very purest oil, purified 
by a quart of lime-water to a gallon of 
oil, in which it has been well shaken, 
and suffered to stand for three or four 
days, when it may be drawn off. 

Neat Mode of Soldering.— Cut out 
a piece of tinfoil the size of the sur- 
faces to be soldered. Then dip a feather 
in a solution of sal-ammoniac, and 
wet over the surfaces of the metal ; 
then place them in their proper po- 
sition, with the tinfoil between. Put 
it so arranged on a piece of iron hot 
enough to melt the foil. When cold, 
the surfaces will be found firmly sol- 
dered together. 

Maps and Charts. — Maps, charts, 
or engravings may be effectually var- 
nished by brushing a very delicate 
coating of gutta-percha solution over 



their surface. It is perfectly trans- 
parent, and is said to improve the ap- 
pearance of pictures. By coating both 
sides of important documents they can 
be kept waterproof and preserved per- 
fectly. 

FURNITURE made in the winter, 
and brought from a cold warehouse 
into a warm apartment, is very liable 
to crack. 

Paper Fire-Screens should be coated 
with transparent varnish, otherwise 
they will soon become soiled and dis- 
colored. 

Pastils for Burning. — Cascarilla 
bark, eight drams ; gum benzoin, four 
drams ; yellow sanders, two drams ; 
styrax, two drams ; olibanum, two 
drams ; charcoal, six ounces ; nitre, 
one and a half drams ; mucilage of 
tragacanth, sufficient quantity. Re- 
duce the substances to a powder, and 
form into a paste with the mucilage, 
and divide into small cones. Then 
put them into an oven until quite 
dry. 

Easy Method of Breaking Glass 
to any required Figure. — Make a 
small notch by means of a file on the 
edge of a piece of glass, then make 
the end of a tobacco-pipe, or of a rod 
of iron of the same size, red hot in 
the fire; apply the hot iron to the 
notch, and draw it slowly along the 
surface of the glass in any direction 
you please; a crack will follow the 
direction of the iron. 

Bottling and Fining. — Corka 
should be sound, clean, and sweet. 
Beer and porter should be allowed to 
stand in the bottles a day or two be- 
fore being corked. If for speedy use, 
wiring is not necessary. Laying the 
bottles on their sides will assist the 
ripening for use. Those that are to be 
kept should be wired, and put to stand 
upright in sawdust. Wines should be 
bottled in spring. If not fine enough, 
draw off a pitcherful and dissolve isin- 
glass in it, in the proportion of half 
an ounce to ten gallons, and then pour 
back through the bung- hole. Let it 
stand a few weeks longer. Tap the 
cask above the leea. When the isin- 



CARE OF FURNITURE. 



231 



glass is put iuto the cask, stir it round 
with a stick, taking great care not to 
touch the lees at the bottom. For 
wjiite wine only, mix with the isin- 
glass a quarter of a pint of milk to 
each gallon of wine, some whites of 
eggs, beaten with some of the wine. 
One white of an egg to four gallons 
makes a good fining. 

To Sweeten Casks. —Mix half a 
pint of vitriol with a quart of water, 
pour it into the barrel, and roll it 
about; next day add one pound of 
chalk, and roll again. Bung down for 
three or four days, then rinse well with 
hot water. 

Oil Paintings hung over the man- 
tlepiece are liable to wrinkle with the 
heat. 

To Loosen Criass Stoppers of Bot- 
tles. — With a feather rub a drop or 
two of salad oil round the stopper, 
close to the mouth of the bottle or de- 
canter, which must then be placed be- 
fore the fire, at the distance of about 
eighteen inches ; the heat will cause 
the oil to insinuate itself between the 
stopper and the neck. When the bot- 
tle or decanter has grown warm, gently 
strike the stopper on one side, and 
then on the other, with any light 
wooden instrument; then try it with 
the hand ; if it will not yet move, 
place it again before the fire, adding 
another drop of oil. After a while 
strike again as before; and, by perse- 
vering in this process, however tightly 
it may be fastened in, you will at 
length succeed in loosening it. This 
is decidedly the best plan. 

Lamp Wicks. — Old cotton stock- 
ings may be made into lamp wicks, 
and will answer very well. 

The Best Lamp Oil is that which is 
clear and nearly colorless, like water. 

China Teapots are the safest, and, 
in many respects, the most pleasant. 
Wedgewood-ware is very apt, after a 
time, to acquire a disagreeable taste. 

Care of Linen. — When linen is 
well dried and laid by for use, nothing 
more is necessary than to secure it 
from damp and insects ; the latter may 
be agreeably performed by a judicious 



mixture of aromatic shrubs and flow- 
ers, cut up and sewed in silken bags, 
to be interspersed among the drawers 
and shelves. These ingredients may 
consist of lavender, thyme, roses, cedar 
shavings, powdered sassafras, cassia 
lignea, etc., into which a few drops of 
otto of roses, or other strong-scented 
perfume, may be thrown. In all cases 
it will be found more consistent with 
economy to examine and repair all 
washable articles, more especially linen, 
that may stand in need of it, previous 
to sending them to the laundry. It 
will also be prudent to have every ar- 
ticle carefully numbered, and so ar- 
ranged, after washing, as to have 
their regular turn and term in domes- 
tic use. 

MENDING. — When you make a 
new article, always save the pieces until 
" mending - day," which may come 
sooner than expected. It will be well 
even to buy a little extra quantity for 
repairs. 

Cleansing^ of Furniture. — The 
cleaning of furniture forms an impor- 
tant part of domestic economy, not only 
in regard to neatness, but also in point 
of expense. 

The Eeadiest Mode indeed con- 
sists in good manual rubbing, or the 
essence of elbows, as it is whimsically 
termed ; but our finest cabinet-work 
requires something more, where bril- 
liancy of polish is of importance. 

The Italian Cabinet-work in 
this respect excels that of any other 
country. The workmen first saturate 
the surface with olive-oil, and then 
apply a solution of gum arable in 
boiling alcohol. This mode of var- 
nishing is equally brilliant, if not su- 
perior, to that employed by the French 
in their most elaborate works. 

But Another Mode may be sub- 
stituted, which has less the appearance 
of a hard varnish, and may always be 
applied so as to restore the pristine 
beauty of the furniture by a little 
manual labor. Heat a gallon of water, 
in which dissolve one pound and a half 
of potash ; add a pound of virgin wax, 
boiling the whole for half an hour, then 



282 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



suffer it to cool, when the wax will 
float on the surface. Put the wax into 
a mortar, and triturate it with a marble 
pestle, adding soft water to it until it 
forms a soft paste, which, laid neatly 
on furniture, or even on paintings, and 
carefully rubbed, when dry, with a 
woollen rag, gives a polish of great 
brilliancy, without the harshness of the 
drier varnishes. 

CARPETS. —If the corner of a 
carpet becomes loose, and prevents the 
door opening, or trips every one up that 
enters the room, nail it down at once. 
A dog's-eared carpet marks the sloven 
as well as the dog's-eared book. A 
gentleman, travelling some years ago, 
took a hammer and tacks with him, 
because he found dog's-eared carpets 
at all the inns where he rested. At 
one of these inns he tacked down the 
carpet, which, as usual, was loose near 
the door, and soon afterwards rang for 
his dinner. While the carpet was 
loose, the door could not be opened 
without a hard push ; so when the 
waiter came up, he just unlatched the 
door, and then going back a couple of 
yards, he rushed against it, as his 
habit was, with a sudden spring to 
force it open. But the wrinkles of the 
carpet were no longer there to stop it, 
and not meeting with the expected re- 
sistance, the unfortunate waiter fell full 
length into the room. It had never 
entered his head that so much trouble 
might be saved by means of a ham- 
mer and half a dozen tacks, until his 
fall taught him that makeshift is a 
very unprofitable kind of shift. There 
are a good many houses where a simi- 
lar practical lesson might be of ser- 
vice. 

Cleaning Carpets, — Take a pail 
of cold water, and add to it three gills 
of ox-gall. Rub it into the carpet 
with a soft brush. It will raise a 
lather, which must be washed off with 
clear cold water. Rub dry with a 
clean cloth. In nailing down a carpet 
after the floor ha.s been washed, be 
certain that the floor is quite dry, or 
the nails will rust and injure the 
carpet. Fuller's earth is used for 



cleaning carpets, and weak solutions 
of alum or soda are used for reviving 
the colors. The crumb of a hot 
wheaten loaf rubbed over a carpet has 
been found effective. . 

Beat a Carpet on the wrong side 
first, and then more gently on the 
right side. Beware of using sticks 
with sharp points, which may tear the 
carpet. 

Sweeping Carpets. — Persons who 
are accustomed to use tea-leaves for 
sweeping their carpets, and find that 
they leave stains, will do well to em- 
ploy fresh-cut grass instead. It is 
better than tea-leaves for preventing 
dust, and gives the carpets a very 
bright, fresh look. Or, clean paper 
may be torn into small pieces, and, 
after being wet, scattered over the 
floor. 

A Half-worn Carpet may be made 
to last longer by ripping it apart, and 
transposing the bxeadtlis. 

A Stair Carpet should never be 
swept down with a long broom, but 
always with a short- handled brnsh, 
and a dust-pan held closely under 
each step of the stairs. 

Oil Cloth, should never be scrubbed 
with a brush, but, after being first 
swept, it should be cleansed by wash- 
ing with a large soft cloth and luke- 
warm or cold water. On no account 
use soap or hot water, as either will 
bring off the paint. 

Straw Matting may be cleaned 
with a large coar.se cloth dipped in 
salt and water, and then wiped dry : 
the salt prevents the matting from 
turning yellow. 

Method of Cleaning Paper-Hang- 
ings. — Take an average size square 
loaf two days old, and cut it into four 
pieces. With one of these pieces, after 
having blown off all the dust from the 
paper to be cleaned, by the means of a 
good pair of bellows, begin at the top 
of the room, holding the crust in the 
hand, and wiping lightly downward 
with the crumb, about half a yard at 
each stroke, till the upper part of the 
hangings is completely cleaned all 
round. Then go round again, with 



CARE OF FURNITURE. 



28^ 



the like sweeping stroke downwards, 
always commencing each successive 
course a little higher than the upper 
stroke had extended, till the bottom 
be finished. This operation, if care- 
fully performed, will frequently make 
very old paper look almost equal to 
new. Great caution must be used not 
by any means to rub the paper hard, 
nor to attempt cleaning it the cross or 
horizontal way. The dirty part of the 
bread, too, must be each time cut 
away, and the pieces renewed as soon 
as it may become necessary. 

Rosewood Furniture should be 
rubbed geixtly every day with a clean 
soft cloth to keep it in order. 

Ottomans and Sofas, whether 
covered with cloth, damask, or chintz, 
will look much the better for being 
gleaned occasionally with bran and 
flannel. 

Dining' Tables may be polished by 
rubbing them for some time with a 
eoft cloth and a little cold drawn lin- 
seed oil. 

A Mahogany Frame should be first 
well dusted, and then cleaned with a 
flannel dipped in sweet oil. 

To Clean Cane-bottom Chairs. — 
Turn up the chair bottom, etc., and 
with hot water and a sponge wash the 
canework well, so that it may become 
completely soaked. Should it be very 
dirty, you must add soap. Let it dry 
in the open air, if possible, or in a 
place where there is a thorough 
draught, and it will become as tight 
and firm as when new, provided it has 
not been broken. 

ALABASTER. — For cleaning it 
there is nothing better than soap and 
water. Stains may be removed by wash- 
ing with soap and water, then white- 
washing the stained part, letting it 
stand some hours, then washing off the 
whitewash, and rubbing the stained 
part. 

To Clean Marble. — Take two parts 
of common soda, one part of pumice- 
stone, and one part of finely-powdered 
chalk ; sift it through a fine sieve, and 
mix it with water; then rub it well 
all over the marble, and the stains 



will be removed ; then wash the mar- 
ble over with soap and water, and it 
will be as clean as it was at first. 

To Clean Silver Plate. — Fill a 
large saucepan with water ; put into 
it one ounce of carbonate of potash 
and a quarter of a pound of whiting. 
Now put in all the spoons, forks, and 
small plate, and boil them for twenty 
minutes; after which take the saucepan 
off the fire and allow the liquor to -be- 
come cold ; then take each piece out 
and polish with soft leather. A soft 
brush must be used to clean the em- 
bossed and engraved parts. 

GLASS should be washed in cold 
water, which gives it a brighter and 
clearer look than when cleaned with 
warm water. 

Glass Vessels, and other utensils, 
may be purified and cleaned by rinsing 
them out with powdered charcoal. 

BOTTLES. — There is no easier 
method of cleaning glass bottles than 
putting into them fine coals, and well 
shaking, either with water ot not, hot 
or cold, according to the substance that 
fouls the bottle. Charcoal left in a 
bottle or jar for a little time will take 
away disagreeable smells. 

To Clean Paint. — There is a very 
simple method to clean paint that has 
become dirty, and if our housewives 
should adopt it, it would save them a 
great deal of trouble. Provide a plate 
with some of the best whiting to be 
had, and have ready some clean warm 
water and a piece of flannel, which dip 
into the water and squeeze nearly dry ; 
then take as much whiting as will 
adhere to it, apply it to the painted 
surface, when a little rubbing will 
instantly remove any dirt or grease. 
After which wash the part well with 
clean water, rubbing it dry with a soft 
chamois. Paint thus cleaned looks as 
well as when first laid on, without any in- 
jury to the most delicate colors. It is far 
better than using soap, and does not re- 
quire more than half the time and labor. 

To Restore Scratched Furniture. 
— Scrape one pound of beeswax into 
shavings in a pan ; add half a gallon 
of spirits of turpentine, and one pint of 



284 



YOU ask! — i'll, tell! 



linseed oil. Let it remain twelve 
hours, then stir it well with a stick 
into u liquid ; while stirring add one- 
quarter j)ound shellac varnish and one 
ounce alkanet root. Put this mixture 
into a gallon jar, and stand it before 
the fire or in an oven for a week (to 
keep it just warm) ; shake it up three 
or four times a day ; then strain it 
through a hair sieve and bottle it. 
Pour about a teaspoonful on a wad of 
baize; go lightly over the face and 
other parts of mahogany furniture; 
then rub briskly with a similar dry 
wad, and in three minutes it will pro- 
duce a dark brilliant polish un- 
equalled. 

Boards, to Scour. — Lime, one part ; 
sand, three parts ; soft soap, two parts. 
Lay a little on the boards with the 
scrubbing-brush, and rub thoroughly. 
Rinse with clean water, and rub dry. 
This will keep the boards of a good 
color, and will also keep away vermin. 

CHARCOAL. — All sorts of glass 
vessels and other utensils may be puri- 
fied from long retained smells of every 
kind, in the easiest and most perfect 
manner, by rinsing them out well with 
charcoal powder, after the grosser im- 
purities have been scoured off with 
sand and potash. Rubbing the teeth 
and washing out the mouth with fine 
charcoal powder, will render the teeth 
beautifully white, and the breath per- 
fectly sweet, where an oflFeusive breath 
has been owing to a scorbutic disposi- 
tion of the gums. Putrid water is 
immediately deprived of its bad smell 
by charcoal. When meat, fish, etc., 
from intense heat, or long keeping, are 
likely to pass into a state of corruption, 
a simple and pure mode of keeping 
them sound and healthful is by put- 
ting a few pieces of charcoal, each 
about the size of an egg, into the pot 
or saucepan wherein the fish or flesh is 
to be boiled. Among others, an ex- 
periment of this kind was tried upon a 
turbot, which appeared to be too far 
gone to be eatable; the cook, as ad- 
vised, put three or four pieces of char- 
coal, each the size of an egg, under the 
Htrainer, in the fish kettle; after boil- 



ing the proper time, the turbot came 
to the table sweet and firm. 

To Take out Stains from Mahog- 
any Furniture. — Stains and spots 
may be taken out of mahogany furni- 
ture with a little aquafortis or oxalic 
acid and water, rubbing the part by 
means of a cork, till the color is re- 
stored, observing afterwards to wash 
the wood well with water, and to dry 
and polish as usual. 

To Take Ink-Stains out of Mahog- 
any. — Put a few drops of spirits of 
nitre in a teaspoonful of water. Touch 
the spot with a feather dipped in the 
mixture, and on the ink disappearing, 
rub it over immediately with a rag 
wetted in cold water, or there will be 
a white mark, which will not be easily 
effaced. 

To Remove Ink-Stains from Silver. 
— The tops and other portions of silver 
inkstands frequently become deeply 
discolored with ink, which is difficult 
to remove by ordinary means. It may, 
however, be completely eradicated by 
making a little chloride of lime into 
a paste with water, and rubbing it 
upon the stains. Chloride of lime haa 
been misnamed "The general bleacher," 
but it is a foul enemy to all metallic 
surfaces. 

To Take Ink-Stains out of a Colored 
Table-Cover. — Dissolve a teaspoonful 
of oxalic acid in a teacupof hot water; 
rub the stained part well with the solu- 
tion. 

To Take Ink out of Boards. — 
Strong muriatic acid, or spirits of salts, 
applied with a piece of cloth ; after- 
wards well washed with water. 

Oil Grease may be removed from a 
hearth by covering it immediately with 
thick hot ashes, or with burning coals. 

Marble may be Cleaned by mixing 
up a quantity of the strongest soup- 
lees with quicklime, to the consistence 
of milk, and laying it on the marble for 
twenty-four hours ; clean it afterwards 
with soap and water. 

Silver and Plated Ware should be 
washed with a sponge and warm soap- 
suds every day after using, and wiped 
dry with a clean soft towel. 



CARE OF FURNITURE. 



285 



Cleaning Mirrors. — Mix some fine 
whitening in a little diluted alcohol, 
and smear it upon the glass with a soft 
rag, after which rub off with chamois 
leather. Looking-glasses may thus 
be cleaned, and fly specks, etc., re- 
moved. 

If the frames are not varnished, the 
greatest care is necessary to keep them 
quite dry, so as not to touch them with 
the sponge, as this will discolor or 
take off the gilding. To clean the 
frames, take a little raw cotton in the 
state of wool, and rub the frames with 
it; this will take off all the dust and 
dirt without injuring the gilding. If 
the frames are well varnished, rub 
them with spirit of wine, which will 
take out all spots, and give them a fine 
polish. Varnished doors may be done 
in the same manner. Never use any 
cloth to frames or drawings, or unvar- 
nished oil paintings, when cleaning 
and dusting them. 

Spikits of Hartshoen (Ammonia) 
is also an excellent cleaner. A few 
drops added to water will instantly re- 
move all dirt from your mirrors and 
window-panes. 

To Anneal Glass or Crockery 
"Ware. — When new, before using these 
articles, place them in a large boiler, 
and cover them with cold water. Place 
the boiler over the fire, and let it come 
slowly to a boil. Continue to boil for 
half an hour, then remove the boiler 
from the fire, and let it cool slowly ; 
then take out the articles, which will 
not be so liable to crack when hot water 
is put in them. 

Lamp Chimneys annealed in this 
way will outlast three not so treated. 

To Temper New Ovens and Iron 
Ware. — New ovens, previous to being 
used, should have a fire kept in them 
for half a day. When the fire is re- 
moved, the mouth of the oven should 
be closed. It should not be baked in 
till heated the second time. If not 
treated in this manner, it will not 
retain its heat well. New flat-irons, 
previous to using them, should be 
heated for half a day, in order to have 
them retain their heat well. Iron 



cooking utensils will be less liable to 
crack if heated previous to using them, 
five or six hours. They should be 
heated gradually, and cooled in the 
same manner. Cold water should not 
be turned into empty iron pots that are 
hot, as it will crack them by cooling 
the surface too suddenly. 

To Temper Stoves or Heaters.— 
All stoves, grates, or furnaces, when 
new, should have the fire kindled in 
them slowly, letting it burn up gradu- 
ally until the heat is as great as it will 
be required. Keep up the fire to this 
heat for an hour, then let the fire grad- 
ually burn out. Stoves and furnaces 
so treated will not only keep in better 
repair and last longer, but will work 
better, and retain and give a more uni- 
form heat. 

ASHES, when left in the grate or 
on the hearth, absorb a great deal of 
heat ; and it will be found that a small 
fire in a clear grate and a clean hearth, 
will give out more heat than a large 
fire cumbered with ashes. 

A Large Stove is much more eco- 
nomical, and requires much less coal 
to give as much heat as a small one, 
and requires much less care. 

By using a small stove it has to be 
put on a good draught, and thus a 
good portion of heat is drawn up 
the chimney, and clinkers form in the 
stove, and the lining burns out. 

By using a large stove, large coal 
(which gives a stronger heat) can be 
used, and the draught may be nearly 
shut off, thus giving a larger body of 
fire with a steady heat, and preventing 
its escape through the chimney, and 
insuring a perfect combustion of the 
coal. A stove should never be allowed 
to become red hot, for in this state the 
iron becomes very porous, and admits 
of the escape (through these pores) of 
the deleterious gases from the burning 
coals into the room ; this, together 
with the air in the room, being burnt 
or deprived of its oxygen by coming 
in contact with the red-hot stove, 
renders it unfit for breathing. 

It is a good plan to place a vessel 
containing clear water on top of stoves 



286 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



or beate.-s, to prevent the air from be- 
coming too dry for healthy respiration. 

To Remove Clinkers from Stoves. 
— Some kinds of coal are liable to form 
clinkers, which adhere to the fire-brick 
lining of stoves, grates, and furnaces, 
and become the source of great annoy- 
ance, as they cannot be removed by 
usual means without breaking the 
fire-brick. Persons who are thus an- 
noyed will be glad to know that by 
putting a few oyster-shells in the fire 
close to the clinkers, the latter will 
become so loose as to be readily re- 
moved without breaking the lining. 

Filling' Lamps. — This should 
always be done by daylight — it can 
then be done without coming near fire ; 
to fill one lamp while another one is 
burning near it, is very dangerous. 
If it should be forgotten to fill the 
lamps by daylight, insist on having 
candles used until daylight comes 
again. The lamps will generally be 
ready after this. 

To Extinguish a Lamp, turn it 
half way down, and then blow side- 
ways at the bottom of the chinCiney. 

Never blow down the chimney! Many 
fatal accidents have resulted lately 
through tins practice. And never at- 
tempt to kindle a fire by pouring coal 
oil, benzine, or turpentine upon your 
wood or shavings. Scores of deaths 
result from this latter course. Domes- 
tics, through ignorance of the terribly 
destructive properties of these agents, 
are very apt to employ them in the 
manner referred to. A strict caution, 
therefore, should be given them in 
every instance. 

To Remove Iron Rust from White 
Goods. — A remedy which I have 
tried and found effectual, is this : One 
ounce of oxalic acid dissolved in one 
quart of water. Wet the iron rust 
spots in this solution anfl lay in the 
hot sun ; the rust will disappear in 
from three to twenty minutes, accord- 
ing to its depth. I have just experi- 
mented by holding a rusted cloth, wet 
in this solution, over the steam of a 
boiling tea-kettle, and the rust disap- 
peared almost instantly. In either 



case, the cloth should be well rinsed in 
water as soon as the rust disappears, 
to prevent injury from the acid. Many 
use this acid to remove fruit and ink 
stains from white fabrics. When di- 
luted still more, it may be used to re- 
move fruit or ink stains from the hands. 

To Remove Stains from a Mat- 
tress. — Make a thick paste by wet- 
ting starch with cold water. Spread 
this over the stain, first placing the 
mattress in the sun. Rub off in a 
couple of hours, and if the ticking is 
not perfectly clean, repeat the process. 

To remove the stains on spoons 
caused by using them for boiled eggs, 
take a little common salt moist between 
the thumb and finger, and briskly rub 
the stain, which will soon disappear. 

To Take Marking-Ink out of 
Linen. — Use a saturated solution of 
cyanuret of potassium applied with a 
camel-hair brush. After the marking- 
ink disappears, the linen should be 
well washed in cold water. 

To Remove Ink from Paper, etc. 
— The process of thoroughly extract- 
ing all traces of writing-ink, whether 
accidentally spilt or written in error, is 
to alternately wash the paper with a 
camel-hair brush dipped in a solution 
of cyanuret of potassium and oxalic 
acid ; then when the ink has disap- 
peared, wash the paper with pure 
water. By this process checks have 
been altered when written on " patent 
check paper," from which it was 
supposed by a recent inventor to be 
impossible to remove writing. 

To Take Stains of Wine out of 
Linen. — Hold the articles in milk 
while it is boiling on the fire, and the 
stains will soon disappear. 

Fruit Stains in Linen. — To re- 
move them, rub the part on each side 
with yellow soap, then tie up a piece 
of pearlash in the cloth, etc., and soak 
well in hot water, or boil ; afterwards 
expose the stained part to the sun and 
air until removed. 

Mildewed Linen may be restored 
by soaping the spots while wet, cover- 
ing them with tine chalk scraped to 
powder, and rubbing it well in. 



CARE OF CLOTHING. 



287 



To keep Moths, Beetles, etc., 
from Clothes. — Put a piece of cam- 
phor in a linen bag, or some aromatic 
herbs in the drawers, among linen or 
woollen clothes, and neither moth nor 
worm will come near them. 

Clothes Closets that have become 
infested with moths should be well 
rubbed with a strong decoction of 
tobacco, and repeatedly sprinkled with 
spirits of camphor. 

Iron Stains may be removed from 
marble by wetting the spots with oil of 
vitriol, or with lemon-juice, or with 
oxalic acid diluted in spirit of wine, 
and, after a quarter of an hour, rub- 
bing them dry with a soft linen cloth. 

Scouring Drops, for removing 
grease : — Mix three ounces of camphor 
and one ounce essence of lemon. 
Pour it over the part that is greasy, 
rub it until quite dry with a piece of 
clean flannel. If the grease is not 
quite removed, repeat the application. 
When done, brush the part well, and 
hang it in the open air to take away 
the smell. 

To Extract Grease Spots from 
Books or Paper. — Gently warm the 
greased or spotted part of the book or 
paper, and then press upon it pieces 
of blotting-paper, one after another, 
so as to absorb as much of the grease 
as possible. Have ready some fine 
clear essential oil of turpentine heated 
almost to a boiling state, warm the 
greased leaf a little, and then, with a 
soft clean brush, apply the heated tur- 
pentine to both sides of the spotted 
part. By repeating this application, 
the grease will be extracted. Lastly, 
with another brush dipped in rectified 
spirits of wine, go over the place, and 
the grease will no longer appear, 
neither will the paper be discolored. 

Stains and Marks from Books.— 
A solution of oxalic acid, citric acid, 
or tartaric acid, is attended with the 
least risk, and may be applied upon 
the paper and prints without fear of 
damage. These acids, taking out 
writing-ink, and not touching the 
printing, can be used for restoring 
oooks where the margins have been 



written upon, without injuring the 
text. 

To Wash Flannel. — Never rub 
soap upon it. Make a suds by dis- 
solving the soap in warm water. Rinse 
in warm water. Very cold or hot 
Avater will shrink flannel. Shake it 
out several minutes before hanging to 
dry. 

Cleaning Old Clothes. — Grease 
spots should first be taken out with 
liquid ammonia, and then you apply 
the remedy of some of the Chatham 
street dealers in old clothes, namely, 
one or two ounces of common tobacco 
boiled in half a gallon of water. In the 
hot decoction you dip a stiff brush, 
and rub the clothes thoroughly in all 
directions, no matter what color of 
cloth. When the liquid is well pene- 
trated, rub in one direction and sus- 
pend the cloth to dry ; by this treat- 
ment it becomes clean and lustrous, 
and singularly enough, no tobacco 
smell will remain. 

Washing Woollen Bed Clothing. 

— It is said by some, wash in warm 
water ; by others in cold water. We 
know that warm water will cause 
shrinking. A large, fine rose blanket 
washed at three different times, short- 
ened six to seven inches each washing. 
In the centre it pulled up and made 
a shapeless thing. We were told to 
wash in warm water and rinse in 
water of the same temperature. It 
was done, and with perfect success. 
The blanket is even longer and more 
even. The shrinking seems to take 
place on the sudden change of tho 
temperature from warm water to cold. 
The gradual cooling and drying after- 
ward does not seem to affect it any ; so 
the slow change in the temperature of 
frozen fruit leaves the fruit unhurt. 

To Wash Calico without Fading. 

— Infuse three gills of salt in four 
quarts of water ; put the calico in 
while hot, and leave it till cold, and in 
this way the colors are rendered per- 
manent, and will not fade by subse- 
quent washing. So says a lady who 
has frequently made the experiment. 

Washing Silk. — No person should 



2S8 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



ever wriag or crush a piece of silk 
when it is wet, because the creases thus 
made will remain forever, if the silk is 
thick and hard. The way to wash silk 
is to spread it smoothly upon a clean 
board, rub white soap upon it and 
brush it with a clean hard brush. The 
silk must be rubbed until all the grease 
is extracted, then the soap should be 
brushed off with clean cold water, ap- 
plied to both sides. The cleansing of 
silk is a very nice operation. Most of 
the colors are liable to be extracted 
with washing in hot suds, especially 
blue and green colors. A little alum 
dissolved in the last water that is 
brushed on the silk, tends to prevent 
the colors from running. Alcohol and 
camphene mixed together is used for 
removing grease from silk. 

Cleaning Silks, Satins, Colored 
Woollen Dresses, etc. — Four ounces 
of soft soap, four ounces of honey, the 
white of an egg, and a wineglassful of 
gin ; mix well together, and scour the 
article with a rather hard brush thor- 
oughly ; afterwards rinse it in cold 
water, leave to drain, and iron while 
quite damp. — A friend informs us 
that she believes this recipe has never 
been made public ; she finds it an ex- 
cellent one, having used it for a length 
of time with perfect success. 

Grease Spots from Silk. — Upon a 
deal table lay a piece of woollen cloth 
or baize, upon which lay smoothly the 
part stained, with the right side down- 
wards. Having spread a piece of 
brown paper on the top, apply a flat 
iron just hot enough to scorch the 
paper. About five or eight seconds is 
usually sufficient. Then rub the 
etained part briskly with a piece of 
8ap-paper. 

To iteep Silk. — Silk articles should 
oot be kept folded in white paper, as 
the chloride of lime used in bleaching 
the paper will probably impair the 
color of the silk. Brown or blue pa- 
per is better; the yellowish smooth 
Indian paper is best of all. Silk in- 
tended for dress should not be kept 
long in the house before it is made up, 
as Tying in *he folds will have a ten- 



dency to impair its aurability by caus- 
ing it to cut or split, particularly if 
the silk has been thickened by gum. 
Thread lace veils are very easily cut ; 
satin and velvet being soft are not 
easily cut, but dresses of velvet should 
not be laid by with any weight above 
them. If the nap of thin velvet ia 
laid down, it is not possible to raise it 
up again. Hard silk should never be 
wrinkled, because the thread is easily 
broken in the crease, and it never can 
be rectified. The way to take the 
wrinkles out of silk scarfs or handker- 
chiefs is to moisten the surface evenly 
with a sponge and some weak glue, 
and then pin the silk with toilet pins 
around the selvages on a mattress or 
feather bed, taking pains to draw out 
the silk as tight aj possible. When 
dry the wrinkles will have disappeared. 
The reason of this is obvious to every 
person. It is a nice job to dress light 
colored silk, and few should try it. 
Some silk articles may be moistened 
with weak glue or gum water, and the 
wrinkles ironed out on the wrong side 
by a hot flat-iron. 

How to Smooth Ribbons. — Take 
a moderately hot flat-iron on the iron- 
ing board, then place the ribbon on 
the left side of the iron, and pull it 
carefully through underneath the iron. 
If the ribbon is not pulled too fitst, 
and the iron is the right warmth, this 
will be found to be a much better way 
than simply rubbing the iron over the 
ribbon. 

To make Silk which has been 
wrinkled and "tumbled" appear ex- 
actly like new, sponge it on the sur- 
face with a weak solution of gum 
arable or white glue, and iron it on 
the wrong side. 

To Renovate Silks.— Sponge faded 
silks with warm water and soap, then 
rub them with a dry cloth on a flat 
board; afterwards iron them on the 
inside with a smoothing iron. Old 
black silks may be improved by spong- 
ing with spirits ; in this case, the iron- 
ing may be done on the right side, thin 
paper being spread over to prevent 
glazing. 



CARE OF CLOTHING. 



289 



Black Silk Reviver. — Boil log- 
wood in water for half an hour ; then 
simmer the silk half an hour; take it 
out, and put into the dye a little blue 
vitriol, or green copperas ; cool it, and 
simmer the silk for half an hour. Or, 
boil a handful of fig-leaves in two 
quarts of water until it is reduced to 
one pint ; squeeze the leaves, and bot- 
tle the liquor for use. When wanted, 
sponge the silk with this preparation. 

Restoring Color to Silk. — When 
the color has been taken from silk by 
acids, it may be restored by applying 
to the spot a little hartshorn, or sal 
volatile. 

Preserving the Color of Dresses. 
— The colors of merinos, mousseline- 
de-laines, ginghams, chintzes, printed 
lawns, etc., may be preserved by using 
water that is only milk-warm ; making 
a lather with white soap, before you 
put in the dress, instead of rubbing it 
on the material ; and stirring into a 
first and second tub of water a large 
tablespoonful of ox-gall. The gall can 
be obtained from the butcher, and a 
bottle of it should always be kept 
in every house. No colored articles 
should be allowed to remain long in 
the water. They must be washed fast, 
and then rinsed through two cold 
waters. Into each rinsing water stir 
a teaspoonful of vinegar, which will 
help to brighten the colors ; and after 
rinsing, hang them out immediately. 
When ironing dry (or still a little 
damp), bring them in; have irons 
ready heated, and iron them at once, 
&8 it injures the colors to allow them 
to remain damp too long, or to sprinkle 
and roll them up in a cover for iron- 
ing next day. If they cannot be 
conveniently ironed immediately, let 
them hang till they are quite dry, and 
then damp and fold them on the fol- 
loiving day, a quarter of an hour before 
ironing. The best way is not to do 
colored dresses on the day of the gen- 
eral wash, but to give them a morning 
by themselves. They should only be 
undertaken in clear bright weather. 
If allowed to freeze, the colors will be 
irreparably injured. We need scarcely 
19 



say that no colored articles should ever 
be boiled or scalded. If you get from 
a shop a slip for testing the durability 
of colors, give it a fair trial by wash- 
ing it as above; afterwards pinning it 
to the edge of a towel, and hanging it 
to dry. Some colors (especially pinks 
and light greens), though they may 
stand perfectly well in washing, will 
change as soon as a warm iron is ap- 
plied to them ; the pink turning pur- 
plish, and the green bluish. No col- 
ored article should be smoothed with a 
hot iron. 

To Remove Water Stains from 
Black Crape. — When a drop of water 
falls on a black crape veil or collar, it 
leaves a conspicuous white mark. To 
obliterate this, spread the crape on a 
table (laying on it a large book or a 
paper-weight to keep it steady), and 
place underneath the stain a piece of 
old black silk ; with a large camel-hair 
brush dipped in common ink go over 
the stain, and then wipe off the ink 
with a small piece of old soft silk. It 
will dry immediately, and the white 
mark will be seen no more. 

To Remove Stains from Mourning 
Dresses. — Boil a handful of fig-leaves 
in two quarts of water until reduced 
to a pint. Bombazines, crape, cloth, 
etc., need only be rubbed with a sponge 
dipped in this liquor, and the effect 
will be instantly produced. 

WAX may be taken out of cloth by 
holding a red-hot iron within an inch 
or two of the marks, and afterwards 
rubbing them with a soft clean rag. 

When Velvet gets Flushed from 
pressure, hold the parts over a basin of 
hot water, with the lining of the article 
next to the water ; the pile will 
soon raise, and assume its original 
beauty. 

Worsted and Lambs'-wool Stock- 
ings should never be mended with 
worsted or lambs'-wool, because the 
latter being new, it shrinks more than 
the stockings, and draws them up till 
the toes become short and narrow, 
and the heels have no shape left. 

AU Flannels should be soaked 
before they are made up, first in cold, 



290 



you ask! — I'll tell! 



then in hot water, in order to shrink 
them. 
To Clean Black Cloth Clothes.— 

Clean the garments well, then boil four 
ounces of logwood in a boiler or copper 
containing two or three gallons of 
water for half an hour ; dip the clothes 
in warm water, and squeeze dry, then 
put them into the copper and boil for 
half an hour. Take thera out, and 
add three drams of sulphate of iron ; 
boil for half an hour, then take them 
out, and hang them up for an hour or 
two ; take them down, rinse them thrice 
in cold water, dry well, and rub with a 
soft brush which has had a few drops 
of olive oil applied to its surface. If 
the clothes are threadbare about the 
elbows, cuffs, etc., raise the nap with a 
teasel or half-worn hatters' card, filled 
with flocks, and when sufficiently raised, 
lay the nap the right way with a hard 
brush. We have seen old coats come 
out with a wonderful dash of respecta- 
bility after this operation. 

Liquid for Preserving Furs from 
Moths. — Warm water, one pint ; cor- 
rosive sublimate, twelve grains. If 
washed with this, and afterwards dried, 
furs are safe from moth. Care should 
be taken to label the liquid — Poison. 

To Clean Furs. — Strip the fur 
articles of their stuffing and binding, 
and lay them as nearly as possible in a 
flat position. They must then be sub- 
jected to a very brisk brushing with a 
stiff clothes-brush ; after this, any 
moth-eaten parts must be cut out, and 
neatly replaced by new bits of fur to 
match. Sable, chinchilla, squirrel, fitch, 
etc., should be treated as follows : — 
Warm a quantity of new bran in a 
pan, taking care that it does not burn, 
to prevent which it must be actively 
stirred. When well warmed, rub it 
thoroughly into the fur with the hand. 
Repeat this two or three times : then 
shake the fur, and give it another sharp 
brushing until free from dust. White 
furs, ermine, etc., may be cleaned as 
follows : — Lay the fur on a table, and 
rub it well with bran made moist with 
warm water ; rub until quite dry, and 
afterwards with dry bran. The wet 



bran should be put on with flannel, 
and the dry with a piece of book 
muslin. The light furs, in addition to 
the above, should be well rubbed with 
magnesia, or a piece of book muslin, 
after the bran process. Furs are 
usually much improved by stretching, 
which may be managed as follows : To 
a pint of soft water add three ounces 
of salt, dissolve ; with this solution, 
sponge the inside of the skin (taking 
care not to wet the fur) until it 
becomes thoroughly saturated ; then 
lay it carefully on a board with the 
fur side downwards, in its natural 
position ; then stretch as much as 
it will bear, and to the required 
shape, and fasten with small tacks. 
The drying may be accelerated by 
placing the skin a little distance from 
the fire or stove. 

Cleansing Feathers of their Ani- 
mal Oil. — The following recipe gained 
a premium from the Society of Arts : — 
Take for every gallon of clean water 
one pound of quicklime, mix them well 
together, and when the undissolved 
lime is precipitated in fine powder, 
pour off" the clean lime-water for use. 
Put the feathers to be cleaned in an- 
other tub, and add to them a quantity 
of the clean lime-water, sufficient to 
cover them about three inches when 
well immersed and stirred about there- 
in. The feathers, when thoroughly 
moistened, will sink, and should re- 
main in the lime-water three or four 
days ; after which the foul liquor 
should be separated from them, by 
laying them in a sieve. The feathers 
should be afterwards well washed in 
clean water, and dried upon nets, the 
meshes of which may be about the 
fineness of cabbage nets. The feathers 
must be from time to time shaken on 
the nets, and as they get dry, will fall 
through the meshes, and are to be col- 
lected for use. The admission of air 
will be serviceable in drying. The 
process will be completed in three 
weeks ; and when thus prepared, the 
feathers will only require to be beaten 
to get rid of the dust. 

To Clean White Ostrich Feathers. 



CARE OF CLOTHING. 



291 



— Four ounces of white soap, cut small, 
dissolved in four pints of water, rather 
hot, in a large basin ; make the solu- 
tion into a lather by beating it with 
birch rods, or wires. Introduce the 
feathers, and rub well with the hands 
for five or six minutes. After this 
soaping, wash in clean water, as hot as 
the hand can bear. Shake until dry. 

Cleaning Straw Bonnets. —They 
may be washed with soap and water, 
rinsed in clear water, and dried in the 
air. Then wash them over with white 
of egg well beaten. Remove the wire 
before washing. Old straw bonnets 
may be picked to pieces, and put to- 
gether for children, the head parts 
being cut out. 

To Bleacli a Faded Dress. —Wash 
it well in hot suds, and boil it until 
the color seems to be gone, then wash, 
and rinse, and dry it in the sun ; if still 
not quite white, repeat the boiling. 

Bleaching Straw Bonnets, etc. — 
Wash them in pure water, scrubbing 
them with a brush. Then put them into 
a box in which has been set a saucer of 
burning sulphur. Cover them up, so 
that the fumes may bleach them. 

To Wash China Crape Scarfs, 
etc. — If the fabric be good, these 
articles of dress can be washed as fre- 
quently as may be required, and no 
diminution of their beauty will be 
discoverable, . even when the various 
shades of green have been employed 
among other colors in the patterns. 
In cleaning them, make a strong 
lather of boiling water. Suffer it to 
cool ; when cold, or nearly so, wash the 
scarf quickly and thoroughly, dip it 
immediately in cold hard water in 
which a little salt has been thrown (to 
preserve the colors), rinse, squeeze, 
and hang it out to dry in the open air. 
Pin it at its extreme edge to the line, 
so that it may not in any part be 
folded together. The more rapidly it 
dries, the clearer it will be. 

To Wash a White Lace Veil. — 
Put the veil into a strong lather of 
white soap and very clear water, and 
let it simmer slowly for a quarter of 
nn hour. Take it out and squeeze it 



well, but be sure not to rub it. Rinse 
it twice in cold water, the second time 
with a drop or two of liquid blue. 
Have ready some very clear weak 
gum arable water, or some thin 
starch, or rice water. Pass the veil 
through it, and clear it by clapping ; 
then stretch it out evenly, and pin it 
to dry on a linen cloth, making the 
edge as straight as possible, opening 
out all the scallops, and fastening each 
with pins. When dry, lay a piece of 
thin muslin smoothly over it, and iron 
it on the wrong side. 

Blond Lace may be revived by 
breathing upon it, and shaking and 
flapping it. The use of the iron turns 
the lace yellow. 

WASHING. — To save your linen 
and your labor, pour on half a 
pound of soda two quarts of boiling 
water, in an earthenware pan. Take 
half a pound of soap, shred fine. Put 
it into a saucepan with two quarts of 
cold water. Stand it on a fire till it 
boils, and when perfectly dissolved 
and boiling, add it to the former. 
Mix it well, and let it stand till cold, 
when it will have the appearance of a 
strong jelly. Let your linen be soaked 
in water, the seams and any other 
soiled part rubbed in the usual way, 
and remain till the following morn- 
ing. Get your copper ready, and add 
to the water about a pint-basin full ; 
when lukewarm put in your linen, and 
allow it to boil for twenty minutes. 
Rinse it in the usual way, and that is 
all which is necessary to get it clean, 
and to keep it in good color. The 
above recipe is invaluable to house- 
keepers. If you have not tried it, do 
so without delay. 

Whei^- Water is Hard, and will 
not readily unite with soap, it will 
always be proper to boil it before use, 
which will be found sufficiently effica- 
cious, if the hardness depends solely 
upon the impregnation of lime. Even 
exposure to the atmosphere will pro- 
duce this efiect in a great degree upon 
spring water so impregnated, leaving 
it much fitter for lavatory purposes. 
In both cases the water ought to be 



292 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



carefully poured off from the sedi- 
ment, as the neutralized lime, when 
freed from its extra quantity of car- 
bonic acid, falls to the bottom by its 
own gravity. To economize the use 
of soap, put any quantity of pearlash 
into a large jar, covered from the 
dust ; in a few days the alkali will be- 
come liquid, which must be diluted in 
double its quantity of soft water, with 
an equal quantity of new slacked lime. 
Boil it half an hour, frequently stir- 
ring it, adding as much more hot 
water, and drawing off the liquor, 
when the residuum may be boiled 
afresh, and drained, until it ceases to 
feel acrid to the tongue. 

Soap and labor may be saved 
by dissolving alum and chalk in bran 
water, in which the linen ought to be 
boiled, then well rinsed out, and ex- 
posed to the usual process of bleaching. 

Soap may be dispensed with, or 
nearly so, in the getting up of muslins 
and chintzes, which should always be 
treated agreeably to the Oriental man- 
ner ; that is, to wash them in plain 
water, and then boil them in congee, 
or rice water : after which they ought 
not to be submitted to the operation 
of the smoothing iron, but rubbed 
smooth with a polished stone. 

The Economy which must result 
from these processes renders their con- 
sideration important to every family, 
in addition to which, we must state 
that the improvements in philosophy 
extend to the laundry as well as to the 
wash-house. 

Gum Arabic Starch.— Procure two 
ounces of fine white gum arabic, and 
pound it to powder. Next put it into 
a pitcher, and pour on it a pint or 
more of boiling water, according to the 
degree of strength you desire, and then, 
having covered it, let it set all night. 
In the morning, pour it carefully from 
the dregs into a clean bottle, cork it, 
and keep it for use. A tablespoonful 
of gum water stirred into a pint of 
starch that has been made in the usual 
manner will give to lawns (either white 
or printed) a look of newness to which 
nothing else can restore them after 



washing. It is also good (much di- 
luted) for thin white muslin and bob- 
biuet. 

Mildew out of Linen. — Rub the 
linen well with soap ; then scrape some 
fine chalk, and rub it also on the linen. 
Lay it on the grass. As it dries, wet 
it a little, and the mildew will come 
out with a second application. 

To render Linen, etc., Incombusti- 
ble. — All linen, cotton, muslins, etc., 
etc., when dipped in a solution of 
tungstate of soda or common alum, 
will become incombustible. 

Sweet Bags for Linen.— These may 
be composed of any mixtures of the 
following articles: — Flowers, dried and 
pounded ; powdered cloves, mace, nut- 
meg, cinnamon ; leaves — dried and 
pounded — of mint, palm, dragon- 
wort, southernwood, ground-ivy, lau- 
rel, hyssop, sweet marjoram, origanum, 
rosemary ; woods, such as cassia, juni- 
per, rhodium, sandal-wood, and rose- 
wood ; roots of angelica, zedoary, orris ; 
all the fragrant balsams — ambergris, 
musk, and civet. These latter should 
be carefully used on linen. 

Laundry Gloss. — The beautiful 
finish of linen got up for sale is im- 
parted by pressure and friction upon 
curved surfaces of hard pasteboard. 
Try a true cylinder, or convex table, 
veneered with the best quality of press- 
board, such as printers use, instead of 
the usual domestic " ironing sheet." 

Gall Soap, for the washing of fine 
silken cloths and ribbons, is prepared 
in the following manner : In a vessel 
of copper one pound of cocoa-nut oil is 
heated to 60° Fahr., whereupon half a 
pound of caustic soda is added with 
constant stirring. In another vessel, 
half a pound of white Venetian tur- 
pentine is heated, and when quite hot, 
stirred into the copper kettle. This 
kettle is then covered and left for four 
hours, being gently heated, after 
which the fire is increased until the 
contents are perfectly clear, whereupon 
one pound of ox-gall is added. After 
this, enough good, perfectly dry castile 
soap is stirred into the mixture to 
cause the whole to yield but little 



CURING MEAT, ETC. 



293 



under the pressure of the finger ; for 
which purpose, from one to two pounds 
of soap are required for the above 
quantity. After cooling, the soap is 
cut into pieces. It is excellent, and 
will not injure the finest colors. 

The Best Soap to clean very dirty 
clothes, paint, or in fact almost any- 
thing, and to save labor, is made as 
follows : — Cut two pounds of bar-soap 
into strips, put it into a wash-boiler 
with five gallons of water, five pounds 
Df sal soda, quarter of a pound of car- 
oonate of ammonia, one ounce of sal 
ammoniac, and a quarter of an ounce of 
camphor ; let it soak in the cold water 
two or three hours, then set it on the 
fire and heat it slowly, let it boil until 
dissolved, stirring it well : be careful 
it does not boil over ; it will require 
about two hours after putting on the 
fire. If you once make this soap you 
will never be without it. The inventor of 
it, from lohom we bought the recipe, real- 
ized a large amount from its sale. 

Ironing Without Heat. — Much 
time and trouble may be saved by 
" ironing " without heat and flat-irons. 
When rinsing the clothes, fold coarse 
sheets, towels, and tablecloths in the 
shape they are wanted, and pass them 
through the wringer as tight as pos- 
sible. Unfold and hang to dry where 
the wind does not blow very hard. 
They will need little or no ironing. 
The tablecloths should be dipped in 
old, sweet, skimmed milk ; this gives 
them a lustre, and they need no starch. 

To Keep Meat. — Meat is much 
better for family use when at least one 
week old in cold weather. The Eng- 
lish method for keeping meat for some 
time has great merit. Experts say, 
hang up quarter of meat with the cut 
end up, being the reverse of the usual 
way, by the leg, and the juice will re- 
main in the meat, and not run to the 
cut and dry up by evaporation. It 
may be kept several days in the height 
of summer, sweet and good, by lightly 
covering it with bran, and hanging it 
in some high or windy room, or in a 
passage where there is a current of air. 

Dry Salting. — This is the English 



way of curing meat instead of pick- 
ling it. All kinds of meat are cured 
in this way, and may be eaten green 
or undried, or may be dried or smoked. 
Trim the hams from all loose flesh 
and fat, and make them shapely. Re- 
move the ribs from the sides, and cuo 
them into pieces of about twenty 
pounds each. Procure a solid bench 
of oak plank on which to pack the 
meat. Ta-ke coarse salt, and mix with 
each pound of it a tablespoonful of 
pulverized saltpetre. With this rub 
the meat on both sides, leaving con- 
siderable of the mixture loose on the 
flesh side. Pile the meat in heaps, aa 
the pieces are rubbed, on the bench, 
with the flesh side upward. Allow the 
moisture to drain away. Every second 
day rub the meat with fresh salt, and 
place that which was previously at 
the top of the pile at the bottom. 
This should be continued for two 
weeks, when the meat is to be re- 
moved to the smoke-house, or hung 
up to dry if it is not to be smoked. It 
should be smoked with corn-cobs or 
hickory brush for a few days, when, 
after being well dried, it may be 
packed in bran in boxes or barrels, or 
in perfectly dry wood ashes, in which 
flies cannot injure it; or it may be 
sewn up in cotton cloth and covered 
with two coats of thick lime-wash. 

Curing of Hams and Bacon. — It 
is simply to use the same quantity of 
common soda as saltpetre — one ounce 
and a half of each to the fourteen 
pounds of ham or bacon, using the 
usual quantity of salt. The soda pre- 
vents that harshness in the lean of the 
baoon which is so often found, and 
keeps it quite mellow all through, be- 
sides being a preventative of rust 
This recipe has been very extensively 
tried among my acquaintance for tht 
last fifteen years, and invariably ap- 
proved. 

To Pickle Meat. — To 1 gallon of 
water, take 1^ pounds of salt, ^ pound 
of sugar, ^ ounce of saltpetre, ^ ounce 
of potash, and ^ of a pint of molasses. 

In this ratio the pickle can be in- 
creased to any quantity desired. L^l 



294 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



these be boiled together until all the 
dirt from the sugar rises to the top and 
is skimmed off. Then throw it into a 
tub to cool, and when cold, pour it over 
your beef or pork, to remain the usual 
time, say two to three weeks. The 
meat must be well covered with pickle, 
and should not be put down for at 
least two days after killing, during 
which time it should be slightly 
sprinkled with powdered saltpetre, 
which removes all the surface-blood, 
etc., leaving the meat fresh and clean. 
Some omit boiling the pickle, and find 
it to answer well, though the operation 
of boiling purifies the pickle by throw- 
ing ofi" the dirt always to be found in 
salt and sugar. 

Beef Extra. — The pickle for this 
is made of the same ingredients as the 
last, but used as below : — When the 
water is ready to receive the rest of 
the material, pour in the saltpetre 
only, and when dissolved and the water 
boiling, dip your beef, piece by piece, 
into the boiling saltpetre water, hold- 
ing it for a few seconds only in the hot 
bath. When the beef has all been 
thus immersed and becomes quite cool, 
pack it in the cask where it is to re- 
main. Then proceed with your pickle 
as at first directed, and when perfectly 
cold, pour it upon the meat, which 
should be kept down by a cover and 
stone. 

The immersing of the beef in hot 
saltpetre water contracts the surface 
by closing the pores, and prevents the 
juices of the meat from going out into 
the pickle. The saltpetre absorbed 
by the contracted or cooked surfaces 
■will modify the salt that passes through 
it, the whole producing the most per- 
fect result. 

Beef cured in this manner will pre- 
serve its color, and cut almost as juicy 
and inviting as a fresh roast. It is as 
unlike the hard, blue, briny, knotted 
substance sold at markets, and fre- 
quently cured at home, miscalled 
'' corned beef," as a sirloin differs from 
a steak cut three inches back of the 
horns. 

For Caring Meats in the Hottest 



Climate, and which has been prac- 
tised in most of the Southern States 
not less than fifteen or twenty years 
at any rate. The plan is to dig a hole 
in the earth, from four to six feet deep, 
and large enough for the amount of 
meat you have to cure ; lay boards on 
the bottom, and on this pack your 
meat in salt — the usual quantity — 
and then cover the hole with boards 
and earth, keeping it in this condition 
till the meat is sufficiently salted. By 
this mode of preserving, no person 
need lose a pound of meat in th^ 
warmest climate. 

To Prevent Skippers in Hams. — 
It is simply to keep your smoke-house 
dark, and the moth that deposits the 
egg will never enter it. There are 
other ways of doing the same thing, 
but they injure the flavor of the meat. 
Green hickory wood is the best to use. 
This is important, as the flavor of bacon 
is often utterly destroyed by smoking 
it with improper wood. 

How to Cut Hard Dried Beef.— 
Take a sharp plane, not too rankly set, 
invert it, and, taking the beef firmly 
in the hand, push it across the plane, 
and the beef, very nicely shaven, will 
drop through the opening in the plane 
on to a towel below. It must be very 
dry to cut thus, but when dry, it is 
much more expeditiously and nicely 
done than with a knife. 

Keeping Eggs for Winter.— A lady 
says : — " In August I generally com- 
mence saving eggs, and am very care- 
ful to save only good and fresh ones. 
I take boxes which hold about one 
thousand two hundred, put on the 
bottom a layer of oats, and set my eggs 
all point downwards, so that not one 
touches the other, until the layer is. 
full ; then cover with oats, and make 
another layer, and so on until the box 
is full, and then cover and set in a cool, 
dry place, where it does not freeze, 
until used. I have followed this way 
for the last twenty years, and cannot 
say that I ever lost more than one or 
two out of fifty, and then generally 
found that it was knocked or put down 
unsound. I use small boxes, so that I 



TO 1»RESEIIVE EGGS, ETC. 



295 



can use first the eggs which I -put down 
first. I have never thought of chang- 
ing my way, although I have read so 
many ways to do it, — for instance, in 
ashes, in fat, in lime, in lime-water, 
and even varnishing them, — because 
my way seemed to me the simplest and 
cleanest ; and I am just as sure to have 
good eggs next February and March, 
which I lay in now, as I can have good 
eggs now. There is no danger of hav- 
ing any musty taste to the eggs if you 
keep them in a dry place, and are care- 
ful to use dry oats." 

To Preserve Eggs. — It has been 
long known to housewives, that the 
great secret of preserving eggs fresh is 
to place the small end downwards, and 
keep it in that position — other requi- 
sites not being neglected, such as to 
have the eggs perfectly fresh when de- 
posited for keeping, not allowing them 
to become wet, keeping them cool in 
warm weather, and avoiding freezing 
in winter. Take an inch board of con- 
venient size, say a foot wide, and two 
and a half feet long, and bore it full 
of holes, each about an inch and a 
half in diameter. A board of this 
size may have five dozen holes bored 
in it, for as many eggs. Then nail 
strips of thin board, two inches wide, 
round the edges to serve as a ledge. 
Boards such as this may now be made 
to constitute the shelves of a cupboard 
in a cool cellar. The only precaution 
necessary is to place the eggs as fast as 
they are laid in these holes, with the 
small end downwards, and they will 
keep for months perfectly fresh. The 
great advantage of this plan is the 
perfect ease with which the fresh eggs 
are packed away, and again obtained 
when wanted. A carpenter would 
make such a board for a trifling 
charge. 

It should be borne in mind, that 
violent shaking destroys the vitality of 
eggs. If eggs are subjected to the vi- 
bration or shaking of a railway car for 
a considerable distance, the vitality 
will be destroyed to the extent that 
at least half of them would not pro- 
duce a chicken if placed under a good 



hen. Or if eggs are subjected to a 
railway journey, or other shaking pro- 
cess, before preserving, one-half of 
them will be worthless. This will ex- 
plain to some of our friends why they 
get no chickens from eggs of a fancy 
breed procured from a distance. 

To Keep Milk Sweet.— A teaspoon- 
ful of fine salt or of horse-radish, in a 
pan of milk, will keep it sweet for sev- 
eral days. Milk can be kept a year or 
more as sweet as when taken from the 
cow by the following method : — Pro- 
cure bottles, which must be perfectly 
clean, sweet, and dry. Draw the milk 
from the cow into the bottles, and, as 
they are filled, immediately cork them 
well, and fasten the cork with packed 
thread or wire. Then spread a little 
straw in the bottom of a boiler, on 
which place the bottles, with straw 
between them, until the boiler con- 
tains a sufficient quantity. Fill it up 
with cold water, heat the water, and as 
soon as it begins to boil, draw the 
fire, and let the whole gradually cool. 
When quite cold, take out the bottles 
and pack them in sawdust in hampers, 
and stow them away in the coolest 
part of the house. 

To Keep Honey. — Heat the straia^d 
honey to the boiling-point, and 8t<»e 
it in covered jars, where it will keep 
without candying. To prevent danger 
of burning, set the vessel in which it 
is to be heated into another containing 
water. 

Eresh Tomatoes till Winter. — If 
late in the season, just before frosts, 
the vigorous late-bearing tomato vine 
be pulled, and hung up in a mod- 
erately dry cellar, the fruit will gradu- 
ally mature, and thus furnish the table 
with fine luscious tomatoes from time 
to time, even into the winter season. 
So say they who have tried it. 

Rev. Sidney Smith, in hints on 
household management, inquires : — 
Have you ever observed what a dislike 
servants have to anything cheap ? They 
hate saving their master's money. I 
tried this experiment with great suc- 
cess the other day. Finding we con- 
sumed a vast deal of soap, I sat down 



296 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



in my thinking chair, and took the 
soap question into consideration, and 
I found reason to suspect we were 
using a very expensive article where 
a much cheaper one would serve the 
purpose better. I ordered half a dozen 
pounds of both sorts, but took the pre- 
caution of changing the papers on 
which the prices were marked before 
giving them into the hands of Betty. 
" Well, Betty, which soap do you find 
washes best?" "Oh, please sir, the 
dearest, in the blue paper; it makes a 
lather as well again as the other." 
" Well, Betty, you shall always have it 
then ; " and thus the unsuspecting 
Betty saved me some pounds a year, 
and washed the clothes better. 

An ever-Dirty Hearth, and a grate 
always choked with cinders and ashes, 
are infallible evidences of bad house- 
keeping. 

Economy. — If you have a strip of 
land, do not throw away soapsuds. 
Both ashes and soapsuds are good 
manure for bushes and young plants. 

Do NOT let coffee and tea stand in tin. 

Scald your wooden-ware often, and 
keep your tin-ware dry. 

Preserve the backs of old letters to 
write upon. 

See that nothing is thrown 
AWAY which might have served to 
nourish your own family or a poorer 
one. 

As FAR AS POSSIBLE, havc pleces 
of bread eaten up before they become 
hard ; spread those that are not eaten, 
and let them dry, to be pounded for 
puddings, or soaked for brewis. 

Brewis is made of crusts and dry 

{)ieces of bread, soaked a good while in 
lot milk, mashed up, and eaten with 
salt. Above all, do not let crusts ac- 
cumulate in such quantities that they 
cannot be used. With proper care, 
there is no need of losing a particle 
of bread. 

All the Mending in the house 
should be done once a week, if possible. 
Never put out Sewing. If it be 
not possible to do it in your own fam- 
ily, hire some one into the house, and 
work with theui. 



A Warming-pan full of coals, or a 
shovel of coals, held over varnished 
furniture, will take out white spots. 
Care should be taken not to hold the 
clothes near enough to scorch : and the 
place should be rubbed with a flannel 
while warm. 

Sal Volatile or hartshorn will re- 
store colors taken out by acid. It may 
be dropped upon any garment without 
doing harm. 

New Iron should be very gradually 
heated at first. After it has become 
inured to the heat, it is not so likely to 
crack. 

Clean a Brass Kettle, before 
using it for cooking, with salt and 
vinegar. 

The OFTfiNER Carpets are shaken 
the longer they wear; the dirt that 
collects under them grinds out the 
threads. 

Linen Rags should be carefully 
saved, for they are extremely useful in 
sickness. If they have become dirty 
and worn by cleaning silver, etc., 
wash them and scrape them into lint. 

If you are troubled to get 
Soft Water for Washing, fill a 
tub or barrel half fiill of wood-ashes, 
and fill it up with water, so that you 
may have lye whenever you want it. 
A gallon of strong lye, put into a 
great kettle of hard water, will make 
it as soft as rain water. Some people 
use pearlash, or potash ; but this costs 
something, and is very apt to injure 
the texture of the cloth. 

Do not let Knives be dropped 
into hot dish-water. It is a good plan 
to have a large tinpot to wash them 
in, just high enough to wash the 
blades without wetting the handles. 

It is better to accomplish per- 
fectly a very small amount of work, 
than to half do ten times as much. 

Charcoal Powder will be found 
a very good thing to give knives a 
first-rate polish. 

A Bonnet and Trimmings may be 
worn a much longer time, if the dust 
be brushed well off after walking. 

Much knowledge may be obtained 
by the good housewife observing hoM 



TO FORECAST WEATHER. 



297 



things are managed in well-regulated 
families. 

The Shanks of Mutton make a 
good stock for nearly any kind of 
gravy, and they are very cheap — a 
dozen is enough to make a quart of de- 
licious soup. 

Regularity in the payment of ac- 
counts is essential to housekeeping. 
All tradesmen's bills should be paid 
weekly, for then any errors can be de- 
tected while the transactions are fresh 
in the memory. 

" Wilful Waste makes Woful 
Want." — Do not cook a fresh joint 
while any of the last remains uneaten 
— hash it up, and with gravy and a 
little management, eke out another 
day's dinner. 

Signs of the Weather. — Dew. — 
If the dew lies plentifully on the grass 
after a fair day, it is a sign of another 
fair day. If not, and there is no wind, 
rain must follow. A red evening por- 
tends fine weather ; but if it spread 
too far upward from the horizon in 
the evening, and especially morning, 
it foretells wind or rain, or both. When 
the sky, in rainy weather, is tinged 
with sea-green, the rain will increase; 
if with deep blue, it will be showery. 

Clouds. — Previous to much rain 
falling, the clouds grow bigger, and 
increase very fast, especially before 
thunder. When the clouds are formed 
like fleeces, but dense in the middle 
and bright toward the edges, with the 
sky bright, they are signs of a frost, 
with hail, snow, or rain. If clouds 
form high in air, in thin white trains 
like locks of wool, they portend wind, 
and probably rain. When a general 
cloudiness covers the sky, and small 
black fragments of clouds fly under- 
neath, they are a sure sign of rain, and 
probably it will be lasting. Two cur- 
rents of clouds always portend rain, 
and, in summer, thunder. 

Heavenly Bodies. — A haziness 
in the air. which fades the sun's light, 
tind makes the orb appear whitish, or 
ill-defined — or at night, if the moon 
and stars grow dim, and a ring en- 
circles the former, rain will follow. If 



the sun's rays appear like Moses' horns 
— if white at setting, or shorn of his 
rays, or if he goes down into a bank 
of clouds in the horizon, bad weather 
is to be expected. If the rhoou looks 
pale and dim, we expect rain ; if red, 
wind; and if of her natural color, with 
a clear sky, fair weather. If the moon 
is rainy throughout, it will clear at the 
change, and, perhaps, the rain return 
a few days after. If fair throughout, 
and rain at the change, the fair weather 
will probably return on the fourth or 
fifth day. 

Weather Precautions. — If the 
weather appears doubtful, always take 
the precaution of having an umbrella 
when you go out, particularly in going 
to church. You thereby avoid incur- 
ring one of three disagreeables : in the 
first place, the chance of getting wet — 
or encroaching under a friend's um- 
brella — or being under the necessity 
of borrowing one, consequently involv- 
ing the trouble of returning it, and 
possibly (as is the case nine times out 
of ten) inconveniencing your friend 
by neglecting to do so. Those who 
disdain the use of umbrellas, generally 
appear with shabby hats, tumbled 
bonnet ribbons, wrinkled silk dresses, 
etc., etc., the consequence of frequent 
exposure to unexpected showers, to 
say nothing of colds taken, no one can 
tell how. 

Leech Barometer. — Take an eight 
ounce phial, and put in it three gills 
of water, and place in it a healthy 
leech, changing the water in summer 
once a week, and in winter once in a 
fortnight, and it will most accurately 
prognosticate the weather. If the 
weather is to be fine, the leech lies 
motionless at the bottom of the glass, 
and coiled together in a spiral form ; 
if rain may be expected, it will creep 
up to the top of its lodgings, and re- 
main there till the weather is settled ; 
if we are to have wind, it will move 
through its habitation with amazing 
swiftness, and seldom goes to rest til] 
it begins to blow hard ; if a remarka- 
ble storm of thunder and rain is to 
succeed, it will lodge for some days 



298 



YOU A S K I — I ' I. L T E I. L ! 



before almost continually out of the 
water, and discover great uneasiness 
in violent throes and convulsive-like 
motions; in frost, as in clear summer- 
like weather, it lies constantly at the 
bottom ; and in snow, as in rainy 
weather, it pitches its dwelling in the 
very mouth of the phial. The top 
should be covered over with a piece 
of muslin. 

The Chemical Barometer. — Take 
a long narrow bottle, such as an old- 
fashioned Eau-de-Cologne bottle, and 
put into it two and a half drams of 
camphor, and eleven drams of spirit 
of wine; when the camphor is dis- 
solved, which it will readily do by 
slight agitation, add the following 
mixture : — Take water, nine drams ; 
nitrate of potash (saltpetre), thirty- 
eight grains; and muriate of am- 
monia (sal ammoniac), thirty-eight 
grains. Dissolve these salts in the 
water prior to mixing with the 
camphorated spirit ; then shake the 
whole well together. Cork the bottle 
well, and wax the top, but afterwards 
make a very small aperture in the 
cork with a red-hot needle. The bot- 
tle may then be hung up, or placed in 
any stationary position. By observing 
th*>. different appearances which the 
materials assume, as the weather 
changes, it becomes an excellent prog- 
nosticator of a coming storm, or of a 
sunny sky. 

Cheap Ice Pitcher. — The following 
is a simple method of keeping ice water 
for a long time in a common pitcher 
or jug : — Place between two sheets of 
paper (newspaper vvill answer, thick 
brown is better), a layer of cotton bat- 
ting about half an inch in thickness, 
fasten the ends of paper and batting 
together, forming a circle, then sew or 
paste a crown over one end, making a 
box the shape of a stove ■ pipe hat 
minus the rim. Place this over an or- 
dinary pitcher filled with ic«> water, 
making it deep enough to rest on the 
table, so as to exclude the air, and the 
reader will be a.stonished at the length 
of time his ice will keep and the water 
remain cold after the ice is melted. 



Hints for Husbands.— When once 
a man has established a home his 
most important duties have fairly 
begun. The errors of youth may be 
overlooked ; want of purpose, and 
even of honor, in his earlier days may 
be forgotten. But from the moment 
of his marriage he begins to vrite his 
indelible history ; not by pen and ink, 
but by actions — by which he must ever 
afterwards be reported and judged. 
His conduct at home; his solicitude 
for his family; the training of his 
children ; his devotion to his wife; his 
regard for the great interests of eter- 
nity : these are the tests by which his 
worth will ever afterwards be esti- 
mated by all who think or care about 
him. These will determine his posi- 
tion while living, and influence his 
memory when dead. He uses well or 
ill the brief space allotted to him, out 
of all eternity, to build up a fame 
founded upon the most solid of all 
foundations — private worth. 

Custom entitles you to be considered 
the " lord and master " over your 
household. But don't assume the 
master and sink the lord. Eemember 
that noble generosity, forbearance, 
amiability, and integrity, are among 
the more lordly attributes of man. As 
a husband, therefore, exhibit the true 
nobility of man, and seek to govern 
your own household by the display 
of high moral excellence. A domi- 
neering spirit — a fault-finding petu- 
lance — impatience of trifling delays — 
and the exhibition of unworthy pas- 
sions at the slightest provocation, can 
add no laurel to your own " lordly " 
brow, impart no sweetness to home, 
and call forth no respect from those 
by whom you may be surrounded. It 
is one thing to be a master — another 
thing to be a man. The latter should 
be the husband's aspiration ; for he 
who cannot govern himself is ill- 
qualified to govern another. 

If your wife complains that young 
ladies " now-a-days " are very forward, 
don't accuse her of jealousy. A little 
concern on her part only proves her 
love for you, and you may enjoy youi 



HUSBAND AXD WIFE. 



299 



triumph without saying a word. Don't 
evince your weakness either, by com- 
plaining of every trifling neglect. 
What though her chair is not set so 
close to yours as it used to be, or 
though her knitting and crochet seem 
to absorb too large a share of her 
attention ; depend upon it, that as her 
eyes watch the intertwinings of the 
threads, and the manoeuvres of the 
needles as they dance in compliance 
to her delicate fingers, she is thinking 
of courting days, love-letters, smiles, 
tears, suspicions, and reconciliations, 
by which your two hearts became 
entwined together in the network of 
love, whose meshes you can neither 
of you unravel nor escape. 

You can hardly imagine how refresh- 
ing it is to occasionally call up the re- 
collection of your courting days. How 
tediously the hours rolled away prior 
to the appointed time of meeting ; how 
swiftly they seemed to fly when you 
had met ; how fond was the first greet- 
ing; how tender the last embrace; 
how fervent were your vows ; how 
vivid your dreams of future happiness, 
when, returning to your home, you 
felt yourself secure in the confessed 
love of the object of your warm affec- 
tions ! Is your dream realized ? — are 
you as happy as you expected ? Con- 
sider whether, as a husband, you are 
as fervent and constant as you were 
when a lover. Remember that the 
wife's claims to your unremitting re- 
gard, great before marriage, are now 
exalted to a much higher degree. She 
has left the world for you — the home 
of her childhood, the fireside of her 
parents, their watchful care and sweet 
intercourse have all been yielded up for 
you. Look, then, most jealously upon 
all that may tend to attract you from 
home, and to weaken that union upon 
which your temporal happiness mainly 
-" depends ; and believe that in the 
solemn relationship of husband is to 
be found one of the best guarantees for 
man's honor and happiness. 

Summer is the season of love! 
Hapny birds mate, and sing among the 
tree» • fishes dart athwart the running 



streams, and leap from their element 
in resistless ecstasy ; cattle group in 
peaceful nooks, by cooling streams ; 
even the flowers seem to love, as they 
twine their tender arms around each 
other, and throw their wild tresses 
about in beautiful profusion ; the 
happy swain sits with his loved and 
loving mistress beneath the sheltering 
oak, whose arms spread out, as if to 
shield and sanctify their pure attach- 
ment. What shall the husband do 
now, when earth and heaven seem to 
meet in happy union ? Must he still 
pore over the calculations of the 
counting-house, or ceaselessly pursue 
the toils of the work-room — sparing no 
moment to taste the joys which heaven 
measures out so liberally? No I 
" Come, dear wife, let us once more 
breathe the fresh air of heaven, and 
look upon the beauties of earth. The 
summers are few we may dwell to- 
gether; we will not give them all to 
Mammon. Again let our hearts glow 
with emotions of renewed love — our 
feet shall again tread the green sward, 
and the music of the rustling trees 
shall mingle in our whisperings of 
love 1 " 

If you meet losses, and times are 
hard, tell your wife just how you stand. 
Show her your balance-sheet. Let her 
look over the items. You think it 
will hurt her feelings. No, it won't do 
any such thing ! She has been taught 
to believe that money was with you, 
just as little boys think it is with their 
fathers — terribly hard to be reached, 
yet inexhaustible. She has had her 
suspicions already. She has guessed 
you were not so prosperous as you 
talked. But you had so befogged your 
money affairs that she, poor thing, 
knows nothing about them. Tell it 
right out to her, that you are living 
beyond your income. Take her into 
partnership, and we '11 warrant you '11 
never regret it. 

A Wife's Power. — The power of a 
wife for good or evil is irresistible. 
Home must be the seat of happiness, 
or it must be forever unknown. A 
good wife is to a man wisdom, and 



300 



YOU ASK I — I'll tell! 



courage, and strength, and endurance. 
A bad wife is confusion, weakness, dis- 
comfiture, and despair. No condition 
is hopeless where the wife possesses 
firmness, decision, and economy. There 
is no outward prosperity which can 
counteract indolence, extravagance, 
and folly at home. No spirit can 
long endure bad domestic influence. 
Man is strong, but his heart is not 
adamant. He delights in enterprise 
and action ; but to sustain him he 
needs a tranquil mind and a whole 
heart. He needs his moral force in 
the conflicts of the world. To recover 
his equanimity and composure, home 
must be to him a place of repose, of 

E(?ace, of cheerfulness, of comfort ; and 
ii soul renews its strength again, and 
goes forth with fresh vigor to en- 
counter the labor and troubles of life. 
But if at home he find no rest, and is 
there met with bad temper, sullenness, 
or gloom, or is assailed by discontent 
or complaint, hope vanishes, and he 
sinks into despair. 

Hints for Wives. — If your husband 
occasionally looks a little troubled 
when he comes home, do not say to 
him, with an alarmed countenance, 
"What ails you, my dear?" Don't 
bother him ; he will tell you of his own 
accord, if need be. Don't rattle a 
hailstorm of fun about his ears either. 
Be observant and quiet. Don't sup- 
pose, whenever he is silent and 
thoughtful, that you are of course the 
cause. Let him alone until he is in- 
clined to talk ; take up your book or 
your needlework (pleasantly, cheer- 
fully ; no pouting — no sullenness) and 
wait until he is inclined to be sociable. 
Don't let him ever find a shirt-button 
missing — a shirt-button being ofi" a 
collar or wristband has frequently pro- 
duced the first hurricane in married 
life. Men's shirt-collars never fit ex- 
actly; see that your husband's are made 
as well as possible, and then, if he does 
fret a little about them, never mind it; 
men have a prescriptive right to fret 
about shirt-collars. 

Never complain that your husband 
pores too much over the newspaper, to 



the exclusion of that pleasing converse 
which you formerly enjoyed with him. 
Don't hide the paper ; don't give it to 
the children to tear; don't be sulky 
when the boy leaves it at the door, but 
take it in pleasantly, and lay it down 
before your spouse. Think what man 
would be without a newspaper. Treat 
it as if a great agent in the work of 
civilization, — which it assuredly is, — 
and think how much good newspapers 
have done by exposing bad husbands 
and bad wives, by giving their errors 
to the eye of the public. But manage 
you in this way : when your hus- 
band is absent, instead of gossiping 
with neighbors, or looking into store- 
windows, sit down quietly, and look 
over that paper ; run your eye over its 
home and foreign news ; glance rap- 
idly at the accidents and casualties ; 
carefully scan the leading articles ; and 
at tea-time, when your husband again 
takes up the paper, say, " My dear, 
what an awful state of things there 
seems to be in Europe ! " or, " What a 
terrible calamity at Santiago ! " or 
" Trade appears to be flourishing in 
the north ; " and depend upon it, down 
will go the paper. If he has not read 
the information, he will hear it all 
from your lips ; and when you have 
done, he will ask, " Did you, my dear, 
read Banting's Letter on Corpulence ? " 
And whether you did or not, you will 
gradually get into as cosy a chat as you 
ever enjoyed ; and you will soon dis- 
cover that, rightly used, the news- 
paper is the wife's real friend, for it 
keeps the husband at home, and sup- 
plies capital topics for everyday table- 
talk. 

Don't imagine, when you have ob- 
tained a husband, that your attention 
to personal neatness and deportment 
may be relaxed. Then, in reality, is 
the time for you to exhibit superior 
taste and excellence in the cultivation 
of your dress, and the becoming ele- 
gance of your appearance. If it re- 
quired some little care to foster the 
admiration of a lover, how much more 
is requisite to keep yourself lovely in 
the eyes of him to whom there is now 



HTXTS FOR WIVES. 



301 



no privacy or disguise — your hourly 
companion ! And if it was due to your 
lover that you should always present 
to him, who proposed to wed and 
cherish you, a neat and lady - like 
aspect, how much more is he- entitled 
to a similar mark of respect who has 
kept his promise with honorable fidelity, 
and linked all his hopes of future hap- 
piness with yours ! If you can manage 
these matters without appearing to 
study them, so much the better. Some 
husbands are impatient of the routine 
of the toilette, and not unreasonably 
so — they possess active and energetic 
spirits, sorely disturbed by any waste 
of time. Some wives have discovered 
an admirable facility in dealing with 
this difficulty ; and it is a secret which, 
having been discovered by some, may 
be known to all, and is well worth the 
finding out. 

It is astonishing how much the 
cheerfulness of a wife contributes to 
the happiness of home. She is the sun 
— the centre of a domestic system, and 
her children are like planets around 
her, reflecting her rays. How merry 
the little ones look when the mother is 
joyous and good-tempered; and how 
easily and pleasantly her household 
labors are overcome! Her cheerful- 
ness is reflected everywhere : it is seen 
in the neatness of her toilette, the 
order of her table, and even the sea- 
soning of her dishes. We remember 
hearing a husband say that he could 
always gauge the temper of his wife by 
the quality of her cooking : good tem- 
per even influenced the seasoning of 
ner soups, and the lightness and deli- 
cacy of her pastry. When ill-temper 
pervades, the pepper is dashed in as a 
cloud — perchance the top of the pep- 
per-box is included, as a kind of a 
diminutive thunderbolt ; the salt is all 
in lumps ; and the spices seem to be- 
take themselves to one spot in a pud- 
ding, as if dreading the frowning face 
above them. If there be a husband 
who could abuse the smiles of a really 
good-tempered wife, we should like to 
look at him ! No, no, such a phenome- 
non does not exist. Among elements 



of domestic happiness, the amiability 
of the wife and mother is of the utmost 
importance — it is one of the best se- 
curities for the Happiness of Home. 

Perchance you think that your hus- 
band's disposition is much changed; 
that he is no longer the sweet-tem- 
pered, ardent lover he used to be. This 
may be a mistake. Consider his strug- 
gles with the world — his everlasting 
race with the busy competition of 
trade. What is it makes him so eager 
in the pursuit of gain — so energetic 
by day, so sleepless by night — but his 
love of home,, wife, and children, and 
a dread that their respectability, ac- 
cording to the light in which he has 
conceived it, may be encroached upon 
by the strife of existence ? This is the 
true secret of that silent care which 
preys upon the hearts of many men ; 
and true it is, that when love is least 
apparent, it is nevertheless the active 
principle which animates the heart, 
though fears and diappointments make 
up a cloud which obscures the warmer 
element. As above the clouds there 
is glorious sunshine, while below are 
showers and gloom, so with the con- 
duct of man — behind the gloom of 
anxiety is a bright fountain of high 
and noble feeling. Think of this in 
those moments when clouds seem to 
lower upon your domestic peace, and, 
by tempering your conduct accord- 
ingly, the gloom will soon pass away, 
and warmth and brightness take its 
place. 

Woman has always been described 
as clamoring for the last word : actors, 
authors, preachers, and philosophers, 
have agreed in attributing this trait to 
her, and in censuring her for it. Yet 
why they should condemn her, unless 
they wish the matter reversed, and thus 
committed themselves to the error im- 
puted to her, it were difficult to dis- 
cover. However, so it is ; — and it re- 
mains for some one of the sex, by an 
exhibition of noble example, to aid in 
sweeping away the unpleasant impu- 
tation. The wife who will establish 
the rule of allowing her husband to 
have the last word, will achieve foi 



302 



YOU ask! — I'l.i. tell! 



herself and her sex a great moral vic- 
tory ! Is he right ? — it were a great 
error to oppose him. Is he wrong f — 
he will soon discover it, and applaud 
the self-command which bore unvexed 
his pertinacity. And gradually there 
will spring up such a happy fusion of 
feelings and ideas, that there will be 
no " last word " to contend about, but 
a steady and unruffled flow of generous 
sentiment. 

Model Mothers. — Models are of 
the first importance in moulding the 
nature of a child ; and if we would 
have fine characters, we must neces- 
sarily present before them fine models. 
Now the model most constantly before 
every child's eye is the mother. " One 
good mother," said George Herbert, 
" is worth a hundred schoolmasters. 
In the home she is loadstone to all 
hearts and loadstar to all eyes." Imi- 
tation of her is constant — imitation 
which Bacon likens to a " globe of pre- 
cepts." It is instruction. It is teach- 
ing without words, often exemplify- 
ing more than tongue can teach. In 
the face of bad example the best pre- 
cepts are of but little avail. The ex- 
ample is followed, not the precepts. 
Indeed, precept at variance with prac- 
tice is worse than useless, inasmuch 
as it only serves to teach that most 
cowardly of vices — hypocrisy. Even 
children are judges of hypocrisy, and 
the lessons of the parent who says one 
thing and does the opposite are quickly 
seen through. 

Tired Mothers. 

A iittle elbow leans upon your knees, — 

Your tired kneo, that has so much to bear; 
A child's dear eyes are looking lovingly 

From uixlcriK-ath a thatch of tangled hair. 
Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch 

Of warm, moist lingers, folding yours so tight ; 
You du not prize this blessing over-much ; 

You almost are too tired to pray to-night. 

But it is blessedness I A year ago 

I did not see it as I do to-day — 
We are so dull and thankless, and too slow 

To catch the sunshine till it slips away. 
And now it seems surpassing strange to me, 

That, while I wore the badge of motherhood, 
[ did Dot kiss more oft and tenderly 

Ths little child that brought me only good. 



And if, some night, when yon sit down to rest, 

You miss this elbow from yuur tired knee, 
This restless, curliug head from off your breast, 

This lisping tongue that chatters constantly; 
If from your own the dimpled hands have slipped, 

And ne'er would nestle in your palm again: 
If the white feet into their grave had tripped — 

I could not blame you for your heartache thei 

I wonder so that mothers ever fret 

At little children clinging to their gowns; 
Or that the footprints, when the days are wet, 

Are ever black euoiigh to make them frown. 
If I could find a little muddy boot, 

Or cap, or jacket, on my chamber floor; 
If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot, 

And hear its patter in my house once more ; 

If I could mend a broken cart to-day. 

To-morrow make a kite to reach the sky- 
There is no woman in God's world could sajr 

She was more blissfully content than I. 
But ah 1 the dainty pillow next my own 

Is never rumpled by a shining head ; 
My singing bird from its nest is flown; 

The little boy I used to kiss is dead I 

We Learn from Daily Experi 
ENCE that children who have been 
the least indulged thrive much better, 
unfold all their faculties quicker, and 
acquire more muscular strength and 
vigor of mind, than those who have 
been constantly favored, and treated 
by their parents with the most solic- 
itous attention ; bodily weakness and 
mental imbecility are the usual attri- 
butes of the latter. 

The First and Principal Rule 
of education ought never to be forgot- 
ten — that man is intended to be a free 
and independent agent ; that his moral 
and physical powers ought to be spon- 
taneously developed ; that he should, aa 
soon as possible, be made acquainted 
with the nature and uses of all his 
faculties, in order to attain that degree 
of perfection which is consistent with 
the structure of his organs ; and that 
he was not originally designed for 
what we endeavor to make of him by 
artificial aid. 

The Greatest Art in educating 
children consists in a continued vigi- 
lance over all their actions, without 
ever giving them an opportunity of 
discovering that they are guided and 
watched. 

Children should not be allowed to 
ask for the same thing twice. Thia 
may be accomplished by parents, 
teacher, or whoever may happen t« 



ADVICE TO LADIES. 



303 



have the management of them, pay- 
ing attention to their little wants, if 
proper, at once, when possible. Chil- 
dren should be .instructed to under- 
stand that when they are not answered 
immediately, it is because it is not con- 
venient. Let them learn patience by 
waiting. 

To Awaken Children from their 
sleep with a noise, or in an impetuous 
manner, is extremely injudicious and 
hurtful ; nor is it proper to carry them 
from a dark room immediately into a 
glaring light, or against a dazzling 
wall ; for the sudden impression of 
light debilitates the organs of vision, 
and lays the foundation of weak eyes, 
from early infancy. 

Biting the Nails. — This is a habit 
that should be immediately corrected 
in children, as, if persisted in for any 
length of time, it permanently deforms 
the nails. Dipping the finger-ends in 
some bitter tincture will generally 
prevent children from putting them in 
their mouth ; but if this fails, as it 
sometimes will, each finger-end ought 
to be encased in a stall until the pro- 
pensity is eradicated. 

Counsels for the Young.— Never be 
cast down by trifles. If a spider break 
his thread twenty times, twenty times 
will he mend it again. Make up your 
mind to do a thing, and you will do 
it. Fear not if a trouble comes upon 
you ; keep up your spirits, though the 
day be a dark one. If the sun is going 
down, look up to the stars. If the 
earth is dark, keep your eye on heaven. 
With God's promises, a man or a child 
may be cheerful. Mind what you run 
after. Never be content with a bubble 
that will burst, firewood that will end 
in smoke and darkness. Get that 
which you can keep, and which is 
worth keeping. Fight hard against a 
hasty temper. Anger will come, but 
resist it strongly. A fit of passion may 
give you cause to mourn all the days 
of your life. Never revenge an injury. 
If you have an enemy, act kindly to 
him and make him your friend. You 
may not win him over at once, but try 
again. Lot one kindness be followed 



by another, till you have compassed 
your end. Bj little and little, great 
things are completed ; and repeated 
kindness will soften the heart of stone. 
Whatever you do, do it willingly. A 
boy that is whipped to school never 
learns his lessons well. A man who 
is compelled to work cares not how 
badly it is performed. He that pulls 
off his coat cheerfully, strips up his 
sleeves in earnest, and sings while he 
works, is the man of action. 

Advice to Young Ladies. — If 
you have blue eyes you need not lan- 
guish. 

If black eyes you need not stare. 

If you have pretty feet there is no 
occasion to wear short petticoats. 

If you are doubtful as to that point, 
there can be no harm in letting the 
petticoats be long. 

If you have good teeth, do not 
laugh for the purpose of showing 
them. 

If you have bad ones, do not laugh 
less than the occasion may justify. 

If you have pretty hands and arms, 
there can be no objection to your play- 
ing on the harp, if you play well. 

If they are disposed to be clumsy, 
work tapestry. 

If you have a bad voice, rather 
speak in a low tone. 

If you have the finest voice in the 
world, never speak in a high tone. 

If you dance well, dance but seldom. 

If you dance ill, never dance at all. 

If you sing well, make no previous 
excuses. 

If you sing indifferently, hesitate not 
a moment when you are asked, for few 
people are judges of singing, but every 
one is sensible of a desire to please. 

If you would preserve beauty, rise 
early. 

If you would preserve esteem, be 
gentle. 

If you would obtain power, be conde- 
scending. 

If you would live happily, endeavor 
to promote the happiness of others. 

DAUGHTERS.— Mothers who wish 
not only to discharge well their own 
duties in the domestic circle, but to 



304 



YOU ASK I I'l.L TEI.l! 



hrain up their daughters for a later day 
to make happy and comfortable fire- 
Bides for their families, should watch 
well, and guard well, the notions 
which they imbibe and with which 
they grow up. There will be so many 
persons ready to fill their young heads 
with false and vain fancies, and there 
is so much always afloat in society 
opposed to duty and common sense, 
that if mothers do not watch well 
their children may contract ideas very 
fatal to their future happiness and 
usefulness, and hold them till they 
grow into habits of thought or feeling. 
A wise mother will have her eyes 
open, and be ready for every emer- 
gency. A few words of common, 
downright practical sense, timely 
uttered by her, may be enough to 
counteract some foolish idea or belief 
put into her daughter's head by 
others, while if it be left unchecked, 
it may take such possession of the 
mind that it cannot be corrected at a 
later time. One falsity abroad in this 
age is the notion that women, unless 
compelled to it by absolute poverty, 
are out of place when engaged in 
domestic affairs. Now mothers should 
have a care lest their daughters get 
bold of this conviction as regards 
themselves — there is danger of it ; the 
fashion of the day engenders it, and 
the care that an affectionate family 
take to keep a girl, during the time 
of her education, free from other 
occupations than those of her tasks or 
her recreations, also endangers it. It 
is possible that affection may err in 
pushing this care too far ; for as edu- 
cation means a fitting for life, and as 
a woman's life is much connected with 
domestic and family affairs — or ought 
to be so — if the indulgent considera- 
tion of parents abstain from all de- 
mands upon the young pupil of the 
school not connected with her books 
or her play, will she not naturally 
infer that the matters with which she 
is never asked to concern herself are, 
in fact, no concern to her, and that 
any attention she ever may bestow on 
them is not a matter of simple duty, 



hut of grace, or concession, or stooping, 
on her part ? Let mothers avoid such 
danger. If they would do so, they 
must bring up their daughters from 
the first with the idea that in this 
world it is required to give as well as 
to receive, to minister as well as to 
enjoy ; that every person is bound to 
be useful — practically, literally useful 
— in his own sphere, and that a wo- 
man's first sphere is the house, and its 
concerns and demands. Once really 
imbued with this belief, and taught to 
see how much the comfort and happi- 
ness of woman herself, as well as of 
her family, depends on this part of her 
discharge of duty, a young girl will 
usually be anxious to learn all that 
her mother is disposed to teach, and 
will be proud and happy to aid in any 
domestic occupations assigned to her. 
These need never be made so heavy as 
to interfere with the peculiar duties 
or enjoyments of her age. If a 
mother wishes to see her daughter 
become a good, happy, and rational 
woman, never let there be contempt 
for domestic occupations, or suffer 
them to be deemed secondary. 

BOYS. — What to do with boys is a 
question which sometimes troubles wise 
heads. We know some people consider 
them a sort of nuisance, capable of 
making any amount of noise, and al- 
ways ready for mischief, whether it be 
pulling the cat's tail, teasing little 
sisters, or playing with powder and 
matches in the barn ; but, with all 
their pranks and capers, we like them, 
and consider them a very much mis- 
used portion of society. Boys are very 
much what we make them by our treat- 
ment of them. Girls are nice little 
bodies, so we dress them nicely, make 
birthday parties for them — but a boy's 
birthday party, who ever heard of such 
a thing? and as to fixing them up, why 
that is altogether out of the question- 
But never mind, boys; while the girl* 
are confined indoors to prevent their 
clothes from becoming soiled, you can 
climb trees, fish, build dams, and have 
more real fun than could be gotten out 
of the most splendid suit of clothes in 



TEACH HOYS TRADES. 



305 



town, besides building up a strong con- 
stitution in your already robust little 
body. 

Boys must have amusement and 
recreation after their day's labor. If 
they cannot find it at home, they will 
be apt to seek it away from home; 
hence it becomes parents to provide 
entertainment at home. If fond of 
music, furnish them an instrument, if 
your means permit, whether it be vio- 
lin, guitar, or piano ; if games interest 
them, provide innocent ones ; if fond 
of reading, by all means supply the 
best of literature, and endeavor to cul- 
tivate that taste where it is deficient, 
although plain clothes must be worn 
in order to incur the necessary expense 
of purchasing suitable books and 
papers. Amusements are not the only 
things necessary to make boys feel an 
interest in home affairs. If they can 
claim something as their own, it will 
be a stimulus to them. If they like 
bees, let them have a swarm all their 
own, the avails of which go into their 
own pockets ; or let them manage some 
of the poultry, raise a calf or pig for 
their own — not theirs until killing or 
selling time comes, when it belongs to 
father. 

Few boys have the right idea of 
courage. It is often possessed by quiet 
and gentle boys, who are looked upon 
by their mates as the least courageous. 
The boy who will not quarrel when he 
is abused ; the boy who keeps himself 
pure in speech and act when others are 
rough and wicked ; the boy who defends 
the weak against the strong ; the boy 
who loves God, and is not afraid to 
show it — he is the brave boy, and 
makes the noble man. Don't forget, 
dear boy. 

A lazy boy makes a lazy man, just as 
Bure as a crooked sapling makes a 
crooked tree. Who ever yet saw a boy 
grow up in idleness, that did not make 
a shiftless vagabond when he became a 
man, unless he had a fortune left him 
to keep up appearances ? The great 
mass of thieves, paupers, and criminals 
have come to what they are by being 
brought up in idleness. Those who 
20 



constitute the business part of the com- 
munity — those who make our great 
and useful men — were taught to be in- 
dustrious. 

Boys, Learn Trades ! — The annual 
report of Hon. J. P.Wickersham, State 
Superintendent of Common Schools for 
1872, contains the following signifi- 
cant paragraph, pointing parents to 
the importance of having their chil- 
dren learn some useful mechanical 
trade. The statistics given are brief 
and startling, Mr. Wickersham says : 
" There are multitudes idly waiting 
for vacant clerkships and unfilled 
offices, while mechanical work, more 
honorable and more remunerative, in- 
vites on all sides the efforts of willing 
hands. It is a fact as startling as it is 
significant that of seventeen thousand 
criminals in the Unitud States in 1868, 
ninety - seven per cent, of them had 
never learned a trade. Out of two 
hundred and forty convicts received 
at the Eastern Penitentiary (Pennsyl- 
vania) last year, only twelve had been 
apprenticed and served their time." 

Wanted— an Honest, Industrious, 
Steady Boy. — We lately saw an ad- 
vertisement headed as above. It con- 
veys to every boy an impressive moral 
lesson. " An honest, industrious boy," 
is always wanted. He will be sought 
for ; his services will be in demand ; 
he will be respected and loved ; he 
will be spoken of in terms of high 
commendation ; he will always have a 
home ; will grow up to be a man of 
known worth and established charac- 
ter. He will be wanted. The mer- 
chant will want him for a salesman or 
clerk ; the master mechanic will want 
him for an apprentice or foreman ; 
those with a job to let will want him 
for a contractor ; clients will want him 
for a lawyer ; patients for a physician ; 
religious congregations for a pastor; 
parents for a teacher of their children ; 
and the people for an officer. He will 
be wanted — townsmen will want him 
for a citizen ; acquaintance as a neigh- 
bor ; neighbors as a friend ; families 
as a visitor ; the world as an acquaint- 
ance; nay, girls will want him as a 



306 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



beau, and finally, for a husband ! An 
honest, industrious boy ! Just think 
of it, boys ; will you answer this descrip- 
tion? Can you apply for this situa- 
tion ? Are you sure that you will be 
wanted? You may be smart and ac- 
tive, but that does not fill the requisi- 
tion — are you honest ? You may be 
capable — are you industrious ? You 
may be well dressed, and create a fa- 
vorable impression at first sight, but 
are you honest, steady, and indus- 
trious? You may apply for a good 
situation — are you sure that your 
friends, teachers, and acquaintances 
can recommend you for these quali- 
ties? Nothing else will make up for 
a lack of them ; no readiness or apt- 
ness for business will do it. You must 
be honest, steady, and industrious ! 

SERVANTS.— There are frequent 
complaints in these days, that servants 
are bad, and apprentices are bad, and 
dependants and aiding hands gener- 
ally are bad. It may be so. But if it 
is so, what is the inference? In the 
■working of the machine of society, 
class moves pretty much with class; 
that is, one class moves pretty much 
with its equals in the community 
(equals so far as social station is con- 
cerned), and apart from other classes, 
as much those below as those above 
itself; but there is one grand exception 
to this general rule, and that is, in the 
case of domestic servants. The same 
holds, though in less degree, with ap- 
prentices and assistant hands ; and in 
less degree only, because in this last 
case, the difference of grade is slighter. 
Domestic servants, and assistants in 
business and trade, come most closely 
and continually into contact with their 
employers ; they are about them from 
morning till night, and see them in 
every phase of character, in every 
style of humor, in every act of life. 
How powerful is the force of example! 
Rectitude is promoted, not only by 
precept but by example, and, so to 
speak, by contact it is increased more 
widely. Kindness is communicated 
in the same way. Virtue of every 
kind acts like an electric shock. Those 



who come under its influence imbiba 
its principles. The same with quali- 
ties and tempers that do no honor to 
our nature. If servants come to yoi 
bad, you may at least improve them 
possibly almost change their nature. 
Here follows, then, a receipt to that 
effect : — Receipt for obtaining good 
servants. — Let them observe in your 
conduct to others just the qualities 
and virtues that you would desire they 
should possess and practice as respecta 
you. Be uniformly kind and gentle. 
If you reprove, do so with reason and 
with temper. Be respectable, and you 
will be respected by them. Be kind, 
and you will meet kindness from them. 
Consider their interests, and they will 
consider yours. A friend in a servant 
is no contemptible thing. Be to every 
servant a friend ; and heartless, in- 
deed, will be the servant who does not 
warm in love to you. 

Ready Money will always com- 
mand the best and cheapest of every 
article of consumption, if expended 
with judgment: and the dealer, who in- 
tends to act fairly, will always prefer it. 

Trust not him who seems more 
anxious to give credit than to receive 
cash. 

The former hopes to secure cus- 
tom by having a hold upon you in his 
books ; and continues always to make 
up for his advance, either by an ad- 
vanced price, or an inferior article; 
while the latter knows that your cus- 
tom can only be secured by fair deal- 
ing. 

There is, likewise, another 
Consideration, as far as economy is 
concerned, which is not only to buy 
with ready money, but to buy at 
proper seasons ; for there is with every 
article a cheap season and a dear oiio ; 
and with none more than coals : iiisu- 
mu(!h, that the master of a family who 
fills iiis coal-cellar in the middle of 
the summer, rather than the bejiin- 
nins of the winter, will find it filled 
at less expense than it would othoi- 
wise cost him, and will be enabled to 
see December's snows falling without 
leeling his enjoyment 



THE USE OF LANGUAGE. 



Errors to be Avoided in Conversation— Rules of Pronunciation- 
How TO Spell and Punctuate Correctly. 



CONVERSATION. — There are 
many talkers, but few who know how 
to converse agreeably. Speak dis- 
tinctly, neither too rapidly nor too 
slowly. Accommodate the pitch of your 
voice to the hearing of the person with 
whom you are conversing. Never 
speak with your mouth full. Tell 
your jokes, and laugh afterwards. 
Dispense with superfluous words — 
such as, " Well, I should think." 

The Woman who wishes her con- 
versation to be agreeable will avoid 
conceit or affectation, and laughter 
which is not natural and spontaneous. 
Her language will be easy and un- 
studied, marked by a graceful careless- 
ness, which, at the same time, never 
oversteps the limits of propriety. Her 
lips will readily yield to a pleasant 
smile ; she will not love to hear herself 
talk ; her tones will bear the impress 
of sincerity, and her eyes kindle with 
animation as she speaks. The art of 
pleasing is, in truth, the very soul of 
good breeding ; for the precise object 
of the latter is to render us agreeable 
to all with whom we associate — to 
make us, at the same time, esteemed 
and loved. 

We need scarcely advert to 
the rudeness of interrupting any one 
who is speaking, or to the impropriety 
of pushing, to its full extent, a discus- 
sion which has become unpleasant. 

Some Men have a Mania for 
Greek and Latin quotations : this is 
peculiarly to be avoided. It is like 
pulling up the stones from a tomb 
wherewith to kill the living. Nothing 
is more wearisome than pedantry. 



If you feel your Intellectual 
Superiority to any one with whom 
you are conversing, do not seek to bear 
him down : it would be an inglorious 
criumph, and a breach of good manners. 
Beware, too, of speaking lightly of 
subjects which bear a sacred character. 

Witlings occasionally gain a 
Reputation in society ; but nothing 
is more insipid and in worse taste than 
their conceited harangues and self-suf- 
ficient air. 

It is a Common Idea that the art 
of writing and the art of conversation 
are one ; this is a great mistake. A 
man of genius may be a very dull 
talker. 

The Two Grand Modes of making 
your conversation interesting, are to 
enliven it by recitals calculated to 
affect and impress your hearers, and to 
intersperse it with anecdotes and smart 
things. 

Errors in Speaking. — There are 
several kinds of errors in speaking. 
The most objectionable of them 
are those in which words are em- 
ployed that are unsuita.ble to convey 
the meaning intended. Thus, a per- 
son wishing to express his intention 
of going to a given place, says, " I 
propose going," when, in fact, he pur- 
poses going. An amusing illustration 
of this class of error was overheard by 
ourselves. A venerable matron was 
speaking of her son, who, she said, 
was quite stage-struck. " In fact," re- 
marked the old lady, " he is going to ;; 
pren^Uure performance this evening!" 
«Jousidering that most amateur per- 
formances are premature, we hesitate 
307 



308 



YOU ask! — I'll, tell! 



to say that this word was misapplied ; 
though, evidently, the maternal inten- 
tion was to convey quite another 
meaning. 

Other Errors Arise from the 
substitution of sounds similar to the 
words whicli should be employed ; 
that is, spurious words instead of gen- 
uine ones. Thus, some people say, 
" renumerative," when they mean " re- 
munerative." A nurse, recommending 
her mistress to have one of the newly- 
invented carriages for her child, ad- 
vised her to purchase a preamputator / 

Other Errors are Occasioned 
by imperfect knowledge of the Eng- 
lish grammar. Thus, many people 
say, " Between you and I," instead of 
" Between you and me." By the mis- 
use of the adjective : " What beautiful 
butter ! What a nice landscape ! " 
They should say, " What a beautiful 
lanchcape I What nice butter ! " And 
by numerous other departures from 
the rules of grammar, which will be 
pointed out hereafter. 

By the Mispronunciation of 
Words. Many persons say ^ronoun- 
ciation instead of pronunciation ; oth- 
ers say pro-nun-she-a-shun, instead of 
pro-nun-ce-a-shun. 

By the Misdivision of Words 
and syllables. This defect makes the 
words an ambassador sound like a nam- 
bassador, or a7i adder like a nadder. 

By Imperfect Enunciation, as 
when a person says hebben for heaven, 
ebber for ever, jocholate for chocolate, 
etc. 

By the Use of Provincialisms, 
or words retained from various dia- 
lects. 

Rules and Hints for Correct 
Speaking. — Who and tvhom are used 
in relation to persons, and which in 
relation to things. But it was once 
common to say, " the man which." 
This should now be avoided. It is 
now usual to say, " Our Father who 
art in heaven," instead of "which art 
in heaven." 

\\%ose is, however, sometimes ap- 
plied to things as well as to persona 



We may therefore say, " The country 
whose inhabitants are free." [Gram- 
marians differ in opinion upon this 
subject, but general usage justifies the 
rule.] 

Thou is employed in solemn dis- 
course, and you in common language. 
Ye (plural) is also used in serious 
addresses, and you in familiar language. 

The uses of the word It are vari- 
ous, and very perplexing to the uned- 
ucated. It is not only used to imply 
persons, but things, and even ideas, 
and therefore, in speaking or writing, 
its assistance is constantly required. 
The perplexity respecting this word, 
arises from the fact that in using it in 
the construction of a long sentence, 
sufficient care is not taken to insure 
that when it is employed it really 
points out or refers to the object in- 
tended. For instance, " It was rain- 
ing when John set out in his cart to 
go to the market, and he waa delayed 
so long that it was over before he 
arrived." Now what is to be under- 
stood by this sentence? Was the rain 
over? or the market? Either or both 
might be inferred from the construc- 
tion of the sentence, which, therefore, 
should be written thus : "It was rain- 
ing when John set out in his cart to 
go to the market, and he was delayed 
so long that the market was over be- 
fore he arrived." 

Eule. — After writing a sentence, 
always look through it, and see that 
wherever the word It is employed, it 
refers to or carries the mind back to 
the object which it is intended to point 
«ut. 

The general distinction between This 
and That is, this denotes an object 
present or near, in time or place, that 
something which is absent. 

These refers, in the same manner, 
to present objects, while those refers to 
things that are remote. 

Who changes, under certain condi- 
tions, into ivhose and whom. But that 
and which always remain the same. 

That may be applied to nouns or 
subjects of all sorts ; as, the girl that 
went to school, the d^g that bit me, the 



CONVERSATION. 



309 



ship that went to London, the ojnnion 
that he entertained. 

The misuse of these pronouns gives 
rise to more errors in speaking and 
writing than any other cause. 

When you wish to distinguish be- 
tween two or more persons, say, 
''Which is the happy man?" — not 
who — "Wliich of those ladies do you 
admire ? " 

Instead of " Who do you think hiw 
to be?" — Say," Whom do you thiik 
him to be ? " 

Who77i should I see ? 

To whom do you speak ? 

Who said so ? 

Who gave it to you ? 

Of whom did you procure them ? 

Who was he ? 

Who do men say that / am ? 

Whom do they represent me to bfi ? 

In many instances in which who i? 
used as an interrogative, it does not 
become whom ; as " Who do vou speak 
to ? " " Who do you expect ? " " Who 
is she married to? " " Who is this re- 
served for ? " " Who was it made by ? " 
Such sentences are found in the writ- 
ings of our best authors, and it would 
be presumptuous to consider them as 
ungrammatical. If the word whom 
should be preferred, then it would be 
best to say, " For whom is this re- 
served?" etc. 

Instead of " After which hour," say, 
"After that hour." 

Self should never be added to his, 
their, mine, or thine. 

Each is used to denote every indi- 
vidual of a number. 

Every denotes all the Individuals of 
a number. 

Either and or denote an alternative : 
" I will take either road, at your pleas- 
ure ; "' "I will take this or that." 

Neither means not either; and nor 
means not the other. 

Either is sometimes used for each — 
*' Two thieves were crucified, on either 
side one." 

" Let each esteem others as good as 
themselves," should be, " Let each 
esteem others as good as himself." 

" There are bodies each of which are 



80 small," should be, " each of which is 
80 small." 

Do not use double superlatives, such 
as most straightest, most highest, most 
finest. 

The term worser has gone out of use ; 
but lesser is still retained. 

The use of such words as chiefest, ex- 
tremest, etc., has become obsolete, be- 
cause they do not give any superior 
forms to the meanings of the primary 
words, chief, extreme, etc. 

Such expressions as more impossible, 
more indispensable, more universal, more 
uncontrollable, more unlimited, etc., are 
objectionable, as they really enfeeble 
the meaning which it is the object of 
the speaker or writer to strengthen. 
For instance, impossible gains no 
strength by rendering it more impossi- 
ble. This class of error is common 
with persons who say, " A great large 
house," " A great big animal," " A little 
small foot," " A tiny little hand." 

Here, there, and where, originally de- 
noting place, may now, by common 
consent, be used to denote other mean- 
ings; such as " There I agree with 
you," " Where we differ," " We find 
pain where we expected pleasure," 
"Here you mistake me." 

Hence, whence, and thence denoting 
departure, etc., may be used without 
the word from. The idea oi from is 
included in the word whence — there- 
fore it is unnecessary to say, "From 
whence." 

Hither, thither, and whither, denoting 
to a place, have generally been super- 
seded by here, there, and where. But 
there is no good reason why they 
should not be employed. If, however, 
they are used, it is unnecessary to add 
the word to, because that is implied — 
"Whither are you going?" "Where 
are you going?" Each of these sen- 
tences is complete. To say, " Where 
are you going to f " is redundant. 

Two negatives destroy each other, 
and produce an affirmative. " Nor did 
he not observe them," conveys the idea 
that he did observe them. 

But negative assertions are allow- 
able. " His manners are not unpo- 



310 



YOU ask! — I'll, tell! 



lite," which implies that his manners 
are, in some degree, marked by polite- 
ness. 

Instead of " t had rather walk," say 
" I would rather walk." 

Instead of " I had better go," say " It 
were better that I should go." 

Instead of " I doubt not but I shall 
be able to go," say " I doubt not that I 
shall be able to go." 

Instead of " Let you and /," say 
" Let you and me." 

Instead of " I am not so tall 
as him" say "I am not so tall as 
he." 

When asked "Who is there?" do 
not answer " Me," but " I." 

Instead of "For you and /," say 
" For you and me." 

Instead of " Says I," say " I said." 

Instead of "You are taller than 
me" say " You are taller than I." 

Instead of " I ain't," or " I amH," 
say " I am not." 

Instead of "Whether I be present 
or no," B&y " Whether I be present or 
not." 

For "Not that I know on," say 
" Not that I know." 

Instead of " Was 1 to do so," say 
" Were I to do so." 

Instead of "I would do the same 
if 1 was him," say "I would do the 
same if I were he." 

Instead of " I had as lief go my- 
self," say " I would as soon go my- 
self," or " I would rather." 

It is better to say " Bred and born," 
than " Born and bred." 

It is better to say "Six weeks 
ago," than "Six weeks back." 

It is better to say "Since which 
time," than "Since when." 

It is better to say " I repeated it," 
than " I said so over again." 

It is better to say " A physician," 
or " A surgeon " (according to his de- 
gree), than " A doctor." 

Instead of " He was too young to 
have suffered much," say " He was too 
young to suffer much." 

Instead of "Less friends," say 
" Fewer friends." Less refers to quan- 
tity. 



Instead of "We accuse him /or" say 
" We accuse him of." 

Instead of " We acquit him from," 
say " We acquit him of." 

Instead of " I am averse /rom that," 
say " I am averse to that." 

Instead of " I confide on you," say 
" I confide in you." 

Instead of " I differ with you," say 
" I differ from you." 

Instead of " As soon as ever,'' say 
" As soon as." 

Instead of " The very best," or " The 
very worst," say " The best or the 
worst." 

Instead of " A winters moraing," say 
" A winter morning," or " A wintry 
morning." 

Instead of " Fine morning, this 
morning," say " This is a fine morning." 

Instead of " How do you do f " say 
" How are you ? " 

Instead of " Not so well as I could 
wish," say " Not quite well." 

Avoid such phrases as " No great 
shakes," " Nothing to boast of," 
" Down in my boots," " Suffering from 
the blues." All such sentences indi- 
cate vulgarity. 

Instead of " No one cannot prevail 
upon him," say " No one can prevail 
upon him." 

Instead of "No one hasn't called," 
say " No one has called." 

Avoid such phrases as " If I was 
you," or even " If I were you." Better 
say ". I advise you how to act." 

Instead of " You have a right to pay 
me," say " It is right that you should 
pay me." 

Instead of " I am going on a tour," 
say " I am about to take a tour," or 
"going." 

Instead of " I am going over the 
bridge," say " I am going across the 
bridge." 

Instead of " He is coming here," say 
" He is coming hither." 

Instead of " He lives opposite the 
square," say " He lives opposite to the 
square." 

Instead of" He belongs to the Reform 
Club," say " He is a member of the 
Reform Club." 



CONVERSATION. 



311 



Instead of " This villa to let" say 
" This villa to be let." 

Instead of " I am slight in compari- 
son to you," say " I am slight in com- 
parison with you." 

Instead of " I went for to see him," 
Bay " I went to see him." 

Instead of " The cake is all eat up," 
Bay " The cake is all eaten." 

Instead of" It is bad at the best," say 
" It is very bad." 

Instead of " Handsome is as hand- 
some does," say "Handsome is who 
handsome does." 

Instead of "As I take it," say " As I 
see," •r "As I understand it." 

Instead of " The book fell on the 
floor," say "The book fell to the 
floor." 

Instead of "His opinions are ap- 
proved of by all," say " His opinions 
are approved by all." 

Instead of " I will add one more ar- 
gument," say " I will add one argu- 
ment more," or " another argument." 

Instead of " Captain Reilly was 
killed by a bullet," say " Captain 
Reilly was killed with a bullet." 

Instead of "A sad curse is war," say 
" War is a sad curse." 

Instead of " He stands six foot high," 
say " He measures six feet," or " His 
height is six feet." 

Instead of " I go every now and then," 
say " I go often, or frequently." 

Instead of " Who finds him in 
clothes," say " Who provides him with 

Say " The first two," and " the last 
two," instead of " The two first," "the 
two last ; " leave out all expletives, 
such as " of all," " first of all," " last 
of all," " best of all," etc., etc. 

Instead of " His health was drank 
with enthusiasm," say " His health was 
drunk enthusiastically." 

Instead of "Except I am prevented," 
say " Unless I am prevented." 

Instead of " In its primary sense," 
say " In its primitive sense." 

Instead of " It grieves me to see 
you," say " I am grieved to see you." 

Instead of " Give me them papers," 
say " Give me those papers." 



Instead of "Those papers I hold in 
my hand," say " These papers I hold 
in my hand." 

Instead of" I could scarcely imagine 
hut what," say "I could scarcely imagine 
but that." 

Instead of " He was a man notorious 
for his benevolence," say "He was 
noted for his benevolence." 

Instead of " She was a woman cele- 
brated for her crimes," say " She waa 
notorious on account of her crimes." 

Instead of " What may your name 
be? " say " What is your name ? " 

Instead of " Bills are requested not to 
be stuck here," say " Bill-stickers are 
requested not to stick bills here." 

Instead of "By smoking it often be- 
comes habitual," say " By smoking 
often it becomes habitual." 

Instead of " I lifted it up," say " I 
lifted it." 

Instead of " It is equally of the same 
value," say " It is of the same value," 
or " equal value." 

Instead of "I knew it previous to 
your telling me," say "I knew it pre- 
viously to your telling me." 

Instead of " You rvas out when I 
called," say " You were out when I 
called." 

Instead of " 1 thought I should have 
won this game," say "I thought I should 
win this game." 

Instead of "This much is certain," 
say " Thus much is certain," or, " So 
much is certain." 

Instead of " He went away a^ it may 
be yesterday week," say " He went away 
yesterday week." 

Instead of " He came the Saturday 
as it may be before the Mondkty" specify 
the Monday on which he came. 

Instead of " Put your watch in your 
pocket," say " Put your watch into your 
pocket." 

Instead of " He has got riches," say 
" He has riches." 

Instead of " Will you set down ? " say 
" Will you sit down ? " 

Instead of " The hen is setting," say 
" The hen is sitting." 

Instead of " It is raining very 
hard," say " It is raining very feat." 



312 



YOU ask!— I'll tell! 



fnatead of " A quantity of people," 
say " A number of people." 

Instead of "He and they we know," 
say " Him and them." 

Instead of '^ As far as I can see," say 
" So far as I can see." 

Instead of " If I am not mistaken^'' 
say " If I mistake not." 

Instead of " You are mistaken," say 
" You mistake." 

Instead of " What beautiful tea ! " say 
" What good tea ! " 

Instead of " What a nice prospect ! " 
say " What a beautiful prospect! " 

Instead of " A new pair of gloves," 
say " A pair of new gloves." 

Instead of saying " He belongs to 
the house," say " The house belongs to 
him." 

Instead of saying " Not no such 
thing," say " Not any such thing." 

Instead of " I hope you '11 think 
nothing on it," say " I hope you '11 think 
nothing of it." 

Instead of " Restore it back to me," 
say " Restore it to me." 

Instead of " I suspect the veracity of 
his story," say " I doubt the truth of 
his story." 

Instead of " I seldom or ever see 
him," say " I seldom see him." 

Instead of '^Rather warmish," or "A 
little warmish," say " Rather warm." 

Instead of " I expected to have found 
him," say " I expected to find him." 

Instead of " Shay," say " Chaise." 

Instead of " He is a very rmng per- 
son," say " He is rising rapidly," 

Instead of " Who learns you music ? " 
say " Who teaches you music? " 

Instead of " I never sing whenever I 
can help it," say " I never sing when I 
can help it." 

Instead of " Before I do that I must 
first ask leave," say " Before I do that 
I must ask leave." 

Instead of " To get over the diffi- 
culty," say " To overcome the diffi- 
culty." 

The lihrase " get over" is in many 
ca.ses misapplied, ha, to " get over a 
person," to " get over a week," to " get 
over an opposition." 

Instead of saying "The observation 



of the rule," say " The observance of 
the rule." 

Instead of " A man of eighty years 
of age," say "A man eighty years old." 

Instead of " Here lays his honored 
head," say "Here lies his honored head." 

Instead of " He died from negli- 
gence," say " He died through neglect," 
or " in consequence of neglect." 

Instead of " Apples are plenty," say 
"Apples are plentiful." 

Instead of " The latter end of the 
year," say " Th( end, or the close of the 
year." 

Instead of " The then government," 
say " The government of that age, or 
century, or year, or time." 

Instead of " For ought I know," say 
" For aught I know." 

Instead of " A couple of chairs," say 
"Two chairs." 

Instead of " Two couples," say " Four 
persons." 

But you ma/ say " A married 
couple," or " A married pair," or " A 
couple of fowls," etc., jn any case 
where one of each sex is to be under- 
stood. 

Instead of " They are united together 
in the bonds of matrimony," say " They 
are united in matrimony," or " They 
are married." 

Instead of "We travel slow," say "We 
travel slowly." 

Instead of " He plunged down into 
the river," say " He j^lunged into the 
river." 

Instead of " He jumped from off of 
the scaffolding," say " He jumped off 
from the scaffolding." 

Instead of " He came the last of all," 
say " He came the last." 

Instead of " universal," with reference 
to things that have any limit, say "gen- 
eral ; " " generally aj)proved," instead 
of " universally approved ; " " gener- 
ally beloved," instead of " universally 
beloved." 

Instead of "They ruined oy„t another," 
say " They ruined each other." 

Instead of " If in case I succeed," 
say " If I succeed." 

Instead of " A large enough room,' 
say "A room large enough." 



CONVERSATION. 



313 



Avoid such phrases as " I am up to 
you," " I '11 be dowu upon you," 
•' Cut," or " Mizzle." 

Instead of " I should Jiist think I 
could," say " I think I can." 

Instead of " There has been a good 
deal," say " There has been much." 

Instead of " Following up a princi- 
ple," say " Guided by a principle." 

Instead of " Your obedient, humble 
servant," say " Your obedient," or, 
" Your humble servant." 

Instead of saying "The effort you 
are making for meeting the bill," say 
" The effort you are making to meet 
the bill." 

Instead of saying " It shall be sub- 
mitted to investigation and inquiry," 
say " It shall be submitted to investi- 
gation," or, '• to inquiry." 

Dispense with the phrase "Conceal 
from themselves the fact ;" it suggests a 
gross anomaly. 

Never say " Pure and unadulterated," 
because the phrase embodies a repe- 
tition. 

Instead of saying "Adequate for," 
say " Adequate to." 

Instead of saying " A surplus over 
and above," say " A surplus." 

Instead of saying " A lasting and 
permanent peace," say " A permanent 
peace." 

Instead of saying " I left you behind 
at Boston," say " I left you behind me 
at Boston." 

Instead of saying " Has been followed 
by immediate dismissal," say " Was 
followed by immediate dismissal." 

Instead of saying " Charlotte was 
met with Thomas," say " Charlotte was 
met by Thomas." But if Charlotte 
and Thomas were walking together, 
" Charlotte and Thomas were met by," 
etc. 

Instead of " It is strange that no 
author should never have written," say 
"It is strange that no author should 
ever have written." 

Instead of " I won't never write," say 
" I will never write." 

To say " Do not give him no more of 
your money," is equivalent to saying 
" (Hve him some of your money." Say 



" Do not give him any of your 
money." 

Instead of saying " They are not 
what nature designed them," say 
" They are not what nature designed 
them to be." 

Instead of " By this meam," say " By 
these means." 

Instead of saying " A beautiful seat 
and gardens," say " A beautiful seat 
and its gardens." 

Instead of " All that was wanting," 
say " All that was wanted." 

Instead of saying " I had not the 
pleasure of hearing his sentiments 
when I wrote that letter," say " I had 
not the pleasure of having heard," etc. 

Instead of "The quality of the 
apples were good," say " The quality 
of the apples was good." 

Instead of " The want of learning, 
courage, and energy are more visible," 
say " is more visible." 

Instead of " We are conversant about 
it," say " We are conversant with it." 

Instead of " We called at William," 
say " We called on William." 

Instead of " We die for want," say 
" We die of want." 

Instead of " He died by fever," say 
" He died of fever." 

Instead of " I enjoy bad health," say 
" My health is not good." 

Instead of " Either of the three," say 
" Any one of the three." 

Instead of " Better nor that," say 
" Better than that." 

Instead of " We often think on you," 
say " We often think of you." 

Instead of " Though he came, I did 
not see him," say " Though he came, 
yet I did not see him." 

Instead of "Mine is so good as yours," 
say " Mine is as good as yours." 

Instead of " He was remarkable 
handsome," say " He was remarkably 
handsome." 

Instead of "Smoke ascends up the 
chimney," say "Smoke ascends the 
chimney." 

Instead of " You will some day be 
convinced," say " You will one day be 
convinced." 

Instead of saying " Because I don't 



314 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



choose to," say " Because I would 
rather not." 

Instead of " Because why ? " say 
"Why?" 

Instead of "That there boy," say 
" That boy." 

Instead of "Direct your letter to 
me," say "Address your letter to me." 

Instead of " The horse is not much 
■worth" say " The horse is not worth 
much." 

Instead of " The subject-matter of 
debate," say "The subject of debate." 

Instead of saying "When hewas come 
back," say " When he had come back." 

Instead of saying " His health has 
been shook," say " His health has been 
shaken." 

Instead of " It was spoke in my pres- 
ence," say " It was spoken in my pres- 
ence." 

Instead of " Very right," or " Very 
wrong," say " Eight," or " Wrong." 

Instead of " The mortgager paid him 
the money," say " The mortgagee paid 
him the money." The mortgagee 
lends ; the mortgager borrows. 

Instead of " This town is not as large 
as we thought," say " This town is not 
so large as we thought." 

Instead of " I took you to be another 
person," say " I mistook you for another 
person." 

Instead of " On either side of the 
river," say " On each side of the river." 

Instead of " There 's fifty," say "There 
are fifty." 

Instead of " The best of the two," 
say " The better of the two." 

Instead of " My clothes have become 
too small for me," say " I have grown 
too stout for my clothes." 

Instead of " Is Mr. Adams in f " say 
"Is Mr. Adams within?" 

Instead of " Two spoonsful of physic," 
say " Two spoonfuls of physic." 

Instead of " He must not do it," say 
" He needs not do it." 

Instead of " She said, says she," say 
" She said." 

Avoid such phrases as " I said, says 
I," '• Thinks I to myself, thinks I," etc. 

Instead of " I don't think so," say 
" I think not." 



Instead of " He was in eminent dan* 
ger," say "He was in imminent dan* 
ger." 

Instead of "The weather is hot,'* 
say " The weather is very warm." 

Instead of "I sweat," say " I per- 
spire." 

Instead of " I only want two dol- 
lars," say " I want only two dollars." 

Instead of " Whatsomever," say 
" Whatever," or " Whatsoever." 

Avoid such exclamations as " God 
bless me 1 " " God deliver me ! " " Bv 
God!" "By Gor' ! " "My Lor' I" 
" Upon my soul ! " etc. 

" Thou shalt not take the name 
OF THE Lord thy God in vain." 

PRONUNCIATION. — Accent is 
a particular stress or force of the voice 
upon certain syllables or words. This 
mark ^ in printing denotes the sylla- 
ble upon which the stress or force of 
the voice should be placed. 

A Word may have more than 
ONE Accent. Take as an instance as- 
piration. In uttering this word we 
give a marked emphasis of the voice 
upon the first and third syllables, and 
therefore those syllables are said to be 
accented. The first of these accents is 
less distinguishable than the second, 
upon which we dwell longer, therefore 
the second accent is called the primary, 
or chief accent of the word. 

When the Full Accent falls 
ON A Vowel, that vowel should have 
a long sound, as in vo^cal; but when 
it falls on a consonant, the preceding 
vowel has a short sound, as in hab^it. 

To OBTAIN A Good Knowledge of 
Pronunciation, it is advisable for 
the reader to listen to the examples 
given by good speakers, and by edu- 
cated persons. We learn the pronun- 
ciation of words, to a great extent, by 
imitation, just as birds acquire the 
notes of other birds which may be 
near them. 

But it will be very Important 
to bear in mind that there are many 
words having a double meaning or ap- 
plication, and that the difference of 
meaning is indicated by the difference 
of the accent. Among these words. 



PRONUNCIATION. 



315 



itouTis are distinguished from verbs 
hj this means ; nouns are mostly ac- 
cented on the first syllable, and verbs 
on the last. 

Noun signifies name; nouns are 
the names of persons and things, as 
well as of things not material and pal- 
pable, but of which we have a concep- 
tion and knowledge, such as courage, 
firmness, goodness, strength ; and verbs 
express actions, movements, etc. If the 
word used signifies that anything has 
been done, or is being done, or is, or is 
to be done, then that word is a verb. 

Thus, when we say that anything 
is " an in^sult," that word is a noun, 
and is accented on the first syllable ; 
but when we say he did it " to insulf 
another person," the word insult^ im- 
plies acting, and becomes a verb, and 
should be accented on the last sylla- 
ble. The effect is, that, in speaking, 
you should employ a different pronun- 
ciation in the use of the same word, 
when uttering such sentences as these : 
— "What an in^sultl" "Do you 
mean to insult^ me?" In the first 
instance you would lay the stress of 
voice upon the in^, and in the latter 
case upon the sulV. 

We will now give a List of 
nearly all the words that are liable to 
this variation : 



Ab^ject 

Ab^sent 

Ab^stract 

Ac'cent 

AFfix 

As^'sign 

At^tribute 

Aug^ment 

Bom^bard 

CoFleague 

CJol^ect 

Com^pact 

Com^plot 

Com^pound 

Com'press 

Con^cert 

Con'crete 

Con^duct 

Con^fect 

Con 'fine 

Con'flict 



To abject^ 
To absent^ 
To abstract^ 
To accent^ 
To affix^ 
To assign'' 
To attribute^ 
To augment^ 
To bombard^ 
To colleague^ 
To collect'' 
To compacf 
To complot^ 
To compound^ 
To compress^ 
To concert 
To concrete'' 
To conducf 
To confect^ 
To confine'' 
To conflict' 



Con''serve 

Con 'sort 

Con'test 

Con'text 

Con'tract 

Con'trast 

Con'verse 

Con'vert 

Con'vict 

Con'voy 

Des'cant 

Des'ert 

De'tail 

Di'gest 

Dis'cord 

Dis'eount 

Es'cort 

Es'say 

Ex'ile 

Ex'port 

Ex'tract 

Fer'ment 

Fore'taste 

Fre'quent 

Im'part 

Im'port 

Im'press 

In'cense 

In'crease 

In'lay 

In'sult 

Ob'ject 

Per'fume 

Per'mit 

Pre'fix 

Pre'mise 

Pre'sage 

Pres'ent 

Prod'uce 

Proj'ect 

Protest 

Keb'el 

Rec'ord 

Eef'use 

Ee'tail 

Sub'ject 

Sur'vey 

Tor'ment 

Tra'ject 

Trans'fer 

Trans'port 



To conserve' 
To consorf 
To contest'' 
To context' 
To contract' 
To contrast' 
To converse' 
To convert' 
To convict' 
To convoy' 
To descant' 
To desert' 
To detail' 
To digest' 
To discord' 
To discount' 
To escort' 
To essay' 
To exile' 
To export' 
To extract' 
To ferment' 
To foretaste' 
To frequent' 
To impart' 
To import' 
To impress' 
To incense' 
To increase' 
To inlay' 
To insult' 
To object' 
To perfume' 
To permit' 
To prefix' 
To premise' 
To presage' 
To present' 
To produce' 
To project' 
To protest' 
To rebel' 
To record' 
To refuse' 
To retail' 
To subject' 
To survey' 
To torment' 
To traject' 
To transfer' 
To transport' 



Cement' is an exception to the 
above rule, and should always be ac 



316 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



cented on the last syllable. So also 
the word Consols^. 

PROVINCIALISTS who desire to 
correct the defects of their utterance, 
cannot do better than to exercise them- 
selves frequently upon those words 
respecting which they have been in 
error. 

Hints for the Correction of 
THE Irish Brogue. — An Irishman 
wishing to throw off the brogue of his 
mother country should avoid hurling 
out his words with a superfluous quan- 
tity of breath. It is not broadher and 
undher that he should say, but the d, 
and every other consonant, should be 
neatly delivered by the tongue, with as 
little riot, clattering,or breathing as pos- 
sible. Next, let him drop the roughness 
or rolling of the r in all places but the 
beginning of syllables ; he must not 
8ay stor-rum and far-nim, but let the 
word be heard in one smooth syllable. 
He should exercise himself until he 
can convert plaze into please, plinty 
into plenty, Jasus into Jesus, and so on. 
He should modulate his sentences, so 
as to avoid directing his accent all in 
one manner — from the acute to the 
grave. Keeping his ear on the watch 
for good examples, and exercising him- 
self frequently upon them, he may be- 
come master of a greatly improved 
utterance. 

Hints for Correcting the 
Scotch Brogue. — The same authority 
remarks, that as an Irishman uses the 
closing accent of the voice too much, 
*o a Scotchman has the contrary habit, 
and is continually drawling his tones 
from the grave to the acute, with an 
effect which, to southern ears, is sus- 
pensive in character. The smooth 
guttural r is as little heard in Scotland 
a* in Ireland, the trilled r taking its 
plaoe. The substitution of the former 
iz stead of the latter must be a matter 
of practice. The peculiar sound of the 
u, wliich in the north so often borders 
on the French u, must be compared 
with the several sounds of the letter as 
they are heard in the south ; ar.d the 
long quality which a Scotchman is apt 
w give to the vowels that ought to be 



essentially short, must be clipped. In 
fact, oral observation and lingual ex- 
ercise are the only sure means to the 
end ; so that a Scotchman going to a 
well for a bucket of water, and finding 
a countryman bathing therein, would 
exclaim, " Hey, Colin, dinna ye ken 
the watter's for drink, and nae for 
bathin' ? " 

Of Provincial Brogues it is 
scarcely necessary to say much, as the 
foregoing advice applies to them. 

Rules of Pronunciation. — C be- 
fore a, 0, and u, and in some other 
situations, is a close articulation, like 
k. Before e, i, and y, c is precisely 
equivalent to s in same, this; as in 
cedar, civil, cypress, capacity. 

E final indicates that the preced- 
ing vowel is long ; as in hate, mete, 
sire, robe, lyre, abate, recede, invite, 
remote, intrude. 

E final indicates that c preced- 
ing has the sound of s ; as in lace, 
lance; and that g preceding has the 
sound oij, as in charge, page, challenge. 

E final, in proper English words, 
never forms a syllable, and in the 
most-used words, in the terminating 
unaccented syllable it is silent. Thus, 
motive, genuine, examine, juvenile, rep- 
tile, granite, are pronounced motiv, 
genuin, examin, juvenil, reptil, granit. 

E final, in a few words of foreign 
origin, forms a syllable ; as syncope, 
simile. 

E final is silent after / in the 
following terminations, — ble, cle, die, 
fle, gle, kle, pie, tie, zle ; as in able, 
manacle, cradle, ruffle, mangle, tninkle, 
supple, rattle, puzzle, which are pro- 
nounced a''bl, man^acl, cra^dl, ruffl, 
mar/gl, wrin^kl, sup^pl, puz^zl. 

E is usually silent in the termina- 
tion en; as in token, broken; pro- 
nounced tokn, brokn. 

OUS, in the termination of adjectives 
and their derivations, is pronounced 
us ; as in gracious, pious, pompously. 

CE, CI, TI, before a vowel, have the 
sound of sh; as in cetaceous, gracious, 
motion, partial, ingratiate; pronounced 
cetashus, grashus, moshon, parshal, iw 
yrashiate. 



PRONUNCIATION OF WORDS. 



317 



TI, after a consonant, have the 
sound of ch ; as in Christian, bastion ; 
pronounced Chrischan, baschan. 

SI, after an accented vowel, are pro- 
nounced like zh ; as in Ephesian, con- 
fusion ; pronounced Ephezhan, eonfu- 
zhan. 

When CI or TI precede similar 
combinations, as in pronunctaifion, ne- 
gotiation, they may be pronounced ce 
instead of she, to prevent a repetition 
of the latter syllable ; as pronuncea- 
shon instead of pronunsheashon. 

GH, both in the middle and at the 
end of words, are silent ; as in caught, 
bought, fright, nigh, sigh ; pronounced 
eaut, baut, frite, ni, si. In the follow- 
ing exceptions, however, gh are pro- 
nounced as /; cough, chough, dough, 
enough, laugh, rough, slough, tough, 
trough. 

When WH begin a word, the aspi- 
rate h precedes w in pronunciation ; 
as in what, whiff, whale ; pronounced 
hwat, hwiff, hwale, w having precisely 
the sound of oo, French ou. In the 
following words w is silent: who, 
whom, whose, whoop, wJiole. 

H after r has no sound or use ; as 
in rlieum, rhyme; pronounced reww, rime. 

H should be sounded in the middle 
of words ; as in foreAead, ab/ior, be- 
Aold, exAaust, inAabit, un/iorse. 

H should always be sounded except 
in the following words : heir, herb, 
honest, honor, hospital, hostler, hour, 
humor, and humble; and all their 
derivatives, such as humorously, de- 
rived from humor. 

K and G are silent before n, as know, 
gnaw ; pronounced no, naw. 

W before r is silent ; as in wring, 
wreath ; pronounced ring, reath. 

B after m is silent ; as in dumb, 
numb ; pronounced dum, num. 

L before k is silent ; as in balk, 
walk, talk; pronounced bauk, wauk, 
tauk. 

PH have the sound off; as in phil- 
osophy ; i-)r ononnced Jilosophy. 

NG has two sounds ; one as in singer, 
the other as \nfin-ger. 

N after m, and closing a syllable, is 
Bilent ; as in hymn, condemn. 



P before s and t is mute; as in psalm, 
pseudo, ptarmigan; jjronounced sam, 
sudo, tarmigan. 

E. has two sounds, one strong and 
vibrating, as at the beginning of words 
and syllables, such as robber, reckon, 
error ; the other as at the terminations 
of words, or when it is succeeded by a 
consonant, &s farmer, morn. 

Before the letter R there is a slight 
sound of e between the vowel and the 
consonant. Thus, bare, parent, appa- 
rent, mere, mire, more, pure, pyre, are 
pronounced nearly baer, paerent, appa- 
erent, me-er, mier, moer, puer, pyer. 
This pronunciation proceeds from the 
peculiar articulation r, and it occasions 
a slight change of the sound of a, 
which can only be learned by the 
ear. 

There are other rules of pronuncia- 
tion affecting the combinations of 
vowels, etc. ; but as they are more 
difficult to describe, and as they do not 
relate to errors which are commonly 
prevalent, we shall content ourselves 
with giving examples of them in the 
following list of words. 

Words with their Pronunciations 

Again, n-gen, not as spelled. 

Alien, ale-yen, not a.-lye-n. 

Antipodes, an-tip-o-dees. 

Apostle, without the i. 

Arch, artch in compounds of our own 
language, as in archbishop, archduke; 
but ark in words derived from the 
Greek, as archaic, ar-^a-ik ; archae- 
ology, ar-ke-o^o-gy ; archangel, ark- 
airt-gel; archetype, ar-ke-type; archi- 
episcopal, ar-ke-e-^is-co-pal ; archi- 
pelago, ar-ke-joe^a-go ; archives, ar- 
kivz, etc. 

Asia, asha. 

Asparagus, not asparagrass. 

Awkward, awk-wwro?, not a,vfk-urd. 

Bade, bad. 

Because, he-cawz, not be-cos. 

Been, bin. 

Beloved, as a verb, he-luvd ; as an ad- 
jective, he-luv-ed. Blessed, cursed, 
etc., are subject to the same rule. 

Beneath, with the th in breath, not 
with the th in breathe. 



318 



YOU ask! — I'll tell. 



Biog^raphy, as spelled, not beography. 

Buoy, bwoy, not boy. 

By and my, in conversation, be, me. 
When emphatic, and in poetic read- 
ing, by and my. 

CanaK, as spelled, not ca-nel. 

Caprice, capreece. 

Catch, as spelled, not ketch. 

Chaos, ka-oss. 

Charlatan, sharlatan. 

Chasm, kazm. 

Chasten, chasn. 

Chivalry, shivalry. 

Chemistry, Hm-is-trey. 

Choir, kwire. 

Clerk, klark. 

Combat, kum-h&t. 

Conduit, kun-dit. 

Corps, core ; plural, cores. 

Covetous, CMv-e-tus, not cuv-e-chus. 

Courteous, cur^yus. 

Courtesy (politeness), cwr-te-sey. 

Courtesy (a lowering of the body), curt- 
sey. 

Cresses, as spelled, not creeses. 

Cu'riosity, cu-re-os-e-ty, not curosity. 

Cushion, coosh-un, not coosh-in. 

Daunt, dant, not dawnt. 

Design and desist have the sound of a, 
not of 2. 

Desire should have the sound of 2. 

Despatch, despatch, not (^is-patch. 

Dew, due, not doo. 

Diamond, as spelled, not di-mond. 

Diploma, de-jo^o-ma, not dip-\o-ma. 

Diplomacy, de-plo-macy, not dip-lo- 
ma-cy. 

Direct, de-reckt, not rfi-rect. 

Divers (several), rfi-verz; but diverse 
(different), rfi-verse. 

Dome, as spelled, not doom. 

Drouglit, drowt, not drawt. 

Duke, as spelled, not dook. 

Dycasty, dt/n-as-te, not dy-nas-ty. 

Edict, e-dickt, not erf-ickt. 

E'en and e'er, een and air. 

Egotism, ^(/-o-tizm, not e-go-tism. 

Either, e-ther, not i-ther. 

Engine, era-jin, not in-jin. 

Ensign, en-sign; ensigncy, «»-sin-cey. 

Epistle, without the t. 

Epitome, e-pit-o-me. 

Epoch, ep-ock, not e-pock. 

Equinox, cg-kwe-nox, not e-qui-nox. 



Europe, ?7-rope, not Z7-rup. "Enro-pe- 

an, not Eu-ro-pean. 
Every, ev-er-ey, not ev-ry. 
Executor, egz-ec-utor, not with the 

sound of a;. 
Extraordinary, ex-<ror-de-nar-ey, not 

ex-tra-ordinary, nor extrornarey. 
February, as spelled, not Febuary. 
Finance, fe-nance, not _/f-nance. 
Foundling, as spelled, not/onrf-ling. 
Garden, ^rar-dn, not gar-den, nor gard- 

ing. 
Gauntlet, ^^anMet, not gawnt-let. 
Geography, as spelled, not yo^rraphy, 

nor gehography. 
Geometry, as spelled, not^'o»i-etry. 
Haunt, hant, not hawnt. 
Height, hite, not highth. 
Heinous, hay-nus, not Aee-nus. 
Highland, Ai-land, not Aee-land. 
Horizon, ho-n'-zn, not Aor-i-zon. 
Housewife, AM2-wif. 
Hymeneal, hy-men-e-al, not hy-menal. 
Instead, in-sted, not instid. 
Isolate, i2-o-late, not i-zo-late, nor i»-o- 

late. 
Jalap, jal-&Tp, not jolup. 
January, as spelled, not Jenuary, nor 

Janewary. 
Leave, as spelled, not leaf. 
Legend, ^eii-gend, not ^e-gend. 
Lieutenant, lev-ten-a.nt, not leu-<en-ant. 
Many, men-ney, not man-ny. 
Marchioness, mar - shun - ess, not aa 

spelled. 
Massacre, wios-sa-cur, not mas-sa-cre. 
Mattress, as spelled, not Tna^trass. 
Matron, ??ia-trun, not mat-ron. 
Medicine, med-e-cin, not med-cin. 
Minute (sixty seconds), win-it. 
Minute (small), mi-nute. 
Miscellany, wt's-cellany, not mis-ce^ 

lany. 
Mischievous, ww-chiv-us, not mia- 

cheev-ua. 
Ne'er, for never, nare. 
Neighborhood, nay-bur-hood, not nay 

bur-wood. 
Nephew, 7iev-u, not ne/-u. 
New, nQ, not noo. 

Notable (worthy of notice), no-ta-bL 
Notable (thrifty), not-a,-h\. 
Oblige, as spelled, not obleege. 
Oblique, ob-/ee^, not o-blike. 



PRONUNCIATION OF WORDS. 



319 



Odorous, o-dur-us, not od-ur-us. 

Of, ov, except when compounded 

with there, here, and where, which 

should be pronounced here-of, there- 

of, and where-o/. 
OflF, of, not awf. 
Organization, or-gan-e-«a-shun, not or- 

ga-ni-za-shun. 
Ostrich, 08-tritch, not os-tridge. 
Pageant, j!3a<:?-j ant, not jt>a-jant. 
Parent, ^are-ent notpar-ent 
Partisan, par-te-zan, not par-te-3an, 

nor par-ti-zan. 
Patent, pat-ent, not ^a-tent. 
Physiognomy, not physionnomy. 
Pincers, pin-cerz, not pinch-erz. 
Plaintiff, as spelled, not plan-tiff. 
Pour, pore, not so as to rhyme with our. 
Precedent (an example), ^reas-e-dent ; 

pre-ce-dent is the pronunciation of 

the adjective. 
Prologue, prol-og, not pro-loge. 
Quadrille, ka-dril, not quod-ril. 
Quay, key, not as spelled. 
Radish, as spelled, not red-ish. 
Raillery, ral-ler-ey, not as spelled. 
Rather, not raather. 
Resort, rezort. 
Resound, rezound. 
Respite, res-pit not as spelled. 
Rout (a party ; and to rout) should be 

pronounced rowt. Route (a road),root. 
Saunter, san-ter, not sawnter. 
Sausage, saw-sage not sos-sidge, nor 

sas-sage. 
Schedule, shed-ule, not shed-die. 
Seamstress, sem-stress. 
Sewer, soor, not shore nor shure. 
Shire, sheer, not as spelled. 
Shone, shon, not shun, nor as spelled. 
Soldier, so/e-jer. 

Solecism, so^e-cizm, not ao-le-cizm 
Soot, as spelled, not sut. 
Sovereign, sov-er-in, not suv-er-in. 
Specious, spe-shus, not spesh-us. 
Stomacher, s^ww-a-cher. 
Stone (weight), as spelled, not stun. 
Synod, syn-ud, not sy-nod. 
Tenure, ien-ure, not ^e-nure. 
Tenet, fen-et, not ^e-net. 
Than, as spelled, not thun. 
Tremor, trem-ur, not tre-mor. 
Twelfth, should have the th sounded. 
Umbrella, as spelled, not um-ber-el-la. 



Vase, vaze, not vawze. 

Was, woz, not wuz. 

Weary, weer-ej not wary. 

Were, wer, not ware. 

Wont, wunt, not as spelled. 

Wrath, rawth, not rath ; as an adjec- 
tive it is spelled wroth, and pro- 
nounced with the vowel sound 
shorter, as wrath-ful, etc. 

Yacht, yot, not yat. 

Yeast, as spelled, not yest. 

Zenith, zen-iih, not ze-niih. 

Zodiac, 20-de-ak. 

Zoology should have both o's sounded, 
as zo-o^o-gy, not 200-lo-gy. 
Pronounce — 

— ace, not iss, as furnace, not furnm\ 

— age, not idge, as cabbage, courage, 
postage, village. 

— ain, ane, not in, as certain, certawe, 
not certin. 

— ate, not it, as moderate, not moderi7. 

— ct, not c, as aspect, not aspec; sub- 
ject, not subjec. 

— ed, not id, or ud, as wicked, not 
wickid, or wicked. 

— el, not 1, model, not modi ; novel, not 
novl. 

— en, not n, as sudden, not suddn. — 
Burden, burthen, garden, lengthen, 
seven, strengthen, often, and a few 
others, have the e silent. 

— ence, not unce, as influence, not in- 
flu-ttnce, 

-^s, not is, as pleases, not pleasis. 

— ^ile should be pronounced il, as 
fertil, not fertzYe, in all words except 
chamomile [cam), exile, gentile, in- 
fantile, reconcile, and senile, which 
should be pronounced ile. 

— in, not n, as Latin, not Latn. 

— nd, not n, as husband, not husba« ; 
thousand, not thousan. 

— ness, not niss, as carefulness, not care- 
fulness. 

— ng, not n, as singing, not singin ; 
speaking, not speakin. 

— ngth, not nth, as stren^fth, not strenth. 

— son, the should be silent ; as in 
treason, tre-zn, not tre-son. 

— tal, not tie, as capital, not capi^fe ,• 
metal, not mettle; mortal, not moi- 
tle ; periodical, not periodic/e. 

— xt, not X, as ne.f^, not near. 



320 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



H OR NO H? That is the Ques- 
tion. — Few things point so directly to 
the want of cultivation as the misuse of 
the letter h by persons in conversation. 
We hesitate to assert that this common 
defect in speaking indicates the absence 
of education — for, to our surprise, we 
have heard even educated persons fre- 
quently commit this common and vul- 
gar error. 

Memorandum on the Use of the Letter H. 

Pronounce — Herb, 'Erb. 

" Heir, 'Eir. 

" Honesty, 'Onesty. 

" Honor, 'Onor. 

" Hospital, 'Ospital. 

" Hostler, 'Ostler. 

" Hour, 'Our. 

" Humor, 'Timor. 

" Humble, 'Umble. 

" Humility, 'Umility. 

In all other cases the H is to be sounded 
when it begins a word. 

Mem. — Be careful to sound the h 
slightly in such words as wAere, wAen, 
wAat, wAy, — don't say were, wen, wat, 

COMPOSITION. — If you would 
write to any purpose, you must be per- 
fectly free fi-om without, in the first place, 
and yet more free from within. Give 
yourself the natural rein ; think on no 
pattern, no patron, no paper, no press, 
no public: think on nothing, but follow 
your own impulses. Give yourself as 
you are, what you are, and how you see 
it Every man sees with his own eyes, 
or does not see at all. This is incontro- 
vertibly true. Bring out what you 
have. If you have nothing, be an 
honest beggar rather than a respect- 
able thief. Great care and attention 
should be devoted to epistolary corre- 
spondence, as nothing exhibits want 
of taste and judgment so much as a 
slovenly letter. It is recognized as a 
rule that all letters should be prepaid. 
The following hints may be worthy of 
attention : 

Always put a Stamp on your en- 
velope, at the top of the right-band 
corner. 



Let the Directions be written 
very plain ; this will save the postman 
trouble, and facilitate business by pre- 
venting mistakes. 

At the Head of your Letter, 
in the right-hand corner, put your 
address in full, with the day of the 
month underneath ; do not omit this, 
though you may be writing to your 
most intimate friend three or four 
times a day. 

What you have to say in your 
Letter, say as plainly as possible, as 
if you were speaking : this is the best 
rule. Do not revert three or ibur times 
to one circumstance, but finish as you 
go on. 

Let ^our Signature be written 
as plainly as possible (many mistakes 
will be avoided, especially in writing to 
strangers), and without any flourishes, 
as these do not add in any way to the 
harmony of your letter. We have seen 
signatures that have been almost im- 
possible to decipher, being a mere mass 
of strokes, without any form to indicate 
letters. This is done chiefly by the 
ignorant, and would lead one to sup- 
pose that they were ashamed of sign- 
ing what they had written. 

Do not Cross your Letters: 
surely paper is cheap enough now to 
admit of your using an extra half- 
sheet, in case of necessity. (This prac- 
tice is chiefly prevalent among young 
ladies.) 

If you Write to a Stranger for 
information, or on your own business, 
be sure to send a stamped envelope, 
with your address plainly written ; 
this w'ill not fail to procure you an 
answer. 

If you are not a Good Writer 
it is advisable to use the best ink, pa- 
per, and ])ens, as, though they may 
not alter the character of your hand- 
writing, yet they will assist to make 
your writiiisr look better. 

PUNCTUATION. — Punctuation 
teaches the method of placing Points, 
in written or printed matter, in such a 
manner as to indicate the pauses which 
would be made by the author if he 



COMPOSITION. 



321 



were communicating his thoughts 
orally instead of by written signs, 

Wkiting and Printing are substi- 
tutes for oral communication ; and cor- 
rect punctuation is essential to convey 
the meaning intended, and to give due 
force to such passages as the author 
may wish to impress upon the mind 
of the person to whom they are being 
communicated. 
The Points are as follows : 

The Comma , 

The Semicolon ; 

The Colon : 

The Period, or Full Point. 

The Apostrophe ' 

The Hyphen, or Conjoiner - 

The Note of Interrogation ? 

The Note of Exclamation ! 

The Parentheses ( ) 

The Asterisk, or Star * 
As these are all the points required in 
simple epistolary composition, we will 
confine our explanations to the rules 
which should govern the use of them. 
The Other Points, however, are 
the paragraph Tf ; the section | ; the 
dagger f ; the double dagger J ; the 
dash — ; the parallel || ; the bracket 
[ ] ; and some others. These, however, 
are quite unnecessary except for 
elaborate works, in which they are 
chiefly used for notes or marginal 
references. 

The Comma , denotes the shortest 
pause; the semicolon ; a little longer 
pause than the comma ; the colon : a 
little longer pause than the semicolon ; 
the period, or full point . the longest 
pause. 

The Relative Duration of these 
pauses is described as — 

While you count 

Comma One. 

Semicolon Two. 

Colon Three. 

Period Four. 

This, however, is not an infallible rule, 
because the duration of the pauses 
should be regulated by the degree of 
rapidity with which the matter is being 
read. In slow reading, the duration 
of the j)auses should be increased. 
The Other Points are rather iu- 
21 



dications of expression, and of mean- 
ing and connection, than of pauses, and 
therefore we will notice them sepa- 
rately. 

The Misplacing of even so slight 
a point, or pause, as the comma, will 
often alter the meaning of a sentence. 
The contract made for lighting the 
town of Liverpool, during the year 
1819, was thrown void by the misplac- 
ing of a comma in the advertisements, 
thus : — " Thelampsatpresentare about 
4050, and have in general two spouts 
each, composed of not less than twenty 
threads of cotton." The contractor 
would have proceeded to furnish each 
lamp with the said twenty threads, but 
this being but half the usual quantity, 
the commissioners discovered that the 
diiference arose from the comma fol- 
lowing instead of preceding the word 
each. The parties agreed to annul the 
contract, and a new one was ordered. 

The following Sentence shows 
how difficult it is to read without the 
aid of the points used as pauses : 

Death waits tiot for storm nor sunshine within 
a dwelling in one of the iijiper streets respectable 
in appearance and furnished with such conveni- 
ences as distinguish the habitations of those who 
rank among the liigher classes of society a man of 
middle age lay on his last bed niomently awaiting 
the final summons all that the most skillal medical 
attendance all that love warm as the glow that fires 
an angel's bosom could do had been done by day and 
night for many long weeks had ministering spirits 
such as a devoted wife and loving children are don* 
all within their power to ward off the blow but there 
he lay his raven liair smoothed ofl' from his noble 
brow his dark eyes lighted witli uunatui-ul bright- 
ness and contrasting strongly with the pallid hue 
which marked him as an expectant of the dreaded 
messenger. 

The same Sentence, properly 
pointed, and with capital letters placed 
after full points, according to the 
adopted rule, may be easily read and 
understood : 

Death waits not for storm nor sunshine. 
Within a dwelling in one of the upper streets, re- 
spectable in appearance, and furnished with such 
conveniences as distinguish the habitations of 
those who rank among the higher classes of soci- 
ety, a man of middle age lay on his last beii. -no- 
mently awMfjig the final summons. All that 
the most skilful medical attendance — all that 
love, warm as the glow that fires an angel's bosom, 
co-Id do, had been done; by day and night, for 
many long weeks. h;id ministering spirits, such as 
a devoted wife and loving children are. done all 
within their power to ward off the blow. But 



322 



YOU ask! — t'lt. tell! 



tlifie he lay, his ravon hair smootliod off from hia 
nol>l« lirow, Ilia dnrk eyes liglited witli unoatural 
brixhtiiess, and coritrastlng strongly with the pal- 
lid hue which marked him as aii expectant of the 
dread messctiger. 

The Apostrophe ' is used to indi- 
cate the combining of two words in 
one, — as John's book, instead of 
John, his book ; or to show the omis- 
sion of parts of words, as Glo'ster, for 
Gloucester, tlu)' for though. These 
abbreviations should be avoided as 
much Jis possible. Cobbett says the 
apostrophe " ought to be called the 
mark of laziness and vulgarity." The 
first use, however, of which we give an 
example, is a necessary and proper one. 

The Hyphen, or conjoiner -, is used 
to unite words which, though they are 
separate and distinct, have so close a 
connection as almost to become one 
word, as water-rat, wind-mill, etc. It 
is also used in writing and printing, 
at the end of a line, to show where a 
word is divided and continued in the 
next line. Look down the ends of the 
lines in this column, and you will 
notice the hyphen in several places. 

The Note of Interrogation ? 
indicates that the sentence to which it 
is put asks a question ; as, " What 
is the meaning of that assertion? 
What am I to do?" 

The Note of Exclamation or of 
admiration ! indicates surprise, pleas- 
ure, or sorrow ; as, " Oh ! Ah ! Good- 
ness I Beautiful! I am astonished! 
Woe is me ! " 

Sometimes, when an expression of 
strong surprise or pleasure is intended, 
two notes of this character are em- 
ployed, thus ! ! 

The Parentheses ( ) are used to 
prevent confusion by the introduction 
to a sentence of a passage not necessary 
to the sense thereof. " I am going to 
meet Mr. Smith (though I am no ad- 
mirer of him) on Wednesday next." It 
is better, however, as a rule, not to 
employ parenthetical sentences. 

The Asterisk, or Star *, may be 
employed to refer from the text to a 
note of explanation at the foot of a 
column, or at the end of a letter. 
* ^ * Three stars are sometimes used 



to call particular attention to a para- 
graph. 

Hints upon Spelling.— The follow- 
ing rules will be found of great assist- 
ance in writing, because they relate to 
a class of words about the spelling of 
which doubt and hesitation are fre- 
quently felt : 

All words of one syllable ending in 
I, with a single vowel before it, h?.ve 
double I at the close ; as, 7nill, sell. 

All words of .one syllable ending in 
I, with a double vowel before it, have 
one I only at the close ; as 7nail, sail. 

Words of one syllable ending in I, 
when compounded, retain but one / 
each ; a.s, fulfil, skilful. 

Words of more than one syllable 
ending in I, have one /only at the closel; 
as, delightful, faithful ; except befall, 
downfall, recall, unwell, etc. 

All derivatives from words ending in 
I have one I only ; as, equality, from 
equal ; fulness, from full ; except they 
end in er or ly : as, mill, miller ; full, 
fully. 

AH participles in ing from verbs 
ending in e lose the e final : as, havt, 
having ; amuse, amusing ; unless they 
come from verbs ending in double e, 
and then they retain both : as see, see- 
ing ; agree, agreeing. 

All adverbs in ly, and nouns in ment 
retain the e final of the primitives : as, 
brave, bravely ; refine, refinement; except 
acknowledgment, judgment, jtc. 

All derivatives from words ending in 
er, retain the e before the r : as, refer, 
reference ; except hindrance, from hin 
der ; remembrance, from remember ; dis 
astrous, from disaster ; monstrous, from 
monster ; wondrous, from wonder ; cum- 
brous, from cumber, etc. 

Compound words, if both end not in 
I, retain their primitive parts entire : 
as, millstone, changeable, raceless; except 
always, also, deplorable, although, almost, 
admirable, etc. 

All one-syllablea ending in a conso- 
nant, with a single vowel before it, 
double that consonant in derivatives : 
as, sin, sinner; ship, shipping ; big, big- 
ger ; glad, gladder, etc. 

One-syllables ending in a consonant, 



CORRECT SPELLING. 



323 



with a double vowel before it, do not 
double the consonant in derivatives : 
as, sleep, sleepy ; troop, trooper. 

All words of more than one syllable 
ending in a single consonant, preceded 
by a single vowel, and accented on the 
last syllable, double that consonant in 
derivatives: as, commit, committee; 
compel, compelled; appal, appalling; 
distil, distiller. 

Nouns of one syllable ending in y, 
preceded by a consonant, change y into 
ie» in the plural ; and verbs ending in 



y, preceded by a consonant, change 
y into ies in the third person singular 
of the present tense, and into ied in 
the past tense and past participle : as, 
fly, flies ; I apply, he applies ; we reply, 
we replied, or have replied. If the y be 
preceded by a vowel, this rule is not 
applicable : as, key, keys ; I play, he 
plays ; we have enjoyed ourselves. 

Compound words, whose primitives 
end in y, change y into i: as, beauty, 
beautiful; lovely, loveliness. 



RULES OF POLITENESS. 

True Etiqttette is Simply Consideration for Others — Parties and 
Balls— Love, Courtship and Marriage— The Toilet. 



Etiquette is the Unwritten Laws 
of Society. — Introduction to So- 
ciety. — Avoid all extravagance and 
mannerism, and be not over - timid 
at the outset. Be discreet and spar- 
ing of your words. Awkwardness is 
a great misfortune, but it is not an 
unpardonable fault. To deserve the 
reputation of moving in good society, 
something more is requisite than the 
avoidance of blunt rudeness. .Strictly 
keep to your engagements. Punctu- 
ality is the essence of politeness. 

The Toilet. — Too much attention 
cannot be paid to the arrangements of 
the toilet. A man is often judged by 
his appearance, and seldom incor- 
rectly. A neat exterior, equally free 
from extravagance and poverty, almost 
always proclaims a right-minded man. 
To dress appropriately, and with good 
taste, is to respect yourself and others. 
A gentleman walking, should always 
wear gloves, this being one of the 
characteristics of good breeding. Fine 
linen, and a good hat, gloves, and 
boots, are evidences of the highest 
taste in dress. 

Visiting Dress, — A black coat 
and trousers are indispensable for a 
visit of ceremony, an entertainment, 
or a ball. The white or black waist- 
coat is equally proper in these cases. 

Officers' Dress. — Upon public 
and state occasions officers should ap- 
pear in uniform. 

Ladies' Dress. — Ladies' dresses 
should be chosen so as to produce an 
agreeable harmony. Never put on a 
dark-colored bonnet with a light spring 
costume. Avoid uniting colors which 
324 



will suggest an epigram; such as a 
straw-colored dress with agreen bonnet. 

Excess of Lace and Flowers. — 
Whatever be your style of face, avoid 
an exce.ss of lace, and let flowers be 
few and choice. 

Appropriateness of Ornaments, 
— In a married women a richer style 
of ornament is admissible. Co8tly 
elegance for her — for the young girl, a 
Htyle of modest simplicity. 

Simplicity and Grace, — The 
most elegant dress loses its character 
if it is not worn with grace. Young 
girls have often an air of con.straint, 
and their dress seems to partake of 
their want of ease. In speaking of her 
toilet, a woman should not convey the 
idea that her whole skill consists in ad- 
justing tastefully some trifling orna- 
ments. A simple style of dress is an 
indication of modesty. 

Cleanliness. — The hands should re- 
ceive especial attention. They are the 
outward signs of general cleanliness. 
The same may be said of the face, 
the neck, the ears, and the teeth. 
The cleanliness of the system gener- 
ally, and of bodily apparel, pertains 
to health, and is treated of under this 
head. 

The Handkerchief. — There is 
considerable art in using this accessory 
of dress and comfort. Avoid extreme 
patterns, styles, and colors. Never be 
without a handkerchief. Hold it freely 
in the hand, and do not roll it into a 
ball. Hold it by the centre, and let 
the corners form a fan-like expansion. 
Avoid using it too much. With some 
persons the habit becomes troublesome 



HINTS ON ETIQUETTE. 



325 



Dinner Table. — It is taken for 
granted that every place at a friend'a 
table is equally a place of honor, and 
equally agreeable. It is therefore be- 
coming the custom for the guests to 
sit in the order they enter the room. 
Ladies sit on the right of gentlemen. 
When seated, take off your gloves, 
place your table napkin across your 
knees, and the bread it contains on the 
left side of your plate. While thus en- 
gaged, converse with the lady sitting 
beside you. Do not talk of the dinner 
appointments, and never discuss the 
merits of the food, or anything set be- 
fore you. 

Soup is served first — one lidle to 
each plate. Eat it from the side of 
your spoon. Pip's lesson in etiquette, 
from Dickens' " Great Expectations," 
is concise and amusing. We quote : 

It is not the custom to put tha knife in thfl 
mouth, for fear of accident; and while the fork ia 
reserved for that use, it is not put further in than 
necessary. Also, the spoon is not generally used 
overhand, but under. This has two advantages — 
you get at your mouth better (which after all is 
the object), and you save a good deal of the atti- 
tude of opening oysters, on the part of the right 
elbow. 

Do not make a noise with your mouth 
in eating soup ; never scrape up the last 
drop, or tilt the plate to get at it, and 
do not send twice for either soup or fish. 

Visits and Presentations. — 
Friendly calls should be made in the 
forenoon, and require neatness, with- 
out costliness of dress. 

Calls to give invitations to dinner- 
parties, or balls, should be very short, 
and should be paid in the afternoon. 

Visits of condolence require a grave 
style of dress. 

A formal visit should never be made 
before noon. If a second visitor is 
announced, it will be proper for you 
to retire, unless you are very intimate 
both with the host and the visitor an- 
nounced; unless, indeed, the host 
express a wish for you to remain. 

Visits after balls or parties should 
be made within a month. 

In the latter, it is customary to en- 
close your card in an envelope, bearing 
the address outside. This may be 



sent by post, if you reside at a dis- 
tance. 

But, if living in the neighborhood, 
it is polite to send your servant, or to 
call. In the latter case a corner should 
be turned down. 

Scrape your shoes and use the mat. 
Never appear in a drawing-room with 
mud on your boots. 

When a new visitor enters a drawing- 
room, if it be a gentleman, the ladies 
bow slightly; if a lady, the guests 
rise. 

Hold your hat in your hand, unless 
requested to place it down. Then lay 
it beside you. 

The last arrival in a drawing-room 
takes a seat left vacant near the mis- 
tress of the house. 

A lady is not required to rise to 
receive a gentleman, nor to accompany 
him to the door. 

When your visitor retires, ring the 
bell for the servant. You may then 
accompany your guest as far towards 
the door as the circumstances of yoir 
friendship seem to demand. 

Request the servant, during the visit 
of guests, to be ready to attend to the 
door the moment the bell rings. 

When you introduce a person, pro- 
nounce the name distinctly, and say 
whatever you can to make the intro- 
duction agreeable. Such as "an old 
and valued friend," a "schoolfellow 
of mine," " an old acquaintance of our 
family." 

Never stare about you in a room as 
if you were taking stock. 

The gloves should not be removed 
during a visit. 

Be hearty in your reception of 
guests ; and where you see much diflS- 
dence, assist the stranger to throw it 
off. 

A lady does not put her address on 
her visiting card. 

Do not imagine that to be expen- 
sively or extravagantly dressed, is to 
be well dressed. Simplicity is always 
elegant, and good taste can lend a grace 
to dress which no outlay of money on 
its materials can purchase. The most 
perfect cleanliness is the first essential. 



326 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



A lady's hair should be always well 
arranged in the style she chooses to 
wear it — which had better be one of 
those sanctioned by the fashion of the 
day. The teeth should be attended to 
carefully. The first things a lady 
ought to think about are her gloves 
and shoes ; gloves should fit well and 
be unsoiled, and should harmonize in 
color with the dress, but soft neutral 
tints will suit any dress. Her boots 
should be well made, large enough for 
comfort, and always thick enough to 
keep the feet dry and warm. 

Ladies are not obliged to consider 
their ball-partners as acquaintances, 
unless they please. 

It is the lady's place to bow first to 
the gentleman. 

To answer a letter promptly is a 
civility, and in some cases a kindness. 

Invitations ought to receive an im- 
mediate reply. 

At dinner, the gentleman sits at the 
right hand of the lady. 

You should begin, or appear to 
begin, to eat as soon as it is put be- 
fore you. 

Never by any chance put a knife 
near your mouth. 

Do not bite your bread; the rule 
about eating it is this: 

(Jut it at breakfast, when you gen- 
erally take a thick piece, and butter it 
yourself. 

Break it at dinner. 

Bite it at tea, when it is in thin slices. 

Eat your soup from the side of the 
spoon, not take it from the point ; be- 
ware of tasting it while too hot, or of 
swallowing it fast enough to make you 
cough. 

Conversation is supposed to belong 
especially to the dinner table. A del- 
icate perception of what may wound 
the feelings of others is essential here — 
" Do unto others as you would have 
them do unto you." Do not say to a 
friend whose complexion is of too 
deep a red, " How flushed your face 
is I " or to a stout lady, " How warm 
you look 1 " 

Never talk about yourself if you can 
help it, nor about your own affairs. 



Never introduce religious arguments 
in society ; if the subject is forced, 
avow your opinions, moderately, but 
decline anything like a defence of 
them ; it is in better taste not to argue 
on any subject. 

Do not sit stupidly silent ; do your 
best to be agreeable. Talk as well as 
you can, and at least try to appear 
amused. 

But silence is preferable to talking 
too much. 

Always look at people when you 
speak to them. 

It is rude to speak in whispers, and 
offensive to take a person aside to 
whisper to them. 

Slang phrases (even those of the 
drawing-room) must be avoided. 

Give your own opinion of people if 
you choose, but do not repeat the opin- 
ions of others. 

Vary your toilet sufficiently that 
idlers and others may not make your 
dress the description of your person. 

Dress plainly for walking in the 
street. To wear a bonnet fit for a car- 
riage, when not in one, or to walk 
through the dust or mud clothed in 
satin or lace, is the extreme of bad 
taste. 

Walking. — Endeavor to acquire 
an elegant walk. Hold yourself erect 
without stiffness. Walk noiselessly in 
the house and lightly in the street 
Do not turn your feet out too much, it 
is as bad a fault as to turn them in- 
wards, and causes an unseemly shak- 
ing of the garments. 

Never look behind you in the street, 
nor about you so as to attract atten- 
tion. Do not talk or laugh loud on 
the street, but pursue a quiet manner, 
and a smooth, graceful walk. 

A lady shakes hands with gentle- 
men who are friends or intimate ac- 
quaintances, but she must do so gently, 
without vehemence of action. 

A young lady rather gives her own 
hand than shakes that of a gentleman. 

Never allow a gentleman to pay for 
your admission into any theatre, or 
public exhibition, unless he is a re6»« 
tive, or particular Jriend, 



HINTS ON ETIQUETTE, 



527 



In the present day, when the distinc- 
tions of rank are becoming constantly 
less marked, and the circles of good 
society are so constantly receiving into 
themselves the men who have risen 
from the cottage or the workshop, a 
knowledge of these social laws be- 
comes important for his wife and 
daughters. Society has its "gram- 
mar," as language has ; and the rules 
of that grammar miist be learnt, either 
orally or from reading. To assist in 
this, the Hints on Etiquette have been 
introduced here, but the foundation of 
all good breeding lies in Christianity 
itself, for society requires "love, joy, 
peace, long suffering, gentleness, good- 
ness," " and all things that be lovely." 

If self be put out of sight, and kind- 
ness, courtesy, and thought for others 
take its place, a very slight training in 
mere etiquette is all that is requii^ed to 
make a well-bred lady. 

A Gentleman. — Moderation, de- 
corum, and neatness distinguish the 
gentleman ; he is at all times affable, 
diffident, and studious to please. In- 
telligent and polite, his behavior is 
pleasant and graceful. When he enters 
the dwelling of an inferior, he endea- 
vors to hide, if possible, the difference 
between their ranks in life ; ever will- 
ing to assist those around him, he is 
neither unkind, haughty, nor over- 
bearing. In the mansions of the rich, 
the correctness of his mind induces 
him to bend to etiquette, but not to 
stoop to adulation ; correct principle 
cautions him to avoid the gaming- 
table, inebriety, or any other foible 
that could occasion him self-reproach. 
Gratified with the pleasures of reflec- 
tion, he rejoices to see the gaieties of 
society, and is fastidious upon no point 
of little import. Appear only to be a 
gentleman, and its shadow will bring 
upon you contempt ; be a gentleman, 
and its honors will remain even after 
you are dead. 

Avoid Intermeddling with the 
affairs of others. This is a most com- 
mon fault. A number of people seldom 
meet but they begin discussing the 
affairs of some one who is absent. This 



is not only uncharitable, but positively 
unjust. It is equivalent to tryijig a 
cause in the absence of the person impli- 
cated. Even in the criminal code a 
prisoner is presumed to be innocent 
until he is found guilty. Society, how- 
ever, is less just, and passes judgment 
without hearing the defence. Depend 
upon it, as a certain rule, that the peoplr 
who unite with you in discussing the 
affairs of others will proceed to scan- 
dalize you in your absence. 

Be Consistent in the avowal of 
principles. Do not deny to-day that 
which you asserted yesterday. If you 
do, you will stultify yourself, and your 
opinions will soon be found to have no 
weight. You may fancy that you gain 
favor by subserviency ; but so far from 
gaining favor, you lose respect. 

Avoid Falsehood. — There can be 
found no higher virtue than the love 
of truth. The man who deceives others 
must himself become the victim of 
morbid distrust. Knowing the deceit 
of his own heart, and the falsehood 
of his own tongue, his eyes must be 
always filled with suspicion, and he 
must lose the greatest of all happi- 
ness — confidence in those who sur- 
round him. 

The Following Elements of 
manly character are worthy of fre- 
quent meditation : 

To be wise in his disputes. 

To be a lamb in his home. 

To be brave in battle and great in 
moral courage. 

To be discreet in public. 

To be a bard in his chair. 

To be a teacher in his household. 

To be a council in his nation. 

To be an arbitrator in his vi- 
cinity. 

To be a hermit in his church. 

To be a legislator in his country. 

To be conscientious in his actions. 

To be happy in his life. 

To be diligent in his calling. 

To be just in his dealing. 

That whatever he doeth be to the 
will of God. 

Avoid Manifestations of Ill- 
Temper. — Beason is given foi man'a 



323 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



guidance. Passion is the tempest by 
which reason is overthrown. Under 
the effects of passion, man's mind be- 
comes disordered, his face disfigured, 
his body deformed. A moment's pas- 
sion has frequently cut off a life's 
friendship, destroyed a life's hope, em- 
bittered a life's peace, and brought un- 
ending sorrow and disgrace. It is 
scarcely worth while to enter into a 
comparative analysis of ill - temper 
and passion ; they are alike discredi- 
table, alike injurious, and should stand 
equally condemned. 

Avoid Pride. — If you are hand- 
some, God made you so ; if you are 
learned, some one instructed you ; if 
you are rich, God gave you what you 
own. It is for others to perceive your 
goodness ; but you should be blind to 
your own merits. There can be no 
comfort in deeming yourself better 
than you really are : that is self-decep- 
tion. The best men throughout all 
history have been the most humble. 

Affectation is a Form of Pride. 
It is, in fact, pride made ridiculous 
and contemptible. Some one writing 
upon affectation has remarked as 
follows : 

If anything will sicken and disgust a man, it is 
the affected, mincing way in which some people 
choose to talk. It is perfectly nauseous. If these 
yoong jackanapes, who screw their words into all 
manner of diaholical shapes, could only feel how 
perfectly disRusting they were, it might induce 
them to drop it. With many, it soon becomes such 
H confirmed habit that they cannot again be taught 
to talk in a plain, straightforward, manly way. 
In the lower order of ladies' boarding-schools, and, 
indeed, too niucli everywhere, the same sickening, 
mincing tone is too often found. Do pray, good 
people, do talk in your natural tcme, if you don't 
wisli to be utterly ridiculous and contemptible. 

We have adopted the fore- 
going Paragraph because we ap- 
prove of some of its sentiments, but 
chiefly because it shows that persons 
who object to affectation may go to the 
other extreme — vulgarity. It is vulgar, 
we think, to call even the most affected 
people " Jackanapes, who screw their 
words into all manner of diabolical 
shapes." Avoid vulgarity in manner, 
in speech, and in correspondence. To 
conduct yourself vulgarly is to offer 
offence to those who are around you ; 



to bring upon yourself the conderana« 
tion of persons of good taste ; and to 
incur the penalty of exclusion from 
good society. Thus, cast among the 
vulgar, you become the victim of your 
own error. 

Avoid Swearing. An oath is 
but the wrath of a perturbed spirit. 
It is mean. A man of high moral 
standing would rather treat an offence 
with contempt than show his indigna- 
tion by an oath. It is vulgar: alto- 
gether too low for a decent man. It is 
cowardly: implying a fear either of 
not being believed or obeyed. It is 
ungentlemanly. A gentleman, according 
to Webster, is a genteel man — well- 
bred, refined. It is indecent : offensive 
to delicacy, and extremely unfit for 
human ears. It is foolish. " Want of 
decency is want of sense." It is abu.<tive 
— to the mind which conceives the 
oath, to the tongue which utters it, 
and to the person at whom it is aimed. 
It is venomous : showing a man's heart 
to be as a nest of vipers ; and every 
time he swears, one of them starts out 
from his head. It is contemptible : for- 
feiting the respect of all the wise and 
good. It is wicked: violating the 
Divine law, and provoking the dis- 
pleasure of Him who will not hold 
him guiltless who takes His name in 
vain. 

Be Honest. Not only because 
" honesty is the best policy," but be- 
cause it is a duty to God and to man. 
The heart that can be gratified by dis- 
honest gains ; the ambition that can 
be satisfied by dishonest means ; the 
mind that can be devoted to dis- 
honest purposes, must be of the worst 
order. 

Having laid down these Gen- 
eral Principles for the government 
of personal conduct, we will epitomize 
what we would still enforce: 

Avoid Idleness — it is the parent 
of many evils. Can you pray, " Give 
us this day our daily bread," and not 
hear the reply, " Do thou this day thv 
daily duty " ? 

Avoid telling Idle Tales, 
which is like firing arrows in the 



HINTS ON ETIQUETTE. 



323 



dark ; you know not into whose heart 
they may fall. 

Avoid Talking about yourself, 
praising your own works, and pro- 
claiming your own deeds. If they are 
good they will proclaim themselves ; 
if bad, the less you say of them the 
better. 

Avoid Envy, for it cannot benefit 
you, nor can it injure those against 
whom it is cherishea. 

Avoid Disputation for the mere 
sake of argument. The man who dis- 
putes obstinately, and in a bigoted 
spirit, is like the man who would stop 
the fountain from which he should 
drink. Earnest discussion is com- 
mendable ; but iiactious argument 
never yet produced a good result. 

Be Kind in Little Things. The 
true generosity of the heart is more 
displayed by deeds of minor kindness 
than by acts which may partake of 
ostentation. 

Be Polite. Politeness is the poetry 
of conduct, and, like poetry, it has 
many qualities. Let not your polite- 
ness be too florid, but of that gentle 
kind which indicates a refined nature. 

Be Sociable — avoid reserve in 
society. Remember that the social 
elements, like the air we breathe, are 
purified by motion. Thought illu- 
mines thought, and smiles win smiles. 

Be Punctual. One minute too 
late has lost many a golden opportu- 
nity. Besides which, the want of 
punctuality is an affron : offered to the 
person to whom your presence is due. 

The foregoing Remarks may be 
said to apply to the moral conduct, 
rather than to the details of personal 
manners. Great principles, however, 
suggest minor ones ; and hence, from 
the principles laid down, many hints 
upon personal behavior may be gath- 
ered. 

Prefer to Listen rather than to 
tolk. 

Behave, even in the Presence 
of your relations, as though you felt 
respect to be due to them. 

In Society never forget that 
you are but one of many. 



When you Visit a Friend, con- 
form to the rules of his household. 
Lean not upon his tables, nor rub 
your feet against his chairs. 

PrY not into Letters that are 
not your own. 

Pay unmistakable Respect to 
ladies everywhere. 

Beware of Foppery, and of silly 
flirtation. 

In Public Places be not too perti- 
nacious of your own rights, but find 
pleasure in making concessions. 

Speak Distinctly, look at the per- 
son to whom you speak, and when you 
have spoken, give him an opportunity 
to reply. 

Avoid Drunkenness as you would 
a curse ; and modify all appetites, es- 
pecially those that are acquired. 

Dress Well, but not superfluously ; 
be neither like a sloven nor like a 
stufied model. 

Keep away all Uncleanly Ap- 
pearances from the person. Let the 
nails, the teeth, and, in fact, the whole 
system receive salutary rather than 
studied care. But let these things re- 
ceive attention at the toilet — not else- 
where. 

Avoid Displaying Excess op 
Jewelry. Nothing looks more effemi 
nate upon a man. 

Every one of these Sugges- 
tions may be regarded as the centre 
of many others, which the earnest mind 
cannot fail to discover. 

A gentleman has perfect control of 
his temper, and will avoid arguments 
or points likely to lead to the expres- 
sion of strong feelings. If religious or 
political subjects are introduced, he 
will not discuss them with warmth. It 
is not to be inferred that he is there- 
fore a coward or a fool; but simply 
that, while conscious what is due to 
himself, he does not forget what he 
owes to others. 

Personal appearance depends 
greatly on the careful toilet and scru- 
pulous attention to dress. 

The first point which marks the 
gentleman, is rigid cleanliness in the 
body, and everything which covers it. 



330 



YOU ask! — I'll tell] 



There is no indication of a gentleman 
truer than a pure white hand — white 
in the sense of being clean — and per- 
fect-kept nails. The hair and teeth 
should receive the utmost attention. 
The head should be, in respect of the 
skin, as white as the hand, the hair 
thoroughly brushed and kept. To curl 
it artificially is not in good taste. 

A GENTLEMAN " foUows the fashion" 
to an extent, because it is an affecta- 
tion to outrage it; but he does not 
seize on every extravagance ; he con- 
cedes only to the limits of good taste, 
and always with an eye to his age, posi- 
tion, and individual peculiarities. 

Adapt your conversation to your 
company. This is somewhat trite, but 
it is the golden rule on this subject. 
Do not speak in a loud voice, or assume 
a dictatorial manner. If any statement 
is made which you know to be incorrect 
or untrue, be very careful of the manner 
in which you correct the speaker. 

Be very careful not to interrupv a 
person while speaking, and should he 
nesitate for a word, never supply it. 

Puns and slang terms are to be 
avoided as much as possible, and re- 
member there are various kinds of 
Blang : there is the slang of the draw- 
ing-room as well as of the stable. 
Every expression has its own technical 
terms, and set of expressions, which 
should be avoided in general society. 

In speaking of third persons, always 
use the prefix " Mr." or " Mrs." to 
their names. Do not refer to them by 
their initials, as Mr. or Mrs. B. Never 
allude to any one as a " party " or a 
gent (remember a gent is not always a 
yentleinan). 

CORRESPONDENCE is a point of 
special importance, for by it others 
form (perhaps unconsciously) an esti- 
mate of the writer's worth and preten- 
sions. It is difficult to overcome the 
effect produced by a badly-written, 
indifferently spelt, and unsightly letter. 
Therefore observe these rules : 

Let your stationery be of the best 
quality, your handwriting plain, your 
Btyle simple, and always inclined to 
brevity. Never omit to put your 



address, and the date on which you 
write ; and if it is a business, or very 
informal letter, add the name of the 
person addressed at the foot of the letter. 

Always reply promptly to a letter, 
no matter of what nature. (If you are 
not a good penman, it is the more 
particular to observe these rules.) 

Balls and Evening Parties. — An 
invitation to a ball should be given at 
least a week beforehand. 

If the invitation comes from a host 
or hostess, never fail to answer at the 
earliest possible moment. The host 
naturally desires to invite as many of 
his friends as he may conveniently 
entertain, and you should inform him 
at once if you cannot attend that he 
may extend his hospitality to another. 
The host always wishes to know how 
many guests to prepare for, and an 
answer is desirable on this account. 

If desirable, accept the engagement 
at once, and then j^ou can readily 
make your duties and other appoint- 
ments conform to it. The earlier you 
make the engagement the longer will 
you enjoy the pleasure of anticipating 
the enjoyment it will afiford. It is 
always well to cultivate a habit of 
definite and positive action, and the 
observance of this rule in one's social 
life will be of aid in the discharge of 
business duties. 

If the invitation is received by a 
lady from a gentleman, the obligation 
of giving a prompt answer is even 
stronger. After a gentleman has in- 
vited a lady he is alwaj^s subject to 
embarrassment until he obtains a 
reply. The fundamental principle of 
etiquette is consideration for others, 
and a considerate young woman will 
always observe this important rule. 

Upon entering, first address the lady 
of the house ; and after her, the nearest 
acquaintances you may recognize in 
the house. 

If you introduce a friend, make him 
acquainted with the names of the chief 
persons present. But first present hin» 
to the lady of the house, and to the host. 

Appear in full dress. 

Always wear gloves. 



BALLS AND PARTIES. 



Do not wear rings on the outside of 
your gloves. 

Avoid an excess of jewelry. 

Do not select the same partner fre- 
quently. 

Distribute your attentions as much 
as possible. 

Pay respectful attention to elderly 
persons. 

Be cordial when serving refresh- 
ments, but not importunate. 

If there are more dancers than the 
room will accommodate, do not join in 
every dance. 

In leaving a large party it is unne- 
cessary to bid farewell, and improper 
to do so before the guests. 

A Paris card of invitation to an 
evening party usually implies that you 
are invited for the season. 

In balls and large parties there should 
be a table for cards, and two packs of 
cards placed upon each table. 

Chess and all unsociable games 
should be avoided. 

Although many persons do not like 
to play at cards except for a stake, the 
stakes agreed to at parties should be 
very trifling, so as not to create excite- 
ment or discussion. 

The host and hostess should look 
after their guests, and not confine their 
attentions. They should, in fact, assist 
those chiefly who are the least known 
in the room. 

Avoid political and religious discus- 
sions. If you have a " hobby," keep 
it to yourself 

After dancing, conduct your partner 
to a seat. 

Resign her as soon as her next part- 
ner advances. 

Do not cross a room in an anxious 
manner, and force your way up to a 
lady merely to receive a bow. If you 
are desirous of being noticed by any 
one, put yourself in their way as if by 
accident, not appear to have singled 
them out. 

Among the middle classes, evening 
dress is often considered an affectation, 
except on special occasions ; it is well, 
therefore, to avoid it when it is not 
likely to be adopted. 



Never wear but one ring at a time. 

Use no perfumes. 

When making a call, do not be 
frightened at the presence of other 
morning callers, nor appear stiff, or 
embarrassed, though they may not be 
introduced to you. Join in the con- 
versation, which the lady of the house 
is sure to try to promote, by any light 
remark of the small talk order. If you 
are tite-a-t^e with the lady, and other 
visitors are announced, do not betray 
alarm, or embarrassment, but wait for 
a reasonable time after they are seated, 
then rise to take your leave ; bowing 
to the other visitors, and politely re- 
sisting the formal invitation to remain, 
which you will probably receive, as 
a matter of courtesy, and nothing 
more. 

Formal visits should never be pro- 
tracted beyond twenty minutes ; but do 
not look at your watch to see if it is 
time to go : wait for a lull in the con- 
versation, and avail yourself of it. 

However good the terms on which 
you may be with a lady, never stop 
her in the street to speak, and never 
offer your hand : she will stop, you 
raise your hat, and if it is agreeable to 
her, she will offer her hand. She, too, 
decides when the conversation is to 
end. If, while speaking, she moves 
onward, you should turn and accom- 
pany her : if she makes a slight incli- 
nation, as of dismissal, raise your hat, 
bow, and go on your way. 

In walking with a lady, never per- 
mit her to encumber herself with a 
book, parcel, or anything of that kind, 
but always offer to carry it. Never 
break an appointment, but be punc- 
tual to the moment in keeping it. 

Never permit a lady to pay for car- 
riages, railway tickets, etc., when you ac- 
company her to places of public resort. 

If you are in a crowd, and you and 
your lady are obliged to proceed singly, 
you should lead the way. 

In accompanying a lady, and the 
stairway is not wide enough for you 
to walk by her side, walk before her 
in ascending, and behind her in de- 
scending. 



332 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



COURTSHIP. — The first real 
awakening of the heart to the influ- 
ences of woman, is an epoch in a life 
never to be forgotten. It may have 
been preceded, and often is, by flashes 
of admiration and interest, such as 
the schoolboy calls love; but these 
are as nothing to that fast, true, deep, 
absorbing passion, which it is impos- 
sible to mistake. It is not necessary 
that the object of it should be either 
beautiful or worthy. She may be a 
plain woman, full of faults, whims, 
caprices, selfishness, unattractive in 
manner, and with a heart of marble — 
it matters not, he loves and is happy. 

Equally strong and absorbing is the 
influence of love in its bright rosy 
dawn on the gentle nature of woman. 
The newly-awakened emotion fills her 
life, and lends a mystical beauty, both 
to earth and sky. What a proud, 
joyous, happy moment that is, when 
a young and innocent girl first says to 
herself: " I am beloved, and my lover 
is dearer to me than the whole world, 
— dearer to me than my life ? " Poets 
and novelists never tire of depicting 
the charms of the springtide of love in 
woman. They show us how it adds 
beauty to the beautiful, and invests 
even those of ordinary attractions 
with a singular charm and fascination, 
the result of happiness and lightness 
of earth. These latter are the best cos- 
metics. In them lies the magic of 
f)erpetual youth, and they should at 
east accompany the dawn of love in 
woman's heart. 

Out of love, naturally and properly, 
springs courtship. 

He who loves, courts the object of 
that love. Cobbett assures us that 
*' between fifteen and twenty-two, all 
people will fall in love.'* Shak- 
apeare extends this season to the age 
of forty-five : while old Burton, writ- 
ing on love-melancholy, gives us a 
still further extension of the case. 
What an idea this gives of the court- 
ship that must be perpetually going 
on? And it must be borne in mind 
that in most cases the success of the 
love-suit depends on the manner in 



which the courtship is conducted. 
There is a happy arrangement prevail- 
ing in an East Indian tribe, by which 
the women enjoy the prerogative of 
courtship. The process adopted is 
very simple. If a lady is pleased with 
one of the opposite sex, she sends a 
friend to pin a handkerchief to his 
cap with a pin that she uses to fasten 
her hair. This is done in public, 
her name being mentioned at the 
time, and the favored one is then 
obliged to marry her, or, if not, to pay 
a substantial sum to her father. Un- 
fortunately, perhaps, our customs are 
less primitive. The lover must make 
the advance, must disclose his pas- 
sion, press his suit, and devote himself 
seriously to the business of that proba- 
tionary routine which we call courtship. 

Often a man's courting days are the 
happiest of his life. They should 
always be so, but it does not always 
follow that they are. It is so easy, so 
delicious to love — the heart learns that 
lesson so readily — but the expression of 
that love in accordance with set forms 
and conventional rules, is often rather 
a trial than otherwise. The bashful 
man finds himself put to the blush. 
The man unaccustomed to society, and 
to ladies' society especially, is forever 
at fault. Both are nervous, anxious, 
and ill at ease. Both need the advice 
and suggestions of those who have 
already acquired their experience. 
That advice and those suggestions are 
not always readily obtained ; in such 
cases these hints may be useful. 

DISENGAGED. — Everything in 
life worth having must be paid for. 
It is not very gallant to say it, but it 
is very true that this applies even to 
the position of a lover. 

He sacrifices something for the 
privileges he enjoys. 

The halcyon days of love are pre- 
ceded by a period of existence not 
altogether unenviable. 

There is a delicious freedom about 
it. The disengaged man is wholly 
irresponsible. He goes where he will, 
and does what he likes. As some one 
has said, " Everything is forgiven him 



COURTSHIP. 



333 



on account of £is position. If he talks 
nonsense, it is his high spirits ; if he 
dances incessantly the whole evening, 
it is that he may please those ' dear 
girls '; if he is marked in his attention 
to ladies, he is only on his probation ; 
if he has a few fast, lounging habits, 
it is held all very well in a young 
fellow like that." Society has a per- 
petual welcome for him ; the men like 
him for his social qualities, and the 
ladies receive him with rapture, if for 
no other reason than simply because he 
is disengaged. 

Nor is the position of the disengaged 
lady without its charms. If she has 
beauty or wit, accomplishments or 
conversational powers, she goes into 
society only to be courted and ad- 
mired. The restrictions of society 
weigh less heavily upon her than upon 
others. In her innocent gaiety of heart 
she breaks through them with impu- 
nity. It is her privilege to receive 
attentions from all, and to be com- 
promised by none. In the ball-room 
she reigns supreme ; she may give a 
smile to one, a passing word to an- 
other, and her motives will be miscon- 
strued as little as her kindness will be 
presumed on. She will never be more 
happy, people tell her, and they may 
be right. But what then ? Youth, and 
homage, and absolute sway are de- 
lightful, but they are not to be retained 
by remaining for life — disengaged. 
No I just as the young bachelor finds life 
change for him against his will — finds 
mammas grow frigid, and daughters 
shy of the man who never proposes — 
so the life of the careless, light-hearted 
girl assumes imperceptibly a fresh 
phase. She grows older, she loves, 
and then the life that was so glorious 
satisfies her no longer. A fresh am- 
bition fills her mind ; it is that of 
enjoying the whole and sole attention 
of the chosen one who is destined some 
day to make her his wife. 

PROPOSING. — Much is said of 
love at first sight. Perhaps all love, 
deserving the name — that is, as dis- 
tinguished from the mild glow of 
affection — is of that nature. But a 



proposal should always be the result 
of second thought. It is only a fool 
who suffers himself to be led into put- 
ting the rest of his life in jeopardy on 
the spur of the moment ; and certainly 
no prudent woman would consent to 
accept an offer of marriage, at the 
hands of a man whom she had only 
known a few days or weeks, as the 
case might be. Yet this sort of 
thing is perpetually done. A modern 
essayist observes, with great truth — 
" The most common source of unsuita- 
ble marriages is plainly the sheer 
thoughtlessness with which many 
women marry. The process resembles 
nothing so much as raffling. Virtually 
the whole thing is an affair of accident 
or chance." It is sad that this should 
be literally true, because the marriage 
tie is so close and binding ; the happi- 
ness of those united by it can only be 
secured by such thorough union and 
accord, that it is the grossest folly, not 
to say wickedness, for persons to incur 
the responsibility of matrimony in 
ignorance of each other's antecedents, 
principles, habits, tastes, inclinations, 
and modes of thinking. Avowals of 
love, or proposals, are made in various 
ways, the very worst of which is doing 
it by proxy. 

Faint-hearted lovers — timid, nervous 
persons — sometimes adopt the expe- 
dient of proposing by letter. This is 
always objectionable where a personal 
interview is to be had, because a man 
can tell his love so much better than 
he can write about it. The passion of 
his breast glows in his eyes — the sin- 
cerity of those feelings to which he 
struggles to give utterance is gathered 
from the tone of his voice. Now, in a 
letter there are only words, and gener- 
ally ill-chosen ones. There is nothing 
so difficult to write as a love-letter. 
Either it is too impassioned and savors 
of exaggeration, or it is too matter-of- 
fact and conveys an idea of coldness. 

However, there are circumstances — 
absence among others — which some- 
times oblige a man to write. 

Asking Papa. — In these days, the 
lover and the object of his choice gen- 



:;4 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



erally come to an understanding with- 
out much being said about it on either 
side; a favorable opportunity brings an 
avowal from the lips of the gentleman, 
who entreats permission to pay hia ad- 
dresses, and receives an assurance that 
it would not be distasteful to the lady 
herself, but that he must " ask papa." 
When the proposal is made by the 
gentleman in writing, he usually asks 

f»ermission to obtain the consent of the 
ady's parents. This also is sometimes 
done in writing ; but it is much better 
that, for each of the two great steps in 
the courtship — proposing to the lady, 
and asking the father's or mother's 
consent — a personal interview should 
be obtained. 

If the lover is too diflBdent to ap- 
proach the subject in his own proper 
person, or if circumstances compel him 
to write, he should bear in mind that 
his letter ought to treat of two points 
— first, his regard for the lady ; and 
secondly, the circumstances which 
warrant him in seeking to make her 
his wife. 

A letter of this kind should be brief 
and to the purpose ; without having 
the formality of a purely business 
epistle, it should be free from romance 
or sentiment. It may be distasteful to 
the lover to have to speak calmly of 
his character and his means, instead of 
going into raptures over his passion, 
and the charms that have inspired it ; 
but under the circumstances, it is in- 
cumbent on him to do so. A father 
who is called to part with his child to 
another, is called on to regard the step 
not from a lover's point of view, but 
from that of a man of the world. 

The point has often been debated as 
to how far a parent's judgment, feel- 
ings, or prejudices, ought to be respected 
by a son or a daughter in a matter of 
such moment as that of the choice of 
a partner for life. On this point, some 
sound and sensible views have been 
expressed to the following effect : 

" There are a great many nice ques- 
tions with reference to the exact duty 
of parents in preventing matrimonial 
mistakes on the part of their daughters. 



Of course, if a girl has set her heart on 
somebody whom they know to be an 
unprincipled scamp, her father and 
mother would be gravely to blame if 
they did not promptly take every pos- 
sible step to prevent the marriage. But 
suppose the favored suitor is what they 
call ' a very deserving young man,' but 
needy, are they to prohibit the match 
in the face of the daughter's vehement 
inclination ? Or a case may arise in 
which they know nothing against 
the character or the position of the 
suitor, but entertain a vague misgiving, 
an indistinct prejudice against him. 
May this be justly allowed to counter- 
balance the daughter's deliberate pref- 
erence ? 

" There are a hundred shades of feel- 
ing between cordial approbation of a 
man for a son-in-law, and a repug- 
nance which nothing can overcome; 
and it is impossible to draw the line at 
any one point, and say, ' Here the 
father is justified in withholding his 
consent.' In every case very much 
depends upon the character of the 
daughter herself. If she is naturally 
weak and wrong-headed, the exercise 
of parental authority can hardly be 
carried too far, in order to protect 
her. But if she has habitually dis- 
played a sound judgment and a solid 
temper, the question how far a father 
will be wise in imposing his veto is one 
which there must be a good deal of 
practical difficulty in deciding." 

ENGAGED. — " I am not sure that 
if you really love a person, and are 
quite confident about him, that having 
to look forward to being married is not 
the best part of all." 

It is the friends who experience the 
inconvenience. 

A closer intimacy is permitted to the 
engaged in this country than in most 
others. It is preceded by the intro- 
duction of the suitor to the lady's rela- 
tives, after which the lady is introduced 
to his family. 

An " engaged " ring is generally 
given by the gentleman, and worn by 
the lady on the fourth nngei. as it is 
called; that is, the finger next the 



MARRIAGE. 



little one on the right hand. After 
marriage it is transferred to the similar 
finger on the left hand, and becomes 
the guard or keeper of the wedding- 
ring. 

There are many delicate ways in 
which the engaged lover may express 
his devotion besides giving costly pres- 
ents. A few flowers, arranged to ex- 
press attachment, or conveying a com- 
pliment, according to the language of 
flowers ; the loan or gift of a volume 
of some favorite writer, with a page 
turned down at a suggestive passage, 
are attentions sure to be appreciated. 

Speaking of both parties to the en- 
gagement, we may add that affected 
indifference is in bad taste ; so is ex- 
clusiveness. Do not behave with too 
great freedom ; and do not, on the 
other hand, sit apart, hand clasped in 
hand, or make displays of affection and 
fondness — either of which are out of 
place in society. 

The lady may have money, in which 
case it is desirable that some legal con- 
trol over it should be secured to her, 
that, in the event of trouble or diffi- 
culty, it cannot be touched by the hus- 
band, or his creditors, without the 
wife's consent. Among the middle and 
lower classes this kind of thing is not 
and cannot be insisted on. It is, how- 
ever, becoming the custom for the be- 
trothed to insure his life in favor of 
his intended, and this is a plan which 
cannot be too highly commended. 

REFUSAL. — As a woman is not 
bound to accept an offer, so no sensible 
man will think the worse of her, or 
feel himself personally injured, by a 
refusal. That it will give him pain is 
most probable ; if his heart does not 
suffer, his vanity will ; but in time he 
will appreciate the fact that his feel- 
ings were not trifled with, but were met 
in an earnest, candid spirit. 

Young ladies should remember that, 
charming and fascinating as they may 
be, the man who proposes pays them a 
high compliment — the highest in his 
power. 

In refusirfg, the lady ought to con- 
vey her full sense of the honor intended 



her, and to add, seriously, but not 
offensively, that it is not in accordance 
with her inclinations, or that circum- 
stances compel her to give an unfavor- 
able answer. 

It is only a flirt who keeps an hon- 
orable man in suspense for the purpose 
of glorifying herself by his attentions 
in the eyes of friends. A lady will 
not boast of an offer received and re- 
jected. Such an offer is a privileged 
communication. The secret of it 
should be held sacred. 

The duty of the rejected suitor is 
clear. Etiquette demands that he 
shall accept the lady's decision, and 
retire from the field. 

MARRIAGE. — June, July, and 
August are favorite months for wed- 
dings. Easter week is a very popular 
time. As a general rule, marriages 
are not celebrated during Lent. The 
approximate time is generally arranged 
by the young people, but the mother 
of the bride generally names the exact 
day. 

Wedding Dress. — It is impossi- 
ble to lay down specific rules for dress, 
as fashions change and tastes differ. 
The great art consists in selecting the 
style of dress most becoming to the 
person. A stout person should adopt 
a different style from a thin person ; 
a tall one from a short one. Peculiar- 
ities of complexion, and form of face 
and figure, should be duly regarded ; 
and in these matters there is no better 
course than to call in the aid of any 
respectable milliner and dressmaker, 
who will be found ready to give the 
best advice. The bridegroom should 
simply appear in full dress, and should 
avoid everything eccentric and broad 
in style. The bridesmaids should al- 
ways be made aware of the bride's 
dress before they choose their own, 
which should be determined by a 
proper harmony with the former. 

The Order of Going to Church 
is as follows: — The Bride, accom- 
panied by her father, not unfrequently 
her mother, and uniformly by a brides- 
maid, occupies the first cai-riage. The 
father hands out the bride, and leads 



336 



YOU ask! — i'll tell! 



lier to the church, the mother and the 
bridesmaid following. After them 
come the other bridesmaids, attended 
by the groomsmen, if there are more 
than one. 

The Bridegroom occupies the last 
carriage with the principal groomsman 
— an intimate friend, or brother. He 
follows, and stands with the bride at his 
left hand. The father places himself 
behind, with the mother, if she attends. 

The Chief Bridesmaid occupies a 
j>lace on the left of the bride, to hold 
her gloves, and handkerchief, and 
flowers; her companions range them- 
selves on the left. 

Fees. — In determining the fee to 
be given to the ojQSciating minister, no 
arbitrary rule can be given ; it ranges 
from five to one hundred dollars, per- 
haps ten dollars is the most usual fee. 
The standing of the minister and the 
circumstances of the bridegroom have 
a bearing on this point. Whatever 
the amount, it had better be given to 
a friend of the groom, who will pre- 
sent it in an envelope to the minister. 
This same friend should also pay the 
sexton for his preparation for and at 
tendance at the ceremony. Although 
a gentleman should be liberal at this 
time, he ought not to tax himself 
above his means. In some rich fam- 
ilies, where the officiating minister is 
an old friend, the marriage of a mem- 
ber of the family is made the occasion 
to make him a valuable present. 

The Order of Return from 
Church differs from the above only 
in the fact that the bride and bride- 
groom now ride together, the bride 
being on his left, and a bridesmaid 
and a groomsman, or the father of the 
bride, occupying the front seats of the 
carriage. On their return to the house 
a reception is generally held to give the 
friends of the families an opportunity 
to offer their congratulations. After 
this, when a wedding tour is intended, 
the happy pair generally take their de- 
parture. 

Cards. — A newly married couple 
send out cards immediately after the 
ceremony to their friends and acquain- 



tances, who, on their part, return either 
notes or cards of congratulation on 
the event. As soon as the lady is set- 
tled in her new home, she may expect 
the calls of her acquaintance ; for 
which it is not absolutely necessary to 
remain at home, although politeness 
requires that they should be returned 
as soon as possible. But, having per- 
formed this, any further intercourse 
may be avoided (where it is deemed 
necessary) by a polite refusal of invi- 
tations. Where cards are to be left, 
the number must be determined ac- 
cording to the various members of 
which the family called upon is com- 
posed. For instance, where there are 
the mother, aunt, and daughters (the 
latter having been introduced to so- 
ciety), three cards should be left. Re- 
cently, the custom of sending cards 
has been in a great measure discon- 
tinued, and instead of this, the words 
"No cards" are appended to the ordi- 
nary newspaper advertisement, and 
the announcement of the marriage, 
with this addition, is considered all- 
sufficient. 

FUNERALS.— The management of 
funerals vary so much in different States 
and cities, that no general rule will ap- 
ply. But it is safe to say that when 
death occurs, it is best at once to con- 
sult an undertaker. In the excited 
and troubled state of mind existing at 
that time, there is an unfitness, if not 
an inability, on the part of the rela- 
tives to attend to the many details, 
such as laying out, cofl5n, hearse, 
cemetery arrangements, minister, etc., 
etc. All these things just at that time are 
bewildering to those unused to them. 
But in the hands of the undertaker 
all goes well and orderly. It may be 
thought more expensive to place all in 
the care of an undertaker. Perhaps it 
may cost more, but who does not wish 
that these last sad rites should be per- 
formed in an orderly manner, and that 
the solemnities of the occasion may 
not be marred by confusion ? But we 
are not sure that it does cost more. If 
your resources are limited, tell the un- 
dertaker so. He will be guided by what 



DANCING. 



337 



jrou tell him in this respect, and his 
experience will enable him to so ar- 
range that there will be a uniform con- 
sistency in the whole. 

We are glad to find that extrava- 
gance and show at funerals is fast giv- 
ing way before the good sense of the 
peoplo. Our best families everywhere 
are setting examples which it will be 
well to follow. The false pride and 
extravagance which runs a family into 
debt for a year, to pay for a showy 
funeral for one of its members, has re- 
ceived a check from the pulpits of 
many of our cities. Let us pay all the 
respect we can to our dead ; but it 
must be in a manner proportionate to 
our means. For the poor man to half 
starve his living children to meet the 
needless expense of a fashionable fu- 
neral for the loved one who has died, is 
feeding the vanity of the living, rather 
than showing respect for the dead. 

Terms used to Describe the Move- 
ments of Dances. 

Balancez. — Set to partners. 

Chaine Anglaise. — The top and bot- 
tom couples right and left. 

Chaine Anglaise double. — The right 
and left double. 

Chaine des Dames. — The ladies' 
chain, 

Chaine des Dames double. — The 
ladies' chain double, which is per- 
formed by all the ladies commencing 
at the same time. 

Chassez. — Move to the right and left. 

Chassez croisez. — Gentlemen change 
places with partners, and back again. 

Demie Chaine Anglaise. — The four 
opposite persons half right and left. 

Demi Promenade. — All eight half 
promenade. 

Dos-d-dos. — The two opposite per- 
sons pass round each other. 

Demi Moulinet. — The ladies all ad- 
vance to the centre, giving hands, and 
return to places. 

La Grande Chaine. —All eight chas- 
sez quite round, giving alternately right 
and left hands to partners, beginning 
with the right. 

22 



Le Grande Bond. — All join hands 
and advance and retire twice. 

Pas d'Allemande. — The gentlemen 
turn the partners under their arms. 

Traversez. — The two opposite per- 
sons change places. 

Vis-d-vis. — The opposite partner, 

aUADEILLES. — The Fiest 
^Ki:. — First Figure, Le Pantalon.— 
Right and left. Balancez to part- 
ners; turn partners. Ladies' chain. 
Half promenade; half right and left. 
(Four times.) — Second Figure, L'Ete. 
Leading lady and opposite gentleman 
advance and retire; chassez to right 
and left; cross over to each other's 
places; chassez to right and left. 
Balancez and turn partners. (Four 
times.) Or Double L'Ff^. — Both 
couples advance and retire at the same 
time; cross over; advance and retire 
again; cross to places. Balancez 
and turn partners. (Four times.) 
Third Figure, La Poule. — Lead- 
ing lady and opposite gentleman 
cross over, giving right hands ; recross, 
giving left hands, and fall in a line. 
Set four in a line; half promenade. 
Advance two, and retire (twice). 
Advance four, and retire; half right 
and left. (Four times.) Fourth Figure, 
La Pastorale. — The leading couple 
advance twice, leaving the lady oppo- 
site the second time. The three advance 
and retire twice. The leading gentle- 
man advance and set. Hands four half 
round; half rightand left. (Four times.) 
Fifth Figure, Galop Finale. — Top 
and bottom couples galopade quite 
round each other. Advance and retire ; 
four advance again, andchange thegen- 
tlemen. Ladies' chain. Advance and 
retire four, and regain your partners 
in your places. The fourth time all 
galopade for an unlimited period. 
(Four times.) Or, All galopade or 
promenade, eight bars. Advance four 
en galop oblique, and retire, then half 
promenade, eight bars. Advance four, 
retire, and return to places with the 
half promenade, eight bars. Ladies' 
chain, eight bars. Repeated by the 
side couples, then by the top and bot- 



338 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



om, and lastly by the side couples, 
finiahing with grand promenade. 

Lancers. — 1. La Rose. — First gen- 
tleman and opposite lady advance and 
set — turn with both hands, retiring to 
places — return, leading outside — set 
and turn at corners. 2. La Lodoiska. — 
First couple advance twice, leaving the 
lady in the centre — set in the centre — 
turn to places — all advance to two 
lines — all turn partners. 3. La Dorset. 

— First lady advance and stop, then 
the opposite gentleman — both retire, 
turning around — ladies' hands across 
half round, and turn the opposite gen- 
tlemen with left hands — repeat back 
to places, and turn partners with left 
hands. 4. L' Etoile. — First couple 
set to couple at right — set to couple 
at left — change places with partners, 
and set, and pirouette to places — right 
and left with opposite couple. 5. Les 
Landers. — The grand chain. The 
first couple advance and turn facing 
the top ; then the couple at right 
advance behind the top couple ; then 
the couple at left, and the opposite 
couple do the same, forming two lines. 
All change places with partners and 
back again. The ladies turn in a line 
on the right, the gentlemen in a line 
on the left. Each couple meet up the 
centre. Set in two lines, the ladies in 
one line, the gentlemen in the other. 
Turn partners to places. Finish with 
the grand chain. 

The Caledonians. — First Figure. 

— The first and opposite couples hands 
across round the centre, and back to 
places — set and turn partners. Ladies 
chain. Half promenade — half right 
and left. Repeated by the side couples. 
Second Figure. — The first gentleman 
advance and retire twice. All set at 
corners, each lady passing into the 
next lady's place on the right. Prom- 
enade by all. Repeated by the other 
couples. Third Figure. — The first lady 
and opposite gentleman advance and 
retire, bending to each other. First 
lady and opposite gentleman pass 
round each other to places. First 
couple cross over, having hold of hands, 
while the opposite couple cross on the 



outside of them — the same reversed 
All set at corners, turn, and resume 
partners. All advance and retire twice, 
in a circle with hands joined- — turn 
partners. Fourth Figure. — The first 
lady and opposite gentleman advance 
and stop ; then their partners advance ; 
turn partners to places. The four ladies 
move to right, each taking the next 
lady's place, and stop — the four gentle- 
men move to left, each taking the 
next gentleman's place, and stop — the 
ladies repeat the same to the right 
— then the gentlemen to the left. All 
join hands and promenade round to 

E laces, and turn partners. Repeated 
y the other couples. Fifth Figure. — 
The first couple promenade or waltz 
round inside the figure. The four 
ladies advance, join hands round, and 
retire — then the gentlemen perform 
the same — all set and turn partners. 
Chain figure of eight half round, and 
set. All promenade to places and turn 
partners. All change sides, join right 
hands at corners, and set — back again 
to places. Finish with grand prome- 
nade. — These three are the most ad- 
mired of the quadrilles : the First Set 
invariably takes precedence of every 
other dance. 

Spanish Dance. — Danced in a 
circle or a line by sixteen or twenty 
couples. The couples stand as for a 
Country Dance, except that the first 
gentleman must stand on the ladies' 
side, and the first lady on the gentle- 
men's side. First gentleman and second 
lady balancez to each other, while first 
lady and second gentleman do the 
same, and change places. First gen- 
tleman and partner balancez, while 
second gentleman and partner do the 
same, and change places. First gen- 
tleman and second lady balancez, while 
first lady and second gentleman do the 
same, and change places. First gen- 
tleman and second lady balancez to 
partners, and change places with them. 
All four join hands in the centre, and 
then change places, in the same order 
as the foregoing figure, four times. All 
four poussette, leaving the second lady 
and gentleman at the top, the same as 



DANCING. 



339 



In a Country Dance. The first lady 
and gentleman then go through the 
same figure with the third lady and gen- 
tleman, and so proceed to the end of the 
dance. This figure is sometimes danced 
in eight-bars time, which not only hur- 
ries and inconveniences the dancers, 
but also ill accords with the music 

Waltz Cotillon. — Places the 
same as quadrille. First couple waltz 
round inside ; first and second ladies 
advance twice and cross over, turning 
twice; first and second gentlemen do 
the same ; third and fourth couples the 
same; first and second couples waltz to 
places, third and fourth do the same ; 
all waltz to partners, and turn half 
round with both hands, meeting the 
next lady ; perform this figure until in 
your places; form two side lines, all 
advance twice and cross over, turning 
twice; the same, returning; all waltz 
round ; the whole repeated four times. 
LaGalopade is an extremely grace- 
ful and spirited dance, in a continual 
chassez. An unlimited number may join. 
It is danced iu couples, as waltzing. 

The Galopade Quadrilles. — 
1st, Galopade. 2d, Right and left, 
Bides the same. 3d, Set and turn 
hands all eight. 4th, Galopade. 5th, 
Ladies' chain, sides the same. 6th, 
Set and turn partners all eight. 7th, 
Galopade. 8th, Tirois, sides the same. 
9th, Set and turn partners all eight. 
10th, Galopade. nth. Top lady and 
bottom gentleman advance and retire, 
the other six do the same. 12th, Set 
and turn partners all eight. 13th, 
Galopade. 14th, Four ladies advance 
ind retire, gentlemen the same. 15th, 
Double ladies' chain. 16th, Set and 
urn partners all eight. 17th, Galopade. 
►8th, Poussette, sides the same. 19th 
Set and turn. 20th, Galopade waltz. 
The Mazurka. — This dance is of 
Polish origin — first introduced into 
England by the Duke of Devonshire, 
on his return from Russia. It consists 
of twelve movements ; and the first eight 
bars are played (as in quadrilles) before 
the first movement commences. 

The Redowa Waltz is composed 
of three parts, distinct from each other 



1st, The pursuit. 2d, The waltz 
called Redowa. 3d, The waltz k Deux 
Temps, executed to a peculiar measure, 
and which, by a change of the rhythm, 
assumes a new character. The middle 
of the floor must be reserved for the 
dancers who execute the promenade, 
called the pursuit, while those who 
dance the waltz turn in a circle about 
the room. The position of the gentle- 
man is the same as for the waltz. The 
gentleman sets out with the left foot, 
and the lady with the right. In the 
pursuit the position is different, the 
gentleman and his partner face, and 
take each other by the hand. They 
advance or fall back at pleasure, and 
balance in advance and backwards. To 
advance, the step of the pursuit is 
made by a glissade forward, without 
springing, coupe with the hind foot, 
and Jete on it. You recommence with 
the other foot, and so on throughout. 
The retiring step is made by a sliding 
step of the foot backwards, without 
spring, j'ete with the front foot, and 
coupe with the one behind. It is ne- 
cessary to advance well upon the slid- 
ing step, and to spring lightly in 4Jie 
two others, sur place, balancing 
equally in the pas de poursuite, which 
is executed alternately by the left in 
advance, and the right backwards. 
The lady should follow all the move- 
ments of her partner, falling back 
when he advances, and advancing 
when he falls back. Bring the shoul- 
ders a little forward at each sliding 
step, for they should always follow th© 
movement of the leg as it advances of 
retreats; but this should not be tod 
marked. When the gentleman is 
about to waltz, he should take the 
lady's waist, as in the ordinary waltz. 
The step of the Redowa, in turning, 
may be thus described : For the gen- 
tleman —Jete of the left foot, passing 
before the lady. Glissade of the right 
foot behind to the fourth position 
aside — the left foot is brought to the 
third position behind — then the pas 
de basque is executed by the right 
foot, bringing it forward, and you re- 
commence with the left. The poi 



:o 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



de bc^que stiould be made in three 
very equal beats, as in the Mazurka. 
The lady performs the same steps as 
the gentleman, beginning by the pas 
de basque with the right foot. To 
waltz t\ deux temps to the measure of 
the Redowa, we should make each 
step upon each beat of the bar, and find 
ourselves at every two bars, the gen- 
tleman with his left foot forwards, and 
the lady with her right, that is to say, 
we should make one whole and one half 
step to every bar. The music is rather 
slower than for the ordinary waltz. 

Valse Cellarius. — The gentle- 
man takes the lady's left hand with 
his right, moving one bar to the left by 
glissade, and two hops on his left foot, 
while the lady does the same to the 
right, on her right foot; at the second 
bar they repeat the same with the other 
foot — this is repeated for sixteen bars ; 
they then waltz sixteen bars, glissade 
and two hops, taking care to occupy 
the time of two bars to get quite round. 
The gentleman now takes both hands 
of the lady, and makes the grand square 

— moving three bars to his left — at the 
fourth bar making two beats while turn- 
ing the angle ; his right foot is now 
moved forward to the other angle three 
bars — at the fourth, beat again while 
turning the angle ; the same repeated 
for sixteen bars — the lady having her 
right foot forward when the gentleman 
has his left foot forward ; the waltz is 
again repeated ; after which several 
other steps are introduced, but which 
must needs be seen to be understood. 

Circular Waltz. — The dancers 
form a circle, then promenade during 
the introduction — all waltz sixteen 
bars — set, holding partner's right 
hand, and turn — waltz thirty -two bars 

— rest, and turn partners slowly — face 

{)artner and chassez to the right and 
eft — pirouette lady twice with the 
right hand, all waltz sixteen bars — 
Bet and turn — all form a circle, still 
retaining the lady by the right hand, 
and move round to the left, sixteen 
bars — waltz for finale. 

Polka Waltzes. — The couples 
take hold of hands as in the usual 



waltz. First Waltz. The gentleman 
hops the left foot well forward, then 
back, and glissades half round. He then 
hops the right foot forward, and back, 
and glissades the other half round. The 
lady performs the same steps, begin- 
ning with the right foot. Second. The 
gentleman, hopping, strikes the left 
heel three times against the right heel, 
and then jumps half round on the left 
foot ; he then strikes the right heel 
three times against tho left, and jumps 
on the right foot, completing the circle. 
The lady does the same steps with re- 
verse feet. Third. The gentleman raises 
up the left foot, steps it lightly on the 
ground forward, then strikes the right 
heel smartly twice, and glissades half 
round. The same is then done with 
the other foot. The lady begins with 
the right foot. 

Valse a Deux Temps, — This 
waltz contains, like the common waltz, 
three times, but differently divided. 
The first time consists of a gliding 
step ; the second a chassez, including 
two times in one. A chassez is per- 
formed by bringing one leg near the 
other, then moving it forward, back- 
ward, right, left, and round. The gen- 
tleman begins by sliding to the left 
with his left foot, then performing a 
chassez towards the left with his right 
foot without turning at all during the 
first two times. He then slides back- 
wards with his right leg, turning half 
round ; after which he puts his left 
leg behind to perform a chassez xbr- 
ward, turning then half round for the 
second time. The lady waltzes in the 
same manner, except that the first 
time she slides to the right with the 
right foot, and also performs the chas- 
sez on the right, and continues the 
same as the gentleman, except that she 
slides backwards with her right foot 
when the gentleman slides with his 
left foot to the left ; and when the gen- 
tleman slides with his right foot back- 
wards, she slides with the left foot to 
the left. To perform this waltz grace- 
fully, care must be taken to avoid 
jumping, but merely to slide, and keep 
the knees slightly bent. 



DANCING. 



a 



Circassian Circle. — The com- 
pany is arranged in couples round the 
room — the ladies being placed on the 
right of the gentlemen, — after which, 
the first and second couples lead off the 
dance. Figure. Right and left, set 
and turn partners — ladies chain, 
waltz. At the conclusion, the first 
couple with fourth, and the second 
with the third couple, recommence the 
figure, — and so on until they go com- 
pletely round the circle, when the 
dance is concluded. 

Polka. — In the polka there are but 
two principal steps, all others belong 
to fancy dances, and much mischief 
and inconvenience is likely to arise 
from their improper introduction into 
the ball-room. First step. The gen- 
tleman raises the left foot slightly be- 
hind the right, the right foot is then 
jumped upon, and the left brought 
forward with a glissade. The lady 
commences with the right, jumps on 
the left, and glissades with the right. 
The gentleman during his step has 
hold of the lady's left hand with his 
right. Second step. The gentleman 
lightly hops the left foot forward on the 
heel, then hops on the toe, bringing 
the left foot slightly behind the right. 
He then glissades with the left foot 
forward ; the same is then done, com- 
mencing with the right foot. The lady 
dances the same step, only beginning 
"with the right foot. There are a 
variety of other steps of a fancy char- 
acter, but they can only be understood 
with the aid of a master, and even 
when well studied, must be introduced 
"with care. The polka should be danced 
with grace and elegance, eschewing all 
outre and ungainly steps and gestures, 
taking care that the leg is not lifted 
too high, and that the dance is not 
commenced in too abrupt a manner. 
Any number of couples may stand up, 
and it is the privilege of the gentle- 
man 10 form what figure he pleases, 
and vary it as often as his fancy and 
taste may dictate. First figure. Four 
or eight bars are devoted to setting 
forwards and backwards, turning from 
and towards "5 our partner, making a 



slight hop at the commencement of 
each set, and holding your partner's 
left hand ; you then perform the same 
step (forwards) all round the room. 
Second figure. The gentleman faces 
his partner, and does the same step 
backwards all round the room, the 
lady following with the opposite foot, 
and doing the step forwards. Third 
figure. The same as the second figure, 
only reversed, the lady stepping back- 
wards, and the gentleman forwards, 
always going the same way round the 
room. Fourth figure. The same step 
as figures two and three, but turning 
as in a waltz. 

The Gorlitza is similar to the polka, 
the figures being waltzed through. 

The Schottische. — The gentleman 
holds the lady precisely as in the polka. 
Beginning with the left foot, he slides 
it forward, then brings up the right 
foot to the place of the left, slides the 
left foot forward, and springs or hops 
on this foot. This movement is re- 
peated to the right. He begins with 
the right foot, slides it forward, brings 
up the left foot to the place of the right 
foot, slides the right foot forward again, 
and hops upon it. The gentleman 
springs twice on the left foot, turning 
half round ; twice on the right foot ; 
twice encore on the left foot, turning 
half round; and again twice on the 
right foot, turning half round. Begin- 
ning again, he proceeds as before. The 
lady begins with the right foot, and 
her step is the same in principle as the 
gentleman's. Vary, by a reverse turn ; 
or by going in a straight line round the 
room. Double, if you like, each part, 
by giving four bars to the first part, 
and four bars to the second part. The 
time may be stated as precisely the 
same as in the polka ; but let it not be 
forgotten that La Schottische ought to 
be danced much slower. 

Country Dances. — Sir Roger de 
Coverley. — First lady and bottom gen- 
tleman advance to centre, salute, and 
retire ; first gentleman and bottom lady, 
same. First lady and bottom gentle 
man advance to centre, turn, and re- 
tire ; first gentleman and bottom lady 



342 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



the same. Ladies promenade, turning 
off to the right down the room, and 
back to places, while gentlemen do 
the same, turning to the left ; top couple 
remain at bottom ; repeat to the end 
of dance. 

La Polka Country Dances. — All 
form two lines, ladies on the right, gen- 
tlemen on the left. Figure : Top lady 
and second gentleman heel and toe 
(polka step) across to each other's 
place — second lady and top gentleman 
the same. Top lady and second gen- 
tleman retire back to places — second 
lady and top gentleman the same. 
Two couples polka step down the mid- 
dle and back again — two first couples 
polka waltz. First couple repeat with 
the third couple, then with fourth, and 
so on to the end of dance. 

The Highland Reel. — This dance 
is performed by the company arranged 
in parties of three, along the room, in 
the following manner : a lady between 
two gentlemen, in double rows. All 
advance and retire — each lady then 
performs the reel with the gentleman 
on her right hand, and retires with the 
opposite gentleman to places — hands 
three round and back again — all six 
advance and retire — then lead through 
to the next trio, and continue the figure 
to the end of the room. Adopt the 
Highland step, and music of three-part 
tune. 

Language of Flowers. 

Flowers. Sentiment. 

Amaranth Immortality. 

Anemune Frailty. 

A8t«r Beauty in retirement. 

Acacia Platonic. love. 

Apple-blossom Fame speaks you great and good. 

Ash Grandeur. 

Alyisum..'. Worth beyond Beauty. 

Bachelor's Button. Hope in Misery. 

Balm Sweets of social intercourse. 

Balm of Gilead I am cured. 

Balsam Impatience. 

Barbary Petulance. 

Bay Leaf I change but in dying. 

Birch (ira(«fulnes8. 

Bindweed Humility. 

Blue Bell Constancy. 

Box Stoicism. 

Broome Neatness. 

Burdock Importunity 

Calla Feminine modesty. 

Chamomile Knerjjy in adversity. 

Candytuft Indifference. 

Cardinal Flower... Uistinction. 



Flowers. Sentiment. 

Carnation Pride. 

Catchfly A snare. 

Cedar Tree Spiritual strength. 

Cherry-blossom.... Spiritual beauty. 

China Aster Tour sentiments meot wite ■ 

return. 
Chrysanthemum .. A heart left to desolation. 

Cinquefoil Love, constant but hopeleat. 

Clematis Mental excellence. 

Columbine I cannot give thee np. 

Corn Riches. 

Cowslip Native grace. 

Coreopsis Alwiiys cheerful. 

Coriander Concealed merit. 

Cypress Disapjiointed hopes. 

Dahlia Elegance and dignity. 

Daisy Beauty and innocence. 

Dandelion Coquetry. 

Dew-plant Serenade. 

Elder Compassion. 

Eglantine Poetry. 

Everlasting Always remembered. 

Evergreen Poverty and worth. 

Fir Time. 

Flowering Reed... Confidence in heaven. 

Forget-me-not True love. 

Foxglove I am not ambitious for myMtf 

but for you. 

Fuchsia Humble love. 

Gentian Virgin pride. 

Geranium, Rose Preference. 

" Scarlet. Thou art changed. 

" Oak True friendship. 

" Lemon. Tranquillity of mind, 

" Silver-leaved Recall. 

Gilly Flower Lasting beauty. 

Golden Rod Encouragement, 

Grape Charity. 

Grass Submission. 

Hawthorn Hope. 

Hazel Reconciliation. 

Heliotrope Devotion. 

Hibiscus Beauty is vain. 

Hollyhock Ambition. 

Honeysuckle Fidelity. 

Hop Injustice. 

Houstonia Quiet happiness. 

Hydrangia Heartlessness. 

Ice Plant «... Your looks freeze me. 

Iris A message. 

Ivy I have found one true boui 

Jasmine Amiability. 

Jonquil Aflection returned. 

King-cup I wish I was rich. 

Laburnum Pensive beauty. 

Lady's Slipper Capricious beauty. 

Larkspur Inconstancy. 

Laurel Virtue is true beanty. 

Lavender Acknowledgment. 

Lemon Discretion. 

Lettuce Cold-hearted. 

Lilac First emotion of love. 

Lily Purity. 

Lily of the Valley. Heart withering in iecret. 

Locust Affection beyond the gntTik 

Lupine Dejection. 

London Pride F'rivolity. 

Mallows Sweet disposition. 

Maple Reserve. 

Marygold Contempt. 

Mignonette Moral beauty. 

Mimosa Sensitiveness. 

Moss Maternal love. 

Myrtle Love in absenoik 

Nasturtion Patriotism. 



THE TOILET. 



13 



Flowers. Sentiment. 

tTightshade Dark thought. 

Oak Ilospitality. 

Oleander Beware. 

Orange Flowers.... Woman's worth. 

"ansy Tender and pleasant thoughts. 

Passion Flower Religious fer-vor. 

Pea, Everlasting... Wilt thou go? 

Pea, Sweet Departure. 

Peach-blossom I am yoar captive. 

Petunia Thou art less proud than they 

deem thee. 

Peony Ostentation. 

Phlox Our souls are united. 

Pine Time and faith. 

Pink, White Lovely and pure affection. 

Pink, Red Woman's love. 

Polyanthus Confidence. 

Potato Beneficence. 

Poppy Forgetfuluess. 

Primrose Modest worth. 

Primrose, Evening I am more faithful than tbon. 

Rose-bud Confession of love. 

Eose, Bridal Happy love. 

Hose, Burgundy... Simplicity and beauty. 

Rose, Damask Bashful love. 

Rose, Moss Superior merit. 

Rose, Multiflora... Grace. 

Rose, White Too young to love. 

Rose, Red-leaved .. Diffidence. 

Sage Domestic virtues. 

Snapdragon Dazzling, but dangerous. 

Snowball Thoughts of heaven. 

Snowdrop I am not a summer friend. 

Star of Bethlehem Let us fullow Jesus. 

Strawberry Perfect excellence. 

Sumach Splendid misery. 

Sunflower Smile on me still. 

Sweet William Gallantry. 

Syringa Memory. 

Thistle Never forget. 

Tulip Beautiful eyes. 

Verbena Sensibility. 

Violet Faithfulness. 

Vernal Grass... Poor, but happy. 

Wallflower Fidelity in misfortnne. 

Water Lily Eloquence. 

Willow Forsaken. 

V\itch Hazel A spell. 

Woodbine Fraternal love. 

Yarrow A cure for the heartache. 

Zinnia I mourn your absence. 



To Soften the Skin and Improve 
the Complexion. — If flowers of sul- 
phur be mixed in a little milk, and, 
after standing an hour or two, the milk 
(without disturbing the sulphur) be 
rubbed into the skin, it will keep it 
soft, and make the complexion clear. 
It is to be used befare washing. A lady 
of our acquaintance, being exceedingly 
anxious about her complexion, adopted 
the above suggestion. In about a fort- 
night she wrote to us to say that the 
mixture became so disagreeable after 
it had been made a few days, that she 
could not use it. We should have won- 



dered if she could — the milk became 
putrid ! A little of the mixture should 
have been prepared over night with 
evening milk, and used the next morn- 
ing, but not afterwards. About a wine- 
glassful made for each occasion would 
suffice. 

EYELASHES. -The mode adopted 
by the beauties of the East to increase 
the length and strength of their eye- 
lashes, is simply to clip the split ends 
with a pair of scissors about once a 
month. Mothers perform the opera- 
tion on their children, both male and 
female, when they are mere infants, 
watching the opportunity while they 
sleep. The practice never fails to pro- 
duce the desired effect. We recom- 
mend it to the attention of our fair 
readers, as a safe and innocent means 
of enhancing the charms which so 
many of them, no doubt, already pos- 
sess. 

The Teeth. — Dissolve two ounces 
of borax in three pints of water ; before 
quite cold, add thereto one teaspoonful 
of tincture of myrrh, and one table- 
spoonful of spirits of camphor : bottle 
the mixture for use. One wine-glass- 
ful of the solution, added to half a pint 
of tepid water, is sufiicient for each 
application. This solution, applied 
daily, preserves and beautifies the 
teeth, extirpates tartarous adhesion, 
produces a pearl-like whiteness, arrests 
decay, and induces a healthy action in 
the gums. 

Our Teeth. — They decay. Hence 
unseemly mouths, bad breath, imper- 
fect mastication. Everybody regrets 
it. What is the cause? I reply, want 
of cleanliness. A clean tooth never 
decays. The mouth is a warm place 
— 98°. Particles of meat between the 
teeth soon decompose. Gums and teeth 
must suffer. Perfect cleanliness will 
preserve the teeth to old age. How 
shall it be secured ? Use a quill pick, 
and rinse the mouth after eating. 
Brush and castile soap every morning ; 
the brush and simple water on going 
to bed. Bestow this trifling care upon 
your precious teeth, and you will keep 
them and ruin the dentists. Neglect, 



nu 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



it, and you will be sorry all your 
live^. Children forget. Watch them. 
The first teeth determine the character 
of the second set. Give them equal 
care. Sugar, acids, saleratus, and hot 
things, are nothing when compared 
with food decomposing between the 
teeth. Mercurialization may loosen 
the teeth, long use may wear them out, 
but keep them clean and they will 
never decay. This advice is worth 
more than thousands of dollars to 
every boy and girl. 

Camphorated Dentifrice. — Pre- 
pared chalk, one pound ; camphor, one 
or two drams. The camphor must be 
finely powdered by moistening it with 
a little spirit of wine, and then inti- 
mately mixing it with chalk. 

Myrrh Dentifrice. — Powdered cut- 
tlefish, one pound ; powdered myrrh, 
two ounces. 

American Tooth Powder. — Coral, 
cuttlefish bone, dragon's blood, of each 
eight drams ; burnt alum and red San- 
ders, of each four drams ; orris root, 
eight drams ; cloves and cinnamon, 
of each half a dram ; vanilla, eleven 
grains ; rosewood, half a dram ; rose 
pink, eight drams. All to be finely 
powdered and mixed. 

Quinine Tooth Powder. — Rose 
pink, two drams ; precipitated chalk, 
twelve drams ; carbonate of magnesia, 
one dram; quinine (sulphate), six 
grains. All to be well mixed to- 
gether. 

The chlorate of potash has now 
come into extensive use for the re- 
moval of fetid breath. It is chiefly 
used, diluted with water and alcohol, 
to rinse the mouth. It may be made 
by condensing chlorine gas in a solu- 
tion of potash. A solution of soda 
will answer nearly as well. 

Hair Dye, usually styled Co- 
lombian, Argentine, etc., etc. — 
Solution No. 1, Hydrosulphuret of 
ammonia, one ounce ; solution of 
potash, three drams ; distilled or rain 
water, one ounce (all by measure). 
Mix and put into small bottles, label- 
ling it No. 1. — Solution No. 2. Nitrate 
of silver, one dram ; distilled or rain 



water, two ounces. Dissolved and 
labelled No. 2. 

Directions How to Apply. — The solu- 
tion No. 1 is first ai>plied to the hair 
with a tooth-brush, and the application 
continued for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
The solution No. 2 is then brushed 
over, a comb being used to separate the 
hairs, and allow the liquid to come in 
contact with every part. Care must be 
taken that the liquid does not touch 
the skin, as the solution No. 2 pro- 
duces a permanent dark stain on all 
substances with which it comes in 
contact. If the shade is not sufficiently 
deep, the operation may be repeated. 
The hair should be cleansed from 
grease before using the dye. 

To Test Hair Dye. — To try the 
effect of hair dye upon hair of any 
color, cut off a lock and apply the 
dye thoroughly as directed above. This 
will be a guarantee of success, or will 
at least guard against failure. 

The Proper AppLiCAnoN of Hair 
Dyes. — The eflicacy of hair dyes de- 
pends as much upon their proper 
application as upon their chemical 
composition. If not evenly and pa- 
tiently applied, they give rise to a 
mottled and dirty condition of the 
hair, A lady, for instance, attempted 
to use the lime and litharge dye, and 
was horrified on the following morn- 
ing to find her hair spotted red and 
black, almost like the skin of a leopard. 
She wrote to us in great excitement 
and implored our aid. But what could 
we do ? The mixture had not been 
properly applied. Our own hair is 
becoming gray, and we don't mind tell- 
ing the reader what we intend to do : 
we have resolved to let it remain so, 
and bear " our gray hairs to the grave," 
deeming them to be no dishonor. 

Compounds to Promote the Growth 
of Hair. — Wlien the hair falls off, 
from diminished action of the scalp, 
prepurations of cantharides often prove 
useful ; they are sold under the names 
of Depuytren's Pomade, Cazenaze's 
Pomade, etc. The following directions 
are as wood as any of the more com- 
plicated recipes : 



THE TOILET. 



345 



Pomade against Baldness. — Beef 
marrow, soaked in several waters, 
melted and strained, half a pound ; 
tincture of cantharides (made by soak- 
ing for a week one dram of powdered 
cantharides in one ounce of proof- 
spirit), one ounce; oil of bergamot, 
twelve drops. 

Erasmus Wilson's Lotion 
AGAINST Baldness.— Eau-de-Cologne, 
tv/o ounces ; tincture of cantharides, 
two drams ; oil of lavender or rosemary, 
of either ten drops. These applications 
must be used once or twice a day for 
a considerable time ; but if the scalp 
become sore, they must be discontinued 
for a time, or used at longer intervals. 

Glycerine Cream. — This superior 
cosmetic is the well-known cold cream, 
with glycerine substituted for rose 
water. Melt together three ounces 
spermaceti, and half an ounce white 
wax, in half a pint of sweet almond- 
oil. Then remove from the fire, and 
stir in two ounces of glycerine; and 
when congealing, perfume with ten 
drops of attar of roses, or other attar 
that may be chosen. 

Pomade Rosat. — For the lips. — 
Melt together one ounce of white wax, 
two ounces oil of sweet almonds, and 
one and a half drams alkanet. Digest 
for several hours, strain, and add six 
drops attar of roses. 

Macassar Oil. — One quart oil of 
ben, one pint oil of noisette, half pint 
strong alcohol, half dram attar of roses, 
six drams attar of bergamot, five drams 
attar of Portugal, and six drams tinc- 
ture of musk. Mix together, digest, 
with alkanet root (for color), in a stop- 
pered bottle for a week, then strain 
and bottle. 

Marfit's Hair Tonic. — Scald one 
ounce of black tea with two quarts of 
boiling water ; strain, and add one and 
a half ounces glycerine, quarter of an 
ounce tincture of cantharides, and one 
pint of bay rura. Mix well by shaking, 
and then perfume. 

Shampoo Liquor. — This excellent 
wash for the hair is made by dissolving 
a quarter ounce carbonate of ammo- 
nia, and half an ounce of borax, in 



one pint of water, and adding thereto 
one ounce of glycerine, three pints New 
England rum, and one pint of bay 
rum. The hair having been moistened 
with this liquor, it is to be shampooed 
with the hands, until a slight lather is 
formed ; and the latter, being washed 
out with clean water, leaves the head 
clean, and the hair moist and glossy. 

Camphorated Chalk. — Tooth Pow- 
der. — A quarter pound prepared chalk, 
one pound powdered orris root, one 
ounce powered camphor. Reduce the 
camphor to fine powder by triturating 
it in a mortar with a little alcohol ; 
then add the other ingredients, and 
when the mixture is complete, sift 
through the finest sifting cloth. 

Violet Mouth-W.asn. — Tincture 
of orris, essence of rose, and alcohol, 
each four ounces, attar of almonds, 
three drops ; mix. 

Violet Powder. — Three pounds 
wheat starch, half pound powdered 
orris ; mix together, and add one dram 
attar of lemon, and half ounce each of 
attar of bergamot and cloves. 

Pearl Powder. — Prepared chalkj 
finely bolted -and perfumed. The 
French add oxides of zinc and bismuth, 
each one ounce to the pound of chalk. 

Carmine Rouge. — One ounce finely 
bolted talc (French chalk), half dram 
carmine; mix together with a little 
warm, thin solution of gum traga- 
canth. For lighter shades, the pro- 
portion of carmine must be increased. 
For commoner pastes, rose pink re- 
places the carmine as coloring matter. 
It may be made into a pomade. 

Bloom of Roses. —Half a dram best 
carmine, digested with one ounce of 
strong ammonia, in a tightly-stoppered 
bottle, for two days, at the ordinary 
temperature of the atmosphere ; then 
add a quarter pint of rose water, and 
one ounce essence of rose. After a 
week's repose, the upper stratum of 
clear liquid may be decanted and bot- 
tled. 

Bandoline, or Fixature. — Several 
preparations are used; the following 
are the best: — 1. Mucilage of clean 
picked Irish moss, made by boiling a 



J46 



YOU ask! — I'll tellT 



quarter of an ounce of the moss in one 
quart of water until suflSciently thick, 
rectified spirit in the proportion of a 
teaspoonful to each bottle, to prevent 
its being mildewed. The quantity of 
spirit varies according to the time it re- 
quires to be kept. — 2. Gum tragacanth, 
one dram and a half; water, half a 
pint; proof-spirit (made by mixing 
equal parts of rectified spirit and 
water), three ounces ; attar of roses, ten 
drops ; soak for twenty- four hours and 
strain. 

Excellent Hair Wash. — Take one 
ounce of borax, half an ounce of cam- 
phor; powder these ingredients fine, 
and dissolve them in one quart of boil- 
ing water ; when cool, the solution will 
be ready for use ; damp the hair fre- 
quently. This wash effectually cleanses, 
beautifies, and strengthens the hair, 
preserves the color, and prevents early 
baldness. The camphor will form into 
lumps after being dissolved, but the 
water will be sufficiently impregnated. 

Hair Oils. — Rose Oil. — Olive oil, 
one pint ; attar of roses, five to sixteen 
drops. Essence of Hergamot, being 
much cheaper, is commonly used in- 
stead of the more expensive attar of 
roses. 

Red Rose Oil. — The same. The 
oil colored before scenting, by steeping 
in it one dram of alkanet root, with a 
gentle heat, until the desired tint is pro- 
duced. 

Oil of Roses. — Olive oil, two 
pints ; attar of roses, one dram ; oil of 
rosemary, one dram : mix. It may be 
colored red by steeping a little alkanet 
root in the oil (with heat) before scent- 
ing it. 

POMATUMS. — For making poma- 
tums, the lard, fat, suet, or marrow used 
must be carefully prepared by being 
melted with as gentle a heat as pos- 
sible, skimmed, strained, and cleared 
from the dregs which are deposited on 
standing. 

Common Pomatum. — Mutton suet, 
prepared as above, one pound ; lard, 
three pounds; carefully melted together, 
and stirred constantly as it cools, two 
ounces of bergamot being added. 



Hard Pomatum. — Lard and mut- 
ton suet carefully prepared, of each 
one pound ; white wax, four ounces : 
essence of bergamot, one ounce. 

Castor Oil Pomade. — Castor oil, 
four ounces; prepared lard, two ounces ; 
white wax, two drams ; bergamot, two 
drams ; oil of lavender, twenty drops. 
Melt the fat together, and on cooling 
add the scents, and stir till cold. 

Hair Curling Liquid. — Take 
borax, two ounces; gum arable, one 
dram ; add hot water (not boiling), 
one quart ; stir, and as soon as the in- 
gredients are dissolved, add three table- 
spoonfuls of strong spirits of camphor. 
On retiring to rest wet the hair with 
the above liquid, and roll it in twists 
of paper, as usual. 

Superfluous Hair. — Any remedy 
is doubtful ; many of those commonly 
used are dangerous. The safest plan 
is as follows : The hairs should be per- 
severingly plucked up by the roots, 
and the skin, having been washed 
twice a day with warm soft water, 
without soap, should be treated with 
the following wash, commonly called 
MILK OF ROSES : Beat four ounces of 
sweet almonds in a mortar, and add 
half an ounce of white sugar during 
the process ; reduce the whole to a 
paste by pounding ; then add, in small 
quantities at a time, eight ounces of 
rose water. The emulsion thus formed 
should be strained through a fine cloth, 
and the residue again pounded, while 
the strained fluid should be bottled in 
a large stoppered vial. To the pasty 
mass in the mortar add half an ounce 
of sugar, and eight ounces of rose 
water, and strain again. This pro- 
cess must be repeated three times. To 
the thirty-two ounces of fluid, add 
twenty grains of the bichloride of mer- 
cury, dissolved in two ounces of alco- 
hol, and shake the mixture for five 
minutes. The fluid should be applied 
with a towel, immediately after wash- 
ing, and the skin gently rubbed with a 
dry cloth till perfectly dry. Wilson, 
in his work on Healthy Skin, writes as 
follows : " Substances are sold by the 
perfumers called depilatories, which 



THE TOILET. 



317 



are represented as having the power 
of removing hair. But the hair is not 
destroyed by these means — the root and 
that part of the shaft implanted within 
the skin still remain, and are ready to 
shoot up with increased vigor as soon 
as the depilatory is withdrawn. The 
effect of the depilatory is the same, in 
this respect, as that of a razor, and the 
latter is, unquestionably, the better 
remedy. It must not, however, be 
imagined that depilatories are negative 
remedies, and that, if they do no per- 
manent good, they are, at least, harm- 
less ; that is not the fact ; they are vio- 
lent irritants, and require to be used 
with the utmost caution. After all, 
the safest depilatory is a pair of 
tweezers, and patience." 

To Clean Ilair Brushes. —As hot 
water and soap very soon soften the 
hair, and rubbing completes its de- 
struction, use soda, dissolved in cold 
water, instead ; soda having an affinity 
for grease, it cleans the brush with 
\ittle friction. Do not set them near 
the fire, nor in the sun, to dry, but 
after shaking them well, set them on 
the point of the handle in a shady 
place ; or wash them in a mixture of 
one part hartshorn and two parts 
water; this will clean them well and 
stiffen the bristles. 

How to Take Care of your Hat. — 
1. Should you get caught in a shower, 
always remember to brush your hat 
well while wet. When dry, brush the 
glaze out, and gently iron it over with 
a smooth flat iron. 2. If your hat is 
VERY wet, or stained with sea water, 
get a basin of clean cold water, and a 
good stiff brush ; wash it well all over, 
but be careful to keep the nap straight ; 
brush it as dry as you can, then put it 
on a peg to dry. When dry, brush 
the glaze out, and gently iron it over 
as above. 3. Should you get a spot 
of grease on your hat, just drop one 
drop of benzine on the place, and then 
rub it briskly with a piece of cloth 
until out. 4. Should you be travel- 
ling, always tie your hat up in your 
handkerchief before putting it into 
your case; this will save it from get- 



ting rubbed or damaged through the 
friction of the rail or steamboat. 5. 
Never put your hat flat on the Vim, 
as it will spoil its shape; but always 
hang it up on a peg. 6. Nevei put 
your hat, wet or dry, in front of the 
fire, as it will soften it, and throw it 
all out of shape. 7. Before putting 
your hat down, be careful to see if the 
place is free from spots of grease, beer, 
sugar, etc., as these things often spoil 
a good hat more than a twelvemonths' 
wear, and are often very difficult to 
remove. These simple rules will save 
a good hat for a very long time. 

The Management of the Finger- 
Nails. — The correct management of 
the nails is to cut them of an ova) 
shape, corresponding with the shape 
of the fingers. Never allow them to 
grow too long, as it makes it difficult 
to keep them clean ; nor too short, as 
it causes the tips of the fingers to be- 
come flattened, and enlarged, and turn 
upwards, which gives the hand an 
awkward appearance. The skin which 
grows in a semicircle on the top of the 
nail requires much attention, as it is 
often drawn on with its growth, drag- 
ging the skin below the nail so tight as 
to cause it to divide into what are 
termed agnails. This is to be pre- 
vented by separating the skin from the 
nail by a blunt half- circular instru- 
ment. Many persons cut this pellicle, 
which causes it to grow very thick and 
uneven, and sometimes damages the 
growth of the nail. It is also injurious 
to prick under the nail with a pin, or 
penknife, or point of the scissors. The 
nails should be scrubbed with a brush 
not too hard, and the semicircular flesh 
pressed back with the towel without 
touching the quick. This method, if 
pursued daily, will keep the nails in 
proper order. When the nails are 
badly formed or ill-shaped, the ridges 
or fibres should be scraped and rubbed 
with a lemon, and well dried after- 
wards ; »ut if the nails are very thin, 
the above remedy will not do them 
any good, but might cause them to 
split. 
The Hands. — Take a wineglassfuJ 






YOU ask! — i'll, tell! 



of eau-de-Cologne, and another of 
lemon-juice ; then scrape two cakes of 
brown Windsor soap to a powder, and 
mix well in a mould. When hard, it 
will be an excellent soap for whitening 
the hands. 

To WMten the Nails. — Diluted 
sulphuric acid, two drams ; tincture 
of myrrh, one dram; spring water, 
four ounces : mix. First cleanse with 
white soap, and then dip the fingers 
into the mixture. A delicate hand is 
one of the chief points of beauty ; and 
these aj)plications are really effective. 

STAINS may be removed from the 
hands by washing them in a small 
quantity of oil of vitriol and cold water 
without aoap. 

To Preserve the Hands Dry for 
Delicate Work. — Take club moss 
(lycopodium) in fine powder and rub 
a little over the hands. 

Feet Wash. — The feet of some 
persons naturally evolve a disagree- 
able odor. Wash them in warm water, 
to which a little hydrochloric acid or 
chloride of lime has been added. 

GARTERS, by the pressure which 
they exert, retard the passage of the 
arterial blood to the feet and prevent 
its return, giving rise to cold feet and 
congestion of the head or some internal 
organ. They frequently occasion en- 
largement of the veins. Garters should 
be abolished. The stockings can be 
attached to the drawers, or kept in 
place by various other methods. Tight 
ooots and shoes are another almost 
universal mode of applying pressure, 
resulting in deformed feet, corns, 
bunions, etc. It also prevents the cir- 
culation of the blood, and is another 
cause of cold feet. Shoes should be 
made to fit the feet, and not the feet 
made to fit the fashionable shape of 
the shoe, and should be large enough 
to allow the free circulation of the 
blood. 

Woollen Wristlets. — A pair of 
warm wool wristlets is about equal to 
an additional garment for keeping the 
whole body warm. The blood which 
the heart pumps into the arteries with 
each beat comes very near the surface 



wherever you can feel the pulse beat- 
ing, as at the wrists. Keep these warm 
and the whole circulation is favorably 
affected. 

Blistered Hands and Feet. — As a 
remedy against blistering of hands in 
rowing,orfishing, etc., or of feet in walk- 
ing, the quickest is, lighting a tallow 
candle, and letting the tallow drop into 
cold water (to purify it, it is said, from 
salt), then rubbing the tallow to the 
hands or feet, mixed with brandy or any 
other strong spirits. For mere tender- 
ness nothing is better than the above, 
or vinegar a little diluted with water. 

Fitting Boots and Shoes to the 
Feet. — Whenever one procures a pair 
of new boots or shoes which do not fit 
the feet uniformly, let the part or parts 
of the upper leather which set uncom- 
fortably tight be thoroughly saturated 
with hot water while the boots are on 
the feet; then let them be worn until 
the leather has become quite dry. If 
by wetting once the upper leather does 
not stretch so as to accommodate itself 
to the formation of the feet, let the 
process be repeated. In some instances 
it will be well to wet all the upper 
leather. But let it be remembered 
that if boots or shoes are allowed to 
dry when not on one's feet, the leather 
will shrink so that it will sometimes 
be impracticable to get them on the 
feet until the leather has been wetted 
and stretched. 

When one has a pair of rather hea^•>' 
boots, before the leather is oiled or 
blacked, let the upper part be soaked 
for a few minutes in warm water, then 
let the boots be worn until the leather 
has become quite dry, after which oil 
and black them, and they will fit the feet 
far more satisfactorily than they can 
ever be made to fit without wetting 
and drying while they are being worn. 
To prevent the soles from shrinking 
they should be well saturated with 
linseed oil before they are worn. If 
this is not done, they will sometimes 
shrink half an inch in length; this ac- 
counts for boots becoming too short 
for the feet. 

The Science of Blacking Yoni 



THE TOILET. 



349 



Boots. — By a Member of the Boot- 
black Brigade. —Don't do it in the sun- 
shine, for it won't shine your boots. 
The warmth dries the blacking rapidly 
and prevents a good polish. Boots, to 
retain their polish, should be taken 
oflF the feet and allowed to become dry 
before polishing, and when this pro- 
cess is completed, they ought not to 
be worn until the moisture in the 
polish has evaporated. If they are 
worn immediately the heat from the 
foot will force the moisture out through 
the polish, and cause it to assume a 
dull appearance. 

Care for the Feet. — Many are 
careless in the keeping of the feet. If 
they wash them once a week they think 
they are doing well. They do not con- 
sider that the largest pores of the system 
are located in the bottom of the foot, 
and that the most offensive matter is 
discharged through the pores. They 
wear stockings from the beginning to 
the end of the week without change, 
which will become completely satu- 
rated with offensive matter. Ill health 
is generated by such treatment of the 
feet. The pores are not only repel- 
lants, but absorbents, and this fetid 
matter, to a greater or less extent, is 
taken back into the system. The feet 
should be washed every day with pure 
water only, as well as the arm - pits, 
from which an offensive odor is also 
emitted, unless daily ablution is prac- 
ticed. Stockings should not be worn 
more than a day or two at a time. 
They may be worn for one day, and 
then aired and sunned and worn 
another day, if necessary. If you have 
cold feet, immerse them morning and 
evening in cold water, rub with a 
rough towel, and run about your room 
till they warm. In one month you 
will be entirely relieved. All these 
red pepper and mustard applications 
are like rum to the stomach, — relieve 
you to-day, but leave you colder to- 
morrow. But if cold feet proceed from 
moisture (perspiration), cotton stock- 
ings should be worn over woollen ones. 
The woollen stockings will absorb the 
moisture as it accumulates in the cot- 



ton sock, and keep the latter compara- 
tively dry. 

Effect of Flannel on the Skin. — 
Dr. Fox remarks that under the use 
of flannel, local heat is intensified, and 
itching often increased and kept up. 
He gives us a practical rule : " When- 
ever you have a congestive state of 
the skin, or any disposition to neuro- 
sis, take off the flannel and place it, if 
necessary, outside the linen; this will 
prevent any catching cold." 

Why Run up Stairs ? — We do not 
run in the street, nor in the park or 
garden. Why then run up stairs, and 
then complain that the stairs are so 
high? It is diflicult to answer this 
question ; nevertheless, American peo- 
ple generally do run up stairs, while 
foreigners are well satisfied with walk- 
ing up. Servants frequently complain 
of the height of the stairs, and leave 
their places in consequence. Houses 
of six and eight stories are now built 
in American cities as they are in 
Paris and Edinburgh. Now, there is 
really but little more difficulty in 
ascending several flights of stairs than 
there is in walking a straight line, 
provided we take sufficient time to do 
it, which should be about twice as long 
as we should be in walking the same 
distance in the street. Walk up stairs 
slowly, rest at each landing, again 
walk steadily, and you will reach the 
top flight without exhaustion or fatigue. 

EAZORS. — Engineers, as a clasa^ 
were the first to head the modern 
" beard movement " in this country ; 
but many may like to read the follow- 
ing extract from a little work by Mr. 
Kingsbury, a practical razor-maker: — 
" The edge of a razor, a penknife, and 
every other very keen instrument,, 
consists of a great number of minute 
points, commonly called teeth, which,, 
if the instrument is in itself good, and 
in good condition, follow each other 
through its whole extent with great 
order and closeness, and constitute, by 
their unbroken regularity, its excessive 
keenness. The edge of such an instru- 
ment acts on the beard, the skin, or 
anything else, not so much by th^ 



550 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



direct applicatiou of weight or force, 
as being drawn, even slightly, along it ; 
because by this operation the fine teeth 
of which it consists pass in quick 
succession, in the same direction, and 
over the same part of the substance. 
My readers will be convinced of this 
if they will make the following ex- 
periment on their glove or their hand, 
as they like best : — Let them hold 
the razor either perpendicularly or 
obliquely, and press on it with some 
considerable force in a direct line from 
right to left, and they will have no great 
reason to fear the consequences. But 
let them move it from that direction — 
let them draw it toward them, or push 
it from them, in the smallest degree, 
in the gentlest manner, and it will in- 
stantly make an incision. When they 
have made this experiment, they will 
be convinced of the truth of what I 
have asserted, namely, that in the 
operation of shaving, very little weight 
and even very little force are neces- 
sary." Hence it follows that the best 
\azor will have the teeth of its edge 
set almost as regularly as a good saw, 
and that the best test in buying a 
razor is to examine the edge by 
means of a strong magnifying-glass. 
This also explains the good effect on 
the keenness of a razor caused by 
dipping it In hot water, which neces- 
sarily clears the edges of any small 
clogging substances. 

Removinff a Tight Finger Ring. 
— It is seldom necessary to file off a 
ring which is too tight to readily pass 
the joint of the finger. If the finger 
is swollen, apply cold water to reduce 
the intlammation, then wrap a small 
rag wet in hot water around the ring, 
to expand the metal, and soap the 
finger. A needle threaded with strong 
silk can then be passed between the 
ring and finger, and a person holding 
the two ends, and pulling the silk 
while slowly sliding it around the 
periphery of the ring, may readily 
remove the ring. If the ring is a 

f)lain hoop, this process is easy; if it 
jas a setting or protuberance, more 
care will be required. Another method 



is to pass a piece of sewing silk UDd^r 
the ring, and wind the thread, in 

pretty close spirals, and snugly, around 
the finger to the end. Then take the 
lower end — that below the ring — and 
begin unwinding. The ring is certain 
to be removed, unless the silk is very 
weak. The winding compresses the 
finger, and renders the operation less 
difficult. 

How to Take Care of your "Watch. 
— In the first place, see that the key 
is well fitted, and do not carry it in 
your pocket, but keep it in some place 
where dirt or dust will not reach it, or 
the dirt will soon find its way into the 
watch, and injure it. Wind it slowly, 
and at the same time every day — (a 
good plan is to keep the key hanging 
in the chamber, and wind the watch 
every night on going to bed). Do not 
let the watch lie on its back, but hang 
it up in the same position it is carried 
in the pocket. Do not hang it against a 
wall, or other hard surface, or the jar 
will soon spoil the watch. Heat ex- 
pands and cold contracts all metals, — 
a watch should, therefore, be kept at 
an equal temperature. When carried 
in the pocket, it is in a moderately- 
warm place; it should therefore be 
hung up in a moderately warm place 
when not worn. Do not move the 
hands of a chronometer or duplex 
watch backward ; in fact, it is best not 
to turn the hands of any watch back- 
ward, or forward either, to any extent; 
it had better be allowed to run down, 
and then wind it up at the time indi- 
cated on its face. If a watch runs 
too slow, take it into a warm, dry 
room, free from dust, open it carefully, 
and move the regulator a trifle toward 
the place where marked fast. If it 
runs too fast, move it a little to where 
marked slow. Move it as gently as 

Possible, and a little at a time, for it is 
etter to have to re-move it three times 
in one direction, than to move it too 
far, and have to re-move it back. The 
less a watch is opened the better. In 
fact, a good rule with a watch is to 
" let it alone as much as possible." 
The above rules being attended to, and 



EVERY-DAY RECEIPTS. 

Practical Hints about Household and Farm Work— Things Every 
Housewife and Farmer Should Know How to Do. 



STAINING.— General Observa- 
tions. — When alabaster, marble, and 
other stones are colored, and the stain 
is required to be deep, it should be 
poured on boiling hot, and brushed 
equally over every part, if made with 
water ; if with spirit, it should be ap • 
plied cold, otherwise the evaporation 
being too rapid, would leave the color- 
ing matter on the surface, without any, 
or very little, being able to penetrate. 
In grayish or brownish stones, the 
stain will be wanting in brightness, 
because the natural color combines 
with the stain ; therefore, if the stone 
be a pure color, the result will be a 
combination of the color and stain. In 
staining bone or ivory, the colors will 
take better before than after polishing ; 
and if any dark spots appear, they 
should be rubbed with chalk, and the 
article dyed again, to produce uni- 
formity of shade. On removal from 
the boiling-hot dye-bath, the bone 
should be immediately plunged into 
cold water, to prevent cracks from the 
heat, li paper or parchment is stained, 
a broad varnish brush should be em- 
ployed, to lay the coloring on evenly. 
When the stains for wood are required 
to be very strong, it is better to soak 
and not brush them ; therefore, if for 
inlaying or fine work, the wood should 
be previously split or sawed into proper 
thicknesses ; and when directed to be 
brushed several times over with the 
stains, it should be allowed to dry 
between each coating. When it is 
wished to render any of the stains 
more durable and beautiful, the work 
should be well rubbed with Dutch or 



common rushes after it is colored, and 
then varnished with seed-lac varnish, 
or if a better appearance is desired, 
with three coats of the same, or shellac 
varnish. Common work only requires 
frequent rubbing with linseed oil and 
woollen rags. The remainder, with the 
exception of glass, will be treated of in 
this paper. 

Alabaster, Marble, and Stone, 
may be stained of a yellow, red, green, 
blue, purple, black, or any of the com- 
pound colors, by the stains used for 
wood. 

Bone and Ivory. — Black. — 1. Lay 
the article for several hours in a strong 
solution of nitrate of silver, and expose 
to the light. 2. Boil the article for 
some time in a stained decoction of 
logwood, and then steep it in a solution 
of persulphate or acetate of iron. 3. 
Immerse frequently in ink, until of 
sufficient depth of color. 

Bone and Ivory. Blue. — 1. Im- 
merse for some time in a dilute solu- 
tion of sulphate of indigo — partly 
saturated with potash — and it will be 
fully stained. 2. Steep in a strong so- 
lution of sulphate of copper. 

Bone and Ivory. Oreen. — 1. Dip 
blue-stained articles for a short time in 
nitro-hydrochlorate of tin, and then in 
a hot decoction of fustic. 2. Boil in a 
solution of verdigris in vinegar until 
the desired color is obtained. 

Bone AND Ivory. Red. — 1. Dip the 
articles first in the tin mordant used in 
dyeing, and then plunge into a hot de- 
coction of Brazil wood — half a pound 
to a gallon of water — or cochineal. 2. 
Steep in red ink until sufliciently 
351 



352 



YOU ask! — I'll tei.l! 



stained. 

Bone and Ivory. Scarlet. — Use 
lac dye instead of the preceding. 

Bone and Ivory. Violet. — Dip in 
the tin mordant, and then immerse in 
a decoction of logwood. 

Bone and Ivory. Yellow. — 1. Im- 
pregnate with nitro-hydrochlorate of 
tin, and then digest with heat in a 
strained decoction of fustic. 2. Steep 
for twenty-four hours in a strong solu- 
tion of the neutral chromate of potash, 
and then plunge for some time in a 
boiling solution of acetate of lead. 3. 
Boil the articles in a solution of alum 
— a pound to half a gallon — and then 
immerse for half an hour in the follow- 
ing mixture: — Take half a pound of 
turmeric, and a quarter of a pound of 
pearlash ; boil in a gallon of water. 
When taken from this, the bone must 
be again dipped in the alum solution. 

To Restore Faded Writing.— 
When writing by common ink has 
become faded by age, so as to be nearly 
or quite illegible, it may be restored to 
its original hue by moistening it with 
a camel's-hair pencil or feather dipped 
in tincture of galls, or a solution of 
ferrocyanide of potassium, slightly 
acidulated with hydrochloric acid. 
Either of these washes should be very 
carefully applied, so that the ink may 
not spread. 

Sharpening Lead Pencils.— A nar- 
row blade — a pen-blade — should be 
used for this purpose, as the back of a 
wide blade is almost certain to break 
the lead point just before the point is 
finished. A little thought will readily 
show the reason of this. 

Removing Corks from Bottles. — 
Sometimes a cork is pushed down into 
the bottle or vial which it is desirable 
to remove. A very effectual way to do 
it is to insert a strong twine in a loop 
and engage the cork in any direction 
most convenient. It can then be 
withdrawn by a " strong pull," the 
cork generally yielding sufficiently to 
pjuss through the neck. 

Loosening Ground Glass Stopples. 
— Sometimes the ground gla.ss stopples 
of bottles become, from one cause or 



another, fixed in the neck, and cannot 
be removed by pulling or torsion. An 
efiectual method is to wrap a rag wet 
with hot water around the neck, and 
let it remain a few seconds. The heat 
will expand the neck of the bottle, 
when the stopple can be removed be- 
fore the heat penetrates the stopple 
itself 

SaUINTING.- Squinting fre- 
quently arises from the unequal 
strength of the eyes, the weaker eye 
being turned away from the ob- 
ject, to avoid the fatigue of exer- 
tion. Cases of squinting of long 
standing have often been cured by 
covering the stronger eye, and thereby 
compelling the weaker one to exer- 
tion. 

Method of Ascertaining the State 
of the Lungs. — Persons desirous of 
ascertaining the true state of the lungs 
are directed to draw in as much breath 
as they conveniently can ; they are 
then to count as far as they are able, 
in a slow and audible voice, without 
drawing in more breath. The number 
of seconds they can continue counting 
must be carefully observed ; in a con- 
sumptive, the time does not exceed ten, 
and is frequently less than six seconds; 
in pleurisy and pneumonia, it ranges 
from nine to four seconds. When the 
lungs are in a sound condition, the time 
will range as high as from twenty to 
thirty-five seconds. 

To Avoid Catching Cold. — Accus- 
tom yourself to the use of sponging 
with cold water every morning on first 
getting out of bed. It should be fol- 
lowed by a good deal of rubbing with 
a wet towel. It has considerable- 
effect in giving tone to the skin, anJ 
maintaining a proper action in it, 
and thus proves a safeguard to the in- 
jurious influence of cold and sudden 
changes of temperature. Sir Astley 
Cooper said, " The methods by whick 
I have preserved my own health are- 
temperance, early rising, and sponging 
the body every morning with cold 
water, immediately after getting out 
of bed, — a practice which I have 
adopted for thirty years 



FARM RECIPES. 



To Find the Age of a Horse.— The 

colt is born witn twelve grinders. 
When four front teeth have made their 
appearance the colt is twelve days old, 
and when the next four appear it is 
four weeks old. When the corner teeth 
appear, it is eight months old ; and 
when the latter have attained the 
height of the front teeth it is a year 
old. The two-year old colt has the 
kernel (the dark substance in the mid- 
dle of the tooth's crown) ground or 
worn out of all the front teeth. In 
the third year the middle front teeth 
are being shifted, and when three 
years old, these are substituted for the 
horse teeth. In the fourth year, the 
next four are shifted ; and in the fifth 
year the corner teeth are shifted. In 
the sixth year the kernel is worn out 
of the middle front teeth, and the 
bridle teeth have now attained their 
fiill growth. At seven years a hook 
has been formed on the corner teeth of 
the upper jaw ; the kernel of the teeth 
next to the middle is worn out, and 
the bridle teeth begin to wear off. At 
eight years of age the kernel is worn 
out of all the lower front teeth, and 
begins to decrease in the middle 
upper fronts. In the ninth year the 
kernel has wholly disappeared from 
the upper middle front teeth ; the 
hook on the corner teeth has increased 
in size, and the bridle teeth lose their 
point. In the tenth year the kernel 
has worn out of the teeth next to the 
middle fronts of the upper jaw ; and 
in the eleventh year the kernel has 
entirely disappeared from the corner 
teeth of the same jaw. At twelve 
years the crowns of all the front teeth 
in the lower jaw have become triangu- 
lar, and the bridle teeth are much 
worn down. As the horse advances 
in age, the gums shrink away from the 
teeth, which appear long and narrow, 
and the kernel becomes changed into 
darkish points. Gray hairs increase in 
the forehead, and the chin becomes an- 
gular. 

To Ascertain the Age of Sheep.— 
The age of sheep may be known by 
the front teeth, which are eight in 
23 



number, and appear the first year, all 
of a size. In the second year the two 
middle ones fall out, and are sup- 
planted by two large ones. During 
the third year a small tooth appears 
on each side. In the fourth year the 
large teeth are six in number. In the 
fifth year all the front teeth are large, 
and in the sixth year the whole begin 
to get worn. 

To Make a Sheep Own a Lamo. - 
Sometimes it is desirable to make one 
sheep own the lamb of another, but 
often it is a difficult task. The fol- 
lowing experiment has been tried, 
was easily conducted, and proved a 
perfect success : — A sheep lo«t her 
lamb ; in a few days a yearlii^g 
dropped a lamb, which she did not 
own, and, in fact, had no milk for it. 
The lamb was taken, immediately after 
it was dropped, and sprinkled with 
fine salt, and then placed with the 
sheep that had lost her lamb. In a 
short time she was as fond of it as she 
had been of her own, and took the 
greatest care of her adopted charge. 

Feeding Horses. — The London 
Omnibus Company have lately made 
a report on feeding horses, which dis- 
closes some interesting information, 
not only to farmers, but to every 
owner of a horse. As a great number 
of horses are now used in the army for 
cavalry, artillery, and draught pur- 
poses, the facts stated are of great 
value at the present time. 

The London Company uses no less 
than six thousand horses ; three thou- 
sand of this number had for their feed 
bruised oats and cut hay and straw, 
and the other three thousand got whole 
oats and hay. The allowance accorded 
to the first was: bruised oats, 16 lbs. ; 
cut hay, 7J lbs. ; cut straw, 2^ lbs. 
The allowance accorded to the second : 
unbruised oats, 19 lbs. ; uncut hay, 13 
lbs. The bruised oats, cut hay and 
cut straw amounted to 26 lbs. ; and the 
unbruised oats, etc., to 32 lbs. The 
horse which had bruised oats, with 
cut hay and straw, and consumed 26 
lbs. per day, could do the same work 
as well, and was. kept in as good con- 



354 



vou ask! — i'll tell! 



dition, as the horse which received 32 
lbs. per day. Here was a saving of 6 
lbs. per day on the feeding of each 
horse receiving bruised oats, cut hay 
and cut straw. The advantage of 
bruised oats and cut hay over un bruised 
oata and uncut hay is estimated at five 
cents per day on each horse, amount- 
ing to three hundred dollars per day 
for the Company's six thousand horses. 
It is by no means an unimportant result 
with which this experiment has sup- 
plied us. To the farmer who expends 
a large sum in the support of horse- 
power, there are two points this ex- 
periment clearly establishes, which, in 
practice, must be profitable : first, the 
saving of food to the amount of 6 lbs. 
per day ; and second, no loss of horse- 
power arising from that saving. 

To Prevent Flies from Teasing 
Horses. — Take two or three small 
handfuls of walnut leaves, upon which 
pour two or three quarts of soft cold 
water; let it infuse one night, and 
pour the whole next morning into a 
kettle, and let it boil for fifteen min- 
utes. When cold, it will be fit for use. 
No more is required than to wet a 
sponge, and before the horse goes out 
of the stable, let those parts which are 
most irritated be smeared over with 
the liquor. 

A Mere Stumble. — When a horse 
stumbles, never raise your voice — the 
creature dreads its master's chiding. 
Never jog the reins — the mouth of the 
horse is far more sensitive than the 
human lips. Never use the lash — the 
horse is so timid, that the slightest 
correction overpowers its reasoning 
faculties. Speak to the creature; re- 
assure the palpitating frame; seek to 
restore those perceptions which will 
form the best guard against any repe- 
tition of the faulty action. 

Power of a Horse's Scent. — 
There is one perception which a horse 
possesses that but little attention has 
been paid to, and that is the power of 
scent. With some horses it is as acute 
as with the dog, and for the benefit of 
those who have to drive nights, such 
fts physicians and others, this knowl- 



edge is invaluable. We never kaew 
it to fail, and we have ridden hundreds 
of miles dark nights; and, in consider- 
ation of this power of scent, this is our 
simple advice — never check your horse 
at nights, but give him a free head, 
and you may rest assured that he will 
never get off the road, and will carry 
you expeditiously and safe. 

Oats should always be bruised for 
an old horse, because through age and 
defective teeth, he cannot chew them 
properly. 

When your horse refuses food, after 
drinking, go no further that day, be- 
cause the poor creature is thoroughly 
beaten. 

Amount of Pork from a Bushel of 
Corn. — A friend of ours obtained a 
hundred pounds of pork from seven 
bushels of corn, or one pound of jjork 
from four and a half pounds of corn ; 
the grain was ground and moistened 
with water before feeding. Another, 
by wetting his meal with five times its 
weight oif hot water, and letting it 
stand twelve to eighteen hours before 
feeding, obtained one pound of poik, 
from two and a half jjounds of corn. 
Doubtless different results would be 
obtained from different breeds of 
swine. 

Raise More Ducks. — A farmer of 
considerable experience writes : — I 
could never understand why our farm- 
ers through the State did not keep 
ducks ; as a matter of profit they are 
more profitable than hens. It may be the 
impression that in order to keep ducks, 
a person must have a pond or stream 
of water near by, has deterred many 
from keeping them, but there is no 
need of anything of the kind. It is 
true that it is better to have a pond or 
stream — but you can raise ducks just 
as well elsewhere. I know of parties 
that are very successful in raising them 
— they have only a shallow tub set in 
the ground and filled from the jmmp 
occasionally. In fact, the trouble of 
raising ducks, and about the only one, 
is letting the young go into the water 
too soon after they leave the nest. 
When I speak of the profits from ducks, 



FARM RECIPES. 



355 



I do not have reference to the common 
duck that is seen every day. I mean 
a breed of ducks that will weigh twelve 
pounds to the pair, alive, such as the 
Kouen and Aylesbury, and both excel- 
lent layers, easily kept and reared, and 
being very large and excellent for the 
niarket, and it costs no more to rear 
them than the common ducks that will 
only weigh on the average about eight 
pounds to the pair. The Rouen is a 
very handsome duck in plumage ; the 
drake has a glassy green head and 
neck down to a white ring on his neck, 
and the lower part of his body is a 
beautiful green brown gray, and shaded 
with brown on the back. The duck is 
of a beautiful brown, with about every 
feather shaded on the outer edge with 
black. They are acknowledged the 
best of the varieties, laying very early 
and continuing through the season, and 
late in winter. The Aylesbury is 
pure white, both the duck and drake, 
and about the same size as the Rouen. 
Both become very familiar, and being 
very large and heavy, do not care to 
roam as much as the common kind. 

Care of Young Ducks. — Take three 
boards, about a foot wide, and make a 
yard, either square or triangular shaped, 
and put the hen and coop in one cor- 
ner of it. Keep the hen cooped until 
t,he ducklings are about two weeks 
old, then give her her liberty. She 
will stay with the ducklings some time 
longer. No more than twelve or four- 
teen ducklings should be kept in one 
yard, as they are apt to pile upon one 
another at night, and smother each 
other. The ducklings should be con- 
fined in a yard until they are well 
feathered, for if they go through wet 
grass they almost invariably die. The 
yard should be moved every two weeks, 
and care should be taken to have a 
good shelter in one corner. 

Raising Turkeys. — The turkey is 
the most tender when young, and most 
difficult to raise of all the domestic 
fowls ; yet with proper care in setting 
the eggs under game hens and cooping 
the brood at night regularly, while the 
turkeys are young, they may be easily 



reared in great abundance. Never feed 
the young turkeys with boiled eggs or 
corn meal dough, or wheat bread 
crumbs. They need very little food 
of any kind under seven days of age, 
and should have nothing but sour milk 
set in pans. At about a week or ten 
days give them also wheat screenings 
or crumbs soaked in sour milk. Let 
this be their only feed till they begin 
to feather, and then give them grain 
of any kind. Tie the hen (which has 
the young turkeys) to a peg off to her- 
self, with a coop near by her, so that 
she can enter at night to roost. At 
two weeks old let the hen loose to 
roam, and if she be a game hen she 
will do the work of rearing the»brood. 
To Make Hens Lay Perpetually. 
— Give to each hen half an ounce of 
fresh meat, chopped fine, once a day, 
while the ground is frozen that they 
cannot get worms or insects ; allow no 
roosters to run with them. They will 
require plenty of grain, water, gravel, 
and lime. Treated in this way it is 
said they will lay perpetually. 

Boiled oats, fried in fat, are recom- 
mended for laying hens as the very 
best food for the production of eggs. 

Choosing Hatching Eggs. — Eggs 
for hatching should be chosen of the 
fair average size usually laid by the 
hen they are from, any unusually large 
or small being rejected. Some hens 
lay immensely large eggs, and others 
small ones. A fat hen will always lay 
small eggs, which can only produce 
small and weakly chickens. Absolute 
size in oggs is, therefore, of but little 
importance. Round short eggs are 
usually the best to select ; very long 
eggs, especially if much pointed at the 
small end, almost always breed birds 
with some awkwardness in style of 
carriage. Neither should rough-shelled 
eggs be chosen ; they usually show 
some derangement of the organs, and 
are often sterile. Smooth-shelled eggs 
alone are proper for hatching. It is a 
farce to suppose that the sex of a bird 
can be determined by the shape of the 
egg- 
How the English Fatten Fowls. 



S5G 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



— Among the various modes of fatten- 
ing fowls which are from time to time 
presented to the public, none is more 
highly commended than the following, 
which is the method largely practised 
in England, and, it is said, always with 

freat economy and perfect success. 
n this method the custom is to put 
the fowls into coops as usual, but 
where they can get no gravel. Keep 
com in their feed-boxes all the time, 
and also give them cornmeal dough, 
well cooked, once a day. For drink 
give them fresh skimmed milk, with a 
sprinkling of charcoal, well pulverized, 
in it. Fed in this way, it is said they 
will fatten nicely in from ten to twelve 
days. If kept beyond that time it is 
customary to furnish them with gravel, 
to prevent them from falling away. 
One extensive English fowl-breeder 
states that he has tried this method 
for years, and has never known it to 
fail. In this method, as in all others, 
it is, of course, necessary that the 
fowls should occupy coops protected 
from the cold, and kept perfectly 
clean and dry. 

To impart a flavor to the flesh of 
fowls, such as constitutes the " game 
flavor " of the wild state, the Boston 
Journal of Chemistry recommends Cay- 
enne pepper, ground mustard, or 
ginger, to be added to their common 
food. 

Milk and Water. — It makes a 
great difference whether water is given 
to the cow or to the can. Dr. Dan- 
cel, in a communication to the French 
Academy of Sciences, adduces proof 
that the yield of milk can be consid- 
erably increased by giving salt to in- 
cite cows to drink large quantities of 
water, and by moistening their food,with 
very little if any of the peculiar effect 
jiroduced by the experiments of milk- 
men at the later stage of the operation. 
According to Dancel's observations, 
when a cow begins to give milk she 
drinks from eleven to as much as forty- 
live quarts of water per day more 
than before. All cows that drink 
fifty quarts per day were found to be 
excellent milkers, yielding nineteen 



to twenty-three quarts per day. Less 
than twenty-seven quarts invariably 
marked a very poor milker. Of course 
the experiment of artificial stimulation 
by means of salt was intended only 
for scientific purposes. The importance 
of an abundant and convenient supply 
of pure water at all times, as much aa 
the animal will take, is the practical 
deduction. 

A Dog's Bed.— The best bed which 
can be made for a dog, consists of dry, 
newly-made deal shavings ; a sackful 
of these may be had for a shilling at 
almost any carpenter's shop. The 
dog is delighted in tumbling about in 
them until he has made a bed to suit 
himself. Clean wood shavings will 
clean a dog as well as water, and fleas 
will never infest dogs that sleep upon 
fresh deal shavings. The turpentine and 
rosin in new pine soon drive them 
away. 

Cooked or Raw. —Where it is pos- 
sible to avoid it, meat should never be 
fed raw to dogs or fowls. It has the 
effect of making them quarrelsome. 
In addition to this, meat that is 
cooked is more nutritious than when 
fed raw. 

" Morning Milk,'* says an emi- 
nent German philosopher, " commonly 
yields some hundredths more cream 
than the evening's at the same tem- 
perature. That milked at noon fur- 
nishes the least. It would therefore 
be of advatitage, in making butter, 
etc., to employ the morning'c milk, 
and keep the evening's for domestic 
use." 

A little grated carrot, and a few 
lumps of white sugar, added to the 
cream in the churn, will add very 
much to the taste as well as the ap- 
pearance of the butter. 

Tanning Sheep-Skins. — For mats, 
take two long-wooled skins, make a 
strong suds, using hot water ; when it 
is cold, wash the skins in it, carefully 
squeezing them between the hands to 
get the dirt out of the wool ; then wash 
the soap out with clean cold water. Now 
dissolve alum and salt, each half a 
pound, with a little hot water, which 



FARM RECIPES. 



put in a tub of cold water suflficient to 
cover the skins, and let them soak in it 
over night, or twelve hours ; then hang 
over a pail to drain. When they are 
well drained, spread or stretch carefully 
over a board to dry. When a little 
damp, have one ounce, each, of salt- 
petre and alum, pulverized, and sprinkle 
the flesh side of each skin, rubbing in 
well ; then lay the flesh sides together 
and hang in the shade for two or three 
days, turning the under skin upper- 
most every day until perfectly dry. 
Then scrape the flesh side with a blunt 
knife, to remove any remaining scraps 
of flesh, trim off" projecting points, and 
rub the flesh side with pumice or rot- 
ten-stone, and with the hands; they 
will be very white and beautiful, suit- 
able for a door or carriage mat. They 
also make good mittens. Lamb-skins 
(or sheep-skins, if the wool be trimmed 
off" evenly to about one-half or three- 
fourths of an inch long,) make most 
beautiful and warm mittens for ladies 
or gentlemen. 

Furs may be taken from the first of 
October to the first of April. They are 
not good for furs the rest of the season, 
as the hair comes out. 

To Remove the Taste of New 
"Wood. — A new keg, churn, bucket, or 
other wooden vessel, will generally 
communicate a disagreeable taste to 
anything that is put into it. To pre- 
vent this inconvenience, first scald the 
vessel well with boiling water, letting 
the water remain in it till cold. Then 
dissolve some pearlash, or soda, in luke- 
warm water, adding a little bit of lime 
to it, and wash the inside of the vessel 
well with this solution. Afterward 
scald it well with plain hot water, and 
rinse it with cold before you use it. 

To Relieve Muscular Pain in 
Horses. — The thorn-apple plant is a 
very excellent remedy, as an external 
application, for the treatment of mus- 
cular pain, ligamentary lameness, 
eprain of the fetlock, etc. It is a 
remedy of great efficacy in chronic 
pains and inflammatory tumors. Four 
ounces of the plant to one pint of boil- 
ing water, are the proportions. When 



cool the parts are to be bathed often : 
when practicable a flannel is to be sat- 
urated with the fluid, bound on the 
affected parts, the whole to be covered 
with oiled silk. Thorn-apple is a deadly 
poison ; the bottle containing it should 
be so marked, that it may not be taken 
internally by mistake. 

Mange, or Scab. — This is denoted 
by the animal rubbing the hair off" about 
the eyes and other parts. The skin is 
scaly or scabby, sometimes appearing 
like a large seed- wart. 

Remedies. — Rub the spots with sul- 
phur and lard, after scraping and wash- 
ing with soap. 

When the skin is cracked, take sul- 
phur, one pound ; turpentine, quarter 
pound; unguentum (or mercurial oint- 
ment), two ounces ; linseed oil, one pint. 
Melt the turpentine and warm the oil, 
and when partly cooled, stir in the sul- 
phur ; when cold, add the unguentum, 
mixing all well. Rub this thoroughly 
with the hand on the parts affected. 

To Cure Scratches in Horses.— 
Scratches or grease may very often be 
cured by washing the legs with warm 
water and soap, and, after drying thor- 
oughly with a soft cloth, applying 
glycerine or lard perfectly free from 
salt. If this does not avail, a pound 
of " concentrated lye," or carbonate of 
potash, may be dissolved in two quarts 
of water, and put into a bottle. A 
quarter of a pint of this solution 
should be put into a pailful of cold 
water, and the horse's heels bathed 
with it night and morning. The legs 
should be dried immediately after the 
bathing, but considerable moisture will 
exude from the skin afterward. The 
stable must be kept clean, and no 
snow or ice allowed to remain on the 
legs. 

To Clean Canary Birds. — These 
pretty things are, like meaner objects, 
often covered with lice, and may be ef- 
fectually relieved of them by placing 
a clean white cloth over their cage at 
night. In the morning it will be cov- 
ered with small rel spots, so small as 
hardly to be seen, except by the aid 
of a glass. These are the lice, a 



35S 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



source of great annoyance to the 
birds. 

To Prevent Moths. — In the mouth 
of April or May, beat your fur gar- 
ments well with a small cane or elastic 
stick ; then wrap them up in linen, 
without pressing the fur too hard, and 
put betwixt the folds some camphor in 
small lumps ; then put your furs in 
this state in boxes well closed. When 
the furs are wanted for use, beat them 
well as before, and expose them for 
twenty-four hours to the air, which 
will take away the smell of the cam- 
phor. If the fur has long hair, as bear 
or fox, add to the camphor an equal 
quantity of black pepper in powder. 

To Banish Moths. — Moisten a 
piece of linen with spirits of turpen- 
tine, and place it in the bureau, or 
wardrobe, or place where the clothes 
are kept, for a day or two ; or sprinkle 
pimento (allspice) berries, or the seeds 
of the musk plant, among the clothes. 

To Destroy Ants. — Drop some 
quicklime on tne mouth of their* nest, 
and wash it in with boiling water ; or 
dissolve some camphor in spirits of 
wine, then mix with water, and pour 
into their haunts; or tobacco water, 
which hay been found eflfectual. They 
are averse to strong scents. Camphor 
will prevent their infesting a cupboard, 
or a sponge saturated with creosote. 
To prevent their climbing up trees, 
place a ring of tar about the trunk, or 
a circle of rag moistened occasionally 
with creosote. 

To Destroy Bugs. — Spirits of 
naphtha rubbed with a small painter's 
brush into every part of a bedstead is 
a certain way of getting rid of 
bugs. The mattress and bind- 
ing of the bed should be exam- 
ined, and the same process at- 
tended to, as they generally har- 
bor more in these parts than in 
the bedstead. Three penny- 
worth of naphtha is sufficient for 
one bed. 

Bugc Poison. — Proof -spirit, 
one pint; camphor, two ounces; 
oil of turpentine, four ounces; cor- 
rosive sublimate, one ounce. Mix. 



Clean. — A gentleman writes : — " 1 
have been for a long time troubled 
with bugs, and never could get rid of 
them by any clean and expeditious 
method, until a friend told me to sus- 
pend a small bag of camphor to the 
bed, just in the centre overhead. I did 
so, and the enemy was most effectually 
repulsed, and has not made his appear- 
ance since — not even for a reconnois- 
ance ! " We therefore give the informa- 
tion upon this method of getting rid of 
bugs, our informant being most confi- 
dent of its success in every case. 

To Destroy Flies in a room, take 
half a teaspoonful of black pepper in 
powder, one teaspoonful of brown 
sugar, and one tablespoonful of cream, 
mix them well together, and place 
them in the room on a plate, where 
the flies are troublesome, and they 
will soon disappear. 

Fly Plaster is made by mixing a 
cupful of molasses with a cupful of 
glue of the consistency used by car- 
penters ; boil the two together a few 
minutes, then spread it on brown 
paper, or old newspapers, — place it 
about the house, the flies will come to 
it and will stick. 

To Destroy Rats and Mice, place 
some chloride of lime at the entrance 
to their holes, then pour a little spirits 
of salt or other acid upon it ; the gas 
disengaged being heavier than air, will 
descend into the holes and destroy 
them. Chloride of lime strewed about 
a cellar infested by rats will generally 
drive them away, but the above may 
always be depended upon. 

A New Wheelbarrow. — We here 




SEW WHEELBARROW. 



FARM RECIPES. 



359 



give an illustration of a new wheel- 
barrow. It is so simple, the engraving 
fiilly explains itself. It makes a very 
strong, durable wheelbarrow, and al- 
most any one can make it. No iron 
stays of any kind are required, and no 
mortices or tenons to make. The 
farmer can make a wheelbarrow of 
this kind, any wet day, at a less ex- 
pense than he can repair one of the 
usual make. In fact it is easier, 
cheaper, and better, to make one than 
it is to borrow one. 

To Drive Rats Away. — The fol- 
lowing is said by a New York man to 
be a good plan to drive away rats: — 
" The floor near the rat-hole is covered 
with a thin layer of moist caustic of 
potassa. When the rats walk on this 
it makes their feet sore; these they 
lick with their tongues, which makes 
their mouths sore ; and the result is 
that they shun this locality, not alone, 
but appear to tell all the rats in the 
neighborhood about it, and eventually 
the house is entirely abandoned by 
them, notwithstanding the houses 
around may be teeming with rats." 

How to Catch Rats. — The follow- 
ing is said to be a cheap and effective 
way to catch rats : — Cover a common 
barrel with stiff, stout paper, tying the 
edge round the barrel ; place a board 
so that the rats may have easy access 
to the top ; sprinkle cheese parings or 
other feed for the rats on the paper for 
several days, until they begin to think 
that they have a right to their daily 
rations from this source; then place 
in the bottom of the barrel a piece of 
rock about six or seven inches high, 
filling with water until only enough 
of it projects above the water for one 
rat to lodge upon. Now replace the 
paper, first cutting a cross in the mid- 
dle, and the first rat that comes on the 
barrel top goes through into the water, 
and climbs on the rock. The paper 
comes back to its original position, 
and the second rat follows the first. 
Then begins a fight for the possession 
of the dry place on the stone, the noise 
of which attracts the others, who share 
the same fate. 



A New Rat Trap. — Take a smooth 
kettle, fill to within six inches of the 
top with water, cover the surface with 
chaff or bran, place it where the rata 
harbor, and it will drown all that get 
into it. Thirty-six were taken in one 
night by this process. 

Strew wild mint where you wish to 
keep the mice out, and they will never 
trouble you. 

To KILL cockroaches, take carbolic 
acid and powdered camphor in equal 
parts ; put them in a bottle ; they will 
become fluid. With a painter's brush 
of the size called a sash tool, put the 
mixture on the cracks or places where 
the " critters " hide ; they will come out 
at once. It ii wonderful to see the 
heroism with which they move to cer- 
tain death. Nothing more sublime in 
history ; the extirpation is certain and 
complete. While on this theme we 
would add that a mixture of carbolic 
acid with water — one -fourth acid 
three-fourths water — put on a dog, 
will kill fleas at once. 

How to Make Good Cement Walks. 
— Having previously graded and rolled 
the ground, heat your tar very hot, 
and with a long -handled dipper be- 
gin at one end of a pile of quite 
coarse gravel, pouring on the tar, 
quickly shovelling over and over so as 
to mix thoroughly. Cover the ground 
two and a half or three inches deep 
with the tarred gravel, and then roll. 
Clean the roller with a broom as you 
proceed. Then put on a layer of finer 
tarred gravel one and a half inches 
thick, and roll. Then sprinkle the 
surface with hot tar, spreading the tar 
with a broom ; finally, cover the sur- 
face with a light coat of fine sand, and 
your walk is complete, ready for use. 
It will improve in hardness by age. 
Provide portable tar kettles, screens, a 
roller not very heavy, and tools for 
systematic work, and you can hardly 
fail to derive satisfaction. 

A Novel Mode of Pasturing' 
Sheep. — A grazier has introduced th© 
following singular method of econo- 
mizing his green crops : — Over the 
whole field is placed a rack or fence, so 



8G0 



vou ask! — I'll tell! 



made that the sheep cannot jump 
over it, but must feed between the 
bars ; and when all the herbage within 
their reach is consumed, the rack is 
moved forward, so as to give them a 
fresh supply of forage. Regularity in 
cropping and great economy result 
from the employment of this singular 
system 

Wheat for a Barrel of Flour. — 
The question is often asked, how much 
wheat does it take to make a barrel of 
flour ? Sixteen bushels of winter wheat 
yielded three barrels and one hundred 
and three pounds of flour — at the rate 
of four bushels and fifteen pounds of 
wheat to the barrel. Of spring wheat, 
fifty bushels yielded eleven barrels of 
flour, being four bushels and thirty- 
two pounds per barrel. The wheat used 
was of a fair average quality. 

Whitewash for Stables.— Take a 
clean water-tight barrel, or other suit- 
able cask, and put into it half a bushel 
of lime. Slack it by pouring water 
over it, boiling hot, and in sufficient 
quantity to cover it five inches deep, 
and stir it briskly till thoroughly 
slacked. When the lime has been 
slacked, dissolve it in water, and add 
two pounds of sulphate of zinc, and 
one of common salt. These will cause 
the wash to harden, and prevent its 
cracking, which gives an unseemly ap- 
pearance to the work. If desirable, a 
beautiful cream color may be commu- 
nicated to the above wash, by adding 
three pounds of yellow ochre ; or a 
good pearl or lead color, by the addi- 
tion of lamp, vine, or ivory black. 
For fawn color, add four pounds 
umber — Turkish or American — the 
latter is the cheapest ; one pound In- 
dian red, and one pound of common 
lampblack. For common stone color, 
add four pounds raw umber, and two 
pounds lampblack. When applied to 
the outside of outhouses and to fences, 
it is rendered more durable by adding 
sweet milk, or some mucilage from 
flaxseed, — about a pint to the gallon 
will suflUce. All stables should be 
whitewashed once or twice every year, 
as the increased white light which it 



reflects tends to promote the health 
of animals. Hand round this infor- 
mation to every man who owns a horse 
or a cow ; because for one stable that 
is whitewashed, there are a hundred on 
the walls of which no brush was evet 
laid. 

Preservative Properties of 
Whitewash.— A friend says : " Some 
twenty years since, I caused to be 
heavily whitewashed, with pure lime, 
the furnace-pipe in my cellar, it being 
exposed to the exhalations arising 
from tide- water, causing me to replen- 
ish the sheet-iron pipe each season. 
By whitewashing each year, the last 
one remained good for six years. Gas- 
pipes used under ground have been 
thus coated at my suggestion, and show 
no oxidation as yet. Last year I tried 
an experiment with peaches and pears, 
placed in boxes allowing but little 
ventilation, thoroughly coated with 
pure whitewash. They kept seven- 
teen days without showing signs of 
decay, while those left in the crate all 
decayed in four days." 

A New Whitewash for Walls. — 
Soak one- fourth of a pound of glue 
over night in tej^id water. The next 
day put it into a tin vessel with a 
quart of water, set the vessel in a 
kettle of water over the fire, keep it 
there till it boils, and then stir until 
the glue is dissolved. Next put from 
six to eight pounds of Paris white into 
another vessel, add hot water and stir 
until it has the appearance of milk of 
lime. Addthesizing, stirwell,andapply 
in the ordinary way while still warm. 

" Paris white" is sulphate of baryta^ 
and may be found at any drug or 
paint store. 

Stone-Colored Wash for Outside 
of Wooden Buildings, or Fences. — 
Cheap and very durable, and pre-.terves 
the wood. — Take two pounds of flax- 
seed, and boil it in a common wash- 
boiler for an hour or more, in tour 
pails of water ; after thoroughly boil- 
ing, strain it into an old tight barrel ; 
put in one peck, in bulk, of common 
)and plaster, one peck of nicely sifted 
wood ashes, cue quart of wheat flour, 



FARM RECIPES. 



361 



und one quart of salt. Put in your 
barrel a good stick as large as a hand- 
spike, and stir it till it is as thick as 
cream ; let it stand in the sun for a 
week, and every time you go by the 
barrel, stir it thoroughly : at the end 
of the week it won't settle, but will 
remain incorporated, and is fit for use. 

Substitute for Glass for Hot- 
Houses. — Apply, with a common 
painter's brush, boiled oil, or Cana- 
dian balsam, diluted with oil of tur- 
pentine, to the surface of white mus- 
lin previously stretched out, and fas- 
tened in the position it is intended to 
occupy. This is often used by the 
English in wood.sheds and out-houses, 
where glass would be liable to frequent 
breakings. 

Melted Alum, mixed with burr 
stone reduced to the consistency of 
sand, is the cement used for filling 
holes in burr stones. If the holes are 
large, coarse pieces of burr stone may 
be used at first, finishing with the finer 
material. 

Cement for Fastening Instruments 
in Handles. — A material for fasten- 
ing knives or forks into their handles, 
when they have become loosened by 
use, is a much-needed article. The 
best cement for this purpose consists 
of one pound of colophony (purchasable 
at the druggist's) and eight ounces of 
sulphur, which are to be melted 
together, and either kept in bars or 
reduced to powder. One part of the 
powder is to be mixed with half a part 
of iron filings, fine sand, or brick- 
dust, and the cavity of the handle is 
then to be filled with this mixture. 
The stem of the knife or fork is then 
to be heated and inserted into the 
cavity ; and when cold, it will be 
found fixed in its place with great 
tenacity. 

Cement for Iron and Stone. — 
Glycerine and litharge stirred to a paste 
hardens rapidly, and makes a suitable 
cement for iron upon iron, for two 
stone surfaces, and especially for 
fastening iron to stone. The cement 
is insoluble, and is not attacked by 
strong acids. 



Leaden Tobacco Boxes.— Dr. Mayer 
of Berlin, states that he has traced six 
cases of lead colic and paralysis to the 
use of tobacco held in leaden boxes. 
M. Chevallier has found, also, that 
tobacco wrapped in lead foil — im- 
properly called tin foil — becomes im- 
pregnated in course of time with ace- 
tate of lead. 

Time to Paint.— There are two ob- 
jects in the use of paint — decoration 
and preservation, both of which are 
entirely defeated by painting out of 
doors in the summer months. Wood- 
work painted in October looks better 
at the end of four years than it 
would in two if painted in June. 

The heat of the summer sun extracts 
the oil (the only portion of paint that 
nourishes and preserves the wood from 
decay) before it has time to penetrate 
below the surface. If judiciously 
applied in the autumn, it accomplishes 
the object — preservation — and preserves 
its body and appearance a much longer 
period. 

Flexible Varnish. — First, India- 
rubber in shavings, one ounce; mineral 
naphtha, two pounds ; digest at a gentle 
heat in a closed vessel till dissolved, and 
strain. Second, India-rubber, one ounce; 
drying oil, one quart; dissolved by as 
little heat as possible, employing con- 
stant stirring, then strain. Third, lin- 
seed oil, one gallon ; dried white cop- 
peras and sugar of lead, each three 
ounces; litharge, eight ounces; boil with 
constant agitation till it strings well, 
then cool slowly and decant the clear. 
If too thick, thin it with quick-drying 
linseed oil. These are used for balloons, 
gas-bags, etc. 

Varnish. — A very free flowing 
black varnish is made with one pint of 
Canada balsam, four of bitumen (Ju- 
dea), and four of chloroform. 

Shingle Roofs.— A thick wash com- 
posed of lime, some salt, a little mo- 
lasses, and some fine sand, applied to 
shingle roofs, render them nearly fire- 
proot^ and are more durable than others 
not so covered. 

To Make Boots Water-tight.— It 
can be done in this way : In a pint of 



362 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



best winter-strained lard oil, dissolve a 
piece of paratfine the size of a hickory 
nut, aiding the solution with a gentle 
heat, say 130° or 140° F. The readiest 
way to get pure paraffine is to take a 
piece of paraffine candle. Rub this 
solution on your boots about once a 
month ; they can be blacked in the 
meantime. If the oil should make the 
leather too stiff, decrease the propor- 
tion of paraffine, and vice versa. 

Composition for Leather. — One of 
the very best compounds known to us 
for rendering leather boots and shoes 
almost perfectly water-proof, and at the 
same time keeping them soft and pli- 
able, is composed of fresh beef tallow, 
half an ounce, yellow beeswax, one 
ounce, and one-eighth of an ounce of 
shellac. Melt the tallow first and then 
remove all the membrane from it; add 
the beeswax in thin shavings, and when 
it is melted and combined with the tal- 
low, add the shellac in powder, and stir 
until it is melted. Beeswax is one of 
the best known preservatives of leather. 
This compound should be applied warm 
to the boot or shoe, and the soles should 
receive a similar application to the up- 
pers. In using it a rag or a piece of 
sponge should be employed, and the 
boot or shoe held cautiously before the 
fire or stove until the compound soaks 
into it. Care must be exercised not to 
expose the leather too close to the fire. 
If the boot be blackened and brushed 
until it becomes glossy before the ap- 
plication of this preparation, it will re- 
main black and shining for a long 
])eriod after it is applied. A little vege- 
table tar mixed with the foregoing 
composition makes it more adhesive, 
and improves its quality for walking 
among snow. A liberal application of 
this composition every two weeks dur- 
ing winter will keep boots and shoes 
that are worn daily water-proof and 
soft. 

How to Save Shoe Soles. — It con- 
sists merely in melting together tallow 
:ind common rosin in the proportion 
of two parts of tallow to one of rosin, 
and apply to the soles of the boots 
or slioes as much of it as they will ab- 



sorb. Shoe soles thus treated will wear 
much longer than those not so treated. 

French Polish for Boots and Shoes. 
— Mix together two pints of the best 
vinegar and one pint of soft water ; stir 
into it a quarter of a pound of glue, 
broken up, half a pound of logwood 
chips, a quarter of an ounce of finely 
powdered indigo, a quarter of an ounce 
of the best soft soap, and a quarter of 
an ounce of isinglass. Put the mixture 
over the fire, and let it boil for ten 
minutes or more. Then strain the 
liquid, and bottle and cork it : when 
cold it is fit for use. Apply it with a 
clean sponge. 

To Polish Enameled Leather.— 
Two pints of the best cream, one pint 
of linseed oil ; make them each luke- 
warm, and tlien mix them well to- 
gether. Having previously cleaned 
the shoe, etc., from dirt, rub it over 
with a sponge dipped in the mixture : 
then rub it with a soft dry cloth until 
a brilliant polish is produced. 

Boots and Shoes should be cieaned 
frequently, whether they are worn or 
not, and should never be left in a 
damp place, nor be put too near to tht» 
fire to dry. In cleaning them, be care- 
ful to brtish the dirt from the seams, 
and not to scrape it with a knife, or 
yoii will cut the stitches. Let the 
hard brush do its work thoroughly 
well, and the polish will be all the 
brighter. 

Paste Blacking. —1. Ivory black, 
two pounds ; molasses, one pound ; 
olive oil and oil of vitriol, of each, a 
quarter of a pound. Mix as before, 
adding only sufficient water to form 
into a paste. 2. In larger quantity: 
Ivory black, three hundredweight; 
common molasses, two hundredweight; 
linseed oil and vinegar bottoms, of 
each, three gallons ; oil of vitriol, 
twenty -eight pounds ; water, a sufficient 
quantity. 

Kote. — The ivory black must l)e very finely 
ground for liquid hlackiug, otherwise it soltli'S 
ra|iidly. The oil of vitriol is powerfully corrosive 
when uudilutcd, but uuitiug with the lime of the 
ivory black, it is jjartly neutralized, and docs net 
iujurc the leather, while it niucli improves the 
i|Uulity of the blacking. 



DOMESTIC RECIPES. 



363 



Liquid Blacking. — 1. Ivory black 
and molasses, of each, one pound ; 
sweet oil and oil of vitriol, of each, a 
quarter of a pound. Put the first three 
together until the oil is perfectly mixed 
or " killed;" then add the oil of vitriol, 
diluted with three times its weight of 
water, and after standing three hours 
add one quart of water or sour beer. 
2. In larger quantity it may be made 
as follows : Ivory black, three hundred- 
weight ; molasses, two hundredweight; 
linseed oil, three gallons ; oil of vitriol, 
twenty pounds ; water, eighty gallons. 
Mix as above directed. 

Driving' Nails. — Within a year we 
have seen it stated, as a new truth, 
that if a nail were wetted in the mouth, 
and if, in addition, the narrow edge 
was placed with the grain of the wood, 
it would seldom split the board into 
which it was driven. 

A Cheap Ice-House. — An inex- 
pensive ice-house may be easily made : 
any farmer can construct his own 
without any difficulty. Lay some rails 
or poles on a piece of ground, suf- 
ficiently inclined to cJirry off water, 
fill the crevices with sawdust, and 
cover with old boards or slabs. Get 
from the saw-mill a few loads of slabs ; 
take four about twelve feet long, notch 
the corners as for a log-house, set them 
on the platform, and you have a crib 
about ten and a half feet square by the 
width of the slab deep ; till this crib 
with sawdust and pack it down hard. 
Cut your ice so that it will pack close, 
lay it on the sawdust, put on another 
crib of slabs, and fill up and pack hard 
with sawdust all around, ana so go on 
until you get up six or eight feet ; then 
put a foot and a half of sawdust on top. 
Over this put ashed roof of slabs — 
one end of the slabs nearly to the ice, 
raising tl'ij other three feet. Ice will 
keep iu sucl. a house as well as in a 
juore elaboiace structure. 

Uomo-'-nade Ice. — In some places 
jemote from fresh water, or ponds, it 
lb diliicalt to procure ice ; a cheap and 
convenient way is as follows : Procure 
a number of barrels — old flour barrels 
answer well — ^place them in an exposed 



situation (if you have no rubber hose 
to conduct the water the barrels should 
be placed near the pump or the 
hydrant), put about six inches of water 
in each barrel, this w'ill soon be frozen 
solid, when four or six inches more 
water may be added occasionally until 
the barrel is full. A few days of cold 
weather will give you all the ice you 
need for family use, the only limit 
being the number of barrels. It is not 
necessary that these barrels be water 
tight, for the water freezing in the 
joints will soon efiect this. When the 
barrel is frozen full of ice it may be 
rolled into the ice-house or place where 
you intend to keep it. Eight barrels 
filled in this way will give a family ten 
pounds of ice each day for four months. 

Mem. — The barrels being round, it 
is easy to remove the ice to its storage 
place, and then, if preferred, the hoops of 
the barrels may be broken and the barrels 
taken off; but this is not necessary. We 
prefer to pack it away in the barrel, 
being careful to fill all the spaces between 
the barrels with shavings, sawdust etc., and 
remove a barrel and cut it into pieces as 
we want to use the ice. 

Strength of Ice. — As people are 
a little timid about travelling on the 
ice at times, we give the capacity of 
the ice as furnished by the U. S. Ord- 
nance Department, which is correct. 
Ice two inches thick will bear in- 
fantry ; four inches, cavalry with light 
guns ; six inches, heavy field guns ; 
and eight inches, the heaviest siege 
guns with one thousand pounds weight 
to a square inch. 

CEMENTS. —The term cement in- 
cludes all those substances employed 
for the purpose of causing the adhe- 
sion of two or more bodies, whether 
originally separate, or divided by an 
accidental fracture. A cement that 
answers admirably under one set of 
circumstances may be perfectly useless 
in others. A vast number of cements 
are known and used in the various 
arts, but they may all be referred to a 
few classes ; and our object in this 
paper will be to describe the manufac- 
ture and use of the best of each q\»s&. 



364 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



It is an important rule, that the less 
cement in a joint the stronger it is. 
Domestic manipulators usually reverse 
this, by letting as much cement as pos- 
sible remain in the joint, which is, 
therefore, necessarily a weak one. A 
thick, nearly solid cement, which can- 
not be pressed out of the joint, is al- 
ways inferior to a thinner one, of 
which merely a connecting film re- 
mains between the united surfaces. 

Mouth Glue. — A very useful prepa- 
ration is sold by many stationers under 
this title; it is merely a thin cake of 
soluble glue, which, when moistened 
with the tongue, furnishes a ready 
means of uniting papers, etc. It is 
made by dissolving one pound of fine 
glue or gelatine in water, and, adding 
half a pound of brown sugar, boiling 
the whole until it is sufiiciently thick 
to become solid on cooling ; it is then 
poured into moulds, or on a slab 
slightly greased, and cut into the re- 
quired shape when cool. 

PASTE is usually made by rubbing 
up flour with cold water, and boiling ; 
if a little alum is mixed before boil- 
ing it is much improved, being less 
clammy, working more freely in the 
brush, and thinner, a less quantity is 
required, and it is therefore stronger. 
If required in large quantity, as for 
papering rooms, it may be made by 
mixing one quartern of flour, one quar- 
ter of a pound of alum, and a little 
warm water; when mixed, the requi- 
site quantity of boiling water should 
be poured on while the mixture is 
being stirred. Paste is only adapted 
to cementing paper; when used it 
should be spread on one side of the 
paper, which should then be folded 
with the pasted side inwards, and al- 
lowed to remain a few minutes before 
being opened and used ; this swells 
the paper, and permits its being more 
smoothly and securely attached. Kept 
for a few days,paste becomes mouldy,and 
after a short time putrid ; this inconve- 
nience may be obviated by the use of 

Permanent Paste — Made by add- 
ing to each half pint of flour paste 
without alum, fifteen grains of corro- 



sive sublimate, previously rubbed to 
powder in a mortar the whole to be 
well mixed ; this, if prevented from 
drying, by being kept in a covered 
pot, remains good any length of time, 
and is therefore convenient ; but un- 
fortunately it is extremely poisonous, 
though its excessively nauseous taste 
would prevent its being swallowed ac- 
cidentally ; it possesses the great ad- 
vantage of not being liable to the at- 
tacks of insects. 

To Make Paste that will Keep 
FOR A Year. — Dissolve slowly in 
water two square inches of glue and 
an equal quantity of alum. Mix and 
boil with flour as usual, and when 
nearly cold stir in two teaspoonfuls of 
oil of cloves or lavender, the whole to 
make a pint of paste. Keep in a well • 
covered vessel. 

Liquid Glue. — Several preparations 
were much in vogue a few years since 
under this title. The liquid glue of 
the shops is made by dissolving shellac 
in water, by boiling it along with borax, 
which possesses the peculiar property 
of causing the solution of the resinous 
lac. This preparation is convenient 
from its cheapness and freedom from 
smell ; but it gives way if exposed to 
long-continued damp, which that made 
with naphtha resists. Of the use of 
common glue very little need be said : 
it should always be prepared in a glue- 
pot or double vessel, to prevent its 
being burned, which injures it very 
materially ; the objection to the use 
of this contrivance is, that it renders 
it impossible to heat the glue in the 
inner vessel to the boiling point; this 
inconvenience can be obviated by em- 
ploying in the outer vessel some liquid 
which boils at a higher temperature 
than pure water, such as a saturated 
solution of salt (made by adding one- 
third as much salt as water). This 
boils at 224° Fahr., 12° above the heat 
of boiling water, and enables the glue 
in the inner vessel to be heated to a 
much higher temperature than when 
pure water is employed. If a saturated 
solution of nitre is used, the tempera- 
ture rises still higher. 



DOMESTIC RECIPES. 



365 



Diamond Cement. — Soak isinglass 
in water till it is soft ; then dissolve it 
in the smallest possible quantity of 
proof-spirit, by the aid of a gentle 
heat ; in two ounces of this mixture 
iisaolve tea grains of ammoniacum, 
and while still liquid, add half a dram 
of mastic, dissolved in three drams of 
rectified spirit ; stir well together, and 
put into small bottles /or sale. — Direc- 
tions for Use. — Liquefy the cement by 
plunging the bottle in hot water, and 
use it directly. The cement improves 
the oftener the bottle is thus warmed ; 
it resists the action of water and mois- 
ture perfectly. 

Rice Flour Cement. — An excellent 
cement may be made from rice flour, 
which is at present used for that pur- 
pose in China and Japan. It is only 
necessary to mix the rice flour inti- 
mately with cold water, and gently 
simmer it over a fire, when it readily 
forms a delicate and durable cement, 
not only answering all the purposes of 
common paste, but admirably adapted 
for joining together paper, cards, etc., 
in forming the various beautiful and 
tasteful ornaments which afford much 
employment and amusement to the 
ladies. When made of the consistence 
of plaster-clay, models, busts, bas-re- 
lievos, etc., may be formed of it ; and 
the articles, when dry, are susceptible 
of high polish, and very durable. 

The White of an Egg, well beaten 
with quicklime, and a small quantity 
of very old cheese, forms an excellent 
substitute for cement, when wanted in 
a hurry, either for broken china or old 
ornamental glassware. 

Cement for Broken China, Glass, 
etc. — The following recipe, from ex- 
perience, we know to be a good one ; 
and being nearly colorless, it possesses 
advantages which liquid glue and other 
cements do not: — Dissolve half an 
cunce of gum acacia in a wineglass of 
boiling water ; add plaster of Paris 
sufficient to form a thick paste, and 
apply it with a brush to the parts re- 
quired to be cemented together. Several 
articles upon our toilet table have been 
repaired most effectually by this recipe. 



Lime and Egg Cement is frequently 
made by moistening the edges to be 
united with white of egg, dusting on 
some lime from a piece of muslin, and 
bringing the edges into contact. A 
much better mode is to slack some 
freshly-burned lime with a small quan- 
tity of boiling water ; this occasions it 
to fall into a very fine dry powder, if 
excess of water has not been added. 
The white of egg used should be in- 
timately and thoroughly mixed, by 
beating with an equal bulk of water, 
and the slacked lime added to the 
mixture, so as to form a thin paste, 
which should be used speedily, as it 
soon sets. This is a valuable cement, 
possessed of great strength, and capa- 
ble of withstanding boiling watei. 
Cements made with lime and blood, 
scraped cheese, or curd, may be re- 
garded as inferior varieties of it. 
Cracked vessels of earthenware and 
glass may often be usefully, though 
not ornamentally, repaired by white 
lead spread on strips of calico, and se- 
cured with bands of twine. But, in 
point of strength, all ordinary cements 
yield the palm to Jeflt-ry's Patent Ma- 
rine Glue. It is not affected by water. 
It is made as follows : — Take one 
pound of India-rubber, cut it into 
small pieces, and dissolve it in about 
four gallons of coal-tar naphtha, the 
mixture being well stirred for some 
time, till perfect solution has taken 
place. After ten or twelve days, when 
the liquid has acquired the consistence 
of cream, two parts, by weight, of 
shellac are added to one of the liquid. 
This mixture is put into an iron ves- 
sel having a discharge - pipe at the 
bottom, and heat applied, the whol* 
being kept well stirred. The liquid 
which flows out of the pipe is spread 
upon slabs, and preserved in the form 
of plates. When required for use it ia 
heated in an iron pot to about 248° 
Fahr., and applied hot with a brush. 

The Red Cement, which is em- 
ployed by instrument-makers for ce- 
menting glass to metals, and which is 
very cheap, and exceedingly useful for 
a variety of purposes, is made by m«;lfr^ 



3G6 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



iug five parts of black rosin, one part 
of yellow wax, and then stirring in 
gradually one part of red ochre or 
Venetian red, in fine powder, and pre- 
viously well dried. This cement re- 
quires to be melted before use, and 
it adheres better if the objects to 
which it is applied are warmed. A 
soft cement, of a somewhat similar 
character, may be found useful for 
covering the corks of preserved fruit, 
and other bottles, and it is made by 
melting yellow wax with an equal 
quantity of resin, or of common tur- 
pentine (not oil of turpentine, but the 
resin), using the latter for a very soft 
cement, and stirring in, as before, some 
dried Venetian red. Bearing in mind 
our introductory remarks, it will be 
seen that to unite broken substances 
with a thick cement is disadvan- 
tageous, the object being to bring the 
surfaces as closely together as possible. 
As an illustration of a right and a 
wrong way of mending, we will sup- 
pose a plaster of Paris figure broken. 
The wrong way to mend it is by a thick 
paste of plaster, which makes, not a 
joint, but a botch. The right way to 
mend it is by means of some well-made 
carpenter's glue, which, being absorbed 
in the porous plaster, leaves merely a 
film covering the two surfaces; and if 
well done, the figure is stronger there 
than elsewhere. 

Mastic Cement. — This is em- 
ployed for making a superior coating 
to inside walls, but must not be con- 
founded with the resin mastic. It is 
made by mixing twenty parts of well- 
washed and sifted sharp sand with 
two parts of litharge and one of 
freshly-burned and slacked quicklime, 
in fine dry powder. This is made into 
a putty, by mixing with linseed oil. 
It sets in a few hours, having the ap- 
I)earance of light stone; and we mention 
it, as it may be frequently employed 
with advantage in repairing broken 
Btone-work (as steps), by filling up the 
missing parts. The employment of 
Roman cement, plaster, etc., for ma- 
sonry work, hardly comes within the 
limits of domestic manipulation. 



Cement for Leather and Cloth. -^ 

An adhesive material for uniting the 
parts of boots and shoes, and for the 
seams of articles of clothing, may be 
made thus : — Take one pound of gutta- 
percha, four ounces of India-rubber, 
two ounces of pitch, one ounce of shel- 
lac, two ounces of oil. The ingredi- 
ents are to be melted together, and 
used hot. 

BIRDLIME. — Take any quantity 
of linseed oil, say half a pint ; put it 
into an old pot, or any vessel tliat will 
stand the fire without breaking. The 
vessel must not be more than one- 
third full ; put it on a slow fire, stir it 
occasionally until it thickens as much 
as required ; this will be known by 
cooling the stick in water, and trying 
it with the fingers. It is best to make 
it rather harder than for use. Then 
pour it into cold water. It can be 
brought back to the consistency re- 
quired with a little Archangel tar. 

MUCILAGE. — Take a quarter 
pound of gum arable, put into a bottle 
with half a pint of water, stir it occa- 
sionally ; next day it will be fit for 
use. This is the mucilage sold in bottles. 

Mucilage for Labels. — Macerate 
five parts of good glue in eighteen to 
twenty parts of water for a day, and to 
the liquid add nine parts of rock candy 
and three parts of gum arable. The 
mixture can be brushed upon paper 
while lukewarm ; it keeps well, does 
not stick together, and when moisterved 
adheres firmly to bottles. For the 
labels of soda or seltzer water boitles, 
it is well to prepare a paste of good 
rye flour and glue, to which linseed oil, 
varnish, and turpentine have been 
added in the proportion of half an 
ounce of each to the pound. Labels 
prepared in the latter way do not fall 
off" in damp cellars. 

To Make Paper Stick to White- 
washed Walls.^Make a sizing of 
common glue and water, of the con- 
sistency of linseed oil, and apply with 
a brush to the wall, being careful to 
go over every part; the tou and bot- 
tom should have especial attentiou 
Apply the paper in the usual way. 



DOMESTIC RECIPES. 



367 



To Soften Putty and Remove 
raint. — To destroy paint on old doors, 
etc., and to soften putty in window 
frames, so that the glass may be taken 
out without breaking and cutting, take 
one pound of American pearlash, three 
pounds of quick-stone lime, slack the 
lime in water, add the pearlash, and 
make the whole about the consistence 
of paint. Apply it to both sides of 
the glass, and let it remain for twelve 
hours, when the putty will be softened 
so that the glass may be taken out of 
the frame without being cut, and with 
the greatest facility. To destroy paint, 
lay the above over the whole body 
with an old brush (as it will spoil a 
new one) ; let it remain for twelve or 
fourteen hours, when the paint can be 
easily scraped off. 

To Remove Old Putty.— Dip a 
small brush in nitric or muriatic acid, 
and with it anoint or paint over the 
dry putty that adheres to the broken 
glass and frames of your windows ; 
after an hour's interval, the putty will 
have become so soft as to be easily re- 
movable. 

Remedy for Smoky Chimneys.— 
If a chimney is built near a wall, or 
any other obstruction to the passage of 
the wind when it is blowing from the 
side on which the chimney is erected, 
the compression of the air in the vi- 
cinity of the wall is such that it will 
seek every crevice, stove-pipe and 
chimney through which to escape, 
thus producing a draft the wrong way. 
To prevent this, raise the top of the 
chimney above surrounding objects ; 
this is generally eifectual. 

How to Read a Gas Meter. — The 
veracity of gas companies is often 
called in question by consumers of that 
article, though with how much justice 
is not, of course, for us to decide. 
The employes of the company main- 
tain that they deal honestly by their 
customers, and the latter, knowing 
that they are in the power of the 
company, often pay their bills feeling 
dissatisfaction. The matter of dissat- 
isfaction might be easily remedied. 
The process of reading a meter is 



almost as simple as telling the time of 
day by a clock, and may be acquired 
by any person of common intelligence 
in ten minutes. Below we give a brief 
explanation. 

At the top of the meter is placed a 
small tin case, three or four inches 
long, which opens by means of a little 
door in front, and discloses a plate 
with three small dials, about an inch 
in diameter, which are furnished with 
one pointer apiece, moved by cog- 
wheels and pinions on the inside, 
which, in turn, are made to revolve by 
a large wheel propelled by the passage 
of the gas. The circle on the dial is 
divided into ten spaces, numbered 
around the edges with figures like the 
dial of a clock. The dial on the 
extreme right indicates, by means of 
its pointer, the burning of 100 feet of 
gas; the dial in the middle indicates 
the burning of 1000 feet ; and the dial 
on the left the burning of 10,000 feet. 
For instance, the three pointers all 
stand at cipher. The pointer on the 
right hand dial having moved from 
cipher to figure one, indicates that 100 
feet of gas have been consumed. If it 
move to the two, 200 feet, and so on, 
until the pointer has gone around 
the circle, and again reached the 
cipher, when 1000 feet have been con- 
sumed. 

When this point has been reached, 
the eye will be directed to the next 
dial, when it will be found that the 
pointer has moved to the figure one, 
indicating that 1000 feet have been 
consumed. The pointer on the first 
dial continues on, and still marking 
the amount passing. Suppose that at 
the end of the first month the pointer 
on the first dial stands at eight, that 
on the second between one and two, it 
is easy to understand that 1800 feet 
have been consumed. When the 
pointer on the second dial reaches 
two, that on the first is again at 
cipher, indicating that 2000 feet have 
been consumed. Thus it goes on until 
the pointer on the second dial has 
made the circuit, which indicates that 
10,000 feet have been consumed, when 



368 



Yoc ask! — I'll tell! 



the pointer on the third dial will stand 
at one. This, in turn, with an entire 
revolution, indicates that 100,000 feet 
have been consumed. Taking the 
three dials in connection, the exact 
amount of cubic feet may thus be as- 
certained, commencing anew every 
time 100,000 feet have run through the 
meter and been consumed. 

Now, to ascertain the exact amount 
of gas which will be consumed during 
the coming month, inspect the dials of 
the meter on the first of the month. 
The pointer on the left hand dial per- 
naps stands between the figures 6 and 
7, indicating 60,000 feet. The pointer 
on the middle dial stands between 5 
and 6, indicating 5000 feet, and the 

Eointer on the right-hand dial stands 
etween 7 and 8, indicating 700 feet. 
You thus have a total of 65,700 feet 
of gas previously consumed. Set the 
figures down, and at the end of the 
month again inspect the dial. The 
right-hand dial stands, perhaps, nearly 
as before, and still indicates 60,000 
feet. The middle one has moved on, 
and stands between 7 and 8, indicating 
7000. The right-hand one has made a 
number of revolutions, and stands be- 
tween 1 and 2, indicating 100 feet. We 
then have a total of 67,100 feet. Sub- 
tract from this the number set down 
at the beginning of the month, and 
you have 1400 feet of gas consumed. 
Multiply this by the price per cubic 
foot, and you have your gas bill for the 
month. If housekeepers would take 
the trouble to do this themselves, they 
would satisfy themselres, and be sure 
to guard against mistakes. 

How to Detect Escaping Gas. — 
If your gas bills seem too high, or you 
have the evidence of escaping gas by 
sense of smell, but not positively so, 
take a reading of the meter when no 
burners are in use, and after an hour 
or 80 repeat the reading, and if gas is 
escaping it will be shown. To detect 
the locality of the leak is often a more 
difficult matter. The first thing is to 
Bee that no burners have been left 
turned on by accident, which is often 
the case where the cock has no »top, 



and is caused by the cock being turned 
partially round again so as to open the 
vent. Imperfect stop-cocks are, fo.^ 
this reason, dangerous, and should be 
at once removed. 

The next thing to 4o in order tc 
detect a leak is to try the joints of the 
gas-fittings. The sense of smell will 
frequently be sufficient by bringing 
the face near the suspected joint ; a 
lighted taper or match held near the 
joint is a more certain plan. If gas 
is escaping, it will take fire at the leak, 
or if too little to burn steadily, it will 
momentarily catch and extinguish in 
little puffs. 

Sometimes the gas escapes from the 
joints or imperfect piping between the 
ceiling and floor, or behind the wall? 
or casings. 

If beneath the floor, the sense of 
smell will generally detect the section 
of the floor under which the leak is, 
as it escapes owing to its levity up- 
wards through the crevices of the 
floor, and penetrates the carpet, if 
there be one. If bracket or side burn- 
ers are used, and the escaping gas is 
behind the walls or casings, the crev- 
ices in the casings, or the opening 
where the pipe enters the room, will 
let the escaping gas enter the room 
sufficiently at these points to indicate 
somewhat nearly the location of the 
leak. 

In such cases, the proper way i» 
never to apply a light to the crevices 
or casings, but to turn off the gas at 
the meter and send for a gasfitter, 
otherwise an explosion may occur, 
involving serious consequences. In 
ordinary leaks of gas-fixtures and 
pipes, whether at the joints or at the 
attachment of the burner, the fitting 
or burner should be unscrewed, and 
white lead or common bar soap rubbed 
in the threads, and then screwed home 
again. This can often be done with- 
out any aid from a gasfitter. 

How to Detect Counterfeit Notes. 
— Examine the vignette and pictures 
on the note ; see if the faces look natu- 
ral. The eyes should be so perfect that 
the white is clear and the pupil dia- 



GENERAL RECIPES. 



369 



tinct. The clothing should fit well, 
and show the folds clearly, and should 
have an easy, graceful appearance. The 
sky should be clear, or soft and even. 
This would indicate a genuine note. 
But if, instead of the above, the fea- 
tures are indistinct, the eyes dull, the 
clothing stiff and ill-fitting, a coun- 
terfeit may be presumed. 

All circular ornaments, or rulings 
around or on which figures are printed, 
should be uniform and regular ; the 
shading or parallel ruling and the fine 
lines and curves in genuine notes are 
perfect, but in counterfeit notes there 
"s an absence of uniformity and finish. 
The letters and figures should be 
uniform and regular, the lines and 
curves of which they are composed 
without breaks, and parallel with each 
other. All small figures and letters on 
a genuine note are always well exe- 
cuted, but in counterfeits not so. 

The signatures should be well ex- 
amined — the genuine has a free, smooth 
stroke. Counterfeits usually have a 
cramped appearance ; and even when 
they are lithographed, they have to be 
traced over with ink ; this gives a 
ragged edge to the lines and an irregu- 
lar stroke. 

Sometimes a note is altered by rais- 
ing the amount ; this is done by cutting 
out the genuine figures, and inserting 
or pasting in figures of a larger de- 
nomination. In such cases, the dif- 
ference in the paper and the color of 
the ink may be seen ; but the best and 
surest way to detect these altered notes 
is to hold the note up to the light ; the 
parts pasted in can be seen. 

As counterfeit money is generally 
taken in a hurry, and during a press 
of business, or through carelessness, 
all hurry and confusion when taking 
money should be avoided, for with or- 
dinary care counterfeits may be de- 
tected. 

Simple Method of Ascertaining 
Peath. — Dr. Carrifere, of St. Jean du 
G-ard, in reply to the offer of the Mar- 
quin d'Orches, of a premium of twenty 
thousand francs for a practical method 
of determining death, furnished the 
24 



following, which he says he has prac- 
ticed for forty years : Place the hand, 
with the fingers closely pressed one 
against the other, close to a lighted 
lamp or candle; if alive, the tissues 
will be observed to be of a transparent, 
or a rosy hue, and the capillary circu- 
lation of life in full play ; if, on the 
contrary, the hand of a dead person 
be placed in the same relation to light, 
none of the phenomena are observed 
— we see but a hand as of marble, 
without circulation, without life. 

To Light a Dark Room, in which 
the darkness is caused by its being 
situated on a narrow street or lane. 
If the glass of a window in such a 
room is placed several inches within 
the outer face of the wall, as is the 
general custom in building houses, it 
will admit very little light — that which 
it gets being only the reflection from 
the walls of the opposite houses. If, 
however, for the window be substituted 
another in which all the panes of glass 
are roughly ground on the outside, and 
flush with the outer wall, the light 
from the whole of the visible sky and 
from the remotest parts of the opposite 
wall will be introduced into the apart- 
ment, reflected from the innumerable 
faces or facets which the rough grind- 
ing of the glass has jjroduced. The 
whole window will appear as if the sky 
were beyond it, and from every point 
of this luminous surface light will ra • 
diate into all parts of the room. 

To Solder Lead Pipe. — It some- 
times happens that lead pipes are acci- 
dentally cut in excavations and other 
places, and the water cannot be con- 
veniently shut off to repair it. First 
stop the leak by a bandage around the 
pipe, or cut it in two, and drive a plug 
into each end of the pipe, then place a 
few quarts of powdered ice and salt 
around each end of the pipe. In a 
few minutes the water in the pipes 
will be frozen. Then remove the 
plugs, and solder the joint as quickly 
as you can ; the ice will soon thaw out 
of the pipe, and the water flow through 
it as usual. 

Pipe Joints to Water - Closets, Wash- 



370 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



howls, Sinh, etc. — The old plan of 
cementing the lead pipes to closet 
pans, etc., is very objectionable. Take 
about four inches of rubber tubing, in- 
sert the lead pipe in one end, and 
draw the other end over the arm or 
neck of the pan, and bind each end 
with a few turns of copper wire. In 
this way a cheap, durable, and water- 
tight joint is obtained. 

Marking Cutlery. — Take a quarter 
ounce each of alum, blue stone (sul- 
phate of copper), and common salt, 
pound all together and dissolve in a 
quarter pint of vinegar. Cover that 
portion of the article to be marked 
with wax, then draw the letters with a 
large needle through the wax down to 
the surface of the metal ; now into 
the lines pour some of the above mix- 
ture, and allow it to remain half an 
hour, then clean all off, and the metal 
will be found permanently etched as 
marked w'ith the needle. 

To Soften Hard Water.— Professor 
Clarke of Scotland has obtained a 
patent for softening water obtained 
from chalk or lime formations, by 
means of quicklime itself, which pre- 
cipitates the soluble carbonate by 
converting it into an insoluble — into 
whiting, in fact — and so deprives the 
water of its hardness. 

To Cut Iron or Brass.— Take the 
stoel spring from an old corset and 
hack it on the edge with an old chisel 
or knife, making the teeth as near 
together as possible, and uniform in 
size. This is easily done by placing 
the chisel on the edge of the spring 
and striking it lightly with a ham- 
mer ; then place the chisel as near the 
cut so maae as the ridge formed by 
the chisel will allow, again strike with 
the hammer, and continue the opera- 
tion until you have three or four 
inches in length. With the saw so 
made and a little kerosene (oil) a bar 
of iron can soon be cut in two. 

How to Bore Holes in Glass.— 
Any hard steel tool will cut glass with 
great facility when wet freely with 
camphor, dissolved in turpentine. A 
drill bore may be used, or even the 



hand alone. A hole bored may l»e 
easily enlarged by a round file. The 
ragged edges of glass vessels may also 
be smoothed thus with a flat file. Flat 
window glass may be easily sawed 
with a watch-spring saw, by aid of 
this solution. In short, the most brit- 
tle glass can be wrought almost as 
easily as brass by the use of cutting 
tools kept constantly moist with the ' 
camphorized oil of turpentine. 

To Cut Glass to any shape, with- 
out a diamond, hold it quite level 
under water, and with a pair of strong 
scissors clip it away by small bits from 
the edges. 

Ventilating Waterproof Cloth. — 
India-rubber and oil-cloth capes and 
coats, although perfectly waterproof, 
are unfit for wearing during warm 
rainy weather, because they retain the 
perspiration and prevent the necessary 
ventilation required for the body. The 
best light capes for soldiers and trav- 
ellers when marching during wet 
weather, are made of what is called 
"Tweed cloth," prepared as follows: 
Take two pounds and four ounces of 
alum, and dissolve it in ten gallons of 
water; in like manner dissolve the 
same quantity of sugar of lead in a 
similar quantity of water, and mix 
the two together. The cloth is im- 
mersed for one hour in the solution, 
and stirred occasionally, when it is 
taken out, dried in the shade, washed 
in clean water, and dried again. This 
preparation enables the cloth to repel 
water like the feathers of a ducK's 
back, and yet allows the perspiration 
to pass somewhat freely through it, 
which is not the case with gutta-percha 
or India-rubber cloth. 

The sulphate of lead is formed in 
this manner, and enters into the pores 
of the cloth. It is an insoluble salt ; 
hence, the reason why it makes the 
cloth waterproof, while, at the same 
time, there is sufficient room in the 
interstices to allow the perspiration 
and heat from the body to escape. 

Tweed cloth is light, and not expen- 
sive ; it is also soft and pliable, and 
capable of being rolled up into sm&ll 



GENERAL RECIPES. 



371 



oulk without permanent wrinkles 
oeing formed in it. We have fre- 
quently prepared cloth in this man- 
ner, and have found it to answer an 
excellent purpose in rainy weather ; 
while at the same time, in color and 
appearance, it does not differ from un- 
prepared cloth. 

A Grindstone should not be ex- 
posed to the weather, as it not only in- 
jures the woodwork, but the sun's rays 
harden the stone so much as, in time, 
to render it useless. Neither should 
it stand in the water in which it runs, 
as the part remaining in water softens 
80 much that it wears unequally, and 
this is a very common cause of grind- 
stones becoming " out of true." The 
grindstone is a self-sharpening tool, 
and after having been turned for some 
time in one direction (if a hard stone) 
the motion should be reversed. Sand 
of the right grit applied occasionally 
to a hard stone will render it quite 
effectual. 

Permanent Ink for Writing in 
Relief on Zinc. — Bichloride of pla- 
tinum, dry, one part ; gum arable, one 
part; distilled water, ten parts. The 
letters traced upon zinc with this solu- 
tion turn black immediately. The 
black characters resist the action of 
weak acids, of rain, or of the elements 
in general, and the liquid is thus 
adapted for marking signs, labels, or 
tags which are liable to exposure. To 
bring out the letters in relief, immerse 
the zinc tag in a weak acid for a few 
moments. The writing is not attacked, 
while the metal is dissolved away. 

Cure for Cold in the Head. — In- 
hale hartshorn through the nostrils 
six or eight times a minute until re- 
lief is obtained. Then after an hour 
or so repeat again. This remedy is 
used in France with good results. 

Domestic Hints. — Why is the flesh 
of sheep that are fed near the sea more 
nutritious than that of others f — Because 
the saline particles (sea salt) which 
they find with their green food gives 
purity to their blood and flesh. 

Why does the marbled appearance of 
/at in meat indicate that it is young and 



tender ? — Because in young animals 
fat is dispersed through the muscles, 
but in old animals it is laid in masses 
on the outside of the flesh. 

Why is some flesh white and other 
flesh red f — White flesh contains a 
larger proportion of albumen (similar 
to the white of egg) than that which 
is red. The amount of blood retained 
in the flesh also influences its color. 

Why are ravj oysters more wholesome 
than those that are cooked f — When 
cooked they are partly deprived of 
salt water, which promotes their diges- 
tion ; their albumen becomes hard 
(like hard-boiled eggs). 

Why have some oysters a green tinge f 
— This has been erroneously attributed 
to the effects of copper ; but it arises 
from the oyster feeding upon small 
green sea- weeds, which grow where 
such oysters are found. 

Why is cabbage rendered more whole- 
some by being boiled in two waters f — 
Because cabbages contain an oil, which 
is apt to produce bad effects, and 
prevents some persons from eating 
" green" vegetables. When boiled in 
two waters, the first boiling carries off 
the greater part of this oil. 

Why should horseradish be scraped 
for the table only just before it is re- 
quired ? — Because the peculiar oil of 
horseradish is very volatile ; it quickly 
evaporates, and leaves the vegetable 
substance dry and insipid. 

Why is mint eaten with pea soup ? — 
The properties of mint are stomachic 
and antispasmodic. It is therefore 
useful to prevent the flatulencies that 
might arise, especially from soups made 
of green or dried peas. 

Why is apple sauce eaten with pork 
and goose f — Because it is slightly 
laxative, and therefore tends to coun- 
teract the effects of rich and stimu- 
lating meats. The acid of the apples 
also neutralizes the oily nature of the 
fat, and prevents biliousness. 

Why does milk turn sour during 
thunder - storms ^ — Because, in an 
electric condition of the atmosphere, 
ozone is generated. Ozone is oxygen 
in a state of great intensity ; and oxy- 



372 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



gen is a general acidifier of many 
organic substances. Boiling milk pre- 
vents its becoming sour, because it 
expels the oxygen. 

Why does Bie churning of cream or 
milk produce butter f — Because the 
action of stirring, together with a 
moderate degree of warmth, causes the 
cells in which the butter is confined to 
burst ; the disengaged fat collects in 
flakes, and ultimately coheres in large 
masses. 

What is the blue mould which appears 
tometimes upon cheese ? — It is a species 
of fungus, or minute vegetable, which 
may be distinctly seen when examined 
by a magnifying glass. 

Why are some of the limbs of birds 
more tender than others? — The tender- 
ness or toughness of flesh is deter- 
mined by the amount of exercise the 
muscles have undergone. Hence the 
wing of a bird that chiefly walks, and 
the leg of a bird that chiefly flies, are 
the most tender. 

Why does tea frequently cure head- 
ache f — Because, by its stimulant ac- 
tion on the general circulation, in 
which the brain participates, the 
nervous congestions are overcome. 

Why are clothes of smooth and shining 
surfaces best adapted for hot weather ? — 
Because they reflect or turn back 
the rays of the sun, which are thus 
prevented from penetrating them. 

Why is loose clothing warmer than 
tight articles of dress ? — Because the 
loose dress encloses a stratum of warm 
air, which the tight dress shuts out ; 
for the same reason, woollen articles, 
though not warmer in themselves, 
appear so, by keeping warm air near 
to the body. 

Why should the water poured upon tea 
be at the boiling point f — Because it 
requires the temperature of boiling 
water to extract the peculiar oil of 
tea. 

Why does the first infvMon of tea 
possess more aroma than the second ? — 
Because the first infusion, if the water 
used is at the boiling temperature, 
takes up the essential oil of the tea, 
while the second water receives only 



the bitter extract supplied by the 
tannic acid of tea. 

Why does a head-dress of sky-blut 
become a fair person ? — Because light 
blue is the complementary color of 
pale orange, which is the foundation 
of the blonde complexion and hair. 

Why are yellow, orange, or red colors 
suitable to a person of dark hair and 
complexion f — Because those colors, bv 
contrast with the dark skin and hair, 
show to the greater advantage them- 
selves, while they enrich the hue of 
black. 

Why is a delicate green favorable to 
pale blonde complexions ? — Because it 
imparts a rosiness to such complexion* 
— red, its complementary color, being 
reflected upon green. 

Why is light green unfavorable to 
ruddy complexions f — Because it in- 
creases the redness, and has the effect 
of producing an overheated appeftr- 
ance. 

Why is violet an unfavorable color for 
every kind of complexion? — Because 
reflecting yellow, they augment that 
tint when it is present in the skin or 
hair, change blue into green, and give 
to an olive complexion a jaundiced 
look. 

Why is blue suitable to brunettes? — 
Because it reflects orange, and adds to 
the darkness of the complexion. 

Why do blue veils preserve the com- 
plexion ? — Because they diminish the 
effect of the scorching rays of light, 
just as the blue glass over photo- 
graphic studios diminishes the effect 
of certain rays that would injure the 
delicate processes of photography. 

A New Cure for Fever and Ague. 
— Just as the chill is coming on, start 
at the top of a long flight of stairs and 
crawl down on your hands and feet, 
head foremost. You never did harder 
work in your life, and when you arrive 
at the bottom, instead of shaking, you 
will find yourself puffing, red in the 
face, and perspiring freely, from the 
strongest exertions made in the effort 
to support yourself. It will effect a cure, 
beyond a doubt; but whether from this 
cause or from that, we will never teJi 



STAINIXG. 



373 



Horn must be treated in the same 
manner as bone and ivory for the vari- 
ous colors given under that heading. 

Imitation of Tortoise-shell. — 
First steam and then press the horn 
into proper shapes, and afterward lay 
the following mixture on with a small 
brush, in imitation of the mottle of 
tortoise-shell : — Take equal parts of 
quicklime and litharge, and mix with 
strong soap-lees ; let this remain until 
it is thoroughly dry, brush off", and 
repeat two or three times, if necessary. 
Such parts as are required to be of a 
reddish-brown should be covered with 
a mixture of whiting and the stain. 

Iron. — Black, for ships' guns, shoU, 
etc. — To one gallon of vinegar add a 
quarter of a pound of iron rust, let it 
stand for a week ; then add a pound of 
dry lampblack, and three-quarters of a 
pound of copperas : stir it up for a 
couple of days. Lay five or six coats 
on the gun, etc., with a sponge, allow- 
ing it to dry well between each. Polish 
with linseed oil and soft woollen rag, 
and it will look like ebony. 

Paper and Parchment. Blue.—l. 
Stain it green with the verdigris stain, 
and brush over with a solution of pearl- 
ash — two ounces to the pint — till it 
becomes blue. 2. Use the blue stain 
for wood. 

Paper and Parchment. Green 
and Red. — The same as for wood. 

Paper and Parchment. Orange. 

— Brush over with a tincture of tur- 
meric, formed by infusing an ounce of 
the root in a pint of spirit of wine ; let 
this dry, and give another coat of pearl- 
ash solution, made by dissolving two 
ounces of the salt in a quart of water. 

Paper and Parchment. Purple. 

— 1. Brush over with the expressed 
juice of ripe privet berries. 2. The 
same as for wood. 

Paper and Parchment. Yellow. 

— 1. Brush over with tincture of tur- 
meric. 2. Add anatto or dragon's-blood 
to the tincture of turmeric, and brush 
over as usual. 

WOOD. — ^^ac^. — 1. Drop a little 
sulphuric acid into a small quantity of 
water, brush over the wood and hold 



to the fire; it will be a fine black, and 
receive a good polish. 2. Take half a 
gallon of vinegar, an ounce of bruised 
nut galls, of logwood chips and cop- 
peras each half a pound — boil well ; 
add half an ounce of the tincture of 
sesquichloride of iron, formerly called 
the muriiited tincture, and brush on 
hot. 3. Use the stain given for ships' 
guns. 4. Take half a gallon of vin- 
egar, half a pound of dry lampblack, 
and three pounds of iron rust, sifted. 
Mix, and let stand for a week. Lay 
three coats of this on hot, and then 
rub with linseed oil, and you will have 
a fine deep black. 5. Add to the 
above stain an ounce of nut galls, 
half a pound of logwood chips, and a 
quarter of a pound of copperas ; lay 
on three coats, oil well, and you will 
have a black stain that will stand 
any kind of weather, and one that is 
well suited for ships' combings, etc. 
6. Take a pound ci logwood chips, a 
quarter of a pound of Brazil wood, 
and boil for an hour and a half in a 
gallon of water. Brush the wood sev- 
eral times with this decoction while 
hot. Make a decoction of nut galls by 
simmering gently, for three or four 
days, a quarter of a pound of the galls 
in two quarts of water ; give the wood 
three coats of this, and, while wet, lay 
on a solution of sulphate of iron (two 
ounces to a quart), and when dry, oil 
or varnish. 7. Give three coats with 
a solution of copper filings in aqua- 
fortis, and repeatedly brush over with 
the logwood decoction, until the green- 
ness of the copper is destroyed. 8. 
Boil half a pound of logwood chips 
in two quarts of water, add an ounce 
of pearlash, and apply hot with a 
brush. Then take two quarts of the 
logwood decoction, and half an ounce 
of verdigris, and the same of cop- 
peras ; strain, and throw in half a 
pound of iron rust. Brush the work 
well with this, and oil. 

Wood. Blue. — 1. Dissolve cop- 
per filings in aquafortis, brush the 
wood with it, and then go over the 
work with a hot solution of pearlash 
(two ounces to a pint of water), till it 



374 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



assumes a perfectly blue color. 2. Boil 
a pound of indigo, two pounds of 
woad, and three ounces of alum, in a 
gallon of water ; brush well over until 
thoroughly stained. 

Imitation of Botany Bay Wood. 
— Boil half a pound of French berries 
(the unripe berries of the rhamnus in- 
fectorlus) in two quarts of water till 
of a deep yellow, and while boiling 
hot give two or three coats to the work. 
If a deeper color is desired, give a coat 
of logwood decoction over the yellow. 
When nearly dry, form the grain with 
black stain, used hot; and when dry, 
dust and varnish. 

Wood. Green. — Dissolve verdi- 
gris in vinegar, and brush over with 
the hot solution until of a proper color 

Wood. Mahogamj Color. — Dark. 

1. Boil half a pound of madder and 
two ounces of logwood chips in a gallon 
of water, and brush well over while hot" 
when dry, go over the whole with pearl- 
ash solution, two drams to the quart. 

2. Put two ounces of dragon's-blood, 
bruised, into a quart of oil of turpen- 
tine ; let the bottle stand in a warm 
place, shake frequently, and, when dis- 
solved, steep the work in the mixture. 

Wood. Light Red Broivn. — 1. Boil 
Lalf a pound of madder and a quarter 
of a pound of fustic in a gallon of 
water ; brush over the work when boil- 
ing hot, until properly stained. 2. The 
surface of the work being quite smooth, 
brush over with a weak solution of 
aquafortis, half an ounce to the pint, 
and then finish with the following: — 
Put four ounces and a half of dragon's- 
blood and an ounce of soda, both well 
bruised, to tliree pints of spirits of 
wine ; let it stand in a warm place, 
shake frequently, strain, and lay on with 
a soft brush, repeating until of a proper 
color ; polish with linseed oil or varnish. 

Wood. Purple. — Brush the work 
several times with the logwood decoc- 
tion used for No. 6 black, and when dry 
give a coat of pcarlash solution — one 
Oram to a quart — taking care to lay 
it on evenly. 

Wood. Red. — ] Boil a pound of 



Brazil wood and an ounce of pearlash 
in a gallon of water, and while hot 
brush over the work until of a proper 
color. Dissolve two ounces of alum 
in a quart of water, and brush the 
solution over the work before it dries. 
2. Take a gallon of the above stain, 
add two more ounces of pearlash ; use 
hot, and brush often with the alum so- 
lution. 3. Use a cold infusion of 
archil, and brush over with the pearl- 
ash solution. 

Imitation of Rosewood. — 1. Boil 
half a pound of logwood in three 
pints of water till it is of a very dark 
red, add half an ounce of salt of tar- 
tar; stain the work with the liquor 
while boiling hot, giving three coats ; 
then, with a painter's graining brush, 
form streaks with black-stain ; let dry, 
and varnish. 2. Brush over with the 
logwood decoction black, three or four 
times ; put half a pound of iron fil- 
ings into two quarts of vinegar : then 
with a graining brush, or cane bruised 
at the end, apply the iron filing solu- 
tion in the form required, and polish 
with beeswax and turpentine when 
dry, or varnish. 

Wood. Yellow. — 1. Brush over 
with the tincture of turmeric. 2. Warm 
the work and brush over with weak 
aquafortis, then hold to the fire. Var- 
nish or oil as usual. 

To Ascertain the Age of Cows.— 
A safe rule is affordea by the teeth. 
At birth, the two centre teeth (front) 
protrude through the gum ; at the end 
of the second week the second pair 
appear ; at the end of the third week 
the third pair, and at the end of the 
fourth week, the fourth and last pair. 
The wearing of these teeth now con- 
stitutes the only guide for the next 
three months, at the expiration of 
which time all these (which are called 
the " milk teeth ") begin to diminish 
in size and shrink away from each 
other, which process continues until 
the animal is two years old, when the 
new teeth begin to push out slender 
remnants of the old and shrunken 
ones. At the end of second year, the 
first two permanent teeth appear in 



MARKING LINEN. 



375 



front ; at three years, the second pair 
are well up ; at four, the third pair ; 
and at five years, the fourth and last 
pair have appeared, and the central 
pair are beginning to be worn down ; 
at six years, the last pair are full- 
size ; at seven years, the dark line with 
bony boundary appears in all the 
teeth, and a broad circular mark ap- 
pears within the central pair; at eight 
years, this mark appears in all the 
teeth ; at nine years, a process of 
shrinkage and absorption, similar to 
that which reduced the front teeth, 
begins to take place ic the central 
pair ; at ten, it begins with the second 
pair; at eleven, with the third pair; 
at twelve, with the fourth pair. The 
age of the animal, after this period is 
attained, is determined by the degree 
of shrinkage and wearing away of all 
the teeth in the order of their appear- 
ance, until the fifteenth vear, when 
Bcarcely any teeth remain. 

How to Prepare Sea -Water 
There cannot be a question that by far 
the simplest plan would consist in the 
evaporation of the sea-water itself in 
large quantities, preserving the result- 
ing salt in closely-stopped vessels, to 
prevent the absorption of moisture, 
and vending it in this form to the con- 
sumer ; the proportion of this dry, 
saline matter being fifty-six ounces to 
ten gallons of water less three pints. 
This plan was suggested by Dr. E. 



Schweitzer, for the extemporaneous 
formation of sea-water for medicinal 
baths. The proportion ordered to be 
used is six ounces to the gallon of 
water, and stirred well until dis- 
solved. 

Indelible Ink to Mark Linen 
WITH A Pen. — Twenty two parts car- 
bonate of soda are dissolved in eighty- 
five of distilled water, and twenty parts 
of pulverized gum arable are difi'used 
through the menstruum. Eleven parts 
»f nitrate of silver are then liquefied in 
twenty parts of ammonia. The mixed 
fluids are next warmed in a flask, by 
which they become grayish-black, and 
partly coagulated ; subsequently brown 
and clear ; then, when ebullition com- 
mences, very dark, and of such a con- 
sistence that it will flow readily from 
the pen. 

Indelible Ink for Marking 
Linen with Stamps or Stencil 
Plates. — Five parts nitrate of silver, 
twelve parts distilled water, five parts 
powdered gum arable, seven parts car- 
bonate of soda, and ten parts ammonia. 
Mix the carbonate of soda and the gum 
arable in the distilled water, then in 
a separate vessel, dissolve the nitrate 
of silver in the ammonia, then mix the 
two liquids and heat them in a flask, 
until it acquires a very dark tint. 
Both of these inks become blacker by 
washing. 



EVERY ONE HIS OWN LAWYER. 

Requisites of a Contract — Notes, Drafts and Checks — Landlord and 
Tenant — How to Draw a Will — Partnership Agreements. 



" I wioli every muu kuew enough law to keep out 
of" it." — Lord Bacim. 

An Agreement is a contract be- 
tween persons to do or refrain from 
doing certain things. 

A Contract, to be binding, must be 
mutually understood. If made under 
compulsion, or procured by fraiid, It 
may be voided. 

A Contract may be orally, or iu 
writing. If formally agreed to, either 
orally or in writing, it is special. If 
inferred from the acts of the parties, it 
is an implied contract. 

A Bond is an instrument in writing 
under seal. The party giving the bond 
acknowledges his indebtedness to a 
certain amount, with a provision that 
if the party who gives the bond does 
some particular act (for which the 
bond was given as security) then the 
obligation is void, otherwise it shall 
remain in full force. 

Idiots, Lunatics, common drunk- 
ards, minors, and those incapacitated 
by age or infirmity, are not competent 
to make contracts. 

The Subjects of contracts must be 
legal acts or transactions ; but illegality 
will not be presumed, it must be 
shown. 

Contracts to do illegal acts are 
void. The law will not compel any 
person to break it, or enforce immo- 
rality. 

There must be a valuable consider- 
ation in contract to make it valid — it 
may be relationship or affection. The 
consideration may not be adequate, but 
it must have some real value, and must 
376 



be stated. 

A Written contract must contain 
the whole of the agreement ; oral testi- 
mony will not be admitted to vary it. 

Good faith is essential to a valid 
contract ; fraud will make it void. 

Parties to a contract are supposed 
to know the law ; their ignorance iu 
relation to a question of law will not 
invalidate a contract ; but ignorance of 
th^/act excuses an illiterate man who 
signs a deed which is read to him 
falsely, and will invalidate it. 

Legal Principles. — Agreements 
are above the law. 

A person finding property, on which 
a definite reward has been offered, has 
a lien upon the property found for 
payment of the reward. 

The Law compels no one to do 
impossibilities. 

Possession is a strong point in law. 

If a person in making a sale shows 
a specimen of the goods, it does not 
become a sale by sample, unless so 
agreed. 

Every Act between parties is to be 
taken most strongly against the maker. 

Contracts made on Sunday are void. 

It is fraud to conceal fraud. 

iGNORANCEof the law excusesno man. 

He who is First in point of time 
6as the best title. 

An Assignment is a transfer in 
writing of tne title or interests of one 
party to another, and is only valid 
when made in good faith. 

An assignment made with intent to 
hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, is 
void. If made for the benefit of cred. 
itors, it must be an absolute surrender 



LEGAL AND BUSINESS INFORMATION. 



377 



of all tlie debtor's effects. If any 
effects are secretly held back, it is 
fraud aud punishable. 

An assignment, like any other con- 
veyance of land and other property, 
must be acknowledged and recorded. 

No particular form is required. Any 
language showing an intention to 
transfer an interest is sufficient. 

Know all men by these presents, That 
I, A. B., of Boston, in consideration 
of one hundred dollars, to me in hand, 
paid by C. D., have sold and assigned 
to C. D. and his assigns, all my 
right, title, and interest in the within 
written instrument, and to the pro- 
ceeds thereof; and I do hereby au- 
thorize him, in my name or otherwise, 
but to his own use and at his own 
cost, to enforce the same according to 
its intents. 

Witness my hand and seal, this 
seventh day of August, 187 

A. B. [seal.] 
Executed and delivered | 

in the presence of ) 

Arbitrations and Awards. — An 
agreement by parties to refer mat- 
ters in dispute between them to other 
parties for a decision, is called a sub- 
mission. 

The persons to whom the point in 
dispute are referred, are called arbi- 
trators. An award is the decision 
rendered by the arbitrators. 

The submission may be withdrawn 
by either party from the arbitrators, 
any time before the award is made, 
the party so withdrawing paying the 
whole costs. But if the award is made 
in writing, it can be enforced. 

While an award must not embrace 
any extraneous matter, it must em- 
brace everything submitted ; must not 
be uncertain in its character, but spe- 
cific in its terms, and clear and dis- 
tinct in language. 

In ordinary cases of arbitration, it 
is usual for each party to name a per- 
son as his arbitrator, and for these 
arbitrators so appointed, before consid- 
ering the matter submitted to them, to 
appoint a referee; this referee must 
be satisfactory to both arbitrators, and 



he must consent to act in the matter; 
If the two arbitrators come to a deci- 
sion, the referee is not called upon to 
act ; but if they cannot come to a de- 
cision, the points in dispute between 
them are submitted to the referee, 
whose decision is final. 

AFFIDAVITS. — An affidavit is a 
statement in writing, subscribed to by 
the party making it, and sworn to 
before a notary public, or other quali- 
fied officer. 

RECEIPTS. — A receipt is a writ- 
ten acknowledgment of payment, but 
it is not absolute iu its character. If 
error or fraud can be proven, the re- 
ceipt will not stand. 

A receipt given for money wherein 
the person signing it is to use the 
money for a certain purpose, is an 
agreement, and will bind tne giver of 
the receipt to use the money as de- 
scribed in such receipt. 

A receipt given in full of all de- 
mands, is only good for its face. If a 
larger amount is legally owing, it may 
be collected on proof But it may be 
rendered good for the full amount by 
referring to it as a compromise, and 
stating that it is given as a settlement 
for the greater amount. Where it is 
intended to be a legal release of all de- 
mands, it is better to take a receipt in 
the form of a release, stating a consid- 
eration. 

AcA Philadelphia, March 10th, 187 

Received of A. B., fifty dollars on 
account. C. D. 

AjQQ New York, February 8th, 187 

Received of A. B. one hundred dol- 
lars, in full of all demands for labor to 
date. C. D. 

I, A. B., of Chicago, in consideration 
of one hundred dollars to me paid by 
C. D., the receipt of which is hereby 
acknowledged, do hereby release the 
said C. D. from all demands of any 
kind or nature which I may have 
against him. As witness my hand and 
seal, this tenth day of June, 187 . 

A. 6. [seal.] 



378 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



A Bill of Exchange is an instru- 
ment in writing drawn by one person 
upon another, requesting him to pay a 
sum of money to a third person, or to 
himself, or to his order, absolutely and 
at all events. 

When no time for payment is stated, 
they are payable on presentation. 

When no place is named for pay- 
ment, they should be presented at the 
place of business, or at the residence, 
of the acceptor. 

1h'200 Philadelphia, May 2d, 187 

Thirty days after date pay to the 
order of John Jones, two hundred dol- 
lars, for account of merchandise, Feb- 
ruary 2d, 187 

Value received, and charge the same 
to account of John Jones. 

To Henry Harris, ) 

Albany, N. Y. J 

A,Qp Boston, March 4th, 187 

At sight, pay to the order of George 
Davis, one hundred and six dollars, for 
balance of account to date. 

Value received, and charge the same 
to account of 

Charles Paschal. 
To Henry Ashmead, ) 
New York. j 

A Promissory Note is much the 
same as a bill of exchange, being a 
■written promise by one person to pay 
to another person a certain sum of 
money, absolutely and at all events. 
If made payable to order, it is nego- 
tiable. 
,^,^^/^ February 24th, 187 

Four months after date, I promise to 
pay to the order of A. B., two hundred 
dollars, value received. C. D. 

$300. July 1st, 187 

Ten days after date, I promise to pay 
to A. B., three hundred dollars, value re- 
ceived. C. D. 

A Judgment Note is a note with 
power of attorney attached, authorizing 
the holder to enter up judgment if it 
is not paid when due. 



$700. Boston, June 12tb, IS7 

Four months after date, I promise 
to pay to Charles Coles, or order, seven 
hundred dollars, for value received, 
with interest. 

And, in default of payment, I hereby 
appoint A. B., or any attorney-at-law, 
to appear in any court of record, at any 
time, to waive the service of process, 
and confess a judgment in favor of said 
Charles Coles, or his assigns. 

Witness my hand and seal, this 
twelfth day of June, 187 

Philip Jones, [seal.] 
Attest, George Austen. 

A Letter of Credit is a letter writ- 
ten by one person to another, request- 
ing him to advance money, or sell 
goods to the bearer or person named, 
and undertaking that the debt which 
may be thus contracted shall be paid. 

Philadelphia, August 3d, 187 
Messrs. J. B. & Co., Fulton St., New York. 

Gentlemen: Mr. Edwin James is 
coming to New York to buy goods for 
his business. Will you please deliver 
to him goods to any amount not over 
two thousand dollars, and I will hold 
myself accountable to you for the 
amount, if Mr. James does not pay 
you. 

Please inform me of the amount 
you give him credit for, and, if he de- 
fault in payment, advise me imme- 
diately. 

I am, gentlemen, your obedient ser 
vant, Franklin J. Williams. 

A Promise to pay something, not 
money, is not a promissory note, but 
an order. 

When given for a certain amount 
of money, payable in merchandise, 
and the payment is not made within 
the time mentioned, the amount can 
be collected in money. It can be as- 
signed to other parties by indorsement. 
$300. Chicago, July 20th, 187 

Thirty days after date, I promise to 
pay Henry Miller, or order, three 
hundred dollars, in good merchant- 
able hay, at market price. 

John D. Hall. 



LEGAL AND BUSINESS INFORMATION. 



379 



A Due Bill is simply a written 
acknowledgment by one person that a 
certain sum is due to the person 
named. 

Boston, 9th June, 187 . 

Due John Hall on demand, seventy 
dollars, value received. 

Frank Sure. 

An Order is a written request from 
one person to another, 

Boston, 9th June, 187 . 
To Henry Jones & Co. 

Please pay to John Hall, or order, 
one hundred and fifty dollars, and 
charge the same to my account. 

Frank Sure. 

A Check presented at a bank where 
payable, for certification, and marked 
good by the proper officers of the 
bank, will bind the bank to pay it. 

A person is not compelled to accept 
or pay the draft of another, although 
he may owe him as much, or a larger 
amount of money, unless he received 
such money for the purpose of protect- 
ing such draft, except he be a banker ; 
in this case, if he holds enough funds 
of the drawer, he must pay it. 

An Agent is one authorized by 
others to act for them in transactions 
with other parties, and may be either 
special or general. Special is when 
the agent is authorized to act in cer- 
tain cases, or capacity named. 

The appointment may be in writing 
or orally, or implied from the action 
of the principal, without showing any 
express authority. 

A Factor can sell goods, deliver 
them, and take payment therefor. 

A Broker differs from a factor in 
that he only arranges the business for 
two principals, but his bought and 
sold notes bind both parties to a con- 
tract. He may receive the purchase 
money only when authorized to do so. 

In contract for sale, the title does not 
' pass to the buyer on delivery, if the 
condition be made that the title shall 
not pass until the goods are paid for, al- 
though they may be delivered at and re- 
main in the store of the purchaser. 

When goods are sold, and only 
require delivery to complete the con- 



tract, if the person buying .nem refuse 
to receive them, the seller may retain 
them, and, first giving notice to th(» 
buyer, may sell them, and, if loss from 
it, he can recover from the refusor. 

Landlord and Tenant. — The per 
son from whom houses or lands are 
holden, or rented, is the Landlord. 

The person who holds, or rents, a 
house or land, is the Tenant. 

A lease is a contract, by which a 
landlord empowers a person to take 
possession of a certain house or land 
in consideration of a certain rent. 

A lease for a longer period than a 
year must be in writing. 

Precaution. — In taking a lease, 
the tenant should carefully examine 
the covenants, or if he take an under- 
lease, he should ascertain the cove- 
nants of the original lease, otherwise, 
when too late, he may find himself so 
restricted in his occupation that the 
premises may be wholly useless for 
his purpose, or he may be involved in 
perpetual difficulties and annoyances ; 
for instance, he may find himself re- 
stricted from making alterations con- 
venient or necessary for his trade ; he 
may find himself compelled to rebuild, 
or pay rent in case of fire ; he may 
find himself subject to forfeiture of 
his lease, or other penalty, if he should 
underlet or assign his interest, carry 
on some particular trade, etc. 

Covenants. — The covenants on the 
landlord's part are usually the grant- 
ing of legal enjoyment of the premises 
to the lessee ; the saving him harmless 
from all other claimants to title ; and 
also for future assurance. 

A tenant is not liable for taxes unless 
it is so stated in the lease. 

Assignments. — Unless there be a 
covenant against assignment, a lease 
may be assigned, that is, the whole in- 
terest of the lessee may be conveyed to 
another, or it may be underlet; if, 
therefore, it is intended that it should 
not, it is proper to insert a covenant to 
restrain the lessee from assigning or 
underletting. Tenants for terras of 
years may assign or underlet, but ten. 
ants at will cannot. 



380 



YOU ask! — i*LL tell! 



Repairs. — A tenant who covenants 
to keep a house in repair is not an- 
ewerable for its natural decay, but is 
bound to keep it wind and water tight, 
80 that it does not decay for want of 
cover. 

Neolect of Repairs by Land- 
lord. — If a landlord covenant to re- 
pair, and neglect to do so, the tenant 
may do it, and withhold so much of 
the rent. But it is advisable that notice 
thereof should be given by the tenant 
to the landlord, in the presence of a wit- 
ness, prior to commencing the repairs. 

Right of Landlord to Enter 
Premises. — A landlord msvy enter 
upon the premises (having given pre- 
vious notice, although not expressed 
in the lease), for the purpose of view- 
ing the state of the property. 

Termination of Leases. — A ten- 
ant must deliver up possession at the 
expiration of the term (the lease being 
sufficient notice), or he will continue 
liable to the rent as tenant by suffer- 
ance without any new contract ; but if 
the landlord recognizes such tenancy 
by accepting a payment of rent after 
the lease has expired, such acceptance 
will constitute a tenancy ; but previous 
to accepting rent, the landlord may 
bring his ejectment without notice; 
for, the lease having expired, the ten- 
ant is a trespasser. A lease covenanted 
to be void if the rent be not paid upon 
the day appointed, is good, unless the 
landlord make an entry. 

Notices. — All notices, of whatever 
description, relating to tenancies, 
should be in writing, and the person 
serving the said notice should write on 
the back thereof a memorandum of 
the date on which it was served, and 
should keep a copy of the said notice, 
with a similar memorandum attached. 

Receipt for Rent. — When an 
agent has been duly authorized, a re- 
ceipt from him for any subsequent 
rent is a legal acquittance to the ten- 
ant, notwithstanding the landlord may 
have revoked the authority under 
which the agent acted, unless the land- 
lord should nave given the tenant no- 
tice thereof. 



Care of Receipts for Rent. — 
Be careful of your last quarter's re- 
ceipt for rent, for the production of 
that document bars all prior claim. 
Even when arrears have been due on 
former quarters, the receipt, if given 
for the last quarter, precludes the land 
lord from recovery thereof. 

Notice to Quit. — When either 
the landlord or tenant intends to ter- 
minate a tenancy, the way to proceed 
is by a notice to quit, which is drawn 
up in the two following ways : 

Form of a Notice to Quit from Ten- 
ant to Landlord. — Sir, — I hereby give 

you notice, that on or before the 

day of next, I shall quit and de- 
liver up possession of the house and 
premises I now hold of you, situate at 

, in the town of , in the county 

of . 

Dated the day of , 187 . 

Witness, G. C. L. O. 

To Mr. R. A. 

Notice from Landlord to Tenant. — 
Sir, — I hereby give you notice to quit 
the house and appurtenances, situate 

No. , which you now hold of me, 

on or before next. 

Dated , 187 . 

(Signed) R. A. (landlord). 

To Mr. L. O. 

A Deed or Conveyance, is a con- 
tract in writing between parties who 
are legally competent to make them. 

Deeds should be recorded in the 
office of the County Clerk, (or it will 
not stand against a subsequent pur- 
chaser in good faith, but it would stand 
as between the parties thereto.) Before 
a deed can be recorded, it must be 
signed by the parties thereto, and wit- 
nesses ; if there are no witnesses, the 
deed should be acknowledged before a 
commissioner. 

A Lien is a right or hold upon a 
property, as security for payment of a 
debt ; or having agreed to sell property, 
he has a lien upon it until the pur- 
chase money is paid. 

A Mortgage is a contract selling 
the property mortgaged to the buyer, 
with the condition that the buyer shall 
not take possession of the property if 



LEGAL AND BUSINESS INFORMATION. 



381 



the mortgager perform the conditions 
of the contract, (the conditions of the 
deed generally are that the mortgager 
shall within a certain time pay a cer- 
tain sum of money, and until that time 
he shall pay interest). All the condi- 
tions being performed, the contract be- 
comes void. 

He who gives a mortgage, is the 
mortgager ; he who receives it is the 
mortgagee. 

A Conveyance is an absolute deed of 
transfer of land. 

A Trust Deed, is a conveyance for a 
special purpose, generally for the in- 
terest of a third party. 

A Quit Claim, is a conveyance of the 
interest the party had at the time it 
was made. 

Contracts for Labor for less than a 
year, need not be in writing. If for 
more than a year, they should be, and 
although it is implied that payment 
will be made, it is best to state the 
amount, and how and when it shall be 
paid, or the amount may be withheld 
until the completion of term of services. 

In the absence of an agreement, the 
reasonable value of the services ren- 
dered may be recovered, but it must be 
shown that he was requested to perform 
the services. 

APPRENTICE is one, either male or 
female, who is bound by agreement in 
writing, to serve or work tor a certain 
specified time, in the interest of the per- 
son to whom he is bound. The em- 
ployer engages to teach the apprentice, 
either by himself or his woriimen, his 
trade, calling, or profession. 

The agreement made is called an in- 
denture, and should state all the partic- 
ulars, such as the nature of the business, 
the duration of the apprenticeship ; 
and if wages are paid, state them, etc. 

If the master to whom an apprentice 
is bound for a particular trade changes 
that trade for another, the indenture 
binding the apprentice becomes null and 
void. 

Apprentice's Indenture. — This 
Indenture witnesseth that J. M., now 
of the age of sixteen years, son of C. 
M., of the town of , in the County 



of , of his own free will and ac- 
cord, and with the consent of his father 
(or mother), places and binds himself 

apprentice to A. B. of , master 

carpenter, to learn the trade, or occu- 
pation of a carpenter, and to serve the 
said A. B. as an apprentice for the full 
term of four years from the date of this 
indenture. During which said term of 
four years, the said J. M. shall, and 
will well and faithfully serve, and de- 
mean himself, and be just and true to 
the said A. B., and everywhere will- 
ingly obey all his lawful commands: 
that he shall do no hurt or damage to 
his said master, in his goods, estate, or 
otherwise : that he shall not traffic, of 
buy and sell with his own goods, or 
the goods of others, during the said 
term, without his master's leave : that 
he shall not, at any time, by day or 
night, depart, or absent himself from 
the service of his said master, without 
his leave ; but in all things, as a good 
and faithful apprentice, shall, and will, 
demean and behave himself, to his 
said master, during the said term. 

And the said A. B, doth covenant, 
and agree, to teach and instruct the 
said apprentice, in the said trade of a 
carpenter, after the best way and man- 
ner that he can, and to find, and allow, 
unto his said apprentice, vieat, drink, 
washing, lodging, and apparel, including 
linen, and all other necessaries, in sick- 
ness and in health, meet and convenient 
for such an apprentice, during the term 
aforesaid ; and at the expiration of the 
said term, shall, and will, give to hi» 
said apprentice an entire new suit of 
clothes, of a cash value of Thirty-five 
dollars, and a neiv set of carpenter's 
tools, of a cash value of Forty dollars ; 
and for the true performance of all, and 
singular, the covenants and agreements 
aforesaid, the parties hereto bind them- 
selves, each unto the other, finally by 
these presents. 

Witness our hands and seals, this 
day of in the year one thousand 
eight hundred and 
Signed, sealed, and 

delivered in pres 

ence of 



■1 



A. B. 


'seal. 


J. M. 


SEAL. 


CM. 


SEAL., 



382 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Not*. — If it it not intendfd to board and clothe the 
apprentice, then omit the, part in italici, and insert the 
following : the sum of six dollars per week for the 
first year, eight dollars per meek for the second 
year, ten dollars per week for the third year, and 
twelve dollars per week for the fourth year, in each 
^ase to ^e paid weekly. 

PARTNERSHIP is an association 
of two or more persons, to carry on a 
business, and to share the profits and 
losses. The contract may be oral, or 
In writing. It is always best to have 
it in writing, and state what the busi- 
ness is, what each person is to do, 
how the profits are to be paid, etc. 

Partnerships may be general or spe- 
cial. 

General partnership may be carried 
on under the name of one or more 
of the partners ; and although an old- 
established business may be carried on 
under the name of the former partners, 
A new business cannot be started in the 
name of a person not interested in the 
firm. 

If no provision is made in the 
agreement, one partner cannot place 
another person as a partner in the firm 
without the consent of the other. If 
he should sell out his interest, the 
buyer would only be entitled to the 
amount which it would realize after the 
debts were paid. 

A partner has no right to use the name 
of the firm in his individual business. 

Special partners are those who fur- 
nish money for capital, and are not 
liable beyond the amount they agree 
to invest in the business. To form a 
special partnership, a certificate must 
be signed and acknowledged before a 
Notary Public (or other proper officer), 
giving the name of the firm, the na- 
ture of the business, the names and 
residences of all the partners,the amount 
of money contributed by the special 
partners, and the date at which the 
partnership is to begin and terminate. 

A WILL is an instrument in writ- 
ing, by wliich a person makes disposi- 
tion of his property. The person 
mahnng it should state fully and 
plainly his intention, describe prop- 
erty by its exact location, and persons 
by their proper names in full. 



The person making a will is called 
the testator, who must write his own 
name in full at the end of the will, 
and must be attested by two witnesses, 
who should write their residences after 
their names. 

If the testator is unable, from any 
cause, to sign his name, he may request 
some one to write it for him. The 
person so signint the testator's name 
must also write his own name, in the 
presence of two other witnesses. 

A Codicil is ati addition to a will, 
either altering it or explaining, and 
must be signed in th» same manner as 
a will. 

No Will is Vai id unless it is in 
Writing, signed at the foot or end 
thereof by the testator, or by some 
other person in his presence, and by 
his direction. And such signature 
must be made or acknowledged by the 
testator, in the presence of two or more 
witnesses, all of whom must be pres- 
ent at the same time ; .md such wit- 
nesses must attest and subscribe the 
will in the presence and with the 
knowledge of the testator. 

A Will or Codicil ONCii made 
cannot be altered or revoked, unless 
through a similar formal process to 
that under which it was made, or by 
some other writing declaring an in- 
tention to revoke the same, and exe- 
cuted in the manner in which an 
original will is required to be executed, 
or by the burning, tearing, or otherwise 
destroying the same by the testator, or 
by some person in his presence and by 
his direction, with the intention of re- 
voking the same. 

No Will or Codicil, or any part 
of either, that has once been revoked 
by any or all of these acts, can be re- 
vived again, unless it be executed ia 
the manner that a fresh will or codicil 
is required to be. 

Alterations in Wills or Codi- 
cils require the signature of the tes- 
tator and of two witnesses to be made 
upon the margin, or upon some other 
part of the will, opposite or near to the 
alteration. 

Where Property is Consider*- 



LEGAL AND BUSINESS INFORMATION. 



383 



BliE, and of different kinds, — or even 
where inconsiderable, if of different 
kinds — and to be disposed of to married 
or other persons, or for the benefit of 
children, for charities, or trusts of any 
description, it is absolutely necessary 
and proper that a qualified legal ad- 
viser should superintend the execution 
of the will. 

When a Person has Resolved 
UPON Making a Will, he should 
select from among his friends persons 
of trust to become his executors, and 
should obtain their consent to act. And 
it is advisable that a duplicate copy of 
the will should be entrusted to the ex- 
ecutor or executors. Or he should 
otherwise deposit a copy of his will, or 
the original will, in the oflice provided 
by the Probate Court for the safe cus- 
tody of wills. 

The following is a Simple Form 
OF Will: — This is the last will and 

testament of J B — , of Brooklyn, 

New York : I hereby give, devise, and 
bequeath to my wife, Mary B — , her 
heirs, executors, and administrators, 
for her and their own use and benefit, 
absolutely and forever, all my estate 
and effects, both real and personal, 
whatsoever and wheresoever, and of 
what nature and quality soever ; and I 
hereby appoint her, the said Mary B — , 
sole executrix of this my will. In wit- 
ness whereof I have hereunto set my 
hand this twentieth day of January, 
one thousand eight hundred and sixty- 
four. John B — . [seal.] 

Signed by the said John B in the 

presence of us, present at the same time, 
who, in his presence, and in the pres- 
ence of each other, attest and subscribe 
our names as witnesses hereto. 
John Smith, 

Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Joseph Wilson, 

New Haven, Conn. 

Other Forms of Wills give par- 
ticular legacies to adults, or to infants, 
with direction for application of in- 
terest during minority ; to infants, to 
be paid at twenty-one without interest ; 
ioecific legacies of government stock ; 



general legacies of ditto ; specific lega- 
cies of leasehold property or household 
property ; immediate or deferred an- 
nuities ; to daughters or sons for life, 
and after them their children ; legacies 
with directions for the application of 
the money; bequests to wife, with 
conditions as to future marriage ; de- 
fine the powers of trustees, provide for 
and direct the payment of debts, etc. 
All these more complicated forms of 
wills require the superintendence of a 
professional adviser. 

It should be remembered that a 
false economy in saving the amount 
which an honest and competent lawyer 
would charge for his services in draw- 
ing up and executing a will, results 
sometimes in the squandering of 
thousands of dollars in litigations, after 
the death of the testator. 

A Power of Attorney is an au- 
thority given by one person to another 
to act in his behalf; such authority 
may be special, or general. When 
special, the particular matter or busi- 
ness is mentioned ; when general, it is 
to act for the person in all matters 
or business that may arise. 

The person to whom the power to 
act is given, is called an attorney. 

An attorney cannot delegate his 
power without express permission from 
his principal. A power of attorney 
may be withdrawn by revocation at 
any time, but its effect as to third per- 
sons takes effect only from the time 
they have notice of it. 

Know all men by these pres- 
ents, That I, A. B., of Boston, Mass., 
have made, constituted, and by these 
presents do make, constitute, and ap- 
point C. D., of Worcester, Mass., my 
true and lawful attorney, for me and 
in my name, place and stead, to 
[here insert the particulars], giving 
and granting unto my said attorney 
full power and authority to do and 
perform all and every act and thing 
whatsoever requisite and necessary to 
be done in and about the premises, as 
fully, to all intents and purposes, as T 
might or could do if personally present, 
with full power of substitution and 



384 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



revocation, hereby ratifying and con- 
firming ail that my said attorney (or 
his substitute) shall lawfully do, or 
cause to be done, by virtue hereof. 

In witness whereof, I have hereunto 
set my hand and seal, this fifth day of 
March, 187 

A. B. [seal.] 

Sealed and delivered ) 

in the presence of V 

M.A. ] 

Know all men by these pres- 
ents. That whereas I, A. B., of Boston, 
Mass., by my letter of attorney bearing 
date of fifth day of March, 187 , did 
appoint C. D., of Worcester, Mass., 
my attorney to [insert the parttculars], 
as by the said letter of attorney will 
appear : Now know ye that I, the 
said A. B., do by these presents revoke, 
countermand, and make void the said 
letter of attorney, and all power and 
authority thereby given, or intended 
to be given, to the said C. D. 

In witness whereof, I have hereunto 
set my hand and seal, this tenth day 
of May, 187 

A. B. [seal.] 

Sealed and delivered 
in the presence of 
E. M 

Common Carriers. — Express 
companies, and persons who transport 
goods for others as a business, also 
railway companies, owners of steam- 
boats, and stage coaches, who carry 
passengers, are common carriers, and 
as such are liable for the full value of 
goods entrusted to them, if not deliv- 
ered by them as directed. 

They are also liable for damage to 
goods while in their possession, unless 
such damage is caused by the ele- 
ments, or the acts of the common 
enemy. 

The liability of a carrier com- 
mences as soon as he receives them, 
and continues until he has delivered 
them. 

A carrier may refuse to receive 
goods for transport, if the sender re- 
fuses to pay the usual freight charge ; 
and if he takes them to be paid at the 



\ 



destination, he may retain them thtre 
until the freight charge is paid. It is 
usual for carriers, on their bills, to 
declare their non-liability, but this 
will not exempt them from damage, 
loss, or fraud, caused either by omis- 
sion or commission of themselves, or 
agents. But they may make a condi- 
tion that they will not be answerable 
for any package (or personal bag- 
gage) beyond a certain value, unless 
such value is stated and paid for ac- 
cordingly. 

MARRIAGE. — Mutual consent is 
the basis of marriage ; no particular 
form is necessary. The consent of the 
parties to a marriage given before a 
clergyman, a magistrate, or other rep- 
utable witnesses, is sufficient. Infants 
— that is, males under the age of four- 
teen, and females under the age of 
twelve — and persons of unsound mind_ 
cannot legally marry ; neither can a 
man who has a former wife living, 
from whom he has not been legally 
divorced. The consent of parents, oi 
guardians, for persons under twenty- 
one years of age, is generally required 
by an oflUciating minister; but it is 
not legally necessary. 

If a man and woman, who are 
living as man and wife, shall, in the 
presence of respectable witnesses, de- 
clare that they are man and wife, the 
declaration being made by one and 
assented to by the other, will consti- 
tute a marriage valid in law. 

Parol Evidence of the purport 
of a written document will be ad- 
mitted, if it is proven that the docu- 
ment is lost. 

In the Construction of contracts, 
the intent of the parties must be con- 
sidered. 

A MAN cannot take advantage of 
his own wrong. 

If a man contract to perforia 
certain labor, and is prevented by 
sickness from completing, he can re- 
cover for the portion done. 

Principals are responsible for the 
acts of their agents. 

When Contrary laws come ia 
question, the superior laws must 



BUSINESS INFORMATION. 



385 



Btand. A new law will stand before an 
old one. 

Time and Distance Table. 



NAMES OP CITIES. 


Ao. 0/ milei 
New York. 


Time at 
eachplof. 


New York City 




87 

185 

225 

353 

1597 
401 
934 

1087 
799 
825 
650 
663 
422 
898 
581 
481 
431 
146 
236 


12-00 


Philadelphia, Pa 


11-56 




11-50 




11-48 




11-46 




10-56 




11-58 




1114 




10-65 




11-19 




11-44 




11-24 




11-24 


Buffalo, N. Y 


11-41 


Chicago, 111 


11-06 




11 30 


Wheeliug, W. Va 


11-33 


Pittsburg, Pa 


11-36 


Albany, N. Y 


11-58 


lioston. Mass 


12-12 



Legal Rates of Interest. 


8TATKS. 


LXOAI. 


Conrentional 
Dot exctcdiog. 


Alabama 


Per cent. 

8 

6 
10 

6 

6 

8 

7 

6 

6 

6 

7 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

T 

6 

6 

7 
10 
10 

6 

7 

7 

6 

8 
10 

6 

6 

7 

6 

8 

6 

6 

6 

7 
10 




Arkansas 


as agreed. 


California 




as agreed. 


Delaware 


Florida 






as agreed. 
10 




Indiana 






10 


Kansas 

Kentucky 


12 
10 


Louisiana 


8 
as agreed. 


Maryland 




as agreed. 
10 




Mississippi 


as agreed. 
10 






12 




12 


Nevada 




New Hampshire 








New York 






8 


Ohio 






12 


Pennsylvania 






as agreed. 

as agreed. 

10 






Texas. 


12 




g 


West Virginia 






10 


District of Columbia 


as agreed. 



Note. — In some States it is allowed to cliarge a 
hfjgher rate of interest, if a written agreement is 
made ; this is called the conrentional rate. In 
those States where no agreement is made, the legal 
rate only is allowed. 

To find the interest on a given sum, 
for any number of days, at any rate of 
interest : 

At five per cent., multiply the principal by the 

number of days, and divide by 72 

At 6 per cent., as above, and divide by 60 

7 " " " 52 

8 " " " 45 

9 " " « 40 

10 " " «■ 36 

12 " " " 30 

16 " " " 24 

20 " " " 18 

Table showing how many years it 
will take money to double itself at va- 
rious rates of interest : 



KATE OF IN- 


SIMPLE IN- 


TEREST. 


TEREST. 


1 per cent. 


100 years. 


VA" " 


66^ " 


2 " » 


50 " 


2^ u ,. 


40 " 


3 " " 
3>i" " 


331^ " 
28>| " 


4 " " 


25 


414" " 


2-214 " 


5 " " 


20 


5^ " " 


181^ « 


6 " " 


i6% " 


61^" " 


i4l " 

13i| « 
11^ " 


714 " " 


8 " " 


9 " '' 


11 


91^'; « 


1014 " 


10 " " 


10 



COMPOUND IN- 
TEREST. 



69% yeari, 

46>^ " 

35 « 

28 " 

2314 « 

201 « 

i ' 

If ' 

12 " 

11 « 

Y' :: 

^^ :: 

7i| " 



25 



Value of Foreign Coins in U. S. 
Gold. 

Pound Sterling (Sovereign), England $4 88 

Crown, " 1 15 

Shilling, « 22 

Twenty Francs (Napoleon), France 3 84 

Five Francs " 98 

One hundred Reals, Spain 4 96 

Pistareen (new) " 20 

Doubloon, Mexico 15 61 

Dollar, " 1 06 

Ten Thaler, Germany, North 7 90 

Crown, " " 6 64 

Ducat, " South 2 27 

Thaler (new) " North 73 

Florin, " South 41 

Ten Thaler, Denmark 7 90 

Two Kigsdaler, " 1 10 

Ten Guilders, Netherlands 3 99 

Ducat, Sweden , 2 23 

Rix dollar, " 1 H 

Ducat, Austria 2 28 

Twenty Liri, Italy 3 84 

Gold Crown, Portugal 6 80 

Five Livre, Sardinia 98 



386 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



Value of Foreign Money of Account 
in the U. S. 



1 Florin, Amsterdam $ 

1 Thaler, Berlin 

1 8. Daler, Bremen 

1 Rupee, Calcutta 

1 8. Daler, Christiana 1 

1 Medjidii, CouHtautinople 3 

1 8. Daler, Copenhagen 1 

1 Florin., Frankfort 

1 Lira, Genoa 

1 m. Banco, Hamburg 



zbji 



1 Milreis, Lisbon $1 12 

1 Pound, London 4 86 

1 Duro, Madrid 1 00 

1 Ducat, Naples 80 

1 Owza, Palermo 2 40 

1 Franc, Paris 19^^ 

1 Tael, Pekin 1 48 

1 Milreis, Rio de Janeiro 51^ 

1 8. Romano, Rome 99^ 

1 s. Rouble, St. Petersburg 76 

1 Daler, Stockholm 1 06 

1 Lira, Venice 16 

1 Florin, Vienna iS}^ 



A Table of the Number of Days from any 
same Day of any other 



Day of one Month to the 
Month. 



FROM 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


May. 


June. 


July. 


Aug. 


Sept. 


Oct. 


Not. 


Dec. 


To January 


365 


334 


306 


275 


245 


214 


184 


153 


122 


92 


61 


31 




February 


31 


365 


337 


306 


276 


245 


215 


184 


153 


123 


92 


62 




March 


59 


28 


365 


334 


304 


273 


243 


212 


181 


151 


120 


90 




April 


90 


59 


31 


365 


335 


304 


274 


243 


212 


182 


151 


121 




May 


120 


89 


61 


30 


365 


334 


304 


273 


242 


212 


181 


151 




June 


151 


120 


92 


61 


31 


365 


334 


304 


273 


243 


212 


182 




July 


181 


150 


122 


91 


61 


30 


365 


334 


303 


273 


242 


212 




August 


212 


181 


153 


122 


92 


61 


31 


365 


334 


304 


273 


243 




September 


243 


212 


184 


163 


122 


92 


61 


31 


365 


335 


304 


274 




October 


273 


242 


214 


183 


153 


122 


92 


61 


30 


365 


334 


304 




November 


304 


273 


245 


214 


184 


153 


123 


92 


61 


31 


365 


335 




December 


384 


308 


975 


944 


214 


188 


153 


^n 


91 


61 


30 


365 





























USE OP THE ABOVE TABLE. 
What is the number of dayg from 10th October to 10th July ? 

Look in the upper line for October, let your eye descend down that column till you come oppodM to 
July, and you will find 273 days, the exact number of days required. 

Again, required the number of days from 16th February to the 14th August? 

Under February, and opposite to August, is 181 days. 

From which subtract the difference beween 14 and 16 2 dayf. 

The exact number of da>« required is 179 days. 

N. B. — In Leap Year, if the last day of February comes between, add one day for the day OTer V} Vb» 
nnmber in the T«Ue. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



387 



When Gold u at 


Currency 


is at 


$100 Currency 
will buy 


Sperct.prem. 


4-77 per ct 


disc't. 


In gold, $95 23 


10 « " 


9-10 " 




90 90 


15 " 


1304 




86 96 


20 " 


16-67 " 




83 33 


26 " 


2000 " 




" 80 00 


30 " 


•2808 " 




76 92 


40 " 


28-58 




71 42 


60 " 


33-33 




66 66 


60 " 


37-60 




62 50 


70 " 


4M8 




58 82 


80 " 


44-45 " 




56 55 


90 " " 


47-37 




52 63 


lOO " 


50-00 




50 00 



Avoirdupois Weight. 

{For groceries and heavy goods. ) 
16 drams equal 1 ounce. 

16 ounces " 1 pound. 

112 pounds " 1 cwt. 

20 cwt., or 2240 pounds, 1 ton. 

Troy Weight. 

{For Jewellers.) 
24 grains equal 1 pennyweight. 

20 pennyweights " 1 ounce. 
12 ounces " 1 pound. 

Cloth Measure. 

2\ inches equal 1 nail. 

4 nails " 1 quarter yard. 

4 quarters " 1 yard. 

Dry Measure. 

4 quarts equal 1 gallon. 

2 gallons " 1 peck. 

4 pecks " 1 bushel. 

36 bushels " 1 chaldron. 

Liquid Measure. 



4 gills 


equal 1 pint. 


2 pints 


" 1 quart. 


4 quarts 


" 1 gallon. 


31 1 gallons 


" 1 barrel. 


42 gallons 


" 1 tierce. 


63 gallons 


" 1 hogshead. 


84 gallons 


" 1 puncheon. 


126 gallons 


" 1 pipe or butt. 


262 gallons 


" 1 lun. 


Long 


Measure. 


3 barleycorns 


equal 1 inch. 


12 inches 


" 1 foot. 


3 feet 


" 1 yard. 


6 feet 


" 1 fathom. 


6J yards 


" 1 rod or perch 


40 rods 


" 1 furlong. 



Long Measure {contimied), 

8 furlongs equal 1 mile. 

3 miles " 1 league. 

69f miles " 1 degree, 

360 degrees the circumference of tte 
earth. 

Land (or Square) Measure. 

144 square inches equal 1 square foot. 

9 square feet " 1 square yard, 
oAi J- « 2 square rod. 

1 rood, 

1 acre. 

1 qua'r section 

1 square mile. 



V square itjet 

30 J square yards 
40 square rods 
4 roods 
160 acres 
640 acres 



Distance Measure. 

7/5^5 inches 

25 links 

4 rods 

10 chains 

1 square chain 

80 chains 

10 square chains 



equal 1 link. 
" 1 rod. 
" 1 chain. 
" 1 furlong. 
" 16 square pole& 
" 1 mile. 



Cubic (Solid) Measure. 

1728 cubic (solid) inches=l cubic foot. 

27 " feet equal 1 " yard. 

16^ " feet " 1 " perch 

40 " feet round timber =1 ton. 

50 " feet hewn " =1 ton. 

42 " feet equal 1 ton shipping. 

128 " feet " 1 cord wood. 

Jewish Long Measure. 

A cubit equals lyWa ^cet. 

A Sabbath day's journey " 3648 " 
A mile " 7296 " 

A day's journey " 33^ miles 



American mile 


equa' 


s 5,280 feet 


English 


(( 




5,280 " 


Irish 


« 




6,720 " 


Scotch 


« 




7,920 " 


Russian 


(1 




3,300 " 


Italian 


« 




5,566 " 


German 


(( 




26,400 " 


Dutch 


(< 




21,120 " 


Spanish 


(( 




21,120 " 


Polish 


« 




21,120 " 


Indian 


(1 




15,840 " 



388 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



SUNDRIES. 

24 sheets of papenuake 1 quire. 
20 quires " " 1 ream. 

Barrel of flour contains 196 pounds. 
Barrel of Beef or Pork " 200 
Peck of salt weighs 14 " 

1 cubic foot of Anthracite coal weighs 

50 to 55 pounds. 
1 cubic foot of bituminous coal weighs 

45 to 55 pounds. 
1 cubic foot of charcoal 18 pounds. 
28i bushels of coal, or 1 , . 
m cubic feet, | ^ ^^°- 

Habits of a Man of Business. — A 

sacred regard to the principles of jus- 
tice forms the basis of every transac- 
tion, and regulates the conduct of the 
upright man of business. 

He is strict in keeping his engage- 
ments. 

Does nothing carelessly or in a hurry. 

Employs nobody to do what he can 
easily do himself. 

Keeps everything in its proper place. 

Leaves nothing undone that ought 
to be done, and which circumstances 
permit him to do. 

Keeps his designs and business from 
the view of others. 

Is prompt and decisive with custom- 
ers, and does not over-trade his capital. 

Prefers short credits to long ones ; 
and cash to credit at all times, either in 
buying or selling ; and small profits in 
credit cases with little risk, to the chance 
of better gains with more hazard. 

He is clear and explicit in all his 
bargains. 

Leaves nothing of consequence to 
memory which he can and ought to 
commit to writing. 

Keeps copies of all his important let- 
ters which he sends away, and has every 
letter, invoice, etc., belonging to his 
business, titled, classed, and put away. 

Never suffers his desk to be confused 
by many papers lying upon it. 

Is always at the head of his business, 
well knowing that if he leaves it, it 
will leave him. 

Holds it as a maxim that he whose 
credit is suspected is not one to be 
trusted. 



Is constantly examining his books, 
and sees through all his affairs as far 
as care and attention will enable him. 

Balances regularly at stated times, 
and then makes out and transmits all 
his accounts current to his customers, 
both at home and abroad. 

Avoids as much as possible all sorts of 
accommodation in money matters, and 
lawsuits where there is the least hazard. 

He is economical in his expenditure, 
always living within his income. 

Keeps a memorandum-book in his 
pocket, in which he notes every par- 
ticular relative to appointments, ad- 
dresses, and petty cash matters. 

Is cautious how he becomes security 
for any person ; and is generous when 
urged by motives of humanity. 

Let a man act strictly to these habits 
— ever remembering that he hath no 
profits by his pains whom Providence 
doth not prosper — and success will at- 
tend his eflforts. 

Taking a Store or Place of Busi- 
ness. — If you are about to take a 
place of business, you will do well to 
consider the following remarks : 

Small Capitalists. — Let us take 
the case of a person who has no inti- 
mate knowledge of any i>articular trade, 
but having a very small capital, is 
about to embark it in the exchange of 
commodities for cash, in order to ob- 
tain an honest livelihood thereby. It 
is clear, that unless such a person starts 
with proper precaution and judgment, 
the capital will be expended without 
adequate results; rent and taxes will 
accumulate, the stock will lie dead or 
become deteriorated, and loss and ruia 
must follow. For the least absorption 
acting upon a small capital will soon 
dry up its source ; and we need not pic- 
ture the trouble that will arise when 
the mainspring of a tradesman's success 
abides by him no more. 

Larger Capitalists. — The case 
of the larger capitalist can scarcely be 
considered an exception to the same 
rule. For it is probable that the larger 
capitalist, upon commencing a busi- 
ness, would sink more of his funds in 
a larger stock — would incur liability 



A BUSINESS LOCATION". 



389 



to a heavier reut ; and the attendant 
taxes, the wages of assistants and ser- 
vants, would be greater, and, therefore, 
if the return came not speedily, simi- 
lar consequences must sooner or later 
ensue- 

Localities. — Large or small cap- 
italists should, therefore, upon entering 
on a storekeeping speculation, consider 
well the nature of the locality in which 
they propose to carry on trade, the 
number of the population, the habits 
and wants of the people, and the 
extent to which they are already sup- 
plied with the goods which the new 
adventurer proposes to offer them. 

New Neighborhoods. — There is 
a tendency among small capitalists to 
rush into new neighborhoods with the 
expectation of making an early con- 
nection. Low rents also serve as an 
attraction to these localities. We 
have found, however, in our experience, 
that the early suburban places seldom 
succeed. They are generally entered 
upon at the very earliest moment that 
the state of the locality will permit — 
often before the house is finished the 
Btore is tenanted, and goods exposed 
for sale — even while the streets are 
unpaved, and while the roads are as 
rough and uneven as country lanes. 
The consequence is, that as the few 
inhabitants of these localities have fre- 
quent communication with adjacent 
towns, they, as a matter of habit or 
of choice, supply their chief wants 
thereat; and the suburban dealer de- 
pends principally for support upon the 
accidental forgetfulness of his neigh- 
bor, who omits to bring something 
from the cheaper and better market; 
or upon the changes of the weather, 
which may sometimes favor him by 
rendering a "trip to town" exceed- 
ingly undesirable. 

Failures. — " While the grass is 
growing the horse is starving ; " and 
thus, while the new district is becom- 
ing peopled, the funds of the small 
tradesman are gradually eaten up, and 
he puts up his shutters just at the time 
when a more cautious speculator steps 
in to profit by the connection already 



formed, and to take advantage of the 
now improved condition of the locality. 
It seems, therefore, desirable for the 
small capitalist rather to run the risk 
of a more expensive rent, in a well- 
peopled district, than to resort to 
places of slow and uncertain demand ; 
for the welfare of the small dealer de- 
pends entirely upon the frequency 
with which his limited stock is cleared 
out and replaced by fresh supplies. 

Precautions. — But should the 
small capitalist still prefer opening in 
a suburban district, where competition 
is less severe, and rents and rates less 
burdensome, there are certain precau- 
tions which he will do well to observe. 
He should particularly guard against 
opening a shop to supply what may be 
termed the superfluities of life; for the 
inhabitants of suburban districts are 
those who, like himself, have resorted 
to a cheap residence for the sake of 
economy. Or, if this be not the case 
— if they are people of independent 
means, who prefer the " detached 
villa" to the town house, squeezed up 
on both sides, they have the means of 
riding and driving to town, and will 
prefer choosing articles of taste and 
luxury from the best marts, enriched 
by the finest display. 

Necessities or Luxuries. — The 
suburban storekeeper should, there- 
fore, confine himself to supplying the 
necessities of life. Hungry people dis- 
like to fetch their bread from five miles 
off; and to bring vegetables from a 
long distance would evidently be a 
matter of considerable inconvenience. 
The baker, the butcher, the grocer, 
etc., are those who find their trade 
first established in suburban localities. 
And not until these are doing well 
should the tailor, the shoemaker, the 
hatter, the draper, the hosier, and 
others, expect to find a return for their 
capital and reward for their labor. 

Civility. — In larger localities, 
where competition abounds, the small 
dealer frequently outstrips his more 
powerful rival by one element of suc- 
cess, which may be added to any stock 
without cost, but cannot be withheld 



390 



YOU ask! — I'r-T, TEI.lJ 



without losa. That element is civility. 
It has already been spoken of else- 
where, but must be enforced here, as 
aiding the little means of the small 
trader to a wojiderful degree. A kind 
and obliging manner carries with it an 
indescribable charm. It must not be 
a manner which indicates a mean, 
grovelling, time-serving spirit, but a 
plain, open, and agreeable demeanor, 
which seems to desire to oblige for the 
pleasure of doing so, and not for the 
.lake of squeezing an extra penny out 
of H customer's pocket. 

Integrity. — The sole reliance of 
the storekeeper should be in the in- 
tegrity of his transactions, and in the 
civility of his demeanor. He should 
make it the interest and the pleasure 
of the customer to come to his place. 
If he does this, he will form the very 
best " connections," and so long as he 
continues this system of business, they 
will never desert him. 

Duties op a Storekeeper. — He 
should cheerfully render his best labor 
and knowledge to serve those who ap- 
proach his counter, and place confi- 
dence in his transactions ; make him- 
self alike to rich and poor, but never 
resort to mean subterfuge and decep- 
tion to gain approbation and support. 
He should be frugal in his expendi- 
ture, that, in deriving profits from 
trade, he may not trespass unduly 
upon the interests of others; he should 
so hold the balance between man and 
man that he should feel nothing to re- 
prove his conscience when the day 
comes for him to repose from his 
labors and live upon the fruits of his 
industry. Let the public discover 
such a man, and they will flock around 
him for their own sake.s. 

Early Rising. — The diflerence be- 
tween rising every morning at six and 
at eight, in the course of forty years, 
amounts to 29,200 hours, or three years 
one hundred and twenty-one days and 
sixteen hours, which are equal to eight 
hours a day for exactly ten years. So 
that rising at six will be the same as if 
ten years of life (a weighty considera- 
tion) were added, wherein we may 



command eight hours every day for the 
cultivation of our minds and the de- 
spatch of business. 

FRUGALITY.— The great philoso- 
pher, Dr. Franklin, inspired the mouth- 
piece of his own eloquence, " Poor 
Richard," with " many a gem of purest 
ray serene," encased in the homely 
garb of proverbial truisms. On the 
subject of frugality we cannot do better 
than take the worthy Mentor for our 
text, and from it address our remarks. 
A man may, if he knows not how to 
save as he gets, " keep his nose all his 
life to the grindstone, and die not worth 
a groat at last. A fat kitchen makes a 
lean will." 

" Many estates are speut in getting, 

Since women for tea forsook spinning and knitting. 

And men for punch forsook hewing and splitting." 

If you would be wealthy, think of 
saving as well as of getting. The In- 
dies have not made Spain rich, because 
her out-goes are greater than her in- 
comes. 

Away with your expensive follies, 
and you will not have so much cause 
to complain of hard times, heavy 
taxes, and chargeable families. 

" What maintains one vice would 
bring up two children." 

You may think, perhaps, that a 
little tea, or superfluities now and then, 
diet a little more costly, clothes a little 
finer, and a little entertainment now 
and then, can be no great matter; but 
remember, " Many a little makes a 
mickle." 

Beware of little expenses : " A small 
leak will sink a great ship," as Poor 
Richard says ; and again, " Who dain- 
ties love, shall beggars prove;" and 
moreover, " Fools make feasts and wise 
men eat them." 

Here you are all got together to this 
sale of fineries and nick-nacks. You 
call them goods ; but if you do not take 
care they will prove evils to some of 
you. You expect they will be sold 
cheap, and perhaps they may, for less 
than they cost; but if you have no oc- 
casion for them they must be dear to you. 

Remember what Poor Richard says, 



PAY AS YOU GO. 



391 



*' Buy what thou hast no need of, and 
ere long thou shalt sell thy neces- 
saries." 

" At a great pennyworth, pause 
awhile." He means, perhaps, that the 
cheapness is apparent only, and not 
real ; or the bargain, by straitening thee 
in thy business, may do thee more harm 
than good ; for in another place he 
says, " Many have been ruined by 
buying good pennyworths." 

" It is foolish to lay out money in 
the purchase of repentance ; " and 
yet this folly is practised every day 
at auctions for want of minding the 
Almanack. 

Cash and Credit. — If you would get 
rich, don't deal in bill books. Credit 
is the " Tempter in a new shape." Buy 
goods on trust, and you will purchase 
a thousand articles that cash would 
never have dreamed of. A dollar in the 
hand looks larger than ten dollars seen 
through the perspective of a three 
months' bill. Cash is practical, while 
credit takes horribly to taste and ro- 
mance. Let cash buy a dinner, and 
you will have a beefsteak flanked with 
onions. Send credit to market, and 
he will return with eight pairs of 
woodcocks and a peck of mushrooms. 
Credit believes in diamond pins and 
champagne suppers. Cash is more 
easily satisfied. Give him three meals 
a day, and he doesn't care much if two 
of them are made up of roasted pota- 
toes and a little dirty salt. Cash is a 
good adviser, while credit is a good 
fellow to be on visiting terms with. If 
you want double chins and content- 
ment, do business with cash. 



Don't Run in Debt. 

"Don't run in debt;" — neror mind, never mind 

If your clothes are faded and torn : 
Seam them up, make them do ; it ia better by far 

Than to have the heart weary and worn. 

Who '11 love you the more for the shape of your hat, 

Or your ruff, or the tie of your shoe, 
The cut of your vest, or your boots, or cravat, 

If they know you 're in debt for the new? 

There 's no comfort, I tell you, in walking the street 
In fine clothes, if you know you're in debt; 

A'id feel that, percliance, you some tradesman may 
leet, 
'^ho will sneer — " They 're not paid for yet." 

Good friends, let me beg of you, don't run in debt 

If the chairs and the sofas are old. 
They will fit your back better than any new set, 

Unless they are paid for — with gold. 

If the house is too small draw the closer togethef. 
Keep it warm with a hearty good will ; 

A big one unpaid for, in all kiuds of weather. 
Will send to your warm heart a chill. 

Don't run in debt — now, dear girls, take a hint. 
If the fashions have changed since last season, 

Old Nature is out in the very same tint, 
And old Nature, we think, has some reason. 

But just say to your friend, that you cannot afford 
To spemd time to keep up with the fashion: 

That your purse is too light, and your honor to« 
bright. 
To be tarnished with such silly passion. 

Gents, don't run in debt — let your friends, if th^ 
can. 

Have fine houses, and feathers, and flowers ; 
But, unless they are paid for, be more of ^ man 

Than to envy their sunshiny hours. 

If you 've money to spare, I have nothing to say — 
Spend your silver and gold as you please ; 

But mind you, the man who his bill has to pay 
Is the man who is never at ease. 

Oh ! take my advice — it is good, it is true 1 
But, lest you may some of you doubt it, 

I '11 whisper a secret now, seeing 'tis you — 
I have tried it, and know all about it : 

The chain of a debtor is heavy and cold. 

Its links all corrosion and rust ; 
Gild it o^er as you will, it is never of gold, 

Then spurn it aside with disgtisl. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



In-Door and Out-Door Games — Chess and Whist Fully Explained- 
Thoughts about Conundrums and Charades. 



Amusements Needed. — There can 
be no question that the mental and 
physical requirements of our people are 
almost wholly ignored ; and although 
there has been a marked change in 
this respect within the last few years, 
there is ample room for improvement. 
Business and professional men take far 
too little recreation and exercise ; and 
although the ban is somewhat removed 
which for so long was held over the 
clerical profession, some of the old 
prejudice remains which forbids re- 
creation, especially field-sports, to that 
class. Chess and playing upon musi- 
cal instruments, even the violin, is al- 
lowed to the minister. Indeed, the 
canons of propriety have been so far 
infringed as to allow him an occasional 
indulgence in the unorthodox game 
of checkers — but should he appear in 
shooting jacket, it is regarded as a 
thing, if not exactly wicked, that is 
" greatly to be deprecated on the part 
of our minister." It is to be feared also 
that our national game of ball, which, 
when first introduced, seemed to be 
exactly suited to the purpose for which 
it was designed, is fast losing its use- 
fulness. Upon its first introduction it 
apj)eiired to be just the thing. Clerks 
and employers could run out and take 
a hand at ball ; but its very popularity 
soon defeated its original aims. Like 
the game of " cricket " in England, it 
has now become so scientific in its 
tharactei that only those are willing 
to play it who have gone through a 
regular professional course of training. 

392 



Evening Pastime. — Among the 
innocent recreations of the fireside, 
there are few more commendable and 
practicable than .those afforded by 
what are severally termed Anagrams, 
Charades, Conundrums, Enigmas, Puz- 
zles, Rebuses, Riddles, Transpositions, 
etc. Of these there are such a variety, 
that they are suited to every capacity ; 
and they present this additional at- 
traction, that ingenuity may be exer- 
cised in the hniention of them, as well 
as in their solution. Many persons 
who have become noted for their liter- 
ary compositions may date the origin 
of their success to the time when they 
attempted the composition of a trifling 
enigma or charade. 

Anagrams are formed by the trans- 
position of the letters of words or sen- 
tences, or names of persons, so as to 
produce a word, sentence, or verse, of 
pertinent or of widely different mean- 
ing. They are A'ery difficult to dis- 
cover, but are exceedingly striking 
when good. The following are some 
of the most remarkable : 

Transposed Formt. 

Astronomers No more start. 

Catalogues Qot as a clue. 

Elegant Neat leg. 

Impatient ....Tim in a pet. 

Immediately I met my Deli*. 

Masquerade Queen as mad. 

Matrimony Into niy arm. 

Melodrama Made moral. 

Midshipman Mind his map. 

Old England ..Golden land. 

Parishioners I hire parsona. 

Parliament Partial me». 

Penitentiary Nay I repent. 

Presbyterians Best in prayer. 

Radical Reform Rare mad frolM 

Revolution To love ruin. 

Sir Robert Peel Terrible poser. 

Sweetheart There we 8at. 

Telegraphs .Great helpt. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



393 



ENIOIIAS are compositions of a 
difierent character, based upon ideas, 
rather than upon words, and frequently 
constructed so as to mislead, and to 
surprise when the solution is made 
known. Enigmas may be founded 
upon simple catches, like Conundrums, 
in which form they are usually called 
Riddles, such as — 

" Though you get me on foot, 
I shall be on my head." 

The Answer is, A nail in a shoe. 
The celebrated Enigma on the letter H, 
by Lord Byron, is an admirable speci- 
men of what may be rendered in the 
form of an Enigma. 

Rebuses are a class of Enigma gen- 
erally formed by the first, sometimes 
the first and last, letters of words, or 
of transpositions of letters, or additions 
to w^ords. Dr. Johnson, however, rep- 
resents Rebus to be a word represented 
by a picture. And putting the Doctor's 
definition and our own explanation to- 
gether, the reader may glean a good 
conception of the nature of the Rebus. 
Example : 

The father of the Grecian Jove; 

A little boy who 's blind; 
The foremost land in all the world; 

The mother of mankind ; 
A poet whose love-sonnets are 

Still very much admired; — 
The initial letters will declare 

A blessing to the tired. 

Answer — ^Skturn; Zove; J5^ngland; 
^ve ; jPlutarch. The initials form sleep. 

PUZZLES vary much. One of the 
Bimplest that we know is this : 

Take away half of thirteen and let eight remain. 

Write XIII on a slate, or on a piece of paper — 
rub out the lower half of the figui'es, and VIII 
will remain. 

Laws of Chess. — The rules given 
below are based upon the code pub- 
lished in " Walker's Art of Chess 
Play." The word piece frequently in- 
' eludes the pawn. 

If the board or pieces be improperly 
placed, or are deficient in number (ex- 
cept in the case of odds), the game 
must be recommenced, if the error is 
discovered before the fourth move on 
each side (the eighth move of the 



game). If not discovered before this 
stage, the game must proceed. 

If a player give odds, and yet omit 
to remove the odds from the board at 
the commencement, he may recom- 
mence the game, and remove the odds 
given, provided he discover his error 
before playing his fourth move. But 
if he has made his fourth move, the 
game must be played out ; and should 
the player who agreed to give the odds 
win the game, it shall nevertheless be 
considered drawn. 

When parties play even, they draw 
lots for the first move of the first game. 
The first move is afterwards taken 
alternately throughout the sitting, ex- 
cept when a game is drawn, when he 
who had the first move in that game 
still claims it, a drawn game being of 
no account. He who gains the move 
has also the choice of color. 

Each player uses the same color 
throughout the sitting. When a match 
is made for a given number of games, 
the move passes alternately throughout 
the match. A player giving odds has 
the choice of men, and takes the move 
in every game, unless agreed to the 
contrary. 

A player who gives the odds of a 
piece, may give it each game from the 
king's or queen's side, at his option. 
If he gives the odds of a pawn, he 
must give the king's bishop's pawn, 
unless otherwise stipulated. The 
player who receives the odds of a cer- 
tain number of moves at the commence- 
ment, must not with those moves cross 
from his own half of the board. 

If a player, in his turn to play, 
touch one of his men, he must move 
that piece, if it can legally move, un- 
less, when he first touches it, he says 
aloud, " J'adoube." No penalty is 
attached to touching a piece, unless it 
is your turn to move. 

If the player touch his king, with 
the intention of moving him, and then 
find that he cannot do so without 
placing the king in check, no penalty 
can be inflicted on his replacing hia 
king and moving elsewhere. [Other- 
wise ? j If the player should touch a 



394 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



man which cannot be moved without 
placing his king in check, he must 
move his king instead. 

If a player about to move touch one 
of his adversary's men, without saying 
" J'adoube " when he first touches it, 
he must take that piece, if it can be 
lawfully taken. Should it not be 
taken, he must, as a penalty, move his 
king ; but should the king be unable 
to play without going into check, no 
penalty can be enforced. It is not al- 
lowed to castle upon a compulsory 
move of the king. 

While you hold your piece you may 
move it anywhere allowed by the rules ; 
but when you quit your hold the move 
is completed, and must be abided by. 

If you inadvertently move one of 
your adversary's pieces instead of your 
own, he may compel you to take the 
piece you have touched, should it be 
en prise ; or to replace it and move 
you) king, or to leave it on the square 
to which you have moved it, and forego 
any other move at that time. Should 
you capture one of the adverse pieces 
with another, instead of one of your 
own, the capture holds good, if your 
oi)ponent so decides. 

If the player takes a piece through 
a false move, his adversary may com- 
pel him to take such piece with one 
that can lawfully take it; or to move 
the pioe that has been touched, if 
such move does not expose the king 
to check ; or he may be directed to 
move his king. 

If you take one of your own men, 
instead of one of your adversary's, you 
may be compelled to move one of the 
two pieces touched, at the option of 
your opponent. Mr. Walker thinks 
that the penalty should be to lose the 
man you have improperly taken off. 

An opponent has the option of pun- 
ishing a false move, by claiming the 
false move as your move, by compel- 
ling you to move the piece touched, as 
you may think fit, or to replace the 
piece and move your king. 

The king must never be exposed to 
check by any penalty enforced. 

If you move twice running, you 



may be compelled to abide by botk 
moves, or to retract the second. 

Unlimited time is allowed for the 
moves [unless otherwise agreed]. If 
one player insists upon the postpone- 
ment of the termination of a game, 
against the will of his opponent, the 
game is forfeited by him who will not 
play on. 

When a pawn is moved two squares, 
it is liable to be taken, en passant, by 
a pawn, but not by a piece. 

If you touch both king and rook, 
intending to castle, you must move one 
of the two pieces, at the option of your 
adversary ; or he may compel you to 
complete the castling. You cannot 
take a piece and castle at the same 
time; nor does the rook check as it 
passes to its new position ; but it may 
check on its position after castling. 

False castling is liable to the same 
penalties as a false move. 

When a player gives the odds of a 
rook, he does not relinquish the right 
of castling on the side from which the 
rook has been taken, all other condi- 
tions being lawful, as if the rook were 
in its place. 

When you give check you must say 
so aloud. If check is not called on 
either side, but subsequently discov- 
ered, you must endeavor to recall all 
the moves back to the period when the 
check first occurred. 

You are not compelled to cry check 
when you attack the queen. 

If you cry check, and afterwards 
alter your determination, you are not 
compelled to abide by the intention, 
provided you have not touched the 
piece. 

When a pawn reaches the opposite 
side of the board it may be replaced 
by any piece, at the option of the 
owner, and irrespective of the piece* 
already owned by him. 

Stall mate is a drawn game. 

Drawn games count for nothing; 
and he who moved first in the drawn 
game, moves first in the following. 

If you declare to win a game, or 
position, and only draw it, you are 
accounted the loser. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS, 



395 



Wlieii you have either of the fol- 
lowing advantages of force, you are 
compelled to give check-mate in fifty 
moves, or the game is considered 
drawn : 

King and queen against king. 

King and rook against king. 

King and two bishops against king. 

King, bishop, and knight against 
king. 

King and queen against king and 
rook. 

King and rook against king and 
minor piece. 

King and pawn against king. 

King and two pawns against king 
and pawn. 

If you move after your adversary 
has made a false move, or committed 
other irregularity, you cannot claim 
the penalties. 

Spectators are forbidden to make 
remarks. 

Disputes to be referred to a third 
party. 

Draughts or Checkers.— The laws 
for regulating the game of draughts 
are as follows : 

Each player takes the first move 
alternately, whether the last game be 
won or drawn. 

Any action which prevents the 
adversary from having a full view of 
the men is not allowed. 

The player who touches a man must 
play him. 

In case of standing the huff", which 
means omitting to take a man when 
an opportunity for so doing occurred, 
the other party may either take the 
man, or insist upon his man, which 
has been so omitted by his adversary, 
being taken. 

If either party, when it is his turn 
to move, hesitate above three minutes, 
the other may call upon him to play ; 
and if, after that, he delay above five 
minutes longer, then he loses the 
game. 

In the losing game, the player can 
insist upon his adversary taking all 
the men, in case opportunities should 
present themselves tor their being so 
taken. 



To prevent unnecessary delay, if 
one color have no pieces, but two 
kings on the board, and the other no 
piece, but one king, the latter can call 
upon the former to win the game in 
twenty moves ; if he does not finish it 
within that number of moves, the 
game to be relinquished as drawn. 

If there are three kings to two on 
the board, the subsequent moves are 
not to exceed forty. 

WHIST. — ( Upon the principles of 
Hoyle's games.) — Great silence and 
attention must be observed by the play- 
ers. Four persons cut for partners ; the 
two highest are against the two lowest. 
The partners sit opposite to each other, 
and the person who cuts the lowest 
card is entitled to the deal. The ace is 
the lowest in cutting. 

Shuffling. — Each person has a 
right to shuffle the cards before the 
deal ; but it is usual for the elder hand 
only, and the dealer after. 

Cutting. — The pack is then cut by 
the right hand adversary ; and the 
dealer distributes the cards, one by one, 
to each of the players, beginning with 
the person who sits on his left hand, 
until he conies to the last card, which 
he turns up, being the trump, and 
leaves on the table till the first trick 
is played. 

First Play. — The person on the 
left-hand side of the dealer is called the 
elder, and plays first; whoever wins 
the trick becomes elder hand, and plays 
again ; and so on, till all the cards are 
played out. 

Mistakes. — No intimations, or signs 
of any kind, during the play of the 
cards, are permitted between the part- 
ners. The mistake of one party is the 
game of the adversary, except in a re- 
voke, when the partners may inquire 
if he has any of the suit in his hand. 

Collecting Tricks. — The tricks 
belonging to each party should be 
turned and collected by the respective 
partners of whoever wins the first trick 
in every hand. All above six tricks 
reckon towards the game. 

Honors. — The ace, king, queen, and 
knave of trumps are called honors ; and 



396 



YOD ask! — I'll tell! 



when either of the partners have three 
separately, or between them, they count 
two points towards the game ; and in 
case they have four honors, they count 
four points. 

Game. — The game consists of ten 
points. 

Terms Used in Whist. — Finessing, 
is the attempt to gain an advantage ; 
thus : — If you have the best and 
third best card of the suit led, you put 
on the third best, and run the risk of 
your adversary having the second best; 
if he has it not, which is two to one 
against him, you are then certain of 
gaining a trick. 

Forcing, is playing the suit of which 
your partner or adversary has not any, 
and which he must trump in order to 
win. 

Long Trump, means the having one 
or more trumps in your hand when all 
the rest are out. 

Loose Card, means a card in hand of 
no value, and the most proper to throw 
away. 

Points. — Ten make the game ; as 
many as are gained by tricks or hon- 
ors, so many points are set up to the 
score of the game. 

Quart, is four successive cards in any 
suit. 

Quart Major, is a sequence of ace, 
king, queen, and knave. 

Quint, is five successive cards in any 
suit. 

Quint Major is a sequence of ace, 
king, queen, knave, and ten. 

See-haw is when each partner turns 
a suit, and when they play those suits 
to each other for that purpose. 

Score is the number of points set 
up. The following is the most ap- 
proved method of scoring: 
123456789 
00 000 
00 000 0000 00 000 



Slam is when either party win every 
trick. 

Tenace is possessing the first and 
third best cards, and being the last 
player; you consequently catch the 
adversary when that suit is played : 



as, for instance, in case you have ace 
and queen of any suit, and your ad- 
versary leads that suit, you must win 
two tricks, by having the best and 
third best of the suit played, and 
being the last player. 

Tierce is three successive cards in 
any suit. 

Tierce Major is a sequence of ace, 
king, and queen. 

Rules for Playing Whist. — Lead 
from your strong stftt, and be cau- 
tious how you change suits ; and keep a 
commanding card to bring it in again. 

Lead through the strong suit and up 
to the weak ; but not in trumps un- 
less very strong in them. 

Lead the highest of a sequence; but 
if you have a quart or cinque to a 
king, lead the lowest. 

Lead through an honor, particularly 
if the game is much against you. 

Lead your best trump, if the adver- 
saries be eight, and you have no 
honor; but not if you have four 
trumps, unless you have a sequence. 

Lead a trump if you have four or 
five, or a strong hand ; but not if weak. 

Having ace, king, and two or three 
small cards, lead ace and king if weak 
in trumps, but a small one if strong in 
them. 

If you have the last trump, with 
some winning cards, and one losing 
card only, lead the losing card. 

Return your partner's lead, not the 
adversaries' ; and if you have only 
three originally, play the best; but 
you need not return it immediately, 
when you win with a king, queen, or 
knave, and have only small ones, or 
when you hold a good sequence, have 
a strong suit, or have five trumps. 

Do not lead from ace queen, or ace 
knave. 

Do not lead an ace, unless you have 
a king. 

Do not lead a thirteenth card, un- 
less trumps be out. 

Do not trump a thirteenth card, 
unless you be last player, or want the 
lead. 

Keep a small card to return your 
partner's lead. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



397 



Be cautious in trumping a card 
when strong in trumps, particularly if 
you have a strong suit. 

Having only a few small trumps, 
make them when you can. 

If your partner refuses to trump a 
suit, of which he knows you have not 
the best, lead your best trump. 

When you hold all the remaining 
trumps, play one, and then try to put 
the lead in your partner's hand. 

Remember how many of each suit 
are out, and what is the best card left 
in each hand. 

Never force your partner if you are 
weak in trumps, unless you have a re- 
nounce, or want the odd trick. 

When playing for the odd trick, be 
cautious of trumping out, especially 
if your partner be likely to trump a 
suit ; and make all the tricks you can 
early, and avoid finessing. 

If you take a trick, and have a se- 
/^jeuce, win it with the lowest. 

Laws of Whist. — Dealing. — If 
a card be turned up in dealing, the ad- 
verse party may call a new deal, unless 
they have been the cause; then the 
dealer has the option. 

If a card be faced in the deal, the 
dealer must deal again, unless it be the 
last deal 

If any one play with twelve cards, 
and the rest have thirteen, the deal to 
stand good, and the player to be 

Eunished for each revoke ; but if any 
ave fourteen cards, the deal is lost. 

The dealer to leave the trump card 
on the table till his turn to play ; after 
which none may ask what card was 
turned up, only what is trumps. 

No person may take up the cards 
while deaJing; if the dealer in that 
case should miss the deal, to deal again, 
unless his partner's fault ; and if a card 
be turned up in dealing, no new deal, 
unless the partner's fault. 

If the dealer put the trump card on 
the rest, with face downwards, he is to 
lose the deal. 

Playing out of Turn. — If any 
person play out of his turn, the adver- 
sary may call the card played at any 
time, if he do not make him revoke ; 



or if either of the adverse party be to 
lead, may desire his partner to name 
the suit, which must be played. 

If a person supposes he has won the 
trick, and leads again before his part- 
ner has played, the adversary may 
oblige his partner to win it, if he can. 

If a person lead, and his partner 
play before his turn, the adversary's 
partner may do the same. 

If the ace, or any other card of a suit, 
be led, and any person play out of turn, 
whether his partner have any of the 
suit led or not, he is neither to trump 
it nor win it, provided he do not re- 
voke. 

Revoking. — If a revoke happen to 
be made, the adversary may add three 
to their score, or take three tricks from 
them, or take down three from their 
score ; and, if up, must remain at nine. 

If any person revoke, and, before 
the cards be turned, discover it, the ad- 
versary may cause the highest or lowest 
of the suit led, or call the card then 
played at any time, if it do not cause 
a revoke. 

No revoke to be claimed till the 
trick be turned and quitted, or the 
party who revoked, or his partner, 
have played again. 

If any person claim a revoke, the 
adverse party are not to mix their 
cards, upon forfeiting the revoke. 

No revoke can be claimed after the 
cards are cut for a new deal. 

Calling Honors. — If any perso» 
call, except at the point of eight, th€ 
adverse party may consult, and have 
new deal. 

After the trump card is turned up 
no person may remind his partner to 
call, on penalty of losing one point. 

If the trump card be turned up, no 
honors can be set up unless before 
claimed ; and scoring honors, not 
having them, to be scored against 
them. 

If any person call at eight, and be 
answered, and the opposite parties 
have thrown down their cards, and it 
appear they have not their honors, 
they may consult, ijid have a new deal 
or not. 



S9« 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



If any person answer without an 
honor, the adversaries may consult, 
and stand the deal or not. 

If any person call at eight, after he 
has played, the adversaries may call a 
new deal. 

Separating and Showing the 
Cards. — If any person separate a card 
from the rest, the adverse party may 
call it if he name it; but if he call a 
wrong card, he or his partner are 
liable, for once, to have the highest or 
lowest card called in any suit led 
during that deal. 

If any person throw his cards on the 
table, supposing the game lost, he may 
not take them up, and the adversaries 
may call them provided he do not revoke. 

If any person be sure of winning 
every trick in his hand, he may show 
his cards, but is liable to have them 
called. 

Omitting to Play to a Trick.— If 
any person omit to play to a trick, 
and it appear he has one card more 
than the rest, it shall be at the option 
of the adversary to have a new deal. 

Respecting who Played a Par- 
ticular Card. — Each person ought 
to lay his card before him ; and if either 
of the adversaries mix their cards with 
his, his partner may demand each 
person to lay his card before him, but 
not to inquire who played any particu- 
lar card. 

These laws are agreed to by the best 
judges. 

Maxims for WMst. — Leader. — 
Begin with the suit of which you have 
most in number ; for, when the trumps 
are out, you will probably make 
several tricks by it. 

If you hold equal numbers in different 
suits, begin with the strongest, because 
it is the least liable to injure your 
partner. 

Sequences are always eligible leads, 
as supporting your partner without in- 
juring your own hand. 

Lead from a king or queen, rather 
than from an ace ; for since the adver- 
saries will lead from those suits which 
vou do not, your ace will do them mos'^/ 
barm 



Lead from a king rather than a queen, 
and from a queen rather than from a 
knave ; for the stronger the suit, the 
less is your partner endangered. 

Lead not from ace queen, or ace 
knave, till necessary ; for, if that suit 
be led by the adversaries, you have a 
good chance of making two tricks in it. 

In all sequences to a queen, knave, 
or ten, begin with the hignest, because 
it will frequently distress your left-hand 
adversary. 

Having ace, king, and knave, lead 
the king ; for, if strong in trumps, you 
may wait the return of this suit, and 
finesse the knave. 

Having ace, queen, and one small 
card, lead the small one; for, by this 
lead, your partner has a chance to make 
the knave. 

Having ace, king, and two or three 
small cards, play ace and king if weak, 
but a small card if strong in trumps: 
you may give your partner the chance 
of making the first trick. 

Having king, queen, and one small 
card, play the small one ; for your part- 
ner has an equal chance to win, and you 
need not fear to make king or queen. 

Having king, queen, and two or three 
small cards, lead a small card if stiong, 
and the king if weak in trumps; for 
strength in trumps entitles you to play 
a backward game, and give your part- 
ner a chance of winning the first trick; 
but if weak in trumps, lead the king or 
queen, to secure a trick in that suit. 

Having an ace, with four small cards, 
and no other good suit, play a small 
card if strong in trumps, and the ace 
if weak ; for strength in trumps may 
enable you to make one or two of the 
small cards, although your partner can- 
not support the lead. 

Having king, knave, and ten, lead 
the ten ; for, if your partner hold the 
ace, you have a good chance to make 
three tricks, whether he pass the ten 
or not. 

Having king, queen, and ten, lead 
the king; for, if it fail, by putting on 
the ten, upon the return of that suit 
from your partner, you have a chance 
of making two tricks. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



399 



Having queen, knave, and nine, lead 
the queen ; for, upon the return of that 
Buit from your partner, by putting on 
the nine, you will, probably, make the 
knave. 

Second Hand. — Having ace, king, 
and small ones, play a small card if 
strong in trumps, but the king if weak 
in them ; for, otherwise, your ace or 
king might be trumped in the latter 
case, and no hazards should be run 
with few trumps but in critical cases. 

Having ace, queen, and small cards, 
play a small one, for, upon the return 
of that suit, you will, probably, make 
two tricks. 

Having ace, knave, and small cards, 
play a small one, for, upon the return 
of the suit, you will, perhaps, make two 
tricks. 

Having ace, ten, or nine, with small 
cards, play a small one, for, by this 
method, you have a chance of making 
two tricks in the suit. 

Having king, queen, ten, and small 
cards, play the queen ; for, by playing 
the ten upon the return of the suit, you 
will, probably, make two tricks in it. 

Having king, queen, and small cards, 
play a small card if strong in trumps, 
but the queen if weak in them ; for 
strength in trumps warrants playing a 
backward game, and it is always ad- 
vantageous to keep back your adver- 
saries' suit. 

If you hold a sequence to your 
highest card in the suit, play the 
lowest of it, for, by this means, your 
partner will be informed of your 
strength. 

Having queen, knave, and small 
ones, play the knave, because you will, 
probably, secure a trick. 

Having queen, ten, and small ones, 
play a small one, for your partner has 
an equal chance to win. 

Having either ace, king, queen, or 
knave, with small cards, play a small 
one, for your partner has an equal 
chance to win the trick. 

Having either ace, king, queen, or 
knave, with one small card only, play 
the small one, for, otherwise, your ad- 
versary will finesse upon you. 



If a queen be led, and you hold the 
king, put that on, for if your partner 
hold the ace, you do no harm ; and, if 
the king be taken, the adversaries have 
played two honors to one. 

If a king be led, and you hold ace, 
knave, and small ones, play the ace, for 
it cannot do the adversary a greater 
injury. 

Third Hand. — Having ace and 
king, play the ace and return the king, 
because you should not keep the com- 
mand of your partner's strong suit. 

Having ace and queen, play the ace, 
and return the queen; for, although 
it may prove better in some cases to 
put on the queen, yet, in general, 
your partner is best supported by this 
method. 

Having ace and knave, play the ace 
and return the knave, in order to 
strengthen your partner's hand. 

Having king and knave, play the 
king ; and, if it win, return the knave, 
for same reason as preceding paragraph. 

Always play the best when your 
partner plays a small card, as it best 
supports your partner. 

If you hold the ace and one small 
card only, and your partner lead the 
king, put on the ace, and return the 
small one; for, otherwise, your ace 
will be an obstruction to his suit. 

If you hold the king and one small 
card only, and your partner lead the 
ace, if the trumps be out, play the 
king; for, by putting on the king, 
there will be no obstruction to the suit. 

Fourth Hand. — If a king be led, 
and you hold ace, knave, and a small 
card, play the small one ; for, supposing 
the queen to follow, you probably make 
both ace and knave. 

When the third hand is weak in his 
partner's lead, you may often return 
that suit to great advantage ; but this 
rule must not be applied to trumps, 
unless you are very strong indeed. 

Cases in which you should Re- 
turn YOUR Partner's Lead Imme- 
diately. — When you win with the 
ace and can return an honor, for that 
will greatly strengthen his hand. 

When he leads a trump, in which 



400 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



case return the best remaining in your 
hand (unless you held four originally), 
except the lead be through an honor. 

When your partner has trumped 
out ; for then it is evident he wants to 
make his great suit. 

When you have no good card in 
any other suit ; for then you entirely 
depend on your partner. 

Cases in which you should not 
Return your Partner's Lead Im- 
mediately. — If you win with the 
king, queen, or knave, and have only 
small cards left; for the return of a 
small card will more distress than 
strengthen your partner. 

If you hold a good sequence; for 
then you may show a strong suit, and 
not injure his hand. 

If you have a strong suit ; because 
leading from a strong suit directs your 
partner, and cannot injure him. 

If you have a good hand ; for, in 
ibis case, you ought to consult your 
own hand. 

If you hold five trumps; for then 
you are warranted to play trumps, if 
you think it right. 

Leading Trumps. — Lead trumps 
from a strong hand, but never from a 
weak one, by which means you will 
secure your good cards from being 
trumped. 

Trump not out with a bad hand, 
although you hold five small trumps ; 
for, since your cards are bad, it is only 
trumping for the adversaries' good 
ones. 

Having ace, king, knave, and three 
small trumps, play ace and king ; for 
the probability of the queen's falling 
is in your favor. 

Having ace, king, knave, and one 
or two small trumps, play the king, 
and wait the return from your partner 
to put on the knave, in order to win 
the queen ; but, if you particularly 
wish the trumps out, play two rounds, 
and then your strong suit. 

Having ace, king, and two or three 
small trumps, lead a small one ; this is 
CO let your partner win the first trick ; 
but if you nave good reason for get- 
ting out the trumps, play three rounds. 



or play ace and king, and then pro 
ceed with your strong suit. 

If your adversaries be eight, and 
you do not hold an honor, throw off 
your best trump ; for, if your partner 
has not two honors, you have lost the 
game ; and if he holds two honors, it 
is most advantageous to lead a trump. 

Having ace, queen, knave, and 
small trumps, play the knave ; for, by 
this means, the king only can make 
against you. 

Having ace, queen, ten, and one or 
two small trumps, lead a small one, 
for it will give your partner a chance 
to win the trick, and keep the com- 
mand in your own hand. 

Having king, queen, ten, and small 
trumps, lead the king; for if the king 
be lost, upon the return of trumps you 
may finesse the ten. 

Having king, knave, ten, and small 
ones, lead the knave, because it will 
prevent the adversaries from making 
a small trump. 

Having queen, knave, nine, and 
small trumps, lead the queen; for, if 
your partner hold the ace, you have a 
good chance of making the whole suit. 

Having queen, knave, and two or 
three small trumps, lead the queen, 
for the reason just mentioned. 

Having knave, ten, eight, and small 
trumps, lead the knave ; for, on the 
return of trumps, you probably may 
finesse the eight to advantage. 

Having knave, ten, and three small 
trumps, lead the knave, because it will 
most distress your adversaries, unless 
two honors are held on your right 
hand; the odds against which are 
about three to one. 

Having only small trumps, play the 
highest; by which you will support 
your partner all you can. 

Having a sequence, begin with the 
highest ; by this means, your partner 
is best instructed how to play his hand, 
and cannot possibly be injured. 

If any honor be turned up on your 
left, and the game much against you, 
lead a trump the first opportunity ; for, 
your game being desperately bad, thii 
method is the most likely to retrieve it; 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



401 



In all other cases it is dangerous 
leading through an honor, unless you 
be strong in trumps, or have a good 
hand; because all the advantage of 
trumping through an honor lies in 
your partner's finessing. 

Supposing it hereafter proper to lead 
trumps, when an honor is turned up 
on your left, you, holding only one 
honor, with a small trump, play the 
honor, and next the small one; be- 
cause it will greatly strengthen your 
partner's hand, and cannot hurt your 
own. 

If an honor be turned up on the left, 
and you hold a sequence, lead the high- 
est of it, because it will prevent the 
last hand from injuring your partner. 

If a queen be turned up on the left, 
and you hold ace, king, and a small 
one, lead the small trump, because you 
will have a chance of getting the queen. 

If a queen be turned up on the left, 
and you hold a knave, with small ones, 
lead the knave ; for the knave cannot 
be of service, as the queen is on your 
left. 

If an honor be turned up by your 
partner, and you are strong in trumps, 
lead a small one ; but if weak in them, 
lead the best you have; by this play 
the weakest hand will support the 
strongest. 

If an ace be turned up on the right, 
you holding king, queen, and knave, 
lead the knave ; a secure lead. 

If an ace be turned up on the right, 
and you hold king, queen, and ten, 
lead the king, and upon the return of 
trumps play the ten ; for, by this 
means, you show a great strength to 
your partner, and will, probably, make 
two tricks in them. 

If a king be turned up on the right, 
and you hold queen, knave, and nine, 
lead knave, and, upon the return of 
trumps, play the nine, because it may 
prevent the ten from making. 

If a king be turned up on your right, 
and you hold knave, ten, and nine, 
lead the nine, and, upon the return of 
trumps, play the ten; because this 
method will best disclose your strength 
in trumps. 

26 



If a queen be turned up on the right, 
and you hold ace, king, and knave, 
lead the king, and, upon the return of 
trumps, play the knave, because you 
are then certain to make the knave. 

If a queen be turned up on the right, 
and you hold ace, king, and small 
ones, lead the king ; and, upon the re- 
turn of trumps, you may finesse, unless 
the queen falls, for, otherwise, the 
queen will make a trick. 

If a knave be turned up on the 
right, and you hold king, queen, and 
ten, lead the queen, and, upon the 
return of trumps, play the ten ; for, by 
this means, you will make the ten. 

If a knave be turned up on the 
right, and you hold king, queen, and 
small ones, lead the king ; and, if that 
come home, play a small one, for it is 
probable your partner holds the ace. 

If a knave be turned up on the 
right, and you liold king and ten or 
queen and ten, with two small cards, 
lead a small one ; and, upon the return 
of trumps, play the ten, for it is five to 
four that your partner holds one honor. 

Whek you Turn Up an Honor in 
Whist. — If you turn up an ace, and 
hold only one small trump with it, if 
either adversary lead the king, put on 
the ace. 

But, if you turn up an ace, and hold 
two or three small trumps with it, and 
either adversary lead the king, put on 
a small one ; for, if you play the ace, 
you give up the command in trumps. 

If you turn up the king, and hold 
only one small trump with it, and your 
right-hand adversary lead a trump, 
play the king. 

If you turn up a king, and hold two 
or three small trumps with it, if your 
right-hand adversary lead a trump, 
play a small one. 

If you turn up a queen or a knave, 
and hold, besides, only small trumps, 
if your right-hand adversary lead a 
trump, put on a small one. 

If you hold a sequence to the honor 
turned up, play it last. 

Playing for the Odd Trick. — 
Be cautious of trumping out, notwith- 
standing you have a good hand. 



402 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



Never trump out, if your partner 
appears likely to trump a suit. 

If you are moderately strong in 
trumps, force your partner, for by this 
you probably make a trick. 

Make your tricks early, and be cau- 
tious of finessing. 

If you hold a single card of any suit, 
»nd only two or three small trumps, 
.ead the single card. 

Calculations of Whist. — It is 
about five to four that your partner 
holds one card out of any two. 

It is about five to two that he holds 
one card out of three. 

It is about four to one that he holds 
one card out of any four. 

It is two to one that he does not 
hold a certain card. 

It is about three to one that he does 
not hold two cards out of any three. 

It is about three to two that he does 
not hold two cards out of any four. 

CRIBBAGE.— The game of cribbage 
differs from all other games by its 
immense variety of chances. It is 
reckoned useful to young people in the 
science of calculation. It is played 
with the whole pack of cards, gener- 
ally by two persons, and sometimes by 
four. There are also five different 
modes of playing — that is, with five, 
six, or eight cards ; but the games are 
principally those with five and six 
cards. The rules vary a little in dif- 
ferent companies, but the following 
are those most generally observed : 

Terms Used in Cribbage. — Qrib. 
— The crib is composed of the cards 
thrown away by each party, and the 
dealer is entitled to score whatever 
points are made by them. 

Pairs are two similar cards, as two 
aces or two kings. Whether in hand 
o- playing they reckon for two points. 

Pairs-Royal are three similar cards, 
and reckon for six points, whether in 
hand or playing. 

Dottble Pairs-Royal are four similar 
cards, and reckon for twelve points, 
whether in hand or playing. The 
points gained by pairs, pairs-royal, 
and double pairs-royal, in playing, are 
thus effected : — Your adversary having 



played a seven and you another, con- 
stitutes a pair, and entitles you to 
score two points : your antagonist then 
playing a third seven, makes a pair- 
royal, and he marks six ; and your 
playing a fourth is a double pair- 
royal, and entitles you to twelve 
points. 

Fifteens. — Every fifteen reckons for 
two points, whether in hand or play- 
ing. In hand they are formed either 
by two cards, such as a five and any 
tenth card, a six and a nine, a seven 
and an eight, or by three cards, as a 
two, a five, and an eight, etc. And 
in playing thus, if such cards are 
played as make together fifteen, the 
two points are to be scored towards 
the game. 

Sequences are three or four or more 
successive cards, and reckon for an 
equal number of points either in hand 
or play. In playing a sequence, it is of 
no consequence which card is thrown 
down first; as thus: — your adversary 
playing an ace, you a five, he a three, 
you a two, then he a four, he counts 
five for the sequence. 

Flush. — When the cards are all of 
one suit, they reckon for as many 
points as there are cards. For a flush 
in the crib, the card turned up must 
be of the same suit as those put out in 
the crib. 

Noddy. — The knave of the suit 
turned up reckons for one point; if a 
knave be turned up, the dealer is to 
mark two ; but it cannot be reckoned 
again; and when played it does not 
score anything. 

End Hole. — The point scored by the 
last player, if he makes under thirty- 
one ; if he makes thirty-one exactly, 
he is to mark two. To obtain either 
of these is considered a great advan- 
tage. 

Last. — Three points taken at the 
commencement of the game of five- 
card cribbage by the non-dealer. 

Rules of Cribbage. — The adverse 
parties cut the cards to determine who 
shall be dealer ; the lowest card has it. 
The ace is the lowest. 

In dealing, the dealer may discover 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



403 



tis own cards, but not those of his ad- 
versary — who may mark two, and call 
a fresh deal. 

Should too many cards be dealt to 
either, the non-dealer may score two, 
and demand another deal, if the error 
be detected previous to taking up the 
cards ; if he do not wish a new deal, 
the extra cards must be drawn away. 
When any player has more than the 
proper number of cards in hand, the 
opponent may score four,, and call a 
new deal. 

If any player meddle with the pack 
after dealing, till the period of cutting 
it for the turn-up card, then his oppo- 
nent may score two points. 

If any player take more than he is 
entitled to, the other party should not 
only put him back as many points as 
are overscored, but likewise take the 
game extra number for his own game. 
Should either party even meddle 
with his own pegs unnecessarily, the 
opponent may score two points; and 
if any one take out his front peg, he 
must place the same back behind the 
other. If any be misplaced by acci- 
dent, a bystander may replace the 
same, according to the best of his 
judgment; but he should never other- 
wise interfere. 

If any player neglect to set up what 
he is entitled to, the adversary is al- 
lowed to take the points so omitted. 

Each player may place his own cards, 
when done with, upon the pack. 

In five-card cribbage, the cards are 
to be deal t one by one ; but when played 
with six cards, then it is customary to 
give three, and if with eight cards, four 
at a time. 

The non-dealer, at the commence- 
ment of the game, in five-card crib- 
bage, scores three points, called three 
for last; but in six and eight-card 
cribbage this is not to be done. 

In what is called the Bath game, 
they reckon flushes upon the board; 
that is, when three cards of the same 
suit are played successively, the party 
playing the third scores three points; 
if the adversary play a fourth of the 
vame suit, then he is to score four, and 



so on for four, five, six, or as long as 
the same suit continues to be played in 
uninterrupted succession, and that the 
whole number of pips do not reckon 
thirty-one. 

Five-Card Cribbage. — It is unne- 
cessary to describe cribbage - boards ; 
the sixty-one points or holes marked 
thereon make the game. We have be- 
fore said that the party cutting the 
lowest card deals ; after which, each 
player is first to lay out two of the five 
cards for the crib, which always be- 
longs to the dealer; next, the adver- 
sary is to cut the remainder of the pack, 
and the dealer to turn up and lay 
upon the crib the uppermost card, for 
which, if a knave, he is to mark two 
points. The card' turned up is to be 
reckoned by both parties, whether in 
showing their hands or crib. After 
laying out and cutting as above men- 
tioned, the eldest hand is to play a 
card, which the other should endeavor 
to pair, or find one, the pips of which, 
reckoned with the first, will make fif- 
teen ; then the non-dealer must play 
another card, and try to make a pair, 
pair-royal, sequence, flush (where al- 
lowed of), or fifteen, provided the 
cards already played have not exceeded 
that number; and so on alternately, 
until the pips on the cards played 
make thirty-one, or the nearest possi- 
ble number under that. 

Counting for Game. — When the 
party, whose turn it may be to play, 
cannot produce a card that will make 
thirty-one, or come under that num- 
ber, he is then to say " Go " to his an- 
tagonist, who, thereupon, will be en- 
titled to score one, or must play any 
card or cards he may have that will 
make thirty-one, or under ; and if he 
can make exactly thirty-one, he is to 
take two points; if not, one: the last 
player has often opportunity this way 
to make pairs or sequences. Such cards 
as remain after this are not to be played ; 
but each party having, during the play, 
scored his points gained, in the manner 
before directed, must proceed, the non- 
dealer first to count and take for hia 
hand, then the dealer for his hand, 



404 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



and also for his crib, reckoning the 
cards every way they can possibly 
be varied, and always including the 
turned-up card. 

Points. 

For every fifteen 2 

Pair, or two of a sort 2 

Pair-royal, or three of a sort... 6 
Double pair-royal, or four ditto 12 
Knave of the turned-up suit... 1 
Sequences and flushes,whatever num- 
ber. 

Maxims for Laying out the Crib 
Cards. — It is always requisite, in lay- 
ing out cards for the crib, that every 
player should consider not only his 
own hand, but also to whom the crib 
belongs, as well as the state of the 
game; for what might be proper in 
one situation would be highly impru- 
dent in another. When any player 
possesses a pair-royal, it is generally 
advisable to lay out the other cards for 
crib, unless it belongs to the adversary, 
and they consist of two fives, a deuce, 
and a trois, five and six, seven and 
eight, five and any other tenth card, or 
that the game be almost finished. A 
player, when he does not thereby ma- 
terially injure his hand, should for his 
own crib lay out close cards, in hope 
of making a sequence ; or two of a suit, 
in expectation of a flush ; or any that 
of themselves amount to fifteen, or such 
as reckoned with others will make that 
number, except when the antagonist 
be nearly up, and it may be expedient 
to keep such cards as probably may 
prevent him from gaining at play. 
The opposite method should be pur- 
sued in respect to the adversary's crib, 
which each person should endeavor to 
balk, by laying out those cards that 
are not likely to prove to advantage, 
unless at such a stage of the game 
when it may be of consequence to 
keep in hand cards likely to tell in 
play, or when the non-dealer would be 
either out by his hand, or has reason 
for judging the crib of little moment. 
A king is the best card to balk a crib, 
as none can form a sequence beyond 
it, except in some companies, where 
king, queen, ace, are allowed as a se- 



quence; and either a king or queen, 
with an ace, six, seven, eight, or nine, 
are good ones to put out. Low cards 
are generally the most likely to gain 
at play; the flushes and sequences, 
particularly if the latter be also flushes, 
constitute the most eligible hands, aa 
thereby the player will often be enabled 
either to assist his own crib, or balk 
that of the opponent, to whom a knave 
should never be given, if with pro- 
priety it can be retained. 

Three or Four-Hand Cribbage 
differs only from the preceding, as the 
parties put out but one card each to 
the crib ; and when thirty-one, or the 
nearest ajiproximatiug number has 
been made, then the next eldest hand 
leads, and the players go on again in 
rotation, with any remaining cards, 
till all are played out, before they pro- 
ceed to show. For three-hand crib- 
bage triangular boards are used. 

Three-Hand Cribbage is some- 
times played, wherein one person sits 
out, not each game, but each deal, in 
rotation. In this the first dealer gen- 
erally wins. The chances in this game 
are often so great, that even between 
skilful gamesters it is possible, at 
five-card cribbage, when the adversary 
is fifty-six, for a lucky player, who 
had not previously made a single hole, 
to be more than up in two deals, his 
opponent getting no farther than sixty 
in that time ; and in four-hand crib- 
bage, a case may occur wherein none 
of the parties hold a single point in 
hand, and yet the dealer and his 
friend, with the assistance of a knave 
turned up, may make sixty-one by 
play in one deal, while the adversaries 
only get twenty-four ; and although 
this may not happen for many years, 
yet similar games may now and then 
be met with. 

Six-Card Cribbage varies from 
that played with five, as the players 
(always only two) commence on an 
e<iuality, without scoring any points 
for the last, retain four cards in hand, 
and all the cards are to be played out, 
as in three and four-hand cribbage 
with five cards. At this game it is of 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



405 



*dvantage to the last player to keep 
as close as possible, in hopes of com- 
ing in for fifteen, a sequence, or pair, 
besides the end hole, or thirty-one. 
The first dealer is reckoned to have 
some trifling advantage, and each 
player may, on the average, expect to 
make twenty-five points in every two 
deals. The first non-dealer is considered 
to have preference, when he gains ten 
or more the first hand, the dealer 
not making more than his average 
number. 

The Greatest Possible Number 
that can be gained by the show of any 
hand or crib, either in five or six-card 
cribbage, is twenty-nine; it is com- 
posed of three fives and a knave, with 
a fourth five, of the same suit as the 
knave, turned up ; this very seldom 
happens. But twenty-four is an un- 
common number, and may be formed 
of four threes and a nine, or two fours, 
one five, and two sixes ; add some 
other combinations that experience 
will point out. 

Eight-Card Cribbage is some- 
times played, but very seldom. 

Odds op the Game op Cribbage. 
— The average number estimated to be 
held from the cards in hand is rather 
more than four, and under five ; to be 
gained in play, two for the dealer, and 
one for the adversary, making in all an 
average of six throughout the game ; 
the probability of the crib is five ; so 
that each player ought to make sixteen 
in two deals ; by which it will appear 
the dealer has somewhat the ad- 
vantage, supposing the cards to run 
equal, and the players well matched. 
By attending to this calculation, any 
person may judge whether he be at 
home or not, and thereby play his 
game accordingly ; either making a 
grand push when he is behind and 
holds good cards, or endeavoring to 
balk his adversary when his hand 
proves indifferent. 
ALL-FOURS is usually played by two 
persons ; not unfrequently by four. Its 
name is derived from the four chances, 
called high, low, Jack, game, each 
making a point. A complete pack of 



cards must be provided, six of which 
are to be dealt to each party, three at a 
time ; and the next card, the thirteenth, 
is to be turned up for the trump by the 
dealer, who, if it prove a knave, is to 
score one point. The party who cuts 
the highest card is to deal first. The 
cards rank in the same manner as at 
whist, for whoever scores the first ten 
points wins. 

Laws of All-Fours.— A new deal 
can be demanded, if in dealing the 
dealer discovers any of the adversary's 
cards ; if, to either party, too many 
cards have been dealt : in the latter 
case it is optional with the parties, 
provided it be done before a card 
has been played but not after, to 
draw from the opposing hand the 
extra card. 

If the dealer expose any of his own 
cards, the deal is to stand good. 

No person can beg more than once 
in each hand, except by mutual agree- 
ment. 

Each party must trump or follow suit 
if they can, on penalty of the adversary 
scoring one point. 

If either player score wrong, it 
must be taken down, and the ad- 
versary shall either score four points 
or one, as may have previously been 
agreed. 

When a trump is played, it is allowa- 
ble to ask your adversary if it be either 
high or low. 

One card may count all-fours ; for 
example, the eldest hand holds the 
knave and stands his game, the dealer 
has neither trump, ten, ace, nor court- 
card; it will follow that the knave will 
be both high, low, Jack, and game, as 
explained by — 

Terms Used in All- Fours.— JSz^rA. 
— The highest trump out, the holder to 
score one point. 

Low. — The lowest trump out, the 
original holder to score one point, even 
if it be taken by the adversary. 

Jack. — The knave of trumps, the 
holder to score one, unless it be won 
by the adversary ; in that case the 
winner is to score the point. 

Game. — The greatest number that. 



406 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



in the tricks gained, can be shown by 
either party, reckoning- 



One for a knave. 
Ten for a ten. 



Four for an ace. 
Three for a king. 
Two for a queen. 
The other cards do not count 



thus 



it may happen that a deal may be 
played without having any to reckon 
lor game. 

Begging is when the eldest hand, 
disliking his cards, uses his privilege, 
and says, ^'Ibeg ;" in which case the 
dealer must either suffer his adversary 
to score one point, saying, " Take oiie" 
or give each three cards more from 
the pack, and then turn up the next 
card, the seventh, for trumps ; if, how- 
ever, the trump turned up be of the 
same suit as the first, the dealer must 
go on, giving each three cards more, 
and turning up the seventh, until a 
change of suit for trumps shall take 
place. 

Maxims for All-Fours. — Always 
make your knave as soon as you can. 

Strive to secure your tens ; this is to 
be done by playing any small cards, 
by which you may throw the lead into 
your adversary's hand. 

Win your adversary's best cards 
when you can, either by trumping or 
with superior cards. 

If, being eldest hand, you hold 
either ace, king, or queen of trumps, 
without the knave or ten, play them 
immediately, as, by this means, you 
have a chance to win the knave or ten. 

DOMINO. — Description of the 
Game. — This game is played by two 
or four persons, with twenty-eight 
pieces of oblong ivory, plain at the 
Dack, but on the face divided by a 
black line in the middle, and indented 
with spots, from one to a double-six, 
which pieces are a double-blank, ace- 
blank, double-ace, deuce-blank, deuce- 
ace, double-deuce, trois-blank, trois- 
ace, trois-deuce, double-trois, four- 
blank, four-ace, four-deuce, four-trois, 
double-four, five-blank, five-ace, five- 
deuce, five-trois, five-four, double-five, 
six-blank, six-ace, six-deuce, six-trois, 
six-four, six-five, and double-six. 
Bometimes a double set is played 



with, of which double twelve b the 
highest. 

Method of Playing Dominoes.- 
At the commencement of the game 
the dominoes are well mixed together, 
with their faces upon the table. Each 
person draws one, and if four play, 
those who choose the two highest are 
partners against those who take the 
two lowest ; drawing the latter also 
serves to determine who is to lay down 
the first piece, which is reckoned a 
great advantage. Afterwards each 
player takes seven pieces at random. 
The eldest hand having laid down one, 
the next must pair him, at either end 
of the piece he may choose, accord- 
ing to the number of pips, or the 
blank in the compartment of the 
piece ; but whenever any one cannot 
match the part, either of the domino 
last put down, or of that unpaired at 
the other end of the row, then he says 
"Go;" and the next is at liberty to 
play. Thus they play alternately, 
either until one party has played all 
his pieces, and thereby won the game, 
or till the game be blocked: this is 
when neither party can play, by 
matching the pieces where unpaired 
at either end ; then that party wins 
who has the smallest number of pips 
on the pieces remaining in their pos- 
session. It is to the advantage of 
every player to dispossess himself as 
early as possible of the heavy pieces,^ 
such as a double-six, five, four, etc. 
Sometimes, when two persons play,, 
they take each only seven pieces, and 
agree to play or draw, i. e., when one 
cannot come in, or pair the pieces 
upon the board at the end unmatched,, 
he then is to draw from the fourteen 
pieces in stock till he find one to suit. 

LOO. — Description of the Game.. 
— Loo, or Lue, is subdivided into limit- 
ed and unlimited Loo ; it is a game the- 
complete knowledge of which can easily 
be acquired, and is played two ways, 
both with five and three cards, though 
most commonly with five dealt from a. 
whole pack, either first three and thea 
two, or by one at a time. Several per- 
sons may play together, but tiie great- 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



407 



est number can be admitted when with 
three cards only. 

Method of Playing Loo. — After 
five cards have been given to each 
player, another is turned up for trump ; 
the knave of clubs generally, or some- 
times the knave of the trump suit, as 
agreed upon, is the highest card, and is 
styled pam ; the ace of trumps is next 
in value, and the rest in succession, as 
at whist. Each player has the liberty 
of changing for others, from the pack, 
all or any of the five cards dealt, or of 
throwing up the hand, in order to es- 
cape being looed. Those who play their 
cards, either with or without changing, 
and do not gain a trick, are looed ; as is 
likewise the case with all who have 
stood the game, when a flush or flushes 
occur ; and each, excepting any player 
holding pam, of an inferior flush, is re- 
quired to deposit a stake, to be given 
to the person who sweeps the board, or 
divided among the winners at the ensu- 
ing deal, according to the tricks which 
may then be made. For instance, if 
every one at dealing stakes half a dol- 
lar, the tricks are entitled to ten cents 
apiece, and whoever is looed must put 
down half a dollar, exclusive of the 
deal : sometimes it is settled that each 
person looed shall pay a sum equal to 
what happens to be on the table at the 
time. Five cards of a suit, or four 
with pam, compose a flush, which 
sweeps the board, and yields only to a 
superior flush, or the elder hand. When 
the ace of trumps is led, it is usual to 
say, "^ Pam, be civil;" the holder of 
which last-mentioned card is then ex- 
pected to let the ace pass. When Loo 
is played with three cards, they are 
dealt by one at a time, pam is omitted, 
and the cards are not exchanged, nor 
permitted to be thrown up. 

PUT. — The game of Put is played 
with an entire pack of cards, generally 
by two, but sometimes by four persons. 
At this game the cards have a difierent 
value from all others. The best card 
in the pack is a trois, or three ; the next 
deuce, or two ; then come in rotation, as 
at other games, the ace, king, queen, 
knave, ten, etc. The dealer distributes 



three cards to each player, by one at a 
time ; whoever cuts the lowest card has 
the deal, and five points make the game, 
except when both parties say, ^^Iput " — 
for then the score is at an end, and the 
contest is determined in favor of that 
party who may win two tricks out of 
three. When it happens that each 
player has won a trick, and the third 
is a tie — that is, covered by a card of 
equal value — the whole goes for noth- 
ing, and the game must begin anew. 

Two-Handed Put. — The eldest 
hand should play a card ; and whether 
the adversary pass it, win it, or tie it, 
you have a right to say, " / put," or 
place your cards on the pack. If you 
accept the first and your opponent de- 
cline the challenge, you score one; if 
you prefer the latter, your adversary 
gains a point ; but if, before he play, 
your opponent says, " / put," and you 
do not choose to see him, he is entitled 
to add one to his score. It is some- 
times good play to say, "I put," be- 
fore you play a card ; this depends on 
the nature of your hand. 

Four-Han DED Put. — Each party 
has a partner, and when three cards 
are dealt to each, one of the players 
gives his partner his best card, and 
throws the other two away ; the dealer 
is at liberty to do the same to his part- 
ner, and vice versa. The two persona 
who have received their partners' cards 
play the game, previously discarding 
their worst card for the one they have 
received from their partners. The game 
then proceeds as at two-handed Put. 

Laws of Put. — When the dealer 
accidentally discovers any of his adver- 
sary's cards, the adversary may demand 
a new deal. 

When the dealer discovers any of 
his own cards in dealing, he must abide 
by the deal. 

When a faced card is discovered 
during the deal, the cai'ds must be re- 
shufiled, and dealt again. 

If the dealer give his adversary 
more cards than are necessary, the ad- 
versary may call a fresh deal, or suffer 
the dealer to draw the extra cards from 
his hand. 



408 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



If the dealer give himself more cards 
than are his due, the adversary may 
add a point to liis game, and call a 
fresh deal if he pleases, or draw the 
extra cards from the dealer's hand. 

No bystander must interfere, under 
penalty of paying the stakes. 

Either party saying, " I put " — that 
K, "I play" — cannot retract, but 
must abide the event of the game, or 
pav the stakes. 

SPECULATION is a noisy round 
game, at which several may play, using 
a complete pack of cards, bearing the 
same import as at whist, with fish or 
counters, on which such a value is 
fixed as the company may agree. The 
highest trump in each deal wins the 
pool ; and whenever it happens that 
not one is dealt, then the company 
pool again, and the event is decided 
by the succeeding coup. After deter- 
mining the deal, etc., the dealer pools 
six fish, and every other player four; 
then three cards are given to each, by 
one at a time, and another turned up 
for trump. The cards are not to be 
looked at, except in this manner: The 
eldest hand shows the uppermost card, 
which, if a trump, the company may 
speculate on, or bid for — the highest 
bidder buying and paying for it, pro- 
vided the price offered be approved of 
by the seller. After this is settled, if 
the first card does not prove a trump, 
then the next eldest is to show the up- 
permost card, and so on — the com- 
pany speculating as they please, till 
all are discovered, when the possessor 
of the highest trump, whether by pur- 
chase or otherwise, gains the pool. To 
play at speculation well, a recollection 
only is requisite of what superior cards 
of that particular suit have appeared 
in the preceding deals, and calculating 
the probability of the trump offered 
proving the highest in the deal then 
undetermined. 

MATRIMONY.— The game of Mat- 
rimony is played with an entire pack 
of cards, by any number of persons 
from five to fourteen. It consists of 
five chanc'js. usually marked on a 
board, nr sheet of paper, as follows : 





Best. 
Tlie Ace of Diamonds turned up. 




'U 

£ 2 


INTRIGUE; 

OR, 

QUEEN AND KNAVE. 


5 

5' t» 

z. 

B 









This game is generally played with 
counters, and the dealer puts what he 
pleases on each or any chance, the 
other players depositing each the same 
quantity, except one — that is, when 
the dealer stakes twelve, the rest of the 
company lay down eleven each. After 
this, two cards are dealt round to every 
one, beginning on the left; then to each 
person one other card, which is turned 
up, and he who so happens to get the 
ace of diamonds sweeps all. If it be 
not turned up, then each player shows 
his hand ; and any of them having 
matrimony, intrigue, etc., takes the 
counters on that point; and when two 
or more people happen to have a simi- 
lar combination, the oldest hand has 
the preference ; and should any chance 
not be gained, it stands over to the next 
deal. Observe — The ace of diamonds 
turned up takes the whole pool, but 
when in hand ranks only as any other 
ace ; and if not turned up, nor any ace 
in hand, then the king, or next supe- 
rior card, wins the chance styled best. 

Pope Joan. — Pope, a game some- 
what similar to that of matrimony, is 
played by a number of people, who 
generally use a board painted for this 
purpose, which may be purchased at 
most turners' or toy shops. The eight 
of diamonds must first be taken from 
the pack, and after settling the deal, 
shufHing, etc., the dealer dresses the 
board, by putting fish, counters, or 
other stakes, one each to ace, king, 
queen, knave, and game ; two to matri- 
mony, two to intrigue, and six to the 
nine of diamonds, styled Pope. This 
dressing is, in some companies, at the 
individual expense of the dealer, 
though, in others, the players contrib- 
ute two stakes apiece toward the same. 
The cards are next to be dealt round 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



409 



equally to every player, one turned up 
for trump, and about six or eight left 
in the stock to form stops ; as, for ex- 
ample, if the ten of spades be turned 
up, the nine consequently becomes a 
stop ; the four kings and the seven of 
diamonds are always fixed stops, and 
the dealer is the only person permitted, 
in the course of the game, to refer oc- 
casionally to the stock for information 
what other cards are stops in their re- 
spective deals. If either ace, king, 
queen, or knave happen to be the 
turned-up trump, the dealer may take 
whatever is deposited on that head ; 
but when pope be turned up, the dealer 
is entitled both to that and the game, 
besides a stake for every card dealt to 
each player. Unless the game be de- 
termined by pope being turned up, the 
eldest hand must begin by playing out 
as many cards as possible; first the 
stops, then pope, if he have it, and 
afterward the lowest card of his longest 
suit, particularly an ace, for that never 
can be led through ; the other players 
are to follow, when they can, in 
sequence of the same suit, till a stop 
occurs, and the party having the stop 
thereby becomes eldest hand, and is to 
lead accordingly ; and so on, until some 
person parts with all his cards, by 
which he wins the pool (game), and 
becomes entitled besides to a stake for 
every card not played by the others, 
except from any one holding pope, 
which excuses him from paying; but 
if pope has been played, then the party 
having held it is not excused. King 
and queen form what is denominated 
matrimony ; queen and knave make 
intrigue, when in the same hand ; but 
neither these, nor ace, king, queen, 
knave, or pope, entitle the holder to 
the stakes deposited thereon, unless 
played out; and no claim can be al- 
lowed after the board be dressed for the 
succeeding deal ; but in all such cases 
the stakes are to remain for future de- 
termination. This game only requires 
a little attention to recollect what stops 
have bem made in the course of the 
play ; as, for instance, if a player begin 
by laying down the eight of clubs, then 



the seven in another hand forms a stop, 
whenever that suit be led from any 
lower card ; or the holder, when eldest, 
may safely lay it down, in order to 
clear his hand. 

CASSINO. — The game of Cassino 
is played with an entire pack of cards, 
generally by four persons, but some- 
times by three, and often by two. 

Terms Used in Cassino. — Great 
Cassino, the ten of diamonds, which 
reckons for two points. 

Little Cassino, the two of spades, 
which reckons for one point. 

The Cards is when you have a 
greater share than your adversary, and 
reckons for three points. 

The Spades is when you have the 
majority of that suit, and reckons for 
one point. 

The Aces : each of which reckons for 
one point. 

Lurched is when your adversary has 
won the game before you have gained 
six points. 

In some deals at this game it may so 
happen that neither party win any- 
thing, as the points are not set up ac- 
cording to the tricks, etc., obtained, 
but the smaller number is constantly 
subtracted from the larger, both in 
cards and points ; and if they both 
prove equal, the game commences 
again, and the deal goes on in rotation. 
When three persons play at this game, 
the two lowest add their points to- 
gether, and subtract from the highest ; 
but when their two numbers together 
either amount to or exceed the highest, 
then neither party scores. 

Laws of Cassino. — The deal and 
partners are determined by cutting, as 
at whist, and the dealer gives four 
cards, by one at a time, to every 
player, and either regularly as he 
deals, or by one, two, three, or four at 
a time, lays four more, face upwards, 
upon the board, and, after the first 
cards are played, four others are to be 
dealt to each person, until the pack be 
concluded ; but it is only in the first 
deal that any cards are to be turned 
up. 
I The deal is not lost when a card la 



410 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



faced by the dtaler, unless in the first 
round, before any of the four cards are 
turned up upon the table ; but if a 
card happen to be faced in the pack, 
before any of the said four be turned 
up, then the deal must be begun 
again. 

Any person playing with less than 
four cards must abide by the loss ; and 
Bhould a card be found under the table, 
the player whose number is deficient 
is to take the same. 

Each person plays one card at a 
time, with which he may not only take 
at once every card of the same denomi- 
nation upon the table, but likewise all 
that will combine therewith ; as, for 
instance, a ten takes not only every 
ten, but also nine and ace, eight and 
deuce, seven and three, six and four, 
or two fives ; and if he clear the board 
before the conclusion of the game, he 
is to score a point ; and whenever any 
player cannot pair or combine, then he 
is to put down a card. 

The tricks are not to be counted be- 
fore all the cards are played ; nor may 
any trick but that last won be looked 
at, as every mistake must be challenged 
immediately. 

After all the pack is dealt out, the 
player who obtains the last trick sweeps 
all the cards then remaining unmatched 
upon the table. 

VINGT - UN. — Description of 
THE Game. — The game of Vingt-un, or 
twenty-one, may be played by two or 
more persons ; and, as the deal is ad- 
vantageous, and often continues long 
with the same person, it is usual to de- 
termine it at the commencement by 
turning up the first ace, or any other 
mode that may be agreed upon. 

Method of Playikg Vingt-un. 
— The cards must all be dealt out in 
succession, unless a natural Vingt-un 
ocour, and in the meantime the pone, 
or youngest hand, should collect those 
that have been played, and shuflle them 
together, ready for the dealer, against 
the period when he shall have dis- 
tiibuted the whole pack. The dealer 
is first to give two cards, by one at a 
time, to each player, including him- 



self; then to ask every person in rota- 
tion, beginning with the eldest hand 
on the left, whether he stands or 
chooses another card, which, if re- 
quired, must be given from off the top 
of the pack, and afterwards another, or 
more, if desired, till the points of the 
additional card or cards, added to those 
dealt, exceed or make twenty-one ex- 
actly, or such a number less than 
twenty-one as may be judged proper 
to stand upon. But when the points 
exceed twenty-one, then the cards of 
that individual player are to be thrown 
up directly, and the stakes to be paid 
to the dealer, who also is, in turn, en- 
titled to draw additional cards ; and, 
on taking a Vingt-un, is to receive 
double stakes from all who stand the 
game, except such other players, like- 
wise having twenty-one, between whom 
it is thereby a drawn game ; and when 
any adversary has a Vingt-un, and the 
dealer not, then the opponent so hav- 
ing twenty - one wins double stakes 
from him. In other cases, except a 
natural Vingt-un happen, the dealer 
pays single stakes to all whose num- 
bers under twenty-one are higher than 
his own, and receives from those who 
have lower numbers ; but nothing is 
paid or received by such players a» 
have similar numbers to the dealer; 
and when the dealer draws more than 
twenty-one, he is to pay to all who 
have not thrown up. 

Natural Vingt-un. — Twenty-one, 
whensoever dealt in the first instance, 
is styled a Natural Vingt-un, it should 
be declared immediately, and entitles 
the possessor to the deal, besides 
double stakes from all the players, 
unless there shall be more than one 
Natural Vingt-un ; in which case the 
younger hand or hands having the 
same are excused from paying to the 
eldest, who takes the deal, of course. 
Observe — An ace may be reckoned 
j either as eleven or one ; every court- 
card is counted as ten, and the rest of 
the pack according to their points. 

TuE Odds of Natural Vingt-un 
merely depend ujion the average num- 
ber of cards likelv to come under or 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



411 



exceed tweuty-one; for example, if 
those in hand make fourteen exactly, 
it is seven to six that the one next 
drawn does not make the number of 
points above twenty-one; but if the 
points be fifteen, it is seven to six 
against that hand ; yet it would not, 
therefore, always be prudent to stand 
at fifteen, but as the ace may be calcu- 
lated both ways, it is rather above an 
even bet that the adversary's two first 
cards amount to more than fourteen. 
A natural Vingt-un may be expected 
once in seven coups when two, and 
twice in seven when four people play, 
and so on, according to the number of 
players. 

CROftTJET.— This out-door pastime 
is of comparatively modern creation, 
and is every day becoming more in 
vogue. It may be played by persons 
of all ages and of either sex ; but it 
is especially adapted for ladies and 
young persons, as it demands but 
trifling personal exertion, while it 
affords delightful and health-giving 
sport. 

The Ground upon which Croquet 
Is Played is preferably a grass-plot 
of an oblong form ; but an ordinary 
lawn or expanse of even turf will 
answer the purpose, so long as it is of 
sufficient extent for the operation of 
the game. 

The Implements for Playing 
Croquet are the balls, the mallets, the 
starting and turning-pegs, the croquet 
clips or markers, the hoops or arches. 
These may be obtained at the ordinary 
toy warehouses. 

Arrangement of the Hoops. — 
As much of the interest of this game 
depends upon the arrangement of the 
hoops, it is essential that they should 
be fixed in the ground on definite 
principles. In the first place, the 
starting-peg is driven in at one end of 
the ground, and the turning-peg is 
driven in at the other extremity. 
From each of these pegs a space of 
twelve feet intervenes ; here a hoop is 
fixed ; another space of ten feet inter- 
venes, when a second hoop is fixed; 
A space of eight feet then succeeds, 



and at this point is formed what may 
be termed the base, on each side of 
which, at a distance of twenty feet, and 
succeeding each other at intervals of 
ten feet, three hoops are driven in. 
By this arrangement a square is 
formed, the starting-peg leading inta 
its centre, and the turning-peg lead- 
ing from it. Where the ground is 
small, the distances may be contracted 
proportionally. Other arrangements 
of the hoops may be made at the 
discretion of the players, but the first- 
named plan will be found best worthy 
of adoption, as it afibrds the most 
excellent opportunities for the display 
of address and skill. 

The Game consists in striking the 
balls from the starting-peg through 
the seven hoops to the peg at the 
opposite extremity. The balls are 
then driven back again to the starting 

The Game may be played by any 
number of persons not exceeding 
eight. A larger number protracts the 
intervals between the several turns, 
and thereby renders the game tedious. 
The most eligible number is four. If 
two only play, each player should take 
two balls, and when as many as eight 
play, there should be two sides or sets. 

In Playing the Game each player 
takes a mallet, ball, and croquet clip 
of the same color or number, the clip 
being used to indicate the hoop at 
which, in his turn, he aims. The divi- 
sion into sides, choice of balls, mallets, 
etc., is determined by the players- 
among themselves. 

Laws of the Game.— In Croquet,, 
as with many other sports when first 
established, there exist differences of 
opinion on certain points of practice. 
We have consulted numerous treatises 
on the game, and find Jaques's " Laws 
and Regulations of the Game of Cro- 
quet " to be one of the most practical 
and straightforward manuals extant. 
It is to this work that we are mainly 
indebted for the following laws of the 
game: 

On commencing, each player must 
place his ball within a mallet's length 



412 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



of the starting-peg in any direction, 
and his opening stroke mast be to 
pass through the first hoop. 

The players on each side are to play 
alternately, according to the colors on 
the starting-peg, and the order in 
which they play cannot be altered 
during the game. 

Each player continues to play so 
long as he plays with success, that is, 
so long as he drives his ball through 
the next hoop in order, or croquets 
another ball. 

When a player strikes his own ball 
so as to hit another at a distance, he is 
said to roquet it ; and, having thus hit 
a ball, he must then, as it is termed, 
" take the croquet," which is done as 
follows : — He lays his own ball against 
the other so that the two touch ; he then 
places his foot on his own ball, which 
he strikes with his mallet ; this will 
drive the ball with a momentum and 
in a direction most desired. In doing 
this the player should press his foot on 
his own ball. 

A player must move the ball he cro- 
quets. He is said to " take a stroke 
off" when he places his own ball to 
touch the croqueted ball very lightly, 
80 as to leave it, when croqueted, in 
nearly the aajj^e position ; but in doing 
this the croqueted ball must be per- 
ceptibly moved. 

No ball can croquet, or be croqueted, 
until it be passed through the first 
hoop. 

Any player missing the first hoop 
takes his ball up, and, when his turn 
comes again, plays from the starting 
place, as at first. 

A player may croquet any number 
of balls consecutively ; but he cannot 
croquet the same ball twice during the 
same turn, without first sending his 
own ball through the next hoop in 
order. 

Instead of aiming at his hoop or 
another ball, a player may strike his 
ball towards any part of the ground he 
pleases. When he has made a com- 
plete circuit from the starting-peg back 
to the starting-peg, he may either retire 
from the game by pegging, or, by not 



doing so, remain in. In this case he ia 
called a " rover," and will still have 
the power of croqueting consecutively 
all the balls during any one of hia 
turns. 

When a ball roquets another ball, 
the player's ball is " dead," and " in 
hand " until after the player of it has 
taken the croquet. Hence it follows 
that if it cannon from one ball to 
another, or from a ball through its own 
hoop, or from a ball on to either of the 
pegs, none of these subsequent strokes 
count anything. If, however, a player 
cannon oflf a ball which in the same 
turn he has croqueted, and then runs 
off it and makes a stroke, that stroke 
counts. 

A player whose ball is roqueted or 
croqueted through its hoop in order, 
counts the hoop. 

A player must hit his ball fairly — 
not push it. A ball is considered to 
be fairly hit when the sound of the 
stroke is heard. A ball is " pushed " 
when the face of the mallet is allowed 
to rest against it, and the ball pro- 
pelled without the mallet being drawn 
back. 

A player may play in any attitude; 
and use his mallet with his hands 
in any way he pleases, so that he 
strike the ball with the face of the 
mallet. 

When the ball of a player hits the 
starting-peg, after he has been through 
all the hoops, whether by his own play, 
or by being roqueted (subject 'o the 
provisions in law 10), or by being cro- 
queted, he is out of the game, which 
goes on without him, his turn being 
omitted. 

The clip is placed on the hoop 
through which the player is next going. 
The clips are to be changed by the 
umpire, and are decisive as to the posi- 
tion of a player's ball ; but if the um- 
pire forget to change a clip, any player 
may remind him before the next stroke. 
Should there be no clips, a player is 
entitled to ask any other player how he 
stands in the game. 

A player stops at the peg; that is 
having struck the turning-peg in order, 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



413 



his turn is at an end, and even though 
he should roquet off the peg, it does not 
count. When his turn comes round 
again, he plays his ball from the spot it 
rolled to after pegging. 

A ball is considered to have passed 
through its hoop if it cannot be touched 
by the handle of the mallet, laid on the 
ground from wire to wire, on the side 
from which the ball passed. 

The decision of the umpire is final. 
His duties are — to move the clips ; to 
decide when balls are fairly struck ; to 
restore balls to their places which have 
been disturbed by accident ; and to de- 
cide whether a croqueted ball is moved 
or not, in doubtful cases. 

Terms Used in the Game. — Roquet. 
— To hit another ball with one's own. 
Croquet. — To strike one's own ball 
when in contact with a roqueted ball. 
Wired. — To have the ball in such a 
position that a hoop prevents the 
stroke which is wished to be made. 
Peg. — To " peg " is to strike either of 
the pegs in proper order. Dismiss. — 
To " dismiss " a ball is to croquet it to 
a distance. 

Connndrums. — These are simple 
catches, in which the sense is playfully 
cheated, and are generally founded 
upon words capable of double mean- 
ing. The following are examples : 

Where did Charles the First's exe- 
cutioner dine, and what did he take ? 

He took a chop at the King's Head. 

When is a plant to be dreaded more 
than a mad dog ? 

When it '« madder. 

What is majesty stripped of its ex- 
ternals ? 

It is a jest. [The m and the y, ex- 
ternals, are taken away.] 

Why is hot bread like a caterpillar? 

Because it 's the grub that makes the 
butter fly. 

Why did the accession of Victoria 
throw a greater damp over England 
than the death of King William ? 

Because the King was missed (mist) 
while the Queen was reigning (raining). 

Why should a gouty man make his 
will ? 

To have his legatees (leg at ease). 



Why are brankrupts more to be 
pitied than idiots ? 

Because bankrupts are broken, while 
idiots are only cracked. 

Why is the treadmill like a true con- 
vert? 

Because its turning is the result of 
conviction. 

When may a nobleman's property 
be said to be all feathers ? 

When his estates are all entails (hen- 
tails). 

The Charade is a poetical or other 
composition founded upon a word, each 
syllable of which constitutes a noun, 
and the whole of which word consti- 
tutes another noun of a somewhat dif- 
ferent meaning from those supplied by 
its separate syllables. Words which 
fully answer these conditions are the 
best for the purposes of charades; 
though many other words are em- 
ployed. In writing, the first sylla- 
ble is termed "My first," the second 
syllable, "J/y second," and the com- 
plete word, "My whole." The fol- 
lowing is an example of a poetical 
charade : 

The breath of the momiMg is Bwoet ; 

The earth is bespangled with flowen; 
And buds in a countless array 

Have oped at the touch of the showen. 
The birds, whose glad voices are ever 

A music delightful to hear, 
Seem to welcome the joy of the morning, 

As the hour of the bridal draws near. 

What is that which now steals on myfirtt. 

Like a sound from the dreamland of loTU, 
And seems wandVing the valleys among. 

That they may the nuptials approve? 
'Tis a sound which my second explains, 

And it comes from a sacred abode, 
And it merrily trills as the villagers throng 

To greet the fair bride on her road. 

How meek is her dress, how befitting a bride — 

So beautiful, spotless, and pure! 
When she weareth my second, oh, long may it be 

Ere her heart shall a sorrow endure. 
See the glittering gem thict shines forth from het 
hair — 

'Tis my whole, which a good father gave ; 
'Twas worn by her mother with honor before — 

But she sleepeth in peace in her grave. 
'Twas her earnest request, as she bade them adien," 

That when her dear daughter the altardrew near. 
She should wear the same gem that her mother had 
worn 

When she as a bride full of promise stood there. 

The Answer is Ear-ring. The bells 
ring, the sound steals upon the ear, and 
the bride wears an ear-ring. Charades 



414 



YOU ask! — i' LI. tell! 



may be sentimental or humorous, in 
poetry or prose ; they may also be acted_ 
in which manner they aflford consider- 
able amusement. 

Acted Charades, — A drawing- 
room with folded doors is the best for 
the purpose. Various household appli- 
ances are employed to fit up something 
like a stage, and to supply the fitting 
scenes. Characters dressed in cos- 
tumes made up of handkerchiefs, coats, 
shawls, table-covers, etc., come on and 
perform an extempore play, founded 
upon the parts of a word, and its whole, 



as indicated above. For instance, tlio 
events explained in the poem above 
might be acted — glasses might be rung 
for Ih'IIs — something might be said in 
the course of the dialogues about the 
sound of the bells being delightful to 
the ear ; there might be a dance of the 
villagers, in whicli a ring might be 
formed; a wedding might be per- 
formed ; and so on. Though for acting 
Charades there are many better words, 
because ear-ring could with difficulty 
be represented without at once betray- 
ing the meaning. 



THE ART OF NEEDLEWORK. 

LrrrLE Ways to Make Homes Attractive — Lessons in Wax Flower- 
work — Instructions about Kniiting and Edging, ' 



Anglo-Japanese Work.— This is an 

elegant and easy domestic art. Take 
yellow withered leaves, dissolve gum, 
black paint, copal varnish, etc. Any 
articles may be ornamented with these 
simple materials — an old tea-caddy, 
flower-pots, fire-screens, screens of all 
descriptions, work-boxes, etc. Select 

Eerfect leaves, dry and press them 
etween the leaves of books ; rub the 
Burface of the article to be ornamented 
with fine sand-paper, then give it a 
coat of fine black paint, which should 
be procured mixed at a color shop. 
When dry, rub smooth with pumice- 
stone, and give two other coats. Dry. 
Arrange leaves in any manner and 
variety, according to taste. Gum the 
leaves on the under side, and press 
them upon their places. Then dissolve 
some isinglass in hot water, and brush 
it over the work. Dry. Give three 
coats of copal varnish, allowing ample 
time for each coat to dry. Articles 
thus ornamented last for years, and are 
very pleasing. 

Ornamental Leather Work. — An 
excellent imitation of carved oak, suit- 
able for frames, boxes, vases, and orna 
ments in endless variety, may be made 
of a description of leather called basil. 
The art consists in simply cutting out 
this material in imitation of natural 
objects, and in impressing upon it by 
simple tools, either with or without the 
aid of heat, such marks and character- 
istics as are necessary to the imitation. 
The rules given with regard to the imi- 
tation of leaves and flowers apply to 
ornamental leather work. Begin with 



a simple object, and proceed by degrees 
to those that are more complicated. 
Cut out an ivy or an oak leaf, and im- 
press the veins upon it ; then arrange 
these in groups, and aflix them to 
frames, or otherwise. The tools re- 
quired are ivory or steel points of vari- 
ous sizes, punches, and tin shapes, such 
as are used for confectionery. The 
points may be made out of the handles 
of old tooth-brushes. Before cutting 
out the leaves the leather should be 
well soaked in water, until it is quite 
pliable. When dry, it will retain the 
artistic shape. Leaves and stems are 
fastened together by means of liquid 
glue, and varnished with any of the 
drying varnishes, or with sealing-wax 
dissolved to a suitable consistency in 
spirits of wine. Wire, cork, gutta- 
percha, bits of stems of trees, etc., may 
severally be used to aid in the forma- 
tion of groups of buds, flowers, seed- 
vessels, etc. 

Black Paper Patterns. — Mix somo 
lampblack with sweet oil. With a 
piece of flannel cover sheets of writing- 
paper with a mixture : dab the paper 
dry with a bit of fine linen. When 
using, put the black side on another 
sheet of paper, and fasten the corners 
together with small pins. Lay on the 
back of the black paper the pattern to 
be drawn, and go over it with the point 
of a steel drawing pencil: the black 
will then leave the impression of the 
pattern on the under sheet, on which 
you may draw it with ink. 

Patterns on Cloth or Muslin are 
drawn with a pen dipped in stone blue, 
415 



410 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



a bit of sugar, and a little water ; wet 
to the consistence wanted. 

Feather Flowers. — Procure the 
best white swan or goose feathers; 
have them plucked off the fowl with 
care not to break the web ; free them 
from down, except a small quantity on 
the shaft of the feather. Get also a 
little fine wire, different sizes ; a few 
skeins of fine floss silk, some good cot- 
ton wool or wadding, a reel of No. 4 
Moravian cotton, a skein of Indian 
silk, the starch and gum for pastes, 
and a pair of small sharp scissors, a 
few sheets of colored silk paper, and 
some water colors. 

Having phocured Two Good 
Specimens of the flower you wish to 
imitate, carefully pull off the petals of 
one, and, with a piece of tissue paper, 
cut out the shape of each, taking care 
to leave the shaft of the feather at least 
half an inch longer than the petal of 
the flower. Carefully bend the feather 
with the thumb and finger to the proper 
shape ; mind not to break the web. 

To Make the Stem and Heart of 
A Flower. — Take a piece of wire six 
inches long ; across the top lay a small 
piece of cotton wool, turn the wire over 
it, and wind it round until it is the size 
of the heart or centre of the flower you 
are going to imitate. If a single flower, 
cover it with paste or velvet of the 
proper color, and round it must be ar- 
ranged the stamens; these are made 
of fine Indian silk, or feathers may be 
used for this purpose. After the petals 
have been attached, the silk or feather 
is dipped into gum, and then into the 
farina. Place the petals round, one at 
a time, and wind them on with Mo- 
ravian cotton. No. 4. Arrange them 
as nearly like the flower you have for 
a copy as possible. Cut the stems of 
the feathers even, and then make the 
calyx of feathers, cut like the pattern 
or natural flower. For the small flowers 
the calyx is made with paste. Cover 
the stems with paper or silk the same 
as the flowers ; the paper must be cut 
in narrow strips, about a quarter of an 
inch wide. 
To Make the Pastes of the Ca lyx, 



Hearts, and Blds of Flowers. — 
Take common white starch and mix it 
with gum water until it is the sub- 
stance of thick molasses ; color it with 
the dyes used for the feathers, and 
keep it from the air. 

To Make the Farina. — Use com- 
mon ground rice, mixed into a stiff 
paste with any dye : dry it before the 
fire, and when quite hard, pound it to 
a fine powder. The buds, berries, and 
hearts of some double flowers are made 
with cotton wool, wound around wire, 
moulded to the shape with thumb and 
finger. Smooth it over with gum 
water, and when dry, cover the buds 
berries, or calyx with the proper col 
ored pastes : they will require one or 
two coats, and may be shaded with a 
little paint, and then gummed and left 
to dry. 

Flowers of Two or more Shades 
are variegated with water colors, mixed 
with lemon-juice, ultra-marine, and 
chrome for blue ; and to produce other 
effects, gold may also be used in powder, 
mixed with lemon-juice and gum water. 
To Dye Feathers Blue. — Into ten 
cents worth of oil of vitriol mix ten 
cents worth of the best indigo in pow- 
der ; let it stand a day or two ; when 
wanted shake it well, and into a quart 
of boiling water put one tablespoonful 
of the liquid. Stir it well, put the 
feathers in, and let them simmer a few 
minutes. 

Yellow. — Put a tablespoonful of 
the best turmeric into a quart of boil- 
ing water; when well mixed put in 
the feathers. More or less of the tur- 
meric will give them different shades, 
and a very small quantity of soda will 
give them an orange hue. 

Green. — Mix the indigo liquid 
with turmeric, and pour boiling water 
over it; let the feathers simmer in the 
dye until they have acquired the shade 
you want them. 

Pink. — Three good pink saucers in 
a quart of boiling water, with a small 
quantity of cream of tartar. If a deep 
color is required, use four saucers. 
Let the feathers remain in the dye sev- 
eral hours. 



WAX FLOWERS. 



417 



Red. — In a quart of boiling water 
dissolve a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar; put in one tablespoonful of pre- 
pared cochineal, and then a few drops 
of muriate of tin. This dye is expen- 
sive, and scarlet flowers are best made 
with the plumage of the red ibis, 
which can generally be had of a bird- 
fancier or bird-stufFer, who will give 
directions how it should be applied. 

Lilac. — About two teaspoonfuls of 
cudbear into about a quart of boiling 
water ; let it simmer a tew minutes be- 
fore you put in the feathers. A small 
quantity of cream of tartar turns the 
color from lilac to amethyst. 

Black; Crimson. — Read the gen- 
eral instructions upon Dyeing. 

Before the Feathers are Dyed 
they must be put into hot water, and 
allowed to drain before they are put 
into the dyes. After they are taken 
out of the dye, rinse them two or three 
times in clear cold water (except the 
red, which must only be done once), 
then lay them on a tray, over which a 
cloth has been spread, before a good 
fire ; when they begin to dry and un- 
fold, draw each feather gently between 
your thumb and finger, until it re- 
gains its proper shape. 

The Leaves of the Flowers are 
made of green feathers, cut like those 
of the natural flower, and serrated at 
the edge with a very small pair of scis- 
sors. For the calyx of a moss-rose 
the down is left on the feather, and is 
a very good representation of the moss 
on the natural flower. 

Waxen Flowers and Fruit.— 
There is no art more easily acquired, 
nor more encouraging in its immediate 
results, than that of modelling flowers 
and fruit in wax. The art, however, 
is attended by this drawback — that 
the materials required are somewhat 
expensive. 

The Materials required for 
commencing the making of waxen 
flowers may be obtained at most fancy 
repositories in large towns. Persons 
wishing to commence the art would do 
well to inquire the particulars, and see 
i^tecimens of materials; because in 
27 



this, as in every other pursuit, there 
are novelties and improvements being 
introduced, which no book can give an 
idea of. 

The Petals, Leaves, etc., of 
flowers, are made of sheets of colored 
wax, which may be purchased in pack- 
ets of assorted colors. 

The Stems are made of wire of 
suitable thickness, covered with silk, 
and overlaid with wax ; and the leaves 
are frequently made by thin sheets of 
wax pressed upon leaves of embossed 
calico. Leaves of various descriptions 
are to be obtained of the persons who 
sell the materials for wax flower 
making. 

Ladies will often find, among 
their discarded artificial flowers, leaves 
and buds that will serve as the base of 
their wax models. 

The Best Guide to the construction 
of a flower — far better than printed 
diagrams or patterns — is to take a 
flower, say a tulip, a rose, or a camellia. 
If possible, procure two flowers, nearly 
alike, and carefully picking one of 
them to pieces, lay the petals down 
in the order in which they are taken 
from the flower, and then cut paper 
patterns from them, and number them 
from the centre of the flower, that you 
may know their relative position. 

The Perfect Flower will guide 
you in getting the wax petals together, 
and will enable you to give, not only 
to each petal, but to the contour of the 
flower, the characteristics which are 
natural to it. In most cases, they are 
merely pressed together and held in 
their places by the adhesiveness of the 
wax. From the paper patterns the 
wax petals or other portions of the 
flowers may be cut. They should be 
cut singly, and the scissors should be 
frequently dipped into water, to pre- 
vent the wax adhering to the blades. 

The Scraps of Wax that fall from 
the cutting will be found useful for 
making seed-vessels, and other parts 
of the flowers. 

Leaves of Flowers. — Where the 
manufactured foundations cannot be 
obtained, patterns of them sbould b« 



418 



YOD ask! — I'll tell! 



cut in paper, and tlie venous appear- 
ance may be imparted to the wax by 
pressing the leaf upon it. 

In the Constkuction of Sprigs, 
it is most important to be guided by 
sprigs of the natural plant, as various 
kinds of plants have many different 
characteristics in the grouping of their 
tlowers, leaves, and branches. 

Take a Flower and Copy it, ob- 
serving care in the selection of good 
sheets of wax, and seeing that their 
colors are precisely those of the flower 
you desire to imitate. 

For the Tints, Stripes, and 
Spots of variegated flowers, you will 
be supplied with colors among the 
other materials; and the application 
of them is precisely upon the principle 
of water-color painting. 

For the Imitating of Fruit in 
wax, very different rules are to be ob- 
served. The following directions may, 
however, be generally followed : — The 
material of which moulds for waxen 
fruit should be composed is the best 
plaster of Paris, which can be bought 
from the Italian figure-makers at about 
a penny a pound, in bags containing 
fourteen pounds, or half-bags contain- 
ing seven pounds. If this cannot be 
procured, the cheaper plaster from the 
oil-shops may be substituted, if it can 
be obtained quite fresh. If, however, 
the plaster is faulty, the results of the 
modelling will of course be more or 
less faulty also. It is the property of 
plaster of Paris to form a chemical 
union with water, and to form a paste 
which rapidly " sets " or hardens into 
a substance of the density of firm 
chalk. The mould must therefore be 
made by an impression from the ob- 
ject to be imitated, made upon the 
plaster before it sets. 

The Use of an Elastic Fruit in 
early experiments leads to a want of 
accuracy in the first steps of the opera- 
tion, which causes very annoying diffi- 
culties afterwards : and therelbre a 
Bolid, inelastic body — an egg boiled 
hard — is recommended as the first ob- 
ject to be imitated. 
Having Filled a Small Pudding 



Basin about three-quarters full of 
damp sand (the finer the better), lay 
the egg lengthways in the sand, so that 
half of it is above and half below the 
level of the sand, which should be per- 
fectly smooth around it. Then prepare 
the plaster in another basin, which 
should be half full of water. Sprinkle 
the plaster in quickly till it comes to 
the top of the water, and then, having 
stirred it for a moment with a spoon, 
pour the whole upon the egg in the 
other basin. 

While the Half Mould thus 
made is hardening thoroughly, care- 
fully remove every particle of plaster 
from the basin in which it was mixed, 
and also from the spoon which has been 
used. This must be done by placing 
them both in water, and wiping them 
perfectly clean. This is highly impor- 
tant, since a small quantity of plaster 
which has set will destroy the quality 
of a second mixing if it is incorporated 
therewith. In about five minutes the 
half mould will be fit to remove, which 
may be done by turning the basin up 
with the right hand (taking care not to 
loose the sand), so thaHthe mould falls 
into the left hand. The egg should 
then be gently allowed to fall back on 
the sand out of the mould ; if, however, 
it adheres, lightly scrape the plaster 
from the edge of the mould, and then 
shake it out into the hollow of the hand. 
If, however, the exact half of the egg 
has been immersed in the sand, no such 
difficulty will arise ; this shows how 
important is exactness in the first posi- 
tion of the object from which a cast- 
ing is to be taken. The egg being 
removed and laid aside, the mould or 
casting must be " trimmed ; " that is, 
the sand must be brushed from the flat 
surface of the mould with a nail-brush, 
very slightly, without touching the ex- 
treme and sharp edges where the hollow 
of the mould commences. Then upon 
the broad edge, from which the sand 
has been brushed, make four equi-dis- 
tant hollows (with the round end of a 
table-knife), like the deep impression 
of a thimble's end. These are to guide 
hereafter in the fixing of the second 



WAX FLOWERS. 



419 



half of the mould. The egg should 
now be replaced in the casting, and the 
edge of the cast, with the holes, thor- 
oughly lubricated with sweet oil laid 
on with a feather, or what is better, a 
large camel-hair brush. 

Into the Small Pudding Basin, 
from which the sand has been emptied, 
place, with the egg uppermost, the half 
mould, which, if the operation has 
been managed properly, should fit close 
at the edges to the side of the vessel ; 
then prepare some more liquid plaster 
as before, and pour it upon the egg and 
mould, and while it is hardening,round 
it with the spoon as with the first half. 

In Due Time Remove the whole 
from the basin ; the halves will be 
found readily separable, and the egg 
being removed, the mould is ready to 
cast in, after it has been set aside for 
an hour or two, so as to completely 
harden. This is the simplest form of 
mould, and all are made upon the 
flame principle. 

The Casting of an Egg is not 
merely interesting as the first step in 
a seri&s of lessons, but as supplying a 
meaas of imitating peculiarly charm- 
ing objects, which the natural histo- 
rian tries almost in vain to preserve. 
We shall proceed, then, with the 
directions for the casting of an egg in 
the mould, 

For the First Experiments, 
common yellow wax may be used as 
the material, or the ends of half- 
burnt wax candles. The materials of 
the hard (not tallow) composition 
mould candles will also answer. 

Every Large Object to be Imi- 
tated in wax should be cast hollow ; 
and therefore, though the transparent 
lightness required in the imitation of 
fruits is not requisite in an artificial 
egg, we shall cast the egg upon the 
same principle as a piece of fruit. 
Firstly. The two pieces of the plaster 
of Paris mould must be soaked in hot 
water for ten minutes. Secondly. 
The wax should in the meantime be 
very slowly melted in a small tin 
saucepan, with a spout to it, care being 
taken not to allow it to boil, or it will 



be discolored. As to the quantity of 
wax to be melted, the following is a 
general rule: If a lump, the size of 
the object to be imitated, be placed in 
the saucepan, it should be sufficient 
for casting twice, at least. Thirdly. 
As soon as the wax is melted thor- 
oughly, place the saucepan on the hob 
of the grate, and, taking the parts of 
the mould from the hot water, remove 
the moisture from their surfaces by 
pressing them gently with a handker- 
chief or soft cloth. It is necessary to 
use what is called in some of the arts 
" a very light hand " in this operation, 
especially in drying moulds of fruits 
whose aspect possesses characteristic 
irregularities — such as those on the 
orange, the lemon, or the cucumber. 
The mould must not be wiped, but 
only pressed. If the water has not 
been hot enough, or if the drying is 
not performed quickly, the mould will 
be too cold, and the wax will congeal 
too rapidly, and settle in ridges and 
streaks ; on the other hand, if the wax 
has been too hot, it will adhere to the 
mould, and refuse to come out entire. 
Fourthly. Having laid the two halves 
of tlxe mould so that there can be no 
mistake in fitting the one in its exact 
place quickly on the other, pour from 
the saucepan into o?ie of the half 
moulds nearly as much wax as will 
fill the hollow made by the model 
(egg), quickly fit the other half on the 
top of it, squeeze the two pieces tightly 
together in the hand, and still hold- 
ing them thus, turn them over in 
every possible position, so that the 
wax, which is slowly congealing in 
the internal hollow of the mould, 
may be of equal thickness in all parts. 
Having continued this process at least 
two minutes, the hands (still holding 
and turning the mould) may be im- 
mersed in cold water to accelerate the 
cooling process. The perfect congeal- 
ment of the wax may be known after 
a little experience by the absence of 
the sound of fluid on shaking the 
mould. Fifthly. As soon as the mould 
is completely cooled, the halves may 
i be separated carefully, the upper being 



420 



YOU ask!— I'll tell! 



lifted straight up from the under, and 
if the operation has been properly 
managed, a waxen egg will be turned 
out of the mould. Lastly. The egg 
will only require triimniiig, that is, re- 
moving the ridge which marks the line 
at which the halves of the mould 
joined, and polishing out the scratches 
or inequalities left by the knife with a 
piece of soft rag, wet with spirits of 
turpentine or spirits of wine. It is 
always desirable to make several cast- 
ings of the same object, as the moulds 
are apt to get chipped when laid by in 
a cupboard; and for this reason, as 
well as for the sake of practice, we re- 
commend our pupils to make at least 
a dozen waxen eggs before they pro- 
ceed to any other object. If they suc- 
ceed in this completely, they may rest 
assured that every difficulty which is 
likely to meet them in any future oper- 
ations will be easily overcome. 

To Color the Wax. — While the 
wax is yet on the hob, and in a fluid 
state, stir into it a little Jlake white, in 
powder, and continue to stir the mix- 
ture while it is being poured into the 
half mould. It will be found that un- 
less the fixing and shaking of the 
moulds is managed quickly, the color- 
ing matter will settle on the side of 
the half into which the mixture is 
poured ; a little care in manipulation 
is therefore again requisite. The color- 
ing of the wax is a matter which comes 
easily enough by experiment. Oranges, 
lemons, large gooseberries, small cu- 
cumbers, etc., etc., are excellent ob- 
jects for practice. 

To Produce a Good Imitation 
or THE Surface. — It will be noted 
by the close observer that the shell of 
the common hen's egg has a number 
of minute holes, which destroy the 
perfect smoothness of its appearance. 
This peculiarity is imitated in the fol- 
lowing simple manner : — In the first 
place, very slightly prick with a fine 
needle the surface of your waxen egg, 
and then, having smeared it with 
epirits of turpentine, rub the surface 
all over, so as nearly to obliterate the 
marks of the needle point. 



DIAPHANIE. — This is a beauti- 
ful, useful, and inexpensive art, easily 
acquired, and producing imitations of 
the richest and rarest stained glass; 
and also of making blinds, screens, 
skylights, Chinese lanterns, etc., in 
every variety of color and design. 

In Decorating his House, an 
American spends as much money as 
he can conveniently spare; the ele- 
gances and refinements of modern 
taste demand something more than 
mere comfort; yet though his walls 
are hung with pictures, his drawing- 
rooms filled with bijouterie, how is it 
that the windows of his hall, his 
library, his staircase, are neglected? 
The reason is obvious. The magnifi- 
cent historical old stained glass might 
be envied, but could not be brought 
within the compass of ordinary means. 
Recent improvements in printing in 
colors led the way to this beautiful in- 
vention, by which economy is com- 
bined with the most perfect results. A 
peculiar kind of paper is rendered per 
fectly transparent, upon which designs 
are printed in glass colors [vitre de 
couleurs), which will not change with 
the light. The paper is applied to tlie 
glass with a clear white varnish, and 
when dry, a preparation is finally ap- 
plied, which increases the transpa- 
rency, and adds tenfold brilliancy to 
the effect. 

There is Another Design, printed 
in imitation of the half-light [abat- 
jour) ; this is used principally for a 
ground, covering the whole surface of 
the glass, within which (the necessary 
spaces having been previously cut out 
before it is stuck on the glass) are 
placed medallion centres of Watteau 
figures, perfectly transparent, which 
derive increased brilliancy from the 
semi-transparency of the surrounding 
ground. This is by far the cheap- 
est method, though involving extra 
trouble. 

To Ascertain the Quantity of de- 
signs required, measure your glass care- 
fully, and then calculate how many 
sheets it will take. The sheets are 
arranged so that they can be joined 



DIAPHANIE, 



421 



together continuously, or cut to any 
size or shape. 

Practical Instructions. — Choose 
a fine day for the operation, as the 
glass should be perfectly dry, and un- 
affected by the humidity of the atmos- 
phere. Of course, if you have a choice, 
it is more convenient to work on your 
glass before it is fixed in the frame. If 
you are working on a piece of unat- 
tached glass, lay it on a fiat table (a 
marble slab is preferable), over which 
you must previously lay a piece of 
baize or cloth to keep the glass steady. 
The glass being thus fixed, clean and 
polish the side on which you intend to 
operate (in windows this is the inner 
side), then with your brush lay on it 
very equably a good coat of the pre- 
pared varnish ; let this dry for an hour, 
more or less, according to the dryness 
of the atmosphere and the thickness 
of the coat of varnish ; meantime cut 
and trim your designs carefully to fit 
the glass (if it is one entire transparent 
sheet you will find little trouble) ; then 
lay them on a piece of paper, face 
downwards, and damp the back of 
them with a sponge, applied several 
times, to equalize the moisture. In 
this operation arrange your time so 
that your designs may now be finally 
left to dry for fifteen minutes before ap- 
plication to the glass, the varnish on 
•which has now become tacky or sticky, 
and in a proper state to receive them. 
Apply the printed side next to the 
glass without pressure ; endeavor to let 
your sheet fall perfectly level and 
smooth on your glass, so that you may 
avoid leaving creases, which would be 
fatal. Take now your palette, lay it 
flat on the design, and press out all the 
air-bubbles, commencing in the centre, 
and working them out at the sides ; an 
ivory stick will be found useful in re- 
moving creases ; you now leave this to 
■dry, and after twenty-four hours apply 
a slight coat of the liqueur diaphanie, 
leaving it another day, when, if dry, 
apply a second coat of the same kind, 
which must be left several days : finally, 
apply a coat of varnish over all. 

If these Directions are Care- 



fully FOLLOWED, your glass will 
never be affected by time or any varia- 
tions in the weather ; it will defy hail, 
rain, frost, and dust, and can be washed 
the same as ordinary stained glass, to 
which, in some i"espects, it is even 
superior. 

It is impossible to enumerate 
the variety of articles to the manufac- 
ture of which diaphanie may be suc- 
cessfully applied, as it is not confined 
to glass, but can be done on silk, parch- 
ment, paper, linen, etc., after they have 
been made transparent, which may be 
accomplished in the following manner: 

Stretch your Paper, or whatever 
it may be, on a frame or drawing board, 
then apply two successive coats (a day 
between each) of diaphanous liquor, 
and after leaving it to dry for several 
days, cover it with a thin layer of very 
clear size, and when dry it will be in a 
fit state to receive the coat of varnish 
and the designs. 

Silk, Linen, or other Stuffs 
should be more carefully stretched, and 
receive a thicker coat of size than paper 
or parchment; the latter may be 
strained on a drawing or any other 
smooth board, by damping the sheet, 
and after pasting the edges, stretching 
it down while damp (silk, linen, and 
other stufis require to be carefully 
stretched on a knitting or other suit- 
able frame). Take great care to allow, 
whatever you use, time to dry before ap- 
plying the liqueur diaphanie. 

All kinds of Screens, lamp 
shades, and glasses, lanterns, etc., etc., 
may be made in this way, as heat will 
produce no effect upon them. The 
transparent pictures are successful, be- 
cause they may be hung on a window 
frame or removed at will, and the win- 
dow blinds are far superior to anything 
of that kind that have yet been seen. 

Instead of Steeping the Designs 
in the transparent liquor at the time of 
printing them, which was previously 
done iti order to show their transparency 
to the purchaser, but which was practi- 
cally objectionable, as the paper in that 
state was brittle, and devoid of pliancy, 
necessitating also the use of a peculiarly 



422 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



difficult vehicle to manage (varnish) in 
applying it to the glass, the manufac- 
turer now prepares his paper differently, 
in order to allow the use of parchment 
size in sticking them on the glass. The 
liqueur diaphanie, which is finally ap- 
plied, renders them perfectly transpa- 
rent. In this mode of operation, no 
delay is requisite, the designs being 
applied to the glass immediately after 
laying on the size, taking care to press 
out all the air-bubbles, for which purpose 
a roller will be found indispensable. 
The designs should be damped before 
the size is applied to them. 

DEC ALCOMANIE.— This recently 
discovered and beautifal art consists in 
transferring colored drawings to glass, 
porcelain, china, wood, silk, furniture, 
plaster of Paris, alabaster, ivory, paper, 
paper hangings, windows, tea trays, oil- 
cloth, and all kinds of fancy articles; 
in short, materials of any kind, shape, 
or size, provided they possess a smooth 
surface, can be decorated with decal- 
comanie ; the immediate result being 
an exact resemblance to painting by 
hand. The art itself is simple and in- 
genious, and while affording agreeable 
occuijation to ladies, it may be made to 
serve many useful purposes, on account 
of the numerous objects which will ad- 
mit of being thus ornamented. 

The Materials employed in 
Decalcomanie are — 1. A bottle of 
transfer varnish for fixing the draw- 
ings. 2. A bottle of light varnish to 
pass over the drawings when fixed. 3. 
A bottle of spirit to clean the brushes, 
and to remove those pictures which 
may not be successful. 4. A piece of 
beaver cloth about nine inches square. 
6. A paper-knife and roller. 6. Two 
or three camel-hair brushes. 7. A 
basin of water. 8. A bottle of opaque 
varnish. 

Instructions. — Thoroughly clean 
and free from grease the article to be 
decorated ; then, having cut off" the 
white paper margin of the drawing, 
dip one of the brushes into the trans- 
fer varnish, and give it a very light 
coat, being especially careful to cover 
the whole of the colored portion, but 



noi- to allow it to touch the blank 
paper; then lay the drawing, face 
downward, on the object to be orna- 
mented, taking care to place it at once 
where it is to remain, as it would be 
spoiled by moving. If the varnish, on 
its first application, is too liquid, al- 
low the picture to remain for about ten 
minutes to set. Moisten the cloth with 
water, and lay it gently on the draw- 
ing which has been previously laid in 
its place on the object to be decorated ; 
then rub it over with the paper-knife 
or roller, so as to cause the print to ad- 
here in every part ; this done, remove 
the cloth, well soak the paper with a 
camel-hair brush dipped in water, and 
immediately after lift the paper by one 
corner, and gently draw it off. The 
picture will be left on the object, while 
the paper will come off perfectly white. 
Care must be taken that the piece of 
cloth, without being too wet, is suf- 
ficiently so to sat irate the paper com- 
pletely. The drawing must now be 
washed with a camel-hair brush, in 
clean water, to remove the surplus 
varnish, and then left till quite dry. 
On the following day, cover the pic- 
ture with a light coat of the fixing 
varnish, to give brilliancy to the 
colors. 

To Ornament Dark-colored 
Objects, such as the bindings of 
books, Eussia leather, blolting-cases, 
leathern bags, etc., the picture must be 
previously covered with a mixture of 
opaque white varnish, taking care not 
to pass beyond the outline of the de- 
sign. On the following day, proceed 
according to the instructions given in 
the preceding paragraph. 

To Ornament Silk Paper, or 
Articles which will not bear 
Wetting. — Varnish the picture with 
the transfer varnish, as previously ex- 
plained, following the outline of the 
design, then allow it to dry for an hour 
or two ; when quite dry, pass a damp 
sponge over the entire surface of the 
sheet, so as to remove the composition 
which surrounds the picture, and 
which may spoil the object. Let the 
paper dry once more, and varnish the 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



423 



picture again with the transfer varnish; 
in about ten minutes, place it face 
downward on the object to be dec- 
orated, and rub it with the paper- 
knife or roller, over the whole of its 
surface. Finally, moisten the paper 
with a wet brush, allow it to remain 
sufficiently long to become moist, then 
etrip the paper oflf. To remove a spoiled 
picture from any object, dip a soft rag 
in the essence, and rub it over the 
surface. 

To Insure a Successful Result, 
care must be taken to give a very light 
coating of varnish to the parts to be 
transferred. When the varnish is 
lirst applied it is very liquid, and must 
remain ten minutes, the best condition 
for transferring being when the var- 
nish is only just sticky, without being 
too dry. 

The Following Designs will be 

FOUND THE MOST ElEGANT AND AP- 
PROPRIATE. —Flowers of every variety, 
bouquets, tropical birds, flowers and 
fruits in imitation of aquatint, garlands 
with cupids after Watteau, and gar- 
lands with birds, domestic scenes, pears 
and cherries, apples and plums, white 
grapes and plums, black grapes and 
peaches, plums and mulberries, large 
bouquet of roses, bouquets of moss roses 
and pansies, bouquets of small came- 
lias, bouquets of wall-flowers and pop- 
pies, bouquets of orange-blossom, me- 
dallions, various subjects, birds' nests, 
Gothic initials and monograms, fleurs- 
de-lis ; borders various. 

FANCY NEEDLEWORK. - In- 
structions in Crochet. — Perhaps no 
kind of work has ever attained such 
popularity as Crochet. Whether as a 
simple trivnming, as an elaborate quilt, 
or as a fabric, almost rivalling point 
lace, it is popular with every woman 
who has any time at all for fancy 
work, since it is only needful to under- 
stand the stitches, and the terms and 
contractions used in writing the de- 
scriptions of the different designs, to 
be enabled to work with ease the most 
beautifiil pattern that ever appeared in 
crochet. 

The crochet hook should be very 



smooth, made of fine steel, and fixed 
in handles. The ^' Tapered Indented " 
hook, which has the size engraved on 
the handle, will be found convenient, 
from its quality, and saving trouble of 
referring to a gauge. 

The marks used in our crochet re- 
cipes are simple, consisting chiefly of 
printers' marks, such as crosses, dag- 
gers, asterisks, etc. They are used to 
mark repetitions. It will be seen that 
wherever a 77iark is used, another simi- 
lar one is sure to be found ; the repe- 
tition occurring between the two. 

Sometimes one repetition occurs with- 
in the other. For instance : + 2 Dc, 

4 Ch, miss 4, * 1 Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, * 
three times, 5 Dc, 4- twice, it would at 
full length be — 2 Dc, 4 Ch, miss 4, 5 
Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, 5 Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, 

5 Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, 5 Dc, 2 Dc, 4 Ch, 
miss 4, 5 Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, 5 Dc, 1 Ch,. 
miss 1, 5 Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, 5 Dc. 
There is another mode of abbreviating ; 
but this can only be used where a row 
has a centre, both sides ol' which are 
alike, the latter being the same as the 
former, worked backwards. In this 
case the letters b, a, are employed, to 
show that in the latter part of the row 
the instructions must be reversed : — b, 
7 Dc, 3 Ch, miss 2, 1 Dc, 2 Ch, miss 1, 
a, 1 Dc (the centre stitch), would be 7 
Dc, 3 Ch, miss 2, 1 Dc, 2 Ch, miss 1, 1 
Dc, miss 1, 2 Ch, 1 Dc, miss 2, 3 Ch,'j7 
Dc. A knowledge of these abbrevia- 
tions is easily acquired, and much space 
is saved by them. 

The stitches used are Chain, Slip, 
Single, Double, Treble, and Long Trebls 
Crochet. 

Chain Stitch is made by forming a 
loop on the thread, then inserting the 
hook, and drawing the thread through 
the loop already made. Continue this, 
forming a succession of stitches. 

Slip Stitch is made by drawing a 
thread at once through any given stitch,, 
and the loop on the needle. 

Single Crochet (Sc). — Having a loop- 
on the needle, insert the hook in a. 
stitch, and draw the thread through in 
a loop. You then have two on the 
hook ; draw the thread through both. 



424 



YOU ask! — r r. L T E T. L ! 



at once. 

Double Crocket (Dc). — Twist the 
thread round the liook before inserting 
it in the stitch, througli which you 
draw the thread in a loop. There will 
then be three loops on the hook ; draw 
the thread through two, and then 
through the one just formed, and the 
remaining one. 

Treble Crochet (Tc), and Long Treble 
(long Tc),are worked in the same way ; 
in treble the thread is put twice ; in 
long treble three times, before inserting 
it into the stitch. 

Square Crochet is also sometimes used. 
The squares are either open or clos 
An open square consists of one Da 
two Ch, missing two on the line be- 
neath, before making the next stitch. 
A close square has three successive Dc. 
Thus, any given number oi" close 
squares, followed by an open, will have 
so many times three Dc, and one over; 
consequently, any foundation for square 
crochet must have a number that can 
be divided by three, having one over. 

To Contract an Edge. — This may be 
done in Dc, Tc, or long Tc. Twist 
the thread round the hook as often as 
required, insert it in the work, and 
half do a stitch. Instead of finishing 
it, twist the thread round again, until 
the same number of loops are on, and 
work a stitch entirely ; so that, for two 
stitches, there is only one head. 

To Join on a Thread. — Joins should 
be avoided as much as possible in open 
work. In joining, finish the stitch by 
drawing the new thread through, leav- 
ing two inchas for both ends, which 
must be held in. 

To use several Colors. — This is done 
in single crochet. Hold the threads 
not in use on the edge of the work, and 
work them in. Change the color by 
beginning the stitch in the old color, 
and finishing it with the new, continu- 
ing the work with the latter holding in 
the old. If only one stitch is wanted 
in the new color, finish one stitch, 
and begin the next with it ; then 
change. 

To Join Leaves, etc. — When one part 
of a leaf or flower is required to be 



joined to another, drop the loop from 
the hook, which insert in the place to 
be joined; draw the loop through and 
continue. 

How to Make a Dress-body Fit 
Well. — All who attempt dressmaking 
should have as many as six different 
size paper patterns, with pleats already 
made in them, so tliat they can cut out 
the body by one, and then tack it to- 
gether and place it on the figure. The 
shoulder and under the arm are the 
principal places to let a body out or 
lake it in. You must measure your 
paper pattern on the party you are 
^oiiif to fit. No amount of pulling it 
will ever make it fit, neither will pin- 
ning it closely to the figure. Let the 
lady keep her dress on while you meas- 
ure your pattern down the shoulder 
seam, under the arm seam, down front 
and back seams, and across the chest 
from arm seam to arm seam ; the same 
with the back. If one pattern is too 
large or too small, try another ; prac- 
tice and industry will soon make you 
perfect. It is a good plan to keep two 
or three sizes made up ready to fit on. 
A clever dressmaker knows very nearly 
what body will fit before she puts it 
on. The taking the size of the waist 
is the least important part of your 
body. Most young beginners do not 
place the bosom pleats right ; the 
pleats should not be carried high over 
the bosom. I^ must be noticed whether 
the bosom be high or low ; if low, the 
length from the seam on the shoulder 
to the bosom pleats will be longer than 
for another body whose bosom lies 
high ; if this point was more attended 
to there would be fewer complaints of 
the dress being tight across the chest. 

To Work over Cord. — Hold the cord 
in the left hand with the work, and 
work round it, as you would over an 
end of thread, working closely. When 
beads are used they must be first 
threaded on silk or thread, and then 
dropped, according to the pattern, on 
the wro7ig side of the work. This side 
looks more even than the other ; there- 
fore, when bead purses are worked 
from an engraving, they are worked 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



425 



the reverse of the usual way, viz., from 
right to left. 

Gothic Edging, in Crochet. 




Materials. — Cotton of any size suitable for the work to be 
trimmed. — For Petticoat, No. 16 — with Crochet-hook, No. 20. 
For coarser articles, No. 4, or No. 8, with a Hook proportionably 
large. 



Make a chain of the length required, 
the number of stitches being divisible 
by 17: if a straight piece, add five more 
chains ; but if intended for trimming 
drawers, or similar articles, close into a 
round, without adding any extra 
stitches. 

1st Eow. — Sc. 

2d Bow. f- 1 Dc, 1 Ch, miss 1, + 

repeat. 

Sd Bow. — Sc. 

4th Bow. — 5 Sc, putting the hook 
through both sides of the Ch of the pre- 
vious row at every stitch, +* 11 Ch, miss 
2, 3 Sc (under both sides of the Ch), * 3 
times, 2 Sc, + repeat for every pattern. 

5th Bow. — 5 Sc, on 5, then on the 
first loop, 6 Sc, on the first 6 of 11 Ch, 
+ 1 Sc, 2 Dc, 1 Sc, on next, 4 Sc, on 
next 4, 1 Sc, on centre of 3 Sc. On 
the next loop, 5 Sc, on 5 chain ; 1 Sc, 2 
Dc, 1 Sc, on the 6th Ch ; 5 Sc, on the 
next 5 ; 1 Sc, on centre of 3 Sc. On the 
next loop, 4 Sc, on 4 Ch ; 1 Sc, 1 
Dc, on next Ch. Turn the work on 
the wrong side : — 8 Ch, 2 Sc, on the 
point of the 2d loop ; 8 Ch, 2 Sc, on the 
2 Dc, at the point of the 1st loop. 
Turn the work on the right side : — 4 



each of the last 3. Miss the 2 Sc, at 
the point of the 2d loop ; and on the 
other chain of 8, 3 Sc, on the 1st 3, 2 
Sc on the next. Turn the work on the 
wrong side : — 6 Ch, 2 Sc, at 
the point of the loop. Turn 
on the right side : — 2 Sc, in 
the 1st; 2 Ch, 2 Sc, in each 
of the next 2 ; 2 in the next 
2. Sc down the chains of the 
half loops, taking care not to 
contract the edge at all. 5 Sc, 
on 5 Sc ; 3 Sc, on chain of 
the next loop ; 3 Ch, draw the 
loop through the correspond- 
ing part of the Sc of last loop. 
Slip back on the 3 Ch ; 3 Sc 
on 3 more chains of the loop. 
+ repeat as often as may be 
required for the number of 
patterns. 

Crochet Border, 1. — This 
border is suitable for a great 
variety of purposes, according 
to the size of the cotton employed ; in 
coarse cotton it will make a trimming 
for couvrettes and berceaunette covers ; 
with fine cotton it can be used for 
children's clothes, small curtains, etc. 




Malerial. — Crochet cotton of any size. 

Make a sufiiciently long foundation 
chain, and work the 1st row : * 2 treble 
divided by 3 chain in the 1st founda- 
tion chain stitch, miss 3 ; repeat from *. 
2d row : * In the first scallop of the 
preceding row, 1 double, 5 treble, 1 
double, then 1 chain, 1 purl (4 chain, 1 
slip stitch -in the 1st of the four), 1 
Sc, on 4 Ch ; 3 So, on the next ; 1 ou chain, miss under these the next chain 



426 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



fititch scallop ; repeat from *. 3d row : 

1 treble in the chain stitch on either 
side of the purl in the preceding row, 
5 chain. 4th row: * 2 double divided 
by 7 chain in the two first treble of 
the preceding row (insert the needle 
underneath the upper parts of the 
stitch), 10 chain, 1 slip stitch in the 
5th of these 10 stitches so as to form 
a loop, 4 chain ; repeat from *. 5th row : 
* 1 slip in the middle-stitch of the scal- 
lop formed by 7 chain in the preceding 
row, 4 treble, 3 chain, 5 treble, 3 chain, 

4 treble, all these 13 stitches in the loop 
of the preceding row, so as to form a 
clover leaf pattern ; repeat from *, but 
fasten the 4th treble with a slip stitch 
on the 10th treble of the preceding 
figure 0th row. In the first and last 
stitch of the 5 middle treble of the 
clover leaf 1 double, 7 chain between. 
7th row: * 1 double in the 2d chain 
stitch of the scallop which is above the 

5 middle treble of the clover leaf, 2 
chain, 1 purl (5 chain, 1 slip stitch in 
the first), 2 chain, 1 double in the next 
chain stitch of the same scallop, 2 
chain, 1 purl, 2 chain, miss 1 chain of 
the scallop, 1 double, 2 chain, 1 purl, 

2 chain, 1 double in the next chain 
stitch, 3 chain, 1 double in the middle 
stitch of the following scallop, chain ; 
repeat from *. 

Crochet Border, No. 2. 




Material. — Crochet cotton. 

On a suflSciently long foundation 
chain work the 1st row: 1 double in 
each chain stitch. 2d row : Alter- 



nately, 1 double, 7 chain, miss under 
the latter 3 stitches of the preceding 
row. 3d row : 1 treble in each double 
of the preceding row, 1 double in the 
middle stitch of each scallop, 2 chain 
between. 4th row : 1 double on each 
double of the preceding row, 1 treble 
on each treble, 3 chain between. 5th 
row : 1 double on each treble of the 
preceding row, 3 chain between. 6th 
row : 1 double in each stitch of the 
preceding row. 7th row : * 1 treble in 
the 1st stitch of the preceding row, 4 
chain, miss 1, 3 treble in the following 

3 stitches, miss 3 stitches, 3 treble in 
the following 3 stitches, 4 chain, misa 
1 stitch, 1 treble, 2 chain, miss 4 ; re- 
peat from *. 8th row : Repeat regu- 
larly 8 treble in the scallop formed of 

4 chain in the preceding row, 1 double 
in the middle of the following 3 chain. 
9th row : * 1 double in the 4th treble 
of the preceding row, 2 treble, 1 long 
treble in next treble but 2, 2 long 
treble in each of the 2 following treble. 
1 long treble, 2 treble in the next 
treble, 1 double in the next treble but 
2, 3 chain, 1 purl (4 chain, 1 slip), 3 
chain stitch ; repeat from *. 10th row : 
* 1 double in the 4th treble of the pre- 
ceding row, 2 chain, 1 purl, 2 chain, 
miss 2 under them, 1 double, 2 chain, 
1 purl, 2 chain, 1 double in tlie next 
chain but 1 of the next scallop, 2 chain, 

1 purl, 2 chain, 1 double in the 2 
chain stitch after the purl of the pre- 
ceding row, 2 chain, 1 purl, 2 chain ; 
repeat from *. 11th row : In each 
scallop of the preceding row 2 double 
(they must meet on either side of the 
purl) ; they are divided alternately by 

5 chain, and by a scallop formed of 2 
chain, 1 purl, and 2 chain, only in the 
chain stitch scallops which join the 
two treble figures work no double, but 

2 chain, 1 purl, 2 chain. 

Wheel and Shamrock Antimacas- 
sar. — As this antimacassar is made in 
separate pieces, it will suffice to thread 
a few rows of beads on the cotton at a 
time. For the same reason, it may be 
made of any required dimensions, and 
it may or may not have a border : but 
if one is desired, it should be of close 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



427 



crochet, with the pattern in beads, and 
a deep fringe beyond it. 

A Wheel. — Make a chain of 8, close 
it into a round, and work under it 16 
Sc stitches. + 9 Ch, dropping a bead 
on every stitch, miss 1 of the 16, and 
Sc under the next + 8 times. Slip 
stitch on 4 of the first 9 Ch. Sc on the 
next 2 of the 9 * 3 Ch, Sc on the 




3faterials. 
Crochet cotton, No. 10, and Turquoise beads, No. 

4th, 5th, and 6th of the next 9 chain * 
all round. End with slip stitch on the 
1st and 2d of the first 3 chain, f 8 Ch, 
Sc under the next chain of 3. f 7 
times. 8 Ch, Sc on 2d slip stitch. To 
complete the wheel, do under each 
chain of 8, 1 Sc, 10 Dc, 1 Sc, dropping 
a bead on every stitch. 

A Square. — 6 Ch, close it into a 
round. + Sc under chain, 5 Ch, + 4 
times, t 1 Sc on 2d Sc, 4 Dc under 
chain, with a bead on each, 5 Ch, 4 Dc 
with a bead on each, under the same 
Ch * 4 times. Slip stitch up the first 
4 Dc. 15 Ch, Sc under 5 Ch of last 
round, 6 Ch, Sc under same 5 Ch, Sc 
under same ; 8 Ch, Sc under the next 
chain of 5. 

Ldsi Round. — 1 Sc, 4 Dc under the 
chain of 5, 2 Ch, 4 Dc, 1 Sc under 
same. 1 Sc, 4 Dc under chain of 6, 2 
Ch, 4 Dc, 1 Sc under same, 1 Sc, 4 Dc 
under chain of 5, 2 Ch, 4 Dc, 1 Sc under 
same. 1 Sc under chain of 8. Do this 



all round, dropping a bead on every 
stitch. The two chains which are 
printed in italics are those places 
where the squares are to be connected 
with the other pieces. It will be seen 
that the last round forms four sham- 
rocks. The centre leaf of each sham- 
rock (coming at the point of the 
square) is to be united to the point 
of another square ; while those at 
the side are to be joined to the 
rounds. 

A bead is dropped on every Dc 
stitch. 

Jewelled d'Oyley— The Ruby. 
— Begin by threading all the beads 
on the cotton ; then make a chain 
of 8 stitches, and close into a 
round. All the d'oyley is done in 
Sc, except the edge. 

1st Bound. \- 1 Ch, 1 Sc on 

Sc, + 8 times. 

2d Hound. — +1 Ch, 2 Sc on 2 
Sc, + 8 times. It will be observed 
that instead of the usual way of 
increasing by working two stitches 
in one, a chain-stitch is made, and 
one Sc only is worked on each Sc. 

8d Bound. h 1 Ch, 3 Sc on 

Sc, + 8 times. 

4:th Bound. \-l Ch, 4 Sc on 

Sc, + 8 times. 
5//t Bound. — 
8 times. 

6th Bound. — 
8 times. 

1th Bound. hi 

+ 8 times. 

\st Bead Bound. \- 2 cotton, 6 

beads, + 8 times. 

2d Bound. 1- 4 beads, coming 

over 2 cotton, and 1 bead at each side, 

5 cotton over 4 beads, + 8 times. 

Sd Bound. \- 2 beads over the 

centre 2 of 4, 8 cotton, + 8 times. 

4fhBound. [-3beads, the first 2 over 

2, 3 cotton, 1 bead, 4 cotton, + 8 times. 

5th Bound. \- 7 beads (the first 

over first of last round), 5 cotton, + 8 
times. End with one bead on the last 
stitch. 

6fh Bound. 1- 6 beads (1st on 1st), 

6 cotton, 1 bead, + 8 times. 

7th Bound. (-3 beads, 10 cotton, 

1 bead, + 8 times. End with 2 beads. 



+ 1 Ch, 5 Sc on Sc, + 
+ 1 Ch, 6 Sc on Sc, + 
Ch, 7 Sc on Sc, 



428 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



%th Round. 1- 3 beads, 10 cotton, 

2 beads, -f 8 times. End with 3 
beads. 

^th Round. h 3 beads, 11 cotton, 

3 beads, + 7 times, 3 beads. This 
round is not perfect. 

lO^A Round. 1- 3 cotton over cot- 
ton, 1 bead, 4 cotton, 4 beads, 1 cotton, 
3 beads, + 8 times. 

lit h Round. \- 2 cotton, 9 beads, 

3 cotton (over 1 bead, 1 cotton), 3 
beads, + 8 times. 

12th Round. \- 3 cotton over 2, + 

7 beads, 5 cotton, 4 beads, 2 cotton, -j- 

8 times. 



17^/i Round. (-9 beads, 1 cotton, 

4 beads, 2 cotton (last over 1 cotton), 
3 beads, 4 cotton over 3, + 7 times. 
Eighth time, 3 cotton on 2. 

18i!/t Round. [-9 beads, 1 cotton, 

5 beads, 2 cotton, 5 beads, 2 cotton on 
1, + 7 times. Eighth, 1 cotton. 

19/A Round. h 5 beads, 5 cotton, 5 

beads, 10 cotton (over 9 stitches), + 8 
times. 

20//* Round. — + 3 beads, 8 cotton 
(over 7 stitches), 5 beads, 5 cotton, I 
bead, 4 cotton, + 8 times. 

2\st Round. f- 3 beads over 3, 10 

cotton (making 1), 5 beads (beginning 




Materials. — 1 oz. ruby-colored beads, No. 2, and one reel No. 16 crochet cotton. 



\Zth Round. hi cotton, 5 beads, 

5 cotton, 3 beads, 1 cotton, 2 beads, 1 
cotton, + 8 times. 

lAth Round. f- 4 cotton (over 1 

cotton, 2 beads), 3 beads, 5 cotton, 4 
beads (the last on last of 3), 4 cotton, 
-f 8 times. 

\bth Round. \- 2 cotton, 5 beads 

(the last on last of 3), 3 cotton, 6 
beads, 5 cotton, + 8 times. 

ICtth Round. h 13 beads, 1 cotton, 

2 beads, 6 cotton on 5, + 7 times. 
Eighth time, 4 cotton only on 3. 



on the 2d of 5), 3 cotton, 2 beads, 4 
cotton, + 8 times. 

22^^ Round. \- S beads on 8, 12 

cotton (making 1), 9 beads, 4 cotton, 
+ 8 times. 

2'id Round. — + 3 beads on 3, 6 
cotton, 4 beads, 3 cotton, 7 beads (on 
centre 7 of 9), 5 cotton, -|- 8 times. 

24//i Round. [-3 beads on 3, 6 

cotton on 5, 6 beads, 14 cotton, + 8 
times. 

25ih Round. — +4 beads (begin- 
ning over 1st of 3), 7 ootton (on 5 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



429 



and 1 bead), 5 beads, 14 cotton, + 8 
times. 

26th Hound. 1-1 cotton over 1 

bead, 4 beads, 3 cotton, 1 bead, 3 cot- 
ton, 4 beads (over last 4 of 5), 13 cot- 
ton, + 8 times. 

27th Round. 1- 2 cotton on 1 cot- 
ton, 8 beads, 3 cotton, 4 beads, 13 cot- 
ton, + 8 times. 

28th Round. 1-3 cotton over 2 C 

and 1 B, 6 beads, 3 cotton, 4 beads, 14 
cotton, -1- & times. 

29th Round. 1-4 cotton, 3 beads 

(the 1st over 2d of 6), 3 cotton, 5 
beads, 16 cotton, -{- 8 times, 5 cotton. 

SOth Round. 1- 9 beads, beginning 

on 2d of 3, 21 cotton, -1- 8 times. 

Do one round of cotton only, and 
then one of beads. 

Border. h 2 Sc cotton, 15 beads, 

2 cotton, 13 chain with a bead on each, 
miss 12, -\- 8 times. 

2d Round. — 2 slip on 2 cotton, -1- 2 
Sc with cotton on the first 2 beads, * 
1 bead, 1 cotton, * alternately 6 times, 
1 cotton, 5 Ch, with beads, 1 Sc with 
bead on 4th of 13, 7 Ch with beads, 
miss 5 of 13, Sc with bead on next, 5 
Ch with beads, -j- 8 times. 

Sd Round. [- 2 Sc with cotton on 

2d Sc and 1 bead, * 1 bead, 1 cotton, 
* 5 times, 1 cotton, 5 Ch with beads. 
1 Sc with bead on 4th of 5, 6 Ch with 
beads, 1 Sc on 4th of 7 with beads, 6 
Ch with beads, Sc with bead on 2d of 
6 Sc, 5 Ch with beads, -j- 8 times. 

4<A Round. 1- 2 Sc cotton as be- 
fore, * 1 bead over cotton, 1 cotton 
over bead, * 4 times. 1 more cotton, 
5 Ch with beads, 1 Sc with bead on 4th 
of 5, 6 Ch with beads, 1 Sc with bead 
on 4th of 6, 6 Ch with bead, 1 Sc with 
bead on 3d of next 6, 6 Ch with beads, 1 
Sc with bead on 2d of 5, 5 Ch with beads. 

These D'Oyleys must be washed 
with white Windsor soap and soft 
water only. When quite clean rinse 
them in fresh water, and hang them 
before a fire, or in the air to dry. 
When nearly dry, pull them out into 
shape. On no account use any starch, 
nor an iron. Beads, when of good 
quality, and properly washed, will 
remain for years uninjured. 



Hint on D'Oyleys. — Experienced 
workers often find a difficulty in know- 
ing the exact termination of a round 
in D'Oyley's, and frequently the pat- 
tern is destroyed by an error in the 
calculation. This difficulty may be 
remedied at once, by attention to the 
following rule : — Take a thread very 
opposite in color to that of your work, 
and only a few inches long. When 
only two or three rounds are done, and 
it is still perfectly easy to see the end 
of the round, draw the needleful of 
thread through the chain of the last 
stitch. Do the same with every other 
round, so that the colored thread finally 
runs in a straight line from the centre 
to the edge. It will save much trouble 
and many blunders, especially when 
working the Jewelled D'Oyleys. 

Crochet k Tricoter. — Take rather 
a long crochet hook, with a button on 
the end. Make a chain as for ordinary 
crochet, leaving the last made stitch on 
the hook to form the first stitch of the 
next row ; this kind of crochet being 
worked backward and forward. 

2d Row. — Put the hook through the 
next loop on the chain to the loop 
already on the hook, and draw the 
thread through, leaving this last made 
loop on the hook. Continue till you 
have taken up on the hook as many 
loops as there were in the original chain. 

BdRow. — Put the thread once round 
the hook and draw it through the two 
first loops on the hook. Thread once 
round the hook and through the last 
loop made and the one next to it on 
the hook. Repeat till all are worked ofll 

4^th Row. — Put the hook through 
the first long perpendicular loop, draw 
the thread through, leaving the last 
made loop on the hook. Repeat till 
all the long loops have been worked, 
keeping all the loops on the hook and 
taking always the loop at the edge. 

5th Row. — Same as 3d. 

This stitch is only suitable for straight 
work.To narrow, leave out the edge loop. 

A chain of 30 makes a pretty scarf 
for a lady. It should measure a yard 
and half lojig, with fringe four or six 
inches long at each end. 



430 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 
Ladies' Comforter in Crochet. 





Materials. — 2]/^ ounces white double Burliu wool, J^ ounce lilac filoselle. 



part of comforter 
(full size). 



This comforter is worked with white 
wool in ribbed stitch, a variety of cro- 
chet a tricoter ; it is edged all round 
with some rows of chain and double 
stitches. These, as well as the fringe 
at both ends of the scarf, can be made 
with white wool and lilac filoselle, or 
only with wool. The pattern is 20 
stitches wide and 120 double rows 
long. Begin the scarf at one end on a 
foundation chain of 20 stitches, and 
work as follows : 1st part of 1st double 
row (forwards). Take up 1 loop in 
every other stitch. 

2d part of the 1st double row (back- 
wards). Alternately cast off 1 loop, 1 
chain. 

1st part of the 2d double row : Take 
up alternately one loop in the pre- 



viously missed stitch of the foundation 
chain, working at the same time round 
the top chain of the stitch in the pre- 
ceding row, and one loop in the next 
long chain of the preceding row. 

Second part of the second double 
row : Cast off together the next loop 
taken up in the foundation chain with 
the following loop, 1 chain. 

First part of the third double row : 
Take up alternately one loop under- 
neath the next chain stitch of the 
double row before the last, and one 
loop in the next long chain of the pre- 
ceding row. Miss the following long 
stitch. Work back as in the second 
double row. This third double row is 
' repeated till the scarf is sufficiently 
long. Work all round the outer edge 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



431 



one row of double stitch with lilac filo- 
selle, then one row of double stitch 
with white wool ; the third row is 
worked again with filoselle, alter- 
nately one double, one chain stitch, 
missing one under the last ; in the last 
two rows insert the needle into the 
two upper chains of the preceding rows. 
The comforter is ornamented at both 
ends with fringe in white wool, the 
upper edge of which may be covered 
with lilac filoselle. 

Instructions in Netting. — The 
beauty of netting consists in its firm- 
ness and regularity. All joins in the 
thread must be made in a very strong 
knot ; and, if possible, at an edge, so 
that it may not be perceived. 

The implements used in netting are 
a netting-needle and a mesh. In fill- 
ing a netting-needle with the material, 
be careful not to make it so full that 
there will be a difficulty in passing it 
through the stitches. The size of the 
needle must depend on the material to 
be employed, and the fineness of the 
work. Steel needles are employed for 
every kind of netting except the very 
coarsest. They are marked from 12 to 
24, the latter being extremely fine. 
The fine meshes are usually also of 
steel ; but, as this material is heavy, it 
is better to employ bone or wooden 
meshes when large ones are required. 
Many meshes are flat; and in using 
them the width is given. 

The first stitch in this work is 
termed diamond netting, the holes 
being in the form of diamonds. To 
do the first row, a stout thiead, knotted 
to form a round, is fastened to the 
knee with a pin, or passed over the 
■Sjot, or on the hook sometimes at- 
Ached to a work cushion for the pur- 
pose. The end of the thread on the 
needle is knotted to this, the mesh 
being held in the left hand on a line 
with it. Take the needle in the right 
hand ; let the thread come over the 
mesh and the third finger, bring it 
back under the mesh, and hold it be- 
tween the thumb and first finger. 
Slip the needle through the loop over 
the third finger, under the mesh and 



the foundation thread. In doing this 
a loop will be formed, which must be 
passed over the fourth finger. With- 
draw the third finger from the loop, 
and draw up the loop over the fourth, 
gradually, until it is quite tight on the 
mesh. The thumb should be kept 
firmly over the mesh while the stitch is 
being completed. When the neces- 
sary number of stitches is made on 
this foundation, the future rows are to 
be worked backwards and forwards. 
To form a round, the first stitch is to 
be worked immediately after the last, 
which closes the netting into a circle. 

Round Netting is very nearly the 
same stitch. The difierence is merely 
in the way of putting the needle 
through the loop and foundation, or 
other stitch. After passing the needle 
through the loop, it must be brought 
out, and put downwards through the 
stitch. This stitch is particularly 
suitable for purses. 

Square Netting is exactly the 
same stitch as diamond netting, only 
it is begun at a corner, on one stitch, 
and increased (by doing two in one) 
in the last stitch of every row, until 
the greatest width required is at- 
tained. Then, by netting two stitches 
together at the end of every row, the 
piece is decreased to a point again. 
When stretched out, all the holes in 
this netting are squares. 

Square and diamond netting are the 
most frequently used, and are orna- 
mented with patterns darned on them, 
in simple darning or in various point 
stitches. In the latter case it forms a 
variety of the sort of work termed 
guipure, now so fashionable. 

Grecian Netting. — Do one plain 
row. First pattern row. Insert the 
needle in the first stitch, and, without 
working it, draw through it the second 
stitch, through the loop of which 
draw the first, and work it in the ordi- 
nary way. This forms a twisted stitch, 
and the next is a very small loop 
formed of a part of the second stitch. 
Repeat this throughout the row. 

The second row is done plain. 

The third like the first ; but the 



432 



YOU ask! — l'll. tellI 



first and last stitches are to be done in 
the usual manner, and you begin the 
twisting with the second and third loops. 
The fourth is plain. Repeat these 
four rows as often as required. 



Use No. 20 mesh for the fancy 
rows, and No. 14 for the plain. 

Stitches in netting are always counted 
by knots. 



Oriental Table-Cover. 




Materials. — Knitting Cotton, No, 4; throe Mc.<he8, 2 flat, half an inch wide, the other an inch 
and a half; and one round Mesh, No. l-l ; :7 skeins Berlin Wool ; three of each of the following colors 
— peach, green, plum, yellow, claret, dark blue, pink, light blue, and scarlet; a large rug needle, and a 
netting-needle. 



On a round foundation of 23 stitches 
with the half-inch mesh, net 2 plain 
rounds. 

Sd Hound. — Round mesh, plain 
netting. 

4fh, 5th, and 6fh Hoimds. — The 
same. 

7th Bound, half-inch mesh. — 2 
stitches in each. 

8th Hound. — Same mesh, 1 stitch in 
jach, missing the first, netting the next 
"stitch, and returning to the missed one 
all round. 

i)th Eound,roundm€8h, 1 stitch in each. 



10/A, nth, 12th, and 13th Bounds. — 
The same. 

14th Bound. — Half-inch mesh, 3 
stitches in each. 

15th Bound, and 21 succeeding 
Bounds. — Round mesh, 1 stitch in each. 

37th Bound. — Wide flat mesh, 3 
stitches in each. 

38//i Boxmd, round mesh. — Net 3 
stitches together, missing the first 3, 
netting the 3 next, and returning to the 
missed 3, continue all round. 

3'dth Bound, round mesh, — 1 stitch 
in each. 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



433 



40<A Round, and 4 succeeding Mounds, 
— The same. 

The top part of the cover is now 
netted, and there remain but the points 
to net. 

With round mesh net 13 stitches, 
and instead of continuing the round, 
return on the 13 stitches, missing the 
last. Continue backwards and forwards 
on these, always missing the last till 
you have but one stitch left on the 
mesh. Cut the cotton and fasten the 
end ; take up the next 13 stitches, and 
make another point, and continue the 
same all round the cover. 

Now commence the darning. Thread 
the rug needle with green wool, and 
insert it in the 5th mesh from the 
centre (which is where the two knots 
are visible in one mesh), and darn 3 
meshes upwards to the right, filling the 
meshes closely with wool ; then in a 
line with the first of these 3 and up- 
wards to the left darn 2 meshes, each 
separately, in order that all the darning 
may lean to the right. 

Having done this there will be one 
mesh left in the middle of the green 
Vandyke, which darn in plum color. 
Darn 6 of these round the centre of 
the cover. Between the lower points 
of each vandyke there will be 3 dia- 
monds, darn the middle one in dark 
blue. 

Now in 12th mesh (where the 3 
knots are seen in one mesh), with 
scarlet darn a diamond of 4 meshes to 
the right; do the same in every 5th 
mesh all round. 

As before, there will be 3 vacant 
meshes between the lower points of 
each scarlet diamond, the centre one of 
which fill with dark blue, and above 
the dark blue spot darn a vandyke of 
4 meshes in claret. 

In the 36th round of netting darn 
close diamonds of 9 meshes (leaving a 
space of 3 meshes between the lower 
points of each), of difierent colors, in 
the following order : — peach, green, 
plum, yellow, claret, dark blue, pink, 
light blue. There are 33 diamonds 
required in the round ; it will there- 
28 



fore be necessary to work these 8 
colors 4 times, which will leave one 
still vacant ; this one may be darned in 
scarlet. 

Miss 3 meshes upwards from one of 
these closely darned diamonds, and 
darn 6 meshes to the right, then 4 
meshes in an opposite direction from 
each point of the 6 already darned, 
thus three sides of a diamond are 
formed; complete the 4th side by 
darning 6 meshes. 

There will be 17 diamonds, which 
may be darned thus : — yellow, dark 
blue, scarlet, green, peach, claret, light 
blue, pink. Repeat these colors twice, 
which will leave one to do ; this may 
be done in plum color. 

This will leave an open diamond of 
16 meshes (4 each way), the centre 4 
of which darn in 2 colors, the two 
opposite each other in one, and the 
other two in a good contrasting 
color. 

There is always a slight irregularity 
in round netting, which will cause the 
first diamond to appear scarcely even 
with the last. This, however, cannot 
be avoided, and is not discernible ex- 
cept on very close examination, and 
does not at all affect its appearance 
when on the table. It will also be 
found necessary to lessen the space be- 
tween the open diamonds, one mesh 
in two instances, as if there were two 
more meshes it would cause an ir- 
regularity in the close diamonds. 

The top part of the cover is now 
finished, and the points only remain to 
be darned. 

Between each point darn a close dia- 
mond of 9 meshes, the lower point of 
which will hide the fastening of cot- 
ton at the commencement of the netted 
point. 

At the end of every point darn an 
open diamond of 4 meshes, and knot a 
tassel in the last mesh of each point 
composed of 4 strands of each color 
used in darning. 

This cover is quickly done, and 
has a very foreign and elegant app<^r- 
ance. 



434 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



Netted D'Oyley. 




Maleriah.— One skein Knitting Cord, No. IG, .)nt ud of MecklenLiirgh Thread, No. 5, and one No. 80; 
three rows of blue Beads (large) ; two Meshes, one flat, nearly half an inch wide, and the other round, 
steel No. 16; one Netting Needle, and one coarse Sewing Needle. 



On a foundation of 18 stitches net 
one plain round with flat mesh. 

2d Bound. — Flat mesh, two stitches 
in each except the last, in which net 
only one. 

Sd Bound. — Small mesh, 1 stitch in 
each. 

4th Bound. — Same as 3d. 

dth Bound. — Flat mesh, 2 in each, 
except the last, in which net only one. 

6/A Bound. — Small mesh, 1 stitch in 
each, missing 1 stitch, netting the next, 
and returning to the missed one all 
round. 

7fk Bound. — Small mesh, 1 stitch in 
each. 

Net 12 rounds more, the same as 7th 
round, 

20lh Botmd. — Flat mesh, net 2 
stitches in each. 



21s^ Bound. — Small mesh, same as 
6th round. 

22rf and 2M Bounds. — Small mesh, 1 
stitch in each. 

Fasten oif, cut away the foundation, 
draw up the stitches tightly, and with 
the Mecklenburgh No. 5 darn the first 
round of meshes closely. Then in the 
13 rounds of small netting darn 1 line 
of diamonds the entire depth of small 
netting, which will be 13 diamonds, 
with Mecklenburgh No. 5, miss 6 
meshes, darn the 7th line of diamonds ; 
continue thus all round the D'Oyley. 
Now miss 2 meshes from the top of a 
darned line, and darn 4 with the same 
thread. Miss 3 meshes downward from 
this, and darn 4 more. Miss 3 again 
and darn 4, repeat all round. 

Thus there will be 3 darned dia- 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



435 



monds of 4 meshes between every 
darned line of diamonds. Thread a 
needle with No. 5, and insert it in the 
mesh at the right-hand corner of the 
centre darned diamond, pass a bead 
into the mesh and slip the needle 
under the thread to the next mesh ; 
before putting in another bead, take a 
back stitch over the thread under 
which you just passed the needle, then 
slip on another bead, and so on all 
round the close diamonds. 

Now with No. 80 do a row of loose 
buttonhole stitch all round the beads, 
taking each stitch in a bead mesh ; 



then do another row of buttonhole 
stitches in the same meshes, reversing 
the stitches, taking one in each mesh 
opposite the one already done, and 
passing the needle every time through 
the loop made in the last row. This 
will fill the entire space between the 
darned lines. 

Darn every mesh of the 21st round 
with No. 5 closely, and in the last 
row knot a fringe about an inch in 
depth. 

Care must be taken that all the 
darning runs the same way, and the 
beads may be omitted if desired. 



Lady's Watch-Pocket, in Netted Embroidery. 




Materials. — One reel Crochet Cotton No. 56; two Meshes, the same as those used in the Netted D'Oyley; 
a Netting Needle; one skein of colored Wool, of any color to suit the drapery of the room; a yard 
of inch-wide Sarcenet Ribbon ; a round of Cardboard ; and a small piece of Silk the same color 
as the Wool. 



436 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



On a foundation of 28 stitches net 
one round with wide mesh. 

•2d Mound. — Small mesh, 1 in each. 

3(f, 4ifh, bth, and Qth. — Same as 2d. 

7th Bound. — Large mesh, 2 in each. 

8//i Bound. — Small mesh, 1 in each. 

9th and \Oth Bounds. — Same as 8th. 

Fasten the thread, and with the 
wool cover the entire outside round of 
meshes with loosely-wrought button- 
hole stitches. This forms the first 
round of the pocket. 

On the same foundation, with wide 
mesh, net 1 plain round. 

2d Bound. — Wide meshes, 2 stitches 
in each. 

Bd Bound. — Small mesh, net 2 stitches 
together all around. 

4th Bound. — Small mesh, 1 in each. 

Do 6 more rounds the same. 

Wth Bound. — Small mesh, 2 stitches 
'a each. 

\2th Bound. — Small mesh, 1 in each. 

\Zth, \4th, 15th, and 16th Bounds. — 
Small mesh, 1 stitch in each. 
Fasten off and work the edge as before. 

In the 14th round darn every alter- 
nate diamond with the wool. 

On a foundation of 18 stitches with 
wide mesh net 1 round. 

2d Bound. — Small mesh, 2 in each. 

'Sd Bound. — Small mesh, 1 in each. 

Do 5 more rounds the same, and 
work the edge as before ; darn every 
alternate diamond in 6th round. 

Take a round of cardboard the size 
of a large watch, leaving about an inch 
above the round at the top, cover it 
with the silk, lay the first piece of net- 
ting flat on it, and stitch it round. 

Now take the second piece and 
Btitch the 5th round of diamonds down 
tightly, rather more than half round, 
8 ) as to make the edge come to the 7th 
round of the first piece. This will 
leave it loose in the centre to form the 
pocket. Stitch the other piece of net- 
ting to the middle of this, and finish 
with a knot of ribbon in the centre. 
Attach a piece double, about three 
inches long, to the top, and add a ro- 
sette and ends. 

Instructions in Tatting, or Friv- 
olity. — The only necessary imple- 



ments for tatting are a shuttle or short 
netting-needle, and a gilt pin and ring, 
united by a chain. The cotton used 
should be strong and soft. There are 
three available sizes, Nos. 1, 2, and 3. 
Attention should be paid to the man- 
ner of holding the hands, as on this 
depends the grace or awkwardness of 
the movement. Fill the shuttle with 
the cotton (or silk) required, in the 
same manner as a netting needle. 
Hold the shuttle between the thumb 
and first and second fingers of the 
right hand, leaving about half a yard 
of cotton unwound. Take up the cot- 
ton, about three inches from the end, 
between the thumb and first finger of 
the left hand, and let the end fall in 
the palm of the hand ; pass the cotton 
round the other fingers of the left hand 
(keeping them parted a little), and 
bring it again between the thumb and 
forefinger, thus making a circle round 
the extended fingers. There are only 
two stitches in tatting, and they are 
usually done alternately ; this is there- 
fore termed a double stitch. 

The first stitch is called the English 
stitch, and made thus : — Let the thread 
between the right and left hands fall 
towards you; slip the shuttle under 
the thread between the first and second 
fingers ; draw it out rather quickly, 
keeping it in a horizontal line with the 
left hand. You will find a slipping 
loop is formed on this cotton with that 
which went round the fingers. Hold 
the shuttle steadily, with the cotton 
stretched tightly out, and with the sec- 
ond finger of the left hand slip the 
loop thus made under the thumb. 

The other stitch is termed French 
stitch; the only difference being, that 
instead of allowing the cotton to fall 
towards you, and passing the shuttle 
dowtiwards, the cotton is thrown in a 
loop over the left hand, and the shuttle 
passed under the thread between the 
first and second fingers upwards. The 
knot must be invariably formed by the 
thread which passes round the fingers 
of the left hand. If the operation is 
reversed, and the knot formed by the 
cotton connected with the shuttle, the 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



437 



loop will not draw up. This is occa- 
sioned by letting the cotton from the 
shuttle hang loosely instead of draw- 
ing it out and holding it tightly 
stretched. When any given number 
of these double stitches are done, and 
drawn closely together, the stitches 
are held between the first finger and 
thumb, and the other fingers are with- 
drawn from the circle of cotton, which 
is gradually diminished by drawing 
out the shuttle until the loop of tat- 
ting is nearly or entirely closed. The 
tatted loops should be quite close to 
each other, unless directions to the 
contrary are given. 

The pin is used in making an orna- 
mental edge, something like purl edg- 
ing, thus : — Slip the ring on the left- 
hand thumb, that the pin attached 
may be ready for use. After mak- 
ing the required number of double 
stitches, twist the pin in the circle of 
cotton, and hold it between the fore- 
finger and thumb, whilst making more 
double stitches ; repeat. The little 
loops thus formed are termed picots. 

Trefoil Tatting is done by drawing 
three loops up tightly, made closely 
together, and then leaving a short 
space before making more. The tre- 
foil is sewed into shape afterwards 
with a needle. 

To Join Loops. — When two loops 
are to be connected, a picot is made in 
the first, wherever the join is required. 
When you come to the corresponding 
part of the second loop, draw the 
thread which goes round the fingers 
of the left hand through the picot 
with a needle, pulling through a loop 
large enough to admit the shuttle. 
Slip this through, then draw the thread 
tight again over the fingers, and con- 
tinue the work. In many patterns a 
needle is used to work over, in but- 
tonhole stitch, the thread which passes 
from one loop to another. A long 
needleful of the same cotton or silk 
used for the tatting is left at the be- 
ginning of the work, and a common 
needle used to buttonhole over bar 
wherever they occur. 

Picots are also sometimes made with 



the needle and cotton in working over 
these bars. 

Edging in Tatting. — No. I. 




Materials. — Tatting cotton, steul shuttle, and a 
purling pin. The size of the cotton must deperid 
upon the nature of the article which the edging is 
designed to trim. As a general rule. No. 1 is suit- 
able for ladies' jupes, children's drawers, and other 
articles made in calico. No. 2 is a medium size, and 
will do for finer drawers, and generally for things 
made in jaconet or cambric muslin. No. 3 is very 
fine, and fit for infants' robes, caps, ladies' collars, 
etc. 

Is^ Pattern. — Begin by threading the 
end of the cotton with a sewing needle. 
Double the cotton, allowing a long 
needleful on the needle ; and holding 
the doubled end between the finger and 
thumb, do 14 buttonhole stitches with 
the needle. The thread can then be 
drawn up tight, so as not to leave a 
loop. Now begin with the shuttle. 

1st Loop. — 12 double stitches, 1 picot, 
4 double, draw up the loop, but not 
tightly, and work with the needle on 
the bar of thread 10 buttonhole stitches. 

2d Loop. — With the needle, do 2 
buttonhole stitches on the thread before 
beginning this loop. 4 double, join to 
the picot of the last ; 8 double, 1 picot, 
4 double. Draw this up like the first, 
and work on the bar 10 buttonhole 
stitches. 2 more on the thread before 
the 

Sd Loop. — 4 double; join to the 
picot ; 9 double, 1 picot, 3 double. 
Draw up this loop rather tighter ; work 
on it 7 buttonhole stitches, and 2 on the 
thread afterward. 

4/A Loop. — (At the point.) 2 double, 
join to the picot, 12 double, 1 picot, 2 
double. Draw this loop up quite tightly. 



438 



YOU ask! — I'll tell 



Work 2 buttonhole stitches on the 
thread afterward. 

5th Loop. — 3 double, join, 9 double, 
1 picot, 4 double, draw up this like the 
third. Work on it 7 buttonhole stitches, 
and 1 on the thread afterward. Slip 
the needle through between the two 
buttonhole stitches after the second 
loop, and draw the thread through, 
allowing for a bar on which 6 button- 
hole stitches can be worked. By doing 
these the thread is brought back to the 
fifth loop ; do one more buttonhole 
stitch on the thread, and proceed to 
the 

%th Loop. — 4 double, join ; + 4 
double, 1 picot, + twice, 4 double. 
Draw it up, and work it with 10 
stitches. Then join across to between 
the first and second loops, as after the 
fifth. 

1th Loop. — 4 double, join,+4 double, 
1 picot, -f twice, 4 double. Take the 
needle across to the commencement of 
the first loop, and on the bar do 10 but- 
tonhole stitches, 9 more buttonhole on 
the thread, join to the last picot, 9 but- 
tonhole on the thread, make a picot, 
9 more buttonhole. This completes 
one pattern. 

1st Loop of the 2d Pattern. — 4 double, 
join to the picot on the thread, 4 double, 
join to the picot of the 7th loop, 4 
double, 1 picot, 4 double. Draw it up 
and work on the bar 10 buttonhole 
stitches, and 2 after. 

"Id Loop.— A double, join to the picot, 
4 double, join to the picot of the 
6th loop, 4 double, 1 picot, 4 double. 
Draw it up, and work it like the 
last. 

The remaining 5 loops are to be 
worked exactly like those of the first 

f)attern. All subsequent ones are done 
ike the second. 

It may, perhaps, be permitted to us 
to observe that tatting (or frivolite), 
besides being very pretty, has the merit 
of wearing extremely well. It requires 
far less eyesight than crochet, and is 
much stronger than knitting, and is 
also (as we trust we prove) susceptible 
of great and elegant variations of de- 
sign. 



Infant's Cap Crown in Tatting. — 

Materials. — Tattiny Cotton, No. 2 ; 
Steel Shuttle, No. 14 ; a very fine Purling 
Pin; and a Reel oif Mecklenburyh, No. 
VI, for the Mechlin wheel in the centre. 

The pattern consists of five loops, ten 
patterns being required to form the 
circle. 

1st Pattern. — 1st Loop. — 3 double 
stitches, 1 picot, 4 double stitches, 1 
picot, 2 double stitches, 1 picot, 6 
double stitches, 1 picot, 3 double 
stitches. Draw it up, leaving a bar 
of thread, on which 8 buttonhole 
stitches can be worked. 

'2d Loop. — 3 double stitches ; join to 
the last picot of former loop, + 5 
double stitches, 1 picot, -f- twice, 3 
double stitches. Draw it up a little 
tighter than the last. 

8d Loop. — 3 double stitches, join to 
the last picot of 2d loop, + 6 double 
stitches, 1 picot, + twice, 3 double 
Draw it quite tight. 

4</i Loop. — Same as 2d loop. 

5th Loop. — 3 double stitches, join to 
the last picot of 4th loop ; 6 double 
stitches, 1 picot, 2 double stitches, 1 
picot, 4 double stitches, 1 picot, 3 
double stitches. Draw it up, but not 
tighter than 1st loop. 

To work the buttonhole stitches, 
take a common sewing needle, with a 
very long piece of the same cotton ; 
slip the needle through the picot, after 
the two double stitches of the first 
loop, draw it out, leaving a short end, 
on which do four common buttonhole 
stitches ; catch up the next picot ; make 
6 buttonhole stitches, 8 buttonhole 
stitches on the bar of the 1st loop, 2 
between that and the bar of 2d loop, 6 
on 2d bar, 2 between that and bar 
of 4th loop, 6 on bar of 4th loop, 1 
before the next : now slip the needle 
through the two stitches after the Ist 
loop, thus forming a bar, on which 
work back 6 buttonhole stitches, then 
1 more between 4th and 5th loops, and 
8 on the bar of 5th loop. Take the 
needle across to the base of the 1st 
loop, and work back 10 stitches ; now 
work 6 buttonhole stitches on the 
thread connected with the shuttle^ 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



439 



catch up the picot, work 8 buttonhole 
stitches, catch up the next picot, 4 but- 
tonhole stitches, catch up 3d picot, 4 
buttonhole stitches ; make a picot, 8 
buttonhole stitches; make another 
picot, 6 buttonhole stitches. 

Now resume the shuttle, leaving the 
needleful of cotton attached to the 
work. 

2c? Pattern. — \st Loop. — Three double 
stitches, join to the last picot made 
with the needle and cotton ; 4 double 
stitches, join to the other picot made 
with the needle, 2 double stitches join 
to picot in centre of the 6th loop of 1st 
pattern (which has already been caught 
up in working with the needle), 6 
double stitches, 1 picot, 3 double 
stitches. 

Id, 3(1, 4th, and 5/A Loops to be done 
as in the 1st pattern. 

Then work the buttonhole stitches 
with the needle and cotton as before. 

For the centre do ten loops thus : 

1st Loop. — Four double stitches, 1 
picot, 6 double stitches ; join to the 
picot at the point of the 3d loop of a 
pattern, 6 double stitches, 1 picot, 3 
double stitches. 

2d Loop. — Four double stitches ; join 
to the last picot of 1st loop 6 double 
stitches ; join to the picot at the point 
of 3d loop of a pattern ; 6 double, 1 
picot, 3 double stitches. 

Sd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, Sth, 9th, and 
10th, same as 2d. These loops must 
not be drawn very tightly. The bars 
which connect them must be button- 
holed, as those of the patterns. 

These ten loops will form a small 
circle, within which a Mechlin wheel 
should be worked with the Mecklen- 
burgh. No. 12. The crown when com- 
pleted should be trimmed with the fol- 
lowing narrow edge : 

1st Loop. — Four double stitches,+l 
picot, 2 double stitches, + 4 times. 
Draw it up to form a semicircle. 

2d and all following Loops. — Two 
double stitches ; join to the last picot 
of former loop 2 double stitches, + 1 
picot, 2 double stitches, + 4 times. 

Draw up as 1st loop, and sew neatly 
round the crown. 



Edging in 


Tatting. 


-No. 


II. 


H 


B 




1 


^mm 


mS 




H 


^m 


iS 


^» 


n 



Fill the shuttle without cutting off 
the thread from the reel, as the reei 
thread is required ibr working the con- 
necting bars ; begin at the edge and 
make the 

*lst Oval of Trefoil. — Work 4 double 
stitches, 1 picot, 4 double, 1 picot, 4 
double. Draw up tight. 

2d Oval. — 5 double, join into last 
picot of former oval, 4 double, 1 picot, 4 
double, 1 picot, 5 double. Draw up tight. 

Sd Oval. — 4 double, join into last 
picot of former oval, 4 double, 1 picot, 
4 double. Draw up tight. This com- 
pletes one trefoil. 

Now put the thread attached to the 
reel over the left hand, and on it work 
6 double, 1 picot, 6 double, this forms 
the connecting bar between each tre- 
foil ; begin again as at *, joining each 
trefoil by the picots. To form the 
upper part of the pattern, work 4 
double, join into the picot iu the centre 
of connecting bar, 4 double, draw up 
tight, then with the reel thread over 
the left hand work 7 double, 1 picot, 7 
double. With the shuttle thread next 
work 4 double, join to the same picot 
as the last made small oval, 4 double, 
draw up tight, repeat from *. 

To form the heading, work a cro- 
chet chain of seven stitches into each 
of the picots of the bars last made 
with the reel thread. 

Edging in Tatting. — No. III. — 
The edge half of this pattern is 
worked with the single thread. 

1st large Oval. — 6 double, * 1 
picot, 1 double, * 6 times, 6 double, 



440 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



uviivf up tight. Leave about the sixth 
of an inch between each oval, and 
work the small oval the reverse way 
of the large one, 4 double, 1 picot, 3 




double, 1 picot, 3 double, 1 picot, 4 
double, draw up tight ; this forms the 
small oval. Leave the thread as be- 
fore, and work the second large oval, 
joining it into the last picot of the 
preceding large oval. Join the smaller 
ones in the same manner to each other. 
To form the upper half of pattern, fill 
the shuttle from the reel without cutting 
off the thread, work 3 double, 1 picot, 3 
double, join into the lower picot of the 
small oval in preceding row, 3 double, 1 
picot, 3 double, draw up tight; with 
the reel thread work 6 double, 1 picot, 
6 double, to form connecting bar; 
make a small oval with the shuttle 
thread as before, joining it into the 
last picot of the former small oval in 
this row. Repeat : make a crochet 
heading as in the former pattern. 

Edging in Tatting, — No. IV. 




This pattern is worked in four rows, 
all with the double thread, i. e., the 



shuttle filled without cutting off the 
thread. 

1st How. — Begin at the small oval, 
* 5 double, 1 large picot, 5 double, draw 
up. With the reel thread work 3 
double, 1 picot, 2 double, 1 picot, 2 
double, 1 picot, 3 double; then with 
shuttle thread work a second small 
oval, 5 double, join into the large picot 
of the first oval, 5 double, draw up. 
Repeat from *. 

2d Row is exactly the same pro- 
cess reversed. 

1st Small Oval. — * 5 double, join 
into the large picot of the first oval in 
the former row ; 5 double, draw up. 
With the reel thread work 3 double, 1 
picot, 2 double, 1 picot, 2 double, 1 
picot, 3 double. 

2d Oval. — 5 double, join into the 
same large picot as last small oval, 5 
double; there are now 4 small ovals 
joined into the same large picot. Re- 
peat from *. 

8d Bow is worked with the reel 
thread. Begin by joining the thread 
into the first picot of last row. Work * 
3 double, 1 picot, 3 double, join into 
second picot of last row, 3 double, 1 
picot, 3 double, join into third picot, 2 
double, join into next picot. Repeat 
from *, 

4:th How. — Join reel thread into 1st 
picot of last row. Work * 4 double, 1 
picot, 4 double, join into second picot, 
2 double, join into third picot. Repeat 
from *. Crochet heading as in former 
patterns. 

Tatting Insertion. 




Join your two threads together and 
make 2 stitches iu long tatting, then a 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



441 



loop and 6 stitches, a loop and 6 
stitches; all in long* tatting. 

Then you commence the trefoil in 
round f tatting : — 5 stitches, join it to 
the loop after the 2 stitches in lo7ig 
tatting, 1 stitch, 1 loop, till there are 6 
loops, then 5 stitches, and draw it to- 
gether. 

5 stitches, join it into the 6th loop 
of last round ; 1 stitch, 1 loop, till there 
are 10 loops, then 5 stitches and draw 
it up. 

5 stitches, join it into 10th loop of 
last round, 1 stitch, 1 loop, till there are 
6 loops, then 5 stitches and draw it up. 
Now take the long tatting thread and 
join closely 6 stitches, 1 loop, 6 stitches, 
join it into the last loop of the last 
round of the trefoil ; 2 stitches, 1 loop, 
6 stitches, 1 loop, 6 stitches, and then 
leave the long tatting and begin the 
trefoil again. 

The other side of the insertion is 
worked in the same way, only instead 
oiviakingiYie loops between the differ- 
ent 6 stitchea of the long tatting, you 
join it into the loops on the opposite 
side. 

To turn the corner you finish a tre- 
foil and make your 6 loops of long tat- 
ting, then draw your thread through 
all the 6 loops of the three last trefoils. 

Instructions in Knitting. — Al- 
though the art of knitting is known 
perhaps more generally than almost 
any other kind of fancy work, still, as 
the knowledge is not universal, and 
there have been of late years great im- 
provements in many of the processes, 
we hope that a short account of all the 
etitches, and the elementary parts of 
the craft, will be welcomed by many of 
our friends ; and most seriously would 
we recommend them to attain perfec- 
tion in this branch of work, because, 
above all others, it is a resource to 
those who, from weak eyes, are pre- 
cluded from many kinds of indus- 
trial amusement, or who, as invalids, 
cannot bear the fatigue of more elabo- 
rate work. The fact is that knitting 
does not require eyesight at all ; and a 

♦Worked with the reel thread, 
t Worked with shuttle thread. 



very little practice ought to enable any 
one to knit while reading, talking, or 
studying, quite as well as if the fingers 
were unemployed. It only requires 
that the fingers should be properly 
used, and that one should not be made 
to do the duty of another. 

The implements used for knitting 
are rods or pins of ivory, bone, or 
steel. The latter are most commonly 
used, and should have tapered points, 
without the least sharpness at the ex- 
tremity. 

The first process is Casting On. — Hold 
the end of cotton between the first and 
second fingers of the left hand, bring 
it over the thumb and forefinger, and 
bend the latter to twist the cotton into 
a loop ; bend the needle in the loop ; 
hold the cotton attached to the reel 
between the third and little fingers of 
the right hand, and over the point of 
the forefinger ; bring the thread round 
the needle by the slightest possible 
motion ; bend the needle towards you, 
and tighten the loop on the left-hand 
finger, in letting it slip off to form the 
first stitch. 

Now take that needle with the loop 
on it in the left-hand, and another in 
the right. Observe the position of the 
hands. The left-hand needle is held 
between the thumb and the second 
finger, leaving the forefinger free, to 
aid in moving the points of the needles. 
This mode of using the forefinger, in- 
stead of employing it merely to hold 
the needle, is the great secret of being 
able to knit without looking at the 
work, for so extremely delicate is the 
sense of touch in this finger, that it 
will, after a little practice, enable you 
to tell the sort of stitch coming next, 
in the finest material, so that knitting 
becomes merely mechanical. Insert 
the point in the loop, bringing it be- 
hind the other needle, slip the thread 
round it, bring the point in front, and 
transfer the loop to the left-hand needle, 
without withdrawing it from the right 
hand. Repeat the process for any 
number of stitches required. 

Plain Knitting. — Slip the point of 
the right-hand needle in a loop, bring 



442 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



the thread round it, and with the fore- 
finger push the point of the needle off 
the loop so that the thread just twisted 
round forms a new one on the right 
hand. 

Purling. — The right-hand needle is 
slipped in the loop in front of the left- 
hand one, and the thread, after passing 
between the two, is brought round it; 
it is then worked as before. The thread 
is always brought forward before be- 
ginning a purled stitch, unless particu- 
lar directions to the contrary are given. 

The Mode of making Stitches. — To 
make one, merely bring the thread in 
front before knitting, when, as it 

f)asses over the needle, it makes a 
oop ; to make two, three, or more, 
pass the thread round the needle in 
addition, once for 2, twice for 3, and 
so on. 

To Decrease. — Take one stitch off 
without knitting ; knit one, then slip 
the point of the left-hand needle in 
the unknitted stitch and draw it over 
the other. It is marked in receipts d. 

1. To decrease 2 or more, slip 1, knit 

2, 3, or more together, as one, and pass 
the slip stitch over. 

The way to Join a Hound. — Four or 
five needles are used in round work, 
Buch as socks, stockings, etc. Cast on 
any given number of stitches on one 
needle, then slip another needle in the 
last stitch, before casting any on it; 
repeat for any number. When all are 
cast on, knit the first 2 stitches off on 
to the end of the last needle. One 
needle is always left unused in casting 
on for a round. 

The way of Joining the Toe of a Sock, 
or any similar thing. — Divide all the 
stitches on to two needles, hold both 
in the left hand, as if they were one, 
and in knitting take a loop off each 
one, which knit together. 

To cast off. — Knit 2 stitches; with 
the left-hand needle draw the first 
over the second ; knit another ; repeat. 
Observe that the row before the cast- 
ing off should never be very tightly 
knitted. 

To knit three stitches together, so that 
the centre one shall be in front. — Slip 2 



off the needle together, knit the third, 
and draw the others over together. 

To raise a stitch is to knit the bar 
of thread between the two stitches aa 
one. 

The abbreviations used are : — K, 
knit ; P, purl ; D, decrease ; K 2 t, 
knit two together; P 2 t, purl two 
together ; M 1, make one. 

Take care to have needles and cot- 
ton or wool that are suitable to each 
other in size. The work of the best 
knitter in the world would appear ill 
done if the needles were too fine or 
too coarse. In the former case the 
work would be close and thick ; in the 
latter it would be too much like a cob- 
web. 

Shells for a Knitted Counterpane. 
— Fine knitting cotton and steel 
needles. Cast on 45 stitches. Knit 
2 plain rows. 

3rf Row. — 5 plain, thread forward 
and 2 together, 17 times, 6 plain. 

4.th Row. — Plain knitting. 

bth Row. — 5 plain, forward 2 to- 
gether, purl 1, till there are only 7 left 
2 together, 5 plain. 

^th Row. — Plain. 

1th Row. — Same as 5th. 

dith Row. — Plain. 

'dth Row. — 5 plain, 2 together, plain 
1, till 7 are left. 2 together, 5 plain. 

lOCAi^ow. — Purl all. 

Continue 9 and 10 alternately until 
four ribs are formed, there will then be 
only 10 stitches on the needle; nar- 
row these in the centre one till onlv 
one remains. Fasten off. 

Brioche Stitch. — This stitch is 
extremely elastic, and is very suitable 
for comforters, polka jackets, as well 
as for the Turkish cushion properly 
called a Brioche. Cast on any number 
of stitches that can be divided by 3, 
knit backwards and forwards. Thread 
forward, slip 1, knit 2 together, and 
repeat. 

vase Mat. — Having cut the round 
in cashmere, line it with strong white 
linen ; procure a small ivy leaf, by which 
cut nine leaves of velvet; brush the 
backs over with thin gum and lay them 
on the cashmere in the form seen in the 



FANCY NEEDLEWORK. 



443 



engraving, then lay the gold cord all 
round each leaf, fastening it down 
with the sewing silk, and passing the 
ends through the cashmere. 



button. Now line the mat with the 
green sarcenet, and sew the cord all 
round. 
This mat may, of course, be made 




Materials. — A piece of white Cashmere large enough to cut a round of 30 inches in circumference ; a 
email piece of ivy green velvet; one skein of gold cord; nine skeins Berlin wool, different colors (all 
light); two rows of pearls, No. 2; uetting-needle and mesh (half an inch wide) ; a little gold-colored 
sewing silk ; a piece of green sarcenet for lining the mat ; and thick green silk cord sufficient to go 
round it. 



Now on a strong thread net 120 
stitches of one color wool, which will 
be nearly the skein, thread a needle 
with white cotton, lift 8 stitches on it, 
pass a pearl on it and tie it, making 
the knot come inside the stitches, so 
as to be hidden when finished. Do 
the same with each skein of wool, then 
cut rounds of buckram one inch in 
diameter, on each of which tack one 
of the skeins of wool already prepared, 
commencing at the outer edge, and 
finishing in the middle with a velvet 



of a color if preferred to white, but 
care must be taken that it is a color 
which will harmonize well with the 
green leaves — pale, pink, maize, or 
peach would look equally well ; and 
if durability be an object, a rich light 
brown may be employed with good 
effect, when the wools chosen must 
also be darker. 

This mat, when made of light colors, 
forms a very acceptable and elegant 
little gift to a bride, its beauty consist- 
ing in its simplicity. 



444 



YOU ask! — j'j.L tell! 
Toilet Cushion. 




MoUeriaU. — A piece of very fine white Swiss muslin nine inches square; a little rose-colored Shetland 
wool; a very fine rug needle ; a half yard of narrow white bi-aid, and one yard of white silk fringe. 



The design (which consists of sprays 
of leaves in the centre, surrounded by 
Vandykes, having a single leaf in 
each), must first be drawn on paper, 
thus: 

Draw a circle 5 inches in diameter, 
in which draw 4 sprays of three leaves, 
each spray occupying the space of one 
quarter of the circle. Let the stems 
incline toward the centre, as seen in 
the engraving. Now draw 8 Vandykes 
round the circle, in each of which 
draw a single leaf to correspond with 
tho.se in the sprays — the leaf running 
to the point of the Vandyke, which 
should be about two inches deep. 

The design being thus prepared, 
place it under the muslin, on which 
trace it with a fine black lead pencil^ 



or a brush, and indigo mixed with 
thin gum-water. 

Now remove the paper, and with 
the Shetland wool chain stitch the 
sprays and single leaves in the van- 
dykes very finely. Take a piece of 
white braid sufficient to go round the 
circle, and with the wool slightly and 
loosely work a row of open buttonhole 
stitches on one edge of it, and run it 
neatly round the circle, taking the two 
ends through the muslin, as it is diffi- 
cult to fasten braid invisibly. Cut 
away the muslin between the van- 
dykes, leaving sufficient outside each 
to form a narrow turning, which must 
be made on the right side of the cush- 
ion. On this turning lay the white 
silk fringe, and run it neatly round 



TOILET CUSHION. 



445 



eacti Vandyke, making the edge 
exactly cover the mark forming the 
outline of the Vandykes. Now make 
a cushion of strong white linen, suffi- 
(dently high to allow the fringed 
jioints to touch the table. The bot- 
tom of it may be covered with rose- 
colored silk, and the top and sides 
with white silk or satin. Fill it 
tightly, but not too hard, and tack the 
circle round which the braid is sewn 
to the top of the cushion, allowing the 
points to fall over. Make a pretty 
knot of rose colored and white ribbon 



mixed, tack in the centre, and the 
cushion is complete. 

It is impossible to describe the chaste 
and elegant appearance of this simple 
cushion when made ; and we feel sure 
our fair young friends will acknowledge 
it to be a pretty specimen of the many 
ornamental and useful articles which 
may be made at very trifling expense, 
both of money and time. 

The cushion may, of course, be made 
to suit the drapery of any room by 
substituting any other colored wool, 
ribbon, etc. 




i /^f/ •< 



Madame Kellogg. 



(446) 



TAILOR DRESSMAKING SYSTEM. 

The Art op Dressmaking. — Advantages op Doing One's Own Sewing. 
— Old-Fashioned Methods Superseded by Practical Systems. — 
HoAV to Cut and Fit. — Useful Charts. 



The sewing-machine has found its way into every household, and in nearly 
every family either the mother or one of the daughters has become an adept in 
its use. The advantages of doing one's own sewing are so marked that nearly 
every woman desires to make at least a portion of her own garments. The 
detailed instructions given in this department will give any intelligent young 
woman an insight into dressmaking which will enable her to follow it as a busi- 
ness, or to save enough in the making of her own wardrobe to provide her with 
rich fabrics and costly trimmings, the luxury of which she might otherwise have 
to forego. 

Advice About Shopping. — A. few words about the selection of materials for 
dressmaking will not be inappropriate. Buy everything needed before the work 
of dressmaking is begun, and be sure to get a sufficient quantity of dress goods, 
for the patterns may not be easily matched afterwards. It is much better to 
have enough goods left over for mending than to run short of material, and 
experience delay and inconvenience in efforts to make additional purchases. 
Thread, linings, buttons, trimmings and needles, while easily duplicated, never 
come amiss, if a quantity is left over for the scrap-basket. 

Tailor-made Gowns. — Tailor-made garments are now in vogue. The 
remarks upon this system, and the instructions and diagrams which follow, are 
by permission reproduced from a treatise on the subject by Madame Kellogg, 
of Philadelphia, Pa., and Battle Creek, Mich. 

The cutting and making of garments for gentlemen have, for many years, 
been regulated by exact systems and mathematical laws, while the same work 
for ladies has almost entirely been done by charts and patterns, based on the 
idea that the only substantial difference in the bodies of women was in the 
"size." The radical difference between the two sj'stems will become apparent 
on a moment's consideration. While the former is scientific, and founded on 
the adjustment of varjang dimensions and measurements in one harmonious 
whole, the latter is subject to being constantly thrown "out of balance " by the 
change of a single dimension relatively to any or all of the rest. 

French Tailor System. — The inventor, after years of practice, in dress- 
cutting by all the old methods, was forced to the conclusion that the "tailor's 
square " was the true basis of accurate work in the cutting of garments for ladies 
as well as for gentlemen, and accordingly has perfected a system by combining 
its use with graded scales, by means of which a perfect fit is assured at the 
hands of any intelligent dressmaker, and in the most expeditious manner. 

This system of cutting is as much superior to the "chart" method of dress- 
cutting as the work of the artistic tailor is to " ready-made " clothing. _ Indeed, 
the relation is very much the same, while the ratio of importance is vastly 
greater, inasmuch as the variation in the female^ form has a much wider range, 
and the demands of fashion and good taste require a better fit in the garments 
of ladies than in those of gentlemen. 

A dress " well made " means something more than good sewing, fine stitching, 

447 



448 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 




or elaborate trimminp;. All these 
ma}' exist, and a misfit will spoil the 
whole. In fact, no amount of good 
work will atone for this one defect. 
Hence no dressmaker, however perfect 
her taste and judgment in other re- 
spects, can give complete satisfaction 
unless her work is based on a correct 
system of cutting ; for herein lies the 
secret of success. 

In introducing the French Tailor 
System to the public, the inventor 
claims that it meets every demand lor 
simplicity, accuracy, economy of time 
and material, and ease of comprehen- 
sion. It is adapted to all irregular- 
ities of form, and is unaffected 
by any change in fashion. It is 
therefore a means of saving time, labor 
and money — three points which en- 
title it to the careful consideration of 
all who would be successful io busi- 
ness. Those who have used this sys- 
tem are surprised to find in it such a 
combination of accuracy with simplic- 
ity, the idea being very prevalent that 
absolute accuracy requires a very 
complicated system of details, which 
is too true of many other systems of 
cutting ; but in this case, accuracy is 
secured by conforming to scientific 
principles, and these, when rightly 
applied, are exceedingly simple. 

Few who call themselves cutters 
realize the true meaning of the word, 
especially with reference to the cutting 
and fitting of ladies' garments. The 
degree of tightness or looseness is no 
indication of the fit, as a lady may 
have a dress which is very snug, and 
another which is very loose, and yet 
both may be excellent fits. On the 
other hand, she may have a tight dress 
which is a nu'xjit in every sense, while 
the same may be true of a loose dress. 

The art of dress-cutting and fitting, 
therefore, does not consist merely in 
regulating the tightness or looseness 
of a garment, nor even the relative 
length of waist, shoulder or sleeve ; 
but in so cutting and combining the 
different parts that when made into a 
garment it shall conform to the shape 
of the person who is to wear it, 
whether loosely or otherwise, without 
wrinkles or the distortion of its various 



TAILOR DRESSMAKINCx SYSTEM. 



449 



parts. That this requires talent 
of no mean order, any observing 
person must be ready to acknowl- 
edge, and any system of principles 
that will assist in perfecting such 
an art will be hailed with gladness 
by those who desire its develop- 
ment and cultivation. 

However perfect a system of 
cutting may be, its use can never 
produce uniformly successful re- 
sults unless the cutter is uniform in 
taking measurements. Two cut- 
ters, using the same system in the 
same establishment, will produce 
varying results if one takes loose 
measurements and the other draws 
the tape tightly. In this particular, 
more than any other branch of 
dressmaking, the exercise of good 
judgment plays a leading part. 
The varying dimensions of the 
human form, the hardness or soft- 
ness of the tissues, the character 
of the material to be used, and the 
purpose for which the garment is 
to be especially adapted, must all 
be carefully considered, and should 
enter into the calculations of the 
one who is to apply the tape line, 
before a figure is put down as the 
basis of the work. Unless this is 
done, success cannot be expected 
with any system of cutting, how- 
ever excellent it may be. 

In regard to the claims of many 
of the so-called tailor systems, we 
will simplyremark thatany method 
which does not employ the tailor's 
square and scales cannot properly 
be called a tailor system- A plan 
of cutting by diagrams and paste- 
board patterns is not and cannot be 
a tailor system, at least until tail- 
ors adopt such a method and throw 
away the square, which they are 
too wise to undertake in the pres- 
ent advanced state of their art. 

The Kellogg French Tailor 
System combines the use of the 
tailor's square with the graded 
scales, and the methods of draftin.ir 
being the result of long study and 
expericTJce, are fully protected by 
29 




450 YOU ask! — I'll tell! 

United States patents, and cannot be infringed upon without violation of 
law. 

How to Measure. — Measurements here given are for a well-proportioned 
form, and used onlj' as a guide for beginners : Bust measurement, 30 inches ; 
chest measurement, lo| inches ; length of waist in back, 16 inches ; under arm, 
8 inches ; length of waist in front, 131 inches ; width of back, 13 inches ; length 
of shoulder, 5i inches ; around the waist, 23i inches ; skirt measure, 40 inches. 

Arm Measure. — From neck to shoulder, 5k inches ; from shoulder to elbow, 
18J inches ; from elbow to wrist, 25| inches ; around the arm between elbow and 
shoulder, 1 0^ inches ; around the elbow when bent, 10 inches ; around wrist, 8 
inches. 

I. To obtain the bust measurement, place the tape line around the person 
close under tlie shoulder blades, and over the largest part of the bust. Take a 
snug but not tight measurement. Great care should be used in taking this 
measurement. If taken too tight, the whole waist will be too tight ; if taken 
too loose, the garment will be too loose. 

2- In taking the chest measurement, have the lady stand perfectly natural, 
then measure straight across the chest from armpit to armpit. 

3. To obtain length of front, place tape line at point of neck and down to 
bottom of waist. 

4. To obtain length of waist in the back, place tape line at prominent neck 
bone and to bottom of waist. (This is a measure that plays a very important 
part.) 

5. Take under arm measurement by placing tape directly under the arm, 
bringing it straight to bottom of waist. This is one of the most important 
measures to be taken. If taken too long, it will cause the dress to wrinkle under 
the arm, and bring top of darts too high. 

6. To take measurement for width of back apply the tape line in the same 
manner as for the chest. 

7. To obtain length of shoulder, place tape line on neck about the same height 
as pi'ominent neckbone, carrying a little back from top of shoulder. The length 
of shoulder can make or mar the beauty of a dress. 

8. Take the waist measurement next to corset, around the smallest part of the 
waist. Take this measurement rather tight. 

9. To obtain size of hips, measure around the hips about 7 inches below waist 
measurement. 

10. To obtain length of sleeve, place tape line same as in taking the shoulder 
measurement. Take length of shoulder, from length of shoulder to elbow, and 
from elbow to wrist. To take measurement around the arm, close the hand and 
bend the arm. Take measure around arm between elbow and shoulder. Take 
this measurement as tight or loose as you wish the sleeve. Apply tape at elbow 
and wrist in same manner. If you wish the sleeve loose at wrist, take the 
measure over the hand. 

To take measurement for a Princess Polonaise, or a tight-fitting wrapper, take 
same measurements as for a basque, and the same rule will apply in taking 
measures for cloaks, except that the measures should be one or two sizes larger. 

In taking measures for a tight-fitting walking jacket, take same as for basque, 
excepting in the waist measure, which should be taken over the dress. In 
drafting, use one scale larger. If bust measure is 34, use 35 inches. 

Hip Measurement. — Measure around the hips 7 inches below waist. Meas- 
ure each i)iece of the front and back draft, 7 inches below line G in diagram A. 



TAILOR DRESSMAKING SYSTEM. 



451 



If the pattern is not as 
large as the hip measure, 
add part of the surplus on 
line V, and the remaining 
part on lines T and W. 
The measure is necessary 
only in tight-fitting gar- 
ments, where no plaits are 
used in the back. 

To Draft Front of 
Tight-fitting Basque.— 
See Diagram A. — In 
drafting, we select scale 
by the bust measurement. 
(In this draft we use scale 
36.) The top of scale is 
where bust measurement 
is printed. The side, 
numbering from 1 to 26, 
is used in laying out the 
waists and sleeves. The 
reverse side of scale, where 
a portion of the alphabet 
is printed, is used only in 
the back on line G, in ob- 
taining space for centre 
of back and waist meas- 
urement. In beginning 
to draft, have the corner 
of square to your left 
hand. To obtain lines E 
and F, place square one 
inch from front and top 
edges of paper, drawing 
line F, length of short 
arm of square, and line 
E, length of long arm of 
square, dotting on line E 
length of back of waist, 16 
inches. To obtain line G, 
place corner of square at 
the 16-inch dot, keeping 
long arm of square on line 
E, and draw line Gr, dot- 
ting on line E length of 
under arm measurement, 8 inches. To obtain line H, place corner of square at 
the 8-inch dot on line E, keeping long arm of square on line E, and draw line 
H, dotting on line H half the width of chest measurement, 61 inches. To obtain 
line I, place corner of square at the 64-inch dot on line H, keeping short arm of 
square on line H, and draw line I. To obtain No. 1 1 for front of neck, place 
scale on line E with top of scale at line F, and dot at No. 11. Place top of 




452 YOU ask! — I'll tell! 

scale at No. 11, and dot at No. L To obtain No. 8 for side of neck, place scale 
on line F with top of scale at line E, and dot at No. 8. Place top of scale at 
No. 8, and dot a.t No. 3. To obtain No. 5, place scale on line I with top of 
scale at line F, and dot at No. 5. To obtain No. 3, place scale on line I with 
top of scale at line H, and dot at No. 3. To obtain No. 25, place scale on line 
II with top of scale at line E, and -dot at No. 25. Place scale on line G with top 
of scale at Vme. E, and dot at No. 25. To obtain line J, place corner of square 
at No. 25 on line Gr, and at No. 25 on line H, and draw line J. To obtain the 
curve portion of line K, place inside curve of short arm of square at top of line 
J, with inside curve of long arm of square at No. 3 on line I, and draw curve 
part of line K. To obtain line L for neck, reverse square, placing inside of short 
arm of square at No. 11 on line E, with inside of long arm of square at No. 8, 
and draw line L from No. 1 to No. 3. To obtain line M for shoulder, place 
point D on dart rule at No. 3, with rule side of dart rule at No. 5 on line I, and 
draw length of shoulder required, 5 inches. (In this draft we are using 5i 
inches. We usually' make front of shoulder from ^ to } inch shorter than the 
back.) Place top of scale at the 5-inch dot, and dot at No. I. Place point R 
on dart rule midway on line M and No. 1 , and draw sloping curve for shoulder. 
To finish line K, place B on dart rule at No. 3 on line I, with rounded or convex 
side at No. 1, and finish drawing line K. To obtain line N, place 19 on dart 
rule at the intersection of lines E and Gr, with rule side at No. 1, and draw line 
N. To obtain line for bottom of darts, place tape line at No. 1 on line N, 
and measure down on line N, length of front, \3i inches. Place corner of 
square at the 1 3}-inch dot and at height of lines Gr and J, and draw line 0. To 
obtain the length and top of darts, place scale on line E, with top of scale at 
line H, dotting on line E at No. 10. Place scale on line J, with top of scale at 
line H, dotting at No. 8 on line J. Place top of scale at No. 10 on line E, with 
end of scale at No. 8 on line J, dotting at Nos. 7 and 15. Place scale on line 
0, with top of scale at line E, dotting at Nos. 4, 9, 11 and 16. To obtain lines 
P, Q, R and S, place point T> on dart rule at No. 7, with rule side of dart rule 
at No. 4 on line 0, and draw line P. Reverse dart rule, and place point R at 
No. 7 and at No. 9, and draw line Q. Draw lines R and S in the same manner. 
To obtain line T, place 3 inches on dart rule at No. 25 on line H, and at No. 25 
on line G, and draw curved line T. To obtain lower part of darts, dot midway 
on line Gr from lines R and S, placing corner of square at this dot, keeping short 
arm of square on line G, and draw line U. Place scale on line U with top of 
scale at line G, and dot at No. 20. Place top of scale at No. 20 on line TJ, dotting 
at No. 3. Place corner of square at No. 16 on line 0, and at No. 20 on line U, 
and draw line W. Place corner of square at No. 1 1 on line 0, and at No. 3, 
and draw line X. Dot midway on line G from lines P and Q. placing corner of 
square at this dot, with short arm of square on line G, drawing line V. Place 
scale on line V, with top of scale at line G, dotting at No. 20. Place top of 
scale at No. 20, and dot at No. 1 . Place top of scale at No. 20, and dot at Nos. 
2 and 7. Place corner of square at No. 9 on line and at No. 1, and draw line 
Y. Place corner of square at No. 4 on line 0, and at No. 2, and draw line Z. 
Place corner of square at the 13i-inch dot and at No. 7, and draw line N. To 
obtain hip curve, place top of scale at No 20 on line U, keeping scale parallel 
with line G, and dot at No. 20. Place point R on dart rule at No. 25 on line 
G, with concave side of rule at No. 20, and draw line T. 

T9 Draft Back of Tight-fitting Basque.— »S'ee Diagram i?.— Place square 
one inch irom top and front edge of paper, drawing line F length of short arm 



TAILOR DRESSMAKING SYSTEM 



453 



of square, and line E length of long arm of square, dotting en line E length of 
back measurement, 16 inches. Place corner of square at tho 16-inch dot, with 
long arm of square on line E, and draw line G, dotting on line E, length of 
under arm measurement, 8 inches. 
Place corner of square at the 8-inch 
dot, with long arm of square on line 
E, and draw line H, dotting on line 
H half the width of back measure- 
ment, 65 inches. Place corner of 
square at the 6j-inch dot, keeping 
short arm of square on line H, and 
draw line I. Place scale on line E, 
with top of scale at line F, and dot at 
No. 3. Place scale on line F with 
top of scale at line E, and dot at No. 
4. Place top of scale at No. 4, and 
dot at No. 2. Place scale on line 
E, with top of scale at line H, and 
dot at No. 10. Place scale on line I, 
with top of scale at line H, dotting 
at Nos. 4, 8 and II. Place scale on 
line H, with top of scale at line E, 
and dot at No. 24. Reverse scale, 
placing scale on line Gr, with top of 
scale at line E, dotting at A, D, and 
at the waist measurement, 23^ inches. 
To obtain line J, place corner of 
square at the 23i scale, dot on Hne 
G, and at No. 24 on line H, and 
draw line J, length of under arm 
measurement, 8 inches. Place the 
inside curve on short arm of square 
at top of line J, with inside curve of 
long ai-m of square at No. 4 on line 
I, and draw curved part of line K. 
Place point D on dart rule at No. 3 
on line E, with rule side at No. 2, 
and draw line L. Place point D on 
dart rule at No. 2, with rule side at 
No. 11 on line I, and draw line M, 
5| inches. Place B on dart rule at 
No. 4 on Hne I, with rounded or 
convex part at 5| inches, and finish 
line K. Place B on dart rule at let- 
ter A on line G, with rounding part 
to No. 10 on line E, and draw line 
N. Place A on dart rule at No. 8, 
with rounded part at letter D on line 
G, and draw line 0. To obtain line P, dot midway on line G from lines and 
J. Dot midway on line K from lines and J. Place point D on dart rule at 
this dot on line K, with rule side at this dot on line G, and draw line P. Line 




454 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



P may be drawn to or from line 0, to change width of back. (See Diagram B.) 
Place 3 inches on dart rule at top of line J, with rule side at the intersection of 
lines J and G, and draw line Q. Place corner of square at the intersection of 

lines J and G, and draw 
line Q. Place corner of 
square at the intersection 
of lines J and G, with short 
arm of square on line G, 
and draw line R. Place 
scale on line R, with top 
of scale at line G, and dot 
at No. 20. Place top of 
scale at No. 20, and dot at 
No. 4. Place point R on 
dart rule at intersection of 
lines J and G, with con- 
cave side to No. 4, and 
draw line Z. Place corner 
of square at intersection of 
lines G and P, with short 
arm of square on line G, 
and draw line _S. Place 
scale on line S with top of 
scale to line G, and dot at 
No. 20. Place top of scale 
at No. 20, and dot at No. 
4. Place point D on dart 
at intersection of lines P 
and G, with rule side at 
No. 4, and draw line Y. 
Place top of scale at No. 
20 on line S, and dot at 
No. 4. Place point R on 
dart rule at intersection of 
lines P and G, and at No. 
4, and draw line X. Place 
corner of square at inter- 
section of lines and G, 
and draw line T. Place 
scale on line T, with top 
of scale at line G, and dot 
at No. 20. Place top of 
scale at No. 20 on line T, 
and dot at No. 4. Place 
corner of square at inter- 
section of lines and G, 
and at No. 4, and draw 
line W. Place corner of 
srpiare at intersection of lines N and G, with short arm of square on line G, and 
draw line U. Place scale on line U, with top of scale at line G, and dot at No. 
20. Place top of scale at No. 20 on line U, and dot at No. 4. Place corner ot 
square at intersection of linos N and G, and at No. 4, and draw hue V. 




TAILOR DRESSMAKING SYSTEM. 455 

To Draft Tight-fitting Sleeve. — *S'ee Diagram C. — Draw line A length of 
long arm of square, and line B length of short arm of square. Place scale on 
line B, with top of scale at line A, dotting at Nos. 8 and 16. To obtain length 
ot sleeve, place 5j inches on tape line (this being the length of shoulder used in 
this draft) on line B, midway from Nos. 8 and 16, bringing tape line at line A, 
dotting at length of elbow measurement 18j inches, and at length of 
wrist 2.5j inches. Place corner of square at the 18j-inch dot, keeping 
long arm of square on line A, and draw line C. Place square at the 
25^-inch dot, and draw line D. Place scale on line A, with top of 
scale at line B, and dot at No. 11. Place scale on line C, with top of 
scale at line A, dotting at No. 4. Place scale on line D, with top of 
scale at line A, dotting at No. 2. Place point E on dart rule at No.^ 
11, with rounded or convex side at No. 8, and draw part of line E 
from No. 11 to No. 8. Reverse dart rule, placing letter A at No. 11 , 
with convex side at No. 16, and draw line F. Place D on dart rule 
at No. 4 on line C, with rule side at No. 1 1 , drawing upper part of 
line G. Reverse dart rule, placing R at No. 4, with concave side at 
No. 2, finishing line G. Place scale on line F, with top of scale at 
line A, dotting at No. 15 on line F. To obtain the size around the 
top of the sleeve, measure the arm sc3'e of waist pattern, adding to 
the measurement two inches to give fulness for sleeve (in this draft 
we use 1 6 inches for sleeve). Measure with tape line from No. 1 .5 on 
line F to No. 11. and from No. 15 on line F to No. 11, and from No. 
11 to No. 8 on hue E, and from No. 8 the length of line B, dotting 
on line B at top of sleeve measurement, 16 inches. Measure with 
tape line on line C from Une G, dotting on line C one-half of elbow 
measurement. 5 inches. Measure on line D from line G, dotting on 
line D one half of wrist measurement, 4 inches. Place scale on line 
C, with top of scale at the 5-inch dot, dotting at No. 3. Place top 
of scale at the 5-inch dot on line C, dotting at No. 3. Place scale 
on line D, with top of scale at the 4-inch dot, dotting at No. 3 on 
scale side of 4-inch dot. Place F on dart rule at No. 3 on line C, with 
convex side at No. 3 on line D, drawing lower part of line H. To 
give more fulness over the muscle of the arm, drop F on dart rule 1^ 
inches below line C. (See Diagram C. ) Draw lower part of line I 
in the same manner. Place B on dart rule at No. 3, with convex 
side at No. 15, drawing upper part of line H. (Tn drawing upper 
_ part of lines H and I, B on dart rule maj' be moved above or below Une 

B^L C, to form a true curve). Place B on dart rule 

B^^^ at No. 3, with convex side at the 16- 

HB^S^nHH^HHHl^MBMB inch dot. and finish upper part ot 
iniliinifiliimnililll ^'^e I. I'lace scale on line H, with 
minnnnnniuuiniiiinnnnniin ^^p ^f ^^.^^^ ^t iine f, dotting at 

DiAGRAJiD. Na 2. Place scale on line I, 

with top of scale at Ime B, dot- 
ting at No. 6. Place point C on dart rule at No. 6 on line T, with convex side 
at No. 16 on line B, drawing part of line E. Finish line E with curve on square 
from Nos. 8 and 16. Place A on dart rule at No. 11, with convex side at No. 
2, drawing running line. Measure with tape line from line G to line H, midway 
from lines C and F, placing the amount, A\ inches, at line (x, measuring across 
to line I, dotting at arm measurement, 1 1 inches. Dot midway from the 1 1 - 
inch dot to Hne I, placing the amount on the inside of line II. Place B oa 



456 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



niniiHii ^ 

iiniiiiinHMi^lB 

BiniHIIIIBB^ 
IIMHIIIIIHH 

JIIIIHIIIIIHH _^ 

IfllMniHIHBIiHH 
HIHinilllBBiHBr^ 

miiMiiiiiHaiHii 

.IIIIIHIIUHBIHil 
fffllHIIIIIHnH 
MfllMlilllHHmil 
JfflHBnillHHHil 
MIIMHIIIIHH^I 

wSnmmjHMMwmwawmm 
rffnmnHiHHHH! 



, Ml 

IfflnBHIIUHHIHI 

TBBIIIHMH: 



■niniiHHHHHigj 

[■■■■■■■■■■HH 

^■■■■■■1 



B~ ■■■■■■■■■■hH 
■■■■I 



-tSmr 



IHII 

B"iSSBBB 
■■■hhS 

{■■■■■» 



!ffi 



■■■■■■■■IHiH 

■■■■■■■■i^i 

■■■■■■■HMH 
■■■■■■■IHIB 

■■■■■■■■iHH 



IEbbbssb: 
■■■■■■■IHIH 
■M— ■BSB BBBgaB 

ShIIHBbbbbsbs 




DlAdRAM E. 



dart rule at No. 3 and at this 
dot, and draw part of line K. 
Place 3 inches on dart rule at 
No. 2, and at upper part of 
line K, and finish drawing line 
K. Draw line J in the same 
manner. 

Hints for Basting.— In 
placing the lining on the dress 
goods, be sure the threads on 
the lining at bottom of waist 
run parallel with the threads in 
the dress goods. Pin the lining 
firmlj'. Do not put your poor 
help at basting. This, above 
all work, should be the most 
carefully done. We consider a 
dress well cut and basted as 
being half made. Use if possi- 
ble thin whale bone, having 
them shaved thin at the top. 
The moih'ste should use her 
greatest skill in making up a 
deficient figure. Much padding 
is often required, and should be 
so ai'ranged as to look perfectly 
natural and not inconvenience 
the wearer. No dress shouM 
go from the hands of a skilful 
dressmaker without an inside 
belt firmly secured to the back 
seams. This will prevent the 
waist from becoming twisted 
and working upward from the 
bottom of the waist. To pre- 
vent the dress from wrinkling 
over the point of bust, you 
should full the lining slightly. 
Always cut out the darts, and 
commence at the top of darts in 
hasting. 

The Worth and French dart 
is especially adapted for fleshy 
jiersons, as it prevents any ful- 
ness around the arm scye. 
French dressmakers use thia 
dart for all figures. It cannot 
be used for an extended gar- 



ment except where drapery is 
used, as it gives too much ful- 
nes.s below the w;iist. To [)revent the darts' bulging at top. before placing lining 
on dress goods, draw the top of darts together in the lining, taking out about 
one-fourth of an inch. 



TAILOR DRESSMAKING SYSTEM. 457 

In cutting a polonaise, which is draped high over the hips, join the side body 
to the fi'ont at about 5 inches from bottom of waist, and for a pelisse or wrapper, 
join at 7 inches from bottom of waist. In drafting for a polonaise, to prevent 
too much fulness in front, lap one side of the lining at bottom of the dart over 
the other side all you can, without drawing the upper part of the waist. Use 
plaits in the back. If you wish plaits to come below the waist line, cut as for a 
plain basque, placing the plaits where desired. 

In using the French Tailor System, no seams are allowed, as we draft from 
actual measurement, and all seams must be allowed except in neck and arm 
scye. All using this perfect system of dress-cutting should use in connection 
one of our double adjustahle tracing wheels, as you can trace the seams for cut- 
ting and basting at the same time, thus giving a uniform width of welts, which 
in basting is invaluable. 

The rule made use of in the Kellogg French Tailor System is represented in 
Diagram D, on page 455. 

The scale used by Madame Kellogg is illustrated in Diagram E, on page 456. 

The Divided Skirt. — This garment is becoming better known, and manj' 
ladies are anxious to know something of it, as its promoters declare it to be 
easier to walk in than the ordinary drawers and skirts ; and at the present day 
women eagerly seize upon any help in the way of lighter skirts. The garment 
has been issued by three pattern houses, and is for sale at all of the large under- 
wear establishments under the name of " divided skirt" or "bifurcated skirt." 
At the Dress-Reform Association — who really brought it into notice — persons 
are advised to make the first garment, worn in place of drawers, of muslin, cam- 
bric or surah — the two former finished with lace or embroidery, and the latter 
having a feather-stitched hem. It requii'es five yards of 27-inch goods, and 
consists of two pieces shaped similarly to drawer legs, only each is 50 inches 
around at the lower edge, and slopes very little to the yoke, which has a deep 
point in front and is narrow in the back, fastening in front. The top of the 
seam may be closed or left open, as desired. Over this skirt, or drawers, the 
originators advise one of flannel and one of surah, both sewed to one yoke, made 
just like this, only longer, to act as the petticoats ; then comes the dress skirt. 
Ready-made, the two latter are $12, and the first one, if of surah, is $7. 
Another reform garment combines the divided skirt and corset-cover. Any one 
wishing to try this mode of dress will find the garment easy to make, with a 
pattern as a guide, and whether the st}'le is a comfortable one to wear is a ques- 
tion that each lady may easily determine for herself 

Remodeling Gowns. — The making over of old dresses is an important part 
of household economy, and it requires even moi'e tact to make a partially worn 
dress appear well when made over, than to fashion a new gown. Half- worn 
skirts after being put in order should be worn in summer with loose blouses or 
fancy jacket basques. Brighten dull, black dresses with full sleeves, collar and 
yoke of red or blue tartan surah, cut on the bias. A tapering V-shaped vest 
will become short-waisted people. 

Dresses for Children. — Let the clothes of the little ones be plain, but of as 
durable material as your purse will warrant. Do not make a sad-faced child 
look more sorrowful by putting on too sombre colors. Give tapering eflCects to a 
stout little figure. Blouse suits of outing flannel will be appropriate for sum- 
mer attire. The dry goods stores abound with pretty patterns of cheap light- 
weight goods for summer wear, and with a small sum of money a mother 
by doing her own sewing may provide a child with many dainty gowns. 



458 YOU ask! — I'll tell! 

The winter dresses need not be so numerous, as they will not be so quickly 
soiled. 

Neatness in Dress. — The most perfect neatness in dress is that of the demure 
Quakeress or the gentle Sister of Charity. They have made the cleanliness, 
next to godliness, possess a certain coquetry that is as attractive as it is quiet. 
The most beautiful dress in the world becomes, when out of order, unbeautiful. 
And the finest lace in a ragged condition is on a par with the commonest of 
cottons that is whole. Neatness is one of the leading feminine virtues, and an 
untidy girl need never expect to be treated with as much consideration as is she 
who is always just right. Dress undoubtedly has a great influence on the mind, 
and as the poor little Russian girl wrote in her diary, "I cannot understand how 
a woman who goes about with her hair in papers, cold cream on her face and a 
dirty gown can expect to keep her husband," so it may be taken for granted 
that the girl whose skirt is torn, whose unmended bodice is hidden under a 
fancy wrap, whose bonnet is just pinned together and whose ripped gloves are 
hidden in the mufi", can never be quite right at heart. She is a deception in one 
way and she is very apt to become one in another. It only takes a minute to 
sew on the loose braid, not all of an hour to mend the bodice, a half an hour to 
brush the American soil from the skirt, a little time to sew up the gloves and 
behold a feeling of security comes over your body and extends itself to your 
manners. No woman can be at her ease mentally whose clothes have reached 
the rag-tag and bobtail condition. And no woman can wear dirty finery and be 
self-respecting. Better a thousand times just have the one neat dress, wear it 
day in and day out, know that it is brushed and in good order, and be happy. If 
I were a man I would pick out for my wife the woman who understood the 
value of personal neatness, which is personal sweetness. 



A BRIEF AND PRACTICAL 
TREATISE UPON THE HORSE. 

ARRANGED AND WRITTEN IN SO SIMPLE A MANNER THAT THl 

MOST UNSKILLED PERSON MAY SUCCESSFULLY TREAT AND 

OVERCOME MANY OF THE COMMON COMPLAINTS 

THAT ARE LIABLE TO ATTACK THAT MOST 

USEFUL OF ANIMALS — THE HORSE. 



POINTS WHICH SHOULD BE REGARDED IN BREEDING. 



This very important subject is too 
often neglected. In breeding, a com- 
mon mistake is often made, that mares 
are bred from after they become useless 
for work, regardless of hereditary dis- 
eases which may be transmitted to 
their offspring. It should be remem- 
bered that one of the characteristic 
laws of life is the reproduction in kind, 
— "like begets like." 

Both parents should be selected with 
reference to their individual points of 
excellence, and also that the points of 
one are adapted to the points of the 
other ; although both may be excellent 
individually, the points which charac- 
terize one may actually counteract 
those of the other ; but if defects exist, 
the breeder should be sure that it is 
merely accidental, and not natural. 

None but sound parents should be 
bred from (accidents, of course, are not 
to be regarded as unsoundness). Both 
parents should be free from any in- 
firmity relative to a vicious temper or 
bad disposition ; although the points 
of excellence in one may sometimes 
counteract the points in the other rel- 
ative to that defect. G reat care should 
be exercised that the same defect does 
not exist in both. 

Some knowledge of the parentage 
459 



of the sire and dam is therefore indis- 
pensable. 

For ordinary business purposes, the 
best form of a mare to breed from is 
a short-legged beast, with a deep and 
roomy chest, wide hips, and so built in 
every way as to indicate a robust ani- 
mal, with a strong constitution. Al- 
ways avoid, when possible, selecting a 
mare for breeding purposes which has 
ringbone, spavin, or any disease which 
will render the offspring liable to be 
afflicted with the same by hereditary 
descent. 

The " breed " should be taken into 
consideration, also. If it is desired to 
raise a cari-iage-beast, select a mare 
with a good animated countenance, 
sprightly, not too nervous nor too slug- 
gish, but with a general muscular 
structure. The head of the brood- 
mare is a point which should be al- 
ways regarded ; for a mare that has a 
large head, with a dull, stupid counte- 
nance, will not breed a good foal, un- 
less it might be from a very sprightly, 
ambitious horse. The shoulder-blade 
should be wide and long, extending 
nearly to the top of the withers, and 
so well covered with muscle as not to 
present any undue prominence. 

The neck should come out from the 



4fi0 



A TREATISE UPON THE HORSE. 



top of the withers, and not low down ; 
the fore-leg should be perpendicular, 
so that the point of the shoulder and 
the toe will be in a right line ; the foot 
should be sound, and of good, symmet- 
rical shape. 

The hips should be long, oval, and 
broad ; the hock-joint should be well 
formed, and not of the " cow-hock " or 
"sickle-hock" kind. 

In selecting a stallion, the rules 
which we have already given should 
be observed, remembering that com- 
pactness is quite essential, so that 
much goodness and strength are con- 
densed into a small space. The shoul- 
der should be well back, with the 
shoulder-blade lying obliquely ; but 



when it is desired to raise a slow, 
draught-horse, a large stallion should 
be selected, with upright shoulders. 

In summing up the whole matter, 
we would say, if you would be success- 
ful in breeding, do not breed into the 
same family and blood, but select a 
horse of different blood, unless it 
should be eight or ten generations 
removed. 

Avoid using a horse which is defect- 
ive in any particular, when the mare 
has the same defect, but select one as 
near perfect as possible in that point. 
Do not breed small mares with very 
large horses, for there should be mutual 
adaptation in size and form, as we have 
before stated. 



PRACTICAL POINTS IN REGARD TO FOOD. 



No doubt, the majority of diseases 
contracted by the horse are due to the 
improper manner of feeding; no atten- 
tion being j)aid to the age, variety of 
work, or constitution. The impropriety 
of such a course is readily to be seen. 

Bad Hay is alw^ays dear, no matter 
at what price it is purchased ; not con- 
taining the proper nourishment, the 
horse soon loses its vitality. 

An old horse would do better fed on 
■chaff than on hay, being better able 
to masticate and digest it. 

A horse should not be fed upon grass 
or hay alone, especially while under 
hard work. Never give damaged corn, 
as it is very apt to produce inflamma- 
tion of the intestines. 

Chopped hay containing a tea- 
spoonful of salt dissolved in a little 
water, renders it more digestible, and 
is very acceptable to the horse. 

For an ordinary coach-horse, from 
four to six quarts of good oats, with 
seventeen to nineteen pounds of good 
hay, are sufficient. For extra work, he 



should have more of each; for less, ia 
like proportion. 

Corn and oats are the very best food 
for a horse when he is worked hard ; 
but if not, more hay should be given, 
on account of the corn and oats sup- 
plying more material for muscular 
force than any other kind of food ; 
hay supplies very little. 

The horse should be given a pailful 
of water morning and evening; yet, 
what is much better, a half pailful 
four times during the day. 

A horse should never be worked nor 
driven hard directly after eating or 
drinking, as it interferes with diges- 
tion. 

Never drive a horse, after he refuses 
food or drink, until he gets rested. 

Never feed nor water the horse when 
he is overheated. Walk him about 
until he is cooled off; then groom him 
down with a handful of straw, and 
then with comb and brush ; rub the 
legs well with the hand. When cool, 
give him his grain. 



DISEASES OF THE HORSE. 



Abdominal Dropsy is due, in most 
cases, to an existing inflammation of 
the bowels of a chronic character. 

Symptoms. — A hard, wiry pulse, dry 



mouth, pale condition of the mem- 
branes, drooping head, great thirst, no 
appetite, is weak, a constant disposi- 
tion to lie down, great depression. 



YOU ask! — i'll tell! 



461 



Sudden turning around or upon press- 
ing the abdomen causes the animal to 
groan ; the abdomen large, yet the 
horse is very thin in flesh, constipated 
and hide-bound, and one of the legs is 
sometimes swollen. 

Treatment. — Make no delay. After 
deciding the condition, administer the 
following, night and morning: Sul- 
phate Quinine, 10 grains ; Extract of 
Belladonna, 20 grains ; Iodide of Iron, 
35 grains ; Strychnia, ^ grain. Mix 
altogether, and give at a single dose. 
Then take 5 ounces of Tincture of Io- 
dine, 2 ounces of Croton Oil ; mix to- 
gether, and apply by rubbing upon 
different parts of the abdomen, chang- 
ing your position when the parts be- 
come sore. Many cases are incurable. 

Bots. — The stomach of the horse 
appears to be a natural incubator of 
the Bot-Fly. The .eggs, after having 
made their abode in the stomach for a 
year, then suddenly let go, for they 
have undergone a change known as 
the chrysalis (that is the form of the 
butterfly just previous to the develop- 
ment of its wings). Being thrown off" 
with the dung, in a few days it will 
have wings, and begin at once to fly 
around, depositing its eggs upon the 
horses, to undergo the same change. 
There seems to be two varieties of the 
fly infesting the stomach and funda- 
ment ; the Bots that affect the stomach 
is caused by the eggs laid upon the 
fore-legs of the horse whilst the horses 
are out at pasture during the summer 
months. 

Symptoms. — The horse looks lean, 
with a poor, unhealthy looking coat, 
soon after being turned to pasture. 

The condition of the horse should 
be attended to at once. The animal 
must be toned up in order to overcome 
the exhausting effects of the fly. To 
expel the Bot or destroy the egg seems 
to be almost impossible. The best 
tonic to give the horse is the follow- 
ing; it greatly improves the general 
condition : Powdered Gentian, \ 
pound ; Powdered Copperas, ^ pound ; 
Powdered Fenugreek, | pound ; Pow- 
dered Elecampane, \ pound. Mix all 



thoroughly together; give a heaping 
tablespoonful once a day. 

The Fundament Bot— This is 
caused like the Stomach Bot; but 
instead of the eggs being deposited on 
the legs, they occur upon the lips, also 
around the rectum, occasionally around 
the root of the tail and anus. 

Treatment. — Linseed Oil injections, 
or tobacco smoke, have a good effect. 

Bowels, Inflammation of. —The 
prominent symptom is great pain in 
the belly. Unlike colic, the pain does 
not seem to have any intermission 
whatever, but one continued pain. 
The animal rolls or paws with an ap- 
pearance of general nervous disorder, 
and continually moving about. Among 
the more prominent features are cold 
legs and ears, belly painful and tender 
on pressure, the nose and upper lip are 
thrown upward in a singular manner. 

Common Causes. — Drinking cold 
water when the body is overheated, 
exposure, hard driving, diarrhoea, etc. 
In a horse predisposed to the disorder, 
any of the above conditions would be 
liable to bring it on. 

Treatment. — If due to constipation, 
give about a quart of raw Linseed Oil, 
with 5 or 6 drops of Croton Oil if nec- 
essarj'. If due to severe or too much 
purging, give an ounce and a half of 
Laudanum in half a pint of water. 

Bronchitis. — This disease is due to 
an inflammation of the air-passages of 
the lungs. It is very common among 
horses, and is often mistaken for in- 
flammation of the lungs, distempers, 
and colds. 

General Symptoms. — The disease be- 
gins with a chill, then fever, harsh 
cough, labored breathing, mouth hot 
and dry, with loss of appetite. In the 
course of a day or so a discharge from 
the nose will be noticed. 

Treatment. — Give 15 or 20 drops of 
Tincture of Aconite Root ; repeat this 
dose every four hours until six doses 
have been taken, which will in inost 
cases have removed the fever. The 
horse should be allowed plenty of cold 
water to drink. I do not like the idea 
of bleeding, as it is more likely to do 



462 



A TREATISE UPON THE HORSE. 



harm than good. The fever having 
subsided (generally about the second 
day), the following powders will do a 
great deal of good: Take Powdered 
Licorice Root, Powdered Fenugreek, 
and Powdered Gentian, 2 ounces of 
each. Mix, and divide in six pow- 
ders ; give in feed two or three times a 
day. 

Colic is a very common and danger- 
ous disorder. It is divided into two 
varieties — spasmodic and flatulent, or 
wind colic. Spasmodic colic, as its 
name implies, is of a spasmodic char- 
acter, and will, in severe cases, or 
when not suddenly checked, run into 
inflammation of the bowels, causing 
speedy death. It is caused by drink- 
ing cold water while in a heated con- 
dition, improper or unwholesome food, 
costiveness, undue amount of food, 
etc. 

Symptoms. — The horse evinces great 
pain, shifting his position almost con- 
stantly, manifesting a great desire to 
lie down. In a few minutes these 
symptoms pass off", and the horse is 
easy for a short time, when they return 
with greater severity than at first, and 
so increasing until the horse is unable 
to be kept upon his feet. Turning 
around in a bewildered condition, he 
looks around to his flank, generally at 
the right side, as though to indicate 
the seat of the disease ; he scrapes the 
ground with his forward foot, and will 
almost strike nis belly with his hind 
foot. The horse kicks and rolls and 
heaves at the flanks, seeming greatly 
excited, acting as though he wanted to 
make water, which he cannot do on 
account of the spasm of the urethra. 
This symptom need not be treated, for, 
as soon as the animal is relieved of the 
colic, he will pass his water all right, 
therefore follow the treatment pre- 
scribed, and relieve the colic as soon 
as possible. As the disease advances, 
the horse will frequently throw him- 
self down with force, look around at 
his sides, and sometimes snap with 
his teeth, striking upward with his 
hind feet, as they do in cases of in- 
testinal inflammation of the bowels. 



Difference of Symptoms between Colic 
AND Inflammation of the Bowels. 

Colic. — The attack is sudden ; in- 
tervals of rest; the pulse nearly the 
same in the early stage of the disease ; 
rubbing belly gives relief; ears and 
legs of an even motion gives relief' 
strength scarcely aflected. 

Inflammation of Bowels. — Symptoms 
come on gradually ; the pain is con- 
stant; the pulse small and quickened, 
and too feeble to be felt in many 
cases; belly quite tender and sore to 
the touch ; ears and legs cold ; motion 
increases pain ; strength rapidly fail- 
ing*. 

Treatment. — Relieve the pain by 
giving one ounce of Sulphuric Ether, 
two ounces of Tincture of Opium (Lau- 
danum), and a pint of raw Linseed Oil ; 
and if not relieved in an hour, repeat 
the dose. If there is not relief after 
the second dose is given, some recom- 
mend bleeding from 6 to 10 quarts of 
blood from the neck vein. But I 
think that it is rarely necessary to do 
this. Walk the horse about occasion- 
ally in order to excite the bowels to 
action. 

The following is a very good mix- 
ture : Take Aromatic Spirits of Am- 
monia, 1 pint; Sulphuric Ether, 1 pint; 
Sweet Spirits of Nitre, 1 pint and a 
half; Gum Opium (in fine powder), 
4 ounces ; Gum Camphor, 4 ounces ; 
Assafcetida, 4 ounces. Mix altogether 
and shake frequently for a fortnight; 
strain through flannel and it will be 
ready for use. Dose — a tablespoon ful 
in a little water every half hour. In 
very severe cases, a larger dose may be 
given. In certain cases of acidity, a 
tablespoonful of saleratus mixed with 
a pint of milk is an excellent remedy. 

Flatulent or Windy Colic. — In 
this form of the afiectiou, the animal ia 
quite uneasy. His head droops, ex- 
hibiting some of the general symptoms 
of spasmodic colic before there is any 
enlargement of the belly, and partic- 
ularly after ; for as soon as the belly 
becomes swollen, pawing commences, 
although not so violent as in the spas- 
modic variety. There is not so much 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



463 



rolling and kicking. The horse is not 
BO apt to move about. If the disease 
is not checked, the belly increases in 
size, the animal becoming very rest- 
less. 

Treatment. — A horse should not be 
bled in flatulent colic ; always use an 
injection first. If any gas or wind 
come away, the animal soon recovers ; 
but if there be no relief from the in- 
jection, give remedies as recommended 
for spasmodic colic. Let the horse be 
kept moving around quietly until the 
medicine has time to act, in order to 
prevent the horse falling, which might 
cause a rupture of the diaphragm ; an 
action which would prove certainly 
fatal. 

Debility. — Debility is a condition 
induced by many causes ; it usually 
follows other diseases. For this reason, 
anything which has a tendency to re- 
duce the power or strength of the 
horse should be avoided, especially iu 
disorders of the chest and lungs. 

The General Symptoms of debility 
are, thickening or swelling of the 
legs, sheath, abdomen, and breast ; thn 
horse being weak, and staggering ay 
he walks. 

Bleeding in treating disease, insuf- 
ficient or improper food given to the 
sick horse when it should have been 
supported by wholesome and nourish- 
ing food, will induce the disease. 

Treatment. — Rest, and give tonic 
powders recommended under the head 
of Bots once or twice a day, with a 
liberal amount of good feed, and allow 
the animal to fully recover before put- 
ting to hard work. 

Diarrhcea. — When the disease is 
not attended with pain, griping, or 
pawing, as in colic, no treatment be- 
comes necessary ; but should it con- 
tinue, and the horse show signs of pain 
or colic, there are reasons to suspect 
the presence of some irritating poison 
retained in the bowels, which does 
not pass off with the excrement. 

Treatment. — The first thing to do 
is to relieve the pain. Give 20 drops 
of Tincture of Aconite Root in a little 
water ; then follow with a powder, as 



given below, every three hours until 
the horse is better. Take prepared 
Chalk, 5 drachms ; Catechu pulverized, 
1 drachm ; powdered Opium, 10 grains. 
Mix, and give as stated above, and 
allow the horse to have plenty of good 
cold water to drink. When diarrhoea 
is better, give bran mash for a few 
days ; add a little ground flaxseed, if 
convenient. 

Dysentery (Acute). — Owing to 
the' extreme length and size of the 
intestines of the horse, any disease 
within them becomes a very serious 
affair. 

Cause. — Dysentery of the acute 
form is usually produced by taking 
some irritating substance into the 
stomach, such as croton oil and aloes, 
which produces an inflammatory pur- 
gation, or from improperly applied 
poisonous drugs, such as tartar emetic, 
arsenic, etc., any of these substances 
being readily eaten with the grain. 
Persons not knowing the doses of 
poisonous drugs should never venture 
to give them. 

The Symptoms are rather obscure at 
the commencement, as is usual in 
nearly all the disorders of the intes- 
tines. There is pain in the abdomen. 
The pain may be slight at first, or it 
may be so violent as to be confounded 
with the pains of colic. The animal 
is always thirsty, with an offensive 
stench. 

Treatment. — Near about the same 
as for Diarrhoea, with larger doses of 
opium when pain is violent. Keep 
horse and stable clean ; do not be con- 
cerned about the bowels if they do not 
move at all for a few days. 

Distemper. — Distemper, sometimes 
called Strangles, is a peculiar form of 
sore throat, characterized by swelling 
between the bones of the lower jaw, 
terminating in an abscess, caused by a 
specific poison in the blood ; few horses 
escaping its baneful ravage. 

Treatment. — A great difference of 
opinion prevails regarding the treat- 
ment of this afffection, some recom- 
mending poultices, while others forbid 
it, etc. The following plan is aaid to 



4G4 



A TREATISE UPON THE HORSE. 



be as good as any. Give grass or soft 
feed (very little medicine should be 
given) ; hasten suppuration with warm 
poultices, or some prefer blistering ; 
the appetite returns when the abscess 
breaks or is opened. 

Epizootic. — An epidemic disease 
affecting many animals at the same 
time. Originates in one common cause. 
Without going into any further details 
upon the disease, I will here lay down 
a remedy which experience has proved 
to be the very best. Take of Powdered 
Licorice, 1 pound; Elecampane, 1 
pound; Powdered Fenugreek, IJ 
pounds ; Powdered Gentian, ^ pound ; 
Powdered Anise Seed, J pound ; Gin- 
ger, J pound ; Black Antimony, f 
pound; Saltpetre, J pound; Sulphur, 
i pound ; Epsom Salts, ^ pound ; Rosin, 
i pound ; Hard Wood Ashes, J pound ; 
Copperas, J pound. Mix altogether 
well, and give a tablespoonful three 
times a day at first, and then only 
twice a day. This cured every horse 
to which it was administered. 

Founder. — This disease arises from 
an inflammation of the sensitive lam- 
ina of the foot, of which there are two 
kinds, acute and chronic ; the latter 
being a long continued condition of 
the former. The acute form is readily 
cured, if properly treated; but the 
chronic variety is generally considered 
incurable; yet it can be relieved very 
much. 

Causes. — Permitting the horse to 
drink when overheated and tired from 
overwork ; standing in draughts while 
warm ; long and hard drives over hard, 
dry roads, etc. 

Symptoms. — The horse may be no- 
ticed standing upon his heels, with 
forefeet and legs stretched apart as far 
as he can get them, in order to throw 
the weight off them as much as possi- 
ble; and he can scarcely be made to 
move. There is fever and considerable 
disturbance in the acute variety of the 
disease. 

Treatment. — Give the horse a good 
clean bed of straw in a large, well 
ventilated room or stall, so as to en- 
courage him to lie down, thus, by re- 



moving the weight from the inflamed 
parts, relieve his sufferings and hasten 
the cure. 

As soon as his bed is fixed, give him 
20 drops of Tincture of Aconite Root 
in half a pint of cold water, poured 
into his mouth from a bottle having 
a strong neck. Repeat this dose every 
four hours until six or eight doses 
have been taken ; keep the pain down 
with wet cloths applied to the feet. 
Give plenty of cold water to drink. 
The above treatment should be adopted 
as soon as the horse has been attacked 
with founder. Let the horse remain 
quiet until he has fully recovered; 
give grass or mashes for two or three 
days, and then give a good and fair 
amount of hay. 

Heaves. — This disease is due, usu- 
ally, to an enlarged, and occasionally,, 
a ruptured, condition of the air cell* 
of the lungs, which lessens the value 
and usefulness of the horse. 

The disease exists in every degree 
of intensity, from the slight case to- 
the one which finds the horse almost 
powerless to breathe. 

Causes. — In cases of heaves, horses 
are always enormous eaters. It has 
generally been found that horses over- 
fed on hay are liable to this disease. 
Heaves are never found in the racing- 
stable, where horses are properly fed. 

Treatment. — Restrict the amount 
of hay and increase the grain feed,, 
which will allow m'ore room for the- 
lungs to act. 

Receipts for the Cure of 
Heaves. 

First. — Powdered Assafoutida, 1 
I ounce ; Powdered Camphor, J ounce. 
Mix, and make four powders. Feed; 
one every other night for a week. 

Seco7id. — Capsicum, 1 ounce; Rosin, 
1 ounce; Tartar Emetic, 1 ounce; 
Carbonate of Iron, 1 ounce. Mix al- 
together thoroughly, and give two tea- 
spoonfuls twice a day in the feed. 

TViiVrf. — Heaves has been cured by 
administering the Oil of Tar. By 
pouring it upon the tongue, and then-. 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



465 



givine some grain, which carries it 
into the stomach. In had cases it may 
he given in tahlespoonfal doses. It is 
an excellent remedy for coughs, im- 
proving the appetite and body in gen- 
eral. 

Hide-Bound. — Side-Bound is a 
condition easily recognized by an ad- 
herence of the skin to the ribs, arising 
generally from an insufficient quantity 
or poor quality of food, and is a usual 
attendant of an exhausting or linger- 
ing disease. 

l%e Treatment consists in giving 
mixed feed, bran, corn-meal, cut hay, 
etc., moistened with just sufficient 
water to keep the mass together ; then 
take -JPowdered Gentian Root, 3 
drachms ; Powdered Sulphate of Iron, 
2 drachms. Mix, and give at one dose. 

Kidney Diseases. — Disease of the 
Kidneys is usually known by a pecu- 
liar straddling gait, indicative of some 
disordered condition of those glands, 
as gravel, stony or gritty matter 
formed within them, which passes oflf 
in the urine, causing an irregular flow 
of the water. 

Treatment. — 30 drops of Hydrochlo- 
ric Acid should be given in a pail of 
water twice a week. 

Kidney troubles in old horses can 
generally be relieved by giving soft 
feed. Boiled or steamed feed, flax- 
seed tea, cut grass, etc. Plenty of 
cold water should be allowed. 

Inflammation of the Kidneys is usu- 
ally brought on by hard work, im- 
proper food, sudden colds, or by an 
indiscriminate use of diuretic medi- 
cines. 

General Symptoms. — Quick breath- 
ing, indicative of pain; hard, quick 
fmlse, with more or less fever; unwil- 
ing to move hind legs, which he 
straddles apart when he walks; the 
water is scanty and of a deep color, at 
times bloody. Great tenderness on 
pressure over region of kidneys; re- 
fuses to move about or lie down. 

Treatment, — Never give diuretic 

medicines. They will do harm. In 

the first stage administer about 40 

grains of Opium with 15 grains of Cal- 

SO 



omel sprinkled on the tongue. Re- 
peat every two hours during the acate 
stage of the disease. If there be a 
hard, quick pulse, give 20 drops of 
Tincture of Aconite Koot. Repeat un- 
til the pulse becomes slow and soft. 
Give plenty of rest. 

Lungs, Diseases of. — Pneumonia 
(inflammation of lungs). A diseased 
condition of the lungs' structure, 
characterized by a discharge from the 
nostrils, following a sudden exposure 
to cold after being in a warm stable. 
The disease starts by a sudden chill, 
followed by a fever ; cold ears and legs ; 
hard, quick pulse, with labored breath- 
ing; pain in the chest, with cough; 
the animal stands with drooping head, 
does not care to move about; the 
nostrils are widely distended ; a pecu- 
liar crackling noise is heard, if the 
ear is applied to the side of the chest. 

Its Cause. — One of the most fre- 
quent causes is a hard drive in a cold 
wind, after coming out of a warm, 
comfortable stable. 

Treatment. — Keep animal comfort- 
able in well- ventilated, roomy stable. 
Keep dry. Give 25 drops of Tincture 
of Aconite Root every 4. hours in a cup 
of cool water, until 5 or 6 doses have 
been administered. Most likely the 
horse will now begin to perspire 
freely, care being taken that no draught 
of air strikes the horse. After taking 
sufficient of the Aconite Root and as 
soon as the appetite returns, thor- 
oughly scald a pint of crushed oats, 
and give during the day. Care must 
be taken not to give much food at one 
time, as a return of the disease might 
ensue; the food must be increased 
gradually. No hay should be given 
for a week or two. If the horse is 
very weak, give raw eggs or other 
nourishing food in as concentrated a 
form as possible. 

Loss of Hair or Baldness. — This 
disorder is produced by imperfect di- 
gestion. When small watery blebs 
occur, the horse should be turned to 
grass. If caused by blisters, burns, or 
sores, etc., apply the following lotion 
once a day : Tincture of Cautharides 



4(iG 



4 > REATI8E UPON THE HORSE. 



1 ounce ; Aqua Ammonia, 1 drachm ; 
Glycerine, 2 ounces. Mix. The fol- 
lowing is also recommended : Iodine, ^ 
drachm ; Iodide Potassium, 15 grains ; 
Lard, 2 ounces. Mix all together thor- 
oughly, and rub down to the skin 
three times a week. 

Skin Diseases of Mange, Itch, 
ETC. — A group of contagious diseases 
caused by an insect burrowing in the 
skin. 

Symptoms. — The horse is contin- 
ually rubbing' himself against every- 
thing he can. Small, red, elevated 
points may be seen upon the skin of 
the head and neck. The hair falls off, 
leaving the skin bald and fissured, 
with intense itching. 

Treatment. — The horse must first 
have a good scrubbing with a stiff 
brush, EM theu with Castile soap and 
water containing a small quantity of 
soda (a tablespoonful to the quart). 
Wipe dry, and after thoroughly dry- 
ing, apply the following ointment : 
Take Lard, 10 ounces; Sulphur, 4 
ounces ; Carbolic Acid, \ ounce ; Oxide 
Zinc, 2 ounces. Mix. 

Owing to the contagious character 
of this disease, great care should be 
taken that all articles used about the 
horse should be cleaned, and subjected 
to great heat or the vapor of water con- 
taining carbolic acid, in order to destroy 
the insect which ha.s caused the disease. 

Tape-Worm. — The presence of the 
tape-warm is generally indicated by 
checked or retarded growth, a large 
head and abdomen, long ears, vora- 
cious appetite, rough coat, thin and 
emaciated body, with fetid breath. 
The colt pecks find bites its sides, 
and rubs its nose forcibly against the 
walls and fence posts. 

Treatment. — Turpentine is a very ef- 
fectual remedy. 

for a colt three months old, from a J 
to a tablespoonful. 

For a colt six months old, from 1 to 2 
tablespoon fuls. 

F'or a colt one i/ear old, 2 to 3 table- 
spoonfuls. 

For a colt fv>o years old, 2 to 4 table- 
.'•poonfuls. 



For a horse four years old, 3 to 4 
ounces. Mix the turpentine with a i 
pint of infusion of Quassia Bark ; add 
firom I: to J a drachm of Powdered 
Camphor, and with the yolks of 3 
eggs ; shakejwell, and give early in the 
morning. Feed well, and give the 
medicine below every morning until 
the coat becomes glossy : Tincture ol 
Chloride of Iron, 1 teaspoonful to an 
ounce ; also Fowler's Solution, from 
15 drops to 2 drachms, according to the 
age. 

Pin-Worms. — Pin- Womis are a va- 
riety of worms infesting the rectum, 
causing great irritation to that part 
of the body ; the horse rubbing its 
hair off, in order that it may stop 
the intolerable itching. 

Treatment. — Give an injection com- 
posed of Catechu, 1 ounce, in a quart 
of water ; and when dissolved, give an 
injection, and repeat for seven morn- 
ings, and on the eighth morning give 
a mash. At night, follow with a i 
ounce of Aloes, with a drachm of Calo- 
mel ; it may be repeated if necessary. 

SPECIAL FORMULAS 

For Colic. — Take Laudanum, 1 
ounce ; Essence Peppermint, 2 ounces ; 
Sulphuric Ether, IJ ounces; Water, 16 
ounces. Mix, and shake well before 
giving. 

For Heaves. — Take Balsam Copai- 
ba, 1 ounce; Spirits of Turpentine, 2 
ounces ; Balsam of Fir, 1 ounce ; good 
Vinegar, 16 ounces. Mix ; give a ta- 
blespoonful once a day. 

An Excellent Liniment. — Take 
Oil of Spike, 1 ounce ; Oil of Orig- 
anum, 2 ounces ; Alcohol, 16 ounces. 
Good for lameness from any cause. 

For Cuts and Sores. — Take Tinc- 
ture of Aloes, 1 ounce ; Tincture of 
Myrrh, J ounce ; Tincture of Opium, J 
ounce ; Water, 4 ounces. Mix. Apply 
night and morning. 

Condition Powders. — Take Gentian, 
2 ounces; Fenugreek, 2 ounces; Sul. 
phur, 2 ounces; Saltpetre, 2 ounces j 
Cream of Tartar, 2 ounces ; Rosin, { 
ounce; Black Antimony, 1 ounce 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



467 



Ginger, 3 ounces ; Cayenne, 1 ounce ; 
Licorice, 3 ounces. Powder and mix 
all together. Dose, a tablespoonfiil 
once or twice a day for the cure of 
coughs and colds, distempers, etc., and 
in all diseases where condition pow- 
ders are indicated. 

For Galls and Bruises. — Take 
Laudanum, 2 ounces ; Tannin, 2 
drachms. Mix, and apply twice a day. 

Eye-Water. — Take Laudanum, 1 
drachm ; Sugar of Lead, J drachm ; 
Soft Water, 8 ounces. Mix, and apply 
to the eye two or three times a day. 

Diabetes. — Take Catechu, ^ dr. ; 
Laudanum, 2 drachms; Sugar of Lead, 
5 grains ; Alum, 15 grains ; Water, 8 
ounces. Mix. 

Fever-Balls. — Take Tincture of 
Aconite, 10 drops ; Saltpetre,l drachm ; 
Tartar Emetic, i drachm ; Ginger, 2 



drachms; Linseed Meal, 1 ounce. 
Mix, and make a ball. Eepeat three 
or four times a day, if necessary. 

Diuretic and Tonic Ball. —Take 
Copperas, 1 drachm ; Saltpetre, 3 
drachms; Rosin, 4 drachms; Fenu- 
greek, 2 drachms; Flax-seed Meal, 1 
ounce ; Castile Soap, 2 drachms. Mix, 
and make a ball. 

For Galled Shoulders. — Take 
Tincture of Arnica, 1 ounce ; Vinegar, 
6 ounces; Brandy, 4 ounces ; Sal Am- 
monia, 2 ounces; Water, 1 pint. 
Mix ; bathe the parts frequently. 

For Thrush. —Take White Vitriol, 
2 ounces ; Water, J pint. Mix. After 
cutting away the diseased parts and 
thoroughly cleaning, apply to the dis- 
eased structure. Pack with lint to 
exclude dirt. 



THE DOSES OF MEDICINE REQUIRED FOR THE HORSE 



Name of Drco. 



Arsenic 

Carbolic Acid 

Tannic Acid 

Alum 

Aloes 

Ether 

Anise Beed 

Tartar Emetic 

Assafoetida 

Bismuth 

Camphor 

Cantharides 

Cayenne 

Prepared Chalk..., 

Blue Vitriol 

Copperas 

Digitalis Leaf. 

Gentian Root 

Calomel 

Aqua Ammonia..., 

Fowler's Solution 

Solution of Lime., 

Magnesia 

Epsom Salts 

Nux Vomica 

Linseed Oil 

Castor Oil 

Croton Oil 



Action and Use. 



{Alterative and Tonic, used for) 
Paralysis, Mange, etc. ) ' 

Externally and Disinfectant 

Astringent 

Astringent 

Laxative and Tonic 

Anti-spasmodic 

Aromatic and Stomachic 

Sedative and Alterative 

Anti-spasmodic, Coughs, etc 

For Chronic Diarrhoea, etc 

Anti-spasmodic 

Diuretic and Stimulant 

Stimulant and Carminative 

Antacid 

Astringent and Tonic 

Tonic and Astringent 

Sedative and Diuretic 

Tonic 

Cathartic 

Stimulant and Antacid 

Used for Skin Diseases. See) 

Arsenic, a preparation of. / ' 
Antacid, used as an Antidote to\ _ 

Poisoning by Acids. j ' 

For Colts, as an Antacid and \ 

Laxative. / " 
Cathartic and Febrifuge 



f Nervous Stimulant — used for \ 
\ Paralysis. j ' 

Cathartic and Nutritive 

Cathartic 

Powerful Purgative 



Dose. 



1 to 6 grs., 



20 to 40 grs, 

2 to 3 drs. 
14 to 1 oz. 
V| to 2 ozs.! 

% to 2 03S. 

%to}4dr... 
I to 3 drs.; 
V^ to 1 oz. 
J.J to 1 dr. 

3 to 6 grs. 
5 to 25 grs. 
V^ to 1 oz. 

k to 1 dr 

14 to 114 drs. 
10 to 20 gri.. 
1 to 2 drs. 
10 to 40 grs. 

1 to 4 drs 

1 to 4 drs 



4 to 6 ozs. 
i<^ to 1 oz. 
2 to 8 ozs. 

15 to 25 grs. 

1 to 2 pts. 
1^ to 1 pt. 
10 to 16 d'p's 



Antidote. 



Magnesia and Oil. 
Eggs, Soap, Qruel. 



Tannic Acid. 



Eggs, Milk, etc. 

Stimulate. 

Eggs and Milk. 
Vinegar. 

( Hyd rated Peroxide of 

\ Iron. 



rSaleratus followed 

quickly by Copperas, 

I both dissolved in water 



Opium. 



468 



A TREATISE UPOH THE HOBSE. 



THE DOSES OF MEDICINE EEQUIRED F0£ THE HOBSE 

(COKTINUED.) 



Mamk or Drug. 



Opium . 



Bicarbonate of 

Potash. 
Chlorate of Pot- 

aah. 
Saltpetre 

Iodide of Potas- 



Black Antimony.. 

Quinine , 

Soda Bicarb 

Glanber-Salts 



Soda Sulphite 

Sweet Spirits of 
Nitre. 

Spirits of Chloro- 
form, 

Strychnia 



Sulphur. 



Tincture of Aeon' 
iteRoot , 



Tincture of Can- 

tharides. 
Tincture Ergot 

Tincture Iron 

Tincture Iodine.... 

Tr. Nux Vomica.... 

Tincture Opium..., 
Mercurial Oint- 
ment. 

White Vitriol 



Oinger., 



AOTiON im Vem. 



("Anodyne and Anti-spasmodic. 1 
< Oiven in Colic, Inflammation >• 
( of Bowels, Diarrhoea, etc. J 

r Diuretic and Antacid. Qood for 
1 Uheumatism. 
J Diuretic. QiTen for Bloating, 
\ etc. 

Diuretic and Febrifuge 

fDiuretio and Alterative. XJ8ed°| 
■i for Rheumatism, Dropsy, £n- > 
(. larged Glands, etc. J 

Promotes the Secretions 



;|;; 



Tonic given daring Convalescence.. 

Similar to Bicarb. Potash 

Cathartic 

Antiseptic and Alterative, used] 
for Blood Diseases. 

I Diuretic and Diaphoretic. 

Anodyne and Anti-spasmodic. 

I Tonic and Stimulant. Used for ] 
Paralysis. 

r Alterative and Laxative. Usedl 
for Skin Diseases and Rheu- 
matism. 

{Sedative. Used for Lung Fever, \ 
etc. ; ' 



Stimulant and Tonic. 



Parturient 

f Tonic and Astringent. Used for ) _ 
1 Typhoid Diseases. J ' 

Used Externally 

f Tonic Stimulant in Paralysis ) ^ 
\ and Dyspepsia. J ' 

Anodyne and Anti-spasmodic 

( Used for Mange, Itch, Lice, and 1 
1 other Parasites. 
/Astringent. Used for Cuts,] 
( Wounds and Sores in solution! 
(Tonic, Stimulant and Stom-| 
•< achic. Used for Flatulent ; 
(, Colic, Dyspepsia, etc. 



Dosi. 



J4 to 1 dr„. 



3 to 6 grs 

1 to 2 drs. 
1 to 3 drs. 
J^tolJ^drs. 

i/ito^dr... 

16 to 50 grs. 
3 to 8 drs. 
6 to 12 ozs. 
^ to 1 01. 

^ to 1)^ OSS. 
1 to 2 OES. 
J^ to 1 gr 

^ to 2 oca. 

15 to 35 d'p's 

1 to 2 ozs. 

1 to 2 ozs. 
l^iol OS. 

2 to i drs..... 
1 to 2 os(..... 



6 to 16 grs.. 
2 to 5 drs. 



Amtimti. 



Belladonna, Strong Cof- 
fee. Brandy and Am- 
monia. Dash cold 
water on and keep 
the horse moving. 

Viaegar and Linseed 
■. Oil. 

Linseed Oil largely. 

iGive freely Starch or 
Flour, with water 
largely. 
Infusion of Oak Bark. 
Give also Linseed Oil. 



Tobacco. 



' Give small doses of Nux 
Vomica and stimu- 
lants largely, and 

. keep moving. 



See Nnx Tomic*. 

See Opium. 

(Whites of Eggs with 
X Milk given freely. 

Milk, Eggs, and Floar. 



For a colt one month old, give one twenty-fourth of the full dose for an adult horse as given 
above ; three months old, one-twelfth ; six months old, one sixth ; one year old, one-third ; two 
I old, one-half; three years old, three-fourths. 



APPENDIX. 

A Receptacle por Recording Personal Recipes, Securino them 

AGAINST Loss, AND PRESERVING THEM FOR ReADY REFERENCE. 



(469) 



470 



YOU ask! — I'll tellI 



APPENDIX. 



471 



472 



YOU ask! — I'l.T. tet.l! 



APPENDIX. 



473 



474 



YOU ask! — I'l.I^ TELLf 



APPENDIX. 



475 



476 



YOU ask! — I'r-i- tell! 



APPKNDIX. 



477 



478 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



APPENDIX. 479 



4«() 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



APPENDIX. 



481 



4H2 



YOU ask! — I'll tell! 



APPENDIX. 



483 



484 



YOU ask! — I'l.L tell! 



INDEX. 



ABSCESSES, 92. 
Acetate of Ammonia, 130. 
Acetate of Potassa, 129. 
Acid, Citric, 132. 
Acid, Tartaric. 132. 
Accidents, to Prevent, 153-155. 
Affidavits, 377. 
Agents, 379. 
Agreements, 376. 
Alabaster, to Clean, 283. 
Alcohol, 122. 
All Fours, Game of, 405. 
Aloes, 129. 
Alum Whey, 270. 
Ammonia, 124. 
Ammoniacum, 130. 
Amusements, 392. 
Anagrams, 392. 
Anchovies, to Make, 206. 
Anchovy Toast, 252. 
Antacids, 132. 
Antalkalies, 132. 
Anthelmintics, 132. 
Antimacassar, 426. 
Antimony, 130. 
Antispasmodics, 124. 
Ants, to Destroy, 358. 
Apparatus, 140. 
Appetite, 148. 
Apple Dumplings, 242. 
Apple Jelly, 257. 
Apple Marmalade, 257. 
Apple Sauce, 210, 215. 
Apple Water, 271 . 
Apples, to Keep, 254. 
Apples, Stewed and Roasted, 258. 
Apprentices, 381. 
Apoplexy, 42. 
Apricots, to Dry, 254. 
.\rbitration and Awards, 377. 
Arrowroot, Blanc Mange, 258. 
Artichokes, to Boil, 233. 
Artichokes, to Pickle, 226. 
Articles of Food, 159. 
Asiatic Cholera, 73. 
Asking Papa, 333. 
Asparagus, 233. 
Assafoetida, 124. 
Assignments, 376. 
Asthma, 60. 
Astringent. 126. 
Attorney, Power of, 383. 

BACON and Eggs, 196. 
Bacon, to Boil, 183. 
Bacon, English Breakfast, 183. 
Bacon, to Cure, 293. 
Baked Meats, 173. 
Baking, 170. 
Balls and Parties, 830. 
Bandages, 138. 



Bark, Peruvian, 125. 

Bark, Angostura, 126. 

Barley Water, 270. 

Barometers, 297. 

Basting, 170. 

Bathing, 144. 

Beans, French or String, 233. 

Beans, Baked, 236. 

Beds, Cheap, 279. 

Beds, Feather, 16. 

Bed-Rooms, 279. 

Beds, to Tell if Aired, 279. 

Beds, to Heat, 156. 

Beef Baked, 175. 

Beef, Boiled, 176. 

Beef, Cold Cookery, 176. 

Beef, Dried, 294. 

Beef, Extract of, 203. 

Beef, Extra, 294. 

Beef Gravy, 215. 

Beef, Hashed, 176. 

Beef, Heart, to Dress, 174. 

Beef, Minced, 177. 

Beef, Potted, 176. 

Beef, Shin of, 178. 

Beef, Sirloin, to Roast, 173. 

Beef-Steak, Broiled, 174. 

Beef-Steak, Fried, 174. 

Beef-Steak Pie, 177. 

Beef-Steak Pudding, 178. 

Beef Stew, 177. 

Beef Stewed with Oysters, 176. 

Beet Root Coffee, 269. 

Beet Root, to Pickle, 226. 

Bicarbonate of Ammonia, 124. 

Bilious Colic, 68. 

Bills of Exchange, 378. 

Birds, to Clean, 357. 

Biscuit, Hot, 271. 

Biscuits, Ginger, 250. 

Biscuits, Sugar, 250. 

Biting the Nails, 303. 

Blackberry Cordial, 264. 

Blackberry Jam, 256. 

Blackberry Wine, 264. 

Blacking, 362. 

Black Paper Patterns, 415. 

Bladder, Inflammation of, 76. 

Blanc-Mange Arrowroot, 258. 

Blanc-Mange Lemon, 258. 

Blankets, to Wash, 287. 

Bleeding, 141. 

Bleeding at Nose, 117. 

Blistered Hands and Feet, 348. 

Blood, The, 147. 

Bluestone, 132. 

Boiling, 167. 

Boiling Vegetables, 230. 

Boils, 95. 

Bologna Sausage, 197. 

Books.Grease and Stains from,287. 



Boot Polish, 362. 

Boots and Shoes, to Make Fit, 348. 

Boots, to Blacken, 349. 

Boots, Watertight, 361. 

Borders, Crochet, 425. 

Bottles, to Clean, 283. 

Bottling and Fining, 280. 

Bottling Fruits. 253. 

Bowels, Diseases of, 68. 

Boys, 304. 

Boy Wanted, 305. 

Brain. Diseases of, 41. 

Brandy Sauce, 243. 

Bread, Boston Brown, 274. 

Bread, Corn, 272. 

Bread, Economical, 272. 

Bread, French, 274. 

Bread, Graham, 272. 

Bread, Home-made, 272. 

Bread, Rye, 274. 

Bread, Unfermented, 272. 

Bread, Wholesome, 274. 

Breakfast Rolls, 272. 

Breasts, Inflammation of, 82. 

Bricoli, to Boil, 236. 

Bridesmaids, 336. 

Bright's Disease, 76. 

Brioche Stitch, 442. 

Broiling, 170. 

Broken BreasU, 82. 

Broken Bones, 101. 

Brokers, 379. 

Bronchitis, 57. 

Bruises, 104. 

Brussels Sprouts, 233. 

Buckthorn, 129. 

Bugs, to Destroy, 358. 

Bunions, 105. 

Buns, Bath, 250. 

Buns, Plain, 251. 

Burgundy Pitch, 131. 

Burns and Scalds, 97. 

Burr Stones, Holes in, 361. 

Business and Legal Information, 

376. 
Business, Localities for, 388. 
Business, Men of, 388. 

/'■'ABBAGE, to Boil, 234. 

\y Cabbage, to Pickle, 203. 

Cake, Butter, 249. 

Cake, Banbury, 250. 

Cake, Children's, 247. 

Cake, Common Seed, 248. 

Cake, Drop, 249. 

Cake, Fruit, 249. 

Cake, Ginger, 250. 

Cake, Gingerbread, 249. 

Cake, How to Ornament a, 248. 

Cake, Icing for, 248. 

Cake, Mixed Fruit, 249. 

(485) 



486 



INDEX. 



Cake, Plum, 247. 

Cake, Plum, a Rich, 248. 

Cake, Pound, 247. 

Cake, Short, 249. 

Cake, Snow, 251. 

Cake, Soda, 248. 

Cake, Tea, 249. 

Caledonians, 338. 

Calf's Head Boiled, 184. 

Calf's Head Soup, 201. 

Calf s Liver and Bacon, 184. 

Calico, to Wash, 287. 

Calomel, 125. 

Camomile, 126. 

Camomile Tea, 271. 

Camphor, 122. 

Cancer, 106. 

Candies, to Make, 259. 

Candy Drops, 259. 

Canker of Mouth, 109. 

Cantharides, 131. 

Caper Sauce, 211. 

Capitalists, Small, 388. 

Carbuncle, 96. 

Carditis, 62. 

Carpets, to Choose, 276. 

Carpets, to Clean, 282. 

Carpets, Stair, 282. 

Carriage Accidents, 154. 

Carriage and Express Companies, 

384. 
Carrots, 234. 
Carving, the Art of, 218. 
Carving, Arrangements for, 219. 
Carving Beef, 220. 
Carving Ducks, 223. 
Carving Fish, 219. 
Carving Fowls, 223. 
Carving Goose, 223. 
Carving Ham, 223. 
Carving Lamb, 221. 
Carving Mutton, 221. 
Carving Partridge, 224. 
Carving Pork, 222. 
Carving Tongue, 224. 
Carving Turkeys, 223. 
Carving Veal, 222. 
Carving Venison, 220. 
Cash and Credit, 391. 
Casks, to Sweeten, 281. 
Cassino, Game of, 409. 
Castor Oil, 128. 
Catarrh, 51. 
Catechu, 126. 
Cathartics. 128. 
Cauliflowers, to Boil, 234. 
CauHe and Effect, 371. 
Caustic, 132. 
Cautions, 155. 
Celery, 234. 
Cement, 363, 365. 
Cement for Iron and Stone, 361. 
Chairs, Cane, to Clean, 283. 
Ch.alk, 127. 

Champagne, English, 263. 
Champagne, Mock, 206. 
Champagne, Summer, '267. 
Change of Life, 83. 
Charades, 392-413. 
Charcoal, 171, 154, 284. 
Checks, 379. 
Cheesecakes, 247. 



Chemical Remedies, 131. 

Cherries, to Preserve, 256. 

Chess, How to Play, 393. 

Chestnut Sauce, 214. 

Chicken, Boiled, etc., 188. 

Chicken Pie, 189. 

Chicory, 270. 

Chilblains, 106. 

Chimneys, Smoky, 280, 367. 

Chocolate, 270. 

Choice of Food, 1.59. 

Chloride of Zinc, 132. 

Cholera, Asiatic, 73. 

Cholera Infantum, 28. 

Cholera Morbus, 73. 

Cholera, to Prevent, 153. 

Chow-Chow, 228. 

Chowder, Fish, 209. 

Chutney Sauce, 216. 

Cider, Mulled, 268. 

Cider Wine, 268. 

Cider, to Keep Sweet, 268. 

Cider Vinegar, 214. 

Civility, 389. 

Clams, to Cook, 209. 

Cleaning Dresses, 288-290. 

Cleaning Furniture, 281. 

Cleanliness, 145. 

Clocks, Family, 280. 

Clothes, Old, to Clean, 287. 

Clothes, Black Cloth, to Clean, 

290. 
Cloth, Water-proofing, 370. 
Cocoa, 270. 
Cocoa-nut Candy, 259. 
Codfish, 204. 
Coffee, to Clear, 270. 
Coffee, to Make, 269. 
Coffee, Turkish, 269. 
Coffee, Milk, 270. 
Coffee a Disinfectant, 160. 
Coins, 385. 
Colds, 49. 

Cold in the Head, 371. 
Colds, to Avoid, 352. 
Cold Meat Sauce, 212. 
Colic, Bilious, 68. 
Colic, Infant's, 29. 
Colic, Painter's, 69. 
Colocynth, 128. 

Color of Dresses, to Preserve, 289. 
Coloring Outbuildings, 360. 
Comforter, Ladies', 430. 
Complexion, The, 343. 
Composition, 320. 
Compresses, 137. 
Confectionery, 257. 
Congestive Headache, 39. 
Conveyance, Deed of, 380. 
Constipation or Costiveness, 69. 
Consumption, 58. 
Contract, .376. 
Contracts for Labor, 381. 
Conundrums, 413. ■ 
Conversation, 307. 
Cooking Processes, 164. 
Cordial, Blackberry, 264. 
Corks from Bottles, 352. 
Corn, Sweet, 236. 
Corns, 105. 

Correct Speaking, Rules for, 308. 
Correspondence, 330. 



Cotillion, 339. 
Coughs, 50. 
Cough, Whooping, 26. 
Counsels for the Young, 303. 
Counterfeit Notes, 368. 
Country Dance, 341. 
Cowage, 132. 
Courtship, 332. 
Cows, Age of, 374. 
Cows, How Much Water, 356. 
Cranberry Sauce, 21'.i. 
Crape, Stains from, 289, 291. 
Cream Candy, 259. 
Cream of Tartar, 129. 
Cream, Substitute for, 269. 
Credit, Letter of, 378. 
Cribbage, How to Play, 402. 
Crochet Border, 425. 
Crochet Edging, 4'25. 
Crochet Instructions, 423. 
Crochet Tricoter, 429. 
Crockery Wear, to Anneal, 286. 
Croquet, Game of, 411. 
Croup, 24. 

Cucumbers, to Dress, 235. 
Cucumbers, to Pickle, 225. 
Cupping, 141. 
Cure for Drunkenness, 41. 
Currants, Red Jam, 255. 
Currants, Red Jelly, 255. 
Currants, Red Wine, 265. 
Currants, Black Jam, 257. 
Currants, Black Jelly, 257. 
Curry Powder, 215. 
Cushion, Toilet, 444. 
Custard, Baked, 242, 247. 
Custard, Boiled, "258. 
Cutlery and Children, 155. 
Cutlery, Marking, 370. 
Cutting Iron or Brass, 364. 

DAMP Walls, 279. 
Damsons for Winter use, 
256. 
Dancing and Dances, 337. 
Daughters, 303. 
Deafness, 64. 
Death, to Ascertain, 369. 
Decalcomanie, 422. 
Deed, 380. 

Delirium Tremens, 40. 
Demulcents, 133. 
Devil'd Turkey, 198. 
Diabetes, 78. 

Diaphanie, the Art of, 420. 
Diaphoretics, 130. 
Diarrhoea, 70. 

Diarrhoea in Consumption, 69. 
Dictionary of Terms, 133. 
Diluents, 133. 
Dinner Table, 325. 
Diphtheria, 32. 
Diseases of Bladder, 76. 
Diseases of Bowels, 68. 
Diseases of the Brain, 41. 
Diseases of the Chest, 57. 
Diseases of Children, 24. 
Diseases of the Ear, 64. 
Diseases of the Eye, 112. 
Diseases of Females, 79. 
Diseases of the Heart, 62. 
Diseases of Infants, 16. 



INDEX. 



487 



Diseases of the Kidneys, 75. 
Diseases of the Liver, 65. 
Diseases of the Nerves, 40. 
Diseases of the Stomach, 67 
Disengaged, 332. 
Disinfecting Fluid, 149. 
Dislocation, 101. 
Distance and Time-table, 385. 
Disturbed Sleep, 49. 
Diuretics, 129. 
Dogs' Beds, 356. 
Domestic Hints, 295, 371. 
Domestic Measures, 118. 
Domestic Surgery, 136. 
Domestic Yeast, 271. 
Dominoes, to Play, 406. 
Door, to Keep Open, 279. 
D'Oyley, Jewelled, 427. 
D'Oyley, Netted, 434. 
Draughts or Checkers, 395. 
Dredgings, 170. 
Dress, Night, 16. 
Dress, Visiting, 324. 
Dresses, to Clean, 288. 
Dresses, Faded, to Bleach, 291. 
Dressings, 136. 
Dressmaking, 42 4 44 7. 
Drinking in Warm Weather, 153. 
Dripping Crust, 244. 
Drunkard's Cure, 4) 
Dry Cupping, 141. 
Dry Warmth, 141.' 
Ducks, Care of Young, 355. 
Ducks, Hashed, 190. 
Ducks, Raising of, 354. 
Ducks, Stewed, and Peas, 190. 
Ducks, Wild, Roast, 192. 
Due Bills, 379. 

Dumpling, Apple, Baked, 242. 
Dumpling, Apple, Boiled, 242. 
Dutch Oven, 172. 
Dysentery, 72. 
Dyspepsia, 67. 
Dyspepsia Bread, 273. 

EARACHE, 55. 
Early Rising, 148-390. 
Economy, 296. 
Edging, Crochet, 425. 
Eels, to Cook, 205-210. 
Effect and Causes, 371. 
Effervescent Drink, 271. 
Egg Flip, 267. 
Egg Omelet, 196. 
Egg Sauce, 211. 
Eggs for Winter Use, 294. 
Eggs, to Cook, 195. 
Eggs, to Pickle, 227. 
Esgs, to Po.ich, 196. 
Eggs, to Tell if Good, 197. 
Elderberry Wine, 265. 
Emetics, 127. 
Emolients, 133. 
Engaged, 334. 
English Champagne, 263. 
English Mi.xed Pickle, 228. 
Enigmas, 393. 
Epispastics, 131. 
Epsom Salts, 129. 
Erysipelas, 36. 
Escharotics, 132. 
Essence of Mushroom, 213. 



Ether, 123. 
Etiquette, 324. 
Evening Pastime, 392. 
Exercise, 15, 146. 
Expectorants, 130. 
Extract of Beef, 203. 
Eyelashes, 343. 
Eye, Diseases of the, 112. 
Eyesight, to Preserve, 115. 

FACTORS, 379. 
Failures, 389. 
Fainting, 48. 
Family Soup, 200. 
Family Wine, 266. 
Fancy Needlework, 415. 
Farm Recipes, 353. 
Fat, 170. 

Feather Beds, 16. 
Feather Flowers, 416. 
Feathers and Beds, to Clean, 290. 
Feathers, to Dye, 416. 
Feet, Care for the, 349. 
Feet, Wash, 348. 
Felon, 116. 
Female Disease, 79. 
Fences, to Color, 360. 
Fern Root, 132. 
Fever and Ague, 85. 
Fever and Ague, New Cure for, 

372. 
Fever, Causes of, 83. 
Fever, Hay, 61. 
Fever, Lung, 60. 
Fever, Milk, 82. 
Fever, Typhoid, 84. 
Fever, Yellow, 87. 
Finger Nails, 347. 
Finger Nails, Biting of, 303. 
Finger Ring, to Remove, 350. 
Fire, Precautions in Case of, 155. 
Fire Screens, 280. 
Fires, to Prevent, 155. 
Fish, to Cook, 204. 
Fish Cakes, 209. 
Fits, 29. 

Flannel, Effect on the Skin, 349. 
Flannel, to Wash, 285. 
Flannel, to Shrink, 289. 
Flafinel, to Scour, 284. 
Flies, to Destroy, 358. 
Floors, to Scour, 284. 
Flowers, Feather, 416. 
Flowers and Fruit, Wax, 417. 
Flowers, Language of, 342. 
Food, 15. 

Food, amount of, 164. 
Food, Choice of, 159. 
Forcemeat, 209, 217. 
Fowls, to Boil, 188. 
Fowls, to Roast, 187. 
Fowls, Fricasseed, 188. 
Fractures, 101. 
Freezing with and without Ice, 

261. 
French Beans, to Boil, 233. 
French Beans, to Pickle, 226. 
Fricassee Rabbits, 193. 
Fried Oysters, 219. 
Frost Bite, 118. 
Frugality, 390. 
Fruits, to Preserve, 263. 



Frying, 170. 
Frying Fish, 208. 
Frying Pan, 172. 
Funerals, 336. 
Furnishing a House, 275. 
Furniture, Care of, 281. 
Furniture, Scratched, 283. 
Furniture, Stains out of, 286. 
Furs, to Clean and Preserve, '290. 

GALBANUM, 124. 
Gamboge, 132. 
Garden Walks, 359. 
Garnishes, 216. 
Garters, 348. 

Gas Escaping, to Detect, 368. 
Gas Meter, to Read, 367. 
Gentian, 126. 
Gentleman, A, 327. 
Gherkins, to Pickle, 227. 
Giblet Pie, 191. 
Giblets, to Slew, 191. 
Gilt Frames, 279. 
Ginger, 130. 
Ginger Beer, 266. 
Ginger Bread, 251. 
Ginger Cakes, 250. 
Ginger Candy, 259. 
Ginger Snaps, 251. 
Ginger Wine, 265. 
Giving Medicines, 120. 
Glass, to Break any Shape, 280, 
Glass and China Cement, 365. 
Glass, Ground, to Imitate, 280. 
Glass, Holes in, to Bore, 370. 
Glass Stopples, to Loosen, 281, 
Glass, Substitute for, 361. 
Glassware, to Anneal, 285. 
Glassware, to Wash, 283. 
Glauber's Salts, 129. 
Glossary of Terms, 133. 
Glue, Liquid, 364. 
Glue, Marine, 365. 
Gooseberry Sauce, 21i 
Goose, to Roast, 187. 
Grapes, to Keep, 257. 
Grape Wine, 265. 
Gravel, 78. 
Gravy, Beef, 215. 
Gravy Soup, 200. 
Green Peas, 225. 
Gridiron, 172. 
Grindstone, 371. 
Grouse, Roast, 192. 
Gi-ubs, or Worms on Face, 38. 
Guinea Fowl, Roast, 192. 

HADDOCK, 205. 
Hair Dye, 344. 
Hair, Preparations for the, 344. 
Hair Brushes, to Clean, 347. 
Halibut, 209. 
Ham, to Bake, 181. 
Ham, to Boil, 182. 
Ham, to Cure, 243. 
Ham, Skippers in, to Prevent, 

294. 
Ham aiid Veal Pie, 183. 
Hand, Management of the, 347» 
Hashed Goose, 187. 
Hashed Venison, 194. 
Hashed Turkey, 186. 



488 



INDEX. 



Hat, to Take Care of, 347. 

Hay Fever, 61. 

Head. Protection for the, 150. 

Headache, Congestive, 39. 

Headache, Periodic, 40. 

Headache, Rheumatic, 40. 

Headache, Sick, 39. 

Health, to Preserve, 143. 

Hearing, 54. 

Heart, Diseases of the, C2. 

Heartburn, 64, 271. 

Hearth Rugs. 278. 

Heaters and Stoves, 285. 

Hens' Eggs, to Choose, 355. 

Hens, to Fatten, 355. 

Hens, to Make Lay, 355. 

Hernia, 111. 

Herbs, IBS. 

Herring, Potted, 229. 

Hiccough, 48. 

Hints, Domestic, 277. 

Hints upon Dress, 372. 

Hints upon Spelling, 322. 

Home, 11. 

Home Comfort, Hints for, 277. 

Home-made Bread, 272. 

Hominy, 236. 

Honey, to Keep, 296. 

Hops, 123. 

Horseradish Powder, 216. 

Horses, 459. 

Horses, Age of, 363. 

Horses, to Feed, 353. 

Horses, Flies, to Keep Off, 354. 

Horses, Pain in, to Remove, 357. 

Horses, Scent, 354. 

Horses, Scratches in, to Cure, 357. 

Horses, Stumble, 354. 

Hot Biscuit, 271. 

Hot Cakes, 273. 

Hot Sauce, 213. 

House, to Furnish, 276. 

House, Taking a, 276. 

Household Management, 278. 

Housewife, 170. 

Husbands, Hints for, 298. 

Hydrophobia, 46. 

fCE CREAM.Flavoring, 262. 
1 Ice Cream, to Make, 261. 
Ice, Home-made, 363. 
Ice House, Cheap, 303. 
Ice Pitcher, Cheap, 298. 
Ice, Strength of, 363. 
Ice Water, 203. 
Icing for Cakes, 248. 
Incontinence of Urine, 78. 
Indigestion, 67. 
Infant's Cap, 438. 
Infants, Diseases of, 21. 
Infants, Management of, 18. 
Indian Pickle, 226. 
Inflammation of Bladder, 76. 
Inflammation of Bowels, 68. 
Inflammation of Breasts, 82. 
Inflammation of Heart, 62. 
Inflammation of Kidneys, 76. 
Inflammation of Liver, 65. 
Inflammation of Spleen, 06. 
Inflammations, 92. 
Influenza, 56. 
Ingrowing 'I'oe Nail, 105. 



Ink. Indelible, for Linen, 375. 
Ink, Marking, to Take Out, 286. 
Ink, to Take from Paper, 286. 
Ink, to Write on Zinc, 371. 
Ink, to Remove Stains, 284. 
Integrity, 390. 

Interests, Legal Rates of, 385. 
Interest, Tables, 385. 
Intermittent Fever, 85. 
Ipecacuanha, 127. 
Ironing without Heat, 293. 
Iron Rust from Linen, 286. 
Itch, 35. 

JALAP, 128. 
Japanese Work, 415. 
Jaundice, 66. 
Jellies, Bottled to Mould, 259. 
Juniper, 130. 
Joints, 161. 

IT'ETCHUP, Mushroom, 213. 
]\ Ketchup, Oyster, 214. 
Ketchup, Tomato, 212. 
Kettles, to Clean, 257. 
Kidneys, to Cook, 198. 
Kidneys, Diseases of, 75. 
King's Evil, 90. 
Kino, 126. 

Knife Handles, to Fasten, 361. 
Knitted Counterpane, 442. 
Knitting, Instructions in, 441. 

LACE VEILS, etc., 291. 
Ladies, 326. 
Ladies' Comforter, 430. 
Lamb Chops, 180. 
Lamb, Leg of. Roast and Boiled, 

180. 
Lamp Chimneys, 285. 
Lamps, to Fill, etc., 286. 
Lamps, to Prevent Smoking, 279. 
Lancers, The, 338. 
Landlord and Tenant, 379. 
Language of Flowers, 342. 
Larder, The, 279. 
Large Stoves, 285. 
Laughter, Power of, 151. 
Lead Pencils, to Sharpen, 352. 
Lead Pipe, to Solder, 369. 
Leases, 380. 

Leather, Composition for, 362. 
Leather Work, Ornamented, 415. 
Leeches, 141. 
Legal and Business Information, 

376. 
Legal Principles, 376. 
Lemons, 131. 
Lemonade, 267. 
Lemon Peel, Tincture of, 271. 
Lemon Sauce, 242. 
Lemon Sherbet, 267. 
Letter of Credit, 378. 
Letter Writing, 320. 
Liens, 380. 
Life, Turn of, 161. 
Life Belts, 154. 
Light, a Dark Room, 369. 
Linen, Care of, 281. 
Linen, Incombustible, 292. 
Linen, Stains Out of, 286, 287. 
Linseed, 13:5. 



Lint, 137. 

L'quorice, 133. 

Liver, Dise?3es of, 65. 

Lobsters, 206. 

Local Stimulants, 127. 

Logwood, 127. 

Loo, How to Play, 406. 

Looseness of Bowels, 70. 

Loss by Boiling, 169. 

Loss by Roasting, 167. 

Lozenges, to Make, 260. 

Lumbago, 90. 

Lunar Caustic, 132. 

Lung Fever, 60. 

Lungs, to Ascertain State of, 362. 

MACARONI SOUP, 203. 
Mackerel, 206. 
Madeira Wine, 265. 
Magnesia, 128. 
Management of Infants, 19. 
Mania-a-Potu, 40. 
Man of Business, 388. 
Manna, 128. 

Marble, to Clean, 283, 284. 
Marketing, 163. 
Marking Cutlery, 370. 
Marmalade Apple, 257. 
Marmalade Orange, 256. 
Marriage, 335. 
Marriage with Blood Relations, 

152. 
Marriage, Legal, 384. 
Marsh Mallow, 133. 
Mat for Vase, 442. 
Matrimony, Game of, 408. 
Matting, Straw, 282. 
Mattrasses, Stains from, 286. 
Mazurka, 339. 
Measles, 29. 

Measures, Domestic, 119. 
Meats, to Cure in Hot Weather, 

294. 
Meats, to Hang, 293. 
Meats, to Pickle, 293. 
Meats, to Dry-Salt, 293. 
Mechanical Remedies, 132. 
Medicine, Terms Used in, 133. 
Medicines, Precautions, 120. 
Medicines, their Properties, 122. 
Medicines, to Make, 119. 
Melons, to Pickle, 225. 
Melted Butter, 211. 
Mending, 281. 
Menstruation, 79. 
Mildew out of Linen, 292. 
Milk Fever, 82. 
Milk Lemonade, 267. 
Milk, to Keep Sweet, 295. 
Milk, Morning, 356. 
Milk and Water, 356. 
Mincemeat, 244. 
Mint Sauce, 211. 
Mirrors, to Clean, 285. 
Mixed Pickle, English, 228. 
Mock Turtle Soup, 201. 
Molasses, Boil your, 243. 
Molasses Candy, 259. 
Money of Account, 386. 
Money, to Double Itself, 385. 
Money, Foreign, Value of, 385. 
Mourning Dresses, Stains, 289. 



INDEX. 



489 



Mortgages, 380. 
Mothers, Model, 302. 
Moths from Closets, 287. 
Moths, to Prevent and Banish, 
353. 

>!ucilage, 366. 
.lulled Cider, 268. 
Mulled Wine, 268. 
' Mushrooms, 162. 
Mushroom, Essence of, 213. 
Mushroom Ketchup, 213. 
Mushroom, to Pickle, 226. 
Mushroom, to Stew, 233. 
Mustard, 127. 

Mutton, Breast of, Stewed, 179. 
Mutton, Broiled, and Tomatoes, 

180. 
Mutton Chops, Boiled, 179. 
Mutton, Hashed, 179. 
Mutton, Leg, Boiled, 179. 
Mutton, Leg, Roasted, 178. 
Mutton, Loin, Roasted, 179. 
Mutton, Minced, Baked, 181. 
Mutton Sausages, 197. 
Mutton, Shoulder of. Roast, 180. 

NARCOTICS, 122. 
Nasturtions, 228. 
Nausea, 67. 

Needlework, Fancy, 416. 
Nerve Diseases, 39. 
Nervous Palpitation, 63. 
Netted D'Oyley, 434. 
Netting, Instructions in, 431. 
Neuralgia, 47. 
Neuralgia of the Head, 40. 
New Neighborhoods, 389. 
Night-dress, 16. 
Nightmare, 49. 
Night Sweats, 59. 
Nitrate of Silver, 132. 
Nitre, 129. 
Nitric Ether, 123. 
Nose Bleeding, 117. 
Notes, Promissory, 378. 
Notes, Judgment, 378. 
Notice to Quit, 380. 

OAK Bark, 127. 
Oil Cloths, to Clean, 282. 
Oil Paintings, 281. 
Oil of Turpentine, 130. 
Omelets, 196. 
Onion Sauce, 212. 
Onions, Baked, ^5. 
Onions, Pickled, 225. 
Onions, Stewed, 235. 
Operations, Minor Surgical, 136. 
Opium, 123. 

Orange Marmalade, 256. 
Oranges, 131. 

Orders for Merchandise, 378. 
Organic Headache, 40. 
Ostrich Feathers, to clean, 290. 
Ovens, New, to Temper, 285. 
Oxford Sausages, 197. 
Oxide of Zinc, 125. 
Oxtail Soup, 202. 
Oysters, 210. 
Oyster Ketchup, 214. 
Oyster Powder, 215. 



Oyster Sauce, 211. 
Oyster Soup, 202. 

PINT, to Clean. 279-283. 
Paint and Putty, to Remove, 
367. 
Paint, Smell of, 279. 
Paint, Time to, 361. 
Painters' Colic, 69. 
Palpitation of Heart, 63. 
Pancakes, 252. 

Paper Hangings, to Clean, 282. 
Paper on Whitewash Walls, 366. 
Paper, to Remove Grease, 287. 
Paralysis, 44. 
Paralysis of Bladder, 78. 
Parsley and Butter, 212. 
Parsnips, Boiled, 235. 
Parsnip Wine, 264. 
Partnerships, 382. 
Parlies, Evening, 330. 
Partridge, Roast, 192. 
Paste, 370. 

Pastils, for Burning, 280. 
Pastry, 243. 
Patterns on Cloths or Muslin, 

415. 
Peaches, to Preserve, 254. 
Peas, Green, Boiled, 235. 
Pea Soup, 202. 
Pepperpot, 203. 
Periodic Headache, 40. 
Peruvian Bark, 124, 125. 
Pheasant, Roast, 192. 
Piccalilli, 228. 
Pickled Salmon, 208. 
Pickling, 225. 
Pie, Apple, 245. 
Pie, Apple, Open, 246. 
Pie, Beef-Ste.ik, 177. 
Pie, Cherry, 246. 
Pie, Chicken, 189. 
Pie, Cocoanut, 247. 
Pie Crusts, 244. 
Pie Dish, Cup in a, 246. 
Pie, Fish, 205. 
Pie, Giblet, 191. 
Pie, Gooseberry, 246. 
Pie, Ham and Veal, 183. 
Pie, Lark or Sparrow, 195. 
Pie, Mince, 245. 
Pie, Oyster, 205-210. 
Pie, Potato, 232. 
Pie, Rabbit, 194. 
Pie, Rhubarb, 246. 
Pie, Veal, 185. 
Pie, Venison, 195. 
Pigeon, Jugged, 191. 
Pigeon, Roast, 191. 
Pig's Liver, Baked, 182. 
Piles, 69. 

Pimples on the Face, 38. 
Pipe Joints to Sinks, etc., 370. 
Pitch, 131. 
Plasters, 137. 

Plated Ware, to Clean, 283, 284. 
Pleurisy, 59. 
Plums, Preserved, 254. 
Pneumonia, 60. 
Poisoning, 100. 
Politeness, 324. 
Polka, 342. 



Polypus. 110. 
Polypus of the Ear, 66. 
Pomades, to Make, 346. 
Pope Joan, Game of, 408. 
Pork Cutlets or Chops, 181. 
Pork from a Bushel of Com, 354. 
Pork, Leg of, Boiled, 182. 
Pork, Leg of. Roast, 181. 
Pork, Pickled, to Boil, 182. 
Pork, Spare-nb, Roast, 181. 
Portable Soup, 203. 
Position for Sleep, 16. 
Potash, Sulphate of, 129. 
Potassa, Acetate of, 130. 
Potatoes, to Cook, 231. 
Potato Yeast, 271. 
Pot Pie, 189 

Potted Herring, etc., 229. 
Poultices, 137. 
Poultry, Cooking, 167. 
Powders, Ginger Beer, 266. 
Powders, Soda Water, 2G7. 
Powders, Seidlitz, 267. 
Power of Attorney, 383. 
Preservation of Health, 143. 
Preserving Fruits, 253. 
Prevention of Cholera, 153. 
Pronunciation, Rules for, 314, 

316. 
Proposing, 333. 
Provincialisms, 316. 
Pudding, Apple, 237. 
Pudding, Batter, Baked, 238. 
Pudding, Beef-Steak, 178. 
Pudding, Bread, 237. 
Pudding, Bread and Butter, 240. 
Pudding, Currant, 240. 
Pudding, Custard, Baked, 241 . 
Pudding, Damson, 241. 
Pudding, Hasty, 239. 
Pudding, Huckleberry, 239. 
Pudding, Jam, Roly-Poly, 240. 
Pudding, Lemon, Boiled, 241. 
Pudding, Oatmeal, 240. 
Pudding, Peas, 240. 
Pudding, Plum, Christmas, 239. 
Pudding, Plum, English, 239. 
Pudding, Potato, 240. 
Pudding, Rabbit, 194. 
Pudding, Rhubarb, 238. 
Pudding, Rice and Apple, 242. 
Pudding, Rice and Tapioca, 242. 
Pudding, Sauces for, 242. 
Pudding, Suet, 238. 
Pudding, Suet, with Roast Meat, 

241. 
Pudding, Yorkshire, 238. 
Puddings, Baked and Boiled, 237. 
Puff-paste, 243. 
Pulse, The, 64. 
Punch, Whiskey, 268. 
Punctuation, 320. 
Put, How to Play, 407. 
Puzzles, 393. 

QUACKERY, 13. 
Quadrilles, 337. 
Quassia, 126. 
Quinsy, 31. 

RABBIT, Boiled, 193. 
Rabbit, Economical, 194. 



too 



rNDEX. 



Rabbit, Pie and Pudding, IM. 

Rabbit, Roast, 193. 

Radishes, to Boil, 233. 

Raspberry Jam, 256. 

Raspberry Vinegar, 268. 

Raspberry Wine, 265. 

Kats and Mice, 3.58, 359. 

Razors, 349. 

Rebuses, 393. 

Receipts for Money, 377. 

keel, the Highland, 342. 

Refrigerants, 131. 

Refusal, 335. 

Relishes, 217,251. 

Rheumatic Headache, 40. 

Rheumatism, 88. 

Rhine Wine, 266. 

Rhubarb, 128. 

Rhubarb, to Preserve, 254. 

Ribbons, to Smooth, 288. 

Rice, Boiled, 242. 

Rice Sauce, 212. 

Ringworm, 35. 

Roasting, 165. 

Roast Duck, 190. 

Roast Fowls, 187. 

Roast Goose, 187. 

Roast Grouse, 192. 

Roast Partridges, 192. 

Roast Pheasant or Guinea Fowl, 

192. 
Roast Turkey, 186. 
Roast Wild Duck, 192. 
Roast Woodcock, 193. 
Room, Dark, to Light, 369. 
Rooms, to Beautify, 276. 
Rose Leaves, 127. 
Rubefacients, 131. 
Running up Stairs, 349. 
Rupture, 111. 



SAGE and Onion Seasoning, 
215. 
Salad, Lobster, 206. 
Salads, 229. 
Saleratus, 271. 
Salmon. 207. 
Salt Rheum, 36. 
Samphire, to Pickle, 226. 
Sandwiches, 204. 
Sarsaparilla, 130. 
Saucepan, The, 173. 
Sauce for Puddings, 242. 
Sauces, 210. 
Sausages, to Make and Cook, 

197. 
Savory Omelet, 252. 
Scalds and Burns, 97. 
Scammony, 129. 
Scarlatina, 30. 
Scent Bags for Linen, 292. 
Schottiscne. 341. 
Scollops, 209. 
Scotch Punch, 268. 
Scouring, 284. 
Scouring Drops, 287. 
Scrofula, 90. 
Scurvy, 91. 
Seidlitz Powders, 267. 
Senna, 128. 
Servants, 306. 
Seville Oranges, 131. 



Shad, 208. 

Sheep, to Find the Age of, 363. 

Sheep, to Pasture, 359. 

Sheep, to Make Own a Lamb, 

.353. 
Sheepskin Mats, 3.'i6. 
Sherbet, Lemon, 267. 
Shingles, 36. 
Shingle Roofs, 361. 
Shoe Soles, to Save, 362. 
Sialagogues, 130. 
Sick Headache, 39. 
Sickness of Stomach, 67. 
Silks, to Clean and Keep, 288. 
Silks, to Wash, 288. 
Silver Plate, to Clean, 283. 
Singing, Utility of, 147. 
Skin Diseases, 35. 
Sleep, 15. 

Sleep, How to Get, 147. 
Sleep Walking, 49. 
Sleeping Together, 149. 
Small-pox, 33. 
Smelts, 208. 

Smoky Chimneys, 280,367. 
Soap, to Make, 292. 
Soda Water Powders, 267. 
Sofas and Ottomans, 283. 
Soldering, 280. 
Somnambulism, 49. 
Sore Nipples, 83. 
Sore Throat, 33. 
Sounds and Tongues, 209. 
Soups, 198. 
Spanish Dance, 338. 
Spanish Flies, 131. 
Spasmodic Croup, 25. 
Speaking, Errors in, 307. 
Spectacles, When Required, 116. 
Speculation, Game of, 408. 
Spelling, Hints upon, 322. 
Spit, 172. 
Spleen, 66. 

Spirits of Mindererus, 130. 
Sprains, 104. 
Squashes, to Cook, 236. 
Squills, 130. 
Squinting, 28. 
Squinting, Cause of, 352. 
Staining, the Art of, 361, 373. 
Stains from Silver, 284. 
Stains, Fruit and SVine, 286. 
Stairs, Why Run up, 349. 
Starch, Gum Arabic, 292. 
Stewed Duck, 190. 
Stewed Giblets, 191. 
Stewed .Mushroom, 233. 
Stewed Oysters, 210. 
Stewed Tomatoes, 213. 
Stimulants, 122. 
Stock for Soups, 199. 
Stockings, Mending, 289. 
Stomach, Diseases of, 67. 
Store, Location of, 389. 
Storekeepers, Duties of, 390. 
Stoves, Economy of, 285. 
Stoves, to Temper, 285. 
Strawberry Jam, 2,57. 
Straw Bonnets, to Clean, 291. 
Strength of Man, 1,57. 
St. Vitus's Dance, 46. 
Styes, 114. 
Substitute for Cream, 269. 



Succotash, 236. 

Suet Crust for Pie and Pudding, 

244. 
Sulphate of Copper, 132. 
Sulphate of Potash, 129. 
Sulphate of Zinc, 127. 
Sulphur, 128. 
Sulphuric Ether, 123-125. 
Sunstroke, 45. 
Surgery, Domestic, 136. 
Sweetbreads, 198. 
Sweet Corn, 236. 
Sweet Sauce, 243. 
Swimming, the Art of, 156. 
Syrup, to Make a, 253. 

TABLE Cover, Oriental, 432. 
Table, Dining, 283. 
Table, to Preserve, 279. 
Tables of Weights and Measures, 

387 
Taffy, Everton, 259. 
Taffy, Plain, 259. 
Taking a House, 275. 
Taking a Store, 388. 
Tamarinds, 128. 
Tartar Emetic, 130. 
Tarts, Fruit, 246. 
Taste of New Wood, to Remove, 

357. 
Tatting Edging, etc., 437. 
Tatting Infant's Cap, 438. 
Tatting, Instructions in, 436. 
Tea, Camomile, 271. 
Tea, Economy of, 268. 
Tea Loaves, 273. 
Tea, Making, 268. 
Teapot, China, 281. 
Teeth, The, 62, 343. 
Teeth Set on Edge, 152. 
Teething, 23. 
Temperance, 148. 
Tenant, Rights of, 379. 
Terms Used in Medicine, 133. 
Tetter, 36. 
Throat Diseases, 31. 
Thrush, 24. 

Time and Distance Table, 385. 
Tincture of Lemon Peel, 271. 
Tired Mothers, 302. 
Toast, Anchovy, 252. 
Toast, Buttered, 252. 
Toasted Cheese, 252. 
Tobacco, Effects of, 162. 
Tob.acco in Lead Wrappers, 361. 
Toe-Nail, Ingrowing, 105. 
Toilet Cushion, 444. 
Toilet Requisites, 343. 
Tolu, 130. 

Tomatoes, to Keep, 295. 
Tomato Jam, 256. 
Tomato Ketchup, 212. 
Tomato Sauce, 212. 
Tomato Soup, 202. 
Tomatoes, Stewed, 213. 
Tomatoes, to Can Whole, 256. 
Tonics, 125. 

Tool Chests, Family, 278. 
Toothache, 53. 
Tooth Powder, 344. 
Tragacanth, 133. 
Trout, 209. 
Tumors, 110. 



INDEX. 



491 



Turkey, Boiled, 186. 

Turkey, to Choose and Roast, 

186. 
Turkey, Hashed, 186. 
Turkeys, Raising, 355. 
Turnips, Mashed, 236. 
Turpentine, Oil of, 130. 
Turpentine, Venice, 129. 



LCERS, 94. 

Urine, Inability to Hold, 78. 



u 



VACCINATION, 35. 
Valerian, 125. 

Varicose Veins, 110. 

Varnishing, Flexible, 361. 

Varnishing Maps, etc., 280. 

Vase, Mat for, 442. 

Veal Cutlets, 183. 

Veal, Fillet of, 183. 

Veal and Ham Pie, 183. 

Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed, 184. 

Veal, Minced, 185. 

Veal Pie, 185. 

Veal, Ragout of, 185. 

Veal Sausages, 197. 

Vegetables, to Prepare and Cook, 
230. 

Vegetable Soup, 203. 

Velvet, to Restore, 289. 

Venice, Turpentine, 129. 

Venison, Haunch, etc., 194. 

Venison Pasty, 195. 

Ventilation, 15, 151. 

Vinegar, Raspberry, 268. 

Vinegar, Cider, etc., 214. 

Vingt-un, or Game of Twenty- 
one, 410. 



Visits, 297. 
Visiting the Sick, 155. 
Volatile Salt, 124. 
Vomiting, 67. 

WALKS of Cement, 359. 
Walking, 147. 
Walnuts, to Pickle, 225. 
Waltz, 339. 
Warts, 104. 

Washing, Hints About, 291. 
Watch, How to Take Care of, 

350. 
Water Brash, 67. 
Water Cress, to Stew, 233. 
Water, Hard, to Soften, 280, 370. 
Water Ices, 263. 
Waterproof Cloth, 370. 
Water, Sea, to Prepare, 375. 
Wa.x in the Ear, 56. 
Wax Flowers and Fruit, 417. 
Weather, Signs and Precautions, 

297. 
Welsh Rare Bit, 251. 
Wen, 110. 

Wheat for a Barrel of Flour, 360. 
Wheelbarrow, a New, 358. 
Whist, How to Play, 395. 
Whites, 81. 
Whitewashing, 360. 
Whitelow, 116. 
White Vitriol, 126, 127. 
Whooping Cough, 26. 
Wife's Power, 299. 
Wild Duck, Roast, 192. 
Wills, 382. 

Wine, Blackberry, 264. 
Wine, Champagne, 264. 



Wine, Champagne, Mock, 2M. 

Wine, Cider, 268. 

Wine, Currant, 265. 

Wine, Elderberry, 265. 

Wine, Family, 266. 

Wine, Ginger, 265. 

Wine, Grape, 265. 

Wine, Madeira, 265. 

Wine, Making, 263. 

Wine, Mulled, 268. 

Wine, Parsnip, 264. 

Wine, Raspberry, 265. 

Wine, Rhine, 266. 

Wine, Sauce, 212, 243. 

Wine, Turnip, 264. 

Wine Whey, 267. 

Winter Salad, 229. 

Wives, Hints for, 300. 

Woodcock, Roast, 193. 

Woollen Dresses, to Clean, 288. 

Woollens, to Wash, 287. 

Worcestershire Sauce, 213. 

Worms, 74. 

Wormwood, 125, 126. 

Wounds, 99. 

Wow Wow Sauce, 216. 

Wristlets, 348. 

Writing, Faded, to Restore, 352. 

Writing Letters, 320. 

YEAST, Making, 271. 
Yellow Fever, 87. 
Young Ladies, Advice to, 303. 
Youth, Health in, 149. 

7INC. 125. 

A Zinc, Chloride of, 132. 

Zinc, Sulphate of, 127. 



Index to Treatise Upon the Horse. 



PAGE 

Antidotes, etc 454 

Baldness 452 

Bota, Fundament 448 

Bote, Stomach 448 

Bowels, Inflammation of. 448 

Breeding _... 446 

Bronchitis 448 

Bruises, Liniment for. 454 

C!olic, Flatulent 449 

Colic, Spasmodic 449 

Condition Powders 453 

Cuts and Sores, Cure for 463 

Debility 450 

Diabete«, Cure for 454 

Bikrrboea 460 



PAGE 

Distemper 450 

Diuretic and Tonic Ball 454 

Doses, etc 454 

Dropsy, Abdominal 447 

Dysentery 450 

Epizootic... 451 

Excellent Liniment 453 

Eye-Water 454 

Fever-Balls 454 

Food 447 

Oalled Shoulder 454 

Qalls and Bruises, to Heal 454 

Heaves 451 

Heaves, to Cure 451 



PAOS 

Hide-Bound 452 

Horse, Diseases of ~... 447 

Itch -45$ 

Kidney, Diseases of. 452 

Loss of Hair 452 

Lungs, Diseases of. 452 

Mange 453 

Pin-Worms 453 

Skin, Diseases of. 453 

Special Formulas 453 

Tape-Worm 453 

Thrush .~. 4M 



THE END. 



