
EMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 !riM IIIIIM 



I.I 



It m 112.0 



1.8 





1.25 


1.4 


1.6 




^ 6" _ 




► 



V2 



^ 



/a 



^h 






V^ o'ifc 



v> 



'.>. 



>> 




'/ 






/^ 



Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) 872-4503 




^ 

*" w 



W C^ 



w- 



CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



^ 



CSHM/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut ccnadien de microreproductions historiques 




©1984 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notes techniques et bibliographiq jes 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best 
original copy available for filming. Features of this 
copy which may be bibliographically unique, 
which may alter any of the images in the 
reproduction, or which may significantly change 
the usual method of filming, are checked below. 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a 6t6 possible de se procurer. Les details 
de cet exempiairo qui sont peut-dtre uniques du 
point de vue blbliographique, qui peuvent modifier 
une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la m6thode normale de filmage 
sont indiquds ci-dessous. 



□ Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 

□ Covers damaged/ 
Couverture endommag^e 

□ Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restaurde et/ou pelliculde 



□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 



n 



D 
D 



n 



Cover title missing/ 

Le titre de couverture manque 



□ Coloured maps/ 
Cartes gdographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

□ Coloured piates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



n 



Bound with other material/ 
Relid avec d'autres documents 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortiun 
along interior margin/ 

Lareliure serr6e peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distortion le long de la marge intdrieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajout^es 
lors d'une restauration npparaissent dans le texte, 
mais, lorsque cela dtait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas dt6 filmdes. 

Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires suppldmentaires; 



n 

n 




n 



Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommag6es 

Pages restored and/or laminatrol/ 
Pages restaurdes et/ou pelliculdes 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
Pages odcolor^es, tachetdes ou piqu^es 

Pages detached/ 
Pages d^tachees 

Showthrough/ 
Transparence 

Quality of print varies/ 
Qualitd indgale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material/ 
Comprend du matdriel supplementaire 

Only edition available/ 
Seule Edition disponible 



Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, 
etc., ont 6t6 film^es i nouveau de fagon d 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est film6 au taux de reduction indiqu6 ci-dessous. 

10X 14X 18X 22X 



n/ 



12X 



!fX 



20X 



26X 



30X 



24X 



28X 



32X 



The copy filmsd here has been reproduced thanks 


• 

L'exemplaire film^ fut reproduit grace d la 


to the generosity of: 


g6rArosit6 de: 


Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library, 


Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library, 


University of Toronto Library 


University of Toronto Library 


The images appearing here are the best quality 


Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 


possible considering the condition and legibility 


plus grand soin. compte tenu de la condition et 


of the original copy and in keeping with the 


de la nettat^ de l'exemplaire film6, et en 


filming contract specifications. 


conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 



filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — ^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END") 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



1 


2 


3 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
^upier est imprimde sont film6s en commencant 
par le premier pla{ et en terminant soit par la 
derniire page qui cnmporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, salon le cas. '''ous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont film^s en commencant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de chaque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole -^ signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symbole V signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre 
film6s d des taux de reduction d'ff^rents 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est film6 d partir 
de Tangle sup6rieur gauche, de gauche & droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la m^thode. 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



i;i 



^ 



TTT 



^Hfi^ftmBmmmimwwff 






¥^ 



«?»"5 a- E j^ s ^«^ 






-OF- 



aTa 





0© 



fier 



t 




'*?5i«;i 



• — A COLLECTION OF — 



ty^-. 



RELIABLE AND USEFUL 



Household Regipes' 



•4» ••» •••* 






-PUBLISHED BY- 



F. JORDAN. 



Dispensing Chemist, 



MEDIC/\L HALL, 



GODERIGIi, ONT/\lllO. 



4 



v«<» 



iHii 



«■■«■ 




'!5»i,iWW 



ffmrwrnrr 



I WIl^PW^Fi^^PWi^ppi 



•ppi 




<i')W> 



,„.*a»f 




iWH«"i^ 



i^— •■»»»^«(P»i«^l|P 



'^ 



\ 



#"-» 



o 






Zrf'^'^A:: 



PREFACE. 




THIS little work, Gems of Fancy Cookery, was first 
published some time ago, and ran rapidly through 
three editions, being sold at 15 cents per copy. It was 
compiled chiefly from the columns of a household mag- 
azine that attained a high reputation for the reliability of 
its recipes. Every recipe used in this coUectio was 
practically tested. Since the work has been out of print 
it has been repeatedly asked for, and in presenting it now 
in a revised form, adding some of the newest acquisitions 
of the culinary art, to our customers, we trust that its 
value will be duly appreciated. ./ ; 

F. JORDAN. 



co-.U'^s '; 



<\ > 



HOUSEKEEPERS' WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



2 teaspoonfuls = i dessertspoonful. 
2 dessertspoonfuls := i tablespoonful. 
2 tablespoonfuls = i ounce. 
2 cupful s = I p.nt. 
I quart flour = i pound. 
I tablespoonful salt = i jounce. 
- 4 tablespoonfuls =^ i wineglassful. 
4 wineglasses — i coffeecupful. 



Use exactly the quantity of baking powder specified in recipes. 

Too much is as bad as too little. 

Note.— Where baking powder is specified in these 
recipes, none but Jordan's Baking Powder should 
be used to ensure satisfactory results. 



♦ ■". 



i-,fc,>:-it,j* 



11 



Tf^'i ■ 



r ^ 



i!< .!;<;» Vf • ; .* 



BREAD, ETC. 

BREAD. 

Boil two good sized potatoes ; mash and strain 
through a colander ; add one quart of water, a piece ot 
butter the size of an egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt ; stir the flour into hot water, deat- 
ing it well to a stiff sponge. When just lukewarm add a 
small cake of compressed yeast, and set in a warm 
place to rise over night. In the morning knead th :>r 
oughly, adding flour until it kneads free and smooth ; set 
again to rise until li.sjht, then add more flour and. mould 
into loaves ; let them 
oven not too hot. 



rise again ; bake one hour in an 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Stir together three cupfuls water (cold) and one tea 
cupful of molasses. Stir in two cupfdls of wheat flour 
and three of cornmeal, six teaspoonfuls of Jordan's 
Baking Powder. Steam three full hours. 



i;^ 



i J 



BAKER'S ROLLS. 

Boii one pint of milk ; when hot add a piece of but 
ter the size of a hea's egg ; when the milk is lukewarm 
add the white of one egg, one-half cup of white sugar, 
one-half cup of yeast ; stir in flour enough to mould 
smooth, let it rise three times, moulding each time, then 
roll out to the thickness of your finger or less ; cut them 
the size you like ; butter one-half very slightly ; turn the 
other half over on to the buttered half; this keeps them 
from sticking together, and is the secret of their retaining 
their shape. After being properly placed in baking tins, 
set in a warm place sufficiently light, then bake quickly. 



/• % 



BREAKFAST ROLLS, No. i. 

Mix one-half of an ounce of sifted white sugar in 
two pounds of finest flour ; make a hole in the centre 
and put in about two tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast mixed 
with a little water ; let it stand all night ; in the morning 
add the yolks of two eggs, a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and sufficient warm milk to make a right con- 
sistency ; divide into rolls (about 13 or 14); bake half 
an hour in a brisk oven. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS, No. 2. 

Take a piece of bread dough that will make about 
as many rolls as you wish ; lay it out flat in a bowl ; 
break two eggs into it ; add half a cup of sugar and half 
a cup of butter; mix thoroughly with enough flour to 
keep it from sticking to the hands and board. Knead it 
well for about fifteen or twenty minutes ; make into 
small rolls ; place in a greased pan and let them rise un- 
til about even with the top of the pan ; then bake in a 
quick oven for about half an hour. 

BISCUITS. 
Into one quart of flour put two teaspoonfuls of 
Jordan's Baking Powder and a little salt, mix 
thoroughly, then rub in a piece of lard about the size of an 
egg ; mix into a soft dough with milk and water. Bake in 
a quick oven and serve hot. 

BROWN MUFFINS. 

Four cups Graham flour, three cups milk, two eggs, 
— whites and yolks beaten separately, one heaping table- 
spoonful sugar, butter half the size of an egg, one 
dessertspoonful Jordan's Bakin. Powder, and a 
little salt. Bake quickly in mufifm rings. If eggs can- 
not be obtained they are good even without them by 
using a little more baking powder. 

EGG BREAD. 
To one pint of cornmeal take two eggs, one-half 
tablespoonful of lard, and salt to taste ; four tablespoon- 
fuls of cider vinegar, mixed with boiling water enough to 
make the ireal into batter ; lastly stir in a teaspoonful of 



'^ I % 






soda. This recipe makes excellent egg bread without 
either buttermilk or cream of tartar. With cornmeal and 
flour, mixed half and half, delightful waffles and batter 
cakes can be made by the same receipt. 

MUFFINS. 
Add two well beaten eggs to a pmt of milk and pour 
over one quait of flour in which has been mixed and 
sifted half a cup of sugar, three teaspoonfuls Jordan's 
Baking Powder and a pinch of salt, and last pour 
in a tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat well and 
bake in a quick oven. 

SPANISH BUN. 
One egg, two cups sugar, three-quarters cup butter, 
two cups flour, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls 
Jordan's Baking Powder (three dessertspoonfuls cin- 
namon to be mixed with flour and baking powder); 
bake in small bread pan. 

SPANISH BUN— No. 2. 
One cup molasses, one cup melted butter, one cup 
brown sugar, one cup water, four eggs (reserve whites of 
two for frosting), three teaspoonfuls cinnamon, a little 
nutmeg, flour to make a stffl" batter, four teaspoonfuls 
Jordan's Baking Powder mixed with the flour ; last 
add a large cupful of chopped raisins. 

Frosting for Spanish Bun. — One cup brown 
sugar, whites of two eggs ; flavor with Jordan's Essence 
Vanilla. Brown slightly in oven. 






t 



CAKES. 

BANANA CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, two-thirds of a 
cup of milk, two eggs, two cups flour and two teaspoon- 
fuls of Jordan's Baking Powder. Bake in layers. 
Make a frosting. Spread each layer with the frosting,, 
and cover with sliced bananas. 



8 



N 



BOSTOxN CREAM CAKES. 
One-half pound buUer, three-quarters of a pound of 
flour, eight eggs, one pint of warm water. Stir the butter 
inU) the warm water ; set over the fire and stir to a slow 
boil. W'lien it boils put in the flour. Cook one minute, 
stirring cunstantly. Turn into a deep dish to cool. 
Beat the eggs light — yolks and whites separately — and 
whijj into the cooled paste the whites last. Drop in 
great si)oonfuls upon buttered paper, not so near as to 
touch, or run into each other. Bake about ten minutes 
in a quick oven, until they are of a golden brown 

Custards for Filling the Cakes. — One quart ot 
milk, four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, two eggs, two 
even cups of sugar, lemon or vanilla flavoring ; wet the 
cornstarch to a smooth paste with a little of the 
milk ; boil the rest of the milk ; add to the beaten eggs 
the sugar and cornstarch ; pour gradually upon these the 
hot milk ; mix well ; return to the fire and stir to a thick 
custard. Let it get cold before flavoring it. Pass a sharp 
knife carefully around the pufls — which should also be 
cold — split dexterously, and fill with the mixture. They 
are best when eaten fresh. 

CAKE WIT*HOUT EGGS. 
To one cup of sugar and one-half cup butter beaten 
together ; add one-half cup of molasses, one cup of 
milk, three and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of Jordan's Baking Powder. Add any kind ot fruit 
and spices desired. 

CHOCOLATE CAKES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, the yolks of five 
and whites of two eggs, one cup of milk, three and one- 
hair cups flour, two teaspoonfuls of Jordan's Baking 
Pov^DER sifted into the flour. Bake in jelly cake tins. 

MIXTURE FOR FILLING. 

Boil two cups granulated sugar till it becomes brittle 
when dropped into cold water ; then pour this boiling on 
the well-beaten whites of two eggs. Into this grate one 
bar of chocolate gradually, beating the mixture continually 



f" N 



OUR BAKING POWDER 

Is pure, of perfect strength, whole- 
some, made from the purest ingred- 
ients. It can always be relied 
upon to give satisfaction when used 
as directed. 






Will be found greatly superior to the majority of 
those on the market:— 



ROSE, 

ALMOND, 
LEPAON 

PINE 





STRAWBERRY, 

• Etc., Etc. ,:. 

AU OF UNIFORM QUALITY AND SI><.D FOItLESS THA|I INFEItlOl) EXTRACTS. 



N 



'N 












CO 

COFFEE CAKES. 

One cup sugar, one of molasses, three eggs, one cup 
of butter, one of strong coffee, one of raisins, two tea- 
spoonfuls soda, flour enough to make a batter not 
too stiff. Spice with cloves and cinnamon. 

CORN CAKE* 

One quart of sour milk, three well beaten eggs, one 
teacupful flour, yellow cornmeal enough to make a batter 
as thick as for pancakes. Bake quickly in pans well 
buttered. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Half a pint of boiling water and one cupful of butter ; 
let them come to a boil and stir in two cupfuls of flour ; 
let this cool, and then stir in five beaten eggs, and one- 
third of a teaspoonful of soda. Drop this in buttered 
tins, and when done, open the cakes and fill them with 
cream. 

The Cream. — Heat one pint of milk to boiling ; beat 
half a cupful of sugar, one-fourth of a cupful of flour, 
and two eggs well together. Pour the boiling milk grad- 
ually into this mixture, and then set it over the fire, and 
stir till it thickens. Flavor w»th lemon. 

CUP CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup ot sweet milk, two cups 

of sugar, three well-beaten eggs, four cups of sifted 

flour (always sift flour after measuring it), two teaspoon- 

fuls Jordan's Baking Powder sifted in the flour one 

cup of raisins, well dredged with flour. 

DONATION CAKE. 

The whites of three eggs m a teacup, fill up with 
'ich sour cream, half cup flour, half cup starch, one cup 
sugar, one teaspoonful soda ; stir all together. 

FRENCH CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, four eggs, one-half cup of butter, 
three cups of flour, two teaspoonful? Jordan's Baking 
Powder, and spice to taste. 



N 



II 



JOBDAK'S 

Stomach ^ Bitters 

A CHfiAP AJU EFFfiCTUAf. REMEDY FOR 

Loss of Appetite, 

Flatulency, 

Heartburn, 

AMD AU. fTW IIIEASES ARISING FROM 

DYSPEPSIA or 

INDIGESTION. 

It is partieularljr recommended to parties 
rcnoTeriB^ from 

FEVER and AGUE 

* 

Oiving a healthy tone to the Stomach and Liver and pre- 
venting a return of the disease. 

Prepared only at the medical Hall 

" F. JORDAN, 

Chemitt d. Druggist, ^ 

GODERICH. % . ONTARIO 



.;iy":%«sitiiv.iiii»K- 



12 



(' N 






1 



t! 



i I 

■1 



One cup of sugar, Half' ?l tup V)f"t)ut'tef, half a cup of 
milk, one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
Jordan's Baking 'Powder, the volks of four eggs. 
Beat-the butter and- sugar to a cr^npi, then add: the riiilk 
andjflourih which jhe baking poiwdtiU'' Has been 'mixed ; 
beat the yolks and stir in gently at the last. 

HENDERSON^ CA^:S.'^ ' 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one cup butter, four 
eggs — whites beat^jn separately, one cup milk, four cups 
flour, two teaspoonfuls Joi^dan's .Bakfnc; Powder one 
cup of currants. I'hi3 ''m'ake^two cakes. Put the cur- 
rants in one and bake tbe^pther without, and you have 
two kinds of nice cakfe out" of one dough. 

:\ , JELLY CAKE^i-.-. .. .v 
One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful butter ; two 
eggs, one tablespoonful cream, one ,cup,of -flourTatnd! two 
teaspoonfuls of Jordan's Ba'Kjkq A)wnER.; 1 " "^ <• 

JOKNN^ CAKE. 

Twp; Vell-b^at^nj^gg^, 0T>e cup of sour cream, one 
cup of milk, one teaspoonful soda, salt and cornmeal 
sufficient to make a. batter thfit wi.ll ^prea,d, o^v.er the drip- 
ping pan without usinga/spo.Qote smooth it. Bake in a 
-quick oven. 

• , X^EMON JELLY CAKE , j Z] 3 

One cup sugar, ^t\^ eggSj'plece'oY'yuHer about the 
size of a walnut, one-third of a cup of milk, one and 
one-half cups flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
Jordan's Baking Powder. Bake in layers. 

Jelly for Above.— Take the juice and grated rind 
of one lemon,, qne eg^,,sm^ll pieqe. Qf,butte,r, ,half cup 
sugar. Bolt all tdgether for two or three minutes ; when 
cool spread between layers. 

•LnTLE,PaJM' CAKES. . ' ^-^ 
Dry one pounds of flour and -mix with six ounces of 
finely-powdered sugar ; beat six ounces of butter to a 
cream, and add to three ieggs, well beaten, half a pound 



N 



of 
of 

js". 

ilk 



• 



13 

ot currants, washed and iiicciy dried, and the flour and 
sugar ; beat nil for some time : then dredge flour on tin 
plates, and drop batter on them the size of a walnut. It 
properly mixed, it will be a stiff past^. Bake in a brisk 
oven 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 
Put one cu[)ful granulated sugar in two tablespoonfuls 
of water, and boil till it is i)rittle when dropped in cold 
water. While this is preparing take one cupful iMiglish 
walnut kernels, chopi)ed fme, and one cui)ful raisins, 
chopped fine, and mix together in the well-beaten white 
of one egg, and stir this into the boiling^ sugar, and spread 
while warm between the layers made as for cocoanut 
cake. The layers may be pressed together if desired. — 
[Mrs. Beach. 

OATMEAL CAKES. ' "^ '" ' 

o- Two cu[)s oatmeal, one cup hour, one-quarter cup 
sugar, half cup butter and lard mixed, halt teaspoontul 
soda, and a little cold water. 

PEARL CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups ui sag.ir, two cups ot 
flour, one cup of corn starch, wh'tes ot five eggo, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Jordan's Baking Powder. B'\at tho 
whites thoroughly, put together quickly, and add one 
cup of sweet milk. ' . • , . ; 

'. i PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. ' • /' 

One-half pound currants, one-half pound raisins, 
one cup butter beaten to a cream, one cup sugar, one 
cup milk, tiiree cups flour, three eggs, two and one-halt 
teaspoonfuls Jordan's Baking Powder. Bake one 
hour in a slow oven. 

POTATO CAKE. 

■ Crush cold boiled potatoes with butter and salt ; add 
a goodly proi^ortion of flour, and Jordan's Baking 
Powder in the proportion of one teaspoonful to a cup ot 
tlour -. mix into a stiff dou^^n with a little milk ; roll it 
out to the thickness of one and a-half or two inches ; 
mark into squares. Bake half an hour in a quick oven. 






^4 

PUFF CAKE. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls Jordan's Baking Powder, one of lemon. 
When you get all the ingredients stirred together 
put m flour in which the baking powder has been mixed, 
and stir lightly. 

SILVER CAKE 

The same as Gold Cake, only the whites of the eggs 
used. ^ . 

SNOW SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half ups of sugar, one cup of flour, a 
pinch of salt, one teasj. onful cream of tartar, the whites 
of three eggs, beaten thoroughly ; mix flour, sugar and 
cream of tartar together, then add the beaten eggs. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, five eggs, five tablespoonfuls of 
milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Jordan's 
Baking Powder, and flavor as you please. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. 2. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water, one and one-half cups flour. Beat yolks of 
eggs and sugar together. Add the boiling water, then the 
flour, in which one and a-half teaspoonfuls Jordan's 
Baking Powder has been thoroughly mixed, and 
last add the whites of eggs, wnich have been well beaten. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, half cup 
sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls Jordan's Bakii\g Powder, one large 
cup chopped walnuts ; frost and mark in squares, 
and put half a nut on each square. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar and one pound good 
butter, rubbed to a cream ; next the well-beaten yolks of 
twelve feggs ; mix well before adding one-half pound 



f 



\ 



.t^^^^MttW.. 






f 



, N 



«5 

sifted flour: then one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two 
tablespoon fiils nutmeg, one teaspooHful cloves ; thtn the 
well whipped whites of twelve eggs, added a little ai a 
time with another one-half pound of sifted flour ; next 
two pounds well washed and then dried currants, dredged 
with flour ; three pounds of raisins, seeded, dredged with 
flour ; one-half pound of citron cut into slips, dredged \ 
at the last, one wineglass of good brandy. This receipt 
makes two large cakes. Bake two hours or longer in a 
moderately hot oven in deep tins lined with well but- 
tered paper. 

WHITE CAKE. 
Whites of four eggs, one large cup white sugar, one- 
half small cup butter, one small cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half small cups flour, one-half small cup corn starch, 
three teaspoonfuls of Jordan's Baking Powder. 
Beat long and well. Bake about three-quarters pf an hour 
slowly. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE, 
One cup of butter, two cups of while sugar, three cups 
of flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls Jordan's Baking Powder, whites of eight eggs, 
one pound raisins, and one-quarter pound citron, chopped. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 
One-half cup of butter, two cups sugar, three cups 
flour, one cup milk, two eggs. Stir all togethei without 
separating the eggs. Bake the same as jelly cake, and 
instead of jelly put frosting betv;een the layers ' 



COOKIES ETC. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups butter, three cups sugar, four eggs, six 
tablespoonfuls cream, one teaspoonful Jordan's Baking 
Powder. Sufficient flour. 

COOKIES— No. 2. 
Two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Jordan's Baking 
Powder, one scant cup sugar, half cup butter, one 
egg. Flavor with Jordan's Essence Vanilla. 



■■^■-.jgi-h-v-^ 



[«?> 



^w 



16 



CORN STARCH COOKIKS 

Two cups of sugar, ouc cup Initter, two eggs, one 
cup milk ; add the starch, then the tlour, in which first 
mix two teaspoonfuls Jordan's Bakin(; Powder. 

gin(;er cookies. 

One cu[) of milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of lard, two teas})oonfuls of soda ; flour 
enough to roll hard ; bake quickly. Put the soda into 
the molasses and stir thoroughly before adding the other 
ingredients. •. . ., . -.,'r ■• 

RURAL COOKIES. . 

Break an egg in a teacup, put in three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one of sour cream, a little bit of soda, 
then fill up with sugar ; mix soft ; bake in a quick oven. 

STERLINO COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, tA'o cups ot sugar, half a cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful Jordan's Baking Powder; 
flour ; mix soft. ,..,., 

VANILLA COOKIES. 

A cu])ful of butter, a cupful of sugar, one egg, j:wo tea- 
spoonfuls Jordan's Baking Powder, half a cupful of 
milk (scant measure), flour till stiff enough to roll 
without trouble ; flavor with vanilla. Roll thin ; sprinkle 
sugar over and roll again ; cut out, and bake in a quick 
oven. ' ' "• ' ■ "^ '■-" ' ' - -." " '. ■■ • -; ^v^;',-'^ 

DOUGHNUTS. , ,., . -v \a: , 

One cup sugar, one' egg, one cup milk, three tea- 
spoonfuls Jordan's Baking Powder, one large 
tablespoonful of melted lard, a little salt and nutmeg, and 
flour to roll out. Fry in hot lard. 

GINGER SNAPS. 
Melt a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of 
a pound of lard and mix them with a quarter of a pound 
of brown sugar, one pint of molasses, two tablespootifuls 
of ginger and one quart of flour. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
Take one quart of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one egg, turn in fl6ur tp-make a stiff batter ; grease 




y 

t 
t 
c 



: 



< 



N 



17 

your pan ; haye some water in a cup ; dip your spoon in 
this water, then Hfta spoonful of batter ; by doing which 
the batter will not stick to. your spoon ; bake in a hot 

o^e^- .. ■• •• ... ■ ' ,.;• ...,...■. .! ■-..;.. -r 

,,• . • • . . . MACAROONS. ' •• •■ 

Blanch four ounces of almunds and pound withflour 
teaspoonfuls of orange tTower water. Whisk the whites 
of four eggs to a froth ; then mix it and one pound of 
sugar sifted with the almonds to a paste. Roll into litte 
balls the size of a hickory nut and bake them on a piece 
of white paper one inch apart in a very moderate oven. 

POP-OVERS. 
One pint sifted flour, one and one-half teaspoonful 
Jordan's Baking Powder, one tablespoonful of salt, 
a large teaspoonful of melted butter, and, lastly, two 
.eggs, beaten very light ; bake in gem-pans. 

. SOFT GINGERBREAD. 
One-half cup of butter, one cup cf molasses, two 
teaspoonfuls of ginger, or one teaspoonful each of cassia 
and ginger, one egg, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in four tablespoonfuls 
of milk, with flour to make about the consistency of 
pancakes. , • , 



JELLIES. . - •" - 

^ • -~ . APPLE JELLY. 

' Take juicy apples ; takeoff the stems and blossom 
eyes ; cut up in small pieces without peeling or coring. 
Put enough cold water on to just cover them ; boil slowly 
until they are quite soft ; drain through a jelly bag if 
you want the jelly very fine; if not, squeeze the juice 
out, and to each pint of juice add a pound of white 
sugar, and boil about twenty minutes, till it wUl gelatinize 
on cooling ; then pv, c in jelly jars and cover with paper 
dipped in white of egg. 



JRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Boil u peck of crab apples for two hours in just 
enough water to cover them ; put them in a jelly bag to 
drain, but do not squeeze; then add a pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice and boil half an hour. Put i vay in 
jelly pots, and cover with brandied paper, and tic thick 
paper over the top. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Put one quart of cranberries, which have been care- 
fiilly picked over, to boil in one pint cold water ; have 
ready in a bowl one pint white sugar ; when the cran- 
bemes are perfectly soft, mash them while hot through 
<J colander into the bowl which contains the sugar, and 
>tir until the sugar is dissolvea ; then pour into moulds, 
and set in a cool place for twenty-four hours. If the 
cranberries are good and no more water is used than the 
r cipe calls for, this way of cooking them makes beau- 
tiful moulds for the table. 

GRAPE JAM. 

Take any quantity of grapes ; separate the pulps 
from the skin ; put the pulp in a preserving kettle with a 
teacupful of water ; bring to a boil ; then run them 
through a colander to separate the seeds ; put pulp and 
skins together and weigh ; to every pound add three- 
quarters of a pound of white sugar ; add merely enough 
wat?r to keep it from burning, and cook slowly three- 
quarters of an hour. 

JELLY FOR CAKE. 

One quart cranberries, one pound brown sugar ; cook 
as for table use, then sirain through a sieve and let stand 
until c ^Id. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Grate one whole lemon, taking out the seeds ; -add 
one egg, one cupful white sugar, four tablespoonfuls cold 
water ; mix well together and cook over steam until it is 
clear ; put in cups and set in a cool, dry place ; it will 
keep four or five weeks. 



f 



. 



Uu>i£li.' 



«9 



DISPENSING 



•itiiiiiiiiiiilfititiiiiiiiiflfiitttifMiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifaitiiiatiiiiftiiiiiititiii 



Our Dispensing Department is fitted up not 
only to make it convenient, but so as to render 
anything but wilful mistakes morally impossible > 
under the close supervision we keep over it. None 
but experienced hands are allowed to dispense ; 
and the quality of the drugs is always the best. 



SEND YOUR PRESCRIPTIOfIS TO 



F. JORDIiN'8 MEDIGHL HilLL, 



The Oldest Establislied in the Country. 



!!■■■•■ Nl I 



y'l 



20 

If 



^ 
1 



Eight sweet orangej^, t\vo* leni6ns, dne-qiltirttr po'iind 
ff sugar, one ouncs: of gelatine, one gill of cold water. 
Joak the gelatine in lialf the water ten minutes ; })ut it 
Into a saucepan, add the sugar and the remainder of the 
u-ater, and stir all over the fire until the gelatine and the 
sugar melt. Take the saucepan from'the fire, jne^sout 
(ind strain the juice of the oranges and lemons into it ; 
i-tir it up and pour into a mould and stand it on ice till 
it becomes jelly j turn on a jelly plate and serve. 



HEATS, Eli. • 

BEI^F CAKES. 

Take some cold roast ])eef— that which is underdone 
is best — and mince it very fine ; mix with it grated bread 
crumbs and a little chopped onion and par^ley ; season 
it with some beef drij^ping and walnut sauce ; some 
scraped cold tongue or grated ham will be found an im- 
provement ; form it into broad flat cakes, and spread a 
layer of mashed potatoes thinly on the top and bottom of 
Oach ; lay a small bit of butter on the top of every cake ; 
()lace them on a dish, and set them in the oven to brown 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two large cold fowls, boiled with yolks of nine 
hard boiled eggs, half, a pint of cream, half a pint of 
vinegar, a gill of mixed mustard, a small teaspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, a small teaspoonful of salt, two large 
heads of celery. Cut the chicken and celery into inch 
pieces, cover and set away ; mash the yolks of eggs per- 
fectly smooth ; mix with vinegar, mustard, cayenne pep- 
per and salt a long time together. Cover and set it 
away, and five minutes before it is eaten pour the dress- 
ing o^^er the chicken and celery, and mix v/ell together. 

CODFISH CAKES. 

Soak three pounds salt codfish in cold water till it 
comes to a boil ; pour off the water; if too salt for the 
taste add fresh cold water ; don't let it boil ; when 




ly 



i 



soaked sufficiently remove all bones and skin and chop, 
fine in a chop|)ing bowl. I>oil eight white |)()tat()es till 
done ; drain off water ; mash very fine ; atld one-half 
cupful milk, less than one-half cuj^ful butter, salt in pro- 
portion to the freshness of the fish, beat well witli a 
spoon and add to the tlsh, mixing thoroughly, using more 
potatoes than fish ; roll with the hands into small romid 
cakes an inch thick, and fry a rich brown in very hot lard. 

FAVORl'lE MEAT PIE. 

Take cold roast beef, or roast meat of ai^y kind ; slice 
it thin ; cut it rather small, and lay it, wet with gravy and 
sufficiently pe[)pered and salted, in a meat pie dish. If 
liked, a small onion may be chop[)ed fine and s[)rinkled 
over it. Over the meat pour a cupful of stewed toma- 
toes, a little more pepper, and a thick layer of mashed 
potatoes. Bake slowly in a moderate oven till the top is 
a light brown. This makes a very good dish, and is p ve»y 
great favorite wnth parties who do not usually like meat pie. 

GOOD WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 
Take three or four chicken, and, after cleanmg and 
washing them well in cold water, split them down the 
back ; break the breast bone and unjoint the wings to 
make them lie down better; put them in a large bread- 
pan and sprinkle pepper, salt and flour over them ; put 
a large lump of fresh butter on each chicken ; pour boil- 
ing water in the pan and set in the oven. Let them cook 
till very tender and a rich brown color ; then take out on 
a large platter, put on more butter, set in the oven to 
keep warm ; put some sweet cream in the pan, and add 
as much hot water as you think necessary for the quantity 
of gravy you desire — the more cream and the less water 
the better the gravy Thicken wnth flour; put a pint of 
gravy on the chickens. They must be put on the table 
very hot. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTS. 

Chop fine the meat of a well boiled lobster, add pep 
per, salt and mace, if liked ; mix with this one-fourth as 



f 



N 



aa 

much bread crumbs as you have meat, with two table> 
spoonfuls of melted batter ; form into balls, roll these in 
beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

MINCE-MEAT WITH TOMATOES. 

Take cold roast or boiled meat and chop it fine with 
about an equal quantity of ripe tomatoes ; season with 
an even teaspoonful of pepper, a heaping teaspoonful of 
salt ; spread a layer of bread or cracker crumbs in a 
pudding-dish ; put in the mince-meat and tomatoes ; 
opiead a thick layer of bread crumbs on the top, with a 
little butter, and pour over a teacupful of water. Bake 
it one hour, and you will have a delicious dish. Cold 
gravy mixed with warm water, or a cup of stock, is nicer 
iox moistening than water. Butter enough should be 
used to make the top brown, like scalloped oysters. 

OYSTER PATTIES IN.BATTER. 

Ma' a batter with the yolk of one egg, (or more, ac 
cording tO the quantity of oysters you intend to prepare), 
a little nutmeg, a little flour, and a little salt ; dip in the 
oysrters, and fry them in lard to a nice light brown. If 
preferred, a little parsley may be shred very fine and 
mixed among the batter. The batter may also be made 
thicker, and formed into the shape of a patty, or put into 
a small tin mould, the oysters being dropped in and cov- 
ered over, and the whole baked as a pudding would be. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Put two quarts of oysters in the saucepan with the 
liquor, and when they begin to boil skim them out and 
add a pint of cream or rich milk and seasoning ; skim 
well ; add to the oysters butter to taste, and pour the hot 
liquor over them and serve. 

SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Fry one poui.d of sausage. Make a good biscuit 
dough ; roll each sausage in a small piece of the dough 
rolled thin. Bake until a nice brown. Save the sausage 
gravy to be eaten with rolls. Nice for tea. 



I 



,1 



( 



\ 



23 

SMOTHERED CiilCKEN. 

I>;ess a chicken, cutting open at the back, as far 
boIHng; lay in a baking pan, the outside upwards; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and a lump of butter here 
and there ; plenty of water for basting • then cover 
tightly with another pan ; baste often ; bake one hour. 
Make gravy in the ordinary manner. This way of cook- 
ing gives them a flavor not obtained in any other way. 

STUFFING FOR A TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Take some bread crumbs and turn on just hot water 
enough to moisten them ; put in a piece of butter, not 
melted, the size of a hen's egg ; add a spoonful of pul- 
verized sago, a teaspoonfal of ground pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; mix thoroughly, and stuff your bird. 



PIES. ETC. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE— No. i. 

« 

Peel sour apples ; stew until tender and not much 
water left on them, then -rub them through a colander ; 
for each pie beat three eggs ; add one-third cup of but- 
ter, and one-third cup of sugar \ season with nutmeg and 
lemon. When done frost and put into the oven a few 
minutes. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE— No. 2. 

To one pint of new milk add three grated sweet 
apples, two eggs, a little salt, and sugar and nutmeg to 
the taste. An under crust required. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE— No. 3. 

Stew sour apples until soft, and press through a col- 
ander ; use the y v^lks of three eggs, butter size of an egg, 
with sugar and seasoning to taste for each pi-e; spread 
whites over the top when baked. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up a chicken, boil it until tender ; take out the 
meat ; simmer down the gravy to a pint ; add three pints 
milk and one-half pound butter, two tablespoonfuls of 



fii^Siii^, 



jsi?^ 



9mm 



mfmmfim^nimmmimmmm'ift 



«■■■ 



mmmmm 



24 



r,^ 



•• 



flour, a little salt ; bring the gravy to a boil ; line a tin 
pan with a cru.st niade by taking one-fourth as much but- 
ter as sour milk, and a little soda and Hour to make a 
nice paste ; line the tin pan, put in the meat, pour over 
it the gravy put on a top crust, leave a vent ; bake two 
hours and a-half. . • • - . . 

•- COCOANUT PIE— No. i. ' 
One cup sugar, one and one-half cups milk, one table- 
spoonful butter, the rind of one lemon, cocoanut finely 
grated ; the crust should be the same as for custard pie. 

COCOANUT PIE— No. 2. 

One quart new milk, three eggs, one tablesp>>onful of 
butter, two of sugar, and a pint of grated cocoanut, 
which should be fresh. Bake like custard pie. 

, CRANBERRY PIE. 

One quart cranberries chopped, two cups sugar, one- 
half cup molasses, one tablesnoonful corn starch, dissolved 
in a little cold water, to whicl> add one and a-half cups 
boiling water, and add to the other ingredients one drop 
extract rose ; bake with top cyust. This makes four 
medium-sized pies. .... 

a<EAM PIES. 

The yolks of two eggs mixed with half a teacupful of 
corn starch and a little milk stirred into one quart boil- 
ing milk ; sweeten and flavor to taste. Beat the whites 
of the eggs with a little pulverized sugar and spread over 
tops of pies. 

CREAM PUFFS. ^ V 

Half pint boiling w^ater, two-thirds cup butter ; boil 
water and butter together ; one and a-half cups flour 
stirred in while boiling ; let this cool and then add five 
well beaten eggs. Bake twenty minutes in a quick 'oven. 
When cold open and put in cream. 

Cream for Puffs. — One cup sugar, one-third cup 
flour, one pint milk, two eggs ; boil milk, beat sugar, 
eggs and flour together, and stir into milk while boiling ; 
boil until thickened ; flavor with • Jordan's Extract 
OF Vanilla. ' •- 



I 



I 



:!P54?^^fe*S!SS-ti 



1' I ' I liitfflaiir'imiiiiatlliliit'ittiiiiii 



n 
t- 

la 

ro 



f '1 



I 



I 



. 25 



i GliflSGOCU HOUSE 

■ . - : 1 . I. .» .* ■ .• * .. , , , ; " 

m 



GENERAL AND FANCY DRYGOODS. 



ART \E:EI>L]^ work a SPEriALTY. 



materials for Fancy Ulork in End-" 

less Variety. 

INSTliVCTIoy SGIV EN n If EN NECESSARY. 



IV|aritle and Table Drapes Ready Stamped for 

Embroidery, 

STAMPING DONE TO ORDER. 
THE MILLINERY DEPARTMENT 

IS UNDER THE COM PETENT M ANACi EMENT OF 

7VTISS" DONOUGH, 

And our patrons can depend on getting the latest styles. 

Hats'Remodelied and Retrimmed and made to look as 

good as new. 

W IPPECTION GORDIflLLY INyiTEO 
MRS. R. B.SMITH, 






1% 



'^4^ >i 




( 



^ 



26 



LEMON CREAM PIE. 

TTie juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup oi 
white sugar, the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of sifted flour, milk to fill the plate. This makes a large 
pie, and should be made with an under crust, but not 
any top crust. Bake until nearly done, then take from 
the oven, and pour over it a frosting made of the beaten 
whites of the two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar; then set back in the oven and brown 
slightly. One of the best pies ever eaten. 

, LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon to which add 
nearly a cup of sugar and piece of butter half the size of 
an egg ; into one cup of boiling water stir one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, beaten with the yolks of two 
eggs ; bake with an under crust, and when done, spread 
over the top the whites beaten stiff, with a little powdered 
sugar, and return to the oven to brown. 

PIE-CRUST. 

One cupful lard, one cupful butter, one cupful cold 
water, four cupfuk flour and a pinch of salt ; mix the 
lard with the flour and add the water ; then roll in the 
butter, which should be in small solid pieces. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Grate a pineapple ; cream half its weight of butter 
with its weight of sugar, add the yolks of four eggs 
beaten light ; then add a cup of cream ; bake with an 
under crust, with the beaten whites of the eggs on top, 

PUFF PASTE. 

Into two pounds of flour mixed with sufficient ic« 
water (abo itone cup) and a little salt roll one pound of 
butter taken off ice ; cut the butter into pieces about an 
inch square, and be careful not to handle paste more 
than is necessary. Keep paste on ice till ready to put in 
oven. 



r 



^ 



W 



RICE CUSTARD. 

Into a quart of boiling water stir two tablespoonfula 
of rice flour, dissolved in a little cold milk ; add two 
well beaten eggs to boiling mixture ; sweeten and flavor 
to taste. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

Line a pie plate with a good crust, and fill with a 
mixture of on , cup of ripe crushed currants, one cup of 
sugar, two spoonfuls of water, one spoonful of flour 
mixed smooth with the beaten yolks of two eggs ; bake ; 
cover with a meringue made of the whipped whites of 
the eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Returri to the oven to brown. 

SILVER PIE. -,v 

One large potato, peeled and grated ; add the juice 
and rind of a lemon to the white of an egg, well beaten ; 
add one cup of sugar and one cup of water ; beat well 
together and bake in a dish, with one crust. When done, 
beat the whites of three eggs with half a cup of fine 
sugar, and pour over the top and set it in the oven to 
brown. 

SLICED APPLE PIE. 

Line the pie-pan with crust, sprinkle with sugar, fill 
with tart apples sliced very thin, sprinkle sugar and a 
very little cinnamon over them, and add a few small bits 
of butter and a tablespoonful of water ; dredge in flour, 
cover with the top crust, and bake half to three-quarters 
of an hour ; allow four or five tablespoonfuls sugar to 
one pie. Or line pans with crust, fill with sliced apples, 
put on top crust and bake ; take off" top crust, put in 
sugar, bits of butter and seasoning ; replace crust and 
serve warm. It is delicious with sweetened cream. 

/ SUMMER MINCE PIES. 

One cup raisins, chopped fine, one nutmeg, two cups 
water ; tablespoonful cinnamon, two cups sugar, butter 
the size of an egg, one-half cup vinegar, eight crackers 
colled fine : cook well together before baking. 



•mmn'm 



28 



^ 



VTNF.OAR PTE. 

. Two cups o*" .sugar, two ru]is of water, three-fourths 
cup of vinegar, and four tahlespoonfuls of flour ; mix 
well and bring to a boil, then flavor with lemon, and 
bake with two rrusts. This quantity will make four pies. 

PII«1>IN«S. ETr. 

APPLE TAPIOCA. 
Take one-half a teacii]iful of ta])iora, soak in a pint 
of cold water or milk on the bark of the stove where it 
will simmer, for two hours, stirring occasionally ; line a 
pudding dish, with slices of apples : pour over them the 
tapioca, to which has been added a reacupful of sugar 
and a little salt. Bake half an hour. Flavor with 
Jordan's Essence Vanilla or Eemon. 

BREAD PUDDTNCx. 
To one quart milk, new or not skimmed, take two 
eggs, and three large spoonfuls of sugar, nicely beaten 
and mixed together; then crumb in bread and crusts 
until the deep, brown earthen dish is nearly full, press 
all the dry bread in under—have no dry bits sticking 
above; scatter in a few raisins if you like: sprinkle 
sugar over the top ; set the dish in a hot oven and bake 
half an hour. When cold put in dessert dishes with 
three or four sj)oonfuls of sweetened cream over each 
one, and a little grating of nutmeg on the top. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING 
For a pint of cold milk allow three eggs, five spoon- 
fuls of flour, six medium-sized, fair apples, and a small 
teaspoonful salt. Pare the apples, and take out the 
cores ; arrange them in a buttered dish that will just re- 
ceive them — one in the centre and five around it. Wet 
the flour smooth in part of the milk, then add the eggs, 
and beat all together a few minutes : then ])ut in the salt 
and the rest of the milk. Stir it well, and pour it into 
the dish of apples. Bake it an hour and make a melted 
sauce For a large family, make double the measure : 
but bake it in two dishes, as the centre apple of a large 
dish will not cook as quickly as those around the edge. 



ggi^ 



f 



^ 



' 



S -il-'lt.:;- 



BATTER PUI>r)ING. 



' '6ne "eggV one cup' milk, one cup sugar, two and a 
half cups ffoiir' 'three teaspoohfuls Jordan's Baking 
Powder ; "steam three-quarters of an liour. • . 

•-^' "CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup carrot,^ grated, one .cup potatoes, grated, one 
cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup suet, one cup 
sugar, one and one-luilf '•u[)s flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
Jordan's Baking Powder ; flavor to suit. Steam ui boil 
two hours. 



V, 



• • ' •'• CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Scald together a quart of milk and three ounces of 
grated chocolate. Set it aw^iy until cold, and then add 
the beaten yolks of five eggs and one cu}) of sugar. 
Bake about twenty five minutes. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth ; spread over the top of the pudding, 
and brown them slightly in the oven. This pudding 
should be served very cold. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

To the grated meat of a cocoanut take six eggs, six 
large spoonfuls of sugar, half a teacupful of butter and 
a little soda. Line a dish with puff paste and fill with 
the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One-half pound bread crumbs, one-quarter pound 
suet, one-half pound dates, five ounces brown sugar, a 
little nutmeg, a little salt ; mix well together with two 
eggs, and boil for two and a-half hour' Serve with 
sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-quarter pound bread crumbs, one-quarter pound 
suet, one-quarter pound brown sugar, one-quarter pound 
figs chopped fine, one-quarter pound caiulied citron and 
lemon peel, five eggs. Boil or steam three hours. 



30 

MAIZE PUDDING. 
To two cupfuls of cold hominy add three cupfuls of 
chopped apples, the juice of two lemons, one-third of a 
cupful of sugar, and two-thirds of a cupful of cur- 
rants. Mix very thoroughly, being sure not to have any 
himps of cold hominy. Bake an hour or more in a mod- 
erate oven, or until of a light brown. Serve cold 

MRS. LARCONI'S BLACK PUDDING. 

A cupful of chopped suet, a cupful of molasses, a 
cupful of sour milk, a cupful of raisins, chopped a little, 
a teaspoonful of soda, a small teaspoonful of soda, a 
small teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
from two to three cupfuls of flour. Steam three or four 
hours in your pudding boiler, and eat with sweet sauce, 
or cream. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Take one quart milk, half cup rice (boiled), four 
tablespoonfuls sugar, four eggs; havor. Put milk and 
sugar in saucepan and let it come to a boil ; then stir in 
the rice which has been mixed with the beaten yolk ; let 
this boil two or three minutes ; beat the whites to a froth; 
mix with them two tablespoonfuls sugar; place on top 
of the rice, and put in the oven to brown. 

ROLY-POLY PUDDING. 

Take a quart of flour, rub into rt three tablespoonfuls 
of lard, roll it out and cut into four pieces ; place a lump 
of butter on each ; flour well ; place one above another, 
then roll out again six inches wide and twelve long ; take 
some preserve (plum is best), spread it on pretty thick ; 
wet the edges of the paste to make it stick closely, then 
roll it over and over tie it up securely in a well-floured 
cloth ; boil two hours, and serve with nice melted butter, 
or cream and sugar. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

The juice of two lemons, one cup white sugar, whiter' 
of three eggs, half a package of gelatine ; let the gela- 
tine soak half an hour in a pint of cold water ; then 



f 



I*. 



r ^ 31 



throw off that and add a pint of boiling water. Beat the 
egf^s and sugar well ; then add the lemon and gelatine, 
and beat until it looks like snow. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Soak one cup of tapioca in water over night, and put 
on to boil in a quart of milk ; when boiling stir in the 
well-beaten yolks of three eggs and a little sugar ; when 
done stir in the well-beaten whites of the three eggs ; 
serve cold with cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING— No. 2. 
One cup of tapioca, one quart of hot water ; soak 
two or three hours. Pare and core six large apples, put 
them in an earthen dish ; fill the holes left by the cores 
with sugar ; pour over all the prepared tapioca, and bake 
until the apples are done ; eat with sugar, nutmeg and 
cream or milk. The coarse tapioca is just as good, only 
it does not look as nice ; or sago will make just the same 
kind in appearance. 

THE OUEEN OF PUDDING. 
One and a-half cups white sugar, two cups fine bread 
crumbs, five eggs, one tablespoonful butter, flavor with 
Jordan's Extract Vanilla, one quart fresh rich milk; 
bake in buttered pudding dish; when custard is set 
draw to mouth of the oven ; spread with jelly ; cover this 
with meringue made of the whipped whites and half cup 
sugar ; bake till the meringue begins to color. Eat cold 
with cream. 

VICTORIA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one pint bread crumbs, one tea- 
cup white sugar, four eggs ; flavor with Jordan's Extract 
Vanilla. Bake until light brown ; then spread 
with currant jelly, cover with meringue made with the 
'vhites of two of the eggs ; return to oven and brown 
lightly 

VICTORIA PUDDING— No. 2. 

One pint of bread crumbs to one quart of milk, one 
cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, the grated 



r 




^^ 



^ »r 



32 



f*«S -f 



r,*- 



rind of a lemon, butter siz6 of an egg. Rake until done, 
but not watery ; beat the whites of eggs ^tiff with a little 
sugar, in which ha^ , been, stii;red th^, juice of the lemon. 
Spread over the, pudding a layer of jelly or any kind ot 
preserves. Pour the whites over this and replace in the 
oven ; bake lightly. To be eaten with cream. , . 

..„,.. YORKSHIRE PUDDIN-G. • „/". 

One and a-half pints milk, three eggs, saltspoonful 
salt, six large tablespoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful 
Jordan's Baking Powder; pour into a shallow pan, 
in which there is some beef drippings. Bake twenty 
minutes. . 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Take one cup of sour cream to two cups of butter- 
milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of salt ; make 
with these a nice light dough, roll and cut it as for larg.- 
sized biscuit, then roll the biscuit as for pie-crust ; have 
your apples quartered and steamed until tender; place 
them on the dough, sugar and spice ; then gather the 
edge together and press and tuck in firmly ; roll in the 
hand to shape them a little long . lay them smooth side 
up in a bake pan ; moisten over the top with sweet cream 
and sugar flavored with lemon. They are very good made 
of dried apples, nicely stewed, sugared and spiced. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Peel the apples, take out the core, and fill full of 
sugar ; make a crust as for rich cream biscuit ; divide it 
in pie ces large enough to cover each apple separately ; 
roll it about a quarter of an inch thick ; place the apple 
on and bring the edges together the same as in any other 
dumplings. Place them side by side in a pudding pan, 
spread butter and sugar over them, and pour boiling water 
to about half cover the dumplings. Put them in the oven 
and cook moderately fast until they are nicely browned 
Eat with cream. / . 

ENGLISH DUMPLING. 
Take some yeast and make a very light dough, the 
same as for bread, using milk, however, instead of water 



f 



\ 



( 



N 



/ 



< 



^3 



add salt, put it by the fireTTOvereS in a pan for half an 
hour or more, to rise : after this is done, roll up the 
dough in small balls, and boil them for ten minutes, then 
lake them out and serve directly with sauce over them. 
To know when they are done, stick a fork into one, and 
if it comes out clean they will do. A good method is to 
divide them from the top with two forks as they get heav\ 
by their own sleam, and eat them directly with meat, or 
sugar and butter. < . . 



PMKLES. 

CABBAGE PICKLES, .^;,.. .:,. 

One quart raw cabbage (white) chopped fine, one 
quart boiled beets, chopped fine, two cuus sugar, one 
tablespoon salt; one teaspoon black pc'pper ; one-quauei 
teaspoon red pe])per, one cup grated liorseradi-sh ; cover 
with cold vinegar and keep from the air. 

• . ^ MUSTARD ITCKLES..;-; • 

To one and a-half tjallons vine^rar Mut four ounces 
bruised ginger, two ounces whole allspice, one ounce 
whole cloves, one ounce garlic, one and a-half ounces 
chilies, two ounces turmeric, one ounce whole black pep- 
per, one pound Durham mustard; boil gently fifteen 
minutes ; rub the mustard and turmeric smooth in a little 
vinegar before putting on to boil ; pour a boiling hot 
brme over the cucumbers, etc., that you wish to pickle ; 
let stand twenty-four hours ; then place in fresh water 
for a few minutes ; then pour over them the boiling 



vmegar. 



PICKLED PEACHES. 



■ Allow seven pounds of fruit to .every four pounds 
of sugar, and one cjuart vinegar ; place cloves and cinna- 
mon in a bag and boil in vinegar ; when vinegar has 
come to a boil droj) in the peaches and let them remain 
till done but not soft. Seal while warm. 



.....#'■ 

W^^^- 






M 



TOILET ARTICLES. 



IlilMiniilililllllllllllililllDillltlllWttlllllllillllllMirllllllllinilllMIIIMI 

The largest and most varied stock in the Coun- 
try, consisting of every requisite for the toilet: — 

LUBIN'S, ATKINSON'S, RICKSECKER'S, 
COLGATE'S, Etc., Etc. 



^aitr Bt^ashes, Combs, 
Sponges, etc., etc. 

LUBIN'S and PEAKS' SOAP. 



INFANTS' REQUISITES: 

TOILET POWDERS, PUFFS and BOXES, 

CHAMOIS SKINS, BATH BRUSHES, 

BOTTLES, TEETHING RINGS, 

Etc., Etc. 



IVUCMI BE PROCURED AT 



F. JORDAN'S fWm HULL, 



GODERICH. 



f 



\ 



f 



\ 



35 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. * 

The small long kind are best for pickles, and those 
but half-grown are nicer than the full-grown. Let thena 
be freshly gathered, pull off the blossom, but do not rub 
them. Pour over them a strong brine boiling hot, cover 
closely, and let them stand all night. In the morning 
drain on a sieve, and dry them in a cloth. To each quart 
of best cider vinegar put one-half ounce of whole black 
pepper, the same of ginger and allspice, add one ounce 
of mustard seed (add onions if agreeable. "When this 
pickled vinegar boils up, throw in the cucumbers, and 
make them boil as quickly as possiple for three or four 
minutes — no longer. Put them in a jar with the boiling 
vinegar and cover closely. Made in this way your pickles 
will be tender, crisp and green. If the color is not quite 
clear enough, boil the vinegar over the next day, then 
pour it over the cucumbers, and cover perfectly tight. 



MIXED PICKLES. 

Little cucumbers about two inches Icng, green toma- 
toes, ears of sweet corn about the size of the cucumbers, 
a dozen small white onions, some pods of string beans, 
and the tender pods of the radish, four or five small 
green peppers and some bits of horse radish root ; all of 
these soaic over night in a weak brine ; drain through a 
colander and pack in a two-qiart can and fill the can 
with boiling hot spiced vinegar. 

ONION PICKLES. 

To each quart of vinegar, two teaspocnfuls of whole 
black pepper, and the same of allspice. Gather the onions 
when quite dry and ripe, and with the fingers take off the 
thin outside skin. With a silver knife (steel discolors 
them) remove one more skin, when the onion will look 
clear. Have ready some very dry bottles with wide 
mouths, or glass jars, and as fast as they are peeled put 
them in. Pour over cold vinegar to cover them, with 



3^ 

pepper and allspice in the above proportions. 'JMq down 
with bladders, and in a fortnight they will be ready for 
use, 

PICKLED PEACHES. . 

One-lialf gallon of sharp vinegar, four pounds of 
sugar, two ounces each of cinnamon and cloves. Put the 
spice in a ba<j; and boil the mixture five minutes, then 
Ink'j out and lUil in more : put the peaches in jars, and 
pour the mixture over them hot ; cover tight when coid. 

'" r' PICIvEEl) IM.UMS. ■ 

To seven pounds of plums put four pounds of sugar, 
two ounces of stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, one 
quart vinegar ; put in the jar first a layer of plums, then 
a layer of spices alternately ; scald the vinegar and sugar 
together ; [)our it over the plums, and repeat three times; 
fourth time scald altogether, and put in jars sealed tight. 



f 



N 



I 



9 



, ; RIPE TOMATO PICKLE. 

Take smooth, ripe tomatoes and wash clean in cold 
water ; prick them with a coarse needle ; lay compactly 
in a stone jar until full ; then take sufficient pure cider 
vinegar to cover ; heat until boiling, then turn over the 
tomatoes ; have ready a piece of foolscap or smooth 
brown paper, turn the white of an egg on it and see that 
every part of the ])aper is covered with the egg; put in 
the jar (egg side down) and pinch the edges close and 
cover with paper tied on tight. 



I 



SWEET APPLE PICKLE. : '-^A 

Seven pounds sweet apples, halved and cored, three 
and one-half pounds brown s'^rjar, two ounces stick cin« 
namon. one quart vinegar ; put one whole clove in each 
half, and Ic't the whole boil slowly for three or four hours. 
Can while hot. ^ 



mvp 



f 



N 



I. 

I 

* 
; % 

: 



37 



DAVIGNON'S 



WITCH - HAZEL I 

THE NEW TOILET LOTION 

Softens the Skin, removes Roughness, Eruptions find Irritation from 
the Frxc and Hands, and gives Freshness and 
• Tone to the Complexion. 



IT IS /^N INVALUABLE ^PPLIC/\TIO^ f^l\ SH^VIflG 

Don't mistake this Superior Preparation for any paints, enamels 
or injurious cosmetics or inferior Comj)lexion lotions. 

D'Avignon's Cream of Witch-Hazel combines the 

Cleansing, Bland and Soothing properties of ingredients which in 
themselves form a most valuable emollient with that of the now 
widely-known Extract of Witch-Hazel (Hamamelis), the great 
Specirtc for Inflammation of every kind. 

This Valuable Toilet Lotion is guaranteed to contain 
nothing injurious, and may be api^licd with perfect safety on the 
most delicate skin or the 'mucous surfaces of the Nose, Lips or other 
parts, and . is quite harmless on the tender and delicate skin of 
mfants. 

The Valiie of D'Avignons Creaitt of Wit^h-Hazel 

as a Household Article to keep always on hand, will be seen from 
the nature of its. Medicinal Properties. 

It prevents Irruptions, Abrasions, Roughness, Redness, Chap- 
ping, Cold Sores, and pain resulting to sensitive skin from exposure 
to wind and cold. 

It Restores and Preserves the Tone and Elasticity of the Skin. 

It removes the Irritation and Soreness caused by Shaving, 
having the skin firmer and in a better condition for the use of the 
Azor. 

' 'It is iBeheficial for Cracked Breasts and Sore Nipples, being 
alike harmless to both mother and c'hild. 

It is an Unequalled Remedy for Scalding and Chafing of in- 
fantsi , ; . ,• 

.It, may be used with excellent effect for all External Inflamma. 
tion. Bruises,^ Swellings, Soreiness, Faceache, Chilblains, Stings and 
Bites of Insects, etc., etc. 

In short, D'Avignoji's Cpeam of Witch- Hazel is at 

once a Remedy and a Preventive for every form of Surface Inflam- 
mation' or' Irritation, 



PRICE 25 CENTS Per BOTTLE. Fop Sale By F. JORDAN. 






38 

# 

PRESERTES. 

LEMON TART PRESERVE. 

One pound sugar, four ounces butter, six eggs (leav* 
ing out the whites of two), the juice and grated rind of 
two lemons ; put in a porcelain-lined dish and stir over a 
slow fire until it becomes as thick as honey. 

, ., , PRESERVED CITRON. 

Cut the citron in slices ; pare them ; remove the 
seeds ; cut into small squares and weigh them ; then put 
them in water in which a little salt has been dissolved, 
and coo^i until y ' can pass a straw through the pieces ; 
pour off the water, and to each pound of citron add 
three-fourths of a pound of white sugar ; cook slowly 
until the syrup is thick like molasses ; take it from the 
fire, and while it is still hot stir in lemon extract until it 
is strong enough to suit the taste ; then put in a jar ; 
cover closely, and keep in a cool dry place. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Pare, quarter, and core the fruit, saving skins and 
cores. Put the quinces over the fire with just enough 
water to cover them, and simmer until perfectly tender, 
but do not let them break. Take out the fruit and 
spread on dishes to cool ; return the parings and cores 
to the water in which the quinces were boiled and cook 
one hour; then strain through a jelly-bag, and to each 
pint of this liquor allow a pound of sugar. Boil and skim 
this ; then put in the fruit and boil fifteen minutes. 
Take it off the fire and let it stand in a de'?p dish twenty- 
four hours. Then drain off the syrup and let it boil 
again ; put in the quince and boil fifteen minutes. Take 
out the fruit and spread on dishes to cool ; boil down the 
syrup thick ; put the fruit in jars until two-thirds full, 
then cover with the syrup. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Six pounds currants, five pounds sugar, half pint 
vinegar, spices, cloves and cinnamon. Boil till thick. 



1 
f 



\ 



f 



39 
RELISHES. 

■*'<•■ ■■■■'■■ Av» -u ■ • ' 

BENGAL CHETNEY. 

One pound brown sugar one-half pound salt, one-ha': 
pound mustard, one-half pound garlic. One-quarter 
pound of onions, one-quarter pound of ground ginger, 
one- half pound of raisins stoned and chopped very fine, 
one ounce of cayenne pepper, three pints of vinegar, 
thirteen large apples of a sour sort. The mustard seed 
to be washed and dried in the sun, garlic and onions 
sliced and pounded very fine, apples peeled and the cores 
taken out, then boiled till tender in the vinegar. When 
done bruise the apples with a spoon. A few tomatoes 
boiled with the apples is a great improvement. Put away 
in a stone jar and cork it tightly. It improves by keeping, 
and should not be opened for the first year. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

Two eggs, one cup vinegar, three-fourths cup of sugar, 
one teaspoonful each of mustard, salt and pepper ; mix 
well ; put on the stove, and stir till it becomes as thick as 
custard ; when cold pour over the salad. 



'^ 






PLUM OR CRAB-APPLE CATSUP. 

This catsup forms one of the best of relishes, and 
should be more generally on the table. The recipe is three 
pounds of fruit, a pound and three quarters sugar, a 
quart of vinegar, a tablespoonful of cloves, the same of 
pepper and cinnamon, and a teaspoonful salt. Scald the 
fruit, run through the colander, then mix all together, and 
boil until it is about like jam, 

RICH SAUCE. 4^ 

- .. ^ 

Beat half a cup of butter and two cups of sugar to a 
cream ; add two eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg ; 
then heat half a pint of sherry or Madeira as hot as pos 
sible without boiling ; bring one pir.t of ""• 



lf/:»»" ♦■^ rv/^»l 



— »-o 



■i 



40 ^ . 

In another saucepan, and stir in three spoonfuls of corn 
starch, smoothed in a Httle cold water. Cook rapidly for 
a few moments, remove from the fire, and stir the two 
mixtures together . . ; ' 

■ TOMATO JAM. ^ ' '' ' ;' ' 

Take nice ripe tomatoes, pare and slice, and to one 
pound of tomatoes after they are cooked down consider- 
ably add one-half pound of brown sugar, one teaspoonful 
of ground cloves, two teaspoonfulls of allspice, one pint 
of strong vinegar, and stew two hours. It is much better 
than any catsup with corned beef. ' 



SOVPS, ETC. 

BEAN SOUP. '. 

One pint beans, four quarts water ; boil one hour ; 
tnen put in a small piece of fat beef and boil two hours 
longer and strain ; add salt and pepper to taste. If too 
thin add one tablespoonful flour. . 



r 



\ 



BEEF TEA. - 

Select the tenderest, juciest piece of steak possible ; 
cut into pieces half an inch square ; fill a glass quart 
jar ; cover tightly ; set the jur in a kettle of cold water, 
and put the kettle on the stove to boil until the meat is 
tender ; then take out the beef, and press from it all the 
juice possible, which season with pepper and salt to 
taste, and you will have a beef tea worthy of the name. 
Serve with crackers or not, as the case requires. 



V 



CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut up a chicken, sprinkle a little salt over it, and 
put it into three quarts of cold water and set it on a 
quick fire. When it come? to a boil set it where it will 



f 



r 



\ 



rn 
ro 



le 
r- 
\\ 
It 



f 



41 ^- 

■■% 
only simmer. When the meat is cooked tender you can 
take out the white parts, letting the rest remain until it 
is boiled from the bones. Mince fine the white part and 
then pound it in a mortar, adding as you pound it suffi- 
cient of the chicken water to thin it. You may thin it 
with water until it becomes liquid enough to drink. Put 
in a saucepan and boil it a few minutes. This is called 
chicken panada, and taken in small quantities will be 
found very nutritious. The broth may be thickened a 
little with rice, or may have some bread toasted very 
brown, not burned, and broken up in the bottom of the 

soup plate, and the broth poured over it. • ; 

. • • - 'i i > .■■-. ' . • -, f ■ •■ 4 ' 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart boiling \<ratier^' one quart rich milk ; stir 
in one teacupful rolled crackers, pepper and salt. When 
it comes to a boil add one quart fresh oysters ; stir all so 
as not to scorch ; add a piece of 3weet butter about the 
size of an egg ; let it boil up once, and remove from the 

fire. Dish up and send to the table. 

' . - ■■■■''..' ■ „. ' .. . 

OYSTER SOUP— No. 2. ^ 

Take one quart of water, butter the size of an egg, 
two teaspoonfuls salt, four crackers rolled fine, and one 
teaspoonful pepper; bring quickly to full boiling heat, 
then add one quart fresh oysters ; let the whole come to 
boiling heat, and then remove, from the fire. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Into three pints of boiling water put a small piece of 
pork and a sliced onion. Boil and mash, meanwhile, a 
half-dozen good sized potatoes and stir smoothly into the 
water, adding salt? and a pint of milk, and let the whole 
scald up. It will then be ready for the table, where 
crackers may be broken into ^'*-. Makes an excellent 
breakfast dish. # 



. J t • 



42 



f 



\ 





/^n EfFectual, Safe, and Speedy Cure for 

Coughs, Colds, 
Whooping Cough, 
Croup, Hoarseness, 
Bronchitis, 

Spitting lof Blood, 

AND ALL DISEASES OF THE LUNGS. 



TRY IT AND BE OONVINOBD. 



-PREPARED ONLY BY- 



CHEMIST k URDS&lSr, 

Godericl^, - Oi^t^rio. 






r 



i 42 

SUMMER DRINKS, ETC. 

COFFEE. 

One dessertspoonful of Java Coffee for each person, 
three gills of boiling water to each spoonful of coffee. 
The coffee should be freshly and finely ground, meas- 
ured, put into the coffee-pot, and the boiling water 
poured over it. It should be placed where it will keep 
hot but not boil, and steeped for ten minutes ; it should 
then be drawn from the fire and sUowed five minutes to 
settle ; cream and sugar to taste. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Two tablespoonfuls grated chocolate to each person, 
one coffee-cup of mixed milk and water, boiling, to each 
portion of chocolate. Place the grated chocolate in a 
bowl and stir to a smooth paste with a little cold milk ; 
poui: the chocolate into the milk and water, and let it 
boil two minutes, stirring constantly, and sweeten to i| 
taste. ^ 

RASPBERRY ACID. 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of 
water ; pour it upon twelve pounds of red raspberries in 
\ a large bowl ; let it stand twenty-four hours ; strain it 

*^ without pressing ; to a pint of liquor add one pound and 
three-quarters of white sugar j stir occasionally till the 
sugar is dissolved, then bottle for use. A small wine- 
glassful in a tumbler of ice water is a pleasant drink in 
summer. 



^^ 



RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 



Barely cover any quantity of red raspberries with good 
, cider vinegar, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; scald 

\ ^ and strain it; add a pound of sugar to every pint of 
juice ; boil twenty minutes, and bottle ; cork tight and it 
will keep for years. Add a large spoonful or a little more 
to a glass of cold water. 



i 



^^^^^^i^^^^^^^ni 



iWPip.H>IPi|'WWiIii 



44 • , • 

SODA CREAM. 

Two and a-half pounds of white sugar, three quarts of 
water, and the white of an egg well beaten. Bring it all to 
a boil, stirring meantime ; as soon as it boils, strain, and 
wh-en cold add three ounces tartaric acid and flavor with 
lemon ; a wineglassful to be used in a tumbler of water ; 
add half a teaspoonful of baking soda, and drink while 
effervescing. 

... TEA. 

In a tin tea-steeper pour a very little boiimg water, 
put in a small teaspoonful of tea for each person ; pour 
over this boiling water till the steeper is two-thirds full ; 
." cover close and let it stand where it will keep hot but not 
' boil. When the tea has infused tor ten minutes, pour in- 
to the tea urn and add as m*ny cupfuls of boiling water 
as you have used teaspoonfuls of tea ; pour your tea, add- 
ing boiling water to each cup to weaken as desired. If 
you want the tea very fine do not pour the tea-leaves into 
the urn, as the later extract is weak, dark-colored and 
deficient in flavor. 



,*"> ■ 



SWEET1IIE4TS, ETC. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. : 

One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
four of grated chocolate, a little salt, and two-thirds of a 
cup of sugar. Mix chocolate, and corn starch together 
with a little water, sweeten and salt it, adding to it the 
milk five minutes before it comes to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly ; add a teaspoonful of butter, and flavor with 
Jordan's Extract of Vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Two teacups of white sugar, or»e-half teacup of skim 
milk, one-half teacup of chocolate. Boil the milk and 



r 



^ 



t 



( 



^ 



45 



siigar three rftjnlite^j t^riskly j then b^at t!il3 ^!|^ 6ni6^gH to 
roll inta sfriait b'alli, and set away to. harden.^ i]j)is^ve 
the choeolate Iti a bqwl, oveiS ^tearmi, tHeh' (Irop int<j it the 
sugar balk,- until well covered,- and' set to ebol: ^t'lkvor 
the milk and sugar to the taste. 



■'•'1^- 



^ / 



CHOCOLATE CREAM— No. 2. 

To one quart of scalded milk add five tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
one cup sugar, one cup milk ; to be eaten the same as 
boiled custard. 



1 



t 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup , of 
grated chocolate and one-half cup of milk. Boil about 
twenty minutes, stirring briskly, and add one teaspoonful 
Jordan's Extract of Vanilla just as taken from 
the stove. . , . ^ 



f f.i 



*■ ,* .*' \ 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS— No. ^V • ^ 

One-half pound chocolate, two pounds sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, two teacupfuls milk, one lump 
butter twice the size of an egg,, six.; tablespoonfuls mo- 
lasses ; boil until it hardens in cold water. 



^V; 



'\ .V 



(« ( 



'COCOANUT CARAMELS. . , - 

One pint cream, one pound of sugar, one cup sweet 
butter, one-half cup grated cocoanut, one cup of molasses. 
Almond nuts broken may be used in the same way in- 
stead of cocoanut if preferred. ? . t r ^; ;l ' »''vr^ '^^*^ 



KISSES. 



,►,;■». Tr». 



One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda, flbui* enough td make a stiff dough; drbp on tins and 
sprinkle over with powdered sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 



46 



( 





EVERY FAMILY should keep on hand a few reliable remedies 
for ordinary complaints, and for use in cases of emergency. 
jn(!^aution should be used to guard against being deceived by prepara- 
tions advertised to cure every disease. The following list of remedies 
includes only the best preparations for the diseases for which they 
are advertised. They are carefully prej^ared from the purest in- 
gredients, according to the best obtainable formulae, and we can 
confidently recommend them to our customers. 



For Coughs, Colds, etc., 

CHERRY PULMONIC. 

For all Impurities of the Blood, 

USE OVR SARSAPARILLA. 

For Diarrhoea, Dysentery, etc. 

OUR CHOLERA MIXTURE. 

For Sores, Cuts, Wounds, 

CARBOLIC SALYE. 

7or Chapped Hands and Lips, 

CREAM OF WITCH-HAZEL. 

For Sore and Inflamed Eyes, 

USE OUR EYE WATER. 

For General Debility and Impaired Nutrition, 

OUR STOMACH PILLS. 

For Biliousness, Torpid Liver, etc., 

OUR LIYER PILLS. 

For Pains in the Stomach, Colic, Cramps, etc., 

OUR PAIN DESTROYER. 

For Corns, Bunions, etc., 

OUR CORN CURE. 

For Catarrh, Cold in the Head, etc, 

USE OUR CATARRH CREAM. 



F. JORDAN, Dispensing Chemist, 

GODERICH, - ONTARIO 



..■^■....T.-rt/i..-. 



r 




m • 

LEMON TAFFY, 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup boiling water, one 
quarter cup vinegar, one-half cup butter, flavor with 
lemon; pour in buttered plates to cool. 

TO MAKE ROCK CANDY. 

Dissolve loaf or granulated sugar in water so as to 
make a thin syrup, suspend linen or cotton strings in the 
liquid and let it stand undisturbed in a warm place. As 
the liquid evaporates, the strings will become covered 
with beautiful crystals of rook candy. 



lIlISiCELLANCOIIS. 

APPLE BUTTER ROLL. 

Make dough as for biscuit, only a little shorter, roll 
until about one-half an inch thick, spread with apple 
butter, roll up, then put a o4oth around it, tie at each end 
with a string, leaving the cloth loose enough to have 
room to rise, and boil it one hour, or one and a quarter 
hours if large. It is to be rolled the same way as jelly roll, 
and is to be eaten warm with sweet cream. 

BAKED OMELET. * 

Six eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately and very 
ligkt), a teacupful of warm milk with a tablespoonful of 
butter melted in it, a tablespoonful flour, one teaspoonful 
salt, a little pepper ; mix together, adding whites last. 
Bake twenty minutes. ^ 

BROWN ROLLS. ' 'W'" 

Pour boiling water into Graham flour ; stir it with a 
spoon ; then stir in dry flour and knead. Work into rolls 
an inch and a-half or two inches in diameter, and bake 
in a quick oven, but not so hot as for gems. With ex- 
perience the rolls may be made much larger. Excellent 
tor dyspeptics, and good either hot or cold. 




i' 



f^F 



■^PT 




t^ 



48 

COLD SLAW. 

Beat two eggs ten minutes, and add two gills of vin- 
egar and a little mustard ; stir until it boils, when it will 
be thick like custard ; cut tiie cabbage fine, just before 
dinner and throw a little salt over it ; add to the cold 
sauce a gill of milk ;/rnix it, apd pour it over the cabbage, 
which should be in the dish in which it is to be served. 
The cabbagfc should riot lay long after it is cut, as it wilts. 

DRIED, OR SPICED BEEF. " ^^ 

To twenty-four pounds beef, take one pound sugar, 
two and a-half cups '^''' (or i}^ lbs.), one-quarter pound 
pepper, one-qui?r*^er pound allspice, one ounce saltpetre 
powder together c^nd rub over the meat. Pack in a jar 
very closely, and turn the V^eces bVer ev6ry day, or every 
second day, for about ten days. Take out and hang up 
to dry. . ; ' • ' 

: V.,';;V fr:qsting, for cake. . , 

To ithe whites of two eggs^ whipped to a stiff froth, 
add . pulverized sugar to make it stiff, enough to spread 
with- a. knife-; flavor tO' suit the taste. A tablespoonful of 
corn -starch improves, it. A few drops Cake Coloring 
will give a beautiful, pinki. ' • 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

BSat up six eggs with two ounces butter, one table- 
spoonful cream, a little chopped parsley and salt : put all 
in a saucepan and keep stirring over the fire until it be- 
gins t6 thicken, when it should be immediately served on 
^dttejed toast. 



r 



J...: :.' 




'. ■ \ ' .' i 



