





};^}:iU4Mm 'i^Mwii^W^i^^ 



':>■?:'■ ^'H'n(<: 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

"VT^, 

. Shelf..-i\3..35 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



'W© %mskdf Otiier® Follow, 



Where Money will go the Farthest is at 

h D. G flLLOWflY'5 

HEADQUARTERS IN ALBION FOR 



Choice Silks and Dress Goods, 

Cloaks, Wraps, and Shawls, 

Table Linens, Napkins and Towels, 
Laces. Ribbons and Ruchings, 

Underwear, Hosiery and Gloves, 
Yankee Notions, Buttons and Trimmings, 
Prints, Ginghams and all widths Sheetings, 
Handkerchiefs, Neckwear and Embroideries, 
Material for Fancy Work in great Variety. 



CARPETS, RUGS, LACB CURTAINS, ETC, 

LARUEST LINE, LOWEST PRICES. 



It will pay to trade at the leading Dry Goods House. 

Respectfully, 

M. D. GALLOWAY, 



What Do You Feed The Baby? 
la cto-prejpabata, 

A prepared Human Milk, is a pure Milk Food designed espe- 
cially for Infants under 8 months of age. 

It is the nearest approach to mother's milk that can be produced 
and be permanent. It is prepared from cows' milk, and contains no 
cereal carbohydrates, and, being partiallj' peptonized, will digest as 
readily and nourish the child as perfectly as human milk. 

Carnrick's Soluble Food 

Is the nearest approach to human milk that has thus far been pi"o- 
duced with the exception of Lacto-Preparata. It is composed of cows' 
milk, parliallj' predigested, to which has been added a sufficient pro- 
portion of dextrine and milk-sugar to make the total percentage of 
carbohydrates equal to that of human milk. 
We claim for both these foods: 

1. That they are superior to any other prepared foods. 

2. That they are perfect foods in themselves, requiring no ad- 
dition of cows' milk (as do all otlier foods offered for sale), thus avoid- 
ing the danger from the use of cows' milk, especially in large cities. 

3. That the casein is partially digested, so as to be as readily 
assimilated as human milk. 

4. That the milk in these jjreparations is carefully sterilized, and 
that they are prepared with scientific skill in everj- detail. They have 
been prepared and improved by the advice and aid of the best physi- 
cians and chemists in this country and Europe, among whom are 
Prof. J. Lewis Smith, New York; Prof. Atttield, London; Prof. V. 
C Vaughan, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Prof. Stutzer, Bonn, Germany. 

We recommend the use of these foods in the order mentioned: 
Lacto-Preparata for the first eight months, and afterward Carnrick's 
Soluble Food as nature then sui)plies more generously the digestive 
agents, which act upon cereals; but either of them maj' be used as 
long as a child would ordinarily nurse. 

Our Baby's First and Second Years, a book of 48 pages, by Marion 
Harland, sent free by 

REED «Sc CARNRICK, 

NKW YORK. 



MISS F. R. BeNGe, 



'■^-FirvFJ^ 



MILLINERY. 




plo. 114 East Erie gtreet, 
ALBION - - - - MICHIGAN. 



GO TO 



y\LBION OXY IftLfNDRY 

Where you will find the 

FINEST ;q]^D BEST Lj^aNDRY W6RK IJi 
3FPE CIW 0F ^LBI@N. 



Sliirts, Collars, Cis, and Lace Cortaios a Specialty, 

MRS^ WM, BISDALE. 

." Proprietress. 



XIILL ac .i^HL^ILjElNr, 



-DEAI^ERS IN- 



Boots, Shoes and Groceries. 



-^1- BUTTeR MISD EGGS, i^ 

— AND OTHER — 

No. 101 and 103 Superior Street, - ALBION, MICHIGAN. 



ARTISTS' SUPPLIES 

At the Drug and Book Store of 

d. G. BROWN. 
eSLOUJ BLOCK. 



PHIS CIAy AM) SURGEON. 



Office in Eslow Block, Albion, Mich. 



PHlSICI.tS AMJ SVUOKOy, 



Office in Dalry'>nple Block; 
Residence 510 East Erie St. , 



City and country calls promptly attended. 



Albion^ Mich. 



fi^-OF SPECIAL INTEREST. -^ 

THE BEST RECIPE FOR SEASON OF 1890-91 

IS NOT TO FAIL TO SEE THE 

DRY GOODS BARGAINS AT BUNDAY'S 

(Popular Corner Store.) 
Very Special Inducements in our 

CLOAK LINE, 

OUR DRESS aOODS, 

SILKS AND VELVETS, 
AND ENTIRE STOCK. 



CALL <€ SEE BUNDAY'S POPULAR DRY GOODS. 



KURNIXURR ! 

HO, YES ! 

And the place to buy it is of the 

liiiao hn\\m Coiiipany. 



A LARQE ASSORTMENT, 

And Prices as Low as the Lowest 



^•USDERTAIilNf. AND FONERAL DlRECTING.ti- 

G. H. KII^IAN, Prop'p. 



J. W. GILLESPIE, 

The lycading Dealer in 

BOOTS ^» SHOES 



FINK CUSTOM WORK AND REPAIRING 
NEATLY DONE. 

Superior St., Next to National Bank. 



REMEMBER.— When you want to buy Boots, Shoes and 
Rubber Goods, go to the Shoe Store of J. W. GILLESPIE. 
Best place in the county for stylish goods and low prices. 



Drugs, Medicines, Wall Paper, 

WINDOW SHADES, 

Fancy and Toilet Articles, Books, and Stationery. 

-^i-TXRTISTS' 7WKTERI7^1_S.i^ 



READY MIXED HOUSE AND BUGGY PAINTS, WOOD 
STAINS, VARNISHES, OILS AND PUTTY. 



Physicians' Prescriptioiis Carefully Gompourided. 



Respectfully Yours, 

W. F. CHURCH. 



F=. F. H07XGL-IN, 

Clothing, Hats, Caps and Gents' Furnishing Goods, 

SUPERIOR STREET, ALBION. 

A Certain Recipr ior securing the best goods for the 
least money is always to buy them of 

F. F. HOAGLIN, The Peoples' Clothier. 



THE LEADER IN STYLES 

OIF^ 

MILLinERY m FAMCY GOODS 

MRS BA^BCOCK, 

306 Superior Street, Ai^bion Mich. 

miss m. miss s. l. 

MISSES DYSINOER, 

FLaORISTB. 

Choice Potted Plants and Cut Flowers, 



Designs for funeral and other occasions 
artistically arranged. 

Residence and Greenhouse, 414 East Porter St., Albion, Micb. 




SAY ! Do you realize how 
handy that G-rocery Store 
P is on College Hill ? It will 
'^' save you many steps and 
many cents. Our goods are the 
best. Try them and then you 
can judge for yourself. 

Ernest W. G-kiffust, 

711 East Oass St. 



e|s 



4. 
els 






EEkLTE. STYLE. COMFORT- 

• -s THE DELSARTE CORSET CO., > • 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



The Delsarte Corset, Waist and Brace, 






WA.RRA\TED PERFECT I\ EVERY RESPECT. 



When you dress for Society wear the "Delsarte." 
When you dress for ivalking wear the "Delsarte." 
When you dress for home or church wear the "Delsarte," 
You will then breathe more deeply, move with more ease 
and grace, and j'our disposition will be sweeter, your mind 
brighter, .and your soul will find that there is a kind of 
moralit}^ in clothes. 

Prepare yourself for household duties in the morning by 
taking a good stretch. It isn't being lazy, but on the contrary 
energizes ^vQxy nxxxsoXo.. Dress lightly and wear a "Delsarte" 
waist, with all lower garments buttoned to it. Observe Del- 
sarte rules of standing and moving, and when weary sit or lie 
down and relax every muscle for a little time and breathe 
deeply and slowly. If you have on a Delsarte Corset or 
Waist you can do this. 

Should you be unable to take a short course in physical 
culture, get a book on Delsarte — but first provide j-ourself 
with a Delsarte Corset or Waist, or both, and if you stoop, 
with a Shoulder Brace. 

Follow out these suggestions and you will find that you can 
count among 3'Our best friends 

THE DELSARTE GORSET GO., 



SEND FOR PRICE LIST. 



142 W. 23D STREET, NEW YORK. 



THE LEADING JEWELERS. THE LEADING OPTICIANS, 

ESTABLISHED 1863. 



ALBION, MICHIGAN. 
THE LARGEST STOCK. THE LOWEST PRICES. 



HARDWOOD FLOORS! 



The Handsomest, Cleanest, and most Fashionable Floors in use. 
No Modern House Complete Without Them. 



We work Amaranth, Mahogany, Rosewood, Ebony and 
Holly into beautiful designs, combined with Oak, Ash, Maple, 
Walnut, Cherry, Sycamore and Birch so as to make a solid, 
durable, fine HARDWOOD FLOOR. 

These floors have stood a test of seventeen years' wear; they 
have proved the best. 



JOHN J. OWRN, 

Fine Parquetry Floors, 175 First Street, Detroit, Michigan. 

Out of town orders solicited. Tel. 1945. 



ROUSSEAU &, ALSDORF, 

Manufacturers aud Wholesale Dealers in 

HHRNBSS. 

SftDDLeRY HftRDWftRe. 

Corner Cass and Clinton Streets. 



jg^" To cook the recipes in this book, buy your stove of 

Genera] Dealers in 



HARDWARE, STOVES % HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS 

C^AND, MANUFACTURERS OF ALL KINDS OF-^ 

TIN, GOPPER AND SHEET IRON WARE. 

No. 7 Superior Street, - - Albion, Michitjini. 




F,Of\oT\(:y 



FIRST M. E. CHURCH, ALBION, MICH. 



" Good Cooking can 7iot be made out of Bad Marketing.'^ 



A COLLECTIOn OF 
XESTOD RECIRES, 

HOME DELIGHT 



Compiled and arranged for the benefit of 



THe LftDieS' ftID SOCIETY 



OF THE 






FIRST M. E. CHURCrt^SS 



COn^/£:tvd:iTTEE: 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway, Mrs. Jno. Grofp, Mrs. C. E. Barr, 

Mrs. N. B. Gardner, Mrs. Dr. Parmeter. 

Mrs. Matthew Steel, Stenographer. 



ALBION, MICH.: 

ALBION RECORDER BOOK AND JOB PRINT. 
1890. 



^ 

"> 

-f 



COPYRIGHT, 1890, BY THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY OF THE FIRST 
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH, ALBION, MICH. 



PREFACE, 



No cook book, however perfect and complete it may be, 
will, of itself, make a good cook. Practice is better than 
theory. Success in baking, boiling, frying, stewing, and com- 
pounding can only be attained by experience, and a careful 
attention to detail. 

Good materials are often spoiled by slovenly preparation. 
Remember that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing 
well. We ask no one to take our recipes on faith, try them, 
and, if more reliable than others, recommend them to your 
friends. The recipes contained in this little book have been 
solicited at the cost of much time and effort on the part of the 
committee, a cake here, a pudding there, a salad, or jelly from 
someone else, from ladies who have gained a reputation for 
preparing this, or that particular dish. 

Our subject is an inexhaustible one, and we make no pre- 
tentions to offering you a complete cook book, but we do claim 
that in it will be found such a variety of tested recipes as 
will, with ordinary care, enable anj^ housewife to prepare for 
her own family, or her guests, a most delicious breakfast, 
lunch, dinner, or tea. Our book is a temperance book, all 
recipes containing wine or brandy having been conscientiously 
excluded. The matter of our book we claim is all right; the 
phraseology may in some instances be peculiar, and may pro- 
voke a smile, but we crave your indulgence, and ask you to 



remember that we are not book makers. Persons familiar with 
Albion names will recognize many who do not belong to the 
Methodist Sisterhood. 

We desire to acknowledge our obligations to the ladies of 
sister churches, and all others who have in any manner 
assisted us, and we trust that our book will prove so useful 
to them that it will amply repay them for all their kindness. 

COMMITEE. 



A GOOD COOK 




ssiwii. 



Will prize above everything in the 
kitchen, that Famous Kitchen Utensil, 

HUflTER'S SIFTER, 

which is a combined Sifter, Measure, 
Mixer, Scoop, Dredger, Rice Washer, 
Pumpkin, Tomato, Wine, Starch and 
Fruit Strainer. 

It is the. best made, and sold by all 
Hardware, Stove and Tinware and 
House Furnishing Stores. 

Ttte FR^D J. AYeRS MFG. CO. 



BREAD 



"The comfort of the husband, the pride of the wife." 

Suggestions: — To make good bread there are three important 
requisites: — good flour, good yeast and strength to knead it 
well. 

When you put the bread on the board pat it lightly, knead 
until the dough is light and smooth and will not stick to the 
board or hands. 

Use as little flour as possible in kneading. 

Do not stop until you have fully finished, for bread that 
has "rested" is not good. 

To make bread or biscuit a nice color, wet the dough over 
the top with water just before putting into the oven. 

The flour used should always be sifted. 

For Four Loaves of Bread. 

Two quarts of warm water, six boiled and mashed potatoes, 
one tablespoon of sugar, one-half tablespoon of salt, a piece of 
conii)ressed yeast the size of a pea, flour enough for a thick 
batter. Beat well together, cover and set in a warm place to 
rise. When light mix thoroughlj^ with sufiicient flour for a 
dough as soft as can be handled. When again risen, mould 
lightly, put in tins and set in a warm placa to rise. When 
light, bake one-half hour. If the sponge is set at tea time it 
will be ready to mix by bed time, and the bread will be ready 
for the loaves in the early morning. 

Breakfast Rolls 

Should be made of the same dough before it is kneaded 



EaSES^S^^^jB^^iSgSijga^ll 



••• BUY TKe BesT FbodR /\Ai3e. ••• 



• • • ■«••■ • • • 



Ask your Grocer for the Celebrated 

ALBlOn PATEfiT 

Manufactured only by 

W. B. KNICKeRBOCKeR, 



ALBION, MICHIGAN. 



If your Grocer does not keep above Flour send order 

direct to 

ALBION MILLING CO., Albion, Mich. 



^M^y^'^'^s^^^^A^^y'W^ys^ 



22 BREAD. 

for the tins. Pour suflEicient from the pan, handling it very 
carefull)', cut into strips with a knife and place in tins not too 
close together. Set in a warm place to rise. Bake in a quick 
oven. Albion Milling Co. 

Hop Yeast 

One quart of old potatoes, mashed v^erj' fine after boiling, 
one handful of hops boiled in one quart of water. Stir to- 
gether with cold water one large cup of flour, one-half tea- 
cup of white sugar, one-half teacup of salt, one-half table- 
spoon of ginger. Pour the boiling hop- water on this, then stir 
in the potatoes. I generalh' add one pint more water, unless 
the amount would make it too thin. Add to the above, when 
cold enough, a cup of baker's yeast. This will keep well in 
a cool place. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Biscuif. 

(Makes about forty-five small biscuits.) 
One pint of milk scalded and cooled, one heaping table- 
spoon of unmelted butter, one tablespoon of sugar, a little salt, 
one-half cake of compressed yeast, kneed into a solid loaf and 
let rise. When light, cut off your biscuit. Fill tins and let 
them get very light. Bake twenty minutes. [Tested.] 

Raised Biscuit. 

Two teacups of sweet milk, one teacup of lard boiled 
together, add two teacups of cold milk and a teacup of yeast, 
sponge this over night. In the morning add one tablespoon 
of sugar, one tablespoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda and the 
white of one egg well beaten. Let this ri.=e again, then make 
into biscuit, when light, bake. Mrs. L- D. Crane. 

Bread. 

(Salt rising.) 
Take a quart bowl half filled with warm water, not scalding. 



BREAD. 23 

oue teaspoon of salt, and sifted flour enough to make a vtry 
thick batter, beat vigorouslj^ five minutes, then cover and 
place in a dish of water as warm as the hand can be held in for 
two minutes, keep the bowl in the water at the same tempera- 
ture, stirring occasionally for five hours, when the batter will 
be light and ready to sponge. Take one quart of warm water 
in the bread pan and stir in flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter, then pour in the light emptyings and stir vigorously, set in 
the warming oven, and in forty minutes should be very light 
and ready to knead into loaves; knead lightly and quickly, not 
allowing it to get cold; place back in the warming oven and 
in twenty minutes will be ready to place in the baking oven. 
Bake in a moderately quick oven half an hour. This bread 
will never have a disagreeable smell nor ever be sour or heavy, 
but always white, light and palatable if the proper care is 
taken to keep the temperature correct and all the baking 
utensils are kept sweet and clean. Carefully sift all the flour 
used. Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Brown Bread. 

One quart of milk, one cake of yeast, one-half cup of white 
sugar, a little salt, make a thick sponge with flour. When 
light, stir in Graham flour, as much as you can mix with a 
spoon. Put in your pans, and when very light bake three- 
fourths of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Brown Bread. 

One pint of buttermilk, one pint of cold water, two-thirds 
cup of molasses, salt, two teaspoons of salaratus, one quart of 
meal, one tablespoon of shortening, one and one-fourth pints 
of flour. Steam two and one-half hours. 

Mrs. Wm. A, Anderson. 

Sa/t Rising Bread. 

(Come Quick). 
Two-thirds cup of Connell, one-half teaspoonful of ginger, 



24 BREAD. 

one-fourth teaspoonful soda, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
stir in boiling hot water until it is a thick batter, keep warm 
four hours, then thin to a batter with hot water {boiling) and 
keep warm until it rises. Set in a cool place and it will keep 
two weeks, and bread can be made from it several times. 



The Way fo Make the Bread. 

The morning of the day you want to make bread take two 
tablespoons of COME QUICK, one-third of a quart bowl of 
warm water, a pinch of soda, and a pinch of salt. Stir in 
flour until a l/iick batter. L,et rise in a warm place until the 
bowl is full. Sponge (two large loaves). Take two quarts of 
flour and scald with boiling hot water, cool with cold water 
until milk warm, one tablespoonful of salt and the rising or 
yeast, stir thoroughly and let the sponge rise in a warm place 
till very light. Mix in loaves very soft and let rise in a warm 
place. Bake one-half hour. Mrs. Elvira McCutcheon. 

Graham Bread. 

Two cups graham flour, two-thirds cup corn meal, one and 
one-half cup milk one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, 
one-half teaspoon of salt. Steam two hours. 

Mrs, O. Peabody. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups of graham flour, one-half cup corn meal, one- 
half cup of molasses, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon salt, 
one and one-half cups sweet milk (water will answer), steam 
two hours and then put in the oven to brown. 

Miss Frances Staples. 

Brown Bread. 

One coffee cup molasses, two cups sour milk, two tablespoons 
melted butter, one heaping teaspoon soda, graham flour to 



BREAD. 25 

thicken to a soft dough. Pour into baking pans and let stand 
until nearly full, then place in oven to bake. 

Mrs. h. R. Fiske. 



Graham Bread. 

Four cups sour milk, two teaspoons soda, one cup of molas- 
ses, one-half cup of brown sugar, one teaspoon of salt. 
Graham flour to make as stiff" as mush with a little wheat flour 
also. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 



Corn Bread. 

Two cups sour milk, four cups of sweet milk, five cups 
corn meal, two cups flour, one cup of molasses, soda and salt. 

Mrs. Dr. Bruce. 



Brown Bread. 

Before making your white bread into a loaf, take three- 
fourths of an oyster bowl of the sponge, two-thirds cup of 
molasses, two-thirds cup of warm water, two-thirds teaspoon 
of soda and a pinch of salt. Stir in graham flour until stiff, 
let rise and bake one hour. Mrs. Fred Groff. 



Corn Bread. 

Two coffee cups of corn meal, two of graham flour, two of 
sour milk, two-thirds cup of molasses, one teaspoon of soda. 
Steam two and one-half hours. Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Brown Bread. 

One pint of sour milk, one cup of corn meal, one cup of 
graham flour and one cup of white flour, one-half cup molasses, 
one teaspoon of salt, one of soda. Steam two hours and bake 
one hour. Mrs. S. W. Hill. 



26 BREAD. 

Oat Meal Bread. 

Two heaped coflfee cups of the Oat Meal left from break- 
fast, thinned with half a pint of boiling water, or, if still hot, 
with cold water. Add two level tablespoons of sugar, butter 
the size of a walnut, and flour to make a thin batter. When 
lukewarm add one-half cup of yeast or, one-half cake of 
compressed yeast — set over warm water and when light stir in 
flour enough to make batter as stiff as can be stirred with a 
spoon — put into a bread tin and when light bake in an evenly 
hot oven for an hour and one-half. Do not have oven too hot 
at first. This makes two good-sized loaves and is no trouble. 

Mrs. W, B. Knickerbocker. 

Tea Rusk. 

Take a piece of dough the size of a loaf of bread, work 
into it a large cup of sugar, one-half cup of lard and butter, 
one &gg and a piece of soda the size of a pea. Let rise five 
hours in a warm room and invite your friends in to help eat 
them. Mrs. Stephen Gregory. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two cups corn meal, two cups graham flour, one cup 
white flour, one cup molasses, one and one-half pints sour 
milk, one and one-half teaspoon (level) soda, and one table- 
spoon salt. Steam three hours and bake a few minutes. 

Mrs. W. B. Knickerbocker. 

French Rolls. 

Two quarts of flour, one cup of yeast, piece of butter the 
size of an egg, two tablespoons of sugar and one pint of scald- 
ing sweet milk. Mrs. Will Davis. 

Corn Bread. 

Scald one quart good corn meal, stand until cool, add one 
cup good yeast and a pinch of salt. Mix, let rise, mix down 



BREAD. 27 

and pour into a buttered tin, let rise again, and then bake one 
hour. Two tablespoons of molasses can be used if desired. 

Mrs. Chas. Knickerbocker. 



Parker House Rolls. 

Rub one-half teacup lard into two quarts flour. Scald one 
pint milk and at night add one-half cup yeast with one-fourth 
cup of sugar to the cooled milk, and pour all into the middle 
of the flour without stirring. In the morning knead well and 
set in a warm place to rise, when light knead again and roll 
out one-half inch thick, cut out with biscuit cutter, butter 
the edge and fold over and then let stand until ready to bake 
for tea. Bake quick. Tested. 



JNO. M. CORBIN, C.H.MINNIE, iVI . F. COTTRELL. 

PRESIDENT- VICE-PREST. SECY AND TREAS. 



^!^ 

•?!«• 



THE # 



^HckBon ^milker ^a.. 




Trade-i^'^'' 



make the finest crackers in the coun- 
try, Jaxon J. Wafer and J. C. Wa- 
fer are the brands. Ask for them 
and have no other. They also 
manufacture a full line of Sweet 
Goods, consisting of Jumbles of all 
kinds, Graham and Oat Meal Wafers, 
Soltana Fruits, Sugar and Molasses 
Cookies, lycm on and Vanilla Wafers, 
Lemon Biscuit, Ginger Snaps and 
all kinds of sweet goods that tend 
to make life happy. 



SE^iTiD i^oia s..fi.3s/!i::pijES -fi^osrx) :pisices. 



THE JACKSOlSr ORi^LCKER CO., 

J32 ^ 134 Pearl st West, Jackson, Mich. 



EAT QUAKER OATS. 



THE MOST DELIGIOUS BREAKFAST DISH. 



Eor Sale By AAl Grrocers. 



Manufaciured by Cereal Milling Co., Chicago, III. 



Johnny Cake. 

One tablespoon butter, one cupsugar (light brown is best), 
two eggs. Beat together and then add one cup of sour cream 
or rich buttermilk, one teaspoon of soda, one cup of corn meal 
sifted and one cup of flour. Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Muffins. 

Two eggs, one pint of flour, one coffee cup of sweet milk, 
butter half the size of an egg, a little salt, one teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder. Mix baking powder and salt in your flour, 
beat the yolks and whites of eggs separately, add to the yolks 
the milk and the butter melted, then the flour, and lastly the 
whites of the eggs. Beat up well and bake immediately in 
hot oven in gem pans or rings. Mrs. L- R. Fiske. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

One cup of milk, one egg, one large teaspoon of baking 
powder, a little melted butter. Add flour to make a thin 
batter and bake in gem tins. Mrs. W, O'Donoughue. 

Breakfast Puffs. 

Two eggs, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, salt, three 
even teaspoons baking powder. Place on a pancake griddle 
lard enough to stand one fourth inch when melted — when hot 
drop batter on in spoonfuls. Cook until light brown, then 
turn and cook until done. Serve hot with butter and syrup. 

Mrs. A. A. Knappen. 



30 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Graham Gems. 

One Q^gg, butter size of half an &gg, three tablespoons of 
brown sugar, two teacups buttermilk, one teaspoon of soda, 
one scant teaspoon of salt, three teacups graham flour. Put 
in hot gem pans and bake. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Sally Lunn. 

Two eggs, one cup of milk, one cup of sugar, butter the 
size of an &gg, three cups of flour and three teaspoons of baking 
powder. Soften the butter and add it last. Bake in little 
round tins and serve hot for breakfast or tea. 

Mrs. W. E. Parsons. 

Corn Meal Puffs. 

One pint of corn meal, one pint of flour, one-half cup of 
lard, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoon of salt, three tea- 
spoon baking powder. Just enough water to make thera drop 
off the spoon. Mrs. J. A. Beal. 

Corn Buns. 

One-half cup of butter, one fourth cup of sugar, three eggs, 
one cup of sweet milk, one cup of meal, two cups flour and 
three teaspoons baking powder. Mrs. A. A. Knappen. 

Johnny Cake. 

One ^gg, one cup sour milk, one-half cup sour cream, one- 
half cup sugar, salt and soda. Use one-fourth flour and three- 
tourths corn meal to thicken. Mrs. Wm. A. Anderson. 

Graham Gems, 

Two cups of graham flour, one of wheat flour, two full tea- 
spoons Royal Baking, Powder, one tablespoon of sugar and 
one of melted butter, two eggs. Beat the whites and yolks sep- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 3 1 

arately and add the whites last, one teaspoon of salt, bake in 
hot gem irons well greased. Will bake in about fifteen min uts. 

Mrs. Chas. E. Barr. 



Corn Bread. 

One cup corn meal, two cups flour, one and one-half cups 
sweet milk, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon salt. Steam three hours and bake ten minutes. 

Mrs. M. Steel. 



Boston Corn Cake. 

One cup of meal, one cup of flour, one eg^, butter the size of 
an Qgg, three teaspoons of baking powder, milk enough to 
make it a little too stiff to run. Mrs. Prof. Fall. 



Use Royal Baking Powder. Absolutely pure. A Cream 
of Tartar Baking Powder. Highest of all in leavening 
strength. 



Corn Bread. 

One pint of sweet milk, one pint of sour milk, one-half cup 
of molasses, one and one-half teaspoon of soda dissolved in a 
little hot water and stirred in the molasses, little salt, one scant 
quart of sifted corn meal, one pint of flour. Bake in two 
loaves for one-half hour or more. 



Graham Gems. 

One cup of buttermilk, three tablespoons of brown sugar, 
one teaspoon of soda, a little salt, graham flour sifted. After 
the flour is added, beat in one tablespoon of butter the last 
thing. Bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. 

Mrs. Mary B, Dickie. 



32 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Griddle Cakes. 

One quart of bread sponge, two eggs, one-half cup of sour 
milk and one-half teaspoonful of saleratus in the milk. Beat 
thoroughly and let stand a few minutes before baking. Bake 
on a hot buttered griddle. Mrs. Geo. Graves. 



SOUPS. 



"The table is the only place where we do not get weary the first hour." 

Suggestions: — Stock makes the basis of all meat soups. 
Fresh lean beef with the addition of some cracked bones is 
best. 

Some good cooks always add the remains of a roast of beef, 
thinking that this improves the flavor. 

To each pound of meat allow a little less than a quart of 
water, and a level teaspoon of salt. 

Always put it on the stove in cold water and keep the pot 
well covered. All scum rising to the surface should be care- 
fully removed. The juices of the meat are more thoroughly 
extracted by boiling slowly for several hours, than by hard 
boiling for a shorter time. A variety of vegetables cut very 
fine and added to the stock makes vegetable soup. 

Soup may be served in a variety of ways; for example: — 
stirring hard boiled eggs into it after dishing ; or by toasting 
small cubes of bread a good brown and dropping into the soup 
when it is ready for the table. 

Soup will be as good the second day as the first, if the fat 
is removed from the top and it is reheated to the boiling point. 
It should never be left in the pot, but turned into a crock, and, 
uncovered, kept in a cool cellar. 

Mulligatawney Soup. 

One quart of chicken stock, add to it one teacup of chopped 
chicken, one teacup of bread crumbs put through a cullender, 
then take three eggs boiled hard and chop the whites fine and 
mash the yolks soft, add to this a cup of thick sweet cream, 
salt and pepper to taste. Mrs. Flora Gale. 



34 SOUPS. 

Bouillon. 

Simmer in one pint of water for one hour one small onion, 
four cloves, and a pinch of celery seeds, to this add one pint of 
rich chicken stock and also add one teaspoonful of Bouillon 
Kemmerich for each person, pepper and salt to taste. Let this 
boil for a moment, then strain through a fine napkin and serve, 
putting a thin slice of lemon in each cup. This quantity will 
serve twelve persons. The Bouillon Kemmerich can be pro- 
cured of your druggist or grocer. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Take about three pounds of beef, boil one hour, remove 
from the kettle and put in the oven to roast. Half an hour 
before the meat is done put in a few potatoes — quarter them 
and put in the pan with the meat to roast. Break some mac- 
aroni, say five pieces into inch pieces, soak in water while the 
meat is boiling. Turn the broth on the macaroni and cook un- 
til tender, season with pepper, salt and butter. 

Mrs. Leonard. 

Tomato Soup. 

One quart of cooked tomatoes, one small pint of water or 
stock cooked together and put through a sieve. When boil- 
ing hot add a pinch of soda, and when foaming add about a 
quart of milk. Mix a piece of butter the size of an egg with 
a tablespoon of flour, and add to the soup salt and pepper to 
taste and serve hot. Mrs. Charles E. Barr. 

Beef Soup. 

Get a large or small quantity as desired of beef from the 
knuckle; as it is tough it is better to boil it the day before it is 
wanted, boil till almost tender. The next day put it over the 
fire again in the same water. Pare and slice around the 
potatoes in quarter-inch pieces, as many as desired, add large 
or small onions, salt and pepper to taste, when nearly done 



SOUPS. 35. 

remove some of the broth, make dumplings, drop into the 
kettle, taking care they do not sink into the water, as it makes 
them heavy. This makes a first class soup. 

Tomato Soup. 

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of water, stew till soft, 
add small teaspoon of soda, after it stops foaming and one 
quart of boiling milk, sail, butter and pepper to taste, stir in 
a little rolled cracker, cook a few minutes and serve. 

Mrs. Washington Gardner. 

Tomaio Soup. 

Skim and strain one gallon of stock made from nice fresh 
beef, take three quarts of tomatoes, remove skin and cut out 
hard center put through a fine sieve, and add to the stock, 
make a paste of butter and flour and when the stock begins to 
boil stir in one-half teacup taking care not to have it lumpy- 
Boil twent}' minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. 
Canned tomatoes will answer. Bread cut in diamonds covered 
with melted butter and browned added when the soup is ready 
for the table is very nice. Mrs. Belle Gale. 

Tomaio Soup. 

Add a quart of raw tomatoes, peeled and sliced, or a can of 
stewed tomatoes and half a small onion to a quart of stock and 
stew slowlv for an hour. Strain and rub through a colander 
and set again over the fire. Stir in a tablespoonful of butter 
cut up and rubbed into a tablespoonful of flour and a table- 
spoonful of corn-starch wet up with cold water. Season to 
taste with pepper and salt, boil once more and pour out. 

Mrs. Geo. Bortles. 

Potato Soup. 

Six potatoes boiled in a quart of water, mash very fine 
and put back into the water having a full quart of water, add 



36 SOUPS. 

a cup of sweet cream, (not too thick), bring to a boil stirring all 
the time and season with pepper and salt. 

Mrs. W. H. Brock way. 

Cream Tomato Soup. 

Boil two quarts of milk, cook and strain one can of toma- 
toes, and while the milk is boiling put in one-half teaspoon of 
soda, add the tomato slowly, stir all the time while cooking. 
Add butter and salt to taste, thicken with cornstarch to the 
consistency of cream. Do not allow to boil after thickened 
as there is danger of curdling. Mrs. Mary B. Dickie. 



R. K. M\L. M7XM NUVS, 

PROPRIETOR OF 



m-Mi 



n 



MANUFACTURER OF FINE GONFEGTIONERY. 



The cheapest place in the city to get 
Every can guaranteed to be fresh and sweet. 



Fiy^E ICE CREAM IX THE SEASOiV. FIXE 
BRICK CREAM MADE FOR PARTIES. 



To do Good Cooking one Must Have Pure 
Ingredients. 



We handle nothing but 



P ure Groceries 



C^^^iNrnsrEZD G-oonDs. 



N. DAVIS, = - 113 Superior Street, 

ALBION, MICHIGAN. 



FISH ftND SHeLL FISH. 

"May be this is fun, sitting in the sun 

With hook and parasol, as my Angler wishes, 

While he dips his line in the ocean brine. 

Under the impression that his bait will catch the fishes." 

As soon as possible after the fish are caught, they should 
be scaled, and dressed. The scales can be loosened bj' pour- 
ing on hot water. Do not allow fresh fish to remain in water 
after dressing, but sprinkle with salt and let them stand a few 
hours before cooking. 

To be palatable, fish should be well done. When fish is 
boiled, it should be put in cold water, except in the case of 
Salmon, when the water should be hot to preserve the rich 
color of the fish. 

Garnishes for Fish. 

Parsley, sliced beets, and water cress; sliced lemons can 
also be used with hard boiled eggs grated over the fish. 
Never soak salt fish with the skin-side down in the water, as 
the salt will fall in the skin and remain there. 

Salmon Loaf. 

One pound can of salmon, liquor drained off. Two-thirds 
cup of bread crumbs, four eggs, four tablespoons of melted 
butter, little salt and pepper, mix bu'ter and salmon together 
smooth, beat the eggs light and add to them the bread crumbs 
and other ingredients and then thoroughly mix. Put in a 
buttered mould and steam one hour. Dressing : — One cup of 
milk, one scant tablespoon of corn-starch, one ^gg, red pepper 
and a pinch of salt. Let milk come to a scald, add corn-starch 
and cook a moment, then add the egg well beaten, cook a 



FISH AND SHEIX FISH. 39 

minute longer. Strain and add the liquor from the fish. 
Add a little butter, pour over the loaf when ready to serve. 

Mrs. Dr. Parmeter. 

Eels. 

Skin and parboil them, cleanse the back bone of all coagu- 
lations, cut ihem in pieces about three inches in length, dip in 
flour and cook in butter, brown. Mrs. Henry Crittenden. 

Baked Fish. 

Take a fresh pickerel and lay in salt and water for twent)^- 
four hours. Prepare stuflfing from bread crumbs in the usual 
way and fill the fish, then sew it up and place in the oven for 
one or two hours according to size. If nicely seasoned and 
baked it will be delicious. 

Boiled Fish. 

Procure a fresh whitefish and lay in salt and w-ater for 
twenty-four hours, then take out and lay in a towel and fold the 
towel closely around the fish and fasten securely, place in a 
kettle of boiling water and boil three-quarters of an hour if the 
fish weighs two and one-half pounds. When done lift carefully 
fi-om the kettle and remove the towel and skin the fish without 
breaking it, place on platter, spread butter and whipped cream 
over it, sprinkle pepper and salt lightly over it and serve. It 
is delicious. Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Turbot. 

Take a whitefish and steam till tender, take out the bones 
and sprinkle with pepper and salt. For dressing heat a pint of 
milk, thicken with flour, then cool, add two eggs and a quarter 
pound of butter, season with onion and parsley (very little of 
each.) Put in the baking dish a layer of fish, then a layer of 
sauce till lull, cover the top with bread crumbs and bake one- 
half hour. Mrs. Belle Gale. 



40 FISH AND SHEI.L FISH. 

Cod Fish Balls. 

One pint bowl full of raw fish, one pint bowl full of raw 
potatoes, two eggs and butter the size of an e^gg, a little pep- 
per. Pick the fish very fine and measure it lightly in the 
bowl. Put the potatoes into the boiler and the fish on top of 
them, then cover with boiling-hot water and boil one-half hour. 
Drain off all the water and mash fish and potatoes together until 
fine and light, then add the butter and pepper and eggs well 
beaten. Have a deep kettle of boiling fat, dip a tablespoon in 
it and then take up a spoonful of the mixture, taking care to 
get it into as good shape as possible, drop into the boiling fat 
and cook until brown, which should be in two minutes. Be 
careful not to crowd the balls, also that the fat is hot enough. 
The spoon should be dipped into the fat with every spoonful 
of the mixture. Mrs. Albert Davis. 

Croustade of O/sfers. 
Have a loaf of bread baked in a two quart basin, when twa 
or three days old, with a sharp knife take off the top crust and 
carefully remove the heart of the bread, being very careful not 
to break the crust, crumb the bread which you have removed 
ver>' fine and dry in a slow oven, then roll or pound very fine. 
Now quickly fry three teacups of crumbs in two tablespoons of 
butter. As soon as they begin to look golden and crisp they 
are done. It will take about two minutes over a hot fire, stir- 
ring all the time. Put one quart of sweet cream to boil and 
when it boils stir in three tablespoons of flour which has been 
mixed smooth in one-half cup of sweet milk, cook eight min- 
utes, season well with salt and pepper, put a layer of sauce in 
the Croustade, then a layer of oysters, which dredge well with 
salt and pepper, then another layer of sauce and one of fried 
crumbs. Continue this until the Croustade is nearly full, hav- 
ing the last layer a thick one of crumbs. It takes three pints 
of oysters for this dish, about three teaspoons of salt and half 
a teaspoon of pepper. Bake all together about an hour. 

Pigs in Blanket. 

Breakfast bacon cut just as thin as paper. Put large oys- 



FISH AND SHELL, FISH. 41 

ters in the slice of bacon and roll it up and pin together with 
toothpicks, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry in hot lard two 
minutes same as Croquettes. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Oyster Pie. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of cracker crumbs, one cup 
of milk, butter, salt, and pepper. Bake twenty minutes in two 
crusts. Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Fried Oysters. 

Wipe the oysters dry, dip in cracker crumbs, then in egg, 
well beaten, and afterward in bread crumbs, drop in hot lard 
and fry as you would doughnuts. Albion Milling Co. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

Butter a pudding dish, take two quarts of oysters, two 
quarts of dried bread crumbs rolled fine, one-half cup of butter, 
four teaspoons of salt, one-half teaspoon of Cayenne pepper, 
one-half cup of milk or cream. Bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Steamed Oysters. 

Put one quart of oysters in a basin with their own liquor, 
and place on stove in larger basin of hot water. Cover and 
steam until edges ruffle. Season with butter, pepper, and salt, 
and serve on hot toast. Mrs. M. Steel. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Drain oysters well and dry them with a napkin. Have a 
griddle hot and well buttered, season the oysters and lay them 
on the griddle, and brown them on both sides. Serve them 
on a hot plate with plenty of butter. 

Mrs. Henry Crittenden. 

Lobster Patties. 

Three hard boiled eggs. Mash the yolks and add butter 



42 fflSH AND SHELL FISH. 

the size of an egg and two large tablespoons of flour. Take 
one cup of boiling milk and thicken with the above mixture, 
add a little salt, a little curry and cayenne pepper. Chop two 
lobsters fine, grease shells and put in a layer of chopped lobster 
and one of the mixture. Have the mixture for the top layer. 
Sprinkle with bread crumbs and add a little melted butter. 
Bake about twenty minutes. Set the shells on rings to bake. 

Mrs. H. R. Stoepel. 



GeORGe ttOWftRD, 



PROPRIETOR OF THE 



CITY ! MARKET, 



AND DEALER IN ALL KINDS OF 



SMOKED MEATS AMD FRESH FISH. 



^WELCOME TO THE VARIETY STORE-«- 

MISSES HOLLON&HUNGERFORD, 

ALBION, MICH., 

Where you will find everything useful for the kitchen, 
and also 

RIBBONS, BASKETS, 

HOSIERY, STATIONERY, 

CORSETS, JEWELRY, 

HANDKERCHIEFS, UNDERWEAR, 

LACES, YARNS, 

GLOVES, ZEPHYRS, 

TOWELS, PLUSH GOODS. 



nEATS 



"Cooking meat is a fine art, to which you must bring comm'on sense and 
good judgment." 

Suggestions: In selecting beef choose that which is of a 
clear, bright, red color. 

Veal should be good sized, and the flesh dry ai«i of a pale 
pink color. Veal that is small, flabby and red in color, is not 
desirable. 

lyamb should be fat, the joints of bone red and porous. If 
old, the bone is white and solid. 

Mutton; good mutton is dark red with firm white fat. 

Pork should be rejected if there are kernels in the fat. The 
skin should be smooth and thin. 

Poultry when young has a thin, transparent skin, the joints 
tender, and the breast bone can be easily moved or bent with 
the fingers. 

When meat pressed by the finger rises up quickly it is 
prime. But if the dent disappears slowly, or not at all, it is 
inferior. 

When necessary to keep meat longer than was expected, 
sprinkle pepper, either black or red, over it. It is easily 
washed off" when ready for cooking. 

All meats except veal are better when kept a few days in a 
cool place. 

If you would preserve all the nutriment in fresh meat, do 
not use cold water, but place in boiling water and cook gently. 
Hard boiling toughens it. 

Allow twent}' minutes for boiling each pound of fresh meat, 
and fifteen or twenty minutes to the pound for roasting. 



MEATS. 45 

Salt meat should be put to boil in cold water, to extract 
the salt. 

When broiling steak give it your undivided attention. 
Never season while cooking. 

Add a few pepper corns to the water when you boil 
tongue and 3^ou will be pleased with the result. 

Before cooking mutton it is a good plan to loosen the thin out- 
side skin with a sharp knife and remove it entirely. The oil of 
the wool sometime penetrates through the skin and gives to 
the meat a strong woolly taste which is objectionable. 
Singe poultry with alcohol. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Take well boiled ham, one-third fat and two-thirds lean, 
chop it until it is as fine as paste, then stir in the yolk of an 
&gg. To one teaspoonful of mustard mix one tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire Sauce. Use this or more in such proporti ons 
as you may require. Mrs. M. D. Galloway. 

How to use Co Id Steak. 

Take pieces of cold steak or meat, chop fine, soak three or 
more slices of bread in some sweet milk, mash fine, one egg 
beaten, mix all together, season to taste, drop with a spoon 
into hot butter and fry brown. Mrs. E. N. Parsons. 

Turkey Dressed with Oysters. 

For a ten pound turkey take two pints of bread crumbs, one- 
half cup of butter (cut into bits, not melted), one teaspoonful 
of powdered thyme or summer savory, pepper and salt, mix 
thoroughly. Rub the turkey inside and out with salt and 
pepper, then fill first with a spoonful of crumbs, then a few 
well drained oysters, using one-half can for a turkey. Strain 
the oyster liquor and use to baste the turkey. Cook the giblets 
in the pan and chop fine for the gravy. A fowl of this size 
will require three hours in a moderate oven. 

Mrs, M. D. Galloway, 



46 MEATS. 

Chopped Ham. 

Take small and large pieces of boiled ham, both fat and lean, 
chop fine. Put into frying pan and let it cook for five minutes, 
then break into it three or four eggs, stir till they are cooked. 
Serve hot. Good for breakfast or tea. 

Mrs. Washington Gardner. 

Veal Cutlets (Breaded). 

Whip two eggs light and pour them into a pie-plate. Turn 
the cutlets one by one over in this until every part is coated. 
In another dish spread evenly a cupful of rolled crackers very 
fine ^^nd dry. Turn the cutlets over in this to encrust them- 
well. Have four large spoonfuls of lard or beef drippings 
melting in the frying pan at one side of the range. When 
the cutlets are all breaded move the pan directly over the fire, 
when hot put in as many cutlets as can lie without crowding. 
In five minutes turn with care not to loosen the crumb coat- 
ing, after another five minutes of rapid frying, move the pan 
to a spot where the cooking will go on slowly. In ten minutes 
turn them a second time, in another ten minutes they should 
be done. The fast cooking sears the surface of the meat and 
forms the breading into a firm crust that keeps in the juices. 
The slower work that follows cooks the veal thoroughly. 
Always have tomato catsup or tomato sauce to serve with 
cutlets. Mrs. Geo. Bortles, 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of veal boned and chopped, thirty crackers 
rolled fine, one egg, or two if extra nice, two-thirds cup butter, 
two tablespoons salt, one-fourth teaspoonful pepper, one table- 
spoonful sage, if liked. Mix well and bake one hour and a 
half in a .slow oven. Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Welton Veal. 

Boil four eggs hard, slice thin and place around the bottom 
of a two quart bowl. Lay over these a layer of uncooked 



MEATS. 47 

veal cut very thin, then a layer of cooked ham, also cut thin, 
fill the bowl with these alternate layers, cover closely with a 
plate and cook in a steamer three hours. Set in a cool place 
until the next day when it will slice nicely, 

Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of veal, boil until tender in a very little water, 
have chopped nearly one pound of salt pork, mix, add fine 
rolled crackers, season with pepper, and, if desired, a small 
chopped onion. Press firmly into a deep baking dish (a square 
one is best), beat an ^gg and pour over the top and bake one 
hour and a half Serve cold. The egg may be mixed with the 
veal if thought better. Mrs. Washington Gardner. 

Veal Loaf. 

Take two pounds of veal and chop it very fine, as for mince 
meat. Two coffee cups of bread crumbs, two eggs well beaten, 
one teaspoon of salt with black pepper mixed with it, a little 
sifted sage, or any other leaf 3'ou choose, add a lump of butter 
to suit your taste. Beat these all together in a chopping 
bowl, and put in an earthern pudding dish well buttered, press 
down very hard. Bake in a hot oven for an hour, let it get 
perfectly cold before you attempt to cut it, then it will be pos- 
sible to cut in thin slices. Mrs. Dr. Bruce. 

Mock Duck. 

Make a dressing the same as for a fowl, roll in steak, the 
round is better, tie well with cords. Put a good sized lump of 
butter, some water, salt and pepper in the pan. Bake for half 
an hour, basting frequently. Mrs. E, N. Parsons. 

Potted Tongue. 
Pound cold boiled tongue to a paste, and season with salt, 
pepper, and a speck of cayenne. To each pint of the paste 
add one tablespoon of butter and one teaspoonful of mixed 



48 MEATS. 

mustard. Pack closely in stone jars. Place these in a mod- 
erate oven in a pan of hot water, cook half an hour. When 
cool cover the tongue with melted butter, cover and put away. 

Carrie Fisher. 

Chicken Pie. 

Two cups of sweet milk, one cup of sweet cream, butter 
size of an ^gg (melted), four teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
a little salt, mix flour (not quite two quarts) and baking pow- 
der together thoroughly, line the side of the pah, but not the 
bottom, then put in two or three nicely cooked and seasoned 
chickens (remove every bone), add about a pint of gravy, 
cover and bake nicely. Place before your husband and he 
will soon be too full for utterance. Mrs. W. A. Anderson. 

Beef Loaf. 

One and one-half pounds beefsteak, cut away the fat and 
stringy parts and chop very fine. One cup rolled crackers, one 
cup of bread crumbs, two eggs, three-fourths cup of butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk or water, season with pepper and salt, 
mix all together, make into a loaf and bake until done. 
Baste occasionally. Miss Frances Staples. 

A Nice Breakfast Dish. 

Take any nice bits of roast or boiled meats, hash them, 
also hash cold potatoes, biscuit or bread together. Put a 
layer of hashed meat in a pudding dish, slice very thin and lay 
a few pieces of onion over it, then a layer of hashed potato and 
bread crumbs with pepper, salt and small pieces of butter and 
some of the prepared sauce or gravy served with the meat the 
day previous. Continue to alternate these layers until the tin 
is filled. Bake for three-fourths of an hour. The onion may 
be left out if desired. Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Take thinly sliced dried beef, and if very salt, freshen it, put 



MEATS. 49 

some butter into a frying pan, let it brown, not burn, put in the 
beef, let it cook slowly ten minutes, dredge it with flour, let it 
brown a little, add good milk, let it boil and the flour will 
thicken it. Very nice for tea. 

Chopped Beef Steak. 
Have your market man chop fine good round steak, make 
it into small flat cakes, fry quickly in a little butter, if desired 
rare, if not then cook slowly until thoroughly done, make 
gravy of melted butter and a little water, serve hot. 

Mrs. Washington Gardner. 

Beef Steak. 
Beef Steak may be cooked verj^ nicely when no broiler is 
at hand by placing a common spider over a hot stove until 
very hot, then put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
and when very hot lay in the steak, turning often, keeping the 
heat the same until done, which will be very soon. Serve on 
a hot platter immediately. Sprinkle salt and pepper on the 
steak after turning. Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Beef Loaf. 

Two pounds of beef steak, the round. Chop very fine, 
raw, three eggs, two tablespoons of butter, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one cup grated bread crumbs, one cup rolled 
crackers, salt and pepper to taste, mix all well together, make 
into a loaf, bake two hours slowly in a covered tin, basting 
several times. Mrs. S. Berry. 

Beef Loaf. 

Two pounds ot beefsteak chopped fine, one and one-half cups 
of rolled cracker, two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one-lfalf 
teaspoon of pepper, one and one-half teaspoons of salt, buttec 
the size of an egg. Bake two hours. Mrs. J. H. Ott. 

/ea/ Croquettes. 
One-half cup of sweet milk, one cup of bread crumbs, one 



50 MEATS. 

cup finely chopped meat, one teaspoon of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoon of pepper, two tablespoons of butter, boil the milk in 
double boiler, then add meat, bread crumbs and seasoning. 
When this gets hot, add one well beaten egg, stir it in 
thoroughly, then turn it out on a plate to cool. When cool 
make into oblong balls, roll in egg then in bread crumbs and 
fi-y in boiling lard. They ought to be soft inside when done, 
if not you have too much bread. It depends a great deal on the 
condition of the crumbs. If they are dry as powder, you do 
not need as much. I generally use very stale bread and grate 
it finely. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One solid pint of finely chopped chicken, one tablespoon of 
salt, one-half teaspoon of pepper, one cup of cream or chicken 
stock, one tablespoon of flour, two eggs, one teaspoon of onion 
juice, one teaspoon of lemon juice, three tablespoons of butter, 
put cream or stock on to boil, mix flour and butter together 
and stir into boiling cream, then add chicken and seasoning. 
Boil two minutes, then add the eggs well beaten. Take from 
the fire and set away to cool. When cold shape into balls, and 
roll in bread crumbs and egg and fry in boiling lard. A tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley is an improvement. 

Mrs. L. Angevine Kempf 

Chicken or Veal Croquettes. 

Take cold chicken or veal, mince very fine, moisten with 
cold gravy, if at hand, and add one ^gg, season with pepper 
and salt. Make into small cakes, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in lard and butter. One cup of fresh boiled 
rice may be added before making into cakes. 

Mrs. C. B. Scheffler. 

Tomato Sauce. 

One quart of canned tomatoes, two tablespoons of butter, 
two of flour. Cook the tomatoes ten minutes, heat the butter 
in a small frying pan and add the fl^ur. Stir over the fire un- 



MEATS. 51 

til smooth and brown and then stir into the tomatoes, cook 
two minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and rub 
through a strainer fine enough to keep back the seeds. Sea- 
son with onion if you wish. Mrs. Belle Gale. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One solid pint of finely chopped cooked chicken or other 
meat. One tablespoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of pepper, 
one cup full of cream or chicken stock, one tablespoon of 
flour, four eggs, one tablespoon of onion juice, one tablespoon 
of lemon juice, one pint of crumbs, and three tablespoons of 
butter. Put the cream or stock on to boil, mix flour and 
butter together and stir into cream, then add rest, and boil two 
minutes, then add two of the eggs well beaten. When cool, 
shape and roll in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Belle Gale. 

Chickens and Mushrooms. 

Boil two chickens until tender, pick them up into small 
pieces as you would for salad, take one can of mushrooms and 
boil them in their own liquor for five minutes, cut them into 
small pieces and mix with the chicken. Make a cream sauce 
as follows: Oiie teaspoon of flour to a cup of cream, pour this 
over the chicken and mushrooms. This amount will probably 
require about three cups of cream. Season with pepper and 
salt, put dried bread crumbs over the top. Bake three-quarters 
of an hour in a quick oven. Mrs. H. R. Stoepel. 

Fricasseed Liver. 

Chop cold liver fine and place in a spider, nearly cover it 
with hot water, and season with one-half cup of butter and salt 
and pepper. Toast bread and pour the liver over it. Serve 
hot. M. Eloise Merritt. 






F.'.i^SS^'S 



m^^i^mj^mjl 



HOES, FORKS, SCYTHES, SNATHS, Etc., 



MANUFACTURED BY 



WITHINGTON & GOOLEY MF'G CO, 



• • • -««*■ • • • 



Tickle the Earth with a Hoe made by 

WITHINGTON & COOLEY MFG CO-, 

and it will Laugh with a Harvest. 



LftDieS' FLORftL TOOLS 

Of the Latest and Most 

Approved Style and 

Quality 



If your dealer does not keep them, he will order for you. 



VEGETABLES, 

"To select well among old things is almost equal to inventing new ones." 
Potato Croquettes. 
Boil and mash four or five potatoes, add cream, butter and 
salt, cream them and add the well beaten white of one Qgg, 
make into oblong rolls, putting two good sized oysters in each 
roll. Dip in beaten egg and roll in cracker crumbs, put a small 
piece of butter on the top of each one and bake a light brown 
in a quick oven, or thej^ can be placed in a wire egg basket and 
fried in hot lard. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Escaloped Potatoes. 

Slice potatoes verj^ thin, place in a baking dish, with salt, 
pepper and small pieces of butter, milk enough to cover, bake 
slowly one hour. Very nice when the potatoes are old. 

Mellie E. Gardner. 

Escaloped Tomatoes. 
Butter a two quart dish well on sides and bottom, then put 
a layer of rolled crackers (not too fine) seasoned with salt, pep- 
per and small pieces of butter, cover this with a layer of the thick 
part of canned tomatoes and moisten with water and milk, so 
continue till the dish is full, having the top layer of crumbs. 
Put in a hot oven, cover for one-ha!f hour, then remove cover 
and bake a light brown. Part bread crumbs can be used with 
the crackers if desired. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Saratoga Chips. 
Peel good sized potatoes and slice them lengthwise as thin 
as possible. Put them into a large pan of ice-cold water and 



54 VEGETABLES. 

let Stand over night or several hours. Take them out on a 
cloth and let them dry oflf, and then fry a light brown in hot 
lard. When taken from the lard they should be placed on a 
cloth to absorb the grease. Mrs. Steel. 

Boiled Onions. 

After taking off the outer skin let them soak in cold water 
for two hours, or longer if you like them mild, let them be 
cooked in boiling water, which should be strongly salted. 
Drain off the water as soon as they are almost done, then let 
them simmer in milk until quite tender, add a good bit of 
butter, pepper and salt. Mrs. Dr. Bruce. 

Corn Oysters. 

Take one dozen ears of corn, split the kernels of each with 
the back of a knife, add to the milk of the corn a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Pepper and salt to taste, one-half 
cup of milk, one tablespoon of flour, three well beaten eggs. 
Fry as pancakes and serve. Mrs. Henry Crittenden. 

Tomato Meringue. 

First take a deep dish and put in a layer one inch deep of 
ripe tomatoes pared and sliced, on this a thin layer of sliced 
onion, over this bits of butter and sprinkling of salt and pep- 
per, on this a layer of bread crumbs, then another layer of 
tomatoes, etc., until the dish is filled, leaving the bread on top, 
place in the oven and bake nearly an hour. Very nice. 

Mrs. G. H. Graves. 

Baked Potatoes. 

If potatoes are wiped dry they will bake much sooner than 
if put into the oven wet from washing them. 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oysters. 

Wash and scrape the roots, dropping into cold water as soon 
as cleaned. Exposure to the air will make them black. Cut up 
into inch pieces, put into a saucepan with hot water enough to 



VEGETABLES. 55 

cheese, a small piece of butter, some made mustard, a little salt, 
and pepper, in a frying pan over the fire and stew until smooth, 
adding a little milk to it. When it is hot, and a smooth paste, 
spread it on toasted slices of bread, or Sea Foam crackers. 
Serve hot. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Scrape them and cut in round rings, one-fourth inch thick, 
cook until tender in a little water and then drain the water off 
and put on about two tablespoons of cream or milk, a lump of 
butter and pepper and salt to taste. 

Miss Ivinda F. Hughes. 

Boiled Onions. 

Boil till thoroughly done, drain, dry and season with salt, 
pepper, butter and three tablespoons of vinegar to a dozen 
common sized onions. I^et this come to a boil and serve hot. 

M. Eloise Merritt. 

Boiled Onions. 

Cook at first in water with a little pinch of soda, drain off 
and put on clear water and boil, then boil in salted water until 
tender. Season with cream, butter, pepper and salt. 

Miss Linda F. Hughes. 

Corn Oysters. 

One pint of grated sweet corn, one egg, one gill of cream, 
one cup of flour, one-half teaspoon of baking powder, salt and 
pepper. Bake on a griddle like cakes. 

Mrs. R. C. Welch. 



EMTREES 



"When we say there is nothing new under the sun, we do not count forgotten 
things." 

Macaroni With Cheese. 

Break twelve sticks of macaroni into inch pieces and put 
into three pints of boiling water, boil twenty minutes, drain in 
a colander, put in a shallow baking dish and cover with a white 
sauce made of one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour, one 
and one-half cups of milk, season and stir together, and add 
one-half cup of grated cheese and two-thirds cup of cracker 
crumbs, mixed with one-half cup of butter (melted), sprinkle 
in alternate layers with the macaroni, and bake until brown. 

Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Escaloped Cheese. 

Soak a cup of bread crumbs in new milk, beat into this 
three well beaten eggs, add a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
and a half pound of grated cheese. Sprinkle the top with 
sifted bread crumbs and bake a delicate brown. 

Cheese Straws. 
Three tablespoons of grated cheese, add three tablespoons 
of flour, one tablespoon of melted butter, one tablespoon of 
water, add the yolk of one egg, roll them as for cookies, cut in 
strips five inches long and one-half inch wide. Bake fifteen 
minutes. They are delicious with salad. 

Mrs. F. F. Hoaglin. 

We/sh Rarebit. 
Cut, and grate one-fourth pound of good cheese. Put the 



ENTREES. 57 

of butter, some made mustard, a little salt and pepper. Put it 
in a frying pan over the fire and stir until smooth, add a little 
milk to it, when it is hot and a smooth paste, spread it on 
slices of nicely toasted bread, or Sea Foam crackers. 

Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Fritters. 

One quart of flour, one pint of sweet milk, two teaspoons 
of Royal baking powder, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately and added last, a pinch of salt, drop from a large 
spoon into hot lard and fry. Eaten with maple syrup. 

Mrs. W. H. Brock way. 

Fried Apples. 

Take any nice sour cooking apples, and after wiping them, 
cut into slices about one- fourth of an inch thick; have a frying 
pan ready, in which there is a small amount of lard (say one- 
half or three-fourths of an inch in depth, ^he lard must be 
hot before the slices of apples are put in. Let one side of them 
fry until brown, then turn, and put a small quantity of sugar 
on the browned side of each slice. By the time the other side 
is browned the sugar will be melted and spread over the whole 
surface. Mrs. Geo. Graves. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper and salt, beat to 
a cream with a tablespoonful of melted butter to each cup of 
potato, add two beaten eggs, roll in bread or cracker crumbs 
and fry in hot lard. Mrs. Belle Gale. 

Salted Almonds. 

Blanch one pound of almonds and drj^, add one dessert spoon 
of fine salt, spread on buttered pans and brown in the oven, 
stirring frequently. 



SALADS. 



"The stomach is a slave that must accept everything that is given to it, but 
which avenges wrongs as slyly as the slave does." 

Suggestions: Have everything as cold as possible. Every- 
thing used in making SAIyADS should be of the freshest 
material. In using olive oil, put in just a drop at a time, stirring 
constantly. 

Do not chop chicken for SAI^AD, but cut |nto small bits 
with a knife. If cream is used, whip it and put in just before 
serving. Use HOME MADE mustard, having mixed it with 
a little vinegar the day before using. 

Salad Dressing, 

Rub the yolks of four hard boiled eggs very smooth, with 
one teaspoonful each of mustard, salt and pepper, and just a 
little cayenne. Add gradually the yolks of eight eggs well 
beaten, one cup of butter warmed, not melted, and a small cup 
of sugar. Put nearly a pint of vinegar into a double boiler 
and when hot add the mixture, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Just before using add one-half cup of whipped 
cream and I think you will find it very nice. 

Mrs. R. J. Frost. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Shred the cabbage very fine and cut a little celery in small 
bits and pour over it the following dressing: Yolks of 
five eggs with eight tablespoons of vinegar, put in a 
double kettle or basin which is put in a larger one containing 
boiling water, cook until it is very thick, stirring all the 



SALADS. 59 

time. When cool put in one half cup or more of thick 
whipped cream, mustard, pepper, salt, and a little sugar. If 
it is not sour enough add a little more vinegar. 

Mrs. H. W. Mosher. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

One tablespoon of mustard, one of sugar, one-tenth of a 
teaspoon of cayenne, one teaspoon of salt, the yolks of three 
uncooked eggs, the juice of half a lemon, a quarter of a cup of 
vinegar, a pint of oil and a cupful of whipped cream. Beat 
the yolks and dry ingredients until they are very light and 
thick with a silver or wooden spoon, or better still, a Dover 
egg beater. The bowl in which the dressing is made should 
be set in a pan of ice water during the beating. Add a few 
drops of oil at a time until the dressing becomes very thick 
and rather hard — after it has reached this stage the oil can be 
added more rapidly. When it gets so thick the beater turns 
hard add a little vinegar. When the last of the oil and vine- 
gar has been added it should be very thick. Now add the 
lemon juice and whipped cream, and place on the ice for a few 
hours unless you are ready to use it. The cream may be 
omitted without injury. Mrs. S. V. Irwin. 

Oyster Salad. 

One quart of oysters, four heads of celery. Steam oysters 
until plump, cut in two, cut the celery fine with a knife and 
add a little salt and pepper. Dressing. Two eggs, one-half 
cup butter, one-half cup good vinegar, one teaspoon of made 
mustard, one teaspoon of cornstarch made smooth with a little 
vinegar. Steam until thick. When cold add a wine glass of 
cream. Mrs. Dr. Parmeter. 

Oyster Salad. 

One quart of oysters, three pints of chopped or cut celery. 
Cook the oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl, then 
drain and add to them one tablespoon of oil, one of vinegar, 
a little salt and pepper, and then place in the ice 



6o SALADS. 

chest. Just before serving drain the oysters again and mix 
with the celery and pour over the whole a Mayonnaise dressing. 
Very nice. From Margery Daw. Mrs. Geo. W. Maher. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Two quarts chopped cabbage ^ two level tablespoons of salt, 
two heaping tablespoons of white sugar, one tablespoon of 
black pepper, a heaping tablespoon of ground mustard. Rub 
the yolks of four hard boiled eggs until smooth, add one-half 
cup of butter slightly warmed, mix thoroughly with the cab- 
bage and add one teacup of good vinegar. Serve with the 
whites of the eggs sliced and placed on the salad. 

Mrs. N. B. Gardner. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Two quarts of cabbage and five hard boiled eggs chopped 
together fine, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of good vin- 
egar, one teaspoon of mustard, one-half teaspoon of celery 
seed, pepper and salt to taste. Mrs. A. J. Gale. 

Shrimp Salad. 

One can of shrimp chopped and an equal amount of chopped 
celery. Dressing: Four eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately, two tablespoons of mixed mustard, two teaspoons of 
salt and one of pepper, butter the size of an egg, six or eight 
tablespoons of good vinegar. Boil all together in the basin 
set in another of hot water. When thick, remove from the fire 
and let cool, then pour over your shrimps and celery and, if 
necessary, add more vinegar and cream to taste. 

Helen Davis. 

Potato Salad. 

Into a salad dish sHce a layer of cold potatoes and cucum- 
bers, add sparingly finely cut onions, and season with salt and 
pepper, cover with Mayonnaise dressing, and proceed as above 
with each layer until the dish is filled. Garnish with bits of 
celery leaves or parsley, pouring some of the dressing on top. 



SALADS. 6 1 

Mayonnaise Dressing: To one-half pint of vinegar a piece of 
butter the size of an ogg, two teaspoons mustard, one of celery 
seed, one-fourth teaspoonful of curry powder, one-fourth of red 
pepper and two tablespoons of sugar. When hot, not boiling, 
pour in the yolks of six eggs, which have been thoroughly 
beaten. Stir constantly until thick enough. When cold add 
one teacup of whipped cream. Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Salmon Salad. 
One can salmon cut in small pieces, one very small head of 
cabbage chopped, one dozen small pickles chopped, two hard 
boiled eggs chopped. Mix the ingredients well together and 
pour over them a pint of scalding hot vinegar, seasoning it 
wdth salt, pepper and mustard to suit the taste. 

Mrs. F. D. Roudenbush. 

Salad Dressing for Cabbage. 

Two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup warm but- 
ter, one even teaspoon of salt, pepper to taste, one even tea- 
spoon of mustard. Beat all together until smooth with Dover 
egg beater. Have on the stove in a new sauce pan two-thirds 
cup of vinegar; when hot add the other ingredients and cook 
until thick and smooth, stirring constantly. If not convenient 
to stir, cook in a water bath. To use the same for veal or 
chicken salad take but one tablespoon of sugar, two of salt and 
a little more mustard. Mrs. Prof Taylor. 

Sandwich Dressing. 

One-half pound of butter, two tablespoons of mixed mus- 
tard, three tablespoons of salad oil, a little red or white pepper, 
a little salt and the yolk of one &gg. Rub the butter to a 
cream, add the other ingredients and mix thoroughl)^ and set 
away to cool. Spread the bread with this mixture and put in 
the ham chopped fine. Mrs. John G. Brown. 

Salad Dressing. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs, add one cup of w'hite sugar, 



62 SALADS. 

one tablespoon each of salt, mustard and black ptpper, a little 
cayenne and one half cup of cream. Mix thoroughly, bring 
to a boil one cup and one-half of vinegar and one cup of but- 
ter — pour upon the mixture, stir well, and when cold put in 
cans or bottles and set in a cool place. It will keep for weeks 
in the hottest weather. It is particularly good for lettuce or 
cabbage. Do not make so sweet if used for other salads. 

Mrs. Washington Gardner. 

Chicken Salad. 

The white meat of two chickens cut up fine and the same 
amount of cut celery. One pint of vinegar, four eggs, one 
teaspoon salt, one-half pepper, two of melted butter and four of 
French mustard. Beat the eggs thoroughly and add the melted 
.butter, salt, pepper and mustard. Heat the vinegar to boiling 
point and pour in slowly, stirring constantly. Steam until it 
thickens. When thoroughly cold pour into the mixed chicken 
and celery. Mrs. Matthew Steel. 

Salad Dressing. 

Yolks of six eggs beaten with six tablespoons of vinegar 
aod four teaspoons of salt and cayenne mixed in the proportion 
of seven to one. Set the bowl containing these ingredients in 
hot water and stir until it thickens, add a lump of butter the 
size of an &%g. Use mustard if you like it. When used add 
an equal quantity of sweet cream. The juirc of a lemon im- 
proves it. Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Sandwich Dressing. 

One large coffee cup of cold meat or fowl, three teaspoons 
of salad oil, yolk of one hard boiled e:gg, one half pound of 
butter, one-fourth teaspoon of cayenne pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, three teaspoons mixed mustard. Mince cold ham, 
beef, tongue or chicken, one, or all together as you have them, 
add the other ingredients and beat smooth. Spread this be- 



SALADS. 63 

tween thinly cut slices of bread. If wrapped in 'a damp 
napkin they will keep good for several daj^s. 

Mrs. A. J. Gale. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil one chicken until tender. Take one tablespoon of 
mustard, three eggs boiled hard, chop the whites with the 
chicken, rub the yolks up fine with the mustard, one table- 
spoon of salt, three of melted butter, one teaspoon of black 
pepper. Chop three heads of celery, two tablespoons of cream 
— mix all together with vinegar enough to moisten. 

Mrs. Fred Groflf. 

Lobster Salad. 

One can of lobster, cut two large stalks of celeiy fine, mix 
and add the least hint of onion if desired. Pour good home- 
made or Durkee's salad dressing over it. Salmon may be 
used in the same way, substituting lettuce for celery, and orna- 
menting with same, or celery may be used with lettuce. If 
lettuce is used it must stand in a cool place until just before 
serving, and not mix it with the other ingredients until the 
last thing. Put a few whole cloves into the salad. 

Mrs. W. Gardner. 

Salmon Salad. 

One' can of fresh salmon, four bunches of celery, chopped 
as for chicken salad and mixed with the salmon. Dressing: One 
teaspoon of mustard, two tablespoons of vinegar, yolks of 
two eggs, salt to taste and a little red pepper, mix all thoroughly 
and cook until it thickens. Add to the salmon and celery 
when cold. This is also nice without the celery. 

Mrs. J. G. Brown. 

Lettuce Dressing. 
One teaspoon of mustard mixed with vinegar, two eggs, one 
teacup of sugar, one-half teaspoon of pepper, one teaspoon of 



64 SALADS. 

salt, butter size of an egg, one cup of vinegar, cook in a dish 
of hot water until it thickens, then stir in a cup of cream. 

Mrs. Mary Dickie. 

A Pretty Salad. 

Arrange the leaves of curly lettuce on a plate, on this slice 
some cucumber, add a slice or two of onion if the flavor is de- 
sired, also some , slices of tomato and radish to give color. 
Serve with dressing. Mrs. Belle Gale. 

Salad Dressing. 

Six tablespoons of vinegar, yolks of six eggs, butter size of 
an egg, and one teaspoon each of salt, pepper and mustard. 
Cook all together after beating eggs and vinegar together with 
egg beater. • Mrs. Chas. Knickerbocker. 



EGGS. 

"Be gentle to the new-laid egg, 
For eggs are brittle things." 

Plain Omelet. 

One teacup of sweet milk with a tablespoon of flour stirred 
very smoothly into it. Add a little salt and beat six eggs, 
whites and yolks separately, and add just before baking. Bake 
in tin greased with lard and butter mixed together. 

Albion Milling Co. 

Bread Omelet. 

One cup of bread crumbs, one cup of sweet cream or milk, 
two eggs, lump of butter the size of a walnut, salt and pepper. 
Beat up thoroughly and bake in a hot buttered pan. 

Mrs. W. H. Brock way. 

Stuffed or Pickled Eggs. 

Boil eggs fifteen minutes, cut open and take out the yolks, 
season with butter, salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar, fill the 
wJaites and place together. Mrs. F. D. Roudenbush. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes, plunge in cold water, remove 
the shells and cut lengthwise half in two, remove the yolks and 
put the following mixture into the whites: Mash yolks and 
add one teaspoon of soft butter, a teaspoonful of chopped onion 
and one-half teacup of deviled ham or scraps of beef highly 



66 EGGS. 

seasoned. Fill the whites with the mixture and fit them to- 
gether and then spread the remainder of the yolks on a shallow 
dish and place the eggs on it, cover with a thin butter gravy, 
sprinkle over with buttered bread crumbs and brown in the 
oven. The stuffed eggs are nice for lunch without the gravy, 
bread crumbs and baking. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Baked Eggs. 

Break eight eggs into a well buttered dish, put in pepper 
and salt, bits of butter and three tablespoons of sweet cream. 
Set in the oven and bake about twenty minutes. Serve very 
hot. (Tested.) 

Fried Eggs. 

Butter some gem irons and break an o^gg in each one. 
Season with salt and pepper and set in the oven to cook. Very 
nice. 

Nice Supper Dish. 

Slice six hard boiled eggs, put in a dish well buttered first 
a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of sliced o^gg, fill the 
dish with alternate layers, seasoning with salt and pepper and 
butter, pour over this one and one-half cups of milk and bake 
about thirty minutes. (Tested.) 

French Omelet. 

One cup of boiling milk, with a tablespoon of butter melted 
in it, pour this on one cup of bread crumbs (the bread must 
be light). Add salt, pepper and yolks of six eggs well beaten, 
mix thoroughly, and lastly add the six whites cut to a stiff 
froth, mix lightly and frj'- with hot butter. This will make 
two. 

Baked Eggs. 
Break as many eggs as desired into a buttered dish, taking 



EGGS. 67 

care that each is whole and does not encroach upon the others. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt and put a bit of butter upon 
each. Put in a moderate oven and bake till the whites are set. 
This is far superior to fried eggs and very nice for breakfast 
served on toast. Mrs. C. B. Scheffler. 




MRS. MATTHEW STEEL, 



Remington Typewriter 



PICKLES AMD SPICED FRUITS. 

" Love never dies of starvation, but often of indigestion. " 

Suggestions: — Always use a porcelain or granite ware kettle 
in which to heat your vinegar. 

Use the best home-made, white wine, or cider vinegar and 
never boil it long as it reduces its strength. 

A little alum will make pickles firm and crisp. 

If ground spices are called for tie them in a thin muslin bag. 

Small pieces of horse radish scattered through your pickles 
will keep them from moulding and add strength to the vinegar. 

Put your fancy pickles in glass cans, sealing while hot as 
you do any other fruit. The cans cost but little and your 
pickles will not ferment. 

In making sweet pickles use the" best coflfee sugar. 

Green Tomato Soy. 

Two gallons green tomatoes sliced, twelve good sized onions 
sliced, two quarts of vinegar, one quart brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of salt, two tablespoons ground mustard, the same 
of black pepper, one tablespoon allspice, the same of cloves. 
Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring often lest *it 
should scorch. Put in glass jars. This makes a nice pickle 
for almost any kind of meat or fish. '^ 

Mrs. John Grofif. 

Sweet Apple Pickles. 

Seven pounds of fruit after being pared and cored, three 
and one-half pounds of sugar, one ounce of cloves, one ounce 
of cinnamon, one pint c^ vinegar. Mike a syrup of the 
vinegar and sugar, cook the prepared apples in it a few at a 



70 PICKLES AND SPICED FRUITS. 

time until tender, then put in the spices and cook the syrup 
down and pour over the fruit. Mrs. W. H. Brcckway. 

French Pickles. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced and salted over night, 
drain in the morning and chop fine, add two large cabbages, 
four onions and twelve green peppers all chopped fine, cover 
with vinegar and boil until tender, then drain through a col- 
ander, add one-half ounce allspice and the same of mustard 
and one and one-half pounds of sugar. Mix thoroughly and 
add fresh vinegar. Mrs, J. G. BrowTi. 

Chili Sauce. 
One peck of ripe tomatoes peeled, three green peppers and 
six large onions chopped together, then add four cups of vine- 
gar, one-half cup of salt and one cup of sugar. Cook one 
hour and bottle. If preferred, spice may be added. 

Mrs. Chas. E. Barr. 

Pickled Pears. 

To seven pounds of fruit take four pounds of sugar and 
one quart of vinegar. Boil the sugar and vinegar together, 
then add spices in a bag and boil. Put in pears and cook 
until done. Mrs. Horace Ball. 

Chili Sauce. 
Eighteen ripe tomatoes, four onions, two red peppers chop- 
ped all together. Five teacups of vinegar, one teaspoon each 
cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one tablespoon of ginger, five 
tablespoons of Vjrown sugar. Cook two hours stirring 
frequently to avoid burning. Put in bottles for use. 

Mis. E. E. Goodenow. 

Spiced Plums. 

Eight pounds of plums, four pounds of sugar, one teaspoon 
of cloves, two of cinnamon, one 1#acup of vinegar. Cook 
initil as thick as jelly. Mrs. Geo. W. Maher. 



PICKLES AND SPICED FRUITS. 7 1 

Spiced Peaches. 
Take very nice peaches, wipe them to remove the bloom. 
To six pounds brown sugar take one quart of good cider vinegar, 
add cloves, cinnamon, etc., and cook one-half hour or until 
like syrup. Then put the peaches in and cook until a fork 
will go into them ea.sily. Put into cans while hot. One and 
one-half rule makes twenty quarts. Nellie B. Peabody. 

Chowder. 

One peck of greeu tomatoes, four large green peppers, six 
onions, and one-half head of cabbage, all chopped fine. One 
pint of grated horse radish, two pounds of brown sugar. Let 
the chopped tomatoes lay over night with salt sprinkled 
through them, in the morning drain them, mix all the ingredi- 
ents and put in a crock with the spices in a bag, cover with 
scalded vinegar. Mrs. Chas. E. Barr. 

Celery Sauce (do not cook.) 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes, put through a colander, one- 
half cup of horse radish, one cup of salt, one of mustard seed, 
one of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one tablespoon of black 
pepper, two tablespoons red pepper pods, chopped fine, one 
ounce of celery seed, one teaspoon cloves and two ounces of 
cinnamon. Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Antwerp Sauce. 

Four common sized onions, one-half peck ripe tomatoes 
skinned, two red peppers, one-half scant teacup salt, one teacup 
of white sugar, three-fourths teacup of white mustard seed, 
one teacup of grated horse radish, two tablespoons of ground 
cloves, three tablespoons of celery seed, two tablespoons ground 
cinnamon, two tablespoons black pepper, one quart of cider 
vinegar. Directions for making — chop peppers and onions 
very fine, chop the tomatoes and drain them, mix well with 
the spices and put in a stone jar with a cover. Do not cook. 
Good with cold meats. Mrs W. H Brockway. 



72 PICKLES AND SPICED FRUITS. 

Pear Pickles. 

Seven pounds of peeled pears, three and one-half pounds of 
sugar, one pint of vinegar, two ounces of cinnamon bark, one 
ounce whole cloves. Peel the pears, weigh them and put in a 
stone jar, scald the sugar, vinegar and spices together and 
pour over the pears three days in succession, the last time 
scald the pears and syrup together. Early Bartlett pears are 
the best to use. Use porcelain kettle. Mrs. S. Berry. 

Nine Day Pickles. 

One gallon of vinegar, two-thirds cup of salt, one table- 
spoon of pulverized alum, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one cup of sliced horseradish. Heat this nine 
mornings and pour over the cucumbers. 

Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Bordo Pickles. 
Four quarts of cabbage sliced very fine, two quarts green 
tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced, two red peppers 
chopped, one-half ounce of turmeric, one-half ounce whole all- 
spice, one-half ounce whole cloves, two ounces white mustard 
seed, one-half ounce celery seed, fourteen ounces sugar, two 
quarts of vinegar, one-half teacup salt. Mix all together with 
spoon then boil twenty minutes and can while .hot. 

Mrs. S. W. Hill. 

Ragout Pickles. 

Four quarts cabbage, shaved, one pint onions, chopped, 
one pint of sugar, two pints of vinegar, two tablespoons all- 
spice, two of cloves, one gill of white mustard seed and one 
ounce of celery seed. Mix all together and scald. 

Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Chili Sauce. 

One peck ripe tomatoes, six red peppers, four onions, four 



PICKLES AND SPICED FRUITS. 73 

cups of vinegar, two of sugar, three-fourths cup of salt. Chop 
all together and boil nearly two hours. Mrs. Keller. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

One cup of coarse salt to one gallon of water — scald and 
pour over small cucumbers four mornings in succession. The 
fifth morning scald equal parts of vinegar and water and a 
piece of alum the size of a walnut, and allow them to stand 
twenty-four hours. Then scald pure cider vinegar seasoned 
with white mustard seed, celery, cloves, allspice and a stick of 
cinnamon — sweeten a little and pour while hot over the pickles 
already dried and packed in cans. Mrs. R. J. Frost. 

French Mustard Pickles. 

One quart of small cucumbers, two of onions, one of cut 
green tomatoes, two red and one green pepper cut in strips, 
one ounce of turmeric seed, pulverized, one quart of large 
cucumbers, cut small, one quart very small tomatoes, three 
good sized heads cauliflower, one-half pound mustard, six cups 
sugar, one gallon vinegar, two cups flour. Let the vegetables 
stand in salt water over night — drain well, heat vinegar boil- 
ing hot and put in the vegetables, cook five minutes. Take 
sugar, flour, turmeric seed and mustard and make a paste and 
stir in vinegar and vegetables, can and seal. 

Mrs. A. A. Knappen. 

Cold Tomato Catsup. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes skinned and chopped fine, add 
one and one-half cups of salt and let drain until the water is 
out. Chop three stalks of celery fine and add one cup of white 
mustard seed, one tablespoon black pepper, one teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, one cup sugar, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves, and allspice, three small onions chopped fine, three 
pints vinegar, then mix well and put in cans without cooking. 
Close the cans tightly and put away for use. 

Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 



74 PICKLES AND SPICED FRUITS. 

Tomato Butter. 

Nine pounds of tomatoes cooked down, three pounds of 
srgar, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one teaspoon allspice, one 
teaspoon of black pepper. Dora H. Sackett. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced and soaked in salt water 
over night. In the morning drain well. Take one quart 
vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, one tablespoon each of 
ground cloves and cinnamon, put in a bag and scald in the 
vinegar ten minutes. Then add the tomatoes and scald slowly 
one hour. Put in glass cans. Mrs. John Ferine. 

Tomato Catsup. 

One teaspoon allspice, one of black pepper, one and one- 
half teaspoons of cinnamon, four teaspoons of mustard, one 
pint of vinegar and two quarts of tomato juice. 

Dora H. Sackett. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Sprinkle with salt and cover with boiling water, let stand 
twenty-four hours. Take from the brine and pour over them 
the following: One quart of boiling vinegar two-thirds cup of 
brown sugar, one tablespoon of ground mustard. Let them re- 
main in this three days. Then drain and put them in the 
following: Vinegar to cover, two and one-half cups of brown 
sugar, all kinds of spices and black mustard seed. I have 
better success keeping mine in cans than in a crock 

Mustard Pickles. 

Two large heads of cauliflower, two small cabbages, two 
quarts silver-skin onions, two quarts of small cucumbers, one 
quart of large cucumbers pared and sliced, one quart of green 
tomatoes sliced, three green peppers sliced. Let stand in brine 
over night. Drain two hours. Pour over the following dressing 
and cook twenty minutes : Two and one-half quarts of vine- 



picki.es and spickd fruits. 75 

gSLT, two cups of brown sugar, one cup of flour, six table- 
spoonsfull of mustard. Mrs. H. M. Brown. 

To Pickle Peaches or Pears. 

Take one-half peck of peaches, two pounds of brown 
sugar, one ounce of whole cloves, one ounce of stick cinnamon, 
one pint of sharp vinegar, put eight cloves in each peach, 
make the syrup and boil the peaches until soft enough to put 
a straw through them, then take them out and put the vinegar 
in and boil down, put the cinnamon and cloves in when the 
peaches are taken out, when boiled down pour on the peaches. 

Mrs. Henry Crittenden. 

Spiced Fruii. 

Five pounds fruit, four pounds of sugar, one-third pint of 
vinegar, two tablespoons of cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves. 
Cook one and one-half hours and can for future use. 

Linda F. Hughes. 

Pickled Raisins. 

Boil two pounds of large raisins until tender in vinegar 
enough to cover them. Skim out the raisins and add to the 
vinegar one pound of sugar, cloves and cinnamon to taste. 
Pour the syrup boiling hot over the raisins. Very nice. 

Mrs. Ike Miller. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, four red peppers, four medium sized 
onions, two tablespoons of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, two 
teacups of vinegar, two teaspoons of cinnamon. Peel the 
tomatoes and chop fine, also chop the onions and peppers and 
"boil together one hour. Add vinegar and seasoning a while 
before quite done. Put in fruit cans or bottles with corks tied 
■down. Mrs. Frank Bowen. 



Orchid Flower Perfumes. 

(REGISTERED) 

Recently introduced by the Seely Mfg. Co. have already 

found their way into the homes of the most refined, 

and won from competent judges 

this commendation : 

"I'lie most exquisite perfumes in existerice." 

STANHOPEA. ANGIJLOA. GALEANDRA. 

MILTONIA, VANDA, CALANTHE, 

1 Ounce Bottles, 73c. 2 Ounce Bottles, $1.50. 
SOLD ALSO IN BULK TO THE DRUG TRADE. 



If not to be obtained of your druggist we will 
send postpaid upon receipt of price. 

BVY THE BEST 

Beely's Flai^Dring Extracts 

LEMON, VANILLA, ETC. 



Having stood the test for twenty-seven years they are ac- 
knowledged the standard extracts of America. 

SeeLY MftNUFftCTURING COMPANY. 



PUDDINGS /\ND PUDDING SftUCeS. 

"Her well-appointed table groaned beneath the ample spread, 
Course followed appetizing course, and hunger sated fled." 

Suggestions: Use the Royal, the leading baking powder oi 
the world. 

Use the best and freshest materials, as one bad article will 
taint the whole mixture. 

When the freshness of eggs is doubtful, break each one 
separately in a cup. 

The yolks and whites beaten separately make the articles 
they are put into much lighter than when beaten together. 

Suet Pudding. (Prime). 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one ^gg, one cup of raisins, heaping 
teaspoon of soda, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, a little less 
of cloves, one slice of stale bread, crumbed. Steam three 
hours. Sauce. — One cup of sugar, one cup water, one-hair 
cup butter, one heaping teaspoon flour, one teaspoon vinegar, 
nutmeg or lemon flavoring. Boil slowly a few minutes. 

Mrs. S, Huxford. 

Fig Pudding. 

Two teacups suet chopped fine, two cups sugar, two cups 
chopped figs, two teacups bread crumbs, three teaspoons Royal 
baking powder and three eggs. Wet with milk until the con- 
sistency of fruit cake. Steam three hours. Satue. — One tea- 
cup of butter, two teacups powdered sugar and one ^gg. Stir 
butter, sugar and yolk together ten or fifteen minutes, then 
beat the white and stir in last. Flavor as yow please and set 
in a warm place until wanted. Mrs. Matthew Steel. 



78 PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 

Kiss Pudding. 

One quart boiling milk, yolks of four eggs, three teaspoons 
cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk, boil until done, stir- 
ring constantly. Pour into pudding dish and have read}^ the 
whites of five eggs beaten stiff with one cup of surar, spread 
over the top and put in a cool place. Dora H. Sackett. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 
Two quarts of milk, two-thirds cup corn meal, one cup 
sugar, six eggs, one teaspoon salt, ginger and cinnamon. 
Take one pint of the milk, let it boil then stir in the meal, 
boil it three or four minutes stirring all the time, add the salt, 
ginger and cinnamon then the rest of the milk, lastly add the 
egg well beaten. Bake until custard is done. 

Mrs. E. N. Parsons. 

Plum Pudding, 

One cup of raisins, one cup sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
one cup currants, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoon soda 
and two of cream tartar. Four eggs, two cups chopped suet, 
salt and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 

Miss Frances Staples. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

One grated pineapple and its weight in sugar, half its 
weight in butter, five eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
one cup of cream. Cream the butter and beat it with the 
sugar and yolks very light, add the cream and pineapple and 
the whites of the eggs. Bake in pie plates lined with pastry. 
To be eaten cold. Mrs. Geo. W. Maher. 

Orange Pudding. 

Slice two or three large oranges in a deep pudding dish 
and pour over them one-half cup of sugar and the following 
mixture when cooked. Boil one quart of milk, add the yolks 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDINCx SAUCES. 70 

of three eggs, one cup of sugar and three tablespoons of corn- ■ 
starch wet in cold milk. Whip the whites of three eggs stiff 
and add three tablespoons of sugar and spread over the top. 
Brown slightly in the oven. Serve cold. 

Hattie Hungerford. 

Black Pudding. 

Four eggs, one-half pint of molasses, one-half cup brown 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk 
one cup of flour, one teaspoon soda. Cream the 
butter and sugar and mix in the flour very smoothly, 
add the molasses and soda, beat the yolks and whites 
of the eggs very light and add to the above. Bake in moder- 
ate oven. Sauce. — Two cups of sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
one and one-half cups of boiling water, flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Thicken a very little. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

The following recipes have been tested and found very good. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of sweet cream, one teaspoon lemon extract 
(Seely's), or vanilla if preferred, one cup pulverized sugar, 
white of one egg. Mix the cream, sugar, and flavoring, whip 
without skimming and, lastly, add the well beaten white of one 

Fruif Sauce. 

One cup of fruit juice, one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoon 
of cornstarch or flour, boil five minutes and strain. 

Another Sauce. 

Whites of two eggs beaten until foamy, one cup of boiled 
milk, one cup of sugar, juice of one lemon. Add the sugar 
to the eggs and beat well, then add the boiled milk and lemon 
juice. Do not cook except to boil the milk. This sauce is 
nice for cold pudding. 



So • PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES- 

Sauce for Corn Starch Pudding. 

The whites of two eggs beaten stiff, one large cup of sugar, 
five tablespoons of boiling milk, one teaspoon of cornstarch, one 
tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of nutmeg or mace. Rub 
the butter into the sugar, add the beaten eg^ and work all to 
a creamy froth. Wet the starch with cold milk and put in 
next with the spice. Set in a saucepan of boiling water five 
minutes stirring all the time but do not let it boil. 

Hard Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, beat together 
until light. Flavor with lemon and grate nutmeg over it. 

Another Sauce. 

The juice of one orange, one cup of sugar and one of sweet 
cream beaten until very light. Mrs. Geo. W. Maher. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Two-thirds cup of sugar, butter the size of an o^gg, one 
cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, lemon flavoring, two 
teaspoons of Royal baking powder. Bake and eat with the 
following sauce : One-half cup of sugar, butter the sizi.' of an 
Q-gg, a large spoonful of flour. Mix and turn boiling water 
upon it until it is the desired consistency. 

Mrs. Wm. A. Anderson. 

Another. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, one pint flour, two 
tablespoons melted butter, two teaspoons Royal baking pow- 
per, one &gg, one cup of fruit, cranberries, cherries, straw- 
berries, or any fruit desired. Steam and serve with cream. 

Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Suet Pudding. 

Three-fourths cup of chopped suet, one-half cup of molas- 
ses, one cup sour milk, one heaping teaspoon soda, one cup 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 8 1 

raisins, one egg. Stir stiff with flour and steam two hours 
and serve with any sauce desired. Mrs. Fred GrofF. 

Spiced Graham Pudding. 

One half cup of molasses, one-fourth cup of butter, one egg, 
one-half cup sour milk, one small teaspoon soda, one and one- 
half cups graham flour, one-half cup of chopped raisins. 
Steam three hours and serve with any sauce that may be pre- 
ferred. Spice to taste. Mrs.'Chas. E. Barr. 

Mo/asses Pudding, 

One cup molasses, one cup hot water, two and one-half of 
flour, one egg, one teaspoon soda. Fruit and spice to taste. 
Tart apple cut in little squares is very nice. Steam one hour. 
Sauce for same — One cup water, one cup sugar, one lemon, 
one egg, one teaspoon cornstarch. Boil the water, sugar and 
lemon together, then add cornstarch and yolk of egg, when 
luke-warm add the white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. M. B. Beal. 

Use Royal Baking Powder. Superior to all others in 
strength, leavening power and general usefulness. 

Lemon Sauce (for Puddings). "^^ 

One large cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one 
lemon, all the juice and half the grated rind. One teaspoon 
nutmeg or vanilla and three tablespoons boiling water. Cream 
the butter and sugar and beat in the eggs, whipped light, then 
add lemon and flavoring. Beat hard ten minutes and then 
add a tablespoon at a time of the boiling water. Put the 
sauce in a tin pail and place in the uncovered top of the tea- 
kettle which must be kept boiling U!itil the steam heats the 
sauce very hot, but not boiling. Stir it constantly. 

Mrs. K. E. Goodenow. 

Fig Pudding. 

One-half pound chopped figs, one-half cup suet, one-half 



82 PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 

cup of bread crumbs, one tablespoon sugar, one cup milk and 
three eggs. Steam two and one-half hours. Sauce — One cup 
sugar, one cup boiling water, one egg and one lemon. 

Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Orange Padding. 

Slice five oranges and add one cup of sugar. Boil one quart 
of milk and add two tablespoons cornstarch and the yolks of 
three eggs. Pour this over the oranges and make a frosting 
of the whites of the eggs by adding three tablepoons sugar. 

Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Esi^lle Pudding. 

Three eggs well beaten, two and one-half tablespoons of 
sugar, two of butter, three-quarters cup of sweet milk, one 
cup raisins chopped fine, three teaspoons baking powder, and 
flour enough to make it the consistency of cake batter. Steam 
thirty-five minutes and serve with cold cream sauce made 
by beating together one cup of sugar, one-half cup butter and 
one cup rich cream. Beat the sugar and butter together and 
add the sweet cream, gradually beating until very light. 
Flavor with vanilla or lemon. Place the sauce where it will 
get very cold before serving. Albion Milling Co. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

One cup warm water, one cup of molasses, one large tea- 
spoon soda, one Qggy one cup chopped suet, one cup chopped 
fruit. Stir quite stiff with flour and steam two hours. Sauce 
— Two eggs, large cup sugar, piece of butter size of an ^z%- 
Beat all together, and then stir in two tablespoons boiling 
water. Flavor with vanilla. Mrs. E. E. Goodenow. 

Mountain Dew Pudding. 

One pint of milk, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons 
cocoanut, two cups rolled crackers, one teaspoon lemon extract. 
Bake thirty minutes. Make a frosting of the whites of the 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 83 

eggs and one cup of pulverized sugar. Set in the oven to 
brown after frosting. Hattie Hungerford. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

One- half cup white sugar, one cup sweet milk, two table- 
spoons of butter, one ^gg, beaten very light, two heaping 
teaspoons Royal baking powder. Flour to make a nice batter, 
about as stiff as common cake. Bake in three layer tins. Put 
sweetened berries between the layers. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Almond Pudding. 

Four ounces sweet almonds, one of bitter almonds, blanched 
and pounded to a paste in a mortar. Four ounces of white 
sugar and four ounces of butter stirred together. The whites 
only of six eggs. A wineglass of rose water. Bake in a puflF 
paste slowly one-half hour. Mrs. Geo. W. Maher. 

Cherry Pudding. 

One pint of flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one-half cup sweet milk. Take one spoonful of 
batter in a cup, then one of cherries and another of the batter. 
Steam one-half hour. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Mrs. F. F. Hoaglin. 

Excellent Chocolate Pudding. 

Two cups of bread crumbs, one cup of sugar, one quart of 
milk, three eggs, eight tablespoons of grated chocolate. Boil 
bread and milk until it thickens, after it is cool stir in the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and the white of one with the 
sugar and chocolate. Bake one-half hour or until thoroughly 
done. Beat the two whites with five tablespoons of sugar and 
one-half teaspoon of vanilla until it will stand, then spread 
over the top and let brown. Eat cold with cream. 

Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 



84 PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 

Snow Pudding. 
Pour one pint of boiling water on one-half box of gelatine, 
add the juice of one lemon and two cups of sugar. When 
nearly cold, strain. Add the whites of three eggs beaten to a 
froth, beat the whole together and put in a mould and set on 
ice. Make a boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs, one 
pint of milk, large spoonful of sugar and one large teaspoonful 
of cornstarch. Flavor with extract of orange, lemon, vanilla 
or almond. Serve cold pouring the custard around portions 
of the snow cut in even squares. 

Mrs. Ada Iddings Gale. 

Suei Pudding. 

One cup white sugar, one cup milk, one and one-half cups 
chopped suet, one and one-half cups stoned raisins, one-half 
teaspoon soda. Flour enough to make a firm batter. Steam 
three or four hours. Mrs. W. O' Donoughue. 

Fruii Pudding. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup 
lard, two cups flour, one-half pint milk, one teaspoon soda, 
one cup raisins, one-half cup currants, one-quarter cup citron, 
one-quarter cup almonds, one-half teaspoon cloves and one 
teaspoon cinnamon. Steam two hours. Sauce — One-half cup 
sugar, one-half cup butter, one tablespoon of flour, one Qgg, 
one teaspoon vinegar and one pint boiling water. 

Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Suei Pudding. 
One cup each of sweet milk, New Orleans molasses, fruit 
and suet (chopped fine), one teaspoon soda and three and cne- 
half cups of flour. Steam three hours, 

"^Mrs, Ella H, Brockway. 

Indian Pudding. 

One quart of sweet milk, four eggs, one cup] of Indian 
meal, one-fourth cup of butter, one cup of sugar, raisins one 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 85 

cup, a little salt, scald the milk and stir in the meal while the 
milk is boiling. Then let it stand until nearly cold, and stir 
all together. Bake one and one-half hours. Eat with sweet 
cream. Mrs. Geo. Graves. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Make baking powder biscuit dough, roll out very thin and 
fill with sliced apples, sugar, butter and a very little cinnamon. 
Place them in a dripping pan and put sugar and butter over 
them. Put them so as not to touch each other and pour over 
enough water to nearly cover them. Bake about one-half hour. 

Mrs. W. B. Knickerbocker. 



Geo. W. PeRKINS, 



202 N. SUPERIOR ST. 



Keeps constantly on hand all kinds of 

Wood and Coal, Flour and Feed, 

also a full line of 

llllE, BRKK, HMR, fEMEKT, BAIED HAY, Etc. 



All Gocds Delivered and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
Retail Grocer and Dealer in 

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES, 



FIIEST HIES ft fTEIS III) W EES liPiTED, 

GI?oiGest prdits^ Goi?reGtioi?erdi^ 

Vegetables^ ai?d Odjstel^s. 



EVERYTHING TO PLEASE THE EYE AND TASTE. 



302 Superior and 3 Porter Streets, - Albion, Michigan. 

TEi_iEi=x-3:oiNrE 22. 

City orders promptly delivered. 



PIES 



"Who'll dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pies." 

Suggestions: — Perfectly sweet lard and ice cold water, are 
necessary, a pinch of soda improves the crust. 

Wet a strip of muslin and put around the edge of the pie 
and thereby prevent its boiling over. 

Pie Crust 

Two cups of flour, one-half cup of lard, a pinch of salt and 
just enough ice cold water to mix it. 

Cream Pie. 

Make a rich crust for two pies and bake. While baking 
make the following cream: One cup of white sugar, two eggs, 
two tablespoons of flour, two teaspoons of lemon or vanilla — 
beat all together and then add one pint of milk and cook over 
hot water until it thickens then turn on the crust. When very 
cool frost with the whites of two eggs and one tablespoon of 
pulverized sugar. Mrs. S. Berry. 

Cotnstarch Pie. 
One pint of milk, two tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons 
of cornstarch, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon of butter and a 
little salt. Mrs. S. V. Allen. 

Lemon Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of two lemons, yolks of three 
eggs, about six tablespoons of sugar, one teaspoon of corn- 
starch and one cup of sweet milk. Boil all together until it 



88 PIES. 

thickens. I generally bake my crust first and then put in this 
filling, beat the whites of the eggs for the top and set in the 
oven long enough to brown nicely. Mrs. E. F. Mills. 

Lemon Pie. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, juice of two 
lemons and the grated rind of one, two tablespoons of flour, 
yolks of six eggs and the white of one. This will fill two pies. 
Beat the white of five eggs to a froth and add six tablespoons 
of powdered sugar, put on top of the baked pies and put into 
the oven to brown. Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Taris. 

White of one egg, two tablespoons of sugar, one cup of 
lard, three and one-half tablespoons of water and a pinch of 
salt, flour to roll. Bake quickly. 

Lemon Paste for Tarts. 

To one-fourth pound of butter put one pound of loaf sugar, 
the yolks of six eggs, the yellow rind of three lemons grated 
and their juice. Put it on the stove and let it simmer until 
the sugar is dissolved and begins to thicken like honey. Put 
it in a jar and keep for use. Keep it in a cool place. 

Mrs. A. J. Gale. 

Lemon Pie. 

Carefully grate the yellow rind from two lemons. Grate 
the remainder of the lemons for the pie, one cup of sugar, yolk 
of two eggs, two tablespoonsful of flour, stir all together and 
place on the stove, and pour in a cup of boiling water and add 
a small piece of butter; boil until thick. Line a pie tin with 
flaky pie crust and bake while preparing the filling. When 
both are done pour the lemon custard into the crust and place 
in the oven for a short time. Beat the whites of the two eggs 
with five tablespoonsful of sugar and spread over the top and 
brown. 



PIES. 89 

Orange Pie. 

Make in the same manner as the lemon, using oranges 
instead of lemons. Mrs Helen Thomas. 

The Secret of Mixing Pastry. 

The secret of mixing pastry is, first to have flour, shorten- 
ing, and mixing fluid as cold as possible; second, to put it 
together as lightly as maj^ be; third, to do no kneading — only 
enough gentle pressure to hold the mixture together. When 
made it should be rolled out and baked immediately, or if it 
has to stand, put it in the ice chest, or some other cold place 
until wanted. 

Mince Meat. 

Take a beef's heart, or scraggy neck piece, five or six 
pounds, and boil in water enough to cover. Do not salt until 
the meat is tender. Then remove the cover and let simmer, 
turning often, when cold remove all bone and gristle, chop 
fine. Mince two pounds of beef suet. For this quantity of 
meat prepare four quarts of tart cooking apples, or a safe rule, 
is one quart of meat and two of apples. Put in your kettle 
(Porcelain), one quart of boiled cider. Canned cherries im- 
part a pleasant flavor. One quart of molasses, two ounces of 
cinnamon, one of cloves, one of ginger, also some nutmeg, 
one tablespoon of salt, one teaspoon of pepper, a generous 
lump of butter and two pounds of brown sugar, or more, ac- 
cording to canned fruit and boiled cider used. Four pounds 
seeded raisins, three of currants, citron if desired. Mix thor- 
oughly, then mix again. Better after standing a few days. 
This recipe can be varied to suit all tastes. It is very rich 
and keeps well. Mellie E. Gardner. 

Mock Mince Pie. 
One cup of chopped crackers, one cup of chopped raisins^ 
two cups of water, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, 
one-half cup of vinegai , two tablespoons of butter, spice same 
as mince pie. The above makes four pies. E. J. W. 



■QO PIES. 

Squash Pie. 

Steam the squash until tender, strain through a colander. 
One pint of squash, one pint of milk, three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of ginger, a little grated nutmeg, pinch 
of salt. Bake with one crust. 

Lemon Pie. 

One lemon, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoon of but- 
ter, one tablespoon of flour, two eggs, and one cup of hot 
water. Grate the yellow rind of the lemon, add the hot water 
and place on the stove while preparing the following: Mix 
yolk of two eggs and whites of one with sugar, flour, butter, 
and juice. Stir this in the rind and water. Pour in a crust 
lined plate and bake. When done beat the white of one egg 
with three tablespoons of powdered sugar, spread it over the 
pie and return to the oven to brown. Mrs. G. H. Graves. 

Cracker Pie. 

One cup of water, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of raisins, six crackers, one-half cup of vinegar. 

Cocoanui Pie. 

Grate fresh cocoanut, to one cup of cocoanut add one and 
■one-half cups of sweet milk, the yolks of four eggs, a little 
salt and sweeten to taste, one tablespoon of melted butter. 
Beat the whole, five or six minutes. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stifi" froth pour over the top and brown slightly, be- 
fore taking the pie from the oven. If you use desicated cocoa- 
nut, soak it in milk over night. 

Mrs. Henry Crittenden. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of flour, 
three eggs. Save the whites of two for frosting. Bake crusts, 
place the milk on the stove in a basin set in a pan of water. 
Mix eggs, sugar and flour together, when the milk boils stir 
in the mixture, flavor with lemon. This will make two pies. 



PIES. 91 

Beat the whites with one-half cup of powdered sugar, and 
cover the pies, aud place in the oven to brown. 

Mrs. G. H. Graves. 

Raisin Pie. 

Two cups of raisins, two lemons, two cups of white sugar, 
three tablespoons of flour, one large cup of boiling water and a 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Grate off the out-side of 
the lemons, then peal off" the rind, chop the remainder with 
raisins, then add the sugar, eggs, flour and the hot water. 
This makes two large pies. Mrs. Will Davis. 

Elderberry Pie. 

One pint of elderberries, |two-thirds cup of sugar, two table- 
spoons of strong vinegar. This will make one pie with two 
crusts. M. Eloise Merritt. 

Lemon Pie. 

One large or two small lemons, grate the rind and squeeze 
the juice, add j'olk of four eggs and one teacup of sugar, 
three heaping tablespoons sifted flour. Stir and mash out all 
the lumps and then add one cup of cold water. Dissolve well 
before putting in the crust. Mrs. W. B. Knickerbocker. 

Summer Mince Pie. 

Four Boston crackers broken up fine, one and one-half cups 
of sugar, one cup of molasses, one of boiled cider, one cup 
water, two-thirds cup of butter, one cup chopped raisins, two 
eggs beaten and stirred in last and spice to taste. Vinegar 
can be used i.: place of cider. Mrs. Josephine Clark. 



CREAMS AMD CUSTARDS. 

"I always thought cold vituals nice, 
My choice would l)e a lemon ice." 

Lemon Ice. 

One pound of white sugar, juice of three or four lemons, 
one quart of water. Pare the rinds and pour part of the water 
on them hot and allow them to stand long enough to extract 
the flavor. Add this to the rest of the water, sugar and juice 
of the lemons. The whites of two eggs should be added just 
before freezing, having been slightly beaten. 

Mrs. W. B. Knickerbocker. 

Italian Cream. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk sweetened very sweet 
and highly flavored with vanilla. Whip and remove the froth 
as it rises until all is converted into froth. Have ready one 
box of Cox's Gelatine dissolved in a little water. Stir thor- 
oughly into the frothed cream and set in cool place in winter 
or on ice in summer to cool and stir constantly until it begins 
to stiffen and then pour into your moulds, the moulds having 
been dipped in cold water. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Russian Cream. 

One-half package of gelatine, one quart of milk and water, 
half and half, one cup of sugar, four eggs. Dissolve the gel- 
atine in the milk and water, add sugar and the yolks of eggs 
and cook in a basin over a sauce pan of water. After this is 
cooked add the whites of the eggs and mould in an oblong 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 93 

bread tin on the ice. Cut in slices and serve with whipped 
cream flavored with vanilla and powdered sugar. 

Mrs. R. C. Welsh. 

Substitute for Cream. 

Beat well the whites of two eggs and straining them into a 
pint of new milk, add a little sugar and place it over the fire 
stirring carefully in one direction until the consistency of 
cream. This can be used for tea, coffee or fruit. 

Mis. A. J. Gale. 

Ice Cream. 

One pint of thick sweet cream whipped, three pints of rich 
milk. Mix together, sweeten and flavor to the taste and 
freeze. In strawberry time it is nice to take one quart of 
berries and rub through a colandar, add juice with the above 
and freeze. Mrs. H. W. Mosher, 

Spanish Cream. 

One quart of sweet milk, one-half box of Cox's Gelatine, 
four tablespoons of sugar, three eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately. Put the milk and gelatine in a double boiler and 
when it reaches boiling point add the sugar and yolks of the 
eggs stirring quickly to prevent curdling. Remove from the 
fire and when a little cooled beat in the whites of the eggs. 
Flavor with Seely's vanilla extract. Dip the moulds in cold 
water, and fill. Set on ice or in a cold place to harden. When 
ready to serve sweeten and flavor sweet cream, whip very light 
and pour over the top. Mrs. Matt. Steel. 

Orange a la Surprise. 
Take fine oranges and cut them around the middle with a 
•sharp knife, take out all the pulp clean with a teaspoon, tak- 
ing care not to tear the skins. Throw the empty skins into 
'cold water until you are ready to use them. Make a nice jelly of 
the pulp which you have taken out, and also sweeten and 



94 CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

flavor sweet cream and whip very light. Take the skins from 
the water and wipe dry, then fill half the empty skins with 
jelly and half with whipped cream. Set them on wine glasses 
or cups and put away in a very cold place or on ice to harden. 
The jelly can be left the color of the orange or colored a beau- 
tiful red with Cochineal syrup, which is a very pleasing con- 
trast with the white cream. Serve either alternately, jelly and 
cream, on a platter or place together and tie with a ribbon, 
colored ribbons. The surprise is pleasant when the ribbons 
are untied. This is a very effective dish and easily prepared. 

Mrs. Geo. Maher. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One pint of sweet cream, whites of eight eggs, one teacup 
of pulverized sugar, three tablespoons of gelatine and three 
teaspoons of vanilla. Place lady fingers around the mould. 

Mrs. Dr. Parmeter. 

Whipped Cream. 

Place one-half box of Cox's Gelatine on the stove in a little 
water, when dissolved beat it into the well beaten whites of 
three eggs, whip one quart of cream and add. Sweeten and 
flavor to taste. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Two lemons, one and one-half cup of sugar, three cups of 
water, whites of two eggs. Grate the rinds and squeeze the 
juice of the lemons. Make a boiling syrup of the sugar and 
half the water and pour it while hot on the lemons and let 
stand till cold. Then add the rest of the water, strain and 
freeze. When nearly frozen add well beaten whites of eggs 
and finish freezing. Jennie A. Worthington. 

Orange Sherbet. 
Three oranges, three cups of water, one large cup of sugar, the 
juice of one lemon and the whites of two eggs. Proceed as 
for lemon sherbet. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 95 

Pineapple bherbei. 

One can of pineapple, one cup of sugar, two cups of water, 
and the whites of two eggs. Make a boiling syrup of the 
sugar, juice and half of the water. Chop the fruit and let it 
simmer in a little of the juice until soft, then mash through a 
strainer and proceed as for lemon sherbet. 

Jennie A. Worthington. 

Tapioca Cream. 
One quart of sweet milk, three tablespoons of Tapioca, one 
teacup of coffee sugar, three eggs and a pinch of salt. Put 
the Tapioca in a bowl and cover it with cold water to soak 
over night. Put the milk in a pail, and place it in a kettle of 
hot water, and let it come to boiling heat, then beat the yolks 
of the eggs with the sugar, add the Tapioca and stir alto- 
gether in the milk until it thickens. Pour into your pudding 
dish, and flavor to suit the taste with vanilla. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth, add a little powdered sugar, spread over 
the top of pudding and set it in the oven a very few moments 
to brown lightly. To be eaten cold. Do not use the Pearl 
Tapioca but the coarse. Mrs. Ira Reed. 

Whipped Cream. 

One quart of sweet cream, the white of one egg and a little 
gelatine. Stand on ice after whipping. 

Mrs. Chas. Knickerbocker. 



JELLY 



" But still my charming hostess urged, ' Do have some jelly, dear, it is so del- 
icate and sweet, at this time of the year.' " 

Suggestions: — Take great care in selecting fruit for jelly as 
if it is over ripe it will never make good jelly. 

Alway make your jelly in a granite ware or porcelain lined 
kettle. 

When your jelly is cool, a little melted paraflfine poured 
over the top will prevent mould from forming. 

In putting papers Over the top of jelly glasses fasten them 
on with little rubber bands instead of paste. It is much easier. 

Prick the top of the papers in several places wnth a pin. 

Keep jelly in a dry but cool place. 

Currant Jelly. 

Place the currants over the fire in a porcelain kettle, hav- 
ing first crushed them slightly to draw out enough juice to 
keep them from burning. As soon as cooked soft strain 
through a fine crash bag until all the juice is extracted, then 
.strain slowly through a flannel bag. Measure the juice and 
put in a clean kettle. For each pound of juice allow one 
pound of granulated sugar. Put the sugar in a stone crock 
large enough to hold the juice. Let the juice boil hard for 
five minutes, then pour it over the sugar in the jar stirring 
until the sugar is dissolved. Dip it immediately into the tum- 
blers. It will often be solid jelly before it is cold. Made in 
this way the jelly will be firm and solid but yet so tender that 
it will fall apart in clear, glowing, ruby colored pieces at the 



JKLLY. 97 

touch of a spoon. It will also keep well, being as good the 
second or third year as the first. Mrs. S. V. Irwin. 

Fruit Salad. 

Three bananas, six oranges, one can of pineapple, one-half 
box of Cox's Gelatine, one cup of sugar. Dissolve the gela- 
tine, put the juices of the fruit in and let it come to a boil, then 
strain it. Cut the fruit in small pieces and add to the rest just 
before putting in the moulds. Put on ice until hard. Good. 

Mrs. Rose A. Fox. 

Fruit Salad. 

Three bananas and three oranges, one can pineapple, one- 
half box of gelatine, one teacup of sugar. Dissolve the gela- 
tine and put the juices of the fruit in and let it come to a boil. 
Cut the fruit in small pieces and add to the rest just before 
putting into the mould. The juices should be strained before 
being used. Mrs. Frank Alsdorf. 

Lemon Jelly. 

One-half box Cox's Gelatine, one half pint of cold water 
poured on the gelatine to dissolve it, one-half pint of boiling 
water, two teacups of sugar, juice of three lemons. Pour in 
a mould and put away to cool. It should be prepared the day 
before using. Mrs. W. E. Parsons. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Take one and one-fourth ounces of Cooper's gelatine and 
one-half pint of cold water, let stand for an hour or two to 
soak, then add fourteen ounces granulated sugar, one and one- 
half pints boiling water, stir until all is thoroughly dissolved, 
then add two drachms Citric Acid dissolved in a little hot 
water, and flavor slightly with Seely's L^mon Extract, about 
one teaspoonful. Mrs. W. H. Brock way. 

A Beautiful Jelly. 
One-half box of Cox's Gelatine, pour over it one pint of 



98 JELLY. 

red raspberry juice, let stand one hour, then heat slowly until 
thoroughly dissolved. Squeeze in the juice of one lemon and 
add one pint of granulated sugar. Let simmer for a short time 
and then strain through a flannel bag into a pan and put on 
ice. When it begins to set, wet your mould with cold water 
and having previously blanched one pound of almonds and 
sliced them lengthwise, putfirst a layer of jelly into the mould, 
then stick the almonds in thick, standing each piece up. then 
add another layer of jelly, then the almonds until the mould 
is full. Put on ice. When ready to serve, turn on a pretty 
dish and surround it with whipped cream, flavored with vanilla 
and sweetened to taste. Mrs. Flora Gale. 

The Best Way to Make Jelly. 

Boil the juice of the fruit five minutes, add the sugar and 
when thoroughly dissolved take from the fire and fill your 
cups or glasses. Mrs. O'Donoughue. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Pour a small half teacup of cold water on one-half box of 
Cox's gelatine and let stand fifteen minutes, then add one-half 
pint of boiling water, a cup of sugar, one-half cup of lemon 
juice and a small wine glass of fresh strawberry juice. Strain 
into a mould, which first rinse in cold water. Keep on ice. 

Dora H. Sackett. 

Grape Jelly. 

If obliged to use fully ripe grapes for jelly, use only the 
pulp. Your jelly will be a beautiful color and contain no 
grape sugar crystals. Mrs. H. M. Brown. 

Fruit Salad {Excellent). 

The juice of three oranges and two lemons. Squeeze juice 
and strain it. One package of gelatine soaked in cold water 
over night, one cup of pulverized sugar. Let stand on ice 
until it hardens. Heap up fruit of any kind you wish, berries, 



JELI.Y. 99 

oranges, or any fruit, in center of dish and throw the salad 
over it and then let it stand on ice until ready for use. Do not 
cook gelatine. (Tested and tried.) 

Mrs. Chas. Knickerbocker. 
From Mrs. Knight's Cooking School, Bay View. 




The United States Official 
Investigation 

Of Baking Powders, recently made, under authority of 
Congress, by the Department of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. C, furnishes the highest authoritative informa- 
tion as to which powder is the best. The Official Report 

Shows the ROYAL to be a 
cream of tartar baking pow- 
der, superior to all others in 
strength and leavening pow^er. 

The Royal Baking Powder is absolutely pure, made 
from the most wholesome materials, and produces finer 
flavored, sweeter, lighter, more wholesome and delicious 
bread, biscuit, cake, pastry, etc., than an)- other baking 
powder or leavening agent. 

Food raised by it will keep sweet, moist, iresh and 
palatable longer than when raised by yeast or other 
baking powders. 

Being of greater strength than any other baking 
powder, it is also the most economical in use. 

These great qualities warrant you, if you are not 
using the Royal Baking Powder, in making a trial of it. 



CAKES. 

"With weights and measures just and true, 

Oven of even heat, 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerve. 

Success will be complete." 

Suggestions. — Always use the best materials. 

Sift your sugar and flour before measuring. 

Use the Hunter Sifter. 

Use Royal Baking Powder. 

Use Seely's Flavoring Extract. 

Use Albion Milling Go's. Flour. 

Pour boiling water over raisins, then drain it off" and you 
will find it quite easy to seed them. 

To keep raisins from going to the bottom of a cake, have 
them dry and thoroughly dredged with flour before being added 
to the batter, which should be done just before putting in the 
tins. 

To blanch almonds, shell them, pour boiling water over 
them and allow to stand a moment, then drain off" and throw 
into cold water, when the brown skins can easily be removed. 

For nice cake, cream the butter before adding the sugar, 
mix in the sugar gradually and cream both together thor- 
oughly. 

In cold weather dip your mixing bowl in hot water before 
commencing to cream your butter and sugar. 

Eggs will beat light quicker if very cold. 

Always beat the yolks of eggs to a cream and the whites to 
a stiff" froth for cakes, cookies or friedcakes. 

If your oven proves too hot, set in a large basin of cold 
water. 



I02 CAKES. 

Remember that anything that is worth doing at all is worth 
doing well. 

Angel Food. 

• Whites of eleven large eggs, one and one-half coffeecups 
pulverized sugar, one coffeecup of flour, one teaspoon of cream 
of tartar and a pinch of salt. One teaspoon of Seely's van- 
illa extract. Sift the flour and sugar before measuring. 
Measure and add the cream of tartar and salt. Sift all together 
six times. Beat the whites of the eggs verylieht and add gently 
to the other ingredients without beating. Bake in a tube tin 
without greasing in a moderate oven. When done turn bottom 
up on cups to cool. Ice as soon as cool. Make a day or two 
before wanted. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Use Royal Baking Powder. The leading baking powder 
of the world. 

Whiie Pound Cake. 

One cup of granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, stir ten 
minutes. Six table spoons sweet milk, one and one-half cups 
flour, two small teaspoons baking powder. Whites of four 
eggs well beaten. Stir ten minutes after the eggs are added. 

Mrs. H. W. Mosher. 

Bread Cake. 

Two cups each of raised dough and white sugar, one cup 
butter, three eggs, one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water, 
two tablespoons sweet milk, one-half pound Zante currants well 
washed and dredged with flour. One cnp raisins, tea.spoonful 
each nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon. Let raise twenty minutes 
and bake .slowly. Mrs. Ella Brockway. 

Bride's Loaf. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three cups flour, one-half 
cup milk, whites of six eggs, three teaspoons baking powder 
and flavor to taste. Mrs. E. E. Goodenow. 



CAKES. 103 

White Sponge Cake. 

Place a sieve over an earthen dish and measure into it one 
cup of pulverized sugar, one-half cup flour, one-half cup corn- 
starch, one teaspoon baking powder. Sift them five or six 
times, then add the whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth, 
flavor with one teaspoonful each of lemon and vanilla. 

Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Gold Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups sugar, two 
and one- half cups flour, two-thirds cup milk, two tea.spoons 
baking powder, yolks of six eggs and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Silver Cake. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half sugar, two of flour, 
two-thirds of sweet milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
whites of six eggs, one teaspoon of lemon, frost with white 
frosting. Mrs, Leonard. 

English Walnut. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs beaten light, 
three cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one cup chop- 
ped walnut meats. Frosting — Boil one and one-half cups 
sugar with water enough to cover, until it hairs, then pour 
slowly into the beaten whites of two eggs and flavor to taste. 
Spread on the cake and cut in squares with half a walnut on 
each square. Helen Davis. 

Rosy Morn. 

Made the same as angel cake and colored a beautiful pink 
with cochineal syrup, which you can procure at your drug- 
gists. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Take the whites of eleven eggs and the yolks of six, one 
and one-half coflFeecups pulverized sugar, measured after sift- 



I04 CAKES. 

ing. One coifee cup of flour measured after sifting, one tea- 
spoon of cream of tarter, one teaspoon of orange extract. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth and gradually beat in the sugar. 
Beat the yolks in a similar manner and add them to the whites 
and sugar, also the flavoring. Sift the cream of tartar with the 
flour, add gently to the eggs and sugar. Bake in a moderate 
oven, u-ing a pan like that for angels' food. 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Raised Caka. 

One cup of risen dough, one cup of granulated sugar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, two eggs, one tablespoon cream, one-half 
cup butter, one cup of raisins chopped or stoned and a little 
nutmeg. If convenient, let it rise, if not, bake immediately. 

Mrs. W. O'Donoughue. 

White Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, whites of six eggs well beaten. Flavor 
with pineapple. One and one-half teaspoons baking powder 
sifted with one and one-half cups of flour and one-half cup of 
cornstarch. Mrs. D. H. Goodenow. 

App/e Cake. 

Two cups molasses, two cups dried apples soaked in water 
over night, chop fine and stew one hour in the molasses. One- 
half cup of butter, three eggs, three cups sifted flour, one tea- 
spoon of soda, one-half cup sugar, one cup raisins, one cup 
other kind of fruit and spices to taste. 

Miss Frances Staples.- 

Cornstarch 

One cup of sugar, one-third cup butter, one and one- fourth 
cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup cornstarch, 
two teaspoons baking powder, whites of three eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth and flavor to taste. Mrs. Keller. 



CAKES. 105 

White Cake. 

One cup granulated sugar, one-third cup butter, whites of 
three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, one and one-half 
cups flour and flavoring. Mrs. O'Donoughue. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup cold strong coffee, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, 
one cup butter, or drippings, one cup chopped raisings, one 
teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg. Five cups flour. Mrs. Leonard. 

Sponge Cake. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one cup of 
pulverized sugar, one cup flour, with one teaspoon baking 
powder sifted with it. Flavoring to taste and lastl)^ a scant 
half cup boiling water stirred in. Bake slowly and frost while 
warm. Checked in squares with half an English walnut on 
each square, you have a very pretty cake lor a basket. 

Mrs. L. D. Crane. 

Snow Flake 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet rail k, 
whites of five eggs, three cups flour, two and one-half tea - 
spoons Royal Baking Powder. Use almond or rose flavoring. 
Bake in quick oven. Mrs. W. A. Anderson. 

Yellow Cake. 

Two-thirds cup granulated sugar, two-thirds cup of flour, 
one-third cup milk or cream, one-third cup cornstarch, one- 
half cup butter, one teaspoon baking powder, two eggs, or the 
yolks of four, one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in patty tins. 

Mrs. W. O'Donoughue. 

One Egg. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one egg, two tablespoons butter. 
Flavoring. Mrs. Leonard, 



I06 CAKES. 

Beautiful Small Whiie 

One cup pulverized sugar, scant half-cup butter, whites of 
three eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, one cup flour, one-half cup 
of cornstarch, three even teaspoons baking powder and one tea- 
spoon each of lemon and vanilla. Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Loaf Cocoanut 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound flour, 
one cup milk, whites of twelve eggs, one coffee cup grated 
cocoanut and two heaping teaspoons baking powder. Make 
the flour good measure. Mrs. Matthew Steel. 

5/701* Cake. 

One-half teacup butter, one and one-half cups flour, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs and one 
heaping teaspoon baking powder sifted with the flour. Flavor 
to taste with lemon or vanilla. This receipt never fails and is 
very good. Mrs. Rose A. Fox. 

White Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, two-thirds cup milk, 
two cups flour, two even teaspoons baking powder and the 
whites of two eggs. Mrs. Knappen. 

Black Cake. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound brown sugar, one- 
half pound flour, six eggs, one and one-half pounds raisins, 
the same of currants and one-half pound citron, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one-half teaspoon each of mace, cinnamon, cloves 
and allspice, one teaspoon nutmeg, one cup molasses. This 
cake is very nice. Mrs. Berry. 

Frosting Without Eggs. 

Two tablespoons of water, stir in pulverized sugar a little 
at a time until quite thick and flavor to taste. When desired 
for icing it should be made thinner and beaten until perfectly 



CAKES. 107 

smooth. The same rule is good with less water and the white 
of one egg, not beaten except with the sugar. 

Mrs. Albert Davis. 

IVhife Cake. 
One cup sugar, two tablespoons melted butter, one cup 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder and the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Keller. 

Chocolaie Marget 

One-half cup butter creamed, one and one-half cups s'.igar, 
one and three-fourths flour, one-half cup sweet milk, three 
eggs well beaten, one-fourth pound bakers' Chocolate grated, 
one teaspoon cream of tarter mixed in flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda in the milk. Cream the butter and the sugar, add five 
teaspoons of sugar to the grated chocolate and three of boiling 
water and stir until smooth and glossy, add this to the butter 
and sugar, then add the eggs, then the flour and milk alternate- 
ly. Mix thoroughly and bake in layers or in one solid cake. 

Mrs. F. D. Roudenbush. 

Good Yeast Fruit 

One cup of sponge, one of flour, one of sugar, one-third 
cup of butter, one egg, one-half teaspoon soda, fruit. Let it 
^et very light and bake slowly. Mrs. S. Huxford. 

White Calce. 

White of five eggs, two cups of sugar, one half cup melted 
butter, one cup sweet milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder. Can all be used for any kind of layer cake, 

Mrs. W. R. Rodenbach. 

Hickory Nut. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, two cups butter, 
scant, three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, three cups 
flour, one cup of hickory nut meats. Frosting:— One or two 



I08 CAKES. 

eggs according to size of cake, a teacup of sugar to one egg, 
chop hickory nut meats very fine, mix well with frosting and 
spread on cake. Mrs. Dr. Bruce. 

Angel Food. 

One and one-half tumblers of fime sugar, one tumbler of 
flour, two teaspoons of cream of tarter. Sift these together 
five times. Whites of nine eggs beaten stiff, add to flour and 
sugar and stir just enough to mix well, bake in a moderate 
oven. When done take out and turn bottom upwards over 
cups and let cool. Do not remove from the tin until perfectly 
cool. Dora H. Sackett. 

Angels' Food. 

Put into a cup two teaspoons of cornstarch, fill up with 
flour, add one cup pulverized sugar and one teaspoon baking 
powder. Sift these together five times and stir very lightly 
into the well beaten whites of eight eggs. Add a little vanilla 
and bake very slowly. Mrs. R. J. Frost. 

Feather Cake. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one heaping teaspoon butter, one- 
half cup milk, one heaping teaspoon baking powder, one and 
one-half cups of flour and a little flavoring. Bake iti a shallow 
pan. Mrs. Prof. Taylor. 

Delicate Cake. 

Three level cups sifted flour, two cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one cup milk or water, three level teaspoons of baking 
powder and whites of four eggs. Beat butter and sugar to- 
gether, add milk and flour, and then the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Sift flour and baking powder several 
times. Miss Staples. 

Hot Watep Sponge. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, two teaspoons 



CAKES. 109 

baking powder mixed with flour, and one-half cup boiling 
water put in last. Miss Staples. 

Hickory Nut. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, three cups flour, three small teaspoons baking 
powder and one coffee cup hickory nut meats dredged with 
flour. Mrs. Matthew Steel. 

Imperial Fruit. 

One-half pint of dark brown sugar, one-half pint of molas- 
ses, one-quarter pint butter, one pint flour, eight eggs, one 
heaping tablespoon soda, one cup sour cream, two pounds 
rasins, two pounds Zante currants, one pound citron, one pound 
candied orange, one pound figs, one pound almonds blanched 
and sliced, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice 
and one nutmeg. This cake will keep a year. 

Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Chocolate Cake. 
One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, three eggs — to this add this mixture : Ten 
tablespoons grated chocolate, three tablespoons sugar, two 
tablespoons boiling milk, add to all one and three-fourths cups 
(even) flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Frost 
with white and w^hen partly cool put on a thin frosting of 
chocolate. Cut in squares. Mrs. Matthew Steele. 

Black Chocolate. 
Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk, two eggs, two cups flour, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, flavor with vanilla. Dissolve 
two squares of chocolate in one-half cup of boiling water, let 
it cool, then stir in before adding milk, flour, and eggs. 

Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Bread Cake. 

One cup of bread dough, two eggs, two-thirds cup of but- 



no , CAKES. 

ter, one and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of sour milk, 
one-half teaspoon of soda, one and one-half cups of flour. Spices 
of all kinds and a cup of fruit. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon 
on top when ready to bake. Mrs. W. R. Rodenbach. 

Molasses Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one-third cup of butter, one egg, one- 
third cup of hot water, one teaspoon of ginger, one teaspoon 
of soda, flour to make a thin batter. Mrs. J. H. Ott. 

Cornstarch, 

Two cups of powdered sugar, one cup of butter, three- 
fourths cup of sweet milk, whites of six eggs, three- fourths cup 
of cornstarch, two full cups of flour, three teaspoons of Royal 
baking powder. Flavor with lemon. Very nice. 

Mrs. Geo. Graves. 

Lady Fingers. 

Three ounces of butter, beaten until soft, four ounces of 
sugar, and three yolks of eggs. To this mixture add six 
ounces of flour. The whites of the eggs are beaten to a stiff" 
froth in a cool place add all, together and after they are in the 
tins sprinkle a little sugar on the top of them and bake in a 
quick oven. E. J. W. 

Yellow Ladies'. 

One cup of sugar, one and three-fourths cups of flour, one- 
half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, yolks of four eggs, cream the butter and 
sugar, then add the well beaten yolks, then the milk and flour. 
Flavoring. 

Spice Cake. 

Three-fourths cup of brown sugar, one-fourth cup of 
molasses, one cup of sour milk, one-half cup of butter, one 



CAKES. Ill 

full pint of flour, one cup of raisins, two teaspoons of soda, 
spice to taste. Mrs. C. B. Schefiler. 

White Perfection. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
three cups of flour, one cup of cornstarch, whites of twelve 
eggs beaten 'o a stiff froth, three teaspoons of baking powder 
in the flour, dissolve the cornstarch in the milk, and add it to 
the sugar and butter well beaten together, then the flour and 
whites of eggs. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
strong cofiee, two-thirds cup of butter, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda, four cups of flour, one cup of raisins. Cloves, and cin- 
namon. Mrs. C. B. Schefiler. 

Ora's Wfiite. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, yolk of one 
egg, one cup of water, three cups of flour, and the whites of 
five eggs. Mix in the order given here. 

Orianna Crittenden. 

Fruit Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup of 
shortening, two eggs, reserving one white for the frosting, two- 
thirds cup of milk, one teaspoon of soda, one cupful of raisins, 
currants and citron. Cinnamon, allspice and cloves according 
to taste, one and one-half cups of flour. 

Mrs. Frank Bo wen. 

Delicate Cake. 

Two coffee cups of sugar, one of butter, one of cold water, 
three and one-half of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, 
whites of four eggs. Directions for putting together: Beat 



112 CAKES. 



the butter to a cream, add sugar and stir well together, add 
the whites of the eggs, not beaten, and beat well, add cold 
water, then flour and baking powder. Follow directions about 
putting together. Mrs. Geo. Roland. 



FKOSTINGS. 

Lemon juice will whiten frosting. Cranberry or strawberry 
will color it pink. The grated rind of an orange strained 
through a cloth will color it yellow. 

Pink Coloring for Frosting or Cake. 
One drachm of soda, one drachm cream tartar, one- 
half drachm of alum, one-half drachm of cochineal. Powder 
well together and add water to make it a liquid. To color a 
part of a cake, use about a teaspoonful of the liquid. 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Icing Without Eggs. 

Cne cup of confectioners' sugar, one-half teaspoon of flavor- 
ing, just enough milk to make it right for spreading. 

Mrs. Prof. Fall. 

Caramel Frosting. 

One heaping coffee cup of light brown sugar, butter the 
size of a small egg, three tablespoons of milk, cook until 
stringy, stirring continually to keep from burning. Bea't the 
white of one ^gg not very stiff and pour the mixture into the 
^gg, stirring until cold. When nearly ready for the cake, beat 
in one teaspoon of cornstarch with your &gg beater. 

Mrs. H. M. Brown. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

One cup of brown sugar wet with two teaspoons of sweet 
milk, place the wet sugar in a dish of hot water and allow to 



114 FROSTINGS. 

boil. Then take two tablespoons of grated Baker Chocolate, 
dissolve with just a little milk and flavor with vanilla. Add 
to this the melted sugar and butter the size of a hickory nut, 
just before taking off. When partly cooled spread on the cake. 

Mrs. Prof. Dickie. 



LAYER CAKES. 

Caramel Cake. 

White of one Qgg, one cup sugar, three tablespoons melted 
butter, stir all together, add two-thirds cup milk, one and one- 
half cups flour, heaping spoon baking powder. Bake in three 
layers. 

Caramel Filling. 

Brown a piece of butter size of a walnut, add one cup brown 
sugar, four tablespoons sweet cream. Boil until it hairs, 
spread on top and between layers. Hattie Hungerford. 

Brown Stone Front Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, scant one-half cup butter, two eggs, 
one cup sour milk, three cups flour. Teaspoon each cinnamon, 
cloves, ginger and soda. Filling : — Cup sugar, three table- 
spoons water, boil five minutes, add whites of two eggs, cup of 
raisins chopped to a pumice. Mrs. J. C. Floyd. 

White Layer Cake. 

One-half cup butter scant, one and one-half cups sugar, 
whites of four eggs, eight large spoonfuls of milk, one-half 
teaspoonful of baking powder, two cups of flour. 

Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Cream Puffs . 

Boil in half pint of water three-fourths cup butter, stir in 

while boiling one and three-fourths cups flour, take from the 

fire and stir in gradually five eggs, one at a time, not beating 

them. Drop on pans half the size you wish them when baked, 



Il6 LAYER CAKE.S. 

bake in quick loven thirty minutes. Do not open oven door 
until they are done. Filling for puflFs : — Boil one pint milk, 
beat together three eggs, one-cup sugar, one-fourth cup flour, 
and stir this into the boiling milk. Flavor with vanilla when 
cool. Mrs. E. E. Goodenow. 

Cream Cake. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
flour, three eggs, one-half cup milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Cream one-half cup milk, one tablespoon cornstarch, 
two tablespoons sugar. Flavor. Mrs. J. C. Floyd. 

Sponge Cake. (Splendid). 

Four eggs beaten until very light, two cups pulverized 
sugar, beat again —do not forget salt. Two cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, lastly add two thirds cup boiling 
water and flavoring. Bake in four layers and use any filling 
you desire. A nice orange filling is made of one egg and one 
yolk, one cup sugar, one orange, two teaspoons flour, two- 
thirds cup boiling water. Mrs. W. A. Anderson. 

Filling for Layer Cake. 

One coffee cup hickory nut meats chopped fine, one coifee 
cup white sugar, one coffee cup cream, or milk, or both mixed. 
Boil all together until thick enor.gh to spread. 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Chocolate Filling. 
One cup sugar, three tablespoons sweet mMk, butter size of 
walnut, two tablespoons grated chocolate. Cook until it runs 
from a spoon like a thread. Mrs. Leonard. 

Jennie Lind Cake. 
Dark part— one cup butter, four eggs, one cup sugar, one 
cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, cinnamon, 
cloves, allspice to suit the taste, two pounds raisins, two tea- 
spoons Royal baking powder and lemon extract. Light part — 



LAYER CAKES. II7 

whites of six eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, one of cornstarch, two teaspoons 
baking powder, flavoring. This receipt will make two large 
cakes. Put the light and the dark together alternately. Each 
part will make four layers. I use frosting between. This is 
a very nice cake, and especially fine for Christmas. 

Mrs. W. A. Anderson. 

Dolly Varden Cake. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, one-half cup cornstarch, one cup flour and 
two teaspoons Royal baking powder. Bake one layer white, 
then add a little cochineal and make one pink layer. Make a 
cake of the yellows and add spice to darken and bake one dark 
layer. Put the cakes together with fig paste. 

Mrs. Matthew Steel. 

Almond Cream Cake. 

Bake angel food in two layers the day before wanted, 
make a filling of sweet cream, sweetened to taste, and flavor 
with vanilla, whip light and thicken with almonds, blanched 
and chopped fine. Flavor frosting with a few drops of bit- 
ter almond. Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Jelly Roll. 

One cofFeecup flour, one of sugar, three eggs, two teaspoons 
of baking powder, two large spoons of cream, if sour, use a 
little soda. Bake fifteen minutes. Mrs. S. Huxford. 

Sponge Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, three eggs, two cups flour, 
one-half cup cold water, one tablespoon of baking powder. 
Bake in two layers. Make frosting to put between layers and 
slice one orange and put in. Frost the top. In making the 
cake beat the eggs three minutes, then add the sugar, then the 
water and then the flour. Miss Mary J. Millard. 



I l8 LAYER CAKES. 

Orange Oake. 

Take two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, stir to a 
cream, one- half cup of cold water, two cups of flour, j^olks of 
five eggs and whites of four beaten separate!)', and three tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Bake in three layers. Orange fill- 
ing — The juice and a very little of the grated rind of one 
orange, half a cup of boiling water, one-half cup of sugar and 
one egg beaten together. Add one teaspoon of cornstarch 
dissolved in a little cold water. Set on the stove and boil un- 
til about as thick as jelly. Put between the cakes. Lemon 
jelly for cakes may be made in the same way. 

Mrs. Horace Ball. 

Banana Cake. 

"Whites of six eggs beaten very stiff, one-half cup of but- 
ter stirred to a cream, one cup pulverized sugar, one-half cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. 
Flavor with pineapple, or to suit the taste. Bake in a deep 
round tin. Take one-half cup of pulverized sugar, one cup 
sweet cream whipped, stirred together with pinch of salt. 
Spread over the cake. Cut banana in thin slices and lay thick- 
ly on the cream. 

Almond Cake. 

Make cake same as the above. Prepare the cream in the 
same manner, but instead of the banana, chop one cup of 
blanched almonds very fine and stir into the cream and spread 
over the cake. Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Caramel Filling. 

Two cups of sugar, three-quarters cup of milk. Boil until 
it begins to thicken. Add a piece of butter the size of a hick- 
ory nut. Remove frcm fire, stirring until partiall}' cool, then 
spread between the layers of cake. Do not let it get too cool 
or it will not spread easily. Mrs. R. J. Frost. 



LAYER CAKES. IIQ 

Calico Cake. 
One-halt" cup of butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups sugar, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder and the whites of six eggs. Dark part: — One and 
one-half cups, brown sugar, scant one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder 
and the yolks of six eggs. Spice to taste. Bake in layers and 
put raisins, figs or frosting between them. 

Miss Frances Staples. 

Simple White Cake. 

This is to be used as a layer cake or otherwise if preferred. 
One-half cup of butter (scant), one and one-half cups sugar, 
one cup milk, two and three-quarters cups sifted flour, whites 
of three eggs and three even teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. Prof. Taylor. 

Filling for Orange Cake. 

One orange grated, white of one egg, one cup of sugar. 
Beat the egg very stiff, stir in the sugar and orange and 
spread between the layers and on top of any layer cake. The 
yolk may be used instead of the white. 

Mrs. Helen M. Thomas. 

Best White Layer Cake. 

Three small cups pulverized sugar, one cup of butter, one 
of sweet milk, two cups flour, one of corn starch, whites of 
twelve eggs and three full teaspoons baking powder. Put in 
the eggs last, stir gently and flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Cream Cake. 

Onecup sugar, scant one-half cup butter, whites of two eggs, 
scant two cups flour, one cup milk, two heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, vanilla to taste. Filling — One pint of cream 
whipped until it .stands stiff" on egg beater, three tablespoons 



I20 LAYER CAKES. 

pulverized sugar, vanilla. Let cake get perfectly cold, then 
place between layers and on top. Mrs. John Miller. 

Layer Cake. 

One cup sugar, one heaping tablespoon butter, three yolks 
of eggs, one whole Q^gg, one-half cup milk, one cup flour, one- 
half cup cornstarch, three level teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. H. W. Mosher. 



Hickory Nut Cream Cake. 

Two cups sifted pulverized sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup thin sweet cream, four cup • flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separatelv, one 
large cup of hickory nut meats chopped in small bits, bake to 
cut in squares, or in layers, with whipped cream between. 

Mrs. C. A. Sackett. 

Fig Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, whites of six eggs beaten stiff", 
two teaspoons baking powder. Filling — One pound of figs 
chopped, one cup sugar, one-half cup water. Boil fifteen min- 
utes and put between the layers. 

Mrs. Iv. Hortense Daskam. 

Custard 

One cup sugar and one-half cup butter creamed, then add 
one cup milk, two well beaten eggs, two and one-hali cups of 
flour, two and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Flavor to 
taste. Custard — One cup hot water, one cup sugar, one egg 
beaten with one tablespoon of flour. Pour into the syrup, 
stirring continually until it thickens, then let it cool. Bake in 
four shallow tins, spread the custard between layers. 

Helen Davis. 



LAVKR CAKEP. 12 1 

Maple Sugar. 

Whites of three eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of milk, two teaspoo.is of baking powder, one- 
and one-half cups of flour. Bake in layers. For the frosting 
take one cup of maple sugar shaved fine, and boil with one- 
half cup of water until it will hair, then beat the white of an 
egg and pour the sj^rup on slowly, stirring constantly. 

Mrs. S. V. Allen. 

Go/den Cream. 

Cream one cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of butter, add 
one-half cup of sweet milk, the well beaten whites of three 
eggs, one and one-half cups of flour with one-half teaspoon 
of soda and one teaspoon of cream of tartar sifted with it. 
Bake in three deep jelly tins. Filling — Beat very light the 
yolks of two eggs, one cup of sugar and two tablespoons of 
rich sweet cream, flavor with vanilla and spread on cakes. Or 
to yolks add one and one-half tablespoons cornstarch, three- 
quarters cup of sweet milk and small lump of butter. Sweeten 
and flavor to taste, cook in a custard kettle until thick, let cool 
and then spread. The last rule is better than the first. 

Mrs. Ida Fall. 

Cream 

One and one-fourth cups of sugar, whites of four eggs, two 
tablespoons of butter, one and one-half cups of sifted flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. Whip one cup 
thick cream, when half whipped, add two tablespoons of pow- 
dered sugar, flavor to taste and put between layers and on top 
of cake. 

Custard. 

Cake the same as for cream cake. Custard filling — Put one 
cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter and a 
pinch of salt together over the fire in a pan of boiling water. 



122 LAYER CAKES. 

Stir one tablespoon of cornstarch and yolks of two eggs 
together, when smooth add a little cold milk, stir into the milk 
when near boiling and let it come to a boil, stirring constantly. 

Dora H. Sackett. 

Filling. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup of 
cream. Boil all together until thick, and flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. W. H. Brockway. 

Chocolate Layer. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, butter the size of an o^gg, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour and one 
heaping teaspoon Royal baking powder and one teaspoon van- 
illa. Filling — Two sections of Baker's sweet chocolate 
grated and one cup of sugar, hot water enough to dissolve. 
Cook as you do boiled frosting. Helen B. Hughes. 

Chocolate Filling. 

Three squares of Baker's chocolate, three tablespoons of 
milk, three tablespoon^; of sugar, one-half teaspoon of vanilla. 
Put in a basin on top of the boiling teakettle to steam until 
smooth. Mrs. Prof. Fall. 

Layer. 

Two cups of fine sugar, one-half cup cf butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking 
powder, whites of four eggs. Flavor to suit the taste. 

Mrs. John Groflf. 

French Cream. 
One cup of sugar, three eggs well beaten, two large table- 
spoons of cold water, one and one-half cups of flour, two 
level teaspoons of Royal baking powder. Bake in two layers 
and then split them, making four layers, and put the follow 



LAYER CAKES. 12. 



ing custard between: one cup of milk, one cup of sugar, one 
tablespoon of cornstarch and two eggs, saving one white for 
frosting. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. W. B. Knickerbocker. 



E(ZLE0TI0" gHOl^TSfilJD 



417 East Porter St, 



^ ^i Busmess LeTTess ^ • 

Are a part of each] day's work. 



Pupils write and trar|scribe Real Business Letters, aqd thus becon^e 
fanrjiliar witl^ good office work. 

They are also tauglqt the use aqd care of 

REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER. 



M 


^s 


^ 


dj 


M 


H 


@ 


[ 


-^^B 


^H 


^^ 


Ki 


~-^-- -v-.-^_^^^== 


bd^^^±= 














un^ PEDde 



Take Short-Hand 
AND Type-Writing. 



Aqd thus fit yourselves to fill lucrative positioqs iq good 
business houses. 

TYPE-WRITING ACCURATELY AND PROMPTLY 

DONE. 



We teaci] tF|e 

^^- •> J. G. GROSS EGLEGTIG SYSTEM, * ^^ 

Whicli clainqs to be tf]e SHORTEST and tfje BEST. No vertical 

stroke, less thaq fifty word sigqs and read as 

easily as long hand. 

Address, MRS. MATTHEW STEEL. 



COOKIES, FRIEDCAKE5, ETC. 

Cookies. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup of butter, two-thirds 
cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, Mrs. I,eonard. 

Rich Crullers. 

Three tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons butter, three 
eggs, one-half teaspoon soda and a little nutmeg. Mix soft 
and boil in hot lard as friedcakes. Mrs. Flora Gale. 

Ginger Buns. 

One coffeecup butter and lard, one teacup molasses, one 
cofFeecup brown sugar, three-quarters cup buttermilk, two 
eggs and one heaping teaspoon soda. Ginger, nutmeg and 
cinnamon to taste. Mrs. John Brown. 

Doughnuts. 

Sift two quarts flour with four heaping teaspoons baking 
powder and a pinch of salt. Break two eggs into a bowl and 
beat. Oh, my. Add a scant teacup of sugar, beat, then add 
six tablespoons melted butter and beat again. Pour into the 
flour and add two cups and one tablespoon of sweet milk grad- 
ually and beat the whole thoroughly. Make into twists as 
soft as can be handled and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Iv. H. Block way. 

Friedcakes. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda and a patty pan of butter. Season to taste. 

Mrs. John Brown. 



126 COOKIES, FRIEDCAKES, ETC. 

Doughnuts. 

One quart flour sifted with two heaping teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs and one 
cup of milk. Fry in hot lard and when done roll in pulver- 
ized sugar. Mrs. John Miller. 

Doughnuis. 

One large spoon of butter, one cofFeecup of sugar, one &gg, 
one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda and one of salt. Flavor 
with vanilla. Mrs. R. C. Welch. 

Sofi Ginger Cake. 

One-half cup sugar (good measure), one cup molasses, one- 
half cup butter (good measure), one teaspoon each cinnamon, 
ginger and cloves, two teaspoons soda in one cup boiling water, 
two and one-half cups flour. Add two well beaten eggs the 
last thing before baking, after all the other ingredients are in. 

Mrs. Prof. Taylor. 

Molasses Cake. 

Two cups flour, one cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup boiling water, one-half (large half) teaspoon soda and 
one egg. Ginger, cinnamon, etc. 

Miss Frances . Staples. 

Friedcakes. 
Break into a dish two eggs, whip lightly and add a pinch 
of salt, five tablespoons of melted lard, a little nutmeg and 
aft r stirring well together, one cup sweet milk, one quart of 
flour and two large teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. R. J. Frost. 

Cream Cookies. (Very Nice). 

One tgg, one coffee cup of sugar, one coffee cup of sour 
cream, butter the size of an egg, a little salt and lemon and 
nutmeg flavoring. One teaspoon soda. 



COOKIKS, FRIEDCAKKS, ETC 1 27 

White Cookies. 

Two eggs, two cups of sugar, one-half cup sour milk, one 
cup of butter, one teaspoon soda, flavor with lemon extract 
and nutmeg. 

Friedcakes. {Excellent). 

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, two cups of buttermilk, one 
cup of sour cream, four teaspoons of soda. Always pulverize 
the soda and level off the teaspoon with a knife. Add lemon 
and nutmeg to taste. Raw potato sliced is good to drop in hot 
lard to prevent the cakes from getting too brown. 

Mrs. Wm. A. Anderson. 

Molasses Cake. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup molasses and one-half 
cup butter, two teaspoons of saleratus dissolved in one cup of 
boiling water, three cups flour. Ginger and cinnamon to 
taste. Mrs. Keller, 

f 

Ginger Cake. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup each sugar, butter and boil- 
ing water. One egg, one teaspoon of ginger, one teaspoon of 
soda and and two and a quarter cups of flour. 

Mrs. Ella H. Brockway. 

Ginger Drops or Cake. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one teaspoon each of ginger, cinnamon and cloves, two tea 
spoons soda in a cup boiling water, two and one-half cups 
flour. Add two well beaten eggs the last thing before baking. 

Mrs. E. E. Goodenow. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 

One-quarter cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-quarter 
cup butter, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda in a cup 



128 COOKIES, FRIEDCAKES. ETC. 

of boiling water, one and one-quarter cups flour (sifted), and 
one well beaten egg the last thing before baking. 

Mrs. Knappen. 

Sofi Ginger Bread. 

One and one-half coffee cups molasses, one-half of butter, 
one-half of sour milk, two cups flour, two eggs and a large 
teaspoon soda. We heap the cups of flour. Add cinnamon 
and ginger, if you like. It is very soft and one is apt to think ' 
that it needs more flour, but that makes it hard. 

Mrs. A. J. Gale. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup lard, one-half cup boiling 
water, one teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon ginger, two 
teaspoons soda, and one teaspoon cinnamon. Mix soft. • 

Mrs. O. Peabody. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one-half cup butter, one 
teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon ginger, one-quarter tenspoon 
cinnamon. Boil the molasses, then stir in butter and soda, 
when cool, add flour enough to roll. 

Mrs. O'Donoughue. 

Another. 

Three eggs, one cup brown sugar, three-fourths cup butter 
or lard, a pinch of salt, one cup molasses. One tablespoon each 
of saleratus and ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, and flour 
enough to roll out nicely. Mrs. Wm. Anderson. 

Another. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup shortening, two- 
thirds cup water, one and one-half teaspoons soda and one 
tablespoon ginger. Mix soft. Mrs. Leonard. 



COOKIES, I'KIKDCAKKS, KTC. 1 29 

Sofi Ginger Bread. 

One cup molasses, one-hall cup brown sugar, one half cup 
■sour cream, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon soda, two eggs, 
flour enough to make like cake batter. One teaspoon baking 
powder sifted well in the flour. A little ginger. When done 
spread with mola.sses and put in the oven a minute. 

Mrs. Frank Alsdorf. 

Fruit Jumbles. 

One coffee cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three 
■eggs, the whites and yolks beaten .separately, one cup chopped 
raisins, one cup Zante currants, one teaspoon cinnamon, one of 
nutmeg and one of soda. Flour enough to make stiflF; roll out 
like cookies. These jumbles are not good until they have 
been baked long enough to soften somewhat. They will keep 
a long time if the children do not find them. 

Mrs. W. H. Brock way. 

Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup buttermilk, 
one teaspoon soda, two eggs and a little nutmeg. Do not use 
more flour than is necessary. Mrs. K- E. Goodenow. 

Anotiier. 

One and one-fourth cups of sugar, one cup butter, four eggs, 
•two teaspoons baking powder. Mix soft and roll thin. 

Mrs. A. A. Knappen. 

Anoiher. 

Four beaten eggs, two cups sugar, two-thirds oup butter, 
-one teaspoon soda dissolved in milk. Mix as soft as can be 
rolled. Hattie Hungerford. 

Ginger Cookies. 
One cup of brown sugar, one cup of shortening Cone-half 
i)utter), two eggs, one-half cup of boiling water, two teaspoons 



130 COOKIES, FRIEDCAKES. ETC. 

of ginger, twc teaspoons of soda, one and one-half cups of 
molasses, flour enough to mix soft. Roll thin and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Mrs. Charles E. Barr. 

Ammonia Cookies. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one cup 
of butter, two eggs, one-half ounce pulverized ammonia, two 
teaspoons of lemon extract, dissolve the ammonia in the milk. 
Roll very thin. Mrs. S. V. Allen. 

Olecoi^es. 

Two eggs well beaten, ten tablespoonfuls of sugar, five 
tablespoonfuls of butter, stir sugar and butter to a cream, then 
add one cup of milk with two teaspoons of baking powder in a 
little flour and a little grated nutmeg, add all together and roll 
and cut out m little round ball and ixy. Roll in powdered 
sugar as quickly as done. Ada Iddings Gale. 

Sofi Ginger Bread. 

One-half cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of 
butter, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one of ginger and one of 
cloves, two teaspoons of soda in a cup of boiling water, two 
and one-half cups of flour. Add two well beaten eggs the last 
thing before baking. Mrs. Prof. Fall. 

Molasses Sponge. 
Three eggs beaten separately, one cup ot molasses, one tea- 
spoon of soda, ginger and cloves to taste, one and one-half cups 
of flour; one tablespoon of butter added the last thing. 

Mrs. Mary Dickie. 

Graham Cookies. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one egg, one cup sour milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon of cinnamon , one cup of part 
lard and part butter, melted, graham flour to mix. Roll them 
out with wheat flour Mrs. S. Reed. 



COOKIES, FRIEDCAKES, ETC. I31 

Drop Cakes. 

One cup brown sugar, one of molasses, one of lard, three 
eggs, one large tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon of soda 
dissolved in cup full of boiling water, five cups of flour. Drop 
from a spoon into a greased pan and bake. 

Mrs. Dr. Parmeter. 

Conundrums. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of melted lard, two cups of 
sweet milk, three eggs. Mix very hard, roll thin and cut and 
twist the same as crullers. Fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Will Davis. 



BEVERAGES 

•• Practice makes pcifecl." 

Making Coffee. 

"One for the pot" and a heaping teaspoon of ground coffee 
for each person is the usual allowance. Mix well with a part 
or the whole of an egg and enough of cold water thoroughly to 
moisten it, then, after scalding the coffee pot, put in 
the coffee with half the quantitj' of boiling water needed, 
allowing one pint less than there are tablespoons of 
ground coflFee. Boil quite fast for five minutes stirring 
down from the top and sides as it boils up, then place on 
the back part of the stove or range and let it simmer about 
five minutes longer! When ready to serve add the rest of the 
boiling water. Coffee boiled a long time is strong, but not so 
well flavored or nice as when prepared as above. The less 
time coffee is cooked the more coffee is required, but the finer 
the flavor. 

Cream and M/'/k for Coffee. 

Rich sweet cream well beaten to free it from lumps is best 
for coffee, but if it cannot be obtained, fresh boiling milk is a 
good substitute. The white of an egg thoroughly beaten and 
and added to thin cream or milk is also very desirable. 

Vienna Coffee wit/i l/lffiipped Cream. 

Take equal parts of Mocha and Java coffee ground together, 
mix thoroughly with the white of an egg, pour on boiling 
water, let the coffee froth and set to keep hot but not to boil, 
for fifteen minutes. To one cup of cream add the white of an 



134 BEVERAGES. 

egg, whip until stiff, put into the cups with the cream and 
pour on the coffee. In making a large quantity of coffee it is 
always best to put it in thin bags, leaving plenty of room for 
it to swell. 

Portable Lemonade. 

Roll the lemon on the table, then press the juice into a bowl 
and strain out the seeds, remove the pulps from the skins and 
boil them in water, allowing a pint of water to a dozen pulps. 
Five minutes, boiling will be sufficient to extract the acid. 
Then strain the water into the juice and allow one pound of 
granulated sugar to each pint of the resulting liquid. Boil len 
minutes and bottle for use. Allow one tablespoonful of th e 
kmon S3 rup to each glassful of water. 
Summer Drink. 

One quart of water, one tablespoon sifted ginger, three 
heaping tablespoons of sugar and one-half pint of vinegar. 

Sunday School Lemonade. 
Take a large pail full of pure water, one-half of a small 
lemon, and do not neglect to put all the seeds in, one teaspoon 
three-fourths full of sugar. Flavor with two ounces of ice, 
stir up well and deal out in small glasses half full at five cents 
a glass. Voluntarily contributed by 

Prof C. B. Scheffler. 

Vienna Chocolate. 
"Put into a granite coffee pot set in boiling water one 
quart of new milk or a pint each of cream and milk, stir into 
it three heaping tablespoons of grated chocolate mixed to a 
paste with co!d milk, let it boil two or three minutes and serve 
at once. To make good chocolate good materials are required. ' ' 



CANDIES. 

"To make it, one imisl have a spark of genius." 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One-half grated cocoanut, one-half pound loaf sugar, 
whites of three eggs. Drop on buttered papers and bake. 

Mrs. A. J, Gale. 

Cocoanuf Macaroons. 

Two cups of grated cocoanut, one cup powdered sugar, two 
tablespoons of flour, whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake on buttered papers. 
(Good.) 

Maple Taffy. 

Two cups maple syrup, one cup sugar, one-half cup water, 
and butter the size of an egg. Boil until it hairs from the 
spoon, then pour in buttered tins, and when cool enough, pull. 

Vinegar Taffy. 

Two cups brown sugar, one wine glass vinegar, butter the 
size of an Qgg. Boil until it hardens in water and pour into a 
buttered pan to cool. When cool enough, mark into squares. 

Helen Davis. 

Peanut Candy. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup chopped peanuts. Put 
sugar into an iron spider without water, stir continually until 
melted, being very careful not to burn. When melted, stir in 
the peanuts quickly and pour into buttered fans to cool. 



136 CANDIES. 

Lemon Drops. 

Pour clear lemon juice on powdered sugar, boil till a thick 
syrup and drop upon plates and dry in a warm place. 

Milk Candy. 

Take equal parts of milk and w'hite sugar, boil until it 
clings to the dish, stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
When nearly done put in peanuts alreadj^ broken up and skin- 
ned. Pour into buttered tins to cool. Grated cocbanut can be 
used, or any kinds of nuts. 

Chocolaie Caramels. 

One-half pound of grated chocolate, two cups white sugar, 
one large cup of molasses, one cup sweet milk and one-half 
cup butter. When almost done put in the chocolate. Do not 
cook as long as candy. Cut in diamonds when nearly cool. 

Pop Corn Balls. 

Four quarts of popped corn, boil two cups sugar, butter 
size of an &gg, one-fourth cup vinegar and one-fourth cup of 
water until it is brittle, when dropped in cold water. Stir this 
uickly into the corn. Dip hands in cold water and mould 
into balls. 



PHiPii^iligi^i^i^g: 



JOS. BIECHELE'S 

BANNER 



SOMP. 



THE WORLD'S 

BEST FOR 

FAMILY USE. 



Save 25 Banner Soap wrappers, mail to Jos. Biechele Soap 
Co., Canton, Ohio, and get a handsome souvenir. Views of 
the United States (our latest) free. 



LAUflDRY^ 

"Cleanliness is next to godliness." 

To remove iron rust stains salts of lemon is best, but if ycu 
do not have it, moisten the spots with a solution of Epsom 
Salts in a few drops of hot water, and rub in well once or 
twice; then fill a tin vessel with boiling water and set on the 
stains. Rinse in cold water. 

To remove grass stains, pour boiling hot water on the 
stains before washing the garment. 

To remove mildew, rub common brown soap on the spots 
and scrape white chalk on it, keep wet and lay in the sun. 

To remove paint spots, when neither turpentine nor ben- 
zine will remove paint spots from garments, try chloroform. It 
will remove paint that has been on for six months. 

Mrs. Keller. 

G/oss For Shirt Fronts. 

Melt together with a gentle heat one ounce of white wax, 
and two ounces of spermaceti, when cold break into pieces 
about the size of a large pea and put in a covered can. Use 
one of these pieces in your clear starch. 

Cleaning Fluid. 

Two quarts of watar. one ounce sulphate ether, one ounce 
glycerine, one ounce spirits of wine, one ounce aqua ammonia, 
one-fourth pound castile soap. Dissolve the soap in water, 
then add the other ingredients. Mrs. Lutz. 



LAUNDRY. 139 

Washing Made Easy. 

Soak the clothes over night if possible, if not, one-half 
hour in the morning. Make a good suds in your boiler and 
when your clothes are ready p-.it in one table.spoonful of tur- 
pentine, boil twenty minutes. Rub a little in the first rinse 
water, rinse again, blue, and your clothes will be white, sweet 
and clean. Mrs. J. Clift. 



J. W. MCCREA. 



LEVANT COLE. 



MccReft K coLe, 



EXTENSIVE GROWERS OF 



CHOICE TEA ROSES 



j^isrn) iphnte p^HjO^^^t^ei^s. 



Prompt attention given to all orders. 



TELEPHONE. 




THE FAMOUS 

BISSEHjIL 



Carpet i Sweepers 



wi// please you when 
you try them. 



They cost but little and save much in dust and work and 
wear on carpets. A brush of pure bristles and every late 
improvement in them. Also the famous Bissell Broom Action, 
which makes them self-adjusting to every kind of carpet. 
Every sweeper with the name "Bissell" on it is guaranteed, 
and thej' are sold everywhere. 



BISSELL CARPET SWEEP IB CO., 

GRAND KAPIDS, NKW YORK. LONDON. PARIS 



FACTS WORTH KMOWmG. 

"What is lomembeied decays, what is written lives." 

To Paevenf Metals From Rusting. 

Melt together three parts of lard and one part of resin; 
apply a thin coating with a brush. It will prevent stoves and 
grates from rusting through the summer. 

To keep ink from getting thick, put two or three whole 
cloves in the bottle. Sure. 

Salt is one of the best exterminators of the common carpet 
moth. Sprinkle it around the base -boards and in the corners 
of the room. It is a good plan to use it when tacking down 
the carpet. 

To sw^eep a carpet — Sweep thorough^3^ then take one half 
pailful of soft warm water, two tablespoons of ammonia, take 
a large clean cloth, wring out quite dry and wipe the dust from 
the carpet, this will brighten and make the carpet look new. 

A mustard plaster should never blister. If a blister is 
wanted there are other plasters preferable to mustard. For that 
reason use the white of an egg in mixing your poultice instead 
of water. 

A good plaster to be used when a blister is not desired is 
made as follows: Three teaspoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful 
of red pepper wet with hot vinegar. Will draw but not blister. 



142 FACTS WORTH KNOWING. 

Cure for Eczema. 

One tablespoon of salt, one of black pepper, one of ginger, 
one of allspice, one of sulphur, one of tar, one teacup of sweet 
lard. Simmer a long time on the back of the stove, then 
strain off and cool. Use as an ointment. 

To keep salt in your salt cellars from clogging the top or 
becoming damp, put the salt in a teacup and mix well with it 
a little cornstarch. Do this ancf you will be delighted with the 
result. 

Cayenne pepper will keep the buttery and store room free 
from ants and cockroaches. If a mouse makes an entrance 
into any part of your dwelling, saturate a rag with cayenne in 
solution and stuff it into the hole, which can then be repaired 
with either wood or mortar. No rat or mouse will eat that rag 
for the purpose of opening communication with a depot of sup- 
plies. 

Gasoline, if poured into the places frequented by moths, 
carpet bugs, or bed bugs, once in two weeks during the warm 
weather will rid them of the place infested. 

Placing sulpher and camphor gum on live coals and burn- 
ing in a closely shut room equally often will have the same 
effect. 

Gasoline will remove ink stains from carpet and clean wool 
and silk fabrics. 

For Gleaning Carpets. 

Dip a newspaper in clean water. Squeeze out so it will 
not drip, tear in small pieces and scatter over the carpet. In 
sweeping, the dust will adhere to the paper instead of settling 
upon the furniture. 

If the color has been taken out of silk or woolen goods by 
fruit stains, ammonia will usually restore the color. 

One or two teaspoonfuls of ammonia added to a pail of 
water will clean windows better than soap. 

Yellow stains left by sewing machine oil on white goods 



FACTS WORTH KNOWING. 1 43. 

may be removed by rubbing the spot with a clot-i wet with 
ammonia before washing with soap. 

Put a teaspoonful of ammonia in a quart of water, wash 
your brushes and combs in this and all grease and dirt will 
disappear. Rinse, shake and dry in the sun or by the fire. 

To Prevent Glass Cans from Breaking. 
After having rinsed and heated your can, insert a large 
silver spoon or fork and then commence to fill your can with 
boiling fruit, withdraw the spoon or fork when the can is 
nearly full and place it in the next can. Try it. You can fill 
cans by the dozen and never break one. Never allow a strong 
current of cold air to reach the can while it is hot. 

Disinfeciant. 

The following formula was recommended by Dr. Kedzie to 
disinfect bath rooms, water closets, drain pipes, etc.: Five 
pounds copperas, one ounce carbolic acid dissolved in three 
gallons of water: It should be used at least once a week. 



C. ^f^_ Zx^cCIL^EilLTTIC, 



BOOTS AND SHOES. 



LaiieE' Fine Slioes a Specialty, 



fiLL WIDTHS ftND SIZeS. 



AlbiGi?, /MGl?igai?. 



Parsoms & JOY 



Dealers in all kinds of Farm Im- 
plements, Buggies, Wagons, Carts, 
Etc., Etc., Etc. 



/\LBION. MICHlGftN. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 

"We promise little ihnt we may give much." 

Cornstarch Pudding. 

One pint ot sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two table- 
spoons of cornstarch, three of sugar and a little salt. Put the 
milk in a pan, set in a kettle of hot water on the stove, when 
it reaches the boiling point add the sugar, thei' the starch dis- 
solved in a little milk, then the whites of the eggs whipped to 
a stiff froth, beat it and let it cook a few minutes. Sauce: 
Bring to boiling point one pint of milk, add three tablespoons 
of sugar, then the beaten yolks of the eggs thinned with one 
tablespoon of milk, stirring all the time till it thickens, flavor 
to suit the taste. To make a chocolate pudding, flavor the 
above pudding with vanilla, remove two-thirds of it and add 
half a cake of chocolate dissolved in a little milk, put a layer 
of half the white pudding into the mould, then the chocolate, 
then the rest of the white. Mrs. DeBow. 

Whipped Cream Cake. 
Whites of three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, two and one-half cups of flour, one cup of milk, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, flavor with vanilla. Bake in 
layers. Cream for filling — One half pint of cream whipped, 
sweeten and flavor. Put this between layers and on top. 

Mrs. G. W. Schneider. 

Green Tomato Pie. 

One pint of tomatoes chc^>ped fine, six large apples chop- 
ped fine, three cups of sugar or molasses, three tablespoons of 



146 Additional recipes. 

flour, one-half cup of vinegar, a little salt and a teaspoon of 
all kinds of spices. Cook the tomatoes and apples before 
adding the other ingredients. Bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. S. Y. Hill. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One quart sifted pumpkin, one quart sweet milk, four eggs, 
one small teaspoonful of ginger and one of cinnamon. Sweeten 
to taste. Mrs. J. H. Sackett. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle. 

To seven pounds of ripe tomatoes add three pounds of sugar, 
one quart vinegar. Boil them together fifteen minutes, skim 
out the tomatoes and boil the syrup a few minutes longer. 
Spice to suit the taste with cinnamon and cloves. 

Mrs. John Groff. 

. Coffee Jelly. 

Two cups strong coffee, one cup of sugar, one cup of boil- 
ing water, half cup of cold water, half a box of gelatine. Let 
the gelatine soak in cold water one hour, stir the sugar into it 
and pour over both the boiling water and the hot coffee. Strain 
into a mould. When cold turn out into a glass dish and .serve 
with whipped cream. Mrs. L. R. Fiske. 

Prune Pie. 

Soak one cup prunes over night in cold water, remove the 
pits and cook until tender with two-thirds cup sugar. Bake 
between two crusts. 

Grape Pie. 

Pulp one pound of grapes, cook the pulps until seeds can 
be removed by putting through sieve. Boil skins about fifteen 
minutes. Add pulp and a large cup of .sugar, boil with the 



Additional recipe^; 147 

skins fifteeri minutes, put strips across for top crust. This 
makes one pie. Mrs. J. H. Ferguson. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Take cold boiled potatoes and cut them into dice one-half 
inch square, spread a layer of them on a flat baking dish, then 
season with pepper and salt and spread with cream dressing, 
add another layer of potatoes and then of the seasoning and 
dressing, sprinkle with cracker crumbs and bake twenty 
minutes, or until well browned on top. Garnish with parsley. 
Cream dressing — Take equal parts of butter and flour in a 
basin and rub well together over the fire, and add cream or 
milk that has been heating in another dish, adding just enough 
to make a thick, creamy dressing. Mrs. Hattie Earle. 

Lemon Bread Pudding. 

One cup of bread crumbs, one pint of sweet milk ; let the 
crumbs soak in the milk until soft. Yolks of two eggs well 
beaten, a small cup of sugar, piece of butter size of a walnut, 
and the grated rind of one large lemon. Bake as you would 
custard, then frost the top with the whites of the eggs beaten 
light with two tablespoons of sugar and the juice of the lemon, 
brown slightly in the oven. Dedie Hayes Kilian. 

Brown Bread. 
Four cups com meal, two cups flour, fine cup molasses, one 
quart sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, a little salt. Steam 
two hours and bake one-half hour. Mrs. R. C. Coney. 

Baked Whitefish. 

Fill the fish with a stuffing of fine bread crumbs and a little 
butter. Sew up the fish and sprinkle with butter, pepper and 
salt. Dredge with flour and bake one hour, basting often. 
Serve with parsley or egg sauce. Mrs. Fred;; Crane. 



The Publislihu/ House of that <ireat Ittiiid of 'JOO.OOO enruest, ronserrnfetl • 

iroineu of the National H'. C. T. U, is located in 

Chieaffo and is called the 

WOMAN'S TEMPERANCE PUBLICATION ASSOCIATION. 

The leadijifi jiahticatioit is 

••• THE UNION SIGN7XL-. ••• 

Pr/'ce $1.50 per annum, with special club rates. 

This i)aper is imblislied weekly— has a siil)scriptioii list of over 85,000, ami is 
growing rapidly because 

1st, It is a flefentler of the home. 

Jd. It is the advocate of the greatest moral reform of the century. 
3d. It believes wiuit it says— and says what it believes without fear or favor. 
Among the leading contributors are 
31iss Frauds E. Willard, Nedl Dow, 

Mrs. Hannah Whit all Smith, John O. M'hittier, 

Mrs. Mary T, Lath rap, He rr ich , Johnson, D.T). 

and many others. No one interested in Temijerance can altord to do without The 
Union Signal. 

The W. T. P. A. also issues a German Temperance Monthly called 

Uer Deutsch-Ainerikaner, Price 50 cents per annum. 

The Young Crusader, an Illustrated juvenile paper. Price 5() cents per year. 
Sunday School edition, published monthly. Single copy, 15 cents per year. In 
quantities, *1.00 per 100 copies. 

Monthly Responsive Readings, 1 copy 1 year, 10 cents; fi! copies, 1 year, $1.00 
For the aid of temperance meetings. 

Bible Reading l.,ea»ets, by Mrs. Hannah Whitall Smith. 1 copy 1 year, 12 
cents. 10 copies, 1 year. f;l.oo. Gospel readings in Mrs. Smith's unmistakable man- 
ner of writing. 

liand of Hope Quarterlies. Price 5 cents each, $4.00 per 100. For teaching 
youth scientific and (Jospel Temperance. 

Among our books is one by Miss Francis K. Willard, called "Nineteen 
Reautiful Years." Price 75 cents. 

Romance of the 19th Century Crusade, by Miss Mary Allen West, price $1.00. 

A Young Woman's Notion, by Mary McDowell. Price 35 cents. 

Agents Wanted. For the sale of Miss Willard's new book, "Glimpses of Fifty 
Years." Also Senator Blair s book, "The Temperance Movement." 

Don't hesitate about writing a postal card asking for LATKST BULLETIN 
of publications, it will be sent you free. 

Address your orders, letters of Inquiry, etc., to the Rusiuess Manager, 

1«1 LAK.VLLK ST., (MIHJACiO. 



F. W, SCHUMACHER ct- CO. 

IS THE PLACE TO 

Buy Your Groceries Cheap for Cash, 

We make a specialty of good Coffee, Tea, Baking 
Powder and all Articles used in this Book. 



-4* 

Please give ixs a call at onriiep of Superior and < ass Streets. 






9 W. T. WRIGHT, 

D B N T I ST 



GOLD FILLINGS AND TREATING TEETH A SPECIALTY. 



—'-►GO TO*— 



D. H. GooDeNow's 
DRY GOODS AND NOTIONS, 

HEADQUARTERS FOR KID GLOVES. 



NEXT DOOR TO POSTOFF'CE. 



USE SEELY'S EXTBAGTS, 



WHEM Ifi MEED OF 



ANYTHING IN 





lis or 




etig, 



CALL AT 



Where you will find all the new styles. Gents' fine furnish- 
ings a special t}'. Largest line of hats in the city. 



FOR FIRST CLASS WORK 

o o GO TO o o 

m% tiff pifiaiasigfif Iff?, 

no ERIK STREET, 
ALBION, - - - MICHIGAN. 



"\7^. IB. c::K^fA.iNrE], 

CLOSIfiG n OUT 



ALL OF HIS 



< DRY GOODS •• 

ftT COST ftND BeLOW COST. 



PENSIONS. 

NeWTONT KIRK, 

T^L-BION, 7VVICH. 

Attends to all kinds of claims against the Government, under 
the new or old laws. Claims of widows, and minors, de- 
pendent fathers and mothers, increase and original claims 
success''ully prosecuted. No fee unless successful. Advice 
free. 

i^ lE^OTTHSriD ! # 

The place where vou can get the lowest prices in 

DRY GOODS AND MILLINERY 

13 AT A. URY'S DEPARTMENT STORE. 



One trial will convince you that we are Headquarters for 
GRRAO" BARGAINS. 

A. Dry's Department Store, • Albion, Michigan. 



GREAT BARGAINS IN 

Clothing for Men and Boys, 

I. JT^COBS, 

STAR CLOTHIER, ALBION, MICH. 



iNDex. 



PREFACE, -.-.-. 17 

BREAD, ...... 20 

BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. ... 29 

SOUP, .--... 33 

FISH AND SHELL FISH, - - - - 38 

MEATS, ---.-. 44 

VEGETABLES, 53 

ENTREES, ------ 56 

SALADS, --..-- 58 

EGGS, ...... 65 

PICKLES AND SPICED FRUIT, - - - 69 

PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES, - - 77 

PIES, - - - - - - - 87 

CREAMS AND CUSTARDS, - - - 92 

JELLY, - - - - - - - 96 

CAKE, ..--.. loi 

FROSTINGS, - - - - - - 113 

LAYER CAKE, - - - - - 115 

COOKIES AND FRIEDCAKES, - - - 125 

BEVERAGES, ----- 133 

CANDIES, ------ 135 

LAUNDRY, - - - - - 138 

FACTS WORTH KNOWING, - - - 141 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. - - - 145 



