TX 
715 

•H218 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



Shelf ..«H-2mIS 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



"I am but a gatherer and distributer of other 
men's stuff " 



J-lelpful \\\T)k$ • 



to 



.j'* 
«%«• 



fiouse^eepe^. 



W. H. BALLARD, 





In Plain, Neapolitan and Fancy Moulds, 



FRUIT ICES. 



102 North Delaware Street, 

INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 



'PHONE, 4-10. 



liTIOICTJ^C, 



Fancy Cake Baker 



AND 



CATEKER 



75 Massachusetts Avenue, and 

53 North Pennsylvania Street. 



Helpful Hints to Housekeepers, 



$& 



^ 



HELPFUL HINTS 



COLLECTED AND COMPILED BY 



The Young People's Circle 

PLYMOUTH CHURCH, 



INDIANAPOLIS, IND 

7 




" / have bought Golden opinions from all sorts of 
people " 



INDIANAPOLIS: 

WM. B. BURFORD, LITHOGRAPHER, PRINTER AND BINDER. 
1890 






Copyrighted 1890. 
All rights reserved. 



)4m "m 



fy^cLiu^v^oA 



c? 



/ ^ 



PREFACE. 



In giving these hints to the public, it is the purpose 
of the compilers to furnish a chapter of helpful sug- 
gestions culled from the household experiences of 
women of " gumption." 

All these recipes have been carefully tested and ap- 
proved by experienced housekeepers. 

If followed strictly, and mixed with judgment, it is 
believed that they can not fail to give to the lovers of 
wholesome and palatable food, a "•reason for their be- 
ing." 

It lias been quaintly observed that " Good diet, with 
wisdom, best comforteth man.'' That such may be the 
mission of these "Helpful Hints," serving "taste after 
taste with kindliest change," is the hope of 

The Committee. 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Yeast 5 

Bread 7 

Breakfast dishes 11 

Soups 19 

Fish and shell fish 23 

Meats 27 

Vegetables 35 

Salads 39 

Entrees 45 

Desserts 47 

Cakes 64 

Ices and iee creams 89 

Candies 98 

Preserves 99 

Pickles 103 

Miscellaneous... 113 



YEAST. 



"A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump." 

< )iu' and one-half cups of grated raw potatoes, one 
cup of white sugar, two-thirds of a cup of salt: pour 
on four quarts of boiling water: stir while pouring in. 
Steep a handful of hops and stir into the above. 
When cold add one and a half cups of yeast. — Mrs. 
K. T. Griffith. 

Boil eight medium-sized potatoes: a [tint of hops in 
a half gallon of water. While these are boiling, stir 
together one teacup of sugar, two-thirds teacup of salt, 
one of flour, one tablespoonful of ginger. When the 
potatoes are done mash them very fine and add to the 
sugar, salt and flour. Stir well. Strain the hops, and 
to this add three quarts of boiling water. When luke- 
warm stir in one-half pint of yeast. — Mrs. Cyrena Lee. 



We invite the attention of Housekeepers 

to our 



PRINCESS 

PATENT FLOUR 

WHICH WE CAN 



to be the finest for family use that can be 
bought. It is also the 



CHIIE-A-IFIEST, 



considering the quantity and quality of 
bread it bakes. 



Blanton, Watson & Co., 

ARCADE MILLS. 



BREAD. 



"Here is bread, which strengthens man's heart, and, therefore, called 
the staff of life." 

Quick Yeast Bread. 

In the morning, take three pints of water, one table- 
spoon of lard, one tablespoon of sugar and one-half 
tablespoon of salt. Dissolve one cake of quick yeast 
in a cup of warm water. Stir in this mixture enough 
flour to make a thick batter ; allow this sponge to rise 
two hours, in a warm place, then work in enough flour 
to make a good, soft dough, not too stiff. Knead it thor- 
oughly, set to rise again (two hours or more, according 
to the warmth of the room) and make out in loaves. 
This quantity will make four small or three large loaves. 
— Mrs. Geo. Bass. 

Salt-rising Bread. 

Scald one teacup of sweet milk (after yon wash din- 
ner dishes), pour over one tablespoon corn meal. Let 
this stand in a warm place until morning, then take a 
enp of sweet milk and warm with boiling water. Add 
this to the scalded meal : add flour to make middling- 
stiff batter and one-half teaspoon salt. Let this stand 
in a warm place until light. Then mix with warm 
milk and work and mould into loaves. Let rise again 
and then bake. — Mrs. A. J. McConney. 



BREAD. 



Boston Brown Bread. 



Three cups corn meal, one cup graham flour, three- 
fourths cup New Orleans molasses, one teaspoon 
soda and one teaspoon salt. Mix part milk and part 
water to the consistency of cake batter. Steam five 
hours. — Mrs. G-ilh rL 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One coffee cup rye meal, two coffee cups corn meal, 
one-half cup molasses, two teaspoons of Waking powder, 
one teaspoon salt, and sweet milk enough to make 
about as stiff as pound cake. Steam three hours. — 
Mrs. Yeaton. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

One-halt teacup white flour, one and one-half cups 
graham flour, two and one-half cups corn meal, one 
cup cold water, one cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, 
and one teaspoon each of soda and salt. Mix all to- 
gether and add one cup boiling water. Stir well together 
and steam one and one-half hours and brown a little in 
oven. — Mrs. R. IK Townseiid. 

Graham Bread. 

Pare two medium sized potatoes and boil until very 
soft, then mash. Add, while potatoes are hot, butter 
the size of a walnut, tablespoon of sugar, dessert-spoon- 
ful of salt and beat until just warm, then add one 
quart lukewarm water in which one cake of compressed 
yeast has been dissolved; thicken with flour of same 
temperature until as thick as griddle cakes. Put in a 
warm place to rise, which will be in about two hours, 
then add Graham flour, beating it rapidly until it will 
drop from the spoon and remain in the position in 
which it has dropped. Plaee in pans well buttered, and 



BREAD. 9 

again put in a warm place to rise. Bake as other 
bread. This quantity will make four small loaves or 
three of medium size. — Mrs. M. A. Warburton. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one eup 
molasses, three cups Graham flour, a little salt and then 
hake. — Miss Tngersoll. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Into two quarts of Hour ruh one tablespoonful o\' 
butter, stir in four tablespoons of sugar and a little 
salt. Pour one and a half pints of cold boiled milk 
ami three-quarters cup of yeast into a hole made in 
this flour, and let stand over night without mixing, 
stir well and let stand till light, then knead lightly 
twenty minutes, roll out rather thicker than for dough- 
nuts, cut same as for biscuits, spread with butter, fold 
by bringing the two edges together in the center; when 
light bake in ;i moderate oven twenty minutes. — Mrs. 
Sarah J. Gil/. 

Cinnamon Rolls. 

Take a piece of bread dough, roll into a square of 
medium thickness, butter well, and sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon. Cut in strips about an inch in width; 
roll up loosely: raise and bake. — Mrs. Edwin Hit/. 

White Mountain Rolls. 

One cup of warm sweet milk, one tablespoon of gran- 
ulated sugar, one tablespoon of butter or lard, one 
teaspoon of salt, one-half eup of yeast (dissolve one- 
fourth cake in one-half cup of warm water), white 
of one egg beaten to a stiff' froth. Stir all together, 
and add one quart of flour. Knead ten minutes and 



10 BREAD. 

let rise; knead twenty minutes and roll out with rolling- 
pin ; cut with biscuit cutter. Dip knife in melted but- 
ter, and spread over the top of biscuit. Fold in form 
of rolls. Do not let them touch in pan. Raise one 
hour. Bake fifteen minutes. — Mrs. Izor. 

Rusks. 

One pi i it of warm sweet milk, one-half pound of 
sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, one teacup of yeast, 
one teaspoon of salt. Make into soft dough; let rise 
over night. In the morning make out into two small 
rolls; let rise; then bake. — Mrs. Izor. 

Corn Pone. 

( >ne quart butter-milk, two teaspoons soda, one quart 
meal, two cups flour, one cup molasses, one tablespoon 
salt. Bake three hours in a crock. Keep covered 
until cool. — Mrs. Izor. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

To one quart of sifted Hour add one-half teaspoon of 
salt and three teaspoons of baking powder. Mix thor- 
oughly. Rub one tablespoon of lard into the flour 
until smooth. Add enough water to make a soft dough. 
Mould, cut and hake in a quick ov.en. — Mrs. Julia H. 
Qoodhart. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



"And then to breakfast, with what appetite you have." 

Breakfast Cakes. 

Use dry wheat bread. Pare oft' brown crust. Cut 
into small pieces what remains. Pour on enough hot 
water to thoroughly moisten it. Allow to cool. Two 
eggs for each quart of crumbs. A pinch of salt. Stir 
this well. Add one cup sweet milk; equal parts flour 
and corn meal, until it is the consistency of batter. 
Lastly, add the whites of two eggs, well beaten, and 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Stir very well. A 
tablcspoonful is enough to fry for one cake. Hot grid- 
dles. — Miss Ingersoll. 

Potato Cakes. 

Take cold mashed potato, add one or two eggs, ac- 
cording to amount of potatoes. Beat until light. Drop 
into boiling lard. If too stiff, add a little milk. — Mrs. 
Boicourt. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

When first starting, take at night one quart lukewarm 
water, one cup graham, then buckwheat enough to 
make a thin batter: lastly, add one-half cake yeast, 
dissolved in a little warm water: set in a warm place. 
In the morning, add one tablespoon each of butter and 
molasses, one fourth spoon soda and salt to taste. Use 



12 BREAKFAST DISHES. 



same ingredients each night except yeast, which needs 
to be added only occasionally. Always have a cup of 
hatter left each morning, which should be kept in a cool 
place during the day. Use more soda if necessary. — 
Mrs. Geo. Hamilton. 

Pop Over. 
One cup of milk, one cup of water, two eggs, one 
dessert spoon of sugar, a little salt. Mix them well 
and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. Hufford. 

Wheat Gems. 

Two eggs, one tablespoon of white sugar, two-thirds 
en}) of sweet milk, two-thirds pinch of salt, one pint of 
wheat flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, two table- 
spoons of melted butter. — Mrs. Laura Hunt. 

Sally Lunn Gems. 

One egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoons of sugar, two cups of 
flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. Bake fifteen 
minutes. — Mrs. Lois G. Hufford. 

Waffles. 

Three pints of Hour, three eggs, salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar, one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
sufficient sour milk to make a thick batter, which will 
drop, not pour, from the spoon. Dissolve a small tea- 
spoonful of soda into a tablespoonful of warm water. 
Add the well beaten whites of the eggs last of all. Let 
the irons be hot before putting in the ftatter. — Carrie S. 

Portcv. 

Waffles. 

One and one-half pints milk, one egg, three table- 
spoons of melted butter or lard, two teaspoons baking- 
powder, one teaspoon salt, flour. Make batter a little 
thinner than the batter for layer cakes. The irons 
should be hot and well greased. — Mrs. Greenstreet. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 13 



Graham Gems. 

Sift one and one-half pints of Graham flour with 
three level spoons of baking powder. Mix to a stiff' 
batter with cold sweet milk; one well-beaten egg, one 
level spoon of salt, half cup of sugar, a tablespoon of 
melted butter. Drop in hot gem-pans, and bake in a 
hot oven. — Mrs. J. B. Roberts. 

Johnny Cakes. 

One cup flour, two of corn meal, one and one-half of 
sour milk (buttermilk), two eggs, one-half cup sugar, 
one teaspoon soda, and a little salt. Put salt, sugar, 
the soda, pulverized very fine, and eggs beaten light 
into meal and flour, adding milk last. Beat well. 
Grease pans or gem-pans and bake quickly. — Mrs. Chip- 
man. 

Muffins. 

One egg, one tablespoon of sugar, one cup milk, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, flour to make thick. 
Beat well, and bake quickly in gem-pans. — Mrs. Izor. 

Egg Muffins. 

Take one cup of cold boiled rice, one cup of mashed 
potatoes; to it add five eggs, boiled three minutes; one 
teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoon of 
vinegar, pepper and salt. Mix all together and pour in 
greased muffin-pans. Strew cracker crumbs and bits 
of butter over them before putting in oven to brown. — 
Miss Emma Dithmer. 

Sweet Breakfast Muffins. 

Sift two teaspoons baking powder with one quart of 
flour; add one cup of sugar. Rub into the flour a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, then stir into a pint 
of milk. Beat free from lumps to a batter. Bake in 
muffin-rings on stove, or in gem-irons in the oven. 



14 BREAKFAST DISHES. 



Breakfast Stew of Beef. 

Cut two pounds of beef — not too lean — into small 
pieces. Stew gently for two hours, with enough water 
to cover. Set it away until next morning. Season 
with salt, pepper, parsley, and, if liked, a little chopped 
onion. Stew for half hour, adding a teaspoon of tomato 
catsup and a tablespoon of browned flour, wet with cold 
water; finally a little vinegar or cider to suit the taste. 
Boil up once. Pour in a covered dish. 

Breakfast Dish— No. 2. 

Cut slices of cold roast beef; cover with a gravy 
made of three tablespoons of melted butter, one of cat- 
sup or Worcester sauce, one teaspoon of vinegar, a little 
salt and pepper, one spoon of currant jelly, a teaspoon 
of prepared mustard, warm water. Cover well and 
steam for half an hour. — Mrs. Purer. 

Oyster Mush. 

Make stiff corn meal mush, and when about done 
stir in a quart of oysters (small) with their liquor. If 
thinned too much add very little more meal, and let 
cook until very stiff. Pour in pan to get cold. Cut in 
slices and fry a nice rich brown in lard and butter. — 
Laura M. Campbell. 

Baked Omelette. 

Six eggs beaten separately, one desert spoon of Hour, 
one teaspoon of salt, one cup of milk, one tablespoon 
of melted butter. Pour into the baking dish, then add 
the beaten whites and stir in very lightly. Bake twenty 
minutes. — Mrs. J. B. Elam. 

Omelette. 

Four eggs, one coffee cup of milk, one tablespoon of 
flour and a pinch of salt. Separate the yolks from 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 15 



whites. Beat the yolks very light and whip the whites 
to a dry froth. Add to the yolks the flour set in a lit- 
tle of the milk, then stir in gently the whites and lastly 
the milk. Have your pan hot and well greased with 
butter, pour in the mixture, let it stand long enough 
on top of stove to set around the edge, then place in 
oven four or live minutes to finish cooking. Serve 
folded double on a warm platter. — Mrs. James Smith. 

Eggs on Foam. 

Beat the whites of eggs still' with a little salt, spread 
out on a flat earthen baking dish, make little hollows 
and lay the }*olks into them. Bake three minutes. — 
Mrs. W. H. Dye. 

Baked Eggs. 

Separate the yolks from the whites ; be careful not 
to break the yolks. Beat the whites until very light. 
Have ready a dish greased with butter and put in 
the whites. Make a shallow place in the middle and 
drop in yolks without being beaten. Season with salt 
and pepper; cook three minutes in a real hot oven. — 
Mrs. James Smith. 

Baked Eggs. 

Break six eggs into a buttered dish, taking care that 
each is whole. Sprinkle pepper and salt and small bits 
of butter on each egg. Put into the oven and bake 
until the whites are set. — Mrs. Griggs. 

Breakfast Dish. 

Freshen a small quantity of dried beef by pouring- 
cold water over it in a skillet and letting it come to a 
boil. Pour off the water and add a small tablespoon 
of butter. To this add six eggs, sligthly beaten, and 
one-half cup of milk. Stir lightly and it will be ready 



IB BREAKFAST DISHES 



for the table in a few minutes. Eat while hot ; whether 
the eggs need salt or not will depend upon the beef. — 
Mrs. W. .1. Bell. 

Raisin Bread. 

Set a sponge in the afternoon, using one yeast cake, 
dissolved in lukewarm water, to one quart of flour. 
When the sponge is light, put it in your bread pan 
with Hour enough for three or four loaves of bread. 
Rub in the Hour one-half pound of lard, or butter if 
preferred, one nutmeg grated. Beat three eggs, make 
a hole in your Hour, add sponge, eggs, two large cups 
of sugar; mix well together, add warm water to work 
as you would ordinary bread, then add two pounds of 
raisins, seeded and cut fine, salt, one pound of currants 
mashed and dried. Knead until the fruit is well mixed, 
and set to rise over night. In the morning mould into 
loaves, set in a warm place to rise, then when light, 
hake. — Mrs. John Paver. 



ESTABLISHED 1877. 



GEO. A. VAN PELT, 

FLOOR AND CEREAL FOODS, 

Store 121 North Delaware Street, 

(One square north of Tomlinson Hall.) 

LARGESr FLOOR AND CEREAL STORE IN THE KIDDLE WEST. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR 

Strictly Fine Brands of Flour. 

The choicest makes of notable Indiana, Ohio, St. Louis and Minneapolis 
Mills. Customers supplied from any mill desired. 

GRAHAM FLOURS, 

Coarsest to finest; newly made and healthful. 

LOCKPORT FINE FLOUR 

of the entire wheat. 

Watertown Gluten and Gluten Flour. 
CORN MEAL, 

Coarse or fine, white or yellow, granulated, pearl and old-fashioned un- 
bolted. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR 

MANUFACTURED CEREALS. 

Any preparation of Wheat, Oats, Rye, Corn or Barley for family use is 
here on sale in its purity and freshness. Samples free. 

Never Failing Kentucky Yeast Cakes. 

Sample free. 

Mail or telephone orders or inquiries will receive prompt and cheerful 
attention. Free delivery. 

GEORGE A. VAN PELT, 

121 N. Delaware Street, 

*»"TeJephone 396. (One square north of Tomlinson Hall.) 

2 



CEREALINE FLAKES 



THE2 



POOD OP POODS, 



Send a two-cent stamp to the Cerealine Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ind. 
for a Cook Book containing over one hundred valuable recipes. 

SCHULMEYER BROS., 

Fancy Grocers, 

« 

148 and 150 St. Mary St. 

SCHUMACHER'S RENOWNED AKRON FLOUR, 

BY BARREL OR SACK. 



MEAT MARKET. 
Fresh Meats of all Kinds. 

DRESSED POULTRY A. SPECIALTY. 
TELEPHONE 739. 



SOUPS. 



"Come, give us a taste of your quality." 

Tapioca Cream Soup. 

One quart stock, two ounces line sago, two yolks of 
eggs, pepper and salt, four teaspoons cream. Put the 
stock in a saucepan. When it boils, add the sago and 
let it boil slowly for twenty minutes. Beat well the 
yolks of eggs and cream. Draw the stock and sago 
from the fire so as to cool slightly, then pour it over 
the yolks and cream. Serve hot. — Mrs Horace E. Smith. 

Mrs. Harrison's Clear Soup. 

Four pounds lean beef, four quarts water, one tea- 
spoon celery seed, two small onions, two small carrots, 
one bunch parsley, six blades mace, sixteen whole cloves, 
whites four eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the 
beef in pieces size of walnut; be sure to remove every 
particle of fat. Pour on the cold water and let boil up 
three times, skimming well each time. Scrape the car- 
rots, stick cloves in onions, and put in soup. Then add 
celery seed, parsley, mace, pepper and salt. Let boil 
until vegetables are tender, then strain through a bag. 
Return to the pot, add the beaten whites of the eggs 
and let boil until the eggs gather to one side. Skim 
again and color by adding a dessert-spoon of burnt 
brown sugar. Strain once more and serve. — Mrs. John 
R. Pearson. 



20 soups. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Put a nice soup hone in three quarts of cold water, 
adding some coarsely chopped cabbage, salt and pepper. 
One hour before serving, add potatoes, onions and a 
turnip. Cut up rather finely half-can of tomatoes and 
can of corn. — Mrs. C. Campbell. 

Cream Tomato Soup. 
Stew half-can or six fresh tomatoes in a cupful ol 
water with their juice. Strain through sieve and put 
hack on tire; add a little soda, then put in milk. Take 
a quart of water and add a pint of boiling milk. Add 
the tomato sauce, tablespoon of butter, salt, pepper, 
and six crackers rolled fine. Let all boil a few mo- 
ments. — Mrs. C. Campbell. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Put a good-sized soup bone on to boil early in the 
morning, in eight quarts of cold water, with a good 
handful of salt. Let come to a boil slowly. Add veg- 
etables chopped fine. One small head cabbage, three 
turnips, six potatoes, one quart tomatoes. Carrots and 
onions, or any other vegetables desired, may be added. 
The soup should boil three or four hours. Add boiling 
water as needed. Pepper to taste. — Mrs. Sarah J. Gill. 

Potato Soup. 

Boil and mash tine, six good-sized potatoes. Add a 
piece of butter size of an egg. Have ready two quarts 
of boiling milk ; pour on the potatoes gradually, stirring 
well. Season well with pepper and salt. — Mrs. Slam. 

Dumplings for Soups. 

1. Stir the yolks of two eggs and a tablespoon of 
butter to a cream. Add a cup of cracker flour and the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Roll into balls 
size of a marble and boil eight to ten minutes.— Mrs. 
Albrecht. 



soups. 21 

2. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, and one- 
fourth cup of milk. Let conic to a boil. Stir in enough 
flour to make a paste. Let it cool ; then add the yolks 
of'two eggs and the whites beaten to a froth. Then 
boil a few minutes. — Mrs. Albrecht. 

Corn Soup. 

Cook a can of corn with a cup of water and three 
stalks of celery, sliced tine, fifteen minutes; then add 
one quart of milk, an ounce of butter, pepper and salt 
to taste ; cook fifteen minutes longer. Beat the yolks 
of two eggs in soup tureen, remove soup from fire and 
pour over eggs. Serve immediately. — Mrs. G. W. Ham- 
ilton. 

Farina Soup. 

To one pint of milk add two ounces of butter, and 
salt to taste. When boiling, stir in enough farina until 
it thickens ; keep stirring until thick mush. When cool 
stir in four eggs. Have soup stock boiling and drop 
into it the farina by the teaspoonful. — Mrs. Molir. 

Lobster Soup. 

Into one quart of milk and one pint of water, drop 
the finely chopped meat of a large lobster. Season 
with butter, salt, and red pepper, and thicken with a 
tablespoon ot flour. Boil ten minutes. — Mrs. Dye. 

Tomato Soup. 

To one can of tomatoes add a little more than a 
quart of cold water. Boil hard between twenty and 
thirty minutes. Rub through a seive as much of the 
pulp as possible. Return to the fire, add one table- 
spoon of butter ; salt and pepper to taste, and one- 
fourth teaspoon of ground cloves. When boiling add 
a small teaspoon of soda, dissolved in hot water; add 



22 soups. 

immediately, one and one-half pints of sweet milk, have 
eight crackers rolled fine, stir through and serve. — Mrs. 
Boicourt. 

Noodles. 

Take three eggs, butter or lard the size of an ^gg, 
three tablespoons of water, pinch of salt, flour to make 
a stiff dough. Roll very thin, let them dry for two 
hours, cut in strips half an inch wide. Cook in chicken 
son] i for a half hour. — Mrs. Elam. 

Amber Soup. 

Put a two-pound beef bone, one chicken and a slice 
of ham on to boil in a gallon of cold water. Boil 
slowly for four hours. Mince and fry one onion in a 
tablespoon of butter, add it to the soup with a sprig 
of parsley, half of a small carrot, three whole cloves, 
pepper and salt. Boil one hour and then strain the 
soup and let stand over night, next day remove the fat 
from the top, take up the jelly carefully, avoiding the 
settlings, and mix with the whites and shells of two 
eggs (to clear it). Boil quickly one minute, skim care- 
fully, strain through a bag until clear. Color by adding 
a tablespoon of caramel. Heat just before serving. — 
Mrs. Izor. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH. 



" Should you lure 
From his dark haunt beneath the tangled roots 
Of pendant trees, the monarch of the brook 
Behooves you then to ply your finest art." 

Baked Fish. 

("lean and wipe dry a fish weighing three pounds, 
rub inside and out with pepper and salt, fill in with 
stuffing made like that for poultry, sew it up and put 
in a hot pan with a little butter, dredge with flour and 
lav hits of butter over the fish. Bake one and one-half 
hours, hasting occasionally. — Mrs. W. H. Dye. 

Cod-fish Balls. 

Take about one pint of salt cod-fish, shredded fine, a 
quart of raw peeled potatoes, cut in halves : put the po- 
tatoes to cook in cold water; when nearly done add the 
fish ; when done drain thoroughly, mash, add a half cup 
of sweet milk, one egg, two tablespoons of butter, a 
little pepper, and salt to taste. Beat all thoroughly with 
a wooden spoon (an iron spoon will turn it dark), drop 
by the spoonful into boiling fat and fry brown, or fry 
in fiat cakes.— Mrs. H. P. Hood. 

Fish— Turbot a La Creme. 

Boil four pounds white fish in salted water until 
tender and pick up fine, all hones being removed. 
Scald one quart of sweet milk with one-fourth pound 



24 FISH AND SHELL-FISH. 



of butter, thicken with flour until like cream, add pep- 
per and salt with parsle}' or celery tips chopped tine. 
Place in pudding dish, layers of tish and sauce alternat- 
ing: cover the top with rolled crackers and brown half 
an hour. This is sufficient for twelve persons. — Mrs. 

McCulloch. 

Cod-fish Balls. 

Take a piece of cod-fish, wash the salt off, then pick 
into small pieces. Pare your potatoes, and cut into 
quarters; if large, into eighths. To one pint of cod- 
fish, add one quart of cut potatoes; put them in a ket- 
tle, potatoes first, cod-fish on top, witli nearly a kettleful 
of boiling water. Let it boil until the potatoes are 
done, then drain the water off, mash and beat them 
with a wire potato masher; add a heaping tablespoon 
of butter, two well-beaten eggs, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Form into balls. Set a wire basket in hot 
lard some time before using to prevent sticking. Put 
balls into basket, and when brown turn out on light 
brown paper. — Mrs. Edgar A. Brown. 

Baked Fish. 

(Mean, rinse and dry the tish; rub inside and out 
with salt and pepper; fill with a dressing made like 
that for poultry, but drier; place in the pan and dredge 
with Hour, and lay over it some bits of butter; add 
water, and bake about an hour and a half, basting oc- 
casionally. ( Tarnish with hard boiled eggs, and serve 
with the following sauce: two eggs beaten with half 
teaspoon of mustard, butter the size of a walnut, pinch 
of salt and pepper, teaspoon of flour, teaspoon of sugar, 
and half cup of vinegar. Let it come to a good boil, 
stirring all the time. — Alice James. 

Oysters— Pan Roast. 

The oysters must be drained and bits of shell re- 
moved; then put into a hot pan containing one table- 



FISH AND SHELL-FISH. 25 

spoon of butter, half a teaspoon of salt, one-fourth 
teaspoon of pepper, one quart of oysters. Cook over 
a brisk tire until the edges of the oysters curl, which 
will he in five minutes. Serve with or without toast. 
—Mrs. McCullough. 

Baked Salmon, with Potato Stuffing. 

Prepare fish as for baking, stuff with potato, chopped 

onion, salt, pepper and butter. Sew together, sprinkle 
fish with pepper, salt, Hour and bits of butter. Baste 
frequently until done. — Mrs. Mohr. 

Fried Oysters. 

To one quart of bulk oysters allow three-fourths 
quart of tine cracker crumbs. Season the crumbs with 
salt and pepper. Drop one of the largest or two or 
three of the small oysters on the crumbs, add a tea- 
spoon of the liquor. Take these in the hand, with 
plenty of the crumbs, press firmly and turn gently. 
keeping plenty of dry crumbs in the hand, until it is 
moulded about the size and shape of an egg. 

Drop in hot fat sufficient to cover. Remove as soon 
as they become a light brown and place on a paper in 
the open oven. Fry as soon as prepared. — Mrs. H. H. 

Fay. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

To one quart of oysters take two-thirds of a teacup 
of butter and the same of Hour, rub the Hour and but- 
ter to cream and stir with one [tint of boiling milk. 
Stir the oysters in the sauce while boiling hot, season 
with salt and pepper, cover with rolled crackers, place 
in oven and bake. — Mrs. Gf-eo. Hamilton. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Drain the oysters from the liquor, butter the bottom 
and sides of a deep dish. Place in the bottom a layer 



2tf FISH AND SHELL-FISH. 

of bread crumbs, then a layer of oysters, bits of butter 
strewed over them, a little salt and pepper. Alternate 
layers until the dish is full, having bread crumbs and 
butter on top. Bake half an hour. — Carru S. Porter. 

Creamed Cod-fish. 

Pick into very fine shreds one pint cod-fish, cover 
with cold water, let come to the boil, then drain off. 
To the fish add one quart milk, season with butter and 
pepper and thicken with flour enough to make a thick 
gravy. Just before serving remove from fire and beat 
an eg£ thoroughly through it. — Mrs. Geo. Hamilton. 



MEATS. 



" Tendernes-s is a virtue." 
" A joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William 

cook." 

Beef a La Mode. 

Take four pounds of beef, either a round or a chuck 
roast, rub well with salt and pepper, place in a deep 
dish. Cover with equal parts of vinegar and water, 
and place in and around three or four slices of onion 
and lemon and three cloves. Cover close, keeping it 
in this three or four days, turning the meat each morn- 
ing. Cook it as you would a pot roast. This is also 
good cold. — Mrs. Paver. 

Meat Patties. 

Cut squares out of good puff paste ; till with chopped 
meat, veal and pork, onions, parsley, lemon, sardines, 
and a little suet, all of which has been stewed in but- 
ter; then turn over corner to corner; brush over with 
egg and bake. — Emma, Mohr. 

Sausage Balls. 

To one and one-half pounds of fresh sausage meat 
add two eggs, and beat until light. Add three table- 
spoons of fine corn meal, beat hard and drop from a 
spoon into a skillet of very hot lard. — Mrs. Boicourt. 



28 MEATS. 

Beef Loaf. 

Three pounds round steak, chopped line, four butter 
crackers rolled fine, two eggs, one-half cup butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. Bake an hour. — Mrs. A. J. 
McConney. 

Escalloped Chicken. 

Take a young chicken, cut up as for frying; dip into 
beaten egg and cracker crumbs, salt and pepper, and 
lay into a baking pan. Take one-half cup of butter, 
dissolve with one cup boiling water and pour over the 
chicken. Bake three quarters of an hour to a light 
brown, basting often. — Mrs. John Elam. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. 

Pour boiling water over the liver, fry four or five 
slices of bacon ; as soon as the fat cooks from it remove 
the liver from the water, roll in Hour and place in the 
skillet with the bacon. Cook very slowly a long time. 
— Mrs. Geo. Hamilton. 

Beef Rolls. 

Round of beef cut real thin in neat, oblong pieces, a 
small thin slice of breakfast bacon on each piece, roll 
up, tie with thread. Place in a pan on the fire all the 
scraps you have trimmed off your meat, let them fry, 
then remove the scraps and put in your rolls until they 
are brown, when brown take out and place in a sauce 
pan, stir into the grease in the pan a tablespoon of flour 
and a quart of hot water. Strain this over the rolls 
and put them where they will stew gently from an 
hour and a half to two hours. Before serving remove 
the thread from each roll. — Mrs. James Smith. 

Beef Omelette. 

Three pounds of raw beef chopped fine, three eggs, 
two tablespoons of milk. Stir eggs and milk to- 



MEATS. . 29 

gether. Two slices of pork, or one-half cup of butter, 
four crackers rolled fine, one teaspoon of pepper, one 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of sage. Cover with 
buttered cloth and bake two and one-half hours. Baste 
with butter and water. — Mrs. Griggs. 

Beef a La Mode. 

Four or five pounds of the round of fresh beef. Use 
a carving steel to make holes all through the piece, an 
inch or two apart. The piece of meat should be four 
or five inches thick. Cut pieces of pickled pork the 
size of a die square and two inches long, and stick 
them into these holes; then nil) the beef, both sides, 
with pepper, salt, and ground cloves mixed. Have 
heated some fresh lard in your pot, fry a medium sized 
onion in it quite brown. Lay your meat in this and 
pour around it as much boiling water as will almost 
cover it. Have a close lid and stew at least three hours. 
About an hour before it is done pour in two table- 
spoons of tomato catsup or Chili sauce, or a large cup 
of canned tomatoes. One or two carrots, or turnips, or 
both, is considered an improvement by some people. — 
Carrie S. Porter. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

Cut a steak into small pieces, crack the bone, and 
put in a stewpan with water enough to cover. Cook 
until half-done. At the same time parboil a few pota- 
toes in another pot. Line the sides of a pudding-dish 
with a good crust, put in a layer of beef with salt, pep- 
per, and a very little chopped onion; then a layer of 
sliced potatoes with a little butter scattered upon them ; 
and so on, until you have used beef and potatoes. Pour 
over the gravy, which has been thickened with some 
flour. _ Cover with a crust, leaving a slit in the middle. 
Bake half an hour. 



30 • MEATS. 

CRUST FOR MEAT PIES. 

One quart of flour, three tablespoons of lard, two and 
one-half cups milk, one teaspoon of soda wet with hot 
water and stirred with the milk. Sift in the dry flour, 
salt, work lightly and quickly. Do not get it too stiff. 
— Mrs. Paver. 

How to Use Cold Roast Beef. 

1. Take the meat and cut in small pieces. Put the 
gravy that may be left in a pot, add the meat with 
enough water to cover. Make a biscuit dough and, in- 
stead of rolling it out, take small pieces and roll into 
balls, and when the stew is boiling, drop in the balls 
and boil fifteen minutes. 

2. Take cold beef, chop it as fine as possible ; season 
with salt, pepper, chopped onion or nutmeg, and 
chopped parsley; add a slice of bread which has been 
softened in some boiled milk, one well-beaten egg; mix 
well together ; make flat cakes and fry in hot lard. — 
Mrs. Paver. 

Beefsteak Roll. 
Select a nice loin steak, pound it well, season with 
salt and pepper and put small bits of butter over it. 
Begin at one end and roll it together. Tie with string. 
Put in a dripping-pan with a little hot water. Bake 
about three-quarters of an hour. — Mrs. Marshall. 

Beef Loaf. 
Three pounds of raw beef from the " round" chopped 
very fine, one small cup of fine, dry bread crumbs, one 
cup of milk or water, one-fourth cup of butter, one 
tablespoon of pepper, a little sage or thyme. Bake 
in a deep buttered pan (covered) about an hour. It 
will turn out of pan a firm brown loaf, and it is very 
nice, hot or cold. — Mrs. M. Merritt Fay. 



MEATS. 31 

Ham and Eggs. 
Take ham or breakfast bacon, cut very thin into 
small pieces; take nine eggs, break in a bowl, beat 
thoroughly, then add nine spoons of milk ; pour over 
the hot frying ham, sticking your fork here and there 
for the eggs and milk to cook. When done put in a 
hot oven a few minutes before serving. — Mrs. Paver. 

Ham Farce. 

Take all the ham yon have left, cut all from the bone, 
chop it as tine as possible; at the same time parboil 
some potatoes with their jackets on. When the pota- 
toes are boiled and cold enough to handle, take a pud- 
ding dish, butter it and slice in a layer of potatoes with 
a very little salt ( as your ham is salty ), add pepper and 
it one likes, a little chopped onions; then add a layer of 
ham. and again potatoes, so on until your ham is used; 
let the last layer be potatoes; take an egg, beat in a 
cup, fill with milk, pour over the farce; place a pan 
over it and bake in the oven a few minutes before serv- 
ing: take off the lid and let the potatoes brown. A 
balf an hour will answer for baking. — Mrs. Paver. 

Veal Loaf. 
Three pounds uncooked veal, quarter pound salt 
pork (less will answer if butter is used). Chop fine, 
mix with three eggs, four Boston crackers powdered, 
one and one-half teaspoons of salt, two of pepper, one 
grated lemon, half teacup catsup; press hard in a pud- 
ding dish and bake two hours ; slice thin and serve cold. 
— Mrs. (jri ( nstreet. 

Veal Loaf. 
Four pounds veal, one-half pound sausage, or pickled 
pork, one cup bread crumbs, one-fourth teaspoon 
Cayenne, one-fourth thyme, one-fourth savory, one- 
fourtli marjoram: mix together with three eggs: add 
butter if desired. — Mrs. A. J. McConney. 



32 MEATS. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds veal or lamb, one-fourth pound salt 
pork chopped fine, two eggs, one teacup of powdered 
crackers, one teaspoon of sage, two teaspoons of pep- 
per, three teaspoons of salt; make up in a loaf and 
hake in oven slowly about two hours. — Mrs. A. Blitz. 

Calf Head and Ham. 

Boil a calf head the day before. Preserve liquor. 
('hop the meat, season with salt, pepper and juice of a 
lemon. Prepare half as much ham, also chopped tine. 
Putter a pudding dish, lav in the bottom a layer of 
chopped veal, then a layer of ham. Moisten each layer 
with the liquor of the calf head, using a vrry little. 
When your dish is tilled, pour over more liquor, and 
when it has soaked into the mixture, put a lid over it 
and bake one hour. When done, turn this out. This 
is a good dish to serve void for lunch or supper, with 
salads. — Mrs. Paver. 

Baked Ham. 

Take a good salt ham and soak it all night. Make a 
very stiff batter of flour and water. Spread over the 
ham and bake slowly for about six hours. Let the ham 
get perfectly cold before slicing. — Bessie Stratford. 

Fried Calf's Brain. 

Soak several hours in weak brine to extract blood. 
Drain and simmer four minutes in very little boiling 
water. Then drain again. Salt and pepper to suit 
taste. Have ready a beaten egg. Sift grated craekers. 
Dip in egg and then in crackers twice and fry in hot 
butter. Keep closely covered while frying. Nice for 
luncheon. — Mr*. . I Ibrecht. 



MEATS. 33 

Dumplings. 

To each cup of flour used, mix one teaspoon (heap- 
nig) baking powder, moisten with milk until a little 
softer than biscuit dough. Prop a teaspoonful in a 
place in a steamer, place over a kettle of boiling water, 
cover closely and do not raise the lid for twenty min- 
utes, when they will he done. They are excellent- 
served with either chicken or veal, pouring the gravy 
over the dumplings. Use no salt in the dumplings. — 
Mrs. G. W. Hamilton. 

Frizzled Ham and Eggs. 

Take bits of boiled or fried ham, chop fine and place 
in a skillet prepared with butter or beef drippings. 
Take four to six well beaten eggs, pour over ham ; when 
heated through, season well with pepper and salt, stir 
together, cook until brown and turn over without stir- 
ring. — Mrs. Kettenbaeh. 

Veal Cutlet. 

Beat one egg and dip cutlet into it, have ready rolled 
crackers with pepper and salt, dip cutlet into crackers 
and fry a nice brown. Veal should always be thor- 
oughly cooked. — Carrie S. Porter. 

Sour Venison. 

Put venison in vinegar with pepper and onions, let 
it remain two or three days. When preparing, put 
into a deep pan into plenty of butter. When nicely 
browned add the vinegar gradually and when almost 
done add half cup thick sour cream. — Mrs. Emma Mohr. 

Tenderloins. 

Two pounds not split. Cut each one into three 
equal parts. Keep just enough water to cover them 
3 



34 MEATS. 

until they boil tender, add one tablespoon of butter and 
let them boil down and brown, but not scorch. Take 
up the meat, add a little water, and thicken with Hour 
for gravy. — Mrs. Boicourt. 

Poor Man's Turkey. 

Take tenderloins, salt and pepper them, cut or tear 
them lengthwise ; have ready some nice dressing, rill 
the tenderloins, sew them up, and roast in a patent 
roaster, with plenty of butter. Flank steaks may be 
served the same way. Take two steaks, placing the 
dressing between the two steaks ; sew up all around. 
Bake with plenty of butter. — Mrs. Paver. 



VEGETABLES. 



"God Almighty firot planted a garden." 
" Why does the cook spoil the potatoes ? " 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

In a baking dish place a layer of cracker or bread 
crumbs, then a layer of tomatoes, with plenty of but- 
ter, salt and pepper, then cracker crumbs, and so on. 
When the dish is as full as desired pour liquor of to- 
matoes or boiling water over all and bake. — Mrs. 
Purman. 

Corn Pudding. 

Eighteen ears of corn, eight to ten eggs, two quarts 
milk, one spoon of flour or cracker rolled, a little but- 
ter, salt and two spoons of sugar. — Mrs. Griggs. 

Cabbage, with Whipped Cream. 

Cut cabbage fine; whip one pint of cream stiff. If 
vinegar is very sour use one-third water ; a little sugar 
to taste. If wanted very nice, whip the cabbage into 
the cream. Reserve some cream whipped stiff to put 
over the top. — Mrs. 0. S. Runnels. 

Corn Oysters. 

One dozen ears of corn. Cut the kernels through 
the middle and scrape from the cob. One-half cup 
milk, one egg, one-half cup of flour, tablespoon of but- 
ter. Mix well together and fry in little cakes in hot 
lard. Salt and pepper to taste. — Mrs. Griggs. 



3fi VEGETABLES. 



Salted Vegetable Pudding. 

Pick and wash two handfuls of spinach, boil, then 
chop tine and stew with butter, salt and pepper. Soak 
three large rolls, squeeze dry, add a little chopped cold 
meat, chopped onions, parsley. Stir one-eighth pound 
of butter, iive yolks of eggs, and beaten whites, all to- 
gether with spinach and bread ; tie into a buttered 
cloth, boil one hour. Sauce made of butter, flour 
(browned) then thinned with broth ; add one glass of 
white wine, lemon, salt and pepper; garnish with aspar- 
agus or oyster-plant. — Miss Mohr. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

One dozen ears of sweet corn cut with a sharp knife. 
Split each row of kernels and scrape from the cob ; mix 
with two well-beaten eggs, one tablespoon of sugar, one 
tablespoon of butter, a little salt, one pint of sweet 
cream. Bake in a pudding-dish one hour and a half. 
Serve as a vegetable. — Mrs. John B. Elam. 

Potato Dumplings. 

Grate six large cold boiled potatoes; fry small cubes 
<»f stale bread in butter until light brown ; to the grated 
potatoes add the eggs, cubes of bread and salt; flour 
until thick enough to hold together. Shape in good- 
sized round balls with hands rubbed with flour. Put 
these in boiling water fifteen or twenty minutes. Take 
out and strain. Pour over them a brown butter sauce. 
— En i n i a D ith mer. 

Corn Pudding. 

Drain the corn and chop the kernels very line : rub 
together one tablespoon of butter and one of sugar, 
a beaten egg and two cups of milk. Stir the chopped 
corn into this and salt slightly. Bake in a good oven 
one half-hour. — Mrs. Albrecht. 



VEGETABLES. 



Stuffed and Baked Tomatoes. 

From the blossom end of a dozen solid tomatoes, cut 
a thin slice, and with a spoon scoop out the pulp : chop 
a small head of cabbage and a good-sized onion finely, 
mix them with tine bread crumbs and the tomato pulp. 
Reason with pepper, salt, and a cup of sweet cream: 
mix well, fill the tomato shells, and place in a buttered 
baking dish with just enough water to keep from burn- 
ing : drop a small lump of butter in each tomato and 
bake until done.— Mrs. J. C. Walk. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

One quart of beans: wash thoroughly and soak over 
night in plenty of cold water. Drain off, and let boil a 
few minutes, putting them in cold water: drain again 
and put in the crock intended to bake in. Allow ample 
room for them, and add a large tablespoon of molasses 
and a good-sized piece of butter. If pork is relished, 
get one pound in a square piece, slash the rind in small 
squares, after pouring boiling water over it and wash- 
ing thoroughly. Press down among the beans ; cover 
all with boiling water: cover over and bake all day. 
They require rilling up with boiling water several times 
during the baking. — Mrs. Chas. Stone. 

Beets. 

Boil until tender. Peel, cut in dies and add a dress- 
ing of salt, pepper, a teaspoon of sugar, and a cup of 
drawn butter. Some think a little vinegar an improve- 
ment. 

Drawn Butter. 

Into one-half tablespoon of flour rub a small cup ot 
butter ; beat thoroughly, and add a very little salt ; 
then pour on it one-half pint of boiling water, stirring 
constantly. Put in a custard kettle and cook. Do 
not let it boil or it will be oily, and that spoils it. — Mrs. 
E. C. Sewall. 



38 VEGETABLES. 



Baked Beans- 
Soak the beans over night in cold water; in the 
morning pour the water off, and put them on to boil, 
well covered with water. Put in one-fourth of a tea- 
spoon of soda to one quart of beans ; boil about five 
minutes, then drain the water off. Cover the bottom 
of your baking crock with a layer of beans, then put in 
some squares of breakfast bacon and salt ; cover this 
with beans and another layer of bacon, and so on until 
your beans are all in, then put three or four squares of 
bacon on top. Two tablespoons of molasses to one 
quart of beans ; cover well with water. Bake in a 
slow oven, and be careful to keep them filled up while 
I taking. Use a tall crock and cover it while baking. 
The longer they bake the richer they become. Five or 
six hours will bake one quart. — Mrs. John B. Elam. 



SALADS. 



" Nothing is pleasant that is not spiced with variety." 

Salmon Salad. 

One can salmon ; one small head of cabbage, chopped 
very tine; one teacup vinegar; one tablespoon dry 
mustard; one teaspoon salt ; one teaspoon pepper ; two 
tablespoons melted butter ; two eggs; six tablespoons 
milk. Let it scald and pour over cabbage and salmon. 
— Mrs. Emerson, 

Salad Dressing— Without Oil. 

To the yolks of two eggs and the whites of one, add 
three tablespoons vinegar; cook slowly, stirring con- 
stantly until the mixture thickens. Take from the fire, 
add three spoons salt, one teaspoon mustard, one-third 
teaspoon white pepper, stirring well to be sure that it 
is thoroughly mixed. When the dressing has cooled 
add enough cream to double the quantity and beat well 
before serving. — Miss C. McKay. 

Salmon Salad. 

Set a can of salmon in boiling water for two minutes; 
take out of can and put in a deep dish ; pour off the 
juice or oil; sprinkle salt and pepper over it; add a 
few whole cloves ; cover with cold vinegar ; let stand 
all day: take from vinegar and put on platter. 



40 SALAD.S. 



DRESSING. 



Beat the yolks of two raw eggs with the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs, mashed ; add gradually a table- 
spoon of mustard, three of melted butter or salad oil, 
a little salt and pepper, vinegar to taste. Beat a long 
time. Add lemon juice and a little sugar. Pour over 
the salmon and serve. Lettuce is an addition, but not 
necessary. — Mrs. Henri/ Werbe. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil one chicken till tender ; pick meat from the bone 
and cut into small bits. Add equal quantity of celery 
cut same as chicken, yolks of four hard 1 toiled eggs 
mashed tine, one small tablespoon of mustard, one small 
tablespoon of sugar, one small tablespoon- of salad oil 
or melted butter, salt and a little black or red pepper. 
Mix all with vinegar. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. — 
Mrs. Louden. 

Dressing for Slaw. 

Two eggs beaten light, one half tablespoon of salt, 
one-half tablespoon of sugar, one-half teacup of sweet 
milk, one tablespoon of butter, and vinegar enough to 
make it tart. Let it come just to a boil and pour over 
the cabbage. — Mrs. Elam.. 

Celery Salad. 

One small head of cabbage, three bunches ot celery 
chopped very tine. Take one teacup of vinegar, lump 
of butter size of an egg, one teaspoon made mustard, 
one of salt, pinch of Cayenne pepper, one tablespoon 
sugar. Mix these well. Put on the stove until it 
thickens. When cold add two tablespoons of rich 
cream. Pour over the salad. — Mrs. Boicourt. 



SALADS. 41 

Salmon Salad. 

For the dressing, take one cup of vinegar, two tea- 
spoons of sugar, one teaspoon of made mustard, one of 
olive oil or melted butter, pepper and salt to taste, one 
teaspoon of celery seed, or the fresh chopped celery. 
Pick the salmon to shreds with a fork, chop one bunch 
of lettuce and the whites of three hard boiled eggs, and 
mix with the salmon. Rub the yolks tine and mix with 
the dressing. Pour dressing over the salmon and toss 
up until thoroughly mixed. Serve on lettuce leaves. — 

Mrs. Izor. 

Hot Slaw. 

Chop small head of cabbage tine, salt and pepper to 
taste. Take one teaspoon of mustard, one tablespoon 
of sugar, a small lump of butter and one cup of vine- 
gar. Heat this boiling hot and pour over cabbage. — 
Mrs. Charles Campbell. 

Cabbage Salad. 

One egg, two tablespoons of sugar, beaten together; 
add two tablespoons of vinegar, cook until it thickens, 
then let it cool. Add three tablespoons of sour cream. 
Beat all together, then prepare cabbage; salt and pep- 
per, add dressing and stir. — Mrs. I). A. Meyer. 

Salad. 

Thirteen potatoes, boiled just to pierce with fork, cut 
in dice. Eight hard boiled eggs cut tine, eight medium 
sized pickles, chopped tine, two onions, two stalks cel- 
ery, cut tine, two tablespoons of oil, or ham fryings, 
one tablespoon mustard. Sweeten to taste, salt, thin 
with vinegar. — Mrs. J. C. Walk. 

Lettuce Salad. 

After cleaning the lettuce, pick into small pieces and 
place in bowl. Slice over the top hard boiled eggs 



42 SALADS. 

cooked tender. To one well beaten egg add one teaspoon 
mustard, a teaspoon of sugar, enough vinegar and 
water for the salad, then cook, stirring to keep from 
curdling When cool pour over salad. — Mrs. Purman. 

Potatoes and Endive Lettuce. 

Boil potatoes ; when cooled a little, slice ; add sliced 
onion, salt and pepper ; then mix with large spoonful 
of sour cream and vinegar. Wash endive lettuce, cut 
very fine ; wash in warm water and mix well with po- 
tatoes. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. — Miss Mohr. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

One tablespoon of mustard, one of sugar, one-tenth 
teaspoon of Cayenne, one teaspoon of salt, yolks of 
three uncooked eggs, juice of half a lemon, one-fourth 
of a cup of vinegar, one pint of oil and one cup ot 
whipped cream. Beat the yolks and dry ingredients 
until they are very, very light and thick, with either a 
silver or wooden spoon, or, still better, with a Dover 
egg-beater of second size. The bowl in which the 
dressing is made should be set in a pan of iee water 
during the beating. Add a few drops of oil at a time 
until the dressing becomes very thick and rather hard. 
After it has reached this stage the oil can be added 
more rapidly. When it gets so thick that the beater 
turns hard, add a little vinegar. When last of oil 
and vinegar have been added, it should be very thick. 
Now add lemon juice and whipped cream. Place on ice 
for a few hours unless ready to use it. Cream may be 
omitted without injury. — Mrs T. M. Bassett. 

Salad Dressing. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed very tine, one 
teaspoon English mustard, one of salt, }^olks of two 



SALADS. 43 

raw eggs beaten into the other, dessert-spoon sugar ; 
add sweet oil, poured in by small quantities, and beaten 
as long as the mixture continues to thicken, then add 
vinegar till as thin as desired. — Mrs, J. C. Walk. 

Shrimp Salad. 

To a quart of shrimps, cut tine three stalks celery 
and a half cup of chopped blanched almonds ; add the 
above dressing. — Mrs. J. C. Walk. 

Salad Dressing. 

Three tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon butter, one 
teaspoon sugar, one-fourth teaspoon mustard, pepper 
and salt to taste. Heat these ingredients, and while 
warm stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Let it cook 
a few seconds until it thickens, and then add whipped 
cream, beating all the time ; quantity of cream to suit 
mixture. This is excellent for lettuce, hard-boiled eggs 
and eabbaere. — Mrs. W. A. Bell. 



ENTER THE LEADING BUSINESS SCHOOL 



Thorough Edu- 
cation forBusiness 
is the Road to 
Wealth and High 
Position. Ladies 
and gentlemen ed- 
ucated for profita- 
ble employment. 
TheU niversity 
has the facilities it 
advertises, and 
meets the expecta- 
$ tions of its patrons 
the honest ful- 
fillment o! every 
promise Book- 
keeping, Business 
Practice, Short- 
hand. Typewrit- 
ing, Penmanship 
and English thor- 
oughly taught. 
Large faculty. In- 
dividual instruc- 
tion. Expenses 
moderate. 

INDIANAPOLIS BUSINESS UNIVERSITY, 

North Pennsylvania St., opp. Postoffice. Elegant Descriptive Catalogue Free. 

Business men apply to us for Book-keepers, Stenographers, Penmen and Clerks. 
For terms and full intormation call at office, 31 When Block, or address 

HEEB & OSBORN, Proprietors. 

DAY AND NIGHT SCHOOL. OPEN ALL YEAR. ENTER NOW. TELEPHONE 499. 





Elegant New Styles 

IX 

Ladies' Kid and Patent Leather 

LACE AND BUTTON 




TIES AND SLIPPERS. 

Our Soft Common Sense Shoes, for tender feet, will give you 

SOLID COMFORT. 

Also, Misses and Children's for Dress and Party Wear. 

C. FRIEDGEN, 

19 N. Pennsylvania St. 



ENTREES. 



" It is no small commendation to manage a little well." 

Cheese Souffle. 

Two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons of flour, 
molted together; generous half cup of milk, half cup 
grated cheese, yolks of three eggs. Beat all together 
(this can be prepared any time), and when needed beat 
the whites of the eggs, add quickly, and bake in a very 
hot oven. — Mrs. George H<imilt>>n. 

Corn Croquettes. 

To one-half can of corn, add salt, pepper, one table- 
spoon milk or cream, one egg well beaten, and enough 
tine cracker crumbs to just hold mixture together ; drop 
in spoonfuls into boiling lard. Be careful not to get at 
all stiff, or they will be spoiled.— Mrs. E. ( '. Sewall. 

Cheese Straws. 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of Hour, two 
ounces of cheese, grated tine, a dash of salt ; make 
into a thin paste like pie dough ; roll very thin into 
strips an inch wide; bake a light brown. Serve hot or 
cold. — Mrs. Albrecht. 

Cheese Straws. 
Grate a cupful of good rich cheese, add a cupful of 
flour, a pinch of salt and water enough to make a stiff 
dough. Cut in strips and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. 
John B. Etam. 



46 ENTREES. 



Rice and Eggs. 

Spread a layer of cold boiled rice upon a baking 
dish, season with salt and pepper, make little hollows 
in the rice and break an egg into each. Bake four 
minutes. — Mrs. W. H. Dye. 

Tomato Fritters. 

One quart stewed tomatoes, one egg, one teaspoon 
baking powder; stir in Hour to make stiff batter; drop 
a tablespoonful at a time in hot lard. — Mrs. A. J. 
McConney. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One solid pint of finely chopped cooked chicken, one 
tablespoon of salt, half a teaspoon of pepper, one cup- 
ful cream or chicken stock, one tablespoon flour, two 
eggs, one teaspoon of onion juice, one pint of crumbs, 
three tablespoons of butter. Put the cream or stock on 
to boil; mix the flour and butter together and stir into 
the boiling cream, then add the chicken and seasoning ; 
boil for two minutes and add two of the eggs, well 
beaten ; take from the fire and set away to cool ; when 
cold shape and fry. ('hopped parsley may be added. — 
Miss Greenstreet. 

Veal Croquettes. 

One pint cold finely chopped veal, one-half pint bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon milk and one beaten egg. 
Make in cakes and fry. — Laura M. Campbell. 



DESSERTS. 



"The proof of the pudding is in the eating." 

Mince Meat. 

< hie quart of cider, three pints of sugar, one pint of 
molasses ; boil, and add, while boiling, two quarts, or 
four quarts if preferred, of chopped apple, one quart of 
suet and one quart of fruit (raisins and currants) ; add 
two quarts of chopped meat; boil a short time; add 
when nearly cold two tablespoons of cloves, two and a 
half of cinnamon, four nutmegs, salt, citron, candied 
orange or lemon peel. — Mrs. E. 31. Griggs. 

Mince Meat. 

Take three pounds of cooked lean beef, two pounds 
of beef suet, five pounds of apples, two pounds of cur- 
rants, three pounds of raisins, one pound of citron or 
orange peel, four pounds of white sugar, one heaping 
teaspoon each of ground cinnamon, ginger and nut- 
meg, scant half teaspoon each of cloves, mace, and all- 
spice, one level teaspoon of salt, two wine glasses of 
strong brandy, four of sherry, two lemons chopped tine, 
one glass of currant jelly and cider to make the mince 
meat sufficiently juicy. Chop meat, suet and apples as 
tine as possible, removing all skin and gristle from 
meat ; mix spices with sugar and sugar with meat be- 
fore adding other ingredients ; mix all together thor- 
oughly and set over the lire until heated through. — 
Mrs. T. D. Armstrong. 



4* DESSEKTS. 



Cream Pie. 

Make a paste of two heaping teacups flour, one- 
fourth teaspoon of Waking powder, scant cup lard and 
butter mixed, enough ice water to moisten, pinch of 
salt. Line two deep pie tins and bake. 

FILLING. 

One quart milk, two tablespoons of corn starch, two 
of sugar, salt, lemon flavoring. Put the milk into a 
two-quart pail ( reserving enough to mix with the corn 
starch) and set in a kettle of boiling water. When 
scalding, stir in the corn starch, milk and sugar mixed ; 
cook for a few minutes. When partly cool, add salt and 
flavoring and pour into the crusts, dust before serving, 
and when perfectly cold, cover with thick whipped 
cream, flavored to taste. — Emma Laird Kimball. 

Pie-Plant Pie. 

One enp of pie-plant, chopped tine; one cup of su- 
gar, one tablespoon of flour, yolks of two eggs: flavor 
with lemon ; beat the whites and put on top, just as 
you would for lemon pie. — Mrs. Kite McConney. 

Lemon Cream, for Pies or Tarts. 

One cup of sugar ; juice of two lemons ; yolks of four 
eggs, well beaten ; and one tablespoon of butter. Boil 
until it has the consistency of jelly. — Mrs. Edgar A. 
Brown. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

To the yolks of three eggs, add one pint of milk, one 
grated cocoanut; sugar to sweeten; put in crust and 
bake; stir three tablespoons pulverized sugar into the 
beaten whites; spread over pie and bake to a light 
brown. — Miss Aldrich. 



DESSERTS. 41) 



Sweet Potato Pie. 
Boil sweet potatoes until well done, mash and rub 
through a sieve. To a pint of pulp add three pints of 
sweet milk, a tablespoon of melted butter, a teacup of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, yolks of three eggs, and nutmeg 
and lemon to flavor; hake; beat the whites to a froth, 
with a little sugar; spread over the custard, and brown 
lightly.— Mrs. Henry Werbe. 

Lemon Pie. 

To the juice of one lemon, add one tablespoon of but- 
ter, one cup of water, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons 
of corn starch and yolks of two eggs. Put these into 
a pan and cook until a thick paste, stirring often; roll 
out a bottom crust and bake. After filling the crust, 
spread the beaten whites of two eggs, sweetened and 
flavored to taste, over the top. — Miss Mary Tngersoll. 

Lemon Pies. 
Soak eight finely rolled crackers in two cups of boil- 
ing water; separate the whites and yolks of four eggs, 
and beat the yolks witli one cup of granulated or white 
sugar; add a little salt and the juice and rind of one 
lemon. Beat the crackers in the mixture and put in 
pie plates lined with paste to bake. While this is bak- 
ing, beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and 
mix with eight tablespoons of sugar. After the pies 
are baked, spread this on the top and brown in the 
oven. This makes two [ties. — Mrs. Griggs. 

Lemon Pie. 

Grate one lemon to one cup of hot water, two cups 
of sugar, yolks of four eggs, a lump of butter as large 
as a walnut, four tablespoons of flour, stirred smooth 
in cold water. When baked, beat the whites and four 
tablespoons of sugar; spread over and brown. This is 
enough for two pies. — Mrs. Mabel Ehnis. 

4 



50 DESSERTS. 



Plum Pie. 

One cup of plums, two cups of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one egg and the yolks of three others. Use 
the whites, beaten, for the top. This makes two pies. 
— Mrs George Hamilton. 

Lemon Pie. 

One lemon, one egg, one tablespoon of flour, one 
tablespoon of butter, one teacup of sugar, one cup of 
chopped raisins. Beat butter and sugar, add egg, flour, 
lemon, and enough water to till the pie-dish; sprinkle 
raisins over the top. Bake in open crust. — Mrs. W. A. 
Bell. 

Queen's Pudding. 

Soak one pint of bread crumbs in one quart of milk, 
yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, two teaspoons 
of lemon extract, butter the size of an egg. Bake. 
When cool spread with peaches or any kind of canned 
fruit. Cover with the whites of four eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth with one cup of sugar, and one teaspoon of 
lemon extract. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. J. B. Elam. 

Batter Pudding. 

Beat four eggs light in a bowl. Stir in it seven even 
tablespoons of flour; thin with a pint of milk; bake 
in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. Serve 
as soon as done and eat with cream and sugar. — Anna 
Minger. 

Lemon Cream Pudding. 

Four eggs, beaten separately; four tablespoons of 

sugar in the yolks; juice and rind of one lemon: three 
tablespoons of hot water. Put in a pan on the tire and 
stir until thick; then remove from the tire and stir in 
the whites beaten very light. — Mrs. James Smith. 



DESSERT*. 51 



Suet Pudding. 

One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
raisins, one cup of sour milk, two cups of flour and 
one teaspoon of soda. Boil in a pudding mould five 
hours. 

SAUCE FOR THE ABOVE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two eggs, 
beaten together to a cream. Add to this three-fourths 
of a pint of boiling water, stirring briskly. Let it sim- 
mer till it thickens. Flavor with whisky or vanilla. — 
Mrs. Bertha Wade. 

Tapioca Custard Pudding. 

One cup of tapioca, soaked over night in cold water 
enough to cover it: one quart of milk; one cup of 
white sugar powdered; five eggs: half the peel of one 
lemon grated ; and a very little salt. Make a custard of 
the yolks, sugar and milk. Warm the milk slightly in 
a farina-kettle before mixing with the other ingredi- 
ents. Beat this custard into the soaked tapioca: salt: 
whisk the whites of the eo-o- s to a standing froth; stir 
it swiftly and lightly : set the pudding dish (well but- 
tered) into a pan of boiling water, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Brown delicately by setting it for a minute 
on the upper grating of a quick oven. This may be 
eaten warm or cold, with or without sauce. — Bessii 
Graham. 

Fuller Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
one cup of water, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon 
each of ground cloves and cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
of salt, four cups of flour, one-half pound each of 
raisins and figs. Steam three hours and serve with 
sauce. — Mrs. J IT Goodhart. 



52 DESSERTS. 



Scotch Pudding. 

Put a layer of fruit about one inch thick in a kettle 
that can be tightly covered for steaming. If dried fruit 
is used, it should he partially cooked first. Over the 
fruit pour a batter made of one pint of milk, salt, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, and flour to make a stiff 
hatter. Steam one hour. Eat with hot sauce. — Mrs. 
S. D. Yeaton. 

Pudding. 

Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, two 
ounces of pulverized sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, 
and then stir in the flour and sugar, adding the beaten 
yolks of five eggs, and also the whites, whisked to a 
suow. Flavor with vanilla and thicken with stale 
sponge cake crumbs ; mix all well together and boil our 
hour.— Mrs. ./. C. Walk. 

Pudding. 

One egg, beaten with one spoon of sugar; one cup of 
raisins; and one of currants ; nutmeg; cinnamon and 
allspice to taste; thicken with flour and boil in a bag. 
Serve with sweet sauce. — Mrs J. C Walk. 

New England Baked Indian Pudding. 

Heat to boiling three pints of milk and stir in corn 
meal as if for mush, making rather a thin hatter. Boil 
five minutes and remove from the fire; add one cup 
molasses, one pint of cold milk, three or four sliced 
sweet apples, and cinnamon, and salt to taste. Serve 
hot or cold, with or without sauce. — Mrs. S. D. Yeaton. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, two and one-half tablespoons of 
butter, one egg, one cup of sweet milk, one pint of 



DESSERTS. 53 



flour, and two tablespoons of baking powder. Flavor to 
suit. To be eaten with liquid sauce. — Mrs. Charles 
Lewis. 

Rice Pudding Without Eggs. 

One cup of rice, one of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one cup of raisins, two quarts of milk, nutmeg. Let 
stand on a warm stove two hours. Bake one hour. — 
Carrie S. Porter. 

English Plum Pudding. 

One pound of beef suet : one pound of raisins, stoned : 
one pound of currants: one-half pound of citron chop- 
ped fine: three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar; 
eight eggs beaten light: one teaspoon of salt; one nut- 
meg, grated; one teaspoon of cinnamon: one teaspoon 
of cloves and allspice, mixed : rind and piece of one 
lemon; two wine glasses of wine and brandy, mixed 
(the wine can be omitted); two loaves of stale bread, 
grated. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly; put the 
pudding in a mould, cover securely ; put the mould 
into a pot of boiling water and boil steadily for four 
hours. Serve with sauce. — Carrie Porter. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

One cup of sugar and one-half cup of butter mixed 
to a cream, one cup of sweet milk; put into a sauce- 
pan to boil. Wet a tablespoon of corn starch in a 
little sweet milk and put into the boiling milk. When 
it thickens, pour it on the sugar and butter, stirring 
constantly. Flavor with two tablespoons of brandy. — 
Mrs. Runnells. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 

One pound of suet cut in pieces, one pound currants, 
one pound seeded raisins, four eggs, one ounce citron, 



54 DESSERTS. 

one ounce candied lemon peel, one-half grated nutmeg - , 
one teaspoon of beaten ginger, one-half pound bread 
crumbs, one-half pound flour, one pint milk. Beat the 
eggs, add half the milk, beat thoroughly, and gradually 
add the other ingredients, using enough of the remain- 
ing milk to thin to proper consistency. Take a clean 
muslin bag, dip in boiling water and squeeze dry, till 
with pudding. Drop the pudding into a pot of boiling 
water. It should boil at least five hours. — Mrs. Sarah 

./. Gill 

Snow Pudding. 

To one pint ot boiling water add three tablespoons 
of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold water: and the 
whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Tut in a 
buttered basin and steam ten minutes. — Mis.. John Chip- 
man. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of Orleans molasses, one egg beaten Light. 
Beat egg and molasses together. One cup of currants; 
one cup of sweet milk; two-thirds of a cup of suet, 
chopped tine; one small teaspoon of salt; one small 
teaspoon of soda; one teaspoon allspice; one teaspoon 
of cinnamon ; flour enough to make a dough as for cake. 
Steam two and a half or three hours. — Mrs. Runnels. 

Puff Pudding. 

Three and one half cups flour, three teaspoons ot 
baking powder, one cup sweet milk, one tablespoon 
sugar, a pinch of salt. Mix baking powder and flour, 
stir'into the milk, adding sugar and salt. It should be 
a stiff batter. Stir in last some fruit well dredged with 
flour. Steam one hour. 

SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one pint boil- 
ing water. Stir flour with sugar before adding the hot 
water. Flavor to taste.— 31. L. M. 



DESSERTS. 55 



Oranged Strawberries. 

Place-layers of strawberries and sugar alternately in 
a dish. To each quart of berries used add the juice of 
three oranges. Let stand on ice sometime before using. 

— Miss A hi rich. 

Fig Pudding. 

One-half pound of tigs, chopped line; one cup of 
cracker crumbs ; one cup of suet, chopped fine ; one cup 
of sugar; one cup of milk. Stir well, wrap in cloth, 
and steam two hours and serve with brandy sauce. — 
Mrs. Edgar A. Brown. 

Steamed Roiy Poly. 

Roll biscuit dough thin and spread with preserves or 
fruit (when fresh fruit is used sprinkle with sugar), roll 
it tight and sew in a cloth, leaving room to swell ; boil 
or steam one hour. Serve with brandy sauce. — Mrs. J. 
H. Goodhart. 

Pop-overs. 

Four eggs, four cups of flour, four cups of milk, a 
small piece of butter and some salt. Bake in cups, 
serve immediately with butter and sugar sauce. — Mrs. 
J<>* (1>1< Moore. 

John's Delight. 

Two cups of chopped bread, one-half cup of chopped 

suet, one-half cup of molasses, one egg, one cup of 
raisins, one cup of sweet milk with one-half teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in it, one-half teaspoon of cloves, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, a pinch of mace and salt. Boil 
two hours in a tin pudding-boiler and eat with foaming 
sauce. — Mrs. Janus Smith. 



56 DESSERTS. 



Snow Pudding. 

One-third box of gelatine, juice of three lemons, one- 
half cup of cold water. Let stand one hour. When 
the gelatine is dissolved add one pint of cold water, 
one-half cup of sugar. Strain, and whip until white as 
snow, then add the whites of three eggs, beaten very 
light. — Mrs. James Smith. 

Banana Salad. 

Cut the bananas lengthwise as thick as a dollar; pile 
on a plate so as to leave a hollow center; put on ice; 
make a syrup of one cup of granulated sugar (moisten 
just enough to cook); add the juice of one lemon; 
when cold pour over the fruit: pile whipped cream in 
the center and serve ice cold. — Mrs. Tzor. 

Strawberry Sherbet. 

One quart of strawberries, three pints of water, one 
lemon (the juice only), one tablespoon orange-flower 
water, three-fourths' pound of white sugar. The straw- 
berries should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a smooth 
paste: add the rest of the ingredients (except the sugar) 
and let it stand three hours: strain over the sugar, 
squeezing the cloth hard: stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved : strain again and set on ice for two hours or 
more before using. — Mrs. Izor. 

Lemon Soup. 

One-half cup of sago cooked in water until soft. Let 
one quart of milk come to a boil, having flavored 
with bits of stick cinnamon. A tablespoon of sugar; 
one-half teaspoon of salt; yolks of four eggs, well 
beaten, stirred into the milk. Into a soup tureen, place 
a half-dozen lady fingers and one or two lemons sliced. 
Pour over the hot milk mixed with the sago. Spread 



DESSERTS. 57 



on the top the whites of the eggs beaten very light 
with a teaspoon of sugar. Serve while hot. — Mrs. Ida 
Blank. 

Coffee Jelly. 

One pint of sugar, one pint of strong coffee, one and 
one-half pints of boiling water, one box of gelatine. 
Dissolve gelatine in water, then add the boiling water, 
sugar, and coffee. Strain twice, pour into moulds. 
When used serve with cream and sugar. — Mrs. Georgt 
Stacy. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Make a lemonade by using four lemons to a pint of 
water sweetened to taste: strain through a cloth and 
add one-half box of gelatine, after having dissolved it 
in cold water: strain again: then pour into moulds and 
place on ice until perfectly congealed. Serve with 
whipped cream.— Mrs. Qeorqe Stacy. 

Pineapple Jelly. 

A pint and a half can of pineapple, scant pint of 
sugar, white and shell of egg, box of gelatine, juice of 
one lemon, one quart of boiling water, one-half pint of 
cold water. Cut pineapple in fine pieces. Put this 
with the boiling water and simmer gently twenty min- 
utes. Soak gelatine in cold water for two hours. Add 
pineapple, sugar, lemon, pineapple juice, white and 
shell <»f egg to flic boiling mixture. Let this boil up 
once and set back for twenty minutes where it will 
keep hot. but not boil. Strain through napkin, turn 
into molds and set away to harden. — Mrs. T. M. Bassett. 

Jelly Sauce. 

To one cup of boiling water add two tablespoons of 

sugar and two tablespoons of currant jelly. Stir into 



58 DESSERTS. 

this one-half teaspoon of corn starch dissolved in one- 
half cnp of water. Let boil and it will be ready for 
nse. Any other jelly may be used. — Emma Dithmer. 

Apple Snow. 

Sift steamed apples to make one pint of pulp. Beat 
the whites of three eggs stiff and stir together. To every 
tablespoon of apple use one teaspoon of sugar. Beat 
the whole stiff. Keep cold and serve with cream. — 
Miss Anna Griffith. 

Orange Pudding. 

Peel, slice and seed four large oranges into a dish and 
sprinkle powdered sugar over them. Make custard of 
the yolks of six eggs and three gills of sweet milk. 
When cold pour this over the oranges. Beat the whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth and add a tablespoon of sugar. 
Spread over the pudding and put in oven and brown 
slightly.— Mrs. A. ('. Moore. 

Ambrosia. 

Beat the whites of three eggs, adding a cup of pow- 
dered sugar slowly. Have prepared three large sweet 
oranges, peeled and sliced smoothly ; six ripe bananas. 
sliced. Lay in the bottom of a dish a layer of bananas 
and oranges, covering them with the beaten egg. Al- 
ternate them until all are used, having the whites on 
top. Strawberries may be used. — Mrs. Geo. Boss. 

Rice Balls. 

( hie [»int of boiling milk, yolks of three eggs, beaten ; 
one-half cup of sugar; one tablespoon of corn starch. 
I 'our the custard over rice formed into balls. — Mrs. W. 
H. Dye. 



DESSERTS. 59 



Lemon Toast. 



Beat thoroughly yolks of three eggs, add one and 
one-half cups sweet milk, dip slices of bread into the 
mixture and fry to a light brown. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a froth, add one-half cup of sugar, juice of 
one lemon, and a cup of water. Bring to a boil and 
serve with toast as sance. — Mrs. W. H. Dye. 

Lemon Sauce. 

One-half cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of butter, one 
heaping teaspoon of corn starch, one egg, one pint of 
boiling water. Let it come to a boil and add one lemon, 
squeezed and sliced. — Mrs. Minnie Merritt Fay. 

Fruit Meringue. 

Dissolve two tablespoons corn starch in milk, and 
add it to one quart of boiling milk. Remove from tire, 
add one tablespoon of butter, and let cool. Beat in the 
yolks of three eggs until the mixture becomes creamy, 
add one-half clip powdered sugar. Place in the bottom 
of a pudding dish peaches paired and halved. Pour the 
custard over them and bake one-half hour; spread with 
the beaten whites, well sweetened. ( Other fruits may 
be used ).—Mrs. W. Dye. 

Corn Starch and Chocolate Pudding. 

Boil three cups of milk ; when boiling add one-half 
cup of sugar and two heaping tablespoons of corn 
starch, dissolved in a little cold milk; and lastly the 
beaten whites of three eggs. Flavor with vanilla; take 
out one third of this and add one-half cup of grated 
chocolate; put a layer of half of the white pudding 
into a mold; then the chocolate; then the rest of the 
white. 



HO DESSERTS. 



SAUCE FOR THE ABOVE. 

Boil one pint of milk. Sugar to sweeten and the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir until it thickens, flavor 
with vanilla, set to cool. — Emma Dithmer. 

Wine Cream. 

Two pints of wine, yolks of six eggs, the juice of 
two lemons, two tablespoons of corn starch. Put all 
on the tire and stir until it boils. Sweeten to taste. — 
Mrs. Edgar A. Brown. 

Rice Pudding with Apples. 

One-half pound rice covered with boiling water, and 
let stand one-fourth hour. Pour off water. Cook 
slowly over steam until soft, in three pints of milk. 
Let stand until cold. Season with one-half teaspoon 
cianamon, the grated rind of half a lemon. To this 
add six spoons each of butter and sugar, with the yolks 
of six eggs beaten to a cream. Take six apples, pare, 
cut in sliees, and cook slowly in half cup of water. 
Season with two ounces of butter, half teaspoon of 
cinnamon, a little sugar. Let stand until cold. Grease 
pudding dish, till with alternate layers of rice mixture 
and apples. Bake a light brown. Add the white of 
beaten egg before serving. — Mrs. Ida Blank. 

Black John. 

One cup of molasses, two-thirds of a cup brown 
sugar, one cup of flour, two tablespoons of melted but- 
ter, four eggs, one small teaspoon of soda. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

SAUCE. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, and add hot 
water. Flavor with nutmeg and very little cinnamon. — 
Mrs. Monis Albrecht. 



DESSERTS. HI 



Apple Tapioca. 

Soak a large cup of tapioca over night in a pint of 
water. In the morning add a cup of sugar, a little salt, 
one cup of cream. Mix and pour over six large green- 
ing apples, which have been peeled and cored, and the 
cavities rilled with sugar and lemon. Grate some nut- 
meg over the top and hake one hour. Serve with 
sweetened or whipped cream. — Mrs. John Chipman. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One pint of stiff, whipped cream; whites of two eggs. 
Dissolve two tablespoons of gelatine in one-half teacup 
of warm milk. Mix altogether, and add a cup of pul- 
verized sugar. Take lady lingers or sliced sponge cake 
and line a pudding dish ; pour the mixture in and set 
on ice over night. — Mrs.. Joseph Moore. 

Spanish Cream. 

One quart of milk, one pinch of salt, one-half box oi 
gelatine. Soak the gelatine in milk an hour before using. 
Set it on the stove till it boils, stirring all the time. 
Add the yolks of three eggs beaten with a tablespoon 
of sugar. Lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Flavor to suit taste. — Mrs. George Stacy. 

Moonshine. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a very stiff froth, and 
add gradually six or seven tablespoons of powdered 
sugar. Beat thirty minutes. Out up two heaping. table- 
spoons of preserved peaches or quinces into tiny bits 
and mix in. Set on the ice until thoroughly chilled. 
In serving, pour in each saucer cream that has been 
standing on the ice. Sweeten and flavor with vanilla. 
—Mrs. J. B, Roberts. 



62 DESSERTS. 



Snow Pudding. 

Soak two tablespoons of tapioca in water over night. 
Beat together one quart of milk, the yolks of three 
eggs, one cup of sugar and the tapioca. Boil in the 
milk until thickened, flavor. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and add to the pudding while hot. Serve when 
col d . — Mi 'S . Syl r ester. 

Hard Sauce for Puddings. 

Cream, two cups sugar, half cup of butter, and one 
egg. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. Kate McConney. 

Sauce. 

Two tablespoons butter, six tablespoons of pulver- 
ized sugar, white of one egg beaten stiff. Flavor to 
taste.— Mrs. Louden. 

Hard Sauce. 

One and one-half cups of sugar (pulverized), one- 
half cup of butter, one egg, and flavor to taste. — Mrs. 
Edioin Rill. 

Foaming Sauce. 

Heat one-half cup of butter to a cream, add one cup 
of granulated sugar, and stir until it is white and foam- 
ing. Just before serving, pour on it one cup of boiling 
water and stir a moment. — Mrs. Janus Smith. 




andDELICIOUS 




XTRACTS. 



J$T PERFECT MADE. 

Used by the United States Government. Endorsed by the heads of the Great Uni- 
versities and Public Food Analysts, as the Strongest, Purest and most Healthful. 
Dr. Price's Cream Baking Powder does not contain Ammonia, Lime or Alum. Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts, Vanilla, Lemon, Orange, Almond, Kose, etc , 
do not contain Poisonous Oils or Chemicals. 

PRICE BAKING POWDER CO., New York. Chicago. St. Louis 



CAKES. 



"The bearings of these observations lays in the application on em." 
Fruit Cake. 

Six eggs, one and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one 
and one-fourth pounds flour, one and one-half pounds 
currants, one and one-half pounds raisins, one pound 
citron or figs, two-thirds cup of molasses, two-thirds 
cup of brandy, one teaspoon of lemon or vanilla, two 
teaspoons of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, and 
teaspoon of soda. Add one tea-cup of flour. — Mrs. 
( 'has. Lewis. 

Fruit Cake. 

Six cups of brown sugar, three and half cups of but- 
ter, sixteen cups of flour, three cups of molasses, six 
pounds of raisins (seedless), three pounds of currants, 
two tablespoons of cloves, three of mace and three of 
allspice, four grated nutmegs, twelve eggs, two table- 
spoons of soda, even full, one and a half pints of good 
brandy, one and a half pounds of citron. Measure in 
coffee cup. This makes three large cakes. Cream the 
butter, then add the sugar, then molasses and spices, 
then brandy, then the fruit, well floured with a portion 
of the flour, then add the soda dissolved in a little 
water, and last the whites of the eggs. Bake at least 
four hours in <i very moderate oven, if in large loaves, 
small loaves a shorter time. Do not forget paper in 
pans. — Mrs. E<l<i<n- A. Brown. 



CAKES. 65 



White Fruit Cake. 



One and one-half pounds of butter, one and one- 
half pounds of sugar, one and five-eighths pounds of 
flour, eighteen eggs, one and one-half glasses of brandy, 
one small tablespoon of soda, two pounds of currants, 
two pounds of raisins, (seedless), one-half pound of 
citron, one-half pound of almonds chopped. Dredge 
the fruit well with flour and add last. — Mrs. Horace E. 
Smith. 

Fruit Cake. 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups of 
molasses, two cups of sour milk, two teaspoons oi 
soda, eight cups of flour, two teaspoons of cloves, two 
teaspoons of cinnamon, two nutmegs, one-half pound 
of citron, one pound of currants, two pounds of raisins. 
— Mrs. Davis. 

Fruit Cake. 

( hie pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-fourths 
pound of butter, two pounds of currants, two pounds 
of stoned raisins, four ounces of citron, ten eggs, a 
wine-glass of brandy, one-fourth ounce of mace, one- 
half pint of West India molasses, three teaspoons 
of baking powder, one half pound of bitter almonds. 
Blanch and chop the almonds. Bake four hours — Mrs. 
Sarah J. GW. 

Pork Cake. 

One pound of salt pork chopped tine, two-thirds of 
a pint of boiling water poured over the pork, and let 
stand till cold, one and one-half pounds of raisins, 
chopped, one pound of citron, a few figs, three large 
cups of brown sugar, two cups of molasses, ten cups of 
flour, three teaspoons of soda, one tablespoon of cloves, 
one tablespoon of cinnamon, two nutmegs. — Mrs. C. S. 
Money. 

5 



66 CAKES. 

Vanity Cake. 
One and a half cups of sugar, half cup of butter, 
half cup sweet milk, one and a half cups Hour, half 
cup of corn starch, teaspoon of baking powder, whites 
of six eggs. Bake in two, layers. Put together with 
frosting. — Mrs. Kettenbach. 

White Fruit Cake. 

Whites of sixteen eggs, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of butter, one pound of flour, one teaspoon of 
extract of bitter almonds, one pound of blanched al- 
monds, (sweet), one pound of citron, cut fine, one co- 
coanut grated fine. Pound the almonds in a mortar 
with a little rose water to prevent oiling. Beat eggs 
until quite stiff, cream the butter. Add alternately 
sugar, eggs and flour, reserving a little flour for fruit. 
Stir in fruit last, flavor with rose, vanilla or almond. — 
Mrs. W. W. Catlin. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of butter, one cup of strong coffee, one egg or yolks 
of two, four even cups of flour, one heaping teaspoon 
of soda in flour, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, two pounds of raisins, one-fourth 
pound of citron. Soften the butter, beat with sugar; 
add the egg, spice, molasses and -coffee, then the flour, 
and lastly the fruit, dredged with a little flour. Bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

Coffee Cake. 

Take one yeast cake, one and one-half pints of 
milk lukewarm, with enough flour to make a thick 
sponge. Beat it until it will beat into bubbles, and 
set it to rise. When very light add one large hand- 
ful of sugar, salt, a little grated nutmeg or grated 



CAKES. 67 

lemon peel, two large tablespoons of butter, melted, 
or one of butter and one of lard, one egg beaten well, 
and enough flour to make the dough so stiff' that 
you can scarcely beat it with your wooden ladle. Beat 
it well and long, until large bubbles form in the dough. 
Have pans well greased, put in the dough an inch thick, 
and set it in a warm place to rise. When light spread 
over the top some melted butter, and strew thickly over 
this some powdered sugar-, put in the oven and bake. 
This is nice fresh with coffee or chocolate. — Mrs. Paver. 

Caramel Cake. 

One and a half eups of granulated sugar, three cups 
of flour, three eggs beaten in one at a time — beat each 
one well— one-half cup of butter, one cup of water, 
three teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in three 
thick layers. 

FILLING. 

Two and one-half cups of light brown sugar, two- 
thirds of a cup of cream or milk. If milk is used, use 
a small tablespoon of butter thoroughly dissolved. 
Boil until a thick syrup, stirring all the time to keep 
from burning. Stir until eold enough to spread on 
eake. When eold stir in a tablespoon of vanilla. — Mrs. 
K. T. Griffith. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of butter, one pound of raisins, one- 
half pound of citron, one pound of almonds, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one and one-half tablespoons 
of brandy, whites of twelve eggs. — Mrs. Sylvester. 

Spice Cake. 

Two cups of brown sugar, three cups of flour, one- 
half cup of butter, one cup sour cream, one wine glass 



68 CAKES. 

of wine or water, yolks of five eggs, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cloves, two teaspoons allspice, three tea- 
spoons cinnamon, three teaspoons ginger, one nutmeg. 
Bake in layers with icing between. — Mrs. A. J. McCon- 
ney. 

Black Fruit Cake. 

One pound browned flour, one pound sugar, two 
pounds raisins, one pound citron, one pound currants, 
ten eggs, three-fourths cup of molasses, three-fourths 
pound of butter, two teaspoons baking powder, one- 
half teaspoon of all kinds of spice. — Mrs. Sylvester. 

Yellow-stone Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one-half cup of sweet milk, three eggs, two heaping 
cups of Hour, and two teaspoons of baking powder. 

PILLING. 

One teacup of pulverized sugar, add a little water, 
and boil till brittle. While hot stir in beaten white of 
one egg, one cup of seeded raisins, chopped tine, and 
one cup of walnut meats, chopped tine. Flavor. — Mrs. 
Marshall. 

Quick Cake. 

Whites of six eggs, one cup of milk, two cups of 
granulated sugar, one-fourth cup of butter, three cups 
of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. Add beaten 
whites last.— Mrs. H. B. Burnett. 

White Cake. 

Two cups of white sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, three cups 
of flour, whites of eight eggs, thoroughly beaten, two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. 
Purman. 



CAKES. 69 

Plain White Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, whites of four eggs, one-half cup of milk ( or 
water), two and one-half cups of sifted flour, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Flavor to taste. This also 
makes two nice layers, if perferred. 

FILLING. 

One cup of sugar and one-third cup of water, boiled 
as for candy : when done, stir in the yolks of four well- 
beaten eggs and four tablespoons of Baker's chocolate. 
—Mrs. Edwin Hill. 

Sponge Cake. 

Two cups of pulverized sugar, six eggs, grated rind 
of one lemon, two small cups of flour, one small 
Teaspoon of baking powder. Stir yolks of eggs and su- 
gar to a cream, add the beaten whites and lemon, 
lastly, flour and baking powder. Mix lightly and bake 
slowly. — Mrs. Henry Werbe. 

Sponge Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, Ave eggs, two cups of flour, one- 
half cup of water, one teaspoon of baking powder. 
Flavor to taste. — Mrs. Charles Lewis. 

Sponge Cake. 

Beat three eggs four minutes; add one and one-half 
cups of sugar, beat one minute; add one and one-half 
cups of flour, beat five minutes ; add one-half teaspoon 
soda, dissolved in one-half cup cold water; lastly, add 
one cup of flour with one teaspoon cream tartar. 

Sponge Cake No. 2. 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, two 
teaspoons of baking powder. Beat eggs thoroughly, 



<0 CAKES. 

then add sugar, beat again; next add all of the flour, 
with the baking powder sifted iji. The mixture then 
is very stiff. Have oven all ready, then stir in one-half 
cup of boiling water and bake at once, but not too 
lively. Flavor as you please. — Mrs. C. Stone. 

Caramel Cake. 

One quarter cup of butter, three eggs, one cup of su- 
gar, two cups of flour, one and a half teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, one and one-half cups of milk. Flavor to 
suit taste. 

FILLING. 

One pint of brown sugar, one-half cup of milk or 
water, one-half cup of Baker's chocolate. Boil until 
thick. — Mrs. Joseph Moore. 

Silver Cake. 

Whites of eight eggs, two cups of powdered sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, three-quarters of a cup of milk, 
three cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. 
Flavor with vanilla. Bake one hour. — Mrs. T. D. Arm- 
strong. 

Loaf Fig Cake. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of water, three and one-half cups of flour, yolks of 
three eggs, two cups of chopped raisins, one pound of 
chopped tigs, two and one-half teaspoons of baking 
powder . — Mrs. Louden. 

FILLING FOR FIG CAKE. 

No. 1. One fourth pound of figs, chopped fine, seven 
tablespoons of sugar, oiie-half cup of water ; boil until 
jellied. 

Xo. 2. One-half pound of figs, chopped and cooked 
with good half tumbler of currant jelly till smooth. 



CAKES. 71 

Add more sugar if not sweet enough, and add a little 
hot water if too thick to spread easily. — Mrs. Georgt 
Hamilton. 

Pink and White Cake. 

Make any kind of white cake. Take half of the 
dough and add the pink powder. Place the pink and 
white dough in the cake pan so as to form a pretty ir- 
regular mixture. 

RECIPE FOR PINK POWDER. 

One drachm of alum, one drachm of cochineal, one 
drachm of cream of tartar, one drachm of soda; divide 
into four powders. Use one powder for each cake. — 
Mrs. S. I). Yeaton. 

Whipped Cream Cake. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of but- 
ter and four of milk, beaten together. Add one cup of 
Hour and two small teaspoons baking powder. Bake 
in two layers, and when cold put together with whip- 
ped cream, sweetened and flavored to taste. — Miss Al- 
'drich. 

Apple Layer Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 
Hour, four eggs, one cup of milk, three teaspoons of 
baking powder. Bake in layers. Put together with 
three or four large apples (grated), one lemon (grated), 
one egg, one cup of sugar, boiled together five minutes. 
—Mrs. Robert Daggett. 

Sponge Fruit Cake. 
Eight eggs, beaten separately, two cups of sugar, 
rind of lemon (grated), one cup of cracker crumbs, one 
cake of sweet chocolate (grated), one heaping cup of 
raisins (chopped) andalmonds (broken but not blanched), 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, one teaspoon of nutmeg. — 
Mrs. Anna Werbe. 



72 CAKES. 

Pistache Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of milk, two cups of sugar, 
four cups of flour, whites of ten eggs, three teaspoons 
baking powder. Bake in four layers, and put between 
each layer and on the top, an icing made of one cup of 
thick sour cream (whipped), whites of three eggs beaten 
very light, eight tablespoons of powdered sugar, vanilla, 
and one pound of almonds, blanched and grated. 
Sprinkle over the top two ounces of pistache nuts, 
blanched and cut fine. — Mrs. John R. Pearson. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one cup ot 
milk, three-fourths cup of butter, three eggs, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, lemon or vanilla. Bake two- 
thirds of the above in two layers, and into the remain- 
ing third part put one cup of raisins, one-half cup of 
currants, one teaspoon of molasses, and spices to suit- 
taste. Bake and put together with icing, putting dark_ 
layer in the middle. — Mrs. R. D. Townsend. 

Sponge Cake. 

Seven eggs and one and one-half cups of powdered 
sugar, beaten half an hour. Add one and one-half cups 
of flour. Stir gently together and bake about forty 
minutes. No baking powder. — Mrs. John R. Pearson. 

Orange Cake. 

The yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, two-thirds cup of water, one and one-half cups 
flour, two teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in lay- 
ers. One orange, one lemon, the rind of the orange 
grated with the fruit, the lemon grated after being- 
peeled. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth. 
Add powdered sugar to the consistency of thin icing. — 
Mrs J. C. Wall,-. 



CAKES. 73 



Chocolate Cake. 



One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk, four eggs, four cups of sifted flour, one-half cake 
of Baker's chocolate, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der. Hub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
milk and flour alternately, a little at a time. Add the 
whites and yolks of the eggs separately. Melt one- 
half cake of chocolate and when almost cold stir into 
the cake batter. The two teaspoons of baking powder 
must be put in the last of the flour. Bake in three or 
four layers, and put together with white icing. Flavor 
with vanilla.— Mrs. McCulloch. 

Angel Food. 

The whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cups of 
granulated sugar, one cup flour. After flour has been 
sifted four times, measure one teaspoon vanilla, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, then put flour and cream tar- 
tar in sieve and sift again. Beat eggs to a stiff froth, 
beat sugar into the eggs, add the flour, stirring it in 
lightly and quickly, beat until ready for oven. Use 
new pan. Bake forty minutes in moderate oven. — Mrs. 
Dutton. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Two cups white granulated sugar, one cup butter, 
whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cup 
sweet milk, three teaspoons of baking powder, three 
cups flour, one pint hickory nuts chopped fine; dredge 
the hickory nut-meats with flour. Bake in a moderate 
oven one hour and a half. — Mrs. Mabel Eh it is. 

Angel Food. 

One and one-half cups of pulverized sugar, sifted five 
times. One cup of flour sifted five times. One tea- 
spoon of cream tartar sifted in flour. Whites of eleven 



74 CAKES. 

eggs beaten stiff. Stir sugar in the beaten whites, add 
flour, stir gently, bake forty minutes. Slow fire at first. 
— Mrs. Bunger. 

Eggless Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one of sour milk, three 
(level) of sifted Hour, one-half cup of butter, teaspoon 
of soda, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoon of grated nutmeg, teacup of raisins, chopped 
and well floured. With sauce this makes a nice pud- 
ding. — Mrs. Minnie Boicourt. 

Nut Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of su- 
gar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one cup of nuts, two 
and one-half cups of flour, three eggs, two teaspoons 
of baking powder. — Mrs. Parman. 

Marble Cake. 

For light batter — Take one cup of light sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, whites of three 
eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, two cups Hour. 

For dark part — One-half cup of brown sugar, one- 
fourth cup of butter, one-half cup molasses, one-fourth 
cup of milk, half a nutmeg, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon of allspice, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, two cups of Hour, yolks of three eggs. Butter 
the mould and put in dark and light batter alternately. 
— Mrs. Staeey. 

Cream Caramel Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, whites of five 
eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of Hour, two 

teaspoons of baking powder. 

FILLING. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of cream; boil 
till thick and spread between layers. Flavor. — Mrs. Izor. 



CAKES. 75 

Caramel Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, three-fourths of a 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two and one-fourth 

cups of flour, three eggs, one and one-half teaspoons of 
baking powder. 

FILLING. 

One pint brown sugar, butter size of one egg, one- 
half cup of milk or water, one-half cake chocolate. 
Boil twenty minutes and pour over cake while warm. 

FROSTING. 

Take whites of three eggs, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, teaspoon of vanilla, three heaping teaspoons 
grated chocolate. — Bessy Graham. 

Chocolate Cake. 

The whites of eight eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of butter, three full cups of flour, one of sweet milk, 
three small teaspoons of baking powder. Beat butter 
and sugar to a cream, add milk, flour and beaten 
whites. When well beaten divide into two equal parts, 
and into half add grated chocolate. Bake in layers, 
spread with custard, and alternate the white and dark 
cakes.— Mrs J. C. Walk. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

One large cup of sugar, one large cup of flour, five 
eggs beaten light, one teaspoon baking powder. Flavor 
and bake in jelly pans. 

CREAM. 

One-half pint milk (boil), one egg, one-half cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of flour (scant), small piece of but- 
ter. Beat flour, sugar and eggs together and add boiling 
milk. Beat until smooth and well cooked. When cold 
spread between layers. — Mrs S. D. Yeaton. 



76 CAKES. 

Chocolate Cake. 

('ream two cups of sugar with one scant cup of but- 
ter, beat four eggs well, the whites separate, one cup 
sweet milk, three cups of sifted flour. After stirring 
in two cups of flour sift in two large teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Flavor with vanilla and bake in layers. 

FILLING. 

Put in an earthen kettle one-half cup of Baker's 
chocolate, grated, one cup of brown sugar, two table- 
spoons sweet milk. Allow to boil well on the back of 
the stove and spread on the layers of cake while hot, 
reserving some for the top of the cake. — Mrs. Geo. F. 
Bass. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 

Due-half pint of butter, one pint of sugar, one and 
one-half pints of flour, one pint of hickory nuts, whites 
of twelve eggs unbeaten, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der. — Mrs. Sylvester. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, three-quarters of a cup 
of butter, two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, 
one cup of milk, two teaspoons of baking powder and 
whites of seven eggs. Batter will seem thin, but it is 
all right.— Mrs. Marshall. 

Marble Cake. 

Whites of seven eggs, three cups of white sugar, one 
cup of butter, one cup of milk, four cups of flour, one 
and a half teaspoons of baking powder. 

DARK PART. 

Yolks of seven eggs, two cups of brown sugar, one 
cup of butter, one cup of milk, one cup of Orleans 



CAKES. 77 

molasses, four cups of flour, one tablespoon of baking 
powder, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one tablespoon 
of allspice, one half tablespoon of cloves. — Mrs. K. T. 
Griffith. 

Railroad Sponge Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, two cups of flour, 
four eggs, one teaspoon of baking powder. Mix and 
add one-third of a cup of hot water. Beat the eggs 
separately, and do not grease the sides of the pan much 
or the cake will crack when rolled. — Mrs. Hufford. 

Snow Cake. 

Half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of Hour, half cup of sweet milk, whites of 
four eggs, two level spoons of baking powder sifted 
with the flour. Flavor with extract of lemon, and 
cover with lemon icing. — Mrs. J. B. Roberts. 

Almond Cream Cake. 

Whites of twelve eggs, one and one-half tumblers 
pulverized sugar, one tumbler Hour, one heaping tea- 
spoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt. Sift Hour, sugar 
and cream tartar together. Bake in three layers. 

CREAM. 

Half pint of sweet cream, yolks of three eggs, two 
tablespoons of pulverized sugar, one teaspoon corn 
starch. Dissolve starch in a little milk, add yolks of 
eggs beaten with sugar, then add all to the cream, 
which must be boiling. Have ready one pound of al- 
monds, blanched and chopped tine; add to the cream. 
When cold put together as jelly cake. — Mrs. Geo. Ham- 
ilton. 



78 CAKES. 



Cocoanut Cake. 



Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, three 
and one-half cups of flour, three-fourths of a cup of 
sweet milk, five eggs, three and one-half teaspoons of 
baking powder. 

FILLING. 

Two and one-half cups of granulated sugar, one-half 
cup of boiling water. Boil the sugar until it candies. 
Pour the boiling sugar over the beaten whites of three 
eggs. Stir until it is a perfect cream. Spread on the 
cake and add grated cocoanut. — Mrs. D. A. Myers. 

Chocolate Caramel Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of sweet milk, two eggs, three cups of Hour, one 
teaspoon of soda, dissolved in hot water. Place on the 
stove in a small granite vessel, one cup of milk and 
one-half cup of chocolate: stir until dissolved, then 
add one cup of sugar and the yolk of one egg, which 
have been beaten together very light. Boil all to- 
gether, add one teaspoon of vanilla, and set aside to 
cool. While this is cooling beat up the first part of 
cake in the ordinary way. Add the chocolate custard, 
and bake in four jelly cake pans. Spread each layer 
and the top with boiled icing flavored with orange. — 
Anna Laird Wilder. 

White Sponge Cake. 

Whites of five eggs, one cup of pulverized sugar, one- 
half cup of Hour, one-half teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
flavoring. Beat eggs very light, add sugar, flour sifted 
with cream tartar, and flavoring. Bake in square cake 
pan, in quick, steady oven. — Mrs. Harry Stackhouse. 



CAKES. 79 

Fig Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, four eggs, beaten separately, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in layers. 
Chop two pounds of tigs and lay over the top of each 
layer. Bake in a moderate oven. Put together with 
icing. — Mrs. Harry Stackhouse. 

Orange Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
water, three cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking 
powder, one orange, five eggs. Leave out the whites 
of two for the icing. 

FILLING. 

Two cups of sugar boiled with one-half cup of water 
to the consistency of wax. Beat the whites of the eggs, 
pour in the boiling syrup. Beat until cold, and add 
the juice of the orange. — Mrs. A. J. McConney. 

Cream Cake. 

( me cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, one egg, one tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon 
of baking pow T der. 

CREAM FOR CAKE. 

One-half pint of sweet cream, whipped until it has 
thickened. In this put half a cup of sugar. One table- 
spoon of vanilla. Spread between the layers and on 
top. — Mrs. Laura Lunt. 

Molasses Gingerbread. 

One and one-half cups of molasses, one cup of but- 
ter, one egg, one cup of sour cream, one teaspoon of 
soda, two and one half cups of flour, one tablespoon 
of ginger. — Mrs. Laura Lunt. 



80 CAKES. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, beaten 
as for cake, three and one-half cups of Hour, one cup 
of molasses, one teacup of boiling water, with one-half 
teaspoon of soda dissolved in it. Add last of all, 
spices, our teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, a 
little allspice and doves, if you like. — Ellen D. Gram r. 

Ginger Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one egg, two tablespoons of 
shortening, one tablespoon of ginger, two-thirds of a 
cup of boiling water and a teaspoon of soda.. Put in 
a little Hour before the hot water is added. Enough 
flour for thin batter; bake in a dripping pan. — Mrs. L. 
Chandler. 

Cornucopias. 

Sugar the weight of five eggs, flour the weight of 
three eggs, rind of one-half lemon. Beat the whole eggs 
with sugar; when light, mix with flour lightly, spread 
on waxed tins, cut in squares with a spoon, and bake 
in a pretty hot oven. When baked well, shape into 
cornucopias while hot. Before serving, till with 
whipped cream. — Miss Mohr. 

Cakes. 

Yolks of four eggs, one heaping cup of white sugar, 
one-third teaspoon of cloves, one-half spoonful of cin- 
namon, one cup of flour. Beat eggs and sugar well, 
add flour, spices and one-half teaspoon of baking pow- 
der. Bake in a slow oven. — Miss M. Mohr. 

Finger Cakes. 

Two eggs beaten very light, to which add a cup of 
granulated sugar, (except a tablespoonful). Sift in a 
very small tablespoon of cream of tartar, and half 



CAKES. 81 

as much soda. Stir in tiour enough for a stilt' dough, 
roll very thin and sprinkle with the extra tablespoon of 
sugar, giving it a light roll. Cut into strips a linger 
wide; do not let them touch in the pan. Bake in a 
quick oven. — Mrs. M. E: Griggs, 

Spice Cakes. 

Take one and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one-half cup of cold coffee, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon each of allspice and cinnamon, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, with Hour enough to roll soft. Make 
out into cakes and finish by placing a raisin in each 
cake. — Mrs. Geo. Buss. 

Taylor Cake. 

Take two eggs, one cup sugar, two cups molasses, 
three-fourths cup of lard or butter, four teaspoons soda 
dissolved in one cap of warm water, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon ground 
cinnamon. Add flour until stiff enough to drop with a 
spoon, into the pans. — Mrs. Dart's. 

Nut Cakes. 

Five eggs, one pound of sugar beaten together, then 
add one pound of flour, a teaspoon of baking powder 
and two cups of hickory nut kernels. — Mrs. Edgar A. 
Br* urn. 

Hetty's Ginger Drops. 

One and one-half cups of molasses, one-half cup of 
sugar, one cup of shortening, equal parts of butter and 
lard, two eggs, one tablespoon of ginger, one table- 
spoon of soda, dissolved in a very little boiling water, 
tiour to stir quite stiff, not sufficient to roll out. Drop 
from the spoon, at regular intervals into a small but- 
tered pan. Bake in a moderate oven. — Mrs. H. H. Fay. 
6 



82 CAKES. 

Cream Puffs. 

Melt one-half cup of butter, one cup of hot water, 
and while boiling beat in one cup of Hour. Then re- 
move from stove, and when cool stir in three eggs, one 
at a time without beating. Drop by small spoonfuls 
on tin quickly, about two inches apart, and bake about 
twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

CREAM. 

One-half pint of milk, one egg, three tablespoons of 
sugar, two large tablespoons of flour. Boil and flavor 
with lemon. When puffs are done open the sides with 
a sharp knife and till with cream. — Bessy Gf-raham. 

Cookies. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-fourth 
cup of buttermilk or sour milk, one teaspoon of soda. 
Flavor with nutmeg. These ingredients being put to- 
gether, stir in flour until it can be lifted with spoon 
upon bread-board. Then knead until it can be handled 
easil} T , roll thin, sprinkle lightly with granulated sugar, 
pass rolling-pin over again. Cut out and bake in quick 
oven. — Mrs. Charles Stone. 

Cookies. 

Three eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
one teaspoon of soda in one-half cup of sweet milk, 
spice, and flour enough to roll thin. — Mrs. Marshall. 

Hermit Cookies. 

Three cups of brown sugar, three eggs, one cup of 
butter, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one teaspoon of 
nutmeg, one teaspoon of soda, two tablespoons of hot 
water, one cup of chopped currants. Make a stiff 
dough. Roll thin.— Mrs. A. J. McConney. 



CAKES. 83 

Cookies. 

Four eggs, four tablespoons of ice water, two cups of 
brown sugar, one cup of butter, two teaspoons of 
baking powder, flour for as soft a dough as can be 
rolled out. Cut into shape and bake. — Mrs. J. B. Ehnu 

Lemon Snaps. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two eggs, 
one teaspoon of essence of lemon, a quarter teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in a teaspoon of milk, flour enough* 
to make very stiff, and roll very thin. — Mrs. George 
Hamilton. 

Cookies. 
Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, one- 
half cup of milk, one teaspoon soda, and flour enough 
to roll out soft. Season to taste. — Carru S. Porta-. 

Ginger-Snaps. 

Two cups molasses, one-half cup lard, one-half tea- 
spoon soda. Put the molasses and lard on the soda 
till it foams. Then add four teaspoons of ginger, two 
teaspoons of cloves, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one 
teaspoon of allspice, one teaspoon of nutmeg. Make 
stiff and roll thin. — Kitty McGonney. 

Sand Tarts. 

Three cups brown sugar, one cup butter, three eggs. 
Make a -stiff dough. Roll thin, cut in squares, put 
hickory-nut meats and cinnamon on the top before 
baking. — Mrs. A. J. McConney. 

Jumbles. 
One cup butter and lard (equal parts), two cups 
sugar, four eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, and 
flour enough to make a stiff dough. Roll and bake in 
a quick oven. — Mrs. Henri/ Werbe. 



84 CAKES. 

Christmas Cakes. 

One pound of powdered sugar, four eggs, one tea- 
spoon of baking powder, and flour enough to roll 
Stir one hour. Roll about a quarter of an inch thick, 
press with form, cut and allow to dry over night. 
Sprinkle anise seed in the pan and bake in a slow oven. 
— Wealtha Wilson. 

Cookies. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, one- 
half teaspoon of soda in one teaspoon of water, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, and flour to roll. Cut 
out and bake in a quick oven. — Emma Dithmer. 

Doughnuts. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup of milk, one table- 
spoon of butter, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoon of soda and nutmeg, a little salt and flour 
enough to roll out easily. — Mrs. T. M. Bassett. 

Crullers. 

One cup of lard, eight eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
nutmeg. Work lard and sugar as you would pound 
cake. AVork in the eggs and nutmeg; mould and fry 
in lard. — Mrs. N. J. McConney. 

Plain Raised Doughnuts. 

One pint of new milk (warm), two-cent cake of com- 
pressed yeast. Dissolve and add to milk a little salt. 
Stir in flour until stiff enough to lift from bowl, then 
knead. Return to bread bowl, cover and let stand until 
light. Turn out on bread board, carefully cut off in 
suitable pieces and drop in hot lard. — Mrs. ('. Stone. 



CAKES. 85 

Doughnuts. 

Nine tablespoons powdered sugar, five tablespoons 
melted butter, three eggs, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, two-thirds cup sweet milk. Flavor with nutmeg, 
mix in flour enough to make soft dough, and fry in hot 
lard. — Mrs. John Elam. 



Doughnuts. 

Two eggs, one tablespoon of lard, two cups of sugar, 
one pint of sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, a little 
nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Flour to stiffen. — Kitty 
MeConney. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Two cups of bread sponge, one cup sweet milk, one 
cup sugar, a little salt, two tablespoons butter, two eggs 
(beaten very light). Stir in flour, beating thoroughly 
with iron spoon, until nearly like bread dough. Set in 
a warm place to rise. When very light, put on mould- 
ing board, roll, cut in rings or any shape you choose. 
Let rise again. Fry in hot fat, seasoning with any spice 
[•referred. — Mrs. Ida Bleu/,-. 



Doughnuts. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, three- 
fourths cup sweet milk, one iron spoon lard, one-half 
nutmeg, three teaspoons baking powder, flour to 
thicken. Roll a little of the dough at a time about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Cut in rings and fry in hot 
lard. When cold sprinkle with powdered sugar. — Mrs. 
Horaa E. Smith. 



86 CAKES. 

Soft Ginger Cookies. 

One coffee cup New Orleans molasses, one cup lard 
and butter mixed, one cup brown sugar, one tablespoon 
ginger, four large eggs, three level teaspoons soda in 
the Hour. Roll out one-fourth of an inch thick ; cut 
with a large cookie cutter ; place in slightly greased 
pan, one-half inch apart, and bake in a hot oven until 
nicely browned. — Annu Laird Wilder. 



USE SOLLIDAY'S 



PURE FRUIT FLAVORING 



EXTRACTS 



IF YOU WISH THE PUREST AND BEST. 



THE INVINCIBLE BRAND BAKING POWDER 



Produces better results than any other. 



TRY IT AND BE CONVINCED. 



Ice Cream at Home 



Made cheaply and quickly by using a Triple Motion 




WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZER. 

•Covered Gearing, Waterproof Tubs, Durable Cans, Malleable Iron 

Beaters, coated with tin, and the Triple Motion, are only a few 

of the many desirable features of this famous Freezer. 

Will freeze in half the time of any other 

Freezer, and produce the finest 

quality of cream. 

For sale by wide-awake, enterprising tradesmen the world over. In- 
quire|for the " White Mountain" of your local dealer in house-furnish- 



"FROZEN DAINTIES," 

A book of choice recipes for Ice Cream, Sherbet, Water Ices, etc., 

packed with each Freezer. 
Manufactured bv 

THE WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZER CO.. 

Nashua, N. H. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 



"Nectar and ambrosia, — food for the gods." 

Pine Apple Sherbet. 

Take one quart of sugar in two quarts of water, pur 
on the stove and let come to a boil, then take one can 
of grated pineapple, the juice and shreds of three lem- 
ons, stir and pour in the freezer. Fill up within three 
inches of the top with water, and add the beaten whites 
of three eggs. Do not stir, freeze. This makes one 
gallon. — Mrs. A. J McConney. 

Peach Water Ice. 

To make one-half gallon, take enough thoroughly 
ripe free-stone peaches to make one quart after they 
are mashed. Add the same amount of water, make 
quite sweet and freeze the same as ice cream. — Mrs. R. 
D. Toionsend. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Two quarts rich milk, two eups of sugar, two table- 
spoons of corn starch, yolks of four eggs: stir quickly 
while boiling. To the above mass, when cooked, add 
one pint of rich cream and the beaten whites of eggs, 
pulp of five or six ripe peaches. Freeze with White 
Mountain freezer. — Miss M. Mohr. 

Pine Apple Sherbet. 

Two small cans of pineapple, one generous pint of 
sugar, one quart of water. Four the juice of the pine- 
apple into a bowl. Put the fruit into a saucepan with 



90 ICES AND ICE CREAM. 

half the water, and simmer twenty minutes. Put the 
sugar and the remainder of the water on to boil. Cook 
fifteen minutes. Rub the cooked pineapple through a 
sieve, and add it to the boiling syrup. Cook fifteen 
minutes longer. Add the juice and cool. Then freeze. 
—Mrs. T. M. Bassett. 

Frozen Apricots. 

One can of apricots, generous pint of sugar, one 
quart of water, one pint of whipped cream, measured 
after being whipped. Cut apricots in small pieces, add 
sugar and water, and freeze. When nearly frozen, add 
the cream.— Mrs. T. 31 Bassett. 

Abbie's Ice Cream. 
One quart of milk, one pint of cream; two cups of 
sugar; one-half box of gelatine, dissolved in a little of 
the milk warmed. Add the cream last, after the milk 
and sugar have been added to the gelatine. — Mrs. T. 31. 
Basst ft. 

Pine Apple Sherbet. 

One and one-half pints of canned pineapple, or if 
fresh fruit, one large pineapple, a small pint of sugar, 
a pint of water, one tablespoon of gelatine. Soak the 
gelatine one or two hours in cold water to cover. Cut 
the hearts and eyes from the fruit, chop it fine, and add 
to the sugar the juice from the can. Have half the 
water hot and dissolve the gelatine in it. Stir this and 
the cold water into the pineapple. Freeze. This will 
be white and creamy. Use White Mountain Freezer. — 
Mrs. T. 31. Bassett. 

Frozen Pudding.' 

One pint of milk, two cups of granulated sugar, a 
small half cup of flour, two eggs, two tablespoons of 
gelatine, one quart of cream, one pound of French can- 
died fruit, half a pound will do, four tablespoons of 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 91 

wine. Let the milk come to a boil. Beat the flour, 
one cup of sugar and the eggs together, then stir into 
the boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes and add the 
gelatine, which has been soaking one or two hours in 
water enough to cover it. Set away to cool. When 
cool, add the wine, sugar and cream. Freeze ten min- 
utes, then add the candied fruit and finish freezing. 
Take out the beater, pack smoothly and set away for 
an hour or two. When ready to serve dip the tin in 
warm water, turn out the cream and serve with whip- 
ped cream heaped around. — Mrs. T. M. Bassett. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

( hie pint of shelled almonds, one and one-half pints 
of chestnuts, one pint of cream, one pint can of pine 
apple, yolks of ten eggs, one-half pound of French 
candied fruits, one tablespoon of vanilla extract, four 
tablespoons of wine, one pint water, one pint sugar. 
Boil the chestnuts one-half hour, rub off the black 
skins and pound to a paste in the mortar ; blanch the 
almonds and pound to a paste in the same manner; 
boil the sugar, water and pine apple juice for twenty 
minutes in a sauce pan ; beat the yolks of the eggs and 
stir them in the syrup ; put the sauce pan in boiling 
water, and beat the mixture with an egg beater until it 
thickens ; take off and place in a basin of cold water 
and beat for ten minutes; mix the almonds and chest- 
nuts with the cream and rub all through a sieve; add 
the candied fruit and the pineapple cut line ; mix this 
with the cooked mixture ; add the flavor and one-half 
teaspoon of salt ; freeze same as ice cream. — Mrs. T. M. 

Bassett. 

Lemon Ice. 

Twelve lemons, two quarts of water, one pound of 
granulated sugar, beaten ; white of one egg; mix and 
freeze. Use White Mountain Freezer. — Mrs. Julia H. 
Goodhart. 



MENIER CHOCOLATE 

Received Highest Award, known as 

"a-^^isriD prix," 

At the Paris Exposition of 1889. 
Largest Chocolate Factory in the World. 



PARIS 



NOISIEL. 



LONDON. 



Annual Sales Exceed 30 Million Pounds. 




CORRECT MANNER OF PREPARING 



MENIER CHOCOLATE 



AS A BEVERAGE. 

For each cup desired, break into small pieces one of the six tablets 
into which every half-pound package is divided. Place in a sauce-pan 
and add sufficient boiling water to reduce the chocolate to a smooth 
paste by stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon over a brisk fire. 
When thoroughly dissolved add a cup of unboiled milk, either cold or 
warm, and boil for about four minutes, stirring it frequently. Serve 
while hot and you will have a perfect oup of chocolate. 



CANDIES. 



" A perpetual feast of nectared sweets." 

Cream Candy. 

Cream Xo. 1. 

Take one-half pint of cream or new milk. When 
hot — not boiling — add enough Confectioners' XXX X 
sugar to make a dough. Flavor to taste. 

Chocolate Creams. 

Flavor cream Xo. 1 with vanilla. Mould into small 
balls and drop into melted chocolate. Remove the 
balls with a fork and place on waxed paper to harden. 
X. B. Baker's chocolate is preferred. Grate into a 
bowl and put in a warm place to melt. Use no water. 

Wainut Creams. 

Take the cream of Xo. 1 and mould into somewhat 
larger balls. Place half an English walnut upon either 
side, pressing it into the cream. 

Almond Cream. 

Flavor cream Xo. 1 with extract of almond. Cover 
blanched almonds with the cream, forming them into 
balls. 

Peppermint Drops. 

Flavor cream Xo. 1 with oil of peppermint. Mould 
and roll in granulated sugar. 



94 CANDIES. 



Cocoanut Creams. 

To one pound of cream ISTo. 1 take one-fourth of a 
pound of grated cocoanut. Mix thoroughly and mould 
into balls, or roll out on the moulding-hoard and cut 
into squares. 

Orange Drops. 

Take the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
two, rejecting the seeds. Stir in confectioner's sugar 
till it is stiff enough to mould. For lemon drops sub- 
stitute lemons for oranges. — Mrs. Julia Goodhart. 

Almond Rings. 

Peel one pound of almonds, cut fine lengthwise and 
browned slightly. When cool stir in beaten whites of 
seven eggs, with one pound of sugar. Add one vanilla 
bean, pulverized. Spread one-half pound of sugar over 
your bread-board and form your dough into rings. 
Bake a light brown. — Mrs. Albrecht. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Two cups of grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar, two 
tablespoons of flour, the whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff. Mix and bake on a buttered paper in a quick 
oven. — Bessy Graham. 

Sugar Kisses. 

Whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add one 
pound pulverized sugar, and one teaspoon of lemon ex- 
tract. Drop on white paper and bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. — Bessy Graham. 

Wintergreen Kisses. 

White of one egg beaten stiff: one heaping cup of 
powdered sugar, beat together until very light and add 
a few drops of wintergreen essence. Drop on buttered 
paper and bake a light brown. — Mrs. Elvin. 



CANDIES. 95 



Vanilla Caramels. 



Xd. 1. Four cups granulated sugar, one cup water, 
one tablespoon glucose. Boil until it hardens when 
dropped in cold water, then add one cup of cream and 
butter the size of an egg. Boil again until it hardens 
when dropped in cold water, then add three teaspoons 
of Flavoring. Pour on buttered pans three-fourths of 
an inch thick. When cold cut in squares and wrap in 
paraffine paper. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Same as No. 1, only add one-fourth pound of choco- 
late with the cream and butter. 

Cocoanut Caramels. 

Same as No. 1. After pouring in pan sprinkle grated 
cocoanut. 

Nut Caramels. 

Same as No. 1, only add two cups of nuts to the 
cream. — Mrs. II. B. Burnett, Steubenville, Ohio. 

Chocolate Creams. 

Four cups granulated sugar, one cup boiling water, 
three tablespoons glucose. Boil rapidly until almost 
candy; pour out on buttered pan two inches deep; let 
it get lukewarm, then stir with wooden paddle until it 
is white and dry; put on board and knead like bread. 
From this you make all kinds of creams. Koll in balls 
and set on paraffine paper. Next day put a cake of 
chocolate in a pan, set in another pan of boiling water ; 
when melted, cut into it a lump of paraffine size of a 
hickory nut; butter half as large. Roll creams in this 
and set on paraffine paper. — Mrs. H. B. Burnett. 



96 CANDIES. 



Nut Candy. 



( hie quart of ]STew Orleans molasses, butter size of 
walnut. When the molasses is very nearly done, add 
one pint of hickory nut meats which have been chop- 
ped very line ; stir continually to keep from burning. 
Put in pans one-half inch thick. — Mrs. R. D. Townsend. 

Tomato Figs. 

Peel small ripe yellow tomatoes, drop into thick 
syrup of white sugar and boil two minutes, allow to 
stand twenty-four hours. Drain off liquor, boil up, 
pour over tomatoes. Repeat this process four times; 
then lay tomatoes on plates and dry in the sun. or in 
a moderately cool oven. Sun is best. As the syrup 
settles to the center of plates it is best to remove the 
fruit to other plates, as it quickens the drying. The re- 
maining syrup can he used for pudding sauce, or util- 
ized h)- adding more tomatoes for preserve. — Mrs. V. 
31. Hood. 

Pop-Corn Balls. 

Two cups sugar, granulated or any other: add one- 
half cup cold water, and let come to boil slowly; boil 
without stirring until when dropped in water it breaks 
easily. Have ready a large pan of popped corn assorted, 
then pour while hot the taffy over the corn, one tea- 
spoon at a time, stirring all the while with one hand 
while pouring with the other, and when all the corn 
seems treated, form into balls with bare hands. — Mrs. 
Charles Stone. 

Hickory-Nut Candy. 

One-half pint of grated chocolate, one-half [tint of 
butter, one pint milk or cream, three pints of sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla, thicken with hickory nuts. — Mrs. 
Dyt . 



CANDIES. 97 



Butter-Scotch. 



Use equal quantities of white sugar, New Orleans 
molasses, and butter. Flavor with lemon. Boil until it 
hardens when dropped in cold water, pour in buttered 
[tans, and when cool make in squares. — Mrs. George 
Hamilton. 

Cream Candy. 

White of one egg, not beaten ; same amount of water ; 
stir in confectioner's sugar until very stiff'; flavor to 
suit ; till with nuts, almonds or dates. — Mrs. Elvin. 




bOUDLRS' 

Elegant 

JLavoring 

Extracts 

% AND 

j||>URES7 



SOUDERS' 

10 Cent Lemon and 



15 Cent Vanilla 



Are the Best in the Market 
for the money, and de- 
cidedly better than many 
others at higher prices. 
ASK FOR SOUDERS' EXTRACTS 

In New, Oval Bottles, with Green 
Label and Corkscrew to each. 

Gotten up in a style different from 
anything in the market. Sold at a 
bnort Profit by the manufacturer on a 
Positive Guarantee, and sought after 
by the trade as the best seller in the 
market. 

FOR SALE BY 

GROCERS GENERALLY. 



^ 

the ARMY 

of > Grocerymen and 

Confectioners hand- 
ling and using Sou- 
d'ers' Elegant Fla- 
voring Extracts is 
100,000 strong and 
gaining every da v. 
WHY? Because 

SOUDERS 

10 Cent LEMON 

AND 

15 Cent VANILLA 

Are the Best in the World 
for the money. We mean 
what we say, and sell them 
on a guarantee. 



*?& 



ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 



Solictors' Elegant Elavoring Extracts, 

In Oval Bottle, with Green Label, and insist on having them, and 

Then Notice the Improved Flavor of Your 
Cakes and Pastry. 

Souders' Elegant Flavoring Extracts are made only by 

THE ROYAL REMEDY AND EXTRACT CO., 



DAYTON, O., U. S. A. 



PRESERVES. 



" Small store will nerve, where store, 
All seasons, ripe for use, hangs on the stalk.'' 

Economical Fruit Preserves. 

Take the fruit as soon as possible after picking, pack 
tightly in jars. Thoroughly dissolve the following com- 
positions by boiling hot water, the sugar and acid be- 
ing previously mixed. Pour on fruit, vegetables, or 
pickles while hot. 

FOR FRUITS. 

Use thirty-five grains salicylic acid, eight ounces of 
sugar and one quart of water. 

FOR VEGETABLES. 

Use eight and one-half drachms of salicylic acid, 
four ounces of salt and one gallon of water. 

FOR PICKLES. 

Use twenty-four grains salicylic acid, one ounce salt 
and one quart of vinegar. — Bessie Graham. 

Pickled Blackberries. 

Ten quarts berries, four quarts sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one-half ounce cloves, one-half ounce cinnamon. 
Heat the vinegar, sugar and spices in a porcelain kettle. 
Scald the berries, let boil gently for fifteen minutes, 
pour into jars and seal. — Bessie Graham. 



100 PRESERVES. 



Ginger Preserves. 

Pare watermelon rinds and cut in pieces about an 
inch and one-half long and one-half inch wide. Put in 
strong salt-water and let lie over night. In the morn- 
ing take out and press all the water out. For one good- 
sized melon take three lemons, cut in slices (remove the 
seeds), ten cents' worth of white ginger root, cut up 
line, four cups of white sugar and water enough to 
cover all the melon rind. Cook slowly for several hours, 
or until clear and brown. If the syrup is not rich 
enough, add more sugar. — Mrs. Henry Werbe. 

Apple Preserves. 

Peel and quarter tough sweet apples. Use one-half 
pound of sugar to one pound of apples. Sprinkle the 
sugar over them and enough water to start the sugar 
dissolving. Let them stand over night, pour off the 
liquid and boil it. Pour it over apples and let stand un- 
til next morning. Boil liquid again and add apples. Let 
cook until nearly soft and seal up. — Mrs. Henry Ingersoll. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Combine raspberries and currants in the proportion 
of two-thirds raspberries and one-third currants. Mash 
the fruit and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, stir- 
ring often. Add sugar in the proportion of three- 
fourths pound sugar to one pound fruit ; boil thirty min- 
utes longer, stirring almost constantly. Put up in small 
glass or stone jars, and seal or secure like canned 
fruit. — Mrs. Lewis Jones. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Take nice large raspberries, and to every pound of 
fruit allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Mash 
fruit well and mix in the sugar. Put them into a porce- 



PRESERVES. 101 



lain kettle and let boil one-half hour ; skim frequently : 
put in close glass jars, and keep in a cool, dark place. 
— Mrs. Carrie S. Porter. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Five pounds grapes, three of sugar, two teaspoons 
cinnamon and allspice, half teaspoon cloves. Pulp 
grapes. Boil skins until tender. Cook pulp and strain 
through a sieve. Add it to the skins. Put in sugar, 
spices and one teacup of vinegar. Boil thoroughly, 
and can. — Mrs. Lewis Joins. 

Grape Butter. 

Take ripe grapes, pulp them, save the skins, cook the 
pulps and strain the seeds out. Take as much sugar as 
pulp, put in the skins and cook all together until the 
juice is jelly. Seal up. — Mrs. John B. Elam. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Take ripe grapes, select the perfect clusters, and cut 
them into bunches that will go into your can. Be care- 
ful not to break the skins. Fill your can full, but do 
not crowd them or you will break the skins. Make a 
syrup of one-half vinegar and water, and one-half su- 
gar. Put some whole allspice, whole cloves and stick 
cinnamon into the cans with the grapes. Pour the 
syrup over the grapes and seal up. Some of the grapes 
will open when the hot syrup goes over them, but that 
only makes the better wine. — Mrs. John B. Elam. 

Heavenly Hash. 

All sorts of fruit are suitable for this dish except the 
seedy varieties, and all kinds maybe put in at the same 
time. If cherries and pineapples are used, a fine flavor 



102 PRESERVES. 



is assured. If pineapple is used, break it up into small 
pieces. Measure or weigh the fruit when prepared and 
take an equal amount of sugar. Pour the sugar, a little 
at a time, into a pint of pure alcohol and allow it to 
dissolve, then add the fruit. For several days after- 
ward stir thoroughly in order that the sugar may dis- 
solve. As often as fruit is added put in an equal amount 
of sugar and stir thoroughly. Use as many kinds of 
fruit as desired, and add whenever convenient. Cover 
closely and keep in a cool place. If the rule is care- 
fully followed, the mixture will keep for years. — Miss 
We alt ha Wilson. - 



PICKLES. 



" I warrant there's vinegar and pepper in 't." 
" We must be as sweet as sharp." 

Cucumber Sweet Pickles. 

Wash cucumbers and pour over them a weak and 
boiling hot brine. Cover closely, let stand over night, 
and in the morning heat brine again, repeating for 
three days. Then wash in cold water and place in 
brass kettle, into which put about two quarts good 
cider vinegar, a handful of horse-radish, and three small 
red peppers. Put in as many cucumbers as the vinegar 
will accommodate, and heat thoroughly. Take out, 
pack in glass jars tightly, and continue in the same 
vinegar until all the pickles are scalded. Have ready 
boiling hot syrup of one quart vinegar, one-half pound 
brown sugar, and a handful cinnamon bark. Then put 
into each jar one pepper, one piece horseradish, one 
piece cinnamon, one teaspoon white mustard seed. 
Pour on syrup and seal. — Mrs. Izor. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Take small cucumbers and let lie in cold, slightly 
salted water over night. In the morning take out and 
drain dry, and put in bottles or jars. Add dill seed, 
mustard seed, small onions, laurel leaves, red peppers, 
whole black pepper corns, or any spiees. Take vinegar, 



104 PICKLES. 

to each gallon, add a teacup of salt and one of sugar. 
Heat to boil. Pour over pickles and seal and set away. 
They will be ready for use in six weeks. — Mrs. Anna 
Werbi . 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Make a weak brine (not strong enough to bear up 
an egg), heat it nearly to boiling, and pour over the 
cucumbers after they are thoroughly washed. Let 
them stand twenty-four hours, and then pour oft* the 
brine. Pour over them boiling hot water in which has 
been dissolved a small piece of alum. A piece as large 
as a small hickory-nut is sufficient for one hundred 
medium-sized pickles. Let this stand twenty-four 
hours. Put your pickles in cans with the spices your 
taste may prefer — mustard seed, celery seed, peppers, 
bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon, etc.; and pour over them 
the vinegar, nearly boiling, in which has been dissolved 
a generous amount of sugar. A few small onions are 
an improvement. — Mrs. IP. A. Bell. 

Tomato Soy. 

Five pounds tomatoes, ripe or green ; three pounds 
sugar; one pint of vinegar ; one teaspoon salt : one tea- 
spoon pepper; one teaspoon cinnamon; one teaspoon 
cloves. Chop tomatoes, then add all the ingredients, and 
boil slowly until quite thick. — Mrs. Charles Stone, 

Chinese Pickle. 

Two heads cabbage, eighteen or twenty-four onions, 
twenty-four large cucumbers, five or six red peppers. 
Chop cabbage, onions, pepper and cucumbers separately, 
and let lie in salt about half a day. Squeeze dry, then 
place all in a kettle with one teaspoon of celery seed, 
one teaspoon white mustard seed, one teaspoon of tur- 
meric, one teaspoon ground cloves, one teaspoon ground 



PICKLES. 105 

allspice, one teaspoon ground cinnamon. Add sugar, 
salt and vinegar to taste. Let boil till well cooked, then 
boil and seal while hot. — Miss Stratford. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Sprinkle over two hundred average sized pickles one 
pint of salt, cover with boiling water, and let stand over 
night. Then wash off in cold water and put in jars. To 
each quart jar put one tablespoon white mustard seed : 
six small pieces of horse-radish ; half of a red pepper, 
broken up; one teaspoon of sugar and several laurel 
leaves. Then fill the jars with boiling vinegar and seal. 
—Mrs. Bertha Wad< . 

Pickled Lemons. 

Take eight thick-skinned lemons ; one-half pound tine 
salt: two quarts vinegar; one-quarter of an ounce each 
of cloves, nutmeg, mace and Cayenne : two ounces of 
mustard seed; a small onion. Put all this in a muslin 
bag, the whole to be put in a tight covered jar. Set in a 
kettle of boiling water and let it remain until the 
lemons are tender. It is better to keep them three 
months before using. — Bess;/ Graham.. 

Canteloupe Pickles. 

Seven nearly ripe melons, peeled and cut in vari- 
ous shapes. Lay in a weak brine over night. Then 
boil in alum water (a teaspoon of alum to two quarts 
of water) one-half hour. Remove, drain, and have 
boiling hot on the stove the following: Three pounds 
of sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces of cinna- 
mon bark, one ounce of pounded mace, and one and 
one-half ounces of whole cloves. Add the melon, let 
scald altogether fifteen minutes and put away in jars. — 
Bessy Graham. 



1 06 PICKLES. 

Watermelon Rinds. 

Pare and cut in fancy shapes. Pour hot, weak alum 
water over it and let stand twenty-four hours. Then 
soak until well cleansed and boil in clear water until 
tender. Make a syrup of equal measures, two quarts 
of vinegar, three pounds of sugar, some sticks of cin- 
namon, and boil the rinds in this till clear. Put in a 
jar, pour the syrup over, cover and seal. — Bessy Gra- 
ham. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

Fifteen pounds of sliced green tomatoes; let stand 
over night with a little salt sprinkled over, drain ; five 
pounds of sugar, one quart of best vinegar; one ounce 
of cloves; two ounces of cinnamon. Boil fifteen or 
twenty minutes, skim out and boil the syrup till thicker 
if preferred, but it is not necessary. — Bessy Graham. 

Hegdon (Chopped Pickles). 

One peck of green tomatoes, sliced and laid in salt 
over night; one large head of cabbage; one bunch of 
celery. Chop each of these fine, mix and squeeze. Add 
two tablespoons of grated horse-radish, two ounces of 
black and white mustard seed, one teaspoon of black 
pepper, mace to suit the taste, one pound of brown 
sugar. Cover with cider vinegar and simmer for two 
hours. More salt may be added if what is put on the 
tomatoes is not sufficient. — Mrs. Edwin Hill. 

Pickles. 

I 'are large, ripe cucumbers, cut into thick slices, 
scrape out the seed, put into a jar and salt well. Xext 
day, dry well with a cloth, and put into jars in layers — 
cucumbers, then white mustard seed, whole peppers 
(black), onion cut into slices. Then pour boiling vine- 
gar, prepared with spices, over them. Seal. — Miss Mohr. 



PICKLES. 107 



Pickled Cucumbers. 



Take ripe cucumbers, peel and cut them in length- 
wise slices, steam until tender; one-half gallon vinegar ; 
two pounds of sugar; one red pepper; one ounce of 
cassia buds. Scald altogether and pour hot over the 
pickles in ajar. Seal. — Bessy Graham. 

Tomato Pickles. 

Peck green tomatoes, chop tine with six onions, stir 
in one cup salt and let stand over night. Xext morn- 
ing boil twenty minutes in one and one-half quarts 
vinegar. Then strain through a line sieve and add four 
bunches celery, chopped line ; one-half head cabbage, 
well chopped; one-half pound white mustard seed; two 
tablespoons cinnamon; two tablespoons of cloves ; two 
tablespoons of mustard ; two tablespoons ginger ; two 
and one-half tablespoons black pepper; add one quart 
vinegar and boil fifteen minutes. — Mrs. A. Blitz. 

Chopped Pickles. 

One peck green tomatoes, twenty-four large onions, 
two heads of cabbage, large red or green peppers, suit 
to taste. Chop tomatoes, salt and let drain over night; 
chop onions, cabbage and peppers separately ; mix and 
drain all in a bag until dry, then add the mixed spices. 
( )ne-half cup of sugar to each quart of vinegar, allow 
enough vinegar to cover, cook until thoroughly heated. 
When cool pack in stone jars, cover with horse radish 
leaves, and weight down with stones. — Miss Mary In- 
gersoll. 

Mixed Pickles. 

( )ne peck green tomatoes, one-half peck ripe toma- 
toes, one dozen green bell peppers, one dozen red pep- 
pers, four heads of cabbage, one-fourth dozen onions, 



108 PICKLES. 

one dozed large cucumbers, four bunches celery. Chop 
all line, sprinkle with salt, and let stand twelve or four- 
teen hours. Drain liquor ofl, add cinnamon and other 
spices to taste, with four pounds of sugar, and one gal- 
lon of vinegar. Boil one-half hour. — Mrs. Stackhouse. 

Virginia Chow-Cow. 

One gallon green tomatoes, two medium-sized heads 
of cabbage, two dozen cucumbers, six onions, one-half 
pint grated horse-radish, two green and two red pep- 
pers, three pounds sugar, six ounces white mustard 
seed, one ounce turmeric, one and one-half ounces 
ground cinnamon, one box mustard, one-half ounce 
celery seed, one-third cup of ground black pepper, one 
and one-half gallons cider vinegar. Cut the vegetables 
into small pieces and put in salt over night. In the 
morning squeeze as dry as possible. Mix all the spices 
(except the turmeric and mustard) with the vinegar. 
Let it come to a boil, then add the last two, mixed in a 
little cold vinegar; let come to a boil again and pour 
over the vegetables. Next morning put all in a kettle 
and boil slowly for three hours, stirring frequently. — 
A mm Stratford. 

Chow-Chow. 

Mix half a peek of green tomatoes, and half a peck 
of small onions, one peek of tiny cucumbers and six 
green peppers, mince the seeds. To these add three 
medium-sized heads of cauliflower, broken in small 
pieces; sprinkle salt over all ; ami let stand for twenty- 
four hours. Drain well and cover with vinegar; put 
three heads of celery, cut into small pieces ; one cupful of 
grated horse-radish ; half a pound of mustard seed ; half 
a pound of ground mustard; two ounces of ground 
black pepper; two ounces brown sugar; half an ounce 
of ground cloves; and half an ounce of turmeric into 



PICKLES. 109 

enough eider vinegar to cover. Boil for fifteen minutes 
and pour over the pickles. Put into glass jars and 
keep a month before using. — Miss Wealtha Wilson. 

Chili Sauce. 

Eighteen tomatoes, two or more onions, two green 
peppers, one tablespoon ginger, two tablespoons salt, 
one teacup sugar, two and one-half cups vinegar, one 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon. Chop, mix and 
let boil slowly. — Anna Stratford. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve large tomatoes, four ripe, or three green pep- 
pers, two onions, two tablespoons salt, two of sugar, 
one of cinnamon, three cups vinegar. Peel tomatoes 
and onions, chop all fine and boil one hour and a half. 
—Mrs. K. T. Griffith. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twenty-four large, ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, 
or two red ones, eight large onions, eight teacups vine- 
gar, four tablespoons salt, eight tablespoons sugar, two 
teaspoons ginger, two teaspoons cloves, four teaspoons 
cinnamon. Chop fine and boil altogether two hours. — 
Mrs. Pur man. 

Chili Sauce. 

Four dozen large tomatoes, one dozen large onions, 
one dozen large green peppers, eight teacups cider vin- 
egar, ten tablespoons brown sugar, six tablespoons salt, 
six teaspoons ginger, six teaspoons cloves, eight tea- 
spoons cinnamon. Peel tomatoes, chop and drain. 
Chop onions and peppers fine. Boil all about three 
hours. — Mrs. A. Blitz. 



110 PICKLES. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Fifty cucumbers, grated : twenty medium-sized onions, 
peeled and chopped fine : sprinkle with three-fourths of 
a pint of fine salt; put on sieve to drain over night. 
Add one-half cup of mustard seed, one-half cup of 
ground black pepper. Mix and cover with cider vin- 
egar. — Mrs. Julia II G-oodhart. 

Plum Catsup. 

One peek of plums, five pounds of sugar, two quarts 
of vinegar. Boil two hours. — Mrs. W. W. Catlin. 

Currant Catsup. 

Five pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two tablespoons cloves, one pint 
of eider vinegar. Boil two hours. — Mrs. W. W. Catlin. 

Cold Catsup. 

( hie peck of ripe tomatoes, chopped and juice drained 
off; one and one-fourth cup of salt ; one cup of mustard : 
two tablespoons of black pepper; two tablespoons oi 
red pepper; one cup of onions: one teaspoon of cloves; 
one teaspoon of mace: one teaspoon of cinnamon; one 
cup of sugar; three pints of vinegar. — Mrs. Mary Wil- 
liams. 

Cold Catsup. 

( >ne peck of ripe tomatoes, chopped hue and drained; 
three chopped onions; three heads of celery; one green 
pepper (chopped); two cups of sugar; one small cup of 
salt; three pints of cold vinegar; two tablespoons of 
black pepper ; one tablespoon of ground cloves ; one 
tablespoon of mace; one tablespoon of cinnamon; one- 
half cup of white mustard seed; one-half cup of brown 
mustard seed. Mix together cold and raw, put in 
cans and seal. — Mrs. Werbe. 



PICKLES. Ill 



Tomato Catsup. 



Wash and wipe a bushel of ripe tomatoes, slice 
them into stone jars or crocks, sprinkle one quart of 
salt among them, cover with a cloth and put in the 
sun to ferment. When well fermented, which will 
take three or four days, [tour off the water, pass the 
remainder through a sieve, and put on to boil. To 
each gallon of the juice add one coffee-cup of sugar, 
one pint of the best cider vinegar, and boil down to 
suit taste. Have the bottles ready, and put in each 
four cloves, six allspice, and, if desired, one-half lobe 
of garlic. Put in bottles while hot. seal and keep in a 
cool place. — Mrs. John R. Pen-son. 

Cold Tomato Catsup. 

One-half peck of tomatoes, peeled and chopped tine; 
two roots of horse-radish, grated; two red peppers, 
seeded, and chopped tine; one cup of nasturtiums, 
chopped fine; one cup of chopped onions; one cup of 
brown sugar; two-thirds of a cup of salt ; one-half cup 
each of brown and white mustard seed; one teaspoon 
ea<-h of cloves and mace; two teaspoons each of black 
pepper, cinnamon and celery seed; one quart of 
cider vinegar. This will keep without cooking or 
sealing. — Mrs. Julia H. Groodhart. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Stew and strain through a sieve one-half peck of 
tomatoes. Boil with one onion, two green peppers, 
two spoons of sugar, mace, allspice, cinnamon, cloves, 
nutmeg, black pepper and horse-radish. Add a cupful 
of vinegar when nearly done. Bottle and seal. — Anna 
Stratford. 



112 PICKLES. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Scald and sift tomatoes. To each bushel of fruit 
add two quarts of cider vinegar, salt to taste, three 
grated nutmegs, six chopped onions, three pounds of 
brown sugar, one tablespoon of red pepper, one table- 
spoon of black pepper, three tablespoons of cinnamon, 
one tablespoon of allspice. Cook until thick, then 
strain and add quarter of a pound of white mustard 
seed, two ounces of celery seed. — Mrs. A. Blitz. 



" Now, good digestion wait on appetite, 
And health on both.'' 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



"To everything a fitting place, a proper, honorable use." 

Blackberry Cordial. 

To one gallon of juice add four pounds of sugar, one 
ounce of cloves, two ounces essence of lemon. When 
boiled to proper thickness, add one quart of brandy 
before taking from fire. — Mrs. A. J. McConney. 

Egg Nogg. 

To a glass of milk add the beaten yolk of one 6gg 3 a 
pinch of salt, and sugar. Flavor to taste. Beat the 
white separately and add. — Mrs. S. I). Yeaton. 

Wine Whey. 

One cup of milk, one-half cup of wine. Heat milk 
nearly to boiling and add wine. After it Curdles, strain 

and sweeten. Will make one glass. — Mrs. S. D. Yeaton. 

Cream Beer. 

Four pounds of sugar, three quarts of water, four 
ounces of tartaric acid. Put together, boil and strain 
well. When nearly cold add the whites oi three eggs, 
well beaten, with half a teacup of Hour, an ounce of 
wintergreen, and the juice of one lemon. Lottie and 
put in a eool place. When used, put three tablespoons 
in one u'lass of water with one-quarter teaspoon of 
soda. — Mrs. Minnie Merritt F<nj. 
8 



114 MISCELLANEOUS. 



Mustard. 

Two heaping tablespoons of mustard, butter half the 

size of an egg, one-half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon 
of sugar. Put in a dish, add enough boiling water to 
dissolve, and beat to a smooth paste. Boil about three- 
fourths of a enp of vinegar, pour into it, and let it 
cook till it thickens. — Bessie Graham. 

How to Make Good Baking Powder. 

To have good baking powder, and a kind that never 
tails, take one pound of cream tartar and half-pound of 
soda, and two heaping tablespoons of flour. Sift through 
the flour sifter about six times, to have it thoroughly 
blended. — Mrs. Louis Eichrodt. 

To Corn Beef. 

Take six pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one 
and one-half pounds of sugar, six gallons of water. 
Boil all together; let stand until cold; pack the beef 
well, then pour the solution over it. — Mrs. Davis. 

Cure for Toothache. 

Bind roast onion hot on pulse. — Mrs. S. D. Yeaton. 

Clothes Cleaning Mixture. 

One ounce of castile soap, one-quarter pound aqua 
ammonia, one ounce sulph. ammonia ether, one ounce 
of alcohol. Shave the soup tine and dissolve in two 
quarts of soft water, then add the other four ingredi- 
ents. — Mrs. Runnels. 

To Clean Glass Bottles. 

Shake thoroughly with lukewarm water and raw po- 
tatoes cut in small pieces. — Mrs. George Hamilton. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 115 



Cement for Glass, Porcelain, etc. 

Put into a heated tin spoon a little vinegar, in which 
dissolve' a little white gelatine and a few grains of bi- 
chromate of potassium. — Emma I>. Mohr. 

The luster of morocco may be restored by varnish- 
ing with white of an egg, applied with a sponge. — Mrs. 
Tzor. 

Dressing for Furniture. 

One-half [tint of alcohol, one-half ounce each of resin 
and gum shellac, one-fourth ounce oil citronella, and 
one grain red aniline. Let stand till dissolved, then add 
three-fourths of a pint each of raw linseed oil and tur- 
pentine. Apply with a piece of cotton flannel and rub 
dry with cotton or woolen cloth. — Mrs. Marshall. 

Paper can be removed from cake by inverting the 
latter on a cake-board, and after it has cooled a little 
brushing the paper with water until it is dampened. — 
Mrs. Bye. 

Cement for Wood, Pottery, etc. 

Mix equal parts of brown shellac and pumice-stone. 
Apply mixture while hot. — Emma D. Mohr. 

For Cleaning Brass. 

One ounce of oxalic acid dissolved in one pint of 
water. Five cents' worth of powdered pumice-stone. 
Use like whiting. — Emma I). M<>/ir. 

Blue Dye. 

P^or two pounds, take one ounce of copperas. Soak 
the goods one hour in the solution, then dry. Make a 
dye of one ounce of prussiate of potash. Let the 



11<> MISCELLANEOUS. 



goods lie in it one hour. Then take it out and add 
one-half ounce of sulphuric acid to the dye Soak the 
goods in this, and let it dry sonic time before wash- 
ing. — Mrs. Davis. 

Scarlet Dye. 
For throe pounds of rags, take three and one-half 
ounces of cochineal, pulverized and rubbed through a 
cloth into just enough rainwater to cover the rags after 
they have been wet. Add ten cents' worth of tartaric 
acid. Let this all simmer together for one-half hour. 
Lift the rags out, let drain, then add one and one-half 
ounces of muriate of tin. Return the rags to the dye. 
Let stand a few minutes and they will be ready to 
dry. — Mrs. Bar is. 

Dredging a little flour over the top of a cake will 
keep the icing from running. 

The cooler the eggs the quicker the)' will froth. 

Fish may he scaled more easily if dipped in boiling 
water. 

Cut hot bread with a hot knife. 

Keep an oyster shell in the kettle to prevent a crust 
forming on the kettle. 

If you will put a tin of water in the oven your cake 
or meat will not burn. 

When cooking onions set a tin of vinegar on the 
stove, let it boil, and you will have no disagreeable 
smell. 

To take the lt fishy" smell from your skillet after fry- 
ing tish, put soap and water in the skillet and let boil 
for ten minutes. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 1 1 7 



One or two tablespoons of ammonia added to a pail 
of water will clean windows better than soap. 

When troubled with soreness or sense of tightness in 
the chest, dampen a flannel cloth with kerosene and ap- 
ply over the spot. Do not leave it on too long or it 
will blister. One night will usually relieve the soreness. 

Confectioners' sugar is a very fine powdered sugar, 
called by the trade XX XX. For all candy creams, 
icings, sherbets and sweets in general, this sugar is 
preferable to either cut-loaf or granulated, and its cost 
is about equal. 



Can you think of 

Having any 

Rugs, Curtains, Scarfs or 

Interior adornments 

Selected 

That 

May not be 

Added unto in worth and 
beauty by 

Seeing and buying of 

CARPETS, DRAPERIES, WALL PAPER, 

The Largest House in the State. 



new 
\ 

of 

old 
Sto- 

*1 




\ff^'^\\<ir^WQJrl itffkc croWj^afoTi a."tree 








nA l^% Were ^la^K^c crows could be" ^ 
— ^J))o-S said, oi^e Woiili I WefcTW/jfta 

— - lusted of b<L\n$ blAciC^s ni^hit 

Mu^dW^ovyo of^jfo it^a ke yo uTW/j ; fe 
ViF be ajj €d.sy rafter quite, 
Y($\ I was t/ou. wfi M^nte j>pa7i 




X X X X X >< X >< X X X x xhxx'^- 

tvo/i^er of WorT^er^/ j'dffy 1% CfoW^ 

^i/lsuV£ydllfte\CrlAclelf$h^ " 

1*1 usin^^LJitij. (jau$ §oajifor <xU 

Tfce Jf^S €\o)& Tie cAs-tuff Jr€<xV <mA Smal \ J 
ffior dj'sfTes, baJbi^yipT^ diid /zdoi^f 

TorWoolerz, C;ol7orz. y &a\n^ldce- 
T^or ckdT2$irz§ every diny*/?lAce., 
?o^ //id"'' S^ »^d/(etX kla^/^jra^w/^jfe. 





D. H. BALDWIN & CO., 

Pianos and Organs 

JvlOST FAVO^ABbE TEf^S. 

Jf?<? "pisefper piar>o" at tr?e U/l?ice j^ouje. 



Executive Mansion, Washington, December 16, 1888. 
Gentlemen — It affords me much pleasure to inform you that the piano 
which 1 ordered from you lor a Christmas present to my mother, has been 
received. My mother joins me in expressing to you our great satisfaction 
uith the piano, its tone being very sweet, sympathetic and powerful, and 
the touch and action all that could be desired. The case is beautiful in 
design and finish. I thank you tor the careful attention you have given 
to this order. Yours truly. RUSSELL R. HARRISON. 

To Messrs. J. & V. Fischer, 110 Fifth Ace., New York City, 

What the Vice-President of the United States has to say about the 
" Fischer Piano." 

Ellerslie, Rhinbcliff-on-Hddson, November 11,1888. 
Dear Sir— The piano made by Messrs. J. & C. Fischer h-is given entire 
satisfaction in every respect. Yours faithfully, LEVI P. MORTON. 



D. H. BALDWIN & CO., 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Decker Bros., Haines 

Bros., Fischer, D. H. Baldwin & Co., and other 

PIANOS, and Estey and Story & 

Clark ORGANS. 

95' 97> anc ' 99 North Pennsylvania Street, 

INDIANAPOLIS. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 795 A 



