
TAR 



CRYSTALS 



FLINT 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Shelf.. 



'5%<\ 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



1-1 


'.■' 






I 


. 




1 




t 





THE 



STAR CRYSTAL 



COOK BOOK. 




EDITED BY 

MISS MARY L. CLARKE. 

PRINCIPAL MILWAUKEE COOKING SCHOOL. 

Price 50 Cents. 



1890. 
PUBLISHED BY 

J. G. FLINT, MILWAUKEE. 



1 e- 



Copyright, 1890~byT~gTfi^ 



Preface. 



In the multitude of cook-books of all degrees of excellence 
the only excuse for another must be found in its meeting a want 
often felt though not always recognized. 

This little work brings together in convenient form a few of 
the most desirable recipes from many standard authorities. 

The compiler is especially indebted to Mrs. Lincoln's Boston 
Cook-Book, Miss Parloa's Kitchen Companion, Deliee's Franco- 
American Cookery Book, and Filipini's admirable chapter on 
Sauces in "The Table.' ' 

For recipes both new and old, grateful acknowledgements 
are also due to the many friends and pupils who have generously 
shared their manuscript treasures, some of which are now 
printed for the first time. 

May "The Star Crystal Cook Book " find its place in many 
kitchens for daily reference and prove a daily helper. 

MARY L. CLARKE. 

Note. — The recipes marked S. are furnished by Mr. Ernest 
Schafer, cook at the White House during the administration of 
Pres. Garfield, and since then belief in one of the leading hotels 
of the Northwest. 



Table of Equivalents. 



A speck makes one-quarter saltspoonful. 

Ten eggs, average size, make one pound. 

Four saltspoonfuls make one teaspoonful. 

One-half ounce bottle extract makes 12 teaspoonfuls. 

Three teaspoonfuls make one table spoonful. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of dry or solid materials make 1 cup. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls of liquid material make 1 cup. 

Two gills make 1 cup. 

One wine glass makes one-half gill. 

One cup contains eight ounces of liquid. 

One tablespoonful butter makes one ounce. 

One tablespoonful granulated sugar makes one ounce. 

One heaped tablespoonful powdered sugar makes one ounce. 

One tablespoonful flour makes one-half ounce. 

Two tablespoonfuls ground spice make one ounce. 

Five nutmegs make one ounce. 

One quart sifted pastry flour makes one pound. 

One quart less one gill, sifted patent flour makes one pound. 

One scant pint granulated sugar makes one pound. 

One pint butter makes one pound. 

One pint chopped meat, packed, makes one pound. 

One cup rice makes one-half pound. 

One cup cornmeal makes six ounces. 

One cup stemmed raisins makes six ounces. 

One cup cleaned currants makes six ounces. 

One cup stale bread crumbs makes two ounces. 



Table of Proportions. 



One quart of flour requires one pint of butter, or butter 
and lard mixed for pastry. 

One quart of flour requires one heaping tablespoonful of 
butter for biscuit. 

One quart of flour requires two tablespoonful s of butter for 
shortcakes. 

One quart of flour requires one cup of butter for cup cakes. 

One quart of flour requires one-half level teaspoonful of 
salt. 

One quart of flour requires three teaspoonfuls of Star Crystal 
Baking Powder. 

One quart of flour requires one pint of milk for muffins, 
gems, etc. 

One quart of flour requires one scant quart of milk for 
batters of all kinds. 

One measure of liquid to three measures flour for bread. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one cup of molasses. 

One teaspoonful of salt to one pound of meat. 

A spoonful means that the material should lie as much above 
the edge of the spoon as the bowl sinks below it. A heaping 
teaspoonful means that the material should lie twice as high 
above the edge of the spoon as the bowl sinks below it. A level 
teaspoonful should hold 60 drops of water. All dry materials 
are measured after sifting 

A spoonful of salt, pepper, soda, spice is a level spoonful. 

One-half of a spoonful is measured by dividing through the 
middle lengthwise. 

A speck is what can be placed within a quarter inch square 
surface. 



How to Make Bread. 



Sift seven pounds of flour in a deep pan, make a hole in the 
center of the flour, into which pour one quart of warm water, in 
which has been dissolved one cake of good yeast. 

Beat the mixture well with a large spoon, cover with flour 
and set to rise in a warm place; -in two hours it will be ready 
for kneading. 

Dissolve a handful of salt in about three pints of warm water, 
with which make the whole into a soft dough, knead well with 
your hands and set to rise for two or three hours. Then work 
and make into loaves, set to rise again about two hours and then 
bake in a good hot oven. This will make nine loaves of bread. 

S. 

WATER BREAD, NO. 2. 

One quart patent flour, sifted, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
half teaspoonful sugar, one level tablespoonful butter or lard, 
one-quarter ounce compressed yeast dissolved in one-half cup 
tepid water, one pint warm water. Measure flour, sugar and 
salt into a six-quart mixing-bowl. Pour hot water enough to 
dissolve it onto the shortening, then add cold water to make just 
one pint of water at the right temperature (about 80 degrees), 
mix in the dissolved yeast and make a batter with the flour, 
beating well. 

Add more flour till the mixture is stiff enough to handle on 
the moulding board; knead hard and long, not less than twenty 
minutes, using as little flour as possible to keep it from sticking. 
Remember that a soft sponge makes a much more delicate, 
tender bread that will keep moist longer than a hard, stiff sponge. 



8 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

Cover closely with cloth and tin cover, and let rise till it 
doubles its bulk. Cut it down and let rise again; divide into 
four parts and shape into round loaves putting two in each pan, 
or shape part as biscuit. Cover and let rise to double its bulk. 
Bake in a hot oven about forty-five minutes. Take from the 
pans as soon as done and wrap in a thick cloth used for no other 
purpose. Lay on a rack to cool and turn the baking pans over 
them to secure a thin papery crust. A large stone jar is the best 
thing to keep bread in, and loaves must not be put away until 
entirely cold. 

MILK BREAD, WITH A SPONGE. 

Pour one pint of scalding milk on one tablespoonful each of 
butter and sugar and one-half teaspoonful salt; when lukewarm 
add one-quarter cup yeast (one-half cup if mixed in the morning). 
Stir in three and one-half cups of flour and beat well. Let it 
rise over night or till very light, then add enough more flour to 
knead and work it till smooth and fine grained. Let it rise in 
the bowl, cutting down two or three times. This makes an 
excellent rule for tea-biscuit, Parker-House and other rolls, and 
by doubling the measure of butter and adding the white of an 
egg well beaten, you have the delicious White Mountain rolls. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint milk, scalded and cooled, two tablespoonfuls brown 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quarter ounce yeast dis- 
solved in one-half cup water, sifted Graham meal enough to 
make a dough as stiff as can be beaten with a wooden spoon — 
about six cups. Mix in the order given and beat till smooth; let 
rise very light, then with knife and spoon shape into loaves in 
the pans, let rise again to double its bulk. Bake in a less hot 
oven than is needed for white bread, and a little longer. 



STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups rye meal, one cup corn meal, one-third cup 
molasses, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
two tablespoonfuls water, one pint sour milk, steam four hours. 



BREAD, ETC. 9 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

One pint of milk, half a cup of home made yeast, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, rise over night, in the morning 
add one egg, one tablespoonful of butter and flour enough to 
make it stiff to roll, mix well and let rise, then knead it again, 
roll out, cut with a round tin and fold over; put in a pan, and 
cover very close, let them rise again until they are very light, 
and bake in hot oven. S. 



GRAHAM BREAD, NO. 2. 

Two cups of buttermilk, one-half cup of best syrup, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of salt, stir with a 
spoon to a stiff mass (not too stiff), put it into a three pint or 
a two quart basin well buttered, put into a steamer over cold 
water which gives the loaf more time to rise ; steam about one 
hour, then place in the oven, and give it a brown color. S. 



GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

One pound of flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, one egg, two tablespoonful s of butter, 
two of sugar, mix light and add milk enough to make a stiff 
dough, cut out with a cutter and bake in a moderate oven. S. 



CRACKERS. 

One cup of buttermilk, one-half a cup of butter and four 
eggs; knead hard, pound the dough until like honey comb. 8. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt, three rounded 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, enough cold milk to make a stiff dough (patent flour will 
require about one pint). Mix all the dry materials, then rub in 
the butter with the fingers until the whole is fine as meal, add 
the milk gradually, mixing and cutting through with a knife till 
the whole is a light spongy mass. Turn on a well-floured board 



10 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

and press out with the hands to three-fourths of an inch thick, 
cut in rather small rounds and bake at once in a very hot oven. 



TWIN BISCUIT. 

Make as above and roll only one-half as thick. Spread the 
rounds with soft butter, put two together and bake quick. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two coffee cups graham meal, one pint cold water mixed 
well together at night. Next morning add one tablespoonful 
butter, melted, one level teaspoonful salt, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder. Put into heated gem 
irons and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. S. 

WHITE-HOUSE TEA BISCUITS. 

To one and one-half quarts of flour add three heaping 
teaspoonfuls of Star Crystal Baking Powder, sift well, rub six 
ounces of best butter into the flour as fine as possible, add cold 
milk enough to make a short dough, mix light with a spoon 
(do not use hands for mixing) roll out to the thickness of an 
inch, cut out with a small cutter, sprinkle the top with well- 
beaten yolk of an egg, and bake rather quick. S. 

RICH BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

One quart of flour, three heaping teaspoonfuls of Star Crystal 
Baking Powder, two eggs, one or two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one pint of milk, one-half cup of sugar. Mix thoroughly, drop 
into well-greased forms and bake in a hot oven. S. 

MUFFINS, NO. 1. 

One pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking 
Powder, one cup milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful butter, melted, mix flour, baking powder, and 
salt together, beat the eggs to a cream, add the milk to them and 
mix with the flour to a smooth paste. Lastly, beat in the melted 
butter and bake in buttered muffin pans about thirty minutes. 



BREAD, ETC. 11 

MUFFINS NO. 2, ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

One quart of flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, one-third cake (one 
ounce cake) compressed yeast, one and one-half cup of warm 
water. Dissolve the yeast in one-third cup of cold water, add 
it with the salt and the warm water and gradually stir it into 
the flour. Beat the dough thoroughly ; cover and let rise in a 
warm place until spongy, about five hours. Then shape the 
dough on a floured board into balls about twice as large as an 
egg. Flatten to one-third of an inch thick. Lay these on a warm 
griddle which has been lightly greased and set on the back of 
the stove to rise slowly. As soon as they have risen a little 
draw them forward and cook slowly, turning often. 

They should take about twenty minutes to rise and fifteen 
minutes to bake. Tear them apart and butter them while hot. 

Miss Parloa. 

PLAIN MUFFINS NO. 3. 

One quart of flour, half a cup of butter melted, one egg, a 
quarter of a cup of sugar, two cups of milk, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of Star Crystal Baking Powder, a pinch of salt, mixed 
well and bake in a quick oven in muffin rings. 

RYE BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

One cup rye meal, one cup flour, one cup milk, one-quarter 
cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, one egg well beaten. Mix all the dry 
materials. Add milk to the beaten egg and beat well together. 
Bake twenty minutes in muffin tins in a quick oven. 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Add another egg to the above mixture and milk enough to 
drop by teaspoonfuls into hot fat; or, they are delicious to omit 
the sugar and eat them hot with maple syrup for breakfast. 

RYE MUFFINS, NO. 2. 

One-half teaspoonful soda, one-half teaspoonful salt, one cup 
sour cream, one cup rye flour, one tablespoonful sugar, one cup 



12 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

wheat flour. Roll rather thin on a baking sheet, split and serve 
with cream and salt, or pour thickened milk as for milk toast, 
over it. 

ROYAL MUFFINS. 

Two cups "cerealine," three cups flour, one pint milk, three 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, two eggs, one tablespoonful butter. Sift flour, sugar, salt 
and baking powder together; add "cerealine," the milk and 
beaten eggs; lastly the butter, melted, beat hard for two min- 
utes, fill muffin pans two-thirds full and bake about twenty 
minutes in hot oven. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup corn-meal, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful 
salt, one even tablespoonful butter, five cups boiling water. At 
night mix the meal, salt, sugar, in top of double boiler; add the 
boiling water and butter and cook one hour. Turn into a mixing 
bowl and pour over it one-quarter cup water to keep a crust from 
forming. In the morning beat it up soft and smooth, mix one 
and one-half cups fine yellow corn flour, one and one-half cups 
white flour, two even teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder 
and stir into the mixture. Add one egg well beaten, bake in 
iron gem pans in a hot oven; or, in the morning add one cup 
each of corn, rye and wheat flour; or, one and one-half corn, 
one graham, one-half cup wheat flour. These are good enough 
to pay for the extra trouble of cooking the evening before using. 
This rule makes fifteen muffins. Boston Cook Book. 

CORN BREAD. 

One quart of sweet milk, corn-meal enough to thicken, three 
eggs, half a cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of Star Crystal Baking Powder and bake 
in a hot oven. S. 

SPONGE CORN BREAD. 

One cup flour, two eggs well beaten, one-half cup of corn- 
meal, one and one quarter cups milk, one-half teaspoonful salt, 



BREAD, ETC. 13 

one teaspoonful butter, melted, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal 
Baking Powder. Mix in order given and bake in a shallow 
round pan, or square cake tin. Boston Cook Book. 

CORN AND RICE CAKES. 

One pint white corn-meal, one teaspoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful flour, one cup cold boiled rice, one egg well beaten, one 
pint of milk, one tablespoonful melted butter, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, bake in muffin pans about 
twenty minutes. 

HOMINY AND CORN MEAL CAKES. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls fine uncooked hominy, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one tablespoonful butter, one-half cup of boiling 
water. Set over the boiling teakettle till the water is all 
absorbed, pour one cup boiling milk on one scant cup of corn- 
meal, add two tablespoonfuls sugar and the hominy, ^ool and 
whisk in two eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately) , one heap- 
ing teaspoonful Star Crystal Baking Powder. Bake in gem pans 
twenty minutes. Boston Cook Book. 

PEARLED CORN MEAL CAKE. 

One cup N. Y. Health Food Co.'s pearled corn-meal, one-half 
cup flour, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, two eggs, one cup sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful butter, melted. Mix in order given, 
bake about one-half inch thick, in a rather quick oven. 

THIN CORN CAKE. 

One cup corn-meal (yellow), one-quarter teaspoonful salt, 
one round tablespoonful butter, one-half cup boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful sugar. Pour the boiling water on meal, sugar and salt. 
Beat thoroughly. Add the butter and when well mixed spread 
very thin on buttered tin sheets. Bake slowly about twenty 
minutes. 



14 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

One quart flour, one- teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, three eggs well beaten with two table- 
spoonfuls sugar, one pint milk, one heaping tablespoonful butter 
softened enough to beat it. Beat very smooth ; makes two square 
pans. 

QUICK COFFEE BREAD. 

Same as above, using five eggs and sprinkling sugar on top 
with a little cinnamon, instead of mixing it with the dough. 

MARGERY DAW'S TEA CAKES. 

One cup milk, one pint flour, three eggs, butter the size of an 
egg, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder. Bake 
twenty minutes in muffin pans. 

BLUEBERRY-TEA CAKE. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, and two of Star Crystal 
Baking Powder sifted with the flour. One cup sugar, two eggs, 
one pint sweet milk, one-half cup butter, melted, beat all well 
together ; then add one pint blue-berries or huckle-berries 
that have been picked over and well dusted with flour. Stir 
carefully, not to break the berries. Fill pans about three- 
quarters full and bake about one-half an hour in a moderate 
oven. Serve with stewed berries. Mrs. Helen Campbell. 

SQUASH MUFFINS 

One pint flour, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, four tablespoonfuls sugar, two 
cups sifted squash, and milk enough to make a drop batter 
(about 1 cup). Bake like Tea Cakes. 

GERMAN PANCAKES. 

Two cups of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful Star Crystal 
Baking Powder, sift well, a little salt, one cup of milk, beat alto- 
gether well, not too thin and fry in hot butter. Use small frying 
pan. S. 



BREAD, ETC. 15 

FRENCH PANCAKES. 

Two cups flour, three eggs, one heaping teaspoonful Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, a little salt, one cup of milk. Beat well 
together for five minutes and fry in hot butter, roll up and fill 
with any kind of fruit, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over the 
top and serve hot. S. 



PLAIN WHEAT CAKES. 

Make a batter with one quart of flour, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder well sifted, add milk 
enough to smoothen, beat two eggs, one-half cup of melted but- 
ter, a little salt, mix well and bake on hot griddle. S. 



PANCAKES, NO. 2. 

Beat three eggs with a pint of milk, add a pinch of salt, one 
teaspoonful Star Crystal Baking Powder and sufficient flour to 
make it into a smooth batter, fry them in hot butter, roll them over 
on each side, drain and serve very hot with lemon and sugar. 

S. 

PANCAKES, NO. 3. 

One pint flour, one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, three eggs well beaten, butter the size 
of an egg, melted and beaten in with two cups of milk. 

The griddle should never be greased, but rubbed smooth 
with brown paper and salt, and should be hot enough to hiss as 
the batter is poured on it. Bake till full of fine holes, then turn 
and bake on other side till it falls a little. Pancakes should not 
be turned the second time. 



WAFFLES, NO. 1. 

Using the above mixture with only one and one-quarter 
cups of milk makes a batter right for cooking in waffle irons. If 
sour cream can be had, omit the butter and Baking Powder, using 
one teaspoonful soda instead. 



16 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

INDIAN WAFFLES. 

One-half cup Indian meal, one tablespoonful butter and two 
cups boiling milk. Beat smooth and set away to cool. When 
cool, add two eggs, one round cup of flour, one teaspoonful Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, bake as usual. 

RAISED WAFFLES, NO. 2. 

One pint milk, one and one-half pints flour, one egg, one 
teaspoonful salt, one-quarter ounce compressed yeast dissolved 
in two tablespoonfuls tepid water. Beat all well together and 
let rise, covered, for four hours. Cook as above. S. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

Stir one cup warm boiled rice into the first mixture for 
waffles and bake as before. 

WAFFLES, NO. 3. 

Beat carefully into one quart of flour, one quart of sweet 
milk, one cup of melted butter, and one-half teaspoonful salt, a 
half cup of home-made yeast. When raised add two eggs, beat 
them well and let rise again. When light enough bake in hot 
waffle irons and sprinkle a little sugar over them. 

SHORT CAKE, NO. 1. 

(For Strawberries or Peaches.) 
One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls Star 
Crystal Baking Powder sifted with it, rub in one-half cup butter 
and one-half cup lard, one and one-quarter cup milk. Bake in 
two long biscuit tins, marking off in squares before baking. Bake 
in a very quick oven till a good brown. Use a generous quart of 
fruit for each layer, dusting thick with powdered sugar. Pile 
whipped cream on the top layer just before serving. 

SHORT CAKE, NO. 2. 

One pint flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
Star Crystal Baking Powder sifted together, one-quarter cup 



BREAD, ETC. 17 

■* 

butter rubbed in, one egg, one scant cup milk. Bake one-half 
inch thick. 



SHORT CAKE, NO. 3. 

Beat 3 eggs very light (not less than ten minutes of rapid 
beating) add one and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup cold 
water, two cups pastry flour, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Bak- 
ing Powder. Whisk very quickly together and bake in three 
jelly-cake tins about ten minutes. 

RYE SHORT CAKE. 

One pint rye meal, one teaspoonful salt, one pint wheat 
flour, one tablespoonful lard well rubbed in, three heaping 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, sweet milk enough to 
roll out. Bake one inch thick on a tin sheet for about forty 
minutes. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, NO. 1. 

Fill a two quart granite ware pan two-thirds full of tart 
apples, pared, quartered and cored, add one-half cup water, 
cover and set on stove to cook while preparing crust; mix well 
together one quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls 
Star Crystal Baking Powder, one-half eup butter rubbed into the 
flour till fine as meal. Add enough sweet milk to make a dough 
as soft as can be handled easily. Roll out to exactly fit the pan, 
cut several gashes to let the steam escape; lay it over the hot 
apples and cover with a deep pie plate. Cook on top of the 
stove for half an hour, setting the pan on a trivet if necessary to 
keep the apple from burning. Then lift the cover and brown 
the crust in a hot oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, NO. 2. 

Make biscuit crust as in No. 1, but add flour to roll out. Core 
and quarter two large apples; roll each quarter in a small piece 
of crust and lay in a well buttered biscuit tin. Dot them with 
bits of butter and sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Set the tin into the oven and pour on boiling water to nearly 
cover. Bake about thirty minutes in an oven hot enough to 
have them browned in that time. 



18 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Prepare a rich short cake crust, using cream to mix it if pos- 
sible. Fill a granite baking dish about one-half full with pared 
and stoned peaches. Allow one quart sugar to each quart of 
fruit. Cover and bake for an hour or longer until the peaches 
show a dark red color. Cool and serve with sugar and cream. 

DOUGHNUTS, NO. 1. 

One-half cup sugar, two eggs, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, one saucespoonful salt, beaten well together. Add one- 
half cup milk and two cups flour in which has been sifted two 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder. If not stiff enough to 
roll, knead in more flour. 

DOUGHNUTS, NO. 2 

One heaping cup of sugar, one quart flour, one-half teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, two eggs, wet with milk enough to roll 
out and shape. It will take a little more than one cup. Fry 
in fat enough to brown them in about two minutes. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint milk scalded and cooled, one cup of sugar, one 
saltspoonful salt, one-half cup butter, two-thirds cup yeast, one 
egg, one-half a nutmeg. Flour to knead like bread but rather 
soft. Rise six to eight hours, then roll and cut in shape, rise 
again and fry. 

CRULLERS. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful Star Crystal Baking Powder and as much flour as can be 
worked in with a spoon, one teaspoonful essence of lemon. Cut 
in thin strips and plait them', fry very dry in moderately hot fat. 

S. 

GINGER CRULLERS. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, two eggs, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful melted butter, one teaspoonful each of 



BREAD, ETC. 19 

ginger and cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking 
Powder, one teaspoonful salt, flour to roll as soft as can be easily 
handled. Fry as usual and roll in powdered sugar as soon as 
done. Creole Cook Book. 

SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs beaten light, one cup sugar, one cup sour cream, 
four cups flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon and salt. Have board well floured and take on it one 
large spoonful of dough, kneading gently till firm enough to roll 
out and cut. Mix the trimmings with a fresh spoonful and roll 
again, repeating until all are used. Cook in fat hot enough to 
make them rise instantly to the top. Mrs. Henderson. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

Two eggs beaten smooth, one cup flour, one-half teaspoonful 
Star Crystal Baking Powder, one-half cup milk, one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful salad oil. Beat with Dover beater till 
glossy and smooth. If intended for fruit add one teaspoonful 
sugar. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Cut the fruit in thin small sections ; dip each in the batter 
and fry a handsome brown. Serve with sauce made by boiling 
the juice of the pineapple with one-half cup sugar, and adding 
one tablespoonful Curacoa to it just before serving. 

SHADDOCK FRITTERS. 

Make batter as before, using the juice of the fruit instead of 
milk. Tear the pulp in small bits and mix well through the 
whole. * Be careful not to let any of the white fibre get into the 
pulp. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Pick over and parboil the oysters ; drain them well and use 
their liquor in place of milk to mix in the batter, adding more 
salt and pepper if needed. 



20 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

BRAIN FRITTERS. 

Clean the brain, removing the red membrane and clots of 
blood if there are any. Soak in cold salted water one hour. 
Then put them into one pint cold water with tablespoonful 
lemon juice and one-half teaspoonful salt. Bring to boil as soon 
as possible, boil gently ten minutes then plunge into cold water 
until wanted. Dry gently on a soft cloth ; cut into sections con- 
venient for serving ; roll each in fritter batter, which should be 
made a trifle stiffer than for the other dishes. Drop into'hot fat 
and fry a handsome brown. Drain each piece on clean brown 
paper in a warm oven before serving. Have ready some stalks 
of parsley washed and dried. Plunge these into the hot fat for 
one minute until they become crisp, but do not let them lose 
their color. Serve on a folded napkin, dressing with the crisp 
parsley. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Vegetables of any kind should be thoroughly cooked, drained 
and either chopped fine or cut in pieces convenient for serving 
before being added to the batter. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

One cup chicken-stock, one heaping tablespoonful flour, one 
tablespoonful butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful celery salt, one cup cold chicken. Mix the flour smoothly in 
the hot butter, add the boiling stock gradually and when smooth, 
the seasoning, let simmer till quite thick. Pour half the sauce 
onto a small platter, and spread the chopped chicken evenly 
over the top. Then cover with the remainder of the sauce. 
Place on ice and when cold and hard cut into inch by two inch 
pieces. Dip them quickly into fritter batter and fry in deep, hot 
fat. Mrs. D. A. Lincoln. 

GERMAN FLOUR DUMPLINGS. 

One and one-half quart flour, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal 
Baking Powder, mix well through a sieve beat two eggs and add 
cold water enough to make a stiff dough, set in a cool place for 



BREAD, ETC. 21 

two hours, cut out with a spoon, and boil in saltwater for twenty 
minutes. S. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Cut one-half inch slices of stale bread, soak them each side 
in milk enough to soften, then dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker 
dust and fry in hot lard, and serve with cream sauce. S„ 

POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Boil one dozen potatoes, peel and set them to cool. When 
cold break them into a bowl, add nix well beaten eggs, a little 
nutmeg, salt, pepper, one cup of flour and work it to a stiff 
dough, form into round balls and boil in salt water about twenty 
minutes. S. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Hints on the Easiest Way 
in Cake Making. 



Make ready all the materials before beginning to put any 
cake together; that is, see that flour, butter and sugar are 
weighed or measured as the receipt calls for. Let the fire be in 
good condition to finish baking without putting on fresh coal. 
If the fire is too hot, discourage it by leaving the griddles open 
for five minutes or less, then sprinkle on a little fresh coal with- 
out increasing the draft. Leave the oven doors open a few min- 
utes before putting in a sponge cake, if it is still too fierce If too 
hot on top, set a pan of cold water on the grate above the cake, 
never lay a paper over it. Thin cakes need a hotter oven than 
loaves and should bake in ten minutes; sheets of cake in from 
fifteen minutes to one-half hour; loaves from one-half hour to 
an hour, while fruit cake will require from two to four hours. 
Do not attempt to bake a fruit cake weighing over fifteen pounds 
in an ordinary stove oven. Send it to some first-class baker 
unless you are so fortunate as to have an old-fashioned brick 
oven in your house. Whatever kind of cake you are baking, 
divide the time into quarters; during the first quarter it should 
not change except by rising; during the second it should finish 
rising and begin to brown; during the third and fourth finish 
browning, settle a very little and shrink from the pan. On first 
taking from the oven, set for a few minutes on a stove hearth or 
shelf where you can barely hold your hand. A very light, deli- 
cate cake will fall if cooled too quickly, or shaken while hot. 

Pans should be greased with sweet lard or unsalted beef fat, 
as butter scorches so easily ; line them with paper and grease 
the paper very little, if the paper is thin, not at all. In baking 
pound or fruit cake line the pan with more than one thickness 

25 



26 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK, 

of paper, on the bottom there may be as many as six, but in such 
cases only the layer of paper next to the cake needs to be 
greased* 

Mix cake in an earthen bowl and always with a wooden 
spoon (or the hand). Use only best materials; it is better to go 
without cake than try to make it, or eat it when made with 
"cooking" butter, second rate eggs or low grade baking powders. 

Coarse texture with large holes shows insufficient beating 
and too large a measure of baking powder. Brown sugar may 
be used for fruit cake, but finest granulated (or sifted) is the 
best. Coarse granulated sugar makes heavy cake with a hard 
sticky crust, powdered sugar makes a tight, close-grained cake, 
and measure for measure is not as sweet as the granulated ; if 
weighed there is not much if any difference. The receipts in 
this book are proportioned for patent flour; if pastry flour is 
used take about one-eighth more. 

Never beat eggs until the last possible moment before using; 
in beating whites of eggs with a Dover beater, hold it as nearly 
as possible to the horizontal instead of perpendicular and there 
will be nearly one-half greater bulk of foam than when beaten 
as usual. Eggs will beat up lighter if laid on ice till chilled 
through before using. Baking powder should be sifted with a 
part of the flour and added with the white of egg at the last. 

Measure exactly and use all the materials. A teaspoonful of 
butter left sticking to the measuring cup, a tablespoonful of milk 
spilled on the table, one-half an egg left not wiped from the 
shells or at the bottom of the bowl in which it was beaten, does 
make a difference in the cake. With a small palette knife it is 
possible to scrape out the last speck of butter, every atom of 
egg, each grain of sugar and flour. 

In making butter cake mixtures observe the following order. 
Warm the bowl, and scald wooden spoon with boiling water, 
then wipe dry. Rub butter to a cream, add sugar and beat again 
until light. If the proportion of sugar is more than double the 
butter beat a part of it with the yolks of the eggs. Add a table- 
spoonful of flour before putting in any liquid to prevent curdling; 
beat in the beaten yolks, then add milk and flour alternately 
taking care not to let the mixture become very stiff nor very soft; 
lastly add the beaten whites and beat long and hard to make 
sure of having it smooth and fine grained. Fruit should be 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 27 

added last, or if in thin large pieces it may be put in layers as 
the dough is put into pans. 

Cake is baked when it shrinks from the pan and stops hissing; 
or when a straw thrust into the center comes out clean. Let 
stand on a warm surface five minutes or less, then turn out onto 
a sieve or wire netting (a window screen will do), remove paper 
at once, peeling it back in narrow strips to avoid taking off the 
brown crust. If the cake should happen to burn, rasp the too 
brown portion with a coarse grater. 

SPONGE CAKE, NO. 1. 

Six eggs, once their weight in finest granulated sugar, oAe- 
half their weight in flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon. Beat the eggs, yolks and whites 
together, with a spoon-whisk for twenty minutes, beating with a 
long, steady stroke; sift in the sugar with the left hand, 
keeping up the beating with the right, then add lemon juice and 
rind and lastly fold in the flour, not beating any more. If it has 
been put together right it will have a light spongy texture and 
seem rather dry. Bake in a rather deep tin about fifty minutes. 
Do not open the oven door for the first fifteen minutes, at the 
end of that time it should begin to rise, at the end of the next 
fifteen minutes it should double its bulk and by the end of the 
next twenty minutes it should be sufficiently browned and baked 
through. 

SPONGE CAKE, NO. 2. 

Three eggs beaten to a cream, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, add one-half cup of cold water, two cups of flour in which 
has been sifted two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, 
one saltspoonful salt and flavoring to suit the taste. (N. B. Try 
grated rind of one-half lemon.) Beat hard for two minutes and 
bake thirty to forty minutes in a rather quick oven. 

BERWICK SPONGE. 

Same receipt as above but the cake is beaten five minutes 
for each ingredient added. 

JELLY ROLL. 

One cup flour, one cup sugar, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
Star Crystal Baking Powder, three eggs well beaten. Mix in 



28 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

order given, beat well and pour into a smooth, well-greased pan; 
bake slow, spread jelly over and roll it up. 

Note. — Have ready a smooth sheet of brown paper well 
dusted with powdered sugar, turn your cake onto it and spread 
quickly with the jelly which should be well broken with a fork 
if at all stiff. With a sharp knife trim off all the crusty edges 
and roll it by lifting one side of the paper. The cake will break 
if allowed to cool before rolling. To keep the roll perfectly 
round hang it up in a cloth. (Ed.) S. 

CHILDREN'S SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal 
Baking Powder, one cup sugar, two eggs broken into a cup and 
the cup filled with milk or cream. Stir all together in a mixing 
bowl, beat hard for five minutes and bake about ten minutes in 
muffin pans or a large pan with a chimney. 

GRAHAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Use receipts either No. 1 or 2, substituting sifted graham 
meal for flour and making the measure round instead of level. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Eleven whites of eggs, six yolks of eggs, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one and one-half cups sifted granulated sugar, 
one cup patent flour, one teaspoonful extract orange. Beat 
whites till stiff and flaky, then whisk in one-half the sugar, beat 
yolks very light and add flavor and one-half the sugar, put yolks 
and whites together and fold in flour and cream of tartar, mixing 
as quick as possible. Bake fifty to sixty minutes in a slow oven, 
using Angel Cake pan. 

ANGEL CAKE, NO. 1. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, measured after sift- 
ing, one cup of pastry flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, sift 
together eight times, then- sift flour and sugar together three 
times. Beat the whites of eleven eggs with a wire beater, until 
they are dry and flaky. Pour over one teaspoonful vanilla, fold 
in the mixture of flour and sugar. Get it into a moderate oven 
as quickly as possible and bake about one hour. The pan should 
have a chimney and little legs on top so that when turned over a 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 29 

current of air can pass under it. Do not grease the pan. Never 
try to take it out but stand upside down till it drops of itself. 

Mrs. Lincoln. 

ANGEL FOOD, NO. 2. 

Sift one pound of flour, one-half pound of powdered sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder together through a 
fine sieve, beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, add one- 
half cup of cream and mix very light. Bake in good hot oven, 
be careful to not open the oven until done. S. 

MACAROONS. 

One-half pound of sugar, whites of three eggs, beat the eggs 
light, then add the sugar and beat them very stiff. Blanch one- 
half pound of almonds and pound them; two teaspoonfuls of 
rose water, one tablesrx>onful of flour; mix well, drop on greased 
paper, if they run too much add more flour. S. 

BUTTER SPONGE CAKES. 

MOUNTAIN SPONGE CAKE. 
Beat four eggs, one cup of butter, one cup of sugar, to a light 
cream, then sift one quart of flour, three heaping teaspoonfuls 
of Star Crystal Baking Powder into the mixture, and milk 
enough to make the dough drop off the spoon; put in a well- 
buttered and papered pan and bake in a good hot oven. S. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

One quart of flour, one cup of butter, one pint of cream, 
three eggs, one cup of powdered sugar, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of Star Crystal Baking Powder, rub butter into the sugar, then 
beat the yolks of the eggs and cream well together, stir into the 
flour, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix light; 
flavor and bake about thirty minutes. S. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half quarts of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
Star Crystal Baking Powder, the yolks of three eggs, one cup of 
sugar. Beat well with one-half cup of butter, the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mix together with one and one-half 
cups of milk and bake in a hot oven. S. 



30 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK." 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 1. 

Two cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, the whites of five 
eggs, one cup of white sugar, one-half cup of cold water, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, the juice and 
rind of one orange, bake like jelly cake and frost each layer. 

S. 

ORANGE CAKE, NO. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful melted butter, 
one-half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, one tablespoonful of 
orange juice, one teaspoon ful grated rind, mix in order given; 
bake in square pan, split and fill with orange cream. 

Orange Cream. — Put into a cup the rind of one-half and the 
juice of one orange, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, and fill 
with hot water. Strain and put on to boil, add one tablespoonful 
corn starch wet with cold water and cook ten minutes, being 
careful not to scorch. Beat yolk of one egg with two heaping 
tablespoonfuls sugar, add to the mixture with one teaspoonful 
butter, let cook until the butter is (dissolved, and cool. Fill the 
cake with cream and frost with orange icing. 

Boston Cook Book. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Is made by the above receipt, using grated lemon peel instead 
of orange. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

Same receipt using pineapple juice and pulp instead of 
orange, and frosting the top and sides with five-minute frosting 
given below. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Make a sponge cake by No. 2, bake in three deep jelly tins 
and cool thoroughly ; beat one pint thick sweet cream with sugar 
enough to sweeten to taste, flavor with vanilla; blanch and chop 
fine one pound almonds, stir into the cream and spread thick 
between the layers and on top. 

ASHLAND CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, one 
cup flour, one cup sugar, one-half cup corn starch, whites of four 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 31 

eggs, one teaspoonful Star Crystal Baking Powder, ten drops 
extract lemon. Bake in two deep jelly tins. 

Filling for Above. — Two cups granulated sugar, one-quarter 
cup of boiling water. Boil till it will spin then pour slowly boil- 
ing hot on to the well-beaten whites of two eggs beating all the 
time. Beat till thick enough not to run, then add one-half tea- 
spoonful citric acid (powdered) one teaspoonful each of lemon 
and vanilla, spread between the layers and over the cake. 

FIG LAYER CAKE. 

One pound of flour, three eggs, three teaspoonfuls {Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, three ounces of butter, one cup of 
sugar, mix well and bake in a hot oven; then chop one pound of 
figs, one-half pound of raisins very fine, beat the whites of two 
eggs and one-half cup of powdered sugar to a stifF froth, spread 
the figs on top of each layer and cover with frosting, put in the 
oven again for five minutes. S. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, one cup of milk, three of sugar, five eggs 
beaten separately, save the whites of three eggs for icing; one 
cup of butter, three teaspoonfuls of Star Crystal Baking Powder, 
the half of a grated cocoanut and put into the mixture, the other 
half put 'with the whites of three eggs and one-half cup of 
powdered sugar, with a little orange water or lemon juice for 
icing. Bake the cakes in jelly tins, when done spread the icing 
between and on top and put in the oven for a few minutes. S. 

FIG CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one of cold water with 
al'teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, three cups of raisins 
chopped fine, cinnamon and nutmegs, four eggs, one pound of 
figs, use the figs split in halves, covering them well with the cake 
to prevent burning. Bake in layers, frosting between each layer ; 
make as stiff as pound cake, cut with a very sharp knife to 
prevent crumbling. This receipt will make two cakes. S. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

Two cups of powdered sugar, one cup of butter, one quart of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, one cup of 



32 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

milk, two eggs; mix well, rub butter and sugar iuto the eggs, 
mix well together. Bake iu jell}' tius, pour whipped cream 
between the layers and serve and cut like pie. S. 

WASHINGTON PIE, NO. 2. 

Make sponge cake No. 2, baking it in jelly cake tins, spread 
with whipped cream or jam and pile whipped cream on top. 

ALMOND CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Three cups of flour, one of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
four eggs, rub butter and sugar to a cream, then add eggs, flour, 
three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, mix thoroughly 
and add milk last into the mixture; pour in a square, well-but- 
tered pan and bake thirty minutes. "When cold spread chocolate 
frosting on top and ornament with almonds. S. 

QUEEN CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One pound of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls Star Crystal 
Baking Powder; beat three eggs, one cup of milk with one-half 
cup of melted butter, add the flour, flavor with lemon, mix 
thoroughly and bake in hot oven. When cold make a chocolate 
frosting and ornament with walnuts. S. 

SNOW FLAKE CAKE. 

Two cups flour, three eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, three-quarter cup of milk, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, the whites of two eggs and 
one-half cup of sugar beaten to a froth; mix well, pour in tins, 
bake like layer cakes and frost each layer and sprinkle with 
cocoa nut. S. 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, 
the size of an egg melted butter, one egg, three teaspoonfuls 
Star Crystal Baking Powder, mix well and bake in a hot oven. 

S. 

CHRISTMAS EVE CAKE. 

One pound of flour, six eggs, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal 
Baking Powder, one cup of best butter, two cups of powdered 
sugar, beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, stir w r ell 
with a cup of cream beaten with the yolks of the eggs and flavor 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 33 

with arrack or rum, mix light and bake slowly in not too hot an 
oven. When cold make plain icing and pour over. S. 

STAR CRYSTAL CAKE. 

One and one-half pounds powdered sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, yolks of four eggs, one pound of flour, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, sift well, rub eggs and 
sugar into the butter, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
flavor and mix light, then bake in hot oven on layer tins, when 
cold spread icing and grated cocoanut between the layers and 
on top. S. 

DROP CAKES. 

One quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking 
Powder, sift well, one cup butter, three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
rub butter and sugar into the eggs and add milk enough to make 
a light dough, then drop with a spoon into little forms and bake 
in hot oven. S. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One cup of milk, one cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, two 
and one-half cups of flour, four eggs, add two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of Star Crystal Baking Powder to the flour and sift twice then 
set aside. Beat butter and sugar to a light cream, pound one 
cup of almonds add milk, then the eggs beaten seperately into 
which stir the flour lightly and bake in hot oven. S. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, one dozen 
eggs, one-half pound of butter, beat eggs and sugar together 
over a very slow fire until it thickens, cool off but keep on 
stirring, then add flour and melted butter into the mixture and 
put in the flour last, paper your pan and bake about forty 
minutes. S. 

CLEVELAND CAKE. 

Sift one-half pound of corn starch, one-half pound of wheat 
flour, one pound powdered sugar, three heaping teaspoonfuls 
Star Crystal Baking Powder into six eggs, a pint of sweet milk, 



34 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

mix thoroughly and pour one-half cup of melted butter into the 
mixture, put in a square baking pan and bake slow. S. 

FRENCH LOAF. 

Three cups of flour, three eggs, three teaspoonfuls Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, two cups of powdered sugar, one cup of 
butter, mix well, beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff 
froth, rub butter and sugar to a light cream, add one cup of milk, 
beat the yolks of the eggs well and flavor to taste, mix again, 
then pour the mixture into a well-papered and buttered pan, 
sprinkle a little powdered sugar over the cake before baking. It 
is well to cover it when first putting in the oven in order not to 
harden the top too soon. S. 

EASTER SUNDAY CAKE. 

Two pounds of flour, one of sugar, one cup of raisins, three 
heaping teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, three eggs 
beaten separately, the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, beat 
the yolks of the eggs into a pint of milk, mix well together and 
be careful in mixing the froth into the mixture last, paper and 
butter your pans well, and bake in loaf. This will give three 
cakes. S. 

BEAUMONT CAKE. 

One pound of powdered sugar, one-half pound butter, yolks 
of six eggs, one quart flour, three heaping teaspoonfuls Star 
Crystal Baking Powder, one cup of raisins, a wine glass of arrack, 
then beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, mix all together 
well and bake in loaf; when cold spread plain icing on top. S. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. — Whites of four eggs, one cup of white sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla or lemon, and two and a half cups of sifted flour. 

Black Part. — The yolks of four eggs, one cup of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of mace, one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful soda, 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 85 

and one and one-half cups of sifted flour; put it in the cake 
dish alternately, first one part and then the other. The pan 
should be lined with buttered paper. S. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, two cups 
flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful Star Crystal Baking Powder, 
one-half cup milk. Use the whites for one cake, the yolks for 
the other. Flavor the white with extract almond, the yellow 
with lemon. Frost with white and yellow frosting. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Five cups flour, three cups sugar, two cups butter, one cup 
of milk, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, one wine 
glass of wine, five eggs, one nutmeg; add one pound of raisins 
(if you want the cake rich.) Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream, beat the whites of above five eggs to a stiff froth, beat 
wine and spice into flour well; mix together light and bake one 
hour. S. 

CREAM FRUIT CAKE. 

One quart flour, one cup of butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, four eggs, 
chop one-half pound of raisins, one-half pound almonds, one- 
quarter pound citron, very fine. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, mix well, add cream enough to make the dough 
light, butter and paper your pan and bake in good hot oven. 

S. 

BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, nine eggs, one 
pound flour, three pounds currants, two pounds stoned raisins, 
one-half tea cup wine or brandy, from one-half to three-quarters 
pounds citron, one grated nutmeg, a little mace and cinnamon. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, when light add first the 
yolks and then the whites of the eggs, the yolks and whites of 
eggs to be l>eaten separately, then put in nearly all your flour, 
keeping out just enough to dust your raisins, and separate them; 
cut your citron in such slices as you like and put in as you put 
the cake in the pan; after mixing your fruit in the cake, grease 



3(3 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

a four-quart pan carefully, line with brown paper, "lightly 
buttered. Put the cake in and bake in not too hot an oven. 
When baked take it out of the pan, paper and all, and let cool. 
The next day, to keep it moist, put it back in the pan and 
keep it tightly covered. &• 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, twelve eggs, 
one-half gill of brandy, one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of 
cloves, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one and one-half pounds of 
raisins, one and one-half pounds of currants, one pound of citron. 
Seed the raisins and chop them quite fine; wash the citron in 
hot water, wipe it dry and slice it in small pieces; beat butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the flour with the brandy and the 
spices, and last the fruit. Mix the whole well together, paper 
your pan and bake in not too hot an oven about four hours. 

S. 

SCOTCH PLUM CAKE. 

One-quarter peck of flour, one pound of sugar, three pounds 
currants, one pound of chopped raisins, one-quarter ounce of 
mace and cloves, a grated nutmeg, peel of lemon cut fine, one- 
half pound of blanched almonds beaten with rose water, mix 
well, then melt two pounds of butter in a pint of cream, put in a 
glass of sherry, one of brandy, twelve eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten apart, and one-half pint of good yeast; strain this into the 
dry ingredients, beat a full hour, butter your hoop, throw in 
plenty chips of citron, lemon and orange candy, as you put in 
your batter, and bake in a good hot oven. S. 

OLD-FASHIONED CUP CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one and one-half 
cups sugar, three cups flour, three eggs beaten separately, two 
teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking powder, one saltspoonful mace, 
one-half teaspoonful extract lemon. Cream the butter and add 
sugar gradually, then the yolks of eggs, then the flavoring; sift 
the baking powder with the flour and add alternately with the 
milk, lastly beat in the whites. This is the foundation for 
almost all the butter cakes given previously. Use one-half the 
butter and scant the flour and it makes all the layer cake 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 37 

mixtures. Color one-third the dough with spices and add one- 
half cup currants and chopped raisins, bake in jelly cake tins, 
placing the dark layer between the two white ones, fasten 
together with frosting and cover top and sides thickly with 
boiled frosting. Omit the milk and use six eggs and it is a rich 
loaf cake, etc. Mrs. Campbell. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound butter, ten eggs, one pound 
flour, one saltspoonful each salt, mace and nutmeg. Bake in 
two narrow loaves about one hour. 



WEDDING CAKE. 

To the above mixture add two eggs, making twelve in all, 
two teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon and mace, one teaspoonful 
each of nutmeg and allspice, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one 
ounce chocolate dissolved over warm water, three pounds 
raisins (weighed after seeding), three pounds Sultana raisins, 
three pounds currants, one and one-half pounds citron, two 
ounces each of candied lemon and orange peel, one pound 
shredded almonds which have been blanched and dried, two 
ounces brandy, two ounces port wine, two tablespoonfuls strained 
honey. Let the flour used for drying the fruit be in addi- 
tion to the one pound of the batter. Mix well and rest a few 
hours, over night, if convenient; mix again before putting into 
pans. 

ENGLISH WAFERS. 

One and one-half pounds flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
of butter, one cup of milk, rub the butter, sugar and flour 
together, then add the milk, mix well, turn it out and work it 
until it becomes perfectly smooth. Roll into sheets, cut with 
small cutter, then place on tins and bake in not too hot an oven. 
It will take a few minutes to knead all the ingredients into a 
dough, but as the quantity of milk is quite sufficient it would 
spoil them to add more. S. 



38 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

NEW YEAR CAKES. 

One pound of butter, one and one-half pounds of sugar r 
three pounds of flour, two tablespoonfuls of caraway seed, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cupful of milk, cut long 
and print, or cut as cookies. S. 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 1. 

\Vork one-half pound of butter into one and one-half pounds 
of good flour, mix it with one-half pound of molasses, one- 
quarter pound of brown sug3 v , a teaspoonful of ginger and the 
same of caraway seeds; mix well together and form it into cakes 
not larger than a crown piece, place in a baking pan and bake 
in a moderate oven. S. 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. 2. 

One cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup butter, one tablespoonful ginger, flour to roll very 
thin. Mix molasses, sugar, ginger and butter, stir over the fire 
until the butter is melted, then stir in quickly four cups of flour 
in which has been sifted the pulverized soda. Knead the dough 
with more flour until stiff enough to roll out easily. Roll as thin 
as pasteboard and bake in a quick oven. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup molasses, two tablespoonfuls warm milk or water, 
one tablespoonful ginger, one-half cup of soft butter, one tea- 
spoonful soda, flour to mix soft as can be handled on the board. 
Mix in order given, dissolving soda in the milk. 8hape on a 
floured board into balls the size of a hickory nut. Lay on a 
sheet and flatten to one-half inch thick. — School Kitchen Text- 
Book. 

WATER GINGERBREAD. 

Two cups molasses, one cup warm water, one-half cup each 
of butter and lard, (heaping), one teaspoonful soda, one 
tablespoonful ginger, flour to knead soft. Mix in order given, 
roll out about one inch thick on baking sheets and bake about 
one-naif hour in moderate oven. It should be crisp when new. 



HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 3S 

SPICE GINGERBREAD. 

One quart flour, an egg of butter rubbed in, one teaspoonful 
Star Crystal Baking Powder, one teaspoonful fine soda, mixed in 
dry, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, mace and salt, 
two cups molasses, one cup boiling water. Beat hard; bake in a 
loaf very slowly. 

BEDFORD JUMBLES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, beaten well together; add 
one-half cup flour and four well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful 
vanilla and flour enough to roll out. One-half cup grated cocoa- 
nut is a delicious addition, or cover them with finely shred 
almonds. 

PLAIN COOKIES. 

Use above rule, adding two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking 
Powder to the flour, and one-half cup of milk to the dough, and 
two teaspoonfuls caraway seeds. Bake quickly. 

HERMITS. 

Add one-half cup stoned and chopped raisins to the receipt 
for Bedford Jumbles and bake one-quarter inch thick. 

PFEFFER NUSS. 

Four pounds flour, twenty-five ounces almonds, four ounces 
bitter almonds, one teaspoonful cinnamon, rind and juice of one 
lemon, two and one-half pounds strained honey, boiled with two 
pounds sugar and poured boiling hot on the flour, one ounce 
(cooking) potash dissolved in wine glass of water. Knead till 
perfectly smooth, shape in nuts and bake in moderate oven until 
dry through. 

SNOWFLAKES. 

Five eggs, one-half pound of flour, one-quarter pound of 
butter, one cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls Star Crystal 
Baking Powder; cream" the butter and work the eggs into it. 
Sift flour, sugar and baking powder together, adding a little milk 
if necessary to thin, cut out with a cutter and fry in hot lard. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES, 



Frosting. 



FIVE MINUTE FROSTING. 

The white of one egg, one teaspoonful lemon juice, one scant 
cup of powdered sugar stirred together until the sugar is all wet, 
then beat with a fork for just five minutes; spread quickly on 
the cake while warm. — Boston Cook Book. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

Boil one cup granulated sugar, a speck of cream tartar, and 
one-third cup of water until it spins a thread when dropped 
from the spoon, then pour in a fine stream onto the white of an 
egg beaten stiff, beating as you pour, continue beating until stiff 
enough to stand alone, add flavoring and spread on the cake 
with a knife dipped in warm water. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING. 

One cup sifted powdered sugar, one teaspoonful lemon 
juice, the white of one egg; beat the egg until it is all frothy but 
not dry, then sprinkle over three teaspoonfuls sugar and beat 
five minutes; add one teaspoonful each five minutes till quite 
thick, then put in the lemon juice. Beat with a fork and when 
a point of it will stand in any position it is ready to press through 
a pastry tube onto the cake, which should be already covered 
with a smooth plain frosting. 

GOLDEN FROSTING. 

Beat two yolks of egg with one cup sugar and one-half tea- 
spoonful old Jamaica rum, add more sugar if not stiff enough to 
hold its place. 



44 FRONTING. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Melt one ounce chocolate, add one teaspoonful powdered 
sugar, and add to the boiled frosting till it is dark as you wish. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 

Grate the thin rind of an orange and soak it one-half hour 
in three teaspoonfuls lemon juice. Squeeze the juice through a 
fine muslin and use like the lemon in five-minute frosting. 

FROSTING FOR CAKES. 

Ten teaspoonfuls powdered sugar to the white of an egg, 
beat five minutes for each spoonful of sugar. 

PLAIN ICING. 

One cup powdered sugar, one tablespoonful lemon juice, 
about one tablespoonful boiling water; beat hard till smooth 
and semi-transparent. Spread on the cake as soon as taken 
from the oven. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Omit the lemon juice from the above recipe and add three 
heaping tablespoonfuls of pulverized chocolate. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Pastry. 



Don't make it ! But if it must be made, this is the way to 
do it: 

One pound flour (one quart), one teaspoonful salt, one-third 
pound butter, well rubbed together till like meal. If your hands 
are hot, chop it together without touching it with the hands. 
Mix stiff" as possible with ice water and pat out on the board to 
about one-third of an inch thick; lay this sheet of paste on ice 
while two-thirds pound butter is washed and worked in cold 
water until waxy. Divide it in four parts and pat each out to as 
thin a cake as you can, it is no matter if it is broken through in 
holes. Set these sheets of butter on ice also. Now dust the 
board and pin slightly with flour, place the sheet of paste on it 
and one sheet of butter on the middle of the paste; fold the 
paste over the butter in such a way as to divide the paste in 
thirds, then turn over the ends letting them meet in the middle; 
the paste is now in rectangular shape and with a little care in 
rolling can be kept so through all the subsequent foldings and 
rollings. Roll out to one-quarter inch thick and fold as before, 
but without butter. The third time of folding enclose the second 
piece of butter, and continue adding it at every alternate rolling 
until it has all been used; as there were four sheets of butter 
that will make eight times folding and rolling the paste. Finally 
give one, two or three extra turns, as your patience holds out; 
lay on ice until needed for use; it is better to lie for several 
hours before being baked. If the paste sticks to the board or 
pin lay on ice until chilled through, scrape the board clean, 
polish with a dry cloth and dust with fresh flour before trying 
again. A stone slab is a comfort but not at all necessary. Use 
as little flour in rolling as possible, but use enough to keep the 
paste drv. Roll with a light, even, long stroke in everv direc- 

47 



48 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

tion, but never work the rolling-pin back and forth, as that 
kneads the paste and toughens it, besides breaking the bubbles 
of air. The number of layers of butter and paste makes it flaky, 
but every bubble of air that is folded in helps it to rise and puff 
in baking. 

TO BAKE PUFF PASTE. 

The dough should be ice cold when put into the oven. If it 
softens while being cut into the desired shape, place it on the 
ice again until hard. The oven should be as hot as for baking 
white bread; set it on the floor of the oven at first until risen to 
its full height, then slip a grate under to keep from burning 
while baking through and browning; if the oven is too hot the 
paste will set and scorch before it is risen; if too cool it will melt 
and spread or slip out of shape. The exact temperature can 
only be acquired by practice. 

Patty shells should rise in ten minutes and then take about 
twenty minutes longer to bake through and brown. There will 
usually be a little soft dough in the center that should be picked 
out with a fork, taking great care not to break through the side 
or bottom crust. To shape the paste for patties, etc., roll to 
about one-third inch in thickness and stamp out with a two and 
one-quarter inch cutter twice as many pieces as you wish shells. 
Cut centers from one-half of them, leaving the rim about one- 
half inch wide. Lay these rings on the whole rounds, pressing 
them down that they may stick together. In very cold weather 
it may be needful to wet the top of the large rounds near the 
edge to make sure that the rings shall not slip. To make very 
deep shells roll the paste about one-eighth inch thick and lay on 
two rings, or even three, but they are troublesome to bake as 
they are apt to slip to one side. 

TARTS. 

Are rolled as thin as convenient and cut with a fluted cutter. 
They are served cold, filled with jelly or jam. 

BOUCHEES. 

Are made small, about one and one-half inches in diameter 
and very deep; they are served hot, filled with very highly 
seasoned meat or shell fish, dressed with mayonnaise or sauce 
tartare. The filling may be either hot or cold. 



PASTRY. 49 

RISSOLES. 

Can be made of the trimmings of puff paste rolled very thin, 
cut in three inch rounds. Put a teaspoonful of filling in the cen- 
ter, cover with another round, wet the edges with white of egg 
to ensure their being fastened, and fry a few seconds in very hot 
fat till a handsome color. 

FOR PIES. 

Roll the paste out about one-third of an inch thick, then 
roll up and cut from the end of the roll. Turn each piece on 
the side so that the folds show the rings, pat out flat, then rol 
a trifle larger than the plate. This should be used for the upper 
crust only, and for a rim if desired; if used for under crust it is 
always sodden and indigestible. 

PLAIN PASTRY. 

One cup of flour, heaping, one saltspoonful Star Crystal 
Baking Powder, one saltspoonful salt, one-quarter cup lard, 
one-quarter cup butter; mix baking powder and salt with the 
flour; rub in the lard and butter till fine and dry like meal. 
Mix to a stiff paste with ice water; this makes a tender, crispy 
crust, but not in the least flaky. IT baked quickly and thoroughly 
it is as little hurtful to the digestion as any pastry can be. To 
make it somewhat flaky rub in only the lard, pat and roll out to 
one-third inch thick, dot on one-half the butter in thin pieces, 
dust with flour and fold in thirds; pat and roll out again, dot 
with remainder of butter and roll up like a jelly roll; cut from 
the end as directed for puff paste and it will give a fairly hand- 
some crust if properly done. All pastry needs a quick oven at 
first to keep it from melting. Never grease the pie plate. All pies 
made with an upper crust should have holes cut to let the steam 
escape or the crust will be likely to be sodden on the under 
side. Tin or granite ware plates are much the best, as they can- 
not soak grease and bake the under crust more quickly and 
perfectly. The English fashion of baking all fruit pies in deep 
dishes, with no under crust, is admirable, being far more 
delicious as well as more wholesome. Their meat and game 
pies, made in the same way, win favor wherever they are 
introduced. 



50 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line a plate with plain paste, fill with apples that have been 
pared, cored and cut in eighths until it is piled as high above the 
edge as the bottom of the plate is below. Cover with either 
plain or puff paste and bake till apples are soft, about thirty 
minutes. (Try them with a fork.) When done boil three- 
quarters cup sugar in one-quarter cup of water five minutes. 
Pour this syrup boiling hot through the holes in the crust. Tilt 
the pie a little until the syrup shows through on every side. 
If you choose to put in the sugar before baking, sprinkle three- 
quarters cup over the apples when the pie is little more than 
one-half full, cover with remainder of apples and put on crust as 
usual. Take a strip of cotton one inch wide and long enough to 
go around the plate, wring it out of cold water and bind the edge 
of the pie with it. If pulled from the pie as soon as taken from 
the oven, it will leave no mark. 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Wash the stalks and cut into inch bits without peeling, pour 
boiling water over it and let it stand ten minutes, dredge lightly 
with flour; for a ten-inch plate allow a heaping cup of sugar, dot 
with one tablespoonful butter cut in bits the size of a pea, cover 
and bake in a very quick oven for the first ten minutes, then 
more slowly until done, about thirty minutes in all. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One cup of stewed and sifted pumpkin (or squash), one level 
teaspoonful salt, one saltspoonful mace, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, two-thirds cup of sugar, one beaten egg well mixed 
together, pour over a cup each of cream and milk boiling hot, fill 
the plate and set into oven as quickly as possible; if pumpkin 
is watery add one teaspoonful flour. It is done when it rises 
well in the middle. A rim of puff paste can be laid around the 
edge of the plate if liked, if used it should be at least one inch 
wide and the edge that goes down hito the squash rolled very 
thin. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line plate as for squash. Heat one pint of milk, rub one 
teaspoonful flour smooth with one-half cup cold milk, add to the 



PASTRY. 51 

boiling milk and cook five minutes. Pour on to three beaten 
eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one saltspoonful salt and flavor to 
taste, one-half teaspoonful lemon or one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Strain hot into a deep plate, bake slowly, never letting it boil. 
It is done when a knife blade makes a clean cut. 

LEMON PIE, NO. 1. 

One cup of milk, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful corn- 
starch cooked over hot water for at least fifteen minutes, one 
saltspoonful salt, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one 
egg, grated rind and juice of one lemon. Fill the paste while 
hot and bake quick. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, add slowly 
two tablespoonfuls of sifted powdered sugar, spread over the 
pie as soon as it comes out of the oven and return it to dry and 
brown slightly. 

N. B. If oven is very hot leave the door ajar. 

LEMON PIE, NO. 2. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls cracker dust, two eggs, one 
saltspoonful salt. Good baked in old fashioned way between 
two crusts. 

LEMON PIE, NO. 3. 

Mix three tablespoonfuls cornstarch, one saltspoonful salt, 
one and one-half cups sugar, stir into one pint boiling water and 
cook ten minutes. Then add grated rind and juice of two large 
lemons, the beaten yolks of four eggs, then the whites beaten 
stiff folded in lightly. Bake in two pies about twenty minutes in 
a rather quick oven. Meringue as in No. 1. 

CHERRY TART. 

Pick over one and one-half pounds of cherries ; turn a tiny cup 
upside down in the middle of a deep pie dish, fill around it with 
the fruit, add moist sugar to taste. Lay a wide strip of plain 
paste around the edge of the dish, cover and press the edges 
firmly together with a pastry jaggcr, bake in hot oven and serve 
with powdered sugar sprinkled thickly on top. All juicy fruits 
are most excellent cooked in the same way. S. 



02 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 



BOSTON CREAM PIE. 



One pint of sweet milk, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls sifted 
flour, five tablespoonfuls of sugar, put two-thirds of the milk on 
to boil and stir the sugar and flour in what is left. "When the 
rest boils put in the whole and stir until it cooks thoroughly. 
When cool flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake with two crusts. 

S. 

POTATO PIE. 

Boil six sweet potatoes, mash and sift them through a coarse 
sieve, add three pints of milk to a pint of pulp, a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, two eggs, a teacup of sugar, one-half a tea- 
spoonful salt, nutmeg or lemon to flavor, and bake with an under 
crust of rich paste. S. 

APPLE TART. 

Stew one dozen apples till quite soft, take out any hard 
]>ieces, beat them to a pulp, allow six ounces of sugar, five eggs, 
the grated rind of a lemon, five ounces of melted butter, line a 
dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture and bake at once. 

s. 

MINCE PIES, PLAIN. 

Two coffee cups chopped beef and small piece, about 4 ounces, 
of fat salt pork, four coffee cups sugar, one nutmeg, one coffee cup 
molasses, two lemons, rind and juice, or sour orange, four 
tcaspoonfuls salt, two cups cider, boiled with the molasses, four 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon, four cups of chopped fruit (raisins, 
citron, currants), one teaspoonful cloves, one cup suet, finely 
chopped. Mix and scald, pack down in jars and pour a little 
brandy on top. When used, add six cups apple and stoned 
raisins ad lib. 

MINCE PIES, RICHER. 

One pound fresh beef, one pound tongue, one-half pound salt 
pork (scalded) chopped very fine, one pound large raisins, seeded, 
one pound Sultana raisins, one pound currants, three-quarter 
pound "A" sugar, three-quarter granulated sugar caramel, one 
pint of rich stock, one pint of boiled cider, fruit juice or soft 
jelly, simmer till well blended. Add one tablespoonful salt, two 



PASTRY. &6 

teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one teaspoonful mace, one teaspoonful nutmeg, one-half 
pound citron, shredded. Cool and taste; add more seasoning if 
liked. Pack in glass jars, pouring two tablespoonfuls of brandy 
on the top of each. AVhen ready to use, add two and one-half 
cups of chopped raw apples to each cup of the mince ; partly 
cook and put into the pies hot, adding lemon (grated rind and 
juice) and rose water, if liked. 

EGG MINCE MEAT. 

Chop six hard boiled eggs very fine, double the quantity of 
beef suet, one pound of currants, mince the peel of two lemons, 
six tablespoonfuls of sweet wine, a little mace, nutmeg and salt 
to taste, add one-quarter of a pound candied orange and citron, 
cut into thin slices, mix well together and press it into a jar until 
needed. Add apple as for pies made with meat. S. 

BRAMBLES. 

One lemon grated whole, one cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped fine, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful 
cracker dust, bake in " turnovers" or patty pans or better still, 
roll trimmings of puff paste as thin as possible, put a layer on a 
baking sheet, spread with above mixture and cover with another 
flat of paste. Mark off with a pastry jagger in strips four inch 
long by two inch wide and bake in a quick oven. These are nice 
with a thin icing and are delicious with cocoa for lunch. Another, 
richer filling is made by chopping very fine one-quarter pound 
figs, two ounces citron, one-quarter cup pistachio nuts (or 
almonds), two ounces seeded raisins, add one egg well beaten 
and use like the above. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Equal measures of flour and grated cheese, the richer the 
cheese the better. To each cupful allow one saucespoonful salt 
and a speck of cayenne. Mix to a stiff paste with ice water, roll 
to one-eighth inch and mark off in straws before baking. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Puddings 
and Other Desserts. 



ENGLISH OR CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half pounds bread crumbs, two ounces citron, 
onje-half pound flour, two ounces almonds, blanched and 
shredded, two pounds suet, chopped fine, two small nutmegs, 
grated, two pounds currants, one lemon, juice and grated 
rind, two pounds sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two ounces candied 
lemon peel, sixteen eggs, one wine glass of brandy, and enough 
milk to make a stiff paste. Mix in order given and boil for eight 
hours in a buttered mold or floured pudding cloth. The water 
must not stop boiling. When it is to be used, plunge into boil- 
ing water and -cook for two hours more. Stick a sprig of holly 
in the top, pour two tablespoonfuls brandy over and bring to the 
table blazing. Serve with English sauce. 

ANOTHER. 

One-half pound chopped suet, one scant cup of brown sugar, 
one-quarter pound currants, one-half cup of brandy, one-half 
pound raisins, one-half cup of milk, one-half pound flour, one 
tablespoonful mixed spice, one ounce each of candied lemon 
and orange, one ounce citron, one saltspoonful salt, three eggs, 
rind of one lemon grated. Mix well, let rest two hours or more, 
pour into a buttered and floured cloth (or mold), boil forty-eight 
hours. Miss Hammond. 

ENGLISH SAUCE. 

Three yolks eggs, two lumps sugar well rubbed on lemon 

rind, one-half cup sugar, one-half saucespoonful salt, one-quarter 

cup sherry. Add one cup of milk, set in hot water and heat till 

light and frothy. 

57 



58 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

ANY DAY PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup of chopped suet, one cup of raisins, one cup of cur- 
rants, one-half cup of citron, one egg, one cup of sweet milk, 
three and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful Star Costal Baking Powder; put into a bag and boil 
three hours. S. 

SPICE PUDDING. 

One cup of milk, one cup flour, heaping, one cup molasses, 
one cup cornmeal, one-half teaspoonful allspice, one-half cup 
chopped suet or broken butter, one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful cin- 
namon, one cup raisins or chopped figs or dates or sweet apples. 
Steam three hours in a mold with a chimney. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

One cup rice, well picked and washed, one-half cup sugar, 
two quarts milk, one teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful cin- 
namon; bake very slowly for three to four hours, keeping cov- 
ered as much as possible until the last fifteen minutes, then lift 
the cover to brown the top. It should be creamy and not dry 
when done. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Two ounces tapioca, boiled in one-half pint of water until 
it begins to melt, than add one-half pint of milk and boil until 
the tapioca becomes very thick, add a very well beaten egg, 
sugar and flavor to taste and bake one hour. S. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Four oranges peeled and picked to pieces and put into a 
pudding dish with two cups of sugar, put a quart of milk, yolks 
of three eggs, and two teaspoonfuls of corn starch on to boil. 
Take off, cool it and pour over the oranges, beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, put over the pudding and bake to 
light brown. S. 

RICE WITH PEARS. 

Boil one and one-half cups of rice into a pint of milk, when 
tender put in a pinch of cinnamon and nutmeg and let it get 



PUDDINGS AND OTHER DESSERTS. 59 

real cool; beat three eggs, and mix then with the rice, butter a 
mold, put the rice into a bap; and let boil for one-half hour, turn 
it out, lay arovr. 1 1« uaked pears, garnish with slices of lemon. 

S. 

STEAMED APPLES. 

Fill a pie plate with tart juicy apples, quartered and cored, 
cover with baking powder crust, (one cup flour, one-half cup of 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of Star Crystal Baking Powder well 
mixed,) steam or cook on top of stove until the apples are 
tender, then set in oven to brown the crust, serve with any 
sauce preferred. S. 

COMPOTE OF FRUIT. 

One pound flour, one cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, three teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, one cup 
of milk, mix well and pour into a dripping pan and bake ten 
minutes. When done spread any kind of fruit on top. Pour a 
light custard over and bake again for ten minutes. S. 

POOR MAN'S FRITTERS. 

Cut a stale cake into slices of one and one-half inches in 
thickness, pour over them a little good cream and fry lightly in 
fresh butter. When done place fruit on each slice. S. 

CAKE FRITTERS. 

Take stale cake, cut into square pieces, soak them in a little 
sweet cider, then make a batter of one cup of flour, one of milk, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of Star Crystal Baking Powder, dip 
the pieces into the batter and fry in hot lard. S. 

GERMAN PUFF. 

One pint milk, one pound flour, three tablespoonfuls butter, 
four eggs, beat the yolks until thick, warm the milk to which 
add the butter, when cool stir in the yolks, put the flour in a 
pan and stir in the above, whisk the whites and stir through 
very lightly, butter a long square pan which fill half with the 
mixture and bake in hot oven. Serve hot with any sauce 
preferred. S. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Pudding Sauces. 



APRICOT SAUCE. 

Put four ounces of Apricot marmalade into a sauce pan with 
one ounce of fresh butter and one-half cupful of water ; set over 
fire and stir with a wooden spoon until it begins to boil, then 
take from the fire, add one-half cup full of Kirsch (or brandy), 
let boil up once and serve with apricot or apple dumplings. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

One pint of milk, one tablespoonful of corn starch, a speck 
of salt, one-half cup of sugar cooked together for twenty min- 
utes, stirring very often. Scrape two ounces of chocolate and 
melt over hot water, then stir into the boiling milk. 

Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, and add gradually one-half 
cupful of powdered sugar, then the unbeaten yolks and stir 
all into the boiling mixture. Cook one minute longer, add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract and serve either hot or cold. It 
is especially nice with corn starch, rice or bread puddings. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

One heaping teaspoonful butter, softened, two cups pow- 
dered sugar, one well-beaten egg rubbed to a cream together, 
add one-half cup thick cream and one teaspoonful vanilla. If 
it should seperate set it over hot water and stir until smooth 
again, keep on ice till wanted. 

ENGLISH ORANGE SAUCE. 

Put in a sauce pan four egg yolks with four ounces of 
powdered sugar, and stir with a wooden spoon until it becomes 
of a whitish color. Add one cupful of sweet cream, little by 

61 



62 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

little, beating continually, then grate in the rind of an orange. 
Place the pan on a slow fire and stir well for four minutes, 
being careful not to let it boil ; take it off; strain through a sieve 
over the pudding and serve very hot. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Brown sugar in a clean frying pan until a light coffee color, 
add an equal measure of water and simmer until the sugar 
dissolves. Good either hot or cold. 

FIG PUDDING SAUCE. 

Four large figs cut into bits and simmered in water enough 
to cover until very soft, rub through a fine sieve, add enough 
water to make one pint in all, add one cup sugar, three level 
teaspoonfuls cornstarch and boil ten minutes, then one tea- 
spoonful cornstarch and boil ten minutes, then one teaspoonful 
butter, the juice of one-half lemon (one tablespoonful) and 
serve as soon as the butter is melted. 

GERMAN SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup water boiled fifteen minutes, 
beat the yolks of three eggs, and add the syrup. Set over hot 
water and beat with a whisk until it begins to thicken, then add 
one tablespoonful butter, three tablespoonfuls brandy and the 
whites of three eggs beaten dry. Stir a few minutes to cook 
the eggs and serve with any plum pudding. 

# 
ENGLISH SAUCE. {Seepage 57.) 

ICED MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Boil together one cupful of sugar and one cupful of water 
for fifteen minutes, than pour half of it into a small pail with 
the juice of one large orange, two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice and one-half cupful of Sicily Madeira. Set this into a 
freezing mixture and stir occasionally. Let the remaining half 
of the syrup boil five minutes more, then beat it slowly into the 
beaten whites of two eggs. Beating till they begin to stiffen ; 
set away to cool until the frozen mixture is as stiff as can be 
stirred easily. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 63 

Beat in the meringno and it is ready to use, but will not 
hurt to stand for some time. A most delicious sauce for any 
frozen or ice-cold pudding. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Plain whipped cream, sweetened and flavored according to 
the dish on which it is to be served, makes an excellent sauce 
for many desserts; it is elegant and good enough for almost any 
pudding. To make a light whip a whip churn should always be 
used. A Dover beater or fork will whip the cream but it will 
always be solid rather than light and there is danger of bringing 
the cream to butter. 

SYRUP SAUCES. 

Boil two cups sugar with two tablespoonfuls water till it 
thickens slightly, take from the fire, stir in one teaspoonful 
butter and either lemon or orange juice or any fruit syrup, wine, 
brandy, cordial or any flavoring extract as preferred. 

PLAIN SAUCE. 

Two cups water, one cup sugar, boiling; stir in one table- 
spoonful cornstarch, wet with cold water, one lump sugar well 
rubbed on lemon rind, one teaspoonful butter and any flavoring 
preferred as in receipt above. Care must be taken to cook corn- 
starch well or it will taste. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Custards, Creams, etc. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls sugar, one 
saltspoonful salt, one teaspoonful cornstarch, one teaspoonful 
vanilla. Dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the cold milk, add 
to the remainder of the quart boiling hot and cook ten minutes. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together, pour the boiling milk over 
them and return to the fire to cook until thick enough to mask 
the spoon, take at once from the fire, set into cold water and 
stir often until almost cold. Then add the flavoring and strain 
into the dish from which it is to be served. 

For Cocoanut Custard. — Add one cup grated cocoanut after 
straining. 

For Chocolate Custard. — Melt one ounce of chocolate over 
hot water, rub well with a little of the hot custard and add 
before straining. 

TIPSY PUDDING. 

Half fill a deep dish with any light dry cake, mix one-half 
cup wine and one-half cup boiling water and j)our over it. Just 
before serving cover with ice cold boiled custard, and garnish 
with candied cherries or any bright colored jelly. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Make the raw custard as above, using six eggs instead of 
four and omitting the corn starch. Strain into a mold or cups, 
set into a deep pan and fill two-thirds of the way to the top of 
the mold with boiling water. Bake in a very moderate oven. 
Test often with a knife and take out the instant the knife blade 
comes out smooth and clean. These two receipts are the foun- 
dation for numberless varieties of desserts, according to the 

fancy of the cook. 

J 65 



66 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One quart milk, one-half package gelatine, one cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, four egg yolks, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Soak gelatine until very soft in one cup cold water, then drain 
off all the water that has not been absorded, boil the milk and 
add other ingredients, cooking the eggs only two minutes; pour 
boiling hot onto the gelatine and strain into mold to cool. It 
should stand at least six hours on ice; whip whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls sugar and flavor to taste. Use 
to garnish the cream. Rs. Campbell. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Whip one pint cream to a stiff froth; it ought to make two 
quarts; if too rich to whip add a little milk. With one scant 
cup sugar add one-half box gelatine softened in cold water, the 
yolks of four eggs and one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook one min- 
ute and strain into a broad pan set in ice water. Watch it care- 
fully and as soon as it begins to thicken add the whipped cream, 
folding it in as for an omelet. Put into molds and set on ice to 
harden. This, too, is the foundation for a large variety of 
creams. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream. — Use one cup clear strong coffee 
and one cup milk to make the custard. 

Chocolate. — Add one ounce chocolate, melted, to the hot 
custard before straining. 

Peach. — Take one pint sifted pulp instead of one pint milk 
and omit the eggs. 

Strawberry, or any Other Small Fruit. — Three pints ber- 
ries mashed fine, strain the juice, add one cup sugar, gelatine 
soaked as above and dissolved in one cup boiling water. Add 
whipped cream and mold as before. 

MACAROON CREAM. 

Line a deep glass dish with macaroons, putting a bit of rasp- 
berry or other jam on each. Make one pint boiled custard 
(p. 65), strain hot over the macaroons and set away to cool. 
Just before serving add one pint cream whipped light, stirring 
i part into the custard and piling the rest on top. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 67 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

One box gelatine, three pints cold water, one pound white 
sugar, juice of three lemons, one can grated pineapple, soak 
gelatine in part of the water till very soft, add remainder of 
water boiling hot, sugar and lemon juice, let come to the boil, 
strain and add the pineapple. Stir well when, just beginning to 
stiffen, and pour into molds to set. Served with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Ledyard Smith. 

SWEET PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Thirty large French chestnuts, one-half cup of sugar, three 
pints whipped and drained cream, one gill (one-half cup) water, 
one tablespoonful wine, two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, shell 
the chestnuts, boil rapidly for ten minutes in water to cover well, 
then remove the thin brown skins and return to the fire with 
water enough to barely cover and boil till so tender that they 
will crush between the thumb and finger. Drain, pound and sift 
them, boil the one-half cup sugar in one-half cup water till it 
will spin, add sifted chestnut and cook about ten minutes until 
the. puree is firm, press through a potato-ricer in a circle on a 
flat glass dish, being careful not to press it down. Set away to 
cool till serving time, heap the whipped and flavored cream in 
the center and serve with wafers. Baked sweet potatoes may 
be substituted for the chestnuts if very dry and mealy but they 
will usually need a little more sugar. Miss Parloa. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Ice Creams, Sherbets, etc. 



(Directions for Freezing.) 

A freezer holding four quarts is the most satisfactory size for 
family use, and it is well worth while to invest in a crown ice 
chip at the same time. The hole for draining away water should 
be about three-quarter of the distance from bottom to top and 
should never be plugged lest the water rise high enough to enter 
the can. About ten quarts of fine ice and three pints coarse salt 
will be needed for a gallon freezer. Diamond C rock salt is the 
best grade to use, and if drained from the water and dried can 
be made to serve for several successive freezings. After adjust- 
ing the can in the freezer pack fine ice about five inches deep at 
the bottom. Sprinkle this with one cup of salt and add another 
layer of ice. alternate salt and ice till even with top of can, pack- 
ing it down solid with a stick every time salt is added. Pour on 
one quart cold water and begin turning the handle, slowly at 
first but after five minutes as fast as convenient, in order to 
insure a fine smooth cream. More salt will freeze it quicker, but 
the cream will be coarse grained or even lumpy. Remove the 
beater as soon as the cream is frozen and work the frozen mass 
together with a spoon. Cover closely, corking the hole in the 
cover and if it is to stand very long, repack with fresh ice and 
salt. Cover the whole freezer with a blanket or piece of carpet 
and set in a cool place, tipping it slightly to let the extra water 
run from the drainage hole. 

At serving time, lift out the can, hold for two or three min- 
utes under the cold water faucet, wipe dry and turn quickly on 
to a napkin folded on an ice cold platter. 

To keep over night or for several hours, cut a strip of cloth 
an inch wide, spread it with soft butter and wrap around the 
joints where the cover fits the mold, drawing as tight as possible 
and lapping the ends well. This will keep out salt water. 

69 



70 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

ICE CREAM. 

Whip and drain one pint cream, to the thin part that drains 
from the whip, add one scant cup sugar, one cup cream, one cup 
milk, and scald thoroughly. Cool and add one tablespoonful 
vanilla or any flavoring preferred, freeze till like soft mush, 
then put in the whip and turn the freezer as fast as possible for 
five minutes; pack and let stand thirty minutes before serving. 

This is tbe best and simplest way to make it, if you can get 
eream. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, three-quarter pound of sugar, one-half 
pint of strong coffee, mix thoroughly and freeze. 

ICE CREAM, NO. 2. 

One pint milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, one pint cream (or 
less), one level tablespoonful flour, one-half cup sugar, one 
saltspoonful salt, one tablespoonful flavoring. Boil the milk, 
mix the sugar, flour and salt and stir into it. Cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly; pour boiling hot onto two well-beaten 
eggs, beating well. Strain, add cream, sugar and flavoring and 
freeze as usual. 

GELATINE ICE CREAM. 

One quart cream, one pint milk, one tablespoonful vanilla, 
one cup sugar, one-eighth package Andrew's gelatine soaked 
till perfectly soft and then drained; one-half saucespoonful salt. 
Scald the milk and sugar, pour boiling-hot water over the gela- 
tine, add salt, strain and cool. AVhip the cream, add it to the 
milk and freeze as usual. This has the merit of packing easily 
into fancy forms and holding its shape in a warm room better 
than pure cream. 

Fruit Creams are made by using one pint of any kind of 
fruit juice and pulp in place of tlie milk, changing the propor- 
tion of sugar as the fruit is more or less acid. Add from one 
cup to one pint of cream when partly frozen. Peach cream is 
improved by adding a few drops of bitter almond. 

Strawberry Mousse. — Put one pint strawberries through a 
potato-ricer, add one cup sugar and let them stand for two hours 



ICE CREAMS, SHERBETS, ETC. 71 

(less will do). Soak one-eighth of a box of Andrew's gelatine 
in one-quarter cup cold water, whip and drain cream enough to 
make three pints after draining. Pack a two-quart mold in a 
freezing mixture, using twice as much salt as usual. Strain the 
crushed strawberries, add enough boiling water to the gelatine 
to dissolve it, strain it into the fruit juice and set in ice water 
till it begins to thicken, then add the whipped cream stirring 
gently until smooth and evenly mixed. Turn it into the 
mold, lay over it a sheet of soft white paper, press the cover 
down close and seal with a buttered strip of cloth or paper. 
Add salt and ice to cover the mold and let stand for at least four 
hours. At serving time wipe the mold with a hot cloth to re- 
move any bits of butter and serve on a flat dish. It should cut 
in smooth slices and show a mossy texture. All fruit mousses 
are made in the same way. Coffee and caramel mousses are 
better if the yolk of an egg be well beaten and added to the hot 
coffee or hot caramel syrup before adding the gelatine; allow 
one egg for each quart of cream. 

BISCUIT ICE CREAM. 

One quart whipped and drained cream, two eggs, one-half 
cup sugar, one-half cup boiling water, one teaspoonful vanilla 
extract. Boil sugar and water together till it will spin, then 
pour slowly over beaten whites of eggs, whisking rapidly all the 
time. Add the beaten yolks and cook over hot water for ten 
minutes, beating steadily all the time. Set away to cool, add 
the wmipped cream when cold and vanilla, pack and freeze like 
mousse, allowing four to six hours to freeze. This is much nicer 
to be flavored with Maraschins, Chartreuse, Abricotine, or some 
other cordial, and it looks handsomer to have the mold lined 
with a sherbet of contrasting color. 

The addition of dried and powdered macaroons, chopped 
almonds and French fruit makes what is called Biscuit Tortoni. 

Sherbets are made of fruit juice, sugar and water. The pro- 
portions are usually one pint of sugar to one quart water, boiled 
twenty minutes, then add one pint of any kind of fruit juice and 
freeze. The addition of one tablespoonful of gelatine soaked 
till soft and dissolved in the boiling syrup, gives a light, creamy 
sherbet that seems much richer than the plain. Almost all fruit 
juice needs the addition of lemon juice to give life to the sherbet. 



72 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

One cup leinon juice, two lumps sugar rubbed on lemon 
rind, one scant pint sugar, one quart water. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Make lemon sherbet as above, add the juice of one large 
orange, one tablespoonful gelatine, and when frozen beat in four 
tablespoonfuls sherry, one gill champagne, one tablespoonful 
rum and freeze for one-half hour before serving. This is much 
harder to freeze than a sherbet or cream. 

ROMAN PUNCH, NO. 2. 

One quart water, one pint sugar, juice of six lemons and one 
orange, one -quarter cup green tea, two tablespoonfuls rum. 

Sorbet. — Make any kind of sherbet, and half freeze it. 
Serve in glasses before or after the roast for a simple sorbet. 

A much finer one is made by mixing several kinds of fruit, 
as one pint chopped pineapple, one-half cup lemon juice, one 
cup orange juice; or one-half cup shaddock and one cup cur- 
rant juice. 

Granites are a kind of rough sorbet and should be frozen 
without much beating or stirring, as the design is to have a 
rough icy mixture. They are served either plain or with some 
kind of cordial beaten in and may come before or after the 
roast. 

Frozen Fruits are not to be frozen hard, they should never 
be kept in the freezer over two hours and a much less time is 
usually sufficient. They may take the place of a punch or sorbet 
in the middle of a dinner or at the beginning of a fashionable 
lunch or breakfast. 

FRESH FRUITS. 

Strawberries are so often gritty that it seems almost neces- 
sary to wash them ; to do this with the least possible damage to 
the berry, put them into a large wire basket, shake it gently in 
deep cold water, then hang the basket to drain the berries. 

Do not hull until needed for the table. Large fine berries 
are often served with the stem on, when of course a small bowl 



ICE CREAMS, SHERBETS, ETC. 73 

of sugar must also be- served to each person. Each berry is 
dipped in the sugar and bitten from the stem. 

Grapes, currants and cherries are good arranged on a dish 
of broken ice. 

Nuts when to go with raisins are served in the shells, 
cracked. Salt should always be on the table with nuts of any 
kind. 

Almonds are salted, or fried in sugar, or roasted, glazed, or 
caramelized and may be served alone with coffee and crackers, 
with sweet wafers or with raisins or figs according to the whim 
of the hostess. 

Preserved Ginger, chestnut paste or conserve of rose 
leaves are especially nice to serve with black coffee, wafers and 
cheese. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Soup. 



The two great divisions of soup made with meat, and soup 
made without, or purees of vegetables, are really all that there 
is to learn about soup-making, as if one can make a strong, clear, 
well-flavored stock and a smooth, creamy, well-seasoned founda- 
tion for a puree, all other varieties of soup are only different 
combinations of the same ingredients, with a different flavor to 
suit the demand for something new. A number of proved 
receipts are given for the benefit of those who have had little or 
no practice. 

PLAIN BROWN SOUP STOCK. 

Six pounds shin of beef in the proportion of four pounds 
lean meat to two pounds bone, gristle, etc., six quarts cold water, 
one-half a chili (red pepper), two whole cloves, one tablespoon- 
ful mixed herbs, six peppercorns, one large onion, one table- 
spoonful salt, two stalks parsley, one carrot, two stalks celery, 
one turnip. Wipe the meat with a wet cloth, cut it from the 
bone and into thin slices across the grain. Reserve several of 
the largest slices with all the marrow, put remainder of meat 
and bones into six quarts of cold water with the spices and 
herbs. Set one side of the fire, where it will be at least an hour 
in coming to the boil. If convenient broil the reserved slices 
till very brown before adding; if not, fry them in the marrow, 
being very careful not to let the fat scorch. Brown the chopped 
vegetables in the same fat before adding them to the soup. 
Simmer eight to ten hours and strain. The next day remove 
the fat and use the stock plain for a beef broth or with 
macaroni or vermicelli, rice, vegetables, etc., according to taste. 

CLEAR SOUP STOCK OF CONSOMME. 

Add four pounds knuckle of veal or a small fowl to the above 

rule, with two ounces lean ham or a bone, of bacon, Brown only 

• 75 ' 



76 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

the vegetables, in order to have the soup light colored. After 
removing the fat add the beaten white and shell of one egg to 
each quart of jelly, with one saltspoonful celery seed, a few 
bits of lemon rind, one teaspoonful lemon juice. Mix well 
together, bring to a boil as quickly as possible, stirring very often. 
Simmer ten minutes more, strain through a thick napkin and 
heat to the boiling point before serving. It should be sparkling 
clear and of a light brown or straw color. 



SUMMER JULIENNE. 

One quart consomme, one-half cup cooked onion cut in 
rings, one-half cup of cooked peas, one-half cup asparagus tips, 
one-half cup cooked string beans, salt and pepper if needed. 
Heat the vegetables and put them into the tureen; pour boiling 
soup over them. 

WINTER JULIENNE. 

One quart of brown stock, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
pint mixed vegetables, one-half saltspoonful pepper. Cut the 
celery and turnip into dice, carrot into match-shaped pieces. 
Use only the very smallest onions, which should be cut in 
halves, so that the layers will separate in cups. Cabbage should 
be coarsely chopped. Cook the vegetables in boiling salted 
water till tender, but not broken. Drain them and add to the 
soup a few minutes before serving. Macaroni, vermicelli, rice, 
tapioca, sago and barley should all be cooked till tender in boil- 
ing salted water before adding to the soup, and then allowed to 
bimmer a few minutes to season through. 

OXTAIL SOUP. 

Wash and cut up two oxtails, separating them at the joints. 
Select about half of the largest and nicest joints to brown in hot 
fai before cooking. Simmer in enough water to cover well until 
perfectly tender. Take out the browned joints and boil the rest 
to rags; strain, cool and remove fat. Reheat this stock, adding 
one quart strong brown stock, more salt and pepper if needed, 
and the reserved joints. It should be served boiling hot. 



soup. 77 

LEFT OVER SOUP. 

Bones and trimmings from a roast of beef, beefsteak bones 
and trimmings, mutton chop bones, any cold vegetables except 
squash, cold cooked eggs in any shape, crusts of bread. There 
should be about six pounds of meat altogether; add whatever 
gravy was left over and four quarts cold water; add one-half 
teaspoonful celery seed, one tablespoonful salt, one clove, four 
peppercorns, and simmer eight or ten hours till the meat is in 
rags and the water reduced one-half. Strain and set away for 
stock. 

Glaze is simply clear stock boiled down to one-eighth its 
original amount. It should be almost like glue in consistency 
and will keep two months if closely covered in a cool place. 
Put it away in small jelly pots or tumblers, so as to open only a 
part at a time. It is invaluable for strengthening weak soups, 
making gravies and browning boiled or steamed meats to look 
and taste like roasts. 

CALF'S HEAD OR MOCK TURTLE. 

One calf's head cleaned with the skin on, cut in halves, and 
well washed in salt and water. Remove the brains and tie them 
in coarse muslin to be cooked separately; boil in four quarts of 
water till the meat is tender and ready to slip from the bones. 
Lay the meat flat on a platter, return bones to the pot and boil 
till the water is reduced to two quarts, then strain and cool. 
Remove fat and return to the fire with two quarts rich brown 
stock, two whole cloves, a blade of mace, six allspice berries, 
one chili, more salt if needed. While this is simmering cut the 
meat and tongue into dice; there should be a generous pint; 
chop the trimmings to a paste ; cook the brains twenty minutes 
and pound with the chopped meat; season with salt, pepper and 
thyme; add a little beaten egg to bind it well together and 
shape in balls size of a large hickory nut and fry them brown in 
a little butter. Brown four tablespoonfuls flour in two table- 
spoonfuls butter or bacon fat and add hot soup to it slowly, stir- 
ring well till smooth; add it to the stock. Put meat balls and 
diced meat into a hot tureen and strain the boiling stock over 
them. As one head is enough for a gallon of soup it will pay to 
put a part of it into glass jars exactly as you would fruit. This 



78 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

is usually served with a glass of sherry wine in the soup, but it 
is equally good with thin slices of lemon and a tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, if you only think so. 

SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 

(Foundation for soups made with milk.) 

One quart milk, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful 
chopped onion, one-half tablespoonful flour, one stalk celery, 
one teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful white pepper, speck 
of cayenne, one-half teaspoonful celery salt. Cook .milk, onion 
and celery twenty minutes in double boiler; cook the flour and 
butter together five minutes, being careful not to brown it, then 
pour it into the soup ; add the seasoning and it is ready to finish 
in any way. 

Potato Soup. — Add three boiled potatoes, mashed very fine, 
to the foundation ; rub through a sieve into hot tureen. 

Celery Soup. — Add one pint stewed and sifted celery to the 
foundation and strain over one egg beaten to a cream, stirring 
well. 

MOCK BISQUE. 

Simmer one-half quart can of tomatoes till very soft, strain 
it and pour into the foundation after the latter has been strained 
into the tureen. Most palates prefer the addition of one-half 
teaspoonful sugar to the tomatoes. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Prepare foundation, omitting onion and celery, and using 
two tablespoonfuls flour. Put one quart oysters in a large bowl 
and pour over them one cup water; take out each oyster with 
the fingers to make sure no shell adheres to it and drain in th« 
colander. Strain the oyster liquor through the finest strainer, 
put it on to boil and skim well; add the oysters and simmer till 
they grow plump and begin to curl on the edges. Add oysters 
to foundation with as much of the broth as will make it of the 
right consistency. Add more salt and pepper if needed and all 
the butter it will bear without floating on the top, Crackers 
browned in the oven are good with this soup. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Fish. 



Fish with dark meat are generally richer and of higher flavor 
than those with white meat, and on that account should be 
chosen for boiling and steaming, never for frying, though they 
are good when panned and baked. 

TO BOIL A 4-LB. FISH. 

Put into your fish-kettle one level tablespoonful salt, six 
peppercorns, two stems parsley, one carrot and one onion each 
cut fine, one cup sour white wine, one pint water. Lay fish on 
the drainer, cover with a buttered paper, set to boil and simmer 
forty minutes, or more if the flesh does not part easily from the 
bones at the end of that time. Strain the water in which it was 
cooked and use with four tablespoonfuls butter and one table- 
spoonful flour to make a white sauce, thicken with one well- 
beaten egg and add one tablespoonful of Soyer's or any other 
tablesauce, one tablespoonful lemon juice and more pepper and 
salt if needed. The wine can be replaced by a little weak vinegar 
or lemon juice. 

DARNE OF SALMON 

Is the middle cut; there are but two, or sometimes three 
from a large fish. Lay in a stew pan on a bed of sliced carrots 
and onions, parsley and peppercorns; dredge lightly with salt 
and pour over one pint claret, one pint thin broth, dot with three 
tablespoonfuls butter and cover with a buttered paper. Bring 
quickly to a boil and simmer very gently one hour. Drain and 
remove the skin, mask with' a remoulade sauce made by rubbing 
well together the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with one raw, 
one teaspoonful mustard, one-half teasponful salt, one-half salt- 
spoonful white pepper, one teaspoonful chopped parsley. Add 

81 



82 THE! STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

two tablespoonfuls vinegar and beat in by degrees one-half pint 
oil alternating with more vinegar until three tablespoonfuls of 
tarragon vinegar have been used, beat with Dover beater till 
very light and thick. The liquor in which the fish is cooked 
can be strained and used several times. 

BROILED FISH. 

Large broiled fish should be split through the back, and for 
most stoves the head and tail must be removed. Use a double 
wire broiler and grease it well before laying in the fish. Dust 
the fish with salt and pepper and broil the flesh side first till 
almost done, then cook on the skin side just long enough to 
brown it well. Small fish require from five to ten minutes. 
Thick ones from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn an old drip- 
ping-pan over the broiler and it will cook more evenly. There is 
no excuse for scorching the fish, as one can always scatter a few 
ashes over a hot fire. Spread generously with butter and set in 
the warming-oven a minute to let it penetrate the fish. Garnish 
with parsley or water-cress after taking from the oven. 

BAKED WHITE FISH OR TROUT. 

Choose a fish weighing about six pounds and have the head 
left on. Clean carefully, letting boiling water run through the 
mouth and eye sockets. Gash the skin at intervals of two inches 
and lay in narrow slips of salt pork. Rub the fish with salt, 
pepper, soft butter and dredge lightly with flour. Skewer it 
in or S shape and lay on bed of pork chips on a fish sheet. 
Put into a hot oven without water in the dripping-pan. Baste 
often with the fat from the pork or a little melted butter. Serve 
on a folded napkin, garnishing with parsley and Saratoga chips 
piled about the fish. 

Stuffing. — One cup of coarse cracker crumbs, one salt- 
spoonful salt, one saltspoonful pepper, one-half teaspoonful 
chopped onion, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one teaspoon- 
ful capers, one teaspoonful chopped pickle, melted butter enough 
to moisten. 

SMALL FISH BAKED. 

Lay in a baking dish with chopped onion, mushrooms and 
parsley, rub the fish with salt, pepper, a bit of nutmeg and dot 



FISH. 83 

with butter. Pour in enough thin broth to cover bottom of dish, 
add a glass of sour wine and bake till the flesh parts easily from 
the bone. 

PANNED FISH. 

This is suitable for very small fish or such as can be cut in 
slices. Have the fish well cleaned, seasoned with pepper and 
salt and dried with a little flour, or better still, very fine bread 
crumbs. Have a large frying pan smoking hot with as little 
grease in it as will keep the fish from sticking. Dripping from 
good, sweet salt pork is the best, but any sweet dripping will do. 
When the fat begins to smoke blue, lay in the fish and brown 
quick on both sides, then cover closely and set back to cook 
more slowly, from ten to twenty minutes, according to the size 
of the fish. 

FRIED FISH. 

Fish for frying should be thoroughly dried after cleaning, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, rolled in fine bread crumbs, then 
dipped in beaten egg, then rolled in crumbs again, fry in deep 
fat like doughnuts; put in only a few pieces at a time to avoid 
chilling the fat and let it reheat before frying any more. The 
temperature should not fall below 375 deg. From two to five 
minutes is sufficient for any but extra large pieces. The fish is 
done when it rises to the top of the fat. Drain perfectly dry 
on paper and arrange on a folded napkin. Fry the parsley 
that is to garnish the dish, taking care to have it crisp, without 
changing its color. 

FISH AU GRATIN. 

Six pounds of any fish with white meat, steamed, freed from 
skin and bone and broken into flakes. One pint of cream sauce 
No. 1, and one cup cracker crumbs moistened with melted but- 
ter; put a layer of fish in a gratin dish, season well with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and celery salt, and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, pour over a part of the cream sauce, repeat till the fish 
is all used, reserving most of the sauce to pour over the top; 
sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top and bake in a rather quick 
oven until it boils up in the middle and the crumbs are brown, 



84 THE STAK CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

FISH SALAD. 

Break cold cooked halibut into convenient pieces, removing 
all skin, bones and fat, marinate with tarragon or spiced vinegar 
and set one side for an hour; arrange on leaves of lettuce and 
serve with Mayonnaise or sauce tartare. 

CREAMED SALT FISH. 

Serve one cup shredded salt fish in cream sauce No. 2, page 
109, in a potato border. 

SANTEED OYSTERS. 

Wash and pick over one pint oysters, add one pint stale 
bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, add one egg beaten 
lightly; let them stand fifteen minutes, then lay by tablespoon- 
fuls into a frying pan with a little hot butter; brown well on 
both sides and serve as soon as possible. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put one tablespoonful butter in a covered saucepan with 
one-half saltspoonful of white pepper, one teaspoonful salt, 
and a few grains of cayenne, when hot add one pint of washed 
and drained oysters, cover closely and shake the pan to keep 
them from sticking; cook about three minutes or until plump. 
Serve on toasted bread or crackers. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Wash oysters in their own liquor, then put a layer of them 
in a deep dish, strew over them a thick layer of cracker dust, a 
little butter, season as you prefer, and spread butter over, then 
another layer of oysters and so on until the dish is full. Set 
them in the oven and bake to a light brown. S. 

CLAM BROTH. 

Twenty-five clams washed and drained, steam till the shells 
open easily; save every drop of juice that comes with opening 
and add enough water to make one quart. With a pair of scis- 
sors trim off the soft part of the clam and reserve to serve with 



FISH. 85 

the broth. Chop the tough portion a little and simmer fifteen 
minutes in the broth. Strain and add pepper and salt if needed, 
and serve in very small bouillon cups. Send the reserved portion 
to the table with melted butter and lemon juice poured over 
them. 

LOBSTERS. 

Choose one that feels heavy in proportion to its size; the 
claws should be darker than the body, if they are spotted with 
black some judges think it shows a richer flavor, especially see 
that the tail is stiff and elastic so that when bent out it springs 
back at once; otherwise they were dead before boiling. Lob- 
sters boiled when dead are watery and soft, and are so 
unwholesome that it is dangerous to eat them. Separate the tail 
from the body and twist off all the claws; shake out carefully the 
tom-ally (this is the liver of the lobster and is of a greenish 
color) also the coral if there is any. Draw the body from the 
shell, remove the stomach and throw it away with the head. 
Split the body and pick every scrap of meat from between the 
fine bones, cut the under side of the tail-shell, loosen the meat 
and take it out in one piece. Split the meat open to remove a 
little vein running its entire length. This is sometimes white, 
sometimes red or black, but must always be carefully taken out 
and thrown away. Shave off the outer edge of the claws, and 
then it is easy to remove the meat without tearing it. To serve 
plain boiled lobster, arrange the meat in the center of a cold 
• platter. Garnish the edges with heart leaves of lettuce, and the 
claws; send to the table with a cut lemon, and let each one season 
for himself with salt, pepper, mustard, vinegar and oil. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Two cups finely diced lobster meat, salt and cayenne to taste, 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, one tablespoonful chopped pars- 
ley, a speck of nutmeg, one cup of thick cream sauce. Add 
lobster, eggs mashed fine, parsley and seasoning to the sauce 
while it is hot. Fill the sections of lobster shell and dust with 
buttered cracker crumbs. Brown in the hottest kind of an oven 
and serve very ,hot. A tablespoonful of Worcestershire or 
Mushroom catsup is an improvement for those who like it very 
highly seasoned. 



86 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTER WITH CECIL SAUCE. 

Cut the meat of a three-pound lobster into inch bits. Put 
one tablespoonful butter into a frying pan and mix with it one 
tablespoonful flour; add slowly one-half cup cream, one-half cup 
stock, the lobster with salt and pepper to taste. Let boil up 
thoroughly then take from the fire and stir in the beaten yolk of 
one egg and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. This may be 
served in paper cases or individual dishes. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG. 

Cut the meat of two small lobsters into small thin slices and 
cook them slowly in four tablespoonfuls of butter for five min- 
utes. Then add one teaspoonful of .salt, one saltspoonful 
pepper, a speck of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls each of brandy 
and sherry, a dash of mace and simmer live minutes longer. 
Beat well the yolks of four eggs, mix with them one cup cream 
and pour it over the cooking mixture. Stir constantly for one 
and one-half minutes, then serve quickly in a warm dish. 
( rarnish with triangles of puff-paste. 

PETITES SAUFFLEES D'HOMARD. 

Dice a two-pound lobster, showing the red side as much as 
possible. Put bands of writing paper, about two inches high, 
around as many individual ramequin cases as you wish to serve. 
Beat three tablespoonfuls of stiff Mayonnaise, one cup Aspic 
jelly, one-half cup tomato sauce together until they begin to look 
white, then stir in the pieces of lobster adding a very little tar- 
ragon vinegar or better still one teaspoonful chopped tarragon 
and put away to stiffen in a very cold place. When set take off 
the papers carefully, garnish with pounded coral or browned 
crumbs. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Lift each point of the back shell, and remove the spongy 
substance found beneath it, taking care to scrape and cut away 
every bit. Turn the crab on its back, and remove the semi-cir- 
cular piece of dark, soft shell called the "apron" or " flap " and 
more of the same spongy substance lying under it. Wash in 



mm. 8? 

eoid water and dry carefully on a towel. Season with salt and 
pepper, dip in egg and roll in crumbs. Fry about three minutes 
in very hot fat, putting in only two at a time, as they should be 
ice-cold when prepared. Serve with Tartar sauce. 

BAKED CRABS. 

After cleaning and seasoning, dip them into melted butter 
and sprinkle thickly with grated bread crumbs. Range on a 
dripping-pan and set into an intensely hot oven for about five 
minutes. Serve with horseradish cream sauce. 

BROILED CRABS. 

Prepare as above, but cook in a double broiler over clear 
hot coals for eight to ten minutes. Serve with melted butter 
and lemon juice poured over. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Roasting and Braising. 



For all roasting and braising the beat sbould be greatest at 
first, to harden the surface of the meat and retain its juice. 
Baste well with its own fat before adding any water. The meat 
should be raised at least an inch and a half from the bottom of 
the baking pan. There are racks made expressly for the 
purpose. Reduce the heat after the first twenty or thirty min- 
utes and allow twelve minutes to the pound for beef and mut- 
ton, fifteen minutes for lamb and veal, thirty minutes for pork. 

ROAST BEEF. 

One of the best pieces for roasting is the tip of the sirloin. 
Have the backbone trimmed very close; cut the ribs close to the 
solid part of the meat and remove them from the flank part. 
Eoll the flank end toward the backbone and with a large needle 
and twine secure it by two or three stitches through the tough 
skin. Do not wash, but sponge with a wet cloth; rub lightly 
with pepper and salt and dredge on flour enough to dry the sur- 
face. Put plenty in the bottom of the pan if a brown gravy is 
wished. Lay on the rack with the serving-side down at first. 
If the oven is hot enough it will need to be turned in about an 
hour. Watch carefully, basting every fifteen minutes, and as 
soon as well browned on all sides pour in enough water to cover 
the bottom of the pan. Let the water cook away toward the 
last, so that the fat can be poured away. After the meat is done 
set it into a hot closet, but do not cover while making gravy. 
Add one pint hot water to the sediment left in pan after the fat 
has been poured off. Place on the stove and scrape all the 
glaze from bottom and side of the pan. When it boils add a 
thickening made of two teaspoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth 
with four tablespoonfuls of cold water, pouring it in slowly, as 
it is not possible to know just how much the browned flour 

89 



90 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

already in the pan will help to thicken it. Boil well, add salt 
and pepper to taste, and strain into a hot dish. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

Roast mutton is cooked in the same way, but the piece 
chosen is usually the leg or loin. The leg is greatly improved 
by having the bone removed and filling its place with a stuffing 
made of one coffee cup coarse cracker crumbs, one teaspoonful 
salt, one saltspoonful pepper, one teaspoonful mint, dried and 
powdered; moisten with melted butter. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Roast veal should have a stuffing made of stale bread, grated. 
Season highly, allowing one teaspoonful *salt, one saltspoonful 
pepper, one-half teaspoonful thyme, a few drops onion juice, 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, and the yolk of one raw egg to 
each scant pint of crumbs. Moisten with melted butter. The 
gravy of veal is improved by adding to it one tablespoonful of 
grated horse-radish. 

ROAST PORK. 

Many persons like a flavor of sage ; in that case sift a tea- 
spoonful of it, finely powdered, over the meat when it is ready 
for the oven. 

ROAST VENISON. 

Unless very young and tender, venison is apt to be hard 
and dry unless larded or protected by a thick covering of flour 
paste. This is as satisfactory a method as any. Wipe the meat 
carefully and draw off the dry skin; lard the lean sides, using 
about one-half pound of clear fat salt pork; rub all over with 
soft butter, then dredge with salt, pepper and flour, being gen- 
erous with the flour. Lay the meat on the rack in the dripping 
pan and sprinkle flour in the pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
diced pork. Watch carefully till the flour in the pan is brown, 
which should be in five minutes. Now add boiling water enough 
to cover the bottom of the pan and close the oven door. In 
fifteen minutes begin to baste with the gravy from the pan and 
baste every ten minutes, renewing the water often, as it boils 



ROASTING AND BRAISING!. 91 

away. At the end of an hour add one-half pint claret to the 
gravy and let the last basting be with soft butter and flour. 
Drain off all the fat from the gravy and add one-half tumbler of 
currant jelly, melted, but do not thicken the gravy for game. 
One and one-half hours is enough for a leg weighing ten pounds. 

ROAST HAM. 

Wash and scrape carefully and soak in cold water twenty- 
four hours. Scrape again and dry thoroughly. Make a dough 
with two quarts of flour and water enough for a stiff paste. 
Roll this into a sheet large enough to wrap the ham; fold the 
ham in it and place on a meat rack in the dripping pan. Bake 
in a moderate oven six hours. On taking from the oven 
remove the paste and skin, sprinkle with fine crumbs and return 
to the oven for half an hour. Dust very carefully with cayenne 
and baste every five minutes with wine, using one cup claret 
and two tablespoonfuls sherry. It will be delicious either hot 
or cold, and is especially nice if served hot with champagne 
sauce. 

BRAISING. 

Braising is particularly adapted for meats that are lacking 
in flavor or are tough. A deep pan with a close fitting cover are 
necessary; granite ware is the most satisfactory for small ones, 
while larger ones should be made of Russia iron with folded 
seams, as both pan and cover must be without solder. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

Trim a piece weighing about four pounds into a smooth 
shape; lard it on each side with three or four .pieces of salt 
pork; let it marinate for twelve hours in the juice of one lemon, 
one tablespoonful salad oil, one tablespoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful peppercorn, a sprig each of thyme and parsley. 
Brown the meat well on all sides in a frying-pan, then lay it in 
the braising pan on a bed of chopped onion, carrot and pars- 
ley; pour in boiling water to half cover and cook in a moderate 
oven two hours or more until very tender; turn once in the 
time; lift the meat onto a hot platter; skim the fat from the 
gravy and skim out the vegetables to serve with the meat if 



92 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

liked. Thicken the gravy with one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour and strain it over the meat. This dish is often served with 
a garnishing of several different kinds of vegetables cooked 
separately in clear water and arranged around it. 

FR1CAUDEAU OF VEAL. 

Cut a block weighing about three pounds from the leg; 
remove the sinews and lard the top with rather small strips of 
salt pork. Brown it lightly in a frying pan and lay on a bed of 
one sliced carrot, one sliced onion and a bouquet. Season with 
one scant tablespoonful salt, a dust of pepper; cover the bottom 
of the pan with white broth and cook in a braising pan for one 
and one-half hours, basting occasionally. Serve with one-half 
pint puree of spinach on the dish, placing the veal on top. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Calf's liver is braised in the same way, except that sweet 
herbs are added to the broth, and just before serving one-half 
pint of Spanish sauce is poured over it. It will cook in forty-five 
minutes. Strain the thickened gravy over and garnish with 
small boiled onions. 

SWEETBREADS BRAISED. 

Take six blanched sweetbreads, lard the upper side slightly 
and saute th^m with some bits of fat pork; add one-half cupful 
each of sliced onion and carrot and a bouquet; dredge with salt 
and flour and shake until a golden brown, then moisten with 
one pint strong white stock. Cover with a buttered paper and 
cook in a hot oven forty minutes, lifting the paper often to baste 
them. They will then be ready to serve with any desired sauce. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Entrees. 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 

Cut two and one-half pounds steak into small pieces with a 
very little fat, dip each piece into flour, place them in a pie 
dish, season each layer with pepper, salt and a very little 
cayenne pepper, fill the dish sufficiently with slices of steak to 
raise the crust in the middle, half fill the dish with water or anj r 
gravy left from roast beef, and one tablespoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce, put a border of paste around the wet edge of the 
pie dish, moisten it and lay the crust over it, cut the paste even 
with the dish, butter top and bake. 

One cup tomatoes makes a very nice addition if there be 
not sufficient gravy or stock. S. 

CHICKEN POT PIE. 

Divide the chicken into pieces at the joints, boil until part 
done, or about twenty minutes, then take it out, fry two or three 
slices of fat salt pork and put in the bottom, then place the 
chicken on with one cup of water, two ounces of butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste and cover the top with alight 
crust, the same as for biscuit. Bake in an oven that is hotter at 
the top than at the bottom, and when well risen and brown 
cover with a paper or the crust will burn before the pie is baked 
through. Remove fat from the water in which the chicken was 
boiled, thicken with a little flour, season to taste, add one cup 
good cream and when the pie is done pour this gravy through 
the holes of the crust. S. 

HOW TO BROIL A STEAK. 

A steak should be evenly cut about three-quarters of an inch 

thick, if cut any thicker it is apt to be brown on the outside, 

95 



96 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

while still uncooked inside. Do not wash the steak, take a wet 
cloth and wipe or rather mop it, but do not pour water on it. 
Whatever cooks may urge in favor of pounding a steak, it is not 
good ; it breaks the cells of the meat in which the gravy is con- 
tained ; if there is a tough piece on the steak it may be hacked 
a little with the back of a knife. Heat the broiler, wipe with a 
clean cloth, just before using, rub the bars with suet to prevent 
from marking the meat and watch constantly to keep from 
burning, smoking or catching fire, lifting it up when necessary, 
but do no turning until the one side is nicely browned ; then 
turn to the other side, then turn once more, that is, twice for 
each side, season with pepper and salt and pour a little melted 
butter on top. S. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Geese and ducks, if old, are better if parboiled before they 
are roasted. Put them on in sufficient water to cover them and 
simmer about two hours. Make a stuffing with four onions, one 
ounce green sage chopped fine, a large cupful of stale bread 
crumbs and the same of mashed potatoes, one cup raisins, one 
cup of fine chopped apples, one teaspoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful salt, pepper, two eggs, mix well together and stuff the 
body of the goose, then place in a good hot oven and bake about 
one hour and a half, and serve apple sauce with it. , S. 

STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 

Mix thoroughly one quart of stale bread, very finely grated, 
grate a rind of a lemon, quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley, 
one onion, a little thyme and season with salt and pepper, then 
add two eggs, one-half cup of butter, mix all well together and 
moisten with hot milk. , S. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING, HOTEL STYLE. 

One quart flour, two heaped teaspoonfuls Star Crystal Bak- 
ing Powder, one cup butter, one teaspoonful salt, rub butter into 
the flour, add ice cold water enough to make a short dough, mix 
light with a spoon, and bake in a hot oven, and serve with roast 
meats. S. 



ENTREES. 97 

MINCED BEEF. 

Take cold pieces of beef that have been left over, and chop 
them fine, then add two boiled potatoes, one onion chopped fine, 
pepper and salt, a little beef broth if handy, put all in a frying 
pan and cook slowly; a poached egg should be served with it. 

MEAT BALLS. 

Chop a piece of boiled beef with one onion, season with 
salt and pepper, add parsley, stale bread crumbs, and flavor 
with nutmeg; moisten it with an egg, mix well, form into small 
balls, roll in flour, and fry in hot fat. 

JUMBALLAYA. 

Wash one pound rice and soak it one hour, cut up a cold roast 
chicken or remnants of turkey and a slice of ham. Toss it 
lightly in one heaping tablespoonful of butter till slightly 
browned. Stir in the rice and add slowly one pint hot water or 
broth, cover closely and set where it can cook slowly till the 
rice is tender. It is very nice made with oysters or shrimps. 

CALF'S BRAIN BREADED. 

Separate the two lobes of the brain with a knife, soak them 
in cold water with a little salt for one hour; then pour away 
water and cover with hot water, clean and skin them; then dip 
in egg and milk, roll in bread crumbs and fry slowly in deep hot 
fat, serve tomato sauce with it. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Take one-half pound cheese (American cheese preferred), 
three tablespoonfuls ale, a thin slice of toast, grate the cheese 
fine, put it to the ale, and work it in a small saucepan over a 
slow fire till it is melted, spread it on toast and serve hot. (If 
ale is not at hand, use beer or milk.) 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Eggs. 



BREAKFAST EGGS. 

Should never be boiled. A thin shell of the white is 
made hard and indigestible, while the bulk of the egg is 
barely warmed through. The following is a better way. Put 
six into a vessel that will hold two quarts. Fill with boiling 
water, cover closely and set on the stove shelf for seven minutes 
to cook very soft ; ten minutes for medium, twelve to fifteen 
minutes for very firm. Crumple a napkin in a hot dish and 
serve ranged in its folds. 

POACHED EGGS. 

For six persons allow six eggs, one tablespoonful milk, one 
saltspoonful salt, a speck of pepper and one-half teaspoonful 
of butter to each egg. Break the egg into a bowl, add the season- 
ing but do not beat. When the milk begins to boil pour in the 
eggs and seasoning. Do not stir but as the egg cooks, scrape 
gently from bottom of the dish, drawing the cooked mass to one 
side. Remove from fire before it is quite firm through, turn 
into a hot dish and serve quickly. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Are the same as above, but omit the milk. 

DROPPED EGGS. 

For this the eggs should be new-laid and cold. Put a quart 
of water, one teaspoonful salt and one teaspoonful vinegar in 
a shallow pan, arrange in it as many muffin rings as there are 
eggs to be cooked, and set the pan where the water will bubble 
at one side only. Break the eggs one at a time and slide them 

99 



100 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

into the rings. If the water does not cover thern, gently pour 
on a little more boiling water till it does. Cook till the white is 
set over the yolks ; then pour off most of the water ; with a 
cake-turner lift each egg and lay on a slice of buttered toast, 
removing the ring after it is in place. 

GRIDDLED EGGS. 

Heat the griddle almost as inuch as for baking cakes, butter 
it lightly and range small muffin rings on it. Drop an egg in 
each and turn as soon as lightly browned. They resemble fried 
eggs, but are far more delicate. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Make a thin white sauce with one cup milk, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, one teaspoonful flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
quarter teaspoonful pepper, one teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
Pour this sauce into a large ramequin dish or deep pie plate and 
break into it as many eggs as you wish. Bake in a moderate 
oven till the white is set, or, omit the parsley and sprinkle grated 
cheese over it before baking. ' 

SPANISH EGGS. 

Rub the inside of a frying pan with a freshly cut onion, pare 
one large tomato and cut into small bits, put into the pan one 
heaping tablespoonful butter, add tomato as soon as it is 
melted and cook for five minutes, stirring occasionally. Beat 
the eggs enough to break the yolks and turn them into the hot 
tomato with one teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful 
pepper; stir like poached eggs and serve on buttered toast. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS. 

Cook four eggs twenty minutes, make a white sauce with 
one cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful corn- 
starch; lay six small squares of buttered toast on a dish, cover 
it with white sauce, then sprinkle with the whites chopped fine, 
and the yolks pressed through a ricer. 



EGGS. 101 

EN MARINADE. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, with four whole cloves stuck in each; 
rub together one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful pep- 
per, one-half teaspoonful mustard with a little cold vinegar ; let one 
pint vinegar come to the boil, add the spice and cook one min- 
ute, pour boiling hot over the eggs, in a glass jar, cover closely. 
They will be ready to use in about two weeks. A few pieces of 
boiled beet in the vinegar will turn them a pretty pink. These 
are nice for picnics and lunches, or to accompany broiled beef 
steak. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Put four eggs into a bowl with half a teaspoonful salt, one 
scant saucespoonful pepper, give them twelve vigorous beats 
with a fork and add four tablespoonfuls milk or cream; put one 
teaspoonful butter in an omelet pan, shake it over the fire till 
frothy, turn in the eggs and shake over a quick fire until they 
are set; roll and turn on to a dish. To make Jelly, Parsley, 
Ham, Cheese or Chicken Omelet spread the seasoning over the 
egg just before rolling it. 

OMELET, NO. 2. 

For each egg allow one saltspoonful salt, a dust of pepper, 
one tablespoonful of liquid (milk, cream, stock, tomato, etc.). 
Break whites and yolks separately, beating each until very 
light; add seasoning and fold the yolks into the whites, stirring 
as little as possible. Have the omelet pan hot, melt in it one 
teaspoonful of butter and cook over a quick fire until well 
browned on the bottom, then set into the oven until the top is 
set. Fold carefully not to break the crust, and turn onto a hot 
dish. Serve at once. This omelet is delicious made with ham, 
or green peas, or asparagus tips. The latter should be well 
cooked, drained, seasoned and spread on just before folding 
the omelet; the ham may be folded in or mixed through the 
whole egg. Oysters should be parboiled and drained; the liquor 
from them may be strained and used instead of milk to give a 
richer flavor to the omelet. 



THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK EOOK. 

BAKED OMELET. 

: peieone de - :. Bggjs, one-half e -pful of milk, 

spoonfed Star Crystal Eak. _ 

rabies] 'onful I mix the 

__~ - stifl Id the Bali 

__~ iiough to mix -well. 

Put the butter in a hot frying pan, add milk, flour and baking 

leri egga I stir quickly: turn the mixture into the 

a about ten minutes, or untii 
L set : brow: and turn on a dish as usual. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Salads, 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls oil, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful vinegar, one-half saltspoonful pepper; beat salt, 
pepper and oil together with a fork, then add the vinegar slowly, 
beating well. Use at once, as the jelly soon separates. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Put into a cold bowl the yolks of three eggs and beat with a 
Dover beater until very light and thick ; add one level teaspoon- 
ful mustard, one level teaspoonful salt, one saltspoonful sugar, 
one-half saltspoonful cayenne, and a few drops of oil. Con- 
tinue beating until too thick to turn the beater easily. Add 
lemon juice to thin it, alternately with more oil, until two table- 
spoonfuls have been used; after that add vinegar to the same 
amount. It will take about one pint of oil to make this amount 
stiff enough to hold its shape when dropped from a spoon. At 
the last whip four tablespoonfuls of cream thick and stiff and 
beat into the sauce. If the sauce is to be kept any length of 
time do not add the cream until just before using, or omit cream 
entirely, using just enough oil to make it of the right consistence. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste ; 
add gradually to them one teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful sugar, one-half saltspoonful cayenne, one teaspoonful mus- 
tard and two tablespoonfuls vinegar; have one pint cream very 
cold and whip it till thick and smooth; beat this, a tablespoon- 
ful at a time, into the mixture with a whisk. 

105 



106 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

BOILED DRESSING. 

Cook one teaspoonful flour in one tablespoonful butter two 
minutes, pour into it slowly one-half cup of boiling hot vinegar, 
beating smooth with a wooden spoon; cook five minutes, then 
pour into it one egg, beaten smooth; cook one minute and set 
away to cool; thin with cream when ready to use. This is par- 
ticularly nice for cold slaw, and should be poured hot over the 
chopped cabbage. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Clean and blanch one pair of large sweetbreads (there 
should be enough to make a pint when diced) ; marinate them 
with one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful oil, pep- 
per and salt to taste, and set them on ice for an hour or more. 
At serving time add an equal bulk of diced celery, enough may- 
onnaise to moisten well and arrange it in six portions on a bed 
of lettuce leaves. Drop a teaspoonful of dressing on top of each 
and garnish with olives cut in spirals. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

For a one pound can or a solid pint of oysters use the follow- 
ing dressing: Beat well two eggs, add to them one-fourth cup 
each of cream and vinegar, one-half teaspoonful each of mus- 
tard, celery salt and salt, a dust of cayenne, one tablespoonful 
butter. Put into double boiler and cook like soft custard. Par- 
boil the oysters, drain them and add the dressing. Set away to 
cool and at serving time add one pint diced celery. 

•vegetable salads. 

Vegetable salads can be made of any kind of cooked vegeta- 
bles, but some kinds combine better than others. Peas, string 
or shell beans, cauliflower, asparagus and young carrots combine 
well, turnips, carrots, beets, cabbage, spinach, tomatoes, make 
another combination, but it is generally best to use potatoes for 
the body of the salad, adding other vegetables to give color and 
flavor A large variety is known as "Salade Macedoine," or 
sometimes Russian salad. Each vegetable should be cooked and 
cut separately, then mixed lightly in a bowl with French dress- 



SALADS. 107 

ing and set on ice to cool before serving. Rub the salad bowls 
with a cut onion before arranging the salad, and if it is liked 
very moist and highly seasoned, double the quantity of dressing 
or send a bowl of mayonnaise to the table with it. Garnish with 
nasturtium in the season and cut them up with the salad. 
Sliced gherkins, pickled beets, marinated eggs, Thon Marine 
make savory garnishes. 

SPINACH SALAD. 

Press all the water from boiled spinach and mince it fine ; 
toss it with a French dressing and set away to season for an 
hour; serve with a cream dressing and garnish with strips of 
white cut from hard boiled eggs and strips of cucumber cut 
lengthwise; rub the yolks through a strainer and place it in a 
mound in the center. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD. 

Choose the heart leaves of head lettuce, heap a few straw- 
berries in each and dust them lightly with powdered sugar; lay 
a teaspoonful of mayonnaise on each portion and serve cut 
lemons with them; delicious for lunch. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

For six persons pare four rather acid oranges, slice them 
very thin, cutting down the sides instead of across, and sprinkle 
sparingly with sugar. Mix one tablespoonful sherry with one 
of yellow Chartreuse and one of lemon juice and pour it over 
the fruit. Set on ice an hour before using. Serve before the 
game course. 

ANCHOVY SALAD. 

Soak twelve Norwegian anchovies over night, drain them 
and dry by pressing gently in a cloth; remove bone and skin 
and roll each half in a fillet; lay these on a bed of shredded let- 
tuce; garnish with sliced cucumbers and cut olives and marinate 
with a French dressing. Serve with sauce tartare made by 
adding one teaspoonful each of finely chopped parsley, gher- 
kins and capers to one cup very thick mayonnaise. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES, 



Meat and Fish Sauces. 



The foundation for almost all our common sauces is what the 
French call a " roux, " made as follows : 

Melt one ounce (one rounded tablespoonful) butter in a 
saucepan and let it boil till it begins to show a pale straw color. 
Add two tablespoonfuls flour and stir briskly. Add one pint hot 
milk, or milk and water, or water, pouring slowly and beating 
hard, add one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful white 
pepper and a speck of cayenne and you have a plain white sauce 
or drawn butter to which a good tablespoonful of butter should 
be added just long enough to melt before going to the table. 

When the butter and flour are allowed to become brown it 
is called a brown roux and is used for soups, stews, gravies, etc. 

CREAM SAUCE NO. 1. 

One pint cream, one-half teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful 
butter, one-half saltspoonful pepper, two tablespoonfuls flour, a 
speck cayenne. Make as above. 

CREAM SAUCE NO. 2. 

Make as in No. 1, using only one scant tablespoonful flour 
and thickening with a liaison of two egg yolks beaten with an 
equal bulk of cold water, return to the sauce pan until the sauce 
thickens like soft custard. 

CREAM SAUCE NO. 3, FOR CROQUETTES, ETC 

Allow two tablespoonfuls butter and four heaping tablespoon- 
fuls flour to a pint of cream, seasoning as before. This sauce is 
much improved by using half or more rich chicken stock in place 
of all cream. 

VELVET SAUCE. 

Melt one ounce butter, add two tablespoonfuls flour and stir 
well. Moisten with one quart good veal or chicken stock, add a 

109 



110 THE STAR CRYSTAL BAKING POAVDER. 

bouquet, one-half cup of mushroom liquor, six whole peppers, 
one saltspoonful salt, a suspicion of nutmeg. Boil for twenty- 
minutes stirring continuously, then remove to side of fire, skim 
well, and simmer very slowly one hour. Strain and add more 
salt and pepper if needed. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Two carrots, one onion, cut fine and cooked in two ounces 
bacon or sausage dripping, add one sprig thyme, one bay leaf, 
six peppers, one clove, two sprigs parsley, four stalks celery (or 
one-quarter teaspoonful celery seed). Two quarts weak white 
broth of any kind and simmer gently for one-half hour; then add 
strong brown stock enough to make four quarts. 

Boil slowly three hours, adding any bones of roast veal or 
ham at hand. Strain and put away for constant use. It will 
keep a month in cold weather and is the foundation for number- 
less fancy sauces. 

MAYONAISE SAUCE. 

Two raw egg yolks in an earthen bowl with one-half teaspoon- 
ful dry mustard, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful 
cayenne. Beat with a Dover beater till very light, then add drop 
by drop one pint of salad oil beating constantly. If it thickens 
too much to stir well, put in lemon juice until two tablespoonfuls 
have been used, then add vinegar until as sour as wished, but 
avoid thinning too much. 

Oil should be kept in the dark and at a moderate temperature, 
sixty-five degrees to seventy-five degrees, to secure the best 
results. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

Is made by adding tp the above fifteen drops onion juice, 
one teaspoonful capers, one teaspoonful gherkins, one teaspoon- 
ful parsley, each chopped exceedingly fine, one teaspoonful 
chervil if you have it. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Cook one tablespoonful flour in one teaspoonful butter, add 
slowly one cup strong veal or chicken stock; when it boils remove 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. Ill 

from the fire and whisk in the yolks of four eggs beaten smooth 
with one tablespoonful lemon juice and a few drops of onion 
juice, if liked; return to the fire and stir constantly till it begins 
to stiffen, then drop in one tablespoonful butter and beat with 
whisk till dissolved and smooth. It sounds like more trouble 
than it is, and is the best sauce made for boiled fish, cauliflower, 
asparagus, etc. 

SAUCE FOR FRIED FISH OR FISH BALLS. 

Two teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, one teaspoonful of flour, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soft butter, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

Mix in the order given, in a granite sauce pan; add one-half 
cup of boiling water and stir on the fire till it thickens and is 
smooth. Add two tablespoonfuls finely chopped pickles and 
serve it cold. 

HORSE-RADISH BUTTER. 

Pound in a mortar one teaspoonful of grated horse radish with 
one tablespoonful of butter. Season with one-third saltspoonful 
of red pepper. Rub through a fine sieve and keep in a cool 
place. When this butter is added to other sauces it should not 
boil again. 

SHRIMP BUTTER. 

Pick the meat from twelve cooked shrimp ; dry the shells 
and pound altogether in a mortar adding one tablespoonful of 
good butter ; place in a saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring 
until it clarifies, it will take about five minutes. Strain through 
a napkin pressing hard, and letting it drop into cold water. 
When it is hard, take it out and place in a warm howl, stirring 
till it takes the desired color. Lobster butter is made in the 
same way. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

One cup of freshly grated horse-radish, one teaspoonful salt, 
one-half saltspoonful pepper, one teaspoonful made mustard, 
two tablespoonfuls vinegar, well mixed together. Add one-half 
cup cream whipped very stiff. 



112 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

One pint white stock, two tablespoonfuls butter, four table- 
spoonfuls flour, six mushrooms, or the liquor from a half can, 
one cup cream, one and a half tablespoonfuls lemon juice. Cook 
the butter and flour well together with salt and pepper if the 
stock is not already well seasoned. Add the stock as in plain 
white sauce, then the mushrooms, washed, peeled and cut 
small ; let the sauce simmer twenty minutes with the lid half on. 
Skim off the butter as it rises. Strain through a fine sieve press- 
ing hard ; add the cream and lemon juice and let boil about 
three minutes. Pour out and stir often while cooling. If this 
is to be used to mask a chaud-froid it will need one tablespoon- 
ful gelatine. 

WELSH RAREBIT NO. 2. 

Prepare six slices of toast, removing the crusts. Cut one 
pound of soft cheese in small bits and put them in a chafing- 
dish. Add one-half glass of ale or bt,er, one-half saltspoonful 
red pepper, and stir with a silver spoon until the whole mass 
is well melted. Serve the preparation on the toast which should 
already be on the plates. 

WELSH RAREBIT AU GRATIN. 

Prepare toast as in No. 2. (/over each slice with Swiss cheese, 
cut half inch thick. Lay them in a dripping-pan and dust lightly 
with pepper or spread made mustard over. Set in a hot oven 
till well melted, about ten minutes. The addition of a dropped 
egg to each slice makes what is called a Golden Buck. 

DEVILED ALMONDS. 

Blanch and shred two ounces almonds, fry to a light brown 
in butter, mix one tablespoonful of Chutney, two chopped 
gherkins, one tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, one-quarter 
teaspoonful salt and a speck of cayenne well together, and toss 
the almonds in the mixture. Serve on croutons of fried bread. 

COQUILLES OF OYSTER. 

Blanch two dozen medium sized oysters in their own liquor 
for five minutes, add one-quarter saltspoonful pepper and one- 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 113 

half ounce butter ; then drain them keeping the liquor for 
further use. Add the oysters to one-half pint velvet sauce, mix 
with three tablespoonfuls of the oyster liquor ; keep it thick 
and be very careful not to break the oysters. Fill table shells 
with this preparation, cover with buttered crumbs and brown 
for five or six minutes in a very hot oven. Dress on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin and serve. 

CROQUETTES OF MACARONI. 

Boil one-quarter pound macaroni in salted water until very 
tender. Drain and toss in a saucepan with one heaped table- 
spoonful butter, one-half ounce Parmesan cheese, one-quarter 
ounce cooked tongue cut in fine dice. Spread on a well-buttered 
platter, about one inch thick, cover with a buttered paper, press 
it well down and set away to cool. Divide with the back of a 
knife into six parts, roll each one in grated cheese, then in 
beaten egg and in crumbs. Fry in very hot fat till well browned. 
Drain and serve on a folded napkin. 

SALPICON ROYAL. 

Cut a blanched sweetbread into small pieces and put them 
into a saucepan with one level tablespoonful of butter, six mush- 
rooms and one truffle all cut into one-half inch dice. Add them 
to one-half pint of white sauce well seasoned with salt, pepper 
and a speck of nutmeg if liked. Let cook on a slow fire five 
minutes, tossing gently. Finish by adding one level tablespoon- 
ful shrimp butter, p. 111. Stir well and use to fill boucheesor for 
garnishing. 

SALPICON OF LOBSTER. 

One pint of good white sauce in a saucepan with four mush- 
rooms, one truffle and one-quarter pint of diced lobster meat, 
that from the claw is the best. Thicken well by cooking five 
minutes, or add a liaison of two egg yolks and serve. The meat 
of three crawfish or six shrimps may be used instead of lobster. 

COQUILLES OF CHICKEN, ENGLISH FASHION. 

Fill six table-shells with a thick salpicon of chicken, mush- 
rooms and truffles, made like the royal. Sprinkle the tops with 



114 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

grated bread crumbs well buttered. Bake a handsome brown 
in a very hot oven. Serve on a folded napkin. 

CANAPE MADISON. 

Prepare six medium sized slices of well-browned toast. 
Cover each with a very thin slice of lean cooked ham. Spread 
with a little made mustard, cover with a garnishing a la Pro- 
vencale, dust a little grated Parmesan cheese over and strew 
buttered crumbs over all. Bake in a fiercely hot oven for six 
to eight minutes, or till well browned. Send to the table very 
hot, dressed on a hot dish with a folded napkin. 

GARNISHING A LA PROVENCALE. 

9 

Peel two solid white onions, mince them and parboil for five 
minutes ; drain well and toss them in an omelet pan with one 
tablespoonful fresh butter for five minutes. Rub the spoon with 
a freshly cut clove of garlic, add a dash of lemon juice or white 
wine, one-half tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese and one- 
half cup good white sauce. Season with salt and pepper. Stir 
all well until it comes to the boil, then set away to cool. 

CHAUD-FROID OF CHICKEN. 

Cut a cold-boiled chicken carefully into smooth joints, re- 
moving the skin. Mask each piece with Bechamel sauce, and 
arrange in a ring on a bed of lettuce. Mix sliced cucumber, 
diced beets and chopped tarragon with the heart-leaves of the 
lettuce and heap them in the centre. Served either with or 
without mayonnaise. 

WHITE CURRY. 

One fowl, one onion, two tablespoonfuls butter, two table- 
spoonfuls curry powder, two ounces sweet almonds, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one-half tablespoonful lemon juice, one-half pint 
water. Cook the sliced onion in the butter till soft, but do not 
brown. Then add the fowl cut in very small pieces ready for 
serving. Sprinkle over the curry powder (most people would 
prefer half the quantity) and stir over the fire for five minutes. 
Blanch the almonds and pound them with a little water. When 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. H5 

they are quite fine, put the remainder of the water to them and 
grind them well. Strain this through a strong strainer cloth 
pressing hard. It should come through looking like milk. Add 
this with salt to the fowl and simmer till tender ; put in lemon 
mice just before serving. This is excellent made with veal. 
Grated cocoa-nut may take the place of almonds. Serve with 
rice. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



VEGEtABLES. 



French cooks very generally use carbonate of ammonia in 
cooking vegetables, to preserve the color. It is said to be harm- 
less, as the ammonia all evaporates in boiling. A safe way is to 
allow a bit of bi-carbonate of soda, as large as a pea, to each 
quart of water, for all strong smelling vegetables, string beans, 
cauliflower, etc. It helps to make them tender, and relieves a 
little of the disagreeable smell, but the water should be changed 
for a few minutes before they are done, and a little salt added 
to the last water. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off outside leaves and lay blossoms down in cold salted 
water. Slugs and other insects will drop out, especially if gently 
shaken in the water. Tie in a piece of mosquito netting and lay 
in boiling salted water till very tender. Drain and serve with 
Hollandaise Sauce or Cream Sauce No. 1. This makes a delicious 
garnish for fried spring chicken or fried sweetbreads. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Trim closely, pare the under side, and cook in boiling 
water, with salt and a little vinegar. After they have cooked 
forty minutes, test by pulling out a leaf; if it detaches easily, it 
is done. Turn upside down on a sieve to drain. Serve with 
white, Bechamel or Hollandaise sauce. To keep them green, tie 
a bit of charcoal the size of an egg in a piece of cloth, and boil 
with them. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Choose a sound, smooth egg plant and drop into boiling water 

for ten minutes, then set to cool while preparing stuffing. One 

pint grated bread, one egg, two tablespoonfuls butter, one tea- 

117 



118 



THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 



spoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful cayenne, one-half teaspoon- 
ful chopped onion, one teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cook onion 
and parsley in a large frying pan three minutes, then add one- 
half the bread crumbs. Divide the egg plant in two lengthwise, 
and with a spoon scoop out the greater part, leaving a shell 
nearly an inch thick. Chop this fine and add it to the bread 
crumb mixture in the frying pan. Cook the whole slowly, 
stirring often for ten or fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire, 
add the egg well beaten, and fill the shells, covering with 
remainder of the crumbs, and dotting with bits of butter. 
Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, and serve very hot. 

CELERY FRIED IN BATTER. 

Take small roots, or divide large ones lengthwise ; trim the 
root portion smooth, and cut the stalks down to four or five 
inches long. Cook ten minutes in boiling salted water, dry 
quickly on a thick towel. Dip them in fritter batter and fry a 
good brown in deep hot fat. Drain on soft paper, arrange on a 
folded napkin and send to the table with grated cheese. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with salt and pepper, a little 
nutmeg; beat to a cream, with a tablespoonful of melted butter 
to every cupful of potatoes, add two beaten eggs and some 
chopped parsley. Roll into small balls, dip in egg and milk, 
coat them with cracker dust, and fry. in hot lard. S. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Beat an egg light and add to it one-half cup of milk, pour 
this mixture upon one cup of flour and beat well ; then add one 
teaspoonful salt, a little pepper and a spoon of melted butter, 
mix well, add one-half can of corn, chopped very fine, drop by 
spoonfuls into boiling lard and cook about three minutes. S. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil five parsnips until tender, take off the skins and mash 
very fine, add one teaspoonful of flour, one egg, a little salt. 



VEGETABLES. 119 

Make the mixture into small cakes with a spoon. Fry them on 
both sides to a delicate brown <uicl serve hot. S. 



VERMICELLI CAKES. 

Bring one quart of water to boil and drop one pound of 
vermicelli into the boiling water, stir well and strain when 
tender through a sieve ; then add one cup of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls Star Crystal Baking Powder, the yolks of three eggs, 
one-half cup of melted butter, beat the whites of the eggs to a 
very stiff froth, mix thoroughly and bake in hot oven. S. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Take one-half pound of pipe macaroni, seven ounces of 
cheese, four ounces of butter, one pint of fresh milk, one quart 
of water, and some bread crumbs. Flavor milk and water with 
a pinch of nutmeg and salt, set over the fire and when boiling 
drop in the macaroni. When tender drain it from the milk and 
water ; put it into a deep dish, sprinkle some of the grated 
cheese on top, pour the remainder over it and bake to a nice 
brown. S. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Cut the sprouts from two medium-sized stalks, pick off all 
tarnished leaves and lay them for an hour in salted water. 
Drain them well and cook in plenty of boiling water uncovered 
till tender, from ten minutes to half an hour, according to their 
age. Drain in a colander and serve with a Bechamel or Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

SPRING CARROTS. 

Wash and scrape them, parboil for ten minutes and dry 
them on a cloth. Return to the saucepan with one heaped table- 
spoonfui sugar, one cup stock, one tablespoonful butter, and 
boil gently about half an hour or until perfectly tender then 
remove the cover and boil fast until the stock is reduced to 
glaze. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and serve with 
the glaze on them. 



120 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash carefully two bunches green asparagus, cut the ends 
until the tender part is reached. Arrange in one large bundle 
and fasten with a broad band of coarse muslin, pinned at each 
side. Boil gently in salted water until done, about twenty 
minutes. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

ASPARAGUS AU POIS. 

Cut the tender part in bits as long as the stems are thick 
and boil till tender. Drain and add to two bunches one-half 
cup cream, one-quarter teaspoonful salt. Simmer till reduced 
to a thick sauce and serve like green peas. 

BROILED CEPES. 

Open the can and pour off the oil. Drop the cfcpes into hot 
water to cleanse them from the oil and dry them on a soft cloth. 
Season with salt and pepper, brush them with melted butter 
and roll in flour. Broil for six minutes over a hot fire. Place 
each on a round of toast, pour over a little melted butter and 
lemon juice and serve at once. 

STEWED CEPES. 

Free from oil as before and cut into cubes. For a pint can 
use three tablespoonfuls butter, one tablespoonful flour, one 
tablespoonful lemon juice, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
onion juice, a dust of pepper and one-half pint stock. Melt the 
butter and add the cepes and flour. Stir until a light coffee 
brown, then add the stock and seasonings and set back to sim- 
mer five minutes. If this is to be served as an entree, arrange 
on toast ; but they make a delicious garnish for broiled fish. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms are often plenty in the fields during the summer 
and fall, and are far superior in delicacy and flavor to the cul- 
tivated ones, but they should be used while fresh. Cut off and 
throw away the stems, pare the tops and throw them into a 
bowl with plenty of water with a little vinegar. Use a silver 
knife and if the vegetables do not blacken the silver they are 
safe to use. 



VEGETABLES. 121 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Cut them in small bits after draining from the acidulated 
water and for each pint allow a generous tablespoonful of butter, 
one-half teaspoonful salt and a speck of pepper, just enough 
water to keep them from sticking to the sauce pan, simmer for 
ten minutes, or, use one-half cup of cream instead of water and 
serve on toast. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Select large ones with deep cups. Place over clear coals cup 
side down first and cook two minutes, then turn and cook two 
minutes on the other side, remove carefully not to spill the juice 
and serve on buttered toast, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
lay a bit of butter on each. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

Lay them in a baking dish cup side up. Fill the cups 
with any kind of chopped and seasoned meat. Cover with 
buttered crumbs and bake in a very hot oven ten to fifteen 
minutes. 

LENTILS. 

Wash and soak one pint of lentils over night. In the morn- 
ing drain and cover with fresh warm water adding one-quarter 
teaspoonful bi-carbonate of soda. Boil gently till they begin to 
grow tender (probably about two hours). Change them to fresh 
water, adding one teaspoonful salt and cook till they break at the 
least touch. Drain in a colander. Put two tablespoonfuls butter 
in a frying pan ; when melted add the lentils with salt and pepper 
to taste ; toss over the fire for fifteen minutes. Delicious served 
with cold meat for lunch. 

POTATOES 

Should always be peeled before boiling except while very 
young and delicate. If they are not mealy, wrap each one in a 
strong, crash towel as soon as done and wring the towel as hard 
as possible. Untwist the towel and roll out as carefully as pos- 
sible onto a hot dish. When broken with a fork, these will fall 
into a mass of meal almost like starch, 



122 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Steani them until done, cut in slices one-eighth of an inch 
thick and arrange in a heated dish seasoning each layer. 
Pour over an equal bulk of thin Bechamel sauce and bake in a 
very hot oven till brown. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices and season with salt and 
pepper. Have frying pan hot with just enough dripping to cover 
the bottom. Brown the slices on both sides and keep hot till all 
are fried. These are a delightful garnish for breakfast ham. 

FRIED POTATOES, FRENCH. 

Pare the potatoes and throw into cold water for at least an 
hour. Cut in slices, blocks, strips, balls or any fancy shape, 
and dry them on a towel. Drop quickly into fat hot enough to 
brown them by the time they come to the surface. They are 
done when they float. Skim into a draining basket and set in 
the oven to keep hot. Sprinkle with salt and serve hot, either 
as a garnish or for a vegetable. 

PLANTATION SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut cold cooked sweet potatoes in rather thick slices. Put 
them in a deep dish with pepper, salt and butter, pour on a 
little milk, enough to barely show between the pieces, and bake 
in a moderate oven one hour. 

BOILED SALSIFY. 

Wash, scrape and throw into cold water. Cut into inch 
pieces and boil rapidly uncovered in a granite stew-pan. A little 
vinegar will help to keep it white. Drain them well and serve 
with plenty of butter and lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS 

Are made like parsnip fritters. 



VEGETABLES. 123 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Wipe and cut in halves as many as you need, dip the cut 
side of each half in fine bread crumbs that have been well 
seasoned with pepper, salt and sugar, place them in a buttered 
granite baking-pan, skin side down. Drop bits of butter between 
them and stand over a moderate fire to fry very slowly, 
turning as soon as brown. When they are tender take them up 
carefully with a cake turner and slide them onto a heated 
platter. Draw the baking-pan forward, and when the butter 
is a nice brown, add two tablespoonfuls flour, mix smooth, pour 
in one pint milk or cream, stirring steadily until it boils. Add 
more seasoning if needed and pour around the tomatoes. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Cooking for Invalids. 



QUICKLY MADE BEEF TEA. 

Broil a slice of round steak for one minute on each side. 
Lay on a deep plate and score very closely, cutting only one- 
half the way through. Turn and score the other side at right 
angles with the first. Pour over hot water to half cover the 
meat. Set in a warm place and turn and press with a fork often 
for ten minutes. Squeeze the meat dry, add salt to taste and 
more water if too strong to be agreeable. It must not be allowed 
to get too hot or it will turn gray and be full of coagulated 
albumen. 

BEEF TEA NO. 2. 

Cut three-quarter pound lean beef from the round into thin 
slices; soak for thirty minutes or as much longer as you have 
time, add in one pint of cold soft water, stirring and squeezing 
occasionally. Set over fire and simmer for ten minutes. Strain, 
season with salt and serve hot. 

BEEF TEA NO. 3. 

Cut one pound lean beef in half inch bits, put them into a 
glass jar, set the jar on a stand in a kettle of cold water; bring 
it to a boil and let boil slowly for three to four hours, strain, and 
if there is the least particle of the fat remove it by laying tissue 
paper lightly on the surface. This can be used clear or diluted 
with water to the taste. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut up a fowl and crack the bones. Put into three pints of 
cold water and bring slowly to the boiling point. Simmer closely 
covered for three to four hours, or until the meat all falls apart. 

125 



126 THE STAE CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

Strain it and let cool to remove the fat if you have time, if it is 
needed in a hurry skim off as much as possible and remove the 
last atoms with tissue paper. Salt to taste and for each pint of 
liquor allow one tablespoonful of rice that has been soaked an 
hour in tepid water. Simmer until the rice is perfectly soft, 
about twenty minutes, and send pepper (if allowed) and crisp 
crackers to the invalid with it. 

Young chickens should never be chosen for broth as they 
are much less nutritious and highly flavored than a fowl a year 
or more old. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

This is made in the same way, allowing one quart of cold 
water to each pound of meat and bone. The neck and shoulders 
are the best pieces for broth. 

VEAL BROTH. 

This may be given to a convalescent for a change, but is 
neither as digestible or nourishing as beef. It is much improved 
by cooking in it one tablespoonful Pearl tapioca for each pint of 
broth and adding one-half cupful of cream just before serving. 

BROILED CHOPS, 

A steak or chop for an invalid should be broiled over a fire 
of charcoal, if practicable, as that leaves no flavor of smoke or 
gas on the meat ; where that is not possible the meat should be 
folded in a sheet of well-buttered, glossy writing paper and the 
edges folded together like the edges of a turnover. Lift from 
the fire often lest the paper burn, and allow a few minutes 
longer than when directly over the coals. When done, cut a 
slit in the folded side of paper, and slide the meat and gravy 
together unto a hot plate. 

FILLETS OF FISH. 

These may be broiled in the same way and are much more 
juicy than when broiled in an open grid iron. Spread with a 
little soft butter, sprinkle on lemon juice, chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper and set in oven a few minutes before serving. Dark 



COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 127 

meat and game are generally more easily digested as well as 
more nourishing and should therefore be chosen for invalids 
and convalescents. 

CODFISH IN CREAM. 

Shred one-quarter cupful of salt fish and cover well with 
tepid water, let it stand while making one-half pint of cream 
sauce No. 1 on p. 109, drain the fish carefully, add it to the sauce, 
and as soon it comes to the boiling point serve with baked 
potatoes. 

CODFISH IN .CREAM NO. 2. 

Cut salt fish in one-quarter inch dice, pour boiling water 
over it and let stand for five minutes. Allow one cup of thin 
cream to one-quarter cup of fish, drain the fish, add to the boil- 
ing cream and serve on toast. A speck of cayenne is a great 
improvement. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Roll one-half cup of coarse oat meal until very mealy ; put 
into a large tumbler and fill with water, stir it well, let it settle 
a moment and than pour off all but the bran, repeat until three 
waters have been used. Bring the water to a boil as quickly as 
possible and cook twenty minutes, stirring often, add salt to 
taste and thin with milk, cream or beef tea. 

CORNMEAL GRUEL. 

One quart of water, boiling, one teaspoonful salt, mix two 
tablespoonfuls cornmeal and one tablespoonful of flour with one- 
half cupful of cold water. Pour it into the boiling salted water, 
stirring briskly. Simmer, covered, an hour, strain and serve 
with milk or cream. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

One pint of boiling milk, one tablespoonful of flour, mixed 
smooth with one-half cupful of cold milk and one saltspoon- 
fulof salt, stir into the hot milk and cook in double boiler one- 
half hour. If allowed, a handful of raisins cut in quarters and 
a bit of nutmeg one-half as large as a pea, may be boiled in the 
milk. Strain before serving. 



128 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

BREAD GRUEL. 

One cupful of coarsely grated stale bread, simmered in one 
pint of water till almost dissolved. Strain and salt to taste. The 
addition of beef essence or milk or cream must depend upon 
the patient but it is palatable and nutritious served plain. 

EGG NOG. 

One egg beaten to a cream, one teaspoonful of sugar, speck 
of salt, one-half cup of milk, one tablespoonful of wine. Mix 
in order given and stir well. 

WINE WHEY. 

One cup of new milk heated to boiling point, add one-half 
wine-glass full of good sherry or any wine that is not sweet. 
Boil a minute, strain and use with or without sugar. In cases 
of nausea, pour it into a glass half full of chipped ice, and give 
a teaspoonful at a time with the ice. 

MULLED WINE. 

One pint of sherry, one and a half cups of water set to boil, 
while beating to a cream the yolks of six eggs, with one scant 
cup of sugar, one-quarter nutmeg, grated. 

Whip the whites to a stiff froth and whisk them into the 
yolks, pour on the boiling wine, beating constantly; pour back 
and forth until cool enough to serve. 

KOUMISS. 

Dissolve a third of a one-ounce cake of compressed yeast, 
or its equivalent of fluid yeast in a little warm, not hot water. 
Take a quart of milk fresh from the cow, or warmed to blood 
heat, and add to it one tablespoonful of sugar, and the dissolved 
yeast. Put the mixture in beer bottles with patent stoppers, 
fill to the neck and let stand for twelve hours at a temperature 
of 75 or 80 degrees. Then put the bottles on ice, upside down 
until wanted. Be careful to keep the bottle turned upside down. 



COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 129 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast two slices of bread as brown as possible without burn- 
ing. Break into a pitcher and while hot pour on one quart of 
cold water. It is ready for use in one-half hour. 

PANADA. 

Lay in a bowl one Boston cracker split ; sprinkle on a pinch 
of salt and cover with boiling water. Set the bowl into boiling 
water and let stand until the cracker looks clear, about one-half 
hour. Drain off the water and slide into a hot saucer without 
breaking. Eat with sugar and cream. They are good only 
when very hot and fresh. 

PARCHED RICE. 

Roast to a good brown like coffee, then cook as usual and eat 
with syrup or sugar and cream. 

HERB TEAS. 

For the dried herbs allow one teaspoonful to a cup of boiling 
water. Cover and stand where they will not boil for from 5 to 10 
minutes. Strain before serving. Too long steeping makes them 
bitter or acrid without increasing the medicinal value. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Things Good to Know. 



HOW TO BUTTER AND ROLL BREAD. 

Cut all the crust from a loaf of fresh bread. Cream, with a 
fork, enough butter to make as many rolls as needed. Spread 
thin on one end of the loaf; with a thin sharp knife, cut the 
thinnest possible slice. Roll this slice, buttered side inward and 
lay on a napkin. When the napkin is full, draw it firmly around 
the rolls and pin it in shape, lay in a cold damp place for several 
hours. The rolls will keep their shape without tying. 

HOW TO DISSOLVE GELATINE. 

If gelatine be covered with warm water and set in a warm 
place it will melt in fifteen or twenty minutes, but will develop 
the strong flavor of glue and spoil whatever it is added to. 

A better way is to allow one cup cold water for two ounces 
(one package) of gelatine and let it soak until perfectly soft. 
Cox's make will require two hours, Nelson's or Andrews' will be 
soft in from fifteen to thirty minutes, then add a little boiling 
liquid stirring till all is dissolved, and the rest of the liquid should 
be added cold. Gelatine never dissolves in cold water but only 
absorbs a certain amount. If water is left it can be drained away 
without taking any goodness from the gelatine. 

HOW TO KILL A LOBSTER. 

When a live lobster is required for broiling or other purposes 
run a long, narrow bladed knife into the tail at the third joint 
from the end, slanting the blade downward. This cuts the spinal 
cord and death will quickly follow, but it should be cooked at 
once. 

131 



132 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

TO RELIEVE A BURN. 

Wet with cold water and cover with bi-carbonate of Boda, 
bind a cloth around and keep damp until free from pain. 

IF FAT BOILS OVER. 

Lift off the kettle instantly to stop the supply, open all the 
dampers and covers of the stove to draw the flames and smoke 
into the chimney. If the blazing fat runs over on the floor throw 
on ashes or sand, never water, which only scatters the flame. 
Where much frying is done a box of sand should be kept close 
by the stove. 

Red and black ants may be effectually driven away by using 
Persian Insect Powder, sprinkled wherever they intrude. It is 
perfectly harmless to man or beast and deadly poison to insects. 
To destroy flies and mosquitoes with it, burn it by sprinkling it 
over live coals or by heaping it on a plate and setting it on fire. 

A mixture of one pound of powdered charcoal and four 
pounds plaster of Paris, sprinkled under porches or in damp 
corners, will prove a good disinfectant. 

If a few trays of charcoal are set in a damp cellar where 
milk is kept, there will be no danger of the milk becoming 
tainted. 

If a cellar has its windows closed by day and open at night, 
it will not be damp. 

By placing a dish containing a good-sized lump of unslacked 
lime, in a refrigerator, the moisture will be absorbed, so remov- 
ing all danger from mould. 

White lead will cement broken crockery better than anything 
else. Apply a brush to each edge, press together and set aside 
for a few days. Water has no effect on it. 

A heated knife will cut hot bread without making it soggv. 

Oxalic acid, dissolved in hot water, will clean paint from 
windows. 



THINGS GOOD TO KNOW. 133 

Brooms dipped in boiling suds once a week for a few minutes 
will last much longer than they otherwise would. Paint brushes, 
bristle brooms, camels hair brushes, etc., will not shed their 
bristles if allowed to soak in water and dried slowly. 

Kid shoes may be kept soft and free from cracks if rubbed 
once a week with pure glycerine or castor oil. 

A piece of zinc placed on the coals of a hot stove will clean 
out the stove pipe. 

• Rats detest chloride of lime and coal tar. 

Stone jars that have become unfit for use from any cause can 
be purified by filling with fresh earth and allowing it to remain 
two or three weeks. 

A crash bag wet with ammonia water and drawn over a broom 
enables one to freshen the carpet of the living room every morn- 
ing without dust; it is also very nice to use on any carpet after a 
thorough sweeping to remove the dust that settles. 

Cotton batting is impervious to all life germs. Draw it care- 
fully over a full jar of preserved fruit and it will prevent mould 
and fermentation. 

Vinegar is better than ice for keeping fish. By putting a 
little vinegar on the fish it will keep perfectly well even in hot 
weather. Fish is often improved in flavor under this treatment. 

To bake batter cakes on a common griddle without grease or 
smoke, add a teaspoonful of melted lard to eveiy quart of batter, 
just before you begin to bake. Put your griddle on the stove, 
put some salt on; when it gets hot, rub off well with a piece of 
brown paper. You will have to repeat the salting if, after you 
stop baking, you let the griddle stand on the stove. 

HOW TO KEEP SUET. 

Select the nicest looking suet, as free as possible from veins 
or spots; have your pot just near enough to the fire to melt the 
suet very gradually ; pour it into a vessel of very cold clear 
water as soon as it is melted, it will soon grow quite firm, wipe 



134 THE STAR CRYSTAL COOK BOOK. 

all dampness from it, cover it with the waxed paper used by 
confectioners, if it can possibly be got, otherwise use any white 
paper. Envelop it in linen, and keep dry and cool. S. 

POLISH FOR HARDWOOD FLOORS AND 

FURNITURE. 

One quarter pound beeswax, 1 ounce castile soap, turpen- 
tine to soften. Shave the soap very fine and dissolve in turpen- 
tine. Insert a tin with wax and some turpentine in a vessel of 
boiling water, and keep adding turpentine until well dissolved. 
Allow plenty of time. Fully a quart of turpentine will be 
needed. Make of consistency of soft jelly, adding at the last 
one tablespoonful sweet oil. Apply a very little at a time, with 
canton flannel, and polish with a soft cloth. 

TO PROTECT A STOVE FROM RUST WHEN 

STORED. 

One-half gallon benzine, three-fourths pound pulverized 
rosin. 

TO KEEP STOCKINGS FROM FADING. 

Let them soak in hot salt water until water is cold. Thor- 
oughly rinse. 

TO CLEAN CARPET. 

One bar of white ivory soap, cut in fine shavings and boil in 
one gallon of water until melted. Add four ounces of borax, 
four ounces of sal soda. Stir 5 minutes, and add four gallons of 
cold soft water and one -half pint of alcohol. 

FURNITURE POLISH NO. 1. 

One-third linseed oil, one-third turpentine, one-third 
vinegar. Rub on with flannel, polish with either flannel or 
chamois. First wash the article with strong castile suds. 

FURNITURE POLISH NO. 2. 

Take equal parts of sweet oil and vinegar, mix, add one 
pint of gum arabic, finely powdered. This will make furniture 



THINGS GOOD TO KNOW. 135 

look almost as good as new, and can be easily applied, as it 
requires no rubbing. The bottle should be shaken and the 
polish poured on a rag and applied to the furniture. S. 

TO CLEAN WALL PAPER. 

Equal parts of soft water and ammonia, thickened with rye 
flour till stiff as putty. Make into a ball and rub over any wall 
paper, except velvet surfaces. 

RECEIPT FOR SILVER WASH. 

One ounce of nitric acid, one ten cent piece and one ounce 
of quick silver, put in an open glass vessel and let it stand until 
dissolved, then add one pint of water and it is ready for use ; 
make it into a powder by adding whiting and it may be used on 
brass, copper, german silver, etc. 8. 

WASHING FLUID. 

One pound of sal soda, one pound of unslacked lime, four 
quarts soft water. Boil all together in any kettle but an iron 
one ; when cold and clear, pour off and put in a stone jug. Put 
one-half cup in water and rub the clothes on the soiled places. 
Soap well ; put into your boiler one cup of the mixture with 
sufficient cold water to cover the clothes, boil ten or fifteen 
minutes, rinse thoroughly, rubbing them if necessary. 

In case of sickness the bedding can be thrown into the 
boiler into which the mixture has been put, having the water 
boiling hot, taking care to wet them in cold water first, 



Consider: 

That you cannot buy silk at the price of cotton. 

That gold dollars cannot be had for sixty cents. 

That diamonds are worth more than paste. 

That cheap goods are the most costly in the end. 

That impure ingredients produce poor results. 

That pure ingredients produce good results. 

That the best is always the cheapest. 

That cream tartar is worth more than alum. 

That Flint's Star Crystal Baking Powder is absolutely pure. 

That it does not contain either alum or ammonia. 

That it is a straight cream tartar powder. 

That it is of full value in itself and requires no gift enter- 
prises to help sell it. 

When you are buying baking powder buy it, when you 
want trinkets buy them, they will not help your cooking. 

Every article put up by me and branded pure is strict// 
'pure, and so guaranteed. By using my pure coffees and 
spices you get the best, and therefore make no mistake. 

J. G. FLINT. 



136 



