«s 



<j= 



TX 715 
. B262 

Copy 1 ^"•*S^**ftti^fti^i!l^i*ftft* 

h 
i» 
it^ 
i» 
i» 



pOOKING ^ 

^ QCHOOL I 

PECIFES. 



i» 



I PPECIPES. I 



4= 11 



i» 



Si P 



Ji COMPILED BY iS» 

4 ii 



MISS AMY BARNES, 



4= 

<i 

<^ » 

*= FOB i» 

ji i5 

4 Minneapolis and St. Paul Classes. It 

4i ;» 

S 15 






MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
ALFRED ROPER, PRINTER, 305 HENNEPIN AVE. 



T X 

»^i.rni;.i.i nur-cn, rninitK, aUO HENNEPIN AVE. 5^ 

7*5 '°'° R 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

-fv' ■- 
®^3p.-L.:: §apin0 Ifn. 

Shelf,.B.^.*b Z 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



COOKING SCHOOL RECIPES. 



COMPILED E_" 






r 



'^2-7 



(^^ 



MISS BARNES, 



FOR 



Minneapolis and St. Paul Classes. 



MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 

ALFRED ROPER, PRINTER, 305 HENNEPIN AVE. 

18 9 0. 




/ 



Copyrighted 1890, 

BY 

Miss Amy Barnes. 






^ 

V 



"To be a good cook means the knowledge of all fruits, herbs, 
balms and spices ; and of all that is healing and sweet in fields 
and groves, savory in meats. It means carefulness, inventive- 
ness, watchfulness, willingness and readiness of appliance. It 
means the economy of your great grandmother and the science 
of modern chemists ; it means much tasting and no wasting ; it 
means English thoroughness, French art and Arabian hospitality ; 
it means, in fine, that you are to be perfectly and always ladies, 
(loaf givers), and you are to see that everybody has something 
nice to eaf'—Ruskin. 



ABBREVIATIONS. 



Tbsp. stands for Tablespoonf ul. m. stands for minute, 

tsp. " " teaspoonful. h. " " hour. 

" " saltspoonful. qt. " " quart. 

" " cupful. pt. " " pint. 



ssp 
c. 



TABLE. 



4 saltspoonfuls = 1 teaspoonful. 

3 teaspoonf uls = 1 tablespoonful. 
8 tablespoonfuls = 1 gill. 

2 gills = 1 cup. 
2 cups. = 1 pint. 
2 pints. = 1 quart. 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASUKES. 

4 cupfuls of flour = 1 pound. 

2 " solid buttor = 1 pound. 

2 " granulated sugar = 1 pound. 

3 " meal - 1 pound. 

1 pint of milk or water — 1 pound. 
1 " chopped meat, packed tightly = I pound. 
10 medium eggs, 9 large eggs = 1 pound. 
1 round tablespoonful of butter = 1 ounce. 
1 hp. tablespoonful of sugar = 1 ounce. 
1 tablespoonful of liquid = ^ ounce. 
1 small bottle of Burnett's Extra = 12 teaspoonfule. 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid = 1 wineglass or 34 cup. 
1 speck = 1^ of teaspoonful or % saltspoonful. 



INTRODUCTION. 



Food is that which nourishes the body. 

Cooking is the preparation of food by the aid of 
heat. 

We cook our food to make it more digestable and 
more palatable. 

Measuring. 

The following rules are given as helps in measu- 
ering exactly: 

The salt, teaspoon and tablespoons used in these 
recipes, are the size of the silver spoons now in 
general use. By reference to the table the 
relative size will be quickly seen. A spoonful of 
any kind of seasoning, spice, soda, cream of 
tartar, salt, etc., is measured by taking up a spoonful 
lightly, and leveling it with a knife. Flour, 
sugar, butter, meal, baking powder, etc., are 
measured rounding. 

A rounding spoonful is measured by taking a 
spoonful of the material, and lightly shaking till 
the material is as convex on the top as the spoon 
is concave. 



6 INTRODUCTION. 

One-half a spoonful is one divided lengthwise 
of the spoon. 

One-fourth, one-half of that, etc. 

A speck is 3^ of a teaspoonful. 

Cupfuls and fractions of cupfuls should alwaj^'S 
be measured exactly level. 

Flour should be sifted before measuring. 

Butter always packed down tightly in measur- 
ing. 

A spoonful of melted butter is measured after 
melting. 

A spoonful of butter melted is measured before 
melting. 

The beaded tin-measuring cups make the 
measuring much easier and more exact. 

Mixing. 

There are three kinds of mixing — stirring, beat- 
ing and folding. 

We stir when we wish to blend two or more 
ingredients, as butter and sugar for cake; flour 
and milk in a batter, etc. To stir, keep the spoon 
in the mixture, resting the tip of the spoon on the 
bottom of the bowl, move the spoon in circles, and 
at the same time mash the mixture with the back 
of the spoon on the sides of the bowl. 

We beat to entangle air in the mixture, as in 
eggs, or a batter. To beat a mixture, tip the bowl 
slightly, move the spoon in circles, so that the 



INTRODUCTION 7 

edge of the spoon scrapes the sides of the bowl ; 
with a long, quick flop, bring the spoon up through 
the mixture into the air, and down again into the 
mixture on the opposite side. 

"We/oZd to avoid breaking the air cells, as when 
beaten whites of eggs or whipped cream are to be 
mixed with other material. To fold, turn the mix- 
ture over with the spoon, cut through, lifting the 
part from below up and over, fold gently, and not 
stir round and round. 

Simmering is cooking in a liquid at the sim- 
mering point. That of water is 180°, F. Meats 
cooked in water, when the juice is desired in the 
meat, should be put into boiling water for a 
few minutes, this hardens the albumen on the 
entire surface, and forms a coating, through which 
the juice cannot escape. After this has been done, 
place the water where it will simmer till the meat 
is tender. Eggs should always be simmered, when 
cooked in water. 

Boiling is cooking in a liquid at the boiling 
point. Water boils at 212°, F.; milk at 196°, F. 
Boiling water softens the woody fiber of vege- 
tables, breaks the starch cells and cooks the starch. 
So we boil all vegetables and cereals when cooked 
in a liquid, and always cook them at a temperature 
equal to that of boiling water. 

Baking is cooking by dry heat, as in an oven. 
The heat of the oven varies from a cool oven, 



8 INTRODUCTION. 

which would be 150°, F., to a hot oven, which 
reaches 400°, F. 

Here are a few simple tests for telling the heat 
of the oven. 

Put a piece of white paper into the oven, and 
note the number of minutes it takes it to become 
colored. 

For sponge cake, and pound cake, the paper 
should become light yellow in five minutes, for cup 
cake, the paper should become dark yellow, for 
bread and pastry, the paper should become dark 
brown. 

Muffins made with eggs, and baking-powder, the 
paper should become dark brown in four minutes. 

For water gems, and baking-powder biscuit, the 
paper should become dark brown in one minute. 

When meat cannot be cooked directly exposed 
to the fire, as in a tin kitchen, or in a gas stove, 
which is true roasUng, put it into a hot oven at 
first, then reduce the heat a little. Baste often, and 
have the ventilator of the oven open. 

Broiling is cooking with the article directly ex- 
posed to a hot fire. The fire should be bright and 
clear, and, if a coal fire, the drafts should all be 
open. The success of broiling consists in constant 
turning. A general rule is to turn every ten 
seconds. A double broiler is the most convenient 
utensil for broiling. 

Frying is cooking by immersion in hot fat. 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

Cottolene is the best fat for frying, next lard, or 
lard and drippings. 

For potatoes or oysters, the fat should be hot 
enough to brown a small piece of bread the size of a 
crouton in 30 seconds, or at 400°, F. 

For croquettes and all breaded articles, 380°, F 
or hot enough to brown the bread in 40 seconds. 

For fritters, etc., 350°, F., or hot enough to 
brown the bread in 60 seconds. 

Never use the fat unless fully heated. Drain 
all articles after frying on coarse brown paper. 

Use a frying kettle and a basket for all small 
articles. 

Avoid an accident when using fat by moving it 
always with caution, and being careful not to spill 
it on the stove. Strain always after using. 



SOUPS. 



Soups may be divided into two classes; those 
made with stock and those made without. As 
stock forms the foundation of many soups and 
sauces, the process of making should be thoroughly 
understood. 

General Directions for Making Soup Stock. 

The meats used in making soup stock should 
contain gelatine, osmazome and fat. 

Gelatine is found in bones, gristly portions of 
flesh and skin. It is not especially nutritious, has 
little flavor, but causes the stock to become a jelly 
when cold. 

Osmazome gives to every kind of meat its dis- 
tinctive flavor, and is found in the lean of beef, 
mutton, and fowls. We find more osmazome in the 
flesh of old animals than young, and most in the 
brown meats. 

Fat should be used only in small quantities in 
soup stock. Much fat spoils the delicate flavors of 
the soup. 

The marrow of the shin bone is the best fat to 

10 



SOUPS. 11 

use. The browned fat of roast beef gives a fine 
flavor, but mutton, liam and turkey fat should be 
avoided. 

Cuts of meed for soup sioch Select a piece 
from shin, shank, or lower part of the round from 
beef or veal; from the fore-quarter and neck of 
mutton. Fowls are better than chickens. 

Use any kind of cooked meat, one, or several 
kinds mixed, avoiding much ham. The greater 
the number of kinds used, the finer will be the 
flavor. 

Eemove any burnt or tainted portions, and the 
greater part of the fat. 

Use a soup digester for making soup stock. This 
is a porcelain-lined, iron kettle, with a tight-fitting 
cover. If this is used, the liquor will evaporate 
but little and the fine flavor is retained. 

The next best thing to a soup digester is a gran- 
ite ware kettle with a tight-fitting cover. 

To prepare ilie siock. If raw meat is used wipe 
it with a wet cloth; cut it into small pieces. Saw 
the bones into small pieces. 

Put the fat in the bottom of the kettle, then th© 
bones and the meat on top. 

Add one quart of cold water to one pound of meat 
and bones, one and one-half pints of water, if 
wholly cooked meat is used. 

Kemember that cold water draws out the juice 
of the meat, while hoi water hardens the albumen 



12 SOUPS. 

on til© outside and prevents the juice from coming 
out. 

'Let the stock stand on the back of the rang© for 
an hour, to draw out the juices of the meat. When 
the water becomes quite red move the kettle to- 
ward the hotter part of the store, and bring the 
water slowly to the boiling point. Then set it 
where it will simmer for six or eight hours. 

Cooking at a high temperature will dissolve the 
lime in the bones and cloudy the soup. To extract 
the greatest amount of nutriment from the meat it 
must cook slowly and evenly. 

"A soup fast boiled 
Is a soup half spoiled," 

Vegetables, herbs and spices, improve the stock. 
Use in the following proportions: 

To every quart of water use one tablespoonf ul of 
carrot, turnip, celery and onion, a sprig of thyme, 
summer savory, sweet marjoram and parsley, one 
leaf sage and bay leaf, or one teaspooful of the mixed 
herbs, one small bit of celery root or saltspoonful 
celery seed, two peppercorns, two allspice berries, 
two whole cloves, one teaspoonful of salt. 

Cut the vegetables, after washing and paring, 
into small cubes. 

Use always the whole herbs and spices, never 
the ground. 

To get a dark broivn, richly colored stock, re- 
serve a portion of the meat, dredge it with flour 



SOUPS. 13 

and brown in a portion of the fat or a little butter, 
before adding it to the water. 

Frying the vegetables in the fat, till brown, hui 
not black, improves the flavor of the stock. 

A tablespoonful oi caramel will improve the 
color, or use Madame Perrin's Pate Frangaise. 

When the soup stock has cooked, strain through 
a fine strainer into an earthen bowl or jar. 

Let it cool quickly, and it will keep longer. 

In summer time it is best not to cook the veget- 
ables with the stock as it will sour more quickly. 

When the stock is cold there will be three por- 
tortions ; the sediment at the bottom, then a clear 
jelly if there has been sufficient gelatine in the 
meat, and the fat on the top. Remove the fat 
carefully and use for drippings. The jelly is for 
clear soups and sauces. The sediment for brown 
soups and sauces, or vegetable soups. 

To Clear Soups. 

If for any reason the stock is not as clear as is 
desired, use for every four quarts of soup stock, the 
whites of two eggs. Beat the eggs and stir into the 
stock. Bring it slowly to a boil and then set it 
back immediately where it will only simmer for 
one half an hour. 

Then strain through a napkin, or jelly-bag. 

Great care should be used to prevent a rapid 
boiling, as it is impossible to clear a soup that has 



14 SOUPS. 

been made cloudy by rapid boiling at this time. 
Soup stock will keep a week or sometimes long- 
er in winter; two or three days in summer. 

Soup stock will keep longer when the fat re- 
mains over the top, excluding the air. 

By scalding the stock every two or three days it 
can be kept for a much longer time. 

To remove small particles of fat from a jelly 
stock, which would make it cloudy, pass a napkin 
wet in hot water, over the top. The heat will melt 
the fat, and the cloth quickly absorb it. 

To remove fat from a soup when hot, pass strips 
of porous brown paper over the surface White 
stock is made from chicken or veal. 

Thickening foe Soups. 

If a soup is desired thick, but clear, use arrow 
root, corn starch, or "Tapioca Exotique." 

Of arrowroot use one tablespoonful mixed with 
one cupful of cold stock till smooth, then stir into 
one quart boiling stock and cook one half hour. 

Use corn starch in the same way, but this will 
always give a little cloudiness to the soup. 

Use one tablespoonful of "Tapioca Exotique" 
sprinkled into one quart boiling stock, for a clear 
gelatinous soup, and cook one half hour. In this the 
grains will always be perceptible, but it is very nice 
for a thick or clear soup. 

For white and cream soups, rice, bread, barley, 



SOUPS. 15 

flour, corn starch, arrowroot, and "Tapioca Exot- 
ique" are used. 

For a hroivn thick soup the flour is first browned 
in a dry pan, or browned with an equal volume of 
hot butter. 

In either way the flour should be stirred con- 
stantly to prevent scorching. 

The dry browned flour may always be kept on 
hand. 

Bouillon. 

Clear beef from round, 5 lbs. Cinnamon, 1 inch stick. 

Cold water, 2 quarts. Salt, Wi teaspoonfuls. 

Onion, 2 tablespoonfuls. Parsley, 1 sprig. 

Turnip, 2 " Thyme, 1 sprig. 

Celery, 2 " Summer Savory, 1 sprig. 

Whites of Eggs, 2. Bay leaf, 1. 

Peppercorns, 12. Sage leaf, 1. 
Whole cloves, 4. 

• 

Remove the fat from the meat, and cut the meat 
into small pieces. Reserve one fourth of the meat 
and put the remainder into the soup kettle with 
the cold water, let it stand on the back of the stove 
for an hour, then bring it sloivly to a boil, and set 
it back where it will simmer for six hours. A 
slight bubbling on one side of the kettle will be 
sufficient. 

At the end of that time add the vegetables, 
herbs and spices, and cook an hour longer. When 
this time has passed, strain, and set away to cool. 
In the morning remove the fat, and put the stock 



16 SOUPS. 

into the soup kettle, add the reserved raw beef, 
chopped yery fine, and the whites of eggs beaten. 
Place on the stove and heat slowly, stirring occa- 
sioaally. When it begins to boil, remove to a 
place where it will keep just below the boiling 
point for one hour, then add more salt and pepper, 
if needed and strain through a napkin. 

Use one half box of gelatine soaked in one cupful 
of cold water, if more body is desired. Add with 
the whites of eggs. 

Serve in soup plates if for dinner, or in cups if 
for luncheon or evening parties. 

Consomme 

Beef shank or lower part of round Par8lej% 1 sprig. 

4 lbs. Thyme, 2 sprigs. 

Shin of veal, 4 lbs. Summer savory, 2 sprigs, 

Fowl, 5 lbs. ' Bay leaves, 3. 

Cold water, 6 quarts. Sage leaves, 2. 

Onion, 1 large. Peppercorns, 40. 

Chopped carrots, 4 tablespoonfuls Cloves, 6. 

Chopped Turnip, 4 '' Cinnamon, 3 inch sticks. 

Chopped celery, 4 " Mace, 1 blade. 

Salt, 2 " Allspice berries, 10. 

Butter, 4 *' Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Wipe the meat and cut into small pieces, reserv- 
ing one-fourth of the beef. Saw the bones into 
small pieces. 

Put a small quantity of the fat into the soup 
kettle, and then the bones, and the meat on top. 
Add the water, and let the kettle stand on the 
back of the stove for one hour. Wash and pare 



SOUPS. 17 

the vegetables and cut into small cubes, fry- 
in the butter till light brown, then add to the stock. 
Dredge the reserved beef with flour and brown it 
in the remaining butter, and then add to the stock. 
Simmer tw^o houl'S then add the fowl, which has been 
cleaned thoroughly. Simmer till the fowl is ten- 
der, then remove it. It will have imparted a good 
flavor to the stock. When the stock has simmered 
six or eight hours, strain through a fine strainer, 
and put it where it will cool quickly. In the 
morning it will be a jelly. Remove every particle 
of fat, put the jelly into a sauce pan, add th© 
whites of eggs, beaten light, heat slowly to the 
boiling point, then keep it just below that for 
one half an hour. Then it should be clear, with the 
whites of eggs cooked in one dry stiff mass. Add 
salt and pepper if needed. Strain through a nap- 
kin. Serve clear, or it may be garnished. 

Consomme with Macaroni. 

Consomme, 1 quart. Salt,l teaspoonful. 

Macaroni, 3 sticks. Boiling water, 1 quart. 

Boil the maccaroni in the water with the salt for 
half an hoar. Then drain, and pour several quarts 
of cold water over it. Place on a board, and cut in- 
to one incli to one-eighth inch pieces. Bring the 
consomme to a boil, add the maccaroni, and when 
hot, serve. Vermicelli, rice, barley, and French 
paste may be used in the same way. Use one 



18 SOUPS. 

tablespoonfnl of rice or barley to one quart of 
stock. Boil rice half hour; vermicelli, or French 
paste, ten minutes; barley, five hours. 

Consomme with Green Peas. 

Consomme. 3 pints. Boiling water, 2 qnarts. 

Fresh green peas, or Salt, 1 teaspoonf ul. 

French canned peas, 1 capful. 

Boil the fresh peas in the water with the salt 
for twenty minutes, or till tender, drain and add to 
the consomme. Boil gently five minutes. If French 
peas are used drain, and pour cold water over 
them, then proceed as for fresh peas. 

Consomme with Asparagus. 

Asparagus tops, M pint. Boiling water, 1 quart. 

Consomme, 1 quart. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Use the delicate asparagus tops, and boil in the 
water with the salt for fifteen minutes. Drain, and 
put into a sauce pan with the consomme. Boil 
gently five minutes and serve. 

Consomme a la Koyale. 

Consomme, 1 quart. Salt, }i teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 2. Milk, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Beat the eggs till smooth, add salt and milk. 
Turn into a buttered cup. Set the cup into a pan 
of warm water, and bake in a slow oven. When a 



SOUPS. 19 

knife, put down through the center will come out 
dry, it is done. Set away to cool. When cold, 
cut into thin slices and then cut into pretty shapes 
with vegetable cutters. Put them into the soup tu- 
reen and pour the hot soup over it. 

Julienne Soup. 

Clear stock, 2 quarts. Lettuce, finely shredded, 1 pint. 

Turnips, carrots and celery, mixed Sorrel Vs. cupful. 
1 pint. 

Cut the vegetables into fine strips, one inch long. 
Shred the lettuce and sorrel very fine. Cook the 
vegetables in boiling, salted water till tender, and 
drain. It will take one half hour. Put the lettuce 
with one cupful of boiling water iiito a sauce pan, 
boil ten minutes, and drain. Wash the sorrel and 
cover with cold water. Bring the stock to a boil, 
add vegetables, lettuce and sorrel, and more salt 
and pepper if needed, boil gently fifteen minutes 
and serve. 

Other kinds of vegetables may be substituted in 
varying quantities, green peas, cauliflower, onions, 
etc. 

Scotch Broth. 

Neck of mutton, 2 ibs. Cold water, 2 quarts. 

Carrots, turnips, onions and eel- Flour, 1 tablespoonful. 

ery, mixed, 1 cupful. Batter, 1 " 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful. Salt, 2 teaspoonf nls. 

Pearl barley, 1 cupful. Pepper, 2 saltspoonfuls. 

Cut the meat into small pieces and remov* the 



20 SOUPS. 

fat. Cut the vegetables into one-fourth inch cubes. 
Chop the parsley fine. Soak the barley over night. 
Put the meat into a sauce pan, add vegetables, 
barley, three pints of water, salt and pepper. Put 
the bones into another sauce pan and add one pint 
of water. Simmer both mixtures three hours. Then 
cook the butter and flour together till smooth and 
frothy, add some of the soup till thin enough to 
pour, then turn into the soup, add the liquor 
in which the bones wer© cooked, and the parsley, 
and serve. 

The success of this soup depends upon the long, 
slow cooking, and upon the vegetables and meat 
being in small pieces. Then it is very nice. 

Impekial Soup. 

Chicken Stock, 1 quart. Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Cream, 1 pint. Salt, VA teaspoonfuls. 

Stale bread, I/2 pint. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Breast of fowl, Ya. Clove. 1. 

Yolks of eggs, 4. Parslej', 1 sprig. 

Carrot, 1 tablespoonful. Thyme, 1 sprig. 

Onion, 1 " Cinnamon, 1 inch stick. 

Celery, 1 " Mace, 1 blade. 

Flour, 1 

Clean a fowl and cover with three quarts cold wa- 
ter. Simmer two or three hours, till tender. Re- 
move the fowl and reduce the stock to three pints. 
Strain and set away to cool. When cold, remove 
the fat, put the quart of stock into a sauce pan with 
the bread free from crust. Simmer one hour. Put 



SOUPS. 21 

the vegetables, cut fine, with the butter, into a fry- 
ing pan, cook slowly twenty minutes, being careful 
not to burn them. Then skim out the vegetables 
and put them into a musjin bag with the herbs and 
spice. This is to keep them from coloring the 
soup. Cook with the stock for the remainder of the 
hour. 

Add the flour to the butter remaining in the pan, 
cook till smooth and frothy, and then add to the 
soup. Add the salt and pepper. Then chop the 
breast of the fowl very fine and then pound to a 
powder. At the end of the hour remove the bag 
of vegetables from the soup, put in the powdered 
chicken, add one a half cupfuls of the cream, and 
when hot strain through a puree strainer, then a 
French fine sieve. 

Eeturn to the fire in a double boiler. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs, add the remaining one half cupful 
of cream, and when the soup is hot, turn it in, stirr- 
ing as you do so. Cook one minute, or till the egg 
stiffens. Add more salt and pepper if needed, and 
serve. 

White Soup. 

Chicken or veal stock, 1 quart. Corn starch, 1 tables poonful. 

Rice, 2 tablespoonfuls. Butter, 1 " 

Celery, 2 stalks. Cream, 1 pint, or 

Blade of mace, 1. Milk and cream, 1 pint. 

Stick cinnamon, 1 inch. Hard cooked eggs, 2. 

Peppercorns, 6. Salt, IVz teaspoonfuls. 
Onion, 1 tablespoonful. , Pepper, 1 ealtspoonful. 



22 SOUPS. 

Wash the rice through three waters. Put it in a 
sauce pan with the stock, add the celery, onion, 
spice, salt and pepper. Boil slowly till the rice 
has become very soft, one hour or more. Then cook 
the butter and corn starch together till smooth 
and frothy, and add to the soup. Scald the cream 
and add that. Strain through a fine f rench sieve, 
and return to the stove in the double boiler. 
When hot turn into the tureen and add the yolks 
of the eggs mashed through a fine sieve. 

Puree of Salmon. 

Salmon, M of a lb. can. Salt, IV2 teaspoonfule. 

Milk. 1 quart. Pepper, 4 saltspoonful. 

Onion, M. Parsley, 1 sprig. 

Batter, 1 tablespoonful. Cayenne pepper, % ealtspoonfol. 

Flour, 1 

Be move all bones and skin from the salmon and 
chop it fine. Cook the milk, parsley and onion ten 
minutes in th© double boiler. Then cook the butter 
and flour together till smooth and frothy, and add 
to it a little at a time the milk from the double boiler. 
Beturn all to the double boiler, add the salmon and 
seasoning, cook five minutes, and strain through a 
puree strainer. 

Cream of Cod Soup. 

Make like the preceding recipe, only substitute 
one cup of cooked cod, or any white fish, finely 
flaked. 



SOUPS. 23 

Gkeen Turtle Soup 

Green turtle, 1 can. Thyme, 2 sprigs. 

Water, 1 quart. Bay leaves, 2. 

Peppercorns, 12. Sage leaves, 2. 

Whole Cloves, 6. Onion, 1. 

Parsley, 2 sprigs. Carrot, 1 tablespoonful. 

Summer savory, 2 sprigs. Turnip, 1 " 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. Celery, 1 stalk. 

Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Lemon, 1 tablespoonful. Flour, 2 " 

Sweet marjoram, 2 sprigs. 

The green turtle is boiled and put up in cans, 
for making soup. This is the best thing to use 
for those havino- small families. 

Remove the fat from the meat and cut it into 
small cubes. 

Add the water to the turtle and the whole 
spices. Fry the vegetables, cut in small cubes, in 
the butter, fifteen minutes. Then skim out the veg- 
etables and add to the soup. Add the flour to the 
butter remaining in the pan, and cook till brown, 
then the soup till thin, and return to sauce pan 
with the meat, add salt and pepper, and simmer one 
hour. At the end of that time, strain. Cut the 
lemon into very thin slices. Put them into the 
soup tureen and pour the soup over them. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

Milk, 1 quart. Corn starch, 1 tablespoonfnl. 

Tomatoes, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Onion, H. Pepper, V^ saltspoonful. 

Butter, Vi cupful. Soda, 1 



24 SOUPS. 

Cook the onions with the tomatoes, ten minutes, 
and strain. Scald the milk. Cook the starch with 
one tablespoonful of the butter till smooth and 
frothy and then add the milk, gradually. 

Eeturn to the double boiler and add the season- 
ing. Just before serving, if the tomatoes are 
rather acid, add the soda, and then add the toma- 
toes to the thickened milk, strain and serve, with 
croutons or crisped crackers. 

Tomato Soup. 

• 

Tomatoes, 1 quart. Whole Cloves, 2. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoonf uJ. 

Flour, 2 tablespoonf nls. Sugar, V% teaspoonful. 

Butter, 2 " Onion, H- 

Peppercorns, 2. Parsley, 1 sprig. 

Boil the tomatoes, water, and seasoning for ten 
minutes. Then cook the butter and flour together 
till smooth and frothy, add the soup gradually. 
Mash through a fine sieve, all but the seasoning 
and vegetables. Serve with croutons or crisped 
crackers. 

CoEN Soup. 

Can of Corn, 1. Salt, VA teaspoonfuls. 

Milk, IH quarts. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Buttter, 3 tablespoonfuls. Onion, 1 tablespoonful. 

Flour, 2 " Yolks of Eggs, 2. 

Mash the corn in a chopping tray, then put it 
into the double boiler with one quart milk, and 



SOUPS. 25 

cook fifteen minutes. Fry the onion in the butter 
for ten minutes, or till bright yellow. Add th@ 
flour, and cook till smooth and frothy, then add 
some of the soup gradually, till thin enough to 
pour, then return all to the double boiler, and add 
the salt and pepper and cook ten minutes longer. 
Strain through a fine puree strainer. Heturned 
to the double boiler, beat the yolks of the eggs, 
add the remaining one cup of milk, and add to the 
soup. Cook till the egg stiffens, about five minutes, 
and serve. 

If fresh corn is used, cut each ear of corn, and 
then scrape, thus removing the pulp and leave th© 
hull on the cobb. Boil the cobbs ten minutes in one 
pint of water, and use this in place of one pint of 
milk. There should be corn pulp enoagh to make 
one pint. Old corn is better than young, which has 
only a milky juice. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Fresh Peas, 1 quart, or Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Canned " lean. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Stock or water, 1 pint. Butter, 1 tablespoonf ul. 

Milk, 1 cup. Flour, 1 tableapoonful. 

Cream, 1 cup. Onion, 1 small. 

When fresh peas are used, put them in one pint 
boiling water, and boil with the onion till they 
will mash easily. Then add the one pint of stock 
or water. 

If canned peas are used, add this at first and 



26 SOUPS. 

cook till they will mash easily. When soft, cook 
the butter and flour together till smooth and 
frothy, add the soup to it gradually, and return to 
the saucepan. Add the milk, cream, salt and 
pepper. Strain through a fine puree strainer, 
mashing all the pulp through. Heat again, being 
careful not to burn it, and serve. Old, hard peas 
may be used, but must be cooked till soft. A cup- 
ful of whipped cream added after the soup goes 
into the tureen is a pleasing addition. 

Potato Soup. 

Potatoes, 6. Flour, i4 tcablespoonful 

Milk, 1 quart. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Celery, 1 stalk. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Onion, 1 small. Celery salt, li teaspoonful. 
Butter, 1 tablespoonfal. 

"Wash, pare and soak the potatoes in cold water 
^ hour or longer time, if they are old. Cover them 
with boiling water and boil thirty minutes. Drain 
off all the water. In the meantime cook the milk, 
celery and onion in the double boiler ten minutes. 
Mash the potatoes till fine and light, then add the 
milk gradually, stirring all the while. 

Strain through a fine sieve. Return to the 
double boiler. Cook the butter and flour together 
till smooth and frothy, and add the soup gradually. 
Then add the seasoning, and if you like, one tea- 
spoonful chopped parsley. 



FISH. 



Swedish White Fish. 

Fish, 2 or 3 lbs. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful. 

Milk, 1 pint. Salt, 1 saltspoonful. 

Crackers, 3. Nutmeg,! " 

Eggs, 2. Pepper,! " 
Butter, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

Use cod, haddock, white fish or halibut. 

Beat the eggs and add to them the milk, season- 
ing, and the crackers, broken into small pieces. 
While the crackers are soaking, clean, skin and 
bone the fish. Butter a tin sheet with one table- 
spoonful of the butter, and put it into the drip- 
ping pan. Lay one of the pieces of fish on it. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Then add some of 
the crackers and custard. Cover with the remain- 
ing piece of fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Pour the remainder of the custard and crackers 
over the top. Add the second spoonful of butter. 
Bake f ortyfive minutes. As soon as the custard stif- 
fens, take it from the bottom of the pan and i^our it 
over the fish. And so continue till all is on the fish. 
Then put the third spoonful of butter over the 
top and baste with it till the whole is golden 

27 



28 FISH. 

brown. Serve with Hollandaise sauce, garnish 
with parsley. 

Haddock Stuffed with Oystees. 

Fifeh, 2 or 3 lbs. Bread crumbs, V2 cup. 

Oysters, 1 pint. Cracker crumbs, V2 cup. 

Melted butter, Vz cup. Salt, Iteaspoonful. 

Eggs, 1. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Haddock, cod, halibut or white fish may be used 
for this dish. 

Clean, skin and bone the fish. Butter a tin 
sheet, and place one half the fish upon it. Sprink- 
le with salt and pepper. Wash the oysters in 
their own liquor, free from shells, and drain. Dip 
the oysters into the butter and then roll in the 
cracker crumbs. Cover the fish with them, and 
lay the remaining piece of fish on top. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush with egg. Moisten 
the bread crumbs with the remainder of the butter 
and spread over the top. Fasten the fish in place 
with small wooden skew^ers (tooth i^icks will do). 
Bake from thirty to forty-five minutes, or till the 
fish is so tender that a skewer will pierce it easily. 
Serve with Hollandaise sauce and garnish with 
parsley. 

EscALOPED Fish. 

Fish, 1 quart. Pepper, Yz teaspoonful. 

Milk, 1 pint. Onion, 14. 

Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. Parsley, 1 sprig. 

Flour, 2 •' Bread crumbs, V2 cup. 

Salt, 2 teaspoonfuls. ' Butter, 1 tablespoonfnl. 



FISH. 29 

Put the fish in boiling water with one tablespoon- 
ful of salt. Simmer twenty minutes. Take up and 
drain. Bemove skin and bones and measure about 
one quart of it. Flake it quite fine with a fork. 

Cook the milk with the onion and parsley ten 
minutes. Cook the butter and flour till smooth 
and frothy, then gradually add the milk. Remove 
the onion and parsley. Put one teaspoonful of salt 
and one saltspoonful pepper into the sauce and mix 
remainder with the fish. Butter an escaloped dish 
and put in a layer of sauce, then a layer of fish, 
and so continue till the dish is full. Melt one spoon- 
ful of butter, add the crumbs, and put over the 
top. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Dropped Fish Balls. 

Salt fish, 1 pint. Eggs, 2. 

Pared potatoes, 1 quart. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Butter, 1 tableepoonful. Salt, if needed. 

Wash, pare and soak the potatoes as for boiled 
potatoes. Shred the fish. Put the potatoes into a 
sauce pan, with the fish on top. Cover with boil- 
ing water. Boil 30 minutes, or till the potatoes 
are tender, then drain till fully dry and shake on 
the stove till floury. Mash, and add the butter, 
salt, pepper and the egg well beaten. Beat till 
smooth and light. To fry them, dip a tablespoon 
into the kettle of hot fat, take a spoonful of the 
mixture, smooth it with a knife, and then slide it 



30 FISH. 

into the fat. It should brown in two minutes. 
Drain on brown paper. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Oysters, 1 quart. Salt, 1 teaspoonfnl. 

Cream, 1 pint. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Butter, 1 tablespoonfal. Onion, %. 

Flour, 1 " Mace, 1 blade. 

Put the cream into the double boiler, and cook 
with the piece of onion and mace ten minutes. 
Cook the butter and flour in the frying pan till 
smooth and frothy, and then gradually add the 
cream. Remove the onion and mace, and add the 
salt and pepper. Wash the oysters, and cook in 
their liquor till they look plump and begin to curl. 
Then drain them and put into the sauce. 

Serve in patties, or on toast, or in a potato bor- 
der. 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

Oysters, 1 pint. Flour, 1 tablespoonful. 

Cream, V2 cup. Lemon jaice, 1 teaspoonful 

Oyster liquor, Y2 cup. Pepper, i4 saltspoonful. 

Eggs, 1. Salt, Y2 teaspoonful. 
Butter, 2 tablespoonfnls. 

Put one tablespoonful of butter into a frying 
pan, and when hot, put in the oysters, washed and 
drained. Cook till plump and drain again. Put 
the oyster liquor into a cup, and till the cup with 



FISH. 31 

cream. Cook the flour with the remaining spoon- 
ful of butter till smooth and frothy, and add th® 
liquor a little at a time. Then add the seasoning, 
and the egg beaten light, then the oysters, and as 
soon as hot, serve. Serve in bread or paste pat- 
ties if for lunch or dinner; on toast for breakfast 
or tea. 



MEATS, ENTREES AND 
RECHAUFFES. 



Fillet of Beef, Larded. 

The true fillet is the tenderloin. A short fillet 
weighing two and a half or three pounds willl be 
sufficient for ten persons, at a dinner, where this is 
served as one course. 

Eemove from the fillet all the muscle, ligament 
fat, and smooth tough covering. If not in good 
shape, skewer it into shape with small steel or 
wooden skewers. 

Have some firm, solid, clear, fat, salt pork. Cut 
this into slices one-eighth inch thick, and cut this 
into three and a half inch strips, fit these lardoons 
into the larding needle and lard the fillet, putting 
two or three rows of lardoons on the top, lengthwise 
of the fillet. To lard, put the lardoon into the needle 
as far as it will go, and thrust the needle into the 
meat, taking a stitch, as it were, an inch long and 
J inch deep in the meat ; leave the lardoon stick- 
ing out of the meat half an inch at each end. 
Have the lardoons in the two rows alternating. 

32 



MEATS, ETC. 33 

The lardoon will slip from the needle as it leaves 
the meat. 

Dredge the fillet with salt, pepper and flonr, put 
it into a small pan, with some scraps of pork in the 
bottom, and cook in a hot oven thirty minutes. 
Baste often, and as soon as the flour is brown, with 
the fat in the pan. Serve with brown mushroom 
or tomato sauce. 

Leg of Mutton, Stuffed and Boasted. 

Use either a " raised shoulder " from the fore- 
quarter, or a leg of mutton. Remove the bone, 
keeping the meat as whole as possible. Wipe till 
clean with a wet cloth, stuff, and sew up securely into 
good shape. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. 
Bake in a hot oven or roast for one hour, if wished 
rare ; one and a half hours if wished well done. 
Baste often, and as soon as the flour browns. 
When half done turn the meat, and dredge with 
salt, pej)i3er and flour. 

. Stuffing. 

Mix one cup cracker or staie bread crumbs with 
one saltspoonful salt, thyme and pepper, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of 
chopped onion, with one quarter cup of melted 
butter. If a moist stuffing is desired, add hot 
water till the crumbs hold together. 



34 MEATS, ETC. 

Beef Eoulette. 

Bound of beef, 2 or 8 pounds. Onions, chopped, 1. 

Chopped cooked ham, 1 cup. Flour, 2 tablespoonfnls. 

Eggs, 1. Boiling water, VA pints. 

Mustard, 1 saltspoonful. Whole Cloves, 2. 

Cayenne pepper, 1 speck. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 
Salt Pork, or ham drippings, 4 Pepper, U teaspoonful. 
tablespoonfuls. 

Have the beef cut very thin from the top of the 
round. Mix the ham, mustard, cayenne pepper 
and eggs together. Spread on the beef, roll up 
and tie securely. Dredge with salt, pepper and 
flour, and brown in the hot drippings. Remove to a 
small sauce-jDan. Fry the onions five minutes in 
the fat remaining in the -pan ; then add the flour 
and cook till brown ; then add the water gradually, 
boil up once, and pour over the roulette. Add the 
remainder of the seasoning and simmer three 
hours. Take up the roulette, remove the string 
and strain the gravy over it. 

Hamburg Steaks. 

Chop one pound of lean beef very fine, add to it 
one tablespoonful of onion jaice, half teaspoonful 
of salt, quarter teaspoonful pepper, and mix well 
together. 

Moisten the hands in cold water, take about one 
tablespoonful of the mixture, and shape into balls 
or small steaks. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into a frying-pan, and when hot put in the steaks, 



MEATS, ETC. 35 

brown on one side, then turn and brown on the 
other. Take up the steaks, and add to the butter 
remaining in the pan one teaspoonful of flour, 
when smooth and brown, add half pint of boiling 
water. Season with salt and pepper, and Worcest- 
ershire sauce or lemon juice. Strain over the 
steaks and serve. The steaks may be made in the 
same way, and broiled like plain steak, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and spread with butter. Broil 
four minutes. 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

Cut the steak one inch thick. Wipe ; trim off 
superfluous fat and remove the bone. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt and pepper. Broil over a bright 
fire from four to ten minutes, turning every ten 
seconds. Bemove to a hot platter, season with 
butter, salt and pepper, or serve with Maitre d' 
Hotel butter. 

Beoiled Chops en Papellote. 

Wipe, trim, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and wrap in buttered papers, turning up the edges 
like a turnover. Broil from eight to ten minutes. 
Remove the paper, place on a hot platter, cover 
the bone with paper ruflles, and garnish with 
parsely. 



36 MEATS, ETC. 

Pan-beoiled Chops. 

Wipe and trim the chops. Heat a frying pan 
very hot — till it smokes. Put in th© chops, and 
turn every ten seconds ; pour out every drop of 
fat as it comes from the chops, keeping the pan 
dry and very hot. Broil five minutes. In this 
way very fat chops may be browned without burn- 
ing. Bemove to a hot platter, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. 

Mutton Chops, Breaded. 

Wipe and trim, and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per. Dip in beaten egg, and then in sifted bread 
crumbs, drop into hot fat that will brov/n a piece 
of bread in forty seconds. When the crumbs are 
brown, remove the kettle to a cooler part of the 
stove. Fry eight minutes. Serve with tomato 
sauce, green peas, or mashed potatoes. Cover the 
bone with paper ruffles. 

Yeal Cutlets. 

Slice of veal, 1. Salt, 1 saltspoonfal. 

Salt pork, M pound. Pepper, Vi saltspoonful. 

Stock or water, 1 pint. Flour, 1 tablespoonful. 

Eggs, 1. Lemons, 1. 
Bread Crumbs, 1 cup. 

One slice of veal from the leg. Wipe and 
remove the bone, skin and gristle. Cut into pieces 



MEATS, ETC. 37 

the size of a mutton chop. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dip in beaten egg, and then in the bread 
crumbs. Cut the pork into small pieces, and fry. 
Then fry the cutlets in the fat till brown on both 
sides. Then put the cutlets in a sauce-pan with 
the pork scraps. To the fat remaining in the pan 
— there should be two tablespoonfuls — add the 
flour, and brown it ; then add the stock or water, 
let it boil up, then add seasoning, and pour over 
the cutlets, and simmer forty-five minutes,or till the 
cutlets are tender. Bemove to a platter, and strain 
the gravy over them. Use one tablespoonf ul of lem- 
on juice in the gravy, and cut the remainder into 
thin slices and use as a garnish. Tomato catsup, 
Worcestershire sauce, or horseradish, may be used 
in place of the lemon, to season the gravy. 

Casserole of Eice and Meat. 

Rice, 1 cup. Chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful. 

Cold meat chopped, IY2 oups. Thyme, 1 saltspoonful, 

Salt, U teaspoonful. Sweet marjoram, 1 slatspoonful. 

Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. Cracker crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Celery salt, 1 '' Eggs, 1. 

Chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful. 

Boil the rice till tender and drain. Butter a 
three-pint mould and sprinkle with fine bread 
crumbs. Line the bottom and sides one-half inch 
deep, with the rice. Mix the meat with the crack- 
er crumbs, egg and seasoning,and moisten with hot 
water or stock, till as thin as a drop batter. Place 



38 MEATS, ETC. 

this in the center of the mould, and cover with 
the remainder of the rice. Bake thirty minutes, 
or steam forty-five minutes. Turn it out, and pour 
tomato sauce over and around it. 

Eagout of Mutton. 

Cold meat, 1 quart. Butter, 2 tablespoonfnls, 

Onions, 12 button or 2 common. Flour, 2 " 

Carrots, 1. Stock or water, 1 quart. 

Turnip, 1. • Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Potatoes, 3. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Cut the meat into inch cubes or thin slices, re- 
moving the greater part of the fat, and the gristle. 
Cut the vegetables into one-half inch cubes, or the 
potatoes may be cut larger, or into balls with a 
cutter. Cook the onions, carrot and turnip in salt- 
ed boiling water till tender, and drain. The time 
will depend upon the age, varying from one-half 
hour to one and a half hours. The older the veg- 
etables the longer it will take. Cook the butter 
and flour together till smooth and brown, then add 
the stock or water, slowly, then put in the meat 
and simmer till very tender. The time will de- 
pend on the kind of meat, varying from one-half 
to one hour. When tender add the vegetables, 
and cook fifteen minutes. Boil the potatoes in 
salted water ten minutes, or till tender, drain and 
add to the ragout just before serving. Season, and 
serve with a border of mashed potatoes, boiled rice 
or macaroni. Serve the meat in the center and the 



MEATS, ETC. 39 

vegetables around it. Mutton, veal or beef may 
be used. If meat and vegetables are cooked till 
very tender and the ragout is well seasoned, it is 
very nice. 

Curry of Mutton. 

Cold mutton, 1 pint. Curry powder, 1 tablespoonful. 

Butter, 1 tablespoonful. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Onion, 1. Stock or water, 1 pint. 
Flour. 1 tablespoonful. 

Cut the meat into inch cubes, or slices. Fry the 
onion in the butter till yellow and then add the 
flour, curry powder and salt.. Cook till brown and 
then add the stock gradually. Put in the meat 
and simmer till tender. Serve with a border of 
boiled rice, or Turkish pilaf. A veal curry may be 
made in the same way. Baw meat may be used, 
but should be cooked a longer time. 

Blanquette of Chicken. 

Cold cooked chicken, 1 quart. Nutmeg, 1 speck. 

Chicken stock, 1 cup, Pepper^l saltspoonful. 

Cream, 1 cup. ' Salt, 1 tablespoonf nls. 
Butter, 2 tablespoonfols. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful. 

Flour, 2 " Yolks of eggs, 2. 

Cut the chicken in one-half inch cubes. 

Cook the butter and flour together till smooth 
and frothy, then add the chicken stock, a little at 
a time, and when that boils up add the cream, re- 
serving one-fourth cupful. When hot, add the 



40 MEATS, ETC. 

chicken and seasoning and cook ten minutes. 
Then beat the eggs and add to them the cold 
cream. At the end of the ten minutes, add the 
eggs, and cook till stiffened, which will be in 
five minutes. Taste, to see if more seasoning is 
needed, and serve in a potato or rice border, or on 
toast, and garnish with j)oints of toast. 

Chicken Chartreuse. 

Cold cooked chicken, 9 ounces. Capers, 1 tablespooful. 

Lean cooked ham, 3 " Lemon juice, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Sausages, 2. Cayenne pepper, speck. 

Bread Crumbs, fine, 3 tablespoon- Eggs, 2. 
fuls. 

Chop the chicken and ham very fine add the 
inside of the sausages, crumbs, eggs beaten, and 
the seasoning. Mix well, add mor® salt and pepper 
if needed. The amount will depend U23on the 
ham and sausages. Add enough hot stock to make 
as thin as a drop batter. Butter a quart mould, 
pack in the mixture tightly, cover with buttered 
paper, and steam three hours. 

Serve as it is when cold, garnished with parsley, 
capers, and hard cooked eggs, or mould in jelly. 

To mould in aspic Jelly. 

Put one quart chicken stock, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one saltsj^oonful of celery salt, a bou- 
quet of sweet herbs, the juice and rind of one-half a 
lemon, with the white of one Qg% beaten, with one- 
half box of gelatine which has been soaked in one- 



MEATS, ETC. 41 

half cupful of cold water, into a saucepan. Bring 
the mixture slowly to a boil, and when a thick 
scum has formed,set it toward the back part of the 
stove for one-half hour. Strain through a napkin. 
Put a layer one-half inch deep into a three-pint 
mould. When this is stiff garnish with French 
paste, capers or vegetables, cut into fancy shapes. 

Now put a few drops of the liquid jelly onto 
these to hold them in place. When this is stiff, 
remove the chicken from the mould and place 
carefully on the center of the jelly. 

Pour the remainder of the jelly around the 
chicken, filling the space between the mould and 
the sides of the larger mould. Set away till the 
jelly is stiff. To turn out the chartreuse, wet the 
sides and bottom of the mould with warm water 
till a small amount of jelly is melted. Place a 
platter over the top of the mould, and then invert 
both quickly. Garnish with more of the aspic 
jelly cut into cubes, slices of lemon and parsley. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Cooked chicken, 1 pint. Mace, 1 saltspoonful. 

Milk or chicken stock, 1 pint. Onion juice, VA teaspoonful. 

Flour, 3 tablespoonf ols. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful. 

Butter, 3 " Cayenne pepper, 1 speck. 

Lemon juice, 3 tablespoonfuls Eggs, 2. 

Salt, lYi teaspoonf uls. Bread crumbs, 1 pint. 

Celery salt, M teaspoonful. 

Remove bone, skin and gristle and chop the 
chicken very fine. Scald the milk. Cook the but- 



42 MEATS, ETC. 

ter and flour together till smooth and frothy, then 
add the milk, gradually, making a stiff white sauce. 
Add the sauce to the chicken, making the mixture 
a little thinner than can be handled. It will be 
stiffer when cold, and the softer the mixture, the 
more creamy will be the croquettes. Then add 
the seasoning, and mix ihoroughly. Spread on a 
platter, and set away till cold. Beat the eggs on 
a plate till smooth. Sprinkle the sifted crumbs 
onto a bread board. Then take a heaping tea- 
spoonful of the mixture, and make it into a ball, 
smoothing out all cracks or folds in the mixture. 
Then roll in the crumbs, pressing the ball till 
cylindrical, then clasp it gently in the hand and 
flatten the end in the crumbs, then turn the hand 
over and flatten the other end. Now place the 
croquette in the Qgg and pour the egg over it with 
a teaspoon, being careful that every part is covered 
with the Qggj if it is not, the fat will find its way 
inside and break the croquette open. Bemove the 
croquette from the egg with a wide bladed knife. 
Next, roll the croquette in the crumbs again and 
flatten the ends with a knife. After dipping in 
the Qgg and crumbs they may stand some time if 
desired. 

To fry them, the fat should be hot enough to 
brown a piece of bread in forty seconds. Put the 
croquettes into a frying basket, not having them 
touch. Lower the basket gently into the fat. 



MEATS, ETC. 



43 



When golden brown the croquettes are done. It 
should take sixty seconds. Remove them carefully 
from the basket and drain on brown paper. 

Serve on a napkin, with a few sprigs of parsley. 
The croquettes are improved by using one half 
sweetbreads or mushrooms. 

Mutton Croquettes. 



Cooked mutton, 1 pint. 
Milk, 1 pint. 
Flour, 3 tablespoonf uls. 
Butter, 3 tabJespoonfuls. 
Lemon juice, 2 tablespoonf uls. 



Onion juice, 1 teaspoonful. 
Salt, 1 tablespoonful. 
Pepper, li teaspoonful. 
Chopped Parsely, 1 tablespoonful. 



Prepare, mix, shape and fry like chicken cro- 
quettes. 

Creme Frete. 



Milk, 2H cups. 

Sugar, Y2 cup. 

Corn starch, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Flour, 1 tablespoonful. 

Yolks of eggs, 3. 

Stick cinnamon, 1 inch. 



Butter, 1 teaspoonful. 
Vanilla, 1 teaspoonful. 
Salt, 1 ealtspoonful. 
Eggs, 2. 
Crumbs, IV2 cups. 



Scald one pint of milk with the cinnamon. Beat 
together the sugar, corn starch, flour, one-fourth 
cup milk and yolks of eggs. Add the mixture to 
the milk and stir till it stiflPens. Cook fifteen min- 
utes, then add the butter, vanilla and salt. Remove 
the cinnamon, and pour into a buttered bread i)an, 
and set away till cold. Then cut it into strips or 



44 MEATS, ETC. 

diamonds, and roll in crumbs and egg, and fry like 
croquettes. 

Feitter Batter. 

Eggs, 2. Salt, 1 saltspoonful. 

Flour, 1 cupful. Olive oil or melted butter, 1 table- 

Milk, Yz cupful. spoonful. 

Sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eg2:s separa- 
tely. Add the milk to the yolks, and pour onto 
the flour, making a smooth batter; then add the 
oil or butter, and beat well. Fold in the whites of 
the eggs. If the batter is used for meat or for 
fish add on© tablespoonful lemon juice or vinegar, 
if for fruit use one teaspoonf ul of sugar 

Banana Fritters. 

Select ripe bananas, and cut them in two length- 
wise, or if yery large cut again crossways, spread 
on a plate and sprinkle with orange or lemon juice 
and sugar. Let them stand half an hour, and then 
dip into the batter. Have the batter just cover 
them, and drop gently into hot fat that will brown 
a piece of bread in sixty seconds. When brown 
on one side turn, and when golden brown all over 
remove with a wire spoon, and drain on brown 
paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. 

Apple Fritters. 

Select sour apples, pare and core them. Cut in- 



MEATS, ETC. 45 

to quarter inch slices across the apple, leaving the 
hole in the centre. Spread on a plate, and 
sprinkle with lemon juice, sugar and cinnamon or 
nutmeg. Let them stand for half an hour. Fry 
like banana fritters. 

Sardine Canapes. 

Sardines, 12. Cayenne pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Slices of bread, 12. Hard cooked eggs, 4. 

Cold butter, 1 tablespoonful. Clarified butter, 4 tablespoonfuls. 
Lemon juice, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Cut the bread into strips three inches long, one 
and a half inches wid© and a quarter of an inch thick 
Fry till golden in the clarified butter. Remove 
skin and bones from four sardines, and pound to a 
paste with the cold butter, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice and pepper. Chop the yolks and 
whites of the egg, separately, very fine. Spread 
each strip of bread with the sardine paste. Out 
the remainder of the sardines into fillets. Put two 
fillets on each canap^, having them near the edge 
of the strips of bread, pour a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice over the fillets. Fill the spaces be- 
tween the fillets with little mounds of egg, alternat- 
ing the yolks with the white. Pound all the sardines 
and eggs together, and spread between two strips 
of bread, like small sandwiches. 

Canapes are served at dinners, luncheons, sup- 
pers and garden parties. Serve as a relish with 
olives. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 



Beown Sauce. 

Brown stock, 1 pint. Chopped carrots, 2 tablespoonf uls, 

Flour, 2 tablespoonf uls ( ). Lemon juice, 1 tablespoonf ul. 

Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Chopped onions, 2 tablespoonfuls. Pepper, 1 saltspoonf ul. 

Cook the vegetables in the butter fifteen miniites, 
add the flour, and when as brown as a chestnut 
draw the pan back and let it cool slightly, then gradu- 
ually add the stock, and then the seasoning. Set 
the sauce pan where the sauce will boil slowly on 
one side for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, 
strain and serve. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

Add the liquor from a can of mushrooms to the 
hroum sauce with the stock. When done add the 
mushrooms, and cook five minutes longer. 

White Sauce. 

Milk, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Flour, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

46 



SAUCES. 47 

Scald the milk in the double boiler. Put the 
butter and flour into a, frying pan; when they 
become smooth and frothy all over the pan, add 
the milk. Add a little at a time, and let the 
sauce boil up each time. Stir constantly, and 
keep the sauce smooth. Be sure that the lumps 
are smoothed out when it is quite stiff. Let each 
lot of milk become well blended with the flour 
before more is added. Add salt and pepper. 

This is used for creamed vegetables, escaloped 
dishes, etc. 

Drawn Butter. 

Hot stock or water, 1 pint. Salt, V2 teaspoonf ul. 

Butter, V<2, cupful. Pepper, }2 saltspoonful. 

Flour, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Mix like the white sauce. Use half milk if pre- 
fered. Use tiie above for the foundation of the 
following sauces: 

Shrimp Sauce. — Add one cupful of shrimps, 
chopped fine, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
and a speck of cayenne pepper. 

Lobster Sauce. — Put the shells, pounded, and 
the scraggy parts of a lobster into one and a half 
pints of cold water, boil half an hour. Strain the 
water and use for the foundation of the sauce. 
Add half pint of meat cut into quarter-inch cubes, 
and the dried and pounded coral, a speck of 



48 SAUCES. 

cayenne pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
jnice. 

Egg Sauce. — Add three hard cooked eggs, 
chopped. 

Parsely Sauce. — Add two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped parsley. 

Oyster Sauce. — Cook one pint of oysters till 
plump; drain, and use liquor, for sauce. Add on© 
saltspoonful of celery salt and one speck cayenne 
pepper, and the yolk of one egg if you like. Add 
oysters and cook five minutes. 

Caper Sauce. — Add three tablespoonfuls of 
capers and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Ckeam Sauce. 

Cream, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoonfal. 

Butter, 1 tablespoonful. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Flour, 1 tablespoonful. 

Mix like white sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Tomato, 1 pint. Whole cloves, 2. 

Hot water, V2 pint. Allspice berries, 2. 

Chopped onion, 1 tablespoonful. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Parsley, 2 sprigs. Flour, 1 " 

Bouquet of sweet herbs. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Peppercorns, 2. Pepper, Vi saltspoonful. 

Put the tomato, water, herbs, parsley, and spices 
into a granite sauce pan. Fry the onion in the 



SAUCES. 49 

butter till yellow, add the flour, and when frothy 
add the tomato. Return to the sauce pan and boil 
ten minutes and strain. 

Mint Sauce. 

Fresh chopped mint, 1 cup. Vinegar, V2 cup. 

Sugar, li cup. 

Wash, and chop the mint very fine, add suga^ 
and let it stand one hour. 

Maitee d' Hotel Butter. 

Butter, }i cup. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful. 

Salt, Vz teaspoonful. Chopped parsley, 1 " 

Pepper, M saltspoonful. 

Cream the butter and add the seasoning, stirring 
well. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

Buter, Y2 cup. Salt, 1 saltspoonful. 

Yolks of eggs, 3 or 4. Cayenne pepper, ^4 saltspoonful. 

Lemon juice, IV2 tablespoonfuls. Boiling water, }i cup. 

Rub the butter to a cream, stir in the yolks of 
the eggs unbeaten, one at a time, and beat well, 
add the seasoning and then beat with a Dover 
beater for five minutes. Add the boiling water. 
Set the bowl into a sauce pan of boiling water and 
stir till it stiffens, like a soft custard. Remove 
immediately when done or it will curdle. 



50 SAUCES. 

Bkead Sauce. 

Milk, 1 pint. Onions, H. 

Sifted crumbs, M cup. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Coarse crumbs, H cup. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 
Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Cook the milk, fine crumbs, and onion in the 
double boiler fifteen minutes. Remove the onion 
and add one tablespoonful of butter, salt and pep- 
per. Serve this with game. Brown the coarse 
crumbs in the remainder of the butter, and when 
brown throw over the roasted birds. 



"-^i-S^-tf^'^i- 



\ 



VEGETABLES. 



General Directions for Boiling Vegetables. 

Vegetables, such as turnips, onions, carrots, 
parsnips, cabbage, cauliflower, rice macaroni, and 
spaghetti, should be cooked in a large quantity of 
boiling water, at least four times the quantity of 
vegetables. Salt should be added when about half 
done. 

A saltspoonful of soda added to one quart of 
beans, peas, cabbage, ^tc, will make them more 
tender and preserve the color. 

Boil vegetables steadily the whole time. Do 
not let them stand in warm w^ater. 

Drain all vegetables as soon as cooked. They 
deteriorate rapidly by over cooking, but should al- 
ways be cooked till tender. 

They may be served simply with salt, butter 
and pepper, or w^ith a white sauce. 

The Ume of cooking depends upon the or/e, size^ 
and quality of the vegetables. The older the veg- 
etables the longer time they require. Fresh sum- 
mer vegetables will cook in half the time required 
by those which have been gathered several days. 

51 



52 VEGETABLES. 

Here is a time-table giving the approximate 
time required for boiling vegetables : 

Fresh green corn, five minutes; older or wilted 
corn, ten minutes. 

Peas, asparagus, potatoes, rice, celery, spinach, 
canned tomatoes, summer squash, thirty minutes. 

Macaroni, young beets, young carrots, young 
turnips, young onions, young parsnips, sweet po- 
tatoes, canned corn, young cabbage, thirty to forty- 
five minutes. 

Shell beans, oyster plant, winter squash, spagh- 
etti, cauliflower, forty-five minutes to one hour. 

Winter carrots, winter turnips, Bermuda onions, 
winter parsnips, string beans, one hour to two 
hours. 

String beans, two to three hours. 

Old beets, forever. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Potatoes, 12. Salt, 1 tablespoonful. 

Boiling water, 2 quarts. 

Wash, pare and soak the potatoes in cold water 
from fifteen minutes to two hours, according to 
the age of the potatoes. The older the potatoes 
the longer they should soak. Cover with the boil- 
ing water and boil fifteen minutes, then add the 
salt and boil fifteen minutes longer. Pour off every 
drop of the water and shake over the stove till dry 



VEGETABLES. 53 

and floury. If they are to stand before serving, 
cover with a towel. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Boiled potatoes, 12. Salt, 1 tablespoonf ui. 

Scalded milk, Vi cup. Butter, 1 " 

Mash the potatoes with a wire masher as soon 
as they are boiled, in a hot sauce pan. When fine 
and light, add the butter and salt. Then add the 
milk gradually, beating well. When all is added, 
beat with a spoon till very light and white. Be 
sure that the potato is kept hot and that the 
milk is hot. 

Potato Puffs. 

Hot mashed potatoes, 1 pint. Parsley, 1 teaspoonf ul. 

Egg, 1. 

Prepare as for mashed potato, add th© parsley 
chopped, and nearly all of the egg, well beaten. 
Shape into small, flattish balls. Place on a but- 
tered tin sheet, and brush over the top with the 
remainder of the egg. Bake till light brown in a 
hot oven. Or put the potato through a pastry 
bag, forming fancy shapes. These make a pretty 
garnish for meat dishes. 



54 VEGETABLES. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Cold boiled potatoes, 1 quart. Chopped parsley, 1 tableepoonf ul. 

Chopped onioD, 1 tablespoenful. Bait, 1 teaspoonful. 
Butter, 3 " Pepper, 1 saltepoonful. 

Cat the potatoes into one-half inch cubes, sprink- 
le with salt and pepper. Fry the onion in the 
butter till yellow. Put in the potatoes and cook 
till hot and slightly browned, add the parsley and 
serve. 

Potato a la MaItbe d' Hotel. 

Cooked potatoes, 1 quart. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Milk, 1 pint. Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

Butter, 3 tablespoonfuls. Lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful. 

Yolks of eggs, 2. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful. 
Flour, 1 teaspoonful. 

Cut the potatoes into one-half inch cubes, sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper. Put into the double 
boiler with the milk. Cook ten minutes. Cream 
the butter, add eggs, flour, lemon juice, and 
parsley, then stir into the potatoes and cook five 
minutes, stirring carefully to keep the potatoes in 
whole pieces. 

Ceeamed Potatoes. 

Cut one quart of cooked potatoes into one-half 
inch cubes, season with ^It and pepper. Cook in 
one pint of cream sauce for one-half hour in the 
double boiler. 



VEGETABLES. 55 

EscALOPED Potatoes. 

Turn the creamed potaioes into a buttered escal- 
oped dish. Cover with one-half cupful of sifted 
crumbs, moistened with one tablespoonf ul of melt- 
ed butter, and bake twenty minutes. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Scrub the potatoes with a brush. Put them in- 
to a hot oven, bake forty-five minutes, or till as 
soft as a mellow apple. Then break the skin to let 
out the steam, wrap in a napkin and serve imme- 
diately. 

Creamed Vegetables. 

Creamed carrots, creamed onions, creamed caul- 
iflower, creamed cabbage and creamed parsnips 
are prepared in nearly the same way. Cut the 
carrots and parsnips into one-half inch cubes and 
boil bj the directions given, till perfectly tender. 
Boil one onion with one quart of carrots, mash 
the onions, and break the cauliflower into small 
pieces. Add to one quart of these cooked vegeta- 
bles, one pint of White Sauce Add more salt and 
pepper, if needed. 

EscALOPED Vegetables. 

These same vegetables are very nice escaloped. 



66 VEGETABLES. 

Turn the vegetables as prepared in the above reci- 
pe, into a buttered escaloped dish, with alternate 
layers of white sauce, using just enough sauce to 
moisten them. Cover with one-half cup of sifted 
crumbs moistened with one tablespoonful of melt- 
ed butter. Bake one-half hour. 

To Boil Cabbage. 

To boil a cabbage so that it will not fill the 
house with an unpleasant odor, follow these di- 
rections exactly. 

Wash the cabbage uader the faucet and drain in 
a colander. Have a large kettle nearly full of 
water boiling rapidly, break off the leaves from 
the cabbage, one at a time, and drop them into 
the water, add one tablespoonful of salt and one 
saltspoonful of soda, keep the water boiling rap- 
idly all the time and the cover off. A fresh cab- 
bage will cook in one-half hour. 

Escaloped Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes, 1 quart. Salt, 1 tablespoonful. 

Stale bread, 1 pint. Pepper, H saltspoonful. 

Bread crumbs, M cup. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful. 
Butter, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

Use fresh or canned tomatoes. Butter an es- 
caloped dish. Mix the seasoning with the toma- 
toes. Put in a layer of tomatoes, then one of the 



VEG^iTABLES. 57 

bread broken into bits, then a few bits of butter, 
and so continue till the dish is full, nsing two ta- 
blespoonfuls of the butter. Moisten the sifted 
crumbs with the remainder of the butter melted 
and put on the top, or stale bread may be used 
for all. More butter may be used if wished richer. 

Baked Macaeoni. 

Macaroni, H lb. Breadcrumbs, 1 cup. 

Whith sauce, 1 pint. Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Grated cheese, 1 cup. 

Butter an escaloped dish, put in a layer of the 
sauce, then one of boiled macaroni, cut into six 
inch pieces. Sprinkle with cheese, and so con- 
tinue till all the materials are used. Melt the 
butter, stir in the crumbs, spread on the top of the 
macaroni, and bake one-half hour. 

Spaghetti. 

Prepare like macaroni, substituting the spagh- 
etti for the macaroni, and one pint of tomato sauce 
for th© white sauce. Serve on a platter. 

Turkish Pilaf. 

Strained and seasoned tomato, 1 Butter, li cup. 

cup. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Stock, 1 cup. Pepper, }i teaspoonful. 
Bice, % cup. 



58 VEGETABLES. 

Boil one pint of tomato with one chopped onion, 
one sprig of parsley, two cloves and two pep- 
percorns for ten minutes and strain. This gives 
the one cup of tomato. Wash the rice through 
three waters, then boil in one quart of water for 
five minutes, and drain. Put the rice into the 
double boiler, add tomato, stock, salt and pepper. 
Steam one hour, or till the rice is ten- 
der, add the butter, in small bits, on the top, Do 
not stir. Remove the cover and cover with a tow- 
el. Let it stand ten minutes, and serve. 

Mac:^doine of Vegetables. 

French peas, 1 can, or Stock, 3 gills. 

Fresh peas, 1 quart. Butter, 3 teaspoonf uls . 

Carrot cubes, 1 pint. Sugar, 3 " 

Turnip " 1 pint, or Salt, 3 
Potato balls, 1 quart. 

Put the vegetables into separate sauce pans, add 
two quarts of boiling water and cook till tender. 
If canned peas are used, drain them and pour cold 
water on them. When tender drain off the water 
from each vegetable, and add to each, one-third of 
the butter, salt, and sugar and stock. 

Boil rapidly till the stock is absorbed. If po- 
tatoes are used omit the sugar and stock and add 
one tablespoonful of butter. 

Spread the turnips on a warm platter, having a 



Vegetables. 59 

border rather thick and the thickness decrease to- 
ward the center of the platter. 

Heap the carrots on the turnips covering all but 
a border one inch wide.. Flatten the carrots and 
heap the peas upon them. 

If potatoes are used in place of turnips, cut 
them in balls or cubes, boil for ten minutes and 
drain, season with one teaspoonful of salt, one 
Tablespoonful of butter. 



^^^"^-^^ 



SALADS. 



Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Mustard, 1 tablespoonf ul. Salad oil, 1 pint. 

Sugar, 1 " Vinegar, % cup. 

Cayenne pepper, 2 specks. Lemons, M or 1. 

Salt, 1 teaspoonf ul. Whipped cream, 1 cup. 
Yolks of eggs, 3. 

Mix the dry ingredients with the yolks of the 
egg in a quart bowl. Beat with the large sized 
Dover beater till thick. Now add the oil, one tea- 
spoonful or so, at a time, not more, till the mixture 
is so thick that it can be taken upon the beater, 
then add a few drops of vinegar, which wdll thin 
it; then continue with the oil, adding it more rap- 
idly, and so on till oil and vinegar are used. Then 
add the lemon juice. Just before serving fold in 
the whipped cream. The cream may be omitted 
and beaten whites of eggs substituted, but it is 
not so nice. 

Boiled Dressing. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoonf ul. Vinegar, H cup. 

Salt, 2 '• Cream or milk, 1 cup. 

Cayenne pepper, hi saltspoonf ul. Melted butter or oil, 2 tablespoon- 
Sugar, 2 tablespoonf als. f uls. 

60 



SALADS. Gl 

Mix the dry ingredients, and moisten with the 
vinegar, pour on to the beaten eggs, stirring as 
you do so. Add the cream and then the butter. 
Place the bowl in a pan of boiling water and stir 
till it thickens. Remove from the water, strain, 
and set away till cold. 

Sour Cream Dressing. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoonful. Eggs, 1. 

Salt, 1 " Melted butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls. Sour cream, 3 " 

Mix the salt and mustard, add the vinegar 
and stir till smooth. Beat the egg and add 
th© vinegar, stirring all the time, and then the 
butter. Set the bowl into a pan of boiling water 
and cook till it thickens. Bemove from th© fire 
and set away till cold. The richer th© cream the 
better. If it is clabbered, stir it in. If it is not, 
whip with the Dover beater till stiff and then fold 
it in. If the cream is very rich the butter may 
be omitted. 

French Dressing. 

Salt, 1 saltspoonful. Vinegar, 1 tablespoonful. 

Pepper, Vz " Oil, 3 

Mix the saxt and pepper, add one tablespoonful 
of oil. Stir and then add vinegar and the remainder 
of the oil. A few drops of onion juice may b© 
added. 



62 SALADS. 

Chicken Salad. 

Eemove skin, fat, gristle and bones from cold 
cooked chicken and cut into one-qnarter inch 
cubes. To one quart of this chicken add a mar- 
inade made by mixing three tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar, one tablespoonful of oil, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. Mix well 
and set away in the refrigerator for two or three 
hours. 

Cut in thin slices enough tender, white celery 
to make one pint. Wash in cold water, put in a 
bowl with some ice on top and set away in the re- 
frigerator. At serving time, not before, drain the 
celery and mix with the chicken. Moisten with 
mayonnaise or sour cream dressing and turn into 
a salad bowl. Spread one-half pint or so of dress- 
ing over the top. Garnish with some of the 
blanched celery leaves and olives. 

Sheimp Salad. 

If canned shrimps are used, rinse them in cold 
water and drain. If fresh ones are used, shell 
them. Cut into one-half inch cubes and sprinkle 
over them a marinade made by mixing one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
pepper, one tablespoonful of oil, and two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and one of lemon juice. 
Place in the refrigerator for two or three hours. 



SALADS. 63 

Take the tender heart leaves from three or four 
heads of lettuce. Wash them and place in a pan 
with some pieces of ice. Set in the ice box till 
crispy. 

At serving time shake away moisture from the 
leaves and arrange in th© form of shells by put- 
ting two or three leaves together. Moisten the 
shrimps v/ith mayonnaise or sour cream dressing, 
and place a heaping teaspoonful in each shell, and 
one teaspoonful of dressing on top. Garnish with 
capers and bits of lettuce leaves or parsley. The 
shrimps are sometimes left whole. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Cold boiled potatoes, 1 quart. Chopped onion, 1 tablespoonful. 
Cold boiled beets, 1 cup. " celery, Yz cup. 

Cold boiled carrots, Vz cup. Hard cooked eggs, 2. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful. French dressing. 

Cut the vegetables into one-half inch cubes or 
into fancy shapes with vegetable cutters. Sprink- 
le with one teaspoonful of salt and one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Chop the onion very fine 
and mix with twice the recipe of French Dressing. 
Chop the whites of the eggs. Mix the vegetables 
in alternate layers on a platter or salad bowl, 
moistening each layer with the dressing. Rub the 
yolks of eggs through a strainer. Reserve some 
nice pieces of beet for the top, and throw over th© 
whole some of the chopped parsley and yolks of 
egg' 



64 SAUCES. 

Garnish with sprigs of parsley or blanched cel- 
ery leaves. The amount and variety of vegetables 
may be varied by the taste and season. Sour 
cream or boiled dressing may be used in place of 
French Dressing. 

Makguerite Salad. 

Arrange sixteen small, crisp leaves of lettuce on 
a platter, putting two leaves together to make a 
shell. Cut the whites of eight hard cooked eggs 
into rings and mash the yolks and moisten with 
mayonnaise boiled, or sour cream dressing. Place 
the white rings on the lettuce for the petals 
of the daisy and the yolks in the center. 

Serve more dressing with the salad. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA 
DISHES. 



Plain Omelet. 

Eggs, 4. Milk, 4 tablespoonfuls. 

Salt, V2 teaspoonf ul. Butter, 1 teaepoonf ul. 

Beat the eggs till well broken but not light, add 
the salt and milk. Put a small French frying pan 
where it will heat slowly, and a small platter to 
heat in the oven. Eub the butter around in the 
pan and when hot, turn in the egg. Shake the 
pan vigorously t© keep the egg moving, and when 
thick and creamy tip the pan from you, and with 
a knife roll up the omelet away from you. Let it 
rest in the pan for one half minute, to brown on 
the bottom; then take the pan in the right hand, 
and the platter in the left, and turn the omelet in- 
to the platter. Serve immediately. 

Light Omelet. 

Use th« same quantities as for Plain Omelet. 
Beat the eggs separatelv till very light. Add salt 

"65 



m BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

and milk to th© yolks and Jold in the whites. 
Turn into the hot buttered pan, cover with a hot 
cover and remove toward the back of the stove. 
When stiff and dry in the center or in about four 
or five minutes, place in the top of the oven to dry 
the top, then fold into one half the pan, and turn 
out onto the hot platter. 

Egg Vermicelli. 

Eggs, 3. Pepper, 54 saltspoonful 

Milk, 1 cup. Flour, 1 teaspoonf ul. 

Salt, Vz teaspoonf ul. Butter, 1 teaspoonf ul. 

Cook the eggs hard. Chop the whites fine, 
mash the yolks, and add one saltspoonful of must- 
ard, a speck of cayenne pepper, one-half saltspoon- 
ful of salt, and one tablespoonf ul of cream. Cook 
the butter and flour till smooth and frothy, and 
then add the milk gradually, and the salt, pepper, 
and whites of eggs. Cut six rounds of toast with 
a cutter. Pile the whites of eggs on them and pour 
the sauce around. Mash the yolks through a 
strainer over the whites. Garnish with points of 
toast and parsley. 

Egg Baskets. 

Eggs, 3. Salt, 1/2 teaspoonful. 

Chopped cooked meat, 3 table- Pepper, 1 saltspoonful. 

spoonfuls. Mustard, 1 saltspoonful. 
Melted butter, 1 tablespoonful. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 67 

Cook the eggs hard. Cut in two crossways and 
cut a thin slice from each end so that the eggs may 
stand upright, and place on a platter. Remove 
the yolks, add the meat, which should be chicken, 
veal or ham, and chopped very fine, butter, seas- 
oning and cream enough to hold the mixture in 
shape. Mash till smooth. Make into balls the size 
of the original yolks, and place in the white cups. 
Pour one cupful of the white sauce around them, 
and set in the oven for five minutes, then place a 
tiny sprig of parsley in the top of each, and serve, 

EscALOPED Eggs. 

Eggs. 6. Butter, % cup. 

White sauce, 1 pint. Cold meat, 1 cup. 

Cracker crumbs, 1 cup. 

Cook the eggs hard. Chop the ham, tongue 
fish or chicken, very fine. Moisten the crumbs 
with the butter, melted. Make the white sauce 
from milk, cream, or stock. Chop the whites of 
the eggs, and put the yolks through a strainer. 
Make alternate layers of the sauce, crumbs, whites 
and yolks, putting crumbs on the top. Bake till 
the mixture is heated through and the crumbs are 
brown. 

Baked Eggs. 

Small shallow dishes, of various shapes and 
qualities, come on purpose for serving baked, or 



68 BREAKFAST AND TSA DISHES, 

shirred eggs, and there are many ways of serving. 

No. 1. Butter an egg dish and break an egg in- 
to it, being careful not to break the yolk. Sprink- 
le with salt and pepper and bake till the white is 
jelly-like. Place a bit of butter on the top of the 
egg and serve. Or they may be baked on a platter 
in the same way. Place a strip of broiled or fried 
breakfast bacon on the top of each egg, for a va- 
riety. 

No. 2. Sprinkle the dishes with seasoned and 
buttered cracker, or bread crumbs, drop in the 
egg, cover with crumbs and bake till the white is 
jelly-like and the crumbs are brown. 

No. 3. A great variety of flavors may be given 
to the eggs by preparing in either of the preceding 
ways, and spreading one of the following in the 
dish before the egg is dropped:— A few drops of 
onion juice; one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped cooked ham, or 
one teaspoonful of grated cheese. 

No. 4. Beat two or three extra whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, season with a sprinkle of salt, and 
spread it on a platter, making little hollows like 
nests, in.it, or one nest in each little dish. Break 
a whole egg into the nest, and bake as before. 

Hard Cooked Eggs. 

Put the eggs into a covered sauce pan contain- 
ing enough boiling water to cover the eggs. Set 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 69 

the sauce pan where the water will keep hot but 
not boil, for twenty minutes. This will give a 
more digestible egg than one boiled for ten min- 
utes. 

Soft Cooked Eggs. 

Place the eggs in water as for Hard Cooked Eggs, 
and let them remain there for five or ten minutes, 
as they are liked soft or stiff. The less an egg is 
cooked the more digestible it is. The whit© 
should be like a jelly. 

Tea. 

Allow one teaspoonful of te'a aud one-half pint 
of fresh boiling water to each person. Scald the 
tea pot and put in the tea, let it stand on the stove 
for a minute, then add the water. Let it steep 
but not boil, from three to five minutes. 

Boiled Coffee. 

Mix one cup of ground coffee with one egg and 
one-half cup of cold water. Scald the coffee pot 
and pour in the coffee mixture and add one quart 
and one cup of fresh boiling water. Close the 
coffee pot tightly, and just bring the coffee to a 
boil ; then plac© it at the back of the stove where 
it will* keep just below the boiling point, for ten 
minutes. Then pour out a cupful to clear the noz- 



70 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

zle, and turn back, add one-half cupf al of cold wa- 
ter and in a minnte it is ready to serve. Serve 
with scalded milk and cream. 

Chocolate. 

Put one quart of milk into the double boiler. 

Scrape two ounces of Baker's chocolate and put 
into a granite sauce pan, with four tablespoonfuls 
of hot water and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Cook till smooth and glossy, then add the milk, 
which should be scalded. Add a little at a time. 
When the sauce pan is full and all has boiled up 
once, return to the double boiler. Serve for lunch 
with whipped crea'm. One-half water may be 
used, and one-half as much chocolate, if desired 
less rich. 

The Mixing of Batters. 

A true haUer is of such consistency as will al- 
low of pouring. It should not drop from the 
spoon, yet it must not run like a mere liquid. For 
this measure a scant measure of liquid to a full 
one of flour. A cream batter is the consistency of 
rich cream. For this use full measure of liquid 
to full measure of flour. 

A semi-dough or ch'op hatter, is one which v/ill 
not pour but will break from the spoon. For this 
take three-quarter measure of liquid to one meas- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 71 

ure of flour. A dough, to be stiff enough to knead 
and handle, should be pliable and soft, rather than 
hard. For this take half measure scant of liquid 
to one full measure of flour. 

Sift the flour before measuring. 

To "beat eggs separately" beat the yolks and 
whites in separate bowls. 

In mixing a batter, get th© materials called for, 
together, and measure them, then mix in the fol- 
lowing order, unless directions to the contrary are 
given : 

Sift the dry ingredients into the mixing bowl 
and mix well. Beat the eggs separately. Add 
th© milk to the yolks. Pour this liquor onto th© 
dry ingredients, and beat well. When light, add 
the butter, melted, or it is sometimes mixed with 
the dry flour at the first. This is supposing a 
small amount of butter, as in muffins, not for cake. 
Fold in the whites of the eggs the last thing. 

Baking Powders. 

The object of using soda and cream of tartar or 
baking powder in batter is to make them light. 
Bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar when dis- 
solved and heated, unite and form Eochelle salt, 
water and carbonic acid gas. The carbonic acid 
gas generated through the batter, rises and puffs 
it up, making a light, porous mass, in which con- 
dition w© bake it. The Rochelle salt is left in the 



72 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

batter. We bay© various kinds of baking powders. 
Ihe most are made from soda and tartaric acid 
soda and cream of tartar, soda and alum, or soda 
and acid phosphate. These all give off carbonic 
acid gas m varying proportions, but leave each a 
different residue in the batter. 

The cream of tartar baking powders are the 
most Tfholesome. The others are undesirable from 
a healthful point of view. 

Measure soda level, and the cream of tartar a 
little rounding, baking powder, rounding. 

Allow two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar to 
one teaspoonful of soda. 

When you wish to use baking powder in place 
oi soda and cream of tartar, given; use as much 
baking powder as the soda and cream of tartar 
added together. 

When baking powder is given and you wish to 
substitute soda and cream of tartar, use two-thirds 
cream of tartar, and one-third soda. 

Allow one level teaspoonful of baking powder to 
every cup of flour. 

Allow one teaspoonful of soda to one pint of 
sour, clabbered milk. 

la^es^ °'"' ^^''^P"""^"! °f s°da to one cup of mo- 
Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Floor, 1 quart. d *i , . . , 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. m -it'^Y '^^^^^P^^^^^l' 

RoL-;^ J Milk, about 1 pint, 

iiaking powder, 3 teaspoonfuls. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 73 

Sift the dry ingredients. Eub in the butter with 
the tips of the fingers till all the lumps disappear. 
Mix in the milk gradually, cutting it with a knife. 
Mix only a small part of the flour with each ad- 
dion of the milk. Mix as little as possible, and 
when just stiff enough to handle turn out on to a 
floured board. 

Toss it with the knife till floured all over, then 
pat it out with the hands till one-half inch thick. 
Handle as little as possible. Cut with a round 
cutter and place on a tin sheet and bake at once in 
a very hot oven. 

Stkawbekey Shoet Cake. 

Like the above, only substitute rich, sour cream 
for the milk, and use one scant teaspoonf ul of soda 
in place of baking powder. Or, like baking pow- 
der biscuit, only use one-half cup of butter in 
place of one tablespoonful. 

Bake in Washingtonpie plates thin, and put two 
together, or bake thick and when they come from 
the oven slip a thin, sharp knife between the cake 
and the pan and when hot, split the cake. 

For the filling. — Mash one quart of strawberries 
in an earthen dish, and mix in sugar till of a pleas- 
ant sweetness. 8et the dish in the oven till the 
fruit is scalded, no longer. Butter each half of 
the short cake, pour on some of the berries, cover 



74 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

with the top and pour the remainder of the fruit 
over it. Sprinkle with sugar and serve. 

Or, the berries may be used without the cooking. 

Orange Shoet Cake. 

Prepare the same as strawberry short cake, using 
oranges. Peel them and remove the thick under 
skin and seeds. Sweeten to taste and spread on 
the cakes. Fresh or canned peaches may be 
used, and raspberries as a filling for a short cake. 

Ceeam Waffles. 

Batter, V^ cup. ^loux, 1 pint. 

Cream, 14 pint. Salt, v, teaspoonful, 

Milk, 14 pint. Eggs, 4, 

Cream the butter, add the well beaten yolks and 
salt and beat two minutes or more. Now add the 
flour, milk and cream alternately making a smooth 
batter. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
dry froth and beat them in. 

Have the waffle iron hot and grease it with salt 
pork. Fill one half of it with the batter and 
brown it. Bake in all about two minutes. Serve 
with syrup; or butter and sugar. Some like the 
addition of cinnamon. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 75 

Sally Lunns. (Raised witli Yeast. ) 

Flour, 1 pint. Salt V. teaspoonfal.. 

Milk, 1 cup. Yeast k cup. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoonful to 2 table- Egge, I- 

;poonfuls. Butter, Itablespoonful. 

Scald and cool the milk and add the sugar, salt 
and yeast. Pour on to the egg well beaten and 
add to the flour, making a smooth batter. "Use 
the larger quantity of sugar, if for tea. Mix late 
in the forenoon, if for tea, and when risen double 
in bulk add the butter, melted, and fill muffin pans 
two-thirds full. Let this rise twenty or thirty 
minutes, and bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes. If for breakfast, mix the flour, yeast, 
Bait and milk, late in the evening before. In the 
morning add egg and melted butter. These may 
be baked on a hot griddle in muffinn rings, or m 
one large loaf like sponge cake, or in a pudding 
dish. 

Sally Lunns. (Raised with Baking Powder. ) 

Flour,! pint. Milk, K. cup. 

Baking powder, 1^2 teaspoonfuls. Eggs, Z. 

Lt, % teaspoonful. Butter, % to % cup. 
Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl. Beat the 
eggs separately. Add the milk to the yolks and 
pour on to the dry ingredients, beat well, add the 
butter melted, and beat again, then fold m the 



76 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

whites and fill muffin pans two-thirds full. Bake 
fifteen minutes in a hot oven. When the one- 
quarter cup of butter is used add a scant one- 
quarter cup of milk. 

Sponge Coen Cake. 

Corn meal, 1 cup, Pnff^^ ^/ 

J^lour, 2 cups. a„ - 

«3^/io 1 ^ ^ , Sugar, 1 cup. 

Soda, 1 teaspoonf ul. p„„„ o 

Salt,l " ^5f'^' .„ 

Kich sour milk, 2 caps. 

Cream the butter till very light. 

Beat the eggs separately. 
Beat the yolks and whites together, then scatter in 
the sugar, beating all the while. Sift the dry in 
gredients. Drop the creamed butter into the cen-" 
ter of he floui^ turn in the eggs and beat to a bat- 
ter m the middle. As this mixes add the sour 

Tnd iiSr"'^ '^^'^^^ ^""^ ^""^"'^ *^'' ^^*^"" ^^^^ 

^ Bake one-half hour in gem tins, rings, or Wash- 
mgton pie plates. * 6 . w abn- 

Less sugar and butter may be used when desired 
but keep the batter the same stiffness. 

Graham Muffins. 

Graham flour, 11/^ pints n^^ • 

White flour, 1 cup ^ „ °f P^^^^^^' ^ teaspoonfuls 
Sugar, H cup. p ^'"'^P^^^- 
Salt.lteaepoonful. -^^^'-^ 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 77 

Put the Graham flour into a bowl. Sift the re- 
mainder of the dry ingredients into it. Beat the 
eggs light and add the milk. Stir into the dry 
ingredients and beat well. Grease hot gem pans 
and fill them two-thirds full. Bake in a hot oven 
fifteen minutes. 

Spider Cake. 

Corn meal, % cup. Eggs, 1. 

Flour, 14 cup. Sour milk, H cupful. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoonful. Sweet milk, 1 cupful. 

Salt, Yi teaspoonful. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 
Soda, Yz teaspoonful, scant. 

Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl. Beat the eggs 
and add one half the sweet milk. Pour onto the dry 
ingredients. Beat well, then add the sour milk. 
Put the butter into a hot spider, and when hot 
pour in the batter. Pour the other one-half cup 
of the milk over the top ivithoid stirring. Bake 
twenty or thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Eye Muffins. 

Rry flour or meal, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaepoonfuls. 

White flour, 1 cup. Milk, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 14 oup. Egg, 1. 
Salt, Y2 teaspoonful. 

Sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs and 
add the milk to them and stir quickly into the dry 
mixture. Bake in hot gem or muffin pans twenty 
or thirty minutes. 



78 BEEAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

Beead. 

There is so much of interest and use to be said 
about bread that it is difficult to condense to the 
necessary limits of these pages. I will briefly 
outline the process which takes place in the raising 
and baking, and give a few general directions for 
making. 

Yeast is one of the lowest orders of vegetable 
organisms. It consists of minute microscopic cells, 
which under certain conditions multiply very 
rapidly. 

When yeast is added to warmed water and flour 
it causes the alcoholic fermentation. 

The yeast acts upon the starch, some of which is 
changed into sugar. 

CHO + HO-::CHO 

6 10 5 2 6 12 6 

starch. Water. Sugar. 

Then the sugar is changed into alcohol and car- 
bonic acid gas. 

Sugar ( 2C H O (Alcohol) 

6 12 6 I 20 O (Carbonic Acid Gas) 

2 

It Is for this carbonic acid gas, which causes the 
sponge-like condition of the bread, that we use 
the yeast. 

The carbonic acid gas generated through the 
dough, being lighter than the air rises, and in try- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 79 

ing to escape, expands the dough and puffs it up 
to two or three times its original size. The tenacity 
and elasticity of the gluten prevents the gas from 
escaping. The dough is baked and the cell walls 
stiffened in this condition and we have the light 
porous loaf which is so desirable. If the dough 
is allowed to get too warm or rise too much, the 
alcoholic fermentation changes to the acetic and 
sour bread is the result. 

CHO + = CHO + HO. 

2 6 2 2 4 2 2 

Alcohol. Acetic Acid. 

The temperature of the dough is very important. 
The best temperature for the first rising is 70° to 
75°, the maximum 90°. 

At a higher temperature the acetic acid is liable 
to be formed. After the dough has once begun to 
rise it will continue, though more slowly, though 
the temperature be lowered to 40°. 

The denser the dough the more yeast is needed 
and the more slowly it rises. 

A dough containing eggs and butter will rise 
more slowly than one which does not. Just before 
the baking of the bread the temperature may b© 
raised considerably without injury, as the heat of 
the oven so soon checks the rising. 

The first kneading of the bread is to mix the 
yeast thoroughly through the dough. The second 
kneading, that the bubbles of gas may be broken 
into small ones, and so make the bread fine grained. 



80 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

The object of baking is to kill the yeast, cook 
the starch, expand the carbonic acid gas and drive 
off the alcohol. Some of the starch on the out- 
side is decomposed by the intense heat, changing 
it to dextrine. This gives the sweet crust. 

The compressed yeast cakes, "Fleischmann's" or 
the "Vienna" or a nice home made yeast, are the 
best. A general rule is one-half cup of yeast to 
one pint of liquid. One-half cake of compressed 
yeast dissolved in one cup of luke-warm water is 
equal to one cup of yeast. Mix bread with milk 
or water. It is mostly a matter of taste or econ- 
omy which is the best. When milk is used always 
scald it and cool to 90°. A general rule is one 
scant measure of liquid, including the yeast, to 
three full measures of flour. Mix bread with a 
liquid at 90° in cool weather, with a cold one in 
summer. 

Knead till soft and smooth the first time, till 
soft and elastic the second. Use as little flour as 
possible during the second kneading. The bread 
should rise till doubled in bulk. It should not 
rise till it caves in or runs over the bowl. 

When risen, "cut it down" by cutting it away 
from the sides of the bowl and working it into the 
centre. Repeat this several times if necessary be- 
fore you are ready to shape it into loaves. 

Let rolls rise more than loaves before baking, 
for the heat soon penetrates to the centre and 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 81 

stops the rising, but a loaf will rise more after 
being put in the oven. 

The oven for baking should be hot enough to 
raise the inside of the loaf to 212° or between 400° 
and 500°. It should brown one tablespoonful of 
flour in five minutes. 

Allow fifteen minutes for the baking of single 
rolls. 

Thirty minutes for a sheet of rolls. 

Forty-fire and fifty minutes for a loaf. 

A loaf of bread when done should be brown all 
over, and give a hollow sound when hit with the 
knuckles. 

Spread the bread with melted butter before 
placing in the oven and it will have a very soft, 
brown crust, spread with water, or milk and sugar 
and it will be shiny. Brush with egg and it will 
have a golden brown, shiny crust. Wash the top 
of loaves with cold water when they come , from 
the oven and return till dry and they have a dark, 
shiny crust. 

If you wish a soft crust wrap the bread with a 
clean, thick linnen cloth while hot. If a crispy 
crust is liked, let the bread cool first. Keep it in 
a clean jar or box. This should be scalded and 
dried and freed from crusts and crumbs often. 



82 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

Yeast. 

Water, 2 quarts. Sa£;ar, • 3 cup. 

Hops, 2 tablespoonfuls. Salt, U cup. 

Raw potatoes, 6. Yeast, 1 cup. 

Put the water and hops on to boil. 

Grate the potatoes into an earthen bowl. 

Strain the hop water over them before they 
blacken. Place on the stove and boil up once, and 
then add salt and sugar. Let it cool till blood 
warm, and then add the yeast. Let it rise in a 
temperature between 70° and 90° for five or six 
hours, when it should look white and frothy. Turn 
into a stone jug, cork tightly, and keep in a cool 
place. 

Scald the jug and the stopper thoroughly each 
time the jug is emptied. 

White Bread. 

Milk, or water, or the two mixed, Yeast, Vz cup. 

1 pint. Flour, 6 cups or more. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul. If water is used, use 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. Butter, or lard, 1 tablespoonful. 

Scald the milk and cool to lOO^F, add sugar, salt 
and yeast. When shortening is used add it to the 
hot milk, or when water alone is used spread the 
shortening over the dough after the first kneading 
and it is put into the bowl. This is to prevent the 
hard, dry crust from forming on the top. Stir the 
flour into the liquid with a strong knife or perfor- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 83 

ated wooden spoon. Add flour till stiff enough to 
knead. The quantity will vary with the brand of 
flour used. 

Take the dough on to the board and knead till 
smooth and elastic. Return to the bowl, add the 
shortening if not already used. Cover with a 
thick bread cloth kept for the purpose, and a tin 
cover. Let it rise till doubled in bulk; cut it 
down, knead again, and shape into loaves. Place 
in buttered pans. Let it rise till doubled in bulk. 
Bake from forty-flve to sixty minutes. 

Graham Bread. 

In mixing remove one pint of the "white bread" 
dough when almost as stiff as a drop batter, and 
let it rise in another bowl. When very light and 
full of bubbles, dissolve one scant teaspoonf ul of 
soda in one-quarter cup of cold water, add this to 
one cup of molasses, and when well mixed add to 
the dough. Stir till smooth then add one cup of 
warm water. Now stir in Graham flour till stiff 
enough to handle. Flour the board and shape in- 
to loaves or biscuit. Do not knead or handle on- 
ly enough to get it into shape. Let it rise till 
double in bulk. Bake a little longer than the same 
size loaf of white bread. Diminish the heat of the 
oven when half done. 

One-fourth of a cup of sugar may be used in- 
stead of molasses. 



84 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

In that case omit the soda and add one cnp of 
water. 

White Mountain Eolls. 

Milk, 1 pint. Yeast, M cap. 

Butter, M cup. Whites of eggs, 2. 

Sugar, M cup. Flour, 7 or 8 cups. 
Salt, 1 teasponf ul. 

Scald the milk, and add butter, sugar, salt. Let 
it cool to 100°r and then add yeast and whites of 
eggs beaten. Add the flour till a stiff dough is 
made and knead till smooth. Let it rise till doubled 
in bulk. Then, knead again and shape into cylin- 
drical rolls, and place side by side in shallow pans. 
Let them rise till doubled in bulk, and bake thirty 
minutes in hot oven. 

Swedish Eolls. 

Make like White Mountain Eolls, and when 
ready to shape, roll out on a board till one-eighth 
inch thick. Spread with soft butter, and sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon. Eoll up like a jelly 
roll, and then cut across in one-half-inch slices. 
Let them rise till light and bake about ten min- 
utes. 

For the following receipts for Swedish Eolls 
note these directions: 

To freshen the butter, melt it, and when a little 
cool pour off the clear liquid from the salt, which 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 85 

settles at the bottom, or, wash it in cold water. 
When the butter is to be mixed with egg the first 
way is easier. 

Take the dough after the first rising, knead and 
mix thoroughly. 

Give each roll plenty of room on the tin so that 
they will not run together. Bake in a hot oven 
till nicely browned all over. 

GlFFLES. 



White bread dongh, i4 lb. Sugar, J4 tablespoonful. 

Freshened butter, VA oz. 



Take the white bread, (which should be mixed 
with milk), after the first rising, knead it a little, 
and then roll out, spread with the butter, fold up 
the edges, folding the butter in the inside. Fold 
it up like pastry and roll out three times, till the 
butter is well mixed into the dough. Then add 
the sugar and when well mixed roll out till one- 
eighth inch thick. Cut into eight equal square 
pieces. Place a bit of jelly a little way from one 
corner and fold the corner over it. Then roll up 
towards the opposite corner, making a crescent- 
shaped roll. Let them rise till nearly doubled, 
then brush over with one egg mixed with one 
tablespoonful of water, and sprinkle with sugar. 
Bake in a hot oven about ten minutes. They 
should be light brown when done. 



86 BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 

Soft Kringles. 

White bread dough, % lb. Freshened butter, 2 oz. 

Eggs, 2. Cardamon seeds, 2. 

Sugar, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls. 

Crush the cardamon seeds in the sugar till fine. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, and add the sugar and 
butter, with flour enough to make the mixture so 
stiff that it can be kneaded into the dough. Spread 
out the dough, and add the egg mixture by spoon- 
fuls and knead till there are no streaks of yellow. 
Koll into long sticks, and then shape into rings. 
Let them rise till doubled, and bake. 

EoLL Petits. 

Soft kringle dough, V2 lb. Sugar, 1 tablespoonfnl. 

Plain bread dough, H lb. 

Knead the two very thoroughly, and shape into 
small, round rolls. Let them rise till doubled, 
and bake. 

Prune Kringles. 

White bread dough, V2 lb. Sugar, Ys tablespoonf ul. 

Freshened butter, '/2 oz. 

Knead the butter and sugar into the dough. 
Chop six or eight prunes in four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, till quite flue. Chop the meat of the stones 
with the prunes. Spread this on the board. Roll 



BREAKFAST AND TEA DISHES. 87 

into sticks the size of the finger and eight inches 
long. Boll in the prunes and sugar till dusted all 
over, then fasten into oblong rings. 

Sugar Kringles. 

White bread dough, Vs lb. Blanched Almonds, 10. 

Freshened butter, Yz oz. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, 1 2 tablespoonf ul. 

Knead the butter and sugar into the dough. 
Eoll into sticks th© size of a finger and thirteen 
inches long. Chop the almonds and mix with 
sugar and cinnamon. Eoll the sticks in this mix- 
ture till dusted all over with nuts and sugar, then 
shape into oblong rings, with one end crossing at 
the middle to the opposite side. Let them rise till 
nearly doubled, and bake. 



PUDDINGS. 



Apeicot Pudding. 

Rice, 1 scant cup. Salt, 1 teaspoonful. 

Boiling water. 2 cups. Egg, 1. 

Butter, 1 tablespoonful.. Apricots, H can. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Crumbs, V^ cup. 

Wash the rice and cook in the double boiler one- 
half hour with the water, then add the butter, salt, 
sugar and ^^^ well beaten. Butter generously a 
three-pint charlotte russe mould, sprinkle with 
crumbs. Put in a layer of rice one-half inch thick, 
and cover with apricots drained from the juice, 
and so continue till the mould is full. Cover with 
buttered crumbs and bake twenty minutes. Serve 
with apricot sauce. Almost any sort of fruit may 
be substituted for the apricots. 

Prune Eice Pudding. 

Rice, Vi cup. Sugar, 1 tablespoonful. 

Boiling water, 3 pints. Prunes, V^ lb. 

Salt, V-z teaspoonful. 

Wash the rice and add salt, sugar and water, 
bake one hour. Have the prunes cooked till soft' 



PUDDINGS. 89 

and stoned, and stir into the rice. Cook slowly 
two Lours longer, or till the rice and prunes are 
cooked to a creamy consistency. Stir it often. 
Beat the whites of two eggs till stiff and dry and 
then beat in gradually two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, with a spoon. Press through a pas- 
try bag and garnish the top. Brown in a very 
slow oven. 

Cream Eice Pudding. 

Rice, scant hi cup, Milk, 3 pints. 

Sugar, % cup. Flavoring, 1 teaspoonful. 

Wash the rice and mix in a pudding dish with 
milk, sugar and flavoring. Bake in a moderate 
oven three hours. Stir it often, adding the milk 
from time to time, if all can not be put in at first. 
The thinly shaved rind of an orange or lemon gives 
a pleasant flavor. The pudding should bake slow- 
ly and be creamy when done. 

Delicate Pudding. 

Water, 1>4 cup. Salt, V2 saltepoonful. 

Fruit juice, 1 cup. Sugar, H to IV2 cups. 

Corn starch, 3 tablespoonfuls. Whites of eggs, 3. 

Boil one cup of water and fruit juice, moisten 
the corn starch with the one-fourth cup of cold 
water, and add the boiling syrup. Cook five min- 
utes, stirring all the time. Then add sugar and 



90 PUDDINGS. 

salt, and when dissolved, fold in the whites of the 
eggs beaten only till stiff and moist, iioi dry. 
Turn into a mould. Serve cold with boiled custard 
or fruit sauce. 

Fresh or canned fruit may b@ used. All 
kinds are nice. Only one-half cup of lemon juice 
will be needed, fill the cup with water. Lemon 
will take one and a half cups of sugar. Canned fruits 
less than fresh. 

Steamed Cabinet Pudding. 

Eggs, 3. Fruit, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoonfals. Stale cake, 3 pints. 

Milk, 3 cups. Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Use the butter to butter a three pint melon mould. 
The fruit may be currants, raisins and citrons 
mixed or candied, canned or fresh fruit. Sprinkle 
the mould with fruit and then break in the cake, or 
the mould may be lined with lady fingers, or maca- 
roons. Beat the eggs, add sugar, salt and milk and 
pour over the cake. Let the pudding stand an hour 
and steam one and one-fourth hours. Serve with 
creamy sauce. Stale bread may be substituted for 
the cake. 

Steamed Cottage Pudding. 

Flour, 2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1 cup. Melted Butter, 1 tablespoonful. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking Powder, 2 teaspoonf uls. 

Nutmeg, one-fourth. 



PUDDINGS. 91 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the eggs, 
and beat till very light, add the nutmeg and milk, 
and then the flour and baking powder, sifted 
together. Turn into a well buttered two quart 
mould. Steam one and one-fourth hours. Serve 
with a fruit sauce. 

Snow Balls. 

Eggs, 3. Baking Powder, 1% teaspoonftils. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Water, 3 tablespoonfuls. 

Flour, 1 scant cup. Grated yellow rind of 1 lemon. 
Lemon Juice, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar till very light. 
Add the water and rind and juice of the lemon. 
Beat the whites to a stiff dry froth. Turn these 
into the beaten mixture, and then sift in the flour 
and baking powder mixed together. Fold till well 
mixed. Turn into twelve or fifteen well buttered 
little earthen cups, and steam thirty minutes. 
When done roll the snow balls in powdered sugar 
and serve with strawberry sauce. 

Cbeam Pudding. 

Milk, 1 quart. Salt Vz teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 4. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Flour, 4 tablespoonfuls. Fruit Juice. 4 tablespoonfuls. 

Put three cups of milk into the double boiler. 
Beat the eggs ; moisten the flour and salt with the 
one cup of cold milk, being careful to make the 



92 PUDDINGS. 

mixture smooth. Turn into the milk when scalded, 
and when it thickens add the eggs, and cook five 
minutes. Stir rapidly at first. Turn into a deep dish, 
and sprinkle the sugar over the top, pour upon 
it the fruit juice. Serve when perfectly cold. 

Caramel Eice Pudding. 

Rice, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, IM quarts. Cinnamon, 1 inch stick. 

Salt, 1 teaspoonful. Sugar, Yz oup. 

Wash the rice and soak in cold water for two 
hours, drain off the water and place in the double 
boiler with the milk and cinnamon and cook two 
hours. 

Put the sugar in a small frying-pan and stir till 
it is brown and liquid. Pour this instantly 
into a plain warm mould, and turn the mould till 
the caramel coats all parts of it. Work rapidly 
for the sugar stiffens as soon as cold. 

Now add the salt and the beaten egg to 
the rice and stir well. Turn the rice into the 
caramel lined mould, cover it, set it in a pan 
of hot water and bake thirty minutes. After 
removing from the oven let it stand on the table 
for ten minutes. Turn out onto a platter and serve 
with a cold boiled custard. Flavor the custard 
with vanilla or caramel. 

Custard Souffle. 

Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls, scant. Milk, 1 cup. 

Flour, 2 tablespoonfuls. Eggs, 4. 



PUDDINGS. 93 

Scald the milk in the double boiler, cream the 
butter, add the flour and pour the milk on gradual- 
ly. Cook eight minutes, then add the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten, and set away to cool. When cold 
fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff dry 
froth. Turn into a slightly buttered pudding dish, 
and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. Serve 
at once with creamy sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Apkicot of Fruit Sauce. 

Fruit Jnice, 1 cup. Corn Starch, 1 teaspoonf ul. 

Sugar, H cup. Cold Water, Yz cup. 

Bring the sugar and fruit juice to a boil, moisten 
the corn starch with the cold water, add to the 
syrup and boil five minutes. Use any kind of fruit. 

Strawbeery Sauce. 

Mash one quart of fresh strawberries and pour 
over them one cup of sugar. Let the fruit stand 
two hours. Just before serving time turn into a 
granite or porcelain-lined kettle, and bring to a. 
boil, no more. 

Fruit Sauce. 

Put one pint of boiling water into a sauce pan. 
Moisten one tablespoonful of cornstarch with one- 
third cup of cold water and turn into the boiling 
water, boil ten minutes. Then add one pint of 
preserved fruit. If canned fruit is used boil one 

94 



PUDDING SAUCES. 95 

cup of sugar with the corn starch. If fresh fruit 
is used use a little more sugar. 

The fruit may be left whole, or the sauce 
strained. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Moisten one tablespoonful of cornstarcn with 
one-fourth of a cup of cold water and pour into 
one cup of boiling water. Boil two minutes. Add 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and one 
cup of sugar. 

Beat one egg very light. Pour the boiling sauce 
over it in a fine stream beating it with a spoon all 
the time. 

Nutmeg Sauce. 

Boil one cup of water, and add to it one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch, moistened with one 
cup of cold water, and when it boils add one cup 
of sugar, one fourth tablespponful of salt, and one- 
third of a grated nutmeg. Boil slowly one-half 
hour, add two tablespoonfuls of butter and serve. 

Egg Sauce. 

Eggs, 3. Extiact, 1 teaspoonful. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. 

Beat the eggs separately, and when the whites 



96 PUDDING SAUCES. 

are very stiff and light heat in the sugar a little at 
a time, with a spoon. When very light, add the 
extract and the yolks of the eggs and continue to 
beat till very light. Serve at once. 

Obeamy Sauce. 

Butter, Y2 cup. Cream, H cup. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla. 1 teaepoonful. 

Cream the butter and then stir in the sugar a 
little at a time and beat till very light. Then add 
the cream and extract, a little at a time. 

Just before serving, set the bowl into a pan of 
kot water, and as soon as the sauce is smooth and 
creamy, remove from the fir©. It should not be 
heated enough to melt the sugar. Omit the cream 
and do not cook it, and you have a nice cold hard 
sauce for puddings. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Put one-half cup of ^gar in the frying pan and 
when melted and light brown add one-half cup of 
boiling water and boil slowly ten minutes. 



DESSERTS. 



Atalanta Apples. 

Apples, 6. Cinnamon, one-inch stick. 

Sugar, 1 pint. Bread, 12 slices. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Jelly, V2 tumbler. 

Boil the sugar, water and cinnamon ten minutes 
and skim. Core and halve the apples. Cook 
them in the syrup till tender, watching them 
carefully, turning them often. As soon as tender 
remove from the syrup on to plates, and cook in 
the top of the oven for five minutes. Cut rounds 
from the bread and dip them into the syrup and 
place on a platter. Nearly cover these with a thin 
layer of jelly. Place one piece of apple on each 
slice of bread. Boil the syrup remaining in the 
sauce pan till ropy, and then pour over the ap- 
ples. Place a small piece of jelly on top of each 
apple. When cold garnish with whipped cream 
and bits of jeWj. 

Apple Snow. 

Baked sour apples, 3. Sugar. 14 cup. 

Whites of eggs, 1. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoonfals. 



Q-> 



98 DESSERTS. 

Strain the pulp of the apples, add sugar and the 
white of egg beaten to a stiff, dry froth. Beat all 
with a wire spoon till stiff and white, add the lem- 
on juic©, pile in a glass dish and serve with boiled 
custard. 

Boiled Custard. 

Milk, 1 pint. Salt, M saltspoonfnl. 

Yolka of eggs, 4. Flavoring, 1 teaspoonful. 

Sugar, 1/^ cup. 

Put IJ cups of milk into the double boiler. Beat 
the egg and sugar till creamy, add one-half cup of 
cold milk, and turn into the milk when scalded. 
Cook till the custard stiffens and will coat the 
spoon. Strain into a bowl, and when cold add 
salt and flavoring. 

For Caramel Custard. — Put the sugar into a fry- 
ing pan and when melted and brown add two ta- 
blespoonfuls of water and pour into the milk in 
the double boiler, and proceed as for plain custard. 

Fruit Tapioca. 

Pearled Tapioca, % cvip. ' Salt, 1 salts poonful. 

Boiling water, VA pints. Currant jelly, Vi tumbler. 

Sugar, % cup. 

Wash the tapioca and put into the doubl© boiler 
with the water, cook one hour, or till perfectly 
transparent, stirring often. Then add sugar, salt 



DESSERTS. 99 

and jelly. Stir till well mixed and then turn into 
a mould and let it get very cold. Turn into a glass 
dish, and serve with sugar, and plain or ^hipped 
cream. 

Or, use in place of the jelly, one-half cup of 
lemon juice, or any sort of acid fruit juice. 

Or, one cup of canned fruit, like apricots, 
peaches, or quinces. 

Or, one pint of ripe berries. Use more sugar as 
needed. 

Or, a pleasing variety is to make the fruit tapi- 
oca and flavor with lemon juice. Color pink with 
cochineal coloring. Put alternate layers of tapio- 
ca, sliced bananas, and ripe strawberries, into a 
mould. Serve with whipped cream. 

Lemon Tapioca. 

Make like the fruit tapioca, adding one cup of 
sugar, and in place of the jelly, add grated rind and 
juice of one lemon and the yolks of two beaten eggs. 
Beat the wdiites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, 
and then beat in gradually, two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Pile on top of the tapioca after 
it is put into the dish for serving, and brown 
slightly in a very slow oven. Let it get perfectly 
cold before serving. 



100 DESSERTS. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Gelatine, Yi bos. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Cold water,' 1 scant cup. Lf men juice, H cup, generous. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Cinnamon, 1 inch stick. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Shave just 
the yellow rind of the lemon. Steep with the cin- 
namon in the boiling water ten minutes. Add the 
gelatine, sugar and lemon juice and when dissolved 
strain through a napkin. 

Orange Charlotte. 

Sour Orange pulp and juice, 1 cop. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Sweet oranges, 4. Sugar, 2 cups. 

Gelatine. % box. Whites of egg, 4 to 6. 
Cold water, M cup. 

Line a two quart Charlotte Russe mould with 
sections of sweet oranges. Keep the sections 
whole. Remove the seeds carefully and stand 
the sections on end in two rows around the sides 
of the mould. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water two hours, 
add the boiling water, and when dissolved add 
sugar, orange juice and pulp. Set the pan into 
another pan containing ice and water. When so 
stiff that it will drop from the spoon, beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, and beat 
into the orange mixture. Beat with a wire spoon 
till it is very light, smooth and stiff. Then turn 
irto the mould lined with the sections of oraTiges. 



DESSERTS. 101 

Set it in the refrigerator for an hour or two. Serv© 
with a boiled custard made with the yolks of the 
eggs. 

Charlotte Eusse. 

Gelatine, H box. Vanilla, 2 teaspoonfols. 

Cold water, Y2 cup. Boiling water, V^ cup. 

Cream, 1 quart. Lady fingers, two dozen. 
Powdered sugar, 3i cup. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two 
hours. Whip the cream and skim off the whip in- 
to a tin pan. Set this pan into a pan of ice water. 
When all the cream is whipped, drain off all the 
cream which has settled in the pan. Sprinkle the 
sugar over the whipped cream, and add the vanilla. 
Pour the boiling water on to the soaked gelatine, 
and when dissolved strain over the whipped cream. 
Stir rapidly' but quietly, with the bowl of the 
spoon on the bottom of the pan. If the gelatine 
gets lumpy lift the pan from the water for a few 
moments, and if necessary, place it over a kettle of 
warm water for a moment till it becomes smooth 
again. When the gelatine in the bottom of the 
pan gets as stiff as a custard, fold in the cream on 
the top. Mix all gently, to keep the cream as light 
as possible. When so stiff it will only just pour, 
turn it into moulds lined with the lady fingers. 

Line the mould by standing the lady fingers on 
end against the side, with th© crust side next the 



102 DESSERTS. 

mould. Leave a little space between the fingers. 
Strips of sponge cake may be nsed instead of the 
fingers. 

Orange Bavarian Cream. 

Cream, 2 cups. Gelatine, Vz package. 

Oranges, 5. Cold water, V2 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Yolks of Eggs, 6. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two 
hours. Whip the cream till no more will whip. 
Skim the whip off into a pan, and put the un- 
whipped cream into the double boiler, Grate the 
rind of two oranges onto the gelatine. Squeeze 
the juice of the oranges. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs and the sugar till smooth and light, and add 
to the cream in the double boiler. When this 
thickens add the soaked gelatine, and when this is 
dissolved strain into a pan, set into a pan of ice 
water. Stir the orange juice into it, and continue 
to stir till as thick as a soft custard, then cut in 
the whijDped cream. Do this quickly and gently, 
to keep the cream light. 

When so stiff it will only just pour, turn into 
moulds. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. 

Pineapple, 1 can. Gelatine M box. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Cold water, % cup. 

Cream, 1 pint. ii cup of boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water two hours. 



DESSERTS. 103 

Chop the pineapple or use the grated fruit. Cook 
the pineapple with the sugar ten minutes. Whip 
the cream, and skim off the froth into a pan. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in the hot water, add to the 
pineapple and strain into a pan set in cold water. 
Mash through some of the fruit. Stir till as stiff 
as a thick custard, and then cut in the whipped 
cream. When so stiff it will only just pour, turn 
into molds. 

Strawbeery Bavarian Cream. 

Make like the Pineapple, substituting one quart 
of mashed strawberries for the pineapple. Put the 
berries through a sieve fine enough to keep back 
the seeds. Use raspberries, peaches and apricots 
in the same way. 

Directions for Freezing. 

Pound or chip the ice, till the pieces are no 
bigger than walnuts. First put a layer of ice into 
the freezer about four inches deep, then put in a 
layer of salt, then a two inch layer of ice, and so 
continue till the ice and salt comes above the mix- 
ture in the can. Allow three pints of salt to a 
gallon of cream. 

When th© mixture is frozen, take out the dasher 
and pack the mixture down tightly. If the cream 
is to stand several hours, draw off the water and 
add more salt and ice. 



104 DESSERTS. 

Ice Cream. 

Milk, 1 pint. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 2 caps. Cream, 1 quart. 

Flour, 2 tablespoonfnls. Flavoring, 1 tablespoonfol. 

Salt, 1 saltepoonf ul. 

Scald the milk in the double boiler. Beat the eggs, 
flour and one cup of sugar together till light and 
then turn into the milk. Stir constantly till thick- 
ened and then occasionally. Cook in all twenty 
minutes. When cold add the second cup of sugar, 
the cream and flavoring, and strain into the freezer 
and freeze. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Cream, 1 quart. Flavoring, 1 tablespoonful. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Scald the cream, and add the sugar. When cold 
add the flavoring and freeze. If the cream is very 
rich add 1 cup of milk. The whites of one or two 
eggs beaten till foamy may be used, in addition. 

The following flavorings may be used with either 
of the preceding receipts as a foundation : 

Chocolate Ice Cream : — 

Scrape one ounce of Baker's chocolate, and cook 
till smooth and glossy with two tablespoonf uls of 
sugar and one of boiling water. Add this to the 
custard or cream while in the double boiler. When 
cold add ^ tablespoonful of vanilla. 



DESSERTS. 105 

Macaroon Ice Cream : — 

Dry, roll and sift macaroons to make one pint of 
crumbs. Omit one cup of the sugar given for the 
foundation. For brown bread ice cream, use brown 
bread crusts prepared in the same way. 

Coffee Ice Ci^eam: — 

Use one cup of strong coffee, and measure the 
sugar generously. 

Fruit Ice Cream : — 

Us© six bananas sifted, or one pint of strained 
strawberry or raspberry juice, or one pint of grated 
pineapple, or one pint of sifted peaches or apricots. 

Caramel Ice Cream: — 

Put one scant cup of sugar into a frying pan and 
stir over the fire till the sugar turns liquid and 
brown, add this to the hot custard, in place of one 
cup of th© sugar. 

Oeange Sherbet. 

Orange Juice, 1 pint. Hot Wat«r, 1 cup. 

Gelatine, 2 tablespoonfuls. Sugar, 1 pint. 

Cold Water, 3 cups. Lemons, 1. 

Soak the sfelatine in one-half cup. of cold 
water. Dissolve in the boiling water, and add the 
remainder of the cold water, sugar and orange and 
lemon juice. Strain and freeze. For lemon sherbet 
use one cup of lemon, juice. 



106 DESSERTS. 

Strawberry SherbeTo 

Preserved frait, 1 pint. Water, 1 quart. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemons, 2. 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoonfal. 

Mash, and strain out tli© seeds, and proceed as 
for orange sherbet. Or, when fresh fruit is used 
make just the same as orange sherbet. 

Frozen Apricots. 

Apricots, 1 can. Sugar, i pmt. 

Water, 1 quart. Whipped cream, 1 pint. 

Mash up the apricots, and add sugar and water, 
and freeze. When nearly frozen, remove the 
dasher and mix in the whipped cream with a spoon, 
or use whites of three or four eggs beaten till 
frothy, and beat in just before the dasher is re- 
moved. 

* 
Fruit Sherbet. ( Prepared Quickly. ) 

Use one pint of any sort of fruit juice, made 
quite sweet with sugar, add shaved ice till stiff, 
and serve immediately. The "Gem" ice shave is 
the best for the purpose. 



]T IS ft ¥Km W0RTHY 0P cens'isER- 

A ation that meat roasted by a coal fire loses in weight 
one-third, while the depreciation in cooking by gas is only 
one-seventh, besides which, the meat will be found much 
more nutritious and healthful. 

Bread in the oven of a gas range will bake brown 
ev^enly, top and bottom, the loaves will be twenty-five 
per cent, larger than if baked in a coal range, and 
will always be found light, porous and wholesome. 




The Gas Light Company, with a view to introducing 
the most modern improvements for the use of gas either 
for lighting or cooking, have opened a sales department 
w^here they display a full and complete line of gas stoves, 
ranges, water heaters, laundry stoves, and burners of 
every description, which are for sale to their customers 
at manufacturers' prices. 

MINNEAPOLIS GAS LIGHT CO., 

; Masonic Temple. 



YERXA BROS. & CO., 



CARRY THE 

LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE 

LINE IN THE WEST, OF 




French Peas, 

Mushrooms, Olive Oil, 

Imported Pastes, 

Finest Extracts, 

Pure Cream Tartar, 

Best Baking Powders, 

Strictly Pure Spices, 

Chocolates, 

Cocoanuts. 




In Fact Everything that Is 
Needed for 



MINNEAPOLIS: 

COR. NICOLLET AVE. AND FIFTH ST., 

115 and 117 CENTRAL AVE. 

ST. PAUL: 

COR. CEDAR AND SEVENTH ST. 



The Latest and Best Kitchen Helps. 

USED AND RECOMMENDED BY MISS AMY BARNES IN HER 
LECTURES AND DEMONSTRATIONS. 

The Gem Freezer 



Is arranged to use the smallest pos- 
sible amount of ice in freezing. The 
pail is of finest white cedar, which 
does not shrink or fall apart. The 
gearings entirely covered, so that the 
fingers cannot be caught. For full 
description send for "Dainty Dishes 
for all the Year Round," by Mrs. S. T, 
Rorer, Principal Philadelphia Cooking 
School, and editor "Table Talk," con- 
taining 120 recipes for all ice creams, 
ices, sherbets, frozen fruits, etc. 

Mailed free on application to the 
m a n u fac tu r ers . 

Perfection Meat Cutter. 

The latest, best and most improved for family 
use. Cuts the meat and does not grind. Cannot 
get dull or out of order, requires no repairs, sim- 
ple to use, easy to clean and put together. By its 
use all cold pieces of meat, tough ends of steak, 
etc., usually wasted, can be made with little 
trouble into many of the tasty dishes found in 
leading hotels and restaurants. Descriptive cat- 
alogue with 60 recipes of plain and fancy dishes 
prepared by its use, mailed free on application. 

The Crown Ice Chipper. 

To chip ice fine to use in freezing ice cream, cooling wines, 
etc. Will reduce a 10 lb. block of ice to small uniform size 
like peanuts in a minute or two. Saves waste of ice. Price 
50 cents each. 

The Gem Ice Shave 

Is a small tool like a carpenter's plane with box attached in 
which the shaved ice, fine as snow, is collected when the 
shave is pushed over the block of ice in refrigerator. Use- 
ful for many purposes. Price 50 cents each. 

There is nothing made at ten times the cost that will do 
the same work as our Crown Ice Chipper and Gem Ice Shave. 
Full descriptive catalogue mailed free on application. 

AMERICAN MACHINE CO., 

Manufacturers Hardware Specialties, 

N. E. Cor. Lehigh Ave. and American St., Philadelphia, Pa 





ORANGE 

BLOSSOM 

FLOUR. 



EVERY 

SACK 

WARRANTED, 



iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

iiiiiiiiiiii<iiiiiii>iiiii>iiiii<iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiii 

i.llllllllllllll|l|!|llll1|l|IM|l|1|l|l|lll|ltlf!|[|lllll|{|lil|llltllilllllll 
lllllll lllllillllllllllll IIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII lllllllll |!|l|l|lllllllllllll» 

We guarantee the Orange Blossom to be 
the choicest flour made, as well as the cheap- 
est, taking all its properties into account. 



iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

lllllllllllllllillllHIII 

lllillllllllllill 
lllllllll 



lllllllllllllltllllllllllllll 
rill III iiii|i|fiiiiii(.l'l 

II I 11 I I IIIMIi III! 

1 1 1 1 III I 11 II ~ ~ 



li|i|ili|i|i|i|i|iliiililllii 

lilililiilillllliiiilli 

lilililllililil 



KINGSLAND, SMITH & CO, 



SUCCESSORS TO THE 



St. Paul Roller Mill Co. 



Our Orange Blossom Graham 

Is Far Superior to the Ordinary Graiiam. 
TRY IT. 



STRENGTH. 

SNOW FLAKE, Cream Tartar 13.20 

Horsfords Phospliate 13.10 

Royal 12.30 

State 12.00 

Dr. Prices 11.80 

Bulk and alum powders average. . . . 8.00 

This result is not published to prejudice people, but simply 
to confirm our repeated claims, etc. 



Is the Best Baking Powder Made. 

C. R. GROFF, St. Paul, Minn. 



I have used the Snow Flake when in St. Paul and Min- 
neapolis and can recommend it in every respect. 

Amy Barnbs. 

GROFF'S TRIPLE EXTRACTS ARE THE BEST MADE. 

Why purchase Eastern goods when you can obtain better ones 
that are made at home. 



DICKINSON'S 

HoiSB • Fnmsliai ® Dejarliit, 

Fourth, Fifth and St. Peter Streets, 

ST. PAUL, MINN. 



¥ 



E have made especial arrangements to keep in our 
Kitchen Department all utensils used by Miss 
Barnes during her lectures on cooking. 



MOULDS, Plain and Fancy, 

CUTTERS, LARDING NEEDLES, 

PASTRY and FROSTING TUBES, TIMBAL IRONS, 

FRENCH BONING KNIVES, 

WOODEN SPOONS, MEASURING CUPS, WHIP CHURNS, 

MEAT CHOPPERS, 

ICE CHIPPERS AND SHAVES, 

FRYING BASKETS, WAFFLE IRONS, ICE CREAM FREEZERS. 

ETC., ETC., ETC. 



A FULL LINE OF 

TINWARE, &RANITEWARE, WOODENWARE, 

AND 

Kitchen Utensils of all Sorts. 



Logan & Strobridge Iron Co. 



MANUFACTURERS OF ALL KINDS OF 




Bread and Cracker Mills, Coffee Mills, 

Farm and Plantation Mills, Builders' Hardware, 

House Furnisliing: Goods, Natural Gas Burners, 
Iron and Brass Castings, Etc. 

For catalogue and prices, address 

LOGAN k STROBRIDGE IRON CO., New Brighton, Pa. 



JEWEL GAS STOVES 

ARE MADE IN 

PRICES FROM $1.50 TO $37.50 



ASK 
FOR "THR 

JEWEL, 

IT I© 

BECAUSE IT IS 

HIGH GRADE, 

INTERCHANGEABLE, 

FOR SALE BY RIGHT. 

The St. Paul Gas Light Co., 

ST. PAUL, MINN. 

Minneapolis Gas Light Co., 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN, 




^lHI^ LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 488 312 3 § 






