






/% 





























"^^ AV 







.'••. "^o J^ ,"',% " J* ... % '" .<" <* 



< "ov*^ 



* o .* o « *0 






4 O 









/;:^•i^^r':^<^^c^>^.A*^%^^ 



' "w" .• 






'^'^^ •♦^* /\ "-^Rv-^^ % -W- <^''\ « 
















^ c-y' .'jc^wa:- «,. ..^^ .' 






■>"\ '^^S ^^'\ •M-" J'X -m: ^^'\ -^ 



^ BOOK O^ 



TIDIED I^ECIPES 



< 




tyO 



A 



x^ 






The Turnpike road to peoples' hearts, I find, 

Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 

—Peter Pinder. 



Now good digestion wait on appetite and health on both." 

— Shakespeare. 



A • Book • of' • TrieJd ^ Rejgipe)^. 



BREADS AND MUFFINS, 



BREAD. 

Take 4 quarts of sifted flour and one teacup of yeast; a pinch of 
salt; and wet with warm milk and water stiff enough to knead. Work 
it on the board until it requires no more flour. If made at night, the 
bread will be light enough to work over and put in pans early in the 
morning. This quantity will make two large loaves. 

One-third of the lump may be taken for rolls, which can be made 
by working in butter the size of an egg, and setting it aside to rise again ; 
when light the second time, make out in oblong shapes, cover them with 
a cloth, and let them rise again. 

As soon as they break apart, bake them in a quick oven. They will 
not fail to be nice if they are baked as soon as they seam. This is the 
great secret of white, flaky rolls. 

Two or three potatoes will improve the bread. 

Good housekeepers always have the flour sifted in readiness for use, 
and never use it in any other way. — Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough. 



4 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

AUNT MARY'S GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take 2 teacups of the batter after it is raised for the wheat bread, 
thinning it with a little warm water, and 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
for one loaf. Stir in the Graham flour until quite stiff; let it rise again, 
then stir, adding a little more flour if necessary, and put in tins ready for 
baking; let it rise again, and bake slowly. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of bread dough after raising; one-half cup of molasses; 2 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar; one-half teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in hot water. Stir soft with Graham flour, and let it rise once. 

— Mrs. John C. Coonley. 

STEAMED BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of corn meal; 1 cup of Graham flour; 3 cups of sour milk; 
one-third cup of molasses; teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the molasses; 
a little salt. Steam four hours or longer. — Mrs. Lyman Baird. 



MUFFINS. 

One-half cup of sugar; one-half cup of milk; 2 eggs; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter; 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flour enough 
to make like cake. — Mrs. E. P. Savage. 



ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

One pint of warm water, dissolve one-half cake of compressed yeast; 
1 pint of milk. No salt. The beaten whites of 4 eggs; flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Set it to rise over night, and bake in rings on but- 
ered griddle. Toast cold ones next morning. 



BREADS AND MUFFINS. 



GRAHAM MUFFINS. 



One pint of Graham flour; 1 pint of wheat flour; 2 eggs, beaten 
light; 1 tablespoonful of melted butter; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; a 
pinch of salt; 2 teaspoonful s of baking powder; milk enough to make 
a thick batter. — Mrs. Luther Laflin Mills. 



CRUMPETS. 



One quart of milk; one-half yeast cake, dissolved in warm water, or 
4 tablespoonf uls of yeast ; 1 tablespoonful of lard ; 1 tablespoonful of 
butter; one-half teaspoonful of salt; one-fourth teaspoonful of soda, 
sifted twice, with the salt in a quart of flour. Mix well at night. Beat 
up hard in the morning, and let it rise for half an hour. 

Half fill heated and buttered muflfin rings, on a heated and greased 
griddle, with the batter, and bake on the top of the stove, turning once. 
Kun a sharp knife around the inside of each ring, and loosen the crum- 
pet. Eat hot. Cold ones left over are nice split, toasted and buttered. 
— Mrs. John H. Prentiss. 



MARYLAND SPOON CORN BREAD. 

Put 1 quart of milk on the fire, and when it comes to a boil stir 
in 4 large kitchen spoonfuls of white corn meal. Let it cook until 
very thick, ' stirring constantly. Put it aside to cool, then add 3 
eggs which have been beaten, with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and a 
big pinch of salt. Beat in 1 tablespoonful of butter while the corn is 
hot. Bake in a buttered dish for thirty-five minutes, and serve imme- 
diately. A delicious breakfast bread. — Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough. 



6 A BOOK OF TRIED KECIPES. 

BEAT, OR VIRGINIA BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of flour; 2 tablespoon fuls of lard; 1 teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix with water and a little milk. Beat, or work until the dough 
blisters. Cut out, and stick with a fork. Good for luncheon ; best hot 
for breakfast. — Mrs. Joseph M. Rogers. 



BEEAKFAST DISHES. 



FRITTERS. 



One pint of milk; 4 eggs (yolks beaten with milk, whites beaten 
separately); 1 teaspoonful of salt. Fry in hot butter or lard. 

— Mrs. L. L. Mills. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Take 12 ears of corn, score each row lengthwise with a sharp knife, 
and then scrape the inside of the kernels from the cob with the back 
of the knife. Beat 2 eggs into this, and season with salt and pepper 
to taste. Have a little butter hot in a frying pan, and fry quickly, 
8 or 10 spoonfuls at a time, taking care not to burn them. Serve 
immediately. 

If the corn is very dry a few tablespoonfuls of milk may be added, 
but never flour. — Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough, Jr. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



WAFFLES. 

One quart of sour milk; 4 eggs; batter the size of an egg; 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda. Melt the butter, and add flour sufl]cient to make the 
batter as stiff as that of pan cakes. — Mrs. E. P. Savage. 



TAPIOCA BREAKFAST CAKES. 

A teacup of tapioca soaked over night in a quart of water. In the 
morning, before mixing, cook gently a few moments until all lumps are 
dissolved. Add a cup of milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, a- saltspoonful of 
salt, and 1 scant teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted into a coffee 
cupf ul of flour, added just before frying on the griddle. 

— Mrs. Wm. C. Nichols. 

OMELET. 

Take 3 eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately. To the yolks, 
after they are beaten, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a teacupful of rich 
cream, in which a heaping teaspoonful of flour has been smoothly rub- 
bed. Lastly, stir in the whites, which have been beaten as for cake. 
Have ready a spider, in which has been melted a tablespoonful of lard, 
and which is as hot as can be without burning; pour in the mixture, and 
cook to a rich brown. — Mrs. E. Y. Case. 



HAM OR PARSLEY OMELET. 



Prepare omelet as above, adding a little finely chopped ham or 
parsley after it is in the spider, and fold together when delicately 
browned. 



A BOOK OF TKIED RECIPES. 



SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

Turn boiling water on eggs, and set on the back of the range for 
ten minutes. They will be cooked to a jelly, and be very digestible. 

— Mrs. Wyllys Warner. 



RICE CORN BREAD. 

One quart of light yellow corn meal ; 1 quart of cold boiled rice ; 
3 eggs; butter the size of an egg; a little salt. Scald the meal most 
thoroughly, and leave to swell 10 minutes, covered. Add salt, butter 
and eggs, separately beaten, then gently stir in the rice. The mixture 
should not be thicker than pound cake. Bake in flat tins 20 minutes. 
Do not expect it to brown. — Mrs. E. W. Blatchford. 



COD FISH BALLS. 



One pint of codfish minced fine and scalded ; 1 quart of hot boiled 
potatoes mashed fine (better put through a potato sifter); mix with fish; 
add butter, one-quarter of a cup, al)out as much cream, a little pepper 
and two well beaten eggs. Keep all as hot as possible. Beat together 
with a fork. Roll lightly in flour and fry like doughnuts in very hot 
lard and beef drippings, half of each. — Miss E. S. L. Chase. 



LUNCH DISHES. 



DRY STEW OF OYSTERS. 

Put oysters in a sauce-pan, and let them come to a boiling point very 
quickly ; skim off substance which rises to the surface ; season with salt 
and pepper; add a little butter; boil for one-half a minute and serve. 

— H. M. Kinsley. 

MARYLAND FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain the liquor entirely off the oysters; then lay them on a brown 
linen towel, and dry them. Have frying pan hot, and put in plenty of 
lard and butter in equal quantities. 

Break an egg, and take a plate and beat it up, yellow and white 
together; put some pepper in; then dip oysters lirst in egg, then in 
cracker dust, and when the frying pan with butter and lard is scalding 
hot, fry them until they are a light brown color, that is until they begin 
to brown. Be careful and don't fry them too much. — H. M. Kinsley. 



BROILED CODFISH. 

Soak and cut in pieces two or three inches square; dry and broil; 
after broiling put in a cloth, and pound with a mallet till the fibres are 
loosened and separated. Pour on boiling water and strain off. Put on 
butter and set in the oven a little while before serving. 

— Mrs. M. Scuddek. 



10 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

Boil a large white fish; pick it up fine; make a sauce of a quart of 
milk, a little thyme, a few sprigs of parsley, a little onion; simmer 
together till well flavored ; wet 2 tablespoonsf uls of flour, and stir in 
with a half cupful of butter until it thickens; then strain it on the 
yolks of 2 eggs; season with pepper and salt. Put some of the sauce 
in a pudding dish, then a layer of fish, and so on until the dish is full, 
putting sauce on top ; cover with rolled crackers ; brown in the oven. 

— Mrs. Abu ah Keith. 

EGGS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

For 6 eggs toast as many pieces of bread (cutting off the crusts); 
dip them into boiling water; lay on a warm platter, and cut in half. 
Boil eggs from 5 to 7 minutes, shell them, cut in two, and lay half an 
egg on each piece of bread. Make a sauce of 1 pint of milk; butter 
the size of an egg-, 1 tablespoonful of fiour stirred smooth in a little 
cold water, and added when the milk and butter are boiling. Season 
to taste with pepper and salt. Pour this sauce over the eggs, and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs browned in butter. Serve hot. 

— Mrs. M. Blanke. 

ROAST QUAILS. 

After the birds are picked, let them lie in salt and water until the 
strong odor leaves them. Stuff them; lay two slices of bacon on their 
breasts; tie them closely, binding the bacon on and the legs and wings 
down, with string. Put a little water into the pan, and place in a 
moderate oven for forty minutes, not longer; remove strings, and serve 
with bacon on the platter. (See next page for stufling.) 



LUNCH DISHES. 11 

STUFFING FOR BIRDS. 

Have good bread, moderately stale, crumb it fine and ponr a little 
water on it. Don't soak it. For 6 quails take 2 cupfuls of bread 
crumbs. Take 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, put in a pan, melt it, fry 
half an onion in it, a sprig of parsley, 2 cloves, 4 allspice, a blade of 
mace, 2 black peppers, and some celery seed (unless you have fresh 
celery). Skim out the spices after 15 minutes; pour the butter over 
the bread, add pepper and salt if necessary. This is good stuffing 
for everything except ducks. A spoonful of chopped raw celery is good 
added to the staffing, or a couple of small oysters in each quail improves 
them. — Miss Lucy McDowell. 

TO BROIL SAUSAGE. 

Take off the skin and flatten the link half its thickness; put into a 
double wire and broil carefully ; baste once with butter and serve. 

— H. M. Kinsley. 

STUFFING FOR ROAST CHICKEN. 

Chop apples, or ripe pears; season with bread crumbs; mix a small 
quantity of nutmeg, salt and butter. All bread crumbs should be of a 
light stale loaf, free from crusts, not hard or soaked bread. 

— Mrs. Thomas Howard. 

SALMON JELLY. 

Make clear lemon jelly according to any good recipe, omitting sugar. 
Add salt and a very little white pepper if desired. Fill mould and drop 
in nice pieces of salmon. It makes a pretty salad to use small moulds, 
placing in the bottom of each a slice of lemon. Garnish with tiny 
lettuce leaves, and place on each dish a spoonful of mayonaise. 

— Mrs. Adolph Heile. 



12 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

JELLIED TONGUE. 

Boil until done a large smoked beef tongue, saving a pint of the 
liquor; remove the skin, allow it to get perfectly cold, and slice as for 
the table. In half a pint of water dissolve thoroughly 2 ounces of 
gelatine; carefully take from a teacupful of browned veal gravy all the 
grease, stir in a small tablespoonful of sugar, 1 of burned sugar to 
color the jelly, and 3 of vinegar, then the liquor in which the tongue 
was boiled. Mix in well the dissolved gelatine, then a pint of boiling 
water. Strain through a jelly bag. As soon as it begins to set, pour a 
little jelly into the bottom of the mould, add a layer of tongue, then 
more jelly, until it is full. Set in a cold place to harden. When 
wanted, dip the mould an instant in hot water, and turn into a garnished 
dish. — Mrs. W. Treese Smith. 



VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of chopped veal, one-half pound of salt pork, 6 Bos- 
ton crackers rolled fine, 1 egs; beaten. Pepper and salt to taste; a little 
thyme if desired. Mix thoroughly. Form into a loaf. Bake 3 hours, 
basting frequently. — Mrs. Lyman Baird. 



MUTTON A LA CREOLE. 

Procure the breast of a mutton, or lamb, if mutton is too fat; chop 
into one-half inch square pieces; put in sauce pan with one-half pound 
butter, and fry all to a nice brown color; mix in 1 cupful of flour, and 
pour over it 1 gallon of hot stock; let it boil 2 hours; add 1 can toma- 
toes; one-half pound rice previously cooked; one-half an onion cut fine 
and fried in butter; a little celeiy cut tine. Season with 1 teaspoonful 
of curry powder; salt and pepper to taste. — Kinsley. 



OKOQUETTES. 

RICE CROQUETTES WITH JAM. 

Boil the rice soft, to 1 pint of rice add 2 eggs; mould in oblong 
rolls; cut open with a thin pointed knife; take out a little rice, and fill 
with jam; roll in sifted cracker, using as little cracker as possible; fry 
in fresh lard ; then powder with sugar. Makes a nice lunch dish. 

— Mrs. Ed ward F. Comstock. 



LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Mince the meat of the lobsters fine; season with salt and pepper. 
Melt a piece of butter in a sauce pan; mix with it 1 tablespoonful of 
flour; add lobster and a little finely chopped parsley; add a little stock 
also, and let it come to a boil. Kemove from the fire and stir in the 
yolks of 2 eggs. Spread this mixture on a platter, and when cold mould 
into croquette shapes. Dip carefully in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs, and fry to a rich brown color in hot lard. 



SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One pound salmon, boiled 20 minutes and chopped fine. Add one- 
third as much bread crumbs, 1 egg, melted butter size of walnut, 1 
tablespoonful Worcester sauce, a little red pepper and a little salt. Add 
1 cupful of soup stock. Shape and dip in egg, then in bread crumbs, 
and fry in hot lard. — Mrs. Geo. M. High. 



14 A BOOK OF TKIED RECIPES. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One-fourth pound of butter, one-haif pint of sweet cream, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, one-fourth pint of chicken 
stock, one-fourth can of mushrooms, the juice of half a lemon. Boil the 
chicken, let it cool, cut the meat in small pieces and chop the mush- 
rooms. Melt the butter in saucepan, stir in flour, cream and stock, 
stirring until it boils; take it off the fire, add stock, seasoning chicken 
and mushrooms. Spread thin on a platter. When quite cold make in 
form of a peak. Dip in whipped egg, then cracker crumbs and fry in 
boiling lard. Too many put in at one time will cool the lard. 

— Mrs. Rodney Granger. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. ' 

Mince very fine 1 cold chicken and 2 sweet breads previously par- 
boiled (a little rice may be substituted for the sweet breads). Season 
with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg (a very little onion). Take 1 
tumbler of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
a little salt. Mix and boil, then stir in the minced meat, also some of 
the broth in which the chicken was cooked. When cold take a spoonful 
of the mixture and roll into shape. Dip them in the beaten yolk of an 
egg and cracker crumbs. Drop into hot lard (in frying basket), cook a 
light brown. This recipe makes one and a half dozen croquettes. 
(Excellent.) — Mrs. John H. Prentiss. 



SOUPS. 

STOCK. 

Stock is the basis of all soups or sauces. It is really the juice of 
meats extracted by long and gentle simmering. A shank, or other meat 
bones, the trimmings from a dinner roast, or the carcass of a turkey or 
chicken will do to prepare a stock. Put cold water in your pot enough 
to cover the bones, add a sliced onion, carrot, a celery stalk, salt and a 
few whole peppers, or- if you intend to keep the stock for several days 
omit all vegetables and spices. Let it come to a boil, skimming off any 
substance which may arise to the surface, let it boil gently for several 
hours. A little hot water may be added from time to time to keep the 
necessary amount. It should then be strained and kept in an earthen 
vessel, never in a metal one, unless well tinned. This stock is then 
ready to be used for any soup or sauce. — Kinsley. 



CONSOMME SOUP. 
Chop 1 pound of lean beef, mix with it a sliced onion and carrot, 6 
eggs (shells and all), and a little salt and pepper, mix thoroughly with 
3 quarts cold stock, and put in a sauce pan on the range to let it 
come to a boil, skimmino: from time to time so that it mav not burn. 
After boiling very slowly for 15 minutes strain through a napkin, and 
your Consomme will be ready to serve. If attention is paid, this soup 
should be as clear as champagne. From this Consomme a variety of 
soups can be made. — Kinsley. 



16 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

AMBER SOUP OR BOUILLON. 

A large soup bone, 1 chicken, a small slice of ham, a soup bunch 
or an onion, 2 sprigs of parsley, half a small carrot, half a small pars- 
nip, half a stick of celery, 3 cloves, pepper, salt, a gallon of cold water, 
whites and shells of 2 eggs, and caramel for coloring. 

Let the beef, chicken and ham boil slowly for 5 hours; add the 
vegetables and cloves to cook the last hour, having jnst fried the onion 
in a little hot fat, and then in it stick the cloves. Strain the soup into 
an earthen bowl, and let it remain over night. Next day remove the fat, 
take out the jelly, avoiding the settlings, and mix into it the beaten 
whites of the eggs, with the shells. Boil quickly for half a minute, 
then placing the kettle on the hearth; skim off carefully all the scum 
and whites of eggs, not stirring the soup itself. The soup may then be 
put away, and reheated just before serving. Add then a large table- 
spoonful of caramel, as it gives it a richer color and also a slight flavor. 
This soup may be made in a day. After it is strained add the eggs, and 
proceed as in recipe. However, if it is to be served at a company din- 
ner it is more convenient to make it the day before. — Lockby. 



TOMATO SOUP, WITHOUT STOCK. 

One-half pound of good butter. Let it simmer. Add the heart of 
an onion sliced, 6 cloves, 6 allspice, a small piece of red pepper, a 
blade or two of mace and a few sprays of parsley. When the onion is 
well browned add a quart of tomatoes chipped, or a can of tomatoes if 
it is in winter time. Cook slowly for an hour. Strain, and add a table- 
spoonful of well branned flour made smooth in cream — not enough 
cream to make the soup white. Of course, if yoa have stock, a cupful 
improves the soup, or 2 teaspoonfuls of beef extract is a good substitute 
for stock in any vegetable soup. 



SOUPS. 17 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Make stock for soup of any fresh meat or salt pork. In another 
kettle boil black beans 2 hours, strain through a colander into the soup, 
adding cloves, summer savory, sweet marjoram, pepper and salt. When 
ready for the table add after straining a second time, sliced lemon, hard 
boiled eggs cut in slices. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

One and a half pounds of lean veal, chopped; 1 moderately young 
chicken, jointed; add 2 quarts of cold water, and simmer until meat is 
cooked; remove the breast of chicken, and all best part of meat; return 
the bones to the pot, and boil hard for an hour; strain, and let cool over 
night. (The chicken will make a dozen croquettes or a nice salad, and 
the soup is just as good without it.) About an hour before using the 
soup, skim off all the fat, and put the "stock," which should be a jelly, 
into a kettle. Let it slowly come to a boil, salt and pepper it, add a 
cupful and a half of good sweet cream, and 2 teaspoonf uls of flour made 
smooth in a little of the cream. Do not boil it now, for fear of curdling. 
Have ready a cupful of celery chopped fine; stew it for half an hour in 
a little salted boiling water; drain off the water, and add celery to soup. 
Have a teaspoonful of cracker crumbs in the bowl, and serve immedi- 
ately, before the crumbs are soaked. 

No. 2. 

Cut 3 heads of celery into half-inch pieces, and cook in 1 quart of 
boiling water until soft, then mash in the water. Cook 1 dessertspoonful 
of chopped onion, with 1 quart of milk, in oatmeal boiler 10 minutes, 
and add the celery. Rub through a strainer, and put on to boil again. 
Cook 1 tablespoonful each, butter and flour, together, until smooth, and 
stir into the boiling soup one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-half salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Boil 5 minutes, strain and serve. — Mrs. J* C. D. 



IS A BOOK OF TRIED KECIPES. 

DROP DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

One coffeecnp of flour; scald with soup; beat bard. Wbeu cold, add 
an egg, and beat hard. Dip spoon in hot soup, and drop a dumpling 
size of white walnut. Boil, without cover, 2 minutes in the soup. 

— Mrs. Geo. M. High. 



CORN SOUP. 

One can of corn; 1 quart of milk; 1 cupfulof cream; butter, size 
of an egg, mixed with a spoonful of flour. Beat up 2 eggs, and add 
after taking off. — Mrs. J. R. Case. 



CORN SOUP. 

Take 6 ears, or 1 pint of sweet corn, and put in 1 quart of water. 
Boil 2 hours, add 1 quart of milk, salt and pepper to taste. One table- 
spoonful of flour, made smooth in milk; add to the soup, with a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Cut the okra in one-half inch pieces, and boil tender in chicken 
stock; add a cupful of boiled rice, the meat of a chicken cut fine. 
Season with salt and pepper. Canned okra can be used, but must not 
be boiled. 

BEAN SOUP. 

To a dish of baked beans, add a can of tomatoes, a little water or 
stock, and a meat bone of any kind if convenient. Boil slowly 3 or 4 
hours. Season to taste. Strain, and serve with fried bread, nice. 



SOUPS. 19 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Wash thoroughly one-half pint peas, then shell. Boil the pods, merely 
covered with water, until tender; drain in a colander, and put half the 
peas in the same water and cook until soft; strain again, add butter size 
of an egg, 1 cupful of milk, salt and pepper, and 1 cupful of whole peas 
previously boiled. This soup can be made without using the peas. 

— Mrs. E. S. Chesbrough. 



CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

Clean your chicken thoroughly, and put on in cold water, let it boil 
until tender, adding from time to time hot water or stock to make the 
amount of soup wanted When the chicken is done, strain the soup, 
add one-half pound boiled rice, cut the chicken meat in suitable pieces, 
and put in the soup. Season with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES. 



ESCALOPED POTATOES. 

Slice thin, raw potatoes enough to fill a moderate sized pudding dish. 
Cover bottom of dish with thick layer of potatoes. Season with bits of 
butter, pepper and salt; dredge with flour. Then potatoes, etc., until 
the dish is full. Fill the dish with milk, and bake, covered, in a slow 
oven for 3 hours. Remove cover, and brown. Some consider a little 
chopped onion an improvement. — Mrs. A. Heile. 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Cut a thin slice from stem end of large smooth tomatoes. Remove 
the ends and top pulp; mix with the pulp an equal amount of cracker 
crumbs. Season to taste with salt, pepper and sugar. Chop an onion 
very fine, a teaspoonful for 6 tomatoes. Fill the cavity with the mix- 
ture, heaping it in the center. Sprinkle a little cracker dust on the top 
and dot with bits of butter. Bake three-fourths of an hour, or until 
brown. A small quantity of cooked meat may be used with the crumbs. 

— Mrs. L. H. Foster. 

BRUSSEL SPROUTS WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Parboil the sprouts, then steam with soup-stock, butter and a little 
nutmeg. Cut a cross on the chestnuts, boil until done, shell them, and 
steam with water, butter and a little sugar. Season, with chestnuts in the 
center of the dish, sprouts surrounding them. — Johanna Lups. 



VEGETABLES. 21 

A NICE WAY OF COOKING SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil sweet potatoes until soft, then slice, and dip in beaten egg^ and 
then in crackers rolled very fine. Fry in butter until brown, and pour 
a drawn butter over them. — Mrs. Francis Bradley. 



SOUTHERN WAY OF COOKING SWEET POTATOES. 

Take ordinary sized potatoes, boiled until nearly ready for use. 
Then slice into a baking dish, putting a very little salt on each layer. 
Take a piece of butter the size of a small hen's egg, melt and pour over 
with a scant tablespoonful of sugar sprinkled on top. Bake a half hour 
in not too hot an oven. — Mrs. J. M. Rogers. 



. TOMATOES AND RICE. 

Put into a sauce pan, butter the size of an egg, and when it bubbles 
sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of flour. Stir in one quart, or a little less, 
of stewed tomatoes, and when quite hot, add a cupful of fresh boiled 
rice and a half teaspoonf ul of soda. A little sugar to the tomatoes when 
cooking is an improvement. — Mrs. Marshall Scudder. 



SPINACH. 

Put the spinach, after it is well picked and washed, into boiling 
water with a little salt, and boil uncovered for 5 minutes; then drain in 
a colander, pour over it some boiling water, press out water, and cut 
with a knife (not chop fine). For 1 peck spinach, have ready scant 
pint of good strong beef broth, into which put crumbs of 2 soda crackers, 
1 small onion, some butter, and when it boils add spinach. Season with 
pepper and salt, and let it simmer half an hour. 



22 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

WARMED UP POTATOES. 

Slice or chop up boiled potatoes. Put on the fire, in a sauce pan, 
a little milk. When boiling, add a small teacupf ul of butter, into which 
rub a teaspoonful of flour. Add potatoes, and cook about 10 minutes. 

— Mrs. Henry Bausher. 

WIRSING, OR SAVOY CABBAGE. 

Cut in small pieces, removing the thick stems Boil 10 minutes, 
drain well, and press out all the water; add beef broth, butter, salt and 
a very little nutmeg, and cook slowly. Time, 1 hour. 

— Mrs. J. B. Meyer. 

ESCALOPED ONIONS. 

Boil onions until tender, having changed the water twice. Pick in 
pieces, prepare as oysters in a baking dish, with cracker crumbs. 
Moisten with mili^. Season with butter, pepper and salt. 

— Miss A. M. Baird. 



SALADS. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take the skin and bones from two cold boiled chickens, cut the meat 
in regular, oblong shaped pieces, and put in an earthen vessel. Cut one 
dozen celery, after being thoroughly cleaned, in like size pieces, and 
mix with the cut chicken. Rub the 3^olks of six hard boiled eggs very 
fine, season with one-half teaspoonf ul of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
pepper, 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard ; stir in the yolks of four raw 
eggs. Have one-half ])int of white vinegar boiling, put in this vinegar 
one-half pound good butter. When melted, stir in the prepared eggs, 
and then set this mixture aside to cool. If too stiff when cold, add 
enough sweet cream to make it right. Mix then with the chicken and 
celery, and keep cool, ready for use. — Kinsley. 



POTATO SALAD. 

Prepare dressing as follows, and have cold ready for use. Yolks of 
3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 cupful of 
vinegar, one-half cupful of water, butter size of an egg, scant teaspoon- 
ful of salt, small spoonful of mustard, a little pepper. Slice cold boiled 
potatoes very thin, put a layer in the salad dish. Scatter over this a 
pinch of chopped parsley, a trifle of grated onion, and a few pieces of 
beet cut in dice shape. Over this put a little of the dressing, and re- 
peat until the dish is full. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and bits of 
beet. A teaspoonful of grated onion, one beet, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley are enough for an ordinary sized dish. 

— Mes. E. F. Comstock. 



24: . A BOOK OF TRIED KECIPES. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take the lobster out of the shell, wash in cold water and put in 
vinegar for about 5 minutes,, strain and cut in regular sized pieces, cut 
a few pickles the same size pieces as the lobster, and a few hard boiled 
eggs cut the sanie way, so it will be one-third lobsters, one-third pickles, 
and one-third eggs. Mix with a dressing as for chicken salad, and keep 
cold. — Kinsley. 



DRESSING FOR SALADS. 

Two raw eggs; 1 tablespoonful of butter; 8 teaspoonfuls of vine- 
gar; one-half teaspoonful of mustard. Place in a bowl over boiling 
water, stir until it becomes like cream, and pepper and salt to your 
taste. — Mrs. E. P. Savage. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Six eggs beaten very ligbt; one-half teacupful of melted butter; 1 
large coffee cupful of cream; 1 teaspoonful of salt and pepper each; 
1 mustard spoonful of mustard; '1 tablespoonful of sugar mixed with 
mustard; 1 small teacupful of vinegar. When well mixed float on hot 
water and stir until it thickens. — Mrs. Francis Bradley. 



MAYONAISE DRESSING. 

Yolk of 2 eggs; finest olive oil; vinegar; lemon juice; salt. Put the 
yolk of the eggs in a round bottom dish, then put in a teaspoonful of 
salt and commence to stir with a wooden fork, dropping slowly on to 
this the oil; continue to stir and drop the oil until it has become thick; 
then add the vinegar and lemon juice, drop by drop, continuing to 
stir until it is thoroughly mixed and has come to the proper consistency. 

— H. M. Kinsley. 



SAUCES. 



TARTAN SAUCE. 

The yolks of 2 eggs; 6 tablespoonfuls of olive oil; dessert spoonful 
of capers and 2 olives, chopped very fine; 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar; 
1 teaspoonful of mustard; a little cayenne pepper; salt to taste. 



•Mrs. Washburn, Australia. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

Put in sauce pan 1 cupful of butter; when melted stir in 1 cupful 
of flour; when hot pour in 2 pints of boiling milk, (or half milk and 
half cream); stir briskly to a smooth sauce; let it boil 20 minutes; sea- 
son with salt and a little cayenne; strain, when it is ready to serve. 

— Kinsley. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Twelve tomatoes, not skinned; one-half of an onion; 1 clove; 2 
stalks of parsley; 1 bayleaf ; 5 pepper corns. Set over the fire and 
stir until they can be mashed through a colander. Then put back on 
the fire and thicken a little if desired. — Prof. Blot. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

Two ounces of butter; one-half pint of sweet cream; 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; pepper and salt. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, boil 
the cream and stir in pepper and salt. — Mrs. Rodney Granger. 



26 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

ONION SAUCE. 

To be served with either roast mutton or pork. Boil the onions 
until tender; chop fine after being thoroughly drained. Have ready 
half a pint of scalding milk, seasoned with butter, salt and pepper;, a 
little cayenne. Stir in the onions and thicken; cook a few minutes and 
serve. — Mrs. Thomas Howard. 



PARSLEY SAUCE. 

To be used with boiled chicken, boiled salt pork, baked white fish, 
boiled salmon, or lima beans. 

Take a large bunch of parsley, wash clean, boil with stems on, in as 
little water as possible', into which drop a piece of soda as large as a 
small pea, to keep the parsley green. When tender, take from the 
water, which must be saved; pick from stems; chop fine; add as much 
rich milk to the water as needed, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
salt and pepper. Stir in parsley; thicken and cook a few minutes. 
Care must be taken not to get the sauce too thick. In serving with boiled 
chicken, cook the chicken in as little water as possible — boiling it 
down, if too much for the sauce, after the chicken is removed, and use 
this broth for the sauce instead of milk. — Mrs. Thomas Howard. 



CHUTNEY. 

Four pounds of dates boiled in vinegar to a paste and strained; 1 
tablespoonful of salt; 1-J tablespoonfuls of black pepper; 1 tablespoon- 
ful mixed mustard; 2 coffee cups of sugar; 7 small onions boiled and 
rubbed through a colander; 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves; 1 table- 
spoonful of allspice; 1 teaspoonsful cayenne; mix all, put into a kettle, 
boil 15 minutes; add 2 tablespoonfuls of preserved citron chopped fine. 

— Mrs. H. C. Peiroe. 



PIES. 



ENGLISH APPLE TART. 

Fill a shallow pudding dish with soar apples sliced very thin; 
sweeten to taste (a small cup of sugar to a medium sized dish); dot the 
apples with butter and grate a little nutmeg over all. Cover with a 
delicate pie-crust, not too rich, and bake. Serve with cream, either hot 
or cold. — Mrs. Lyman Baird. 



PUFF PASTE. (Peof. Bl6t.) 
Half a pound of flour; half a pound of butter; wet the flour with 
about a gill of cold (ice) water; work it smooth and roll it about one- 
third of an inch thick; wash all the salt from the butter, working the 
water well out, and make a cake of it 7 inches wide and broad; lay it 
on the ice while preparing the flour paste; put the butter in the middle 
of the paste and fold it all over the butter. Roll it out from four to six 
times one-third inch thick, folding it like a sheet of paper. Make in 
a cold place. (I only fold it three times, as I think it is more flaky.) 

E.A. C. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon; yolks of 3 eggs; 1 cup of sugar; 
1 cup of water; 1 tablespoonful of corn starch. Cook like custard 
before filling the crust. Use whites for top. — Mrs. Wm. Rugee. 



28 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

ORANGE PIE. 

For one pie take 1 large or 2 small oranges ; grate the yellow rind 
and squeeze the pulp; add 1 cup of water; 1 cup of sugar; 1 heaping 
tablespoonful of flour; 2 eggs; a little butter. No upper-crust. Lem- 
ons may be used instead of oranges. — Mrs. John C. Coonley. 



MINCE MEAT. 



Equal parts of chopped beef and apples. To 4 quarts of mixed apple 
and meat add 1 quart of molasses, 1 cup of boiled cider, 2 cups of sugar, 
a half pound chopped suet, cinnamon, allspice and cloves, chopped raisins 
and currants. Add any good things, such as orange and lemon juice, 
syrup left from preserves, etc. A mince meat jar may be such a recep- 
tacle for sweets, as a stock pot is for meats and vegetables. Put bits of 
butter on the top of the pies when making. — Mrs. John 0. Coonley. 



puddi:n^gs, 



FARINA PUDDING. 

One coffee cup of farina; one quarter cup of butter; 1 pint of milk; 
one-quarter cup of sugar; 6 eggs; grated rind of one lemon; 10 almonds, 
blanched and chopped. Boil the milk, let farina run slowly into it, 
and stir till the mass separates from the kettle. Then remove from the 
fire and stir into it the sugar, butter, lemon rind, salt, yolks one by one, 
and last the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake slowly one hour. 



HERODOTUS PUDDING. 

A. GENUINE CLASSICAL RECIPE. 

One pound of fine raisins, stoned ; 1 pound of minced beef suet ; 
one-half pound of bread crumbs; 4 figs, chopped fine; 2 tablespoonfuls 
of honey; 2 wine glasses of Greek wine; the rind of a lemon, grated; 
boil 3 hours. Sherry may replace the Greek wine. Sugar may be used 
instead of honey. — From Eliza Acton's Modern Cookery. 

H. C. PlEECE. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses; 1 cup of chopped suet; 1 cup of milk; 3 J 
cups of flour; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of soda; 1 teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon; half a teaspoonful of nutmeg; 1 pint of figs, chopped. 

— Mrs. F. Bradley. 



30 A BOOK OF TRIED KEOIPES. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Two cups of baker's bread, grated or chopped very fine, after 
removing all crust; grate rind of 1 lemon; one-half cup of sugar; 
yolks of 4 eggs; 1 quart of milk. Bake about 20 minutes or half an 
hour in a good oven. When done, spread whites of 4 eggs, well beaten, 
with half a cup of sugar and juice of the lemon over the top. Place 
in the oven and brown lightly. — Mes.A. D. Ferry. 



CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak 3 tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water over night. Put it into a 
quart of milk and boil 30 minutes. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 4 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and add 3 tablespoonfuls of cocoanut ; stir in and 
boil 4 minutes longer. Flavor with 1 tablespoonful of vanilla and pour 
into a pudding dish. Beat the whites of the eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar added. Pour over the top, then sprinkle with cocoanut and 
brown in oven. Serve very cold. — Mrs. J. C. Durgin. 



CHERRY PUDDING. 

One loaf of bread; 1 pint of milk; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 
6 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 5 eggs; grated rind of 1 lemon; a little 
cinnamon. Heat the milk, break the bread in small pieces, and put 
into the milk; cook till it separates from the kettle; take from the fire, 
and after it has cooled, add butter, sugar, yolks of eggs, lemon rind, 
cinnamon, and last, the beaten whites of eggs. Butter well a pudding 
mold, one with a tight-fitting cover; put into it in alternate layers, first 
the batter, then cherries, until all are used. End with batter. Steam 
two hours. — Mrs. John B. Meyer. 



PUDDINGS. 31 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One cup of chopped suet, or half a cup of butter; 1 cup of mo- 
lasses; 1 cup of milk; 3-J cups of flour; 2 e^jgs; 1 cup of raisins; 1 cup 
of currants; citron and spices to taste; 1 small teaspoonful of soda, 
beaten in the molasses. Steam 3 hours and serve with wine sauce. If 
suet is used, a pinch of salt should be added. Many prefer this to a 
plum pudding, because it is not so rich. — Mks. Chesbrough. 



FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup of chopped suet; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of raisins; 1 
cup of sweet milk; 3 cups of flour; 1 teaspoonful of soda; spices to 
taste. Boil 4 hours in a farina kettle; then put in the oven 16 minutes, 
and turn out. Serve with wine sauce. — Mrs. Dickinson. 



CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

One box of Gelatine (Cox) dissolved in a pint of cold water; 3 pints 
of milk, put over to boil with oue cup of French choeolate; when the 
milk is just scalded pour in the gelatine, sweeten to taste, boil five 
minutes, then take from the fire, flavor with vanilla, pour into molds. 
When cold serve with powdered sugar and cream. 

— Mrs. Andrew Crawford. 



APPLE FLOAT. 

Stew partially 1 quart of apples, then mash well; add the whites of 
3 eggs, well beaten, and a heaping tablespoonful of loaf sugar. Beat 
all together 15 minutes, and eat with cream spiced with nutmeg. 

— Mrs. Henry C. Bradley. 



32 A BOOK OF TKIED KE0IPE8. 

MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with thick slices of sponge cake 
(or any stale plain cake will do), then spread over it, thickly, raspberry 
or blackberry jam. Make a custard of the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, 1 quart of milk, and flavor with lemon. Pour 
this over the jam, and when cool, beat the whites of the eggs with 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over the top and brow^n in the oven. 
Let it stand several hours before using. — Mks. J. C. Durgin. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. (Excellent.) 
One cup of molasses, 1 cup of milk, nearly 2 cups of graham flour, 
1 tablespoonful of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 1 egg, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg to taste, 2 cups of raisins stoned, 1 and a half cups of 
raisins chopped, one-half cup of them whole. Begin with the molasses, 
dissolve the soda in a little warm water, stir into the molasses, then stir 
in the milk, then a little of the flour, about half, then the egg beaten very 
light, then the spices, then the rest of the flour mixed with the fruit 
Add a little salt and steam three hours. It must be put together very 
quickly. Eat with foaming wine sauce. — Mrs. J. H. Pkentiss. 



ICE CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 



PINE APPLE ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream; half a cup of milk; 1 teacup of sugar; 1 pine- 
apple. Pare the pine-apple, remove the core and eyes, and chop fine; 
sprinkle with sugar, half a cup to 1 pint of fruit; add juice of 1 
lemon. Add this to the cream when partly frozen. 



ICE CREAM. 

To 1 quart of cream add 1 tumbler of fruit jam and 1 tablespoonful 
of sugar; freeze. If strawberry or raspberry jam is used, after it is 
thoroughly dissolved in the cream, strain through a wire sieve to take 
out seeds. — Mrs. Geo. M. High. 



LEMON ICE. 

Dissolve 5 cups of sugar in the juice of 12 large lemons and 4 
oranges ; add 3 quarts of water and freeze. This will make 1 gallon of 
ice. — Mrs. E. M. B. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. (A Swedish Dish.) 

Haifa pound of prunes, whites of 6 eggs, 12 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar ; stew the prunes and chop fine. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
stir in the sugar and whip in very lightly the prunes. Bake in quick 
oven 5 or 10 minutes, and serve immediately with cream. Chopped 
peaches are also very delicious. — Lockby. 



34 *A BOOK OF TEIED RECIPES. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

Soak one-half box of Cox's gelatine in a cup of cold water; when 
clear stir it into 3 cups of boiling coffee, sweetened with three-quarters 
of a cup of sugar, and strain into a mold. When ready to serve, whip 
1 pint of cream and 2 tablespooiifuls of sugar and flavor with vanilla. 
Turn out the jelly on a platter and put the whipped cream around and 
on top of it. — Mrs. Clarence I. Peck. 



SOUFFLE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs; three-fourths of a cup of sugar; rind and juice 
of half a lemon; 1 cup of milk. Bring the milk, sugar and eggs to 
the boiling point; let cool; add juice of half a lemon; beat well the 
whites of 6 eggs; stir slowly into the prepared custard. Take out 
three-fourths of a cup of the custard before adding the whites of the 
eggs ; put sugar on the bottom of a pan ; add a little water ; brown the 
sugar before putting the souffld in; bake in a pan of water 15 minutes. 

Sauce — Take the three-fourths of a cup of custard reserved from 
the souffle and add half a cup of cream. U^e coffee cup for measure 

— Mrs. H. C. Peirce. 



CAFE PERFAET. 

Take a pint of thick cream, a small tea cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of strong coffee, and beat to a stiff froth; put in a mould and pack as for 
ice cream, not stirring it; it will freeze in three hours; delicious. 

— E. A. C. 



JELLIES, ETC. 35 

SEA FOAM. (A Very Pretty Dish.) 

One-half box Cox's or Nelson's gelatine, pour over it one pint of 
boiling water, and stir until dissolved. When cool, not cold, break in the 
whites of five eggs and whip to a froth. Flavor and sweeten to taste. 

Mrs. J. M. EOGERS. 



CREAM PUFFS. 



Melt half a cup of butter in 1 cup of hot water, and while boiling 
beat in one cup of flour. Then remove froni^ the fire and when cool 
stir in three eggs, without beating, one at a'time. Drop on tins, quickly, 
and bake about half an hour in a moderate oven. For the cream, take 
1 pint of milk; 2 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of corn starch; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar; cook and flavor with vanilla. Open the puffs at the 
side with a sharp knife and fill. Sprinkle powdered sugar over them. 

— Mks. J. C. D. 



LEMON SAUCE. 



Half a cup of butter; 1 cup of sugar; juice and grated yellow of 
1 lemon; three-fourths of a pint of boiling water; 1 tablespoonf ul of 
corn starch. Cook until it thickens. 



CAKE. 



FRUIT CAKE. 
Eleven eggs, 1 and a quarter pounds of flour, 1 and a quarter 
pounds of sugar, 1 and a quarter pounds of butter, 1 pound of currants^ 
2 pounds of raisins, 1 pound of citron, 6 teaspoonfuls of mace, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls of alspice, 
one quarter teaspoonful of soda, 2 tablespoon fuls of cream, 2 nutmegs.l 
gill of molasses, 1 gill of brandy. Butter mnst be beaten to a cream 
and v^hites of the egg beaten separately and added slowly with the flour. 
Fruit well chopped and well dredged. Spices must be mixed with the 
brandy and molasses. To be baked in two loaves for about two hours. 
It will keep two years. — Mrs. O. B. Green. 



MR. O. B. GREEN'S DOUGHNUTS. 

One coffee cupful of cream ; 1 coffee cupful of sweet milk ; 1 large 
spoonful of butter; 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar; 1 teaspoonful of 
soda; 3 eggs, well beaten; salt and cinnamon. Made soft as can be 
rolled. 

COOKIES. 

One cupful of butter; 2 cupfuls of sugar; 1 cupful of sour milk; 1 
teaspoonful of soda. Use as little flour as possible to roll. Roll thin 
and bake quickly. The cookies should be tender, not brittle. 



CAKE. 37 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Two cupfnls of sugar; three-fourths of a cupful of butter; 3 eggs; 
li cupfuls of cold coffee; 3 cupfuls of flour; 1 teaspoonful each of 
nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, allspice and essence of vanilla. Raisins, 
currants, citron, and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

— Mrs. J. B. Meyek. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

Three pints of sifted flour; 1 cupful of sugar; one-half cupful of but- 
ter ; 1 pint of sweet milk ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of blueberries ; 1 teaspoonful of 
soda in the milk and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in the flour. Rub 
the butter, sugar and eggs together, then add the milk with soda, then 
the flour with cream of tartar, and lastly, stir the blueberries in gently, 
and bake three-quarters of an hour in two long pans. Very nice. 



DAVIS CAKE. 

One cupful, (or 5 ounces), of butter; 2 cups, not quite full, of sugar; 
3 cups even full of flour; 1 cup, not quite full, of sweet milk; 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; 5 eggs (whites only); 2 teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla. 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of butter; 4 cupfuls of sugar; 4 cupfuls of flour; 1 cup- 
ful of milk ; 5 eggs. Bake in jelly pans and put icing between each layer. 
Three eggs will make icing enough for the quantity, 2 heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Flavor with bitter almonds. 

— Mrs. Henry Bausher. 



38 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

ESTHER'S MOLASSES CAKE FOR LUNCH. 
One cupful of molasses; 1 teaspoonful of soda; 1 cupful of boiling 
water; 1 tablespoonfnl of melted butter; flour enough to make a soft 
batter; one-half teaspoonful of ginger. To be eaten warm. If used as 
a dessert, serve it with a lemon sauce. 



SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 
Two and a quarter cupfuls of molasses; 1^ cupfuls of sour milk; f 
of a cupful of melted butter; 3 eggs; 3 teaspoonfuls of soda; 3 teaspoon- 
fuls of ginger; S-J, or perhaps, 6 cupfuls of flour. — Lochby. 



BLITZ KUCHEN. (Cookies.) 

One-half pound or 1 large coffee cupful of butter; one-half pound 
or 1 scant coffee cupful of sugar; one-half pound or 1 and a half coffee 
cups of flour; 4 eggs; grated rind of 1 lemon; some blanched almonds, 
cut in thin slices; ground cinnamon. Melt the butter, pour off from 
the settlings and stir to a cream, then add alternately a little sugar and 
an eg^ till all are used, add flavoring and flour, spread very thin in 
square tins, strew on some sugar, cinnamon and almonds, bake in a quick 
oven, to a light brown. While hot, cut in diamond shaped pieces. 



ALMOND CAKES. 

One cupful of butter; 1 cupful of sugar; 1 egg; 1 cupful of flour; 
J of a pound of grated almonds. Work with the hand and place in 
tart molds the thickness of pie crust. Bake in a slow oven. 

— Mrs. E. D. Winslow. 



CAKE. 39 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One and a half ciipfiils of sugar; ^ cupful of butter; whites of four 
eggs; 1 cupful of milk; 2 cupfuls of flour. Filling: 1 apple, stewed 
and sifted ; 2 oranges, grated ; yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten; sugar. Cook 
until the consistency of thick cream. Yolk of one egg for frosting. 

— Mrs. Ferry. 

RAISIN LOAF. 

Make at night or early in the morning a rising of a cupful of warm 
milk, a cupful of ilour and a third of a small yeast cake. In the morning, 
or when very light, cream 1 large spoonful of butter, one-half cupful of 
sugar and 1 egg together, and work into the rising with flour enough 
to make a soft dough; add a suspicion of cinnamon and a scrap of 
grated lemon peel. Let it rise four hours, or longer if it is not com- 
pletely honeycombed, then add a half cupful of seeded and floured rais- 
ins; put into the pan and let it rise again about a half hour. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. — Mrs. E. S. C, Jr. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar; one-half cupful of butter; one half-cupful of 
sour milk; two eggs; 2 cupfuls of flour; 1 small teaspoonful of 
soda. Grate one-half cake of chocolate, mix with . one-half cupful 
of sweet milk and the yolk of one egg, sweeten to taste, add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and cook until stiff. Cool, and add to cake mixture. 
Bake in a moderate oven and frost with confectioner's sugar. This 
makes a nice layer cake, using frosting for filling. Sweet milk and 
baking powder may be used instead of sour milk and soda. 

— Mrs. a. Heile. 



40 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 



SPONGE CAKE. 



A thoroughly tested recipe. 10 eggs, nine to be beaten separately 
and very thoroughly, the white of one egg to be left with the yolks; 2 
large coffee cupf uls of sugar, heapingf ul ; 2 large coffee cupf uls of ilour 
evenful; juice and grated rind of one large lemon ; soda, the size of a pea 
dissolved in the lemon juice, just before using. 

— Mrs. Wm. 0. Nichols. 



CREAM FROSTING. (Without Eggs.) 

One cupful of granulated sugar and 5 tablespoonf uls of milk. Let this 
be dissolved by stirring, then boil hard five minutes, pour into a deep pan 
plate and stir until it begins to thicken, when pour over the cake. Flavor 
to the taste. This makes creamy delicious frosting. It is very nice to 
have ready some chopped raisins and nuts, and stir into this, making a 
nut frosting. This will keep moist for a long time. 

— Mrs. C. L. Eyder. 

MAPLE FROSTING. 

Take 5 tablepoonsfuls of water to one half pound of maple sugar, 
dissolve, and boil five minutes, turn into a deep plate and stir briskly 
until it begins to grow thick and look creamy, then put carefully over 
the cake. Care must be taken not to stir until too hard If it should 
become rough it can be smoothed with a knife dipped in hot water. 

— Mrs. C. L. Eyder. 



PICKLES. 



OIL CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pare and slice 25 cucumbers; 1 teacupful each of black and white 
mustard seed, 1 tablespoonful of celery; one-half cupful of salt; 1 cup- 
ful of sweet oil poured over; lastly, fill up with cold vinegar enough to 
cover well. Cover tightly, and eat in a month's time. Yery good. 



CHOW-CHOW. 

One peck of green tomatoes ; 2 heads of cabbage ; 12 large white onions ; 
12 green peppers; sprinkle with salt; chop fine; let stand from 12 to 24 
hours; drain well through a sieve; cover with cider vinegar, heat to the 
boiling point; when hot, add 4 tablespoonfuls of mixed mustard; when 
cold, add 2 tablespoonfuls of turmeric; 2 teaspoonfuls of curry; 4 table- 
spoonfuls of mixed mustard; 2 cupfuls of sweet oil; 2 cupfuls of white 
mustard seed; 2 cupfuls of sugar; 2 cupfuls of horse radish; mix 
thoroughly together and bottle; ready for use in 10 days. 

— Mrs. H. C. Peirce. 



CHILI SAUCE. 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, very large ones; 8 green peppers; 8 onions; 
5 teacupf uls of vinegar; 10 iron spoonfuls of sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls of 
salt; chop onions and peppers, and boil all one hour. — Mrs. J. C. D. 



42 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

^MRS. PRENTISS' SWEET CUCUMBERS. 

Put them in brine, strong enough to bear up a potato, for three 
days. Scald the brine every day and pour over them when cold. Then 
put them into vinegar and water for twenty-four hours. Put them in 
a large stone jar in layers of cucumbers, sprinkling over them a tea- 
spoonful of alum and 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar; a sliced onion, large, and 
a sliced pepper, green; then cucumbers, etc., until the jar is full, over 
which, pour the scalding vinegar. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take 2 pecks of small cucumbers, make a strong brine, heat boil- 
ing hot and pour over the cucumbers; let them stand twenty-four 
hours, then take out and wipe dry, scald vinegar (weak vinegar will do) 
and pour over them and let stand twenty-four hours, then pour off, 
and to fresh vinegar add one quart of brown sugar; 2 large green pep- 
pers ; one-half pint of white mustard ; 6 cents worth of ginger-root ; the 
same of cinnamon, allspice and cloves; one tablespoonf ul of celery seed; 
alum, the size of a butternut; scald all, and pour boiling hot over the 
pickles. Pleasing to the taste of all pickle eaters. 

— Mrs. E. F. Comstock. 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



SALTED ALMONDS. 

Half a pound of Jordan almonds; 1 heaping tablespoonful of melted 
bntter; 1 heaping tablespoonful of salt. Pour butter on almonds in 
pan; sprinkle over them the salt and mix well; then brown a light 
brown in the oven, stirring them to keep them from burning. 

— Mrs. John H. Prentiss. 



CURRANT JELLY. 

Take currants as soon as they are ripe; wash and drain them, then 
put them in the preserving kettle aud let them get hot and burst; then 
throw them into a bag and let the juice run, without squeezing. To a 
pint of juice allow a pint of sugar. Boil the juice five minutes, then 
add the sugar, which has been heated in the oven, and as soon as it is 
melted, take the kettle from the fire, not allowing the juice to boil, after 
the sugar is in. Squeeze the currants after all the clear juice has been 
run off, and treat as above; it will not be so clear, but will be equally 
nice to eat. 



44 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

BAKING POWDER. 

Eight ounces bi-carboiiate of soda; 7 ounces tartaric acid; 1 pint 
flour. Mix all together and sift through a fine sieve three or four times. 
Keep in a tin can, with tight cover. Buy ingredients at a reliable drug 
store. — Mrs. John B. Meyer. 



PEANUT CANDY. 

One cup of mol-asses; three-quarters of a cup of sugar; one-quarter 
of a cup of butter; 1 quart of peanuts. Boil until hard when dropped 
into cold water, then stir the peanuts in and pour on buttered tins. 

— Mary F. Bradley. 



TO KEEP SALT FROM LUMPING IN DAMP WEATHER. 

Mix thoroughly a small teaspoonful of corn starch in a teacupful of 
salt. This will be found especially desirable for salt shakers on the 
table. — Mrs. Geo. L. Warner. 



ESTIMATES FOR COMPANY. 



For 125 persons: 10 or 12 quarts of salad; 150 patties; 225 small 
rolls; 10 quarts of coffee; 10 quarts of chocolate. A quart of coffee 
makes 6 cups. 4 quarts of dressing are needed for 12 quarts of salad. 

— Mrs. John C. Coonley. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 45 

SWEET TOMATO PRESERVES. 

One half bushel of small, yellow tomatoes, boil until the skin can 
be easily removed; to 1 pound of fruit add 1 pound of sugar; for 
this quantity, add one half pound of ginger, green or bleached, cut 
in pieces, and 4 lemons sliced. Boil all together ten minutes; take out 
tomatoes and boil syrup twenty minutes, and pour over fruit in jars. 

— Mrs. N orris. 



TO PREVENT FRUIT AND APPLE PIES FROM RUNNING OVER. 

Take a piece of writing paper two inches square and roll into a small 
cornucopia, cut off the pointed end a little. Make only one incision in 
the center of the upper crust and push the cornucopia down to the low- 
er crust. You will lose none of the syrup of the pie. It is well to 
always fold the upper crust over the under, at the edges.. 

— Mrs. C. L. Kyder. 



SCULPJORS' RECIPE FOR ^VASHING MARBLES. 

Make a strong solution of baking powder and wash with a soft 
brush; a shaving brush is very good. When clean, wash in clear water 
with a soft sponge. If at all shiny, apply a little face powder with a 
puff. — Mrs. Max. Hjortsberg. 



46 A BOOK OF TRIED RECIPES. 

CLEANING FLUID. 

Four ounces of ammorjia; 2 ounces of ether; 2 ounces of alcohol; 
quarter of a pound of castile soap ; 5 quarts of boiling water ; 1 ounce 
of glycerine softens the fabric. Half of this mixture will last a long 
time. — Mrs. John C. Coonlet. 



RECIPES FOR THE SICK ROOM. 



KECIPES FOR THE SICK ROOM. 



FOR INVALIDS. 



If a physician orders raw beef for a patient, this is a nice way to 
prepare it: Scrape fine a small piece of jnicy, tender beef, seasoned 
highly with salt and pepper, spread on thin slices of bread put together 
like sandwiches, and cut into small squares. These may be toasted 
slightly. 

Beef Croquettes are made by scraping a sufficient quantity of 
raw beef, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over, and shape in little 
balls, and put in a hot frying pan which has been well sprinkled with 
salt; shake the pan so that the balls may be heated alike on all sides. 

Beef Tea. Chop fine 1 pound of beef, add 1^ pints of cold water, 
into which have been put 8 drops of muriatic acid and a pinch of salt. 
After an hour, drain off the fluid without pressure, add half a pint of 
Cold water poured over the beef, strain it all and use it as a drink, very 
cold. Cannot be kept long in warm weather. 

2. Make beef tea in the ordinary way: A pound of chopped 
beef to a pint of cold water, cooked very slowly until the beef is hard, 



60 RECIPES FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

strain off the juice which should be a clear liquid like water; have it 
frozen, and give to the patient in little lumps like cracked ice. 

3. Take beef juice as in ISTo. 2, add a tumbler of boiled milk, slightly 
and evenly thickened with flour, flavor with bits of celery or celery 
seeds, which are to be taken out before serving, add salt, and call it 
white celery soup. 

4. Slightly boil a pound of lean beef (the "round" is best.) Cut 
into strips and squeeze out the juice. Give it cold with a little salt and 
celery essence; a tablespoonf ul of claret wine may be added. A pound 
of beef makes about three tablespoonf uls of juice. This is often pre- 
ferred to beef tea. 

The following are often preferred to beef tea: 

1. Put a quart of milk into a large perfectly clean bottle ; drop 
in the whites of three raw eggs; cook it and shake hard. 

2. To one pint of milk (sugar and vanilla to taste) slightly warmed; 
stir in a dessertspoonful of Essence of Pepsin (Fairchild), and set on 
ice. Serve with cream. 

Wine Whey. — Boil a tumbler of milk, and as it rises throw in a 
wine glass of sherry, giving one stir round the edges; let it stand over 
the fire until the curd sets; strain it; sweeten and ice it. 

Cream of Pice Soup. — Half a pint of chicken broth strained; add 
to it two tablespoonf uls of rice; let it simmer for two hours, strain, and 
then add a half pint of cream, salt to taste; let it come just to the boil- 
ing point. If the patient can bear it, pepper, celeiy, or a soupscore of 
onion may be added. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. — Pemove every particle of skin and fat from 
-2 sweetbreads; wash thoroughh^, and let them lie in cold water one hour 



RECIPES FOE THE SICK ROOM. 51 

to whiten. Then put them into a stew pan, with enough boiling water 
to cover; throw in a teaspoonful of salt, and boil briskly thirty minutes 
or until done through. Pour off the boiling water, cover with cold and 
let them stand 10 or 15 minutes. When cold and firm, cut into small 
square pieces and sprinkle over with salt, and one tablespoonful of 
flour. Put 'them into a clean stew pan, with one teaspoonful of butter; 
\ a cup of cream; \ a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; and a light 
shake of black pepper. Simmer for 10 minutes. Serve hot in a covered 
dish. — Mrs. Dr. L. L. Gregory. 



JeWel • Qasolerve • aAcl • Qas • Stores 



lOSyOOO IN USE. 

60 DIFFERENT STYLES. PRICES FROM $1.60 TO $33.00. 






Jewel Gasolene 
Stoves have a 
cut - off on the 
Generator which 
saves from one- 
quarter to one- 
third of the oil 
used by others. 






J ewel Gas Stoves 
have a direct 
needle valve to 
regulate the flames. 
No Gas Cocks 
are used. 



^U 
T* 



<i/Jskyotir Hardware or Stove Dealer for the Jewel and insist 

tipon having it. 

GEORGE M. GLARK & G9MPANY, 



54. 



M BROTHER^. 

117 TO 123 STATE STREET. 

BRY GO0BS, ... m 

' ' CARPETS, - - 
m ... riNE SH0ES, Ere, 



The Largest Assortment 



AT ... . 

Unquestionably Lowest Prices. 



55 



LYMAN BAIRD. 
WYl LYS \V. BAIRD. 



ESTABLISHED 1S57 



FRANCIS BRADLEY. 
GEO. L. WARNER. 



-^ 



tft©&BiaS|i»^ 



MMmMmpmiMmm. 



OO Xii^ SALLE STREET, 




SPECIAL ATTENTION TO 

NORTH SIDE AND LAKE VIEW PROPERTY. 



E. • R. • SCHLICK, 



3 -»4H- 



DEALER IN 



o . o bgvPslwape. o . O 



IMPORTED AS WELL AS DOMESTIC 
ENAMELED COOKING UTENSILS. 

^^ 
4^7 N. CLARK STREET, 



FINE BRASS WARE AND LARGE VARIETY 
OF JELLY AND BORDER MOLDS IN TIN 
AND COPPER. IN FACT A LARGE VARIETY 
OF USEFUL HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 



g HIGAGQ, ILL. 



56 




MAlliOrFICE NO.IZ3 E.RANDOLPH ST 



I* 






Private Families and others Supplied with Best Quality of Wisconsin Lake Ice at Lowest Prices. 




57 



THE CHICAGO DAILY NEWS. 

ONE CENT. 



Its prints all the news. It is a member of the Associated Press of which 
the other Chicago members are the Tribune, Times, Inter Ocean and Journal. 
Its faciHties for news-gathering are unsurpassed by any other Chicago daily. 

It is a short-and-to-the-point paper. Its matter of all kinds is closely 
edited with the view of giving the reader all the news of the day, and elimin- 
ating the merely trivial and inconsequential. It is designed to be a daily paper 
for busy people. 

It is an independent newspaper. It aims to be fair and impartial in 
discussing men and measures, and to give its readers all political news abso- 
lutely free from the taint of partisan bias. 

It is a paper of convictions. It recognizes the moral responsibiUties of 
editorial management. The radical distinction between vice and virtue is 
always distinctly maintained in all its columns. It is against the saloon. The 
home and the saloon are forever opposed, and there can be no neutrals on this 
question. But the DAILY NEWS is temperate in temperance. It isn't a 
prohibition organ — it isn't sure prohibition is the best way of treating the evil; 
further than it believes in prohibiting the saloon-keeper from ruling and ruining 
in American Society. 

It publishes no Sunday paper. 

It costs one cent a day or six cents per week. This is THREE DOL- 
LARS A YEAR LESS than any other Chicago morning paper is furnished for. 
The CHICAGO DAILY NEWS is within the reach of every man, woman 
and child in Chicago and the Northwest. 

58 



JV^ ERIDEN g RITANNIA Qq 
147 STATE STREET, 

.... CHICAGO 



DESIGNERS OF ARTISTIC SILVER PLATED WARE OF 
UNEQUALED DURABILITY. 



Manufacturers of the Celebrated 

1847 Rogers Bros. A i 

SPOONS, FORKS, Etc., Etc. 



Our Assortment of Wedding 
(^^ and Holiday Presents is very ^^ 
^ fine, to wliich we are con ^'^ 

stantly adding. 

A. L. SERCOMB, 

Manager 



59 



jamil\j SKoe Store, 






d. E. WJSW^LiLi & dO. ^ 

79 MADISON ST. 



-=•^■4=- . . 



WE KEEP ONLY THE BEST GOODS. rTHIGAGO 



PERFECT IN FIT AND COMFORT. 



A NEW DRUG STORE • 

HAS OPENED UPON THE 



COR. OF BYRON A EVANSTON AVES. 

Two Blocks South of Graceland Ave. 



WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF 



Drvjgs^ GKerrxicals ar\d Toilet Articles 

SODA. MINERAL WATER. A FINE LINE OF WINES AND LIQUORS 

AND CIGARS. FOR MEDICAL PURPOSES. 

T. W. Wrixon, having had over tweftty years experience in the 

business^ hopes by close attention ^ combined with popular 

prices, to merit the patronage of his friends and the public. 

PHYSICANS TELEPHONED FOR. AND PRESCRIPTIONS ,^, HOMOEOPATHIC REMEDIES 

DISPENSED AT ALL HOURS. • AT ALL HOURS. 

60 



GEO. • W. • MILLER, 



SUCCESSOR TO MILLER & HUNT." 



^16 



Wl^oleeg^le . F-lopi^t . ^ 



COR. NORTH HALSTED AND ROSCOE STS. 



LAKE VIEW 



••^ (Lhicago. 



. s. TV^OONEV 



DB75UBR IN 



PAINTS. OILS, WALL-PAPER, Ei:^ 



23 EVANSTON AVENUE 



LAKE VIEW. 



61 




THE ABOVE CUT REPRESENTS 

. ' < KEE . & . CHAPELL"S, > - • 



COR. CLARK & OTTO STS. 



T^ELEPHONE 3089. 



62 



THOS. J. BURKE. JNO. F. WEBER. 

RURKE& WEBER .. . . 



16 EVANSreN AVENaE, LAKE VIEW. 

■(H)- 



NEAR DIVERSEY ST. 



UptLolstering^, Cabinet JUlaUing, Finisttin^, Shades and JMattresses, 

.... REPAIRING OF ALL KINDS .... 

yiTHITB ROCK, 

WAUKESHA, 

Natural Mineral Springf Water. 

A PERFECT DRINKING WATER. AND OF » » ^ " * 



■Wonderful Medical TroperUes: 



A sure Remedy for Dyspepsia aqd Iqdigestion, and all Kidqey aqd Bladder Troubles. 
$1.00 FOR TEN GALLONS. 

Try \.\\e White Rock Gingerette and Ginger Ale. Th^ey are excellent toqics, appetizir^g, 

qerve invigoratirig, aqd invaluable for wakefulness, indigestion and dyspepsia 

in any fornn. We guarantee them free from Cayenqe Pepper, 

Spirits aqd Essential Oils. 

4g GflliK & BIiOGKI, ^ 

DRUGGIST PROPRIETORS 

111 RANDOLPH STREET. TELEPHONE 2453. 

44 & 46 MONROE ST., PALMER HOUSE, 

63 



D. J. BURKE. R. C. DELAP. 

Supke W ©elap, 



BUTCHERS AND GROCERS 



DEALERS IN 



Poviltrvj^ Qame ar\cl FisK 

Early Vegetables a Specialty 



All articles of the choicest quality, called for by the fore- 
going recipes, constantly on hand, and will be 
delivered on short notice. 

819 N. Clark Street. 5 &7 Wisconsin Street. 

*^ GHIGAGO. ^* . 

64 



• ••'»♦ *0 ^^ 1 * « - <J> ^■'^ L * * •^ aV "C- 









,♦" ... V**-"-'\*^ -o- '* 


















HO. 



.•'J^'« ^o J^ .'-',% •• „*^ ^.. "^t- *■•' .s*^ <. "• 



-OK 




O 'o - » « A. 














^ -- .. '** *■ 











\'^'/ V^^'/ \*^^/.. "°..''^V 







LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 485 095 6 # 



