1? 



JsjB^. 



LIBRARY 



VM I II I. 

University of California. 

Received ^/l/Ltf/r. , i8qC? 
Accession No . t? *? *C cT(p . Class No. 





E§*3 




\E££&I 


kH13 


S§j§ 


4bv££gI 




^H2 



dK^3 


ErE§?3S 


*2^£ 


t-'> ; *3Ki 




^^1 






Ep^aB 


^Sli^S 


4^^9 




$559 















£^3 


^s^ 


fc^23 




£|»3| 





Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2006 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/cookeryforworkinOOunitrich 






The Helping Hand Club 



Tissue IRo. I 



COOKERY 



FOR 



WORKING-MEN'S WIVES 



REPRINTED FROM 

Reports from ttje Cottsttla of tfje WimtzU states, 

No. 107. 



<&-Z.#£ 



NEW ALMADEN 

1890 



The Helping Hand Club 



Ussue IRo. I 



COOKERY 



FOR 



WORKING-MEN'S WIVES 



REPRINTED FROM 

fteports from tfje Consuls of tfje 8&m'teD States, 

No. 107. 



Off TEW ■ 

7BESIT 




NEW ALMADEN 

1890 



VY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1888. 



A Miners' Club-House. 

A social organization known as the " Help- 
ing Hand " was organized a few years ago at 
the New Almaden quicksilver mines, Santa 
Clara county. The company supplied a build- 
ing for the club-house, and this is well fur- 
nished and arranged for social purposes. Mr. 
Randol, the manager of the company, con- 
ceived the idea of fitting up a comfortable hall, 

with reading-room and kitchen attached, and 
this was carried out successfully. All who pay 
$1 a month to the " Miners' Fund " are entitled 
to the privileges and can come to the hall when 
open, play games, read, or take a cup of tea, 
chocolate or coffee, with cake. No gambling or 
drinking of spirituous liquors is allowed. Smok. 
ing is permitted in the main hall, also games, 
and in the reading-room no smoking or talking 
is allowed. There is a good library, and all the 
magazines and daily and weekly papers are kept 
on file. 

The attendance is good, the rooms being very 
generally frequented in the evenings. There is 
a cook-room where light refreshments are serv- 
ed at moderate cost. Entertainments of vari- 
ous kinds are given in the hall. Most of the 
amusements are arranged by the residents and 
are free. There are sometimes dramatic enter- 
tainments given by outsiders at which an ad- 
misBion is charged, the main ha ll or auditorium 
being fitted with a stage and scenery, so that it 
is possible for small companies to render plays 
there. 

The Helping Hand Society is almost wholly 
oonducted by the mine management. The 
'•Miners' Fund," by which it is maintained, is 
made up by monthly contributions of $1 from 
each adult employe of the company. The build- 
ing of the society is shown in the accom- 
panying engraving, which was made direct 

' from a photograph taken by Mr. Bulmore, one 
of the officers of the mine, who is a skillful 
amateur photographer. 



*& 



(o 



IMIVISSITTJ 



w 



OF tB3« 




COOKERY 



FQR 

WORKING-MEN'S WIVES 



REPORT BY UNITED STATES CONSUL UNDERWOOD, OF GLASGOW. 



I have the honor to state that I was lately invited to be present 
at a " demonstration" of a school for women in cooking and other 
branches of domestic economy. I should not, perhaps, be justified 
in making this report if the instruction followed ordinary lines. 
The novelty consists partly in cheapness, and having seen a good, 
palatable, and nutritious meal for six persons prepared at a cost 
of Is. (24 cents), and having observed the ameliorating influences 
flowing out from the school, I have thought some account of it 
might be of use in certain crowded districts of the United States, 
where the advice and assistance of the benevolent is needed. 

The school was established three years ago in Govan, a large 
ship-building town adjoining Glasgow, by Mrs. John Elder, widow 
of the well-known ship-builder, and all the expenses thus far have 
been paid by her. It is held in Broomloan Hall, belonging to the 
Established Presbyterian Church, under the charge of Rev. Dr. 
Macleod, who, with Mrs. Macleod, has taken an active part in 
promoting the work. 

The teacher, Miss Martha H. Gordon, is a sensible and practical 
woman,' and has shown great tact in gaining the good-will and 
sympathy of those among whom she has labored. This confidence 
appears to be an indispensable prerequisite ; the distrustful attitude 
of those needing help often frustrates any attempt to benefit them. 



4 # COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN S WIVES. 

The school, though primarily aiming at humble things, seems likely 
to have the broader effect of raising the plane of life and morals. 

The pupils are in two classes (1), mothers and unmarried women 
over twenty, and (2) girls of twenty and under. Girls are not 
generally received until they have left school. Each class meets 
twice a week for lessons in cooking and once a week for darning 
and mending. Instruction is also given in starching and ironing. 

In the leisure hours of every day Miss Gordon goes, as a friendly 
adviser, to houses in the district, wherever she is asked — some- 
times to pupils' houses, sometimes to others — giving practical in- 
structions upon all household matters. The mothers' class this 
last season numbered over two hundred, the younger class about 
one hundred and thirty. The attendance was naturally more 
regular in the latter. The numbers in both classes have been far 
too large for one teacher. From seventy -five to one hundred should 
be the maximum number, and for the next season additional 
teachers will be employed. 

The two classes represent about two hundred families, all of 
which, and a great many more, have been often visited by the 
teacher. The pupils are the wives and daughters of workmen in 
ship-yards and machine-shops, and of common laborers. The 
teacher thinks there is a visible improvement in the condition of 
at least thirty families, with hopeful signs in more. The gain is 
in personal neatness, in manners, speech, and general tone. The 
houses are more tidy and the children better clothed, and there 
are other cheerful signs, such as flower-pots in the windows. The 
teacher thinks the younger pupils will be lifted permanently, and 
not relapse when they become mothers of families. At present the 
chief obstacle in the way of improvement is the want of education. 
The girls read fairly, but write with difficulty. 

The heads of these families earn from 15.s. to 25s. per week 
($3.75 to $6.25). For a " house" of one room (meaning one room 
in an apartment house) the rent is from £0 to £7 per annum ($29.10 
to $34.02); for a house of two rooms from £7 to £9 ($34.02 to 
$43.74). The taxes, water, and gas amount to about one-fifth as 
much as the rent in addition. A very little arithmetic is necessary 
to show how small a sum is left for clothing and food. From 
these statements the importance of a system of instruction by which 
food can be prepared at a low cost will be evident, 

In many respects the instruction has been general — that is, as 
to the ways and means by which all successful cooking is best 
carried on ; but the materials have been chosen with rigid economy, 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN S WIVES. O 

so as to produce satisfactory results with the least money. It is 
easy enough to cook good dinners when there is an unlimited 
larder. 

Mrs. Elder offered a series of prizes in money and in books, from 
£2 ($9.72) downwards, and on the day of the " demonstration" 
there was a long show of bowls filled with hotch-potch (a broth 
with an abundance of minced vegetables), of oat-cake, and of 
" scones" (thin wheaten cakes, made light with baking-powder). 
There were shown, also, specimens of mending clothes, of darning 
stockings, of ironing shirts, etc. The teacher, assisted by two 
pupils, stood upon a platform before the cooking range, and went 
through all the operations required to prepare and cook a meal. 
Every process and mode of manipulation was explained step by 
step. This occupied nearly two hours, and there were produced 
several excellent dishes ; a fish soup, a kidney and liver soup, and 
a meat pie were the most successful. The fish soup was made of a 
large cod's head, with the addition of rice, onions, and potatoes. 
The kettle contained over 6 quarts, and the cost was a little more 
than sixpence. The meat pie is called " sea pie," because it is in 
general use among sailors. The peculiar excellence of Miss Gor- 
don's method is in making the meat tender and the crust light and 
not greasy. The flavor was excellent. The exact cost of each 
dish was given. 

The competition was not for the production of any one dish. 
Each competitor furnished in writing a plan for a series of fourteen 
dinners for a family of six, no dinner to exceed Is. (24 cents) in 
cost, the price and quantity of each ingredient to be stated. One 
dinner was produced by each, for which the soup was broth. Each 
competitor also baked scones and oat-cakes. 

After the examination of the specimens of cookery, mending, 
etc., the company adjourned to the large hall. The chair was 
taken by Dr. McLean, surgeon-general of the British army, who 
made a speech full of good sense and of practical knowledge, and 
with a clearness and beauty of phrase that left nothing to be de- 
sired. The hall was completely filled by the pupils and their 
families and friends. The prizes were given to the successful 
competitors, and a large number of books were bestowed upon 
other meritorious pupils. The scene was really affecting, mainly 
on account of the condition of the people interested. The 
bestowal of honors at a university was a commonplace affair in 
comparison. 

The time will soon come, if it has not come already, when 

j|I7BJSIt 



V 



6 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

efforts of the kind here described will be needed in the more 
populous districts of the United States, and without depreciating 
the benevolent institutions which aim to diffuse intellectual and 
moral influences among the working people, I submit that showing 
them how to live comfortably upon their small wages and inducing 
them to cultivate habits of order, neatness, and self-respect is not 
less important. 

F. H. UNDERWOOD, 

United States Consulate, Consul. 

Glasgow, September 6, 1888. 




COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN S WIVES. 



[Inclosure in Consul Underwood's report.] 

COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

(By Martha H. Gordon, as taught in Mrs. John Elder's domestic cookery classes, at Govan, near 

Glasgow, Scotland.) 

PREFACE. 

One of the principal objects of the instruction in domestic 
economy provided and organized in Govan some years ago by 
Mrs. John Elder, is to teach plain and economical cookery to 
women in classes, and especially at their homes. 

Since this movement was begun, domestic economy has been 
more largely taken up by school-boards in classes from the fifth 
standard upwards. Obviously, however, great need still exists, 
and must continue to exist — many children leaving the schools 
before they reach the fifth standard — for instruction of the kind, 
and given in the mode contemplated by Mrs. Elder. The recipes 
in this little cookery book are among those which I have been in 
the habit of teaching and illustrating, in fulfillment of the duties 
assigned to me by Mrs. Elder. They are here printed in the hope 
that they may be useful, not only to those attending the classes 
here and in the homes of Govan, but to the wives and daughters 
of artisans elsewhere. Some recipes for more advanced cookery 
have been added, together with directions in regard to washing, 
sanitary hints, etc. But it will be observed that the great aim kept 
in view is to help working-men's wives to provide thoroughly good 
and nutritrious food for their families at the smallest possible cost. 

Some of the ingredients are, perhaps, not commonly used, but 
the use of them does not involve much trouble, and they will be 
found to make nutritious and substantial meals. 

(1) Let me say, do not despise the importance of proper food to 
the human body. In order to nourish properly every part of the 
human body food should be carefully prepared and often varied. 
It is one of the duties of women, and a very important one, to 
attend to this. The mother of a family should grudge no trouble 
to gain skill and knowledge as to the best method of providing 
nourishing and palatable food for her husband and children. My 
experience has shown me that there are very many good, nutritious 



8 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEX's WIVES. 

dishes to be made at exceedingly small cost. Unhappily, there are 
comparatively few who will take enough thought or trouble to 
prepare them. How many homes would be healthier, brighter, 
and happier if our women could only be brought to see how much 
depends on them, and bestir themselves in the matter. 

(2) Do not despise the use of what are called scraps of meat. 
Scraps of meat, which can be got cheap from the butcher, will, with 
care and attention, make good pies and stews, and are as nutritious 
as more expensive cuts. A working-man's wife who studies 
economy and tries by careful cooking to get all the nourishment 
possible out of food will be able to feed her family on a tenth of 
what one who is careless and ignorant requires. 

(3) The great art in cooking is to keep in all the nutrition, salts, 
etc., of our foods, and to prevent them from being wasted in vapor 
up the chimney or through the house. All foods, whether heat- 
giving, flesh-forming, or stimulant, should therefore be cooked so 
as to keep in their several juices and flavors. All foods over or 
under done are wasteful. 

(4) Of the various modes of cooking I think one of the most 
economical, if attended to, is stewing. A clean pot with a close lid 
is required for stewing. After the stew is in the pot and warm do 
not remove the lid till it is ready, but give the pot a shake once or 
twice to keep it from sticking, and when done you will have a dish 
with all the nourishment and flavor in it. 

(5) To boil meat for soup put it in cold water, to dissolve all the 
juices. To boil meat so as to keep in the juices put it in boiling 
water and boil fast for ten minutes, to form a crust to keep in the 
juices, then simmer. 

(6) All bones for soup should be boiled for some hours, when 
the fire is not otherwise in use, so as to take all the goodness out of 
them, and this has not been done until they are perfectly light. 
The common practice of taking only two hours to boil a bone for 
soup is both careless and extravagant. If you wish to make a 
penn}'- go as far as possible by preventing the loss from any article 
of food you cook of a single element of flavor or nutritiveness, 
which is the object of perfect and economical cookery, remember 
to boil long and slowty, keeping the lid of your pot on as much as 
possible. By this means a pot of soup costing only a few pennies 
will be more savory and enjoyable than one costing many shillings 
and carelessly made. 

(7) Some sweet herbs, such as thyme, marjoram, mint, etc. (which 
can be grown at your windows), or a little celery seeds and two or 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN's WIVES. 9 

three cloves tied in a bit of muslin are a great improvement to 
many soups and stews. 

(8) It is much better, when you can, to grate your vegetables ; 
both the flavor and color is better than when boiled and put 
through a sieve. 

(9) In selecting vegetables see that they are perfectly fresh. 
After washing and trimming them, leave them in cold water and 
salt for an hour, so as to get rid of any slugs and make them crisp 
if drooping. To cook green vegetables, such as cabbage, greens, 
etc., have plenty of water with salt and a little soda in it, and when 
quite boiling put in the vegetables and boil quickly. Do not close 
lid of pot, and remove all scum as it rises. Without attention to 
these directions the vegetables will not be a good color. All water 
that green vegetables have been boiled in should be taken to the 
ash pit, as if put down the sink the smell would be very unpleasant 
in the house. With roots, such as turnips, carrots, etc., the lid 
may be kept on the pot. Turnips should be peeled rather thickly, 
then cut in four, or in slices, and boiled till tender. Carrots are 
only scraped, not peeled, then cut lengthways in four, and boiled 
till tender. If onions be boiled whole, care must be taken not to 
cut their tops too short, as they will fall to pieces. Never leave 
vegetables in the water after they are cooked enough. 

(10) The following recipes are specially intended for the ordin- 
ary kitchen utensils and open fires. Some of them may appear to 
be repetitions, but this is not the case, as the same ingredients, 
when cooked in a different way, will produce a different result. 
Should any of the recipes seem long, it must be remembered that 
they, in some cases, give complete dinners, and so contain several 
recipes in one. 

(11) The quantities specified are, as a rule, given in proportion 
suitable for a family from four to six in number, and the prices 
given are averages. M. H. Gordon. 



PLAIN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



Porridge. — To make really good porridge let the water come to 
the boiling point before the meal is put in. Pour the meal in from 
the left hand in a continuous stream, stirring all the time till it 
comes to the boil. In this consists the chief art of porridge making, 
and on its being well done depends the smoothness. Allow it to 
boil for ten minutes, then add the salt. Salt has a tendency to 
harden, and would prevent the meal from swelling. Boil for ten 
minutes after the salt has been added. Dish and take with milk. 

The quantity and consistency of the porridge must be regulated 
by the cook. 

Wheat meal porridge. — Have 1 quart of water at the boiling 
point ; take three good handfuls, or about 2J teacupfuls, of wheat 
meal; pour the meal regularly from the left hand, stirring all the 
time. There must be no lumps in it. Boil for ten minutes, add 
salt to taste, and boil for ten minutes more. Serve with milk, 
treacle, or stewed fruit. 

Porridge (for indigestion). — One pound barley meal, 1 pound 
oatmeal, 2 pounds wheat meal, 1 pound Indian meal; mix well 
together, proceed in the same way as with wheat meal porridge, 
but boil for half an hour instead of twenty minutes. 

To make a good cup of tea. — One teaspoonful of tea to every 
half-pint of water ; have the teapot well rinsed in hot water; put 
in the tea, take a piece of paper and close the spout, set the teapot 
near the fire, but not so near as to burn, for ten minutes ; have the 
water boiling and add ; do not let it stand longer than six minutes 
after adding the water. Remove the paper from the spout and you 
will find you have a cup of tea with all the aroma in it. Sugar 
and cream to taste. 

Be sure not to allow the water to boil too long. It is best taken 
when it first comes through the boil. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN's WIVES. 11 

Coffee. — One teaspoonful of coffee to each breakfast cup. An 
earthenware pot is best ; have it very clean and hot. Put in the 
coffee, close the spout to keep in all the aroma, let it stand at the 
fire, not too near, for ten minutes ; when the water boils, put it 
into the pot and cover close. Do not boil your coffee, but see that 
your lid is very close, so that all the fine flavor is preserved. 

How to boil eggs. — Put 1 pint of water in a small pan; let it 
boil; put in the egg; if small, three minutes will set it; if large, 
four minutes. When boiling several eggs see that they are as 
nearly as possible the same size. Ten minutes is required to boil 
an egg hard. 

Poached eggs. — Put 1 pint of water in a small pan, with half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; let it boil ; 
break the egg carefully into the pan, and simmer for four minutes. 
Take it out carefully and serve on toast. 

French toast. — Break and beat an egg well, add a pinch of salt 
and one gill of milk, dip some neat slices of bread in on both sides. 
Have your frying-pan with some hot dripping ready, then fry the 
bread a light brown. 

This is good with stewed rhubarb laid on the top. 

A nice breakfast. — One-fourth pound of old cheese, a teacupful 
of milk, two eggs, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, a small bit of 
butter. Cut the cheese very thin, put it into a frying-pan with 
half of the milk, butter, pepper and salt. Stir until the cheese is 
melted, then add the eggs, well beaten, with the rest of the milk. 
Cook for one minute and spread on hot toast. 

Eggs stewed with cheese. — One egg for each person. Let them 
set in a frying-pan, remove them to a plate. Cut some cheese very 
thin; put it on the top of the eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Set before the fire or in the oven to swell, and serve hot. 

Ham and eggs. — Put your sliced ham on in a cold frying-pan, 
turn it two or three times, taking care not to let it burn. When 
sufficiently done lay the ham on a nice hot plate. Break the eggs 
into a cup, taking care not to break the yolks ; slip one at a time 
into the frying-pan and baste with the ham fat. Keep the eggs as 
round as possible, lift with a slice, and lay on the ham. 

Omelet (plain). — In making an omelet care, should be taken to 
have the pan quite hot and perfectly dry. Put into the frying-pan 
1 ounce of lard, beat very gently (the lard must not get brown). 
The eggs are to be very lightly beaten, only long enough to mix 
them and no more. Break 4 eggs into a basin, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper ; mix, pour into a 



12 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

hot pan, and keep mixing quickly, till they are delicately set. 
Turn in the edges, let it rest a moment to set, turn it over on a 
dish, and serve. 

Omelet. — Two eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of corn 
flour, 1 tablespoonful sugar, pinch of salt, teaspoonful essence 
vanilla. Put the yolks of the eggs in a basin and stir them till 
they are light. Add the milk to them, then add, gradually, to the 
corn flour and other ingredients in another basin ; stir till very 
smooth; beat the white of the eggs to a snow and add them very 
gently with the essence vanilla to the rest of the mixture. Have a 
hot frying-pan, put in a little lard and melt, pour in all the mix- 
ture, and hold it over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till set 
and well risen ; brown the sap before the fire, or bake for a quarter 
of an hour in the oven. 

Colored eggs for Easter. — Eggs can be dyed a pretty color with 
the juice of a beet root, or the peel of onions boiled in the water; 
or, if you have a patch of fancy print, bind it round the egg and 
boil it, and it will leave the impression. Wash the eggs clean 
before boiling. Easter eggs should be boiled for ten minutes. 

Kedgeree. — One pound fish, one-fourth pound rice, 3 eggs, 1 
ounce butter. Wash rice well, put on in boiling water, and boil 
till soft; boil the fish and take away all bones and skin and 
separate into flakes. Boil 3 eggs for ten minutes, then throw into 
cold water to prevent their turning black, then peel and cut fine. 
Drain all the water from the rice, put it on the fire to dry, add the 
butter, salt, pepper, fish and eggs (saving one of the yolks), let it 
all warm, then dish and grate the yolk of the egg over it. 

Pea soup and potatoes. — One pound split peas, 1 Jd ; vegetables, 
l^d.; one-fourth stone* potatoes, 1J<1; total, 4Jd 

Wash the peas, and leave them soak over night ; put them on 
with 1 gallon of the water in which they were soaked, and the 
onions cut fine ; boil for one hour and a half, add carrot and 
turnip and two potatoes, all grated ; boil for another half hour, 
then add a teaspoonful of powdered mint, and serve hot. To be 
taken with potatoes. 

Barley broth. — One pound mutton or beef bones, Id.; one-half 
pound barley, Id. ; one-half pound of peas, Id. ; cabbage, turnip, 
carrot, parsnip, leeks, parsley, and celery, Id; total, 4d. In most 
places an assorted lot of vegetables can be got for Id. or 2d., accord- 
ing to quantity. 

Nothing can be more nourishing or wholesome than broth. It 

* Note. — The stone equals 14 pounds avoirdupois. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 13 

is advisable to make sufficient for two days, as many think the 
second day's broth warmed up is the best. It can be made of beef 
or mutton. The neck of mutton makes very sweet broth, but some 
prefer a cut of boiling beef with marrow. Be sure to have a pot 
with a good fitting lid. Put on the meat with 2 gallons of water, 
barley, and peas (if peas are used, they must be soaked the night 
before), and boil for one hour, then add the cabbage, turnip, carrot, 
and parsnip, cut small, and part of the carrot grated. Boil very 
slowly with lid closed for half an hour, then add leeks, parsley, 
and celery; boil for another half-hour; in all, boil for two hours, 
and serve. 

Sheep's head broth. — Head and trotters, Qd; barley and peas, 
Id. ; mixed vegetables, l^d. ; total, 8Jd. 

Get head and trotters singed; have the head split, take out the 
brains, wash every part well ; pierce the eyes, and wash the skin 
well with the liquor that flows out; scape out the eye cavities with 
a knife, then put the head and trotters in a pail of clean water, 
with a little salt and soda ; let them steep all night ; take them 
out, and scrape them well ; put them in the pot with 1 gallon of 
water, a teacupful of peas, and three-fourths of a teacupful of 
barley, boil for three-quarters of an hour ; add half a turnip cut in 
slices, the other half with carrot, parsnip, and cabbage cut very 
small ; add leeks, celery, parsley cut small, and boil for another 
hour; dish the broth, and serve head and trotters with the slices 
of turnip for garnish. Sheep's head broth requires longer boiling 
than other broths. 

Fish soup. — Cod head, Id. ; vegetables (carrot, onion and 
parsley), l^d.; one-half pound rice, 0|d.; one-half stone potatoes, 
2d.; total, 5d. 

Get a large cod head, wash it well ; put in on with cold water 
(1 gallon), and boil for an hour, then put it through a sieve or 
clean coarse cloth ; wash the rice well and add ; cut the onions 
very fine, and add ; grate the carrot, and boil very slowly with lid 
closed for one hour ; then add chopped parsley and all the fish 
taken from the head, with pepper and salt to taste. Serve hot 
with potatoes. A little milk will improve the soup. It is very 
like oyster soup. 

Mock kidney soup and potatoes. — Two pounds of liver, 6d.; 
vegetables (carrot, turnip, onion), Id.; one-half stone potatoes, 3d.; 
total, lOd 

Put on half of the liver with 1 gallon of water ; boil very slowly 
for an hour, then take it out, and grate it ; have the other half cut 



14 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

in nice, small pieces, and add ; grate the carrot and turnip, and 
one potato, but do not add the potato until fifteen minutes before 
you take the soup off the fire ; cut the onion very fine, and add it 
with the liver, carrot and turnip ; boil very slowly for one and 
one-half hours with lid close. Pepper and salt to taste, and serve 
hot with potatoes. 

Potato soup and fried beans. — One-fourth stone potatoes, \\d.; 
bone, Id.; vegetables, Id.; 1 pound haricot beans, l|<i; 2 ounces 
dripping, Ofd.; onions, 0|-cl; total, 6d. 

Boil the bone for six hours in 1 gallon of water; cut the pota- 
toes in six, and add ; cut leeks fine, grate carrot and turnip, and 
add; boil for an hour with lid very close, then add a little parsley 
cut fine ; pepper and salt to taste. Serve hot. 

Beans : Soak the beans for sixteen hours, then boil them for 
two and one-half hours; drain them; have a hot pan ready, put 
in dripping, with onion cut fine, then add beans, and fry till of a 
pale, golden brown. 

Rice soup and baked haricot beans. — One-half pound rice, Ofd; 
bone, Id; vegetables, Id; 1 pound beans, l%d.; onions, Ohd.; 2 
ounces dripping, Ofrf.; salt and pepper to taste; total, 5|d 

Soup: Boil the bone for six hours. When you are going to 
make your soup see that you have a gallon of the water that the 
bone was boiled in ; add the rice, carrot and turnip, grated, leek 
cut up small, and a little parsley cut fine; boil for one hour; pep- 
per and salt to taste. 

Beans : Soak the beans over night ; put them and the onions 
cut fine into a dish ; salt and pepper to taste ; add dripping and a 
pint of water ; cover with a close fitting lid, and bake in a slow oven 
for six hours. A most nutritious and savory dinner. 

Rice soup, tripe and potatoes. — Sheep's bag, 2} £ d.; one-half 
pound rice, Ofci.; vegetables, Id.; one-fourth stone potatoes, 1J(/.; 
total, 5f d. 

Clean the tripe well, and boil it slowly for five hours ; take it 
out, and cut it up into small pieces, and put it into another sauce- 
pan with a pint of stock, keep lid close ; let it simmer for two 
hours; to remainder of stock add water to make 1 gallon, add rice, 
and let it boil for half an hour slowly ; cut leeks and parsley fine, 
grate carrot, and add; boil for another half-hour, and serve hot, 
with salt and pepper to taste. Serve tripe with potatoes. 

Haricot bean soup and potatoes. — One-fourth stone potatoes, 
ljci; 1 pound beans, ljd; vegetables, Id.; onions, OJd; one-fourth 
stone potatoes, 1M; total, 6c/. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 15 

Wash the beans, and leave them to soak for sixteen hours. Put 
into a clean pot with a gallon of water and the onion cut fine. 
Boil very carefully and slowly for two hours, then add carrot, 
turnip and two potatoes, all grated, and boil for half an hour. Just 
before serving add a teaspoonful of powdered sage; salt and pepper 
to taste. Serve hot. To be taken with potatoes. 

Mulligatawny soup. — A calf's head and feet, 4d.; pepper, salt, 
carrot and turnip, Id.; apple, Id.; onion, marjoram, thyme, curry 
powder and sugar, Id.; total, Id. 

Scald the head and feet in hot water, having about the size of a 
nut of soda in the water; then scrape the hair all off, wash clean, 
and boil for about two hours; then strain the stock through a sieve 
or cloth; take all the meat from the bones, cut into small dice, and 
put it back into the soup; add water until you have 1 gallon ; then 
cut the apple, onion, and half of the carrot and turnip into small 
dice, and fry them in a pan; grate the other half of the turnip and 
carrot, and add all to the soup, also a teaspoonful of powdered 
marjoram, curry powder, thyme, and sugar, pepper and salt to 
taste, and boil for one hour. 

Mock cock-a-leekie (very good). — Two pounds veal, Qd,; leeks, 
2d.; four cloves, blade of mace, one-half teaspoonful of celery seed, 
Id.; total, 9d. 

Boil the veal slowly for two hours in 1 gallon of water, with the 
cloves, mace and celery seed tied up in a muslin bag. When the 
veal has boiled two hours take it out and add the leeks, well 
washed and cut fine. Cut up the veal in small pieces, add to soup. 
When the leeks have boiled half an hour add the potato, grated; 
boil for fifteen minutes ; take out the muslin bag. Salt and pepper 
to taste ; serve hot. 

Mock turtle soup. — Calf's head, a small piece of the lights, Qd.; 
small piece of the liver, one-fourth pound fat pork, 2d.; 1 tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, 1 of allspice, one-half of cloves, one-half of 
cayenne pepper, Id.; 1 lemon, Id.; one-half pound flour, 0\d.; 3 
potatoes, 0%d.; 3 eggs, 3d; total, Is. 2d. 

Wash and soak the head, lights, and liver for some hours. 
Boil them very carefully, keeping the lid close. Cut the meat up 
into small strips, fry the pork, cut it up into small pieces and add 
all to the soup. Veal should have 1 gallon. When it boils put in 
the cinnamon, allspice, cloves and cayenne pepper. Grate the rind 
of the lemon, add it with the juice to the soup. Grate the three 
potatoes and add. Brown the flour before the fire, mix it smooth, 
and add; let it all boil for ten minutes. Have 3 hard-boiled eggs, 



16 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MKN's WIVES. 

slice them up into the tureen, and pour the soup on the top of 
them. This recipe is equal to real turtle soup. It can be made 
with force meat balls, which are an improvement. 

Sea pie and potatoes. — One pound scrap meat, 5d.; vegetables, 
lei.; suet, Id.; flour, Id.; baking powder; one-fourth stone potatoes, 
1 R; total, 9$d. 

Get nice fresh meat and cut it into small pieces. Wash and cut 
up onions, carrot, turnip; put into stew-pan with two cups of boil- 
ing water ; set on the fire. Mince suet fine and mix with the flour, a 
pinch of salt, one-half teaspoonful of baking powder, mix with cold 
water, roll out paste the size of the pan lid, put it on top of the 
meat and vegetables, and let all steam for one and one-half hours 
at the side of the fire, not boiling but at the boil. When done cut 
the paste in four and take it out with the fork, then the meat and 
vegetables, and put the paste on top of all as it was in the pot. 
Serve hot with potatoes. 

Potatoes and stewed tripe. — Sheep's bag, 2\d.; one-fourth stone 
potatoes, \\d.\ one-half pound onions, 0|d; total, \\d. 

Get a sheep's bag and clean it well with hot water, not boiling 
but very hot, then leave it over night in salt and water, put it on 
and let it stew very gently for three hours in 2 pints of water. Cut 
up the onion very small, and cut the tripe up into nice pieces ; re- 
turn the tripe to the soup with onion and a large tablespoonful of 
flour, then stew for another hour. If you can afford it, Id. worth of 
milk added to this would make it better. Serve hot with potatoes. 

"Hot pot," or stewed mutton and potatoes. — One pound flank 
of mutton, 4-|d.; carrot, turnip, onion, Id.; one-fourth stone pota- 
toes, l%d.; total, Id. 

Wash and pare potatoes, cut into four or six ; pare turnip, cut 
in slices ; scrape carrot and cut in slices ; cut onion fine ; cut 
mutton into small pieces ; put a little of it into the bottom of the 
stew-pan, then potatoes, onion, carrot, turnip, mixed with pepper 
and salt, then some more mutton, till all is in ; add 1 pint of water, 
and steam for two hours. Serve hot. 

German pie. — One-fourth stone potatoes, \\d.; red herring, Of c?.; 
1 pound flour, l\d.; one-fourth pound dripping, lhd.; pepper, salt, 
baking powder, 0\d.; total, 5|c?. 

Wash, pare and slice potatoes, soak the herring in warm water, 
and divide into flakes; put the sliced potatoes and herring into a 
pie dish, well mixed with a little pepper and 1 ounce of dripping. 
If the herring is not salt, add a little salt, cover, and bake for two 
hours. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 17 

Cover: Mix the flour and 3 ounces of dripping with a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt ; make a stiff 
paste with cold water, roll out to the size of the pie dish and cover. 
Serve hot. 

A good "poor man's" pie. — One-fourth stone potatoes, lfd; 3 
ounces tapioca, Of d; one-half pound onions, Of d; 1 pound flour, 
1 f d; one-fourth pound dripping, lfd; pepper, salt, baking powder, 
Old.: total, 5fd 

Mode : Wash, pare and slice the potatoes. Have the tapioca 
washed and soaked in cold water for an hour before it is wanted. 
Cut onion fine. Take 1 ounce of the dripping and put a little in the 
bottom of a pie dish, then onion, then some of the soaked tapioca, then 
potatoes, salt and pepper. Repeat till all are in, then cover. Take 
the 1 pound of flour, 3 ounces dripping, a teaspoonful of baking 
powder and a saltspoonful of salt, mix well and add cold water 
to make a stiff paste, roll out and cover. Bake for two hours. 
Serve hot. 

A good savory pie. — One pound ox liver, 3d; one-fourth stone 
potatoes, lfd; 1 pound flour, lfd; one-fourth pound lard, l£d; 
pepper, salt, onion and baking powder, Of d; total, Sd. 

Mode: Cut the liver in small pieces, also the onion. Pare 
the potatoes very thin, cut in slices, and put them in pie dish 
in layers with pepper and salt. When all in, add water till 
three parts full. 

Cover : Take flour, lard, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a 
saltspoonful of salt ; mix well ; add cold water to make a paste ; 
roll out and cover pie dish and bake for two hours. 

Stewed calfs head and potatoes. — Calf's head, 4d; onions, 
Of d.; potatoes, one-half stone, 3d; total, 7f d. 

Wash the head well and leave it to soak for some hours in 
water and a little salt. Break up the head. Put it, with 1 
quart of water and the onions cut fine, into a nice clean pot. 
Let it boil, and then only keep it at the boil, without boiling, 
for three hours, and you have a good savory stew to eat with 
potatoes. 

Lentils and rice. — One pound lentils, lfd; one-half pound rice, 
Of.; onions, 0|d; dripping, Ofd; total, 3d 

Wash the lentils, soak them over night, and put them into a 
saucepan with 3 quarts of water. Boil for two hours very slowly ; 
then add the rice (after washing it), with onion cut fine and 
dripping. Let the rice boil until it absorbs all the water. This 
makes a good substantial dinner. 



18 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

Rice and cabbage. — One pound rice, l|c?.; 1 cabbage, Id.; 
dripping, 0|c?.; total, 3c?. 

Wash the cabbage well and boil it soft in salt and water. Wash 
the rice and boil it soft and dry. Mash the cabbage well ; add it 
to the rice with the dripping, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix 
well and serve hot. Good. 

Potato pie. — One-fourth pound suet, IJc?.; onions, O^c?.; one-half 
pound oatmeal, Ofc?.; one-fourth stone potatoes, ljc?.; 1 pound flour, 
l|c?.; one-fourth pound lard, l|c?.; baking powder; total, 6fc?. 

Chop the suet very fine, cut the onions small, pare the potatoes 
very thin, and cut in slices. Take a large pie dish, scatter some 
suet in first, then some onions, then some meal, and a layer of 
potatoes, pepper and salt, till all is in. Put potatoes on the top, 
then cover with a crust made of the flour, lard and 1 teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Bake for two hours in moderate oven. 

Savory meat pie with potatoes. — One-half pound liver, l|c?.; 
1 pound scrap meat, 5c?.; onion, Q\d.; 1 pound flour, l\d.; one- 
fourth pound lard, l\d.; pepper, salt, baking powder ; one-fourth 
stone potatoes, l|c?.; total, lie?. 

Cut the meat and liver into nice thin slices. Chop the onion 
fine. Put a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of pepper on a plate ; then mix, and dip your meat and 
liver in this. Roll a small bit of onion in a piece of liver, then 
the liver in a slice of meat, and lay it very lightly in a pie dish, 
heaping it in the center ; add water till the dish is three parts full, 
then cover. 

Cover: Flour, lard and a teaspoonful of baking powder, mixed 
well together, with cold water and a pinch of salt ; roll to make 
nice stiff paste. Cover and bake for two hours. Serve hot with 
potatoes. 

Skirt pie and potatoes. — One and one-fourth pounds beef skirt- 
ing, 5c?.; pepper and salt, OJc?.; baking powder ; 1 pound flour, 
l|c?.; one-fourth pound lard, l\d.; one-fourth stone potatoes, l|c?.; 
total, 9|c?. 

Beef skirt is very tender and good if nicely cooked. Cut it 
across in thin slices. Mix a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half a teaspoonful of pepper on a plate, and dip each slice 
of meat in this mixture. Roll up tightly and place in a dish, 
keeping it well in the center. Fill three parts full and cover. 

Cover : Flour, lard, baking powder, pinch of salt, mix well to- 
gether ; add cold water to make stiff paste. Bake two hours. 
Serve hot with potatoes. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 19 

Two dinners from a sheep's pluck. — One sheep's pluck, 6c?.; 1 
pound onions, Id.; 2 ounces dripping, Ofc?.; some sweet marjoram, 
pepper and salt, OJc?.; one-half stone potatoes, 3c?.; total, lljc?. 

Split the heart, cut the lights, and soak in water for an hour. 
Take them out and cut in small pieces. Put a teaspoonful of 
dripping in a stew-pan with 2 onions cut fine. Let them brown. 
Add the heart and lights with 2 cups of water, half a teaspoonful 
of powdered marjoram, let them boil, and keep them simmering 
for two hours. Serve with potatoes or rice. 

Fried liver. — Cut the liver in thin slices. Cut the onions fine. 
Put a tablespoonful of dripping in a pan ; let it get hot. Add the 
liver and let it cook for about ten minutes, then turn it out on a 
warm dish. Put in the onions and fry them brown. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of flour and some pepper and salt in half a cup of water, 
and stir it into the pan with the onions. Let it boil up for a 
minute, then pour it over the liver. 

Two days' dinners for a family. — Ox-foot, 5c?.; vegetables (cab- 
bage, turnip, carrot, leek, parsley), 2c?.; pot barley, Id.; potatoes, 
3Jc?.; cheese, l|c?.; flour, l|c?.; total, Is. 2£c?. 

First day's dinner, broth, stewed ox-foot and potatoes; second 
day's dinner, broth, cheese and potato pie. 

To make two days' broth, get a good ox-foot, cleaned, wash it well, 
and put on in 2 gallons of cold water. Boil very slowly for five hours 
the night before it is wanted, then take it out and skim all the oil 
carefully off. After breakfast put on the stock that the foot was 
boiled in (keeping out one pint) ; add water to make up 2 gallons ; 
wash the barley well and add. Wash the vegetables very care- 
fully, cut them very fine (grating the carrot), and add them, after 
the barley has boiled slowly for an hour. Keep the lid close on 
the pot, and boil slowly for another hour, in all two hours. Salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Ox-foot stewed to be taken with potatoes : Cut the foot in nice 
pieces, put in a saucepan with a pint of stock (if liked, a little of 
the white part of the leek also). Take 1 ounce of flour, pepper, 
salt, and a tablespoonful of oil, mix with a little tepid water, make 
into little balls, and add twenty minutes before you serve on a 
hot plate, the balls being put round the pieces of foot. Boil half 
the potatoes, and you will have a good dinner for a large family, 
taking one-half of the broth, and leaving the other to be warmed 
up next day and taken with potatoes and cheese pie. 

For cheese pie take the other half of your potatoes, pare very 
thin (as the best part of the potato is next to the skin), and cut in 



20 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

slices. Put in a layer of potatoes, pepper and salt ; grate the 
cheese, put in some, and so on till all is in, then over all put in a 
large tablespoonful of the oil. For crust take flour and the rest of 
the oil taken from the foot, and mix with tepid water, a teaspoonful 
of baking powder, a little salt ; roll out and cover pie. Bake for 
two hours and serve hot. 

Soup and haricot of ox-tail. — Good ox-tail, Is.; vegetables, tyd.; 
rice, OJc?.; total, Is. 2c?. 

Haricot : Separate the tail at the joints, wipe with a clean 
cloth. Take the root and divide in four for the first day's dinner, 
put it in saucepan, and let it get nice and brown ; be careful not to 
let it burn. Then add the half of the Vegetables (which should be 
carrot, turnip and onion), 1 pint of boiling water ; let it simmer for 
four hours. Salt and pepper to taste ; serve hot. 

Soup : Take the rest of the tail, put on with 3 quarts of cold 
water, 3 cloves, 1 teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, 10 pepper- 
corns, 12 allspice ; tie all these in a muslin bag. Let all simmer 
very gently for three hours. Add the rice, after it has been well 
Washed, and the other half of the vegetables cut very fine or 
grated, and boil for two hours more with close lid. Serve hot. 

Stewed hough. — One pound hough, 5c?., cut in slices (by the 
butcher, to break the bone). Take out the marrow, and put it 
into the stew-pan with 2 sliced onions and a teaspoonful of flour. 
Let it brown, then put in the slices of meat, and let them brown 
for a few minutes ; add half a teacupful of water, some pepper 
and salt. Stew slowly for four hours, with lid very close. Tough 
pieces of meat can be made very palatable by long, slow stewing. 

Take 1 pound of the common dry green peas, having soaked 
them for sixteen hours in water with a bit of soda the size of a 
nut; and, after the hough has stewed for three hours and a half, 
add the peas with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and let them stew to- 
gether for half an hour. Serve hot. 

Stewed steak. — Get 1 pound stewing steak and a piece of suet, 
which is always given. Chop the suet fine and fry. Dredge the 
steak with flour and fry very lightly in stewing-pan on both sides. 
Then add a teacupful of water, boil, then simmer very gently for 
one hour and a half. Add salt to taste and half a teaspoonful of 
pepper. A tablespoonful of flour mix in water, add, boil, and 
serve hot. 

This is very good and goes a great way further if you add some 
vegetables. You can vary the flavor with carrots, onions, parsley, 
turnips and sweet herbs. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 21 

Collops. — Put a little dripping into a saucepan, let it get quite 
hot, then put in your minced-meat, and keep turning it for ten 
minutes or so with a fork (if liked, when the dripping is hot, before 
putting in the meat, add an onion chopped fine and a teaspoonful 
of flour). When all is a nice brown, add as much boiling water as 
will cover the meat ; close the lid and stew very gently for one 
hour. Pepper and salt to taste. 

Stewed rabbit. — Cut the rabbit into eight pieces and fry till 
brown, add a teaspoonful of curry powder, quarter teaspoonful 
pepper, half a teaspoonful powdered thyme, some carrot and turnip 
cut in slices, two gills of water. Simmer (with close lid) for one 
and a half hours. Mix 1 tablespoonful flour with water till smooth, 
1 small tablespoonful burnt sugar, 1 of vinegar, a little salt to taste, 
add this to the stew, and boil all another minute or two. Serve hot. 

Curried rabbit. — One rabbit, 2 onions, 1 apple, 1 teaspoonful 
curry powder, 1 ounce dripping and a little salt. Wash and dry 
rabbit, cut it up in small pieces, put the dripping in a stew-pan, 
let it get quite hot; peel and chop up the onions, also the apple, 
fry them till a pale brown ; add the pieces of rabbit, and fry them 
on all sides ; stir in a teaspoonful of curry powder, a pinch of salt, 
and mix well with the meat. Add a teacupful of water, and stew 
very gently with lid close for an hour and a half. Serve with dry 
boiled rice for a border round it. 

Rice and cheese with green peas. — One pound rice, l\d.; three- 
fourths pound dry green peas, l?d.; one-fourth pound cheese, l\d.; 
vinegar, sugar, pepper and salt, 0|d; milk, 0|d; total, 5|c?. 

Wash the rice and put it on to boil in 2 quarts of water, with a 
teaspoonful of salt. When soft and all the water taken up stir in 
the milk with more salt, if required, and pepper to taste. Grate 
the cheese (old cheese is best), mix it in, but keep a tablespoonful 
to put on the top of the dish. Warm all up in the pot ; then turn 
out on a pie dish. Put tablespoonful of cheese on the top, and let 
it brown in the oven or before the fire. Get the common dry 
green peas, soak them for sixteen hours with a bit of soda the size 
of a bean in the water. Then boil in salt and water. When soft 
drain, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 
pepper and salt to taste; shake in the saucepan well. Serve hot. 

Indian meal and cheese. — One pound Indian meal, Id.; one- 
fourth pound cheese, l|e?.; dripping, 0|d; total, 3d. Boil the meal 
for one hour, and let it be very thick. Grate the cheese and add 
with dripping, pepper, and salt. Serve hot. Good after hard 
day's work. 



22 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN's WIVES. 

Potted head. — Half an ox-head, Is. Qd. Break up the head, 
wash and soak it in water for a few hours. Boil slowly for five 
hours in enough water to cover it. Then take it out, and skim the 
fat off the pot. When cold, lay the head on a clean board, and 
take the meat off the bones. Cut the meat into small pieces, and 
put it back into the pot. Add a tablespoonful of salt, a table- 
spoonful of Jamaica pepper, a teaspoonful of black pepper, a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, and boil all for half an hour ; then put into 
basins, and let stand till cold and stiff. This, warmed up, will 
make good dinners for two or three days, with potatoes. 

Black pudding. — One quart of blood and skins, Id.; one-half 
pound suet, 3c?.; and one-half pound oatmeal, Id.; one-half pint 
skimmed milk, 0\d.; 1 teaspoonful of mint and a little salt, Of*?.; 
total, 6d 

Get the blood free from clot. Mix with the oatmeal. Add 
suet, salt, a tablespoonful of Jamaica pepper, a teaspoonful of black 
pepper and a teaspoonful of powdered mint. Warm the milk, add 
and mix thoroughly ; turn the skins inside out, and wash them 
well in warm water and salt. Then rinse them well in cold water, 
and fill three parts full with the mixture. Tie the two ends 
together ; put them in hot water and boil slowly for twenty 
minutes. While they are boiling prick with a pin to let the 
air escape. For serving, toast before the fire, or fry in pan for 
ten minutes. * 

To boil potatoes. — Wash the potatoes clean in cold water, put 
them in a pot with cold water to cover them, and a tablespoonful 
of salt ; boil from twenty minutes to half an hour. Take a fork 
and feel if their center is quite tender ; if so, drain off all the 
water, put a clean cloth over the potatoes in the pot, let them stand 
by the side of the fire with lid on to steam. When quite dry take 
them out very carefully, peel them without breaking, and put them 
in a hot dish. If the potatoes are watery, put them in boiling 
water and keep boiling rapidly till done; dry well, and it will 
make them quite mealy. 

How to boil rice. — Half-pound rice, a pinch of salt, a quart of 
water and a tablespoonful of dripping. 

Put on a quart of water, let it boil (milk is better). Wash the 
rice well. Throw it into the boiling water with a pinch of salt. 
Boil for fifteen minutes. The rice must be soft, but each grain 
separate ; drain it in a colander and shake it well. Put the drip- 
ping into the pot, then put the rice back, and let it swell slowly 
near the fire for ten minutes. Serve hot. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 23 

How to boil macaroni, and to make macaroni cheese. — Put on a 

a quart of water; let it boil. Add a little salt, then a half-pound of ma- 
caroni. Boil for half an hour ; drain it in a colander. If for cheese, 
put one cup of milk into the pan, one-fourth pound grated cheese, 
a tablespoonful of dripping, a tablespoonful of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a little salt. Let it boil. Grease the bottom of 
a pie dish, put in the macaroni. Pour the milk, cheese, flour, pep- 
per and salt over it, and last, sprinkle a little more grated cheese 
on the top. Let it brown before the fire or in the oven. Two eggs 
may be added in place of cheese, and a teaspoonful of sugar. 

FISH. 

Fresh herring, baked. — Fresh herring, salt, pepper, vinegar 
and dripping. 

Clean the herring well, pack them in a baking dish, sprinkle 
salt and pepper over them, a little dripping and two teaspoonfuls 
of vinegar. Bake half an hour. Serve hot. Good cold. 

To fry herring. — Clean and dry the herring, put some salt, 
pepper and oatmeal on a plate ; dip each herring well in the mix- 
ture ; have a frying-pan hot with some dripping in it, put in the 
herring and fry, turn carefully, and fry the other side. Serve hot. 

Another way to fry fresh herring. — Cut off the head, fins, and 
tail, split them up the back ; clean well ; take out the backbone, 
scrape them, salt and pepper inside. Take two herrings, place the 
insides together flat, dip them in oatmeal, and fry for about eight 
minutes over a clear fire in a frying-pan. 

To boil fresh herring. — Wash, gut, dry, and rub them over 
with a little salt and vinegar ; put them into boiling water with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and simmer for ten minutes. When done 
take them out of the water immediately. If they are to be kept 
hot for some time, cover them with a clean cloth. 

To boil salt herring. — If very salt, leave them to soak in cold 
water for some hours. Put them on to boil in cold water, and let 
it come slowly to the boil. When boiling, draw to the side of the 
fire, and keep at the boil for ten minutes, and take them from the 
water the moment they are cooked. If salt fish are allowed to boil 
it hardens them. 

Baked sprats. — Sprats, dripping, parsley, salt, pepper and 
vinegar. 

Clean and wipe the sprats gently; mix a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, and a half a teaspoonful of 
pepper on a plate ; dip in each sprat, and put in a baking dish, 



24 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

with a little vinegar and a little dripping on the top, and bake for 
half an hour. Good hot or cold. 

Fish pie. — Cod head, Id.; one-fourth stone potatoes, l\d.; 1 
pound flour, \%d.; one-fourth pound lard, l\d.; baking powder, 
Q\d.; total, b\d. 

Get a large cod head, wash it well, place it in a pie dish, and 
put the dish into a pot with water; but do not allow any of the 
water to get into the pie dish. The head is to be cooked by the 
steam. Let the water boil hard for half an hour, then take out the 
head and remove all the meat from it ; boil and slice one-fourth 
stone of potatoes, put a layer of potatoes into the pie dish first, then 
fish, pepper, salt, till all are in, adding only any of the liquid that 
was in the pie dish, then cover with paste. 

Salt codfish cakes. — Two pounds codfish, one-fourth stone 
potatoes, 1 egg, pepper, flour and dripping. 

Soak the fish over night. Put it on to boil. Whenever it boils 
draw it to the side, and let it steam (salt fish should never be 
allowed to boil, for it only hardens it). When done take out all 
the bones ; have your potatoes boiled ; mash them and the fish 
together, with pepper and salt to taste. Beat up the egg and add 
it. Make into thin cakes, flour them, and fry them, with dripping, 
a light brown. Fresh fish can be done in the same way, and is 
more nutritious. 

Fish cooked in its own juice. — One pound fish. 

Have your fish well cleaned, wipe it well, and put it into a jar 
with a clove or sprig of parsley ; cover very close, and set it in a 
saucepan of boiling water, keeping it boiling for half an hour. 
Serve on a hot plate, with or without sauce. 

Fresh fish. — One pound fish, one-fourth pound dripping. 

Put the dripping on the fire in a pan to get hot ; have the fish 
cleaned and wiped, cut off fins and tail, sprinkle it lightly with 
bread crumbs, or flour, or meal ; shake off any loose crumbs. Put 
a crumb of bread into the dripping to see if it is hot enough ; if it 
hisses, it is ready ; if it burns, it is overdone. Put in your fish ; it 
will take about ten minutes to fry ; have it a nice color. Serve on 
hot plate. (If you can afford it, you can dip it in egg before you 
put it in bread crumbs.) 

To boil fish. — If the fish is large, with skin whole, it must be 
placed on the fire in cold water ; if it weighs 3 or 4 pounds, it will 
take thirty minutes to boil. To every quart of water put a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and when the fish begins to boil remove the lid to 
one side and let it simmer gently till quite done. Have only 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN's WIVES. 25 

enough water to cover the fish, or the skin will crack and spoil its 
appearance. 

Steaks or sliced fish. — To every quart of water add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. When the water boils add the fish and allow it from 
fifteen to twenty minutes for each pound. A tablespoonful of 
vinegar in the water is an improvement to fish. 

PUDDINGS. 

Boiled scrap bread pudding. — Any odd pieces of bread. Put 
into a bowl, pour boiling milk over them ; let them stand till well 
soaked, then beat up with a fork ; add a small piece of dripping, a 
few currants or raisins, a little moist sugar ; mix well up, put into 
a greased bowl, tie a floured cloth over the top, and boil for an 
hour. Good either hot or cold. 

Plum pudding for the million. — One-half pound chopped suet, 
one-half pound flour, one-half pound bread crumbs, 1 pound grated 
carrots, 1 pound potatoes, 1 pound currants, 1 pound raisins, 1 
pound apples, 1 teaspoonful of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
1 teaspoonful of allspice, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, half a 
nutmeg (grated), 1 pound sugar, a good pinch of salt. 

Mix the flour, bread crumbs, suet, carrots, potatoes, ginger, cin- 
namon, allspice, nutmeg, baking powder, salt, and sugar well ; then 
add currants, raisins (stoned and cleaned), and apples. Mix with 
water or milk into a soft paste, boil in floured cloth for four hours, 
or in a basin or mold for five hours. Good. 

Brown suet pudding. — One pound flour, one-fourth pound suet, 
one-half pound treacle, one-half pound raisins, salt, half nutmeg 
(grated), 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, milk. 

Warm the treacle, chop the suet very fine, mix the flour with a 
pinch of salt, soda, cream of tartar, nutmeg, cinnamon, all well to- 
gether; add treacle, suet, raisins, and put .in a well-floured cloth 
and boil quickly for three hours. 

Fig pudding. — One pound figs, one-half pound flour, one-half 
pounds bread crumbs, one-fourth pound suet, 2 ounces sugar, half 
a teaspoonful nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 small teaspoonful 
baking powder, milk or water. 

Chop the suet and figs fine; mix flour, bread crumbs, sugar, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, and baking powder well together ; add suet 
and figs, with enough milk or water to make into dough. Roll it 
into a floured cloth, leaving room for it to swell, and boil very fast 
for three hours. i^< 



U»lv 




26 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

Indian pudding. — One quart milk, one-half pound Indian meal, 
1 small cup treacle, 1 tablespoonful dripping, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 
1 egg, 1 teaspooonful baking powder, a pinch of salt. 

When the milk is nearly boiling wet the meal with some of th3 
cold milk and let it boil; then add the treacle, dripping, ginger, 
pinch of salt, and egg well beaten; lastly, the baking powder. 
Turn it into a pie dish and bake for two hours. 

Cottage pudding. — One cup milk, 1 teaspoonful (large) butter, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, three-fourths pound flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, yolks of two eggs. 

Mix sugar, yolks of eggs and butter to a cream ; then add the 
milk and flour by degrees ; beat very light, then add soda and 
cream of tartar, and bake for one hour. 

Sauce. — Half a cup of milk, stir in two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
beat the whites of two eggs to a slight froth, and stir in; flavor 
with vanilla before serving. 

Swiss pudding. — One pound apples, 2 tablespoonfuls stale bread 
crumbs, 1 egg, 3 ounces sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls butter, or dripping. 

Peel, core, and slice the apples and stew in a covered jar ; when 
done add the sugar and a teaspoonful of butter; when cool, stir in 
the egg, well beaten ; butter the pie dish ; strew bread crumbs 
about an inch thick at the bottom, and as many up the sides as 
will remain on ; pour in your apples, and strew over them the re- 
maining crumbs, and bake for one hour. 

Rhubarb or apple dumpling. — One pound flour, one-fourth 
pound suet, 2 pounds apples or rhubarb, 6 ounces sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one-fourth teaspoonful salt; if apples, 
two cloves; if rhubarb, half the skin of a lemon, or a little 
ginger. 

Chop the suet fine, and mix it with the flour, salt and baking 
powder ; then add a little water till you have a nice, stiff paste. 
Roll out enough of the paste to line your dish, both bottom and 
sides. Peel and core the apples, cut them into six slices. If it is a 
rhubarb dumpling, cut the rhubarb in 1-inch lengths, and put it 
into the basin with the sugar and flavoring. Then take the re- 
mainder of your paste and roll it out the size of the top of the 
basin, wet the edge of the paste lining and lay on your paste cover 
so that it will stick to it; then flour your cloth and tie it up. 
Have the water boiling ; boil your dumpling for three hours, and 
turn it out. 

A good tapioca pudding. — Soak 3 tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 
some ginger wine for one hour ; then add a little sugar, 1 beaten 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 27 

egg, and some milk. Grease a dish, pour it in, and bake for 
one hour. 

Sago can be made in this way, also bread and butter pudding ; 
using more wine, with a little water and no milk, is a nice change. 

Simple trifle. — Six sponge cakes, 2 eggs, 1£ tablespoonfuls jam, 
1£ breakfast-cupfuls milk, 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Cut sponge cakes in slices and arrange neatly in a pudding 
dish ; pour a little milk over them, just enough to make them soft, 
then spread the jam over. Take the eggs and separate the whites 
from the yolks ; lay aside the whites ; beat up the yolks in a bowl. 
Put sugar and a breakfast-cupful of milk into a small pan and 
bring it to the boil ; then pour this over yolks, stirring all the time 
with a fork ; return it to the pan, and stir over the fire till it 
thickens a little (it must not boil, or the eggs will curdle), then put 
spoonfuls lightly over the sponge cakes. Whisk up the whites 
with a knife into a stiff broth, and lay lightly on the top. Stale 
sponge cakes are very good for this pudding, and are to be had 
cheaper on Saturday night. 

Marmalade pudding. — One breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 break- 
fast-cupful bread crumbs, 2 ounces suet, 1 teaspoonful baking soda, 
1 tablespoonful of sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade, butter and 
milk. 

Chop suet fine, and put in a basin, add bread crumbs, flour, 
sugar, soda, and marmalade ; mix with a little buttermilk till the 
whole is wet (it should not be very moist), and beat up a little with 
a fork ; grease a bowl, put in the pudding, and cover with a greased 
paper ; put the bowl into a pot with an inch of boiling water in it, 
put the lid of the pot closely on and steam for two and a half hours. 

This pudding can also be made with syrup, instead of mar- 
malade. 

Christmas pies (simple).— One half pound apples, one-fourth 
pound figs, one-fourth pound currants, one-fourth pound raisins, 
one-fourth pound sugar, one-half ounce cinnamon, one-half ounce 
ginger, 1 pound flour, one-fourth pound lard, 1 teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder. 

Peel and core the apples, and cut them into small dice, put 
them in a basin with the sugar; mince the figs fine; stone and 
mince the raisins (or use sultana raisins) ; pick and rub the cur- 
rants very carefully with a cloth ; put all into a basin with the 
apples and sugar, add the cinnamon and ginger (and any other 
flavoring that is liked). Mix all well together (the mince is all the 
better of being prepared some time before it is wanted). 



28 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN's WIVES. 

For the crust, mix the flour, lard, a teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, and a pinch of salt, well together, then add enough cold water 
to make a stiff paste ; roll out to about a quarter of an inch thick. 
The pies can either be made in small tins or soup plates. Rub the 
tins or plates well with lard, cut the pastes to the right size, put the 
mince meat in carefully, wet round the edges, and cover the top 
with paste, and bake in a not too quick oven. 

Jam roly. — One breakfast-cup of flour, 1 breakfast-cup of bread 
crumbs, 2 ounces suet, 1 pound jam, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, a 
small teaspoonful of baking soda. 

Put in a basin the flour, bread crumbs, suet chopped very fine, 
soda and sugar, and mix with cold water into stiff paste, and roll 
out into a thin sheet about one-fourth inch thick ; take a bowl and 
grease it with dripping, line it with some of the paste, spread at the 
foot of the bowl some jam; then lay in a layer of paste, repeating 
layers of jam and paste, till the bowl is filled; wet the edges of the 
last layer of paste, and turn down over it the lining of the bowl ; 
cover the top with a greased paper, and put the bowl into a pot 
with half an inch of boiling water in it ; put the lid of the pot 
close on, and steam for two hours, then turn out. 

This pudding is very good made with apples instead of jam. 

A few hints on pudding making. — When a pudding is to be 
boiled, see that the cloth to be used is very clean, and that it is 
dipped in boiling water, dredged with flour, and shaken well before 
the pudding is put into it. 

If a bread pudding, it must be tied loose. If a batter one, it 
must be tied tight. 

When a shape or basin is to be used they must be well greased 
before the pudding is put in. When it is ready care must be 
taken in lifting it out. Allow it to stand for a few minutes before 
unloosing the cloth. 

All puddings must be boiled in plenty of water, turned fre- 
quently, kept closely covered, and never allowed to go off the boil. 

If the pudding is to be baked, the dish or pan must be also 
greased before it is put in. Bread and custard puddings require 
time and a moderate oven to raise them. 

As a rule, steamed puddings are put in an earthenware dish, cov- 
ered with a tight cover or greased paper, which is placed in a pan 
of boiling water, which must not come more than three parts up 
the sides of the pudding dish. If the water boils away, more boil- 
ing water must be added, and it must be kept always boiling. Be 
careful in removing the lid that no drops fall on the pudding. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 29 

Puddings, etc., when steamed, do not require so much liquid in 
them as when baked. The dry air of the oven dries them, steam- 
ing keeps them moist. 

Plain bread pudding. — Any odd pieces of crust or crumbs of 
bread will make a nice pudding. To every quart allow half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 3 ounces of sugar, 
half a pound of currants, and half an ounce of butter. 

Break the bread into small pieces, and pour as much boiling 
water over it as will soak it well. Let this stand till the water is 
cool ; then press it out, and mash the bread with a fork until it is 
quite free from lumps. Measure this pulp, and to every quart stir 
in salt, nutmeg, sugar, and currants, in the above proportions; mix 
all well together, and put into a well-buttered pie dish. Smooth 
the surface with the back of a spoon, and place the butter in small 
pieces over the top ; bake in a moderate oven for one and a half 
hours, and serve very hot. Boiling milk substituted for boiling 
water would very much improve the pudding. 

Oatmeal pudding. — One-fourth pound suet chopped fine, one- 
half pound oatmeal ; 2 onions chopped fine, a teaspoonful salt, and 
half a teaspoonful pepper ; mix well together without water ; tie it 
rather loosely into a floured cloth, and boil for three hours. 

A cheap dish, and eaten with bread or potatoes. Good and 
nourishing. 

Suet crust for pies or puddings. — To every pound of flour 
allow one-fourth pound beef suet, half a pint of water, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Free the suet from skin, chop it extremely fine, and rub it well 
into the flour, with salt and baking powder; add the water, and 
work the whole into a smooth paste, roll it out, and it is ready 
for use. 

The above, with the addition of treacle or fruit, and rolled up as 
a roly-poly in a flour cloth, and boiled for three hours, is very good. 

Apple sauce. — One pound of apples, peeled, cored, and cut in 
thin slices. Stew with 1 ounce sugar, half a teacupful of water. 
Stew till in a pulp, and serve with roast pork, etc. 

Mint sauce. — Chop a good handful of green mint up fine, put 
into bowl with a large tablespoonful of brown sugar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter teaspoonful of pepper and a teacupful of 
vinegar. Serve with cold meat or lamb. 

Brown sauce. — One ounce butter, 1£ ounces flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter teaspoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar and a small onion. 



30 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

Put the flour before the fire till it is a pale brown, put the 
butter and onion, cut fine, into the pan, let it get pale brown ; add 
the flour made smooth in a cup of water, a little pepper, salt, 
vinegar, and another one-half cupful of water ; boil and drain. 

White sauce. — One ounce butter, 1J ounces flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter teaspoonful pepper. Mix together in a 
pan, add the milk gradually (about two teacupfuls), let it boil, and 
serve for fish or vegetables. For mutton sauce add to the above a 
handful of parsley, washed well and chopped very fine. 

Pudding sauce. — Two teacupfuls of milk, half a cup of sugar, 2 
eggs, a tablespoonful of vanilla. Beat eggs to a froth with sugar. 
Boil milk and sugar, pour over them, stirring all the time, add 
vanilla. 

Plain pudding sauce. — One tablespoonful corn flour, large 
tablespoonful sugar, teacupful milk and 1 egg. Beat egg, sugar, 
and corn flour, with tablespoonful of milk, very light, boil the rest 
of the milk, pour it over the mixture, stirring all the time. 

Preserved rhubarb. — Wipe the stalks of young rhubarb, cut in 
neat pieces. To every pound of rhubarb add 1 pound of sugar and 
the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Put sugar and lemon on 
the fire to melt ; when melted add rhubarb. Boil for half an hour, 
taking care not to break the rhubarb. Take it out carefully, put 
it in jars, let it cool, then cover with paper, and put away for 
winter use. 

To preserve rhubarb for winter use. — Rub the rhubarb well 
with a damp cloth to take off any sand, dust, or smoke ; when per- 
fectly clean cut it into nice pieces about an inch long, and put 
them into a deep earthware dish. To every 6 pounds of rhubarb 
add 6 pounds of sugar and one-fourth pound of best whole ginger. 
Cover the dish and let stand for two days. Then run off the syrup 
into a preserving pan and boil it for half an hour ; then add the 
rhubarb and boil until it is clear ; when it is transparent it is 
done. Stir it as little as possible, so as not to break the rhubarb 
(it looks best whole). This preserve will keep for a year. 

Apple jelly. — Two pounds apples, 2 pounds rhubarb, 2 lemons, 
and sugar. 

Wipe clean and quarter the apples, remove any decayed pieces, 
keep in the seeds. Wipe the rhubarb clean, and cut it up into 
small pieces ; wipe and peel the lemons very thin ; put all in jelly 
pan, and just cover with water, add the juice of the lemon, and 
boil to a mash. Then pour into a jelly bag, and let it drain ; 
measure the juice, and to every pint add 1 pound of sugar. Put 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 31 

the jelly pan on the fire, and bring to the boil, stirring until all 
the sugar is melted. Let it boil for twenty-five minutes, then skim 
and pot. 

Lemonade with citric acid. — One pound sugar, 1 pint of water, 
1 ounce citric acid, 2 teaspoonfuls essence of lemon. 

Put sugar and cold water in saucepan and boil. Let it cool ; 
then add the other ingredients, and bottle. A tablespoonful to a 
tumbler of water. 

Sherbet (a refreshing drink). — One-half pound sugar, one- 
fourth pound tartaric acid, one-fourth pound carbonate soda, sixty 
drops essence of lemon. 

Mix sugar and essence of lemon, and dry thoroughly. Then 
pass all through a sieve. Bottle and cork tight. For a tumbler 
of water use a teaspoonful of the mixture. 

Boston cream. — One pound brown sugar, 2c?. worth essence 
lemon, 2 ounces tartaric acid, the white of 1 egg. 

Put the sugar into 3 quarts of cold water, boil it, pour into a 
basin, and let it cool. Add the essence of lemon, tartaric acid, and 
the white of the egg well beaten up. Bottle. One tablespoonful of 
this syrup to a tumbler of cold water. 

Ginger wine. — One-fourth ounce essence of cayenne, one-fourth 
ounce essence of ginger, one-half ounce tartaric acid, 1 lemon, Id. 
worth burnt sugar, 3 pounds sugar, 3 quarts of water. 

Put 3 quarts of cold water into a preserving pan, with the rinds 
and juices of lemon, the tartaric acid and the sugar. When melted 
take any scum off; let it boil. When cold add the essence of 
cayenne and of ginger, and add sufficient burnt sugar to give the 
color you wish. Bottle tight, and it will keep good for three 
months. 

Raspberry wine. — One-half ounce essence of raspberry, one- 
fourth ounce essence of cayenne, one-half ounce tartaric acid, Id. 
worth cochineal, 2 lemons, 4 pounds sugar and 3 quarts water. 

Put on the water with the juice and rinds of lemons, sugar, and 
tartaric acid ; let it boil ; take off all the scum. When cold, add 
the essences, and a few drops of cochineal to give the desired color. 
Bottle tight. 

Apple and tapioca tart. — One pound apples, one-fourth pound 
tapioca, one-fourth pound sugar, 3 cloves. 

Soak the tapioca all night in cold water. Peel, core and slice 
the apples. Put a layer of apples in a pudding dish, then one of 
tapioca. Sprinkle in some sugar and cloves, and continue this 
process till all is in. 



32 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

Cover : Three-fourths pound flour, 2 ounces lard, 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder. Mix flour, lard, and baking powder, with a pinch 
of salt, well together ; then add water to make a stiff paste, roll 
out, cover, and bake for an hour and a half. 

In the spring rhubarb is very cheap and wholesome, and may 
be used instead of apples. 

Suet can be substituted for lard or dripping, and made into a 
roly-poly, and boiled for two hours. 

BREAD, SCONES, AND CAKES. 

To make bread. — Seven pounds flour, 2 ounces German yeast, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful salt, a little butter, and a little 
more than a quart of water. 

Mode: Take 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, the sugar and yeast, with 
a cupful of tepid water (the water to be the heat of new milk), set 
it near the fire to rise for half an hour. Put all the flour but one 
handful into a basin, mix well with the salt ; if the yeast has risen 
well, you will have light bread. Add the yeast and a quart of 
tepid water to the flour in basin, knead it with the hand until 
smooth ; then take the butter and rub over the dough. Cover the 
basin with a cloth, set it near the fire, let it rise for three hours ; 
then divide the dough into loaves, and bake for one and a half 
hours in a moderate oven. If the oven is too cold, the bread will 
not rise ; if too hot, it will destroy the yeast. 

Wheat meal bread. — Ingredients, 2 pounds wheat meal, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking soda, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls dripping, 
and not quite a quart of buttermilk. 

Mode : Mix the wheat meal, the baking soda, cream of tartar, 
salt, sugar, and dripping well together ; then stir in the buttermilk, 
and mix quickly and thoroughly for not more than ten minutes. 
Put into a tin and bake in rather a quick oven for one and a half 
hours. This will make two loaves at least. 

Soda bread. — Ingredients, 2 pounds flour, 2 pounds Indian 
meal, 3 teaspoonfuls baking soda, 3 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 
large teaspoonful of salt, 1 large teaspoonful of sugar, a little more 
than a quart of buttermilk. 

Mode : Mix all the dry ingredients well together, then stir in the 
buttermilk ; mix well and divide it into three or more loaves, 
and bake in a tin in a rather quick oven ; time, one hour. Very 
wholesome. 

Soda scones. — One-fourth stone flour, large teaspoonful baking 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 33 

soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, buttermilk, and a small tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients together thoroughly and lightly ; add 
the buttermilk to make the dough, and divide into from four to 
six pieces. Sprinkle a little flour on the baking board, and roll 
out the dough with rolling pin to about a quarter of an inch thick. 
Cut in four and bake on a hot griddle till of a pale brown ; then 
turn and bake the other side the same. 

Steamed brown bread. — One pound Indian meal, half a cup of 
treacle, salt, 1 teaspoonful baking soda, and 1 teaspoonful cream 
of tartar. 

Mode : Mix meal, treacle, a pinch of salt, baking soda, and 
cream of tartar well together ; then add enough buttermilk to 
make a firm dough ; mix quickly, and put into steamer or basin, 
and steam in fast boiling water for four hours. 

Baked brown bread. — One pound wheat meal, 1 pound Indian 
corn meal, half a cup of treacle, salt, 1 egg, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, milk or water. 

Mode : Mix wheat meal, Indian meal, half teaspoonful salt, 
baking soda, cream of tartar well together ; warm the treacle and 
add it, with the milk (or water), to the dry ingredients; put in 
floured tin, and bake five hours in a moderate oven. 

Oat cakes. — Mode: Put 1 pound of oatmeal into a basin, a 
very small pinch of baking soda, and a small teacupful of tepid 
water ; mix well. Spread some dry meal on the baking board, lay 
the dough on it and knead with knuckles till you have it half the 
size wanted. Roll out smooth, and finish with rolling-pin ; it 
should be very thin. Cut in three, and rub well with dry meal on 
both sides ; put them on the griddle. The fire must not be too 
quick ; when quite dry (not brown), take them from the griddle, 
and toast the other side before the fire till crisp. One teaspoonful 
of melted dripping is thought by some to be an improvement. 

Wheaten meal scones. — One pound wheat meal, 1 pound flour, 
teaspoonful baking soda, teaspoonful cream of tartar, teaspoonful 
dripping, half teaspoonful salt, and a little buttermilk. 

Mode: Mix the meal, flour, baking soda, cream of tartar, 
dripping, and salt well together ; then add the buttermilk to make 
a light dough ; divide, and roll out to the thickness of a quarter an 
inch, and bake on not too hot a griddle. 

Rice scones. — One pound rice, one-fourth pound flour, 1* tea- 
spoonful sugar, and half teaspoonful salt. 

Put the rice, sugar, and salt into a saucepan, with 1 quart 



34 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

water, and let it come to the boil. Then set it to the side of the 
fire, and let it steam for two hours with the lid close till all the 
water has been absorbed and the rice has become soft; then 
sprinkle the flour on the baking board and turn the rice out on 
it. Let it stand till cool ; then divide into six parts, and roll 
out very thin. Cut each part in three, and bake on not too hot a 
griddle. 

Potato scones. — Potatoes, flour, and salt. 

Take any boiled potatoes left from the dinner ; bruise them nice 
and smooth on the table or baking board ; add salt to season ; then 
shake some flour over them or work it in, roll out very thin, prick 
with a fork, and cut in three. Bake on not too hot a griddle. 

Scalded scones. — One pound flour, one-half teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the flour and salt together, and add boiling water enough 
to make a good, firm dough; then divide it, and roll out very thin 
on the baking board sprinkled with flour. Cut in three, and bake 
on not too hot a griddle. 

Indian meal and flour scones. — One pound Indian meal, 1 
pound flour, 1 tablespoonful treacle, 1 teaspoonful baking soda, 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful salt, and butter- 
milk. 

Mix all together, and then add enough buttermilk to make a 
nice, soft dough ; divide it, and roll out each piece into about a 
fourth of an inch thick. Cut in four, and bake on not too hot 
a griddle. 

Barley meal scones. — Two pounds barley meal, three-fourths 
teaspoonful baking soda, three-fourths teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful salt, and buttermilk. 

Mix, and add enough buttermilk to make a nice, soft dough ; 
then sprinkle a little meal on the baking board, and roll out to a 
fourth of an inch thick. Cut in three, and bake on not too hot 
a griddle. 

Crullers. — One and one-half pounds flour, one-half pound sugar, 
one-fourth pound butter, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
milk, and lemon. 

Mode : Butter and sugar, beat to a cream, add flour and milk 
alternately till all are in ; beat up the eggs very lightly ; grate the 
rind of the lemon into the flour, and add the juice ; then put in 
baking powder, mix well, roll out to a quarter of an inch thick, 
divide into small rounds, cutting center out of each to form rings. 
Fry in hot fat a light brown. The quantities given will make 
eighty-five crullers. 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 35 

Cocoanut cake. — One-half pound sugar, 1 pound flour, one- 
fourth pound butter, milk, 1 cocoanut, 2 eggs, and 1 large tea- 
spoonful baking powder. 

Mode : Grate cocoanut. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, beat 
the eggs very light, and by degrees add the milk and flour ; then 
cocoanut and baking powder, and a pinch of salt. Bake in a tin 
or mold for two hours. 

Small cocoanut cakes (good for children). — One cocoanut, 1 
egg, half a gill milk, one-fourth pound sugar, one-fourth pound 
flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, and 1 tablespoonful of 
corn flour. 

Mode : Mix corn flour, sugar, baking powder and flour well to- 
gether ; add milk and cocoanut grated, beat up the egg well, and 
add. Divide the mixture, and work it with your hands into small 
cones or drops. Bake on buttered paper in a quick oven. 

Ginger bread. — One pound flour, one-half pound treacle, one-half 
pound sugar, one-half pound lard ; 3 eggs, a large teaspoonful of gin- 
ger, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, half teaspoonful cloves, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, half a nutmeg grated, a little salt, and milk. 

Mode : Melt the lard, sugar and treacle in a saucepan. Beat 
up the eggs well, mix the flour, baking powder, spice, and a pinch 
of salt well together ; add the melted lard, sugar, treacle, and eggs. 
Use a little milk to make a soft batter, and bake in a moderate 
oven one and a half hours. Fruit can be added to this cake — 
raisins, currants, or almonds — which will make it richer. 

Rough robin. — One and one-half pounds flour, one-half pound 
rice flour, one-half pound lard or butter, one-half pound sugar, 1 
pound currants, 1 pound sultana raisins, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 1 teaspoonful ground caraways, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
and a little salt. 

Mode: Mix lard, flour, sugar, baking powder, spices, and a 
pinch of salt well together, and beat well. Then add fruit. Mix 
with buttermilk to make a stiff batter. Bake for two hours. 

Rice cake. — One pound flour, one-half pound rice, one-half 
pound sugar, one-half pound butter, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla, salt and milk. 

Mode : Beat butter to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs and 
the sugar ; beat very lightly. Then add the flour (after being well 
dried before the fire or in the oven), baking powder, pinch of salt, 
vanilla, and sufficient milk to make a nice, thick batter. Beat up 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add them last. Mix all 
very lightly, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. 



36 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

Seed cake. — One pound flour, one-half pound sugar, one-half 
pound butter, 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls caraways, milk, and a teaspoonful 
baking powder. 

Mode : Mix butter to a cream, add yolks of eggs, sugar and 
flour (well dried), baking powder, seeds, pinch of salt, and milk to 
make a stiff batter. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add 
them last. Stir very lightly, and bake one and a half hours. 

Sultana cake. — One pound flour, one-half pound sugar, one- 
half pound lard, 3 eggs, 1 pound sultana raisins, the rind of a 
lemon grated, 1 large teaspoonful baking powder, salt and milk. 

Mode : Mix the lard, flour, yolks of eggs, baking powder, pinch 
of salt, sugar, and raisins well together ; and add enough milk to 
make a stiff batter. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and 
add, mix in very lightly, and bake for one and a half hours. 

French cake. — One pound flour, three-fourths pound sugar, one- 
fourth pound butter, 2 eggs, milk, large teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, and salt. 

Mode : Beat butter and eggs to a cream ; add the sugar and 
flour by degrees, and mix with a little milk to a stiff batter, or soft 
dough. Add the salt and baking powder last ; mix all well, and 
bake in a moderate oven one and a half hours. 

Pancakes. — One pound flour, fourth pound sugar, one egg, a 
teaspoonful carbonate of soda, a teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
buttermilk. 

Mode : Beat sugar and egg very lightly, mix in by degrees the 
flour and milk, work well, add soda and cream of tartar last. Take 
a little dripping in a piece of clean muslin, rub over the griddle ; 
drop batter in spoonfuls. When one side is done turn them. 

Pancakes. — Rub 1 pound of flour, 2 ounces dripping, teaspoon- 
ful carbonate of soda, teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-fourth pound 
sugar, all well together. Add buttermilk to make a soft batter. 
Rub the griddle over with dripping, and put a spoonful on for 
each pancake. When one side is done turn. Can be flavored with 
anything that is liked, or currants may be added. 

SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

Mustard Poultices. — Dry mustard, cold water. 

Mix enough cold water with the mustard to make it into a 
thick paste ; when quite smooth spread it upon a piece of thin old 
linen, or cotton ; sew it round so as to form a bag. Be careful not 
to make the poultice larger than required ; hold it to the fire for a 
few minutes, so as not to chill your patient ; time, from fifteen to 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 37 

thirty minutes ; have ready a piece of clean soft cotton, or a piece 
of clean wadding, and when you take off the mustard poultice, put 
on the wadding or the cotton. 

Bread and milk poultice. — Stale bread, cold milk. 

Boil bread with enough milk to make a thick pulp ; spread it 
on a piece of soft cotton, and apply it very hot. This poultice is 
often applied without a cloth between it and the affected part, but 
poultices put into a bag are cleaner and easier rewarmed. Bread 
poultices are cleansing and soothing. 

Linseed meal poultices. — Linseed meal, boiling water. • 

Put sufficient meal to make the poultice the size required into a 
hot bowl, and pour on boiling water enough to make a soft paste ; 
beat quickly for three minutes, or till it looks oily. Have ready a 
flannel, or cotton bag, the size required ; pour in the paste, sew up 
the mouth of the bag quickly. Apply the poultice to the affected 
part as hot as can be borne. 

If ordered with mustard, mix a tablespoonful of dry mustard 
with the meal. Good for inflammation. 

Fomentation of camomile flowers. — Two ounces camomile 
flowers. 

Put into a jar with 2 teacupfuls of water, cover jar very close, 
let it come to the boil, and infuse for fifteen minutes, keeping lid 
close on jar all the time; strain off the hot liquor, keep it hot, dip 
pieces of flannel into it, and apply externally to the part affected. 
Good to allay swelling and inflammation. 

Bran poultice. — Make it like porridge, and put it into a bag. 
Be sure not to make it so soft that any water will trickle down 
to annoy the patient. 

Linseed or flaxseed jelly for a cough. — One pound linseed, 1 
large lemon, one-fourth pound raisins, one-half pound sugar. 

Boil the linseed in 2 quarts of water, then let it simmer for 
three hours ; strain ; return to the pot with raisins and pulp of 
lemon, and simmer, without boiling, one hour ; strain again, add 
the sugar. Take a teaspoonful (two or three times a day). This 
is very good. 

Gruel. — Two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, 2 cups of cold water, 
half teaspoonful sugar, pinch of salt. 

Put the oatmeal into a bowl with the cold water, let it stand for 
fifteen minutes ; then with a spoon press all the water from the oat- 
meal, and pour into the pan, leaving the meal as dry as possible ; 
put the pan on the fire, and stir it till it boils ; then simmer for 
ten minutes, add the sugar, and serve hot. 



38 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

Some prefer gruel without sugar, and some with milk instead of 
water, or a little butter and a scrape of nutmeg. 

Barley water. — Two tablespoonfuls of barley, 2 quarts of water, 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

Wash the barley well ; put the barley and water into a sauce- 
pan and bring it to the boil ; then boil very slowly for two hours, 
strain it, add sugar, and let it cool. Barley water is very cooling 
and nourishing. The barley may afterwards be used for a pudding, 
or put into soup. 

Beef tea. — One-half pound gravy beef, 2 gills water. 

Cut the beef very small; put it into a jar, sprinkle a very little 
salt over it to draw out the juice of the meat quickly, add the 
water, cover the jar with paper twisted close over it ; let it stand 
for half an hour; place the jar in a pan of boiling water; keep it 
boiling for half an hour, and you will have good, nutritious beef 
tea, easily digested by an invalid. 

Veal tea. — One pound veal, 1 large cup of water. 

Cut the veal up very small, sprinkle a very little salt over it ; 
put it into a jar, add the water, cover closely with paper ; let it 
stand for half an hour; place the jar in a saucepan of boiling 
water, and let it boil for two hours. 

Suet or milk porridge for invalids. — One tablespoonful suet, 2 
tablespoonfuls flour, 1 teacup of milk, a little salt. 

Mince the suet very fine; mix milk and flour till smooth, then 
put into a pan ; add suet and a pinch of salt ; boil very gently for 
ten minutes, and serve hot. This is very good and nourishing, 
especially for those who can not take cod liver oil. 

Fish for an invalid. — One small fish, a small sprig of parsley, 
1 tablespoonful of milk. 

Get a nice, fresh white fish ; clean it well ; put it into a small 
jelly jar with the milk and parsley well washed, cover very closely 
with paper, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water at the side of 
the fire for half an hour. This is a very light way of cooking fish 
for an invalid. It can be skinned and boned if preferred. 

Egg with tea, coffee, cocoa, or milk. — Break the egg into a tea- 
cup, beat with a fork till well mixed ; pour in the tea, coffee, cocoa, 
or milk, gradually stirring all the time. This is very nourishing, 
and good in cases of exhaustion from overwork or strain. 

Lemonade. — One lemon, a large cup of boiling water. 

Roll the lemon on the table to soften it ; pare the rind very 
thin (for the white part is very bitter), squeeze the juice into a jug, 
taking care not to let any pips in, as they are too bitter, add the 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN's WIVES. 39 

lemon rind and the boiling water, cover the jug; let it stand till 
cold, strain and use. Very cooling. 

For a pleasant drink add a teaspoonful of sugar ; but not in 
cases of sickness. 

Breadberry, or toast water. — One slice bread, a large cup of 
boiling water. 

Toast the bread on both sides till quite dry and a nice brown, 
but not burnt; break it, and put it in a jug, pour the boiling water 
over it, and cover ; let it stand till cold, and strain. Cooling. 

Koumiss, or milk wine. — One quart buttermilk, 2 quarts sweet 
milk, 4 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

Mix the buttermilk and sweet milk together, add the sugar, and 
stir till melted. Let it stand near the kitchen fire for twelve hours 
covered with a cloth, then bottle. As it is an effervescing drink, 
the cork must be tied down and the bottles kept on their sides. 
When the koumiss is opened it should be used. 

ROASTING. 

To ascertain the length of time required for roasting, weigh the 
meat, and allow a quarter of an hour to every pound, and one- 
quarter of an hour over. If, however, the piece of meat is very 
thick, allow half an hour over. Young and white meat (veal, 
lamb, pork,) requires twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty 
minutes over. They are unwholesome when underdone. 

Before beginning to roast sweep up the hearth and make up a 
large fire in a well-polished fireplace an hour before it is wanted, 
so as to have it bright and glowing. Do not let the fire go down 
while the meat is roasting; add small pieces of coal or large 
cinders occasionally so as to keep it up. Hang the meat, by the 
small end, to the hook of the jack. When there is no jack the 
meat may be hooked to a skein of twisted worsted, suspended from 
a hook projected from the mantel shelf. Wind up the jack, or 
twist the worsted, so as to make it spin slowly. Place the dripping- 
pan under the joint. If you have a meat screen, see that it is 
bright (so as to throw back the heat upon the joint), and place it 
before the fire. Meat should be placed for the first ten minutes as 
near the fire as possible, without scorching ; the great heat hardens 
the outside, and keeps in the juices. Baste it as soon as the 
fat melts. Basting prevents the meat from becoming dry and 
scorched. Then withdraw the meat 18 or 20 inches from the fire, 
and baste it very frequently while roasting with the dripping pro- 
duced by the melting of the fat. If the meat is lean it must be 



40 COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 

basted with dripping melted for the purpose. The meat may be 
dredged with flour a quarter of an hour before it is quite ready, to 
make it browner and to thicken the gravy a little. When it is 
ready and placed on the ashet, sprinkle it with a little salt. Before 
making sauce of the brown gravy pour away the dripping from 
the dripping-pan (keep this dripping for other purposes) ; add a 
little boiling water to the brown gravy left in the pan ; mix well ; 
add a little salt, and pour it round the roast, not over, or it will 
sodden the meat. 

To roast meat in the oven. — Place the meat in a baking tin, in 
a very hot part of the oven, for five minutes, to harden the outside 
and keep in the juice. Baste it as soon as the fat melts ; then re- 
move it to a cooler part. Place beside it a cup, or basin, of water 
to keep the air of the oven moist without cooling it. Baste the 
meat frequently. For the length of time required, see preceding 
directions. 

All ovens in which meat is cooked should be properly ven- 
tilated, in order to allow the escape of an injurious vapor produced 
by meat when cooked in a close oven. Meat roasted in the oven 
is not considered so digestible as when roasted before the fire. 

Roasting in the pot or saucepan. — This way of roasting is espe- 
cially suitable for small pieces of meat, and is far more economical, 
because of the small quantity of fuel required. Melt and heat a 
tablespoonful of dripping in a pot. Brown all sides of the meat in 
this, so as to harden the outside and keep in the juices. Then 
draw the pot to the side of the fire and let the meat cook slowly 
with the lid on, basting it frequently. Time required, same as in 
previous directions. 

FRYING. 

To fry a steak. — Having got your steak, which must not be 
thinner than half an inch, and not thicker than an inch, take the 
suet, which is always given with the steak, chop it fine ; see that 
your pan is perfectly clean and dry. Place the pan on the fire 
with the suet; let it remain until the suet is melted and rather 
hot. Take hold of the steak at one end with a fork, dip it in the 
pan, and keep it for two minutes; then turn the other side for two 
or three minutes, according to the heat of the fire; then turn it. 
It will take about twelve minutes to cook, and requires to be 
turned on each side three times during the cooking. Take care 
that the pan is not too hot, or it will burn the gravy, and perhaps 
the meat, and lose all the nutriment; you must not leave the pan, 



COOKERY FOR WORKING-MEN'S WIVES. 41 

but carefully watch it all the time. If not turned very often it 
will be noticed that the gravy will come out on the upper surface 
of the meat, which in turning over will go into the pan and be 
lost, instead of remaining in the meat. Always, in lifting, insert 
the fork in the fat. Serve on hot plates with salt, pepper, and the 
gravy round it. 

To fry a mutton chop. — Get some nice loin chops, cut the same 
thickness all through. Have your frying-pan very clean; put in 
a little dripping or lard ; let it get rather hot. As soon as it begins 
to smoke take the chop with a fork by the small end and dip it in 
the fat for a minute; then turn it and let it fry for three minutes ; 
you can turn it several times, it will take ten minutes to cook a 
chop an inch thick with a good, clear fire. Add salt and pepper; 
have a nice hot plate, and lift carefully, always putting the fork in 
fat. Pour the gravy round it. 

To broil a rump steak. — Get your steak three-quarters of an 
inch thick (if it should be cut rather thicker in one part than 
another, beat it well with a chopper). Before cooking a steak stir 
up the fire (say half an hour before you intend to use it) ; clear 
away the ashes ; stir all the dead cinders from the bottom, and in 
a few minutes you will have a clear fire fit for the use of the grid- 
iron. Place your gridiron, with the steak, about 5 inches above 
the fire, and keep constantly turning the steak, to keep the gravy 
in. Put the fork, not into the lean part, but into the fat to turn 
it. One pound of steak three-quarters of an inch thick will take 
about twelve or fifteen minutes to cook with a nice clear fire. 
Serve hot on a hot plate. 

WASTE IN COOKING. 

The following table shows how much is wasted in some of the 
different ways of cooking : 

Four pounds of beef, in boiling or stewing, wastes about 1 
pound of its substance ; but you have it all in the broth or gravy, 
if you have kept the pot closely covered. 

In baking 1£ pounds is almost entirely lost, unless you have 
plenty of vegetables in the dripping-pan to absorb and preserve it. 

In roasting before the fire you lose nearly 1J pounds. Do not 
think you save the waste in the shape of dripping. It is poor 
economy to buy fat at the price of meat merely for the pleasure of 
frying it out. 



42 HINTS ON WASHING, ETC. 



GENERAL HINTS. 

It is very desirable that all cooked food should be taken hot. 
When cold food is taken it reduces the temperature of the stomach ; 
and both the nerves and vessels of the stomach are taxed, in order 
to bring the temperature of the food thus taken up to that of the 
human body. So in taking hot soup, tea, coffee, or cocoa we pre- 
vent this tax upon the internal organs. When people have been 
overexerted or had a long fast it is better for them to have a little 
hot soup or a cup of cocoa, and wait for half an hour before they 
take their dinner ; by that time they are rested, the hot soup or 
cocoa has refreshed and invigorated the stomach as no wine or 
spirit could have done. 

Before beginning to cook be careful to see that you have a clear 
fire in a clean grate, and that your pots and pans are thoroughly 
clean. To clean pots, first clean the inside out well with pot-range, 
then wash them both inside and out with hot water and some 
washing soda ; then take a cloth, with a little soap rubbed on it, 
dip it in fine ashes, with this rub the inside of the pot till it is 
quite clean, then wash it with warm water and dry. Do the lid in 
the same way. 

Fish, if at all plentiful, is always cheaper on Thursdays, Fridays, 
and Saturdays, and can be had at the time the shops close at less 
than half price, if they have any over. For those who study 
economy this is worth remembering, as they can thus provide a 
good, cheap dinner for the next day. 

Pieces of dry cheese, which the grocers are glad to get rid of 
very cheap, do excellently for cooking and grating. 

Soap parings in the same way can be got very much cheaper, 
and are quite as good for boiling down for washing purposes. 



HINTS ON WASHING, ETC. 

Washing is always best done early in the week, say Tuesday ; 
then you have the week before you to dry, etc. Mend what re- 
quires to be mended the day before. Soak your things before 
washing; if this is done it saves a great deal of trouble and hard 
rubbing. Boil the soap, and mix a handful of boiled soap to every 
gallon of hot water, with a little soda or borax (borax is better for 
the fine things). Into this put the shirts and linen, collars, etc., to 
soak all night. Bed and table linen can either be soaked in cold 



HINTS ON WASHING, ETC. 43 

water or laid aside till its turn comes. Curtains or window blinds 
should always be soaked in cold water to draw out the smoke. 

Flannels should be well shaken, to free them from dust, and put 
together by themselves. 

Begin your washing as early as possible in the morning. First 
light your boiler fire and have plenty of hot water. If it is fine, 
wash your flannels first. Add a little hot water to the soaked 
things, taking the best things first. Wash them out carefully, re- 
moving all stains. Then put them into another tub with warm 
water and melted soap, and wash them again ; and, as they are 
finished, drop them into a tub of cold water, and let them lie in it 
for a while. 

Fill up the boiler with cold water, put into it a handful of 
melted soap, 1 teaspoonful of borax to the gallon of water. Wring 
the clothes out of the cold water, put them in the boiler, put on the 
lid, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Then take 
them out, add more water, soap, and borax, and put in the next 
quantity. Pour some cold water on the boiled clothes, wash them 
and rinse them out, then blue them. Put a little water in the tub 
and tinge it well with blue. Do not allow things to lie in blue 
water, but just dip each article in separately, and wring them out. 
When all are finished hang them out to dry. 

If possible, bleach your clothes on grass after boiling ; but where 
this can not be done it is yet possible, with care, to keep your linen 
white and clear. 

Laces and muslin should not be rubbed, but squeezed with the 
hands in melted soap and warm water. Be careful, in boiling 
them, to tie them up in a handkerchief to prevent their being 
torn. 

In washing flannels (notice particularly), to keep them a good 
color and to prevent their shrinking, get from the grocer 1 or 2 
pounds (according to the size of your washing) of soap parings, 
which you will get cheap; for 1 pound of soap parings put 3 
quarts of water ; boil to a jelly, and with this wash your flannels. 
Be sure you have plenty of water warm, not too hot. Put in a 
handful of your soap jelly, and mix thoroughly in the water ; then 
take the flannels, one at a time, shake all dust out of them, then 
sluice the articles up and down well ; rub as little as possible, for 
rubbing knots the little loops of wool together and thickens the 
flannel; wring them in a machine, if you have one, if not, squeeze 
them well. Dry in the open air, if weather permits, as quickly 
as possible. 



44 HINTS ON WASHING, ETC. 

In washing scarlet or the blue flannel, put one tablespoonful 
spirits ammonia in the rinsing water. 

For other woolen articles, such as children's dresses, shawls, etc., 
where there are green or other fancy colors, add to your soap jelly 
one-half gill of spirits of turpentine, and a tablespoonful of spirits 
of hartshorn ; then thoroughly wash as quickly as possibly ; rinse 
in cold water with a little salt in it, and dry quickly. If this is 
done carefully, the colors will remain quite fresh. 

For prints. — Never rub them with soap. Boil the soap as for 
flannel, add to water, and wash as quickly as possible ; then in the 
rinsing water put a few drops of vitriol, just sufficient to make it 
taste a little tart ; this will fasten all colors except black, but black 
fades. For black prints better use salt or a little spirits of turpen- 
tine in the rinsing water. 

To make hot water starch. — Take a clean basin, and mix to 1 
large tablespoonful of starch, 1 teaspoonful spirits of turpentine, 1 
teaspoonful spirits of ammonia, with only enough cold water to 
make into a smooth paste ; then pour boiling water (it must be 
boiling) over it, stirring all the time till it is quite transparent. 

To make cold water starch. — To a large tablespoonful of starch 
put half a teaspoonful borax, half a teaspoonful spirits of turpen- 
tine, mix with a little cold water to a paste ; then add cold water 
to make the starch to the thickness of cream ; stir well, and put in 
the things ; if the things to be starched are dry, you will have to 
make the starch thinner. 

To starch and iron a shirt. — The linen should be rather damp ; 
dip the front, collar, and cuffs of shirt into the starch, squeeze them 
well out, and roll up tight for some hours ; then shake out and 
pull them quite straight, leaving no creases; rub them over with a 
piece of soft cloth. Fold the skirt straight down the back. Iron 
all the unstarched part first, then the cuffs, then the band. To 
gloss the front place a smooth board, covered with flannel, inside 
the breast, rub over the front of the shirt with a damp cloth and 
iron (with the heel of the iron) very nicely till quite dry and 
glossy. 

In ironing be careful always to rub the iron over something 
of little value first ; this will prevent the scorching and smearing 
of many articles. 

To wash clothes with paraffine oil. — To every 8 gallons of cold 
water put one-fourth pound soap, shred fine, 1J tablespoonfuls of 
paraffine oil, into a boiler ; put in the clothes, let them come to 
the boil, keep the lid close on boiler, and steam for half an hour; 



SANITARY HINTS. 45 

take out the clothes, rub any parts not quite clean, and rinse in 
plenty of cold water. 

To wash clothes in paraffine soap. — Cut down one-half pound 
paraffine soap, and put it into a boiler of water to melt. Rub the 
clothes well out of the soda water, in which they have previously 
been soaked, put them into a boiler and let them boil for half an 
hour, then put them into a tub with plenty of cold water ; wash 
them thoroughly, then rinse in blue water, and dry. 



SANITARY HINTS. 

(1) Remember that pure air is food, and that polluted air is 
poison. 

(2) Never allow the air to stagnate in your rooms or houses. 

(3) Provide for the constant ventilation of your rooms. One of 
the best ways of doing this is keeping the window a little down 
from the top.. 

(4) Keep the vent always open. 

(5) Thoroughly air all sleeping apartments, beds, and bed 
clothes during the day. 

(6) Do not use, for drinking or cooking, water which has long 
lain stagnant in cisterns or vessels. 

(7) See that the water cistern is cleaned out regularly, say every 
month or two. 

(8) See that there is no connection between the water cistern 
and the drain, and that the waste goes to the outside of the house. 

(9) Do everything in your power to keep closets and sinks 
cleanly and sweet. 

(10) See that the private drains from closets are ventilated by 
pipe opening at the roof. 

(11) See that the private drains from closet and sinks are properly 
trapped, in order that the poisonous gases from the sewers may not 
get into the house. 

(12) The neglect of this precaution is a fruitful cause for many 
of the worst diseases, such as diphtheria, typhoid fever, etc. 

(13) When you need to use disinfectants, as after fever, etc., re- 
member that they do not radically cure the evil. The only remedy 
is the removal of the causes of impure air or water which has pro- 
duced the evil. 

(14) Avoid the use of covered (or " press") beds, the most whole- 
some being a plain iron bed without any curtains. 



46 HINTS ON WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES. 

(15) In cases of sickness all utensils, etc., should be kept scrupu- 
lously clean, and the precautions suggested above as to main- 
taining a supply of pure air should be observed with redoubled 
vigilance. 

HINTS ON WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES. 

Croup. — Croup, or inflammatory sore throat, is caused by ex- 
posure to cold, damp air, or sudden change of weather. The signs 
are hoarseness and noisy breathing. Give the child a teaspoonful 
of ipecacuanha wine. If vomiting does not soon follow, give half 
the quantity. Keep the child in bed. Put a brick into the fire 
until it is quite hot; place a bucket of water at the bedside; put 
the hot brick into it, which will raise a large quantity of warm 
vapor, which the child will breathe. Apply a warm poultice 
to the throat and use warm fomentations. Milk is the best 
diet. If the above does not relieve, send for medical advice 
without delay. 

A very good and simple remedy for croup is a teaspoonful of 
powdered alum and 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar ; mix with a little 
water and give it, as quickly as possible, a little at a time, and in- 
stant relief will be given. 

Diphtheria. — What goes by the popular name of croup is, in a 
great many instances, really diphtheria, which is a contagious 
general disease of great danger. The chief characteristic is the 
formation of a thick, tough, false membrane on the palate, tonsils, 
and back of the throat, spreading downwards into the windpipe. 
The signs are great loss of strength (never absent), the formation 
of the above-named membrane, sometimes high fever, as often no 
rise in the temperature. Sometimes eruptions in the skin appear. 
Whenever the above signs can be traced get medical advice with- 
out a moment's delay. 

Common cold. — In the case of a child, confine the child to one 
room, or, if at all feverish, to bed. Apply a warm poultice to chest, 
and give 10 drops of ipecacuanha wine every hour or two till 
patient perspires and feels a little sick. In the case of a grown-up 
person, confine to house and keep patient warm. Mix 30 drops 
antimonial wine, 80 grains of citrate of potash, 3 teaspoonfuls of 
syrup, or a little sugar, in 4 ounces of water (an ounce is 2 tablespoon- 
fuls). Give an ounce of this every three or four hours. If the cough 
lingers, a teaspoonful of paregoric, with 20 drops of ipecacuanha 
wine in a little water, should be given at bedtime. 



HINTS ON WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES. 47 

Useful homely recipe for a cold and cough. — One ounce Span- 
ish juice, 2 ounces honey, one-half pound treacle, Id worth lauda- 
num, Id. worth oil of peppermint, 1 pint of water. 

Boil down 1 pint of water, with the Spanish juice, honey, and 
treacle in it, to a gill ; let it get cold, and add laudanum and oil of 
peppermint. Bottle tight, and shake the bottle before using. 
Dose for an adult, a tablespoonful night and morning. 

Fainting. — At once make patient lie down, with the head quite 
low. Loosen articles of dress. Let patient have plenty of air, and 
keep people from crowding round. Apply smelling salts, cau- 
tiously, to nose. Sprinkle face with a little cold water smartly. If 
faint continues long, or feet and hands are cold, apply hot bottles, 
and when patient can swallow give a teaspoonful of sal volatile in 
water, or a little spirits in water. 

Fits. — This means either apoplexy or epilepsy. Apoplexy is 
attended with insensibility. The patient falls, generally, but not 
always, grows purple in the face, and breathes in a snoring man- 
ner. There is paralysis of one side, and the mouth is drawn to 
one side. Place patient in bed, with head raised. If hot, apply 
cold water to head, and send for doctor. 

In epilepsy patient usually gives a scream, becomes deadly pale, 
falls on his face, becomes convulsed, and then profoundly insen- 
sible. While in this state all that need be done is to loosen articles 
of dress and keep patient quiet and beyond danger of hurting 
himself until sensibility returns. It is then a case for medical 
treatment. 

Choking. — Choking arises from food, or fluids, or other substances 
sticking in the throat or passing into the air passages. In bad 
choking, where the patient suddenly turns dark in the face, etc., no 
time is to be lost. Open the mouth and push your forefinger in a 
determined way over the tongue, right back, and try to hook away 
or push aside the hindrance. If this does not succeed, you may, by 
pressing the hinder portion of the tongue, bring on vomiting, and 
so secure relief. A good plan is sometimes tried with children, 
viz, that of pressing the chest and stomach against something 
hard, as a table or a chair, then slapping or thumping the back 
between the shoulder blades. In this way air is driven from the 
lungs through the windpipe so forcibly as often to expel the ob- 
stacle. When the obstruction consists of a coin, as often in the 
case of children, a good plan is at once to take the child up by the 
heels and at the same time give it a shake, or slap its back. Fish 
bones can sometimes be got rid of by swallowing a mouthful of 

0? TH3S v 

7BR3IT7S 



^CiTCftf^ 



48 HINTS ON WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES. 

bread. If these remedies fail, medical help should at once be 
called in. 

Suffocation by gases. — Drag the patient as quickly as possible 
into fresh air ; loose clothing ; dash cold water on head, face, and 
upper part of chest. If the breathing has stopped, artificial re- 
spiration must be resorted to. 

Poisoning. — Send at once for the nearest doctor, telling him all 
the particulars, so that he may bring what is necessary. Unless 
the poison is an irritant, such as oil of vitriol or the like, which 
burns or destroys the stomach, etc., do all you can to make the 
patient sick. You may give a tablespoonful of mustard in a 
tumbler of warm water, or the same amount of common salt with 
warm water. If the patient is drowsy, as from poisoning by nar- 
cotics, you must do all you can to keep him awake by dashing 
cold water on his head and face, walking him about, etc. Do not 
permit him to sleep. In cases of poisoning by irritants, emetics 
should not be given, but you should try to save the stomach as 
much as possible by giving soothing drinks, as milk, etc. Always 
try to find out what the poison taken has been. You will generally 
be able to recognize a case of irritant poison, even if the patient can 
not tell you, by the stains on the clothes, lips, etc., the burning sen- 
sation of the mouth, the terrible suffering of the stomach, the 
retching, and vomiting of blood, etc. Medical advice must in any 
case of poison be called in with the utmost haste. 

Poisoning by alcohol, or drunkenness. — Get the patient under 
cover as soon as possible. If insensible, rouse him by dashing cold 
water on the face. Endeavor to make the patient vomit. Rub the 
surface of the body with warm, dry cloths; wrap the patient in 
blankets ; put hot water bottles to his feet, and do all you can to 
keep up the heat of body, which is always lowered in the state of 
intoxication. 

Broken limbs. — The thing to be first done is to keep the limb 
quite steady till the surgeon comes. This is done by placing on 
each side of the broken limb whatever may be at hand, such as 
slips of wood, small pillows, an umbrella, the stock and barrel of a 
gun, or two walking sticks, or even firmly rolled straw, or pads of 
cotton wool, and retaining them in their position by one or two 
handkerchiefs, not tied too tightly. Never raise the patient from 
the ground until the nature of his injury has been ascertained, or 
some appliance has been made to prevent the movement of the 
broken limb. Then raise him, if possible, with the help of several 
persons, and, as it were, in one solid piece, all moving together, 



HINTS ON WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES. 49 

and keeping step in carrying. If a patient has to be carried 
home, let it be on a shutter, or a table, or a stretcher, on which he 
can lie flat, instead of being doubled up in a cab; as is often done. 
It is from neglect of this simple rule that broken bones are often 
made to protrude through the flesh, simple being thus turned 
into compound fractures, attended by the risk of the limb being 
lost. 

What to do when dress catches fire. — The following are the 
directions given in Dr. Robert's book on ambulance work : " If 
your own dress, throw yourself at once on the ground, so that the 
rising flames may not catch the upper part of your clothes nor 
burn your head and chest ; roll about (so putting the flames out by 
pressure), and at the same, if possible, wrap yourself up closely in 
a rug, hearth rug, blanket, table cloth, overcoat, or carpet, so as to 
smother the fire. Do not get up to call for assistance, but for that 
purpose crawl to the bell rope or door. If another person's dress, 
throw the person on fire down at once, wrap him or her up in a 
rug or something similar, or, if there is nothing at hand suitable, 
use your own coat, rolling the patient about in it, for the purpose 
of smothering the flames." A woman rendering help in this way 
must exercise great self-possession, and be careful not to get her 
own clothes entangled in the flames. 

Measles and scarlet fever. — When measles or infectious dis- 
eases are prevalent in a neighborhood, and a child shows symptoms 
of cold in the head and fever, it is a reason for immediate careful- 
ness. The diet should be light, cooling, scanty, and the child 
should be kept indoors. In its ordinary course measles is unac- 
companied by danger, but the mildest form may be quickly con- 
verted, by want of care, into the most dangerous. The parent 
should carefully watch the symptoms of change, and if a child 
complains of piercing headache, intolerance of light, etc., the doctor 
should be called in at once. It is also most dangerous to resort, 
without advice, to spirits and such remedies to bring out the rash 
if it suddenly disappears. Sometimes the disappearance of the rash 
may be traced to careless exposure to cold. In this case the child 
should be instantly, and without hesitation, put into a warm bath, 
care being taken to prevent subsequent cold. Often, however, 
the cause of the disappearance may be dependent on internal in- 
flammation or too high fever, and medical advice should be at 
once procured. 

Indigestion. — Among the most common causes of indigestion 
are the undue use of strong or too long infused tea (which, taken 



50 HINTS OX WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES. 

without food and in excess, is destructive), the use of new bread, 
and eating too fast. 

Teeth. — If people wish to preserve their teeth they should 
brush them, especially at night, gently with a short, soft brush, 
moved up and down so as to remove remnants of food, etc., lodging 
between the teeth, and so destroying the enamel. This precaution 
involves little or no expense, and the trouble will be well repaid. 
When iron tonic or acid mixtures have to be taken they should 
always be sucked through a glass tube, which can be got at any 
chemist's for a penny or two. Doctors often forget to remind 
patients of this, and, in consequence, the teeth grow prematurely 
black or loosen and decay. 

Recovery from sickness. — When patients are recovering from 
measles and scarlet fever the greatest care must be taken to avoid 
chills. From the neglect of this precaution after-consequences of 
the most serious character often occur. Children recovering from 
these illnesses should be warmly clothed and kept out of cold 
draughts until they have quite regained strength. It is also the 
duty of parents who have children suffering from the above dis- 
eases to prevent healthy people from coming near them, particu- 
larly in the case of scarlet fever, until the stage of peeling of the 
skin is quite over, when the patient should be well washed with 
carbolic soap. The bed and bedding should be disinfected as well 
as the clothing. 

Intoxicating drink. — The abuse of intoxicating drink is the 
curse of this country. It is the fruitful parent of crime, disease, 
premature death, and domestic misery in every shape and degree. 
The judges, with one accord, say that if the people could only be 
made to abstain from the use of intoxicating drinks more than 
half the prisons might be shut up. Men and women who are 
tempted to sin in this w T ay should abstain entirely. For these 
there is but one rule of safety — taste not, touch not. Industry, 
thrift, and strict temperance, these are the simple rules which, by 
the divine blessing, secure health and lasting happiness. 






San Jose Mercury. 



OHAKLES M. 8HOKTK1DGE 

Editok & Publisher. 

I SSUED EVERY DAY IN THE YBAK. 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES. 

The Daily Mercury Is published every day 
lo tho year at the following rates: 

Per Annum by mall (iu advance) $6 00 

Six Montis " " 3 00 

Three Months " " 150 

Per Month, delivered oy carrier 50 | 

The Wekkly Mkrcury is published every Sat- 
urday morning at the following rates: * 

Per Annum (in advance) $2 00 1 

Six Mouths ' ..' 1*0 

Three Months " .. ... {50 1 

County OflToial Paper. 
MONDAY. - OCTOBElT6ri89r. 



What is Being Done for 
Them at New Almaden. 



THE VALUABLE INSTRUCTION GIVEN. 



Result of the Techuical Schools Es- 
tablished Under the Direction 
of Hon. James B. Kandol. 

Hon. James B. Kandol, Superintendent 
of the New Almaden quicksilver mines, 
takes an active interest in the welfare of the 
people employed at the works and their 
families, and the social features of their 
lives are made pleasant and profitable in 
j! many ways through his benevolent and 
kindly help. 

The latest institution started under his 
direction is a technical school, which will 
prove of great benefit to the children of j^ie 
employes of the mine, and, in fact, it has 
already been such, although established 
but a few months ago. 

The school embraces most useful branches 
of practical knowledge for boys and girls, 
and has separate branches on the Hill and 
at the Hacienda. Great credit is due to 
Col. P. Von Leicbt, chairman of the 
schools, for the success of the work, and 
also to his amiable wife, the latter 
having attended daily the sewing school at 
the Hacienda and personally supervised 
the work of every pupil with a degree of 
skill and intelligence possessed by few 
pupils. Another commendable fact is that 
the instruction was all given by home 
talent and the results are so encou raging 
that there will be a renewal of the work 
next year at the summer vacation. 

The following extracts from the report of 
Col. Von Leicht will prove of general in- 
terest : 

"J. B. Randol, Esq. — DeakSib: I have 
the honor to submit herewith a report on 
the 'technical schools' at New Almaden 
which were started this year under your 
ausninps • 



Oi 



• \ "The schools commenced on the 7th of 

■ July and continued regularly until the 22d 
;:jOf August, a term of seven weeks, limited 

■ by the term of vacation in the public 
7\ school, which be*un on Julv 1st and ended 

1 August 31, 1890. The technical 
^schools were established on the Hill 
las well as at the Hacienda, and instruction 
was given in plain cooking, sewing, carpen 
;9try and blacksmith work, both on the Hill 
iand at the Hacienda. The daily course of 
instruction was limited to iwo hours, for 
five days in each wee*. Saturday being al- 
lowed as a holiday. 

THE INSTBUCTOBS. 

"Seven weeks, or thirty-five school days, 
constituted the whole term. The sewing 
school on the Hill, attended by the largest 
number of pupils, fifty-one in the begin- 
ning, was instructed by Mrs. John Trus- 
cott, assisted by Miss Minnie Gilbert. The 
large number of pupils made it necessary 
to divide the class into two divisions one 
being taught in the forenoon and the o'ther 
in the afternoon. A similar division was 
made in the cooking school, the carpenter 
school and the blacksmith school. The 
pupils at the Hacienda not being so numer- 
ous the classes there were not divided 
The cooking school on the Hill was in- 
structed by Mrs. Lizzie Roberts; the car- 
penter school on the Hill was instructed by 
Angel Delmeastro; the blacksmith school 
on the Hill was instructed fey John Harrv. 
"At Hacienda the sewing school was in- 
structed by Mary Higgins; the cooking 
school; was instructed by Miss Lottie Bul- 
more : the carpenter school was instructed 
by Chas. Buzza; and the biacksmith school 
was instructed by Chas. Higgins. 

COURSE OF IN8TBUCTION. 

"The course of instruction at these 
schools was : Sewing school— straight seams, 
hems, and whip seams, gathering, button- 
holes, patchwork and tucking; cooking 
school— bread-making, puddings, pastry, 
cakes, roasting meats and cooking beans ; 
carpenter school— use of the chisel, saw 
and plane, cross-cut and rip-sawing driv- 
ing nails, making boxes, paring with chisel 
chamfering, making lap joints, mortising 
and mitre joints, dovetailidg, planing to di- 
mensions ; blacksmith school— heating and 
shaping iron, making bolts, staples, clev- 
ises, hooks, welding, making links, temper- 
ing steel, drilling holes, making washers 
and tapping nuts. 

HILI, SCHOOLS. 

"The sewing school enrolled fifty-one 
pupils ; thirteen of these attended school 
in July only, leaving thirty-eight pupils at 
the end of the term. Total days' attend- 
ance, 977 ; average for each pupil enrolled, 
19.16 days. This average was exceeded by 
twenty-nine pupils; twelve of these more 
than twenty-nine days. 

"The cooking school enrolled thirty-three 
pupils. Fifteen of these attended school 
in July only, and one pupil in August 
only, seventeen pupils being present at the 
end of the term. Total days' attendance 
324; average for each pupil, 9.82 days 
Seventeen pupils exceeded this average • of 
these two pupils more than twenty days 
and one pupil over thirtv days. Pupils' 
were given permission to attend both 
classes of instruction, sewing and cooking 
Twenty pupils were enrolled in both classes'; 
at the end of the term only nine were 
present iu both classes. 

"The carpenter school enrolled thirty-six 
pupils, twelve of which attended school in 
July only, leaving twenty-four pupils pres- 
ent at the end of the term. Total days at- 
tendance, 791 ; average for each pupil en- 
rolled, twenty - two days. Twenty-two 
ils exce e ded this average; of these thir 



teen pupils attending school thirty days 
and over. 

"The blacksmith school enrolled twenty- 
one pupils, and all were present at the end 
of the term. The total days attendance 
was 698; average for each pupil, 33.24-100 
days. Thirteen pupils attended school 
each day of the term, and only three pupils 
for less than thirty days. 

HACIENDA SCHOOLS. 

"The sewing school enrolled twenty-six 
pupils, eighteen of which were present at 
the end of the term. Eight pupils attended 
school in July only. Total days attend- 
ance, 574; average per scholar enrolled, 26. 
Fourteen pupils exceeded this average. 

"The cooking school enrolled thirteen 
pupils, nine being present at the end of the 
term. Total days attendance. 351 ; average, 
27 days. Nine pupils exceeded this average, 
and seven of these attended school every 
day of the term. Eleven pupils enrolled in 
the sewing and cooking schools at the same 
time, and nine of these were present at the 
end of the term. 

''The carpenter school enrolled thirteen 
pupil.", and had eleven present at the end of 
the term. Total days attendance, 339; aver- 
age, 26 days—exceeded by eleven boys; of 
these seven attended school more that 30 
days. 

"The blacksmith school enrolled twelve 
pupils, eight of which were present at the 
end of the term. Total days attendance, 
212; average, 17% days— exceeded by six 
boys ; only one of these attended school 
*very day of the term. 

THE PRIZES. 

"The distribution of prizes has been made 
by the several committees after a careful 
inspection of the work done by the pupils, 
the age of the pupil having been taken in 
consideration. Altogether the work done 
by the pupils is very creditable, considering 
their age, and the short term of instruction, 
and some pupils have shown much intelli- 
gence and great aptitude." 

The foil wing prizes were awarded in the 
Hill schools: Sewing — Janie Martin, An- 
nie Harrower, first prizes, each $3. Bertha 
Tregoning, Dora Dunstan, A. Cistema, A. 
A. Collins, Lizzie Drew, second prizes, each 
$2. Lena Toy, Julia Smith, Esperanza 
Montijo, Edith Drew, Annie Biswarick, 
Philippa Harris, C. Cistema, Ethel Che- 
quin, Ellen Harris, third prizes, each $1. 
Annie Bennetts, Annie Hoking, attendance, 
each $1. Selina Odgers, Mabel Collins, 
Isabel Mendizabal, each 60 cents. Total: 
Two first prizes, $6; five second prizes, $10; 
nine third prizes, $9; attendance, $2; be- 
havior, $1.50,— $2§ 50. 

Cooking— Maud Eslick, first prize, $3; 
Janie Geach, Annie Tonkin, second prize, 
$2; Lena Toy, Esperanza Montijo, Edith 
Drew, third prize, $1; Nellie Bone, Rosa 
Moreno. Eliza George, attendance, 75 cents j 
Nellie Berryman, 50 cents. Total: One 
first prize, $3; two second prizes, $4; three 
third prizes, $3; attendance, $2.25; be- 
havior, 50 cents— $12.75. 

Carpenters— Chas. Bone, first prhje, $3; 



kin, second prize, $2; John Delmastro, 
Willie Odgers, J as. Job, Joe Montijo, Harry I 
TerriH tbire prize. $1 ; John James, Frank 
Gambia, Miguel Pena, Fred Andrews, at- 
tendance. 75 cents; John Beswarick, Benny I 
Doidge, 50 cents. Total: One first prize, 
$3- three second prizes, $6; five third 
prizes, $5; attendance, behavior. $4- $18. 

Blacksmiths — Harry Woolcock, first 
prize $3; Willie Harry. John Bone, Johnnie 
Kemp, second prize, $2; Tommy Hams 
Willie Tregoning, Arthur Montijo. third 
prize. $1; Josie Harris, Santiago Garcia, 
Cruz Pena, Willie Pascoe. Joe Moreno, <5 
cents. Total: One first prize, $3; three 
second prizes, $6; three third prizes, $3; at- 
tendance, $3.75-$15.75. ■■'.--. 

The prizes in the Hacienda schools were 
i as follows: Sewing- Annie Buzza, n.-st 
prize, $3; Josie Cantua. Llllie Buzza, second 
prize, each $2; Mabel Barrett Erva Mc- 
Comas, Livie Higgins. Rosie Higgms, 1 
third prizes, each $1; attendance-Maggie 
Lawlor, Mable Buzza, $1 ; Came Lawlor, 50 
cents. Total : One first prize, $3 ; two sec- 
ond prizes $4, four third prizes, $4; attend- 
ance,|$2.50-$13.50. 

Cooking— Blanche Bairett, first prize, $3; 
Lottie Buzza, second prize. $2; Mabel Bar- 
rett, third prize, $1; Phillippa Barrett, at- 
tendance, 75 cents. Total, $6.75. 

Carpenters-George Carson, first prize, 
$3; John Stile, second prize, $2; Alma Bul- 
more, H. Dahlgren, (each $1). $2; J. Ander- 
son, attendance, $1. Total, $8. 

Blacksmiths— Jos. Hancock, first prize, 
$3: Peter Barrett, second prize, $2; Wu, 
Lawlor, third prize, $1; F. McComas, at 
tendance, $1. Total. $7. 



JAM 11 I 940 



LIBRARY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 

40 Glonnlnl Hall - Tel. No. 642-4493 

THIS BOOK IS DUE BEFORE CLOSING TIME 
ON LAST DATE STAMPED BELOW 



OCT *5 , m 



LD62-10m-4,'72 
J1636sl0)9412 — A-32 



General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 















XW, 



