



cat..- .• 




i* -,--■. 



»^r- 




T X 

H85 



v^ 



>^ 



M 



.^■# 



LIBRARY OF. CONGRESS. 



Shelf _i_l:i.S..? 

I 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



/ 



tt'T I* 



;% ^ 



Mine Family Dinners. 




B'adlr/ a Co.Phila 



Sarah Biddle Howei.i<. 






^ine IRaiiiiiiJ winner; 



AND 




low 



^ l^reDare ^fKi 



prepare '^^iiein. 



^ 



SARAH BIDDLE HOWELL. 



?n 



'^' 



^^*vRVOFCOa7>S 



A 



'b 



A 






Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1890, by Sarah Biddle Howell, 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



R- 



cf 



NAAR, DAY cS; NAAR, 

BOOK AND JOB PRINTERS, 

TRENTON, N. J. 



□ 



The aim of the compiler of this httle book has been to 
present to the public a few family dinners with directions how 
to prepare them, having in view the maxim, "Let not your 
table be coarsely heaped, but at once plentiful and elegant." 
The menus offer such variety as will enable the housekeeper 
to increase the number of bills of fare, by forming many other 
combinations to suit the different tastes of individuals. All 
the recipes herein given have been well tested and approved. 



Trenton, N. J. 



9TPS 



i.yj 



r)r)c 



Asparagus Soup. 

Flounder, with Tomato Sauce. 

Eoast Saddle of Mutton. 

Fresh Potato Balls. Cauliflower, with Cheese. 

Roast Squab, Chestnut Stuffing. Celery. 

Strawberry Charlotte. 

Coffee. 



6 

Asparagus Soup. 

Boil down a knuckle of veal with three quarts of water, 
adding one onion and three bunches of asparagus, after cutting 
off the green heads, which are to be boiled in water twenty 
niinutes and reserved. When the stock is sufficiently strong, 
strain and add one pint of milk (cream is better) mixed with 
three tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter, season with salt 
and pepper, boil about five minutes, add the asparagus heads 
and serve. Canned asparagus is good, when the fresh is not 
in season. 

Flounder, with Tomato Sauce. 

Have the fish-man skin the flounders and take out the 
back bone. Cut them in neat pieces, and dip each piece in the 
beaten yelk of an egg, then in dried bread crumbs nicely sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. Fry them brown and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Sauce. 

One pint of tomatoes ; 

Six spoonfuls of butter ; 

Two eggs, well beaten ; 

Small handful of bread crumbs ; 

One cup of milk ; 

Little onion ; 

Pepper and salt. 
Scald the tomatoes, skin them, press through a sieve until 
you have one pint of liquid, add the butter, pepper and salt, 
llie bread crumbs soaked in milk, a pinch of soda, the eggs 



beaten light, a little onion thinly sliced. Stew for one and a 
half hour over a slow fire and strain. 

KoAST Saddle of Mutton. 

Like all mutton, this piece is better for hanging. If the 
weather will permit, the longer it is kept the better. Trim the 
piece neatly and have the skin taken off and skewered on 
again. Put it before a bright, clear fire, and when it has cooked 
one hour remove the skin ; salt and dredge with flour. Do not 
let it get in the slightest degree burnt ; keep it constantly basted 
with salt and water from the time it was first placed before the 
fire, and do not have it too near. It will take about two hours 
to roast a saddle of mutton. It must be done to "a turn." 
The basting is of very great importance in this as well as every 
other piece of meat. Serve with currant jelly. Hang the 
mutton in a place of even temperature where it will not freeze. 
The freezing process takes the fine flavor out of any kind of 
meat. 

Fresh Potato Balls. 

Peel the potatoes and, with a vegetable cutter, cut as many 
balls as you can from each potato ; let these balls lie in cold 
water one hour ; wipe them dry and drop in boiling fat ; fry 
about five minutes, take out as soon as done, sprinkle at once with 
salt and serve. A wire basket is a good thing to fry them in. 

Cauliflower, with Cheese. 
After the cauliflowers ?ire boiled, drain, split in pieces, 



8 

sprinkle some grated cheese over them, and put them in a bak- 
ing dish. Make a milk sauce (cream is better) sufficient to 
cover the cauliflower well, grate in this sauce some cheese; the 
sauce must be quite thick. Fill in the crevices of the cauli- 
flower, and cover as much as possible with the sauce. Grate 
over all a little cheesC; sprinkle a little bread crumbs and 
melted butter. Cover again with bread crumbs mixed with 
grated cheese. Cook over a slow fire to form a crust. Twenty- 
minutes before serving run in the oven to brown. This is pro- 
nounced a " delicious dish." 

Roast Squabs, with Chestnut Stuffing. 

Prepare them as for plain roasting, omitting the seasoning 
and butter. For one pair of squabs boil half a pint of chest- 
nuts until they are tender, chop them fine, with one-quarter 
pound of fat bacon and bread crumbs ; stuff the squabs with 
this and cover the birds with strips of bacon or, what is still 
nicer, lard them. Roast one-half hour. 

Strawberry Charlotte. 

Fill a glass dish with sponge cake cut in pieces. Take a 
({uart of strawberries and sugar them well; when they become 
somewhat bruised and juicy pour them over the cake and let 
the cake absorb the juice. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
three eggs, add sugar until very sweet, and beat in enough 
strawberries to flavor and color nicely. Heap on top the sponge 
cake and eat with cream. 



€)eo0r)(a. • ]^ir)i)ep. 



Potage a la Reine. 

Baked Blue Fish. Fresh Potato Balls. 

A la Mode Beef. 

Baked Hominy. Creamed Tomatoes. 

Oysters en Coquille. Dressed Celery. 

Rice Balls with Custard. 

Coffee. 



10 

POTAGE A LA EeINE. 

Boil a large fowl in three quarts of water (cold) until 
tender ; skim off fat, add one tea cup of rice ; then take one 
slice or more of carrot, same of turnip, one onion, small stalk of 
celery, cooked slowly in two large tablespoonfuls of butter in 
frying pan for fifteen minutes. Tilt up pan to drain the vege- 
tables from the butter and stir a tablespoonful of flour into this 
butter and cook the flour smooth but do not brown it. Add this 
to soup with one or two pieces of cinnamon and mace, one- 
half dozen whole cloves ; cook all slowly for two hours. Chop 
and pound the breast of fowl, rub the soup through the sieve, 
add pounded breast, and again rub through sieve. Put back 
on the fire, add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of salt, one- 
quarter teaspoonfal of pepper, one pint of cream, let it just 
come to a boil and serve. 

Blue Fish Baked. 

This is a delicious fish and should be very fresh. Have it 
thoroughly cleaned; make a stufiiing of bread crumbs, one 
tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt, little chopped onion ; put 
this in the stomach of the fish and sew up ; put a little water 
in the baking pan, lay the fish in and dust the top with some 
of the dressing. Bake one hour and baste with butter and 
water. Make a little gravy in the pan it was baked in, thicken 
with brown flour, and flavor with the juice of half a lemon or 
a wine glass of claret or sherry. Garnish the dish on which it 
is to be served with parsley and lay slices of lemon on the 
fish. 



11 

A LA MODE Beef. 

Ten-pound round of beef; 

One slice salt pork, the same of tender beef ; 

Three or four eggs ; 

One-quarter pound of bread crumbs ; 

Lump of butter, or four ounces of suet ; 

Onion, sweet marjoram, salt and pepper ; 

One pint of port wine. 
Take out the bone, make a stuffing of bread crumbs, pork 
and beef (minced fine), seasoning, one wine glass of port wine, 
and the yelks beaten up ; mix all well together and stuff into 
the beef where the bone was taken out. Skewer it round and 
tie securely with a string. A few strips of pork should be run 
through the meat. Put it in a pot with the rest of the wine 
and a cup of hot water. Cover the pot tight Sind keep it covered 
while the meat boils very gently; in replenishing with hot water 
add only enough to keep it from burning. Allow fifteen min- 
utes to a pound after it comes to the boiling point, and turn 
the meat every ten minutes. If to be eaten hot, skim the fat 
from the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter. 

Baked Hominy. 

Boil one pint of fine hominy in hot water for forty min- 
utes ; stir in a good tablespoon of butter ; when cool stir in one 
pint of milk, three eggs, salt to taste. Bake one-half hour. 
This makes a nice vegetable in winter. 

Cream Tomatoes. 
Choose nice, firm, round tomatoes, not fully ripe; leave 



12 

the skin on and cut in one-quarter inch sUces, rejecting the 
blossom end (have a very sharp knife). Season the sHces with 
pepper and salt and roll in flour. Put a little butter in the 
spider and fry a nice, rich, even brown. They must be cooked 
slowly and carefully or they will burn. It will take at least 
one-half hour to do them properly. When done take out and 
lay in your dish while you prepare the sauce. Take as much 
cream as will be necessary to cover the tomatoes well, pour it 
in the pan the tomatoes were cooked in, season with a httle 
pepper and salt and thicken with a little flour. A truly delic- 
ious dish if properly prepared. 

Oysters en Coquille. 

One pint of oysters ; 

One gill of water ; 

Two tablespoon fuls of butter ; 

Two and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour ; 

Two eggs. 
Put in a stewpan the oysters with their liquor and one 
gill of water ; let it come to a boil, take off" the pan and strain 
through a colander. In a saucepan put the butter and flour 
and stir over the fire until the butter melts, then put in half 
the liquor and stir quickly until it thickens. Take off" the fire 
and break in it the eggs one after the other, stirring quickly, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. 
When well mixed add the oysters, put on the fire and boil one 
minute. When cold put in oyster shells, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and brown in oven. This makes an excellent recipe 
for scalloped oysters in a dish. 



18 

Snow Balls. 

One-quarter pound of raw rice ; 

One quart of fresh milk ; 

Five tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 

One cup of raisins, stoned ; 

A little nutmeg. 
Wash the rice well and boil in the milk in a farina kettle, 
adding the sugar, a pinch of salt and a pinch of cinnamon, and 
the raisins (which may be omitted). Simmer gently until the 
rice is soft and all the milk absorbed. Fill small cups with the 
rice, pressing it down well, and let them get cold. When ready 
to serve, turn them out on a glass dish or pile in a mound, 
pour a plain, cold custard round them or serve with cream. 

Custard— Beat the yelks of five eggs until stiff and hght, 
add six tablespoonfuls of sugar and a little cold milk. Have 
what remains of the one quart of milk at boiling point and stir 
in the eggs. Stir until it thickens, and when cold add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Let it get very cold ; custard is thicker 
and nicer made the day before it is wanted. 



Y^^i^a • J©)ir)r)ei?. 



Noodle Soup. 

Salmon in Mould. 

French Lamb Chops, with Fried Tomatoes. Veal Birds. 

Boston Baked Potatoes. Succotash. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Fresh Peach Meringue Pudding. 

Coffee. 



16 

Noodle Sour. 

Shin of beef; 

Three quarts of cold water ; 

One onion ; 

Two eggs, yelks only. 
Put the meat, onion and salt on to boil slowly for live 
hours. Strain, add pepper to taste. 

Noodles — Take the yelks of two eggs and one tablespoon- 
ful of water and a little salt, beat together and add enough 
flour to make a stiff dough ; work it well for fifteen minutes, 
adding flour if necessary. When ready take a portion and 
roll out as thin as a wafer, sprinkle a little flour over it and roll 
up tightly. With a sharp knife cut in slices one-eighth of an 
inch thick. Let them dry an hour or so and drop in the soup 
fifteen minutes before serving, which will be time enough to 
boil them if the soup is at the boiling point. The noodles can 
be omitted and this soup served with poached eggs dropped in ; 
or a better plan is to have the eggs on a separate plate, and put 
one in each soup plate when you serve the soup. 

Salmon in Mould. 

One can of salmon or an equal amount of cold salmon ; 
chop the fish fine, rub it in a bowl with a silver spoon, adding 
four tablespoonfuls of butter until it is a smooth paste ; beat 
one cup of fine bread crumbs with three well beaten eggs and 
season with pepper and salt ; work all together ; add part of a 
cup of milk, or, better still, cream. Put in a buttered mould 
and boil or steam one hour. Turn out and serve with sauce. 



17 

Sauce— One cup of milk boiled and thickened with one 
tablespoon of com starch, two tablespoons of butter, one tea- 
spoon of catsup, pinch of mace, little red pepper, lastly, one 
egg added carefully. Boil one minute and pour over the form 
of fish ; serve hot. 

Veal Birds. 

Cut raw veal in thin slices, four inches in length, three 
inches in width. Make a stuffing, one pint of bread crumbs, 
one-half an onion chopped fine, as much chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper ; mix with as much melted butter as will make it 
soft. Take a slice of veal, stuff it, tie it well round with a 
string. They should be as large as fat reed birds. Dip them 
in egg and fine bread crumbs and fry. When ready to be 
dished take off the strings and pour a nice gravy over them. 
For the gravy take all the scraps left from trimming and put 
on to boil ; add this stock to the pan the birds are fried in and 
make a rich gravy free from grease, and have plenty of it so 
as to well cover the birds. Get the butcher to slice the veal 
and have it -cut thin. 

French Lamb Chops, with Tomato Sauce. 

Three and one-half or four pounds of French chops ; 

Two bunches of young carrots, boiled ; 

One quart of fresh tomatoes sliced as for frying; 

Three or four young onions. 
Take tomatoes dipped in bread crumbs, well seasoned, and 
fry them in a Httle butter to a nice brown. Put them when 
done on a hot dish and keep hot while you add to the pan they 



18 

were cooked in some hot water — stock, if you have it, is better ; 
add the onions and boiled carrots cut thin and let them stew 
for a few minutes. Be careful not to get too much water or 
broth ; season lightly with pepper and salt. Broil the chops, 
place them on the tomatoes and pour the gravy over all. The 
gravy must not be too thin. 

Succotash. 

Cut fresh corn from the cob, having a third more corn 
than lima beans. Boil them together in salted water for two 
hours, having no more w^ater than will just cover them ; turn 
off all the water and pour in one cup of cream or milk (if the 
latter add a teaspoon of flour), a big piece of butter. Let them 
boil in an inner saucepan for one hour ; if more salt is needed 
add when ready to serve. After the corn is cut from the cob 
scrape the cob with the back of a knife. 

Boston Baked Potatoes. 

Pare and slice the potatoes very thin and throw into cold 
water for one-half hour. Drain and dry them and have a 
greased baking dish in which put a layer of potatoes; sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and dots of butter; continue to fill the dish, 
seasoning each layer. Pour over the whole as much milk as 
the dish will hold, cover tightly and bake in a slow oven at 
least one hour, replenishing the milk as it boils away ; fifteen 
minutes before serving remove the cover to brown. Serve in 
the dish they are baked in. Do not let the potatoes get too 
dry ; they should be creamy like a rice pudding, and if prop- 
erly cooked are exceedingly nice. 



19 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Prepare and boil the sweetbreads. When cold cut in 
good sized pieces, cover with mayonnaise dressing and serve 
on lettuce. 

Fresh Peach Meringue Pudding. 

One quart of milk ; 

Two tablespoonfuls of corn starch ; 

One tablespoonful of butter ; 

Three eggs ; 

One-half cup of granulated sugar. 
Cut up some ripe peaches and put three layers in a pud- 
ding dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar, using at least two 
tablespoonfuls ; make a custard of the milk, corn starch, but- 
ter, yelks and sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla ; boil until 
it thickens, then pour carefully over the peaches and bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven. When done spread the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth with two tablespoons of sugar on 
the top and brown delicately. Serve cold with plenty of rich 
cream. 



i©0U3»f]9 • ■fei'i^r)*-'?- 



Black Bean Soup. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Rice Croiistade. Fresh Beef Tongue. 

Hashed Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Bread Pudding. 

Coffee. 



22 

Plain Black Bean Soup. 

One-half pound of salt pork ; 

One quart of black beans ; 

Four quarts of water. 
Soak the beans over night in water. In the morning put 
on to boil with the pork and four quarts of water. Boil five 
or six hours or until the beans are thoroughly done. Press 
through a colander, and if too thick add boiling cream or 
milk. Serve with slices of lemon. This is a simple recipe 
and exceedingly good. 

EiCH Black Bean Soup. 

One-half pound of salt pork ; 

One-half pound of beef; 

Two onions ; 

Two small carrots ; 

One pint of beans ; 

Four quarts of water ; 

Hard boiled eggs ; 

One-half pint of wine. 
Soak the beans over night in water. The next morning 
put on fire to cook with the meat, onions sliced, carrots grated, 
pepper, and more salt if the pork does not season sufficiently. 
When the beans are thoroughly done, which will be in five or 
six hours, press through a co'lander. Have some eggs boiled 
hard, cut fine, and put in the tureen with one-half pint of 
wine ; pour the soup over egg and wine and serve. 



23 

Boiled Fresh Salmon. 

Wrap the fish in a floured cloth and put in the fish kettle 
with enough cold water to cover it ; throw in two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt and boil very slowly, allowing about ten minutes to 
a pound. When done place on a hot dish, being sure to mop 
up all water which may run out on the plate before pouring 
over the sauce, which is made with one pint of milk or cream 
boiled and thickened with one large tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour, a little salt and chopped parsley. Pour over 
the fish; have ready two hard boiled eggs chopped fine, and 
sprinkle over the fish after the sauce has been poured on. 
Garnish with pieces of sliced lemon or sprigs of parsley. 

Rice Croustade, 

Boil two large cups of rice (after well washing) first in a 
little water until swollen, then add one pint of milk and a 
little salt and boil slowly until thoroughly cooked and it has 
absorbed all the milk, then put in one-quarter pound of butter, 
little pepper and more salt if necessary, and several spoonfuls 
of thick stock ; if the stock has been seasoned all the better, or 
if no stock on hand add a little cream sauce. Press this rice 
into a plain tin mould and set aside to become firm and cold ; 
then turn it out upon a piece of sheet iron. Beat up the yelks 
of two eggs and paint it all over with a wide camel's hair 
brush on every part except the bottom. Carefully cut off" the 
top and scoop out the inside and fill with a chicken hash 
highly seasoned with a curry powder or sweetbread with 
cream or tomato sauce, or any preparation of meat you may 



24 

fancy — chicken or turkey is best, however, made moist with a 
cream sauce. Put in the oven with the cover on and brown 
nicely. Shp off of the piece of sheet iron to a dish and 
serve. The object in having the piece of sheet iron (which is 
useful for other things) is to enable you to slip it off easily and 
prevent breaking. 

To Stew a Fresh Beef's Tongue. 
(A popular Maryland Dish.) 

Remove the bones from the root of the tongue, but leave 
all the fat and wash well. Put it to boil in a pot with a little 
salt and more than enough water to cover it, as the water is to 
be saved for stewing. Let it boil two and one-half hours ; take 
off the skin, put it away in a deep dish with its own liquor 
to keep it moist until the next day. About five hours before 
dinner have ready mixed one tablespoon of ground allspice, 
small teaspoonful of carraway seed, one teaspoonful of ground 
pepper, two tablespoons of ground ginger, a few blades of 
mace, twelve cloves, some salt; rub and cover the tongue with 
the mixture ; then dredge the entire tongue with one cupful of 
lightly browned flour. Put this prepared tongue into a pot 
large enough to turn it nicely and pour over the water it was 
boiled in the day before. If not enough add a little boihng 
water. Then add two tablespoons of brown sugar and one 
teacup of stoned raisins. Cover the pot closely, but frequently 
turn the tongue and let it stew slowly until half an hour before 
dinner, then add the juice of a lemon and a teacup of Madeira 
wine. Keep very hot until served. 



25 
Hashed Potatoes. 

Pare and cut the potatoes into small pieces and let them 
soak some time in cold water; boil in salted water twentj- 
minutes, drain off all the water, cover with cold milk, add a 
good piece of butter, and after they begin to boil again con- 
tinue the cooking ten minutes longer, add some thickening, 
boil up again and serve. Some like a tablespoon of chopped 
parsley added. The potatoes should be well done and the 
sauce rich and like a thick custard. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Scald them, take off the skins and cook slowly two hours ; 
thicken with bread crumbs, season with salt, pepper, a very 
little onion and a lump of butter; strain, stir in a beaten egg, 
return to the saucepan to get very hot again and serve. These 
are delicious. Or they may be cooked as above a long time 
and seasoned with a very little onion, salt and pepper, a lump 
of butter, and thickened with a little flour rubbed smooth in 
one-half cup of cream, in which a pinch of soda has been dis- 
solved to prevent curdling. 

Dressed Lettuce. 

Crisp lettuce, well washed and dried, arranged in the form 
of a head on a salad dish ; the dressing served on another dish, 
made the same as for celery. If the French dressing is used 
pour over the leaves. 



26 
Bread Pudding. 

One pint of bread crumbs ; 

One quart of milk ; 

One cup of sugar ; 

Thirty raisins or more ; 

Three eggs. 
Pour the milk boiled on the grated bread crumbs ; add to 
these the sugar and raisins. Beat up the yelks and whites 
separately ; when the milk is cold add yelks, then whites, and 
bake. Before serving, turn out of the dish and pour round it 
raspberry jam, which has been thinned with boiling water. 

Bread Pudding (No. 2). • 

One-half pound of raisins, stoned ; 
One-half pound of currants, well washed ; 
One-quarter pound of citron, cut fine ; 
One pound of sugar ; 
One-half pound of suet, cut fine ; 
One nutmeg, grated ; 
One small loaf of bread, grated fine ; 
Four eggs ; 
One pint of milk ; 
One teacup of flour ; 
One teaspoonful of salt. 
Boil four hours and serve with brandy sauce. 



Kip^ . ]©)] 



X)I)ZV. 



Oxtail Souf). 

Baked Lobster. 

Fried Chicken, with CauUflower Sauce. 

Stuffed Potatoes. Spinach a la Creme. 

Cheese Puffs. Plain Celery. 

Blanc Mange. 

Coffee. 



28 
Oxtail Soup. 

Two oxtails ; 

One-quarter pound of lean bam ; 

Two heads of celery ; 

Two carrots ; 

Two turnips ; 

Two onions ; 

Bunch of savory herbs ; 

Five cloves ; 

One teaspoonful of pepper corns ; 

Three quarts of water. 
• Cut up the tail into small pieces, put in a saucepan, with 
the vegetable and ham cut fine, also the spices, with one and 
one-half ounces of butter and one-half pint of water. Stir over 
the fire a short time, then add three quarts of water (hot) ; 
skim well and boil slowly four hours ; strain out the vegetables 
but serve the pieces of oxtail in the soup ; thicken with a little 
flour. Some add a glass of port wine, but it is quite as good 
without. 

Baked Lobster. 

One ounce of butter ; 

One ounce of rice flour ; 

One pint of cream. 
Boil the lobster, and when cold chop fine. Make a sauce 
according to the above proportions, season with salt and red 
pepper. Fill the lobster shells, sprinkle with bread crumbs on 
top with dots of butter, and brown and serve. The mixture 
should not be too dry ; the sauce must be proportioned to the 



29 

quantity of lobster. The shells, of course, must be washed 
clean before putting in the mixture. It may also be baked in 
a dish. 

Fried Chicken, with Cauliflower. 

Choose young chickens, cut them up neatly and wipe 
them off with a towel ; dip them in egg and bread crumbs and 
fry in butter and lard mixed, a nice brown. Keep the chicken 
hot while you fry some parsley in the pan the chickens were 
fried in. When crisp spread over the chicken. Boil cauli- 
flower in water. Have a sauce made of one pint of milk 
or cream, thickened with one tablespoonful of flour, rubbed 
with one tablespoonful of butter, red pepper and salt to taste. 
Put the cauliflower in this and pour over the chicken, the 
cauliflower cut in pieces. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake six large, round, smooth potatoes. Cut them in half; 
scrape out with a spoon the inside, taking care not to break 
the skin. Mash the potatoes very fine, add salt, pepper, one 
egg, one-half tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful parsley 
(if liked) chopped fine, and make soft with cream, beating the 
whole to a light, creamy mass. Re-fill the skins, sprinkle fine 
bread crumbs over the top of each with a liberal lump of but- 
ter. Stand them in a baking pan, brown in the oven ; serve 
hot on a platter, putting a napkin under them. 

Spinach. . 
Pick the spinach very carefully and wash it very thoroughly 



30 

in plenty of cold water several times. Have ready some boil- 
ing water with a little salt in it, put in the spinach and boil 
slowly for ten minutes after it has fairly started. Drain in a 
colander, pressing every particle of water out. Chop fine, put 
in a saucepan with a little piece of butter, moisten with cream, 
add pepper and salt. Cook in this way slowly ten minutes 
before serving. When dished put slices of hard boiled egg on 
top. 

Cheese Puffs. 

One-quarter pound of bread crumbs; 

Two gills of milk ; 

One-quarter pound of butter ; 

Two-thirds teaspoon of mustard ; 

One-half teaspoon of salt ; 

Pinch of cayenne ; 

One-half pound of grated cheese ; 

Four eggs, beaten separately. 
Boil the bread soft in the milk, add all the ingredients ex- 
cepting the whites; beat thoroughly, then add the whites. 
Pour into paper cases, filling each one three-quarters full. 
Bake five or six minutes, when it should be puffed high above 
the edge of the paper. Serve immediately or they will fall. 

Blanc Mange. 

• One quart of cream ; 

One-quarter pound of sifted sugar ; 
One-half box of Cox's gelatine ; 
One tumbler of water ; 
Two teaspoonfuls of bitter almonds. 



31 

Take rather less than half the box of gelatine dissolved in 
the water, add it with the sugar and flavoring to the cream. 
Be particular to stir well or it will separate. Put in moulds to 
harden. If milk used boil it. 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange. 

One quart of milk ; 

Four tablespoonfuls of corn starch ; 

Two eggs, yelks only ; 

One teacup of sugar; 

Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
Wet the corn starch with a little of the milk and add it to 
the boiling milk and sugar. Boil a few minutes, then add the 
beaten yelks and stir a minute longer ; take from the fire, add 
vanilla, pour in a mould wet with cold water. Serve with pre- 
serves and cream, or cream alone. 



:%.Di 



i)r)C 



Macaroni Soup. 

Baked Halibut. 

Roast Turkey, Stuffed with Chestnuts. 

Mashed Potatoes. Cranberry Jelly. 

Fried Oysters. Dressed Celery. 

Russian Cream. 

Coffee. 



34 

Macaroni Soup. 

Knuckle of veal ; 

Two large carrots ; 

One head of celery ; 

Three onions ; 

Three blades of mace : 

Sweet marjoram ; 

One-quarter pound of macaroni ; 

One-half pint of cream. 
Boil down a knuckle of veal with two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, pepper and sweet marjoram tied in a piece of muslin, 
three blades of mace, two large carrots, one head of celery and 
three onions ; strain it. Break one-quarter pound of macaroni 
into small pieces, simmer it in milk and water for twenty min- 
utes ; strain it and add macaroni to the soup. Thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed in one-half pint of cream 
and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; stir into the soup 
gradually. Boil a few minutes before serving. 

Baked Halibut. 

Take a piece of halibut weighing about six pounds ; score 
the outer skin and season with salt and black pepper and 
a few pieces of butter dotted over the fish. Put a little water 
in the bottom of a pan containing the fish and bake one hour, 
basting every ten minutes with butter and water (the butter 
dissolved in the water). It should be a fine, even brown. Add 
to the gravy in the pan a little browned flour wet with cold 
water; boil up and add the juice of one lemon, pour over the 



35 

fish, garnish with slices of lemon and serve. Have the gravy 
the consistency of rich cream. 

Roast Turkey, with Chestnut Stuffing. 

Having drawn the turkey and singed it, see that it is per- 
fectly clean and sweet (but upon no account let it, or any other 
kind of meat, either fish, fowl or animal, soak in water). Pre- 
pare a stuffing of bread crumbs as follows : A small baker's 
loaf crumbled with the hands, season with one-half teaspoon- 
ful of sweet basil, one teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped onion and one-quarter pound of butter 
chopped in tiny pieces through the crumbs, pepper and salt. 
Take a pint of chestnuts, put them in a spider to burst their 
skins, then boil in very salted water until done. Chop not too 
fine, and add to the stuffing. Fill the body and craw of the 
turkey and sew tightly, so as to keep the stuffing perfectly 
dry. It is best not to skewer the legs to the body while roast- 
ing, as it is difficult to get the thighs properly cooked. Rub 
the fowl all over with butter and sprinkle with salt. If it goes 
in the oven, put it on a meat rack with a little water in the 
pan. Baste as first with slightly salted water, afterwards with 
its own gravy — ^this do every ten minutes. 

Sauce — Put the neck, liver and gizzard to stew slowly for 
three hours. Take them out and see that the broth has re- 
duced to one pint. Shell and skin one pint of chestnuts (scald 
them to remove the skins) ; simmer them in the giblet broth 
with a little red pepper and salt until quite soft; rub them 
through a fine sieve, return to the stock, add one cup of cream, 
boil up and serve. 



36 

Mashed Potatoes. 

The potato is the most popular of all vegetables, and yet 
one that is more abused than any other. There is little excuse 
for not boiling a potato properly, as it takes about the same 
time for all kinds of old potatoes, save one, namely, those 
which fall to pieces as soon as they begin to boil, and as no 
one would be guilty of knowingly buying them a second time, 
it is safe to lay down the rule of thirty minutes for boiling all 
medium sized potatoes. The water should be boiling and well 
salted ; throw the potatoes in (which should have been thinkj 
peeled and lying in cold water for at least one hour), leave the 
lid off and do not boil too fast. At the end of thirty minutes 
(by the clock) from the time they went in they will be done. 
Drain every drop of water from them and stand uncovered on 
the side of the stove for a moment or two until you see the pot 
is dry. Turn them into a hot, earthen bowl to mash, which 
can be done quickly with the excellent wire potato masher, 
with which also they can be beaten very light, which process 
is the secret in white, creamy potatoes, which, alas, seems a 
talent possessed by a few. Have a cup of cream or milk boiling 
hot, and after the potatoes are mashed a small piece of butter 
beaten in, more salt if necessary ; add the milk or cream by 
degrees, beating all the time. Have the potatoes moist, but, 
by no means, watery. Pile lightly in a vegetable dish (never 
smooth them) and serve at once. The quantity of milk de- 
pends upon the quantity of potato, but should always be added 
by degrees and thoroughly beaten in. Should it be necessary 
to delay serving them, set them in a pan of hot water with a 
light cloth thrown over, and dish when ready. 



37 
Cranberry Jelly. 

To one quart of cranberries add one cup of water ; after 
they have cooked about ten minutes add two heaping cups or 
one pound of granulated sugar and cook slowly fifteen minutes 
longer, stirring constantly ; strain and pour into a mould. Two 
quarts of cranberries will fill a one-quart mould. If they are 
not wanted to jelly less sugar may be used. 

Fried Oysters. 

One hundred oysters ; 

Yelks of four eggs. 
Choose fine, large, solid oysters ; salt water ones under all 
circumstances are the best. Lay them on a cloth and make 
them perfectly dry. Beat the yelks to a froth; dip them in 
very fine bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, next in 
the egg, then again in the bread crumbs. Put in a frying pan 
equal quantities of lard and butter of sufficient quantity to 
cover the oysters entirely. As soon as it is boiling hot drop 
the oysters in one by one and cook to a light brown. Have a 
soft piece of paper laid on a dish in the mouth of the oven ; lay 
the oysters on this as j^ou take from the fat in order to absorb 
all grease. Serve on a hot platter as soon as possible. Some 
prefer oysters cooked in a small quantity of grease, just enough 
to brown them ; this gives the crumbs more crispness. 

Dressed Celery. 

Cut the celery into half inch pieces, after being cleaned, 
and throw in cold water until wanted. Before it is mixed with 



the dressing dry the celery thoroughly, by first turning off the 
water through a colander, then wipe in a towel ; it should be 
perfectly dry or it will thin the dressing. 



Celery or Lettuce Dressing. 

Take the uncooked yelk of one egg, add oil, a few drops at 
a time, until it mixes and begins to get stiff, alternate then with 
one tablespoonful of vinegar to one-half pint of oil ; salt and 
red pepper to taste, and one-half teaspoon of mustard if it is 
considered indispensable. It should be so stiff as to be able to 
take up the mass on a fork. If through carelessness or want 
of experience it separates, take the yelk of another egg and 
add what you have made to it, a teaspoonful at a time. Have 
the lettuce leaves thoroughly dried, placed whole in a salad 
bowl, and the dressing served separately. One yelk will be 
enough for one pint of oil. 

French Salad Dressing. 

One tablespoonful of vinegar ; 

Three tablespoonful s of olive oil ; 

One saltspoon of pepper ; 

One saltspoon of salt ; 

One scant teaspoonful of scraped onion ; 

A little chopped parsley. 
Mix the salt and pepper with the oil, then add the onion, 
and last the vinegar with the parsley. Let it stand some time 
in ice chest before using. 



39 
Russian Cream. 

One quart of milk ; 

Five eggs ; 

One-half box of gelatine ; 

One small cup of sugar ; 

One teaspoonful of vanilla ; 

One wine glass of wine and brandy mixed. 
Soak the gelatine in the milk. Stir well over the fire until 
entirely dissolved; add the yelks beaten very light with the 
sugar; stir constantly until it thickens and has reached the 
boiling point. In a large bowl have the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth, pour the custard on them, beat well together, add 
flavoring, and pour into a large mould to harden. In winter 
this requires but a small half box of gelatine. This dish is 
more satisfactory made the day before wanted. Serve with or 
without cream. 



>ever)f^ • jQ/irjijer'. 



Clear Beef Soup. 

Scalloped Green Turtle. 

Mutton Stuffed with Oysters. 

Potato Croquettes. Turnips, with Cream Sauce. 

Cole-slaw. Sweetbread Pates. 

Rice Souffle. 

Coffee. 



42 

Clear Beef Soup. 

Ten-pound rump of beef; 
One egg. 
Put the beef into a pot and cover with cold water ; simmer 
until the meat is in shreds ; strain and put away. The next 
day take off all fat, put it on the fire with the shell and white 
of an egg; when it comes to a boil skim and strain again. Put 
in another pot 

Four large carrots, sliced ; 

Two turnips, sliced; 

Four large onions, sliced ; 

One head of celery, cut in pieces ; 

Bunch of soup herbs. 
Cover with just enough water to cook them well, pour the 
water off through a fine cloth and add to your soup ; add a very 
little soy or something else to give a good color. The soup 
should be strong, clear and delicious. 

Scalloped Green Turtle. 

Three pounds of turtle steaks ; 

One-half pint of cream. 
Be sure to have the steaks cut with the fat, which is the 
best part. Steam them until tender, cut into pieces one inch 
square, season with salt and red pepper. Make a dressing of 
the cream, boiled and thickened with one small tablespoonful 
of flour, made perfectly smooth, and stir in a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut. You need but little butter and a small 
amount of sauce as the turtle is very rich. When the sauce is 



43 

cool beat it well. Put in your dish alternate layers of fish and 
sauce until the dish is full, putting a thicker layer on top. 
Brown in oven. 

Leg of Mutton, Stuffed with Oysters. 

Take a fine leg of mutton which has been hanging; let 
the butcher take out the bone. Stuff^ full of oysters. Roast 
before a fire or bake in an oven, basting every ten minutes 
with salt and water at first, afterwards with its own gravy. 
Allow twelve minutes to a pound. Thicken the gravy slightly 
and put chopped pickles in it. Serve in a gravy boat with the 
meat. 

Turnips, with Cream Sauce. 

Choose young, white turnips of even size ; peel and boil in 
plenty of salt water. When very tender, cut neatly and evenly 
into four pieces and pour over them a cream sauce made of 
one pint of cream or milk, one heaping tablespoon of rice flour, 
rubbed smooth with a heaping tablespoonful of butter; season 
with pepper and salt. 

Potato Croquettes. 

To three cups of freshly mashed potatoes add two table- 
spoons of cream or milk, two eggs, well beaten, one tablespoon 
of butter, a very little onion chopped very fine, salt and cay- 
enne pepper to taste. Beat all together until very light, put 
in a saucepan and keep stirring until they leave the bottom 
and sides of the saucepan. Set aside to get perfectly cold; 



44 

form into little, round balls, dip in egg and fine bread crumbs, 
place in a wire basket and cook in boiling lard. 

Sweetbread Pates. 

Make a sauce, one pint of cream boiled, while boiling stir in 
one heaping tablespoonful of rice flour, mixed perfectly smooth, 
some chopped parsley and one-quarter of an onion; when 
boiled take out the onion, stir in a tablespoonful of butter and 
some salt and red pepper. Have sweetbreads boiled, cut up 
and added to the sauce. Some white meat of chicken cut 
up and added (half and half) with the sweetbreadis an im- 
provement. Pour into pat^s. It is also very good served with- 
out the paste. 

Cole-Slaw, No. 1. 

One small head of cabbage ; 

Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; 

Piece of butter size of an egg ; 

One teaspoonful of mixed mustard ; 

Pinch of red pepper ; 

Teaspoonful of salt ; 

One tablespoonful of sugar ; 

One cup of sour cream, or sweet. 
Scald the vinegar, add the other ingredients and pour hot 
over the shaved cabbage. Let it get very cold before it is 
served. A teaspoonful of flour mixed in the cream is an im- 
provement, as it gives a little more consistency. 



45 
Cole-Slaw (No. 2). 

One-half teacup of vinegar; 

One-half teacup of cream ; 

One teaspoon of mustard ; 

Two eggs ; 

Piece of butter size of a walnut. 
Stir the whole over the fire until the consistency of cus- 
tard and pour hot over the chopped cabbage. Always make 
cole-slaw early in the day so as to have it very cold. 

Rice Souffle. 

Two ounces of rice ; 

Butter size of a walnut ; 

Some lemon peel ; 

Six eggs; 

Milk and powdered sugar. 
Wash and pick two ounces of rice. Swell it in milk by 
standing on the back of the stove; add a pinch of salt and 
butter the size of a walnut and a little grated lemon peel, 
enough to flavor. Moisten the rice little by little that it may 
remain firm ; add to it two spoonfuls of powdered sugar, the 
yelks of six eggs, one by one. Make them mix in without 
working too much. Whip the whites and mix little by little 
with the other ingredients. Put the souffle in a dish in which 
it is to be served ; put in the oven. When it begins to brown, 
glaze with powdered sugar and let it remain until baked. 



Oiql)!^ . mij^x)(Z.v. 



Okra Soup. 

Broiled Lobster. Sauce Tartare. 

Rolled Beef, garnished with Baked Tomatoes. 

Rice Balls. Fried Squash. 

Sweetbread, with Terrapin Dressing. 

Plain Celery. 

Smyrna Pudding. 

Coffee. 



48 
Okra and Tomato. 

Leg of beel ; 

One-quarter peck of tomatoes ; 

One-quarter peck of okras. 
Put a leg of beef with five quarts of water (cold) on the fire 
at eight o'clock ; let it boil slowly two hours, taking off all 
scum as it rises. At ten o'clock put in the tomatoes, the skin 
first taken off with boiling water, the okras cut in slices, leav- 
ing out the stalks, and one onion cut in pieces ; season with 
salt and pepper and continue to simmer five hours longer. 
Like most soups, this is better the second day. If the vege- 
tables are not liked they can be strained from the soup. 

Broiled Lobster. 

Take four chicken lobsters, uncooked and perfectly fresh ; 
separate them in two by cutting down lengthwise ; put a little 
melted butter upon them, salt, pepper and some bread crumbs. 
Broil them before a gentle fire in the shells. They may be 
served with or without sauce tartare. This is the true way to 
prepare broiled lobster, but they may be plunged in boiling 
water, which kills them instantly. They are very delicious. 



Sauce Tartare (Cold Sauce). 

Put in a bowl the yelks of two eggs with salt and pepper 
and one dessert spoonful of vinegar in which has been mixed 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls of mustard ; whip up this mix- 



49 

ture as quickly as possible ; when it forms a cream add, a few 
drops at a time, one-half pint of oil. Chop a pickle and one 
tablespoonful of capers as fine as possible and add to the sauce 
the last thing. If the onion flavor is liked rub the bowl well 
with a raw onion before putting the other ingredients in. This 
sauce may be made in a large quantity as it keeps a long time, 
and is very good served with fried fish, oysters fried, boiled 
tongue, etc. Of course it must be in a dish by itself; a glass 
pickle dish is appropriate. 

Beef Eoll. 

Two and one-half pounds of steak cut from rump or round ; 

One pint of grated bread crumbs ; 

Three hard boiled eggs ; 

Slice of salt pork ; 

One onion; 

One-half teaspoonful of thyme ; 

One teaspoonful of sweet marjoram ; 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Take a thick steak and lay thin strips of salt pork over it ; 
make a stuffing with the above ingredients, spread over the 
pork, dot with little pieces of butter. Roll the steak and bind 
with a string. Put the roll in a stewpan with just enough 
boiling water to cover it and cook gently one hour. Take it 
out carefully, spread a little butter over it and dust with fine 
bread crumbs. Press the crumbs with the hand to make them 
stick all round, put it in a bakepan with the broth it was 
cooked in and brown nicely, basting several times. When 
done. strain the gravy and thicken with a little flour, more 



50- 

pepper and salt if needed, one-half can of mushrooms cut in 
half, a little soy to make it a rich color. Serve in a gravy boat 
and garnish the meat roll with well baked tomatoes. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Cut out the centres of the tomatoes. For six tomatoes 
make a stuffing of one large cup of bread crumbs, a small 
onion, minced as fine as possible, one tablespoonful of butter, 
also cut in tiny pieces, season with pepper and salt. Stuff the 
centres, piling it a little on the top ; put a piece of butter on 
top of each and bake nearly one hour. 

Rice Balls. 

Boil the rice in salted water ten minutes ; drain and pour 
on milk, in which let it steam until the rice is reduced to a 
pulp and all the milk absorbed, adding more milk when neces- 
sary. Stir in a little piece of butter and taste to see if salt 
enough before adding more. Form into round balls (a form 
can be used) of uniform size and not too large. Arrange in a 
flat vegetable dish, each ball separate, and cover with a rich 
cream sauce. These are delicious and make a pretty dish. 

Fried Squash. 

Peel the squash, cut in very thin slices, dip in egg and fine 
bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, and fry in boil- 
ing lard. They must be crisp and free from grease. In order 
to have them so place an open wire waiter (which comes for 
such purposes) in the mouth of the oven; place the cooked 



51 

squash on it for a minute or two before serving on a hot 
platter. 

Sweetbreads, with Terrapin Dressing. 

Parboil fine large sweetbreads. Cover them with butter 
and a dredging of flour and bake in the oven. 

Dressing— Mash the yelks of three hard boiled eggs with a 
good lump of butter, add three wine glasses of cream ; let it 
boil up, add one wine glass of wine, a little salt and pepper. 
Pour over the sweetbreads ; have some of the whites chopped 
fine and sprinkle over all. This is a very pretty and delicious 
dish. Increase the dressing in proportion to the number and 
size of sweetbreads. This is for a small dish. 

Smyrna Pudding. 

Scant pint of bread crumbs ; 

One quart of milk ; 

Eight tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 

Butter size of an egg ; 

Peel of one lemon ; 

Five eggs. 
Pour over the bread crumbs the warmed milk, stir well 
and add lemon peel, sugar, butter and the yelks well beaten. 
Mix all thoroughly together, pour into a dish and bake care- 
fully. Beat the whites stiff", add by degrees six tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, spread on top, and brown. It will take three-quarters 
of an hour all together. To be eaten very cold. 



Jr/irjfj^ • J(g)ir)r)ei'. 



Eaw Oysters. 

Calf's Head Soup. 

Turbot d la Creme. 

Boiled Turkey — Oyster Sauce. Eillet of Beef. 

Scalloped Potatoes. Stewed Celery. 

Cranberry Jelly. Spinach. 

Terrapin. 

Orange Baskets. 

Quail in Claret. Dressed Lettuce. 

Plum Pudding. Ice Cream. 

Wine Jelly. 

Coffee. 



54 

Calf's Head Sour. 

Calf's head ; 

Knuckle of veal ; 

Bone of beef; 

Six carrots ; 

Six onions ; 

Two heads of celery ; 

Twelve cloves ; 

Twelve allspice ; 

One and one-half doz. whole peppers ; 

Bunch of herbs and parsley. 
Boil a calf's head in as much water as will cover it, until 
you can slip out the bones. Take a knuckle of veal and a 
small bone of beef; cut the meat off and put meat and bones 
in the liquor the head was boiled in, adding as much more 
water as will cover the whole. Skim well after it has thor- 
oughly come to a boil ; then add six carrots, sliced, six onions 
and two heads of celery cut small, a bunch of herbs and 
parsley, twelves cloves, twelve allspice, one and one-half dozen 
whole peppers. Boil the whole slowly five or six hours. Strain 
it through a coarse sieve, pressing it well. This will make stock 
enough for two tureens of soup. When warming for use take 
one-half, thicken with one-half pint of flour mixed very smooth, 
two ounces of butter, and color with burnt sugar or soy. If 
this quantity of flour does not thicken enough add a little 
more. Cut one-half the head in small pieces, also one-half the 
brains; let them boil in the soup. Put in the tureen one-half 
pint of wine, some force, meat balls and the yelks of six hard 
boiled eggs cut in pieces ; pour the soup boiling hot over them. 



55 

The soup must be seasoned to taste with salt and cayenne pep- 
per. The calf's head without any meat will make good soup, 
but only for one day. The force meat balls are made of one 
pound of veal, one-half pound beef suet ; chop very fine, add 
spice, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a few bread crumbs, and 
two eggs to bind them. Roll in little balls and fry a delicate 
brown in boiling fat. 

Fish — Turbot a la Creme. 

Take a haddock, bass or halibut, four pounds. Boil it with 
plenty of salt in the water; take out all the bones and remove 
all skin; flake off the flesh. Boil one quart of cream; while 
boiling stir in three large tablespoonfuls of rice flour, perfectly 
smooth, add a bunch of parsley, half an onion, and when 
boiled take both out. Add one-quarter pound of butter and a 
little cayenne. Put first a layer of sauce, then one of fish, until 
the dish is full, covering the top with sauce. Strew a thick 
layer of white bread crumbs over it and bake one-half hour. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Having drawn the turkey and singed it, cut the lege at first 
joint and draw them into the body. Fasten the small ends of 
the wings under the back and tie them with strong twine. See 
that it is perfectly clean and sweet. Prepare a stuffing as fol- 
lows : One baker's loaf, crumbed ; season with one-half tea- 
spoonfiil of sweet basil, one teaspoonful sweet marjoram, one 
onion chopped fine, and one-quarter pound of butter chopped 
in tiny pieces through the crumbs, pepper, salt and one pint of 
oysters chopped. Fill the body and craw and sew up tight. 



56 

Tie the fowl in a floured cloth and put in a large meat boiler 
with boiling water to cover ; replenish with water from the 
kettle if it boils away. Allow fifteen minutes to a pound, boil- 
ing gently. Serve with a border of rice, surrounding the tur- 
key with oyster sauce in a gravy boat. 

Sauce — Bring one pint of cream or milk to a boil, add two 
tablespoonfuls of rice flour mixed with butter size of an egg, 
add salt, pepper and three-quarters of a pint of oysters which 
have been strained. Simmer five minutes and serve. 

Fillet or Beef. 

All the skin and fat should be removed and the piece of 
meat neatly larded. Put it on the meat rack in a baking pan 
and baste frequently with salt and water. It will take about 
one-half hour to bake if the oven is very hot, as it should be. 
It should be served with mushroom sauce, which is made as 
follows : Take a cup of stock, thicken it with flour and butter 
mixed, seasoned with pepper and salt and a few drops of lemon 
juice ; add a can of mushrooms and let all simmer a few min- 
utes. Pour the sauce over the fillet and serve. Three pounds 
of fillet are enough for ten or twelve persons. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Take three cups of freshly mashed potatoes, beat in them 
two tablespoons of butter, salt to taste, and a small cup of boil- 
ing cream ; beat thoroughly and add three eggs beaten separ- 
^ ately. Put lightly in a greased dish and bake in a quick oven 
until a light brown. This proportion will make a large dish 
full. 



57 
Stewed Celery. 

Cut the celery into inch pieces and boil softly in salted 
water about twenty minutes or until tender. Have just enough 
water to cover the celery— no more ; add one cup of cream, a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, pepper and 
salt. These proportions are enough for one large bunch of 
celery. 

Terrapin. 

Choose fine terrapins. The salt water ones are the best. 
Have the water boiling hot and drop one in at a time and wait 
for the water to boil again before putting in another. In this 
way you are sure of terrapins dying immediately. The length 
of time for cooking depends on the size— a small one requiring 
a half hour, a large one an hour. The best test is to take 
hold of the foot, and if it is about ready to separate from the 
body it is done ; or a better way still is to turn the toes back, 
if stiff they are not done. Great care should be taken not to 
boil them too long, as they become- stringy and tasteless. 
When they are cold take off the shells, pull out the claws, 
ope?i the body and take out very carefully the sand bag and 
gall which is in the left lobe of the Kver; if the gall bag breaks 
you spoil the terrapin. Cut off the heads, the rest of the 
terrapin with the intestines are to be used. Cut in good size 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper. 

Dressing— For six small terrapins allow eighteen eggs boiled 
twenty minutes and dropped in cold water. Eub the yelks 
smooth and add one pint of cream by degrees. Boil the cream 



58 

and thicken with one tablespoonful of rice flour rubbed with 
one-half pound of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Sim- 
mer ten minutes, take off the fire and add a tumbler of sherry 
wine. When the dressing is cool beat it well and add the 
terrapin. It is best to prepare the terrapin the day before it is 
to be used so as to allow the dressing to permeate the terra- 
pins. When re-heated add more wine if needed. Save the 
eggs out of the terrapin and add them when warming for use. 

Orange Baskets. 

Cut oranges in the shape of baskets with an orange colored 
ribbon bow on the handle. Fill with orange water ice made as 
follows : 

One pound of sugar ; 

One quart of water ; 

Twelve oranges ; 

Two lemons ; 

Four eggs, whites only. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water ; squeeze the juice 
and rasp two oranges with lumps of sugar (not too deeply or it 
will be bitter) ; mix the juice with the beaten white of the eggs, 
and when the syrup is cold beat all together well and fi'eeze. 

Snipe or Quail. 

Have the birds properly and thoroughly cleaned; stuff 
them and put in a small pan ; pour over them a bottle of claret 
or port wine; let them soak two hours or more; then butter 
them and dredge with flour and roast in a quick oven twenty 
minutes, or until they are done, basting constantly with the 



59 

claret they were soaked in. When the birds are taken from 
the oven add currant jelly to the gravy and pour over the 
birds. One pint bottle is enough for six birds. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

Rub to a cream three-quarters of a cup of butter and two 
cups of powdered sugar, working the sugar in by degrees, also 
one cup of wine; beat all into a soft, creamy mass. 

Plum Pudding. 

One small baker's loaf, grated ; 

One pint of milk ; 

One and one-half pounds of currants ; 

One pound of raisins, stoned and cut in half; 

One-quarter pound of citron, cut in thin pieces ; 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour ; 

One-half pound of brown sugar, rolled fine ; 

Six ounces of suet, chopped fine ; 

One even tablespoonful of cinnamon ; 

One-half tablespoonful of mace ; 

One nutmeg ; 

One lemon, grated peel only ; 

Five eggs. 
Boil the milk, pour over the bread crumbs and suet ; when 
nearly cold add the eggs well beaten ; add by degrees the fruit, 
sugar, spice and one glass of brandy and wine mixed. Beat all 
well together; put in your pudding bag, which has been well 
scalded and dredged with flour. Boil four hours, and be care- 
ful that it does not cease to boil all this time. Have this all 



GO 

made the day before, and when wanted boil another hour to 
thoroughly heat it. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Three pints of cream ; 
Three-quarters pound of sugar ; 
One egg, white only ; 

One-half of small vanilla bean, powdered. 
Keserve one pint of cream, whip it stiff, and add when 
cream is half frozen. 

Wine Jelly. 

One box of Cox's gelatine ; 

Two lemons ; 

One and three-quarters pounds of sugar ; 

One and one-half pint of wine ; 

One wine glass of brand5^ 
Dissolve the gelatine in one pint cold water, then add the 
juice and rind of lemons cut thin ; pour on one quart of boil- 
ing water, add the sugar. When all is dissolved add wine and 
brandy and strain through a jelly bag. 

Coffee. 

Six heaping tablespoonfuls of coffee to one quart of boiling 
water. Scald the coffee boiler; pour in the coffee grounds, 
which have been mixed to a paste, with the whites of one-half 
an egg and a little water ; pour on the water, which must be 
actually boiling. Cover tightly and boil gently ten minutes. 
Scald the coffee pot and send to table at once, served with 
whipped cream and sugar. 



INDEX. 



Soups. 



Page. 

Asparagus 6 

Black Bean (No. 1) 22 

" (No. 2) 22 

Calf's Head 54 

Clear Beef 42 



Page. 

Macaroni 34 

Noodle 16 

Okra 48 

Oxtail 28 

Potage a la Reine 10 



Fish. 



Blue Fish, Baked 10 

Flounder, with Tomato 

Sauce 6 

Green Turtle, Scalloped ... 42 

Halibut, Baked 34 

Lobster, " 28 



Lobster, Broiled 48 

Salmon, Boiled 23 

in Mould 16 

Turbot ^ la Creme 55 

Terrapin 57 



Meats. 



A la Mode Beef. 11 

Sweetbread Pates 44 

Fillet of Beef. 56 

French Lamb Chops 17 

Mutton stuffed with Oys- 
ters 43 



Fresh Beef Tongue , 24 

Roast Saddle of Mutton... 7 

Rolled Beef. 49 

Rice Croiistade 23 

Veal Birds 17 



Poultry and Birds. 



Chicken fried with Cauli- 
flower . 29 

Quail in Claret 58 

Squab, Roasted 8 



Turkey boiled with Oyster 
Sauce 55 

Turkey roasted with 
Chestnut Stuffing 35 



62 

Entrees. 



Page. 

Cheese Puffs 30 

Oysters, Fried 37 

" en Coquille 12 



Page. 

Sweetbread Salad 19 

Sweetbread with Terrapin 



Dressing 51 



Vegetables. 



Baked Hominy 11 

Celery, Dressed 37 

Stewed 57 

Cranberry Jelly 37 

Cauliflower, with Cheese... 7 

Cole-Slaw 44 

Lettuce Salad 25 

Potatoes, Mashed... 36 

" Scalloped 56 

Potatoe Croquettes 43 

Potatoes, Stuffed 29 



Potatoes, Hashed 25 

Potato Balls 7 

Potatoes, Boston Baked... 18 

Kice Balls 50 

Spinach a la Creme 29 

Squash, Fried 50 

Succotash 18 

Tomatoes, Creamed. 11 

Stewed 25 

Baked 50 

Turnips, Cream Sauce 43 



Desserts. 



Bread Pudding (No. 1) .. .. 26 

(No. 2) 26 

Blanc Mange (No. 1) 30 

'' ^ (No. 2) 31 

Orange Baskets 58 

Peach Meringue Pudding. 19 

Plum Pudding 59 

Rice Balls, with Custard... 13 



Russian Cream 39 

Rice Souffle 45 

Strawberry Charlotte 8 

Smvrna Pudding = 51 

Wine Jelly 60 

Coffee 60 

Ice Cream, Vanilla 60 



'A 






/'.'■■ .-■ 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 519 735 1 ^ 



