LIB RARY j)F CONGR ESS. 

©|ap*.-l.i.. ©ojti^nQl^t !f a* 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 






\ ' 



: -A 



THE UNIVERSAL 

HOUSEHOLD CYCLOPvEDIA, 

A VOLUME OF UNIVERSAL REABY REFERENCE 

FOB , 

\ '8 and / 1 

^n(mcim ^omm in ^tmricnn ponies. 



Con. -ng a Large Fund of Useful Information, 

^acts. Hints azid Suggestions, 

Upoii the Various Topics Pertaining to Hortie Life, 

IXCLUDINO 

^'E DECORATION, HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT, DOMESTIC 
FFAIRS, COOKERY, LADIES' FANCY WORK, MEDICAL 
MATTERS, FLORICULTURE, ETIQUETTE, HOME 
AMUSEMENTS, THE NURSERY, AUTISTIC 
EMBROIDERY, DECORATIVE PAINT- 
ING, LACE MAKING, THE TO I- X, 
LET, THE LAUNDRY, ETC. 

iJl 101890 



With One Hundred and Eighty-Nine Illustrations. 



New Yokk : 
Fo M. LUPTON, PUBLISHEK, 

N08. 106 AND 108 PiEADE STREET. 
1890. 



\ 

/I 
I 

\ 
I 



COPTEIGHT BY 

M. LUPTON, 
1890. 



PREFACE. 



The object of this volume is to provide a helpful assistant, guide and 
couusellor to the housewife, which may be consulted at all times and in 
any emergency, and it is believed that the information herein contained 
will save labor, time aud money in every household wherein the book shall 
find a place. An attempt has been made, in the compilation of tbe book, 
to include every subject in which woman is interested, wherein information 
of a practical nature can be imparted through printed instructions. Con- 
sequently not only are the various practical and necessary duties of woman 
helpfully treated, but considerable space is likewise given to the more fan- 
ciful employments of the sex, as for instance fancy work, embroidery, lace 
making, home decoration, painting, floriculture, etc. It may be said that 
the work is an epitome of nearly all that may be learned from books upon 
the twin subjects of housekeeping aud homemaking. Nor has the sociil 
side of woman's existence been neglected, as a perusal of the excellent 
departments of " Etiquette " and " Home Amusements " will abundantly 
testify. 

Particular attention is called to the valuable department of " Tue Nur- 
sery," contributed by Mrs. EfiBe W. Merriman, a lady of experience and au 
accomplished writer ; to the department of " Artistic Embroidery," written 
by the popular author and eminent authority upon the subject, Mrs. Ella 
Rodman Churcli ; to the valuable department of " Cooking Recipes," com- 
piled by a practical housekeeper and believed to be the best collection of 
recipes ever contained in a volume of this character ; to " The Home Physi- 
cian," wherein will be found simple yet reliable and efficacious home reme- 
dies for all common ailments, and to the excellent department of " Decora- 
tive Painting," contributed by the talented sisters Lida aud M. J. Clarkson. 
The mission of the book is to lighten the cares and the burdens and to 
multiply the pleasures and enjoyments of home. How to reduce labor by 



iv PREFACE. 

the application of methods discovered by practical and progressive women ; 
how to save time and money by the same or similar methods ; how to sub- 
due disease by the use of simple Lome remedies rather than the employ- 
ment of a physician in ordinary cmergeuci< a ; how to make the home 
beautiful— these are subjects of immediate personal concern to every pro- 
gressive housewife. That this book may save many a weary hour of labor, 
and by helpful suggestion dispense many a blessing in every home wherein 
it may find a place, is the earnest hope of its compiler and authors. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

HOMB Dkoobation . • . • • 11 

Etiquette ,.....••• 51 

Artistic Embroidehy . . . . . . . .79 

The Nursery ........ 138 

Lace Making and Crochet ....... 181 

Decorative Painting ....... 217 

Home Amusements ........ 235 

Cooking Recipes ........ 277 

Ladies' Fancy Work . . . . . . . .349 

FliOBIOULTUBE . . . . . . .381 

The Home Physician ........ 412 



CONTENTS. 



The Toilet 



PAOE 

461 



The Laundby 



471 



Hints and £U:lps 



483 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Embroidered Chair 
Photograph Case— Closed . 

" " Open 

Ornamental Calendar 
Portiere for a Drawing Room Doui 
Decorative Folding Mirror 
Paper Pocket 
Fancy Table Cover . 
Fancy Work B ig 

Curtain for Corner Hanging Closet 
Pillow Sh;im 
Drapery for Screen . 
Window Lambrequin . 
Painted ^md Embroidered Curtain 
Palette Penwiper . , 

Fancy Sachet 
HairReceiver 
Painted Tambourine 
Calendar Panel . 
Card Receiver 
Decorative Blotter 
Fan Wall Pocket 
Chair Scarf 
Whisk-Broom Holder 
Sachet .... 



Fig 



jrinometer 




. 1 . 




2. 




3 




i. 




5 




6 . 




7 




8 . 




9 




10. 




11 




12 . 




13 




14. 




15 




16. 




17 




18 . 




19 




20. 




21 




22. 




23 




24. 




25 





LIST OF ILLUSTRATrONS. 



Fig. 



26 
27 
28- 
29 



-Medallion in Point llusse 



" 30— Border in Point Eusse 

«' 31 Border for Furniture Covers, Portieres, etc.— Chain Stitch 

broideiy ....#.. 

"32 

" 33 . 

"34 

" 85 . 

"36 

" 37 . 

"38 

" 39 . 

"40 

"41 

" 42— Border fur Cover ot Bible, Prayer-Book, etc. 

«' 43— Cover for Praver-Book 

" 44_Coruer of Border in Satin-Stitch Embroidery for Album Covers, 
Portfolios, etc. 

"45 

" 46 . 

"47 

" 48 . 

"49 

" 50 , 

" 51 — Border in Applique 

" 52 . 

"53 

"54 

" 55— Design for Lamp Mats — Application Embroidery 

" 56 — Application Border .... 

" 57 » <' . . 

"58 

"59 

" 60 — Border in Applique . 

"61 

" 62— Hand Screen in Chenille 
Medallion Lace and Insertion . . ■ 

Vandyke Lace, wiih Braid 
Inserti(m and Button-Hole Point . 
Punnet Lace .... 
Wheel Lace ..... 
Single Spider Web Lace, with Edge . 
Beaver Lace ..... 
Single Cliain and Shell Lace and Insertion 
Tortoise Shell Lace : Knitting 
Wi'leNoveltv Braid, with Crochet Edge 
Balbriggan Crochet Lace . , 

Oi-ochet Design for Tidy 
Lace for Flannel Skirts 
Feather Edge Laca 
Saw Tooth Edge in Crochet 
Wheel Lace 
Shell Lace 
Bee-Hive Lace . 
Pineapple Insertion 
Olover-Leaf Edging 
Crazy Lace . 
Strawberry Lace in Crochet 
Insertion for Strawberry Lace 



95 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Decorative Panel— Pond Lilies 
Decorated Gourd . 
Sofa Pillow, in Kensington 
Decorated Banner . 
Decorated Lamp SLade 
Hand-Painted Decorated Fan 
Screen, in Tapestry or Bronze Paimiug 
Shadow Pantomime— Fig. 1 

« 2 . 
" 3 . 

Work Table Cover 
Embroidery Deaigu s— Blackberry 
" " Initial Letter 

K t( « l« 

Work Basket 

Pillow Sbam . 

Clothes Brush Holder— No. 1 . 

Back of No. 1 

Hanging B.isket . 

Ornamental Scrap Bag 

Toilet Pincushion 

Needle Cushion . 

Pen Wiper 

Music Portfolio and Stand . 

Fancy Card Basket 

Screen 

Slipper Case 

Card-Receiver and Watch Case 

Toilet Bottle Case- Fig. 1 

" 2 . 

Catch-AU. 

Ottoman 

Toilet or Work Basket . 

Crochet Sofa Pillow or Bolster 

Handkerchief Box 

Wall Pocket . 

Floral Transparency 

Lamp Shade , 

Glove Box and Cover . 

Sachet 

Ladies' Fancy Bag Purse 

Scissor Case and Needle Cushion 

Hanging Portfolio 

Visiting Card Stand . 

Work JBasket, Open 

Closed 

Knitted Dressing Slipper — Fig. 1 

DetailofFig. 1-Fig. 2 
., u « « <> 3 _ 

Stand for Cigar Ashes 

Baby Basket 

Embroidered Chair Cover . 

Work Stand 

Ivy for Picture Frames 

Double Window and Plant Shelf 

Pretty Arrangement for Sitting Room Windows 

Bay Window with Plant Platform 

Deep Bay Window with Brackets . 

Ornamental Wardian Case . 

Rustic Hanging Basket 

The Mud System of Slipping Plants 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Rustic Flower Stand 
A Miuiatuie Gieeu House 
Meg.urljiza Cilif'-ruica 
BruuiiiH ralulua Nauun 
Kli) ucliucarija Glumei'ata 
Begouia Davisii . 
Au Ivy IScieeu 
A Liviug Vase 
A Waidiau Case 
Staud lor Fci-us . 
Trellis lor Plauts . 
A Washiug Macliiue 
Conveuient Clothes Bars 
Clothes Spriukler 



PAGE 

395 
. 397 

399 
. 399 

400 
. 400 

401 
. 402 

404 
. 406 

407 
. 471 

473 
. 475 



HOME DECORATION. 



Embroidered Chair—The chair in our illustration offers a suggestion 
to ladies clever iu applique work, being thus decorated on a grouud of 
olive green plush. As tapestry embroidery is now very fashionable, no 
one need be at a loss for 
a pretty chair, the plainest 
one being converted to an 
appearance of richness by 
an oblong of this work on 
the back and a square on 
the seat. Beautiful pat- 
terns can now be purchased 
with the materials and col- 
ors prepared lor the work- 
er's use. The colors are 
all of the rich low or old 
tones, and the effects 
gained by their use are 
wonderfully quaint and 
pleasing. Bright, crude 
colira are no longer used 
in decoration. — Ladies' 
World. 

Q,uaint Friezes, Over- 
mantels and Screens. — 

An amateur decorator tells 

of some pretty conceits for 

beautifying the house as 

follows : I saw a rather 

quaint frieze the other day 

for a staircase and hall, 

painted on the rough 

brown paper specially 

adapted for the purpose. esebboidered chaib. 

An old witch riding on the 

proverbial broom, with a moonlight sky ; another a fairy on a rainbow. 

Puck on his mushroom, owls on a crescent moon, and several other novel 

designs were roughly dashed in with wonderful effect. 

A pretty substitute for an overmantel is a mirror in a deep wooden 
frame, small curtains of yellow silk falling on either side. One seen had 
the upper part of the frame decorated with painted sprays of willow droop- 
ing on to the grass, while the lower portion was arranged with water lilies, 
a swallow being introduced here and there. On the mirror itself a couple 
of swans floated, reflected in the lightly painted water. The whole effect 
was very charming, and though a certain outlay of the "mighty dollar" 




U!i 



nOMJa VECOItATlON. 



was uecessary to begi.n with, the entire cost was less than would be imag- 
iiitd. 

Ovcrdoors are a great decorative addition to a room, three panels, a 
large center one bordered by two smaller ones mounted on a pointed 
frame, being effective, and handsome modeled flowers, birds or fruit are all 
suitable, and landscapes always look well if will done. 

A kitchen article that has been cleverly transformed into an artistic 
boudoir screen is the clothes horse, but not iu the way that has hitherto 
been seen. Three clothes horses, if double leafed, are required to make 
two screens, and they must be of graduated sizes and each one unhinged. 
One division, or half of each horse, is then taken and rehinged, and the re- 
sult is a screen of three sized graduated panels. The woodwork is painted, 
and the frame hidden with upper panels of painted cloth, brocade or plush, 
and lower ones in the dado style of drawn pongee silk. These screens are 
handsome and look well in a room. 

PhotograpU Case— Two views of a handsome photograph case are 
here given. The article is made much after the manner of a mouchxnr 




PHOTOGEAPH CASE— CLOSED. 

case ; it consists of a section of olive plush lined with pink Surah, the 
whole bemg «iven considerable thickness by layers of sheet wadding well 
sprinkled with sachet powder. The ends are folded under nearly to the 
center and lie edges brought together are seamed, thus forming pockets 
to contain the photographs. On the ouside near one end the word " Photo, 
graphs IS embroidered diagonally, and at the other end is fastened a 
bunch of pink carnations and a bow of wide soft ribbon, one end of which 
islnnged. Of course, there is no limit to the choice of colors and one 
color may be used throughout if desired. Rich oriental stuffs, brocades 
flowered fabrics, velvets, silks, etc., are suitable for such cases, and when 
flowers are applied, they should correspond with the perfume used The 
word decoration may be done in eDks, flosses, metallic threads, bullion or 



HOME DECORATION. 



13 



cord, as preferred. Sometimes the monogram or initials will be embrold* 
ered on one of the pockets. 

Decorative Notes.— Covers for occasional tables in Oriental embroid- 
ery are very pretty, writes Eva M. Niles in the Ladies' Home Companion. 
The designs are varied, and the coloring on each is arranged with due 
regard to the tint of the material. Smoke grays and electric blues seem to 
vie witb each other for priority of public favor. One of silk — green, sliot- 
gold — suggests a fine, old brocade, with its conventionalized pomegrauate 
wrought out in softly modulated but rich tints. Another appears especially 
adapted to serve as a mat beneath a lamp on the top of a grand piano, ft 
gives the brilliancy of efifect secured when numbers of bright blossoms are 
gathered together and tossed down without arrangement, for the dark, 
bluish ground is literally scattered over witli conventionalized flowers! 




PHOTOGRAPa CASE — OPEN. 

The Arab cloth is a slightly ribbed fabric, which lends itself peculiarly well 
to embroideries done with silks, as all these are, for the surface is suffi- 
ciently smooth for the outlines to appear clearly defined, and it has not the 
hardness of ordinary cloth, nor the harshness of serge. Stools, cushions, 
etc., are all made on the same principle of grouping tints with a view to 
obtiin harmonious results. 

To note what can be done in this way, a daring combination of crimson 
and scarlet is seen on a deep blue, satin ground, and the siaccess of the 
vent\ire is perfect. Terra cottas and crimsons are delightful in combina- 
tion, but it requires an artist's eye, educated and experienced, to balance 
the tints aright. Of the smaller articles, we will mention first the dainty 
opera and work-bags, greatly affected by our own American ladies ; but 
their English cousins think them suiBciently handsome to copy from. The 



II HOME 1)E< OR.\TION. 

thick, soft siitiua, and the shot aurahe, li::ed with exquiailely contrasting 
colors, and decoratod with variously-liued silks and finished ofiF with plaited 
silk and taasols. How can wo best describe them efficiently ? They are 
gems of color, and we can only advisio our lady readers to copy as near as 
possible. D'oylyca are also very beautiful. Intricate embroideries on the 
delicate cambric or Chinese silks make these articles of real value. Eigh- 
teen different designs form one set. Sachets, work-baskets, book-covers, 
scent-sachets and cards are to bo foniul in great numbers, and these are 
always acceptable presents. 

Aspleudid table-slip, which I saw recently, was worked by a lady as a 
present for a naval otiicer's mess. The coloring was selected purposely 
to set ofif advantageously the tine silver l)elongiug to the cutter. On a 
ground of bright Kold satin, a handsome design was carried out in delicate 
shades of gray-blue and yellow, relieved with white and outlined with a 
deeper shade of gray-blue ; the result was a tender, silver-gray harmony, 
v«:ry efTeetive and novel. 

Every year the demand for pretty articles, at a moderate price, grows 
more urgent. An artistic little work-table, of the Moorish style, is very 
pretty. It is of white enameled wood ; after this comes its claim on ac- 
count of its novelty. The top is composed of two flaps that open outward 
and disclose a firm, square work-bag, with compartments for scissors, 
thimble, needle-book, and so on. The outside of the bag will be draped 
with India silk, finished off with pompons. When the flaps are closed, it 
makes a convenient occasional table, and the top is to be tastefully painted 
with groups of flowers. 

Some pretty bed spreads ai-e made of No. 70 real Scotch linen thread, 
knitted in a lace pattern. These, with pillow-shams to match, and lined 
with colored silks, are very effective ; and, as good housekeepers say, 
" last forever." A bed-spread of fine linen has a large, central medallion 
of drawn-work, and a baud of the same above the lace- trimmed hem. 
Under the drawn-work a piece of sUk of the same size is basted. 

A dainty table-scarf is of pale-green velvet, embroidered in sprays of 
lily-of-the-valley and darker green foliage. It is lined with white China 
silk, and fringed at the ends with green, silk tassel-fringe in shades. An- 
other, of old-blue silk, has an all-over design of golden dragons, winged, 
and is lined and fringed with old-gold silk. 

A very handsome table cover is of thick, piled green velvet, with the 
owner's monogram worked in silver and gold threads, and a conventional 
border. It is finished with a dark-green chenille fringe, and a lining of 
yellow silk. 

An elegant fire-screen ia made as follows : It is divided into two rows of 
three panels, each of which is different in shape from its fellows. The 
lower panels are covered with the finest brocade ; whilst the smaller, upper 
division, upon which tjie attention of the spectator is chiefly concentrated, 
are of white, watered silk. Upon each silken pane is embroidered a differ- 
ent wreath of flowers and leaves, to which a still richer effect ia added by 
the surrounding stems, worked in silver thread. 

A bine room is a hazardous experiment, but there is a new blue matting 
of the finer sort which fairly tempts one to try its effect, not to cover the 
floor of a room, but alao to form the dado. The skirting board is of cream 
white, and above the dado runs a narrow, cream shelf, and above that the 
walls are painted in narrow, cream panels, framed in blue. Tlie draperies 
at the windows are of cream white, tied with burnt sienna and blue, and 



HOME DECORATION. 



15 



the door curtain is of burnt sienna, and some gilt-framed chairs are cov- 
ered in plush of the same color, others in blue, framed in white, and one 
or two are of mahogany of very nearly tlie same hue. Tliere is a big, white 
bear skin lying in front of the fireplace— not to hide the blending of blue 




OBNAMENTAL CALENDAR. 



and burnt sienna in its tiles — and a hammock with cushions of the two 
colors. 

Ornamental Calendar. _A unique style of calendar is here illus- 
trated. A square of cardboard forms the foundation, which is covered 



16 HOME DEUOliATlOX. 

smoothly with plush or velvet on one side and with silk on the other, and 
edged all round witli silk cord of thu same or a contrasting shade. Through 
one corner ia drawn a loop of cord, that serves to suspend the square, and 
the oi)po8ite corner is rolled over so as to deeply reverse the lower part of 
tlie square, m.iking a comparluient fur the reception of pencils, pens, etc. 
At eithtr side of the nil is fastened a silk cord which is carried forward 
diagonally and tied in a bunch of loops and two ends some distance below, 
the ends being tipped with tassels. A bunch of loops and two ends of cord 
are also fastened where each curd starts from, the ends also being tipped 
witli tassels. Above tlie roll a graceful rose^spray is hand-painted, em- 
broidered or appliqueed. Thii calendar is fastened underneath to the bot- 
tom of the roll from v. hich it depends. 

Portieres. —Portieres differ from window curtains in that they are 
usually made of heavier fabrics, and are somewhat simple in their treat- 
ment unless for elaborate drawing-rooms or boudoir use. They are no 
longer considered luxuries, but are fast developing into necessities. Por- 
tieres are made of a great variety of fabrics of difierent degrees of rich- 
ness, and there is no difficulty now-a-days to find materials to suit any 
position iu the house, Tlie simplest, cheapest, and most effective rough 
and ready portieres are made ot the best quality of burlaps, tlie warm 
coloring of wliich i-ecommeiids its use for certain doorways, such as for 
passages, piazza-doors, greenhouse entrances, doorway to kitchens, laun- 
dries, etc. Worsted or wood momie, linen momie, felt cloth, chevron 
tapestry, cotton Gjbelius, Moquette cretonne, French cotton tapestrii s, jute 
tapestries, petit points, Smyrna ci-oss-stripes, art-damask, Bolton sheeting, 
canton flannel and satin sheeting are among double-width materials sold 
by the yard for making up in portieres. 

The portiere in the illustration is composed of a figured material, pro- 
bably French tapestiy, and lianss from a doorway opening into a drawing- 
room ; it is bordered with ball fringe and lined with a material which makes 
it harmonize with the furnishings of the room beyond in which it is seen. 
This portiere is mounted in Flemish plaits, and the doorway being lofty, it 
does not draw aside at the top, but is raised at tlie side and held back by 
cords slipped over brass rosette-shaped holders. The upper cord loop is 
finished off by tassels and the lower one lelt plain. The opposite side of 
the doorway, as seen iu the illustration, is covered by a piece of the portiere 
material, but this is a treatment not to be commended, because it has 
nothing to recommend it ; for, if the woodwork is unsightly or of the wrong 
color, it can be changed by repairing or painting. This portiere is lined, 
but a great variety of materials are in vogue wliich need no hning. In re- 
gard to the looping back just described the writer would only countenance 
it for very liigh doorways and for rich materials that one cannot handle 
often. Where doorways are very high the hanging of a separate valance 
has a pleasing effect, as the valance remains stationary and the portiere can 
be drawn to and fro, and is most proper. 

Very wide doorways look better whr-n furnished with two portieres, and 
a very narrow doorway may be made to look like a wide one simply by 
having two portieres hung on a pole projecting on either side beyond the 
door posts or door frame, allowing the hansjings to conceal the woodwork 
entirely. It is not necessary or desirable to use a valance where the door- 
way is low, or only of medium height, as it would only still further dwarf 
already low entrances ; in such cases the following expedients may be used 



HOME DECORATION. 




f OBTIERE FOB A DRAVflNG-BOOM BOCBR, 



18 HOME DECO RATION. 

according to location ; if the portiere hangs before a doorway at the end of 
a passage, and the intention is to have it conceal a low door and ornament 
the passage, then hang the hanging or hangings from the lintel, as near the 
top as convenient. If the place of hanging is between two rooms, and the 
entrance wide or moderately so, a good plan is to haug two double-width 
portieres of tlio same or a different harmonizing material, one on one side, 
that is, one in one room and the other in the other room, to draw aside in 
opposite directions, both to bo on poles set in brackets on the Hnttl. 

A portiere of figured stuff does not really need ornamentation ; it may 
have a frieze of plain plush, velvet or flax-velours, or a dado if preferred, 
but tho majority look well without such ornamentation. Plain material 
portieres may, however, have various ornamental treatments, such as 
trimming with frieze and dado of plain or embroidered or figured materials ; 
they may also be decorated beautifully by applied designs in plush, satin 
or velvet, or combinations, or be embroidered with conventional flowei s at 
intervals, or with groups of interlaced riugs, squares or di8k^', or embroid- 
ery, or applique work or both, in either case having a band of plush across 
the top or bottom. Cords and tassels, long and short, suspended from the 
frieze band, also fringes used in the same manner, make a very oruiimental 
finish. Some materials ravel with handsome ravellings, such for example 
as chenille Turcoman, cotton canvas, and, I believe, Bolton sheeting ; when 
the portiere is made of any of these a pleasing finish is to set on a frieze of 
the same material showiuL; a fringe of ravelling sixteen or eighteen inches 
deep. Some workers ravel enou^'h to make a heading with two lyings 
forming a diamond network or openwork, which is very effecdve. In selec- 
ting portiires the main idea, independent of fabric, is to get the coloring 
that will harmonize with the interiors from which it will be seen. It may 
be added that golden brown, deep old gold, olive green, deep old red, 
maroon, and peacock blue are among the best colors to use ; gray- blue 
also is pleasing, as well asi terra-cotta and gulden olive. Many cross-stripe 
stuffs are also admirable, as are oriental patterned goods in lnw rich colors. 

Pincushion. — The following directions are for tlie orange pincushion, 
and require one-fourth ounce of bright orange-colored Germantown yarn, 
and about one-third as much shaded green. 

1. Chain 4 with the orange wool, join, and work 3 double in each stitch 
of the round. 

2. Work 3 double (m the first stitch, 1 double on the next stitch, and 
repeat, taking up always the two fr(mt loops of the jirevious round. 

3. Make 3 double in the centre stitch of the 3 double of the last round, 
and 1 d >uble in each of the tlireo between stitches. 

4. Three double on the centre stitch of the 3 double of the last round, 
and 1 double on each of the five between stitches. 

5. Three double on the centre stitch of the 3 double of last round, and 1 
double on each of the 7 between stirches. 

6. Three double in the centre stitch of the 3 double of last round, and 1 
double on each of the 9 between stiiches. 

7. Three double on the centre stitch of the 3 double of the last round, 
and 1 double on each of the 11 between stitches. 

3. Work 3 d'luble on the centre stitch of the 3 double of last round, and 
intermediately make 5 consecutive doubles, take up the next 3 stitches of 
preceding round, and knit them as 1 stitdi, make 5 consecutive doubles, 
and repeat this till you get round. Work 10 more rounds like this, and 
fasten off. 



HOME DEUO RATION. 19 

Decorative Folding Mirror. — Three panels of beveled glass com- 
pose tbis oruamental screen. Each section ie decorated with a liand-painted 
floral design, and ribbons pass through apertures made for the purpose 
and are tied in tiny bows. Glass panels of this kind may be purchased in 




DECOKATIVE FOLDING MIRROE. 

all stores dealina; in artists' materials, and sometimes a double mirror is 
preferred to a triple one. Such a screen unites the useful and the orna- 
mental iu a very efifective way, 

Reglet Stick liattice-work—Lattice- work is cheap, pretty and in 
every way a desirable and useful decoration. The only thing that has 
obtained against its popularity is the difficulty of getting sticks of proper 
length, width and thickness, and always tliree feet long, that are used in 
printing offices to fill out space in making up forms. 

An exceedingly pretty screen is made of reglet stick lattice-work with 
alternating cherry and pine sticks, set diamond-wise and lined either with 
silk or paper of a solid color any shade desired. A common pine easel 
can be transformed into a very pretty ornament by painting it black, sand- 
papering it until it is smooth, oiling and rubbing it until it looks like ebony, 
and introducing a lattice- work of the smaller sized reglet sticks below the 
lowest peg near the bottom. 

The door of a corner closet or cupboard is always expensive, besides, 
an ordinary door is by no means ornamental. A neiit, simple frame, filled 
in with reglet stick latlice-work, and lined with silk, cretonne, or any mate- 
rial desired, answers every purpose of a solid door at half the cost, and ia 



20 



IJOiME DECORATION. 



really quite decorative. A transom over a door can be artistically cur- 
tained by moaus of this lattice-worlf, and the upper part of a bay window 
filled with it, when the aliajie ia such tliat it can be made to fit, lined with 
silk of some soft briglit color,, is not only very pretty but imparts a toned 
light to tho room which is admirable. 

A shelf of a book-case used for odds and ends, as one shelf is almost 
sure to be, may be made attractive by being filled in with reglet lattice 
and lined with silk. Indeed there are so many places about a house where 
it may be used with admirable effect, that when an ingenious housekeeper 
once begins to use it slie will liardly know where to stop. Not only may 
lattice-work be made in diamomls, but also in many other forms, and when 




rAPl;E I^OOKLT. 



one has the reglet sticks, a hammer, and a paper of long finishing nails, 
many new designs may be evolved. 

Eeglot sticks are from tweuty-five to thirty cents a dozen, and at any 
newspaper office one can find out wiiere to get them. 

Paper-Pockef._An ordinary wire toaster or broiler is used for the 
foundation of this pocket. Tho toaster is painted with gold liquid paint, 
and wide ribbon in two shades arranged to alternate is run in and out 
through the wires, each strip of ribbon being in one continuous piece all 
round, tUus banking the sides ; the ends are neatly joined at the back. A 
ribbon bow is fastened to the top at the sides, and ribbon is also tied in a 
bow near the top of the longest handle by which the pocket is suspended. 
The ribb m may be in two shades of one color or in two contrasting colors. 



Home deoohatioi^. 21 

ot each row may be of a Jiffereut shade or color. Whcu coutrastiag uoloia 
are chosen care should be takea to procure a pleasing harmony. 

Domestic Art. — A pretty receptacle for flowers may be made at small 
expense by propping up and fixing three large wooden spoons or children's 
spades tripod fashion, and fitting in a small iron caldron with its handle 
removed, or a child's tin bucket. The whole must be painted all over, and 
a length of soft silk tied round the center is a great improvement. 

Small palettes are used as backgrounds for pincushions, and tied up on 
the wall with a ribbon passed through the tbumb-Lole and finished off in a 
bow. The cushion generally forms the center of a flower, such as a large 
daisy, the petals being painted on the palette, and other dasies grouped 
around ; or a sunflower, dahlia, etc. With a little taste the whole can be 
rendered artistic and attractive. The cushion is glued to the palette. 

Butter or egg baskets with handle and lid can be converted into delight- 
ful work receptacles by being lined with pretty cretonne, soft silk, or art 
muslin, fluted and full, with a length wound round the handle, and finished 
ofl'in a rosette or bow at one side. 

Painted palettes, with an aperture cut for a photograph, though not 
novel, have recently been brought to considerable artistic perfection at 
fasLiionable bazaars. The background is usually of white or some delicate 
color, and the flowers painted on it, twined lightly and gracefully round the 
apertui-e, with very often a name written across one of the lower corners. 

Painted battledores are another style of ornamental wall decoration, 
beautifully painted, with ribbon twisted round the handle, and a ruche of 
satin ribbon or a fall of colored balls or pompons round the edge. The 
parchment surface is delightful to paint upon. Movable calendar cards, 
slipping from beneath a paiuted band or border forming the frame, can be 
arranged without great difficulty. This border must be of card, about an 
inch wide, and glued to the battledore, except on the side where the cards 
slip in and out. The rest of the surface may be painted or neatly covered 
with satin. 

These battledores are also arranged crossways in couples, tied with 
ribbons, and have pockets attached to them to hold spills or letters. Some- 
times a small pincushion is added, fitted into a shuttlecock, at the base 
where the handle joins. They are usually painted as well, and thus com- 
bine useful and orn imental novelties. 

For other novel wall decorations, there are some quaint-looking long 
bags, tied at both ends with a contrasting color, and containing a wide- 
necked bottle, hidden from sight, but intended to hold grasses or ferns. 
They are made in two shades of art muslin, or in plush, lined and tied 
round with soft silk. The bottle may be of almost any shape, so that it has 
a large, round neck ; but those sold with sweets, or with pickles and fruit 
in syrup, round, and measuring about seven inches long and seven and a 
half inches in circumference, are the best. The bag should be about seven- 
teen inclies long and from thirty-six to forty inches wide. It is lined with 
a contrasting color at the top to the depth of four inches, and this forms a 
flap, falling backwards just above where the bag is tied tightly round the 
neck of the bottle. 

The strip of material tying the bag is also used for hanging the whole to 
the nail on the wall by being tied in a loop and bow ; another strip of ma- 
terial ties round the base of the bag at about three inches from the edge. 
The flap may be lightly tacked up, with artistic negligence, according to 



22 tlOME DKOORATWX. 

l.m y, at oUo aide, ui c.iught up with aspray of ivy or a few loops of ribbon. 
Terra-cotta and light green, brown aud salmon-pink, peacock-blue and 
deep gold, are good coutra«ts ; but tliese bag8, if given as presen's, should 
be made to suit a room or the tasie of the recipient. We have but given 
one size, but they can bo varied accordiug to taste and circumstances, and 
if a bottle is not forthcoming, a wall basket or a tin can can be substituted. 

These bags, carried out in two colors in art muslin, can be adapted to 
flower-pots, drain-tilen, holding ferns or grasses, and also clothes-baskets. 
For the clothes-baskeis, it requires to be double, or put over sateen ; and 
the bag is best left open at each end. If anything very nice is required, 
finish off the ends of the length of muslin, tying round the bag at top and 
base with worsted or silk pompons of the two colors. 

Some delightfully soft cushions, stuffed with cider or Arctic down, are 
in the shape of a large diamond, heart, square, or shamrock, covered with 
plain or brocaded silk or plush aud edged with silk cord. 

A groat deal of taste and ingenuity may be displayed in grouping the 
colors aud arranging the different material. Many of them have a motto 
extolling rest, comfort, or sleep, copied from some of the poets. Three 
■cushions, each entirely different, are used on a lounge now, and any num- 
ber of header back rests are scattered around easy chairs. 

A beautiful sachet, intended for a wedding present, is of wliite satin per- 
fumed with dried orange blossoms, edged with genuine Valenciennes lace, 
and painted in water colors, the design representing two love-birds resting 
upon a spray of orange blossoms. 

A handkerchief sachet of an almost square form is of cream colored satin 
painted with sprays of white flowers, lined with pink plush aud edged with 
tiny pink pompons. 

Pretty counterpanes are made of squares of ecru or cream linen, not too 
fine, embroidered with washing cotton or silk in red, blue or gold, and 
joined together with hand-knit linen thread lace, or a strong piece of the 
Medicis lace, and finished with an edging to match. 

Beautiful chair-seats, stools, sofa aud pin cushions are of striped bro- 
cade, rather in the style of Louis XVI., with designs of flower sprays em- 
broidered on the plain stripes. 

Tea-cloths are about a yard and a half square, and two are frf quently 
given as a bridal present. White, embroidered with gold-colored silks, is 
very stylish. One of pure white linen is decorated with a few swallows m 
neutral brown skimming over the surface, with several resting on railings, 
forming a border all around. 

Wlien one or two are prepared for gifts, it is a dainty idea to send with 
it a tiny white sachet folded with the tea-cloth, which, in turn, is tied up in 
a small square with a length of white ribbon, before putting it in a pretty 
box. 

Sachets of fine white linen are beautifully ornamented with hem-stitch- 
ing, drawn work, and outline embroidery done with wash silks. This cover 
is drawn over the satin sachet containing the powder and waddiilg. Orris- 
root, violet, heliotrope aud white rose are the favorite perfumes, and the 
embroidery should indicate the contents, as violets, roses, etc. 

Chamois-skin is used for sachet and work bags, tobacco- pduches, covers 
of shaving papers, etc. The edge is slit into a fine fringe by snipping the 
skin up an inch deep and an eighth of an inch wide. It is embroidered or 
painted, and lined with satin. When drawn up with ribbons, they are 
threaded in aud out of tiny slits cut in the skin. 



HOME DECORATION. 23 

Pin-cushions ai-e ever popular, and among the newest are those fitted 
into round Japanese woven baskets, sold in nest or sets, without handles. 
The cushion is made round and firm. First is a piece of muslin, tied tightly 
round to keep it compact, and then with a pretty piece of brocade, satin or 
))lush. It looks like a large mushroom with a short stalk. The inner edge 
of the basket ii thi-n t,'lued all round (Lepage's glue being the best to use), 
and the cushion fitted tightly in. It should be made to fit well, and rather 
larger than the basket, or it is apt to slip down. 

When dry, a narrow fancy ribbon is tied round the edge and finished 
off in a smart bow. These cushions are newer than those fitted into Russian 
bowls. The wooden spade ones comes next in novelty. A child's smallest 
sized wooden spade has four little holes bored in the bowl, if it may be so 
expressed, through which narrow ribbon is passed, and tied in two bows at 
the back ; this ribbon secures tbe pin-cushion previously made and fixed 
to the spade by a touch of glue. 

The little cushion should be of any pretty, bright color, with or without 
a narrow frill, all round, and well covered with pins. A ribbon is wound 
round the handle and finished off with a large bow. Sometimes there is a 
bow at the top and base of the handle. 

It would be difficult to exceed in luxury the boudoirs of the young girls 
of the present day who are actual or prospective heiresses. AH that the 
most elaborate brass work in repouxse can do to give brilliancy ; all that 
biaeuit and terra cotta can do to give daintiness ; all that lace can do to 
soften ; satin, plush, and Oriental hangings, to give character ; and Japanese 
and Chinese screens, idols, fans, and embroideries to impart the aimed-at 
grotesgiten'e— has been done by the most expensive means. 

Fancy "Work Notes. — Concordia canvas is a new textile for embroider- 
ing upon, and has won much favor. It comes in single and double widths ; 
the latter, forty-five inches wide, makes pretty table covers. Concordia 
fringed scarfs, tidies and toilet sets are novelties, and take readily to darned 
embroidery. 

Among novelties are bed spreads in Bolton sheeting, with the embroid- 
ery commenceil. Cotton moquette is another new fabric to be embroid- 
ered, among other purposes, for bed-spreads and portieres. Hemp braided 
bureau and lamp mats are also novelties. A pretty hemp fringe comes for 
decorating them. The yellow, green, and garnet mats are pretty for many 
decorative purposes. 

One can make a novel and pretty lamp-shade in the following way : Cut 
five pieces of stiff white net, such as is used in making summer bonnet 
shapes, in the form of a flower petal, an elongated rose pital, or a short 
water lily petiil. Next, cut sprays of gay pink flowers from cretonne, and 
paste one on each shape, afterward covering tliem on both sides with pink 
muslin, buttonholing the front and back linings to the shape. Next, over- 
cast tiie five pieces together with pink silk, and trim around the five scal- 
lops forming the bottom of the shade, with a frill of soft, deep cream lace. 
Put a frill, or pleating, around the top, to stand upright, then trim down 
the joinings of the five shapes with cascades of loops and ends of rose pink 
ribbon. Leave one seam half open at the top, so the shade can be slipped 
easily over the usual wire frame, and tie together with ribbon. 

A Scarf In Couching. —Take garnet felt about a yard and a half in 
length, with the ends stamped in three large scallops. On the pattern lay 
the double worsted or Columbia yarn, and catch it down with rich Japan- 



21 



UO^fE DECOIiA riON. 



ese silk. That is what ia called couching, and if it is done regularly it ia 
very effective. Three rows of this form the outside. The inside is all 
done in tinsel. Catch this down wiih black or garnet silk, so as not to show 
the stitches. The worsted catch down with j'ellow silk. The more em-- 
broidery you do with the yellow, the prettier your scarf will be. Finish 
the ends with plush balls. 

Fancy Table Cover— For a round or square table this is a handsome 
cover. The material is olive-green plush, and a rich border trimming is 

provided by a floriated ribbon. A 
row of narrow gold Iringe borders 
the corner, and the entire pattern 
on the ribbon is followed with 
gold tinsel thread. The result 
achieved is brilliant and arlistie. 
A card-basket, a lamp, an album, 
or any preferred ornament may 
be appropriately set on the table. 

Silk Portieres. — Scraps of 
silk, satin and velvet will make 
lovely portieres, table covers and 
quilts, when sewed in rag-carpet 
style and woven according to the 
new process done by a weaver in 
New York only. A fine linen 
warp, Turkey red in color, is 
used, and hardly shows from the 
manner in which the silk is ar- 
ranged over it. The curtains do 
not sag, and are finished with a 
plain border, if the material is 
mixed, and vice versa, a band of 
plush crazy work, or a Roman 
striped, woven border. A trifle 
of tinsel woven in affords an ef- 
fective contrast. A finit^h on the 
lower end is made of the silk 
rags, and resembles chenille 
fringe. The Turkish curtain is 
composed of broad, panel stripes, 
divided by narrower ones of 
brighter colors. Tinsel braid can be sewed in with the pattern known as 
"hit or miss." 

Bias or straight scraps may be used ; cutting them evenly gives a 
smoother weave ; after cutting them about half an inch wide, three quar- 
ters of an inch of very thin silk, and any length, except for the " hit or 
miss," when they should never be over a yard long. Lap the pieces half 
an inch, and sew them as you would a rag carpet ; then roll in pound balls. 
One and a quarter pounds of silk will make a yard of material fifty-one 
inches wide ; one pound makes a yard forty-five inches wide ; three-quar- 
ters of a pound answers for a yard twenty-seven inches wide. The warp is 
furnished by the weaver. 

This offers a new field for the lovers of scrap work. As an estimate, 




FANCY TABLE COVER. 



HOME DECORATION. 



25 



seven and a balf pouuds of rags will rn^ike a pair of fifty-one inch wido por- 
tieres, each three yards long. Fresh and spiled scraps of silk may be util- 
ized. II new pieces are bought, it will be well to remember that bright, 
solid colors or stripes are more showy than brocades. 

Fancy Worlt-Bag. The foundation of this bag is a small, round bas- 
ket. Around the top is gathered the lower edge of the bag portion, which 
is composed of rows of fancy and plain ribbon. Each row of ribbon is of 
a different variety or shade, and some of the rows aro gathered slightly 
along tbe side edges so as to produce as odd an effect as possible. The 




FANCY WORK BAG. 



top of each row is shaped in a point, and the bag is drawn in as closely as 
desired by a shirring some distance below the top, the points looking like 
tulip petals above the shirring. A wrinkled ribbon covers the shirring, 
and a large bow of ribbon ia fastened where its ends meet. The top of the 
basket is decorated with ostrich tips altei-nating with groups of ripe-look- 
ing fruit. Flowers, leaves, moss, etc., may take the place of the tips and 
fruit. If the ribbons are neatly joined with over-and-over stitches the bag 
need not bo lined. 

Curtain for Corner Hanging Closet. — The very picturesque and 
pleasing curtain given in our illustration and used for portiere purposes is 
composed of Aida canvas embroidered with a conventional ornament 
worked in red embroidery cotton, or in any color combination desired, in 
crosa-bar or plait stitch, each stitch being worked over two canvas squares. 



2C 



HOME DEL'O RATION. 



in the height, and one in the widtij. For the making of thia curtain a width 
of the canvas thirty-two and three quarter inchoa wide and two yards long 
is used, A border is added to the curtain, giving it a wider sweep and a 
picturesque finish ; this is finished off by a fringe couched on the stuff. A 
handsome cord and tassels for drawing the curtain aside adds to its attrac- 
tiveness. A cornice set 
above the cui'tain pole 
fronts a triangular board 
forming the closet top ; 
this board hns its under 
side studded with hooks 
screwed in it for hanging 
up dresses. Not only is 
this curtain picturesque 
and ornamental, but it is 
also an article of utility, 
a corner not otherwise 
useful being converted 
by its means into a clos- 
et. This is an instance 
of the utilization of cor- 
ners, and shows how a 
houHc not blessed with 
much closet space may 
have this defect rem- 
edied. Pleasing closets 
may be made in other 
apartments than the 
chamber, and the cur- 
tains, therefore, should 
be in accordance. For 
halls, worsted stuffs, fig- 
ured or plain, velvet- 
tens, and flax-velours 
may be used, and for 
<lining-rocm corner clos- 
ets something of the 
same order ; and it may 
be jidded, where the 
housewife has no time 
fur embroidery, pretty 
chintzes and cretonnes 
are quite in order for 
upper room closets. — 
Ladies' World. 

Tlie Daisy Tidy— Materials : one piece of serpentine braid No. 30, 
one-half ounce of buttercup-yellow worsted ; one yard of ribbon No. 16 ; 
one and onf'-half yards torchon lace. 

Besin by counting nine points of briiid, then double it, join the ends 
firmly together, and cut the braid loose. Pinch each point one after an- 
other and draw all the points closely together, being careful to take each 
one as it is drawn up. When all the points are gathered up, the shape of 
the daisy will appear. Sew the daisy by the centre to a small piece of 




CURTAIN FOE CORKER HANGING CLOSET. 



HOME DECORA TlOK. 



27 



crape uet, which is trimmed off so as uot to be seen. Fill iu the ceuire of 
the daisy with the worsted in any pretty way. Make 36 daisies and join 
them in squares containing nine daisies each. Cat the ribbon iu half, and 
fray out the ends an inch and a half deep. Cross the two pieces of ribbon 
and baste in tlie centre to keep in place. Join each square of daisies to each 
centre of the ribbon. Full on the face ; let the ends of ribbon come out 
over it. 

PilloTT-Sliam.— A square of sheet linen, with a hemstitched hem about 
its edees and a handsomely embroidered monogram in its center, forms 
the center-piece of this attractive pillow-sham. A row of fine insertion is 







|.!l1lV!=iV:^!§ 



Sylijll 























^M^i^y^y^^i, 



PTLLOW SHAM. 



sewed to the hem edges of the square, and to the insertion is sewed a 
folded piece of the linen, hemstitched to suggest a broader hem than that 
completing the square. A frill of wide embroidery finishes the sham 
daintily. A sheet-sham, mado to correspond with pillow-shams of this 
style, furnishes an exquisite dressing for a bed. Lace or embi'oidery may 
be used as garniture. Sometimes such shams are underlaid with silesia 
or satin of some deiicate or bright hue, but a spotless whiteness is much 
to be preferred. 

Home Art. — A receptacle for shoes and slippers is most convenient 
and may be made an article of decoration as well. A pretty and easily 
made shoe bag may be made of cretonne, in some pretty pattern ; a floral 
design is the prettiest. A square of the material forma the back or founda- 



28 HOME DECORAflON. 

tion of the bag, iiud iipou tbia are arranged two rows of pockets. Each 
row ia made by a atraiglit piece of the cretonne, laid in four box plaita, and 
stitched acroas the lower edge to the back ; a row of stitching is also made 
midway between the box plaits ; and the lower edge of the lower row of 
pockets is placed even with the lower edge of the back. The tops of the 
pockets are bound with braid, and also all the edges of the bag. A full 
bow of braid is fastened at the top of each pocket, and at each upper corner 
of the bag is fastened a loop ot braid, to which ia attached a brass ring to 
be passed over nails in the wall or door. 

A sand roll is useful to lay across a music book to keep it open on the 
piano. Take a piece of plush four inches wide and nine inches long, sew 
up one side lengthwise and gather at one end, make a bag of muslin the 
same size and fill with sand, then slip this into the plush cover, gather the 
other end and finish with a plush ball at each end. 

A novel table cover is of white corduroy, lined with silk and edged with 
silk cord, with a silk tassel at each corner. 

A pretty and unique catchall ia of celluloid, cut diamond shape, lined 
with apple-green ailk and three cornera turned together, like an envelope, 
and the edges laced together with silk or gilt cord. The corners may be 
painted with a cluster of flowers or any small design. A bow of ribbon is 
placed at the top for suspending the catchall. This is pretty and easy to 
make. 

To make a pretty match receiver take a globe-shaped straw basket and 
gild it, fastening on one aide a bunch of gilded acorns, placing a bow of 
ribbon where the acorns are attached. Then fasten two pieces of ribbon 
at the opposite aides of the basket, making loops wliere it is fastened on. 

A pretty haudkeichief box may be made as follows : Take a cigar box 
and cover the outside with deep blue plush, lining it with rose colored silk. 
Pad the top of the box slightly before covering, and paint or embroider on 
it a cluster of apple blossoms. Finish the edge with a frill of lace. 

A handsome tidy is made of deep cardinal satin ribbon and white orien- 
tal or Egyptian lace. Take a piece of coarse white net, the size you wish 
your tidy to be, and on this sew alternate rows of ribbon and lace. Finish 
with a deep frill of lace all around. Draw together in the center and tie 
loosely with narrow ribbon of the same shade as that used for the tidy. 
Fasten in position on the chair or aofa with safety pins. — Margaret Percy. 

How to Malce a Sideboartl Cover. — A very useful cove"r for a side- 
board can be made of decorative felt or canton flannel. Take a strip just 
the width of the top, and let it be long enough to hang over on each end 
nine or ten inches. If you use canton flannel, buy the double-faced ; if 
decorative felt, line it with silk finished silesia to match its shade exactly. 
Apply upon the ends figures or flowers cut out of cretonne or furniture cov- 
ering, and button-hole them upon the felt. Or mark the ends in some 
pretty design and work them in outline stitch. Trim the ends with cater- 
pillar or chenille worated fringe in ahaded colors ; or with gilt half moons 
■with tassels of filoselle drawn through. 

Pretty Handkercliief Case. — Cut a piece of pasteboard, eight inches 
square, and four triangular pieces, one side of each being eight inches long. 
Cut also the same number of pieces of thin cardboard. Cover the paate- 
board neatly with olive satin, and the cardboard with bright rose color, 
and sew together. Take a strip of olive satin one and one-half yards long 
and three inchea wide, and one of pink ; sew on each edge, trim and ehirr. 



HOME DECORATIOX. 2a 

Sew one edge of the piifif to the edge of the square board, and the other 
pieces to the top. On each of the triangular pieces, paint or embroider a 
little spray of flowers or an initial, and bows of ribbon at the corners. 

Drapery for Screen. — This handsome drapery is a Ions: width of China 
silk caught over one corner of a screen as piclured and tied in a large, 
loose knot, with one end to fall much shorter than the other. Each end is 
finished with a wide hem, above which is a broad band of velvet of a pea- 



DRAPEKY FOR SCREEN. 

cock-blue shade, the silk being bright orange. The longer end is also 
decorated with small plush balls arranged to hang in a row from the edge 
of the hem and from the lower edge of the band. 

A Pretty and Useful Tidy. — For a sitting-room or bed-chamber a 
pretty and useful tidy can be made of ecru canvas. The size should be 
BuflScient to cover the entire back of the chair. In the center the threads 
are drawo longitudinally to the width of two inches and a half, an4 are fin- 



30 



HOME DECORATION. 



ished at tie sidea with feather stitch in gold silk. A piece of dark green 
ribbon io run through the threads at regular iutorvala. The threads on 
the upper side of the ribbon arc caught by a single thread from the top to 
the bottom. On cither aide tbis cent' r are alternate strips of plain and 
drawn canvas about an inch and a half wide. The first <trip has a herring 
bone or feather stitch design in piiilc silk on the canvas; the next strip is 
drawn canvas, edged with pale blue feather stitch, a piece of pink ribbon 
running through the drawn work ; then a strip of canvas has a herring 
bone of yellow silk ; then a strip of drawn canvas, edged with pink silk, 
through which pale blue ribbon is run. The outer edges are of plain can- 
vas worked in feather stitch with blue ami cardinal floss silk. Tlje top and 
bottom of the tidy are fringed. 

WiiidoAv Lambrequin. — Tliis lambrequin, though rich and elaborate 
looking, is exceedingly simple in shape and is a sample of one pretty result 




WINDOW LAMBREQUIN. 

of water colors on Nottingham lace. Tlio flowers and foliage are all col- 
ored in their natural tints, and a row of lace edging borders the lambre- 
quin. Any pattern in lace may be selected, and the lambrequin should be 
cut 80 as to display the colored pattern to best advantage. 

A Plush Craiy Q,uilt. — Having obtained a considerable quantity of 
waste pieces of upholstery plush, writes a correspondent of the Brattleboro 
Household, from a large and floui-isliing furniture est iblishment, the novel 
idea occurred to me, to utilize tbem for a crazy patchwork quilt. I was 
fully aware of the time and labor involved in such an undertaking, having 
had some previous experience in converting these waste pieces into cov- 
erings for arm-chairs, lambrequins, and small fancy boxes. I will add 
that these pieces were beautiful, many of the pieces being of embossed 
plush, in all the various fashionable colors and shades, red and old gold 



HOME 1)EC0 RATION. 31 

predomiuatiDg. They were also in all sizs from a quarter of a yard down 
to pieces of a very small size, and many of them of irregular sliape. 

I decided, as it would be more couveuieut to handle, to make the quUt 
in strips instead of blocks. Accordingly, from heavy factory, I tore out five 
strips of the correct length and width to make a large-sized quilt. I laid 
each strio as I began working on it, on a flat surface, and commenced at 
one end 'basting on the pieces, sliglitly overlapping the edges, and judi- 
ciously arranging the colors, without regard to size or shape. As soon aa 
a strip was completed, I side-stitched it firmly to the lining, and drew out 
the basting threads. When the five strips were completed, I sewed the 
lining together, overlapping the plushes so as to conceal the seams. 

Now, lest some sister should form an erroneous idea of the time and 
labor spent on the quilt thus fir, I will say that it required my spare time 
for weeks to get it together, and a still longer time to embroider each seam 
in the quilt. No elaborate embroidery was undertaken, only the easiest 
and most simple kinds, from the fact that the plush had so firm a body that 
it would often wear the thread off every few inches. I used different shades 
of zephyr and a very coarse needle. Siik embroidery would have been 
nearly lost in the pile of the plush. 

For ihe lining, I used a plain brown sateen, and one pound of cotton 
batting, and tacked it to the lining the same as a comforter, only I made a 
blind stiich on the upper side, and tied the thread on the other side. 

Many who admire ci'azy work are extravagant in praise of its beauty. 
It is at least a serviceable piece of bedding which no breith of air can 
penetrate, and may be used as a spread or as a comforter according to 
one's tasie. If any sister should have the temerity to attempt a quilt of 
this kind, I would suggest that she use very heavy cloth for the interlining ; 
for instance, old ticking could be washed, starched and ironed smoothly, 
and be utilized for this purpose. It is very difficult to make the pieces lie 
smooth on anything but heavy cloth. 

Five O'cloclt Tea ClotUs, Etc—Five o'clock tea cloths are now a 
necessity, and can be made in many styles, among others, with the Ger- 
man cut-work borders. 

The design is stamped on the goods, and then run with a very heavy 
thread, with the excepiion of the cross lines, or connecting lines, which are 
caught from edge to edge, leaving the linen underneath untouched. These 
lines it is best to do with double thread, and each one is closely button- 
lioled with the linen thread. After these are finished the whole design is 
closely button- holed, which gives a firm edge. The straight line on the 
upper edge is also button-holed. Cut the linen away from the finished 
edge of the design under the cross lines. This gives an open-work border 
of great beauty and strength. 

Sometimes to save work the connecting lines are done iu crochet cord, 
without the buttou-holiug. This is more delicate and lacey in effect. 

Where the threads cross, or are caught into each other, if one cares to 
spend the time, pretty wheels are woven in around the threads. Occasion^ 
ally it is necessary to have a double line, or part of line, which is no ob- 
jection. This work is done in silk for tea cloths, table mits, pillow shams, 
and bed spreads, in fact, anywhere where a border is needed — it is always 
beautiful. A most exquisite bed-set was made not long since of cream 
Tuscan silk, with bnriler in soft pink — pillow shams the same. In the cen- 
ter was a bunch of the large English clematis in four shades of pink. The 



32 



HOME DECORATION. 



shams had a small spray oa each ono of a dififercnt design. When finished, 
the whole was a beautiful and really elegant piece of work. 

Speaking of bod-spreads, one of the most serviceable materials is 
deuim — blue being the beat color. A border design may be cut from the 
material and reversed on the spread. Smalkr designs may be cut and 
powdered over the spread also. These may be couched in crewel or silk 
in self colors and crossed with the same. The stitches in work like this 
should be nearly, if not quite one-eighth of an inch long, and four or five 
threads of English crewel on one strand of filoselle used as couching 
thread. This style of work will be very satisfactory, it the contrast of color 
is good, and the eli'ect bold and stiiking, yet artistic. 



Painted and Embroidered Curtain. — The pleasing curtain shown in 
our illusiratiou is decorated in dye colors and embroidery, and is com- 
posed of coarse linen in 
this case, painted in water 
and broi;ze colors and out- 
lined with coarse Bargar- 
ren threads. This design 
may be used on canvas to 
give a tapestry effect, thin- 
ned oil colors or tapestry 
dye colors being used for 
the coloring ; in this case, 
the canvas must be plain- 
ly stretched like tapestry, 
and attached to the wall. 
Thus painted, tliis desigu 
will be suitable for a stair- 
landing decoration, or for 
the walls of an ante-room. 
The design shows large 
waving poppies set among 
luxuriant foliage and stalks 
of smaller blossoms. In 
this case, the foliage has 
tlie lights set. on in gold 
and the flowers are almost 
entirely in gold with the 
lights set on in silver. The 
painting is done with a stiff 
brush, the colors laid on 
thiclily, either bronze color 
being used, or gold and sil- 
ver powder mixed with a 
medium. In the latter case 
only a litlle should be 
mixed at a time, as it dries rapidly. For use in other rooms, say as a por- 
tiere in a parlor, it is not advisable to paint in bronzes, as the efi"ect would 
be coarse and only suitable to be s>^en in a shadowed place at a distance, 
as on the stair-landing, or in a hall. For the parlor paint in thinned oil 
colors, and work the outlines of the whole design in crewel or Bargarren 
threads, according to the material used for the ctirtaiu. The bottom of the 




PAINTED AND EMBROIDERED CURTAIN. 



HOME DECORATION. 



33 



curtain is finished by a fringe of the frayed threads of the stufif, knotted 
together. For this purpose, the threads are divide-l in groups, an ludi 
apart, crossed twice and ihen aimply kuot^ed together.— iadtes' World. 

Palette Penwiper— Either a penwiper or a sliaving-paper case can be 
thus constructed. The palette may be cut from pasteboard, or its shape 
in thin wood may be inexpensively purchased at any fancy store. It is 
covered with velvet or plusli on one side and with silk or satin on the other 
side, and is edged all round 
with silk cord. The papers in 
different colors, or the wipers 
in one or more colors of flannel, 
chamois, cloth, etc., are then 
added. Three camel's - hair 
brushes are tied together with 
featlier or other fancy edged 
ribbons and fastened to the 
palette as pictured, and the 
usual dashes of paint charac- 
terizing a much-used palette 
are added to produce a realistic 
eflfect. These paint splashes 
may be simulated with em- 
broidery silks, if desired. Any 
preferred color maybe used for 
the covering, which may be of 
any desired material. Two or 
even three shades of ribbon 
may be tied aliout the handles, 
and one end may show the em- 
broidered or painted initials of 
the owner. 

Decorative Curtains. — In 
doing fancy work, it is a great 
consideration to many, either to 
use what is in the house, or, 
when getting new material, to 
buy that which can be used after the beauty of the article is gone, or the 
style is past. Particularly so when it takes a number of yards, as do por- 
tieres and drapery curtains. 

The blue or brown overall cloth makes up very handsomely when used 
for a curtain before a closet door, or before a door between two rooms. Of 
course, it cannot vie in point of beauty with plush, but often it will harmo- 
nize better with its surroundings, and can be used a second time, as fancy 
work is apt to be a " thing of beauty," but not a "joy forever." 

In measuring the quantity required, allow for a hem a quarter of a yard 
deep at the bottom, and one half-yard longer than from the top of the door 
casing to the floor. This extra half-yard should have a hem on it two 
inches deep, and is to hang over the top of the curtain proper. It is a good 
plan to w sh the cloth before making it up, which will take out the stiffen- 
ing. Care must be taken in ironing, to pull it smoothly and evenly. 

They hang better if lined. In that case it is not essential to put a hem 
on t!ie sides, but if it is not deemed necessary to put in a lining, have a 




PALETTE PENWIPEK. 



34 



HOME DECORATION. 



hem on each side, one or two inches deep. These are to be embroidered 
in outline stitch, with German yarn. White is the most effective, though 
colors can be used. 

For the upper or turn over part a design of flowers or butterflies ia 
pretty, put on above the hem. Have the design rather compact, so the 
effect will be heavier than that of the lower part, for which can be selected 
a sprawling vine, or a set figure put on at intervals all over the cloth. Dia- 
mond or round shapes are effective, putting two together, letting one over- 
lap on to the other. Cut a cardboard the desired shape and mark around 
it on the cloth with a colored pencil. These are especially appropriate for 
summer cottages. 

Fancy Sachet. — Three shades of grosgrain libbon are used in this 
sachet. The ribbons are frayed to form a deep fringe at the bottom and 
are joined to form a bag which is filled with cotton well sprinkled with tlie 

favorite perfvmie powder. Fancy 
stitching is made on either side of all 
the seams ; the top of the bag is faced 
with silk, and far enough below the 
top to form a full, pretty frill, it is 
closed by a wide feather-edged rib- 
bon that is gracefully tied in an im- 
mense bow, the words "Birthday 
Greeting " embroidered in bullion 
decorating the loops. Any preferred 
colors may be selected for the sachet, 
three shades of heliotrope, green, 
blue or yellow being especially effec- 
tive. The ribbons may be of different 
colors. 




Knitted Counterpane. — This 
counterpane is to be knitted in stripes 
and then sewed together. There will 
be a stripe of apple-leaf insertion and 
an alternate stripe, and the effect is 
very pretty. 

Take No. 8 Dexter cottOn or four- 
threaded German knitting cotton. No. 
10, cast on 56 stitches, and knit 
across plain. 

First row— S 1, k 1, o, n, k 8, p 2, 

k 7, n, o, p 2, o, slip and bind, k 7, n, 

p 2, k 9, o, n, o, n, k 1. (54 stitches.) 

Second row— S 1, p 5, klO, p 5, k 1. 

(54 stitches.) 

Third r^w— S 1, k 1, o, n, o, n, k 8, 
p 2, 8 and b, k 5, n, p 2, o, p 2, s and 
b, k 5, n, p 2, k 9, o, n, o, n, k 1. (51 stitches.) 

Fourth row— S 1, p 5, k 10, p 7, k 10, p 5, k 1. (51 stitches.) 
Fifth row— S 1, k 1, o, n, o,'n, k 8, p 2, s and b, k 3, n, p 2, o, k 1, o, p 2, 
s and b, k 3, n, p 2, k 9, o, n, o, n, k 1. (49 stitches.) 

Sixth row— S 1, p 5, k 10, p 5, k 2, p 3, k 2, p 5, k 10, p 5, k 1. (49 
stitches.) ■ 



FANCY SACHET. 



HOME DECORA TION. 35 

Seventh row~S 1, k 1, o, n, 6, n, k 8, p 2, a and b, k 1, n, p 2, o, k 1, o, 
k a in one stitch, o, k \-,o, p 2, s and b, k 1, n, p 2, k 9, <-, n, o, n, k 1. (50 
stitches.) 

Eiglith row— S 1, p 5, k 10, p 3, k 2, p 3, k 2, p 3, k 2, p 3, k 10 p 5, k 1. 
(50 stitches.) 

Ninth row— S 1, k 1, o, n, o, n, k 8, p 2, k 3 together, p 2, k 1, o, k 1, o, k 
1, p 2, k 1, o, k 1, o, k 1, p 2, k 3 together, p 2, k 9, o, n, o, n, k 1. (50 
stitches.) 

Tenth row— S 1, p 5, k 9, k 3 together, k 1, p 5, k 2, p 5, k 1, k 3 together, 
k 9. p 5, k 1. (46 stitches.) 

Eleventh row— S 1, k 1, o, n, o, n, k 8, p 3, k 2, o, k 1, o, k 2, p 2, k 2, o, 
k 1, o, k 2, p 3, k 9, o, n, o, n, k 1. (50 stitches.) 

Twelfth row— S 1, p 5, k 8, n, k 1, p 7, k 2, p 7, k 1, n, k 8, p 5, k 1. (48 
stitches.) 

Thirteenth row— S 1, k 1, o, n, o, n, k 8, p 2, k 3, o, k 1, o, k 3, p 2, k 3, 
o, k 1, o, k 3, p 2, k 9, o, u, o, n, k 1. (52 stitches.) 

Fourteenth row— S 1. n 5, k 10, p 9, k 2, p 9, k 10, p 5, k 1. (52 stitches.) 

Fifteenth row— S 1, k 1, o, n, o, n, k 8, p 2, k 4, o, k 1, o, k 4, p 2, k 4, o, 
k 1, o, k 4, p 2, k 9, o, n. o, n, k 1. (56 stitches.) 

Sixteenth row- S 1, p 5, k 10, p 11, k 2, p 11, k 10, p 5, k 1. (56 stitches.) 

Repeat the pattern from the first row for the length of stripe reqixired. 

Alternate Stripe.— GasI on 54 stitches and knit across plain. 

First row— S 1, k 2, o, k 8, s and b, k 2, n, k 8, o, k 4, o, k 8, s and b, k 2, 
n, k 8, o, k 3. 

Second row— S 1, p 2, k 9, p 4, k 9, p 4, k 9, p 4, k 9, p 2, k 1. Repeat 
these two rows for length required. Sew the stripes neatly t'>gether and 
trim the counterpane all round with edging. The number of stripes is reg- 
ulated by the width of the counterpane. 

Pincnsliion— An English muffin pincushion is a novel idea, and is 
made as follows : Take one yard of Canton flannel, cut in strips one and 
one half inches wide, sew the strips together at narrowest part till you have 
one very long strip. Then commence and roll tightly, as tape is rolled, or 
as physicians roll bandages. The cushion when round should be four and 
one half inches in diameter. Cover with one layer of cotton batting. Cut 
pieces "f plush one half incli larger than the cushion, cover neatly and sew 
to the flannel. A narrow strip of the batting is put around cushion. This 
is covered with three quarters of a yard of robin shade of plush. The rib- 
bon may or may not be feather stitched on each side. Make a loop of one 
quarter of yard of some kind of ribbon to hang by. Fill a small brass ring 
with single crochet, run the loop tlirough that before fastening to cushion. 
Stick sixteen pins, four in a row, on each side of cushion, to look like a 
cracker. 

Hanging Portfolio — This is made of strong pasteboard, covered with 
satin or other suitable material. If anything of an artist, paint a graceful 
spray of flowers on the front, for instance, if made of pale blue, a bunch of 
roses in creamy wliite and a fern or two, is lovely. Make it— the paste- 
board — a foot square, the back and front, line with white satin paper and 
lace the sides with cord or narrow ribbon to match the cover. Hang with 
a cord and tassel. This is very useful for holding small articles. One can 
be made eufiSciently large for papers— out of any material preferred, and 
is very handy to hang by the desk. Thin, soft pine ebonized would do well 
and might be finished in gilt. 



36 



HOME DEGO RATION. 



HaIr-ReceIver._A anow-shoe of suitable size forms the foundation or 
back of this ornamental liair-receiver. The pocket is of crimson silk, 
tnmed in deeply at the top and shirred several times across to form a 

frilled heading of pretty depth. The ful- 
ness is collected in gathers at the, point, 
and the edges are sewed to the founda- 
tion with invisible stitches. Ribbon tlie 
shade of ihe silk is tied high up on the 
snow-shoe as illustrated. The silk may 
be of any desired shade, or satin, Surah 
or any preferred material may be used 
instead. 

Bed Spread — Twelve large silk hand- 
kerchiefs with brocaded designs, were 
made into a very elegant bed spread. 
The handkerchiefs were of diflferent colors, 
and the designs were outlined in a con- 
trasting color in silk or gold or bronze 
thread. They were basted on satin sheet- 
ing just as one does crazy work, and were 
joined together by elaborately embroid- 
ered silk bands, and each seam covered 
with different stitches in silk floss. 

This spread was composed of the fol- 
lowing colors : Pale blue, pale pink, cream, 
mouse, old-gold, crimson, red, terra-cotta, 
violet, buff, white, and golden brown. It 
was bordered with old-gold plush, and 
on the edge a green and gold silk cord. 
This spread was exceedingly handsome 
and not expensive. For tliose who cannot 
afford such an elaborate spread, here is 
a very dainty and economical one. Cut 
a piece ol double width cheese cloth large 
enough to reach from head to foot of the 
bed. 

Put over this a layer of white batting. 
Cover this with cheese cloth same as the 
under side and catch through at intervals 
with wliite zephyr, or cream, though one 
can use any color to suit the fancy. Don't 
draw the threads tight ; put several 
through the same place, and leave ends a 
quarter of an inch long, cut evenly and 

press down slightly. You can use a yellow center, making the loop appear 

like daisies. 

This makes a soft, dainty spread, and can be done up when soiled and 

the zephyrs renewed. Have for the border some inexpensive lace or 

woolen fringe, either would look well. 

Painted Tambourine—The pretty wall decoration in our illustration 
is an ordinary tambourine, painted with a pleasing group of crimson flow- 
ers, iiud suspended by golden-olive satin ribbons to the wall ; it is also 




HATK RECEIVEK. 



HOME DECORATION'. 



37 



trimmed, as seen, with satin ribbons, and forma a gay and picturesque orb 
of decorative color on the wall. A pretty one lately finished shows a de- 
sign of dark-red poinaetta leaves, which form a very suitable decoration 
for this purpose. Many workers paint fisures on these tambourines but it 
is not advisable to use these as subjects, unless one is well versed in figure- 
painting. The figure of an 
oriental or a southern dancing 
girl or a female musician are 
either of them suitable sub- 
jects ; a danciug figure, wheth- 
er man or woman, provided 
their costume is picturesque, 
is always a pleasing subject; 
but it must be well painted, 
or it will be simply a grotesque. 
Some workers paint cats' or 
dogs' heads on tambourines, 
but this is not pleasant, neither 
is it picturesque treatmenf. 
Heads of children or female 
heads are also out of place, 
the prettiest subjects, to my 
mind, being birds and flowers. 
An owl flitting past the moon, 
or a flight of swallows or of 
butterflies, can be uaed deco- 
ratively. A spray of blossoms 
and butterflies, or one or two 
birds in flight, are pretty sub- 
jects. The ribbons used in hanging painted tam- 
bourines and in ornamenting them should be of a 
color to harmonize with the painted decoration and 
the wall. One color or two, or even three, may be 
used at a time, as sage-green and old-pink ; old- 
piuk, olive, and ecru ; peacock-blue and orange, or 
dull-blue and olive ; or shades of one color may be 
used very effectively when they are warm, such as 
shides of maroon, old-pink, or pistache-green. — 
Ladies' World. 

Ribbon Handkerchief Case. — This case is 
simple and easily made, and is also quite taking 
when made up. It consists of alternate pieces of 
shrimp pink and pale green ribbon, one-eighth of a 
yard in width, sewed upon the edge. These pieces 
are one-quarter of a yard in length, this giving the painted tamboubine. 
height of the case, "The bottom is a square of thick 

cardboard, covered with plush to match the ribbon. Some satchet powder 
is scattered underneath the inside lining. It is drawn up at the top with 
No. 1 ribbon, or a silk cord may be used. A case made similarly is very 
pretty for a small work-bag. Inside pockets should be put in, us they are 
indispensable in such an article. These cases are exceedingly handsome 
when completed. Sometimes fancy stitching is run up at each corner, and 




38 



HOME bEVOIiATIOX. 



the plush could bo allowed to come up iuto the sidea iu points, and then 
stitched handsomely. Iu fact, the make-up can be vai-itd to suit the taste 
of the individual. 

Calendar Panel — This beautiful panel is cut out of thick cardboard 
and smoothly covered with corded silk. Sprays of blooms and their foliage 
ar« painted on it in oils or water colors, and just above the sprays a small 

calendar is invisibly fast- 
ened. Near the upper cor- 
ners bunches of loops and 
ends of ribbon are tacked, 
and from them extend two 
ribbons that are used to 
suspend the panel. The 
colors of the ribbon and silk 
may be chosen to please the 
fancy, and the two may be 
alike or different, as pre- 
ferred. The sprays may be 
embroidered, psiinted or 
applied, with good efifect. 
Sometimes plusli, velvet or 
satin will be used to cover 
the panel. 

Key Basket — The little 
bottles of Italian wines, 
which are cased in a sort of 
reed or wicker basket, may 
be utilized in this way : Re- 
move the bottle, then cut 
the case off below the neck, 
or deep enough to allow the 
basket to be good and open. 
On the outside paint some 
showy flowers. If not con- 
venient to do this, then use 
artificial ones and a few 
bright ribbons. Suspend 
■with three cords, and the 
housewife has a handy bas- 
ket for her keys. This will 
also make a pretty orna- 
ment for Easter. Fill with white cotton, and nestle a few eggs on top. 

A Pretty Holder. — Upon a squai'e of canvas of any size preferred, 
work in cross-stitch, beginning in upper left hand corner, the words 
"Molly Put the," on the first Ime ; on the second, or little to the right of 
the word " Molly," work a small tea-kettle, and in capital letters under 
" put the " of the first line, the word " on ;" on the third line, the words, 
"we'll all take;" then on the next line, directly under the words "all 
take," work a capital " T." Bind the edges with braid, first lining the back 
with a layer of cotton and one of flannel, the color of the braid ; place a 
loop of braid in the upper left hand corner, and it is complete. It ii both 
uoique and handy. 




CALENDAR PANEL. 



UOMi: DECORAflOK. 



^ 



Catchall. —Get a small inuatard or oyster barrel, stain it witU oak or 
walnut stain, paint some rather large and effective flowers on it (yellow 
dahlias), line it with sateen, either the color of the wood or some harmo- 
nizing tint, finished off with a little gimp or fringe at the top ; tie on the 
lid which of course must match, with ribbon (by means of holes made with 
a red-hot poker or knitting-needle, in both lid and barrel), and you have a 
splendid receptacle for work, waste paper or anything that is wanted to be 
out of sight, as well as an ornament. 

Stand Cover—A very pretty Stand Cover is made of dark brown Java 
canvas. Two yards are needed if the material is half a yard iu width, for 
the strips should be four times as long as it is wide. Cat iu two in the 
middle, and join the selvage to make a square piece ; then pull out the 
threads to make a fringe two inches deep all around the edu'e. Work cross- 
stitch, or any simple design, an inch above the fringe, choosing lemon, 
rose color or light blue wool, whichever will best correspond with the 
furnishings of the room. 

Card Receiver.— A piece of stiff ribbon and two sections of celluloid 
or ivorine form this unique card-receiver. Tbe larger piece is fastened 




CARD RECEIVEK. 

with narrow ribbon across the center of the ribbon, and on it the word 
"cards" is painted; the ribbon is arranged in a loop and end on either 
side and is clasped between the loops with the smaller section of celluloid, 
which is fastened with narrow ribbon. The ends are fringed and decorated 
with a fl >wer, which may be plain or embroiderpd. These card-cases are 
inexpensive, yet vei-y dainty and ornamental. The ribbons may be of any 
color desired, and may be grosgrain, watered or some fancy variety. 

Pretty Mats— A sheet of white v/adding and a skein of Saxony will 
make three mats ten inclies in diameter. 

Cut out a circle of wadding, any size you wish, and strips two inches 
wide, long enough to go round the circle three times. Take the Saxony — 
pink or light green makes beautiful ones — and crochet round the mats and 
both sides of the strip, with chain of twelve stitches, caught about an inch 
apart. Then plait in double box-plaits, and sew through the center, hav- 
ing the edges of the plaiting and mat even. T:ick the edges of each box- 
plait together, making it stand up full. They are pretty, easy made and 
serviceable, as the dust slides off the shiirj surface. 



40 



HOME DECORATION. 



Card Case. -Take a piece of myrtle-green satiu nine inches long and 
four and a half inches wide, :uid a piece of bright gold surah silk of the 
same dimeusious. Between these pieces put a thiu layer of perfumed cot- 
ton aud sow iho pieces together neatly. Fold up to witliin a third of the 
top, the surah ou the inside, and fasten the sides together with blind 
stitches, thus forming a pocket. Turn down the top third so that it over- 
laps ihe pocket, and press it down so that it will lie quite flat. Embroider 
or paint on this top third, if liked, a spray of golden rod, or the monogram 
of the owner in gold. This is very easily made, and one of the few things 
that may serve as a gift to a gentleman. Its useful as well as its orna- 
mental qualities recommend it. 

Decorative Blotter—A very original design in Christmas greetings is 
here illustrated. Four or five oblong pieces of blotting paper are fastened 




DECORATIVE BLOTTER. 

together by a large ribbon bow, which is run through openings made in the 
upper corner for the purpose. The cover may bo made of ivorine, cellu- 
loid or satin, and any design may be painted or embroidered upon it. 

A Pretty Letter Basket Common straw hats can be so arranged as 

to make very pretty wall-pockets or standing-basket. For a wall-pocket 
the hat is thoroughly gilded on the outside, and also on the under part of 
the rim, with gold paint, and a full lining of pink is neatly fitted in the 
crown. It is well, before Rildinij, to sew a wire such as is used for bonnets, 
ar .niul the under part of the rim, thus rendering it easier to bend in the 
desired shape. The front of the rim is then bent flat to the crown, sewed 
securely, !ind a bunch of nink roses, buds and foliag" fastened on with a 
bow of pink satin vibb(m about two inches wide. The opposite side or 
back of the rii\i is turned up so that the hat can hang flatly against the wall. 
Fasten at each side on the back of the rim a long ribbon loop, with a bow 
at the top. 



HOME DECORATIOlf. 



41 



Fan Wall-Pocket. — A large Japanese fan and a similar fan of much 
smaller size are joined together by ribbons to form this ornamental wall- 
pocket. The handle is removed from the larger fan, which is firmly 
secured at the bottom to the smaller one. Two pairs of ribbon ties are 
sewed at suitable intervals to the fans at one side and tied in pretty bows 
so as to hold the fans 
in place ; and a nar- 
rower ribbon is run 
through the fans at 
the opposite side low 
down and loosely tied. 
A cord edges the fans 
all round. A bunch of 
bright fruits and their 
foliage is fastened just 
above the handle. 
Sometimes the fans 
will be covered with 
Watteau, striped or 
figured silks, thougli 
tliey are sufficiently 
decorative in them- 
selves. 

Spl a slier. — The 

neatest and really most 
serviceable splashers 
are those made of 
white or cream linen, 
witli an appropriate 
design outlined with 
red or blue markings 
cotton, and trimmed 
with torchon lace. 
These, when soiled, 
are quite easily laun- 
dered and look nice at 
all times. Another 

easily made splasher is of white oil-cloth, with a blue sky and water lilies, 
and a few rushes painted on it, tliis can be varnished with clear varnish 
and when soiled wiped off with a wet cloth, then with a cloth with a little 
polish— linseed oil and turpentine — and will keep fresh and bright for a 
long while. 

Cretonne Table Cover. — A pretty and inexpensive cover can be made 
as ioUows : 

Take nine squares of cretonne, each square measuring twelve inches. 
Sew these together in the form of a large square, after which cover the 
seams with narrow black velvet ribbon, on which is worked a catch stitch 
in yellow silk. Line with canton flannel in gray, olive, scarlet, or brownish 
yellow. The edges may be finished with balls of contrasting colors, with 
fringe, with white guipure lace, or witli a pinking of felt or flannel set be- 
tween the outer part and lining. 

In making this cover care should be taken in selection of cretonne. 




FAN WALL-POCKET. 



42 



HOME DECORATION. 



Flower patterns on palo backgrounds— j)articularly tints of green, pink, 
blue and yellow, show to far better advantage than highly colored pat- 
terns on black or dark grounds. Two prettily contrasting cretonnes should 
be used, one forming the center and corner, and the other the intermediate 
squares. Braid may be substituted for the velvet ribbon if desired. 

Chair Scarf._This pretty scarf may be of soft printed silk or of silk 
with figures outlined with vari-colored silks or tinsel. The ends are deeply 

fringed, and the fringe is net- 
ted at the top. Sewing-silk 
fringe may be sewed to the 
ends if the fringing and net- 
ting be considered too trou- 
blesome. The scarf is caught 
up at one side of the center 
and arranged on the chair as 
illustrated. 



A Pretty Corner Table. 

— Many ingenious bouse- 
wifes arrange for themselves 
a corner table by having a 
piece of wood fitted in with 
little silk or cretonne cur- 
tains, attached to the edge, 
run on to a cord. Tliese 
draw partially, or quite close, 
and hide all sorts of odds 
and ends beneath the table. 
Above the table is a dado of 
drawn art muslin, of some 
goo'l-looking material, with a 
shelf above. For a very tri- 
fling sum a corner of a room 
can be made to look cozy 
and artistic. This device can 
be carried out in a small 
window, and a pretty toilet table thus ar- 




OHAIll SCARF. 



bed-room in the corner near 
ranged. 



Lamp Mat. — You can make a beautiful lamp matby taking shaded green 
zephyr, that which runs from darkest green to white is prettiest. Crochet 
for the middle a round mat in any stitch you choose, of the lightest green. 
For the fringe knit in garter stitch two strips of the next two shades. Steam 
these over the teakettle until quite damp, lay on the ironing sheet, lap a 
cloth over them and iron with a moderately hot iron till perfectly dry. 
Kavel them out carefully and fasten on your mat, the darker shade under- 
neath the lighter. It looks like moss and is very pretty. 

Tissue Paper Mats. — Take two sheets of tissue paper of contrasting 
color, cut each sheet across where it is folded, cut each of these pieces in 
two, making eight pieces in all. Fold each piece across the longest way four 
times, making it eight double, and an inch or more in width, according to 
the size of the paper. Place four of these, alternating the colors, and weave 



HOME DECORATION. 



43 



the other four across them, the woveu part to be in the center of the 
atripa. Fasten the braid or woven part with a needle and thread, then cut 
the ends into fiue sti-ips. The finer the strips the prettier the fringe. Lay 
the mat on the table, take a damp cloth (merely damp) over your hand, 
and rub the fringe round and round, and then rub it between your hands. 
This makes it crinkle. Paste a stiff paper under the mat. Dust may 
be removed by shaking them without damaging the mats. 

Whisk-Broom Holder. — This handsome holder is made of cardboard 
that is shaped to form a point at the center of the front and back and cov- 
ered with chamois left long enough to be cut in 
a fringe of graceful depth. Before the fringe 
is cut the chamois is tinted in a baud a little 
above the edge and along the upper and lower 
edges of the foundation, the upper bands being 
made fancy by ornamental markings of another 
color. A pretty floral design is painted on, and 
ribbons fastened to the top are used to suspend 
the holder and are tied together in a pretty 
bow. The whisk-broom here represented has 
an oxidized silver handle that is beautifully 
carved. The ribbons may be of any preferred 
color, width and variety. 

Portieres.— A portiere of figured stuff does 
not really need ornamentation ; it may have a 
frieze of plain plush, velvet or flax-velours, 
or a dado if preferred, but the majoiity look 
well without. Plain material portieres may, 
however, liave various ornamental treatments, 
such aa fi'ieze and dado of plain or embroid- 
ered or figured materials. They may also be 
decorated beautifully by applied designs in 
plush, satin or velvet, or combinations, or be 
embroidered with conventional flowers at inter- 
vals, or with groups of interlaced rings, squares 
or disks, or embroidery, or applique work, or 
both, in either case having a band of plush 
across the top or bottom. 

Cords and tassels, long and short, sus- 
pended from the frieze band, also fringes used 
in the same manner, make a very ornamental 
finish. Some materials ravel with handsome 
ravelings, such, for example, as chenille Tusco- 
man, cotton canvas, and, I believe, Bolton 
sheeting. When the portiere is made of any of these, a pleasing finish is 
to set on a frieze of the same material, showing a fringe of raveling sixteen 
or eighteen inches deep. Some workers ravel enough to make a heading 
with two tyings foroiing a diamond net-work or open-work which is very 
eflfective. 

In selecting portieres, the main idea, Independent of fabric, is to get 
the coloring that will harmonize with the interiors from which it will be 
seen. It may be added that golden brown, deep old gold, olive green, deep 




WHISK-BEOOM HOLDER. 



44 



HOME DECORATION. 



old red, maroon, and peacock blue, are among the beet colors to use ; gray- 
bliio also is pleasing, aa well as terra cotta and golden olive. Many cross- 
stripe stuffs are also admirable, as are oriental patterned goods. 

Pliotograpli Case—Take a strip of bed-ticking three-fourths of a yard 
long and 6 in. wide, cut one end pointed. Feather stitch all the wide white 
stripes with silk in different colors. Seam tinsel cord on all the wide blue 
stripes. Line with satin, fold over the straight end so as to form a pocket 
nearly as deep as the length of a cabinet photograph ; leave one side open 
at the top nearly two inches, turn it back, sew a bangle on to the point, also 
a row across the bottom of the pocket, and one on each of tlie three points 
of the pointed end. Pull this point through a curtain ring far enough to 
give a neat appearance, fasten in place, and hang it in the parlor from a 
shelf or any other place that you may fancy. 

Sachet. — A sadiet of unique design is here represented. One of the 
miniature sacks is of pale-blue satin, and the other of an olive-green shade. 




The filling is cotton well sprinkled with the favorite sachet "powder. A 
spray of wild roses is painted upon the blue sack, and a bunch of wild 
flowers above a Grecian border on the olive-green. Embroidery may deco- 
rate such a sichet and ribbons be arranged in an ornamental manner. 
Combinaiions of violet and yellow, garnet and blue, and bronze and rose, 
are effective in such accessories of the dressing-case. 

Japanese Tidy — A pretty Japanese tidy may be made as follows : 
The four squares may be made of pink cotton and creamy white linen, 
the leaves and berries being cut out in brown cotton, and the conventional 
flower in pale gold. 

The tidy might be bordered with a band of dark blue, and have an 
edging of creamv lace the same tint as the squares. Or it might be made 
in patches of olive-green and gold sateen, in which case the bird, in gray 
or brown, would be hemmed on a p;old ground, which would also serve to 
throw up the white flower with its yellow middle, while the leafy pattern, 
in a darker gold color, would be effective on the duller tints of the olive- 



HOME DECORATION. 



45 



green. In this case, the border would be ol gold-colored eateen, with rough 
lace at the edges dyed a golden color to match. 

Thermometer. The unique frame adopted for this thermometer is an 

ear of corn that was carefully dried after it became ripe. Enough of the 

corn is removed from the cob to 

permit the thermometer to fit 

snugly in place. A braided bright 

gold silk cord is fastened to the 

top to form a loop for suspending 

the article, and a large bnw of wide 

bright gold ribbon with a picot edge 

conceals the fastening of the loop 

and produces an elaborate effect. 

Sometimes the ear is varnished or 

gilded, but oftenest it is left in its 

natural state. 



Twine Holder. — With pale- 
blue knitting silk crochet a bag 
large enough to hold easily a ball 
of pink druggists' twine. Work the 
bag in treble crochet, and draw in 
at the top with a pink satin ribbon, 
using a loop of the same with which 
to suspend it. Tie to one of the 
ribbon loops a small pair of scissors 
for use in cutting the twine when 
wanted. This will be found to be 
a very pretty and iiseful knick- 
knack in almost any room, but 
mostly in the chamber or sitting- 
room. 

Curtains. — Very pretty curtains 
and portieres are made of cotton 
Bolton sheeting embroidered with 
linen ; or of wool Bolton sheeting 
worked with rope silk, if something 
quite expensive is desired. If the 
wool material is used, it must be 
lined. They are worked in an all- 
over pattern, and great care must 
be used to have them look neat ou 
the under side. The skeleton stitch 
is best adapted to this purpose, as 
it looks about the same on both 
sides. Large conventional designs, 
either scattered or in groups, are 

good for the purpose, and may be worked in the same colors as the 
background, and shaded up to the lightest tint. A rather dark shade of 
ecru, or the new shade called chamois, would look very pretty embroidered 
in maize brown of five or six shades. A dark mahogany with a full shading 
of the same color, or a combination of mahogany and old blue is well liked. 




THEEMOMETEK. 



46 HOME DECORATION. 

A light shade of sage green worked with a new shading of rope silk called 
" grape " is much admired. Curtains are very pretty with a border worked 
to suit the designs grouped over it. — Mme. Weitzel. 

Sachet Bags._Take two squares ol tissue paper, one pink and the 
other blue, about twelve inches square. Take them by the centers and pull 
through the hand until they are all in little creases, then place the pink in- 
side the blue and sprinkle a piece of batting with the powder, put down in 
the bottom and tie with a piece of stout thread, leaving the crinkled ends 
of paper sticking up. Make a cluster of paper roses, and fasten on one side 
with two or three green leaves. 

Fan Baskets. — A pretty thing in baskets is a dainty affair in yellow and 
white. Imagine four large wicker fans painted white and gold, and fas- 
tened together so that they stand on the handles. Broad yellow and white 
satin ribbon tie these fans at the sides, and there is space between them 
for a bag, or deep pocket of white China silk figured with yellow. An in- 
genious woman could make a similar basket out of large Japanese fans. 

A Pi-etty Cliair Scai-f. — Take a yard and a half of cream-colored 
bunting, or a piece the desired width and length, make a hem an inch 
and a half wide. On one end embroider pinks in shaded red crewels, with 
their leaves and stems in green. Finish the ends with tassels of olive and 
green crewels. 

Fancy Work Notes. — Some dainty bags are made oi three lengths of 
picot-edged moire ribbon ; a very pretty one shows green-gold, old-rose 
and cream-white ribbons sewed together, lined with cream-white silk, and 
furnished with a narrow gold-green ribbon. 

A beautiful movable frieze for a dining-room is made of fine-weave mat- 
ting set between two mouldings of brown wood, the wooden mouldings also 
forming a wide lattice work of fourteen-inch squares. A bittersweet vine 
is painted to look as if twisting in and out with its rich clusters ol orange 
and scarlet berries. A frieze design, being seen at a height, must neces- 
sarily be very boldly painted. 

New and delicate toilet sets are made of all-over figured lace, with lace 
edging to match, three inches in width, fulled on around the edge, and 
one inch-wide ribbon run round the whole, just above where the lace is 
whipped on to cover the joining of lace. In the lower right-hand corner is a 
double bow of ribbon. Small square mats and cushion cover are all made 
to match. Fish-net scrim sets are also fashionable. 

A table-spread can be very fancifully and prettily made as follows: 
Take a length of burnt-sienna colored India silk and powder over its sur- 
face a swarm of butterflies, working them in shades of yellow and of dull 
blue. Let the butterflies spread from the center to one comer of the 
spread. Finish the edge with tassels of silks, letting the various tassels 
show the shades of yellow and blue in the butterflies. Line the spread 
with dull-blue pongee. 

A very pretty work-bag is made of peacock-blue velvet ornamented by 
two cross-stitch stripes. The velvet is cut nine inches wide and twenty- 
four inches long. Two stripes of canvas six inches lorg are placed over 
the velvet ; these are worked in filoselle over the canvas in some pleasing, 
solid cross-stitch design in several shades of deep yellow. When the pat- 
tern is finislied the threads are drawn away and the edges are finished with 
a silk trimming. The velvet is next lined with satin ; it is then f I'led in 



HOME DECORATION. 47 

and sewed up at the sides. The top edge is turned down to form a frill, 
and has a slide of ribbon run in. The ends are finished with tassels. 

A Beautiful Tidy— Get half a yard of China silk any shade desired, 
hem-stitch one end ; have hem about one inch deep ; trim other end with 
the new wheel trimming. It taltes not quite two spools of Heiuenway's 
Crochet Silk, shade of silk used. To make one wheel, take a steel crochet 
hook and common-sized lead pencil. Wind the crochet silk over the pen- 
cil 24 times, slip off the pencil and fasten with a slip stitch. Fill with 36 
t c, which is, silk over hook once, insert, draw silk through two stitches 
twice. 

Last round.—* chain 6, fasten in 3rd t o with a short stitch, repeat from 
* all round. Sew three wheels together, then two under those, and one 
under those. This makes a point ; continue points till enough are made, 
then crochet on a heading. Sew the points on by heading to end of scarf. 

A Table Cover. — Make tlie body of olive green felt, any size desired, 
having all four of the edges simply pinked. Take four squares of peacock 
blue plush, on each of wliich embroider a spray of flowers. Blind stitch 
these pieces on the four corners of the felt, and your covei' is complete. 
An eight-inch square of plush to a cover measuring one yard is about the 
right proportion. 

niantel Lambrequins. — Almost every one understands what ticking 
embroidery is, but few have seen it used for a mantel lambrequin. It is 
very effective, however, and may be done with a mingling of split zephyr 
and silk, that will make it comparatively inexpensive. A narrow black vel- 
vet ribbon, to cover the blue stripes, is a great improvement in this work ; 
and feather-stitch, herring-bone, point-russe and chain-stitch may all be 
used. When carefully done it has a very Oriental effect; and it can be 
used as a border to almost any thick material. This mantel cover should 
be finished with a fringe, of which the foundation may be a thin black silk 
fringe, with strands of bright-colored silk crocheted in on the front. This 
makes a very handsome edge. 

For those who can paint, many beautiful things are possible ; and, 
among them, mantel lambrequins quite out of the common order. Some- 
thing very pretty may be made of enamel cloth, with the lambrequin cut 
straight and painted with designs similar to those found on tiles. The 
lambrequin can be fastened on with gilt-headed nails, and a little gilding 
used in the borders. A connected story is always desirable when a num- 
ber of designs are used ; but something of a very simple character only 
should be attempted by the amateur. A study of Mintou's and other tiles 
will be found very useful ; but the actual imitation of tiles is to be avoided 
rather than aimed at, since real tiles would be out of place on a lambre- 
quin. 

The enameled cloth is used with very good effect, particularly in a 
dining or sitting-room, with no other embellishment than brass-headed 
nails where it is joined, and worsted fringe on the edge of the lambrequin. 
In using brass-headed nails avoid the common fiiiling: of placing them too 
far apart, as this gives the article a very scant look. They should be sepa- 
rated only the breadth of the nail head. 

Another pretty cover may be made of very dark garnet or olive-green 
canton flannel, with a border of Japanese crepe pictures framed in narrow 
black velvet. This bordering should be lined with silesia, or undressed 



48 HOME DECORATION. 

cambric ; and the fringe may be made of worsted to match the canton flan- 
nel, mingled with bright silks. 

Velvet and velveteen make very rich mantel covers, and are much more 
expensive than the two other materials. But where something really hand- 
some is wanted for a parlor mantel, a very satisfictory result may be 
accomplished by covering ihe shelf with either fabric, attaching a lambre- 
quin of white silk embroidered in outline worked after tile patterns, and 
paneled with old-gold-colored velvet to carry out the picture idea. Very 
little of the white ground would be visible, and that little would only en- 
hance the beauty of the coloring. A fringe of gold-colored silk would com- 
plete a very elegant lambrequin. Where blue is the prevailing color of 
the furniture, dark blue might be used for the shelf-color, and vivid blue 
forget-me-nots worked on the white silk and threads of gold. 

Dififertnt colored velvet ribbons joined with feather-stitch, and em- 
broidered with little dots or other devices in the center and edged with 
handsome fringe, will make a lambrequin of great richness, particularly 
suited to a room where the other furnisliings are in dark, warm colors. 

"Waste-Paper Baslcet._A waste-paper basket in the library is a neces- 
sity, and may be a pleasant object to contemplate as well. Choose a well 
made basket, and one that stands squarely on the bottom. One way to 
ornament the basket is to trim it with three bands of i-ibbon, of diflferent 
colors ; on the upper band embroider a vine of something green with ox- 
eyed daisies to brighten it. Where the ends join, cover them with a large 
and handsome bow. If inclined to take so much trouble, line the basket, 
and finish the upper edge with a puff of satia or of heavy silk. A hand- 
some basket may be lined wi'h cashmere with a ruchiug around the top, 
and hanging over the edge a sort of lambrequin made of strips of red and 
white cashmere, rounded at the bottom and pinked on the edge, and com- 
pleted by having a bouquet of flo\yers in applique or iu Kensington em- 
broidery. A tassel on the bottom of each piece is a good addition ; the 
pieces keep their shape better with a tassel. Another pi-etty way is to put 
a band of canvas, either drab, blue or scarlet, around the basket ; below 
this put a band of black velvet ; brighten both by embroidery ; one design 
to work on the velvet is a procession of Kate Greenaway children. A 
handsome ribbon bow adds to the good effect. 

A Pretty Screen. — For a simple folding screen, suitable for a chamber 
or dining-room, you will use seven yards of firm, unbleached cotton cloth, 
three and one-half yards each of olive silesia and of upholstery cretonne, 
three small brass hinges and several dozen brass-headed tacks, and two 
frames, each five feet high and two and one-quarter feet broad. These 
frames are made of four strips of pine wood one inch thick and two and 
one-half inches wide, nicely jointed at the corners so as to be quite flat. It 
is preferable to have the cretonne of bright but harmonious colors, and of 
large£gure8. The landscape patterns are pretty for this. Cover the frames 
on both sides with the cotton cloth, fastening it with very small common 
tacks, and after that stretch tightly across one side of each a piece of the 
cretonne, an inch larger all round than the frame. On the other side 
stretch the silesia, witli the edges turned in and overlapping the cretonne, 
and fasten these in the middle of the inch-wide edge with a row of the 
brass-headt^d tacks on what will be the top and outer side when the two 
panels are joined together with the hinges. The other two ends must be 
eewed. 



HOME DECORATION. i9 

A Pretty Wall-Pocket. — Take pasteboard and cut twenty-six round 
pieces two and one-half inches in diameter, and exactly in the center of 
each make a perforation about oue-fourtli of an inch in diameter ; thread a 
darning needle with shaded Germantowu yarn (from piuk to brown is very 
pretty), and proceed to wrap the pieces of pasteboard. Insert the needle 
through the perforation and fasten the yarn at the edge of the pasteboard 
with a button-nole stitch ; continue so until it is entirely covered. After 
you have thera all covered take sixteen of tliem and join iu form of a dia- 
mond ; then take the remaining ten and join in a half diamond ; take this 
and place on the whole diamond, poiut to point, and sew the edges together ; 
that forms a pocket. It is now completed. Hang in a corner, and you will 
be pleased with it. 

Summer Curtains. — A viry stylish and graceful design for sitting-room 
or bedroom curtains recently origmated in the New York Art Rooms, and 
full directions are given here for making a pair. The curtains are inex- 
pensive, the full cost for two deep windows being about $3.50. The mate- 
rials required are two yards of cretonne, ten or twelve yards of cheese clotli 
andsiiflacient lace for finishing the front edges of the curtain and making an 
insertion across the lop of each. Be careful iu purchasing the cheese 
cloth to get a piece which is evenly woven, and without black threads. 
Scrim may be used instead of cheese cloth, if preferred, but it is more ex- 
pensive. In buying the cretonne get two patterns which harmonize, buy- 
ing one yard of each. Cut each yard in four pieces, lengthwise. Each 
curtain has two pieces at the top, with an insertion of lace in between. One 
curtain only will be descri'.ied. Of each pattei'u of cretonne take one 
piece, stitch the lace inseniou between them, turn down the edge, about 
an iucli, of the one intended for the top of ihe curtain, and stitch the cheese 
cloth on the other piece with a pudding-bag seam. Mike a hem twelve 
inches deep on the bottom of the curtain. The luce should be four inches 
wide. Lay the lace flat on the ri','ht side of the curtain, an inch from the 
edge, with the straiglit edge of the lace toward the selvedije, and the point- 
ed ed:<e turning backward. Stitch it on, fold down the hem on the wrong 
side, and catch it fast with long stitches. Cut a V-shaped piece out of the 
lace at the lower corner of the curtain, seam the lace togeiber, and sew it 
across the bottom of the curtain. 

Scrim Toilet Set. — Verv pretty toilet sets are made of scrim, which 
comes with alternate stripes of drawn-work and the plain raaterial. On the 
plain sti-ipe garlands of dnieies are arranged, the foliage and stems worked 
with crewels, using the different shades of green for the i)urp';se. The 
daisies are made of verj' thin, fine Swiss muslin, cut in strips about an inch 
wide. The design should first be stamped, or lightly traced on the plain 
stripe ; the flowers are then executed in the following manner : Cut a strip 
an inch wide, and rather longer than the petal, then gitlier one end of the 
muslin, and with a steel or bone pi rcer make a slight hole in the point of 
the petal, thiough the scrim, press the gathered end of the muslin through 
this, and fasten securely by sewing to the wrong side. Proceed in the same 
manner for the end of the petal next the stamens, leaving in the middle of 
the flower a circular space in which to work the stamens, which is done 
with yellow crewel. Trim the edge of the bureau cover with antique lace. 
Satin ril)bon, about three inches wide, anil of whatever color will harmo- 
nize with the room for which it is intended, is tied iu pretty frill bi)ws with 



50 HOME DECORATION. 

ends, and one sewed in each comer of the cover. The pincushion is square, 
covered with satin, and the scrim cover, which is cut the size of the cush- 
ion, should have a design on the plain stripe executed iu the same manner 
as that on the bureau cover. Trim the edge with the lace, and place bows 
of satin ribbon at each corner. The mats for the perfume bottles are either 
round or square pieces of plain scrim, trimmed with a fi-ill ruflSe of lace. 
Instead ot an ordinary pincushion it is very convenient to cover and line 
with satm, a wooden, or a very stiff pasteboard box. Make a stufifed cush- 
ion on the top of the lid, and sew three straps of ribbon across the back 
from the lid to the box, thus holding them together as with hinges. The 
scrim cover is made iu the same manner as described for ihe pincushion, 
and trimmed with bows. For the sides of the box a full ruffle is made of 
plain scrim, hemmed on the iower edf^e and trimmed with lace. The 
upper edge mei'ely turned in and gathered, th.n sewed round the edge of 
the box. No heading is necessary, aa the lace which edges the cover falls 
over, and is finish enough. These sets are very easily made, and are light 
and dainty-looking for summer, besides having the advantage of washing 
well, for, even though the daisico may be flattened, they can be made to 
look as fresh as new by running the round, glass head of a pin between the 
muslin petal and the scrim, thus giving the petal ils former raised appear- 
ance. 



ETIQUETTE. 



Etiquette may be defined as the minor morality of life. Its laws, like 
all other social laws, are the accumulated results of the wisdom and expe- 
rience of many generations. They form a code with which every educated 
person is bound to be acquainted ; and iLe object of this little work is to 
place that code before the.eader in as succinct, us agreeable, and as ex- 
planatory a light as the subject admits of. We hope and believe that it 
will be found in all respects a trusty and pleasant guide. 

The laws of Etiquette must not be supposed to apply only to intercourse 
with the world. In no place do they bef.p'such sweet and gratifying results 
as ia the home circle. Stripped of their mere formality, tempered with 
love, and fostered by all kindly impulses, they there improve the character 
as well as the manners, and bear their choicest fruits. Genuine politeness 
is not like a ball-dress, only to be worn when circumstances of ceremony 
demand it. It is a garment which should never be laid aside, and which 
ought never to be felt as an incumbrance. It should be natural and un- 
conscious as the very play of the lungs, or the beating of the heart. We 
feel that we cannot impress tliis truth too strongly upon those to whom 
this little manual is especially addressed. Much of their own happiness 
in life, and much of the happiness of those whose lives they share, depends 
upon their observance of its precepts in the domestic circle. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTIONS. 

To introduce persons who are mutually unknown is to undertake a seri- 
ous responsibility, and to certify to each the respectability of the other 
Never undertake this responsibility without in the first place asking your- 
self whether the persons are likely to be agreeable to each other ; nor, in 
the second place, without ascertaining whether it will be acceptable to 
both parties to become acquainted. 

Always introduce the gentleman to the lady — never the lady to the gen- 
tleman. The chivalry of etiquette assumes that the lady is invariably the 
superior in right of her sex, and that the gentleman is honored in the intro- 
duction. This rule is to be observed even when the social rank of the 
gentleman is higher than that of the lady. 

Where the sexes are the same, always present the inferior to the superior. 

Never present a gentleman to a lady witbout first asking her permission 
to do so. 

When you are introduced to a gentleman, never offer your hand. When 
introduced, persons limit their recognition of each other to a bow. Ladies 
never shake hands with gentlemen unless under circumstances of great 
intimacy. 

Never introduce morning visitors who happen to encounter each other 
jn your parlor unless they are persons whom jrou have already obtained 



63 ETIQUETTE. 

permission to make known to each other. Visitors thus casually meeting 
in the house of a frieud should converse with ease and freedom, as if they 
were acquamted. That they are both friends of the hostess is sufficient 
guarantee of their respectability. To bo silent and stiff on such an occa- 
8ion would show much iguorance and ill-breeding. 

Persons who have met at the house of a mutual friend without being 
introduced, should not bow if they afterward meet elsewhere. A bow im- 
plies acquaintance, and persons who have not been inti'oduced are not 
acquainted. 

If you are walking with one friend, and presently meet with or are 
joined by a third, do not commit the too frequent error ol introducing them 
to each other. You have even less right to do so than if they encountered 
each other at your house during a morning call. 

There are some exceptions to the etiquette of introductions. At a ball, 
or evening party where there is dancing, the mistress of the house may 
introduce any gentleman to any lady without first asking the lady's per- 
mission. But she should first ascertain whether the lady is willing to 
dance ; and this out of consideration for the gentleman, who may other- 
wise be refused. No man likes to be refused the hand of a lady, though it 
be only for a quadrille. 

A sister may present her brother, or a mother her son, without any kind 
of preliminary ; but only when there is no inferiority on the part of her own 
family to that of the acquaintance. 

Friends may introduce friends at the house of a mutual acquaintance ; 
but, as a rule, it is better to be introduced by the mistress of the house. 
Such an introduction carries more authority with it. 

Introductions at evening parties are now almost wholly dispensed with. 
People who meet at a friend's house are ostensibly upon an equality, and 
pay a bad compliment to the host by appearing suspicious and formal. 
Some old-fashioned liosts yet persevere in introducing each new comer to 
all the assembled guests. It is a custom that cannot be too soon abolished, 
and one that places the last unfortunate visitor in a singularly awkward 
position. All that she can do is to make a semicircular courtesy, like a 
concert singer before an audience, and bear the general gaze with as much 
composure as possible. 

An introduction given at a ball for the mere purpose of conducting a 
lady through a dance, does not give the gentleman any right to bow to her 
on a future occasion. If he commits this error, she may remember that 
she is not bound to see, or return, his salutation. 



CHAPTER n. 

VISITING— MOKNING CALLS— CAED3. 

A MOBNING visit should be paid between the hours of two and four p. jc., 
in winter, and two and five in summer. By observing this nile you avoid 
intruding before the luncheon is removed, and leave in sufficient time to 
allow the lady of the house an hour or two of leisure for her dinner toi- 
lette. 

Be careful always to avoid luncheon hours when you pay morning visits. 
Some ladies dine at half-past one, and are consequently unprep:ired for the 
early reception of visitors. When you have once ascertained this to be tbe 
case, be careful never to intrude again at the same hour. 

4 good memory for these trifles is one of the marks of good breeding. 



STIQUETTE. 38 

Visits of ceremony should be short. If even the conversation should 
have become snimated, beware of letting your call exceed half-an-hours 
lengtli. It is always better to let your friends regret than desire your 
withdrawal. 

On returning visits of ceremony you may, without impoliteness, leave 
your card at the door without going in. Do not fail, however, to inquire 
if the family be well. 

Should there be daughters or sisters residing with the lady upon whom 
you call, you may turn down a corner of your card, to signify that the visit 
is paid to all. It is in better taste, however to leave cards for each. 

Unless when returning thanks for "kind inquiries," or announcing your 
arrival in, or departure from, town, it is not considered respectful to send 
round cards by a servant. 

Leave-taking cards have P. P. C. (pour prendre conge) written in the 
corner. 

It is the fashion for unmarried ladies to affix " Miss " to their visiting 
cards. 

Visits of condolence are paid within the week after the event which 
occasions them. Personal visits of this kind are made by relations and 
very intimate friends only. Acquaintances should leave cards with narrow 
mourning borders. 

On the first occasion when you are received by the family after the death 
of one of its members, it is etiquette to wear slight mourning. 

Umbrellas should invariably be left in the hall. 

If other visitors are announced, and you have already remained as long 
as courtesy requires, wait till they are seated, and then rise from your 
chair, take leave of your hostess, and bow politely to the newly-arrived 
guests. Yoa will, perliaps, be urged to remain, but, having once risen, it 
is best to go. There is always a certain air of gaucherie in resuming your 
seat and repeating the ceremony of leave-taking. 

If you have occasion to look at your watch during a call, ask permission 
to do so, and apologize for it on the plea of otLer appointments. 

In receiving morning visitors, it is not necessary that the lady should 
lay aside the employment in which she may be engaged, particularly if it 
consists of light or ornamental needle-work. Politeness, however, requires 
that music, drawing, or any other occupation which would completely 
engross the attention, be at once abandoned. 

You need not advance to receive visitors when announced, unless they 
are persons to whom you are desirous of testifying particular attention. It 
is sufficient if a lady rises to receive her visitors, moves forward a sin- 
gle step to shake hands with them, and remains standing till they are 
seated. 

When your visitors rise to take leave, you should rise also, and remain 
standing till they have quite left tlie room. Do not accompany them to the 
door, but be careful to ring in good time, that the servant may be ready in 
the hall to let them out. 

A lady should dress well, but not too richly, when she pays a morning 
visit. If she has a carriage at command, she may dress more elegantly 
than if she were on foot. 

When a gentleman makes a morning call, he should never leave his hat 
or riding whip in the hall, but should take both into the room. To do 
otherwise would be to make himself too much at home. The hat, however, 
must never be laid on a table, piano, or any article of furniture ; it should 



54 STIQ UETTS. 

be held gracefully in the hand. If you are compelled to lay it aside, put it 
on the floor. 

The visiting cards of gentlemen are half the size of those used by ladies. 



CHAPTEE in. 

CONVEKSATION. 

Theek is no conversation so graceful, so varied, so sparkling as that of 
an intellectual and cultivated woman. Excellence in this particular is, 
indeed, one of the attributes of the sex, and should be cultivated by every 
lady who aspires to please in general society. 

In order to talk well, three conditions are indispensable, namely — tact, 
a good memory, and a fair education. 

Remember that people take more interest in their own affairs than in 
anything else which you can name. If you wisli your conversation to be 
thoroughly agreeable, lead a mother to talk of her children, a young lady 
of her last ball, an author of his forthcoming book, or an artist of his exhi- 
bition picture. Having furnished tlie topic, you need only listen ; and you 
are sure to be thought not only agreeable, but thoroughly sensible and 
well-informed. 

Be careful, however, on the other hand, not always to make a point of 
talking to persons upon general matters relating to their prolessions. To 
show an interest in their immediate concerns is flattering ; but to converse 
with them too much about their own arts looks as if you thought them 
ignorant upon other topics. 

Remember in conversation that a voice "gentle and low" is, above all 
other extraneous acquirements, "an excellent thing in woman." There is 
a certain distinct but subdued tone of voice which is peculiar to only well- 
bred persons. A loud voice is both disagreeable and vulgar. It is better 
to err by the use of too low than too loud a tone. 

Remember that all " slang " is vulgar. It has become of late unfortu- 
nately prevalent, and we know many ladies who pride themselves on the 
saucy chic with which they adopt certain slang words, and other cant 
phrases of the day. Such habits cannot bo to ) severely reprehended. 
They lower the tone of society and the standard of thought. It is a great 
mistake to suppose that slang is in any way a substitute for wit. 

Long arguments in general company, however entertaining-to the dis- 
putants, are tiresome to tlie last degree to all others. You should always 
endeavor to prevent the conversation from dwelling too long upon one 
topic. 

Religion is a topic which should never be introduced in society. It is 
the one subject on which persons are most likely to differ, and least able 
to preserve temper. 

Never interrupt a person who is speaking. It has been aptly said that 
" if you interrupt a speaker in the middle of his sentence, you act almost 
as rudely as if, when walking with a companion, you were to thrust your- 
self before him and stop his progress." 

To listen well is almost as great an art as to talk well. It is not enough 
only to listen. You must endeavor to seem interested in the conversation 
of others. 

It is considered extremely ill-bred when two persons whisper in society, 
or converse in a language with which all present are not tamiliar. If yon 
have any private matters to discuss, you should appoint a proper time and 



ETIQ UETTE. 55 

place to do so, witbbut paying others the ill compliment of excluding 
them from your conversation. 

Do not be alwaya witty, even though you should be so happily gifted as 
to need the caution. To outshine others on every occasion is the surest 
road to unpopularity. 

Always look, but never stare, at those with whom you converse. 

In order to meet the general needs of conversation in society, it is 
necessary that a lady should be acquainted with the current news and his- 
torical events of at least the last few years. 

Never talk on subjects of which you know nothing, unless it be for the 
purpose of acquiring information. Many young ladies imagine that be- 
cause they play a little, sing a little, draw a little, and frequent exhibitions 
and operas, they are qualified judges of art. No mistake is more egregri- 
ous or universal. 

Those who introduce anecdotes into their conversation are warned that 
these should invariably be " short, witty, eloquent, new and not far-fetched." 

Scandal is the least excusable of all conversational vulgarities. 



CHAPTER IV. 

NOTES OF INVITATION, ETC. 

Notes of invitation and acceptance are written in the third person and 
the simplest style. The old-fashioned preliminary of " presenting compli- 
ments " is discontinued by the most elegant letter writers. 

All notes of invitation are now issued in the name of the mistress of the 
house only, as follows : 

" Mrs. Norman requests the honor of Mr. and Mrs. Gecn-ge Jones' com- 
pany at an evening party, on Monday, lith of June." 

Others prefer the subjoined form, which is purchaseable ready printed 
upon cither cards or note paper, with blanks for names or dates : 
" Mrs. Norman, 
"At home, 
" Monday evening, June the lith instant." 

An " At home " is, however, considered somewhat less stately than an 
evening party, and partakes more of the character of a conversazione. 

The reply to a note of invitation should be couched as follows : 

" Mr. Bei'kdey has much pleasure in accepting Mrs. Norman's polite invi- 
tation for Monday evening, June the lith instant." 

Never " avail " yourself of an invitation. Above all, never speak or 
write of an invitation as " an invite." It is neither good breeding nor good 
English. 

Notes of invitation and reply should be written on small paper of the 
best quality, and enclosed in envelopes to correspond. 

Note paper of the most dainty and fastidious kind may be used by a 
lady with propriety and elegance, but only when she is writing to her friends 
and equals. Business letters or letters to her tradespeople should be 
written on plain paper, and enclosed either in an adhesive envelope, or 
sealed with red wax. 

Never omit the address and date from any letter, whether of business 
or friendship. 

Letters in the first person addressed to strangers should begin with 



56 BTIQJTETTS. 

"Sir," or "Madam," and end v.h\i, "I have the honor to be your very 
obedient servant." Some object to tbig form of words from a mistaken 
sense of pride ; but it is merely a form, aad rigbtly apprehended, evinces a 
"proud humility," which implies more condescension than a less formal 
phrase. 

At the end of your letter, at some little distance below your signature, 
and in the left corner of your paper, write ihe name of the person to whom 
your letter is addressed as "Edward Mource, Esquire." 

It is more polite to write Esquire at full length than to curtail it to Esq. 

In writing to a person mucli your superior or inferior, use as few words 
as possible. In the former case, to take up much of a great man's time is 
to take a liberty ; in the latter, to be diffuse is to be too familiar. It is only 
in familiar correspondence that long letters are permissible. 

In writing a business letter begin : 

" Mr. Jones : — fSiV." 

A letter thus begun may, with propriety, be ended with : 

" Yoia's tnihj." 

Letters to persons whom yon meet frequently in society, without having 
arrived at intimacy, may commence with "Dear Madam," and end with, 
"I am, dear Madam, yours very truly." 

Letters commencing "My dear Madam," addressed to persons whom 
you appreciate, and with whom you are on friendly terms, may end with 
"I am, my dear Madam, yours vei-y faithfully," or "yours very sincerely." 

To be prompt in replying to a leiter is to be polite. 

Lady correspondents are too apt to emphasize in their letter writing, 
and in general evince a sad disregard of the laws of punctuation. We 
would respectfully suggest that a comma is not designed to answer 
every purpose, and that the underlining of every second or third word 
'adds nothing to the eloquence or clearneps of a letter, however certain it 
may be to provolse an unflattei-iiig smile upon the lips of the reader. 

All letters must be prepaid. 



CHAPTEE V. 

THE PROMENADE. 

In England, a lady may accept the arm of a gentleman with whom she 
is walking in the afternoon, even tliough he be only an acquaintatfce. This 
is not the case in America. Here a lady can take the arm of no gentleman 
who is not either a husband, lover or neur relative. 

If a lady has been making purchases during her walk, she may permit 
the gentleman who accompanies her to carry any small parcel that she 
may have in her own hand; but slio should not burden him with more 
than one under any circumstances whatever. 

Two ladies may without any impropriety take each one arm of any 
single cavalier; but one lady cannot, with cither grace or sanction of cus- 
tom, take the arms of two gentlemen at the sime time. 

When a lady is walking wiih a gentlemnn in a park, or public garden, or 
through the rooms of un exhibition, and becomes fatigued, it is the gentle- 
man's duty to find her a seat. If, however, as is very frequently the case, 
he is himself obliged to remain standing, the lady should make a point of 
rising as soon as she is sufficiently rested, and not abuse either the patience 
or politeness of her companion. 



ETIQUETTE. 5? 

It is the place of the hidy to bow first, if she meets a gentleman of her 
acquaintance. 

When you meet friends or acquaintances in the streets, the exhibitions, 
or any public places, be careful not to pronounce their names so loudly as 
to attract the attention of bystanders. Never call across the street, or 
attempt to carry on a dialogue in a public vehicle, unless your interlocutor 
occupies the seat beside your own. 

A well-bred man must entertain no respect for the brim of his hat. "A 
bow," says La Fontaine, "is a liOte drawn at sight." You are bound to 
acknowledge it immediately, and to the full amount. The two most ele- 
gant men of their day, Charles the Second and George the Fourth, never 
failed to take off their hata to the meanest of their subjects. Always bear 
this example in mind ; and remember that to nod, un merely to touch the 
brim of the hat, is far from courteous. True politeness demands 1Ht the 
hat should be quiie lifted from the bead. 

On meeting friends with whom you are likely to shake hands, remove 
your hat with the left hand in order to leave the right hand free. 

If you meet a lady in the street whom you are sufiSciently intimate to 
address, do not stop her, but turn round and walk beside her in whichever 
direction she is going. When you have said all that you wish to say, you 
can take your leave. 

If you meet a lady with whom you are not particularly well acquainted, 
wait for her recognition before you venture to bow to lier. 

In bowing to a lady whom you are not going to address, lift your hat 
with that hi-nd which is furthest from her. For instance, it you pass her 
on the right side, use your left hand ; if on the left, use your right. 

If you are on horseback and wish to converse with a lady who is on 
foot, you must dismount and lead your horse, so as not to give her the 
fatigue of looking up to your level. Neither should you subject her to the 
impropriety of carrying on a conversation in a tone necessarily louder than 
is sanctioned in public by the laws of good breeding. 

In walking with a lady tike charge of any small parcel, parasol, or book 
with which she may be encumbered. 

If you 80 far forget what is elegant as to smoke in the street, at least 
never omit to fling away your cigar if you speak to a lady. 

An evening party begins about nine o clock p. m., and ends about mid- 
night, or somewhat later. Good breeding neither demands that you should 
present yourself at the commencement, nor remain till the close of the 
evening. You come and go as may be most convenient to you, and by 
these means are at liberty, during the heiglit of the season wlien evening 
parties are numerous, to present yourself at two or three houses during a 
single evening. 

Pay your respects to the hostess before you even seem to see any other 
of your friends who may be in the room. At very large and fashionable 
receptions she is generally to be found near tlie door. Should you, how- 
ever, find yourself separated by a dense crowd of guests, you ai"e at liberty 
to recognize those who are near you, and those whom you encounter as you 
make your way slowly through the throng. 

General salutations of the company are now wholly disused. In society 
a lady only recognizes her own friends and acquaintances. 

If you are at the house of a new acquaintance and find yourself among 
entire strangers, remember that by so meeting under one roof you are all 
in a certain sense mad^ known to one another, and should, therefore, con- 



58 ETIQUETTE. 

verse freely, as equals. To sliriuk away to a side-table and affect to be 
absorbed in some album or illustrated work ; or, if you find one unlucky 
acciuaintance in the room, to fasten upon her like a drowning man clinging 
to a spar, are gaucheries which no shyness can excuse. 

If you possess any musical accomplishments, do not wait to be pressed 
and entreated by your hostess, but comply immediately when she pays you 
the compliment of inviting you to play or slug. Eemember, however, that 
only the lady of the house has the right to ask you. If others do so, you 
can put them off in some polite way, but must not comply till the hostess 
herself invites you. 

Be scrupulous to observe silence when any of the company are playing 
or singing. Remember that they are doing this for the amusement of the 
rest, and that to talk at such a time is as ill-bred as if you were to turn 
your back upon a person who was talking to you, and begin a conversation 
with some one else. 

If you are yourself the performer, bear in mind that in music, as in 
speech, "brevity is the soul of wit.' Two verses of a song, or four pages 
of a piece, are at all times enough to give pleasure. If your audience desire 
more, they will ask for more ; and it is infinitely more flattering to be en- 
cored than to receive the thanks of your hearers, not so much in gratitude 
for what you have given them, but in relief that you have left off. 

Impromptu charades are frequently organized at friendly parties. Un- 
less you have really some talent for acting and some leadiness of speech, 
you should remember that you only put others out and expose your own 
inability by taking part in these entertainments. Of coui-se, :':' your help is 
really needed, and you would disoblige by refusing, ; on must do your 
best, and by doing it as quietly and as coolly as possible, avoid being awk- 
ward or ridiculous. 

Even though you may take no pleasure in cards, some knowledge of the 
etiquette and rules belonging to the games most in vogue is necessary to 
you in society. If a fourih hand is wanted at a rubber, or if the rest of the 
company sit down to a round game, you would be deemed guilty of an im- 
politeness if you refused to join. 

Married people should not play at the same table, unless where the 
party is so small that it cannot be avoided. This rule supposes nothing so 
disgraceful to any married couple as dishonest collusion ; but persons who 
play regularly together cannot fail to know so much of each other's mode 
of acting, under given circumstances, that the chances no longer remain 
perfectly even in favor of their adversaries. 

No well-bred person ever loses temper at the card-table. You have no 
right to sit down to the game unless you can bear a long run of ill-luck 
with perfect composure, and are prepared to cheerfully pass over any 
blunders that your partner may chance to make. 

If you are an indifferent player, make a point of saying so before you 
join a party at whist. If the others are fine players they will be infinitely 
more obliged to you for declining than accepting their invitation. In any 
case you have no right to spoil their pleasure by your bad play. 

Never let even politeness induce you to play for very high stakes. 
Etiquette is the minor morality of life ; but it never should be allowed to 
outweigh the higher code of right and wrong. 

Young ladies may decline to play at cards without being deemed guilty 
of impoliteness. 

No very young lady should appear at an evening party without an escort. 



ETIQUETTE. 69 

In retiring from a crowded party it is unnecessary that you should seek 
out the hostess for the purpose of bidding her a formal good night. By 
doing this you would, perhaps, remind otiiers that it was getting late, and 
cause the party to break up. If you meet the lady of the house on your 
way to the drawing-room door, take your leave of her as unobtrusively as 
possible, and slip away without attracting the attention of her other guests. 

At an evening party do not remain too long in one spot. To be afraid 
to move from one drawing-room to another is the sure sign of a neophite in 
society. 

If you have occasion to use your handkerchief, do so as noiselessly as 
possible. To blow your nose as if it were a trombone, or to turn your head 
aside when using your handkerchief, are vulgarities scrupulously to be 
avoided. 

Never stand iipon tlie hearth-rug with your back to the fire, either in a 
friend's house or your own. We have seen even well-bred men at evening 
parties commit this selfish and vulgar solecism. 

Never offer any one the chair from which you have just risen, unless 
there be no other disengaged. 

If when supper is announced no lady has been especially placed under 
your care by the hostess, offer your arm to whichever lady you may have 
last conversed with. 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE DINNEK-TABLE. 

To be acquainted with every detail of the etiquette pertaining to this 
subject is of the highest importance to every lady. Ease, savoir-faire, and 
good breeding are nowhere more indispensable than at the dinner-table, 
and the absence of them ia nowhere more apparent. How to eat soup and 
what to do with a cherry-stone are weighty considerations when taken as 
the index of social status ; and it is not too much to say that a young woman 
who elected to take claret with her fish, or eat peas with her kuife, would 
justly risk the punishment of being banished from good society. 

An invitation to dine should be replied to immediately, and unequivo- 
cally accepted or declined. Once accepted, nothing but an event of the 
last importance should cause you to fail in your engagement. 

To be exactly punctual is the strictest politeness on these occasions. If 
you are too early, you are in the way ; if too late, you spoil the dinner, 
annoy the hostess, and are hated by the rest of the guests. Some authori- 
ties are even of opinion that in the queaciou of a dinner-party " never " 
is better than " late ;" and one author has gone so far as to say, " if you do 
not reach the house till dinner is served, you had better retire and send an 
apology, and not interrupt the harmony of the courses by awkward excuses 
and cold acceptance." 

When the party is assembled, the mistress or master of the house will 
point out to each gentleman the lady whom he is to conduct to table. The 
guests then go down according to precedence of rank. This order of prece- 
dence must be arranged by the host or hostess, as the guests are probably 
unacquainted, and cannot know each other's social rank. 

The lady who is the greatest stranger should be taken down by the 
master ot the house, and the gentleman who is the greatest stranger should 
conduct the hostess. Married ladies take precedence of single ladies, 
elder ladies of younger ones, and so forth. 

When dinner is announced, the host offers hia arm to the lady of most 



GO ETIQ UETTE. 

distinction, invites the resc to follow by o. few words or a bow, and leads 
the way. The lady of the house shoiald then follow with the gentleman 
who is most entitled to that honor, and the visitors follow in the order that 
has been previously arranged. The lady of the house frequently remains, 
however, till the last, that she niiiy see her guests go down in their pre- 
scribed order; but the plan is not a convenient one. It is much better 
that the hostess should be in her place as the guests enter the dining- 
room, in order that she may indicate their seats to them as they enter, and 
not find them all crowded together in uncertainty when she arrives. 

The number of guests at a dinner-party should always be determined 
by the size of the table. When the party is too small, conversation flags, 
and a general air of desolation pervades the table. When there are too 
many, every one is inconvenienced. A space of two feet sliould be allowed 
to each person. It is well to arrange a party in such wise that the number 
of ladies and gentlemen is equal. 

Tlie lady of t!ie hoiise takes the head of the table. The gentleman who 
led her down to dinner occupies tlie seat on her right hand, and the gentle- 
man next in order of precedence that on her lett. The master of the house 
takes the foot of the table. The lady whom he escorted sits on his right 
hand, and the lady next in order of precedence on his left. 

As soon as you are seated at table, remove your gloves, place your table 
napkin across your knees, and remove the roll which you find probably 
within it to the left side of your plate. 

The soup should be placed on the table first. Some old-fashioned per- 
sons still place soup and fish together ; but " it is a custom more honored 
in the breach than the observance." Still more old-fashioned, and in still 
worse taste, is it to ask your guests if they will tuke " soup or fish." They 
are as much separate courses as the fish and the meat ; and all experienced 
diners take both. In any case, it is inhospitable to appear to force a choice 
upon a visitor, when that visitor, in all probability, will prefer to take his 
soup first and his fish afterward. All weil-ordered dinners begin with 
soup, whether in summer or winter. The lady of the house should help it, 
and send it round without asking each individual in turn. It is as much 
an understood thing as the bread beside each plate, and those who do not 
choose it are always at liberty to leave it untasted. 

In eating soup, remember always to take it from the side of the spoon, 
and to make no sound in doing so. 

If the servants do not go round with wine the gentlemen should help 
the ladies and themselves to sherry or sauterne immediately after ihe soup. 

You should never ask for a second supply of either soup or fish ; it 
delays the next course, and keeps tlie table waiting. 

Never offer to " assist" your neighbors to this or that dish. The word 
is inexpressibly vulgar — all the more vulgar for its affectation of elegance. 
" Shall I send you some mutton ?" or " May I help you to grouse ?" is better 
chosen and better bred. 

As a general rule, it is better not to ask your guests if they will partake 
of the dishes ; but to send the plates round, and let them accept or decline 
them as they please. At very Lirge dinners it is sometimes customary to 
distribute little lists of the order of the dishes at intervals along the table. 
It must be confessed that this gives somewhat the air of a dinner at a hotel, 
but it has the advantage of enabling the visitors to select their fare, and' 
as " forewarned is forearmed," to keep a corner, as the children Bay, for 
their favorite dishes. 



ETiqUETTE. 61 

As soon ae you are helped, begin to eat, or, ii the viands are too hot for 
yonr palate, take up your knife and fork and appear to begin. To wait for 
others is now not only old-fashioned, but ill-bred. 

Never offer to pass on the plate to which you have been helped. This 
is a still more vulgar piece of politeness, and belongs to the manners of a 
hundred years ago. The lady of the house who sends your plate to you is 
the best judge of precedence at her own table. 

In helpin;; soup, fish, or any other dish, remember that to overfill a 
plate is as bad as to supply it too scantily. 

Silver fish-knives will now always be met witli at the best tables ; but 
where there are none, a piece of crust should be taken in the left hand and 
tbe fork in the right. There is no exception to this rule in eating fish. 

We presume ii is scarcely necessary to remind our fair reader that she 
is never, under any circumstances, to convey her knife to her mouth. Peas 
are eaten with the fork ; tarts, curry, and puddings of all kinds with the 
spoon. 

Always help fish with a fish-knife, and tart and puddings with a spoon, 
or, if necessary, with a spoon and fork. 

In helping sauce, always pour it on the side of the plate. 

If the servants do not go round with the wine (which is by far the best 
custom) the gentlemen at a dinner-table should take upon tbeuiselves the 
oflSce of helping those ladies who sit near them. Young ladies seldom 
drink moi-e than three glasses of wine at dinner ; but married ladies, pro- 
fessional ladies, and those accustomed to society and haliits of affiuence, 
will habitally take five or even six, whether in their own homes or at the 
tables of their friends. 

The habit of taking wine with each other has almost wholly gone out of 
fashion. A gentleman may ask the lady whom be conducted down to din- 
ner, or he may ask the lady of the house to take wine with him. But even 
these last remnants of the old custom are fast falling into disuse. 

Unless you are a total abstainer, it is extremely uncivil to decline taking 
wine if you are invited to do so. In accepting, you have only to pour a 
little fresh wine into your glass, look at the person who invited you, bow 
slightly, and take a sip from the glass. 

It is particularly ill-bred to empty your glass on these occasions. 

Certain wines are taken with certain dishes, by old-established custom 
— as sherry or sauterne with soup and fish; hock and claret with roast 
meat; punch with turtle; champagne with whitebait; port with venison ; 
port or burgundy with game ; sparkliug wines between the roast and the 
confectionery ; madeira with sweets ; port with cheese ; and for dessert, 
port, tokay, madeira, sherry and claret. Red wines should never be iced, 
even in summer. Claret and burgUTidy should always be slightly warmed ; 
clarut cup and champagne cup should, of course, be iced. 

Never speak while you have anything in your mouth. 

Be careful never to taste soups or puddm^s till you are sure they are 
sufficiently cool ; as, by disregarding this caution, you may be compelled 
to swallow what is dangerously hot, or be diiven to the unpardonable 
alternative of returning it to your plate. 

When eating or drinking, avoid every kind of audible testimony to the 
facts. 

Finger-glasses, containing water slightly warmed and perfumed, are 
placed to each person at dessert. In these you may dip the tips of your 
lingers, wiping; them afterward on your table-napkin, If the finger-glass 



62 ETIQUETTE. 

and doyley are placed on your des8ert-plate, you should immediately 
remove the doyley to the left of your plate, and place the finger-glaos upon 
it. By theee means you leave the right for the wine-glasses. 

Be careful to know the shapes of the various kinds of wine-glasses 
commonly in use, in order that you may never put forward one for another. 
High and narrow, and very broad and sliallow glasses, are used for cham- 
pagne ; large, goblet-shaped glasses lor burgundy and claret ; ordinary 
wine glasses for sherry and madeira ; gieen glasses for hock ; and some- 
wLat large, bell-shaped glasses for port. 

Port, sherry, and madeira are decanted. Hocks and champagnes ap- 
pear in their native bottles. Claret and burgundy are handed round in a 
claret jug. 

The servants leave the room when the d< ssert is on the table. 

Coffee and liquors should be handed round when the dessert has been 
about a quarter of an hour on the table. After this, the ladies generally retire. 

The lady of the house should never send away her plate, or appear to 
to have done eating, till all her guests have finished. 

If you should unfortunately overturn or break anytliing, do not apolo- 
gize for it. You can show your regret in your face, but it is not well-bred 
to put it into words. 

To abstain from taking the last piece on the dish, or the last glass of 
wine in the decanter, only because it is the last, is highly ill-bred. It im- 
plies a fear on your part that the vacancy cannot be supplied, and almost 
conveys an affront to your host. 

When the ladies leave the dining-room, the gentlemen all rise in their 
places, and do not resume their seats till the last lady is gone. 

Should you injure a lady's dress, apologize amply, and assist her, if 
possible, to remove all traces of the damage. 

In summing up the little duties and laws of the table, a popular author 
has said that "The chief matter of consideration at the dinner-table — as, 
indeed, everywhere else in the life of a gentleman — is to be perfectly com- 
posed and at his ease. He speaks deliberately ; he performs the most 
important act of the day as if he were performing the most ordinary. Yet 
there is no appearance of trifling or want of gravity in his manner, he main- 
tains the dignity which is so becoming on so vital an occasion. He performs 
all the ceremonies, yet in the style of one who performs no ceremonies at 
all. He goes through all the complicated duties of the scene as if he were 
' to the manner born.' " 

Bear in mind tliat it is your duty to entertain your friends in the best 
manner that your means permit. This is the least you can do to recom- 
pense them for the expenditure of time and money which they incur in 
accepting your invitation. 

Never reprove or give dii-ections to your servants before guests. If a 
dish is not placed precisely where you would have wished it to stand, or 
the order of a course is reversed, let the error pass unobserved by your- 
self, and you may depend that it will be unnoticed by others. 

If you are a mother, you will be wise never to let your children make 
their appearance at dessert when you entertain friends at dinner. Children 
are out of place on these occasions. Your guests only tolerate them 
through politeness ; their presence interrupts the genial flow of after- 
dinner conversation ; and you may rely upon it that, with the exception of 
yourself, and perhaps your husband, there is not a persou at table who 
does not wish them in the nvirsery. 



ETiq UETTE. 63 

The duties of hoateas at a dinner-party are not onerous ; but they 
demand tact and good breeding, grace of bearing and self-possession in no 
ordinary degree. She does not often carve. She has no active duties to 
perform ; but she must neglect nothing, forget nothing, put all her guests 
at their ease, encourage the timid, draw out the silent, and pay every pos- 
sible attention to the requirements of each and all around her. No acci- 
dent must rufifle her temper. No disappointment must embarrass her. She 
must see her old china broken without a sigh, and her best glass shattered 
with a smile. In short, to quote the language of a clever contemporary, 
she must have " the genius of tact to perceive, and the genius of finesse to 
execute ; ease and frankness of manner ; a knowledge of the world that 
nothing can surprise ; a calmness of temper that nothing can disturb ; and 
a kindness of disposition that can never be exhausted." 



CHAPTER Vn. 

THE BALL-ROOM. 

Ae the number of guests at a dinner-party is regulated by the size of the 
table, so should the number of invitations to a ball be limited by the pro- 
portions of the ball-room. A prudent hdsteas will always invite a few more 
guests than she really desires to entertain, in the certainty that there will 
be some deserters when the appointed evening comes round ; but she will 
at the same time remember that to overcrowd her room is to spoil the 
pleasure of those who love dancing, and that a party of this kind, when too 
numerously attended, is as great a failure as one at which too few are 
present. 

A room which is nearly square, yet a little longer than it is broad, will 
be fouud the most favorable for a ball. It admits of two quadrille parties, 
or two round dances, at the same time. In a perfectly square room this 
arrangement is not so practicable or pleasant. A very long and narrow 
room is obviously of the worst shape for the purpose of dancing, and is fit 
only for quadrilles and country dances. 

The top of tlie ball-room is the part nearest the orchestra. In a private 
room the top is where it would be if the room were a dining-room. It is 
generally at the furthest point from the door. Dancers should be careful 
to ascertaiu the top of the room before taking their places, as the top 
couples always lead the dances. 

A good floor is the last importance in a ball-room. In a private house 
nothing can be better tlian a smooth, well-stretched hoUand, with the car- 
pet beneath. 

Abundance of light and free ventilation are indispensable to the spirits 
and comfort of the dancers. 

Invitations to a ball should be issued in the name of the lady of the 
house, and written or engraved on small note paper of the best quality. 
The paper may be gilt-edged, but not colored. The sealing-wax used 
should be of some delicate hue. 

An invitation to a ball should be sent out at least ten days before the 
evening appointed. A fortnight, three weeks, and even a month may be 
allowed in the way of notice. 

Not more than two or three days should be permitted to elapse before 
you reply to an invitation of this kind. The reply should always b(( 
addressed to the lady of the house, and should be couched in the samc^ 
person as the invitation. The following are the forma generally in use ; 



64 ETIQUETTE. 

"Mrs. Molyneux requests the honor of Mr, ffamUton's company at an 
evening party, on Monday, March the llth inslnnt. 

" Dancing wilt begin ai nine o'clock. 
" 2'hursday, March 1st." 

" Mr. Hamilton ha.<i much pleasure in accepting Mrs. Mohjneux's polite 
invitation for Mondag evening, March the llth instant. 

" Friday, March 2d." 

The old form of " presenting compliments " is now out of fashion. 

The lady who gives a ball* should endeavor to secure an equal number 
of dancers of both sexes. Many private parties are spoiled by the prepon- 
derance of young ladies, some of whom never get partners at all, unless 
they dance with each other. 

A room should in all cases be provided for the accommodation of the 
ladies. In this I'oom there ought to be several looking-glasses, attendants 
to assist tlie fair visitors in the ari-angement of their hair and dress, and 
some place in which the cloaks and shawls can be laid in order, and found 
at a moment's notice. It is well to affix tickets to the cloaks, giving a dupli- 
cate at the same time to each lady, as at tlie public theaters and concert- 
rooms. Needles and thread should also be at hand, to repair any little 
accident incurred in dancing. 

Another i-oom should be devoted to refreshments, and kept amply sup- 
plied with coffee, ices, lemonade, wine and biscuits during the evening. 
Where this cannot be arranged, the refreshments should be handed round 
between the dances. 

The question of supper is one which so entirely depends on the means 
of those who give a ball or evening party, that very little can be said upon it 
in a treatise of this description. Where money is no object, it is, of course, 
always preferable to have the whole supper, " with all appliances and 
means to boot," sent in from some fii-st-rate house. It spares all trouble 
whether to the eiitertaiu<irs or thtir servants, and relieves the hostess of 
every anxiety. Where circumstances render such a course impnailent, we 
would only observe that a home-provided supper, however simple, should 
be good of its Kind, and abundant in quantity. Dancers are generally hun- 
gry people, and feel themselves much aggrieved if the supply of sand- 
wiches proves unequal to the demand. 

A ball generally begins about half-past nine or ten o'clock. 

To attempt to dance without a knowledge of dancing is not only to make 
one's self ridiculous, but one's partner also. No lady has a right to place a 
partner in this absurd position. 

Never forget a ball-ro«m engagement. To do so is to commit an un- 
pardonable offense against good breeding. 

On entering the ball-room, the visitor should at once seek the lady of 
the house, and pay her respects to lier. Having done this, she may ex- 
change salutations with such friends and acquaintances as may be in the 
room. 

No lady should accept an invitation to dance from a gentleman to whom 
she has not been introduced. In case any gentleman should commit the en-or 
of so inviting her, she should not excuse herself on the plea of a previous' 
engagement, or of fatigue, as to do so would imply that she did not herself 
attach due importance to the necessary ceremony of introduction. Her 

• It will be understood that we use tlie word " ball " to slgaify a private party wUere 
Ibere is dancing, as well as a public ball. 



ETIQ UETTE. 65 

best reply would be to the efifect that she would have much pleasure in 
accepting his invitation if he would procure an introduction to her. This 
observation may be taken as applying only to public balls. At a private 
party the host and hostess are sufficient guarantees for the respectability 
of their guests ; and although a gentleman would show a singular want of 
knowledge of the laws of society in acting as we have supposed, the lady 
who should reply to him as if he were merely an impertinent stranger in a 
public assembly-room would be implying an affi-ont to her entertainers. 
The mere fact of being assembled together under the roof of a mutual 
friend is in itself a kind of general introduction of the guests to each other. 

An introduction given for the mere purpose of enabling a lady and gen- 
tleman to go through a dance together does net constitute an acquaintance- 
ship. The lady is at liberty to pass the gentleman in the park the next 
day without recognition. 

It is not necessary that a lady should be acquainted with the steps in 
(U'der to walk gracefully and easily through a quadrille. An easy carriage 
and a knowledge (if the figure ie all that is requisite. A round dance, how- 
ever, should on no account be attempted without a thorough knowledge of 
the steps, and some previous practice. 

No person who has not a good ear for time and tune need hope to dance 
well. 

No lady should accept refreshments from a stranger at a public ball, 
for she would thereby lay herself under a pecuniary obligation. For these 
she must rely on her father, brothers, or old friends. 

Good taste forbids that a lady should dance too frequently with the same 
partner at either a public or private ball. Engaged persons should be 
careful not to commit this cunspicnoiis solecism. 

Engagements for one dance should not be made while the present dance 
is yet in progress. 

Never attempt to take a place in a dance which has been previously en- 



Withdraw from a private ball-room as quietly as possible, so that your 
departure may not be observed by others, and cause the party to break up. 

If you meet the lady of the house on your way out, take your leave of 
her in such a manner that her other guests may not suppose you are doing 
so ; but do not soeu ber out for that purpose. 

Never be seen without gloves in a ball-room, though it were for only a 
lew moments. Ladies who dance much and are particularly soigne in 
matters relating to the toilet, take a second pair of gloves to replace the 
first when soiled. 

A thoughtful hostess will never introduce a bad dancer to a good one, 
because she has no right to punish one friend in order to oblige another. 

It is not customary for married persons to dance together in society. 

At the beginning and end of a quadrille the gentleman bows to his 
partner, and bows again on handing her to a seat. 

After dancing, the gentleman may offer to conduct the lady to the 
refreshment-room. 

Should a lady decline your hand for a dance, and afterward stand up 
with another partner, you will do well lo attribute her error to either for- 
getfulness or ignorance of the laws of etiquette. Politeness toward your 
host and hostess demands that you should never make any little personal 
grievance the ground of discomfort or disagreement. 

A gentleman conducts his last partner to supper, waits upon her till she 



66 ETiq UETTE. 

has had as much refreshment as she desires, and then re-conducta her to 
the ball-room. 

However much pleasure you may take in the society of any particular 
lady, etiquette forbids that you should dance with her too frequently. 
Engaged persons would do well to bear this maxim iu mind. 

It is customary to call upon your entertainers within a few days after 
the ball. 



CHArTER VIII. 

STAYING AT A FRIEND's HOUSE— BKEAKFAST, LUNCHEON, ETC. 

A VISITOR is bound by the laws of social intercourse to conform in all re- 
spects to the habits of the house. In order to do this effectually, she 
should inquire, or cause her persunal servant to inquire, what those habits 
are. To keep your friend's breakfast on the table till a late hour; to delay 
the dinner by want of punctuality ; to accept other invitations, and treat his 
house as if were merely a hotel to be slept in ; or to keep the family up till 
unwonted hours, are alike evidence of a want of good feeling and good 
breeding. 

At breakfast and lunch absolute punctuality is not imperative, but a 
visitor should avoid being always the last to appear at table. 

If letters are delivered to you at breakfast or luncheon, you may read 
them by asking permission from the lady who presides at the urn. 

Always hold yourself at the disposal of those in whose house you are 
visiting. If they propose to ride, drive, walk, or otherwise occupy the day, 
you may take it for granted that these plans are made with reference to 
your enjoyment. You should, therefore, receive them with cheerfulness, 
enter into them with alacrity, and do your best to seem pleased, and be 
pleased, by the efforts which your friends make to entertain you. 

A guest should endeavor to amuse herself as much as possible, and not 
be continually dependent on her hosts for entei-tainment. She should re- 
member that, however welcome she may be, she is not always wanted. 

Those who receive "staying visitors," as they are called, should remem- 
ber that the truest hospitality is that which places the visitor mont at her 
ease, and affords her the greatest opportunity for enjoyment. They should 
also remember that different persons have different ideas on the subject 
of enjoyment, and that the surest way of making a guest happy is to flud 
out what gives her pleasure ; not to impose that upon her which is pleasure 
to themselves. 

A visitor should avoid giving unnecessary ti-ouble to the servants of the 
house, and should be liberal to them on leaving. 



CHAPTER IX. 

RIDING AND DRIVING. 

In liding, as in walking, gentlemen give the lady the wall. 

If a gentleman assists a lady to mount, hold your hand at a convenient 
distance from the ground, that she may place her foot in it. As she springs, 
you aid her by the impetus of your hand. In doing this, it is always better 
t'> agree upon a signal, that her spring and your assistance may come at 
the same moment. For this pnrpose there is no better form than the old 
duelins; one of "one, two, three." 

When the lady is in the saddle, it is your place to find the stirrup for 



ETiq UETTE. 67 

her, and guide her left foot to it. When this ia done, she rises in her seat 
and you assist her to draw her habit straight. 

Even when a groom is present, it is more polite for the gentleman him- 
self to perform this office for his fair companion, as it would be more polite 
for him to hand her a chair than to have it handed by a servant. 

If the lady be lisht, you must take care not to give her too much impe- 
tus in mounting. We have known a lady nearly thrown over her horse by 
a misplaced zeal of this kind. 

In riding with a lady, never permit her to pay the tolls. 

If a gate has to be opened, we need hardly observe that it is your place 
to hold it open till the lady has passed through. 

lu driving, a gentleman places himself with his back to the horses, and 
leaves the best seat for the ladies. 

If you are alone in a carriage with a lady, never sit beside her, unless 
you are her husband, father, son, or brother. Even though you be her 
affianced lover, you should still observe this rule ot etiquette. To do 
otherwise, would be to assume the unceremonious air of a husband. 

Wlien the carriage stops, the gentleman should alight first, in order to 
assist the lady. 

To get in and out of a carriage gracefully is a simple but important ac- 
complishment. If there is but one step, and you are going to take your 
seat facing the horses, put your left foot on the step, and enter the carriage 
witli your right, in such a manner as to drop at once into your seat. If you 
are about to sit with your back to the horses, reverse the process. As you 
step into the carriage, be careful to keep your back towards the seat you 
are about to occupy, so as to avoid the awkwardness of turning when 
you are once in. 

A gentleman cannot be too careful to avoid stepping on ladies' dresses 
when he gets in or out of a ca.rriage. He should also beware of shutting 
them in with the door. 

CHAPEK X. 

ENGAGEMENTS AND WEDDINGS. 

The gentleman presents the lady with a ring as soon as they are en- 
gaged. Almost any style of ring may properly be used as the symbol of 
betrothal, but those who wish to conform to the ordinary usage, select 
either pearls or diamonds. If the person can say with Lothair that " there 
is a reserve about pearls that I like, something soft and dim," he chooses a 
single-stone pearl ring ; if he looks beyond that, a solitarie diamond, al- 
though three-stone rings are very often used. A tasteful ring is one set 
with a pearl in the center, and a small diamond on either side. The set- 
ting should be of a very simple style, but good. A newer style for an en- 
gagement ring is a rnby and a diamond, or a sapphire and a diamond, set 
at right angles or diagonally. The Germans have a poetic formality alinut 
an engagement ring, which is likely to become a general custom. A plain 
gold circlet, inscribed within with the date, and some such tender sentiment 
as "This and the giver ai-e thine forever," is given at the time of betrothal, 
and the same ring is used to complete the marriage ceremony ; the groom 
removing it at the altar and passing it to tlie clergyman. As soon after the 
service as is convenient, a jeweled ring is added to guard the one which is 
honored as the wedding ring. 

There is no presciibed form for the announcement of an enjagement, al- 



68 ETiq UETTE. 

though a writer on the social etiquette of New York says : " The society 
newspapers are expected to gazette the engagement very soon after it is 
made known to kiuspeople and intimate friends. Acquaintances are thus 
informed of the new relation, and the proper felicitations are expressed in 
the usual manner. The propriety of adopting this method of communica- 
tion with society at large is approved by our highest authorities in polite 
afifairs." 

This sounds very well, but the young lady of delicate sentiments would 
shrink from this method of communication, and prefer to make known the 
engagement to friends alone, in some pleasant manner. A dinner-party 
may be given by the family of the bride-elect ; just before rising from the 
feast, the host announces the engagment, when a general outburst of good 
feelings and congratulation follows, or the engagement may be made known 
by note from the mother of the bride-elect or by the lady herself to inti- 
mate friends. Notes and calls of congratulation immediately follow. If 
the families of the betrothed have been previously strangers, it is for the 
gentleman's family to call first. It is very civil and proper for friends who 
entertain generously to show the engaged couple some attention in the 
eiiapeof a dinner or a dancing-party given especially for them. The young 
lady does not make ceremonious culls after the announcement of her en- 
gagement, which is usually made but a short time before the date fixed for 
her marriage. 

It is the exclusive privilege of the mother to name the wedding day for 
her daugliter. 

It is strictly demanded by etiquette that the bride-elect leave her vis- 
iting card in person at the doors of her friend's residence a few days before 
sending out her wedding invitation, but she does not enter, except it be to 
visit an invalid or an aged friend. These ceremonious calls befoi-e mar- 
riage must not be omitted. 

After the invitations are issued, the young lady does not appear in 
public. Her wedding cards are sent out at least two weeks before the 
ceremony is to take place. Invitations to friends residing at a distance are 
forwarded somewhat earlier. 

The invitations are not answered save by a card enclosed in an envelope 
and sent by mail, unless the ceremony occur in the morning and the guests 
are requested to attend the breakfast, then the answer should be explicit 
as for a dinner. It must be a very urgent reason, indeed, that leads one 
to decline an invitation to a wedding, the summons being considered but a 
shade less important in England than one from royalty itself. The invita- 
tions are issued in the name of the bride's parents, parent, or nearest re- 
lative. If the bride stand in the relationship of granddaughter, niece, 
cousin, or simple friend to the persons or person issuing the invitation, 
this is noted in the formula in place of the word " daughter." A wedding 
invitation, as well as all others, should be engraved in script. Fashion 
having long ago decreed that Old English and German text, although 
perfectly harmless and respectable, have no longer any claims worthy of 
recognition by an aristocratic world. 

The invitation is engraved on one sheet of paper, which must be of creamy 
daintiness, and shape! so as to fold once. If cipher, monogram or crest is 
used upon the paper, it sliould not be in color for weddings ; the center of 
the top of the page is the place for it. The fashionable world, at present, 
often has the cipher or monogram upon the envelope, omitting it from the 
note, but if it appear on the note, it must also be used on the envelope ; 



£T1Q irHTTE. 69 

the quality and tint of the invitations, envelopes and reception cards eu- 
closed, should be the same, and not each possess a hue of its own. 
The following is the proper formula : 

Mr. and Mrs. Diedrich Knickerbocker 

request your presence 

at the matTiage of their daughter 

VaroUue Matilda, 

to 

Mr. Wouter Van Tuiller, 

on Wednesday, October seventeenth, 

at three o'clock. 

0-race Vhurcli, 

Broadway dud Tenth Street. 

If you are bidden to the reception, a card enclosed conveys the intelligence. 
This card should be squai-e, the size of the iuvitation note paper once 
folded. 

Mr. and Mrs. Diedrich Knickerbocker, 

Al Home, 

Wednesday, Octohe)- seventeenth, 

from half past three nntil six o'' clock, 

32 West 191s/; Street. 

Another less elaborate style is tlie following : 
Reception 
from half past ihr>e until six o'clock. 
32 West 191 St Street. 

Generally, only half an hour intervenes between the ceremony and the 
reception. 

The admission card (to the church), a less romantic than practical affair, 
can happily be dispensed with in a rural town, but it is an absolute neces- 
sity in cities, where the church would otherwise be filled with sight-seeing 
strangers. 

The card of admission should be long and narrow, and engraved with 
either of the two following forms : 

Grace Ohvrch. 
Ceremony at three o'clock. 
or, 

Grace Church. 
Please present this to the usher. 

One or more of these cards is enclosed. They are intended for distri- 
bution to personal friends of the invited, and also for the use of servants 
who may accompany guests to the church. These cards, with the note of 
iuvitiition and the reception card, are enclosed in the same envelope, super- 
scribed with the 7iam,e only of the person invited, tlieu put in another en- 
velope, on which is written the full name and address, and sent by mail. 

For weddings at home, the form of invitation is the same as for one at 
church with the single exception of the street and number being substituted 
for the name of the church. 

A church wedding is a beautiful affair, and also a complicated one, aa 
the almost countless details testify. The bridesmaids, from two to eight in 
number, are chosen from among the intimate friends of the young lady 
about to be married. The bride's sisters and those of the bridegroom, 



70 i:tiq uette. 

whcu it is pusbible, are usually invited to act as witnesses of the marriage, 
for that is the theoretical use of bridesmaids. The dresses for the occasion 
are given to them by the bride, if their circumstances are such as to make 
it necessary, but not otherwise. When the bride is young, the maids should 
be young, but it is not wise for a single woman of irncertain age to sur- 
round herself with blooming girls. 

Upon her wedding day, it is customary for the young lady to present 
some souvenir of the occasion to each of her bridesmaids ; the gift may 
be either a ring, or bracelet, or a f;in, but it need not be costly. . The 
bouquets of the maids and the houlonnieres of the ushers are also the gift of 
of the bride. 

A scarf-pin of unique or quaint device, or some other article, useful as 
well as ornamental, is given to each of the lasbers, by the bridegroom, as a 
slight acknowledgment of their services. 

The groom chooses the ushers from his circle of relatives and friends ; 
he also selects a single friend, whom he calls by the English title his " best 
man," and to him is entrusted the arrangements of the various social and 
business formalities of the wedding. 

No one ever loses interest in the " divinity which doth hedge " a bride, 
and the typical marriage toilet is always expected to be one of irreproach- 
able taste and elegance. During the last two years a great effort has been 
made by leading modistea to break in upon the "regulation" character of 
wedding dresses and to some extent the attempt has been successful. The 
orange blossoms, formallj' an inseparable part of the bridal gear, are no 
longer considered an absolute necessity, although most brides prefer them 
for the wreath ; and combine them with white heath and lilies ot the val- 
ley ; the bouquet, which seems rather an awkward addition, should be of 
the same kind of flowers as those used for wreath, or white lilies and roses 
may be used. Persian lilies, jasmines, snow-drops, water-lilies, and even 
white hyacinths are used to decorate bridal toilettes, although the latter is 
considered an unlucky flower not to be worn defiantly before the fates. As 
to fabrics, cream white satin is the invariable choice of brides who respect 
tradition, and have rare laces worn by ancestral dames. Brides adhere to 
white suede gloves of extravagant length for the wedding occasion. When 
a colored costume is worn, the gloves are of some harmonious shade, or 
she can, if she choses, go to the altar with uncovered hands — fashion favors 
this, although it is entirely a matter of taste. 

No jewelry of any description should be worn, for when a young'lady goes 
up to the altar, she is, as the French say, eticore jeune fille. If, however, 
the groom's wedding gift be something in diamonds, the bride cannot very 
well do otherwise than wear the ornament, which may possibly be a cres- 
cent for the neck and diamond stars to fasten the veil. When there is any 
display of jewels, the marriage veil of simple tulle is scorned, and for it is 
substituted one of rich point de Veriise lace. 

The dresses of bridesmaids are not as elaborate as that of the bride. 
They may be white or of delicate colors, and are made with trains. 

Fans and baskets of flowers are preferred to bouquets for bridesmaids. 
When a bouquet is carried, it is attached to a chatelaine or bridle of satin 
ribbon at the left side. Veils may or may not be worn, but if used they 
must be shorter than that of the bride. It is not uncommon at present for 
the ladies of bridal parties to copy an historical picture by their garments 
and coiffures. 

If the wedding is by day, the bridegroom and ushers wear full morning 



i^TIQUETTR 71 

dresB, which consists of a frock coat of dark clotb, vest of the same, tight 
trousers aud a light necktie ; white neckties are not worn with frock coats. 
If the wedding is in the evening, full dress is demanded of the groom, and 
of allthe geutlemea in attendance. The groom must wear gloves of some 
light shade. The ushers wears gloves of some delicate color. All the 
gentlemen wears favors, except the groom. He always wears only a flower. 
Favors should be made of white ribbon aud silver leaves. 

For the occasion the church is decorated with rare plants and flowers. 

A large canopy of flowers may occupy the space between the pews and 
the chancel steps, and a bell of white flowers be suspended above the chan- 
cel. Within this bell a peal of silver sounding metallic bells may be 
secreted, and as the bridal party approach the altar, silken cords held by 
some little maiden set the peals in motion, simultaneously with the organ 
notes. The kneeling stool covered with wliite should be looked at and pro- 
perly adjusted by one of the ushers, who has been selected to act as master 
of the ceremonies. He is early at the church and having been made ac- 
quainted with the nuralier of guests expected to be present, he places the 
ribbon or arch of flowers far enougli back from the altar to give ample room 
for evoi-y invited guest, or either for the relatives of the bridal pair, other 
guests occupying the lower part of the church. If any friends are in 
mourning they usually enter the church quietly and hide themselves in 
some obscure nook. No one should attend a wedding reception in a mourn- 
ing dress, which gives place to gray or lavender with a flower on the cor- 
sage, otherwise the person had better stop at home and not cast a shade of 
gloom over the festival. The ushers stand by the inner entrance to the 
church, to be in readiness to escort ladies to their proper seats. If a lady- 
be accompanied by a gentleman he follows her to her seat The usher 
oSen a lady his right arm, and if unacquainted with her, asks if she is a 
friend of the bride or groom, the bride's friends being seated upon the left 
of the main aisle, and the groom's upon the right. After the service the 
ushers act as cavaliers of the bridesmaids, at the reception. The organist 
should be early in his place, as he is expected to play during the arrival of 
the audience. The bridesmaids and other memlDers of the family set off 
first in carriages. The bride, who meets the groom at the altar for the first 
time that day, goes lastj with her mother and father. 

The groom, with the best man, ought to be waiting in the church. When 
the bride and her attendants have arranged themselves in the vestibule, 
the groom with the best man comes from the vestry and watches for the 
coming of his bride, the organ meanwhile playing some melody chosen by 
the bride. The ushers, who usually equal the bridesmaids in number, 
walk in pairs in advance of the ladies, and arrange themselves at the right 
of the two awaiting gentlemen. 

Sometimes the bridesmaids, noiselessly and demurely, precede the 
bride, or they may follow her and always stand at her left ; if they enter in 
advance, two or four little boys, young brothers or relatives of the bride, 
dressed as page:^, bear her train, or carry baskets of flowers, whicli tliey 
scatter in her path as she le:i.ves the church. If the maids follow the bride, 
she is sometimes preceded by two or four little girls, who strew her path 
to the altar with flowers. 

Sometimes garlands of flowers, that have been somewhere hidden, are 
suddenly stretched across the aisle at brief intervals by little maidens who 
stand on the seats at tlie ends of the pews and lift their pretty arms high in 
the air to swing their roses over the pathway of the bridal party as it passea 



72 ETIQUETTE. 

down the aisle. The bride is supported by her father or by the person who 
represents him and is to give her away. The groom comes forward a few 
steps to meet her, takes her hand and places her at the altar to his left. 
The father waits at her left, and a step or two back of her; he gives her 
away by bowing when the question is asked, which is a much simpler form 
than stepping forward and placing his daughter's hand in that of the 
clergyman. The service then begins. As at present all churches use the 
ring, the bride removes the glove from her left hand and gives it to a 
bridesmaid to hold, and sometimes to keep as a good omen. While the 
bride and groom are making the responses, the organist plays softly, and 
after the blessing the clergyman congratulates the husband and wife, who 
are the first to leave the church, the bride taking the groom's right arm ; 
the bridesmaids follow, each escorted by an usher, and just behind the 
bridal company are the father and mother of the bridle. Two of the ushers 
usually hurry from the vestibule to the i-esidence of the bride to be in readi- 
ness to receive the newly wedded. It is now the custom to have a higlily 
illuminated parchment certificate signed by the newly married pair with 
two or three witnesses, the best man, the father and mother, and so on, 
being the attesting parties. 

The bridal party, with half the maids at the right of the lady, and half at 
the left of the groom — the first bridesmaid retaining the place of honor — 
arrange themselves for the usual congratulations ; the parents of the bride 
stand at a little distance upon her right, and those of the groom at his left. 
As the guests arrive, the ushers offer their right arms to the ladies to con- 
duct them to the married pair. The gentlemen attending the ladies follow. 
If the usher is not acquainted with the lady he is escorting, be inquires her 
name on the way, presenting her and the gentleman to the bride and groom 
and then to the parents. The bride should always be addressed first and 
receive the good wishes of her friends, and the groom the congratulations. 

If ladies are present without gentlemen, an usher attends each to the 
supper-room or provides an escort. 

If it be a morning wedding and breakfast is served, the host sits at one 
end of the table and the hostess at the other, he with the bride at his right, 
she with the groom at her right hand. If healths are drunk, the father 
proposes the health of the bride and groom, the bride bows, smiles and 
raises the glass to her lips, while the groom is expected to reply. 



CHAPTER XI. 

AT HOMES, AND FIVE O'CLOCK TEAS. 

Almost every kind of social gathering is now called an " At Home," with 
the exception of a dinner or a wedding breakfast. There are dancing 
At Homes, musical At Homes, and conversational At Homes, and any of 
these may take place in the afternoon or in the evening, as the case 
may be. 

In addition, there are dramatic At Homes, where the performers may 
be amateurs, or professionals whose services have been engaged for the 
occasion. 

The etiquette of all these is precisely similar. Cards are sent out three 
weeks, a forthniglit, or a week previous to the date, according to circum- 
stances. These cards are sold ready printed, with spaces left for the 
names of the hostess and for that of the invited guest, and the date and 
hour. If the entertainment is to consist of music, the word " Music" 



ETIQ UETTK 1-i 

appears on one comer Of the card. If of dancing, the word "Dancing" 
takes its place. 

If the lettei's R. S. V. P. appear on tliese cards of invitation, as tUey 
usually do, an answer should be seni within a few days of its receipt. It 
is inconvenient for the hostess not to know how many guests she is likely to 
receive. 

Whether the invitation be for music, dancing, recitations, or simply for 
conversation, the guests retain their bonnets during their stay, when the 
At Home is held in the afternoon. The cloak or outer wrap is left in the 
charge of the servant, who takes it from the guest in the hull. 

An At Home of this kind is, in fact, a large Five O'clock Tea, with tlie 
diffei-ence that invitations for the latter are issued on the visiting card of 
the hostess, thus : 

Mrs. Smith, 

At Home. 

Tlmrsday, Oct. llih, 4 to 6. 

Refreshments, both at ceremonious teas and at At Homes, are served in 
the dining-room, whither the guests repair during the intervals of music, 
dancing, recitations, or the dramatic entertainments. Tea and coffee form 
prominent features of these, and, in addition, wines and wine cups are 
provided. Tliin bread-and-butter, biscuits, cakes and sandwiches compose 
the edible portion of the fare. Fresh fruit is also on the list, and when this 
is present plates will be necessary. Otherwise — unless ices are included 
in the refreshments — no plates are used. 

Introductions are far from being general on such occasions. The hostess 
must be guided by tact and discretion in such matters. If she sees two 
ladies sitting together who are unacquainted, and with no one else near 
them with whom they can converse, she will introduce them to each other, 
always provided that she thinks such a course would be agreeable to both 
of them. Two or three moments spent in " starting " them upon some sub- 
ject congenial to both, will not be wasted. 

At small five o'clock teas, tea and coffee are handed round in the draw- 
ing-room, and it is unusual to employ a servant to hand the cups. The 
hostess dispenses the tea hei'self, and if there are any gentlemen pre- 
sent they naturally undertake the task of giving each lady her cup of tea or 
coffee, handing her the bread-and-butter or cake, and taking her cup from 
her when empty. In the absence of gentlemen, any young girls who are 
friends of the hostess will volunteer to assist her. 

The gloves are not removed when tea only is taken, but occasionally it 
is necessary to take them off. If the bread-and-butter is carefully rolled 
so that none of the butter appears upon the exterior of the bread, it will be 
found possible to partake of it without removing the gloves, which is fre- 
quently a task of some difficulty — in fact, of so much difficulty that, rather 
than undertake it, the visitor often takes her tea without eating any ; a 
practice which the doctors consider to be very injurious to the digestive 
organs. Biscuits are invaluable for this reason, and the thoughtful hostess 
will always provide them. 

At afternoon dances, ladies retain their hats or bonnets, as at other At 
Homes, inconvenient as the custom is very often found. A very large hat 
will be found very much in the way, and the smaller and lighter the head- 
gear, the better for one's partner and for one's self. 

Evening At Homes are simply dancing parties under another name. A 
very large ball is not called an At Home, but invitations for the ordinary 



n £Tiq uett£. 

" Dance" are uever issued in any other way. The fashionable " small <iud 
early" begins at half-past ton, which is scarcely what our grandmothers 
would have understood by the latter word. As in the case of the afternoon 
At Home, the form which tlio entertainment is intended to take is specified 
upon the card of invitation— " MumIc," "Dancing," "Theatricals," "Tab- 
leaux Vivants," or " Recitations." The hour for which the guests are in- 
vited varies from 9:30 until later, but no guest is expected to arrive punc- 
tually. 

CHAPTEE Xn, 

BAD PRACTICES. 

It may be well to caution our young friends against certain bad practices 
easily contracted, but sometimes difficult to relinquish. The following are 
things not to be done : Bitin<< your nails. Slipping a ring up and down 
the finger. Sitting cross-kneed and jogging your feet. Drumming on the 
table with your Icuuckles ; or, still worse, tinkling on a piano with the fore- 
finger only. Humming a tune before strangeis. Singing as you go up and 
down-stairs. Putting your arm mund the neck of another young girl, or 
promenading the room with arms encircling waists. Holding the arm of a 
friend all the time she sits beside you ; or kissing and fondling her before 
company. Sitting too closely. 

Slapping a gcntlem:in with your handkerchief or tapping him with your 
fan. Allowing him to take a ring off your finger, to look at it. Permitting 
him to unclasp your bracelet, or, still worse, to inspect your brooch. When 
these ornaments are to be shown to another person, always take them off 
for the purpose. 

To listen at door cracks and peep through key holes is vulgar and con- 
temptible. So it is to artk children questions concerning their parents, 
though such things are still done. 

However smart and witty you may be considered, do not exercise your 
wit in rallying and bantering your friends. If you do so, their friendship 
will soon be worn out, or converted into positive enmity. A jest that carries 
a sting with it can never give a pleasant sensation to the object. The bite 
of a mosquito is a very littie thing, but it leaves pain and inflammation be- 
hind it, and the more it is rubbed the longer it rankles in the blood. No 
one lilies to have their foibles or mishaps turned into ridicule, before other 
persons especially. And few can cordially join in a laugh that is raised 
against themselves. 

The slightest jest on the personal defects of those you are conversing 
with is an enormity of rudeness and vulgarity. It iH, in fact, a sneer at the 
Creator tiiat made them so. No human creature is accountable for being 
too small or too large ; for an ill-formed figure, or for ill-shaped limbs ; for 
irregular features or a bad complexion. 

Still worse to rally any person (especially a woman) on her age, or to 
ask indirect questions with a view of discovering what her age really is. 
If we continue to live, we must continue to grow old. We must either 
advance in age, or we must die. Where, then, is the shame of surviving 
our youth ? And when youth departs, beauty goes along with it. At least 
as much beauty as depends on complexion, hair and teeth. In arriving at 
middle age (or a little beyond it) a lady must compound for the loss of 
either face or figure. About that period she generally becomes thinner or 
fatter. If thin, her features shrink and her skin shrivels and fades, even 



ETiq UETTE. 75 

though she rebiina a slendei- and perhaps girlish form. If she grows fat, 
her skin may continue smooth and her complexion fine, and her neck and 
arms may be rounder and handsomer than in girlhood ; but then symmetry 
of shape will cease, and she must reconcile herself to the change as best 
she can. But a woman with a good mind, a good heart, and a good temper, 
can never, at any age, grow ugly— for an intelligent and pleasant expression 
is in itself beauty, and the best kind of beauty. 

Sad, indeed, is the condition of women in the decline of life when "no 
lights of age adorn them ; " when, having neglected in the spring and sum- 
mer to lay up any stores for the winter that is sure to come, they find them- 
selves left in the seiison of desolation witii nothing to fall back upon but the 
idle gossip of the day— striving painfully to look younger than they really 
are; still haunting balls and parties^ and enduring all the discomforts of 
crowded watering places, long after all pleasure in such scenes must have 
passed away. But then they must linger in public because they are miser- 
able at home, having no resources within themselves, and few enduring 
Inends to enliven them with their society. 

The woman that knows how to grow old gracefully will adapt her dress 
to her figure and her age, and wear colors that suit her complexion. 



CHAPTER Xni. 

GENERAL HINTS. 

Nevek speak of abs-^nt persons by only their Christian or surnames, but 

always as Mr. or Mrs. . Above all, never name anybody by the 

first letter of his name. Married people are sometimes guilty of this flag- 
rant otfense ag.dnst taste. 

No lady should permit a gentleman who is not a near relative, or very 
old friend of her family, to defray the cost ot her entrance fee to any thea- 
ter or exhibition, or to pay for her refreshments or vehicles when she hap- 
pens to be under his protection. 

If a person of greater age or higher rank than yourself desires you to 
step first into a carriage, or through a door, it is more polite to bow and 
obey than to decline. 

Compliance with and deference to the wishes ot others is the finest 
breedmg. 

Whnn you cannot agree with the propositions advanced in general con- 
versation, be silent. If pressed for your opinion, give it with modesty. 
Never defend your own views too warmly. When you find others remain 
unconvinced, drop the subject, or lead to some other topic. 

Look at those who address you. 

Never boast of your birth, your money, or your grand friends, or any- 
thing that is yours. If you have traveled, do not introduce that informa- 
tion into your conversation at every opportunity. Any one can travel with 
money and leisure. The real distinction is to come home with enlarged 
views, improved tastes, and a mind free Irom prejudice. 

If you present a book to a friend, do not write his or her name in it, un- 
less requested. You have no riyiht to presume that it will be rendered any 
the more valiiable for that addition ; and yon ought not to conclude before- 
hand that your gift will be accepted. 

Never undervalue the gift which yf n are yourself offering ; you have no 
business to offer it if it is valueless. Neither say thstt you do not want it 



y 

yourself, or that you should throw it away if it were not accepted, etc., etc. 
Such apologies would be iuaulta if true, aud mean nothing if false. 

No compliment that bears insincerity on the face of it is a compliment 
at all. 

Unmarried ladies may not accept presents from gentlemen who are 
neither related nor engaged to them. Presents made by a married lady to 
a gentleman can only be offered in the joint names of her husband and her- 
self. 

Married ladies may occasionally accept presents from gentlemen who 
visit frequently at their liouses, aud who desire to show their sense of the 
hospitality which they rect-ive there. 

There is an art and propriety in the giving of presents which it requires 
a natural delicacy of disposition rightly to apprehend. You must not give 
too rich a gift, nor too poor a gift. You must not give to one much weal- 
thier than yourself; and you must beware how you give to one much poor- 
er, lest you ofieud her pride. You must never make a present with any 
expectation of a return ; and you must not be too eager to make a return 
yourself, when you accept one. A gift must not be ostentatious, but it 
should be worth offering. On the other hand, mere costliness does not con- 
stitute the soul of a present. 

A gift should be precious for something better than its price. It may 
have been brought by the giver fi'om some far or famous place ; it may be 
unique in its workmanship ; it may be valuable only from association with 
some great man or strange event. Autographic papers, foreign curiosities, 
and the like, are elegant gifts. An author may offer his book, or a painter 
a sketch, with grace and propriety. Offerings of flowers and game are un- 
exceptionable, and may be made even to those whose position is superior 
to that of the giver. 

Never refuse a present unless under very exceptional circumstances. 
However humble the giver, and however poor the gift, you should appre- 
ciate the good will and intention, and accept it with kindness and thanks. 
Never say "I fear I rob you," or "I am really ashamed to take it," etc., 
etc. Such deprecatory phi-ases imply that you think the bestower of the 
gift cannot spare or afford it. 

Acknowledge the receipt of a present without delay. 

Converse with a foreigner in his own language. If not competent to do 
so, apologize, and beg permission to speak English. 

Members of one family shouM not converse together in society. 

In entering a morning exhibition, or public room, where ladies are pre- 
sent, the gentleman should lift his hat. 

In going np-stairs the gentleman should precede the lady ; in going 
down, he should follow her. 

If you accompany ladies to a theater or concert-room, precede them to 
clear the way and secure their seats. 

If when you are walking with a lady in any crowded thoroughfare you 
are obliged to proce( d singly, always precede her. 

Always give the ladies the wall ; by doing so you interpose your own 
person between her and the passers-by, and assign her the cleanest part of 
the pavement. 

At public balls, theaters, etc., a gentleman should never permit the lady 
to pay for refreshments, vehicles, and so forth. If she insists on rep tying 
him afterwards, he must, of course, defer to her wishes. 

Do not smoke shortly before entering the presence of ladies. 



ETiq UETTE. 77 

A young man who visits frequently at the house of a married friend may 
be permitted to show his sense of the Idnduess wliich he receives by the gift 
of a Christmas or New Year's volume to the wife or daughter of his enter- 
tainer. 

We should leave our melancholy at home, and try to speak and look 
kindly wherever we go. There in a world of wisdom in this advice, which 
will be readily found out by those who practice it. 

If another tells us of their troubles — no matter how much we may dis- 
like to hear it— sympathize with them if possible, for it will make them 
m )re cheerful and stronger. 

Hypocrisy among females is rarely to be commended, but there are 
times when it is better to be hypocritical than to be rude and impolite. 
Charity and etiquette commands a lady never to insult anotlier in her own 
house, no matter how much she may dislike the visitor ; and it is the very 
acme of ill-breediug to do otherwise. 

Never sit cross-legged, yawn, twist your chain, lounge or lidget in con> 
pany, as it is highly improper. 

Always give way to those older than yourself, unless they request you 
to take the lead ; then obey ; for it is a true si^n of good breeding to com> 
ply with the wishes of thoso who are older than yours. If. 

Try to master shyness ; and when spoken to, never stammer or blush, 
but speak boldly, and in langua:;e be correct. 

In speaking, be moderate. If called upon to defend yourself, never let 
your voice run away with you ; and never get too warm, because hard feel- 
ings follow the latter. Arguments and idle discussion are uncalled fur, as 
it leads to no good. The better way is to change the subject and com- 
mence one that will lead to good feeling. Profane or vulgar language is 
detestable at all times ; so avoid it. 

None but the ill-bred brag of their family connections, wealth, or supe- 
rior intelligence. 

Never push yourself forward to sing or play ; but when invited, do so at 
once, without any excuse. If indisposed, or suffering from cold, hoarse- 
ness or anything else, refuse politely but decisively. 

Always keep your temper, and never cheat. Never accuse another of 
cheating, even if you are morally certain of it; but keep your knowledge to 
yourself ; and the next time refuse firmly, but politely, to play with the 
same party. 

Every person is conceded the right to drink at table or not, as suits him ; 
and neither press him to drink more or try to force him to drink any, if he 
pohitively refuses. 

Never scandalize or ridicule any person, no matter if they are miles 
away or in your immediate vicinity ; and always have a proper respect for 
the religious belief of others, even if they differ entirely from you. 

Aviiid reading in company, for you can contribute better to the pleasure 
of others by not reading. 

Do not slam the door as if you were trying to take it off its hinges, when 
you enter a house. 

In asking favors, say: "If you please;" and when granted, say: "I 
thank you." 

Do not lean your head against the wall, for by so doing you will soil the 
paper. 

No gentleman will sit in the house with his hat on, and especially in the 
presence of ladies. A well-bred man will remove Ids hat as if by instinct 



78 ETIQUETTE. 

wheu entering a room. When handing a lady to a carriage, he, of course, 
keeps his hat on, because his hands are rendering assistance to the lady; 
but in leaving her, he raises his hat from off his head. 

Always be punctual, and you will always be welcome. 

Abstain from the fidgets, and never be uneasy, but keep quiet, no mat- 
ter how the time may lag. 

A lady expects you, being a polite gentleman, to hand her a chair, pick 
up her glove, and, in fact, be attentive to her on all occasions. 

Always knock at the door of a private room before entering, and never 
peer into the private letters or other property that may be in your way. To 
do so, is neither respectful or polite. 

A well-bred persou will never peep over the shoulder of auotber who is 
either writing or reading. 

Another mark of ill-breeding is, in asking questions of a child about 
family affairs. 

Confidence should never be betrayed, even if secrecy has not bound you. 

No mutter how ignorant some people are of the rules of politeness, 
never insult them by letting them know of it, or by doing different. Genu- 
ine good breeding demands that you will violate the rules of politeness 
sometimes, so as to do as others do, unless what they do is too indecent. 

A mere acquaintance should never be addressed by the Christian name, 
and a lady should always put the prefix Mr. before the name of a gentle- 
man. 

Never answer impatiently, but always in courtesy, no matter how incon- 
venient it may be to you. 

No gentleman will ever refuse an apology when tendered in sincerity, 
nor will he fail to offer one when one is due from him. 

Never call upon a man or woman of business during the hours of busi- 
ness, unless you really intend business. 

Whispering in comp my is the most vulgar and ill-bred thing a person 
can do, as it makes others think you are talking of them. 

When entering a room, slightly bow before speaking to the pei'sons 
there. 

Always say : " Good morning," or "Good evening," before taking your 
seat, and particularly so to the host or hostess. 

Husbands and wives should never be spoken of by their Christian name, 
or as "My husband," or as " My wife," but always Mr. or Mrs. . 

It is not only impolite, but unkind and uncharitable, to pay' any atten- 
tion to the deformity of another. 

The person who will abuse or scold any one in the presence of others is 
not worthy to carry the name of lady or gentleman. 

In correcting a mistake in any one, always s.iy : " I ask your pardon, 
but I think you are mistaken ;"' and when the mistake is not of much 
moment, say nothing. 

" Good name, my lord, in man or woman, is the jpwel of their souls ;" 
so said Shakespeare, and so it is ; but especially in women ; and it is the 
duty of evei-y man never to speak ill of her. No matter how mean she may 
she may be, or what provocation she gives you, if you cannot speak wt 11 
of her, say nothing. ^ 

Whenever you promise to do a favor for anybody, never fail in doing it. 

Books that are borrowed should never be loaned to a third party ; and 
such books should never be kept a day after they are finished. 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

BY ELLA RODMAN CHURCH. 



CHAPTER I. 

W0R8TI D EMBROIDEEY. 

Embroidery has been defined as "the art of adding to the surface of 
woveu textures a representation of any object we wish to depict, through 
the medium of the needle, threaded with the material in which the work is 
to be executed." 

From the earliest times, it has been the amusement of women of leisure, 
and the occupation of those whose skilful fingers must be used to briug in 
returns of daily bread. In the Middle Ages, a regular work-room, or " stu- 
dio," was set apart for this especial purpose in the dim old castle ; and 
there the whole paraphernalia of embroidery frames, materials, and imple- 
ments, were always to be found. There, too, the chatelaine sat with her 
maidens embroidering cushions, or book-covers, or those wonderful pieces 
of historical tapestry afterward displaced by the more mechanical arras. 
" Tapestry richly wrought 
And woven close," 

was the favorite needlework of those days ; and these hangings, or " veils," 
were rendered necessary by the style of building, which afforded many 
convenient chinks and loopholes for the wind. Some of these ancient 
pieces of embroilery were very rich, the designs being worked with 
worsted or silk of various colors, and often mixed with gold or silver 
threads, on canvas, cloth, or silk. 

The oldest specimen of this kind of work now in existence is the famous 
tapestry of Bayeux— the work of the English Matilda and lier attendants. 
A piece of embroidery over two hundred and twenty feet long, allliougti 
not much more than half a yard wide, is no trifling accomplisliment ; and 
in spite of the red, blue, green, and yellow horses, some of them with two 
legs of a difif rent color from the rest of their bodies, one cannot but rev- 
erence this curious triumph of the needle that caL claim eight centuries of 
birthdays. It is entirely worked with worsted in very Utile variety of col- 
oring, as the Norman princess had few advantages of this sort, but she has 
represented to the best of her ability tl'e invasion and conquest of England 
by Duke William and his followers. Tlie battle of Hastinsrs is ingeniously 
emphasized by a bordering composed of the bodies of the slain. 

Few would have the time or tlie inclination for such a piece of work in 
these days ; and " some of our moderns are inclined to think that, in days 
of old, when the chief employment of a woman's life was needlework, she 
must have had a very dull, dreary, monotonous time of it. But when we 
survey ancient heirlooms, veritable works of art — the smooth, mossy crew- 
el-work, the frost-like point-lace, the shining gold-threaded ecclesiastical 
work, or even the conventional forms of the now despised cro88-8titch — we 



80 AUTISTIC EMBROILERY. 

imagine every happiness and beauty connected with the age of chivalry, as 
we are conscious of a sense of wonder iikin to that feeling on beholding 
some magnificent ancient jewels, or plate, or pictures." 

As late as the days of the Spectalor, it was written : " How memorable 
would that matron be who shuuld have it inscribed on her monument that 
she wrought out the whole Bible in tapestry, and died in a good old age 
after having covered three Imudred yards of wall in the Mansion House ;" 
but no such exploit is on record. 

The most fashionable woi-sted embroidery of the present time is 

CEEWEL-WOEK. 

This style of work was much in vogue during the latter part of the 
eighteenth century, and has recently been revived, and the modus operandi 
dignified by the name of tlie South Kensington stitch. But people with 
great-grandmothers produce pieces of work done in a similar manner ; and 
the stitch is the same as the long stitch in silk embroidery, only longer and 
more careless. 

Crewel-work was brought to such a stage of perfection by the famous 
Miss Linwood, who literally painted pictures with her needle from her 
thirteeenth until her seventy-eighth year, copying the old masters so suc- 
cessfully that, at a little distance, the needle-worked picture could not be 
distinguished from the painted one, that every one wanted to imitate her; 
but few having the gift, this art foil into disrepute. 

Miss Linwood's pictures were marvels of patience and skill. They were 
embroidered on a stiff, twilled fabric called "tammy," on which tlie out- 
line was drawn in chalk ; and the entire gi-ound was covered wiih close, 
irregular stitches, of gi-eat fineness in the more delicate touches. The 
shading was perfect, the crewels being dyed iiuder the artist's own super- 
vision ; and her first needle-painting, the " Salvator Mundi," from Carlo 
Dolci, was wonderfully true to the original. 

Her collection, which was exhibited for some time in London, contained 
sixty-four pieces ; and among tbem was a portrait of herself in the bloom 
of youth and beauty. 

Tiie great beauty of crewel- work is its freedom from set rules ; in taking 
the stitches, the needle is used more like the brush in the hand oi the 
artist. 

THE CREWEL STITCH 

resembles the wrong side of long back-stitching more than anything else ; 
and is illustrated by Figures 1 and 2. 

The needle is put in at the back of the material and brought out at 1, 
put in again at 2 and brought out at 3, put in again at 4 and brought out at 
5, and so on to tlie end of the line. In outline work the thread should be 
kept to the left of the needle, and great care taken to bring the needle up 
exactly in the line of the pattern, or a wavy, uncertain outline will be the 
result, and the character of the pattern will be lost. 

This method of working is to be used when the material is put in a 
frame ; but when the work is done in the band, it is best illustrated by 
Figure 3. The easiest and quickest way in this case is to begin at the bot- 
tom and work upward— putting tlie needle through (from the back) at 1, 
and back again at 2— through again at 3, and back at 4— until the entire 
distance has been traversed. 

It will be seen that the stitch is very simple, and that much is left to 
the discretion of the worker. Care must be taken that the worsted is not 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



81 



pulled too tight, nor left too loose, as the effect must be smooth and even, 

with the curves clearly defined, and the points sharp and complete. 
In ordinary crewel-work, the stitch should be 

from three-eighths to half an inch long, according 

to its position — some stitches must necessarily be 

shorter — as in filling iii, they must dovetail into 

each other like the tiles of a roof, that no sharp 

Hue of color may indicate the different shades. To 

produce the desired effect, all the stitches should 

not be taken close up to the inner edge of color. 

Figures 3 and 4 will give some idea of this 

shading. 

A leaf or stalk should never be worked across, 

but always (and the same rule, of course, applies 

to flower - petals) in the same direction as the 

fibres in a natural leaf. With such leaves as 

brambles, and others that will suggest themselves, 

one side should be a darker shade than the other. 

Figure 5 shows the natural way of woi'king a leaf. 
In working the stalk of a flower, it is better to 

begin at the lower end first, and work on the out- 
line until it is crossed by a leaf or terminates in a 

flower ; then pass the needle to the other side and 

work back again to the lower end ; then work an- 
other line of stitches inside the outline till the stalk 

is filled up. See Figure 6. Leaves of one shade 

are done in the same way, and the veins are put 

in last. 

Crewel-work has many recommendations ; it is 

easy, is done with comparatively little labor, and 

yet it affords scope for the exercise of artistic skill 

of the highest order. A great variety of beautiful 

shades may be had, and the worsted washes beau- 
tifully, thus possessing a decided advantge over 

other styles of ornamentation. The materials are 

also quite inexpensive, and taking it altogether, it 

produces the best effects with the least outlay of 

labor and expense of any other kind of embroidery. 

Floral designs suit this style of work best ; and somewhat conventional- 
ized models are most suitable — flowers that can be expressed by the fewest 

shades in color. Daisy- 
shaped flowers are particu- 
larly suitable ; and the 
well-known sunflower, not 
/oo much conventionalized, 
but with the tendency of 
its long petals to droop a 
little just indicated here 
and there, is represented 
in Fig 7. 

Simple, old - fashioned 
flowers are most successful 

iu crewel-work. Wild roses being simple, and having very distinct petals^ 





Fig. 3. 



82 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 




Fig. 5. 



and well-marked centres, are better than the double or treble triumphs of 
the florist — to which painting alone can do justice. The daffodil, narcissus, 
and lily tribes, with primro.'^es, honeysuckles, pansies and daisies, bloom 
out charmingly in crewels, and almost any clearly defined leaf is pleasing. 
Butterflies and vases may also be successfully introduced, 
but the latter should be chiefly iu outline. 

The experienced crewel worker may study nature for de- 
signs, and discover unending combinations of beauty and 
delicate touches of detail which give a character to the 
whole. In the veining of leaves especially this is shown ; 
and the leaf of the common scarlet poppy, veined and un- 
veined, in Figures 8 and 9, will show how much depends on 
careful finish. 

But embroidery in general should not attempt too much 
detail — a thorn here aud there on a rose stem being sufHcient 
to suggest the thorny nature of roses, while only a few of 
the larger serrations of the leaves should be retained. The 
bramble, when shorn of superfluous outline, is a very desir- 
able leaf for embroidery ; and Figure 10 shows it in its natu- 
ral state, wliicli, if worUed, would be a confused mass of 
nothing iu particular — while in Figure 11 its shape aud gen- 
eral character are preserved, but all unnecessary notchings 
and veininga are pruned away. 

An important point iu embroidery is to know what may be 
to advantage left undone ; aud as crewel-woi'k is entirely free from all 
artificial raising, it in merely suggestive of general form. 

The crewel itself is a particularly strong, twisted woolen yam, quite un- 
like zephyr and the other wools in use. The shades of color are very soft 
and numerous, and blend beautifully in deli- 
cate flower-petals and varying leaves. The 
work is usually done on heavy linen sheet- 
ing, as this wears well, is easily washed, and 
is particularly suitable for tidies, doilies, and 
many small anicles. 

Other materials may be used to advan- 
tage ; but cloth, velvet, or silk is not suitable 
for crewel-work. Serge makes a very nice 
foundation ; and a pair of invalid's slippers, 
made lately, were worked on white felt. But 
these were done in Canada, where many 
materials are to be had which cannot be 
found here. Said slippers were merely to 
tlirust tlie toes in, as all the rest was sole ; 
ami this white felt pointed piece was orna- 
mented with strawberries in crewel-work. 
This beautiful fruit is quite as eflective as 

flowers are ; and in Figure 12 the clusters may be used separately, or con- 
tiilued indefinitely for a border. A very pretty footstool could be made by 
grouping them closely for the top, and putting the bordering on the band. 
The fruit may be either red or white, as l)est suits the groundwork. 

Velveteen makes a good background for crewel embroidery ; and this is 
suitable both for footstools and hangings. It is also handsome for man- 
tel lambrequins. But the favorite material is crash towelling, which is so 




ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



83 



generally used for the purpose that crewels seem inseparable from it, and 
the work is quite as often called " crash-work " as crewel-work. Crash is 
very serviceable for tidies, toilet covers, toilet mats, traveling bags, etc. ; 
but it does not hang in graceful folds for curtains and portieres, and it is 
not worthy of being embroidered in silks. 

There is a ribbed velveteen in different shades of drab and brown, which 
looks remarkably well as a loundation for crewel-work, if the latter is done 
in a rich, bold design. It should be remembered, as a general thing, that 
while rich materials may be used on cheap groundwork, worsted embroi- 
dery is vei-y unsuitable on a rich foundation. 

We have attempted suggestions only in the way of patterns, as these 
may be bought in great variety wherever the crewels are sold; and for 




Fm. 7. 



those who are unable to design from nature this will be found a very great 
convenience. 

It is not long since all worsted work was done in mechanical patterns on 
canvas ; and some of this work, with stitches laid as regularly as minute 
mosaics, and the shades blended as by the hand of an artist, is still very 
beautiful. It is the mosaic-work of embroidery, and bears the same rela- 
tion to it that the real mosaic does to painting ; but crewel-work has the 
advantage of being more quickly done, and of expressing better the indi- 
viduality of the worker. How quickly, for instance, with needle and crew- 
els, the very essence of a May morning may be condensed into the cluster 
of apple-blossoms from tbe laden bough beside the window ; but who could 
extemporize them into a pattern of set squares on the spur of the moment ? 



84 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



AKTICLES TO BE WOBKED IN CEEWEL8. 

It is always more satisfactory in a work of this kind to find some practi- 
cal illustratious of the suggestions given ; and many peeple like to know 




Fig. 8. 



Fig. 9. 



exactly what to make. We shall be more explicit, therefore, in this little 
volume than would be possible in one of greater pretension, and mention 
articles to be made, as far as our limits will permit. 





Fig. 10. 



Fig. 11. 



AUTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



85 




Being quickly done and effective at a distance, crewel-embroidery is very 
suitable for large pieces of work, such curtains, portieres, friezes, and so 

forth. Portieres and friezes have a pleasant 

suggestion about them of old tapestries ; and 
the latter are really wall-valances. One would 
scarcely undertake 

AN EMBROIDERED FRIIZE 

even in crewel-work, for a large apartment ; but 
a moderate-sized room could be adorned with 
this wall drapery without any unreasonable 
outlay of time. Claret-colored serge or vel- 
veteen, if in harmony with the other coloring of 
the room, worked with perpendicular sunflowers 
or lilies (Figure 13 is a good pattern for the lat- 
ter), with a bordering of gold-color and gi'een at 
top and bottom, would be very ornamental. The 
frieze could be finished with a fringe and hang 
loose at the lower edge, which is prettier, or 
fastened at both sides, paper-fashion. 

Colors and figures may be varied indefinitely 
— for the latter, a standing army of storks would 
often be preferred. Dragons, too, are now so 
generally regarded as cheerful domestic animals 
in the way of adornment, that a procession of 
them across the walls of an apartment on an 
elaborate frieze would, doubtless, add a pleasing 
element in the way of decoration. But those 
who say. Give me beauty, or give me nothing, in 
the way of ornament, will prefer designs of flow- 
ers and leaves. 

A DADO IN CREWELS 

may be done in the same way, only that there 
is more of it; and being nearer the eye, the de- 
sign should be more close and elaborate. The 
patterns on rich papers will be found suggestive 
studies ; and it may be remembered that the 
material for groundwork can be adapted to the 
purse of the embroiderer and the other belong- 
ings of the apartment, from velveteen at a dollar 
a yard to crash-toweling at ten cents. 

The wide material known as jute, and just the 
least bit in the style of brown straw matting, 
would make a very nice dado worked in crewels, 
with a darker brown picked out with gold color; 
and this same material hangs in graceful folds 
for curtains and portieres. A brown room could 
be made very beautiful in this way ; and quiet 
though it is, there is a richness about brown that 
is always suggestive of gilding. 





Fig. 12. 



A WORSTED-WORKED PORTIERE 

should be of velveteen, if this harmonizes with the other hangings of the 



86 



AUTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



room, as the material baa a particularly rich effect in doorways, and artis- 
tically executed crewel-work suits it admirably. Brown velveteen with 
golden sunflowers, or gray witb wild roses, or dark blue with lilies, will be 
found very handsome. 

In working portieres, it is necessary to remember that they should be 
well covered with embroidery, because the light falls on all their parts ; 
while an embroidered border suffices for curtains, as the edges only are 
likely to catch the sun's rays. 

Other hangings may be made for the open shelves of cabinets and 
etageres ; these should also harmonize with the general decoration of the 
room in color and style, but may be richer and more elaborate than the 
larger pieces of embroidery, as they will be subjected to closer inspection. 

CURTAINS WITH SPRAYS OF SUMAC. 

These were really beautiful. The ground was a pale sage green, in 
perfect keeping with tbe prevailing hue of the room ; and the soft, bright 




Fig. 13. 

shades of the crewels were so delicately blended that the effect was a per- 
fect needle-painting of these bright-hued darliugs of the autumn. They 
were embroidered on the plain band of the sage — colored material that 
formed the simple cornice— down the front of the curtains, and here and 
there, on the body of the drapery, a spray seemed to liave dropped by 
accident. 

A SWEET-PEA TABLE COVER 

which emanated from the same hand was nlso a thing of beauty. The table 
was a round one of moderate size, and the top was tightly covered with 
maroon-coll ired flannel. A straight band of white flannel between Ho nar- 
row strips of the maroon formed the border, and on this white ground the 



AUTISTIC EMBROIBERY. 87 

Bweet peas wi re worked in delicately-tinted crewels. Feather-stitching, of 
black and bright green, marked the joining of the white flannel to the 
maroon on either side. The bordering was fiistened to the table with 
silver-headed nails, and finished with a worsted fringe to match the maroon 
flannel. 

This beautiful work was all copied from natural models during hours 
of summer leisure on a country piazza, and many beautiful thoughts and 
memories were wrought into the bright-hued leaves and petals. 

SCREENS IN CREWEL-WORK. 

We saw a honeysuckle screen lately, that might have been beautiful, but 
was not because it had altogether too sombre an air to be viewed in the 
light of an ornament. The workmanship was flne, and regularly done 
according to the rules of art, but as the ground was black and the coral 
honeysuckle was represented in very dull reds and greens, the effect was 
not enlivening. A giay ground of a silver tinge would have been a great 
improvement, but dark work on a dark ground is a dismal production. 

The woodbine honeysuckle can be reproduced in crewels in very natu- 
ral colors, and we have seen some that almost diffused a June odor about 
them. They were worked on very flne, soft crash, and intended for a tidy ; 
but a beautiful fire-screen could be made of them on a blue or plum- 
colored ground. 

The large folding screens, so often in strips of coarse Berlin-wool work, 
are very handsome in crewels ; and climbing vines of all kinds are particu- 
larly suited to them. A crimson ground with water-lilies in one corner, 
and the wild morning-glory, with its nearly white blossoms (that grows in 
damp places and therefore harmonizes with the water-lily) trailing its 
beautiful length across the largest space, while the inevitable heron, bal- 
anced, of course, on one foot, stands sentinel among his reeds and rushes, 
where classic cat-tails bristle like spears, is vis-a-vis to the water-lilies 
on the other side, would be found bright in coloring and handsome in effect. 

But a screen that looks as if some one had come in and thrown a liand- 
ful of daisies over it may be quite as pretty, and is certainly less work. 

CARRIAGE WRAPS 

of fine crash, ornamented with crewel-work, are handsome and serviceable 
for warm weather. A bordering of strawberries and leaves near the edge, 
or one of periwinkle with its delicate blue flowers, would be very pretty ; 
and this bordering, with a large monogram in the center, would sufiScieutly 
ornament the article. 

But endless are the itses to which this simple and charming style of 
embroidery may be put ; and the suggestions given may be indefinitely 
multiplied and rearranged in various forms. 



CHAPTER 11. 

SIMPLE IDEAS OF COLOR. 

Before proceeding to silk embroidery it may be well to consider some 
simple rules of colur, as the proper arrangement of color is of far greater 
importance than the regular placing of stitches, and no embroidery can be 
artistic without it. 

An old-fashioned poet gives some good advice on this subject : 



88 ARTISTIC EMBIiOIBBRY. 

" Choose such judicious force of shade and light, 
As Biiits Mie tlieme and satisfies the si(,'ht; 
Weigh p.-.rt with part, and witli prophetic eye 
The future power of all thy tints descry." 

Truth in rhyme was never better brought out than in the following lines : 

" Know first that light displays and shade destroys 
Refulgent Nature's variegated dyes; 
Thus bodies near the light distinctly shine 
With rays direct, and as it fades decline." 

An eye for color is of the same nature as an ear for music — one knows 
intuitively what is right ; but this is by no means a very common gift ; and 
there are some rules to be observed, independently ol the guidance of 
taste, that are within the reach of all. 

Thus scarlet and yellow were never intended for close companions ; 
brown or lilac invariably quarrel with a scarlet ground ; blue and green 
together, or yellow and green, are like an unpleasant taste in the mouth ; 
blue is perfectly amiable with ecru (the French name for all tiie drabs and 
fawns) ; a cold green blue may be successfully paired with lilac ; drabs 
with a rich brown tone in them take kindly to yellow ; pink and gray are as 
harmonious as love-birds; scarlet affably locks arms with slate-green and 
red-brown ; green with maize, and also with some shades of salmon ; blue 
and maize were made for each other ; lilac and green, blue and claret, are 
also devoted couples. 

One who knows says that black should never be used next a high light ; 
one-eighth of every object has a high light upon it, one-eighth is darkest 
shadow, and six parts light, or half-tint. No objects in nature are positively 
blue, red, or yellow, owing to two causes : one, that most objects reflect the 
sky ; the other, that the atmosphere between the eyes of the observer and 
the light causes the brightness of the tints to be deadened. So that care 
must bo taken to avoid the immediate contact of bright colors with each 
other when an attempt is made to imitate nature. 

Shaded embroidery should be guided by the same rules that apply to 
water-color painting, except that greater depth and brilliancy, and con- 
sequently less delicacy, are the results in view. It requires much dis- 
criminatim to give a natural hue to leaves, and, at the same time, to pro- 
duce sucli contrasts as will give the proper relief. Portions of each should 
be much lighter than others ; and in the grouping, a mass should be thrown 
into shadow under the bright leaves— the shadow being composetl of dark 
green mixed with neutral tint. 

Much may be learned in the way of color by study and observation ; but 
to get just the right shades of even harmonious colors requires care and 
skill. Thus simple red may be used with pure green ; but scarlet, which is 
red tinged with yellow, must have a blue green ; crimson, which is red 
tinged with blue, a yellow green. All colors are darker on a light ground 
and lighter on a dark ground, so that'tints should be selected according to 
the groundwork. 

Position, too, must be considered ; a piece of embroidery that is in- 
tended for a dark corner should have brighter colors and stronger contrasts 
than one which is to be placed in a full light. On a white gmund very 
delicate tints are most suitable, while the broken grays of crash will har- 
monize livid colors. 

Masses of blue should be avoided, as blue is a cold color ; and white 
requires skilful management, as it should be shaded off delicately by 



ARTISTIC EMBttOtBEkY. 89 

means of tiuts that have a large portion of white in tLeir composition. But 
all flowers of the same kind should not be worked in the same shades of 
color ; three white flowers, for instance, of the same species and in one 
cluster, requiring eight shades of silk or worsted to embroider them prop- 
erly, should have these shades differently arranged. For one, a greater 
portion of the five lightest tints would be used ;' for the next, the middle 
shades, perhaps ; in the third, the darkest would be most prominent ; all 
this would depend on the position of the flowers and the skill of the em- 
broiderer. 

Many diflferent colors in one piece of work spoil the effect, except in 
particular cases ; some one prevailing color should be adopted, and the 
rest chosen with reference to it. Some of the most beautifully colored 
work is done in one key of color : one color being taken as the key-note, 
and those shades only are used that form its component parts, or that 
have the original color in their composition. On gold-colored satin, for 
instance, nothing looks so well as a design colored in shades of russet and 
golden browns, introducing every now and then a lighter or darker shade 
of the pure ground color. 

In taking green for the ground color, if a yellow green, then the highest 
note should be yellow ; and it should be carried down through all the 
brown, warm, and russet greens, which owe all their warmth to yellow. 
If the ground is a blue gretn, colder greens must be used, of a sage rather 
tlian a russet tint, while the key-note is struck with a pure blue. Under 
this restraint, the effect, though subdued, is very agreeable. 

If a pure blue is placed near a pure yellow, the eftect is glaring ; but 
when the blue is slightly toned with yellow and the yellow with blue, there 
is quite a different result. A strong blue and a bright red, with a yellow 
gleam in it, stare each other out of countenance ; but a subdued russet- 
green as a neighbor makes them harmonious. 

Purples, and all shades inclining to blue, are difficult to dispose sat- 
isfactorily — those wiih the least blue in them are preferable. Russet is one 
part blue, one part yellow, and two parts red; olive, one part blue, two 
parts yellow, and one part red. It is more pleasing than slate, which has 
two parts blue, one part yellow, and one red. 

When the ground is a red plum or maroon, pure red pinks, with no 
shade of blue in them, will be much more harmonious than blue ; but if 
the ground is a blue plum, pale blue will be better than pink. The shading 
of flowers is always in diflferent shades of the same color ; and this method 
applied to embroidery produces the most charming results. A pattern 
worked on a dark ground in a lighter shade of the same color is always 
pleasing; and in a small room especially a great variety of colors should 
be avoided. A crimson room should have chair or table cover, or tidy, in 
pale crimson mingled with a little pink of the same tone. 

Tims after a pretty conceit, one room might be called the rose-room, 
being furnished with the crimson heart of that beautiful flower running 
through the shades of pink suggestively in the lighter portions, and " broi- 
dered over" with roses and buds where ornament is desirable ; another 
might be the sunflower-room, with its warm golden browns and gleams of 
yellow, and the honest full-moon face of that plebeian blossom astonished 
at being " done" in silks and crewels, and set up to be looked at ; while 
the morning-glory-room, in grays and blues, should imprison all the sun- 
shine to light up its cold colors, and afford a congenial resting-place for its 
pictured blossoms. 



90 ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

CHAPTEE III. 

SILK EMBROIDERY. 

This beautiful work has been practised from the earliest times ; and the 
ancient Egyptians particularly excelled in it. Much of this was done on 
linen — to which we shall ref^r afterwards. Tlie very sails of their galleys 
were embroidered ; and their '■ divers colors of needlework on both sides" 
seems to mean that it was done so that the work was the same on the wrong 
side as on the right— a method of working that requires an immense amount 
of skill and patience, and which is now found only among those eminently 
painstaking races, tiie Chinese, Japanese, and Hindoos. 

Silk embroidery is done on almost any material except cotton and coarse 
linen ; but silk and velvet seem the most suitable fabrics for groundwork. 
If well done, it is handsome on anything ; and as it is an expensive kind of 
needlework, great care should be taken in doing it. As a gefleral thing it 
requires framing, and especially when floss-silk is used. Frames are of 
various kinds ; the best for large pieces of work being the standing frame 
(see Figure 14), which has adjustable screws, and can be lowered or height- 
ened at pleasure. 

The hand or lap frame (Figure 15) is more convenient in embroidering 
smaller articles. 

In putting work into the frame, a strip of strong tape or linen should be 
stitched along the woof ends of the material— which must then be firmly 
sewed with strong double thread to the webbing on the frame. It should 
be made as tight and firm as possible ; the strain being increased gradually 
and cautiously until the tension appears to be sufficient. The woof ends 
should be braced to the side pieces with fine twine. A packing-needle 
threaded with twine must be drawn through the upper right-hand corner 
of the tape or linen, and the end securely tied. The twine must be sewn 
over the latli till the lower corner is reached, knotted securely, and cut ofif ; 
the other side must then be done in the same manner. 

When the material is larger than the frame, it may be sewed on to the 
bars and rolled round one of them, with tissue paper and wadding between 
to prevent the stuif from creasing ; and when the part in the frame is finish- 
ed, it is rolled round the opposite bar, and so on, until the whole is com- 
pleted. The centre ring, marked 1, is a hand frame used for small pieces 
of embroidery. 

In working with a frame it is desirable to use both hands — one to put the 
needle through from the outside, and the other to bring it up again from 
beneath. This will be slow work at first ; but practice and patience will en- 
able one to do it quite dextrously, and the great convenience of working in 
this way will fully repay the trouble of learning it. Two thimbles will be 
necessary, one for each hand. 

THE STITCH FOR SILK EMBROIDERY 

is the same as for crewel-work, except that it is shorter. Other stitches are 
often introduced, which will be noticed in their place ; bat the proper stitch 
for sliaded embroidei-y, the most attractive of this fascinating work, is to 
draw the needle upward from tlie right and finish by putting it down to the 
left. The right hand should always be above the frame, and the left be- 
neath — making the stitches as long as the work will admit of their being, as 
the brilliancy of the silk is destroyed by crowded and short stitches. 

Silk embroidery is both dainty and effective ; and as the materials arc 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



91 



expensive, great care should be used in doing the work, that it may not only 
give satisfaction at first, but prove sufficiently durable to repay the outlay 




Fig. 14. 

of time and money. It la best to avoid touching the silk by drawing it 
through the fingers while working. 

Anything like a regular embroidery stitch is to be avoided, except in 
those portions of the work where it is 
necessary ; as the most charming ef- 
fects are usually produced where there 
seems to have been the greatest indif- 
ference to mechanical regularity. 

When the work has been properly 
arranged in the frame, the first step in 
artistic embroidery is ti> observe the po- 
sition of the flowers and leaves — taking 
it for granted that the outlines have 
been properly traced — and if the model 
is of natural blossoms, so much the bet- 
ter. It ia particularly advisable, before 
beginning the eml)roidery, to study the 
lights and shades, the edges and round- 
er parts, both of the leaves and petals 
of flowers, as they embrace more sur- 
face, naturally receive the light first, 
and are worked with the palest tints. 

In a group of flowers (see Figure 16) it is recommended to begin with the 
smaller parts, such as the stems, buds, and leaves ; and great care should 




Fig. 15. 



92 



AUTISTIC EMBBOIDERY. 



be t.ikcn to Lave every portion clearly outlined — although a visible outline 
should be avoided in fiUed-in work. Again, the careful blending of shades 
mentioned in crewel-woik must be enforced — the stitches being so nicely 
placed to produce the right effect, that their beginning and ending are quite 
lost. 

GKOUP OF FLOWEKS FOB SILK EMBROIDERY. 

The stems of slender flowers should alwiiys be done in stalk-stitch, as 
they can be made more neatly and with less trouble than in satin-stitch. 




Fig. 16. 

The centres are worked in French knot stitch. This is a pretty pattern for 
a variety of small articles : glove-bos, letter-box, pincut<hion, case, etc. 
Or it may be enlarged lor a footstool, sofa-cushion, or chair-seat. 

In working leaves, one half should be done first ; and great care taken to 
follow the direction of the fibres. Figure 17 shows the direction the lines 
would take if we were shading the leaf in drawing. In working a pansy the 
stitches should take the direction of the lines in Figure 18 ; and not cro^s 
the petals, as in Figure 19. Figure 20 shows the proper filling up of a thick 
stalk. 

For narrow leaves, where one stitch will reach from the middle to the 
edge, it is best to pass the thread from the edge underneath to the middle — 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDEBY. 



93 



as tliia makes each stitch begin in the middle, and the under side is nearly 
the same as the upper. A broad leaf or petal requires more than one stitch 
between the middle and the edge ; and for these, the needle may be 
bromght up again wherever the next stitch seems to be wanted. But two 
together should not begin nor end on the same 
line— except on the out^^ide edge to preserve the 
outline, or in showing the middle rib. 

Unless the embroidery is very large and bold, 
the line formed by the meeting of the stitches 
down the middle of a leaf, as m Figure 21, will 
sufSciently mark the mid-rib. If in the real leaf 
it is very deep and plainly defined, a very nar- 
row space between the two lines, tapering till the 
threads meet again near the point, will generally 
be sufficient. See Figure 22. Lateral veins need 
not usually be indicated at all ; but if they are 
very marked, and of a different color from the 
leaf itself, they may be laid on by a cord or a 
piece of thick silk twist— fastening it down with 
small stitches in silk of the same color. This 
must only be done iu large and rather coarse 
work. 

Another important point la the distinct bring- 
ing out of the different characters of the stalks. 
The three examples given (Figures 23, 24 and 25) 
will sliow how the different joinings vary, and 
that care must be taken to make these distinc- 
tions, as well as to finish them off pi-opeily. It 
has been well said that the difference between 
mechanical and artistic embroidery consists in 
showing judgment and finish in all these small 
matters. 

Other stitches used in silk embroidery, be- 
sides the one known distinctively as embroidery- 
stitch, are satin-stitch, French-Unot-stitch, stalk- 
stitch, point-russe, herring-bone or feather-stitch, 
ladder-stitch, chain-stitch, etc. 

Satin-stitch ia used a great deal in white em- 
broidery, and many persona are familiar with it 
who have never attempted to work colors. It 
is also called 

FRENCH, OB FLAT EMBKOIDERY. 

The stitches lie smoothly in a diagonal direc- 
tion close to each other — little or no attention to Pio. 19, 
light or shade being necessary. It may be done 

very effectually in one color, and is then often enriched by gold or silver 
cord around the edges. 

It looks best worked with Mitorae silk— which is also the most durable, 
as it does not fray in the wear nor so quickly lose its glossy appearance as 
when done with floss or Dacca silk. This work is auitable for articles of 
furniture and dress, as well as for small ornamental work. Figure 26 is a 
good illustration of flat embroidery in a pretty border pattern, which may 
be edged with gold thread or with silk of another color. 




91 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



BOBDEB IN FLAT EMBBOIDEEY THE FRENCH KNOT. 

This is very useful for ihe centres of such flowers as the daisy and sun- 
flower, and for filling up leaves in a showy manner. It ia made by brin;;ing 

the thread through to the front 
of the work, and holding it in 
ihe left hand, four or five 
inches from the work — the 
needle being in the riglit 
hand , the thread is twisted 
two or three times around the 
needle as close to the work as 
possible ; then the point is 
turned down into the material 
nearly, but not exactly, where 
the tliread came up ; the nee- 
dle is pulled through to tlie 
other side, and the thread 
drawn carefully till the knot is 
firm. The thread must be 
drawn i-ound the needle close 
up to the work before tlie 
needle is pulled quite through, lest the knot should hang loose and spoil 
the effect. 

STALK-STlTCH. 

It is very easily and quickly done. In veining leaves and working small 
stems, it is more manageable than any other stitch ; and it is formed by 
making a straight stitch rather more than a sixteenth of an inch in length — 
then for the next stitch, putting the needle about half-way back into the first 




Fig 





one and working it the same length. This is so quickly done, that there ia 
danger of doing it carelessly ; but if properly worked, it resembles a finely- 
twisted cord, and gives a very neat finish to the embroidery. 

POINT-KUSSE. 

This is a stitch frequently mention<'d in new embroidery; but tlie modus 
operandi does not seem to be bo well known as that of many others. Pos- 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



95 



sibly because of its very simplicity — for Poiut Russe is merely a succession 
of back-stitclies neatly and regularly done. It is used for many small arti- 
cles ; and is a useful 
adjunct in more ar- 
tistic work. 

The illustration 
in Figure 27 shows 
the eflfect, and the 
uses to which it can 
be put. Every line 
of the design muat 
be carefully followed 
in working it ; and 
very pretty border- 
iuga and ornamental 
figures in long stitch- 
es are often made 
with it. Medallions 
are very pretty in 
Point - Russe ; and 
we give one iu Fig- 
ure 28 that is work- 
ed entirely in this 
stitch, and made 
very effective iu scar- 
let and gold. This 
is intended for a 
purse, and is work- 
ed on light brown 
leather or kid. 

Figui-e 30 is also 
very pretty, and may 
be worked in one or 
more colors. 

Figure 31 is a 
border pattern tliat 
is very effective. 
The diamonds are 
outlined in black 
and white, and the 
leaflets within are of 
green silk. The stars 
are outlined in black 
and blue, the cross- 
ings are red, and tlie 
dots yellow. The fig- 
ure between the 
stars IS black and 
yellow. 




Fig 



HEERING-BONE, OB FEATHER STITCH. 



This is an old-fashioned embroidery stitch revived, which is always 
effective. 

In ancient times, fine pieces of linen were embroidered all oyer witU 



96 



AliTlSTlV EMBIWIUERY. 



flower designs in outline, with hei-o and there a portion filled in, and the 
stems worked in a close hsrring-boue stitch to give them strength and sub- 
stance. Sometimes the whole design would be worked in this stitch, done 
so closely as to have tlie appearance of braid. 

Some ol this tilled-in work was done in a peculiar manner fr6m side to 
side. An oval leaf to be filled would be begun at the base with a few satin 
stitches, then when a point "as reached where it was wide enough, instead 
of passing the thread all the way underneath to the opposite side, about 




Fig. 27. 



one-third of the width of the leaf is taken up in the needle, and the next 
stitch is done in the same way on the opposite side of the leaf— working 
from side to side until the leaf becomes too narrow again, when it is finish- 
ed with a few satin stitches. 

This stitcli throws all tlie silk to the top ; and the crossing of the threads 
in the middle of the leaf has a very rich and soft efifect — giving also the ap- 
pearance of a vein. 

Feather-stitfch seems too well known to need description ; and there is a 
great variety of it, from the simplest " herring-bone," to the prettiest 
feather-like vine ; and it has the advantage of bejng very easily and quickly 
done, 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDEBY. 



97 



It is merely button-hole stitch, in alternate loops and long stitches, sewed 
backward. A design may be drawn first, if needed, to make the work re- 
gular; but with one straight pencil line as a guide, if the eye is not very 
correct, almost any one who can use a needle will be able to do feather- 
stitch. 

This stitch is very much used in applique work ; and it makes pretty 
dividing lines in ornamenting large 
articles. 

We lately saw a table - cover 
worked entirely in feather-stitch, 
that had quite an Oriental appear- 
ance. The groyud was black cloth ; 
and all colors of worsted braid, of 
different widths, were sewed on 
with this stitch — being placed 
around an oblong piece in the cen- 
tre, and in strips across to the 
edge for the border. 

CHAIN-STITCH. 

Another well-known and simple 
embroidery-stitch ; and more beau- 
tiful effects may be produce'd with 
it than are known to the philosophy 
of the ordinary worker. 

Chain-stitcli is sometimes used 
for fiUed-in embroidery ; the lines 
of the chain being laid very close 
together, and following the form of 
the leaf or flowt-r until the space is 
filled. It should always be com- 
menced on the outside, and worked 
to the centre. 

Some very rich kinds of Algerian 
and Eastern work, often embroid- 
ered entirely with gold thread, and 
generally with a mixture of this 
witli silk, are done altogether in 
chain-stitch. It is often found, 
too, in ancient crewel-work ; and is 
made by holding the thread firmly 
over the point of the needle, while 
it is drawn out, so as to form a 
loop. The needle is put back again 
into the centre of this loop, and the 

thread again passed over the point to form a second one- 
succession of loops forming the chain. 

The objection to this stitch is that it has a mechanical effect, and can be 
exactly imitated with the sewing-machine. The long embroidery-stitch is 
much more elastic and natural-looking, and able to accommodate itself 
better to varying forms. Chain-stitch is nseful, however, for outline-work, 
and wherever a stronger line is required than that made by the long stitch. 

Curtains, table-covers, portieres, etc., are handsomely embroidered in 




-and so on, the 



98 



AB TISTIC EMB ROIJJEIi Y. 



chain-stitch ; and Figure Gl gives a very rich bordering pattern for this pur- 
pose. Turkish embroidery is nearly always done in chain-stitch ; and 
covers for small tables, witli a light blue or scarlet ground, worked all over 
in chain-stitch arabesques with bright silks, make a pretty " bit of color" 
for a shaded corner. 

Another effective way of working a table-cover in chain-stitch is to get 
black, red, and white cloth or flannel ; the black lor the centre, the red next 
to the black, and the white for the border— and joining them by lapping the 
edge of one a very little way over the other, proceed to chain-stitch the 
whole with various colored silks. 

Tlie effect is very handsome ; and the bordering may differ from the other 
part by being done in loose overcast stitch over straight pieces of zephyr, 
and finished with little tassels of the bright silks. 

Figure 32 is a very pretty Oriental-looking pattern suitable for a border- 
ing, or it can be used in other ways. The figures placed together are work- 
ed in chain-stitch with silk of two contrasting colors — two shades being 
used in each figure. The outer row of the first is dark-red, and the inner 




Fig. 30.— BoKDEE IN Point Russe. 

one bright-red. The second figure is of two shades of green ; the third of 
two shades of blue ; and the fourth of two shades of yellow. The knotted 
stitch in the centi-e of the oval is violet. The dots outside the ovals are 
worked in satin-stitch, and are alternately red, yellow, violet, and blue. 
The stems are of black silk in point-russe stitches. The four ovals ai-e 
worked in chain-stitch with silk of two shades of brown. 



LADDEK-STITCH. 

This is sometimes quite effective in ornamental embroidery. Figures 33 
and 34 give two different patterns. The material is partly cut away in 
these illustrations, and in some kinds of work this is a great improvement. 
Ladder-stitch makes very pretty border lines — the outer edges being done 
in overcast, and the cross-stitches in point-russe. 

Exquisite pieces of work have been wroiight in silk embroidery from time 
immemorial ; and there is scarcely a material to which it may not be ap- 
plied. A fragment of old embroidery, worked more than a century ago, is 
rei'rcsented as a good subject for study in the way of coloring. 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



99 




Fig. 31.— Border fob Fuentttjee Covers, Portieres, Etc- 
Chain Stitch Embroidery. 



100 



AUTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



This fragment is about eight iuchee deep, intended for bordering, and is 
worked on white satin. The material is ravelled out in a fringe at the bot- 
tom ; then comes a line about an eighth of an inch wide in dark red floss — 
then a row of disks shaded in a dark and a light green ; above these and 
touching one another are two broader lines of red, one tlie same color as 
the first, the other paler ; then there is a representation of moss worked in 
chenille of three shades of green — and from tliis mossy ground spring 
roses, carnations, forget-me-nots, and leafy sprays. This part is treated 




Fig. 32. 

quite decoratively ; and no attempt is made to preserve ihe natural pro- 
portions of the flowers in relation to each other, or to their stems and 
leaves. 

In the sprays, one or two leaves are of peach-blossom color. Above 
this row of flowers are liranches in festoons ; of which tlie stems are olive- 
brown, the leaves shaded, or rather parti-colored, with peach-blossom in- 




FiG. 33. 




Fig. 34. 



dining to pink, olive-brown, and two or three shades of green. It will be 
seen that nature is no more strictly adbered to in color than in form. 

Over these branches is a pattern in two shades of peach-blossom, min- 
gled with a very little blue. Except the moss, the embroidery is all done 
in floss silk split very fine. Seen by artificial light, this beautiful piece of 
work has the brilliancy of cut and polished gems ; while the general efi'ect 
of color is extremely rich and sweet, and would harmonize with almost any 
surroundings. 

A beautiful way of treating the ground color, pai-ticularly if it be one 
that seems to attract too much attention to itsplf, is by working m pm-U 
diaper pattern all over it in a darker shade of the same color— this gives 



AUTISTIC EMBROlDEHY. 101 

depth and richness to the whole. A network of dead gold may be imitated 
in silk of the right shade. 

Dark, brownish greens, deep dull blues, and rich maroons, make good 
grounds ; but black is best for a brilliant effect. The ground must be 
decidedly dark or decidedly light— no half-way shades being allowable, as 
it is far more important for the colors of the work to contrast strongly with 
the ground than with each other. 

CHINESE EMBKOIDEEY. 

The French and Chinese excel in silk embroidery ; and the painstaking 
double work done in China is well known. The great care with which the 
Chinese embroider preserves their materials bright and shining. These 
materials are floss and twisted silks— also the bark of a tree spun into a 
fine thread. Flat lines ot gold also glitter among the silks, and are used 
as stems and connecting links. 

The drawing of these embroideries is sometimes as uncouth as that of 
their paintings ; but in some of their flowers (probably copied from nature) 
they are often even botanically correct. The iris, for instance, which fre- 
quently appears in tlieir designs, is very true to nature ; and so is the time- 
honored stork. The iris, Figure 35, is a good flower for embroidery, and 
may be made as effective iu borders as the sunflower. 

The modern art of embroidery in China is thus graphically described by 
a traveler : 

"For 22 cash, or tseen, I purchased an elegant book filled with choice 
subjects of the graphic art as patterns for the use of the young needle- 
woman. She is assumed to be poor, and hence the little manual is printed 
at about one penny of our money. It has a cover of a fair yellow, studded 
with spangles of gold, and contains between two and three hundred figures 
culled from the various stoi'es of nature and art. 

" In fact these objects are so well selected and so numerous, that they 
might serve as illustrations to a stnall encyclopaedia. One acquainted 
witli Chinese literature and natural history might deliver several lectures 
with this book before him. The meadow, the grove, the brook, the anti- 
quary's museum, and the pages of mythology, with the adornments of the 
house and garden, are all laid under contribution. 

" The book is said to be for the use of the person who l)elongs to the 
green wi/idow— which is an epithet for the dwelling of a poor woman ; while 
the red gallery denotes the residence of a rich female. The industrious 
poor plies her task near the green lattice, which is made of earthenware 
and lets in both the light and the breath of heaven ; while the rich dame 
leans upon the vermeil-tinted balusters of the gaudy veranda, and gazes 
carelessly at the sunbeams as tliey sparkle among the flowers, or waves the 
soft breeze whicii agitates the green roof of the Indian fig-tree. 

"The title-page presents us with a venerable man in the weeds of office, 
holding in his hand a scroll with this motto : ' Heaven's MagiHtrate confers 
wealth.' Over his liead are bats disporting among the clouds, the emblems, 
I suppose, of wakefuluess — for these animals are on the alert while men 
sleep. 

" I once saw two girls at this work in the village of Mongha. They were 
seated upon a low stool, and extended their legs across another of twice 
the height of their seat. In this way a support was provided for the frame 
on which the piece to be embroidered was spread forth. Their faces wore 



1U2 ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

a sickly liue, which was owing, perhaps, to close confinement and the un- 
natural position in which they were obliged to sit. 

" The finest specimens of embroidery are, so far as my observation 




Fig. 35. 



AB TiSTia EMBROIDER Y. 



103 



o'oes, done by men, who stand while at work— a practice which these dam- 
sels could not imitate, as their feet were small. They were poor, but too 
genteel, in their parents' idea, to do the drudgery of the humble house- 
wife ; and so their 
feet were bandaged 
and kept from grow- 
ing beyond the lim- 
its of gentility. Their 
looks were not like- 
ly soon to attract a 
lover, and hence 
they were compelled 
to tease the sampler 
from the glistening 
dawn till dewy eve." 

Chinese embroid- 
ery is particularly 
rich and effective for 
screens, with its clear 
outlines, its gorge- 
ous flowers, and 
showy birds and 
butterflies. It bears 
the closest scrutiny 
• — each stitch, even 
the hair lines, seems 
to be placed just in . 
the right spot ; and y 
applique is often 
brought in so suc- 
cessfully that it looks 
as if woven in the 
material. The vivid 
clusters of crepe 
flowers are beauti- 
ful ; and the judi- 
cious introduction of 
gold thread here and 
there gives a mar- 
velous richness to 
the whole work. 

Very fine floss silk 
is the most common 
material used, and 
the embroidery is 
done in long, irregu- 
lar stitches. Silk and 
satin are generally 
used for the founda- 
tion : but whether 




Fig. 36. 



the color is vivid blue, bright scarlet, or pale gold, the effect seems to be 
equally good. 

The apparent carelessness of this work is one of its great attractions ; 



104 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



the bold, free outlines seem easy of imitation ; and a study of the cheap 
Chinese and Japanese fans will bo found very suggestive in the way of de- 
sign and coloring. A sample design on one of these fans has an intensely 
blue sky at the upper edge — a white moon in its lirst quarter at the upper 
right-hand corner— while at the left-hand lower one a small bunch ot in- 
tensely pink flowers send a warm 
glow over the whole. The effect 
is extremely pretty. 

Japanese embroidery, although 
similar in style and design, seems 
finer and more dainty than the 
Chinese ; and yet it is said that 
their best specimens of work are 
kept for home decoration. The 
finest of these are the cloths used 
as covers for the presents given 
by persons paying visits of cere- 
mony ; these cloths are not given 
witli the presents they cover, but 
are family heirlooms. Eeally good 
Japanese work is said to be 
rarely seen elsewhere. 

The pieces of embroidery 
which are done purposely for a 
foreign market are often very 
handsome, but they do not com- 
pare with those which are exe- 
cuted for their own critical eyes. 
White birds, usually storks, on a 
black satin ground, from which 
they stand out so clearly that 
they seem in the very act of fly- 
ing, are the most common sub- 
ject. Some rare pieces are occa- 
sionally seen in which the work 
is exquisite ; in one, the gi'ound 
will be a deep, soft blue satin, 
like the sky of a summer night, 
while the leading colors of the 
embroidery are gold, pale blue 
and white. 

In another piece, the ground 
is of scarlet moreen, of a sufii- 
ciently bright yellow scarlet to 
harmonize with the gold that 
firms the principal color in the 
embmidery. The subject is a 
long flight of storks ; not less than eighty of them are flying in a zigzag 
line, the angles of which are carefully studied from the bottom to the top 
of the picture. 

Most of these storks are embroidered in white silk, the direction of the 
stitches giving much of their form ; they are pricked out with black, and 
there ia a little pale pink or yellow-green in thoir beaks and legs. About a 




ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 105 

quarter of them are worked all iu gold — represeutiug the birds in shadow, 
or seen against the light ; and these have little or no detail. Each bird is 
distinct, separately drawn, and having its own expression, mode of flight, 
and position in the line. 

Tbe rest of the space is filled by horizontal bars of gold of varying 
widths, and groups of fan-stitches also in gold ; these seem to indicate the 
flat sunset clouds and the tops of the distant trees passed over by the storks 
iu their flight. 

Both in Japanese and Chinese work the subjects are sometimes partly 
painted and partly embroidered ; and the two are so happily blended that 
it is difiScult, at a little distance, to see where one kind of the work stops 
and the other begins. 

In imitating this kind of embroidery for small articles, unmeaning kinds 
of lines in the way of reeds and grasses, as in Figure 36, have a particularly 
characteristic look. Small fans may also be introduced to advantage ; and 
Figure 37 would admit of a small bird and bough at the top on a gold-col- 
ored ground, with brown lines for sticks ; while Figure 38 might have a top 
of pink floss or embroidery silk with black lines at the bottom. These fans 
may be very much varied, and can be made extremely ornamental. Figure 
39 is a still different shape. 

A full-sized fau with small ones embroidered over it would be a pretty 
conceit, or to introduce them in connection with flowers, butterflies, and 
other emblems of summer. 

It must be borne in mind that this kind of work is never overloaded — a 
few grasses, a buttei-fly and a flower often sufficing for a good-sized object. 



CHAPTER IV. 

DESIGNING AND TKANSFERBING DESIGNS. 

This is a most important part of the work, and one that is done in vari- 
ous ways. Patterns can always be stamped at the various fancy-work 
stores, or bought all ready for working; but the embroiderer, with original 
ideas and some taste for drawing, prefers to do this herself. 

Worsted patterns may often be used for outlines, as they are generally 
correct in this respect, and the leaves particularly are well drawn. But 
those who are able to take their models from nature will have less stiffness 
in their work ; and a little practice in this way will sometimes develop 
powers hitherto undreamed of. Large single flowers of all kinds are easi- 
est to begin with ; and a lily, or a wild rose, for instance, will be found 
quite easy to manage. 

A pencil-drawing or a water-color painting can often be accommodated to 
embroidery ; and a too spreading branch or cluster may be made more 
compact by a little management. A spray of apple-blossoms, which is a 
particularly desirable model, will frequently overstep the bounds as- 
signed to it in one way, and not sufficiently fill them up in another. The 
best way to manage is to take a piece of paper the size of the article to be 
embroidered, and divide it by lines into four equal parts. The outline of 
the branch can then be sketched on it ; and the result will probably be 
that two of the squares ai-e filled, one barely touched with a leaf, and the 
other quite empty. More blossoms, leaves, or twigs can be added on one 
side and taken away on the other ; if the whole ground is hot sufficiently 
covered, a butterfly or a bird may be introduced to furnish a bare comer. 

The suitableness of any design for the purpose to which it is to be 



lOG 



ABTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



applied dcpeucla upon whether irs ijositinu 
upright one. 

Borders of upright sprigs, intended lor a 



4^ 



'A 



i 






X 
k 







Fig. 40. 




is to be a horizontal or an 

horizontal position, single or 
grouped, require a 
line or two below, 
which serves to keep 
them together; with- 
out this support they 
look disjointed, and 
each sprig is too in- 
dependent of the 
others. They need 
not touch the line — 
but one near at hand 
seems to keep them 
from falling into 
space. "When the 
sprigs are large, a 
series of lines should 
be used ; and for 
this purpose very 
pretty designs are 
often found in Ori- 
ental china. 

The combination 
in Figure 40 is sim- 
ple enough in de- 
i^ tail, but very effec- 
^7 tive to edge a bor- 
v" dering. It is done 
in chain-stitch, lad- 
der-stitch, and point 
russe. 

Small borders are 
often improved by a 
mere line on each 
side ; and the same 
effect is ' prodiiced 
by sewing the bor- 
dering on material 
of a different shade. 

Birds and butter- 
flies are naturally 
associated with flow- 
ers ; they give an air 
of life, and often 
serve to balance the 
inequalities of a de- 
sign. Butterflies are 
particularly appro- 
priate from their 
great variety both 
of size and coloring, 
and being worked 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 107 

like other artistic embroidery, witboiat any elaboration of detail, they are 
very easily done. 

Vases, which frequently occur in the fashionable designs, should either 
be represented by some material laid on, or worked in lines only — the out- 
line with the pattern on it, as it would appear in a pencil drawing without 
shading. 

A beautiful piece of silk embroidery was worked on a ground of bronze- 
green satin. There were sprays of convolvulus springing from a vase of 
gray satin ; the flowers were white, edged with pure blue— not the purplish 
blue of the natural flower, for that would not have harmonized so well — 
and yet there was nothing unnatural in the effect of the color. The leaves 
were of yellow and gray greens, and the stalks a brownish green. 

Then, to give warmth and life, some sulphur butterflies hovered over 
the garlands. Thus, though in the coloring of the design the component 
parts only of the bronze-green ground were iised, the effect was perfect. 

TKAXSFERRING DESIGNS. 

Designs are traced in various ways, according to the nature and color 
of the material to be embroidered. 

For a light-colored ground, the best method is to trace the pattern on 
tissue or other thin paper, lay the material flat upon a table, and fix the 
place of tlie pattern upon it very exactly. Then put a piece of carbonized 
blue or black paper, face downward, on the material, between it and the 
paper pattern ; and with a stiletto, or other hard-pointed but not too sharp 
instrument (a metallic pencil or knitting needle will often answer the pur- 
pose), trace all the lines of the design, taking care to keep the pattern from 
slipping, and that the fingers do not press too heavily on the transferring 
paper, or more color will come off than is desirable. 

An old sheet of paper is more satisfactoi-y than a new one ; and it is ad- 
visable to rub the latter gently with a cloth before using it, to remove any 
unfixed coloring. 

Pouncing is a more complicated process than tracing ; but for dark- 
colored materials it is safer. 

The design must be first drawn on thick paper, and then pricked along 
the lines with a pin. The paper should then be held up to the light to see 
that the holes are clear, and close enough together to make the pattern 
plain. 

When the pattern is fixed, face upward, on the material, dust it over 
with starch tied up in thin muslin, so that the fine powder goes through 
the holes. Flour will answer the purpose, and may be best applied about 
the pattern with a soft brush. 

The paper must then be taken up very carefully, lifting it straight up- 
ward off the material, so that it does not l>lnr the little dots of white, which 
ought to be in regular order underneath— marking out the design. Tlie 
lines of the pattern should be traced at once, as indicated by the dots, with 
the original design before the eye, with white tracing paint. 

There is also a blue powder for delicate light materials, that might be 
injured by the carbonized paper. 

Another method, when the nature of the design will permit it, is to cut 
out the pattern in paper, place it on the material, and trace round the edges 
with chalk. Then remove the paper, and go over the chalk outline with 
Chinese white, renewing it where it is defective. 

The richer the fabric the more care, of course, is needed in transferring 



108 ARTISTIC EMBROIDEHY. 

the design ; and transparent materials should have the pattern basted un- 
derneath. Embroidery in floss is done on black net— for which the design 
should be managed in this way. 

CHAPTER V. 

ARTICLES IN SILK EMBROIDERY. 

There is scarcely an article for which ornament of this kind is used that 
may not be decorated with silk embroidery, and it is suitable for all mate- 
rials. Curtains, portieres and table-covers are done in outline with silk of 
the same color, but a lighter shade than the ground ; and whole seta of 
furniture have been undertaken by ambitious workers. 

A screen of peacock feathers. 

This was embroidered on a foundation of pale peach-blossom silk with 
split floss, and made up with a plain ebony frame, ornamented here and 
there with a little dead gold. 

It was au exquisite piece of work, both in design and execution, and so 
wonderfully did the brilliant silks reflect the changeful hues of the bronze- 
greens and browns, that it was difficult to convince visitors that real feath- 
ers were not fastened on. The only pattern used by the embroiderer was 
one tail-feather dropped by a m:ijestic fowl almost at her feet; and while 
walking with the trophy in her hand, the design of the screen came to her 
and was forthwitli executed. 

It was a good-sized fireplace screen, and as the room was furnished in 
dark blue, it showed to great advantage. 

A PRETTY banner-screen. 

This was fastened to the end of the mantel ; and the crimson satin foun- 
dation was covered with a small diaper pattern in maroon silk. Thick 
clusters of small daisies without leaves were worked as a bordering in 
embroidery-stitch, the centres in knot-stitch. In the mi<ldle of the screen 
was a beautifully-executed monogram in gold-colored silk. 

ANOTHER banner-screen 

was attached to a gilt stand. This stood on a table and was intended to 
shade the eyes from a lamp or candle. The ground was of pale green silk, 
and it was beautifully embroidered with ivy-leaves of darker shades. In 
the centre there was an antique lamp done in gold thread, and the banner 
was finished with a chenille fringe of green and white. It was lined with 
white silk. 

embroidered table-top. 

Figure 41 may be used for a variety of purposes. It makes a very pretty 
top for a small table, and is worked in stalk-stitch, chain-stitch, point russe, 
and knotted stitch, with the flowers in pink, claret-color, and yellow, on a 
pale bine ground. The sprays and leaves are in shades of olive-green. 

The table, %\hich looks best with a pedestal of ebony or ebonized wood, 
has a border fringe of Macrame lace. 

■WINDOW- curtain BORDER. 

A very handsome bordering for window-curtains was lately worked by 
an artistic needlewoman — fifjures of dragons in gold-colored embroidery 
eilk on a ground of maroon rep. The bordering was intended for a soft 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



109 



gray material, and the straight cornice band was embroidered in the same 
device. 

EMBEOIDERED DBESSES. 

Silk embroidery is very ornameutal lor dresses, although for this pur- 
pose usually done only in one color. Ordiuarily, it would be a formidable 
piece of work to do it in the style of smaller articles ; but iugenuity and 
rapid execution sometimes 
go hand in baud. The he- 
roine of a story is repre- 
sented as threading her 
needle with one length of 
crimson silk, and with this 
scanty material bringing 
out a crimson rose on a 
silk handkerchief almost 
as quickly as a magician 
could do it. A few d(4t 
stitches — and there it was. 
It was taken to pieces quite 
as easily, and no trace of it 
remained. 

But embroidery does 
not usually go on in this 
fashion ; it is careful work, 
and she who takes the 
greatest pains as a general 
thing meets with the best 
success. 

Embroidered robes for full dress are decidedly the fashion now, and 
one of black silk or lace, embroidered with carnations, is beautiful for a 
brunette — while the delicate blonde may wreathe herself with blue convol- 
vulus, or deeply-pink wild roses, on a white or cream-colored ground. 
Every one has her tavorite flower, and to wear it embroidered on an, even- 
ing dress is a graceful way of proclaiming it. 




Painted panels and tiles have become almost a mania ; but the needle 
of the embroideress can produce quite as charming results. Painting is 
more quickly done ; but every one cannot paint, while many who cannot do 
this can embroider exquisitely. 

To keep the embroidered panel or tile fresh and bright, it should be 
protected by glass, and, properly treated, it will be quite as satisfactory as 
painting. 

The two panels for the doors of a small hanging cabinet are very pretty 
with a ground of cloth of gold, gold-colored satin, or silk — a spray of wis- 
taria worked on one, wild roses on the other. Violets and anemones are 
pretty together ; and on anything with four panels may be represented the 
flowers or birds of the four seasons. 

Silhouettes in black silk may be worked on all colored grounds for tiles, 
and ingenuity can accomplish wonders in this way. The whole procession 
ol flowers, from the first snowdrop, or liepatica, of early spring, to the holly 
and berries of Chrirttmas, may be followed up on tiles ; the fans and um- 
brellas of all nations ; and various other suggestions, both practical and 
amusing. 



110 AliTISriC EMBROIDERY. 

SMALL CUETAINS OR HANOINGS 

For cabinets and book-shelves may be made of various materials, and 
ornamented witli silk embroidery. The patterns should be more delicate 
and finished, and the materials of finer quality than for large hangings. 
Arabesques of chain-stitch in gold-colored silk on a dark-blue ground of 
velveteen, with a pretty border pattern at top and bottom ; or a bright- 
colored bird on a branch, with a butterfly in one corner, for a background • 
bu'tercups and daisies on a ground of golden brown, would all be efiective. 

A WREATHED PICTURE. 

Something new in the way of embroidery in to border a picture in tliis 
manner. The frames with painted corners may be imitated with the needle, 
and the daisies, violets, and other flowers will be found quite as ornamen- 
tal in embroidery. 

Bui the wreathed picture was a fine engraving of the Mater Dolorosa, 
small enough to make the process practicable. It was unmounted, and 
the back carefully pasted on the foundation of light-blue satin. Not a 
wrinkle was visible after it was thoroughly smoothed with a soft piece of 
old cambric; and after sewing a piece of narrow, gold-colored silk braid 
around the edge, a wreath of Anunciation lilies was traced and embroid- 
ered on the satin. It was so beautifully done as to look like painting, and 
with a glass over the whole the illusion was complete. It was put in a 
gilded Florentine frame. 

AN EMBROIDERED ROOM. 

It was vei-y pretty to read about in a story, and not impossible to carry 
out practically. The prevailing colors of the room were pale-blue and car- 
nation ; and the curtain-lambrequins of pale-blue were embroidered with 
sprays of woodbine iu its autumn dress of vivid scarlet and crimson. Tlie 
mantel-hanging was in blocks like tiles, done in the same colors ; and the 
panels of a home-made cabinet were likewise embroidered. 

These thmgs, with other accessions, mude it a charming room ; and if one 
could walk bodily into just such an apartment, the eflect would doubtless 
be all that it was represented. 

A FAN TABLE-COVER. 

Outlined palm leaves are very pretty, and fans are no less so. The 
groundwork of cloth, flannel, or satin (if a small table), has three or five 
parallel strips of velvet ribbon sewn down on each side with point russe 
stitches of gold-colored sUk, and put far enough apart for fans of all colors 
to be embroidered between them. 

These are worked in long embi-oiilery-stitch ; and although less work if 
merely outlined, they are so very much richer and brighter looking when 
filled in as to be quite worth the trouble. The ground may be of any color 
that harmonizes with the rest of the room. 

A CHAIR-COVER. 

Long embroidered strips that will cover both back and seat of the kind 
of lounging-chairnow so much in use are very pretty worked like the table- 
cover — the groundwork of the middle strip being of gray satin or velveteen, 
and the rows of fans separated by garnet-colored velvet ribbon, and a strip 
of the same colored velveteen on either side of the gray. A frince where 
the covering ends at top and bottom gives it the look of being carelesBly 
thrown there. 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. Ill 

FIRE-SCREENS. 

"We have just been shown two exquisite pieces of embroidery intended 
for fire-screens. One represented flame-colored gladioli on a black satin 
ground, and was rich beyond expression ; the other was worked with cat- 
tails, reeds, and some unpretending little yellow flowers on a blue ground. 
The material looked like a Chinese groundwork. 

The coloring of both these needle-paintings was perfect ; and as to the 
stitches, it was diflicult to believe that there were any— the shades were 
blended as if with a brush. 

A child's AFGHAN. 

It was made of strips of pink and white cashmere ; the pink ones em- 
broidered with daisies, the white ones with pansies, in embroidery-silk— 
and it was one of the prettiest things of tbe kind ever seen. It was lined with 
thin pink silk slightly wadded and quilted, and bordered with a ruching of 
pink ribbon. The seams were concealed by lines of feather-stitch in gar- 
net-colored silk. 

The resources of silk embroidery are inexhaustible ; and all sorts of 
small articles, pin-cushions, brackets, watch-stands, glove-boxes, sachets, 
etc., will suggest themselves. Fans, too, are beautifully embroidered, and 
divide admiration with fine painting. Ornamental velvets for neck, wrists, 
and belt, are a fashionable device— and these are embroidered with single 
flowers, daisies, violets, etc. 

CHAPTER VI. 

PRINT-WORK. 

This is a very fine kind of embroidery, and specimens of it are quite 
rare. As the name implies, it is intended to imitate a picture, and is gener- 
ally used only for small subjects— the stitches being almost too minute to 
be distinguished at all. 

It is done on white silk or satin, which is carefully stretched in a frame, 
and the design is then drawn on it. This is sketched with a pencil, and 
usually worked in black silk ; the various shades between black and white 
may be used, but not colors— as tlie object is to represent an engraving. 
Lead color, or pale slate, will be as suitable as black. 

A very fine needle must be used, and fine silk to correspond ; and a 
dotted engraving can be so well imitated in this kind of work that it is al- 
most impossible to tell the difference. This stitch used is known as mask- 
ing-stitch ; and it is set as closely as possible without lapping one over an- 
other. 

In working a copy of an engraving, the embroiderer begins with the dark- 
est shades, which are done witli black silk ; gradually proceeding to the 
lightest tints, with silks of tho intermediate shades -blending them into 
each other with- the nicest care. To accomplish this, where it is necessary 
to introduce the lighter portions, the stitches are set wide apart and the in- 
tervals filled up by putting in the lightest tint used. 

The worker must always have the engraving before her to study the 
lights and shades. Fine engravings can be copied in the same way— but the 
stitches should be longer and wider apart. 

This kind of needlework requires great patience and is a heavy strain 
upon the eyesight ; and considering the beautiful effects produced by other 
methods with less delay, it is not likely to become very popular. 



112 ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

CHAPTER VII. 

SILK EMBROIDERY WITH GOLD. 

Much of the ancient work used tor bangiuga was magnificently wrought 
with a mixture of gold embroidery — as much of the Indian needlework is 
now done, especially in Japan and China. The royal palace of Jeddo has 
a profusion of the finest tapestry, wrought by the most curious hands, 
and adorned with pearls, gold, and silver, and other costly embellish- 
ments. 

The Moors of Spain have been especially celebrated for their rich and 
beautiful decorative work ; and with them originated the custom of using 
tapestry for curtains. Mohammed forbade his followers to imitate animals, 
or insects, in their ornamental work ; and from this circumstance, the term 
Arabesque, which represents their style of decoration, was used to express 
all odd combinations of patterns from which human and animal forms 
were excluded. 

Gold was introduced into these arabesques with the richest possible 
effect ; and this style of design has never lost its popularity. It is often 
mixed with other patterns in colors ; but tbe simple richness of an arabesque 
in black and gold cannot be excelled. 

In the Middle Ages the most beautiful gold embroidery was called opus 
Anglicanum ; and this name clung to it whether it was done in England or 
not. Much of this work was done in the convents, or " shee-schools,'' as 
quaint old Fuller calls them ; and besides church vestments, which will 
be mentioned elsewhere, very beautiful secular robes and pieces of tapes- 
try were wrought in silk and gold. 

The richest tapestry was in pieces like large flags and banners ; and was 
a proiiiment decoration on all occasions of festivity or rejoicing. Orna- 
mental needlework of all kinds was hung from the windows, or balconies, 
in those streets through which a pageant, or festal procession was to pass- 
just as flags are suspended now ; and as the houses were then built with the 
upper stories far overhimging the lower ones, these draperies frequently 
hung in rich folds to the ground. When a street was thus adorned through 
its whole length, and partly roofed by the floating streamers and banners 
above, it must have had somewhat the appearance of a suite of magnificent 
saloons. * 

The art of embroidering with gold and silver is very ancient, and these 
costly materials were often woven into fabrics as well ; but the pure metal 
was then used, beaten into thin plates, and then cut into narrow slips, 
which were rounded with a hammer and filed to make threads or wire. 

The metliod is exactly described in Exodus xxxix. 3, as practiced by the 
Israelites : " And they did beat tlie gold into thin plates, and cut it into 
wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and iu the scarlet, and in 
the fine linen with cunning work." 

Old embroidered robes are mentioned made entirely of these gold 
threads without any linen or woolen ground. Pieces of embroidery worked 
with gold were called " orphrpys," from the mediaeval aurifrigium or am-i- 
frasium ; and mention is made, in the reign of Edward III., of two vests 
of green velvet embroidered with gold, one of which was decorated with 
sea-sirens bearing a shield with the arms of England and Hainault. Also 
of a rolie of velvet worked with gold ; and an outer garment wrought with 
pelicans, images, and tabernacles of gold. 

An ancient Persian carpet was ol silk and cloth of gold sixty cubits 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 113 

square. It was intended to represent a garden, and tlie figures were of 
gold embroidery, with the colors heightened by precious stones, the ruby, 
the sappliire, the beryl, the topaz and the pearl being arranged with great 
skill to represent, in beautiful mosaic trees, fruit and flowers, rivulets, 
fountains, and shrubs of every description. 

These specimens, however, are things of the past. 

MODERN WORK 

of tbis kind is generally used in large and bold designs, where much dis- 
play and extreme brilliancy are desired. 

In these days, instead of the pure metal, silver or copper wire, gilt is 
used. Silver threads are covered either witli the pure metal or with plated 
copper. The Chinese very cunningly use slips of gilt paper which they 
twint upon silk threads, and with which they manage to produce very beau- 
tiful effects. 

MATERIALS USED. 

Cord, braid, thread, bullion, spangles, beads, passing, etc., are all used 
in gold embroidery, and in embroidery with gold and silk. 

Of these, "passing," as it is termed, is the finest material of the kind. 
It is a smooth thread of an even size, and resembles a thin, metallic wire, 
differing from gold cord in the closeness with which the flattened wire is 
spirally twisted round the silk, and in being formed of only one thread. 

It is used in the same way as silk, the stitch being generally the satin- 
stitch ; and the needle should be an ordinary needle with a large eye, and 
coarse enough to prevent the fretting of the gold as it is passed backwards 
and forwards through the work. 

Beautiful embroidery is wrought by the Turks with " passing " on 
morocco. 

GOLD CORD. 

This is a twist of two or more threads, which are wound around with the 
flattened wires in a contrary direction to that of " passing " — two, three, or 
four threads being used for needlework. 

Cord is often employed for edging braid-work or flat embr-oidery, also 
for working braiding patterns. It is also used with beautiful effect as a 
ground for small ornamental articles. Fine silk of the same color is best 
for sewing it on ; and great care must be taken, in doing this, not to chip 
the metal surface, or the silk will show beneath ami give the work a bi-oken 
appearance. The needle should be held as hoiizontally as possible, and 
passed between the interstices of the cord, slightly catching up a thread or 
two of the material it is intended to ornament. 

GOLD BRAID. 

This is a kind of plaited lace, made of three or more threads. There 
are various qualities and makes, suited to different purposes, and great 
judgment is required in their selection. When it is to be used on velvet, a 
round, full, close make should be chosen. 

It may be bought of various widths, and as a general thing the less gold 
there is about it the cheaper it is, and the more lial)le to tarnish. Mosaic, 
or copper-gilt, is the least expensive, and also the least durable. 

BULLION. 

This is a very rich and effective material, being made of a fine wire so 
exquisitely twisted that it forms a smooth, round, elastic tube, which may 
be cut with scissors into the necessary lengths. 



lU ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

There are three kinds of bullion : rough, smooth, and checked — all of 
which are frequently used together in the same piece of work. When a 
large letter, for instance, is to be embroidered in bullion, after it is traced, 
the surface is raised with cotton, and the bullion cut into pieces of the 
proper size ; then three stitches might be made with the smooth, two with 
the rough, and three with the smooth ; this would form a kind of pattern, 
and add very much to the richness of the letter. 

Short pieces of bullion can be introduced into patterns worked with gold 
thread to great advantage— two or three of them in the cup of a flower, and 
in various other ways. To fasten them on pniperly, take the stitch (the 
needle being threaded with gold-colored silk) lengthwise of the bullion, 
through the twist— this causes it to lie flat on tlie foundation. 

Stars of every form may be made in this way ; they are extremely bril- 
liant. The centres of flowers are often formed of bullion ; in that case, 
however, the stitch does not pass through the twist its full length, but is 
shorter— so that the middle of the bullion is depressed, and the extremities 
elevated ; or the stitch may be passed through both ends of the piece of 
bullion, and being drawn rather tight, a slight prominence, or expansion, 
will be given to the middle. Either method has a beautiful effect. 



These are small pieces of silver or other metal, gilt or plated — cut into 
various forms, though usually round — and with a hole in the centre through 
which the silk is passed that fastens them to the work. 

It is not easy to secure them properly, and at the same time to conceal 
the means by which it is done. The only way to accomplish it is to bring 
the silk from the under side and pass it through the small hole in the centre 
of the spangle ; the needle is next to be passed tliiough a very small piece 
of bullion ; and then put back through the hole again. This does away with 
the unsightly appearance of a thread across the spangle, and makes it 
more secure. 

Spangles were once extensively used in decorative work, to give it rich- 
ness and glitter ; but now they are chiefly used to ornament fringes and 
tassels, and other Masonic paraphernalia. Their value depends on their 
brilliancy and color, and the amount ot gold used in their gilding. 

Spangled fans are very showy ; and black satin or black tulle is a good 
foundation for showing them to advantage. 

GOLD THREAD. 

This belongs more particularly, perhaps, to " the art of sewing in golde 
and silke ;" and " a robe of Indian sillc thickly wrought with flowers of 
gold" was certainly a gorgeous object. Another i-obe was adorned with 
roses of gold wrought with marvellous skill, and bordered with pearls and 
precious stones of exceeding value. 

Various materials are used as foundations for embroidery in gold 
thread ; crape, Indian muslin, or some kind of silk, being usually preferred 
as giving the best effect, and displaying the rich device to the greatest ad- 
vantage. 

The thread used should be fine and even in texture ; a little care in this 
matter will make the work comparatively easy. Satin-stitch is the one gen- 
erally used ; and if the material to be embroidered is transparent, the pat- 
tern is laid under the foundation, and the outline traced in white thread. 

In working a slender flower-stock, the running thread of M'hite should 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 115 

be omitted ; gold thread should be run in, and then slightly sewed over with 
another thread of gold ; this will give a spiral appearance, which is very 
beautiful. 

In using silk with gold thread, it is best to use silk of one color — a var- 
iety of colors teudiug to destroy the harmony of contrast. Green and gold 
have always been close friends, and silk of a bright green mingled with the 
gold thread has a very rich effect. Gray and gold, black and gold, and 
many other combinations might be mentioned ; but a green branch of sprigs 
embroidered in silk, with flowers formed of gold thread and bullion, is as 
pretty a one as can be made. 

In working crests, however, or coat-of-arms, in which gold thread is 
much used, the heraldic arrangement of metals and colors must be faith- 
fully followed. In such cases, the silk must be of as many colors as in the 
arms when properly emblazoned ; and great care must be taken in working 
devices in imitatiou of arms, never to place a metal upon a metal, or a color 
upon a color. 

In some very rich Indian work lately seen, the ground was of gold thread 
worked in spirals— the rich colors of embroidery silks laid on this made it 
perfectly dazzling. 

India muslins are sometimes worked with a gilt or plated sheet of very 
thin metal cut into strips, or any shape wanted, with scissors. Tinsel is an 
imitation of it, and it comes in various colors. 

Gold beads and gold and silver fringes are more or less used. These all 
vary greatly in size and quality, and are valuable according to the amount 
of gold used in their manufacture. 

Silver thread, cord, or braid, is more likely to tarnish than gold, and is 
not so rich-looking. There is, besides, embroidery silk of a decidedly silver 
white, wliich produces almost the effect of silver thread or cord. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

EMBROIDERED BOOKS AND OTHER ARTICLES. 

" And often did she look 
On that which in her hand she bore, 
In velvet bound and broidered o'er — 
Her breviary book."— Marmion. 

When books were regarded as precious treasures, and the purchase of a 
single volume involved as much outlay as a rare painting, before the art of 
printing became established, tlie caskets that held such valuable posses- 
sions were deemed worthy of much labor and expense. 

Rare old carved ivory, gold and silver plates, and precious stones, were 
often used on book-covers ; and the most a.ncient existing specimen of this 
gorgeous style of book-making is written in silver and gold letters on a pur- 
ple ground. Rich and curious devices were often wrought with the needle 
on the velvet, or brocade, which last became more exclusively the fashion- 
able material for binding. 

The new passion for books which was at its height in Queen Elizabeth's 
day made the ornamentation of book-covers a favorite employment of the 
high-born dames of England. A book of rhetoric of that time has been pre- 
served as much for the sake of the outside as for its contents. The cover ia 
of crimson satin, on which is embroidered a coat-of-arms ; a lion rampant in 
g (Id thread on a blue field, with a transverse badge in scarlet silk, the 
minoy ornaments all wrought in fine gol4 thread, 



116 ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

A MABOON-VELVET BOOK. 

Another old book is bound in i-ich maroon velvet, with the royal arms, 
the garter and motto embroidered in blue ; on a ground of crimson, the 
fieur-de-lys, leopards, and letters of the motto are worked in gold thread. 
A coronet, or crown of gold, is inwrought with peai'ls ; at the corners are 
roses in red silk and gold ; the cover is finished with a narrow border in 
burnished gold tbread. 

A queen's needlework. 

A book of praj'ers copied out by Queen Elizabeth before she ascended 
tlie throne is covered with canvas wrought all over, in a kind of tent-stitch, 
with rich crimson silk and silver thread intermixed. Elizabeth's own 
needle worked the ornaments, consisting of tlie letters " H. K.," iuterwined 
in the middle — a smaller " K" above and below — and roses in the corners^ 
all very much raised, and worked in blue silk and silver. 

Petrarch's sonnets. 

An edition of Petrarch's Sonnets, printed at Venice, in 15M, is still in 
beautiful preservation. The back is of dark crimson silver ; and on each 
side is worked a large royal coat-of arms in silk and gold highly raised. 
The book belonged to Edward VI. 

ANOTHER ROYAL BOOK 

has a cover of crimson silk with a Prince's feather, worked in gold thread 
in the centre. The three feathers are bound together with large pearls and 
wreathed with leaves and flowers. Eouud the edge of the cover there is a 
broader wreath ; and corner-sprigs in gold thread are thickly interspersed 
with spangles and gold leaves. 

These elegant volumes, 

" In velvet bound and broidered o'er," 
are to be seen in the British Museum ; and although the day is past for 
adorning book- covers in so showy a fashion, these articles may be more 
modestly ornamented with very good eifect. 

Kid, or leather, makes a very suitable cover for a Bible or Prayer-Bnok. 
Two shades of brown may be used for the border pattern in Figure 42— 
the figures in the lighter shade to be worked around with gold thread, 
either in chain-stitch or in stalk-stitch. Silk may be substituted for the 
gold thread. 

A ground of gray kid, with the figures in black edged with gold, would 
be equally suitable. On one side of the cover, a small cross to match the 
border — and on the other, the owner's monogram would make an appro- 
priate finish for either book. 

The rich design in Figure 43 is on a foundation of black velvet, to which 
white faille is applied around the cross. 

The figures of the design being outlined, the lines are run on the edges 
with maize-colored silk — going back and forth, and overcasting them with 
gold bullion. The passion-flowers, wheat, leaves, and ornaments of the 
cross, are worked in satin-stitch with gold thread. For the stems and 
vines, gold cord is sewed on with gold-colored silk. 

A BOOK OF ENGRAVINGS 

would be very ornamental with an embroidered cover. Crimson or maroon- 
Qolored velveteen, browii kid, or gray canvas, could be handsomely worked 



ARTiSTIO EMBItOiDmt. 



li? 



with silk and gold thread. Bordcrings of catalogues and circulars might 
be copied to advantage -some of those being very rich : black, with gold 

bars and dots, pink, crim- 
son, or blue. 

Heraldic devices, rich 
monograms, dainty cor- 
ners, all look well in this 
kind of work ; and a bor- 
dering of gold acorns, or 
clover leaves, on a 
brown or olive ground, is 
always handsome. 

SCEAP-BOOK COVERS 

may be made as attrac- 
tive as the contents, ac- 
cording to the style of 
the illustrations. Eussia 
duck is a very good foun- 
dation ; and if the con- 
tents ai'e of a comic na- 
ture, a Ciiinese or Jap- 
anese figui'e, or dragon, 
or either uncanny beast 
or bird, may be outlined 
and made very rich and 
showy with embroidery 
in the proper colors mix- 
ed with gold thread or 
braid. 

Pongee, too, may be 




Fig. 42.— Bobder for Cover of Bible, Praver-Book, eto. 



118 



AliTtSTtC mmROlDERY. 



nicely embroidel-ed ; and ie yery pretty for tbiu books tied with a ribbon 
at tbe back. In ibis way, the contentB can be changed at pleasure. 




43._CovEE FOR Peayek-Book. 



ALBUM COVEKS 

Bhould be more delicate, and worked on velvet, or silk, ^iguje 44 makes a 
verv pretty corner for this purpose ; and Figure 45 is very effect ve on a 
ISrbook. The stars might be done in gold thread, the centre m pomt- 



AUTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



119 



rusae with black Bilk— the diiunouds in aatin-stitch of a lighter or darker 
shade of the same color as the foundation. 

Portfolios may be embroidered iu the same way ; and whether for writ- 
ing materials or for engravings, they can be made very ornamental. 

LETTER- CASE. 

A very rich and handsome letter-case is represented in Figures 46 and 
47 : Figure 46 showing it when completed, and Figure 47 displaying the 
principal part of the embroidery. 

The most suitable ground for the rich gold em- 
broidery is velvet-biown, crimson, or blue ; 
but it may be made very handsomely in kid or 
morocco. The larger part of the case is eleven 
inches long, and eight inches wide ; on the up- 
per part of this book, there is a pattern in 
gold soutache, and the word Lettees or Let- 
TKES embroidered in gold bullion ; beneath 
this, there is a pattern worked with white 
satin beads, edged round with fine white 
cheniUe — the scroll pattern is embroidered 
iu gold. 
Tue second part is placed over the lower 
part of the first, and forms the pocket 
wliicL holds the letters. Tije central 
flower is formed with eleven oval beads, 
edged with white chenille ; another 
white bead is placed in the centre, and 
edged with gold. The other flowers 
are also composed of white satin 
beads edged with gold. 




GOLD AND SILK EMBEOIDERY. 

This rich pattern is in- 
tended for a cushion, or 
chair-cover. It is par- 
ticularly hand- 
some on a 



FiQ. 44.— CoBNEE OF Border in Satin-Stitch Embboideby for Album 
Covers, Portfolios, etc. 



120 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



groixncl of blue velvet, or siitin ; and the large flowers, leaves, and stems, 
are all outlined with gold thread sowed on with fine yellow silk. The sta- 
mens are worked in satin-stitch with yellow silk, and the veins in point- 
russe with blue silk. 

The forget-me-nots are done in satin-stitch with blue silk, and the cen- 
tres in knotted-stitch with gold thread. The veins and stems are done in 

stalk-stitcli, and the sprays and 

vines in point-russe with blue silk. 
The work is finished on the 
outer edge with a thick cord of 
blue silk and gold thread. 

Pigure 49 is intended for a 
cigar - case ; but if widened it 
would make a very pretty book 
or portfolio cover. 

The material should be light- 
brown Russia leather ; the wheat- 
sheaf is embroidered in satin- 
stitch with dark-brown silk — the 




Fig. 45. 

stem and lipiht outlines in stalk-stitch with gold thread. The bordering is 
of gold cord, with a network of dark-brown silk, and stitched with black 
at all the crossings and centres. 

MONOGEAJI IN GOLD THREAD. 

This very pretty monogram is worked with gold thread ; the leaves and 
flowers may be done with silk if preferred. 



CHAPTER IX. 

APPLIED WOEK WITH EMBROIDEKY. 

Applique, as it is usually called, is the most simple kind of decorative 
needlework, being nothing more than a pattern cut out of one material and 
transferred on another. It must, of course, like all faticy-work, be neatly 
done, with no rough edges or mis-matching figures, and embroidery of some 



AUTISTIC EMiROIDEnr. I2l 

kind is used as a finish ; but the same amount of skill and practice is not 
required as in other artistic work. 

When properly done, it is very rich and effective ; and it recommenda it- 




self by the charming results produced with comparatively little labor. The 
materials may be of almost any kind ; but it is necessary that the orna- 
mental part should harmonize with the foundation. One would not think, 
for instance, of applying velvet on cotton or linen — while on satin, it makes 
the richest kind of applied work. 



m 



A nri^Tic mrnnoiDKUY. 



Applique may be liue or coarse according to the purpose for which it is 
inteuded ; if fiue, it is safer to put it in a frame before beginning the work. 
If the groundwork is velvet, satin, or silk, hollaud should be stretched in a 
frame, and the desigu drawn upon it and upon the velvet or other material ; 




they should then be pasted together, and cut out with a sharp pair of scis- 
sors. Cloth and commoner materials do not require tliis " backing," as it 
is called ; but may be cut after the pattern is traced, and pasted directly on 
the groundwork. 

The gum, or paste, used lor this purpose should be as thick and dry as 



AUnSTlO EMBUoiDEUt. 



m 



possible, for fear of its coming through and staining the material ; and be- 
fore pasting on cloth or velvet, it will be well to lay the pieces down where 




ARTISTIC EMBtioinSnT. 



124 

When the 

material is par- 
ticularly d e 1 i - 
cate, isinglass 
is used iustead 
of paste ; and 
the piece ap- 
plied should be 
very carefully 
smoothed b e - 
fore it is left to 
dry— as a curv- 
ed or cross-cut 
piece is apt to 
get out of its 
proper curves 
or to stretch too 
much. 

With a com- 
plicated design 
the pattern 
should be 
traced on the 
material, and 
the duplicate 
parts numbered 
that they may 
fit perfectly to- 
gether. One 
way of fasten- 
ing the edges 
down is to but- 
tonhole them 
•with a lighter 
or darker shade 
of silk than the 
material ap- 
plied. The 
veins of leaves 
are defined by 
long stitches, 
also of a light- 
er or darker 
shade. 

In the com- 
moner kinds of 
applique, cloth, 
for instance, on 




Fig. 49. 



duck, or Turkish towelling, or on cloth of another °°l°';>^^f/'^y<!^^ ^'"" 
erali; answer the purpose of keeping the pattern securely m its place. 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDER'^. 



125 



Magnificent work' is done in applique ; curtains of gold-colored satin 
with garnet velvet leaves— the edges defined with a white cord, in which a 
little blue was mingled ; cushions (if Moorish arabesques, scarlet velvet on 
white satin — the velvet edged with gold braid ; mantel-lambrequins of 
brown velvet figures on a groundwork ol dead-gold ; these suggest endless 
variations, which a little taste and some eye for color may make beautiful 
in the extreme. 

Ivy leaves are especially satisfactory in this kind of work ; and so is any 
laro-e clearly-defined figure. The accompanying illustration will be found 
useful for a bordering. The leaves and flowers are made of crimson cloth 
— the stems and veiuings 
of black embroidery silk. 
This would be very ef- 
fective on a gray ground ; 
but any color both of 
clot I and silk may be 
used. It would be par- 
ticulai'ly pretty for a bas- 
ket or a table-cover. 

A LAMBREQUIN IN AP- 
PLIQUE. 

Beautiful combinations 
may be made with white, 
scarlet, and blue cloth, 
embroidered with black, 
gold - colored, and ma- 
roon silks, in feather- 
stitch and poiut-russe — 
which are the principal Tig. 50. 

stitches used in this kind 

of work. For small lambrequins, to decorate baskets and brackets, such 
combinations are very effective ; and the illustration shows a particularly 
pretty one. 

The upper part of the lambrequin is of white cloth cut in points, and 
pinked in a small pointed pattern ; the under part, of which the points are 
larger and pinked in scollops, is of garnet color. On the white points are 
star-like flowers with buds of blue cloth; and on the claret-colored ones, 
the same in pink cloth — ornamented with point-rnsse stitches of silk to 
match. The middle of each flower is a round piece of yellow cloth fasten- 
ed with point-russe stitches of red silk. The stems and sprays are done in 
stalk, chaiu, and feather stitches of light green silk. 

The diirk points have, near the pinkinp:, a line of twisted button-hole 
stitches in maize-colored silk — and the light points have a similar line of 
red silk. Both are also ornamented with steel beads. 
^ A handsome tobacco pouch may be made from the illustrations, which 
represent the two patterns used — each side being duplicated. 

Four such pieces are cut out of crimson or scarlet cloth, and worked in 
applique. In the first one, the chain-stitch border (not the outer edge) is 
worked with green silk. The knot from which the different articles are 
suspended is done with black silk; the cigar-case is of yellow cloth; the 
cigars are worked in satin-stitch witli brown silk. The case has two bands 
of chain-stitch in blue t<ilk, and ia edged all round with button-hole stitch 
in the same color. The pipes are of white cloth shaded with long stitcheg 




126 ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

of gray silk, and edged with yellow. The upper part of the pouch is of 
blue cloth, with white silk edging and yellow dots; the under part of brown 
cloth, with black edging and a pattern worked in chain-stitch with white; 
the three tassels are embroidered with black and yellow silk. 

In the second pattern, the outer border is yellow, the knots black; tlic 
small pattern at the top is of blue cloth edged with yellow ; the pipes 
of white clotli edged wiih blue and shaded with gray. The bundle of cigars 
is ot brown cloth shaded with black stitches, and fastened on with double 
rows of chain-stitch in yellow silk. The cigar-case is of light green cloth 
edged wiih white; the Grecian pattern and dots are embroidered over it 
with white silk also. 

To make the pouch up, join the four pieces together by seams — which 
are concealed by gold braid, cut out also and join four similar pieces of 
kid for the lining; fasten this to the outside at the top only. Sew small 
brass rings around the top, and run a double piece of crimson silk cord 




Fig. 51.— Border in Applique. 

through them. Put silk tassels of various colors at the bottom of the pouch 
and at each of its four corners. 

Apppopriate devices for needlebooUs, work-baskets, toilet-boxes, etc., 
may be made from these suggestions ; and there is no reason why the 
small articles in daily use should not be as complete and artistic in their 
way as more pretentious undertakings. Many who cannot attempt large 
pieces of work will appreciate these small patterns. 

Figure 55 gives a quarter of a very handsome lamp-mat in application 
and embroidery. 

The foundation is a square piece of olive-green cloth, on which is ap- 
plied a rim of pale-blue cloth two inches wide. The edge is bordered witli a 
thread of dark-blue and light-brown zephyr woi'sted, which is overcast on 
the foundation with fawn-colored silk floss. 

Having transferred the outlines of the design to the rim and to the olive- 
green cloth foundation, as shown in the illustration, work the buds in the cen- 
ter of the foundation with pale pink and liyht yellow bourette worsted — ■ 
and the calyxes with reseda worsted, in two shades, in diagonal button- 
bole stitch ; the loops of which meet in the middle of each leal, forming the 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 127 

vein. The vines are worked in herring-bone stitch with old gold-colored 
filling silk. Chain stitches of similar silk define the stems. 

On the blue cloth, the flowers are worked with piuk and yellow bourette 




Fio. 52. 



worsted in two shades ; and the leaves and calyxes with olive and reseda 
worsted, in several shades, in diagonal button-hole stitch. The vines and 
Bteflis are worked in chain stitch with yellowish-browu filling silk in three 



128 ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

shades. The calyxes are defined with satin-stitches of light yellow fill- 
ing silk, which are edged with chain-stitches of dark yellow silk. 

The rim is embroidered in point-russe with light-brown double zephyr 




Fig. 53. 



worsted in the manner shown in the illustration. For the trimming 
on the outer edge of the mat, overcast a thread of yellow-brown and a thread 
of light yellow double zephyr worsted in double rowa with dark and light 



ARTISTIC EMBROlDEltf. 129 

yellow silk floss on the foundation in scallops— fill the interval with knotted 
stitches of pale pink worsted, and border the scallops alternately with a 
short button- hole stitch of old gold-colored filling silk. Trim the pinked 




Fig. 54. 



edge of the foundation with tassels of worsted in the colors of the em- 
broidery. 

These pretty borders may also be used as strips for afghans and cliair- 
covers. 



130 AUTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 

For Figure 56, a strip of blue cloth an inch and a quarter wide ia placed 
on a foundation of ecru linen ; and through the middle ia run a white braid 
with horizontal stitches of green, vertical stitches of yellow-brown, and 
cross-stitches of piuk worsted. The blue strip is bordered on br,th sides 
with dark-green worsted braid, sewed on wit)i a cross-stitch ot hght-gieeu 
worsted which is wound with maroon worsied. Diagonal stitches of light 




Fig. 55.-DESIGN for Lamp Mats.-Application Embroidekt. 

and dark red worsted, crossed with horizontal stitches of dark-blue worsted, 
border the braid on the ontside. v • , , „» „^i«^ 

The border in Figure 57 is made also of ecra hnen, on which claret-color- 
ed braid three-quarters of an inch wide is basted On the latter dark- 
green braid a quarter of an inch wide is fastened with a cross seam of white 
split filli..g silk, caught down witl. black. Tl.e crossed stitches on the 
inner edge of the maroon braid are in blue and gold-the pomt-russe 
Btitohes bevond in scarlet and blacl;. -, u-t „i n, ™uu 

lu the uiiddle of the border, apply round pieces of white cloth with 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 131 

point-rusee stitches of green silk ; and connect them with vertical stitches 
of maroon, which are fastened on the foundation at the middle with cross 
stitches of the game color. 

KEY-BAG IN APPLIQUE AND EMBROIDERY. 

Both sides of this handsome key-bag are given in Figures 58 and 59. It 
is made of gray kid and liued with gray silk. 

On one side is embroidered a key formed of poppies, with their leaves 
and stems ; and at the tup of the key is perched an owl. The poppies 
are worked with five shades of blue-green silk ; the plumage of the owl 
with four sliades of brown silk— the shades all blending almost impercep- 
tibly together. The owl's eyes are. worked in scarlet and white silk. 

Tlie other side of the bag has apphque figures of steel-colored silk in the 
form of a Gothic lock. They may be edged either with gold cord or with 




Fig. 5G. — Application Border. 

fine gray silk cord. The screens are done in satin-stitch with silver gray 
silk. 

After lining each side, the two parts of the bag are joined with a border 
of ^ray ribbon, continued around the whole as in the illustrations. It is 
stitched on with fine gray silk. The bag is fastened with a steel button 
and a silk loop. 

Figures 60 and 61 are rich border patterns suitable for table-covers, mats 
and brackets. The embroidery is in button-hole, point-russe stitches and 
knots ; the veiuiug of the leaves in Figure 60 in stalk-stitch and long era- 
broidery stitch. The color can arranged to suit the taste of the worker. 

J SILK APPLIQUE WORK. 

This is principally used for flowers and leaves ; and when care is taken 
in shading, the effect is almost if not equal to embroidery. 

The pansy is one of the easiest flowers to imitate in this way — the two 
upper petals being made of purple silk, and the lower ones of violet, or 
yellow ; with the edges button-holed round, aud a few long stitches put in 
by way of veining. 

Bose petals may be beautifully done by selecting silk of the prevailing 



132 



ARTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



hue of the petal, and shading with fine embroidery or split filling silk. 
Stalks and tendiils and leaf-veinings are worked with embroidery Bilk. 

A cluster of apple-blossoms is very pretty in this kind of work ; and may 
be done on a ground of pale- blue, gray, or olive. Satin or velvet would 
make a very handsome foundation. So delicate a piece of work should 
be done with great care ; and besides the edging in button-hole and the 
long stitches in ombroidery-silk, delicate shading is done with filling silk. 

The main stems and tendrils are worked in stalk-stitch with green and 
brown embroidery-silk ; where the stems join flower or bud, and for other 
little finisliing touches, satin-stitch is used. The centres of the blos- 
soms are ol yellow silk in knot- stitch and common embroidery-stitch. 

Silk is sometimes applied on lace wiih good effect ; and the finest speci- 
men known of this work is the beautiful shawl made for the Empress Eu- 
genie, and for some time past on exhibition at Stewart's. Seen through its 




Fig. 57. — Application Bobdeb. 



glass-case, it is a marvel of coloring and truth to nature ; the roses almost 
perfume the air, and the graceful droop of the wistaria in the centre is per- 
fect. This piece of art-needlework fully deserves its name, and is valued 
at $100,000 ; but it is a question if all that weary labor with those minute 
pieces of silk (so joined on the under side that the points of meeting can be 
seen only through a magnifying-glass), to say nothing of the cobweb-lace 
foundation (also hand-made), could possibly be remunerated with money. 

CRETONNE-WOEK. 

The subject of applique could not be exhausted without some reference 
to this popular branch of it— which, when new, was considered the most 
bewitching fancy work ever invented. 

The most desirable flowers and figures for cretonne-work are to be found 
in the fine, soft, French cretonne ; and the most tiresome part of the work 
is that which has to be done first— the careful cutting out of these figures 
with a sliarppair of scissors. They are then to be gummed, or fastened 
with a few stitclies done with fine cotton on the foundation. Much basting 
is not desirable, as it pulls the material and frays the applied work. 

Black satin is a very effective foundation for cretonne-work, as it throws 



AR TISTl a EMB liOlDER Y. 



m 



tont all the bright and delicate colors ; and farmer's-aatiu answers very nice- 
ly. Solt gray and blue silesia are often very satisfactory for this purpose ; 
and a work-basket, made 
by the writer, of gray sile- 
sia, with pink rusebuds 
and leaves in cretonne- 
work on each panel, and 
lined with blue silesia, 
quite exceeded her expec- 
tations. 

Workers differ about the 
best methods of doing cre- 
tonne applicaiion ; some 
suggesting for the edge a 
loose button-hole of ratiier 
fine silk, on the plea that 
this prevents raggedness 
and answers the purpose 
of making the work sub- 
servient to the application. 
But the most approved 
method is to treat the cre- 
tonne merely as a design 
and a guide to color— 
covering the flowers and 
leaves almost entirely with 
S|ilit floss and embroidery 
silk. A thick outline in 
satin stitch secures the 
edges ; and the leaves be- 
sides being veined ai-e fre- 
quently ornamented with 
small French knots, or 
short backstitches. Flower 
centres are done in French 
knots. 

Chairs and mantels may 
be handsomely ornament- 
ed by a rich stripe of cre- 
tonne-work in pink or red 
roses on a black satin 
ground ; and table-cover 
bordei'iugs may be made 
in the same way, and at- 
tached to the main body. 
Sofa - cushions, foot - rests, 
portfolios, and many other 
tilings, may be decorated 
in the same way. 

The simpler kinds of ap- 
plique - work have been 
made very common by tlie 
immense number of aui» Ym, 58. 




194 



A 1i TIS TIC EMBnO TDSR Y. 



mals, insects and figures, such as vrere never seen in earth, air, or sea, ex- 
posed for sale in all the fancy shops, and offering easy inducements to ama- 
teurs to fasten tliem in al- 
most any way upon what- 
ever material their fancy 
might dictate. The Turk- 
isli- towelling fever rsiged 
throughout the length and 
brt-adth of the land ; and . 
although a little of this 
work, when well done, is 
very effective in a cottage 
parlor, it has been carried 
to such an excess, and 
much of it so bunglingly 
done, that there is a very 
general pusliing of it aside 
for something newer. 

Dragons and Chinamen, 
the most popular figures 
for this kind of work, were 
never known to infest Tur- 
key ; and whatever else 
we are in fancy-work, it is 
desirable to be harmoni- 
ous. Rich araViesques in 
colored cloth of the true 
Oi'iental hues, edged with 
black to give them greater 
bri lliancy on the pale brown 
groundwork, would be far 
more in character ; and 
the inevitable ruche of 
scarlet braid should be 
toned down to a more 
quiet red, or whatever col- 
or is most suitable as the 
key-note. 

We may be artistic even 
with Turkish-towelling and 
cloth application ; but un- 
less we are this, let us not 
be ornamental. 

CRAPE PICTCKE APPLIQUE. 

Among the newest ma- 
terials for application-work 
are those preposterous rep- 
resentations on a ground 
of crinkly material known 
as Chinese pictures. These 
are of various sizes, and 
Fig. 59, ^^e found now in most of 




AUTISTIC EMBROIDERY. 



135 



the fancy storea ; and although they usually defy all the rules of reason 
and of color, they are, neverthelees, highly ornamental. 

One of these works of art is before us now, divided into four compart- 
ments by bands of bright yellow, and tending generally to ornithology on 




FiQ. 60.— Boeder in Applique. 



original principles. Two skies are pink, one green, and one yellow ; sur- 
rounded by the pink sky, a small bird of the sparrow order, with notorious- 
ly short legs and unwebbed feet, is walking at ease on some lead-colm-ed 
water, while a small forest of foliage springs apparently from his back ; un- 




Fig. 61.— Boeder in Applique. 



der the yellow sky, a maize-colored bird on an inky bough opens his mouth 
evidently at a mulberry a few feet below him. Nemesis is upon him, how- 
ever, in the shape of a silkworm that is atiempting to climb his back. The 
best that can be said of the mulberries is that they are deeply, darkly, un- 



136 AUTISTIC EMBROIDEMY. 

mistakably purple ; and we know them for mulberries because they ai'e 
purple, aud because the green leaf cannot be iutt-uded for anything else. 

The other divisions are perfectly harmonious ; aud as an art-study, thia 
" bit of color " would not be recommended. Skilfully applied, however, and 
" touched up " with embroidery, it would be found very ornamental. 

Many ol these pictures have Cijinese or Japanese figures on them ; aud 
the confused coloring is best brought out by a frame-work of black velvet 
ribbon. They make pretty tidies sewn ou gray Java canvas, with a bor- 
dering of black velvet from two to three inches wide embroidered in feather- 
stitch— and beyond that an equal width of the canvas worked in a sort of 
mosaic pattern in poiut-russe with floss- silks— then a fringe of the canvas, 
with the different colored silks mixed in, about two inches deep. 

Lace is often used as a trimming for these tidies, but it is very unsuita- 
ble. Long embroidei-y stitches of silk, as in cretonne-work, improve these 
pictures very much ; and many of them are so brightly colored in themselves, 
that they are as decorative as Chinese fans. They may be used for a vari- 
ety of purposes ; and applied on black velveteen, make handsome hang- 
ings for mantels. 

LINEN APPLIQUK. 

Handsome embroidery is sometimes done by working the design on linen, 
and then applying it to richer materials. The embroidery, when finished, 
is " backed " by paper before taking it from the frame, to give it firmness ; 
when quite dry, it is taken out aud cut carefully round the figures with a 
sharp pair of scissors, leaving about a sixteenth of an inch as a margin. It 
must then be laid on the material and tacked down, if the latter is loose — 
if it is framed, the piece of embroidery should be fastened on it by small 
pins thrust perpendicularly through it. It must then be carefully secured 
by sewing it over in small stitches. 

The linen edge is covered by a gold or silver cord, fastened down with 
fine silk matching the cord in color. It is well to paint the back of the em- 
broidery with paste, that the ends of silk may be secured. 

A great deal of Eastern embroidery has the look of applied work — being 
done in the long embroidery-stitch in regular lines from east to west, or 
across the shape to be filled, instead of from north to south; no attempt 
being made to follow the natural lines of the leaf or flower. 

This style has a rich effect in purely conventional forms, but is not suit- 
able for floral designs ; a line of black or gold around the figures is nearly 
always used. We saw some Cretan work lately, that was several hundred 
years old, done in this way with silk aud a sort of flat gold thread on coarse 
linen ; and the effect was vei"y gorgeous. 



CHAPTER X. 

EMBROIDEKY IN CHENILLE. 

At one time chenille was all the fashion. Its beautiful, velvety appear- 
ance, and the soft brightness of its colors, made it very effective ; but it was 
an expensive material, and would only bear the most delicate usage. 

Silk hand-screens were frequently embroidered with chenille ; and in 
some old-fashioned mansions, such an article of the shape of Figure 62 may 
be found even now. 

To do a "piece" in chenille was quite a necessary part of a young lady's 
education ; and these pieces were treated like Miss Linwood's paintings in 



AkTiSTIC EJttBkOtDEkY. 



13? 



crewels. They usually represeuted landscapes ; and handsomely formed, 
and protected by a glass, were hung in a place i/f honor, as a sort of cei titi- 
cate that the worker was eLiitled to be pronounced huished. 

A performance of this kind that is uow cherished as an heirloom, the 
work of somebody's great-grandmother, consumed a hundred dollars' 
worth of chenille. It is a mourning-piece : a tomb and two weeping figures 
in the foreground, the country 
church, and graveyard. It is very 
smooth, beautiful work, and has 
tlie effect of a painting. 

Chenille is still used iu a meas- 
ure for small, ornamental articU-s ; 
and no material represents moss so 
well. It is suitable both for flat 
and raised embroidery ; and it may 
be worked on a variety of materials ; 
but those with smooth surfaces are 
best suited to its velvet-like appear- 
ance. 

A needle with a round eve is the 
proper kind for embroidering with 
chenille, and this should be large 
enough not to fray the thread. As 
it is an expensive material, it should 
be used economically ; and all waste 
at the back should be avoided by 
bringing the needle close up to the 
last stitch and not crossing it 
on the under side. It is easy to 
measure or guess the length of ttie 

needleful required for working each particular part, and to cut it as 
short as possible, to prevent the using of the same position again, and also 
to draw a very small piece through the eye of the needle. 

The necessity of making knots may be avoided by working a small 
stitch or two in the part intended to be covered. 

In shaded embroidery, the stitches should not be matted too closely to- 
gether, as this destroys the velvety appearance of tlie chenille. It should 
be more closely shaded than silk embroidery ; at least six shades should 
be used in flowers and leaves. 

In flat embroidery, the stitches should be regular, but no closer than to 
allow the chenille to lie roundly on the surface. It is always pretty edged 
or mixed with gold. 




Fig. 62.— Hand-Sceeen in 
Chenille. 



THE NURSERY. 

By £FFIE W. MENRIMAS. 
CHAPTEK I. 

PEE-NATAL INFLUENCES. 

Herbert Spencer deplored tiie act that, wliile tbe raising of fine cattle 
was considered a subject on which men of wealth and education might prof- 
itably spiud much time, thought and money, the bringing up of tine human 
beings was not deemed worthy of attention. There has been a great change 
in that respect, however, and more especially during the last few years. 
The interest of thoughtful people has been awakened ; books on child- 
culture have been written, and the establishment of successful periodicals 
devoted to the subject is, perhaps, a still better indication of the drift of 
current thought toward a held of i esearch full of promise to the investi- 
gator, and affirdiug great opportunity for development. 

Statistics tell an appalling tale of infant mortality, especially in our cit- 
ies, yet is read as iudifierently as if human life were worthless. Science 
says that the average man does not live one-fourth the days that he should 
live. The laws of life go to show that all animals, which die of old age, 
live at least five times as many years as are required to mature their skele- 
tons. Modern physiologists claim that it requires thirty years to mature 
the bumau skeleton, and yet late statistics show that the average life of 
man is less than thirty-five years. Tlie loss of a part of the remaining hun- 
dred and fifteen years is supposed to be due to climatic and atmospheric 
influences, for which, of course, man is not responsible ; but it is a fact 
that many children are born to die because robbed of their birthright — the 
vitality which would enable them to live— by sensual, selfish, thoughtless, 
ignorant or degraded parents. 

Dr. Holmes once said that any child could be permanently cured of 
every ill if the doctor were only called in time. 

" How is one to know when he should be called ?" queried a listener. 

" Call him two hundred years before the child is born," was the reply. 

The question of long life should not be the only one taken into consid- 
eration by the philosopher who has decided that the culture of the human 
race is a subject worthy of study ; for, though the story of infant mortality 
is a sad one, a sadder fact is given ns in the knowledge that the world 
would be better to-day if manv who are living had died in their infancy. 
The philosopher is now brought face to face with the doctrine of heredity, 
the subject of pre-natal influence, and the rock of conjecture as to the rela- 
tion of the moral, mental and physical elements of man, and how great a 
share of blame should rest on physical ailments when considering moral 
deformities. 

The doctrine of heredity is of unknown antiquity. Ancient history i$ 



THE XVRSERY. 139 

full of it. Perhaps of all nations the Jews had the strongest belief in it, 
going so far as to teach that every illness was a direct punishment for some 
sin committed in the past. They had recognized the close relationship be- 
tween the physical and tlie moral, but it is not shown that they made prac- 
tical use of their knowledge. Neither was the subject of pre-natal influence 
new to the ancients, as is shown by a study of the Scriptures. Tor this, as 
for many other of our greatest helps to human progress, we are indebted 
to tlie ancients ; but before their ideas can be made of practical value they 
must be embraced and utilized by the added knowledge and the spirit of 
progress and inquiry of the present age. A long step in the right direction 
has been taken through the earnest study of the subject of heiediiy, and in 
recent years of that of pre-natal influence, which, though closely connected 
with the former, is a distinct subject. 

One thing is certain : The child cannot inherit what his ancestors do not 
possess ; but whether by pre-natal influence he can be made superior to 
them to any great degree still remains a question. That pre-natal influence 
may modify or strengthen hereditary tendencies is no longer doubted, but 
as the subject has, as yet, hardly advanced beyond the hypotlietical sta<;e, 
practical knowledge of it must, of course, be rather limited. It is no long' r 
ignored by those who have a thoughtful interest in the welfare uf coming 
generations, and, though many of the ideas now advanced ai'e supp siti- 
tious, impracticable, and even ridiculous, yet they are the begiiming of the 
bridge that is to connect the unknown with the known, anil give to man- 
kind the most important key to human progress. If the bridge were not 
begun it would surely never be finished ; so let us be charitable towards 
ideas that we feel sure are fivlse ; study carefully those which we are doutit- 
ful of; observe thoughtfully, that we may learn ; and lieed that which has 
been proven true, remembering that each may add liis mite. That it is a 
necessary work none can doubt ; it is surprising that it was not long ago 
begun. 

The training of mothers has, for some time, been a subject for earnest 
thought, but it has been like beginning the building of the bridge too near 
the water's edge, and much of the work was in vain. In the earliest stages 
of infancy evils are discovered that the most sensible and well-tr;iined 
mothers are powerless to suppress. Many persons are obliged to suffer 
through life from causes that science only guesses at, and which no amoimt 
of intelligence seems competent to avoid, yet the time is coming when it 
will be plain. 

It is known that the girl who niflrries the man with bad habits is, in a 
measure, responsiMe for the evil tendencies which those habits have cre- 
ated in the children ; and young people are constantly warned of the dan- 
ger in marrying when they know that they come from fiimilies troubled 
with chronic diseases or insanity. To be sure the warnings have had little 
effect thus far in preventing such marriages, and it is doubtful whether 
they will, unless the prophecy of an extremist writing f >r one of our peri- 
odicals come.s to pass— that the time is not far distant when such marriages 
will be a crime punishable by law. That there is a tendency in the right 
direction must be admitted, and is, perhaps, most clearly shown in some 
of the articles on prison reform. Many of them strongly urge the necessity 
of preventive work as the truest economy, and some go so far as to say that 
if the present human knowledge of the laws of heredity were acted upon 
for a generatioD, reformatory measures would be rendered almost unnecea- 
eary. 



UO THE NURS^RV. 

Tlie mother who has ruiued her health by hite hours, highly-spiced food 
and general carelessness iu regard to hygienic laws, and the father who is 
the slave of questionable habits, will bo very sure to have children either 
mentally or morally inferior to what they might otherwise have had a right 
to expect. But the pre-natal inHuences may be such that evils arising from 
such sources may be modified to a great degree. 

I believe that pre-natal influence may do as much in the formation of 
character as all the education that can come after, and that mothers may, 
in a measure, "will" what Ihat influence shall be, and tliat, as knowledge 
on the subject increases, it will be more and more under their control. In 
that, as in everything else, things that would be possible with one mother 
would not be with another, and measures that would be successful with 
one would produce opposite results from the other. 

While discussing pre-natal influence, it will not be out of place to men- 
tion a few instances, by way of illustration, taken from the note-book of 
one who has given much thought to the subject. 

The mother of a young man, who was hung not long ago, was heard to 
say, " I tried to get rid of him before he was born, and oh, how I wish, now, 
that I had succeeded 1" She added that it was the only time she had at- 
tempted anything of the sort, but because of home troubles she became 
desperate, and resolved that her burdens should not be made greater. 
Does it not seem probable that ihe murderous intent, even though of short 
duration, was communicated to the mind of the child, and resulted in the 
crime for which he was hung ? 

Another mother was noted for brilliancy of conversation during preg- 
nancy. She was fond of telling anecdotes, and they were always worth 
listening to, though not on account of accuracy. Even when repeating 
stories that others knew of, truth was often sacrificed in order that tlie story 
might sound well. ' She is such good company " her friends said, and the 
difference in her talk was usually the first indication they had of her condi- 
tion. 

She has not one child who can tell the truth, and any story repeated as 
having come from tliat family, is immediately received with doubt. One 
child, a daughter, became painfully aware of her infirmity, and when she 
reached the years of womanhood and found herself likely to become a 
mother, her first thought was fur her child, and she silently resolved that 
she would try to live so tSiat it might not inherit her fault. Years after- 
ward, she told a friend of her experience of those few months. It was when 
talking of her boy, who was of a moody, unhappy disposition, unable to find 
much pleasure with companions, and ci'itical of the faults of others to a sur- 
prising degree in one so young. The mother was keenly alive to his faults, 
though proud of the fact that he had a strict regard for the truth. 

" I feel that it is my fault," she said, " that Bertie is so peculiar, but I 
erred through ignorance. I was so afraid of speaking an untruth that I re- 
frained from saying anything at all unless it was absolutely necessary, and 
80 kept by myself as much as possible. When I had exaggerated in relating 
an incident, I would become hopeless and despondent, and would some- 
times cry for hours about it, and so kept myself in a state of constant appre- 
hension and nervous excitement. I think I should not make such a mis- 
take again." 

That mother certainly added one more proof of the power of pre-natal 
influence ; and the world is full of such proofs. What we lack is the koowl- 
edge that will enable us to make good use of them. 



THE NURSERY. 141 

I know another mother who was morbidly conscious of a fanlt, and 
equally strong in the desire that hor unborn child might be free from it. 
She kept the thought before her constantly and nearly became insane on the 
subject, and now, though the child is less than three years of age, she shows 
that she possesses that same fault in an exaggerated degree. 

To me, these instances teach that tlje mother should not give so much 
thought to the object in view that she can think of little else ; for either her 
purpose will be defeated, or the object gained will be very likely to be coun- 
teibaliinced by some fault quite as grave. 

A woman was teaching a very unruly school during the first months of 
pregnancy. It was a number of years ago, when corporal punishment was 
considered more of a necessity than it is now, and teachers were often hired 
because of their ability to administer it. She was not a harsh-tempered wo- 
man, but she had exaggerated notions on the subject of discipline, and the 
rod was used unsparingly. In a very early period of his existence her baby 
showed iudiciitions of an ungovernable temper, which, when aroused, al- 
ways prompti'd him to strike. As he grew to manhood he was often in 
trouble on account of it, and suffered the keenest sorrow when not angry f,)r 
the things he would do and say when he was. Before the age of thirty, 
while m a rage, he struck a friend who died from the effects of the blow. 

These instances could doubtless be multiplied by thousands, could facts 
be obtained, more especially from mothers of criminals. 

In the case just mentioned, the mother gave no thought to the influence 
she might have expectei). In those days pre-natal influence was seldom 
considered except in refei-ence to physical deformities, and then more in a 
superstitious light than a philosophical one, and fright or unsatisfied long- 
ing were the agents to be warnc<l against. This mother's second child, also 
a boy, was born tliree years later. Slie has since said that the three years 
lollowmg the birth of her first child were the happiest years of her life. 
She had few cares, and no more work than she could do easily ; her sur- 
roundings were pleasant, her acquaintances congenial, and her husband 
was doing well in his business. Her second boy holds an honored position 
in the State where he lives and is well worthy of the love and esteem which 
he receives. 

A woman rode side by side with her soldier husband, and witnessed the 
drilling of troops for battle. The scene inspired her with a deep longing to 
see a battle and sliare in the excitements of the conquerors. This was but a 
few months before her boy was born, and his name was Napoleon. 

lam aware that there are many persons who would consider such illus- 
trations valneless, because there are great generals whose mothers did not 
pass through any such experience ; but one might answer that, had more 
women drilled as Napoleon's mother did, we would have more great gen- 
erals, and that argument wonld be quite as conclusive as theirs. 

It is said that Dante's mother saw a vision of wonderful grandeur and 
beauty which she could not look upon with calmness, but in the midst of it, 
as if perfectly at home in all the magnificence, stood a man whom she knew 
to be lier son. The vision in itself amounts to little, as many women know, 
who, when pregnant, are subject to strange fancies and liallncinations. 
The lesson is here : It served to impress upon her the idea of the great- 
ness of her unborn son, and so forcibly that, until he was born, she had the 
thought constantly in mind. It caused her no uneasiness. She was so sure 
of it that she was calm and happy, and without herself realizing it, every- 
thing was looked at as nearly as possible in the light that she imagined her 



142 THE NURSERY. 

gifted 8oa would see it. Who can doubt that that was one of the greatest 
factors in giving to the world a poet and scholar known throughout the 
world ? It is only one more of the many strong proofs that the magnetic 
power of the mother's mind controls, in a measure, the development of the 
unborn child. 

A worlv called "Heads and Faces" gives an illustration of tlie efifect of 
the mother's mind on the unborn child, tliat is exceedingly interesting. la 
speaking of Zerah Colburu, who was born at Gabot, Vt., in 180A and died in 
1840, and wlio, at thi- age of six years, manifested such powers of computa- 
tion as to astonish the learned world, it says : " Questions in multiplication 
of five places of figures, reduction, rule of three, compound fractious, and 
obtaining factors of large numbers, were answered with accuracy and with 
marvellous quickness. A few months before his birth, his motlier, who 
had never been taught arithmeti •, had on her mind, for a day and a night, 
a puzzling question as to how many yards of cloth a given amount of yarn 
which she had would make. To a person understanding arithmetic this 
would be a simple problem, but she had to do it by a mental process, with- 
out rule, and this extraordinary effort on her part was organized in her 
child and made him a genius in mental arithmetic, but not in mathematics. 
An attempt was made to educate him in other branches ot study, but he 
never distinguished himself nor even came up to the common average." 

These instances are not mentioned with the thought of trying to arouse 
in the mother's mind a desire to try similar experiments ; but tliat she may 
be brought to consider the subject of pre-natal influence seriously, and not 
read the injunctions given concerning her habits while pregnant, as some- 
thing whicli has very little practical value. At least they should be giv< n 
the benefit of a doubt. 

One mother, who wns usually very irritable during the months of preg- 
nancy, was told that her babies would not be so cross if she would compel 
herself to be cheerful, and to look on the bright side of life. It was a new 
idea to her. " I beljeve it is all nonsense," she said, " but it will do no 
harm to try to control myself." She did try, and now assigns it as a reason 
for the happy nature of her little girl. 

Let these instances help to teach that the mind of the prospective mother 
should dwell on subjects of a pleasant and elevating character; that she 
must not only avoid going where she will be pained or shocked by loath- 
some or pitiful sights, but should cultivate a tranquil and happy spirit, and 
spend as little lime as possible worrying about the trial in store for her. It 
cannot help but affect the child in a way not desirable when the mother 
keeps herself in a state of continual fear and agitation. To think calmly of 
the pains of childbirth is not easy, especially when the mother has had 
one experience ; and there are so many who would be much happier if they 
knew how greatly the suffering might be mitigated, that a few words on the 
care that expectant mothers should take of tbemselves will not be amiss in 
a chapter on pre-natal influence. 

Many authorities agree in teaching that the child is nourished by the 
food eaten by the mother, and that the pains of childbirth are much less- 
ened if but little bnnfi-making food has been eaten during pregnancy. A 
child may be very fleshy, but if its bones are small, the mother suffeis less 
at its birth than is the case with babies having lar^e frames. Therefore, 
there are many kinds of food containing a great quantity of bone-making 
material, which, though very wholesome under ordinary circumstances, 
are not the best foods for the expectant mother to partake of. First among 



THE NUliSERT. U3 

these we will mention the differewt preparations of corn-meal. Analysis 
shows that about one-seventieth of it is bone-making food, while rice con- 
tains only about a thouaundih part, and all kinds of fruit still less. The 
flesh of younK animals is preferable to that of older ones iu that respect ; 
but salt should be eaten sparingly, as it is nearly as bad as Indian corn ; 
and, as meat is not palatable without considerable salt, much of it should 
not be eaten. All vegetables except potatoes, corn, and beans, may be 
eaten freely. Some physicians recommend oatmeal and graham bread at 
least once a day, that the bowels may be kept regular, but as both contain 
a large per cent, of bone-making food, it is wiser to use fruit instead, which 
answers the same purpose iu most cases, and is, in every way, the Ijest food 
for the pregnant mother. Some may object to the advice given above on 
the ground that such a course would be hurtful to tlie child. Of course 
this dieting should not be carried to an extreme, nor is it likely to be in the 
majority of cases, for appetite is too strong. There is little danger that 
there will not be a sufficiency of calcareous matter contained iu other kinds 
of food, and especially in cereals not mentioned above as being objection- 
able on account of containing too much of it. 

But dieting is not all-sufficient. Hygienic laws should be observed, 
and the liealth should be carefully guarded, for healtliy women suffer less 
at childbirth than they who are sickly. It is very desirahle that the mother 
should have some useful occupation. They are re illy fortunate who have 
domestic duties to attend to, though household tasks should not be allowed 
to absorb too much of the time or attention. A part of every day should 
be devoted to suitable out-of-door recreation. The clothing should be 
loose, of uniform thickness, and suspended Irom the shoulders. It is bet- 
ter to keep early hours, thus avoiding artificial light; and no wise woman 
will be seen, at such a time, in crowded, over-heated rooms, or in places 
wiiere she will be likely to become excited. Regularity in eating, drinking 
and bathing ought to be practiced, not only for the benefit it will be to the 
mother, but also for the good effect it will be likely to have on the child. 
Above all, clieerfulness, mental composure and self-control in all thing's 
must be aimed at, and the mother should keep constantly before her mind 
the thought that she cannot now consult her own inclinations in everything, 
but must do what seems best for the helpless liitle one she is to bring into 
the world. Such directions as are given above are not hard to follow ; 
after a few days one gets quite in the habit of obeying them, when they be- 
come no trouble at all, while the gain is surely worth striving for. 



CHAPTER II. 

baby's wardrobe. 

When fashioning the garments for the little stranger, the mother must 
remember that they ought not to be a hindrance to his activity and devel- 
opment. His comfort and protection must also be taken into considera- 
tion, and finally his adornment. With too many mothers the adornment is 
the first and all-important thought, and the helpless little victim is doomed 
to complain for months, in a language not easily understood, about the 
constant annoyance to which he must submit without knowing why. Such 
a condition of things would ruin the temper of the most philosophical 
adult. It is wonderful how much misery many babies are made to bear by 
really tender-hearted mothers ! It is only a few years since the little 



Hi THE NURSERY. 

dresses were cut low in the neck and with short sleeves ; even yet we may 
occasionally see a little martyr dressed in that way. Its dress will be likely 
to measure fully a yard and a half from neck to hem, and to be so weighted 
down witli tucks and ruffles and heavy embroideries that it is a wonder 
that the baby's ankles are not deformed from the constant pressure on its 
toes, and a still greater wonder that it retains any of its natural activity, 
whicL was made manifest months before its birth. 

I have seen mothers who, noting their baby's struggle for exercise, 
would uncover the liitle feet for a time that it might kick and stretch, but 
who would not receive the slightest impression from the lesson so plainly 
taught. Such stupidity is inexcusable. If the mother could only imagine 
herself dressed in long, clumsy robes of nearly one-fourth her own weight, 
which were so burdensome that it would be difficult to tell whether it was 
worse to lie in one position until every muscle ached, or to try to move, 
what a blessing it would be to her helpless baby ! It makes one tired just 
to think of it, and an active woman would be driven wild iu a little while if 
forced to wear garments so confining. We ask, in the name of the babies, 
that the mothers do not impose greater burdens on them than they them- 
selves would be willing to bear. 

I knew one mother who had very decided opinions on the subject of 
corset-wearing, and who was earnest in her efforts to persuade her acquaint- 
ances to give up the practice. She told how she had suffered from the 
wearing of corsets, and how greatly her health had improved and her com- 
fort increased since she laid them aside. One day, when she was waxing 
nuusually eloquent on the subject, I picked up her baby who was fretting 
in its cradle. It was like taking a little round stick of wood into my arms ! 
I sat her up in my lap, and slie was as stiff and unyielding as a new, well- 
stuffed doll. I put my watch in her lap, and when she tried to bend for- 
ward to get it, she actually gasped for breath. 

" Baby is so warm," I said, " that I am goiug to loosen her clothes for a 
moment." 

I did so, and this is actually the way that poor little martyr was dressed : 
First came a shirt which was gathered into a roll around the body close 
under the arms. A cotton band reached from the arm-pits nearly to the 
hips. When first put on, it came a little below the hips, but the child could 
not remain entirely immovable, and the band had formed into wrinkles 
around the waist, and was turned up iu a little hem around the bottom. 
It was long enough to reach once and a half around the body, and was so 
piimed that one end lay along the spinal column where it would serve as 
an irritant whenever the child was laid on its back. The thick roll, which 
was turned up around the bottom where the band lapped, must have been 
particularly comforting ! The band was pinned so tightly that it was with 
diflSculty that one finger was inserted under it, in order to take out the pins, 
without scratching the baby. The little body was covered with deep, dark 
red lines nressed into the tender flesh by the firm band, which was made 
of a straight piece of strong muslin. Had it been cut bias it would not 
have been so cruel. 

The mother and her guest laughed when they saw the very evident 
satisfaction of the little one when released, and while I was rubbing the 
poor, abused little back ; but I could not imagine why they should. I felt 
more like crying, for it told so plainly of the suffering endured. 

As if that were not enough torture, there were four diapers pinned on 
the child, three of them doubled, so that the little limbs were forced so far 



THE NVRSERY. 145 

apart by tbe many folds of cloth, that it is a wonder that the hips were not 
thrown out ol joint. Tbe motlier had taken great care that the baby's fine 
dress and her own should not get wet, but she had arranged matters so 
that she could not always know when the inside diapers were wet, and the 
baby's body showed that it had often gone too long without attention. Next 
to the diapers came a pinning blanket made of white flannel, and gathered 
into a band that was fastened around baby's waist in such a way that the 
heavy seam where the baud and skirt were joined came exactly across the 
navel. It, also, was pmned tightly. "It had to be," the mother said when 
I remonstrated somewhat indigiiautly, " to keep it from slipping down." 

Next came a long flannel skirt, finished with heavy embroidery, and 
sewed to a broad band, and over that a white skirt also heavily trimmed and 
sewed to a band on which were narrow straps that extended over the 
shoulders. These straps were trimmed with embroidery, and when they 
were nicely starched anl ironed they looked lovely ; but think how the 
starched points must liave annoyed the baby ! Over all, was a beautiful 
dress, tucked and ruffled and trimmed with lace. It measured forty inches 
from the neck to the hem, and both skirts were equally as long. Now, 
think of it I The baby's hips were covered by fourteen thicknesses of cloth, 
its feet and limbs by four thicknesses, its stomach and back by eight, its 
shoulders, arms, and the upper part of the chest by one, besides a blanket 
that was sometimes on and sometimes ofi", according to the pleasure of the 
person holding the baby, not the little one's comfort. The bands were all 
pinned as nearly in the same place as possible, and so many lappings over 
the spinal column must have produced a feeling not unlike that which an 
adult would experience if trying to sleep on a broomstick 1 

Fashion for once became merciful when she decreed that the child's 
chest and arms should be covered. Of late she has again ventured a re- 
form, and there is a tendency towards less embroidery and fewer tucks. 
If she could be persuaded to take another step and favor dresses measuring 
not over twenty-seveu inches from neck to hem, how much more convenient 
it would be to handle the baby, and what a relief to the tired little feet I 

It is quite a task to dress a baby according to the old-fasbioned method 
described above, and is usually a severe tax to the child's temper and the 
mother's patience ; but, after having tried the simple fashion here recom- 
mended, a wise woman will never go back to that tedious process. 

A sensibly dressed baby will have no shirt on. The best of them do 
not stay in place, and it is impossible for a child to be comfortable with one 
on. 

The most important item of baby's wardrobe is the garment that is to 
take the place of the shirt. It is a sleeveless waist cut low in the neck, and 
fastened in front with small, flat buttons, and having larger buttons on the 
bottom of it at the back and front. To tbese buttons is to be fastened the 
outer diaper until the child is old enough to wear drawers, when more but- 
tons are to be added. The waist is to be made of firm, soft flannel, and 
worn in summer and winter. There are some skins so sensitive that the 
softest all-wool flannel irritates them, and when such is the case the waists 
should be lined with the best pieces of partly worn gauze underwear, or 
made of silk and wool flannel, which cannot possibly irritate the tenderest 
skin. It is quite expensive, but that is a consideration which should not be 
taken into account when the baby's comfort is concerned. To do so is a 
penny-wise and pound-foolish system of planning which never fails to bring 
its own punishment, 



146 THE NURSERY. 

Finish the little waists around neck and sleeves with a button hole edge 
in wash silk. An edge can be crochetted to look very much like the button 
hole stitch, and is much more quickly done. The waist should come down 
well over the hips, and fit easily. Very little fitting is requu-ed for the first 
waists, but as baby grows his clothes must be made to fit. A belt of silesia, 
Btitched on the outside at the waist line, holds the buttons firmly without 
tearing the flannel, and, as the diaper or drawers are buttoned over the 
lower part of the waist, there is no pulling apart of the two garments, leav- 
ing part of the baby uncovered. 

The outer diaper is a triumph of my own invention. It is to be made 
three-cornered witlj a button hole in the middle of the back, and another in 
the corner that comes butween the legs. It is to be put on with the corners 
that come around the waist under the other one, and tucked smoothly be- 
tween the limbs to absorb moisture, and prevent the untidy, flapping look 
that 18 often seen. The safety-pin is jjut in below the button hole, and then 
the diaper is buttoned to the waist at the Irout and back. Thus the waist is 
kept down, and the diaper is held in place, and the baby is made perfectly 
comfortable. The diapers should be made of canton fluinel, with some of 
soft old liuen for use during the first weeks of baby's life, aud a number 
made from worn sheets that are almost as soft as the linen, and more easily 
procured. They are nice for inside diapers, and are not hard to wash. 
Only two should be put on the child at a time — the inner one being folded. 

IJntil the baby is three months old, pinning blankets will be needed, or 
foot blankets as tliey are also called. They should be made of a light gray 
flannel that will stau;! being washed often. The most satisfactory one I 
ever saw was, like the outer diaper, made after a pattern not yet patented, 
and which has never '' had its picture taken," so it cannot be easily de- 
scribed. To get an ideaot it, take a piece of paper that is about twice as 
long as it is wide, and put your lead-pencil through the center of it, measur- 
ing from side to side, but considerably nearer one end than the other. If 
it were cut down the front, or shorter end, and a round piece cut out to fit 
the pencil, it could be pat on without trouble. When made of flannel in- 
stead of paper, and fitted to a baby instead of a pencil, it will be seen that 
its advantages over the old-fashioned pinning blanket are many. To begin 
with, it requireii no band, and so there is no ugly seam around the child's 
abdomen, and no unnecessary band around its waist. Then it can be easily 
and quickly foldod btck so as to form a protection for the dress, and so 
smooth that the folds will not be annoying. There is no extra fullness at 
tlie sides to tuck in where it is not wanted, and the back is enough longer 
than the front to bring over and pin, as a protection to the feet. If wide 
flannel is used, no seams will be necessary. It can be plainly finished with 
a binding, and is to be fistened in front with one safety-pin. 

Pinning blankets may be made in another way that will not cut into the 
flannel so badly, which is quite an item to some mothers, in view of the fact 
that the garment i^ worn for so short a time. A perfectly straight piece of 
flannel is laid in a deep box-pleat at one end, the pleats being stitched down 
for two or three inches to form a sort of band. The box-pleat must be large 
enough to reach clear across the baby's buck, or it will be uncomfortable. 
Tapes are fastened an inch or two from the edge, that the garment may 
meet in front when tied ; a pliin hem across the bottom completes it. It is 
very ea-ilv aud simply made, and is preferable in every way to those which 
are "gathered into the belt ; but is not so g lod as the one before mentioned. 
Next comes the flannel skirt. This should be a modified princess garment, 



THE NURSERY. 147 

out Ligh in the neck and with long sleeves. It is sometimes made in a 
" Mother Hubbard" style, but they are clumsy in flannel and are too loose 
for warmth. Many mothers object to havini; any of the baby clothes but- 
toned in front, principally because they do not look so " cunning." If they 
are sensible, however, they will make at least two of the skirts in that way, 
for baby's first wear, and, when they come to dress the limp little thing 
they will see the wisdom of it. It is also a good plan to cut the skirt from 
the waist part, just below the waist line, bind the edges of both pieces, fur- 
nish tbe waist with small flat buttons and the skirt with button holes, and 
button them together. Then, when the skirt becomes soiled it can be re- 
moved and replaced by another, without completely undressing the child. 
It is better, however, not to cut the skirt until the child is too old to wear 
pinning blankets, as it will not be necsssary until then, and the extra seams 
add to the little one's discomfort. 

If embi'oidery is used on the skirts the simplest patterns should be 
chosen. To me, however, trimmed clothing on a young baby looks ridicu- 
lous. A cotton skirt is unnecessary, except on dress occasions, and there 
should be none of those until the baby is three months old at least. 

The little slip comes next. This may be made in either a princess or 
Mother Hubbard style. If the latter is selected, the yoke should never 
come beneath the arms, as it is apt to fit too closely, and is not very com- 
fortable however loose it may be. 

For the first three months the child should wear no dress at all. Instead, 
provide loose wrappers of cambric made plainly and buttoned in front. Be 
sure that they are quite wide across the back, so that the arms can be easily 
put into the sleeves. 

Dress the baby every morning, putting on a fresh wrapper, allowing 
him to sleep in it at night, thus avoiding a change of dress when he is tired 
with a long day's handling. 

A woman having a very small amount of ingenuity can cut all the little 
garments, even to a cloak, with but one good princess pattern to serve as a 
guide in size, and as to neck and arm holes. 

By the time baby is three or four months old, he will have outgrown the 
wrappers, and will be strong enough to be undressed at night. Then he 
•will need flannel nightgowns for night wear, and slips tor the day time. 
The flannel nightgowns should be worn summer and winter. Make them 
very large around the neck and arm holes, and bind the neck and wrists 
with soft silU. Be sure that the sleeves are large enough to be perfectly 
comfortable. When the child gets large enough to kick off the bed clothing, 
fasten his nightgown so that he cannot become completely uncovered or 
put him into night drawers and stockings combined. 

The seams of all the flannel garments should be sewed by hand, and 
with silk, then opened and caught down with the silk so as to be as flat as 
possible, and silk or soft cotton sliould be used for the neck binding. 

A flannel dressing gown is a garment indispensable to baby's comfort. 
It is to be slipped on over his nightdress when he is taken up in the morn- 
ing before mamma wishes to bathe and dress him, and is best made of 
dress flannel that will wash nicely and not soil too easily. For summer wear 
the dressing gown may be made of sateen, when the baby wears flannels 
nightdresses, and is often made double — the lining contrastins; prettily 
with the outside. Colors should always be chosen that do no not fade 
easily. Baby's nightdress is usually damp in the morning, and the dressing 



148 THE NURSERY. 

gown serves the double purpose of pre venting him from taking a chill, and 
making him less unpleasant to hold. 

It is very pretty made in the Mother Hubbard style, long enough to tuck 
up arouud the little feet, and fastened at the yoke with three buttons, and 
ai'ouud the waist with a cord and tassels, loosely tied. 

Now, with a bathing blanket, shoulder blanketni, and bed comforts or 
pads, the layette is complete. Layette siguities baby linen ; but the word is 
now used by those who advocate dress reform for baliies, to designate that 
part of the baby's wardrobe which is made before his arrival, and intended 
for wear dux'iug the first mouths of his life. 

The bathing blanket is simply a large piece of sott flannel in which baby 
is to be wrapped as soon as he is taken from the bath, to insure against his 
becoming chilled. It should be at least four feet square, and is better to be 
six feet, for it will be needed uutil the child is in his third year, and it must 
be so large that it will not fall away and leave the little wet body exposed 
to the cold air, when a part of it is removed in order to use the drying 
towel. If two widths of the material are used, sew the seam '■ over hand" 
and loosely, so as not to leave an ugly ridge to annoy the bare skiu. 

Regarding the shoulder blankets— it is customary to make them of a very 
nice piece of white flannel, or of white cashmere, and to trim them elabor- 
ately. I have seem them so richly embroidered that only a small square of 
the plain goods was visible in the center. Now I wish I sould imprass on 
mothers' mimls the foolishness of wasting time and strength and money in 
such worli ! It is worse than thrown away. To begin with, the blanket is 
not necessary except during the first two months, and then it is an article of 
use, not of ornament, serving as a meiius of handling the tiny creature with 
greater ease and safety, and to protect the head and back of the neck from 
draughts. When baby becomes large enough to rebel against such confine- 
ments, and the blanket is off quite as often as it is on him, it does more 
harm than good, as he is apt to be covered when the room is too warm for 
comfort, and uncovered when some thoughtless person has left the door 
open. "When such a state of affairs exists the blanket should be laid aside, 
and used only when, in carrying the baby from one room to another, he 
must go through a hall or room of a temperature very different from that to 
•which he has been accustomed. A mother who has had experience knows 
how very soon a blanket used in that way becomeH soiled, and how badly it 
looks, enpecially if it be one of the embroidered affairs over which young 
women delight in ruining their eyesight. Certainly, during the first few 
weeks of baby's Ufe, when he should not be seen except by relatives and tlie 
most intimate friends, an elaborate blanket is neither necessary nor desir- 
able. As a rule it is laid in the bureau drawer to be shown to admiring 
visitors, and the baby is wrapped in any piece of flannel that happens to be 
handy, and which can be easily washed— quite an item in its favor, as it is 
so often soiled. 

Be reasonable I young mothers, do be reasonable ! Use your eyes in 
reading some favorite author, or in admiring the beauties of nature,— you 
can take a great many morning walks during the time that would be spent 
in making that handsome blanket. Provide some plain squares of white 
merino if you can get it, or of nice white flannel, and bind them with silk 
that will wash. There is a salmon colored silk that washes well, and is 
very delicate and pretty. Have three of the blankets, so that they may be 
wnshed often, for a baby wearing a sour-smelling blanket is not nice to 
handle. It will not be an extravagance, for when the blankets are no long- 



TM xniiSERf. 149 

or useful as such, they cau be used to good advantaj,'e in making other 
cloihin" for baby. Moreover, counting time and everything, the first coat 
of the three will be no greater than for the one elaborate bhiuket, and you 
will have the satisfaction of knowing that baby is not made uncomfortable 
by the lumpy leaves and flowers and stars of embroidery. Now here is an- 
other little item of advice that I do not expect will be lollowed except by 
the most sensible of mothers. K your servant does not thoroughly under- 
stand how to wash white flannel without causing it to become stiff, and 
shrunken and yellow, and you cannot teach her, then be wise and select 
your blankets from softly tinted goods. They are really very pretty, and 
have been admired even by the ladies who think that babies should always 
be dressed in white. 

In washing baby's flannels never use soap of any kind ; they should not 
be allowed to become so soiled as to make it necessary to do so. Never let 
them lie around after having heen removed ; as they are not to be washed 
with other clothes, they need not wait until the regular wash day, and it is 
a good plan to Wiish them at once ; but if that plan cannot be carried out, 
be sure to put them where they will be exposed to the air, and will not 
gather dirt. Use water just lukewarm, having the washing and rinsing 
water of the same temperature. Sliake the flannel well before putting it in 
water, and have enough dissolved borax in the first water to make it feel 
very soft, also putting a little in the rinsing water. Bluing may or may not 
be a<Uled according to preference. However, if the flannel inclines to the 
creamy tint, it is made of a dirty, greenish hue by being dipped in bluing 
water. Eemember that the more quickly the washing, rinsing and drying 
is done, the more satisfactory will be the result. 

These last suggestions, while not exactly pertinent to the making of 
baby clothes, yet may prove helpful to the mother who wishes to dress her 
little one all in white. 

The best pad is a necessity that is provided in very few layettes. It 
shoultl be made ot a square of unbleached muslin, thickly padded with cot- 
ton battmg, and securely tacked. It is to lay under the baby at night to 
protect the bedding, and should be so thick as to ab^^orb all moisture. That 
renders unnecessary the putting on of so many diapers, tliat are as un- 
healthful as they must be uncomfortable. Let us now have a little rexume 
of the subject of the layette in such form that it will be of nse to the little 
woman who is inexperienced, far from mother, and as afraid to ask the 
advice of friends as she is nervous for fear that everything will not be ex- 
actly right. 

People are becoming more sens ble now in the matter of the layette as 
in that of the trousseau, and ridiculous extravagance is no longer aimed 
at. All that is desirable is suflBcient clothing to keep the baby sweet and 
clean without too much work, and by getting nlong with fewer garments 
during the first weeks of his existence, a more complete wardrobe can be 
had when he begins to appear in company. This will be found to be a very 
economical and satisfactory plan, and we will assume that the little layette 
is to be provided with that object in view. 

There should be three waists ; one dozen outside diapers ; one dozen 
inside diapers of canton flannel, and a dozen each made of soft old table 
linen, and of worn sheets ; three pinning blankets ; four flannel skirts ; 
seven wrappers ; one dressing gown (when soiled it can be washed and 
dried during the day) ; three shoulder blankets ; one bathing blanket, and 
six bed pads. A number of those will be necessary because they require 



150 THE NtTRSEltY. 

60 long a time iu wLich to become thoroughly dry after having been 
washed ; and they should never be hung up and dried after using, until 
tliey are washed. Sucli a practice is not cleanly, to say the least. 

There should be provided several soft little comforts of cheese-cloth 
padded with a layer of the best cotion battin;?, then tied with pink or blue 
or scarlet wool, and made pretty with a crochetted edge of the same. These 
little comforts are haudy to use in many ways, besides being light, inex- 
pensive, and easily made. They are needed to throw over baby when he 
sleeps, or to protect the dress of a visitor who wishes to hold him, or to 
wrap around him when he insists on being taken out of bed before the 
room lias become sufficiently warm. 

A toilet basket is almost as necessary a part of the layette as the baby's 
clothes, as it saves many steps, and hastens the process of dressing, which 
most babien object to so decidedly. To make it, procure a large, shallow 
basket, and cover it with pretty paper muslin. Sew it to the sides of the 
basket around the top. Cat a piece of pasteboard to fit exactly into the 
bottom of the basket ; cover that also with the paper cambric, and press it 
into place. It should fit so closely as to hold the cambric covering the 
sides of the basltet firmly down without its being sewed to the bottom. 
Over all put dotted Swiss muslin in pleats, or shirred, or plain, as pre- 
ferred. Turn the outside piece so as to form a hem at the bottom, then 
gather it into a ruffle, having just deep enough to touch the table. Put the 
muslin on the sides of the basket before putting the bottom piece in place. 
Edge the top and bottom of the basket with narrow lace, or if preferred, a 
narrow ruche of i-ibbon to match the paper cambric. In one corner of the 
basket put a pocket of oiled silk for the sponge. Arouud the top of the 
pocket sew a piece of bonnet wire to hold it open. In the center of each 
side have pockets of Swiss muslin, drawn in and tied with narrow ribbons. 
They will be found very useful, and are highly ornamental. In either end 
have a small square cushion edged with lace and fastened on with a bow. 
The cushions should be stuffed with curled liair, or some equally light sub- 
stance, that the basket may not be too heavy. Furnish the basket with 
a soft hair-brush, safety pins, a powder puff, and a nice little soap dish 
with a tightly-fitting cover — for no one else must be allowed to use the 
baby's soap. 

Quite pretty toilet baskets are made of the long, narrow baskets that 
peaches or grapes come in ; they are covered in the same way. 

Not until the layette is made and laid away, and the first clothes that 
baby is to wear made into a bundle by tliemselves, and put where they can 
be found at a moment's notice, should attention be given to the garments 
tliat will be worn later on. Indeed, it is not necessary that they should be 
begun at all until the little stranger has become a recognized member of 
the household, nor is it wise unless the mother is in need of some such oc- 
cupation to keep her from becoming nervous. 

No little dresses or slips were mentioned in enumerating the articles for 
the layette, but it is understood that the mother is going to dress her baby 
in the nice, plain, neat little wrappers day and night ; these must be pro- 
vided for the second quarter of baby's first year, and there will be a great 
difference of opinion regarding tlie fashion of making them. It really 
should depend a great deal on the baby, and that is one reason why it is 
wiser not to make them until you know what manner of baby he is. There 
are some babies so strong and active that they are better off and more 



TSE NVnsERT. 151 

easily cared for if put into slmrt clothes at tliree mouths of age — that in, 
providing the weather is warm, or the house is of even temperature. 

As baby grows older and is handled more by the other members of the 
family, and especially when he becomes old enough to be on the floor, he 
will require a more frequent change of clothing. It is wise to make the 
little garments so large that they will not be outgrown long before they are 
worn out. If long slips are to replace the first little wrappers, they should 
be so made that they will only need a tuck or two to change them into 
Bhort dresses later on. Cambric, nainsook, linen lawn and mull are all 
used for slips ; the first two for eveiy-day wear, and the linen lawn and 
mnll for best. They maybe finished with tucks, a plain hem, lace, or a 
rufiBe of fine embroidery, according to fancy. There should be no stiff 
rufHes or embroideries around the neck, and heavy trimmings anywhere 
on the httle garments are no longer considered in good taste, and are used 
mostly by the vulgar. It gives me great saiisfaction to write that, for it is 
such good news for the babies ! But mothers must fuss a little over the 
cucning wardrobe, as Dame Fashion decrees that every garment shall be 
made by hand ; no ugly machine-stitched seams are to be allowed ; in- 
stead, tlie daintiest stitches, set by loving fingers, and as much unneces- 
sary needlework besides, in the way of ornamentation, as the mother 
wishes to do, but noihing heavy. 

A very convenient gaiment is made of soft flannel, and cut after the 
princess pattern. The seams may be piped with some pretty contrasting 
color, and the bottom may be finished with deep scallops, worked with 
wash silk to mat<'h the pipings, and in each scallop a clover leaf, or other 
simple design. This garment is high in the neck and has long sleeves. It 
may be worn as a skirt, but is designed expressly for wear on hot summer 
days with no other clothing but the waist and diaper. I have described 
one such garment that was worn by a happy little baby of my acquaintance. 
It was made of a delicate shade of gi'ay, and the pipings and embroidery 
were of red. She had another made of pale blue flannel with dark blue 
trimmings. She looked very pretty in both, and must have been comfort- 
able. 

The cloak is most often made of cashmere, and may be tinted or white, 
as preferred. Some of them are very elaborate, and are handsome when 
new ; but after a little wear they become soiled, and then look quite as 
shabby as any other soiled finery, and much more so than plainer cloaks 
would. Line the cloak so that it will be comfortable ; dispense with ex- 
pensive trimming, and spend the money thus saved on goods that will be 
worth making over into something else when the cloak is outgrown. I saw 
a very handsome cloak recently, made of heavy, all-wool dress goods cost- 
ing a dollar and a half a yard. The color was a pearl gray. It was cut 
after a sacque pattern, and had a long cape gathered on a yoke and finished 
with a plain round collar. The cape and collar were lined with rose-pink 
silk, and the cloak was finished with bows of pink and pearl gray ribbon. 
The hood of swan's-down was also trimmed with bows of pink and gray. 

It is well to make such clothing by hand, not simply because it happens 
to be fashionable to do so, but because the seams are more easily ripped 
apart when baby wants larger clothes ; and, because they soon have to be 
made larger, the seams should be taken deep, especialiy the under-arm 
seams. 

Stockings will be needed as soon as the pinning blanket is discarded; 
before that they are only one more trial for the little martyr to get used to. 



152 THE KURSEliY. 

Babies should wear woolen stockings until they are three years of age. 
Those knitted at home of fine Saxony wool are the prettiest, warmest, and 
most economical in the long run. Knitted or croehetted boots should be 
worn with them at first, and afterward, moccasins made of chamois are 
very comfortable, convenient, and easily procured. A child should not be 
compelled to wear leather shoes with stiff soles until he is at least a year 
and a half old. 

There is not much change in the style of baby's dress until after the 
third year. The diaper should be discarded as soon as possible, and draw- 
ers substituted. The same style of waist as that described for the first 
wardrobe will do nicely until the child is too old to wear waists, but but- 
tons must be added to fasten the drawers iu front, behind, and at the 
sides. The elastics that support the stockings may also be f istened to the 
waist at first, but shoulder-brace stocking-supporters are best for children 
over five years of age. 

Small, flat buttons should be used wherever possible until the child is 
four or five years old, as children are liable to be hurt when falling heavily 
on the large pointed or rounded ones. 

Make the little one's clothing a study ; it is really a fascinating one. A 
child can be dressed prettily and yet sensilfly. The clothing ought all to 
hang from the shoulders ; it should be loose and fit easily — all parts of the 
body being equally well protected, and in accordance with the weather. 
These suggestions carefully observed and acted upon will bring gratifying 
results in the way of good health, and an even and serene temper. 



CHAPTEK III. 

baby's arrival. 

The time has arrived when the baby is to put in an appearance, and 
there is much excitement and nervousness. There is no need to write 
directions for the mother's use at this time ; there will be those present 
who will see to that. But the little one — how shall it be cared for ? If 
some of the receptions that have been given to babies, and by nurses who 
possess at least an average amount of intelligence, were to be described 
here exactly as they were conducled, the writer would be in danger of be- 
ing accused of exaggeration — so heartless and devoid of common-sense 
would they appear. 

A competent nurse should be engaged, so that, in case the doctor does 
not arrive in time, tlie necessai-y work can be performed by skilled fingers. 
Baby should have one friend present in his behalf before the cord is cut 
that ushers him into an independent existence. At that time most atten- 
tion is apt to be paid to the mother, and tlie baby suffers in consequence. 
Some practitioners advance the tlieory that many people suffer through life 
from a heart-trouble caused by cutting the umbilical cord before it has 
ceased pulsating ; and their arguments in favor of that theory certainly 
sound plausible. Be sure the pulsations have ceased, then cut and tie the 
cord immediately. Bt-fore it is time to perform that task, however, exami- 
nation must be made to see that the child's mouth is not filled with mucous, 
which often prevents breathing. No one should be entrusted with the care 
of the baby immediately after its birth who ciinnot perform the service re- 
quired intelligently. As soon as the cord is tied, baby should be carefully 
lifted in a towel, to prevent its slipping from the nurse's grasp, and carried 
into another room where the temperature is as high as can be comfortably 



TBE NUIiSERt. m 

endured. No adult would enjoy being carried, in an undress oondiiiuu, 
from a room where he had been confined for some time to one at leaat 
twenty degrees colder 1 Yet that is what the new-born baby is obliged to 
endure. Not only that, but he is usually carried into another degree of 
temperature still colder within half an hour, and bathed in water which 
may bo of the same temperature as his body, and may not be, and all the 
while lying without the least protection from the air, which striking the 
damp skin, produces a sensation that could not be endured by the strong- 
est adult. Usually it is not endured very patiently by baby, as his lusty 
cries testify ; but nurse does not understand the meaning of his protest, 
and declares that he cries because he is hungry and must be fed. Some- 
times sugar is done up in a rag, moistened with milk, and stuck into his 
mouth to keep him quiet until he can be tortured in the bath as long as the 
nurse thinks necessary, and he sucks down enough dyspepsia and colic to 
last a long time ! Sometimes he is fed sweetened milk aud water from a 
teaspoon, and then begins his first acquaintance with indigestion. 

After the tender flesh is washed aud wiped imtil it must feel raw to the 
bone, and the little joints have been twisted until they are nearly dislo- 
cated, and the wee bit of hair is brushed until the scalp smarts, and when 
the stomach is rebelling against the unnatural food poured into it, it seems 
as if it ought to occur to some one present that baby must be tired aud 
ought to have a rest. But no I People are not thinking of the comfort of 
the helpless little stranger, but of gratifying a love of the sensation that 
comes to many women when a baby is born, and is to be seen for the first 
time. They cannot wait to let him rest, but carry him to the proud papa, 
who takes him awkwardly, perhaps treats him to his first smell of tobacco, 
tosses him a little because he does not know what else to do, then gives 
him back to nurse. She carries him to mamma, who hugs him and nearly 
smothers him with kisses, and then invites him to dinner. She has not yet 
had time to rest from the ordeal through which she has so recently passed ; 
her pulse is bounding, and her nerves are all unstrung, and the food she 
has to offer certainly cannot be in very good condition, yet it is considered 
quite good enough for the poor little baby who cannot help himself. 

Now, how much more sensible would be some such plan as the follow- 
ing : Make the mother comfortable, darken the room, and leave her en- 
tirely alone for a little while, that she may rest, and then give her a cupful 
of nice gruel to drink before baby is brought to her. While she is resting, 
the baby must be cared for in a i-oom where the mother cannot hear him 
Bhould he cry, and which, as has been said, is so warm that it is quite un- 
comfortable for the nnrse. 

Hold him with his feet toward the fire, and so that the light cannot strike 
his face. Lubricate him all over with fresh laid that has been boiled in 
water, then skimmed off when cool. Some nurses use sweet oil, but the 
emell of it is unpleasant to many, and lard serves the same purpose, and, 
after being boiled in water, is almost scentless. Use plenty of lard, and be 
sure that it is warm, but not hot, before applying it. Put it on as quickly 
as possible, and do not move the baby any more than is necessary ; then 
cover him with the bath blanket, one end of which covers the nurse's lap, 
and hold him very still for a little while. The baby will be quite apt to en- 
joy that sort of treatment, and he may go to sleep. He certainly will not 
cry, unless he is treated so carelessly that he in forced to protest. Please 
remember that he is not used to being trotted, or rocked headforemost on 
the nurse's knee, and that it is not wise for him to have many new experi- 



154 THE NURSERY. 

ences tlio first day. It ia strange how few women there are who can be 
perfectly quiet wliile holdiu^ a- little child ! 

After a time wipe off the laid with a soft cloth, that has been warmed 
until it feels comfortable when held to your own cheek; it will be found 
that very little of the viscid matter will be left on the body. There is no 
use in keeping him uncovered while doing this, unless you have had so 
little experience that you are awkward. Now take a piece of soft linen 
about six inches square, and dip it into mutton suet that you have melted 
in a saucer, and which is just warm. A hole must first have been cut in the 
center of the linen, and through this hole draw the cord, folding tlie ends 
of the linen carefully so that the cord is completely covered, y(t not com- 
pressed. Lay it upwards on tlie abdomen and place over it a piece of very 
thin flannel doubled to form two thicknesses, and large enough to" com- 
pletely cover the linen. Now put a strip of old flannel loosely around the 
body, pinning it at the side. There is no necessity of turning the child 
over to do this ; it can be slipped under him so carefully as not to disturb 
him at all. The flannel should not be hemmed, and is only to be used 
until the child can be dressed. Pat on one diaper, composed of a single 
square of the old linen ; wrap him in one of his shoulder blankets ; pin it 
securely to keep it iu place ; over all put a spread made of the cheese 
cloth, and then lay him where he can be warm, and perfectly quiet and 
shaded from the light. 

I know there are fastidious mothers who will hold up their hands in 
horror when they read this, and insist that the baby shall be washed and 
made decent the very first thing I This is not written for mothers of that 
class, but for those who are willing to learn, who consider the comfort of 
the baby as paramount to the gratification of their own vanity, and who try 
to realize bow the little one must suffer under the treatment which he ia 
usually forced to endure. 

When be begins to be restless carry him to his mother. She will be 
rested and ready to receive him. The food he now takes should be the 
first lie receives ; it acts as a stimulant and a laxative, and is just what 
the baby needs. 

There are exceptional cases where the child must be given a liltle water 
in order to get the mucous from his throat, and sometimes when he is very 
weak, a few drops of whiskey may be given as a stimulant. If the baby is 
born during the night, it is far wiser not to bathe him until next day, and 
he should be handled as carefully as possible. If he cries, it is not be- 
cause he wants some one to walk the floor with him, or rock him until he 
is dizzy, or place him in a different position every three minutes. 

In the matter of food most people seem to think that Nature forgot to 
provide for little babies, though they can see that the young of all other 
species is provided for. The niother has but little milk at first, but instead 
of taking that fact as a warning that baby needs but little, and must not be 
allowed to eat what he does not need, they immediately start the cry that 
baby is st;irving, and must be led, and so his stomach is kept distended 
with food that it cannot digest. 

An old doctor said once, when asked what to do with a child that re- 
fused to nurse : " Let him alone until he gets hungry. I'll warrant he 
gets enough to keep him from starving. In fact, you would not find it easy 
to starve a new-bom baby to death. It is much easier to kill them by 
over-feeding." 

Baby must have his first bath. Select a time for it about half-way be- 



THE NURSERY. 155 

tween meals, the next moniiug after his arrival. He is rested then, and 
has gained considerable strei gth, and, besides, in becomiug used to being 
handled. Make all preparations lor the bath before disturbini,' him. Be 
sure that the room is warm euongli, that the water is of the right tempera- 
ture (you can determine that by plunging your elbow into it), and that 
baby's clothes and toilet basket are at hand. Kememher that tlie skirt 
and wrapper selected for his wear at first must button in front; then the 
sleeves of the skirt can be put iuto the sleeves of the wrapper and both 
garments put on at once, and baby will have to be moved less often. Be 
sure that the blanliet is warm and well aired. You, of course, washed it 
out at once after using it around the dirty httle new-comer, and hung it by 
th." kitchen fire where it wauld dry, in readiness for the first bath. It will 
require but a moment to remove the shoulder blanket pinned around him, 
and take ofif the dressing from the navel. Some nurses do not believe in 
doing that so soon, but I think it is wiser, for then you can be sure whether 
all is going well or not. 

Whether to put the baby into the bath-tub or bathe him while he 
lies in your lap is the question that must be decided in favor of the 
wav in which you can be most expeditious, and expose him least to the 
cold air. If ho is to lie in your lap, he must be bathed entirely under one- 
half of the bath blanket. It seems so strange that nurses can see the 
necessity of taking that precaution when bathing an invalid, but not when 
bathing a little baby 1 

The easiest way, according to my notion, is to have just enough water 
in the bath-tub to cover the baby when he is laid into it. Wet his head 
first, then lay him in the tub and keep his head above water by placing 
your left hand under his neck. Have the bath-tub on a chair facing you, 
and spread the bath blanket over the back of the chair. That you may 
judge whether these direutions are sensible or not, just apply them to your- 
self. Do you feel as comfortable wheu half under water as when the water 
reaches to your chin ? To be sure yoii do not, so do not bathe your baby 
in a wash-bowl where only part of him can be immersed at a time. A very 
good-natured baby may submit to the wash-bowl without protest, but it is 
not fair to compel him to do so. A tin bath-tub long enough to lay baby 
down in does not cost so much that it cannot be afforded by nearly all 
mothers. If the water is of the right temperature, baby will enjoy lying in 
it ; but do not keep him in a moment longer than is necessary to get him 
clean. When that is accomplished, throw the blanket over the tub in such 
a manner tliat, as you lift him from the water, he will be completely cov- 
ered, and lay him in your lap. A little practice will make you so dexterous 
that you can manage to lay him on one-half of the blanket while the other 
half covers him, an! the blanket f )ld9 over towards you ; then you can get 
at him with ease. I know one lady who practiced lifting a large and very 
limp doll from an imaginary tub in a chair, until she became quite pro- 
ficient. 

There may be those who, in reading this, will think that too much at- 
tention is given to details. But if they have ever been near a screaming 
baby who was being tortured by his first bath, and then could see that 
same child when he had become used to lieing properly bathed, they would 
recognize the necessity of lessons that will help mothers to do the better 
way. A baby wlio has been bathed in the old thoughtless way will not at 
first submit to ever so great an improvement without his usual vigorous 
protest, because he baa a vivid remembrance of what he has endured, and 



156 tHE NURSMUf. 

is 80 full of appreliensions that be does uot realize that he is being bettef 
treated. There is no reason why a child should cry when being bathed if 
he is handled carefully, batlied in water of the proper temperature, and uot 
allowed to become chilled. 

The baby under the bath blanket is now being wiped dry, with a soft 
linen cloth, and rubbed a little, gently, with nurse's warm hiind to prevent 
any possible prickling or crawling sensations. Then the navel is dressed 
exactly as it was at first, but instead of the strip of flannel being used to 
hold the navel-dressing in place, it is held by the waist which fits just 
closely enough to keep it from slipping and to form a gentle support of the 
abdomen when baby cries. 

Many doctors now claim that no dressing of the sort is at all necessary ; 
that the navel dries up faster and heals better without it, and they also 
claim that the new born baby should be dressed simply in a plain, loose 
flannel wrapper and a diaper. But, though they have a great deal of sense 
on their side of the question, they are not going to have any followers for 
some time. There are many motherH who object to having their babies 
compared to puppies and kittens even in regard to the necessity of wearing 
a band tightly pinned about the little bodies. All reforms must mova 
slowly, so we will dress the navel as directed, and put on baby's other gar- 
ments. 

The powder puff is used, but not too liberally. The little creases must 
not be tilled with enough of the powder to form into a paste when it be- 
comes moist. For at least a week none but tLe soft linen diapei-s should be 
used on baby and but one at a time. In dressing him in this way he need 
only be turned on his face once — when the waist is fastened— and his arms 
need be moved but twice. It is really a short piece of work to give baby 
his bath, and after it he will usually be very good until it is time for him 
to have luncheon. 

In this little talk an efifort has been made to give the lessons so plainly 
that the most inexperienced can care for a baby more intelligently than 
many poor little ones are cared for at present. Mucli depends on every- 
thing being done right at first. 

Do not tiy to press the head into shape when there is a malformation 
caused by a difficult birth. It will come all right if left alone, but, if inter- 
fered with, serious trouble may result. This should be impressed on the 
mind of the young mother, as there are so many old ladies who will try to 
convince her that baby's head will never be shapely unless she makes it so. 

Great care must be taken that the navel takes its proper place as it 
heals. If it begins to protrude, take a cork and whittle it to a blunt point 
— so that it resembles a small acorn only not quite so pointed ; cover it 
•with linen and use it to hold the navel in place, fastening it firmly with 
strips of court plaster, and with the waist over all. 



CHAPTER rV. 

CARE OF BABY. 

On the first day of baby's life begin to teach him regular habits, and be 
sure that you do not teach him bad ones. Many a child has been punished, 
many a mother's days made miserable because of habits that she herself 
taught him when she thought him too young to learn anything. Do not 
make that mistake ; babies are creatures of habit just as older people are, 
and they begin to learn from the hour of their birth. At this time they know 



THE NVRSERY. I57 

Dothing about being rocked, or carried about the room or taken up and 
talked to the moment they open their eyes, or being fed at all manner of 
hours, nor need they ever think that such treatment is a necessary part of 
their existence, unless they are taught to so regard it. 

Perfect rest, suitable food, and plenty of warmth are all that a baby 
wants during the first weeks of his life, and he will not cry if his wants are 
all supplied. 

From the first the baby should be fed regularly, and bathed regularly 
and put to sleep regularly. He should not be taken up and played with 
when he is quietly looking around him, unless you really wish to keep up 
the practice through his boyhood. Neither will you walk with him, if you 
are wise, for the same reason. Remember that it will not benefit him ; at 
the start he does not cry to be walked with, although he very soon gets into 
a habit of doing so. 

AYhen he begins to cry do not get panic-stricken. You would not if you 
knew what a ridiculous figure you cut to the observer who is uot alarmed 
or made nervous by the crying of a baby. It is not uncommon to see a 
whole household thrown into the utmost confusion by a baby's attempt to 
express himself, and theii- iueflfoctual, because purposeless, efforts to quiet 
him are really ludicrous. Let us imagine ourselves in his place, but en- 
joying (?) exercises which, compared with his, are in proportion to our size 
and strength. 

In the first place something has happened to make us uncomfortable, 
for which we are not in the least responsible and which we have not sense 
enough to bear quietly. We are in pain from the effects of over-eating, or 
from having eaten that wliich does not agree with us. We all know the 
feeling, and can imagine how we would enjoy the following course of treat- 
ment : First : tossed violently in a blanket, which would be about the same 
as the trotting process that a baby has to endure. Second : carried in a 
mad race around the room, subject to a bewildering number of turns, and 
a sudden jounce when least expecting it. Third : patted on the back with 
a mallet. Fourth : turned suddenly and without warning on the face, and 
swung violently back and forth, head foremost. Fifth : rocked until we are 
dizzy. Sixth : turned over to a fresh tormentor who goes through the same 
course of treatment followed by his weary successor. Seventli : compelled 
to swallow food until vve can hold no more. Eighth : gagged with a mix- 
ture of indigestion producing stuff tied up in a rag. I imagine we would 
think ourselves vei-y greatly abused. 

A baby is really better natured than an adult, for he seldom cries over 
imaginary woes. If he is not hungry or tired or cold ; if his clothing is 
comfortable and his food agrees with him ; if he has not been allowed to 
eat too much or at irregular mtervals ; and if he has not been made ner- 
vous by over excitement, or lack of sleep, or too much handling by strang- 
ers, he is not going to cry. The mother and nurses are at fault if he does 
cry, for they have no right to let him be abused in any of the ways sug- 
gested. It is their business to protect him, and the penalty they have to pay 
in nights of sleeplessness, and days of wearisome baby-tending when they 
neglect that duty is none too great, and would seem, to baby's sympa- 
thizers, a desirable little bit of justice, were the baby also not obliged to 
suffer. 

Through some carelessness of nurse or mother, baby has occasion to 
complain, and does so as lustily as he is able. Now, don't get excited ! 
Think, quickly, of the events of the day, to discover a key to the complaint 



158 THE NURSERY. 

that you may give relief. He is your patient ; you are phy»ician, and he 
has a right to expect intelligent treatment, and a rii;;ht to be wratliy if he 
does not get it. If you allow yourself to become nervous, you are only 
going to make matters worse. Jt is not so very difficult for one who has the 
entire charge of a baby to discover where the trouble lies, and it should 
not be difficult for her to find the proper remedy. And here let me say 
that it is cruel to give a little child int) the care of half a dozen people. 
He is sure never to be half cared tor. I am aware that many children have 
lived under such treatment, but no sensible person will pretend to argue 
from that fact that it is desirable, or that a different method might not be 
adopted which would result in added comfort to baby and all concerned, 
or that the staiistics of infant mortality might not l)e made less startling. 
Men have lived through the hanging process ; but we would not use that 
fact as an argument in favor of hanging as a sort of gymnastic exercise. 

Nor is it any more sensible to say that because such treatment has not 
warped the natures and ruined the intellectual powers of the entire human 
family, that a more reasonable course might not raise the standard of the 
humau race to a satisfactory degree. At any rate, it can do harm to as- 
sume that it will, or to keep on repeating the lessons taught by those who 
are entitled to the name of professor in such matters, uutil the dulled ears 
of mothers shall begm to recognize the truth, and they are induced to try 
experiments for themselves with a reason as the incentive to each experi- 
ment. 

It is more difiBcult to properly train a child when the hereditary tend- 
encies and pre-naturai influences have been undesirable ; yet I do not wish 
the mother, whose eyes have just opened to her mistakes, lo imagine that 
now there is nothing left for her but to bow before the inevitable. On the 
contrary, her exertions must be doubled, for she not only must try to 
overcome evil tendencies, but to supplant them by those which are good. 

The principles taught by Professor Fowler might be found very suggest- 
ive in this connection ; for, though he is often accused of being an extrem- 
ist, and it is a fact that one wlio should undertake to carry out his ideas . 
would be in danger of insanity, yet no one who reads him carefully will 
doubt that his theories, in general, are based on truth. We will convert 
one of them into a nice, little, every-day lesson to be used as an dlustration. 
Suppose your boy gives evidence of having been born with an ungovern- 
able tempei-— a well-defined organ of temper we will call it. You must not 
add to it by furnishing him with opportunities of displaymg his infirmity— 
but rather let it become inactive from want of use, and train the organs of 
cheerfulness and self-control and good-nature uutil they dominate the un- 
desirable one. 

It is easy to be good-natured when there is nothing to provoke ill- 
nature ; that every one admits. That it is possible to get into a habit of 
being good-natured no one will deny ; and that habit has great influence 
over man is equally undeniable. Then if the evils of ill-temper are firmly 
impressed on the mind, and precautions are taken to build resistances 
against the temptation to be ill-tempered, the person in question will be 
quite sure to be fairly good-natured. I believe this to be true of all other 
of the human characteristics, and that, by thoughtlessness in training, a 
child's mental and moral characteristics may be mad^ undesirable. 

" Not one l>aby in a thousand is properly fed," said a physician one day, 
" and it is a good tiling for the doctors that they are not. Why," he added, 
jt is my firm belief that if every child that comes into the world daring th^ 



THE NUliSERY. 159 

next twenty years were to be properly fed for the first ten years of his hfe, 
a large proportion of the doctors would have to seek some other occu- 
pation." 

" And we, lawyers, too," answered his friend, " and more especially if 
the proper feeding were to be continued for a few years, for nothing so 
surely produces bad blood and quarrelsome tendencies as a disordered 
stomach." 

Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher says that few people have any clear idea of 
what infants suffer simply from an insufficient amount of food— that they 
cry quite as often from starvation as from colic, and that tiiere are not many 
mothers of the present day who are not able to supply nouxishmeiit suffi- 
cient for the healthy growth of their children, without feeding them in part 
from the bottle. Sue baa in mind the city mothers who are robbed of physi- 
cal strength by the excitement, dissipaiion, and nervous exhaustion of city 
life, not the women who live on farms. 

It is better for the child to be left as nature intended, unassisted by arti- 
ficial methods, and the mother should do all she can to fit herself for 
nourishing the helpless little being that is so dependent on her. She must 
remember that the food she eats is the food that nourishes baby, and so, 
for its sake, if not for her own, she should abstain from highly spiced food, 
pickles, stimulating driaks, confectionery, and all else tliat takes her appe- 
tite and repays her with a fit of indigestion. If, before the baby's birth, sbe 
ate but little bone-making food, she must make that loss good now ; and 
there is no way in which she cau do it as safely and so well as by nursing 
him herself. I have very little respect for that mother who, to gratify a 
depraved appetite, will deliberately rob her babe of that which no one else 
can give him, and what he caimot do without. 

Not only in regard to the food sLe eats must the nursing mother be care- 
ful ; if she takes cold, or is ill in any way ; if she suffers from indigestion, 
or loss of sleep, or nervousness, or from over-work, or worry, or too great 
excitement, the baby must suffer too, though, perhaps in a way so different 
that she might never suspect the cause. Whatever greatly affects the 
mother, either physically or mentally, is sure to affect the child in a greater 
or less degree. The mother has no more right to ignore that fact, and per- 
sist in doing what is most satisfactory to herself, than she would have to 
inflict torture on an adult, or to entice him into the paths of sin simply be- 
cause it was easier for her to do so than not. 

The influence that the Eursin^ mother has over her child is almost as 
strong in the woman who nurses a child not her own. This should be 
thought of by mothers who conclude to hire a wet nurse. A woman should 
be chosen who is strong and robust, rather than fat. She must be free from 
hereditary tendency to mental or physical disease. It is better that she 
should not nurse another child at the same time, and she should be willing 
to eat only such food as would agree with the little one given into her care. 
Womeu between twenty-two and thirtj'-five years of age make the best wet 
nurses. The nurse should be of a cheerful disposition, have regular habits, 
and should not be allowed to over-work. 

A medical journal tells of a motlier who attended the funeral of a 
friend, taking her baby with her. He became fretful, and she nursed him 
to quiet him, all the while crying bitterly. When getting ready for the drive 
to the cemetery, she noticed that her baby looked sick and went home with 
him. In less than two hours he was dead. 



160 THE NURSERY. 

Numerous instances bare been recorded of cbildren who have been 
thrown into spasms from being nursed when the m ulier was angry, or sad, 
or otlierwise greatly excited, and it seems as if they had become so com- 
mon that mothers might be more careful. 

I once heard a mother say : " I ought not to have eaten that cabbage 
to-day, for baby is always sick when I eat it ; but it was so good that I just 
could'nt help it 1" 

That motlier often remarked that she loved her baby better tli an herself, 
but certainly her actions did not go to prove any such assertion. What 
made her conduct still more uupardouable was the tact that she knew very 
well the influence of the nursing mother on the child, and how clearly it 
was proven iu her case, for she always doctored her baby by taking the 
remedies herself that she thought he needed, and, alter having eaten the 
cabbage, she tried to lessen the little one's pain iu the same way. 

When it is kuown that the child can be so greatly affected by the mother 
in her undesirable moods, there is no reason to doubt that her pleasant ones 
also affect him ; therefore, she should endeavor to be calm, and to think 
her happiest thoughts when nursing her baby, and for some time before. 
She can, at least, refrain from nursing him nniil she has had time to re- 
cover somewhat from her fit of grief or anger ; for it is better that he should 
go hungi-y for a time thau that he should eat such food as she can offer 
him. If the attack of excitement has been severe, the breasts should be 
emptied by a breast-pump or otherwise, and the infant not allowed to nurse 
until they fill again under more favorable circumstances. 

Usually the quantity of the mother's milk is not so deficient as the 
quality; and, if the baby frets while nursing, or to nurse oftener than he 
should, she should at once take measures to find out if he is being suiBi- 
ciently nourished. 

Dr. Verdi saj'S that the mother's milk, to be good, should be while, 
sweet, opaque, and of a very pleasant taste. It contains globules of lat or 
butter, caseine or cheese, sugar of milk, salts, and a little yellow matter. 
A drop of good milk on a plate of glass will not run off easily ; it will main- 
tain a globular form, and adhere somewhat to the glass. That is not so 
with milk deprived of its solids ; it will run off quicker than water, on the 
slightest inclination of the glass. 

If it is found that the milk is insufficient for the child, other food must 
be given it. Under such circumstances it is wiser and more convenient to 
nurse it during the day and give it the bottle at night, as the mother can 
get better rest, which is necessary to make her milk good. If possible, 
find out what necessary properties of food are lacking m the mother's milk, 
and supply them in the other food given it; this may be done very suc- 
cessfully in the cases which often occur where cows' milk will not agree 
with the mother's milk in baby's stomach. 

" It is so hard to bring up a bottle-fed baby i" How often we hear the 
ci-y, and it certainly is not easy. Nothing can be easily done in a way op- 
posite to that which Nature intended, yet many things might be more easily 
done than they are, as well as more successfully, if common sense in the 
care of babies could only be taught to girls. Instead, they never give the 
subject a thought until they are married and have a baby of their own to 
practice on, and the poor little thing must suffer while the mother is learn- 
ing from experience how to care for it. 

With bottle-fed babies mere care must be taken to feed them properly 
than is necessary when the mother nurses them ; but it should not be with- 



THE NURSERY. IGl 

held, foi- great care in feeding will result in much lesa care being necessary 
in other respects, and in the iiappiness of having a healthy, laughing baby, 
instead ot a sickly, crying one. 

As long as young people persist in marrying without giving any thought 
to tlie welfare of the babies tl:at are very hUely to come into their liomes, 
just 80 long will tliere be mothers who are unfit to or incapable of nursing 
their babies, and just so long must there be bottle-fed babies. A woman 
of scrofulous constitution, addicted to recurring diseases of the ekiu, or one 
subject to hereditary diseases, should not nurse her baby— neither is she 
fit to be married— for it will stand a better chance of having health if 
brought up on the bottle. 

To begin with, provide two bottles and tubes for the baby, and use them 
alternately, keeping the one not in use in a bowl of cold water until it is 
needed again. Scald both bottles and the tubes every night and morning, 
for baby's health depends a great deal on the cleanliness of the bottle, 
which, when uncared for, so soon collects the tiny, health-destroying 
germs. 

A vigorous child should be fed every two hours during the first weeks 
of its life, then every three hours, and after the tenth month every four 
hours. It should be fed regularly, and should not be allowed to have any 
food at all between meals. This rule is for the day time only. At night it 
should not be fed so often, and sliould be taught at as early an age as pos- 
sible to sleep all night without food. That, of course, will depend a great 
deal on the nature and physical condition of the child. Many babies have 
been taught to sleep all night without food before they were nine months of 
age, and no baby of that age should be fed more than once between nine 
o'clock in tlie evening and five in the morning. 

Never give a child food to stop its crying. If you feed it regularly, and 
give it proper food, it need never ciy because it is hungry. She is a very 
foolish mother who will give her child an opportunity to cry from such a 
cause, and must be anxious to tend a peevish baby. If you have fed it 
properly and it cries, it is not because it wants more food, but for some en- 
tirely different reason. To be sure more food may serve to stupify it, ren- 
dering it less conscious of its trouble, but is that a wise course to pursue ? 
Usually he cries a'^jain when he recovers from his stupefaction, and either 
he must be stupefied again, or means must be adopted that should have 
been used in the first place, and which would not have tended to give the 
child objectionable habits. 

Some nurses consider it a good sign when baby throws up his milk, but 
it is simply an indication that he has a stomach strong enough to rebel, 
when overloaded, and relieve itself. It is no sign at all that it will always 
remain strong enough to relieve itself, though it will never cease to rebel 
when abused. When a child throws up its food it is an infallible sign that 
its mother does not know how to feed it ; but somehow that sign receives 
very little consideration from our honored grandmothers. Tell them of it 
and tliey say " our babies lived through it "—the old, worn-ont argument I 
So their babies did, but they were unfit to have babies of their own who 
could " live through it," and every year we have more and more nervous, 
dyspeptic people whose parents and grand-parents " lived throns:h it," and 
the infant mortality proves that there are more babies who could not " live 
through it." 

Cows' milk is most generally used for bottle-fed babies, as it is the most 
easily procured, and it is a very good substitute if properly given. It con- 



1G2 THE NURSERY. 

tains about four times as much oaseine, albumen and albumenoids than 
woman's milk, and less sugar ; consequently there is four times as much 
coagulable mateiiiil iu the cows' milk. Thu acid gastric juice iu the stom- 
ach coagulates the cows' milk into hard masses difficult to digest, while the 
woman's milk is formed into a loose, light mass readily attacked and 
broken down. The result of this dififureuce, as may be readily seen, must 
greatly affect the digestion. These propenies of the cows' milk must be 
altered in order that it uiaj become a good substitute for the natural food. 
Tbe quantity of caseine must be decreased, and the sugar and fat increased. 
Practically the caseine maybe reduced by diluting the milk with water, and 
ihe fais and sugar increased by addius cream and sugar of milk. The 
tendency to firm coagulation may be obviated by adding lime water or bar- 
ley water. Only sugar of millc should be used iu food for babies, as any 
other sugar is apt to cause acidity. The milk must be diluted according to 
the digestive power of the child's stomach. Some babies require much 
less nourishment than others, and would become ill on food that other 
babies would thrive on. 

Begin by adding an equal quantity of water to the milk, and then add 
less water as baby shows that he can take more nourishment without sufifer- 
ing. There are few babies under six months of age who can take undiluted 
milk ; and it is said th it tliere are some who can never take milk at all. I 
have always believed that such need not be the case if they were fed it 
properly in the first place ; but when a baby's stomach ouce gets out of 
order, it is not easily made well again. Sach babies are vei-yhard to bring 
up, because it is difficult to know just what to feed them. When, however, 
you have discovered the food best suited to them, they are often less 
trouble than other babies. 

I have found few mothers who were very greatly in favor of the baby- 
foods so freely advertised, but many having decided objections to them. 
They should be used only when prescribed by a doctor who knows the 
cliild's peculiarities, and who has had sufficient experience iu caring for 
sick babies to make his opinion worth a second thought. It will be noticed 
that, as a rule, the old doctors who have had babies of their own are not 
the best friends to the manufacturers of the baby-foods, all of which are 
warranted to be as good as, if not better than the mother's milk. 

One doctor who has been very successful in prescribing for sick babies 
recommends food made from lentil-powder as best for babies, next to their 
natural nourishment. A dessertspoonful of the lentil-powder is soaked for 
half an hour in a gill of water, then half a pint of water is. added, and the 
food is boiled for two hours, skimming it as it needs it. When done, there 
must be a pint and a quarter of the food. A little sugar of milk may be 
added. 

Next to food prepared from lentil-powder, that prepared from oatmeal 
has proven moat satisfactory, in his estimation. Two dessertspoonfuls of 
the oatmeal to a pint of water will make it quite strong enough at first, and 
may make it too strong. It should be strained through a cloth when it is 
sufficiently cooked, that none of the hulls may find their way into the stom- 
ach. As ba,by grows older this broth may be made with milk, and is very 
good food for nearly all children. It, too, should be sweetened with sugar 
of milk. 

On account of sickness I was obliged to wean my baby when she was 
seven months old, and in August of an unusually sultry summer. Nothing 
seemed to agree with her, and I was in despair when a midwife told me to 



THE NURSERY. 168 

try whey, saying tliat by its use she had succeeded in bringing up two 
adopted babies, both of whom were sick when they came under her care. 

I procured a nicely dried rennet, and twice daily a piece an iuch square 
was cut into bits and soaked for half an hour in a tableapoonful of warm 
water ; then tUe water was strained into a quart bowl lull of new milk warm 
tcom. tlie cow. In a little while tbe milk would become thick and could be 
cut with a knife into squares. When the whey raised to the top it was 
dipped off carefully, so as to get but little of the white curd, and that, sweet- 
ened a very little, was all baby had to live on. She did not like the taste 
of it at first, and refused to eat ; but when she got hungry enough she con- 
cluded to try it, and soou made no further resistance. When I began 
giving it to her, her bowels moved teu times a day on an average. In two 
weeks she looked healthy and actually began to gain flesh, and in three 
weeks her health had so improved that I thought it would be safe to begin 
givins: ber more nourishing food ; so, during the middle of the day, I added 
a very little ere nn to tbe whey, and sweetened it a little more, and in a few 
diiys I give her diluted milk without the rennet. I do not believe! could 
have brought her through without the whey. By removing the caseine, no 
hard lumps could form in the stomach which was too weak to digest them ; 
but much of the nutriment was also taken. A child would not thrive on 
such a diet long, and it should he resorted to only as a temporary ex- 
pedient. 

My baby never tasted another food than milk from that time until she 
was over a year old, when she was a strong, good-natured baby ; in fact she 
had very Utile food except milk until she had passed her second birthday. 
She had her bottle as long as she wanted it, but discarded it of her own ac- 
cord befoi-e her third birthday. 

It is good for a child to take its milk from a bottle, because it drinks it 
80 much more slowly than from a cup. 

There are many other Icinda of food given to babies, principally farin- 
aceous, but tliey are seldom suited to the need^ of little ones, and are most 
valuable later on when a change of tood is desirable. A very good food is 
crust coffee made from browned crusts of home-made bread. Bakers' bread 
should never be given to a child, because itis usually made of inferior flour, 
and contains alum. Rice water containing a few teaspooufuls of sweet 
cream, and sometimes pure rice water are given. Barley water is highly 
recommended by some nurses and physicians, as is tapioca, but none of 
these foods contain all the elements demanded by the growing child, and 
only serve as substitutes until something can be found that will do better, 
or until its stomach becomes strong enough to take food better adapted to 
his needs. 

From the first day of the little one's life give him cold water to drink, in 
small quantities at first, which may be gradually increased, though much 
should never be given at a time. 

It is almost as important that baby should be kept warm enough as that 
he should be properly fed. Many babies cry because they are cold. For 
some time after their birth they are not provided with a natural means of 
warmth, and a sufficient amount of heat must be kept up artificially, but 
not spasmodically. There are many mothers who wrap their babies up 
until the perspiration starts from every pore, and then, suddenly discover- 
ing that they are too warm, remove the clothing, thus permitting the cold air 
to strike them and give them an uncomfortable chill, quite sufficient to 
cause loud complaint. _. . 



IGl THE NUIiSERY. 

Very young babies should be kept in a room of uniform temperature ; 
and when they are old enough to be carried out they sliould be dressed for 
the occasion. The amount and kind of clothing provided for them must 
always be in accordance with the weather. Use common sense in the 
matter, and baby will repay you by allowing you much more time for rest 
and recreation. 

I believe tbat babies cry as often when they are tired, as for any other 
reason ; yet many mothers will laugh at the idea. But think how many 
things they must learn, how many different objects tliey must see, how 
many different voices they must hear, how many different people hold 
them, and how many different ways of being held tliey must get used to ! 
No grown person can be in a crowd of strangers all day without feeling ut- 
tei-ly worn out at night, but few of them are careful of the baby on that 
account, simply because they have the idea, and are determined to stick to 
it, that babies do not feel anything, and nothing makes any difference to 
them. 

Until the baby is two weeks old no one but the nurse, the doctor and 
the members of the family should be admitted into the room, and tlie visits 
from the family ought to be few and far between until the baby is nine days 
old. When they are permitted to enter the room, the baby should not be 
passed around like a mere lifeless curiosity. Such a practice is a species of 
refined cruelty, and though very gratifying to the older members of the 
family it should be abolished for the sake of the baby. By refusing admit- 
tance to visitors the mother is saved from excitement which, though 
pleasant, is very fatiguing and leaves her in a condition less fit to properly 
nourish the little one. Even from causes seeming of no Rreater importance 
than that have sprung serious consequences. To the mother who feels 
much better than she expected to, and who is anxious to show her new 
baby, such requirements will doubtless seem entirely too strict ; but they 
are not so, and later on the mother will be very glad that she has fulfilled 
them— or she would be so if she could only appreciate just how much she 
has gained thereby. 

Most babies are played with altogether too mucli. Tiie temptation to do 
this is great and is overcome with difficulty even by the most prudent. 
Such a course is not only unwise but is very dangerous. The little ones be- 
come too much like hot-house plants— very forward and brilliant at first, 
but unable to compete in any way with plants grown in the garden," when 
placed under similar conditions. Many babies die because they are physi- 
cally unable to support the calls upon their mental powers ; and thousands 
of babies are fretful just for the same reason ; they are mentally tired and 
physically tired, and do not know what ails them, or what they want. It is 
wrong to try to get them into another play, or to further tax their brain 
powtr in any way ; yet it is often done as a means of qnieting them, and is 
often successful, but only for the time being. I have seen people at some 
important entertainment so weary that they hardly seemed able to stand 
another moment, and looked as if they did not care to see another siglit. 
But something of interest would come along, and in the excitement of the 
moment all weariness would be forgotten ; but, after all was over, they 
were really more worn out than they would have been had they gone home 
before this last bit of excitement. So it is with the baby who is played with 
when he has already played until he is weary to fretfulness. 

When the baby wakes up and is good let him lie quietly as long as he 



TEE NURSERY. 165 

will, not disturbing bim more tban is necessary to see tbat bis clotbing is 
comfortable, and to turn bim on tbe otber side to rest bim. He may not 
begin to laugb and play at quite so early an age, but so mucbtbe better for 
bim ! You need not feel badly when your neighbor with tbe forward and 
troublesome child tells you that your baby is backward ; console yourself 
with tbe thought that he is accumulating strength of brain and muscle that 
will De a grand reserve force to serve him in the years when he is learmng, 
without trouble, what the young man who was " such a smart baby" can- 
not learn at all, on account of a chilled braiu and nervous, feeble constitu- 
tion. 

When your baby cries and you have reason to know tbat he has been 
fed properly, and is as comfortable as he can be made, just consider that 
he is tired and nervous from the " overwork " of being handled too much, 
or the " over-excitement " caused by tbe many demands that society has 
made upon him, and put him to sleep in a quiet room. He may be a little 
refractory at first— you yourself are at times, you know. There are many 
uiglits when you are too tired and nervous to go to sleep, even when you 
know that it is best for you to do so. Baby cannot reason about it, and does 
not understand tbat it would be wiser for him to keep still when every 
nerve is quivering and the muscles will not rest. Get baby into a quiet 
room just as quickly as you can, and pay no attention to the cunning ways 
in which he will try and entice you into a romp. You are sensible now, you 
know, and are going to do what is best for baby. Undress bim, or loosen 
every garment that can possibly bind him if he should roll around in his 
sleep. Rub tlie back, feet and limbs with your hand, after dipping it in 
warm water, until he begins to be quiet, then using a napkin out of clear 
water, just warm enough not to be chilly, fold it, and put over his eyes and 
down around bis ears. He will be likely to resent such treatment at first, 
but ill a few moments he will be sleeping soundly, and when he wakes up 
tbe weariness and nervousness and headache will be gone. Do not rock 
bim to sleep ; it is fun for you, but it is not good for him. It gets bim into 
a bad habit, and he does not sleep so soundly as he would if allowed to go 
to sleep on the bed. A child should always sleep on his side. Teach him 
to do so from the first. He is not so apt to become choked by the food 
rising in his throat, or to suffer from bad dreams, which often cause chil- 
dren to wake up crying, and he will also be in less danger of getting into a 
habit of wetting tbe bed. 

Buy sea salt and boil it in soft water until it is well dissolved, then put 
it into a bottle where it will be handy. When wanted, pour a litlle of the 
salt water into the wash-bowl of clear water ; thus your baby may have an 
invigoi-ating sea bath every day. It should not be nearly so strong of the 
salt as a grown person would require, please remember. From the very 
first month baby can be rubbed in this way when he shows signs of weari- 
ness, anl he will sleep so soundly after it. 

I used to rub my baby every night before putting her to bed, and before 
she was a year old she would often sleep all night without once wakening. 
When she began to run around, and would get tired and fretful, I have 
often undressed her, given her a plunge bath in a tub of warm water, 
wrapped her in her bath blanket without taking time to dress her, and put 
her to bed. She would sleep sweetly for hours, and awaken quite refreshed 
and ready to amuse herself without the assistance of the whole family. 

Children require a great deal of sleep, but it should never be induced 
by artificial means. The mother who really loves her child will have noth- 



166 THE KUliSERY. 

iiig to do with tlie soothing syrups so extensively advertised. Let the 
baby sleep undisturbed ; never awaken bim to show him off; neither should 
you carry him around when he is asleep for that purpose. It tires him ju«t 
as it would an older person. Never awaken a child suddenly, or allow a 
stranger to stand over him when he awakes, for he easily becomes startled 
at that time, and may be nervous for the rest of the day in consequence. 
It is not good for a child to sleep on feathers, or under covering that is 
too heavy, or with an adult or a sickly person. It is a good plan to fasten 
the bed-clothing so that it cannot be kicked off, yet so as to allow him to 
turn over without discomfort. A child will be as restless when he is too 
warm as when he is not warm enough. 

On the subject of bathing no directions could be given that would suit 
all cases. It is a subject requiring study, and each baby should be treated 
according to his peculiarities. Remember that babies are human and not 
so very different from grown people. There are babies who require a batli 
every day, and would thrive if bathed several times a day ; and there are 
others who would be puny and fretful if bathed all over oftener than once 
a week. Some children deliglit in cold water and plunge baths, and others 
receive such a shock when forced to undergo that treatment that they -can 
hardly rally from one time to another, yet a warm sponge bath wouM leave 
them rested and exhilarated. Probably the majority of children do best 
with the warm tub bath every day, having the water less than milk warm 
rather than more. 

Morning is the time usually considered best for bathing baby, as the 
circulation is free then, and the reactionary powers stronger. It is very 
injurious to baby to bathe liim directly after feeding him, and it is well to 
let him lie quietly a few minutes after the bath before giving him food. If 
his lips and nails have a bluish look for some time, and are has been taken 
that he should not get chilled, then he must be given only sponge baths 
for a time, and those not very often, and so carefully that no breath of cold 
air can reach him. Give him a chance, and he will get strong enough to 
bear a bath after a time ; but there is no " hardening process," such as 
plunging him into cold water, and other cruelties recommended by idiotic 
old nurses that will ever bring about the desired result. 

When cleansing baby's ear, great care must be used not to irritate it. 
You should never try to penetrate beyond the outer opening, or further than 
you can see plainly. Do not use your finser, but wind a soft cloth-around 
a smooth stick, and baby will not be so likely to object to the performance, 
or to grow up with ears as pulled out of shape as to almost deformities. 
How few perfect ears there are ! and it is not to be wondered at when we 
consider the sort of treatment they had during the time when their shape 
could be most easily effected. Be careful when washing the baby's head 
that the water does not run into his ears. Try it yourself and see how you 
like it ! You will not be surprised then if baby objects. 

Use as little soap as possible, and that only of the purest, and be sure 
that it is all rinsed off. When the surface is thoroughly dried, and not un- 
til then, may the powder be used. Be sure tliat it is harmless and without 
lumps, and remember that a very little will prevent chafing as well as a 
great deal, and will not be so likely to form into a paste. 

The scurf that forms on most babies' heads can be removed by a little 
fresh lard rubbed on and allowed to rfmaiii a little while, then washed off 
with soft water and soap. Powdered borax dissolved in warm water then 
applied with a aoft cloth is very good. The solution should b« made strong 



THE NUliSERY. 167 

enough to feel quite slippery to the tiiiger.-i, aucl the head must be well 
rinsed after the application. It renders unnecessary so much combing, to 
which few babies will submit with patience. 

Do not use a metallic instrument with which to clean baby's finger nails. 
It is unnecessary and tends to make the end of the finger and the finger 
nail shapeless. Move his hands back and forth in the basin of water with 
a moderately quick motion. He will think it is tine fun, and the nails will 
be perfectly freed from dirt —that is if -they have not previously been made 
rough 1 y scraping. In sucli cases they must be allowed to grow smooth 
before they can be easily cleansed. 

Do not adoj r the practice of drying the diapers that have been wet and 
using them again before they are washed. It is a nasty habit, and the stiff 
diaper will not tend to make baby comfortable. Diapers can be washed out 
with veiy little trouble, and should be washed every day. Care must be 
taken to have them well rinsed. 

As soon as a child is old enough to go out of doors, it should have a 
ride in the fresh air every day. Under no circumstances ought it to be in 
a badly ventilated room. Strict attention should be given to the ventila- 
tion of the nurseiy if every other room in the house is neglected. It is a 
good plan to wrap the baby up, then open all the doors and windows of the 
room in which he is, and leave them open a little while. This practice may 
begin when he is very small, and helps him to become accustomed to cold 
air, making him less liable to take cold when carried out for the first 
time. 

Please do not take the baby visiting. It may not hurt him to be dressed 
for company once in a while, but it is hard on the strongest and least sensi- 
tive children to be taken away from home, and they are seldom patient 
enough under such treatment to make the event a pleasant one for either 
the mother or the hostess. As for the mothers who take their babies to 
church, or lecture-room, or theater, there is nothing that can bo said which 
is strong enough to express the feeling of indignation that the friend oi 
babies feels toward them. If they cannot afford to hire competent help 
with whom to leave the baby, they should be self-sacrificing enough to stay 
at home until the little one is old enough to be safely left without mother. 



CHAPTER V. 
baby's ailmknts. 

It is proper to state, to begin with, that this chapter will not be filled 
with the symptoms of every disease peculiar to infancy, with prescriptions 
that are warranted to fit the case, and directions for the home treatment of 
it. Any ailment of babies deserving the dignity of the term "disease," 
should receive the immediate attention of a skilled physician. Neither 
will time and space be taken in writing recipes for teas," decoctions, oint- 
ments, and other " sure cures " so popular among the " old lady " element 
of society ; for such a system of home treatment is every day adding to the 
doctors' lists of patients, and to the semi-invalids that burden the world 
and are a burden to themselves. 

It is to the preventive treatment that the mothers' skill and energy, 
common sense and intelligence should be applied, for nowhere does the old 
saw about an ounce of prevention apply so well as in the treatment of 
babies. 

A young mother once wrote to a doctor aijking for some general direo- 



168 THE NURSERY. 

tiona that would be useful iu case her baby became sick, for she was going 
to live where she would bo at a considerable distance from a physician. 
This is the reply she received : 

" Don't let the baby get sick ; it is wholly unnecessary. Guard against 
it by proper diet, proper cloihiug, proper temperature, proper amount of 
sleep and freedom from undue excitement. If you do not know tlie ' proper 
amiiuut' in each instance, go to work and find out. It is somethiug every 
woman should know before she becomes a mother, and which doctors have 
neither time nor inclination to teach." 

The old doctor's reply caused the mother to think for herself, and was 
far better than it would have been had he written a lot of prescriptions, 
which she would have i-elied on as a child often relies on the rules laid 
down in his arithmetic, and which are sure to fail him when he wishes to 
apply them. A doctor may practice many years, and yet sometimes be 
puzzled in trying to decide what remedies are called for ; but the mother 
expects to read over a few symptoms, compare them as laid down in the 
book with those she imagines the child to liave, and administer the proper 
remedies at once. This is dangerous economy, and may cost the child's 
life. 

The period of infancy extends from birth to the age of two and one-half 
yeai's ; that of childhood from the complete eruption of the milk teeth until 
puberty. The necessity of watchfulness on the part of the mother until 
the period of infancy has passed cannot be too greatly enlarged upon, as 
ailments at that age are prone to such sudden and adverse changes and 
complications. Cases are on record where a slight fever in the morning 
developed into cerebral complications and violent convulsions before 
night ; and a simple bronchial catarrh terminated in pulmonary congestion 
and death in a very few hours. 

This is mentioned, not to cause the mother unnecessary anxiety, but to 
emphasize the necessity of watchfulness, and some knowledge of the 
symptoms of infantile diseases, and of the peculiarities of her child in 
particular. 

There are many mothers who do not know that the baby is sick until it 
is too late for a doctor to be of any use. Such mothers are found princi- 
pally among those who know little of the proper care of a child, and who 
think that if it cries it is because it has the colic, is hungry or simply cross. 
There are other mothers who send for a doctor every time the child has a 
harder crying spell than usual, or sleeps a little more soundly— thinking 
that baby must be sick, and perhaps is going to die. 

There are certain important symptoms, appearances, and habits which 
are peculiar to ailmrnts in infancy, and which would not be deserving of 
special attention in adults, and of but little during childhood. Among the 
mo8t important of thes^ may be mentioned extremes of temperature. This 
is usually indicated by a clinical thermometer, which every mother should 
have. They can be purchased for from one dollar up, and will save their 
price many times in the lessened anxiety of the mother. If the baby's 
temperature is high, look out for convulsions ; if it is low, there is danger 
of congestion and collapse. Without the thermometer the child will often 
be thiiuglit to have a fever, and perhaps be treated for it, when, in reality, 
his temperature is normal. When there is fever, sponge the body persis- 
tently and thoroughly with water not quite blood warm, keeping the child 
covered. Cool compresses over the chest and abdomen are very bene- 
ficial. 



TBE NURSERY. I6d 

Sudden startings, with the thumbs drawu iuto the palms, porteud 
trouble with the brain, and of tea end in convulyions, which are far more 
serious in infants than in children. Convulsions in children often result 
from a suppression of uriue. If you have occasion to believe that such is 
the case, get the patient to sweating as soon as possible. Give it a hot 
bath, after which cover it up in bed and put bags of hot salt over the lower 
part of the abdomen. Never give sweet spirits of nitre, or remedies of 
that sort except by the advice of a physician, for often it is cause of very 
serious trouble. 

Great dryness of the skin indicates fever or inflammation ; excessive 
pei'spiratioii, debility or prostration. lu all cases of extremes seek medi- 
cal advice at once. I once heard a mother say, whose child was greatly 
troubled with constipation in summer time, that she made no effort to cor- 
rect the trouble because she thought that such a condition was much bet- 
ter for the child than it would be for him to have the diarrhoea. That is a 
very natural mistake ; in reality babies suffer more from constipation than 
from diarrlicea. 

The majority of infantile diseases arise from some fault in the child's 
diet, which may be made unwholesome even fur breast-fed children by 
some indiscretion on the part of the mother or the wet nurse. Dr. Louis 
Starr, of Philadelphia, says : '" There can be no doubt, though the state- 
ment is a bold one and seeraiagly contrary to nature, that, taking tlie 
average, infants properly brought up by hand are better developed and en- 
joy more perfect health thaa those completely breast-fed ; but the diet 
must be adapted to the age and digestive powers of the infant, only such 
food being given as can be assimilated." 

In connection with that, a table is given that may be of great use to the 
inexperienced mother, and we will take the liberty of copying it here : 

Average 

Age. Interval of amount of Total average 

feeding, food each. meal. in 24 liours. 

Iweek 2 tiours l oz. looz. 

1 to 6 weeks 21-2hr8. ll-2to2oz. 12 to 16 oz. 

6 to 12 weeks; possibly to 6 months 3 hours 3 to 4 oz. 18 to 24 oz. 

6 months 3 hours 6oz. 36 oz. 

10 months 3 hours 8 oz. 40 oz. 

He also gives a formula lor preparing the food that it may be as nearly 
as possible like breast milk. For the child a week old he recommends a 
mixture of two fluid drachm:s of cream, three of whey, three of hot water, 
and ten grains of sugar of milk. An ordinary tablespoon will hold about 
six fluid di-achms. From the second to the sixth week, use four drachms of 
milk to two of cream, eight of hot water, and fifteen grains of sugar of 
milk. From the third to the sixth month, use two and one-half ounces of 
milk to half an ounce of cream, one ounce of hot water, and one drachm of 
sugar of milk. 

The whey he uses is made as follows : " Heat half a pint of fresh milk 
until it is as hot as can be borne in the mouth, then add to it a teaspoonful 
and a half of wine of pepsin, or one teaspoonful of Fairchild's essence of 
pepsin— whicli can be more readily procured, as it is for sale by nearly all 
druggists. Stir it into the milk just enough to mix it, then let it stand in a 
warm place until firm coagulation has taken place. Next, heat up the curd 
until it is finely divided, then strain it." 

This whey is very good to give to babies who have weak atomachs, but 



170 THE NURSERY. 

it should only be given until tlio stomach has become strong enough to re- 
tain more nutritious food. 

At the eleventh month a mixcd'fliet may be begun. Here is the bill of 
fare as given by Dr. Starr : " The first meal, at seven a. m., should be of 
the prepared food. The second meal, at half-past ten, a cuplul of warm 
milk. Third meal, at two p. m., the yolk of an egg, lightly boiled, with 
stale bread crumbs. Fourth meal, at six p. m., same as the first, and the 
fifth, at ten p. m., same as the second." 

He advises giving beef ti-a occasionally instead of the yolk of egg. 

It is a good idea to use hot barley water as a dilutant instead ot the 
clear hot water for an infant over six weeks of age.' The barley water is 
recommended by some as a food in itself, but it is not suitable for most 
cliildren under six weeks of age, or nourishing enough for those older. It 
is prepared as follows : Put two teaspoonfuls of washed pearl barley into 
a pint of water, let it boil half an hour, then strain it. 

If the eleven-months-old child does not seem to be sufficiently nourished 
on the diet as recommended by Dr. Starr, I would advise adding a little 
prepared gelatine to its milk for the second and fifth meals. Procure. the 
plate gelatine, for sale by druggists, and drop a piece an inch square into 
a tumbler half full of cold water. Let it stand three hours, then turn the 
whole into a teacup, place it in a saucepan half full of water and let it boil 
imtil the gelatine is dissolved. Wheu cold it forms into a jelly, and one or 
two teaspoonfuls of it may be used at a time. 

If the baby shows symptoms of indigestion, do not begin giving it 
medicine. It is wiser to decrease the quantity and quality of the food, and 
let the little one omit one meal entirely, that his stomach may rest. Avoid 
all stai-chy foods, as the organs of digestion are not sufficiently developed 
to receive them. 

Do not think that food does a child no ha-rm because it does not happen 
to give him the colic, or to throw him into a fever within twenty-four 
hours. A child may be thin, sallow, nervous, fretful, simply because it is 
given food that does not agree with it, or is lacking in the properties re- 
quired sufficiently to nourish it. 

Babies are sometimes troubled with constipation during the first month 
and not afterwards. Never give them physic in such cases. Instead, use 
a soap crayon to induce a movement of the bowels, and then remedy the 
trouble by a change in the diet. If you nurse the baby, take some simple 
medicine, and it will affect the baby through the milk. Diarrhoea may also 
be helped, sometimes cured, by medicine taken by the mother. Never 
give the baby any preparation of opium. It is often given in such cases, 
without the advice of a physician, and it is bad practice. Diarrhoea is 
irsually, but not always caused by improper food. It may be caused by 
heat alone, and in such cases the stomach is rendered unfit to digest the 
usual allowance of food, and less should be given for a time. Keep the 
patient as quiet as possible, bathe him frequently, and keep liim asleep aa 
much as you can. Injections of cold tea are excellent in most cases of 
diarrhoea. Use the best uncolored tei for the purpose, make it very 
strong, and inject but little at a time. It is an astringent, and should not 
be used too freely, as it might cause inflammation. If this treatment does 
not soon have the desired effect, it is wise to call medical assistance before 
the trouble grows worse. 

Sometimes incases of diarrhoea boiling the milk makes it more digestible. 
In many instances, particularly where there is considerable irritation, th« 



THE NURSERY. 171 

diarrhoea may be controlled and tlie jiaiu lessened by giving milk in which 
mutton suet hus been boiled. Add a piece of the suet as large as a walnut 
to a pint of milk and boil it down one-half. A teaspoonful ot this given 
every hour or two is sufficient. 

Summer diarrhoea usually begins with indigestion, which weakens the 
system, and it becomes sensitive to hot weather. Watch the passages from 
the bowels for first symptoms. In health the color will be yellow, but 
when the little one is troubled with indigestion the passages are green, or 
become of a greenish hue soon after being exposed to the air. Begin at 
the first indication to regulate the diet, and you will not have occasion to 
doctor your baby. 

When there is a retention of the urine at first, caused by toi-por or func- 
tional inactivity, give a little tea made from parsley root, but if urine is not 
passed by the time baby is twelve hours old, it is best to call a doctor's 
attention to the fact. 

Sometimes the little one's stomach becomes so irritable that very little 
food is retained or digested. In such cases considerable nourishment may 
be afforded by an application to the epigastrium of Liebig's Extract of 
Beef spread on a cloth in the form of a poultice, or by rubbing the child 
with cod-liver oil every night. 

Little babies are sometimes troubled with mammary swellings. On the 
first appearance use a local application of camphorated vaseline. If sup- 
puration takes place, palliate the distress by applying poultices of flax- 
seed meal until the pus is near enough the surface to be let out. 

Every time the baby is washed make examination to see that he is not 
chafing. Sometimes the trouble cannot be prevented by careful attention 
to the state of the clothing and the application of powder. In such cases 
apply cocoa butter as soon as the trouble is noticed. It comes in cakes, 
and is to be found in nearly all drug stores, and is eflfectual in nearly every 
case. Warm it slightly before applying it. Much may be done as pre- 
ventive treatment by perfect cleanliness. A very good remedy is a powder 
made of equal parts of either corn starch or rice powder and oxide of zinc. 
Carbolized vaseline and witch-hazel jelly are both highly recommended 
for the purpose, and are easily procured. Remember that what will prove 
efi'ective in one case may be utterly worthless in anotlier. 

Should baby cry at night and you be unable to discover the cause, do 
not be in too great haste to decide that it is because of ill-temper. Babies 
often have bad dreams and nightmare caused by indigestion. The crying 
may also be caused by cerebral irritation, or tubercular meningitis — being 
the first signs of the presence of either. It is also often caused by earache, 
the result of carelessness on the part of the mother. I believe that many 
little babies cry at night from earache when the mother can form no idea 
as to the cause of the fretfulness. Every mother should have an ear- 
syringe ; they cost little. When earache is suspected inject into the ear a 
little warm water. It will do no harm in any case, and if there is trouble 
with the ear, affords almost immediate relief. Another good remedy tor 
earache is to fill a clean pipe with cotton, saturate it with chloroform, and 
blow the fumes into the sufferer's ear. A few drops of hot laudanum 
poured on a bit of cotton and put into the ear nearly always affords quick 
relief. But if none of these remedies bring relief in case of actual earache, 
a skilled practitioner must be called, for the pain is probably caused by 
some serious trouble. Never probe the ear, or pour oil into it. Cotton 
dipped into oil and then sprinkled with black pepper la an old-fashioned 



17^ THE NURSERY. 

remedy, aud can do no harm if there is not euough of the oil used to drop 
into the ear. Watch the child carefully, and if you are very sure that the 
crying at night is not caused by some carelessness on your part, report the 
matter to your physician. 

For colic the best and simplest remedy is to give the child a few 
spoonfuls of warm water, and put cloths wrung from warm water over the 
stomach aud abdomen. It is caused from gases produced by the ferment- 
ation of food, and peppermint tea and all other preparations of the sort do 
much more harm than good. 

Sore mouth in little babies is caused by indigestion. To cure it roll a 
little absorbent cotton on the end of a stick, dip it into a weak solution of 
borax aud wash the mouth with it each time after eating. There are very 
few cases of sore mouth when this will not prove all that is necessary. 

It is quite customary to say that a child has worms whenever it seems to 
be ill. The fact is that comparatively few babies are troubled in that way. 
When the child suffers from indigestion, there is an increased secretion of 
mucus which affords a harbor for worms ; but the worms themselves do 
not produce irritation unless they exist in large numbers. The usual indi- 
cation of their presence is paleness about the mouth ; great nervousness ; 
irritability ; capricious appetite, sometimes loathing food, sometimes raven- 
eously hungry ; yet all these symptoms may be caused by entirely different 
troubles. The most reliable indication, and the only one that many physi- 
cians consider at all to be depended upon, is the presence of the worms in 
the stools. A little lard injected into the rectum will often bring pin woi-ms 
away, and is a safe remedy. Bo very cautious about giving the patient 
worm medicines that are advertised so extensively. There is a homeo- 
pathic remedy that is very good and which baby will take without pro- 
test. It is Cina 3 x, and should be given four times a day for several days, 
one or two pellets a dose. Be careful, meanwhile, about the diet, remem- 
bering tliat if there is no indigestion there need be little fear of worms. 

When the child has an attack of croup, the mother has need of all the 
common sense at her command. To get excited and rush from one thing 
to another will do no good, and may endanger the life of the little one. 
Croup in its simpler form is not hard to deal with. Get the child to sweat- 
ing as soon as possible. Build a hot fire, put cloths wrung from hot water 
on his throat, give him hot water to him to drink if he can swallow it ; if 
not, give something that will cause him to vomit — a spoonful of something 
that will not require much of an effort at swallowing ; a little melted butter 
is very good, or a spoonful of hive syrup. The vomiting serves to clear the 
throat and induces perspiration. Another very good remedy is to make 
him inhale steam. Cover him, head and all, with a sheet, keeping your 
head under the sheet also, in order that you may regulate the heat of the 
steam. It should be as hot as can be borne, and may be cooled by lifting 
a corner of the sheet ; but do not uncover the child until his breathing has 
become easier. Do not wait to build a fire and boil water. There is usually 
some in the tea-kettle or reservoir that is warm enough to generate a little 
steam. Hold a basin full of it close to the child's face, and have your as- 
sistant, who has built a fire and put on the kettle, heat a little more water 
in a dipper, and bring it to you as soon as it begins to steam. When a 
pailful of hot water can be procured, set it under the sheet, and keep it 
steaming by putting hot irons or coals into it. When the child is better 
remove the steaming water from under the sheet, but not from the room, 
and cool the child off very carefully, rubbing its body thoroughly dry whila 



THE NVRSERY. 173 

under cover. If there is no improvement in a few moments after you have 
begun treatment, there is danger of croup in its moat serious form, and 
medical assistance should be called as soon as possible. Meanwhile, keep 
at work until it arrives. 

When baljy has a sore throat it is never wise to treat it yourself, especi- 
ally if it is a young baby ; sore throat in children will often yield to home 
ti-e'atment, and does not become fatal quite so rapidly. When he Las a cold 
that makes breathing difficult, look out for bronchitis or pneumonia. Begin 
at once to apply cloths wrung from hot water to the chest and throat, re- 
newing them as often as they become cold, and protecting the child from 
draughts. 

Hiccough is often very troublesome to babies, and is sometimes found 
quite difficult to control. When cold water has proven ineffectual, try giv- 
ing a little granulated sugar moistened with good vinegar— not the prepara- 
tions of acid sold for viuegar by many grocers. 

The most reliable symptoms of whooping cough are : eyes red and watery 
during an attack of cougliing, which is usually very persistent, and the 
"whoop ;" but that is not heard for two or three weeks after the disease is 
taken. The child will not take the disease unless he gets the breath of a 
whooping-cough patieut. Dr. Cook claims that whooping cough is caused 
by an insect which burrows first in the glands under the tongue, then in 
those next the tonsils on the way to the bronchia and lungs. Ou its first 
appearance she advocates putting one grain of quinine under the tongue at 
bed time, requiring the patient to hold it there until it is dissolved before 
swallowing. She says this shortens t)ie length and severity of the disease 
by killing the insects. Other doctors claim that the disease can be cured 
by taking the child for a daily visit to the gas works, and it may be that if 
such is the case, it is because this treatment also aflfects the insects. 

Teething is the hardest work a baby has to do. Do not get impatient if 
he is cross. Remember that it is the only way he has of telling you how 
badly he feels. Keep him out of doors as much as possible. There is not 
much that can be done for him, except to keep him comfortably dressed 
and well-cared for in every way. When the gums are very much inflamed, 
relief may be obtained by putting tiny slivers of ice into his mouth. They 
must be so small that they will melt before they pass into his stomach. Do 
not lance the gums. It is a practice that very often causes a child great 
pain, as the tooth must often force its way through a sort of membrane 
formed by the healing of the lanced place. After the eruption of the teeth 
it is a good plan to give baby a ci-ust of bread to bite, as it will stimulate 
the salivary glands to action. Do not give quieting medicines ; they do no 
real good, even for the time, and are often harmful. If necessary give your 
whole time and attention to the care of your baby during the teething 
period, but let the care be intelligent. You have no right to let your 
thoughtlessness, negligence or ignorance make him sufler more than is 
necessary. 

Finally, teach your child when old enough to protest against taking 
medicine that he must not do so. Never humor him the first time. Insist 
on his taking at once what you give him, and such obedience may save his 
life at some critical moment. Another important matter is to teach him to 
gargle his throat. Some children will learn it very young, and it is con- 
venient in cases of sore throat. 

There is yet another item of importance that will not be out of place in 
this chapter, and that is on the use of the nursery chair. Some mothers do 



174 THE NURSERY. 

not bring it into use until the child is well on to his second birthday. 
That is not sensible. If you have been regular in your habits of caring for 
him, you will notice that his bowels move regularly, and he can be taught 
to use the chair by the time that he is three months old. If ho has trouble 
with his bowels this cannot be done, nor ia it wise to un<lertake it. A child 
once trained to use the chair at a certain hour each day is much better off, 
and less liable to have bowel trouble than children who are waited upon 
until the mother considers them old enough to understand what she says. 



CHAPTER VI. 

WHAT TO TEACH BABY. 

The editors of periodicals devoted to child-culture, or of those contain- 
ing a department for mothers' talks, could tell a surprising story of the num- 
ber of letters they receive asidug advice about the training of childi-en. It 
is, indeed, a question of great importance, and shows as plainly the need of 
special tramiug lor mothers, as it does that tliey have followed no such 
instructions as have been given in this treatise. Most mothers have a habit 
of waiting until"a child is about three years of age before beginning to train 
him, urging that he is only a baby and cannot understand before that age ; 
and, totally oblivious of the fact that ever since his birth he has been re- 
ceiving a kind of training far from desirable and which must all be undone 
before any progress can be made in the right direction, and, because of 
their blindness, make many useless, unreasoning efiforts to find a foothold. 

They are practicing upon the child's mental and moral nature, just as 
many physicians practice upon hiiu when he is ill, and it is a wonder that 
he comes through it all as well as he does. It is pitiful to watch the 
struggle that ensues when a mother considers that the time has arrived 
when baby must be trained, and has no clearer idea of the strength of the 
habits she has already allowed him to form than he has of the necessity of 
forming new ones. 

The training of a child should begin from the day of his birth ; indeed, 
it should begin many years before, but we will ignore that fact as the mother 
did when she marned, and do the best we can for the little creature now 
that he is here. 

We should begin by training him to be regular in his habits. - From the 
first day he should eat regularly, sleep regnlarly and be bathed regularly. 
It will not be so hard to teach him to be regular in his habits, as it will to 
make yourself and the nurse perform your share of the duties regularly. 
It is very easy to find good reasons why this should not be done just yet, 
and the" other should not be done at all this time, but that ia no way to 
train the baby into regularity of habits. If mothers could only be made to 
see the advantage of proper ^^d careful training during the first years 
of a child's life, they would exercise a little more discipline over their OAvn 
actions. 

Go into the homes where children have to be scolded before they will 
go to bed, and then leave the room sulky or in tears or angry ; go where 
they are allowed to cry between meals for something to eat and then refuse 
what is set before them at meal-time, because the lunch has deprived them 
of appetite ; so where the bathing process means an hour of screaming re- 
bellion on the child's part, and of impatient words and blows on the 
mother's ; and then go into the home where the mother compelled herself 



THE NURSERY. 175 

to teach her child regular habits, and note the difference. Webster define* 
habit as an involuntary tendency to perform certain actions, wliich is ac- 
quired by their frequent repetition. Habit becomes second nature, and is 
much more Ciisily acquired than broken off, as any one can tell who has 
tried to get rid of an undesirable one. 

If the mother is earnest in her efforts, she will soon get into a habit of 
attending to the little one regularly, and when a habit is once formed it is 
no longer a task. 

Now, see the advantage of it. A child who has always been fed regularly 
never cries between meals ; when he h.is been put to bed at a regular hour, 
he is sleepy when bed-time comes and habit urges him to go at once. He 
will not cry unless you let liim remain up until he becomes nervous and 
cross, or wide awake with unwonted excite iiunt ; and if he has been bathed 
regularly he does not rebel because he knows ih it rebellion is useless ; nor 
will he care to if the bath is conducted in a sensible manner. 

In the three items here mentioned lie the causes of at least half of the 
nursery conflicts, and a great share of the trouble the mother experiences 
when she undertakes to train her child into perfect obedience, without giv- 
ing due thought to the strength of the undesirable habits which she allowed 
him to form. So, for the sake of emphasis, we will repeat : The first duty 
of the mother is to teach her child to be regular in his habits. The second 
is to teacli him to obey her instantly ; and the third is to teach him not to 
cry for what he may not have, or to compel her to reverse a decision. 

The second duty begins as soon as he is able to stretch out his hands 
towards objects that attract his attention, and, if the mother is firm, the 
third duty is performed almost unconsciously. Children cry because tliey 
hope to gain a point, and thty soon stop crying when they become con- 
vinced that their efforts have not the slightest effect. When you see a 
child cry an hour because an object has been refused him, or a request 
has not been granted, you may be very sure that he has gained a point in 
that way before. 

" Why," said one mother, " I have to give up when Johnny cries like 
that, or he would ci-y himself into spasms." 

Johnny is two-and-a-half years old, and possessed of a vast amount of 
determination. He does not realize how serious might be the results to 
himself from such a severe and prolonged attack of crying; all his 
thoughts are on the object that he hopes to gain, and which experience has 
taught him may be gained by that means if he only perseveres long 
enough. It is not unlikely but that he would C17 himself into a spasm now, 
but at the age of three or four months there would not have been the 
slightest danger of it ; babies ciy, then, principally because they are physi- 
cally uncomfortable, not because they have been denied some pleasure. 

When the mother gives the three- months-old boy the pretty thing he 
cried for, she puts him in danger of spasms from crying when he is two 
years old, and begins to lift the great burden of care and worry and doubt 
and heartache which the mother of an unmanageable child is forced to 
carry, and which often robs her of all happiness and even of life itself. 

I have seen a mother holding her baby as near as possible, with safety, 
toward the bright light, while he was working with all bis might to clutch 
it in his awkward fingers. It was any amount of tun for the mother and 
the spectators, and completely absorbed the little one's attention ; but it 
did not teach him why he should not again be helped to get it when he 
wanted it. To be sure mamma might have said, " No, no, the light will 



17G THE NURSERY. 

burn baby;" but that ■would have little weight after his first experience, 
and with his vague knowledge of the meaning of words. The mother did 
wrong in the first place, and very likely slie will add to the wrong by hold- 
ing him toward the fire again, and as often as he demands it. She finds it 
easier to do that way than to resist him, and to do what is easiest for her- 
self at the present moment seems to be the motive governing the majority 
of mothers in the care of their children. 

In the case referred to, for instance, there would have been some excuse 
for the motiier's conduct had there been no otlier way to amuse the baby. 
But such was not the case, and would never have been liad she possessed 
common sense. His attention might easily have been attracted toward 
something that was bright and pretty, and which he might have as well as 
not. It would have been quite as amusing to the mother to see him work 
to get it, and no evil consequences could have followed. 

Begin, the first time that the child reaches for what he must not 
have, by saying, " Baby must not have that," and do not let your actions 
contradict your words. Do not think that it is all nonsense because he is 
not old enough to understand. He understands at a much earlier period 
than you imagine, and it is far wiser to begin a month too early than a 
month too late. The mother who begins in that way with her child of 
three months is not likely to find it necessary to slap the hands of the year- 
old baby for taking what he had been told he must not have. I have very 
little faith in Solomon's method of child-training. I could never have felt 
any more respect for him than I do for a man teacher — a great strong fellow 
whom I once heard lecture before other teachers on school government : 
" Thrash them until they can't stand up, if need be, but make them mind," 
he said. 

Much has been written against the practice of corporal punishment, yet 
we can find almost as many parents favoring it as opposing it. I have 
sometimes wondered whether if those mothers who whip their little ones 
could be made to see themselves as I was once made to see myself, it 
would make any difference. 

My three-year-old had been naughtier than usual one day, and, before 
I stopped to think, I had said that I had a great mind to whip her. She 
looked at me with eyes full of amazement. 

"What is whip, mamma ; is it strike ?" she asked. Then she quickly 
added, "Bad girls strike 1" 

Tliat is just what I had told her but a few days before, and I think that 
I never in my life felt more tlioroughly ashamed of myself than I did when 
she asked me that question. I endeavored to change the subject, for, in 
spite of my half threat, I could no more have whipped her after the glimpse 
she had given me of myself than I could have tortured her in any more 
cruel way ; but her interest was aroused and the subject was not to be 
changed so easily. She did not seem to have any fear, only a lively curi- 
osity regarding the threatened punishment. 

" If you should strike me, mamma, tben I could strike you, couldn't I?" 
she asked, and I knew not what to say, for I really did not care to teach 
her that might made right— and children form such direct conclusions I I 
might have given all the f Ise reasoning by which we mothers convince 
ourselves that such a process is perfectly just, but in the baby mind it would 
be : " Mamma can strike me because she is big and 1 am little ; but when 
I get big I can strike, too." It is very natural, you know, for a child to 
want to do as mother does, -_ 



THE NURSERY. 177 

I groped in my mind for some suitable answer, but, without waiting for 
it, my merciless, little tormentor continued : 

" Mamma, if you do strike me, where will you strike ? Don't you love 
every little bit of me ?" 

I might have explained that if I struck her it would be because I loved 
her, but do you suppose she would have really believed that? Are wo 
always ready to believe that God sends some ^reat punishmeut for ua to 
bear simply because he loves us? and babies liave not the reasoning 
powers that we have. I might have ordered her to go away and not ask 
me any more questions. I have heard mothers do that, but 1 never could 
see the wisdom of such a course. Besides, I was ashamed of myself, and 
felt that I had shown myself unfit for the high calling of motherhood. How 
I got out of the scrape 1 do not remember. I know that her question 
whether I " did not love every little bit of her," helped me, and I said • 
something very fast and not at all to the point, and hoped that she would 
very soon forget that mamma had threatened to strike, though I was not at 
all anxious that she should forget the conversation I had had with her but 
a few days before, when 1 had earnestly tried to impress the fact on her 
mind that " it was naughty to strike, and only bad girls did so." 

Whipping a child may make him afraid to do the naughty trick again, 
and if you think that only by fear can you train him to be good, then wliip 
him, of course ; for it is necessary that he should be taught to obey. But 
do not trouble yourself to explain that it hurts you more than it does him, 
that it is only for his good and because you love him, and all such non- 
sense, for such explanatious have but little weight with him, and why 
should they? They are really false. Sometimes you whip tlie child be- 
cause you are angry, and it makes you feel better to do so ; sometimes be- 
cause you threatened to do so before you tliought— as I did— and then have 
an idea that you must carry out your threat wliatever happens ; sometimes 
because you are too fond of your own pleasure to take time to think whether 
you might not have a better influence over them in some other way ; some- 
times because you are too lazy to attempt a method of exacting obedience 
that would require more time and trouble. It doesn't take Ion.,' to whip a 
child, you know, but, really, is it ever done because you have his real good 
at heart? 

Let us go back for a moment to the question of carrying out a threat 
made in a moment of thoughtlessness or anger. There are hundredi of 
good people who believe that it must be done, or that the child will be 
ruined, but I am inclined to take exceptions to that theory. It does not 
have reason for its foundation. On the same principle one would feel com- 
pelled to kill a person because he had threatened to. I believe that there 
is no method of child-training that will be successful unless it is based on 
sound common sense. It is never wise to make threats, but when you 
have done a foolish thing, don't add to the foolishness by doing something 
worse, trusting to luck that it may turn out all right. Look the situation 
squarely in the face, and get out of the predicament in as good order as 
possible. If the child Isold enough to understand you, your wis'st way is 
to say, at once, that you have made a mistake. Explain to him that ho was 
so vei7 naughty and made you feel ao badly that you hardly knew what 
you were doing when you threatened to whip him, but that you certainly 
did not intend to do anything of the sort. If you go to work right, the con- 
versation will leave him thinking much more about how naua;hty he was 
to make mamma feel so badly than about the mistake you made. 



178 THE NURSERY. 

That your cliUd should, even at a very early age, be thrown among peo- 
ple who do or say things tliat you would not care to have him do or say 
cannot be avoided. It is not always best to tell him that you do not want 
him to do so because it is wrong, for many times you do not want to give 
him an impression that those people do wrong, and again, little people are 
apt to cause trouble by innocently repeating what mamma has said. 

I found that the best way for me was to encourage my baby to come to 
me with everything, — then in correcting such faul s to say, " Baby must 
not do or say that until mamma does." Such a course tends to make mam- 
ma herself very careful in this respect, as the course recommended in the 
case of thoughtlessly-made threats causes her to make very few of them. 
There is great need of such care and watchfulness on the part of both par- 
ents, and discipline of that sort cannot be too highly commended. Happy 
is the mother who can say to her little boy, " You must not smoke nor swear 
nor drink nor abuse dumb brutes until papa does !" It is to be hoped that 
the time is not far distant when girls will think of that before they marry, 
and not choose a husband who has habits that they would not want their 
boy to copy. 

Tlie wise mother will teach her child to amuse himself. To do this she 
must begin the first of week his life. Every time she takes him up to 
play with him when he is lying quietly looking around, she is teaching 
him a habit that will have to be broken when he is older and she does not 
feel that she can give the best part of her time to amusing him. It is won- 
derful how independent a little baby may become in that respect if you only 
give him an opportunity. Be sure that he is comfortable, and change his 
position often enough so that he will not become tired, and then let him 
alone. It is the best way in the world to avoid having a nervous baby. He 
will not be so precocious as he would if played with, but he will be less 
troublesome and much stronger and healthier, ;ind, as has been said before^ 
and should be said often, when his brain power is called into service it will 
not fail him. 

A well-padded box is a very nice convenience for the baby who is to be 
taught to amuse himself, and should be provided for him as soon as he 
begins to pull himself up on his leet. Have the sides just high enough for 
him to hold to as he tries to walk and put extra thicknesses of padding there, 
so that, when he falls, he will not hurt his head by striking it against the 
sharp edges. Fasten pretty, bright balls at tlie cornei-s, and put his play- 
things inside the box. He will have great fun throwing them out, but it 
will take you only a moment to i-eplace them, and baby will amuse himself 
for a long time. This contrivance is to be recommended for several reasons : 
It keeps him off the floor where he is liable to get hurt, or to pick up things 
that, if swallowed, might injure him, or to take cold ; he teaches himself to 
walk ; you can work without woi-ry, for you know he is safe ; and he learns 
to depend on himself for amusement. 

There is another nursery contrivance that is to be recommended, and 
which will be found i;sefal when he begins to walk. It is a pen made of 
slats and having castors attached. It is made too high for the child to climb 
over, and is so light that it is easily rolled about the floor, and saves the 
little one many a fall ; indeed, it is a perfect protection for him in many 
ways, and is recommended to the mother who is to teach her child this first 
lesson in independence — to amuse himself. 

The next thing of importance to teach the baby is thoughtfulness for 
ot'iers, Attheeame time teach him to be gentle in his treatment of dumb 



TEE NUlibERY. 17D 

brutes. Begin as soon as he is old enough to enjoy having the kitten put 
into his lap, and never let an act of cruelty go unreproved. The very acta 
that look so cunning in the baby spring from instincts which, if allowed to 
grow, will prompt to actions in the man that would cause you to turn from 
him in disgust and horror 

Restrain the little hands when they stroke kitty too energetically, say- 
ing "No, no, baby hurts kitty," or something to that efifect, being careful 
alw'avs to use the same words. He will learn, very young, what is meant, 
and "soon it will not be necessary to hold his hands, as he will know what 
it means when you tell him not to hurt kitty. In the same way he can be 
taught to be careful of the feelings ofotbers. "Baby makes mamma sor- 
ry" may be used as effectively when he is naughty, as the other speech 
when he is rough with his playmates or dumb companions. I have seen 
children two years old who were allowed to pull hair, scratch, strike, and 
bite. They were not reproved because the mother was so sure that baby 
would outgrow such habits, and it would be useless to notice them now. 
He may cease to show his temper in just that way, but the feeling that 
prompts him to kick and bite is not going to be outgi-own when it is given 
every opportunity for development, and I cannot see how a mother can be 
so blind as not to realize that fact. 

I have seen moihers laugh when their two-year-old boy whipped his 
rocking-horse with all his strength, but would they have laughed had they 
stopped to think seriously about it ? Mothers make a great mistake when 
they let such opportunities to exert a good influence pass unnoticed, and 
because of that they are really to be blamed for the part of the cruelty 
shown by men. 

It is easy to teach a child to be polite when you begin early, and hard 
when you wait until he has formed ideas of his own regarding the neces- 
sity of politeness. It is with that, as with other tilings ; more can be done 
during the first three years of a child's life toward training him in the way 
you wish him to go, than can be done in the next ten years, if he has 
reached his third year with no more training than that which is usually 
accorded to babies. 

The necessity of refinement in all' dealings with children cannot be too 
strongly insisted on. Teach them personal reserve, a characteristic that 
cannot be too carefully clierished. Never criticise people before a little 
child, more particularly those who supply his wants. No one can be truly 
courteous unless he has been taught to have a genuine respect for human- 
ity. It requires a great deal of tact to tell a child that you do not wish him 
to play witn another cliild whose talk or actions you do not approve of; 
such information tends to make a child insufferably egotistical. 

A mother should never say that she cannot have articles of beauty in 
her rooms because the children destroy them. She need have no occasion 
for saying anything of the sort, unless she is indolent ; for properly-train- 
ed children are not allowed to destroy things. When a child is old enough 
to creep be should understand what it means to be told that " baby must 
not touch that," and should be taught to have a regard for the rights of 
others. 

I knew a little girl who, when only two years of age, would clasp her 
hands behind her back in order not to be tempted into touching something 
that she particularly admired, but knew that she must not have. None of 
the neighbors were afraid to liave her go alone into their daintily fumish- 
e4 rooms, tor they knew that their pretty trifles would be uudistiirbed, 



180 THE NURSERY. 

She was taught that regard for others without having received a blow or 
a harsh word : yet she was uo more easily trained than any child may !>• 
— having a strong will and a nervous organization, and being an only child 
petted by all who knew her. 

Parents should guard against exhibitions of temper in their little ones. 
I believe that many children are made naughty by injudicious training. 
There are few children who can be easily forced into obedience, while near- 
ly all may be led. I have seen children obey a command that they dare 
not disobey, but in such a way that it would have been hard to eay which 
was preferable— suc/i obedience, or bare-faced disobedience. 

When you see that your little one is fretful and unhappy, do not provoke 
him to wrath. Such conduct on the part of parents is unwise and wrong. 
A wise parent will not enter into quarrels with a baby, neither will he dom- 
ineer over him because he can. 

So much of the happiness and comfort of the family and friends de- 
pends upon the deportment of the children, that parents cannot give too 
careful attention to their training : and though much time, tact and pa- 
tience will be required, remember that there is no greater work. 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 



BY MRS. A. K. STAUFFEH.' 



Medallion Lace.— No. 30 thread and the usual novelty braid, with six 
loops on each side and a cord between. Fasten in the first loop and chain 
3, which is counted as first treble, and make another treble in the same 
loop. * Chain 3, skip 1 loop, 2 trebles in next. Chain 3, 2 trebles in next, 
without skipping. Chain 3, skip a loop, 2 trebles in last and 2 trebles in 
first loop of next medallion. Kepeat to the end of the length required. 
Then you can either break the thread or make this same pattern on the other 
aide of the braid. 




MEDALLION LACE AND INSERTION. 



The second row above has 1 double in each 3 chain with 5 chain be- 
tween. 

The third row has 3 trebles in each 5 chain with 3 cliain between. 

The fourth row has 3 trebles in the chain between the trebles with 3 
chain between. 

For the lower edge, fasten in the first 3 chain. Chain 3 and make one 
treble in same. * Chain 3. Make 2 double trebles (that is, thread over 
twice) in the middle chain. Repeat twice. Then chain 3, 2 trebles in third 
chain and 2 trebles in the first chain of next figure. Repeat. 

• From the Ladtes' Woria, by permission of Messrs. S. H. Moore i Co. 



182 Lace making and crochet. 

The third row has 1 double iu the first chain. * Chain 3, 1 double be- 
tween the double trebles. Chain 3, 1 double in next chain. Repeat, and 
make a chain of 3 between the 2 scallops. This is a very durable trim- 
ming. 

A neat insertion with this braid has 4 double trebles iu the first, third, 
fourth and sixth loops, keeping the top stitches on the needle and working 
off with the fourth stitch. Both sides of the braid are similarly worked, and 
then a row of chain stitches made on both sides. Fasten where the double 
trebles meet between the medallions, and chain about 5 stitches, and make 
1 double in the next double trebles and repeat to the end of the row. Then 
turn and make 1 treble in every second or third stitch with 2 chain between, 
and if a wider insertion is desired, add more rows of these trebles with 2 
chain between. 

Croclieted Shoulder Cape.— Chain of ninety stitches; two treble 
stitches iu third and fourth chain stitch from end ; three treble stitches in 
next chain stitch ; two treble stitches in next two chain stitches. You now 
have one scallop. Skip two chain stitches and make two treble stitches in 
two next chain stitches ; three treble in next stitch, and keep on doing this 
till you have eleven scallops. Chain one and fasten into the third chain 
stitch from last treble stitch with a ring stitch. Chain two, turn, make 
two treble stitches right over the two treble in first row. Then make five 
treble right over the middle of the three in first row ; two more treble in 
next two stitches. Skip one as you did in first row, and continue this way 
till you get to the end. Chain one and fasten with single stitch, so as to 
leave a space as you did iu first row ; chain two, turn ; in this row put three 
treble stitches on each side of scallop aud three iu the middle, right over 
the middle stitch of the five treble stitches iu the mi Idle of scallop in sec- 
ond row. Next row, three trebles on each side of scallop and five in the 
middle. Next row, four on oach si'le of the scallop and three in the 
middle. Every time yon make five stitches iu the center of scallop it 
widens two stitcnes. Ki'ep doing this till your cape conifs to tip of the 
shoulder ; then conliuue with three s:itches in center of scallop till it is 
long enough. If you put fringe on it, it should come to within a finger's 
length of the waist ; if you scallop it, longer. It takes four small size 
skeins of Saxony or three large size, or four skeins of drmantown to make 
it. In the spaces between the scallops run narrow ribbon of same or con- ■ 
trasting color of cape. 

These directions are perfectly reliable, and the cape a desirable addition 
to any one's wardrobe. 

NecU RucUiiig. — The materials required are novelty braid, like a piece 
of narrow linen tape, with holes on either side instead of loops, and a ball 
of crochet cotton No. 70, either white ecru or red, as individual fancy dic- 
tates. Get the requisite length for the neck and sleeves and hem the ends 
neatly to prevent raveling. 

Fasten the thread in a hole. Ciiain 4 for first stitch, * skip one hole, 1 
treble in the next. Chain 1. Repeat from *. When you have done this, do 
not cut off the thread. Chain 4. Turn the work and make a row of double 
trebles in the space made by the one chain of last row (that is, thread over 
twice). Turn again, and beginning at the top, make 12 trebles on the bar 
formed by the double trebles going down on one bar and up on the other— 
antil the "double trebles are all covered with the 12 trebles. 



LACE MAKING AND CROCIlEr. 



183 



Leaf edging, — C.i8t ou fourteen atitchi s. 

Ist Row : Widen, knit one, widen, knit two, narrow twice, kuit two, 
widen ; narrow, widen, narrow, knit one. Every alternate row seam across, 
slipping first stitch. 

3d Row : Widen, knit three, widen, knit one, narrow twice, knit one, 
widen, narrow, widen, narrow, knit one. 

5th Row : Widen, knit five, widen, narrow twice, widen, narrow, widen, 
narrow, knit one. 

7th Row : Widen, knit three, narrow, kuit two, widen, narrow, widen, 
narrow, widen, narrow, knit one. 

Vandylte Lace, with Braid.— IJse No. 8 spool cotton .lud novelty 
braid for the foundation. 

Ist. Fasten in fifth loop. Chain two. Make one double in the follow- 
ing second loop. Chain three. Turn. 

2d. Make four trebles over the chain of two. Chain two. One treble in 
second loop. Chain five. Turn. 

3d. One treble in tlie first of the four trebles. Chain two. Four trebles 




VANDYKE LACE, WITH BBAID. 

after the trebles in the space formed by the three chain. One double in 
the third loop of braid. Chain two. One double in the second loop. 
Chain three. Turn. 

4th. Four trebles in chain. Chain two. Four trebles in hole after the 
trebles. Chain two. One treble in third of five chain. Chain five. Turn. 

5th. One treble in the first of four trebles. Chain two. One treble in 
the last of four trebles. Chain two. One treble in the first treble. Chain 
two. Four trebles in the last. One double in the third loop. Chain two. 
One double in second loop. Chain three. Turn. 

6th. Four trebles on the chain of two. Chain two. One treble in the 
last of four trebles. Chain five. Turn. Repeat from the third row. 
There are two ways of finishing the lower edge. 

For a heavy scallop : Make one double, three trebles and one double in 
each hole, adding two more trebles at the point — or make two doubles. 
Chain three, one double in each hole, and at the point make * two doubles, 
three chain. Repeat twice, ending with one double. 

For the upper edge : Fasten to a loop. Chain three for the first stitch. 



184 



LACE MAKING AND CliOCHEl. 



* Wrap the thread twice on the hook. Catch the next loop and draw the 
thread through. This makes four stitchea on the needle. Thread over. 
Draw through two. Tliread over. Catch the next loop. Five stitcheB on 
needle. Thread over. Draw through two. Tliread over. Draw through 
two. Thread over. Draw through three. Chain two. Repeat from *. 

Insertion and Bntton-hole Point. — No. 40 ecru linen thread. 

Chain thirty. Turn. 

Ist. One treble in seventh stitch. Chain two. One treble in following 
third stitch. Chain six, skip five. Make one double in sixth stitch. Chain 




INSERTION AND BUTTON-HOLE POINT. 



three. One double in next. Chain three. One double in next. Chain 
six, skip five. One treble iu sixth stitch. Chain two, one treble in third 
stitch. Chain two, skip two, one treble in last. Chain five. Turn. 

2d. One treble in next treble. Chain two, one treble in next treble. 
Chain three. One double in fourth stitch of chain. Seven trebles in first 
space formed by three chain of last row. Seven trebles in next space. One 
double in second chain stitch. Cliain three, one treble in first treble. Chain 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 185 

two, one treble in next treble. Cbaiu two, one treble iu third atitcb of obaiu 
at the end. Chain five. Turn. 

3d. One treble in first treble. Chain two, one treble in second treble. 
Chain six. One double in the seventh treble of center. Chain three. Ono 
double in the eighth treble. Chain three. One double in the ninth treble. 
Chain six, one treble in the first treble to form the holes on the sides. Chain 
two, one treble in next treble. Chain two, one treble at end. * Chain five. 
Make one double at the end of the last row to form a loop for the first scal- 
lop in the point. Turn and make eight doubles in this loop to imitate but- 
ton-hole stitch, one treble in treble at the end. Chain two. 

4th. Like the second. 

5th. Like the third to *. Chain five. One double at end for second 
scallop. Turn and make four doubles. Chain five. Turn. Make one 
double between the third and fourth stitches of the first scallop. Turn 
again. Make eight doubles in the chain for second row of scallops, and 
make four doubles in the second scallop of first row to finish it, one treble 
ill treble at end. Chain two. 

6th. Like the second. 

7th. Like the third to *. After making the last treble, chain five. Make 
one double in same place. Turn. Make four doubles. Chain five. Turn. 
One double in cent' r of the last scallop of first row. Turn. Make four 
double-i in loop. Chain five. Turn. Make one double iu the center of 
scallop in second row. Turn. * Make eight doiibles in this chain for third 
row and four doubles to finish each of the two half-finished scallops of the 
first two rows. One treble at the end. Chain two. 

8th. Like the secoml. 

9th. Like the third to *, and like the seventh to *. Make four doubles. 
Chain five. Turn. One double in centre of scallop in third row. Turn. 
Eiglit doubles, ann finish the other three, with four doubles, one treble at 
end. Chain two. 

10th. Like the second. 
■ 11th. Like the third and seventh rows to the stars. Four doubles. Chain 
five. Turn. One double in center. Turn. Four doubles. Cliain five. 
One double in center of fourth row. Turn. Eight doubles and four doubles 
in each of the unfinished scallops. One treble at end. Chain two. 

12th. Like the second. 

13th. Repeat third and seventh rows. Then four doubles. Chain five. 
One double in fourth row. Turn. Four doubles. Chain five. One double 
ill fifth row. Turn. Eiglit doubles for the sixth and last scallop and four 
doubles ill each of the unfinished scallops. One treble at end. Chain two. 

14th. Repeat second and third rows to *. Then cliain two and make a 
row of trebles round the entire point with two chain between. These will 
come in every second stitch or in the center and at the end of a half scal- 
lop. There will be twenty-five holes. There must be four trebles at the 
point, not including the trebles on either side at beginning and end of the 
scallop. At tbe end of the twenty-fifth hole catch to the insertion with one 
double. Then chain three. Turn. Make one treble in first hole in the 
point. * Chain four. Fasten back with one double in the first chain stitch. 
Repeat twice from *. Make the three doubles in same. Chain three. One 
double in next hole. Chain three. One treble in next hole, and repeat 
from * until you have thirteen of these leaves around the point, six on each 
side and one at the top. End with one double in the treble of the insertion, 
and repeat the second and third to the * three times before beginning an- 



186 lAOE MAKINfi ANT) CROCHE'r. 

other point. Join by the center loops of first leaf. Make a similar roW 
for top. 

Punnet Lace.— Make a chain of 22 stitches. 

1st Row : One double crochet in sixth chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet 
in eighth chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in tenth chain. Chain 2, 1 
double crochet in twelfth chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in fourteenth 
chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in sixteenth chain. Chain 2, 1 double 
crochet in eighteenth chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in twentieth chain. 
Chain 2, 1 double crochet in twenty-second chain. 

2d Row : Cham 5, double crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double, 
crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double crochet in double crochet. 
Chain 2, 3 double crochets in chain 2. Chain 2, double crochet in double 



^'S;5:w5n::x^^'--r- 















PUNNET LACE. 

crochet. Chain 2, double crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double 
crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double crochet in end. 

3d Row : Cliain 5, double ci'ochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double 
crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, 3 double crochets in chain 2, 1 double 
crochet in double crochet, 3 doable crochets in chain 2. Chiin 2, double 
crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double crochet in double crochet. 
Chain 2, double crochet in end. 

4th Row : Chain 5. double crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, 3 double 
crochets in chain 2, 5 double crochets in double crochets, 3 double crochets 
in chain 2. Chain 2, double crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double 
crochet in end 

5th Row : Chain 5, 3 double crochets in chain 2, 9 double crochets in 
double crochets, 3 double crochets in chain 2. Chain 2, double crochet in 
end. 

6th Row ; Chain 5, 7 double crochets in double crochets. Chain 2, skip 



lACE MAKll^a AND CHOVHUf. 187 

1 double crochet and double crochet in remainiug 7 double crochets. Chain 
2, double crochet in end. Chain 10, fasten in preceding row. 

7th Kow : Eight double crochets. Chain 3, 8 double crochets in chain 10. 
Chain 2, 15 double crochets in double ci-ochets. Chain 2, double crochet in 
end. 

8th Row : Chain 5, double crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, 11 double 
crochets in double crochets. Chain 2, double crochet in double crochet. 
Chain 2, double crochet in end, double crochet in every double crochet of 
scallop with 2 double crochets. Chain 3, 2 double crochets in chain 3 of 
scallop. 

9th Row : Double crochet in every double crochet of scallop with 2 
double crochets. Chain 3, 2 double crochets in chain 3 of scallop. Chain 2, 
double ci'ochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double crochet in double 
crochet. Chaiu 2, 7 double crochets in double crochets Chain 2, double 
crochet in double crochet. Chaiu 2, double crochet in double crochet. Chain 
2, double crocliet in end. 

10th Row : Chain 5, double crochet in double crochet. Chain 2, double 
crochet in doable ci'ochet. Chain 2, double crochet in double crochet. 
Chain 2, 3 double crocliets in double crochets. Chain 2, double crochet in 
double crochet. Cliain 2, double crochet iu double crochet. Chain 2, double 
crochet in double crochet. Chaiu 2, double crochet in end. Chain 2, double 
crochet iu every other double crochet of scallop with chaiu 3 in chain 3. 

11th Row : One single crochet, 2 double crochets. 1 single crochet in 
every chain 2 of scallop. * Chaiu 2, double crochet in double crochet. Re- 
peat from * to end of row. 

Repeat from second row. 

Crochet Under-skirt— A seasonable bit of fancy-work just now, and 
one suited especially for an invalid woi'ker, is a crochet petticoat, the direc- 
tions for which are as follows. The material needed will be one pound of 
Berlin wool, white or colored. The abbreviations in directions are : D. C, 
double crochet ; S. C, single crochet ; Ch., chain. This petticoat will be 31 
in. long and 69 3-8 iu. wide below, and it will have a band, which is worked 
80 simply that it may easily be made larger or smaller. The crochet for 
this band is begun at the lower edge, and executed in rows of S. C, made 
backward and forward. The foundation is of 194 Ch., and this gives a 
width of 43 3-8 in. In 21 rows the num ber of stitches is to be reduced to 
130. The 22d row is crocheted of 2 double D. C. and 2 Ch., made alter- 
nately (through this row is put a piece of elastic 25 3-4 in. long and 3-4 in. 
wide), while the 23d and last row consists of S. C. A row of S. C. secures 
the back edges of the band, closed with two buttons and button-holes made 
in the elastic, and deeper down in the crochet. In crocheting on the skirt 
part, the back edges of the band are first put 3-4 in. over each other (here 
the stitches are to be caught up two-fold, later on), and then in the founda- 
tion closed to a round. The first row is worked as follows : * 1 S. C, 1 half 
D. C, always in one stitch ; 1 D. C. and 1 double D. C, together in one 
stitch ; 1 double D. C. and 1 single D. C, together in one stitch ; 1 half D. 
C. and 1 S. C. again, always in one stitch. Repeat from star. 

In the second row the wavy Vandyke pattern is begun, this being com- 
posed only of S. C. ; for the points two stitches are always passed over in 
each hollow, and at the top three crocheted in one stitch. An increase of 
stitches will not be required, as the crochet is so elastic. Seventy-two rows 
give the length, which is 23 3-4 in. on the skirt proper. 



188 



lACM MAKING AND CHOCHM. 



Tuiii-iisiii Liace.— Cast on fifteen stitches, knit across plain. First rovt 
— Kuit three, over, narrow, knit three, over, knit one, over, knit six. Sec- 
ond row — Knit six, over, knit three, over, narrow, knit three, over, narrow, 
knit one. Third row— Kuit three, over, narrow, over, narrow, over, knit 
five, over, knit six. Fourtli row — Bind off five, knit one, over, narrow, knit 
three, narrow, over, narrow, knit one, over, narrow, knit one. Fifth row — 
Knit three, over, narrow, knit one, over, narrow, knit one, narrow, over, 
knit three. Sixth row— Knit three, over, knit one, over, slip two, knit one, 
bind over the two slipped stitches, over, knit four, over, narrow, knit one. 

"Wlieel liace Chain 12. 1 double in fourth stitch. Chain 5, 1 double 

in fourth stitch. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Chain 5, 1 double in the last 
stitch of the chain of 12. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Chain 5. Turn. 




WHEEL LAOS. 



2d. 1 double in (he 5 chain. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Chain 5, 1 
double in the next 5 chain. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Chain 5. Turn. 

3d. Like the second. 

4th. Like the second, but fasten the last chain 5 in the loop at the end of 
the first row with 1 double. 

5th. * Chain 10 and form into a wheel by fastening with a slip stitch in 
the second of the 10 chain. Chain 3 for the first treble. Turn. Make 2 
trebles in the circle just formed. Chain 2. Make 1 double on the side of 
the second treble to form a loop on the edge. 3 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double 
on the side of third treble. 3 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double on the side of 3 
trebles, and then make 3 trebles again. This makes half of a wlieel — 
that is, 12 trebles with 3 loops on the edge. Chain 10 again and repeat from 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 189 

♦ to form a Becond half wheel. Chain 10 the third time and make a whole 
wheel, consisting of 21 trebles with 6 loops on the edge, according to the 
directions given in this tifth row. You end the wheel with 3 trebles, and 
fasten in the 3 chain at the beginning with a slip stitch, and then make 1 
double in the last treble of the unfinished second wheel. Then make 3 
trebles with the loop on the third, and finish this and the last wheel like the 
first, except that these two wheels contain 24 trebles with 6 loops on edge. 
After fastening the top wheel with a slip stitch, chain 5, 1 double in the sec- 
ond of the 5 chain in the heading. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Eepeat 
once. Chain 5 and turn. 

6th. 1 double in the 5 chain. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Chain 5, 1 
double in the next chain. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Then chain 5 and 
make a row of loops around the 3 wheels, * fastening with 1 double between 
the first and second loops. Chain 5 and fasten between the second and 
third loops. Chain 5 and repeat from *, and in the last wheel fasten be- 
tween each loop, so that there four loops of 5 chain. Tlien chain 5 and 
make 1 loop on the middle wheel. Chain 5 and make one loop en the top 
wheel. Cliain 5 and fasten in the end loop of the top border. Turn. 

7th. 1 double in the 5 chain. Chain 2, 1 double in same. Make a row 
of 5 chain, 1 double. Chain 2, 1 double in same in every loop of last row. 
There will be 16, which brings you to the top of the border. Then chain 5. 
Turn and make 5 rows like the second. Then begin at the fifth row. After 
making another pomt of three wheels with the first row of loops finished, 
you will then have to ftisteu the two points together. Chain 2 from the top 
wheel and make 1 double in the 5 chain of the border. Chain 2. Hold the 
first point towards you and make 1 double in the first loop. * Chain 2. 
Make 1 double in the opposite loop of the second point in the chain of the 
first wheel. Chain 2, 1 double in next loop of the first point, and repeat 
from * twice. The points are joined 4 times and then finished with the 
loops and 6 chain like the first. 

Single Spicier Web Lace, •»vith Kdge. — Chain 23. Turn. 

Ist. One treble in eighth stitch * Chain 2. One treble in third stitch. 
Repeat Irom * until there are five loops or holes. Make three trebles in the 
last three stitches. You will then have four trebles together. Chain 11. 
Turn. 

2d. Skip 8 of the 11 chain, and make 4 trebles— that is, three in the last 
three chain stUches and one in the first treble of last row. Chain 2, skip 2. 
Make one treble in the last treble, two trebles in the two chain stitches and 
one treble in the next treble. Chain 2. One treble in next treble, and re- 
peat to make four loops, having the last treble in the third stitch of chain 
at the end. Chain 5. Turn. 

3d. One treble in first treble. Chain 2. One treble in next. Repeat for 
3 loops. Then four trebles together. Chain 4. One long stitch in the cen- 
ter loop, between the two groups of trebles— that is, thread over three 
times and work off like ordinary trebles. Chain 4. Make 4 trebles— one 
in the last treble and one in each of the first 3 chain stitclies. Chain 11. Turn. 

4th. Skip 8. Make 4 trebles as before in the last 3 chain stitches and 
first treble. Chain 6. Skip 6 stitches. Make 3 doubles in next three stitches, 
80 that the center stitch comes in the extra long stitch. Chain 6. Skip 6. 
Make 4 trebles in next four stiiches. Cliain 2. 1 treble in next. Repeat 
for 2 loops, the last treble coming as before iu the third of the 5 chain at 
end. Chain 5. Tura. 



190 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 



5th. 1 loop, 4 trebles. Chain 6. Skip 8 stitches. 5 doubles in next five 
stitches — that is, one in each of the three doubles acd one on either side. 
Chain 6, skip 8. Make 4 trebles. Chain 5. Turn. This is to reduce the 
point. 

6th. 1 treble in last treble, and 1 in each of 3 chain. Chain 6. 3 doubles 
in center of the 5 doubles. Chain 6, skip 4, Make 4 trebles in next four 
stitches. Chain 2. 1 treble in last treble. Chain 2. 1 treble in third of 
chain. Chain 5. Turn. 

7th. 3 loops. 4 trebles. Chain 4. 1 long stitch in center of 3 doubles. 
Chain 4. Make 4 trebles. Chain 5. Turn. 

8th, 4 trebles. Chain 2, skip 3, 4 trebles, 4 loops. Chain 5, Turn. 




SINGLE SPIDER WEB LACE, WITH EDGE, 



9th. 5 loops, 4 trebles, in the last treble, 1 in each of the 2 chain and 1 
the first treble. Chain 11. Turn. 

Begin at the second row. 

For the edge : 

Ist. Make 1 double treble (that is, thread over twice) in the side of the 
treble between two points, or, in other words, at the end of the shortest 
row. Chain 3. 1 double in next loop. Chain 3. 1 treble in the corner be- 
tween two groups of trebles. Chain 4. 1 double in next loop. Chain 5. 1 
double in the side of the treble at the point. Chain 5. 1 double in loop. 
Chain 4. 1 treble in the corner between two groups of trebles. Cliain 3. 1 
double in loop. Chain 3. Repeat from the 1 double treble at the begin- 
ning of this row until you reach the end of the desired length. Turn. 

2d. 1 double under the first three chain. Cliain 3. 1 double under next 
chain. Chain 3. 1 double under next chain. * Cliain 5. 1 double in next 
chain. Eepeat twice fi-om *. Then twice make 3 chain under the chains. 
Chain 2. Bepeat froni beginniug of second row. Turn, 



LACE 2IAKIA'G AaVD CliOCHET. 



191 



3d. 1 double under first 3 chain. Chain 1. 1 treble in next chain. This 
begins a scallop witU picot edge. * Chain 3. Make 1 double on the side 
of the treble. 1 treble in same 3 chain. Bepeat twice from *. Chain 1. 1 
double in next chain of five. Chain 2. 1 treble in next chain. You now 
begin tlie second scallop. * Chain 4. 1 double on the side of the treble. 
1 treble in same chain Repeat twice from second *. Chain 2. 1 double 
in next chain. Chain 1. 1 treble in next chain — and this begins tlie third 
scallop. * Chain 3. 1 double in the side of the treble. 1 treble in same 
chain. Repeat twice from third *. Chain 1. 1 double under next chain. 
Skip 2 chain over the double treble and repeat from the beginning of third 
row. The pattern is complete without the edge for tidies, and more grace- 
ful with the edge for trimming dresses or aprons. 

Beaver Lace. — Make a chain of 20 stitches. 

1. Double crochet in sixth chain. Chain 2, 3 double crochets in eighth 
chain. Chain 1, 1 double crochet in same chain. Chain 2, double crochet 




BEAVER LACE. 



in tenth chain. Chain 2, 3 double crochets in twelfth chain. Chain 1, 1 
double crochet in same chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in fourteenth 
chain. Chain 2, 3 double crochets in sixteenth chain. Chain 1, 1 double 
crochet in same chain. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in eighteenth chain. 
Chain 2, 1 double crochet in twentieth chain. Turn. 

2. Chain 5, 1 double crochet in double crochet. * Chain 2, 3 double 
crochets in 1 chain. Chain 1, 1 double crochet in same. Chain 2, 1 double 
crochet in double crochet. Repeat from * twice. Chain 2, 1 double crochet 
m end. Chain 7, fasten in last row. Turn. 

3. Thirteen single crochets in chain of 7. Chain 2, double crochet in 
double crochet. * Chain 2, 3 double crochets in 1 chain. Chain 1, 1 double 
crochet in same. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in double crochet. Repeat 
from * twice. Chain 2, 1 double crochet in end. Turn. 

. 4. Like the secoucj. 



192 LACE MAKING AND CROUHET. 

6. Like the third. 

6. Like tho second. 

7. Like the third. 

8. Like the second. 

9. Six single crochets in chain of 7. Turn. * Chain 7, fasten in seventh 
single crochet of next scallop. Repeat from * twice. Tuxn. Thirteen sin- 
gle crochets in chain 7, 13 single crochets in chain 7, 6 single crochets in 
chain 7. Turn. Chain 7, fasten in seventh single crochet of next scallop. 
Chain 7, fasten in seventh single crochet of next scallop. Turn. Thirteen 
single crochets in chain 7, 6 single crochets in chain 7. Turn. Chain 7, 
fasten in seventh single crochet of next scallop. Turn. Thirteen single 
crochets in chain 7. * Six single crochets in next scallop. Eepeat from * 
twice. Finish row like third row. 

Eepeat from second row. 

Single Chain and SUell Insertion. — Chain 38. 

1. One treble in fourth stitch. Chain 2, skip 2. One treble in each of 
next 2. Chain 2, skip 3. One double in next, skip 2. Five trebles in next 
(called shell for brevity in the succeeding row?), skip 2. One double in 
next. Chain 5, skip 5. One double in next, skip 2. Five trebles in next, 
skip 2. One double in next. Chain 2, skip 2. One treble in each of next 
2. Chain 2, skip 2. One treble in each of next 2. Chain 3. 

2. One treble in second treble. Chain 2. One treble in each of next 2 
trebles. This is always the same at the beginning and end of a row. Chain 
5. One double in center of shell — and make a shell in the next double ; 
then make 1 double in the center of 5 chain. Chain 5, 1 double in center of 
shell. Chain 5, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

3. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double in center of chain. 
Chain 5, 1 double in center of chain. Shell in next double. One double in 
shell. (Always in center of shell or chun.) Chain 5, 1 double in chain. 
Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

4. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. Chain 5. 

1 double in shell. Shell in next double. One double in chain. Chain 5, 2 
trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

5. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2. One double in chain. 
Shell in next double. One double in shell. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. 
Shell in next double. One double in chain. Chain 2, 2 trebles". Chain 2, 

2 trebles. Chain 3. i ,i ^i • c 

6. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 5, 1 double m shell. Cham 5, 
1 double in chain. Shell in next double. One double m shell. Cham 5, 2 
trebles. Chain 2, 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. ■ u ■ k 

7. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 doubls in chain. Cham 5, 
1 double in shell. Shell in next double. One double in chain. Cliain 5, 1 
double in chain. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

8. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. Shell m 
next double. One double in shell. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. Chain 5, 2 
trebles. Chain 2. 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

9. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double in chain. Shell in 
next double. One double in chain. Chain 5, 1 double in shell. Shell in 
next double. One double in chain. Cham 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles, 
Chain 3. 

Eepeat from second row, 



LAPE MAKING 'AND CROVHET. 



193 



Pointed Edge to Matcli Insertion— Chain 33. 

1. One treble in fourtb stitch. Chain 2, skip 2. One treble in each of 
next 2 stitches. Chain 2, skip 3. One double iu next. Chain 5 skip 5 
One double in next. Skip 2. Five trebles called shell in next ' Skip 2 




SINGLE CHAIN AND SHELL LACE AND INSEETION. 

One double in next. Chain 5, skip 5. One double in next. Skip 2. Shell 
in last. Chain 5. 

2. One double in center of shell. Shell in double after first shell to 



194 LACE MAKIXG AXD CROCHET. 

make a row of shells diagonally. Oue double in center of chain. Chain 5, 

1 double in sliell. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. Chain 5, 2 trebles iu the 
trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles in the end. Chain 3, 

3. One treble in treble. Chiiiu 2, 2 trebles in trebles. This is always 
the same at the top. Chain 2, 1 double in chain. * Chain 5. One dou- 
ble always in the center of chain or shell, as the pattern requires. Re- 
peat once. Shell iu double and double in shell. Chain 5, 1 double m 
chain. Chain 5. 

4. Shell in double to begin pointed edge. Double in chain. Chain 5, 
double in shell. Shell in double after shell. This is always the formula, 
and a great deal of unnecessary repelition could be avoided if this could be 
remembered. One double in chain. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. Chain 5, 

2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

5. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double. Chain 5, 1 double. 
Shell in double and double in shell. Chain 5, 1 double in chain. Shell in 
double and double in shell. Shell in the 5 chain after last shell. Chain 5. 

6. Shell iu first treble of shell. Ouo double iu center of same shell. 
Chain 5, 1 double in next shell. Shell in double, 1 double in chain. Chain 
5, 1 double in shell. Shell in double, 1 double in chain. ' Chain 5, 2 trebles. 
Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

7. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double. Chain 5, 1 double. 
Shell in double and double iu chain. Chain 5, double in shell and shell iu 
double. Double in chain. Shell in double. Doulile in shell. Chain 3. 

8. Double in first shell. Shell in double and double in second shell. 
Chain 5, double in chain. Shi 11 iu double and double in shell. Chain 5, 
double. Chain 5, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 3. 

9. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double. * Chain 5, 1 
double. Eepeat once. Sliell iu double and double in chain. Chain 5, 1 
double iu shell. Chain 5. 

10. Oue double in chain. Shell in double and double in shell. * Chain 
5, 1 double. Eepeat twice, ending with the trebles in top. Chain 3. 

11. One treble. Chain 2, 2 trebles. Chain 2, 1 double. Chain 5, 1 
double. Shell in double and double iu chain. Chain 5, double in shell. 
Shell iu double. Double in chain at the end. Chain 5. 

Begin at second row. 

This edge, with the insertion sewed to a four-inch band of ecru linen 
or momie cloth, is suitable for a bureau scarf. The edges are turned in 
and the band doubled. Sew the other side of the insertion to the center, 
which should be about one and a half or two yards long. 

Tortoise Shell Lace. — Cast on 10 stitches. Knit across plain. 

1. Slip 1, knit 1 ; thread over, narrow ; thread over, narrow ; thread 
over 3 times, narrow ; thread over twice ; purl 2 together. 

2. Thread over twice, purl 2 together ; knit 2, purl 1 iu loop ; knit 1, 
purl 1 ; knit 1, purl 1 ; knit 2. 

3. Slip 1, knit 1 ; thread over, narrow ; knit 1 ; thread over, narrow ; 
knit 4 ; thread over twice ; purl 2 together. 

4. Thread over twice, purl 2 together ; liuit 5, purl 1 ; knit 2, purl 1 ; 
knit 2. 

5. Slip 1, knit 1 ; thread over, narrow ; knit 2 ; thread over, narrow ; 
knit 3 ; thread over ; purl 2 together. 

6. Thread over twice, purl 2 together ; knit 4, purl 1 ; knit 3, purl 1 ; 
knit 2, 



LACE MAKING AND G iOCIIET. 195 

7. Slip 1, knit 1, over, narrow ; knit 3, over, narrow ; knit 2, over twice ; 
purl 2 together. 

8. Over twice, purl 2 together ; knit 3, purl 1 ; knit 4, purl 1 ; knit 2. 

9. Slip 1, knit 1, over, narrow ; knit 4, over, narrow ; knit 1, over twice ; 
purl 2 together. 

10. Over twice, purl 2 together ; knit 2, purl 1 ; knit 5, purl 1 ; knit 2. 




TORTOISE SHELL LACE : KNITTING. 

11. Slip 1, knit 1, over, narrow ; knit 5, over, narrow ; over twice ; purl 
2 together. 

12. Cast (iff 3 stitchea. Place the remaining stitch on the right-hand 
needle on the left-haud needle ; then, over 2, purl 2 together ; knit 5, purl 
1 ; kuit 1. Repeat. 

Peacock's Tail Pattern.— Among elaborate and fanciful stitches not 
found in every kiiittiug-book is the peacock's tail pattern, which makes up 
very prettily in stripes for sofa cushion covers and other purposes. It is 
done as follows : 

Cast on wooden or ivory needles a number of stitches divisible by nine, 
as it takes nine stitches for each pattern and two for eacii border ; the bor- 
der, which ia in plain knitting, will not be mentioned after the first row, so 
allowance must be made for its plain knitting ; that is, tlie knitter must not 
omit the plain stitches required on either side for the border. 

First Ri>w. — Two plain for border ; two plain, * make one, one plain, re- 
peat this four times from *, make one, two plain ; repeat from the begin- 
ning, then two plain for the boi-der. 

Second Row.— Remember border. Two purl, eleven plain, two purl ; 
repeat. 

Third Row.— T.ike two together, eleven plain, take two together ; repeat. 

Fourth R')w.— Purl two together, purl nine, purl two together ; repeat. 

Fifth Row.— Take two together, seven plain, take two together. Begin 
from the first row. 

Thirteen stitches are large enough for a stripe for a sofa cover. These 
stripes must be sewed together after all are finished. 

A pretty cushion cover can be made by knitting these stripes in dark red 
or maroon very fine cord and ecru color, sewing them together alternately, 
and trimming one corner of the covered cushion with a bow of maroon and 
deep ecru satin ribbons. A knitted lace border in dark red would also 
make a pretty finish about the edge of the cushion. 

Afghan, mosaic Pattern — This pattern can be made of the odds and 
ends of zephyr or Germantown wool. Begin with anv color— olive-green, 
for example. Chain 5 stitches. Fasten in the first. Chnin 2 for fir«t stit'-h 
and make 12 trebles in the same loop. Fasten to first. Cut the z\ h^r and 



196 LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 

fasten yellow, so that the stitch on the needle will be tlie next color — in 
this case, yellow. Chain 2, and make 6 trebles in the same stitch, with 1 
chain between the third and fourth treble. Skip 3 trebles, and make 6 
more trebles divided by 1 chain, until there are 4 sIjcIIs of 6 trebles. Fasten 
to first cut and put on brown, having the stitch on the needle brown, 3 
trebles, 1 chain stitch, 3 trebles ; in each corner shell as before, but in this 
row add 3 trebles between the slieels. Fasten and add black ; 3 trebles, 1 
chain, 3 trebles in the corners as before, with 3 trebles repeated twice be- 
tween the shells. Fasten. This makes one block. Make three blocks m 
a row for each stripe, with plain stripe in afghan stitch between. Crochet 
the blocks together with black, and finish with scallop on the outer edge. 

"Wide Novelty Braid, with Crochet Edge — Measure the length of 
the trimming you need for any article. Use novelty braid an inch wide 
and No. 30 thread. Tie the thread in thelirst loop. * Chain two. Make 




WIDE NOVELTY BRAID, WITH CROCHET EDGE. 

one double in next loop, and repeat from * to the end of the braid. Make 
this edge on both sides: 

2d Row (For the lace on the lower edt3;e)— Fasten in the first hole made 
by the two chain. Make seven trebles in the next hole. One double in 
next. * Chain three. One double in next. Repeat twice from *. Then 
alwavs' I'epeat from seven trebles. 

3d Row— Always begin at the right hand sidp. Chain three. One 
double in the third treble. Chain three. One double in the sixth tre'de. 
* Chain three. One double in the chain. Repeat twice from *. Then 
• begin the fourth row. 

4th Row— Like the second. So that the seven trebles come in the 
center ohain. 

5th Row — Like the third. 

6th Row— Like the second. 

7th Row — Fasten in the first. Chnin three. One double between the 
third and fourth- trebles. Chain three. One double between the fifth 



LACE MAKING A A' J) ClWCHKT. 197 

and sixtU trebles. Chain three. Oue double iu the chain. Chain ouo. 
Mako sis trebles in next chain, with one chain between. Chain one. 
Oue double in next. Repeat. 

8th U)w — Fasten iu first chain. Chain three. One double in the cen- 
ter chain over the seven trebles. Chain three. Skip next chain. One 
double treble (that is, thread over twice) between the double and first treble 
of last row. Chain one. Oue double treble between the next two trebles. 
Repeat five times, so that there are seven double trebles, placing the 
last oue after the last treble. Repeat from the beginning of this row. 

9th Row — Fasten in the chain. Make two trebles between the first 
and second double trebles. Caaiu five. Make one double iu the first 
of the five chain lor loop. Chain one. Make two trebles between the 
next two trebles. Repeat uutil you have five loops in the scallop, and 
six groups of two trebles. One double in the center chain over the 
seven trebles, covering the double already in that chain. Repeat. 

Balbrlggan Crochet l.ace._Use No.25 Sea Island ecru crochet ball 
thread. 

Ist. Row— Chain 56. Turn. 

2d Row- 8 chain. Double crochet into eighth chain of foundation. 
* Cliain 5. Double crochet back into third stitch of last 5 chain. Ch in 
8. Double crochet into seventh chain of fuund.ition. Repeat from * five 
times. 8 chain. Double crochet into last stitch of foundation. Turn. 

3d. Row— Chain 9. Double crochet into sixth chain of last eight 
chain in second row. Chain 5. Double ci'ocliet back into third chain to 
form the picot. Chain 3. Double crochet into last chain next to picot 
of last row. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third chain. Chain 2. 
Double crochet into last chain before next picot. Chain 5. * Turn work 
over. Double crochet back over last jdcot into first double crochet from 
crochet hook. Chain 3 to form first treble ; eight more treble in last done 
5 chain. Chain 3. Double croc et into first chain over next picot. Chain 
5. Double crochet back into third. Chain 3. Double crochet into chain 
next to picot. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third. Chain 3. Double 
crochet into chain next to picnt. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third 
stitch. Chain 3. Double crochet into chain next to picot. Chain 5. 
Repeat from * once. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third. Chain 
3. Double crochet into chain before next picot. Chain 5. Double crochet 
back into third chain. Chain 3. Double crochet into fifth chain of last 
row. Turn. 

4th. Row — Ciiain 8. Double crochet into chain next to picot of last 
row. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third stitch to form picot. Chain 
3. Double crochet into chain next to picot of last row. Chain 3. Do nine 
treble over treble of last row with one chain between each. * Chain 3. 
Double crochet into chain next to picot of last row. Chain 5. Double 
crochet back into third chain. Chain 3. Double crochet into chain next to 
picot of last row. Chain 3. Nine treble over treble of last row with one 
chain between each. Chain 3. Double crochet into next to picot of last 
row. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third chain. Chain 3. Twelve 
treble for scallop into last loop of la-'t row. Tui'n. 

5th Row— Chain 3. For first treble twelve treble into twelve treble of 
last row with one chain between each. Chain 3. Double crochet into next 
chain before picot. Chain 5. Double crochet back into third chain. 
Chain 3. Double crochet between second and third treble of last row. 



198 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHE'l. 



GliaiiiS. Double crochet into third chuiii tu lonn picut. ChaiuS. Double cro 
cbet between two last trebles. Ghaiu 5. Double crocbet back to tbird 
cbaiii. Cbain 3. Double crocbet into chain next to picot of last row. 
Obain 5. Double crocbet back into third cbain. Chain 3. Double crocbet 
between second and tbird treble of last row. Chain 5. Double crocbet 
back into tbird cbain. Cbain 3. Double crocbet between two last trebles of 
last I'ow. Cbain 5. Double crocbet back into tbird chain. Chain 3. Dou- 
ble crocbet into next chain to picot. Cbain 5. Double crochet into tbird 
obaiu back. Chain 3. Double crocbet into last loop of last row. Turn. 




BALBKIGQAN CROCHET LAOE. 



6tb Row — Cbain 8. Double crocbet into first chain over picot in last 
row. Cbain 5. Double crocbet back into third chain stitch. Cbain 3. 
Double crochet into chain next to picot of last row. * Turn work over, 
five chain. Double crocbet back over last picot into first double crocbet 
from needle. Cbain 3. To form first treble eight more treble into last 
done five cbain. Cbain 5. Double crocbet back into third cbain to form picot. 
Chain 3. Double crochet into next chain to picot of last row. Cbain 5. 
Double crocbet back into third chain. Cbain 3. Double crochet into next 



LACE MAKING AND VliOCHiiT. 199 

chain to picot of last row. Repeat * from * twice more. Cbaiu 3. One 
double crochet between second and third treble of last row. Ten more 
trebles with one chain between each. Turn. 

7th Row— Chain 7. Double crochet back into third stitch. Chain 5. 
Double crochet back into same stitch as last. Chain 4. Double crochet 
back into same. 

This forms first picot of clover edge. One double between second and 
third treble of last row, always doing one double crochet between each 
bunch of clover down between next treble to it. Repeat to end of scallop. 
There should be six clovers on first scallop ; five on each alter connecting 
the first with the last clover of every scallop. Double crochet between 
next shell. Chain 3. One treble over each treble of last row, with 
one chain between each, and repeat from * in fourth row. 

Picot Lace.— Ecru linen thread No. 40 ; steel crochet needle. 

Chain 30. Turn. 

Ist Row — * Oue double in eighth stitch. Chain 3, one double in same 
stitch. Chain 7 *. Repeat twice from *. Chain 3, one treble in third stitch. 
Chain 1, one treble in last stitch. Chain 5. Turn. 

2 1 Row — Oue treble in first hole. Chain 1. One treble in next hole. 
Chain 7. Oue double in fourth of chain of 7 in previous row. Chain 3, one 
double in same. Repeat once. Chain 7, one treble in end loop. Cliain 7. 
Turn. 

3d Row — * One d!)uble in fourth of 7 chain. Chain 3, one double in 
same. Cuain 7. Repeat twice from *. Chain 3, one treble in first hole. 
Chain 1, one treble in second liole. Chain 1, one treble in third of 5 chain 
at the end. Chain 5. Turn. 

4th Row — L\ke the 2d, but after the one treble in the end loop chain 5, 
and make an extra loop with one treble in treble. Chain 3, * 1 double in 
fourth of 7 chain. Chain 3, 1 double in same. Chain 7. Repeat twice from 
* ending with chain 3, 1 treble. Chain 1, 1 treble. Chain 1, 1 treble in 
third of 5 chain. Chain 5. Turn. 

5th Row — Like the second, and after the one treble in last treble chain 
5. Make 9 double trebles in the extra loop of 4th row ; that is, thread over 
twice, insert the hook in the middle stitch of 5 chain and draw through two 
loops three times. Chain 5, 3 doubles in the next end loop of 7 to the left. 
Turn. Cliain 5, * one double treble in first double treble. Chain 3, 
one double on the side of same stitch. Repeat from * 8 times, making the 
double trebles in the double trebles of last row. Chain 5, one treble in 
treble. This makes one scallop. Chain 3. Begin at 3d row, then the sec- 
ond, third, and so on. Always join the scallops in the last row by dropping 
the stitch from the needle when making 3 chain. Put the needle in 3 chain 
of last scallop and draw through. Make one double on the double (reble. 

Insertion to Matcli Picot Lace—Chain 36. Turn. 

Ist Row— One treble in sixth ; chain 1, skip 1, 1 treble in next ; chain 3, 
skip 3, 1 double in next ; * chain 3, one double in same ; chain 7, one double 
in 8th. Repeat from * twice. Chain 3, one treble in 4th ; chain 1, one treble 
in 3d ; chain 1, one treble in last. 

2d Row— Chain 5, one treble in first hole ; chain 1. one treble in next ; 
chain 7, one double in 4th of 7 chain ; chain 3, one double in same. Re- 
peat once, ending with 7 chain, 1 treble; chain 1, 1 treble; chain 1, one 
treble in 3d of 5 chain ; chain 5, Turn. 



200 



I ACE MAKtm AND CitOfjn^f. 



3cl Row — Oue treble in first hole ; chain 1, one treble in next hole ; * 
chain 3, one double in 4th of 7 chain ; chain 3, oue double in same ; chain 7. 
Repeat from * twice. Chain 3, 1 treble in first hole ; chain 1, 1 treble in 
next; chain 1, 1 treble in third of 5 chain; chain 5. Turn. Repeat the 
second and third rows until you have the length desired, always having 
three picota in one row, and two in the next. 

Crochet Design for Tidy, Etc—Commence in the center of the 
rosette, five chain, join round. 

Ist Round : Tweuiy-fuur trebles under the chain. 




CROCHET DESIGN FOR TIDY. 

2d Round : Six chain, three of which take the place of a treble, * pass 
over two siitches, oue treble into the next, three chain, repeat from * six 
times more ; join wiih one single to the third of six cliain. 

3d Round : Three cliain to take the place of a treble, one treble un- 
der last round, * five chain, six trebles under last round, (see design), 
repeat from * seven times more, four trebles under last I'ouud, joiu to top 
of three chain with one single. 

4th Round : Work up to the center of first five chain with one single 
into each stitch, * seven chain, one double into center of five chain, repeat 
from * seven times more. 



lACE MAKlXa aKB CilornP.T. 201 

5th iloUud : Five chain, two of these take the place of a half treble, oue- 
iialf treble into third of six cbain, * three chain, pass over two stitches, 
and repeat from * all round, join to third of five chain with one 
single. 

6th Round : Six chain, pass over two stitches, one double into next, 
repeat all round. 

7th Round : Work up to the centre of chain with one single into each 
of three stitches, three chain to take the place of a treble,' two trebles into 
next stitch, 5 chain, three trebles into next stitch, * three trebles into third 
of next six'cbain, five chain, three trebles into the next stitch, repeat from 
* all round. 

In working the next rosette, join to tlie center of five chain when work- 
ing tho corresponding stitch on the last rosette. 

For the small stars, which are worked in the space left by four rosettes, 
nine chain, join round, eight chain, one double into center of five chain on 
lower right hand rosette (see design), eight chain, one double into nine 
chain, six chain, one double into center of next five chain, six chain, one 
double into next stitch of nine chain, nine chain, one double into the double 
where rosettes join (see design), nine chain, one double into next stich of 
center nine chain, six chain, one double into five chain on next rosette, six 
chain, one double into center of nine chain, eight chain, one double into next 
five chain, eight chain, one double into next stitch of nine chain, repeat 
from the beginning of the row, working into the next rosettes as described 
for the two first. 

Baby Blanket. — Cast on 140 stitches. 

1st Row — Plain knitting. 

2d Row— Knit 2 together. * 2 plain, thread forward, knit 1, thread for- 
ward, knit 3, slip 1, knit 2 together and bind the slip stitch. * Finish 
the row by knitting 2 together, 

3d Row— Purl. 

4th Row — Knit plain. 

5th Row— Knit 2 together, * 3 plain, thread forward, knit 1, thread for- 
ward, knit 2, slip 1, knit 2 together and bind. Finish by knitting 2 to- 
gether. 

6th Row— Purl. 

7th Row— Knit plain. Begin at second, so that the holes come above 
one another. This makes the border for the two ends of the blanket, and 
can be made as deep as you wish. For center knit 7 stitches plain, and 
purl 7 for seven rows to make a square. Then reverse, having the squares 
like a checker-board, until the blanket is long enough. Bind off and sew 
the other border on tliia end. This makes a blanket about a yard and a 
half long. 

Materials for ends : 4 ounces of Germantown wool, white and pink, or 
any color desired ; 8 ounces white for center ; knit on bone needles. When 
the first border is finished, the center is begun without binding ofi", while 
at the other end it must be bound ofif and sewed to the blanket. 

Another pretty blanket is in plain knitting. Cast on 150 stitches on 
bone needles. Knit 18 rows of white, 3 blue, 5 white, 8 blue, 5 white, 3 
blue on the right side for tlie ends, 113 rows of white for center ; crochet on 
edge at each end. 

Materials : 6 1-2 ounces white, 2 ounces blue. 



m 



LAVE MAKIXG ANl^ CIWCHET. 



Lace for Flannel Skirts—Material, Saxony wool ; medium-sized 
bone needles. 

Cast on 25 stitches, knit plain across. 

Ist Row — Knit three, thread over narrow, thread over narrow, thread 
over narrow. Knit plain to end of row. 

2d Row — Needle througli stitch, throw thread over three times, knit 1 ; 
repeat this 15 times, or until 16 stitches have been used. Kuit plain to 
end of row. 

3d Row— Knit 8, thread over narrow, thread over narrow, thread over 




I-ACE FOR FLANNEL SKIRTS. 

narrow ; slip 8 of the lone; stitches, place needle through first 4 stitches 
and draw last 4 through them, making stitches cross ; place them in this 
position back on needle and knit off plain. Slip next 8 long stitches and 
proceed as before. 

4th Row— Kuit plain. 

5th Row — Knit 3, thread over narrow, thread over narrow, thread over 
narrow. Knit plain to end of row. 

6th Row— Knit plain. 

7th Row— Same as 5th. 

8th Row — Knit plain. Repeat from 1st row. 



LACE MAKING AND (J ROCHET. 203 

CrocUet Edge—No. 70 linen thread. Chain 28. Turn. 
Ist Row— Skip 3. Two trebles in 4th stitch. Chain 2, 2 trebles in follow- 
ing third stitch of chain. Chain 2, 3 trebles in third stitch. * Chain 2, 
skip 2, 1 treble in next. * Repeat from * 5 times, making thus 6 holes. 
Chain 5. Turn. 

2a Row—* Treble in treble. Chain 2. * Repeat from * 5 times. On 
reaching the 3 trebles iu the previous row make 5 trebles by putting 1 extra 
treble in the first and last stitches. Chain 2, 2 trebles between 2 trebles, 2 
chain 2 trebles between first and second trebles, 1 treble in last. Chain 3. 
Tarn. 

3d Row— Two trebles between, second and third trebles. Chain 2, 2 
trebles between 2 trebles. Chain 2, 2 trebles iu first treble, 3 trebles ou fol- 
lowing 3 trebles, 2 trebles iu last treble, making 7 trebles in tliis row. 
* Chain 2, 1 treble iu treble. * Repeat to the end of row. Cliain 5. Turn. 

4th Row— Like second row, but make 9 trebles in solid part. 

5th Row— Liko third row, but this time 11 trebles. 

6tli Row— Like the second row, with 13 ti-ebles, ending the row with 3 
chain. Turn. 

7th Row— Two trebles between second. and third trebles. Chain 2, 2 
trebles between trebles. Chain 2,3 trebles in first treble. * Chain 2, 1 
treble iu third stitch. * Repeat from * 5 times. This is the beginning of 
the second point. 

If a deeper heading; is required at the top, this can be done by beginning 
with 34 chain stitohes. M ilce 2 trebles in fourtli stiteh. Chain 2, 2 trebles 
in third. C lain 2, 2 trebles in third. Cliain 2, 2 trebles in third. Chain 2, 
3 treV)les iu third. * Chain 2, skip 2, 1 treble in next. * Repeat 5 times. 
This makes 4 rows of holes lor the top — a solid part increasing from 3 to 
thirteen trebles, and an open diamond of 6 holes. 

Cliaotic and Fan Lace. — Chain 28—1. Make a group of 4 trebles, 
separated by 3 chain, in the fourth stitch. Skip 3. Make a similar group 
in next stitch. Chain 4, skip 5, 2 trebles separated by 3 chain in next for 
fan. Chain 4, sldp 5. Group iu next. Skip 3. Group in next. Skip 3. 
One treble in last. Chain 3. 

2. Group in center loop of group of previous row. Repeat. Chain 3, 
8 trebles in Ian center. Chain 3, 2 groups in next 2 groups. Chain 3. 

8. Group in center. Repeat. Chain 2, 7 ti'ebles, with 1 chain between, 
between the trebles of fan. Chain 2, make 2 groups, 1 treble in last. 
Cliain 3. 

4. Two groups. Three trebles in each space of fan, 18 altogether. Two 
groups. Eight trebles in 3 chain at end for scullop. One double in end 
loop. Afterwards in first loop of group. * Two trebles separated by 3 
chain, between the trebles iu the scallop. Repeat 6 times. Two groups. 
Chain 4, 2 trebles, separated by 3 chain in center ol fan. Chain 4, 2 
groups, 1 treble in last. Chain 3. 

Repeat from the second row. 

Feather Edge Lace.— Make a narrow braid first of the feather edge, 
without thread. Put the hook in a loop, skip five and draw the sixth 
through the one on the hook. Tui-n the feather edge. Catch the stitch op- 
posite in the same way. Skip five loops. Draw the sixth through as before. 
Turn. Count five loops on the top. C:ttch the sixth. Proceed iu this way 
until you have made a yard or two. Then crochet with No. 30 cotton in a 



204 LAci: Makii^g Ah'D cnociiJUT. 

etyle reaembliug ric-rac. Fasten thread iu the middle stitch of the sixth 
point in the bi-aid just made. 

1st Row — Chain 4. Fasten in next point with 1 treble. Chain 1. Re- 
peat thirteen times trom *, having thus caught 15 of the points. Chain 3. 
Turn. 

2d Row — 1 treble between each of the 15 trebles in last row, with one 
chain between, which will make 14 trebles. Chain 3. 

3d Row— 1 treble between each treble without chain. Fasten in first, 
which draws the circle together. Chain 7. Catch the top loop in the six- 
teenth point of braid wiih opposite loop in braid. Chain 3. Catch next two 
points in braid. Chain 5. Fasten to the left, between tlie third and fourth 
piece in braid trom where you joined. Chain 2. Fasten to the top loop of 




FEATHER EDGE LACE. 

the 15th point of braid. Turn the scallop tlius formed and make another 
to the left. Be-^in at the first row. Have all the chains by which the scal- 
lops are fastened together on the same side. This is a beautiful trimming 
for aprons, and can also be used for insertion. 

Saw Tooth Edge in Crochet—Chain 23. 

1. Make a shell of 3 trebles, 3 chain, 3 trebles in the 4th stitch. Chain 4, 
skip 4. One double iu next. Chain 4, skip 4. Shell in next. * Chain 2, 
skip 2. One treble in next. Repeat twice. Chain 5. 

2. One treble in the 2d treble and each of the following 6 stitches, so 
that the last treble comes in the first treble of shell. Chain 2. yhell. Chain 
4. One double in double. Cliain 4. Sliell. Chain 5. 

3. Shell. Chain 9. Shell. The shells are always made in the 3 chain of 
the other shells. Chain 2. One treble in last treble of shell. Chain 2, 
skip 2. One treble in each of the trebles of last row. Chain 2. One treble 
in 3d stitch of chain at the end. Chain 5. 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 205 

4. One treble in the first of 7 trebles. Chain 2. One treble in 4th. Chain 
2. One treble in last of 7 trebles, which begins another block of 7 trebles 
in the next 7 stitches. Chain 2. Shell. Chain 4. One double in 5th of 9 
chain. Chain 4. Shell. Cham 5. 

5. Shell. Chain 4. One double in double. Chain 4. Shell. Chain 2. 
One treble in last treble of shell. Chain 2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. One 
treble in treble. Repeat twice. Chain 5. 

6. Sliip 2. Seven trebles in next 7 stitches. Chain 2. One treble in cen- 
ter of 7 trebles. Chain 2, skip 2. Seven trebles in next 7 trebles. Chain 2. 
Shell. Chain 9. Shell. Chain 5. 

7. Shell. Chain 4. One double in center. Chain 4. Shell. Chain 2. 
One treble in last. Chain 2, skip 2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. One treble 




SAW TOOTH EDGE IN CROCHET. 

in next. Chain 2, skip 2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. One treble in end. 
Chain 5. 

8. One treble in first of 7 trebles. Chain 2. One treble in center. Chain 
2. lOue treble in last and in each of next 6 stitches. Chain 2. One treble in 
center. Chain 2, skip 2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. Shell. Chain 4. One 
double. Chain 4. Shell. Chain 5. 

9. Shell. Chain 9. Shell. Chain 2. One treble in last. Chain 2. Seven 
trebles. Chain 2. One treble. Chain 2. Seven trebles. * Chain 2. One 
treble. Repeat twice. Chain 5. 

10. Seven trebles in the trebles. Chain 2. One treble in center. Chain 
2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. One treble in center. Chain 2. Seven trebles. 
Chain 2. Shell. Chain 4. One double. Chain 4. Shell. Chain 5. 

11. Shell. Chain 4. One double. Chain 4. Shell. Chain 2. One 
treble. Chain 2. skip 2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. One treble. Chain 2. 
Seven trebles. Chain 2. One treble. Chain 2. Seven trebles. Chain 2. 
One treble in end. Chain 5. 



206 



LAVE MAKING AND CliOCIIET. 



12. One treble in first treble. * Chaiu 2; skip 2. One treble in next. 
Eepeat. There must be 14 liolea uu the edge. Shell. Chaiu 9. Shell. Chain 5. 

13. Shell. Chain!. Que double. Ch.ciu 4. Shell. Chaiu 2. Que treble 
in end treble. Chain 2, skip 2. O.ie treble in treble. Chaiu 2. Que treble 
in treble to make 3 holes. Cuaiu 5. 

Begin at the second row. Wheu euough points have been made chain 
4, make one double in each treble. For outside edge : Make 2 chains at 
the poiut and skip from one treble to the other between two points. 

Wheel Lace— 1st Eow~Chaiu 13, turn and fasten in sevenih stitch 
of chain, with slip stitch. Chaiu 3. Now work 10 trebles in little loop 
formed by the 7 chain stitches. Chaiu 15, form a loop. Chain 3, work 
10 trebles in loop. Chaiu 15, as before, form a little loop. Chain 3, work 
20 trebles in loop. Keep stitch on ueedle, and pass poiut of needle tbrougli 
third stitch from wheel and through top of first of the 20 trebles. Pass 




WHEEL LACE. 



the thread around the needle, and draw thread through all 3 loops on 
needle. This finishes first wheel. Now chain 8, fasten in top of next half 
wheel, work 10 trebles to finish wlieel, fasten same as for first wheel. 
Chain 8, fasten in top of last half wheel, 10 trebles to finish wheel, fasten, 
Chaiu 3, 1 treble in first stitch of chain. 

2d Row— Chain 13, fasten in center of first wheel ; to fasten to wheel drop 
stitch on needle ; pass needle through center of wlieel, catch dropped 
stitch, and draw same stitch through wheel. Chain 14, form loop. Chain 
3, work 5 trebles in loop, and fasten in center of the 8 chain stitches of the 
first row ; 5 more trebles in loop. Chain 4, and f steu in center of wheel in 
first row. Chahi 14. form loop. Chaiu 3, 5 trebles in loop, and fasten in 
center of 8 chain ; 5 more trebles in loop. Chain 4, fasten in center of top 
wheel. Chain 8, make a picot. Chain 8 more, fasten at beginning of first 
half wheel ; 10 trebles to finish wheel, fasten at bottom of wheel the same 
way as in first row. Chain 8, fasten to next half wheel, 10 trebles in last 
wheel Chain 8, fasten in fifth stitch of long chain at bottom of work. 



LACE MAKING AND CliOCHET. 



207 



Chain 3, 1 treble in third atitcU for the foundation chain. This finishes sec- 
ond row, 

3d Row — Chain 17, form loop, work 5 trebles into loop, fasten in center 
of chain of last row ; 5 more trebles in loop. Cham 4, fasten in center of 
first wheel of last row. Cliaiu li, form loop, 5 trebles in loop, fasten in 
center of chain of last row ; 5 more trebles in same loop. Chain 4, fasten 
in center of second wheel of last row. Chain 14, form loop, 5 trebles in 
loop, fasten in fifth stitch of chain at top of work ; 15 trebles in loop, fasten 
and finish the same way first row is finished. 

By center of wheel I mean the center of the side or edge of the wheel. 

Lace is made with No. 24 spool cotton and fine steel hook. Lace can be 
made wider by starting with four or five wheels m place of three. 

Shell liace. — Chain 25. 

1. One treble in fourth stitch. One treble in each of the next 2 stitches. 
Chain 4, skip 6. Four trebles in next separated by 3 chain. Chain 4, skip 6. 




SHELL LACE. 

Shell of 2 trebles, 2 chain, 2 trebles in next. Chain 6. One double in last. 
Chain 3. 

2. Twelve trebles in loop. Shell in shell. Chain 3. One double, 3 trebles, 
1 double in first and third loop in the center. One double, 4 trebles, 1 
double in the middle loop. Chain 3. Four trebles in. last 4 trebles. Chain 3. 

3. Three trebles. Cliain 4. Four trebles in center separated by 3 chain. 
Chain 4. Shell. Twelve trebles in the top of trebles. Chain 3. 

4. Twelve trebles in the top of last trebles with 1 chain between. Repeat 
from shell in second row. 

5. Like third row to shell. One treble between shell and treble. * Chain 
1. One treble between the trebles. Repeat 13 altoRether. Chain 3. 

6. Shell of 2 trebles, 2 chain, 2 trebles in first hole. Skip 1 hole. Make 
7 of these shells, including the shell in the upper row. Repeat second row 
from chain 6. 

7. Like third to shell. Then make a shell in each shell of 3 trebles, 2 
chain, 3 trebles— 6 in all. 



208 



LACE MAKING AM) CliOUHET. 



8. Four trebles, 2 chain, 4 trebles in each shell. Repeat second row. 

9. Like third row to shell. Shell of 5 trebles, 2 chain, 5 trebles in each 
shell. 

10. Twelve trebles in each of the 6 shells. Repeat second row. 

11. Like third row to shell. Chain 6. One double in fifth treble of shell 
in border to begin next scallop. Chain 3. 

The scallops are joined by the firat 3 shells — twice in first 2 shells, once 
in third shell — with 1 double in the fifth and eighth treble of first shell, 
fourth and eighth of the second shell, and in the fifth of third shell. The 
scallops are all made like the first. 

The insertion and shell border can be used as two separate patterns — 
if a narrower edge is desired. The shell border is extremely pretty by 
itself. 

Bee-hive Lace. — N'tvelty braid and No. 30 thread. Fasten to loop. 
Cliain four for first stitch and make a row of trebles in every loop with one 
chain between, il necessary. 

1. For the bee-hive, make eleven trebles on the other side of braid, one 




BEE-HrVE LACE. 



in each loop. Chain seven. Turn. Make one double between the .second 
and third trebles and one double between the next two trebles. Chain two. 
Turn. 

2. Make ten trebles, one chain, and ten trebles in the chain of seven. 
Two trebles in next two loops of braid. Chain two. Turn. 

3. One treble in second stitch.- Chain two. Repeat to make five holes 
on one side of bee-hive. Chain three. Make an extra treble in the one 
chain at top, and make five holes on the other side, skip two trebles for 
braid, two doubles in next two. Chain two. Turn. 

4. One ti-eble in first hole. Chain two. Repeat to make six holes on 
each side and extra treble at top, two trebles in two loops of braid. Chain 
two. Turn. 

5. One treble in first hole. Chain two. Repeat seven holes on each 
side, two at the top, skip two trebles on- edge, two doubles in next two 
stitches. 

6. One double, three trebles in each hole for seven scallops on edge and 
two at top. Repeat from the beginning. Join in last row when making 
first scallop. 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 209 

Woolen l.ace._The following, knitted in scarlet or in blue worsted, 
makes a pretty and durable edging for flannel or knitted wool skirts for 
winter use : 

Ist Row — Cast on 13 stitches ; knit 1 row plain, knit 2 threads over needle 
twice and purl 2 ; throw back, knit 1, bring thread forward, knit 2 together. 
Do this three times, leaving two stitches on needle, bring thread forward, 
knit 1, knit 1 plain. 

2d Row— Knit 10 stitches plain, bring thread over the needle twice, purl 
2, knit 2 plain. 

3d Row— Knit 2, bring thread over the needle twice, purl 2, throw thread 
liack, knit 2 plain, bring thread forward, knit 2 together. Repeat twice, 
leaving 2 stitches on the needle, bring thread forward, knit 1, knit 1 plain. 

4th Row— Knit 11 stitches plain, bring thread over needle twice, purl 2, 
knit 2 plain. 

5th Row — Knit 2, thread over needle twice, purl 2, throw thread back, 
knit 3 plain, bring thread forward, knit 2 together. Repeat twice, bring 
thread forward, knit 1, Imit 1 plain. 

6th Row —Knit 12 stitches plain, bring thread over needle twice, purl 2, 
knit 2 plain. 

7th Row— Knit 2, thread over needle twice, puii 2, thread back, knit 4 
plain, bring thread forward, knit 2 together. P.epeat twice, brin~ thread 
forward, knit 1, knit 1 plain. 

8th Row — Knit 13 stitches plain, bring thread over needle twice, purl 2, 
knit 5 plain, thread forward, knit 2 together. Repeat twice, bring thread 
forward, knit 1, knit 1 plain. 

9th Row— Knit 14 stitches plain, bring thread over needle twice, purl 2, 
knit 6 plain, thread forward, knit 2 together. Repeat twice, thread forward, 
knit 1, knit 1 plain. 

10th Row— Knit 15 stitches plain, bring thread over needle twice, purl 2, 
knit 2 plain. 

11th Row — Knit 2 plain, bring thread forward, purl 2, knit 7 plain, bring 
thread forward, knit 2 together. Repeat twice, tliread forward, knit 1, knit 
1 plain. 

12tli Row — Knit 16 plain, thread over needle twice, purl 2, knit 2 plain. 

13th Row — Knit 2, thread forward, thread twice, purl 2, thread back, knit 
the rest plain. 

When the point is finished, there will be 20 stitches on needle ; bind off 
7, leaving 13 stitches to commence the next point. 

Skirt Trimming— Novelty Braid. No. 24 thread. 

Fasten to a bar between. Chain 4. One double in first loop. Chain 16. 
Skip one loop ; one double in next. Chain 4. Drop the stitch ; put the 
hook in the fourth of the sixteenth chain ; draw the stitch through. Chain 
4. Skip one ; one double in next. Chain 4. Fasten back in 4th stitch. Chain 
4. One double in the second and third loops in next piece of braid. Chain 
4. Fasten back. Chain 4. One double in next two loops. Chain 4. Fasten 
back. Chain 4. One double in second loop in next piece of braid. Chain 
4. Fasten back. Chain 4. Skip one ; one double in next. Chain 4. Fasten 
back. Chain 4. Fasten on the fourth in the sixteenth chain. Chain 8. Skip 
one ; one double in last loop. Chain 4. Repeat from the beginning. 

Finish the top with a row of trebles witli two chain between, which will 
be tl>ree on tbe two long chains ; one in each of the two short chiiiiis ; one 
where tUe lopg chains are joined, and one in tUe double on tUe bap 



210 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 



between. For lower edge, * Fasten to the third loops where the two scallops 
join. Chain 3. One double in last loop. Make six picots thus : Chain 5. 
Fasten back in the fourth. Chaiu 1. C itch the first on the bar. Second, in 
the first loop of middle piern ol braid. Third, in the third and fourth 
loops. Fourth, in the last loop. Fifth, on the bar. Sixih, in the first 
loop of next piece of braid. Chain 3. Kepeat from *. 

Pineapple Insertion, — Chain 27. 

1. Make a shell of 3 trebles, 2 chain, 3 trebles in the fourth stitch. Skip 
2'8titches. Another shell in next. Skip 2. One treble in each of next 12 
stitches. Skip 2. Shell in next. Skip 2. Shell in last. Chain 3. 




PINEAPPLE INSERTION. 

2. Always shell in shell. Make the second shell, skip 1 treble, and put 
1 treble in each of the next 4 trebles. Chain 2. Skip 2. One treble in each 
of the next 4 trebles. Shells in the next 2 shells. Que treble in end. 
Phain 3. 

3. Two shells. Chain 4. Nine trebles in the 2 chain to begin the pine- 
apple in the center. Chain 4, 2 shells, 1 treble. Chain 3. 

4. Two shells. Chain 4. Nine doubles in the pineapple, that is, 1 in 
each treble. Chain 4, 2 shells, 1 treble. Chain 3. 

5. Two shells. Chain 4. Eight doubles in center, putting the hook be- 
tween tlie doubles of last row. Chain 4, 2 shells, 1 treble. Chain 3. 

6. Two shells. Chain 4. Seven doubles. Chain 4, 2 shells, 1 treble. 
Chain 3. 

7. Two shells. Chain 4. Six doubles. Chain 4, 2 shells, 1 treble. 
Qhain 3, 



LACE MAKING AND OROUHET. 



211 



8. Two ahells. Chain 4. Five doubles. 
Cbaiu 3. 

9. Two shells. Chain 4. Four doubles. 
Chain 3. 

10. Shell. Chain 1. 
Chain 1. SheU, 1 treble 

11. Shell. Chain 2. 
Chain 2. Shell, 1 treble. 

12. Shell. Chain 3. 



Chain 4, 2 
Chain 4, 2 



shells, 1 treble, 
shells, 1 treble. 



Shell. Chain 4, 3 doubles. Chain 4. Shell. 
Chain 3. 

Shell. Chain 4, 2 doubles. Chain 4. Shell. 
Chain 3. 
Shell. Chain 4, 1 double, the point of the pine- 



apple. Chain 4. Shell. Chain 3. Sbell, 1 treble. Chain 3. 

13. Shell. Chain 4, * Six trebles instead of the familiar shell iu the 
next shell. Repeat once. Chain 4. Shell, 1 treble. Chain 3. 

14. Sliell in shell. Then make a shell in the 4 chain. One treble in 
each of the 6 trebles in the center, 12 in all. Another shell in tlie 4 chain 
and shell in last shell. One treble. Chain 3. 

Repeat from the second row. 

There seems to be a gi-eat deal of unnecessary repetition, but as most 
persons prefer copying from a sample instead of written directions, nothiug 
must be left to the imagination. 

Clover-leaf Edging—Chain 8. Turn. 

1. Make a shell of three trebles, two chain, and three trebles in the fourth 
stitch. Chain two, skip three. Shell in last stitcL. Chain three. Tarn. 




CLOVER-LEAF EDGING. 

2. Always shell in shell. Chain two. Shell, one treble in end chain. 
Chain three. Turn. 

3. Shell. Chain two. Shell. Chain twelve, one double in sixth stitch 
to lorm a loop. Turn. * Chain five, one double in loop. Repeat twice. 
Be careful to make the last double where the loop is joined to prevent 
shppmg. Turn. Make one double and five trebles in first loop. Drop 
stitch and catch the three chain between the first and second shells in the 
border, then continue five trebles and one double in same loop, one double, 
ten trebles, one double in second loop the first time (afterwards, aft-^' 
making five trebles, drop stitch and join to the center of first clovp'r leaf, 
»jid continue five trebles, one double). Make one double, ten treoles, one 



212 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET, 



double in third loop, which completes the clover leaf. Make one double 
and ten trebles for stem on the empty chain to reach the border. 

4. Shell. Chain two. Shell, one treble at end. Chain three. Turn. 

5. Sbell. Chain two. Shell. Chaiu three. Turn. 

Begin at the second row. The clover leaves occur every fourth row after 
the first. There are many different styles of this pattern. The simplest 
has one row of shells above, auotber has two rows of loaves below, joined 
to a fancy braid at the top and the shells omitted. In this case a row of 
trebles must be made ou the top of the braid, and the additional row of 
leaves is begun after finishing the second petal of the first leaf. Four 
rows make quite an elaborate design, and a wide braid should be used or 
two rows of shells. 

Crazy Lace. — Chaiu 15 switches. 

1st Bow — Skip 3 stitches (a), 4 trebles in same stitch, skip 3, chain, 1 




CRAZY LACK. 

double in next stitch, 8 chain. Bepeat from (a) to end of row, 4 shells. 
Turn. , , ., ,. . . , i 

2d Bow-(5) 6 chain, 1 double in loop formed by 6 chain m last row. 
Bepeat from {h) to end of row, 4 loops. ... t» i 

3d Bow-(c) 6 chain, 1 double in next loop of 6 cham m last row. Bepeat 
from (c) to end of row, 4 times. , . , jv , j u, 

4th Bow-Three chnin, 4 trebles in loop formed by 6 cham (<!), 1 double 
in next loop, 3 chain, 4 trebles in same loop. Bepeat from ('/) to end of 
row. Pour shells in this row. , 

5th Bow— Three chain, 4 trebles in first stitch {p\ one double m next 
loop of3 chain in last row. Three chain, four trebles in same loop. Be- 
peat from (e) to end of row. Five shells in this row. Begin at second row. 

Narrow Clover L.eaf Edge — 1. Chain 6. Shell of three trebles, two 
chain, three trebles in fourth stitch, one double in end. Chain three, 
Turn. 



lACt: MaKINQ ANt) qroghet. 



m 



2. Shell in sliell, oue double in end. Ciiaiu three. Turii; 

3. Shell, one double in end. Chain three. Turn. 

4. Shell, one double in end. Chain twelve, one double in eeventh for 
loop. Turn. * Chain six, one double in loop. Repeat twice. Fasten in 
first. Turn, one double, six trebles in loop. Fasten between first and 
second shell, six trebles, one double in same loop, one double, twelve 
trebles, one double in next two loops, six doubles on chain for stem, one 
double in end of sliell. Chain three, shell, one double in end. Chain three. 
Turn. Begin at second row. Always join the clover leaves in the center 
of second petal. 

Stra^vberry Lace in Crocliet.—Chain 12 stitches. 

Ist Row — 2 trebles in 4th stitch; 2 chain; 3 trebles in same stitch; 2 chain; 




STBAWBEBBY LACE IN CKOCHET. 

skip 3 stitches; one double in next stitch; 2 chain; skip 3 stitches, three 
trebles iu next stitch; 2 chain; 3 trebles in same stitch; 4 chain; turn. 

2d Row— 3 trebles; 2 chain; 3 trebles under 2 chain; 5 chain; 3 trebles; 
2 chain; 3 trebles under 2 chain; 6 chain; turn. 

3d Row— 3 trebles; 2 chain; 3 trebles under 2 chain; 2 chain; 1 double 
in the center of 5 chain; 2 chain; three trebles; 2 chain; 3 treblea under 2 
chain; 1 treble in the Ist of 4 chain; 4 chain; turn. 

4th Row — Like the second. 

5th Row- Like the third. 

6th Row — Like the second. 
. 7th Row— Like the third. ' ■ ^ ^ 



214 LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 

8lli liow — Like tliu secuud, eudiug with G chaiu. This forma the top of 
the scallop. Now work ou tlie side. 

9th Kow— 3 trebles; 2 chaiu; 3 trebles under 6 chain of 6th row; 2 chain; 
11 trebles under 6 chain of 4th row; 2 cliain; 3 trebles; 2 chaiu; 3 trebles 
under 6 chain of 2d row; 6 chaiu; 1 double iu last stitch of Ist row; turn. 

10th Row — 11 doubles under 6 chaiu; 3 trebles; 2 chaiu; 3 trebles under 
2 chain; 2 chain; 1 double iu 1st of 11 trebles; * 3 chaiu; 1 double in next 
stitch. Repeat from * 9 times; then 2 chaiu; 3 trebles; 2 chaiu; 3 trebles 
under 2 chain; 1 double in last of three trebles; 6 chain; tui-n. 

11th Row— 3 trebles; 2 chain; 3 trebles under 2 chaiu; 2 chain; 1 doulile 
in the center of 3 chaiu; * 3 chain; 1 double in the center of 3 c'lain; *. Re- 
peat from * 8 times; then 2 chain; 3 trebles; 2 chaiu; 3 trebles under 2 chain;, 
6 chaiu; 1 double iu last of 3 trebles; turn. 

12th Row — 11 doubles under 6 chaiu; 3 trebles; 2 chain; 3 trebles under' 
2 chain; 2 chain: 1 double iu the center of 3 chain; * 3 chain; 1 double in 
the center of 3 chain; *. Repeat from * 7 times; then 2 chain, etc., like- 
10th row. 

13th Row— Like the lltb, repeating from the * 6 times. 
14th Row — Like the 12th, repeating from the * 5 times. 
15th Row — Like the 11th, repeating from the * 4 times. 
16th Row— Like the 12th, repeating from the * 3 times. 
17th Row— Like the 11th, repeating from the * twice. 
18th Row— Like the 12th, repeating from the * once. 
19th Row — Like the 11th, which ends the point of the strawberry with 3 
chain. 

20tli Row — 11 doubles under 6 chain; 1 slip stitch into each of the next 3 
trebles and the 1st of the 2 chain. Cat h the next stitch and the correspond- 
ing stitch in the other cluster of 3 trebk-s together with 1 slip stitch, hav- 
ing the work flat, and make 1 slip stitch in each of the next 4 stitches; 6 
chain; turn, and make 1 double in the Ist of 11 doubles; turn again, and 
make 11 doubles under 6 chain; 11 doubles under each of the following 6 
chain. This fiuiHhes the first scallop. 

Repeat the 3d and 2d rows until you have 8 shells again for the top. 
Tlien begin at the 9th row. 

The first 3 loops on the edge of each scallop are to be joined in working 
to the last 3 loops of the previous scallop, by making 5 doubles under 6 
chaiu; then take out the needle, catch the middle stitch of 11 doubles in 
previous scallop. Draw the stitch through, and finish by making 6 doubles. 
This makes the 11 doubles under 6 chain and coutinues 3 trebles; 2 chain, 
etc., in the 10th row. 

This pattern is very pretty for lamp shades. Run a ribbon through the 
space in the top, and tie round the lower part of the shade. 

Insertion for Stra^vberry Lace. — Chain 31 stitches. 
Turn : skip 3 stitches ; make 28 trebles on the chaiu ; turn. 
2d Row— Chain 3 ; 1 treble in each of the next 2 stitches ; chain 2 ; 1 
treble in the following 3d stitch ; 7 trebles in the next 7 stitches ; chain 2 ; 

1 treble iu 3d stitcti ; 7 trebles in next 7 stitches ; chain 2 ; 1 treble in 3d 
stitch ; 2 trebles in last 2 stitches ; chain 3 ; turn. 

3d Row— Make a shell of 3 trebles, 2 cliain and 3 trebles under 2 chain 
of the previous row ; chain 2 ; make 11 trebles under the second 2; chain 

2 ; another shell under the third 2 chain ; 1 chain and 1 treble in last stitch ; 
chain 3 ; turn. 



LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 



215 



4th Row— 1 treble in next stitch ; chain 1. Mivke shell as before in shell ; 
chain 2. Make 1 double in first of 11 trebles ; * cLiain 3 ; 1 double * iu ea«h 
of 11 trebles in center ; chain 2 shell as before in shell, 1 chain ending with 
2 trebles. Continue this way, making an extra treble on each side in the 1 
chain until you have 11 trebles and 11 sheila on each side of the straw- 
berry. 

14th Row— Chain 3, 11 trebles, chain 1, shell, chain 3, fasten in point of 
the strawberry, chain 3. Blake only hall of the next shell, then fasten it to 




INSERTION FOE STKAWBERBT LACE. 



the last shell made. Make the other half of shell, chain 1, and make 12 
trebles ; chain 3 ; turn. 

15th Row— 11 trebles ; 2 trebles in first two stitches of first shell ; 1 
treble between 2 shells ; 2 trebles in last two stitches of next shell ; 12 
trebles. Begin with 2d row. 



Lattice liace— ReJ or white woo?.— Cast on 20 stitches. 

First 3 rows knit plain. 

4. Begin at the top, knit 2 plain, thread over. Knit 2 together all the 
way across four holes, bringing the thread forward every time. Knit 4 rows 
plain. Begin at the bottom. Take off the first stitch, * thread over 4 times, 



216 LACE MAKING AND CROCHET. 

knit 1. Repeat from * uutil there are 3 stitches ou the left needle, which 
must be knitted plain. Turn. Take off first. Knit 3 stitches plain. Drop 
the wrapped stitches and pull out the stitch, without kuitting. Do this to 
the end of the row. Then transfer the long siitches to the other needle. 
Bring the thread forward and knit the last 4 stitches on the left needle. 
Turn. Take off first stitch. Knit 3 plain. Skip the first 4 long stitches and 
knit the fifth, and turn it over the 4 unknitted ones for the lattice work. Do 
this with the next 3 stitches and then knit the first 4. The same process 
disposes of the 8 remaining stitches on left needle, and forms a second 
lattice. Knits plain rows, and begin at the fourth row at the top. 

Another lattice work pattern omits the holes and has 2 rows of herring 
bone at the top. 

Cast on 23 stitches. Knit across plain. 

1. Slip 1, knit 2 plain, thread over, narrow, thread over, narrow, knit 16. 

2. Knitl, over 3 times. Eepeat until there are 6 stitches on left needle. 
These you knit plain. 

3. Slip 1, knit 2, over, narrow, over, narrow. Drop the loops and pull out 
the knitted stitch until you have 16 long stitches on the right needh-. Slip 
these on the other needle and turn the needles so that the long stitches are 
in your left hand. Knit the fifth long stitch. Slip it over the first 4. Knit 
the next three tlie same way and slip them over. Then begin at the first of 
the 4 and knit them plain, and knit the 8 stitches remaining like you did 
the first 8. 

4. Knit plain and repeat from the first row. 

This makes pretty bureau lambrequins in seine twine, sewed to card- 
board pieces the size of brackets. Cover with silesia. 



DECORATIVE PAINTING. 

Hr LWA ANV M. J. VLARKSON. 



INTRODUCTION. 

It is within a few years only that amateur art work has been regarded 
with any degree of favor. The popular prejudice that no one but a yeniua 
could paint, deterred many from even making the attempt, and tliua the 
field was left almost entirely to professionals. Of late, however, there has 
been a marked change, and Art has become a household word, which peo- 
ple are growing more and more to understand and to appreciate. Very 
often the clever amateur produces work which might reflect credit upon the 
professional, and the homes of our land show the reflaing influences of 
tasteful decoration. The title of this article indicates its purpose, which is 
to help those who will help themselves. 

There are m.tny who will gladly welcome any method of self improve- 
ment, many who cannot afford a regular course of instruction, or so situated 
that they are debarred from such privileges. It often happens, too, in 
classes, or art schools, that pupils become discouraged because so much 
attention is paid to scholars of promise. They lose all hope of success 
when a teacher's manner clearly implies, " You have no genius ; why should 
I waste time upon you?" Aud so a diffident, sensitive nature is sometimes 
deterred from following up advantages which might ultimately lead to 
success. Now, success in art work is not due to any high-flown ideal in- 
spiration. 

The old adage, " Where there's a will there's a way," holds true of this, 
aa of other undertakings. There is no " royal road " to it, other than that 
of practice and perseverance— the great essentials to all true success. 
While these pages are not written with tlie expectation of turning out artists, 
it is yet to be hoped that they will meet the wants of a large class of readers 
anxious to become acquainted with the various forms of decorative paint- 
ing. 

flo\\t;r painting in oils. 

This branch of art has grown very steadily in favor with many, as it does 
not require the application nor the study necessary to landscape or figure 
painting. It is therefore a favorite with beginners, and furnishes many 
beautiful subjects readily adapted to all kinds of decorative work, such as 
velvet, satin, plush, or other fabric painting, which will each be described 
in order. 

The materials necessary may be briefly summed up as follows : An easel, 
an assortment of colors and brushes, a palette and palette knife, a bottle of 
poppy or linseed oil and one of retouching varnish, a drawing board, char- 
coal for making sketches, a preparation known as fixatif, and an atomizer. 

These materials will be more particularly described as occasion arises. 
The beginner is advised to provide himself also with some academy board, 



218 DECORATIVE I'ArNTlNG. 

or caijviis. 11' the latler is ii«e 1, it is iiecessaiy to tack it Upon a Wooden 
frame called a stretcher, which may be purchased of any dealer in artists' 
niiiteriala. The colors necessary lor flower painting are comparatively few 
in number. The best in use come ready prepared in tubes, and, if properly 
cared for, will keep fresh and in good order for a long time. It is always 
advisable to purchase good material, which proves most economical in the 
end. 

The necessary colors are about as follows : Silver white, yellow ochre, 
burnt sienna, raw umber, Antwerp blue, vermilion, madder lake, light red, 
light zinuober green, terre vert, Vandyke brown, ivory black. The yellows 
used may be the cheap chromes, light, medium and orange, or the cad- 
miums, which are the best for all permanent uses, as the chromes are fugi- 
tive colors, and will in time bjcome dark, and hence are generally 
recommended by artists. 

Other colors may be added to the outfit named, but are not really neces- 
sary, as almost any desired combination may be had by the use of the 
abuve mentioned colors. A very simple subject should be chosen by the 
novice in art. Our gardens and fields afford many that are well worthy 
consideration. 

Take, for instance, the common thistle, found by the roadside in any 
rural district. This is not only an easy subject, but a very pleasing one, 
either for a plaque or panel, and a description of it may be useful to the 
voung amateur, A pale sky ground is as eflective as any that could ,be 
used for this design. It is often thought desirable to paint the background 
first, and after it is dry to sketch in tlie design. Many of the hand-books 
upon painting, as also the art journals, a few years ago advised this method 
almost entirely. But now a background is almost always laid in with the 
subject and proceeds with it, this latter method being adopted at present 
in nearly all art schools or studios. 

The free handling of a subject seems to require this treatment, and it is 
therefore strongly recommended as superior to the older method of pro- 
cedure. The skv ground, which la so effective for the thistle design, mny 
be graduated in tone from light at top to quite dark at the lower portion of 
either plaque or panel. The lighter portion of flowers or foliage should 
show against the light ground, and the more intense colors agamst the 
deeper or medium tint. Otherwise the picture will not be properly balanced, 
and the outlines will be too clear cut against the background— a serious de- 
fect as the beauty of such a subject depends much upon is harmonious 
blending and softness. To paint this subject, the outlines are first sketched 
with the soft charcoal pencils, and the use of the fixatif is now apparent. 
These outlines would be easily rubbed, and the fixatif is needed to make 
them permanent. The atomizer is a little instrument used to throw the 
fixatif in the form of vapor over the sketch, which secures it from all injiiry 
bv nibbing. If natural flowers are not to be had, a good hand-painted 
Btudvwill be found very useful. Many find it difficult to paint directly 
from" the natural object, which requires considerable knowledge ot perspec- 
tive and drawing. A flat copy is much more easily sketched, as it can be 
taken off upon transparent or tracing paper and transferred to the canvas 
i.i correct outline, a method preferred to the less aspiring student who 
does not aim to perfect himself in the art. 

To p lint the thistles, the colors are taken out upon the palette somewhat 
in this order : white, a little light chrome or cadmium, Antwerp blue, mad- 
der lake and ivory black. The arrangement of colors for use is caUed 



DECORATIVE PAIXTINV. 219 

" setting the palette," and should always be done before beginning work. 
The exact proportion of each color to be used in the combinatious neces- 
sary for the subject is a matter of judgment-and the result of experience 
and practice. An artist may lay down fixed rules as to the exact colors 
necessary to produce certain results, but he cannot teach the pupil how 
much of each color is required in these combinations. That is something 
to be learned, as has been said, by experience and observation. For in- 
stance, in painting the sky ground for the panel of thistles, the colors 
needed are white, Antwerp blue, a trifle madder lake, Hght chrome or cad- 
mium and a very little ivory black. The crude blue is thus toned or quali- 
fied by the admixture of other colors. Care slioiild be taken, however, not 
to use too much of the qualifying color. While a liitle black is needed in 
almost every combination, it should be added sparingly, not enough to 
•dull or muddy the tint. Here it is useful in toning down the blue and 
■white, while the madder lake is also added to give warmth. The colors are 
•combined by mixing lightly with the brush upon the palette. They should 
not be rubbed down with the palette knife, us this dulls them and entirely 
destroys their brilliancy of tone. Taking a good-sized bristle brush, lay 
on the color freely. Toward the bottom of the panel, deepen the tone 
by adding more black and enough madder lake to produce a slightly 
purplish tint. The flowers are now painted in while the ground is still 
wet. For this, use Antwerp blue, white, ma'dder lake, qualified by a very 
little raw umber and ivory black. In the shadows a trifle burnt sienna 
should be added. The leaves of the thistle are a peculiar glaucous tint, a 
rather dull green, p issing into blue, with gray, silvery lights. To paint 
these leaves, Antwerp blue, white, light chrome or cadmium, and a trifle 
madder lake and ivory black will be needed. Burnt sienna is used very 
freely in the shadows. The tone should be kept quite gray, and the stems 
made still lighter by adding more white. The correct handling of the 
brush is an important point with many, but this, like the proper combina- 
tion of color, is something to be learned by experience. Niggling is to be 
avoided, and this may be done by the early use of large brushes. 

Fnie tools, prettiness and over-finish are fortunately cominj? to be re- 
garded with disfavor, while the free handling of a subject is considered 
artistic. The illustration shown of pond lilies in their native element is 
also a fine subject for flower painting in oils. The method is as follows : 

The sky is first laid in with Antwerp blue, silver white and light cad- 
mium, toned with a very little ivory black in the deeper accents. Toward 
the horizon line the tone becomes lighter, and shows more warmth of 
color. For this, use white, yellow ochre, a little light red or burnt sienna, 
and a trifle ivory black. The light, fleecy clouds are painted with white, 
yellow ochre, a little Antwerp blue, ivoi-y black and light red. It is best 
to lay in the general masses of liijht and shade throughout the entire pic- 
ture at first, leaving all small details for a later painting. For the water, 
which is very dark in shadow, use black, Antwerp blue and burnt sienna. 
Let this be at first a flat, transiparent painting. And just here it is well to 
note the use of oil as a medium for thinning the paint. As a rule, very 
little]medium is needed ; tlie paints are applied just as they come from the 
tubes, but where a considerable surface is to be covered, refined linseed or 
poppy oil may be mixed with the paint to spread it more easily, or to give 
transparency, as in shadows, etc. 

If it should dry too slowly, a drop oi Siccatif de Courtray may be added 



o^O DECOiiATIVE VAlNTlNd. 




DEOOKATITE PANEI — POND LIUES, 



DECORATIVE PAINTING. 221 

to a small quantity of oil upon the palette. All these requisites can be had 
of any dealer in artiste' materials. 

In the lighter tones of the water it will be necessary to add more white 
and a little blue, with yellow ochre and burnt sienna. 

After the general masses of the painting are Idd in, details may be car- 
ried on. Tiie lilies are first painted a general tone, using silver white, 
black, Antwerp blue and madder lake. Go over each petal with this tone, 
which is called the lociil color. Afterwards the deeper accents of shadow 
are put in with Vandyke brown, bui'ut sienna and black, and the lights, tiiat 
is to say, where the light strikes the flower most directly, touched on with 
white and a trifle madder lake. 

Lights should , be painted very haavily, and with a full brush, while 
shadows should be thinner and transparent. Take a clean brush for the 
lights, which need to be clear and brilliant. Where the centers of the 
flowers are seen use cadmium No. 2, with yellow ochre, and shade with 
burnt sienna and a touch of blue iu the very heart of the flower. The sta- 
mens are not as clearly defined in a large panel of this kind as they would 
be in a smaller sketch of the flowers alone. 

For the lily pads, use Antwerp blue, light cadmium and yellow ochre, 
with burnt sienna in the shaoowe . The stroke of the brush may be taken 
in circular sweeps to give the oval appearance to the leaf, and where the 
under side shows, a little vermilion, light red, deep cadmium and yellow 
ochre are uaed with veiy good effect, especially in the immediate fore- 
ground of picture. The grasses are painted lastly with light zinnober 
green, terre vert, black and white, shaded with Antwerp blue. Vary the 
tone, painting lighter where seen against the pale sky tints. 

The feathery grasses at the top of panel are made with white, light cad- 
mium, and a trifle ivory black, shaded with madder lake, blue and white. 
The lilies show a reflection in the water. This is painted with the local 
color of the flower. Drag the brush across the water, and then soften the 
lines afterward with a large clean brush by drawing lightly over the can- 
vas, in order to give them indistinctness. The reflection of grasses is also 
shown, being made witli up and down, instead of cross strokes of the brush. 
The dragon-flies are painted with orange cadmium, Antwerp blue, and 
white, shaded with madder lake. A touch of emerald green may be given 
them if it happens to be in the color box. 

While these directions are given thus minutely for beginners, more ad- 
vanced pupils will do well to reproduce this pretty panel in color, enlarging 
it to an attractive size. A study of this kind will do much toward helping 
the pupil to understand the principles of harmonious coloring, and a few 
good examples of this sort will be of great advantage. Copying studies, 
provided they possess real merit, is always a good and helpful method, 
and should not be disparaged, as it so often is, by instructors of the young. 

The flat copy is not subject to changes, which are a disadvantage to the 
student of nature, and as each artist has some particular method of his 
own, a varied knowledge of materials and handling may be acquired in this 
way. As a preliminary to the study of nature, notliing could be better 
than tlie practice of copying the work of good artists. 

That flower painting is an attractive branch of art, any one who has seen 
good work of this kind cannot but admit, and it is a relief to meet with it 
in our art galleries, after the eye has tired of the endless succession of por- 
traits, landscapes and marines. It will be readily seen that the study of 
flowe? painting for decorative purposes alone h£i,8 done much toward the 



222 



DECORATIVE PAINTING. 



refinement of home, and contributed largely toward its beauty and enjoy- 
ment. 

The decorated gourd here shown is one suggestion out of many number- 
less ways of usiiif,' the brush for home adornment. The most commonplace 
articles can be transformed thus into dainty and charming ornaments. 
Those interested in bazaars, or the sale of fancy work, will find the brush 
as useful as the needle for decorative purposes. 

PEN ETCHINGS IN OILS, FAMILIARLY KNOWN AS KENSINGTON PAINTING. 

Althouirh this branch of paintine is generally termed " Ktnsington," it; 
is of American origin, and did not take its rise in tb.e English school of that 

name. It is doubtless so called because; 
of its resemblance to the well knowm 
Kensington embroidery, and when well 
and artistically executed is handsome) 
and efi'ective as decoration for scarfs,, 
portieres, valences, cushions, toilet sets, 
and numberless articles of fancy work 
and home adornment. It is to bo re- 
gretted that this work has been so scan- 
dalized by the many who have made of 
it a failure, as to bring it somewhat into, 
disrepute, for when correctly done it is 
not to be excelled in appearance by the 
most elegant embroidery. On velvet or 
plush the effect is perhaps richest. Oui 
silU or satin it is delicate but less el- 
ective. It may be used, however, wher- 
ever embroidery could be substituted.. 
In this way it has been adapted to the 
decoration of dresses and articles of 
wearing apparel with very beautiful re- 
sults. It is also used upon wooden 
panels and terra cotta ware, but is not 
so appropriate for such purposes. The 
work, being in imitation of embroidery, 
loses its characteristic features when 
applied to any article not within the 
scope of decorative needlework. To 
execute this work the amateur will pro- 
ceed as follows : 
The method is very simple and yet requires considerable skill and a good 
share of patience and perseverance in order to its successful accomplish- 
ment. The fabric to be painted must be stretched either in an embroidery 
frame or upon a drawing board. The design is then sketched or stamped 
upon it, giving all the prominent outlines, veining of leaves, etc. 

The outSt of the work should contain the tube paints used for plain 
painting, with perhaps a few additional colors, a half dozen Colorado gold 
lacquered pens, some small bristle l)rnslies with flat points, a fine sable 
brush, and a drawing board or frame as stated above. It is also desirable 
to have a bottle ot deodorized benzine for removing spots, or rubbing out 
errors, wliich can be done when the paint is fresh. 

To begin work, put out on the palette the necessary colors,, and. aft^t 




DECORATED GOTTKD. 



DECORATIVE FAINTINa. 223 

getting the local lint of the flower, commence by laying the paint thickly 
ovei- leaf, or petal, with one of the smaller bristle brushes, Tlie shadows 
may uext be put in, then the liigh lights as in ordinary painting, and 
several flowers can be gone over iu this manner, until the paint begins to 
get a little set, or tacky. Now, taking the pen, draw the point from the outer 
edge ot leaf or petal towards the center, in short strokes, imitating the 
stitches in crewel work or Kensington embroidery. There are other ways 
of shading which are sometimes more effective, one is letting the fabric 
show through, or not laying the paint on as heavily in the deeper accents. 
This is sometimes very effective where the fabi-ic is velvet or plush in rich, 
deep colors. Another method is to scrape away the paint, and still another, 
to lay a second coat over the local color, and then etch both in together. 
This second coat should be thickly and smoothly laid over the first, and 
then when the pen is drawn through it the two tints will be found to blend 
charmingly. This is especially suited to conventional or arabesque de- 
signs. A variety of tints may be obtained in this way in exact imitation of 
embroidery. 

The veining of leaves, stems, stamens of flowers, etc., should be some- 
what raised above the other work. This is done with a fine pointed sable 
brush well filled with paint, and twisted as it is drawn along, dislodging 
the color in a continuous roll. Where an exact imitation of embroidery is 
desired, these rolls should be drawn around every petal and leaf. Couch- 
ing is imitated very perfectly in this way. For the centers of such flowers 
as daisies, asters, single roses, etc., the paint is laid on very thickly and 
then drawn up with the brush in little points, or the pen may be used in 
the same manner in order to get the right effect. Flowers in masses, as 
golden rod, sumac, snowball or feathery blossoms are best dotted on heavily 
with a stiff brush, the stems done iu rolls, and the leaves scattered in with 
the pen. 

Kensington painting is admirably adapted to work of ecclesiastical de- 
sign. Its cheapness and the rapidity with which it maybe executed, will 
commend it to many. Lettering for church pui-poses, by careful shading, 
can be made to stand out in liold relief. Alter the worker becomes iicciis- 
tomed to the use of the pen the color may lie laid very freely over a con- 
siderable portion of the design before it is scratched in with the pen, which 
greatly expedites the woik. 

The cushion shown in illustration is handsomely decorated with a bunch 
of pink and wliite azeleas in pen painting. The ground is a deep bronze 
gold. The material velvet and plush combined, the contrasting half being 
a rich claret coloi". 

It is advised that the pupil obtain, if possible, an artistic piece of Ken- 
sington embroidery, and note carefully the coloring and stitches. In this 
way the work may bo made to resemble it most closely, while the cost will 
be nothing iu comparison. 

The white azeleas are laid in at first with a general tone of gray, using 
silver whitp, Antwerp blue, a little yellow ochre and ivory black. Burnt 
sienna is added for the shadows, and the high lights painted with pure 
white. The pink flowers, which are pale in tone, are painted with madder 
lake, white and King's yellow. The latter is a very useful color, in many 
cases taking the place of more expen-<ive cadmiums, and as this branch of 
painting requires the generous use of color, this is an important item to 
the economical. 

yse Vandyke brown in the shading of the pink flowers^ and white fof 



221 



BECOBAIIVE FAIN TIN a. 



the lights. The green leaves, which are cool in tone, are painted with Ant- 
werp blue, chrome yellow, and white, witb ivory black and a trifle madder 
lake. A little practice and a good copy will soon enable the student to 
execute the work with rapidity and success. What is known as conven- 
tional design is very effective in this branch of work. That is, a pattern 
independent of natural fcirm or coloring. Crescents or disks, intermingled 
with flowers, Japanesque design, arabesque or renaissance patterns, may all 
be done with the pen in clever imitation of rich embroidery. lu using the 
oil colors upon light-colored fabrics, a medium should be mixed with 




80F.\ PILLOW, IN KENSIKOTON. 



them to keep the oil from spreading, or the back of material rubbed freely 
with magnesia. 

OIL PAINTING UPON SILK AND SATIN. 

Aa many dainty articles for Christinas, birthday, or bridal gifts are now 
made of silk or satin, it is not to be wondered at that those who handle the 
brush skillfully gladly avail themselves of this metbod of decoration, 
which is not only very handsome, but easily executed, and effectively 
adapted to various purposes. 

The colors most needed are silver white, light red, vermilion, madder 
lake, King's yellow, chrome yellow, or cadmium, burnt sienna, terre vert, 
ziunober green, Vandyke brown, rose madder, or madder lake, Antwerp 
blue, raw umber and ivory black. Mauve is an excellent color for pansies 
or purple flowers, and orange chrome or cadmium for deep yellow flowers, 
Buch as nasturtiums, cone flowers, etc. The firmer and heavier tlie nap ot 
the satin used, the better. Thin and sleazy material, wantinst firmness of 
texture, is very difiScult to decorate and scarcely pays for the labor ex- 



DECORATIVE PAINTING. 



225 



pended upon it. If the worker is able to draw, natural flowers may be 
copied, but for those unable or uuwilliug to do this, there are mauy pretty 
patterns which can be neatly stamped upon the fabric. By mixing decoline 
or a medium with the paint, the stamping c^n be done with silver white, 
using a perforated design. 

Daisies, honeysuckle, apple, or peach blossoms, feathery clematis, deli- 
cate tea roses, violets, white and purple lilacs, pansies, are all excelleut 
subjects for silk or satin decoration. 

A design of apple blossoms would be painted thus : Squeeze out upon 
the palette a good quantity of silver 
white and a little rose madder, and 
for the green leaves, terre vert, cad- 
mium, burnt sienna and Antwerp 
blue. Begin by putting in the gen- 
eral toue of the blossom with sil- 
ver white, rose madder and a trifle 
black. For the calyx, use terre vert 
and cadmium, and in the center of 
the flower burnt sienna and cad- 
mium, with a toucli of zinnober 
green. This for the yellow sta- 
mens. The high lights are painted 
with silver white and a trifle mad- 
der lake. The leaves require more 
transparency of coloring. For these 
use terre vert, cadmium, burnt si- 
enna and Antwerp blue. Where the 
under side of the leaf shows, use 
silver white with the colors, and 
a little ivory black. The grayish 
branches are painted with Vandyke 
brown, silver white and black, with 
raw umber and burnt sienna in the 
shadows. 

The banner here illustrated is a 
very pretty subject for oil painting 
upon satin. The material is a gold- 
en olive shade, finished below with 
a band of sapphire blue plush and 
ornaments of blue and gold chenille. 
The design is a spray of morning 
glories with spider web in left-hand 
corner. 

To paint the morning glories, which are a delicate pink banded witb 
white, use madder lake, silver white, yellow ochre and a trifle ivory black, 
for the local color. The shadows are painted with light red, raw umber 
and white. The white stripes or bands, with white, madder lake and a 
little ivory black. The lights are painted with same colors. The centers 
are pale, almost white. For these use white, light cadmium and madder 
lake. The green leaves are painted wirli Antwerp blue, wliite, cadmium, 
light red and ivory black, shaded wi h burnt sienna and black. The stems 
and tendrils, which are yellower in tone, with light zinnober green, white, 
light cadmium and a litde burnt sienna and black in the shadows. The 
spider web is prettiest drawn in carefully with silver paint, which comes 




DECOBATED BANNEB. 



22G DEUOUATIVE I'AINTING. 

ready pnpared for decorativa purposes, or it may be painted a silvery 
gray, using black, white and a trifle of jellow ocbre. 

It should be borne in mind in painting upon silk, or satin, thit the work 
is purely decorative, and hence elaborate designs are unsuitable. In 
selecting a design avoid a subject that is heavy or in masses. Light, airy, 
graceful patterns are preferable, and less difficult of execution. 

OIL PAINTING UPON PLUSH. , 

Painting upon plush with oil colors is very similar to the methods 
already described, only that a very much larger quantity of paint is 
required, as the heavy nap of the fabric absorbs it freely. The designs, 
unlike those for satin painting, should be large and bold, jis small, fine 
blossoms are not only unsuitable, but it is quite impossible to represent 
them upon this fabi-ic. The important point to be observed in painting 
upon plush is to preserve the nap from matting down. The method of 
plastering on the paint so as to leave depressions in the surface of the 
material, is extremely ugly in its results. The fabric itself is too beautiful 
to mar in this manner. The paint should be worked lightly into tlie nap 
instead of being laid flatly upon its surface. This is accomplished by 
patiently repeating the process until the color takes hold, using a stiff 
bristle brush. Very charming :^ffects may be had in this way. A mantel 
valence of peacock or sapphire blue, painted with branches of dogwood, or 
with large white magnolia, is very rich and effective. Or the ground may 
be ruby or deep maroon, with sunflowers, or large yellow lilies. 

Table scarfs of plush are very elegant when well painted with subjects in 
harmony with the ground chosen. 

Small tables, plush covered and hand-painted, ai-e now both attractive 
and popular. The same colors advised for plain painting are required. 
No medium is necessary, as the paint will not spread if carefully used, and 
all spots can be easily removed with benzine. 

PAINTING IN WATEE COLORS. 

There are two distinct methods of water color painting, but it is p'jr- 
posed to touch only upon the most popular of the two — that is, where the 
color is applied in washes instead of the older method of stippling. The ' 
outfit needed is not elaborate : 

A drawing board, and china palette for the colors, some paper, brushes 
and paints embrace all that is necessary. A good quality of paper is very 
desirable. It sliould not be too rough a grain, nor yet smooth and fine in 
texture. Whatman's Imperial is very satisfactory. If vei-y heavy, it need 
only be tacked or gummed to the drawing board. If lighter, it must be 
mounted in a stretcher made for the purpose. The moist colors in tubes, 
or half moist in pans, are the best, and work the most readily. The follow- 
ing list of colors will suffice for a beginner: Chinese white, yellow ochre, 
cadmium, cobalt, sepia, madder brown, rose madder, Vandyke brown, 
lamp-black, Boman ochre, burnt sienna, light red, and raw umber. Payne's 
gray is a very useful paint, and a. few other colors may be needed from 
time to time as the pupil advances in his knowledj,'e of their uses. 

Camels' hair and brown sable brushes are used, one large size for 
washing in the color and some fine points foi* finishing and details. The ' 
brushes are sometimes called pencils, and are altogether unlike tliose 
used for oil colors. They should be kept entirely free from all oil, which 
renders them unfit for water color. The paper being stretched face up- 



• DECORATIVE PAINTING. 221 

ward, which is easily told by reading upon it the maker's name in water 
lines from left to right, a sketch is made, either with a soft pencil or with 
the brush loaded with the lucal tint of the flowt-r to be painted. The color 
is now applied, well diluted with water, after iirat moisteniug the surface 
of the paper. The brush is dipped into the color ami the tint spread freely 
over the surface of the paper, as rapidly as possible, iu order to get one 
even touo. SLiould the color run too much, tlie board or stretcher-may be 
inverted, and when drops collect at the edge, they may be taken off with a 
piece of blotting paper. It requires some little practice to put these washes 
of color on smoothly, and they should not be touched until thoroughly dry. 
Each tone is deepened by repeated washes of color, and details are added 
lastly with the fine brushes. In painting a flower, for example, the local 
tonefs first washed in, and when this is dry the'shadows are laid in with 
simple washes of color, whicli may Ije deepened as much as required by 
successive washes. Thin the paint enough to flow smoothly from the brush. 
Deeper accents of ahadow may be afterwards put iu with finer brushes, but 
all stippling ii to be avoided. The high lights may be left- out while the 
washes are first laid on, or they may be taken out with blotting paper. The 
latter method is perhaps the the most approved. Use the brush at first, 
wetting tho spot to be taken out freely, then with a piece of soft clean 
blotting paper take up the superflous color. Chinese white is sometimes 
used for very sharp liglita, but this is a rflethod not to Jje recommended, as 
the work is better done as far as possible in transparent washes. Some- 
times, when the paper becomes rubbed, by erasures, the white may be used 
carefully to advantage by mixing with the other colors, but care should he 
taken to keep the paper smooth, and to have the design accurately sketched, 
to avoid, as far as possible, all corrections. A good sketch is, in fact, an all 
important point, as f lults are not as easily remedied as in oil painting, and 
the marks of the lead pencil are difficult to erase. 

Delicate shading of white or pale flowers is best imitated with Payne's 
gray. For rich, deep flowers, vermilion and" rose madder will be found 
useful t when inclined to purple,- cobalt may be added. For the rich tones 
used in backgrounds and-in foli.nge, sepia and Vandyke brown are excel- 
lent. Bi'own madder and' umber are also useful. Very dark shadows or. 
tones will require successive washes in order to givei them sufficient depth. 

As an illustration of the subject, take, for example, the single wild rose, 
generally chosen because of its simplicitv of form and coloriug. The local 
color of the rose is a pale tint, best imitated by rose madder, a wash of 
which is laid over the flower, and when thoroughly dry the deeper accents 
of color are washeil in with madder lake. After this wash is dry the shad- 
ows are painted, using a very little cobalt and light cadmium mixed with 
the lake. The lights are afterward taken out as already described. Care 
siiould be taken not to wet the brushes in the mouth, as many of the pig- 
ments are of a very poisonous nature. 

WATER COLORS UPON SILK OR SATIN. 

In using water colors upon silk or satin, ChinesR white is mixed with all 
the colors to give them body, and the design is first filled in with white as 
a foundation for all tints. A little pure gum arnbic, the kind used for 
medicinal purposes, dissolvefl in the water with which paints are diluted, 
will prevent them from rubbing off or spreading, and cause them to work 
smoothly and with greater ease. 

The paint brush ia thus brought into requisition to beautify articles of 



228 



DECORA! I VE PAINTING. 



dress, faus, scarfs, cravat ends, even dresses arc now decorated in what is 
known as the Kococo style, The amateur may also venture to exercise in- 
genuity and skill in the decoration of lamp shades and screens. The illus- 
tration given shows a shade of rose pink silk, cut into sections, like tiie 
ordinary paper shade. Each section is painted with a different design, one 
being daisies, anothor trailing arbutus, a third sweet pea, etc. This can 
easily be made up at home much cheaper than it can be bought, an im- 
portant consideration with 
many, who, with limited 
means, yet possess a lik- 
ing and taste for pretty 
things. The subjects for 
this branch of decorative 
work are very numerous — 
azelias, lilies, roses, pop- 
pies, hawthorn blooms, bri- 
dal wreaths, daffodils, vio- 
lets, jasmiue ; all of these 
afford opportunity for the 
display of good taste in ar- 
rangement and skill in col- 
oring. 

Cliarming sets for the 
IIJ dtf' 'y^^s^' ^ii' ri'L. ^fE\f!'/ttJ ((l^"XlNII?^,Mlli toilet tal)le or di'essing case 

are madu of satin, deco- 
rated with any one of the 
above mentioned designs. 

PAINTING ON BOLTING 
CLOTH OK GADZE. 

Now that Chinese or 
Japanesque design is popu- 
lar, there is a revival of a 
branch of art fashionable 
half a century ago — paint- 
ing upon thin gauze ma- 
terial. Bolting cloth is the 
most used. This is a deli- 
cate gossamer fabric, well 
adapted to many decorative purposes. Amateurs experience some diffi- 
culty in their first attempts because of the delicacy of its texture, but tliis 
is soon overcome by practice and perseverance. Tlie sketch should be 
very correct, as an alteration is almost always a blemish, and an injury to 
the appearance of the painting. 

Tlie materials necessary are either the moiyt water colors or oil paints, 
a few brushes suited to either branch of work, a medium to prevent the 
color from spreading where oil paints are used, and a drawing board 
covered with a thick pad of soft paper. After the desit,'n is sUetched or 
traced in by means of transfer paper, the outlines should be drawn at first 
with a fine brush filled with the local color of the subject. Where water 
colors are used, Chinese white should be mixed with the p:iint and laid 
over every leaf and petal in the manner described for silk or satin painting. 
If oil colore are used, they may be applied in the same manner as for other 




DECORATED LAMP SHADE. 



. DECOliATtVK PAtnTINQ. 229 

work, only that the medium should be used to prevent the color from 
spreading beyond the outlines. If a medium cannot be had, the paints 
may be diluted with turpeniine, but it is nut quite so satisfactory, and must 
be used with some care or the color will spread badly. The usual palette 
is required, with the same kind of brushes employed in other branches of 
decorative painting. Small, rather delicate designs are tlie most appropri- 
ate, such as shown in illustration of decorated fan. 

It is generally desirable to line the g.inze with some delicate tint, har- 
monizing with the subject. The lining of this fan mount is pale blue. In 
painting the desigu of feathery clematis, make the blossoms white and the 
leaves a rich, w:irm green. Lay in at first a foundation of Chinese white 
over tlie whole design, as already described. The blossoms are painted 
with white, yellow ochre, a little cobalt, and rose madder or carmine. 

Paint the local tone at first, which is a pale gray. The high lights are 
afterwards added, using white, a trifle yellow ochre, and black. In shading, 
a little cobalt and burnt sienna is needed. The green leaves are painted 
with white, Antwerp blue, cadmium, burnt sienna and a little raw umber 
and lamp-black for the shadows. The stems and branch with white, sepia, 
a tride cobalt, cadmium and burnt sienna. If oil paints are preferred, the 
same colors may be used, with the following exceptions : In place of rose 
madder or carmine u«e madder lake, ivory black in place of lamp-black. 
Instead of sepia use Vandyke brown, and silver white in place of Chinese 
white. The handling is the same as in ordinary oil painting, only that 
finer brushes mny be required for the small details and the drying medium 
is used with all the paints. 

There are several mediums for sale, advertised by dealers generally, as 
preventatives of the oil spreading in decorative painting. Something of this 
kind is necessary, ami much more desirable than turpentine, which is some- 
times used for the purpose. 

Fan painting, to be caiTied out successfully, must be done before the 
material is mounted. The ftin must be carefully defined upon the material, 
but should not be cut out until the work is completed. It is then sent to 
some one who makes a business of mounting fans. With a little experience 
and practice, numerous chaste and beautiful designs can be well and 
effectively executed. 

D'oyleys of holtng cloth painted, each one with a design of some fruit 
blossom, the fruit itself being too heavy in appeai'ance for so thin agi'ound, 
are very dainty and attractive. 

The panels for lamp shades, mounted upon a wire frame, covered with 
some delicate shade of silk or satin as a lining to the gauze, decorated 
with some graceful desigu, suggests a very charming ornament for parlor 
or drawing-room. Small banners of gaiize, lined in this way and decorated, 
tidies, easel scarfs, sash curtains and numerous other articles, can be made 
of this beautiful material, and decorated in one or other of the ways de- 
scribed. Tapestry colors or Lustra paints can also be used with good effect 
upon bolting cloth. 

TAPESTRY OR DYE PAINTING. 

Tapestry painting can scarcely be styled a modern art, as it has been in 
vogue for centuries past. The very name brings to mind pictures of olden 
time palaces and castle walls draped with lich hangings, the work some- 
times of royalty itself, of titled dames or maidens of high degree. It is 
eaid that even Titian, the great artist, did not scorn to use hia brush in this 



230 



^EQOnAriVE PAlNTrNQ, 




,PEC01iATjrE PAINTlxa. 2^1 

beautiful work with most exquisite effects. Ho^Nevcr this may be, it is a 
branch of art comparatively new in this country, having been introduced 
here only quite recently from France. Tapestry painting has this advant- 
age over'oils. It is far more cleanly, and for this and other reasons will 
commend itself to many to whom the odor of paint and turpentine is par- 
ticularly disagreeable, "and the use of oil colors an objection. Its being 
cleanly, easily and rapidly executed, is much in its favor, and makes it 
. pleasant work tor the most fastidious of lady amateurs. 

Boxes of material, containing the liquid paints specially prepared for the 
purpose can be obtained at quite a reasonable cost. The names of colors 
correspond to those of water color paints, although a little different in their 
properties, being more of the nature of a dye than anything else. Almost 
^ny fabric can be used as a ground for these colors, but the tapestry canvas 
wiil doubtless be found the best for amateur practice. This comes in differ- 
ent wfdths and grades, and can be used for wall hangings, screens, panels, 
and various other purposes. It 8h(nild be stretched as for oil painting, and 
the preliminary details of work are tiie same. The outlines are first 
sketched or pounced upon the fabric with charcoal, and outlined with the 
different colors to be used in the painting. Poliage, for example, in pale 
green, flowers or fruit with the local tint. The drawing should be correctly 
doiie.'and especial attention paid to perspective in landscape or figure 
painting. 

It should be remembered, aldb.'that the different colors are liable to dry 
lighter, or to appear so wlien absorbed by the fabric, and* hence more or 
less allowance sliould be made for this, and colors sometimes made stronger 
in consequence. It is advisible to have several mixtures of tbe same color 
of different degrees of strength for successive paintings. The paints are 
transparent washes or dyes, diluted with water, as in ordinary water colors, 
and although oil and wate» color maybe used instead, the regular tapestry 
paints are generally conceded best for the purpose. The color should be 
washed in as broadly as possible, leaving all details or minute particulars 
for a later painting. Before commencing a wash of- any one color, care 
should be taken to prepare enough to finish it, that it may not app.ear un- 
even in its effects. • ♦ * 

There are from fifteen to thirty colors put up in the boxes. The brushes 
jire similar to those described for oil painting. A generous supply is needed, 
as a brush charged with one color should not be dipped into another tint,' 
but a separate one kept for each color. ' . 

The painting rfiay be carried forward in this manner : 

Bilute Oie colors well with clear, soft water. Let each wash dry, and 
then if too dull or faint, strengthen with successive washes. If too strong 
in tone it may be softened, but care must be tat;en not to apply too deep a 
color, as it is much more difiScult to extract it than it is to lay it on correctly 
at the first. 

The tone is softened and subdued by pressing a dampened cloth or pad 
upon the part of the work' too liigldy colored. Sometimes acids are used to 
extract the color, but this is not advisable to the beginner, as their use re- 
quires considerable practice. If the directions given for water colors are 
- carefully observed it will be an advantage in this branch of work, which ia 
very similar in process. The lights should be left clear, and in blending 
one tone into another begin with the* darker, blending ipto the lighter. 
• The forma, especially of shadows, should be carefully noted, but harsh out- 



232 DECORATIVE PAINTING. 

lines are to be studiously avoided or the principal charm of the painting is 
lost. 

The foregoing directions apply to tapestry painting proper. There are 
other methods, as already hinted, in which oil or water color are used. If 
oil paints, they should be freely diluted with turpentine and rubbed into 
the fabric with stiff bristle brushes, staining or dyeing the nap. The brushes 
may be cut off squarely, thus enabling the paiui to take liold of the nap 
■without laying it down, as for velvet or plush. These fabrics are very 
handsome grounds for this style of work, especially the lighter shades. 
White moleskin velveteen is especially adapted to tbis painting. Other 
names have been given it, such as chenille, araseue painting, etc., but it is 
properly dye or tapestry painting, the method being the same in all re- 
spects. 

The screen shown in illustration is very effective decorated in this manner 
upon velvet or velveteen. This illustration is also introduced as a suggest- 
ive design for 

BRONZE PAINTING 

which it is now our purpose to consider briefly, it being a very beautiful 
and attractive branch of decorative work. 

Under the name of bronze painting may be properly classed all brush 
work executed with metallic colors, variously styled Lustra, Iridescent, 
Prismatine painting, etc., etc. 

This is a form of art especially suited to purely decorative purposes, and 
has of late become deservedly popular. The lustrous effects resemble in rich- 
ness Oriental eralroidery, with its sheen of rainbow hues and gorgeous 
brilliancy. Its pojiularity is not to be wondered at when it is understood 
with what rapidity it can be executed, and what telling effects can be had 
at a tritling expenditure of time and trouble. 

As in tapestry painting, bold effects slwuld be sought rather than fine- 
ness of detail, as the work is shown to better advantage at a distance. A 
simple design is best suited to the purpose ; the colors themselves being 
inadequate to the representation of nature. Conventional design is in ex- 
cellent taste. Birds of gav plumage or tropical coloring, bright winged in- 
sects, and similar subjects, are very desirable. Fruit can also be treated 
with richness of effect, while foliage with autumnal tints will admit of 
reali^iic treatment better than any other subject. 

The le.af of the maple or Virginia creeper, in variegated shades of crim- 
son, scarlet, gold and emerald, with its intense reds and sunny yellows, 
afford a charming subject of peculiar interest to the amateur. To begin 
the work, let all outlines be clear and decisive. The usual methods of 
sketching or stamping can be followed. The richest ground for the paint- 
ing is plush or velvet, which sets off the bronzes to perfection. 

The colors come in powdered form dry, and need to be mixed with a pre- 
pared medium. They are thus applied to the fabric with stiff bristle 
brushes. A palette with little weils, or hjllows for mixing the col rs, is 
very useful. Placing some of the bronze powder in one of these wells, the 
medium is added until of the thickness ol cream, or syrup. Thi- mixture 
needs stirring frequently, and kept a uniform consistency throughout tUe 
work, otherwise the painting will be dull in some places, in others bril- 
liant. This is an important point. Much of the bronze painting done by 
amateurs is dull and sickly in appearance, owing to this defective method 
of working. The aim should be an even uniformity throughout. 



DECORATIVE PAINTING. 



233 



Should the mixture thickeu up too much, a drop of turpentine may be 
added, but turpentine must not be used iis a medium. A very little ex- 
periment will show how the colors are to be mixed, and it is an excellent 
plan for the beginner to practice upon some spare material, until some de- 
gree of proficiency is made in this part of the work, as it is an important 
consideration. 

There are two methods of procedure in order to attain the right effect of 
light and shadow. One is to lay in the color over the whole design, shading 
over it afterward ; the other to let the fabric itself do the shading, by leav- 




SCKEEN, IN TAPESTRY OK BRONZE PAINTING. 

ing it untouched in the deeper accents, or at least shading it so lightly 
that it shows through sufficiently to produce an appearance of shadow. 
The latter is perliaps the most artistic method, when rightly understood.^ 

A leaf or petal is painted with one stroke of the brush well loaded with 
color, by drawing it firmly over the space outlined in the design. The leaf 
may also be edged witli color and then tilled in, if preferred, working from 
the point downwards. Then the portion in shadow outlined in the same 
manner, but more lightlv. The veining of leaves is best imitated when 
the under painting is dry. A fine brush is used for this wwk, and the 
paint applied very thickly. 



234 DECQEATTVE PMXflXO. 

Scmetimea tbe subject needs streugtbeuiug by touches of bright color, 
or by laying contrasting shades over the ground color while the work is 
atill wet. This is especially effective in fritit designs, the bloom of peaches, 
high lights of grapes, woodbine, berries, etc. These brilliant 'touches are 
given in a different way from that already described. The brush is moist- 
ened with the medium and then dipped into the dry color, which is applied 
over tlie other colors while yet moist. This gives brilliancy difiicult to ob- 
tain in any other way. A few explicit directions may be of use in general 
painting. 

For subjects to be colored white, silver is tbe Jocal tint, steel iu the 
shadows, and brilliant silver for the high lights. 

In yellow, pale gold is used for a general tone, with orange or fire in the 
deeper accents. The dull colors mixed with the metallics are very useful 
lor certain effects, as brown with orange, or dull red with lire or orange, 
and sometimes black in very deep tones. 

To obtain deep, intense reds, it is necessary to iise oil colors in combi- 
nation with th» metallics, as there are no equivalents for them in Lustra 
paints. These may be touched up afterward with the metallic lire or 
carmine. 

Light blue is ofteii combined with silver for lighter shades, and dark 
blue for nhadows, while silver is- used for the high lights. Piuk and silver 
m.ay be mixed for delicate tints, as apple blossoms or pale pink flowers. 
Carmine is used in the deeper accents, and silver in the lights. • 

Purple is often combined with blue for fruit or for flowers, with paie 
purple in the lighter accents, and sometimes silver for brilliant touches. 
There is no limit to the variety of combinations, and no one need complflin 
that there is lack of varielj'. The*rtwl, the peacock, the parrot, are good 
subjects this style of painting.. The screen shown in illustration gives a 
suggestion of novel and quaint design. . Screens thus decorated with bril- 
liant and well-blended colors have a singularly striking effect, and are rich 
and elegant in appearance. The folding screen is very popular ' now, and 
affords pretty oppiu'tunities for decorative painting. 

* • 

HINTS IN CONCLUSION. 

It is thought best to give, in conclusion, a few explanatory hints useful 
to all branches of decorative painting. 

By high lights are meant those planes of a subject which the light strikes 
most directly. 

The local color is the natural color, uninfluenced by accidents of light or 
• shade. 

By tone is generally intended the quality of color combination, whether 
light Or dark, rich, deep, warm, cold, etc. , 

By accent any particular emphasis of light or shadow. A particular ob- 
ject is said to be in ?-eZie/ when it seems to set out or project from the back- 
ground. » 

Tbe masses of a picture are its large divisions of light and shadow-. 

The details, its minute particulars, as distinguished from its masses. * 

The lay-in of a painting is the flat, transparent coloring of its masses. , 

By handling is meant the manner of using the bru^h. 

The term palette has two distinct meanings : 

Pirst, the article by that name used to hold the paints while working. 

Secondly, an expression signifying the particular combination of color 
■ used in painting the different parts of a subject. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



Acting Charades. 

Chakades may be performed after a variety of diflferent fashions. First 
and foremost, we have the highly finished charade, with both speech ami 
action carefully prepared and duly rehearsed. Secondly, there is the spcken 
charade, got np on the spnr'of the moment, words and action being alike 
e% tempore. We have seen a good deal of fun got out of charades of this 
description; but -unless the actors are of more than average* ability, and 
have hiid some, little dramatic experience, thft chancer are much against 
any very satisfactory result. On the whole, we should strongly recom- 
mend that where a charade is got up ex (einpwe, it should be acted in pan- 
tomime only. 

It is of course understood that, whatever be the particular mode of per- 
formance,*a charade always, represents a " word "to be gnfessed, with one 
scene k) each syllable (or group of consecutive syllables), and a final scene 
representing the whole word. The successive scenes are st)metimes wholly 
indepen'lent of each other, but in the more finished class of charades are 
'made parts of a complete drama. The following are good chai'ade words : 

Knighthood, Dramatic, 

Penitent, • ' - Infancy, 

Looking-glass, * Snow-ball, 

Hornpipe,- Detinite, 

Necklace, ' . Bowstring, 

Indolent, . Carpet, 

Light-house, • ^ Sunday, 

Hamlet, • Shy lock, • 

Pantry • Earwig, 

Phantom, • Matrimony, 

• Windfall, . • Cowhidiug, 

Sweepstake, Pigtail, 

Sackcloth, • Welcome, 

. Antidote, Friendship, 

Antimony, - . « Horsemanship, 

Pearl-powder, Coltsfoot, 
King-fisher, - Bridegroom, 

Card-sharper, . • Housemaid, 

Footfall, . ' Curl-paper, 

Housekeeping, Crumpet.- 

It will be obvious that in some of these instances- 
" Card-sharper," " Housekeeping "- 
to supply the vwtif for a single scene. 

We will take the word " Windfall " as affording a ready illustration of 
the pantomime charade, and be it remembered* that, in charades of this 
description, the shorter and simi'ler the action the better. Thus the first 
scene, "Wind,"ma^ be represented by a German band, puffing away at 
imaginary ophicleides and trombones, with distended cheeks and frantic 
energy, though in perfect silence. The next scene, " Fall," may be a party 



-as, for instance, 
-two syllables must be taken together 



236 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

of boys on a slide, who " keep the pot a-boiliug " for a, moment or two, and 
then exeunt. Enter an elderly gentleman, with umbrella up ; walks un- 
suspectingly on to the slide, and falls. The complete word " Windfall " 
may be represented by a young man sitting alone, leaning his elbows on his 
hands, and having every appearance of being in the last stage of impecuni- 
osity. To produce this effect, he may go through a pantomime of exiimiu- 
ing his purse and showing it empty, searching his pockets, and turning 
them one by one inside out, shaking liis head mouriifully, and sitting down 
again, throwing into his expression as much despair as he conveniently can. 
A postman's knock is heard ; a servant enters with a legal-looking letter. 
The impecunious hero, tearing it open, produces from it a roll of bank- 
notes, and forthwith gives way to demonstratious of the most extravagant 
delight, upon which the curtain falls. 

A very absurd, but uot the less meritorious, charade is represented as 
follows : The curtain rises, disclosing a city street. Two gentlemen in out- 
door costume cross the stage from opposite sides, and bow gravely on 
passing each other, one of them saying as tliey do so, " Good morning, 
doctor." The curtain falls, and the audience are informed that the charade, 
which represents a word of six syllables, is complete in that one scene. 
When the spectators have guessed, or been told that the word is " niet-a- 
physiciau," the curtain again rises on precisely the same scene, and the 
same performance, action for action, and word for word, is repeated over 
again. The audience hazard tlie same word "metaphysician" as the an- 
swer, but are informed that they are wrong — the word now represented 
having only three syllables — and they ultimately discover that the word is 
" metaphor " (met afore). 

In another charade of similar character, when the curtain rises, nothing 
is seen but a little wooden horse. The spectators are told that this forms 
a word of two syllables, representing an island in the iEgeau Sea. If the 
spectators are well up in ancient geography, they may possibly guess that 
Delos (deal 'oss) is referred to. Tlie curtain falls, and again I'ises on the 
same contemptible object, which is now stated to represent a second island 
in the same part of the world. The classical reader will at once see that 
Samos (same 'oss) is intended. Again the curtain rises on the representa- 
tion of another island. Tioo little wooden horses now occupy the scene, 
Pares (pair 'oss) being the island referred to. Once more the curtain rises, 
this time on a group of charming damsels, each reclining in a woe-begone 
attitude, surrounded by pill-boxes and physic-bottles, and apparently 
suffering from some painful malady. This scene represents a word of three 
syllables, and is stated to include all that has gone before. Cyclades (sick 
ladies), the name of the group to which Delos, Samos, and Pares belong, is 
of course, the answer. 

Another very comical pantomime charade is a performance representing 
the word "imitation" and known as "The Hutchinson Family." The 
spectators are informed that the charade about to be performed can only 
be exhibited to one person at a time. One person is accordingly admitted 
into the room in which the actors are congregated. The unhappy wight 
stares about him with curiosity, not unmingled with apprehension, fearing 
to be made the victim of some practical joke ; nor is his comfort increased 
by finding that his every look or action is faithfully copied by each person 
present. This continues until he has either guessed or given up the word, 
when a fresh victim ia admitted, and the new initiate becomes in turn one 
of the actors. Sometimes, however, the victim manages to turn the laugh 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 237 

acaiuet his persecutors. We have kuowu of a young lady, seeing through 
the joke quietly take a chair and remain motionless, reducmg the matter 
to a simple trial of patience between herself and the company. Ou another 
occasion we remember, a saucy schoolboy, finding that the company (a 
mixed party of ladies and gentlemen) did him the honor to imitate all hia 
actions, finally stood on his head in a comer, to the complete discomfiture 

of the rest of the party. ,,,.,,... ^u j 

"We give a single specimen of the more finished kmd of Acting Charade : 

BULL'S-EYE. 
FiBST Syllable— Bulls. 

CHARACTERS. 

Terenck O'Connor. A hrolh of a boy. 

Mr. Blarney. A fine ould Irish gentleman. 

NoRAH. Bis only Daughter. 

Costumes.— Tere/ice may wear a shabby tail-coat, knee breeches (or rolled- 

up trousm-s), a high stand-up collar (cut out of paper), and a very battered 

hat. Old Blarney should be attired iu a similar costume ; his hair must 

be whitened by Time or the flour-dredger. Norah must dress in a very 

simple style. 

Enter Terence. 

Terence. Och ! it's a sin and a shame to see a man cut ofif in his prime, 
and made miserable for the rest of his life by a pair of elegant black eyes. 
Though it's my own tongue that's to blame entirely, for if I'd kept it still I 
mio-ht have gone on talking to her till the present moment. I was in too 
great a hurry to pop the delicate question ; for though we had known each 
other ever since we were babies in arms, it wasn't decent for me to strike 
up a match at our very first meeting. So when I said to her, "Norah, dar- 
lint I mane to talk to Father Maguire to-morrow," she got into such a tow- 
ering passion that I was glad to get out of her sight. Since then I've never 
clapped eyes on her, though it's many a time I've peeped through the key- 
hole, and seen her looking so disconsolate that I've felt terribly inclined to 
make it up with her. I know she's sorry she drove me away from her 
side at the very moment I was kneeling at her feet, and offering my heart 
and hand, to say nothing of the pig and the field of praties. She must be 
the most miserable ci'eature in the world ; but what's her misery compared 
to mine ? I Ciin't even sleep a wink at night for dreaming of her ; and 
though I've banished her from my thouglits entirely, I can think of nothing 
else. Bedad ! here cornea her ould father. I thought the family had gone 
to bed. 

E7itei- Blarney. 

Blarney. I'm sure 1 heard somebody. Who can it be at this time o' 
night ? 

lerence. Good evening. Mister Blarney. 

Blarney. Sure then and I did bear somebody. 

Terence. Your stupid ould ears have deceived you, Mister Blarney. 
There hasn't been a poul near the place, barring the pig. 

Blarney. That's as fine a bull as I've heard for a long time. Sure, 
haven't you yourself been lurking about the premises. 

Terence. Bedad ! I clean forgot that. Maybe it was me that disturbed 
you? 

Blarney. Maybe it was ; and if it's not troubling you too much, Mister 
O'Connor, might I be so bould as to ask what brings you here so late ? 



238 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

Terence. Your daughter's to blame eutirely. She's refused to marry 
me ; and as I've made a vow never to speak another word to her, I thought 
I'd just come and eay "farewell" to her before I started by the train for 
Ameriky. 

Blarney. Ameriky I Why, the boy's mad ! Norah, the darlint, will 
break her little heart. 

Terence. Never fear that. If she'd a heart at all she'd never have been 
hard-hearted enough to have broken mine. 

Blarney. I'll, call her out at once. I .wouldn't have her lose your eie- 
gant pig and your beautiful crop of praties for the world. 

Terence. That's foinly said, Mr. Blarney. But depend upon it, the girl 
.woa't listen to you. 

Blarney. You're mistaken, entirely. If she was aq deaf as a post she'd 
listen to her poor ould father. (CWKny.) 'Here, Norah ! Norah machree, 
come here this "minute. 

Terence. Stop a bit. I'll turn my back upon her, and listen to what she 
says. It's getting dark, and she won't know who I am. 

Blarney. Oh, you're a clever boy. 

Enter NoEAH. 

Noi-ali. Was it calling me you were, father deal-? If it's supper you're 
wanting, it won't be ready for leu minutes^ at least. 
• Blarney. Bother the supper. I've got bad news for you, my jewel. 

JVo?-a/i. Good g;-acious ! Has anything happened lo the pig? 

Blarney. No ; saints be praised, the pig is all right ! But poor Terence 
O'Connor is going to Ameriky. 

Norah. Oh, don't say so, if you love me. (Crying.) What shall I do 
without the dear boy ? And it's I that's driven him away. Oh, dear ! oh, 
dear ! {Puts aiiron lo her eyes, loalks across, and runs against Terence.) 
Holy Mother ! vvho's that? Why, I declare it's Terence himself. Terence, 
darlint, you won't be leaving yoTir own Norah ? 

Terence. It isn't me, machree ; it's a gentleman from Dublin. ' 

[B-LxnyEY hursts iijld a violent Jit of laiigJder. 

Norah. [Aside.) It's Terence himself. There's not nnother boy in Lim- 
erick that could make such a beautiful bull as that. I'll tease him a little. 
{Aloud to Terence.) It you please. Mister Gentleman from Dublin, was it 
you that brought the message; from Terence ? 

Terence. It was, miss. 

Norah. And will you be seiing the poor boy again ? 

Terence. Yes, I intend calling upon him before he takes Ids departure. 

Norah. Then tell him, sir, that the young woman he's running away 
from forgives him, although he did steal her poor father's pig. 

[Blarney tries to stifle his laughter. 

Terence. {Turning round.) That's not true ! Mister Blarney,. I appeal to 
you. Did I ever carry off one of your family ? 

Blarney. You never did, sir. Saints forbid that I should suspect a gen- 
tleman from Dublin! It was the boy Terence that stole the helpless little 
animal. 

Terence. I can't stand this any longer. Norah ! Mister Blarney ! Do you 

want to drive me out of mv senses ? Are you playins; the tbn] with me, or 

did I really steal a pig unbeknown to myself? It's -Terence O'Connor that 

asks. (Blarney and Norah laugh.) Oh ! pl'ase don't laugh. 

Norah. Will you promise, then^ never to get angry with your own Norah? 

Ter.ence. Yes, darlint. 



• HOME AMUSEMENTS. 239 

Norah And that you'll never think of leaving OuUl Ireland again ? 

Ttrence. I'll promise anything thai'a reasonable, if you'U only promiae 
to make onld Mister Blarney my mother-in-law. . , . . 

Blarney. Terence, you're a broth of a boy, and I don't mind giving my 
consent to your marriage, providing Norah's i.greeable. 

Terence. Say the word, honey, and call me back Irom Ameriky. 

Norah. Get away with you, do. 

Te>-ence. Where to, darlint ? , . 

Norah. To Father Maguire s, if you please. ( They embrace.) 

Blarnev The boy's bulls will make his fortune yet. Come to supper, 

my darlint! " ^' ■ t^"^^""^' 

Second Syllable.— Eye._ 
chakactkks. 
Mk. Testy. An irascible old gmtleman. 
Mr. Eapid. a fast young gentleman. 
' Mrs. Testy. A sympathetic old lady. 

Dora. A charoning young lady. ' ' , j 

Costumes.— As the above characters are .supposed to be gentlemen and 
ladies of the present period, there will be no difficulty in finding suit- 
able dresses. Rapid ought to "be attired in a smart mornmg suit. 
Should a juvenile performer take the part of Mr. Testy he will require a 
very high white cravat and a pair off spectacles, to make himself ap- 
pear sufficiently venerable. 

Enter Eapid vnth bandage over rigid eye. 
Rapid. (Talking very fast.) Treat, this! Fancy getting a black eye to- 
day, just as I am about to make the acquaintance of my beloved gover- 
• nor's old friend Testy and his niece, the lovely and accomplished Dora. 
How very provoking! Never had such a thing before, though I'm 
turned two-and-twentv. Let me see- 22 by 365 gives something over 
8000. I've actually existed for 8000 days and never experieneed tUl this 
morning the delights of a black eye. Now, I don't object to black eyes 
as a rule, but I do object to having one to-day. It's some consola- 
tion that I got it while doing my duty as a. defender of the rights of 
property. Coming up Rt-geut street I see a charming young lady look- 
ing in bonnet-shop, while a repulsive young man is picking her pocket. 
I alarm the first and collar the second. The young lady faints and is 
carried into shop by elderly female. The young man shows fight, gives 
me a back-hander, which efl'ectively closes -cny- right eye andTvakes the 
lion within me. I struggle with pugnacious young man, and succeed in 
getting from him the puriie of sensitive young lady. The disappointed 
young man breaks away from me and rushes blindly into the arms of a 
vigilant policeman. I enter shop, throw, myself at the feet of conval- 
escent young lady, and restore to her the purse. Emotional elderly female 
weeps, embraces me, and thanks me in the name of her niece, whose looks 
express intense gratitude. I rush out of shop, call a hansom, drive to the 
nearest butcher, purchase half a pound of beef-steak, and clap it on eye 
damaged by dishonest but muscular young man. I then drive home, wash, 
dress, and remove beef-steak. I turn out again, jump into another hansom, 
and drive here to meet, according to appointment, the lovely and accom- 
plished female whom my governor wants me to marry. He and old Testy 
have arranged everything ; and if Dora likes me, and I like her, there will 
be nothing to prevent us entering into the blessed state of matrimony next 
week— nothing but this horrible black eye ! I'm half afraid it will upset the 



240 IWME AMUSEMENTS. 

pretty little scbeme which has been concocted by the old gentleman. How 
can I hope to make a favorable impression on a simple-minded girl with 
this! {liemnves bandage and shows black eye.) I wonder how it's getting 
on? I wish there was a lookiug-glasa in the room. I must try to keep it 
covered, as I don't want to be taken for a prize-fighter. 
Elder Mks. Testy. 
Mrs. T. How do you do, Mr. Eapid ? I have long looked forward to this 
meeting. 

Rapid. {Covering his black eye with pocket handkerchief.) My dear 
madam, I am delighted to make your acquaintance. 

[Places his left hand over eye and gives her his right. 
Mrs. T. I saw your papa last-week, and learnt from him that you were 
disposed to regard my niece with a favorable eye. {Aside.) I wonder why 
he keeps up his handkerchief. 

Rapid. Oh, yes ! {Aside.) I should be sorry to let her see my unfavor- 
able eye. 

Mrs. T. {Aside.) I declare he's weeping. His wicked father wishes him 
to contract a marriage that is repugnant to him. {Aloud.) Young man, look 
me in the face. You love another ! 

Rapid. You are quite mistaken, madam. My heart has never yet been 
wounded by the arrows of Master Cupid. {Aside.) What is the stupid old 
woman driving at ? 

Mrs. T. Do not attempt to deceive me, young man. One blighted being 
can feel for another. I, wlio was driven by a father's threats to accept the 
hand of a gentleman that I didn't care two pins for, can understand those 
bitter tears that you try in vain to clieck ! {Weepis.) 

Rapjid. Really, Mrs. Testy, I am at a loss to comprehend your meaning. 
My father never threatened me in his life. 

Mrs. T. You play your part well, young man. It is noble of you to at- 
tempt to screen your bad father ; but, as I said before, you cannot deceive 
me. I will leave you to complete your self-sacrifice. 
Rapid. You're very kind, I'm sure. 

Mrs. T. { Gazing at him with an expression of pity.) Poor young man I 
Allow me to embrace you. [Rushes into his arms, then, bursts into a fit of 

ci'ying, and Exit. 

Rapid. What a remarkable old person ! She seems to be somewhat mad. 

I hope Dora doesn't take after her. I wonder where I can have met her 

before ; her face seems quite familiar to me. Oh, for another slice of beef ! 

How this troublesome eye of mine smarts. 

Enter Me. Testy on Eapid's left. 
I wonder whether I could find the cook. 

Testy. {In a loud voice.) Good morning, Master Reginald ! 
Rapid. {Starting.) Good gracious, how you made me jump ! 
Testy. My name is Testy ! {Offers hand to Rapid, ivho in taking it ex- 
poses his black eye for a moment.) 

Rapid. 1 am proud to meet so old a friend of my father. {Aside.) 1 hope 
he didn't catch sight of the eye. 

Testy. You've commenced the battle early. 
Rapid. Oh, yes— exactly so. {.Aside.) He must have seen it. 
Testy. Well, there's nothing like punctuality. Many a match has been 
spoiled for want of it. 

Rapid. {Aside.) He evidently takes me for a prize-fighter. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS 241 

Testtf. You've not Been Dora yet? Poor girlljier nerves received a 
dreadful shock this morning. 

Rapid. I'm sorry to hear that. (Aside.) I wonder how they'll bear the 
second shock— the appearance of my right optic ? 

Tesiy. I'd advise you to say nothing to her about the i-ing this morning. 

Rapid. The ring ! Oh, of course not. 1 should be sorry ever to allude 
to it in her presence. 

Tesiy. What, sir 1 Do you mean to tell me that you will never i&\\ to 
her about the ring. 

Rapid. Never, sir ! I could not degrade myself so. 

Tesiy. Degrade yourself by marrying my niece ! What do you mean, 
yon scoundrel? 

Rapid. Now don't'be cross. I never said a word about marriage, so it's 
evident we don't clearly understand each other. 

Testy. You said you would never- speak to her about the ring ! 

Rapid. You mean 'the wedding ring 1 (Laughing.) I declare I thought 
yo\i were talking about the prize-ring. 

le-ity. (Haughtily.) Sir, I have a horror of prize-fighting, and am not in 
the habit of talking about that ring with whicli you seem so familiar. 

Rapid. Forgive me, sir. I did not intend to hurt your feelings. 

Testy. Well, then, shake hands. By the way, what's the matter with 
your eye ? 

Rapid. Nothing worth speaking oft Merely a slight discoloration of the • 
surrounding parts. I tliink it advisable not to expose it. (Drops hand- 
kerchief. Testy seizes him by the slioulders.) 

Testy. You call that a" slight discoloration ! I should very much like to 
know, sir, what you consider a black eye. How dare you come here, sir, 
with such an eye as that? 

Rapid. Allow me to explain. This blackene'd optic is- an honorable 'dis- 
figurement. It was obtained in a good fight. 

Testy. I thought as much. You are a disgrace to your family. 

Rapid. Sir, I did not come here to be insulted. 

Testy. No, sir ; you came here to insult us. 

Rapid. Do you take me for a prize-fighter ? 

Testy. I do, sir ; you carry the badge of your calling upon your face". 

Rapid. I will leave this house at once. 

Testy. My servants shall kick you ont, sir. 

Enter Mrs. Testy and Doea. 

Mrs. T. Good gracious 1 What is all this noise about ? (iSi?es Bapid's 
black eye, and so'eams.) I declare, my wicked husband has actually given 
that blighted being a black eye ! 

Bcrra. Oh, aunt! Why that's the brave young gentleman who restored 
my purse to me. 

Mrs. T. So it is. How foolish of me to forget him ! Young man— dear 
Reginald, embrace me again ! (Rushes into his arms.) '- 

Testy. What's the meaning of this, I should like to know ? Perhaps you- 
can tell me, Dora ? 

Dora. Oh, uncle dear ! That's the gentleman who fought that horrible 
man in Regent Street this morning, and got back all my money. (Aside^ 
What a dear young man he is 1 That black eye which he got in defending 
me quite becomes him. 

2'esly. Reginald, my boy, I have wronged you, My niece is yours, 
Take ber— be happy. (Weeps.) 



242 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

Mrs. T. Ah, me ! It's too late now to save the poor young man from 
his doom. ( Weeps.) 

Dora. Oh, Mr. Rapid, forgive my uncle ; he is always in such a hurry 1 
You can't know whether you like me yet ! 

Testy. Nousense ! Of course he likes you. Don't be self-willed. 

Boia. I'm sure I shall faint. 

Rapid. Faint, darling, by all means. This arm that was raised in your 
defence a few hours ago shall support you now. [Exeunt. 

The Whole Wokd.— Bull's Eye. 
characteks. 

Smith, Beown, Jones, and Robinson, Effective Members of the Puddle- 
dock Volunteer Rifle Corps. 
Sergeant Bang, Brill luslruclor. Tomkins, a Recruit. 
Costumes. — The uniform of the Puddledock Corps may be got ready in a 

very short space of time. Any desciiption of coat or jacket may be worn. 

The belts and gaiters are to formed of brown paper, and cocked hats of 

the same material may be substituted for caps. Tomkins will not wear 

the uniform of the corps. 

Enter Sergeant Bang, Smith, Brown, Jones, and Robinson, 
marching in single file. 

Bang. Halt ! To the right face. Stand at ease ! ( Volunteers go through 
the motions indicated by word^ of command.) Atttution ! Privates Sniith, 
Brown, Jones, and Robinson, you are to proceed at once to the practice- 
ground to shoot off the tie made by you for the Puddledock Challenge Cup. 
You will fire one shot each at three hundred yards. 

Suiilh. The marker hasn't come yet, sergeant. I've sent Tomkins to look 
for him. 

Rang. Oh ! then you'd better wait here till he comes. Stand at ease- 
stand easy a moment. [Exit. 

Brown. I say. Smith, if you hadn't made me laugh I should have won 
the prize last night. 

Smith. My dear boy, I didn't make you laugh ; it was Jones. 

Jones. I merely called your attention to little Dobsoii's elegant position 
wbile firing at the long range from the knee. It was much better that you 
should lose the match than miss the chance of seeing Dobson in the regu- 
lation position. 

Broion. Poor little chap, he looked for all the world like one of those 
fat Cliinese idols. 

Smith. I thought he'd never get up again. 

Brown. I shall wiu to day, I'm confident. 

Smith. I'm not at all sure of that ; something tells me that 1 shall come 
off the conqueror. 

Jones. Now, don't be too fast. I tell you beforehand I shall make a 
bull's-eve with my shot. 

Robinson. 1 wish I was as certain of success as you all seem to be, 
{All laugh.) 

Smiih. Poor fellow— did he want the Challenge Cup ! 

Broion. Let me give you a bit of advice, Robinson. Sljut your eyes and 
press the trigger at the same time, and you'll perhaps have just such good 
luck as you had last night. If you aim at the bull's-eye you are sure to 
lose. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 243 

Robinson. I mean to try ray best for the prize, in spite of your chaff. 

Jones. Fancy Robinson the champion shot of Puddledock. Wouldn't 
he give himself airs I 

Robinson. Not I ! I shouldn't give myself half so many airs as some 
people I could mention do nnw. 

Enter Tomkins and Seugeant Bang. 

Tomkins. The marker's come! And iilmost everybody belonging to 
Puddledock waiting to see the sport. Oh, don't I wiah I was an effective 1 

Bang. Squad : Attention !— Right about face !— March ! 

lExtvnt Smith, Brown, Jones, and Robinson. 

Now, Mr. Tomkins, let me put you through your faciugs. Attention ! 
Keep your head up, sir ; shoulders square to the front ; knees perfectly 
straight. 

Tomkins. Can't I go and see the shooting ? 

Bang. No talking, sir. Now, air, attend to me. On the word "Face" 
place the hollow of the right foot smartly against the left heel, keeping the 
shoulders square to the front. On the word "Two" raise the toes, and 
turn a quarter circle to the right on botli heels, which must be placed to- 
gether. To the right. {Tomkins draws back foot.) As youwei-e! Wait 
till the word " face " is given. To the right face ! (Tomkins draus back 
left foot.) As you were I The left heel must never quit the ground. Pay 
attention, sir ! To the right face! (Tomkins executes the order correctly.) 
Two ! (Tomkins tries to turn round to the left, and. tum,bles down.) As you 
were ! Don't you know your right from your left ? 

Tomkins. Oh, yes ! I know, but I forget. 

Bang. Must try to remember, sir. Here come the competitors ! I won- 
der who's the winner ? 

Enter Smith, Brown, Jones, and Robinson. 

Tomkins. What news, Brown ? 

Brown. Bad news. I'll read you the score. (Beads paper.) "Robin- 
son, three ; Jones, one ; Smith, none ; Brown none." 

Tomkins. What, is old Robinson first ? 

Smith. Yes, by accident. 

Brown. Jones made me laugh again. 

Jones. Serve you right, for nudging my elbow. 

Robinson. I don't care for your chaff now. I've got the cup, and mean 
to keep it ! {Bances about.) 

Bang. Private Robinson, you ai-e an honor to the corps ; shake hands. 

Tomkins. Shake hands with me, too ; there's a good fellow. Though 
I'm only a recruit, 1 can respect the man who makes three points with one 
shot. 

Bang. Squad, fell in ! Attention I Right face ! Quick march ! 

[All march out, Tomkins not in step. 



Shado^Ar Pantomimes. 

This is a form of dramatic performance which is best suited to rather 
young players, but, properly managed, it may not only be made great fim 
to the performers, but a fertile source of amusement to the spectators. It 
is a further development of the principle of "Shadow Buff," but worked 
up to a far higher degree of completeness, being in this instance not a 
mere game, but the performance of a regular drama. 

The " screen " should be tightly stretched on a wooden frame, and 



2M HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

should consist of the kind of muslin used for transparencies, which may b« 
had very wide without a seam. For lack of this a fine sheet will make a 
very fair substitute ; but if this latter be used it should be welted, in order 
to render it more transparent. In any case care should be taken to secure 
a closely woven material, as any rays of light shining between the threads 
would have a very bad effect. All lights should be put out on the specta- 
tors' side of the screen, and the opposite side should be lighted by one lamp 
only. This should be a low, flat lamp, fitted with a duplex burner of toler- 
ably large size, and burning the very best kerosene oil. This lamp should 
be placed in a box or case purposely made to receive it, and which should 
be closed on every side save that looking towards the sheet, and should be 
only so high as just to admit the lamp, and to allow of some sort of guard 
over the chimney, to prevent the top of the box being scorched by the in- 
tense heat. The box should be substantial enough to prevent its being 
readily kicked over, and, if practicable, screwed down to the floor. The 
inside should be lined with bright tin, or better stiU, a concave reflector 
should be fixed at the back of the box, just behind the light. Gas may be 
used, if preferred, but it must be remembered that to render the shadows 
sharp and well defined, all the light must proceed from a single burner ; 
indeed, so essential is it that all the rays should originate in one single 
point, that where a flat-flame burner is used, it is lound necessary to turn 
it edgeways to the screen. If such a box as above described is not avail- 
able, a four-legged wooden stool may be used as a substitute, a tin or iron 
plate being fixed beneath to prevent the charring of the wood. Some per- 
formers use an unguarded light, with a stool placed behind it, for the per- 
formers to step up and down from ; but there is far too much risk about 
this plan, as the accidental kicking over of the lamp might readily turn the 
pantomime into a very serious tragedy. The plan we have recommended, 
though it involves a little more trouble, will be found in every way more 
satisfactory. 

The position of the light aboVe described will be referred to as the 
" first," or ordinary position, and in default of special mention to the con- 
trary, it will be assumed that the lamp is thus placed. A coujole of feet or 
so behind the box in question there should be a stool or table about two 
feet high, to which the lamp may be transferred at pleasure. This will be 
referred to as the " second " position. 

To produce Clear and sharply defined shadows on the sci'een, the objects - 
to be reflected, whether animate or inanimate, should be as close to it as 
possible. Living actors should always be seen in profile, and to insure this, 
will require diligent rehearsal under the guidance of a careful stage manager, 
for the actor cannot himself see whether his reflection is as it should be. 
If he turns ever so little to try to catch sight of his features, the profile is 
a profile no longer. For like reasons, the actors must avoid standing one 
in front of another, or their shadows will instantly become confused. If the 
action requires that two actors should pass eich other, they should do so 
as rapidly as possible, and if they are required to turn round, they must 
do so with an instantaneous " right about face," bringing the features again 
into profile from the opposite side. Furniture, in like manner, will de- 
mand special treatment. An ordinary diniug-table, when reflected against 
the screen, would look something like a carpenter's bench, or an old- 
fashioned square piano, the width of the top being transformed, in shadow, 
into apparent depth. Where it is not required that a table or chair should, 
jn stage parlance, be "practicable," i. e., capable of being used as a table 



mkD AMXISEMENTS. 245 

ot chair, its representation may be cut out of pasteboard, and pinned or 
otherwise fastened to tbe screen. But wbere a table is required to place 
articles upon (as for a stage banquet, or the like), tbe best plan is to make, 
or get made by a- carpenter, a table of very light deal. In length it will be 
of the actual length of which it is intended to appear ; but in width it 
should not be more than six or eight inches. Of course the sliehtest and 
roughest workmanship will suflSce. Other articles of furniture may be 
constructed on the same principle. 

Where scenery is required, it may be cut out of stifif white or brown 
paper (according to the degree of opacity required), and pinned to the 
screen. 

The point that most puzzles the uninitiated with reference to a shadow 




SHADOW PANTOMIME — FIG. 1. 



pantomime is the extraordinary manner in which the characters make their 
entrances and exits. Instead of comiug on at the side, after the ordinary 
fashion (though this is sometimes none, byway of variety), they generally 
enter by dropping down, apparently from the ceiling, and exeunt by flying up 
there again in a most weird and uncanny manner {see Fig. 1). This curious 
effect is produced by jumping over the light, and the reader will now see 
the object of the substantial box or case we have described. The per- 
former can jump on or off the top of a box so arranged with perfect safety ; 
but where he has to jump over a naked light on to a box behind it, there is 
a constant element of danger. A referenci^ to Fig. 2 will show more - 
clearly how this curious effect of vanishing into space is produced. 

The liglit only throws a shadow on the screen within the limits of ima- 
ginary straight lines drawn from the light to the extreme corners of the 
screen. So long as any objects remains within these limits it is visible on 



^46 



HOME AMUS^MJ^NTS. 



the screeu, but the momoiit it paasus oiitsiilc tbera it is no longer between 
the light and the screen, and therefore no longer throws a shadow. 

Necessary articles of furniture, or the like, are introduced or got rid of 
OTer the light in like manner; tiie stage manager holding them, when 
wanted, just within arm's roach, but outside the line of the shadow. The 
effect of a chair or table tio.itiug gently down from above to the hand of 
the performer is most absurd. As outline is the only consideration, not 
only the manufacture of stage properties, but the make-up of the perform- 
ers is an extremely easy process. Pasteboard is the universal material. 
From swords and axes to beer-jugs and coal-scuttles, a few sheets of paste- 
board will furnish all that is required. A hump on the back, or a horse's 
head, may be manufactured in like manner. A false nose or chin is equally 




SHADOW PANTOMIME — FIG. 2. 



within its range. All ihat you have to do is to cut out the desired feature 
(say a nose) ni duplicate. Glue together the portions forming the project- 
ing part of the nose, and the unglued portions will form a convenient clip 
to embrace the natural organ. To secure the pasteboard feature in posi- 
tion, you may either use a piece of diachylon plaster, or a thread passing 
round the head and tied bebiud. Fluids, as, for instance, beer poured 
from a jug, are represented by sawdust or sand, a paper-bagful of which, 
stuck just inside the waistcoat, will enable a wounded combatant to bleed 
in the most copious and affecting manner. 

A curious effect may be produced by holding objects cut out in paste- 
board first at right angles to the screen, and then gradually shifting them 
round till they are parallel with it. In the former position the article 
throws merely an upright streak of shadow on the screen, thence gradually 
developing to its full form and dimensions. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 247 

By way of illustration we append the Shadow Pantomime of 
THE FEEJEE ISLANDERS AT HOME.* 

CHAKACTERS. 

Kamehaha, King of the Cannibal Islands. 

OcuEii PoKEE, Sou of Kamehaha. 

An Infant Feejee. 

Rev. Mb. Sleek, a Missionary, short, plump, and juicy. 
costumes. 

Kamehaha. In tights, with shwc skirt rfaching just above the knee. 
Woolly head, and three feathers stuck upright on hack of head. Projecting 
nose, loith ring hanging from it. Wcolly beard on chin. 

OcHEE PoKEii. Also iu tights and short skii-t ; nose arid ring having a 
strong family likeness to thoi^e of Kamehaha. No jeathers on his head. 

Sleek. Long frock-coat and pantaloons. Broad-brimmed ha/. Exagge- 
rated clerical " bands." Closely-fUting scalp covering his nalural hair, and a 
long-haired wig over the scalp. 

Infant Fee-tee. In tights altogether, aiid tight-fitting scalp. 

The preparation of the costumes will involve but little trouble. The 
tights may consist of ordinary merino under-shirts, drawers, and stockings. 
A horsehair wig, such as is used by negro minstrels, may be worn, if pro- 
curable. For lack of this, a wig may be made of cotton-wool sewed on to 
a tight-fitting calico skull-cap. If possible, however, a " trick wig " should 
be obtained for Kamehaha, which allows of the hair on the top of the head 
being pulled upright by means of a string. Sleek's collar and bands may 
be made of stout paper. 

A rag-figure resembling Sleek should be prepared ; the head, arms, 
and legs being sewn on iu such a manner that they will hold together, but 
allow of being easily separated. 

Properties: — Umbrella; Book; Bow and Arrow (of cane); Tom,ahawk; 
Butcher' s-knij'e; Egg; Chicken; another Chicken, loith an arrow stuck 
through it. (These latter may be of cardboard.) 

SCENE. 

L. The entrance to a hut. k. A large gipsy kettle hanging between poles in 
the usual way. 

The hut is made of thin transparent paper, and should only take up just 
80 much of the width of the curtain as is necessary to show the entrance; 
this latter should have a double thickness of the paper, so as to be nearly 
or quite opaque, thus giving the effect of shade. 

The pot or kettle should be made of pasteboard, with a wire handle, 
and suspended by a stout cord from two slips of wood which serve for 
poles. These are fastened at top, and secured against the frame of the cur- 
tain in such a position that the kettle hangs on the stove with its side 
against the frame. The kettle should be about two feet high, and eighteen 
inches wide, and beneath it should be imitalion flames made of red tissue 
paper (see Fig. 3). Immediately over the kettle screw a small eyelet into 
the frame which keeps the sheet extended, and fix a similar eyelet in the 
frame just over the center of the scene. Pass a piece of fine sewing thread 

By permission from Dick's Parlor Exhibitions, containing; a lars:e and varied col- 
lection of Tableaux Vivanta, Livine; Portraits, Living Statuary, Punch and Judy. Illus- 
trated Ballads, Charades, Parlor Pantomimes, Literary Eni.emas, Shadow Pantomimes, 
etc., etc. Price, in illuminated paper covers, 30 cents. Published and for sale by Dick 
& Fitzgerald, 18 Ann Street, New York. 



248 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 



through each ; at one end of each thread fasten a hooked pin, and secure 
the other ends on separate nails on the side of the frame. On the string at 
tho side, hook a chicken, and on that in the middle, the other chicken with 
tbfl arrow in it ; haul the latter up out of sight over the curtain, and let the 
former hang down behind the kettle. In front of the fire lay a few sticks 
ott the ground. 

Begin with the light in the " first position." 
Enter Kamehaha with bow and arrow and tomahawk, over light. 

Kamehaha looks right and left, dips his finger in the pot, tastes it, 




SHADOW PANTOMIME 



shakes his head ; goes into hut, comes out again, stands at the entrance ; 

points at kettle, then at his open mouth ; shakes his head ; claps his hands. 

(Enter Ochee Fokee over light.) 

Threatens Ochee Pokee, points at kettle, squats down near hut, and 
goes to sleep. 

Ochee Pokee put his finger to his nose, cuts a caper, and picking up 
sticks throws them into the fire. Riins into hut,* returns with bellows, 
blows fire. Kettle boils. {A mouthful of cigr.r-smoke puffed frcmi the side, 
as if issuing from the kettle, produces tlie appearance of steam,.) Cuts another 
caper, runs into hut ap;ain, and fetches an egg, which he drops into the 
kettle, find then squats down in front of his father and nods, as if asleep. 

KamehaJia wakes, sees Ochee Pokee asleep, and hits him on the head 
with his bow to wake him. 

Ochee Pokee y^akea up with a starf, rubs his eyes and turns to Kame- 
haha, who points to kettle. He then goes to kettle to get the egg, looks 
into kettle, then starts back in" amazement. Beckons his father, who looks 

* The effect of running into the hut is proclucerl by s\mply running off at side. . 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 249 

over his shoulder iu the pot. {The chicken behind the kettle is now hauled 
up by jerks.) At each movement of the chicken both start with surprise. 
The chicken disappears over the curtain ; both point to the place. {A strip 
of cardboard loith bad egg cut out in it may be held for a moment from the 
side of the curtain over the kettle. The chicken is now drawn down again by 
means of a stick with a hook at the end, the operation being perfo7ined so as 
to produce no shadow on the curtain. 

Kamehaha points to the words bad egg and hits Ochee Pokeo on the 
head. 

Ochee Pokee falls down, jumps up again, runs into hut and brings out 
another egg. 

Kamehaha snatches the egg, smells it, shakes it, nods his head in 
approval, drops it in the kettle, and turns around to Ochee Pokee, shaking 
his fist. {I'he chicken is meamchile hauled up near to the top of the curtain, 
in fuM sight of the spectators, but unobserved by the players.) Kamehaha 
turns again and looks into kettle, when the chicken is let down, so as to 
appear as if standing on his head. 

Ochee Pokee claps his hands and points at chicken. 

Kamehaha looks up, and sees the chicken {which is quickly drawn up 
out of sight) ; runs into hut for bow and arrow; appears again at entrance 
and shoots up {so that the arrow toiE fall beyond the curtain. The chicken 
in the center is now let down, fluttering, as if wounded.) 

Both fall down afraid. 

Ochee Pokee makes a grab at it, but it is haiiled quickly up again. 

Both shake fists at one another and stamp their feet. 

Kamehaha kicks Ochee Pokee over light and exit into hut. 

Ochee Pokee comes out of hut, pushing infant Feejee before him up to 
the kettle. 

Infant turns round, with hands together, and begs to be spared. 

Ochee Pokee boxes his ears, and carefully puts him iu the kettle {i. e., 
down behind it), and exit l. 

Kamehaha, putting out his head from hut, watches these proceedings 
with satisfaction, withdrawing his head when Ochee P.ikee leaves. 

(Enter Sleek, b., with umbrella vmder arm, and book in left hand, as 
if reading. See Fig. 3.) 

Sleek, making gestures with right hand, as if preaching, advances slowly ; 
starts, looks around him, dips finger in kettle, withdrawing it quickly, as if 
scalded ; blows on his finger, and examines it closely. He again looks in 
kettle, and discovers infant Feejee ; lays down book and umbrella ; holds 
up hands in hoi-ror ; lifts infant out and places him carefully on the ground. 

Infant runs off, k. 

Kamehaha puts his head out of hut and draws it in again. 

Ochee Pokee conies out of hut on all-fours, and goes towards Sleek. 

Sleek turns suddenly, sees the hiit, and steps towards it, but stumbles 
over Ochee Pokee ; gets up slowly, rubbing himself; tries to grasp Ochee 
Pokee, who jumps over light. 

Kamehaha appears at door of hut, with bow and arrow. {He m,ust shoot 
so as to hit the book, which Sleek It olds conveniently for the purpose ) Holds 
up hands in amazement at his shot being warded off; kneels down and 
kisses SLeek's feet in token of submission. 

Ochee Pokee enters, r., behind Sleek, looks in kettle, finds infant gone, 
turns round, sees Sleekj creeps up to him, runs knife ronnd his head. and 
scalps him(i. e., lifts his wig off), and throws his' scalp to Kamehaha. 



250 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

Sleek puts hia hands to )us head and stamps with pain. 

Kamelwha runs into hut, returus with tomahawk, hits Sleek on head, 
knocking him down. {General scuffle on top of Sleek, affording oppoiiunity 
for Sleek to roll away hack undtr light, and the dumviy figure to he rolled into 
his place; during this the light must he raised itp gradually ahout two feet, 
and then transferred to the '" second position." 

Both get up slowly, one at each end of the figure. 

Kamehaha lifts one leg of figure and lets it drop. 

Ocltee Pok'-e lifts one of the arms and drops it again ; lifts the figure to a 
standing position {holding it hy the middle of the hack idtli one hand). 

Kamehaha examines arm, leg, etc., rubs hia stomach, then rubs his 
hands with satisfaction and goes info hut. 

Ochee Pokee lets the figure slope backward, as if heavy, and pushes it 
upright again, staggering. Same business repeated. 

Kamehaha comes out of hut with butcher's knife, seizes an arm, and 
cuts it off. Takes hold of the figure and hands the arm to Ochee Pokee. 

Ochee Pokee takes it to the kettle, drops it in, cuts a caper, and looks in 
after it. {The arm stretches up out of the kettle, hits Ochee Pokee on the 
head, and falls hack in'o the kellle. TIds is done hy the manager, frofiv, the 
side, using his oion arm and fis'.) He ruba his head, turns round, and 
takes the figure again from Kamehaha. 

Kamehaha cuts the other arm off, and holds the figure as before. 

Ochee Pokee takes the arm to the kettle, again receiving a blow on the 
head, which Knocks him backward, upsetting the figure and Kamehaha ; 
general fight again, ending by their resuming their former positions. 

The same business is repeated with the legs, which are in turn cut o£f 
and transferred to the kettle ; last of all the head. 

Kamehaha examines the body, and sits down on it. 

Bpth rest a moment, watching the pot, which begins to steam. 

Kamehaha gets up, goes to the pot, pulls out a leg, tries it with his 
teeth, struggling violently to bite a piece. No go ; throws it back in pot. 
( Tlie hody has meaniohile been tfithdrawn hy means of a hooked stick.) Goes 
back to seat himself again, and tumbles over backward ; looks around for 
the body ; it is gone ; takes hold of Ocliee Pukee, points to the spot where 
the body was lying, and boxes his ears. Points to kettle, shoves Ochee 
Pokee towards it. 

Ochee Pokee looks into the kettle, lifts an arm half out, which knocks 
him down. 

Kamehaha picks him up, kicks him, goes to kettle, and is also knocked 
down by a leg ; sits up, rubs his eyes ; gets up and looks again in kettle, 
putj his hand in, but finds nothing. {The chicken is noio let down from the 
sitP on to his head, and, the manager crows) ; looks iip qnickly, sees chicken 
{which is drawn up icith a single jerk) ; rubs his eyes, looks up where the 
chicken disappeared ; looks again in kettle, and, finding nothing, gets in a 
passion ; turns round, stumbling over Ochee Pokee, gels up and faces 
Ochee Pokee ; points to his arms and then to the kettle, to his legs and 
head, and again to the kettle ; makes a motion, as much as to say, " They 
are all gone." Points again at kettle. 

Ochee Pokee looks at kettle also. {The head sticks out of the pot with a 
Ha ! ha ! This is, of course. Sleek himself, at the side.) 

Both start, and run into hut, returning cautiously on tiptoe. 

Light is replaced in " first position," while both are in hut. 



noME AMUSEMENTS. 251 

Sleek, dressed as before, with wig aud hat on, euters slowly, k., exactly 
as at first. 

Kame?iaha sees him first, and his hair stands on end with fear. 
Trembles excessively and jumps over light. 

Ochee Fokee then sees Sleek, and rulls over back into the hut. 

Sletk points at him and then at tlie book, which he holds up aloft as the 
triumph of civilization over barbarism. {A low chair or stool is handed him 
over the light. Puts the chair in center of curtain, mounts it, and gesticu- 
lates as if preaching, jnoving continually, to hide the effect of the change of 
position iu the light, which should be very gradually raised perpendicu- 
larly from its position to about five feet from tlie ground. When it reaches 
that height, he finally makes a bow, and steps down from the chair straight 
back under the light. {To tlie spectators he wiU appear to have sunk down 
into the ground.) 

CURTAIN. 



Tableaux Vivants.* 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

As in all projects worthy of exertion for the value of the end to be at- 
tained, a little discipline is necessary, so in the getting up of a set of tab- 
leaux there should be chosen a commander-in-chief, a manager, who shall 
arrange and group the pictures, decide upon all properties and acces- 
sories, and, in a word, be the umpire in all contested points, otherwise 
chaos ensues, the rehearsals resemble the chattering at Babel, and the 
evening's performance is certain to be marred in some unfortunate par- 
ticular. 

As a tableau is a picture, care should be taken to avoid the false lights, 
jaiTiiig colors, and unnatural positions. 

In these days, wben scented tableau lights of the most varied tints are 
supplied at a nominal rate, there is no excuse for perpetrating red moon- 
light or green sunset. 

Without the slightest danger or inconvenience of any kind, tableau lights 
may now be made use of in red, green, blue violet, white, pink, yellow and 
orange ; while a magnesium light afifords the most eff"ective glare to statu- 
ary, imparting the dead black shadows so peculiar to marble. 

A small sum purchases the secrets of the stage in the form of a Make- 
up Box, containing every conceivable complexion, from that of the dusky 
Turk to that of tha ethere:il angel or fairy. 

Care should be taken to raise the tableau as nearly as possible upon a 
level with the eye of the observer ; let the frame be square or oval ; see 
that the light falls from one point naturally ; have the colors harmoniously 
arranged, and the illusion will be irresistible. 

A curtain of deUc ite gauze stretched between the figures and the audi- 
ence is often effective. 

The music, which is an important adjunct of each and every tableau, 
should precede the rise of the curtain by a few moments, in order to pre- 
pare the minds of the audience for the picture which is to be presented. 

Subjoined will be found a collection of subjects for tableaux, from which 

* By permission from Gilbert's Book of Pantomimes, a large and attractive collec- 
tion of Acting Charades, Parlor Theatricals, and Taljleaux. Price 25 cents. Published 
and for sale by Hurst & Co., 122 Nassau Street, New York. 



252 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

several entertaiumeuts may be selected, and thus dispeuse with the Ber- 
vices of a manager and a costumer. 

The directions for arrangement, as Right, Left, and Center, are given as 
if viewed from the audicncu. 

SPUING. 

CHAKACTEltS AND COSTUMES. 

Girl. — Short skirt of pale blue; whi'e chemise; liille pink shawl crossed over 
the hreast; ichile apron; large straw hat, ornamented loifh floicers; hare- 
footed, and light hair. 

Boy. — Buff knee breeches; lohile shirt, open at neck, and rolled up to the 
elbotcs; bare legs and feel; no hat, and dark hair. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The picture represents two children returning from the fields. 

The two occupy the center of the stage, and face a little to the left. The 
boy, who is farthest up stage, holds the girl's right hand in his left, while 
with his right he shades his eyes as if looking anxiously toward home. By 
his side, though a little back, as if being led, stands the girl. Her right 
hand rests in that of the boy, while her left holds up her apron with its 
freight of tall grasses and flowers. Her eyes are cast downward, and her 
hat is pushed back, allowing her hair to fall about her face. 

Soft, pink light from left. Soft, pretty music. 

SUMMER. 

CHAEACTEKS AND COSTUMES. 

Maiden. — White mxislin dress, with pale blue ribbons; pink roses in the bosom 

and hair; no hat; light hair. 
LovEB. — Ordinary light summer suit ; slraio hat, and flowers in the coat; 

dark hair, 

THE TABLEAU. 

The figures occupy tlie center of the stage. The maiden stands with 
her face turned to the right, and cast down to conceal her blushes. 

The lover holds her right hand, and is bending forward as if endeavor- 
ing to catch a glimpse of her face, and therein read his fate. 

In the second scene the two stand fivcing each other full ; they hold each 
other's hands ; the maiden glances up half timidly, and the lover returns 
the glance with one of fond affection. 

Green light from left. Soft, romantic niusic. 

AUTUMN. 

CHARACTEKS AND COSTUMES. 

'Wife.— Bich and elegant home-dress, or the plain cnstume of a meane)- sta- 
tion in life, as may chancp. to please the taste; light hair. 

Husband.— i^t(7/ mUitnry snU; that of an officer, if the wife be richly-dressed; 
api'ivate, ifhei- costume be plain; dark hair. 

THE tableau. 
The moment here portraved is the l^st before the departure for the war. 
The husband stands erect, looking off right ; his right hand rests in the 

breast of his coat, and the left hangs by his side. 

Upon the right hand of her husband kneels the wife upon her right 

knee, buckling with both hands the sword-belt upon her husband's waist ; 

her head should be bent forward as if indicative of grief.' 

In the second scene the wife is upon her feet-; the' husbtod has turned 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 253 

and clasped her to his breast ; her hands rest upou hie neoki The faces 
should wear a sad, intense expression. 

Bed light from right. Soft, martial music. 

WINTEE. 

CHAEACTEKS AND COSTUMES. 

Gbandmothee. — The ordinary black dress of an elderly lady; white ynuslin 
fichu and cap, lohite hair; spectacles and black niiltens. 

Grandfather. — Usual old man's dress; lohite hair and beard; spectacles. 

Grandson. — Black velvet boy's dress; while stockings; low-cut shoes; white 
ruffle at neck. 

THE TABLEAU. 

Two great arm-chairs with old-fashioned high backs occupy the middle 
of the stage. 

In the I'ight-hand chair sits the grandfather, a newspaper lies upon his 
knees, and his Lands rest clasped upon it. Hiu spectacles are pushed up 
upon his forehead, and liis eyes are fixed upon distance, as though lost in 
deep thouglit. The grandmother sits in the left-hand cbair ; she is in the 
act of knitting a blue stocking, but her hands are at rest for a moment as 
she gazea down upon her grandson at her feet. The boy lies at his full 
length upon the floor before the feet of Lis grandparents, and faces the left. 
He lies face downward, and raises his Lead by supporting his chin upon 
both hands ; befoie bim a large picture-book lies open. 

White light from both sides. Soft, quaint music. 

THE REAPER AND THE FLOWERS. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Ahqeij.— Long white robe, with flowing sleeve^ displaying the arms; low neck; 

hair falling about the shouhlers; white u:ings, if possible. 
Mother. — Black dress and ivhite widow's cap. 
Ghildben. — Blonde and brunette, in long while night-dresses. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The tableau represents the evening prayer. The mother is seated on 
left of stage, and at her knees kneel the two children in prayer ; their 
hands rest upon her lap, and her face is bent forward over them. At the 
riglit, a little back, stands the angel, raised upon a cloud of white tarletan, 
with her hands outstretched toward the children. 

The second scene discovers the mother kneeling at left with her hands 
clasped toward the angel. The children kneel beside the angel, whose left 
Land one of them holds, while with the right she points upwards. Children 
follow the direction with their eyes. 

Strong, white Ught on the angel. Soft music. 

FAITH. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Mother. — In a rich dress of dark sUk, xmlh ruffles at neck and iewelry. 

Father. — Ordinary gentleman's dress. 

Doctor.— Ditto. 

Child. — Long white night-dress. 

the tableau. 

The picture represents the moment when the parents deliver the life of 
their child into the hands of the physician. 

The center of the stage is occupied by a small bed, upon which rests the 
obil*, very pale ; at the right sits the mother, with her eyes bent anxiously 



254 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

upon the doctor's face, watching the child. The doctor site beside the bed, 
holds the child's pulse witli his left hand, and his watch in his right. 

In the second scene ihe mother holda the child, the doctor stands in 
center in the act of dropjiiug something from a phial into a glass. The 
father steps forward as if about to touch the doctor in his anxiety. 

The foot of the bed is left; the head, riglit. Some furniture should 
dress the stage. Table behind bed, with lamp burning taintly. 

Pale yellow light from both sides. Pathetic music. 

WITH THE TIDE AND AGAINST THE TIDE. 

CHARACTEES AND COSTUMES. 

GiKL. — Pretty blue boating-dress, trimmed with xoldte; ichiie straio hat loiih 

blue ribbons; while sPk sunshade. 
'&lAy.— White flannel boating shirt trimmed with red; red silk scarf in sailor's 

knot; white straw hat with red ribbon; wldte pants. 

THE TABLEAU. 

^he scene represents a boat, which, if one cannot be obtained, may be 
easily improvised by shaping a dark shawl over two chairs laid upon their 
sides. 

In the picture With the Tide, the lovers are seated facing each other in 
the middle of the boat. The man rests on his oars, holds the girl's hands, 
and looks into her face. She has lier eyes cast down, and holds the sun- 
shade over them both. 

In Asraiust the Tide, the girl is turned about with her back towards her 
lover, and has cast her sunshade behind her so that he cannot see her. 
The man has drawn his hat over his eyes, and is in the act of pulling vigor- 
ously at the oars. The stern of the boat should rest on right of stage, the 
bow being left. 

Strong white light from left. Boating song. 

ZEKLE AND HULDY. 

CHAKACTEKS \ND COSTUMES. 

HuLDY. — Plain dress of brown stuff ; tight-fitting sleeves; kei'chief ove)- shoul- 
ders; ruffle at neck, and rid bow; ivhite apron; hair coiled up icith an old- 
fashioned high comb. 

Zekh!;. — SItabby dress-coat, ivith sleeves too tight a') id short; short pants and 
low-cut .sTioes; coUnr and cotton cravat; old silk hat, faded umbrella, and 
red handkerchief in hack pocket. 

THE TABLEAU. 

TIds is a countiy courtship. Huldy sits at right of a plain deal table, 
paring apples into a bowl in her lap. On the table are a lighted candle and 
several apples. At a window in the back Zekle is discovered, looking in. 
By her smile Huldy proves that she knows he is there, but does not notice 
him. 

Second Scene.— Zekle is discovered standing opposite Huldy, with his 
hat on and umbrella in hiind. Huldy does not raise her eyes. 

Third Scene.— Zekle is upon his knees with his arms round Huldy ; 
she has half risen, turns her face toward the audience, and threatens Iiim 
with her knife ; the bowl is ovei'turned, and the apples and parings are 
scattered about. 

Strong red light from left. Comic music. 

TWO BLIND BEGGARS. 

characters and CiiSTUMES. 

Two Beggabs. —Jfafce up like oldmen. Bagged clothes; old hats and Grvtcli.es 



nOME AMUSEMENTS. 255 

at side; card on each of their breasts with the word blind distinctly marked; 
tin cups in (heir hands. 
Lady.— i« handsome street dres^ icithpwse. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The beggars are seated side liy side iu center of stage, a little back ; 
their eyes are closed, their expression is piteous, and they stretch out tlieir 
hands with the tin cups toward the lady, who stands on right opening her 
purse. 

Tlie second scene discovers the beggars sitting opposite each other, 
their eyes open, their placards thrown over their backs, and they playing 
cards. The trick lies on the stage, and one of them is in the act of picking 
it up wi h a cunning smile on his face. The other man holds his cards and 
looks annoyed. 

Strong green light from left. Very sad music. 

OLD WOMAN IN THE SHOE. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Old Woman.— Wide-// iZ^ed lohite cap; small shawl over shoiddo's; calico 

dres^; spectacle.i. 
Children. — Boys awl girls, all of about one age, in evo'y variety of shabby 

juvenile costume. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The scene represents the well-known nursery ditty. 

The stage is occupied by a huge shoe, which may easily be constructed 
out of dark paper, or by covering a frame iu the shape of a shoe with black 
cambric. 

Old woman sits high in the heel with a boy across her lap ; she holds a 
switch raised over him. Four or five children are hansing out of the shoe 
ou all sides. One is climbing up the heel behind the old woman, another 
lies upon the outside of the toe, while three are grouped seated on the 
table under the middle of the shoe. 

The toe of shoe rests on left of stage ; the heel, right. 

Strong white light, left. Comic music. 

PAUL AND VIRGINIA. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

YiRGi^ik.— Girls luhiie frock; loio neck and short sleeves; the feet are hare, 

and the hair falls about the shouldei's; upon the head rests a chnplet of 

smaU flowo's. 
Paul.— TV/kVp ruffled shii-t with wide coUar, open at the neck; loose lohite pants 

rolled up to the knee; barefet^t and legs; the hair a little long and curly, 

and in disorder. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The picture represents Paul as a boy of ten years, c.irrying Virginia 
across a brook upon his back. 

A few large flat stones should be placed transversely across the stage, 
from right to left. Paul is discovered in center of stage, in the act of step- 
ping from one stone to another. Virginia's arms are about his neck ; her 
feet rest in his hands ; his face is thrown back over his right shoulder, so 
that he may see her eyes. She looks down upon him with a smile. 

In the next scene they are seated among some shi-ubbery, under the 
shade of a great leaf, the stem of which Paul holds in his right hand, being 
seated left, and Virginia catches the tip of leaf in her left hand. 

Strong green light from left. Romantic music. 



256 HOME -AMUSEMENTS. 

CAIN A^D ABEL. 

CHARACTEllS AND COSTUMES. 

Abel. — White cashm&'e Wome, fulled in about the neck, hound at the waist 
with a cord, and descending almost to the knees; arms bare; legs and feet 
. in Jiesh-iinied tights and leather sandals. ■ 
Cain.— /?i dark brown blouse; the renlainder of the di'ess the same as Abel's. 

THE TABLEAU. 

Tbe scene repieseuts the sacrifice. A white altar, raised upon two or 
three steps, occupies the back center of the stage ; on it a fii'e is burning. 

Abel stands to the right with his right hand raised in warning to Cain. 
Cain is in the act of stooping to pick up with his left hand a knife which' 
lies upon the steps of the altar ; he keeps his eyes upon Abel. 

The second scene discovers Abel h'ing face dovtnwards upon the steps 
ol the altar ; his head rests upon his right arm, while the left hangs lifeless 
by his side. Cain, now on the right, is about to fly, but turns his head 
toward the auilience to look back upon his work ; his hands are cast out 
towards the right as if in terror. 

Strong blue light from left. Hurried music. 

HOPE. 

CHAKACTEES AND COSTUMES. 

Woman. — Broum dress of common stuff, tacked up over a blue petticoat; lohile 
apron; smaU shawl tied over shoulders; low-cat shoes; Jiandkei-chief tied 
over the head. 

Childken. — Common dress for girl, loilh handkerchief over the head; little 
hoy in ordinary rough dress. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The scene represents the anxious moment for the fisherman's family just 
before the storm breaks. 

The mother occuj)ies the center of the stage and looks olf to left with a 
telescope at her eye. The girl stands close to her motlier and shades her 
eyes with her right hand. The little boy plays iu front of them with a toy 
horse. 

The second time the curtain is raised the mother is discovei-ed kneeling 
in the same place in prayer ; the girl kneels with her back to the audience ; 
the little boy looks up at them in surprise. 

Strong red light from left. Soft music of the boat-song order. 

CHARITY. 

OHAKACTER AND COSTUME. 

Beggab. — Made up to represent an old man; shabby gray coat, with bright- 
colored 7nuffler around the neck; old brown pants; old boots and cane; red 
night-cap, with tassel, on the head; pouch of old bagging at side, 

THE TABLEAU. 

Scene represents the beggar in the act of raising the knocker of an out- 
side door. The door must be in the center ; the beggar faces the left, and 
raises the knocker with his right hand ; the fore-fineer of his left hand is 
laid beside his nose, iiud he winks slyly at the audience. 

The next scene shows that the door has been opened and shut in his 
face. The beggar, in great rage, has turned to go off, right, but glances 
back at the door with his face dark with ancer • his mouth has dronoed 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. -Ibl 

open, the eye8 scowl, both hands ai-e clenched, and with the right one he 
menaces the door. 

Strong green light from left. Low music. 

MERRY CHRIST3IAS. 

CHAK.\CTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Giiii^.—Diess of some dark material in rags; hair in disorder; old shoes. 
Box.— Old suit, also in rags; general untidy appearance. 

Fairy. White tarletan dress trimmed with silver; sUvei- wand and crown of 

stai-s. 

THE TABLEAU. 

Tliis tableau presents the interior of a garret. An old bed, left; a broken 
table and chair, right ; some straw in corner and broom with baskets. A 
white stieet is stretched across the middle of the stage. 

The boy and girl are seated upon the flour iu the center, and the boy 
amuses the girl by throwing the shadow of a rabbit from his hands on to 
tlie sheet. A piece of a candle, stuck in a bottle, is so arranged as to cast 
the shadow. Boy is on his knees a little to tlie right ; the girl rests upon 
her left hand, and faces him ; both profiles are exposed. 

When the curtain rises the second time the boy and girl have fallen 
asleep on the floor and dream. The sheet is drawn aside and discloses the 
f liry raised upon a cloud, and bearing in her hands a basket filled witli toys, 
bon-bons, etc. 

Fairy occupies the center, and looks down with a smile upon the chil- 
dren. 

Pink light from both sides upon the fairy. Soft, pathetic music. 
SONG OF THE SHIRT. 

CHARACTER AND COSTUME. 

Woman.— OZd, tattered dress of some da?-fc matei'ial, open at neck, showing the 
bare throat. An old, shawl hangs upon the shoidders; hair caught up wUh 
cnnb, hut allowing the tress on the left to hang beside the face, lohich should 
be pain and very sad. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The picture presents the midnight hour, with the poverty-stricken woman 
still at work. A little to the right of center a plain wood table, upon which 
is a candle stuck in a bottle and several common pieces of crockery. To 
tlie left and in the corner a bed, with scanty covering ; here and tliere an 
old chair or a trunk. The woman sits to tlie left of the table, and about 
the center of the stase ; her work basket, with work in it, lies forgotten in 
lier lap, and she seems lost in a deep reverie. Her right hand supports her 
left arm, and upon her left hand rests her chin. Her face is turned full 
towards the auilience. 

The second picture presents the woman turned slightly toward the table, 
her head is bent over her work, and she is in the act of drawing the thread 
as she sews. 

Soft while light from right side. Low music of some melancholy air. 
SUNRISE. 

CHARACTER AND COSTUME. 

'^YTS.va.— Delicate white gauze robp, low neck, ."hort sleeves and caught up .<?o 
as to show one foot in white slipper; silver bell, and silver band catching 
back the flowing hair; no other ornament or decoration. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The scene should be decorated with evergreen trees so as to form a 



258 HOME AMVSi:MENTS. 

semi-circle, in the center of wbicL is a mound adorned with flowers and 
ferns as profusely as possible. For sunrise the nymph is standing upou the 
center of the mound, looking off ri^ht ; in her hand rests a cloud of pale 
blue gauze powdered with silver to represent mist. 

Strong pink light from right. Low music, 
NOON. 

The same nymph stands upon tlie mound lacing the audience ; the blue 
gauze is cast over her head and is folded witli her hands upon her breast. 

Strong white light from both sides. Music. 
SUNSET. 

The same nymph is lying upou the mound half raissd upon her left 
elbow, and faces the left. The blue gauze covers the lower part of her 
body. 

Yellow light from left. Music. 

MIDNIGHT. 

The same nymph lies extended upon the mound, her head slightly raised 
upon her right hand, while the left rests upon her breast. The blue gauze 
is cast over the entire figure. 

Blue light from left. Music. 

YES OR NO. 

CHARACTER \ND COSTUME. 

Young Lady. — Violet silk dress, fasldonably made, wUh gracefid train ; while 
lace fichu over the shoulders, and cmght at the breast ivith a bunch of vio- 
lets; hair crimped and gathered into a fall of curls at the hack. 

THE tableau. 
The tableau represents that all-important question as to how a certain 
letter shall be answered. 

On the right, a little back, a writing desk, with paper, pens, and ink in a 
conspicuous position ; chair beside it ; waste basket on the floor. The 
center of the picture is occupied by the figure of the young lady, who stands 
looking directly left, thus exposing her full profile to the audience. Her 
hands are clasped behind her, and in them is the opened letter, which must 
be distinctly seen. Her head is thrown back slightly, as though she were 
in deep thought. If an open window could be devised opposite the young 
lady the efi'ect of the picture would be heightened. 
Green light from left. Romantic music. 

COME TO DINNER. 

CHARACTER AND C 'STCME. 

Little Boy. — White shvi. open at neck, and fastened by a blue ciavat tied in 
a sailo7''s knot; brown corduroy j^anls ; striped hose and shoes; while straw 
hat on the back of the head. 

THE TABLEAU. 

Two green banks should be arranged to cross the stage about midway ; 
this may be easily accomplished by covering a row of boxes with green 
cambric, and laying bows of evergreens upon them. A rustic gate should 
be improvised to divide the banks exactly in the center. Evergreen shrub- 
bery at the back. 

The little boy sits upon top of the gate facing the left, with one leg on 
each side of it. His head is thrown back, and with both hands lie raises a 
large conch shell to his lipa. His cheeks should be distended as if in the 
act of blowing the shell lustily. 

Strong green light from left. Comic music. 



nOME AMUSEMENTS. 259 

YOU'RE NOT EXPECTED, SIR. 

CHAUACrEBS \ND COSTUMES. 

Young Lady. —Pretty summer costume in muslin; st)-aw hat, with hright nb- 

hons; small basket offiowers. 
Young M.x-s.—Ch'dinary light walking mil, with white straw hat. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The stage arraugement which serves iu the preceding tableau will be all 
that is necessary for the present picture. 

As the curtain rises the young girl is discovered leaning upon the gate, 
shading her eyes with her right hand and looking eagerly off to left ; her 
hat has fallen beside her upon the ground ; in her left hand she holds the 
basket of flowers. 

The second picture shows the young man creeping up beside the young 
lady, but on tlie oppositu side of the gate, and leaning over to try to take 
the basket from her hand ; she still shades her eyes with her hand as 
though unawai-e that he is there. 

In the third picture the young lady has turned away to the right, and 
droops her head with a smile ; the young man holds her right hand in both 
of his, and leans over the gite to catch a glimpse of her face. 

The basket of flowers is overturned lapon the ground in front of them. 

Strong green light from left. Romantic music. 

LEAR AND CORDELIA. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Lear. — Purple velcet robe trimmed with ennine, descending to the ankles, 
and bound at the waist loilh a jeiceled bell; loig of long lohiie hair, and 
beard. 

Cordelia.— Pt'ffc satin robe, richly jeweled: lo)ig wing sleeves; jeweled belt, 
and light crown, from which the hair falls about the shoultlet-s; light hair. 

BocToii.—Broicn velcet doubkt trimmed toitk black fur; black tights atid vel- 
vet shoes; long black hair. 

THE TABLEAU. 

King Lear is seated upon a huge easy chair, which stands in the center 
of the stage ; his head is thrown back, and his eyes are closed. The doctor, 
standing on the right of the chair, holds the King's right hand to feel the 
pulse, and bends slightly as if listening to his breathine. Cordelia kneels 
upon her left knee on the left of the King, and holds his left hand iu both 
of hers, resting it upon his knee ; her eyes are bent upon the doctor's face, 
while her expression is one of intense anxiety. 

Red light from left. Soft, sad music. 

BETSY AND I ARE OUT, 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Little GiuIj.— Flowered brocade fi-ock, vrith long train; black lace mantilla; 

old-fashioned icaist, icith iviffles; antique bonnet, with gny ribbons: while 

hat puffed at the side of the face; long lohite gloves; lace handkerchief and 

Chinese fan. 
Little Boy.— Old fashione I en^broidt red silk dress-coot; light silk vest; ruffled 

shirt; cocked hat, with white feathers; silk hose; satin breeches; buckled 

shoes, and large snuff-box; powdered wig. 
the tableau. 

The figures should face the audience, though turned a little toward the 
left. 

The little boy, giving bis right arm to the little girl, holds an old-faah- 



2jo home amusements. 

ioned sunsbade over lier head. In his left hand he holds the open snuff- 
box which he is in the act of offering to her. The girl's right hand is raised 
as though about to take the pinch, and from her left hand, which rests upon 
the boy's arm, depend the lace handkercliief and fan. 
White light from left. Quaint music. 

RETUKN OF THE RUNAWAY. 

CHARACTERS AND C iSTDMES. 

Sailor. — Usual sailor's costume; tchUe flannel sliirt; wide collar; loose pants; 

sailoi-^s cap, and parcel tied up in a red handkerchief. 
3I0THER. — Plain dark dress; white cap; ivhile apron; spectacles, and gray 

hair. 
Father. — Ordinary fai-mer's suit; spectacles, and gray hair. 
Little Boy. — Short white child's dress. 

THE T.\BLEAU. 

The scene represents the interior of a farmer's cottage. 

Left, a table laid with white cloth and tea-service, cups, saucers, plates, 
kettle, etc. Behind table sits the aged mother in her high-backed chair, 
and faces right. At the right of table sits the father with his legs crossed, 
a newspaper upon his lap, and his spectacles pushed up upon his forehead. 
In front of the table, center, sits the child upon the floor, playing with a toy 
horse ; he faces left. Lighted lamp on the table. A little to the right of 
center stands the sailor, gazing upon the group before him ; his cap is on 
his head, and in his left hand he carries the red parcel. Tbe father, who 
is turned a little toward the table, looks over his left shoulder at the sailor 
as though he were a stranger. The mother, with her right hand upon the 
table, ia just about to rise to her feet as if she lecognized her boy. The 
sailor stands firm. 

The second picture discovers the sailor with right arm round his 
mother's waist ; she lias cast both her arms about his neck, while tbe father 
holds the son's left hand in both of his. Tbe cbild upon the floor has 
turned his bead about, and looks at the group in surprise. 

Red light from both sides. Pathetic music. 

COURTSHIP. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Young Lady. — Fashionable dress of the most approve I style; laces, floicers, 

and ornaments. 
Young Man. — Fashionable walking-suit; flowers in coat; silk hat, and cane. 
THE tableau. 

The scene presents a garden arranged with a rustic seat drawn a little 
toward the center of the stage. 

Upon the seat sits tbe young lady, with her hands resting beside a 
bouquet that lies in her lap, while her face is bent downward as if blush- 
ing ; she should face the left. 

Behind, and leaning upon the seat, stands the young man, his hat hang- 
ing over tbe back of the seat in both his hands, and bis eyes tiying to seek 
those of his lady-love. 

In the second scene the lover holds the young girl's hands in his and 
their eyes have met ; his position is the same, -T^hile the young lady has 
risen to her feet. 

Green light from left. Soft, gay music. 



MOME AMffSEMENTS. 261 

MATRIMONY. 
The same charaders as in the preceding. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The young man sita upon the lounge with his feet up reading a news- 
paper. 

Behind the seat utanda the young lady, looUuig at him and extending a 
bill toward him. 

In the sccoud scene the young man has cast down his paper, has risen 
to his feet and is in the act of tearing his hair. 

The young lady has turned her back upon him in a sort of resolute des- 
peration. * 

Red light from left. Loud, stormy music. 

REST IN THE DESERT. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Arab. — Loose mantle of various coiots in i-ti~ipes, ovei' a brown under-gown 
that descends to the ankhs; Oriental slippers; white Arabian turban, long 
pipe, loiih red botcl. 

Woman. — Pale green under-mbe; faint nd mantle; whi'e turban, with gold 
07-na7nents. 

Child. — Loose loldte robe: Ion; neck, and short sleeves. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The centr of the stage is occupied by a heap of packages and bales, 
such as are carried by camels. A Tarkish rug is spread in front of these, 
and half raised upon them lies the woman, facing left, with her head rest- 
ing upon her i-i^l't arm. The child lies with his head upon her lap. 

To the right of the pile stands the Arab, erect, and looking off right. 
He rests his right arm upon the pile, the right foot is thrown over the left, 
and the left hand holds the pipe which he has just taken from his lips. 

Strong red light from right. Romantic music. 

FORBIDDEN FRUIT. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Girl. — Ordinary serva)it's di-t^ss of light calico; skirt tucked up about the 

waist; sleeves rolled up as far as possible; small white cap on the head. 
Mak. — Policeman's c/re-^'S as nearly as possible. 

THE TABLEAU. 

In this picture the girl stands on the left of the stage, and is busily en- 
gaged uendihg over a wash-iub, into which her arms are plunged. 

At a window in the back stands the policeman, leaning in as far as he 
dares to catch a glimpse of his lady-love. 

In the second picture the girl stands on tiptoe at the window, with her 
back to the audience, and has her arms thi-own round the man's neck, while 
he, with his hat thrown back, is in the act of stealing the forbidden fruit in 
the shape of a kiss. 

A third picture may be made very amusing by introducing the mistress 
of the house. She should stand on the right, the maid should be plunged 
deeper than ever in the washing-tub, and the policeman outside the win- 
dow should display his full back to the audience. 

White light from left. Comic music. 

LOVE LOOKS NOT WITH THE EYES. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

GiBL. — White muslin short dresa; pink hose; white slippers; pink sash and 
i'ibbona. 



2G2 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

Boy. — While flannel suit; blue cravat, and handkerchief tied aver the eyes. 
Children. — Three or four girls, and as many boys, in pretty di-esses, inth 
fansjor the gii'ls. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The picture represents a game of blind man's buff. 

The boy, who is blind-folded, bas caught tbe girl in white muslin, and 
thrown his arais about her to try to sleal a kiss. He is a little shorter than 
she, and is therefore obliged to stand upon tiptoe. The two ticcupy the 
center of the stage, the boy right and the girl left, though she turns her 
head left and tries to escape. 

The other girls laughing conceal tlieir faces behind their fans, and the 
boys peep through their fingers. Their positions should be aa confused as 
possible. 

Red light from both sides. Gay music. 

THE SOLDIER'S DREAM. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTDMES. 

Soldier. — Gei'man uniform; (kirk blue coat trimmed inth red; blue pants 
piped ivilh red; regulation h-lmet and rifle; sliort sword. 

Girl — Gray dress trimmed v-Vlt black velcet; square corsage; the wlidle 
made after the fashion tf Marguerite's dress; light hair, braided. 

Lo\rER. — Fasldonable hunting-suit; fell hat, xoith feather; gun, and game 
bag. 

'THE TABLEAU. 

The stage should be decorated with evergreen trees. 

On the right, to profile, lies the soldier upon his back, with a dark man- 
tle thrown over his legs, while his head rests upon his knapsack ; his gun 
lies beside him, clasped by his left hand, and the right rests upon his 
breast. 

On the left of stage a camp-fire throws up fitful gleams. 

Pale blue light on the soldier. Soft music. 

The dream appears by a veil being drawn aside at the back, between 
the trees, and disclosing an oval frame, through which the girl is seen 
standing erect and looking toward right, with her right hand resting on the 
spinning-wheel. 

The second time the dream appears the girl is seated, and by her side 
kneels upon one knee the lover, holding her hand in both of his and 4ook- 
ing up into her face. 

Strong white light from right. Low music. 

THE ARTIST'S DREAM. 

CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES. 

Artist. — Picturesque suit of black velvet; velvet skull cap, and long hair; long 
black tiose, and buckled shoes. 

Vision. — Young girl, loith long yedow hair, dressed in a robe of faint pearl- 
colored gauze; no ornaments; sliort sleeoes and low neck; hair floating 
about shouldei's. 

THE TABLEAU. 

The same arrangement for the vision will answer which was used in the 
preceding tableau, though the stage must be altered from tlie field to the 
studio. The easel, with unfinished picture, stands a little to the right of 
the center. 

In a chair in front of it sits the artist, with his left hand, in which are 
the palette and brushes, resting upon it ; his head has sunk forward upon 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 2C3 

his left arm, and his right hand, with a brush in it, hangs listlessly beside 
him. 

The artist faces the right ; the vision appears just back of and above 
him. 

The veil should be slowly drawn and disclose the visiou with her bare 
arms thrown up gracefully above her head and her eyes cast upward, as if 
in the act of rising. 

Strong pink light en the vision ; red light from right on the artist. Soft 
music. 

Parlor Games. 

The Minister's Cat. — Draw your chairs in a sort of circle and let each 
person name an adjective beginning with the letter A, in this way : " The 
minister's cat is ambitious," says one. Amphibious, aBsthetic, ancient, 
active, athletic, antarctic, say others, until everything beginning with that 
letter is thought of. Then the letter B is used. " The minister's cat is 
bumptious." Others say belligerent, bankrupt, benignant, beseeching, 
beautiful, etc. When you come to V the cat is cautious, courteous, con- 
testing, confiding, cataleptic, contradicting, cruel, etc. 

Bird, Beast, ami Fisli._A person stands in the middle of the circle 
and points his fingers at one of the party, saying, "Bird," and then counts 
" one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, etc." If the one pomted at cannot 
name a bird before ten is reached, or names a fish or beast instead of a 
bird, he stands up and the first one takes his seat. No one must give what 
has been before given. 

Throw the Handltercliief—A handkerchief is thrown by the person 
standing in the center, and trying at the same time to touch the person who 
had it. Whoever has it throws it quickly to some one else, and all are on 
the alert to keep it flying. When a person is touched he takes the place of 
the one who stands in the center. 

Stage-Coach._One person is appointed to the position of Chief Nar- 
rator, and he names the different persons after parts of the stage-coach. 
One man is the "wheel," another the «' hub," the "whip," and thus the 
reins, horn, horses, steps, straps, old-lady-passenger, her band-box, etc., 
are given out. Then the Chief Narrator begins his tale, and whenever he 
names a wheel, hub, whip, etc., the one named after that part stands up 
and turns around and sits down again. When the word stage-coach is said 
all jump up and change seats, and the one left without any seat is obliged 
to go on wit) I the story. 

Fox and Geese.—Stand in two open circles one behind the other; 
leave one inside to play the " goose." Another outside to play the " fox." 
The " goose " may place herself in front of two others ; the " fox " sees this 
and catches the outside one of the three. To prevent this that outside one 
becomes the "goose" and runs inside in front of another pair again making 
three ; the outside one here must shift in front of another pair. The "fox" 
can only run outside of the circle, and the changing places is done inside 
the ring. 

Pantomime— One of the company must leave room while the others 
select a word which she is to guess on her return. Wlien she re-enters the 
room the others do not speak, but represent in pantomime some word 



264 HOME AMtJSEMSNfS. 

which shall rhyme with the one selected ; as, for iustaiice, should the word 
chosen be heat^ the first jjerson goes through with the motion to eat, the 
second carefully examines his feet, ihe third takes a stick and makes 
believe heat, while the third and fourth advance to meet, and so each one 
exercises his own ingenuity in finding and acting a rhyme with the chosen 
word, until it has been guessed, when the last actor must go out. 

French Blind-niaii—In this game, instead ot blindfolding one of the 
players, his hands are tied behind him, and in that difiBcult way he must 
endeavor to catch one of his companions, who must, when caught, submit 
to the same restraint. 

The Puzzle Word—One goes out of the room and the others agree 
upon a word, which is to be found out by asking questions, such as " Does 
the thing you have named fly ?" " Does it walk?" "Does it sing?" "Does 
it speak?" "Does it grow? ' etc. If the questioned cannot find out from 
the answers given, a forfeit must be paid. 

My Lady's Toilet—Each person represents some necessary of the 
toilet— brush, comb, soap, scent, brooch, jewel-case, etc., and the lady's 
maid stands in the middle of the circle, and calls for any article her lady is 
supposed to want. The personator of that article must then jump up, or 
be fined a forfeit for negligence. Every now and then the abigail announces 
that her lady wants her whole toilet, when the whole circle of players must 
rise and change places. The lady's maid herself makes a bolt for a chair, 
and the player who is left chairless in the scufifle becomes lady's maid. 

Shadow BulT. — Tins game is quite amusing. A sheet must be smoothly 
suspended at one end of the room, and in front of it must sit " Bufify," 
with his face toward the sheet and back to the company. Behind him a 
light must bo placed so as to throw the shadow of any person passing 
between it and Bnffy against the sheet. The other players must then pass, 
one at a time between Bufify and the light, and he must guess, from the 
shadow, who it is. Each one, as the shadow is thrown on tbe sheet, may 
limp, jump, and make such grimaces as he or she pleases in order to mis- 
lead Buffy. The one wlio correctly guesses must be Buffy in his or her turn. 

Pigeon Flies— This is a catch- game. The person who initiates it 
places his firefinger on the table, and calls out " Pigeon flies," at the same 
time raising his finger in the air. He goes on with several other birds, as 
"Sparrow flies," "Bluefincli flies," "Crow flies," raising his finger each 
time, in which he is to be imitated by the rest. But here comes the cruelty 
of the thing : for when the whole company is in full swing of imitating hiin, 
be calls out " Crocodile flies," or " Elephant flies," and does no< raise his 
finger in illustration of an assertion so manifestly contrary to the laws of 
nature. The other players, however, being unprepared, probably do as 
they have done before, and tlie consequence is that each one lias to pay a 
forfeit. The game must be carried on with some rapidity, so as not to 
allow time for reflection. 

Tableaux— A very delightful evening entertainment can be gotten up, 
by having some interesting story read or poem recited, and illustrating its 
most picturesque portions by a tableaux, the reader pausing while the cur- 
tain draws back revealing the grouped figure, then continuing the story 
until there is another opportunity f >r an illustration. Of course, the man- 
agement of the tableaux requires taste and skill, but with a little practice 
can be rendered very effective. The arrangement for stage and curtain is 



HOME AMIJSEMENTS. '2G5 

simply doue by laying ou tbe floor blocks of wood the required height, 
placing over them plauks in such a way as they will not tip, and then cov- 
ering the whole with carpet or rugs. In front of this platform extend a 
heavy wire fastened to small hooks screwed in the wall ; the curtain, made 
of any dark material, is attached to the wire by rings. 

Magical Music— Tliis is a very popular game where there is a piano 
or otlier musical instrument. One of the players leaves the room, and 
something is then hidden or alteied in the room, or the players decide that 
the absent one must do something on entering the room, such as make u 
courtesy, dance, sing a song, etc. The absent player is then called into 
the room and told whether it is something to find, sometliiug to alter, or 
something to do. Then the music begins. When he or she is near doing, 
finding, or altering the thing decided on, the music must be loud. When, 
on the contrary, he or she moves away from the thing hidden or altered, or 
does something unlike the thing decided upon, the music must be soft and 
low. 

One of the chief entertainments of this game is afforded by the many 
funny things the absent player will do before doing the thing agreed upon. 

Acrostics. — One member of the party leaves the room, while the oihers 
think ul some celebrated character, whether real or fictitious ; each player 
then in turn represents a well known character whose name begins with 
one of the letters of the word chosen ; for instance, if Grant should be the 
word selected, tlie first person tliiuks of some one whose name begins with 
G as Garfield, and the next with R as Ruskin, the third with A as Agassiz, tlie 
fourth N as Napoleon, the fifth T as Tennyson ; when those have been 
decided upon the one who is to guess returns, and turning to the first char- 
acter to discover whom she represent'* asks, "Are you living?" "Are you 
a poet ?" " Wei'e you famous in war ?" etc., and when it is found out the 
word begins with G, by repeating the questions to the next one they can 
each be guessed in turn, unless the word becomes known before question- 
ing all the participants. 

Tlie Mock Newspaper — This game, when there is a large family party 
assembled in one house for the Christmas holidays, affords a rich fund of 
amusement. An editor is appointed, who receives and copies on to a large 
folio sheet of paper all sorts of contributions ; his publication — which is 
produced and read aloud once a week to a laughing audience — being entit- 
led : The Saturday's Delight, or any other name that is appropriate ; and 
containing mock advertisements, daily news, verses, leading articles, sport- 
ing intelligence, etc., etc., all of which may relate to the home doings of 
the contributors, and be playfully sprinkled by their proper name, dis- 
guised, good-natured jests upon their employments, etc., and giving lively 
accounts, under different headings, of the particular amusements, occupa- 
tions, events, etc., which have distinguished each week. As it is generally 
considered pleasanter by the contributors to remain unknown, it would be 
best to place a box in some convenient part of the house, where all may 
deposit their contributions, but the articles must not be taken from it ex- 
cept by the editor. 

Qualifications. — In tliis game, the player possessing the most inven- 
tive genius writes a story, leaving blank spaces before each noun and 
proper name which occur in it, and then appeal in turn to each of the com- 
pany for an adjective, until the whole of the spaces are filled up. The tale 



2GG HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

is then lead aloiul, and much amusement will prohably be derived from 
the quaint and utterly inapplicable way in which the adjectives come in. 
For instance, the narrator writes : "The (metalliferous) Mr. Barkms, walk- 
ing one (rectangnliir) day in company wiih the (calcareous) Bishop of Penn- 
sylvania, met tlie (straw-colored) Mrs. Barivius driving in an (empty-headed) 
barouche, with the (iroii-plated)'l)aby, the (kilted) nurse, and the (hypothe- 
cated) Queen of Honolulu, whereupon he naturally went to the (desiccated) 
canal, and precipitated his (multitarious) body into the (incongruous) water, 
wliich resulted in a most (felicitous) suicide, and a (vicarious) verdict of 
felo de se." The more far-fetched the adjectives the better, since they add 
the more to tlie startling nature of the history told. 

The Magic Answer — This trick must be known to only two of the 
company. It is this : One person goes out of the room wliile the others fix 
on a word, which she is to guess on her return. There is an agreement 
between the two that the right word shall be named after anything with four 
legs — as a table, a chair, a dog, an elephant, etc., etc. For example : A 
lady goes out of the room ; the company fix on the word " watch." She re- 
turns. Her accomplice in the trick says : 

Quei^y. Did we name a book ? 

Ans. No. 

q. Of a ship ? 

A. No. 

Q. Did we name a rose ? 

A. No. 

Q. Of a bird ? 

A. No. 

Q. Of a sheep? (Four legs.) 

A. No. 

q. Of a watch? 

A. Yes. 

Tlie L-aivyer. — The company must form in two rows opposite to, and 
facing each other, leaving room for the Lawyer to pass up and down be- 
tween them. When all are seated, the one who personates the Lawyer will 
ask a question or address a remark to one of the persons present, either 
standing before tlie person addressed or calling Ids name. The one spoken 
to is not to answer, but the one sitting opposite to him must reply to the 
question. The object of the Lawyer is to make either the one he speaks 
to answer him, or the one that should answer, to keep silent, tlierefore, he 
should be quick in hurrying from one to another witli liis questions, taking 
them by surprise, and noticing those who are the most inattentive. No one 
must be allowed to remind another of their turn to speak. When the Law- 
yer has succeeded in eitlier making one speak that should not, or finding any 
that did not answer when they should, they must exchange places with 
eacli other, and the one cauglit becomes Lawyer. This game will be found 
quite amusing if conducted with spirit. 

Tlie Emperor of Morocco.— This is one of those games in which the 
art consists in preserving an immutable gravity, under every provoca- 
tion to laugh. In " the Emperor of Morocco " two of the players, generally 
one of each sex, advance with measured steps into the middle of the room, 
and ceremoniously salute each other, and the following dialogue takes 
place, the speakers being compelled to look one another full in the face : 



nOMEl AMJISEMEN'TS. 2G7 

First Player — Tbe Emperor of Morocco is dead. Second riayer — I'm 
very sorry for it. First Plaijer — He died of the gout in bis left groat toe. 
Second Player — I'm very sorry for it. First Player — A.iid all the court are 
to go iuto mourniug, and wear black rings through their noses. Scco7id 
riayn'— I'm very sorry for it. They then how again and retire to their 
places, while another pair conies forward to go through the same im- 
pressive dialogue ; and so on, till the game has gone all round the circle, 
a forfeit being the penalty for the slightest approach to a giggle. 

The Dickens Party. — This is a gathering in masks and costumes. A 
book of Dickens is to be selected to furnish characters for the party. Each 
person is expected to appe*i' on tlie appointed evening in the character as- 
signed him, masked, costumed, and all the conversation is to he in exact 
accordance with the characters assumed. The playei'S are to guess each 
other's assumed names and characters. 

Suppose, for example, the book selected is " Bleak House." " Jo " will 
appear as a forlorn sireet-boy with broom, and will sustain that character 
in the evening's conversation. 

" My Lady Dedlock " will be superb and dignified. " Mrs. Jellby " will 
talk to all of her African Mission, and solicit aid for Borrioboola Gha. " Mr. 
Turveydrop " will be very stiiT and formal, and have much to say about 
"deportment." So with a dozen or more characters. 

A Shakespeare party is arranged in the same way, a play being selected 
for the characters, and each character is to appear in appropriate costume, 
and masked, and is to assume the ancient form of conversation. 

Out we Go, ill we Go. — This most laughable affair is thus conducted : 
Suppose twelve persons are to play. Place eleven chairs in a row, one 
chair facing one way, and the next the other way ; so that six of the chairs 
will face one side of the room, and five chairs the other side. If there is a 
piano or other musical instrument in the room, let some one play a tune on 
it ; and the company, keeping step to the music, must mai-ch, in single file, 
around and around the chairs. The player mu.st not finish the tune, but 
must suddenly stop at some unexpected place, when the company must im- 
mediately sit down. As there are twelve persons and only eleven chairs, 
of course one person finds himself, to his astonishment, without a seat, and 
retires from the play. Now take one chair away, and repeat the marching 
and sitting down, when another person will be left out. Continue the pro- 
cess until only one chair is left, when the march of the two remaining 
persons around it is quite amusing to see. The one who finally secures the 
chair is the victor of the game. If there is no musical instrument, some 
one may sing a song, or read, or recite a piece or poem, stopping sud- 
denly. 

Tlie Blind Postman — This is a new variation of an old game ca'led 
" Marching around Jerusalem." It is, however, more dramatic than the 
old-time favorite. The host will usually offer his services as postmaster- 
general, or will assign the position to some prominent guest. The post- 
master-general appoints a postman, who is blindfolded, after which the 
company seat themselves around the sides of the room so as to leave a large 
open space. 

Cards must be prepared in anticipation of the play, on each of which is 
printed the name of the cards having a different name, as " Boston," "New 
York," " Paris," " Berlin," " London," " Rome," etc. These are distributed 
among the company, each receiving the name of a city. 



•2!;,S HOME AMUKSMENTS. 

The postmaster-geueral takes a position where he cau speak to the eutiie 
coiupauy, and the postmuu takes his place in the middle of the room. He 
now calls the names of two cities : 

"Boston to New York !" 

The players bearing these names must instantly rise and endeavor 
to change seats with each other, and the blind postmaster must try and 
capture one of them before they can make the change. Should he succeed, 
he can exact a forfeit of the person caught, who in turn becomes the blind 
postman ; and so the game proceeds. 

Hoine-TriitUs.—A diplomatic game, showing how the same fact is 
capable, if properly manipulated, of being drawn to any inferences, however 
opposite they may be. One of the company— supposing it to be a lady — 
informs her neighbor that she wishes she were some animal or object 
supremely disagreeable, and asks if he knows why. The person addressed 
is bound to give a passable reason, and at the same time to avoid paying 
a compliment in giving it. The lady then asks the person on her right the 
same question, and in this case must bo answered wich a compliment. For 
instance, the lady may say, "I should like to be a coal-scuttle ; can you 
till me why ?" The first person addressed may answer, " Because you are 
less fair than useful, and your heart is only fit to be burnt." The second 
person, of whom the same question is asked, replies, "Because you furnish 
the charm of home, and when appealed to never fail ro produce a flame." 
Or a gentleman may say, " I should like to be a centipede ; can you tell me 
wiiy?" The first person appealed to, replies, " Bicause you would be the 
better able to run away fnmi your creditors." The second answers, " In 
order that whenever one of your friends had not a leg to stand upon, you 
might lend him one of your own." Each one of the company takes a turn 
at the choice, and by the time the end is reached a pretty crop of dispar- 
agement, and an equally plentiful supply of compliments, will have been 
obtained, between which the truth as to any particular player may be dis- 
covered. 

Proverbs. — One of the company having left the room, the rest select 
some proverb in his absence. On his readmittance, he must ask random 
questions of all the party in turn, who, in their replies, must bring in the 
words of the proverb in succession. The first person that is addressed 
will introduce the first word of the proverb in the answer ; the second per- 
son, the second word, and so on until the proverb is exhausted. For 
instance, " Honesty is the best policy," is the one selected, and suppose 
the first question to be : 

"Have you been out to-day ?" the party questioned might say : 
"Yes, I have, and very nearly lost my purse ; but it was picked up by 
a boy who ran after me with it, and whose ' honesty ' I was very glad to 
reward." 

He then passes on to the next and says : " Were you in the country last 
suYnmer ?" 

" Yes, in a most lovely place, where it ' is ' very mountainous." 
To the next one he asks : " Are you fond of reading ?" 
" Oh, yes ! it is one of ' the ' sweetest pleasures." 
To another, "Which do you prefer, summer or winter?" 
" Both are so delightful, that I do not know which I like ' best.' " 
To the last, " Cau you tell me if there are any more words in this prov- 
erb ?" 



Ho Mi: AMuSEMEXTS. 26!) 

"I will give you the last word, but I would show greiter 'policy' if I 
refused to answer you." 

The person must then guess it or forfeit, and the one whose answer first 
gave him the idea must take his turn of heing the guesser. If any are 
unable to bring in their word, they must likewise pay a forfeit. It is an 
extremely amusing game, from the laughable way in which some of the 
words are necessarily introduced. 

Tlie Stick.— This game consists in forming a double cii'cle, the players 
placing themselves two by two, so that each boy, by holding a girl in front 
of him, makes what is called a stick. It is necessary that the players 
should be of an even number. The circles being formed, two persons are 
chosen, the one to catch the other. When the person who is pursued does 
not wish to be overtaken (whicli would oblige him to take the place of tlie 
pursuer), and at the same time desires to rest, he places himself in front 
of any of the sticks he chooses, but within the circle, so that this stick is 
then composed of three persons, which is contrary to the rule. Then the 
third one, who is on the outside of tlie circle, must at once nin, to avoid 
being cau.£;ht. If he is caught, he takes the jilace of the pursuer, who, in 
his turn, starts off, or, if he prefers it, enters into ihe circle, and places 
himself before one of the sticks, thus obliging a new player to run like the 
for.ner one ; this one himself can at once oblige another player to run, by 
placing himself, in his turn, before a stick, and it is ihis whicli gives life to 
the game, provided the players have a fair shai-e of spirit and agility. 

The Farrago. — One of the company is selected to tell a tale, and the 
rest each choose a trade, such as bootmaker, baker, ironmonger, green- 
grocer, sailor, silversmith, cheesemonger, etc. The narrator, whenever he 
requires a noun, appeals to one of the tradesmen, who is bound, under pain 
of paying forfeit, to furnisli one out of the stock-in-trade of his own calling, 
and those, of coirrse, come in most incongruously. Thus the narrator begins : 
" Sir Ronald the Fearless, finding time hang heavy on his lianfis, resolved 
to go out shooting ; and as in those times human life was not held so 
valuable as it is in these degenerate days, he cared little whether he shot 
(appeals to greengrocer) cabbages or (appeals to bootmaker) top-boots. In 
the first place, then, he called his trusty (appeals to sailor) captain's gig, 
and, the castle being moated, lowered it into the (appeals to butcher) loin 
of poik, and steered for the (appeals to baker) qnartei'u loaf opposite. He 
then carefully looked at his (appeals to butcher) ribs, to see that the (ap- 
peals to bootmaker) spurs were quite dry, and as the very next moment he 
chanced to see a (appeals to sailor) forty-gun frigate flying past him at the 
rate of fifty ( ippeals to baker) penny rolls an hour, he raised the aforesaid 
(appeals to butcher) liver and lights, fired at it, hit it, brought it down, and 
then discovered it to be (appeals to sailor) half a ration of grog, though 
some said it was (appeals to cheesemonger) Cheshire cheese, while the 
majority maintained that it was a (appeals to silversmith) dozen forks." 
The appeals are made by simply nodding to the person addressed, so as 
not to interrupt the thread of the story, and the result — as will be seen 
from the example — is more entertaining than comprehensible. 

CIiaracters._In this game two players are sent out of the room, and 
the rest decide on two characters in history or everyday life which have in 
some way, however remote, a connection with each other, such ae Napoleon 
and Wellington, the Siamese twins, David Copperfield and Nicholas Nickleby 



270 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

and Grant and Sherman, etc., etc. When the two absent players return, 
they arc privileged to ask any question they like of any of the rest, and by 
this means try to gain some intt)rmatiou as to the peculiarities, appearance, 
etc., of the characters chosen, and so guess who they are. The skill in this 
game is the adroit way in which the questions are put and parried. If in- 
stead of choosing characters in history or fiction, two friends or two of the 
party are chosen, a great deal of fuu may be occasioned by the inappro- 
priateness of tlie questions and answers given. 

AVliy J Wlien 1 and AVJiere l_Something is selected— a book, a word 
with varioiis meanings, sometimes a person even — and the questioner has to 
ascertain what that something or somebody is, by tlie simple questions. 
Why do you like it ? When do you like it ? and Where do you like it ? In 
the hands of clever players — apt at lepartee — the merriment occasioned 
by this game, when the subject is well chosen, is almost endless. From 
our recent experiences, however, we are inclined to think it requires a 
somewhat intimate acquaintance with a variety of slang terms, many words 
having a slang meaning beiug elicited in the answers. 

The Cat and tlie Mouse. — Let all the company join band in hand in a 
circle, except one who is placed inside, called the Mouse, and another out- 
side, called the Cat. They begin by running around, raising the arms ; the 
Cat springs in at one side and the Mouse jumps out at the other ; they then 
suddenly lower the arms so that the Cat c.innot escape. The Cat goes 
round mewing, trying to get out ; and as the circle must keep dancing 
round all the time, she must try and find a weak place to bieak through. 
As soon as she gets out, she chases the Mouse, who tries to save herself by 
getting within the circle again. For this purpose they raise their arms. If 
she gets in without beins; followed by the Cat, the Cat must pay a forfeit 
and try again ; but if the Mouse is caught, she must pay a forfeit. Then 
they name who shall succeed them ; they fall into the circle, and the game 
g<jes on as before. 

Run for Yonr Lives. — This game is a very pretty variation of that of 
" The House of the Little Man," " The Key of the King's Garden,'' and 
others of the sime kind. It difters from them, however, in this, that some 
sort of a story must be invented, and this story roust have a particular 
ending, which will lead to the penalty of forfeits ; the mistakes also com- 
mitted in the repetition of the phrases of which the story is composed, lead 
likewise to the paying of forfeits. 

Example.— i::\ie leader of the game says to his right hand neighbor : 

" Here is an engraving " The right hand neighbor repeats these words 

to his right hand neighbor, and so on to the last player. When the last 
player has repeated the words to the leader of the game, the latter contin- 
ues : " Here is an engraving which represents a young lady " (repeated 
throughout the circle as before). " Here is au engraving," etc., " stop- 
ped by three robbers " (:is before) " Here is," etc., " tlie first seizes 

her" fas before). "Here is," etc., the second puts a poniard to her 

heart " (as before). " Here is," etc., " The third now perceiving the 

police officers coming up, cries out: ' Run for your lives!'" At this cry 
all the company start up and inin away, except those who, unacquainted 
with the game, remain in their seats during this alarm, and are therefore 
obliged to pay a forfeit for their ill-timed sense of security. 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 271 

Cupid's Box.—Thia game, invented to compel forfeits, is played iu the 
following manner : The one who commences okcva a bi>x to his right hand 
neighbor, and says : " I sell you my Cupid's Box, which contains three 
phrases — To Love, To Kiss and To Dismiss." The neighbor answers: 
"Whom do you love? whom do you kiss? whom do you dismiss?" At 
each of these questions, which are put separately, the person who has given 
the box names some individual present whom lie Loves, Kisses or Dis- 
misses. The person whom he kisses must in reality kiss him, and the one 
that he dismisses pays a forfeit. A player may love, kiss or dismiss sev- 
eral, or even all tlmse present ; but this is permitted only once during the 
game— a regulation which brings it to a termination. 

The Bouquet. — Each player in his turn supposes himself to be a bou- 
quet, composed of three different flowers. Each one must name aloud to 
the leader of the game the three flowers (;f which he considers himself 
composed. The leader of the game writes down the names of the three 
flowers and adds to what he has written, without informing the other, the 
names of any tliree persons of the company ho may choose. He then asks 
the player to what use he intends to put the three flowers he has chosen. 
The player tells him to what u. e he means to put them, and the leader of 
the game applies it to the three persons that ho has written down. 

Example. — The Leader of the Game. Miss Julia, choose your three 
flowei-8. Julia. The Marigold, the Bachelor's Button and the Rose. The 
Leader. I have written them down. Now what will you do with your Mar- 
igold? Jidia. I will throw it o'er my shoulder. The Leader. And the 
Bachelor's Button ? Julia. I will put it at my window. The Leader. And 
the Ri>se ? Julia. I will put it on the mantel-piece. The Lender. Very well, 
you have thrown Adolphus over your shoulder, you have put Miss Mai-ia 
at your window, and adorned your mantel-piece with Charles. And now, 
Mr. Adolphus, it is your turn to speak. Choose your three flowers. 

Tlie Order of tile 'WUistle — The candidate for admission to this 
Order must not have seen the game before. Blindfold him and go through 
with such mock iui'dation as your ingenuity may suggest, the most impor- 
tant part of which will be to put upon him a cloak from the back of which 
must hang a short string with a small whisile at the end. Then tell him 
that only one thing remains to be done to make him a member, he must 
ascertain who has the whistle, and after sounding it once, unblind him and 
let the fun begin. Some one at his back uses the whistle ; he tui'ns to seize 
it and of course carries it to some one else to sound ; and so the sport 
goes on. 

A Guessing Game. — One player leaves tlie rooj], and during his ab- 
sence the rest choose some well-known character, dead or living. Then 
the guesser being called back each of the other players hints at some fact 
iu the history of the person fixed upon, and the one at whose remarks he 
guesses aright takes his place as guesser. The fun of the game depends 
on the remarks being not too plain, but only suggestive. 

Adjectives. — One player writes a letter, which of course he docs not 
show, leaving blanks for adjectives. He then asks each player for an ad- 
jective, filling up the spaces in order as he receives them. The letter is 
likely to cause a laugh when completed. 

Have You Read tUe ]Ve\v Book T — One player says, " Have you 
read the new book ?" He is asked by the next player, " What is it about ?" 



272 Home AMUEJSMENTS. 

aud answers by uaming some subject beginning with a word having A for 
its initial. Then the next player asks the same question aud meets with 
the same response. " What is it about?" but uses in his reply the initial 
B, and so the game progresses thmugh all the letters of the alphabet. 
Failing to give correct replies subjects the careless one to forfeit. 

Destiny. —An intelligent person of ready wit is selected for the Oracle, 
and sent out of the room for a few minutes. The rest of the company, 
seated in a semi-circle, whisper each to each a person's name (preferable 
of one present), to the hft hand neighbor, aud a sentiment to the right 
hand neighbor — ladies giving gentlemen's name.s and the ge:itlemeu ladies' 
names. The Oracle is theu called in and takes his seat, and begins an 
imaginative narrative suited to the circumstances aud to tlie assembly be- 
fore him— the more brilliant his part the more interesting the proceedings. 

Suppose, for instance, he knows a pleasantry about any two persons 
present, and he remarks, beginning with the fiist person seated on his left, 
whom we will call Miss A : " What did you. Miss A, say was the name of 
the gentleman you heard so passionately pleading with a fair damsel for a 
token of affection, the other evening, at such and such a place ?" (She theu 
gives you name previously whispered to her.) It may not be the person 
about whom it would be true ; but the hit will be nearly as good and not a 
few present may appreciate its full force. What is more, promiscuous 
bluslies may reveal unsuspected developments in other directions. The 
Oracle theu continues aud asks Miss A, again : "And what was the tender 
and expressive sentiment that he swore to be his watchword aud guiding 
talisman?" (She here repeats the sentiment previously whispered to her.) 
It may or may not suit aud the awkward or appropriate association will 
generally cause innocent confusion or merriment. The Oracle then pro- 
ceeds to player B. In this way, by bringing in matter from society, politics, 
art, literature and whatever other fields suggest appropriate material, a 
very superior diversion can be enjoyed. 

Dumb Scranibo. — The company divides into two about equal in num- 
ber and equally matched parties ; one side goes out, the otlier side chooses 
quietly a word — let us say for a somewhat hard one— s?ie:'n ; they then 
inform the side out that they have chosen a word that rhymes with lean. 
The side out must now act without speaking the different words they think 
of that rhyme with lean until they hit the proper word. If the side that is 
in and forms the audience cannot guess any word that is properly acted, or 
if the side out act the right word, then the side in must go out and try to 
find whatever word the other side chooses. 

An Animated Game. — Place in a do ible line one more chair than 
players ; then march arouud them in a circle, keeping s ep to the music of 
a performer on an instrument or the voice of some one singing. Whenever 
the operator or singer stops you must all sit down as rapidly as you can, 
and whoever fails to find a chair drops out. Tne number of chairs is dim- 
inished by one, and so you keep ou until only one person remains, who 
wins the game. Euileuess should be carefully avoided in this and every 
other sport, especially towards the ladies. 

Blue Jack.— For those who play cards we have been told an excellent 
round game is to take from the pack enough small cards to make them 
divide evenly among the numbers of players, then follow exactly the laws 
of whist, except that each player generally plays for himself, and every 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. . ' 273 

txick he takes counts oufi poiut, if four play, and two points if more than 
four play ; but whoever takes the trick with the jack of clubs in it has ten 
taken off his Score, or charged against what he may get. If, therefore, you 
get the jack of clubs dealt to you try to work it off on someone else by 
throwing away when you cannot follow suit, or in some other way. Taking 
the trick with the jack in it- makes one feel blue, hence the name of the 
game. 

Q,uestioiis and Ans^vers. — Have four packs, with two different kinds 
of backs, say red and blue. Deal one blue pack to the gentlemen and one 
rod pack to the ladies. Then the dealer places before her two packs — 
one red backs, one blue backs. To start the game she then begins to ask 
a question such aS : "Who has been flirting this evening?" And she then 
draws the first blue card before her — say the knave of hearts — and which- 
*ever gentleman has the knave of liearts is the guilty person. He then asks 
a question, say : " "What sweet charmer has been the cause of my transgres- 
sion?" The leader draws now a red back — say the queen of hearts — and 
the lady with the queen is the accomplice : she, in turn, asks a question, 
and so the game proceeds until all the cai'ds are drawn. This is a very 
interesting game when properly played. 

- Bean Bags. — Divide the company in two equal parties, arranged about 
a yard apart in two parallel rows facing each other. Have^ say, two dozen 
stoutly-sewn bags, about eight inches long by four wide, and filled com- 
fortably full of beans. The bags mtist be so that they can be easily and 
quickly grasped by the hand. Choose two judges, and place one at each 
end of your lines, each with a table in front. Have the bean bags in two 
piles of twelve each, each before one judge, who is to give the signal to 
start, when the bags must be passed singly along each line, passing sepa- 
rately through each hand oh each player down to the table at the other 
end, thefe stacked up and returned as rapidly as possible. The contest is 
to see which side can get the bags down and back first. In case a bag is 
dropped by any one, it must always be picked up by the hand of that per- 
son farthest from the table toward which it is going, and when dropped 
from a table must always be put back on table before passing. ■Whichever 
side gets the bags down and back first a certain number of times is declared 
the winner. This is a game in which those who keep cool and pay close 
attention are almost sure to win, and it is interesting when properly played. 
It is particularly desirable to i»ave good persons at each end of the lines. 

• 
The Featlier Game. —The players are seated in a circle, with their 
chairs close togeiher. The leader takes a.piece of goose or swan's-down, 
and blows it irp wards towards the center- of the circle. The company are 
now expected to keep it afloat with their breath, its falling to the ground 
involving a forfeit from the person on whom, or nearest to whom, it falls. 

Cupid's Coming — A letter must be taken, and the termination ."ing." 
Say, for instance, that P is chosen. The first player says to the second, 
"C.upid's coming." " How is he coming ?" says the second. "Playing," 
rejoiis the first. The second then says to the third, "Cupid's coming." 
" How ?" " Pranciuij ; " and so the question and reply go around, through 
all the words beginning with P and ending with ing— piping, pulling, pin- 
ing, praising, preaching, etc. Those who caouot auswer the question on 
the spur of the jnoment pay a forfeit, 



274 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

How d'ye Liike Your Neighbor I — The company must be seated in 
a circle around the room, with a clear space in the middle. The chairs are 
placed close together, and the number of chairs ia one less than that of the 
players, twelve chairs. The chairless person stands in the middle of the 
room, and addressing one of the company, says, " Master Jones, how do 
you like your neighbor?" Jones may either answer " Very well, indeed," 
or, singling out two of the company, he may say, " I prefer Master A to Miss 
B," or " Miss A. to Mr. R." If, being of a contented disposition, he likes 
both his neighbors " very much, indeed," all the players must change 
places ; if, on the contrary, he prefers Master A. to Miss B., the two whom 
he names must change, the others sitting still ; in either case it is the object 
of the person in the middle to get into one of the vacant chairs while the 
changing is going on ; and if he can succeed in doing this, the person thus 
left seatless must stand in the middle, and ask the players how they lilce 
their neighbors ; if not, the first player has to take up his position in the 
center again, and the game goes on. 

Forfeits. — 1. To put one Hand where the other caimot touch it. — This is 
performed by grasping the right elbow with the left hand. 

2. Tolaugh ia one Corner, cry in another, dance in another, and sing in 
another. 

3. To Jciss the Candlestick. — This is performed by getting a young lady 
to hold the candle, and kissing her. 

4. To act the Knight of the rueful countenance. —The victim takes a candle 
in his hand, and having selected some other player to be his Squire, they 
perambulate the room together, the Squire kissing the hand (or, if permit- 
ted, the cheek) of each lady in succession, and after each salute carefully 
wiping the Knight's mouth with a handkerchief, the Knight looking as 
cheerful as he can under the circumstances. 

5. The Journey to Home. — The victim in this case is supposed to be 
dispatched on a journey to Rome, but, before his departure, he is required 
to go to each person in the room in succession, and ask if he has anything 
to send to His Holiness the Pope. Each entrusts him with something, the 
more cumbrous tlie better. When lully loaded, he completes his penance 
by carrying every article out of the room. 

6. To Spell Consta7itino2)le. —Thia is a mere trap to catch the .unwary. 
The ofiender is required to spell Constantinop'e. He begins, and is allowed 
to get safely as far as Conslanti, when there is a general cry of " no," 
meaning the next syllable. If the victim knows the ti'ick, he spells calmly 
on and is free, but if he is not in the secret, he naturally believes that he 
has made some mistake, and begins again, only to be greeted by the shout 
of "no" once more at the same point. 

7. The Three Salutes. — The victim is required to kneel to the prettiest, 
bow to the wittiest, and kiss the one he loves the best. This may either be 
fulfilled literally, according to the gentleman's own notion of the compara- 
tive merits of the ladies present, or evaded, after the manner indicated in 
the next forfeit. 

8. To kiss the lady you love best icithout any one knowing it. — This is per- 
formed by kissing each lady in turn, the favorite being thus effectually 
concealed. 

9. To kiss your own Shadoio.— The uninitiated understand this in a lit- 
eral sense, but the better informed victim places himself between a ladjr 
S,nd the light, and tenderly salutes her, 



HOME AMUSEMENTS. 275 

10. To sU upon the Fire. — This somewhat unpleasant penalty is usually 
evaded by writiug " the fire " on a small piece of paper, and sitting on it. 

11. To leave the Boom icith two Legs, and come in with six. — This is per- 
formed by leaving the room, and, on your return, bringing in a chair with 
you. 

12. — To perform (he Egotist. — The victim is required to propose his own 
health iu a flowery speech, and to sing the musical honors as a solo. 

13. To place three Chairs in a roLO, take off your Shoes, and jum,p over 
them. — It is not always perceived that it is the shoes, and not the chairs, 
that the victim is required to jump over. 

14:. — To bile an inch off' a Poker. — This is a penalty of a similar charac- 
ter, being performed by holding the end of the poKer about an inch from 
tha face, and making a bite at it. 

15. — To blow a Candle out blhidf()ld.— T\iia is an admirable penance. The 
victim, having been shown tlie position of the candle, is securely blind- 
folded, and after having been turned round once or twice, is requested to 
go and blow it out. The cautious manner in which the victim will go and 
endeavor to blow out the clock on the mantelpiece, or an old gentleman's 
bald head, while the candle is burning serenely a few feet behind him, 
must be seen to be appreciated. 

16.— To ask a question that cannot be answei-ed in the negative. — The for- 
feit, if the secret is not known, will give the victim some trouble. The 
mystic question is, " What does y — e— s spell ?" 

17. Tlie Three Questions. — The victim is required to leave the room. 
Three questions are agreed on in bis absence, and he is required to say 
" Yes " or " No " to each, without knowing what the qiiestions are ; the 
result being, frequently, that he finds he has made some ignominous ad- 
mission, has declined something that he would be very glad to have, or 
accepted something tliat lie would much rather be without. 

18. — To kiss a Book inside and oulside without opening it. — This apparent 
impossibility is solved by kissing the book first in the room, and then tak- 
ing it outside the door and kissing it again. 

19. To take a person upstairs, and bring him down upon a Feather. — The 
heaviest person in the room is generally selected as the person to be taken 
up-stairs, iu order to heighten the apparent difiBoulty ; which, however, is 
solved by briuKing the person a soft feather, which being covered with 
down, you may be truthfully said to have brought him " down upon a 
feather." 

20. To place a stratc (or otiier small article) on the Ground in such man- 
ner that no one present can jump over it. — This is done by placing it close 
against the wall. 

21. — To act Living Statues. — The victim stands on a chair, and is posed 
by the members of the company in succession, according to their various 
(and sometimes very original) conceptions of Grecian Statues. 

22. To shake a Penny off the Fm-ehead. — This may be made productive 
of much amusement. The leader, having previously wetted a penny, 
presses it firmly for several seconds against the forehead of the victim. 
Then he withdraws his thumb ; he secretly brings away the coin, but the 
victim invariably believes that he can feel it still sticking to his forehead, 
and his head-shakings and facial contortions, in order to get rid of his 
imaginary burden, are frequently very ludicrous. It is, of course, under- 
stood that he is not allowed to touch his forehead with his hands. 

2Z.—The German Band.—Th.\s is a joint forfeit for three or four players, 



276 HOME AMUSEMENTS. 

each of whom is aasigued some imaginary instrument, and required to 
personate a performer in a German band, imitating not only the actions of 
tbe player, but the sound of the instrument, after the manner described on 
another page. 

One Old Ox Opening Oysters. —This is a c.ipital round game, and 
will tax the memory and the gravity of the youngsters. Tlie company 
being seated, the fugleman says, "One old ox opening oysters," which each 
must' repeat in turn witli perfect gravity. Any one who indulges in the 
slightest giggle is mulcted of a forfeit forthwith. When the first round is 
finished the fugleman begins again: "Two toads, totally tired, trying to 
trot to Troy ;" and the others repeat in turn, each separately, "One old ox 
opening oysters ; two toads, totally tired," etc. The third round is, " Three 
tawny tigers tickling trout," and the round recommences : " One old ox, 
etc.; two toads, totally, etc.; three tawny tigers, etc." The fourth round, 
and up to the twelfth and last, given out by the fugleman successively, and 
repeated by the other players, are as follows : " Four fat friars fanning a 
fainting fly : five fair flirts flying to France for fashion ; six Scotch salmon 
selling six sacks of sour-krout ; seven small soldiers successfully shooting 
snipe ; eight elegant elephants embarking for Europe ; nine nimble noble- 
men nibbling nonpareils ; ten tipsy tailors teasing a titmouse ; eleven. early 
earwigs eagerly eating eggs ; and twelve twittering tomtits on the top of a 
tall, tottering tree." Any mistake in repeating this legend, or any depar- 
ture from the gravity suitable to the occasion, js to be punished by the in- 
fliction of a forteit ; and the game has been seldom known to fail in produc- 
ing a rich harvest of those little pledges. Of course, a good deal depends 
on tLe serio-comic gravity of the fugleman. 

He Can Do Little Wlio Can't Do This—This is another " sell " of 
almost childish simplicity, but we h'ave seen people desperately puzzled 
over it, and even " give it up " in despair. The leader takes a stick (or 
poker) iu his left hand, thence transfers it to his right, and thumps three 
times on the floor, saying, " He can do little who can't do this." He then 
hands the stick to another person, who, as he supposes, goes through ex- 
actly the same performance, but, if he does not kuow the game, is gen- 
erally told, to his disgust, that he has incurred a forfeit, his imitation not 
having been exact. The secret lies in the- fact that the stick, when passed 
on, is first received iu the li-ft hand, and thence transferred to the right 
before going through the thumping ceremony. An uninitiated person 
almost instinctively takes the stick in the right hand at once. 

Jack's Alive. — ^The principle of this game is delightfully simple. An 
ordinary stick of fire-wood is "held in the fire till it is well alight, when the 
flame is blown out, leaving the end still smouldering. In' this condition, 
the players being seated in a circle, it is passed from hand to hand, each 
player saying, as he passes it on, " Jack's A-live !" As soon as th6 last 
spark is out, Jack is no longer alive, aud the player in whose hands he dies 
is bound to pay a forfeit. The wood is again lighted, and paasea from hand 
to band as before. 



THE HOUSEHOLD, 



COOKING RECIPES. 



Breakfast Dishes. 

To Make Good Coffee. — French cooks are famous for the excellence of 
their cofifee, which they make so strong that one part of the Uquor requires 
the addition of two parts to reduce it to the proper strength. This addition 
is made with hot milk. The large proportion of hot mUk, in the place of go 
much warm water, gives the cofifee a richness like that made by the addition 
ot cream in the ordinary way. By this means any housekeeper desirous of 
making good cofifee, can have it without cream. 

Hominy Miiffiiis. — Take two cups of very fine hominy, boiled and cold; 
beat it smooth and stir in three cups of sour milk, half a cup of melted 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of salt and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar; 
then add three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of soda dissolved in hot 
water, and one large cup of flour; bake quickly. 

Corn Mnflins.— One^pint of com meal, one pint of sour milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of soda, two eggs, twcv tablespoonfala of sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, a Uttle salt. Stir soda into the milk and mix with the 
meal; add the eggs, melted butter, sugar and salt. Beat briskly, and baks 
in cups in a hot oven. Very nice breakfast cakes. 

Breakfast Muffins. — Set a rising as for bread overnight. In the morn- 
ing, early, warm a pint of milk and beat into the dough' sufficient to make it 
as for ordinary muffin batter; beat well for five or ten minutes and set to 
rise for breakfast. Bake in rings on a veiy hot griddle, and turn frequently 
to prevent burning. 

Bnttermilk Mnffins— One quart of sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in warm water, a teaspoonful of salt, and flour sufiS- 
cient to make a good batter. Beat the eggs well, stir them into the milk, 
then add the flour and salt, and lastly the soda. Bake in a quick oven. 

• Bread Griddle Cakes — To a pint of bread crumbs add one pint of 
boiling milk; cover closely and let it stand over night. In the morning mash 
to a smooth paste and beat in the yelks of two eggs; then slowly add one- 
half pint of cold milk, beating all the time; and one-half pint of flour with 
which a measure of baking powder has been sifted; lastly add the whites ol 
the eggs, beaten to a stiflf froth; ii-y like griddle cakes. 

Buckwheat Cakeg._The best buckwheat cakes are made with s« 
additioQ of com meal flour and oat meal flour to the buckwbeat, Iq this pre« 



278 THE wotrssnoLd. 

portion: Six clips of bnckwlicat, three cups of oatmeal flour, or if thii 
cannot be obtained, substitute graham flour in its place, and one cup of 
com meal flour; to this add a dessertspoon evenly filled with salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, and lukewarm water sufficient to foi-m a batter; 
stir through the flour well four teaspoonfuls of baking powder before wetting; 
but these cakes are much better raised over night with yeast. 

French Pancakes. — To make French pancakes, take two eggs, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of flour, half a pint 
of new milk. Beat the eggs thoroughly and put them into a basin with the 
butter, which should be beaten to a cream; stir in the sugar and flour, and 
■when these ingredients are well mixed, stir in the milk, keep stirring and 
beating the mixture for a few minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sugar, 
and pile the pancakes on a dish, with a layer of preserves or marmalade 
between each. 

Egg Pancakes. — Beat six eggs light, add some salt, and one pint of 
flour, and stir in gradually enough milk to make a thin, smooth batter. 
Take a hot griddle or skillet, butter the bottom, and put in enough batter to 
run over it as thin as a dollar piece. When brown turn it. When done take 
it out on a dish; put a little butter, sugar and cinnamon over it. Fry another 
and treat likewise, and so on until a plate is piled. Send hot to table for 
dessert or breakfast or tea. 

Cream Pancakes. — Take half a pint of thick cream, two ounces of 
Bugar, and a teaspoonful of finely-powdered spice; beat the yelks of three 
eggs, add them to the cream; mix well together; simply rub your pan with 
a bit of frilure, make it hot, put in a small quantity of the batter, so as to 
have the pancakes as thin as possible. Serve them sprinkled over with gi-ated 
lemon peel and pounded loaf sugar. 

Corn Oricldle Cakes. — Two cups of coarse corn meal, two cups sour 
milk, or buttermilk, one egg, one tablespoonful graham flour, one teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in boiling water; make a batter of the meal, milk, eggs, 
and flour; if it is too thick add a little milk; then stir in the dissolved soda, 
beat well, and bake immediately on a hot giiddle; do not scorch the cakes. 

AVlieat Griddle Cakes. — One quart of sour milk, two even teaspoonfula 
of soda and one even teaspoonful of salt, flour enough to make a good batter; 
stir untU the lumps are broken; fry at once. 

To Make Batter Pancakes. — Well beat three eggs with a pound of 
flour, put to it a pint of milk and a little salt, fiy them in lard or butter, 
grate sugar over them, cut them in quarters, and serve them up. 

Breakfast Corn Cakes. —Two eggs, one cup sweet milk, two table- 
Bpoonfuls sweet cream, one-half cup sugar, three- fourths cup flour, two cups 
Indian meal, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

liemon Flapjacks. — One pint of milk, four eggs, juice of one lemon, a 
pinch of soda, and flour enough to make a light batter. Fry in hot lard. 
Serve with sugar and nutmeg. 

Delicions WaflBes. — One and one-half pint sweet milk; one teacup 
butter and lard, or one cup of either melted and put in the milk, then stir in 
the flour; next beat tlie yelks of four eggs, and add with two tableepoonfuie 



COOKING RECIPES. 279 

of yeast and beat very hard. Beat tlie whites last, and stir them in gently. 
The consistency of the batter should be about like griddle cakes, or so it will 
run easily in the irons. 

Hominy Fritters— Cook the hominy well; let it boil down pretty thick 
before using; add to one quart of boiled hominy about half a cup of sweet 
milk, one egg, a little salt, and flour enough to fry and turn without running; 
only enough lard required in frying to prevent burning; too much milk and 
flour toughens them. 

Omelet. — Comparatively few of our housekeepers dare attempt an 
omelet, but there is nothing difficult about it. The chief cause of failure 
lies in not having the spider hot enough, or in making an omelet too large 
for the pan. For a spider eight inches in diameter, not more than four eggs 
should be used. For an omelet of this size, use four eggs, one teaspoonful 
of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of cream, or in place of that, use milk. Beat 
the yelks alone to a smooth batter, add the milk, salt and pepper, and lastly, 
the well-beaten whites. Have the frying-pan very hot. Put in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, which should instantly hiss. Follow it quickly with the well- 
beaten mixture, and do not stir this after it goes in. Cook over a hot fire, 
and as the egg sets, loosen it fi'om the pan without breaking, to prevent 
burning. It should cook in about ten minutes. When the middle is set, it 
is a good plan to place the pan on the high grate in the oven to brown the 
top. This is not needed if you turn half of the omelet over upon itself 
before turning the whole from the pan upon a hot dish. Eat while hot. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Many use only eggs with butter and salt for this 
dish — for four eggs, one tablespooniul of butter. Melt the butt^ and turn 
in the beaten eggs, and stir quickly one or two minutes over a hot fire. A 
common practice is to increase the quantity without impairing the quality 
by adding milk — a small cup to six eggs, and a tablespoonful of butter 
with salt and pepper as preferred. Stir these ingredients over a hot fire, 
putting in the butter first, until the whole thickens. It should be soft and 
creamy when done. It is very fine served on toast. 

Eggs a la Creme. — Hard boil twelve eggs, and slice them in thin rings. 
In the bottom of a deep baking dish spread bits of butter, then a layer of 
bread crumbs, and then a layer of boiled eggs. Cover with bits of butter, 
and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Continue thus to blend these ingredients 
until the dish is full or nearly so. Crumbs over which bits of butter are 
spread, must cover all of these bits of eggs, and over the whole mixture a 
pint of sweet cream or sweet milk must be poured, before it is baked in a 
moderately heated oven. 

Eggs Newport Style. — ^Take one pint of bread crumbs and soak in one 
pint of milk. Beat eight eggs very light, and stir with the soaked crumbe, 
beating five minutes. Have ready a saucepan in which are two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, luoroughly hot, but not scorching; pour in the mixture, season 
with pepper and salt, as the mass is opened and stirred with the "scram- 
bling," which should be done quickly with the point of the knife, for three 
minutes, or until thoroughly hot. Serve on a hot platter, with squares of 
buttered toast. 

>.uired Egg8._8ix hard boiled eggs cut in two, take out the yelks and 
.iiash fine; then add two teaspoonfuls of butter, one of cream, two or three 



280 THE ITOVSEffOLJ}. 

drops of onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. Mix all thoroughly, and fill 
the eggs with the mixture; put them together. Then there will be a little of 
the filling left, to which add one well-beaten egg. Cover the eggs with this 
mixture, and then roll in cracker crumbs. Fry a light brown in boihng fat. 

Cupped Cggs. — Put a spoonful of high-seasoned brown gravy into each 
cup; set the cups in a saucepan of boiling water, and, when the gravy heats, 
drop a fresh egg into each cup; take off the saucepan, and cover it close till 
the eggs are nicely and tenderly cooked; dredge them with nutmeg and salt. 
Serve them in a plate covered with a napkin. 

Eggs a, la Mode. — Remove the skin from a dozen tomatoes, medium 
size, cut them up in a saucepan, add a little butter, pepper and salt; when 
sufficiently boiled beat up five or six eggs, and just before you serve, turn 
them into the saucepan with the tomato, and stir one way for two minutes, 
allowing them time to be well done. 

A Nice Dish for Breakfast. — ^Take some slices of bread cutting, off the 
crust; make a batter of three eggs and a pint of milk; soak the bread in it; 
put some butter in the frying pan; fry the slices of bread till brown. 

A Good Way to Ooolc Eggs. — Heat and grease the muffin irons; take 
a dozen eggs, break an egg in each muffin ring; put pepper, salt and a lump 
of butter on each; then put in the oven; aa soon as it is slightly browned 
remove with a fork; dish and send to the table hot. 

Breakfast Dish. — A nice dish for breakfast is made by taking bits of 
ham that have been left fi-om previous meals, cutting in small pieces, and 
heating them with two or three eggs stirred in. Pieces of beef may also b» 
used, and enjoyed if properly cooked. Chop them fine, season with butter, 
pepper and salt, and serve hot. The excellence of these dishes depends 
upon the way in Avhich you cook and season them. Anything which is 
•warmed over, in order to be palatable, must be nicely prepared. 

Potato Cakes for Breakfast. — Save from dinner a soup-plate of mashed 
potatoes, add to it half a saltspoonfal of pepper, the same of nutmeg, a 
little salt and the yelk of an egg; form into small cakes, put in a buttered 
baking-pan, brush the top with the white of an egg, and brown in a quick 
oven. * 

A Cheap Breakfast Dish. — Stale bread may be made into a palatable- 
dish for breakfast by dipping it in butter and then fi-ying in lard or butter. 
Make the batter with eggs — a teaspoonful of'coi'n starch mixed in a tabl»- 
epoonful of milk to each egg. A Uttle salt should be added. 



Soups. 

Asparagus Soup. — Three pounds of knuckle of veal will make a good 
strong stock. Put the veal toljoil with one and a half bunches of asparagus, 
a" gallon of water, and let it boil rapidly for three hours. Strain and return 
to the pot, addifig another bunch of asparagus, chopped fine, and boil 
twenty minutes. .Take a cup of milk, add a tablgspoonful of flour; let it all 
just come to a boil and serve. Season well with pepper and salt. 

» 

Potato Soup— Mash to a smooth paste one pound of good mealy pota- 
toes, which have been steamed or boiled very-dry; mix them by degrees in 



C0 0KI2TQ RECIPES.' 281 

two quarts of boiling water, iu which two ounces of tlic extract of meat liavo 
been previously dissolved, pass the soup through a strainer, set it again 
on the fire, add pepper and salt; let it boil for five uiiuutes, and be served 
with fried or toasted bread. Where the flavor is approved, two ounces of 
onions, minced and fried aUght bro^vB, may be added to the soup, and 
fttewed in it for ten minutes before it is sent to table. 

Green Pea Soup. — Pnt two quarts green peas into four quarts of water, 
boil for two hours, keeping the steam waste supphed by fresh boiling water 
—then strain them from the liquor, return that to the pot, rub the peaa- 
through a sieve, chop an onion fine, and a small sprig of mint, let it boil ten 
minutes, then stir a tablespoonful of flour into two of butter, and pepper and 
salt to taste; stir it smoothly into the boiling soup. Serve with well-buttered 
sippets of toasted bread. 

Cream-of-Rice Soup. — Two quarts of chicken stock (the water in which 
the fowl has been boiled will answer), one teacup of rice, a quart of cream 
or milk, a small onion, a stalk of c^ery, and salt and pepper to taste. Wash 
the rice carefully, and add to the chicken stock, onion and celery. Cook 
slowly two hours (it should hardly bubble). Put through a sieve; add sea- 
. eoning and the milk or cream, which has been allowed to come just to a boil. 
If milk, use also a tablespooaful of butter. 

CliicUeii Cream Soup — Boil an old fowl with an onion, in four quarts of 
cold water until there remains but two qiiarts. Take ' it out and let it get 
cold. Cut off the whole of the breast and chop very flue. Mix with the 
pounded yelks of two hard boiled eggs, and rub through a colander. Cool, 
skim, and strain the soup into a soup pot. Season; add the chicken and egg 
mixture, simmer ten minutes and pour into the tureen. Then add a small 
cup of boiling milk. 

Saturday Soup. — Collect all the bones which you have on hand, beef, 
veal, mutton or fowl, and boil together one day. The next morning remove 
the fat and put the soup on to heat. If you have a little cold hash or a few 
croquettes, put them in, and add a saucer full of canned corn, salt and 
pepper to taste, a few slices of onion, half a tcaspoonful of celery salt, one 
cup of stewed tomato. Boil all together, and just before serving put in a few 
drops of caramel to make it a good brown. 

Cauliflo^ver Soup. — Cauliflower and butter. Peel the cauliflowers, and 
put them in boiling water. When they are perfectly soft, strain the water off, 
ajid put them in the saucepan again with some butter. Moisten them with 
water or beef broth, and finish cooking them. Put some slices of fi-ied bread 
in the soup, and let the whole boil gently until it is thick; then serve it. 

_ Minute Soup. — Excellent for supper where something warm is desired, 
or for the little folks when they return from school " almost starved to 
death." Light bread or crackers crumbed in a bowl or deep dish, add a 
lump of butter, half a cup of sweet cream, plenty of pepper and salt; if fond 
of onions, cut a few slices thin and lay over the top and pour over plenty of 
boiling water, and you will be surprised to see how good it is. If not fond 
of onions, add an egg well beaten, after the. water is poured over, and stir 
well. 

. Veal Cream Soup. — Boil the remnants of a roast of veal until the meat 
foils iirom the bones; strain and cool. The next day put on to boil, with ft 



282 THE HOTTSEHOLD. 

8iiee of onion and one-third cf a cup of raw rice. Let it simmer slowly for 
an hour. Add salt and pepper to taste. Just before serving add one cup of 
rich milk, or cream if you have it, heated first in a separate dish. Serve 
with grated Parmesan cheese. 

Macaroni Soup. — Put into a stewpan of boiling water four ounces of 
macaroni, one ounce of butter, and an onion stuck with five cloves. When 
the macaroni has become quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it two 
quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, taking care that 
the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp; it will then be ready to serve 
up. It should then be sent to the table with grated Parmesan cheese. 

Beef Soup. — Three poiinds beef, three onions, three quarts water, one- 
half pint pearl barley. Boil beef slowly about an hour and a half, then add 
Chiions, sliced, and pearl barley (previously well washed and soaked half an 
hour) ; then boil about an hour longer. More water may be added, suffi- 
cient to have two quarts of soup when done. Season to taste with pepper. 

One Day Soup. — Half a can of tomatoes, five or six cold boiled or baked 
potatoes, half an onion, one stalk of celery or a few celery tops. Boil all to- 
gether until the vegetables are very soft. Put through a colander, add pep- 
per and salt, and a pinch of sugar. Just before serving pour in one cup of 
hot mUk with a pinch of soda dissolved in it. Sift over the top a few very 
dry bread crumbs. 

Mutton Soup. — Take the water that remains in the steamer after the 
mutton is cooked; there should be about three quarts; add one-half cup 
English split peas, nicely washed, one small onion, and cook gently three 
hours, adding a little more water if it cooks away much. Before taking £i-om 
the fire add salt and pepper to taste. 

Poultry Soup Take the carcass and bones of any poultry, turkey par- 
ticularly, and put in a kettle with plenty of water, and boil all the forenoon, 
filling up with hot water if necessary, and at dinner time you will find to 
your surprise a most savory soup; season with salt and pepper. 

Bean Soup Put one quart of beans to soak over night in lukewarm 

water. Put over the fire next morning with one gallon cold water and about 
two pounds salt pork. Boil slowly about three hours, add a little pepper. 
It is better to shred into it a head of celery. Strain through a colander and 
serve with slices of lemon to each guest. 

Julienne Soup—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a soup 
kettle; stir it until melted; fry three onions and then put iu three quarts of 
good stock, salt, pepper, mace and celery seed, two chopped carrots, two 
chopped turnips, a pint of dried peas that have been soaked in water over 
night. Boil two hours. 

Codfish Soup Boil a teacup of codfish in three pints of water for twenty 

minutes; add three tablespooufuls of flour and a little hot water; boU up 
once; add two pints of milk, let it boil; add three eggs. When served in a 
tureen, add one poached egg for each person. 

Vegetable Soup. -Take one turnip, one potato and one onion; let them 
be sUced, and boiled in one quart of water for an hourj add as mucn salt 
and parsley as is agreoable, and pour the whole on a slice of toasted bread. 



Cooking recipes, 283 

Tomato Sonp Pour a quart of boiling \^ter over a pint of canned to- 
matoes. Let them boil for au hour, or until they become soft. Strain and 
return to the fire. Stir in a teaspoonful of soda; this will make it effervesce, 
and while it is still foaming add a pint of boiling milk, a large piece of but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Thicken slightly with cracker-dust and serve immedi- 
ately. 

Summer Soup — Eight potatoes boiled soft, piece of butter size of two 
eggs; boil one quart of milk and one quart of water together, and pour boil- 
ing hot on the soft potatoes; strain, and then boil half an hour in the milk 
and water. 

Plain Soup — Boil fresh beef or mutton bones three hours, salt; to one 
gallon liquid add one teacup washed rice, two or three cloves, boil one-half 
hour, and it is done. 

Okra. Sonp. — To five quarts of water and a shin of beef add four dozen 
okras, shced thin, and a few tomatoes; boil from six to seven hours, and add 
salt and red pepper to taste. 

Meats and. Poultry. 
iPotted Beef.— Choose lean beef; rub it over with saltpetre, and let it lie 
twelve hours; salt it well with a mixture of bay salt and common salt. Put 
it into a jar of the requisite size, immerse it in water, and let it remain four 
or five days. Then take it out, wipe it dry, and rub it with ground black 
pepper; lay it in a pan, cover it with a crust, and bake seven hours. Take 
it out when done and let it cool; then pick out the sldns and strings, and 
beat it in a strong mortar, adding seasoning of mace, cloves, and nutmeg, in 
powder, and a little melted butter and flour. Press it closely into pots, and 
pour over it clarified butter. 

Fi-encH Beefsteak. — Cut the steak two-thirds of an inch thick from a 
fillet of beef; dip into melted fresh butter, lay them on a heated gridiron and 
broil over hot coals. When nearly done sprinkle pepper and salt. Have 
ready some parsley, chopped fine and mixed with softened butter. Beat 
them together to a cream, and pour into the middle of the dish. Dip each 
steak into the butter, turning them over, and lay them round on the platter. 
If you desire, squeeze a few drops of lemon over, and serve veiy hot. 

An Excellent Dish. — A dish equal to the best steak and cheap enough 
for any man, is prepared from a shank of beef with some meat on it. Have 
the bone well broken; wash carefully to remove bits of bone; cover with 
cold water; watch when the boiUng begins and take off the scum that rises. 
Stew five or six hours till the muscles are dissolved; break the meat small 
with a fork — far better than chopping — put it in a bread pan, boil down tha 
gravy till in cooling it will turn to a stiff jelly. Where this is done, gelatine 
is quite superfluous. Add salt, and, if liked, other seasoning, and pour it 
hot upon the meat; stir together and set aside over night, when it will cut 
into handsome mottled slices for breakfast or supper. 

Chicken Viennese Style. — Procure two very young spring chickens, 
pluck and draw them carefully, without injuring the skin. Take a very 
sharp knife and cut each exactly in two; sprinkle with a httle pepper and 
Bait, rub a little fresh salad-oil over each piece, and thoroughly egg aud 



284 TITE nOTJSEirOLI). 

Ijioadcrumb them. Hub a little suet on a clean gridiron, place it over ft 
very clear fire, Tivith the four pieces of chicken, broil them very carefully • 
uptil of a nice brown color; then having ready a hot dish, with four pieces of 
toasted bread on it, lay half a chicken on each piece of toast, and pour over 
all a good white sauce, which must be made with a little raw cream. 

CliicUeii Patties. — Chicken patties are made by picking the meat from 
a cold chicken and cutting it in small pieces. Put it in a saucepjin with a 
little water or milk, butter, pepper and salt. Thicken with a little flour and 
with the yelk of one egg. Line some patty-pans with crust, not rich and yet 
not tough, rub them over with the white of the egg, and bake. When done, 
fill with the chicken, and send to the table hot. Cut out round cakes of the 
orust for the tops of the little pies, and bake on a common baking tin. It is 
very little trotible to do this, and the pleasure afforded each child by having 
a little chicken pie of his own amply pays the right-minded cook. 

Sinotliered Cliicliens. — Cut the chickens in the back,- lay them flat in a 
dripping-pan, with one cup of water; let them stew in the oven until they , 
begin to get tender; take them out and season with salt and pepper; rub 
together one and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful butter; 
Bpread all over the chickens; put back in the oven, baste well, and when 
tender and nicely browned take out of the dripping-pan; mix with the gravy 
in the pan one cup of thickened milk with a Uttle floiir; put on the stove and 
let it scald up well and pour over th« chickens; parsley, chopped fine, is a 
nice addition to the gravy. 

Vii-ginla Pi-ied Cliicken. — Dice and fry one half pound of salt pbrk 
until it is well rendered. Cut up a young chicken, soak for half an hour in. 
salt and water, wipe dry, season with pepper, roll in flour, and try in hot 
fat until each piece is of a rich brown color. Take up and set aside m a 
warming closet. Pour into the gravy one cup of milk — half cream is better; 
thicken with a spoonful of flour, and add a spoonful of butter and chopped 
parsley; boil up and pour over the hot chicken, or, if preferred, serve with- 
out the cream gravy, with bunches of fried j^arsley. Plain boiled rice should 
accompany this. 

Beef Rolls. — The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, seasoning to taste 
of salt, pepper, and minced herbs; puff paste. Mince the beef tolerably 
fine, with a small amount of its own fat; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, 
md chopped herbs; put the whole into a roll of puff paste and bake for half 
an hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large. Beef patties may 
be made of cold meat by mincing and seasoning beef as directed above, and 
baking in a rich puff paste in patty tins. 

Veal Cutlets. — The cutlets should be cut as handsomely as possible, 
and about three-quarters of an inch in thickness: they should, before cook- 
ing, bo well beaten with the blade of a chopper, if a proper beater be not at 
hand; they should then be fried a light brown and sent up to table, gar- 
iiished with parsley, and rolls of thin-sliced,.nicely-fried bacon; they are 
with advantage coated previously to cooking with the yelk of an egg, and 
tlredged with bread crumbs. 

A la Mode.Cliiclten. — Pick and draw a fine young chicken, wash and 
•wipe dry and season with salt and pepper. Make a nice pastry, roll out an 
inch thick; wrap the chicken m it, tie in a cloth, and boil an hour or two, ao- 



COOKING RECIPES. 2S5 

cording to the tenderness of the foTvl. Make a dressing of one tablespoonful 
of flour, one of butter, and sufficient boihng water to make a smooth paste. 
Place the- chicken on a dish, and pour the dressing over it, garnish with 
parsley or celery leaves and a hard-boiled egg cut in slices. 

Cun-y.-, Take cold chicken, turkey, or cold lamb, cut it in small pieces, 
and put in a fi-ying-pan with about a pint or more boiling water; let it stew 
a few moments, then take the meat out, thicken the gravy with a little flour, 
add a teaspoonful of curry powder, pepper and salt to taste, and let it boil 
up once; have some rice boiled whole and dry; put it around the outside of 
the platter, and in the center put the meat; throw the gravy over the meat, 
not the rice, and serve. 

Tripe a la. Lyonaise witli Tomatoes — This economical dish, which 
is in the reach of every family, is very fine. Take two pound^ of dressed 
and boiled tripe, cut into small strips two inches long and put into a sauce- 
pan. Parboil and drain off the first water; chop a small onion fine and let 
all stew twenty minutes; add half a teacup of thickening and then stir in 
half a can of tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper. This dish has become 
very popular in all the hotels throughout the country. 

Boiled Com Beef. — Thia is much improved if cooked in plenty of water, 
and when thoroughly done, left until cold in the same water that it was 
boiled in. Lift the pot off the fire, and let pot, water, and meat grow cold 
together. This will make it much more moist and juicy, besides tender and 
sweet, than if taken out hot and all the moisture in it dried out by standing 
and steaifiing until it grows cold. Hams, tongues, etc., should be cooked in 
the same way. 

To Cook a Rabbit. — When nicely dressed lay it in a pan and cover with 
cold water, and add half a teacup salt and soak over night; in the morning 
drain off water and cover the rabbit inside and otit with dry corn meal, and 
let stand till time to cook for dinner; then rinse, cut up and parboil in slightly 
salted water until tender; take out, roll in corn meal and fry a nice brown; 
an onion sliced and laid over it while parboiling is an improvement for 
those who hke the flavor. 

Baked Ham. — Make" a thick paste of flour (not boiled) and cover the 
ham with it, bone and all; put in a pan on a spider or two muffin ilugs, or 
anything that will keep it an inch from the bottom, and bake in a hot oven. 
If a small ham, fifteen minutes for each poixnd; if large, twenty minutes. 
The oven should be hot when put in. The paste forms a hard crust around 
the ham and the skin comes cfl' with it. Try thia, and you will never cook 
a ham in any other way. 

. Sauce Piquante. — Put a bit of butter, A\'ith two sUced onions, into a 
Btowpan, with a carrot, a parsnip, a little thyme, laurel, basil, two cloves, 
two shallots, a clove of garUc, and some parsley; turn the whole over the 
fire until it be well colored; then %hake in some flour, and moisten it with 
Bome broth and a spoonful of vinegar. Let it boil over a slow fire; skim, and 
etrain it through a sieve. Season it with salt an.d pepper, and serve it with 
any dish requii-ed to be heightened. 

Minced "Veal awd Eggs — Take some remnants of roast or braised real, 
trim pff all browned parts, and mince it very finely; fry a, shallot, or ooioQ, 



:286 THE nOUSEHOLB. 

chopped small, in plenty of butter; when it is a light straw-color add a large 
pinch of flour and a little stock, then the minced meat, with chopped parsley, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste; mix well, add more stock if necessary, 
and let the mince gradually get hot by the side of the fire; lastly, add a few 
drops of lemon-juice. Serve with sippets of bread fried in butter round, and 
the poached eggs on top. 

Boned CUicUeii. — This is nice for picnics. First take out the breast- 
bone; then remove the back with a sharp knife, and next the leg bones; keep 
the skin unbroken, and push within it the meat of the legs. Fill the body 
with alternate layers of parboiled tongue, veal force-meat, the liver of the 
fowl, thin sUces of bacon, or aught else of good flavor which will give a 
marbled appearance to the fowl when »«rved; then sew up and truss as 
usual. 

Pigeon Pie. — Border a dish with fine puff paste, lay a veal cutlet (or 
tender rump steak) cut in thin slices at the bottom of the dish; season with 
salt, cayenne, nutmeg, or pounded mace. Put as many young pigeons aa 
the dish will contain, with seasoning as above, and in the interstices the 
yelks of some hard-boiled eggs; put some butter over them, fill up with 
good gr.avy, cover with paste, glaze with the yelk of an egg, and bake. 

Mutton Cutlets in tlie Portngiiese Way. — Cut the chops, and half 
fry them with sliced shallot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay leaves; 
season with pepper and salt; then lay a force-meat on a piece of white paper, 
put the chops on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the 
bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Eobert; or, 
as the seasoning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. 

A Brown Sauce. — For one quart. Stir gently in a stewpan over a slow 
fire, till of a light golden color, two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour, 
then add two pints of stock; stir till perfectly smooth; add four teaspoonfuls 
(one and one-third ounce) of the extract of meat and a sprig of marjoram, 
one of thyme, and two of parsley; boil a quarter of an hour slowly; strain, 
season, and it is fit for use. 

Pried Meat Cakes. — Chop lean raw meat, as you would for sausage, 
season with salt, pepper, and onion; shape into flat cakes, dip the cakes in 
egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in dripping. Any meat may be used for this 
dish, but it is i^articularly nice of beef, and the finest portions need not be 
put to this use. Drain on a strainer; have ready a dish of nicely mashed 
potatoes, on which put your beef-cakes, and serve. 

Veal Scollop. — Put a layer of cold chopped veal in a buttered dish; sea- 
son 3vith salt, pepper and butter; then strew over it a layer of finely pow- 
dered cracker, and pour over a little milk to moisten it; add another layer 
of veal and so on. When the dish is full wet well with gravy and wai'm 
water, cover with a tin plate and bake. Kemovo the cover ten minutes be- 
fore it is done to let it brown. 

TUicU Gravy — Melt in a stewpan a iDiece of butter the size of a walnut; 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour; mix well; then add one pint of hot wat«r, 
half a teaspoonful of the extract, and sauce to taste. This will be found 
suitable for poultry, or wherever thick gravy is required. The above may 
bo made richer by using a larger proportion of extract. 



■ qOOKTNG RECIPES. ffl? 

Hashed Fowl. — Take the meat from a cold fowl and cut it in small 
pieces. Put half a pint of well-flavored stock into a stewpan, add a littlo 
salt, pepper and nutmeg, and thicken with some flour and butter; let it boil, 
then put in the pieces of fowl to warm; after stewing sufficiently, servo with 
some poached eggs laid on the hash, with a sprig of parsley in the center, 
and garnish round the plate with pieces of fried bread. 

Cliickeu Pried. — Cut some cold chicken into pieces and rub each with 
yelks of eggs; mix together some bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated 
lemon-peel and parsley; cover the pieces of chicken with this and fry them. 
Thicken some good gravy by adding flour, and put into it cayenne pepper, 
mushroom powder or ketchup, and a little lemon juice, and serve this with 
the chicken as sauce. 

To Remove Fishy Taste from Game — Pare a fresh lemon very care- 
fully without breaking the thin white inside skm, put inside a wild duck and 
keep it there forty-eight hours, and all the fishy taste so disagreeable in 
wild fowl will be i-emoved. Every twelve hours remove the lemon and re- 
place with a fresh one. A lemon thus prepared will absorb impleasant 
flavors fr-om all meats and game. 

Chicken Fritters. — Cut into neat pieces some tender cold chicken and 
let them stand awhile in a mixture of lemon juice, salt and pepper. Make a 
batter of milk, egg, flour and salt, stir the chicken into it, and then fry in 
boiling lard, putting one bit of chicken in each spoonful of batter. Serve 
very hot, taking care to draui the fat off well. Garnish vrith parsley. 

Cliiclcen Croquette. — Two sweet breads boiled; one teacup of boiled 
chicken, hashed; one boiled onion, one teacup of boiled bread and milk, 
quarter pound butter, salt and pepper. Chop chicken and sweet breads 
veiy fine, mix in well the other ingredients, shape into rolls, then dip in the 
yelk of an egg, then in cracker dust; drop into boiling lard and fry brown. 

New AVay of Cooking Chickens. — A new way of cooking chickens is 
to parboil them and then drop them into hot lard, a la doughnuts, and fry a 
few minutes. This will serve to make variety in the bill of fare, but will not 
wholly take the place of the favorite method of browning in butter, '^ice 
gravy may be ma? ft by adding milk and flour to the butter in which chickens 
have been fried. 

Frencli ChicB en Pie — A tender chicken cut in joints, half pou-.:d salt 
pork cut in small I'lieces, boil the two together till nearly tender in a little 
water; line a deep dish with pie-paste, put in the meat, season with salt, 
pepper and chopped parsley, put in a little water and cover over with the 
pie-paste, which shoi'ld be rich; bake forty minutes. 

Pickled Tongue. — Tlif> remains of pickled tongues are very nice inter- 
mixed and placed in a pan and pressed, when they will turn out resembling 
collared meat. A Uttle thick jelly may be poured into the pan with them. 
Slices of cold tongue may be warmed into any kind of savory sauce and laid 
in a pile in the center of a dish, the sauce being poured over them, 

A Delicious Beefsteak. — Have your frying pan very hot, wipe ''he steak 
dry, place in it and cover tightly; tarn frequently and keep covered- When 
done, add to the gravy one tablespoonful hot coffee, a good size lump oi 
butter; salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the steak and serve hoi 



288. THE rfOUSEUOLB. 

A Veal Omelet. — A veal omelet is prepared by chopping a little cold 
veal and adding to it the beaten egg. Cold boiled ham may be chopped and 
added in the same way; also veal and ham together, which is very nice. 
Three or four tablespoonfuls of meat ai'e enough. A little chopped parsley 
is sometimes added, but herbs ^ro not now- so much used in cooking as 
formerly, though they are au addition to the flavor. 

How tQ 'Pickle Tongues..^A good-sized tongue requires to boil at 
least three hours. It is a good plan to soak it over night in cold water. To 
took it, put it on in cold water and let it come slowly to the boil. Some 
cooks change the water when it is half done; if this course is taken, be sure 
that che fresh water is boiling before the tongue is placed in it. 

Roast 1»artridge. — Lard them well with- fat pofk; tie the legs down to 
the rump, leaving the feet on; while cooking, baste them well with but- 
ter. They require twenty-five or thirty minutes to cook. To make a gravy, 
put the drippings into a saucepan with a piece of butter about the size of an 
egg, and a little flour and hot water. Let it boil up once. 

To Dress Cold Fowl. — Take the remains of a cold fowl, remove the skin, 
then the bones, leaving the flesh in as large pieces as possible; dredge with 
flour, and fry a Ught brown in butter; toss it up in a good gravy well sea- 
soned and thickened with butter rolled in flour; serve hot with bits of toasted 
bread. . . . 

Bread Sauce for Partridges. — Cut up an onion, and boil it in milk 
until it is quite soft; then strain the milk "into a cup of stale breadcrumbs, 
and let it stand one hour. Then put it into a saucepan, with about two 
ounces of butter, a httle pepper, salt, mace and the boiled onion. Boil it all 
up together, and serve it in a sauce-tureen. 

Stewed Liver. — Cut up into slices half a pouiid of calf's liver and the 
same quantity of fat bacon; put first, a layer-of bacon at the bottom of a pie- 
dish, then one of liver; sprinkle wij:h pepp^- and salt, add one medium- 
sized onion and one apple, both cut up; cover down and let it stew gently in 
the oven for about one hour and a quarter. No water is required. 

How to Make Meat Tender. — Cut the steaks the day before into slices 
about two inches thick, rub them over with a small quantity of soda; wash 
off next morning, cut into suitable thickness, and cook as you choose. The 
same process will answer for fowls, legs of mutton, etc.. Try-, all who love 
delicious, tender dishes of meat. 

A iVice Supper Disli.- -Grate or mince lean ham very fine; mis with it 
the yelk of au egg and some cream; season with a very little niitmeg. Have 
ready some small slices of bread half an inch thick; toast them a delicate 
brown; then, Avhile hot, spread the meat over it; break the yelk "of an egg 
over Ihe top and brown sUghtly in the oven, and send to table hot. 

Spiced Veal. — One pound of veal,-chopped very fine; season with two 
well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful" of butter, teaspoo«aful of salt and saga 
each. -*Put it into a cake-pan, and bake about-an hour. Slice when cold. 

Blint Sauce toy Iiamb. — Two full tablespoons of very finely-chopped 
young mint, one 6f poundad and sifted loaf-sugar, and six of the best via©* 
gar. Stir all these ingredients together until the eugar ia digsclvecU 



. COOKING RECIPES. 283 

Deltcions Plavoi- to Lamb. — To give a delicious flavor to lamb which 
is to be eaten cold, put in the water in which it is boiled vhole cloves and 
long sticks of cinnamon. To one leg of lamb allow one small handful of 
cloves, two or three sticks of cinnamon. If the lamb is to be roasted, boil 
the cloves and cinnamon in water, and baste the lamb with it. 

Fillet of Veal Boiled. — Bind it round with tape, put it in a floured 
cloth, and in cold water; boil very gently two hours and a half, or if sim- 
mered, which is, perhaps, the better way, four hours will be taken; it may 
be sent to table in bechamel or with oyster-sauce. Care should be taken to 
keep it as white as possible. 

Cold Tongue on Toast. — Take cold smoked tongue or ham; mince or 
grate fine, mix it with the beaten yelks of eggs and cream or milk, with a 
dash of cayenne pepper; prepare thin, small, square pieces of buttered 
toast; place on a heated platter, putting a spoonful of the meat on each 
piece; cover with dish cover, and send to table hot; for breakfast or lunch. 

Veal Sausages. — Take fat bacon and lean veal in equal quantities, with 
a handful of sage, a httle salt, pepper, and, if at hand, an anchovy. Let all 
be chopped and beaten well together, floured, rolled, and fried. Veal sau- 
sages are better suited for persons whose digestion is not very strong than 
those made of pork. 

Excellent Tea Dish. — A deUcioiis dish for tea or lunch is made thus: 
On a very fine wire gridiron (or one made of wire net used for screens), 
place some shoes of salt pork, cut as thin as possible; on each slice lay a 
good sized oyster, or two small ones; broU and serve hot. This, with coffee, 
crisp toast, with chopped cabbage, makes an almost ideal lunch. 

A Good Breakfast Disli. — A. good dish for breakfast is made by chop- 
ping pieces of cold boUed or fried ham just as fine as it is possible to chop 
them; mix them with cold mashed potatoes, an egg or two, a little butter or 
cream, or both, form into balls, flour them, melt a httle butter in a frying 
pan, and bro\vn the balls. Serve hot. 

Mutton Pie. — Take the mutton chops from the forequarter, season high- 
ly with pepper and salt and put into a baking dish with alternate layers of 
apples, pared and sliced, and a httle sprinkling of chopped onion. Put a 
crust of not very rich pastry over the top, and bake for twenty or thirty min- 
utes in a hot oven. 

To Cook a Duck. — To cook a duck satisfactorily, boil it first until ten- 
der; this can be detei*mined by trying the wing, as that is always a tough 
part of a fowl. When tender, take it out, rinse it in clean water, stuff and 
put in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour, basting it often. 

Pressed Cliicken — Boil two chickens tender, take out the bones and 
chop the meat fine, add a small handful of bread crumbs, season to taste, 
■with butter, pepper, salt, and a httle sage; pour in enough of the Uquor to 
make it moist; mold in any shape you choose, and, when cold, cut in shces. 

Scrambled Mntton.—Three cups of cold boiled mutton chopped fine, 
three tablespoonfuls of hot water, one-fourth of a cup of butter; put on th« 
Btove, and when hot break in four eggs and stir constantly until thick. Sea- 
son with pepper wd HsAi, 



290 THE nOUSEROLD. 

Tlie Riglit "Way Ut Cook Steals — Broil Steak without salting. Salt 
draws the juice in cooking. It is desirable to keep this in if possible. Cook 
over a hot fire, turning frequently, searing on both sides. Place on a platter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Boiled Tongue. — If the tongue is not hard, soak it not more than three 
honrs. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of herbs; 
let it come to a boil, skim and simme*- gently ixntil tender, peel off the skin 
and garnish it with parsley and lemon. 

Frizzled Beef. — Chijj the beef as thin as paper with a very sharp knife. 
Melt in a frymg-pan butter the size of an egg, stir the beef about in it for 
two or three minutes, dust in a little flour, add half a teacup of rich cream, 
boil and serve in a covered dish. 

Roasted Tongue. — Soak for two hours; sprinkle salt over it, and drain 
in a colander; this should be done with fresh tongues before using; boil it 
slowly for two hours; take off the skin, roast, and baste with butter. Serve 
with brown gravy and currant jelly sauce. 

Spiced Beef. — Five pounds of the shank, boiled five hours, with celery 
seed. Drain off the gelatine, and then chop the meat very fine, add pepper 
and salt to taste, and put it into a cloth on a platter. Cover with the cloth 
and press it. 

Broiled Ham. — Cut into thin slices, pour boiling water over them, let- 
ting it remain ten minutes. Wipe the ham a little and place it on the grid- 
iron; this takes out the salt. Ham that has been boiled broils nicer than the 
uncooked meat. 

Liiver Fried as Cutlets. — Que egg to one pound of liver; have the Uver 
cut thin; scald; wipe dry with a towel; beat up the egg; dip the liver in the 
egg, then into powdered cracker; fry brown. This is very nice; serve with 
tomatoes, if preferred. 

A Good Way to Coolc Liver. — A good way to cook liver is to fry it in 

butter, with an onion cut in small pieces scattered over it. Cook slowly; 
when done, add a lump of butter and a little flour; stir well, and turn over 
the liver. Serve with Saratoga potatoes. 



Fish. 



Oyster Omelet. — Twelve oysters, if large, double the number if small; 
six eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper; chop the oysters very fine; beat the yelks and whites of the 
eggs separately, as for nice cake, the whites until they stand iu a heap. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and heat while you are mix- 
ing the omelet. Stir the milk in a deep dish, with the yelks and seasoning. 
Next add the chopped oysters, heating them well as you add gradually. 
When thoroughly mixed pour in melted butter, and finally whip in the 
whites as lightly as possible. Have the butter in the pan very hot, and pour 
in the mixture. Do not stir it, but when it begins to stiffen, slip a broad- 
bladed knife around the sides and cautiously under the omelet, that the 
butter may reach every part. As soon as the center is fairly set, and the 
bottom brown, turn out into a hot dish. Lay the dish bottom upward over 



, coo KINO RECIPES. 291 

ttie frying-pan, which must be turned upside down dexterously. This 
brings the brown side of the omelet uppermost. This is a delicious break- 
fast or supper omelet. 

Fish CUowder. — Take a cod or haddock weighing about four pounds; 
skin it, cut in small pieces and wash in cold water; take one-fourth pound 
(scant) of salt pork, cut in pieces and fry brown in the kettle in which the 
chowder is to be made; pare and slice five medium-sized potatoes and one 
small onion; place a layer of potato and onion in the kettle', then a layer of 
fish, dredge in salt, pepper and flour; put iu alternate layers until all is 
used; add hot water enough to cover, and boU gently thirty minutes; add 
one pint of milk, six crackers split and dipped in cold water; then cook ten 
minutes longer. 

Spiced Oysters—For 200 oysters, take one pint vinegar, one grated nut- 
meg, eight blades of whole mace, three dozen whole cloves, one teaspoonful 
salt, two teaspoonfuls whole allspice, and as much red pepper as will lie on 
the point of a knife; put the oysters, with their liquor, into a large earthen 
vessel; add vinegar and all other ingredients; stir well together and set 
over a slow fire; keep covered; stu- them several times to the bottom; as 
soon as they are well scalded they are done; put into jars; if a larger quan- 
tity is made it can be kept for a long time; of course these are eaten cold. 

Fried Oysters — Use for frying the largest and best oysters you can get. 
Take them from the liquor, lay them in rows upon a clean cloth and press 
another lightly upon them to absorb the moisture; have ready some beaten 
eggs and some cracker dust. Heat enough butter iu the pan to cover the 
oysters. Dip each one in the egg first, then into the cracker, rolling it over, 
that it may be completely covered. Drop them into the frying-pan and fry 
quickly to a light brown. Do not let them remain in the pan an instant after 
they are done. Serve dry, on a hot dish. 

Bi-oiled Oysters, — Choose large, fat oysters; Avipe them very dry; 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and broil upon one of the gridirons 
■with close bars, sold for the purpose; you can dredge the oysters with flour 
if you wish to have them brown, and many pei'sons fancy the juices are bet- 
ter preserved in that way; butter the gridiron well, and let your fire be hot 
and clear; broil quickly and dish hot, putting a bit of butter upon each 
oyster as it is taken from the gridiron. 

Codtisli witU Cream. — Pick out carefully in flakes all the flesh from 
the remnants of some boiled codfish; melt a piece of butter ia a saucepan, 
and add to it a lai'ge pinch of flour and a gill of milk or cream, with pepper, 
salt, and grated matmeg to taste, also the least bit of cayenne; stir well; put 
in the fish, and gently shake it iu this sauce until quite warm. If the com- 
position be too dry, add a little milk or cream; then add, off the fire, the 
yelks of two eggs, beaten up with a little mUk, and serve. 

Broiled Salmon. — The middle sUce of salmon is the best. Sew up 
neatly in a mosquito-net bag, and boil a quarter of an hour to the pound in 
hot, salted water. When done, unwrap with care, and lay upon a hot dish, 
taking care not to break it. Have ready a large cup of drawn butter, very 
rich, in wb'ch has been stirred a tableapoonful of minced parsley and the 
juice of a lemon. Pour half upon the salmon, and serve the rest in a boat. 
Oarnisb with p&relejr and sliced eggs. 



292 THE EOXrSEBOLv* 

Oyster Patty. — Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, drain 
them perfectly dry, and flour and fry them lightly in butter. Take each 
oyster separately with a fork and put them into*a stewpan, strain the liquor 
in which you have scalded the oysters into the butter and flr>nr that remains 
in the frying pan, stir well together, and season with a little pc^^per, salt and 
a little juice of lemon; pour the whole on the oysters, and lot them stew. 
When nearly done thicken with a small quantity of butter rolled in flour, 
and fill your patties. 

Salmon Croquettes. — Mix the fish thoroughly with an equal quantity of 
boiled rice, adding a little melted butter, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Mold into small sausage-shaped forms, and roll them first in finely-pow- 
dered crackers, then in beaten egg yelk, and again in the cracker crumbs. 
Fry in hot fat like doughnuts. A palatable, nutritious food, easily prepared, 
and as the egg prevents the entrance of much fat they are readily digestible. 

Clams -witU Cream. — Chop fifty small clams, not too fine, and season 
■with pepper and salt. Put into a stewpan butter the size of an egg, and 
when it bubbles sprinkle in a toaspoouful of flour, which cook a few minutes; 
stir gradually into it the clam liquor, then the clams, which stew about two 
or three minutes; then add a cup of boiling cream, and serve immediately. 

Baked Bluefisli. — Chop up an onion and fry it in butter; then add half 
a pound of soft, fine bread crumbs, a tablespoonful of fresh butter, a little 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon. After cooking ». 
very little, take it up and add a well-beaten egg. Stuff your bluefish with 
this. Serve the fish with a drawn butter sauce having a little finely-chopped 
pickled asparagus in it. 

Deviled Crabs.— Boil' your hard crabs, and takeout the meat and mince 
it. Grate two ounces of bread crumbs and mix with them two hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine, some cayenne, salt, and lemon juice. Add all this to six 
ounces of the crab meat, make moist and rich with cream, clean the shells, 
fill them with the mixture, and put some bread crumbs over the top, and 
bronn in a hot oven. 

Crab Sauce. — Mix about two or three ounces of butter with a little flour, 
and melt it in about a pint of milk. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes. . 
Pick the meat from a fine boiled crab, chop it into small pieces, season it 
with a little cayenne, powdered mace and salt, and stir it into the melted 
butter and milk. Then warm it gradually and simmer for a minute or two, 
but do not let it boil. 

Panned Clams. — Allow one patty-pan with nearly upright sides to each 
person. Cut stale bread in rounds to fit the bottom of each pan, butter it, 
and wet with clam liquor. Fill each pan nearly full of clams, pepper and 
salt them, and lay a bit of butter on each. Put them in a dripping-pan, 
cover with another, and bake till the edges curl — about ten minutes. Serve 
in the pans. 

Codfisli Balls. — Boil and pick the codfish. Boil potatoes, mash well, 
mix with them a piece of butter, season with pepper and salt, and add cream 
enough to moisten them. Mix codfish and potatoes together in like pi-opor- 
tion, and add three or four chopped hard-boiled eggs, and a little fiijply- 
loiaeed onion. Make into cakes and fry in boiling lard. 



COOKING RF.CIPES. 293 

Oyster Toast. — Toast white bread nicely, then place oysters with their 
juice on the fire; as soon as boiling remove, take out the oysters, set the juice 
back again and stir in a large tablespoonful of butter rubbed with a little 
flour, let this boil five minutes, remove, then add the yelks of two eggs, 
pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and the oysters, which have been 
pounded fine; use the mixture to spread over toast; set in the oven to heat 
thoroughly. 

HoAv to Cook Clams. — Take one dozen clams — open, saving juice and 
meat — chop the meat fine. Take six eggs, mixing the whites and the yelks; 
then mix the clams (juice and meat) with the eggs, and cook over a slow 
fire, Stirling constantly till the mixture has the consistency of stiff cream. 
Take off and serve — a dish tit for a king. 

Fisli Ci-oquettes. — Take one pint of any cold white fish, flake it very 
fine, remove all bones and pieces of skin; season it highly with salt, pepper, 
cayenne and onion juice. Let the taste decide, but remember that fish needs 
more than meat. Moisten the fish with one cup thick cream sauce. 

Clam Calces. — Make a batter of one egg, beaten light, with one cup of 
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, and a little salt; beat well together and 
then stir in lightly three dozen clams that have been washed and drained, 
and drop in hot fat with a tablespoonful of batter, and one or two clama in 
each spoonful, fry brown and drain in a colander. Serve immediately. 

Cornish Fisli Pie. — In Cornwall almost every- kind of fish is put into a 
pie, well floured over, with a little chopped parsley and onions, a little pep- 
per a,nd salt, some broth or water, and a nice short crust over it; there is a 
hole left in the crust at the top, and through this hole some cream is poured 
in just before serving. 

Pickled Oysters. — Open the oysters, and take each one away from its 
liquor; boil some vinegar, equal quantities, with the liquor of the oysters; 
put in some whole mace; drop the oysters into the boiling Uquor, and lift 
them speedily from the fire; then bottle them. This method keeps the oys- 
ters from shriveling. 

To Broil Smoked Halibut.—Select hahbut of a dark-brown color, the 
thinnest and hardest; soak twenty-four hours in cold water, with the flesh 
side down; only cover -with water; broil over hot coals; serve with a little 
butter, or poach eggs and dish them with the hahbut as if for ham. 

Clam Soup. — Twenty-five clams, opened raw and chopped fine; add 
three quarts of water; boil them one-half hour, then add a pint of milk, one 
onion chopped fine, thicken with butter and flour, beat three eggs in the 
tureen, and pour your broth over them boiling hot. 

Broiled Mackerel. — Split down the back and clean; be careful to scraps 
all the thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and lay on a greased grid- 
iron; broil on one side brown, and then on the other side. The side that has 
the skin on should be turned to the fire last. 

Oyster Ma.caroni._Boil macaroni in a cloth, to keep it straight. Put a 
layer in a dish seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper, then a layer of oys- 
ters, alternate, until the dish is full. Mix some grated bread with a beaten 
•gg. Spread over the top and bake. 



294 TnP. HOUSFITOLD. 

Oyster Loaf. — Cut a round piece five inches across from the top of a 
nicely-baked round loaf of bread; remove the crumbs, leaving the cruet 
half an inch thick; make a rich oyster stew and put it in the loaf in layers, 
sprinkled ■with bread crumbs; place the cover over the top, cover the loaf 
with the beaten yelk of an egg and put it in the oven to glaze; serve very hot. 

Sauce Piquante for Fish. — Make a bro%vn sauce by frying a chopped 
onion in a little butter, adding a large teaspoouful of flour and a tumbler of 
stock. Simmer a little, strain, and put in a teaspoouful of vinegar, one of 
chopped cucumber pickle, and one of capers. 

Fisli Sauce.- -Take half a pint of milk and cream together, two eggs, 
well beaten, salt, a little pepper, and the juice of half a lemon; put it over 
the fire, and stir it constantly until it begins to thicken. 



Vegetables. 

Boiling Potatoes. — To boil a potato well requires more attention than 
is usually given. They should be well washed and left standing in cold 
water an hour or two, to remove the black liquor with which they are im- 
pregnated, and a brackish taste they would otherwise have. They should 
not be pared before boiling; they lose much of the starch by so doing, and 
are made insipid. Put them iuto a kettle of clear cold water, with a Uttle 
salt, cover closely, and boil rapidly, using no more water than will just cover 
them, as they produce a considerable quantity of fluid themselves while 
boiling, and too much water will make them heavy. As soon as just done 
instantly pour off the water, set them back on the range, and leave the cover 
off the saiicepan till the steam has evaporated. They will then, if a good 
kind, be dry and mealy. This is an Irish receipt, and a good one. 

Snap Beans ami Potatoes. — Snap some beans and parboil them; then 
poiir into a colander and let the water drain off. Ta,ke several potatoes, 
peel, and cut iuto small pieces; put into a saucepan a spoonful of lard and 
an onion cut up small, the potatoes, and last, the snap beans. If you have 
any beef broth, pour just enough into the skillet to cover the beans; if not, 
use boiUng water; season ■with salt and pepper; let it boil till the potatoes 
are done. Should there be any broth, pour it off; add a piece of butter the 
size of awalmit and dredge a little flour over the beans; mix thoroughly by 
stirring, and let it simmer a few minutes longer, then remove from the fire. 

To Cook Asparagus. — Scrape the stalks till they are clean; throw them 
into a pan of cold water, tie them up in bundles of about a quarter of a 
hundred each; cutoff the stalks at the bottom all of a length, leaving enough 
to serve as a handle for the green part; put them into a stew pan of boiling 
water, with a handftil of salt in it. Let it boil and skim it. When they are 
tender at the stalk, which will be in from twenty to thirty minutes, they aro 
done enough. Watch the exact time of their becoming tender; take them 
up that instant. While the asparagus is boiling, toast a slice of bread about 
half an inch thick; brown it delicately on both sides; dip it lightly in the 
liquor the asparagus was boiled in, and lay it in the middle of a dish; melt 
some butter, but do not put it over them. Serve with butter. 

Asparagus witli Eggs. — This dainty luncheon-dish ia made of what- 
ever asparagus may be left over from the previous day. Supposing there 



COOKING RECIPES. 295 

are a dozen heads of asparagus, cut the green part iuto pieces the size of 
peas, melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful of cream 
or milk, a tablespoonful of gravy, a Uttle pepper and salt, and three well- 
beaten eggs. Throw in the asparagus, stir the eggs quickly over the fire for 
half a minute till they are set, and pour the mixture neatly upon shoes of 
bread which have been dipped in boiling water and buttered. 

Ste-vved Citcuintoers.— Cut the cucumbers fully half an inch thick right 
through; put them in a saucepan, just covering them with hot water, and let 
them boil slowly for a quarter of an hour, or until tender, but not so as to 
break them, then drain them; you want now a pint of good cream, and put 
your cream with a teaspoouful of butter, in a saucepan, and when it is warm 
pop in the cucumbers, season with a httle salt and white pepper, cook five 
minutes, shaking the saucepan all the time, and serve hot. It is just aa 
deUcate as asparagus, and a very nice dish, indeed. 

Stuffed Tm-nips. — Peel and boil in boihng water well salted a quart of 
medium-sized turnips; as soon as they are tender drain them, cut a sUce 
from the top of each, scoop out half the middle with a teaspoon, mash the 
part taken out, with a Uttle salt, pepper, butter and the yelk of an egg, and 
fill the turnips -with the mixture; put on each one the slice cut from the top, 
brush them over with the beaten white of an egg, set them in a baking dish 
and brown them in a hot oven. Serve them hot. 

Macaroni. — People who like macaroni will find pleasure in eating it 
when prepared in this way: Boil it until it is tender, taking care to preserve 
the shape so far as possible. When it is done drain off all the water and 
pour over it a little sweet milk, with a lump of butter and plenty of pepper 
and salt. While the macaroni is boihng, cook in a separate saucepan enough 
tomatoes to make a pint when stewed. When the macaroni is i-eady for the 
table, pour the tomatoes over it; serve hot. 

Stitff'ed Egg Plant. — Cut them in half lengthwise, and parboil them in 
salted water; scoop out most of the inside and pound this to a paste in the 
mortar with a httle fat bacon and some mushrooms previously chopped up, 
a little onion also chopped, pepper and salt to taste, and a httle crumb of 
bread soaked in stock. Fill each half with this mixture, lay them in a well 
buttered tin and bake for about a quarter of an hour. 

StulTed Squash. — Pare a small squash and cut off a sUce from the top; 
extract the seeds and lay one hour in salt water; then fill with a good 
stuffing of crumbs, chopped salt pork, parsley, etc., wet with gravy; put on 
the top slice; set the squash in a pudding dish; put in a few spoonfuls ol 
melted butter and t'nace as much hot water in the bottom; cover the dish 
very closely and set in the oven two hours, or until tender; lay within a 
deep dish and pour the gravy over it. 

Saratoga Potatoes. — Cut raw potatoes in sUces as thin as wafers with 
a thin sharp knife; lay them in cold water over night, a bit of alum will 
make them more crisp; next morning rinse in cold water and dry with a 
towel. Have ready a kettle of lai-d, hotter than for fried cakes, and drop in the 
potatoes a few at a time. They will brown quickly, skim out in a colander 
and sprinkle with salt, or lay them on a double brown paper in the oven till 
dry. If any are left over from the meal, they caa be warmed in the oven, 
uid will be juat as good, for another time. 



286 THE KOUfiEHOLD. 

Baked Onions. — Peel ten largo onions without breaking the layers; boil 
them for half an hour in well-salted boiling water, and drain them; when 
cool enough to handle cut a half-inch slice from the top of each, and take out 
a teaspoonful of the middle part; chop these pieces fine, mix them with half 
a cup of stale bread crumbs, a saltspoonful of salt, quarter of that quantity 
of pepper and the yelk of a raw egg; use this force meat to stuff the onionis, 
lay them on a baking dish, brush T;hem with the white of the egg beaten a 
little, dust them with tine bread crumbs and bake them slowly for fortj 
minutes. Serve them hot. 

Potato Dumplings. — Peel some potatoes and grate them into a basin of 
Water; let the pulp remain in the water for a couple of hours, drain it off, 
and mix with it half its weight of flour; season with pepper, salt and chopped 
onions. If not moist enough add a little water. Eoll into dumplings the 
eize of a large apple, sprinkle them well with flour, and throw them into 
boiling water. When you observe them rising to the toi^ of the saucepan, 
they will be boiled enough. 

An Appetizing Entree._Take cold boiled cabbage, chop it fine; for a 
medium-sized pudding dish full add two well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 
of butter, three tablespoonfuls of cream, with pepper and salt ad lihilimi. 
Butter the pudding dish, put the cabbage in and bake unJl brown. Thia 
may be eaten cold, but it is much better if served hot. It is especially good 
with roast pork or pork chops. 

Fried Cawliflower. — Pick out all the green [leaves from a cauliflower 
and cut off the stalk close. Put it, head do^vnward, into a saucepan full of 
boiling, salted water. Do not over boil it. Drain it on a siev.e, pick it out 
into small sprigs, and place them in a deep dish with plenty of vinegar, 
pepper and salt. When they have laid about an Lour in this, drain them, 
dip them in batter, and fry iu hot lard to a golden color. 

Irish Stew. — This is the stew that is mostly made in Ireland. Put some 
slices of boiled corned beef (never fresh) into a stewpan vnth a good deal of 
water, or tliin stock, two large onions sliced, and "some cold boiled potatoes 
(whole) and a little pepper. Stew gently until the potatoes are quite soft 
and have taken up nearly all the gravy; some will break; but they should 
be as whole as possible. Turn all out on a flat dish and serve. 

To Cook Spinacli. — Boil spinach in the ordinary way; drain it and get 
off all the water; chop it just as finely as possible — it cannot be divided too 
much. Take a small onion, slice it very fine and brown it in butter; chcp 
this fine and mix it with the spinach; have a teacup of milk, a tablespoonful 
of flour, a dessertspoonful of butter, some salt and popper; stir in the 
spinach and cook about ten minutes. 

Tomato Pie—Peel and slice enough green tomatoes to fill one pie; to 
this allow four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one of butter, and three and a hall 
of sugar, flavor with nutmeg, bake with two crusts very slowly. If you 
choose you may stew the tomatoes first, and then there is no danger of the 
pie being too juicy. 

Kxcellent Way to Cook Tomatoes. — A delicious dish (especially suit- 
able with cutlets, steaks, broiled ham, or anything served without gravy) 
may be made by cutting tomatoes into thin slices, and grilling them over a 



. COOKING RECIPES. 297 

liharp fire for ten minutes, or thereabouts; they should then be coated with 
a mixture of bread crumbs, fresh bu' ter, mustard, salt, pepper and sugar 
(proportions according to taste), and returned to the gridiron, or put into a 
hot oven to crisp. 

Baked Beets. — One of the most satisfactory ways to cook beets is to 
bake them; when boiled, even if their jackets are left on, a great deal of the 
best part of the beet is dissolved and so lost. It will, of course, take a little 
longer to bake than to boil them, but this is no objection; allow from fifteen 
to twenty minutes more for baking; slice them and eat as you would if they 
were boiled. One nice way to serve them is to chop them fine. After they 
d,re oooked season with pepper, salt and butter. 

Ijille Cabbage. — Wash a large cabbage, cut it in inch pieces, rejecting 
the stalk, and drain it in a colander. Meantime peel and chop an onion, fry 
it for one minute in two tablespoonfuls of drippings of butter, add the cab- 
bage, with a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful each of pep- 
per and grated nutmeg, cover it, and simmer it for twenty minutes, stirring 
it frequently to prevent burning. Serve it hot. 

Vegetable Hasli. — Chop, not veiy fine, the vegetables left from a 
boiled dinner, and season them with salt and pepper. To each quart of the 
chopped vegetables add half a cup of stock and one tablespoonful of butter. 
Heat slowly in the frying-pan. Turn into a hot dish when done, and serve 
immediately. If vinegar is liked, two or more tablespoonfuls of it can be 
stirred into the hash while it is heating. 

Baked Cabbage. — Boil a firm head for fifteen minutes, then change the 
water for more boiling water; boil till tender, drain and set aside to cool^ 
Mince some boiled ham; mix with bread crumbs; add pepper, one table- 
spoonful of butter, and two eggs well beaten, and three tablespoonfuls of 
milk; chop cabbage very fine; mix all together, and bake in a pudding-dish 
till brown. Serve hot. 

Succotash. — Cut the corn from eight or ten cobs; mix this with one-third, 
the quantity of Lima beans, and cook one hour in just enough water to cover 
them. Drain off most of the water; add a cup of milk, with a pinch of soda 
stirred in. When this boils, stir in a great spoonful of butter rolled in flour, 
season with pepper and salt, and simmer ten minutes longer. 

Potatoes a la Dncliesse. — Take some cold, boiled potatoes, cut them 
into rounds, cutting with a cake cutter wet with cold water. Grease the 
bottom of a baking-pan and set the rounds in it in rows, but not touching 
one another, and bake quickly, first brushing them all over— except, ol 
course, on the bottom — with beaten egg. When they commence to brown, 
lay a napkin, folded, upon a hot dish and range them regularly upon it. 

Macaroni Cheese. — Boil two ounces of macaroni, then drain it well. 
Put into a saucepan one ounce of butter; mix it well with one tablespoonful 
of flour; moisten with four tablespoonfuls of veal stock and a gill of cream; 
add two ounces of grated cheese, some mustard, salt and cayenne to taate, 
put in the macaroni and serve as soon as it is well mixed with the sauce and 
quite hot. 

Ste-»ved Itlushrooms. — SUce the mushrooms into halves. Stew ten min- 
utes in a little butter seasoned with pepper and salt and a very little "vrater. 



298 THE TTOUSEnOLB. 

Drain, put tbe mushrooms into a pie dish; break enough eggs to cover them 
over the top; pepper, salt and scatter bits of butter over them; stew with 
bread crumbs and bake until the eggs are set. Serve in the dish. 

Stewed Carrots. —Boil the carrots until they are half done, then scrape 
and cut into thick sUces; put them into a stewpan with as much milk as will 
hardly cover them; a very little salt and pepper, and a small quantity of 
chopped parsley; simmer them until they are perfectly tender, but not 
Lrokeu. When nearly done add a piece of butter rolled in flour. Serva 
hot. 

Potato Croquettes. — Take six boiled potatoes, pass them through a 
sieve; add to them three tablespoonfuls of ham, grated or minced finely, a 
little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, and some chopped parsley; 
■work into this mixture the yelka of three or four eggs, then fashion it into 
the shape of balls, roll them in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard, and serve 
with fried parsley. 

Imitation Duck. — Boil two onions iintil nearly soft; then chop them 
fine, and mix with pieces of stale bread crusts that have been soaked awhile 
in cold water or milk. Add a little powdered sage, some pepper and some 
salt. Grease a baking tin, put the mixture in, and strew over the top some 
grated bread and bits of butter. Bake it for half an hour and serve for 
breakfast, or a side dish at dinner. 

Potatoes Pried Wliole. — When nearly boiled enough, put small po- 
tatoes into a stew^jan with butter, or beef dripping; shake them about to 
prevent burning, till they are brown and crisp; drain them from the fat. It 
■will be an improvement if they are floured and dipped in the yelk of an egg, 
and then rolled in finely-sifted bread crumbs. This is the ordinary French 
method. 

Scalloped SqnasU. — BoU and mash the squash in the customary way 
and let it cool; beat the yelks of two eggs, and when the squash is nearly 
cold, whip these into it, with three tablespoonfuls of milk, one of butter 
rolled in flour and melted into the milk; pepper and salt to taste; pour into 
a buttered bake-dish, cover with fine crumbs, and bake to a light brown in a 
quick oven. To be eaten hot. 

Potato Pie. — Peel and grate one large white potato into a dish, add the 
juice and rind of one lemon, the beaten white of one egg, one teacup of white 
sugar, one cup cold water; pour this into a nicei under crust and bake; when 
done have ready the beaten whites of three eggs, half cup powdered sugar, 
flavor wit^ lemon, spread on the pie and return to the oven to harden. 

A Delicious Disli. — Take a largo fresh cabbage and cut out the heart. 
Fill the place with stuffing, or veal chopped very fine, and highly seasoned, 
rolled into balls -with yelk of egg. Then tie the cabbage firmly together and 
boil in a kettle for two hours. It makes a very delicious dish, and it is often 
useful for using small pieces of meat. 

Haricot Beans.—Soak half a pint of the small white beans over night in 
just enough cold water to cover them; the next day boil two hours, strain 
and put in a pie-dish with one-half ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley, previously fiied; cover with slices of rmy bacon, and bake 
a quarter of an hour. 



00 KING RECIPE!^ 299 

Potatoes Pried -ivltli Butter. — Nicely wash and pare some floury po- 
tatoes; cut each iuto any form you fancy, such as a large lozenge, etc.; then 
thinly slice them, so that the pieces may be of a uniform shape; clip them 
into either a sweet or savory batter, fry them in plenty of butter, and serve 
them quite hot, with either salt or pounded loaf-sugar strewn upon them. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Pare and slice; scatter fine crumbs in the bot- 
tom of a bake-dish; cover with slices of tomatoes, seasoned with sugar, pep- 
per, salt and butter; cover with crumbs and then with tomatoes; fill the 
dish in this order, covering all with crumbs, with bits of butter sprinkled 
upon them. Bake, covered, half an hour, and brown. 

Celery Sauce. — Pick and wash two heads of celery, cut them into pieces 
an inch long, and stew them in a pint of water and a teaspoonful of salt until 
the celery is tender. Rub a large tablespoonful of butter and a spoonful of 
flour well together; stir this into a pint of cream, put in the celery, and let it 
boil up once. Serve hot with boiled poultry. 

Fried Potatoes. — The French method of cooking potatoes affords ft 
most agreeable dish. The potatoes are peeled, wiped, and cut into thin 
slices, and thrown into a frying-pan containing an abundance of hot lard. 
As soon as they become brown and crispy, they are thrown in a colander to 
drain them; then sprinkle with salt, and seiwe hot. 

Onions and Tomatoes. — A side dish, which will be new to many cooks, 
is made by slicing very thin some onions and green tomatoes, in about equal 
proportions, and frying them together just as you fry onions alone. Salt 
them well, and, if there is any danger of their being greasy, drain before 
flerving. 

Sauce Rol>ert. — Put two medium-sized onions, chopped very fine, with 
a large lump of butter, in a stew-pan; let them brown well, constantly stir- 
ring; add a teaspoonful of flour mixed with half a pint of good stock; salt 
and pepper; cook about five minutes; add a teaspoonful of mixed mustard 
and one of vinegar. 

Tomato and Onion Omelet. — Take equal parts of sliced onions and 
tomatoes, peeled and freed from pips, chop them both coarsely. Fry the 
onions in butter. When cooked, without being colored, add the tomatoes, 
with pepper and salt, and stir the mixture on the fire. Make a plain omelet 
in the usual way, and insert this in the fold on dishing it. 

Scalloped Onions. — Boil, till tender, six large onions. Take them up, 
di'ain and separate them; put a layer of bread or biscuit-crumbs in a pud- 
ding-dish, then a layer of onions alternately, until the dish is full. Season 
with pepper and salt, add a little butter, moisten with milk, and brown hall 
an hour in the oven. 

Baked Cauliflower. — Put cauUflower to soak in salted water for an 
hour or more; look over carefully; remove the hard stalks and leaves; 
scald for five minutes; cut into Jpieces and put into a pie-dish; add a little 
milk, and season with pepper, salt and butter; cover the whole with dry 
grated cheese and bake. 

Green Corn-Cakes. — Cut the com from the cob and stir it into a graham 
batter made mth sweet milk; fry, and serve hot with melted butter. 



800 THE nOUSEHOLD. 

Scalloped Potatoes — Pare the potatoes, cover the bottom of a baking- 
dish with bread crumbs, theu add a layer of sUced potatoes, then bits of 
butter, salt and pepper, fill the dish with the alternate layers, wet the whole 
with mUk, and bake the whole for an hour and a half. 

Lima Beans with Cream—Put a pint of the shelled beans into just 
enough boiling salted water to cover them, and boil them tender; then drain 
ofl'the water; add a cup of boiling milk (or better, cream), a little piece of 
butter, pepper and salt. Let the beans simmer a minute in the milk before 
serving. 

Com with Tomatoes — Cut the corn from the cob and put it with an 
equal quantity of tomatoes that have been sliced and peeled; stew these 
together for half an hour; then season to taste with salt and pepper and a 
little sugar; stir in a liberal piece of butter and simmer a few minutes 
longer. 

Browned Potatoes—Steam or boil small-sized potatoes, peel and place 
them in a stewpan with some melted butter, shake occasionally, and when all 
are well browned serve upon thin slices of toast which have been dipped in 
Chili sauce that has been thinned with a little weak vinegar. 

Tomato Sauce. — Pare, slice and stew the tomatoes fqr twenty minutes. 
Strain and rub through a colander, leaving the hard and tough parts behind. 
Put into & sauce-pan with a httle minced onion, parsley, pepper, salt and 
sugar. Bring to a boil; stir in a good spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Boil 
up and serve. 

Baked Tomatoes for Brealcfast. — Take a quart of cold stewed toma- 
toes, beat into it two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, a little more salt and pepper, and bake for twwity 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Potato Sno%v. — Take large white potatoes and boil them in their skins 
until tender, drain and dry them near the fire, and peel; put a hot dish 
before the fire and rub the potatoes through a coarse sieve into it; do not 
touch afterwards or the flakes will fall; serve immediately. 

Potato Puffs. — Take any outside slices of cold meat, chop and season 
with pepper, salt and cut pickles. Mash potatoes, making them into paste 
with an egg; roll cut with a dust of flour; cut round with a saucer. Put the 
seasoned meat on one-half and fold like a putf. Fry a light brown. 

Potato Fritters. — Grate six cold boiled potatoes, add to them ono 
pint of cream or new milk, and flour enough to make as stiff a baiter as for 
other fritters, the yelk of three eggs, then the beaten whites, salt, and fry in 
sweet butter. 

Fried Egg Plant. — Peel and parboil five minutes, cut slices crosswise, 
season with pepper and salt, roll the slices in the beaten egg, then in fine 
breadcrumbs (or they may be dipped in batter); fry a light brown in hot 
lard. 

Horseradish Sauce. — Grate the horseradish, boil an egg hard, pound 
the yelk, and add to the above a little raw cream, mustard and vinegar added 
the last thing. It must all be mixed cold and then heated. 



COOKING UECIPES. 301 

Potato Balls.— Masli boiled potatoes; add butter, size of an egg, two 
Bpoonfula of milk, a little salt; stir it well; roll with your hands into 
balls; roll them in egg and crumbs; fry them in hot fat, or bro\vTi in the 
oven. 

To Prepare Potatoes for Breakfast. — A nice way to prepare potatoes 
for breakfast is to cut cold boiled ones in square pieces, and .dip them in 
beaten egg, and put them on a buttered pie-pla-te in the oven; when they are 
hot and bro^vn send them to the table. 

Green Corn Pudding. — Take twelve cars of sweet com, grated, one 
and one-half pints of milk, four well-beaten eggs, and one and-half teacups 
of sugar. Mix the above. Bake it for two hours in a buttered dish. 

Caiiliflower Omelet. — Take the white part of a boiled cauliflower; after 
it is cold chop it very small and mis with it a sufBcient quantity of well- 
beaten egg to make a very thick batter. 

Tomato Toast. — Prepare the tomatoes as for sauce, and while they are 
cooking toast some slices of bread very brown, but not burned; butter them 
on both sides, and pour the tomato sauce over them. 

Tomatoes Fried. — ^Do not pare them, cut in slices; dip in pounded 
crackers sifted. Trv in butter. 



Salads and Relishes. 

Fine Cucumber Pickles. — Make a brine that will bear an egg, and 
drop in the cucumbers; cover them with grape leaves; weight them down, 
and let them stand ten or more days. Then take them out, drain well, and 
soak a day or two in plenty of clear water, frequently changed. Afterward 
put them in a kettle with grape and cabbage loaves and a lump of alum. 
Cover with weak vinegar, and let them stand until they turn green. Then 
take out, drain, and put into stone jars. For each three gallons of pickles 
use one gallon of cider vinegar, and place into it one ounce each of mace and 
celery seed, two ounces of ginger, three ounces each of cloves and stick cin- 
namon, four ounces each of mustard seed (black and white mixed), choice 
black pepper and allspice, two tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, a handful 
of chopped horseradish, two pods of red pepper, four onions, and two pounds 
of sugar. Boil, and pour it hot over the pickles. More sugar can be added 
to suit the taste. Cover the jar very closely, and expose to the sun every 
day during hot weather. 

Egg Pickle. — Obtain a moderate-sized, wide-mouthed earthen jar, 
sufficient to hold one dozen eggs; let the latter be boiled quite hard; when 
fuilj done, place the same, after taking them up, into a pan of cold water. 
Remove the shells from them, and deposit them carefully in the jar. Have 
on the fire a quart (or more, if necessary) of good white wine vinegar, into 
which introduce one ounce of raw ginger, two or three blades of sweet mace, 
one ounce of allspice, half an ounce of whole black pepper and salt, and half 
an ounce of mustard seed, -with four cloves of garlic. When it has simmered 
for half an hour, take it up and pour the contents into the jar, taking care to 
obser^'e that the eggs are wholly covered. When quite cold, stopper it down 
for use. It will be ready after a month. When cut into quarters they serve 
as a gamieh, and afford a nice relish to cold meat of any kind. 



802 THE HOUSEHOLI). 

Delicious Beet Salad. — Boil some Bermuda beets and set tbem on ice 

to get thoroughly cold. If they are large they will take many hours of boil- 
ing, and must be cooked neither too long nor too quickly— in either case 
they will be tough and hard. Cut them up in small, not too thick, slices, 
add some nicely-sliced cold potatoes, and a shred or two of onion— just 
enough to flavor the salad. Now dress it with plain French di-essing of 
much oil, a little vinegar, salt and pepper. Arrange it in your salad dish, 
and having chopped finely a hard-boiled egg, arrange it over the salad, 
leaving a rim of almost an inch and a half uncovered. On this rim arrange 
sprigs of the small watercress. With the deep red of the beets showing 
through the delicate green of the cress and the white and yellow of the egg, 
the salad looks beautifully, and it tastes so deliciously that it can never go 
begging. The Bermuda beets must be tised, as they are the sweetest and 
richest. Some people add a little raw sliced apple— the fruit must be tart 
and soft. 

Celery Salad. — Take three bunches of celery, chop fine in a chopping 
bowl, sprinkle over it salt and a little pepper, then beat up one egg in a 
saucepan, add half teacup of vinegar, two tablespoonfula of sugar, and four 
tablespoonfuls of salad dressing; stir it altogether and when it comes to a 
boil put in the celery and let it all boil for about five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly, then put it into a dish and have an egg boiled hard, which cut in 
slices and lay over the top; garnish around the edge with the tops of the 
celery. It is best when cold. I make chicken salad the same way, by taking 
as much chicken as celery, and a little more vinegar and salad. 

Potato Salad — To one pint mashed potatoes (those left over from din- 
ner are just right), add the smoothly-rubbed yelks of three hard-boiled eggs, 
reserving the whites cut in transverse slices to garnish the dish; slice one 
cucumber pickle, one teaspoonful ground mustard, pepper and salt to taste; 
heat one teacup good vinegar, dissolving in it a lump of butter the size of a 
walnut; pour the vinegar over the pickle and seasoning, and add the mashed 
potatoes by degrees, rubbing and incorporating thoroughly. We think you 
will find it an agreeable addition to the table. 

Chicken Salad. — Cut the meat from two chickens, or one if you want a 
small dish. Add an equal quantity of shred lettuce, after you have cut the 
chickens into narrow shreds two inches long. Mix in a bowl. Prepare a 
dressing thus: Beat tha yelks of two eggs, salt lightly and beat in, a few 
drops at a time, four tablespoonfuls of oil; then, as gradually, three tea- 
sjioonfuls of hot vinegar and half a teaspoonful of best celery essence. The 
mixture should be thick as cream; pour over the chicken, mix well and 
Ughtly, put into a salad dish and lay sections of two hard-boiled eggs on 
top, with a chain of sliced whites around the edge. 

Pickled Cauliflower. — Take half a dozen small heads of cauliflower 
and break them into sprigs; then boil them in enough salt and water to 
cover them; let them scald until a sprig from the broom can be run through 
them, or a fork will pierce them easily; then skim out into jars and make a 
pickle of one gallon of vinegar, half a pound of brown sugar, one ounce of 
unground pepper, half an ounce of cloves, one ounce of white mustard seed, 
one ounce of celery seed and one ounce of turmeric; boil all together for 
twenty minutes, and pour while very hot over the cauliflower; cover closely 
and it "mil keep all wantex. 



COOKING- RECIPES. 'JOB 

Tomato Catsup— Cut ono peck of ripe tomatoea in halves, boil them in 
a lined saucepan until the pulp is all dissolved, then strain them well 
through a hair sieve and set the liquor on to boil, adding one ounce of salt, 
ono ounce of mace, one tablespoouful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of 
red pepper, one tablespoouful of ground cloves, five of ground mustard; let 
them all boil together for five or six hours, and stir them most of the time. 
Let the mixture stand eight or ten hours in a cool place, and add one pint of 
vinegar, and then bottle it; seal the corks and keep in a cool, dark place. 

IIo-»v to Dress Salad. — Take one-half a lemon and rub the inside of the 
salad bowl. Rub the yelks of two hard-boiled eggs, mashing them with a 
wooden spoon smooth; mix with them a tablespoouful of water and two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. Add b)' slow degrees a saltspoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of mustard and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. When these 
are all blended evenly pour in three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Have your 
lettuce quite fresh and crisp, and picked over nicely; place in the salad 
bowl; do not stir it around, as that would cause it to wilt. Decorate the top 
of it with hoiled red beet, cut in different forms, and the hard boiled whites 
of your eggs. 

Asparagns Piclclecl. — Cut and wash the green heads of the largest 
asparagus; let them he two or three hours in cold water; scald them very 
carefully in salt and water, then lay them on a cloth to cool; make a pickle 
according to the quantity of your asj^aragus, of white wine vinegar and salt, 
and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, the same of whole white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them; 
cover the jar with a thick cloth, and let it stand a week, then boil the pickle; 
when it has stood another week, boil it a third time, and when cold cover 
the jar close. 

liobster Salad — Eight eggs, one pint vinegar, four tablespoonfuls 
melted butter or sweet oil, one tablespoouful mixed mustard, one table- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful black pepper; mix altogether, put it over the 
fire to cook. Do not let it boil, it will thicken when done; stir constantly. 
Chop the lobster not fine, and lettuce the same, mix, but not till about time 
for eating. Add as much of the dressing as seems necessary to make the 
salad creamy, and then spread a little over the whole. The dressing will 
keep bottled a long time. It is nice with any meats. 

Cauliflower Salad. — Boil a cauliflower in salted water till tender, but 
not overdone; when cool, cut it up neatly in small sprigs. Beat up together 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, and one tablespoouful of Tarragon vinegar, with 
pepper and salt to taste; rub the dish very slightly with garlic, arrange tho 
pieces of cauliflower in it, strew over them some capers, a little Tarragon, 
chervil, and parsley all finely minced, and the least bit of dried thyme and 
marjoram powdered. Pour the oil and vinegar over, and serve. 

Tomato Salad. — Tomato salad is an agreeable entree, and goes well 
with almost any dinner, but particularly well ynih. fried or roast meats. To 
half a dozen medium-sized tomatoes, with the sldns removed and the toma- 
toes sUced, add tho yelks of two hard-boiled eggs, also one raw egg, well 
beaten and mixed with a tablespoouful of melted butter, a teaspoonful of 
sugar, with cayenne pepper and salt to suit the taste. When all these are 
xniied thoroughly, add half a small cup of vinegar. 



304 'Ihj^J HOVHEllOLD. 

Hewing Salad.— Soak two herrings over nigbt; boil two quarts of po- 
tatoes wdth the skins on; when cold, peel and cut in dice; bone and skin the 
herrings and cut in dice; chop a largo onion fine; mix all together with pep- 
per and vinegar, enough to moisten. To be eaten with cream poured over. 
Serve on a largo, flat dish, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and beets cut 
in slices. (This is the Swedish way. ) 

Cabbage Salad— One pint of good vinegar, four well-beaten eggs, half 
a cup of butter; put them on the fire, and stir constantly until the mixture 
begins to thicken; then add a tablespoonful of made mustard, two of salt, 
and oile of black pepper; chop one head of cabbage very fine, mth one buncb 
of celery, and soak in salt and water for two hours; drain and pour the 
dressing over it, and mix it. It will keep all winter ii a cool place, if kept 
well covered. By mixing lobster or chicken with it, you will have a nice 
salad. 

Something Nice. — Take the seeds out of green tomatoes, and cut the 
tomatoes in fine strips Mith scissors until you have six pounds of them. 
Add four or five good-sized bell peppers, green, after taking out the seeds 
and cutting fine. Add also two and a half pounds of white sugar and one 
quart of cider vinegar, a half ounce of cloves, and a small quantity of mace. 
Cook all about an hour, and you will have nice spiced tomatoes. 
• 
Sweet Cucumber Piclcles. — Take ripe cucumbers, cut out the inside, 
pare, and slice in squares an inch or two long and one wide, as you fancy. 
Take seven pounds of this, boil in salt water until tender, then drain. In 
a porcelain kettle put one quart of vinegar, three pounds of sugar, one 
ounce cassia buds, one of cloves, one-half allspice. Boil together, then add 
the cucumber, and simmer all two hours. 

German Salad. — Take six medium-sized cold potatoes, and slice thin, 
"three good-sized sweet aj^ples, also cut in small sUces, four silver skinned 
onions chopped fine, and a little parsley cut in bits; dress these with two 
tablespoonfuls of oil, salt, pepper, sugar, and a little mustard and vinegar 
to blend the whole; beat it very light, and stir through the salad; garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings. 

Carrot Salad. — Wash and scrape tender, rich-colored carrots; throw 
them into fast-boiling water, and boil until soft; cut them into very thin 
slices; put them into a glass bowl, and sprinkle with sifted loaf sugar; add 
the juice of a large lemon, and a wineglassful of olive oil; garnish the dish 
with very thin slices of lemon, and any kind of green salad leaves. 

Pickled Onions. — Peel small silver butter onions and throw them into 
a, stew pan of boiling water; as soon as they look clear take them out with a 
strainei'-ladle, place them on a folded cloth covered with another, and when 
quite dry put them into a jar and cover them with hot spiced vinegar. When 
quite cold pack them down and cover with a tight cover. 

Winter Salad. — Chop very fine some nice cabbage with a Uttle onion 
and celery; salt and pepper to taste; take the yelk of an egg and stir with a 
fork, and drop one drop at a time into some salad oil until the egg is quite 
thick; add four tablespoonfuls sti-ong vinegar, one tablespoonful mustard. 
Tou must stir the egg very quickly while putting the oil and vinegar in. 
This is v«ry nice when made right. 



. UOOKIN-Q REOIPES. 305 

Ham Salad. — Take your fragment of cold boiled ham left after eUcing, 
remove all dark and dry portions, also all the fat; mince evenly and fine; 
take enough rich, sweet cream to set the mince, a saltepoonfal of strong, 
ground mustard, the same of fine siigar, and a good pinch of cayenne pep- 
per; mix thoroughly with the ham; garnish 'with sprigs of parsley, and you 
have a nice dish for tea. 

French Mustard. —Slice up an onion In a bowl; cover with good vine- 
gar; leave two or three days; pour oft vinegar into a basin; put into it one 
teaspoonful pepper, one of salt, one tablespoonful brown sugar, and mus- 
tard enough to thicken; smooth the mustard for vinegar as you would flout 
for gravy; mix all together; set on the stove and stir until it boils, when re- 
move, and use it cold. 

Spiced Apples. — Eight pounds of apples, pared and quartered; four 
pounds of sugar; one quart of vinegar, one ounce of thick cinnamon, one- 
half ounce cloves; boil the vinegar, sugar, and spice together; put in the 
apples while boUing, and let them remain until tender (about twenty min- 
utes); then put the apples in a jar; boU do^vn the syrup untU thick, and 
pour over them. 

To Pickle Red Cait»l»ages. — SUce them into a sieve, and sprinkle each 
layer with salt. Let the whole drain three days; then add some sUced beet- 
root, and place the whole in a jar, over which pour boiUng vinegar. The 
purple-red cabbage its the finest. Mace, bruised ginger, whole pepper, and 
cloves may be boiled with the vinegar, and will make a great improve- 
ment. 

Cucujnber Catsup. — Grate three dozen large cucumbers and twelve 
white onions; put three handfuls of salt over them. They must be prepared 
the day beforehand, and in the morning lay them to drain; soak a cup and % 
half of mustard seed, drain it and add to the cucumbers, with two spoonfuls 
of whole pepper; put them in ajar, cover with vinegar, and cork tight; keep 
in a dry place. 

Salad Dessert. — ^Boil and mash a white potato, add the yelks of two 
hard-boiled eggs. "WhUe the potato is warm, beat all smoothly together, 
add melted butter or oil-prepared mustard, salt and vinegar to taste. The 
potato increases the quantity of dressing, and cannot be distinguished from 
eggs. 

Plcltled Oysters— Select the largest oysters, drain off their liquor, and 
wash them in clear, water; put them in a stew-pan with water proportioned 
to the number of oysters, some salt, blades of mace, and whole black pep- 
per. Stew them a few minutes, then put them in a pot, and when cold, add 
as much pale vinegar as will give the liquor an agreeable aeid. 

Clover Vinegar. — Put a large bowl of molasses in a crock and pour 
over it nine bowls of boiling i-ainwater; let it stand until milk warm, put in 
two quarts of clover blossoms, and two cups of bakers' yeast; let it stand 
two weeks, and strain through a towel. Nothing will mold in it. 

Salad Dressing—Six tablespoonfuls of melted butter, six tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspconfiil of pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of gi'ound mustard, one cup of vinegar; then add three eggs beaten 
to a foam, remove from the fire and stir. 



806 TUE HOUSEHOLD. 

Fruit Salad. — A new dish with which epicures tempt fate and give an 
impetus to stomach anodynes is composed of sliced oranges, sliced pine- 
apples, sliced bananas, sliced hard-boiled eggs, sliced cucumbers, vinegar 
and sugar. It is called a fruit salad. 

S-weet Pickles. — Take eight pounds of green tomatoes and chop fine; 
add four pounds of brown sugar, and boil down three hours; add one quart 
of vinegar, a toaspoonful each of mace, cinnamon, and cloves, and boil about 
fifteen minutes. Let it cool, and put into jai-a or other vessel. 

Chili Sauce. — Twelve ripe tomatoes, pared, two large peppers chopped 
fine, one large onion chopped fine, two teacups of vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful salt, one cup brown sugar, one teaspoonful each of allspice, nutmeg, 
cloves, and ginger. Boil all together. 

Currant Catsup. — To five pints of strained currants add three pounds 
of sugar, one pint of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of pep- 
per, one of cloves, one of allspice, one-half of salt; scald them well three- 
quarters of an hour; then put it in bottles and cork tight. 

Grape Catsup. — Five pounds of grapes; boil and press through colan- 
der; two and a half pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful 
each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and cayenne pepper, and half a table- 
spoonful of salt. Boil until the catsup is rather thick. 

Preserved Tomatoes.— A jDOund of sugar to a pound of tomatoes. 
Take six pounds of each, the peel and juice of four lemons, and a quarter of 
a pound of ginger tied up in a bag. Boil very slowly for three hours. 

Spiced Cuii-ants. — Three pounds of sugar to seven pounds of currants, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of allspice, pepper if desired. 
Boil half an hour, etiriing enough to prevent burning. Spiced currants are 
especially good M'ith meat. 

Tomato Butter. — Sixteen pounds nice tomatoes, one quart vinegar, 
eighi pounds sugar. Boil all together until thick. When half done add two 
large spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of ground mace, and a teaspoonful of 
cloves or allspice. 

Hot Slaw. — Shave the cabbage fine; put it on with just water eiiougb to 
cook it; when it is done put a little milk in, salt and pepper; then rub a 
little flour in some butter and stir in. An egg may be stirred in in place of 
the flour. 

Cucumber Salad. — Peel and slice cucumbers, mix them with salt, and 
let them stand half an hour; mix two tablespoonfuls salad oil and the same 
quantity of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of sugar and one of pepper for the 
dressing. 

Bread and Rolls. 
slight Points in Bread-making. — 1. Good wheat flour. Some va- 
rieties of wheat, such as are deficient in gluten, Avill not make good flour. 

2. A good miller to grind the wheat. The bread-maker should be sure 
to find the good miller. 

3. The wheat should not be ground when very dry. Choose a " wet 
■pell" for tho grinding. 



COOKING RECIPES. 30T 

4. The flour should be sifted before using, to separate the particles. 

5. Good yeast. This made from new hops. Stale hops -vnll not, with 
certainty, make hvely yeast. 

6. Thorough kneading. After it has had enough, knead it awhile longer. 

7. Do not let the dough rise too much. Nine out of every ten bread- 
makers in this country let their bread " rise" until its sweetness has been 
destroyed. 

8. The oven can be too hot as well as too cool. The " happy medium" 
must be determined and selected. 

There are three kinds of bread, viz.: Sweet Bread, Bread and Sour 
Bread. Some housewives make sour bread, a great many make bread, but 
few make sweet bread. " Sweetness " in bread is a positive quaUty that not 
many bread-makers have yet discovered. 

To Make Graliani Bread. — Set the sponge to rise over night, using 
milk instead of water, and adding for every three quarts of flour a cup of 
molasses. In the morning, add a little salt and enough of flour to make a 
dough just thick enough not to be molded. Put in baking-tins to rise, and 
when light bake in a moderate oven. Do not mold at all. Eye bread and 
graham bread should be made soft; molding spoils the bread, making it 
hard, dry, and chippy. 

To Keep Bread Moist—Have the dough stiff when it is set lor the last 
risiug. The larger the proportion of flour to that of moisture in the dough 
the longer it will keep moist. After the bread is baked and cold, put it in a 
tin box or an earthen jar with close cover, and keep it covered tightly. 
Bread thus made, and kept cool, and always from the air, will last and be 
moist for a week. 

Home-Made Crackers. — Beat two eggs very Ughtly, whites and yelks 
together; sift into them a quart of flour, a teaspoonful of salt; add a table- 
spoonful each of butter and lard, and nearly a tumblerful of milk; woi-k all 
thoroughly together; take a fourth of the dough at a time and roll out half 
as thick as a mUk cracker, cut in small rounds, and bake quickly to a hght 
brown. 

Rice Bread. — Eice bread makes a pleasing variety at the breakfast 
table. Take one pint of well-cooked rice, half a pint of flour, the yelks of 
four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter melted, one pint of milk and half a 
teaspoonful of salt; beat these all together, then, lastly, add the whites of 
the four eggs, which you have beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in shallow pans 
or in gem tins. Servo warm. 

Sontliern Batter-Bread or Egg-Bread._Two cups white Indian 
meal, one cup cold boiled rice, three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful 
melted butter, two and a half cups milk, or enough for soft batter, one tea- 
spoonful salt, a pinch of soda. Stir the beaten eggs into the milk, the meal, 
salt, butter, last of all the rice. Beat well three minutes, and bake quickly 
in a shallow pan. 

Indian Bread._One pint of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
a little salt, one yeast cake, and for every cup of wheat flour put in two of 
Indian meal until as thick as pound cake. Turn into well-buttered tins and 
set in a warm place to rise over night. Then set in 9> elow oven to bftkQ 
ftbout three-fourths of aix hour, 



808 THE HOUSFHOLI). 

Squash Biscuit. — One pint of strained squash, one half cup of yeast, 
•one small cup of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of an egg; beat the 
Bquash, butter and sugar thoroughly, add yeast and beat again, add flour 
till quite stiff to stir with a spoon, let it stand over night, in the moi-ning put 
in gem pans, or make into biscuit, let rise and bake; these should be eaten 
■while hot. 

Broivn Bread. — One pint cornmeal, pour over it one pint boilmg water, 
teacup molasses, shorts or graham flour enough to make a stiff batter, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved iu a little boiling water; steam three 
hours by putting in a pan in a steamer over a pot of hot water; keep the 
water boiling all the time. 

Bread Clieesecaltes. — Slice a penny loaf as thin as possible, pour on it 
a pint of boiling cream. When well soaked, beat it very fine, add eight eggs, 
half a pound of butter, a grated nutmeg, half a pound of currants, a spoon- 
ful of brandy or white wine. Beat them up well together, and bake in raised 
crusts or patty pans. 

Graliam Gems. — Take cold water and make a batter of graham flour, a 
trifle thicker than for griddle cakes; salt a little if you like; bake in iron gem 
pans; the pans should be well heated before the batter is put in; bake in a 
very hot oven about twenty minutes. It will imjirove them to use part 
sweet milk, though they are good without. 

Oatiueal Crackers. — One teacup of oatmeal, and water enough to make 
a dough; mix well and quick; if it wUi bear to be rolled out M'ith the rolling 
pin, roll it; Iceep at it in the same way until it is one-quarter of an inch 
thick; do it very quickly or it will dry; make only dough enough at onetime 
for one cracker; do not brown in baking. 

Rosettes. — Beat the yelks of three eggs very light until they thicken. 
Add one quart of milk and one tablespoonful of melted butter and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Mix three teaspoonfuls of baking powder with three cups 
of flour, and add to the milk and eggs. When all the lumps are beaten out 
add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stifl' froth. Bake immediately in 
mufiSn pans in a quick oven. 

Frencli Rolls.— -One pint milk, small cup yeast, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter; let them rise well, add one egg, one tablespoonful batter, 
and flour enough to make it stiff enough to roll; knead well and let it rise; 
then knead again, roll out, cut with round tin, put in a pan and let them rise 
until very light; bake quickly and you will have deUcious rolls. Mix in the 
morning and have them for tea. 

Tea Rolls. — One pint of milk, one quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter or butter and lard, one-half Vienna yeast cake. This makes the 
sponge. Let it raise, salt it, dissolve a very small quantity of soda, and put 
into the sponge. Mix it with a quart of flour and let it raise again, then cut 
out and put in pans, to raise very light before putting into the oven. 

Scotcli Sliortbread._Eub together into a stiff short paste two pounds 
of flour, one pound of butter, and six ounces of loaf sugar. Make it into 
square cakes about a half-inch thick, pinch them all along the edge at the 
top, dock over the whole surface of the cake, put them on tins so as to touclj 
^ch other by their edges, and bake in a moderate oven. 



. Odd KING jtscipss. m 

S'rench Toast — Beat four eggs very light, aud stir with them one pint 
of milk; slice some nice white bread, dip the pieces into the egg' and milk, 
then lay them into a pan of hot butter and fry brown. Sprinkle a little pow- 
dered sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg on each piece, and serve hot. 

German Cream Biscuits. — Take four ounces of butter, six ounces of 
powdered loaf sugar, seven ounces of floux-, one tablespoonful of fresh cream, 
and one egg. Make the above into a dough, beating it well; then roll it out 
very thin, cutting it into square pieces two inches long and one broad. Bak« 
in a quick oven, and when done they should be a light yellow brown. 

Graliam Biscnits. — Three cups graham flour, one cup white do., three 
cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of lard or butter, one heaping large spoon- 
ful of white sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar; mix and bake as ordinary soda biscuit. They are 
good cold. 

Oatmeal Gems—One beaten egg, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of 
cold oatmeal pudding, beat all together, add half a teaspoonful of soda, and 
one and one-half cups of flour. This quantity will fill the gem pan. Does 
not hurt some dyspeptics. 

Breakfast Rolls Without Soda. — Two eggs, one and a half cups of 
milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and flour enough to make a thick batter. These 
must be baked in an iron gem pan, or they will be a complete failure. A 
quick oven is desirable. 

Dyspepsia Bread. — One pint bowl of graham flour; dissolve one-half a 
teaspoonful of soda in two- thirds of a cup of yeast and add to the mixture 
one teacup of uMlasses; pour in suflficient warm water to make it somewhat 
thinner than flour bread. 

Oatmeal Wafers. — Oatmeal wafers are relished by babies and older 
children, too. Take a pint of oatmeal and a pint of water, with almost a 
teaspoonful of salt; mdx and spread on buttered pans; make it just as thin 
as it is possible and yet have the bottom of the pan covered; bake slowly. 

Oatmeal Biscuit. — Take half a pound medium oatmeal, quarter of a 
pound flour, one dessertspoonful of baking powder; mix with two ounces 
butter and half a gill of milk, made hot in a saucepan. KoU out quickly, 
and bake in very thin cakes. 

lilglit Rolls.—Boil four potatoes; mash them and put into a pint of 
boiled milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter melted in the milk; flour enough 
to make a stiff batter; half a pint of yeast, one teaspoonful of salt. 

Graham Wafers.— Put a pinah of salt into one-half pound of graham 
flour; wet it with one-half pint of sweet cream; mix quickly and thoroughly; 
roll out as thin as possible, and cut in strips; prick and bake in a quick oven. 

Good Brown Bread.— Pour cups of cornmeal, three of rye, one of 
molasses, one large teaspoonful of soda dissolved in warm water. Mix very 
thin, steam three hours, and bake half an hom*. Try it. 

Railroad Teast.—One tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda^ 
one pint of boiling water; thicken with coarse flour or middlings; let it rise, 
and Bet in a cool place. XJae a teaspoonful to a baking of salt-rising bread. 



310 TBS ROUSF.EOLD. 

Rice Biscuits. — Take half a pound of sugar, half a pound of the beet 
ground I'ice, half a pound of butter, and half a pouu<l of tlour, and mix th'» 
whole into a paste with eggs (two are sufficient for this quantity). 

Iniliaii Meal Puffs. — In one quart of boiling milk stir eight tableepoon- 

fuls of meal, four spoonfuls of sugar; boil five minutes, stirring all the time; 
when cool add six beaten eggs; pour in buttered cups; bake half an hour. 

Steamed Bro-»vu Bread. — One quart of Indian meal, one pint of rye 
flour; stir these together and add one quart of sweet milk, ono cup of mo- 
lasses, two teaspoonfuls of soda, and a little salt. Steam for four hours. 

Tea Puffs. — Two and one-quarter cupa flour, three cups milk, three eggs 
— whites and yelks beaten separately; three teaspoonfuls of melted butter, 
a little salt. Bake in muffin tins in a hot oven. 

Block Biscuits. — Half a pound of butter beaten up to a cream, half a 
pound of ground rice, three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
loaf sugar, four eggs, and a little sal volatile. 

Old Maid Bread — One quart of flour, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
lard, one teaspoonful of salt, one teacup of yeast, one cup of milk; make up 
in a soft dough; reserve one-third of the flour for second rising. 

Rice Biscuits. — Sift seven ounces of sugar; then add to it half a pound 
of the best ground rice, seven ounces of butter, seven ounces of flour, and 
mix it into a paste with eggs — two aro sufficient for this quantity. 

Ginger Biscuits. — One pound of flour, half a pound of fresh butter, half 
a pound of powdered lump sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of ground 
ginger, two eggs. Bake five minutes in a quick oven. 

Indian Bread._Two cups of Indian meal, one-half cup each of rye 
meal and wheat flour, two thirds of a cup of molasses, one pint of sour or 
buttermilk, one teaspoonful of saleratus or cooking-soda, one teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Egg Sand-vviclies. — Boil fresh eggs five minutes; put them in cold 
water, and when quite cold peel them; then, after taking a little white off 
each end of the eggs, cut the remainder in four slices. Lay them between 
bread and butter. 

Com Gems. — Two cups cornmeal, two cups flour, two cups sweet milk, 
two eggs, three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sugar; bake in gem pans. 

Improving Bread. — If, when bread is taken from the oven, the loaves 
are turned topside down in the hot tins, and are allowed to stand a few min- 
utes the crust will be tender and will cut easily. 

Tea Rusks. — Three cups of flour, one cup of milk, three-fourths of a 
cup of sugar, two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, melted, two eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Jolinny Cake. — Take one piat of milk, one pint of meal, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful butter and 
one egg. 



COOKING RECIPES. 8H 

Tea Biscuits. — Two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter, one cup of 
milk, one or two eggs, half a cup of sugar, one cup of yeast; set at night, 
bake iu the morning. 

Cottage Bread. — One quart of flour, one large spoonful of sugar, one of 
butter, oae egg, one teacup of yeast; put to rise, and bake as biscuita. 



Jellies and Preserves. 
To Preserve Pine-Apples in Slices. — This can be made with the "Weet 
Indian pines. Choose ripe but sound ones, and cut them into slices about 
one inch thick, and cut off the rind. Weigh the slices, and to every two 
pounds of fruit put one pound and three-quarters of white sifted sugar. 
Boil them together in a preserviug pan for half an hour, and, if the slices are 
then tender, take them out carefully with a wooden spoon and place them 
upon a deep dish, boil the syrup for a short time longer, and then pour it 
over the sUces of pine-apple. This process must be repeated for three suc- 
•^essive days, after which the preserves may be put into jars and covered. 

Russian Jelly for Invalids. — Instead of throwing away the peel and 
core of apples from making a pie or pudding, put them iu a jar and pour 
over them a pint of hot water; put the jar by the lire or m the oven until the 
water tastes strongly of the apples; strain the apple-water oft", and throw 
away ths peel; then add to the apple-water one tablespoonful of large sago; 
set it to the fire until the sago has absorbed all the water; then put it in a 
mold, and it wUl be ready for iiae; to be eaten either hot or cold. A Uttle 
lemon juice added improves the flavor. The proportion of peel and water 
must be according to the quality of the apples, as some are so much shai-per 
than others. No decay should be allowed to be in the peel. Rhubarb may 
be used iu the same way. The jelly should taste strongly of fruit. Thia 
jelly is most refreshing in sickness. 

Grape Pi-esei-^-es. — Grapes partly ripe are delicious preserved in the 
following manner: Pick out those that are knotty or wormy; take the rest, a 
few at a time, in a coarse sieve, working them around with the hand until 
the seeds are loosened, when they will drop through, leaving the skins and 
pulp in the sieve. Drain the juice off the seeds, and to every pound of pulp, 
skin, and juice, allow half a pound of white sugar. Put all into the preserv- 
ing kettle and cook slowly about three-quarters of an hour. Put hot into 
jars, a brandy paper on top, and seal up. , 

Frosted Cuii-ants. — Currants, white of e.g^, cold water, pulverized 
sugar. Pick fine, even bunches, and dip them one at a time into a mixture 
of frothed white of egg and a very little cold water; drain them iintil nearly 
dry, and dip them in pulverized sugar; repeat the dip in sugar once or 
twice, and lay them upon white paper to dry. They will make a beautiful 
garnish for jellies and charlottes, and look well heaped in a dish by them- 
selves or with other fruit. Plums and grapes are very nice frosted in the 
same manner. Currants mixed with a suflBcient quantity or raspberries, 
put in a glass bowl and eaten with powdered sugar and plain cream, make 
a Tery nice dish. 

Chicken Jelly.- Cut half of an uncooked chicken into small pieces and 
break the bones; pour over it a quart of cold water, and boil slowly until it 



m THE HOUSEHOLD. 

ifl reduced to lesB than half; season with salt and a little pepper, if the latte? 
is allowed the invalid. Strain through a colander, then through a jelly-bag 
into a mold or bowl. It the chicken is quite tender, boil carefully the breast 
of the other half of it; cut it into dice and put it into the mold or bowl, and 
cover it with the liquid. When the jelly has hardened, scrape off the layer 
of fat at the top of the mold before turning the jelly on a platter. 

Mock Champagne Jelly— ^Take one quart of fine cider, mix this 
■with one pound of loaf sugar or sugar to taste, the juice of four lemons, the 
grated rind of one, and some pieces of stick cinnamon, the whites of two eggs 
well beaten, one box of gelatine; soak the gelatine in a pint of cold water one 
hour, then add a pint of boiling water, the cider and other ingredients; stir 
the mixture until the gelatine is well dissolved; then put it on the fire and 
boil five minutes, stx'ain through a jelly-bag into molds, set in a cool place or 
on ice to harden. 

Preseirt'ed Cherries — To ten pounds of cherries allow five pounds of 
Bugar; stone the fruit and put in a porcelain kettle in layers with the sugar; 
let it heat slowly until the juice is drawn out, or it may stand in a cool place, 
even over night; when stewed until tender, take the cherries from the syrup 
in a little strainer, and put them in cans placed on a board in boiling water. 
Boil the syrup until thick, then fill the cans and fasten the covers. 

Hints About Making Preserves. — It is not generally known that boil- 
ing fruit a long time, and skimming it well, without the sugar and without a 
cover to the preserving pan, is a very economical and excellent way — eco- 
nomical, because the bulk of the scum rises from the fruit, and not from the 
sugar, if the latter is good; and boiling it without a cover allows the evapo- 
ration of all the watery particles therefrom; the preserves keep firm and are 
well flavored. The proportions are, three-quarters of ^ pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit. Jam made in this way, of currants, strawberries, raspber- 
ries, or gooseberries, is excellent. 

liemon Syrap. — Take a dozen lemons; slice them thin; take ten pounds 
best white sugar; place a layer of sugar and one of lemons in an earthen 
jar; let them remain over night, then pour as much water over them as will 
make a syrup; place the jar in a kettle of water, and let them simmer but 
not boil; strain and bottle, and you will have a delicious flavoring when 
lemons are expensive. Lemonade can be made from it by using a few 
spoonfuls in water. The lemons can be placed on a plate after they are 
Btrained from the syrup and used in preserves for flavoring, 

Apple Jelly. — Make a syrup of a pound of sugar, putting in sufficient 
■water to dissolve it; when boiled enough, lay it in the peeled and cored 
halves of some large sour apples, let them simmer till tender, then lay them 
carefully in a dish so that they -will remain unbroken and in good shape; 
add another pound of sugar to the syrup, let it boil, skim it, and when partly 
cool pour it over the apples; when the dish gets cold each dainty piece of 
apple -will be surrounded by a deUcious jelly; eat them ■with cream. 

Orange Jelly. — One-half box of gelatine soaked in one-half pint of cold 
water for half an hour; then add the juice of five oranges and two lemons 
and one and one-half cups white sugar; turn on one pint of boiling water 
and set the pail containing the ingredients in a kettle of boihng water to 
lieat, but do not let it quite boil; then strata into au earthen yeesel to cooL 



COOKING RECIPES. 31^ 

Before bringing to the table cut in squares and place in a glass sauce dish. 
This is much liked, and ia very nice for the sick. 

Citron oi- "Watermelon Preserves— Peel and cut eight pounds of 
rinds, soak twenty-four hours in salt water (three tablespooufuls in water 
enough to cover), soak again in alum water, three tablespooufuls of alum as 
above; then soak in fresh water twenty-four hours. Take one ounce white 
ginger root to one and a half gallons water, boil till tender enough to pierce 
with a straw; then to eight pounds of fruit make a syrup of seven pounds of 
sugar, boil till transparent and season with cinnamon; dehcious. 

Orange Marmalade — Take equal weights of sour oranges and sugar. 
Grate the yellow i-ind from a fourth of the oranges. Cut all the fruit in 
hAlves at what might be called the "equator." Pick out the pulp, and free 
it of seeds. Drain ofl' as much jnice as you conveniently can, and put it on 
to boil with the. sugar. Let it come to a boil. Skim and simmer for about 
fifteen minutes, then put in the pulp and grated rind, and boil fifteen 
minutes longer. 

Uncooked Cun-ant Jelly. — To one pint of currant juice add one pound 
of granulated sugar, stir the juice very slowly into the sugar until the sugar 
is dissolved, then let it stand twenty-four hours and it will be stiff jelly. Tie 
it with paper dipped in brandy, and set it in the sun. Half a bushel of cur- 
rants makes twenty-two one-half pint glasses of jelly. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. — Take two calves' feet; add to them one gallon of 
water; boil them down to one quart; strain, and when cold remove all fat; 
then add the whites of six or eight eggs (well beaten), half a pound of sugar 
and the juices of four lemons; mix well. Boil for a mint;te, constantly stir- 
ring; then strain through a flannel bag. 

Raspberry Jam. — To every quart of ripe raspberries, allow a pound of 
the best loaf sugar. Put sugar and berries into a pan, and let them stand 
two or three hours. Then boil them in a porcelain kettle, taking off the 
Bcum carefully. When no more scum rises, mash them and boil them to 
smooth marmalade. When cold, put them in glass tumblers. 

Peacli Bntter. — Pare ripe peaches and put them in a preserving kettle, 
with sufficient water to boil them soft; then sift through a colander, re- 
moving the stones. To each quart of peach put one and one-half pounds 
sugar, and boil very slowly one hour. Stir often, and do not let them burn. 
Put in stone or glass jars and keep in a cool place. 

Coffee Jelly.— Take one package of Cox's gelatine and dissolve it in a 
pint of cold water. Let it stand until well dissolved, and then put two tea- 
cups of strong hot coffee in a quart cup, fill the measure up with boiling 
water and stir gelatine, coflfee and water together with a pint of sugar; after 
stirring let it settle, and pour the mixture through a strainer into molds. To 
be eaten cold with cream and sugar. 

White Cun-ant Jam._Boil together quickly for seven minutes equal 
quantities of fine white cun-ants carefully picked from their stalks, -and of 
the best pounded white sugar passed through a sieve. Stir the preserve 
gently the whole time, and be careful to slum it thoroughly. Just before it 
ia taken from the fire, throw in the strained juice of one good lemon to four 
pounds of the fruit. 



314 TEE HOUSEHOLD. 

PreseiT'ed Citron. — Cut tho citron in tliin slices, paro off the outaide 
riud and take out all the 8oeds, put in the preserve kettle with water enough 
to cover it; boil till it can be pierced easily with a fork, skim it out and 
etrain the water, placing it back in the kettle; allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to a pound of citron; dissolve the sugar in the liquor; cut 
three or four lemons into it and let it boil till it is as thick as required, then 
put in the citron and boil; when it is transparent, then it is done; if boUed 
too long the citron will be tough. 

Plum Marmalade. — Bub the plums, after draining, through a sieve or 
colander to take out the stones and skins. Add half a pound of sugar for 
each i>int of pulp, boil slowly, stirring well to prevent burning, until it is a 
smooth thick paste. Excellent marmalade is made by mixing the sifted 
pulp of wild plums and crab apples. 

Gooseberry Jelly. — Boil sis pounds of green iinripe gooseberries in six 
pints of water (they must be well boiled, but not burst too much); pour 
them into a basin and let them stand covered with a cloth twenty-four hours; 
then strain through a jelly bag, and to every pint of juice add one pound of 
sugar; boU for an houi-, then skim it and boil for one-half hour longer. 

Spiced Peaclies. — Pare, stone, and halve the fruit; allow nine pounds 
of peaches to four of sugar, and nearly one pint of vinegar; boil the fruit in 
water until tender; then pour off, and add the sugar and vinegar, with a few 
whole cloves, cinnamon and a Uttle mace. Boil half an hour. 

Q,ainee Marmalade. — Pare, core and quarter the quinces; boil them 
gently, uncovered, in water until they begin to soften; then strain them 
through a hair sieve, and beat in a mortar or wooden bowl to a pulp; add 
to each pound of fruit three-quarters of a pound of sugar; boil it till it be- 
comes stiff, and pour into small molds.. 

BlacltbeiTy Jelly. — This preparation of the blackberry is more agree- 
able than the jam, as the seeds, though veiy wholesome, are not agreeable 
to all. It is made in the same way as currant jelly; but the fruit is so sweet 
that it only requii'es half the weight of the juice in sugar. 

Jellies Witliowt Fruit. — To one pint of water put one-fourth of an 
ounce of alum; boil a minute or two; then add four pounds of white sugar; 
continue the boiling a little; strain while hot; and, when cold, put in half a. 
twenty-five cent bottle of extract of vanilla, strawberry, lemon, or any other 
flavor you desire for jelly. 

Crab Apple Jelly — Cut out the eyes and stalks of the apples; halve 
them and put in a preserving kettle with enough water to prevent burning. 
Cook until soft; then strain through a sieve, and afterward through a muslin 
bag; to every pound of juice allow one and one-quarter pounds of sugar. 
Boil gently for twenty minutes. 

Liemon Jelly — Isinglass, two ounces; water, one quart, boil; add 
sugar, one pound, clarify, and, when nearly cold, add the juice of five 
lemons, and the grated yellow rinda of two oranges and two lemons; mix 
well, strain off the peel, and put it into glasses or bottles. 

Blackberry Jam. — To each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar; then put together and boil from one-half to three-fourths of an hour. 



COOKING RECIPES. 316 

Currant Jelly — Fill a jar with currants and place it in a kettle of boil- 
ing water. Boil till the fruit is well softened, stirring frequently, then strain 
through a cloth, and to every pint add a pound of white sugar. Boil ten 
minutes, skimming until quite clear. Black currant or grape jelly can be 
made in the same way. 

Apple Jam — Core and pare the apples; chop them well; allow equal 
quantity in weight of apples and sugar; make a syrup of the sugar by adding 
a httle water, boiling and skimming well, then throw in a little grated lemon 
peel and a little white ginger. Boil until the fruit looks clear. 

Plum Preser»'es.— Weigh your plums, scald them, put on a dish or 
waiter; be sure to strain; weigh as much sugar as fruit, and to every pound 
add a gill of water; let sugar boil, skim, add scalded fruit, cook two hours 
and a half; put in air-tight jars. 

PicUled Peaches and Plums._To seven pounds fruit, three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar, one ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon. Scald 
vinegar and sugar three mornings in succession, and pour on the fruit. The 
third morning scald altogether. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Wash eight ounces of tapioca well; then soak in one 
gallon fresh water, five or six hours; add the peels of eight lemons, and set 
all on to heat; simmer till clear; add the juice of the eight lemons with wine 
and sugar to taste; then bottle. 

Isinglass Jelly._Put four ounces isinglass and two ounces cloves into 
one gallon water, boil it down to half a gallon; strain it upon four pounds of 
loaf sugar; add, while cooling, a little wine; then bottle. 

Gooseberry Jelly. — Sugar, four pounds; water, two pounds; boil to- 
gether; it will be nearly solid when cold; to this syrup, add an equal weight 
of gooseberiy juice; give it a short boil, cool, then pot it. 

Cranberry Jelly. — Make a veiy strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix 
it with a double quantity of cranberry juice. Sweeten and boil it up; then 
strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not bo 
clear. 

Peach Marmalade. — Peaches too ripe for preserving answer for mar- 
malade. Pare and quarter them, allowing three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar to each pound of fruit, and half a pint of water to each pound of sugar. 
Boil one hour and a half, stirring constantly. 

Goosebeii-y Jam—Take what quantity you please of red, rough, ripe 
gooseberries, take half the quantity of lump sugar, break them well and boil 
them together for half an hour or more, if necessary. Put into pots and 
cover with paper. 

Pickled Apples.— Apple pickles are delicious. Pare and halve the 
apples, removing the cores carefully, to keep them in good shape. Steam 
till soft. Put spiced vinegar over them. 



Puddings, Pies, Etc. 
Apple Fritters. — First pare the apples, and then with an apple-corer 
out out the core from the wenter of each; then cut them across in shoes 



316 TITE ITOtrSHS-OLP. 

about one-third of an inch thick, having a round opening in the center. 
Next make a fritter batter by the following recipe: Beat three eggs well; 
add a part of one pint of milk and a little salt; then the remainder of the 
pint of milk and one pint of flour alternately, beating it all quickly. The 
slices of apples must now be immediately dip)ped in this batter and fried in 
boiling lard; sprinkle over with sugar and serve in a circle, one overlapping 
the other, with or without sweet sauce in the center. 

Amber Pudding. — Four eggs, their weight in sugar, butter and flour, 
, peel of one lemon, and grated rinds of two; beat the butter with your hand 
to a cream, then add the flour, sugar and beaten eggs by degi-ees, then the 
peel and juice of the lemons; butter a mold, and when all is well mixed fill 
it quite full; put a buttered white paper over' the top and tie well over with 
a cloth, put iu a pan of boiling water and boil for about four hours. 

Apple Cliarlotte—Take a loaf of stale bread, and butter the slices; 
pare and sUce a dozen apples; take a lemon, grate the skin, and save the 
juice; place at the bottom of a stoneware bakmg dish a layer of apples; scat- 
ter brown sugar on it, some of the lemon gratings, and a little juice; theu 
put in a layer of the buttered bread; keep on until your dish is full, having 
the crust on top; bake in a moderately hot oven. Do not make it too sweet. 

Apple Pudding. — Peel and quarter enough apples to cover the bottom 
of a deep tin plate; then make a batter of sour milk, soda and flour, with a 
tablespoonful of lard to enough flour to make a batter that will cover the 
apples. This should not be thicker than for pancakes. Pour it over the 
apples and bake till brown. Then, when done, turn it on a large plate with 
the crust down. Over the apples scatter sugar and cinnamon. 

Apple Souffle. — One pint of steamed apples, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, half a cup of sugar, the white of six eggs and the yelks of three, and 
a slight grating of niitmeg. Stir into the hot apples, the butter, sugar, and 
nutmeg, and the yelks of the eggs well beaten. When this is cold, beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into the mixture. Butter a three- 
pint dish, and turn the soufiie into it. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 
Serve immediately with any kind of sauce. 

All the Year Round Pudding — Line a pie-dish with paste, spread on 
three ounces of any kind of jam (raspberry is the best); then beat well in a 
basin the following: Three ounces of bread crumbs, the same of sugar and 
butter, the rind and juice of half a large lemon; add this to the pasti^y and 
jam, and bake half an hour. 

An Excellent Pudding._One-half pound suet, shred fine; one half 
pound grated bread crumbs; one-quarter pound of loaf sugar, the yelks of 
four eggs and whites of two well beaten; two tablespoonfuls of orange mar- 
malade or sliced citron, if preferred. To be put into a butter mold and 
boiled for two hours. To be served with wine poured over it, or sauce. 

Pudding a I'Elegante.— Cut thin sHces of light white bread, and line a 
pudding-shape with them, putting in alternat-e layers of the bread and 
orange marmalade, or any other preserve, till the mold is nearly full. Pour 
over ail a pint of warm milk, in which four well-beaten eggs have been 
mixed. Cover the mold with a cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Serve 
ydih YfiuQ sauce, 



. COOKING RECIPES. 317 

Delicious Apple Sauce. — Pare and slice thin as many apples as you 
wish. Put them inro a tin basin or pudding dish, ^vith enough sugar to 
make them sweet and a little water. Bake slowly until soft. They will 
♦urn a rich red, and have a flavor far exceeding stewed apples. 

Apple Dumplings. — Make them the usual way, place them in a deep 
pudding dish; make a liquor of water, sugar, butter, and a. little nutmeg; 
the liquor should very nearly cover the dumplings; bake on one side, turn 
them on the other; bake about three-fourths of an hour. 

Albany Puffs—Beat the yelks of six eggs until they are very light; stir 
in a pint of sweet milk, a large pinoh of salt, the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a froth, and flour enough to make a batter about as thick as boiled custard. 
Bake in gem pans in a quick oven. 

Apple Custard—Take a half cup of melted butter, two cups sugar, 
three cups stewed apples, four eggs, whites and yelks separately beaten. 
Bake in pie plates in bottom crust. 

Brown Bettj- — -Take one cup bread crumbs, two cups chopped sour 
apples, one half cup sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, two tablespoonfula 
butter cut into small bits. Butter a deep dish and put a layer of chopped 
apple at the bottom, sprinkle with sugar, a few bits of butter and cinnamon, 
cover with bread crumbs, then more apple. Proceed in this way until the 
dish is full, having a layer of crumbs on top. Cover closely and steam three 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, then uncover and brown quickly. 
Eat warm with sugar and cream, or sweet sauce. This is a cheap but good 
pudding, better than many a richer one. 

Bread Pudding. — Soak two or three French rolls cut into slices in a 
pint of cream or good milk; add the yelks of six eggs, beaten, some sugar, 
orange-flower water, three pounded macaroons, and a glass of white wine; 
tie it up ill a basin, or buttered cloth; put the pudding in boiling water, and 
let it boil for half an hour. Serve with wine sauce. 

Baked Lemon Pudding. — Mix the following ingredients together in 
the order in which they are placed: Moist sugar, one-quarter pound; bread 
crumbs, six ounces; eggs, well beaten, three; lemon peel grated and juice, 
two; bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. — Pare and core as many apples as will stand in a 
dieh, and fill the holes with sugar. Make a custard of a quart of milk, 
eight eggs, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Pour it over the apples, grate 
a nutmeg over the top, and bake one hour. 

Fried Bananas. — Peel and slice the bananas, sprinkle with salt, dip in 
thin batter, and fry in butter. Serve immediately. 

Cup Plum Pudding. — Take one cup each of raisins, currants, flour, 
bread crumbs, suet, and sugar; stone and cut the raisins, wash and dry the 
currants, chop the suet, and mix all the above ingredients well together; 
then add two ounces of candied peel and citron, a little mixed spice, salt, 
and ginger, say half a teaspoonful of each; stir in four well-beaten eggs and 
milk enough to make the mixture so that the spoon will stand upright in it; 
tie it loosely in a cloth, or put it in a mold; plunge it then into boiling water, 
»ud boil for three and a half hours. 



818 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

Cranberry Sauce—Waah and pick over the cranberries; put on to cook 

in a tin or porcelain vessel, allowing a teacup of water to each quart. Stew 
alowly, stirring often until they are thick as marmalade. Take from the fire 
in Uttle over an hour, if they have cookod steadily; sweeten plentifully with 
white sugar and strain through a coarse net into a mold wet with cold water. 
Do this the day before using, and at dinner time turn from the mold into a 
glass dish. 

Chocolate Pudding — One quart of milk, fourteen even tablespoonfula 
of grated bread crumbs, twelve tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, six eggs, 
one tablespoonful vanilla; sugar to make very sweet. Separate the yelka 
and whites of four eggs; beat up the four yelks and two whole eggs together 
veiy light with the sugar. Put the milk on the range, and when it comes to 
a perfect boil pour it over the bread and chocolate; add the beaten eggs and 
sugar, and vanilla; be sure it is sweet enough; pour into a buttered dish; 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. When cold, and just before it is served, 
have the four whites beaten with a little powdered sugar, and flavor with 
vanilla, and use as a meringue. 

Chocolate Cream Custards — Set to boil a quart of milk; mix with half 
a cup of cold milk two ounces of grated sweet chocolate, pour some of the 
boiUng milk into it, and then pour all back into the pan of boiling milk, stir-i 
ring it all the time; when quite heated and about coming to the boiling point, 
add the yelks of six eggs which have been beaten with a cup of powdered 
sugar; when these are nicely blended add three whites, beaten with a little 
vanilla, keeping the three other whites for frosting; put in cups, and a table- 
spoonful of the frosting on the top of each cup. 

CranbeiTy Pudding. — Cranberry pudding is made by pouring boiling 
water on a pint of dried bread crumbs; melt a tablespoonful of butter and 
stir in. When the bread is softened add two eggs, and beat thoroughly with 
the bread. Then put in a piat of the stewed fi-uit and sweeten to your taste. 
Bake in a hot oven for half an hour. Fresh fruit may be used in place of the 
cranberries. Slices of peaches put in layers make a dehcious variation. 

Coffee Custard. — Mix one egg with a cup of freshly-ground coffee, pour 
on it a pint of boiling water; boil five minutes. Pour it off clear into a sauce- 
pan, add a pint of cream and boil. Beat from five to eight eggs -rt-ith one 
and one half cups of sugar, and pour the boiling mixture over this, !j[irriug 
it well. Set the whole in boiling water, and stir ixntil it thickens. 

Cranberry Roll. — Stew a quart of cranberries ui just water enough to 
keep them from burning. Make very sweet, strain and cool. Make a paste, 
and when the cranberry is cold spread it on the paste about an inch thick. 
KoUit, tie it close in a flannel cloth, boil two hours, and serve with sweet 
sauce. Stewed apples or other fruit may be used in the same way. 

Delicious Fritters— Put three tablespoonfiils of flour into a bowl, and 
pour over it sufficient hot water to make it into a stiff paste, taking care to 
stir it well to prevent its getting lumpy. Leave it a little time to cool, and 
then break into it, without beating them first, the yelks of four egga, the 
whites of two, and stir and beat all together. Have your fat or lard hot, and 
drop a dessertspoonful of batter in at a time, and fry a light brown. Serve 
on a hot dish with a spoonful of jam or marmalade dropped in between each 
fritter. 



COOKING RECIPES. 319 

CroMr's Nest. — Fill a deep pudding tin or dish with apples cut in thin 
slioee; sugar and cinnamon, or lemon, to sweeten and flavor to taste, and a 
little water; cover with a thick crust; bake until apples are tender; serve 
hot with bard sauce, or with cream and sugar; be sure to cut air holes in 
the crust to let the steam escape. 

Cream Fritters. — Beat three eggs to a froth, add half a pint of cream, 
the same of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, one pint flour, two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder; stir to a smooth batter; fry in hot lard the same as doughnuts. 
These are good hot or cold. Serve with sweetened cream or maplo 
molasses. 

Cake Pudding. — Take odd bits of cake (if two or three kinds all the 
better), break in small pieces, put them in a pudding dish which has been 
previously buttered, make a rich custard; pour over the cake; bake or 
steam. It is made still nicer by adding cocoanut frosting, and setting in the 
oven till of a Ught brown. 

Cocoannt Puddiug. — One-half pound of butter, one-half pound of 
sugar, whites of eight eggs whipped to a froth. The white portion of one 
cocoanut grated into minute particles. Grease pan with butter, and bake. 
For this pudding desiccated cocoanut answers as well as fresh cocoanut. 

Castard Pudding. — Take a pint of cream, six eggs well beaten, two 
spoonfuls of flour; half a nutmeg grated, and salt and sugar to taste; mix 
them together; butter a cloth and pour in the batter; tie it up, put it into a 
saucepan of boiling water, and boil it an hour and a half. Serve with 
melted butter. 

Cream Batter Pudding. — Half pint sour cream, half pint sweet milkj 
half pint flour, three eggs, half teaspoonful soda, a little salt.. Beat eggs 
separately, adding the yelks last. Bake in a slow oven, and you ^vill find 
this the queen of puddings. 

Egg Pudding. — Take any number of eggs, their weight in flour, brown 
sugar and butter, and a few currants or chopped raisins, as preferred. Mix 
well together by means of the eggs. Bake in buttered molds; serve hot, 
with wine sauce. 

Cracker Pudding. — Pour one quart boiling water over six soft crackers, 
let stand until very soft; add three or four eggs, one cup raisins, one-fourth 
spoonful salt, sweeten, flavor or spice, bake. Very nice. 

Citron Pudding. — Mx one quart of cream with three spoonfuls of 
sugar, one-half pound of flour, one-half pound of citron peel, yelks of six 
eggs and a little nutmeg. Bake in teactips in a quick oven. 

Cottage Pudding. — One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one pint 
of flour, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one egg. 

Cracked Wlieat Pudding — Cracked wheat mixed with milk in the 
proportion of half a cup to a quart, and flavored with cinnamon and a raisin 
or two, makes a very good pudding. 

Cream Custard. — Eight eggs, beat and put into two quarts of cream; 
•weeten to taste; add nutmeg and cinnamon, 



820 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

Date or Prune Pudding — Take a quart of milk, beat six eggs, half 
the ■whites in half a piut of milk, and foiir spoonfuls of flour with a little salt, 
and two of beaten ginger; then by degrees mix in all the milk and a pound 
of dates, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour; melt butter and pour over it. 
Damsons are veey nice instead of the dates or pi-unes. 

A Delicious Pudding — gift two tablespoonfuls pf fiour, and mix with 
the beaten yelks of six eggs, add gradually one pint of sweet cream, a quar- 
ter of a pound of citron cut in very thin slices, and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; mix thoroughly, pour into a buttered tin, and bake twenty-five min- 
utes. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Danfly Pudding. — One and one-half pints of milk, four eggs, sugar to 
taste. Boil the milk and yelks and one teaspoonful of corn starch. Beat the 
■whites to a stiff froth, after the cream is cooked, put it in a dish to cool. 
Then drop the whites, after sweetening, on the cream. Brown the top a few 
minutes. 

I^nglisli Plum Pudding. —One-half pound currants, one pound raisins, 
one-half pound of beef suet, butter the size of an egg, three eggs, one nut- 
meg, two teaspoonfuls of lemon, three-fourths of a pint of milk, a Uttle salt, 
flour sufficient to stiffen, mix well together; put into a bowl and bake four 
hours; cOver bowl with a cloth. Sauce. — Three tablespoonfuls com starch, 
one-half pint milk, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter; boil 
five minutes. 

Economical Family Pudding. — Bruise with a wooden spoon, through 
a colander, six large or twelve middle-sized potatoes, beat four eggs, mix 
■with a pint of good milk, stir in the potatoes, six ounces sugar and flavoring, 
butter a dish, bake half an hour. This receipt is simple and economical, as 
cold potatoes, which may have been kept two or three days, till a sufScient 
quantity iS collected, will answer quite well. 

Egg Sauce. — Boil half a dozen eggs hard, when cold remove the shell, 
cut each egg in half crosswise, and each half into four quarters. Put them 
into one pint of melted butter. 

Floating Island Custard— One-half gallon sweet milk, eight eggs 
beaten to a froth, yelks and whites beaten separately, add one tablespoonful 
of flour and a little milk. Set the milk on the stove in a tin basin or a por- 
celain kettle, bring it to a boiling heat, add the mixture of yelks of eggs and 
flour, let it boil up thick, stirring constantly. Flavor ^vith lemon unless 
Bome other flavoring is preferred (lemon is best), beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten the custard to your taste, place the white of 
eggs on top, let it remain over the stove a minute, then take it off and serve. 
This makes a very nice dessert if made properly, and is good either hot or 
cold. This receipt is enough for eight or ten persons. 

Orange Fritters. — One pound of flour, one pint of milk ■with a tea- 
spoonful of salt in it, and one-quarter of a pound of melted butter, and 
three eggs beaten very light. Prepare four oranges by removing the yellow 
rind and every particle of white pith; di'vide into small pieces without 
breaking the sldn. In each spoonful of batter put a piece of orange, and 
fry a golden bro'wn; sift powdered sugar over as soon as taken ftom 
the pan. 



. COOKlXCf RECIPES. 321 

Fntit Roll—Make a crust as usual, which roll out in a long sheet. Cut 
« quantity of fruit, peaches, apples, or plums, or small fruit mashed, or jam, 
which spread thickly over and sprinkle ■with sugar; roll up and fold the 
ends over; then wrap in a strong cloth and tie closely, and place in a ateamer. 
Serve with sauce or sweetened cream. 

Pig Pudding — Take a quarter of a pound of figs, poand them in a 
mortar, and mix gradually half a pound of bread crumbs, and four ouncfts 
of beef suet, minced very small, add four ounces of pounded sugar, and mix 
the whole together, with two eggs beaten up, and a good teacup of new milk. 
When all these ingredients are well mixed, fill a mold and boil for four 
hours, 

Farmers' Pudding—Heat one quart of milk to boiling, then stir in, 
slowly, one teacup of maizena. Mix with this about six good apples, pared 
and sliced, and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one of butter, and a little 
allspice and nutmeg. Pour the whole uito a deep dish, and bake until done, 
which ^^ill be in about forty minutes. 

Prnit Pudding. — One egg well beaten, one cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups of berries, half cup of sugar, one spoonful of butter, one cup 
bread crumbs. Bake in a shallow dish. 

Ginger Pndding.—Five eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups of butter, 
four cups of flour, one cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, ginger and allspice to taste. Bake in a pan or steam in a mold 
or pan. 

Sauce for Ginger Pudding._One-half pint of molasses, one pint of 
sugar, one-half pint of butter, ginger to suit the taste, and a httle water. 
Boil all together until the sauce becomes somewhat thick. 

Golden Pudding— Half a pound of bread crumbs, quarter of a pound 
of suet; quarter of a pound of marmalade, quarter of a pound of sugar, four 
eggs* mix the suet and bread crumbs in a basin, finely minced, stir all the 
ingredients well together, beat the eggs to a froth; when M'ell mixed put into 
a mold or buttered basin, tie down with a floured cloth, and boil two hours. 
Serve with powdered sugar over it. 

Graham Pudding— One cup of graham flour, half a cup of sweet 
milk, a little salt, a teaspoonful of baking powder. Turn over a pudding- 
dish full of sliced apples sweetened with either sugar or molasses. Bake 
till thoroughly done. This is a good dish for those who cannot eat rich pie- 
crust, and may be varied by using different kinds of fruit. 

Hard Times Pudding._Half a pint of molasses, half a pint of water, 
two teaspoonfuls of soda, one teaspoonful of salt. Thicken with flour 
enough to make a batter about like that for a cup cake. Put this in a pud- 
ding-bag; allow room to rise. It would be safe to have the pudding-bag 
about half full of the batter. Let this boil steadily for three hours. Sauce 
to serve with it is made thus: Mix two teaspoonfuls of either white or browa 
sugar with a lump of butter the size of a butternut; a Uttle salt and one 
large spoonful of flour should be mixed with the butter and sugar. When 
free from lumps pour boiling water slowly over it, stirring all the time. Let 
it boil up onoe or twice to make it of the desired tbickneBa. 



322 TEE UOUSEllOLn. 

Hard Sauce for Puddings — Stir to cream one cup of butter with three 
cups powdered siigar; when light, beat in juice of a lemon, two teaspoon- 
fuls nutmeg. 

Home Pudding. — One pint of milk, yelks of two eggs, three crackera 
rolled fine, and bake. Use three-fourths of a cup of sugai-, and the whitea 
of the eggs for frosting; spread over the jjudding and return to the oven for 
a few minutes. 

Indian Pudding— Boil two quarts of milk, and while boiling stir in 
cornmeal enough to make it of the consistency of mush', take one cup ol 
Buet, one cup of molasses, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon and ginger 
and stir into the pudding; scald all together well, and then set away to get 
cool; add three well-beaten eggs, butter, size of egg, one cup each of cur- 
rants and raisins, salt and sugar enough to serve without sauce if you wish; 
then bake three hours slowly. Brandy sauce makes it equal to English 
plum pudding. 

Indian Apple Pudding. — Pour three pints of scalded milk over one 
pint of sifted Indian meal, stir in two large spoonfuls of molasses, two tea- 
epoonfuls of cinnamon or ginger, and one teaspoonful of salt, add a dozen 
apples, pared and sliced very thin. Bake in a yellow nappy for three hours. 
Serve with a sweet sauce. 

Kiss Pudding. — One quart milk, three tablespoonfuls cornstarch, the 
yelks of four eggs, one-half cup sugar and a little salt. Place part of it, with 
salt and sugar, on the stove and boil. Dissolve the cornstarch in the rest of 
the milk and stir into the boiling milk; also, add the yelks of the eggs and 
flour. Frosting. — The beaten whites of the towr eggs, with one-half cup of 
sugar flavored with lemon. Cover the pudding and nicely brown. Save a 
httle frosting to moisten the top, then put grated cocoanut over top to give 
it the appearance of snowflake. 

Kent Pudding. — One quart of milk, six ounces of ground rice, three 
eggs, currants, sugar, and spice to taste. The milk and rice should be boiled 
overnight, and the other ingredients mixed in the next morning. Stir the 
mixture well before putting it into the oven. 

Liemon Meringue Pudding. — One qiiart milk, two cups bread crumbs, 
four eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup white sugar, one large lemon, juice 
and half the rind grated; soak the bread in the milk; add the beaten yelks 
with the butter and sugar rubbed to a cream, also the lemon. Bake in a 
buttered dish until firm and slightly brown; draw to the door of the oven 
and cover with a meringue of the whites whipped to a froth, yrith three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and a little lemon juice. Brown very shghtly; 
sift powdered sugar over it and eat cold. You may make an orange pud- 
ding m the same way. 

Lemon Custard — One cup of sugar, one of sweet milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, three eggs, one lemon— mix lemon juice with yelks and sugar, 
add milk next, then the butter and flour. When the custards are cool 
epread on the whitea, well sweetened, and set back in the stove to brown. 

Magic Pastry. — Two tablespoonfuls of povinded sugar, four ounces of 
fi!iC flour, two egga. Mis all together very smoothly, and fry in lard. 



COOKING RECIPES. 323 

Ijemon Flitters. — Among the nicest of fruit fritters are those made of 
lemon. To cne cup of milk and one egg allow the juice and pulp of one 
lemon. Thetse may be served with sauce; with the grated peel of half the 
lemon added to flavor the sauce. 

Lemon Pudding. — One pound of sifted sugar, one pint of cream, one- 
half pound of butter, six eggs, and one lemon. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the well beaten eggs, the grated lemon both pulp and peel, 
and the ci'eam. Stir well, and bake. 

• I^enion Flup-Jack.s. — One pint of milk, four eggs, juice of one lemon, 
flour to make a light batter, pinch of soda. Fry in hot lard. Serve with 
sugar and nutmeg. 

Molasses Sauce. — One cup of molasscs, half a cup of water, one table- 
spoonful of butter, a little cinnamon or nutmeg (about a half teaspoonful), 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoontuls of vinegar. Boil ail 
together for twenty minutes. Lemon juice may be used in place of vinegar 
if desired. This is very nice for an apple or rice pudding. 

niaple Sugar Sauce. — Break half a pound of maple sugar in small bits, 
put it into a thick saucepan over the fire and melt the sugar until it forms a 
clear syrup; then remove it from the fire and stir in two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of butter cut in small bits. Serve the sauce hot with any fruit pudding. 

Mountain Dew Pudding.—Thi'ee crackers, rolled, one pint of milk, 
yelks of two eggs, and a small piece of butter. Bake one-half hour, then 
take the whites of the eggs, beat to a stiff froth, add one cup of sugar, and 
put it on the top and bake fifteen minutes. 

Orange Pudding. — Peel and cut in bits five oi'anges, rejecting the 
eeeds. Sprinkle a cup of sitgar over it. Boil a pint of milk, to which add 
the yelks of three eggs, well beaten, with one tablespoonful of cornstarch. 
When it thickens pour it over the fruit. Beat the whites of eggs with a 
tablespoonful of white sugar. Frost the pudding and brown it in the oven. 
Substitute strawberries or peaches if you like. 

Peach Pudding. — Beat the yelks of six eggs and one cup of sugar light; 
moisten one tablespoonful of cornstarch with milk and stir in the yelks of 
the eggs; flavor to taste. Stir this mixture in one quart of boiling milk. Let 
it boil up once. Line bottom of a pudding dish with peaches, peeled, cut in 
half, and sugared. Pour over them a layer of the custard; then peaches, 
and so on until the dish is full, leaving the last layer of custard; cover the 
tops with the whites of the eggs whipped to a froth; put in the ov€n and 
brown. Serve hot or cold. 

To Ice Pastry —To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for 
fruit tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on a plate and 
beat it to a stiff froth. When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with 
this, and sift over some powdered sugar. Put it back into the oven to set 
the glaze, and in a few minutes it will be done. Great care should be taken 
that the paste does not catch or bum in the oveu^ which it.ia very liable to 
do after the icing is laid on. 

Orange Roly Poly — Make a short, light dough, the same as is used 
for any dumplings, roll into an oblong shape and cover the paste thickly with 



S24 TEE HOUSEHOLD. 

sweet oranges, peeled, stirred thin and seeded; spiinkle mth sugar, roll up 
closely, folding and pinching down the edge to keep in the syrup. Steam an 
hour and a half. Serve with cream and sugar or hard sauce. 

Pail Pudding. — This is a New England dish, and is nice where appe- 
tites are expansive. Take three cups of fine rye meal, three cups of Indian 
meal, one egg and three tablespoonfuls of molasses; add a little salt and 
allspice, and enoiigh rich sweet milk to make a batter stiff enough to drop 
from a spoon. Fry to a good brown in hot lard. 

Pineapple Fritters — One pint of flour, half pint of milk, thi-ee eggs, 
half teaspoonful soda, thi-ee-fourths teaspoonful cream tartar, one table- 
spoonful sugar, salt to taste. Peel and slice one juicy pineapple, and cover 
with sugar; let it stand over night; stir in the batter when ready to fry. To 
be eaten while hot, with sugar. 

Pineapple Pudding. — Peel the pineapple, taking care to get all the 

specks out, and grate it; take its weight in sugar, and half of its weight in 
butter; vwh these to a cream and stir them into the apple; then add five 
eggs and a cup of cream. It may be baked with or without the paste crust, 
as you may prefer. 

PeacH Potpie. — Put a plain pie ciMist round the edge of a pan; cut up 
some peaches, and put a layer of them into your pan, then a layer of sugar 
and nutmeg; cover with a crust, and bake slowly for two or thi'ee hours. 

Plwm Pudding. — One pcund raisins, one pound currants, one-half 
pound citron, one-half pound candied fruit, one pound suet, one pound 
sugar, one pound mixed flour and bread crumbs, eight eggs, spices to 
taste; boil four hours. 

Pop-Overs. — One pint milk, one pint flour, butter size of a walnut, three 
eggs, beaten Hght, pinch of salt, add eggs last. Bake in cups, filling them 
half full. 

Puff Pudding. — One and a half cups of flour, one of milk, two eggs, 
and a little salt; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes in pattypans. Serve 
tvith sauce. 

Q,neen of Puddings. — One pint of bread crumbs, one quart -of sweet 
milk, yelks of four eggs, piece of biitter size of an egg. Flavor and bake. 
Beat the white of an egg to a froth with a cup of pulverized siigar. Spread 
over the pudding a layer of jelly, pour the eggs over and brown slightly. 
Serve with cold sauce. 

Q,uick Pudding.- -Boil some rice; when done soft, break in three eggs, 
half a cup of cream or milk, and flavor to suit the taste. Give it one boil, 
and send it to the table with bits of butter on the top. 

S-weet Potato Pudding. — Beat to a cream one pound of sugar and one 
pound of butter, and two pounds of potatoes, mashed fine, five eggs, one 
wineglass of wine, and haK a pint of milk. Bake in a crust. 

Steamed Pudding. — One coffeecup of buttermilk, one-third of a cup of 
sugar, one egg, a little salt, a heaping teaspoonful of soda, about 
three and one-half teacups of flour, and one small cup of raiBins. Steam 
two hours. 



00 KIN & TIE Oil* ES. 325 

"Stixr Rice Pnddlng. — Mix four large teaspoonfula of rice flour witb 
half a pint of cold milk, and stir it into a quart of boiling milk until it boila 
again; then remove, stu" in butter the size of an egg and add a Uttle salt; 
let it cool, and add four eggs, Avell beaten, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, 
grated nutmeg, half wineglassful of brandy or other flavoring; bake in a 
buttered diah twenty minutes. To be eaten hot with sauce. 

Rice and Apples. — Core as many nice apples as will fill a dish; boil 
them in light syrup. Prepare one-quarter of a pound of rice in milk with 
sugar and salt, put some of the rice iu the dish, and put in the apples; then 
fill up the intervals with rice, and bake it in the oven until it is a fine color. 

Raspberry Fritters. — Make a batter of a pint of milk, one egg, a little 
salt, and enough flour to make a mixture that will drop from a spoon. Add 
a cup of fine raspberiies, with a tablespoonful of granulated sugar mixed 
■with them. Fry in hot lard and dash with powdered sugar. 

Raisin Pudding. — One quart of sweet milk, six eggs, one-half teacup 
of butter, one-half teacup sugar, one teacup raising with seeds removed, 
flour suflicient to make thick batter. Pour into a mold and steam until 
cooked. Butter and sugar flavored for sauce. 

Rice Fritters. — Take one cup of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two eggs beaten lightly, and milk enough to make this a 
thick batter; beat all together well and bake on a griddle. 

Raspberry Custard. — Take three gills of rasberry juice and dissolve in 
it a pound of white sugar, mix it with a pint of boiling cream, stir until quite 
thick, and serve in custard glasses. 

Strawberry Short-Oake — To make a nice strawberry short-cake, make 
a nice, rich biscuit crust, bake in a round tin, and when baked cut in two 
parts with a sharp knife; put a thick layer of berries, sweetened to taste, on 
one half, then lay on the other half and fix in the same manner. Some 
think a cup of sweet cream poured over the top layer a great addition. The 
berries should be mashed before placing them on the cake. 

Swiss Pudding. — Put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced apples with 
sugar between, till the dish is quite full; let the crumbs be the uppermost 
layer; then pour melted butter over and bake it. Or butter a dish, strew 
bread crumbs thickly over it, add apples, raspberries, or any fruit sweet- 
ened, alternately with bread crumbs, until the dish is full; then pour melted 
butter, or rather small lumps of butter, over the top and bake. 

Steamed Apples. — Select nice, sweet apples; wash and place them in a 
pan; turn a little water in the pan and stew; one-half cup sugar over as 
many apples as will cover the bottom of the pan; then cover with another 
pan and cook till done. If preferred, you can stew the juice down and turn 
it over the apples. They are much nicer than when baked. 

Suet Padding. — Chop fine one cup of raisins and one-half cup of suet 
(one cup, if wanted very rich), add two cups of sweet milk, one cup of 
Bugar, four cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two teaspoon- 
fula of soda, and a little salt. Cover tight and steam or boU two houra. 
Leave room to swell. Pork chopped very fine, or a little less in measure of 
pork fat, may be used. Eat with liquid sauce. 



82fi TBE nOUSEHOLD. 

Simple Dessert. — Put eight crackers iu a deep dish, pour enough warta 

water or milk over them to just cover them, and when soaked, which will 
not take longer than ten minutes, sprinkle with sugar, cover with cream, 
garnish with preserved peaches, pears, or quinces, and serve. Try it. 

Sno-w-Ball Pudding. — Take two teacups of rice, wash, and boil until 
tender; pare and core twelve large sour apples (leaving the apples whole); 
fill the apples with rice, and put it around outside; tie each one in a separate 
cloth and drop in boiling water; sei-ve while hot with cream and sugar, or 
any saTi«e desired. 

Pudding Sauce. — One cup of sugar, an even tablespoonful of flour, and 
the same of butter. Mix to a cream. Put boiling water to them, mix thor- 
oughly and put on the stove to boil fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Flavor with grated nutmeg. 

Pudding Sauce. — Take the supei'fluous juice from a can of peaches, 
and heat it to boiling. Mix flour, butter and sugar in about equal quantities, 
add a little vanilla, and cook the mixture in the hot peach juice. This is 
delicious for almost any kind of steamed or fruit pudding. 

A Fine Pudding Sauce. — When a sponge pudding is to be eaten hot an 
excellent sauce is made of sugar and butter whipped to a cream, strawber- 
ries or other fruit crushed into it, and a little good wine. If properly made 
no better sauce can be used for a sponge pudding. 

Ste>ved Apples— Pare your apples and place them in a steamer, with a 
clovo in each; then put the steamer over a pot of boiling .vater, until soft; 
thru take them up in the fruit dish and shake powdered sugar over them. 

Sweet Apple Custard. — Pare and core sweet apples; stew them in water 
till tender; strain them through a colander, add sugar and spice to taste, 
and make them like pumpkin pies. 

Sallie liunn — One quart of flour, four eggs, one pint of milk, one table- 
spoonful of lard, same of butter, two spoonfuls of sugar, one gill of yeaet. 

Tapioca Custard. — After soaking a cup of tapioca until perfectly soft, 
drain off any surjalua water and add a quart of new milk; set the dish in one 
of boiling water to prevent sticking or burning; sweeten to suit tlie taste; 
when it begins to grow a little thick, add the yelks of four eggs, beaten, -nith 
one tablespoonful of sugar; remove from the fire as soon as it becomes the 
consistency of cream, or it will be too hard when cold; flavor to taste after it 
is done, and spread the whites of eggs over the top; brown a delicate color 
in the oven. 

Tiptop Pudding — One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one 
cup of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, yelks of four eggs, a piece of but- 
ter size of an egg, then bake. "When done spread fresh strawberries over 
the top, or if not in season for strawberries, use a cup of preseiwed rasp- 
berries; pour over that a meringue made with the white of the egg, a cup of 
Bugar, and the juice of the lemon. Return to the oven to color; let it pariiy 
cool, and serve with milk or cream. 

Tapioca Pudding._Soak four tablespoonfuls tapioca in a little water 
over night; boil one quart of milk and pour over it whUe hot; when cool add 



COOKING RECIPES. S27 

one-liftlf cup sugar, one egg, and the yelk of one egg, well beaten; bake 
Blowly one hour, spread with the whites of two eggs, beaten, retui-n to oven, 
brown slightly; flavor with orange. 

Wiite Sauce for Pudding. Half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, 

and half a gill of water; bcil together, and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
the juice of one lemon, and the rind cut into small pieces. To be poured 
over the pudding just before the latter is to be eaten. 

■\Vaffles. — One pint of sour cream, one pint of flour, three eggs, half a 
teaspoomul soda, beat up, and bake on hot waffle irons, well buttered, and 
butter well as soon as removed from the iron. * 

YorlcsUire Pudding. — Make a batter with five tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one egg, and about a pint of milk. Put some of the fat out of the dripping- 
pan iuto the Yorkshire pudding tin, and when it is boiling hot pour in the 
batter. Bake it in the oven for half an hour, and set it for a few minutes in 
front of the fire under the meat. 

Apple Meringue Pie. — Stew and sweeten juicy apples when you have 
pared and sliced them; mash smooth, and season with nutmeg, or stew some 
lemon peel with them and remove when cold; till your pans and bake till 
done; spread over the apples a thick meringue, made by whipping to a stiff 
froth the whites of three eggs for each pie, sweetening with a tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar for each egg; flavor this with rose or vanilla; beat until it 
will stand alone and cover the pie three-quarters of an inch thick. Set back 
in the oven until the mei-ingue is well set. Should it color too darkly sift 
powdered sugar over it when cool; eat cold. Peaches are even more de- 
licious when used in the same manner. 

Cherry Pie—Stone the cherries; make a paste as for any pie, put in the 
fruit, add sugar, and about three tablespoonfuls water; sprinkle a table- 
spoonful flour over fruit; take a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and cut 
it in small bits over the top; make a paste of one teaspoonful of flour to two 
of cold water, and wet the edges of the crust before putting on the cover; if 
properly done it will prevent the juice from running out; or, roll the edges 
together; while hot, see if it is sweet enough; if not, raise the cover and put 
in more sugar. Eat while slightly warm. 

Spring Mince Pies.— A cup and a half of chopped raisins, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of warm water, half a cup of vinegar or 
good bulled cider, two well-beaten eggs, five crackers, pounded fine; stir all 
together and season with spices as other mince pies; bake %vith rich crust. 
For the top crust, roll thin, cut in narrow strips, and twiat and lay across. 

Cream Pie. — One pint milk, two large spoonfuls sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful flour, yelks of two eggs and white of one. Beats eggs, sugar, and flour 
together, let the milk get boiling hot, pour in the beaten parts and stir until 
thick, make the crust and bake it; fill with the custard. Beat the remaining 
white of egg till stiff", spread evenly over the top, return to the oven to brown 
sUghtly. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Custard Pie. — One quart milk, three eggs, one tablespoonful cornstarch, 
one dessertspoonful extract vanilla, one cupful sugar, a very small pincb 
salt; beat the sugar and eggs together, mis the corn starch in a little of th» 



328 fnt: nor^F.iTOLt). 

milk, and stir all well together. This is far superior to the ordinary cuBtard 
pie made with four eggs. Leas sugar may be used if preferred. 

Mock liemon Pie. — One cup of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour, the yelks of two eggs (save the whites for the top of the pie), one tea- 
spoonful of extract of lemon, two-thirds of a cup of boiling water, two-thirds 
of a cup of stewed pie plant; mix the sugar, flour, eggs and extract together; 
then pour on the water, then the pie plant; bake with one crust; when done, 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and spread it over the pie, setting it back in 
the OTen for four minutes. 

Pie-Crust Witliont Larcl— Take good, rich buttermilk, soda, and a 
little salt, and mix just as soft as can be mixed and hold together; have 
plenty of flour on the molding-board and roUing-pin; then make and bake 
as other pies, or rather in a slow oven, and when the pie is taken from the 
oven do not cover it up. In this way a dyspeptic can indulge in the luxury 
of a pie. 

Oatmeal Pie Crust. —Scald two parts of fine oatmeal with one part of 
hot water; mix well and roll thin. As this bakes very quickly fruit which 
requires much cooking must be cooked first before making the pies. This 
erust is very tender, possessing all the deskable quaUties of shortened pie 
crusts without their iujurious eflects. 

Beverly Pie—Pare and grate some sweet mellow apples — about a 
dozen; to a pint of the grated pulp put a pint of milk, two eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, the grated peel of a lemon, and half a wineglass 
of brandy; sweeten to your taste; to be baked in a deep plate, with only 
a lower crust. 

Com-Starclx Custard Pie. — Very nice pies are made vnth. two eggs, 
and two large tablespoonfuls of corn starch to a quart of milk; sweeten and 
spice to taste; the com starch should be mixed smooth with milk and eggs 
beaten up in it, then thin out ■svith more milk; sweeten, season, pour into 
pans hned with paste, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. 

Iieinon Pie. — The juice and gi'ated rind of one lemon, one cup of water, 
one tablespoonful of corn starch, one cup of sugar, one egg, and a piece of 
butter the size of a small egg. Boil the water, wet the corn starch- with a 
little cold water, and stir it in; when it boils up, pour on it the sugar and 
butter; after it cools, add the egg and lemon; bake with under and upper 
crust. 

Iieinon Pie. — Four lemons, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, three and 
one-half cups water, half cup flour. Grate the rind of two lemons and use 
with the inside of the four (but do not use the white skin, as it is bitter), 
cook these ingredients a few minutes before putting it between the crust. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. — Beat the yelks of four eggs, ten tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, three of melted butter, and the juice of one lemon and a half, add 
three tablespoonfuls of milk or water; bake in an undercrust, then beat the 
whites, pour over the top and put back in the oven to brown. 

Apple Custard Pie — Two well-beaten eggs, one eup grated sweet 
apple, one pint sweet milk, two large spoonfuls of sugar, a little salt aad 
flavor, 



COOElIXG RECIPSS. S^ 

Rhubarb Cream Pie— One pint stewed rhubarb, four ounces sugar, 
one pint cream, two ounces powdered cracker, three eggs. Eub the stewed 
rhubarb through a sieve, beat the other ingredients well together, and just 
as the pie is ready for the oven stir in the rhiibarb; pour the whole into a 
plate lined with pastry. Cover with strips and bake. 

Orange Pie. — Take the juice and grated rind cf one orange, one small 
cup of sugar, yelks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of com starch, make 
smooth with milk, piece ot butter as large as a chestnut, and one cup of milk. 
Beat the whites of the three eggs with sugar, and place on the top after the 
pie is baked— leaving in the oven till browned. 

Buttermilk Pie..^Beat together a heaping ciip of siigar and four eggs, 
add half a cup of butter; beat thoroughly, and add one and a half pints of 
fresh country buttermilk. Line the pie tins with crust; slice an apple thin 
and lay in each pie; fill the crust with the mixture, and bake with no upper 
ciiist. 

Buttemiillc Pies.— One cup sugar, two cups buttermilk, two eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls flour, two tablespoonfuls butter; flavor with lemon, Thia 
makes two pies. 

Rice Pie. — To a pint of boiled rice add a pint of rich cream, two eggs, 
salt, and a little mace. Let these ingredients be well mixed, spread half the 
quantity in a deepbaldng dish, laj"^ pieces of chicken upon it and cover them 
with the remainder of the rice, and bake in a hot oven. 

PumpUin Pie. — Stew the pumpkin as dry as possible without burning; 
rub it through a colander. To one pint of the pumpkin add three eggs, one 
quart of milk, one teacup sugar, half teaspoonful salt, and nutmeg or ginger 
to taste. The above quantity will make two large pies. 

Marlborough. Pie. — Grate six apples, one cup of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, four eggs, juice and grated rind of a lemon, two 
tablespoonfuls brandy or wine, if you choose; if not, omit it. Bake in an 
under, but without top crust. 

Washington Pie. — Three eggs, one cup sugar, a scant half cup milk, 
half teaspoonful soda, a teaspoonful cream tartar, cup flour, a piece butter 
size of a hen's egg, spice to taste; this makes three layers; spread with jelly. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Grate one cocoanut, add one pint of milk, three eggs, 
one cup of sugar and a little salt; add the cocoanut milk. Enough for two 
pies. 

Peach Pie—Line the pie pans with rich pastiy, fill with ripe, juicy 
peaches, peeled and cut in quarters, sprinkle well with sugar, cover with a 
thin crust, bake half an hour. Serve cold. 

Prune Pie. — Stew the prunes as for sauce, stone and sweeten, and with 
nice pie crust I think you will call them good. Be sure and not have them 
too dry. 

Fancy Dishes. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. — One pint of fresh or canned pineapple, 
one small teacup of sugar, one pint oi cream, half a package of gelatine, 



830 The nOUSEHOLD. 

liaif a cup of cold water. Soak gelatine two hours in the water. Chop pine- 
apple fine, put it on with the sugar to simmer twenty minutes. Add gelatine 
and strain immediately through a cloth or sieve into a tin basin. Rub the 
pineapple through as much as possible. Beat until it begins to thicken, 
then add cream which has been whipped to a froth. When well mixed, pour 
into a wet mold, and set away to harden. Serve wiih whipped cream. 

liemon Float. — Boil one quart of sweet milk and three tablespoonfula 
of sugar, and mix it with one tablespoonful of com starch, stirred smoothly, 
and the grated peel of one lemon. When it has boiled ten minutes, add the 
yelks of three eggs, well beaten, and stir constantly for five minutes. Put 
the pail it was cooked in directly into a xjail of cold water, and stir it some 
time, then strain it into a pudding dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
very still' froth, add the juice, of the lemon and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Put them over the pud ding and serve ice cold. Desiccated or fresh cocoa- 
nut grated finely can be added to the whites of the eggs, and will improve 
the dish very much. 

Peaclies -^vitu Rice. — Take some peaches and cut thfem in halves; sim- 
mer them in a synap for half an hour, then drain, and when cold arrange 
them on a dish round a shape of rice made as follows: Boil three table- 
spoonfuls of rice, picked and washed clean, in a pint of milk, with sugar to 
taste, and a piece of vanilla; when quite done put it into a basin to get cold. 
Make a custai'd with a gill of milk and the yelks of four eggs; when cold 
mix it with the rice. Beat up to a froth a gill of cream, with some sugar and 
a pinch of isinglass dissolved in a little water; mix this very lightly with the 
rice and custard; fill a mold with the mixture and set it on ice. When mod- 
erately iced turn it out on a dish and sei've. 

Coffee Cream. — This is a delicate and agreeable dish for an evening en- 
tertainment. Dissolve one ounce and a quarter of isinglass in half a pint of 
water. Boil for two hours a teacuj) of whole coffee in about half a pint of 
water (ground coS'ee is not so good for the purpose); add a teacupful to the 
melted isinglass. Put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, and 
let the whole boil up; sweeten with loaf sugar, and let it stand ten minutes 
to cool, then add a pint of good cream; stir it well up and pour it into a 
mold and put it in a cool place to fix; turn it out on a glass dish before 
serving up. 

Cliai-lotte Rnsse. — Take one-fifth of a package of gelatine and one-half 
a cup cold milk; place in a farina boiler and stu" gently over the fire until 
the gelatine is dissolved, pour into a dish and place in a cool room; take 
one pint of rich cream and whisk it with a tin egg-beater until it is thick; 
flavor the cream with either vanilla or wine, and sweeten to taste; when the 
gelatine is cool strain carefully into the prepared cream; line a mold with 
lady fingers; then pour the cream in carefully until it is filled; cover with 
lady fingers and ice the top if you desire it. 

Snow Eggs — Snow eggs are formed by putting over the fire a quart of 
rich milk, sweetening it and flavoring it with orange flower water. Separate 
the whites and yelks of six fresh eggs, and beat up the whites to a stiff froth. 
Drop a spoonful at a time into the boiling milk, turning them as quickly as 
possible, and lifting them out of the milk with a skimmer, place them on a 
Sieve. Beat ijp the yelks and stir them into the milk; let them have one 



COOKINa EEOIPES. 331 

boil and put in a glass dish. Arrange the whites around the edges and 
serve either hot or cold; the last is preferable. 

Airy Notliinga._To three eggs put half an egg-shell full of sweet milk, 
and butter the size of a walnut; work in flour until you can roll the dough 
into as thin a sheet as possible. Cut into cakes with a saucer and stick as 
you do biscuits; bake them quickly but not brown; heap them up on a dish 
and strew them thickly with powdered sugar. Note. — Allow one pint 
of flour to the other ingredients named above, although evei-y bit may 
not be required; always reserve a little for the rolling out of cakes on a 
board. 

Sno-w Custard. — Boil eight eggs, leaving out the whites of four; add to 
them one quart of milk and Ave ounces of sugar; have a shallow pan of hot 
water in the oven; set the dish into it, and bake till the custard is thick; 
then set away to cool; beat the remaining whites very light; add half a 
pound of sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; when the custard ia cold 
lay the whites over the top in heaps, but do not let them touch. 

Cream Pie and Orange Dessert. — Cut the oranges in thin slices and 
spi-inkle sugar over them; let them stand two or three hours; serve on or- 
dinary fruit plates. The pie is made with a bottom-crust only, and that not 
thick, but light and flaky. Take one coffeecup of thick, sweet cream, 
half a cup of pulverized sugar, a tablespoonful of flour, one egg; flavor with 
lemon extract; bake until you are sure the crust is brown and hard, so that 
it will not absorb the custard. 

W^liipped Cream. — Take one pint of very thick cream, sweeten it with 
very fine sugar and orange flower water; boil it. Beat the whites of ten eggs 
with a little cold ci-eam, strain it, and when the cream is upon the boil, pour 
in the eggs, stu-ring it well till it comes to a thick curd; and then take it up 
and strain it again through a hair sieve. Beat it well with a spoon till it is 
cold, then place it in a dish in which you wish to serve it. 

Watermelon Tea Dish. — Take a fully ripe watermelon, put on ice 
until thoroughly cold, slice, remove seeds and cut any shape you prefer, 
squares, diamonds, stars, size sufficient for mouthful, put layer into glass 
dish, sprinkle with granulated sugar, another layer with sugar, until you 
fill your dish, sprinkle sugar over top, retui-n to ice-box until wanted for 
tea. Dish and eat the same as any kind of fruit. You wUl be delighted. 

Compote of Oranges. — Put a handful of loaf sugar to boil with a gill of 
water in a saucepan; when it boils, add the rind of three oranges minced 
finely or cut into very narrow strips. Let the whole boil five minutes, add 
a liquor glass of brandy, and pour the syrup (hot) over half a dozen whole 
oranges, peeled and cored, or cut up in any form you like. Leave the 
oranges in a basin with the syrup till quite cold; then pile them up on a 
dish and serve. 

Gooseberry Trifle. — Scald the fruit, press it through a sieve, and add 
Bugar to taste. Make a thick layer of this at the bottom of the dish. Mix a 
pint of milk, a pint of cream, and the yelks of two eggs; scald it over the 
fire, stirring it well; add a small quantity of sugar and let it get cold. Then 
lay it over the gooseberries with a spcxm, and put on the whole a whip made 
the day before. 



$32 THE JIOUSSnOLD. 

Hen's iVest. — Take four eggs, make a hole with a pin in one end, take 
out all the yelk and white, fill this with a liquid blanc mange, stand each 
shell in an egg cup and put it away to cool; put some orange marmalade on 
a dish; when the blanc mango is h^irdened, break off the shells, and stand 
the whole eggs in the center of the orange marmalade. This looks like a 
neat of eggs, and has a pretty effect for a supper table. 

Dessert. — Make a batter as if for waffles; to one pint of milk allow two 
eggs and enough flour to thicken; one teaspoouful of baking-powder should 
be stirred into the flour. Fill a sufiicient number of teacups with this and 
fruit in layers. Then set the cups in the steamer, and let the water boil 
underneath it for a full hour. Serve while hot with sugar and cream. Any 
jam is nice for this, or raw apples chopped fine. 

Urange Butter. — Pare eight large oranges, cut into thin slices, pour 
over them one and one-half cups of powdered sugar; boil one pint of milk; 
and, while boiUng, add the yelks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of com 
starch made smooth with cold milk; stir constantly, and when thick pour 
over the fruit; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, sweeten, pour over the 
custard and brown in the oven. Serve cold. 

Cocoaiiut Cones. —One pound powdered sugar, one-half ditto of grated 
cocoanut, and the whites of five eggs; whip the eggs as for icing, adding the 
sugar as you go on, until it will stand alone, then beat in the cocoanut; mold 
the mixture with your hands into small cones, and set these far enough 
apart not to touch each other upon buttered paper in a baking pan; bake in 
a veiy moderate oven. 

Dorcas American Cream. — Four eggs, half box gelatine, one quart 
milk. Put the milk and gelatine on the stove, and when nearly boiling, mix 
in the yelks well beaten. Beat the whites vei-y stiff; then add sixteen table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. After they are well beaten, add to the other ingredients 
just as they come off the stove. Flavor with vanilla or anything you may 
fancy. 

"Velvet Cream. — One ounce isinglass, a teacup of wme, the juice of a 
large lemon, one pint of rich cream. Dissolve the isinglass in wine; rub 
large lumps of sugar over the lemon to extract the oil; squeeze out the 
juice, and sweeten to taste. Bod this mixture and strain it; when quite cool 
add the cream, and put it into molds 

Spirals— Two eggs beaten quite light, siifficient flour stir-red in to make 
the mixture very stiff; add a pinch of salt and stir again; then roll out quite 
thin, cut strips about two inches wide and four long, and roll round the 
fingers as if curling hau'. Fry in butter till of a deUcate golden shade, ana 
sprinkle powdered sugar just before serving. 

Ambrosia — One pineapple chopped quite fine, one-half box of straw- 
berries, six bananas sliced and the shces quartered, six oranges shced and 
the sUces quartered, one lemon cut fine. Sweeten to taste; add one wine- 
glassful of sherry or Madeira, and set away until very cold. 

Corn Starcli Blanc Mange — Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of com 
Btarch in new milk; heat a pint of new milk nearly boiling hot, pour in the 
stsiTchj stir briskly, and boil for three minutes; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



COOKING RECIPES. 333 

Apple Charlotte. — This is a seasonable dish. Take two pounds of 
apples, pare and core them, slice them into a pan, and add one pound of 
loaf sugar, the juice of three lemons, and the grated rind of one. Let these 
boil until they become a thick mass, which will take about two hours. Turn 
it into a mold, and serve it cold with either thick custard or cream. 

SHo-M'flake. — Dissolve in one quart of boiUng water a box of gelatine; 
when thoroughly dissolved add four cups of white sugar and the juice of 
two lemons; when neai'ly cold strain; beat to a stiff froth the whites of six 
eggs; mix the whole together, pour into molds and set on icej or in a very 
cool place. This served with a boiled custard makes a very pretty dish. 

Lenion Cojiserve. — One pound powdered white sugar, quarter pound 
fresh butter, six eggs, leaving out the whites of two, adding the juice and 
grated lind of three fine lemons. Put all into a saucepan, stir the whole 
gently over a slow fire until it gets thick as honey. A delicious spread for 
bread, biscuits or rolls. 

Orange Tart. — Grate the yellow of one orange, squeeze out the juice, 
being careful to avoid the seeds, the juice and yellow of half a lemon, fourth 
of a pound of sugar, two ounces butter, carefully melted, two eggs, leaving 
out the white of one, beat well, stir all together, line a tart tin, or pattypans 
with thin paste, fill and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Snow Balls. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, three teaspooufuls of baking powder, whites of five 
eggs. Bake in deep square tins. The day following, cut in two-inch 
squares, taking the oustide off so as to leave it all white; take each piece on 
a fork and frost upon all sides, and roll in freshly grated cocoanut. 

Spanish PitflTs. — Put into a saucepan a teacup of water, a tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two ounces of butter; 
while it is boihng add sufficient flour for it to leave the saucepan, stir in, 
one by one, the yelks of four eggs, drop a teaspoonful at a time into boiling 
lai'd, fry them a hght brown; pour white wine and melted butter over them. 

Peach Butter. — Pare ripe peaches and put them in a preserving kettle, 
with sufficient water to boil them soft; then sift through a colander, remov- 
ikg the stones. To each quart of peach put one and one-half pound sugar, 
and boil very slowly one hour. Stir often, and do not let them bum. Put 
in stone or glass jars and keep iu a cool place. 

German Trifle— Put one quart of strawberries, or any other fresh 
fruit, in the bottom of a glass dish; sugar the fruit, cover it with a layer of 
macaroons, pour over it a custard made with one quart of milk and the 
yelks of seven eggs, well beaten; sweeten to your taste; when cold, place on 
the top of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, with a little sugar. 

Havana Butter. — One and a half cups white sugar, whites of three 
eggs, yelk of one, grated rind and juice of a lemon and a half, or two small 
ones. Cook over a slow fire twenty minutes, stirring all the while. Vejy 
nice for tarts or to be eaten as preserves. 

Blanc Mange._One ounce isinglass to one quart of milk, add sugar, 
cinnamon and mace to your taste; put it by the fire until the isinglasa in 
dJeeolYed; strain it, and put it in molds to cooL 



334 THE nous En OLD. 

Banana Pie—One ■w'ho retains the " sweet tooth " of his childhood will 
find this to his liking: Make ca banana pie with a lower crust only; bake the 
crust first, then fill it with sliced bananas and powdered sugar; the fruit will 
soften sufficiently in a few moments. Cover the top with whipped cream 
and eat at once. 

Orange Salad—Peel one dozen oranges, and cut in slices; put in layers, 
in a glass dish, sprinkling each layer plentifully with sugar. Squeeze over 
this th« juice of six oranges, and pour over all a glass of wine or brandy. 
Sweet oranges are best for this dish with very little sugar, but Messinas are 
very good, well sweetened. 

Apple Snow — Put twelve apples in cold water and set them over a 
slow fire; when soft, drain them, take off the peelings, core them, and put 
them in a deep dish; beat the whites of twelve eggs to a still' froth, put half 
a pound of sugar in the apples, beat them light, then beat in the whites. 
Elegant. 

Apple Cream. — Peel and core five large apples; boil them in a little 
water till soft enough to press through a sieve, sweeten, and beat with them 
the whites of five eggs. Serve with cream poured around them. 

Chocolate Cream. — Put over the fire one quart of milk; when it cornea 
to a boil add three tablespoonfuls of chocolate. Thicken with corn starch 
and sweeten to taste. Flavor with vanilla. Serve cold mth cream. 

Caledonian Cream. — Two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, one teaspoonful 
of raspberry jam, two whites of eggs, juice of one lemon. Beat for half an 
hour. Serve up sprinkled with fancy biscuits. 

Q,nince Snow. — One-third pound of quince marmalade to whites of two 
eggs and quarter pound of sugar; pile in a pyramid in a dish and bake a pale 
yellow. 

Cakes. 

Weights and Measures. — Two cups flour weigh one pound; one pint 
flour, one pound; one pint white sugar, one pound; two tablespoonfuls 
liquid, one ounce; eight teaspoonfuls liquid, one ounce; one gill liquid, four 
ounces. 

Bon-ton Wedding Calte. — Beat to a cream six cups biitter and fcur of 
white sugar, add sixteen eggs beaten, then roll sis cups currants washed 
and dried, thre« cups seeded raisins, two cups minced citron, two cups 
almonds blanched and cut fine, half cup lemon peel minced fine, and one 
tablespoonful cinnamon, nutmeg, eloves and allspice, in three pints sifted 
flour, till they are well dredged with the flour, then add them all at once to 
the butter, sugar and eggs, add half pint brandy; mix very thoroughly and 
smooth, put in a large cake pan well buttered and lined with paper, and 
bake in a very even oven for eight hours, watch it carefully, and your cake 
wiU be elegant; ice it the next day with " transparent icing." 

Snow Jelly Cake — Beat two eggs in a teacup and fill with rich, sour 
cream; one teacup of white sugar, one cup of flour, a little soda; not quite 
half a teaspoonful unless the cream is very sour. Bake in four round tins 
and brown as little as possible. Have a jelly prepared by soaking four 



COOKING BECIPES. 385 

tablespoonfuls of tapioca in warm water until transparent, then add more 
water and place your dish in boiling water on the stove and cook until a 
transparent jellv; flavor strong with lemon, almond, or wmtergreen. Gela- 
tine is just as nice as tapioca. This cake is not expensive and is very mce, 
and can ho eaten by dyspeptics. 

Rich Coffee Cake — Two cups of butter, three of sugar, one of molasses, 
one of very strong coffee, one of cream or rich milk, the yelks of eight eggs, 
one pound each of raisins and currants, one-half pound of citron, the same 
of figs, and five cups of brown flour after it is stirred. Put the flour in the 
oven iiutil a rich brown, being careful not to burn it. When cold sift with it 
three teaspoonfuls of good bakmg powder and a little salt. Cut the figs in 
long strips, dredge all the fruit with flour, beat the cake well up, and bake 
in moderate oven from four to five hours. 

Marble Calte — LigM Par^— Whites of three eggs, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Bark Pfl?-f.— Yelks of three eggs, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of 
butter, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful soda, one-third cup of milk, and 
flavor with mixed apices, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg. Butter the tin and 
put in the pan alternate layers of light and dark parts, having the light part 
on top. 

Lemon Cake. — One cup of sugar, four eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
sweet mUk, thi-ee tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and one cup of flour. 

Sauce.~OnQ lemon (juice and grated rind), one cup of cold water, one 
cup of sugar, one egg, and tablespoonful of cornstarch. Beat lemon rind 
and egg together; stir in sugar and lemon juice; di&solve cornstarch in cold 
water. Cook in a tin over hot water till it jellies. 

Good Plain Cookies. — Two cups of white sugar, two eggs, one cup of 
butter (melted), one teaspoonful of soda, six tablespoonfuls of cold water; 
roll thin. You may scatter cocoanut over the top before baking. Another 
good recipe for cookies: Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup boiling water, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two tablespoonfuls 
of ginger, one tablespoonful of cinnamon; roll as soft as possible. If you 
like the flavor of coffee, you can use half cold coffee and half water. 

Sand Hearts.— Two pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound of 
butter, three eggs. Make up into a dough, and work till the ingredients 
are well incorporated. After rolling out and cutting into heart-sha^e, place 
the cakes ©n a pan and beat up one egg, spread some of it over them with a 
feather, and then sprinkle with granulated sugar. If a little coarse-grained 
all the better, mixing with it a httle finely-powdered cinnamon. 

Watei-melon Cake. — White part, two cups of white sugar, two-thirds 
cup of butter, two-thirds cup of milk, three cups of flour, whites of five 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, and two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Ked 
part, one cup of red sugar, one half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two 
cups of flour, one cup of raisins, whites of five eggs, one teaspoonful of 
Boda, and two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Stone and roll the raisins 
In powdered sugar, stu- into the cake, and turn into the middle of the paa. 
and pour the white part over and around it, 



336 THE nOUSEHOLD. 

Frosting for Cake— Allow sixteen tablespoonfuls pulverized BUgar for 
eatfh egg. Take part of the sugar at first and sprinkle over the egg; beat 
them for half au hour, gradually stirring in the rest of the sugar; then 
flavor. A little lemon juice whitens icing. Strawberry juice or cranberry 
syrup gives a pretty pink shade. It may be colored yoUow by using some 
of the yelk of the egg or by putting the grated peel of a lemon or orange in 
a thin muslin bag and squeezing it hard into the egg and sugar. 

Currant Cookies.—One pound flour, cne-half pound of butter, three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, four eggs, one half pound of currants well 
washed and dredged, one half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water, 
one-half lemon, grated rmd and juice, one teasiwonful of cinnamon. Drop 
from a spoon upon a baking tin lined with well-buttered paper and bake 
quickly. 

Cocoanut Cake — Three eggs (the whites of two of them to be used for 
frosting), two-thirds of a cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, 
one and two-thirds cups of flour, one teaspoonful of creara of tartar, and a. 
half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in thin round tins; make a frosting of the 
whites of the two eggs, well beaten, with four dessertspoonfuls of white 
sugar; spread on the top of the cakes and sprinkle the grated cocoanut with 
the frosting. 

Apple Cake — A pleasant vax-ia*ion on the jelly and creim filling used 
for double cakes may be made of apples. Beat one egg hght in a bowl, and 
into it a cup of sugar. Add to this the strained juice and grated rind of a 
Jemon. Peel and grate three firm pippins or other ripe, tart apples directly 
into this mixture, stirring each well iu before adding another. When all are 
in, put into a farina kettle and stir over the fire until the apple custard is 
boiling hot and quite thick. Cool and spread between the cakes. 

Angel Cake. — Sift together four times, cie and one-half cups of sugar, 
one cup flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar; stir in this very lightly 
whites of eleven eggs thoroughly beaten. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful 
of rose extract. Bake fifty minutes in a slow oveii, not op)ening the oven for 
thirty minutes. Turn pan over on a rack and Id cake remain in pan one 
hour. This is the simplest rule for angel cake that we have ever seen, and 
ie excellent. 

A Useful Cake. — One-third cup of butter, two cups light brown sugar, 
two eggs, beat all together. One cup of new sweet milk, three cups of sifted 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. Stir all together, and bake in 
seven layers. For jelly cake take jelly, for orange cake juice and grated 
rind of one orange, whites of two eggs, make stiff with sugar. For lemon 
cake white of one egg, juice of one lemon, and teaspoonful extract of lemon. 
For cocoanut, whites of two eggs, thickened with sugar and grated cocoanut. 

Dolly Vard en Cake. — Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
onp cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, one teaspooniul of cream tartar. Flavor with lemon. Bake one- 
half of this in two pans. To the remainder add one tablespoonful of 
molasses, one cup of chopped raisins, one-half cup of currants, piece of 
citron chopped fine, oue teaspoonful of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. B»ke 
in two pans and put in sheets alternately ■with a little jelly or white of ao 
egg beaten to a £rotb. 



coo KINO RECIPES. 33-? 

Almond Cake— The following recipe for almond cake is a good one. It 
makee a very nice cake for the basket. Take one cup of butter, one cup £»id 
a half of sugar, three eggs, half of a cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of halving 
powder, about two cups of flour; flavor with a little almond extract; blanch 
one pound of almonds; lay aside enough to cover the top of the cake when 
they are cut in halves; chop the rest and put into the cake. After the cake 
is in the tin, lay the spUt ones over the top of the cake; they will rise and 
brown as the cake bakes. This is dehcious; try it. 

f Raised Raisin CaUe.— Dissolve half a square of compressed yeast in 
one large cup of milk and stir in one pound of flour, let rise; when light beat 
together eight ounces each of butter and sugar, yelks of four eggs, cup of 
Btoned raisins, some fine cut citron, and grated peel of a lemon; stir now into 
the dough, beating it very light (it is best to use the hand), let it rise again 
in a round cake pan and bake in an even but moderate oven. 

Strawberry or Red Cake — Whites of five eggs; butter, one cup; sugar, 
one cup; red sugar sand, one cup; or if wanted very dark, two cups of red 
sugar, leaving out the white; sweet milk, one cup; corn starch, one cup; 
flour, two cups; baking powder, three teaspoonfuls; then make a white cake 
and bake same as marble cake, or, if desired, bake in layers and put to- 
gether with frosting. 

Farmer's Fruit Cake—Soak three cups of dried apples over night io 
warm water. Chop shghtly in the morning, and simmer two hours in two 
cups of molasses. Add two well-beaten eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one dessertspoonful of soda, flour enough to make rather a stiff bat- 
ter. Flavor with nutmeg and cinnamon to the taste. Bake in a quick oven. 

Ice Cream Cake. — Take the whites of five eggs, one and a half cups of 
Bugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, three cups of flour. Separate this mixture 
and color half with strawberry coloring. Flavor this -with vanilla, the white 
■with lemon. Put in the white, then the pink. Bake slowly. 

Rice Cake. — Take half a pound of clarified butter, eight eggs well 
beaten, leaving out the whites of two, three-quarters of a pound of pounded 
Sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon; mix these well together; then add 
grounded rice and dried flour, half a pound of each; currants and candied 
peel may be added, when approved. 

Pineapple Cake. — Three cups sugar, one cup butter, five eggs, three 
and one-half cups of flour, one-half cup cold water, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Bake in layers; spread each layer with a thick icing, then cover 
with grated pineapple. Place on next layer and treat as before. 

Gelatine Fi-osting.-_One tablespoonful gelatine, two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water; when the gelatine is soft, one tablespoonful of hot water. When 
entirely dissolved add one cup of powdered sugar, and beat while it is yet 
warm until white and light; lemon to taste. Give good measure to all the 
ingredients. This frosts one sheet of cake 

Molasses Cookies. — Two cups and one-half hot molasses, one cup of 
shortening (half butter and half lard), one teaspoonful of ginger and one of 
cinnamon; disaolve two teaspoonfuls of saieratus ia a cup of lukewarm 



338 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

water and throw in as quickly as possible; add some flour and stir a few 
minutes as you would soft cake, then add more flour; mix as soft as you can 
conveniently and roll out. 

Banana Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one cup of water 
or of sweet milk, three eggs, four cups of flour, three small teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; mix lightly and bake in layers. Make an icing of the whites 
of two eggs, and one cup and a half of powdered sugar. Spread this on the 
layers, and then cover thickly and entirely with bananas, sliced thin. This 
cake may be flavored -with vanilla. The top should be simply frosted. 

Buttermilk Cakes. — We advise those ladies who live in the country, 
whore buttermilk can be easily procured, to try the following receipt, which 
makes a very good light cake: Into two pounds of flour rub one pound of 
butter, add three-quarters of a pound of currants, two ounces of candied 
peel, one pint of buttermilk, and one ounce of carbonate of soda. Mix and 
beat them well together, and bake in a tin. 

BaclieloiV Buttons. — These delicious little cakes are prepared by rub- 
bing two ounces of butter into five ounces of flour; add five ounces of white 
sugar, beat an egg with half the sugar and put it to the other ingredients. 
Add almond flavoring according to taste, roll them in the hand about the 
size of a large nut, sprinkle them with lump sugar, and place them on tins, 
"with buttered paper. They should be lightly baked. 

Bread Cake. — Two cups of very light bread sponge, take one cup butter 
and lard mixed, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one tablespoonful cinna- 
mon, half teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoouful soda, one tablespoonful ricfe 
milk, two eggs; mix these ingredients well and add to the risen sponge, with 
flour to make as stiff as cup cake, and one cup of raisins; let rise until Ught 
and bake slowly. 

Coffee Cakes. — Three cups of bread sponge, one-half cup of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs. Roll thin, cut out as for biscuit; sprinkle 
with sugar, cinnamon, and bits of butter. Bake slowly. 

Black Cake. — One and three-quarter pounds of flour, one and one- 
quarter pounds of brown sugar, one pound of butter, one and one-half 
pounds of raisins, one and one-half pounds of currants, one-half pound of 
lard, four eggs, one pint of milk, one nutmeg, and mace, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Wine and brandy. 

FiUing for Layer Cake — A delicious filUng for a layer cake is made 
of one cup of stoned raisins and one lemon peeled, chopped together; mix 
with this half a cup of cold water and one cup of sugar. Beat this well 
together; if the cake is well baked, so that there is a crust on the top, put 
the filhng in while the cake ia still warm. Bo sure to remove the seeds from 
the lemons. 

Old-Fashioned "Muster Gingerbread."_One cup molasses, two 
large spoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in three tablespoon- 
fuls boiling water, one teaspoonful ginger; knead well but not hard; roll 
into sheets, mark with a fork and bake quickly; this will make three com- 
mon sized sheets; after it is baked and while hot, mix one teaspoonful owee^ 
milk and one of molasses and wet the top. 



COOKING RECIPES. 339 

Chocolate Jumbles— One and a half teacups of white sugar, one-half 
a teacup of sweet cream, one- half a teacup of butter, one teacup of choco- 
late, half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in cream, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, one egg. Work very stiff with Hour, mix the chocolate and cream of 
tartar in the flour, roll thin, cut with a cutter. 

Honey Cakes — Throe and one-half pounds of flour, one and one-half 
pounds of honey, one-half pound of butter, one-half pound of sugar, half a 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda; roll thin and 
cut in small cakes; bake in a quick oven, cover tight and let stand till moist. 
They will keep a long time. This recipe has been used in one family for 
twenty-five years. 

Hacklebei-ry Cake. — One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
five eggs, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, 
one teaspoonful each of nutmeg and cinnamon. One quart of ripe berries 
dredged well \nih. flour. Stir them in carefully so as not to burn them. 
Bake in loaf or card. 

Boston Cake. — One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, cup of sour ci'eam, five eggs, teaspoonful of soda, spice. Beat but- 
ter and sugar to a cream, then yelks of eggs beaten very light, dissolve soda 
in cream, and add then flour alternately with whites of eggs beaten to a 
froth; spice to taste; fruit can be added; bake in a moderately hot oven, 
especially if fruit is added. 

Q,ueen's Cake. — One pound flour, one pound of sugar, half pound of 
butter, five eggs, flavoring essence to taste, cup of milk, one pour 1 of cur- 
rants, spice and citron. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs well 
beaten, then milk, flour, spice and fruit. Chopped raisins can be used ia 
place of cun-ants, if preferred. Bake two hours in a pretty hot oven. 

Cream Cake. — One-half cup of butter, two cups sugar, three egga 
beaten in one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. Cream for middle, one pint of milk, let it 
come to a boil, one-half cup of flour, one cup of sugar, two eggs, flavor with: 
vanilla and a lump of butter. This ia worth trying. 

Cream Tea Cakes. — Two pounds of flour, a teacup of butter, half pint 
of sour cream, half a teaspoonful of saleratus, and a little salt. Mix well. 
If necessary, add more cream. Make into small round cakes, and bake 
fifteen or twenty minutes. When done, open one side, and insert a piece of 
butter, or serve otherwise, hot. 

lUrs. Crabtree's Cake. — One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three 
eggs, leaving out whites of two for frosting; one-half cup of sweet milk, one- 
half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, two cups, not quite 
full, flour. Frosting. — Whites of two eggs, beat to a froth, one and half cups 
sugar; one cup raisins chopped fine, one cup English walnuts, chopped 
fine. 

liatly Fingers. — Take two eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, 
half a cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; add enough 
flour to form a soft dough. Take a small piece of dough, flour it and roll 
■with your hands as large as your finger; cut off in four-inch lengths and pu^ 
closely ia buttered pans. Bake quickly, 



840 THE nOUSEHOLB. . 

lioaf Seed Cake. — Take one loaf of dough, oue cup of brown sugar, half 

cup of butter or drippings, half ounce of caraway seeds, or a quarter pound 
of currants, a Uttle spice, two egga; mix thoroughly with the hands, and set 
to rise. Do not bake until real light; bake in a deep tin. 

Kisses. — Beat the whites of three fresh eggs to a stiff froth; mix with five 
spoonfuls powdered sugar and flavor with lemon. Butter a pan and lay in 
it white paper. Drop the mixtui-e upon it in tcaspoonful cakes, at least an 
inch apart. Sift sugar over; bake half an hour in a slow oven. 

Adelaide Cake. — One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half 
pound of butter, six eggs, one cup of milk; rub the butter and sugar to- 
gether, then add the yelks of the eggs, then the milk, with soda and cream 
tartar in it; flavor with lemon; mix the flour and whites of eggs in 
alternately. 

Fruit Cream Cake. — One cup of brown sugar, one egg, butter the size 
of an egg, one cup of cream, one teaspoouful of soda, one teaspoonfui of 
cinnamon, one small nutmeg, two cups of flour, one cup and a half of seeded 
raisins. This will make one good-sized loaf. 

Hlckoryiiut Macaroons — Make frosting as for cake; stir in enough 
pounded hickorynut-meats, ^^dth mixed ground spice to taste, to make con- 
venient to handle. Flour the hands and foi-m the mixture into little balls. 
Place on buttered tins, allcwing room to spread, and bake in a quick oven. 

Tea Cake. —Beat two eggs in a teacup, fill the cup with sweet milk, add 
one cup sugar, ten even teaspoonfuls melted butter, one and three-fourths 
cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. This is the most reliable, easily 
made, and accommodating of cakes. Delicious baked in layers, and spread 
with jelly, chocolate icing, or cream. May be baked in a loaf or small patty 
pans, and served warm with tea. 

Boston Tea Cakes. — One -well beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonfui of soda dissolved in the milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream ot tartar sifted into the dry flour, two heaping cups 
of sifted flour, one tablespoonful of butter, melted. Bake in small tins. 

Soft Cookies. — One heaping cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, two 
eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sour milk, a small teasjioonful of soda, and aa 
little flour as will roll them oiit. Do not roll them thin. Sprinkle over 
before cutting out, and press it in slightly with the rolling pin. 

Ginger Snaps.— One cup molasses, one cup "brown sugar, half cup lard 
and butter melted together, three tablespoonfuls ginger, one teaspoonfui 
cinnamon, half teaspoonfui cloves, one teaspoonfui soda dissolved in half a 
cup of boUing water; thicken mth flour; roll and bake. 

Christmas Cake. — Butter, blanched almonds, sugar, grocers' cur- 
rants, and candied peel, half a pound of each; half a pint of cream, a meas- 
ured half pint of eggs out of their shells, and enough French brandy and 
Madeira wine in equal parts to make the whole sufficiently moist; the eggs 
are to be whisked, the cream whipped, and the butter beaten as for a pound 
cake; bake it for two houi's in a hoop or tin. 

Molasses Sponge Cake. — One cup molasses, one and a half of flour, 
{Ijree eggs, one teaspoonfui soda; bake in a quick oveu. 



13 Kin a ntJCTPEs. 341 

Corn Cake— Three ej^gs whipped light, yelks aiicl whites separately, 
iwo cups sour or buttermilkj three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful aoda dissolved in boiling water, one tablespoonful white sugar, 
one small teaspoonful salt. Corn meal enough to make a rather thin batter. 
Bake in a shallow pan, or in small tins, thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Prult Cake. — Three pounds of flour, three pounds of sugar, three 
pounds of butter, thirty eggs, one ounce of cinnamon, four or five nutmegs, 
cloves to your judgment, half a pint of wine and brandy each, six pounds ol 
currants, five pounds of stoned raisins, one citron and a half. 

Jelly CaUe — to Roil. — Three eggs beaten well with one cup of sugar; 
when light add one cup of flour, teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in water. Baking powder can be used instead 
of cream of tartar and soda. 

Sponge Drops. — Beat to a froth three eggs and add one teacup of sugar: 
beat five miniites: stir into this one and a half cups of flour, in which one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar and one half teaspoonful of soda are thor- 
oughly mixed; flavor with lemon; butter tin sheets, and drop in spoonfuls 
about tiiree inches apart. 

Mother's Tea CaUe. — Break an egg in a teacup, filled with sugar, beat 
thoroughly together, add one cup thick, sour cream, one teaspoonful soda, 
a little salt, half a nutmeg, and flour to make a stiif batter; bake twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Choice Fig Cake. — A large cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, 
one of sweet milk, three pints of flour with three teaspoonfula of baking 
powder, the whites of sixteen eggs, a pound and a quarter of figa (the 
choicest) , well floured and cut in strips like citron; no flavoring. 

Fried Cakes Without Fggs. — Take one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one cup of thick cream, two cups of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, about two and one-half teaspoonfuls of soda, and flour to mix. Roll, 
cut into rings, and fry in very hot lard. 

Coffee Snaps. — Half cup molasses, half cup sugar, half cup lard and but- 
ter, mixed, a little salt, half teaspoonful soda, dissolve in quarter cup of 
Btrong coffee. Beat well; add flour enough to roll. Bake in a quick oven. 

Cun-ant Cake. — One-half cup of butter, one cup of siigar, two eggs, 
Bne-half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one cup of washed currants dredged with flour. 

I^ayer Cake. — The layer cake, so popular now, made of two layers of 
vhite cake with one of fruit cake in the middle, may be varied deliciously 
by making the middle layer of walnut cake. For this, if the cake is a large 
one, take two-thirds of a cup of sugar, one-third of a cxip of butter, one cup 
flour, one egg, one teaspoonful baking powder, and nearly one cup of hickory- 
nut meats. 

Ilickorynnt Cake. — One cup broken hickory meats, one and one-half 
cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups flour, three-fourths cup sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and the whites of four egga, well 
beaten. Add the meats last* 



34^ THE SOtTSEnOll). 

C'liocolate Iciftg.— Put into a saucepan half a pound of powdered loaf- 
sugar, two ounces of grated chocolate, and about a gill of water; stir on the 
firo until the mixtut« assumes the consistence of a thick) smooth cream. 

Hickorynut Cookies. — Take two cups of sugar, two eggs, half a cup of 
melted butter, six tablespoonfuls of milk or a little more than a third of a 
cup, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, and one 
cup of chopped kernels stirred into the dough. 

Cookies. — Two eggs, half a cup of butter, or half lard with the butter, 
one cup of white sugar, flavor with lemon exti'act and nutmeg, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder sifted with flour enough to make the consistency 
to roll. 

niolasses Cake. —Two cups of New Orleans molasses, four cups of flour, 
one cup of water, one cup of buttei', one egg, two teaspoonfuis of soda, one 
orange; grate the peel, put that in, and also the juice and pulp. 

Sponge Cake. — Beat four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups of flour witli 
two heaping teaspoonfuis baking powder sifted in, all together thoroughly; 
then add a little lemon and two- thirds cup of boiling water. Beat well and 
•bake, and you will have as fine a cake as was ever eaten. 

Clove Cake. — Two cups flour, half cup molasses, one-half cup butter, 
"one-half cup milk, two eggs, two cups raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, hali 
teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and allspice, half a nutmeg. 

Macaroons. — The whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; half a 
pound of cocoanut, half a pound of rolled and sifted crackers, and an even 
tablespoonful of extract of bitter almond. Drop them upon a greased paper, 
in a diipping-pan, and bake a light brown. 

Feather Cake. — One cup of milk, one cup of flour, one egg, half a cup 
of sweetened milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Bake to a dark brown. 

Ginger Cookies. — One cup of sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon, and two teaspoonfuis of saleratus, 
dissolved in three tablespoonfuls of hot water. Bake quickly. 

Snowden Cake. — Beat to a cream half a pound of butter, three-quarters 
of a pound of granulated sugar, the whites of six eggs, half a teacup of 
cream, and one pound of Bermuda ^rrow-root. Add the beaten yelks of two 
of the eggs, and a little salt. Bake in a mold one hour. 

New Way to Prepare Chocolate Cake. — Lovers of chocolate cake will 
rejoice at a new way of pi'eparing it. Use the usual recipe for the cake, 
omitting one-third of a cup of flour. Grate the chocolate as for layer cake, 
add to the dough, mix thoroughly, and bake in a loaf. 

Frait Cake. — One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
three cups of flour, one half cup of milk, one cup of chopped raisins, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamisn and allspice, two egga, and two teaspoonfuis 
of baking powder or one teaspoonful of soda. 

Doughnuts. — One egg, one cup STigar, one teaspoonful of butter, one 
cup of Bweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuis of cream, tai-tar 



COOKING RECIPES. 849 

Cocoannt Cookies. — Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, two 
cupa of grated cocoanut, two eggs, one teaapoonful of baking powder, and 
mix with enough flour to roll easy. KoU very thin, bake in a quick oven, 
but not brown. 

To Flavor Cake. — An economical and really delicious way to flavor 
cake which is to have icing over the top, is to grate part of the peel of an 
orange or lemon over the cake before putting the icing on. 

Wliite Mountain Cake. — One tablespoonful of butter, four tablespoon- 
fuls of milk, one cup of flour, one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of yeaat- 
powder, and two eggs; cream, whites of two eggs, six ounces of pulverized 
sugar. 

Railroad Sponge Cake. — One and a half cups of sugar, two even cupa 
of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix and add one- 
third of a cup of hot water. 

Plum Cake. — One pound flour, one pound sugar, one pound butter, 
five pounds currants, ten ounces citron, three-quarters of an ounce of cloves, 
three-quarters of an ounce nutmegs, ten eggs, one wineglass brandy. 

Crullers.— Two coffee cups sugar, one coffee cup milk, four eggs, six 
spoonfuls lard, two teaspoonfuls ci'eam tartar, one teaspoonful soda, flour 
to make stiff enough to roll; fry in boiling lard; spice to suit the taste. 

Virginia Snow Cake. — The whites of nine eggs, two cups sugar, four 
cups flour, one cup sweet milk, one cup butter, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 

Water Pound Cake. — One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup 
9f water or milk, four cups of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

No Egg Cake.— Two and a half cups of flour, half a cup each of butter 
and milk, one and a half cupa of brown sugar, and one teaapoonful of soda. 
Flavor with nutmeg. 

Cup Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one-half cup of butter, 
two teaapoonfula of baking powder, four eggs, two and one-half cups of 
flour. 

Crold Cake— Yelks of five eggs, one and three-fourths cups butter, one- 
half cup milk, one and one-quarter cups flour, one cup sugar, two spoonfuls 
baking powder. 



Ice Cream and Summer Drinks. 

French Vanilla Ice Cream._One quart rich sweet cream, half a 
pound of granulated sugar, and the yelks of six eggs. Place the cream and 
BUgar in a porcelain kettle on the fire, and allow them to come to a boil; 
strain through a hair sieve, and having the eggs well beaten add slowly to 
the cream and sugar while hot, at the same time stirring rapidly. Place on 
the fire again, and stir for a few minutes; then pour into the freezer, and 
flavor with one tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Crusked Strawberry Ice Cream. — Three pints best cream, twelve 
otmces pulverized white sugar, two whole egga, and two tableapoonfuls of 



S44 ^nE rronfiSiroLP. 

extract of vanilla. Mix in a porcelain basin, place ovet the fire, and stir 
cqnetantly until it reaches a boiling point. Strain through a hair sieve into 
the freezer, select, hull and crush to a pulp one quart ripe strawberries, 
with six ounces pulverized sugar. Add this pulp to the frozen cream, mix 
well, and give the freezer a few additional turns to harden. 

Coffee Ice Cream. — One quart best cream, half a pint strong coffee, 
fourteen ounces white pulverized sugar, yelks of eight eggs. Mix in a po)-- 
celain-lined basin, place on the fire to thicken, and strain through a hair 
sieve. Put into a freezer and freeze. 

Leinon Ice Cream. — One quart best cream, eight ounces of x^ulverized 
sugar, three whole eggs, and a tablespoonful of extract of lemon. Place on 
the fire, stirring continually Until it reaches the boiUng point, then remove 
and strain into the freezer. 

Italian Orange Ice Cream. — One pint of best cream, twelve ounces 
of pulverized sugar, the juice of six oranges, two teaspoonfuls of orange 
extract, the yelks of eight eggs, and a pinch of salt. 

Biscuit Glaze. — One pint and a half of cream, the yelks of eight eggs, 
and one tablespoonful of vanilla; take six ounces of crisp macaroons and 
pound to a dust; then stir into it another tablespoonful of vanilla; mix the 
cream, sugar and vanilla; place on the fire and stir until it begins to thicken; 
strain into freezer, and when nearly frozen add the macaroon dust and 
finish. Eggs can be left out of all ice cream recipes if desirable. 

Orange Ice.— Squeeze the juice from six large oranges and two lemons; 
pour about five gills of boiling water over the broken peel and pulp and let 
it stand until cool; then strain and add the water to the orange and lemon 
juice. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and freeze. 

Liemon Water Ice.— Rub on sugar the clear rinds of lemons; squeeze 
the juice of twelve lemons, strain them, boil the sugar into a strong, thick 
syrup; add to the juice half a pint of water, or good barley water, sweeten it 
with your syrup, and add the white of an egg and jelly. 

Oranges Cold. — Frozen oranges, for dessert at any season of the year, 
are delicious. Remove the peel and slice the oranges; to each pound of 
oranges add three-quarters of a pound of sugar and one-half pint of water, 
and freeze. 

Red Cuii'ant Fruit Ice. — Put three pints of ripe currants, one pint of 
red raspberries, half a pint of water in a basin. Place on the fire and sim- 
mer for a few minutes, then strain. Add twelve ounces of sugar and half a 
pint of water. 

Raspben-y Water Ice. — Press sufficient raspberries through a hair 
sieve to give three pints of juice, and add one pound of pulverized sugar and 
the juice of one lemon. 

Egg-Nogg — To make a quart take three eggs, nearly a pint of good 
fresh milk, sugar and spice to suit the taste. Put these in a pitcher; add hoi 
water to make a quart; then stir, or change from one vessel to another until 
completely mixed; then add a wineglass or more of the best whiskey. Wine 
may be used instead of whiskey. The eggs and sugar must be thoroughly 
beaten before being put with the hot water. 



CdOS:inG liECTPES. 34.1 

Ginger Beer — White sugar, twenty pounds; lemon juice, eighteen 
ounces; honey, one pound; bruised ginger, seventeen oiinces; water, eigh- 
teen gallons; boil the ginger in three gallons of the water for half an hour; 
then add the sugar, the juice and the honey, with the remainder of the 
water, and strain through a cloth; when cold, add the white of an egg and 
half an ounce of the essence of lemon; after standing four days, bottle. Thia 
beverage will keep for many months. 

Wliite Spruce Beer — Mix together three pounds of loaf sugar, five 
gallons of water, a cup of good yeast, adding a small piece of lemon peel, 
and enough of the essence of spruce to give it flavor. When fermented, pre- 
sei've in close bottles. Molasses or common brown sugar can be used, if 
necessary, instead of loaf, and the lemon peel left out. Sometimes, when 
unable to obtain the essence of spi'uce, we have boiled down the twigs. Thia 
will be found a delightful home drink. 

Sham Champagne.— A good temperance drink is made as follows: 
Tartaric acid, one ounce; one good-sized lemon; ginger root, half ounce; 
white sugar, one and a half pounds; water, two and a half gallons; brewer's 
yeast, four ounces. Slice the lemon, bruise the ginger, and mix all except 
the yeast. Boil the water and pour it upon them; let it stand until cooled 
down to blood heat, then add the yeast and let it stand in the sun all day, 
and at night bottle. In two days it will be lit for use. 

Berry Sherbet. — Crush one pound of berries, add them to one quart ol 
water, one lemon sliced, and ona teaspoonful of orange flavor, if you have 
it. Let these ingredients stand in an earthen bowl for three hours; then 
strain, squeezing all the juice out of the fruit. Dissolve one pound of pow- 
dered sugar in it, strain again, and put on the ice until ready to serve. 

Cherry Kflervescing Drink. — Take a pint of the juice of bruised 
cherries, filter until clear, and make into a syrup with half a pound of sugar; 
then add one ounce of tartaric acid, bottle and cork well. To a tumbler 
three parts full of water, add two tablespoonfula of the syrup and a scruple 
of carbonate of soda; stir well, and drink while effervescing. 

Orangeade or Lemonade. —Squeeze the juice, pour boiling water on a 
little of the peel, and cover close; boil water and sugar to a thin syrup and 
skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with 
as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; then strain. Or, squeeze 
the juice and strain it, then add to it water and capillaire. 

Ginger Lentonade. — Take half cup of vinegar, one cup of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of ginger, stir well together; put iii a quart pitcher and fill with 
ice water. If one wants it sweeter or sourer than these quantities make it, 
more of the needed ingredients may be put in. It is a cooling diink, and 
almost as good as lemonade, some preferring it. 

Iceland Moss Cliocolate. — Dissolve one oxince of Iceland moss in one 
pint of boihng milk; boil one ounce of chocolate for fiye minutes in one pin( 
of boiling water; thoroughly mix the two, and give it to the invalid night and 
morning. This is a highly nutritive drink for invalids. 

Staffordshire Syllabnh. — Put a pint of cider and a glass of brandy 
sugar and nutmeg, into a bowl, and pour milk on the top of it; or pour want 
milk from a larere teapot some height into it. 



34« Tna RousEnoiJ). 

Effervescing T^nmonnd<- — Boil two pouuda of ^vhite sugar -with one 
pint of lemon juice; bottle and cork. Put a tablespoouful of the syrup into 
a tumbler about three parts full of cold water, add twenty grains of car- 
bonate of soda, and drink quickly. 

Cool Summer DrinU—Take one pound finely powdered loaf sugar, 
one ovince of tartaric or citric acid, and twenty drops of essence of lemon. 
Mix immediately, and keep very dry. Two or three spoonfuls of this, 
stirred briskly in a tumbler of water, will make a very pleasant glass of 
lemonade. 

Table Beer. — A cheap and agreeable table beer is made as follows: 
Take fifteen gallons of water, and boil one-half, putting the other into a bar- 
rel; add the boiling water to the cold, with one gallon of molasses and a 
little yeast. Keep the bung hole oiJen till the fermentation is completed. 

Root Beer, — To make Ottawa root beer, take one ounce each of sassafras, 
allspice, yellow dock, and wintergreen, half an ounce each of wild cherry 
bark and coriander, a quarter of an ounce of hops, and three quarts of 
molasses. Pour boiling water on the ingredients, and let them stand twenty- 
four hours. Filter the liquor, and add half a pint of yeast, and it will be 
ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

Milk Lemonade. — ^Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar in 
one pint of boiling water, and mix with them one gill of lemon juice and one 
gill of sherry; then add three gills of cold milk. Stir the whole well 
together and strain it. 

Nice Lemon Beer—Slice two good-sized lemons, put- with them one 
pound of sugar; over these pour one gallon of boiling water, and when 
aboixt milk warm add one-third cup of yeast. Let it stand over night, and 
it is ready for use. 



Confectionery. 
To Make Tomato Figs. — Pour boiling water over the tomatoes, in 
order to remove the skin; then weigh them and place them in a stone jar; 
with as much sugar as you have tomatoes, and let them stand two days; 
then pour off the syrup, and boil and skim until no scum rises. Then pour 
it over the tomatoes, and let them stand two days^ as before; then boil and 
slum again. After the third time they are fit to dry, if the weather is good; 
if not, let them stand in the syrup until drying weather; then place on large 
earthen plates or dishes, and put them in the sun to dry, which will take 
them about a week; after which, pack them down in small wooden boxes, 
with fine white sugar between every layer. 

Walnut Creams. — One cuj) granulated sugar, one-half cup hot water; 
boil like mad two or three minutes or until it jellies in water; cool it 
(almost), beat it very fast until it creams; spread on a platter, halve and 
put on walnuts. This cream is same as chocolate cream. Chocolate for 
cream as follows: One ounce or one square Baker's chocolate in a bowl over 
the teakettle and melt; add one teaspoonful pulvei-ized sugar, a piece of 
butter size of a walnut with the salt washed out; dip the balls of cream into 
this and dry on sheets of paper. The above directions make forty drops, or 
cream for one pound walnuts. 



. COOltlNO RECIPES. U1 

Peppermint Drops—The best peppermint drops are made by sifting 
finely powdered loaf sugar in lemon juice, sufficient to make it of a proper 
consistence; then, gently drying it over the fire a few minutes, and stirring 
in about fifteen drops of oil of peppermint for each ounce of sugar, dropping 
them from the point of a knife. Some persons, instead of using lemon juice, 
merely mix up the sugar and oil of peppermint with the whites of eggs; 
beating the whole well together, dropping it on white paper, and drying the 
drops gradually before the fire, at a distance. 

Pop-Corn Balls. — Take a three-gallon pan and fill it nearly level full 
of popped corn, and then take a cup of molasses and a little piece of butter 
and boil until it will set, or try it in cold water; just a drop will do in water, 
and if it sets, then pour the molasses all around on the corn. Then take a 
large iron spoon and stir well; when well mixed, butter your hands well 
and take corn in both hands, as much as you can press well together, and 
you will have a large and splendid ball. You can iise sugar in the place of 
molasses if you wish it. 

To Sugar or Crystallize Pop Corn— Put into an iron kettle one table- 
spoonful of water-, and one teacup of white sugar; boil until ready to candy, 
then throw in three quarts of corn nicely popped; stu- briskly until the 
candy is evenly distributed over the corn; set the kettle from the fire, and 
Btir until it is cooled a little and you have each grain separate and crys- 
tallized with the sugar; care should be taken not to have too hot a fire lest 
you scorch the corn when crystallizing. Nuts of any kind prepared this way 
are delicious. 

"IValnnt Candy— The meats of hickory nuts, English walnuts, or black 
walnuts may be used according to preference in that regard. After removal 
from the shells in as large pieces as practicable, they are to be placed on 
bottom of tins, pre-siously greased, to the depth of about a half inch. Next 
boil two pounds of brown sugar, a half pint of water and one gill of good 
molasses until a portion of the mass hardens when cooled. Pour the hot 
candy on the meats and allow it to remain until hard. 

Almond Candy. — Take one pound of sugar and about half a pint of 
water; put in part of the white of an egg to clarify the sugar; let this boil a 
few minutes, and remove any scum that rises. When the sugar begins to 
candy drop in the dry almonds; first, however, joii should blanch the nuts 
by pouring hot water over them, and letting them stand in it a few minutes; 
then the skm will slip ofl" readily. Spread the candy on buttered plates to 
cool. 

Sngar Taffy. — One pound sugar put in a pan with half tumbler cold 
water, add one teaspoonful cream tartar, lump of butter size of hickory nut, 
one teaspoonful vinegar (do not stir at all), boil slowly twenty-five minutes, 
and drop a little into cold water, and if crispy it is done; turn on to plates 
and pour on flavoi-ing — lemon and vanilla, half each — pull tillivery white. 

Butter Scotcli. — Take two cups of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of water, 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Boil without stirring until it hardens on 
a spoon. Pour out on buttered plates to cool. 

Chocolate Candy. — One cup brown sugar, one cup white, one cup 
molasses, one cup milk, one cup chocolate, butter the sizQ of a walnut. 



S543 fnS ItOUSEffOLD. 

Lemon Drops— Squeeze the juico of six lemons into a baein; pound 
8ome lump sugar, and sift it through a fine sieve, mix it with the lemon 
Juice, and make it so thick that you can hardly stir it. Put it into a stew 
pan, and stir it over the tire for five minutes, then drop cut of a teaspoon on 
writing paper, and let it stand till cold. 

Candied Leinon Peel. — Peel some fine lemons, with all the inner pulp, 

in halves or quarters; have ready a very strong syrup of white sugar and 
water; put the peels into it, and keep them boiling till the syrup is nearly 
reduced. Take them out and set them to dry with the outer peel down- 
ward. 

Cocoanut Candy. — Grate the meat of a cocoanut, and, having ready 
jwo pounds of finely sifted sugar (white) and the beaten whites of two eggs, 
also the milk of the nut, mix together and make into little cakes. In a short 
time the candy will be diy enough to eat. 

Candied Orange Peel. — Make a very strong syi-up of white sugar and 
water; take off the peels from several oranges in halves or quarters, and 
boil them in the syrup till it is nearly reduced. After this take them out 
and set them to diy with the outer skin downward. 

Vanilla Candy. — Three teacups of white or coffee sugar, one and a half 
teacups unskimmed sweet milk to dissolve it; boil till done, and flavor with 
vauilia; after it cools a little, stir uutU bard and eat when you please. 



LADIES' FANCY WORK. 



WorU Table Cover— This cover if of fawn-colored cloth, ornamented 
elaborately on the ends in application embroidery. The design figures, 
which look dark in the illustration, are applied in broken cloth; on the mid- 
dle of each leaf 
ofthe large mid- 
dle application 
figure apply a 
piece of dark- 
brown velvet. 
Edge all the ap- 
plied figures 
with fawn-col- 
ored soutache, 
and ornament 
the pieces of vel- 
vet besides ia 
point Russe em- 
broidery with 
fawn colored 
saddlers' s i 1 k » 
For the lines of 
the design sew 
on brown sou- 
tache in two 
shades. The 
cover is bor- 
dered with hght 
brown open silk 
tinge an inch 
a n d a quarter 
wide. Brown 
percale lining. 

Imitation 
Coral Hang- 
ing Baskets. — 

Take old hoopa 
with the -cover- 
ing on; bend and tie in any shape desired; tie with wrapping-twine, with 
ends of the twine left one-fourth of an mch long; cover the basket when 
formed with knots or ties about one inch apart all over the basket. Then 
take one half pound of beeswax, melt it in a shallow pan, stir in enough 
Japanese vermihon to get the color you wish, then roll the basket in the 
melted wax until it is covered completely. We have one made in this way, 
that has hung exposed to the weather for two years, and is still ae good as new. 




WORK TABLE COVER. 



850 



THE nOUBETlOLD. 




FIG. 1.— BLACKBEBBT. 



A Pretty Tidy. — Tho reqiiiaitcs aro a ball of numljer fonrteen tidy cot- 
ton, and a wooden frame about twenty inches square, with an inch sprig 

driven half down in the cen- 
'^-^N^-^ ter of each corner, and simi- 

^^^^^t^rt. ,.^ jj^j. Qjjgg along the sides in 

line with these, and an inch 
ajiart. 

Fasten ^jour cotton to the 
second side sprig, and weave 
from this sprig to the one di- 
rectly opposite, passing 
round each sprig three or 
four times; then draw the 
thread to the next sprig anci 
■weave in the same manner. 
Continue this until you reach 
the second sprig from the side you are working toward. Now cross these 
threads in the same way from the other two sides, then cross with the same 
number of threads diagonally in both directions. You will then have in 
your frame four warps, each in dififerent directions. With a needle and tidy 
cotton securely fasten as they are every place where four sets of threads in- 
tersect, drawing the cotton 
from one to another. Cut 
the cotton at every sprig, 
and it ia finished, except 
trimming tlie fringe a little. 
Made in this way they are 
eervicfmble, and less work 
ihan you would think. 

Embroidery Designs. 

—We give a design from 
natural forms (Fig. 1) to 
which the artist has added 
an imaginative edge, al- 
though that has the outlines 
of some leaf forms. For 
fine delicate needlework 
in pure white this forms a 
most graceful design. But, 
where embroidered in the 
colors natural to the leaves 
and fruits, on a boy's or 
girl's jacket, stand cloth or 
ottoman cover, on cloth of 
scarlet or gray, is pretty 
enough for the most fastidi- 
ous. Moreover, this leads 
you to observe and study 
these things, which from your life-long intimacy with them may have failed 
to specially interest you. 

For an initial letter for the comer of a handkerchief, we give two designs 
tFigs. 2 and 3), which serve the treble purpose oluee, ornamentj and menir 




FIG. 2 — INITIAL LETTEB. 



LADIES' FANCY WORK. 



851 



ory of delicious fruits. For a gentleman's handkerchief, nothing can be in 
better taste than his initials wrought in such becoming drapery. And so 
through the whole alphabet you can weave something synonymous from 
nature about each letter. Such work flavors of botany, which is a science 
everj'body should study. Aside from its being a most deUghtful study in 
itself, it is the key to a marvelous world of infinite and ever-varying delights; 
it keeps you fi-om going through life with "our eyes blinded; it tends to 
make you gentle, large-hearted and thankful. These forms will, or ought 
to, stimulate your pencil for drawing. Drawing cultivates your eye as noth- 
ing else will. It educates your hand; it civilizes you generally. Make a 
sketch of anything, and it will ever after possess a new interest. You tread 
on a thousand forms of vegeta- 
tion every day. Can you make 
a drawing of one? The fine 
drawing we give would be a 
nice design for a center of a 
pillow sham. 

Persian Rugs Madft at 

Home—It is easy enough after 
you once know how, and, for 
that matter, so is everything 
you undertake. To make a rug 
you will need plenty of perse- 
verance, for it is a large con- 
tract to make one of ordinary 
size; but it is very pretty work, 
and can be done with ease by 
even those ladies whose failing 
eyesight compels them to give 
up the various fascinating forms 
of fancy work, which are too 
apt to prove a tax to the best of 
eyes. 

Purchase from come carpet 
dealer a supply of scraps of 
tapestry Brussels carpeting; 
pieces that are too small to be 
worked up mto hassocks are ^o. 3.— iottial letteb. 

quite large enough for the purpose. Cut these into strips of any length 
their size allows; but let them be of uniform width, say three inches. Ravel 
these all out, rejecting the linen, and collecting in a box the little crimped 
worsted threads. Then provide yourt;elf with a pair of the largest-sized 
steel knitting-needles, and a ball of the coarsest crochet cotton, either white 
or colored. Set on ten stitches, and after knitting a row or two to make a 
firm beginning, go on as if you were making a garter, but with every other 
stitch lay a thread of the crimped wool across the needles. After knitting the 
stitch, take the end of wool which shows upon the wrong side, and turn it 
toward the right side, knitting a stitch above to secure it. Then put in 
another thread of wool and repeat the process. The back of the strips should 
have something the appearance of that of a body Brussels carpet, while the 
front should be hke a sort of thick, long napped plush. The colors may ba 
used without selection, making a sort of chme effect; or carpets may b* 




3Ga THE noUSEEOLD. 

chosen for raveling wlaich bIiow only shadefl of scarlet Oi blue; or brown 
carpets may be used for the center of the rug, and a border of scai-let or blue 
Bewed on all around. After doing a little of this work, many ideas as to 
arrangement of colors will suggest themselves, and a little practice will en- 
able the knitter to produce some very pleasing results. 

When the strips are all finished they must be sewed together at the back. 
It is only for convenience that they are knitted in strips — the rug, as a whole, 
would be very cumbersome and unwieldy to handle. Some ladies edge a 
Brussels or velvet carpet hearth-rug with a strip of this knitting, thus giving 
a very pretty finish. Small mats for placing ia front of bureaus are also 
very pretty made upon the same plan. 

"WorU Basket. — The basket is of fine wicker-work, the sides are lined 
with gathered satin, and the bottom with eji^»"-Qidered plush; both are tin- 




WOBK BASKET. 

fshed with silk cord. The outside is ornamented with fringe of crewels oi 
various colors. Handles of cord. 

Crocliet Macrame Titly. — Use seine cord No. 8, 

Crochet 57 chain stitches. 

Ist row. — Put thread over hook and crochet in first loop, and so on until 
you have made 9 single shell stitches. Crochet 7 chain, shell 9, chain 7, 
shell 9, chain 7, shell 9. 

2d row.— Turn, chain 3, shell 9 on top of the last made in the first row, 
chain 9, shell 9, chain 9, shell 9, chain 9, shell 9. 

3d row. — Turn, chain 3, then same as last row only making 7 chain in- 
stead of 9. 

4th row. — Turn, chain 3, shell 9, chain 5, place the hook'in the fifth stitch 
of the chain in the 2d row; secure the cham of 7 in with it, chain 4, shell 9, 
and so on to the end of the row. 

Begin again at the beginning and crochet the desired length. Finish all 
around with scallop, with frmge across the lower edge. Run satin ribbon 
through the openings to match your room. 



LADIES' FANOY WORK. 



853 



A Home-Made Hassoclt. — Hassocka, or footstools, are convenient for 
many purposes. Well, let me tell you how easily you can make one out of 
articles that ono considers only lumber, and are often at a loss to know what 
to do with. Take seven tin fruit cans, put one in the middle, and the-other 
six around it; draw around this a band of unbleached mxislin and fasten it 
80 as to keep them fii-mly in place; set them on a piece of paper and cut a 
pattern of the bottom, which then cut in heavy pasteboard. Cover this with 
gray paper muslin for the bottom, as it shps better than anything else. Cut 
out of cretonne a similar-shaped piece for the top, also a band to fit the 




PliLOW SHAM, 

Bides; cord the top piece around tne edge, and sew on the band. Stuff the 
cans with hay or excelsior, and let it be good and thick on top of the cans, 
also, as it will pack in a little while. Draw your cretonne over it, and sew 
firmly to the bottom, and you have your hassock to use on the porch in 
summer, or as a footstool before the fire. It ia strong aa well as very light, 
ajid can be moved easily with the foot. 

Pillow Sham. — Made of linen. The edges cut out Uke design^ turned 
in and basted, then the lace overhanded on, making sure to have it full 
enoijgh on the points; cut a long buttonhole in the end of each point, and 
run colored ribbons through. It is easily made and the effect is ver? 
pretty, -. . . 



351 



THE nousEnoLB. 



Clothes Brash Holder—The basket is of very fine wicker, in the form 
ofaoone; it ia ornamented with an cmbi-oidered drape, which may either 
bo finished with a narrow furniture gimp or tufta 
of crowd; the bottom is covered with silk, which ia 
drawn to a point at the end and linislied by a tassel; 
the top is ornamented with two woolen tassels and 
a rosette. 

Table Covers, Etc. — A rich and handsome 

cover may be made of aida canvas, either square 

or in scarf style, with a wino-colored plush square 

in the center, fastened on with leather stitching fa 

yellow floss. The edge 

of canvas shoi;ld be 

raveled out and knotted 

into fringe, aboiit three 

inches from which 

feathci'-stitch a band of 

plush, and above this 

may be a design worked 

in crewels if it is a scarf, 

or, if square, in each 

corner. 

" Crazy silk patch- 
work " bands are much 

used for decorating ta- 
ble covers, curtains and 

chair covers. The 

pieces must be small 

and of elegant silk, 

satin and velvet. 

A simple and pretty 

table cover for a bed- 
room lamp-stand may 

be made of pale blue 

canton flannel trimmed 

with "antique lace or 

with black velvet rib- 

b n , feather-stitched 

on with yellow floss, 

and the edge finished 

with a fringe of blue 
■worsted tied in. One similar to this made of 
cardinal all-wool canvas or basket flannel is 
pretty for the sitting-room. 

Neat and pretty bureau or wash-stand covers 
are made of scrim or dotted muslin in scarf 
shape, trimmed with deep lace and Uned with 
pink or blue silesia. 

Serviceable and pretty covers for the sofa 
pillow and chair cushions in the sitting-room are 

made of the striped or plaid turkish towels, which are so inexpensive and yet 
pleaejng to the eye» The prettiest pillow shaias used are those made of fo«jr 




1. — CLOTHES BBUSH 
HOLDER. 




2. — BACK OF NO. 



jLABies' fancy work. 



365 



email hem-etitchecl handkerchiefs, joined with lace insertion, finished with a 
frill of lace, and lined to match the other appointments of tho room. They 
need not be made of expensive handkerchiefs; the thinner the better. For- 
tunate are those who possess one of those large wicker or rattan chairs, as they 
may bo decorated so hand- 
somely with colored satin 
ribbon, run in and tied iu 
bows, or a handsome soarf 
about twelve inches wide, 
and long enough to hang 
over the back and go down 
the back and seat, and hang 
over the seat a little. It may 
be made of a strip of plush ia 
the center, and a strip of 
embroidery in crewel work 
on felt, satin, momie cloth 
or canvas of some conti'ast- 
ing color, or worsted work. 
Line and join tho seams 
with fancy stitches in silk, 
and finish the ends with 
fringe. Another handsome 
decoration of a rocker would 
be a cushion covered with 
plush or embroidered can- 
vas. Put a puff of satin 
around the edge, and cover 
tho seam with small che- 
nille cord. A pillow roll for 
the head-rest at the back 
should be made to match, 
and tied on with ribbons. 
Double-faced canton flannel 
in wine color and olive green 
is much used for lambre- 
quins, table covers, curtains 
for archways and double- 
doorways, and also for win- 
dows, but it may fade when 
brought insuch close contact 
with the sun and light. The 
trimming is iisiially a band 
of old gold, feather-stitched 
on, and the edge is finished 
with fringo or a hem. 

Hanging Basket. — 

The basket is wicker-work, 

and the band at the top is 

of light blue cloth four inches deep, with a scalloped piece a darker shade 

over it. The long stitches on the dark cloth are of the lightest shade of blue 

ailk, with a eilver thread running with it, Throngh the wickers run satin 




HA^GIJ^iO BASKET. 



8S6 



THE HOUSEHOLD. 



ribbon. Combine the two ehadee of blue in the tassels, 'with the eilvOT 
■wound round the tops of them. Heavy cord and tassels to hang it up by. 
The same design of trimming will answer for any shaped basket. 

Ornamental Scrap Bag or Basket. — This basket, to hang against the 
wall, is composed of cardboard, covered with gray linen, embroidered with 
brown wool, and fastened in a cane stand. Cut out first a piece of card> 
board for the back and the bottom, and five pieces for the front. Bind them 
■with a crossway strip of gray linen, cover them "with gray linen, and work on 
the outside with brown wool the design in point russe, the stitches being 
taken through the cardboard. Then line the pieces ■with linen and sew thea 




OKNAMENTAIi SCRAP BAG. 

together. Next prepare five pieces of thin cane, four and one-half inches 
long, for the edges of the back, and five four and one-half inches long, five 
four inches long, and six five inches long, for the front of the basket. At 
one-half inch fi-om the ends cut a little hollow m the canes, and then fit 
them to each other and tie them together, first ■with strong thread and then 
with bro-wn ribbon, according to illustration, and secure the basket into the 
stand. For the cover, cut a piece of cardboard according to the shape of the 
upper part of the- back, doubled. Cut it in half through along the center, 
cover the side on which you mad« the incision with linen, and work on one- 
half of the design seen in illustration to the back of the' basket, double 
the cover, sew the edge of the linen tog^ether, and sew on a cord. 



ZADtSS' PaN-CT work. 



m 



leaving a loop in the middle. Two brass rings sewn at the back serT« 

to hang up the 

basket. 

Toilet Pin- 
riisliion. — The 

foundation is a 
square o f lining" 
about seven 
inches, s t u fl' e d 
with sawdust; it is 
covered witii-plain 
satin; satin rib- 
bon of a, contrast- 
ing color is folded 
into points, and 
disposed accord- 
ing to design; tassela ornament the comers; a square of fine Irish linen, six 

inches when hemmed (the hem 
one inch deep), is placed corner- 
wise over the cushion; this square 
i s ornamented with drawn 
thrfds and cross-stitch em- 
broiaery in silk the color of the 
satin. 




TOIUCT PrN-CUSHION. 




KEEDLE CUSHION. 



Needle Citsliion. — We give a 
design for a needle cusliion, the 
frame of wliich can be made of 
rustic work. The leet can be 
connected by a chain, as the 
sketch indicates. The cushion 
can be filled with emery and or- 
namented with any kind of needle-work that may suit the fancy. The edge 
may be ornamented with fringe, 
gimp, o r other convenient and 
suitable material. 

Pen "Wiper. — Twelve disks of 
cloth of various colors are edged 
with crystal beads. The rounds 
may be of any size wished, accord- 
ing as the pen wiper is required, 
large or small. They are then 
folded in four, and fastened to- 
gether in the center with a few 
stitches of strong silk. 

Wheat Ear Edging;. — Cast 

on five stitches. 1. Two plain 

stitches; thread over, one plain, 

thread over twice and purl two - pen wiper. 

together. 2. Thread over twice, 

purl two together, four plain. 3. Knit three plain, thread over one, plain, 




238 THE noVSEHOLL. 

thread over twice, purl two together. 4. Over twice, pari two together, five 
plain. 5. Knit four plain, over, one plain, ovor twice, purl two together. 
6. Over twice, purl two together, six plain. 7. Knit six plain, thread over 
twice, purl two together. 8. Over twice, purl live together, three plain; 
then commence again at lirst row. 

Music Portfolio and Stand — This stand, as we illustrate it, is made ol 
turned wood, with a portfolio made of pasteboard, covered with a design ol 
needle-woi'k. Music stands of this sort aro very convenient, as every 
musical family knows; but such a stand can be made as well, look as appro- 




MUSIO PORTFOLIO AND ST.UfD, 

priate and perhaps more ornamental, if made of rustic work. The woods, 
and often even the wood-pile, will afford abundant material for its manufac- 
ture, and when made by ingenious and loving hands, renders it, though o.' 
homely and inexpensive materials, nearly priceless in value. 

Basket for Fruit — Pretty baskets for serving large irwxi for luncheon 
are easily made. Take four pieces of cardboard and cover with any material 
preferred, and ou each piece work or jjaint the flower of the fruit which the 
basket will contain. Fasten the pieces together by a knotted cord. Over 
the fruit throw a square of delicate macrame lace. 



LADIES' FAKCY WOTIK. 



359 



A Ijesson in Decorating. — Choose a plain, smooth, red-clay flower-pot. 
If it is rather stupid-looking all the better. With your box of water-color 
paints, lay broad bands of dull blue around top and bottom. If you prefer, 
you can paint the intervening strip black, instead of leaving it red, and the 
bands may be divided by a narrow lino of yellow. Now you are ready for 
the pictures. If you possess some sheets of little scrap-chromos, you will 
soon be rid of your task. Select some very odd, grotesque ones, that will 
surprise each other as much as possible — a huge butterfly, tiny Madonna, 
reptiles, sj^rays, zebras, and the lilve. Paste them on in the most disorderly 
order you can imagine, and your work is complete. Another method is to 
cut from picture papers a quantity of small designs, being careful to trim 
them very neatly. Paint these all black, and lay on a dull red or blue 
ground. Whichever plan you choose, be careful and not decorate too pro- 
fusely, as that would be quite unlike the Japanese, while it would hint most 
strikingly of a merry, mischievous little gii-1. 



Fancy Card Basket.- 

ia lined with quilted satin. 
embroidered ^ith silk. 



-The foundation of this basket is of wire, and it 
The drapes are of cloth pinked at the edges and 




FANCY CURD BASKET. 



Antique I/ace. — Cast on fifteen stitches. 

1. Knit three, over, narrow, knit three, over, knit one, over, knit six. 

2. Knit six, over, luiit three, over, narrow, knit three, over, narrow, knit 



3. Knit three, over, narrow, narrow again, over, knit five, over, knit six. 

4. Cast off four, knit one, over, narrow, knit three, narrow, over, narrow, 
knit one, over, nari-ow, knit one. 

5. Knit three, over, narrow, knit one, over, narrow, knit one, narrow, 
over, knit threa , 

6. Knit three, over, knit one, over, slip two, knit one, jjass the slipped 
stitches over the knitted one, over, knit four, over, narrow, knit one, begin 
again from the first row. 

Ho-»v to niake a Screen. — The accompanying illustration is that of a 
beautiful but expensive screen, which, however, may serve as a guide in the 
making of a much cheaper one. The frame-work of this is of carved wood, 
the screen itself of embroidered silk, covered with sheer white muslin, with 



360 



TUK nOUSEHOLD. 




a plaited edge, wliich is put over the silk for protection. The height and 

width of a screen may vary, of course, according to the size of the heater or 

grate, and may consist of one piece 
as in the illustration, ©r of two, 
three, or half a dozen, joined by 
by hinges and resembling the con- 
struction of cloth bars. Black 
walnut is a handsome wood of 
which to make the frame, which 
may be fashioned plainly or orna- 
mented to one's taete; but if that 
bb to expensive, a cheaper wood 
may be employed, and stained to 
imitate something better. Cherry 
is again growing into great favor, 
and nothing could be prettier than 
a frame made of that. 

For the shade or screen proper 
a gi-eat variety of matei-ials may 
be iised. For convenience, make 
a light frame (like those over 
which mosquito netting is drawn 
for windows), which will neatly 
fit inside the other; over this 
stretch smoothly and nail a piece 

of strong muslin or canvas, as the ground work for the ornamentation; in 

lieu of this tin might be used; wood is too much warped by the action of the 

heat. The canvas may be covered with gay-colored chintz, at twelve and a 

half cents per yard, or handsome cretonne 

at sixty cents, or brocaded silk, painted satin, 

or a large fine print or engraving or embroid- 
ered cardboard or canvas— almost anything 

one's fancy may devise. 

A very showy screen recently seen on 

exhibition had a black backgi-oiind on which 

"was pasted all sorts, sizes, colors, and kinds 

of cheap prints, carefully cut out and applied 

without any regularity of design, and then 

the whole heavily varnished. The effect was 

very gay and sparkUng. Pressed ferns and 

autumn leaves, artistically arranged on a 

white or light backgroixnd, -or even black 

look finely; the back of the leaves should be 

well touched with mucilage, so as to adhere 

firmly. For a black background, velveteen, 

or plain black paper, to be had wtere wall 

paper is sold, are good. 

Slipper Case. — Qjit two pieces of card- slippeb case. * 

board the size desired; cover them ■udth 

momie cioth. Then cut of cardboard a smaller piece for the pocket; cover 
it on one side with the cloth, and fasten it in the center of one of the large 
pieces; then finish where it is joined with a worsted cord. Overhand the 




LADIES' FAXCY WOE IT. 



361 



The spread may be lined or 



two large pieces together, aqd sew the cord all around the edge. To hang 
it, sew on two large brass rings at the back of the two top-side scallops. 

A Handsome Lace Spread. — With forethought and some money one 
can easily make a beautiful set of pillow shams and spreads without any 
great expense. From time to time buy, as you see those which please you 
and are cheap, squares of antique lace; they come in all kinds of pretty de- 
signs. Choose those of uniform size and of the same quality. When you 
have enough set them together with a stripe of satin. Remnants of satin can 
be purchased sometimes at very low figures. For a border, catch the 
squares together diagonally and fit it in half squares of the satin. Put the 
edge of the lace squares over the satin, having first taken the ijrecaution to 
overcast very dehcately the edges of the satin. 
not, as you please. The pillow covers 
should be made to match. With proper 
care a set of this kind will last a long 
time, and when one considers the com- 
fort of always ha\dng a handsome cover- 
ing for the bed at hand to dress it up for 
great occasions, the outlay of time and 
money does not appear to have been 
wasted. 

Hanging Card-Receiv«r and 
■\Vatcli Case. — Take two pieces of card, 
ten inches long and three and one-half 
inches wide, and cut the ends pointed as 
the design shows. Cover both pieces 
with velvet or silk, and embroider a vine 
of flowers on one end, or if preferred 
paint in water colors. Overhand the two 
pieces together and finish the edge with 
gilt coz'd. Make a ring of twisted cord at 
the top. Bend the card up at three inches 
to form the rack, and fasten at the sides 
with cord and tassels. Twist a large hook 
with gilt wii-e and sew an inch below 
the ring at the top, for the watch. 

To Prepare Skeleton Leaves — A CAKD-EECEIVKE AND WATCH CASE, 
ready method of preparing skeleton 

leaves is the followmg: Make a solution of concentrated lye in hot water, in 
the proportion of about two ounces of lye to a quart of water; or, if this is 
not convenient, prepare the lye by dissolving four ounces of common wash- 
ing soda in a quart of water, adding about two ounces of fresh quick lime, 
boiling for about a quarter of an hour, and when cool decanting the liquid 
from the sediment. Place the leaves in this solution, and allow it to boil for 
about an hour, or until by trial the pulpy part of one of the lea,ves allows 
itself to be readily removed. When this is the case, the leaves are carefully 
removed, one by one, floated on a sheet of glass, and the pulp is removed 
by gently tapping or beating with a painter's stiff brush, or the Mke, taking 
care not to apply a rubbing motion, which would destroy the fibres as well. 
From time to time the disintegrated. pulp should be washed away by allow- 
ing a stream of wiiter to flow on the glass. When this operation has been 





TOILET BOTTLE CASE. — FIG. 1. 



882 THE nOjrSEUO LT>. 

properly performed, nothing of the leaf remains behind bnt tho network oi 

fibres, or the skeleton. 
Tho next step is to 
bleach the skeletoa 
leaves, which is easily 
done by placing them 
in a shallow dish of 
"water, to which a small 
quantity of chloride of 
lime has been added 
(say about a teaspoon- 
ful to a quart). In a 
day or two, at most, the 
fibres will be found 
bleached to a p u r e 
white, when they should 
bo removed to a vessel 
■ of fresh water for final 
' cleansing, in which they 
should remain for an- 
other day. From this 
they should b e re- 
moved, placed between 
the folds of a soft linen cloth, and allowed to di-y; they are then ready to be 
pressed, curled, or arranged into ornamental designs, 
according to fancy. 

Another method of disintegrating the pulp of tho 
leaves, which is sometimes followed, is to place them iu 
a dish of water, keeping them beneath the water by tho 
use of a sheet of glass, and exposing them to the sun- 
light. The disintegration takes place slowly, requiring 
two weeks or thereabouts to complete it. The subse- 
quent operations are the same as those above described. 

Toilet Bottle Case — The case is made on a circular 
foundation of cardboard, four inches wide, lined with 
black silk and covered Avith black cloth Vandykes round 
the edge. The latter is embroidered in satin overcast 
and feather stitch (see Fig. 2). The flowers are worked 
alternately in white and blue, the rosebuds With pink, 
^nd the wheat cars with maize silk. The branches and 
Bprays are worked with several shades of olive and fawn- 
colored silk. On this foundation is sewn a cylindrical 
case of cardboard, two and a half inches high, and lined 
-within and without with black satin. Two box-plaited 
Tuchings of satin ai-e arranged round it, and above these 
is a Vandyke strip of black cloth embroidered in tho 
fiame designs and colors as above described. 




TOILET BOTTLE 
CASE. — FIO. 2. 



Parlor Ornament — Purchase a plain Indian straw 
l)asket, one of neat manufacture and pretty shape; paint 
it black; this gives an effective background for the fruit designs painted on 
the sides and ends; line th« basket with brightly tinted velvet, cover the 



LADIES' FANCY WORK. 



3C5 



handle with silver or gold cord; the same should run along the edges of the 
opening. This dainty piece of home art forma a lovely card basket. A 
common straw hat, a size to lit a boy of six years, can be made into an 
artistic novelty. Face the brim with satin nicely pleated; till the crown 
•with artificial flowers; secure them from tumbling out by long loops of 
threads; suspend the hat from the top of a cabinet or music stand; the effect 
is very bright and pleasing. Industrious fingers willing to devote time to the 
manipulation of home decoration may shape out many lovely things from 
])it8 of silk, satin, velvet, and scraps of all wool goods. The top of a table 
covered with work of this kind is very handsome, and a like decoration for 
a carved bracket is 
remarkably showy. 

CattU-All The 

frame-work of this 
article is made of 
pieces of cardboard 
sowed together The 
materials required 
for the outside are 
drab Holland cre- 
tonne, flowers, fancy 
braid, and worsted 
to match flowers i 
color. A cord i 
drawn through eye ^ 
let holes at the toi ff' 
of the bag, and j^^ 
large tassel of woi 
sted finishes the bot 
torn. 

A Rosette. — 

Rosettes are often 
useful in tidies, bo: 
ders and the liki 
To make the above, 
begin with a chain 
of four stitches, and 
unite in a ring. In 
this loop work twenty 
trebles. 

Second round. — catch all, 

"Work one chain and 

one treble over each treble of the last round. Third round. — * On the treble 
and next chain make a leaf thus: The cotton twice round the needle, take up 
the stitch, work through two, cotton on the needle, draw through two; cot- 
ton on the needle, take up the stitch again, work through two, cotton on the 
needle, work through two; cotton on the needle, take up the next stitch, and 
work all off the needle, two loops at a time; then four chain. Repeat from *. 
Fourth round. — One DC on the middle of the four chain, * five chain, 
one DC on the middle of the '>ext four chain; repeat from *. Fasten off 
neatly at the end of the round 




d64 



TTTE JTOUSEBOLB. 




Ottoman — Materials: Wino and canary-colorod cloth, heavy cord and 
tassels. Make a cushion of ticking a loot square, fill it tightly with curled 

hair, then make a case of 
the wine-colored cloth, 
and Lq the seam round 
the edg(? of the case full 
in one edge of the pieca 
to form the puff, then turn 
it up, and turn in the 
upper edge and box-plait 
it, and sew firmly on the 
top of the case, leaving a 
space in the center nine 
inches square. Cut of the 
light cloth a piece for the 
center like the design, 
and braid it with gilt, 
OTTOMAN. i"®*!' blue, and black 

braids, having the edge 
of the star pinked. Easten it to the cushion in each point ^ith a large bead, 
and finish each comer with a tassel. Draw the cord round the ottoman 
firmly, and tie in a knot, leaving a loop in the center to lift it by. 

Toilet or AVorlt Bii«]cet. — Use black, polished, round wooden or bamboo 
rods, an inch in circumference, 
two thin plates of wood four 
inches long and two and three- 
fifths inches wide, white satin, 
green velours, shaded green, 
pink, purple, and brown t^\'ist 
sUk, fine gold cord, green silk 
ribbon one-fifth of an inch wide, 
four white Venetian beads, four 
bronze rings, stout cardboard, 
small steel tacks, white sewing 
silk. 

The frame of our model is 
constructed of four i^illar-like 
rods, each eight inches long, and 
holding between them two 
boxes, each consisting of fight 
Tvooden or bamboo rods, and a 
thin wood bottom four inches 
long, and two and three-fifths ^ 
inches wide. The lower box, 
■which is one and four-fifths 
inches high, requires four rods 
five and three-fifths inches long, 
and ioi;r rods four and one-fifth 
inches long. The upper box, which is two and one-fifth inches high, is of 
exaetly the same size at the bottom, while for the top, which curves out- 
■ward, the two long rods must be each six inches long, while the cross rods 
require a length ©f five and one-fifth inches. Small steel tacks connect the 




TOILET OK WOBK BASKET. 



LADIES' FAXCT WORK. 



365 



various parts, those which arc arranged into squares being notched where 
they intersect. Each of these squares encloses a pasteboard box covered 
with green velours on the inside, and on the outside with white satin, deco- 
rated by an embroidery of colored silks. The box is fastened at the top to 
rods by means of overhand slitches of gold cord, making the rod appear as 
if twisted with tho gold cord. The bows decorating the upper corners of the 
boxes are made of gi-een ribbon, ten inches long, sewed to the rods in tho 
middle and then tied. The handle, which is fastened to tho upper box by 
means of steel tacks, and is decurated with two ribbon bows, measures fif- 
teen inches in length, and is to be wound about with gold cord. The four 
pillars are decorated at their tips by Venetian beads resting on bronze rings. 

Sofa PilloAv. — Knitting or crochet. An exceedingly comfortable pillow 
to hang on a chair-back or to use when traveling is well illustrated in the 
cut herewith presented. Knit or crocheted in squares of different calora, 




CEOCHET SOFA PILLOW OB BOLSTEK. 

almost any stitch may be used, according to tho fancy of the workers, and 
when stuffed and finished, with cord and tassels for the ends, and hung ou 
the back of the " old rocking- chair," it forms no mean addition to the com- 
fort and ornamentation of a room. The predominant colors of the room Avill 
suggest the appropriate ones to be used, but should there be no decided 
eolor prevaiUng, a pillow made of alternate dark red and olive squares 
will be found both handsome and ■ durable, as far as showing dust or soil 
from the head. 

Plush Mosaic. — ^The designs for this new and beautiful^work can be pux- 
chased all ready prepared for use; but as many would Uke to try it who 
may find it difficult to procure them, they can, by following the given direc- 
•tions, cut and arrange their own. One best suited to it js a border of autumn 
leaves, as the rich, variegated colors can be veiy effectively rendered in 
gold,, crimson, brown and green. Maple leaves are prettiest, both in form 
anu color, and the size should be varied, some large, others small, arrang- , 
ing them as a border. If possible, select several of the natural leaves, and 
cnt the exact pattern ia paper. The plush may be purchased in small quan- 



3CC 



THE HOUSEHOLD. 



titles, an eighth of a yard of each color sufficing for a number of leaves. Lay 
the paper patterns on the plush and cut with a pair of sharp scissors leaves 
from the different colorn. The groundwork is of plush; for instance, a scarf 
for the top of an upright piano may bo of olive plush with a lining of cardinal 
satin, and a border of autumn leaves. These shoiild be lu-ettUy arranged 
across the ends of the scarf, and each leaf basted to keep it in place. The 
edges are fastened down with tinsel or gold thread, and as it sinks into tho 
soft plush, shows only a slight, glistening outline. The stems should bo 
worked with silk matching tho diflerent shades of the leaves. The veining 
of the leaves is also worked with tho same color of silk, and as it makes only 
a slight depression or crease in the plush, gives a very pretty natural effect. 
The leaves can be shaded by using different shades of plush. For instance, 
one-half of a leaf may be light crimson, the other a shade or two darker; or 
the point of a leaf may bo turned over, showing light green against dark. 
Arranging them in this way gives variety, also less stiffineaa of design. 




HANBKEECHIEF BOS. 

These same plush designs may be iised on sateen or cloth, although in this 
case the term " mosaic" would not bo applied. The design described would, 
howevea, be very pretty arranged on a ground-work of either of these ma- 
terials. This work is very beautiful for table covers, lambrequins, portieres 
or any large article that may require a decorative border. 

HandUercliief Box. — Take a fancy letter-paper box that is square, and 
oijeus in the center; make a tufted cushion of satin on the top, and put an 
■tasertion of white lace around it with the same color underneath. If careful, 
with a very little glue, the sides can be covered with satin, finishing the 
edges with a silver or gilt cord. Complete the box by placing a little per- 
fume sachet inside. This makes a pretty present and is not expensive, as 
often small pieces of silk will answer the purpose of covering. 

Knittetl Insertions — No. 1, Twist pattern— Cast on six stitches for each 
pattern. First six rows: Plain. Seventh row: Slip three loops on a spare 
needle, leave them and knit tho next three; then knit those on the spare 
eeedle. Repeat these seven rows. No. 2, Feather Pattern — Cast on twenty- 



LADIES' FANCY WORK. 



aer 



five stitches for each pattern, First row: Knit two together fonr times; then 
over and one plain eight times; then knit two together four times, and purl 
the last stitch. Second, third, and fourth rows : Plain. Repeat from first row. 

AVall PocUet._Wo give herewith an illustration of a wall-pocket, which 
is ornamental and useful. It may be used for visiting cards, letters, papers, 
•awing-materials, slippers, and various odds and onds. Almost any kind of 




material may be used, but something bright has more attractivencBS. The 
one the drawing was made from was of silk, of blue silk, lined with com 
color, -ft-ith cord of blue and gold, and -n-ith raised embroidery in silk. The 
framework is cut from stiff paper. "\\Tieu designed ^vlth especial reference 
to slippers, the pocket is cut quite in the shape of a slipper, with a loop at 
the heel, from which it is hung. For Christmas gifts they form pretty ob- 
jects for devoted fingers to manufacture. 

Floral Transparency— Tho pretty transparency represented on next 
page ia made by arranging pressed ferns, grasses, and autumn leaves on a 



S68 



THE IIOUSEIIOLI). 



pane of •window-glass, whioli should be obscured, laying another tranaparwii 
pane of the same size over it, and binding the edges with ribbon, leaving the 
group imprisoned between (use gum tragacanth in putting on the binding). 
It is well to secure a narrow stri]:! of paper under the ribbon. The binding 
should bo gummed all around the edge of the first pane, and dried before 
the leaves, ferns, etc., are arranged; .then it can be neatly folded over the 
second pane without difficulty. To form the loop for hanging the trans- 
parency, paste a binding of galloou along the upper edge, leaving a two-inch 
loop free in the center, afterward to be pulled through a little slit in the final 
binding. These transparencies may either be hung before a window, or, 

if preferred, secured 
against a pane in the 
sash. In country haUa 
a beautiful effect is pro- 
duced by placing them 
against the side-lights of 
the hall doof. WTiere 
the side-lights are each 
of only a single pane, it 
is well worth while to 
place a single trans- 
parency against each, 
filling up the entire 
space, thus affording 
ample scope for a free 
arrangement of the ferns, 
grasses, and loaves, 
while the effect of the 
light is very fine. Leaves 
so arranged will pre- 
serve their beautiful ap- 
pearance throughout the 
entire winter. 

FlOAver Patterns 
for f^inbroidery. 

Great taste can be dis- 
played in selecting ap- 
propriate flower patterns 
for an embroidered de- 
sign. The double and 
single hyacinths, com- 
bined with a tuUp, give a lovely effect. The fine dark blue of the former 
and the scarlet-margined yellow of the latter show to splendid advantage on 
black velvet or deep brown satin. White and purple lilacs mixed with the 
gold and yellow crocus give a striking design for flOss and bead needlework. 
On a dark brown of some rich goods. The light blue crocus, with its pretty 
tippings of snow white, combines richly with the double red anemone, a de- 
sign well suited for a center-piece on a table or a piano cover. The border 
would look handsome worked in some sort of creeping plant, with the cor- 
ners finished off in star anemones clustered with autumn leaves. The Belle 
Laura tuUp is of a lovely violet hue enhanced in beauty by the mixture of 
white; this flower is'very effective in large pieces of embroidery with a touch 




TLOEAX, TEANSPAKENCX. 



LADIES' FANCY WORK. 



369 



of brilliant green foliage. A cluster of osalis, with their brilliant hues and 
dark green leayes, give a charming effect. Combined with pansies, this de- 
Bign is a lo-vely pattern for the center of a sofa pillow; the border should be 
worked in buds and smilax. A bunch of heliotrope wrought in silk and 
■worsted on black velvet gives a handsome design for appUque work on satin 
to be used for various decorative effects in upholstery. The beat and most 
correct designs in flowers are made from the natural plants. The tints are 
easily matched in silk and worsted, and even in beads the various colors are 
given. 

Lamp Sbade. — Matenals: Three sheets of tissue paper, each one a 
shade darker than the other; six fancy colored pictures, one-eighth yard of 
white tarlatan, and one sheet of gilt paper. Cut six pieces of cardboard the 
shape of pattern, cover them with the tarlatan, then glue the gilt paper ou 




LAMP SHADE. 

one side of each, just turning it over the edges. Then cut of the tissue paper 
square pieces the size of pattern; fold them across from corner to comer; 
then fold again, and run the four edges together and draw up tightly, form- 
ing the leaves. Sew them on as seen in the design, putting in the different 
shades. Fasten each section of the shade together by just tying at the top 

and bottom with coarse, waxed thread. Glue a fancy picture in the center 

of each section.^ 

Q,aUt Ijining.—A. handsome lining for a fancy silk quilt is made of plain 
Burah silk, or, if that is too expensive, plain soft cashmere of a pretty color 
serves very nicely. It is often a question how the lining shall be tacked to 
the outside without marring its beauty. A very pretty way is to first baste 
the outside carefully on the hning — then divide the lining into squares, 
marking the comers of each square with a thread. A pretty star may than 
be embroidered at every point, catching the two sides together, but takmg 
care that the stitches.do not show on the right side. A cardinal lining with 



370 



THE EOUSEHOLB. 




GLOVE BOX AND COTEB. 



stars embroidered in yellow silk is quite showy. A darker or lighter shade 

of the same color as the lin- 
ing used for the stars makes 
a tasteful combination. 

Glove Box and Cover. 

— A glove box of the kind we 
illustrate may be cut and 
made from a large paper 
box. After the edges are 
neatly sewed, paste neatly 
over the outside a cover of 
white mushn, to make the 
box strong. Line and cover 
both box and cover with 
silk, finishing the edges with 
large sUk cord or chenille. 
The outside may be ornamented in a variety of ways. Additional ornamen- 
tation may be secured by cutting curves in the sides of the cover. Both 
admit of much ingenuity and display of taste in arrangement and trimming. 
Attached covers are convenient for 
careless users, and much more easily 
trimmed, being simply fastened at the 
back, and Ufted and closed like a trunk 
cover. Instead of using silk as a cover- 
ing, perforated paper (never get that in 
white, as it soon soils) lain against a 
smooth paper or cloth of a different 
color, and the silver and gold paper, 
perforated with large, square meshes, 
with initials or other ornament wrought 
in chenille, silk, or worsted, maj be 
used to advantage. 

Saclxet— The sachet is of old-gold 
plush, embroidered with rosebuds and 
leaves, and tiimmed with lace and bows 
of ribbon. 

Handkercliief Cases. — If for a gen- 
tleman, the size of the case would b3 
eleven inches by eighteen inches, doub- 
ling down the center; for a lady, four- 
teen inches square; it should be lined 
with silk, and lightly wadded, the wad- 
ding being scented. Cut a piece of 
satin, twenty-six inches long, and eleven 
inches broad, and line it with fine flan- 
nel, and a piece of satin quilted before- sachet. 
hand over it. Turn in the edges all 

round, and sew over neatly; fold the two ends in toward each other, until 
they meet to within about an inch. Sew over the double edges at the sides, 
and fold up the case. The handkerchiefe slip in on either side, into the two 




LADIES' FANCY WOEK. 



371 



pockets thus formed, the plain onea being arranged on one side and the 
fancy ones on the other. These cases are convenient if they are scented, 
■which is done by sprinkhug sachet on to the flannel before the satin luiing 
is added, and ■n'ith a thin layer of cotton wool above. We may add that the 
eatui should be quilted on to a thin piece of lining. We have given the dimen- 
sions to allow for turning in. There is another shape made like a large en- 
velope. The size and shape must be similar to the other, only the upper 
part which forms the flap to the envelope is brought to a point in the center, 
■with each side turned in. A silk cord is sometimes added all round tha 
sachet, and finished off at the point with a loop, which forms the button-hole, 
while the button is placed on 
the lower side of the case. 

Liadies' Fancy Bag Purse. 

—The lower part of the purse 
bag is formed of black silk, in 
spider-web lace, Uned with 
crimson silk, as also the upper 
part of the bag. Cords of crim- 
son silk draw the purse together 
near the top, and tassels are 
placed at each di\ision and one 
at the bottom. 

Croclieted Slia.-wl. — Mate- 
rial: Six ounces of Shetland 
wool. 

Make a chain the length of 
the longest edge of the shawl, 
which is three-cornered. The 
chain should be a multiple of 
six. After making the chain * 
throw the thread over the needle 
and catch into the third stitch 
from the needle, draw the 
thi-ead through, thread over, 
draw through two, thread over, 
through two. This is the treble 
crochet stitch. Make eight more 
of these stitches in the same 

chain stitch. Put the needle through the third stitch from the shell and 
draw the thread through this stitch and the one on the needle. This is 
single crochet stitch. Repeat from * to the end of the chain and break th6. 
thread. 

2. Catch the thread in the middle stitch of the first shell of the preceding 
row. * Make three chain stitches, thread over the needle, put the needle 
through the next stitch to the one in which the thread is fastened, draw 
thread thi'ough, thread over, through two; keeping this loop and the fonner 
one on the needle, put thread over and make the same kind of stitch in the 
next stitch of the shell. Continue in this manner until there are ten stitches 
on the needle, then throw the thread over and draw through all the stitches, 
four chain and single crochet into the middle stitch of the next shell, Repeal 
from* 




ladies' fancy bag PtTKSE. 



»72 



THE BOUSEEOLD. 



8. Cakh the thread in the same stitch as the preceding row and * make 
nine trebles in the middle of the first shell of the second row, single crochet 
into the single crochet at the end of the first shell in second row. Repeat 
from *. 

4. Like second row. 

5. Like third row. • 

Sclgsor Ca.se and IVeedle Cushion. — This is a neat little case intended 
to hang upon the wall near the sewing machine or work table. Our pattern 
is made up of brown silk, and finished with three rows of cords. The cords 
are ^IgO stitched on as finish for the pockets, which are aewn on the case 

itself. Cut from the 
illustration a pattern 
in pasteboard and a 
similar one in silk, 
allowing a margin to 
turn in. To make it 
more substantial line 
the silk with thin 
muslin. The back can 
be covered with cam- 
bric to match the color 
of the silk. The needle 
cushion measures 
three inches across, 
lined with muslin, 
and drawn in at the 
edge with a small 
cord to give it the 
proper curve; fill with 
emery, fine sand, or 
wool, if preferred. 

Table Mats 

Make a chain of 
twenty-five stitches. 

DC. all around to 
the beginning and 
turn the work. There 
is one stitch upon the 
hook; put the hook 
back through the last loop through which the cotton was drawn, put the 
cotton over the hook and draw it through that loop alone; then put the cot- 
ton over the hook and draw through the two loops upon the hook — DC. the 
row of loops on the back side of the mat to the end. 

Crochet twice in each of the three adjoining loops at the end — DC. to tha 
other end. Crochet twice in each of the two adjoining loops at that end, 
bringing the ends of the first row around the mat together. 

Bring the cotton in front of the hook which has upon it one loop, put th« 
hook through a loop at the end of this row where it commenced, and draw 
the cotton through the two loops upon the hook joining the row. 

Turn the work over, put the hook back through the last loop that ih» 
?otton was drawn through, put the cottoa wver the hook, draw through that 




SOISSOB CASE AND NEEDLE CUSHION. 



lADIES' FA2<rCY WORK. 



m 



loop alone, put the cotton over the hook and draw through the two Icops. 
Crochet twice in the first loop of each of the two loops that had two 
stitches put in them. 

Proceed down the side to the other end— crochet twice in the first of each 
of the three loops that had two stitches put in them, then go on to the begin- 
ning of the row, join and turn over the mat as before. 

Continue until the mat is of sufficient size. 

For the border pass one loop and make in the second five TO. stitches. 
Pass one loop and (listen down by DC. iu the next and so on around the 
mat. 

The length of the chain in the middle of course determines the size of 
the mat. For coffee and tea pots make a chain of six, and fasten togetJier. 
Crochet twice in every stitch 
to start the six points for 
widening. 

The cotton suitable is Dex- 
ter's No. 6 four threads. A. 
hook small enough to make it 
very compact should be used. 
The stitches to be crocheted 
all the time are upon the back 
of the mat. 

The mat is worked in 
ribbed (DC.) crochet, the 
hook being placed in the out- 
side half of each loop, and 
the work turned at the end of 
each round. The increasings 
are, of course, to turn the 
comers, and the rounds are 
completed by an SC. before 
turning back. 

Hanging Portfolio. — 

This is made of pasteboard, 

covered with gilt or white 

satin paper. It can be of any 

size you wish. It may be left 

plain or a picture pasted on 

in front. Lace the sides together with a cord or ribbon. Hang with a cord 

and tassel. This is ornamental and useful for holding small articles. 

Plush Thermometer Frame. — Eemove from the tin frame an ordinary 
thermometer, and cut a piece of stiff pasteboard to fit it like a picture frame. 
It should be about two inches wide. Cut a piece of light blue pluah to fit 
the frame exactly, and gum it on the back. Draw this smoothly over the 
frame and turn the raw edges of the plush over to the under side of the 
frame. Paint on the plush a pretty design of golden-rod. Cut a piece of 
pasteboard, exactly the size of the frame, and cover with Hght-blue silk or 
paper musUn. Overhand the edges of this and the plush together with blue. 
eewing silk. Sew across the back a loop by which to hang it, or if it is pre- 
ferred standing, fjaaten securely at the back a long wire, shaped lik« a bail* 
pia,' This makes a veiy good stand. 




HANGING POETFOLIO. 



874 



THE HOVSEnoLD. 



Visiting Card Stand — Tlio frame is made of black Tarnished rattan, 
but may be made of wood in the form of rustic worii. There are two flat 
plates which may be ornamented to suit by painting. The edges of these 
are hung by bead ornaments. Take a small strip of oil-cloth which flta 
around the edges of the respective plates, measure equal distances, sew 
black jet buttons on and string bronze beads, thus constructing the first row. 
Then take gold or amber-colored beads and make a second row; the third 
row of white beads. Stick these around the jet buttons to the oil-cloth. 
The four double twisted rows may be made of different colored beads. 
The ends of these can be sewed on to the oil-cloth, and, after they are se- 
ouiely fastened, cut the oil-cloth which shows from under the ornaments 

and then fasten it to the edgen 
of the plates. 

Bag for Knitting- 
"Work. — In these days ol 
knitting and crocheting, a 
small pocket or bag is con- 
venient to hold the balls of 
wool, silk or cotton, and the 
needles or crochet hooks. 
This knitting-work pocket is 
worn attached to the belt, and 
is made of ecru linen and 
lined with red satin, or any 
other material that one may 
fancy. Cut from each of these 
materials five pieces of the 
following dimensions: Two 
inches wide at the top, not al- 
lowing for seams, one-half 
inch wide at the bottom and 
six inches long. These pieces 
are cut so as to bulge out at 
the sides, and are each four 
inches in width at the widest 
part. Embroider the Mnen in 
any design that you may 
fancy, but it seems desirable 
that this should be in outline stitch, and done with red silk. Join the linen 
pieces so that the seams are on the right side; notch them so that they will 
lie flat, and cover them with red silk braid, cross-stitched with some con- 
trasting tone or color. Join the lining and place inside this, and bind the 
top with the same braid and fasten down in the same manner. Work a red 
silk eyelet hole in one of the side pieces to allow the end of the wool you 
are working with to come through. Close the bottom of the bag with a 
bunch of loops of red satin ribbon, and sew an end of the same ribbon at the 
top of each of the seams, joining them together with a bow of the ribbon, 
in which is sewed quite a large shield pin to fasten it to the dresa 
belt. 

Pin-Cusliion. — A pretty httle pin-cushion in the shape of a bellows can 
be made as foliswe: Firat cut four pieces of cardboard ^visiting or invitation 




VISITrNO CARD STAND. 



LADIES' FANCY WO UK. 



373 




FIG. 1.— WORK BASKET (OPEN). 



«ard8 are the best), to the size required, and the shape af a small bellows; 
caver these four pieces singly with pretty silk or satin, by turning over tho 
edges and lacing them from side to side with a needle and thread to make 
them fit. Then join two pieces together, and sew over the edges neatly; 
Bew a little piece of line 
flannel or merino tilled 
with needles to one 
joined side piece at the 
point; then put the two 
sides together and sew 
them well together at 
the point, leaving space 
enough for a gilt bod- 
kin to pass thi-ough 
and make the real 
point. Put pins in all 
around the edge, add a 
narrow ribbon band 
fastened by a pin at 
the handle end, to keep 
the sides together. 
The inside of the bel- 
lows looks best with 
satin or plain silk, and the outside with brocade. If a small design 
is embroidered or painted on the outside, it has a very beautiful effect. 
A common length of the bellows is three inches from the handle to the point. 

-An octagon-shaped box or basket is used for the founda- 
tion; it is lined 
with quilted blue 
satin, ornamented 
with a small silk 
button at the cor- 
ner of each dia- 
mond. The out- 
side of the basket 
is covered with 
old-gold satin, put 
on in four largo 
puffs; each puff ia 
divided by a band 
of blue velvet em- 
broidered with & 
cross-stitch d e - 
sign; it is edged 
with lace and a 
fine gold cord. 
The lid is covered 
■with velvet, also 

ornamented with lace, and a handle of wire covered with gold cord. In 
Fig. 1 the basket is shown open, and in Fig. 2 closed. Fig. 2 shows plain 
velvet bands, and iu this figured silk ia used instead of the old-gold 
satin. 



"Work Basket- 




no. 2. — ^WOEK BASKET (CLOSED). 



376 



THE HOUSEHOLD, 




FIG. 1. — KNITTED DRESSING SLIPPEK. 



Knitted Dressing ^lipv^v.— Materials required: Pour ounce blue and 

four ounce white 
Berlin wool; four 
plus No. 12 (Walk- 
er's gauge), and a 
pair of cork eolea. 

Commence the 
slipper at the toe 
■with blue wool, 
cast on ten stitches, 
increase by putting 
the wool over the 
pin at beginning of 

each row to make a stitch. Fig. 2 shows the outside of work, and Fig. 3 the 

inside with loops of white wool. When knitting 

with the white wool take it from two balls so aa 

to have two lengths. 
1st Row: Knit plain. 

2d Row: Make one, knit one, * take the dou- 
ble white wool, turn it twice over the pin to form 

a loop of about three-quarters of an inch (see 

design), with the left-hand pin pass the last 

knitted loop over the four loops of white, knit 

two, repeat from * to the end of the row. 

3d Row: Make one at the beginning of the 

row, slip the loops of white wool, knit the blue; ^^^_ 2.-detaii, of fig 1. 

in knitting the blue stitch pass the blue wool 

with which you are knitting round the double white wool; in knitting the 



|fe*;i^f *!:;■ ■^^^*^V'^^^,^fe4% 




fig. 3.— detail of fig. 1. 

next stitch this will draw up the white wool close to the work, and 
so carry it to the other side to be ready for working the next row of loops. 
4th Row: Make one, knit the blue stitches plain, knit the four whit© loops 
ftt the back as one etitch. 



LADIES' FANCY WORK. 



m 



5th Eow: Make one, knit to the end of tho row. Eepeat from second 
row, increasing at the beginning of each row until the work is wide enough 
across the instep. 

Now divide tho stitches for tho sides, casting off ten in the center; with 
the third pin continue to work on the side stitches as before, without in- 
crease or decrease, until you have the length from the instep to the back 
of the heel, then cast off and work the other side in the same way; sew the 
■ two sides together at the back with a needle and wool. 

Now pick up the stitches round the toj) of slipper, on three pins, and 
with a fourth pin and blue wool knit ten rows, cast off, turn this plain piece 
over, and hem it down to the top of inside of slipper to form a roll round 
the edge. Sew the bottom of slipper neatly and firmly to a strong cork sole 
lined with wool. 



represents a stand for cigar 



Stand for Cigar Aslies. — Our engravmi 
ashes. It consists of a bowl with a 
piece of wire running around it, by 
which it is mounted on three sticks, 
which are joined together in the middle. 
The upper ends art fastened to the 
bowl, and the fastening and bowl cov- 
ered by lace or pressed leather, or any 
other material. The stand may be made 
by any young man or woman, of rustic 
work, using for the bowl piece the half 
of a cocoanut-shell, scraped, finished, 
and varnished. It will make a neat, 
unique, and useful ornament. 

The Hungarian Bow. — This is a 
novelty in home decoration, and is used 
instead of a scarf upon chairs and sofas. 
It is formed of a long scarf with em- 
broidered and fringed ends, but plain in 
the middle, and is ai-ranged in a knot 
or bow. This is fastened to the back of 
the chair or sofa, and the ends prettily 
draped over it. Bronze and gold colors are the most used, embroidered in 
tulip design, with shaded red silk and gold thread. The fringe may be of 
gold, or red silk and gold. Handsome Roman scarfs that were bright for 
personal wear, but are now a little " off-style," may be utilized in this way, 
and are as handsome as anything bought at the decorative or art stores. 

Star Matg. — Have four knitting needles; cast on three stitches, on each 
of three needles, then tie like the beginning of a stocking; then knit two 
plain rounds, then widen every stitch all around, then knit one plain round, 
then widen every two stitches all around, then one plain round, then widen 
every three stitches all around, then a plain round. Continue so till you get 
thirteen stitches between. Knit a plain found every time after widening, 
then widen and narrow, and widen again, then knit two plain rounds, then 
widen and narrow, widen and narrow again, then widen, then knit two plain 
rounds. Continue so till the star is complete, adding one more widened 
stitch eyery two rounds. Then bind off. 




STAND FOR CIGAK ASHSS. 



878 



THE noUSEHOLD. 



A Table ScarK_A useful table scurf, and one that is particularly 
pleasing to the eye, because it does not suggest almost endless labor, ia 
made by taking a strip of all wool Java canvas of the proper length for the 
table on which it is to be used. Line it with some stiff cloth and then with 
eilesia. At about three inches from the outer edge sew on two strips of 
black velvet ribbon two inches wide. Through the center work a handsome 
scroll pattern, using bright yellow silk; the velvet stripes may be put on 
perfectly plain, or may be worked in old-fashioned cross-stitch, or in some 
modification of feather stitch. Finish the bottom of the scarf with yellow 
silk balls. This is suitable for the common sitting-room; it is so bright that 
the dust can be shaken from it with ease. 

Baby Basket.— Procure a large brown basket and a small camp-stool. 




BABY BASKET. 

Measure the size round the top of the basket; get that quantity of material; 
measure the depth of the basket, and allow for the scallops to fall over the 
edge. Bind the scallops; fasten it to the edge of the basket; draw it down 
lightly to the bottom in plaits. Cut a round piece of material the shape of 
the bottom of the basket; fasten it round the edge, and finish with a box- 
plaiting of ribbons. Make the cushions and pockets to please the fancy. 
A box-plaiting round the top of basket; also round the scallops. Between 
each scallop piit a bow or cord and tassels of worsted; fasten this on the 
camp-stool, around which put a ruffle of the same material the basket ia 
lined with. 

Neat Mats can be made by cutting a stiff piece of woolen goods into the 
«bape desired, and crocheting an edge or border of fancy-colored yarn 



LADIES' FA 2,^01' WOBK. 



379 



Star Stitcli— Crochet a chain of twenty stitches. Without putting tho 
•wool over first, put the needle into the second chain, thread over and draw 
through, leaving the two loops on the needle; do the same in tho next three 
chain successively, drawing tho wool up longer and having five loops on the 
needle, put wool over and draw through all, and make one chain to hold it *, 
Put needle into the stitch where the five loops are, draw thread through, 
put the needle into the back part of last loop of the star before, draw through, 
put the needle into the next two chain just the same, dra-ndng them up 
longer and thread over, draw through all five loops and make one chain *; 
repeat between the stars. 

Embroidered ciiair CoT-er —Embroidered slips are much used now 
instead of chintz covers for 
chairs. They can be made 
of thin woolen material, or 
of linen. "WTien of wool 
they are embroidered with 
crewels. 

The better way to have 
the covers fit nicely, is to 
lay the material on the 
chair, pin it in place to hold 
it firmly, and lay the plaits 
and seams just where they 
should be, and cut the ma- 
terial then. There are no 
two chairs exactly alike in 
shape, and it will be found 
far more easy to fit them in 
this way. The seams and 
edges are bound with braid 
and the corners are laced 
down with cords. The caps 
for the amis are fastened 
with buttons and button- 
holes. 

Feather Kdged Braid 
Trimming—Fasten the 

thread to »4oop in the braid 
— chain seven stitches, piit 
the needle in the second loop fi-om where you commence, draw the thread 
through the loop and the stitch on the needle, chain four more and fasten in 
the next second loop, then take up three more loops by piitting tho needle 
through each one, and drawing the thread through the loop, and the stitch 
■ on the needle, chain four stitches and fasten as before, chain foiir more and 
fasten, take up eight loops aa tho three were taken, chain two and fasten 
around the last four chain stitches, chain two more and fasten in the second 
loop from the eight taken up stitches, chain two, and fasten aroiind the next 
four chain stitches, chain two, and fasten in second loop, then take up three 
loops, chain two, fasten around the four chain stitches, chain two, fasten in 
second loop, chain two, fasten around the seven stitches, chain four, fasten 
in second loop, doable the braid together from thisi loop, and on the right 




EMBROIDERED CHAIR COVER. 



m 



TBE noVSETlOLTj. 



3ide of the work take up a loop of each piece of the braid, draw the thread 
through these loops, leave the stitch on the needle, and so continue until all 
have been taken up, as far as the loop above the eight taken up stitches, on 
the opposite side of the braid, then draw the thread through two stitches at 
a time until only one stitch remains on the needle, then commence the second. 

scallop same as before. Crochet 
across the top of the completed 
edging, to sew on by. And I think 
it washes and wears better to cro- 
chet a chain of three between each 
loop on the lower edge, except 
those close between the scallops, 
simply drawing the thread through 
these. The needle must be fine 
and straight. 

Ladies' Work-Stand— T h e 

skeleton of the work-stand we have 
illustrated is made of rattan. The 
squares between the rods should 
be covered with green, plaited silk, 
which is drawn together and either 
fastened with a button or a small 
rosette and a flat tassel. The bag, 
for the reception of embroidery or 
other fancy work, is made of green 
silk, drawn together by a green 
I cord, at the end of which is a tassel 
I of the same color. To hide the 
joints of the rods, a scarf of green 
ribbon is put at each juncture. In 
WOEK-STAOT>. ^jjg iQ^gj, paj^ of ^j^g g^and is a pin- 

enshion, which is made in the same style as the filling-in of the squares 
above, and also drawn and held together with a button. 

Mosaic Emtoi'oidery. — Mosaic embroidery is very effective for mantel 
drapes, piano covers, and screens, and is quite easily made. Take ■whatever 
material is chosen for the ground work and sew on to it with some fancy 
stitch odd patterns cut from various colored plushes 




FLORICULTURE. 



Ivy for Picture Frames. — Ivy ia one of tho best plants to have in the 
house, as it bears a large amount of neglect and abuse, and gratefully repays 
good treatment. It is not rare to see a pot of ivy placed where it can be 
trained around picture frames 
or mirrors, and thus border 
them -with living gi-een. A 
good plan is to dispense with 
the pot, or rather, have a sub- 
stitute for it, which is kept out 
of sight. Our illustration 
shows a picture frame wreathed 
with ivy after this method. 
Only a good-sized picture or 
mirror can be treated in this 
way, and as such are usually 
hung so that the top of the 
frame leans forward, the space 
between the frame and the 
wall is available for the re- 
ceptacle for the plant. A pot '.i| 
or pan of zinc, of a wedge f^'^ 
shape, and bize to suit the 
space between the frame and 
the wall, can be readily made 
by any tinsmith. This is to be 
hung against the wall so as to 
be quite concealed by the pic- 
ture, and the ivy tastefully 
trained over the frame. A rus- 
tic frame is better suited to 
this purpose, as it not only 
affords better facilities for at- 
taching the stems to the frame, 
but its style seems better 
adapted to this kind of decora- 
tion than more pretentious 

ones. Still, a gilt fi-amo may be made beautiful in the same way. There ia 
only one precaution to bo used, ^^z.: not to hang such a frame over the fire- 
place, for the combined heat and dust would soon destroy the plant. Let it 
hang so that it may face a north or east window. Don't forget the water; 
the pan holding the plant is out of sight, and, therefore, should bo kept in 
mind. 

Diseases of Room Plants. — The leaves of plants when in a normally 
Wealthy state are generally of a deep green color, but when diaeased they 




ITY FOR PICTUEE FEAMES. 



382 THE iJOUSEnOLB. 

become yellowish or -white. In the majority of cases such a diseased appear- 
ance is produced by an excess of light or a lack of it, too much or too httle 
■water, unsuitable, overrich, or impoverished soil, or lack of drainage. When 
the discoloration first shows itself^and this is generally on the younger shoots 
— the condition of the roots should bo ascertained by turning the plant out 
of the pot. If the roots are healthy and fill the ball, or appear overcrowded, 
the discoloration indicates lack of nutriment, or too little or too much light. 
In the first case it can be remedied by shifting the plant into a larger pot, or 
watering the plant with liquid manure. If excess or lack of light is the 
cause, reference must be had to the character of the plant. Ferns, 
selaginellas, and plants of similar character that naturally gi-ow in shady 
places, become pale or yellowish when grown in bright light, while those 
whose habitat is in open, exjiosed situations, become discolored when not 
having a sufficiency of light. In either case, when grown in pots, plants are 
more liable to become diseased through this cause than when grown in the 
open air. The remedy, of course, is only to shift the position of the plant 
and place it where the light will better suit its nature. 

If the ball is not filled with roots, and they do not appear to be fresh and 
healthy, the discoloration, in all probability, proceeds from excess of moist- 
ure or unsuitable soil. To remedy the first, see that the drainage outlet ia 
kept free and unchoked; if after a Aveek or two this does not affect a change, 
then it is probable that the diseased appearance arises from unsuitable soil. 
Some plants, such as azaleas, camelias, and rhododendrons, in such case 
will not throw out a single rootlet from the old ball into the new soil, but 
gradually die back or make but weakly, spindling shoots. If the discolora- 
tion has been produced by bad drainage, excessive watei'ing, or unsuitable 
soil, and is of such long standing as to cause the roots to decay, or the soil 
has become sour, the proper remedy ia to shako off all the earth from theni 
and wash them by shaking them thoroughly in clean water, cutting off the 
decayed parts with a sharp knife, and replanting into light fresh earth, and 
seeing that the drainage is kej^t free. Eich soil or large pots should not be 
used, the latter should be but httle larger than the diameter of the roots. 
When the roots are well developed the plant may be shifted into a larger pot 
and richer soil. The leaves of plants from warm countries — oranges, for in- 
stance — will sometimes become yellow when exposed to a low temperature, 
especially Avhen accompanied with much moisture; the remedy in this case 
^ °lther to raise the temperature or decrease the amount of water given. 

Sometimes the discoloration is caused by insufficiency of water, which 
causes the roots to shrivel up. It may also proceed from giving too much 
water at one time, and then letting the ball become dry, or by only giving 
enough of water to moisten the surface of the soil for an inch or two, while 
below it may be as dry as powder. Carefulness and watchfulness are the 
only modes of preventing injury to the plants from such causes. TNTien the 
leaves of deciduous plants fall off as their season of rest approaches, they 
should be placed in a lower temperature, and not have as liberal a supply of 
water as when grooving. If evergreen plants, such as we generally grow in 
greenhouses, shed their leaves profusely and suddenly, it indicates that 
they have not light enough, or that the temperature of the room is too high, 
or the atmosphere ia too dry; the proper mode of treatment in such cases ia 
self-apparent. 

Occasionally plants will die off suddenly near the surface of the soil, 
although the roots, leaves and shoots look quite healthy. This ia often 
caused by the collar of the plant — the part where the roots are joined to th© 



. FLORICULTURE. 38S 

■tem— being set too deep into the soil. Watering with very cold water when 
the soil in the pots has been exposed to the sun will also cause them to die 
ofif suddenly. Plants in pots should never have the pots exposed to the full 
blaze of sunshine, especially in the middle of the day. The crowns of her- 
baceous plants that have been kept dry, or comparatively so, during their 
eeason of rest, -(Till rot away if the balls of roots are too liberally supplied 
with water. They should be kept in the shade, and but sparingly suppUed 
with water, and that rather tepid, until they develop a leaf or two. 

Some plants, especially roses, when kept in rooms, are very apt to become 
mildewed, to the ceitain destruction of the leaves and flower buds. As soon 
as it shows itself the leaves should be washed with soap and water, rinsed 
off and flowers of sulphur dusted on with a dredging-box or a pepper-box, 
washing it ofif after it has been on for two or three days. 

The whole art of keeping plants in rooms is to provide an equable, moist 
temperature, light according to the nature of the plants, regular moderate 
watering, good drainage, suitable soil, cleanliness, and an avoidance of all 
Budden checks or shocks to the plant either in temperature or humidity. 
These are always injurious, as they produce disease and render the plant 
liable to the attacks of insects and fungoid growths. 

Cheap and Pretty Hanging Baskets. — The sweet potato, which Is 
basket and contents in one, has, when successful, a vei-y ornamental effect. 
Truth compels us to state that it is not always successful, and a yellow, 
scraggy appearance of foliage will sometimes reward the best-intentioned en- 
deavors; but given ordinarily favorable suiToundiugs, which include heat and 
sunshine, this curious hanging basket thrives and covers a large space with 
bright-hued verdure. A large, sound root should be selected, and the top for 
some distance down is then removed. Next comes the disagreeable process 
of removing the inside — leaving a wall all around, and a thicker one at the 
bottom. Three holes are then bored at equal distances, about half an inch 
from the top; and into these the suspending cords, which unite at the upper 
ends, are fastened. VfTaen filled with water up to the holes, the sweet potato 
basket is completed; and if placed in a sunny window, it should be covered 
with shoots and leaves in a few weeks' time. Some of the sprays can be 
trained upward, and others allowed to droop. The red-skiimed sweet potato 
has a pretty streak of silver in the foliage, and the two varieties on either 
Ride of a window make an agreeable contrast. If preferred, the hollow root 
can be filled with earth or sand instead of water — if with the latter, there 
nhould be two or three small pieces of charcoal at the bottom. A carrot 
treated in the same way sends forth a mass of feathery foliage whose vivid 
green brings a sort of sunshine into the dreariest day; and even a large 
sponge suspended by cords, thoroughly moistened and planted with flax, 
rape-seed, or any low growing verdure, is not to be despised. A very pretty 
basket can be manufactured by taking an ordinary one of wire and fastening 
to it raisiu-stems, or bits of thin wire properly bent, and then dipping the 
•whole into melted sealing-wax of a vermihon color until it is thoroughly 
coated. Brushing it over mth the mixture would take less material. Tha 
effect of theses coralized sprays, glowing through delicate green vines, ia 
really beautiful. Eveiy one cannot succeed with a basket of growing plants, 
but almost any one can succeed with ivy; and a very ornamental hanging 
basket that requires little care can be made in the following way: Almost 
any kind of basket will answer, and there should be a good collection of 
ftuturoa leaves varnished and prepared in sprays. Six or eight twro oiwce 



8M 



THE nOJJBEHOLJ). 



bottles ehould be filled with water, and have one or two well-grown epray8 
of ivy in each, placed in wads of cotton to keep them upright, the leaves ar- 
ranged in between and around the edge of the basket. The ivy will grow, 
and can be trained to run up the cords, as well as to hang over the sides; 
the only care required is to fill up the bottles as the water evaporates, and 
to keep the leaves free from dust. 

Window Gardening. — What adds more to the cheerfulness of the 
dome during the lonely, dreary days of winter, than flowers ? All can have 




FIG, 1. — DOUBLE WINDOW WITH PLANT SHELF. 

them, the poor as well as the rich, if a little care and forethought is uso^ 
in growing and arranging them. 

The preparatory work consists in transplanting and fairly starting ijj 
small pots, in August or September, the Madeira vine, creeping Charlie, 
cypress vine, balloon vine, the common EngUsh, the German, or the Kenil- 
worth ivy, or morning glory, flowering bean, or sweet-scented pea, or, if you 
are disposed to be more aristocratic, smilax, lophiospermum, or, if the win- 
dow is large aad the foliage is not deemed too rank, the clematis or the 



FLORICULTURE. 



385 



paBsion vine. Nearly all of these, if thus started, -will grow finely and festoon 
your -windows in a few weeks; some of them have line blossoms, which will 
add to the beauty of their foliage. Next, for the plants to make a display in 
your windows. What these shall be, and how they shall be arranged, de- 
pends very much upon the size, shape and character of your windows. If 
you have a bay or oidel window, either large or small, you can make it the 
most attractive feature of your room at a very small expense. First place 
your pots with climb-viaes at the sides on low brackets, and the vines to 
make a beautiful frame for your windows. If the window is a deep bay, 
other and more delicate vines may be placed between the side windows and 
the main one — such as smilax, the Keuilworth ivy, or the cypress Vine — and 
trained over the ceiling of the bay. At the base of the windows have a 
«helf six or eight inches wide (eight is best), supported by the ordinary 




no. 2. — PRETTY ABRANGEMENT FOB SITTING-ROOM WINDOWS. 

metal brackets, and in front tack the expanding framework (such as is shown 
in Fig. 1), which is now to be found for sale by the yard very cheap at all 
the flower stores— the black walnut is the prettiest, though the holly wood 
is very neat; stretch it to its full extent before tacking it on. Then selecting 
your hardiest and most freely-blooming plants— geraniums, pelargoniums, 
rose geraniums, all from slips potted in July or August, periwinkles, 
fuchsias, heliotropes, bouvardias, cuphias, and newly-potted slips of ver- 
bena, with such other beautiful small plants as you may find desirable — 
place each pot in one about three sizes larger, which is partially filled with 
fine earth, and the space between loosely packed with moss. Set these on 
your shelf, arranging them with reference to complementary colors; put in 
the center where the main partition between the two divisions of the central 
window is, a good and shapely ardisia, which, if it has been plunged during 



866 



TEE HOUSEHOLD. 



the summer, ■will, by this time, be loaded with its beautiful berries, whleh 

are in November just beginning to turn to a beautiful scarlet. These ber- 
ries \vill hang on till June; and, while the plant is of very moderate price, it 
has no superior as an ornamental shrub. In the corners put callas, which 
should have been heeled or turned over to rest, as early as July or August 
1st. Their position should be partially shaded, and where they will not have 
too much heat; when they begin to bud, they should have a plenty of warm, 
almost hot, water furnished them daily. They, too, should be placed in a 




FIG. 3. — BAT WINDOW WITH PLANT PLATFOEM. 

pot surrounded by a large pot, and the interstices filled in with moss. Across 
the center of the windows place other shelves with pots of smaller flowers, 
and, among the rest, creeping plants, such as verbenas, sweet alyssum, 
nemaphila lobelia, mesembryanthemum, etc., etc. On a table in the center, 
if you can have a neat box, zinc-lined, you can set in pots, hyacinths, 
amaryllis, cyclamens, iris, and the finest sorts of crocus, and, packing mosa 
around them, keep them moist. From the ceiling of the bay may be suspended 
hanging baskets, taking the precaiition to keep them moist. The outlay for 
all this is very little, and if yott are ingenious you can do it all yourselfl 



FLOBIOTILTUBE. 



387 



But everybody has not bay windows, or oven double windows. For these 
tinfortuuates, among whom we aro sorry to bo obliged to reckon ourselves, 
the simpler arrangement indicated in Fig. 2 is almost as effective. A shelf 
at the foot of each window supported on brackets, and, if preferred, protected 
by the expanding framework, will give room for four or six pots at each 
window, while the vines can be trained around the windows, as in the other 
case. A swinging bracket largo enough for two pots can be attached to the 
outer side of the framework of each window, midway of its height, and a 
rustic basket attached to a hook projecting from the top of the window 
frame, if desired. On a table or slab between the windows a small jardiniere, 
oontaining an ardisia, or Tahiti orange, can be placed. In the selection of 
cUmbers for trimming the windows, avoid the climbing fern, which is offered 
80 abundantly at all the flower stores. It caonot be made to live in parlors, 




FIG. 4. — DEEP BAY WINDOW WITH BRACKETS. 



and in spite of all the care which may be taken with it will soon become dry 
and unsightly. The ivies, Madeira vine and cypress vine are the best, 
thoiigh several other climbers are pretty. The blossoms of the Madeira 
vine, which will come out if it is well cared for in February or March, are 
very fragrant, and will fill the parlors with their delicate perfume. 

The wall pockets so plenty in these days of scroll sawing, can be very 
easily adapted to the purpose of plant cultivation, and add greatly to the 
beauty of these simple decorations. 

How to Kill Insects on Plants. — Slugs are occasionally seen eatmp 
large holes or notches in the leaves of all succulents and begonias. Thej 
usually feed at night. Cut potatoes, turnips, or some other fleshy vegetable 
in halves, and place conveniently near the plants. The slugs Avill gather 



888 THE nOUSEUOLB. 

upon tho vegetable, and are easily clestroyed. The white worm which 
infests, occasionally, all soils where plants are kept in pots, may bo removed 
as follows: Sprinkle lime water over the soil, or sprinkle a little slacked 
lime on tho earth, and in tho saucer of the pot. Lime water may be easily 
made by slacking a large piece of hme in a pail of cold water, letting thia 
JBettle, and theu bottle the clear water for use. Give each pot a tablespoon- 
ful twice a week. 

To destroy the little bugs on the oleander, take a piece of lime the size of 
a hen's egg, and dissolve it in about two quarts of water. Wash the stock 
and branches with this water. 

To destroy plant lice, take three and a half ounces of quassia chips, add 
five drachms Stavesacre seed in powder, jjlace in seven pints of water, and 
boil down to five pints. When cold, the strained liquid is ready for use, 
either by means of a watering-pot or a syringe. 

Hot alum water will destroy red and black ants, cockroaches, spiders and 
chintzbugs. Take two pounds, of alum and dissolve it in three or four 
quarts of boiling water. Let it stand On the fire until the alum is all melted, 
then ajoply it with a brush (while nearly boiling hot) to the places Ire- 
quented by these insects. 

Any choice plants may be preserved from the ravages of slugs by placing 
a few pieces of garlic near them. No slugs will approach the smell of garlic. 

Greenhouse slugs often become a nuisance in the greenhouse. A certain 
remedy is to sprinkle salt freely along the edges of the bench or table, the 
crossing of which is sure death to the slug. 

Another way of destroying insects on tlowers is to water the plants with 
a decoction of tobacco, which quickly destroys. Independently of the re- 
moval of the insects, tobacco-water is considered by many persons to improve 
the verdure of the plant. Prepare it as follows: Take one pound of roll 
tobacco and pour over it three pints of water, nearly boiling. Let it stand 
for some hours before it is used. 

Kerosene oil may be used for destroying insects on plants by taking a 
tablespoonful of oil and mixing it with half a cup of milk, and then diluting 
the mixture with two gallons of water. Apply the hquid with a syringe, and 
afterward rinse with clear water. This substance is death to plant insects, 
and we have never heard of its injuring the most delicate plants when used 
as here directed. 

The following is recommended as a means of destroying the rose slug: 
Add a teaspoonful of powdered white hellebore to two gallons of boiling 
water. Apply when cold, in a fine spray, bending the tops over so as to 
reach the under surface of the leaves. One application is usually suflScient. 
This is a good way to treat the currant worm. 

The red spider may be banished from plants by the simple process of 
cutting otf the infected leaf. A leaf once attacked soon decays and falls off; 
but then the animals remove to another. By carefully pursuing this ampu- 
tation plants will become remarkably healthy. 

A new method for the getting rid of worms which destroy the house 
plants is a number of sulphur matches placed in the flower pots with their 
heads down. The experiment has been tried with success. 

Ammonia, for Plants. — If tht; house plants become pale and sickly, a 
dose of ammonia, a few drops in the water you water them with, will revive 
them like magic. It is the concentrated essence of fertilizers, and acta upon 
plant life as tonics and eea air upon human iayalids. 



Ornamental Wardian Case. — The sides of the box are of mahogany, 
1 1-4 inch in thickneai, and the bottom of deal, 1 1-2 inch thick, well framed 
and dovetailed together, and strengthened with brass bands, and with two 
cross-bars beneath. The upper edge of the box is furnished with a groove 
for the reception of the glass roof, and this groove is lined with brass, to 




OKNAMENTAL WAEDIAN CASE. 



prevent th.e wood from rotting. The roof is composed of brass, and glazed 
with the very best flattened crown glass. The brass astragals are grooved 
for the reception of the glass, and not rebated, as in ordinary glazing. Eyed 
studs are cast on the inner side of the ridge astragal, about half an inch in 
length, for the purpose of suspending small orchids or ferns from the roof. 
The inside of the box is lined with zinc, and at one of the comers an aperture 
is formed into which a copper tube, two inches long, is inserted, and fur- 



see THE noTTSEnoLB. 

cished -witb a cock for Trithdrawiug any superfluous ■water that may at aay 
timo accumulate within the box. One of the psncs is made to take out — this 
provision is necessary for the occaHional arrangement and airing of the 
plants, but the general arrangement is made by lilting the top off entirely. 

Rose Culture. — Slluafion. — A place apart from other flowers should be 
assigned to them, if ijossible, sheltered from high winds, but open and not 
surrounded by trees, as closeness is very apt to generate mildew; where 
they cannot have a place to themselves, any part of the garden best fulfilling 
these conditions will answer. 

Soil.— A most important item in their successful culture. That in which 
they especially delight is a rich, imctious loam, that feels greasy when 
pressed between the fingers. Where this is not to be had the soil must be 
improved; if light, by the addition of loam, or even clay, well worked in; 
where heavy, good drainage and the addition of coal ashes in small quanti- 
ties will help it, but in such places draining is more important. 

Flanliiig.— Mix some loam and well-rotted manure together, open a good 
sized hole, and fill it with fresh soil; plant firmly. Shorten any very long 
shoots, and, if exposed to winds, secure the plant by short stakes. 

Manuring. — Roses are strong feeders, and will take almost any amount of 
manure; pig manure is the best, except in hot soils, when cow manure is 
preferable; stable manure is generally available and good. Exhibitors gen- 
erally apply a toiJ-dressing in spring, but it does not improve the appearance 
of the beds; a good top-dressing may be laid on the beds in autumn, and be 
dug in in the siDring. 

Watering. — When coming into bloom, if the weather be dry, give a good 
drenching twice or three times a week; continue after blooming to prevent 
mildew. If greater size be required, liquid manure may be used. Syringe 
daily for green fly. 

Pruning.— This may be done any time after the beginning of March, ac- 
cording to the season. Cut out all wood over two years old and all weakly 
shoots. Weak-growing kinds should be pruned hard — that is, down to three 
or four eyes; stronger growing kinds may be left longer. Cut to an eye that 
points outward, so as to keep the inside of the plant open. Teas and 
noisettes require less cutting back; the tops should be shortened and the 
weak shoots cut out, and they should not be pruned until May. Use a shai'-p 
knife. 

Rustic Hanging Basket. — The accompanying drawing represents a 
rustic hanging basket that any p)erson can make with the common house 
tools, axe, saw, knife, hammer and a few brads. First, procure from the 
woods two or three sticks of iron wood, or sitch as may suit the fancy. They 
should be selected, small trees, about three inches in diameter. After 
selecting the tree, cut it up into pieces fourteen or fifteen inches in length; 
then, taking one of these round sticks, split off the four sides; this, if it splits 
well, will give eight pieces from two sticks, the number reqtiired to make 
the basket. The sticks, or pieces, should be narrower and thinner at one 
end than the other, as shown in the cut, and rounded at each end. TheK 
procure a block or piece of inch board, and cut out a circular piece about 
three inches in diameter, slanting it a little so that the pieces will have the 
taper towards the bottom when tacked to the block. This gives the basket 
s little flare. They should fit close together at the point where the block is, 
And may be a, little open, nearer the top, in order to fill between with moss. 



PLOiilCULTUHS. Sdl 

Now, the pieces being nailed to the block with brads, begin to ornament it 
"With grape-vines and roots. Roots are tacked to the under side of the block, 
to fill it all lip, and at the lower points of the pieces where they match, al- 
ways keeping in view one thing — to preserve the tapering form and matching 
the roots in eveiy way that, will bring them all towards the center with uni- 
formity. Next put vines on the 
Bides, as per engraving, bring- 
ing two together over the places 
where the sticks match; also, 
weave in around the top two 
Tines, in and out alternately, 
and, fastening with brads, tack 
roots on the pieces between the 
ornamental work. 

Next put on a handle of 
grape-vine, giving it a single 
knot; tie at the top to form a 
loop, interweaving it with a 
smaller vine; then give the 
basket a coat of varnish and put 
in suitable plants. Keep the 
basket partially in the shade, 
and occasionally dip it in a bar- 
rel of rain water. 

To Prepare Plants for 
Winter. — It is a great mistake 
to delay the work of prepara- 
tion for winter until it is sug- 
gested by cool nights or a warn- 
ing given by blighting frosts. 
When a plant has been taken 
from a pot and planted in open 
ground it usually outgrows its 
former place, and is too large 
for any vessel of convenient 
eize. The root should be cut 
away to a considerable extent 
and likewise the top or foliage 
must be correspondingly re- 
duced. Novices often fail at 
this point, for they dislike to 
part with any of the new growth, 
and set the plant in a pot un- 
pruned, and expect what is not 
possible, that it will flourish. 

Cut back root system and branch system equally is the rule. Plants when 
thus transplanted need to be favored by being kept in the shade and shel- 
tered from the drying winds until they have made a good start in the pots. 
Many of the house plants are kept in their pots during the summer and will 
aeed repotting, or the pot washed and the surface soil replaced by fresh, 
rich earth. A larger pot is needed by those plants whose roots have formed 
ft mat along the inner surface. The ball of earth can be examined quickly 




RUSTIC HANUiXG BASKEf. 



S92 THE EOtSEHOLD. 

by spreading the left hand on the vessel— the stem passing between the 
fingers, and with the other hand on the bottom invert the pot and give the 
edge a downward tap against some object. If this does not succeed, pour 
some water ai'ound the edge, and after a short time repeat the operation. 
All old pots should be clean, and if the new ones are used soak them in 
water until the pores are filled. A piece of broken vessel is placed over the 
bottom hole before filling in the potting earth. All the necessary pots, soil, 
etc., should be abandoned now, thai they may be at hand when needed at 
any time during the winter. 

Selection of House Plants. — Select fresh, healthy plants for winter cul- 
ture, for they will repay all the labor you bestow upon them by bright flow- 
ers. The old geraniums, heliotropes, fuchsias, etc., which have flowered all 
summer, will be of no value for window gardening, while young plants will 
soon be covered with buds and flowers. Small i:)lauts in small pots are far 
more desirable for house. culture than large plants in such cumbrous pots 
that it requires a man's strength to move them. 

There are several winter-flowering fuchsias which will continue to bloom 
from October until May, in beautiful luxuriance, if you will only give them 
a spoonful of " Soluble Pacific Guano " once in two or three weeks, or give 
it in a liquid form by dissolving a tablespoouful of it in three quarts of hot 
water. It will also destroy the whitp worms which are so apt to infest the 
soil of plants that have not been-repotted freqiiently. At least it proved an 
antidote with me last season. But if it does not exterminate them, take a 
piece of unslacked lime as large as a man's fist, and slack it in hot water in 
an old pail, and when the lime has sunk to the bottom, water the plants with 
it, an?l it will make their foliage luxuriant and destroy worms of all kinds. 
The lime can be used over several times. 

Tea roses, if well treated, make lovely plants for winter. Purchase well- 
rooted plants of Bon Silene, Snfrano, BlUg, and other varieties, and put them 
close to the glass and stimulate weekly with weak liquid fertilizers; or a 
Jacqueminot rose which bloomed in the summer may be taken up and potted 
in an eight-inch pot, with the richest compost made friable with sand or 
sharp grits, cut back all the old wood and jduU ofl" every leaf and place it in 
a frost-proo£ windo-^v, but where the sun shines in well, and you can force aa 
handsome rose-buds as the florists. 

For a small amount of money a collection of wintsr-flowering plants can 
be procured; and though they will neither feed nor clothe the "body, yet 
they will minister to the needs of the soul, which sometimes hungers, thirsts, 
and shivers, while the body is luxuriously fed, and clothed iu fine raiment. 

Stoil fbr Plants. — Knowing that nearly every lady in the city finds it 
. hard to get manure of the right quality for her -plants, I thought this sug- 
gestion might be of some use to them. Gather up the fallen leaves and 
put them in an old box, or in some obscure corner where they vnll not have 
to be removed. After getting all you want, pile them in as close quarters as 
possible, then throw on them all of your dish-water, wash-water, or any 
water that will help to make them rot. Every week or two take a stick an(J 
turn the leaves over, and keep on doing this until they are all rotten, which 
they will be in a short time, and you will have as good a manure "as any 
florist could want. If you could get the droppings from a cow and put them, 
in an old dish and pour water on thenl; let it stand for a day or two; then 
take the liquid and pour it around the roots of the plants it will give it » 



FLOniOtTLTFRS. 893 

dark green color and make it grow very fast; but in putting the last named 
on the roofs do not lot, any get on the leaves. As nearly every lady has 
some plant which they cannot pot, from its large size, they would be very 
glad to know of some way in which they can enrich the soil without going to 
the trouble of taking the plant out of the pot. By putting the Uquid on 
every month it will make the soil nearly as rich and do the plant as much 
good as if they had put it in rich soil. Fine charcoal is excellent to mix with 
the soil when potting plants, or to sprinkle on the surface of the soil of those 
already potted. It stimulates the .growth of the plants and deepens the 
colors. Iron filings from a blacksmith or machine sh©p worked into the soil 
for plants, will add greatly also to the rich and bright color of the flowers. 

Sinilax for a Cui-tain—Last season, writes a lady, I slipped some smi- 
lax out of a small pot into a box which I set on a slielf that was on the out- 
side of a south window. This shelf was eight inches below the top of the 
window-sill. The box was six inches deep, and so was a little lower than 
the sill. With a red-hot poker I burned a row of holes around the sides of 
the box, and filled it with a hght, rich soil. When the plant was fully es- 
tablished and had sent up nice thrifty sprouts, I drove nine small nails along 
the top of the window-pane^ and slipped on to them the looped-up ends of a 
fine cord; the other ends of the cord were tied each to a nail which was 
stuck in the box by the sprout it was intended to support. The' vines grew 
rapidly, and in a few weeks' time had reached the top of the window;, a week 
or two more, and the ends were drooping down from the top, thus forming a 
graceful valance to my beautiful curtaiu?— a curtain far more beautiful than 
any made by mortal hand could ever be. In October, when the nights were 
growing frosty, I slipped the looped ends of the cords that supported the 
vines off the nails, and placed the box with the vine on a stand on the inside 
of the window and slipped the loops over naUs, and so, without any trouble 
at all, had my window adorned with this lovely vine until Christmas. Thia 
vine so aiiily light, and so graceful, is peculiarly appropriate for the adorn- 
ment of thin evening dresses, and as lovely for the hair. 

Hot-AVater Cure for Sicltly Pls»iits._M. Willermoz some time since 
stated that plants in pots may be restored to health by means of hot water; 
ill-health he maintains, ensues from acid substances in the soil, which, be- 
ing absorbed by the roots, act as poison. The small roots wither and cease . 
to act, and the upper and younger shoots consequently turn yellow, or be- 
come spotted, indicative of their morbid state. In such cases the usual 
remedy is to transplant into fresh soil, in clean pots %vith good drainage, and 
this often with the best results. But his experience of several years has 
proved the unfailing efficacy of the simpler treatment, which consists in 
•watering abundantly with hot water at a temperature of 1,45 degrees Fahr., 
having previously stirred the soil of the pots so far as may be done without 
injury to the roots. Water is then given until it runs freely from the pots. 
In his experiments, the water at first came out clear; afterwards it was sen- 
sibly tinged with brown, and gave an appreciable acid reaction. After this 
thorough washing, the pots were kept warm, and the plants very soon made 
now roots, immediately followed by vigorous growth. 

Goldeu-Leaved Horseshoe Geraninm._If those whohave the golden- 
leaved horseshoe geraniums will put them in the brightest sunlight, the 
colors will be brought out 80 that the plant will be as beautiful as ifit were 
covered with blossoms. 



§d4 



The nousEnoLD. 



The Mad System of Slipping Plants. — The following interesting 

article wo find in the Bahyhnnd Magazine: A child of five years can cut ofl 
a Blip from a geranium, verbena, heliotrope, carnation, fuchsia, or even a 

rosebush, taking care that the 
slip is made from the young 
or green shoot; and in a plate 
or saucer filled with wet sand 
it ■ff'ill root just as quickly and 
as well as if jDut in by the 
hands of a gardener — provided 
care is taken that the sand in 
the saiicer is kept wet by add- 
ing a little water to it each day 
until the slips show the small 
roots. The slip should be cut 
in the way shown in the draw- 
ing, taking it off either between 
or below the joints. The sau- 
cer holding the slips should be 
placed in some sunny window 
\vhere it is warm enough for a little child. Nearly 
all kmds of slips can be rooted at any time of the 
year, but some, such as the coleus, salvias, and 
various plants called "warm-blooded," had bet- 
ter not be slipped until the warm weather comea 
m May 

The slips will begin to show the little roots in 
from two to three weeks after being put in the 
saucers. They should then be potted in little 
pots about two inches deep, which the gardeners 
call thumb-pots. The slips should be potted ia 
rich, soft mold, which can be procured from any 
florist. Good garden earth wUl also do, only it 
must not be wet and sticky. If it can only be got in a very wet condition, 
dry stove-ashes may be mixed with it. 

When the slips are to be potted, first fill the little flower-pot full of earth, 
then with the fore-finger make a hole in the center big enough to put the 
roots in. Gently press the earth 
all around the roots, making it 
level and smooth on the top; 
then with a watering-pot sprinkle 
slightly the slips, now plants. 
Every other day they will require 
watering until they begin to put 
little white roots to the edge of 
the pot, which can be seen by 
giving the pot a tap on the table, 
and turning the contents out just 
like jelly from a glass. After 
the soil in the little pots gets filled with roots, which will be in four or five 
weeks from the time the slips were placed in them, it will be well to trans- 
plant into pots three or fcur inches deep. By May the sUps that were put 
W the Baucera to root in February or March will have made plants large 





FLOmcULTUIiU. 89S 

enough to set out In the open garden, and by midsummer will be fine 
bushea covered with bloaaoms. 

Fuclisias. — Fuchsias, after being exhausted with blooming, ahould have 
the terminal shoots all chpped off, and be repotted in a soil compoaed of leaf 
mold. In a few weeks new shoots full of flower buda will atai't all over, 
growing rapidly. 

Rustic Flo-»ver Stand. — A very simple an* graceful arrangement for 
flowers requiring no more space than the tiny violet or crocus, or some 




EUSTIC FLOWER STAND. 

bright blossoming dwarf plant. A box frame, -with four " posts " to sup- 
port the roof, is all the foundation required. The rest is made of neatly 
cut pieces of sh-aw, braided with three rows of red-stained willow or 
cane. The pretty flower pavilion is ornamented with wheat sheafs and 
grasses. Bright colored autumn leaves, pressed and varnished, would look 
charming mingled with grasses. Thev can be fastened about the frame 
with wire 

Tlie Verbena. — The verbena is one of our most popular bedding plants, 
and is also used by many persons as a window plant, though for this pur- 
pow it is not generally recommended, as it does not do well in an atmoB* 



398 THE HOUSEUOLD. 

phere warmer than 50 degrees or 55 degrees, and must have plenty of sun* 
light, two requisites wliich but few persons can command. In the conserva- 
tory they should be given a top shelf, kc'pt moderately dry and nevar 
watered in the morning, or when the sun would be likely to shine npon 
them before the foliage is dry, as it causes mildew; give fresh air whenever 
it is practicable to do so, and keep the plants stout and bushy by pLaching 
back stray branches. A soil composed of two parts loam, two parts well- 
rotted manure and one p^rt sand suits them best. Keep the Surface soil 
loose and poroiis, to allow air to reach the roots, and provide good drainage. 
If^-een fly appears fumigate with tobacco. To perpetuate the verbena use 
small -ciittinga taken from fresh growth instead of layers or old roots. The 
best way is to start the plants from seeds in the spring. By this means the 
plants do not bloom quite so early, bvit they are more hai'dy and vigorous, 
and flower more ju'ofusely than those grown from cuttings. Seedling plants 
are always the most satisfactory for bedding, iind the only fault that can bo 
found with them is, that the colors do not always come true from seeds. 

Preser\'ing Autitinn Leaves — Autumn leaves are used in varioua 
methods, the most popular being, perhaps, to dry them flatly and carefully, 
and take great care to jDreserve their stalks. Wheh thoroughly dry they are 
varnished, which gives them a jjretty gloss and also acts as a preservative to 
them from all insects and moths. After this they are carefully laid aside 
for the decoration of the winter dinner table, and may be most safely pre- 
served in a tin box with a well fitting cover. Grasses added to them are 
very effective, and when dry they may be dyed. They niay be also frosted 
when dry, by dipping each stalk into a solution of alum and lea\ung them to 
dry upright. With the grasses and leaves may be used the dried everlast- 
ing flowers and the prepared moss, but I must warn my readers that no httle 
taste is needed in their arrangement to avoid the least heaviness of eflect. I 
have found that glass vases and stands are the most effective for their ar- 
rangement, as the transparency of these increases the wished-for likeness 
and grace. Another way of using the dried leaves is for the ornamentation 
ef tables, blotting l^ooks, or Idoxcs. Old cigar boxes, when painted black, 
are very favorite articles for decoration, but now we know the value of var- 
nished unpainted wood, I fancy that many people will prefer the eftect of the 
cigar boxes unpainted, with the unvarnished leaves gummed on, and the box 
and leaves varnished afterward. If, however, a black ground b^ especially 
desired, use "Brunswick black" to stain'the wood, or "Brunswick black" 
and turpentine mixed to make a rich looking brown grounding. Then gum 
on the leaves in a central group, being careful to cut away all the under 
parts of the -leaves, which will be hidden by others above, as too many 
thicknesses of leaf will make an uneven surface, and give an ugly appear- 
ance to the work when finished. 

Tlie Tuberose. — Because many farmers' wives cherish the belief that 
Bome wonderful skill attends the cultivation of this plant, they deny them- 
selves the pleasure of its possession. The bulbs must be lifted before there 
is any danger from frost, and spread in a warm, sunny place to thoroughly 
dry. If they become chilled in any way, either before being lifted or during 
the winter, their value is destroyed. But if kept in a warm closet, they will 
repay for all the "trouble by their spikes of beautifully pure and fragranir 
J)lossoms. • 

Tuberoses are reproduced very rapidly. Therefore, after a start has 



FLOBIC(TLTVRE. 



•397 



once been made ■with a colloction of bulbs of one, two and three years' 
growth, the owner can contmue to set the same, and there will be no trouble 
in having all that are desired. 

There is no difficulty about the planting and cultivation. They will do 
well on any soil that will produce a good crop of corn. The soil should be 
made mellow, so as to be easily worked, and the bulbs set at such distance 
apart as the extent of surface will allow, and covered with the soil. All 
the cultivation that is necessary is to keep the soil mellow and free from 
weeds. 

If desired for early blooming the bulbs may be set in boxes the latter 
part of the winter, and kept 
watered, and in a warm 
room. They will then come 
to flowering earlier than if 
not set in the ground until 
all danger from frost is past. 

Let every farmer's wife 
and daughter cultivate a 
few of these plants that so 
beautify and adorn the 
home. 

A Miniature Green 
House. — This is a conveui- _^ 
ent and ornamental ap 
paratus for growing flowe r- 
ing house plants, or foi 
starting cuttings or seeds 
early ui the season that are 
afterwards to be transplant- 
ed to open ground. B B is 
a large earthen vessel 01 
pot, in the center of which, 
at the bottom, the small pot, 
A, is inverted. The space 
G G aroiind this is tilled 
with drainage material. On 
the top of this pot a smaller 
one, C, of porous earthen, 
and having straight sides, is 
set, and the space around 
this, D D and E E, is filled 

with mold and sand in which two circles of plants may be set. The pot, C, 
is filled with water, which percolates through the porous sides and keeps 
the mold moist enough for purposes of vegetation. Over all the bell glass, 
r, is placed. If the bell glass and large pot cannot be obtained conveniently, 
the same piinciples can be nearly carried out by constructing a square box 
of wood and framing panes of glass for the cover. 

Novel Method of Snricliiing Plain*.— A French writer recommenda 
a novel mode of enriching and promotinj \ the growth, especially of gera- 
niums. Namely: "Watering the plants with a solution of 150 graiaa of glua 
in about two gallana of water. 




398 THE nOUSEIIOLB. 

A Beautiful Ba»jket Plant. — The finest lianging baskets we have evey 
seen, have been of single plants of the ivy-leaved geranium. The richnesB 
and elegance of the foliage, and the drooi^ing or trailing habit of this plant 
are qualifications it possesses, rendering it eminently serviceable for baskets 
and vases. One plaut is enough for a basket, but except in rare cases, it 
will require more time than is afforded the first season to show in its best 
condition. The plant is easily kept over winter, and the second season, if 
attention is given by the use of manure-water to sustain it, the growth will 
be exuberant. There are now so many varieties of this plant, that one has 
the opportunity to indulge his taste in selection. There are golden yellow- 
leaved ones, bronze, green with white margin, and one, L'Elegante, that has 
its green leaves margined with white that is tinged and streaked with pink. 
The colors of the flowers are different with each variety; there are scarlet, 
and crimson, and rose, and pink and white; again, there are single and 
double flowers. One of the best varieties for a hanging basket, on account 
of its fine foliage and free growth, is the double-flowered sort, Kcenig Albert, 
having mauve or puiplish lilac-colored flowers. The double flowers last 
much longer than the single ones, and this adds much to the value of the 
plant. For large baskets, where the best effect is desired in a short time, 
several of these plants of different kinds could be used for the margin, with 
other plants in the center 

Growing House Plants in Moss. — In one of the Swiss villages nearly 
all the inhabitants are engaged in watch making. They work in largo rooms, 
which, being abundantly lighted and well warmed, allow the workmen to 
cultivate plants that, on account of the uncertainty and rigor of the climate, 
cannot be grown in the open air. The president of one of the local horti- 
cultural societies in Switzerland gives an account of tine great success with 
which plants are cultivated in moss in these watch factories. One great ad-^ 
vantage in the use of moss is the , readiness with which plants may be 
gi'ouped in lai'ge vases and boxes. In France a " fertilized moss " is sold, 
but ordinary moss, with occasional application of liquid fertiUzers. will 
answer as well. Ordinary sphagnum, or peat moss, such as is used by 
florists in packing, may be employed, but the writer prefers the moss which 
grows in sheets upon rocks, and around the trunks of trees at their base. 
Wire baskets lined with this moss are used, as are jardinieres of metal, glazed 
pottery, etc., taldng care to provide sufficient drainage. The Jiquid fer- 
tilizer used on these house plants should be without unpleasant odor; weak 
guano water, solutions of nitrate of soda, or sulphate of ammonia may be 
employed, and very fine flour of bone may be mixed with the moss. 

Dutch Honeysuckle in the House. — An English writer gives the fol- 
lowing, which suggests a way in which hardy wood-climbers might be made 
available for window decoration in winter or early spring: 

" Some years ago, as I was passing through a room used only occa- 
sionally, I perceived an odor of fresh flowers that surprised me, as none 
were ever kept there. On raising the curtain of the east window, I saw that 
a branch of Dutch honeysuckle had found its way between the two sashes at 
one corner, wliile growing in the summer, and had extended itself quite 
across the window; and on the branch inside there were three or four clus- 
ters of well-developed flowers, with the usual accompaniment of leaves, 
while on the main bush outside there was not a leaf to be seen. The flowere 
inside were just as beautiful and fragrant as if tiiey had waited until the 



FLORICULTURE. 




MEGABRHIZA CALIFOENICA. — FIG. 1. 



natural time of blooming. Since then I have tried the experiment purposely, 

and always with the same good result." A heavy covering of the ground 

over the roots of the plants 

■with leaves, and sufficient 

protection of the stem outside, 

would allow this method to 

be practiced in quite severe 

chmates. 

Some New Plants Of- 
fered l>y German Florists. 

— Among the new plants of- 
fered by German florists, we 
take occasion to note the fol- 
lowing: 

Megarrhiza Californica, 
Fig. 1, is a new and very rapid 
growing member of tho Cu- 
curbitaceas family, of the 
same elegant habit and haud- 
Bome appearance as Pilogyne 
euaris, but of much larger di- 
mensions, the stems often at- 
taining a length of twenty to 
thirty feet in one season. 

The beautiful, glossy, silvery leaves, about three to six inches in diameter, 
bear short scattered hairs, the small white sterile flowers appearing in 

slender racemes, while the 
fertUo ones grow singly, and 
are somewhat larger; the ob- 
long shaped fruits, about two 
inches long, are densely cov- 
ered with stout, pungent 
spines, similar to those of the 
Cucurbitaceaa introduced up 
to the present time, being of 
about the same size and form 
as a broad bean, and ger- 
minating as easily and surely 
as pumpluu seeds. The plant 
becomes fully developed when 
gi'own as an annual, but it can 
also be cultivated as a peren- 
nial, as it produces long and 
large tuberous roots. 

Bromus Patulns Nanus, 
Fig. 2, is quite a new form of 
this very valuable ornamental 
grass, differing from the 
original species, not only in its 
lower growth, but far more in its much more graceful, thinner and shorter 
panicles. By comparing a panicle of Bromus patulus with the one shown in 
natural size in the figure, the superiority of the above-named sort may 




BBOMUS PATULUS NANUS.— FIG. 2. 



400 



THE HOUSE HOLD. 



easily bo noticed. This variety has already been cultivated for several 

years, and has proved perfectly truo from seed. It represents a valuable 

addition to the assortment of ornamental grasses grown on an extensive 

scale for bleaching purposes or 
dry grass bouquets. 

Rhynchocarpa Glomerata, 
Fig. 3, is a charming and inter- 
esting climbing member of the 
same family, from Brazil, grow- 
ing twelve to fifteen feet in 
height. Its branching habit and 
thickly-set, abundant foliage 
make it esisecially well adapted 
for covering arbors and fences, 
or for garnishing festoons. The 
whitish flowers, as is mostly the 
case in this tribe of jjlants, are 
not very conspicuous, but the 
deeply-cut, five-lobed leaves, 
together with the numerous 
hazle-nut-like fruits appearing 
in dense clusters, render this 
plant one of the most attractive 
climbers for outdoor culture. 

To judge by the tuberous-like root it may be treated as a perennial, but it 

succeeds well in any warm border as an annual. 

Begonia Davisii, Fig, 4, is a beautiful free-flowering new tuberous-rooted 

species of dwarf habit. The 

flowers are of the brightest 

scarlet imaginable, standing 

well out of the foliage, as 

the illustration shows plain- 
ly. Undoubtedly it is one 

of the finest introductions 

among the tuberous-rooted 

class. 




RHTNCHOCAEPA GLOMEEATA. — FIG. 3. 




A Sponge Garden. — A 

hanging garden of sponge is 
one of the latest novelties in 
gardening. Take a white 
sponge of large size, and sow 
it full of rice, oats and wheat. 
Then place it for a week or 
ten days in a shallow dish, in 
which a little water is con- 
stantly kept, and as the 
sponge will absorb tha moist- 
ure, the seeds will begin to 
sprout before many days. When this has fairly taken place, the sponge may 
be suspejaded by nieans of cords from a hook in the top of the window, 
where a little sun will enter. It will thus become a mass of green, and cexi 
be kept wet by merely-immersing it in a bowl of water. 



BEGONIA DAVISH. — FIG. 4. 



FLORICVLTURE. 



401 



An Ivy Screenc_The old Celtic word for cord ia Hedra, hence the gen- 
eric name of the true ivies, in allusion to their cord-like stems. The most 
common species ia the Hedra helix, native of various parts of Britain, and 
from which many varieties have been produced. Old ruins of castles and 
churches, as well as the sacred temples of a later daj', are often half con- 
cealed with the deep green leaves of ivy. In our chmate these plants do 
not succeed as well in the open air as in some portions of Europe; still, when 
planted in a half shady position on the north side of the wall, the hardy spe- 
cies will thrive most luxuriantly, as may be seen by examining some of the 
old specimens in our Eastern cities. 

The ivies are especially valuable for covering rock work, either natural 
or artificial, particularly when it is located iu-arcool, shady place, where few 
other plants will thrive. Within the past few years our florists have paid 
far more attention to the cultivation of ivy than formerly, and great numbers 
of plants are sold every year for hanging baskets and similar ornaments. 
Among the many fine climbers grown as house plants, there are few that 
succeed as well as the 
hardy ivies, for they re- 
quire very little care, not 
being very sensitive to cold, 
and thrive better in shade 
than when exposed to the 
direct rays of the sun. 

The ivies are also veiy 
readily propagated by cut- 
tings made from almost 
any portion of the stem, 
whether old or young, and 
they will strike root in al- 
most any land of soil, clay, 
loam, peat, or sand, al- 
though a mixture of the 
last two is preferable to the 
former. It must not, how- 
ever, be supposed that be- 
cause ivy will grow in a 
poor soil, that it does not prefer one that is rich; and if a strong growth is 
desired, generous treatment must be given. 

Many beautiful ornaments may be made with these plants, and one of 
the most unique as well as useful, is the ivy as shown in the illustration. 
Such a screen cannot be made in a few days, but requires time, care and pa- 
tience. Provide a strong box of the length required for the screen, and fill 
it with silver-sand, peat, or leaf mold, addmg a small quantity of soil scraped 
up in the barnyard. Some old pieces of bricks broken up finely may be 
placed in the bottom before the soil is put in; then fill up to within an inch 
of the top. Plant either well-rooted slips or cuttings, and then give water 
whenever required, but do not keep the soil constantly soaked. "When the 
plants begin to grow, carefully tie them to slender stakes until they are 
three feet high, and then put up the frame for the screen, which should be 
of wire, painted green, and of any design to suit the fancy or purse of the 
owner. As the plants grow, the small shoots may bo drawn through the 
meshes of wire and interlaced, until both si lea of the screen become a solid 
waU of " Ivy gresn," 




AH m SCBEEN. 



402 



THE nOUSEIIOLB. 



We know that our lady readers will readily appreciate this hint, and 
know just Avhere to place such a screen to produce the most desirable efifect 
in a room, as well as how to keep the leaves free from dust, so that they 
will show to the best advantage. If a solid wall of green is considered too 
dark and gloomy, some of the vai-iegated sorts may be intermingled with the 
plam leaved, but unless carefully tended and watched they will often ap- 
pear sickly and wither away. 

A lilving Vase. — This process of ornamenting vases is byno means new; 
but, as the thing is still far from being common, and as it may give some 
one a new idea by which to help beautify the home, we have deemed it worth 
while to give a representation of it so as to show the result, and to indicate 
the means employed to obtain it, which are most simple. Though any kind 

of vases can be used indiscrim- 
inately, those in unglazed terra^ 
cotta are preferable, being por- 
ous. In such vessels the water 
with which the vase is filled 
percolates constantly through 
the sides and moistens the 
plants which are fixed on its 
surface. This kind of vase is, 
however, not indispensable, for 
we can ornament all kinds, 
whether in glass or metal. In 
the latter case it is necessary to 
prepare the surface so as to 
convert it into a sort of soU, 
which it really represents — ah 
operation which is easily man- 
aged by the aid of a piece of 
cloth or flannel which is fixed 
by means of a Uttle packthread 
or thin iron or brass wire. This 
being understood, the means 
employed to grow the seed 
must next be described. 

If a porous vase be used it 
is filled with water or, better still, left in a pail of water to soak. After a 
lapse of 24 hours, when the water has thoroughly saturated the vase, it is 
laid on its side, and the seed sprinkled slightly over the surface, taking care 
to turn the vase in different directions, in order that the whole surface may 
be well covered with seed. This operation terminated, the vase is placed in 
a dark closet for some time, and, if possible, under a glass frame, so as to 
preserve humidity and facilitate germination. ■\\Tien the plants are developed, 
and in case they get detached from the vase, they are secured by passing 
round, in difi"erent directions, a little packthread or fine wire, which soon 
disappears under the vegetation. 

If a non-porous vase, after having well soaked the cloth which covers it, 
the seed is sown upon it and the same care is given it as has already been 
indicated. When a porous vase is used it should bo kept constantly full, 
as it is the water filtering slowly through it that feeds the plants which 
coyer the Bides. If that be inaufiicient to insure rigorous growth, the vaso 




A LIVING VASE. 



FLORICULTURE, 403 

jnust be watered, taking care to pour the water cautionsly, so as not to de- 
tach the plants. If glazed or metal vases be used, glass bottles, for in- 
stance, they must be constantly watered; the water should be poured from 
the top over all, so that, in descending, it wets all parts of the cloth, which 
should always be damp. Whenever the plants droop they must be refreshed 
by watering them carefully. The vase should stand in a saucer or plate. 

The seeds used should be very fine, and especially light and of easy and 
quick germination. The common garden cress is most suitable from ita 
great rapidity of growth, the easy and very quick germination of its seeds, 
and also on account of the little nourishment the plant requires; but it has 
several drawbacks; first, it has a tendency to sink more or less, then to have 
gaps, to show flowers ^ ery quickly and then to wither away. The common 
ryegrass is also suitable, but experiments with other seeds may be made. 
We ought to multiply and vary the experiments until satisfactory results are 
obtained. The following kinds of plants might prove suitable: Crested 
Dog's-tail Grass, White Clover, Yellow Clover (Mediiago lupuUna), Fla,x, "but 
particularly the Timothy Grass (Fhlemn pratense), which appears to be sin- 
gularly appropriate for this mode of ornamentation. Let our readers experi- 
ment. 

How to Grow Sniilax. — Smilax is an exceedingly graceful vine, with 
glossy, green-ribbed leaves, and is now more extensively used than any 
other plant for decorating parlors, the hair, and for ti-immiug dresses. With 
a little care it can be grown successfully as a house plant. The vino does 
Eot require the full sun, but will grow well in a partially shaded situation, 
it can be trained on a small thread across the window or around the pic- 
tures. Grown from both seeds and bulbs. Pot the bulbs as soon as re- 
ceived, watering but little until you see signs of growth. They grow very 
rapidly and should always have strings to twine on. Give plenty of fresh 
air, but be careful and not let a direct draft of cold air blow upon the vines, 
as they are very tender when young. Give them a wami place and they will 
amply repay all care. When growth is complete the foliage will turn yellow. 
Then gradually withhold water and allow the bulbs to dry. They then can 
be piit in some cool, dry place. After they have been in this dormant state 
six or eight weeks they will begin to show signs of life, and then are ready 
for another season's growth. 

Ferns In the Honse. — I should Uke to say to the person who wishes to 
know what ferns can be grown in the house, that I have had for three win- 
ters, in a furnace heated parlor, very handsome plants of Aspidium molla 
and Adiantum cuneatum; and I have a friend who has Pteris tremula, look- 
ing as well as it could in a greenhouse. I also know that Pteris hastata does 
well in the house; so does the Japanese climbing fern and Lygodium scan- 
dons. All require to be kept comfortably warm, not too wet, and seldom 
eprinkled— just often enough to keep theiu clean. I have found that wet- 
ting the foliage often causes it to turn black. 

To Keep Geraniums tlirougli the "Winter. — Those who have no 
place in their greenhouses for geraniums, etc., will do well to put them in 
a window with a south aspect, carefully covering the pots with a little straw 
or moss, in order to prevent the frost from hurting the roots. Or take them 
from the pots and hang them up by the roots in a dark place, where the 
frost cannot touch them; if planted again in the spring they will shoot m^ 
tlourieh remarkably welii 



404 



THE nOUSEnOLD. 



Wardian Cases. — An illustration of a Wardian case is herewith given. 
A bed or box of well-drained soil, with a (cheap or costly) glass case over 
it, comprise a Wardian case. The sides should be of glass, else the plants 
will " spinder up." Take a common table frame, with the top of the table 
off; nail on boards on the bottom of the frame, line the whole with zinc, fill 
with earth (or set the plants in the case in pots>, and over it put a case made 
of glass— common window glass will answer. Any glazier can make one at 
little cost. It may be made of any shape and height desirable. There 
should be a door or eliding pane in it, so as to gain ready access to the 
plants. In the center of the bed should be a hole for drainage, over which 
a plant saucer should be inverted. Fill the bottom or the bed for in inch or 
two with broken charcoal. 

The case may be filled with plants in spring or autumn. If ir spring, the 
tonas may be gathered from the woods, and will grow all summer. It is a 

better time to make selec- 
tions than late in the fall. 
Plants in a "Wardian case are 
not so likely to freeze with 
the same degree of cold in a 
room as unprotected houso 
plants; but the room should 
be kept warm, nevertheless. 
The plants in a Wardian case 
require less care than plants 
in a room. Drench the soil 
well when the planting is 
done, and they will require 
watering but once cr twice a 
month. They will need ven- 
tilation by removing the slid- 
ing pane or opening the door 
of the case occasionally, when 
the moisture on the glass 
seems in excess, so aa to ob- 
scure the glass. 

Not only ferns and 
mosses, but win-tergi'cens, 
princess pine, partridge 
berry, the trailing arbutus, and scores of other pretty wood .plants, can be 
grown and arranged with rock and shell work, to suit the fancy and please 
the eye. We are astonished that these oases are not more common in the 
homes of the people. 

Fresli-Blowii Flo^vers in "Winter — Choose some of the most perfect 
buds of the flowers you wish to preserve, such as are latest in blooming 
and are ready to open; cut them off witli a pair of scissors, leaving to each, 
if possible, a piece of stem about three inches long; cover the end of the 
stem immediately with sealing wax, and when the buds are a little shrunk 
and wrinkled wrap each of them up separately in a piece of paper, perfectly 
clean and dry; then lock them up in a dry box or drawer, and they will keep 
(vithout corrupting. In winter, or at any time, when you would have the 
lowers blow, take the buds at night and cut off the end of the stem sealed 
>fith wax, and put the buds into water whel'ein a little nitre of salt has been 




A WAEDIAN CASE. 



UPlontOULTURE. 404 

diffused; the next day you will have the pleasure of seeing the buds open 
and expand themselves, and the flowers display their most lovely colors and 
breathe their agreeable odors. 

Parlor Ornament.— We saw, in the parlor of a friend, a very beautiful 
conceit. It is, of course, the fancy of a lady, and consists of the burr of a 
pine tree placed in a wine glass half full or water, and from between the 
different layers of the burr are shooting forth green blades— bright, beauti- 
ful, refi-eshing. For a httle thing, we have seen nothing that so pleased us 
by its beauty and novelty. And the secret is this: The burr was found dried 
and open; the different circles were sprinkled with grass-seed, and it M'as 
placed in a wine glass with water in' as above. In a few days the moisture 
and nourishment gave the biirr life and health, the different circles closed 
and buried within themselves the grass-seed, and a few days more gave to 
the seed also life, sprout and growth, and now a pyramid of living green, 
beautifully rehoved by the somber hue of the burr, is the result — as pretty 
and novel a parlor ornament as we have for a long while seen. We do not 
know whether the idea was original with the lady, but we do know that its 
success is beautiful. 

Arraiiging Bouquets. — The art of arranging bouquets is veiy simple. 
Having collected the flowers to be used on a tray, all the supertiuous leaves 
should be stripped from the stems, and by placing the flowers side by side, 
you can easily see the order in which they can be most advantageously dis- 
played. A very pretty hand bouquet can be made by taking a small, straight 
stick, not over a quarter of an inch in diameter, tie a string to the top of it, 
and begin by fastening on a few dehcate flowers, cr one large, handsome 
one, for the center-piece, winding the string about each stem as you add the 
flowers and leaves to the bouquet. Always place the flowers with the 
shortest stems at the top, preserving all those with long stems for the base, 
and finish off the bouquet with a fringe of finely cut foliage. Then cut all 
the stems evenly, wrap damp cotton around them, and cover the stems with 
a paper cut in pretty lace designs. In makingbouquets from garden flowers, 
such as are most easy to procure, the flowers can be arranged flatly, and a 
background made from sprays of evergreen. 

A Cheap Plant Stand— We made a very effective plant stand for our 
front yard last summer in the following manner: A cedar stake, two or three 
inches in diameter, was driven into the ground so as to stand firmly, and of 
the required height, a small piece of board nailed across the top, and another 
piece, a little largei', nailed over this, so as to make a substantial base, and 
a cheese box nailed to this. Then we filled the box half full by putting in a 
couple of inches of sand and sphagnum over it. The whole was then covered 
with pendent Uchen, and the box filled with plants in pots, tall ones in the 
center and smaller one around them, with trailing plants to hang over the 
sides. It was shaded by trees during the hotter portions of the day, and 
such plants as gleechoma, alj'ssum, ivy, etc., succeeded finely by merely 
pressing a handful of sphagnum around the base of cuttings and pressing 
them into the spaces between the pots. 

A Fom Paradise at Home. — It is not only the poor who have to live 
in gardenlesa dwellings andlook out from sunless windows. The mansions 
of the rich, and thousands of houses of the well-to-do and of the middle 
classes are neceeearily in great cities placed where the sua Miinot exert Taia 



m 



TSE nOTISEUOLD. 



charming life-giving influence. Many a -nindow of a grand house looks otlt 
upon nothing but brick walls, which tower up high, and blot out the sun's 
rays. The occupants of these houses are often bound by the exigencies o< 
business to make their homes for weary months in these shadowy dwelling 
places. Why then do they not bring the beautiful ferns into requisition ? 

■\^Tiat exquisite grace would bo shed over every room in a house ii every 
available space were occupied by the feathery fronds of those beautiful 

plants! On tables and side 
boards, on mantel pieces and 
on window eills; hanging 
from window rods,- on the 
landing of the stairs, in the 
hall, in the bedroom — every- 
where in fact. 

We give an illustration of 
a cane stand lined with zinc 
and filled with ferns and be- 
gonias, which might be 
bought for a dollar or two, 
and which would not be out 
of place in the most elegant 
apartment. 

House Plants. — Contrive 
some cover over them at 
sweeping time. This may be, 
for plants on shelves, a cur- 
tain of some light material; 11 
on a table, an upright poster 
etick set in a hole in the mid- 
dle of the table, to hold up 
the center of a spread of some 
kind; o r contrive some 
method of using old news- 
papers. Let this covering 
remain until the dust haa 
completely settled. All 
Bmooth-leaved plants, espe- 
cially ivy, camelias, cape 
jessamine, and the Uke, 
should have their leaves 
washed with a soft sponge — 
a rag will answer— on both 
sides, with tepid water, at 
least once a week. It will 
be found much less trouble 
than one would suppose, and the increased beauty of the foliage will lead to 
its repetition. Eough-leaved plants, such as geraniums, and many others, 
cannot be washed to advantage. Set these in a bath tub, or in a sink, and 
give their leaves a good drenching by using a garden syringe or a watering- 
pot with fine holes, holding it up high so that the water will fall with force 
upon the leaves. Be sure that the water ia not too cold, as it would tend to 
theok the growth* 




STAND FOR FERNS. 



'PLOklCULTUR&. 4^ 

ipo Preserv© Scarlet Geraniums through the Winter— Take them 
•it of tbo borders in autumn, before they have received any injury from 
frost, and let this bo done on a dry day. Shake off all the earth from their 
roots, and suspend them, -with their heads downward, in a cellar or dark 
room' where they will bo free from frost. The leaves and shoots will be- 
come yellow and sickly; but when potted about the end of May, and exposed 
to a gentle heat, they will recover and vegetate luxuriantly. The old plants, 
stripped of their leaves, may also be packed closely in sand; and in this way 
if kept free from frost, they will shoot out from the roots, and may be re- 
potted in the spring. 

MAuure for Bnlbs. — An ounce of nitrate of soda dissolved in four gal- 
lons of water is a quick and good stimulant for bulbs, to be appUed twice a. 
week after the pots are filled with roots, and the flower spikes are fairly visi- 
ble. A large handful of soot, or about a pint, tied up in a piece of old can- 
vas, and immersed in the 
same quantity of water for 
a day or two, will fur- j 
nish a safe and excellent 
stimulant; also good and safe 
is a quarter of a pound of cow 
manitre mixed in a large gar- 
den pot of water, and used aa 
required. Any of these stim- 
ulants will do good, or the 
whole of them applied alter- 
nately fl-ill benefit bulbs that 
need more sustenance than 
the soil affords. 

Trellis for JPlants.— T 

With a little slightly-galva- 
nized wire any one can make 
the little iron trellis shown in 

.„ , J. ,, . TRELLIS FOB PLANTS. 

eur illustration on this page, 

in a very neat manner — and it will look much neater and prove handier and 

more graceful than the painted stick trellises which are so common. 

How U> Grow the Pansy. — The pansy delights in a cool, rich iGam; 
the richer, the larger will be the flowers, in a partially shaded situation. It 
never flourishes as well during the hot days of July and August as later in 
the season. Young plants, from seeds sown early in the spring, if the bed 
be very rich, will come into handsome bloom during the latter part of June. 
All the first blossoms should be picked off that the plant may first become 
robust. Even with the old plants, the great secret of keeping them in con- 
Btant bloom is to pick off the blossoms early and constantly, since it weakens 
the plant more to ripen one seed-pod than to yield a dozen flowers. 

Autumn Sowing of Flower Seeds. — Persons say that the finest flow* 
ers they ever had of certain annuals were from " volunteer " plants firom 
self-grown seeds. The real reason for their superiority is not due to th* 
manner, but to the time of sowing. Seeds are " self-grown " soon after they 
are ripe, and the superiority of th« plaEta from these snggests aatuma aow* 




408 TSB aOVSEHOLD, 

ing. The annual flowers classed as " hardy " should as a general thing, i| 
practicable, be sown in autumn. Larkspurs and pausies are incomparably 
finer when thus sown. Clarkia, whitlavia, gilia, and nearly all the rest of the 
California annual, to give the best results, should be sown in autumn. 

To Repot Plants — Shake the old earth frora the plants after they com* 
mence to grow in spring, then pot them into smaller pots than those just oc- 
cupied; as the plants make fresh growth and fill these pots with roots, repot 
into those ot a size lai-ger, and so on until the plants are in their flowering 
pots. By adopting this plan the plants are supplied with fresh boU from 
time to time, and not kept growing on from year to year in the same soil, 
which soon becomes exhausted. The above remarks apply more particularly 
to such plants as fuchsias, pelargoniums, etc. 

Treatment or Knglisli Ivy. — The use of the EngUsh ivy cannot be toft 
strongly recommended as a decoration in our rooms during the winter sea- 
son. A lady noted for the beauty and freshness of her ivies was asked the 
secret ot her success, which was simply putting a small piece of beefsteak at 
the roots of the plants every spilag and fall. It is also said that to Ughtly 
rub each leaf on both sides with sweet oil will preserve a fresh, vigorous 
appearance of ivies, in spite of furnace heat and gas, usually so injurious to 
all house plants. These simple measures are weU worth tfying. 

How to Make Moss Baskets. — ^Very beautiful baskets for holding flow- 
ers can be made of the longer and more feathery kind of mosses. A light 
frame, of any shape you like, should be made with wire and covered with 
common pasteboard or caUco, and the moss, which should first be well 
picked over and cleansed from any bits of dirt or dead leaves which may be 
hanging about it, gathered into little tufts, and sewed with a coarse needle 
and thread to the covering so as to clothe it thickly with a close and com- 
pact coating, taking care that the points of the moss are all outward. A 
long handle, made in the same manner, should be attached to the basket, 
and a tin or other vessel, filled with either wet sand or water, placed within 
to hold the flowers. By dipping the whole structure into water once in three 
or four days, its verdure and elasticity will be fully preserved, Ind a block 
of wood about an inch thick, and stained black or green, if placed under the 
basket, will prevent all risk of damage to the table from moisture. 

Carnations Iron* Cuttings — Carnations are easily rooted from slips. 
Take off the small side shoots when about two inches long. If your plants 
are in pots, plant them around th« edge, pressing the soil very firmly about 
the portion inserted. Do not water them only when the parent plant re- 
quires it. If they are cultivated in the ground, plant them in the same bed, 
taking the same precaution to make the earth compact about the slips, so 
they will not dry up instead of rooting. If the ground is slightly moist, it is 
enough for them, but if very dry sprinkle occasionally. 

Gypsy Fern Case. — This fern case consists of three bars crossed at the 
top and lastened into a triangular base. A basket is suspended from the 
center of the case, and the base is decorated with shells, acorns or corals. 
The best method of making this case is to have the base first made of wood, 
then Uned with zinc. The sides should hold glass neatly filled into the bars, 
thus inclosing the plants from the outer air. The height should bo about 
three feet, and width of base two feet on each side. Any florist can supply 
ferns for 8u«h a structure. Choose only the smaller growing sorts, and avoid 



FLORIOtTLTITRS. 409 

ttoae -which branch widely. No household elegancy is more desirable than 
a tasteful fernery, well taken care of. 

Fuchsias Among Roses. — A London florist had some of his standard 
roses killed by the late spring frosts, but having some large fuchsia plants, 
they were used to fill up the " ugly gaps," and the result was a pleasant 
surprise. They stood the rough weather well, and vied with the roses as to 
quantity of bloom. He says: " If all is well we shall use fuchsias more ex- 
tensively next season." 

Treatment of Callas. — For blooming callas, writes a lady, I use the 
soil from the hennery, and on cold mornings I pour hot water in the sau- 
cers; I have had a bloom from every bulb. As my fuchsias never grew very 
large, I put in fi'esh soil and then used some fine manure from the hennery, 
and before spring it covered the window, \vith every shoot in full bloom. 

Frozen Plants— Whenever house-plants are accidentally frozen, they 
should be placed in a dark place and then sprinkled with cold water. Gera- 
niums, fuchsias, and similar kinds of j)lants, may otten be saved if care is 
given in thawing them out, even if frozen quite hard. The same rule apphes 
to dormant plants, such as grape vines and trees that become frozen while 
being carried from one section of the countiy to another. If packages of 
plants are received ia this condition they shoiild be placed in a cellar and 
then sprinkled ^vith cold water, and allowed to remain undistvirbed until 
thawed. Burying in the earth ^viH,answer equally as well, although seldom 
convenient in cold weather. Hardy plants, when well packed in damp moss, 
seldom receive any injury from frost. 

Potting and "Watex-ing Plants— -Plants cultivated in the house often 
euflfer from being put into pots very much too large lor them. The mass of 
soil, which is quite out of proportion to their needs, by frequent watering, 
soon gets iuto such a sour and sodden condition, that the roots rot away 
completely and the plant di£8. Even when the amount of soil is not greater 
than the plant needs, it is qiiite an easy matter to give too much water to 
succulents, such as the cactus family, the agaves, crassulas, and others of 
like habit. In fact, these plants, when at rest, as most of them are during 
winter, need scarcely a drop of water. 

Covering for Tender Plants. — A horticultiira\ writer says: I always 
disliked the looks of clumsy straw and matting coverings for plants. It 
made the garden look so mean that I thought I would try another plan. I 
had read that evergreen boiighs were the best thing with which to cover 
pansies and any tender plants, so I thought I would try it on tender rosea 
and such things, and I never had such success. I beUeve there is some- 
thing beneficial in the balsamine odor of the leaves, the plants look so nice— 
almost like summer. 

A Novel House Plant. — The common cranberry is a most attractive 
plant when properly cultivated in pots, and can endure a great deal of neg- 
lect which would be fatal to other plants. It only needs to be kept cool and 
moist. A compost of muck and sand is the proper material for potting it in. 
Although usually regarded as aquatic in its nature, it will not do to have 
the soil saturated with water. What it requires, is that water shall be 
within reach of its roots, and that the soil shall be one through which water 
can rise readily by capillary attraction. 



41d TEE BOUSEEOLD. 

Crygtallizlng Grasses— A lady asks for directions for crystallizing 
grasses. The following is a good recipe: Dissolve in a quart of hot water all 
the alum you can by heating and stirring — it may be a pound, it may be 
twenty ounces. Have the grasses divided into email bunches, tied. When 
the solution begins to cool, dip in the grasses, holding them there five min- 
utes, three minutes, two or one minute, according to the size of crystals you 
wish. The cooler the solution the quicker the crystals form. A glass jar ia 
convenient for beating the alum, as one can see through the glass when the 
crystals are forming, and know when to take them out. Do not let the grass 
touch the side of the jar. Plao« an old plate under the bottom to prevent 
the glass breaking. 

A Hoine-Mad« Flower Stand. — A veiy pretty flower stand can be 
made out of a table, a bucket, and a half a dozen old tin cans. Place the 
bucket in the center of the table. Punch several holes in the bottom of each 
can, and screw them firmly to the table by screws in the holes. 

Arches of stout wire may be made across the top of the cans. For ferns 
planted in the cans, which require a great deal of water, cover the top of 
the table with a shallow i^an to catch the drip. Other plants should only 
have the soil kept damp. Geraniums are fine for winter blooming, as are 
also colons, fuchsias, and petunias. Some kind of a vine should be planted 
in each of the corner cans. Trailing plants produce a good effect. 

The Acorn. — If an acorn be suspended by a piece of thread within half 
an inch of the surface of some water contained in a hyacinth glass, and so 
permitted to remain without being disturbed, it will, in a few months, buret, 
and throw a root into the water, and shoot iipward its straight and tapering 
stem, with beautiful little green leaves. A young oak tree growing in this 
way on the mantel-shelf of a room is a very elegant and interesting object. 
I have seen several oak trees, and also a chestnut ti'eo, thus growing, but 
all of them, however, have died after a few months, probably owing to the 
water not being changed sufficiently often to afford them the necessary quan- 
tity of nouiishment from the matter contained in it. 

Moving Plants— In the fall those plants that are to bo taken to the 
house to serve as window plants for the winter, should be looked after before 
the season arrives for their removal. If, with a sharp spade, each plant is 
cut around, so as to leave a ball of earth the right size for the pot, and then 
allowed to remain two or three weeks, young fibrous roots will form; when 
the plant, with the ball of earth attached is Ufted, it will scarcely experience 
any check. 

To Keep a Bonqnet FresH. — To keep a bouquet fresh for a number of 
days, sprinkle lightly with fresh water, then put it into a vessel containing 
soapsuds, which nutrify the roots and keep the flowers as bright as new. 
Take the bouquet out of the suds every morning and lay it sideways, the 
stalk entering first into the water. Keep it there a moment, then take it 
out and sprinkle the flowers lightly by the hand with water. Eeplaco it in 
the soapsuds, and it will bloom as fresh as when first gathered. The soap- 
suds need changing every other day. 

Watering Plants. — The following directions for watering house plants 
during the winter will assist those having care of them in keeping them 
in a healthy condition: Taka carbonate of ammonia fouc parts; nitrate of 



PLOniOTTLTURB. 411 

potash (saltpotro) two parts; pulverize and mix well. Put one drachm (one- 
eighth of an ounce) of this powder into a gallon of rain water. Use this for 
■watering plants. Give them a good aunlight and not too much heat, and 
plants will keep green and fresh. 

Flowers kept in a warm room should bo watered with tepid water. Very 
cold water is apt to freeze the roots. 

Starting Plants. — Boxes in windows is an excellent way of starting 
plants for early setting, though it must necessarily be on a small scale. For 
a small garden a good supply may thus be procured: In sowing the seeds, 
avoid putting them in too deep; a half inch is ample for all, and a less depth 
is better for the small seeds. Press the soil closely around the seed. 

Steam Baths for Geraniums. — Geraniums and similar plants are 
greatly benefitted during winter if given a steam bath once a week. To do 
this place them above the bath after filling it with hot water. Close the 
doors and windows and let the flowers remain there for an hour or two. 
Another good method is to place the flowers in the kitchen on wash day, 
where the steam arising from the clothes will benefit them. 

Plant Fertilizers. — Two or three ounces of guano to a gallon of water 
is a proper proportion for house plants. Keep the mixture well stirred, aa 
the guano, not being actually dissolved by the water, settles to the bottom. 
Save the soot that falls from the chimneys when they are cleaned. A pint 
of soot to a pailful of water will make a liquid manure of the greatest value 
for flower beds and plants of all kinds. 

Cut Back the Geraniums. — But few persons cut them back enough. 
If the stalks are cut back to within two or three inches of the surface of the 
ground, numerous healthy side shoots will put out and grow vigorously. 

The Amaryllis. — If any one has an amaryillis she will find it will blo«- 
Bom more freely if the dirt is kept away from the top of the bulb. An ama- 
ryllifl should have plenty of water. 



THE HOME PHYSICIAl^, 



l>reventives of Malaria—Scarcely a section of our beautL\:l country 
is free from malarial disease in some of its forms. Many localities formerly - 
free from malaria have recently been visited by this insidious foe of 
humanity. Two reasons are given for this result: -First, the ponds 
and swamps have been dried up, and the lower forms of organic matter 
have been exposed to the air, and second, wells and springs have become so 
low that the water is very impure, and no doubt its use produces an un- 
healthy state of the human body. 

If the use of impure water alone were the cause of malarial difficulties 
the remedy would be simple, namely, to substitute pure water instead, if it 
could be had, or by filtration and other means, purify what was at hand. 

The malarial influence arising from swamps or marshes can be only 
counteracted by asrating the soil and thus getting rid of the lower organisms 
resident there. By means of drainage the sour soil water is carried off, the 
air enters and decay is completed — the poison i3 destroyed and a more 
healthful condition ensues. 

But there are vast stretches of country where these means cannot be em- 
ployed, and other methods must be provided. It is now pretty well proven 
by actual plantings in California of the blue gum tree, or Eucalyptus of 
Australia, that by its use over a sufficient area the malarial tendencies can 
be counteracted. Unfortunately, by actual test, we find that the EucalyptuB 
Globosa will not endure the cold of this section of the Union. 

What then can we employ ? Professor Maury, before our late internecine 
"war, proved at the "Washington Observatory that extensive plantations of tht 
common sunflower will, during its growing season, counteract malariju 
These can be grown all over our States, and should be extensively tried. 

The common willow, being a coarse feeder and rapid grower, revelling ia 
wet and swampy land, has also been commended as one of the very best 
agents for the destruction of malarial germs. Its roots spread widely 
through the soil, while its leafage is simply enormous in proportion to ita 
Tvoody development. The three sorts of willow grow with great rapidity, 
but more immediate effects may be produ«ed by planting sprouts of tho 
osier or basket willow thickly all over tho whole of a wet or swampy surface 
Boil. 

This would be a remunerative product aside from its destruction of 
malaria. The plan is worthy of trial. 

Puenmonia. — It will be remembered that in old age the lungs are much 
fihriveled, less elastic, and can not be fully inflated; the air cells are dilated 
to about twice theu' size, many of the capillaries are obliterated, the breath- 
ing is more feeble and shallow, and the power to get rid ot carbonic acid is 
greatly diminished. 

Hence pneumonia (inflammation of the lungs) is not only one of the most 
©oOamoB diseases of old age, but the most fatal— over three-fourths (aomo 



THE no ME rHYSICLAN. 413 

say nine-tenths) of the aged dying with it. The main work of the lungs is 
done by the air-cells, the tiny laboratories in which the smaller branches of 
the air-tubes terminate, as the branches of a tree terminate in the leaves. 
Now it is these that are the seat of pneumonia. 

In the first stage of the disease they become — in some part of the lunga 
— filled with a sticky fluid, exuded frcm the blood vessels; in the second 
stage this fluid becomes solid; in the third it changes to pus. If the pus is 
absorbed — which is seldom the case in the old — the person may recover, but 
only after months of convalesence. If it result in gangrene (mortification), 
the gangrene may form numerous small abscesses through an entire lung. 

In the aged the disease seldom commences with well-defined symptoms. 
In aboiit one-half the cases there is simply & chill or a pain in the side. In 
most of the other cases the main symptom is a feeling of exhaustion. If 
there is already chronic bronchitis or asthma, the person may merely feel a 
little tired, and suddenly die. 

Though most persona cough, there is for a time no expectoration. When 
it appears it is at first scanty, gray and frothy; then yellow, and at length 
reddish and sticky. Patients seldom complain of pain or difliculty of 
breathing. 

The more common exciting cause is cold, especially diy, sharp. Nine- 
tenths of all cases occur between November and May. During this period 
the aged cannot be too carefully protected fi-om exposure. They should 
constantly wear flannel. 

About all that can be done for the patient isto stimulate him with drinks, 
nourish him with concentrated fluid food, and secure him absolute rest. 

Antidotes for Poisons. — (1) The most dangerous of the vegetable 
poisons are the hemlocks (including the hemlock dropwort, water hemlock, 
and the common hemlock), fool's i^arsley, monkshood, foxglove, black helle- 
bore, or Christmas rose, buck-bran, henbane, thorn apple, and deadly night- 
shade. In a case of vegetable poisoning, says Knoidedge, " emetics (the 
sulphate of zinc, if procurable) should bo used at once, the back of the 
throat tickled with a feather, and copious di-aughts of tepid water taken to 
excite and promote vomiting. "Where these measures fail, the stomach-pump 
must be used. Neither ipecacuanha nor tartar emetic should be used to 
cause vomiting, as duiing the nausea they produce before vomiting is excited 
the poison is more readily absorbed. Vinegar must not be given until the 
poisonous matter has been removed; but afterward it may bo given in doses 
of a wineglassful, one part vinegar to two parts water, once every two hours 
in mild cases, but oftener — to half hourly doses — in cases of greater severity. 
Where there is stupor, the patient should be kept walking about, and if tha 
stupor is great cold water may be dashed over the head and chest. Strong 
cofi'ee may be used where the narcotic effect of the poisoning is very marked. 
It is all-important that in cases of vegetable poisoning a medical man should 
be sent for at once." 

. (2) If a person swallow any poison whatever, or has fallen into convul- 
sions from having overloaded the stomach, an instantaneous remedy, more 
efiicieut and apphcable in a larger number of cases than any half a dozen 
medicines we can think of, is a heaping teaspoonful of common salt and as 
much ground mustard, stirred rapidly in a teacup of water, warm or cold, 
and swallowed instantly. It is scarcely down before it begins to come up, 
bringing \vith it the remaining contents of the stomach; and lest there be 

pjiy remnant of poison, however small, let the white of an egg, or a teacup 



dU THE nOUSEUOLB, 

of strong coffee be swallowed as soon as the stomach is quiet. These very 
common articles nullify a larger number of virulent poisons than any 
medicines in the shops. 

(3) Great quantities of Paris green are used during some seasons of the 
year, and as accidents may happen, it is well to know the antidote for the 
poison. Paris green owes its deadly i^roperties to arsenic, as does London 
purple. Should either of these be taken into the stomach, let the person 
drink copious draughts of milk, or raw eggs beaten up, and as soon as poa- 
sible give an emetic, mustard is as good as anything, and keep up the action 
of vomiting by giving milk between the paroxysms of vomiting. "When the 
stomach no longer rejects what is swallowed, give a good dose of castor oil. 

(4) It cannot bo too generally known that the ordinary calcined magnesia, 
mixed with water, is considered a certain antidcte to numerous poisons, 
especially those of metalUc origin, such as arsenic, corrosive sublimate, sul- 
phate of zinc, etc. In cases of this deplorable kind, two or three teaspoon- 
fuls of magnesia, mixed with water, should bo at onco administered, which, 
in all probability, will save the patient until the doctor comes. 

(5) Hundreds of lives have been saved by a knowledge of this simple 
receipt. A large teaspoonful of made mustard mixed in a tumbler of warm 
water, and swallowed as soon as possible; it acts as an instant emetic, suf- 
ficiently powerful to remove all that is lodged in the stomach. 

(6) A standing antidote for poison by dew, poison-oak, ivy, etc., is to take 
a handful of quicklime, dissolve in water, let it stand half an hour, then 
paint the poisoned parts with it. Three or four applications will never fail 
to cure the most aggravated cases. 

(7) The only safe and immediate remedy within the reach of a non-pro- 
fessional, in case of poisoning with prussic acid, is to pour a stream of cold 
water, from an elevation, upon the head and spine of the patient. 

(8) If a person has taken an over-dose of laudanum, very strong coffee is 
a specific antidote. Keep the patient on his feet and keep him walking. 
Sleep is fatal under such circumstances. 

Dangers of Childliood. — Childhood is the period during which the 
foundations of the physical structure are laid. It ends, at the age of about 
fourteen, with the completion of the permanent teeth. It is characterized 
by almost absolute dependence on the parents, and therefore the responsi- 
bility rests upon them whether the foundations of the superstruoture shall 
be good or bad, and, indeed, whether there shall be any superstructure! 
The fact that one-half of all who are born die within this period, while mul- 
titudes of adults find, when it is too late, fatal defects in the very ground- 
work of their constitutions, is a fearful witness against the competency of 
most parents for the care of children. "What farmer would employ a hand 
that let one-half of all his calves, colts and lambs die ? In the matter of food, 
if milk fails the mother, how few mothers know what to give the child! How 
few know that many of the compounds sold as "Infants' food" contain 
no food whatever! and that cow's milk, harmful when taken alone, is gen- 
erally safe with a certain proj^ortion of lime water! How few mothers know 
that too protracted nursing will result in " rickets ? " That overfeeding all 
through childhood is a prolific source of disease ? and that, in case of most 
bowel complaints, a spare diet for a few days is better than all medicines ? 
In our climate, where the mercury ranges through 140 degrees and often 
varies between the extremes suddenly and violently, how little do mothers 
realize the importance of aiding nature, with clothing and food, so that the 



TEE HOME PEYSIGIA2T. 415 

iniemal temperature is held steadily at 98 degrees ? Do yon know that a 
change of half a dozen degrees of the internal temperature, either way, ia 
almost sure death? The great mortality of children in summer is due 
mainly to heat. An abundance of woolen clothing alone can guard against 
the effects of the violent changes in the climate of the autumn and winter 
and spring. How few are aware that the infectious diseases which so ravage 
childhood are caused by careless exposure to the contagion, or, if aware, act 
accordingly ? 

Nervousness. — This unhealthy state of system depends upon general 
debility. It is often inherited from birth, and as often brought on by excess 
of sedentary occupation, overstrained employment of the brain, mental 
emotion, dissipation and excess. The nerves consist of a structure of fibers 
or cords passing through the entii'e body, branching off from, and having a 
connection with each other, and finally centers on the brain. They are the 
organs of feeling and sensation of every kind, and through them the mind 
operates upon the body. It is ob\'ious, therefore, that what is termed 
the "nervous system "has an important part in the bodily functions; and 
upon them not only much of the health, but happiness, depends. 

Treatment. — The cure of nervous complaints lies rather in moral than in 
medical treatment. For although much good may be effected by tonics, 
such as bark, quinine, etc., there is far more benefit to be derived fi'om atten- 
tion to diet and regimen. In such cases, solid food should preponderate 
over liquid, and the indulgence in warm and relaxing fluids should be espe- 
cially avoided; plain and nourishing meat, as beef or mutton, a steak or 
chop, together with half a piat of bitter ale or stout, forming the best dinner. 
Cocoa is preferable to tea; vegetables should be but sparingly eaten. Seden- 
tary pursuits should be cast aside as much as possible, but where they are 
compulsory, every spare moment should be devoted to outdoor employment 
and brisk exercise. Early bedtime and early rising will prove beneficial, 
and the use of the cold shower bath is excellent. Gymnastic exercises, 
fencmg, horse-riding, rowing, dancing, and other pursuits which call forth 
the energies, serve also to brace and invigorate the nervous system. It will 
also be as well to mingle with society, frequent public assemblies and 
amusements, and thus dispel that morbid desire for seclusion and quietude 
which, if indulged in to excess, renders a person unfitted for intercourse 
with mankind, and materially interferes with advancement in Ufe. 

Measles. — Measles are an acute inflammation of the skin, internal and 
external, combined with an infectious fever. 

Symptoms. — Chills, succeeded by great heat, languor, and drowsiness, 
pains in the head, back and hmbs, quick pulse, soreness of throat, thirst, 
nausea and Tomiting, a dry cough, and high colored ui-ine. These sympi 
toms increaso in violence for four days. The eyes are inflamed and weak, 
and the nose pours forth a watery secretion, with frequent sneezing. Thera 
is considerable inflammation in the larynx, windpipe, and bronchial tubes, 
with soreness of the breast and hoarseness. About the fourth day the skin 
is covered with a breaking out which produces heat and itching, and is red 
in spots, upon the face first, gradually spreading over the whole body. 1\ 
goes off in the same way, from the face first and then ttova. the body, and the 
hoarseness and other symptoms decline with it; at last the outside skin 
peels off in scales. 

Treatment.— In a mild form, nothing is required but a light diet, elightlj 



4ie THE HOUSEHOLD. 

acid drinks, and flax seed or slippery elm tea. "Warm herb teas, and fre- 
quent sponge baths with tepid water, serve to allay the fever; care should 
be taken not to let the patient take cold. If the fever is very high, and pre- 
vents the rash coming out, a slight dose of salts; or a nauseating dose of 
ipecac, lobelia, or hive syrup should bo given, and followed by teaspoonful 
'doses of compound tincture of Virginia snake-root until the fever is allayed. 
Jf the patient from any derangement takes on a low typhoid type of fever, 
and the raeh does not come out until the seventh day, and ia then of a dark 
and livid color, tonics and stimulants miist be given, and the expectoration 
promoted by some suitable remedy. The room should be kept dark to pro- 
tect the inflamed eyes. As long as the fever remains the patient should bo 
kept in bed. Exposure may cause pneumonia, which, In other words, is 
acute inflammation of the lungs. Keep in the room as long as the cough 
lasts. There is always danger of the lungs being left in an inflamed state 
after the measles, unless the greatest care is taken not to suff'er the patient 
to take cold. 

Should there be much pain, and a severe cough, this must be treated as 
a separate disease, with other remedies. 

Rheiimatisiii.—(1) Dr. Ebrards, of Nimes, states that ho has for many 
years treated all his cases of sciatica and neuralgic pains with an improvised 
apparatus consisting merely of a flat-iron and vinegar, two things that will 
be found in every house. The iron is heated imtil sufiicieutly hot to vajDoriz* 
the vinegar, and ia then covered with some woolen fabric, which is moist- 
ened with vinegar, .and the apparatus is applied at once to the painful spot. 
The application may be repeated two or three times a day. Dr. Ebrar(^ 
states that, as a rule, the pain disappears in twenty-four hours, and recovery 
ensues at once. 

(2) Take cucumbers, when full grown, and put them into a pot with a lit- 
tle salt; then put the pot over a slow fire, where it should remain for about 
an hour; then take the cucumbers and press them, the juice from which 
must be put intq bottles, corked iip tight, and placed in the cellar, where 
they should rem'-.in for about a week; then wet a flannel rag ■with the liquid, 
and apply it to the parts affected. 

(3) Half ounce of strongest camphorated spirit, one ounce spirits of turpen- 
tine, one raw egg, half pint best \'inegar. "Well mix the whole, and keep it 
closely corked. To be rubbed in three or four times a day. For rheuma- 
tism in the head, or face-ache, rub all over the back of the head "and neck, 
as well as the part which is the immediate seat of pain. 

(4) Dr. Bonnett, of Graulbet, France, recommends and prescribes for 
chronic rheumatism the use of the essential oil of turpentine by friction. He 
used it himself with perfect si;ccess, having almost instantaneously got rid 
of rheumatic pains in both knees and in the left shoulder. 

(5) A very simple remedy for rheumatism of the extremities, and one 
that very often gives great relief is, to take a largo piece of thick flannel, 
sprinkle it well with finely pulverized sulphur, and then bind snugly about 
the limb, with the sulphur next the skin. 

(6) Eor sciatic rheumatism the follovring is recommended: Two drachms 
iodide potassium, four ounces cinnamon water. Mix. Take a teasnoonful 
three times a day before eating. It is also excellent for dyspepsia. 

(7) Tincture of gum Guaicum. ten to fifteen drops, three times a day. I 
have never known it to fail in making a cure, except in ca«es of long staiwl- 
ing, when it will afford great relief. 



TEE HOME PEYSIGIAN. 417 

Toothaclie. — (1) Bi-carbonate of Boda a8 a remedy for toothache, haa 
been used veiy euccessfully. It was first introduced to the pubhc by Dr. 
Duckworth, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, who resorted to it when 
chloroform, carbohc acid, and everything else had failed. His recipe is to 
soak small pieces of cotton in a solution of thirty grains of bi-carbonate of 
soda to one fluid ounce of water, and insert the cotton in the tooth. Dr. 
Duckworth is of the opinion that very frequently the pain is due to the con- 
tact of acid sahva with the decayed tooth; and therefore, it is important, in 
cases of toothache, first to determine whether the saliva had an acid reaction. 
If this be the case, theu a simple alkaline application, as above stated, is 
the most efficacious means of cure. 

(2) The worst toothache, or neuralgia coming from the teeth, may be 
speedily ended by the application of a small bit of clean cotton saturated in 
a strong solution of ammonia to the defective tooth. Sometimes the applica- 
tion causes nervous laughter, but the paiu has disappeared. 

(3) If the tooth contains a cavity which can be ysasily reached, fill it with 
sugar of lead. Allow it to remain a few minutes, then wash it out with warm 
water, being careful to remove all of it. This is the most prompt relief for 
toothache — save the forceps— with which we are familiar. 

(4) Put a piece of quicklime, as big as a walnut, in a pint of water in a 
bottle. Clean the teeth with a httle of it every morning, rinsing the mouth 
with clean water afterward. If the teeth are good, it will preserve them, 
ancj keep away the toothache; if the teeth are gone, it mil harden the gums, 
eo that they will masticate crusts and all. 

(5) Take alum, reduce to an impalpable powder, 2 drachms; nitrous spir- 
its of ether, 7 drachms. Mix and apply them to the tooth. This is said to 
be an infaUible cftre for all kinds of toothache (unless the disease is con- 
nected with rheumatism). 

(6) Steep a piece of coarse bi-own paper in cold vinegar, then grate ginger 
on it, and apply to the side of the face affected; the application to be made 
at bedtime, and kept on during the whole of the night. 

n) One ounce alcohol, two drachms cayenne pepper, one ounce kerosene 
oil; mix, and let stand twenty-four hours — a sure cure. 

IVomids. — (1) A wound produced by a sharp cutting instrument wUl 
heal without trouble when the edges are nicely brought together, and left 
80, without putting on any salve, provided the access of air is shut off and 
the person possesses H good constitution. If the wound is produced by a 
rusty nail, or a similar cause, so as to be jagged, it will soon become very 
inflamed, and in sitch a case it is recommended to smoke such a wound with 
burning wool or woolen cloth. Twenty minutes in the smoke of wool will 
take the paiu out of the worst wound, and if repeated once or twice wUl allay 
the worst case of inflammation arising from a wound. 

(2) The best simple remedy for surface woiinds, such as cuts, abrasion of 
the skin, etc., is charcoal. Take a large coal from the fire, pulverize it, ap- 
ply it to the wound, and cover the whole with a rag. The charcoal absorbs 
the fluid secreted by the wound, and lays the foundation of the scab; it also 
prevents the rag from irritating the flesh, and is an antiseptic. 

(3) Without waiting for it to stop bleeding, press the edges of the lacerated 
flesh together, and apply immediately a plaster made of soot and cream, 
binding it firmly on, not to be removed till healed, without cleanliness re- 
quires it. Then put another of the same on, without delay, not allowing 
exposure to the air any more than possible to prevent. 



418 THE HOUSEUOLB 

(4) It is not generally known that the leaves of geranium are an excellent 
Bppbcation for cute, where the skin is rubbed off, and other wounds of that 
kind. One or two leaves must bo bruised and applied to the part, and the 
Wound will be cicatrized in a short time. 

(5) There is nothing better for a cut than powdered resin. Get a few 
cents' worth, pound it until it is quite tine, put it in a cast-off spice box, with 
perforated top, then you can easily sift it on the cut. Put a soft cloth around 
the injured member, and wet it with water once in a while; it will prevent 
inflammation or soreness. 

(6) When a nail or pin has been run into the foot, instantly bind on a rind 
of salt pork, and keep quiet till the wound is well. The lockjaw is often 
caused by such wounds, if neglected. 

(7) It is a wise plan to keep a cup of alum water always convenient, so 
that sudden cuts or bruises can be bound up in a cloth wet in it. If treated 
thus they will heal quickly. 

Sprains and Bmlses. — (1) The best treatment of sprains and bruises is 
the application of water, of such temperature as ia most agreeable. The de- 
gree of temperature varies with the temperature of the weather and the 
vigor of the circulation. In a hot day use cool or cold water. If the circu- 
lation is low use warm water. The bruised or sprained parts may be im- 
mersed in a pail of water, and gently pressed or manipulated with the hand 
or soft cloth for ten or fifteen minutes, or even longer in severe cases, after 
which wrap up the parts in cloths wet in cold water, and keep quiet. This 
treatment keeps down the inflamigation, and in nine cases out of ten proves 
a speedy cure. The liniments and "filthy ointments so much used for sprains 
do not compare with this simple treatment in efficacy. 

(2) Take one part blue clay and two parts vinegar, and make into a paste, 
and bind on at night mth a wet towel. One application is generally suffi- 
cient. 

(3) Make pounded resin into a paste with fresh butter, lay it on the 
sprained part and bind it up. 

Weak and Inflamed Eyes — (1) Borax, half drachm; camphor water, 
three ounces. The above simple prescription is in common use by the high- 
est medical authorities. It makes a wash unexcelled for the treatment of 
inflammation of the eyes. In using it lean the head back and drop three 
drops in the corner of each, and then open the eyes and let it work in. Use 
it as often as the eyes feel badly. i 

(2) When the eyes become inflamed from any cause, do not rub them at 
all — such irritation ia dangerous — but bathe them in tepid milk and water, 
keep the bowels open by some gentle medicine and eat little meat. The 
eyes are very sensitive to the state of the stomach. Avoid the glare of 
strong light. 

(3) Bathe your eyes night and morning in a tolerably strong solution of 
salt and water. We have known some remarkable cures effected by this 
simple remedy. After bathing the eyes daily for about a week, intermit a 
day or two, and then resume the daily bathing, and so on till your eyes get 
strong again. 

(4) Take rose leaves, the more the better, and put them into a little water; 
then boil; after this strain it into a bottle and cork it tight. You will find 
this liquid very beneficial ia lemovxn^ redness and weakness from Hift 
©yes. 



THE HOME PHYSICIAN. 419 

(B) ^ut a slice of stale bread as thin as possible; toast bofc sides wall^ 
but don't burn; when cold, lay in cold spring or ice water; put between a 
piece of old linen and apply, changing when it gets warm. 

(6) Take half an ounce of Golden Seal (you will find it at the drug stores), 
pour one-half pint boiling water upou it and let it cool. Bathe the eyes with 
a linen rag dipped in this, each night on going to bed, and you will soon 
effect a cure. 

(7) Three or five grains of alum dissolved in half a pint of water, and ap- 
plied to the eyes whenever they are weak or inflamed. 

(8) Scrape a raw potato; use as a poultice; or slippery elm. Bathe with 
warm water or rose water. 

Dust ill tlie Eye. — (1) If a cinder or bit of dust gets into the eye do not 
rub the eyeball; that only ii-ritates it. If the intruder is beneath the upper 
eyehd, lift the upper lid with the thumb and finger of the right hand, and 
with the forefinger of the left hand raise upward the under eyelid while yo\i 
pull down over it the upper Ud. This Avill seldom fail to remove the cinder, 
the soft skin and eyelashes taking it off without injuring the eyeball. 

(2) A small camel's-hair brush, dipped in water and passed over the ball 
of the eye on raising the lid. The operation requires no skill, takgs but a 
moment, and instantly removes any cinder or particle of duat or dii't, with- 
out inflaming the eye. 

(3) To remove specks of dirt from the eye, immerse it in cold water, then 
roll and wink it rapidly, still keeping it in the water, till the desired result 
is accompUshed. In cases of sUght inflammation or dryness of the eye, this 
bath has a good effect. Use tepid, sUghtly salted water, instead of the 
cold. 

(4) A celebrated ocuUst in Utrecht recommends, in all cases where dirt, 
lime, or specks get into the eyes, that the sufferer have pure olive oil poured 
in until every1,hing of a hurtful nature is removed. The remedy is quite 
painless, and never fails to remove all foreign substances. 

Sore Tliroa*. — (1) An exchange thinks that salt and water, a large table- 
apoonful of salt to half a tumbler of water, used as a gargle for sore throaii 
just before meal time, is an excellent remedy for such complaint. A httle 
red pepper should be added if the salt water does not prove successful. 
Red pepper, honey or sugar, and sharp vinegar, simmered together, and 
then tempered with water so as not to be too sti'ong, is a good remedy easily 
obtained. 

(2) Sometimes a sore throat can be cured by the following simple recipe: 
Soak in water a small piece of bread and mix with it a pinch of cayenne 
pepper; roll it up in the form of a pill and swallow it. Usually in three 
hours the patient will be reUeved of all pain. In aggravated cases a second 
dose may be requisite. 

(3) K you have a sore throat, sUght or serious, a piece of camphor-gum 
as large as a pea, kept in the mouth until dissolved, will give relief and 
ofttimes cure. It is said on good authority, if the gum is used in season, 
you will never have diphtheria — it is a good j^reventive. 

(4) A gargle of salt and vinegar, ^nih a little cayenne pepper, will do 
more to disperse soreness of the throat than any other remedy of which we 
have heard. It stimulates the glands, promotes free secretion, and will 
eometimes cure in a few hours. 

C5J Oo© ounce of beat Peruviau bark, two wiaeglassfuls of honey, burat 



420 THE nOUSEHOLT). 

alum the 8izo of two •walnuts, borax the size of a shellbark. Mix these !■♦ 
grcdicnts in a quart of water, and then stew them until reduced to a pint. 
Shako the mixture previous to using it. 

(6) An excellent I'emedy for sore throat is brewers' yeast and honey — 
four tablespoonfuls of the lirst and one teaspoonful of the latter. Mix in a 
cup, and gargle the thi-oat two or three times an hour. 

(7) Chlorate of potash dissolved in water is a standard remedy for sore 
throat, particularly when the throat feels raw. 

(8) Use a gargle of a goblet half full of water, with a teaspoonful of com- 
mon baking soda dissolved in it. 

Dieting for Health. — This has sent many a one to the grave, and will ' 
Bond many more, because it is done injudiciously or ignorantly. One man 
omits his dinner by a herculean effort, and thinking he has accomplished 
wonders, expects wonderful results; but by the time supper is ready, he feels 
as hungiy as a dog, and eats like one — fast, furious and long. Next day he 
is worse, and " don't believe in dieting" for the remainder of life. 

Others set out to starve themselves into health, until the system is 
reduced so low that it has no jiower of resuscitation, and the man dies. 

To diet wisely, does not imply a total abstinence from all food, but the 
taking of just enough, or of a qiiality adapted to the nature of the case. 
Loose bowels weaken very rapidly — total abstinence from all food increases 
the debUity. In this case, food should be taken which, while it tends to 
arrest the disease, imparts nutriment and strength to the system. In this 
case, rest on a bed, and eating boiled rice, after it has been parched like 
coffee, will cure three cases out of iowx of common diarrhcea in a day or two. 

Others think that, in order to diet effectually, it is all important to do 
■without meat, but allow themselves the widest liberty in all else. But in 
many cases, dyspeptic conditions of the system particularly, the course 
ought to be reversed, because meat is converted into nutriment, with the 
expenditure of less stomach power than vegetables, while a given amount of 
Vrork does three times as much good, gives three times as much nutriment 
and strength as vegetable food would. 

Scald Head—This appearance is the result of a bad state of the system 
— ^bad blood — the humors affecting the head often in consequence of neglect 
of cleanliness, or too rough combing or brushmg of the head. -There are 
cases in which wet cloths applied to the head, wet in arnica and water (four 
parts of water to one of arnica), may soon remove the difficulty if there ia 
not too much of impurity in the system seeking an escape in this way. 

Such a child should be much in the open air, be regular in taking food, 
eat the simplest kinds— the less the better of grease, salt, and the sweets 
generally. The parts may be bathed in irnica, glycerine or sweet oil, to 
protect them from the irritation of the air, etc. 

In specially stubborn cases, it is well to produce an irritation in another . 
part of the body, by the mustard or blister plaster, diverting it from the head, 
since the head is more likely to bo attacked than most parts of the body. Its 
appearance is not a misfortune, but the location is not the best. 

By no means use any sugar of lead or anything like it— an active poison-— 
and do not attempt to " dry it up," or suddenly cure it, since there is always 
danger of diiving it to some internal organ, some unsafe place; it is safer to 
do nothing, allowing nature to care for it, than to do wrong. It is not best to 
" dabble " with unknown remedies— poisons— or to Jiaten to all told you by 



fSE HOME PRYSICIAN. 421 

your neigbbors, who may know nothing ol' the mattci-, though thej' may have 
had many ehiklrcn, which fact never gives iutclUgoucc. 

Medical Q,ualiUes of Leinoiis. — A good deal has been said about the 
healthfulness of lemons. The latest advice is bow to use them so that they 
■will do the moat good, as follows: Most people know the benefit of lemonade 
before breakfast, but few know that it is more than doubled by taking 
another at night also. The way to get the better of the bilious system with- 
out blue pills or quinine is to take the juice of one, two or three lemons, as 
appetite craves, in as much ice water as makes it pleasant to drink without 
sugar before going to bed. In the morning, on rising, at least half an hour 
before breakfast, take the juice of one lemon in a goblet of water. This will 
clear the system of hiimor and bile with efliciency, without any of the weak- 
ening effects of calomel or congress water. People should not irritate the 
stomach by eating lemons clear; the powerful acid of the juice, which is 
always most corrosive, invariably produces inflammation after a while, but 
properly diluted, so that it does not burn or draw the throat, it does its 
medical work without harm, and, when the stomach is clear of food, has 
abundant opportunity to work over the system thoroughly, says a medical 
authority. 

Wliooping CoiigU. — (1) Dr. Grath, of Vienna, proposes a singular treat- 
ment for this distressing ailment, which will doubtless receive careful con- 
Bideration from the medical profession. He states that by placing twenty 
drops of the oil of turpentine on a handkerchief, holding it before the face, 
and taking about forty deep inspirations, to bo repeated thrice daily, marked 
relief, succeeded in cases of laryngeal catarrh liy speedy cure, is the result. 
Being called in to attend an infant of fifteen months in the convulsive stage, 
he instructed the child's mother to hold a cloth moistened, as already de- 
scribed, before it when awake, and to drop the oil upon its pillow when 
asleep. In this instance the remedy in its effect was most beneficial. The 
frequency and severity of the attacks sensibly decreased in the course ol 
twenty-four hours, and by proper support by the help of stimulants, im- 
provement was rapid. 

(2) Dissolve a scruple of salt of tartar in a gill of water; add to it ten 
grains of cochineal; sweeten it with sugar. Give to an infant the fourth 
part of a tablespoonful four times a day; two years old, half a tablespoonful; 
from four years, a tablespoonful. This has been a very SHCcessful 
mixture. 

(3) The following is regarded as an excellent remedy: Pure carbonate of 
potassa, one scruple; cochineal, one grain. Dissolve in six ounces of water 
sweetened with sugar. Dose for a child foui or five years old, one teaspoon- 
ful three times a day, to be taken before meals. 

(4) The inhalation of air charged with ammonia vapors, as a remedy for 
whooping cough, has been tried in France with sviccess. One of the methods 
of application employed is boiling strong ammonia in the room where the 
patient is. 

(5) Pound best black resin very fine, and give as much as will lie on a 
cent in a little moist sugar three times a lay, commencing before breakfast 
in the morning. I have known it to cure the most obstinate cases of whoop- 
ing cough in three weeks. 

(6) An excellent cure for whooping cough, and one that I have seen tried 
In eeveral iuataaccB with entire auccees, ia simply this: Steep a, handful oi 



i22 THE TTorrsEnoLD. 

cheetnut loaves in a pint of boiling water; sweeten, cool, and give as a com* 
mon drink live or six times a day. 

Nenralgia._(l) A very simple relief for neuralgia is to boil a small 
handful of lobelia in half a pint of water till the strength i« out of the herb, 
then strain it oft' and add a teasiDoouful of fine salt. Wring cloths out of the 
liquid as hot as possible, and spread over the part affected. It acts like a 
abai'm. Change the cloths as soon as cold till the pain is all gone; then 
cover the place with a soft dry covering till perspiration is over, to prevent 
taking cold. Eheumatism can often be reUeved by application to the painful 
parts, of cloths wet in a weak solution of sal soda water. If there is inflam- 
mation in the joints the cure is very quick. The wash sho>ald bo lukewarm. 

(2) Procure a half-ounce of the oil of peppermint, and, with a camels' 
hair brush, paint the parts of the face where the pain is felt. We have 
found it an excellent application in all forms of pain in the face. A drop 
applied to the cavity of an aching tooth, and confined there with a pellet of 
cotton, will arrest the pain. 

(3) A noted cure for neuralgia is hot vinegar vaporized. Heat a flatiron 
sufficiently hot to vaporize the vinegar, cover this with some woolen material, 
which is moistened with vinegar, and the apparatus is then applied at once 
to the painful spot. The application may be repeated until the pain dis- 
appears. 

(4) Have a flannel cap made to fasten under the chin; wear three nights; 
let three nights pass, tli«n put on again if necessary. For neuralgia in eye- 
brows, bind a strip of flannel around the head; rub the teeth with equal 
parts of salt and alum, pulverized, on a soft, wet bit of linen. 

(5) Squeeze the juice of a good-sized lemon into a tumbler of water, and 
every half hour take two or three movithfuls ol this liquid. If relief is not 
experienced within twenty-four hours, continue the remedy. In slight cases 
the above has often proved an effectual cure. 

(6) Many cases of neui-algia have been cured by the common field thistle. 
The leaves are macerated and used on the parts affected as a poultice, while 
a small quantity of the leaves are made a tea of, and a small wine of the 
decoction is taken as a drink before- each meal. 

(7) A simple remedy for neuralgia is horseradish. Grate and mix it in 
vinegai", the same as for table purposes, and apply to the temple when the 
face or the head is affected, or the wrist when the pain is in the arm or 
sbouldA. 

(8) Half a drachm of sal-ammoniac in one ounce of camphor water, to be 
taken a teaspoonful at a dose, and the dose repeated several times, at 
intervals of five minutes, if the pain be not relieved at once. 

(9) Persons troubled with neuralgia will find this a cure, if they tiy it. 
Two dj'ops of laudanum in half teaspoonful of warm water, and dropped into 
the ears; it will give immediate relief. 

(10) It is said that the fumes of siigar snuffed up the nose will cure 
ordinary cases of neuralgia. Put a small quantity of sugar on a hot shovel 
and try it as directed. 

Earache. — (1) As soon as any soreness is felt in the ear — which feeling 
always precedes the regular ache — let three or four drops of tincture of 
arnica be poured in, and then the orifice filled with a little cotton to exclude 
the air, and in a short time the uneasiness is forgotten. If the arnica is not 
resorted to until there ia actual pain, the cure may not be so speedy, but it 



THE HOME PHYSICIAN-. 423 

Ib just as certain. If one application of the arnica does not eflect a cure, it 
will be necessary to repeat it, it may be, several times. 

(2) Persons will find relief for earache by putting in a spoon two or three 
drops of sweet oil, or, better still, almond oil, the same of molasses and 
laudanum, warming it altogether. Absorb some of the mixture in cotton 
wool; put it in the ear, with a piece of wool outside to keep out the cold air, 
repeating the thing if necessary. A roast onion heart dipped in this and 
surrounded with the cotton is also often very efficacious. 
' (3) The most effectual remedy has been a small clove of garlic, steeped 
for a few minutes in warm salad oil, and put into the ear rolled up in muslin 
or thin linen. In some time the garlic is reduced to a pulp, and having ac- 
complished its object should be replaced with cotton to prevent the patient 
getting cold. 

(4) To cure earache take a bit of cotton batting, put upon it a pinch of 
black pepper, gather it up and tie it, dip in sweet oil and insert into the ear. 
Put a flannel bandage over the head and keep it warm. It mil give imme- 
diate relief. 

(5) Dissolve assafcetida in water; warm a few drops and drop in the ear, 
then cork the ear with cotton. 

AVorms. — Some members of the profession still cling with bull-dog ten- 
acity to the opinion that worms do not affect the health of children, and that 
they are natural to them. The latter may or may not be true, but wken 
they accumulate in the intestines, they produce the same disturbance that 
any foreign, indigestible substance would do. We find the picking of the 
nose, swollen lower eye-lids, restlessness in sleep, groaning, gritting teeth, 
starting, and lastly, spasms. 

Woi-ms kill more children than teething; and when you find the above 
symptoms with a strawberry tongue and a fever, which will attack several 
times daily, going off as frequently in cold sweats, you can swear that you 
have a case of worms, and had as well prepare and attack them. 

Now as to the best means of getting rid of them. I use the fluid extract 
of senna and spigeha in teaspoonful doses fur patients of eight or ten years 
of age, and less in proportion, night and morning, for three nights and days^ 
following this up each morning ^vith a good dose of castor oil, provided the 
senna and spigeha does not act. Then wait three days, and again institute 
the same proceedings, and for the same length of time. 

This treatment is for the lumbric old. For the oxyuris, or " thread 
worm," I use any bitter infusion by enema, sulph. quinine, followed by aR 
enema of common salt and milk — warm water half an hour afterward, whicb 
will destroy and expel them. 

The symptoms of the presence of the worm are the same as the former, 
with the exception that in the latter you will find the sufferer scratching the 
anus. If every practitioner will use these he will be gratified by the restora- 
tion to immediate health of many a little sufferer, who would otherwise 
linger in sickness for many months and perhaps eventually die. 

"Warts. — (1) A much safer remedy for warts than nitrate of silver is sal- 
ammoniac. Get a piece about the size of a walnut; moisten the warts, and 
rub the sal-ammoniac well on them every night and morning, and in about 
a fortnight they will probably disappear. If not, do not despair, but con- 
tinue the process till tney are gone. 

(2) The best treatment of warts is to pare the dry and hard skin from 



424 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

their tops, and then touch them witJi the sniallest drop of strong acetic acid, 
taking care that the acid docs not run off the wart upon the neighboring 
Bliin; for if it does, it will occasion inllammatiou and much pain. If this is 
continued once or twice daily, with regularity, paring the surface of the wart 
occasionally, when it gets hard and dry, the wart will be soon effectually cured. 

(3) Take half an ounce of suljjhur; half an ounce of alcohol, 95 per cent.; 
put into an ounce phial, shake them well together, and apply freely once or 
twice a day for two or three weeks. By the end of this time, or a mouth at 
tho most, the warts will be gone. 

(4) Dissolve as much common washing-soda aa the water will take up; 
wash the warts with this for a minute or two, and let them dry without wip- 
ing. Keep the water in a bottle, and repeat the washmg often, and it will 
take away the largest warts. 

(5) Oil of cinnamon dropped on warts three or four times a day will 
cause their disappearance, however hard, large, or dense they may be. The 
application gives no pain nor causes supj)uration. 

(6) The bark of the willow tree, burnt to ashes, applied to the parts, will 
remove all warts or excrescences on any part of the body. 

Burns and Scalds. — (1) Mix common kitchen whitening with sweet oil, 
or, if sweet oil is not at hand, with water. Plaster the whole of the burn 
and some inches beyond it, all round, with the above, after mixing it to the 
eonsistency of common paste, and lay it ou an eighth, or rather more, of an 
inch in thickness. It acts like a charm; the most agonizing pain is in a few 
minutes stilled. Take care to keep the mixture moist by the application, 
from time to time, of fresh oil or fresh water, and at night wi-ap the whole 
part affected in gutta-percha or flannel, to keep the moisture from evapor- 
rating. The j^atient will, in all probability, unless the flesh be much injured 
and the burn a very bad one, sleep soundly. 

(2) For burns and scalds nothing is more soothing than the white of an 
egg, which may be jDourcd over the wound. It is softer as a varnish for a 
burn than collodion, and being atNvays at hand can be applied immediately. 
It is also more cooling than the sweet oil and cotton which was formerly 
supposed to be the surest application to allay the smarting pam. It is the 
contact with the air which gives the extreme discomfort experienced from 
the ordinary accident of this kind, and anything which excludes the aii" and 
prevents inflammation is the thing to be applied. 

(3) The following is one of the best applications we know of in cases of 
burns or scalds, more especially where a large surface is denuded of the 
skin: Take one drachm of finely-powdered alum, and mix thoroughly with 
the whites of two eggs and one teacup of fresh lard; spread on a cloth, and 
apply to the j^arts burned. It gives almost instant relief from pain, and, by 
excluding the air, prevents inflammatory action The application should be 
changed at least once a day. 

{4) Common baking soda — the bicarbonate— has been found to cure burns 
or scalds, affording immediate relief when it is promptly applied. For a 
dry burn, the soda should be made into paste with water. For a scald of 
wet burned surface, the powdered soda (or borax will do as well) should be 
dusted on. 

(5) It is said that charcoal is a sure cure for bums. By laying a small 
piece of cold charcoal on the burn, the pain subsides immediately. By leav- 
ing the charcoal on for an hour the wound is healed, as has been demoii- 
8trat«d on several occaaiooe. 



THE HOME PHYSIUIAN. 425 

(6) For burns awcct oil ami cotton are the standard remedies. If thxiy 
are not at hand sprinkle the burned part with lloiir and wrap loosely with a 
soft cloth. Don't remove the dressing until the inflammation subsides, as it 
will break the new skin that is forming. 

(7) One ounce of pulverized borax, one quart of boiling water, hali" ounce 
of pulverized alum. Shake up well and bottle. Wrap the burn up in soft 
linen, and keep constantly wet with the solution. Do not x'emove the linen 
until the bui-n is cured. 

(8) Soak a piece of linen rag in linseed oil, suspend it from the tongs 
over a saucer, and ignite the lower end; the oil which drops from it, while 
consuming, should be applied, when cold, with a feather, to the burn or 
scald. 

(9) Smear the scorched surface with glycerine, by means of a feather, 
then apply cotton wadding; lastly, cover with oil-silk. This treatment has 
been very successful in cases of recent occurrence. 

( 10) The ti-ue physiological way of treating burns and scalds is at once to 
exclude the air, with cotton, batting, flour, scraped potato or anything that is 
handiest. 

Heaclaelie. — (1 ) All ships sailing in hot climates carry a supply of limes, 
whose acid juice is a remedy for biliousness. Dr. Hairo says he has cured 
many victims of sick headache with the following simple presci'iption: When 
the first symptoms of a headache appear, take a teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
clear, fifteen minutes before each meal, and the same dose at bedtime. Fol- 
low this up until all symptoms are past, taking no other medicines, and you 
will soon be freed from your periodical nuisance. Sick headache is the sig- 
nal of distress which the stomach puts up to inform us that there is an over 
alkaline condition of its fluids — that it needs a natural acid to restore the 
battery to its normal working condition. Lemonade without sugar, plain 
lemon juice and water, is a grateful and medicinal beverage for a person of 
bilious habit, allaying feverishness and promoting sleep and appetite. Some 
who cannot aiibrd to be sick may bo willing to make a conscientious trial of 
the above remedy, which is neither patented nor costly. To make it a sov- 
ereign remedy it will in most cases need the help of a reform in diet, or a 
let-up from work and care — one or both. In other words, the same causes 
will be apt to reproduce the effect — as the pinching boot will recreate corns 
where they have been removed. 

(2) A new remedy for headache has been found by Dr. Haley, an Aus- 
tralian physician, who says that for some years past he has found minimum 
doses of iodide of potassium of great service in frontal headache; that is, 
a heavy, dull headache, situated over the bi-ow, and accompanied by lan- 
gour, chilliness and a feeling of general discomfort, with distaste for food, 
Avliich sometimes approaches to nausea, can be completely removed by a 
two grain dose dissolved in half a wiueglassful of water, and this quietly 
sipped, the whole quantity being taken in about ten minutes. In many 
cases, he adds, the effect of these small doses has been simply wonderful, 
as, for instance, a person, who a quarter of an hour ago was feeling most 
miserable, and refused all food, wishing only for quietness, would now take 
a good meal and resume his wonted cheerfulness. If this cure of Dr, 
Haley's is in reality a practical one, he will merit, for the discovery, the 
^•atitude of suffering millions. 

i) Dr. Lauder Brunton says: " The administration of a brisk purgative, 
or small doses of Epsom salts, thrice a day, is a most effectual remedy for 



i^ THE TTOUSEnOLI). 

frontal hcadacbo \rhon combined with constipation; but if the bowels be 
regular, the morbid processes on which it depends seem to be checked, 
and the headache remeved even more effectuallj' by nitro-hydrochloric acid, 
or by alkalies, given before meals. If the headache is immediately above 
the eyebrows, the acid is best; but if it be a little liigher up, just where the 
hair begins, the alkalies appear to me to be the more eft'ectual. At the same 
time that the headache is removed, the feelings of sleepiness and weariness, 
which frequently lead the patients to complain that they rise up more tired 
than they lie down, generally disappear." 

(4) Dr. Hall states that sick headache is the result of eating too much 
and exercising too little. Nine times in ten the cause is in the fact that the 
stomach was not able to digest the food last introduced into it, either from 
its having been unsuitable, or excessive in quantity. A diet of bread and 
butter with ripe fruits or berries, with moderate, continuous exercise in the 
open air, sufficient to keep up a gentle perspiration, would cure almost every 
case in a short time. Two toaspoontnls of powdered charcoal in a half glass 
of water, and drank, generally gives instant relief. 

(5) Put a handful of salt into a quart of water, add one ounce of spirits of 
hartshorn, and half an ounce of camphorated spirits of wine. Put them 
quickly into a bottle, and cork tightly to prevent the escape of the spirits. 
Soak a piece of rag with the mixture, and apply it to the head; wet the rag 
afresh as soon as it gets heated. 

(6) A mixture of ice and salt, in proportion of one to one-half, applied to 
the head, frequently gives instant relief from acute headache. It shoiild be 
tied up in a small linen cloth, like a pad, and held as near as possible to the 
aeat of the pain. 

(7) For sick headache, induced by bilious derangement, steep five cents' 
worth of senna and camomile flowers in a little water, to make strong 
decoction, and take. It has been tried successfully in various cases. 

(8) Coarse brown paper soaked in vinegar and jjlaced on the forehead is" 
good for a sick headache. If the eyelids are gently bathed in cool water the 
pain in the head is generally allayed. 

(9) Nervous headache is said to be instantly relieved by shampooing the 
head •with a quart of cold water in which a dessertspoonful of soda has beep 
dissolved. 

Offensive Breatli — (1) From six to ten drops of the concentrated solu- 
tion of chloride of soda, in a wineglassful of pure spring water, taken imme- 
diately after the ablutions of the morning are completed, will sweeten the 
breath, by disinfecting the stomach, which far from being injured will be 
benefitted by the medicine. If necessary, this may be repeated in the mid- 
dle of the day. In some cases the odor arising from carious teeth is com- 
bined with that of the stomach. If the mouth is well rinsed with a teaspoon- 
ful of the solution of the chloride in a tumbler of water, the bad odor of the 
teeth will be removed. 

(2) To correct the odor of decayed teeth, two or three drops of a solution 
of permanganate of potassa may be used in a glass of water as a wash, or a 
few drops of the solution may be put into the cavity of the tooth on a small 
piece of cotton. A good remedy for a bad breath, arising from a foul 
Btomach, is charcoal powder in teaspoonful doses— a dose every other morn- 
ing before breakfast for two or three weeks, if necessary. 

(3) Bad breath from catarrh, foul stomach, or bad teeth, may be tem- 
porarily relieyed by diluting a little bromo chloralum with eight or ten parte 



TSP. no ME PHYSICIAN. 4^? 

of water, and vsing it as a gargle, aud swallowing a few drops before going 
ont. A pint of bromo chloralum costs fifty cents, but a small vial full will 
last a long time. 

(4) Take eight drops of muriatic acid, in half a tumbler of spring water, 
and add a little lemon peel or juice to suit the palate. Let this mixture be 
taken three times a day for some weeks, and, if found beneficial, then use it 
occasionally. 

(5) The best treatment in regard to offenStve breath is the use of pow- 
dered charcoal, two or three tablespoonfuls per week, taken in a glass of 
water before retiring for the night. 

To Stop Bleeding. — (1) If a man is wounded so that the blood flows, 
that flow is either regular, or by jets or spurts. If it flows regularly, a vein 
has been wounded, and a string should be bound tightly around below the 
wounded part, that is, beyond it from the heart. If the blood comes out by 
leaps or jets, an artery has been severed, and the person may bleed to death 
in a few minutes; to prevent which apply the cord above the wound, that is, 
between the wound and the heart. In case a string or cord is not at hand, 
tie the two opposite coi-ners of a handkerchief around the limb, put a stick 
between and turn it round until the handkerchief is twisted sufliciently tight 
to stop the bleeding, and keep it so until a physician can be had. 

(2) It is said that bleeding from a wound, on man or beast, may be 
stopped by a mixture of wheat flour and common salt, in equal parts, bound 
on with a cloth. If the bleeding be profuse, use a large quantity, say from 
one to three pints. It may be left on for hours or even days, it' necessary. 
The person who gave vis this receipt says: " In this manner I saved the life 
of a horse which was bleeding from a wounded artery; the bleeding ceased 
in five minutes after the application." 

(3) Blood may be made to cease to flow as follows: Take fine dust of tea 
and bind it close to the wound; at all times accessible and easily to be 
obtained. After the blood has ceased to flow, laudanum may be advantage- 
ously applied to the wound. Due regard to these instructions would save 
agitation of mind, and running for the surgeon, who would, probably, make 
no better prescription if he were present. 

(4) Powdered rosin is the best thing to stop bleeding from cuts. After 
the powder is sprinkled on, wrap the wound with a soft cotton cloth. As 
soon as the wound begins to feel feverish, keep the cloth wet with cold 
water. 

(5) For internal bleeding put the patient in bed with the head slightly 
raised, keep the room cool, and give frequently a swallow of the coldest 
water or a pellet of ice. 

(6) For bleeding, take linen or other rags, burn to charcoal and put it in 
the wound, and no more blood will come. 

(7) For bleeding at the cavity of an extracted tooth, pack the alveolus 
fully and firmly with cotton wet with alum water. 

Children's Falls._A child rolls down the stairs, or falls from a height, 
and in either case strikes its head •Nvith force. What shall be done till the 
doctor comes ? We would give the following directions, as nearly as possible 
in the order in which they should be adopted. Raise the child gently in the 
arms, and carrying to the nearest sofa or bed, place him on it— unless crying 
loudly, when he can be Boothed quickest in his mother's arms. All the 
clothing should be loosened, especially about th« B«ck, to afford the freest 



428 THE ironsEnoLD. 

circulation of the hlood to and from the head. To cqnaliTie the circulation 
and prevent inHamnuitious the head should be kept cool and the extremities 
warm. Cooling lotions of arnica or witch hazel and water or simply water 
should be applied to the head on thin cloths, well wrung out so as not to wet 
the pillows and bed-clothes. Not more than two or four thicknesses of linen 
should be used, because thick cloths prevent evai^oration, and what was 
intended to cool the head acts as a poultice and makes the head hotter. Ice 
and cold water should not be used unless the head be very hot, as it is 
believed children have been killed by the application of pounded ice to the 
head. 

Bottles of hot water or hot irons are all that is necessary, besides the bed- 
clothing, to heat the extremities. All applications of mustard and other 
irritants possess no advantage over these, and have the disadvantage of dis- 
turbing the sufferer. Should the patient's face be very pale, and signs of 
fainting appear, camphor or ammonia should be applied to the nostrils, and 
a little brandy or wine be given. 

Then the room should be made as quiet as possible and every means 
used to invite " Nature's sweet restoi-er," sleep. We know the popular idea 
is that patients suffering from any injury to the head should be kept awake 
by all means; and it is mainly to combat this erroneous notion that we are 
prompted to write out these directions. 

No injury— or degree of injury — of the head contraindicates the sufferer's 
sleeping. In fact positive harm may be done in trying to prevent sleep. 
Rest is what the brain and blood vessels want more than any other thing; 
and, if not allowed, what would have jDassed off in a few hours or days may 
be prolonged into mflammatiou, with all its dangerous consequences. 

Of course the air of the room should be kept pure — windows and doors 
• open if the weather permit — and the presence of persons not absolutely 
necessary forbidden. 

Cancer. — (1) The following is said to be a sure cure for cancer: A piece 
of sticking plaster is put over the cancer, with a circular piece cut out of the 
center, a little larger than the cancer, so that the cancer and a small circular 
rim of healthy skin next to it is exposed. Then a plaster, made of chloride 
of zinc, blood root and wheat flour, is spread on a piece of muslin, the size 
of this circular opening, and applied to the cancer for twenty-four hours. 
On removing it, the cancer will be found burned into, and appear of the 
color and hardness of an old shoe sole, and the circular rim outside of it 
will appear white and j^arboiled, as if scalded by hot steam. The wound is 
now dressed, and the outside rim soon separates, and the cancer comes out 
in a hard lump, and the place heals up. The plaster kills the cancer, so 
I that it sloughs like dead flesh, and never grows again. The remedy was 
discovered by Dr. King, of London, and has been used by him for several 
years with iinfailing success, and not a case has been known of the 
reappearance of the cancer when this remedy has been applied. 

(2) An old Indian cancer doctor in Oregon pronounces this a sure cure: 
Take common wood sorrel, bruise it on brass, spread it in the form of a 
poultice, and apply as long as the patient can bear; then apply bread and 
milk poultice until the patient can bear the wood sorrel again. Continue 
this until the cancer is drawn out by the roots. 

(3) Take the blossoms of red clover and make tea of them, and 
drink freely. It will care cancer in the stomach as well as on the 
surface. 



THE HOME PnYHlCIAN. 429 

Consumption. — (1) A correspondent in Canada writes this interesting 
and, perhaps, iiseful letter to Chambers' Journal: " Noticing an extract from 
the World of Science, in which a physician strongly recommends hot water 
in place of tea or coffee as a stimulant for the use of those requiring to study 
late at night, I would like to give my experience of it as a beneficial agent in 

consumption: Mrs. , one of a family a number of whose members had 

died of consumption, was, after severe exposure to a snow storm, seized with 
a serious cough and expectoration, accompanied with a loss of flesh. Ex- 
amination by a physician showed that one lung was seriously affected. She 
was wholly confined to her room, and everything that medical attendance 
and loving care could do to mitigate her s affering was done, but ineffectu- 
ally. The depressing night sweats continued, together with loss of rest h-om 
repeated fits of coughing. Losing all faith in medicine some six months ago, 
its use was wholly abandoned and the use of nourishing diet only continued. 
About ten weeks ago the patient's attention was directed to a newspaper 
paragraph recommending hot water as a remedy for consumption. Feeling 
that little harm could ensue from its use, she determined to test it. At the 
moment of retiring a large tumbler of hot water, in which the juice of a 
lemon had been mixed to free it from nausea, was taken. In a few mo- 
ments a glow of warmth would pervade the lungs, chest, etc., quickly fol- 
lowed by the most refreshing sleep, which would be unbroken by any cough, 
and the patient would awake in the morning rested and strengthened. A 
few days ago she was seized with a fit of coughing, during which was 
coughed up into her mouth a small stone about the size of a pea — formed of 
Bulphate of lime, I believe, and usually considered a symptom of the healing 
of a cavity in the lung." 

(2) A correspondent writes as follows about the flower of a well-known 
plant: " I have discovered a remedy for consumption. It has cured a num- 
ber of cases after they had commenced bleeding at the lungs and the hectie 
flush was already on the cheek. After trying this remedy to my own satis- 
faction, I have thought that philanthropy required that I should let it bo 
known to the world. It is common mullen, steeped strongly and sweetened 
with coffee sugar, and drank freely. Young or old plants are good, dried in 
the shade and kept in clean bags. The medicine must be continued from 
three to six months, according to the nature of the disease. It is very good 
for the blood vessels also. It strengthens and builds up the system instead 
of taking away the strength. It makes good blood and takes inflammation 
away from the lungs." 

(3) English physicians recommend the free use of lemons for consump- 
tion. It has long been known that they are excellent in the cure of rheuma- 
tism, and, fortunately, they are both cheap and grateful to the palate. A 
little sugar only should be used with them, and a dozen a day are none too 
many. 

Felons. — (1) Felons, which are usually termed " Whitlow " by physi- 
cians, we believe, are a very painful and often very serious affection of the 
fingers, generally of the last joints, and often near or involving the nails. As 
the fingers are much exposed to bruises, felons are quite common among 
those who constantly use their hands at hard work. If allowed to continue 
until matter (pus) foi-ms, and the periosteum or bone sheathing is affected, 
lancing is necessary; but if taken in time, a simple application of copal var- 
nish, covering it with a bandage, is highly recommended. If the varnish 
becomes dry and unpleasantly hard, a little fre«h varnish may be applied 



430 THE aoVf^EnOLD. 

from time to time. When a cure is effected, the varnish is easily removed 
by rubbing into it a Uttle lard and washing with soap and water. Dr. A. B. 
Ishani details, in Medical Xews, a number of cases of its application with 
uniform success, M-liere formations of pus had not previously occurred. In 
two cases there were apparently a combination of the " run-around" with 
a felon, and in all of them there was swelling, redness, heat, and great pain. 
He suggests the nsc of copal varnish for felons, run arounds, boils, and any 
local acute inflammations of external parts. 

(2) Take the root of the plant kno^vn as dragon root, Jack-in-the-pulpit 
or Indian turnip, either green or dry; grate about one-half a teaspoonful 
into four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk; simmer gently a few minutes, then ^ 
thicken ^^'ith bread crumbs, and ajjply as hot as possible. This can be heated 
again two or three times, adding a little milk each time. If the felon is just 
starting, this will drive it back; if somewhat advanced will draw it out 
quickly and gently. It is well to put a little tallow on the poultice, especially 
after opening, to prevent sticking. This same poultice is good for a car- 
buncle or anything rising. 

(3) Many persons are liable to extreme suffering fr-om felons on the fin- 
ger. The follo\ving prescription is recommended as a cure for the distress- 
ing ailment: Take common rock salt, such as is used for salting down pork 
or beef, dry it in an oven, then pound it fine and mix with spirits of turpen- 
tine in equal parts. Put it on a rag and wrap it around the part affected, 
and as it gets dry put on more, and in twenty-four hours you are cured — 
the felon is dead. 

(4) The following directions carefully observed, will prevent those cir- 
cular and osseous abominations, known as felons. As soon as the disease is 
felt, put directly over the spot, a fly blister, about the size of your thumb 
nail, and let it remain for six hours, at the expu'atiou of which time, directly 
under the surface of the blister, may be seen the felon, which can instantly 
be taken out with the point of a needle or lancet. 

(5) At first great relief is obtained by soaking the part in half a gill of 
strong vinegar, in which has been dissolved one tablespoonful of saleratus. 
Use it as hot as it can be borne, and repeat as often as the pain returns. A 
thimbleful of unslacked lime and soft soaji has cured some cases in a few 
hours. If matter forms, it had better be poulticed and lanced, or it will be 
painful from two to six weeks. 

(6) As soon as it makes its appearance apply a poultice, of equal parts 
of saltpeter and brimstone, mix with sufficient lard to make a paste, and 
renew as soon as it gets dry. A fev; applications will effect a cure. 

Dyspepsia. — (1) "We have seen dyspeptics who suffered untold torments 
with almost every kind of food; no liiniid could be taken without suffering; 
bread became a burning acid; meat aud milk were solid liquid fires; and we 
have seen their torments pass away, aud their hunger relieved by living on 
the white of eggs which have been boiled iu bubbling water for thirty min- 
utes. At the end of a week we have given the half yelk of the egg with the 
white, and upon this diet alone, without food of any kind, we have seen 
them begin to gain flesh and strength, and quiet, refreshing sleep. After 
weeks of this treatment they have been able, with care, to begin upon other 
food. And all this without taking medicine. Hard-boiled eggs are not half 
BO bad as half-boiled ones, and ten times aa easy to digest as raw eggs, even 
in egg-nog. 

(2) Milk HQd lime water is aaid to prove beneficial in dyspepsia and 



THE HOME PirrSICTAy. 431 

weakness of the stomach. The way to make the Ume water is simply to 
procure a few lumps of unslaked lime, put the lime in a fruit can, add water 
until it is slaked and of the consistency of thin cream; the lime settles, and 
leaves the pure and clear lime water at the top. A goblet of cow's milk may 
have six or eight tcaspoonfuls of lime water added with good effect. Great 
caro should he taken not to get tLo lime water too strong; pour off without 
disturbing the precipitated lime. Sickness of the stomach is promptly re- 
lieved by a teacupful of warm water with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved lu 
it. If it brings the offending matter up, all the better. 

(3) Dr. Nichols, who has made a scries of dietetic experiments on him- 
self, has aiTived at the conclusion that, if the stomach is allowed to rest, any 
case of dyspepsia may be cured; that the diet qiiestion was at the root of all 
diseases; that pure blood can only be made from pure food, and that, if the 
drink of a nation were pure and free from stimulating qualities, and the food 
was also pure, the result would be pure health. 

(4) In mild cases take one teaspoonful sweet oil, after eating, three times 
a day. In severe forms take a dessertspoonful. This followed up has cured 
cases where doctors have given them up. Ye who suffer from this dread 
disease, don't fail to try it; sui-ely it can't hurt you. 

(5) Burn alum until the moisture in it is evaporated, then take as much 
as you can put on a dime, about half an hour before eating. Three or four 
days probably will answer; but take it until cured. 

Dysentery. — (1) Dysentery, or inflammation of the great intestine, pre- 
vails in the autumnal season more particularly, and in low-lying and marshy 
districts. It occasionally occurs also as an epidemic in overcrowded insti- 
tutions and unhealthy localities. Treatment: Dysentery attacks those soon- 
est whose blood is impoverished and whoso vital powers are generally de- 
pressed from some cause — a fact which suggests a building-up plan of treat- 
ment. Although dysentery commences in the great intestine, the Uver soon 
becomes secondarily affected, and it, therefore, behooves the patient to be 
very cautious as to the amount of stimulation he subjects himself to; malt 
liquors and spirits are not permissable. His food, too, must be of the light- 
est kind. The following medicines will be found most useful: Castor-oil 
mixture: Take of castor-oil, six drachms; compound powder of tragacanth, 
one ounce; cinnamon water, six ounces. Take a sixth part three times a 
day. The nitric acid mixture: Take of dilute nitric acid, two di'achma; 
spirit of chloroform, two drachms; tincture of opium, half a drachm; pepper- 
mint water, six ounces. Take two tablespoonfuls every four hours. With 
either of the above mixtures a powder containing three grains of ipecacuanha 
and six gi-ains of sugar may be taken every night and morning. Ipecacuanha 
becomes an invaluable medicine in dysentery, by virtue of the sijecific power 
it exerts on all mucous membranes in causing increased action of their mu- 
cous folhcles; and thus it is that it gives so much relief to the dysenteric 
patient, in whom the dry and, perhaps, ulcerated surface of the intestine is 
Boothed and lubricated by an increased flow of mucus. 

(2) The egg is considered one of the best of remedies for dysentery. 
Beaten up sUghtly, with or without sugar, and swallowed at a gulp, it tends, 
by its emolUent qualities, to lessen the inflammation of the stomach and in- 
testine, and, by forming a transient coating on these organs, to enable nature 
to resume her healthful sway over a diseased body. Two, or at mest threo 
«ggs per day, would be all that is required in ordinary cases, and since egg 
is not merely modiciue but food aa wwll, the lighter the diet otherwiae 



432 THE IIOUSEnOLB. 

and the quieter the pp^tient is kept the more certain and rapid ia the 
recovery. 

(3) Take one pint of best wine vinegar, and add half a pound of best loaf 
Bugar. Simmer them together in a pewter vessel, with a pewter top. Let 
the patient drink this during the day — a small quantity at a time — eithe" 
clear, or diluted with water. 

Diplitlieria. — (1) Dr. Choncry, of Boston, has lately discovered that 
hyposulphite of soda is the specific remedy against diphtheria, that so much 
dreaded ailment, which of late yeai's has carried otf many valuable lives. 
He reports a very large number of cases saved bj' the use of this remedy. 
The dose of the hj'posulphite is from five to fifteen grains or more in syrup, , 
every two to four hours, according to age and circumstances. It can do no 
harm, but if too much is given it will purge; as much as the patient can 
bear without purging is a good rule in the severer cases. The solution or 
mixture can be used in doses of five drops to half a drachm in milk. The 
amount for thorough stimulation is greater than can be taken in water. The 
doctor iisually gives it in such doses as can bo easily taken in milk, using 
milk besides as a food for small children. One fact, however, needs to be 
borne in mind, namely, the hyposulphite prevents the digestion of milk, and 
it should not be given in less than an hour after taking the medicine. They 
may be used alternately, however, without interference, in sutficiently fre- 
quent doses. 

(2) The treatment consists in thoroughly swabbing the back of the 
mouth and throat with a wash made thus: Table salt, two drachms; black 
pepper, golden seal, nitrate of potash, ahim, one drachm each. Mix and 
pulverize, put into a teacup half full of water, stir well, and then fill up with 
good vinegar. Use every half hour, one, two, and four hours, as I'ecovery 
progresses. The patient may swallow a little each time. Apply one ounce 
each of spirits of tiirpentine, sweet oil, and aqua ammonia, mixed, every 
hour, to the whole of the throat, and to the breast bone every four hours, 
keeping flannel to the part. 

(3) A correspondent writes that he has used the following remedy for 
diphtheria in a great many hard cases, and in not one has it failed to effect 
a cure. It is as follows: Procure some pitch tar— not gas tar — put a Uttle 
on a hot iron, invert funnel over the smoke, and let the patient inhale as 
much as he can for a few minutes five or six times a day. During the 
intervals let the patient have email pieces of ice to keep as near the root of 
the tongue as possible. 

(4) In France lemon juice is in high repute as a remedy for diphtheria. 
Aa a local application it is ijreferred to chlorate of potash, nitrate of silver, 
perchloride of iron, alum or lime water. It is ixsed by dipping a little plug 
of cotton wool twisted around a wire in the juice, and pressing it against the 
diseased surface four or five times daily. 

(5) A gargle of sulphur and water has been used with much success in 
cases of diphtheria. Let the patient swallow a little of the mixture. Or, 
when you discover that your throat is a little sore, bind a strip of flaimel 
around the throat, wet in camphor, and gargle salt and vinegar occa- 
Bionally. 

(6) Take a common tobacco pipe, place a live coal ■n'ithin the bowl, drop 
a little tar upon the coal, and let the patient draw smoke into the mouth, 
and discharge it through the nostrils. The remedy is safe and simple, and 
should be tried whenever occasion may require- 



TITE HOME PHYSICIAN. ' 433 

Croup. — ^There are various remedies for this enemy in the nursery. As 
in other diseases, prevention is better than cure. Ctdldren liable to croup 
should not play out of doors after three o'clock in the afternoon. If a woolen 
shawl is closely pinned around the neck of the patient when the first symp- 
toms of croup appear the attack may bo diminished in power. The child 
struggling for breath naturally throws its arms out of bed to breathe through 
its pores, and thus takes more cold and increases its trouble. Bi-chromate 
of i>otassa in minute doses — as much as will rest on the point of a penknife — 
given every half hour till relief is obtained, is the best remedy we have ever 
tried. Mustard plasters on the ankles, wrist and chest will draw the blood 
from the throat and relievo it. cloths wrung from hot water and placed about 
tho'chest and throat and wrapjjed with flannel, give relief. A teaspoonful of 
alum pulverized and mixed mth twice its quantity of sugar, to make it 
palatable, mil give almost instant help. Another remedy ia the following: 
Take equal parts of soda or saleratus and syrup or molasses; mix and give 
a teaspoonful for a child two years, larger doses for older children, smaller 
for nursing babies. Eepeat the doses at short intervals until the phlegm is 
all thrown up, and upon each recurrence of the sj'mptoms. Or, grate a raw 
onion, strain out the juice, and to two parts of the juice put one part of castor 
oQ; keep it well corked in a bottle, shake well, give one teaspoonful once in 
two or three hours. Or, take two parts sweet lard and six parts pulverized 
sugar, mix thoroughly, and give a teaspoonful every fifteen minutes until 
relief is obtained. Among the many remedies given we hope that one or 
more may be available to every mother who needs aid in this matter. 

Diarrhoea. — (1) It is said the small plant commonly known by the name 
rupturewort, made into tea, and drank frequently, is a sure cure for diar- 
rhoea. Rupturewoi't grows in nearly every open lot, and along the roads. 
It is a small plant, throwing out a number of shoots in a horizontal direction, 
and lying close to the ground, something similar to the manner of the pus- 
leyweed, and bears a small, dai'k green leaf, with an oblong, purple spot in 
the center. When the stem is broken, a white milky substance will ooze 
from the wound. It is very palatable, and infants take it as readily as any 
drink. This is an old Indian cure, and may be relied on. The botanical 
name of this i^lant is Eaphrohia Macnlaia. 

(2) Blackberry cordial is said to be almost a specific for summer com- 
plaint or diarrhoea. From a teaspoonful to a wineglass is to be taken, ac- 
cording to the age of the patient, until relieved. Following is a recipe for 
making blackberry cordial: To two quarts of juice add one pound of white 
sugar; half ounce nutmeg, half ounce cinnamon, pulverized; half ounce 
cloves, pulverized. BoU all together for a short time, and when cold add a 
pint of brandy. 

(3) Take Indian corn, roasted and ground in the manjier of coflfee, or 
coarse meal browned, and boil in a sufficient quantity of water to produce a 
strong liquid, like cofifee, and drink a teacupful warm, two or three times a 
day. One day's practice, it is said, will ordinarily effect a cure. 

(4) The ingredients are: Sulphate of morphia, one grain; Glauber salts, 
quarter of an ounce; water, two ounces. Dose: A teaspoonful twice a day. 
If attended with much pain and looseness, administer this medicine every 
two hours. 

(5) A strong solution of bicarbonate of soda (baking soda) taken fre- 
quently is a reliable remedy for diarrhoea troubles, particularly those aris« 
ing from acidity of the stomacli. 



434 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

Corns— (1) For eoft corns eoak the feet well in hnt water before go- 
ing to bed, then pare clown the corn, and, after having just moistened it, rub 
a little lunar caustic on the corn and just around the edge, till it turns hght 
gray. By the next moruiDg it will be black, and when the burnt skin peels 
off it will leave no vestige of the com underneath. Of course, the com is 
liable to return, but not for some length of time. Or, scrape a bit of com- 
mon chalk, and put a pinch of the powder on the corn at night, binding a 
piece of linen round. Repeat this for a few days, when the com will come 
off in little scales. 

(2) Take quarter cup of strong vinegar, crumb finely into it some bread. 
Let stand half an hour, or until it softens into a good poultice. Then apply, 
on retiring at night. In the morning the soreness will be gone and the com 
can be picked out. If the corn is a very obstinate one, it may require two 
or more applications to effect a cure. 

(3) To cure corns, take a lemon, cut a piece of it off, then nick it so as to 
let in the toe with the corn. Tie this on at night so that it cannot move, 
and you will find the next morning that, with a blunt knife, the com will 
come away to a great extent. Two or three applications will effect a thor- 
ough cure. 

(4) For soft corns dip a piece of linen cloth in turpentine and wrap 
it around the toe on which the corn is situated, night and morning. 
The relief will be immediate, and, after a few days, the corn will die- 
appear. 

(5) Soft corns can be cured by this corn salve: Boil tobacco down to an 
extract, then mix with it a quantity of white pitch pine, and apply it to the 
corn, renewing it once a week until the corn disappears. 

(6) Boil a potato in its skin, and after it is boiled take the skin and put 
the inside of it to the corn, and leave it on for about twelve hours; at the end 
of that period the corn will be nearly cured. 

(7) Macerate the tender leaves of ivy in strong vinegar for eight or ten 
days, then apply to the corns by means of cloths or hnt saturated with the 
liquor. In a few days the corns will drop off. 

liiquor Appetite— (1) Dr. Uuger insists that the following remedy will 
cure the cravings of the worst drunkard in the land: Take one pound of 
best, fresh, quill red Peruvian bark, powder it, and soak it in one pint of 
diluted alcohol. Afterward strain and evaporate it down to half a pint. 
Directions for its use: Dose— a teaspoonful every three hours the first and 
second day, and occasionally moisten the tongue laetween the doses. It acts 
like quinine, and the ijatient can tell by a headache if he is getting too much. 
The third day take as previous, but reduce the dosa to one-half teaspoonful. 
Afterward reduce the dose to fifteen drops, and then down to ten, then down 
to five drops. To make a cure it takes from five to fifteen days, and in ex- 
treme cases thirty days. Seven days are about the average in which a cure 
can be effected. 

(2) At a festival of one of our reformatory institutions, a gentleman is I'O- 
ported to have said: " I overcame the appetite for liquor by a recipe given 
to me by old Dr. Hatfield, one of those good old physicians who do not have 
a percentage from a neighboring druggist. The 'prescription is simply an 
orange every morning half an hour before breakfast. ' Take that,' said the 
doctor, 'and you will want neither liquor nor medicine.' I have done so 
regularly, and find that liquor has become i-epulsive. The taste of the 
orange is it the saliva of my tongue; and it would be as well to mix water 



THE HOME PEYSICIAN. 435 

and oil as rum with my taste." The recipe is simple, and has tha recom- 
mendation that it can do no harm if it does uo good. 

(3) "Hhe following recipe lias been found efficacious in a great many 
cases: Sulphate of iron, five grains; peppermint water, eleven drachms; 
spirits of nutmeg, one drachm. This preparation acts aa a tonic and stimu- 
lant, and so partially supplies the place of the accustomed liquor, and pre- 
vents the absolute physical and moral prostration that often follov/s a sudden 
breaking off from the use of stimulating drinks. It is to be taken in quanti- 
ties equal to an ordinary drachm, and as often as the desire for a drachm 
returns. 

Coughs and Colds. — (1) An old-foshioned remedy for a cold: A warm 
" stew," getting into bed with covering well tucked in, hot bricks to feet, 
and drinking abundantly of hot teas until there is a dripijing perspiration, to 
be kept up an hour or two or more until the system is reUeved, and then to 
cool off very gradually in the coiarse of another hour, is derisively styled 
" an old woman's remedy "; but for all that it will break uj) any cold taken 
within thirty-six hours; it will promptly relieve many of the most painful 
forms of sudden disease, M'ith the advantage of being without danger, gives 
no shock to the system, nor wastes its strength. 

(2) Borax has proved a most effective remedy in certain forms of colds. 
In sudden hoarseness or loss of voice in public speakers or Gingers, from 
colds, relief for an hour or so may be obtained by slowly dissolving, and 
partially swallowing, a lump of borax the size of a garden pea, or about 
three or foiir grains held in the mouth for ten or fifteen minutes before 
speaking or singiug. This produces a profuse secretion of saliva, or "water- 
ing " of the mouth and throat, just as wetting brings back the missing notes 
to a flute when it is too dry. 

(3) The following remedy, communicated by a Russian, as the usual 
mode of getting rid of those complaints in that i^art of Russia from whence 
he came, is simple, and we can, from experience, also vouch for its efficacy. 
It is no other than a strong tea of elder flowers, sweetened with honey, 
cither fresh or dried. A basin of this tea is to be drank as hot as possible, 
after the person is warm in bed ; it produces a strong perspiration, and a 
alight cold or cough yields to it immediately, but the most stubborn requires 
two or three repetitions. 

(i) To a pint and a half of water, add two large poppy-heads, and two 
lai'ge lemons. Boil them till they are soft, press the lemons into the water, 
strain the Uquor, and add half a drachm of saff"ron, and half a pound of 
brown sugar-candy, pounded. Boil all together till the sugar-candy is dis- 
solved; stir the whole till you perceive it will jelly; strain it a second time, 
and take the seeds from the poppies. 

(5) Put five cents' worth of pine pitch into a pint of water. Let it sim- 
mer until the water is well impregnated with the flavor. Dip out the gum 
which remains undissolved and add honey enough to sweeten and make a 
thick syrup. Strain this and bottle. Dose, a teaspoonful four or five times 
a day, accordiug to the severity of the cough. It will afford speedy relief. 

(6) Take two ounces of balm of gilead buds, the fi-eshest you can procure, 
and boil them vei-y slowly in a quart of water. Let it simmer down to one 
pint, then straia it, and then add one pound of honey in comb, with the juice 
of three lemons. Let them all boil together until the wax in the honey is 
dissolved. This has been known to cure a cough of long standing. 

(7) Melt some resin at night on going to bed, and let the smoko from ii 



436 THE HOUSEnOLB. 

fill the room. Inhaling the smoke heals the inflammation, and sleep is often 
produced when one could not sleep before for much coughing. Presevere 
until a cure is effected. A change for the better should be felt within a 
week. 

(8) For colds, coughs, croup, or lung fever, take lard or sweet oil, two 
parts; coal oil, two parts; spirits of camphor, one pai-t; spirits of turpentine, 
one part; saturate flannel and apply to the throat and chest warm. 

Cold in the H«Mid. — (1) This may sometimes be cured by inhaling 
through the nose the emanations of ammonia contained in a smelling bottle. 
If the sense of the smell is completely obliterated, the bottle should be kept 
under the nose until the pungency of the volatile alkali is felt. The bottle 
is then removed, but only to be reapplied after a minute; the second appli- 
cation, however, should not be long, that the patient may bear it. This easy 
operation being repeated seven or eight times in the course of five minutes, 
but always very rapidly, except the fii'st time, the nostrils become free, the 
sense of smell is restored, and the secretion of the irritating mucous 
is stopped. This remedy is said to be peculiarly advantageous to 
singers. 

(2) A cold in the head can be ciired at once, if taken care of at the very 
beginning. Dissolve a tablespoonful of borax in a pint of hot water; let it 
stand until it becomes tepid; suufi" some up the nostrils two or three times 
during the day, or use the dry, powdered borax like snuff, taking a pinch as 
often as required. At night have a handkerchief saturated with spirits of 
camphor, place it near the nostrils so as to inhale the fumes while 
sleeping. 

(3) A hot lemonade is one of the best remedies in the world for a cold. 
It acts promptly and effectually, and has no unpleasant after effects. One 
lemon properly squeezed, cut in slices, put with sugar, and covered with half 
a pint of boiling water. Drink just before going to bed, and do not expose 
yourself on the following day. This remedy will ward off an attack of chills 
and fever if used properly. 

(4) 'N^Tien one has a bad cold and the nose is closed up so that he cannot 
breathe through it, reUef may be found instantly by putting a little camphor 
and water in the center of the hand and snufling it up the nose. It is a great 
relief. 

CataiTU._^(l) Oi'dinary cases of catarrh can be cured by snuffing up the 
nose a little table salt three or four times a day; but many cases of this 
troublesome complaint are caused by inability of the liver to perform its 
function properly. In such cases there is often a too alkaline condition of 
the blood. If persona thus afflicted wUl squeeze the juice of a good-sized 
lemon into a half-tumbler of water, and drink it without sugar just before 
dinner, they vnW, if they Hve abstemiously, be surprised to see how soon 
the catarrhal difficulty will diminish. When it fails to do so, it may be con- 
sidered as due to other causes. 

(2) The catarrh, writes a correspondent, can be cured by a daily use of 
raw onions as an article of food; at the same time use a snuff luade of white 
sugar, laundry starch, and burned alum, pulverized and mixed in equal 
quantities— to be used the same as other snuff. 

(3) A most unfailing remedy for catarrh is to smoke crushed cubeb ber- 
ries in a clay pipe and swallow the smoke. They can be procured at anj 
drug store, at a moderate cost. Try it, 



■ Till: ItOME PHYSICIAK. 437 

(4) Put one tablespoonful of iodc-bromide of calcium comp. into a tea- 
Cupful of warm water. Snuff it up the nose night and morning. It ia very- 
cleansing and healing. 

(5) Bum a piece of alum on the stove until it becomes a white powder, 
and use it as a snuflf, and it will cure catarrh and is a good remedy for cold 
in the head. 

(6) Take one pint of whiskey, and add two ounces of sulphur; shake it 
up and take a tablespoonful three mornings, then miss three; so proceed 
until taken up. 

Scarlet Fever — (1) Mr. Robert Christie, a San Francisoo journalist, 
suggests a remedy for the scarlet fever which he avers has invariably proved 
Buccessful. It is very simple, and lies within the reach of those whose 
limited means preclude them from employing the services of a physician. It 
is this: Take an onion, and cut it in halves; cut out a portion of the center, 
and into the cavity put a spoonful of saffron; put the pieces together, then 
wrap in cloth and bake in an oven until the onion is cooked so that the juice 
will run freely, then squeeze out all the juice, and give the patient a tea- 
spoonful, at the same time rubbing the chest and throat with goose gi-ease or 
rancid bacon, if there is any cough or soreness in the throat. In a short 
time the fever will break out in an eruption all over the body. All that is 
then necessary is to keep the patient warm, and protected from draught, and 
recovery is certain. Mr. Christie says he has been employing this remedy 
for many years, and never knew it to fail, when proper care Avas taken of the 
patient after its application. One family, in which there were five children 
down with the disease at one time, recently, used this simple remedy upon 
his telling them of it, and every one of the little ones recovered in a short 
time. 

(2) An eminent physician says he cures ninety-nine out of every hundred 
cases of scarlet fever, by giving the patient warm lemonade with giim arable 
dissolved in it. A cloth wrung out in hot water and laid upon the stomach, 
Bhould be removed as rapidly as it becomes cool. 

Ivy Poisoning — (1) Dr. Benjamin Edson, of Brooklyn, has had much 
experience with cases of poisoning by poison ivy, Rhus Toxicodendron. He 
is familiar with alkali and other washes usually employed in their treat- 
ment and considers them of little, if any, value. He has treated Kome severe 
cases, he states in the Medical Record, with fluid extract of gelsemium with 
uniformly the best results. As most of our readers know, gelsemium is the 
yellow jessamine of the South. The extract was employed in a wash made 
by mixing together a half drachm of carboUc acid, two drachms of the fluid 
extract of gelsemium, one-half ounce of glycerine and four ounces of water. 
With this cloths were kept moistened and applied to the parts aftected. Two 
drops of the fluid extract of gelsemium was also given internally every 
three hours. Some cases were also treated with the same mixture with 
the carbolic acid omitted, and these yielded no less promptly than the 
others. 

(2) Bathe the parts affected with sweet spirits of niter. If the blisters are 
broken so that the niter be allowed to penetrate the cuticle, more than a 
single application is rarely necessary, and even where it is only applied to 
the surface of the skin three or four times a day, there ia rarely a trace of 
the poison left next morning. 

(3) A wash made from the spotted alder is recommended for ivy poison- 



438 THE TTOtrSEnOLD. 

iug. Also the sloop watei* of a Llacksmitli'a trough aa a sure cure for poiison 
ivy, aud dogwood and strong salt and water as an antidote for the poisoning 
of sumach. 

Nose Bleed. — (1) Snuffing up powdered alum will generally control 
troublesome bleeding from the nose. It will also almost always step 
excessive hemorrhage from a cavity caused by the extraction of a tooth, by- 
being placed in it. 

(2) The best remedy for bleeding at the nose, as given by Dr. Gleaaon ia 
one of his lectures, is in the vigorous motion of the jaws, as if in the act of 
mastication. In the case of a child, a wad of paper should be placed in its 
mouth, and the child should be instructed to chew it hard. It is the motion 
of the jaws that stops the flow of blood. This remedy is so very simple that 
many will feel inclined to laugh at it, but it has never been known to fail iu 
a smgle instance, even in very severe cases. 

(3) Lint, dipped in the nettle juice and put up the nostiH, has beeu 
known to stay the bleeding of the nose when all other remedies have failed; 
fourteen or fifteen of the seeds, ground into powder and taken daily, wUl 
cure the swelling of the neck, known by the name of goitre, without iu any 
way injuring the general health. 

(4) Bleeding from the nose may be stopped by pressing the nostrils to- 
gether for some minutes. Ice applied to the bridge of the nose or nape of 
the neck; smiffing up into the nostrils ice-water, vinegar, or giim-arabic 
powder, are all of them available means to check the eff"usion. 

Baldness. — (1) A gentleman who had lost nearly all his hair after a very 
severe attack of fever, consulted a Trench physician of great reputed suc- 
cess as a hair restorer. The prescription given him was a drachm of homeo- 
pathic tincture of phosphorus to ono ounce of castor oil; the bare spot he 
rubbed two times weekly, for half an hour each time, after the skin of the 
head had been thoroughly cleansed with warm water without soap. The 
treatment was faithfully carried out about six months; the hair soon began 
to grow, and, in a year from the timo of following the doctor's advice, his 
head was as thoroughly covered as ever, the new hair being about two 
ehades darker than the old. 

(2) In two ounces of spirits of ■wine steep two drachms of cantharidea 
(pulverized) for a fortnight or three weeks, shaking it repeatedly during 
that time. Then filter it, and rub up one-tenth of the tincture so procured, 
with niae-tefiths of cold hog's lard. Scent it with a few drops of any kind of 
perfume, and rub it well into tho head every morning and evening. 

(3) Hair, removed by fevers and other sickness, ia made to grow by 
washing the scalp with a strong decoction of sago leaves once or twice a day. 

Small Fox. — (1) Tho following remedy for this loathsome disease is very 
simple, and on tho authority of a surgeon of tho British army of China, it ia 
said to be a thorough cure, even in extreme cases: When the preceding 
fever is at its height, and just before the eruption appears, the chest is 
rubbed with croton oil aud tartaric ointment. This causes the whole erup- 
tion to appear on that part of the body, to the relief of the rest. It also se- 
cures a full and complete eruption, and thus prevents the disease from 
attacking the internal organs. 

(2) The following will cure not only small pox, but also scarlet fever. It 
is harmless when taken by a person in health: Sulphate of zinc, one grain; 
foxglove (digitaUs), one grain; half a teaspoonful of sugar; mix with two 



THE HOME PBYSIClAN. 435- 

iablespoonfnls of water. When thoroughly mixed add four ounces of water, 
Take a spoonful every hour. Either diaease will disappear in twelve 
hours. For a child, smaller doses, accoi'diug to the age. If countries 
would compel theii* physicians to use this there would te no need of a pest 
house. 

(3) " I am willing to risk my reputation as a public man," wrote Edward 
Hine to the Liverpool Mercury, "if the worst case of small pox cannot bo 
cured in three days, simply by the use of cream of tartar. One ounce of 
cream of tartar, dissolved in a pint of water, drank at intervals when cold, 
is a certain never-failing remedy. It has cured thousands, never leaves a 
mark, never causes blindness, and avoids tedious lingering." 

Sleeplessness. — (1) Nervous persons, who are troubled with wakeful- 
ness and excitability, usually have a strong tendency of blood to the brain, 
with cold extremities. The pressure of the blood on the brain keeps it in a 
etimulated, or wakeful state, and the pulsations iu the head are often pain- 
ful. Let such rise and chafe the body and extremities with a brush or 
towel, or rub smartly with the hands, to promote cu'culation, and withdraw 
the excessive amount of blood from the brain, and they will fall asleep in a 
few moments. A cold bath, or a sponge bath and rubbing, or a good run, or 
rapid walk in the open aii-, or going up or down stairs a few times just before 
retiring, will aid in equalizing circulation and promoting sleep. These rules 
are simple and easy of application, in castle or cabin. 

(2) A little English work, " Sleep and How to obtain it," says that in- 
somnia i» not so dangerous as is commonly supposed, for the author knows 
an eminent man of letters who has suffered fi*om it for many years without 
injury. When a man begins to di-eam of his work he may know that he is 
under too great a mental strain. The author's plan of inducing sleep is to 
reckon up friends and acquaintances whose name begins with a certain 
letter. 

(3) If troubled with wakefulness on retiring to bed, eat three or four 
small onions; they mil act as a gentle and soothing narcotic. Onions aro 
also excellent to eat when one is much exposed to cold. 

Ring-worm— (1) Oil of paper made by burning a sheet of ordinary 
writing paper upon a plate, will ciire a ringworm, which is caused by con- 
tagion or some impurity in the blood; the oil will be seen after the paper is 
burned in the form of a yellow spot; this applied with the finger twice a day 
will in a very short time cure the worst of ringworms. 

(2) Tincture of iodine, painted over a ringworm, for three or four days in 
succession, will entirely cure it in a few days. It stains the skin considerably 
whenever it is applied, and this is the only objection to it. Those who 
object to this need not use it; they may keep the ringworm. The stain goes 
off in a few days. 

(3) Heat a shovel to a bright red, cover it with grains of Indian com, 
press them with a cold flat iron. They will bum to a coal and exude an oil 
on the surface of the flat iron, with which rub the ring, and after on» or two 
applications it will gradually disappear. 

("1) Make a curd by mixing alum and the white of an egg over a nre until 
it is the consistency of pomatum; spread over the ringworm. One or two 
applications should effect a cure. 

(5) Simple cerate, one pound; diluted siUpliuric acid, one-quarter of a 
pound. Mk and apply. 



440 TEE nOTTSEEOLD. 

(6) To one part of sulphuric acid add sixteen parts of water. Cbo » 
brush or feather, and apply it to the parts night and morning. If the solu- 
tion prove too strong, add a little more, water. If the irritation is excessive, 
^ply a little glycerine. Avoid the use of soap. 

Chilblains. — (1) SUce raw potatoes, with the skins on, and sprinkle 
over them a little salt, and as soon as the liquid therefrom settles in the 
bottom of the dish, wash with it the chilblains; one application is all that is 
necessary. 

(2) An unfailing remedy for chilblains: A solution of thirty grains of per- 
manganate of potassa in an ounce of pure water, to be applied thoroughlj 
with brush or swa^b, or in the form of a poultice. 

(3) Rub the part affected with brandy and salt, which hardens the feet 
at the same time that it removes the inflammation. Sometimes a third ap- 
plication cures the most obstinate chilblains. 

(4) To relieve the intense itching of frosted feet, dissolve a lump of alum 
in a little water, and bathe the part with it, warming it before the fire. One 
or two applications is sure to give relief. 

(5) Put the hands and feet once a week into hot water, in which two or 
three handfula of common salt have been thrown. This is a certain pre- 
ventive as well as a cure. 

(6) In the evening, before retiring, take salt and vinegar made as hot as 
can be borne on the parts affected; bathe with a small cloth, and do so until 
cured. 

(7) Mix together one ounce of turpentine and three-eighths of an ounce 
oi oil of sassafras. Apply the solution morning and evening. 

Costlveness. — (1) Bread and milk, though excellent for children in gen- 
eral, is not as good food for a costive child as bread made of corn-meal or 
graham flour. Wheat bread is not good for a veiy costive child. When 
medicine becomes necessary, a teaspoonful of magnesia dissolved in sweet- 
ened milk or water, and given morning and night, untU the bowels become 
regular, is usually sufficient. Purgatives should be carefully avoided, ex- 
cept for a disordered stomach, and then they become necessary. Well-ven- 
tilated sleeping-rooms, and frequent bathing, go further than most people 
suppose, toward keeping the body in a healthy conchtion. To mothers who 
nurse their infants, we say, if the mother is regular, the child will be, and 
the reverse. Therefore, instead of dosing a child with medicine, let' her diet 
lor the evil, and save her little one much suffering. A lady correspondent 
some time since wrote us: " I have used, with much beYiefit, the herb known 
as thoroughwort, prepared by putting the dried herb in water and letting it 
stand until it becomes bitter. A portion drank before each meal, has proved 
the best remedy for costiveness I ever used." 

(2) Common charcoal is highly recommended for costiveness. It may 
be taken either in tea or tablespoonful, or even larger doses, according to 
the exigencies of the case, mixed with molasses, repeating it as often as 
necessary. Bathe the bowels with pepper and vinegar. Or take two ounces 
of rhubarb, add one ounce of rust of iron, infuse in one quart of vrine. Half 
a, wineglassful every morning. Or take pulverized blood-root, one drachm; 
pulverized rhubarb, one drachm; Castile soap, two scruples. Mix and roll 
into thirty-two pills. Take one morning and night. By following these di- 
rections it may perhaps save you from a severe attack of piles, or some other 
kindred disease. 



THE HOME PRYSICIAJT. 441 

Cholera Morbus. — (1) The following is the recipe for the celebrated 
"Snn Cholera Mixture": Take eqnal parts of tincture of opium, tincture 
of capsicum, rhubarb, peppermint, and camphor, and mix. Dose from fifteen 
to twenty drops in four tablespoonfuls of water. Repeat the dose every half 
hour till relieved. This is also an excellent remedy for any ordinary laxity 
of the bowels, or summer complaint. In that case one dose, as above pre- 
Bcribed, twice in every 24 hours, will suffice for a cure, if taken in time. 

(2) For cholera morbus, take black pepper and grind it tolerably fine. 
Then put in a glass a tablespoonful of this and a tablespoonful of salt, and 
fill about half full with warm water, then fill iip the glass with good cider 
vinegar, and stir it up. Now take one tablespoonful, and then wait a little 
and take another, and keep on stirring and using it while the vomiting lasts. 
If one glass does not cure, try another. 

(3) (Said to be a certain cure). — The ingredients are: One glassfwl of 
West India rum, one glassful of molasses, one glassful of spring water, and 
three tablespoonfuls of ginger. Mix them altogether and take it. It is said 
to afford immediate relief. 

To Restore tUe Droiviiing. — The rules that ought to be observed in 
treating a person rescued from the water are few and simple. Dr. H. R. 
Silvester's methods of restoring the apparently dead or drowned — which 
have been approved by the royal medical and chirurgical society — are prac- 
tical, easily understood, and are in accordance with common sense. The 
one important point to be aimed at is, of course, the restoration of breathing, 
and the efforts to accomplish this should be persevered in until the arrival 
of medical assistance, or vintil the pulse and breath have ceased for at least 
an hour. Cleanse the mouth and nostrils; open the mouth; draw forward 
the patient's tongue with a handkerchief, and keep it forward; remove all 
tight clothing fi-om aboiit the neck and chest. As to the patient's position, 
place him on his back on a flat surface, inclined a little from the feet up- 
ward; raise and support the head and shoulders on a small, firm cushion or 
folded article of dress placed under the shoulder blades. Then grasp tho 
arms just above the elbows, and draw the arms gently and steadily upward, 
until they meet above the head (this is for tho purpose of drawing air into 
the lungs); and keep the arms in that position for two seconds. Then tiirn 
down the patient's arms, and press them gently and firmly for two seconds 
against the sides of the chest (with the object of pressing air out of the lungs; 
pressure on the breast bone will aid this). Repeat these measures alter- 
nately, deliberately and perseveringly, fifteen, times in a minute, until a 
spontaneous effort to reapire is perceived, upon which cease to imitate the 
movements of breathing, and proceed to induce circulation and warmth. 
This may be done by wrapping the patient in dry blankets and rubbing the 
limbs upward, firmly and energetically. Promote the warmth of the body 
by the application of hot flannels, bottles of hot water, etc., to the pit of the 
stomach, the arm-pits, and to the soles of the feet. "Warm clothing may 
generally be obtained from a bystander. On the restoration of life, stimu- 
lants should be given, and a disposition to sleep encouraged. ' 

Bright's Disease — Dr. Alex. De Borra, of Crystal Springs, N. ¥., writes 
that, after years of practical test of the milk diet for Bright's disease, he has 
a long list of cases in which he has made perfect cures. Great care is taken 
to get absolutely pure skimmed milk, from healthy and well-fed cows, and 
no other food of any kind ia given after the patient can bear five pints of milk 



442 THE notlSEBOLD. 

a day. Up to this point, and until the stomach is able to take care of so 
much, is fouud to be the most trying period in this treatment, but no other 
medicine is given, and hand and hair-glove rubbing is daily administered. 

Another correspondent takes exception to the claim made that no drag 
of any therapeutic value in that disease has yet been discovered. In sup- 
port of his assertion he sends us a recipe which he claims has effected a 
cure in Bright's disease, as well as in dropsy, in every case in which it has 
been tried during the last fifteen years. He recommends the drinking of 
an infusion of the diy pods of the common white soup bean or com bean. 
When the latter cannot be readily obtained, the pods of the "snap short" 
bean will answer, and even the Lima bean, though the latter is of inferior 
strength. The recipe is as follows: " Take a double handful of the pods to 
three quarts of water; boil slowly for three hours until it is reduced to three 
pints. Use no drink of any kind but this, the patient drinking as much aa 
he conveniently can; it may be taken either hot or cold." 

Hot AVater as a Remedy — There is no remedy of such general apph- 
cation and none so easily attainable as water, and yet nine persons in ten 
will pass by it in an emergency to seek for something of far less efiScacy. 

There are but few cases of illness where water shoiild not occupy the 
highest place as a remedial agent. 

A strip of flannel or a napkm folded lengthwise and dipped in hot water 
and wrung out and then applied around the neck of a child that has the 
croup will usually bring relief in ten minutes. 

A towel folded several times and dipped in hot water and quickly wrung 
and applied over the seat of the pain iu toothache or neuralgia will generally 
afltbrd prompt relief. This treatment in colic works like magic. I have seen 
cases that have resisted other treatment for hours yield to this in ten min- 
utes. There is nothing that will so promptly cut short a congestion of the 
lungs, sore throat or rheumatism as hot water when applied promptly and 
thoroughly. 

Pieces of cotton batting dipped in hot water and kept applied to old sores 
or new cuts, bruises and sprains, is the treatment now generally adopted in 
hospitals. I have seen a sprained ankle cured in an hour by showering it 
with hot water, poured from a height of three feet. 

Tepid water acts promptly as an emetic, and hot water taken freely half 
an hour before bedtime is the best of cathartics in the case of constipation, 
while it has a most soothing effect on the stomach and bowels. This treat- 
ment continued for a few months, with proper attention to diet, will cure 
any curable case of dyspepsia. 

To Remove Superfluous Hairs. — Some few liairs will frequently grow 
where they are not wanted, and are often difficult to get rid of. Close shav- 
ing and cutting strengthens them and increases their number; the only plan 
is to pull them out individually with a pair of tweezers, and afterward to 
dress the part two or three times a day in the following manner: Wash it 
first with warm, soft water, but do not iise soap; then apply with a piece of 
soft rag, immediately after the washing, a lotion of milk of roses, made ac- 
cording to the following directions, and rub the skin gently till it is dry with 
a warm, soft cloth: Beat foi:r ounces of sweet almonds in a mortar to a paste 
with half an ounce of white sugar; then work in, in small quantities, eight 
•unces of rosewater; strain the emulsion through muslin, put the liquid into 
a bottle^ return the residuum to the mortar, pound it again, and add half an 



THE HOME PHYSICIAN. 443 

ounce of sugar and eight ounceg of rosewater; then strain again, and repeat 
the process a third time. This will give thirty-two ounces of fluid, to which 
add twenty grains of bichloride of mercury dissolved in two ounces of 
alcohol. Shake the whole for five minutes, and the lotion will be ready for use. 

CoiiTiUslons. — Dr. Williamson reports an interesting and remarkable 
case in which he saved the life of an infant in convulsions by the use of 
chloroform. He commenced the use of it at nine o'clock one evening, at 
which period the child was rapidly sinking, numerous remedies having been 
already tried without effect. He dropped half a drachm of chloroform into 
a thin muslin handkerchief, and held it about an inch from the infant's face. 
lu about two minutes the convulsions gave way, and the child fell into a 
sleep. By slightly releasing the child from the influence of the chloroform, 
he was able to administer food by which the child was nourished and 
strengthened. The chloroform was continually administered in the manner 
described, from Friday evening at nine o'clock until Monday morning at 
nme. This treatment lasted sixty hours, and sixteen ounces of chloroform 
were used. Dr. Williamson says he has no doubt that the chloroform waa 
instrumental in saving the infant's life; and that no injurious effects, how- 
ever tiivial, from the treatment adopted, have subsequently appeared. 

Mumps—This disease, most common among children, begins with sore- 
ness and stiffness in the side of the neck. Soon a swelling of the parotid 
gland takes place, which is painful and continues to increase for four or five 
days, sometimes making it difficult to swallow, or open the mouth. The 
swelling sometimes comes on one side at a time, but commonly upon both. 
There is often heat and sometimes fever, with a dry skin, quick pulse, 
furred tongue, constipated bowels, and scanty and high-colored urine. The 
disease is contagious. 

Treatment. — Keep the face and neck warm, and avoid taking cold. Drink 
warm herb teas, and if the symptoms are severe, four to six gi-ains of 
Dover's powder; or if there is costiveness, a slight physic, and observe a 
very simple diet. If the disease is aggravated by taking cold, and is very 
severe, or is translated to other glands, physic must be used freely, leeches 
applied to the swelling, or coohug poultices. Sweating must be resorted to 
in this case. 

To Ascei-tain the State of tl»e Lungs. — Draw in as much breath as 
you conveniently can, then count as long as possible in a slow and audible 
voice without drawing in more breath. The number of seconds must be 
carefully noted. In a consumptive the time does not exceed ten, and is fre- 
quently less than six seconds; in pleurisy and pneiimonia it ranges from 
nine to four seconds. When the lungs are sound the time Avill range as high 
as from twenty to thirty-five seconds. To expand the lungs, go into the aii-, 
stand erect, throw back the head and shoulders, and draw in the air 
through the nostrils as much as possible. After having then filled the 
lungs, raise your arms, still extended, and suck in the air. When you have 
thus forced the arms backward, with the chest open, change the process by 
which you draw in your breath, till the lungs are emptied. Go through the 
process several times a day and it will enlarge the chest, give the lungs 
better play, and serve very much to ward off consumption. 

Hysterics. — This complaint is confined chiefly to females. A fit of 
hyBterica is geueraxly the result of soiae natural and immediate cause, and 



444 TEE HOnSEHOLB. 

until this is uiscoverod and removed, the patient will always be subject Ui 
fheee fits. When a person is seized with a fit the dress should be loosened, 
fresh air admitted, cold water dashed in the face, and salts or singed 
feathers applied to the nostrils. It consciousness does not then return, a, 
draught of sal-volatile and water should be given, and if the patient be still 
insensible, the temples and the nape of the neck should be rubbed with 
brandy. When hysterics can be traced to impaired natural action, equal por- 
tions of pennyroyal and woi-mwood should be steeped in boiling water, and 
suffered to simmer by the ire until the virtue of the herbs is extracted. II 
should then be allowed to cool, and half a pmt be taken twice or thrice z, 
day, succeeded on each occasion by a compound asafcstida pUl, until the 
desired relief is afforded. 

Colic. — (1) For the violent internal agony termed colic, take a teaspoon- 
ful of salt in a pint of water; drink and go to bed. It is one of the speediest 
remedies known. It will revive a person who seems almost dead from a 
heavy fall. 

(2) Phares's method of treating colic consists in invei'sion — simply in turn- 
ing the patient upside down. CoUc of several days' duration has been 
relieved by this means in a few minutes. 

(3) Dr. Tepliashin has recommended a thin stream of cold water from a 
teapot lifted from one to one and a half feet fi'oni the abdomen, in cases of 
coUc. He has seen it relieve pain when opium and morphia had failed. 

(4) A loaf of bread, hot from the oven, broken in two, and half of it 
placed iipon the bowels, and the other half opposite it upon the back, will 
rehfcve colic from whatever cause almost immediately. 

Tlie Earliest Sign of Consnmption. — A quick pulse and a short 
breath, continuing for weeks together, is the great alarm bell of forming 
consumption; if these symptoms are attended with a gradual falling off in 
flesh, in the course of months, there is no rational ground for doubt, 
although the hack of a cough may never have been heard. Under such cir- 
cumstances, there ought not to be an hour's delay in taking competent 
medical advice. 

The vast mass of consumptives die, not far from the ages of twenty-five; 
and this, in connection with another fact, that consumption is several years 
in running its course, suggests one of fhe most important practical conclu- 
eions yet announced, to wit: 

In the large majority of cases, the seeds of consumption are sown betweep 
the ages of sixteen and twenty-one years, when the steadily excited pulse 
and the easily accelerated breathing, may readily be detected by an intelli- 
gent and observant parent, and should be regarded as the knell of death, if 
not arrested, and yet it is easily, and uniformly done, for the spi^jrmeter will 
demonsti'ate the early danger, and the educated physician will be at no loss 
to mark out the remedy. 

The quick pulse and short breath go together; rather " easily put out of 
breath," is the more common and appropriate expression. 

Sciatica. — An English efficer, who served with distinction in the war 
with Napoleon, was once laid up in a small village in France, with a severe 
attack of sciatica. It so happened that at that time, a tinman was being 
employed at the hotel where he lodged, and that this tinman, having been 
himaelf a soldier, took an interest in the officer's case, and gave him th« 
care which in this instance succeeded immediately and forever, and which 



THE HOME PHYSICIAN. 145 

I am about to set down. It ia at any rate so simple as to be worth a trial: 
Take a moderate size potato, rather large than small, and boil it in one 
quai-t of water. Foment the part affected with the water in which the potato 
has been boiled as hot as it can be borne at night before going to bed; then 
crush the potato and put it on the affected part as a poultice. Wear this all 
aight and in the morning heat the water, which should have been preserved, 
ever again, and again foment the part with it as hot as can be borne. This 
treatment must be persevered with for several days. It occasionally re- 
quires to be continued for as much as two or three weeks, but in the shorter 
or longer time it has never yet failed to be successful. 

Biliousness—If the victims of this diseased condition will exercise duo 
care, they need not ransack creation for " anti-bilious pills." The bile does 
not belong in the stomach, but reaches there in consequence of improper 
food, too much of the oily, as butter, pork, lard, etc. The bile is nature's 
grand cathai-tic medicinO; passing from the liver in a direction to indicate 
that it is to pass on into the bowels, there to perform its important mission. 
When the liver is overtaxed by too much labor, or by the presence of too 
much greasy food, digestiun is impaired and the whole system becomes out; 
of order. 

If one would avoid bihousness, let him fast, passing over one or more 
meals. As soon as the " mouth tastes bad," the tongue is coated, the appe- 
tite flags— the best possible evidence that too much food has been taken — 
thus allowing nature to rally, the accumulated food to pass off, and the sys- 
tem be relieved. In nine cases out of ten, this fasting will remove the diffi- 
culty, save a fit of sickness, and cheat the doctor. Any quack nostrum that 
will do as much as fasting, would yield a fortune to the inventor. Many 
of them, however, if not most, increase disease, rather than improve 
health. 

Hints Abont Glasses. — Persons finding their eyes becoming dry and 
itching on reading, as well as those who find it necessary to place an object 
nearer than fourteen inches from their faces to read, need spectacles. Per- 
sons under forty years of age should not "wear glasses until the accommo- 
dating power of the eyes has been suspended and the exact state of refrac- 
tion determined by a competent ophthalmic surgeon. The spectacle glasses 
8old by peddlers and by jewelers generally are hurtful to the eyes of those 
■who read much, as the lenses are made of inferior sheet glass and not sym- 
metrically ground. No matter how perfectly the lenses may be made, un- 
less they are mounted in a suitable frame and properly placed before the 
e^'e, discomfort will arise from their prolonged use. 

Persons holding objects too near the face endanger the safety of their 
eyes, and incur the risk of becoming near sighted. 

The near sighted eye is an unsound eye, and should be fully corrected 
•with a glass, notwithstanding the fact it may need no aid for reading. The 
proper time to begin wearing glasses is just as soon as the eyes tire on being 
subjected to prolonged use. 

Nettle Rash—This disease takes its name from its being attended by 
an eruption similar to what is produced by the stinging of nettles. The 
causes of this complaint are by no means ob^^ous; but it seems to proceed 
either from the perspiration being checked, or ft-om some irritating matter 
in the stomach. In all cases there prevails considerable itching and some 
beat in the parts affected; and in soHie constitutions a slight degree of fever 



446 THE nOUSEnOLB. 

either precedes or attends the eruption. Its duration seldom exceeds three 
or four days. 

In some cases nettle rash is accompanied with large wheals or bumpa, 
which appear of a sohd nature, without any cavity or head, containing either 
water or other Huid. 

Haifa teaspoonful of magnesia, and the same quantity of cream of tartar 
mixed in half a teacnpful of milk, an hour before breakfast, and repeated as 
required, will be found very efficacious. 

Coffee and Typlioitl Fever— Dr. Guillasse, of the French navy, in a 
recent paper on typhoid fever, speaks of the great beneiit which has been 
derived from the use of coffee. He has found that no sooner have the pa- 
tients taken a few tablespooufals of it than their features become relaxed 
and they come to their senses; next day the improvement is such as to 
leave no doubt that the article is just the speciiic needed. Under its in- 
fluence the stupor is dispelled and the patient rouses from the state of som- 
nolency in which he has been since the invasion of the disease; soon, all the 
functions take their natural course, and he enters iipon convalescence. Dr. 
Guillasse gives to an adult two or three tablespoonfuls of strong black cofifee 
every two or three hoiirs, alternated with one or two teaspoonfuls of claret 
or Burgundy wine— a little lemonade or citrate of magnesia to be taken 
daily; after a while quinine. 

Ingro-wiiig Toe IVails — As this is a very painful malady, it may be 
worth a great deal to some of our readers to know that the trouble 
is not with the nail, but with the flesh, which gets pushed upon it, thereby 
becoming inflamed, and the inflammation and swelling are kept uj) by the 
presence of the nail, which then acts as a foreign body. To cure it, take the 
neighboring toe — which, by the way, is really the offender — and with it press 
the swollen flesh down and away from the nail, then bind the two firmly to- 
gether with adhesive strips, which may be had at any drug store. If the 
strips get loose, and the flesh slips i;p on the nail again, readjust the toes 
and put on fresh plaster until the flesh rehabituates itself to its former place. 

Abscess. — In some particulars an abscess resembles a large boil. There 
is an inflammatory condition, with heat, pain, and swelling. The result of 
this inflammation is the discharge of degenerated matter or pus. They may 
be opened as soon as pulsation is detected, the same as boils, or the opera- 
tion may be delayed imtil by using hot water compresses, flax seed poultice, 
bread and hot milk poultice, they come to a point or head. The matter or 
pus should be completely discharged by gentle pressure, and the cavity 
freely washed out by injecting a mixture of one part carbolic acid and twenty 
of warm water, and pressure exerted by a bandage, when heaUng will rap- 
idly take place. 

Blistered Hands or Feet — "When the bands are blistered from rowing 
or the feet from walking or other causes, be careful not to allow the blisters 
to break, if possible. Some persons are in the habit, by means of a needle 
and piece of worsted, of placing a seton into blisters to draw off the water; 
but in our opinion this is a great mistake and retards the healing. Bathe 
the blisters frequently in warm water, or if they are very severe, make a 
salve of tallow, dropped from a lighted candle into a little gin and worked 
np to a proper consistence, and on going to bed cover the blisters with this 
eaive and place a piece of clean soft rag over them, 



THE HOME PHYSICIAN. M7 

Stammering. — No stammeriDg person ever found anj- difficulty in aing- 
hig. The reason of this is, that by observing the measure of the muric— by 
keeping time— the organs of speech are kept in such position that eruiicia- 
tion is easy. Apply the same rule to reading or speech, aiid the s&nie result 
will follow. Let the stammerer take a sentence, say this one—" Leander 
Bwam the Holles'>)Out," and jirououuce it by syllables, scan it, keeping time 
with Ms finger if necessary, letting each syllable occupy the same time, 
thus, Le-an-der-s\vam-the-Hel-les-pont, and he will not stammer. Pro- 
nounce slowly at first, then faster, but still keeping time; keeping time with 
words instead of syllables. Practice this in reading and conversation until 
the habit is broken iip. Perseverance and attention is all that is necessary 
to perform a jjerfect cure. 

Hemorrliage. — (1) Hemorrhage of the lungs can be instantly cured by 
throwing into the mouth of the patient, from a vial, one or two teaspoonfuls 
of chloroform, according to the sWereness of the attack. It will give instant 
relief to the greatest suffering, and stop the most severe case of bleeding of 
the lungs. 

(2) To stop hemorrhage of the lungs, cord the thighs, and arm? 
above the elbow, with small, strong cords tightly drawn and tied. It will 
stop the flow of blood almost instantly, as it has done for the writer many 
times. It was recommended by a physician of experience. 

(3) Spitting or vomiting of blood may be stopped by sage juice mixed 
with a little honey. Take three teaspoonfuls, and repeat, if necessary, ig 
about fifteen minutes. 

(4) Hemorrhages of the lungs or stomach are promptly checked by small 
doees of salt. The patient should be kept as quiet as possible. 

Asttima. — (1) The asthma, writes a correspondent, maybe relieved, ii 
not cured, by the following treatment: " Biiy of the druggist five cents' 
worth of saltpeter, and get also a sheet or two of grayish paper, which drug- 
gists have, thick like the common brown paper. Dissolve the saltpeter in 
half a pint of rain water, and saturate strips of the paper in the water, and 
dry it in pans or on plates. Now roll them up like lamp lighters. When a 
paroxysm comes on, light one and inhale the fumes. If necessary throw a 
cloth or shawl over the head. If the saltpeter is very strong it may fuse a 
httle. If the paper described cannot be got, brown paper may be used in- 
stead, but the smoke of the former is purer." 

(2) The following mixture is recommended as a relief for the asthmatic: 
Two ounces of the best honey, and one ounce of castor oil mixed. A tea- 
spoonful to be taken night and morning. I have tried the foregoing with 
the best effect. 

Hydrophobia. _(1) Elecampane is a plant well known to most persons, 
and is to be found in many of our gardens. Immediately after being bitten, 
take one ounce of the root of the plant, the green root is perhaps preferable^ 
but the dried will answer, and may be found in our drug stores, slice or 
bruise, put in a pint of fresh milk, boil down to half a pint, strain, and when 
cold drink it, fasting at least six hours afterward. The next morning repeat 
the dose prepared as the last, and fhis will be sufficient. It is recommended 
that after each dose nothing be eaten for at least six hotirs. 

(2) The following is said to be a cure for hydrophobia: Take two table- 
gpoonfuls of fresh chloride of lime, mix it with one-half pint of water, and 
with this wash keep the wound constantly bathed and frequently renewed. 



448 THE HOTJSEBOLJ). 

The chloride gas posseeses the power of decomposing the tremendout 
poisoD, and renders mild and harmless that venom against whose resistless 
attack the artillery of medical science has been so long directed in vain. It 
is necessary to add that this wash must bo appUed as soon as possible. 

Scrofula._(l) Yellow dock root has proved very useful in scrofula. It 
is given in powder or decoction. Two ounces of the fresh root bruised, or 
one ounce of the dried, may be boiled in a jjiutof water, of which two fluid 
ounces may be given at a dose, and repeated as the stomach will bear. The 
root has also been api^hed externally ia the shape of ointment, cataplasm, 
and decoction, to the cutaneous eruptions and ulcerations for which it has 
been used internally. The powdered root is also recommended as a denti- 
frice, especially when tho gums are spongy. There is no doubt that in a 
great many cases the disease is inherited; some contend that it is so in aU 
cases. It showfi itself in various forms — as hip-disease, white swelling, 
rickets, salt rhci;m, etc. Persons affected by it are subject to swelling of 
the glands, particularly those of the neck. 

(2) A tea made of ripe, dried whortleberries, and drank in place of 
•water, is a sure and speedy cure for scrofula difBcultiea, however bad. 

Sickness of Stomach— (1) The following drink for relieving sickness 
of the stomach was introduced by Dr. Halahan, and is said to be very 
palatable and agreeable: " Beat up one a^^^ very well, say for twenty min- 
utes; then add fresh milk, one pint; water, one pint; sugar, to make it 
palatable; boil, and let it cool; diiuk when cold. If it becomes curds and 
whey it is useless. 

(2) Salts of tartar, thirty grains; oil of mint, six drops; powdered gum 
arable, eighth of an ounce; powdered loaf sugar, eighth of an ounce; water, 
six ounces. A tablespoonful of this mixture is a dose. 

(3) Sickness of the stomach is most promptly reheved by drinking a tea- 
cupful of hot soda and water. If it brings all the offending matter up all 
the better. 

Bronchitis. — (1) Get from the druggist's a little good wood creosote. 
Put two drops of it into a bottle holding a pint or so. Pour in a little more 
than half a pint of clear water, and shake it well; shake well always before 
TTsingit. Take a mouthful of this, throw the head back, gargle it some time 
in the throat, and then swallow it. Repeat this every two hours-, more or 
less, so as to use up the liquid within twenty-four hours. For each subse- 
quent twenty-four hours, use three drops of the creosote in three to four 
gills of water. This three drops a day may be continued as long as any 
bronchitis appears. Two to four days is usually enough, though it may be 
continued indefinitely without harm. 

(2) A simple, but oftentimes efficacious remedy, is this. It may afford 
relief: Syrup of tolu, one ounce; syrup of squills, half an ounce; wine of 
ipecac, two drachms; paregoric, three drachms; mucilage of gum arable, 
one and a half ounces. Mix. Take a teas'ooonful three times a day. 

(3) A simple recipe, which affords relief in ordinary cases of bronchitis, 
is to occasionally suck a small piece of common saltpetre as you would 
candy, and swallow the juice. If the case be severe, medical advice should 
be had without delay. 

l.oclija>v — (1) If any person is threatened or taken with lockjaw from 
hijuries of the ax-mSj lege or feet, do aot wait for % doctor, but put the part 



TRE HOME PBYSICIAN. 446 

injured in tl^a foUomng preparation: Put hot wood ashes into water aa 
warm as can be borne; if the injured part cannot be put into water, then wet 
thick folded cloths in the water and apply them to the part as soon as possi' 
ble, and at the same time bathe the backbone from the neck down with soma 
laxative stimulant — say cayerme pepper and water, or mustard and water 
(good vinegar is better than water^; it should be as hot as the patient can 
bear it. Don't hesitate; go to work and do it, and don't stop until the jaws 
will come open. No person need die of lockjaw if these directions are 
followed. 

(2) The following is said to be a positive cure: Let any one who has an 
attack of the lockjaw take a small quantity of spirits of turpentine, warm it 
and pour it on the wound, no matter where the wound is or what is its 
nature. Kehef will follow in less than one minute. Turpentine is also a 
sovereign remedy for croup. Saturate a piece of flannel with it and place on 
to the thi-oat, chest, and, in severe cases, three to five drops, on a lump of 
sugar may be taken internally. 

Erysipelas._(l) We have found sour milk, buttermilk, or whey there- 
from, an excellent remedy to apply for the erysipelas as a wash. Also to 
apply glycerine twice or three times a day; it has a soothing effect. We 
have many times applied the milk hot, and fouad it allayed the inflamma- 
tion better than cold applications, and far less troiiblesome than poultices. 

(2) Erysipelas is of two kinds — one affecting principally the skin, the 
other the whole system. In mild cases, affectipg the skin only, lemonade 
made from the fresh fruit helps the patient very much, beiug, in addition, 
very grateful to the palate. 

(3) As a local application, slippery elm has been found efficacious. Make 
a mucilage of it, and apply it warm on cloths to the face. Sometimes com- 
mon flour, dusted on the inflamed parts, will afford relief. 

(4) One pint of sweet milk and a handful of pokeberry roots. This is a 
6ure cure. 

(5) Make a poultice of cranberries, and apply to the face. 

Hoarseness— (1) Horseradish will afford instantaneous relief in most 
obstinate cases of hoarseness. The root, of course, possesses the most 
virtue, though the leaves are good till they dry, when they lose their 
strength. The root is best when it is green. The person who will use it 
freely just before beginning to speak, will not be tax)ubled with hoarseness. 
Boiled down and sweetened into a thick syrup, will give relief in the severest 
cases. 

(2), Take a small quantity of dry, powdered borax, place it on the 
tonguel let it slowly dissolve and run down the throat. It is also good to 
keep the throat moist at night and prevent coughing. 

(3) Hoarseness and tickling in the throat are best relieved by the gargle 
of the white of an egg beaten to a froth in half a glass of warmed, sweetened 
water. 

ChiUs and Fever._(l) One-half ounce spirits nitre, one-half ounce 
tincture pepper, thirty-flve grains quinine, one pint of brandy. Take a wine- 
glassful three times a day, one-half hour before meals. If for a child, give 
only half the quantity. 

(2) If you have chills and fever, express the juice of three large lemons 
and drink it down. Continue so to do every other day until the disease ia 
broken. We have known this treatment to cure wheu quiaine had no effect. 



450 ■ THE nOUSEHOLJ). 

(3) The following ia said to bo a remedy for fever and ague: Twenty-four 
grains of quinine, two drachms of elixir of vitriol, twenty-two large 
tablcspooni'ula of rain water. Dose, take each half hour through the day 
until taken up. 

(4) Dissolve fifteen grains of citric acid in a cup of hot coffee, and drink 
it just before the chill attacks you. It has been known to cure the worst 
cases of this disease. 

Dropsy. — (1) Take one pint of bruised mustard seed, two handfuls of 
bruised horseradish root, eight ounces of lignum vitae chips, and four ounces 
of bruised ludian hemp root. Pat all the ingredients in seven quarts of 
cider, and let it simmer over a slow fire until it is reduced to four quarts. 
Strain the decoction, and take a wiueglassful four times a day for a few days, 
increasing the dose to a small teacupful three times a day. After which use 
tonic medicines. This remedy has cured cases oi dropsy in one week's time 
which has baffled the skill of many eminent physicians. For children the 
dose should be smaller. 

(2) The ingredients are: Acetate of squills, one ounce; nitrate of potash, 
eixty grains; water, five ounces. Dose: A tablespoonful every two hours. 

(3) It is said that a tea made of chestnut leaves, and drank in the place 
of water, will cure the most obstinate case of drojjsy in a few days. 

Bunions. — (1) Let fall a stream of very warm water from a teakettle, at 
the highest elevation from which the patient can bear the water to fall di- 
rectly on the apex of the swelling: continue this once a day for a short time 
and a cure will be effected, jDroviding you desist from wearing short shoes. 
The greater the elevation of the kettle, the more effectual the remedy. 

(1) It is said that the following ia a good bunion remedy: Use pulverized 
saltpetre and sweet oU; obtain at the druggist's five or six cents' worth of 
saltpetre, put into a bottle vni\\ sufficient olive oil to nearly dissolve it; 
shake up well, and rub the inflamed joints night and morning, and more 
frequently if painful. This is a well-tried remedy. 

(3) When the bunion is painful, put three or four leeches on the joint of 
the toe, and do not disturb them till they drop off; then bathe the bunions 
twice a day in fresh cream, and afterward renounce tight boots. Of course 
this remedy will not remove the swelling of the bone. 

Fits. — (1) When these are brought on by indigestion, place the child in a 
warm bath immediately, give warm water, or a lobelia emetic, rub the skin 
briskly, etc., to get up an action. In brain disease the warm water is equally 
useful. In fact, unless the fit is constitutional, the warm bath wUl reheve 
the patient by drawing the blood to the surface. 

(2) Fits can be instantly cured by throwing a spoonful of fine salt as far 
back into the mouth of the patient as x^ossiblc, just as the fit comes on. 

Dandi-uir. — (1) A preparation of one ounce of sulphur and one quart of 
water, repeatedly agitated during intervals of a few hours, and the head 
saturated every morning with the-clear liquid, will, in a few weeks, remove 
every trace of dandruff from the scalj), and the hair will soon become soft 
and glossy. 

(2) There is no simpler or better remedy for this -^egetatious appearance 
(caused by dryness of the skin) than a wash of camphor and borax — an 
eunce of each put into a pint and a half of cold water} and afterward rub a 
iittle pure oil iato the scalp. 



THS HOME PETSIGIAN. ' 461 

Scurf. — A lump of fresh quicklime the size of a waluut, droyped into a 
pint of water and allowed to stand all night, the water being then poured off 
from the sediment and mixed with a quarter of a pint of the best vinegar, 
forms the best wash for scurf in the head. It is to be applied to the roots of 
the hair. 

(2) Haifa pint of rose-water, and one ounce of si)ii-itb of wine mixed to- 
gether. Part the haii' as much as possible, and apply the mixture with a 
piece of flannel. 

Q,uinsy. — (1) Our cure is tar spread on the throat and quite up under 
the ears. Cover with a cloth and go to sleep and wake up well. Only a 
brown stain will remain; it is easily washed off with castile soap. It is a 
sure relief. It is our opinion that in cases of incipient scarlet fever or diph- 
theria this is the remedy. It looks reasonable if it brings sure relief in 
quinsy, which it does. 

(2) A teacupful of red sage leaves to one quart of water, boil ten min- 
utes, add for • tablespooululs of vinegar, and sweeten with honey. In the 
first stage of th. hsease, it might be used as a gargle, and then to rmse the 
mouth; it should be iised warm. It will be found invaluable. 

To Prevent Hyclropliobia._(l) The bites of mad dogs have been ren- 
dered harmless by immediately cauterizing the wound with a saturated so- 
lution of carbolic acid, and keeping it constantly wet with a weaker solution 
of the same, at the same time giving the patient, according to age, from two 
to six drops of the spiiits of ammonia in water, every two hours for twelve 
or fourteen hours. The wound is not allowed to dry for an instant for three 
or four days. 

(2) Take immediately warm vinegar, or tepid water, and wash the wound 
very clean; then dry it, and pour upon the woiind a few drops of muriatic 
acid. IMineral acids destroy the poison of the saliva, and its evil effect is 
neutralized. 

Heartburii._(l) Relief will be obtained by using the following mixture, 
which has been much recommended: Juice of one orange, water, and lump 
sugar to flavor; and in proportion to the acidity of the orange, about half a 
teaspoonful of bi-cai'bouate of soda. Dissolve the sugar in the water, add 
the orange-juice, then put in the soda. Stir, and drmk while effervescing. 

(2) A small piece of chalk put in a pitcher of watei-, without imparting 
any taste whatever to the same, will exercise a corrective effect upon the 
stomachs of those who are troubled with acidity or heartburn, as it ia 
called. 

Inflammatory Rheumatism. — (1) Sulphur and saltpeter, of each one 
ounce; gum guaiacum, one-fourth ounce; colchicum i-oot, or seed, and nut- 
megs, of each one-fourth ounce; all to be pulverized and mixed with sim- 
ple syrup, or molasses, two ounces. Dose: One teaspoonful every two 
hours until it moves the bowels rather freely; then three or four times da-ily 
until cured. 

(2) Half an ounce of pulverized saltpetre put in a half a pint of sweet oil; 
bathe the parts affected, and a sound cure will speedily be effected. 

Stye on tlie Eyelid. — (1) Put a teaspoouful of tea in a small bag; pour 
on it just enough boiUng water to moisten it; then put it on the eye pretty 
warm. Keep it on all night, and in the morning the stye will most likely bo 
gone; if not, a second application ijs sure to removd it. 



452 THE nOUSEHOLD. 

(2) Ice will check at first; if they do not suppurate quickly, apply warm 
poultices of bread and milk; prick them and'apply citrine ointment. 

(3) Dip a feather in the white of an egg, and pass it along the edge of the 
eyelids. 

To Purify the Blood. — (1) A well-known physician says that he con- 
eiders the following prescription for purifying the blood as the best he has 
ever used: One ounce yellow dock, one-half ounce horseradish, one quart 
hard cider. Dose, one wineglassful four times a day. 

(2) Mix half an ounce sulphate of magnesia with one pint water. Dose, 
a wineglassful three times a day. This can be used in the place of iron 
tonic, or in connection with it. 

For Liver Complaint. — (1) Twenty grains of extract of dandelion, di- 
vided into four pills, and to be taken four times a day; it acts on the liver, 
and is also a tonic for debilitated persons. 

(2) A cup of fresh buttermilk every day is said to be a cure for liver 
complaint. 

Cramps. — A correspondent gives the following directions for the rehef of 
cramps: When the cramp is in the calf of the leg, draw up the foot 
Btrongly toward the shin bone, and in a few seconds the cramp will disap- 
pear. When they are in the thighs or arms, tie a towel, cord, or handker- 
chief around the limb, just above the cramped part, and then rub this part 
with the naked hand alone, or using some stimulating liniment like spirits 
of camphor or red-peppered whiskey. The preparation may also be rubbed 
upon the neck when cramps attack this part. Cramps in the stomach may 
be checked by first strongly rubbing and kneading over the stomach, and 
then rubbing upon and around the pit of the stomach a mixture of equal 
parts of sweet oil or linseed oil, essence of peppermint, laudanum, and 
spirits of camphor. 

Petroleum in Pulmonary Diseases. — A partial investigation has been 
made of the alleged utility of this article in affections of the chest. The pe- 
troleum of Pennsylvania and Virginia was first experimented upon — a very 
safe substance, for even considerable quantities, when swallowed by error, 
have caused only a little nausea. It is found that in chronic bronchitis, 
with abundant expectoration, it rapidly diminishes the amount of secretion 
and the paroxysms of coughing, and in simple bronchitis rapid amelioration 
has been obtained. Its employment in phthisis has been continued for too 
short a time, as yet, to allow of any judgment being formed as to its 
efficiency, beyond that it diminishes the expectoration, which also loses its 
purulent character. The petroleum is customarily taken in doses of a tea- 
spoonful before each meal, and, after the first day, any nausea which it may 
excite in some persons disappears. 

Corpulence. — For those people whose fleshiness is a matter of solicitude, 
whether because it is uncomfortable or unfashionable, the following diet is 
proposed by Dr. George Johnson: May eat — Lean mutton and beef, veal and 
lamb, soups not thickened, beef tea and broth; poultry, game, fish, and 
eggs; bread in moderation, greens, cresses, lettuce, etc., green peas, cab- 
bage, cauliflower, onions; fresh fruit without sugar. May not eat — Fat 
meat, bacon or ham, butter, cream, sugar, potatoes, carrots, parsnips, rice, 
sago, tapioca, macaroni, custard, pastry and puddings, oweet cakes. May 



TITE HO ME PBYSIGIAN. 453 

drink — ^Tea, coffee, cocoa from nibs, with milk, but no sugar; dry wines in 
moderation without sugar; light bitter beer, soda and seltzer water. May 
not drink— Milk, except sparingly; porter and stout, sweet ales, sweet wines. 
As a rule, alcoholic liquors should be taken sparingly, and never without 
food. 

Salt ill Intermittent Fever. — Take a handful of table salt and roast 
in a clean oven with moderate heat till it is brown- the color of roasted cof- 
fee. Dose for an adult, a soupspoonful dissolved in a glass of warm water; 
take at once. When the fever appears at intervals of two, three, or four 
days, the remedy should be taken fasting on the morning of the day follow- 
ing the fever. To overcome the thirst, a very little water should be taken 
through a straw. Durmg the forty-eight hours which follow the taking of 
the salt, the appetite should be satisfied with chicken and beef broth only; 
it is especially necessary to observe a severe diet and avoid taking cold. 
The remedy is very simple and harmless, and has never been known to fail 
where it has been given trial. 

Colic in Infants. — Infants are very subject to colic from overfeeding, 
too early feeding, constipation, and many other causes. They often suffer 
terribly from these pains, tossing about, drawing up their legs, and scream- 
ing vehemently. Trealment. — When it arises from costiveness, a teaspoon- 
ful or tablespoonful of castor oil will often remove the defect, and at or 
about the same time give three drops of essence of peppermint or spearmint, 
in a little sweetened water. A very little saleratus often gives relief, and 
paregoric in two to five-drop doses every hour, will give relief. Hot flannels 
applied over the bowels and stomach are useful, and often the infant can be 
greatly relieved by laying it upon the belly on the knee, ti'otting it and gen- 
tly tapping its back; this must be done cautiously, for if unsuccessful it 
might increase the pains. 

Ho-w People Get Sick. — Eating too much and too fast; swallowing im- 
perfectly masticated food; using too much fluid at meals; drinking poison- 
ous whiskey and other intoxicating drinks; repeatedly using poison as 
medicines; keeping late hours at night, and sleeping late in the morning; 
wearing clothing too tight; wearing thin shoes; neglecting to wash the body 
sufficiently to keep the pores open; exchanging the warm clothes worn in a 
warm room during the day for costumes and exposure incident to evening 
parties; compressing the stomach to gratify a vain and foolish passion for 
dress; keeping up constant excitement; fretting the mind with borrowed 
troubles; swallowing quack nostrums for every imaginary ill; taking meala 
at irregular intervals, etc. 

Taking Cold — When a person begins to shiver, the blood is receding 
from the surface; congestion, to a greater or less extent has taken place, 
and the patient has already taken cold, to be followed by fever, iuflamma- 
tion of the lungs, neuralgia, rheumatism, etc. All these evils can be avoid- 
ed and the cold expelled by walking, or in some exercise that will produce 
a prompt and decided reaction in the system. The exercise should be suffi- 
cient to produce perepiration. If you are so situated that yoit can get a 
glass of hot water to drink, it will materially aid the perspiration, and in 
every way assist nature in her eff'orts to remove the cold. This course fol- 
lowed, your cold is at an end, and whatever disease it would ultimate in is 
aroided, your Bufferings are preyented and your doctor's bills 8ave<W 



464 TITE ITOUSEJTOID, 

Relief for tlie Feet — Every woman who is obliged to etand at the iron- 
ing table for hours duriag July and August, finds that her leet are prolific 
Bources of suflei-iug. Even if she is wise enough to wear thick soled shoes, 
she will find her lot a hard one. One little thing can be done to relieve her 
eowewhat. Take an old comforter, or part of one, told it in just as many 
thicknesses as is possible to make it soft, and yet perfectly easy to stand on. 
Her feet will be cooler, and when she is through with her work she will not 
have the stinging and burning sensation which is as hard to bear as pain is. 
It is a good plan to have a good sujjply of holders, so that slie can change 
them often. 

Sunstroke — As soon as you reach your patient take hold of him or her 
and carry or drag him or her into the shade. Place the body in a sitting 
posture, the back against a wall, ^vith the feet and legs resting upon the 
sidewalk and extending in front of the body. Get ice water and a bottle of 
some strong essence of ginger. Pour the ice water over the head, copiously; 
never mind the clothes. Then pour two or three tablespoonfuls of ginger 
m about half a tumbler of water, and make the patient swallow it quickly. 
Keep the head cool by iising a little of the ice water, and in case there is not 
much of a glow on the body give more ginger. If this recipe is promptly 
used and fully carried out in every case the Board of Health will never have 
^ death to record from this cause. It is no experiment or quack remedy. 'It 
roats but a few cents and a half-hour or an hour's time. Ginger is by far 
the best to use, and where it cannot be had quickly two or three good drinka 
of brandy will answer. 

Knock-Knees. — A correspondent says: " I commenced the practice of 
placing a small book between ray knees, and tying a ha*adkerchief tight 
round my ankles. This I did two or three times a day, increasing the sub- 
stance at every fresh trial, until I could hold a brick with ease breadth- 
ways. When I first commenced this practice I was as badly knock-kneed as 
possible; but now I am as straight as any one. I likewise made it a practice 
of lying on my back in bed, with my legs crossed and my knees fixed tightly 
together. This, I believe, did me a great deal of good." 

Indigestion. — I have been troiibled for years with indigestion, sick 
headache, and constipation, writes a lady, and have been greatly helped by 
dropping all remedies and drinking a coffeecupfiil of as warm water as can 
be drank comfortably, the first thing on rising and just before retiring, al- 
ways on an empty stomach. It will cause an unpleasant feeling at first, but 
persevere and you will be surprised at the benefit received. If the kidneys 
are at fault, drink water blood warm. 

Janndice. — Red iodide of mercury, seven grains; iodide of potassium, 
nine grains; distilled water, one ounce; mix. Commence by giving six 
drops three or four times a day, increasing one drop a day until twelve or 
fifteen drops are given at a dose. Give in a little water, immediately after 
meals. If it causes a griping sensation in the bowels, and fullness in the 
head, when you get tip to twelve or fifteen drops, go back to six drops, and 
up again as before. 

Gout—Take hot vinegar, and put into it all the table salt which it will 
dissolve, and bathe the parts affected with a soft piece of flannel. Rub in 
■with the hand and dry the f«ot, etc., by the fire. Repeat this operation four 



THE no ME PEYSICIAN: 455 

times in twenty-four hours, fifteen minutes each time, for four days; then 
twice a day for the same period; then once, and follow this rule whenever 
the symptoms show themselves at any future time. 

Sore Nipples— Pour boiling water on nutgalla (oak bark if galls cannot 
be obtained), and when cold, strain it off, and bathe the parts with it, or dip 
the cloth in the tea, and apply it; or twenty graias of tannin may be dis- 
solved in an ounce of water, and applied. The application of a few drops of 
collodion to the raw sui-face is highly recommended. It forms, when dry, a 
perfect coating over the diseased surface. 

Preventive of Seasickness. — The following remedy, preventive of sea- 
sickness, is recommended by Prof. E. Tourgee, of Boston, manager of tourist 
excursions. It was tried by himself and family, five in all, who had suffered 
from sea-sickness on every former voyage acrOss the Atlantic, and in each 
case it proved entirely successful, and produced no unfavorable results. 
Dissolve one oimce of bromide of sodium fii four ounces of water. Take one 
teaspoonful three times a day before eating. Begin taking the above three 
days before starting on the ocean voyage. 

Prickly Heat. — Prickly heat is a very common and troublesome disease. 
The most effectual treatment for it that we know of is a powder composed of 
one part of oxide of ziac, three parts of oxide of magnesia, and sixteen parts 
of sublimate of gulphur. Place the powder on a plate and press a damp 
sponge on it. Rub the body with the sponge, to which the particles of pow- 
der have adhered, and continue the application for fifteen minutes, then 
wash the parts clean of the adhering pai'ticles. Repeat twice or three times 
every twenty-four hours. 

Ulcers. — Here is a receipt that will cure any sore on man or beast that 
has ulcerated. Take two and one-half drachms blue stone, four drachms 
alum, six drachms loaf sugar, one drachm sugar of lead, one tablespoonful 
honey. Put all into a bottle, put in one pint of \'inegar, shake it three or 
four times a day, until they are dissolved, and it is ready for use. Pour 
some of it out and add water when you first apply to any sore, as it makes it 
smart at the first appUcation; apply three times a day. 

Nursing CUildren.—Mothers who nurse their children should bear in 
mind that what they eat at such a time is of great importance, both to them- 
selves and to the children. The very best article of food that they can avail 
themselves of is oatmeal mush or gruel, which is always delicious when 
properly cooked. The oatmeal furnishes the earthy phosphates and ma- 
terials out of which good milk is made, so that the mother's own structures 
are not drawn upon, and her teeth are saved from decay. 

Anodyne for Painful Menstruation. — Extract of stramonium and 
sulphate of quinine, each sixteen grains; macrotin, eight grains; morcrotin, 
eight grains; morphine, one grain; make into eight pills. Dose, one pill, 
repeating once or twice only, forty or fifty minutes apart, if the pain does 
not subside before this time. Pain must subside under the use of this pill, 
and costiveness is not increased. 

To Prevent Contagion. — Impregnation of the atmosphere of a sick 
chamber when the patient is ill of diphtheria, measles, scarlet fever, or of 
any allied disease, with the odor of a mixture of equal parts of turpentino 



456 TEE nOUSEHOLD. 

and carbolic acid, is recommended by a celebrated physician. Half a teJi- 
epoonful of mixture will be enough at a time, if it is put into a kettle of water 
kept near the boiling point. The odor gives some relief to the sufferer, and 
and tends to prevent the spread of the malady. 

Salt Rheam. — Take half a pound of swamp sassafras-bark and boil it, 
in enough fresh water to cover it, for the space of half an hour. Take off 
the water, and thoroughly wash the part affected. Add hog's lard to some 
of the water, and simmer it over a moderate fire until the water is evapo- 
rated; anoint the part affected, continuing the washing and anointing four 
days. A cure is generally certain. 

Simple Disinfectant—The following is a refreshing disLafectant for a 
sick-room, or any room that has an ixnpleasant aroma pervading it: Put 
some fresh ground coffee in a saucer, and in the center place a small piece 
of camphor gum, which light with a match. As the gum bairns allow suffi- 
cient coffee to consume with it. The perfume is very pleasant and healthful 
— ^being far superior to pastiles and very much cheaper. 

To Protect tlie Lungs from Dnst. — In farm labor one has often to en- 
counter a hurtful amount of dust. A simple and cheap protection from such 
an annoyance is to get a piece of sponge large enough to cover the nostrils 
and mouth, hollow it out on one side with a pair of scissors, to fit the face, 
attach a string to each side and tie it on. First wet it well, and squeeze out 
most of the water. Repeat this whenever the sponge becomes dry. All the 
dust will be caught in the damp cavities, and it is easily washed out. 

Fainting. — Painting is caused by the blood leaving the brain. Place 
the patient fiat and allow the head to be lower than the body. Spriakle cold 
water on the face. Hartshorn may be held near the nose, not to it. A half 
teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia, in a wineglassful of water, will 
tend to revive the patient. If the symptoms recur, send for a physician. 

Bee Stings. — Take a pinch in the fingers of common salt, put on the 
place stung and dissolve with water, rub with the finger. If not reUeved in 
one minute wet the place with aqua ammonia. Care should be taken not to 
get the ammonia into the eye. I have used this remedy for several years 
and it has never failed with me. It has always arrested the poison and pre- 
vented swelling. 

Cramp in tlie Leg. — A garter apphed tightly round the limb affected 
•will, in most cases, speedily remove the complaint. When it is more obsti- 
nate, a brick should be heated, wrapped in a flannel bag, and placed at the 
foot of the bed, against which the person troubled may place his feet. No 
remedy, however, is equal to that of diligent and long-continued friction. 

Boils. — These should be brought to a head by warm poultices of camo- 
mile flowers, or boiled white hly root, or onion root by fermentation with 
hot water, or by stimulating plasters. When ripe they should be destroyed 
by a needle or lancet; but this should not be attempted until they are fully 
proved. 

Pulmonary Complaints. — When an effusion of blood from the lungs 
takes place, a prompt and infalhble resource might readily be provided, so 
as to meet the occasion with a safe and decided effect. Prom twenty to 
thirty-five drops of the spirits of turpentine in a glass of water will produce 



TffE no ME PHTSICIAN-. 45? 

an instantaneous collapse of the mouth of the blood vessel. It is also asserted 
that^ in the above case, a tumblerful of strong gin-toddy, or gin and water, 
■will have the same effeet. 

Tobacco Antidote. — Buy two ounces or more of gentian root, coarsely 
ground. Take as much of it after each meal, or oftener, as amounts to a 
common quid of " tine-cut." Chew it slowly and swallow the juice. Con- 
tiuue this a few weeks, and you will conquer the insatiable appetite for to- 
bacco, which injures both mind and body, and from which thousands strug- 
gle to be free, but give up in despair. 

Ice for Teetliiiig Children. — The pain of teething may be almost done 
away, and the health of the child benefited by giving it tine splinters of ice, 
picked olf with a pm, to melt in its mouth. The instant quiet which suc- 
ceeds hours of fretfulness is the best witness to this magic remedy. 

Odor from Perspiration. — The unpleasant odor produced by perspira- 
tion is frequently the source of vexation to persons who are subject to it. 
Nothing ia simpler than to remove this odor. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
spirits of ammonia (hartshorn) in a basin of water, and wash. This leaves 
the skin clean and fresh. The wash is perfectly harmless and very cheap. 

Stvelled Feet and Ankles. — Take plantain leaves (which can be found 
in almost any grass-plot, and in our public parks); wilt them by putting 
separately between the hands; cover the swollen parts with them, and keep in 
place by wrapping the Hmb with rags or a towel on going to bed at night, or 
keep them on during the day if not obliged to be upon the feet. A cure will 
be speedily effected. 

Acid Stomacli. — A little magnesia and water will sometimes correct the 
acidity of a child's stomach, and render unnecessary any stronger medicine. 
Powder a teaspoonful of magnesia, and put it in half a glass of water; it will 
not dissolve, of course, but will mix with the water so that an infant can 
swallow it. Give a teaspoonful of this three times a day until indications 
warrant you in discontmuing it. 

Diet During Diarrhoea. — Tea without milk, and very little sugar; 
mutton and chicken broths, or beef tea, thickened with a httle flour or 
arrowroot; boiled rice, tapioca, sago; rice-water or toast-water to drink. If 
the attack is severe, or of long continuance, the patient must be kept in bed. 
The feet must be kept warm, and the covering to suit the feelings of the pa- 
tient. 

To Prevent Sunstroke. — Sunstroke is prevented by wearing a silk 
handkerchief in the crown of the hat, or green leaves, or a wet cloth of any 
kind; but, during an attack, wai-m water should be instantly poured on the 
head, or rags dipped in the water and renewed every minute. The reason 
is two-fold — the scalp is dry and hot, and the warm water not only removes 
the dryness but carries off the extra heat with great rapidity by evaporation. 

To Ascertain Fractures. — Fractures of the ribs may be ascertained by 
placing the tips of two or three fingers on the spot where the pain is, and 
desiring the patient to cough. If a rib be broken, a grating sensation will be 
felt. All that is necessary is to pass a broad bandage round the chest so 
tight as to prevent the motion of the ribs in breathing, and to obeerve a low 
diet. 



458 THE HOUSEnOLS. 

Removing Substances from tlie Kar. — Take a horse-hair about BiX 
inches long, and double it so as to make a loop at one end. Introduce this 
loop as deeply as possible iuto the auditory canal, and twist it gently around- 
After one or two turns, according to the originator of the plan, the foreign 
body is drawn out with the loop. The method is ingenious, and at all 
events causes little pain, and can do no harm. 

Deficiency of "Wax in ti»e Ear. — Deafness is sometimes the conse- 
quence of a morbidly dry state of the inner passages of the ear. In auch 
cases, introduce a bit of cotton wool dipped in an equal mixture of oil of 
turpentine and oil of almonds, or in the liniment of carbonate of am- 
monia. 

Snake Bites. — Turpentine is said to be a sure cure for a bite of a snake. 
It shoiild be put in a bottle, and the mouth being placed over the spot, the 
liquid brought directly in contact with the wound by inverting the bottle, 
which should be held there until relief is obtained. A complete alleviation 
of pain has been known to ensue in less than a quarter of an hour. An im- 
portant discovery. 

Sore Eyes. — Get the roots of linwood (some call it bass-wood), wash and 
scrape the outer bark cl'ean, then scra|)e the inner bark very fine, filling a 
tumbler about one-third full. Then fill the tumbler nearly full of rain-water. 
It will, in a little while, thicken like jelly. Now take a thin, soft cloth, the 
thinner the better, put some of the mucilage between two pieces and place 
it upon the eyes. It is very sootliing. 

Laxatives. — Infusions of Epsom salts and senna are often taken as laxa- 
tives, or openmg medicines. It is a well known fact that a teaspoontul of 
salts in a tumbler of cold water, if drunk before breakfast, is as effectual a 
dose as the usual ounce. Senna, too, if steeped in cold water, is equally 
eflScacious, and free from the nauseous bitter taste which it has when in- 
fused in boiling water. 

To Prevent Gray Hair. — To check premature grayness, the head 
should be well brushed morning and night, with a brush hard enough to 
irritate the skin somewhat. The bristles should be far enough apart to 
brush through the hair, aa it were, rather than over it. Oil, rather than 
pomade, should be used. Common sweet oil, scented with bergamot, can bo 
recommended. 

Cliolera Infantum. — For cholera infantum, the whites of4wo eggs, well 
beaten; then mix with water; add one teaspoonful of orange flower water 
and a little sugar; a tablespoonful every hour. It will, says an authority, 
cure the worst case of cholera infantum, the egg coating the bowels. 

Treatment for Fever — If the patient has a burning fever, take an 
earthen wash-bowl, fill two-thirds full of tepid water, in which put one 
tablespoonful of common baking soda; then bathe the face, body, and limbs 
freely with it and wipe dry. This treatment for fever was learned from one 
of our best physicians. 

Blood Blister. — When a finger is bruised so as to cause a blood-blister 
under the nail, it should immediately be drilled with a knife or other sharp- 
pointed instrument, and the blood allowed to escape. This afibrda instant 
relief to an injury which may otherwise become exceedingly painful. 



TUE ROME PHYSICIAN. 459 

A Vapor Batli. — A vapor bath may easily be prepared at home. Place 
a pail of hot water under a cane-bottomed chair, or if you have not one, put 
a narrow piece of board across the pail; on this the patient should sit for 
haK an hour, covered by a blanket reaching to the floor, so as to keep in the 
steam. 

Ventilation. — The best way to admit pure air in the night (where win- 
dows are the only mode of ventilation) ia to open the sleeping-room into a 
hall where there is an open window in order to avoid the draught. A win- 
dow with a small opening at the top and bottom ventilates more than one 
with one opening only. 

A Clieap and Simple Way to Disinfect a Room. — Heat a common 
iron fire-shovel hot, but not quite red hot, and pour an ounce of carbolic 
acid fluid on it. The fumes will penetrate the room everywhere and cleanse 
the air of its impurities. This should be repeated daily so long as it ia 
necessary. 

Deafness. — Put a tablespoonful of bay-salt into nearly half a pint of cold 
spring water; and after it has steeped therein for twenty-four hours, now 
and then shaking the phial, pour a small teaspoonful in the ear most affected, 
nightly, when in bed, for seven or eight successive nights. 

Tetter. — Procure some strawberry leaves, and lay the outside, or woolly 
side of the leaf on the parts affected. They must be laid on vei-y thick, and 
be changed occasionally. They will draw out inflammation, and cure the 
disease. 

Stiff Bfeclc. — Apply over the place affected a piece of black oil-cloth with 
the right side to the skin, then tie up the neck with a thick handkerchief. 
In a short time the part will grow moist, and, by leaving thus twelve hours, 
the pain will be removed. 

Pood for a Yonng Child. — If a very young child has to be fed, take 
the top crust of good, sweet home-made bread; soak it in cold water half an 
hour, and then boil twenty minutes; cover tight; then beat with a fork until 
smooth and sweet. This will agree with the stomach better than anything else. 

Piles. — The ingredients are: Two tablespoonfuls of tar, eight tablespoon- 
luls of lard, not heaped. First wash the parts effected with castile soap and 
water, and then apply the ointment. The ointment should be used once or 
twice each day. 

Cramp, in Batliing. — For the cure of the cramp when swimming, Dr. 
FrankUn recommends a vigorous and violent shock to the part affected, by 
suddenly and forcibly stretching out the leg, which should be darted out of 
the water into the air if possible. 

Spasms. — To cure this distressing form of malady, take two permy worth 
of camphor, and infuse it in one pint of brandy. Let it stand forty-eight 
hours, and then it is fit for use. When the attack comes on, take one tea- 
spoonful in a wineglass of water. 

Gnm-Boil, or Weakness of the Gums. — Take of acetate of morphia, 
two grains; tincture of myrrh, six drachms; tincture of krameria, one otmce', 
spirits of lavender, three ounces and a half. Let a lotion be madet 



4C0 THE nonsEnoLJ). 

Choking. — To prevent choking, break an egg into a CTip and give it to 
the person choking, to swallow. The white of the egg seems to catch around 
the obstacle and remove it. If one egg does not answer the purpose, try an- 
other. The white is all that is necessary. 

Scrofulous Soi-e Eyes. — Take blue violets, which are growing wild in 
most places, dig them up, top and root, wash clean, dry them and make a 
tea; drink several times a day, wetting the eyes each time, and it will soon 

cure. 

"IVeak Ankles. — Bathing them in wine-lees will strengthen them; fre- 
quent bathing in salt and water — four ounces of s*lt to one quart of water- 
is also beneficial. Skating moderately indulged in, will be attended by good 
results. 

Hot Milk as a .Stimulant. — If any one is fatigued, the best restorative 
is hot milk, a tumbler of the beverage as hot as can be sipped. This is far 
more of a restorative than any alcoholic drink. 

Cold Feet. — Cold feet are the precursors of consumption. To escape 
them, wami your feet well in the morning, and covering the sole \wth a 
piece of common paper, cai-efully draw on the sock, and then the boot or 
shoe. 

Drink in Cases of Fever. — There is no more refreshing drink in cases 
of fever than weak green tea, with lemon juice added instead of milk. It 
may be taken either cold or hot, but the latter is preferable. 

Frozen Limbs. — Dissolve from one quarter to half a pound of alum in 
a gallon of warm water, and immerse the ieet or hands in it when frozen, tor 
ten or fifteen minutes, and a cure will be effected. 

Foreign Bodies in tlieTliroat. — "Foreign bodies lodged in the throat 
can be removed," says Dr. Beveridge, a British naval surgeon, " by forcibly 
blowing intu the ear." The plan is so easily tried and so harmless that we 

suggest its use. 

Hiccougli. — Hiccough effects some persons very persistently, and where 
a simpler remedy does not check it, a half teaspoonful of nitre in a half 
tumbler of water is recommended as an instantaneous remedy. 

Cankers. — ^Those whitish-looking specks which appear on the inside of 
the cheeks and lips, may be easily removed by touching them with burnt 
alum. 

Enlarged Neck. — To cure enlarged neck, take two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, two of borax and two of alum, dissolve in two of water and apply three 
times a day for three weeks. 

A Prompt Emetic — The ingredients are: Tartar emetic, one grain; 
powdered ipecac, twenty grains. Take the above in a wineglassfnl of 
sweetened water. 

S^velled Feet. — For swelled feet a good remedy will be foond in bathing 
them in vinegar and water- 



THE TOILET. 



Tooth Po-wder. — (1) Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of 
boiling water, and before it is cold, add one teaspoonful of the spirits of 
camphor, and bottle for use. A tablespoonful of this mixture, mixed with 
an equal quantity of tepid water, and appUed daily with a soft brush, pre- 
serves and beautifies the teeth, extirpates all tartarous adhesion, arrests 
decay, induces healthy action of the gums, and makes the teeth pearly 
white. 

(2) The dark colored substance which collects on neglected teeth cannot 
be removed with a brush and water. Pulverized charcoal will take it oflf, 
but this scratches the enamel and leads to decay of the tooth. A better sub- 
stance is pumice stone in powder. Dip a pine stick into it, and scour the teeth. 
After this treatment the daily use of the tooth brush and tepid water will be 
BufScient. 

(3) A good way to clean teeth is to dip the brush in water, rub it over 
genuine white castile soap, then dip it in prepared chalk. A lady says: " I 
have been complimented upon the whiteness of my teeth, which were origi- 
nally anything but white. I have used the soap constantly for two or three 
years, and the chalk for the last year. There is no danger of scratching the 
teeth, as the challi is prepared, but with a good stiff brush and the soap, is 
as effectual as soap and sand on a floor. 

(i) Mix srs ounces of the tincture of Peruvian bark with half an ounce of 
sal-ammoniac. Shake it well before using. Take a spoonful and hold it near 
the teeth; then with a finger dipped into it, rub the gums and teeth, which 
must afterward be washed with warm water. This tincture cures the tooth- 
ache, preserves the teeth and gums, and makes them adhere to each other. 

(5) Prepared chalk, one pound; camphor, one or two drachms. The 
camphor must be finely powdered, by moistening it with a Uttle spirits of 
wine, and then intimately mixed with the chalk. 

(6) Ingi-edients: Powdered charcoal, four ounces; powdered yellow 
bark, two ounces; powdered myri-h, one ounce; orris root, half an ounce. 

(7) Ten cents' worth ground chalk, five cents' worth orris root, five 
cents' worth myrrh, one teaspoonful powdered castile soap, Mix all well 
together. 

(8) A mixture of honey with the purest charcoal will prove an admirable 
cleanser. 

Freckles.— (1) Freckles are easily removed by the following treatment, 
but the directions must be followed regularly: Five grains corrosive sub- 
limate, two ounces alcohol, four ounces water. Apply two or three times 
auring the day. At night use the following ointment: One ounce of white 
wax, one teacupful of nice white lard, lump of camphor the size of a chest- 
nut, one teaspoonful glycerine. Put the wax and camphor in a tin to melt, 
erumbUng the camphor; when melted, add the other ingredients. Stir 
thoroughly, and pour into molds which have been dipped iu water. 



4C2 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

This recipe will be found to remove pimples as well as tan and 
freckles. 

(2) A good freckle lotion for the cure of freckles, tan, or sun-burned face 
or bands is made thus: Take half a pound of clear ox-gall, half a drachm 
each of camphor and burned alum, one drachm of borax, two ounces of 
rock salt, and the same of rock candy. This should be mixed and shaken 
well several times a day for three weeks, until the gall becomes trans- 
parent; then stram it very carefully through filtering paper, which may 
be had of the druggist. Apply to the iace during the day, and wash off at 
night. 

(3) Wash in fresh buttermilk every morning, and rinse the face in tepid 
water; then use a soft towel. Freckles may also be removed by applying to 
the face a solution of nitre and water. Another good wash for freckles is 
made by dissolving three grains of borax in five drachms each of rose water 
and orange flower water. There are many remedies for freckles, but there 
is none that will banish them entirely. 

(i) Take one ounce of lemon juice, a quarter of a drachm of powdered 
borax, and half a drachm of sugar. IVIix and let them stand in a glasa 
bottle for a few days, then rub it on the face and hands night and morning. 
Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice would equal an ounce. 

(5) Rectified spirits of v/ine, one ounce; water, eight ounces; half an 
ounce of orange flower water, or one ounce of rose water; diluted muriatic 
acid, a teaspoonful. Mix. To be used after washing. 

(6) Take grated horseradish and put in very sour milk. Let it stand 
four hours; then wash the face night and morning. 

To Prevent tlie Hair FaUlng Oir._(l) When the hair, after being 
naturally luxuriant, begins to g.row thin, without actually coming out in par- 
ticles, use the following i-eceipt: Take of extract of yellow Peruvian bark, 
fifteen grains; extract of rhatany root, eight grains; extract of burdock root 
and oil of nutmegs ^mixed), of each, two drachms; camphor dissolved with 
Bpirits of wine, fifteen grains; beef marrow, two ounces; best olive oil, one 
ounce; citron juice, half a drachm; aromatio essential oil, as much as is suf- 
ficient to render it fragrant; mix, and make into an ointment. Two drachms 
of bergamot and a few drops of attar of roses would sufBce. This is to be 
used every morning. 

(2) Onions must be rubbed frequently on the part. The stimulating 
powers of this vegetable ai-e of essential service in restoring the tone of the 
ekin, and assisting the capillary vessels in sending forth new hah-; but it is 
not infallible. Should it succeed, however, the growth of these new hairs 
may be assisted by the oil of myrtleberries, the repute of which, perhaps, is 
greater than its real efficiency. These applications are cheap and harmless, 
even where they do no good; a character which cannot be said of the numer- 
ous quack remedies that meet the eye in every direction. 

(3) To prevent hair from falling out or turning gray, take a tcacupful ol 
dried sage, and boil it in a quart of soft water for twenty minutes. Strain it 
off and add a piece of borax the size of an English walnut; pulverize the 
borax, Put the sage tea, when cool, into a quart bottle; add the borax; 
shake well together, and keep in a cool place. Brush the hair thoroughly 
and rub the wash well on the head with the hand. Then, after a good hard 
rubbing, brush the hair well before the fire so it will become dry. 

(4) Put equal quantities of rum and sweet oil into a bottle, and, before 
using, shake Uiem well together. This louture akouid b& applied with a 



THE TOILET. 463 

Boft bmsh to the roots of the hair every night; it should b« tried for a month 
at the least, before any improvement can be expected. 

(5) Put one pound of unadulterated honey into a still, with three hand- 
fuls of the tendrils of vine and the same quantity of rosemary tops. Distill 
as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till ik 
tastes sour. 

(6) To prevent the hair from falling out apply once a week a wash mada 
of one quart of boiling water, one ounce of pulverized borax and half an 
ounce of powdered camphor. Eub on with a sponge or a piece of flannel. 

(7) Take a piece of saltpetre the size of a hickory nut, and put in a quart 
of water, and wet the head daily. 

To Soften the Hands — (1) To soften the hands, fill a wash-basin half 
full of fine, white sand and soaj) suds as hot as can be borne. Wash the 
hands in this five minutes at the time, washing and rubbing them in the 
sand. The best is the flint sand, or the white, powdered quartz sold for 
filters. It may be used i-epeatedly by pouring the water away after each 
washing, and adding fresh to keep it from blowing about. Einse in warm 
lather of fine soaj), and, alter drying, rub them with dry bran or cornmeal. 
Dust them, and finish with rubbing cold cream well into the skin. This 
effectually removes the roughness caused by housework, and should be 
used eveiy day, first removing ink or vegetable stains with acid. 

(2) Soap is an indispensable article for cleansing hands, but it often 
leaves the skin rough; cracks on the hands come, and soap is often unpleas- 
ant. Use honey, rxib it on when the skin is dry; moisten a little, rub harder, 
use a little more water; finally wash thoroughly and your hands will be as 
clean as though the strongest soap were used, and no cracks or roughness 
will annoy you. 

(3) Keep a dish of Indian meal on the toilet stand near the soap, and rub 
the meal freely on the hands after soaping them for washing. It will sur- 
prise you, if you have not tried it, to find how it will cleanse and soften the 
skin, and prevent chapping. 

(•i) Before retiring take a large pair of gloves and spread mutton tallow 
inside, also all over the hands. Wear the gloves all night, and wash the 
hands with olive oil and white castile soap the next morning. 

(5) After cleansing the hands with soap, rub them well with oatmeal 
while still wet. Honey is also very good, used in the same way as lemon- 
juice, well rubbed in at night. 

To "IVUiten the Hands — (1) Keep some oatmeal on the washstand, 
and, as often as the hands are washed, rub a little oatmeal over them; then 
rinse it off, and, when dry, put on a little bit of pomade, made as follows: 
Take about five cents' worth each of white wax, spermaceti, and powdered 
camphor, and olive oil enough to make it the thickness of soap; put it in a 
gallipot, and let it stand in an oven to melt; mix it up, and, when cold, it 
will be found very good for the hands. Gloves, worn either iu the day or 
night, will help to keep the hands white. 

(2) A cake of brown Windsor soap scraped into thin flakes, and then 
mixed with a tablcspoonful of eau de cologne, and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, is said to make a useful preparation for this purpose. There is 
nothing injurious to the skin in the composition. When the soap has been 
thoroughly blended with the lemon juice and eau de cologne, it should'- 
6e pressed into a mold— one made of cardboard in the form of a smaU 



464 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

box, the size of a cake of soap, will answer the purpose — and allowed to dry 
before it is used. 

(3) Half an ounce of white wax, half an ounce of spermaceti, quarter of 
an ounce of powdered camphor. Mix them with as much olive oil as will 
form them into a very stiff paste, and use as often as you wash your 
hands. 

(4) Mixtures of two parts of glycerine, one part ammonia, and a httle 
rose water whiten and soften the hands. 

Pimples. — (1) It requires self-denial to get rid of pimples, for persons 
troubled with them will persist in eating fat meats and other articles of food 
calculated to produce them. Avoid the use of rich gravies, or pastry, or 
anything of the kind in excess. Take all the out-door exercise you can and 
never indulge in a late supper. Ketire at a reasonable hour, and liso early 
in the morning. Sulphur to purify the blood may be taken three times a 
week — a thimbleful in a glass of milk before breakfast. It takes some time 
for the sulphur to do its work, therefore persevere in its use till the hu- 
mors, or pimples, or blotches, disappear. Avoid getting wet while taking 
the sulphur. 

(2) Try this recipe: "Wash the face twice a day in warm water, and rub 
dry with a coarse towel. Then with a soft towel rub in a lotion made of tw3 
ounces of white brandy, one ounce of cologne, and one half ounce of liquor 
potassa. Persons subject to skin eruptions should avoid very salt or fat 
food. A dose of Epsom salts occasionally might prove beneficial. 

(3) Wash the face in a dilution of carbolic acid, allowing one teaspoonful 
to a pint of water. This is an excellent and purifying lotion, and may be 
used on the most delicate skins. Be careful about letting this wash get into 
the eyes. 

(4) Oil of sweet almonds, one ounce; fluid potash, one drachm. Shake 
well together, and then add rose water, one ounce; pure water, six ounces. 
Mix. Eub the pimples or blotches for some minutes with a rough towel, 
and then dab them with the lotion. 

(5) Dissolve one ounce of borax, and sponge the face with it every night. 
When there are insects, rub on flour of sulphur, dry, after washing, rub well 
and wipe dry; use plenty of castile soap. 

(6) Dilute corrosive sublimate with oil of almonds. A few days' applica- 
tion will remove them. 

Cosmetics. — (1) Oatmeal may be used for beautifying the complexion in 
this way: Take a small quantity of meal and pour sufiicient cold water over 
it to make a thin paste; then strain through a fine sieve and bathe the face 
with the liquid, leaving it to dry upon the skin. This preparation renders 
the complexion very soft and white. 

(2) Take an ordinary milk pan, and fill it with the white flowers of the 
elderberry bush. The floweis should be covered with boiling water, placed 
out-of-doors in the sun for about three days, strained off, and bottled. The 
liquid should be of a dark mahogany color. It is an excellent lotion to re- 
move sunburn and freckles. 

(3) Squeeze a little lemon juice on a soft, wet rag, and pass the rag over 
the face a number of times before retiring at night. Repeat the operation as 
often during the following day as you find it convenient, allowing the juice 
of the lemon to dry on the face. In a week or so you will experience great 
benefit. 

(4) Glycerine and lemon juice make a very good toilet article for improv* 



THE TOILET. HSit 

ing the complexion. Mix before applying it. A convtmient way of using 
these articles is to pour a little of the glyceriae into the palm of the hand, 
then squeeze out a few drops of lemon, rub together, and apply to the 
face. 

(5) Take half a cup of ■water, and add to it a tablespoonful of glycerine. 
Add to'thls a tablespoonful of alcohol and a teaspoonful of colonge. Apply 
with a sponge or a soft cotton cloth. 

(6) An intusion of horseradish and milk, as a correspondent informs us, 
will make a most, excellent, harmless, and effective cosmetic. It is certainly 
very easUy tried. 

(7) Melt one p(5und of soft soap over a slow fire, with half a pint of sweet 
oil, and add a teacupful of fine sand. Stir the mixture together until cold. 

(8) Use a teaspoonful of powdered borax every morning in the basin of 
water, when washing the face or hands; also use it when taking a bath. 

Sunburn. — (1) Take two drachms of borax, one drachm-of Roman alum, 
one drachm of camphor, half an ounce of sugar-candy, one pound of ox-gall; 
mix and stir well for ten minutes or so, and repeat this stirring three or four 
times a day for a fortnight, till it appears clear and transparent. Strain 
through blotting paper, and bottle up for use. It i^said that strawberries 
rubbed over the face at night will remove freckles and sunburn. 

(2) Wash the face at night with either sour milk or buttermilk, and in 
the morning with weak bran tea and a little eaii-de- cologne. This will soften 
the skin and remove the redness, and will also make it less liable to burn 
again with exposure to the sun. Bathing the face several times in the day 
with elder flower water and a few drops of eau-de-cologne is very fefiBcacious. 

(3) Put two spoonfuls of sweet creana into half a pint of new milk; squeeze 
into it the juice of a lemon, add half a glass of genuine French brandy, a 
little alum and loaf sugar; boil the whole, skim it well, and, when cold, it 
is fit for use. 

Pomade for tlie Hair. — (1) Ingredients: one quarter pound of lard; 
two pennyworth of castor oil; scent. Mode: Let the lard be unsalted; beat 
it up well; then add the castor oil, and mix thoroughly together with a knife, 
adding a few drops of any scent that . may be preferred. Put the pomatum 
into pots, which keep well covered to prevent it turning rancid. 

(2) A flask of salad oil, one and a half ounces of spermaceti, half ounce 
of white wax; scent as desired. Cut up the white wax and spermaceti into 
small pieces, and put them into the oven to melt with a small quantity of 
the oil. Allien the lumps have disappeared, and all the ingredients are 
thoroughly amalgamated, pour in the remamder of the oil and the scent, and 
stir with a spoon until cold. 

(3) Three ounces of olive oil, three quarters of a drachm of oil of al- 
monds, two drachms of palm oil, half an ounce of white wax, a quarter of a 
pound of lard, and three quarters- of a drachm of essence of bergamot. This 
pomade is excellent for strengthening the huir, promoting the growth of 
whiskers and moustaches, and preventing baldness. 

(4) Take one ounce of spermaceti, one ounce of castor oil, four ounces of 
olive oil, and two pennyworth of bergamot, and melt them together in a pot 
placed in boiling water, stirring the mixture all the whUe; when thoroughly 
mixed, pour the mixture into pots while hot. 

The Teeth. — The teeth need brushing at least before going to bed every 
night, and are better for being cleansed after each meal. Tartar can be re- 



4C6 THE nOUSEEOLD. 

moved by using pumice etone reduced to powder, rubbing it on the teeth 
■with a bit of soft wood made into a brush. Where the gums are sensitive, 
there is nothing better than the challi and myrrh dentifrice. Where the top 
of a tooth is very sensitive, wet a bit of chalk and lay it on under the lip. 
"Where the breath is offensive the mouth should be rinsed with water in which 
an atom of permanganate of potash has been dissolved; just enough should 
be used to make the water i^ink. Take care not to swallow any, as it is a 
poison. Crooked teeth in children can often be straightened, without ap- 
plying to a dentist, if the j^arents watch the teeth when coming through, and 
several times a day press the crooked one into position. Of course where 
the arch of the mouth is defective, the upper teeth protruding over the under 
lip, or the under jaw projects, the services of a sldllful dentist will be re- 
quired. It ia only after the permanent teeth arrive that such operations are 
performed. 

Toilet Po%vder. — Just think of it, one of the most deadly poisons known 
— used because of its cheapness, to add weight to an article applied solely to 
the delicate skins of women and children. Fearful and incurable skin dis- 
eases upon children to whom it has been apphed to prevent chafing, led to 
the discovery. It is safe to discard all French toilet powder. Safe prepara- 
tions are put up in this country, but each mother can make her own, be- 
cause the best are only perfumed starch. Starch, made perfectly dry, and 
sifted through the finest sieve, may be used, or a few drops of any desired 
perfume may bo mixed with it. Those who have lavender or other aromatic 
flowers can fold them in thin fiaper, and place these with layers of starch, in 
a box, renewing the flowers every few days, until the starch has absorbed 
eufScient perfume. The starch will take up a little moisture from the flow- 
ers, and it is best to let it be exposed to the sun, iintil quite dry, and then if 
at all lumpy, be sifted again . 

Rose Bandoline fortlie Hair. — Of gum tragacanth, six ounces, or one 
and one-half ounces; of rose water, one gallon, or two pints; of attar of roses, 
one-half ounce, or one drachm; steep the gum in the water for a day or so; 
as it swells or forms a gelatinous mass, it must from time to time be well 
agitated. After about forty-eight hours' maceration, it is then to be squeezed 
through a coarse, clean linen cloth, and again left to stand for a few days; 
then pass it through the cloth a second time, to insure uniformity of consis- 
tency; when this is the case, the attar of roses is to be thoroughly incor- 
porated. Almond bandoline is made precisely as the above, scenting with 
a quarter of an ounce of attar of almonds in place of the roses. 

E}i-uptions on the Face. — Dissolve an ounce of borax in a quart of 
water, and apply this with a fine sponge every evening before going to bed. 
This -will smooth the skin when the eruptions do not proceed from an insect 
working under the cuticle. Many persons' faces are disfigured by red erup- 
tions caused by a small creature working under the skin. A very excellent 
remedy is to take the flour of sulphur and rub it on the face dry, after wash- 
ing it in the morning. Rub it well with the fingers, and then wipe it off 
with a di-y towel. There are many who are not a little ashamed of their 
faces, who can be cured if they follow these directions. 

Chapped Hands. — (1) To cure chapped hands, take common starch and 
rub it into a fine, smooth powder, put it in a clean tin box, and eveiy time 
the hands are remoyed from dish water or hot euds, rinse them cwefully in 



TEE TOILET. 467 

clean water, and while they are clamp, rub a pinch of starch over them, 
covering the whole surface. 

(2) Melt spermaceti, one drachm, with almond oil, one ounce; and add 
powdered camphor, one drachm. It will be improved by adding a couple 
of drachma of glycerine, using as much less of the almond oil. 

(3) One-half ounce of glycerine with same amount of alcohsl. Mix, and 
add four ounces of rose water. Bottle, and shake well. An excellent 
remedy for rough or chapped hands. 

To Sweeten the Breath—From six to ten drops of the concentrated 
solution of chloride of soda in a wineglassful of spring water, taken imme- 
diately after the ablutions of the morning are completed, will sweeten the 
breath by disinfecting the stomach, which, far from being injured, will be 
benefitted by the medicine. If necessary, this may be repeated in the mid- 
dle of the day. In some cases the odor from carious teeth is combined 
with that of the stomach. If the mouth is well rinsed with a teaspoonful of 
the chloride in a tumbler of water, the bad odor of the teeth will be 
removed. 

Bay Rum. — Saturate one-quarter pound of carbonate of magnesia with 
oil of bay; pulvei'ize the magnesia, place it in a filter, and pour water 
through it lantil the desired quantity is obtained, then add alcohol. The 
quantity of water and alcohol employed depends on tho desired strength 
and quantity of the bay rum. Another: Oil of bay, ten fluid drachms; oil of 
pimento, one fluid drachm; acetic ether, two fluid drachms; alcohol, three 
gallons; water, two and a half gallons. Mix, and alter two weeks' repose, 
filter. 

Otto of Roses. — Fill a large glazed earthen jar with rose leaves, care- 
fully separated from the cups; pour upon them spring water, just sufficient 
to cover them, and set the jar with its contents in the sun for two or three 
days, taking it under cover at night. At the end of the third or fourth day, 
email particles of yellow oil will be seen floating on the surface of the water, 
■*nd which, in the course of a week, will have increased to a thin scum. The 
scum is the otto of roses; take it up with a little cotton tied to the end of a 
stick, and squeeze it into a phial. 

Essence from Flowers — Procure a quantity of the petals of any flow- 
ers which have an agreeable fragrance; card thin layers of cotton, which 
dip into the finest Florence or Lucca oU; sprinkle a small quantity of fine 
salt on the flowers alternately until an earthen vessel or wide-mouthed glass 
bottle is full. Tie the top close with a bladder, then lay the vessel in a 
south aspect to the heat of the sun, and in fifteen days, when uncovered, a 
fragrant oil may be squeezed away, leaving a whole mass quite equal to the 
high-priced es«ences. 

To Curl the Hair — There is no preparation which will make naturally 
straight hair assume a permanent curl. The following will keep the hair m 
curl for a short time: Take borax, two ounces; gum arable, one drachm; and 
hot water, not boiling, one quart; stir, and, as soon as the ingredients are 
dissolved, add three tablespoonfuls of strong spirits of camphor. On retir- 
ing to rest, wet the hair with the above liquid, and roll in twists of paper as 
usual. Do not disturb the hair until njoming, wheu untwist and form into 
ringlets, 



468 THE nOUSEUOLB. 

Black Spots on the Face— The black spots on the face are not always 
what are called flesh worms. What are mistaken for them are produced in 
this way: The skin may be coarse, and the ducts, being large, collect the 
perspiration, which hardens and blackens, and'hence the common supposi- 
tion of there being grubs or maggots in the sldu. The remedy is simple. 
Clean the part affected by squeezing out the substance that is lodged, and 
then use a lotion of diluted spmta of wine several times a day, until the 
blotches have disappeared. If they are really flesh worms take something 
to purify your blood — sulphur or sarsaparilla 

Moth Patches. — (1) It is said that the drinking of hard cider— two or 
three "glasses per day — will remove moth spots. At least, so writes a cor- 
respondent who has tried it with success. While d rinkin g the cider let tea 
^d coffee alone. 

(2) Moth patches may be removed from the face by the following remedy: 
/nto a pint bottle of rum put a tablespoonful of flour of sulphur. Apply 
this to the patches once a day, and they will disappear in two or three 
weeks. 

(3) Bathe the face two or three times a day in borax water; a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered borax in a basin of warm water. 

Cold Cream. — This is a simple and cooling ointment, exceedingly ser- 
viceable for rough or chapped hands, or for keeping the skin soft. It is very 
easily made. Take half an ounce of white wax, and put it into a small basin, 
■with two ounces of almond oil. When quite melted add two ounces of rose 
■water. This must be done very slowly, Httle by little, and, as you pour it in, 
beat the mixture smartly with a fork to make the water incorporate. When 
all is incorporated, the cold cream is complete, and you may pour it into 
jars for future use. 

Scent Po-»vder. — A good receipt for scent powder to be used for ward-, 
robes, boxes, etc., far finer than any mixture sold at the shops, is the follow- 
ing: Coriander, orris root, rose leaves, and aromatic calamus, each one 
ounce; lavender flowers, ten ounces; rhodium, one-fourth of a drachm; 
inusk, five grains. These are to be mixed and reduced to a coarse powder. 
This scents clothes as if fragrant flowers had been presse^d in their folds. 

■Walnut Hair Dye. — The simplest form is the expressed juice of tho 
bark or shell of green walmxts. To preserve this juice, a httle "rectified 
spirits may be added to it, with a few bruised cloves, and the whole digested 
together, with occasional agitation for a week or fortnight, when the clear 
portion is decanted, and, if necessary, filtered. Sometimes, only a Uttla 
common salt is added to preserve the juice. It should be kept in a cool 
. place. 

liaveiider Water— Best English lavender, four drachms; oil of cloves, 
half a drachm; musk, five grains; best spirits of wine, six ounces; water, 
one ounce. Mix the oil of lavender with a little spirit first, then add tha 
other ingredients, and l6t it stand, being kept well corked for at least two 
months- before it is used, shaking it frequently. 

To Increase the Growth of Hair. — Take of mutton suet, one pound; 
best white wax, four ounces; essences of bergamot and lemon, of each, three 
drachms; oils of lavender and thyme, of each, one drachia» Mix file ftoet 
^ad wax oyer a gentle fire and then add the perfumes. 



ttTE 'TOlLEf. m 

•To Thicken the Haii- — Ono quart of white wine, one handful of rose- 
mary flowers, one-half pound of honey, one-quarter pint of oil of sweet 
almonds. IVIix the rosemary and honey with the wine, distill them together, 
then add the oil of sweet almonds and shake well. When using it, pour a 
little into a cup, warm it, and rub it into the roots of the hair. 

Crimping Hair. — To make the hair stay in crimp, take five cents' worth 
of gum arable and add to it just enough boiling water to dissolve it. When 
dissolved, add enough alcohol to make it rather thin. Let this stand all 
night and then bottle it to prevent the alcohol from evaporating. This put 
on the hair at night, after it is done up in papers or pins, will make it stay in 
crimp the hottest day, and is perfectly harmless. 

The Nails. — Great attention should be paid to keeping the nails in good 
order. They should be brushed at least twice a day, and the skin 1-ound the 
lower part should be kept down by rubbing with a soft towel. The sides of 
the nails need clipping about once in a week. If they become stained, wash 
them well with soap, and after rinsing off the soap well, brush them with 
lemon juice. 

Toilet Soap. — Take two pounds of pure beef tallow, two pounds of sal 
soda, one pound of salt, one ounce of gum camphor, one ounce of oil of ber- 
gamot, one ounce of borax; boil slowly an hour; stir often, let it stand till 
cold, then warm it over, so it will run easily, and turn into cups or molds, 
dipped in cold water. This is very nice for all toilet purposes, and is greatly 
improved by age. 

Almond Paste—Take of bleached almonds four ounces, and the white 
of one egg; beat the almonds to a smooth paste in a mortar, then add the 
■white of egg, and enough rose water, mixed with one-half its weight of 
spirits of wine, to give the proper consistence. This paste is used as a. 
cosmetic, to beautify the complexion, and is also a remedy for chapped 
hands, etc. 

Hair 'W'ash. — Take one ounce of borax, half an ounce of camphor pow- 
der — these ingredients fine— and dissolve them in one quart of boiling water. 
When cool, the solution will be ready for use. Damp the hair frequently. 
This wash is said not only to cleanse and beautify, but to strengthen the 
hair, preserve the color and prevent baldness. 

To Slake Ean de Cologne. — Rectified spirits of wine, four pints; oil of 
bergamot, one ounce; oil of lemon", half an ounce; oil of rosemary, half a 
drachm; oil of neroli, three-quarters of a drachm; oil of English lavender, 
one drachm; oil of oranges, one drachm. Mix well, and then filter. If these 
proportions are too large, smaller ones may be iised. 

Care of the Hair— To keep the hair healthy, keep the head clean. 

Brush the scalp well with a stiff bruah while di-y. Then wash with castilfl 

.soap, and rub into the roots, bay rum, brandy, or camphor water. This done 

twice a month will prove beneficial. Brush the scalp thoroughly twice a 

■week. Dampen the hair with soft water at the toilet, and do not use oil. 

Pearl "Water for the Complexion.— Take castile soap, one pound; 
•water, one gallon. Dissolve; then add alcohol, one quart; oil of rosemary 
and oil of lavender, of each two drachma. Mix treU. 



470 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

PreiicH Milk of Roses.—Two and one-half pints of roae water, one-half 
pint of rosemary water, two ounces of tincture of storan, two ounces of 
tincture of benzoin, one-half ounce of esprit de rose. First mix the rose 
water and rosemary water, and then add the other ingredients. This is a 
useful wash for the complexion. 

Violet Powder. — Wheat starch, six parts by weight; o«ris root powder, 
two. Having reduced the starch to an impalpable powder, mix thoroughly 
With the orris root, and then perfume with otto of lemon, otto of bergamot, 
and otto of cloves, using twice as much of the lemon as either of the other 
ottos. 

Perfame for Handkercliiefs. — Oil of lavender, three fluid drachms; 
oil of bergamot, three fluid drachms; extract of ambergris, six minims; 
camphor, one grain; spirits of wine, one pint. To be well shaken every day 
for a fortnight, and then filtered. 

Boiiqnet de la Reiiie. — Take one ounce of essence of bergamot, three 
drachms of EngUsh oil of lavender, half a drachm of oil of cloves, half a 
drachm of aromatic vinegar, six grains of musk, and one pint and a half of 
rectified spirits of wine. Distill. 

Oil of Roses for tlie Hair — Olive oil, one quart; otto of roses, one 
drachm; oil of rosemary, one drachm; mix. It may be colored by steeping 
a little alkanet root in the oil (with heat) before scenting it. It strengthens 
and beautifies the hair. 

Shampooing Liqnid—An excellent shampoo is made of salts of tartar, 
white castile soap, bay rum and lukewarm water. The salts mil remove alj 
dandruff, the soap will soften the hair and clean it thoroughly, and the bay 
rum will prevent taking cold. 

Hair Restorative —A good hair restorative may be made of boxwood 
leaves, of which take a handful and piit into one pint of boiling water; digest 
for an hour, simmer ten minutes, and then strain. In applying it to the haii 
rub it well into the roots. 

liip Salve. — Melt a lump of sugar in one and a half tablespoonfuls ol 
rose water; mix it with two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, a piece of spermaceti 
half as large as an English walnut; simmer the whole, and turn it into 
boxes. 

Wash for the Hair. — The best wash we know for cleansing and soften- 
ing the hair is an egg beaten up, and rubbed well into the hair, and after- 
ward washed out with several washes of warm water. 

Cure for Chapped liips— Dissolve a lump of beeswax in a small quan- 
tity of sweet oil — over a candle— let it cool, and it will be ready for use, 
Eubbing it warm on the lips two or three times will effect a cure. 



THE LAUNDRY. 



A ■Washing Machine—The opinion is now becoming general that tha 
proper way to wash clothes is to alternately fill them with water and press 
it ont, avoiding friction as much as possible. We herewith present a de- 
scription of a machine for this purpose. The figure is a sectional view. A 
is a cj'linder two feet in diameter, made of any suitable material. In the 
middle of the cylinder will be seen a stationary cylinder head, £, which is 
perforated with holes. C are two movable pistons, working watertight in 
the cyhnder — both of them fastened rigidly to the rod D. On the top part 
of the rod is a rack, which gears into the pinion E, worked by the crank F. 
The operation is as follows: The upper piston is r-aised above the top of the 
cylinder, and the clothes to be washed are placed 
therein, with a sufficient quantity of soap and water. 
On depressing the piston by means of the crank, 
the upper piston presses all the water ont of the 
clothes, passing through the cylinder head B, thence 
following the lower piston to the bottom of the cylin- 
der. Thus all the water is squeezed out of the 
clothes. On reversing the direction of the crank 
the pistons rise, and the lower one forces the water 
through the stationary head again into the clothes. 
It is thus depressed and raised alternately, soaking 
and squeezing the water out of the clothes. A 
Btop-cock should be placed in the side of the cylin- 
der to let off the water when not requii-ed. 

"Washing Ijace Curtains. — There are many 
ways of doing this work; those which are bleached 
by the use of many of the bleaching powders make 
the lace beautifully clear and white, but usually in- 
jure the fabric; and when possible it is much safer 
to have them done up at home. The prevailing 
impression has been that there was some peculiar mystery in bleaching lace 
of any kind; that the process was tedious and vei-y intricate, and if not done 
by a professional cleaner the lace was in imminent danger of destruction. 

It is not so at all. Once understood, the work is as simple as any wash- 
mg. Shake all the dust out of the lace curtains when taken down, but be 
gentle about it to avoid tearing. The shaking will remove the greater part 
of the loose dirt. Then spread them across two lines near together in the 
clothes yard, and brush them softly with a clean feather duster. When all 
has been brushed off, put them, one at a time, into a tub half full of milk- 
warm water and add two tablespoonfuls of liquid ammonia. Let it remain 
ten or fifteen minutes, turniag it over carefully every minute or two, and 
squeezing with the hands. This through the ammonia will loosen all the 
dirt, after which squeeze out gently but as dry as can be done without 
breaking the meahea. Have ready another tub of tepid water with aome 




472 THE IT6tTSEnOLD. 

more ammonia, and put the curtain into that immediately. Let it soak 
"while the next curtain is taken through the same process as the lh-at,.and so 
on until all the curtains have been taken through at least three waters, or 
till the water looks clear, squeezing and washing the curtains with the hands 
as the work goes on. Ammonia in the two first waters is sufficient, and if 
not very gray and smoky, it will only be needed in the first. 

After taking the curtains through the three waters many starch and blue 
them, and, without any soap or scalding, prepare to stretch them and pin in 
shape. But we prefer to put them into a bag, or coarse pillow-case, and 
scald in clean soapsuds (not vei-y strong) for a few minutes. The suds 
should be made of very pure soap, and the water, when they are first put in 
only tepid; then just bring to a boiling heat. While the curtains are scald- 
ing prepare two tubs of clean water — one to rinse the curtains when they are 
taken from the boiler, and the o'ther for the last rinsing. This should be 
blued; and the starch requires to be blued quite deeply, as, when hung .up 
against the light, lace does not appear blue. The blued water and starch 
should- be strained, that no mote of bluing may escape to settle on the 
curtains. 

Take the curtains from the boiler when slightly scalded, rinse thoroughly, 
but with a gentle hand, till all the suds are out, then wring or squeeze out, 
and put through the bluing-water, wring out from that, and prepare to 
stretch, and pin out smoothly to the original length and width. This must 
be done when just taken from the water, as lace canriot be stretched when 
dry. The whole process of washing, scalding, rinsing and stretching should 
be done as expeditiously as consistent with thorough work, for no other "cot- 
ton material shrinks so easily. 

Many pin a clean sheet on to a carpet, in an unoccupied airy room, and 
pin the curtains on to the sheet. Every point and scallop should be pulled 
out and pinned on to the sheet evenly. But that is a very hard way for any 
one who finds stooping and bending over painful; and we don't think the 
lace looks as clear, because when pinned on to a carpet there can be no free 
circulation of air from underneath. 

It is easiel^ and in every way better, to keep on hand four strips of thin 
boards, about three inches wide, made very similar to quilting-frames, with 
holes at suitable distances, to increase or diminish the length and breadth to 
euit the size of the curtains, and strong wooden pins put through the holes 
to fasten the frames strongly together. Tack, closely, strips of cloth, sel- 
vedge edge out, or wide tape, the whole length of the bars. Then placs 
them on chairs so that they will stand firm and steady — out-doors, on a 
still, bright, sunny day— and pin or baste thecurtains to the tape, pulling 
out and fastening every point in the lace. 

Before wetting the curtains do not forget to measure them in length and 
breath, and mark the measure on the frame they are to be dried On. When 
■washed they must be fastened at both ends first, and then stretched to 
match this measure. It takes but a little time to dry curtains thus stretched 
in the sun, and if well rinsed, free from soap, several curtains may be 
stretched out at the same time. This is a great saving of time; but we 
always fear the lace will not look as clear as if dried separately. But we 
have never tried that way. We, however, hear it approved by those who 
have. 

Instead-of nailing tape or strips of cloth to the " frame," small-siz^ gal- ' 
vanized tenter hooks are often driven into the frame on all four sides, and 
the lace or muslin ciirtaina are caught on to tlieae Jiooka and thus stretched 



TJIE LAVNBRY. 



m 



■ Otit to dry. We do not like this so well as basting the curtaina to the tape. 
We fancy the lace will be more injured on the hooks than it could be if sewed 
on. Lace should never be ironed. It costs but very little to make these 
bars, and they will last a life-time if cai-efully put away when not in use; 
and the curtains can be made to look quite as well as if done up in a French 
laundry, and will last much longer. It costs every year twice the expense 
of this frame to hire curtains done up. 

Convenient Clothes Bars. — The bars are two inches wide by one inch 
thick. Four bars are three feet eleven inches long, and four are one foot 
eleven inches. The rods are dressed out one inch square, and of the follow- 
ing lengths: Four rods four feet long; two rods four feet two inches long; two 
rods thi-ee feet ten inches long; one rod four feet three inches long for the 
center, to project three inches at one end; another rod for the top four feet 
four inches long and to project two inches in order to receive the piece shown 
in the engraving to regulate the height. It can be shut so as to not occupy 
more than a foot in 
width, or spread so as 
to hang a washing on. 
A three-fourth inch 
auger should be used 
in making. Any one 
who can use a plane or 
auger can make them. 




CONVENIENT CLOTHES BAK3. 



To Wash Blank. 

«ts.— Take half a cake 
of soap, cut it into 
small pieces and dis- 
solve it thoroughly in 
hot water. Pour this 
into enough cold water 
to cover the blankets; 
add two ounces of bo- 
rax ( pulverized d i s - 
solves most readily), and put your blankets to soak all night. "In the morn- 
ing take them out and squeeze most of the water out of them and rinse thor- 
oughly in cold water, in which a little borax has been dissolved; put them 
through a second rinsing water and then through the bluing water. Do 
not wring or squeeze them this time, but hang them up to drain and dry. 
The easiest way is to take them, whiJe in the last water, out iinder the 
clothes line, as it is not convenient to 'carry them when tuU of water. It ia 
best not to double them over the line, but hang by one end or side. Of 
course you want a sunny day for drying them nicely, and if yoii put in to 
8oak at night and the next day is storniy, it will not hurt them to soak longer. 
If the wool is very greasy, use more soap and borax. Fine flannels and 
.baby's crocheted skirts and sacques are nice when washed in this way, and 
if you use cold water they will not shrink. "Vary the proportions of soap and 
borax to suit the quantity of water. I .would not advise you to wash colored 
goods in this way, as they might fade. 

■Washing Pliiid._(l) Take one pound of sal soda and half a pound of 
iinSlacked lime, and put them in a gallon of water; boil twenty minutes, let 
il Btand till cool, then drain ofif and put in a small jug or jJir; soak your dirtf 



474" 'TITE ITOVSEirOLdr 

clothes over night, or until they are wet through, then wring them and rub' 
©n plenty of soap, and in one boiler of clothes well covered with water, add 
a teaoupful of the washing fluid; boil half an hour briskly, then wash them 
thoroughly with suds; rinse, and your clothes will look better than by the 
old way of washing twice before boiling. This is an invaluable receipt, and, 
It should be tried by every woman who would save time and labor. 

(2; For washing alpaca, camel's hair, and other woolen goods, and for 
removing marks made on furniture, carpets, rugs, etc.: Four ounces am- 
monia, four ounces white castile soap, two ounces alcohol, two ounces 
glycerine, two ounces ether. Cut the soap fine, dissolve in one quart of 
water over the fire; add four quarts of water. "When nearly cold, add the 
other ingredients. This will make nearly eight quarts. It must be put in a 
bottle and stoppered tight. It vnll keep good any length of time. 

(3) An excellent washing fluid and one that will not injure the finest fab- 
ric is made of one bar of Kussian soap cut up fine, one tablespoonful of kero- 
sene oil, a half cupful of washing soda and one gallon of water. The night 
before washday, put your clothes to soak in warm water. In the morning 
boil the fluid twenty minutes, add whatever cold water is required, for 
■washing the clothes, put in the clothes and boil one-half hour; they are then 
ready to rinse and starch. 

(4) Any one who will take a tablespoonful of kerosene to a gallon of 
•water, along with a small quantity of common yellow soap, brought to a 
boilmg heat, will find a chemical compound which makes clothes as white 
as snow with very little labor. They are first soaked in warm water as long 
as convenient, and then boiled in the mixture half an hour, when the dirt 
■wrings out readily. No odor of the oil remains, and the clothes are perfectly 
clean. 

(5) Add one pound of unslacked lime to three gallons of soft, boiling 
■water. Let it settle and pour off. Then add three pounds of washing-soda, 
and mix with the lime-water. When dissolved, use a large wineglassful to 
each pailful of water. Add one gill of soft-soap to a pailful of water. 

(6) To make washing fluid, take half a pound of sal soda, quarter of » 
pound of borax, dissolved in one gallon of hot water; let it settle; pour ofif in 
bottles. One gill of this mixture \\'ith a pint of soft soap, or half a bar of 
soap dissolved in hot water, is enough for a washing. 

(7) Put one pound of saltpeter into a gallon of water, and keep it in a 
corked jug; two tablespooufuls for a pint of soap. Soak, wash, and boil aa 
usual. This bleaches the clothes beautifully without injuring the fabric. 

To Wash Flannel. — Cut up what soap may be needed and dissolve in 
a skillet of boiling water. Let it stand on the stove and simmer till every 
particle is dissolved. Never rub soap on the flannel, or allow a bit to settle 
on them. Nothing " fulls " flannel so badly as rubbing soap on it, or letting 
bits of it settle on the cloth. A place on which a bit of soap has lodged or 
been rubbed will have a different shade from the rest when dried, making 
ilie whole garment look spotted. 

Take a small tub not quite half full of scalding hot or boiling wat«r. Into 
this pour enough of the dissolved soap to make a rich suds, also some am- 
monia, a teaspoonful and a half to ten or twelve quarts of suds is a fair pro« 
portion. Stir this and the soap into the hot water till it is all thoroughly in- 
corporated. Then put in the flannels. Two or three articles are enough to 
Boak at one time. Press them well under the water, but turn them over in 
the 8ud8 occaeionally -while eoaking. Let tbem remain in the water till it is 



TUP. LATTNDRT: 475 

cool enoTigh to put the bauds iu without discomfort. While washing keep a 
good quantity of water at boiling beat on the range for rinsing purposes, and 
to keep the suds as hot as it can be used. Before one piece is washed and 
ready to be wrung out fill a small tub half full of clear hot water. Into this 
stir a little more " bluing " than would be used for cotton or hnen. Shako 
out each piece as soon as washed, quickly, and throw at once into the hot 
rinsing water. 

Rub the flannel as Uttle as possible, but draw it repeatedly through the 
hands, squeezing rather than rubbing. Harsh rubbing thickens and injures 
the fabric. Never wring with a wringer, as the pressure mats the nap down 
so closely as to destroy all the soft, fleecy look of good flannel. Wring with 
the hands as dry as ijossible, then rinse and wring out again; and when as 
dry as it can be made by hand, snap out, stretch and pull out into the 
true shape; dry in the open air, if possible. Bring in when not quite dry, 
roll up a short time, and iron while still a little damp, so that each part can 
be more readily brought into shape. Pressing, when ironing, is better for 
the flannel than rubbing. It does not make the fabric feel so hard and 
wiry. 

Scarlet flannel is poisonous to some skins if used before washing, and aa 
one is not always sure how one may be afl'ected by i', it is safer to give it % 
scald iu hot water with a Uttle soap — not enough to make a strong suds. 
Let it stand and soak a few minutes, then 
wring out and treat like other flannels. 

Clothes SpriiiUler.—Sprinkling clothes 
previous to ironing by dipping our hand in 
a vessel of water and flirting it over the out- 
spread garment is, to say the least, per- 
formed in a very inefiicient manner, for the clothes sprinkler. 
clothes are unequally dampened. Conse- 
quently, in ironing, some portions of the cloth are quite dry, while other 
parts are quit* too damp. A sprinkler made of tin in the form shown, with 
its lower part perforated with minute holes, is, when desired for use, placed 
in a vessel of water; by its own gravity it fills Avith water; after the sprink- 
ling of each garment it is placed in the vessel to again fill. Old dipper 
handles properly perforated serve an excellent purpose. This arrangement 
can also be used in watering deUcate plants, sprinkling the carpet, etc. 

To Wash liace.—Washing valuable lace should be a labor of love; time 
and patience are important requisites to do it well, and it comes especially 
within the province of the gentlewoman who possesses it. A long wooden 
board, say two yards by one, will be necessary for deep flounces. For 
smaller pieces, one yard by half a yard will do, but the larger size is prefer- 
able, as several pieces can be done on it at the same time. The board must 
be covered with thick flannel, and slightly stuffed to form a thick cushion. 
A good supply of fine, long lace pins, with small round heads, will be re- 
quired, as well as an ivory punch or an ivory knitting-needle, with a round 
point, a lobster's claw or a dog's tooth. Before washing, the yellow staina 
Bometimes observable in old lace should be removed by placing the discol- 
ored portion on a hot iron, covered with linen moistened with a solution orf 
oxalic acid; the lace should afterward be steeped in luke-warm water. Tepid 
water expels the starch or stifi"ening, hot water shrinks the thread, while 
•old water Bets the dirt, Sa>yiQg well auaked the lace, wash it in a lather of 




476 TBE HOUSEHOLD. 

pu'rest white soap and hike-warm water. This must bo dono with greai 
dehcacy of touch, and rubbing must not be attempted; it must be merely 
dabbed or patted, and pressed between the hands gently to and fro in the 
water. When the dirt is well out rinse it several times in lukewarm water, 
and if any stiiinegs is required pass it through water just sweetened with the 
finest white sugar candy. In drying, the moisture must be expelled by gen- 
tle pressure; hand wringing must never be resorted to for any of the finer 
kinds of lace. 

Doing up Men' s L.inen._Many a husband easy to please in all other 
respects, has had his weekly grumble over "the way this collar sets," or 
" how this bosom bulges out!" And many a housewife has tried again and 
again to remedy. these faults. A lady explains the difficulty in the following 



Some time ago my husband used to complain that his linen collars did 
not set nicely in front. There was always a fullness, which in the case of 
standing collars was particularly trying to a man who felt a good deal of 
pride in the dressing of his neck, as it spoiled the effect of his cravat, and 
often left a gap for the display of either the collar band of the shirt or a half 
inch of bare skin. While talking with a practical shirtmaker one day, he 
mentioned his annoyance, and inquii-ed if there was any means of reliev- 
ing it. 

" Yes," answered the man, " the fault hes with your laundress. While 
doing up -your collars she stretches them the wrong way. Damp linen is 
verj' pUable, and a good pull will alter a fourteen-inch collar in the twink- 
ling of an eye. She otight to stretch them crosswise, and not lengthwise. 
Then, in straightening out your shirt bosom, she makes another mistake of 
the same sort. They also ought to be polished crosswise instead of length- 
wise, particularly in the neighborhood of the neck. A lengthwise pull draws 
the front of the neckband up somewhere directly under your chin, where it 
was never meant to go, and of course that spoils the set of your collars. 
With the front of your neckband an inch too high, and your collar an inch 
too long, you have a most undesirable combination." 

The speaker was right. As soon as my husband ordered the necessary 
changes to be made in the methods of our laundry, a wonderful difference 
manifested itself in the appearance of that most important part of his clud 
anatomy, the neck. Let me commend the shirtmaker's hint to other dis- 
tressed women. 

How to Gloss liinen.—lnquiry is frequently made respecting the mode, 
of putting a gloss on linen collars and shirt fronts, Uke that of new hnen. 
This gloss, or enamel, as it is sometimes called, is produced mainly by fric- 
tion with a warm iron, and may be put on Unen by almost any person. The 
linen to be glazed receives as much strong starch as it is possible to charge 
it with, then it is dried. To each pound of starch a piece of sperm or Tyhite 
wax, about the size of a walnut, is usually added. When ready to be ironed, 
the linen is laid upon the table and moistened very lightly on the surface 
with a clean wet cloth. It is then ironed in the usual way with a flat-iron, 
and is ready for the glossing operation. For this purpose a peculiar heavy 
flat-iron, rounded at the bottom, as bright as a mirror, is used. It is pressed 
firmly upon the linen and rubbed with much force, and this frictional action 
puts on the gloss. " Elbow grease " is the piincipal secret connected with 
the art of glossing linen. 



THE LAUNDRY. 47T 

Washing Slade Easy —To save your linen and your labor pour on 
half a -pound of soda two quarts of boiling water, in an earthenware pan; 
take half a pound of soap, shred fine, put it into a saucepan with two quart* 
of cold water, stand it on a fire till it boils, and when perfectly dissolved 
add it to the former, llix it well, and then let it stand till cold, when it hag 
the appeai-auce of a strong jelly. Let your linen be soaked in water, the 
seams and any other dirty part rubbed in the usual way, and remain till llw 
following morning. Get your wash boiler ready, and add to the water abou{ 
a pint basin full. When lukewarm put in your linen and allow it to boi] 
twenty minutes. Rinse it in the usual way, and that is all which is necessary 
to get it clean and kesp it in good color. The above recipe is invaluable ta 
housekeepers. Give it a trial. 

Washing Clothes Witliout Fading. — Wash and peel Irish potatoes, 
and then grate them into cold water. Saturate the articles to be washed in 
this ])otato water, and they can then be washed with soa]» without any run- 
ning of the color. I have taken oil out of carpets saturated with this potato 
water, when simple cold water would make the color run ruinously; hava 
set the color in figured black muslins, in colored merinos', in I'ibbons and 
other silk goods. Often the potato water cleanses sufficiently without the 
use of soap, but the latter is necessary where there is any grease. In such 
cases (without soap) I take the grated potato itself and rub the goods with 
a flannel rag. In woolen goods it is necessary to strain the water, else the 
particles will adhere, but this is not necessary on goods from which they can 
be well shaken. 

A French Way of Washing Clothes— A system of washing' clothes 
has been introduced in some French towns which is worthy of speciaf men- 
tion. Its economy is so great as to greatly reduce the cost. This is the 
process: Two pounds of soap are reduced with a little water to a pulp, which 
having been slightly heated, is cooled in ten gallons of water, to which is 
added one spoonful of turpentine oil and two of ammonia; then the mixture 
is agitated. The water is kept at a temperature which may be borne by the 
hand. In this solution the white clothes are put and left there for two hours 
before washing them with soap, taking care, in. the meantime, to cover the 
tub. The solution may be warmed again and\ised once more, but it will 
be necessary to add a half a. spoonful of tui'pentine oil and another spoonful 
of ammonia. Once washed ^vith soap, the clothes are put in hot water, and 
the blue is applied. 

This process, it is obvious, saves much labor, much time and fuel, while 
it gives the clothes a whiteness much sui^erior to that obtained by any other 
process, and the destructive use of the wash-board is not necessary to clean 
the clothes from impurities. 

Bluing. — Bluing made from the following recipe has been in constant 
use in many famihes for several.. years. It does not injure even. the finest 
clothes, and the cost is trifling compared with any other bluing. The quan- 
tity hei'e noted has been known to last a family of six pers.ms a year: Get 
one ounce of oxalic acid, one ounce of Chinese or Prussian ilue (either will 
do), one quart of soft water. Put in a bottle and shake it well for two or 
three days after mixing it; after this do not shake it at all. If any of it set- 
tles to the bottom you can fill the bottle after using the first water. If when 
you buy it, it is not powdered, ask the druggist to powder it in a mortar for 
you. Unlese the Chinese or' Prussian blue is pure it will not be a succesa; 



478 THE nOUSEnOLB. 

it will precipitate and make the clothes spotted. Ask the drnggist lo waiv 
rant it, for if it is all right it is unequaled by any bluing in the market, and 
it is a matter of great economy to use it; the quantity mentioned costing 
©nly about twenty cents. 

To Wash Shetland Shawls— Make a thin lather of boiled soap and 
water; plunge the ahawl in this, and gently strip it through the hand. It 
must never be rubbed or wrung. "When clean, rinse through water without 
any soap, hang it up for about a minute, shake it gently by each side alter- 
nately, pin it out ou a sheet exactly square, and if the shawl be of a fine 
texture it should be lightly sewed do-\vn to the sheet by the top of the fringe 
to prevent it running up; then go over the whole fringe, drawing each thread 
separate, and laying it straight out. If these directions are carefully at- 
tended to the shawls may be washed many times, and each time appea.r aa 
well as when new. They should never be put into the hands of any but 
those who are accustomed to wash lace. 

Washing Hosiery— Stockings that are stained or troublesome to clean 
are improved by being stretched out on a board and scrubbed with a hand- 
brush. Colored stockings ought to be rinsed quickly and well, and opened 
by pulling them on the hands on each side, and holding them thus until the 
toe is reached, then letting them fall, and pinning them by the top and side 
to the line. Woolen stockings are kept from shrinking if dried on a wooden 
shape of the right size. These are easUy made from shingles of thin boards. 

To Wash Colored Cottons—Boil two quarts of bran in water for half 
an hour, let it cool, then strain it, and mix the liquor with the water in which 
the things are to be washed. They will only require rinsing, as the bran 
will stiffen them sufficiently. For colored muslins, riee-water is very good, 
as it helps to preserve the color; but, although it makes white muslins clear, 
it sometimes gives them a yellow tinge. When used it should previously be 
boiled in the proportion of one potiud of rice to one gallon of water. No 
8oap is required. 

New Mixture Used in Washing Clothes. — In Berlin, Prussia, the 
washerwomen use a mixture of two otinces of spirits of turpentine and one 
quarter ounce of spirits of sal-ammoniac, well mixed together. This mix- 
ture is put into a bucket of warm water, in which half a pound of soap has 
dissolved. Into this mixture the clothes are immersed during the night and 
the next day washed. The most dirty cloth is perfectly freed from all dirt, 
and after two rinsings in pure water, the cloth has not the least smell of the 
turpentine. The cloth does not require so much rubbing, and fine linen is 
much longer preserved by it. 

Whitening Yellow Flannels. — Flannel that has become yellow from 
being badly washed can be whitened by soaking it for two or three hours in 
a lather made of one quarter of a pound of curd soap, two tablespoonfuls 
powdered borax and two tablespoonfuls of carbonate of ammonia, dissolved 
in five or six gallons of water. Boil the soap in small shavings in water till 
dissolved, then add to it the other ingredients. Let the flannel lie in it until 
it looks whiter, then squeeze and press it, and rinse in bluing water, and 
lang in the hot sun to dry. Iron while it is still damp. 

Hints for the Iiaundry. — If you wish your white clothes to look clear 
and pure white, always have ready a kettle of boiling water and eoald tbeia 



THE LAUNDRY. 479 

thoroughly before putting them in the last rinse-water. Clothes washed 
ever so clean will look dingy if 8oa]3y water is allowed to dry into them. 
Scalding removes the suds. Prints should be washed out a piece at a time 
in warm water, rinsed, and hung to dry immediately. But very few colors 
will bear soaking in hot soapsuds. If you want your flannels to full, wash 
them in hoi water, rub well upon a board, using plenty of soap, and rinse in 
cald water. This rule never fails. 

To Take Mildew from Clothes. — Mix soft soap with powdered starch, 
half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon; lay it on the part with a brush; 
let It lay on the grass, day and night, till the stain comes out. Iron molds 
may be removed by the salt of lemons. Many stains may be removed by 
dipping the hnen in sour buttermilk, and then drying it in a hot sun; wash 
it in cold water; repeat this three or four times. Stains, caused by acids, 
may be removed by tying some pearlash up in the stained part; scrape some 
soap in cold, soft water, and boil the linen till the stain is gone. 

Gum Arabic Starch. — Take two ounces fine white gum arable and 
pound it to a powder; next put it into a pitcher and pour on it a pint or more 
oi boiling water, according to the degree ot strength you require^ and then 
having covered it, let it stand all night. In the morning pour it carefully 
from the dregs into a clean bottle; cork and keep it for iise. A tablespoon- 
ful of gum water stirred into a pint of starch that has been made in the 
usual manner will give to lawns (either white or printed) a look of newness 
to which nothing else can restore them after washing. 

For Washing Black or IVavy Blue Liinens, Percales, Etc. — Take 
two potatoes grated into tepid soft water (first having peeled and washed 
them), into which put a teaspooufiil of ammonia. Wash the goods in this 
and rinse in cold blue water. Starch will not be needed, and if at all prac- 
ticable, they should be dried and ironed on the wrong side. It is said that 
an infusion of hay will preserve the colors of buff linens; an infusion of bran 
will do the same for brown hnens and prints. 

To Bleach Linen. — Mix common bleaching powder in the proportion of 
one pound to a gallon of water; stir it occasionally for three days, let it 
settle, and pour it off clear. Then make a lye of one pound of soda to one 
gallon of boiling soft water, in which soak the linen for twelve hours, and 
boQ it half an hour; next soak in the bleaching liquor, made as above; and 
lastly, wash it in the usual manner. Discolored hnen or musUn may be 
restored by putting a portion of bleaching hquor into the tub wherein the 
articles are soaking. 

To Wash La^vns. — Boil two quarts of wheat bran in six quarts or more 
of water half an hour. Strain through a coarse towel, and mix in the water 
in which the muslin is to be washed. Use no soap, if you can help it, and 
no starch. Kinse lightly in clean water. This preparation both cleanses 
and stiffens the lawn. If you can, conveniently, take out all the gathers. 
The skirt should always be ripped from the waist. According to Marion 
Harland these are l^est directions. 

Hiitts to Ironers. —Garments to be ironed in cold starch should be im- 
mediately dipped in boiling water, and ironed as soon as starched. You will, 
in this way, have no trouble with flats sticking to the cloth. Another goo<i 
ira^ is to wet the starch with weak cold suds made from white aoap. 



180 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

Washing Woolens— If you do not wish to have white woolens shrinli 
when washed, make a good suds of hard soap, and wash the flannels in it. 
Do not rub woolens like cottou cloth, but simjoly squeeze them between tha 
hands, or slightly pound them with a clothes pounder. The suds used 
should be strong, and the woolens should be rinsed in warm water. By 
rubbing flannels on a board, and rinsing them in cold water, they soon 
become very thick. 

Scorched liinen. — Peel and slice two onions; extract the juice by pound- 
ing and squeezing; add to the jnic6 half an ounce ol cut fine white soap, two 
ounces of fuller's earth, and half a pint of vinegar; boil all together. When 
cool, spread it over the scorched linen and let it dry on; then wish and boil 
out the hnen, and the spots will disappear, unless burned so badly as to 
break the thread. 

To W^hiten Linen. — Stains occasioned ty fruit, iron n;st, and other 
similal- causes, may be removed by applying to the parts injured a weak 
solution of the chloride of lime — the cloth having been well washed — or of 
soda, oxalic acid, or salts of lemon, in warm water. The parts subjected to 
this operation should be subsequently well rinsed in soft clear warm water, 
without soap, and be immediately dtied in the sun. * " . 

To Prevent Streaking. — Do not let your laundress or washerwoman 
put clothes into the bluing water until they have been well shaken; if tossed 
m while folded, as they come through the wringer they are almost certain to 
be streaked -svith fcluing, and although after repeated washings these streaks 
will come out, every one knows how aggravating it is to use napkins or 
handkerchiefs that show traces of careless washing. 

Washing Merinos and Silk. — The following directions for washing 
merinos, lambswool and silk under-clothing may be useful: Use one pound 
of dissolved soap in four gallons of warm water, in which well rinse the 
articles to be washed, drawing them repeatedly through the hand, wiing 
them as dry as possible to remove the soap; rinse them again briskly in 
clean, lukewarm water; wring and stretch them to their proper shape, and 
dryin open air if possible. 

To Wash a Muslin Dress. — Make a good lather, and wash .the musUn 
in cold water, never putting it into warm water, even to rinse it. If the 
muslin is green, add a wineglassful of vinegar to the water in which it is 
rinsed; if lilac, the same quantity of ammonia. For black and white muslins, 
use a small quantity of sugar of lead. 

To Reniove Rust fi-oin Linen. —Dissolve ah. ounce of oxalic acid in a 
pint of water, apply liberally to the spots of iron ruat, then expose them to 
the sun's rays for half a day. The same will remove ink stains, but in 
eithor case it must have the first chance— that is, before soap suds or any 
other apphcation. Label -the bottle poison! 

To Wash a Cambric Handkerchief. — To wash a fine cambric hand- 
kerchief, embroidered in colored silks, so that the colors do not run, the 
■ secret is to wash in a soap lather very quickly, wring thoroughly and thea 
iron, so that it dries at once. Thei-e should be no soaking,, and the em- 
broidered corner should be kept out of the water as much aa possible. A 
little alum in the water will make th« process more sure. 



^ZEE LAUNDSr. 481 

T« Pre-rent Spotting. — A teaspoonful of black pepper ^ill prevent gray 
or buff linens from spotting, if stirred into the first water in which they are 
washed. It will also prevent the colors running, when washing black or 
colored cambrics or mushns, and the water is not injured by it, but just aa 
soft as before the pepper was put in. 

To Prevent Lumps in starcli. — To keep flour starch from lumping, 
mix the flour with water first, then remove the boiling water from the Sre 
for a minute before stirring in the mixture, or it will cook into lumps before 
it reaches the bottom. It is well toj remember this in making gruel, com- 
starch, etc. 

Iron Rust. — Iron rust, it is said, may be removed by tying a little cream 
of tartar in the stained spot before putting the cloth to boil. If this does not 
succeed, thicken lemon juice with equal parts of salt and starch, add some 
soft soap, apply the mixture to the cloth, and lay it in the hot sun. Renew 
the application sevei'al times. 

To Alalce Potato Starcli.—Grate six medium-sized potatoes and mix 
thoroughly >vith one gallon of water; strain through a coarse towel, let settle, 
drain off the water, and turn on another gallon of clear water, and let settle 
again; drain again, put in an earthen dish, and set in a warm place (not too 
warm) to dry. Use same as oorn-staroh for starching clothes. 

To-*vels Slionld be Tlioronglily Dried. — Many persons iron towels, 
fold them and put them away before they are thoroughly dry. This is an 
error, and sometimes leads to results not expected. In their damp condi- 
tion there is a mold which forma on them called oidium, one variety of which 
causes numerous skin diseases. 

To Save Soap. — The addition of three-quarters of an ounce of borax to 
a pound of soap, melted in without boiling, makes a saving of one-half in 
the cost of Soap, and three-fourths the labor of washing, and improves the 
whiteness of the fabrics; besides, the usual caustic effect is removed, and 
the hands are left with a pecuUar soft and silky feelinj^, leaving nothing 
more to be desired by the most ambitious washerwoman. 

To "Wiiiteu YelloTv Ijinen. ■ -Linen garments which have become yel- 
low from time, may be whitened by being boiled in a lather made of milk and 
pure white soap, a pound of the latter to a gallon of the former. After the 
boiling process the hnen should be twice rinsed, a little blue being added 
to the last water used. 

Alum in Starcli. — For starching muslins, ginghams, and calicoes, dis- 
solve a piece of alum the size of a shellbark, for every pint of starch, and 
add to it. By so doing the colors will keep bright for a long time, which is 
very desirable when d»e«se8 must be often washed, and the cost is but a 
trifle. 

To Prevent Calico from Fading—To render the colors of cotton 
fabric permanent, dissolve three gills of salt in four quarts of water; put the 
ealioo in while hot, and leave it tUl cold; it will not fade by subsequent 



To Prevent the Iron firoui Sticlcing. — A spoonful of kerosene oil pQ< 
into cold starch will prevent the iron from sticking. 



482 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

To kestore Faded Blue Stockings — Pale blue Btockinpjs which hare 
faded can have the color restored by dipping into hot water in which com- 
mon bluing has been poured and some lumps of alum are dissolved. Old 
white stockings can be colored in this way and do a good deal of service. 

To "WasU Colored Table Linen. — To wash colored table linen use 
tepid water, with a little powdered borax; wash quickly, using but httJe 
soap, and rinse in tepid water containing boiled starch; diy in the shade, 
and when almost dry, iron. 

To Cleanse Black Caslinn. -e. — To clean black cashmere, wash in hot 
suds in which a little boi'ax has been placed. Einse in bluing water — very 
blue — and iron while damp. If carefully done the material will look equal 
to new. 

To Clean Rusty Flat-Irons. —Beeswax and salt will make your rusty 
flat-irons as clean and as smooth as glass. Tie a lump of wax in a rag and 
keep it for tkat purpose. When the irons are hot, rub them first with the 
"wax rag, then scour them with a paper or cloth sprinkled with salt. 

To Clean AVhite Worsted Goods. — For cleansing white worsted hoods, 
and clouds, or nubias, rub them thoroughly with wheat flour, then shake 
■well, to remove the flour, and they will have all the clear, airy appearanc» 
of new. 

To Iron a Calico Dress. — Never iron a calico dress on the right side; if 
ironed smoothly on the wrong side there will be no danger of white spots 
and gloss, which gives a new dress " done up " for the first time the appear- 
ance of a time- worn garment. 

For Taking Out Scorcli. _If a shirt bosom or any oth«r article haa 
beeu scorched in ironing, lay it where bright sun will fall directly on it. £t 
will take it entirely out. 



HINTS AND HELPS. 



For the Removal of Stains and Spots — The following methods of re- 
teoving spots and stains from clothing are given on the authority of high 
(^emical and textile authorities. They are believed to be trustworthy: 

Matter Adhering MecJianioallij. —Be2itmg, brushing and currents of water, 
either on the upper or under side. 

Gum, Sugar, Jelly, etc. — Simply washing with water at a hand heat. 

Grease.— White goods, wash with soap or alkaline lyes. Colored cottons, 
wash with lukewarm soap lyes. Colored woolens, the same or ammonia. 
Silks, absorb the grease with French chalk or fuller's earth, and dissolve' 
away \Tith benzine or ether. 

OU Colors, Varnish, and Besins. — On white or colored linens, cottons or 
woolens, use rectified oil of turpentine, alcohol, lye and soap. On silks, use 
benzine, ether and mild soap, very cautiously. 

Stearine.— In all cases, use strong, pure alcohol. 

Vegetable Colors, Fruit, Red Wine and Red Ink. — On white goods, sulphur 
fumes or chlorine water. Colored cottons and woolens, wash with lukewarm 
eoap-lye or ammonia. Silk, the same, but more cautiously. 

Alizarine Inks. — White goods, tartaric acid, the more concentrated the 
older the spots are. On colored cottons and woolens, and on silks, dilute 
tartaric acid should be applied cautiously. 

Blood and Albuminoid Matters. — Steeping in lukewarm water. If pepsin 
or the juice of Carica papaya can be procured, the spots are first softened 
with lukewarm water, and then either of these substances is appUed. 

Iron Spots and Black Ink. — White goods, hot oxaUc acid, dilute muriatic 
acid, with Uttle fragments of tin. On fast dyed cottons and woolens, citric 
acid cautiously and repeatedly applied. Silks, impossible. 

Lime and Alkalies. — White goods, simple washing. Colored cottons, 
woolens and silks are moistened-, and very dilute citric acid is applied with 
the finger end. 

Acids, Vinegar, Sour Wuie, Must, Sour Fruils. — White goods, simple 
washing, followed up by chlorine water if a fruit color accompanies the acid. 
Colored cottous, woolens and silks ai"e very carefully moistened with dilute 
ammonia, with the finger end. (In case of delicate colors, it will be found 
preferable to make some prepared chalk into a thin paste with water, and 
apply it to the spots.) 

'In, nan from Cheslnuts, Green Walnuts, etc., or Leaihe)\—'^h.\i&goo&.&,hoi 
chlorine water and concentrated tartaric acid. Colored cottons, woolens, 
and silks, apply dilute chlorine water cautiously to the spot, washing it 
away, and reapplying it several times. 

Tar, Cart-wheel Grease, MnrJures of Fat, Resin, Carbon and Acetic Acid. 
— On white goods, soap and oil turpentine, alternating with streams of water. 
Colored cottons and woolens, rub in with lard, let lie, soap, let he again, and 
treat alternating with oil of turpentine and water. Silks the same, moro 
earefully, using benzine instead of oil of turpentine. 



484 THE nOTTSEEOLB, 

Sco7'chhig. —White goods, rub well with linen rags, clipped in chlorine 
wat&r. Colored cottons, re-dyo if possible; in woolen, raise a fresh surface. 
Silks, no remedy. 

Coloring Recipes. — In using the following recipes remember that the 
goods should always be wet in hot soapsuds before they are put into the 
dye. Be very careful to have the materials thoroughly dissolved and keep 
the dye hot, constantly stirring the goods, lifting . them up to the air and 
tuiTiing them over. 

Broum. — For five pounds of goods allow one pound of catechu and two 
ounces of alum, dissolved in sufficient hot water to wet the goods. Put this 
in a brass kettle or tin boiler on the stove, and when it is boiling hot put in 
the goods and remove it from the stove. Have ready four ounces of bi- 
chromate of potash dissolved in hot water in a wooden pail. Drain the 
goods from the catechu and dip them into the bi-chromate of potash, then 
back into the catechu agam. Proceed in this way, dipping into each alter- 
nately until the required shade is produced. This colors a nice brown on 
cotton, woolen, or silk. 

Blue {on cotlon). — Dissolve four ounces of CQjiperas in three or four gal- 
lons of water. Soak the goods thoroughly in this, and then drain and trans- 
fer to a solution of two ounces of prussiate of potash in the same quantity of 
water. Lift the goods from this and put them to drain, then add to the 
prussiate of potash solution one-half ounce of oil of vitriol, being careful to 
pour in a few drops only at a time; stir thoroughly, return the goods, and 
as soon as of the desired shade linse them in clear water and dry. This 
will color five pounds. 

Yellow {on cotton). — For five pounds of goods, dissolve one pound ot 
sugar of lead in enough water to thoroughly saturate the goods, and one- 
half pound of bi-chromate of potash in the same quantity of water in a sepa- 
rate vessel. Dip the goods well, and drain in each alternately until the de- 
sired shade is secured, then rinse and dry. If an orange is desired, dip the 
yellow rags into strong, hot Ume water before rinsing. 

Green {on cotton). — First color blue, and then proceed as in yellow. 

Turkey Red {on cotton). — For four pounds of cloth, take one pound of 
sumac in enough soft water to cover the cloth in a tub, soak over night, 
wring out and rinse in soft water. Take two ounces of muriate of tin in clear 
soft water, put in the cloth and let it remain fifteen minutes. Put three 
pounds of bur wood in cold soft water, in a boiler on a stove, and nearly 
boil, then partly cool, then put in the cloth and boil one hour. Take out 
the cloth and add to the water in the boiler one ounce of oil of vitriol, put 
in the cloth and boil fifteen minutes. Rinse in cold water. 

Bark Brown.— Fox dark brown, four ounces of blue vitriol, two pounds 
of cutch, and six ounces of bi-chromate of potash. Tliis is for ten pounds of 
cloth. Put the cutch in an iron kettle, in cold water enough to cover the 
cloth, heat until dissolved, dissolve the vitriol, and add it to the dye, put in | 
the cloth and scald it an hour or more. Wring it from the dye, dissolve the 
bi-chromate of potash in boiling water in brass, and put in the cloth for 
filteen minutes. 

Canary {on co</oJi)-— Take one-half pound of sugar of laad, and dissolve 
it in hot water. Dissolve one-fourth pound of bi-chromate of potash in cold 
water in a wooden vessel. Dip the goods first in the lead water, then in the 
potash, so continuing until the color suits. This quantity will color fivo 
pounds of rags. 



BINTS AND HELPS. 485 

Several "Ways io Clean and Polisk Brass or Copper. — 1. First l"e- 
iiiove all tho stains, by vubbiug the brass with a flannel dipiied in vinegar; 
then polish with a leather and dry rotten-stone. 

2. Rub the surface of the metal with rotten-stone and sweet oil, then rub 
off with a piece of cotton flannel, and polish with a piece of soft leather. A 
solution of oxalic acid rubbed over brass soon removes the tarnish, rendei'- 
ing the metal bright. The acid must be washed ofl' with water, and the 
brass rubbed with whiting and soft leather. A mixture of muriatic acid and 
alum dissolved in water imparts a golden color to bi-ass articles that are 
steeped in it for a few seconds. 

3. Brass ornaments should be fii-st washed with a strong lye made of 
rock alum, in the proportion of ono ounce of alum to a pint of water. When 
dry, rub with leather and fine tiipoli. This will give to brass the brilliancy 
of gold. 

4. Copper utensils or brass articles may be as thoroughly cleaned and 
look as bright by washing them with a solution of salt and vinegar as by 
using oxalic acid, and the advantage of rimning no risk of poisoning either 
children or careless persons. Use as much salt as the vinegar will dissolve, 
and apply with a woolen rag, rubbing vigorously, then polish with pulver- 
ized chalk, and the article \vill look like new, with little labor, as the acid of 
the vinegar is very efificieut in removing all stains from either copper or 
brass. 

5. The quickest and easiest way to brighten copper or brass, is to wet a 
cloth in a strong solution of oxalic acid, and rub tUl it is clear, then dip a 
dry flannel into trijwli or prepared chalk, and rub it well. 

6. A good paste for cleaning brass may be made by mixing one part ox- 
alic acid and six parts rotten stone, with equal parts of traiu oil and spirits 
of turpentine, malung a thick paste of the whole. 

7. Clean brass with a solution made by dissohdug one tablespoonful ox- 
alic acid and two tablespoonfuls tripoli in a half pint of soft water. Apply 
with a woolen rag, and after a few mim;tes wipe dry and polish. 

8. Wash with warm water to remove grease, then rub \vith a mixture of 
rotten-stone, soft soap, and oil of turpentine, mixed to the consistence of 
stiff putty. The stone should be powdered veiyfine and sifted; and a quan- 
tity of the mixture may be made sufficient to last for a long time. A little of 
the above mixture should be mixed with water, rubbed over the metal, then 
rubbed briskly with a diy, clean rag or leather, and a beautiful polish will 
be obtained. 

Protection Against Mot lis— In May the cloth es-moth begins to fly 
about our rooms. It is a small, light, buff-colored " miller," dainty and 
beautiful on close inspection. Its highest mission seems to be to teach us 
to set our affections only upon incorruptible treasures which " moth and 
rust cannot destroy." But it is necessary to keep a sharp lookout for the 
safety of our fure and flaimels, and we must wage war upon it. In the first 
place we must carefully put away everything we can, upon which it will lay 
its eggs. If we pack away our furs and flannels early in May, before the 
moth has begun to lay its eggs, and leave them in boxes and bags so tight 
that the flying moth cannot squeeze in, no further precaution is necessary. 
Clean paper bags are recommended for this purpose — those used for flour 
and meal bags. They should be without boles or opening anywhere. These 
bags, when filled and closed firmly, may be put away on closet shelves or iq 
loose boxes, without danger to theii- coutenta, so far as moths are COQcerno^. 



48C TUE norrsEUOLT). 

without need of camphor or other strozig odors to drive moths away. Fnrs 
are usually sold in boxes in which they may be kept. Beat them well when 
you tinally put them away for the season. If you delay putting them away 
until June, examine the furs well, and shake and beat them very thoroughly, 
in order that any moth eggs that may possibly have been laid in them may 
be thoroughly removed or killed. Furs sealed up early in May need no 
camphor or tobacco or other preventive. Muff and tippet boxes should be 
tied up securely in bags, or made safe by mending holes and pasting a strip 
of paper around the juncture of the cover with the box below, so as to close 
all openings. Woolen garments must not hang in closets through the sum- 
mer, in parts of the country where moths abound. They should be packed 
away in tight trimks or boxes, or sealed up in bags. Woolen blankets must 
be well shaken and carefully put away, unless they are in daily use. Early 
in June the larvie of the moth begin their ravages, and then, unless you 
dwell in places where moths arc not found, look sharp, or you will find 
Bome precious thing that you have forgotten — some good coat unused for a 
few weeks, or the woolen cover of a neglected piano, already more or less 
riddled by the voracious moths. It is their nature to eat until they have 
grown strong enough to retu-e from the eating business, and go into the 
chrysalis condition. 

Some things cannot be well packed away in tight boxes and bags, and 
among. these it is well to scatter small lumps of camphor or clippings of 
Russia leather. Soine use tobacco, though I think camphor is usually pre- 
ferred. It is said that powdered black pepper, scattered under thej edge of 
carpets, will preserve them from attacks. 

Several Ways to Destroy Ants. — Put red pepper in the places the 
ants frequent the most, and scrub the shelves or drawers with strong 
carbolic soap. 

A small bag of sulphur kept in a drawer or cupboard, or saucers of olive 
tar set where they are, will drive them away. 

A string wet in kerosene oil and tied around stigar barrels, lard cans, 
preserves, etc., is said to keep away ants. The stiing should be wet with 
the oil every few days. 

Ants may be driven away by putting Scotch snuff wherever they are in 
the habit of going for food, 

A small spray of wormwood if placed on buttery shelves, will, it is said, 
destroy or drive away ants. 

Persons who are troubled with ants in their houses may get rid of them 
by rubbing the shelves with gum camphor. Two applications ^vill be 
eufiicient, with a week intervening. 

A strong solution of carbolic acid and water, poured into holes, kills all 
the ants it touches, and the survivors immediately take themselves otf. 

Ants that frequent houses or gardens may be destroyed by taking flour 
of brimstone half a pound, and potash four ounces; and set thfem in an iron 
or earthen pan over the fire until dissolved and united; afterward beat them 
to a powder, and infuse a little of this powder in water— and wherever you 
sprinkle it the ants will die or leave the place. 

Eed ants may be banished from a pantry or store-room by strewing the 
shelves with a small quantity of cloves, either whole or ground. We use the 
former, as not being so likely to get in the food placed upon the shelves. 
The cloves should be renewed oocasionally, as after a-time they lose their 
Btrength ajid de^aj". 



ni27TS A271} TIJELPS. iSl 

To Slake ai» ^olian Harp. — This iustrunient, wHicn placed in a win- 
dow in a draft of air, produces the most pleasing music. We here give 
directions whereby any one may construct one for himself: Length, thirty- 
two inclies by six inches; depth, one and three-quarter inches. The strings 
are attached to the small hooks at the end, corresponding to the pegs. The 
strings must be about the thickness of the first string of the violin. These 
strings answer well, but if too expensive the small gut used by whip manu- 
faoturers may be used. The bottom plank of the harp should be oak, three- 
quartei-8 of an inch thick, length three feet, breadth ten inches. The bridges 
may be any sonorous wood (but steel will give the best sound), half an inch 
in height, cut angular to a blunt point. They must not be flattened down, 
but must be made to fit very flat to the bottom board, or it will jar and never 
play well. This is the great defect in all harps made by amateurs. The 
ends of the hari)S should be oak, one inch thick, and must be fixed very 
firmly to the bottom board, but not with metal screws or glue; and in these 
the pins are fixed for tightening the strings. Use fiddle pins, half at each 
end. The top should be half an inch thick, and sycamore wood is the best, 
and may be polished; it should be very slightly fastened on, for it has to be 
removed every timfe to tune. Common catgut does nearly as well aa Ger- 
man. Get as thick a string as you can for one side, and a thin one for the 
other; then graduate them from the thick to the thin, so as not to have two 
alike. They are in general tuned to treble C, but it is preferable to tune to 
low C, and then each string an octave higher. This is easily altered, if 
desu-able. The instrument must be very strong in all respects, for the 
strings exert almost incredible strength. The position for placing 
the hai-p at the window to be mfh the upper surface inclined towards 
the draft of air. 

Staining Woods. — Rosewood. — Boil eight ounces of logwood in three 
pints of water until reduced to half; apply it boiling hot two or three times, 
letting it dry each time. Put in the streaks with a camel's hair brush dipped 
in a solution of copperas and verdigris in a decoction of logwood. 

Light Mahogany. — Brush over the surface with diluted nitrous acid, and 
when dry apply ■n-ith a Sv~'ft brush the following: Four ounces of dragon's 
blood, one . ounce of carbonate of soda, thi'ee pinto of alcohol. Let it stamd 
in a warm place, shake it frei^uently and then strain. 

To Stain Musical Instrumeyits. — Boil one pound of ground Brazilwood 
in three quarts of water for ime hoiir; strain it, then add half an ounce of 
cochineal; boil a half hour longer. This makes a crimson stain. 

Ebony. — Wash the wood stveral times with a solution of sulphate of iron; 
let it dry, then apply a hot dec action of logwood and nutgalls. When dry 
wipe it with a wet sponge; and ^7hen di-y again jjolish it with Unseed oil. 

Black Walnut. — Pine may be stained to represent black walnut in the 
following manner: Put pulverized asphaltum into a bowl with about twice its 
bulk of turpentine and set where it is warm, shaking fi-om time to time until 
dissolved; then strain and apply with either a cloth or a stiff brush. Try a 
little first, and if the stain be too dark, thin it with turpentine. If desirable 
to bring out the grain still more, give a coat of boiled oil and turpentine. 
When the wood is thoroughly dry, polish with a mixture of twcT parts shellac 
vamishand one part boiled oil. Apply by putting a few drops at a time on 
a cloth and rubbing briskly over the wood. 

Oak. — A very fair oak stain may be produced by equal parts of potash 
and pearlasb, aa^ two ouncea of each to about a quart of water. K^ep it 



488 THE nOUSEHOLB. 

corked tip in a bottle, and it is always ready for use; if it strikea too deep a 
color, add more water. 

Staining with Iodine. — Wood may accjiiiro an oak, walnut, or cherry tree 
color by staining it with ordinary tincture of iodine diluted with spirit until 
the exact shade is obtained. While shellac must be added to the iodine 
solution if the stain is to be made permanent, or the wood after the stain is 
applied may be French polished. The iodine may be laid on with a rag or a 
brush. 

Purple.— Hoa a pound of chip logwood in three quarts of water for an 
hour; then add four ounces of alum. 

Blue.— Boil four parts of alum with eighty-five parts of water. 

Hanging "Wall Paper. — There are many housekeepers who have one 
or more rooms they would like to re-paper, but are kept from doing as much 
of this kind of work as they would like on account of the expense of getting 
a professional paper-hanger to put the paper on. Any one who takes the 
pains to notice, can soon learn to put on paper as well as the best paper- 
hanger. In the first place, you can often find among the cheap papers one 
or more lots that look just as well, and are of as good quality as the more 
expensive ones. When you have got your paper home, trim off the edge on 
the right side, as it is better for an inexperienced hand to commence at the 
left side of a door or window, and go toward the left. When you ai-e ready 
to begin, make your paste with boiling water, and let it boil about as long as 
common starch, and it should be no thicker than starch after it is cold, Let 
it cool and strain it through a common salt sack to take out the lumps. 
Then take a piece of washing soda as large as a walnut with the hull olf, 
dissolve it in water, and put it in the paste and you need not use any glue or 
anything else whatever. Let an assistant hold the paper up to the wall, so 
that it will match with the piece already on, and cut it off the right length, 
always half an inch short, as it will stretch that much. Lay the paper 
wrong side up on a large table; let yoiir help hold one end while you put on 
the paste quickly and evenly with a whitewash brush. Be siire to get evciy 
part covered. Take hold of the iipper end, while your assistant takes the 
lower end, fasten it at the top, then sweep it down with a soft broom or 
brush, pick all windy places with a pin, and pat gently with a soft cloth. If 
it should become fast at the bottom too soon for the rest, pull it out carefully 
from the wall and replace it again. Paper put on with washing soda in the 
paste will not crack and come loose on greasy walls, as it often does without it. 
Try this plan, and your rooms will look nice and new with but little expense. 

Table Etiqnette. — There is nothing so disagreeable as careless and 
untidy table-manners; and to acquire graceful and pleasing habits while 
eating, sometimes takes years of practice. But it can be done; we see every- 
where ladies and gentlemen, and sometimes children, who show their good 
breeding by their conduct at the table. To begin to make yourselves Uke 
these, the first thing to do is to sit down and think how you really behave at 
the table. Are your hands and nails, and face clean, and hair brushed 
back smoothly ? Do you seat yourself quietly, and remember to put on your 
napkin ? Do you sometimes put your knife in your mouth, instead of a fork 
or spoon ? Do you pour your tea in your saucer, instead of drinking froi* 
the cup ? How do you pass your plate, if you are to be helped a second 
time ? The best way is to hold your knife or fork in your hand, and then it 
■mil not fall oa tha clotb. 



niNTS AlTD HE LPS. 489 

Then about passing articles of food: Do you rcaoli over another person's 
plate, or staud up to reach something not near at hand, and knock over a 
glass or cruet in the attempt ? Do you eat fast and loud, and put largo 
pieces in your mouth, or speak with food unchewed, or pick your teeth ? 
Oh, I hope none of these, for any one of them would make you appear im- 
polite and uncultivated. And then you remember not to whisper, ya^ivn, or 
stretch, or touch tlie hair, or blow the nose. If it is necessary to use your 
handkerchief, do it so quietly that no one will notice it; but this should be 
done before you come to the table. And if there are bones, cherry pits, and 
things that cannot be swallowed, do not spit them on the plate, but put them 
on your spoon, and then on your plate. 

Will you think of these hints the next time you sit down to your dinner, 
and avoid them ? And remember that courtesy at the table is as indispensa- 
ble as away from it, and if you practice it at home, you will not have to put 
it on when you are away, it will be so natural and easy for you. 

To Can Corn, Beans, Etc—After Stripping off the husks and picking 
off the silk, slice off carefully about half or two-thirds of the corn, with a 
sharp knife; then, with the back of the blade, press or scrape off that part ol 
the kernels left on the cob. This prevents cutting of the cob. Fill the can 
about one-third, and with the small end of a potato masher, or other stick, 
gently pack it down; put in more corn and pack again, and continue until 
the can is full to the very top. Put on the rubber, and screw the top on 
very tight. Put some cloth, hay or straw in the bottom of the wash boiler 
and on it set (or lay) the filled cans. Fill the boiler M-ith cold water, being 
careful to cover the cans with it; set over the fire, and boil for three hours 
or more. Do not fear that the cans will burst, even if very tightly screwed 
down. When you take them out, try if it is possible to screw the cover on 
more securely. After the jars are cool, wrap each one in paper, and set 
away in the dark. This is essential. This process succeeds perfectly, 
absolutely without a failure. Succotash is put up in the same way, and so 
are green beans and string beans. Peas you cannot pack — shake down very 
closelj'- put on rubbers, screw on cover, and b;.^ in the same manner as 
directed for the corn. They will shrink in the can — corn will not if packed 
hard. 

Furniture Polish. — (1) Take beeswax and turpentine in the proportion 
of two ounces of the former to half a pint of the latter. Put the turpentine 
in a tin basin and cut the beeswax in small pieces and put in, then put in 
the oven when not very hot, so it (the wax) will gradually melt; stir it con- 
Btantly. Apply to the furniture with a piece ef woolen rag (a piece of broad- 
cloth is best for the purpose), and have another piece to rub with. Don't 
be afraid to use plenty of " elbow grease." 

(2) One-third of spirits of wine, one-third of vinegar and one-third of 
sweet oil; or rather more of the last. Shake the bottle well daily for three 
weeks; it is then fit for use, but the longer it is kept the better it ia. The 
furniture must be rubbed till the pohsh is dry. Use every two or three 
months, and rub the furniture over daily when dusted. For dining-room 
tables and sideboards, use it every week; it makes them beautiiully 
bright. 

(3) If you wish one of the simplest and best, get a pint bottle and fill it 
with equal parte of boiled linaeed oil and kerosene oil; any druggist has the 
former; mix and appl^ with a flaanel, and rub dr/ tfitU ^ eecoud flaimel. 



iOO TEE HOUSEHOLD. 

It will remove all scratches and white marks made by bruising. Destroy 
the rags or keeiD in o])en sight, as oiled cloths have l)een known to ignite 
spontaneously. 

(4) Into one pint of linseed oil put half a pound of treacle and a glass of 
gin; then, stirring well, apply sparingly with a linen rag, and if rubbed until 
quite dry with linen cloths, this mixture will produce a splendid glosa. 
Eating tables should be covered with oilcloth or baize, to prevent staining, 
and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are removed. 

(5) Make a mixture of three parts of linseed oil and one part spirits of 
turpentine. It not only covers the disfigured surface, but restores wood to 
its original color, and leaves a lustre on the surface. Put on with a woolefl 
cloth, and when dry rub down with woolen. 

(6) A nice furniture polish is made by mixing boiling linseed oil And 
white varnish, using one-fourth varnish to three-fourths of the oil. Apply 
with a flannel, rubbing thoroughly, and afterwards rubbing with dry flannel 
or chamois slun. 

(7) Equal quantities of common wax, white wax, white soap, in the pro- 
portion of one ounce of each to pint water. Cut the above ingredients fine, 
and dissolve over a fire until well mingled, 

A Very Cheap Bed Covering—The Amej-ican AgncuUurist says: 
Many years ago, in one of the severe winters when there was much hardship 
among the poor, a city paper suggested that old newspapers, spread over 
the bed, would form an excellent substitute for blankets and coverlets. 
This brought upon the journal a great deal of harmless ridicule from other 
papers, but it brought comfort to many a poor family. In the matter of bed- 
clothing, especially, we are apt to associate warmth with weight, and do not 
consider that there is no warmth in the coveiings themselves, but that they 
merely prevent the heat of the body from passing off. Whatever is a poor 
conductor of heat will make a warm covei'ing. Paper itself is a poor con- 
' ductor, but still poorer are the thin layers of air that are confined when two 
or three newspapers are laid upon one another. A few newspapers laid over 
the bed will keep one much warmer than some of the heavy, close woven 
blankets. We do not propose newspapers as a substitute for blankets and 
comforters, but it is one of those makeshifts that it is well to know. In 
traveling one may, by the aid of a few papers, secure a comfortable rest in a 
thinly-clad bed, and if we cannot afi'ord to give a destitute family a blanket 
or a comforter, we may show them how to increase the usefulness of their 
thin coverings by stitching a few layers of newspapers between them. It 
may be well to remind those who grow window plants that, by remo\'ing 
them away from the window and arranging a cover of newspapers over them,, 
they may be preserved from harm in severely cold nights. With the plants 
as with ourselves, it is not so much that cold comes in as that the heat goes 
off, and often a slight protection will prevent the escape of heat, 

Wliat an Old HouseUeeper has Learned. — "Never too old to 
learn," and here are a few of the things we have learned at our house: 

That ripe cucumbers make a good sweet pickle. 

That a piece of cork is better than cloth for applying brick to knives. 

That clabbered milk is better than water for freshening salt fish. 

That people who chew plenty of good beef and eschew pork are sensible. 

That apples which take a long while to bake, should have a little water 
ia the pan. 



BINTS AND HELPS. 491 

That salt pork ■will be nearly as nice as fresh, if soaked in sweet milk and 
water, equal parts. 

That if we wish to prolong our lives we should always put one day 
between washing and ironing. 

That liver should be thrown into boiling water after being shced thin and 
then fried in lard or dripping. 

That pie crust will not be soggy if it is brushed over with the white of aq 
egg before the fruit is put in. 

That half a cup of vinegar in the water will make an old fowl cook neai-ly 
as quick as a young one, and does not injui-e the flavor in the least. 

That a tough beefsteak may be made eatable by mincing it pretty fine 
with a chopping -knife and cooking quickly in a pot with a close cover, to 
pi-eveut the steam from escaping. 

To Keep Apples. — 1. Having . selected the best- fruit, wipe it perfectly 
dry with a fine cloth, then take a jar of suitable size, the inside of which ia 
thoroughly coated with cement, and having placed a layer of fine sand per- 
fectly dry at the bottom, place thereon a layer of the fruit — apples or pears, 
as the case may be — but not so close as to touch each other, and then a 
layer of sand; and iu this way proceed till the vessel is full. Over the upper 
layer of fruit a thick stratum of sand may be spread and Ughtly pressed 
down with the hands. In this manner choice fruit perfectly ripe may be 
kept for almost any length of time, i^the jar be placed in a situation free 
from moisture. 

2. Take fine dry sawdust, j^referably that made by a cu-cular saw from 
well seasoned hard wood, and place a thick layer on bottom of a barrel. 
Then place a layer of apples, not close together and not close to staves of 
the barrel. Put sawdust liberally over and around, and proceed until a 
bushel and a half, or less, are so packed in each "barrel. They are to be 
kept in a cool place. 

The Best Kind of Beds— Do you sleep upon a feather bed ? We hope 
not. Years ago a feather bed was supposed to be an important part of a 
housekeeping outfit. If you have a feather bed, put it in the spare room, 
lock the door, and loose the key. A curled-haii- mattress of the best quaUty 
makes one of the most desirable couches, but curled hair is expensive and 
all cannot afford it. The next best thing, indeed, almost as good, is afforded 
by that plant, so dear to every American farmer — Indian corn. "Whoever 
grows corn, jieed not lack for the most comfortable of beds. We are aware 
that ticks are sold filled with husks with the stem part left on. A bed of 
this kind is not the kind, of husk bed we have in mind. To make the very 
best possible husk bed, save the husks from the green corn as it ia daily 
used. The husks are coarse, and should be sht. An old-fashioned hatchet, 
where there is such an implement, answers well, but a substitute can be 
made by driving a few large nails -through a board, and filing them sharp. 
Drawing the husks across these will slit them into shreds an inch or less 
wide. An old carving fork may be used to slit the husks. Then put them 
to dry in a garret or some any loft. If the green-corn season is past, then, 
at the regular husking of the field crop, secure a stock for mattresses. Re- 
ject the weather-worn outer huskSj taking only the thin, papery ones. 

Axtificial Gold. — This is a new metallic alloy which is no"w very exten- 
aively used in France as a substitute for gold. Pure copper, one hundred 
parts; zinc, or, preferably, tin, seveoteeu parts; maguesia, Bis parts; sal- 



4fl2 TEE HOVSEHOLT). 

ammoniac, tlii-ee-sixtlis parts; quick-lime, onc-ciglitli part; Urt&,r of com- 
merce, niuc parts, are mixed as follows: The copper is iiielied liriit, and the 
magnesia, sal-ammoniac, lime and tartar are then added s&parately, and by 
degrees, in the form of powder; the whole is now briflkly stirred for about 
half an hour, so as to mix thoroughly; and then the zinc is added in small 
grains by throwing it on the surface, and stirring until it is entirely fused; 
the crucible is then covered, and the fusion maujtained for about thirty-five 
minutes. The surface is then skimmed, and thd alloy is ready for casting. 
It has a fine grain, is malleable, and takes a splendid polish. It does not 
corrode readily, and for many purposes is an excellent substitute for gold. 
When tarnished, its brilliancy can be restored by a little acidulated water. 
If tin be employed instead of zinc, the alloy ivill be more brilliant. 

To Dye Featliers. — Black. — Immerse for tv.'o or three days in a bath, at 
first hot, of logwood, eight parts, and copperas or acetate of iron, one part. 

Blue. — With the indigo vat. 

Broion. — By using any of the brown dyes for silk or woolen. 

Crimson. — A mordant of alum, followed by a hot bath of Brazil wood, 
afterwards by a weak dye of cudbear. 

Pink or Bose. — With saf-flower, or lemon juice. 

Plum. — With the red dye, followed by an alkaline bath. 

Red. — A mordant of alum, followed by a bath of Brazil-wood. 

Yellow.— K mordant of alum, followed by a bath of turmeric or weld. 

(j-'ree?j.— Take of verdigris and vcrditer, of each one ounce; gum water, 
one pint; mix them well and dip the feathers (they having been first soaked 
in hot water) into the said mixture. 

Fwple. — Use lake and indigo. 

Crtrna<io?i.— Vermilion and smalt. Thin gum or starch water should bo 
used in dyeing feathers. 

To Wasli and Curl Feathers^ — Wash in warm soap-suds and rinse in 
■water a very little blued, if the feather is white, then let the wind dry it. 
When the curl has come out by waahing the feather or getting it damp, place 
a hot flat-iron so that you can hold the feather just above it while curling. 
Take a bone or silver knife and draw the fibers of the feather between the 
thumb and the dull edge of the knife, taking not more than three fibers at 
a time, beginning at the point of the feather and curUng one-half the other 
way. The hot iron makes the curl more durable. After a Httle practice, 
one can make them look as well as new feathers. When swans' down be- 
comes soiled it can be washed and look as well as new. Tack strips on a 
piece of muslin and wash in warm water with white soap, then rinse and 
1 hang in the wind to dry. Eip from the muslin and rub carefully between 
the fingers to soften the leather. 

To Clean Pui-s. — Por dark furs: warm a quantity of new bran in a pan, 
taking care that it does not burn, to prevent which it must be briskly stirred. 
When well warmed, rub it thoroughly into the fur with the hand. Eepeat 
this two or three times, then shake the fur, and give it another sharp brush- 
ing iintil free from dust. For whito furs: lay them on a table, and rub well 
■with bran made moist with warm water; rub until quite dry, and afterward 
with dry bran. The wet bran should be put on with flannel, then dry with 
book muslin. Light furs, in addition to the above, should be well rubbed 
with magnesia or a piece of book muslin, after the bran process, aigainst the 
way of the fur. Soiled white fur can be Mcely cleaned by rubbing it thor- 



EINTS AND HELPS. 498 

oughly in white flour. It should then be hung out of doors for about thirty 
minutes. Repeat the process several times, and the fur will be equal to 
new. 

An Home-made Refrigerator. — Nearly all housekeepers who are not 
able to obtain a refrigerator, keep their ice wrapped up in bits of old car- 
peting or some non-conducting material, which wastes the ice, and affords 
no help in preserving food. To them these directions may offer attractions: 
Take two large wooden boxes — dry goods boxes for instance — select the sec- 
ond one about a couple of inches smaller on all sides, and bore a one-inch 
hole in both, correspondingly to give drainage and ventilation. Perhaps a 
couple of holes would do better. Fill up the space under the boxes with 
powdered charcoal or coal ashes. Put the inner box in place and fill up all 
the spaces with the same. Sawdust might do if nothing better is procurable, 
yet it is apt to become musty. Fix on the lids to both boxes to fit tightly, 
with iron hinges (leather ones can be substituted), and fasten with straps 
of leather, or a lock and key. Put shelves on each side of the inner box by 
means of cleats. Leave a place in the center for the ice. This is a rough 
refrigerator, to be sure, but far better than none. A zinc lining, or one ol 
felting, would improve the inner box. A rack made of lathing can be laid 
at the bottom for the ice to rest upon. Legs can be added to the outer box 
by putting pieces of wood at each corner, and the drainage and ventilation 
■will be improved; and an ingenious man can make an excellent ice box in 
this way. 

Cleaning Carpets. — In all our own experiments we have found nothing 
so safe and serviceable as bran slightly moistened — only very slightly — just 
sufficient to hold the particles together. In this case it is not necessary to 
stop and clean the broom every few minutes. Sweeping the cai-pet after 
the bran has been sprinkled over it not only cleans the carpet and gathers 
all the dirt into the bran, but keeps the broom clean at the same time. If 
too much dampened, [aside from injuring the carpet it makes the work 
harder, because the bran becomes very heavy if very damp. The bran 
should be sifted evenly over the floor, and then the room swept as usual. 
The bran scours and cleanses the whole fabric, very little dust is made while 
sweeping with it, and scarcely any settles on furniture, pictures, etc., after 
the work is accomplished, because every particle of dirt, thread, bits of 
paper or lint is gathered up into the mass of bran that is being moved over 
the floor, and so thoroughly incorporated with it that it will not be easily 
separated. Carpets swept in this way retain very little dust, as will be 
plainly demonstrated whenever they are taken up to be shaken. 

Hints on Cake Baking. — When cakes are made without yeast or eggs, 
soda and powder being the substitutes, they require quick baking in a 
moderately hot oven, and should be drawn directly when they are done, or 
they get dry and tasteless. For a plain cake, made with one pound of flour, 
etc., the time to be allowed in baking would be from forty to fifty mmutes, ' 
at the outside not more than an hour. Yeast cakes take longer— say from 
ten to fifteen minutes— and vdW bear to be left in the oven rather over the 
time without much injury. Very rich cakes, in which butter and eggs pre- 
dominate, take, of course, a much longer time to cook; pound cake taking 
from an hour and a half to two hours, and bride cake three and a half. On 
DO account should the oven be too hot when the cakes are put in— that is, 
not hot euoufh to brown at once; if so, in five minutes the whole outside 



4M THE HOUSEHOLD. 

Will be burned, and the interior will stand little chance of being cooked* 
The old plan of feeling the handle of the oven door to test the lieat, is not 
always successful; it is better to sprinkle a little flour inside, and shut tha 
door for about three minutes; if at the end of that time it is of a rich light 
brown, the cake may be put in; but if burned, the heat must first be lessened. 

Household Conveniences. — There are many little contrivances which 
add much to the comfort of the household, and cost but little money. A 
little forethought often saves time and labor. A calico curtain tacked over 
the wheel of the sewing machine, protects the operator's dress from gi-ease. 
A. small wadded quilt made and kept especially to cover the bread when it 
Is set to rise, is mi:ch nicer and more claanly than the old coats and shawls 
which perform that duty in too many households. 

Mothers with several little children who attend school, will save time and 
money by securely fast<^ning each child's glove to its coat by strong tapes. 
A small table provided with a support which reaches to the floor and 
steadies it, will be fouud very useful in a crowded kitchen. It should be 
attached to the wall by hinges, and when not in use can be foldediip, thus 
leaving the space it occupied for other purposes. It can be used for dish 
washing, is a capital place to mold the broad, or to iron upon. A large 
dining-table may be made in the same way, only it must be fastened up 
against the wall and secured by a button or bolt. 

Mending Rnbber Boots. — Procure some pure gum, which can be 
bought at any wholesale rubber house, or yoii can have your druggist order 
it for you at a cost of about five cents per ounce. At the same time order 
patching, and it is well to have two thicknesses for mending different goods. 
Put an ounce or two of gum into three or four times its bulk of benzine, cork 
tightly and allow it to stand four or five days, when it will be dissolved. 
Wet the boots with benzine for an inch or more around the hole and scrape 
"with a knife; repeat this wetting with benzine and scraping several times 
until thoroughly cleaned, and a new surface exposed. Wet the cloth side of 
the patching with benzine and give one light scraping, then apply with a 
knife a good coating of the dissolved rubber, both to the boot and patch, 
and allow it to dry until it will not stick to your fingers, then apply the two 
surfaces and press or lightly hammer into as perfect compact as possible, 
and set away for a day or two, if possible, before using. If you do not suc- 
ceed it will not be the fault of the process. 

Upholstering Old Cane £!hairs—- When the cane seat of a chair ia 
broken, it may be made as good as new, or better, by upholstering it at 
home. After removing the superfluous bits of cane, cover the space with 
matting formed of three-inch wide canvas belting woven together. Tack it 
temporarily in place. After placing over this some coarse muslin, draw 
both smooth, and secure at the edge with twine, making use of the perfora- 
tions. Remove the tacks, turn the raw edge over toward the center and 
baste it down. Arrange the curled hair and wool, or whatever you propose 
to use for stuffing, and keep it in position by basting over it a piece of mus- 
lin. Then carefully fit the rep, pin it in different places until you are certain 
it is in perfect shape, and tack it permanently, following, of course, the 
tracing made for the cane. Cover the edge with gallooi^ to match the rep, 
using tiny ornamental tacks, and tie with an upholsterer's needle in as many 
places as is desirable, leaving a button on the' upper side. When the back 
of the chair is to be repaired, a facing mual be tacked on the outside. 



HINTS AND USLP8. 495 

Canning Frnlt—Those housekeepers who have not been Buocftesful in 
theii' attempts at this vrork will find the following a most excellent recipe: 
riace the fruit in either a granite, iron, or porcelain kettle; never use com- 
mon iron, brass or tin for this purpose. Allow it to boil for about five min- 
utes. Hav9 the jars in readiness, and standing in a vessel of warm watei^ 
80 that they may be heated gradually. Just before filling the jar with fruit, 
dip a towel in boiling water and wrap it around the jar, and tuck the comers 
under the bottom for the jar to rest upon. Fill the jar quickly, and when 
full thrust a knife to the bottom and stir it around several times, and the air 
bubbles will rise to the top. Seal as tight as possible, and stand the jar on 
the top in a moderately cool place. In a few hours turn the jar up, and try 
to seal tighter, standing it again on the top. Continue this several times, or 
until the cover is tightly screwed on. Stand the jars in a cool, dark place in 
the cellar, looking at them occasionally for a few days. For several years 
the above has been my method of canning, and I know from experience that 
all varieties of fruits and vegetables can be canned with perfect success in 
this way. 

To Exterminate Bedbugs— (1) Shut the windows tight, leave all 
clothing in its place, and open trunks and drawers. Put a thick layer of 
ashes into the iron kettle, on which place the Uve coals. Have no obstacles 
between yourself and the open door. Put a handful of sul]phur on the 
coals, and imraediately close the room,' leaving it undisturbed for several 
hours. When opened, the room and contents can be aired, and the odor 
will soon be gone. It is rarely that a second fumigation is necessary. Burn 
sulphur in rooms where there are moths. 

(2) Take two ounces of qiiicksilver and the whites of two eggs, and so on 
in this ratio for a larger or smaller quantity. Beat the quicksilver and the 
whites together until they unite and become a froth. With a feather then 
apply the compound thus formed to the crevices and holes in your bed- 
steads. This done twice in a year will prove effectual. 

(3) Blue ointment and kerosene, mixed in equal proportions and applied 
to bedsteads, is an unfailing bug remedy, and a coat of whitewash is ditto 
for a log house. 

To Determine tlie Q,uality of Silk. — The following directions for 
detecting the spurious from the genuine article in black silk will be found 
useful: Take ten fibres of the filling in any silk, and if on breaking they 
show a feathery, dry, and lack luster condition, discoloring the fingers in 
handhng, you may at once be sure of the presence of dye and artificial 
weighting. Or take a small portion of the fibres between the thumb and 
forefinger and very gently roll them over and over, and you will soon detect 
the gum, mineral, soap, and other ingredients of the one, and the absence 
of them in the other. A simple but effective test of purity is to burn a small 
quantity of the fibres; pure silk will instantly crisp, leaving only a pure 
charcoal; heavily dyed silk will smolder, leaving a yellow, greasy ash. If, 
on the contrary, you cannot break the ten strands, and they are of a natural 
luster and brilliancy, and fail to discolor the fingers at the point of contact, 
you may be well assured that you have a pure silk, that is honest in its 
make and durable in its wear. 

To Prevent Silverware from Tarnishing. — SoUd silverware, as well 
as plated goods, grows dark and tarnished in a very short time whea 
exposed to the air, and even when put away in a dark place. This ia 



496 THE nOUSEHOLD. 

especially the case where hard coal is used in the bouse or neighborhood, as 
the sulphur in the coal, liberated by heat, is siire to stain all the silverware 
within reach. This annoying tarnishing can be entirely prevented by paint- 
ing the silverware with a soft brush dipped in alcohol in which some collo- 
dl'on has been dissolved. The liquid dries immediately and forms a thin, 
transparent and absolutely invisible coating upon the silver, which com- 
pletely protects it from all effects of the atmosphere, etc. It can be removed 
at any time by dipping the article in hot water. This recipe has been in use 
for some time in the large establishments at London, where most of the 
goods in the show cases are protected in this manner. 

A Handy and Clieap Barometer. — One that answers the purpose of 
indicating the approach of fair or foul weather, can be made as follows: 
Take an eight-ounce bottle, the glass being clear and white, and put into it 
six ounces of the highest coloi'ed whiskey to be obtained, and put into it all 
the gum-camphor it will dissolve, and a little more. Set in some con- 
venient place. On the approach of rain or bad weather the camphor will 
settle toward the bottom of the bottle; the heavier the rain, or the more 
sultry the weather, the closer the camphor will settle to the bottom. Fair 
weather is indicated by the feather-like appearance of the camphor, which 
rises and floats in the liquid. If alcohol is used, it must be diluted so that 
it will not be stronger than the whiskey, for if it is, so much of the camphor 
will be held in solution that the atmosphere will have no perceptible effect 
upon it. 

Frencli Polisli. — Many will be glad to know how the fine origina. polish 
of furniture may be restored, especially in the case of such articles as 
pianos, fancy tables, cabinets, lacquered ware, etc., which have become 
tarnisheu by lase. Make a polish by putting half an ounce of shellac, the 
same quantity of gamlac and a quarter of an ounce of gum sandarac into a 
pint of spii-its of Anne. Put them all together in a stone bottle near the fire, 
shaking it very often. As soon as the gums are dissolved it is ready tor use. 
Now make a roller of woolen rags— soft old broadcloth will do nicely— put a 
little of the polish on it, and also a few drops of linseed oil. Eub the surface 
to be polished with this, going round and round, over a small space at a 
time, until it begins to be quite smooth. Then finish by a second rubbing 
with spirits cf wine and more of the polish, and your furniture -will have a 
brilUant luster, equal to new. 

How to Make a Hammock. — A comfortable, inexpensive hammock is 
thus made: Bring your old flour barrel from the cellar or store-room, knock 
it to pieces, clean, and paint the staves. Procure a rope four times the 
length, each place where it is to be suspended, and in size a little larger 
man a clothes-line. Now halve the rope, double each piece in the middle, 
and commencing two yards or so from the end, weave it over and under 
each stave about three inches from the end of each one, which will bring the 
rope crossed between each; do both sides the same and your hammock is 
complete. 

Fruit Stains. — In the season of fruits, the napkins used at the table, 
and often the handkerchiefs and other articles, will become stained. Those 
who have access to a good drug store can procure a bottle of Javelle water. 
If the stains are wet with this before the articles are put into the wash, they 
will be completely removed. Those who cannot get Javelle water can make 



HINTS AKD HELPS. 497 

a solution of chloride of limo. Four ounces of the chloride of lime is to be 
put into a quart of water, in a bottle, and after thorough shaking allow the 
drega to settle. The clear liquid will remove the stains as readily as Javelle 
water, but, in using this, one precaution must be observed. Be careful to 
thoroughlj' rinse the article to which this solution has been applied, in clear 
water, before bringing it in contact with soap. When Javelle water is used, 
this precaution is not necessary; but with the chloride of lime liquid it is, or 
the articles will be harsh and stiil. 

HoAv to Clean Marble-top Furniture. — It may be of some value to 
housekeepers who have marble-top furniture to know that the common 
solution of gum arable is an excellent absorbent, and will remove dirt, etc., 
from the marble. The method of applying is as follows: Brush the dust 
off the piece to be cleaned, then apply with a brush a good coat of gum 
arable, about the consistency of thick ofiSce mucilage, expose it to the sun 
or dry wind, or both. In a short time it will crack and peel off. If all the 
gum should not peel off, wash it with clean water and a clean cloth. Of 
course if the first application does not have the desired effect, it should be 
apphed again. Another method of cleaning marble is to make a paste with 
soft soap and whiting, wash the marble with it, and then leave a coat of 
paste upon it for two or three days. Afterward wash off with warm (not 
hot) water and soap. 

How to Dress a Fowl Properly— In a large majority of households, 
poultry is thought to be sufficiently cleansed when thoroughly washed, and 
rinsed, in cold water, often after the fowl is cut up ready for cooking, thus 
seriously injuring the flavor of the meat. The proj^er method is to scald, 
pick, and singe the fowl as usual, and then to soap the fowl thoroughly, with 
the hand or a cloth, rubbing it well. You will be surprised to find so much 
impurity in the soapsuds, in which the fowl has been washed. Use two or 
three rinsing waters and immerse in pure cold water for a few moments. 
Drain and wipe dry. The skin of the fowl is now delicately clean, and if 
placed beside a fowl, dressed in the ordinary way, a vast difference is ob- 
served in favor of the clean fowl; be very particular to remove the entrails, 
crop, and gall, without disturbing their contents, and one slight rinsing is 
sufficient, and the deUcate flavor preserved. 

Discolorations from Matches. — What neat housekeeper is not annoyed 
when she sees on the spotless woodwork of her door or windows those long 
dark scratches which reveal that some one has tried to hght a match by 
drawing it across the paint? Now this is sometimes our experience, for ser- 
vants will be forgetful or careless, and the tell-tale scratches greet our eyes 
in most unlooked-for quarters. But we have found a remedy for the marks, 
which, as every one knows, quite defy soap and water. Cut a sour orange 
or lemon in half, apply the cut half to the marks, rubbing for a moment 
quite hard; then wash off with a clean rag, dipped first in water to moisten 
it, and then in whiting. Bub well with tliis rag, dry thoroughly, and nine 
times out of ten the ugly mark will vanish. Of course, sometimes they are 
burned in so deeply that they cannot be quite eradicated. All finger-marks 
on painted walls, etc., should be rubbed off with a httle damp whiting in 
the same way, and never washed with soapsuds, which destroys the paint. 

Preserving Glass^vare. — Almost every drawing-room nowadays has a 
lamp of some rich design upon the center-table, and to careful housekeepers 



499 THE nOUBEnOLD, 

it is a Toxed problem how to keep lamp chimneys from craclcing. The 
Diamorh in a Leipsic journal devoted to glass matters, and from that wa 
clip the following bit of useful information: " Place your tumblers, chimneys 
or vessels which you desire to keep from cracking, in a pot filled with cold 
water and a little cooking salt; allow the mixture to boil well over a fire, 
and then cool slowly. Glass treated in this way is said not to crack, even if 
exposed to very sudden changes of temperature. Chimneys become very 
durable by this process, which may also be extended to crockerj', stone- 
ware, porcelain, etc. The process is simply one of annealing, and the 
slower the process, esi^ecially the cooling portion of it, the more effective 
will be the work." 

A Croocl Cement. —A good cement for mending almost anything may be 
made by mixing together- litharge and glycerine to the consistency of thick 
cream or fresh putty. This cement is useful for mending stone jars or any 
coarse earthenware, stopping leaks in seams of tin pans, wash-boilers, cracks 
and holes in iron kettles, etc. Holes an inch in diameter in kettles can bo 
filled and used the same for years in boiling water and feed. It also may 
be used to fasten on lamp-tops, to tighten loose nuts, to secure bolts whose 
nuts are lost, to tighten loose joints of wood or iron, loose boxes in wagon 
hubs, and in a great many other ways. In all cases the articles mended 
should not be used until the "cement is hardened, which will require from 
one day to a week, according to the quantity used. This cement will resist 
the action of water, hot or cold, acids, and almost any degree of heat. 

The Best Kno^vn Keceipt for Corning Beef. — Cut the beef in small 
pieces, leaving out the large bones, pack solid in a six-gallon crock with a 
weight on top. Pour over the beef boiling-hot brine made as follows: Two 
gallons of water, three pounds of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, a pound of 
sugar and two large spoonfuls of baking soda. After two weeks, heat and 
Bkim the brine, and repeat the jDrocess whenever you think necessary, but 
never put the brine on hot after the first time. If the weather is hot you 
can add a handful of salt and soda at any time, and like all pickling be sure 
ihe brine covers the beef. If packed in a barrel, a large cloth should be 
eecurely tied over it in summer, to secure its contents from flies. The 
nicest vessel to put it into is a half barrel earthen jar. 

TUe Use of a. Broom. — As simple as the advice may seem, but very few 
people handle a broom properly, although they are accustomed to sweep 
more or less every day of their lives. There is science in handling a broom, 
as well as in many other kinds of labor. Alwaj'S draw your broom, by lean- 
ing the handle forward, because the position of the broom will take the dirt 
along more gently; it will sweep cleaner; it will not wear out the carpet to 
fast. Your broom will be kept in proper shape and not half so mvch dust 
will be raised to be afterward wped from your furniture. Most careless 
sweepers thrust their broom forward of them in a sort of a digging way, 
with the handle inclining towards them. This way you will find breaks your 
broom, flirts up more dust, and makes the sweeping much more laborious. 

To Render Lieatlier "Watcrproof._(l) This simple and efi'ectual rem- 
edy is nothing more than a little beeswax and mutton suet, warmed in a 
pipkin imtil in a liquid state. Then rub some of it lightly over the edges of 
the sole where the stitches are, which will repel the wet, and not in the least 
prevent the blacking from Jiaviug the usual effect, 



\ITINTS ANB KELPS. 499 

(2) Gnm copal varnish applied to soles of boots and shoes, and repeated 
as it dries until the pores are filled and the surface shines Uke polished 
mahogany, will make the sole waterproof, and it lasts three times longer for 
the appUcation. 

A Good Paste—To make a paste that will keep, take of wheat flour, one 
ounce; powdered alum, one-half drachm; water sufficient, or eight ounces; 
oil of cloves, or wintergreen, three or four drops. Rub the flour and the 
alum with water to the consistence of milk; place this over a moderate fire 
and stir constantly until the paste drops from the wooden paddle in jelly- 
like flakes and has the appearance of starch. While the mass is still hot, 
add the essential oil and pour the paste into an earthenware pot or open jar. 
In the course of about an hour a crust forms on the top; pour gently om this 
an inch of water, more or less. When some paste is wanted, decant the 
water, take out the quantity needed and put some water again on the re- 
mainder, repeating the operation each time. Paste may be kept in this way 
for months, and will never be troubled with flies. 

To Wash Graining. — Use clear, warm water, no soap, a clean, white 
cloth. Wash only a small place at a time, "and wipe dry ^vith another clean, 
white cloth. Do not wet more space than can be dried immediately with the 
dry cloth, as graining must not be left to dry in the atmosphere. It must be 
rubbed dry; hence the necessity of white, dry cloths. If the graining has 
been neglected, or soiled with greasy fingers, or specked by summer growth 
or flies, a little hard soap may be necessary in the first watei-, but must be 
speedily rinsed ofi" in clear water and wiped dry. But, if possible, avoid 
the use of soap, as it deadens the varnish, however carefully handled, and 
on no account must any soap be rubbed on the cloth. 

To Make a Cheap Telephone—Take a wooden tooth-powder box and 
make a hole of about the size of a half crown in the lid and the bottom. 
Take a disk of tinned iron, such as can be had from a preserved meat tin, 
and place it on the oKtside of the bottom of the box, and fix the cover 03 
the other side of it. Then take a small bar-magnet, place on one end a> 
small cotton or silk reel, and round the reel wind some iron wire, leaving 
the ends loose. Fix one end of the magnet near, as near as possible without 
touching, to the disk, and then one part of the telephone is complete. A 
similar arrangement is needed for the other end. With this one can COU'. 
verse at a distance of about one hundred yards. 

Mosqnito Remedy. — To clear a sleeping-room of mosquitoes, take % 
piece of paper rolled around a lead-pencil to form a case, and fill this with 
very dry Pyrethrum powder (Persian insect powder), putting in a Uttle at » 
time, and pressing it down with the pencil. This cartridge, or cigarette, 
may be set in a cup of sand to hold it erect. An hour before going to bed 
the room is to be closed, and one of these cartridges burned. A single car- 
tridge will answer for a small room, but for a large one two are required. 
Those who have tried this find that it efi"ectually disposss of the mosquitoes. 

To Prevent Fruit Jars Breaking. — Canning fruit is hot enough work 
without any hot water or hot jars around. Instead of this, wrap the jars 
•with a towel saturated with cold water, and pour in your hot fruit. Any one 
who has not tried it will n&turally say; " That is the sure way to break jars." 
I would say, just try one jar and «ee. We have canned huudreds of jars. 



600 THE nOUSEIlOLD. 

one and two qtiarts, and havo never bro^"n one in filling. I can't explain 
why, but simply know that it is the fact. 

To Cleanse 'Wood-work. -Save the tea leaves for a fo«- days, then 
steep them in a tin pail or pan for half an hour, strain through a sieve and 
use the tea to wash all varnished paint. It requires very little " elbow 
polish," as the tea acts as & strong detergent, cleansing the paint from all 
impurities, and making the varnish equal to new. It cleans window sashca 
and oil cloths; indeed, any varnished surface is improved by its application. 
It washes window panes and mirrors much better than water, and is excel- 
lent for cleaning black walnut picture and looking-glass frames. It will not 
do to wash unvarnished paint with it. Take a small quantity on a damp 
flannel, rub lightly over the surface, and you will be siirprised at its effects. 

To Clean Silver Plate. — Hartshorn is one of the best possible ingre- 
dients for plate-powder in daily use. It leaves on the silver a deep, dark 
polish, and is less hvirtful than any other article. To wash plate carefully 
is first to remove all the grease from it, and this can be done with the use of 
warm water and soap. The water should be as nearly hot as the hand can 
bear it. Then mix as much hartshorn powder as will bo required into a 
thick paste with cold water. Smear this lightly over the plate with a piece 
of soft rag, and leave it for some little time to dry. When perfectly dry, 
brush it off quite clean with a soft plate-brush, and polish the plate with a 
dry leather. If the i^late be very dirty or much tarnished, spirits of wine 
will be found to answer better than water for mixing the paste. 

To Clean Velvet. — Velvet requires very careful manipulation, as it 
loses its fine appearancs if wrung or pressed when it is wet. To remove 
dust, strew very fine dry sand upon the velvet, and brush in the direction of 
the lines until all the sand is removed. The brush must be a new one. To 
remove dii-t, dissolve ox gall in nearly boiling water, and add some spirits 
of wine; dip a soft brush in this solution and brush the dirt out of the 
velvet. It may require repeated brushing. After this, hang the velvet up 
carefully to dry. For finishing, apply a weak solution of gum, by means of 
a sponge, to the reverse side of the velvet. 

Canning Sweet Corn. — The "Oneida Community" preserves sweet 
corn by cutting the corn raw into tin cans; then fill with cold water even 
with the top of the corn; solder up the can, pricking a small hole in tho 
cover; solder that also. Boil the cans and contents in boiling water two and 
a half hours; then with a hot iron open the small hole and let the gas blow 
out, after which solder up and boil again two and a half hours and set away 
for use. Peas, string beans, and lima beans can be j^ut up in this same 
manner, and they certainly pay for the trouble of putting up. Every family 
should have a soldering apparatus, as it would pay for itself in a very short 
time, and save many trips to the tinner's. 

To Remove Grease from Carpets. — The following mixture is recom- 
mended for taking grease out of carpets: Aqua ammonia, two ounces; soft 
water, one quart; saltpetre, one teaspoonful; shaving soap, one ounce, 
finely scraped. Mis well, shake and let it stand a few hours or days, before 
using, to dissolve the soap. When used pour on enough to cover any grease 
or oil that has been spilled, sponging and rubbing well and applying again 
if neceesary; then wash off with clear cold water. It is a good mixture to 



fflN-TS AND HELPS. 601 

tove In the house for many things; is sure death to bed bugs if put in the 
crevices which they inhabit; will remove paint where oil was used in mixing 
it, and will not injure the finest fabrics. 

To Polish Black Walnut — To give black walnut a fine polish, so as 
to resemble rich old wood, apply a coat of shellac varnish, and then rub it 
with a smooth piece of pumice stone until dry. Another coat may be given, 
and the rubbing repeated. After this, a coat of polish, made of linseed oil, 
beeswax, and turpentine may be well rubbed iu ^vith a dauber, made of a 
piece of sponge tightly wrapped in a piece of fine flannel several times 
folded, and moistened with the polish. If this work is not fine enough, it 
may be smoothed with the finest sandpaper, and the rubbing repeated. In 
the course of time the walnut becomes very dark and rich in color, and in 
every way is superior to that which has been varnished. 

To Clean Britannia Metal — (1) Kub the article with a piece of flan- 
nel moistened with sweet oil; then apply a little pounded rotten-stone or 
poUshing paste with the finger till the polish is produced, then wash the 
article with soap and hot water, and when dry, rub with soft wash leather, 
and a little fine whitiug. 

(2) To clean britannia metal, use finely powdered whiting, two table- 
apoonfuls of sweet oil and a Uttle yellow soap. Mix with spirits of -wine to a 
cream. Eub on with a sponge, wipe off with a soft cloth and polish with a 
chamois skin. 

Care of Clothes. — Spots of gi'ease may be removed from colored silks 
by putting on them raw starch made into a paste with water. Dust is best 
removed from silk by a soft flannel, from velvet with a brush made 
specially for the purpose. If hats and bonnets when taken from the head 
are brushed and put away iu boxes and covered up, instead of being laid 
down anywhere, they will last fresh a long time. Shawls and all articles 
that may bo folded should be folded when taken from the person in their 
■original creases and laid away. Cloaks should be hung up in place, gloves 
pulled out lengthwise, wrapped iu tissue paper and laid away, lacea 
smoothed out and folded, if requisite, so that they will come out of the bo;^ 
new and fresh when needed again. A strip of old black broadcloth four or 
five inches wide, rolled up tightly and sewed to keep the roll in place, ia 
better than a sponge or cloth for cleansing black or dark colored clothes. 
Whatever lint comes from it in rubbing is black and does not show. 

Cleaning Black Silk — One of the things "not generally known," at 
least in this country, is the Parisian method of cleaning black silk; the 
modus operandi is very simple, and the result infinitely superior to that 
achieved in any other manner. The silk must be thoroughly brushed an(\ 
wiped with a cloth, then laid flat on a board or table, and well sponged with 
hot coffee, thoroughly freed from sediment by being strained through 
muslin. The silk is sponged on the side intended to show; it is allowed to 
become partially dry, and then ironed on the wrong side. The coffee 
removes every particle of grease, and restores the brilliancy of silk without 
imparting to it either the shiny appearance or crackly and papery stiffliess 
obtained by beer or, indeed, any other liquid. The silk really appears 
thickened by the process, and this good effect is permanent. Our readers 
•who will experimentalize on au apron or cravat will never again try any 
other method. 



502 THE irOUSETTOLP. 

How to Clean "Wall Paper—Take off the dust with a soft cloth. With 
a little flour and water make a lump of very stiff dough, and rub the wal) 
gently downward, taking the length of the arm at each stroke, and in this 
way go round the room. As the dough becomes dirty, cut the soiled part 
off. In the second round commence the stroke a little above where the last 
one ended, and be very careful not to cross the paper or to go up again. 
Ordinary papers cleaned in this way will look fresh and bright, and almost 
as good as new. Some papers, however — and these moat expensive ones- 
will not clean nicely; and, in order to ascertain whether a paper can be 
cleaned, it is best to try it in some obscure corner, which will not be noticed 
if the result is unsatisfactory. If there be any broken places in the wall, fill 
them up with a mixture of equal parts of plaster-of-paris and silver-sand, 
made into a paste, with a little water; then cover the place with a little piece 
of paper Uke the rest, if it can be had. 

To Make Fruit Extracts, Etc—Good alcohol, one quart; oil of lemon, 
two ounces. Break and bruise the peel of four lemons, and add to them 
aleohol for a few days, then filter. For currants, peaches, raspberries, pine- 
apples, strawberries, blackberries, etc., take alcohol and water half and 
half, and pour over the fruit, entirely covering it, and let it stand for a few 
days. For essence of cmnamon, nutmeg, mace, vanilla, etc., pulverize 
either article thoroughly, and put about two ounces of the resulting powder 
to each pint of reduced alcohol, agitate the mixture frequently for two 
weeks, then filter and color as desired. 

To Renovate Carpets. — To one pail of warm water add one pint of ox- 
gall; dip a soaped flannel into the mixture, and rub well the surface of the 
carpet, piece by piece, rinsing it as you proceed with clean, cold water, tak- 
ing care not to make the carpet too wet, and finish off by rubbing with a dry 
coarse cloth. The carpet, of course, must be well beaten before it is ope- 
rated upon. This process is simply and sur|Drisingly efl'ective iu renovating 
the colors. The only drawback is the effluvium given off' by the gall; but 
this is soon remedied by exposure to the ah-, or by opening the windows if 
the carpet be laid down. 

Extempore Sliade for Reading Lamps. — An additiona. shade can 
sometimes be used with comfort, and is made in a moment, as follows: Take 
a half sheet of letter paper, or any somewhat similar piece of stifiish paper, 
turn down about an inch and a half of one side of it, and emphasize the turn 
by a scrape ■with thumbnail or paper cutter. Then open the turned strip 
part way and set the strip under the front edge of the shade of the lamp, 
between the shade and the frame on which it rests. The rest of the sheet is 
to stand up in front of the shade. The hold of the bent paper will keep the 
sheet against the glass shade, and the paper agreeably modifies the effect of 
the Ught on the eyes, without keeping any of it from the table. 

To Preserve Hams from Plies. — The beet way to preserve hams from 
flies is, as soon as they are smoked, to wrap them in two old newspapers, 
first with one end and again with another, and tie the ends of the paper or 
paste them down. Let the string to hang them up by come through the 
paper, being very careful that the hole shall only be large enough to let the 
string through. No insect can get through paper. Woolens and furs can 
be kept perfectly in the same way, being careful that the egg of the mott ia 
Bot previouely depouited. 



HINTS AND nELPS. 503 

Gilding AVKliout a Battery. — Clean the silver or other article to be 
gilded with a brush and a little ammonia water, \intil it is evenly bright and 
shows no tarnish. Take a small piece of gold and dissolve it in about four 
times its volume of metallic mercury, which will be accomplished in a few 
minutes, forming an amalgam. Put a little of the amalgam on a piece of 
dry cloth, rub it on the article to be gilded. Then place on a stone in a 
furnace, and heat to the beginning of redness. After cooling, it must be 
cleaned with a brush and a little cream of tartar, and a beautiful and per- 
' mauont gilding will be found. 

Fluid for Soldering and Tinning. — The follo^ving compounds are 
useful for soldering or tinning: Tin— one part miiriatic acid, with as miich 
ziuc as it will dissolve; add two parts of water and some sal ammoniac. 
Brass and copper — one pound muriatic acid, four ounces zinc, five ounces 
sal ammoniac. Zinc — one pound muriatic acid, and two ounces sal ammo- 
niac, with all the zinc it will dissolve, and three j^iuts of water. Iron — one 
pound of muriatic acid, six ounces sperm tallow, four ounces sal ammoniac. 
Gold and silver — one pound muriatic acid, eight ounces sperm tallow, and 
eight ounces sal ammoniac. 

To Keep Cheese from Blold. —Dissolve a spoonful of bruised pepper, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt,and the same quantity of boracic acid in a quarter 
of a pint of brandy for a few days; then filter the fluid through a cloth and 
dilute with an equal quantity of water. Some of the preparation is intro- 
duced into the cracks of the cheese by means of a feather, or better with a 
email glass syringe. If places which have been nibbled by mice are rubbed 
•with the liquid no mold will form. It will put "jumpers " to flight. 

Orease on Kiteheit Floors. — With the greatest care the housewife will 
occasionally spill a little grease on the kitchen floor. When possible, the best 
thing is immediately to pour over it cold water, and prevent it penetrating 
the wood. Scrape off all that is possible, rub thickly with soap, and wash off 
with boiling water. When dry, fold thicknesses of brown wrapping paper, 
lay over the spot, and place on it a hot smoothing iron; this will di-aw much 
of the grease into the paper; then wash again with soap and hot water. This 
will take out so much of the spot that it will hardly be noticed if daily washed 
off as it draws out of the wood, for every particle has to come out at the top 
of the boards, and the moi'e persistently one works at it, the sooner it will 
disappear. 

To Clean Gloves. — The following is recommended as the best mode of 
cleaning gloves: Mix one-fourth ounce carbonate of ammonia, one-fourth 
ounce fluid chloroform, one-fourth ounce sulphuric ether, one quart distilled 
benzine. Pour out a small quantitj' in a saucer, put on the gloves, and 
wash as if washing the hands, changing solution until gloves are clean; take 
oft', squeeze them, replace on hands, and with a clean cloth nib fingers, etc., 
until they are dry and perfectly fitted to the hand. This cleaner is also an 
excellent clothes, ribbon and silk cleaner; is perfectly harmless to the most 
delicate tints. Apply with a soft sponge, rubbing gently until spots disap- 
pear; care must be taken not to use it near fire, as the benzine is very in- 
flammable. 

To Cure Meats.— For curing beef^ pork, mutton, and hams, the follow- 
ing recipe is good: To one gallon of water take one and a half pounde of 



50i TEE HOUSEEOLD. 

salt, one-i._, -4 pound of sugar, one-half ounce each of saltpetre and potash. 
In ttiis ratio the pickle can lie increased to any quantity desired. Let these 
be boiled together until all the dirt from the sugar rises to the top and 
is skimmed off. Then throw it into a tub to cool, and when cold, pour it 
over your beef or pork. The meat must bo well covered with pickle, and 
should not be put down for at least two days after killing, during which time 
it should be sprinkled with powdered saltpetre, which removes all the sur- 
face blood, etc., leaving the meat fresh and clean. 

Cement for Fastening Instruments in Handles. — A material for 
fastening knives or forks into their handles, when they have become loosened 
by use, is a much needed article. The best cement for this purpose consists 
of one pound of colophony (purchasable at the druggist's), and eight ounces 
of sulphur, which are to be melted together and either kept in bars or re- 
duced to powder. One part of the powder is to be mixed with half a part of 
iron filings, fine sand, or brickdust, and the cavity of the handle is then to 
be filled with this mixture. The stem of the knife or fork is then to be 
heated and inserted into the cavity; and when cold it will be found fixed in 
its place with great tenacity. 

Glue 'wliicli -will Unite even Polished Steel. — A Turkish receipt for 
a cement used to fasten diamonds and other precious stones to metallic sur- 
faces, and which is said to strongly unite even surfaces of polished steel, 
although exposed to moisture, is as follows: Dissolve five or six bits of gum 
mastic, each of the size of a large pea, in as much spirits of wine as will 
STiifice to render it hquid. In another vessel dissolve in brandy ae much 
isinglass, previously softened in water, as will make a two-ounce phial of 
strong glue, adding two bits of gum ammoniac, which must be rubbed until 
dissolved. Then mix the whole with heat. Keep in a phial closely stopped. 
When it is to be used set the phial in boiling water-. 

Glycerine Leatlier Polisli. — Mix intimately together three or four 
pounds of lamp-black and a half pound of burned bones with five pounds of 
glycerine and five pounds of syrup. Then gently warm two and three- 
quarter ounces of giitta-percha in an iron or copper kettle until it flows 
easily, add ten ounces of olive oil, and when completely dissolved, one 
ounce of stearine. This solution, while still warm, is poured into the former 
and well mixed. Then add five ounces of gum Senegal dissolved in one and 
a half pounds of water, and a half ounce of lavender or other oils to flavor 
it. For use it is diluted with three or four parts of water. It gives a fino 
polish, ia free from acid, and the glycerine keeps the leather soft and pliable. 

French Polish Dressing for Lieather.. — Mix two pints best vinegar 
with one pint soft water; stir into it a quarter pound of glue, broken up, 
half a pound logwood chips, one quarter ounce finely-powdered indigo, one- 
quarter ounce of the best soft soap, one-quarter ounce of isinglass; put the 
mixture over the fire and let it boU ten minutes er more; then strain, bottle 
and cork. "When cold, it ia fit for use. Apply with a sponge. 

To Clean Black Lace. — Ladies who have rolls of old lace put by may 
want to make it fresh again by a simple process. Make some green tea, 
and, while it is boiling hot, hold the lace over it so that it is completely 
■teamed, pullmg it well out with the hand during the process, and at once 
iron it between paper. 



ffUfiTTS AND HELPS. 506 

Jet Black Varnisli— To mal;c a jet black varnish that can be used for 
furniture or for small ■wood-haudles, that will make them smooth and shin- 
ing and hard and solid, so that they will not get dim by handling or lose 
theii- gloss, take of asphaltum, three ounces; boiled oil, four quarts; burnt 
umber, eight ounces, and enough oil of turpentine to thin. The three first 
must be mixed by the aid of heat, and the turpentine gradually added (out 
of doors and away from lire) before the mixture has cooled. The work 
(dry) is given several coats, each being hardened in a japanner's oven. The 
last coat may be rubbed down, first with tripoli applied on a soft cloth, then 
with a few drops of oil. 

Ho-»v to Fit Keys Into Lock$. — When it is not convenient to take locks 
apart in the event of keys being lost, stolen, or missing, when you wish to 
fit a new key, take a lighted match or candle and smoke the new key in the 
flame, introduce it carefully into the keyhole, press it firmly against the op- 
posing wards of the lock, withdraw it, and the indentations in the smoked 
part of the key will show you exactly where to file. 

To Clean Kid Gloves. — To clean kid gloves, have ready a little new 
milk in one saucer, and a piece of brown soap in another, and a clean cloth 
or towel, folded three or four times. On the cloth spread out the gloves 
smooth and neat. Take a piece of flannel, dip it in the milk, then rub off a 
good quantity of soap to the wetted flannel, and commence to rub the glove 
toward the fingers, holding it firmly with the left hand. Continue the pro- 
cess until the glove, if white, looks of a dingy yellow, though clean; if col- 
ored, until it looks dark and spoiled. Lay it to dry, and the operator will 
soon be gratified to see that the old glove looks nearly new. It will be soft, 
glossy, smooth and elastic. 

Remedy for Flies. — An Irish clergyman. Rev. George Meares Drought, 
believes that he has discovered a remedy against the plague of flies — and a 
very simple and pleasant one— namely: a ^vindow-garden of geraniums and 
calceolarias. He says that he had for a long time been congratulating him- 
self on his exemption from the plague of flies from which his neighbors suf- 
fered, when, at length, in preparing for removal, he sent away his window- 
box of geraniums and calceolarias to his new residence. Immediately, his 
room was as full of flies as that of any of his neighbors, and so he found out 
that it was his window-garden which saved him. 

A Cement Withstanding Heat and Moisture. — Pure white lead, or 
zinc-white, ground in oil, and used very thick, is an excellent cement for 
mending broken crockery ware: but it takes a very long time to harden. It 
is well to put the mended object iu some store-room, and not to look after it 
for several weeks, or even months. It will then be found so firmly united 
that, if ever again broken, it will not part on the hne of the former fracture. 

To Clean Hair Brushes and Combs. — Dissolve a piece of soda in some 
hot water, allowing a piece the size of a walnut to a quart of water. Put the 
water into a basin, and after combing out the hair from the brushes, dip 
them, bristles downward, into the water and out again, keeping the backs 
and handles as free from the water as possible. Repeat this until the bris- 
tles look clean, then rinse the brushes in a little cold water; shake them well, 
and wipe the handles and backs with a towel, but not the bristles, and set the 
brushes to dry in the sun or near the fire, but take care not to put them t«o 
cloae to it. Wiping the briatlea of a brush makes them soft, as does aoap. 



566 TEE nOUSEEOLD. 

Uses of Paper—Hubbiug with paper ia a much nicor way of keeping a 
teakettle, coffeepot and teapot In-ight and clean than the old way of wash- 
ing them iu suds. Rubbing with papoi* is also the best way of polishing 
knives, tinware and spoons; they shine like new silver. For polishing mir- 
rors, windows, lamp chimneys, etc., paper is better than dry cloth. Pre- 
serves and pickles keep much better if brown paper, instead of cloth, is tied 
over the jar. Canned fruit is not so apt to mold if a piece of writing paper 
cut to fit the can, is laid directly on the fruit. Paper is much better to put 
under a carpet than straw. It is warmer, thinner, and makes less noise 
when one walks on it. 

Stain for Floors. — The best, cheapest and only permanent stain for 
floors is permanganate of potash. You can get it at any drug store. Mix 
about one-quarter ounce to a quart of water. Apply freely and quickly to a 
dry floor with a brush so as to not stain your hands. Repeat the process if 
a very dark color is desired. When dry, oil with burnt linseed oil or bees- 
wax and turpentine. You cannot wash this color out, as it actually stains 
the wood. When applying this at first, for a few moments the color is bright 
magenta; but this at once changed to a dark, permanent brown. This 
makes a very cheap stain. 

Dish "Wiping. — The following is an arrangement for wiping dishes that 
saves half the risk, while the dishes look nicer and brighter: The only out- 
lay required is a half-bushel baaket. Set this either in the sink or in a pan. 
Wash the dishes as usual, and put them in a tin j^an or pail. Pour boiling 
water over them, rinse them thoroughly, then set them up edgewise in the 
basket, so as to drain. The heat will dry them perfectly, and not a streak or 
particle of lint is to be seen. Five minutes will leave them perfectly dry. 
No one who tries it once will be likely to go t)ack to the old way. 

Grease Spots on Clothes. — Grease or paint spots in clothes are easily 
removed by oil of turpentine, or a hot iron pressed on the place over coarse 
brown paper, after scraping all that can be got off with a blunt knife. Stains 
may be removed from light-colored clothes, such as drabs, buffs, or whites, 
with fuller's earth; but this is apt to take the color out of dark clothes. It 
should be dissolved in a little boiling water, put on the spot when hot, held 
to the fire to dry, and then brushed out. Pitch is removed, first, by rubbing 
the place over with grease or oil, and then taking out the oil by the applica- 
tion of spu'its of turpentine. 

Lamp Explosions. —Many of these may be prevented by trimming tJie 
wick daily. When burned for several evenings without trimming, the wick 
becomes black, clogged, and incapable of supplying the oil clearly and 
uniformly, and the chimneys are sometimes filled with flame and smoke, to 
the embarrassment and alarm of those present. Some explosions would be 
prevented by never blowing out the lamp down the chimney; for if the wick 
happens to be too small, the flame may be driven down into the oil. The 
best way is to turn it down with the button until extinguished. 

To Destroy Insect Pests.—It is an undisputed fact that if powdered 
borax is scattered freely where the cockroach has found a hiding place, it 
will not only prevent its remaining, but will destroy it. In the dark and 
sometimes damp closets, under sinks and wash basins, they sometimes 
make their appearance, and it ia a good practice to ouce or twice a year 



■ SllifTS AND HELPS. 607 

scatter a little of this powder iu such places. Nothing but persistent caro, 
and absolute and unvarying neatness about closets, cupboards, and cellar 
stairs will prevent insects of various kinds from finding agreeable homes. 

To Bleach a Stra-»v Bonnet. — First scrub the bonnet well with yellow 
soap and a brush dipped in clean water; alter this, put into a box a saucer 
containing burning sulphur; it must remain there a short time, and as soon 
as it is removed, the bonnet must be placed in the box and well covered up, 
so that the sulphuric atmosphere may whiten it; next dissolve a little oxalic 
acid in boiling water. Wash all over the bonnet with a small paint brush; 
put it into a pail of cold water, and let it remain half an hour; then hang it 
out to dry; it must afterward be stiffened with gelatine, dried again, and 
then pressed into shape. 

Tlie Cai-e of Towels. — Never put a new towel in the wash until you 
have overcast the fringed edge. The use of this is obvious the moment one 
is told of it, though a dozen towels might be worn out before one would dis- 
cover it. If, when towels are washed, the fringe is shaken well before they 
are hung up to dry, the fresh appearance will be preserved for a long time. 
If vigorously shaken, that is all that is necessary; otherwise it is best to 
have the laundress whip the fringe over the clean back of a kitchen chair. 
This is much better than any combing process. Besides, it does not wear 
the fringe so much. 

To Exterminate Rats and Mice—Mix powdered mix vomica -with 
oatmeal, and lay it in their haunts, observing proper precaution to prevent 
accidents. Another method is to mix oatmeal with a little powdered phos- 
phorus. In respect to rats, another way is to mix arsenic and lard together, 
and spread it on bread, and push a piece into every rat hole; or some small 
pieces of sponge may be fried in dripping or honey, and strewed about for 
them to eat. Or half a pint of plaster of Paris, mixed with one pint of oat- 
meal, with prove equally fatal to them. 

Sharpening a Razor—It has long been known that the simplest 
method of sharpening a razor is to put it for half an hour in water to which 
one-twentieth of its weight of muriatic or sulphuric acid has been added, 
then lightly wipe it off, and after a few hours set it on a hone. The acid hero 
supplies the place of a whetstone by corroding the whole surface uniformly, 
BO that nothing further than a smooth polish is necessary. The process 
never injures good blades, while badly hardened ones are frequently im- 
proved by it, although the cause of this improvement remains unexplained. 

Frostiikg Olass. — The frosty appearance of glass, which we often see 
I where it is desired to keep out the sun, or " man's observing eye," is done 
'by using a paint composed as follows: Sugar of lead, well ground in oil, 
applied as other paint; then pounded, while fresh, with a wad of batting 
held between the thumb and finger; after which, it is allowed to partially 
dry; then, with a straight-edge laid upon the sash, you run along by the 
Bide of it a stick sharpened to the width of hue you wish to appear in the 
diamonds, figures, or squares, into which you choose to lay it off. 

Mnellage. — A very superior quality of mucilage is made by dissolving 
clear glue in equal volumes of water and strong vinegar, and adding one- 
fourth of au equal quantity of alcohol, and a small quantity of a solutiou of 



808 TEE noUSEROLS. 

alum iu water. Tho action of the vinegar is also due to the acetic acid which 
it contains. Tl^is prevents tho glue from glutiuiziug by cooling; but the 
same result may bo accomplished by adding a small quantity of nitric acid. 
Some of the preparations offered for sale are merely boiled starch or flour, 
mixed with nitric acid to prevent the glutinizing. 

Care of Umbrellas. — Most persons, when they come in from the rain, 
put their umbrellas in the rack with tho handle iipward. They should put 
it downward, because when the handle is upward tho water runs down 
inside to tho place where the ribs are joined to the handle, and cannot get 
out, but stays, rotting the cloth and rusting the metal until slowly dried 
away. The wu-e securing the ribs soon rusts and breaks. If placed the 
other end iip the water readily runs off, and the umbrella dries almost 
immediately. 

To Restore tlie Color of Carpets— A tablespoonful of ammonia in one 
gallon of warm water will often restore the color of carpets, even if injured 
by acid or alkali. If a ceiling has been whitewashed with the carpet down, 
and a few drops should fall, this will remove it. Or, after tho carpet is well 
beaten and brushed, scour with oxgall, which will not only extract grease, 
but freshen the colors. One pint of gall in three gallons of warm water will 
do for a large carpet. Table and floor oilcloths may be thus washed. The 
suds left from a wash, when ammonia is used, even if almost cold, cleanses 
floor cloths well. 

Ho-w to Keep Fresli Meat. — Perhaps all our readers are not aware 
that steak (pork and beof), sausages, puddings, etc., can be kept fresh the 
year round, by fi-ying and seasoning when fresh, the same as for the table, 
packing down in crocks or lard cans, and pouring hot lard over them, cover- 
ing about an inch. When needed, scrape off tho lard, and heat through. 
This is valuable informatiou to farmers and others, who kill and dispose of 
a portion at a low rate. It is impossible to detect any difference between the 
preserved and the recently prepared. 

To Bore Holes in Glass. — Any sharp steel will cut glass with great 
facility when kept freely wet with camphor dissolved in turpentine. A drill 
may be used, or even the hand alone. A hole may be readily enlarged by a 
round file. The ragged edges of glass may also be thus smoothed \vith a flat 
lile. Flat window glass can be readily sawed by a watch-spring saw, by the 
aid of this solution. In short, the most brittle glass can be wrought almost 
as easily as wood, by the use of drilling tools kept constantly moist with 
camphorizod oil of turpentine. 

Ink on Books. — To remove ink-stains from a book, first wash the paper 
with warm water, using a camel's hair pencil for the purpose. By this 
means the surface ink is got rid of. The paper must now be wetted with a 
solution of oxalate of potash, or, better still, oxalic acid, in the proportion of 
one ounce to half a pint of water. The ink stains will immediately disap- 
pear. Finally, again wash the stained place with clean water, and dry it 
with white blotting paper. 

To Restore a Cane Chair Bottom—Turn the chair bottom upward, 
and with hot water and sponge wash the cane work well, so that it is well 
soaked; should it bo dirty, use soap; let it dry in tho air, and it will be ai 
tight and firm as new, provided none of the canea are broken. 



HINTS AND HELPS. 609 

A Valuable Discovery. — It is said that a lady in Springfield, Mass., 
has beon making some interesting experiments in putting up canned goods 
without cooking. Heating the fruit tends more or less to the injury of the 
flavor, and the lady referred to has found that by filling tlie cans with fruit, 
and then with pure cold water, and allowing them to stand until all the con- 
fined air has escaped, the fruit will, if then sealed perfectly, keep indefi- 
nitely, without change or loss of original flavor. 

To Clean PlusU. — That plush may be cleaned is a fact of interest; chil- 
dren's plush coats that have become soiled on the front can be softly and 
delicately sponged with a Uttle borax and water, without injury; a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered borax to nearly a quart of water is the proper proportion; 
use a very soft sponge — and, by the way, a sponge may be softened by boil- 
ing it in clear water; then take it out and rinse it in several waters; if not 
softened sufliciently, repeat the boiling and rinsing process. 

Bottling Fruit. — Have ready some dry glass bottles, wide-mouthed 
and clean. Burn a match in each to exhaust the air; place the fruit quickly 
in each; cork with soft bungs or corks, and put in a cool oven; let them re- 
main until the fruit has shrunken one-fourth. Take out the bottles; beat 
the corks well in and cover them with melted rosin. If the fruit has been 
picked dry, and is quite sound, it will keep for months in a cool, dry place, 
and retain all the flavor. 

To Remove Stains from tlie Hands, Etc. — Dampen the hands first in 
water, then rub them with tartaric acid or salt of lemons, as you would with 
soap; rinse them and rub them dry. Tartaric acid or salt of lemons will 
quickly remove stains from white muslins or linens. Put less than half a 
teaspoonful in water; wet the stain with it, and lay it in the sun for an hour; 
wet it once or twice with cold water during the time; if this does not quite 
remove it, repeat the acid water and lay it in the sun. 

Waterproof Blacking. — Dissolve an ounce of borax in water, and in 
this dissolve gum shellac until it is the consistency of thin paste; add lamp- 
black to color. This makes a cheap and excellent blackin j for boots, giving 
them the polish of new leather. The shellac makes the boots or shoes al- 
most entirely waterproof. Camphor dissolved in alcohol added to the black- 
ing makes the leather more pliable and keeps it from cracking. This is sold 
at 50 cents for a small bottle. By making it yourself $1 will buy materials 
for a gallon. 

To Renovate Black Clotli. —Clean the cloth from grease and dirt with 
the follo^ving mixture thoroughly dissolved: Aqua ammonia, two ounces; 
soft water, one quart; saltpeter, one teaspoonful; shaving soap, in shavings, 
one ounce. Then when dry, make a strong decoction of logwood by boiUng 
the extract in a gallon of scft water; strain, and when cool add two ounces 
of gum arable; apply evenly with a sponge over the surface and hang in the 
shade. When thoroughly dry brush the nap down smooth and it will look 
as well as new. Keep the Uquid tightly corked in a bottle. 

To Detei-mine if Finait Cans are Air Tight. — A lady writes: " Do you 
wish to know," said a man of science tome recently, " how to know that 
your fruit can is certainly air tight?" I was that moment contemplating a 
can which had a Uttle neck on the upper edge, and it was hard to judge 
whether the rubber woald effectually keep the air out. The man lighted » 



BIO THE nOUSEROLD. 

bit of paper, put it into the can, slipped the rnbber ring over, and put the 
glass cover on. The burning paper exhausted the air, and behold the cover 
•was with difficulty removed. 

Cleaning Lamp Chimneys. — Most people, in cleaning lamp chimneys, 
use either a brush made of bristles twisted into a •wire, or a rag on the point 
of scissors. Both of these are bad; for without great care the wire or scis- 
8ors will scratch the glass as a diamond does, •which under the expansive 
po^wer of heat soon breaks, as all scratched glass will. If you want a neat 
little thing that costs nothing, and will save half your glass, tie a piece of 
sponge the size of your e-himney to a pine stick. 

Filling for Cracks In Floors. — A very complete filling for open cracks 
in floors may be made by thoroughly soaking newspapers in a paste made 
of one pound of flour, three quarts of water and a tablespoonful of alum, 
thoroughly boiled and mixed; make the final mixture about as thick as 
putty, a kind of paper putty, and it will harden like papier mache. 

Fainting and Kalsomining Walls. — Before paint or kalsomine is 
applied to walls every cre^vice should be filled with plaster or cement. For 
the kalsomine put a quarter of a pound of white glue in cold water over 
night, and heat gradually in the morning until dissolved. Mix eight pounds 
of whiting with hot water, add the dissolved glue and stir together, adding 
warm water until about the consistency of thick cream. Use a kalsomine 
brush, and finish as you go along. If skim milk is used instead of water, 
the glue may be omitted. 

Marine Glue. — This glue resists the action of water, both hot and cold, 
and most of the acids and alkalies. It is made in the following maimer: 
Take of gum shellac three parts, and of caoutchouc, or India rubber, one 
part by weight. Dissolve the shellac and rubber in separate vessels, in 
ether, free from alcohol, aj^plying a gentle heat. When thoroughly dissolved, 
mix the two solutions, and keep in a bottle tightly corked. Pieces of wood, 
leather, or other substances, joined together by it, will part at any other 
point than the joint thus made. If the glue be thinned by the admixture of 
ether, and applied as a varnish to leather, along the seams -where it is sewed 
together, it renders the joint or seam water tight, and almost impossible to 
separate. 

Artificial Honey. — Take ten pounds of Havana sugar, and three pounds 
of water, and forty grains of cream tartar, and ten drops of essence of pep- 
permint, and three r-ounds of honey. First dissolve the sugar in the water 
over a slow fire, and take off the scum arising therefrom; then dissolve the 
cream tartar in a little warm water, and add mth some stirring; then add 
■the honey heated to a boiling pitch; then add the essence of peppermint, 
stir a few moments, and let stand until cold, when it will be ready for use. 

Cement to Mend CUina. — Take a very thick solution of gum arable, 
and stir into it plaster of Paris, until the mixture is of proper consistency. 
Apply it -with a brush to the fractional edges of the chinaware, and stick 
them together. In a few days it will be impossible to break the article in 
the same place. The whiteness of the cement renders it doubly valuable. 

Ho>v to Cut Crlass. — It is not generally known that glass may be cut, 
wider -water, with a strong pair of scissors. If a round or oval be required, 



HINTS AND HELPS. 611 

take a piece of common window-glass, draw the shape upon it in a black 
line; sink it with your left hand under water as deep aa you can without in- 
terfering with the view of the line, and with your right use the scissors to 
cut away what is not required. 

Polisli for Boots and Shoes— Mix together two pints of the best vine- 
gar, and one pint of water; stir into a quarter of a pound of glue, broken up, 
half a pound of logwood chips and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass. Put 
the mixture over the fire and let it boal ten or fifteen minutes. Then strain 
the liquid, and bottle and cork it. When cold it is fit for us«. The polish 
should be applied with a clean sponge. 

To Keep Furs in Summer. — Furs or woolens may be kept safely from 
moths during the summer by brushing thoroughly, so as to eradicate all the 
moth eggs; then wrap them up in newspaper so that every part is covered 
entirely. This is iinfailing if the clothes or furs bo well brushed beforehand. 
Some think gum camphor put with them is desirable, but I have used only 
the newspaper, and never had any trouble unless the moths were there 
when wrapped up in it. 

To Make Tougli Beef Tender—Those who have worn down their teeth 
m masticating old, tough beef, will find that carbonate of soda will remedy 
the evil. Cut the steaks, the day before using, into slices about two inches 
thick, rub over them a small quantity of soda — wash off next morning — cut 
it into suitable thicknesses, and cook. The same process will answer for 
fowls, legs of mutton, etc. Try it, all who love delicious, tender dishes of 
meat. 

To Clean Ostrich Feathers— White or light tinted ones can be laid on 
a plate and scrubbed gently with a toothbrush, in warm soap suds, then 
well shaken out and well dried either by the hot sun or a good fire. At 
first the feather will have a most discouraging appearance, and a novice is 
apt to think it perfectly spoiled. But after it is perfectly dry it shoiild be 
carefully curled with a penknife or scissors' blade, and it will recover all its 
former plumy softness. 

Ho-»v to Clean Oil Cloths. — To nan them, clean them with hot water or 
Boap suds, and leave them half wiped, and they will look very bright while 
wet, but very dingy and dirty when dry, and will soon crack and peel off. 
But if you wish to preserve them, and have them look new and nice, wash 
them with soft flannel and luke-warm water, and wipe perfectly dry. If you 
want them to look extra nice, after they are dry, drop a few spoonfuls of 
milk over them, and rub with a dry cloth, 

Cenient for Kerosene Oil Lamps. — The cement commonly used for 
fastening the tops on kerosene lamps is plaster of Paris, which is porous 
and quickly penetrated by the kerosene. Another cement which has not 
this defect is made with thi-ee parts of rosin, one of caustic soda, and five of 
water. This composition is mixed with half its weight of plaster of Paris. 
It sets firmly in about three quarters of an hour, and is said to have great 
adhesive power, not permeable to kerosene, a low conductor of heat, and 
but superficially attacked by water. 

A liabor-Saving Invention. — A labor saving invention is to have one 
long cake tin divided in the middle. When making cake put half the guao- 



512 TEE EOUSEEOLS. 

tity in one end of the tin. Add to the remainder spices, raisins, etc., accord- 
ing to taste, and put in the other end of the tin. This saves time in making 
and baking. The result will be two kinds of cake for the basket, and if the 
family is small, one is less likely to have dry cake on hand than if two large 
eakea are made at the same time. 

To Prevent "Wooclenwaro from Cracking. — "Wooden bowls and 
other ware of this sort, as well as all cross sections from tree trunks, and 
short logs cut for various purposes, are very apt to split while seasoning. 
To prevent this completely, the pores of the wood should be well filled with 
linseed, or some other oxidizing oil, while it is yet green, and before it begins 
to show any signs of cracking or checking. This will completely obviate 
this inconvenience. 

Sweeping. — In sweeping carpets, use wet newspaper wning nearly dry 
and torn into pieces. The paper collects the dust, but does not soil the 
carpet. A carpet, particularly a dark carpet, often looks dusty when it does 
not need sweeping; wring out a sponge quite dry in water (a few drops ol 
ammonia helps brighten the color), and wipe off the dust from the carpet. 
This saves much labor in sweeping. 

To Clean an Oily Vessel. — To clean a vessel that has contained kero- 
Bene oil, wash the vessel with thin milk of lime, which forms an emulsion 
with the petroleum, and removes all traces of it. By washing a second time 
with milk of lime and a veiy small quantity of chloride of Ume, and allowing 
the liquid to remain in the vessel about an hour, and then washing it with 
cold water, the smell may be removed. If the milk of lime be used warm 
instead of cold, the operation is rendered much shorter. 

Smoky Cliimneys. — Trouble with smoky chimneys caused by their 
being used for two or more stoves may be averted in most cases by insert- 
ing vertically in the flue a piece of sheet iron, dividing the flue in the center 
for about two feet above the poict where each pipe enters, turning the bot- 
tom of the sheet iron under the pipe, so as to shut it completely off from the 
part of the flue below it. 

Cleansing Sofa Coverings. — If the covers of sofas and chairs are dirty, 
they may be cleansed without being removed, by first washing them over 
with warm water and soap rubbed over them ^vith a flannel; then, before 
they are dry, sponge them over with a strong solution of salt and water, in 
which a small quantity of gall has been mixed. The windows of the room 
should be opened, so as to secure a perfect drying, and the colors and the 
freshness of the articles will be restored. 

Home Made Baking Po-*vder. — Take by weight six parts of bicarbonate 
of soda to five parts of tartaric acid, which being much purer than cream ol 
tartar, is greatly to be preferred. Get the ingredients in this proportion 
from a reliable wholesale druggist. See that they are perfectly dry, roll the 
kimps out, mix thoroughly together, bottle tightly, and keep in a dry place. 
This has been used for months with much satisfaction. 

To Exterminate Fleas. — Take half a pound of Persian insect powder, 
half pound powdered borax, one oiince oil cedar, quarter ounce oil of penny- 
royal prop( rly put up by a druggist; close the room tight, sprinkle this pow- 
d«r on carpet, furniture, and beds, and keep closed over day or night; thea 



HINTS AND HELPS. 513 

open all ■windows and air thoroughly, and in twentj'-four hours thero will bo 
no fleas, flies, or mosquitoes left; the rooms can then be swept and dusted. 
This applies nearly as well to roaches and water-bugs. 

To Clean Corsets. — A lady correspondent writes: " Take out the steels 
at ftront and sides, then scrub them thoroughly with tepid or cold lather of 
■white castile soap, using a very small scrubbing brush; do not lay them ia 
water. When quite clean, let cold water run on them freely, to rinso out 
the soap thoroughly. Dry, wthout ironing (after pulling length wiso untU 
they are straight and shapely), in a cool place. 

To Preserve Cut Flowers— A bouquet of freshly cut flowers may be 
preserved alive for a long time by placing them in a glass or vase with fresh 
water in which a little charcoal has been steeped, or a small piece of cam- 
phor dissolved. The vase should be set upon a plate or dish, and covered 
with a bell glass, around the edges of which, when it comes in contact with 
the plate, a little water should be poured to exclude the air. 

To Clean liooking Glasses. — Keep for this purpose a piece of sponge, 
a cloth, and a silk handkerchief, all entirely free from dirt, as the least grit 
vrill scratch the fine surface of the glass. First sponge it with a little spirits 
of wine, or gin and water, so as to clean off all spots; then dust over it pow- 
der-blue, tied in muslin, rub it lightly and quickly off with the cloth, and 
finish by rubbing it with the silk handkerchief. Be careful not to rub the 
edges of the frame. 

To Clean Gilt Je-welry — Take half a pint of boiUng water, or a little 
less, and put it in a clean oil flask. To this add one ounce of cyanide of po- 
tassium; shake the flask and the cyanide will dissolve. When the liquid is 
cold, add half a fluid ounce of liquor ammonia, and one fluid ounce of recti- 
fied alcohol. Shake the mixture together, and it will be ready for use. All 
kinds of discolored gilt articles may be rendered bright by brushing them 
with the above-mentioned liquid. 

Paste for Cleaning Knives— Make a mixture one part emery and 
three parts crocus martis, in very fine powder. Mix them to a thick paste 
■with a Uttle lard or sweet oil. Have your knife-board covered with a thick 
buff leather. Spread this past* on your leather to about the thickness of a 
quarter of a dollar. Rub your knives in it, and it will make them much 
sharper and brighter, and will wear them out less than the common method 
of cleaning them with brickdust on a bare board, 

A Burning Cliinxney. — A burning chimney, when the soot has been 
lighted by a fire in the fireplace, can be extinguished by shutting all the 
doors in the room, so as to prevent any current of air iip the chimney; then, 
by throwing a few handfuls of common fine salt upon the fire in the grate or 
on the heai-th, the fire in the chimney will be immediately extinguished. In 
burning the salt, muriatic-acid gas ia evolved, which is a prompt extinguisher 
of fire. 

To Purify a Room. — Set a pitcher of water in the apartment, and in a 
few hours it ■will have absorbed all the respired ga«es in the room, the air of 
which will have become purer, but the water utterly filthy. The colder the 
water is, the greater the capacity to contain these gases. At ordinary tem- 
perature a pail of water will absorb a pint of cArbonic acid gas and seveiAl 



ail TEE HOUSEIIOLJ). 

pints of ammonia. The capacity is nearly doubled by reducing the water io 
the temperature of ice. Hence, water kept in a room awhile is unfit for use. 
Por the same reason, water from a pump should always be pumped out in 
the morning before any of it be used. 

Bread-Mak.ing. — A correspondent writes as follows: "I have lately 
adopted a new way in bread making, which has given me the best satisfac- 
tion. Make a hole in the middle of your pan of flour, pour in the required 
amount of yeast and milk, and cover it over slightly with dry flour. If this 
is done at night, you will find in the morning a light foamy mass which I 
stir down once or twice before kneading for the bread tins. I think the 
bread nicer for the ingredients being mixed so slowly. 

To Purify Water. — A tablespoonful of pulveriiied alum sprinkled into 
a hogshead of water (the water stirred at the same time) will, after a few 
hours, by precipitating to the bottom the impure particles, so purify it, that 
it will be found to possess nearly all the freshness and clearness of the finest 
spring water. A pailful, containing four gallons, may be thoroughly puri- 
fied by a single teaspoonful of the alum. 

Save Your Sugar. — AH housekeepers should know that sugar boOed 
with an acid, if it be Vnit three minutes, will be converted into glucose, 
which is the form of sugar found in sweet apples. One pound of sugar has 
as much sweetening power as two and a quarter pounds ©f glucose. In 
other words, one pound of sugar stirred into the fruit after it is cooked, and 
■while yet warm, will make the £i-uit as sweet as two and a quarter pounds 
added while the fruit is boiling. 

To Make Shell' Frames. — The part of the frame that is to be orna- 
mented with shells must be covered thickly with fresh putty; press tha 
shell down into the putty nearly or quite to the top edge of the shell; form 
flowers or any fancy design; then carefully cut away any of the superfluous 
putty that remains, using asharp pen-knife; if any should unavoidably show, 
it can be colored pink or white; let the frame remain in a flat position until 
the putty hardens. 

To Restore the Pile of Velvet. — Stretch the velvet out tightly, and re- 
move all dust from the surface with a clean brush; afterward, well clean it 
with a piece of black flannel, slightly moistened with Florence oil. Then 
lay a wet cloth over a hot iron, and place it under the velvet, allowing the 
steam to pass through it, at the same time brushing the pile of the velvet 
till restored as required. Should any fluff remain on the surface of the vel- 
vet, remove it by brushing with a handful of crape. 

A Simple Insecticide. — Hot alum water is the best insect destroyer 
known. Put the alum into hot water and let it boil till it is all dissolved; 
then apply the solution hot with a brush to all cracks, closets, bedsteads, 
and other places, where any insects are found. Ants, bedbugs, cockroaches 
and creeping things are killed by it; while it has no danger of poisoning the 
family or injuiing the property. 

To Remove Grease. — Aqua ammonia, two ounces; soft water, one 
i[uart; saltpeter, one teaspoonful; shaving soap in shavings, one ounce; mix 
together; dissolve the soap well, and any grease or dirt that cannot be re- 
moved with this preparation, nothing els« need be tried for it. 



ffiyrS AlfD HELPS. lis 

Mending Glass. — For mending valuable glass objects which would bo 
diEflgured by common cement, chrome cement may be used. This is a 
mixture of five parts gelatine to one of a solution of acid chromate of lime. 
The broken edges are covered with this, pressed together and exposed to 
sunlight, the efl'eot of the latter being to render the compound inaolubl* 
even in boUing water. 

To Improve Pine "Work. — Pino work brushed two or thre« times with 
a strong boiling decoction of logwood chips, and varnished with a solution of 
shellac in alcohol, appears almost like mahogany, both in color and hard- 
ness. After wafe-hmg with decoction of logwood and diying thoroughly, it 
should receive two coats of varnish. Then carefully sandpaper and polish, 
and give a final coat of shellac varnish. 

Ink from Carpets. — To remove freshly-spilt ink from carpets, first 
take up as much as possible of the ink with a teaspoon. Then pour cold 
sweet milk upon the spot and take up as before, pouring on mUk until at 
last it becomes only slightly tinged with black; then wash with cold water, 
and absorb with a cloth without too much rubbing. 

Black Iitk.-i-To make jet black ink, that is shiny and glistening when 
applied, dissolve in one-half pint of soft water, three-eighths ounce of 
potassium bichromate, and add sixty ounces of logwood extract dissolved in 
one gallon of water; then dissolve in one gallon of water, by continued boU- 
ing, borax six ounces, shellac one and one-half ounces. Mix all together 
while warm and add ammonia three ounces. 

Fastening Fruit Jars. — Very many housekeepers are greatly annoyed 
by the opening of their fruit jars after they have been carefully sealed. The 
difficulty arises from the fact that the rubber bands furnished "with them aro 
so hard, have so little rubber in them, that they do not yield to compres- 
sion, and hence do not become tight. Boiling the bands before using is said 
to obviate the difficulty. 

To Color Stockings Blue — To color stockiugs a delicate blue, use 
bluing. Put into warm water till the right shade, dip the stocking in and set 
with salt and water. Very handsome pink of a delicate shade may be made 
by using rose aniline. Make a very little dye and weaken to the right 
shade; it would bo better to dissolve the aniline in a bottle and shade by 
adding till the right shade is obtained. Those are pretty set with warm 
alum water. 

To Clean Japanned Waiters.—Eub on with a sponge a little white 
soap and some warm water, and wash quite clean. Never use hot water, as 
it will cause the Japan to peel. Wipe dry, sprinkle a little flour over it; let 
it rest awhile, and then rub it with a soft dry cloth, and finish with a soft 
piece of old silk. 

Moths in Carpets — If the moths have begun to eat your carpet, take 
the tacks out, turn it back a half yard all around the room, wash the boards 
with a saturated solution of camphor, putting it on A\'ith a brush (a paint 
brush is good), then lay the carpet back in its proper place, and put over it 
a towel wrung out of water and camphor, and iron it thoroughly with a real 
hot iron so as to steam it through and through, and this will kill the insects 
and all their larrsB. 



616 THE nOUSEnOLB. 

To Clean Steel Articles. — Polished steel articles, if rubbed every morn- 
ing with leather, will not become dull or rusty; but if rust has been suffered 
to gather, it must be immediately removed by covering the steel with sweet 
oil, and allowing it to remain on for two days; then sprinkle it over with 
finely-powdered unslaked lime, and rub it with polishing leather. 

A Useful Table for Housewives. — Flour— One pound is one quart. 
Meal — One pound and two ounces are one rjuart. Butter — One pound is one 
quart. Powdered white sugar — one pound and one ounce is a quart. Tea 
eggs are a pound. A common tumbler holds half a pint. A teacup is a gill. 

Crystalliietl Cliiinney Ornaments. — Select a crooked twig of white 
or black thorn; wrap some loose wool or cotton around the branches, and 
tic it on with worsted. Suspend this in a basin or deep jar. Dissolve two 
pounds of alum in a quart of boiling water, and pour it over the twig. 
Allow it to stand twelve hours. Wire baskets may be covered in the same 
way. 

To Restore Color. — When color on a fabric has been accidentally or 
otherwise destroyed by acid, ammonia is applied to neutralize the same, 
after which an application of chloroform will, in almost all cases, restore the 
original color. The application of ammonia is common, but that of chloro- 
form is but little known. 

Cleaning "Wooden Floors. — The dirtiest of floors may be rendered 
beautifully clean by the following process: First scrub with sand, then rub 
with a lye of caustic soda, using a stiif brush, and rinse off with warm water. 
Just before the floor is dry, moisten with dilute hydrochloric acid, and then 
with a thin paste of bleaching powder (hypochlorite of hme). Let this 
remain over night, and wash m the morning. 

To Remove Stains from Broartclotli. — Take one ounce of pipe-clay 
that has been ground fine, and mis it with twelve drops of alcohol, and the 
same quantity of spirits of turpentine. Moisten a little of this mixture with 
alcohol, and rub it on the spots. Let it remain till dry, then rub it off with 
a woolen cloth, and the spots will disappear. 

To Dye Furs. — Any dye that will color wool will color furs. .In buying 
furs, examine the density and length of the down next the skin: this can 
easily be done by blowing briskly against the set of the fur; if it is very 
close and dense, it is all right, but if it opens easy and exposes much of the 
skin, i-eject it. 

Wow to Preserve Shoe Soles. — Melt together tallow and common resin, 
in the proportion of two parts of the former to one of the latter, and apply 
the preparation, hot, to the soles of the boots or shoes — as much of it as the 
latter will absorb. One farmer declares that this recipe alone has been 
worth more than five dollars. 

To Take Stains from Marble. — Make a mixture of one ounce of soda, 
a piece of stone lime the size of a walnut, quarter of a pound of whiting and 
the same amount of soft soap; boil these together ten niimites, and then put 
the mixture on the marble while hot; leave this on twenty-four hours, the- 
wash off with clean, warm watea:. Polish first with soft flannel and the*, 
with chamois skin. 



MliTfS AND HELPS. Sll 

To Clean Marble ^ — Mix powdered chalk with pumice stone, each one 
part with two parte of common soda, into a paste with water, and rub it 
thoroughly on tho marble; or mix quicklime and strong soap lye to con- 
sistency of milk, and lay it on the marble for twenty-four hours; in both 
cases wash off thoroughly with soap and water. 

To Purify Butter — The French purify their butter by melting it in pot« 
plunged into water heated to nearly boiling point; and sometimes they mix 
a pure brine with the melting butter, whereby they flavor the subsidence of 
the coagulated caseine and other impurities. The supernatant clear butter 
should be drawn or poured off, and rapidly cooled. 

To Mount Cliromos. — Take unbleached muslin and stretch it over a 
wooden strainer; next dampen the back of the picture with paste, and lay it 
on the canvas; then with a dry rag rub well the back of the canvas to pre- 
vent blistering. If you use card or pasteboard, simply dampen the back of 
the picture vnih. paste and lay it on the board, taking care that it is 
smoothly laid on. 

Ho-w to Keep Cider S-»veet._The cider after it comes from the press is 
allowed to stand until tho pomace settles. It is then put into a clean vessel 
over a fire, and brought to a boil — in the meantime skimming off the scum 
as it rises. It is then put into small kegs or bottles, and tightly corked or 
sealed. By this process cider may be kept sweet for years. 

Excellent Paste Blacking. —Half a pound of ivory black, half a pound 
of molasses, half an ounce of powdered alum, one drachm of turpentine, one 
ounce of sulphuric acid, two ounces of raw linseed oil. The ivory black and 
molasses must first be mixed together until thoroughly incorporated; then 
add the rest of the ingredients. It keeps best in a bladder. 

To Color Floors "Walnut Tint. — Apply with paint brush or rag raw 
linseed oil, mixed with burnt umber. When dry, apply a coat of boiled 
linseed oil without color. The quantity of umber depends upon the wood, 
some requiring much more color to make a given tint. A small quantity of 
the mixture well rubbed in, has the best effect and dries sooner. 

To Improve Pens. — When a pen has been used until it appears to be 
spoiled, place it over a flame (a gaslight for instance) for, say, a quarter of a 
minute, then dip it into water, and it will be again fit for use. A new pen, 
which is found too hard to write with, will become softer by being thus 
heated. 

Vinegar._A cheap and wholesome article of vinegar may be made of 
water, molasses and yeast, say twenty-five gallons of water, four of molasses, 
and one of yeast. This, when it ferments, will yield very good vinegar. A 
fair imitation of white -nine vinegar may be made of mashed raisins and 
water kept in a warm place for a month. 

Sponges — After long use sponges are liable to smell very badly unless 
carefully cleaned every day. By rubbing a fresh lemon thoroughly into tho 
sponge and then rinsing it several times in lukewarm water it will become 
as sweet as when new. 

To Reno-rate the Tops of Kid Boots. — Defaced kid boota will bv 
greatly improTed by being rubbed tceS with a mixture of cream and ink. 



619 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

To Preserve Bright Grates or Fire Irons from Rnsti — Make BtirOBg 

paste of fresh lime and water, and with a fine brush smear it as thickly ab 
possible over all the pc/lished surface requiring pi-escrvation. By this sim- 
ple means, all the grates and fire irons in an empty house may be kept for 
months free from harm, without further care or attention. 

Simple Disinfectant.— Cut two or three good-sized onions in halves, 
and place them on a jDlate on the floor; they absorb noxious efBuvia, etc., in 
the sick room, in an incredibly ehort space of time, and are greatly to be 
preferred to perfumery for the same purpose. They should be changed 
every six hours. 

To Wliiteii Porcelain Saucepans. — Have the pans half filled with hot 
water; throw in a tablespoonful of pulverized borax, and let it boil. If this 
does not remove all the stains, soap a cloth and sprinkle on plenty of pul- 
verized borax. Scour them well. 

To Take Grease from Paper. — Gently warm the part containing the 
grease, and apply blotting-paper so as to exti-act as much as possible. BoU 
some clear essential oil of turpentine, and apply it to the warm paper with 
a soft, clean brush. A little rectified spii-its of wine should be put on after- 
ward. 

To Set Colors. — Salt or beef's gall in the water helps to set black. A 
tablespoonful of spirits of turpentine to a gallon of water sets most blues, 
and alum is very efficacious in setting green. Black or very dark cahcoes 
should be stiffened wth gum arable— five cents' worth is enough for a dress. 
If, however, starch is used, the garment should be turned wrong side out. 

To Clean Ribbons. — Take one tablespoonful of brandy, one of soft soap, 
and one of molasses. Mix thoroughly together; place the ribbon upon a 
smooth board, and apply the mixture with a soft brush; after which rinse 
in cold water, and roll up in a cloth until nearly dry. Iron with a flat-iron, 
not too hot. 

Copying-Inli.— Take two gallons of rain water and put into it one-quar- 
ter pound of gum arable, one-quarter pound clean copperas, three-quarters 
pound nutgalls pulverized. Mix and shake occasionally for ten days, and 
strain. If needed sooner, let it steep in an ii'on kettle until the required 
strength is obtained. 

To Cleanse Gilt Fi-ames.- Take sufficient flour of sulphur to give a 
golden tinge to one and one-half pints of water; boil in this water four or five 
onions, strain, and when cold wash with soft biiish any part that requii-es 
restoring; when dry it Mill come out as good as new. 

Paste for Removing Grease from Silk. — Rub together fine Prench 
chalk and lavender to the consistence of a thin paste, and apply thoroughly 
to the spots with the fingers; place a sheet of bro\vn or blotting-paper above 
and below the silk, and smooth it mth a moderately-heated iron. The 
French chalk may then be removed by brushing. 

To Purify Vessels. — All 6oi"ts of vessels and utensils may be purified 
from long retained smells of every kind in the easiest and most perfect man- 
ner, by rinsing them out well with charcoal powder after the grosser impuri- 
ties have been scoured off with sand and water. 



Glycerine Cement. — A cement, eaid to b» capabla of use •wher* re«i»- 
tance to the action of both vrater and heat is required, is composed by mix- 
ing ordinary glycerine with dry litharge, so as to constitute a tough paste. 
For uniting the joints of steam-pipes, and other similar applications, thio 
preparation is said to be very satisfactory. 

A Candle to Burn all NigHt. — When, as in a case of sickness, a dull 
light is wished, or when matches are mislaid, put powdered salt on the can- 
dle til) it reaches the black part of the wick. In this way a mild and steady 
light may be kept throughout the night by a small piece of candle. 

To Clean White Kid Shoes. — White kid shoes can be cleaned by dip- 
ping a perfectly clean white flannel cloth in a little ammonia, and then rub- 
bing the cloth over a cake of white soap; after doing this, rub the kid gently, 
and the soiled places will be white again. As the flannel becomes soiled, 
change for a clean one. 

To Clean WHiite Croods. — The following volatile soap will remove paint, 
grease spots, etc., and restore the purity of color of white goods: Four table- 
spoonfuls of spirits of hartshorn; four tablespoonfuls of alcohol, and a table- 
spoonful of salt. Shake the whole well together in a bottle and apply with 
a sponge. 

To Restore Kid Gloves. — To restore old kid gloves, make a thick mu- 
cilage by boiling a handful of flaxseed; add a little dissolved soap; then 
when the mixture cools, with a piece of white flannel wipe the gloves, previ- 
ously fitted to the hand. Use only enough of the cleaner to take otf the dirt, 
without wetting through the glove. 

Taking Up a Carpet—On taking up a carpet, remove it carefully, then 
apply wet (not too wet) sawdust plentifully again and again. The floor will 
scarcely need washing, and you will be surprised at the absence of smother- 
ing dii-t, and I am sure will use no other method in future. 

To Prevent Rust in Tinware— An easy and effectual plan to keep 
tinware from rusting consists in rubbing the new vessel inside and out with 
fresh lard or butter; then placing in the oven and keeping hot for several 
hours. The heat must not be so great as to melt the solder; still it is essen- 
tial that the tin be kept very warm. 

To Render Frnit Jars Air Tight— When canning fruit have a cup of 
flour paste ready; if your rubbers are old, or the zinc rings or covers are 
bent a little, you may still make them air tight with the paste. If you are 
at all doubtful about the condition of your can it is a good notion to use the 
paste. 

To Preserve Green Peas for Winter Use— Gather the peas when plen- 
tiful, shell them; then wash and scald them in hot water. When thoroughly 
drained, put them into bottles, and fill up each bottle with a strong brine; 
at the top of the bottle pour a thin layer of salad oil. Cork and seal the bot- 
tles, which must be quite full and kept upright. 

Liquid Glue. — Liquid glue may be made by dissolving glue in strong, 
hot vinegar, and adding one-fourth as much alcohol and a little alum. This 
will keep any length of time when placed in a cloaely stopped bottle, and 
will mend horn, wood and mother-of-pearl. 



620 THE ITOUSETTOLD. 

To Crystallixe "Wimlows. — Windows are crystallized, or made to imi- 
tate ground glass, by dissolving epsom salts in hot beer or a weak solution 
of gum arable. You can make any pattern or border you please by cutting 
out a design on a sheet of pasteboard, and rubbing the design with a damp 
cloth. 

To Take Grease out of Velvet. — Get some turpentine from the oil- 
shop, and pour it over the place that is greasy; rub it till quite dry with a 
piece of clean llannel. If the grease be not removed, repeat the application, 
and when done brush the i^lace well, and hang the garment up in the open 
air to take away the smell. 

To Presheji Black liace._Lay it on a clean table, sponge it all over 
with a weak solution of borax, about an even teaspoonful, or less, to a pint 
of warm water. Use a piece of old black silk, or black kid glove is better, 
to sponge with. While damp cover with a piece of black silk or cloth, and 
iron. 

To Remove Grease from a Stove Heartli. — When oil or any other 
grease has been dropped on a stove hearth, immediately cover the place 
with very hot ashes. After a while clear away the ashes, and if the grease 
has not quite disappeared, repeat the process. 

Waterproof Coating for Cotton or Linen. — Boiled linseed oil, con- 
taining about an ounce of the oxide of manganese, or litharge, to the quart, 
will make an excellent waterproof coating for cotton or Unen cloth. Put on 
several coats with a bi'ush, and allow each to dry perfectly. 

Indelible Marking Ink._Nitrato of silver, two drachms; distilled 
water three ounces. Dissolve. Moisten the spot to be marked with a con- 
centrated solution of carbonate of patassa, to which a little gum water must 
be added. When the spot has become dry, write upon it with the solution 
of nitrate of silver. 

Canaries. — ^ThG parasites which affect these pretty feathered pets may 
be got rid of by merely placing a clean white cloth over the cage at night. 
In the moi-uing it will bo covered with very minute red spots, almost invisi- 
ble without a microscope. These are the vermin so annoying and so fatal 
to the birds. 

To Improve Stove Polisli. — Stove luster, when mixed with turpentine, 
and applied in the usual manner, is blacker, more glossy, and more durable 
than when mixed with any other hquid. The turpentine prevents rust, and 
when put on an old rusty stove will make it look as well as new. 

To Remove Paint from a Wall.— If you intend papering a painted 
wall, yoit must first get off the paint, other\nse the paper will not stick. To 
do this, mix in a bucket with warm water a sufficient quantity of pearlash, 
or potash, so as to make a strong solution. Dip a brush into this, and with 
it scour off all the paint, finishing with cold water and a flannel. 

To Brigliten Jewelry— It is possible, if not probable, that you do not 
know how to brighten gold or silver jewelry, if tarnished. Very well, then, 
brush it with an old tooth brush wet with soap suds, and place in sawdust 
to dry. Some ladies keep their jewelry in sawdust. The jewelers nee this 
method. 



HINTS AND IT}': LP 8. 5ii 

To Prevent Rust. — A composition that mil effectually preveut Iron, 
Steel, etc., from rusting. Mix -with fat oil varnish four-lifths of well rcctifloil 
spirits of turpentine. Apply this varnish with a sponge, and the articles will 
retain their metallic brilliancy, and not be liable to i-ust. 

To Clean Black Veils. — Pass them through a warm Uquor of bullock's 
gall and water; rinse in cokl water; then take a small piece of glue, pour 
boiling water on it, and pass the veil through it; clap it. and frame to dry. 
Instead of framing, it may be fastened with drawing-pins closely fixed upon 
a very clean paste, or drawing-board. 

To Sharpen Scissors. —Take a coarso sewing needle and hold it firmly 
between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand; then take the scissors 
in your right hand, and cut them smoothly and quickly from hand to point. 
The dullest scissors, unless they are entirely worn out, can soon be 
Bharpened in this way. 

Inlt Stains on Farnttnre. — Ink stains on mahogany or black walnut 
furniture may be removed by touching the stains with a feather wet in a 
solution of nitre and water, eight drops to a spoonful of water. As soon as 
the spots disappear rub the place at once with a cloth wet in cold water. II 
the ink stains then remain, repeat, making the solution stronger. 

Kerosene Fires. — It ought to be more generally known that wheat 
flour is probably the best possible article to thi-ow over a fire caused by the 
spilling and igniting of kerosene. It ought to be known, because flour is 
always within convenient reach. 

Use of Lemon Leaves. — Lemon seeds, if planted and treated as house 
plants, wUl make pretty little shrubs. The leaves can then bo used for 
flavoring. Tie a few in a cloth and drop in apple sauce when boiling and 
nearly done. It is a cheap essence. 

Unpleasant Odor from Cabbage. — The reason why cabbage emits 
euch a disagreeable smell when boiling is because the process diasolves the 
essential oil. The water shoiild be changed when the cabbage is half-boiled, 
and it will thus acquire a greater sweetness. 

Glazed 'U'^liite^vasb. — Take two gallons of water, one pound and a 
half of rice, and one pound of moist sugar. Let the mixture boil until the 
rice is quite dissolved, and then thicken it to the consistence of whitewash 
with finely-powdered lime. This whitewash has a pretty satiny look, and 
does nicely for the inside of bird cages, as well as for commoner purposes. 

Mold oti .Telly._lf the paper which is put over jelly be dipped in the 
white of an egg, it will when dry be tight and firm, and keep the fruit from 
molding wth much more certainty than if it is dipped in alcohol or brandy. 
The paper which is laid next the fruit is meant, not that which is tied or 
pasted over the glass. 

Positive Cure for Water Bugs._To a kettleful of water add a cupful 
of washing soda. Let it come to a boil; after which pour it down the water 
pipes, commencing at the top of the house. Repeat the operation once or 
twice and you will have destroyed 99 per cent, of the bugs, which breed in- 
side the pipes during the month of September. Hhe few remainjiig ia tke 
room can be reached with inaect powder. 



522 THE ITOUSEHOLP. 

To Remove Tar from the Hands — We recommend rubbing the 
hands with the ontside of fresh orange or lemon peel, and wiping dry imme- 
diately. It is astonishing what a small piece will clean. The volatile oila 
in the skins dissolve the tar, so that it can be wiped off. 

Drying Fruits. — Pamilics of farmers engaged in diying fruits are 
reminded that the solar heat is not sufficiently intense to destroy insect eggs 
that may have been deposited in the fruit when green, or in the process ol 
drying. If put in a moderately warm oven for ten minutes all parasites and 
their eggs would be destroyed. In countiies where fruits are extensively 
dried the treatment is practiced generally. 

Cement for Glass, Crockery, Etc—Four pounds of white glue, one 
and a half pounds of dry white lead, half a pound of isinglass, one gallon of 
soft water, one quart of alcohol, one-half pmt of white varnish. Dissolve 
the ghie and isinglass in the water by gentle heat if preferred, stir in the 
lead, put the alcohol in the varnish, and mix the whole together. 

Care of Lamp Chimneys — After the lamps are filled and the chim- 
neys washed and put on the shelf, take pieces of newspaper and roll in the 
form of a chimney and slip over chimney and lamp. It will protect from 
dust and flies, and when the lamps are lighted one will be rewarded by 
finding them as clear and bright as when first put in order. 

Care of Flour. — Flour is hke biitter; it absorbs smells readily. It 
should not be kept in a place where there are onions, fish, vegetables 
decaying, or other odorous substances, nor in a damp room or cellar. Keep 
it in a cool, dry, airy room, where not exposed to a freezing temperature, 
nor to one above 70 degrees, and always sift before using. 

Mites in Cheese. — Cheese kept in a cool larder or cellar, with a cloth 
rung out of clean cold water constantly upon it will never have mites in it, 
or if it has, this will soon destroy them, and also gi"eatly improve the 
cheese, keeping it always moist. 

To Clean Glass. — For cleaning glass a newspaper is one of the best 
articles to use. The chemical operation of some of the ingredients of print- 
ing ink gives a beautiful polish. Slightly moisten a piece of paper, roll it 
up and rub the glass; then take a dry, soft piece and repeat the process. 
No hnt will remain, as ia- the case when cloth is used. 

Cleaning Hats. — "White fur or light beaver hats can be nicely cleaned 
with salt and Indian meal. Take about equal proportions of each, place it 
m a pan and heat it in the oven until it is as hot as can be handled. Lay 
the fui on a clean cloth and rub gently with the salt and meal until the dirt 
is removed, then shake it thoroughly. 

To Improve Pickles— Grape leaves are recommended to put on top 
of pickles to keep them sharp and free from mold. Fresh green grape 
leaves are better than flannel cloths. They should be rlased in pure watei 
and then drained quite dry, and laid over every piece Lt the jar. They 
ahould be changed once a week. 

To Clean Smoky Ceilings — Ceilings that have been smoked by » 
kerosene lamp should be washed off with eoda water. Grained wood should 
De washed with cold tea. 



ITTN-TS A2rP BKLPS. 628 

To Re^move Marks from Tables. — Hot dishes somctimea leave whitish 
marks on varuished tables, when set, as they should not be, carelessly upon 
them. For removing them, pour some lamp-oil on the spot, and rub it hard 
with a soft cloth. Pour on a little spirits, and rub it dry with another clotb, 
and the whole mark will disappear, leaving the table as bright as before. 

To Soften Water. — Hard waters are rendered very soft and pure, rival- 
ing distilled water, by merely boiling a two-ounce vial, say, in a kettleful of 
water. The carbonate of lime and any impurities will be found adhering to 
the vial. The water boils very much quicker at the same time. 

To Remove Briiises from Furniture. — Wet the bruised spots with 
warm weather. Soak a piece of brown paper of several thicknesses in warm 
water, and lay over the place. Then apply a warm flat-iron until the moist- 
ure is gone. Eepeat the process if needful, and the bruises wiii disappear. 

Celebrated Recipe for Silver "Wasli. — One ounce of nitric acid, ona 
ten cent piece, and one ounce of quicksilver. Put in an open glass vessel, 
and let it stand until dissolved; then add one pint of water, and it is ready 
for use. Make it into a powder by adding whiting, and it may be used on 
brass, copper, German silver, etc. 

To Blacken Stoves.—Those who are troubled to blacken their kitchen 
stoves in winter, on account of keeping a constant fire, try my plan of adding 
about a teaspoonful of sugor to a teacupful of mixed blacking. You can use 
this when the stove is quite hot, and the sugar causes the blacking to ad- 
here to the stove. 

Damp Closets. — For a damp closet or clipboard, which is liable to cause 
mildew, place in it a saucer full of quicklime, and it will not only absorb all 
apparent dampness, but sweeten and disinfect the place. Renew the lime 
once a lortJiight, or as often as it becomes slaked. 

Xew Kettles. — The best way to prepare a new iron kettle for use is to 
fill it with clean potato parings; boil them for an hour or more, then wash 
the kettle \\\\\i hot water, wipe it dry, and rub it with a little lard; repeat 
the rubbing for half a dozen times after using. In this way you will pre- 
vent rust and all the annoyances liable to occur in the use of a new kettle. 

To Clean "Wliite Knitted Garments. — Take those not needing wash- 
ing, being only slightly soiled, place them in a pillow-case one at a time, 
sprinkle flour through it, and shake well, until it looks as bright as new. 
Borax is excellent to wash flannels with, dissolved in luke warm water. 

To Improve and Presei'\'e Butter. —Take two parts good salt, one 
part sugar, one-half part saltpetre; mix well together, and use one ounce 
for every pound of butter, thoroughly worked into it. It makes the butter 
rich, good color, and prevents bitterness. It ^viU keep good for two or three 
years. Let it stand a month before it is used, and keep it closely covered. 

To Keep Cranbeii-ies all AVinter. — Put them in a cool room, where 
there is no danger of freezing, and either spread out on a cloth or so as to 
give each berry light and air; or, which is a sure way, put them in a barrel 
under water. 

For Oiling "Walnut Furniture. —Raw linseed oil rubbed with a flannel 
•loth, then polish with dry flannel; be careful not to put too much on. 



m TBE HonssnoiD. 

To \1/ltit«n lifnen Garments—Linen gamipnts which have become 
yellow from time, may be whitened by being boiled in a lather made of milk 
and pure white soap, a pound of the latter to a gallon of the former. After 
the boiling process the linen shoiild be twice rinsed, a little bluing beinjr 
added to the last water used. 

To Eradicate Vermin — It is eaid that common sulphur will kill or 
drive away the little fish-shaped, silvery pest which infests our pantry. 
Sprinkle the sulphur freely about, and the place will soon be cleared of tbo 
vermin. 

How to Smooth Ribbons — Take a moderately hot flat-iron on the 
ironing-board, then place the ribbon on the left side of the iron, and pull it 
carefully through underneath the iron. If the ribbon is not pulled too fast, 
and the iron is the right warmth, this will be found to be a much better way 
than simply rubbing the iron over the ribbon. 

To Get Rid of Plies.— The following is better than fly paper: Take 
half a teaspoonful of black pepper in powder, one teaspoonful of brown 
sugar, and one teaspoonful of cream; mix them well together and place 
them in a room, on a plate, whei'o the flies are troublesome, and they will 
Boon disappear. 

To Take the Woody Taste Out of a Wooden Pail—Fill the pail 
with boiUng hot water; let it remain until cold, then empty it, and dissolve 
acme soda in lukewarm water, adding a little lime to it, and wash the inside 
well with the solution; after that scald with hot water and rinse well. 

To Prevent Iron from Rusting. — "Warm the iron until you cannot 
bear your hand on it without burning yourself. Then rub it with new and 
clean white wax. Put it again to the fire till it has soaked in the wax. When 
doae rub it over with a piece of serge. This prevents the iron from rusting 
afterwards. 

To Revive Withered Flowers. — Plunge the stems into boiling water, 
and by the time the water is cold, the flowers will revive. The ends of the 
stalks should then be cut off, and the flowers should be put to stand in cold 
water, and they will keep fresh for several days. 

To Remove Putty fi-om Glass— Dip a small brush in nitric or 
muriatic acid, and with it paint over the dry putty that adheres to the 
broken glasses and frames of the windows. After an hour's interval the 
putty will have become so soft as to be easily removed. 

To Clean Pine Toothed Combs— Clean a fine-toothed comb by put- 
ting a piece of rather coarse sewing silk through the arm of a chair, or fasten- 
ing it in some way at a convenient height. Hold the two ends of the thread 
and press the comb upon it, rubbing briskly, letting the silk penetrate all 
the spaces. 

Baking Griddle Cakes W^itho-t Grease— If you wish to do away 
with the use of grease on the griddle for baking cakes, have the ordinary 
iron griddle ground smooth on a grindstone and rubbed off with a piece of 
Ane sand paper wrapped tnnud a block of wood. This is much l)»tt«r thftB 
ft soaps tone griddle. 



HINTS AND HELPS. S25 

Preserving Frwit._Dr. Kedzio says: la cooking acid fruits house- 
keepers un-wittingly waste a good part of the sugar. Anxious to get the 
fullest efifect of the sugar upon the small fruits, they boil the two together, 
and thus convert most of the cane sugar into grape sugar. Several years 
ago my assistant in chemistry tested this matter by placing one hundred 
parts of ripe gooseberries in a stewpan with water to cover them, added 
twenty-five parts of sugar and cooked the fruit. A second portion of the 
same berries was cooked without sugar, and after the fruit was partially 
cooked the twenty-five parts of sugar added, and when this sugar had dis- 
solved both samples of cooked fruit were analyzed, when one-half the sugar 
in the first batch was converted into glucose, and only one-tenth of the cano 
sugar in the second batch was thus changed. If the gooseberries had been 
green the results would have been more striking. If very acid fruits, like 
currants and cranberries, arc rapidly cooked by boiling and then set to cool 
for a few minutes and the sugar added, a fine jelly-like mass will be found 
when the sauce is cold, very different from the watery mess so often seen. 
In making preserves the same principles hold good for the most part, though 
preserves are more apt to work or ferment if sugar is not cooked with the 
fruit. In this case it is better to steam the fruit till it is so tender that a 
straw may penetrate it, then put the fruit into cans, add the sugar, and seal 
up at once. Three pounds of sugar for four pounds of fruit will be ample. 

How to Presei-»-e Feathers — The disposal and management of the 
feathers is a thing that calls for attention. As soon as a fowl is killed, and 
while yet warm, let it be carefully plucked. Separate the large wing- 
feathers; put the others into small paper bags previously prepared. Put 
these bags into an oven and let them remain about half an hour; take them 
out, repeat the process two or three times, then keep the feathers in a dry 
place till required. The oven must not be too hot. Care must be taken to 
free the feathers of any skin or flesh that may adhere to them while being 
plucked, or they will be tainted. The hard quiliy portion of the larger 
feathers must be cut off with a pair of scissors. The wing and tail feathers 
may be stripped and added to the others. Previous to putting them in the 
oven, some recommend that the feathers should be put loosely into a dry 
tub or basket and shaken up daily, so that all may in turn be exposed to 
the air. Others recommend, as an easier plan, merely to suspend the bag 
from the ceiling of a warm kitchen, or on the wall behind a fire-place, where 
it IS practicable. In this case they will take longer to dry. Feathers can be 
quickly and effectually dried and cleaned by the agency of steam; but it is 
rather an expensive method, and the thrifty henwife will doubtless prefer 
having the produse of her own yard prepared under her own eye and by 
her own directions. 

Putting Avray "Winter Clothing. — Housewives when about to put 
away their heavy wmter clothing should select one closet in the house in 
which to hang the dresses, overcoats, and heavy jackets. The clothes should 
be hung on a line in the yard on a sunny day and well aired and beaten. 
The closet should be thoroughly washed and sprinkled with good black 
pepper and insect powder. Then hang the garments up and close the door. 
They will keep all summer, but more pepper should be put in every month. 
Furs should have the same treatment, and after being thoroughly sprinkled 
with black pepper, should be put in newspapers so that no air may get at 
them. Erery opening in the paper must be sealed. This process of vrap> 



626 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

ping in newspapers is said to insure safety against motbB, as they cannot 
cut through the printer's ink without dying; but it is wise to spiinkle the 
garment with pepper unless one intends to take it out during the warm 
weather. 

To Keep Lamp Cliimneys from Cracking. — The following recipe 

for keeping lamp chimneys from cracking is taken from a Leipzig journal 
devoted to the glass interest. Place your tumblers, chimneys or vessels 
which you desire to keep from cracking, in a pot filled with cold water, add 
a little cooking salt, allow the mixture to boil well over a fire, and then cool 
slowly. Glass treated in this way is said not to crack even if exposed to 
very sudden changes of temperature. Chimneys are said to become very 
durable by this process, which may also be extended to crockery, stone- 
ware, porcelaiu, etc. The pi'ocess is simply one of annealing, and the 
slower the process, especially the cooling portion of it, the more eifective 
will be the work. 

Care of Velvet. — How to brush velvet is a thing, easy as it seems, not 
known to everybody. The whole secret lies in the management of the 
brush. Take a hat brush that is not too soft, but has the bristles elastic, 
and that will return at once to their original state after being pressed aside. 
Hold this firmly under the palm of the hand, in the direction of the arm, 
and with the ijristles downward; and pressing them first gently into the 
substance ot the velvet, then twist around the arm, hand, and brush alto- 
gether as on an axis, without moving them forward or backward. The 
foreign matters will be drawn up and flirted out of the flock without injury 
to the substance of the velvet; and the brush mitst be lifted up and placed 
in a similar manner over every part required to be brushed. By this means 
velvet will be improved instead of deteriorated; and will last for years. 

Housekeeper's WeigUts and Measures. — Two gills make half a pint. 
Two pints make one quart. Four quarts make one gallon. Half a gallon is 
a quarter of a peck. Two gallons make one jicck. Four gallons make half 
a bushel. Eight gallons make one bushel. About sixty drops of any thin 
liquid will fill a common-sized teaspoon. Four tablespoons, or one-half a 
gill, will fill a common-sized wine-glass. Four wine-glasses will fill a half- 
pint meastire, a common tumbler, or a large cofifee-cup. Ten eggs usually 
weigh one pound before they are broken. A tablespoonful of salt weighs 
one ounce. 

Cleaning Matting._To clean and freshen old matting, rub it with a 
cloth wet in salt water, being careful not to allow any drops of water to dry 
in the matting, as they will leave spots difBcult to remove. Heavy, var- 
nished furniture should never rest directly upon the matting, for even good 
varnish, becoming soft in warm weather, will stain the straw. Matting may 
be turned if the loose ends of the cords are threaded iu a large needle and 
drawn through to the other side. 

To Remove Coffee or Milk Stains. — The use of glycerine is recom- 
mended for this purpose. The silk, woolen, or other fabric is painted over 
with glycerine, then washed with a clean linen rag dipped in lukewarm rain 
water, until clean. It is afterwards pressed on the wrong side with a mod- 
erately warm iron as long as it seems damp. The moat delicate colors are 
unaffected by this treatment. 



■ HINTS AND HELPS. 527 

To Mend Cracks in a. Wall. — Mend cracks in a fl^all with plaster of 
Paris mixed vrith cold water to a very soft paste. Wet but little at a time, 
as it hardens rapidly, and cannot be used again. Apply with a knife blade. 
If the plaster ia not convenient, fill cracks with stiff flour paste, cover with 
a strip of white muslin, and whitewash over. Old, cracked closets look 
wonderfully well after this treatment. 

To Keep Milk. — If milk is brought just to the boiling point, then poured 
immediately into cans and sealed air tight, it will keep indefinitely. As the 
air is expelled by boiling, the milk keeps just as canned goods do. If glass 
jars are used they must be heated so thai the boiling milk will not break 
them. Many families keep but one cow, and this plan will enable them to 
have milk during the weeks that she is dry. 

To Presei-»'e Steel Pens._A simple mode of preventing ink from dam- 
aging metallic pens, is to throw either into the inkstand or the bottle in 
which the ink is kept, a few nails, broken bits of steel pens (not tarnished) 
or any other pieces of iron not rusted. The corrosive action of the acid con- 
tained in the ink is expended on the iron introduced. 

To Destroy Clinkers in a Stove. — Clinkers will accumulate on fire 
brick. Empty the stove or grate of coals and ashes; while hot, throw in two 
or three quarts of oyster shells, or a less quantity of salt, then cleave oft 
the clinkers. 

To Clean Damask Curtains. — If crimson, wash well with ordinary 
soap and water, then rinse in clean cold water, wring through a wringing- 
machine, and hang in the open air to dry. If the curtains are green, use 
gall instead of soap. SUk trimmings must be removed, as they cannot be 
cleaned. 

Hard Soap. — Six pounds sal-soda, four i^ounds unslacked lime, twenty- 
four quarts rain-water. Put all on the fire, and boil, then set off and let 
settle. Drain oflf and put over the fire with six pounds clear grease, and 
one-half pound rosin. Boil until it begins to thicken, throw in a couple 
handfuls of salt. Let cool and cut. 

To Clean Tea and CoflPee Pots. — Discolored tea and coffee pots may 
be cleaned by filling them with water in which two or three tablespoonfula 
of wood ashes have been placed, and letting it boil up, then wash thoroughly 
with hot soapsuds, and rinse. 

Ink on Clothing. — To extract ink from cotton, silk, or woolen goods, 
dip the spots in spirits of turpentine, and let it remain for several hours; 
then rub thoroughly between the hands, and it will all disappear without 
changing either the color or texture of the fabric. 

Volatile Soap, for Removing Paint, Etc. — Four tablespoonfuls of 
spirits of hartshorn, lour tablespoonfuls of alcohol, and a tablespoontul of 
salt. Shake the whole well together in a bottle, and apply with a sponge or 
brush. 

To Clean Lamps. — Oil lamps sometimes bum dimly because of their 
becoming incrusted inside with the settling from the oil. Take soapsuds 
and fill the lamp about one-third full; then put in a little coarse sand and 
ehako vigorously. Every particle of the settling will soon be removed. 



.^28 I'BB BOUSEnOLD. 

To Clean Tlmvare. — An experienced housekeeper says the beet thing 
for cleaning tinware is common soda.- She gives the following direciious; 
Dampen a cloth and dip in soda and rub the ware briskly, after which wipe 
dry. Any blackened ware can be made to look as well as new. 

To Revive a. Slattross. — When mattresses get hard and bunchy, rip 
them, take the hair out, pull it thoroughly by hand, let it lie a day or two to 
air, wash the tick, lay it in as lightly and evenly as possible, and catch it 
down as before. Thus prepared they will be as good as new. 

Removing Iodine Stains. — To remove iodine stains from linen, dip the 
stained portion in cold water, and then hold over the tire until dry, re- 
peating the operation until the stain is removed. 

How to Give Finisli to Woolen Articles. — Hold the article over boil- 
ing water. When it is thoroughly dampened, fold in good shape and put 
under a Unen press. This process gives them a flat, even and smooth 
appearance. 

To Perfume Itinen. — Eose leaves, dried in the shade, or at about four 
feet from a stove, one pound; cloves, caraway seeds, and allspice, of each 
one ounce — pound in a mortar, Or grind in a mill; dried salt, a quarter of a 
pound; mix all together, and put into muslin bags. 

To Clean Gold. — Powder some whiting, and make it into a moist paste 
Tfith some sal-volatile. Cover over the gold ornaments and surface with a 
soft brush; let it dry, and then brush it ol3f with a moderately hard brush. 

To Restore tlie Color of Silks. — When the color of silks has been de- 
stroyed by any strong acid, it may be restored by carefully wetting the spot 
with a strong soap lather, to which a little saleratus has been added. When 
the color has been taken out by fruit stains ammonia will restore it. 

To Exterminate Cockroaches. — Borax is a very good cockroach exter- 
minator. Take some pieces of board, spread them over with molasses, only 
Bufficient to make the borax when sprinkled upon it stick, and place the 
boards in their haunts. 

To Clean Carpets.—Carpets may be cleaned without taking up by 
sprinkling them over with moist tea leaves and sweeping well. Then sprin- 
kle Fuller's earth very thickly over the grease spots, cover them with a 
sheet of brown paper and iron with a warm smoothing iron until the spots 
disappear. 

To Prevent Wooden Bowls from Cracking. — Either pour sweet, hot 
lard in them, or immerse in cold water, bring to the boiling point, boil an 
hour longer, then let the water cool gradually, when the bowl may be taken 
out. 

To Perfume Clothes. — Cloves, in coarse powder, one ounce; cassia, one 
ounce; lavender flowers, one ounce; lemon peel, one ounce. Mix and put 
them into little bags, and place them where the clothes are kept, or wrap 
the clothes around them. They will keep off insects. 

To Re-color Hair. — Get one yard of seal brown or black common cam- 
bric. Put inisold water and boil till the color is well out, then add the switch 
and boil slowly two lioura. Dry, and if not dark enough, repeat. 



BIHTTS AND HELPS. tSA 

To Clean a Chimney. — To clean a chimney, place a piece of zinc on 
the live coals in the stove. The vap6r produced by the zinc will carry ofl 
the soot by chemical decomposition. Those who have tried the process 
claim that it will work every time. 

To Remove a Scre^v Rusted in the "Wootl. — Heat a poker in the fire 
red-hot, and put it on the t'op of a screw for a minute or two; then take the 
screw-driver, and you will easily get it out, if you do it whilst it is warm. 

To Clean Articles Made of "White Zephyr. — Put in flour of magnesia, 
changing often, shake off the flour und hang in the open air a short time. 

Improvement in Chandeliers. — To renew a dusty and discolored 
chandelier, apply a mixture of bronze powder and copal varnish. The 
druggist where they are pui-chased will tell you in what proportion they 
should be mixed. 

Crust in Kettles. — This is formed by every sort of water except rain 
water. A simple mode of prevention is to place a large marble in the kettle, 
which, by attracting the mineral particles in the water, will keep the inside 
free. 

Jelly Molds. — Jelly molds should be greased with cold butter. When 
you wish to remove the jelly or pudding, plunge the mold into hot water, 
remove quickly, and the contents will come out in perfect form and without 
any trouble. 

To Clean Old liamp-Burners — ^Wash them in ashes and water, and 
they will come out bright as new. Many times a bui-ner is condemned be- 
cause the hght is poor, when, having clogged up with sediment, the wick is 
at fault. 

To Give a Stove a Fine Brilliant Appearance — A teaspoonful of 
pulverized alum mixed with stove polish will give the stove a fine lustre, 
which will be quite permanent. 

To Improve Beefsteak. — A tablespoonful of strong coffee put in the 
gravy of melted butter, pepper and salt to be poured over beefsteak, im- 
parts a delicious flavor to gravy and meat. It makes the gravy a rich brown. 

Care of a Coffee Pot. — A carelessly kept coffee pot ■will impart a rank 
flavor to the strongest infusion of the best Java. Wash the coffee pot thor- 
oughly every day, and tmce a week boil borax water ia it for fifteen 
minutes. 

To Remove Stains from Tableware. — A little saleratus rubbed on 
with the finger or a bit or linen, will remove stains from cups and other 
articles of tableware. It will also remove spots from marbleized oilcloths, 
and many stains from tin war>e. 

To Beat Eggs Q,uickly. — To beat the whites of eggs quickly put in a 
pinch of salt. The cooler the eggs the quicker they will froth. Salt cooia 
and also freshens them. 

Airing Feather Beds. —Never sun feather beds. Air them thoroughly 
on a windy day in a cool place. The sun draws the oil, and gives thi 
feathers a rancid emelL 



580 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

To Clean Diamonds.— To clean diamonds nicely, wash in soap-suds, 
rinse in alcohol, and dry in sawdust; then brush with a soft brush, and 
polish with flne tissue paper. 

fttra-»v Matting. — A thin coat of varnish applied to straw matting will 
make it much more durable and keep the matting looking fresh and new. 
White varnish should be used on white matting. 

To Stop Mouse-Holes. — Stop mouse-hoies with plugs of common hard 
Boap, and you will do it effectually. Eats, roaches and ants will not disre- 
gard it. 

To Take Riist Out of Steel. — Cover the steel with sweet oil, well 
rubbed in. In forty-eight hours rub with finely powdered, unslaked lime 
until the rust disappears. 

To Restore tlie Color of Black Kid Boots. — Take a small quantity ol 
good black ink, mix it with the white of an egg, and apply it to the boots 
with a soft sponge. 

Finger Marks on Mirrors. — ^For washing- finger marks from looking- 
glasses or windows, put a few drops of spirits of ammonia on a moist I'ag, 
and make quick work of removing them. 

To Keep Seeds From tlie Depredations of Mice. —Mix some pieces of 
camphor with them. Camphor placed in trunks or drawers will prevent 
mice from doing them injury. 

To Clean Zinc. — A good way to clean zinc is to rub it with a piece ot 
cotton cloth dipped in kerosene; afterward rub it with a dry cotton cloth, 
and it will be as bright as when new. 

To Imitate Ground Glass. — ^A ready way of imitating ground glass is 
by dissolving Epsom salts in ale (don't use this as a beverage) and applying 
with a brush; as it dries it crystallizes. 

For Rusty Stove Pipe.— Rub with linseed oil, a little goes a good way; 
build a slow fu-e at first till it dries. Oil iu the spring to prevent it from rusting. 

Finger Marks on a Piano._To remove finger-marks on a highly pol- 
ished piano, wipe with a cloth wet in pure cald water. It does not injure in 
the slightest if wiped dry, and restores the new look at once. 

To s-weeten Rancid Lard. — Heat the lard, and when melted slice 
three or four pared potatoes; continue heating until the slices (which 
should be quite thin) are well browned. 

To Improve Tin Kettles. — Kerosene will make tin kettles as bright as 
new. Saturate a woolen rag and rub with it. It will also remove stains 
from clean varnished furniture. 

To Wbiten Ivory. — Discolored ivory may be whitened by rubbing it 
with a paste composed of burnt pumice stone and water, and then place it 
under a glass in the sun. 

To Pack Canned Goods.— Pack canned fruits in saw-dust This ma- 
terial will certainly help to keej) the cans cool in summer and prevent freea- 
ing in winter, 



HINTS AND HELFS. 531 

Stoves and Fuel— A good range or cooking stove lightens a woman's 
work so much that every kitcheu should eoiitaiu one ; though the parlor be 
unfurcished or the house uupaiuted, have a safe, reliable stove with vvliicli 
to do the lamily cooking. I doubt if there is a man living who would bother 
with an implement as tiying as a burned-out, cracked, cooking stove that 
takes three times the fuel it should to heat tbe oven hot enough to bake. 
A cooking stove should be roomy ; it is a mistake to buy a small stove. A 
range with six lids, hirge oven, elevated warmiug-oven and other con- 
veniences is the joy of a housewife's heart. A stove (No. 9) with lour lids, 
revolving top, reservoir, will do. There are many good kinds made. Stoves 
and ranges should have large fireboxes. When wood is burned in winter, 
chunks and small logs can be burned therein at night ; if the drafts are 
properly regulated, the fire will keep until morning. 

Tlie casting should be heavy. The drafts, flues and chimney should be 
cleaned at least four times a year. Consult your insurance policy ; read 
carefully and fulfil all the conditions. See if your chimney is up to the 
standard, and that the stove is far enough from the wall. Know that no 
sparks can escape any place, especially where the pipe enters the chimney. 
It will pay. Have your fire safe ! Insurance money is hard enough to get 
when all the conditions have been justly complied with. It is terrible to 
burn out ! If your stove smokes, find out the reasou and stop it. We get 
old and ugly soon enough ; don't allow yourself to be smoked. 

Whatever kind ot fuel is used, insist upon it being good; if you burn 
wood, have at least half of it dry. Green wood can be burned someiimes, 
but never attempt to bake with it. Have a woodshed and see that it is filled. 
Peace is a long step in godliness, and it should be niaiutainod in the 
family, but disturb it temporarily, if need be, until enough wood is pro- 
vided to last at least six weeks. Some men say, " Oh ! anything will get 
burned if we bring it in." Any man who amounts to anvthing knows that 
women's work is harassing enough without tormenting her with green, wet 
wood. Whenever I see a large woodpile or, better still, a shed filled with 
finely split, dry wood, I know that man appreciates liis wife, and his posi- 
tion in his household. Nothing less than a saint can keep her temper and 
cook breakfast over a sulky, undecided fire, when the kitchen is blue with 
smoke, and the wood sings psalms and sheds tears When this is the case 
my friend, just cook accordingly ; if your other half likes pancakes white' 
dried and sad. just give him plenty, and do not reinforce them with viands 
prepared tlie day before. You can eat a lunch after the fire concludes to 
burn while " he" is feeding the calf. 

Soft coal makes a cheap and hot fire. It is dirty ; a filter attached to the 
cistern IS a necessity if soft coal is used. It is better than poor wood. 

Hard coal is excellent to cook on in winter if the stnve is made to burn 
it. Patience IS an important requisite when learning to make, keep and use 
a bard coal fire. It seems easy, and is, when one learns how ; one of the 
first t lings to learn is to leave it alone. " Never have the coal come nbove 
the stove-hmng. The fire will not be so bright, fuel will waste, because 
the draught is not so good. When not using the fire keep dampers closed • 
when needed, open the draughts. For cooking or baking, no matter how hot 
the fire desired, having the coal come nearlvto the top of the lining, the 
fire ought to last four hours without new coal or poking. The top of the 
stove may be red-hot, the coal piled up to the lids, and yet the oven will 
not bake. There is too much coal in and the draught is stopped by it." 
Uasoline is the best fuel for summer; but one must be careful wUeq 



532 THE IIOUSEHOLl). 

using it. One with a double burner for wash boiler and oven, and two 
single burners cost $16. Two and one-balf gallons of gasoline at a shilling 
per gallon will do the cooking, washing and ironing one week for a family 
of four. Then think of the comlort. A kerosene lamp-stove with one 
burner is very handy. A quart oi water can soon be boiled tn one — Good 
Housekeeping. 

Various Uses For Ammonia. — A little ammonia in tepid water will 
soften and cleanse the skin. 

Spirits of ammonia inhaled will often relieve a severe headache. 

Door plates should be cle;ined by rubbing with a cloth wet in ammonia 
and water. 

If tbe color has been taken out of silks by fruit staius, ammonia will 
usually restore the color. 

To brighten cai-pets wipe them with warm walei- in which has been 
poured a few di'ops of ammonia. 

One or two tablespooufuls ol ammonia added to a pail of water will clean 
windows better than soap. 

A few drops in a cupful of warm water, applied carefully, will remove 
spots from paintings and chromos. 

Wlien acid of any kind gets on clotbmg, spirits of ammonia will kill it. 
Apply chloroform to restore the color. 

Keep nickel, silver ornaments and mounts bright by rubbing with wool- 
en cloth saturated with ammonia. 

Grease spots may be taken out with weak ammonia in water ; lay soft 
white paper over and iron with a hot iron. 

Ammonia applied two or three times on a fresh cold-sore will kill it. 
It will drive it away if used wlien the cold-sore is first felt. 

A tal)le8poonful of ammonia in a gallon of warm water will often restore 
colors in carpets ; it will also remove whitewash stains from them. 

Yellow stains, left by sewing machine oil, on white, may be removed by 
rubbing the spot witli a cloth wet with ammonia before washing with soap. 

Equal parts af ammonia and turpentine will take paint out of clothing, 
even if it be hard and dry. Saturate the spot as often as neceesaiy, and 
wash out with soap suds. 

If those who perspire freely would use a little ammonia in the water 
they bathe in every day, it would keep their flesh sweet and clean, doing 
away with any disagreeable odor. 

Old brass may be cleaned to look like new by pouring strong ammonia 
on it and scrubbing with a scrub-brush ; rinse it in clear water. 

Put a teaspoonful of ammonia in a quart of watei-, wash your brushes and 
combs in this and all dirt and grease will disappear. Rinse, shake and dry 
in the sun, or by the fire. 

Flannels and blankets may be soaked in a pail of water containing a 
tablespoonful of ammonia and a little sud^. Rub as little as possible and 
they will be white and clean, and will not shrink. 

One teaspoonful of ammonia in teacupful of water will clean gold or 
silver jewelry ; a few drops of clear aqua ammonia poured on the under 
side of diamonds, will clean them immediately, making them very brilliant. 
— Good Bmisekeeping. 

Shaking Carpets— It is a much better plan, when it can be afforded, 
to have the carpets talcen away and cleaned by a carpet cleanser, who has 
the room and all the facilities for this kind of work, than to attempt it at 



MINTS AND HELPS. 533 

home, where the proper toola are wanting. To be sure, where there are 
many carpets to be cleansed it would be expensivu having tbem all done 
out, tlierefore it might be best to send the heaviest ones to tiie cleanser's, 
and the rest mij^ht bo dune at home. 

Wlien taking up the carpets, be sure that all the tacks have been removed 
from them for it isn't pleasant to have the point ot a rusty tack run into the 
hands and aside from the pain of such a wound it has also its dangerous 
side. Very often, as in the case of thick, heavy carpets, the tacks will not 
come out until the carpet is taken up, and then remain embedded in it, and 
it is this kind that ought to be carefully removed, as they are generally 
rusty. Take out tlie carpets into as large a space outside as you can ; an 
open field is the best. Place the woolen and cotton carpets across two 
strong lines, the wrong side out. Have two switches or rattans about as 
thick as those formerly used in schools, and with these beat the carpets free 
of all dust. It is always best to have two people beating at once, each one 
having a switch ; but if only one person is engaged in the work, when he 
cannot use a switch in each hand one will have to do it. Never use a straight 
stick, broom handle, or anything that will not bend to beat a carpet, for if 
the carpet is old, it will soon wear a hole through it. 

When it has been thoroughly beat"n, remove from the line and shake 
well ; then, if convenient, lay it right side up on the grass and give it a good 
sweeping. Where grass is not to be found, it may be taken in after shak- 
ing, and when down be given a good sweeping. 

Brussels, tapestries and any of the heavy grades of carpeting cannot be 
done properly on a line, but ought to be spread out on the grass right side 
up and thoroughly switched, then with a stiff broom swept until all the 
dust is removed. Beating tin se carpets on the wrong side will have very 
little effect, and to cleanse them thoroug)dy they must always be switched 
on the right. 

Wlien putting down the carpets, change them about so the wear does not 
all come in a few places. Stair carpet may be made to last for a much 
longer time than ordinarily if it is changed about each spring, also 
if the edges of the st.iirs are heavily padded each time, as it is in these 
places it wears out quicker than anywhere else. Put plenty of salt around 
the edges of the carpets before putting down, to prevent the ravages of 
moths. When the carpets are fitted to the rooms and tacked in place, take 
out all grease spots by rubbing with a flamiel wet in ammonia water, 
afterward when removed rubbing the spot with a clean clotli until nearly 
dry. Some spots, being obstinate, will require more ammonia than others, 
also moi e rubbing. 

Bed^ and Bed Slaking. — Not many years ago no girl thought she 
was ready to be married until she had one or two large, fluffy feather beds ; 
now we seldom see one unless it be on grandma's bed, who, having slept 
on feathers all her life, cannot think of giving them up now. If a feather 
bed is used, it is a good plan to have a slip cover for it, which can be taken off 
when soiled and replaced by a clean one. These slip covers are also nice 
for a mattress. 

It seems to me that the ideal bed is any one of si^veral kinds of good spring 
beds, with a good hair mattress ; over the mattress a thick, white blanket 
and then the sheets, with blankets enough for warmth. The outside cover- 
ing for the bed may be anything that suits the taste of tlie occupant, but I 
confess to being old-fashioned enough to prefer a white spread to any 
other, . . . / ^ , 



534 THE nOXISEHOLD. 

The nao of sheets is to keep the bod and otlicr bed-clothes clean, and 
the mider sheet should always be put ou with the wrong side down and 
tucked in all around the mattress, then put ou the other sheet with the 
wrong side up, so ihe two right sides will come together. Let the upper 
sheet come just to the headboard of the bud and leave the extra length to 
tuclc in at the foot. Put ou the blanliets and spread so they will come 
about six iuches from the head, and turn the top sheet over them, tuck all 
in well at the foot and sides, and tlie lied Is ready for the nillows. If one is 
always careful to put the sheets on with he right sides together, the clean 
sides will always come next the other bedding. • This is one of the first 
tilings to teach little girls about bed making. 

It used to be the rule in every well-ordered household that all the beds 
should be made very soon after they were vacated in the morning. When 
we think that all night long exhalations are passing off from the bodies of 
the sleepei'S and br-iug absorbed by the bed-clothes, we can see how neces- 
sary it is to have the beds well aired and, if possible, exposed to the purify- 
ing influence of sunshine before tliey are made un. Every member of the 
family should be taught to set a chair at the foot of the bed, turn the 
clothes down over it, lay the pillows on another chair and open the windows 
of their rooms before they leave it in the morning. At least two hours should 
be allowcil for the bed to air before it is made. 

Ho-»v to Disinfect. — Clothing which requires disinfecting should be 
submiited for about three hours to a temperature of 250 deg. in a chamber 
charged with sulphuric fumes from a large quantity of sulphur. The cham- 
ber should be so constructed as to prevent the fumes from passing off. No 
germs can stand this. 

After a room has been used by .a person sick witlt any contagious dis- 
ease, it becomes necessary to disinfect it before it iS fit to be -used again. 
This is done by removing and burning the paper on ihe walls, removing 
the bedsteads and other furniture, and exposing them to air and wind, and 
giving them a fresh coat of varnish ; by having' the mattress made over 
new and the hair boiled ; by bn ruing in the room three pounds ot sulplmr, 
and by whitewashing, painting and papering the room anew. 

Now that it is generally conceded that consumption is caused by germs 
wliich multiply in the lungs, a method of disinfecting them, which ^hall bo 
harmless, has been sought for, but as yet without avail. Tlie vapor of creo- 
sote, the oil of the eucalyptus and carbolic acid have been tried, and, to 
some extent, they may paralyze or stun the germs and prevent their mpid 
increase ; but as the passages of tlie lungs are delicate, and the vapor can- 
not be brought very near to tliem without injury, the good effec's are slight. 
But there is one method which cannot fail to prove beneficial, and that is 
the inhalation of large quantities of fresh, pure air. This is worth more, 
than any disinfectant for the lungs, and can do no harm. 

Items on House-work.— Good housekeeping consists in continual care 
for small things, which in themselves are nothing, but in the total make up the 
comfort of home life. It is a simple matter to see that all the house stores are 
kept on hand, that each match-box about the premises is filled, tha,t every 
room has a convenient receptacle for matches and one for burned matches. 
Yet the neglect of so trifling a matter may cause some one, hunting in the 
dark for a match, an enormous amount of annoyance, A good supjily of 
nice brown papers laid away carefully, and a bag or box containing differ- 
ent kinds of twine, cost a housekeeper nothing, as they may be saved from 



HINTS AND HELPS. 535 

parcels ; yp<i such a habit will tiud ready appreciation when some one is in 
need of paper and string to tie up a parcel. There is nothing so unsightly 
as an old newspaper for such a purpose. There are so many good -av that 
old newspapers can be put to, that brown paper should be always kept ou 
hand to wrap up parcels. There is nothing better than old newspapers 
under a carpet to soften the tread and keep the hard floor from wearing 
out the carpet. There seems to be some ingredient in the printer's ink Jaat 
drives away moths, and for that reason newspapers are better than any- 
tliing else to wrap up furs aud woolens during the rjummer. They should 
never be destroyed after Ihey are read unless used for kindling, but should 
be kept in a straight pile. It is a wise precaution to keep a role of old linen, 
one of old" cotton and needles and thread in the kitchen drawer, where it can 
be readily found in case of a bura or cut. A step-ladder ou hand to reach to 
higli places saves a great deal of trouble. A step-ladder table, which may 
be covered when not in use, or a wooden-seated chair, should be ou every 
floor except the kiichen floor, where the ceilings are usually so low that any 
high place can be reached by standing on the kitchen chaii's, which are 
always, or should be, made with wooden seats that may be scrubbed and 
washed. All these matters are small, but a series of petty vexations are 
more luible to irritate the temper than genuine trials. 

Ho>v to be Iinlepeinlent—To save is absolutely the only way to 
amass a solid fortune, aud if the wives of poor men would only realize this 
fact, it would be much the best for them. People who start in the world 
without meaufl must either be content with poverty all through life, or be 
willing to deny themselves many things, and save, to lay the basis of in- ■ 
dependence in the future ; there is no other certain mode. Yet we will 
hear many women, who indulge in dress, entertaining and other luxuries 
far, far beyond their means, bemoan their minfortune in being poor. For- 
tunes do not come, as many suppose, by chance, and we make no more 
fatal mistake than in thinking we are mere creatures of fate. Every one 
may make or mar his or her life, whichever they may choose. Fortune is 
for those who, by diligence, honesty and frugality place themselves in a 
position to grasp the boon. If liousekeepers would only study tlie art of 
being saving in little things, such as may each in itself seem insignificant, 
but when put together amount to a great deal, it would contribute vastly to 
their prosperity. 

Then, to learn to cuitail all unnecessary wants, as well as to spend 
money always wisely and economically, much suffering in old age would be 
avoided, and many more comfortable fortunes amassed. The best evidence 
of frugality is a yearly deposit— let it be ever so small— in a savings bank, 
aud the way to reach this good fortune is for women to be frugal, diligent 
and industrious, giving such an example to husband and children as will 
lead them to join in the strife for independence. 

Making Tea—There is something intellectual associated with the tea- 
driuker-S-a pleasant gossiping sort of intellectuality. In spite of all the 
lectures which have been read against it bv those who make their living by 
reforming tJie human race, tea is without donbt a great blessing of modein 
living, restoring the tired workers and refreshing the neiwes without excit- 
ing to • unnatural or strained ex'-rtions, like other stimulants. If we were 
to follow all the wliinis of the numberless,, would-be hyajienic reformers, 
who have arisen in these days to condemn every good tiling the Lord has 
given us, we should be reduced to a diet of bran and cold water. Exces- 



53G THE HOUSEHOLV. 

sively strong tea is to be avoided, not only because it is not wholesome, but 
because, like all unwholesome things to a healthful palate, it is not good or 
pleasant.. In Russia, where the best tea in the world is made, it is never 
strong. It is made in five minutes' time, and with water which has boiled 
but a moment before. It is left to draw the space of four or five minutes, 
and drank at once. It is a barbarism to boil any kind of tea. The best 
grocery stores usually keep Oolong, English Breakfast, Hyson, Young 
Hyson, Gunpowder, uucolored Japan and Formosa. Tlie Formosa is one 
of the finest teas in market. Young Hyson, or green tea, is seldom used 
alone, as it formerly was, but it has been generally superseded, of late years, 
by Japan tea. Oolong is seldom used alone, but it frequently is sold in 
mixed teas with equal parts of Young Hyson or uucolored Japan. English 
Breakfast tea, as its name indicates, is a morning tea, never served by 
punctilious drinkers of tea after cue o'clock. 

Ho-w to Coolt a Steak. — Now, if you only knew how to cook a steak 
to make it good, that would do, but it always makes me sick to see a woman 
cook a steak. She invariably puts her frying-pan on the stove, and puts in 
a chunk of grease about as big as my fist ; and when it is hot enougli to 
begin to crackle, she puts in her beef, and never thinks of covering it. The 
smoke and steam from it goes to the very ceiling. After she cooks it in this 
way until it begins to look like an old, rubber shoe sole, she calls it done. 
When you go to eat it there is no more taste in it than a chip. Now, if you 
want a good bit of steak, have a clear, hot tire, set your clean, empty pan 
on a spot, cover it up, then pound your steak, and when your pan is very 
hot lay in your steak, and cover quickly. As soon as it has crisped enough 
to let go its hold on the pan, tury over and cover quickly ; turn again as at 
first, and continue to do so about every two minutes until you have turned 
it about sis or eight times. Have a hot, buttered dish ready for it and lay 
it in ; add a sprinkling of pepper, salt and sugar, and cover tightly. Now, 
if you wish a gravy, put a bit of butter in your pan. When hot, rub in a 
pinch of flour, add a small teacupful of boiling water, let it boil a few 
minutes, then put in a gravy-l)oat instead of putting it over your beef, to 
draw out the juice. Now try this plan just once, and you will see you 
women know nothing about cooking a good steak. 

Medicine in "Vegetaljles. — The following information may be useful, 
to some, if not to many : 

Spinach has a direct effect upon the kidneys. 

The common dandelion, used as greens, is excellent for the same 
trouble. 

Asparagus purges the blood. Celery acts admirably upon the nervous 
system, and is a cure for rheumatism and neuralgia. 

Tomatoes act upon the liver. 

Beets and turnips are excellent appetizers. 

Lettuce and cucumbers are cooling in their effects upon the system. 

Onions, garlic, leeks, olives and shalots, all of which are similar, pos- 
sess medicinal virtues of a marked character, stimulating the circulatory 
system and the consequent increase of the saliva and the gastric juice, 
promoting digestion. 

Red onions are an excellent diuretic, and the white ones are recom- 
mended to be eaten raw as a remedy for insomnia. They are a tonic and 
nutritious. 



HINTS AND HELPS. 537 

A soup made from ouious is regarded by the French as an excellent res- 
torative iu debility of the digestive organs. 

Novel Uses for Old Papers. — Most housekeepers know how invaluable 
newspapers are for packing away the winter clothing, the printing-ink act- 
in" as a detiance to the stoutest moth as successfully as camphor or tar- 
paper. For this reason newspapers are invaluable under the carpet, laid 
over the regular carpet-paper. The most valuable quality of newspapers 
in the kitclien, however, is their ability to keep out the air. It is well 
known that ice completely enveloped in newspapers, so that all air is sliut 
out, will keep a longer time than under other conditions, and that a pitcher 
of ice-water laid iu a newspaper, with the ends of the piper twisted to- 
gether to exckide the air, will remain all night in any summer room with 
scarcely any perceptible melting of the ice. Tliese facts should be utilized 
ofteiier than they are in the care of the sick at night. In freezing ice-cream, 
when the ice is scarce, pack the freezer only three-quarters full of ice and 
aalt, and finish with newspapers, and the difference in the time of freezing 
and quality of the cream is not perceptible from the result where the freezer 
is packed full of ice. After removing the dasher, it is better to cork up the 
cream and cover it tightly with a packing of newspapers than to use more 
ice. The newspaper retains the cold already in the ice better than a pack- 
ing of cracked ice and salt, which must have crevices to admit the air. 

Care of Hardwood Floors.— " There are very few persons," said a 
hardwood dealer, " who understand how to take care of wood flooi's. I hear 
complaints continually that hardwood floors crack and break off in slivers, 
and thus soon become rough. Such floors have been washed up or 
scrubbed with strong alkali soaps or washing fluids, which will ruin a floor 
of oak iu a short time. A hardwood floor should be swept up and polished 
at least once a week with an iron-backed polishing l)rush. By this process 
in a short time the floor will have attained a beautiful glassy surface, from 
which any dust can be easily removed with a hair broom or one of the 
pretty Japanese brooms with bamboo handles." 

The polishing brush is an important article in any house where there are 
hardwood floors. It is very heavy and is drawn backward and forward by 
means of a long handle. Such brushes cost $5 and $6, but wear a lifetime. 
The largest size is too heavy for a woman's use. If an egg or any such sub- 
stance drops on the kitchen floor, the spot should be washed up and oiled 
with raw oil, and avoided for a few days until the oil has become oxidized. 
When a floor i^ waxed this polishing brush becomes a necessity, as no 
hand rubbing is heavy enough to take its place. 

To Destroy Motlis—Eeamur, more than 150 years ago, made quite 
extensive researches on clothes-moths ; and, observing that they never 
attacked the wool and hair on living animals, he inferred that the natural 
odor of wool, or of the oily matter in it, was distasteful to them. He there- 
fore rubbed various garments with the water in which the wool had been 
washed, and found that they were never attacked by moths. He also ex- 
perimented with tobacco smoke and the odors of spirits of turpentine, and 
found that both of these were destructive to the moths ; but it was neces- 
sary to close the rooms very tightly and keep the fumes vei-y dense in them 
for twenty-four hours to obtain satisfactory results. 

Mr. C. H. Fernald, of the Massachusetts agricultural college, has always 
found that any matei'ial siabject to the attacks of moth may be preserved 



538 THE HOUSEHOLD. 

from tbcm if packed away with sprigs of cedar between the folds. Tlie 
odor of oedar is so disagreeable to'iheni that they will not deposit their 
eggs where tins subHtauce is preseut iu full streugtii. Cliests of cedar, or 
closets tinished iu the same wood, will protect clothiug from moths as lou"' 
as the odor is strong; but tliis is lost with age, aud then they ai'e no pro- 
tection. It. must be remembered that the odor of cedar, camphor, etc. 
only prevents the moth from laying her eggs on the fabrics, biit if the eggs 
are laid before the garments are packed away with cedar, etc., the odor will 
not prevent the hatching of the eggs nor the destructive work of the larvae 
afterward. Clothing may also be protected from moths by packing it in 
bags made of either stout paper or cotton cloth, if made perfectly tight, but 
this must be done before the moths appear on the wing iu the spring season. 

Crystallizing Fruit. — Though no authority on'crystalliz'ng fruit, i.e., 
professionally, there is a simple process for home crystallizing, which I 
know of. The fruit is dried first. For this the finest fruit is selected. It 
must be very ripe, then thoroughly dried, and after this " sweated." Tlien 
it is dipped in the very heaviest syrup one can make, say that used for 
candied fruit, which is a gill of water to a pound of sugar. I can give no 
exact rule for time of dipping, two or three minutes in the hot syrup. Then 
the fruit is dried again. This process makes a delicious article, and lor 
this reason. The dried fruit, without sugar, retains all the fruity flavor, 
and the dipping process after the drying does not penetrate the fruit so as 
to destroy that fine, natural flavor, but merely adds to it the taste of the 
sugar ci-ystals which are formed on the surface. It is unnecessary to say 
that the very best granulated sugar should be used. I might add that some 
confound crystallized fruit with sweetmeats or candied fruit. As I under- 
stand the matter, the difference between tbem is this : for the former the. 
fruit is dipped in the syrup after being dried, not cooked iu it ; while for 
the latter the fruit is cook d, slowly and carefully, in the heavy syrup, and 
then dried. — Good Housekeeping. 

Roast Turkey, Goose or Duflc. — To cook a turkey, goose or duck so 
that it shall be " a tiling of beauty aud a joy" — as long as it lasts — requires 
culinary skill, and any one who is at all doubtful about the process should 
follow the recipe of some good authority. Here are Miss Corson's direc- 
tions: Lay it in- a pan with a slice of salt pork under and another over it, 
unless it is very fat, in which case it will yield sufficient dripping for bast- 
ing ; brown it quicidy, but do not burn it ; then season it with pepper, salt, 
and whatever sweet herb has been used in flavoring the stuffing, aud baste 
it while it cooks with the drippings in the pan ; if the oven is of the proper 
temperature, not too hot, no water will be required for basting, aud if only 
the drippings ai-e used for this purpose the full flavor of the bird will be 
preserved. If a " frothed " surface is desired, occasionally dust the bird 
with flour from the dredging box while basting it. To make tlie gravy, 
have the meat from the giblets chopped fine, and the broth in which they 
were boiled hot when the bird is cooked ; remove it from the dripping pan 
and keep it hot ; if there is more than about h If a cup of dripping in the 
pan pour it out, and keep it for frying potatoes in ; pour into the pan two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and stir over the fire until it is brown, and then add 
the chopped giblets .^nd enough of t'leir broth or of boiling water to make 
a good gravy, and season it palat bly. Al)out fifteen minutes to a pound 
is generally allowed for baking poultry. 



HINTS AND HELPS. 539 

Clilinneya and Soot. — There i8 nothing more vexatious than a stove 
which doea not perform its duties, yet there is no more certain test of an 
incapable servant or housekeeper than continual complaint of the stove. 
Thei-e are very few poor stoves. All first-class iron-moulders make good 
kitchen stoves, which only require to he set right, kept clean and treated 
intelligently to cook well. It is not at all an uncommon thing to find the 
principal dampers of a stovo in regular use sealed up witli soot and ashes, 
and the fines of tlie oven overflowing ; and yet the mistress of the house is 
wondering why the stove smokes or why the oven does not hake on the 
bottom. Even when every damper in the stove is in order and the oven 
fines are clean, the flue of the chimiiey may be so choked with soot that 
the stove cannot get a breath of fresh air. A chimney in steady use in the 
kitchen ought to be cleaned at least once every two or three years to insure 
draft. Slime chimneys may draw well for years without cleaning, but they 
are exceptional. If the kitclien fire does not come up clear and bright in 
half or three-quarters of an hour after it is started, there is something 
radically wrong about the drafts. As often as cmce a month all the oven 
fines should be cleansed. This is not a i>leasant task, but it is necessary. 

To Beat an Egg. — Any child knows how to beat an egg, which is true 
so tar as that any ouo by dint of patience and a fork can beat an egg to a 
froth, but one person will take fifteen minutes and have it less light than 
another in five. The one will beat fast, carrying the fork back and forth, 
but entangling very little air ; the other will lift the egg, as it were, with 
each beat and throw it over ihe fork. This is tlie proper way and does the 
work in half the time. Acquire the liabit of beating eggs, or anything else, 
from the elbow, not using the whole arm ; the fatigue will be much lessened. 
The use of egg-beaters has made egg-beating for cakes, such a formidable 
ta.8k ill our mother's days, a very light one in ours, hut for beating just one 
egg a fork, even now, is often most convenient. Even with a beater, how- 
ever, the best results are obtained by observing certain rules. In hot 
weather leave the eggs in ice-water or on ice, because they then become so 
thoroughly chilled that in boiling them you cannot estimate the time re- 
quired, and should they become frosted they ai-e inferior for all purposes. 
In beating the wliites of eggs a tiny pinch of salt will tend to facilitate the 
work. — Good Housekeeping. 

Cleaning Finely-Polislied Glass. _Tlie finest kinds of glass, includ- 
ing plate for windows, as well as that used for tableware, iire comparatively 
soft ;ind easily scratched ; and, according to The Decorator and Furnisher, 
French mirrows and other highly polished surfaces are often dimmed and 
scratched by the use of harsh cloths and newspapers in combination with 
polishing and cleaning powders and soaps especially recommended for 
glass cleaning.- Both potash and soda attack glass, and are capable of re- 
moving or greatly injuring the polish. Even common soap and water dim 
the surface perceptibly after frequent applications. 

For windows, mirrors, glassware and poli^^hed glass generally, it is best 
not to use soap for ch-aning, and to employ only the softest and finest of 
cloths. Polishing powder, polishing soaps— and, in fact, anythmg harder 
than prepared chalk— should not be tolerated. For fine glassware, mir- 
rors, etc., al'^ohol and water is probably the most convenient and safest 
liquid that can be used. No polishing powdcn- to he found in the market 
IS fine enough to improve or preserve the polish of the liettcr kinds of glass. 
In some cases a little acetic acid or lemori juice may bo added with ad- 



540 fllE no USE no LI). 

vautage. Upon wiudows whiting or prepared challc la frequently recom- 
meudecl, but the polish obtained iu this way is inferior to that given in 
manufacture. 

Various AVays of CooUing Onions—There are not many ways of 
preparing onions, and perhaps there are none superior to "plain boiled." 
If the water be changed once or twice while cooking, they will be more 
delicate, and they must be thoroughly tender all through. Drain all water 
from tiiem, ;ind season with salt, pepper and plenty of sweet butter. As a 
change, a cream sauce may be poured over them jr.st before serving, but 
one would tire of this method if repeated too oneu. After being boiled 
until tender, they may be \mt in a buttered baking Jish, sprinkled witli 
pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of butter iu the center of each onion, covered 
with bread crumbs, and baked slowly one hour. They may then be served 
pliiin or with cream sauce. The large Spanish onions are particularly nice 
for slicing raw, and if served with a little oil and vinegar, make a good 
salad. Onions are an indispensable seasoning for most soups, and in 
many cases if they are sliced and fried brown in butter, before adding them 
to the souj) stock, the flavor is greatly improved. A potato salad woi;ld be 
very tame indeed without a Hlight flavor, and there is no doubt that in time 
this valuable vegetable, so rich in nitrogenous food, will take a higher rank 
than is at present accorded it, upon our tables. But, one word of advice, 
don't fry it. 

Celery Variously Served. —Crisp, white celery is always delicious ; 
eaten simply with salt it, perhaps, pleases the true celery lover best. The 
prettiest way to serve it is iu the low, shallow trays or dishes of glass, 
some of them beautifully mounted iu silver, that are now provided. Who 
has not mentally anathematized the old fashioned tall celeiy glass, from 
which it is almost impossible to i-emove one stalk without dragging two or 
three more out upon the spotless damask? The tall glass should be rele- 
gated to a dark corner of the china closet. 

Uncocked celery salad is also delightful, and few people would think of 
using fine celery other than in the two ways mentioned. But when celery 
is not of the best qualiiy, perhaps a little tough and poorly bleached, then 
comes the cook's opportunity to make a new and excellent dish by pre- 
paring it the same as asparagus, like which it may be eaten hot or served 
as a cold salad with sauce. 

To Render a Cellar Dry. — A problem which the builder, owner and 
architect has to deal with every day is to render a cellar dry. This may be 
done in a variety of ways, which will depend ui)on the circumstances sur- 
rounding the case. One of the most effective means of keeping a cellar 
dry is to build an area wall around the whole of the site, so that earth does 
not rest directly against the walls of the house. To form such area a four- 
inch wall is built parallel to the main walls, and about two inches from 
them. Tiie bottom of the enclosed space is formed into a gutter, so that 
any water that finds its way through the outer casing may have an oppor- 
tunity of running away to the drains. The top of the cavity is usually 
covered in just above the ground line with a row of ornamental bricks, or 
sometimes with bricks laid on edge. When these means are adopted it is 
desirable that openings in the main wall should be provided for ventila- 
tion. 



HINTS AND HELPS. 541 

Cleaning AVindows._Two servants living in adjoining houses were 
talking recently, says an exchange, about their methods of cleaning win- 
dows. The one whose windows always looked the brightest said she 
selected a dull day lor the work, or a day when the sun was uot shiniug on 
them, because when the sun shines it causes them to bo dry-streaked, no 
matter how much one rubs. The painter's brush is the best article for this 
purpose, then wash all the woodwork before the glass is touched. To 
cleanse the glass, simply use warm water diluted with ammonia ; don't use 
soap. A small stick will get tlio dust out of the cornel's ; then wipe dry 
with a piece of cloth ; do not use linen, as the liut sticks to the glass. Tlie 
best way to polish is with tissue paper or newspaper. To clean windows 
in this way takes much less time than when soap is used. 

A Convenient Pantry — A house that lacks that great convenience, 
a butler's pantry connecting with the dining-room, may find a very con- 
venient substitute for one in a tall screen placed near tlie kitchen door. If 
of strong material, the screen may have a shelf fastened to the inner side, 
on which may be placed the dessert and fruit plates until ready for use. A 
small table behind the sci'eeu may hold other necessary articles, like a pan 
of hot water and towels to supply clean forks and spoons to the table, or to 
hold delicate tableware that cannot safely be washed in the kitchen. Such 
a pantry may easily be constructed by the hoi;se carpenter. A well-made 
pair of clothes frames, covered with marbleized oilcloth on one side, and 
Canton flannel or cretonne on the side to be exposed to the room, could be 
used for a screen. 

Bugs, Mildew, Stains. — Cockroaches and water-bugs can be destroyed 
with a mixture of chloride of lime and sweetened water, or with pulverized 
borax scattered freely wherever the insects appear. 

To remove mildew, make a carefully strained solution of a quart of 
water and a heaping teaspoonful of chloride of lime. Keep dipping the 
mildewed article into the solution until the spots disappear ; then rinse 
thoroughly in clear water. 

Tea stains can be removed by pouring boiling water through the fabric. 

Mosquitoes may be kept away by sponging the body with a diluted ex- 
tract of pennyroyal, which also allays the pain of their bites. 

To Clean Glass and Paint. — To make more easy the cleaning of 
windows and paiut, get a large sponge, such as is used to wash carriages, 
and a chamois skin, and go to work. Use lukewarm water. Wash off the 
windows, glass and frames thoroughly with the sponge, then witli the skin 
wipe them off, and no rubbing will be required. Proceed the same with 
the painted work above the house, and you who try it will fiud your paiut 
and windows never looked so well before. Wring the chamois as di-y as 
you can eacli time you use it. One advantage of this method over the old 
way of cleaning is that no lint is left on paint or windows. A handy thing 
to have for the window corners is a tooth brush to take dust or dirt out. If 
the paint has been white and turned yellow take a little soda on the sponge 
and rub over it, washing off with clean water, and you will be surprised to 
see how much better it will look. Or if the window sill has any grease 
spots on it spread the soda thickly over them, then scrub with soap and 
water. 

Canning Fresh Beef._"Wc take all the rough pieces that we do not 
want fresh nor to corn. If very fat, remove the most of it. Boil very terj- 



5i2 Tim II0U8EU0LD. 

der, salt and roaat same as for the table ; take from the kettle, remove al\ 
the boue aud griatle, pick or cut in convenient pieces to go into the cans ; 
then put into a pan, season and set over a kettle of boiling water, cover 
tight. When hot as you can get it, commence filling a can, and press 
thoroughly witli a stick made like a potato masher, as you fill it, having 
liquor enough to expel all the air. Fill and seal, using sell-sealing cans ; 
if they are perfect there will be no trouble about keeping. All that have 
used it pronounce it a success. It can be eaten cold or warmed, or in meat 
pie. Any sized cans may be used. 

To Clear "Water Pipes. — A retired plumber thus gives a point for the 
gratuitous relief of householders : " Just before retiring at night pour into 
the clogged pipe enough liquid soda lye to fill the 'trap' or bent part of 
the pipe. Be sure no water runs iu it uniil the next morning. During the 
night the lye will convert all the offal int<j soft soap, and the first current of 
water iu the morning will wash it away and clear the pipe clean as new." 

Caring for Soiled Clothes—Have large, strong bags to put the 
dirty clothes iu'as you take them off. The bans should be of substantial 
brown linen or ticking, with a string of strong tape sowed to the side-seam, 
a little below the hem at the top. If the clothes are left lying loose in the 
bottom of the closet they may h^i injured by mice or cockroaches. 

How to Keep Honey. —All surplus should be removed from hives at 
close of honey season ; if left it will soon become dark and have a solid 
appearance, and bees cannot pi'otect a large surplus so well, and, unless 
the hives are very close, robbers will find their way to the honey. Cbmb- 
honey should be carefully stored in a closed building, so that bees cannot 
find it ; not in cellars or underground repositories of any kind, but above 
ground, and have plenty of light and air, aud at the same time prevent 
bees from entering. Comb-honey can be kept free from ants and other 
insects by placing it on tables, the feet of which may be set in basins of 
water and kerosene. Ants are very destructive to comb-honey ; they 
puncture the cappings and destroy its appearance. Extracted honey should 
not, as yet, be kept in air-tight vessels, as it is still iu process of ripening, 
aud if the gas that is produced cannot escape, it will burst the packages ; 
hence they should have a small opening at least. Extracted honey may be 
kept together in any quantity if preity well ripened ; if not, it slioul'd be in 
small quantities. Earthenware and tin are probably best for keeping ex- 
tracted honey in, although kegs and barrels can be used, but should first 
receive a coating of beeswax iuside. This can easily be done by poui-ing 
iu molted beeswax and running it over the surface. 

To Scald Milk Properly. — It is recommended that the milk siipply 
of cities, at least iu hot weather, be scalded as soon as received by the con- 
sumers, to prevent its souring. To scald milk properly, the following 
method is advised : Take a tliin glass bottle provided with a rubber cork, 
fill it with milk nearly up to the neck, and place it uncorked iu a kettle of 
water, which should then be gradually brought to a boil. When steam has 
commenced to escape from the bottle, cork it lightly, and continue the 
boiling from thirty-five to forty minutes, aud the process will be complete. 
A bottle of milk thus prepared, it is said, will remain sweet a month if kept 
in a cool place and tightly corked. 

■Whitening Ivory-liandled Knives— To restore the whiteness to 
ivory-handled knives, wash with soaped flannel and lukewarm water ; then 



HINTS AND HELPS. 543 

wipe very dry. Soak them occasionally in alum water that has been allowed 
to cool Let the handles lie for au hour in this, and then I'emove them and 
brush well— say with a nail brush. After this, take a clean linen towel, dip 
it in cold water, squeeze it out, and while wet, wrap it around the handles, 
leaving them in it to dry gradually, as, if dried too rapidly out of the alum 
water, they will be injured. 

Fire Extinguislier. — Take twenty pounds of common salt and ten 
pounds of sal ammoniac, and dissolve in seven gallons of water. When 
dissolved it can be bottled, and kept in each room in the house, to be used 
in au emergency. In case of firo occurring, one or two bottles should bo 
immediately thrown with force into the burning place so as to break them, 
and the fire will certainly be extinguished. 

Regarding Canned Goods—Marion Harlaud advises those who use 
what grocers catalogue as canned goods to always open the cans some 
hours before cooking the contents and empty into an open bowl, set in a 
cool place. This removes the close, airless, smoky taste. Drain the liquor 
from peas and beans, cover with fresh, cold water, and let them soak for two 
hours. It freshens them wonderfully. 

Tilings to Remember. — To prevent oilcloth, patent leather and simi- 
lar materials from sticking together when rolled, purchase a few sheets of 
paraffine-impregnated or otherwise prepared paper, and roll the material. 
This will prevent sticking. It will also prevent the fading cf the colors or 
gloss by keeping out air and moisture ; the evaporation of the oil is like- 
wise prevented to a great extent. 

Lemon juice squeezed upon your spots of iron rust, with salt plentifully 
sprinkled over it, will probably remove all traces of the unsightly spots on 
your white dress. But if you would cover the nails in your closet with 
little muslin b.igs, or pieces of glove kid (old glove-fiugers are as good as 
anything), you will probably never again experience this difficulty. 

Soft water should he used in cooking vegetables, and the only way city 
folks can soiten water is to add a little salt to it. Six or eight potatoes will 
need a teaspoonful of salt added to the water ; turnips and parsnips require 
about the same, that is, a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water. If any 
scum should happen to rise to the surface when the vegetables are boiling, 
it must be carefully skimmed off. 

Bore a hole iin-ough the top of a broom-handle, tie a string in it, hang 
the broom up when not in use, and it will last twice as long as when al- 
lowed to rest upon the floor. After sweeping dip your broom in hot soap- 
suds, shake well and hang up to dry. 

Here are two things to remember when cooking either veal or pork : they 
should be cooked so thoroughly that the lean part will be white and firm, 
and tliey should never be boiled unless first well salted. With pork there 
should be served some kind of farinaceous vegetable, like rice, potatoes or 
hominy. 

When we wish to extract juices from anything we put it in cold water, 
and let it gradually reach the boiling point ; so when we wish the viands 
to retain their juices, and use the water only as a medium for cooking them, 
the opposite course must be pursued. 

One may utilize old matting which is no longer fresh enough to look 
well, by putting it under carpets. It can be cleaned perfectly by washing 
it on both sides with hot salt water ; hang it on a line outdoors to dry. 

Jewelry of all kinds can be beautifully cleaned by washing in soap suds, 



5M THE HOUSEHOLD. 

in which a few drops of spirits of animouia are stirred, shaking oflf the 
water aud laj'iug in a box of dry sawdust to dry. As simple as this sounds. 
it is the nicest way to cleanse plus, chains, or any jewelry, as it leaves no 
marks or scratches. 

To take grease out of white marble apply a pile of whiting or Fullei-'s 
earth saturated with benzine, and allow it to stand some time. Or apply a 
mixture of two parts washing soda, one part ground pumice stone and one 
part chalk, all first finely powdered and made into a paste with water ; rub 
well over the marble, and finally wash ofi" with soap and water. 

A good polish for enameled leather is milk and linseed oil, in the pro- 
]iortion of two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter. Make each 
1 ikewarm and mix ; remove the dust, then apply the mixture with a 
sponge. Kub this off, and continue to rub until a polish appears. 

Tin vessels rust and nre often worthless in a few weeks because after 
washing they are not set on the stove for a moment or in the sun to dry 
thoroughly before they are put away. 

A teaspooiiful of powdered borax thrown into the bath tub while bathing 
will communicate a velvety softness to the water, and at the same time in- 
vigorate and rest the bather. 

To get rid of roaches, take, say, two tablespoonfuls of borax and dis- 
solve it in one pint of water. With this water make a stiff dough of corn 
meal. Do not cook. Put it where the roaches can get it. Put it out at 
night and next morning you can sweep up all the roaohes you want. It is 
the only remedy that never fails. Two or three applications are generally 
sufficient. 

Little red ants cannot travel over wool or rag carpet. Cover the floor 
with coarse baize, set the sofa on that and you will not be troubled with 
them. Cover a shelf in your closet or pantry with flannel, set whatever you 
wish to keep from the ants on it, and they will at once disappear. 

The squeaking of shoes is due to the rubbing of the upper upon the under 
sole. This is prevented by putting soapstone powder between the two 
thicknesses of leather; which acts as a sort of lubricator. A shoe that has 
squeaked can be cured by the dealer or a cobbler simply by ripping the 
soles apart, putting in soapstone, and sewing or pegging the leather 
together again. 

Coifee and tea pots will become vei'y much discolored inside in a very 
short time. To prevent this about every two weeks put into them a tea- 
spoonful of soda — common baking soda — and fill them about two-thirds 
fall of water and let boil two hours. Wash and rinse well before using. In 
this way thej' will always be sweet and clean. 

To renovate black lace, if narrow wind it tight around a bottle and pin 
it on. Wet it thoroughly with alcohol, and let it remain until perfectly dry. 
It will be like new. If the lace is wide, take the wooden roller from a win- 
dow shade to roll it on. 

Smoke-stained lamp chimneys can be cleaned with salt. Wash them 
first with warm water and soap ; and, while wet, rub them well with dry 
salt. Vinegar will also remove the stains. 

Kerosene will make tin tea kettles as bright as new. Saturate a woolen 
rag and rub with it. It will also remove stains from varnished furniture. 

Clear boiling water will remove tea stains and many fruit stains. Pour 
the water through the stain, and thus prevent it spreading over the fabric. 

To clean marble mantelpieces discolored by smoke, apply benzine, and 
rub it off with Qannel. The application must be made several times, 



■71: 
■is'"' 



M 



