oo 



CM 




g 



CO 




LEWIS'S PRACTICAL SERIES 
HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH 



LEWIS'S PRACTICAL SERIES. 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. By LOUIS C. 
PARKES, M.D., D.P.H. (Lond. Univ.), Fellow of the Sani- 
tary Institute, and Member of the Board of Examiners ; A ssis- 
tant Professor of Hygiene and Public Health at University 
College. Second Edition, with Illustrations, crown Svo, gs. 

A PRACTICAL TEXTBOOK OF THE DISEASES OF 
WOMEN. By ARTHUR H. N. LEWERS, M.D., M.R.C.P., 
Assistant Obstetric Physician to the London Hospital; Exam- 
iner in Midwifery and Diseases of Women to the Society of 
Apothecaries of London. Second Edition, with Illustrations, 
crown 8vo, gs. 

ANAESTHETICS, THEIR USES AND ADMINISTRATION. 
By DUDLEY W. BUXTON. M.D., B.S., Administrator of 
Anesthetics in University College Hospital. Second Edition, 
with Illustrations, crown 8vo. 

MANUAL OF OPHTHALMIC PRACTICE. By C. HIGGENS, 
F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic. Surgeon to Guy's Hospital. With Illus- 
trations, crown 8vo, 6s. 

TREATMENT OF DISEASE IN CHILDREN. By ANGEL 
MONEY, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician to the Hos- 
pital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, and to Univer- 
sity College Hospital. Second Edition, with Plates, crown 
8vo, los. 6d. 

ON FEVERS, THEIR HISTORY, ETIOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS 
PROGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT. By ALEXANDER 
COLLIE, M.D. (Aberd.), M.R.C.P. (Lond.), Medical Superin- 
tendent of the Eastern Hospitals. With Coloured Plates, 
crown 8vo, 8s. 6d 

HANDBOOK OF DISEASES OF THE EAR. By URBAN 
PRITCHARD, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.S. (Eng.), Professor of 
Aural Surgery at King's College; Aural Surgeon to King's 
College Hospital. With Illustrations, crown 8vo, 45. 6d. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE 
KIDNEYS AND URINARY DERANGEMENTS. By 
CHARLES HENRY RALFE, M.A., M.D. (Cantab.), 
F R.C P. (Lond.), Assistant Physician to the London Hospital ; 
Examiner in Medicine to the University of Durham. With 
Illustrations, crown 8vo, ics. 6d. 

DENTAL SURGERY FOR GENERAL PRACTITIONERS 
AND STUDENTS OF MEDICINE. By ASHLEY W. 
BARRETT, M.D. (Lond.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.) L.D.S., Dental 
. Surgeon to the London Hospital. Second Edition, ivith 
Illustrations, crown 8vo, 35. 6d. 

BODILY DEFORMITIES AND THEIR TREATMENT. A 
Handbook of Practical Orthopedics. By H. A. REEVES, 
F.R.C S. (Edin.), Senior Assistant Surgeon and Teacher of 
Practical Surgery at the London Hospital. With 228 Illus- 
trations, crown Bvo, 8s. 6d. 



LONDON: H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, W.C. 



?. 




PUBLIC HEALTH 



BY 



LOUIS C. PARKES, M.D. 

D.P.H., LOND. UNIV. 

FELLOW OF THE SANITARY INSTITUTE, AND MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF EXAMINERS 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH AT 

UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON; 

ASSISTANT EXAMINER IN HYGIENE, SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT, 
SOUTH KENSINGTON 



SECOND EDITION 
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 




LONDON 

H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, W.C. 
1890 



PRINTED BY 

H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET 
LONDON, W.C 



TO 

WILLIAM HENRY CORFIELD, M.A., M.D. OXON., 

F.R.C.P. LOND. 

PROFESSOR OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON J 

EX-PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY OF MEDICAL OFFICERS OF HEALTH ; MEDICAL 

OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR ST. GEORGE'S, HANOVER SQUARE. 

THIS WORK IS, BY PERMISSION, 

DEDICATED, 

AS A TOKEN OF ESTEEM AND GRATITUDE 
BY 

THE AUTHOR. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



THE first edition having been entirely exhausted within 
six months of issue, a second edition is now called for. 
The very favourable reception which the work has re- 
ceived has been a source of much gratification to me, 
and is a sufficient justification of the belief expressed in 
the First Edition, that a small work on Hygiene would 
be of value to students in this branch of science. 

The opportunity has been welcomed of correcting the 
errors which are almost inseparable from a first edition, 
and of adding some matter which the very kindly criti- 
cisms in the press have led me to believe would add to 
the value of the work. 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST .EDITION. 



MY experience as a teacher at University College has 
for some time led me to believe that a small work on 
Hygiene, concisely yet clearly written, would be of 
value to those who are desirous of becoming acquainted 
with this important branch of science. 

The sanitary education which is deficient in a know- 
ledge of the sub-divisions of the main science, must 
be considered in some degree incomplete. It has 
been my endeavour therefore to occupy, within a 
small space, nearly the whole field of sanitary science, 
and to give the reader the opportunity of acquiring 
such an elementary knowledge on every topic as will 
enable him to refer with advantage to the larger and 
more abstruse text-books. 

It has also been impressed upon me that the necessity 
of dealing with figures and statistics, and of making 
mathematical calculations, which is so inseparably con- 
nected with all kinds of public health work, often offers 
considerable difficulties to medical men, whose oppor- 
tunities for the display of mathematical knowledge may 
have been but very limited since leaving school. By 
means of numerous examples and illustrations, where 
they seemed desirable, it is hoped that the reader will 
be enabled to obtain a clear comprehension of these 
matters. 

The chapter on Removal of Excreta is, perhaps, 
somewhat unduly lengthy in proportion to the size of 
the whole book, but I was of opinion that it was desir- 
able to go thoroughly into detail in this chapter, for the 



X PREFACE. 

reason that the apparently most trivial defects in house 
drainage are often the cause of the most severe and yet 
insidious disease outbreaks ; and without a thorough 
knowledge in this branch of Hygiene, the practitioner 
would be unable to arrive at the cause of much that is 
baffling. In connection with this chapter, those who 
are able, should visit the Parkes Museum of Hygiene, 
where they can practically study the various sanitary 
appliances, and see many of them in working order. 

The progress of Bacteriology and the almost uni- 
versal acceptance of a germ theory of infectious disease, 
seemed to point to a chapter on the Contagia and the 
Communicable Diseases, in which the most recent 
advances of bacteriological and etiological investigation 
should be very shortly summarised, as a desirable addi- 
tion. 

One view which I had constantly before me, was to 
provide a suitable work for those who are preparing for 
the Public Health Diplomas of the Universities and 
Medical Corporations ; but its scope and arrangement 
are also such as to render it, I trust, well fitted for 
students in medicine and medical practitioners, who can- 
not afford, now-a-days, to be without some knowledge 
of the science that has so strongly aroused the interest 
of the general public. The work may also prove of 
value to the candidates in the Advanced and Honours 
Stages of the Hygiene Examinations of the Science and 
Art Department. 

In conclusion I wish to acknowledge the kindly help 
and advice of numerous friends ; more especially am I 
indebted to Dr. J. H. E. Brock for his assistance in the 
revision of the proof-sheets. 

L. C. P. 
61 CADOGAN SQUARE, S.W. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

WATER. 

PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY ....... i 

Sources of Water Collection and Storage . . .3 

Rainfall ....... 4 

Upland surface water ...... 8 

Streams and rivers . . . . . .10 

Springs ....... 18 

Wells .24. 

Composition of Water from Various Sources . . -37 

Quantity required . . . . . . 42 

Distribution . . . . . . -44 

Purification . . . . . . -54 

On a large scale . . . . . -55 

Domestic purification . . . . . -59 

Diseases produced by impure water . . -'65 

Examination of Water for Sanitary Purposes . . 73 

Physical examination . . . . . -73 

Microscopical examination of the sediment . . -74 

Quantitative examination of dissolved solids . . 78 

Total solids ....... 7 8 

Chlorine ....... 79 

Nitrates and nitrites . . . -79 

Ammonia . . . . . .81 

Organic matter . . . . . .82 

Hardness . . . . . .86 

Metals ... ... 87 

Biological examination . . . .89 



Xll CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE COLLECTION, REMOVAL, AND DISPOSAL OF EXCRETAL AND 
OTHER REFUSE. 

PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY . . . . . . .92 

Removal of domestic dry refuse . . . -93 

Solid and liquid excreta . . . . 95 

House waste waters . . . . . -97 

Conservancy Systems . . . . . .98 

Middens . . . . . . .98 

Cesspools . . . . . . 99 

The pail system . . . . . . 101 

Manufacture of manure ..... 103 

The dry earth system ..... 105 

The disposal of slop-waters ..... 106 

Comparison of methods . . . . .no 

The Water Carriage System . . . . .in 

House drainage arrangements . . . .112 

Water-closets . . . . . .112 

Hopper closets . . . . . . 113 

Wash-out closet . . . . . .114 

Dececo closet . . . . . . 115 

Water-waste preventers . . . . .116 

Pan closet , . . . . . . 117 

Valve closet . . . . . .119 

Plug closet . . | . . 122 

Trough closet , . . . .124 

Urinals ....... 125 

Slop-sinks ....... 126 

Soil-pipes . . . . . . .126 

House drains ....... 129 

Disconnection of house drain . , . -131 

Testing of house drains . . . . . 135 

Waste pipes , . . . . . .136 

Defective sanitary arrangements in houses . . . 140 

Sewers . . . . ' ." . . . 149 

The combined system . . . . j^i 

The separate system . . ..," . . I 



CONTENTS. Xlll 

PAGE 

Inspection, flushing, and ventilation of sewers . . 156 

Outfall sewers . . . . . . .167 

The Disposal of Sewage . . . . . .168 

The purification and utilisation of sewage . . . 173 

Subsidence, straining, and precipitation . . . 175 
Intermittent downward filtration .... 183 

Irrigation . . . . . . .185 



CHAPTER III. 
AIR AND VENTILATION. 

Composition of the Atmosphere ..... 193 

Vitiation by respiration ..... 196 

Vitiation by combustion ..... 204 

Vitiation from decomposition of organic matters . . 207 

Vitiation of air in industrial occupations . . . 215 

Household dust ...... 222 

Ventilation ........ 226 

External ventilation (streets, buildings, etc.) . . 228 

Ventilation of inhabited rooms .... 230 

Natural ventilation ...... 236 

Artificial ventilation ...... 249 

Extraction ....... 249 

Propulsion ....... 256 

Practical examination of the ventilation and air of inhabited 

rooms ....... 257 

Estimation of carbonic acid in air .... 260 

Estimation of organic matter in air .... 261 

Microscopical examination of suspended matters . . 262 

Examination of air for bacteria, lungi, and moulds . . 262 



CHAPTER IV. 
WARMING AND LIGHTING. 

Warming ........ 264 

Radiation ....... 264 

Open fire-places ...... 264 



XIV CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Open gas-fires ...... 267 

Water-gas ....... 268 

Ventilating grates ...... 269 

Conduction and convection ..... 270 

Close and ventilating stoves .... 271 

Hot-water pipes ...... 272 

Boilers ....... 273 

Lighting ........ 274 

Daylight illumination ...... 274 

Artificial lighting . . . . 276 

Coal gas . . . . . . .277 

Petroleum oils ...... 280 

Electric light . . . . . .281 



CHAPTER V. 

CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 

Climate . . . . . . . .283 

Hot climates ....... 283 

Cold climates ....... 284 

Moist climates ...... 284 

Dry climates ....... 284 

High altitudes . . . . . . 285 

Island climates ...... 287 

Ocean climates . . . . . 288 

Meteorological Instruments ..... 289 

Barometer ....... 289 

Wet and dry bulb thermometer .... 291 

Rain gauge . . . . . . 292 

Thermometers ...... 293 

Ozonometry ....... 294 

Weight of a cubic foot of air . . . . . 294 



CHAPTER VI. 
SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 

Ground Air and Ground Water . . . . . 296 

Movements of . . . . . . . 297 



CONTENTS. XV 

PAGE 

Impurities of . . . . . . . 298 

Drainage of soil ...... 299 

Height of ground water and outbreaks of typhoid fever . 301 

Malaria and marshy soils ..... 303 

Choice of Site of Houses ...... 304 

Concreted basements ...... 305 

Damp-proof course ...... 305 

Walls and foundations ..... 306 



CHAPTER VII. 
FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 

Food . . . . . . . .308 

Classification of foods ..... 308 

Albuminates or proteids ..... 309 

Hydro-carbons or fats . . . . . 311 

Carbo-hydrates or starches .... 312 

Vegetable acids . . . . . . 314 

Mineral salts and water . . . . . 315 

Diets ........ 315 

Meat ........ 320 

Milk 328 

Cows' milk ....... 330 

Examination of cows' milk .... 339 

Butter ........ 341 

Margarine, oleo-margarine or butterine . . . 343 

Cheese ....... 344 

Wheat flour and bread ..... 345 

Other starchy foods ...... 350 

Beverages ...... . 353 

Coffee 353 

Tea 355 

Cocoa . . . . . . . -357 

Mineral waters ...... 357 

Fermented liquors ...... 359 

Spirits ....... 360 

Wines ....... 360 

Beers . . . . . . .361 

Effects of alcohol ...... 362 



XVI CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Condiments ....... 365 

Vinegar . . . . . . . 365 

Lemon and lime juice ..... 365 

Mustard and pepper ...... 366 

Pickles ....... 366 

Confectionery ....... 3 66 



CHAPTER VIII. 
EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 

Exercise ........ 367 

Effects of . . . . . .367 

Rest after .... . . . 368 

Training ....... 369 

Work in foot-tons ...... 369 

Clothing ........ 370 

Cotton ....... 370 

Linen . . . . . . . . 371 

Wool ........ 371 

Cleansing of woollen clothes. . . . . 373 

Silk 373 

Waterproof materials . . . . . . 373 

Clothing in childhood and old age .... 376 

Dyes . . 377 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE CONTAGIA: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AND THEIR PREVEN- 
TION : HOSPITALS. 

The Contagia . . . . . . . 378 

Classification of . . . . . . 382 

Microbial origin of . . . . . 385 

Anthrax . . . . . . . 387 

Tubercle . , . . . . , . . 388 

Glanders ... . . . . . . 389 

Actinomycosis . . . . . . 389 

Erysipelas . . . . fc :'. . 389 



CONTENTS. XV11 

PAGE 

Chemical products of specific microbes ." . . 391 

Attenuation of viri and preventive inoculations . . 393 

Communicable Diseases ...... 394 

Small-pox and vaccination ..... 394 

Scarlet fever ....... 403 

Measles ....... 406 

Whooping cough ...... 409 

Typhus ....... 410 

Diphtheria . . . . . . .411 

Asiatic Cholera ...... 414 

Enteric fever ....... 416 

Dysentery and diarrhoea ..... 419 

Rabies ........ 424 

Contagious ophthalmia ..... 427 

The Prevention of Communicable Diseases . . . 427 

Modification of individual susceptibilities . . . 428 

Compulsory notification ..... 429 

Isolation and quarantine ..... 429 
Disinfection . . . . . . .431 

Hospitals ........ 439 

Cubic and floor space ..... 441 

Oblong and circular wards ..... 442 

Ventilation and warming ..... 444 

Internal construction ...... 445 

Infectious disease hospitals ..... 447 



CHAPTER X. 

STATISTICS. 

Statistical Inquiries ...... 449 

Poisson's rule ....... 450 

Averages and relative values of series . . . 451 

Vital Statistics ....... 452 

The law of population ..... 452 

Estimation of population ..... 453 

Calculation of birth- and death-rates . . . 455 

Significance of death-rates ..... 456 

Age and sex-distribution .*...>. 457 

Influence of birth-rate upon death-rate . . . 460 



XV111 CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Death- rate of combined districts .... 461 

Mean age at death ...... 462 

Mean duration of life . . . . . 462 

Life tables ....... 464 

Death-rates at special age-periods .... 467 

Death-rates from special diseases .... 468 

Fallacies to be avoided ..... 469 



APPENDIX. 

Standard Solutions for Quantitative Analysis . . .471 

Weights and Measures . . . . . . 473 



NOTE. 

The Flashing Point of Petroleum Oils .... 474 
Soaps of commerce ...... 474 






LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



FIG. PAGE 

1. Underground water curves 23 

2. Depression of water in shallow well by pumping . . . 29 

3. Diagrammatic section through London basin 33 
4> 5> 6, 7, 8. Sediment of a polluted water epithelial cells, 

hairs, ova of tape-worm, voluntary muscular fibres, bac- 
teria, ciliated infusoria . 76 

9, 10, n, 12. Fungi and moulds sewage fungus, aspergillus 

glaucus, mucor mucedo, penicillium glaucum ... 77 

13. Privy constructed for pail system 102 

14. Field's annular siphon flush tank 108 

15. Long Hopper water-closet 113 

16. Short Hopper water-closet 114 

17. Wash-out water-closet 114 

18. Dececo water-closet 115 

19. Siphon action water-waste preventer 116 

20. Pan closet with D trap, supplied from drinking water cistern 118 

21. Valve closet with anti-D trap and anti-siphonage pipe . 120 

22. Trough water-closet ........ 124 

23. Soil-pipe and ventilator, with anti-siphonage pipes from 

W.C. branches 127 

24. Soil-pipe interceptor for inside soil-pipe .... 128 

25. Plan of inspection chamber for house drain .... 131 

26. Disconnecting manhole chamber on house drain with fresh 

air inlet .......... 134 

27. Disconnection of rain water and waste pipes over siphon 

yard gulley 137 

28. Flushing gulley for grease 138 

29. Drains laid the right way, and the wrong way . . . 142 

30. Four-inch drain laid the wrong way for want of diminishing 

Pipe 143 

31. Sink with double trapped waste pipe 144 

32. Disconnection trap with outlet higher than the inlet . . 146 

33. Hinckes-Bird's window ventilator 241 

34. Tobin's tube with water tray 241 

35. Window ventilators : Louvre and Cooper's .... 242 



XX LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

FIG. PAGE 

36. Sheringham's valve : Ellison's conical brick ventilators . 243 

37. Mackinnell's ventilator 246 

38. Rifle-backed stove with economise! 266 

39. Diagram of barometer scale and vernier . . . . 290 

40. House foundation with damp-proof course in wall and dry 

area 306 

41. Head of cysticercus cellulosus 321 

42. Trichina spiralis, encysted in muscle 322 

43. Potato starch grains 347 

44. Arrowroot starch grains 347 

45. Maize starch grains 347 

46. Rice starch grains 347 

47. Barley starch grains 347 

48. Pea starch grains 347 

49. Bean starch grains 348 

50. Oatmeal starch grains 348 

51. Wheat starch grains 348 

52. Sago starch grains 348 

53. Tapioca starch grains . 348 

54. Puccinia graminis ........ 349 

55. Smut spores (uredo segetum) 349 

56. Acarus farinas 349 

57. Vibriones tritici 349 

58. Section of wheat grain (outer coat) 349 

59. Coffee. Cells of testa and cellular structure . . . 354 

60. Chicory. Dotted ducts and cellular structure . . . 354 

61. Tea leaves 35 6 

62. Cocoa starch cells 357 

63. Torula cerevisiae (yeast plant) 359 

64. Cotton fibres 371 

65. Linen fibres 372 

66. Wool fibres 3?2 

67. Silk fibres . . . . . . . . . . aye 

68. Hemp fibres 3^5 

69. Incidence of small-pox around the Fulham small-pox 

hospital 3Q5 

70. Seasonal curves of eruptive fevers 3g8 

71. Case mortality in small-pox hospitals 401 

72. Seasonal curve ol cases of scarlet fever .... 407 

73. Seasonal curve of diarrhoea mortality . . ,.,,... . . 431 

74. Diagrams of oblong and circular hospital wards . , . 442 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



CHAPTER I. 
WATER. 

WATER is a prime necessity of life. Without it terrestrial 
animal and vegetable life must cease to exist. The 
earliest settlements in all countries were therefore made 
in the neighbourhood of water. Towns and villages 
sprang up on the banks of streams and rivers, on the 
shores of lakes, and in the neighbourhood of springs ; 
or water was obtained from the soil around these early 
settlements by shallow excavations or wells. Any 
method of bringing water from a distance was then 
unknown. In modern times sites for dwellings are 
not necessarily limited to a small area around a natural 
source of water. Our engineering knowledge enables 
us, on the one hand, to obtain water by means of 
wells and borings from great depths beneath the surface 
of the earth, and on the other to convey water from 
great distances by means of conduits to the places 
where it is required. 

This latter method was well-known to the ancient 
Romans, many of whose aqueducts and reservoirs are 
after the lapse of many centuries still standing, and 
serve to fulfil their original purpose. It must be remem- 
bered, however, that it was not until many years after 
the city was built that Rome was supplied with water 
from the surrounding hills by aqueducts. When the 



2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

river Tiber, the original source of water-supply, became 
much polluted, and the springs and shallow wells in the 
city became insufficient, the first aqueduct known as 
the Appian from the then consul was commenced, 
about the year 312 B.C. or 441 years after the building 
of the city. Rome was doubtless founded upon the 
Tiber for the convenience of the water supply from the 
river. At the height of its prosperity, about 600 years 
after its foundation, the city was supplied with water by 
means of 9 aqueducts. The total supply per head was 
certainly not less than 300 gallons daily for a population 
of about 1,000,000 people; the greater portion of this 
vast supply of water being required for public baths 
and fountains. 

London is another instance of a settlement founded 
originally on the banks of a river, and spreading subse- 
quently away from the neighbourhood of the river only 
in those directions where a water-bearing gravel over- 
laid the impermeable London clay. The bed of gravel 
being of but slight thickness 10 to 30 feet water was 
easily reached by shallow excavations or wells ; whilst 
at some places springs flowed out where the gravel ter- 
minated, as at Bagnigge, Holywell, and Clerkenwell. 
Fifty years ago, parts of London where the clay carr.e 
to the surface, and which are now densely populated 
owing to the introduction of a public water supply, were 
quite uninhabited. 

There is reason to believe that the ancient Egyptians 
and the Chinese from a remote antiquity obtained water 
from great depths below the surface of the earth by 
means of Artesian wells, the water flowing out at the 
mouth of the well; but the practice of making deep 
borings in search of water was not introduced amongst 
western nations until comparatively recent times. 



WATER. 



SOURCES OF WATER COLLECTION AND STORAGE. 

ALL natural sources of water are derived from the rain 
and snow which fall on the surface of the earth. When 
the rain has reached the surface of the ground, it is 
disposed of in the following ways: a portion (a) is 
evaporated; another portion (b) flows off in the direc- 
tion of the inclination of the surface; whilst a third 
portion (c) sinks into or percolates through the interstices 
of the soil. 

The amount of rain that evaporates depends upon the 
temperature of the air. The higher the temperature 
the greater the evaporation. The water, or fallen rain, 
that does not evaporate, either flows off the surface or 
sinks into the soil. If the inclination of the surface is 
nil or only very slight, and the soil is of a porous nature, 
the larger portion sinks into the soil or percolates. If, 
however, the inclination of the surface is great and the 
soil is not porous, but more or less impermeable to 
water, the greater portion of the unevaporated rain 
flows down the incline. It is this portion which forms 
or helps to swell the brooks, streams, and rivers, which 
are the natural drainage channels of the locality. 

The portion that percolates, after a certain deduction 
that must be made for the moisture absorbed by the 
roots of vegetables and grasses growing on the surface, 
which is subsequently evaporated from their green 
leaves, helps to form and renew the underground 
sources of water. These are made available to man by 
natural outlets as springs, or by artificial tappings in 
their subterranean .depths through wells and borings. 
In very porous soils such as pure sand or coarse gravel, 
the rain so rapidly sinks into the interstices of the soil, 

B2 



4 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

that the evporation even in summer is but slight. In 
nearly all other soils, however, the amount of rain 
evaporated greatly exceeds the percolation even in 
winter. 



Rainfall. 

The rain that falls on the roofs of houses can be col- 
lected and made available as a means of water supply. 
To calculate the amount of water supply per head from 
this source, we must know the amount of roof space per 
individual (the slope of the roof must not be taken into 
account, but merely the area of horizontal surface 
covered by the roof) the average amount of yearly 
rainfall, and the average amount of evaporation of the 
rainfall. As the roofs of houses are or should be 
quite impermeable to water, there is no percolation or 
sinking in of the fallen rain. 

The amount of yearly rainfall varies considerably in 
different parts of England. In the Eastern Counties the 
average is less than 25 inches per annum. Throughout 
the remainder of England the average is from 30 to 40 
inches per annum, with very much larger amounts in 
the mountainous and hilly districts of Devonshire, 
Wales, Cumberland, and Westmoreland (60 to 200 
inches per annum). 

The amount of evaporation from the surfaces of roofs 
may be taken as averaging throughout the year 20 per 
cent, of the rainfall. The evaporation is greatest where 
the rainfall is least, and vice versa. If the amount of roof 
space per head in a town is 60 square feet, and the 
rainfall 30 inches in the year, deducting one fifth for 
evaporation, 207,360 cubic inches of rain (= 120 cubic 
feet or 748 gallons) is the amount available for each 



WATER. 5 

person in a year, which is equal to about 2 gallons daily. 
This is the amount available from the rainfall 30 
inches of an average year. It has been found from a 
great number of records of rainfall extending over a 
long series of years in different places, that the rainfall 
in the driest year is one-third less than the average fall, 
whilst in the wettest year it is one-third greater than 
the average. So that in a very dry year, in the example 
above given, the amount of water available may be only 
i^ gallons daily per head, whilst in a very wet year it 
may be 2| gallons. 

Rain is also sometimes collected from prepared sur- 
faces of ground. The surface of a certain area of land 
in an exposed situation is rendered impermeable by a 
covering of slates, asphalte, or cement, and sloped 
towards an outlet pipe or pipes leading to a tank or 
reservoir. In calculating the amount of water that can 
be obtained from such a surface, the same factors must 
be taken into consideration, as has been explained 
above. In any such inquiry, calculations may be facili- 
tated by remembering that one inch of rain delivers 
4'673 gallons on every square yard, or 22,617 gallons 
(101 tons) on each square acre. 

Rain, as it leaves the clouds, is water pure and simple, 
Jee from all foreign ingredients. In J^s passage 
through the air to the earth, it absorbs various impuri- 
ties gaseous and suspended. It becojnes-hiiihly aerated, 
absorbs amrnoniacal salts, nitric and nitrous iicids to a 
small amount, and in the neighbourhood of the sea 
chloride of sodium. The rain falling in towns is found 
to have absorbed sulphurous acid always present in 
the air of towns from combustion of coal and coal gas 
and to contain numerous sooty particles. 

From the observations made at Montsouris, near 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Paris, by Dr. Miquel, it also appears that the rain 
washes out of the air countless bacterial and fungoid 
organisms and their spores. The rain which first falls 
in a shower, and that which falls after a period of dry 
weather, contain far larger numbers of bacteria than 
than which falls later on in a storm, or succeeds the first 
shower: 200,000 germs per litre is not an unusual 
quantity under the first set of circumstances. During 
the warm months of the year, the number of bacteria in 
the rain are greatly in excess of those found in rain fall- 
ing in winter and early spring. The greater number 
of the organisms in rain are micrococci. All the organ- 
isms (micrococci, bacilli, bacteria) found in rain exist to 
a larger extent in the form of germs or spores than in 
the adult state. Besides bacteria, pollen of grasses and 
flowers, microscopic plants such as proiococcus pluviahs, 
and spores of fungi are found in rain ; the latter being 
sometimes in sufficient quantity to cause a localised fall 
of what is known as "coloured rain." 

Rain is thus seen to be a great purifier of air; for it 
washes out of it gaseous and solid impurities organic 
and inorganic. For this reason also the rain which 
falls in the impure smoke and soot-laden atmosphere of 
large towns is unfit to drink. 

When roofs are used as collecting surfaces for rain- 
water, the first portion of rain which falls and descends 
from the roof should be rejected, as it is liable to be 
much polluted with soot, vegetable matter (leaves), and 
animal matters (excrement of birds, etc.) washed off 
from the slates or tiles. After the first washing, the 
remainder of the water may be collected and stored. 
Roberts' Rain Water Separator effects this purpose by 
allowing the first portion of water that passes through 
the apparatus to run to waste through a pipe at its 






WATER. 7 

base. After a certain time, the apparatus, which is 
balanced on a pivot, cants over, owing- to its centre of 
gravity being 1 altered when nearly full of liquid, and 
the water escapes through the outlet below into another 
pipe, which conducts it to a storage cistern. Rain- 
water should always be stored in as pure a condition as 
possible; otherwise the storage receptacle becomes 
coated with foul matters, which putrefy and poison the 
water. 

Rain water is especially useful for cooking- and wash- 
ing on account of its softness ; that is to say, its freedom 
from the salts of lime or magnesia in solution. When 
these salts are dissolved in a water they render it hard. 
Hardness is usually reckoned as so many grains of 
chalk or carbonate of calcium per gallon of water. A 
water containing- more than ten grains of chalk or its 
equivalent in other salts (sulphate or chloride of calcium, 
carbonate of magnesia) to the gallon, is said to be hard. 
Hardness, due to the presence of carbonate of calcium, 
which is chiefly held in solution in the water by its com- 
bination with carbonic acid as a bicarbonate, is said to 
be temporary ; for when the water boils, carbonic acid is 
driven off, and the chalk, no longer able to remain in 
solution, is precipitated. 

It is this deposit of chalk which causes the fur on the 
bottom and sides of boilers and kettles. When meat 
or vegetables are cooked by boiling in hard water, a 
certain amount of the same material is deposited on 
their surfaces, which either hinders the proper penetra- 
tion of the heat into the interior, or prevents solution 
of the soluble materials when this is desired. The fur 
lining is also a non-conducting material, and prevents 
the passage of heat from the fire to the contents of the 
boiler or kettle, thus causing a waste of fuel. 



8 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Great waste of soap too is caused by the use of hard 
water in washing 1 ; and this results from the presence 
of all the salts causing hardness the chloride and sul- 
phate of lime, and the salts of magnesia, which cause 
permanent hardness (as they are not deposited by boiling), 
as well as the chalk which causes temporary hardness. 
In washing-, it is necessary to produce a lather of the 
soap with water; but when the water is hard, the lime 
or magnesia combine with the oleic acid of the soap 
(hard soap is chiefly a stearate of sodium, soft soap an 
oleate of potassium) forming a curdy precipitate ; and 
all the lime or magnesia of the water must be so de- 
posited before a lather can be formed. Consequently a 
certain amount of soap is wasted. One grain of chalk 
wastes about eight grains of soap. It would be easy to 
calculate the yearly waste of soap in a household, if the 
degrees of hardness of the water were known. 

The hardness of rain water is generally less than 
half a degree ; that is to say, there is less than half a 
grain of chalk or its equivalent salts to the gallon of 
water; hence its value for domestic purposes. Rain 
water should never be allowed to run to waste in country 
districts, where the water derived from other sources is 
hard. There is one great disadvantage possessed by 
rain and other soft waters, namely, their liability to 
dissolve lead, iron, or zinc, if left in contact with these 
metals. Consequently cisterns of lead, iron, zinc, or 
galvanized iron should not be used to store rain water; 
and such water when collected from lead roofs should 
not be used for drinking. 



Upland Surface Waters. 
In hilly districts, the water which flows off the hills in 



WATER. Q 

the form of rivulets and streamlets can be collected and 
stored by building a masonry dam or barrier across 
the outlet of the valley to which the streams converge. 
By this method of collection in "impounding reservoirs," 
large artificial lakes are formed ; usually at consider- 
able elevations above the towns which they supply with 
water, and capable of holding a supply sufficient for 
several months. A certain amount of " compensation " 
water (usually estimated at one-third the amount im- 
pounded) must be allowed to pass down to the mill 
owners on the streams whose waters have been diverted. 

The water supplied to Dublin is derived in such 
manner from gathering grounds at Vartry amongst the 
Wicklow hills, 26 miles from the city. It is one of the 
purest waters in the world, containing only 4*5 grains 
of solid matters per gallon, of which about one- half is 
due to peat (vegetable organic matter) ; its total hard- 
ness is r8 grains per gallon, of which O'S is permanent 
hardness. When first impounded, the water had a yel- 
lowish colour which became gradually darker, owing to 
the fermentation of the peaty matter in the reservoir, 
whereby its solubility was increased. But this yellow tint 
gradually grew less intense, and in 2 or 3 years time 
the water became colourless. 

Peaty matter is very frequently present in the upland 
surface waters of mountainous districts, often imparting 
a decidedly yellow or brownish hue to the water. It 
may be removed by filtering the water through beds of 
sand, as is done at Vartry (Dublin) ; but as it is really 
quite innocuous, this measure is often more a matter of 
expediency than of necessity. Nearly all the waters 
supplied to Irish towns from gathering grounds amongst 
hills and mountains are more or less coloured with 
peat. 



IO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Under the heading- of Upland Surface Waters may 
also be considered the waters derived from natural 
lakes in mountainous districts, of which Glasgow fur- 
nishes a good example. Glasgow is supplied with 
water from Loch Katrine, 34 miles north of the City. 
This water contains only 2j grains of solid matters 
per gallon, of which about one half is organic (peat), 
whilst the remainder is mineral. It has a very faint 
yellow colour. This beautifully soft and pure lake 
water, which replaced in 1859 the grossly polluted 
supply drawn from the Clyde, has been of inestimable 
advantage to Glasgow ; not only by raising the stand- 
dard of health of its inhabitants, but also by effecting 
an enormous saving in manufacturing and industrial 
pursuits, from the fact of there being but one grain of 
lime per gallon of the water instead of several. The 
saving in soap alone is estimated at 36,000 per annum. 

Upland surface and lake waters approach more 
nearly to the composition of rain water in their com- 
parative freedom from foreign ingredients organic or 
mineral than waters derived from any other source. 
Many of the manufacturing towns in Lancashire and 
Yorkshire are supplied with upland surface waters. 

The quantity of water that can be collected and 
stored in an impounding reservoir amongst hills, can 
be calculated with some approach to accuracy, if the 
area of the catchment basin, the average rainfall, and 
the average amount of percolation, evaporation, and 
flow of the rainfall off the surface, are known. Records 
of the rainfall, percolation, etc., extending over a long 
series of years are most useful for this purpose. 

Streams and Rivers. 
Streams near their sources, passing through unculti- 



WATER. II 

vated land on hills and moorlands devoid of human 
habitations, are good sources of water supply; they 
form in fact those upland surface waters which have 
already been considered. 

Streams and rivers in their course through cultivated 
valleys, with towns and villages on their banks, furnish 
water which must always be regarded as suspicious from 
the health point of view, and in many cases as danger- 
ously polluted. 

The composition of river water, as regards its mineral 
ingredients, is most variable. Fed from a variety of 
sources, by springs and streams in the uplands, by sur- 
face drainage, by springs in their beds, and by other 
streams and rivers throughout the whole of their course, 
rivers are a combination of spring and surface waters, 
and present sometimes chiefly the characteristics of the 
one, sometimes those of the other. Most river waters are 
hard waters, containing in solution the salts of lime 
and magnesia, which are washed out of the soil in the 
bed of the river by the solvent action of the- dissolved 
carbonic acid in the river water. But in some cases 
these salts are chiefly derived from the springs which 
feed the river and its tributaries. Thames water, for 
instance, contains 15 grains to the gallon of lime salts, 
or their equivalents causing hardness. The water of 
the Ouse at York contains 9 grains per gallon of in- 
organic salts. 

But it is not these inorganic matters which cause 
river waters to be looked on with suspicion, but rather 
those pollutions of animal origin to which all rivers, as 
being the natural drainage channels of the surrounding 
land, must be subject. The surface and subsoil drainage 
from manured land under cultivation, the slop waters 
and the sewage from towns and villages, all flow into 



12 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the river, which they pollute with organic matters, fresh 
or putrid, of animal origin, amongst which may be con- 
cealed the specific poisons of infectious disease or their 
germs. Towns, as a rule, draw their supply of water 
from a river above the spot at which the sewage of the 
town is discharged. But the intake of the next lower 
town on the banks of that river must necessarily be 
from a stream already polluted with sewage ; and the 
question arises Can a river once polluted with sewage, 
and with all the possibilities of specific disease con- 
tamination thereby introduced, ever be a safe source of 
supply below the source of pollution? and if so, is the 
water purified by natural means, or must it be subjected 
to some process of artificial purification? This question 
has given rise to a controversy which has not yet been 
definitely settled. It may be discussed from the point 
of view of theoretical considerations or from that of 
practical results. 

When sewage or other polluting liquids are dis- 
charged into rivers, they are more or less diluted with 
the river water, the amount of dilution depending on 
the comparative volumes of sewage and river water 
which are thus mixed together. If the river, into which 
the sewage is discharged, consists of clean and hitherto 
unpolluted water, the atmospheric oxygen dissolved in 
it, which is chemically much more active than the 
oxygen of the air, will, to a certain extent, oxidise the 
organic matters of the sewage. If, too, the dilution of 
the sewage with clean water is considerable, plant life 
is not interfered with, but continues to give off oxygen, 
reoxygenating the water, and enabling the process of 
purification by oxidation to continue. No doubt, too, 
as the oxygen dissolved in the water is used up, fresh 
oxygen is absorbed from the air. Besides water plants. 



WATER. 13 

minute animals (infusoria, anguillulidre or water worms, 
entomostraca or water fleas, etc.) aid the process of 
purification by feeding 1 on the organic impurities of 
sewage. These organisms are found in countless 
numbers in the polluted reaches of rivers. Fish, too, if 
the pollution is not sufficiently great to cause much 
diminution of dissolved oxygen in the water, feed on 
some of the elements of sewage, and aid in the process 
of purification ; and if the current is sluggish, or in the 
deep and quiet pools of a rapid stream, the suspended 
matters of the sewage will be largely deposited. 

The result of all these processes is that, under certain 
conditions and within certain limits, streams and rivers 
which have been polluted are capable of undergoing a 
certain amount of self-purification by natural means. 
How far this self-purification extends, in other words, 
its greater or less completeness within a certain dis- 
tance of flow, is still a matter of doubt. The Rivers 
Pollution Commissioners (Sixth Report) came^ to the 
conclusion, as the result of their experiments, that "the 
oxidation of the organic matter in sewage proceeds 
with extreme slowness, even when the sewage is mixed 
with a large volume of unpolluted water, and that it is 
impossible to say how far such water must flow before 
the sewage matter becomes thoroughly oxidised. It 
will be safe to infer, however, from the above results, 
that there is no river in the United Kingdom long 
enough to effect the destruction of sewage by oxidation." 
On the other hand, several eminent chemists have ex- 
pressed their belief that a flow of even a few miles is 
sufficient to free a river ot all trace of sewage con- 
tamination. 

The truth of the matter appears to be, that under 
favourable conditions, when the dilution of the sewage 



14 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

with clean water is very considerable, and the oxidation 
and purification exerted by aquatic animal and vege- 
table life can have free play, a stream or river, especi- 
ally if it undergoes agitation and exposure to the air by 
flowing over rapids or by falling over weirs, is capable 
of being so far purified, that, although it may never 
quite regain its original purity, it becomes at least very 
much improved. Practically, however, in this country, 
streams and rivers are not allowed a chance of self- 
purification. The pollution is almost continuous from 
their sources to their mouths. 

When the river, into which sewage is discharged, is 
already much polluted, or if the dilution is not suffici- 
ently great, oxidation and purification are brought to a 
standstill. The dissolved oxygen is greatly diminished 
in amount, animal and vegetable aquatic life is in- 
juriously affected or destroyed, and putrefaction sets in. 
The bacterial agents of putrefaction are the only 
organisms which can flourish under such conditions ; 
decomposition and fermentation of organic matters is 
started, with the production of foul gases ; the bed ot 
the river becomes silted up with decaying matters, 
which, buoyed up by gases, occasionally rise to the 
surface to sink again, and a most serious nuisance 
results. The process is one eventually tending to puri- 
fication by resolution of complex organic bodies into 
their simpler elements, but in the meantime the effects 
of the process are most offensive. 

A considerable rise of temperature will produce a like 
result on rivers which are having their purifying powers 
tested to the height of their capacity. Purification goes 
on so long as the weather is cool, but with a rise in 
temperature, bacterial growth is stimulated, and decom- 
position sets in, replacing the oxidising processes. This 



WATER. 15 

happened to the tidal portion of the Thames in the 
summer of 1884, resulting 1 in a condition of things which 
the Royal Commissioners on Metropolitan Sewage 
Discharge stigmatised as "a disgrace to the Metropolis 
and to civilization." In the North of England, the 
Irwell and Mersey are so polluted with sewage and 
manufacturing refuse from the towns on their banks, 
that purification by oxidation may be said not to exist in 
these waters, which carry their filth and refuse unacted 
on and unchanged to the sea. 

Sewage in potable waters waters intended for 
drinking is chiefly dangerous from the fact of its con- 
taining, or being- liable to contain, the specific poisons 
of disease. Cholera and enteric fever, diarrhoea and 
dysentery, we know to be sometimes spread by means 
of infected or polluted water. We have no evidence as 
to the destruciion of the poisons of these or other dis- 
eases in running waters ; but we have reason to.believe 
that, even if they are not destroyed, they at any rate do 
not increase or multiply to any extent in polluted waters 
undergoing self-purification. If it were not so, London, 
which is so largely supplied with a filtered, but never- 
theless polluted water from the Thames, would not ex- 
hibit so low a death-rate; for we can hardly suppose 
that filtration through sand or gravel can always effec- 
tually remove or destroy the countless disease germs 
which would be otherwise present in the water. 

The process of storage and purification pursued by 
the London (Thames) Water Companies, on the effi- 
ciency of which the health and freedom from disease of 
so large a population depends, is as follows : 

The water taken from the river at Hampton is passed 
into a storage reservoir of masonry, capable of holding- 
several days' supply. It is important that the capacity 



l6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of this reservoir should be sufficiently great, both to 
obviate the necessity of drawing- water from the river 
when it is in flood, and therefore very turbid, and to 
allow time for the clarification of the water by the 
deposition of all its suspended matters. The five com- 
panies supplying Thames water to London have storage 
reservoirs of an aggregate capacity of 516 million 
gallons, capable of holding 7-3 days' supply the 
average daily supply from these five companies being 
7O - 5 million gallons. From the storage reservoirs the 
water passes on to the surface of the filter beds, which 
consist of layers of fine sand (average thickness ^Jeet) 
lying upon layers of gravel, fine above, but coarse 
below. In the coarse gravel are the open mouths of 
the outlet pipes, which convey the filtered water to the 
pumping stations, from whence it passes through iron 
mains to the metropolis or to a high level reservoir 
near London. 

The depth of water on the filter beds is never more 
than two feet ; the average rate of filtration per square 
foot of filter bed being i J gallons per hour. The upper 
layers of fine sand must be frequently renewed, as they 
become choked with sediment. They are usually 
removed, and washed with water jetted from .a hose 
under high pressure, before being used again in the 
filter beds. 

The result of this filtration process is the production 
of a pure and wholesome water, which, whatever its 
tainted origin, has never yet been known to cause 
disease among its consumers. The quality of the 
water depends largely upon the efficiency of the filtering 
process, and as a matter of fact, the Chelsea and West 
Middlesex Companies usually supply a rather purer 
water than the three other companies (Southwark, 



WATER. 17 

Grand Junction, and Lambeth), the two first companies 
having- larger storage capacity and greater thickness of 
fine sand in the filter beds than the others. The same 
fact has been brought to light in a different way by Dr. 
Percy Frankland, who has shown tha/. the micro- 
organisms (harmless) present in unfiltered Thames 
water at Hampton are reduced in number on the 
average 97'7 per cent, by the storage and filtration 
which the water undergoes at the hands of the water 
companies, but that this reduction is largest in the case 
of those companies which have the largest storage capa- 
city for unfiltered water, the greatest thickness of fine 
sand in the filter beds, the slowest rate of filtration, 
and the most frequent renewal of the filter beds all 
these being factors of much influence on the chemical, 
as well as on the biological characteristics of the water. 

The conclusion that we may come to then, in the case 
of the London water supply from the Thames, is that, 
as long as it is efficiently filtered, it is pure and whole- 
some ; but that the Thames is not really a safe source 
of supply, for should the filtering arrangements break 
down at a period of epidemic prevalence in the upper 
reaches of the river, disease would in all probability 
arise amongst the consumers of the water in London. 
The same may be said of any other polluted river used 
as a source of drinking- water. 

An interesting- example of a water supply derived 
from a foully polluted river was, until recently, furnished 
by the town of Wakefield, which drew its water chiefly 
from the Calder a stream already intensely polluted 
with sewage and manufacturing- refuse about a mile 
below its own main sewer outlet into the river. This 
water, taken from a stream in a black and putrescent 
condition, was filtered by passing it through sand and 



18 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

magnetic carbide of iron. The filtered water, although 
undoubtedly improved, was still grossly contaminated 
with organic matters in solution. 

The yield of a small stream, or water-course, may be 
approximately ascertained by observing the average 
width and depth of the stream over a portion of the 
channel where it is pretty uniform. The yield is found 
by multiplying -the area thus obtained by four-filths of 
the surface velocity in this portion of channel. If the 
whole stream is damned up and made to pass through a 
trough of known area and length, through a sluice of 
known size, or over a weir in which a rectangular notch 
is cut, the discharge of water can be estimated by any 
one of these methods with great nicety (Parked Practical 
Hygiene, 7th Edition). 

Springs. 

As previously described (p. 3) some of the rain which 
falls on the surface of the earth evaporates ; another 
portion flows off the surface ; whilst the remainder 
percolates or sinks into the interstices of the soil. In its 
passage through the soil, the portion of rain that per- 
colates absorbs carbonic acid from the ground air, 
which is very much richer (250 times) in this gas than 
ordinary atmospheric air. This water holding carbonic 
acid gas in solution is capable of dissolving some of the 
mineral constituents of the rocks over whicn it passes. 

The most important minerals found in underground 
waters, issuing as springs, or derived from deep wells, 
are : calcium carbonate from chalk, oolite, limestone, 
and sandstone ; calcium sulphate from the same strata 
and from selenite ; magnesium carbonate and sulphate 
from magnesian limestones ; iron from the greensands 



WATER. IQ 

and from the new red sandstone ; and salts of sodium 
or potassium from sandstone rocks and other strata. 
In some springs, derived from underground waters at 
great depths below the surface of the earth ; the mineral 
constituents of the water are so excessive in amount as 
to render it quite unfit for drinking, but valuable for 
medicinal purposes. The temperature of such springs 
is also often high. There can be little doubt that the 
water giving rise to these springs is, in many cases, 
forced out of the earth by the pressure of confined or 
expanding gases. But the origin of most of the springs 
which afford a pure and wholesome water for ordinary 
use may be explained in a different manner. 

The rain which percolates into the porous strata 
(sand, gravel, chalk, sandstone, etc.,) at the surface of 
the earth, sinks through these strata by the force of 
gravity until it reaches as it usually does at a greater 
or less depth an impermeable stratum of hard rock, 
such as clay. Upheld by this stratum, the water 
accumulates and forms those underground reservoirs 
which supply the springs and wells. This underground 
water does not always stand at the same level. It is 
constantly rising and sinking, and in most years these 
variations of level are fairly regular, both as to amount, 
and as to the season of the year at which they occur. 
The highest level is usually reached in February or 
March, whilst the lowest occurs in October or November. 
The cause of these variations must be looked for in the 
circumstances attending the rainfall. 

In districts having an average rainfall (25 to 30 inches 
per annum), the amounts of rain that fall in summer and 
in winter are very nearly equal. But in the summer 
months (April to September) the amount of rain that 
percolates is very small;' it is only one-seventh of the 

C2 



20 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



summer rainfall in chalky soils. Nearly all the rain 
that falls in an average summer is evaporated from the 
surface of the soil or from the leaves of plants. The 
consequence is that the underground water is not re- 
plenished from the surface, and its level sinks. In the 
winter months (October to March) considerably more 
than half the rainfall percolates in chalky soils, the re- 
mainder being lost by evaporation. The underground 
water begins to rise usually in November, if percolation 
has commenced in October, and continues to rise until 
it attains its maximum in March. The following table 
shows the average rainfall and percolation in chalky 
soil. The observations were made by means of a soil 
gauge at Nash Mills, Hemel Hempstead, and cover a 
period of over 29 years. 



WINTER. 


SUMMER. 


ENTIRE YEAR. 


Rain. 


Perco- 
lation. 


Differ- 
ence or 
loss. 


Rain. 


Perco- 
lation. 


Differ- 
ence or 
loss. 


Rain. 


Perco- 
lation. 


Differ- 
ence or 
loss. 


I3-33 


8-n 


5-22 


14-09 


2-18 


11-91 


27-42 


IO'2Q 


I 7' I 3 



Occasionally it happens, as in 1879, which had a very 
wet summer, that the underground water rises during 
the summer months. But such years are exceptional. 

There is always a certain amount of percolation in the 
summer months, and this varies within rather wide 
limits. In some years it is nil, in other years it is as 
in 1879 as great as the evaporation (over 12 inches). 
The reason of this appears to be, that the soil (chalk in 
this case) is able to evaporate about 12 inches of rain in 
the 6 summer months. If the summer rainfall is much 
less than 12 inches, there is no 'percolation at all; but if 



WATER. 21 

the rainfall exceeds 12 inches, the difference percolates, 
and helps to replenish the underground waters. In the 
chalk, as we have seen, about 37 per cent, of the entire 
rainfall percolates; in the new red sandstone about 25 
per cent.; in the magnesian limestone 20 per cent.; 
whilst in the loose sands and gravels about 90 per cent, 
of the rainfall is said to percolate. 

The underground water is not only constantly chang- 
ing its level, but it is also always moving slowly towards 
its natural outlet. The water tends to find its own level 
according to the law of gravitation ; not rapidly but 
slowly, owing to the friction and capillarity which ob- 
struct its passage through the interstices of the rocks or 
soil. The outlet may be into the sea, or a river, or by 
springs on a hill side, at a much lower level. 

It has been found by observation on deep wells, near 
.to, and at varying distances from the outlet of a body 
of underground water, that it has a curved surface from 
its outlet to its highest levels. The curve rises steeply 
from the outlet, but gradually becomes more horizontal 
as the distance from the outlet increases (fig. i). The 
variations in level between high and low underground 
water are small near the outlet, whilst they gradually 
increase as the distance from the outlet increases. The 
higher the level of the underground water, the greater 
is the fall from its highest point to the outlet, and con- 
sequently, the larger the volume of water discharged at 
the outlet. 

Springs are formed by the "cropping out" on the 
surface of the earth of the impermeable stratum which 
holds the underground water up, i.e., prevents it from 
sinking further into the earth. They are natural outlets 
of underground water, and are usually divided into 
" main " and " land " springs. 



22 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Land springs are the outlets of limited collections of 
underground water, formed in superficial beds of sand 
or gravel overlying an impermeable stratum of clay. 
They are often intermittent, ceasing altogether to flow 
during the summer, when the underground water is ex- 
hausted, and beginning again in the autumn, very soon 
after percolation commences. Intermittent springs are 
also formed where a valley cuts across the highest levels 
of a large volume of underground water, so that the 
spring flows only for a short period of every year 
usually in February or March when the highest water 
line of the underground water is tapped by the depres- 
sion of the valley (fig. i). 

Main springs are the deep-seated springs issuing from 
regular geological formations, such as chalk, oolite, 
sandstone. They are usually perennial, flowing all the 
year round, but exhibit well marked seasonal variations, 
their volume increasing in winter, when the underground 
water level stands highest, and the fall to the outlet is 
greatest. 

Springs afford good sources of water supply for small 
communities, such as villages. Main springs are better 
than land springs, both because, as before stated, they 
yield water throughout the entire year, and because they 
are less liable to accidental pollutions, the great thick- 
ness of strata, through which the water percolates from 
the surface, effectually oxidising any organic impurities 
it may contain. Such spring water is usually clear and 
sparkling, well aerated, and of nearly constant temper- 
ature throughout the year. It generally contains more 
or less of the salts producing hardness, and is, therefore, 
though palatable and wholesome for drinking, less well 
suited for washing, cooking, and manufacturing pur- 
poses, than the soft waters. 



WATER. 23 

To guard against pollution, the surface of the soil 




around the point of delivery of a spring should be walled 



24 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

in, and the water conducted to the surface by a short 
pipe. In some cases it may be necessary to collect the 
water issuing- from a spring-, and to store it in a reser- 
voir before distribution to the houses of the consumers. 

The yield of a spring- may be estimated by observing 
how long it takes to fill a vessel of known capacity. 
It is well to know the average flow throughout the year. 



Wells. 

It is usually said that there are three kinds of wells. 
shallow, deep, and artesian; but this last is merely a 
variety of a deep well. Whatever the depth of a well, 
the water in it is derived from the rainfall on the surface, 
and from that portion of the rainfall that percolates into 
the soil. The source of the water in wells is thus the 
same as that of springs, and the composition of the 
water in wells will be very much the same as that of the 
spring water derived from the same strata. 

Shallow wells are those which are sunk into superficial 
porous beds of sand or gravel overlying an impermeable 
stratum of clay or other dense rock. They tap the 
underground water held up by the impermeable stratum, 
and yield a water identical in composition with that 
flowing from the "land" springs in the neighbourhood. 
The depth of the well must, of course, vary with the 
vertical distance of the impermeable stratum from the 
surface of the earth ; as a rule, this distance is not 
great, and in fact it is often said that shallow wells are 
those which are less than fifty feet deep ; but it is better 
to keep to the definition here given. 

The rural population of this country derives its water 
almost exclusively from shallow wells; formerly shallow 



WATER. 25 

wells were also the usual sources of supply in towns, but 
these, in nearly all instances, have now been Abolished 
in favour of a public supply from unpolluted sources. 
The Rivers Pollution Commissioners (Sixth Report) 
stated that in their experience shallow wells are almost 
always horribly polluted by sewage and by animal 
matters of the most disgusting- origin. 

"The common practice in villages, and even in many 
small towns, is to dispose of the sewage and to provide 
for the water supply of each cottage, or pair of cottages, 
upon the premises. In the little yard or garden attached 
to each tenement or pair of tenements, two holes are 
dug in the porous soil; into one of these, usually the 
shallower of the two, all the filthy liquids of the house 
are discharged, from the other, which is sunk below 
the water line of the porous stratum, the water for 
drinking and other domestic purposes is pumped. 
These two holes are not unfrequently within twelve feet 
of each other, and sometimes even closer. The contents 
of the filth hole or cesspool gradually soak away 
through the surrounding soil and mingle with the water 
below. As the contents of the water hole, or well, are 
pumped out, they are immediately replenished from the 
surrounding disgusting mixture, and it is not therefore 
very surprising to be assured that such a well does not 
become dry even in summer. Unfortunately, excremen- 
titious liquids, especially after they have soaked through 
a few feet of porous soil, do not impair the palatibility 
of water; and this polluted liquid is consumed from 
year to year without a suspicion of its character, until 
the cesspool and well receive infected sewage, and then 
an outbreak of epidemic disease compels attention to the 
polluted water. Indeed our acquaintance with a very 
large proportion of this class of potable waters has 



26 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

been made in consequence of the occurrence of severe 
outbreaks of typhoid fever amongst the persons using 
them " (Sixth Report). 

The above passage indicates briefly the conditions 
under which shallow well waters are usually drunk; 
but it will be advisable to consider the sources of pollu- 
tion of such well-water somewhat more in detail. 

Where the level of the underground water is but a 
few feet from the surface, it is obvious that the surface 
water, which may contain impurities, has but little 
chance of being purified by oxidation in its passage 
through the soil to the well. But the grosser pollutions 
that shallow well waters suffer from, come, not from 
this source, but from leaking drains and cesspools in the 
vicinity. 

Cesspools are but rarely made watertight, as they 
would then require to be frequently emptied. When 
sunk in a porous soil and merely lined with bricks 
without mortar or cement, the liquids soak away, and 
the solids small in volume so gradually accumulate 
that the cesspool can be closed over and need not be 
opened for years. The liquid sewage percolates through 
the soil and joins the underground water below. As the 
underground water is as before explained slowly but 
steadily moving along in the direction of its natural 
outlet, the position of the well, in regard to the cesspool, 
is all important. Should the well be above the cesspool, 
the underground water flowing from the well to the 
cesspool, the risk of pollution is greatly diminished, so 
long as but little water is drawn from the well. If the 
well is below the cesspool, it must infallibly be polluted 
with the cesspool soakage. The direction of flow of 
the underground water can usually be determined from 
the contour of the surrounding country ; and this evi- 






WATER. 27 

dence can be confirmed by observations on the height 
of the underground water at different places, rs deter- 
mined by the height of the water (above sea level or 
ordnance datum) in different wells, for the level of the 
underground water falls as it approaches its outlet, 
giving rise to a curve which has been already con- 
sidered (see p. 23). 

When, however, the amount of water abstracted is 
sufficiently great to cause a considerable depression of 
the water in the well, the conditions are altered; for 
the well then drains an area all around it in the form of 
a circle, that is to say, the water in the well is renewed 
not only from above as regards the flow of under- 
ground water but from below; and in such a case it 
would not matter what position the well had to the 
cesspool, if the cesspool was included in the area 
drained by the well, for pollution must inevitably occur. 
The distance within which a well draws water to itself, 
when its own water level has been depressed by pump- 
ing, depends on the amount of the depression and on 
the nature of the soil. 

This distance the radius of the circle drained by the 
well is best expressed in terms of the depression. In 
fine sands and gravels, which offer considerable re- 
sistance to the passage of water, the distance varies 
from 15 to 39 times the depression. In the chalk, 
where fissures facilitate the passage of water, the dis- 
tance is 57 times the depression. In very coarse gravel, 
which allows free passage of water, the distance is from 
68 to 160 times the depression; and in the new red 
sandstone, where extensive fissures exist, the distance is 
143 times the depression. These results are founded on 
observations made, chiefly abroad, by sinking borings 
at different distances around a well. They are very 



28 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

instructive, but require confirmation by extended obser- 
vation. 

The surface of the underground water in the area of 
the circle drained by a well depressed by pumping-, has 
the form of a curve, analogous to the natural curve of 
the underground water, with steep vertical gradient 
near the well, but rapidly becoming more nearly hori- 
zontal as the distance from the well increases (fig. 2). 

We have thus seen, that the conditions which deter- 
mine the freedom or otherwise of a shallow well from 
cesspool or sewage pollution are: (i) Its position as 
to cesspools or other sources ot pollution, with regard 
to the flow of underground water; (2) the amount of 
depression of water level in the well which may be 
produced at any time by pumping; (3) the nature of 
the soil in which the well is sunk, as regards porosity 
and the easy passage of water. It is quite possible, if 
these conditions are attended to, to sink a well that shall 
be uncontaminable in or near a village, in which the 
shallow wells generally are horribly polluted with cess- 
pool soakage. 

The well must be sunk in such a position as regards 
possible sources of pollution, that the underground 
water flows from the well to the sources of pollution. 
The distance of the well from such possible polluting 
sources should be from 100 to 160 times the depression 
of the water in the well that is ever likely to be pro- 
duced by pumping, this distance varying with the nature 
of the soil. The mouth of the well should be closed 
over and the water raised by an iron pump; draw-wells 
where the water is raised by a windlass, chain, and 
bucket through an open mouth are liable to accidental 

* See Article on "Water," in Our Homes, by Rogers Field and 
J. W. Peggs. 



WATER. 29 

contamination from refuse being thrown in, or animals 




falling in. To prevent contamination from impure 



30 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

surface washings, the mouth of the well should be pro- 
tected by a coping-, and the drainage water from the 
pump conducted away to a safe distance. 

If the porous stratum in which the well is sunk is of 
considerable thickness, the underground water being 30 
feet or more from the surface, the sides of the well for 
this depth should be imperviously steined with brick- 
work set in and lined with hydraulic cement. If this is 
done, water percolating from the surface must pass 
through at least 30 feet of soil before entering the well. 
In its passage through the soil, the organic impurities in 
the water will be, to a certain extent, removed by oxida- 
tion. 

It is a curious circumstance in regard to the grossly 
polluted waters of many shallow wells, that they are as 
a rule clear, sparkling, and very palatable. The 
organic filth from cesspools and drains, in its passage 
through even a few feet of porous soil, is filtered and 
deprived of suspended matters, but without losing its 
dangerous properties. The shallow well into which the 
filth percolates is found to furnish a water loaded with 
ammonia and chlorides evidences of sewage (urine) 
contamination with organic matters in solution, and 
with nitrates and nitrites, the oxidised residues of 
ammonia and organic matters, but yet, from its con- 
taining abundance of carbonic acid gas, sparkling and 
palatable. If such a water, however, is put in a bottle 
and kept in a warm place, it very soon becomes turbid, 
then putrid, and is found to swarm with bacterial life. 
Such wells too, after a heavy rainfall, are very liable to 
furnish a turbid and foul smelling water which nobody 
would think of drinking. The heavy rain washes foul 
substances in the soil, derived by soakage from manure 
heaps, middens, privies, or cesspools, straight into the 



WATER. 31 

well, no time being* allowed for that filtering- and partial 
purification by oxidation which does so much to g-ive 
the well-water at ordinary times its pure but deceptive 
appearance. 

Polluted shallow well-waters are usually excessively 
hard (both permanent and temporary hardness) and 
therefore unsuited for domestic purposes. The hardness 
is largely due to the polluting liquids which find their 
way into the well, but little being caused by the mineral 
salts present in the strata through which the well is 
sunk. Another source of pollution of shallow wells is 
the vicinity of graveyards. What has been already 
said as to cesspool pollution is quite as applicable to the 
dangerous pollution arising" from this source, especially 
as regards the flow of underground water, whether it be 
from the well to the graveyard, or from the graveyard 
to the well. 

Tube wells are contrivances for obtaining 1 water from 
superficial porous strata by means of boring's. They 
were largely used during- the Abyssinian campaign, 
where the occupation of any piece of ground was neces- 
sarily temporary, the tube being- quickly sunk and as 
quickly withdrawn. An iron tube with a steel nozzle 
and perforations at its lower end for the passage of 
water is driven into the ground by a driving- weight or 
"monkey"; before it has altogether disappeared into 
the ground another length of tube is screwed on, and 
this is then driven into the soil. Successive lengths of 
tube are attached until a depth of 20 to 28 feet is 
reached when a hand pump is screwed on to the top, 
and the water pumped out. Difficulty is often experi- 
enced from sand blocking the lower part of the tube 
and the perforations. The sand must be dislodged by a 
clearing tool, or pumped out until a space free from 



32 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

sand is formed around the nozzle, and the water issues 
clear and bright. 

Deep wells are those which are sunk to considerable 
depths in search of water through regular geological 
strata such as chalk, oolite, and sandstone. Those also 
are known as deep wells, which pass through a super- 
ficial porous bed and an underlying impermeable 
stratum to reach water-bearing strata at greater 
depths, though often at no great distance from the 
surface. Thus it may happen that a shallow well sunk 
50 feet into a porous soil may be deeper than a deep 
well at no great distance away, which passes through 
the impermeable stratum upholding the water which 
supplies the shallow well. 

If the sides of a deep well of this nature are properly 
steined with brickwork set in cement as far down as the 
impermeable stratum, surface waters and underground 
water resting on this stratum are entirely excluded, and 
the well is freed from those sources of pollution which 
so greatly contaminate shallow well-waters. Steining 
should also be applied to deep wells sunk through 
porous strata for the whole of their depth; in this way 
surface pollutions are compelled to pass through con- 
siderable thicknesses of soil before reaching the well. 

The water which supplies deep wells has usually 
travelled a long distance since it fell as rain on the 
surface of the earth. The outcrop of the water-bearing 
strata on the surface may be many miles from the spot 
at which the well is sunk, as is the case with the deep 
wells in the chalk sunk through the London basin. 

The London basin is interesting as an example of a 
geological formation with water-bearing strata in 
different rocks at varying depths from the earth's sur- 
face (fig. 3). Most superficially are the subterranean 



WATER. . 33 

waters in the beds of gravel or alluvium of but slight 




bO 
O 
J3 



- uJ 

bb 

^ <u 

rt ex 

.C D, 

O D 



bD 

^ <u 

rt O 
O H-J 

fel O 



6 i 



2 c 
5 o 
in i-3 



F-i " 
c *3 



^ c 
6 ^ 



thickness (ro to 30 feet) upheld by the London clay, 

TN 



34 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

These waters supplied the shallow wells which formerly 
formed so large a part of the water supply of London. 
After boring through the London clay (100 to 400 feet 
in the neighbourhood of London) water is again reached 
or was before these strata were exhausted in the 
Lower London Tertiaries, beds of sand, gravel, or clay 
of variable thickness (20 to 100 feet) with limited out- 
crops beyond the edge of the London clay, and more or 
less surrounding it as they rise from the margin of the 
basin. The places where these beds are best exposed, 
and from which they take their names are blackheath 
and Oldhaven, Woolwich and Reading, and the Isle of 
Thanet. Having such a limited exposure to rainfall, 
the water which accumulated in the deep strata of these 
beds under the London clay was soon exhausted, when 
numerous wells were sunk into them. 

Beneath the Lower London Tertiaries comes the chalk, 
with its outcrop in the chalk hills and downs, north, 
south, and west of the Thames basin, and many miles 
from its centre. The outcrop forms a very extensive 
catchment area for rain, which, percolating through the 
joints and fissures of the chalk, gives rise to vast reser- 
voirs of subterranean water in the underground exten- 
sion of this rock beneath the tertiary beds of the London 
basin. As the London basin is hollowed into the form 
of a shallow trough, the sides of the trough being the 
outcrop of the chalk in hills and downs, it follows that 
the water in the chalk is also trough-shaped, and that 
when wells or borings are sunk into it near the centre 
of the London basin, the water tends to rise in the bor- 
ing, and may even overflow at the surface forming true 
Artesian wells. Such wells exist in some of the low 
grounds of the valleys of the Thames, Wandle, and Lee; 
but as a rule, in the chalk borings in the neighbourhood 



WATER. 35 

of London, although the water rises, it does not reach 
the surface. In consequence of the number of borings 
drawing water from the chalk near London, the water 
level has been lowered; and borings have now to be 
made deeper than formerly. Owing to the joints and 
fissures in the chalk allowing a free passage of water, 
the distance which a well or boring drains, when its 
water level is depressed by pumping, is very great; and 
thus borings at considerable distances from one another 
are mutually affected by continued pumping in any one 
of them. If a boring in the chalk should not happen to 
open up any fissures or cracks, it may supply but a 
limited quantity of water, or none at all. 

Beneath the chalk is the upper greensand in thin beds 
(10 to 30 feet) with a very limited outcrop around the 
edge of the chalk ; and beneath this again is the gault, a 
bluish clay with an average thickness of 130 to 200 feet. 
Under the gault lies the lower greensand in very thin 
beds often completely thinned out, and therefore absent. 
Although the greensands are rocks permeable to water, 
neither the upper nor lower beds have yielded water in 
any quantity to deep borings in the neighbourhood of 
London. Their outcrop is very limited, with but a small 
exposure of catchment area for rain ; and these forma- 
tions appear also to thin out considerably in their un- 
derground extensions towards the centre of the basin. 
Near their outcrops in many places the greensands 
furnish abundant supplies of water. 

Several borings made in or near London have passed 
through all the strata above mentioned into the primary 
rocks beneath. Thus, a boring at Meux and Go's 
brewery in Tottenham Court Road passes through made 
ground 22 feet, London clay 64 feet, Lower London Tertiaries 
72 feet, chalk 655 feet, upper greensand 28 feet, gault 160 

D 2 



36 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

feet, lower greensand (?), Jurassic 64 feet, Devonian (purple 
shales) 80 feet, Total depth 1146 feet.* In making 
these borings it is usual to excavate a wide well- hole 
for some depth, from the bottom of which a bore tube of 
small diameter is sunk. The water should rise through 
the bore tube in sufficient volume to form a reservoir in 
the lower part of the well-hole, from which it can be 
pumped to the surface. Boring- tools of large diameter 
have been recently introduced, and these are found less 
costly, whilst the borings are more easily made. At 
some new works in the chalk at Southampton, the bore- 
tubes are six feet in diameter. It has been in many 
cases found that the driving of headings and adits hori- 
zontally below the water level, is more effective in in- 
creasing the yield of wells, than deepening them, as the 
area of collection of water is thereby increased, and 
there is a greater likelihood of striking the fissures from 
which the largest volumes of water are obtained. 

Artesian wells, so-called from the province of Artois in 
France where they have long been in use, are formed 
when a boring taps a subterranean reservoir confined in 
a permeable stratum by impermeable strata above and 
below; the permeable stratum having its outcrops on 
the surface at considerably higher levels than the sur- 
face of the ground where the boring is sunk. The sub- 
terranean reservoir is consequently basin shaped ; and 
the water, when tapped at the lower part of the basin, 
strives to regain its level by flowing up the boring and 
spouting out at its mouth. The waters which feed these 
wells often come from a great distance, the outcrops of 
the permeable strata on each side of the basin, which 
are the catchment areas for the rain, being sometimes 

* Guide to the Geology of London and the Neighbourhood. By W. 
Whitaker, B.A., F.G.S. 



WATER. 37 

60 or 70 miles from the well in a straight line The 
well at Grenelle is 1800 feet deep, giving 656 gallons 
of water in a minute, with a temperature of 27 C. 
Artesian well water is organically very pure, but may 
contain excessive quantities of alkaline salts, or salts 
of lime and magnesia, and it is usually also not well 
aerated. 

The water supplied by deep wells is generally re- 
markably free from organic impurities, even when sunk 
in the midst of large cities. Nitrogen, as nitrates and 
nitrites, is usually present in deep well-waters; the 
other mineral constituents of the well-water depend 
chiefly on the strata through which the water has per- 
colated, and on the solubility of the component ele- 
ments of these strata by water charged with carbonic 
acid. 

The yield of water from a well can be only ascer- 
tained by pumping down to a certain level, and 
observing the length of time required for the water to 
regain its original level. In this country the largest 
supplies of deep well-water are obtained from the chalk, 
the oolite, and the new red sandstone. 



COMPOSITION OF WATER FROM VARIOUS SOURCES. 

THE upland surface waters from the igneous rocks and 
from the metamorphic and Devonian series are very 
generally peaty ; but they are pure and soft, owing to 
the non-absorbent character of the rocks, and their 
freedom from soluble compounds of lime and magnesia. 
The waters from the millstone grits and coal measures, 
with which the manufacturing towns of Lancashire and 
Yorkshire are largely supplied, are also usually peaty, 



38 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

and contain rather more of the salts producing hard- 
ness (chiefly permanent hardness), than do those derived 
from igneous and metamorphic rocks. Mountain lime- 
stone furnishes a somewhat hard and peaty water, as 
does also the calcareous portion of the coal measures. 

The waters from the shallow wells given in the table, 
are all polluted waters polluted by soakage from cess- 
pools and sewers. The animal organic matters, in their 
passage through the soil from the source of pollution to 
the well, are to a certain extent oxidised, and converted 
into nitrates and nitrites. The large amount of chlorine 
in these waters also indicates pollution with urine ; 
whilst the hardness is excessive, and is not derived from 
the strata in which the wells are sunk, but chiefly from 
the sewage pollution, as is clearly shown by the fact 
that the Canterbury well, sunk in chalk, supplies water 
less hard than that from the other two wells given. It 
is worthy of note that the water of the well in Queen's 
Square, Bloomsbury, although horribly polluted, was 
said to be clear and palatable. 

Dolomite or magnesian limestone is a double car- 
bonate of lime and magnesia. It is but little resorted 
to as a water-bearing stratum in Great Britain. The 
Sunderland water, which is derived from it, is very 
pure, but contains a rather large amount of permanent 
hardness. The new red sandstone, being a porous and 
ferruginous rock, acts as a powerful filter and oxidiser 
upon the organic matter in the water that percolates 
through it. It also contains carbonate and sulphate of 
lime binding together the quartz sand of which it is 
largely composed, so that the water derived from it is 
usually moderately hard, but organically very pure. 
The greensands are porous and oxidising strata, con- 
taining, however, protoxide of iron, which exerts a re- 



WATER. 



39 



ducing action upon nitrates and nitrites in the, water, 
converting- them into ammonia, and reducing sulphates 
with the resulting formation of sulphuretted hydrogen. 
Water from the greensands is organically very pure ; 
but as it has often passed over or through chalk, it is 
usually hard. Deep wells in the chalk supply a very 
pure but hard water. The hardness, due to bicarbonate 
of calcium, is temporary, and can be removed by 
boiling. 

All the deep well waters given in the Table, with the 
exception of those from the greensand, contain a con- 
siderable quantity of nitrogen as nitrates and nitrites. 
These constituents are derived by oxidation from the 
organic matters originally present in the surface waters, 
which sink through the porous strata, and are effectually 
purified, before they reach the well, by the length of 
their passage, both horizontally and vertically, through 
these strata. Deep wells, when protected from surface 
drainage in their upper parts, are but rarely polluted, 
even when situated in the centre of towns. But it does 
occasionally happen, that liquid soakage from sewers or 
cesspools finds its way into fissures in chalk or sand- 
stone, which conduct it to the water of the well, un- 
filtered and therefore unpurified, and pregnant with 
danger to the consumers. Deep wells in Liverpool and 
other places have been closed for this reason. 

Spring waters present much the same characteristics 
as the water from deep wells sunk into the same strata 
as those from which the springs issue. The oolitic 
rocks consist largely of carbonate of lime, and being 
porous and absorbent like the chalk, are capable of 
holding enormous volumes of underground water. 
Spring water from the oolite closely resembles spring 
water from the chalk. Springs arising from strata of 



< .1 



W . 



X < 

w 1 











"o 










. 




d 


u 










M 




-e 


d 


*d 


_ 


, 




g 









,0 


g 


oS 

<u 




s 




x 











o 




3 




u 


rt D 


^^ 








rM 






<u o 
















o 










"IVXOX 


JO 


00 


I-, 


Th 


ro 


S 


m 
















w 












M 


VO 


Q 


XNaNvwaad 


1 


00 


J^ 


^_ 


oo 


ro 


c* 
















m 


















AHVHO iK3i 


1 


o 





O 


00 


VO 
00 


.a0 


? 





N 


oo 


M 


P> 


a < 


? 


ft 

P 


! 


P 


1 


P 


*S3 


XlHXIfvt QNV 


O 


o 


g 


S 5 





O 


SV 


NaOOHXI^J 






* 








VINOHIWV 


o 
P 


o 


P 


M 

8 


o 


8 


OINVOHQ 


VO 



P 


1 


o 


1 


ro 

M 





NO3HV3 


ro 








VD 


ro 


eg 




OINVOHQ 


h-4 


M 




ro 








* S i > 


w 


o 


VO 


VO 





Tj- 




H J PL, H 


CSI 




VD 


ro 









O O S M 


* 


ro 


N 


00 


ro 
N 


M 




b 

c 

3 

O 

c 
.S 

to 

OJ 

rt 


rom Igneous Rocks. Sup- 
ply to Devonport from 
Dartmoor. 


rom Metamorphic, Cam- 
brian, Silurian, and De- 
vonian. Thirlmere Lake. 


rom Yoredale and Mill- 
stone Grits and the Coal 
Measures. Sheffield 
water supply. 


rom Mountain Limestone. 
Newcastle water supply. 


rom the calcareous por- 
tion of the Coal Measures. 
Stockton and Middles- 
boro' water supply. 




to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


'o3 
& 


sia^A^DtyanspuBtdn 



a 




rt 




ci 


a" 3 


rt 


'O 


rt 


rt 






1 ai 


3 

g 


rt 
0, 




OJ 

cu 


3 

Z fee 


I 


J3 
\-i 


rt 

OH 


rt 
Cu 






*** 


3 


"c 


| 


C . 




'V 

C . 


** H 


C . 


"G 






^ 4-1 




rt <u 




rt OJ 


.1^ r* . H" 


rt <u 


^ -t-t 


rt 0) 


rt D 








g 


b - 


U 




^ bC 


b - 




b ^ 


- 3 






























.zr ex 


> 


<u 2 




<U j_, 


.SP w O 


<u 2 


.rf 3 o. 


<u 2 


<U w 






C/3 




o 




U 


t/3 


o 


CD 


O 


U 


























Oi 


o- 


s 


ro 




M 


S 


? 





oT 


CO 


OJ 


ro 
>n 


p 

ro 
ro 


i 


t^ 


ro 


P 


0- 


CO 


ro 


0- 


in 


^ 


M 


O 


o 



ro 


M 





ro 


OI 


ro 




ro 


ro 


ro 


M 


"1 


vO 


0, 


m 






^ 





H 





0, 


VO 
in 


cr 


ro 


OJ 


^. 


CO 





fN^ 





If} 


M 


CO 




do 




OJ 


ro 






M 




M 


01 


M 


M 


"* 


8 


CO 

M 





H 


co" 


| 


o 



ro 


vo 


r^ 


VO 

ro 


o 
In 
t^. 


H 


m 




* 


01 




OJ 


M 


M 




VO 


M 


_ 

N 


0, 
ro 
0. 


vO 


VO 

T*- 


1 


VO 
00 




& 


M 


ro 
J*- 


ro 


s 


d 

OJ 


ro 


M 


M 














^ 


M 




J 


{ 


tx 


VO 


M 





OJ 

CO 


8 


OJ 
OI 


ro 


VO 
in 


r<~ 


00 


M 


CO 

M * 


* 


^ 




! 





^ 




^ 




eg 
P 


m 

VO 

M 


m 
in 





o 


CO 

? 


o 





OI 

8 


8 



ro 


\O 

8 


VO 


VO 


M 


o 


ro 


o 


Oi 




OI 


^ 


M 


IT 


in 




P 


O. 
M 


P 


ro 



ro 
O 


8 


8 


P 


P 


M^ 


^2 


CO 


Oi 


OJ 


in 


10 


ro 





o 


VO 


VO 


OJ 


00 








ro 






ro 




01 


f^^. 


CO 




* 


? 


ro 


O 


O 







? 


P 


jr* 




r 1 





VO 


in 

vb 


CO 







OJ 


01 

in 


5. 


VO 
ro 








CO 


M 

0. 


in 

vo 


OJ 


T(- 


ro 


O. 


VO 
ro 


N 


ro 


M 


VO 


cc 
PO 


In the New Red Sand- 
stone. Birmingham. 


C 
rt 



'rt 
U 

C 

o 
OH 

3 >> 

oj 


j 

1 
CO 


In Magnesian Limestone. 
Sunderland water. 


In New Red Sandstone. 
Liverpool, 453 feet deep. 


C 
IU 

s 

i- bo 

J2-^ 

OJ 

CX C 

3 w 
C 


In chalk. Gravesend, 200 
feet deep. 


.fi 
rt 

c 

1 

(U 

I 


1 
$ 



<u 

4-* 


From gravel over London 
clay. Colchester, polluted. 


d drainage water from sew- 
e farms, average composi- 
>n. 


water (average). 
























rt 




ft\MOl 


[*qs 




* s ll a A 


\. d33Q 




5 


>3uiadc 




_1 


ao 






42 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

but small thickness, as surface gravel overlying- clay, 
are liable to pollution from animal sources in the neigh- 
bourhood, from the fact of there not being- sufficient 
thickness of filtering- material to thoroughly oxidise and 
purify the polluting- liquids, before they gain access to 
the subterranean springs. 



QUANTITY. 

The water supplied to a community must be good in 
quality and abundant in quantity. Impure waters are 
liable to cause injury to the health of those who drink 
them ; whilst deficiency of water means want of cleanli- 
ness with its ensuing discomfort and dangers. 

Water is required for the following purposes and in 
the undermentioned quantities for each (representing 
average requirements) : 

Gallons per 
head daily. 

Fluids as drink . . . 0-33 

Cooking 0-75 

Personal ablution . . .5-00 

Utensil and house washing . 3-00 

Clothes washing (laundry) . 3-00 

Water closets. . . .5-00 

Trade and manufacturing . . . . 5 oo 

/'Cleansing streets . . . \ 

,, I Public baths and fountains 

Municipal { _.. ,. , U'CO 

Flushing and cleansing sewers P 

I Extinguishing fires . . .1 



Household 



Total . . . .,<;.. . 27-08 

The quantities of water given above, as required for 
the household, are those which are necessary to main- 



WATER. 43 

tain a good condition of cleanliness. The 5 gallons for 
personal ablution would allow a daily sponge bath for 
each person. If each person has also a weekly general 
bath of from 30 to 40 gallons, 5 gallons extra per head 
daily must be added. 

In towns, 5 gallons per head daily is foun i to be 
ordinarily sufficient for municipal purposes ; and the 
same amount is required besides on the average for 
manufacturing and trade purposes. Water is also re- 
quired for animals drinking, washing, and cleansing 
of stables. About 16 gallons daily for each horse, and 
IO gallons for every cow, are average requirements. 

On the whole, it may be said that not less than 30 
gallons per head daily of the population should be sup- 
plied to every town. There will always be some waste 
in households from leaky taps and fittings, and this 
must be provided for. The greater part of the waste, 
however, very often takes place from the mains, before 
the water reaches the consumer. In some towns it has 
been found that as much as one-half or two-thirds of 
the total water supply leaks out of the mains into the 
soil. 

The amount of water actually utilised in the houses of 
a town varies enormously. In the houses of the poor 
the actual amount used may be only 2 or 3 gallons per 
head daily. This meagre amount is not only, or even 
principally, due to want of personal cleanliness amongst 
the occupants, but is far more often due to the limited 
quantity of water at their disposal, when the supply is 
intermittent and has to be stored in cisterns or water- 
butts, often of a size totally inadequate to the wants of 
the people who take their water from these receptacles. 

The supplies per head in the various towns in this 
country vary greatly. London is said to have a supply 



44 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of from 35 to 40 gallons per head daily; Glasgow 
has 50; Norwich 14^; but it must be remembered 
that these are not the quantities available to the con- 
sumers ; for the amount lost in leakage through the 
mains is generally a considerable proportion of the 
whole supply, and is nearly always an unknown quan- 
tity. 



DISTRIBUTION. 

The system adopted by the ancient Romans for con- 
ducting the water collected at the gathering grounds 
into their cities was the construction of masonry aque- 
ducts built on arches, with a gentle incline to allow of a 
steady flow of water from its source to its outflow in the 
city. The aqueducts usually crossed the valleys on 
raised arches, but the Romans also knew how to con- 
struct inverted siphons of lead piping for the passage 
of the water across valleys. The remains of the reser- 
voirs with which the inverted siphons were connected 
on either side of a valley are still to be seen in the 
neighbourhood of Lyons.* 

The water supplied by public companies to towns in 
this country is now usually distributed from their 
reservoirs through iron pipes laid underground. Cast 
iron mains are subject to much rusting and corrosion, 
especially when the water is soft. Many of these pipes 
have been found much weakened by corrosion at some 
places, and nearly blocked with accumulated rust at 
others, the water also being deteriorated in quality. It 
is now usual to coat these pipes with some material 
which is unacted on by water, such as hot pitch or coal 

* The Water Supply of Ancient Roman Cities, by W. H. Corfield, 
M.A., M.D. 



WATER. 45 

tar, or with a vitreous glaze. The magnetic oxide of 
iron produced on the surface of the metal by Barff's 
process is also coming into use. The practice of calk- 
ing the joints of these pipes with tow or gaskin next the 
interior of the pipe, and then running the joint with 
molten lead, was strongly condemned by the Rivers 
Pollution Commissioners as the water absorbs impuri- 
ties from the tow and hemp. They recommended that 
the pipes should have turned and bored joints, or in the 
case of mains large enough for a man to enter, that the 
inside of the joint should be pointed with Portland 
cement. 

An enormous amount of leakage takes place from 
water companies' mains in many towns, from slight 
settling of the ground after laying, or from the vibration 
of heavy traffic causing fracture of the pipes and joints. 
It has been estimated that in London 15 gallons out of 
the 35 supplied per head daily thus run to waste in the 
soil. The loss is especially great where the supply is 
constant and the mains always kept under pressure. If 
the spots at which leakage occurs could be known, the 
pipes could be easily taken up and repaired, but the 
difficulty is to find where the leaks are. This difficulty 
has been overcome by Mr. Deacon, who has invented a 
meter which can be used as a waste detector. One of 
these meters is placed on each district main; it registers 
the flow of water by day and night, and therefore the 
waste, for the water flowing through the main during 
the dead of night is not used by the consumers, but is 
running to waste. Having localised the waste to the 
district supplied by a district main, the exact spots where 
the leakages are taking place can be determined by the 
vibrations thereby produced in the nearest house com- 
munication-pipes, which can be distinctly heard on 



46 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

applying the ear to the pipe. By this system, to take 
one example only, the Lambeth Water Company has 
reduced its consumption from 34 gallons per head per 
day to 20 gallons, the quantity available to the consumer 
remaining the same. 

The house communication-pipes in nearly all towns 
are of lead, connected with the main by a brass screwed 
ferule. It has been thought that these lead pipes would 
be acted on by water, especially soft water, and that 
there might be danger to the consumers. Such has not 
been found generally to be the case, for although new 
lead pipes are undoubtedly acted on by soft waters, 
an oxide of lead being formed which rapidly dissolves 
again, yet, in the case of peaty waters, there is a deposit 
of vegetable matter as well, which prevents all further 
action of the water upon the metal. The Loch Katrine 
water acts most powerfully on lead, and yet no sym- 
ptoms of lead poisoning have ever been observed 
amongst the population of Glasgow. 

The hard waters, which contain salts of lime and 
magnesia, either have very little solvent action on lead, 
or they quickly coat the metal with sulphate, or basic 
carbonate of lead, which prevent further action. The 
soft, highly oxygenated waters containing organic 
matters, nitrites, nitrates, and chlorides, are those which 
have the most powerful action on lead. Where lead 
poisoning is feared, a block-tin pipe should be substi- 
tuted for the lead pipe. Block-tin pipes enclosed in lead 
pipes are occasionally used ; it is important that there 
should be no crack or fracture of the tin lining, other- 
wise galvanic action will be set up when the pipe is full 
of water, and large quantities of lead will be dissolved. 
Polluted shallow well-waters have been known to have 
a very powerful and persistent solvent action on lead, 



WATER. 47 

probably from their containing excess of carbonic acid, 
which tends to dissolve the coating- of carbonate of lead 
formed in the pipe or cistern. 

It has lately been suggested that the varying powers 
of corroding lead, exhibited by soft waters of apparently 
identical chemical composition, are due to the presence 
or absence of silica in the water. When silica is pre- 
sent, even in the proportion of only half a grain pel 
gallon, the action on lead is said to be very slight 
There must be no excess of alkali in the water, or this 
inhibitive action of silica is not displayed. By passing 
distilled water and other soft waters known to have a 
corrosive action on lead through a filter formed of 
layers of sand, broken flints, and pieces of limestone, 
enough silica is taken up to reduce the lead corrosive 
power to one-thirtieth. Recent experiment, however, 
seems to show that the alkaline carbonate, which is 
taken up from the limestone, may be an even more 
important factor than the silica. The waters of 
Huddersfield and Sheffield which have a considerable 
effect on new lead, have been rendered nearly inactive 
by passing them through filters constructed as above. 
Some of the solvent properties of these waters are 
believed to be due to the presence of peaty acids 
(humic, ulmic, etc.). After the prolonged drought of 
1887, the waters in the Sheffield reservoirs ran very 
low, the peaty acids derived from the gathering 
grounds were not diluted to the usual extent, and a 
severe outbreak of lead poisoning occurred in the town. 
In other cases the acidity which gives the water its lead- 
dissolving powers, may be due to the presence of free 
sulphuric acid formed by oxidation of iron pyrites in the 
water. It has been quite recently suggested by Mr. 
Power, in a report to the Local Government Board, that 



48 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the biological characteristics of a water the presence 
or absence of bacterial organisms may exercise an 
influence over its "plumbo-solvent " properties. There 
is also some evidence to show that leaden pipes are 
much more rapidly corroded when the mains are inter- 
mittently charged, than when kept under constant high 
pressure. 

Water companies supply water to their customers 
either on the constant or the intermittent system. Under 
the former, the mains are kept constantly charged with 
water under pressure, the house pipes consequently are 
also always charged with water, and no storage of 
water on the premises of the consumer is required. 
The only cisterns required in a house supplied with a 
constant service of water, are small cisterns or water- 
waste preventers for flushing water-closets, and a small 
cistern to supply water to the kitchen boiler. Under the 
intermittent system, the flow of water in the mains is 
stopped, except for a short period of every day, by the 
turncock. The house pipes are only charged with 
water when the water is flowing in the main, and conse- 
quently water must be stored for use on the premises 
when the pipes are empty. The merits and drawbacks 
of each system we will now proceed to consider. 

The great fault of the intermittent service is that water 
must be stored on the premises of the consumer. Water 
stored in small receptacles, even under the most favour- 
able circumstances, deteriorates ; it loses its aerated 
character, becomes flat and insipid, and absorbs impuri- 
ties from the air. In the houses of the poor, water is 
often stored in the most filthy receptacles wooden butts 
and tubs rotten and decayed within, or in cisterns ex- 
posed to the air which are the receptacles of all sorts of 
filth and rubbish. No wonder that Sir R. Rawlinson 



WATER. 4Q 

has said, " the water that the poor people get is' con- 
taminated as far as water can be contaminated." Even 
in the better class houses, cisterns are often placed in 
the most improper places, as under stairs or floors, 
where dust and dirt fall into them, or inside water- 
closets, where the air is loaded with foul gases. 

The same cistern is far too frequently used to flush 
water-closets as well as to supply drinking water, which 
may become dangerously polluted in this way (see 
Chapter II.). 

Another method, by which drinking water in cisterns 
becomes liable to a very dangerous pollution, is the 
very general practice of connecting the "standing 
waste" or overflow pipe of a cistern with a drain or 
soilpipe of the house, or with the D trap under a water- 
closet. It may be that the overflow pipe has a S bend 
on it before its junction with the drain, but as the water 
in a trap quickly evaporates when not renewed and 
the water in this trap can only be renewed if the ball- 
cock of the cistern leaks little obstacle is presented to 
the passage of foul, and possibly infected, sewer air 
from drain, soil-pipe, or D trap, up the overflow pipe, 
where it escapes over the water of the cistern. This 
direct connection of the overflow pipe with the drainage 
system is said to be one of the chief causes of the spread 
of typhoid fever in towns (see Chapter II.). 

Besides the danger of pollution of water in cisterns 
by sewer air, dust, soot, and accidental contaminations 
such as dead mice, birds, or cockroaches, the material 
of which the cistern is composed is an important factor 
as regards the purity of the water stored in it. Iron 
cisterns rust and discolour the water; zinc is rapidly 
dissolved by water and produces poisonous effects; lead 
is dissolved at first when the cistern is new, but rapidly 








5O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

becomes coated with carbonate or sulphate of lead when 
the water is hard, or with a carbonate and oxide when 
the water is soft. These deposits form a lining- which 
protect the surface of the metal from further action. It 
is for this reason that the inside of a leaden cistern 
should never be scraped when the cistern is being- 
cleaned out. Galvanized iron is largely used for cis- 
terns; they are generally perfectly safe, but have been 
known to give up zinc to the water. Slate is a good 
material for cisterns, but the cemented joints must not 
be repaired with red lead, when they leak, as they often 
do. Stoneware cisterns, though heavy, are very valu- 
able, as they give up nothing 1 to water. Water should 
never be left in contact with wood, as wood when con- 
stantly wet rapidly rots, and forms a breeding place for 
minute worms and other animal organisms. 

To indicate briefly the conditions under which water 
may be safely stored in houses : (a) the cistern should 
be of stoneware, slate, or galvanised iron ; (b) it should 
be placed in a light and well-ventilated position, and 
should be properly covered; (c) it must not be used to 
flush water-closets, but may supply the "intercepting" 
or waste-preventing cisterns, which should be used for 
this purpose ; (d) the overflow pipe must be carried out 
into the open air to terminate as a warning pipe; it may 
end over the open head of a rain-water pipe if the cis- 
tern is in an upper storey, or over a trapped siphon 
gulley when the cistern is near the ground; (<?) the 
cistern should be cleaned out at regular intervals. 

Cisterns are occasionally used to supply water-closets 
which have regulator valves on the supply pipes. Al- 
though there is but little danger by this arrangement of 
foui air finding its way into the drinking water of the cis- 
tern, as the supply pipe is always full of water unless the 



WATER. 51 

cistern is empty, still it is better to break the connection 
altogether between drinking-water cisterns and water- 
closets. 

Another disadvantage of the intermittent service is 
that the capacity of the cistern is often utterly inade- 
quate especially in poor houses for the wants of the 
people who depend upon it as their only source of 
supply. So great is this deficiency of storage capacity 
in many parts of London, that the water companies 
erect stand-pipes in courts and alleys, which are con- 
nected with a main always under pressure. 

The advantages of an intermittent over a constant 
service are that there is less waste inside houses, and 
that the service of pipes, taps, and fittings need not be 
so strong as for a constant service. This latter point 
has been disputed, as regards the pipes, on the ground 
that there is a greater strain on the pipes where the 
water is suddenly turned on and off with a common 
stopcock, than where it is slowly turned on or off by the 
screw-down tap used with a constant service; but it 
must be remembered that with a constant service the 
water in the house pipes is under a much higher pres- 
sure than where the pipes are connected with a cistern 
in the house. There is no danger, either, with an inter- 
mittent service of the high parts of the town being with- 
out water on account of great waste in the low-lying 
parts, as sometimes occurs with a constant service. 

The great merit of the constant service is that no storage 
is required on the premises of the consumer. The dan- 
gerous and filthy pollutions that are thereby avoided 
have been already considered. More than 150 towns in 
this country, including the greater part of the East End 
of London, have now a constant service of water, and 
the results have been most beneficial to the poor popu- 

2 



52 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

lations of these cities. The water drawn from the taps 
on the house pipes is clear, cool, and sparkling, in the 
same condition as it leaves the water companies' mains, 
and the supply is or should be abundant and never 
failing". 

In actual practice, however, in many cases, these ad- 
vantages have been somewhat mitigated by errors on 
the part of both consumers and water companies. Un- 
less constant inspection is exercised, and the taps and 
fittings in houses frequently supervised, there is great 
waste. This occurs especially in cases where an inter- 
mittent service has been changed to a constant service, 
and the old pipes and fittings have been retained. The 
company, to economise water, shut it off from the house 
pipes, and then no water is obtainable perhaps for 
many hours. 

Not only this, but where water-closets are flushed by 
a pipe and tap direct from the house main, without the 
intervention of a cistern or water-waste preventer a 
not unusual occurrence in poor neighbourhoods there 
is great danger of foul air, or even liquid filth, being 
sucked up into the empty pipe when the tap is left 
unscrewed, and so finding its way into the water mains 
of a district. The suction is due to a partial vacuum 
being created in the water mains when the water is 
turned off, owing to the water finding its way through 
leaky joints into the soil, or from the mains being 
emptied by taps on house pipes at a lower level. Such 
occurrences have given rise to epidemics of enteric 
fever at Croydon, Cambridge (Caius College), Sher- 
borne, and other places. They illustrate the absolute 
necessity of breaking the connection between water- 
closets and water mains by the interposition of a small 
cistern or water-waste preventer. 



WATER. 53 

In other cases the companies try to economise by 
insisting" on the insertion of a throttle of very small 
diameter ( to -^ inch) into the house communication 
pipe, with the result that water merely dribbles out of 
the house taps when they are full on. In any case, 
screw-down taps must be substituted for common taps, 
and a screw-cock must be placed on the house pipe, 
where it enters the premises, to shut off the water in 
case of a pipe bursting. A drip-tap should also be 
placed on a pipe at the lowest part of the system, by 
which it may be emptied during- frost. All the leaden 
service pipes of a house should be strong- (12 H> per 
lineal yard for one inch pipes, and 6 R) per lineal yard 
for half- inch pipes), in order to withstand the constant 
pressure to which they are subjected. If pressure is 
maintained in the mains by pumping-, and not by storage 
in a high level reservoir, greater power must be used in 
the morning of every day ; this being the time when the 
largest quantities of water are drawn for domestic use. 
The difficulties in the way of the adoption of a constant 
service are doubtless great, but they especially great 
waste of water can be overcome by the use of Deacon's 
waste-water meter on the district mains, and by frequent 
supervision of house-taps and fittings. The supply of 
water by meter would tend greatly to check waste, but 
is not advisable in the case of poor populations, as the 
inevitable stinting of water that would follow would 
have great sanitary disadvantages. For trade purposes 
it is the most just and reasonable method. 

There is one danger to which water mains are sub- 
ject, which has not yet been alluded to. If water mains 
and sewers are laid in the same trench, there is a possi- 
bility of foul matters, which have escaped into the soil 
from leaky sewers, being sucked into the water mains 



54 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

during- intermissions in the service. In a similar 
manner, too, water mains may suck in from the surround- 
ing- soil coal-gas which has escaped from leaky gas 
pipes and mains. Such intermissions are the daily 
occurrences of an intermittent service, and are often 
unavoidable with a constant service for executing 
necessary repairs to the pipes. The water and sewer- 
age systems should be kept as far apart as possible. 
With a constant service the mains are always charged 
in case of fire; with an intermittent service much valu- 
able time is often lost in finding the turncock. 



PURIFICATION OF WATER. 

IT is highly desirable that the water supply of a com- 
munity should, as far as possible, be free from all 
foreign and polluting ingredients. Nearly all waters 
derived from natural sources contain such ingredients, 
and the various processes of purification aim at their 
elimination. The foreign ingredients may be divided 
broadly into mineral and organic matters. As we have 
seen, most of the spring and deep well-waters, many 
shallow well-waters, and to a less extent the various 
river waters, contain the salts of lime and magnesia, 
which render these waters hard. The removal of these 
salts, and the production of a softer water, is eminently 
desirable for economic purposes ; and, occasionally, to 
improve the potability and wholesomeness of the water, 
when the salts are in great excess, or are chiefly of the 
kind producing- permanent hardness. The removal of 
the organic matters, suspended or dissolved in water, is 
another and still more important object in any process 
aiming at complete purification. We shall now proceed 



WATER. 55 

first, to the consideration of those processes which' are 
or could be undertaken on a large scale for the purifi- 
cation of water before its distribution to the consumers ; 
and secondly, to such processes of domestic purification 
as may be undertaken on his own premises by the 
consumer, who has received his water from a public 
source, but is not satisfied with its quality, and desires 
if possible its still further purification. 

What should be aimed at is, to procure at its source 
a water sufficiently good to require no artificial purifi- 
cation ; but failing this, the water should be efficiently 
purified before its distribution to the consumers. It is 
certainly not wise to leave the purification to individual 
effort. 

Purification on a large scale. There are several pro- 
cesses (Clark's, Porter-Clark's, Maignen's, Howatson's, 
etc.) which aim at the removal of the mineral matters 
(the salts of lime and magnesia) from a water. The 
fundamental basis of them all is the addition of lime 
water. When a certain quantity of lime water is 
thoroughly mixed with a hard water, it combines with 
the carbonic acid holding the chalk in solution as 
calcium bicarbonate, with the result, that the new car- 
bonates thus formed are precipitated, for they are in- 
soluble in water. In this way chalk well-waters of 20 
of hardness may be reduced to 4 or 5, and Thames 
water (16) to 3 or 4. The hardness, thus got rid of, 
is due to the precipitation of chalk, and chalk alone ; it 
is temporary hardness, and the same effect would be 
produced on the water by an hour's boiling. 

The working of the process (Clark's) may be de- 
scribed shortly as follows: For Thames water, the pro- 
portion of lime to be used should be about 14^ cwt. to 
each million gallons. The lime in the form of quick- 



56 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

lime is first slaked with water in a tank, into which the 
water to be softened is gradually allowed to flow ; 
thorough mixing must be ensured by wooden paddles or 
other mechanical means. The water becomes milky in 
appearance from precipitation of the chalk, and must 
then be allowed to settle for 12 hours, and subsequently 
decanted. Besides chalk, a certain amount of colouring 
and organic matters are removed from the water by this 
process. It is important that uncombined lime should 
not pass out with the purified water, as would be the 
case if lime were added in excess of that required to 
combine with all the carbonic acid holding the chalk in 
solution. To detect uncombined lime, it is only neces- 
sary to add a few drops of a solution of nitrate of silver 
to the treated water in a shallow white dish, when a 
yellow or brownish colour is produced if uncombined 
lime is present, but only a white precipitate of chloride 
of silver if there is none present. 

Lime is also used as the precipitating agent in Porter- 
Clark's process; but the suspended particles of chalk 
are removed, not by settlement, but by filtration through 
a series of linen cloths in a filter press under high pres- 
sure. The process is expeditious, and very effective in re- 
moving lime and suspended matters from the water. It is 
one of the best means of softening water on a large scale. 

Maignen's and Howatson's processes aim at removing 
from the water the salts producing permanent hardness 
(or some of them) as well as chalk. In Howatson's pro- 
cess, a solution of caustic soda is mixed with the water 
to be softened, in addition to slaked lime. The precipi- 
tated salts are removed by settlement as the water 
passes through a series of tanks. How much of the 
permanent hardness is reduced by these processes, we 
have no means of knowing. 



WATER. 57 

The process of filtration through sand or gravel on a 
large scale as carried out by the London Water Com- 
panies has been already described (see p. 15). Sus- 
pended matters both mineral and organic are very effec- 
tually removed by sand filtration. Organic matters in 
solution are, to a small extent, oxidised in their passage 
through the filter bed, when the sand is clean and sharp. 
This action ceases when the particles of sand become 
encrusted with the impurities filtered out of the water; 
it is therefore most effective when the sand on the filter 
beds has just been renewed. 

Magnetic carbide of iron was formerly used at Wake- 
field for the purification of the highly polluted water of 
the river Calder. The filter beds of this material are 
covered with layers of fine or coarse sand of varying 
thickness. The magnetic carbide of iron has a very 
considerable effect in oxidising dissolved organic matters 
in the water, converting them into nitrates and nitrites; 
and this oxidising action is the greater the longer the 
water remains in contact with the particles of magnetic 
carbide, that is to say, the slower the filtration. The 
layers of sand effectually remove the suspended matters 
.in the water, which thus reaches the magnetic carbide 
perfectly clarified. The sand beds must be frequently 
renewed, but the magnetic carbide need never be dis- 
turbed ; all that is required is that the process of filtra- 
tion should be intermittent, to allow of the proper 
aeration of the filter. These properties of magnetic 
carbide of iron render it one of the most valuable filter- 
ing materials now known. It should always be used 
with sand above it to clarify the water, otherwise the 
suspended matters would clog the pores and deteriorate 
the oxidising action of the filter. A very similar ma- 
terial called polarite has lately come into use. It contains 



58 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

about 50 per cent, of magnetic oxide and carbide of 
iron combined with other insoluble mineral matters, and 
is capable of producing" equally good results with those 
above described. 

Spongy iron, which is porous metallic iron, obtained by 
roasting haematite iron ore, has a very similar action on 
dissolved organic matters in water to that exerted by 
magnetic carbide of iron. Its oxidising power is said to 
be due to the fact that it decomposes water into its ele- 
ments hydrogen and oxygen, the latter subsequently 
acting on the organic matters with which it comes into 
contact. Like the magnetic carbide, the longer the 
water remains in contact with its particles, the greater 
the purification ; and like magnetic carbide also, it 
yields nothing to water except a little iron, which may 
be removed by filtration through sand. Spongy iron 
retains its properties for a long period, but requires 
periodical renewal, especially when used as it gene- 
rally is as a mechanical filter for separating sus- 
pended matters from water, as well as a chemical filter. 
Spongy iron separates lead from water, but has no 
effect on other mineral matters. It has been used on 
the large scale at Antwerp and other places, and is only 
inferior to magnetic carbide of iron in its suitability as a 
filtering medium for town water-supplies. 

The property possessed by spongy iron and the mag- 
netic carbide and oxide of yielding nothing to water 
no phosphates or other germ nutrients is a most valu- 
able one; for the water, after filtration, can be stored 
for any length of time without any great deterioration 
from growth of microscopic organisms. The especial 
fitness of the magnetic carbide of iron or of polarite for 
filtering a town water supply on a large scale lies in the 
fact that, when once the beds of these materials are in 



WATER. 59 

st/u, they need never be disturbed or renewed, and thus 
an enormous amount of labour and expense are avoided. 
The aeration by intermittent filtration, which is essential 
for magnetic carbide of iron, if it is to retain its 
oxidising" properties, must not be practised with spongy 
iron as the latter cakes on exposure to the air. 

At Antwerp and other places on the continent scrap- 
iron (Anderson's process) is now being used for filtering 
water on a large scale. The scraps of iron are placed 
in a cylinder, which is caused to revolve on its long 
axis. The inner circumference of the cylinder is pro- 
vided with short curved shelves reaching from end to 
end, which, when the cylinder is revolving, serve to 
direct a shower of iron through the water as it passes 
through the apparatus. The water is then exposed 
to the air by flowing along a trough, so as to cause 
a precipitate (as ferric oxide) of the iron taken up in 
the revolving cylinder, and this precipitate is subse- 
quently removed by filtration through sand. 

Domestic purification. Distillation effects a more com- 
plete purification of water than any other method which 
is practised. If the first portions of the distillate, con- 
taining volatile substances present in the water to be 
distilled, are rejected, a water free from all foreign in- 
gredients is obtained. Its aeration, however, is de- 
ficient, but this aerated quality can easily be acquired 
by allowing the water to flow out of fine holes in the 
bottom of a cask, and pass through the air in finely 
divided streams. The distillation of sea-water is now 
largely carried out on board the ships of H.M. Navy 
and in the large steamships of the mercantile marine. 
As long as there is fuel on board, a most wholesome 
water can be obtained. Distilled water acts very 
readily on metals such as copper, zinc, iron, and lead ; 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

so it is important that the several parts of the distillation 
or condensing- apparatus should not expose these metals 
to the action of the water. 

By boiling water, carbonic acid is driven off with other 
volatile gases dissolved in the water, and chalk (tem- 
porary hardness) is deposited at the bottom of the 
vessel. The water is therefore softened. We have the 
strongest reason for believing' that distillation and boil- 
ing raising the temperature of the water to 212 F. 
effectually destroy all organised living matter in the 
water except the spores of some bacteria. There can 
be little doubt but that the specific poisons of cholera, 
enteric fever, and of other diseases, occasionally propa- 
gated by means of impure drinking water, are effectu- 
ally destroyed by even a few minutes' boiling. The 
spores that resist the temperature of boiling water are, 
seemingly, not disease germs, but merely the immature 
forms of harmless species; for experience has shown 
over and over again that water, and other fluids mixed 
with water, such as milk, in which the existence of poi- 
sons capable of producing enteric fever, cholera, scarlet 
fever, or diphtheria, was almost undoubted, have been 
rendered harmless by a few minutes' boiling. The 
exact temperature at which specific disease poisons are 
destroyed is not known. Possibly at considerable ele- 
vations above the sea level, where water boils at many 
degrees under 212 F., boiling would not destroy patho- 
genic organisms. 

To completely sterilise water or any other fluid, it is 
necessary to boil it, or merely raise the fluid to a tem- 
perature of 212 F. without actual ebullition, for a short 
period (half an hour) on three or four successive days. 
In this way, the spores, which escape destruction by the 
first boiling, have time to develope into adult bacteria, 



WATER. 6l 

which are destroyed by the next boiling-, and so on, 
until all the successive crops are disposed of. Boiled 
water is flat and insipid, and should be aerated before 
being drunk. 

Alum is sometimes employed as a purifying 1 agent. 
It is much used in China, where the turbid waters of the 
large rivers are extensively drunk after the addition of 
a little alum. When added to water containing- chalk 
in solution, it forms a bulky precipitate of aluminium 
hydrate, which falls to the bottom, carrying with it 
suspended and floating- matters. It has little or no 
effect on organic matters in solution in the water. 
About 6 grains of alum to the gallon of water is the 
right proportion. 

Other substances are occasionally added to water, 
such as perchloride of iron, sodium carbonate, and po- 
tassium permanganate. They have but little effect in 
purifying a foul water; and if the water is pure they 
are not wanted. 

Filters. Domestic filters are probably more often a 
source of pollution of the water than otherwise. It is 
usually considered that a filter requires no attention ; 
it is consequently but rarely cleaned; the filtering 
material is never renewed; and its pores become 
clogged with putrescible organic matters, which form a 
suitable nidus for the growth and development of living 
organisms, that contaminate the filtered water. It is 
not unusual, under such circumstances, to find a con- 
siderably larger proportion of organic matter in the 
filtered water than was present before filtration. 

This is especially the case when animal charcoal is 
used as the filtering material. This substance is pre- 
pared by calcining crushed bones in closed vessels ; it 
is extremely porous, and exerts considerable Oxidising 



62 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

action on dissolved organic matters in water, and 
bleaches colouring" matters in solution. These proper- 
ties, however, are evanescent, and rapidly disappear if 
the charcoal is not cleaned or renewed, especially if the 
water filtered through it is somewhat impure. Not only 
this, but the charcoal yields to water phosphate of lime, 
of which it is largely composed. The phosphate favours 
the growth of living organisms; so that water must 
neither be kept too long in the filter, nor must it be 
stored for use after filtration. Animal charcoal has 
very little action on fresh egg-albumen; it has been 
reasoned from this circumstance and probably with 
correctness that animal charcoal does not prevent the 
passage of living disease germs through its substance. 
For these reasons filters composed of animal charcoal, 
whether in loose fragments or in compressed blocks, 
are not at all suited for domestic use. They require 
more care and attention than any domestic filter is 
likely to meet with. 

Silicated carbon and manganous carbon block filters are 
largely used. They consist of animal charcoal com- 
pressed into blocks by admixture with silica or man- 
ganese. They do not yield so much phosphate of lime 
to water as the pure animal charcoal filters ; but they 
tend to become coated with a layer of organic matter 
which clogs the open pores. The block should be 
brushed occasionally to remove the thin film coating it ; 
and every 6 months, at least, should be purified by sub- 
jecting it to a red heat, or by boiling it in a solution of 
Condy's fluid and sulphuric acid. Maigneri s " Filtre 
Rapide " consists of a strainer of asbestos cloth spread 
over a perforated porcelain cone. Powdered animal 
charcoal, or other filtering medium, is laid over the 
strainer.' The delivery of water through this filter is 



WATER. 63 

very rapid, and the asbestos and powder can be'easily 
renewed at very small cost. Animal charcoal filters 
have considerable effect in removing lead from water. 

Domestic filters are also made of spongj> iron, magnetic 
carbide of iron, polarite, and carferal, this latter substance 
being- a mixture of iron, charcoal, and clay. It has 
good oxidising properties, and yields nothing- to water 
which is favourable to organic life; but its lasting 
powers are inferior to spongy iron and magnetic oxide 
and carbide. These three substances are the best 
materials for domestic filters, with which we are now 
acquainted. Bischof's Spongy Iron Filter has come 
largely into use. The water which has filtered through 
the spongy iron, is deprived of the iron it may have 
taken up, by passing it through fine gravel, and pyro- 
lusite a crude oxide of manganese. The spongy iron 
must be kept covered over with water, and should be 
renewed about once a year. The Rivers Pollution 
Commissioners found that spongy iron filters, not only 
considerably reduced the proportion of organic matter 
in water, but also reduced the hardness in some cases 
as much as 50 per cent. They also found that nitrates 
and nitrites were reduced by spongy iron, a small pro- 
portion of their nitrogen being converted into ammonia. 
In this way all evidence of previous sewage or animal 
contamination was destroyed (6th Report). Spongy 
iron and carferal may be used as mechanical filters to 
separate suspended matters, but, as previously explained, 
the magnetic carbide and oxide of iron should be used 
only as a chemical filter, to oxidise or remove dissolved 
impurities in the water. Carferal should be renewed 
about once a year; or it may be purified by exposing it 
to a low red heat. 

In the Pasteur- Chamberland filter, the water, under 



64 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

pressure, is passed through five or six solid porous 
earthenware cylinders. The filtered water is entirely 
freed from all suspended matters, including" all kinds of 
bacterial organisms and their spores. The water is 
therefore sterilised; but the filter acting merely me- 
chanically, there is no alteration in the chemical com- 
position of the water. This filter is employed to sterilise 
pure waters for laboratory purposes, and might be so 
used for domestic purposes where the water is chemi- 
cally pure. The bottom of the filter is connected with a 
main under pressure, the water issuing from the top. 
The essentials of a good filter are : 

1. That every part of the filter shall be easily got at, 
for the purpose of cleaning or renewing the medium. 

2. That the medium have a sufficiently purifying 
power, and be present in sufficient quantity. 

3. That the medium yield nothing to the water that 
may favour the growth of low forms of life. 

4. That the purifying power be reasonably lasting. 

5. That there shall be nothing in the construction of 
the filter itself that shall be capable of undergoing 
putrefaction, or of yielding metallic or other impurities 
to the water. 

6. That the filtering material shall not be able to 
clog, and that the delivery of the water shall be reason- 
ably rapid (Parkes' Practical Hygiene, De Chaumont, ;th 
edit.). 

The filters which fulfil these conditions the best are 
the spongy iron, carferal, and magnetic oxide and 
carbide of iron. The filters formed of loose particles 
give a more rapid delivery of water than the spongy 
iron and block filters. Filters should never be placed 
inside cisterns. In such positions they are neglected, 
their very existence being sometimes forgotten, with the 



WATER. 65 

result that they become excessively foul, and pollute the 
water they are intended to purify. 

Distillation and boiling- are the only methods of ren- 
dering 1 a dangerously polluted water harmless. The 
Rivers Pollution Commissioners have expressed their 
opinion that all the methods of purification by filtration, 
whether carried out by water companies on the large 
scale, or by the consumer on his own premises, are 
inadequate to prevent the propagation of epidemic dis- 
ease by water. Theoretically they may be considered 
some safeguard, but there is "not a tittle of trustworthy 
evidence to support such a view." The epidemic of 
enteric fever at Lausen in Switzerland, where the spe- 
cifically infected water which caused the outbreak, had 
passed underground through the earth for a distance of 
half a mile, shows that filtration, which was found at the 
time sufficient to prevent the passage of finely ground 
flour previously mixed with the water, was not capable 
of destroying or removing the specific disease poison. 
" Nothing short of abandonment of the inexpressibly 
nasty habit of mixing human excrements with our drink- 
ing- water can confer upon us immunity from the propa- 
gation of epidemics through the medium of potable 
water " (6th Report). 



DISEASES PRODUCED BY IMPURE WATER. 

Dyspepsia and diarrhoea. Waters with permanent hard- 
ness exceeding 7 or 8 often cause dyspeptic symptoms 
and diarrhoea, especially amongst those who are not 
used to them. The chlorides, sulphates, and nitrates of 
calcium and magnesium are the injurious salts. Similar 
symptoms are generally produced by drinking brackish 
water drawn from wells near the sea coast. Such water 

F 



66 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

contains a large excess of chlorides of sodium, calcium, 
and magnesium. 

Waters containing- calcium carbonate in solution the 
temporarily hard waters are not in any way injurious 
to health. At the same time there is no reason to 
believe that the chalk waters are at all superior to soft 
waters for drinking-. The idea once entertained that the 
salts in hard water aided the growth and nutrition of 
the bones in children, has been abandoned as untenable. 

Diarrhoea, often of a severe choleraic type with vio- 
lent purging, vomiting, and cramps, is occasionally pro- 
duced by drinking water contaminated with sewage. 
But here again, it is principally amongst those who are 
unaccustomed to the water that these severe symptoms 
occur. Instances have been known where people have 
gone on drinking filthily polluted shallow well-water for 
years with no apparent bad effects. It has even been 
said that sewage waters produce a fattening effect on 
those who drink them. At any rate it seems certain 
that by long habitude the system becomes tolerant of 
many substances in water, which exert a marked effect 
on those who drink them for the first time. Whether 
the choleraic diarrhoea is due to the presence of a living 
germ in the water, or to dead and decayed organic 
matter in solution or suspension, is not yet certain. The 
former view is somewhat favoured by the fact that 
water contaminated, not with actual sewage, but with 
sewer gases as when the overflow pipe of a cistern is 
connected with a drain or sewer often produces severe 
diarrhoea. We cannot suppose that gases qua gases 
can have much effect on the digestive organs, but in 
these gases we know that living micro-organisms may 
be floating, and that they may in this manner gain 
access to the water. 



WATER. 67 

Vegetable matter, as peat, in water, is generally 
harmless. Large excess of such matters, especially 
when decaying, may produce unpleasant symptoms. 

Infantile diarrhoea, which is so prevalent and fatal in 
the large towns of this country in the warmer summer 
months, appears to be due to water pollution in many 
cases. The polluting material, whatever its nature and 
origin, seems to be incapable of producing diarrhoea 
until the temperature of the water, stored in cisterns 
and reservoirs, has risen above 60 F. This fact like- 
wise points to the presence of a living organism in the 
water as the cause of the diarrhoea an organism which 
is inactive at low temperatures, but rapidly multiplies 
and acquires pathogenic properties when a suitable 
temperature is reached. 

The same conditions of drinking water which produce 
diarrhoea in this country, often give rise to dysentery in 
hot climates. Dysentery may also be spread by the 
evacuations of patients suffering from this disease con- 
taminating the water used for drinking. Dysenteric 
evacuations are believed to contain the specific poison 
of the disease. 

Enteric fever. This disease is more often spread by 
the medium of water than in any other way. The con- 
ditions of drinking water which are capable of produc- 
ing dyspepsia, diarrhoea, or dysentery, cannot produce 
enteric fever. Enteric or typhoid fever is a specific 
disease ; it can only be propagated by a specific poison 
contained in the secretions and discharges of a patient 
ill of the disease. It is true that there are some persons 
who hold that enteric fever is not a specific disease and 

* This view is not shared by some army medical officers ; for in 
tropical climates it is often impossible to connect an outbreak of 
typhoid with the contagion of a pre-existing case. 

F2 



68 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

that it can arise de novo, by which is meant that enteric 
fever can be produced in man by the introduction into 
his body of ordinary filth filth which has not received 
the specific typhoid evacuations, but which has by a 
fortuitous combination of circumstances not known and 
not understood, acquired the power of producing- a 
disease which runs a definite course, with definite sym- 
ptoms, and which confers immunity on the person once 
attacked for the rest of his life. The two strongest 
arguments against this view are: (i) many instances 
have been recorded where people even whole villages 
have drunk faecally polluted shallow well-water for 
years with impunity, until a case of enteric fever im- 
ported from without, has introduced the specific poison 
into the water, on which occurrence a wide-spread epi- 
demic has begun; (2) it is practically impossible, when 
the origin of an epidemic of enteric fever is in question, 
to exclude the possibility of the presence of the enteric 
fever virus in the water or other substance credited with 
the outbreak. For all we know to the contrary, the 
specific poison of this disease may remain latent for 
years until some change in its surroundings and en- 
vironment calls it again into a state of activity. Cases 
of the fever which to all appearance have had a de novo 
origin, may have in reality been caused by a long- latent 
poison springing- again into activity. 

Specifically infected sewage appears to have the 
property of infecting the air in contact with it; for out- 
breaks of enteric fever have been traced to pollution of 
water with sewer air, or with sewer gases rising out of a 
sewer into which enteric fever evacuations have been 
discharged. Nearly all the evidence we possess points 
to the possibility of the discharges of a single patient 
infecting an enormous volume of water. This can only 



WATER. 6g 

be explained by supposing 1 that growth and multiplica- 
tion of the specific cause of the disease takes place 
under suitable circumstances outside the body of the 
patient. In the outbreak at Caterham the discharges of 
a single labourer, who had the fever, must have spread 
through and infected an enormous volume of water in 
the wells and adits, which supplied the surrounding 
district. It has been stated that this infected water 
gave no evidence by chemical examination of any con- 
tamination. 

Enteric fever spread by specifically infected water is 
remarkable in having usually a shorter incubation 
period than when spread by air similarly infected, and 
in attacking a larger number of those susceptible per- 
sons who undergo the risk of infection. Enteric fever 
discharges are generally believed to be infectious from 
the first; it is not necessary that decomposition should 
have set in, before their infectious properties are capa- 
ble of development; but on the other hand, putrefactive 
changes do not in any way destroy or mitigate the con- 
tagion. 

Asiatic cholera, This is a specific disease, spread by a 
specific virus contained in the evacuations of a person 
ill of the disease. There is now abundant evidence that 
cholera is often propagated by means of drinking water 
to which the specific disease poison has had access. 
This is not the only mode of spread of the disease, no 
more than it is of enteric fever; but the evidence which 
is constantly accumulating, points strongly to the con- 
clusion that as for enteric fever, so for cholera, speci- 
fically infected drinking water is one of the most 
frequent methods of its propagation. Such evidence 
was first obtained in this country during the cholera 
years of 1848-49, and subsequently during the outbreaks 



70 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of 1854-55, and 1865-66; but even in those parts of 
India where the disease is endemic epidemic outbursts 
occurring from time to time the reports of the sanitary 
officials contain abundant testimony of the intimate re- 
lations subsisting- between cholera outbursts and speci- 
fically polluted drinking water. 

Dr. Buchanan has said of some of the towns in this 
country examined by him, in which extensive sanitary 
improvements had been undertaken, "cholera epidemics 
appear to have been rendered practically harmless;" 
one of the most important of the sanitary improvements 
being the introduction of an abundant supply of pure 
water. The manner in which water becomes infected is 
the same for cholera as for enteric fever. In both cases 
the poison of the disease is contained in the evacuations 
of the patient, and these if discharged into defective 
privies, cesspools, or sewers, may find their way into 
the soil and underground sources of water-supply, or 
may be carried into the streams and rivers from which 
the population derives its drinking water. In India, the 
filthy habits of the natives cause a gross and persistent 
pollution with faecal matters of the drinking water in 
the tanks, from which so large a population obtain their 
entire supply. There is not sufficient evidence to clearly 
decide whether cholera evacuations are infectious from 
the moment of their discharge, or must undergo some 
putrefactive or fermentative changes subsequent to their 
escape from the body, before they can develop their 
contagious properties. 

Ague, malarious fevers. In malarious districts it is not 
generally possible to separate the influence of polluted 
drinking water, as provocative of the disease, from the 
other conditions, possibly equally potent, under which 
the population exists. There can be no doubt, however. 



WATER. 71 

of the authenticity of the many instances recorded 
where ague and remittent or intermittent fevers were 
traced to the drinking- of water derived from marshes, 
or collected in malarious districts ; all other conditions 
known to be provocative of such disorders being absent. 
These malarious waters have always been found to 
contain an excessive quantity of vegetable matter; but 
its exact nature or condition, as regards freshness or 
putridity, has not been ascertained. It seems certain, 
however, that the poison of malaria, whether it be a 
specific microbe or bacillus or not, exists as such in 
nature under conditions of temperature, moisture, soil, 
and vegetation, suitable to its growth ; and that its 
introduction into the human organism is accidental, and 
not necessary to any phase of its existence. It differs 
therefore from the poisons of the true specific diseases, 
which must be derived from a pre-existing case, and 
which, as far as we know, grow and multiply chiefly in 
the human body. Malarious fevers may arise spon- 
taneously amongst a population settled in a hitherto 
uninhabited district; but the true specific diseases would 
not so appear unless introduced from without. 

Yellow fever has been traced to drinking water pol- 
luted with the discharges of people ill of the disease ; 
but other modes of spread are probably equally potent 
and more frequent. 

Diphtheria is not usually propagated through the 
medium of drinking water, but cases favouring such a 
view have been recorded. 

Urinary calculi were at one time supposed to arise 
from the use of hard water, but this view is now gene- 
rally abandoned from want of any definite proof. 

Goitre appears to be due, in many instances, to the 
water used for drinking, but the impurities in the water 



72 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

which favour hypertrophy of the thyroid gland in some 
districts, are not those found in the water of other 
goitrous districts. The carbonates and sulphates of 
lime and magnesia, which are present in the waters of 
some districts, and have been credited with being the 
cause of goitre in those districts, are not found in the 
waters of other districts where goitre prevails. The 
presence of sulphides of iron or copper in water has 
been regarded by some observers as the efficient cause 
of goitre, but not apparently with much reascn. On the 
whole then we shall be justified in concluding, that the 
quality of the drinking water in districts where goitre 
and its allied disease cretinism exist, is only one and 
perhaps not the most potent factor out of many which, 
in combination, are productive of the disease. Further 
researches are required to elucidate this question, which 
is one of great interest. 

Entozoa. The embryos or eggs of the following 
parasites have been found in water, and may be taken 
into the stomach of man, when such water is used for 
drinking. They are: T&nia soh'um, Bothriocephalus 
la/us, Ascaris lumbricoides (Round worms), Oxyuris vermicu- 
laris (Thread worms), Filaria sanguinis hommis, the 
embryos of which are sucked from the blood by 
mosquitos, and then transferred to water, Bilharzia 
hamatobia (?), and Distoma hepaticum (Liver fluke of 
sheep). The guinea worm, Filaria dracunculus, pene- 
trates into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the. legs of 
bathers; whilst leeches may fix themselves in the pharynx 
and cause much haemorrhage. 

Metallic poisoning may be caused by pollution of drink- 
ing water with refuse from trades, and drainage from 
metalliferous mines, or from absorption by water of the 
metals used in the construction of distributing pipes, 



WATER. 73 

tanks, and cisterns. The amounts of mercury, copper, 
zinc, or arsenic, which must be present in the water to 
give rise to symptoms of poisoning-, have not been 
ascertained; as regards lead, as little as T ^ grain per 
gallon may produce plumbism in predisposed persons. 
Jn the case of the poisoning of Louis Philippe's family 
at Claremount, -j 7 n grain of lead was found in each 
gallon of water. 



EXAMINATION OF WATER FOR SANITARY PURPOSES. 

It will be sufficient here briefly to sketch out a short 
scheme for the examination of water for medical and 
sanitary purposes. For further information on this 
subject reference must be made to the larger textbooks. 
The points to which attention should be especially 
directed are: I. Physical examination of the water; 2. 
Microscopical examination of suspended matters and sediment ; 
3. Quantitaiive examination of dissolved solids; 4. Biological 
examination of the water. 

Physical Examination. 

1. Colour. The water should be examined in a two- 
foot tube. Pure waters have a bluey-grey tint. A 
green colour indicates contamination with vegetable 
matter. Light brown, or yellow, is often due to the 
presence of sewage matters, but may be caused by 
peat or salts of iron in the water. 

2. Clearness and turbidity. The purest waters are clear, 
bright, and sparkling. Polluted shallow well-waters 
sometimes exhibit these very qualities. 

3. Taste. Polluted waters often have a disagreeable 
taste; but as often not, if the solids are perfectly dis- 



74 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

solved, and the water is well aerated. Non-aerated 
waters have a flat taste. Iron in very small quantities 
can be tasted, but other salts in water cannot be tasted, 
unless they are present in large proportions. 

4. Smell. The water should be put in a flask and 
gently warmed. Sulphuretted hydrogen, and the gases 
indicative of fermentation or putrefaction may thus be 
recognised. A suspected water may be put in a stop- 
pered flask and kept in a warm place for a few days, to 
observe any changes that may arise, such as turbidity 
from commencing putrefaction. 

The physical characteristics of a water, though by no 
means conclusive in themselves, should not be neglected, 
as they give valuable corroborative evidence to the 
methods of examination presently to be described. 

Microscopical examination of the sediment. The object of 
this examination, in a majority of cases, is to determine 
whether the water has been polluted with sewage or 
domestic refuse. Fibres of cotton, wool, or linen, starch 
cells, macerated paper, human hairs, yellow globular 
masses, and striped muscular fibres (undigested meat) 
with squamous epithelium cells are all indicative of con- 
tamination of the water with human refuse, and most 
probably with sewage. Amongst these matters, and 
feeding on them, will probably be found living organ- 
isms of a low type, such as bacteria (micrococci, bacilli, 
and vibriones), amcebse, and infusoria. These organ- 
isms are not in themselves dangerous, but they indicate 
the presence of matters chiefly organic upon which 
they feed, and amongst them may be those disease-pro- 
ducing organisms which so often find their way into 
sewage (figs. 4 8). 

Pollution of water with vegetable matters may be 
recognised by the presence of vegetable cellular tissue, 



WATER. 75 

fungi and moulds, algae, diatoms, desmids and confervae 
(figs. 9 12). Amongst decaying vegetable matter will 
be found an abundance of microscopic living organisms, 
including bacteria, amoebae, euglenae, infusoria (vorti- 
cellae, paramaecia, coleps, stentor, oxytricha, &c.), 
anguillulae or water worms, rotifera or wheel ani- 
malcules, entomostraca (daphnia pulex (water flea) and 
cyclops quadricornis),. amphipoda, isopoda, and tardi- 
grada (water bears), the larvae of the water gnat, and 
the pupa forms of other insects, besides many others. 

It may be stated that the lowest organisms like 
bacteria, when present in large numbers, indicate that 
putrefactive changes are taking place, and generally 
that the presence of bacteria, amoebae, and infusoria, 
must be regarded with great suspicion, because the 
polluting materials with which they are associated are 
more likely to be dangerous than the vegetable masses 
from ditches and ponds, amongst which the higher 
organisms are usually found. 

The sewage-fungus (Beggiatoa Alba) is found in 
waters containing an abnormal amount of sulphates, 
derived either directly from sewage, or from substances 
used in precipitating sewage, and also from manufactur- 
ing refuse and waste waters. The fungus forms dense 
flocculent greyish-white masses attached to floating 
vegetation or to the banks of the stream. Under the 
microscope it is seen to consist of an immense number 
of colourless threads containing bright strongly refrac- 
tive globular particles of sulphur. The threads branch 
dichotomously (fig. 9). 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 




HKglJ 1 
FIG. 5. 



FIG. 4. 




fltft^s 



FIG. 6. 



FIG. 7. 




SEDIMENT OF A POLLUTED WATER (x about 2oo diameters). 

FIG. 4. A. Epithelial cells. B. Hairs (human). 
FIG. 5. Ova of Tape-Worm (Tasnia solium). 
FIG. 6. Voluntary muscular fibres. 
FIG. 7. Bacteria (Micrococci, Bacilli, Spirilla). 
FIG. 8. Ciliated Infusoria (Vorticella, Paramecium). 



WATER. 




FIG. ir. 

FUNGI AND MOULDS. 

F.T ?r B A eggiato n A1 ^ (Sewage Fungus) x 

Fio. io.-Asperg.llus Glaucus X about 150 diameters. 

FIG. n.-Mucor Mucedo x about 80 diameters 

FIG. i2.-Penicillium Glaucum x about 200 diameters. 



78 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



Quantitative Examination of Dissolved Solids. 

A qualitative examination of the solids dissolved in 
water is not sufficient to enable us to arrive at any 
conclusion as to the purity of a water. Besides the 
different kinds of polluting- or foreign ingredients, we 
must know the amounts of each present in the water, in 
order to sanction or condemn its use for potable pur- 
poses. The points to which the analyst directs, his 
attention in the examination of a water are: 

I. Determination of total solids. Fifty cubic centimetres 
(c.c.) of the water are evaporated to dryness in a 
weighed platinum dish over a water-bath, and the 
residue thus obtained is weighed. This residue may 
then be heated to redness over a flame, when volatile 
salts and organic matters are driven off by the heat, the 
residue which remains consisting entirely of mineral 
matters. 

The French metric system is universally used in quan- 
titative analysis, on account of the greater facilities for 
calculation which it offers over any English system of 
weights or measure; and results are usually expressed 
as parts per 100,000, or as parts per million, which is 
the same thing as milligrammes per litre a litre of 
water consisting of 1000 cubic centimetres, and each 
cubic centimetre of pure water at 4 C. weighing one 
gramme (= 1000 milligrammes). Results are also 
sometimes expressed as grains per gallon ; and as a 
gallon of water weighs 70,000 grains, and 70 c.c. of 
water weigh 70,000 milligrammes, the quantity 70 c.c. 
is a miniature gallon ; and results in milligrammes ob- 
tained by using 70 c.c. may also be expressed as grains 
per gallon. If grains per gallon are multiplied by 



WATER. 7Q 

10, and divided by 7, parts per ioo,OOO are obtained ; 
and conversely, parts per 100,000 may be altered into 
grains per gallon by multiplying- by 7 and dividing 
by 10. 

Chlorine ** The determination of chlorine is very im- 
portant, as an excessive amount of sodic chloride usually 
co- exists with contamination of the water by sewage. 
Sewage derives its chlorine from the urine it contains; 
and sodic chloride being a very soluble salt is not re- 
moved by filtration even through a very considerable 
thickness of earth. 70 c.c. of the water to be examined 
should be placed in a white porcelain dish, and a few 
drops of yellow chromate of potash solution added. A 
standard solution of nitrate of silver (see Appendix) 
should then be dropped in from a burette, until the 
chlorine being all precipitated as silver chloride a red- 
dish colour of silver chromate is just obtained. The 
nitrate of silver solution is made of such strength that 
i c.c. is capable of exactly neutralising one milligramme 
of chlorine. Excessive amounts of chlorine are also 
found in brackish waters from wells near the sea, and in 
certain deep well-waters; so that the presence of excess 
of chlorine must not be taken as absolute proof of 
sewage contamination ; as a confirmatory test it is of 
great value. 

Nitrates and Nitrites. These are the oxidised residues 
of organic matters, possibly derived from an animal 
source (sewage). Their determination is, therefore, a 
point of the greatest importance, for they indicate, either 
a pollution of the water at some remote period with 
possibly dangerous ingredients, or the contamination of 
the water at the present time with partially or completely 
purified sewage. They are found, often in consider- 

* For the preparation of the standard solution see Appendix. 



8O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

able quantities, in deep well or spring- waters, and in 
this case merely indicate the complete purification which 
the water has undergone in its passage from the surface 
to the subterranean reservoirs. In the case of shallow 
well-waters, nitrates and nitrites, if found in association 
with excess of chlorine and ammonia, indicate soakage 
of sewage or animal refuse into the well, more or less 
purified by its passage through the intervening layers 
of earth. At any time, however, the purifying power of 
the filtering earth may be exceeded or overcome, and 
then the liquid filth may pass into the well with its dan- 
gerous ingredients unchanged and unpurified. Nitrates 
and nitrites are not present in raw sewage ; but they are 
found in polluted streams and watercourses, where a 
certain amount of oxidation is always in progress, and 
in the effluent subsoil waters from manured or sewaged 
land. They exist as nitrates and nitrites of lime, soda, 
potash, etc. 

The simplest method of estimating the amount of 
nitrates, is to evaporate 10 c.c. of the water in a small 
platinum dish to dryness. To the residue add 3 c.c. of 
a solution of sulphuric acid and phenol (see Appendix), 
and two drops of pure hydrochloric acid, and then warm 
the dish for 3 minutes over the water bath. Pour the 
contents into a Nessler glass, and neutralise with caustic 
potash solution until effervescence ceases; then fill up 
with distilled water to the 50 c.c. mark, and compare 
the depth of the yellow colour produced with that of a 
test solution, containing one milligramme of nitrate of 
potash in each cubic centimetre, to which the same 
reagents have been added, and which has been sub- 
mitted to a like process. This process of comparison 
by depth of colouration is known as " Nesslerising." 
The yellow colouration is due to the formation of picric 



WATER. 8 1 

acid (tri-nitro phenol), produced by the action of sulpho- 
carbolic acid on nitric acid. To express in terms of 
nitrogen as nitrates, the result must be multiplied by 
0-14. 

Where there is a suspicion of sewage pollution, a 
qualitative examination should be made for phosphates. 
This is readily done by adding to some of the water 
(concentrated if necessary) some molybdate of ammo- 
nium and dilute nitric acid. On boiling, a yellow colour 
appears if phosphates are present. 

Ammonia. The urea of the urine by a process of fer- 
mentative decomposition rapidly becomes carbonate of 
ammonia in sewage. Ammonia will therefore be found 
in all sewage polluted waters, unless the sewage has 
been filtered through a sufficient thickness of soil to 
convert the ammonia by oxidation into nitrates and 
nitrites. A few pure deep well-waters from the chalk 
and greensand are found to contain excess of ammonia; 
but they are remarkably free from organic matters. 
On the other hand sewage polluted shallow well-waters, 
which contain excess of ammonia, contain also an ex- 
cessive amount of organic matters. 

To estimate ammonia, half a litre of the water should 
be distilled in a boiling flask connected with a Graham's 
condenser, until 150 c.c. of distillate have been obtained. 
The first 50 c.c. contain usually three-quarters of the 
entire amount of saline or free ammonia thus driven off; 
so that if the quantity of ammonia in the first 50 c.c. is 
estimated, it is only necessary to add a third of this 
amount to obtain the whole quantity present in half a 
litre of the water; but the method of estimating the 
ammonia in each 50 c.c. of distillate, as it comes over, 
is to be recommended. To each 50 c.c. of distillate 
2 c.c. of Nessler's solution are added, and the yellow 



82 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

colouration produced is compared with that obtained 
from a measured quantity of a standard solution of am- 
monium chloride, each c.c. of which contains croi milli- 
gramme of ammonia. Nessler reagent forms with am- 
monia iodide of tetramercur-ammonium. 

Organic matter. -The quantitative determination of or- 
ganic matters in water is the most important, and at the 
same time the most difficult procedure in water analysis. 
If a water is quite free from any trace of organic 
matter, and the inorganic salts are not of a nature 
injurious to health, the water may be pronounced pure 
and wholesome. Organic matters derived from an 
animal source are dangerous as well as disgusting; the 
slightest trace of such matters in a water should suffice 
to condemn it. Organic matters derived from the 
vegetable world, though often quite harmless, as when 
they exist in the form of peat, should not be disre- 
garded, and their presence in considerable quantity 
should ensure the rejection of the water for drinking 
purposes. 

The distinction between animal and vegetable organic 
matters in a water is often only made with difficulty, if 
at all. Generally it may be said, that when excess of 
organic matter in a water co -exists with excessive total 
solids, chlorine, and ammonia, the source of pollution is 
animal filth or sewage. When, on the other hand, ex- 
cessive organic matter is not accompanied by excessive 
total solids, chlorine, and ammonia, the source of pollu- 
tion is probably vegetable; and this diagnosis may be 
confirmed by the results of physical examination of the 
water, and by microscopic examination of the suspended 
matters and sediment. 

The methods of estimating the amount of organic 
natters in a water only give approximate results; they 






WATER. 83 

are not capable of determining" the total amount of such 
matters in a water. This is a great drawback, as the 
results of one process, though perfectly comparable in 
themselves, cannot be compared with the results of 
another process. There are three processes usually 
resorted to by water analysts; (a) the albuminoid am- 
monia process (Wanklyn's) ; (b) the permanganate process ; 
(c) the organic carbon and organic nitrogen process (Frank- 
land's). 

The albuminoid ammonia process is simple and effective. 
To the water remaining in the flask, after the distillation 
of 150 c.c. for the estimation of ammonia (free or 
saline), 50 c.c. of a strongly alkaline solution of per- 
manganate of potassium is added, and the distillation is 
then continued, each 50 c.c. of distillate having- its 
ammonia estimated until no more comes over. The 
ammonia is the result of the action of the caustic per- 
manganate solution at a boiling 1 temperature on the 
nitrogenous organic matters (or some of them) in the 
water. Urea is not acted on by the solution; but this 
substance is not found in sewage unless very fresh, and 
is never found in sewage polluted water. It is obvious 
that all the free or saline ammonia must be driven off 
by distillation before commencing" the process for albu- 
minoid ammonia. Ammonia and albuminoid ammonia 
are usually expressed as milligrammes per litre, or 
parts per million. 

By the permanganate process, the oxidisable matters in 
water are determined in terms of the oxygen required 
for their oxidation. These matters include oxidisable 
organic matters, nitrites, ferrous salts, and sulphuretted 
hydrogen. Sulphuretted hydrogen can be dispelled by 
heating the water, and the salts of iron can be at once 
recognised by the chalybeate taste of the water ; usually 

G2 



84 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

they may be disregarded. To estimate, therefore, the 
oxidisable organic matters and nitrites, 250 c.c. of the 
water are taken, and 3 c.c. of sulphuric acid added; the 
permanganate of potassium solution, of a strength 
capable of yielding O'l milligramme of oxygen for each 
c.c., is dropped in from a burette until a pink colour is 
established. The flask or beaker is then warmed until 
a temperature of 140 F. is reached, and more perman- 
ganate solution is dropped in until the pink colour is 
permanent for a few (loor 15) minutes. The number 
of milligrammes of oxygen required for the oxidation of 
oxidisable matters can thus be determined from the 
number of c.c's. of permanganate solution used. 

If the acidified water is boiled for 20 minutes before 
adding the permanganate solution, the nitrous acid is 
driven off, and on cooling to 140 F., the oxidisable 
organic matter, in terms of oxygen required for its 
oxidation, may be determined. The nitrous acid, in 
terms of oxygen required for its oxidation, may be de- 
termined by calculation of the difference between the 
results of the two preceding processes. 

The permanganate process is simple and convenient, 
but the results obtained by it can only approximately 
represent the total amount of organic matters in any 
sample of water, for we do not know what proportion 
the oxidisable organic matters bear to the total organic 
matters in the water, that is to say, we do not know 
how much of the organic matter in any sample of water 
is oxidisable by an acid permanganate of potassium 
solution, and how much is not. Nitrous acid is believed 
to be the first stage in the nitrification of organic matters 
and ammonia, and to indicate, therefore, incomplete 
oxidation and possible danger. 

In the Frankland process, the water is evaporated, and 



WATER. 85 

the residue burnt with oxide of copper. Nitrogen and 
carbonic acid gases are set free from the organic 
matters, and their volumes respectively measured. This 
process is extremely difficult and complex, and except 
in the hands of the most expert is now generally held 
to give no more trustworthy results than the albuminoid 
ammonia process. In fact it has been asserted that the 
error of experiment is often greater than the total 
quantity of the gases to be measured. It is desirable, 
however, to have some knowledge of the manner in 
which the results are stated, chiefly because the analyses 
in the Reports of the Rivers Pollution Commission the 
most interesting and exhaustive reports on water sup- 
plies ever compiled were conducted by this process 
(see p. 40). 

The Commissioners stated that good drinking water 
should not contain more than 0*2 part of organic car- 
bon, and o - O2 part of organic nitrogen per 100,000 parts 
of the water. The ratio of organic carbon to organic 
nitrogen is especially important a high ratio indicating 
a vegetable origin of the organic matter, whilst a low 
ratio indicates an animal or sewage origin. 

T A , . organic carbon . , , 

In sewage. the ratio is less than f, 

organic nitrogen 

whilst in pure peaty waters it may be 2 T . The ratio for 
drinking water should not be less than f- or |. In sew- 
age of average strength the organic carbon amounts to 
4 parts per 100,000, and the organic nitrogen to 2 parts 
per 100,000, the ratio being f-. The "total combined 
nitrogen" which forms one column of the table of 
analyses on page 40 is obtained by adding together 
organic nitrogen, nitrogen as nitrates and nitrites, and 
nitrogen as ammonia, the result being" expressed as 
parts per 100,000. 



86 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The column of "previous sewage or animal contam- 
ination," which is given in the analytical results of the 
Rivers Pollution Commissioners has been omitted from 
the table on p. 40, as being not only a useless but also a 
misleading superfluity. This is plainly apparent from 
its construction which is as follows: the sum of the 
quantities of nitrogen present as nitrates, nitrites, and 
ammonia, per 100,000 parts, is multiplied by IO,OOO, and 
320 (for the ammonia present in rain) is subtracted from 
the result, which represents the mineral residue of the 
previous sewage or animal contamination of the water 
in terms of London sewage, assumed to contain 10 parts 
of total combined nitrogen (chiefly organic nitrogen) per 
iOO,oco parts. It will be readily understood that by 
such a calculation, some of the purest spring and deep 
well-waters which are rich in nitrates or ammonia, ex- 
hibit astonishing numbers indicative of the grossest 
previous sewage contamination a contamination to 
which they have in fact never been subject. 

Hardness. Hardness may be due to salts of lime or 
magnesia, to volatile CO a , or fixed acid. To estimate 
the total hardness, 70 c.c. of the water are placed in a 
stoppered bottle, and soap solution is run in until, on 
shaking, a lather is formed which is permanent for five 
minutes. The soap solution is made of such a strength 
that i c.c. is capable of exactly neutralising i milli- 
gramme of carbonate of lime. The number of c.c. of 
soap solution required to form a lather in the 70 c.c. of 
water, is the number of milligrammes of carbonate of 
lime in the 70 c.c. ; or, what we have seen to be the 
same thing, the number of grains per gallon, after de- 
ducting i c.c. which is required to form a lather in 
70 c.c. of distilled water containing no lime. If the 
same process is gone through with water which has 



WATER. 87 

been boiled for some time, and then made up to its ori- 
ginal volume with distilled water, the permanent hardness 
can be estimated, and the temporary hardness by deduct- 
ing this result from the total hardness. The hardness due 
to mag-nesian salts can be estimated separately with the 
soap solution after precipitating- all the lime salts with 
oxalate of ammonia. Degrees of hardness on Clark's 
scale correspond with the number of grains per gallon 
of the lime and other salts, producing hardness. 

Metals. To some of the water in a porcelain dish, a 
drop of sulphide of ammonium should be added. If 
iron, lead, or copper, is present, even in very slight 
traces, a dark colouration will be imparted to the water. 
If it is iron, the addition of a few drops of hydrochloric 
acid will cause the colour to disappear ; if lead or copper 
is present, the colour remains. The presence of even 
a trace of either of these two metals in a water should 
be sufficient to condemn it. Iron is harmless, and may 
be tolerated in a water on the score of health. To de- 
tect arsenic in a water, large quantities must be eva- 
porated down, and the residue put into a Marsh's 
apparatus. The best confirmatory tests are: For 
iron, the formation of prussian blue on adding to the 
water a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. For 
lead, the formation of yellow chromate of lead on adding 
a solution of chromate of potassium ; and for copper, the 
formation of the bronze-coloured ferrocyanide of copper 
on adding a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. The 
iron and copper confirmatory tests are rendered more 
certain by the addition of a drop of hydrochloric acid. 

Zinc is likely to be taken up by waters that have 
been passed through pipes of this metal or of galvanised 
iron, or have been stored in cisterns of similar material. 
When in excess of one or two grains per gallon of water 



88 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



it may produce symptoms of poisoning". It can be de- 
tected, after concentration of the water, by the formation 
of the white zinc sulphide on adding ammonium sulphide, 
AmCl, and AmHO. 

It may be as well here to give a few samples of ana- 
lytical results as usually expressed by chemists using- the 
Wanklyn process. 





GRAINS PER GALLON 


PARTS PER MILLION 


DE- 








* 


'* 












*$ 










TOTAL 
SOLID 
RESIDUE. 


CHLO- 
RINE. 


NITROGEN 
NITRATES 
NITRITE 


FREE OR 
SALINE 
AMMONIA. 


ALBU- 
MINOID 
AMMONIA. 


HARD- 
NESS 


New River 
Company, fil- 


I 7 -6 


1-2 


0-15 


O'O2 


0*04 


15 


tered. 














Unfiltered 














Thames water 


32-0 


r8 


O.222 


0-04 


0-28 


16 


at Hampton. 














Polluted shal- 
low well- water. 


96-5 


10-5 


3-50 


6'oo 


0-31 


42 


Sewage efflu- 














ent from preci- 


80-5 


II-2 





18-5 


3*86 


2 3 


pitation works. 















The quantities are given as grains per gallon, with 
the exception of the ammonias which are expressed as 
parts per million. It may be stated generally, that the 
albuminoid ammonia should not exceed 0*08 parts per 
million in a good drinking 1 water. In the unfiltered 
Thames water, the excess of albuminoid ammonia with- 
out any excess of free ammonia or chlorine, points to 
vegetable contamination. The pollution of the shallow 
well-water is evidently caused by sewage, as shown by 



WATER. 89 

excess of chlorine, nitrogen as nitrates, and free 'am- 
monia. 



Biological Examination. 



Inasmuch as the chemical methods of analysis can 
only determine the presence and amount of organic 
matters in water, and cannot determine their quality, 
nor separate living and possibly actively dangerous 
organisms from dead and inactive matter, it has been 
thought by many that those methods of cultivating fungi 
and bacteria and their spores on sterilised nutrient 
media, which were first introduced by Koch, would 
afford valuable evidence of the possibly dangerous 
qualities of a water, and might come in time to super- 
sede chemical analysis altogether. 

Such has not been found to be the case, and the rea- 
son is not far to seek. In the first place the specific 
micro-organisms of those diseases which are occasion- 
ally spread by polluted water, have not yet been isolated 
and identified. If there be such organisms, they cannot 
be separated from the crowds of harmless species which 
are found in greater or less abundance in all natural 
waters. There is, therefore, at present a complete failure 
to identify the actual agents of disease. The finding of 
a greater or less number of non-pathogenic bacteria or 
fungi in a water simply gives confirmatory evidence 
if any such was wanted of the presence of a larger or 
smaller amount of organic matter, ammonia, nitrates, or 
phosphates in the water, which form a suitable pabulum 
for bacterial germs. 

Chemically pure waters are found to contain very 
few bacteria or fungi, whilst impure waters often swarm 



QO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

with them. They increase in numbers if water is stored 
for any length of time increasing at the expense of the 
ammonia and other sources of energy in the water. 
They are largely removed by filtration through clean 
sand and good domestic filters, just as other impurities 
are, but perhaps to a greater extent. 

On the whole, then, we must conclude that the biologi- 
cal test is valuable only for the confirmation it gives of 
the results of chemical analysis, and not because it is 
capable of throwing any further light on the dangerous 
or harmless qualities of a water. Under ordinary 
natural conditions, waters found to be chemically pure 
are not capable of causing disease ; and all waters, 
with but very few exceptions, which have caused dis- 
ease have been found by chemical examination to be 
polluted often grossly polluted. Distilled water infini- 
tesimally polluted with a few grains of enteric fever 
stool, is not a water contaminated under ordinary 
natural conditions; and it would probably be passed as 
pure and wholesome by the biologist, who had counted 
the number of bacteria in a cubic centimetre, as well as 
by the chemist who failed to find evidence of organic 
pollution sufficient to condemn it. 

As usually carried out the biological examination is 
conducted as follows : A measured quantity of the 
water I c.c. or a fraction of I c.c. is mixed with a 
test-tube-full of liquefied sterilised nutrient gelatine, 
which is then poured on a glass plate and placed under 
a bell-jar, with suitable precautions to prevent the 
entrance of atmospheric spores. After a few days the 
germs or spores are found to have developed into 
recognisable colonies, which may be counted and 
differentiated by their colour, their mode of growth, the 
liquefaction they produce in the gelatine, and other 



WATER. QI 

characteristics. Under the microscope the colonies may 
be separated into the different varieties of bacteria, 
moulds, and fungi ; and each colony may subsequently 
be submitted to cultivation in test-tubes of gelatine, 
agar-agar, blood serum, &c. 



Q2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE COLLECTION, REMOVAL, AND DISPOSAL OF EX- 
CRETAL AND OTHER REFUSE. 

IN any community of persons, arrangements must be 
made for the collection and removal of their excretal 
refuse (faeces and urine), of the waste waters from 
houses, and of the dry refuse (ashes, dust, and refuse 
food). In towns, the solid and liquid refuse matters 
from stables, cowsheds, and slaughter-houses, street 
sweepings, and the waste waters from works and 
manufactories must also be removed. Part of this 
refuse, viz., human faeces and dung of animals, street 
sweepings, ashes, dust, and refuse food, is in a solid and 
more or less dry condition, whilst the remainder is 
liquid. 

In all towns the collection and removal of dung, ashes, 
dust, refuse food, and street sweepings is performed by 
mechanical labour, the various processes above men- 
tioned being included in the term scavenging; whilst in 
some, human faeces and a certain amount of urine are 
also removed by this method, after being deposited in 
privies, cesspools, or dry closets, on what is known as 
the Conservancy System. In a large majority of the towns 
of this country, at the present time, human faeces with 
the whole of the urine are removed with the liquid 
refuse on what is known as the Water- Carriage System 
a system of drains and sewers for the passage of the 
refuse in a liquid condition to some spot outside the 
town. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 93 

On the efficiency with which refuse matters, and 
especially human excretal refuse, is removed from 
towns, their health largely depends. The Reports of 
the Health of Towns Commission and the Sewage of 
Towns Commission, and the Reports of the Medical 
Officers of the Privy Conncil and Local Government 
Board give amply sufficient evidence on this head. 
The health of nearly all towns in this country and 
abroad has very much improved, and the death-rates 
have been permanently lowered since the completion of 
works of sewerage with, however, in many instances 
the introduction of a better water supply. 

Removal of Domestic Dry Refuse. Household dust, 
ashes and cinders from fires, scraps of waste food, and 
other refuse matters must be stored on the premises of 
the house until they can be removed by the sanitary 
authority or by the dust contractor. The dry refuse, 
therefore, consists partly of mineral matters, but to a con- 
siderable extent of organic substances derived from the 
waste scraps of food. These latter, being prone to 
undergo decomposition when stored in dust-bins or 
other receptacles, are very liable to become a source of 
nuisance. It is, therefore, very desirable that the 
quantity of organic refuse to be stored on the house 
premises should be reduced as far as possible ; and 
this may be accomplished by burning the more easily 
destructible matters, such as potato peelings and other 
food scraps, in the kitchen fire at the end of every day. 

The old-fashioned brick dust-bin is now being largely 
replaced by galvanized iron pails or boxes, with well- 
fitting metallic covers, to ensure dryness of the contents 
and their protection from rain. This is an important 
point, as the presence of moisture hastens putrefaction 
and the formation of offensive gases in the refuse. The 



94 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

non-absorbent walls of iron pails, and the ease with 
which they can be moved and carried out to the dust- 
carts, constitute very great advantages over the brick 
dust-bins, whose walls become saturated with decaying 
matters, and whose contents have to be shovelled out at 
each visit of the scavengers. The contents of the dust- 
bins or pails should be removed at least twice a week ; 
in summer a daily removal is desirable, but is not 
usually practicable. Specially constructed carts pro- 
vided with covers should be employed to convey dust 
refuse through the streets. 

The best method of getting- rid of dust-bin refuse is to 
burn it in a Destructor furnace. The proportion of 
cinders in the refuse is sufficient to ensure complete 
combustion in a properly constructed furnace, which is 
also fitted with a Fume Cremator a coke furnace at 
the foot of the chimney, through which all the smoke 
from the Destructor furnace must pass before it escapes 
up the chimney flue. In the Fume Cremator incom- 
pletely burned vapours and fine dust particles, which 
are liable to escape into the air from the Destructor 
furnace, are completely burned up before they can enter 
the chimney flue. In the Destructor at Bradford, steam 
injections are also used to increase the draught in the 
furnace and ensure more rapid combustion. The steam, 
which is generated in a boiler heated by the combustion 
of the refuse, is jetted into the furnace, and causes a 
great inrush of air through the fire-bars. As now 
carried out at Bradford and other towns, dust-bin refuse 
can be completely destroyed without the production of 
any nuisance in the neighbourhood of the Destructor ; 
and the heat generated by the combustion can be made 
available for raising steam in boilers for manufacturing 
manure or for municipal purposes, whilst the clinkers 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 95 

withdrawn from the furnace can be ground down, and 
converted into mortar or concrete. 

Where destruction by heat is not attempted, local 
authorities dispose of dust refuse by selling- it to brick 
makers, who burn it in the open air and create a most 
offensive nuisance, or to builders, who use it to fill 
up excavations on which houses are to be built; or 
else the refuse is carted to a sorting- yard where it is 
separated into breeze, (cinders and small coal), hardcore, 
(bottles, crockery, and metal pots), and soft core, 
(animal and vegetable refuse and rags). The breeze is 
sold to brick makers ; the hard core is used for road 
making ; and the soft core is mixed with stable manure 
and sent into the country. The whole process is a 
noxious one, and productive of serious nuisance in the 
vicinity. 

Solid and Liquid Excreta. An adult male, living- on a 
mixed diet of animal and vegetable food, passes daily 
4 ounces, by weight, of solid, and 50 fluid ounces of 
liquid excreta. The solid excreta of women and of 
children under twelve years are in amount considerably 
less, probably, on an average, not much more than one^ 
half the above quantities. If all ages and both sexes 
are considered, the daily amount of excreta per head of 
a mixed population may be taken as 2j ounces of faeces, 
and 40 fluid ounces of urine (Parkes'' Practical Hygiene, 
7th edit.). PVesh fasces contain on the average 23*4 
per cent, of dry solids, and fresh urine contains 42 per 
cent, of which rather more than half (54 per cent.) is 
urea. 

The quantity of nitrogen voided per head daily in 
the excreta of a mixed population was calculated by the 
late Prof. Parkes as being- 153 grains, equal to 186 
grains of ammonia. The other valuable constituents of 



96 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the excreta are phosphates and potash. A given 
weight of faeces is more valuable than the same weight 
of urine, in the proportion of about 10 to 6 ; but the 
weight of urine passed daily (in a mixed population) is 
about sixteen times as great as that of the faeces, con- 
sequently the total urine is worth about ten times as 
much as the total faeces. The total Nitrogen voided 
annually by an individual of a mixed population is 
taken as being equivalent to 10 tt> of ammonia, worth 
6s. 8d. Higher values have been given by various 
authorities, but it is better to take the lower estimated 
value, especially as it was stated by the late Dr. 
Voelcker that nitrogenous organic matters (in which 
form the nitrogen of sewage principally exists) is worth 
considerably less than ready-made ammoniacal salts. 
The value of potash is 2d. per Ib, and of phosphate of 
lime id. per lb, but the amounts of these constituents in 
the excreta are very small. 

The estimated or theoretical money value, then, of 
the excretal refuse of an individual of a mixed popula- 
tion lor one year may be taken as being from 6s. 8d. to 
7$. It is very evident that it must be impossible to 
realise practically any such value, because it is im- 
possible to collect the whole of the urine and faeces 
pure, i.e., unmixed with other substances, which greatly 
detract from the value because they are agriculturally 
worthless. 

Faeces and urine, especially when mixed, as in cess- 
pools, privies, and sewers, rapidly undergo putrefactive 
changes, giving rise to the formation of foetid gases 
(organic vapours, ammonium sulphide, etc.). The urea 
(CO(NH a ) a ) of the urine decomposes, giving rise to 
carbonate of ammonia CO(NH 2 ) 3 + 2H 3 O = (NH 4 ) 2 CO 3 ; 
and so rapid is this change, that it is probable that even 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. Q7 

in the best sewered town, all the urea of the urine in 
the sewage has been converted into ammonia before the 
arrival of the sewage at the outfall. 

House waste wafers. In these are included the waste 
waters from kitchens, which are highly charged with 
decomposable organic matters and grease, and slop- 
waters containing urine, soap, and the dirt from the sur- 
face of the body and from clothes. These waste waters, 
when mixed with the liquid refuse or drainage of 
stables, cowsheds, and slaughter-houses, with the wash- 
ings from the street surfaces, with the urine from public 
urinals, and with the waste liquors from manufactories, 
form the sewage of the non-water-closeted or midden 
towns. The drainage from stables is very rich in urine 
(one horse excretes about 15 times as much urine as an 
adult man); and the waste liquors from manufactories 
are often excessively foul. 

It is not surprising then to find that such sewage is 
quite as foul as that of water-closeted towns, which 
contains the solid human excreta as well. The pu- 
trescible organic matters in suspension are greater in 
midden than in water-closet sewage, whilst the organic 
matters in solution are but slightly less in the former 
than in the latter. The Rivers Pollution Commissioners 
stated in their First Report, that " for agricultural pur- 
poses, IO tons of average water-closet sewage, may, in 
round numbers, be taken to be equal to 12 tons of aver- 
age privy sewage," i e., sewage of privy towns, where 
human faecal matters are kept out of the sewers. Such 
being the case, it is necessary to bear in mind, that in 
towns where there are middens or some form of dry 

* The waste liquor from flannel washing is said to contain twenty 
times more valuable manurial constituents than London sewage, 
Rivers Pollution Commission, 3rd Report. 

H 



98 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

closet for the collection of faecal matters, there is also 
a liquid sewage to be conveyed away from the houses 
by drains and from the town by sewers, which is too im- 
pure to be admitted into a stream, and which must 
therefore be purified before being 1 so discharged. 



CONSERVANCY SYSTEMS. 

Middens. The system which formerly prevailed, in 
many towns in this country where there was any sys- 
tem at all was that of privies, midden pits, and cess- 
pools, often open to the air and unprotected from rain, 
and situated in the yards and areas about houses. These 
receptacles were generally mere holes dug in the 
ground ; and their contents overflowed, saturating the 
air with noxious effluvia, or percolated into the soil 
around the houses, and poisoned the water in the neigh- 
bouring wells. 

At the present time, in those towns which still retain 
conservancy systems, the middens are required to be 
constructed according to certain definite rules. The 
model bye-laws of the Local Government Board with 
regard to the construction of privies and middens in new 
buildings require that: the privy must be at least 6 
feet away from any dwelling, and 40 or 50 feet away 
from any well, spring, or stream ; means of access must 
be provided for the scavenger, so that the filth need not 
be carried through a dwelling; the privy must be roofed 
to keep out rain, and provided with ventilating openings 
as near the top as practicable ; that part of the floor. 
of the privy which is not under the seat, must be not 
less than 6 inches above the level of the adjoining 

* See Corfield's Treatment and Utilisation of Sewage, 3rd edition. 






DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. QQ 

V- 

ground, must be flagged or paved with hard tiles, and 
must have an inclination towards the door of the privy 
of half an inch to the foot; the capacity of the re- 
ceptacle under the seat of the privy must not exceed 8 
cubic feet a weekly removal is then necessary ; the 
floor of this receptacle must be in every part at least 3 
inches above the level of the adjoining ground; the 
sides and floor of this receptacle must be constructed of 
impermeable materials they may be flagged or as- 
phalted, or constructed of Q-inch brickwork rendered in 
cement; the seat may be hinged, or other means of 
access to the contents of the privy must be provided ; 
and the receptacle must not communicate with any drain 
or sewer. 

With middens constructed and managed according to 
these rules, there would be no danger of percolation of 
liquid filth into the soil around houses and in the neigh- 
bourhood of wells; and there would not be much 
pollution of the air from the excreta except during 
removal if their dryness was ensured by the proper 
application to them of ashes and cinders. The success 
of the system depends to a large extent on efficient 
inspection by the nuisance inspector, and on proper 
scavenging arrangements. 

Cesspools. These receptacles for filth are so evidently 
undesirable in the neighbourhood of houses, that it is 
the practice now in nearly all towns to fill them in and 
provide more suitable means for the collection of ex- 
creta. Until the repeal, in 1815, of the law which pro- 
hibited the passage of sewage from houses into the 
sewers, nearly every large house in a town had a 
cesspool on the premises, often of enormous size and 
situated in the basement. When, in the year 1847, i* 
became compulsory to drain houses into sewers, many 

H2 



IOO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of these cesspools were filled up or otherwise abolished: 
but many of them escaped observation, and to the pre- 
sent day it is no unusual thing to find one or more cess- 
pools in the basements of town houses, of whose exist- 
ence the owners or occupiers are profoundly ignorant. 

In country districts where there are no sewers, cess- 
pools are still largely used for the reception of human 
excreta and waste waters. If dug in a porous soil, 
such as gravel or chalk, they are too frequently con- 
structed to allow all the liquid filth to percolate through 
their walls into the soil, with the almost certain danger 
of polluting wells, springs, and other sources of under- 
ground water supply. When the liquids escape thus 
easily, the cesspool but very rarely requires emptying, 
and this fact constitutes the rai'son d'etre of the porous 
cesspool. 

The model bye-laws of the Local Government Board 
for new buildings, require that the cesspool must be at 
least 50 feet away from a dwelling, and 60 to 80 feet 
distant from a well, spring, or stream. It must have no 
communication with a drain or sewer (in sewered dis- 
tricts), its walls and floor must be constructed of good 
brickwork in cement, rendered inside with cement, and 
with a backing of at least 9 inches of well puddled clay 
around and beneath the brickwork. The top of the 
cesspool must be arched over and means of ventilation 
provided. 

Constructed in accordance with these rules, the pos- 
sible dangers of cesspools are reduced to a minimum. 
The principle, however, which is bad, remains the same : 
for it is not desirable to retain in any receptacle, how- 
ever well constructed, a large collection of solid and 
liquid excretal refuse, there to undergo putrefaction 
with the formation of offensive gases. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. IOI 

In this country cesspools are generally emptied by 
hand labour a disgusting- and dangerous task or by 
pumping into a night-soil cart. On the continent, and 
especially in Paris where nearly every house has its 
"fosse permanente" in the courtyard the cesspools are 
emptied by pneumatic pressure. A flexible tube, con- 
nected with a tub or "tonneau" exhausted of air by an 
air purnp, is thrust down to the bottom of the cesspool. 
On turning a valve the pressure of the atmosphere forces 
the contents up into the tonneau. This method is said 
not to give rise to any nuisance comparable with that 
due to emptying the cesspool by hand labour. 

The Pail System. In this system the excreta are re- 
ceived into movable receptacles, such as pails and tubs. 
Removal is thereby greatly facilitated, and there is no 
pollution of the air, from disturbance of contents, as 
there always must be when the contents of middens are 
taken away. In some towns iron pails are used, in 
others tarred oak pails. The capacity of the pail 
should not be greater than 2 cubic feet. Both kinds 
should be provided with a close-fitting lid, to be ad- 
justed before removal of the pail by the scavenger. 

The structure of the closet (fig. 13) need only be very 
simple; it should be well-roofed and louvred for ventila- 
tion, its floor being raised above the level of the ground 
adjoining and flagged, and the pail placed under the 
seat. The seat may be hinged, to ensure a more com- 
plete covering of the excreta with cinders and ashes, 
when these are used, and to allow of the removal of the 
pail ; or the back wall of the closet may be provided 
with a door to effect the latter purpose. The pail 
should be removed at not longer intervals than once a 
week, and a clean one substituted for it. 

It is very important, irom a sanitary point of view, 



IO2 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



that the pail contents should be kept as dry as possible ; 
and for this object the house ashes and cinders should 
be thrown into the pail, either by a scoop after each use 
of the closet, or by a mechanical arrangement (to be 
described under earth-closets) above the pail, which 
sifts the cinders and deposits the fine ash automatically 





> 



FIG. 13. Privy constructed for Pail System. 

on the pail contents. At Nottingham the pails are the 
receptacles for the chamber urine and solid kitchen re- 
fuse, as well as for the excreta and ashes. It is perhaps 
convenient for the authorities to remove all house refuse 
in one receptacle ; but if it is intended to create a sale- 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. IO3 

able manure from the excretal refuse, all garbage and 
kitchen refuse and even all but the very finest ash (even 
this detracts from the value of the manure), should be 
kept out of the pails and removed separately. In such 
cases the pail contents can no longer be kept dry, and 
sanitary considerations must be, to a certain extent, 
sacrificed to ensure commercial profits. 

All slops must be kept out of the pails, and must be 
carried away from the houses in drains, with the other 
waste waters. In some cases separation of the urine 
from the faeces has been attempted. Besides introduc- 
ing a complication into a system, whose chief merit 
perhaps is simplicity, this plan is open to the great 
objection of abstracting- the most valuable fertilising 
constitutents of the manure in posse. 

In the Goux system an attempt is made to dry the 
excreta by lining a wooden tub with a layer ot refuse 
sawdust, shoddy, tan, or other absorbent material, to 
whh:h is added a little soot, charcoal, gypsum, or other 
deodorizer. This system is in use at Halifax, and on 
the whole has worked well. 

Wood charcoal and a charcoal obtained from sea-weed 
(Staniord's) have been used instead of ashes to aid in 
drying the pail contents. They act as desiccators, and 
possibly to a certain extent as deodorizers, and have 
been well spoken of by the late Mr. Netten Radcliffe in 
his Reports to the Local Government Board. 

Manufacture of Manure. In towns situated in agricul- 
tural districts, where there is a demand for the coarser 
sorts of manure, the pail contents need merely be mixed 
with a certain portion of fine ash. But in most of the 
large towns, where the midden or pail systems are in 
vogue, it is now the practice to convert the pail contents 
irto a dry manure of a more imperishable character, 



104 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

which can be packed and sold at a distance. The heat 
required for this purpose is generated by the combustion 
of house cinders and refuse in a Destructor Furnace, 
the invention of Mr. Fryer. 

The pail contents urine and faeces without ashes 
are mixed with a small portion of sulphuric acid, to fix 
the ammonia, in an air-tight store tank, where the 
thicker portion of the material settles to the bottom. 
The more fluid portion of the contents of the tank is 
drawn off into evaporators, which are tall cast-iron 
cylinders, each containing- near its lower end a drum- 
shaped heater, precisely resembling a multitubular 
steam boiler. These cylinders are partially filled, and 
the heating drums are covered with the thin liquid ; 
steam is then introduced within the heating drums, and 
the liquid becomes partially concentrated. 

When the contents of these cylinders have lost by 
evaporation the greater portion of their water, they are 
drawn off into a " F'irman's " Dryer, into which the 
thick portion c f the pail contents, which settled in the 
store tank, have also been admitted. This machine 
consists of a steam-jacketed horizontal cylinder, tra- 
versed by a steam-heated axis and by steam- heated 
revolving arms, and furnished with scrapers to keep the 
inner surface of the cylinder free from accumulations of 
dried excreta. The pail contents are admitted into the 
Dryer at a consistency of thin mud; after treatment 
they emerge as a dry powder " poudretie " resem- 
bling guano in appearance and quality, and estimated 
to be worth from ^3 to 6 per ton, dependent upon 
analysis. The odorous gases given off during the pro- 
cess are all passed through the Destructor fire and 
burnt. From the time the liquid material enters the 
store tank, until the end of the process when it emerges 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 105 

as a dry powder, no odorous gases can escape into v the 
outer air, and no nuisance can result. 

The Dry Earth System. This system is the invention 
of the late Rev. Henry Moule, and consists in the appli- 
cation to the excreta deposited in a pail or tub, of a 
certain quantity of dried and sifted earth. One and a 
half pounds of dry earth applied in detail, i.e., each par- 
ticular stool being- covered at once with this quantity, 
is found to be sufficient to remove all smell and to form 
a compost which remains inoffensive as long as it is 
dry. A certain action takes place in the mixture of 
earth and excrement which results in the complete dis- 
integration of the faecal matters and paper, which after 
a time are found to have completely disappeared and 
are no longer recognisable. The compost after further 
drying may be used over again, and has the same 
action as the original dry earth. The best kinds of 
earth are brick earth, loamy surface soils, vegetable 
mould, and dry clay. Sand, gravel, and chalk, are 
unsuitable and inefficient. 

The closet generally used with this system is almost 
identical with the cinder-sifting ash-closet, previously 
mentioned. There is a hopper or metallic receptacle 
above and behind the seat; and the proper amount of 
dry earth is shot into the pail by a simple mechanical 
contrivance connected with a handle, or self-acting seat 
arrangement. The contents of the pails must be kept 
as dry as possible, or fermentation results, with the dis- 
engagement of foul gases; consequently slops must on 
no account be thrown into them, and even chamber 
urine must be kept out of them, unless a considerable 
extra quantity of dry earth is used. The earth must be 
dried, before use, over a stove, and then sifted by means 
of a sieve, the finer portions only being used. 



IO6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

There can be but little doubt that the compost or 
manure produced by the passage of the earth even five 
or six times through the closet, has but little agricul- 
tural value. The British Association Sewage Committee 
reported of such manure that it was "no richer than 
good garden mould," and the late Dr. Voelcker esti- 
mated its value as only 7$. 6d. per ton. It is probable 
that there is some escape or evolution of nitrogen in a 
free state from the manure when kept ; and this may 
partly account for its deficiency in fertilising properties. 
But when we reflect on the large amount of valueless 
earth with which the compost is diluted, and the absence 
from it of a large proportion of the daily urine of each 
individual, the reasons for its low value are not far to 
seek. 

The Disposal of Slop Wafers. 

We have already seen that the Conservancy systems 
do not provide for the removal of the liquid refuse, 
domestic or municipal, and we have seen, too, that 
in the so-called midden towns the liquid refuse or 
sewage is quite as impure as the ordinary sewage of 
water-closet towns. In these towns, too, there is al- 
ways a certain percentage of houses provided with 
water-closets, so that the crude sewage is inadmissible 
into a river or stream, and requires to be purified in 
one of the ways which we shall presently speak of. 
A system of drains and sewers is also necessary for its 
removal from the town; and the principles on which 
such drains and sewers must be constructed do not 
differ from those which would be necessary if they were 
intended to carry water closet sewage as well. 

In small villages and isolated houses, provided with 
middens or some form of dry closet, the slop waters are 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 

usually carried by a drain from a sink or yard golley 
into "sumpt" holes in the garden, into an open ditch, 
into a cesspool, or into a stream; if into a "sumpt" 
hole or open ditch, there to stagnate and generate 
offensive gases; if into a cesspool, to percolate through 
its porous walls and pollute the neighbouring wells; 
and if into a stream, to foul it nearly as much as if they 
contained the solid excreta also. In some cases the 
slop waters may be retained in cesspools which are 
rendered impermeable by brickwork set in cement and 
well puddled with clay outside; and they can then be 
utilised on garden ground by means of a pump and hose 
and jet. But wherever the nature of the soil a porous 
soil is best and the slope of the land will permit of it, 
recourse should be had to sub-irrigation, to purify the 
dirty water and utilise it to the best advantage. A 
very small piece of ground is required for this purpose. 
Mr. Rogers Field considers 4 perches of land sufficient 
for an ordinary cottage. 

The drain conveying the slop waters from the house 
should be connected with a system of 2- inch .agricul- 
tural porous earthenware pipes, laid about 5 or 6 feet 
apart, with open joints, at a depth of about 8 to 12 
inches in the soil, the whole having a slight fall or 
inclination away from the house of 6 or 8 inches in 100 
feet. The ends of the pipes should rest upon cradles 
formed of half pipes, aud similar covers should be placed 
above, so as to prevent earth getting into the pipes, 
whilst allowing the water to escape. The lower end 
of the main outlet pipe should turn up into the air to 
allow air to escape. This is especially necessary when 
the slop waters are discharged into the sub-irrigation 
drains by a flush tank. 

If the soil is very porous, no under-drainage is 



io8 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



needed; otherwise porous drain pipes must be laid at 
a depth of about 3 feet from the surface, with an outlet 
into a stream or ditch. The slop waters escape through 
the open joints of the sub-irrigation pipes into the soil, 
where some of their fertilising ingredients are absorbed 
by the roots of the grasses and vegetables grown on the 
plot, and the remainder are oxidised and purified by 
percolation through the soil ; so that the effluent water 
passes away free from all polluting organic matters, into 
a stream or ditch, or helps to swell the volume of the 
subsoil water. 

The chief difficulty in connection with this method is 




FIG. 14. Field's Annular Siphon Flush Tank. 

that the flow of slop waters from a single house is so 
small, that the liquid penetrates but a short way along 
the sub-irrigation pipes, which become in time choked 
with deposit; and that portion of the sub irrigation plot 
nearest the house receives an unduly large share of the 
irrigating liquid, and its cleansing properties are 
speedily overtaxed. This difficulty has been overcome 
by interposing a flush tank between the house pipe and 
the sub-irrigation pipes. The tank now in most general 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. IOQ 

use for this purpose is fitted with the annular siphon 
arrangement, invented by Mr. Rogers Field. 

In the annular siphon (fig. 14) the ascending arm of 
an ordinary siphon is represented by a short wide 
cylindrical pipe, closed at the top, which is placed over 
and encloses the descending arm, a longer pipe of 
smaller diameter. The upper end of the descending 
arm is open, and in Field's tank is provided with a lip 
projecting inwards and downwards, which serves to 
throw off the water, as it overflows, into the centre of 
the lumen of the pipe. The lower end of the descend- 
ing arm opens over a discharging trough below the 
body of the tank, and is trapped by the water which 
stands in this trough to the level of the top of a weir, 
over which the water flows into a pipe connected with 
the head of the sub-irrigation system. 

Only a very small dribble of water into the tank is 
necessary to put the siphon into action. This takes 
place as follows: Water ascends between the inner 
and outer pipes constituting the siphon, until it reaches 
the level of the top of the inner pipe, the air displaced 
finding an exit through this pipe and the discharging 
trough below. The water then trickles over the top of 
the inner pipe, and thrown into its centre by the lip, 
falls clear of the sides, entangling and carrying air with 
it, which cannot pass back owing to the lower end of 
the pipe being trapped. This continues until the siphon 
is sufficiently exhausted of air to be brought into action, 
when the pressure of the atmosphere forces the water in 
the tank through it, and the whole contents are dis- 
charged. 

It is not necessary to strain the slop waters before 
they enter the tank, as they contain but few of the 
coarser suspended matters and solid particles found in 



IIO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

water-closet sewage. The sub-irrigation drains may be 
connected with the flush tank by a greater or less length 
of water-tight drain according to circumstances. They 
require to be taken out of the ground and the deposit 
removed before they are relaid, about once every five 
years, according to circumstances. 



Comparison of Methods. 

There can be no doubt that all conservancy systems 
proceed on a wrong principle, viz., that of keeping 
excremental matters within or near dwellings as long 
as they are not considered to be a nuisance or a danger 
to health. In towns the expense of scavenging is 
directly proportional to the frequency of removal, so 
that there is always an inducement to the local authority 
to economise at the risk of the health of the inhabitants. 
The costs of this kind of scavenging are high in many 
towns very high and in but very few does the sale of 
the refuse cover the expense of scavenging. That 
improved middens and pail or earth closets are a great 
improvement on the former disgraceful conditions which 
prevailed in most towns, nobody will deny ; but it is 
difficult to justify the existence of any such systems 
when all the facts are known. The principal objection 
to them, that they only deal with a small part of the 
refuse of a population, and fail to deal with the sewage 
of a highly polluting character, we have already con- 
sidered. 

Movable receptacles are far better than fixed ones 
for the collection of excremental matters. By the use of 
pails, the pollution of the air caused by the removal of 
the contents of the middens, and the pollution of the 
soil an always possible danger with middens are 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. Ill 

avoided. Ashes should be used with the pails to en- 
sure, as far as possible, dryness of their contents. It is 
better to sacrifice a possible profit on the manure than 
to run the risk of spreading" disease by fermentation of 
the liquid filth. The pail system is undoubtedly the 
best for towns which will not enforce the adoption of 
water-closets. Sanitarily considered it is inferior to 
the earth system, in which dryness of the excrement by 
the addition of dry earth is part of the system. But 
however suitable for country houses, and for villages in 
this country, and for villages and stations in India, 
where earth of suitable quality is easily procured and 
dried, and the compost can be distributed over gardens 
and fields in the immediate vicinity, it is quite inappli- 
cable to towns of any size on account of the enormous 
quantities of earth that would have to be dried and 
brought into the town, the difficulties of storing the 
earth on the premises of houses and keeping it dry, and 
the still larger quantity of nearly worthless manure to 
be removed out of the town and finally disposed of. 



THE WATER CARRIAGE SYSTEM. 

In this system the solid excreta together with all other 
liquid refuse are conveyed away borne along- by flow- 
ing- water in drains and sewers from the neighbour- 
hood of houses and towns. In many towns, before any 
general introduction of water-closets, sewers existed for 
conveying away house waste waters, stable drainage, 
surface and storm waters, and in some cases waste 
liquors from manufactories. These sewers, which were 
made of brick, oval or circular in section, acted also 
as drains; for not being constructed of impermeable 



112 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

materials, they admitted subsoil water, and had con- 
siderable effect in drying- the soil. 

It became at one time also the practice to drain off 
the liquid contents of privies and middens, or to carry 
overflow pipes from cesspools into these sewers, which, 
not being designed to receive excremental refuse of this 
description, speedily became choked with sediment. 
This sediment rapidly putrified, and the offensive gases 
given off created an abominable nuisance. It then 
became necessary for the sewers to be regularly 
cleansed, and this deposit had to be removed at great 
expense by hand labour. The drainage of privies and 
middens entered the sewers in a most foul and offensive 
condition, owing to the putrid state of the contents of 
these receptacles. Another result was that the streams 
and rivers, into which this sewage was permitted to 
pass, became highly polluted. In many towns these 
brick sewers still exist, and perform the double function 
of removing sewage and rain water, and draining the 
subsoil ; whilst in others they are only permitted to 
perform their original function of carrying off rain and 
surface water and draining the subsoil, impermeable 
pipe sewers being laid to remove the sewage of the 
town, on what is known as the separate system. 



House Drainage Arrangements. 

Water-closets. A water-closet may be defined as an 
apparatus for the reception of excrement which is con- 
nected with a sewer by a pipe, and in which water must 
be used to carry away the excrement deposited in it. It 
is therefore seen at once to differ in all essentials from 
a privy, which ought not to be connected in any way 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 113 

with a sewer, and in which water cannot properly be 
used. Water-closets may be classified under two 
heads: (a}. Those in which there is no movable ap- 
paratus for retaining- water in the basin; (6). Those in 
which there is a movable apparatus. Under the first 
head are included hopper and wash-out closets, under the 
second head, pan, valve, and plug closets. 

The hopper closet consists of an inverted stoneware 
cone, connected below with an S-shaped pipe, which 
retains sufficient water to prevent the free passage of 
air, and is known as a siphon trap. The old form of 




FIG. 15. Long Hopper Water-Closet with side inlet for flushing. 

hopper closet called the long hopper, from the length of 
the cone (fig. 15), is liable to fouling of the basin, and is 
difficult to flush, especially where the water is admitted 
by a side inlet, which has the effect of causing it (the 
water) to whirl round and round, whereby the trap is 
not flushed out and excreta are left behind. The 
short hopper (fig. 1 6) is constructed with a shorter cone of 
china or stoneware, the back of the cone being made 
nearly vertical, so that the excrement drops into the 
water of the trap and not upon the sides of the basin. 

i 



114 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The short hopper, especially when constructed with a 
"flushing rim," by which the sides of the basin are well 
washed, is found, under proper management, to be 
easily kept clean. The closet should be flushed from a 




FIG. 16. Short Hopper Water- Closet. 

waste-preventing cistern holding not less than 2 gallons 
of water, placed not less than 4 feet above the seat, the 
service or supply-pipe being i or i^ inch in diameter. 
It is a form of closet which is now coming very largely 




FIG. 17. Wash-out Water-Closet. 

into use, for it is simple in construction, inexpensive, has 
no confined air-space where foul air could accumulate, 
and conveys slop-waters away at once, no overflow pipe 
being necessary. 

The wash-out closet (fig. 17) is constructed of stone- 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 115 

ware or china, with the basin so shaped that a small 
quantity of water remains in it to receive the excreta, 
which are flushed out over the edge of the basin into a 
siphon trap below. This form of closet is difficult to 
flush with only 2 gallons of water, for the rush of the 
water from the flushing- cistern is broken by the force 
necessary to clear out the contents of the basin, and 
then the water falls into the trap, but, usually, without 
sufficient impetus to propel the excreta through it. The 
basin too is very apt to become soiled by solid matters 
near the outlet. The basin as In the case of every 
closet basin should be provided with a flushing rim. 
The Dececo closet (fig. 18), the invention of Colonel 




FIG. 18. Dececo Water-Closet. 

Waring, is similar to the short hopper closet, but is 
designed to retain a larger quantity of water in the 
basin. The ascending arm of the siphon trap is con- 
tinued up to such a height as it may be thought desir- 
able that the water should stand in the basin. The 
descending arm of the siphon ends in a discharging 
trough, similar to that of Mr. Rogers Field's flush tank. 
When the closet is flushed, siphon action is started, and 
the water and excreta are rapidly discharged. The 
waste-preventing cistern used with this closet is pro- 

j 2 



n6 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



vided with a branch pipe conveying 1 water from the 
"supply-pipe to the cistern " to the " supply-pipe to the 
closet;" so that when the cistern is refilling", the W.C. 
basin is also being- recharged with water, constituting a 
species of " after-flush." 

Water-waste preventing cisterns should be used with each 
of these three forms of closet, both for economy of water 
and to break the connection between the house cistern, 
used for drinking" water, and the W.C. basin. Where 
there is no house cistern, the water being supplied by 
constant service, the water-waste preventer is especially 




FIG. 19. Siphon Action Water- Waste Preventer. 

necessary. Numerous epidemics of enteric fever have 
been traced to the ascent of foul air or liquid filth from 
W.C. basins up the supply-pipes into the water mains, 
with which they were directly connected. One of the 
simplest forms of water-waste preventer merely has a 
spindle valve in the cistern on the supply-pipe to the 
closet, which can be raised by pulling- a chain attached 
to a lever, when the water 2 or 2\ gallons is dis- 
charged. When the lever is depressed by the chain, 
the ball valve is raised, and no more water can enter 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. Jiy 

\^ 

the waste-preventer as long" as the chain is held. The 
chain must be held until the waste preventer is empty. 

The best form (fig-. 19) of water-waste preventer is 
that with a siphon action. A very short pull of the 
chain will put the siphon in action, when the whole con- 
tents of the cistern are discharg-ed. No more water 
can then escape until the cistern is refilled and the 
chain again pulled. Its especial advantage is that it is 
emptied by a very short pull of the chain an important 
factor in the proper flushing of closets used by careless 
persons. 

The closets already described are more especially 
useful out of doors and in the basements of houses, 
where they can be directly connected with the drain. 
The joint between the china or stoneware trap and lead 
soil-pipe is difficult to make perfectly secure. There- 
fore it is better for these closets, where they must be 
connected to a soil-pipe, to have lead-traps, a wiped 
joint being made between the closet trap and the soil- 
pipe, as any imperfection in this joint will allow foul air 
to escape into the house. 

Under the head of closets with a movable apparatus 
for retaining water in the basin, we have the Pan, the 
Valve, and the Plug Closets. 

The Pan closet (fig. 20) has been, and is still, more 
largely in use than any other form in the better class of 
houses; and it is undoubtedly a very badly contrived 
closet, and one which is most productive of nuisance. 
When water-closets were first introduced into this 
country, between 50 and 60 years ago, the Bramah or 
valve-closet was the one generally used. The Bramah 
closet was, however, superseded by the pan closet, on 
account of the smaller cost of the latter, and the fact 
that no overflow pipe to the basin was necessary 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

rn 




FIG. 20. Pan Closet with D trap, supplied from drinking water 
cistern. Standing waste-pipe directly connected with unventilated 
soil pipe. Waste-pipe of safe tray enters the D trap. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. IIQ 

water flowing- over the sides of the pan as it was for 
the Bramah with its watertight valve. 

The pan closet consists of a china basin, shaped like 
an inverted cone, with its outlet guarded by a movable 
metal pan, which retains water in the basin ; and for 
this purpose the pan must be of considerable size. On 
raising the handle of the closet, the pan is swung- back 
into a large rounded cast-iron receptacle called the 
"container," into which the excreta and water fall. 
From the bottom of the container a short pipe leads 
to a trap usually a D trap designed to prevent the 
passage of foul air from the soil pipe into the closet. 
The interior of the container becomes much splashed 
and soiled by the excreta; and the deposit thus formed 
putrefies, giving- rise to foul gases which escape into the 
air of the closet as soon as the pan is swung back. 

The D trap so-called from its resemblance to the 
letter ^, placed sidewaysis made of lead, and quickly 
becomes coated with a deposit of foul matter in those 
parts which are not flushed by the water passing 
through it. This deposit, like that in the container, 
gives rise to the formation of foul gases. The walls 
of old D traps and the soil pipes, with which they are 
connected, are not uncommonly found perforated in 
places, owing to the chemical action of the fluids and 
gases, so formed, on the lead of which they are made. 
Pan closets and D traps, wherever found, should be 
replaced by one of those forms of closet, which are 
capable of being flushed in such a manner, that no de- 
posit of filth can take place in any part of the apparatus. 

The Valve closet (fig. 21), which is now coming largely 
into use, consists of a semi-spherical basin of china or 
stoneware, with a circular outlet at its lowest part, 
3 inches in diameter. This outlet is closed by a circular 



120 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



water-tight valve, hinged at one side where it is con- 
nected with the handle of the closet. On raising the 
handle, the free edge of the valve is depressed into a 
metal valve box, just large enough to allow the valve to 
assume a perpendicular position. The valve box is con- 
nected at its lower part with a trap preferably a siphon 
trap or an Anti-D trap formed of 4-inch lead pipe and 
the outlet of this trap is connected with the soil pipe. 
The valve closet should be flushed from a small cistern 
holding 6 or 8 gallons of water, and not from a water- 




FIG. 21. Valve Water-Closet with Anti-D Trap and Anti-Siphonagc 

Pipe. 

waste preventer, as it is necessary to provide an " after 
flush ; " that is to say to allow a supply of water to 
enter the basin after the handle is released and the 
valve closed. 

To secure an after-flush, some form of "regulator" 
valve in the- supply pipe from the cistern to the closet 
basin must be used. The "bellows regulator," which 
is commonly used, consists of a piston working 1 in a 
cylinder, connected with the handle of the closet and 
with the valve in the supply pipe. The cylinder is pro- 
vided with an escape pipe for air, on which is a tap to 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 121 

v 

regulate the speed with which the piston falls. When 
the handle is raised, the valve in the supply pipe is 
opened and the piston also is raised; but on letting- go 
the handle the valve to the closet basin being then 
closed the valve on the supply pipe is kept open, ad- 
mitting water to the basin, until the piston has com- 
pletely fallen. The amount of after-flush, which is 
directly proportional to the slowness with which the 
piston sinks in the cylinder, can be regulated to a great 
nicety by the tap on the air escape pipe. 

As the outlet to the closet basin is guarded by a 
water-tight valve, the basin is liable to overflow from 
too much after-flush, or from the throwing in of slops. 
It is necessary therefore to provide an overflow pipe to 
the basin; this is usually carried from near the top of 
the basin into the valve box below, after forming an S 
bend, to prevent the ascent of foul air from the valve 
box. But it is found in practice that foul matters may 
find their way into, or accumulate in the overflow pipe, 
and that the water in the bend is liable to be drawn out 
by siphonage, when the contents of the basin are dis- 
charged through the valve box. 

Two precautions may be adopted to obviate this diffi- 
culty. The first is to carry the overflow pipe into that 
side of the valve box where its open end will be pro- 
tected by the depressed valve ; and the second, which 
is most necessary, is to carry a branch pipe from the 
supply pipe, near the regulator valve, into the bend, 
whereby the water in it is renewed at each use of the 
closet. The basin of the closet should be provided with 
a flushing rim. 

There is very little risk of the deposition of filth in any 
part of the apparatus, as the large volume of water, 
which the basin can contain, effectually flushes the small 



122 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

valve box and trap beneath. Occasionally the valve 
box is enamelled inside to prevent corrosion. The chief 
disadvantage of the closet is that, unless carefully used, 
the valve becomes in time leaky, allowing- the water in 
the basin to escape, and possibly foul air to ascend into 
the general air of the closet. 

The Anti-D trap (see fig. 21) is an S bent pipe like the 
siphon trap, but the calibre of the pipe is diminished in 
the bent portion which holds the trapping water, and 
the bend of the pipe beyond the trap instead of being 
circular is squared. These properties cause some 
resistance to the passage of water through the trap, and 
tend to prevent both st'phonage by suction, i.e., the drawing 
of the water in the trap by the passage of water down 
the soil-pipe from a higher level, and siphonage by momen- 
tum, which may occur in plain siphon traps by the water 
discharged from the water-closet sweeping through the 
trap, none remaining behind to form the water-seal. 

In the Plug closet, the basin and trap are usually cast 
in one piece of china or stoneware, the basin above 
being separated from the trap (siphon) below, by a 
solid plug or plunger, by which water is retained in the 
basin. The cistern and flushing arrangements may be 
the same as those for the valve closet, an after-flush 
being necessary for both alike. The plug, which is con- 
nected directly with the handle, is usually perforated by 
a channel bent on itself so as to form a trap, and thus 
provides an overflow to the basin, permitting water to 
pass through the plug to the trap beneath. Sometimes 
these closets are used without the trap beneath ; but in 
both plug and valve closets a siphon trap is necessary to 
prevent the passage of foul air from the soil-pipe when 
the closet is discharging its contents. The plug or 
plunger is liable to become soiled, and being out of 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 123 

sight escapes cleaning-; this constitutes a disadvantage 
in use. The trapless closet, in which the basin can be 
jointed to a lead trap beneath, is preferable, for reasons 
before stated, to the closet with basin and trap in one 
piece, where connection must be made to a lead soil- 
pipe. 

For valve and plug closets as for those of the first 
class, to ensure efficient flushing, the cistern must be at 
least 4 feet above the seat, and the supply-pipe not less 
than i inch in diameter. The valve and plug closets 
are under the disadvantage of having a space between 
the water in the basin and the water in the trap, from 
which air possibly foul escapes into the general air 
of the closet when the contents of the basin are being 
discharged. But they have this advantage over those 
of the first class, that the larger quantity of water in the 
basin renders them more cleanly in use. The Dececo 
closet has been so recently invented that we are unable 
tQ speak as to its practical working. Possibly it may 
possess the advantages, without the drawbacks, of both 
the classes of water-closets we have described. 

On the floor beneath the closet basin is usually placed 
a lead or zinc safe-tray, to catch any overflow. This tray 
should be provided with a waste-pipe, which must be 
carried through the wall into the outer air, its end being 
covered by a brass flapper to prevent cold currents of 
air passing into the house. It was formerly the custom 
to connect this waste-pipe with the D trap (see fig. 20), 
under the closet basin, thereby permitting foul air to 
enter the house at all times. 

Water-closets should be placed against an outside 
wall of a building, in which is a window reaching to the 
ceiling. Where possible they should be separated from 
the house by a well- ventilated lobby; for it is important 



124 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

that air from the closet should find an easy exit to the 
outer air, and not pass into the house, as so often hap- 
pens when water-closets are placed in dark unvcntilated 
corners. 

The Trough closet (fig 1 . 22) is specially useful in large 
establishments, as Hospitals, Schools, Workhouses, and 
Asylums, and in the courts and alleys of towns. One 
apparatus serves for the use of several people at the 
same time, and the flushing can be rendered automatic. 
The closet consists of an open trough, usually of stone- 
ware, with rounded bottom, of varying: length according 
to the number of compartments desired. The trough 




FIG. 22. Trough Water-Closet. 



should have a slight incline towards the drain ; and by 
means of a weir at its lower end should be able to re- 
tain sufficient water to cover the bottom for its whole 
length. It should terminate in a siphon trap protected 
by a grid, to keep back articles improperly thrown in, 
before joining the drain. Each seat over the trough 
should be in a separate wooden compartment. The 
closet may be flushed by means of a Field's Annular 
Siphon Flush Tank (see fig. 14) of capacity propor- 
tional to the length of the trough to be flushed. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 125 

The frequency of discharge of the tank and flushing 
of the trough, can be regulated by adjusting the tap 
through which the water enters : the merest dribble is 
usually quite sufficient. This tank in practice works 
admirably, "dribbling" and "continuous" action being 
impossible, if it is placed on a perfectly level surface 
with the discharge pipe quite plumb. 

Trough closets might with advantage be more exten- 
sively used than they are in the poor districts of large 
towns, to replace the wretched "long hopper" basins, 
which are nearly always in a filthy condition and 
wretchedly flushed. The trough closet is admirably 
adapted to the wants of a poor population ; the flushing 
is automatic, and if the tank is placed in a separate 
locked compartment accessible only to the nuisance in- 
spector, it is out of reach of mischievous interference. 
There is nothing in the structure of the trough, that can 
be detached and misappropriated ; and the closets of a 
whole court, consisting of a large number of families, 
can be supervised with great readiness by the sanitary 
official, and the contents disinfected during epidemic 
periods before being discharged into the sewer. 

Urinals should be made of non-corrosive materials, 
such as china, slate, and stoneware; all metal apparatus 
is liable to corrosion, and should not be used. The floor 
should be cemented, and should slope towards a chan- 
nel which discharges into a siphon trap connected with 
drain or soil-pipe. Urinal basins may be made of china 
or stoneware, and constructed so as to retain water. 
Their waste-pipes should discharge over the channel in 
the floor. The best kind of flush is that from siphon- 
action flush tanks which discharge automatically at re- 
gular intervals. Wright's self-flushing urinal is an 
ingenious invention which, by means of an arrangement 



126 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of siphons in connection with the cistern, secures a flush 
to the urinal basin as soon as urine flows out of the 
basin down the waste-pipe. 

Slop- sinks should be used only where it is objection- 
able to discharge slops through the water-closets. They 
are usually short hopper china basins with a siphon trap 
below, protected by a grid to keep back the larger 
foreign bodies which might obstruct the pipes. They 
should be provided with a flushing rim, and flushed from 
a water-waste preventer. 

Soil pipes are used to receive the contents of water- 
closets, urinals, and slop sinks only. They should be 
circular in section, and 3^ or 4 inches in diameter, these 
being the most convenient sizes for ordinary use. They 
should be of drawn lead, 7 ft) to the square foot, or 9 ft) 
to the square foot for very high buildings, without any 
longitudinal seam ; and should be fixed outside the 
house, with wiped (soldered) joints between the different 
lengths of pipe. Lead T pieces are used to receive the 
branches from the water-closets. 

Soil pipes outside the house are often made of cast 
iron or galvanized iron. In America cast iron soil pipes 
are insisted on by Board of Health regulations, especial 
precautions being laid down for the construction of the 
joints between the different lengths. To prevent oxida- 
tion and the formation of rust, iron soil pipes should be 
coated inside and outside with the magnetic oxide of 
iron (Barff's process), with hot coal tar pitch, or with 
Angus Smith's solution. The joints between the differ- 
ent lengths must be caulked with oakum and lead, or 
with Spence's metal, and the joints between the iron 
pipe and the lead T pieces from the closets "should be 
made with a brass ferrule, caulked in with lead, the lead 
pipe being attached to the ferrule by a wiped joint."* 
* " House-drainage," by W. Eassie, Our Homes, p. 635. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 



127 



The joints between the lengths of cast iron pipes are 

sometimes made with Portland 
cement. 

With these precautions, and 
under skilled workmanship, 
iron soil pipes may be used 
outside a house. Stoneware, 
zinc, or wrought iron should 
never be used for soil pipes. 
The proper fixing of the soil 
pipe, to ensure its being per- 
fectly rigid, is a point of im- 
portance ; if not securely fixed 
there will be a strain on some 
or all of the joints with the 
result of their becoming inse- 
cure. Outside soil pipes should 
be connected below with the 
house drain by a plain bend ; 
and all soil pipes, whether in- 
side or outside the house, should 
be carried up full bore above 
the entrance of the branch from 
from the highest water-closet 
to the top of the house (fig. 23) 
above the ridge of the roof, 
clear of all windows and chim- 
neys, their ends being left open 
or covered merely with wire 
gauze. Where the soil pipe 
must be inside the house, it 
FIG. 2 3 .-SoiI Pipe and Yen- should not be connected di- 
tilator,with Anti-Siphonage re ctly with the house drain, 
Pipes from the W.C. bran- ^ ^^ discharge into a 



oj 



128 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



a siphon disconnecting" trap (soil pipe intercepter, fig. 24) 
with an air inlet outside the house to admit of a cur- 
rent of fresh air passing- up the soil pipe the drain in 
these cases being ventilated separately by means of a 
4-inch pipe carried up above the roof. 

Where one soil pipe receives the discharges of seve- 
ral water-closets on different floors, the passage of the 
contents of one of the upper closets down the soil pipe 




FIG. 24. Soil Pipe Intercepter for inside Soil Pipe. 

may cause the water in the trap of one of the lower 
closets to be drawn off, owing to the suctional force of 
the downward current of air caused by the descent of 
the liquid in the soil pipe. To prevent this siphonage 
taking place, a i^ or 2-inch ventilating pipe should be 
carried up from every branch pipe but the highest, close 
to but beyond the trap (on its soil pipe side), and join- 
ing with one another on their way up outside the house, 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. T2Q 

they may be connected with the ventilator to the soil 
pipe (fig-. 23). By this means the water-closet traps 
will not be disturbed by the passage of liquid down the 
soil pipe, for air will be sucked down these anti-siphon- 
age pipes to restore the disturbed equilibrium. 

Rain water pipes from the roof must on no account 
be used as soil pipes and ventilators, for during heavy 
rain, when it may be most necessary to give a safe exit 
for displaced drain air, they will be useless as ventila- 
tors, and foul air may be forced through water-closet 
traps into the houses. 

House drains are usually constructed of circular glazed 
stoneware socketted pipes with cemented joints, or with 
Stanford's Patent joints or Doulton's modification, in 
which the spigot and socket ends of each pipe are provided 
with a mould of smooth tough material causing them to 
fit accurately into each other when in position, a very 
perfect joint being thus formed with the addition of a 
little rosin and tallow. Each pipe is usually made two 
feet in length. When cemented joints are used, care 
must be taken to remove any cement projecting from 
the interior of the joint into the drain, which, when 
hardened, would form an obstruction to the flow of 
sewage through the drain. Cast iron pipes coated in- 
side and out with some preservative material, such as 
the magnetic oxide of iron or Angus Smith's solution, 
to prevent oxidation, are used when the drain is re- 
quired to be of extra strength. The joints of an iron 
drain must be caulked with lead and gasket. 

For small and medium-sized houses a drain 4 inches 
in diameter is the proper size; for large houses a 6-inch 
drain may be used, and for institutions or establish- 
ments consisting of several buildings, a 9-inch drain 
may be required. The smaller the drain the better the 



130 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

flushing and removal of deposit, but the drain must in 
all cases be large enough to carry off at all times all 
the rainfall over the area drained, as well as the maxi- 
mum flow of sewage proper of the house. A volume of 
water sufficient to make a 4-inch pipe run full, causes a 
6-inch pipe to run less than half full, and a 9 inch pipe 
only about a quarter full, when all three are laid at the 
same inclination. 

The pipes must be laid (with the socket end pointing 
upwards towards the head of the drain) on a perfectly 
smooth incline of hard ground, or where passing under 
the basement of a house on a bed of cement concrete, 
and in this case it is often the practice to cover and 
embed them as well with cement concrete. Concrete 
should be made of clean sharp sand, I pt.; clean ballast, 
5 pts.; Portland cement, I pt. The gradient for a 
4-inch drain should, if possible, be not less than I in 40, 
of a 6-inch drain I in 60, and of a 9-inch drain I in 90 ; 
this will give in each case a velocity of flow of between 
3 and 4 feet per second. The drain should not, where- 
ever it can be avoided, be carried under the basement 
of a house. Where, however, this is unavoidable, the 
special precautions noticed above must be taken, and at 
the point where the drain leaves the premises, the wall 
should be supported by a relieving arch to prevent 
settlement and fracture of the pipes. 

Drains should be laid as far as possible in straight 
lines. If a bend is necessary, it should be effected by 
means of a pipe curved to the proper degree. A branch 
drain should be made to join the main drain by means 
of a V junction pipe, so that the branch current may be 
flowing nearly in the direction of the main current, thus 
causing no obstruction at the point of union. In large 
houses it is very often impossible to carry the drain in a 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. \$I 

straight line for its whole length. It is advisable in 
these cases, at every change of direction, to provide 
means of inspection by manhole chambers, the drain 
being continued through the floor of the chamber by a 
suitably curved channel pipe, i.e., a pipe divided longi- 
tudinally in half. Into these inspection chambers 
(fig. 25) the branch drains also may be made to dis- 
charge by means of short curved channel pipes empty- 
ing over the main channel. Winser's curved channel 
pipes, from which about a quarter section only of the 




FIG. 25. Plan of Inspection Chamber for House Drain, where it 
changes its direction. A. Main drain. B. Branch drains. 

circumference has been removed, should be used when 
connected with a high soil-pipe, so as to avoid splash- 
ing of solid faecal matters over the floor of the chamber. 
By this system of manhole chambers, the drain which 
runs in a straight line from manhole to manhole 
can be inspected and cleared of deposit or obstructions 
without breaking into it. Where it is necessary to con- 
nect a small pipe with a larger pipe, the junction should 
always be effected by means of a taper or diminishing 
pipe. 

The disconnection of the house drain from the public 

K 2 



132 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

sewer is a matter of the greatest importance, experience 
having- proved the absolute necessity of preventing the 
entry of air from the common sewer into any part of a 
house or its drainage arrangements. Disconnection is 
effected by interposing a siphon trap between the house 
drain and the sewer, and advantage is taken of this 
break to provide a means of inlet for fresh air into the 
house drain at this point. The point usually chosen for 
disconnection is in an outer yard or area before the 
house drain leaves the premises, in its course to the 
street sewer. If the house drain is provided with a 
ventilating pipe at the further end, air, admitted on the 
house side of the disconnection trap, will produce a 
current from the lower opening to the higher, and con- 
stant circulation will thus be established in the drain and 
soil pipe, preventing any accumulation of foul air. 

The simplest form of disconnecting apparatus consists 
of a siphon trap with fresh air inlet, formed of stone- 
ware pipes. There are several varieties of this sort of 
trap sold, under the names of "sewer-air intercepter," 
l ' sewer-air trap," etc. The points to be observed in 
choosing a trap of this description, are : (i) where the 
drain is a 6-inch or 9-inch pipe, the siphon should be a 
size smaller than the drain ; (2) there should be a fall 
of an inch or more from the level of the discharging end 
of the house drain to the surface of the trapping water 
(3) the siphon should provide an adequate seal of 2 or 
3 inches of water; (4) the inlet to the siphon should 
be nearly vertical, whilst the outlet rises at an angle of 
not more than 45. These qualities, except (3), are 
necessary to ensure efficient flushing of the trap ; and 
to further attain this end, the drain should be laid with 
a slightly greater fall before its junction with the trap. 
The inlet to the siphon is continued up by a vertical 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 133 

pipe to the surface of the ground, and there covered by 
an open iron grating, to provide the necessary inlet for 
fresh air. 

In larger houses it is now usual to provide a discon- 
necting manhole chamber (fig. 26), instead of the simple 
trap above described. This chamber is built of glazed 
brickwork in cement upon a bed of concrete. The 
drain is continued through the floor of the manhole in 
the form of a glazed channel pipe, from which the 
floor made of cement slopes up at an angle of 30 to 
the brick walls of the manhole. The branch drains, in the 
form of suitably curved channel pipes, are made to dis- 
charge over the main channel, which itself discharges 
into a siphon trap. The siphon trap should be provided 
with a "raking" arm, one end of which opens into the 
manhole, the other end being connected with the drain 
beyond the trap. This arm is to permit of obstruction 
being removed from the drain between the siphon trap 
and the sewer ; when not in use, the manhole end should 
be closed with a tile set in cement. The manhole 
chamber may be closed above by an air-tight iron 
cover; and the fresh air should then be admitted into 
the chamber by a 6-inch pipe, the manhole end of the 
pipe being opposite the entrance of the drain, whilst the 
end open to the air is covered by an iron grating. 
Where the disconnecting chamber is some distance from 
the house, fresh air may be admitted by perforations in 
the iron cover. The chief advantage of the manhole 
chamber is the readiness with which the drain can be 
inspected and cleansed. 

Where the house drain discharges into a sewer liable 
to flooding, it is necessary to provide a tide valve be- 
tween the sewer and drain. The best form of this ap- 
paratus is a floating ball valve in an enlargement of the 



134 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



drain, which rises, on the sewage being- backed up from 
the sewer, and closes the outlet to the drain. 




For house drains with insufficient gradient, in which 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. .135 

deposit is liable to occur, it is advisable to place an 
automatic flush tank at the head of the drain ; by this 
means the dangers arising from insufficient fall may be 
to a great extent obviated. 

When a house drain has been laid, and before it is 
covered in, it should be tested for leaks. A simple 
method is to plug- the lower end of the drain and fill it 
\vith water. If after standing 1 some time the level of 
the water at the upper end is found to descend, the drain 
is not water-tight and the joints should be examined for 
leaks. Another method, which tests the soil pipe as well 
as the drains, is to burn brown paper or some sulphur in 
a shovel, in the disconnecting trap or chamber, the air- 
inlet being closed as soon as the paper or sulphur is 
well alight; or the drain may be filled with smoke by a 
forcing apparatus actuated by an air-pump, or by firing 
smoke rockets into it. Leakages in the drain or soil 
pipe will then become evident to both sight and smell. 
A third method, which is especially applicable for test- 
ing drains and soil pipes which have been long in posi- 
tion, and in which there is no disconnection apparatus, 
is to pour down the ventilator to the soil pipe, if there 
is one, or in default, the highest water-closet, about half 
an ounce of oil of peppermint, following it up with seve- 
ral gallons of hot water. By this means the smallest 
leak will be discovered by the sense of smell, as the 
peppermint is excessively volatile. Soil pipes and their 
branches may be tested before the W.C.'s are con- 
nected, by soldering over the apertures where the traps 
of the W.C.'s are connected with the soil pipes, and 
then filling the pipes with water. This is a severe test 
owing to the great head of water, but 3j-inch lead pipes 
(9 Ib to the square foot) are found to stand the test well 
if the joints are well made. 



136 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

All waste-pipes from baths, lavatories, sinks, and safe, 
trays under water-closets or baths, must be disconnected 
from the drain or soil pipe by being made to discharge into 
the open air. The waste-pipes from baths, lavatories, 
and sinks should be of large diameter (i^ or 2 inches) 
to ensure rapid emptying of the baths, sinks, &c., and as 
short as possible; for they tend to become coated in- 
ternally with a deposit of dirt and soap, which decom- 
poses, and may be productive of nuisance. To prevent 
foul air from these pipes entering the house, a cast lead 
siphon trap should be fixed under every bath, lavatory, 
and sink (fig. 27) ; and in the case of kitchen sinks this 
siphon trap should be provided at its lowest point with 
a screw cap, capable of removal, in order to clear the 
trap of sediment and grease. The waste-pipes from the 
upper floors can be carried through the external walls 
to discharge into the open head of a rainwater pipe 
(fig. 27), divided if necessary into lengths for this pur- 
pose; and every rainwater pipe must be disconnected 
from the drain at its foot, by opening on the iron grat- 
ing over a stoneware siphon yard gulley. The base- 
ment waste-pipes may discharge into yard gullies by 
side inlets (fig. 27). When it is impossible to avoid 
having a long waste-pipe, this must be ventilated by a 
pipe of its own diameter carried up outside the house to 
a convenient point. 

The overflow pipes of cisterns should be made to serve as 
"warning" pipes, by being carried through the exter- 
nal wall and left open at a point where any escape of 
water through them would be capable of observation. 

The surface water from yards and areas should be car- 
ried off by those siphon gullies which receive the waste 
waters from the house (fig. 27), because these gullies are 
always efficiently trapped in dry weather. Yard gullies 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 137 

used for surface water only, become untrapped in dry 




FIG. 27. Disconnection of Rain Water and Waste Pipe over Siph( 
Yard Gulley. 



138 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

weather, owing to the evaporation of the water in them. 
These siphon gullies are connected with branch drains 
which join the main drain in the inspection or man- 
hole chambers before referred to ; they require to be 
cleansed periodically of sand and dirt which collect at 
the bottom of the trap. 

In large houses it is found that the sand and fat or 
grease discharged through the kitchen or scullery sink 
are apt to lodge in the drain from the gradual solidifica- 
tion of the grease as the water cools, and so form an 
obstruction. It is usual in such cases to cause the 
waste pipe (2-inch pipe, trapped under the sink) to dis- 
charge into a grease trap instead of into a yard gulley. 
This grease trap (see fig. 28) may with advantage be 




FIG. 28. Flushing Gulley for Grease. A. Connection with flush 
tank. B. Entrance of sink waste-pipe. C. Connection with drain. 

connected with an automatic siphon flush tank (stone- 
ware). The hot water from the sink is cooled on enter- 
ing a large volume of cold water in the trap, the grease 
solidifies and rises to the top, whilst the sand sinks to 
the bottom of the tank. When the flush tank discharges, 
the grease is thoroughly broken up by the sudden in- 
rush of the large volume of water, and is then carried 
along through the drain without any opportunity being 
given to it to deposit on the sides or floors of the pipes. 
To carry off the water used for washing down laun- 
dries, sculleries, and dairies, the floor should slope to a 
channel leading to a yard gulley outside the house ; 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 139 

in some cases it is necessary to provide a drain, which 
should be protected by an Antill or some form of lip 
trap at the end inside the building-, whilst the other end 
discharges into a yard gulley by a side inlet. 

The house drainage arrangements, described above, 
have for their object: (i) the speediest possible re- 
moval from the house to the public sewer of excretal 
and other refuse by means of water ; (2) the prevention 
of deposit of foul matter in any part of the drainage 
system, and of percolation into the soil of polluting 
liquids; (3) the establishment of a current of air 
through every part of the soil drains and pipes, in order 
to disperse any foul gases that may form, and allow 
them to escape with safety into the open air; (4^ the 
prevention of any entry of air from soil pipes, drains, 
and waste-pipes, into the house; (5) the exclusion of 
the air of the common sewer from the house drain and 
the house; the last being, perhaps, the most important, 
as the air of the public sewer may at any time contain 
the active germs of specific disease. 

Objects (4) and (5) are to a great extent attained, as 
we have seen, by means of traps or water seals, and the 
question arises, " How far do such traps carry out the 
objects for which they are designed ?" Siphon traps are 
the most cleanly of all traps, because they present no 
corners or angles where deposit can accumulate, and 
are most easily flushed clean. Their liability to siphon- 
age we have considered, and we have endeavoured to 
show that it can be obviated by a sufficient depth of 
siphon providing an efficient seal of water, and by 
adequate ventilation. There is, however, another dis- 
advantage common to all water traps, which is that 
the water will absorb gases on one side of the trap, and 
give them off on the other, so that foul air from the 



I4O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

drain or sewer may be given off only, however, to an 
inconsiderable extent into a house, notwithstanding- the 
presence of the trap. The only remedy for such a state 
of things is the prevention of foul air accumulations by 
adequate ventilation. We have seen that this is possible 
in properly designed house drainage, and it only re* 
mains for the public authorities in charge of the public 
sewers to take the necessary precautions to prevent the 
formation of foul gases in the sewers, or to disperse 
them when formed. The proper ventilation of drains 
and soil pipes can only be effected where there is an in- 
let for fresh air at one end of the system, and an outlet 
for foul air at the other end. Where there is an outlet 
but no inlet, the pipes must be always full of foul air, 
though not under pressure ; for there can be then no 
renewal of the air in them by the passage of fresh air 
currents. 



Defective Sanitary Arrangements in Houses. 

We have already indicated the principles on which 
houses should be drained, and the chief methods by 
which these principles may be carried into practice. In 
examining houses, all sorts of appliances and arrange- 
ments will be found, departing more or less from the 
sound principles we have laid down, and we will now 
briefly describe a few of the sanitary defects more com- 
monly found in houses. 

Drains, rectangular or oval in shape, constructed of 
bricks set in mortar without any cement, and of large size 
(18 inches or more in diameter), are not unusually found 

* For further information on .this subject reference may be made to 
Professor Corfield's Article in Our Homes. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 141 

running" under the basements of houses, and are some- 
times connected with cesspools in these positions. These 
brick drains, although originally intended only to carry 
off surface and house waters, will be found to receive the 
water-closet discharges as well. They invariably leak, 
for the mortar becomes loosened from the bricks, and 
water finds its way out through these open spaces ; in 
some cases all the liquid leaks out of the drain to satu- 
rate the surrounding soil, whilst the solids accumulate 
in the drain until it is completely blocked. As the 
brick drain communicates directly with the sewer, rats 
find their way into it, and pushing- through the loosened 
bricks, form runs under the house sometimes into the 
larder which become passages for foul air. To ascer- 
tain if a brick drain exists under a house, the ground 
must be taken up, or the sewer can be entered, if large 
enough, and the drain examined where it joins the 
sewer. 

Pipe drains are always preferable to leaky brick 
drains, but all sorts of mistakes are made in laying pipe 
drains, and the resulting- evils are similar to those 
arising from brick drains. In the first place the pipes 
may be of improper material, such as unglazed porous 
earthenware, and without proper sockets. If glazed 
stoneware socketted pipes are used, the drain may be 
laid for the whole or part of its length with insufficient 
fall, or with a fall the wrong- way. Again the pipes 
used may be and generally are much too large ; 
9-inch pipes where 4-inch would be sufficient; or the 
pipes may be laid the wrong way (fig. 29) with the 
socket end downwards or towards the sewer. 

The pipes are sometimes laid dry, i.e., without any 
luting material in the joints, or the luting material used 
may be clay, which is soon washed out of the joints. 



142 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



Even where the joints are luted with cement, if the drain 

is laid on uneven ground, 
settlement takes place, and 
the cement joints become 
cracked and leaky. 

Bends in drains are often 
made by fitting straight 
pipes into one another, the 
result being an open joint 
on the side of the drain witt^ 
the greater curvature. The 
junctions of branch drains 
are frequently made by 
knocking a hole in one side 
of the main drain sufficiently 
large to receive the end of 
the branch, which projects 
more or less and constitutes 
an obstruction, the hole 
being filled in with clay or 
cement. Even where proper 
junction pipes are used, the 
junction may be made the 
reverse way, so that sewage 
from the branch enters the 
main drain in a direction 
opposed to the flow of sew- 
age in it. 

Where a small pipe joins 
a larger pipe, the junction 
is often effected without a 
diminishing pipe by placing 

FIG. 29. A. Drain laid the right the socket end of the small 
way. B. Drain wrongly laid. p i pe into the socket of the 



( 

( 

Kl 

t 

[ 


y-Xvx- 








-fl 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 143 

larger pipe, and the joint that results is most defective 




144 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



(fig 1 . 30). In this case also, the smaller pipes will be all 
laid the wrong- way (with the socket end downwards), 
and junctions will be wrongly connected in a direction 
opposed to the flow of sewage. The evils arising 1 from 
such defects in drains, are leakages of foul liquid into 
the soil, escape of foul air, and formation of foul de- 
posits in the drains, leading- eventually to complete 
obstruction. 

House drains were, and are still, almost invariably 
connected directly with the common sewer, an iron flap 
trap only being placed over the opening of the drain 




FIG. 31. Sink with Double Trapped Waste Pipe. A. Bell-Trap. 
B. Dipstone Trap. 

into the sewer. This flap trap affords no protection 
against the passage of foul air or rats from the sewer 
into the drain. It was formerly the custom to place a 
dipstone trap (fig. 31) on the course of the drain to pre- 
vent the passage of foul air up it. It consisted of a 
brick chamber of some depth retaining water, into 
which dipped a stone fixed in the roof of the trap. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 145 

This trap not being 1 self-cleansing becomes choked with 
deposit, which putrefies and causes a most offensive 
nuisance. Where disconnection is practised, it is not 
uncommon to find siphons too large, or of improper 
construction, and incapable of complete flushing; in 
some cases the siphon is so constructed that the outlet 
is higher than the inlet, with the result that the sewage 
is backed up in the drain (fig. 32). One of the worst 
forms is that in which a vertical access pipe rises from 
the dip of the trap, for in this pipe solid matters are 
bound to accumulate. 

Soil pipes are very commonly found fixed inside the 
house. If of lead, the pipe may be longitudinally 
seamed for its whole length, perforations being- frequent 
in the seam of solder, and the joints formed by slipping 
one length of pipe inside the other. Cast-iron pipes 
with loose packed joints occasionally do duty as soil 
pipes, and may perhaps take rain water as well. Zinc 
is occasionally used for soil pipes; where it has been 
long- in use, it is sure to have numerous perforations. 
In old houses the soil pipe is almost invariably unven- 
tilated, that is to say it is not open, but closed at its 
highest point. The foul air in unventilated pipes acts 
on the lead (or zinc) walls, and gradually dissolves 
them, forming holes through which foul air or liquids 
escape. But such closed soil-pipes are often in reality 
though not so intended ventilated into improper 
places, for the foul air in drain and soil pipe is sure to 
find some way out. Where the waste-pipes of baths, 
sinks, or lavatories, are connected directly with the D 
trap under a water-closet, with the soil pipe, or with 
the drain, foul air will find its way out through these 
waste-pipes and through bends in them, or through bell 
traps into the house. Another ready means of exit is 

L 



146 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the waste-pipe to the safe-tray under a bath or water- 




closet, when connected with the soil pipe or drain. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 147 

But the most important, because the most dangerous, 
is the direct connection of the - overflow or standing- 
waste-pipe of a cistern used for drinking- water, with 
the drain or soil pipe (see fig. 20). The foul air rises 
through this pipe and escapes under the lid of the 
cistern over the surface of the water, which readily 
absorbs the foul gases and suspended matters (possibly 
disease germs), and a most dangerous pollution is 
thereby caused. Other means by which foul air can 
escape from unventilated drains, are bell traps (fig. 30) 
in the basement of the house (kitchen or scullery), or 
in yards and areas, and rainwater pipes directly con- 
nected with the drains. In this last case also, foul air 
will escape through the loose joints of these pipes, 
which may be in close proximity to bedroom windows. 

With an unventilated drain, water traps even the 
best designed, as we have already seen are not effec- 
tual safeguards against foul air entering the house. 
Bell traps, which present so small a seal of water, and 
which are usually choked with rubbish, are worse than 
useless to prevent the passage of foul air. It is very 
usual, too, to find the bell removed and the trap con- 
sequently gone, because the obstruction to the flow of 
water through them is so great. The aspirating effect 
of fires inside a house must not be lost sight of; the 
draught up the chimney tends to draw air towards 
it from any opening into the room, and thus it often 
happens that drain or sewer air is drawn into living 
rooms. 

Where some attempt has been made to ventilate the 
soil pipe, it is often either most absurdly inadequate, as 
when a i-inch pipe is carried up as ventilator to a 
4-inch soil pipe, or it is improperly carried out, as when 
a rainwater pipe acts as ventilator to the soil pipe. 

L2 



148 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Besides the danger of foul air escaping* into windows, 
especially attic windows under which the rainwater 
pipe often commences, it is obvious that during a storm 
of rain when it is most necessary to provide a safe 
means of exit for displaced drain air, the ventilator will 
be running full of water and will be useless. 

The pan closet and D trap are perhaps the most com- 
mon of all sanitary (or insanitary) appliances. They 
must, wherever found, be replaced by improved forms 
of closet and trap. The pan closet is usually supplied 
with water from the same cistern that supplies drinking 
water in the following manner (fig. 20): the supply 
pipe is connected with a small service box at the 
bottom of the cistern. Water is admitted into the ser- 
vice box by a spindle valve guarding an opening in the 
top of the box, this valve being connected with the 
handle of the water-closet by wires and cranks. An 
air-escape pipe rises from the service box to give exit 
to displaced air. When the handle of the closet is 
pulled up, the spindle valve is raised from its seat, 
water enters the service box, and air is forced up the 
escape pipe to be discharged over the surface of the 
water in the cistern. Now the supply pipe and ser- 
vice box are always full of air, which ascending from 
the closet basin is very liable to be foul, and it is this 
air which escapes over the water of the cistern, and 
may impart to it disease- producing qualities. The con- 
tagia of the infectious diseases are probably particulate 
organisms which may be held suspended in the air of 
drains and sewers, and are liable in this way to be 
brought into contact with water. But water is also 
capable of dissolving foul gases in contact with it, and 
it is this property which often imparts such an offensive 
smell to the water of cisterns supplying pan closets, or 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. I /J.Q 

with overflow pipes connected directly with D traps or 
soil pipes. 

Hopper water-closets are often found to be supplied 
with water direct from the house main. During- an 
intermittence of the water service, the tap may be left 
open, and foul air or liquid filth may at such times be 
sucked up from the closet basin into the water pipes. 
Several severe epidemics of enteric fever have been 
traced to this cause. 



Sewers. 

Sewers are underground channels designed to receive 
and convey away by gravitation the rainfall and waste 
waters of the town, and where the water-carriage sys- 
tem has been adopted, solid excretal refuse as well. In 
former times, and in some towns at the present day, as 
at Dublin, if a river or stream passed through or near 
a town, the sewers took the shortest available course to 
the banks of the stream and there discharged each 
sewer by its own outfall. When it became no longer 
possible for towns to discharge their crude sewage into 
streams in this manner, intercepting- sewers of large size 
had to be constructed to receive the sewage of the tri- 
butary sewers; and these intercepting sewers, when 
united to form one or more main outfall sewers, conduct 
the sewage outside the town, there to be discharged 
into the stream in its crude state, or after it has under- 
gone some process of purification. 

As we have already seen, brick sewers as originally 
constructed, perform a double function ; they_ar_drains 
as well as sewers; for not being constructed watertight 
'they drain the soil by admitting subsoil water, and they 



I5O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

may also be used to convey away the sewage. By per- 
manently lowering the level of the subsoil water in 
towns, these sewers had an important effect in improv- 
injglhe health of the inhabitants. Dr. Buchanan in his 
well known Report (qth Report of the Medical Officer of 
the Privy Council} has shown, that the effect of drying the 
soil, in the case of towns where the level of the subsoil 
water was previously high, was to greatly diminish (by 
\ to ^) the death- rate. from phthisis. The connection 
between phthisis and moisture in the soil, which had 
been previously pointed out by Dr. Bowditch of Massa- 
chusetts, was thus confirmed by Dr. Buchanan ; and this 
discovery is one of the most interesting and most impor- 
tant, in its bearing on the public health, in the whole 
range of sanitary science. 

But the beneficial influence of sewers acting as drains 
has an undoubted drawback, viz., that drain sewers will 
just as readily permit of foul liquids percolating out 
of them through their walls to pollute the surrounding 
soil and contaminate ground water and ground air in 
the neighbourhood, as of subsoil water entering them. 
That such escape of foul water does take place, is 
plainly shown by the fact that in London with its drain 
sewers all shallow well-waters have been found to be 
polluted with sewage, and the wells have in consequence 
been closed. The pollution of the ground air has also an 
important bearing on health, as such air is liable to be 
drawn into houses, whose basements are not thoroughly 
concreted over. It is now the practice of all engineers 
to construct sewers as far as possible water-tight, and 
to provide other means for draining the soil. The 
drainage of the subsoil, being so important a considera- 
tion from its bearing on the public health, must not be 
lost sight of in those towns, which by reason of a low 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. ^51 

situation, or an impervious subsoil, have the under- 
ground water but a few feet from the surface. 

The combined system. In this system, the__sewers are 
designed to receive the rain or such part of it as does 
not evaporate or sink into the soil falling- over the area 
covered by the town, as well as the sewage proper. The 
amount of evaporation depends larg-ely on the tempera- 
ture of the air ; but even in summer it is found in towns, 
where a large part of the surface exposed to rainfall 
consists of roofs and paved surfaces of yards, courts, and 
streets (especially also where there are steep gradients), 
that from one-half to three-quarters of the rain falling- 
reaches the sewers. It is, therefore, necessary to con- 
struct the sewers of size sufficient to take a large part of 
the rain falling during heavy storms, such as J inch of 
rain in 2 or 3 hours or less ; otherwise, if no storm 
overflows are provided, the sewers in low-lying districts 
are overcharged, and cellars and basements are flooded. 
In London the intercepting sewers were constructed to 
receive \ inch of rain over the whole area sewered in 
24 hours (including subsoil water) ; but storm overflows 
direct into the Thames relieve these sewers during 
heavy storms. When a storm occurs after a time of 
drought, the sewers are flushed of accumulated deposit, 
and the sewage which escapes by the storm overflows is 
often very strong and foul, and productive of nuisance 
in the river. At high water, too, the storm overflows are 
tide-locked, and then low-lying districts may be flooded. 

To prevent deposit, sewers should be rendered self- 
cleansing- by being constructed with a sufficient gradient, 
and of a size suitable to the volume of sewage which 
they will ordinarily be required to carry. According" to 
Mr. Baldwin Latham, sewers of from 12 to 24 inches 
diameter should have a gradient sufficient to produce a 



152 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

velocity of not less than 2j feet per second, and in 
sewers of larger dimensions in no case should the velo- 
city be less than 2 feet per second. For large sewers a 
less gradient is required than for small sewers to pro- 
duce the same velocity ; but the volume of the sewage 
to be conveyed must be very much greater for the large 
than for the small sewer. A sewer 10 feet in diameter 
having a fall of 2 feet per mile ; a sewer 5 feet in dia- 
meter having a fall of 4 feet per mile; a sewer 2 feet 
in diameter having a fall of 10 feet per mile ; and a 
sewer i foot in diameter with a fall of 20 feet per mile, 
will all have the same velocity of flow, but the volume 
of sewage in the lo-foot sewer must be 100 times, in the 
5-foot sewer 25 times, and in the 2-foot sewer 4 times 
the volume of sewage in the i-foot sewer. 

To calculate the discharge from sewers the following 
formula is generally used. 

Let V = velocity of flow in feet per minute. 
,, D = hydraulic mean depth. 
F = fall in feet per mile. 

Then V = 55 (>/D~x~2F). 

If A = sectional area of current of fluid, V X A = 
discharge in cubic feet per minute. The hydraulic 
mean depth is the sectional area of the current of fluid 
-f- the wetted perimeter (that part of the circumference 
of the sewer wetted by the fluid flowing through it) ; in 
circular sewers it is one-fourth the diameter. 

In modern systems of sewerage, the sewers are laid 
in straight lines with manholes at every point of change 
of direction. The inspection and cleansing of the 
sewers is much facilitated by such an arrangement. 
The best foim of sewer in all cases in which the volume 
of sewage undergoes fluctuation, is the egg-shaped; 
the small end of the egg downwards. In this form, 






DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. Ij3 

there is a greater depth of sewage and less contact with 
the walls of the sewer, and consequently less friction, 
than in any other form. For outfall sewers, in which 
the volume of sewage to be conveyed is large and 
uniform, Mr. Baldwin Latham advises the circular form, 
as it is cheaper and stronger when constructed. Up to 
18 inches internal diameter, sewers should be circular 
in section ; and for these small sizes stoneware, cement, 
or concrete pipes are better than sewers constructed of 
brick. Mr. Latham's experience is that no public sewer 
should be less than 9 inches in diameter, owing to the 
risk of smaller pipes becoming obstructed and stopped 
up by articles improperly introduced into the house 
drains. 

Well-burnt, tough, impervious bricks, or glazed fire- 
bricks should be used in the construction of sewers ; 
especially in the construction of the lowest segment or 
invert of the sewer, which is the part most liable to 
wear and erosion from the passage of the suspended 
matters in the sewage over it. For the smaller sewers 
suitably curved bricks only should be used. Sewers 
under 3 feet in diameter, when laid in good ground, 
may be constructed of 4^-inch brickwork. When laid 
in bad shifting ground, or for larger sewers, 9-inch 
brickwork should be used. Suitably curved stoneware 
blocks are now very generally used for the inverts of 
sewers; their smooth hard upper faces form an excel- 
lent floor for the sewer. When these blocks are made 
hollow, they provide a means of draining off the sub- 
soil water during the construction of the sewer ; but 
engineers do not now advise their use, as the hollow 
block is apt to split from the weight of the sewer built 
over it; and in sandy soils the washing away of sand in 
the subsoil water passing into the subsoil drain may 



154 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

cause settlement of the sewer. The mortar used in 
jointing the bricks should be made of the best Portland 
cement and fine sharp sand. Portland cement is a 
mixture of chalk and clay burnt at a high temperature, 
and subsequently ground very fine. It is stronger and 
capable of bearing greater tensile strains than other 
cements (Roman and Medina), but does not set so 
rapidly. 

Thejseparate system. Where it is intended to convey 
away sewage proper only, storm, surface, and subsoil 
waters being excluded, the sewers need be only of small 
size. Under such circumstances glazed stoneware 
pipes, jointed with Portland cement, are generally used 
to form the tributaries whilst the outfall sewer is con- 
structed of brickwork. Cement or silicated concrete 
pipes have been used, especially in Germany, instead of 
stoneware pipes. They are said to be less brittle, to 
withstand extremes of climate, and to resist the chemical 
action of the sewage better than stoneware pipes. The 
sewers, of whatever material, must receive water-closet 
sewage and waste waters only; all rain water from 
roofs, yards, or areas, must be conveyed by separate 
pipes into surface channels at the sides of the streets, 
when the gradients are sufficient, or into underground 
channels constituting a system of drains quite distinct 
from the sewers. At convenient points the surface 
channels or underground drains should discharge into 
the stream or river, which forms the natural drainage 
bed of the locality. The drainage of the subsoil should 
be effected by agricultural tile drains laid in the same 
trench but above the sewers, and diverted into the 
water courses at all suitable points. 

The advantages of the separate system are (i) the 
volume of sewage to be conveyed outside the town is 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 155 

small as compared with that to be dealt with by the 
combined system ; its daily or seasonal fluctuations, 
and the total quantites to be dealt with, can be calcu- 
lated approximately from the population and water 
supply (points of great importance where the sewage 
has to be pumped to the outfall, or purified before being- 
discharged) ; (2) the sewage is uniform in composition 
because protected from dilution with storm waters, and 
its purification and utilisation are undertaken with much 
less difficulty than is the case with sewage which is 
sometimes strong, and at others very weak, from ad- 
mixture with rain and subsoil waters; (3) the sewers 
being small and having smooth walls, are more fre- 
quently flushed, and there is less tendency to deposit, 
with formation of foul gases, than in the case of the 
larger brick sewers; (4) the cost of the system is very 
much less than that of the combined system. 

The disadvantages are, (i) that every house must 
have two drains or two sets of pipes one for sewage 
and the other for rain water; and this gives rise to 
mistakes on the part of builders, who occasionally con- 
nect the pipes with the wrong system ; (2) that the 
surface water from yards and streets is often foul, espe- 
cially when a storm succeeds a period of drought, un- 
less the yards and streets are constantly cleansed and 
well scavenged. It is, however, sufficiently obvious 
that these obstacles can be overcome, and in no way 
counterbalance the undoubted advantages of the sepa- 
rate system. 

Junctions between pipe sewers should be made by 
properly curved pipes, as explained under house drains. 
Where two or more tributary sewers join a main sewer, 
a manhole should be built over the point of connection, 
with curved channels in its floor for the connecting pipes. 



156 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



Inspection, Flushing, and Ventilation of Sewers. 

In any system of sewerage it is necessary to provide 
means of access to the sewers for their cleansing and 
for the removal of accumulations of deposit. Manholes 
are shafts sunk from the surface of the road to the sewer, 
by which the scavengers can descend. They are con- 
structed of brickwork and provided with a locked iron 
door at the street level. In streets where there is much 
traffic, the shaft is sunk from the footway perpendicu- 
larly for a short distance, and then carried down by 
means of steps to the side of the sewer. In other 
cases the manholes are sunk from the middle of the 
road to the crown of the sewer. They have also a 
variety of other uses ; they are used as points of 
junction between tributary pipe sewers and the main 
sewer, curved channels being constructed in the floor 
of the manhole ; and they are also the points at which 
flushing gates may most advantageously be fixed in 
brick sewers. 

Flushing gates are sluices made to fit the whole or 
part of the sectional area ot a sewer. When in position 
they dam back the sewage in the sewer above, and on 
being raised, or liberated, the sewage so stored rushes 
forwards and effectually flushes the sewer below. Self- 
acting gates are often used for this purpose. The gate 
being hinged below its centre, the pressure of the 
sewage on that portion of the gate which is below the 
hinge, fixes it in position. As the sewage rises, the 
upper portion of the gate is likewise exposed to the 
pressure of the sewage, and presenting a larger area 
than the part below the hinge, a point is at length 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 157 

reached when the gate tilts, assuming- a horizontal 
position, and the sewage escapes. Flushing gates are 
not used for flushing the upper ends of brick sewers, nor 
are they used for flushing pipe sewers. For these pur- 
poses, automatically discharging siphon flush tanks find 
a most useful application. They should be supplied 
with water from a tap connected with the town water- 
mains, and regulated to discharge at intervals as re- 
quired. 

It might be thought that the pipe sewers used with 
the separate system do not require artificial flushing. 
But experience has taught otherwise, and it must be 
remembered also, that under this system the sewers are 
not flushed by storm waters. There can be no doubt 
that heavy rainfall is very effectual in flushing sewers ; 
but besides introducing a quantity of grit and sand from 
the roads, rainfall cannot be depended upon in this 
climate to occur at properly recurring intervals, and is 
often absent for long periods in summer when sewer 
deposits are most abundant and most offensive. 

Town sewers are underground channels which form 
air communication shafts from one house to another, in 
all cases except where a house drain is disconnected 
from the sewer by a water trap and opening to the 
external air. Disease poisons excreted in one house 
may at any time pass by means of this aerial connection 
into the drainage pipes of another house in its neigh- 
bourhood or remote from it. It is impossible for any- 
one, whether he be chemist, biologist, or physician, to 
determine when sewer air is free from disease poisons 
and when it is not ; hence the acknowledged necessity 
of preventing any entrance of drain or sewer air into 
houses, and the universal adoption by competent authori- 
ties of some means of ventilating drains and sewers, and 



158 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of giving- exit to the mixed air and gases at a point as 
remote as possible from dwellings. 

The ventilation of sewers is, therefore, a matter of the 
greatest importance, as the health of a sewered district 
largely depends on the efficiency of the sewer ventila- 
tion. The poisons or infective agents of cholera and 
typhoid fever, and of certain forms of dysentery and 
diarrhoea, are contained in the discharges from the 
bowels of the patients suffering from these diseases; and 
on reaching the sewers it is now generally believed that 
such discharges may impart their infective qualities to 
large volumes of sewage, and to the deposits and slime 
which are so frequently found on the floors and walls of 
the sewers. There can be little doubt, too, that the air in 
contact with such infected materials also becomes im- 
bued with specifically contagious properties. The infec- 
tive material is in all probability although actual 
demonstration is still wanting due to active living 
organisms or their germs of the class bacteria, which 
after evacuation from the body of the patient find a 
suitable soil for growth and propagation in sewage and 
, sewer deposits. 

The mode in which sewer air becomes infected is not 
known; but it is probable that during evaporation, or 
from the bursting of bubbles of gas when the sewage is 
putrefying, suspended matters, amongst which may be 
the particulate organisms of disease, are projected from 
the liquids into the air in contact with them, in which 
they float until the air becoming stagnant they tend to 
subside. On some such hypothesis as this, we can ac- 
count for those epidemics of enteric fever which have 
undoubtedly been caused by inhaling sewer air, or by 
contamination of drinking water in cisterns and mains 
by such air. Acute sore throat and diphtheria have 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 1 5Q 

also been caused by vitiation of the atmosphere with 
sewer air ; and it is a remarkable fact that in General 
and Lying-in Hospitals, in which the air of the wards 
was liable to pollution with drain and sewer air, sur- 
gical fever, erysipelas, pyaemia, septicaemia, and puer- 
peral fever, were very prevalent and very fatal ; but 
after measures had been taken to improve the drainage 
and sewerage of these institutions, and prevent any pos- 
sibility of foul air gaining access to the wards, such dis- 
eases very greatly diminished, and in some cases totally 
disappeared. 

We must bear in mind also that sewage contains the 
water used for washing clothes from patients suffering 
from other infectious diseases, as small-pox, scarlet fever, 
and measles, and may therefore at any time contain the 
specific poisons of such diseases. As regards the possi- 
ble spread of these diseases by infected sewer air, we at 
present possess no definite proofs of such an occurrence 
ever having taken place, however probable we might 
think it to be. 

Chemical examination shows that sewer air is subject 
to wide variations. A sample of air taken from a 
choked sewer in Paris was found by Parent Duchatelet 
to contain only 13*79 P er cent - of ox yg"^ n > and as much 
as 2-99 per cent, of sulphuretted hydrogen. The air of 
closed cesspools in Paris must often have been quite as 
deficient in oxygen to have caused those symptoms of 
partial asphyxia from which the workmen, employed to 
empty them, occasionally suffered. 

Where the quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen has 
been very great, sudden death has in some instances 
resulted amongst those who opened the cesspool. 

In the London sewers the air is very much purer. 
The most impure sample taken by Dr. Russell from the 



l6o HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Padding-ton sewers was found to contain 0*5 I vols. CO 2 , 
2O'7 vols. O, and 78*79 vols. N in 100 vols. In so far as 
these constituents are concerned, this air is not very 
much more impure than that found in crowded dwelling- 
rooms, but then the London sewers are comparatively 
well ventilated. The most offensive gases are given off 
from sewers in which deposit forms, such as the old- 
fashioned brick conduits with flat bottoms, or oval 
sewers in which a portion of the invert has sunk below 
its proper level, or sewers which are too large for the 
volume of sewage they ordinarily convey, and in which 
the deposits and slime, formed on their floors and sides, 
are not removed by flushing 1 . Outfall sewers in which 
sewage is, for any reason, backed up and stagnant 
during a portion of the day, are also liable to become 
sewers of deposit. The deposit rapidly putrefies, giving 
off offensive gases, which escape through the nearest 
ventilator; or should the sewer be insufficiently venti- 
lated, the foul gases find an exit through house drains 
and traps into the interior of houses. 

It is probable that sewage which has become specifi- 
cally infected with enteric fever evacuations is quite as 
dangerous when fresh and undecomposed, and therefore 
little offensive, as when it is undergoing fermentation 
and putrefaction. An epidemic of this disease at 
Croydon in 1875 was traced by Dr. Buchanan to the 
entry of air from unventilated pipe sewers into the 
houses of those attacked. The sewage was carried 
away by these pipe sewers in a fresh and undecom- 
posed condition, and Dr. Buchanan expressed at that 
time the opinion that "the material of contagion is 
perhaps less likely to be active in excrement that has 
passed into fcetid decomposition." On the other hand, 
air in contact with putrid sewage contains a far larger 






DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. l6l 

proportion of suspended organic matters amongst 
which may be floating the particulate disease organisms 
than air over fresh sewage, and in numerous recorded 
epidemics of enteric fever due to sewer air escaping- 
from foul unventilated sewers, we find that the exhala- 
tions were most offensive, showing that the sewage was 
in a putrid condition. 

In all sewers, owing to the constant variation of the 
flow of sewage through them, some deposit forms on 
their sides, which being alternately wet and dry, rapidly 
putrefies, and parts with its putrefactive ferments to the 
sewage flowing by. A deposit of sewer slime from the 
Liverpool sewers was found by the late Prof. Parkes 
and Dr. Burdon Sanderson to contain ammonia, ni- 
trates, and large quantities of fungi and bacteria. That 
sewage as well as slime deposit may form a favourable 
soil for the growth and germination of such disease 
organisms, as are capable of existing outside the ani- 
mal body, is highly probable, when we consider that 
sewage contains organic matters of animal and vege- 
table origin, phosphates, and ammonia, all affording 
food for the growth of microbes, which is likewise aided 
by the warmth of the sewage and the darkness of the 
sewer. In pipe sewers there is less tendency to deposit 
than in brick sewers of larger diameter, owing to the 
smooth internal surfaces of the pipes, and to the greater 
frequency with which they are washed, as pipe sewers are 
more often running full or nearly full than brick sewers. 

Natural ventilation of sewers, by which movements of 
air in them are produced, is due to a variety of causes, 
the most important of which are : (i) where there is a 
strong and rapid stream, a current of air is produced 
which is in the same direction as the sewage stream, 
and of proportional velocity. Most of the openings into 

M 



l62 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the sewers will be inlets for fresh air, drawn in by the 
current of air beneath, which finally escapes through 
the outfall sewer. (2) During- the cold months of the 
year, the temperature inside a sewer is, owing- to the 
warmth of the sewage, higher (average about 7 F.) 
than that of the external atmosphere, consequently the 
warmer sewer air tends to rise and be replaced by the 
cold external air. During the warm months of the year 
the temperature of the sewer is by day often consider- 
ably cooler than the external air. In spring and 
autumn the temperatures inside and outside are more 
nearly equal. (3) The passage of hot liquids from 
houses and from factory boilers causes a rise in the 
temperature of the sewage and expansion of the sewer 
air. Blowing off steam from boilers into sewers causes 
a great rise of pressure, and unless ample ventilation is 
provided, house traps will be forced. (4) During the 
early part of the day, the volume of sewage in the 
sewers increases rapidly to a maximum, and air is con- 
sequently slowly expelled to be replaced by inflowing 
air as the volume of sewage decreases. The rising of 
the tide in an outfall sewer, not protected by a tidal 
valve, will also displace air, but the displacement is so 
gradual as to be almost inappreciable. Where storm- 
waters are admitted into the sewers, sudden heavy rain- 
falls exert a marked influence in expelling air, which is 
somewhat counterbalanced by the aspirating effect 
produced by the flow of air in the direction of the cur- 
rent. (5) Sudden falls of barometrical pressure cause 
air and gases dissolved in the sewage to be given off. 
(6) Sudden variations in temperature of the external 
air produce variations in pressure of the sewer air. A 
high temperature favours decomposition of the sewage 
and evolution of gases. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 763 

Opening's into the crowns of sewers from the surface 
of the roadway should be made at distances of not more 
than i oo yards apart. Some of these will act as inlets 
and others as outlets, and the pressure of air in the 
sewer will at no time be able to rise sufficiently to force 
the traps on house pipes and drains. Where the sewers 
are insufficiently ventilated, or where the opening- are 
blocked with clogged charcoal trays, sewer air will find 
its way past the iron flap valves usually placed so as to 
cover the openings of the house drains into the sewer; 
and if there is no disconnection trap on the house drain, 
such air will escape into the house through defective 
joints in the drain or soil pipe, through bell traps in the 
floor or on waste-pipes, or by means of the overflow 
pipe from the cistern will cause a very dangerous 
pollution of the water. The warmth of the interior of 
inhabited houses, and the draught produced by fires 
tend to exert a distinct aspirating- action on the colder 
and heavier sewer air "laid on," so to speak, by a 
system of pipes to all parts of those houses, in which no 
disconnection apparatus at the foot of the house drain 
has been fixed. 

It is true that, in such cases, sewer air can usually 
readily escape by means of rain water pipes from the 
roof, directly connected with the drain ; either through 
the loose joints between the different lengths of pipe 
(often close to windows), or at the head of the pipe 
which may be directly under an attic window. During 
heavy rain too, the falling- water will force the confined 
air through trapped or untrapped openings into the 
house. 

The same objections apply to the method of venti- 
lating sewers by means of the soil pipe ventilators of 
houses. It may be safe so long as every joint on drain 

M 2 



164 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

or soil pipe, and every trap on waste-pipes and W.C.'s, 
are sound and in good order ; but directly a defect arises, 
it may be the means of providing- an escape into the 
house of possibly infected sewer air. Where a dis- 
connecting- trap is fixed on the house drain, a 4." pipe 
may be carried up to the ridge of the roof from the 
drain on the sewer side of the trap, its end being left 
open ; and it will be found useful as an exit for sewer 
air when used in combination with road ventilators. 
But it is needful to bear in mind that where rain water 
is admitted to the sewers, during heavy rainfall, when 
ventilation is most required for affording a safe exit 
for suddenly displaced sewer air, house drains or any 
part of them are often useless for this purpose, as their 
openings into the sewer may be sealed by the height at 
which the sewage is flowing in the sewer. 

The best form of street ventilator is a shaft sunk from 
the middle of the roadway to the crown of the sewer. 
Beneath the grating at the surface of the street should 
be placed a dirt box to catch gravel and mud, which 
would otherwise fall into the sewer ; a space being left 
around the box for the passage of air. The dirt box 
should be capable of removal from the surface of the 
road. Ventilators may also be constructed in connec- 
tion with manholes. A shaft is sunk for a short dis- 
tance by the side of the manhole, openings being made 
between them for the passage of air. Mud and gravel 
fall to the bottom of this shaft, from which a pipe con- 
ducts the water to the sewer beneath. The air which 
escapes from the sewers by these street ventilators is 
rapidly diluted with fresh air; and from their position 
in the centre of the roadway, there is the least chance of 
offence to foot passengers or of foul air gaining entrance 
to houses. In narrow courts and streets, especially at 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. \$ 

the upper or dead ends of sewers, these surface venti- 
lators should be replaced by shafts carried up from the 
crown of the sewer to the tops of houses ; for it is de- 
sirable to avoid any risk of foul sewer air collecting- in 
stagnant courts or streets surrounded by buildings, in 
which rapid dilution of the sewer exhalations with fresh 
air might not always take place. Street gullies should 
be effectually trapped, both to prevent mud and sand 
entering the sewers, and to avoid an escape of sewer 
air close to the footways and the fronts of houses. 

Iron wire baskets containing small wood charcoal 
were, at one time, extensively used to filter the air 
escaping through the ventilators. When dry, they exer- 
cise considerable influence in oxidising and deodorising 
organic vapours. But they rapidly become wet from 
rain and moisture, and then they are not only useless 
as deodorisers, but the pores are so clogged as to ob- 
struct all passage of air through them. For these 
reasons their use has been nearly everywhere dis- 
continued. 

Various processes have from time to time been 
patented for deodorising the sewer air escaping from 
street ventilators by passing it through chambers con- 
taining gases generated by gradually mixing different 
chemical solutions. More recently a method of cre- 
mating the sewer air, by passing it over or through a 
gas flame, placed in a chamber at the top of the venti- 
lator, has been tried. By this method the escaping 
sewer air is very highly heated, and consequently steri- 
lised, whilst the combustion of the gas tends to create an 
artificial draught up the sewer ventilator. There can 
be no question that any general adoption of such 
systems is undesirable. If they are successful in 
mitigating nuisance from sewer ventilators they tend to 



l66 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

conceal bad or defective conditions of the sewers them- 
selves, which are primarily the cause of the escape of 
offensive gases, and which therefore should be remedied 
in the first instance. If, on the other hand, the sewers 
are well laid and self cleansing, they are not required at 
all. Should the sewers be so old and dilapidated as to 
be generally offensive throughout a district, it would 
probably prove less expensive in the long run, and far 
more beneficial to the public health, to reconstruct them 
on modern principles, than to inaugurate a system of 
concealing the effects without attacking the cause. 

Where sewers are laid with steep gradients, it is 
found that a current of air tends to pass, in the reverse 
direction to the flow of sewage, from the low to the high 
levels. To prevent the escape of large volumes of foul 
air at the upper parts of a sewered district, it is neces- 
sary to construct at various points a tumbling bay with 
manhole and ventilator opening above at the street 
level, a flap valve being applied to the mouth of the 
sewer delivering sewage over the tumbling bay. Then 
the sewer air in its course upwards, meeting the flap 
valve, is forced to escape into the outer air through 
the ventilator. 

It was at one time thought that by connecting sewers, 
by means of shafts, with a furnace chimney, a powerful 
extractive force, useful in ventilating a large portion of 
the system, would be put in operation. By this method, 
however, a great draught for a short distance only is 
produced, as air rushes in from all openings in the 
neighbourhood to supply the place of that extracted by 
the furnace. Beyond a very short distance no effect is 
produced, and there is besides considerable risk of 
traps in houses being drawn. 

Adequate ventilation is just as necessary for pipe 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 167 

sewers as for brick sewers. The experience at Croydon 
is sufficient proof of this. In his report on the epidemic 
of enteric fever at Croydon in 1875, Dr. Buchanan 
says, "To some extent when sewers are running 1 freely, 
but greatly more when they are not running- freely, 
displacement of air from them is an affair of sewer 
calibre." Displacement of air from the entry of a 
volume of water will be 16 times greater in a 6-inch 
sewer than in a 2-foot sewer, and the displacement will 
be greatly more sudden. " Hence the air in a small 
sewer is liable to be under far greater pressure than 
the air in a large sewer." Numerous openings into the 
outer air must exist for the exit of this displaced air, or 
it will find its way into houses through trapped and 
untrapped pipes. 

Outfall Sewers. In some cases it may be necessary to 
carry the sewage of a town across a river or a valley. 
This may sometimes be done by bridging ; but usually 
the outfall sewer is at too low a level to permit of it. In 
such cases the sewer should be carried across by means 
of an inverted siphon, formed of wrought iron pipes 
with rivetted flange joints, laid in the bed of the river or 
valley. Arrangements must be made for preventing 
the accumulation of solid matters at the lowest point of 
the siphon, resulting eventually in a stoppage, to which 
there is a tendency, unless the current through is of 
sufficient velocity to carry all solid matters with it. 
With this view the sewage may be strained before 
passing through the siphon, or the siphon must be 
periodically flushed. To give exit to air under pressure 
in the siphon, which might prevent its proper action, a 
ventilating- pipe should be attached to the descending 
arm. 



l68 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



THE DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 

The disposal of the sewage of a town or district 
is always a matter for careful inquiry and consideration. 

It is usually the most difficult problem to solve of any 
connected with the sewage question. Fortunately 
since the Rivers Pollution Prevention Act became law 
in 1876, the nature of the problem has been altered. 
The question for a local authority to determine is now, 
not, How to get rid of its crude sewage with the least 
trouble and expense, but, How to purify the crude 
sewage so that it may be admissible into a stream. 
For the Rivers Pollution Prevention Act made it illegal 
to discharge crude sewage into a stream ; this term in- 
cluding rivers, streams, canals, lakes, and watercourses, 
other than watercourses mainly used as sewers, and 
also the sea, to such extent, and tidal waters to such 
point, as may after local enquiry, or on sanitary 
grounds be determined by the Local Government Board. 
It is greatly to be regretted that this act has, in many 
parts of the country, entirely failed to prevent the con- 
tinued pollution of streams, by which the community 
has already so largely suffered. The interests involved 
in the continuance of the existing state of things were, 
and are, too great to be set aside to benefit merely 
the health and comfort of the people. The crude 
sewage and waste refuse of most of our northern 
manufacturing towns still pollute the streams and rivers 
as of yore. 

The evils that result from the discharge of crude 
sewage into the estuaries of rivers, are exemplified in 
the case of the discharge of the crude metropolitan 
sewage into the Thames at Barking and Crossness. It 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. l6g 

is true that in this case the volume of sewage discharged 
is enormous about 150 million gallons daily and it 
has even been calculated that, during very dry weather, 
the sewage in the neighbourhood of the outfalls forms 
one-sixth of the whole volume of the river water. But 
even if the volume of sewage were very much less, there 
are certain circumstances in connection with tidal rivers, 
which are adverse to, or retard that process of self- 
purification by dilution and oxidation, by which only can 
a nuisance and danger to health be overcome. 

Where sewage is discharged into fresh running water 
and at once largely diluted, it becomes in course of 
time to a great extent purified. Distributed through 
a large volume of clean water, the organic matters are 
oxidised by the oxygen dissolved in the water, and by 
that given out by minute water plants (Algae, Diatoms, 
and Desmids), and are assimilated by minute animals 
(Infusoria, Rhizopoda, Entomostraca, Anguillulae, etc.). 
They are thus purified, or got rid of, without the occur- 
rence of putrefaction and the formation of offensive 
gases, which must occur when the sewage is not suffi- 
ciently diluted with fresh water and the temperature of 
the air is high ; the growth of bacterial organisms then 
taking place to such an extent as to cause putrefaction. 
Putrefactive bacteria will no doubt, in time, break up 
complex organic matters into their constituent parts, 
and thus purify sewage ; but the process is one produc- 
tive of nuisance and injury until the ultimate effect is 
produced. 

In the case of tidal rivers, the Reports of the Royal 
Commission on Metropolitan Sewage Discharge show 
that there may be a considerable concentration of 
sewage in the river, forming what has been termed a 
" sewage zone," due to the oscillation of the tides ; for 



170 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the river water into which the sewage is discharged is 
not pure water, but is water that by reason of the tidal 
oscillations has already become contaminated by the 
accumulation of successive previous sewage discharges. 
The only true sources of dilution are the land water 
entering from above and the sea water from the mouth 
of the river. During dry weather when the quantity of 
land water is slight, the displacement of the sewage to- 
wards the sea is very slow (about J mile daily in the 
case of the metropolitan sewage) ; so that the sewage 
discharged on any particular day oscillates up and 
down the river with the tide, and is continually receiv- 
ing fresh increments of sewage. The sewage too that 
is discharged after high water on an ebbing tide will be 
carried up by the flowing tide above the outfall; and 
when neap tides are giving place to spring tides, the 
whole volume of discharged sewage is carried up 
higher and higher above the outfalls every day as the 
spring tides increase. The consequence is that at 
such times the sewage may be carried in the river up to 
or above the town so discharging its sewage. 

The effect too of the sea salts in estuary water is to 
cause a precipitation of organic matters, and a deposit 
of mud, whilst the oxidation and purification processes 
are delayed by their presence. 

On the whole then we see how erroneous is the idea 
that sewage, discharged into the tidal water of a river, 
is at once carried out to sea. What really takes place 
is very different, and the sewage is even at the best of 
times but slowly borne out to sea. In the case of tidal 
rivers, as in those portions of a river which are beyond 
the reach of the tide, the purification of the sewage 
without nuisance, must always be a question of dilution. 
If the volume of sewage discharged is relatively small to 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 

the volume of water in the river, the sewage will in time 
be purified ; but such water can under no circumstances 
be a proper source of supply for drinking- water. If the 
relative proportions of sewage and river water are the 
same, the non-tidal river possesses great advantages 
over the tidal ; for the sewage is at once carried away, 
and cannot return above the outfall, whilst the purifying 
processes are not hampered by the presence of sea 
water. 

Under certain circumstances sewage may be dis- 
charged into the sea without risk of nuisance and 
offence. If the sewage can at all times be borne away 
from the shore out to sea, it becomes mixed with an 
immense volume of water and rendered harmless. The 
danger is, lest sewage should be cast up by the tide on 
the fore-shore, or borne along by currents the whole 
length of the sea front of a town. To avoid such an 
event, the outfall must be chosen at such a spot that the 
sewage, at whatever state of the tide it may be dis- 
charged, shall be carried by currents, where such exist, 
straight out to sea, or at least in a direction away from 
the town. 

The outfall sewer must open below the level of the 
water at all states of the tide, and its mouth should be 
protected by a tidal valve to prevent sea water entering 
it. The prevailing winds should also be studied, to 
prevent the possibility of floating fsecal matters being 
blown back on to the beach. If the town lies at a low 
level, so that its sewers are tide-locked for several hours 
of each tide, tanks must be constructed to retain the 
sewage which accumulates at such periods; or a certain 
length of oval tank sewer must be built for the same 
purpose. 

Tank sewers, however, are very generally productive 



172 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of nuisance. The tide-locked sewage stagnates in them, 
and a copious deposit of sediment takes place which 
gives rise to the formation of foul gases. In such cases 
no amount of ventilation suffices to obviate the nuisance. 
It is better to have recourse to steam pumping at the 
outfall, or to use Shone's Pneumatic Sewage Ejectors to 
relieve the sewers of their accumulated sewage. 

In Shone's system the motive power is compressed air, 
which is conveyed from a central station by wrought 
iron pipes to the ejectors, which are situated in chambers 
beneath the streets at different parts of the town, and 
receive the sewage from the street sewers. When the 
ejectors are full, compressed air is admitted into them 
by appropriate mechanical arrangements, working 
automatically, and the sewage is forced out into a gravi- 
tating sewer at a higher level. The great advantage of 
the system is that good gradients can be given to the 
sewers, for the ejectors are placed at depths below the 
surface of the ground sufficient to permit of house drains 
and street sewers, with which they are connected, 
having a good fall, and the sewage is carried away and 
forced out of the town in a fresh condition. In addition, 
no storage is required as in ordinary pumping, for the 
rate of working of the ejectors varies with the rate of 
flow of the sewage into them, although the air compres- 
sion machinery at the central station works nearly uni- 
formly. Shone's system is now in operation at several 
towns lying on low flat ground, and has been found very 
beneficial in preventing the evils which result from 
absence of proper sewer gradients. 

All sewage cast into the sea is inevitably wasted ; for 
although Sir John Lawes has expressed the opinion that 
sewage is " utilised to a certain extent by the fish 
feeding upon that which the sewage produces," viz., 






DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 173 

minute forms of animal and vegetable life ; yet it has 
been pointed out by Professor Huxley that our great 
sea fisheries are inexhaustible, and that nothing man 
can do can seriously affect the number offish in the sea. 
Even, then, did the fish benefit by the sewage poured 
into the sea an assumption that has not yet been 
proved we should be supplying them with a material 
which they could well do without, and which could never 
bring any return in the shape of larger takes of fish. 



The Purification and Utilisation of Sewage. 

It can safely be said that in this country no stream or 
river should ever receive crude sewage; for so numerous 
are the towns on the banks of nearly every stream, that 
although the sewage of one town might be purified after 
a certain run, it would be quite impossible for any 
stream to purify the successive sewage discharges from 
every town on its banks. As the sewage must be 
purified before discharge, the question arises whether 
it can at the same time be utilised, and made to pay 
the whole or part of the expenses incurred in its puri- 
fication. It becomes necessary then to consider the 
amount and value of the manurial ingredients contained 
in ordinary town sewage. 

In the first place as to the chemical composition of 
sewage. The Rivers Pollution Commissioners give as 
the average in water-closeted towns, in 100,000 parts, 
72-2 of total solid matters in solution, in which there are 
4-696 parts of organic carbon; 2-205 of organic nitrogen ; 
6-703 of ammonia; total combined nitrogen 7-728; 
chlorine 10*66; and an inappreciable quantity of 
nitrogen as nitrates and nitrites. In 100,000 parts 



174 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

there are besides 44*69 of suspended matters, of which 
20-51 are organic, and 24-18 mineral matters. This is 
an average from a large number of analyses ; but it 
must be borne in mind that the sewage of different 
towns varies greatly in character, and that the sewage 
of the same town varies in strength from day to day 
and from hour to hour. To obtain an exact knowledge 
of the average strength of a day's sewage in any town, 
samples must be taken frequently at least every hour 
and to form a sample for analysis, they must be mixed 
in such proportions as are indicated by gauging the 
flow of sewage at the time each sample was taken. In 
this way only can the average composition of the sewage 
be arrived at with anything like exactitude. 

The strength of the sewage depends on the number 
of water-closets in a town (proportion of W.C.'s to 
middens), the amount of water supply per head of the 
population, the amount of waste liquors discharged into 
the sewers from manufactories, and, in the case of 
drain sewers, the amount of rain that has fallen, and of 
subsoil water that has found its way into them. During 
the early part of the day (in dry weather) the sewage of 
any town is strongest, and the flow greatest, whilst at 
night the sewers may be discharging nothing but sub- 
soil water. It is thus seen that the average yearly 
composition of the sewage of any town can only be de- 
termined by such analyses, as we have above indicated, 
carried on through every day of the year. This average 
composition, when determined, may differ very much 
from the average given by the Rivers Pollution Com 
missioners, and the average value of a ton of such 
sewage will differ also, for the greater the dilution the 
less the value. 

The chief valuable ingredients of sewage are the dif- 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 175 

ferent forms of combined nitrogen, the phosphates, and 
salts of potash. The money value of these constituents 
in 100 tons of the sewage of the strength noted above is 
17^.; the dissolved matters being worth 15^., the sus- 
pended 2s. This gives a value to the sewage of about 
2.d. per ton. We have already seen that the yearly 
excretal refuse of an individual of a mixed population is 
worth from 6s. 8d. to Js. (see p. 96), and this refuse, if 
diluted with water to form 40 tons of sewage (an aver- 
age dilution of 24 gallons per head per day), will also 
give a value to the sewage of 2d. per ton. This dilution 
is about that of the London sewage during dry weather. 
It may further be stated that 855 tons of the sewage of 
the composition given by the Rivers Pollution Commis- 
sioners, contain one ton of solid matters (in solution and 
in suspension) estimated to be worth j 5$. 4^. From 
such data as these, calculations might be made of the 
total yearly value of the sewage of any town. But such 
theoretical calculations may be very far from represent- 
ing the real practical value. 

The composition of sewage from midden towns (see 
p. 97) does not differ very materially from that of water- 
closeted towns. The Rivers Pollution Commissioners 
gave as the average composition of midden town sew- 
age in 100,000 parts: total solids in solution 82-4; 
organic carbon 4-181; organic nitrogen 1-975 ; am ~ 
monia 5 '435; nitrogen as nitrates o; total combined 
nitrogen 6-45 i ; chlorine 11*54; total solids in suspen- 
sion 39- 1 1, of which 21-30 are organic matters, and 
17 81 mineral matters. 



Subsidence, Straining, and Precipitation. 
By allowing sewage to settle in tanks, a portion of 



176 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the suspended matters subsides to the bottom, and a 
more or less clarified liquid can be decanted from the 
top. By straining sewage through beds of ashes or 
charcoal, the suspended matters are removed; but the 
filters speedily become clogged and require frequent 
renewal at great expense. 

Certain chemical substances, when mixed with sewage 
prior to its entering settling tanks, cause a more rapid 
and copious precipitation of the suspended matters than 
can be effected by subsidence alone. The number of 
chemicals that have been used or advocated for this 
purpose is enormous, as may be seen on inspection of 
the specifications of patents taken out to protect the in- 
ventors of such processes. Practically only three sub- 
stances are now in use as chemical precipitation agents, 
the others having either proved worthless or too expen- 
sive for general use. Lime as lime-water or milk of 
lime sulphate of alumina, and protosulphate of iron, 
are the substances now used as precipitation agents, 
either singly or in combination. 

The precipitating effect of lime on sewage is due 
partly to its combination with free and partially com- 
bined carbonic acid, forming an insoluble carbonate of 
lime, and partly to its combination with some of the 
organic matters of sewage. These substances subside, 
carrying with them the whole or a part of the suspended 
matters in the sewage, and sink to the bottom of the 
tank, forming the sludge ; whilst a more or less clear 
liquid, the effluent, remains above. If too much lime 
is added, the sludge and effluent being alkaline, tend 
soon to undergo fermentation and decomposition The 
proportion of lime most usually added to the sewage 
is fifteen grains to the gallon of sewage for milk of 
lime (lime slaked with water), and from three to five 






DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 177 

grains to the gallon for lime water (lime dissolved in 
water). 

The precipitating" effect of sulphate of alumina on 
sewage is due to combination of the sulphuric acid with 
lime and other bases in the sewage, whilst the alumina 
hydrate is precipitated in a flocculent condition, en- 
tangling- and carrying- down in its course most of the 
suspended organic matters. The crude sulphate of 
alumina used as a precipitant is acid, so that the effluent 
and sludge are rendered slightly acid by treatment with 
this substance alone. An acid effluent is less prone to 
decompose than an alkaline ; but should it be desired 
to irrigate land with the effluent after leaving 1 the tanks, 
acidity would be harmful because injurious to vegeta- 
tion. The best chemical authorities now recommend 
the use of lime with sulphate of alumina for precipitating 
sewag'e; the, proportions in which they are used being 
such as to render the effluent as nearly neutral as pos- 
sible. For treating 1 sewage of medium strength the 
quantities need not exceed five grains of lime, and 
five grains of sulphate of alumina, per gallon of 
sewage. 

When protosulphate of iron is added to alkaline sew- 
age or to sewage which has been already treated with 
lime, a highly flocculent hydrated protoxide of iron is 
formed, which falls to the bottom of the tank, carrying 
suspended organic matters with it. The iron salt is 
also a powerful antiseptic, preventing further putrefac- 
tion of the sludge and effluent, when used in sufficient 
quantity. But its use is attended with the disadvantage 
that the mudbanks of the stream, into which the effluent 
is discharged, are blackened by the formation of sul- 
phide of iron a somewhat sentimental disadvantage, 
but a very real one. When used with lime, protosul- 



178 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

phate of iron should be added in the proportion of from 
two to five grains per gallon of sewage. 

These three precipitating agents lime, sulphate of 
alumina, and protosulphate of iron cause a more or 
less complete deposition of the suspended matters in 
sewage, and thereby remove the grosser sewage odour 
from the effluent; but they have very little, if any, effect 
in removing from the sewage the organic matters in 
solution, and they leave quite untouched the ammonia, 
which, together with the soluble organic matters, escapes 
in the effluent. Sulphate of alumina is said to have the 
effect of removing five per cent, of the dissolved organic 
matters of sewage, but lime and iron remove none. It 
follows then that the matters precipitated from sewage, 
which form the sludge at the bottom of the tanks, are 
comparatively worthless, whilst the bulk of the valuable 
manurial ingredients remain in the effluent. 

To ensure the most complete clarification of the 
sewage liquid by chemical precipitants, the following 
conditions must be satisfied. The sewage must be fresh 
and undecomposed, and the larger solid bodies should 
be strained from it before the admixture of the chemical 
precipitants. The chemicals must be added to the sew- 
age before it arrives at the tanks, and must be well 
stirred and mixed up with it by means of rotatory 
beaters. There must be sufficient tank accommodation. 
The tanks are best arranged in series, so that the sew- 
age may pass slowly but continuously through two, 
three, or four tanks before the effluent escapes into the 
effluent channel, which should be of considerable length 
and kept scrupulously clean. The tanks must be at least 
four feet deep, and the effluent passing out should flow 
over a weir not more than J inch below the surface into 
the next tank of the series, or into the effluent channel. 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. I7Q 

After a certain period of continuous working-, the flow 
of sewage through the series must be discontinued, and 
the sludge allowed to settle, the clear liquid above being- 
drawn off through float valves into the effluent channel. 
There should be a double set of tanks, in order that the 
treatment of the sewage may continue, whilst the sludge 
is being- removed. The sludge must be frequently re- 
moved or it will putrefy, and black masses will be disen- 
gaged, which, rising to the surface, give off foul gases. 
The tanks, when emptied, must be thoroughly cleansed 
before being refilled. 

Occasionally substances, which act as deodorants or 
antiseptics, are added to the sewage as well as the 
chemical precipitants. Amongst these we may mention 
Black-ash waste (Hanson's process), used in conjunction 
with lime. Black-ash waste is prepared from the re- 
fuse of alkali works, that has been long exposed to the 
air, and contains hyposulphites and sulphites of lime, 
which are powerful reducing or deoxidising agents. 
Black-ash waste has considerable deodorant and anti- 
septic properties, and has proved of service in mitigat- 
ing the pollution of the river Lee the sewage of both 
Tottenham and Leyton being now treated by Hanson's 
process. The addition of manganate of soda and sul- 
phuric acid to chemically treated sewage has been 
recommended by Mr. Dibdin, Chemist to the London 
County Council. These bodies act as oxidation agents. 

Another deodorising method recently introduced is 
that known as the "Amines " process. The sewage is 
treated with milk of lime and with a small quantity of 
herring-brine, which contains a certain percentage of 
the compound ammonia termed methylamine. This 
substance acts as a deodorant and antiseptic, and is said 
to completely sterilise the effluent, so that it undergoes 

N 2 



180 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

no secondary fermentation, whilst the sludge is so far 
deodorised that it can be dried in pits exposed to the 
air, or on the floor of a drying" kiln, without giving rise 
to noxious effluvia. It is now generally recognised that 
the use of deodorants, as auxiliaries to precipitation 
processes, is advantageous, if they merely retard decom- 
position without interfering with oxidation by natural 
agencies, and if at the same time they involve but little 
extra cost. Black-ash waste and herring-brine appear 
to comply with these conditions. 

In the "A. B.C." process now carried on at Aylesbury 
and at Kingston-on-Thames, by the Native Guano 
Company, alum, blood, clay, and animal and vegetable 
charcoal are added to the sewage. The effect of the 
blood is not known, and in the small quantities used 
is probably nil ; the clay acts as a weighting material 
carrying down the precipitated matters; whilst the 
charcoal acts to a certain extent as a deodorant. A 
highly clarified effluent is produced by this process, 
which is, however, a costly one. 

The suspended matters, or sludge, of sewage being 
deposited at the bottom of the settling tanks, the ques- 
tions arise: What is to be done with the clarified 
effluent ? and, How is the sludge to be got rid of ? No 
nuisance will result if the effluent is discharged into a 
quickly running stream or river, whose volume is at 
least 10 times greater than that of the effluent, and 
which is not used below the point of discharge as a 
source of supply for drinking water. The danger is 
lest, during drought in summer, the volume of fresh 
water might considerably diminish ; and, then, the 
effluent sewage not being sufficiently diluted, would 
putrefy and become turbid, forming foul deposits in 
the bed of the stream, and giving rise to offensive ex- 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. l8l 

halations. This would be especially likely to happen 
if, at the same time, the temperature of the air was 
high. By this method, too, all the valuable manurial 
ingredients of sewage run to waste. The only satis- 
factory mode of purifying the effluent sewage, is to 
carry it over land by irrigation, or through specially 
constructed filter beds. 

Where it is not possible to obtain land for this pur- 
pose, the partial purification of the effluent from the 
tanks may be effected by passing it through specially 
constructed filters, consisting of fine sand laid upon 
magnetic oxide and carbide of iron (polarite). The 
magnetic ores of iron exert a powerful oxidising effect 
on the ammonia and organic matters dissolved in the 
effluent, by which these are converted into nitrates and 
nitrites. The slower the filtration, i.e., the longer the 
effluent liquid is in contact with the particles of magnetic 
oxide and carbide, the greater is the purification. The 
filtration must be intermittent to allow of aeration of the 
filter; but the magnetic ores, when once in position, 
never need renewal. When laid in beds of considerable 
thickness, consisting of 12 inches of sand upon 18 inches 
of magnetic carbide and oxide, the filter is capable of 
purifying large volumes of effluent sewage one acre of 
filter bed being sufficient to purity from one to two 
million gallons of clarified sewage in the 24 hours. 

The sludge left at the bottom of the tanks is generally 
swept into a well, and thence pumped out in a semi- 
liquid condition. It contains from 90 to 95 per cent, of 
water. It may be got rid of by allowing it to flow, in 
this liquid condition, along raised carriers on to land, 
into which it is subsequently dug, thereby eventually 
becoming incorporated with the soil. This is the 
method pursued at Birmingham, the sewage being 



l82 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

treated with lime, and the effluent from the tanks being- 
purified by irrigation over the soil of the sewage farm. 
If the semi-liquid sludge is allowed to dry by exposure 
to the air in pits, it invariably causes a nuisance, so that 
it is now the usual practice to press part of the moisture 
out of the sludge by hydraulic filter presses, by which a 
solid cake, containing- 50 to 60 per cent, of moisture, is 
produced. These cakes can be stored up without 
causing any nuisance, and sold or given away according 
to the demand for such sewage manure. They may be 
further dried by heat in drying machines, and then 
ground into a granular condition, containing from 20 to 
30 per cent, of moisture. In this condition the manure 
is far more suitable for application to land, than in the 
form of the coherent cakes which issue from the filter 
presses. 

To calculate the weight of sludge cake formed from a 
given quantity of sludge taken from the tanks, Professor 
Robinson has devised the following formula. 

Let W = weight of sludge from the tanks. 
,, P = percentage of moisture remaining in the 

pressed sludge. 
,, X = weight of sludge cake. 

ThenX= IOW 



100-P 

The average composition of pressed sludge cake from 
the metropolitan sewage, Mr. Dibdin states to be : 
moisture, 58 percent.; organic matter, 16-7 per cent.; 
mineral matter, 25-25 per cent.; ammonia, I per cent.; 
phosphate of lime, 1-44 per cent. The value of a ton 
of this sludge cake, calculating ammonia as worth jd. 
per Ib, is about 17^. This value corresponds with that 
obtained by calculating the suspended matters in 100 
tons of sewage as being worth 2s. For the suspended 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 183 

matters from about 850 tons of sewage will be required 
to produce a ton of sludge cake containing- 50 to 60 per 
cent, of moisture. This is the theoretical value : the 
price obtained from the sale of this sludge cake varies 
in different towns; in some there is no demand for it, 
and it is either burnt in a "destructor" furnace, used 
for raising low-lying grounds, or a small premium is 
paid to farmers for removing it. 



Intermittent Downward Filtration. 

When sewage is filtered through porous soil, it is 
purified to a greater or less extent. This purification is 
partly due to the soil acting as a mechanical filter, 
separating out and retaining the suspended matters in 
the sewage ; but greatly more to the oxidation by the 
soil, of the ammonia and organic matters in the sew- 
age, by which they are converted into nitrates and 
nitrites. This oxidation is in part effected by the air 
between the particles of soil hence the necessity for an 
intermittent application of the sewage, in order that the 
soil may be aerated in its periods of rest ; but chiefly 
by bacterial organisms the nitrifying organisms of 
Schlcesing, Miintz, and \Varrington which exist in the 
upper layers, extending to 3 or 4 feet from the surface, 
of all soils, but chiefly in those rich loamy soils which 
contain much organic matter. The nitrifying organ- 
isms feed on the ammonia and organic matters of sew- 
age, causing their oxidation. They require air and 
oxygen for their growth and life, which are supplied to 
them when the soil is being aerated during its periods of 
rest. The soil or the sewage should also be rich in 
salts of lime, especially the sulphate ; for the nitric and 



184 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

nitrous acids, when formed, must be able to combine 
with bases, or the nitrifying action ceases. 

A very large volume of sewage can be purified on a 
small area of land, if the following conditions are satis- 
fied : The soil must be of a porous and rich loamy 
character. Sandy soils are not efficient purifiers, at 
any rate at first. Clay, and other retentive soils, must 
be well broken up and mixed with ashes. The surface 
of the land must be levelled, and under-drained with 
porous tile drains, laid at a distance of about 10 to 30 
feet apart, at a depth of five or six feet from the sur- 
face. The area should be laid out in plots; and no 
plot should receive sewage for more than 6 hours, so 
that it may have 18 hours rest out of the 24. If it is 
intended to apply the sewage in the proportion of more 
than 1000 people to an acre, the sewage should be 
treated chemically to remove the suspended matters, 
and the clarified sewage only should be applied to the 
land. 

When crude sewage is applied in large volumes to a 
small area of land, the pores of the soil become clogged 
with the slimy suspended matters, and a kind of coating 
is formed over the surface, which prevents the percola- 
tion of the sewage and the penetration of air into the 
interstices of the soil. When the sewage of less than 
1000 people is to be applied per acre, the sewage may 
be applied in its crude state ; for it is much cheaper to 
allow the suspended matters to reach the soil by gravi- 
tation in the liquid sewage, than to separate them by 
precipitation and then pump the liquid sludge on to the 
land. It is occasionally the practice to lay out the filter 
beds in ridges and furrows the sewage being allowed 
to flow down the furrows, whilst vegetables are grown 
on the ridges. The roots of the vegetables assimilate 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 185 

ammonia and organic matters, and thus help to purify 
the sewage, whilst the leaves and stalks being above 
the sewage are not contaminated by floating matters. 
The suspended matters deposited from the crude sew- 
age in the furrows, must be dug into the soil before 
they have time to form an impenetrable coating. 

By intermittent downward filtration through specially 
prepared beds of suitable soil, the clarified sewage of 
even 5000 people can be applied to each acre of land. 
Under favourable circumstances, the effluent water 
issuing from the deep drains will be found almost com- 
pletely free from organic matters. The nitrogen of the 
sewage exists in the effluent water, but in the innocuous 
forms of nitrates and nitrites. The chlorine will be 
found in the same proportion in the effluent as in the 
sewage. The sewage, therefore, by this process is 
effectually purified; but all its manurial ingredients are 
wasted, except in those cases where the sale of vegeta- 
bles, grown on ridges, covers part of the cost of its 
distribution. But the area of land being so limited, 
the amount of crops, and the income derived from their 
sale, must necessarily be very small. 



Irrigation. 

In the words of the Royal Commission on Metro- 
politan Sewage Discharge, broad irrigation means 
" the distribution of sewage over a large surface of 
ordinary agricultural ground, having in view a maxi- 
mum growth of vegetation (consistently with due puri- 
fication) for the amount of sewage supplied." Filtration 
means '"the concentration of sewage, at short intervals, 
on an area of specially chosen porous ground, as small 



186 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

as will absorb and cleanse it; not excluding- vegetation, 
but making the produce of secondary importance. The 
intermittency of application is a sine qua non even in suit- 
ably constituted soils, wherever complete success is 
aimed at." 

It becomes necessary to inquire, what are the condi- 
tions under which the sewage of a town may be applied 
to land by broad irrigation, that is, how may sewage 
farming be rendered successful ? Experience has taught 
that no great profit should be looked for from a sewage 
farm ; but even if the sale of the produce helps to 
diminish the cost of purification, this is a result which 
can be attained by no other method of disposal of sew- 
age. Unfortunately, in the past, local authorities have 
found great difficulty in acquiring land for cleansing- 
sewage. Enormous prices have been asked and given 
for agricultural land, required for sewage farms; and 
these, added to parliamentary and legal costs, have in 
many instances saddled the rates with burdens, which 
cannot possibly be defrayed by the sale of sewage 
grown produce. 

In the first place, the land chosen should be so situated 
in relation to the town, that the sewage may flow to it 
by gravitation : pumping is costly and greatly reduces 
any profits that may arise. The rent to be given for 
the land ought not to exceed 2 IO.T. per acre (Bailey 
Denton). The extent of land that should be acquired 
varies under different circumstances ; as an average, 
one acre to every 100 persons of the population is suffi- 
cient. The best kind of soil is a friable loam, but 
clayey, gravelly, or sandy soils, are all capable of puri- 
fying and utilising sewage when properly managed. 
The land must be levelled, and, unless very porous, 
underdrained to allow the sewage to percolate and pre- 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 187 

vent its stagnation on the surface. With very dense 
clay soils filtration is impossible, and in such cases 
surface flow must be entirely relied upon. This is 
capable of giving- a fairly pure effluent, if the sewage 
has been freed of suspended matters by a preliminary 
precipitation, and if the area of the land is sufficient. In 
these cases underdrainage should not be attempted, as 
in dry summer weather the stiff clay soil cracks, and the 
sewage may pass away directly through the fissures 
into the underdrains, and so reach the watercourses 
totally unpurified. The main carriers for the distribu- 
tion of the sewage on the farm, should be masonry, 
concrete, or stoneware channels, which can be easily 
flushed and cleansed. 

The method most capable of general application for 
applying the sewage from the main carriers to the sur- 
face of the farm, is that known as the ridge and furrow 
system. The surface is laid out in ridges 30 to 60 feet 
broad running parallel to each other, and at right 
angles to the main carrier with a slight fall from it. 
Between every two ridges is a furrow formed by the 
slope (a fall of a few inches) of the two ridges towards 
each other. The flow of sewage down the main carrier 
being stopped by the lowering of a sluice, or by a plate 
or board, held by a workman opposite the centre of the 
ridge, the sewage overflows, and passing down a grip 
in the centre of the ridge, can be made to flow over the 
sides towards the furrow. When the central grip 
becomes clogged with the suspended matters of the 
sewage, it should be filled in, and a fresh one made in 
its place. The underdrains of porous earthenware 
should be laid at a depth of about 6 feet in the soil, and 
from 20 to 100 feet apart, according to the porosity of 
of the soil. 



188 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The best crops for a sewage farm are Italian rye- 
grass, roots (mangold wurzel), and cabbages. Messrs. 
Rawlinson and Read in their report to the Local 
Government Board (1876) state: "Italian rye-grass is 
probably in all respects the most advantageous crop to 
be grown under sewage ; as it absorbs the largest 
volume of sewage; occupies the soil so as to choke 
down weeds ; comes early into the market in spring ; 
continues through the summer and autumn, bearing 
from 5 to as many as 7 cuttings in the year, and pro- 
ducing from 30 to 50 tons of wholesome grass upon each 
acre." Dr. Alfred Carpenter believes that this plant 
possesses the power of absorbing and assimilating un- 
changed the organic matters of sewage, unlike plant 
life in general, for which complex organic bodies must 
be reduced to simple constituents (ammonia, phosphates^ 
etc.) before they can be assimilated. He thus accounts 
for the enormous volumes of sewage with which plots of 
rye-grass may be continually treated, without injury, 
indeed with benefit to their growth. After two or three 
years, the plot of rye-grass should be ploughed up, and 
the land sown with cabbages or roots (mangolds). 
These may be sewaged when growing, but they should 
not be sewaged when they arrive at maturity. They 
help to exhaust the soil of the sewage matters retained 
in it, which have not been absorbed by the rye-grass. 
Pulse, cereals, and all other vegetables, should not be 
sewaged when in growth, except in times of great 
drought. The land, when fallow, may be enriched by 
the application of sewage ; for some of the manurial 
ingredients of sewage are doubtless retained in it, ready 
for use on a future occasion. Market gardening may be 
undertaken, and made very profitable on farms where 
the area of land is more than sufficient to deal with all 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. l8g 

the sewage; but where this is not the case, market 
gardening- does not answer, because the area so cul- 
tivated cannot take all the sewage which it ought to 
utilise. 

The amount of capital required to stock and work a 
sewage farm is very great, probably 5 times the amount 
required for an ordinary farm. The crops that have 
to be taken off the land are enormous, and a large 
amount of labour is required to keep the land clean and 
free from weeds. The crops of Italian rye-grass being 
so large, may and often do exceed the demands of 
the local markets. If not sold at once, the grass is 
wasted; for it will not keep, and will not bear long 
carriage. In dry summers it may be made into hay, 
and at other times it may be converted into Ensilage. 
It has been found, however, that to reap the greatest 
profits from a sewage farm, the produce should be con- 
verted into milk and meat. In other words a dairy 
farm should be established, and stock should be reared 
and fattened for market. The idea that sewage- grown 
produce is dropsical and prone to decompose, has been 
long exploded. The milk and meat also from animals 
fed on such produce, in no way differs from milk and 
meat produced on ordinary farms. 

We may here quote some experiments of the British 
Association Sewage Committee made on Breton's Farm 
at Romford, as to the amount of nitrogen recovered in 
the crops of the farm from the sewage applied. Their 
experiments extended over 5 years (1871-76), and they 
found that the average amount of nitrogen recovered in 
the crops of the farm was 32^88 per cent, of that applied 
in the sewage. About 1 1 per cent, of the nitrogen in 
the sewage escapes in the effluent water, almost entirely 
as nitrates and nitrites, whilst a portion of the unac- 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

counted-for nitrogen is stored up in, and enriches, the 
soil of the farm. These results the committee con- 
sidered very satisfactory, taking- into account the ex- 
treme porosity of the soil and the limited area of the 
land, as in the experiments of Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert 
only from 40 to 60 per cent, of the nitrogen applied in 
solid manures was recovered in the crops within the 
season of application. 

The amount of evaporation of water from the surface 
of a sewage farm is enormous. The above committee 
found that, on an average of over a year's observations, 
only 47-3 per cent, of the sewage pumped on to Breton's 
Farm was discharged through the deep drains as efflu- 
ent water. This fact must be reckoned with on making* 
analyses of effluent waters from sewage farms, which 
are to be compared with samples of crude sewage flow- 
ing on to the farms. Although the evaporation of water 
is so great, the committee found that there was no loss 
of ammonia from the sewage by evaporation, in its 
passage along the open grips and carriers on the farm. 

One of the great drawbacks to the utilisation of sew- 
age by irrigation, is the fact that the sewage must be 
applied to the land as it comes, by night as well as 
by day, on Sundays as on week days* There may be 
times when it may not be desirable to apply sewage to 
the general surface of the farm, especially during wet 
weather, when enormous volumes of dilute sewage 
arrive at the farm. This difficulty may be got over by 
laying out a portion of the farm as a filter bed closely 
drained. The extent of this filtration area should be 
sufficient to purify the whole of the sewage when not 
required on the general surface of the farm. The land 
may be left fallow, or laid out in ridges and furrows 
and cropped. When the sewage is much diluted with 



DISPOSAL OF REFUSE. 1QI 

storm water, it may, in other cases, be carried over 
osier beds or meadow land before being discharged 
into a stream. The flow of sewage is thereby checked, 
and suspended matters are to a certain extent de- 
posited, so that the sewage is partially clarified, be- 
fore its entrance into the stream. It would be of great 
advantage if storm and subsoil waters could always 
be excluded from the sewers; the problem of satis- 
factory disposal of the sewage would be thereby greatly 
facilitated. 

During the most severe frosts irrigation may continue 
uninterruptedly. A coating of ice is formed over the 
surface of the farm, but the sewage, which never has a 
temperature below 45 F., flows underneath this coating 
and sinks into the soil, which remains unfrozen and 
open. As the weather moderates, the sewage rapidly 
melts the ice above it. Even in America, where the 
frosts are most intense, no trouble has arisen from this 
cause on any of the sewage farms. 

Are sewage farms productive of nuisance and injury 
to health ? There can be no doubt that badly managed 
farms where more sewage is applied than the land 
can absorb and cleanse, or where, from the sewage 
being applied too continuously, the surface becomes 
sodden, and ponded sewage stagnates on it may be a 
nuisance. That they can cause injury to health or pro- 
duce disease has yet to be proved. When properly 
conducted, sewage irrigation is not found to be produc- 
tive of any nuisance. 

That sewage farming is no more unhealthy than or- 
dinary farming, is shown from the returns of the nine 
sewage farms which were in competition for the Royal 
Agricultural Society's prizes. The rate of mortality 
amongst the labourers and their families, on an average 



IQ2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of the number of years these farms had been in opera- 
tion, did not exceed 3 per 1000 per annum. No facts 
either have ever been brought forward in favour of the 
view that entozoic diseases are spread by the agency 
of sewage farms. It has been truly remarked that it is 
probable that alkaline sewage destroys organisms like 
the ova of tapeworms, whose natural habitat is the acid 
secretion of the human intestines. If so, they are de- 
stroyed before they arrive at the farm. On one farm, 
too, it was found that there was a remarkable absence 
of those molluscan and insect forms of life, which fre- 
quently play the part of intermediary bearers to entozoal 
larvae, and without which the cycle of their existence 
cannot be continued. Even where cattle have been 
allowed to feed upon land to which sewage was being 
applied, it has not been found that they were in any 
way affected with parasitic diseases. 



AIR AND VENTILATION. IQ3 



. 



'CHAPTER III. 

AIR AND VENTILATION. 

PURE atmospheric air has the following volumetric com- 
position : 

Oxygen 20-96 per cent. 

Nitrogen 79-00 ,, 

Carbonic acid '04 ,, 

Ozone and mineral salts . . . traces (variable}. 
Organic matters, chiefly in suspension . traces. 
Water vapour variable. 

This composition is, as regards the three gases which 
compose almost the entire bulk of ordinary air, remark- 
ably uniform in every part of the world. Even in the 
midst of large cities where the atmosphere is being 
vitiated and polluted in every conceivable variety of 
way, the air of open spaces differs but very slightly in 
the proportions of its constituent gases from the air on 
the open plains, mountains, or seas, which is far removed 
from such sources of contamination. This is not to be 
wondered at when the immense power and universality 
of the forces which promote purification of the atmo- 
sphere are considered. Such are: the winds which 
dilute and sweep away impurities, bringing pure air in 
their place; the rain which washes the air, carrying- 
down in its fall dissolved gases and suspended impuri- 
ties ; the chemical effects of the oxygen and ozone in 
the air on the oxidisable matters in it ; and lastly, the 
power possessed by the green parts of plants in sun- 

o 



IQ4 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

light of absorbing- carbonic acid, fixing the carbon and 
setting free the oxygen. The latter process is, how- 
ever, reversed during the hours of night, CO 2 being 
evolved, but the balance is decidedly in favour of puri- 
fication. Provided these natural forces have full play, 
the atmosphere everywhere maintains a constant com- 
position, and is what we call pure. 

But under the artificial conditions of civilised existence, 
it too often happens that the utilisation of these purifying 
forces the science of ventilation is not understood, or 
neglected, and as a consequence the impurities, which 
are continually being thrown by human agencies into 
the atmosphere, increase faster than they can be dis- 
persed or destroyed. Confining our attention for the 
present to the outer air the air outside buildings it 
has been found in large cities that when the atmosphere 
is stagnant, and no wind is blowing, especially during 
fogs, the air of open spaces may contain only 20*80 per 
cent, of oxygen, or even less, and the carbonic acid may 
exceed 0*06 per cent., with a considerable increase like- 
wise in organic matters. Such observations have been 
made in London and Manchester. In the narrow closed 
courts or streets, surrounded by high buildings, which 
constitute so large a portion of the densely populated 
parts of these cities, the air has been found considerably 
more impure than the samples above given, which were 
taken from open spaces. The air of such places is 
stagnant and confined, as in a well; there is no circu- 
lation to effect a proper renewal of fresh air, and dis- 
persion of accumulated impurities, and the sun rarely 
or never penetrates. Yet such is the only air supply 
attainable by thousands of the dwellings of the poorer 
classes. 

Ozone, which is oxygen in an allotropic and highly 



AIR AND VENTILATION. IQ5 

active condition, is generally absent from town air, even 
in open squares and parks. 

We thus see that although in towns much may be 
done by constructing wide and airy streets, by pre- 
venting the back-to-back aggregation of dwellings, and 
by suitable restrictions as to their height, to provide for 
proper ventilation and purification of the atmosphere, 
yet its purity is liable to variations, which do not occur 
in the air of the open country. These variations may 
be only very slight in amount, but they are not un- 
important. Their bearing on the health and vitality 
of the populations exposed to their influence is probably 
considerable. 

Amongst suspended matters usually present in the 
air, to a greater or less extent, are minute particles of 
sand, common salt (near the sea), soot, dust of various 
kinds in towns consisting largely of organic matters 
from horse droppings vegetable debris^ pollen of 
grasses and flowers in the early summer, the spores of 
various fungi and moulds, diatoms, bacteria and their 
spores, monads and infusoria dead and living. The 
purest air, such as exists at considerable elevations on 
mountains and over the sea, contains but very little 
suspended matter, sometimes none at all. In towns, 
especially manufacturing towns, the air is often loaded 
with soot and dust of mineral origin. 

The presence of bacteria in air is a subject of much 
interest, which has received for some years the attention 
of Dr. Miquel at the Montsouris Observatory near Paris. 
Dr. Miquel has found the air at Montsouris to contain 
on an average 480 bacteria per cubic metre, chiefly in 
the form of spores. The greatest number are present 
in summer, and the least in winter. Rain washes out 
of the air bacteria and all other suspended matters; 

02 



ig6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

consequently after rain fewer organisms are present in 
a given volume of air. In the streets of Paris the 
average number of bacteria to a cubic metre of air is 
3480, whilst in inhabited rooms, ten or even twenty 
times this number may be present, Micrococci consti- 
tuted sixty per cent, of the bacteriform organisms found, 
the remainder being bacilli and true bacteria. Spores 
of fungi and moulds appear also to be present in largest 
numbers in summer. They are said to alternate With 
bacteria in different years or seasons. The cells of 
protococcus pluvialis and other algae are sometimes 
found in air. 

In towns, the amount of organic and mineral dust in 
the air will depend greatly on the efficiency of the 
scavenging and watering of the streets. The wind 
raises minute particles from the surface of the ground, 
and carries them often great distances before they are 
deposited. In this way infectious particles from domestic 
dust heaps and dried excreta, may be caught up and 
carried into the air. In India, where the habits of the 
natives greatly conduce to faecal pollution of the surface 
of the soil, it is believed that dried choleraic discharges 
ynay be carried by the wind, and be the cause of an 
outbreak at very considerable distances. 

Air is vitiated by respiration of men and animals; by 
combustion of coal, gas, oil, etc. ; by fermentation and putre- 
faction of animal and vegetable organic matters ; by various 
trade and manufacturing processes. 



VITIATION BY RESPIRATION. 

An adult individual at rest breathes at the rate of 
about seventeen respirations a minute. At each re- 



AIR AND VENTILATION. IQ7 

^piration about 500 c.c. (30-5 cubic inches) qf^air passes 
in and out of his lungs. The air in the lungs loses four 
to five per cent, of oxygen, which is absorbed by the 
blood in the pulmonary capillaries, and gains carbonic 
acid from the venous blood, to the extent of about four 
rjer^cent. The nitrogen remains unchanged. 

The composition of respired air is variable, but may 
be taken to be somewhat as follows : Oxygen 16,96 
per cent.; nitrogen 79-00; carbonic acid 4-04. In 
addition, the expired air is raised in temperature to 
nearly that of the blood, 98-4 F. ; it is saturated with 
aqueous vapour, and contains a considerably larger 
proportion of putrefiable organic matters, than the air 
which is inspired. 

The amount of carbonic acid which is given off by an 
adult person at rest, can be calculated from the above 
figures, and will be found to be 072 cubic foot in one 
hour. From actual experiment, however, it has been 
determined that an average adult person gives off O'6 
cubic foot of carbonic acid every hour, and this is the 
figure which is usually taken as the basis for all calcu- 
lations on ventilation and supply of air. It probably 
approaches with sufficient accuracy the actual truth, 
when applied to a mixed community of adults of both 
sexes. During exercise the quantity of CO 3 given off is 
greater, and may reach to 1-5 cubic feet per hour 
during hard work. 

The organic matter given off by the skin and lungs, 
varies with the individual and his state of health. It 
consists partly of vapour, and partly of suspended 
matters (epithelial and fatty debris) ; it is nitrogenous 
and oxidisable, aud very rapidly putrefies. It is also 
absorbed by hygroscopic substances, such as wool, 
feathers, and moist paper; and is noticeable by smell 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

in the air of an inhabited room, when the CO 2 exceeds 
0-06 per cent. This foul organic matter is the substance 
which renders air vitiated by respiration so peculiarly 
deleterious to health. 

Slight excess of carbonic acid and deficiency of 
oxygen are, by themselves, inoperative and without 
influence on health ; but inasmuch as foul organic 
matters are present in air vitiated by respiration, just 
in proportion as the CO 3 is in excess, and the oxygen 
diminished, and as the amount of CO 2 is estimated so 
much more easily than the organic matters, it is usual 
to judge of the foulness of the air of inhabited places by 
the greater or less excess of CO 3 in it. The organic 
matters in an inhabited room are difficult to get rid of 
even by free ventilation ; unlike the CO 2 , which being 
nearly equally diffused throughout the apartment, is 
rapidly removed when there is a communication with 
the external air. The amount of watery vapour given 
off by the lungs and skin is about 550 grains per hour, 
enough to saturate 90 cubic feet of air at a temperature 
of 60 F. 

- /-""The purity of the air in dwelling rooms depends upon 
the amount of cubic space for each individual, and the 
facilities afforded for entrance of fresh and exit of foul 
air. Where these points are properly attended to, the 
"air, although rather more impure than the external 
atmosphere, will not be productive of injury to health, 
in those extreme cases where many people are crowded 
together, and the ventilation is totally inadequate, the 
air often becomes sufficiently impure to cause headache, 
lassitude, nausea, and fainting. In the pit of a theatre 
at 11.30 p.m., Dr. Angus Smith found the oxygen re- 
duced to 2074 per cent. ; and in the old court of Queen's 
Bench in 1866, the oxygen on one occasion was as low 






AIR AND VENTILATION. IQQ 

as 20-65. In a school-room crowded with 70 girls, 
Pettenkofer found the carbonic acid to exist in the air to 
the extent of 0*723 per cent., or nearly 20 times the 
amount normally present in air; whilst the organic 
matter, measured as albuminoid ammonia (usually pre- 
sent in pure air to the extent of 0*08 milligrammes per 
cubic metre) has been found in the ward of a Hospital 
to reach 1-3 milligrammes per cubic metre of air. 

The above figures represent in each case excessively 
foul atmospheres; all intermediate conditions of air, 
varying according to circumstances, may be found in 
the different kinds of inhabited rooms and dwellings. 
The long-continued breathing of even much less vitiated 
air than the above samples is, perhaps, one of the chief 
causes of rickets in children, and tends to produce a 
lowered state of vitality in older people, characterised 
by anaemia, dyspepsia, and lassitude. People in this 
lowered condition of health, which is very common 
amongst those who spend the greater portion of every 
day indoors, in offices, schools, workrooms, and factories, 
offer much less resistance to attacks of acute disease, 
than do people who live out-of-door lives ; and they are 
greatly more subject to all chronic and wasting diseases. 
Dr. Ogle's researches have shown that of all the in- 
dustrial classes, those which are the healthiest and have 
the lowest death-rates, are the gardeners, farmers, 
agricultural labourers, and fishermen ; those namely 
whose occupations are carried on in the open air. The 
death-rate from phthisis in these classes is only about 
half that of the male community generally, and they 
enjoy about the same amount of freedom from diseases 
of the respiratory organs. Differences in food or hous- 
ing accommodation cannot account for the comparative 
freedom of these classes from pulmonary disease. The 



2OO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

average agricultural labourer is probably worse housed 
and fed than the town clerk or mechanic, but he spends 
the greater part of his life in the open air instead of in a 
vitiated atmosphere. 

The causal relation subsisting between foul air, pro- 
duced by overcrowding and insufficient ventilation, and 
phthisis is now generally recognised. The most con- 
vincing proofs of such a relation are to be found in the 
comparative immunity enjoyed by soldiers, sailors, and 
prisoners at the present time from this disease. 
Formerly, owing to the very limited amount of cubic 
space allotted per head, and the disregard paid to 
ventilation, phthisis was considerably more prevalent 
amongst soldiers, R.N. sailors and marines, and prison- 
ers in H.M. jails, than amongst the males of the same 
age in the classes from which they were derived. At the 
present time other conditions such as food, exercise, 
etc., remaining much the same the death-rate from 
phthisis is considerably less amongst these servants and 
prisoners of the State than amongst the civil population. 

The theory of the contagiousness of phthisis, long ago 
held by those who, like Dr. Bryson, had observed the 
rapidity with which destructive lung diseases spread in 
an overcrowded community, has received the strongest 
confirmation from the discovery by Koch of the tubercle 
bacillus, an organism invariably present in tubercular 
deposits, but not found in any other disease. The 
tubercle bacillus is present in the breath and sputa, and 
may be thus transferred through the air from the lungs 
of the sick to the healthy, under conditions of too close 
crowding, but not apparently where matters of cubic 
space and ventilation are attended to, as phthisis is not 
found to spread in the well-ventilated wards of General 
or Consumption Hospitals. In fact there is reason to 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 2OI 

believe that this disease is but rarely transferred by 
direct contagion from sick to healthy, and that the 
bacilli acquire more virulent infective powers in the foul 
atmospheres of overcrowded rooms and damp houses, 
than they originally possessed on leaving the lungs of a 
phthisical person. As Dr. Ransome has suggested, the 
sporulation of the tubercle bacillus may be assisted by 
contact with the kind of organic matter found in such 
atmospheres ; or whatever the explanation may be, it 
seems clear that phthisis is intimately connected with air 
vitiated by the products of respiration, or by the mois- 
ture and organic effluvia arising from damp and dirty 
soils, and that if such conditions are absent its capability 
of spreading is very limited. 

The incidence of disease on the inmates of back-to- 
back houses, in which there can be no through ventilation 
and circulation of air, has been investigated for the Local 
Government Board, by Dr. Barry and Mr. G. Smith. 
They report that it appears probable that the want of 
through ventilation has, per se, an unfavourable influence 
upon health, and gives rise to an increased mortality 
from pulmonary diseases, phthisis, and diarrhoea. Dr. 
Ransome has also brought forward evidence to show 
that in Manchester and Salford the streets most infested 
with phthisis are also the most confined and ill-ventilated, 
and that the larger proportion of these deaths take place 
in the cave-like back to-back dwellings. 

Acute diseases of the lungs, especially bronchitis and 
pneumonia, are very prevalent amongst those who live 
in heated, overcrowded rooms. The relation of pneu- 
monia to vitiated air is especially interesting, as this 
disease occasionally appears to take on an epidemic 
form and to be infectious. In some cases of acute 
croupous pneumonia a micrococcus has been found in 



2O2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the diseased tissues, which has been supposed to be the 
specific cause of the disease. 

An extensive outbreak of epidemic pneumonia at 
Middlesborough has been lately investigated by Dr. 
Ballard. The disease, which was distinctly infectious, 
had an exceptional incidence on males above the age 
of 15. The contagion was apparently transported 
directly through the air, by means of the breath, from 
the sick to the healthy, and also by means of infected 
sewer and drain emanations, and by food. Dr. Klein 
has discovered a bacillus in the lung juice and fresh 
sputa, which he regards as specific. 

The zymotic diseases generally are more prevalent 
amongst overcrowded populations than amongst those 
who are better lodged; but this may be accounted for 
by the inability to isolate infectious cases, and conse- 
quently the ease with which contagious particles pass 
from the bodies of the sick to those of the healthy. Air 
vitiated by the ordinary products of respiration of a 
healthy person, may produce illness but cannot be pro- 
ductive of a specific disease. 

In this connection we may consider the contamination 
of air by exhalations from the person generally. The 
disagreeable odour perceived in the near neighbour- 
hood of dirty people, arises from exhalations of putrid 
organic matters from their bodies and clothes. The air 
of a London police court furnishes a striking example of 
such air pollution. But it is especially the exhalations 
from the sick that are important and require notice from 
the part they play in propagating disease. 

In the air of ill-ventilated sick rooms and hospital 
wards the dkbris of dried epithelial scales and pus cells 
may often be found floating. These matters are especi- 
ally frequent in wards, where many of the patients have 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 2O3 

purulent discharges from suppurating- wounds or copious 
expectoration from the lungs, and are usually accom- 
panied by an abundance of spores of fungi and bacteria, 
and large excess of organic matters generally in the 
air. In many persons the breathing of such polluted air 
causes an immediate effect on the throat and tonsils, 
passing sometimes into acute tonsillitis or hospital sore 
throat. Its effect in increasing the severity of, and in 
retarding recovery and convalescence from acute dis- 
ease, is now generally recognised. The exhalations 
from the bodies of patients suffering from erysipelas, 
ophthalmia, pyaemia, septicaemia, and hospital gan- 
grene, are undoubtedly infectious to those who have 
open wounds. The contagious particles (pyogenic 
micro-organisms of various kinds) contained in dried 
epithelial scales and pus cells may be transferred 
through the air from patient to patient, and often no 
measure short of emptying the ward, appears to be of 
any avail to stop an epidemic once begun. In times not 
very far distant these diseases were, in the surgical 
wards of many hospitals, almost constantly present. 
Freer ventilation, improved sanitary arrangements, and 
the antiseptic treatment of wounds and injuries, have 
almost eradicated such calamities from modern hospital 
practice. 

The transmissibility of the acute specific fevers through 
the air by exhalations from the bodies of the sick is 
universally recognised, but not so the contagiousness of 
phthisis, diphtheria, and typhoid fever; and it is usual 
even now to place such cases in wards occupied by 
patients suffering from mixed diseases. In the light of 
recently acquired knowledge this is a practice not un- 
attended with danger, and a feeling is gaining ground 
that special wards should be provided for these three 



2O4 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

diseases no less than for cases of erysipelas, pyaemia, 
or hospital gangrene. It is possible that parasitic skin 
diseases may spread through the air, for sporules and 
mycelia of tricophyton tonsurans and achorion schon- 
leinii have been found floating- in the atmosphere of skin 
wards. 



VITIATION BY COMBUSTION. 

There are three kinds of mineral coal anthracite or 
smokeless coal, bituminous coal, and lignite. Bitumi- 
nous coal is used exclusively in the manufacture of illu- 
minating gas. Anthracite is a sort of natural coke, 
most of its gases having been driven off during the pro- 
cess of formation. The bituminous kind is the only one 
used for domestic fire places, although anthracite being 
smokeless (no soot) when used in properly constructed 
stoves, would be far preferable. Bituminous coal when 
burnt in an open fire place, gives off three times its 
weight of carbonic acid, small quantities of carbonic 
oxide, sulphurous acid, bisulphide of carbon and sul- 
phuretted hydrogen, and steam. About I per cent, is 
given off as fine particles of carbon or soot and tarry 
matters. One pound of coal requires 240 cubic feet of 
air for complete combustion. 

Illuminating gas is obtained by the destructive dis- 
tillation of coal in retorts, without access of air. The 
gas is subsequently purified by condensation to remove 
tar and water, and by passing it over lime or sesqui- 
oxide of iron to remove sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic 
acid, and compounds of sulphur and ammonia. When 
purified, coal gas contains on an average: hydrogen 
45 per cent., marsh gas 35 per cent., carbonic oxide 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 2O5 

6 per cent., illuminants (ethylene, acetylene) 6 per cent., 
carbonic acid 3 per cent., nitrogen, sulphurous acid, &c. 
5 per cent. The products of combustion of coal gas are 
nitrogen 67 per cent., water 16 per cent., carbonic acid 

7 per cent., carbonic oxide variable least when com- 
bustion is most perfect sulphurous acid and ammonia. 
One cubic foot of gas produces when burnt 2 cubic feet 
of CO 2 , and from O'2 to O'5 grains of SO 3 , and is able to 
raise the temperature of 31,290 cubic feet of air i F. 
One cubic foot of CO 3 is produced by the combustion of 
about 300 grains of oil in a lamp. 

All these products of combustion eventually escape 
into the outer air, where they are rapidly diffused and 
diluted, with the exception of the sooty particles which 
accumulate in the lower strata of the atmosphere and 
are only dispersed by strong winds and rain. The sul- 
phurous acid in the air of towns causes the rain to be 
acid, and has a very destructive effect on vegetation, 
mortar, and the softer kinds of building stone. The 
products of combustion of coal gas usually escape into 
the air of the rooms where the gas is burnt, and serve 
to intensify the ill-effects on health of air already vitiated 
by respiration. Carbonic acid when present in the air 
even to the extent of 2 per cent., if unmixed with other 
impurities, appears to have no very injurious action on 
health; but above this quantity it produces headache 
and nausea, and if present to the extent of 10 per cent, 
or even less, it produces rapidly fatal recults. Carbonic 
oxide on the other hand is very poisonous. One per 
cent, or less in the air may cause death from asphyxia, 
the gas uniting with the haemoglobin of the red cor- 
puscles and displacing the oxygen, so that the red cor- 
puscles can no longer act as carriers of oxygen to the 
tissues, and failure of the chief nervous centres results. 



2O6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

It therefore acts as a powerful narcotic, and exerts its 
effects in a most insidious manner; for being- destitute 
of odour, and not causing- any irritation of the air- 
passages when inhaled, it may be breathed uncon- 
sciously by the victim, who quickly experiences a loss of 
the power of movement, and even of any desire to make 
any effort to escape from the poisoned atmosphere. 

The sulphurous acid and soot in the g-eneral air of 
towns like Manchester, Liverpool, and London, appear 
to have no very marked effect on healthy people ; but 
they are undoubtedly injurious to many asthmatics and 
to people suffering- from bronchitis. During dense fogs 
the mortality from lung- diseases always increases. 
From the observed lesser incidence of malaria and 
diphtheria on town than on rural populations, it has 
been supposed that soot and SO 2 in the atmosphere 
might act as disinfectants, preventing the propagation 
and spread of these diseases ; but it is probable that the 
greater dryness of the soil in sewered towns is a more 
important factor in securing this comparative immunity. 

In a paper read before the Society of Medical Officers 
of Health (April 15th, 1887), Professor Corfield has 
called attention to cases of relaxed and ulcerated sore- 
throat caused by slight escapes of coal gas into houses 
from defective pipes or burners. Coal g-as also occa- 
sionally finds its way into houses from leaky or fractured 
mains in the street. The gas passes through the soil 
and escapes under the basement floor, or even finds its 
way up the walls behind panelling. When the escape 
is large in amount, the effects produced on persons 
inhaling the gas are of an asphyxial type due to the 
contained carbonic oxide ; but when the escape is small 
but long continued, the sulphur compounds, and especi- 
ally the bisulphide of carbon, appear to be the injurious 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 207 

factors affecting the throat. These effects of escape of 
gas would probably be most intense where the gas is 
insufficiently purified after manufacture. 



VITIATION OF AIR FROM DECOMPOSITION OF ORGANIC 
MATTERS. 

Animal and vegetable organic matters in cesspools 
and in badly constructed sewers and drains, ferment 
and putrefy, disengaging gases, some of which are foetid 
and highly complex bodies, probably carbo-ammoniacal 
and allied in chemical constitution to the compound 
ammonias (methylamine and ethylamine), whilst others 
are the simple gases carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydro- 
gen, ammonium sulphide, carbon bisulphide, carburetted 
hydrogen, nitrogen, &c. Recent research tends to 
show that the organic vapours arising from decomposi- 
tion of animal substances may contain traces of the 
animal alkaloidal substances ptomaines and leuco- 
maines which are contained in the faecal and urinary 
excretions of the animal body, and which exert a directly 
poisonous action on the system. The carbo-ammoniacal 
vapours have a strongly offensive odour, and are found 
in the air of cesspools and sewers where fermentative 
processes are in action. The bursting of bubbles of gas 
in the putrefying fluid, and the ascensional force of 
evaporation also carry up into the air suspended par- 
ticles of organic matter and a fine liquid spray, which 
mix with the organic vapours and other gases given off. 
These suspended particles are dead organic debris and 
living organised germs (bacteria, moulds, and fungi, 
and their spores). 

The micro-organisms the bacteria and fungi are 



2O8 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the constituents of sewer air to which attention has been 
lately most directed. The earlier researches on the 
subject were for want of means necessarily very inade- 
quate. But since the introduction by Koch of the 
employment of solid nutrient media for the cultivation 
of micro-organisms, the study of microbes in air has 
made rapid strides, notable improvements having" been 
effected by Hesse, Miquel, and a host of continental 
observers, and by Percy Frankland, Carnelly, Haldane, 
Robertson, and others in this country. The net result of 
these later observations is to show that, contrary to 
what might have been expected, sewer air is, under 
ordinary conditions, remarkably free from the microbes 
which are capable of cultivation on solid nutrient media 
at ordinary temperatures, and of which alone have we 
at present any definite knowledge. By ordinary condi- 
tions are meant sewers of modern construction, well 
laid with good gradients, and comparatively free from 
deposits, the result of stagnation. 

Several observers have shown that sewer air may 
even possess a relatively less number of microbes, capa- 
ble of forming colonies on cultivation, than the atmos- 
pheric air outside. The explanation appears to be that 
the internal walls of sewers are more or less wet or 
moist, and it is assumed, probably with reason, that the 
microbes in the sewer air adhere to the damp surfaces, 
and are thus prevented from floating in the air. This 
reasoning is strengthened by what is already known of 
the presence of microbes in atmospheric air generally; 
for in dry dusty weather they are found in far larger 
numbers than in damp weather or after rainfall. In 
well-made sewers the sewage is borne away from the 
houses in a fresh and undecomposed condition ; but in 
old and defective sewers, and even in moderately good 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 2OQ 

ones when the temperature of the air is high, and the 
amount of diluting- water is small as during hot and 
dry summers putrefactive bacteria undergo enormous 
multiplication, fermentative changes are set up in the 
sewage, and gases are formed which bubble up and 
break upon the surface of the liquid. 

It was demonstrated as long ago as 1871 by Professor 
Frankland, that liquids flowing smoothly in channels 
give off no solid particles to the air, and that even con- 
siderable agitation resulting in frothing may not cause 
any perceptible increase of the solid particles in the 
superincumbent air, but that the bursting of bubbles of 
gas in a liquid had a marked effect in disseminating 
solid particles. These experiments have been repeated 
and extended by subsequent observers, and there can be 
little doubt but that given stagnation and putrefaction 
of sewage, sewer air will be found to be loaded with 
micro-organisms of different kinds. The experiments 
of Haldane and Carnelly, which have been recently 
made, also show that splashing in a sewer, which may 
be caused by branch drains entering near the crown 
of the sewer, is productive of the dissemination of micro- 
organisms in the air. 

From the above results it might be inferred that 
sewer or drain air is only likely to be injurious when 
the contained sewage is undergoing putrefaction, and 
that as a foul odour is the invariable accompaniment of 
putridity, offensiveness is a sufficient criterion of possi- 
ble danger to health. As to the first point, practical 
experience to a certain extent supports such theoretical 
reasoning ; towns which have adopted improved sewer- 
age have lowered their death-rates, especially the 
enteric fever and diarrhoea mortality. But it must be 
remembered that the quantity of bacterial organisms of 

p 



2IO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

which the vast proportion are harmless is no index of 
the quality. Under certain unknown conditions, sewer 
air is dangerous to breathe whether derived from fresh 
or putrid sewage, and the assumption that sewer air is 
harmless because it may contain but few demonstrable 
organisms is utterly unwarranted. All we can assume 
is that there is a priori a greater probability of noxious 
germs being present, when the total number is large in 
amount than when it is small. As regards the second 
point, offensiveness does not always indicate putridity ; 
fresh sewage may contain volatile aromatic bodies of 
most offensive odour. In London, sewer air is often 
characterised by a faint, sickly, but overpowering odour; 
the odour of decomposition is not perceptible, yet there 
is plenty of evidence to prove that the inhalation of such 
air has been the cause of injury to health or actual 
disease. 

The effects on health produced by the inhalation of 
the products of decomposition of the animal and vege- 
table organic matters contained in drains, cesspools, 
and sewers, are various. Occasionally, as when choked 
drains or foul cesspools and privies have been opened 
and cleaned out, acute mephitic poisoning has resulted ; 
the symptoms being sudden and violent vomiting, purg- 
ing and headache, followed by acute prostration, some- 
times fatal. Amongst the Paris scavengers who empty 
cesspools, partial asphyxia appears not to be uncommon, 
and is probably due to the excessive amount of sul- 
phuretted hydrogen, disengaged when the contents of 
the cesspools are stirred up, together with a very low 
proportionate volume of oxygen. 

As a rule, the injurious effects of sewer air may be 
attributed to the organic matters with which it is so 
often laden. This is especially the case when people 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 211 

are exposed to escapes of sewer air into houses for a 
long- period. The dose of the poison may not be 
sufficiently great at any one time to cause the acute 
symptoms above described ; but the long-continued in- 
halation of diluted sewer air tends to produce a general 
loss of health, especially in children, shown in various 
ways, as by anaemia, loss of appetite, prostration, diar- 
rhoea, fever, headache, vomiting, and sore throat; one 
or more of these symptoms being 1 usually more pro- 
minent than the rest; or it may be that only a condition 
of depressed vitality is produced, which offers but slight 
resistance to attacks of acute disease. 

Occasionally a severe form of tonsillitis attacks the 
occupants of a badly drained house. This form of 
tonsillitis, which is now generally recognised as " sewer 
air throat," is marked by great inflammatory swelling- 
of the tonsils, very foul tongue, and g-astric derange- 
ment, accompanied by severe headache and intense 
depression. The temperature of the body is often not 
much raised, certainly not to a height proportionate to 
the severe symptoms; and this low temperature, together 
with the intense prostration, are characteristic of most 
illnesses resulting from the entrance of sewer-polluted 
air or water into the system. To what particular con- 
stituents of sewer air we are to attribute these and 
allied illnesses, it is difficult to determine. The attacks 
of tonsillitis, diarrhoea, etc., are not specific complaints. 
They are not protective from future attacks ; and 
although there is some evidence of the " sewer air 
throat" being 1 contagious and directly transmissible 
from person to person, it is equally likely that examples 
of apparently direct contagion are reallydue to exposure 
to a common cause. 

Modern views tend to regard as efficient causes the 

p 2 



212 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

organised living- germs, which may be present in sewer 
air, rather than any gases or vapours, however complex 
in their chemical constitution. But whether these micro- 
organisms are*the ordinary bacteria and fungi of putre- 
faction and fermentation, which on entrance into the 
body pervert the healthy action of the tissues, causing 
diseased processes; or whether they can exist outside 
the body as true pathogenic organisms, must be left to 
future research to elucidate. 

Inquiries have from time to time been made into the 
health of sewer men, who are constantly engaged in 
flushing and removing deposits from sewers. The 
results of such investigations lead rather to the belief 
that the constant breathing of sewer air is not injurious 
to health and life. But it must be remembered that 
these are picked men in the prime of life, who, now at 
any rate, generally work in well-ventilated sewers, 
where the air is not abnormally foul, and that these 
inquiries have not been very exhaustive. It appears, 
too, that they suffer somewhat from ophthalmia, and 
that the occupation tends greatly to aggravate venereal 
disease. The work is certainly unsuited to some con- 
stitutions, as many men are obliged to give it up after a 
short trial. 

Diarrhoea and dysentery are sometimes caused by 
breathing air contaminated with excretal emanations. 
This indeed seems to be one of the chief causes of the 
summer diarrhoea, which is so common in a hot and dry 
season in the badly drained districts of large towns. 
In the case of Leicester, which for many years has re- 
corded a summer diarrhoea mortality exceeding that of 
any other large town, Dr. Tomkins, Medical Officer of 
Health of the Borough, has shown that soon after the 
temperature of the earth, at a depth of one foot, has 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 213 

reached 59 F. to 62 F., the causes producing- the 
disease beg-in to operate. In the low-lying- districts of 
the town the sewers are foul, the solids of the sewage 
are deposited in the sewers, while the liquids percolate 
through the walls into the surrounding soil. This pol- 
luted condition of the soil Dr. Tomkins regards as 
eminently favourable to the development of bacterial 
forms of life, when the temperature reaches a certain 
point (59 to 62) ; for the disease appears annually 
when the earth temperature reaches this point, and 
declines as the temperature declines. He also finds that 
in those districts of the Borough where diarrhoea is 
most prevalent, the air is most contaminated with 
microbes or their germs or spores; and that these same 
microbes, when artificially cultivated, possess the power 
of inducing- diarrhoea in the human subject. The low- 
lying position of the town which was, until lately, liable 
to periodical flooding by the river, helps to intensify the 
results (see Chapter IX., Diarrhoea). 

There is now being accumulated a very considerable 
body of evidence to show that puerperal fever may be 
produced by sewer or drain emanations finding their 
way into the chamber of a lying-in woman. Erysipelas, 
pyaemia, septicaemia, and hospital gangrene, if not 
caused by such emanations, are certainly favoured in 
their spread where conditions of excretally polluted air 
exist. In a West-end hospital in London these diseases 
were a constant scourge, although every care in nursing 
and attendance was taken, until the ground on which 
the hospital was built had been opened up and several 
disused cesspools emptied and filled in, the existence of 
which was previously unknown. 

There can be but little doubt that enteric fever is also 
caused by inhaling specifically mfected sewer air, al- 



214 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

though the more frequent mode of origin is the drinking 
of specifically polluted water. Outbreaks of the fever 
have been recorded in many instances where the water 
was not at fault, where the passage of infected sewer or 
cesspool air into houses was a proved possibility, and 
was the only means by which healthy people could have 
been brought in contact with contagion. The evidence 
as to the spread of cholera by such means is of a similar 
nature. 

When excretal or other offensive emanations are 
given off into the open air, they are much less liable to 
cause disease or injury to health than when they find 
their way into confined spaces, such as narrow courts or 
the interior of houses. In the open air they are rapidly 
diluted and oxidised, and rendered practically harmless. 
In this way we can account for the excellent health en- 
joyed by the workmen on sewage farms, and by those 
who live in the neighbourhood, as well as by the men 
engaged at sewage works. In China the practice of 
covering the soil for agricultural purposes with fresh 
human faeces has been pursued from time immemorial, 
and yet there is no evidence to prove that filth diseases 
are at all more prevalent amongst the Chinese than 
amongst other nations. Grossly polluted rivers, which 
give rise during hot weather to most offensive emana- 
tions, have not yet been proved to cause injury to health 
by such means alone. The same may be said of effluvia 
from manure manufactories, soap works, tallow works, 
and other offensive trades, and also of the effluvia from 
putrefying animal bodies, given off into the open air. 
The air of crowded graveyards and vaults contains ex- 
cess of CO 2 and organic vapours (carbo-ammoniacal) ; 
if such polluted air rises from the soil and escapes into 
houses built on disused burial sites, it may cause serious 



v 
AIR AND VENTILATION. 215 

sickness amongst the occupants; but when the vapours 
escape into the open air, even in the midst of towns, no 
marked injurious effects appear to arise. 

The air over marshes is impure from the large 
amount of decaying vegetation in the water and soil. 
Carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and carburetted 
hydrogen (marsh gas), are generally present in some 
excess, together with decaying organic matters, both in 
the form of vapour, and of suspended matters which are 
carried into the air by the ascensional force of evapora- 
tion. In some marshes the air is very rich in H. 2 S, and 
the symptoms of anaemia and prostration characteristic 
of malarial poisoning have been thought to be partly 
due to this gas. The suspended matters in marsh air 
consist of vegetable debris, diatoms, algae, fungi, bac- 
teria and other micro-organisms. These suspended 
particles or some one of them (the bacillus malarias of 
Klebs and Tommasi-Crudeli) are the active agents in 
the propagation of malarial poisoning. They may be 
wafted by the wind considerable distances, and retain 
their various properties unimpaired by considerable 
dilution and oxidation, unlike the specific poisons 
evolved into the air from infected excretal refuse. 



VITIATION OF AIR IN INDUSTRIAL OCCUPATIONS. 

Although in some trade processes injurious gases are 
evolved and escape into the air that must be respired by 
the workmen engaged in the trade, and which will be 
considered subsequently, yet the vast majority of indus- 
trial occupations are injurious or otherwise according to 
the amount and nature of the dust which is produced. 
As subsidiary factors of high importance must be con- 



2l6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

sidered the conditions under which the dust producing 
work is carried on, whether in the open air, in well 
ventilated workshops or factories, or in overcrowed 
close rooms at a high temperature and with the air 
saturated with moisture. The long continued inhalation 
of dust tends to produce disease of the lung's, especially 
bronchitis and emphysema, interstitial pneumonia and 
fibroid phthisis. The source of the dust, whether vege- 
table or mineral, is not so important as the character of 
the particles which compose it. The most injurious 
kinds are those whose particles are hard, sharp, and 
angular, which become impacted in the walls of the 
bronchioles or air-cells of the lungs, are not easily ex- 
pectorated, and set up irritation and chronic inflamma- 
tion of the tissues around. The soft or rounded particles 
are not capable of doing nearly so much mischief. 

The table (see p. 217) gives the comparative mortality 
figures for males in different dust inhaling occupations; 
the comparative mortality figure from all causes 
amongst males in England and Wales being taken at 
1000, 200 of which are due to tubercular phthisis, and 
182 to other diseases of the respiratory organs. It is 
important to note that the column under phthisis re- 
presents the tubercular form of this disease, but un- 
doubtedly includes many cases of fibroid phthisis as well. 
That coal miners should stand at the head of the list, as 
regards freedom from lung diseases, is somewhat sur- 
prising, considering that the air in the underground 
passages in which they work, even in the best ventilated 
mines, is vitiated by respiration, combustion of lights, 
and gunpowder blasting, which throws into the air 
much CO 2 , CO, H 2 , H 2 S, &c. In addition, CO 2 and 
CH 4 are often evolved in considerable volumes from the 
strata cut through by the shafts and borings, and the air 






AIR AND VENTILATION. 



217 



in the workings is always thick with coal dust. Dr. 
Ogle explains the comparative innocuity of coal dust in 
causing lung disease, ByThe microscopical character of 
Us"~"paTttcte~r" which are comparatively free from sharp 
points.jind corners. He is also inclined to attribute to 
coal dust"T~speHal property of hindering the develop- 
ment and arresting the progress of tuberculosis a dis- 

Comparative Mortality of Males, 25 to 65 years of age, in 
certain Dust inhaling occupations, from Phthisis and Dis- 
eases of the Respiratory Organs.^ 







DISEASES 


PHTHISIS AND 






OF THE 


DISEASES OF 




PHTHISIS. 


RESPIRATORY 


THE RESPIRA- 






ORGANS. 


TORY ORGANS. 


Coal Miner .... 


126 


202 


328 


Carpenter, Joiner . 


204 


133 


337 


Baker, Confectioner 


212 


186 


398 


Plumber, Painter, Glazier 


2 4 6 


185 


431 


Mason, Builder, Bricklayer . 


2 5 2 


201 


453 


Wool Manufacturer 


257 


205 


462 


Cotton Manufacturer 


272 


271 


543 


Quarryman (stone, slate) 


3 08 


2 74 


582 


Cutler 


37 1 


389 


760 


File Maker .... 


433 


350 


783 


Earthenware Manufacturer . 


473 


645 


1,118 


Cornish Miner 


690 


45 8 


1,148 


All Males (England and Wales) 


220 


182 


402 


Fisherman .... 


108 


go 


198 



ease, it is to be remembered, which might be expected 
to be very fatal to coal miners, from the fact of their 
working in a heated vitiated atmosphere, and being- 
liable to sudden alternations of temperature in going to 
and leaving off work. 

* Dr. Ogle's Report, Supplement to the 4^th Annual Report of the 
Registrar General. 



2l8 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

This comparative immunity from tubercle is not dis- 
played by the Cornish or tin miners, who come at the 
bottom of the list. Their mortality from lung- diseases 
constitutes nearly two-thirds of their total mortality, and 
is nearly three times as great as that of Cornish males 
generally. They work under conditions of heated and 
vitiated air like the coal miners, but they inhale a sharp, 
angular, and most irritant stone-dust, instead of the 
comparatively benign coal-dust. The other occupations 
in which the workers are exposed to the inhalation of 
stone- dust are, masons^ builders, and bricklayers, who carry 
on their work chiefly in the open air, and have a lung 
disease figure of 453 ; stone and slate quarrymen who also 
work mainly in the open air (582); and the earthenware, 
china, and pottery manufacturers, who suffer enormously 
from bronchitis and emphysema (potter's asthma), and 
phthisis. These latter carry on their trade in close and 
heated factories, and, besides the fine irritating dust, are 
exposed to great vicissitudes of temperature. Their 
lung disease mortality is nearly the same as that of the 
tin miners. 

Cutlers and file makers, needle, pin, and tool makers, are 
exposed to metallic dust and stone-dust given off from 
the grindstones, and suffer largely from phthisis, bron- 
chitis, and pneumonia. File makers are in addition 
liable to lead poisoning, from their using a cushion of 
lead on which to strike their file. The operatives in 
cotton factories work in a heated atmosphere saturated 
with moisture by steam, and laden with filamentous 
particles of cotton and mineral substances used for 
sizing. In igooJen factories the heat is not so great, and 
there is less dust owing to the wool being treated with 
oil; but woolsorters are liable to contract anthrax from 
infected fleeces. In silk mills, dust and high tempera. 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 2IQ 

ture are injurious to the material, and are consequently 
avoided. 

Millers and lakers are liable to inhale flour dust, but as 
this substance is probably arrested in the mouth and 
nose, and does not reach the lung's, it can hardly be 
regarded as productive of lung- disease. Carpenters, 
joiners and cabinet makers are exposed to wood dust. The 
dust from the harder kinds of wood is probably more 
injurious than that from the softer kinds. 

Printers and earthenware manufacturers, plumbers, painters, 
glaziers, and file makers are all subject to lead poisoning; 
but plumbers, painters, and file makers in the highest 
degree. Plumbers inhale volatilised oxide of lead, and 
painters the dust of white lead ; but lead is also taken 
into the system when meals are eaten with dirty hands. 
Gout, renal disease, and diseases of the heart and brain 
are also common in these trades, and are the sequelae to 
a large extent of the lead poisoning. 

Other trades which give rise to dust or injurious 
fumes are, the manufacture of arsenical wall papers and 
artificial flowers, causing a dust which irritates the skin 
of the exposed parts and induces a rash, and on inhalation 
may produce symptoms of arsenical poisoning ; chemi- 
cal works producing sulphuretted hydrogen gas in large 
quantities; cotton and worsted bleaching works where 
sulphurous aciH is'given off, causing occasionally hron- 
chitis and anemia; alkali works giving off hydrochloric 
acid vapours; vulcanised india-rubber works producing 
bisulphide of carbon ; and cement works and brickfields 
where organic vapours and CO 2 , CO, H 2 S, SO 2 gases 
are evolved. 

In brass foundries the workers inhale a metallic dust, 
which is productive of a disease until lately known as 
" brass- founders' ague." But Dr. R. M. Simon has 
* British Medical Journal, April 28th, 1888. 



22O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

shown that brass-workers' ague is not ague at all, and 
is not in any way allied to malarial poisoning. The 
symptoms which caused Dr. Greenhow to designate the 
disease brass-workers' ague, are shown to be due to the 
ingestion of a quantity of an irritant metal dust (copper 
and zinc) sufficiently large to cause vomiting with its 
attendant depression. The illness only occurs in those 
who are new to the work, or who resume work after an 
absence of a month or even a fortnight, and there are 
no hot or sweating stages as in true ague. The men 
who suffer in this way drink freely of milk and promote 
vomiting, the best treatment that could be devised for 
copper or zinc poisoning. Chronic copper poisoning is 
common amongst brass-workers, and bronchitis from 
inhalation of irritant dust. 

In the manufacture of bichromate of potash a dust is 
inhaled which causes nasal ulceration. Match makers, 
before the introduction of red or amorphous phosphorus, 
used to suffer from necrosis of the jaw, the result of ex- 
posure to phosphorus fumes ; andjdlyerers and gilders, 
who worked with amalgams of gold and silver wTfh mer- 
cury, were formerly the subjects of mercurial poisoning, 
until electro-plating by electrolysis replaced the old 
methods. 

Two other occupations may be mentioned, in which 
the workers are exposed to carbonic acid gas inhalation. 
These are well-sinkers, who are occasionally asphyxi- 
ated by the large amount of this gas which is evolved 
from the soil, and collects in deep shafts ; and soda- 
water manufacturers. In this latter occupation, how- 
ever, the CO 2 is never present in the air in sufficient 
quantity to cause injury to health or life. 

The offensive trades mentioned in the Public Health 
Act of 1875 are those of blood-boiler, bone-boiler, fell- 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 221 

monger, soap-boiler, tallow-melter, tripe- boiler. The 
model bye-laws of the Local Goverment Board include 
in addition those of blood-dryer, leather-dresser, tanner, 
fat-melter or fat- extractor, glue- maker, size-maker, and 
gut-scraper, as being trades for which regulation by 
sanitary authorities is desirable. 

These regulations have for their object (i) the keeping 
of offensive stores in proper receptacles, so as to prevent 
the emission of noxious effluvia ; (2) the daily removal of 
offensive waste materials, or their storage, when they 
must remain on the premises, in properly covered 
vessels or receptacles, to prevent nuisance ; (3) the 
regular cleansing of the premises, and the enforcement 
of adequate ventilation, water supply, and drainage ; (4) 
the discharge of all vapours and gases, produced in the 
course of manufacture, at such a height into the air as 
to render the noxious effluvia not injurious to the neigh- 
bourhood ; or in certain cases the gases must be passed 
through the furnace and destroyed before discharge. 
In other cases the gases must first be passed through a 
condensing apparatus, to condense steam or other 
vapours by a low temperature ; or by passage of the 
gases through water or over certain chemicals, solution 
or absorption of the noxious vapours may be attained. 

The Local Government Board has also issued model 
bye-laws for the regulation of slaughter houses, and for 
the prevention of the keeping of animals on any pre- 
mises so as to be injurious to health. 

The Alkali Works, etc., Regulation Act of 1881, pro- 
vides that 95 per cent, of the hydrochloric acid gases 
and vapours produced in alkali works must be con- 
densed ; and in each cubic foot of air, gas, or smoke 

* See Dr. Ballard's Report on Effluvium Nuisances. 



222 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

escaping- into the atmosphere there may be only i 
grain of HC1. Each cubic foot of air, gas, or smoke, 
issuing from sulphuric acid works must not contain more 
than 4 grains of sulphuric acid (SO 3 ). The keeping apart 
of acid drainage and alkali waste is strictly enforced ; 
and all waste substances must be got rid of without 
nuisance. Other works included in this Act are salt 
works, cement works, chemical manure works, nitric 
acid works, sulphate and chloride of ammonia works, 
chlorine works, bleaching works, and gas liquor works. 
Nuisance may also result in the neighbourhood of gas 
works by the accumulation of deposits of lime, removed 
from the chambers where the ammonia and sulphur 
compounds are absorbed from the coal gas. 



Household Dust. 

Besides vitiation by products of respiration and com- 
bustion, one great cause of impurity of air in houses is 
the presence of floating particles of dust. This dust is 
the debris arising from the wear and tear of articles in 
domestic use, mingled with the soot and ashes from fire 
places, lamps, and gas burners. As soon as the air is 
still, it tends to settle upon walls, floors, and articles of 
furniture, to be again caught up and wafted into the air, 
when this is in brisk movement. Under the microscope 
this dust resolves itself into soot, mineral particles (sand, 
crystals of sodium chloride), cotton fibres, spores of 
fungi or bacteria, starch grains, pulverized straw, epi- 
thelial and epidermic debris from the skin. It is thus 
seen to consist largely of organic refuse, often more or 
less putrescent, and its presence in the air assists in the 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 223 

production of the low state of health so common to the 
occupants of dirty overcrowded houses. 

In all houses dust must be produced by the wear and 
tear of domestic life ; but in towns this strictly domestic 
dust is much augmented by that which finds its way in 
through doors and windows from the outer atmosphere. 
We cannot hope then to materially limit its production ; 
but much may be done to get rid of it, and to prevent 
its undue accumulation by thorough and regular house 
cleaning. 

House cleaning can only be efficient where the struc- 
tural conditions of walls, floors, and ceilings, permit of 
easy access for the broom and duster into every part 
of the room, and where furniture and fittings are so 
arranged as to prevent dust being deposited in inac- 
cessible places. 

As generally arranged, nearly every part of a room 
is a dust trap. Cornices and projections on ceilings and 
above doors ; rough or flock wall papers ; floors with 
crevices between the boards into which dust drops, to 
gradually accumulate between the floor and the veiling 
below ; carpets accurately fitting every corner of the 
room ; cumbersome articles of furniture as wardrobes, 
sideboards, and book-cases, which collect dust above, 
and are too heavy to be moved to allow dust to be 
swept out below ; heavy curtains with canopies, draper- 
ies, &c. ; all these tend to the collection or absorption 
of dust, which, being unseen, is forgotten and not re- 
moved. 

It is especially in bed rooms, which are occupied for 
so many hours without any thorough renewal of the air, 
that these dust absorbers and accumulators tend to do 
so much harm, by contaminating an atmosphere already 
sufficiently vitiated. The following rules, therefore, al- 



224 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

though to be recommended in every room of a house, 
are more especially applicable to bed rooms. 

The floors, if old and warped, should be accurately 
fitted with thin oak parqueterie, kept well polished with 
oil and beeswax ; or the spaces between the boards may 
be filleted, i.e., filled in with strips of wood, so as to leave 
no chinks, and the whole either stained and varnished, or 
coated with three or four good coats of paint, and var- 
nished. This flooring can be kept clean with a damp 
duster. Carpets should be abolished in favour of mats 
or Indian matting for bed rooms, which is very non- 
absorbent and easily cleaned. The mats can be fre- 
quently shaken and beaten in the open air, whereas 
fixed carpets are usually beaten once a year, and in the 
interval accumulate (especially the thick pile carpets) 
every kind of refuse and abomination. The use of 
linoleum and oil-cloth should be avoided, as it hinders 
the ventilation of the boards, and tends to cause dry rot. 

Heavy curtains, canopies, and draperies should be 
replaced by light muslin fabrics more especially in 
bed rooms which can be washed and cleaned at fre- 
quent intervals. Bed room furniture should be light 
and easily moved. It would be a great improvement, 
if, when houses were built, the bed room walls were 
planned with recesses, which could be converted into 
cupboards, shelves, and drawers ; and thus the actual 
furniture of a bed room could be reduced to the bed, 
washstand, dressing table, and chairs, and there would 
be no surface on which dust could lie concealed. 

Cornices and projections from walls and ceilings 
should be avoided, as likely to collect dust. 

The wall coverings should be smooth and glossy. 
Rough wall papers, especially flock paper, can hold 
enormous quantities of dust. For bed rooms and nur- 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 225 

series, distemper colouring- is perhaps better than wall 
papers, as the surface can be renewed at trifling- cost, 
and at frequent intervals. In distempering-, common 
whiting- is used as a basis for the colouring-, and not 
white lead or zinc white, as is almost invariably the case 
in painting-. Newly painted surfaces give off traces of 
lead, volatilized or in powder, to the air in drying- ; and 
symptoms of lead poisoning are not uncommon in the 
occupants of a freshly painted room. Painting-, then, is 
not to be recommended for wall surfaces, unless the 
paints are warranted free from lead. Sometimes the 
paints themselves contain no lead, but the "dryers," 
with which they are mixed before use, are found to be 
full of lead. 

Varnished wall papers are coming- more larg-ely into 
use. They have a smooth non-absorbent surface, and 
are easily cleaned with a damp cloth. In papering- a 
room it is important to see that the old paper is all 
peeled off, and the plaster underneath well washed, 
before the new paper is applied. The size and paste 
used should be perfectly fresh. 

A paper should never be put on a wall unless it is 
guaranteed free from arsenic ; and it is even advisable 
to test a piece with Marsh's or Reinsch's apparatus to 
make perfectly certain. The general supposition is that 
wall papers are not likely to contain arsenic, unless 
they are coloured some shade of green. But arsenic 
has been found in various coloured papers reds, 
mauves, browns, and greys. The arsenite of copper 
(Scheele's green) and the aceto-arsenite of copper are 
principally used in the manufacture of green papers. 
The amount of arsenic present varies in different cases 
from a grain, or less, per square foot, up to 50 or 60 
grains. 

Q 



226 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The injurious effects of arsenical wall papers appear 
to be due to the dissemination of the vapour of arseniu- 
retted hydrog-en, or of solid particles of arsenic, as dust, 
into the air of the apartment. In flock papers coloured 
with arsenic, it is probably diffused as dust ; whilst in 
the smoother papers arseniuretted hydrogen is formed 
by the decomposition of the size and paste on a damp 
wall acting- chemically on the arsenical salt. 

The long-continued inhalation into the lungs or swal- 
lowing of the arsenical dust and vapours derived from 
wall-papers, tends to produce a chronic form of poison- 
ing, characterised by one or more of the following 
symptoms arranged more or less in the order of their 
appearance; viz., conjunctivitis and lachrymation, cough, 
nausea, sickness and diarrhoea, colic pains, cramps, 
dryness of the mouth and throat with much thirst, head- 
ache, and debility becoming gradually very marked, 
with actual paralysis of the extremities, terminating in 
convulsions and death. 

As a rule the symptoms do not go beyond conjunc- 
tivitis, cough, nausea, and diarrhoea, with much debility. 
But these cases of illness often last for a long period, 
until, indeed, the source of the poisoning is discovered. 
The artificial fruit and flower makers suffer from arsenic 
poisoning in its worst forms. 



VENTILATION. 

Ventilation is a term which has a somewhat extensive 
meaning. Generally it may be said to mean the re- 
moval and dispersion of foreign gases or suspended 
matters, which have accumulated in the atmosphere as 
the result of the vitiating processes already described. 
We speak of the ventilation of streets and buildings, the 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 227 

ventilation of inhabited rooms, factories, and mines, and 
the ventilation of drains and sewers. In each case the 
same object is aimed at, but the means by which it can 
be attained are different. The ventilation of streets 
and building's is concerned with the width of the street, 
and the height of adjoining 1 or opposite building's 
in fact with the amount of free air space around the 
buildings, and the facilities afforded for the entrance of 
light and air. This may be called external ventilation. 
To ventilate dwelling- houses, factories, or mines, fresh 
air from outside must be introduced within these more 
or less closed places by natural or artificial means, and 
adequate exit must be provided for used or vitiated air. 
It is the same for drains and sewers, with this addition, 
that the escaping air must be allowed exit at points 
where it is least likely to be productive of nuisance. 

The constant composition of the atmosphere every- 
where, and the means by which such constancy is main- 
tained have been already alluded to (see p. 193). In 
addition to the natural forces of rain, wind, sun, and 
vegetation, which promote the purification of the at- 
mosphere on the large scale, natural ventilation as applied 
to circumscribed localities may be said to depend upon 
(i) diffusion of gases ; (2) the action of the winds; (3) the 
difference in weight of masses of air of unequal temperature. 

1. Gases diffuse inversely as the square roots of their 
densities; and this diffusion can take place through 
porous substances such as dry bricks. The process 
is necessarily a slow one, and inadequate to produce 
complete renovation of vitiated air. 

2. Winds are very powerful ventilating agents. They 
act chiefly by perflation, i.e., by setting masses of air in 
motion, driving them onward by an irresistible vis a tergo. 
They also have an aspirating effect on air which is shielded 

Q2 



228 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

from the direct or perflating action. For when wind 
passes horizontally over chimneys, or tubes placed at 
right angles to its course, it causes a diminution of pres- 
sure within them, thus creating a current of air up the 
chimney at right angles to itself. The air in these tubes 
being partially aspirated or sucked out by the action of 
the wind, to restore the temporary vacuum so made, air 
from below rushes up to take its place, a continual cur- 
rent in a perpendicular direction being thus set up. 

3. When air is heated it expands. The expansion is 
equal to T ^ T of its volume for every degree Fahrenheit, 
or ^i-g- for every degree Centigrade. A volume of hot 
air is consequently lighter, bulk for bulk, than the same 
volume of cold air. The warm air rises, and equili- 
brium is restored by the cold air rushing in to occupy 
its place. The winds themselves are caused in this 
manner by the unequal heating of the air over different 
parts of the earth's surface. 



External Ventilation, (Streets, Buildings, &><:.). 

The health of a town largely depends on the width of 
its streets, the general height of the buildings, and the 
amount of yard space at the rear of each which sepa- 
rates it from its opposite neighbour. Contrast the 
health and vitality of the occupants of houses in wide 
open streets, with those who live in narrow courts 
closed at one or both ends the courts themselves being 
often surrounded by higher buildings, or built back-to- 
back, or with the smallest possible intervening space. 
In such places the air is almost always necessarily stag- 
nant, as the passage of the wind is obstructed by the 
surrounding buildings. The sun's light for many 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 22Q 

months in the year cannot penetrate, with the result 
that the ground is never thoroughly dried, and the air 
in contact with it remains continually damp. Impure 
gases and exhalations, evolved from the inhabited 
dwellings, are not at once swept away by the wind, and 
consequently accumulate in the air of the court and its 
surroundings. Suspended organic matters tend to sub- 
side in the still air, which being thus both damp and 
impure, produces that state of low vitality and predis- 
position to disease which characterises the inhabitants 
of such places. 

Zymotic diseases especially typhus when once in- 
troduced, spread rapidly through the vitiated air; the 
enfeebled constitutions of the inhabitants presenting but 
slight resistance to their onset. Absence of sunlight 
appears to have a specially injurious effect on child life, 
which like plants becomes blanched and weakly when 
reared in semi-darkness. When it is added that in 
many of these courts and alleys the houses have no 
through ventilation, the windows being only in the front 
of the house, it is not to be wondered at that the general 
death-rate is sometimes double or even treble that of 
the healthy parts of the town, and that the mortality 
amongst infants and young children is something ap- 
palling. 

To show what is the minimum amount of external air 
space which should be alloted to every building in a 
town, we may quote from the model bye-laws of the 
Local Government Board, having reference to new 
streets and buildings. 

The width of every street intended for use as a 
carriage road must not be less than 36 feet; if not to 
be used as a carriage road it must be at least 24 feet 
wide, and open at one end. 24 feet is the least width 



23O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

allowed before the frontage of any new building; and 
the aggregate amount of yard space at the back of such 
a building, and belonging to it, must not be less than 
150 square feet, and whilst extending the entire width 
of the building it must not in any case be less than 10 
feet wide, and must be wider when the height of the 
building exceeds 15 feet. 

It is important to note that the model bye-laws insist 
on the yard space at the back of a house being in- 
creased with the height of the house up to 35 feet, but 
not so the frontage area. The higher the buildings, of 
course the greater the obstruction to the passage of air 
and light; and the amount of space compulsorily left 
unoccupied, both in front and back, should have been 
correspondingly increased. The erection in London 
and some large provincial towns of huge blocks of 
industrial dwellings, whilst affording vastly superior 
accommodation to the working classes over the old 
insanitary tenements, has not always secured efficient 
external ventilation for certain of the tenements. Lofty 
blocks are too often built in such a way as to enclose a 
narrow and well-like court, in which the atmosphere is 
always sunless and stagnant, and from which the rooms 
facing on to it derive all their light and air. Cottage 
buildings with sufficient space in front and rear, are far 
preferable to lofty blocks placed in rows ; but as they 
do not house the same number of people for the space 
occupied, in crowded districts, where the land is of such 
enormous value, the rents must necessarily be higher. 



Ventilation of Inhabited Rooms. 
We have already seen that an adult individual when 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 23! 

at rest expires about o*5 cubic foot of CO 2 in one hour, 
and that it is convenient to estimate the CO. 2 , when 
determining" the vitiation of air by respiration ; for 
although this gas is not per se the harmful product of 
the respiratory process being- in fact comparatively 
innocuous when present in but slight excess yet it is 
an index of the amount of vitiation of the air by the 
foetid and injurious organic matters of the breath 
increasing pari passu with them during the process of 
respiratory vitiation. 

In providing for the ventilation of inhabited rooms by 
the replacement of vitiated air by fresh air, it has been 
found necessary to adopt a certain standard of impurity 
above which no increase should be allowed ; because it 
is impossible in a cold climate to provide the enormous 
volumes of fresh air (about one million cubic feet for 
each individual per hour) which would be necessary to 
keep the air of the room as pure as the outside air. It 
is only out of doors then, that we can be constantly 
breathing air whose purity, as indicated by its amount 
ofCO 2 (o-O4 per cent.), is equal to that of the atmos- 
phere generally. 

It was found by the late Professor De Chaumont, by 
chemical examination of a large number of samples of 
the air of inhabited rooms that the amount of CO 2 in 
the outer air being 0-04 per cent., or 0-4 per 1000 no 
close or disagreeable smell is perceived in the air of a 
room until the CO 2 reaches 0*6 per 1000, or exceeds by 
0*2 per 1000 that present in the outer air; the close 
smell being always due to the foul organic matter in the 
impure air, which increases part passu with, and is there- 
fore estimated by the amount of CO 2 present. When 
the CO. 2 in an inhabited room reaches 1-3 per 1000, the 
limit of differentiation by the sense of smell, when a 



232 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

person first enters such a room from the outer air, is 
reached. Any greater impurity than this cannot be 
distinguished by the unaided senses. It was assumed 
by De Chaumont, and experience has confirmed his 
assumption, that air vitiated to the extent of 0*2 per 
IOOO air which is still fresh and does not differ 
sensibly to smell from the outer atmosphere can be 
breathed with impunity, but that no greater vitiation 
ought to be allowed. The object of ventilation may be 
said to be the supply of sufficient pure air to a room to 
prevent the CO 2 rising above o6 per 1000. The pej-- 
raissible limit of respiratory impurity is therefore O'2 
per 1000 (0*2 parts of CO 2 per 1000, or 0-2 cubic foot of 
CO 2 per 1000 cubic feet of air ; which is the same thing 
as 0*0002 cubic foot of CO 2 per I cubic foot of air). 

If an adult individual were enclosed in an air-tight 
chamber 10 feet high, 10 feet wide, and 10 feet long ?>., 
in a chamber containing 1000 cubic feet of space in an 
hour the CO 2 in this chamber would have had added to 
it 0-6 cubic foot of CO 2 ; the air originally contained 0-4 
parts of CO 2 in 1000 parts, so that after one hour it 
would contain 0-4 + 0-6 = i part of CO 2 per 1000, or 
I 0*6 = O'4 per 1000 above the permissible limit of 
impurity. But if the subject of this experiment were 
enclosed in a chamber containing 3000 cubic feet of 
space, in one hour the amount of CO 2 would be only 
(3 x 04)+ Q __ 



__ O . per I000 ^ ; .^ the j }m j t wou ]d j ust 

have been reached ; and at the end of a second hour, to 
keep the CO 2 down to this limit, 3000 cubic feet of fresh 
air from outside must have been allowed to enter the 
room. We thus see that an adult individual of either 
sex, when at rest, should be supplied with 3000 cubic 
feet of fresh air per hour. 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 233 

rj* 

By the equation D = ; where E = amount of CO 2 

exhaled ; r = respiratory impurity per cubic foot of air, 
and D = the delivery, or the amount of fresh air avail- 
able in cubic feet ; if E and r are known we can find Z>, 
or if D and E are known we can find r. If E= cr6, 

and r = 0-0002, then D = = 3000. That is to 

O'OOO2 

say an adult requires 3000 cubic feet of fresh air per 
hour in order that the respiratory impurity may not ex- 
ceed O'2 per 1000, or what is the same thing the total 
impurity cr6 per 1000. 

Examph^. If a room of looo cubic feet is occupied 
for 4 hours by 10 persons, each giving 1 off an average 
amount of CO 2 , what will be the total amount of CO 2 
per looo volumes at the end of the time, supposing 
10,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour have been sup- 
plied ? 

In this problem D and E are given and we have to 
find r. The total amount of air available for breathing 
by the ten persons in the 4 hours is 1000 cubic feet (the 
cubic space of the room) + 10,000 X 4 cubic feet, (the 
amount supplied in 4 hours) =. 41,000 cubic feet = D. 
The amount of CO 2 expired by 10 persons in 4 hours = 
O'6 x 10 x 4 = 24 cubic feet = E. 

D == - or r = - = 24 = 0-00058, 
T' r L> 41,000 

i.e., r or the respiratory impurity is 0^58 parts per 1000. 
The total impurity, or the total amount of CO 2 in the 
air will be 0-58 -f 0-4 = 0-98 pts. per 1000. 

Example^. The air of a room occupiea by 6 persons, 
and containing 5000 cubic feet of space, yields 7^5 parts 

* Sanitary Science Examination, Cambridge, 1880. 
f Sanitary Science Examination, Cambridge, 1884. 



234 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

ofCO. 2 per 10.000 parts. How much air is being sup- 
plied per person per hour ? 

Here E and r are given and we have to find D. 
E = 0-6 x 6 = 3-6 cubic feet CO 2 exhaled in one hour. 
r = 7-5 4 = 3-5 per 10,000, or 0-35 per 1000, or 
0*00035 parts of CO 2 per cubic foot. 

D = 3 ' 6 = 10,285, 
000035 

but the room contains 5000 cubic feet of space, there- 
fore in the first hour 5285 cubic feet of fresh air were 
supplied, or 880 cubic feet per head. After the first 

. ^fr**ty<M/M^4*~i/i>t***^--. . 

hour,^to maintain the same amount of CO 2 in the air, 
1714 cubic feet of fresh air would have to be supplied 
per head per hour. / ,j liT%' l"l ^[ ) ~S- ^ (Mffy 

"During exertion a man gives off more respiratory 

mpurities (CO 2 , organic matters, moisture, &c.), than 
when at rest. For this reason the amount of air sup- 
plied to factories or workrooms should be considerably 

n excess double or even treble, according to the 
nature of the work of that required in an ordinary 

iving or sleeping apartment. Somea.llo wan ce, too, 
must be made for lights, especially gas lights, when the 
pnxfucts of 'combustion are allowed to escape into the 
air of the room. An ordinary small gas burner, under 
a pressure equal to one inch of water, consumes about 
three cubic feet of gas in an hour, producing about six 
cubic feet of CO 2 , or ten times the quantity expired by 
an adult at rest, besides traces of sulphurous acid arid 
other injurious gases, and much heat and watery vapour. 
It is true that no foul organic matters are given off in 
gas combustion ; but still it is necessary to dilute and 
carry away these products of combustion, which take 
the place of the oxygen in atmospheric air, and are in 
themselves more or less injurious t> fiealth. 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 235 

The amount of cubic space allotted to each person in 
a room is a matter of great importance ; not because 
cubic space, however large "In amount (as met with 
under ordinary conditions of inhabited dwellings), can 
take the place of a regular supply of fresh air from 
outside ; but because_the_larger the ^ubrc^space, Jhe^ 
easier it is to supply the proper amount of air without 
^cr.e.aJLin^..ja_draug-ht. For instance, suppose in a dor- 
mitory occupied by 10 persons, the amount of space per 
head is only 300 cubic feet; to supply 3000 cubic feet of 
fresh air per head per hour, 30,000 cubic feet must be 
admitted in this period, and the air of the room will 
be completely changed 10 times a proceeding which 
would cause in cold weather, unless the entering air 
was warmed, a most disagreeable draught, for the cold 
air could not be properly distributed before reaching 
the persons of the occupants. But if the cubic space per 
head be 1000 cubic feet, then the air of the dormitory 
need be changed only three times per hour; and if 
such renewal is effected steadily and gradually, the cold 
entering air is broken up, and mixing with the warmer 
air of the apartment creates no draught. 

A certain amount of superficial or floor space is 
necessary for each individual ; for if the height of the 
room is much over 12 feet, excess in this direction does 
rot compensate for deficiency in the other dimensions, 
although the total cubic space may be the same ; thus it 
would not be the same thing to allow a man 50 square 
feet of floor space in a room 20 feet high, as to allow 
him 100 square feet of floor space in a room 10 feet 
high, although the amount of cubic space allotted in 
each case would be identical. The reason is that the 
organic matters of respiration are not equally diffused 
throughout the air of V} apartment, but tend to accumu- 







HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

late in the lower strata ; consequently excessive height 
does not, in their case, mean a corresponding dilution. 

A few examples of the cubic and superficial space 
allotted under various conditions may be interesting. 
In common lodging houses in the metropolis, which are 
under police supervision, 30 superficial and 240 cubic 
feet of space are allotted to each adult over 12 years. 
In workhouses 300 cubic feet are allowed for each adult 
in a dormitory; in military barracks about 600 cubic 
feet; in prison cells, under the separate confinement 
system, about 800 cubic feet with artificial ventilation ; 
and in the best general hospitals about 1200 cubic feet 
of space for each bed, and 100 superficial square feet 
of floor space. 

Natural ventilation. During the colder months of the 
year in this country, a complete change of the air in an 
inhabited room, not greater than three times in an hour, 
is all that can be borne, when the entering air is not 
artificially warmed. Hence the importance of an allow- 
ance of cubic space not much less than 1000 cubic feet 
for each individual. The area of the inlet opening 
should be sufficiently large to allow the required volume 
of air (3000 cubic feet) to enter at a not greater speed 
than 5 feet per second, or about 3-4 miles per hour. 
This speed would be attained where the inlet opening 
for each individual was 24 square inches. During cold 
weather even this velocity could not be borne, and it 
may be said generally that efficient ventilation cannot 
be tolerated by any one in cold weather, unless the 
entering air is artificially warmed. A velocity of the 
entering air of 2 to 3 feet per second is far more agree- 
able to the senses than a velocity of 5 feet ; and if the 
air is artificially warmed to 60 F., the area of the inlet 
opening may be enlarged to 48 square inches for each 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 237 

individual, andjhe warmed air may then be supplied at 
a rate of 2-?,- feet per second. This would be by far the 
most agreeable form of ventilation in cold weather. If 
the entering- air is artificially warmed, the size of the 
inlet_^enjngjTiay even be increased up to 70 or 80 
square inches per head, and the amount of cubic space 
may be diminished ; for it would be possible then to 
change the air of the apartment more frequently than 
three times per hour without creating a draught. 

Of the forces which act in natural ventilation, diffusion 
causes the gaseous impurities of respired air to mix 
with the fresh air in a room, until homogeneity is esta- 
blished. Diffusion, however, does not affect the sus- 
pended matters which tend to fall towards the earth in 
a still atmosphere ; consequently organic matters in the 
air, which exist principally as minute solid particles, 
are not affected or removed by diffusion. No mechani- 
cal arrangements are needed to allow diffusion to take 
place. 

The perflating action of the wind may be utilised by 
opening windows facing the wind, and the action is 
increased when windows, or a window a~noT door on 
opposite sides of a room are left open. The room is 
rapidly and continually flushed with air, an enormous 
effect being produced ; for it is possible to renew the air 
of a room in this manner many hundred times an hour, 
even when the movement of the wind outside is only 2 
miles an hour or 3 feet per second, equivalent to a very 
gentle breeze. Such a method is of unquestionable 
utility for rapidly cTmTTg'mg the air of an unoccupied 
room, and may be generally put in operation in in- 
habited rooms in summer when the temperatures out- 
side and inside the house approximate. 

In any system of ventilation, however, that depends 



238 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

entirely on the wind, there is always the difficulty of 
regulating- the velocity of the current according to the 
amount of movement of the air, and during complete 
calms the action is of course nil. The wind, too, often 
impedes ventilation by obstructing the passage of viti- 
ated air from an exit shaft into whose mouth it blows ; 
and this is not to be wondered at, for when blowing at 
the rate of 10 miles an hour, the pressure of the wind is 
half a pound on each square foot of surface. 

For ventilating the holds and cabins of ships at sea, 
the wind may be most advantageously utilised. A 
large cowl, placed so as to face to the wind, conducts 
the air below by means of a pipe; whilst another, 
reversed so as to back to the wind, allows the used air 
to escape. By this exit shaft the aspirating force of the 
wind is utilised. Sylvester's system of ventilation pro- 
ceeds on the same principles. A large cowl facing the 
wind is placed outside the house, and conducts the air 
to an underground chamber where it can be warmed if 
necessary by passing over hot water or steam pipes ; it 
is then conducted to the rooms above by means of 
tubes, and finally escapes above the roof through tubes 
surmounted by cowls backed to the wind. 

The aspirating action of the wind is constantly being 
used to ventilate rooms by means of the chimney. With 
a fire burning in the grate, the draught up the chimney 
is increased by the aspiration of the wind, when the top 
of the chimney is above surrounding buildings. Even 
when there is no fire in the grate, it will usually be 
found that there is a current setting up the chimney. 
Should the top of the chimney be lower than surround- 
ing structures, the wind striking these and then descend- 
ing, will often cause a back draught and a smoky 
chimney. The remedy is evidently to carry up the 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 23Q 

chimney to at least the height of the surrounding 1 build- 
ings. A lobster-back revolving cowl surmounting the 
chimney, may prevent or mitigate back draught; but it 
should be clearly understood that no sort of cowl that 
was ever invented can increase the up draught in a 
chimney, no matter whether the top is overlooked or 
not by higher buildings in its neighbourhood. Another 
cause of smoky chimneys is an insufficient supply of air 
to the room. To feed the fire, air is drawn down the 
chimney, and coming down in puffs it causes an escape 
of smoke. The remedy is obtained by making a suit- 
able inlet for fresh air into the apartment. 

The movement produced by inequality in weight of 
masses of air at different temperatures is the natural 
force chiefly relied on for ventilating the interior of 
houses in this climate. This force is naturally chiefly 
called into action in cold weather, when the difference 
between the internal and external temperature is con- 
siderable, and is more or less in abeyance in summer, 
when the temperature outside is often equal to, or even 
higher, than that of the house. The greater this differ- 
ence of temperature and the difference of level between 
the aperture for the entrance of cold air and the aper- 
ture for the exit of heated air, the greater will be the 
velocity of the entering air. We are enabled to calcu- 
late the theoretical velocity by means of Montgolfier's 
formula, which is founded on the dynamical law that 
the velocity in feet per second of falling bodies is equal 
to 8 times the square root of the height through which 
they have fallen. In this case the height fallen is repre- 
sented by the difference in pressure of the air inside and 
outside the house, which is equal to the difference of 
level between the apertures of entrance and exit x by 
the expansion of air caused by the difference in temper- 
ature inside and outside. 



240 HYGIENE AND ^PUBLIC HEALTH. 



v = 8 y(h h} (t /') __ ve i oc ity in feet per second. 

. 49 1 
Where h = height of aperture of exit from ground ; 

h' = ,, ,, entrance from ground ; 

/ = temperature of air inside in degrees Fahr. ; 

/' ,, ,, outside in degrees Fahr. ; 

In practice an allowance for friction of \ or \ must be 
made. If the area of the inlet opening is known, the 
amount of air entering the room in a minute or hour 
can easily be calculated by multiplying the velocity by 
the area of the inlet expressed as square feet, or as a 
fraction of a square foot. 

In a room as usually constructed with sash windows 
and with a fire-place and chimney, but without any 
special means of ventilation, when a fire is burning in 
the grate the heated air of the room in part ascends the 
chimney flue, and in part rises to the ceiling. Cold air 
from outside will then enter if the windows are closed 
under the door, under the skirting boards, between the 
sashes of the window, and through any other chinks or 
apertures due to loose fittings. The bricks and plaster 
of the walls are also porous to a certain extent, and if 
uncovered by paint or wall paper will admit a small 
quantity of air. Thus a large volume of air may be 
entering a room in cold weather when the fire is burn- 
ing, although there are no visible inlets; and the amount 
of air thus supplied may be sufficient for the needs of 
two or three persons if it were properly distributed. 
But such is not the case. The cold air, which enters 
chiefly near the floor, takes as straight a course as 
possible to the fire place, producing a disagreeable 
draught to the feet of the occupants, whilst the heated 
and vitiated air near the ceiling is left undisturbed. 
It has been found practically that to prevent draughts. 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 



241 



and to ensure a thoroug-h distribution, fresh air should 
ho admitted into a room above the heads of the occu- 
pants, an upward direction being given to it so that it 
may impinge on the ceiling, mix with and be warmed 
by the heated air in this situation, fall gently into all 
parts of the room, and be gradually removed by means 

I 




\ 



FIG. 33. Hinckes-Bird's 
Window Ventilator. 



FIG. 34. Tobin's Tube with Water 
Tray. 



of the chimney flue or any other outlet, which should 
preferably be at the highest part of the room. 

Amongst simple contrivances for windows by which 
these objects may be attained, may be mentioned 



242 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



Hinckes-Bird's method (fig. 33) now so well known, of 
placing- a solid block of wood under the entire length of 
the lower sash frame of a window, so as to raise the top 
of the lower sash above the bottom rail of the upper 
sash. By this means the air is admitted between the 
two sashes above the heads of the occupants of the 
room, and is given an upward direction towards the 
ceiling. Holes bored in a perpendicular direction in 
the bottom rail of the upper sash, louvred panes (fig. 35) 
to replace one of the squares of glass, an arrangement 
for allowing one of the squares of glass to fall inwards 





FIG. 35. Window Ventilators. A. Louvre. B. Cooper's. 

upon its lower border and providing it with side checks, 
or a double pane of glass in one square, open at the 
bottom outside and at the top inside, all effect the same 
purpose and are simple and inexpensive contrivances. 
Cooper's ventilator (fig. 35), which consists- of a series 
of apertures in the glass of a window pane, arranged 
in a circle so as to be capable of being more or less 
completely closed by a circular glass disc with corre- 
sponding apertures movable on a central pivot, does not 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 



24; 



admit the air in an upward direction, but breaks it up 
into a number of divided currents, thus lessening- the 
tendency to draught. The same object can be attained 
by placing- wire g-auze or muslin over any inlet opening. 
The most generally used wall inlet ventilators are 
Sheringham's valve, Tobin's tube, and Ellison's conical 

bricks. 

In the Sheringham valve 
(fig-. 36) air passes through 
the wall by means of a per- 
forated iron plate, and is 
then directed upwards by 
a valved plate with side 
checks, which, being hinged 
at its lower border, is cap- 
able of being- more or less 
completely closed by a bal- 
anced weight. The usual 
size of the inlet opening- in 
these ventilators is 9 inches 
by 3, giving" an area of 27 
square inches. 

In Tobin's tube (fig-. 34) 
air is introduced from the 
outside at the floor level 
through a perforated plate, 
and then passes up a verti- 
cal tube to a height of from 
four to six feet above the 
floor. After escaping- from 
the tube, the current of air 
ascends more or less verti- 
cally for several feet, before it begins to spread out and 
mix with the air of the room. In these two contrivances 

R 2 




FIG. 36. A. Sheringham's 
Valve. B. Ellison's Conical 
Brick Ventilators. 



244 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

(Tobin's tube and the Sheringham valve) the entering 
air may be filtered through muslin or cotton wool, or 
made to impinge upon a tray containing water, and so 
deposit its sooty particles a procedure often advisable 
in smoky towns. 

Ellison's bricks (fig. 36) are pierced with conical 
holes; the small opening, 1 inch in diameter, being 
placed outside the house, whilst the larger opening, ij 
inch in diameter, is placed inside. The thickness of the 
brick is 4^ inches. The air passing through these 
conical apertures becomes widely distributed in every 
direction ; and in this way its entrance is rendered 
imperceptible and unproductive of draught. 

All the inlet ventilators now described are intended 
to utilise the movements produced by masses of air in 
contiguity being at unequal temperatures. For this 
reason they should be protected as far as possible from 
the perflating action of the wind. This cannot, how- 
ever, always be done ; and when a strong cold wind is 
blowing into a ventilator, even of the most approved 
sort, a most unbearable draught is the result. To 
obviate this, there should be some means of controlling 
the amount of entering air by partially closing the 
ventilator, and in many cases the ventilator must be 
closed altogether. Sheringham's valve, Tobin's tube, 
and louvred inlets, fulfil these requirements very satis- 
factorily. It is often found that inlet ventilators are 
acting as outlets for the escape of air, when fresh air is 
entering a room from other sources. This cannot be 
obviated, nor indeed is it necessary. All that can be 
done is to place the inlets in the best possible position 
for distributing the entering air throughout the apart- 
ment without causing a draught, and to close up all such 
sources of entering air as are productive of draughts. 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 245 

The usual outlet for the vitiated air of a room is the 
chimney flue; and this, for an ordinary medium sized 
sitting-room, with a fire burning in the grate, is suf- 
ficient for three or four people, provided no gas is 
alight, or the gas lamp has its own special ventilating 
arrangement. With an ordinary fire, from 10,000 to 
15,000 cubic feet of air are drawn up the chimney in an 
hour. Heated air rises to the top of a room, therefore 
the proper place to admit of the vitiated air escaping is 
in or near the ceiling. 

Neil Arnott's or Boyle's valves (small talc plates), 
which open into the chimney flue near the ceiling, are 
sometimes used as outlets for foul air. They permit air 
to pass into the flue, but prevent its return; the objec- 
tions to their use are that they occasionally permit the 
reflux of smoke into the room, and their movements 
backwards and forwards produce a slight clicking 
noise. If exit shafts other than the chimney flue are 
provided, they should be short and straight; otherwise 
friction, and loss of heat by passage of the air through 
an exposed tube, will stop the current altogether, or 
reverse it, causing a back draught. The escaping air 
must have its temperature kept up, or it will become 
cooler than the air of the apartment. 

One of the best methods ol attaining this object, 
which might be put in practice in all new buildings, is 
to construct a shaft at one side of, or surrounding the 
chimney flue, with an inlet near the ceiling of the room, 
and the outlet at the level of the chimney top. The air 
escaping from the room will then have its temperature 
kept up by contact with the chimney flue, thus aiding 
the updraught, whilst the risk of reflux of smoke will be 
avoided. The air flues may be moulded in the same 
piece of fireclay as the smoke flue ; but those from dif- 



246 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



ferent rooms should not be connected in any way, or 
foul air from one room might pass into another. 

The combustion of gas may be made a very effective 
means of getting rid of foul air. It has been found by 
experiment that the combustion of one cubic foot of coal 
gas causes the discharge of IOOO cubic feet of air. An 
extraction shaft may be placed over a gas lamp or 
chandelier, or by means of a Benham's ventilating globe 
light, or a Mackinnel's ventilator, slightly warmed fresh 
air may be admitted at the same time as foul air is 
extracted. 

Mackinnel's ventilator (fig. 37) is very useful for a 




FIG. 37. Mackinnel's ventilator. 

room which has no other apartment over it. Two 
tubes, one inside the other, are carried through the 
ceiling or roof of the building. The inner one, which 
is for the extraction of foul heated air, projects outside 
above the outer, and inside also below it. At its lower 
end a circular horizontal rim is attached to the inner 
tube which deflects the air entering by the outer tube, 
and causes it to pass for a short distance parallel to the 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 247 

ceiling- before falling- into the room. The g-as burners 
or lamps used to light the room may be placed imme- 
diately under this ventilator. The inner or extraction 
tube should have its top protected by a cover or cowl, 
to prevent the wind blowing down and the entrance of 
rain, which by evaporation might so cool the escaping 
air as to cause it to be heavier than the air of the 
apartment. The entering air will be slightly warmed 
by its passage over the heated extraction shaft. The 
area of the outer tube for the passage of fresh air 
should be equal to, or slighly larger (for there is more 
friction to overcome) than the area of the inner tube for 
exit of foul air. Mackinnel's ventilator is well adapted 
for large buildings, as schools, churches, halls, etc., 
which have no upper floors or storeys. Benham's 
ventilating globe light, as its name expresses, combines 
ventilation and lighting ; slightly warmed fresh air is 
admitted, and foul air is extracted with the products of 
combustion. In theatres sunlight burners are largely 
used ; they aid the extraction of foul air, but do not 
admit fresh air. 

Extraction shafts, like inlet openings, are liable to 
have their action reversed under certain circumstances. 
When the wind is blowing down upon them, when rain 
gets in, when the escaping air is subject to much cooling 
in an exposed shaft, or when there are more outlets than 
one in a room, one predominating over the others, down 
draughts are likely to occur. This most frequently 
happens when the draught up the chimney is very great 
from there being a large fire burning ; then there is a 
tendency for every other opening into a room to become 
an inlet. Also, when the wind is blowing down an exit 
shaft or chimney flue, the windows or inlet ventilators 
may become outlets. These matters can, however, 



248 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

generally be regulated by attention to the facts and 
principles which have been already laid down as a 
guide to proper ventilation. 

It will be convenient to mention in this place some 
facts with regard to loss of velocity in air shalts by 
friction. The actual loss can in some cases be deter- 
mined by calculating the theoretical velocity in an air 
shaft by Montgolfier's formula, and then ascertaining 
practically by means of a current meter or anemometer 
the actual rate at which the air is issuing or escaping. 
The difference represents the loss due to friction ; but 
allowance must of course be made for disturbing forces 
such as the perflating or aspirating action of the wind. 
Contrasting two similar tubes of equal sectional area, 
the loss by friction will be directly as the length of the 
tube. If the two similar tubes are of unequal size, the 
loss by friction is inversely as the diameter of the cross 
section in each. 

When two tubes are dissimilar in shape, the loss by 
friction is inversely as the square roots of the sectional 
areas. A circle is a figure which includes the greatest 
area within the smallest periphery ; thus, if there are 
two tubes, one of which is circular in section and the 
other square, but having the same area (i square foot), 
the loss by friction is directly as the periphery, and in 

this case is as ?1, the periphery of the square being 

4 

four feet and of the circle 3^ feet. Every right angle 
in a bent shaft diminishes the velocity of the current 
one-half. It will thus be seen that air shafts should pre- 
ferably be circular in section, short, and straight, so as 
to diminish the loss by friction as far as possible. The 
absurdity of ventilating soil pipes and drains by narrow 
pipes, I inch or less in diameter, of great length, and 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 249 

bent on themselves often to a right angle, is apparent 
from the above statements. The ventilation of drains is 
always difficult to establish; carried out by such 
methods it becomes an impossibility. 

Ventilating- appliances whose object is the supply of 
artificially warmed air, will be considered separately in 
the chapter on Heating and Warming. 

Artificial ventilation. Under this heading are usually 
described methods of extraction of air from inhabited 
buildings by means of heat, steam, or fans; and methods 
of propulsion of air into buildings by mechanical means. 
It has been found convenient to describe under natural 
ventilation of rooms the ventilating effects produced by 
fires and chimneys in ordinary rooms; and the extrac- 
tive properties of gas lights have been also alluded to 
although, properly speaking, fires and gas are artificial 
means of ventilation. 

The fire and chimney of an ordinary sitting room 
are types of the methods used on a larger scale for ex- 
traction by heat. The principle is the same in all, and 
depends on the heating of a column of air in an extrac- 
tion shaft, which being thus made lighter ascends ; as 
long as the heat is applied, a continual current of air 
towards the shaft is produced, which in its turn being 
heated, ascends and escapes, to be replaced by more 
from below. 

It is in this way that some mines are ventilated. The 
underground workings and galleries of the mine are 
connected with two large shafts leading to the open air 
an upcast shaft and a downcast shaft in such a man- 
ner that, if air is made to pass down the downcast or 
intake shaft, it has to travel through all the workings of 
the mine before it can escape by the upcast or return 
shaft. 



250 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The power which produces this continued movement 
of air is supplied by a furnace at the bottom of the up- 
cast shaft exerting- an extractive force by the heated 
column of air, as previously described. In many mines 
the extractive force is exerted by means of a powerful 
rotary exhaust fan placed at the top of the upcast shaft. 
Numerous doors and partitions are necessary in the 
galleries and workings, in order to make the air traverse 
the whole length of these, and prevent its taking short 
cuts. An enormous volume of fresh air must be passed 
through a mine in the course of every hour in order to 
supply the quantity necessary for the respiration of the 
men and ponies employed underground, and to with- 
draw the products of combustion of lights (lamps and 
candles) and gunpowder blasting, and replace these in- 
jurious gases by pure air. 

Where fire damp (CH 4 ) is evolved from the strata cut 
through, the ventilation must be even in excess of these 
requirements, in order to dilute this gas sufficiently to 
prevent its forming an explosive compound with atmo- 
spheric oxygen. The same may be said with regard to 
the evolution of carbonic acid from the rocks under- 
ground, which so frequently takes place. This gas 
must not be allowed to form more than a certain per- 
centage of the underground air, or its asphyxiating 
properties will be exerted on all animal life within its 
influence. The injurious effects produced by gunpowder 
blasting, which have been already mentioned (p. 216), 
as the result of the evolution of so many poisonous gases 
into the air, are no longer necessary evils in the life of 
the collier or coal miner since the introduction of cart- 
ridges made of quicklime, which swell up from slaking 
when water is run over them, and exert their action 
without producing any gas at all. By the use of such 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 25! 

cartridges there is besides no risk of explosion from 
ignition of fire-damp. Other substitutes for explosives 
in fire-damp collieries are plugs of dry wood, which 
swell when wetted, wedges worked by hydraulic pres- 
sure, and cartridges containing compressed air at ex- 
tremely high pressures. 

Dynamite is now largely used instead of gunpowder, 
as it is more powerful, may be used under water, and 
requires no hard tamping. It is a mixture of nitro- 
glycerine C 3 H 5 3(NO 3 ) and infusorial earth or kiesel- 
guhr. Carbonic oxide is not one of the products 
of its explosion under pressure; and hence its superi- 
ority to gunpowder, in which carbonic oxdie forms 7| 
per cent, of the explosive gases. There is besides no 
formation of sulphuretted hydrogen and marsh gas 
when dynamite is exploded. These gases form respec- 
tively about 2 per cent, of the total gases resulting from 
gunpowder explosion. Carbonic acid and nitrogen 
form nearly the entire bulk of the gases resulting from 
nitro-glycerine explosion in closed vessels. Nitrated 
gun-cotton and blasting gelatine (nitro-cotton and 
nitro-glycerine) are also superior to gunpowder for the 
same reasons ; carbonic acid and nitrogen forming 
almost the entire bulk of the gases generated when 
these substances are exploded under pressure. 

A new explosive termed Roburite has been lately 
introduced into some Lancashire collieries. It is a mix- 
ture of nitro-benzenes and ammonium nitrate, and exerts 
its explosive powers without the production of any flame 
such as might ignite coal dust or inflammable gas in the 
mine. Several cases of poisoning, however, have oc- 
curred amongst the miners, both from handling the 

* Encyclopedia Britannica Article on " Mining," by C. Le Neve 
Foster, D.Sc. 



252 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

cartridges, and from breathing- the fumes after explo- 
sion. It appears that the nitro-benzol is capable, when 
handled, of being absorbed into the system through the 
skin. In the blood it is reduced, forming aniline, which 
gives rise to cyanosis, dyspnoea, and syncope. The 
poisoning from the fumes after explosion is probably due 
to the generation of a certain amount of carbonic oxide. 
From the report of a committee appointed to inquire 
into the effect of roburite on the health of the workmen, 
it appears that if stringent regulations are enforced to 
prevent handling of the cartridges and to ensure 
thorough ventilation of the workings after explosion 
before the miners approach, no harmful conditions need 
arise. 

Notwithstanding the importance of an abundant 
supply of pure air to all the workings of a mine, it has 
been found impossible by the Government Inspectors to 
insist even on so low a standard of purity as that indi- 
cated by 0-25 per cent, of CO 2 in the air. It is said that 
in every mine at least 6000 cubic feet of fresh air per 
hour should be supplied for every man employed below, 
for if this quantity is much reduced, there is a serious 
diminution in the amount of work performed by the 
men, so that even commercially it pays employers to 
have adequate ventilation. In mines where fire-damp 
or choke-damp are evolved, the amount of fresh air 
supplied should exceed this figure. The upcast and 
downcast shafts in collieries are usually from 8 to 12 
feet in diameter ; the furnace at the bottom of the up- 
cast shaft must be regulated according to the number of 
men employed and the amount of work that is going on 
at any time below ground. 

Public halls, hospitals, and other large buildings are 
sometimes ventilated on the extraction principle. Shafts 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 253 

for the escape of vitiated air lead from the different 
rooms and open into the chimney just over the furnace. 
The air from these shafts should not be used to supply 
the fire or furnace, but should open into the flue just 
above it, where the draught is greatest. 

The column of air in the extraction shaft may be 
heated by steam or hot-water pipes instead of by a fire. 
This is the plan adopted at the Hopital Lariboislere in 
Paris. The extraction shaft is heated throughout the 
greater part of its length by spiral hot-water pipes 
coming from a boiler in the basement. These hot 
water pipes are also carried into the wards, where they 
are coiled so as to warm the fresh air entering from 
without; they then return to the boiler, and thus com- 
plete the circuit. The tubes from the wards for the 
escape of foul air open into the bottom of the extraction 
shaft. In summer, the circulation of hot water in the 
pipes in the wards is stopped, the circuit being com- 
pleted by return pipes from the top of the extraction 
shaft, so that the ventilation continues, but the air enter- 
ing the wards is not artificially warmed. 

The column of air in the extraction shaft may be 
heated by gas instead of by fire; but this method is 
more suitable for the smaller tubes used as exit shafts 
in ordinary sized dwelling rooms. Foul air may also 
be extracted by passing a steam jet into a chimney 
or upcast shaft. The cone of steam emitted from a 
boiler is said to set in motion and drive before it a body 
of air equal to 217 times its own bulk. The shafts for 
the escape of foul air must open into the extraction shaft 
below the steam jet. 

On board steamships and men-of-war it has been 
found that very effective ventilation can be attained by 
causing the furnaces to extract the 'air from all parts of 



254 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the ship through special shafts. By this means also, if 
the boilers and steam apparatus are enclosed in iron 
casings, as far as possible, within which the air shafts 
open, the temperature of the stoke hole is greatly re- 
duced. 

Some of the chief objections to the method of extrac- 
tion by heat are: (i) where the heat is produced by a 
furnace, it is most difficult to keep this at a constant 
height, consequently the draught is often very irregular. 
This difficulty is not encountered where the extraction 
shaft is heated by steam, gas, or hot-water pipes, or 
where the air in it is forced upwards by steam. (2) In 
all cases where a number of air conduits from rooms at 
different distances open into an extraction shaft, there is 
a great tendency to create powerful currents from rooms 
that are near, and have short conduits leading from 
them; whilst from the distant apartments with long and 
perhaps much curved conduits, the current may be very 
slight or even nil. This difficulty may to a certain 
extent be overcome by increasing the diameter of the 
longer pipes so as to reduce the friction, and by bending 
the shorter pipes so as to increase it; but in practice it 
is a rather serious drawback. (3) When air is drawn 
out of a room it is somewhat difficult to control the en- 
trance of fresh air to supply its place, especially with 
regard to its points of entry, and its exclusion from 
places such as W.C.'s, from which it is most desirable 
that no air should be taken. 

In the ventilation of factories, steam may often be 
economically and usefully applied as the extraction 
force, but extraction by fans has also been largely used, 
and presents considerable advantages, as the amount of 
draught can be nicely regulated by altering the speed 
(the number of revolutions per minute) at which the fan 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 255 

is driven. It is especially in the textile trades in the 
cotton, woollen, silk, worsted, and flax factories that 
ventilation is most urgently needed. In many of the 
processes of these manufactures the work is not only 
carried on in clouds of dust, but also in greatly heated 
atmospheres which are saturated with moisture, this 
being- necessary in some instances to the proper per- 
formance of the work. To carry off the floating par- 
ticles of dust it is necessary to induce a powerful current 
in the exit shaft, so that the air may be drawn in as if to 
a vortex. In some cases the opening into the exit shaft 
may be in the centre of the room; but it is more often 
advisable to carry the dust away as soon as it origin- 
ates, and before it can mix with the general air of the 
apartment. 

Thus in the wool-sorting trade, each bench on which 
the wool is sorted has an opening leading by means of 
a pipe into the extraction shaft, at the extremity of which 
the exhaust fan is working. When the wool is being 
shaken, the dust, amongst which may be the spores of 
bacilli anthracis, is drawn into the tube and does not 
mix with the air which is inhaled by the workmen. 
The dust is then blown into settling chambers, where it 
is damped by steam jets, and so deposited can be col- 
lected and burnt. In silk-dressing processes, air tubes 
are placed above the machinery with dependent hooded 
openings, which cover the area of dust production and 
quickly remove it. In the dry grinding processes of the 
metal trades, the air tubes are placed level with the 
grindstones and have openings opposite each stone, in 
such positions as to catch the dust, as it is driven off, 
and carry it away at once. The best material for the 
exit shafts or tubes is galvanized sheet iron, as it can be 
made into smooth circular pipes. Arrangements must 



256 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

be made to provide that the draught from the benches 
or workrooms nearest the fan is not so great as to 
prevent the shafts at a distance from working properly. 

A very convenient form of fan is that known as the 
Blackman Air Propeller; it can be used for exhaustion 
or for propulsion, and is very powerful in its action, its 
vanes being large and curved. Another good form of 
fan is that known as the Sturtevant " blower." They 
can be driven by a gas or steam engine. When used 
for propelling air into a building, the rate of movement 
in the main conduit should not exceed 5 feet per second, 
and, where delivered into the rooms, not more than ij 
or 2 feet per second. The warmed fresh air should be 
delivered by the pipes into the rooms near the ceil ngs. 
As it cools, it descends, and becomes equally distributed 
over every part. No special exit shafts are required, 
and those existing near the ceiling should be closed. 
The air finds its way out through fireplaces, doors, win- 
dows, or the innumerable minute apertures, by which 
every room communicates with the exterior. 

Ventilation by propulsion presents several advantages. 
The amount of air delivered and the rate of movement 
can be regulated with nicety, and the entering air can 
be taken from any point desired, can be warmed, cooled 
by a spray of water, or filtered through muslin or cotton 
wool in special chambers ; and all this can be done at 
one spot for a number of rooms or buildings. 

In the Houses of Parliament at Westminster a com- 
bined method of ventilation by propulsion and extrac- 
tion by heat is in operation. Air is propelled by 
rotatory fans along conduits to the basement, where it 
is warmed in winter by passing over steam pipes, and 
then passes upwards through shafts into the space 
beneath the grated floor of the House. The heat can 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 257 

be regulated by covering" the steam pipes with woollen 
cloths, and in summer the entering- air can be sprayed 
with water or cooled by passing over ice in the conduits. 
The vitiated air in the House passes through a per- 
forated glass ceiling in the roof, and is then conducted 
by a shaft to the basement of the clock tower, where it 
passes into the flue of a large furnace. 

In Verity's system air is set in motion by a spray of 
water from a number of very fine jets. The rate of 
motion can be regulated by the tap which supplies the 
jet. The method is useful for houses where it is not 
desired to go to the expense of fans driven by ma- 
chinery. 

Some system of artificial ventilation with a supply of 
warmed fresh air is especially necessary for school- 
rooms, where the amount of cubic space per head is 
often very limited. The English Education Department 
requirements are only 100 cubic feet of space per scholar, 
and 10 square feet of floor space. These are the mini- 
mum requirements ; but even with double these amounts, 
ventilation by natural means in cold weather would be 
productive of draughts and great lowering of temper- 
ature in the room. Dr. Newsholme is of opinion that 
good average requirements for schools are, for each 
scholar, 150 cubic feet of space, 15 square feet of floor 
space, and 1500 to 1800 cubic feet of fresh air per hour. 



Practical Examination of the Ventilation and Air of Inhabited 
Rooms. 

In the first place it is necessary to determine the 
amount of cubic space. In rooms of regular shape this 
may be done by multiplying together the three dimen- 

s 



258 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

sions of height, length, and breadth. If the room is 
irregular in form, containing recesses and projections, 
or with a raised ceiling, it is usually most convenient to 
divide it up into a number of simple parts, whose cubic 
contents can be determined by some one or more of the 
following rules : 

Area of circle = square of diameter (D 2 ) x 07854. 
Circumference of circle = D x 3*1416. 
Area of ellipse = the product of the two diame- 
ters x 07854. 
Circumference of ellipse = half the sum of the two 

diameters x 3*1416 

Area of square = square of one of the sides. 
Area of rectangle = the product of two adjacent 

sides. 

Area of triangle = base x J height. 
Area of any figure bounded by straight lines = di- 
vide into triangles, and take the sum of their 
area. 

Area of segment of circle = (Ch x H x f ) + 

2\_/n 

Ch = chord, H = height. 
Cubic capacity of cube or solid rectangle = length 

x height x breadth. 
Cubic capacity of solid triangle = area of triangle 

X height. 
Cubic capacity of cylinder = area of base (circle) 

X height. 
Cubic capacity of cone or pyramid area of base 

(circle) x J height. 
Cubic capacity of dome = area of base (circle) x f 

height. 

Cubic capacity of sphere = D 8 x 0-5236. 
Thus supposing it was required to determine the cubic 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 2-5Q 

capacity of a circular hospital ward 30 feet in diameter, 
IO feet high, and with a dome shaped roof 5 feet high. 
The area of the base or floor-space is 706*86 square 
feet. The cubic capacity of the cylinder below the 
dome is 706*86 x IO = 7068*6 cubic feet, to which must 
be added the cubic capacity of the dome = 2356*2 cubic 
feet. So that the cubic capacity of the ward is 9424*8 
cubic feet. Deductions must be made for the larger 
pieces of furniture, such as beds, cupboards, wardrobes, 
etc., and for the number of occupants of the room, each 
of whom, if adults, may be taken as occupying about 3 
cubic feet of space. 

Having determined the cubic space, the next point is 
to take note of the direction of the movement of air 
through the various openings into the room. This may 
best be done by observing the direction given to the 
smoke evolved from smouldering brown paper or cotton- 
velvet, when held close to the apertures, some of which 
will be found to act as inlets and others as outlets. The 
rate of movement of air through these apertures may 
be approximately ascertained by placing in them an 
anemometer, which is an instrument consisting of 4 
little revolving sails driven by the wind or current of air. 
The sails turn an axis with an endless screw running on 
small toothed wheels, which, by means of a plate and 
dial, indicate the number of revolutions of the axis and 
the space traversed by the sails. By experiment with 
air moving at a known rate of speed, the anemometer 
may be graduated. It appears, however, that even 
tested anemometers are subject to variations, and too 
much reliance must not be placed on their indications. 
A modification of the water manometer, or pressure 
guage, is occasionally used. The current of air im- 
pinges on the surface of the water in one arm of the 

S2 



26O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

bent tube, and in proportion to its strength drives the 
water up the other arm, which is inclined at a certain 
angle. The records obtained in this manner can be 
compared with the theoretical velocities arrived at by the 
use of Montgolfier's formula, allowances being of course 
made for friction and wind. When the wind is at all 
strong and is blowing directly into inlet ventilators, or 
is exerting a powerful aspirating action on chimneys or 
exit shafts, calculation is useless. 

Estimation of Carbonic Acid in Air Pettenkofer 3 s Method. 
A glass stoppered vessel of known capacity (2 litres 
is a convenient size) is filled with mercury and emptied 
in the place, the air of which is to be examined, or air 
may be forced into the bottle by means of a bellows; 60 
c.c. of clear lime or baryta water are then introduced 
into the vessel ; the mouth is closed and the bottle, after 
being well agitated, is allowed to stand for some hours. 
Some portion of the lime or baryta combines with the 
CO 2 in the air of the vessel. The causticity of the lime 
or baryta solution is consequently lessened. Supposing 
lime water to be used in the experiment, its causticity 
must be previously determined by means of a standard 
solution of crystallised oxalic acid (see Appendix), I c.c. 
of which exactly neutralises 1-26 milligrammes of lime 
(== 0-5 c.c. of CO 2 ). The exact point of neutralisation 
can be determined by turmeric paper. By this means 
the number of milligrammes of lime in the 60 c.c. of 
lime water used in the experiment can be determined. 
After the bottle has stood for a few hours, 30 c.c. of the 
lime water should be withdrawn and again tested with 
oxalic acid solution, and the loss of causticity, represent- 
ing the number of milligrammes of lime which have 
combined with the CO 3 of the air, noted. 

Example. In a jar of capacity 2000 c.c. (2 litres), it is 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 26l 

found that 30 c.c. of lime water, after standing- 8 hours, 
have lost causticity represented by 10 c.c. of the oxalic 
acid solution. Therefore the 60 c.c. of lime water intro- 
duced have lost causticity represented by 20 c.c. of the 
oxalic acid solution, equivalent to 10. c.c. of CO 3 . 

2000 60 ( = 1940) c.c. of air in the jar are thus seen 
to contain 10 c.c. of CO. 2 , and 1000 c.c. contain 5.15 c.c. 
of CO 2 ; or the CO 2 is present to the extent of 5*15 parts 
per 1000, or 0-5 15 per cent. 

If the air of the room is above 32 F., a correction 
must be made by adding- 0-2 per cent, of the result to it 
for every degree above freezing 1 point. A correction for 
height above sea level may be made, if the place is in 
a mountainous district, by a simple rule of three from 
the observed height of the barometer. 

Estimation of Organic Matter in Air. The simplest 
method is to draw a measured volume of air to be 
examined, by means of an aspirator, through a wash- 
bottle, or a succession of wash-bottles, containing- dis- 
tilled water free from ammonia. The water absorbs 
the organic matters or a portion of them, and it can then 
be submitted to analysis for free and albuminoid am- 
monia according- to Wanklyn's method. The results 
can be expressed as milligrammes of ammonia and 
albuminoid ammonia per cubic metre ( = 1000 litres) 
of the air examined. They are necessarily indications 
only of the amount of nitrogenised organic matter in the 
air. The oxidisable matters in air, including- putrescible 
organic matters, sulphuretted hydrogen, nitrous acid, 
and tarry matters, may be determined by submitting- a 
part of the water used in the above experiment to the 
permanganate of potassium test. What has been said 
in the chapter on examination of water (p. 83) applies 
equally to the test as now proposed for the estimation of 
oxidisable matters in air. 



262 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Microscopical Examination of Suspended Matters. In 
Pouchet's aeroscope air is drawn through a glass 
funnel narrowed to a fine point, which just rests upon a 
drop of pure glycerine on a glass slide. The funnel and 
slide are enclosed in an air-tight bottle or box, which is 
connected by tubing with an aspirator, the open mouth 
of the funnel projecting above the top of the bottle or 
box. The suspended matters are caught in the gly- 
cerine and can be examined with an immersion lens. 

Another method is to immerse a bent glass tube, pre- 
viously heated to redness (to sterilise it), in a freezing 
mixture of salt and ice, and to slowly aspirate air 
through it. The moisture of the air is condensed into 
drops in the lowest part of the bend, entangling sus- 
pended matters with it, and a drop of this fluid can be 
examined microscopically. 

Examination of Air for Bacteria, Fungi, and Moulds. 
Hesse's apparatus is the most convenient. It consists of 
a hollow glass cylinder, one end of which can be closed 
with an india-rubber cap, whilst the other is connected 
with an aspirator. All parts of the apparatus having 
been cleaned with corrosive sublimate solution and then 
with alcohol, 50 c.c. of nutrient gelatine are introduced 
into the cylinder, and the whole sterilised by steaming 
for half-an-hour on three successive days. After the final 
sterilisation, the cylinder is rotated on its long axis, so 
that the gelatine solidifies in the form of a coating 
over the whole of the interior. The india-rubber cap is 
now removed from one end, while the other is connected 
with the aspirator, and the apparatus is ready for use. 
As the air is drawn slowly through, spores and germs 
fall on the gelatine, and colonies, visible to the naked 
eye, are formed in a few days, and may be counted. It 
is usually found that the colonies of moulds and fungi 



AIR AND VENTILATION. 263 

are formed further from the mouth of the cylinder than 
the bacterial colonies it thus appearing that the spores 
or germs of these organisms can be carried greater dis- 
tances through the air than the bacteria. In pure air it 
would seem that the moulds and fungi are present rela- 
tively in larger numbers than the bacteria, whilst in air 
vitiated by respiration or organic effluvia of various 
kinds the reverse is the case. 



264 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



CHAPTER IV. 

WARMING AND LIGHTING. 
WARMING. 

IN all cold climates means are provided for heating the 
interior of houses. It is a very difficult matter to supply 
a satisfactory degree of warmth for everybody, as 
individual susceptibilities to heat and cold are so vari- 
ous, depending- as they do upon age, sex, robustness of 
constitution, and previous habitude. It may, however, 
be permissible to state that as a general rule, the 
temperature of a sitting-room or work-room should be 
about 60 F. to 65 F. The clothing of the individual 
should be so adjusted that a position of rest at this tem- 
perature in a well-ventilated room, free from draughts, 
shall cause neither a sensation of chill nor a feeling of 
undue heat. 

Whilst this degree of warmth (60 to 65) may be 
regarded as a suitable one for the average healthy 
individual, in the extremes of life in infancy and old 
age and in cases of sickness, a higher temperature 
reaching up to 70 is often desirable. 



Radiation. 

In this country, houses are generally warmed by 
radiant heat from open fireplaces. By radiation is 
meant the pass'age of heat from warm bodies to cold 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 265 

ones, the rays of heat passing 1 through the air but with- 
out warming- it. This form of heat is no doubt the most 
healthy, for whilst objects within the range of the fire are 
heated, no impurities are added to the air of the room. 
It is, however, extremely wasteful, for the greater part 
of the heTT(l~~ar~least) escapes up the chimney. The 
column of air in the chimney flue is heated,, and, becom- 
ing lighter than the external air, escapes at the roof of 
the house to be replaced by colder and denser air from 
below. An open fire, therefore, as we have seen in the 
chapter on ventilation, acts as a powerful ventilator. 

The intensity of radiant heat is inversely as the 
square of the distance of the heated object from the 
source of heat. Thus if there are two objects, i foot 
and 3 feet distant respectively from an open fireplace, 
the more distant object only receives the amount of 
heat received by the nearer object. This fact shows the 
impossibility of warming equally all parts of a room, 
when the source of heat is an open fireplace. 

Of late much has been done to improve open fire- 
places by securing the greatest amount of heat produc- 
tion with the least consumption of fuel. Some of these 
improvements have been made at the suggestion of 
Mr. Pridgin Teale. They may be thus summarized: 

The width of the grate at the back should be about 
one-third the width in front facing the room, the sides of 
the grate being sloped out at the necessary angle. 
The back and sides of the grate should be formed of 
fire clay, and the back instead of rising perpendicularly 
should be " rifle-backed," ;>., curved forward so that 
the flames may play upon it (fig. 38). The curved por- 
tion becomes heated by some of the upward rays, which 
would otherwise be lost up the chimney, and radiates 
this heat into the room. 



266 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



The floor of the grate should be formed of a solid slab 
of fire clay; or it the lower firebars are' retained, a 
shield should be placed on the hearth, rising- as high as 
the bottom bar of the grate, so as to form a hot air 
chamber under the grate completely closed off from the 
air of the room (fig. 38;. The object of this arrange- 



E 




FIG. 38. Rifle-back Stove with Economiser. 
A. Hot Air Chamber. B. Flue. 

ment is to check the bottom draught und.er a fire, which 
causes too quick combustion and waste of fuel. 

The whole fireplace should be brought well forward 
into the room, and the chimney throat should be nar- 
rowed as much as possible. 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 267 

Open grates of this description create much smoke, as 
the combustion of the fuel is by no means complete. 
Attempts have been made to construct a smokeless open 
grate, and the plan which has been found on the whole 
to answer the best is to " underfeed " the fire, by which 
is meant that the supply of fresh fuel is introduced 
beneath the incandescent coal which forms the top of 
the fire, and through which the gases arising from the 
fresh coal must pass, thus securing complete combustion. 

In one of the best of these smokeless fireplaces, a 
curved ledge projects from the bottom of the grate. 
The fresh fuel is placed on this ledge and forced under 
the blazing coal above by means of a special kind of 
shovel. These "underfed" grates are found to be very 
efficient heaters for the amount of coal consumed, and 
they continuously expose a clear fire free from smoke, 
but they require more care in stoking and management 
than ordinary grates. 

Wherever possible, fireplaces and chimney flues 
should be built in one of the inner walls of a house. 
The waste heat of the flue will then serve to warm the 
upper rooms at least, and the total loss will be less con- 
siderable than in the case of fireplaces built in an outer 
wall. It is evident that as open fireplaces act as ven- 
tilators for extraction of air, to carry on this function, 
the column of air in the flue must be kept continuously 
heated, otherwise the chimney will not "draw," and 
back currents of smoke enter the room. In an ideal 
stove, the heat escaping up the chimney should be not 
more than sufficient to maintain a good draught, the 
rest being radiated into the room. 

With a reduction in the price of coal gas, open gas 
fires have come more largely into use. As usually 
constructed, the flames from a row of Bunsen burners 



268 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

play upon asbestos in lumps or fibre, which is heated to 
a red heat. Until gas is supplied at is. or is. 6d. per 
1000 cubic feet, which could easily be done if it were 
freed from illuminants, or until a public supply of water 
gas is made available, gas fires must be more expensive 
than coal. But they have the advantage of being very 
cleanly there is no soot in the chimney flue and no 
dust or ashes very convenient, and causing no trouble. 
As regards the prevention of smoke, the more extended 
use in our large towns of coal gas for heating and cook- 
ing, would undoubtedly tend to free the air from much 
of the soot and smoke that now pollute it. Fogs, which 
depend so largely upon climate and site, would be just 
as frequent, if less sooty and yellow. They would also 
be as sulphurous, for the sulphur compounds are pro- 
duced by gas and coal combustion alike, and we can 
never hope to eradicate sulphurous acid from the air so 
long as we use coal or its derivatives as our only fuel. 

It is probable that water gas would come largely into 
use for heating and illuminating purposes for gas fires 
and gas cooking stoves, and for incandescent burners 
were it not so dangerous, from containing such a large 
percentage of carbonic oxide. Water gas is produced 
by passing steam through incandescent coke or other 
carbonaceous matter, raised to a high temperature in a 
" generator " furnace by the aid of an air-blast. The 
incandescent coke gives off what is known as " pro- 
ducer gas," and this is led away from the generator 
before the steam is introduced. The introduction of the 
steam is only continued for about four minutes, after 
which time it is necessary to turn on the air-blast again 
to re-heat the coke. It will thus be seen that the pro- 
cess consists of alternately blowing the generator hot 
(for 10 minutes), when producer gas is formed and led 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 269 

away, and of making- water gas by introducing 1 steam 
over the hot fuel (for 4 minutes). The water gas, as 
formed, is passed over scrubbers and purified over oxide 
of iron, in much the same way as coal gas, before being- 
stored in gas holders : it then consists of hydrogen gas 
and of carbonic oxide (25 to 40 per cent.). In heating- 
power water gas is far superior to coal gas; and as the 
only products of combustion are H. 2 O vapour and CO. 2 , 
the injurious SO. 2 products of combustion of coal gas are 
avoided. Water gas, too, can be produced very cheaply, 
viz., at about 4^. per 1000 cubic feet. The " producer 
gas," consisting- largely of carbonic oxide, is used for 
heating- the boilers which generate the steam. Some 
recent experiences have shown that there is a danger 
connected with the use of water gas from the fact of its 
being odourless. The gas contains a sufficiency of car- 
bonic oxide to cause it to act as a powerful respiratory 
poison, and yet from being- odourless, escapes, if they 
occur, are not at once detected, as is the case with coal 
gas. Possibly a remedy may be found in impregnating 
water gas with the vapour of some strong smelling sub- 
stance, but some means must also be found to reduce the 
percentage of carbonic oxide (see p. 205). 

It is, perhaps, needless to point out that plumbers 
should never be allowed to fix a gas fire, or in fact any 
gas consuming appliance (such as a bath-heater) which 
burns more than 5 feet of gas per hour, without provid- 
ing a chimney-flue to carry off the products of combus- 
tion to the outer air. These products being invisible, 
are supposed either to be non-existent or harmless by 
uneducated men. 

Ventilating grates may be combined with open fire- 
places. The usual method is to construct a chamber 
lined with fire-clay at the back and sides of the fire- 



27O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

place, and extending- up behind the chimney-flue. An 
opening below admits fresh air from outside the house 
into the chamber ; here it is warmed, and escapes by 
an opening- into the room above the chimney piece, 
where it mixes with the current of air, at this spot 
flowing- up towards the ceiling-. Gallon's Grate, and 
the Manchester School Grate act upon this principle. 



{ion and Convection. 

In conduction heat passes from one molecule of air to 
another in contact with it. As air is a very bad con- 
ductor of heat, the process is very slow, and is altogether 
absorbed as regards heating- by fires and stoves in 
the much more effectual convection, which is the con- 
veyance of heat by means of the movements of masses 
of heated air. Air when heated expands, and becomes 
lighter bulk for bulk than an equal volume of colder air, 
so it rises upwards, its place being- taken by the colder 
denser air. 

Houses are heated by means of stoves in which coal, 
coke, gas, or oil is burnt, by hot-water pipes, and by 
steam pipes. The air coming- in contact with the heated 
surfaces, is warmed, expands, and rises, and its place 
is taken by cold air to undergo a like process. In this 
way currents of warmed air circulate about a room, 
which tend to heat every part of it equally. 

The great distinction between this class of stoves and 
open fire-places is seen to be that, whilst in the latter, 
the heated air escapes up the chimney, in the former, 
the air, heated by contact with the stove, circulates 
through the room. 

There is an immense variety of different kinds of heat- 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 27! 

ing- stoves, but they may all be classified under close_ 
stoves and ventilatm* stoves. In the former kind no 
arrangements exist for providing- fresh warmed air ; 
whilst in the latter, fresh air from outside the house is 
made to circulate through the stove, without coming into 
contact with the products of combustion, and is, when 

In all stoves economy 



of fuel is aimed at, by providing doors and dampers to 
shut off the draught and make the combustion as slow 
as possible; and the flues are often carried horizontally 
for some distance, in order that a part of the waste heat 
may be utilised. It is evident that the slower the com- 
bustion and the more complete the utilisation of the 
heat of the burning fuel in warming the room, the less 
does a close stove act as a ventilator ; and economy of 
fuel and utilisation of heat are purchased at the expense 
of healthiness. 

The ventilating- stoves which introduce a supply of 
fresh warmed air are decidedly more healthy; but there 
are certain disadvantages in the use of stoves of all 
kinds which require consideration. 

In the first place, stoves are apt to render the air of a 

room too dry. There~fs the same amount of moisture 

in a cubic foot of the heated air as in the cold air before 

it is warmed : but the relative humidity, pf the Ideated air 

is greatly diminished, as hot air is capable of holding- 

more moisture, before saturation is reached, than cold 

air; and it is upon relative humidity that health and 

comfort depend. This defect may, to a certain extent, 

I be overcome by placing vessels of water in the room or 

Ion the stove. 

Secondly, if the stove becomes overheated if the sur- 
face temperature rises above 14.0 or 150 F. the or- 
ganic matters in the air become charred by contact with 



272 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the heated surface, and a disagreeable close smell is 
perceived. 

Lastly the presence of carbonic oxide a most poi- 
sonous gas has been detected in the air of stove-heated 
rooms, more especially when the stove is of cast iron. 
Either this gas passes out of the furnace through invisi- 
ble fissures in the cast iron plates and joints ; or it 
traverses the walls of the stove at a red heat. Others 
suppose that the gas may be formed by incomplete 
combustion of particles of carbon or organic matter 
floating in the air, when brought into contact with the 
hot metal. 

Cast iron stoves are very liable to become over-heated, 
as being good conductors they rapidly heat and cool. 
In such stoves, therefore, the heating surface should be 
increased by vertical flanges projecting from the top 
and sides; by which means the heat being conveyed to 
a larger surface is less intense, because cooling is more 
rapid. Care also is required in adding fresh fuel. It is 
safer not to use cast iron stoves at all, unless lined in- 
side with fire clay, which being a good non-conductor 
prevents the over rapid heating of the iron walls, and 
the warming of the room is altogether more equable. 
There are many stoves now made entirely of fire clay 
and china, with arrangements for the supply of warmed 
fresh air at an agreeable temperature of about 70 or 
75. They are especially valuable for heating halls and 
public buildings. 

Steam pipes are largely used for heating factories and 
workshops where steam power and waste steam are at 
hand. 

Two kinds of hot-water pipes for heating purposes 
are in use. In the low pressure system, 4-inch cast iron 
pipes are connected with a boiler so as to provide a 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 273 

complete circulation. The water is heated in the boiler, 
circulates through the pipes, parting- with some of its 
heat to the air in contact with them, and returns again 
to the boiler. From the highest part of the system, a 
small escape pipe, to give vent to steam and hot air, 
must be carried into the outer air. The water circulat- 
ing in such a system never acquires a temperature 
exceeding 200 F. or thereabouts. 

In the high pressure system (Perkins 5 ) the pipes are 
of welded iron with thick walls and ^ inch internal 
diameter. They pass through the furnace, no boiler 
being required. The water being under pressure can 
be heated to 300 or 350 F. 

It is estimated that for every IOOO cubic feet of space 
in a dwelling house, 12 feet of low pressure piping is 
required to raise the temperature to 65 F., whilst 8 or 
9 feet of the high pressure piping is sufficient. 

Soft water is far preferable to hard water for use in 
boilers and hot-water pipes. The lime deposit from 
hard water gradually narrows the calibre of the pipes, 
which in time may become completely blocked. In 
boilers, the lime deposit forms a non-conducting lining, 
which prevents the passage of heat to the water, and is 
a frequent cause of explosion, especially in kitchen 
boilers. When the fur lining is thick, the iron boiler- 
plates become red hot from the heat of the fire ; and 
should a crack in the fur suddenly form, the water, 
coming into contact with the red hot metal, is converted 
into steam with explosive violence. Another cause of 
explosion in kitchen boilers which are not connected 
with a hot-water cistern, or are unprovided with a 
steam escape pipe, is the blocking of the pipe which 
supplies cold water to the boiler. This occasionally 
happens after a hard frost, if the pipe is unprotected. 



274 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH, 



LIGHTING. 

The daylight illumination of a room is a matter 
greatly affecting the comfort, if not the health of the 
occupants, and is of especial importance in the case of 
factories, workshops, and schools, where the eyesight is 
concentrated on small objects for many hours at a time. 
The principles of illumination may be best illustrated 
by the requirements of a school-room in which young 
children are taught. 

The best shape for a school-room is an oblong, with 
the windows in one of the longer sides only. There 
should be no windows on the opposite side, for cross~ 
lights are better avoided, although some authorities think 
cross-lights are not injurious. The area of the windows, 
clear of sash frames, should be not less than one-tenth, 
and not more than one-fourth of the floor area of the 
room. The windows should reach as high as the ceiling 
of the room, and open directly into the external air. 

The school desks should be arranged parallel with 
one another, but at right angles with the windows, 
and wherever possible the desks should be placed in the 
space intermediate between two windows. The scholars 
should sit with the left hand nearest the windows, so 
that the illumination of books and lessons may be from 
the left front. There is then plenty of light on the 
objects on the desk, but the rays are not reflected 
directly into the eyes of the scholars as they are in front 
illumination with desks facing the windows. 

The defective lighting in school-rooms is one of the 
chief causes of short sight. The child not being able to 
read its book when placed at the proper distance (15 
inches) from its face, stoops over the^desk to lessen the 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 275 

distance; the eyes converge when brought too near the 
object, and the muscular strain thus induced causes a 
gradual elongation of the antero-posterior axis of the 
eyeball, with the production of myopia, i.e., the image 
of the object seen forms in front of the retina, and is 
blurred and indistinct unless the object itself is very 
close to the eyes. 

As subsidiary factors in the prevention of visual 
defects in children, the following are important: The 
type of school-books should be large and well-defined. 
For the school-books of very young children Pica type 
should be used, and for those of older children Small 
Pica not Bourgeois or Minion. The desk should slope 
at an angle of 35 for writing, and 45 for reading : the 
height of the seat from the ground should equal the 
length of the scholar's leg from the sole of the foot to 
the knee : the depth of the seat from front to back 
should not be less than 8 inches : the distance of the 
front of the seat from a perpendicular line let fall 
from the edge of the desk should be not more than i 
inch, or may be o : and the perpendicular distance of 
the seat from the edge of the desk should be one-sixth 
the height of the scholar (Newsholme). The seat 
should be provided with a straight back and curved 
pad or cushion to fit into and support the small of 
the back and loins. In this way the most comfort- 
able positions may be obtained for reading and writ- 
ing, and the drooping of the head from weariness 
which brings the eyes too close to the book is avoided. 
For young children the lesson hours should be broken 
by frequent short intervals for play, and the proper 
ventilation, warming, and artificial lighting of the room 
require careful attention. 



T2 



276 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



Artificial Lighting. 

The most commonly employed method of obtaining 1 
an artificial illumination is the combustion of inflam- 
mable vapours producing- a flame. Coal gas, petro- 
leum and colza oils, and candles, are well known 
examples of this form of illumination. In the electric 
light, on the other hand, there is no combustion, or only 
to a trifling extent ; but light is emitted from a sub- 
stance raised to a high temperature and a state of in- 
candescence by the passage through it of an electric 
current. 

The inflammable gases and vapours are chiefly com- 
pounds of carbon and hydrogen, without oxygen in 
coal gas and vaporised petroleum oils, marsh gas, ole- 
fiant gas, acetylene, naphthalene, &c., and combined 
with oxygen in colza oil. 

When these inflammable vapours are heated to a 
sufficient temperature, the hydrogen combines with 
oxygen to form water vapour, and an intensely hot 
flame without luminosity is produced ; the carbon par- 
ticles, which are liberated in a state of very fine sub- 
division, are rendered incandescent by the heat of the 
hydrogen flame, and they combine with oxygen to form 
CO 2 and traces of CO. The luminosity, which is situ- 
ated in the outer portion of the flame, is due to the 
incandescent carbon, whilst the inner portion the hy- 
drogen flame is almost non-luminous. The products 
of combustion are chiefly water vapour and carbonic 
acid. The light is very deficient in the blue and violet 
rays of the solar spectrum, and has therefore a yellow 
or orange colour. Hence the true colours of objects 
illuminated by a flame are not perceptible. 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 277 

Coal gas. The principal illuminant of coal gas is 
heavy carburetted hydrogen or olefiant gas, C 2 H 4 . 
There are also small quantities of other hydrocarbons 
richer in carbon, with great illuminating powers; but 
these are only gaseous at high temperatures, and are 
liable to deposit as liquids and solids in gas pipes. 

Coal gas illumination was a great advance on the 
candle illumination of a former period, but it has cer- 
tain drawbacks. There is the danger of escape of gas 
from mains and pipes into the houses, forming, if the es- 
cape is large, explosive mixtures with the oxygen of the 
air; or if small, creating a serious pollution of the at- 
mosphere. The products of combustion, the carbonic 
acid and sulphurous acid from the sulphur compounds 
in coal gas, are injurious to health, and destructive to 
books, furniture, and pictures indoors, and to building 
stones and mortar out-of-doors. The combustion also 
heats the air and dries it ; for although watery vapour 
is one of the products, the relative humidity at the 
higher temperature is less. Finally, unless the supply 
of gas and air to the flame are carefully regulated, the 
gas is wasted, the light is lessened, and unconsumed 
particles of carbon are given off which deposit as soot 
on the nearest cold surfaces. 

The burners in common use are (i) the fish-tail or 
union-jet, which has a flat steatite top, slightly depressed 
in the centre, through which two small holes are bored 
in directions inclining towards one another from below 
up. The two streams of gas meet and produce the flat 
flame usually seen. (2) The batwing has a hemispherical 
steatite top, through which a vertical slit is cut for the 
gas to issue. The flame is flat and semicircular. The 
flames from these two burners require no chimneys, 
but are usually enclosed in globes to soften the light. 



278 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

(3) The Argand burner is a small ring- or cylinder 
pierced at the top with fine holes for the issue of the 
gas. The flame is a hollow cylinder, and the air has 
free access both to its interior and exterior. The flame 
must be enclosed in a chimney, in order that the supply 
of air to it may be regulated. 

The Argand burner has been improved by Silber, 
Sugg-, and other manufacturers. These improvements 
are directed, first, to cause the issue of the gas from the 
burner at the lowest possible velocity, and secondly to 
divide and regulate the air supply both to the outside 
and inside of the flame, and to direct a part of it to the 
higher portions of the flame where perfect oxidation of 
the carbon is most required. These improved Argands 
give a far better and steadier light than the flat-flame 
burners, for the same consumption of gas. 

There are several ventilating burners which remove the 
products of combustion of the flame through a flue to 
the external air. The sunlight burner used in theatres, 
and the globe light also serve to remove the heated and 
vitiated air from the top of the room or hall. 

In the regenerative gas burner of Siemens, the air and 
gas, previous to their union, are heated in chambers 
surrounding- the flue, by the waste heat of the combus- 
tion. The flame, which is in the form of a hollow 
cylinder like the Argand flame, burns around a short 
tube of porcelain. This tube is the commencement of 
the flue, and the flame, owing- to the draught, turns over 
the top of it, and the products of combustion pass, in the 
flue, through the centre of the regenerative chamber, 
imparting their heat to the chambers containing- g-as 
and air. The flue finally opens into the external air. 
This form of burner is very useful where a powerful 
light is required as in streets, squares, halls, and public 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 279 

buildings. The smaller sizes Jo not give equally good 
results. 

The Welsbach incandescent gas burner is a recent inven- 
tion, which promises to have a very extended use. It 
consists of a Bunsen burner, with a cap (mantle) of 
asbestos gauze material rendered non-inflammable by 
chemical treatment with sulphate of Zirconium, sus- 
pended in the non-luminous flame; the flame although 
non-luminous is intensely hot, and the gauze mantle 
becomes incandescent and gives a brilliant light, far 
whiter than the ordinary gas flame. The flame should 
be enclosed in a chimney. The illuminant power is 
very high for gas consumed, and the heat given off is 
far less than with an ordinary gas flame burning the 
same volume. If such burners came into general use, 
a cheap form of gas containing no illuminants, such as 
water gas, could be supplied; for heat and not light 
are required in the flame. The cheap gas would also 
lead to a more general adoption of gas heating and 
gas cooking, and to the partial solution of the smoke 
question. 

In the albo-carbon light, the vapour of naphthaline is 
burnt in the coal gas, and a brilliant white light is pro- 
duced. The naphthaline, which is solid at ordinary 
temperatures, is placed in a reservoir connected with 
the gas burner, and this reservoir must be heated by a 
small gas jet or by strips of metal extending from the 
flame. The vapour of naphthaline must not be allowed 
to escape into the air, as its odour is most offensive. 

One cause of waste and imperfect combustion with 
flat flame burners which are more largely used still 
than any of the improved forms is the constant altera- 
tions in pressure in the gas pipes and mains. At one 
period of the day the pressure may be less than one 



28O HYQIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

inch of water, whilst at another it may be three inches 
or more. Consequently the flat flame, which is steadily 
burning under the low pressure, at the high pressure is 
flaring and singing; more gas is issuing from the 
burner than can be perfectly burnt, and unconsumed 
carbon is given off from the flame to pollute the air and 
blacken everything around. 

To control these variations in pressure, gas governors 
or regulators are employed. In the larger form, the 
governor is fixed close to the meter, and controls the 
pressure throughout the house pipes; whilst a small 
form is made as a part of each individual burner. The 
best kinds of governor act automatically ; by the action 
of valves an increased pressure narrows the lumen of 
the channel through which gas passes, and a diminished 
pressure widens it. Single burner governors are also 
found to answer very well. 

Petroleum oils. By the distillation of crude petroleum 
oil obtained from wells and borings, an oil suitable for 
burning in lamps commonly called crystal oil or 
kerosene is obtained. In the distillation, a volatile 
spirit, benzoline, and the heavy oils, some of which are 
solid from containing paraffin, are also obtained, and 
are separated from the lamp oil. 

Lamp oil contains the hydro-carbons previously men- 
tioned, and gives off an inflammable vapour which at a 
certain temperature takes fire. This temperature varies 
for different specimens of oil, and is called the "flashing 
point." By act of Parliament the flashing point of 
petroleum oils sold in this country, must be not less than 
73 F., when determined by the " close cup " test (see 
Appendix). 

Owing to improvements in lamps, and to the prohibi- 
tion of the sale of highly inflammable oils, the danger 



WARMING AND LIGHTING. 28l 

of explosion is now very slight. As regards lamps, 
explosion may occur when, from any cause, the vapour 
over the oil in the reservoir is lighted by a spark, e.g., 
when the wick is extinguished by blowing over the 
chimney, and is then depressed into the reservoir in a 
smouldering condition. But the best Duplex lamps 
(the Defries and other safety lamps) are now sold with 
extinguishers, and with an ingenious arrangement by 
which, if the lamp is overturned, the flame is immediately 
extinguished. 

Colza oil does not give off any inflammable vapour, 
but it is much dearer than kerosene, and the illuminating 
power is less. Colza oil lamps require more care in 
trimming than kerosene lamps. 

The relative costs of candles, kerosene, colza, and 
coal gas, to produce the same illuminating effect, is seen 
from the following figures. To give a uniform light of 
2O standard sperm candles for 100 hours, the candles 
would cost 4 5-y. 9^. ; colza oil burned in moderator 
lamps with Silber's burner, would cost $s. yd. ; petroleum 
oil burned in Silber burners would cost 2J. ; and coal 
gas burned in an improved Argand would cost is. Q\d. 
with gas at 3^. $d. per 1000 cubic feet. 

Kerosene, like coal gas, gives off sulphurous acid 
when burnt, but colza oil does not. Candles, especially 
the cheaper kinds, give off much unconsumed carbon. 

Electric light. The electric light presents the follow- 
ing advantages over coal gas, oil, and candles. There 
is no consumption of oxygen, there are no products of 
combustion to pollute the air, and the heat produced is 
very slight. The light also is not yellow, but white. 
It precisely resembles solar light in being rich in the 
violet and the ultra-violet rays. Plants grow, flower, and 
* Brudenell Carter, Article on Lighting, Our Homes. 



282 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

ripen fruit, when exposed to electric light, just as they 
do in sunlight, whilst photographs can be taken as 
easily by electric light as by daylight. 

The electrical current can be produced by batteries, 
accumulators, and dynamo-machines, and is conveyed 
in copper wires to the spots where illumination is re- 
quired. 

In the arc light, which is suitable for lighting streets, 
squares, and large halls and buildings, the illumination 
is produced by the passage of the current through two 
carbon rods brought into close apposition. The re- 
sistance offered to the passage of the current across the 
space intervening between the points of the carbon rods, 
creates sufficient heat to cause the carbon points to be- 
come brilliantly incandescent. The light is extremely 
dazzling, and is productive of injurious effects on the 
eyes of those who are much exposed to its influence. 

The incandescent lamps are best suited for domestic 
use. In these the current is passed through a loop of 
filamentous carbon enclosed in a small glass globe ex- 
hausted of air, or filled with some gas such as nitrogen 
which does not support combustion. The resistance 
offered by the carbon to the passage of the current, 
raises it to a white heat. 



CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 283 



CHAPTER V. 

CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 
CLIMATE. 

THE human body possesses marvellous powers of 
adaptability to the modified external conditions implied 
by changes of climate and season, and the transition 
from cold to heat, dryness to humidity, and vice versa. 
The normal temperature of the body is sustained, and 
the bodily functions are properly performed under all 
the varying conditions of climate and season to be met 
with in the habitable globe. 

In hot climates where the temperature of the air ap- 
proaches, or even exceeds at times, the temperature of 
the blood, there is little call made upon the heat pro- 
ducing powers of the body. Consequently metabolism 
is decreased ; the urea of the urine and the respiratory 
carbonic acid are lessened in amount, less food being 
required; the digestive and assimilative powers are 
lessened ; and oxygenation of the blood is diminished, 
because the number of respirations is decreased, and 
the heated air contains less oxygen in a cubic foot than 
cold air. At the same time great heat, although com- 
patible with health, is enervating ; for the perfection of 
bodily activity can only be obtained when tissue changes 
are rapid. In hot climates the skin is extremely active, 
and the secretion of sweat enormously increased. This 
means great evaporation from the surface and cooling 
of the blood, with the result that, the body temperature 
is maintained at its normal level. 



284 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Tropical climates (excluding* malaria) are unhealthy 
for Europeans, only for the reason that defective sani- 
tary arrangements, under conditions of great heat and 
moisture of air and soil, tend to produce, in an inten- 
sified degree, those pollutions of water and air by 
putrefying substances that are so destructive to health 
and life in all climates. 

The effects of cold are exactly the reverse to those of 
heat. To maintain the temperature of the body, tissue 
metamorphosis must be rapid ; food, and especially 
carbonaceous food, must be taken in large quantities ; 
oxygenation of the blood and elimination of CO 2 are 
increased ; the skin functions are reduced to a minimum, 
and but little blood reaching the surface, surface-cooling 1 
is obviated ; whilst the rapid tissue changes permit of 
great bodily and mental activity being shown. 

Great humidity of the air causes lessened evaporation 
from the lungs and skin. For the air being- saturated, 
or nearly so, with moisture, has little drying- power, and 
the water from the skin and lungs is with difficulty 
evaporated. The evaporation of water, by which much 
heat is rendered latent, is one of the chief sources of 
cooling of the body. Consequently, when air is hot and 
very moist, the humidity tends to increase the effects of 
the heat; the blood is with difficulty kept at its proper 
temperature; and all the disagreeable results of the 
high temperature are intensified. 

When the air is very dry, and especially when it is 
also warm, so that its capacity for taking- up moisture is 
very great, the evaporation from skin and lungs is very 
great. In chronic lung- diseases such as bronchitis, 
emphysema, and some cases of phthisis with much con- 
gestion or bronchitis, dryness of the atmosphere causes 
cough and irritation, no doubt from the increased 



CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 285 

evaporation thrown on the lungs. The warm, equable, 
and fairly moist climates are best suited for the treat- 
ment of these complaints. 

For healthy people in temperate climates, the plea- 
santest degree of humidity is about 75 per cent, of satu- 
ration (Relative humidity 75). 

The effect of movement of air (winds) on evaporation 
is very great. In cold weather a chilly wind, if dry, 
increases the evaporation, and also lowers the tempera- 
ture of the body by the impact of its cold particles, 
which absorb heat from the body, and then pass away 
to be replaced by more cold air. The skin becomes 
dry and chapped, and the lungs are irritated. In hot 
climates a dry, hot wind increases the evaporation 
enormously. 

At high altitudes the air is rarefied, and the pressure 
of the atmosphere is diminished. The other conditions 
met with in mountain climates, as contrasted with those 
of plains, are: (i) greater movement of air strong 
winds are very prevalent; (2) lessened humidity; (3) 
increased sunlight; (4) great freedom of the air from 
dust mineral and organic (bacteria, fungi, and spores); 
(5) a large amount of ozone in the air; (6) a lowered 
temperature generally ; but as the soil is rapidly heated 
by the sun, the days, in summer, may be warm, whilst 
the rapid radiation of heat, as soon as the sun sets, 
causes sudden cooling and a very low temperature at 
night. It is thus seen that the general characteristics of 
mountain climates are a cold, pure, dry, and rarefied air, 
often in rapid movement, with a large amount of light. 
The weight of oxygen in a cubic foot of air is diminished 
in proportion to the diminution of pressure ; thus if the 
barometer stands at 20 inches, the 130-4 grains of 
oxygen, present in a cubic foot of dry air at 30 inches of 



286 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

mercury and 32 F., is reduced to fg of 130-4 = 86-9 
grains only. 

Although the weight of oxygen in a cubic foot of air 
is decreased at high altitudes, the oxygenation of the 
blood is increased, for the respirations are more fre- 
quent and have greater depth ; and after a short period 
of residence the capacity of the chest is found to be 
increased in all its measurements, together with in- 
creased power of expansion and contraction. The 
action of the heart is also increased, and tissue change 
is stimulated by the low temperature and the dryness of 
the air, leading to improved digestion, assimilation, and 
excretion, with increased bodily activity. 

These effects of residence at a high altitude, together 
with the freedom of the air from dust and germs, and 
its impregnation with ozone, have led to the treatment 
of cases of phthisis at mountain resorts, with often the 
most beneficial results. The cases most benefitted are 
those in an early stage without much congestion or 
bronchitis, which might be aggravated by the cold, dry 
air. It is advisable that spots should be chosen which 
are sheltered from cold winds ; and those popular re- 
sorts, where many phthisical persons are crowded to- 
gether in hotels and boarding houses, should be avoided. 
As much time as possible should be spent in the open air. 

A mountainous district in proximity to the sea is liable 
to excessive rainfall. The moist currents of air blowing 
in from the sea are chilled by striking against the moun- 
tain chain; clouds are formed, and some of the moisture, 
no longer able to be held as invisible vapour, on account 
of the lower temperature, is deposited as rain, snow, or 
sleet, according to the temperature and season of the 
year. If the mountains are in the centre of a continent 
far removed from the sea, the rainfall may not be great. 



.CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 287 

The excess of moisture in the ocean currents will already 
have been deposited before reaching the hills; and in 
these situations a mountain climate, without the draw- 
back of excessive rainfall, may be obtained suitable for 
the requirements of consumptives and invalids. 

Increased pressure of the atmosphere produces effects 
very much of an opposite nature to those just consi- 
dered. At a pressure between i and 2 atmospheres, 
the circulation of the blood is slowed, the respirations are 
less frequent, and there is pain and ringing- in the ears. 
It is found, however, that the system quickly accustoms 
itself to increased atmospheric pressure, and that men 
can work vigorously in diving bells, in the compressed 
air-chambers necessary to lay the foundations of bridges 
and aqueducts under water, and in the very deepest 
mines. 

The climate of small islands and of places on the 
seashore, differs from that in the interior of continents 
chiefly in its greater equability. The variations in tem- 
perature between day and night, and between summer 
and winter, are much less marked, whilst the winds 
blowing in from the sea bring a moist, but pure air, 
rich in ozone and free from dust and germs. The 
specific heat of water is far greater than that of the 
solid rocks composing the earth's crust. Hence water 
heats slowly, but parts with its heat slowly. The land 
heats quickly and radiates quickly. In winter the ocean 
acts as a storehouse for the heat absorbed from the 
summer sun, and slowly parts with it to warm the 
superincumbent air. In summer the land is heated by 
the sun more rapidly than the water, consequently the 
air over the land is heated and rises, and a cool breeze 
blows in from the sea during the day. During the 
night, the earth is rapidly cooled by radiation if the sky 



288 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

is clear ; the air over the sea is then warmer than the 
air over the land, it rises, and a land breeze sets out to 
sea. On a summer's day at the seashore the air is 
constantly in motion, and is cool and moist; whilst in 
the interior it may be insufferably hot, close, and dry. 

Ocean climates are of the greatest benefit to certain 
cases of lung- disease (bronchitis, emphysema, congestive 
phthisis) where a pure air free from dust, but moist and 
of equable temperature is desired. Ocean voyages 
should be recommended to phthisical patients with 
extreme caution. The confinement and overcrowding 
in cabins and state-rooms, the want of exercise and the 
costive habit thus produced, tending to excite haemo- 
ptysis, are all grave disadvantages, and may counteract 
any benefit to be derived from the sea air. 

The effect of vegetation on climate must not be lost 
sight of. In cold climates, trees and shrubs obstruct 
the passage of the sun's rays to the soil, which is there- 
fore liable to be cold and moist ; but in hot climates the 
evaporation of water from the leaves tends to dry the 
soil, whilst the temperature of the air is lowered, and 
the ground is sheltered from the direct rays of the sun 
and kept cool. In very dense forests the air is gene- 
rally stagnant, and if there is much moist and decaying 
vegetation, all the conditions productive of malaria are 
present in a high degree. Probably in all climates a 
due admixture of herbage, shrubs, and trees, without 
dense undergrowth, but admitting the passage of free 
currents of air in every direction is the most conducive 
to health. Large tracts of country destitute of trees 
and vegetation, are, in hot climates, unbearably warm 
and dry, and in cold climates are exposed to every 
chilling wind and to every extreme of temperature 
according to the season of the year. In such districts, 



CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 289 

too, rainfall is often absent or very slight in amount 
the attractive influence exerted by trees and vegetation 
generally upon water-charged clouds being wanting. 



METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 
Barometer. 

In the standard mercurial barometer, the scale for 
reading the height of the column of mercury is divided 
into inches, tenths and half-tenths (^) of inches. To 
obtain more accurate readings than the scale alone 
allows, a sliding scale or vernier is attached. The 
vernier scale is divided into 25 equal parts, which are 
equal to 24 half-tenth divisions on the barometer scale. 
Consequently each division on the vernier is less than 
that on the barometer scale by ^i n (== CTOO2) of an inch. 
For each division on the scale is 0*05 inch, and each 
division on the vernier is 0^048 inch. 

To read the standard barometer, note the temperature 
by the attached thermometer, adjust the ivory point in 
the cistern so that it just touches the surface of the mer- 
cury, and read off on the barometer scale the division 
immediately below the top of the column of mercury. 
Then adjust the vernier (fig. 39) so that its lowest line 
is level with the top of the column of mercury, and count 
the number of divisions from below up until a line on 
the vernier exactly corresponds with one on the scale. 
Multiply the number of divisions on the vernier so 
obtained by 0-002, and add the result to the already 
observed height on the barometer scale. Corrections 
must then be made for temperature above 32 F. for 
mercury like all other metals expands with a rise in 

u 



2QO 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



# 







9 
'8 

7 
'6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
30 

9 
'8 

7 
6 
5 
'4 
3 
'2 
' 
29 





































5 
















~4 _ 























3_ 
j^~ 
T~ 



































- 



















FIG. 39. Diagram of Barometer Scale and Vernier. A. Scale. 
B. Vernier. 



CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 2QI 

temperature and also for height above sea level. The 
mercury falls about one- thousandth of an inch for every 
foot above sea level. 



Wet and Dry Bulb Thermometer. 

The wet bulb is kept moist by being* covered with 
muslin, one end of which dips into a small vessel of 
water, so that moisture ascends by capillary attraction. 
The evaporation of moisture from the wet bulb, which 
takes place so long as the surrounding air is not satu- 
rated, causes loss of heat, and the wet bulb reads lower 
than the dry. 

From the readings of the dry and wet bulbs can be 
ascertained : the relative humidity of the air, i.e., the 
amount of moisture present in the air, expressed as a 
percentage of the amount just necessary to cause satu- 
ration; the dew point, i.e., the temperature at which the 
amount of moisture actually present in the air would 
cause saturation ; and the weight of vapour in a cubic 
foot of air, from which can be deduced the additional 
weight of vapour necessary to cause saturation, or the 
drying power of the air. 

The relative humidity is found from tables. The 
greater the difference between the dry and wet bulbs, 
the lower is the relative humidity. If the dry and wet 
bulbs record the same temperature, the air is completely 
saturated with moisture, aud this temperature is also 
the dew point. 

The dew point can be determined by the equation ; 
dew point = T d (T d T W ) x F ; where T d is the 
dry bulb temperature, T W the wet bulb temperature, 
and F the factor opposite the dry bulb temperature 
found in Glaisher's Tables. 

U 2 



202 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



The weight of vapour of water which a cubic foot of 
dry air can take up, until it is saturated, varies with the 
temperature. The higher the temperature ths larger 
is the amount of vapour required, as the following table 
shows. 

Grains of vapour to saturate a cubic foot of dry air 
(approximate). 



30 F. 2 grains 


66 F. 7 grains 


80 F. ii grains 


41 F. 3 


70 F. 8 


83 F. 12 


49 F. 4 ,, 


74 F. 9 


86 F. 13 


56 F. 5 


77 F. 10 


88 F. 14 


61 F. 6 







If the relative humidity at 61 F. is 70, the amount of 
vapour in a cubic foot is 70 per cent, of saturation, or 
G of 6 = 4-2 grains; and the drying power of a cubic 
foot of the air is 6 4-2 r8 grains. 



Rain Gauge. 

This instrument consists of a cylindrical vessel sup- 
porting at its top a circular funnel which dips into a 
bottle (the rain receiver) contained in the cylinder. The 
gauge must be sunk in the ground a little way, and the 
top rim of the funnel must be perfectly horizontal. A 
measuring glass, graduated according to the area of 
the funnel, so as to indicate the fall of rain as decimals 
of an inch is required. The area of the top of the 
circular funnel (the receiving surface for the rain) is 
usually 50 square inches. To graduate the measuring 



CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 2Q3 

glass for a funnel of this area, 50 cubic inches of water 
are poured into it, and a mark placed at the level the 
fluid stands at. The glass below is then divided into 
100 equal parts, so that each division indicates a fall 
ofo-oi inch of rain. The rain gauge must be fixed in 
an open place away from trees, walls, and houses. 



Thermometers. 

The shade maximum thermometer is a mercurial 
instrument, and is made self-registering by a narrowing 
of the tube near the bulb, which breaks the column of 
mercury when this has begun to contract after its great- 
est expansion. 

The shade minimum thermometer is an alcohol 
instrument, with an index in the alcohol, which moves 
with the spirit on contraction but'not on expansion, and 
is consequently left at the lowest degree of temperature, 
which it serves to register. 

These thermometers should be placed horizontally in 
the shade, 4 feet above the ground, and away from 
buildings or other sources of radiation. 

The solar radiation thermometer is a mercurial maxi- 
mum self-registering instrument, with a blackened bulb. 
It is placed in a glass case from which air is exhausted. 
This instrument is placed four feet above the ground 
and is directly exposed to the sun's rays. 

Other instruments which may be found useful are : 
a terrestrial radiation thermometer, which is merely a 
minimum shade thermometer placed close to the ground 
on grass; a sunshine recorder, a little instrument by 
which the rays of the sun are concentrated onto sensi- 
tive photographic paper revolved by clockwork ; and a 



2Q4 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

self- registering- weather-cock and wind-gauge (Osier's 
anemometer). 

The presence of ozone, which is believed to be oxygen 
in an allotropic form, with the chemical formula O 2 O, 
may be determined by means of paper saturated with 
starch and iodide of potassium. The ozone liberates 
the iodine, which turns blue with the starch. Several 
fallacies are likely to arise from these determinations. 
In the first place nitrous acid, occasionally present in 
the air after thunderstorms, liberates the iodine as well 
as ozone, and in the second place the ozone may, instead 
of setting free iodine, form iodozone and iodate of potas- 
sium which produce no blue colour with starch. Ozone 
exerts a very powerful oxidising action on organic 
matters. When manufactured artificially, it has a very 
irritating effect on the lungs and bronchi. It is usually 
absent from the air of towns and houses. 

The weight of a cubic foot of dry air at 32 F. and 30 
inches of mercury is 566-85 grains. As air expands ^ T 
of its volume for every degree rise Fahrenheit, the volume 
at 60 F. for instance, is I + J T x (60 32) = 1-057 
cubic feet. The weight is inversely as volume, conse- 
quently if x is the weight of a cubic foot of dry air at 



6o F., _^_ = ; or* = -5^55 = 5s6 . 28 

566-85 1-057' 1-057 

grains. 

The weight of a cubic foot of water vapour at 60 F. 
is 577 grains. Therefore the added weights of a cubic 
foot of dry air at 60, and of a cubic foot of vapour at 60 
15536-28 + 5-77 542-05 grains. But dry air expands 
on taking up moisture, and the actual weight of a cubic 
foot of saturated air at 60 is 532-84 grains, or 3-44 
grains less than the weight of the same volume of dry air. 
This fact explains the fall of the barometer, when the 



CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY. 2Q5 

moisture in the air is increasing-, and a fall of rain is 
imminent. The weight of a cubic foot of air is propor- 
tional to the height of the barometer. 

The percentage of nitrogen to oxygen in the air is by 
volume nearly 79 to 21, but by weight it is 77 to 23. 
From these figures the very important determinations of 
the weight of oxygen in a cubic foot of air under varying 
conditions of pressure, temperature, and humidity can be 
made. It is only necessary to find the weight in grains 
of a cubic foot of the air under the observed conditions 
of temperature, humidity, and barometrical pressure, 
and then -f^ of this weight is oxygen. It is hardly 
necessary to dilate on the physiological and pathologi- 
cal importance of a knowledge of the weight of oxygen 
in each cubic foot of air respired under different climato- 
logical conditions. 



2Q6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



CHAPTER VI. 

SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 

THE health of a locality is intimately connected with the 
nature of the soil on which the houses are built. It is 
generally believed that the most porous soils the 
gravels and sands are the healthiest because they are 
the driest, and this view is in the main correct. It will 
be advisable, however, to consider in some detail the 
conditions which affect the healthiness of the different 
soils, and subsequently to describe the precautions that 
must be taken when houses are being built, to obviate 
such conditions as are likely to be injurious. 

The porous or permeable soils the loose sands and 
gravels, the sandstones and chalks are capable of 
holding considerable volumes of air or water. Even 
the impermeable rocks the granites and metamorphic 
rooks, the dense clays and limestones are not wholly 
unabsorbent, but comparatively speaking they may be 
looked upon as impermeable. Between these and the 
porous sands and gravels are all stages of gradation. 
The surface soils which usually lie upon the denser 
kinds of rocks, of which they are to a considerable 
extent the weathered fragments, are always more or less 
porous. The interstices or interspaces between the 
particles of the porous soils are necessarily occupied 
by air (ground air), or by water (ground water). The 
ground water is derived from the rain which falls upon 
the surface of the earth, part of which percolates until 



SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 2Q7 

it reaches a stratum of rock sufficiently dense to prevent 
its penetrating- any further. Above the level of the 
subterranean water the interstices of the soil are filled 
with air. 

The depth at which water will be reached in any soil 
depends on a variety of circumstances the elevation 
above the surrounding- country, the depth of the imper- 
meable stratum from the surface, and the ease with 
which the underground water flows towards its natural 
outlet in spring-, river, or sea. In the low-lying- plains 
and valleys, the underground water is not, as a rule, far 
from the surface of the earth. Its level is not constant, 
as we have seen in the chapter on Water (p. 21), but is 
always changing-. After heavy rainfall the level may 
rise; and there is usually a periodic rise, commencing 
in the late autumn, and a corresponding- fall in the 
spring, due, as explained before, to the increased perco- 
lation of the rainfall in the colder months of the year, 
and its cessation in the warmer. 

The movements of the ground water cause corre- 
sponding- movements in the ground air which lies above 
it. As the ground water rises; it occupies the space 
formerly occupied by the ground air, and the latter is 
slowly expelled from the surface of the earth ; as the 
ground water sinks, air is sucked in to occupy its place, 
to be again expelled when the water rises. There are 
other factors influencing the movements of the ground 
air which have no effect on those of the ground water. 
The principal of these are, alterations in barometrical 
pressure, sudden variations in temperature, and the 
action of the wind forcing air into the strata which are 
opposed to its path. It is thus seen that the surface 
layers of the earth act as a sort of lung, slowly taking , 
air in and slowly expelling it again. 



2Q8 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

This action is no doubt greatly increased in the small 
surface of ground covered by a house. In winter, the 
heat of the building 1 and the aspirating action of fires 
must tend to draw air in large volumes through the 
surface of the soil, unless the site is covered with an 
impenetrable layer of asphalte or cement concrete. 
The ground air is generally moist and always impure. 
The amount of moisture depends on the proximity of 
the ground water to the surface of the soil ; if but a few 
feet from the surface, the ground air is saturated with 
moisture; but if at great depths the moisture is not 
excessive. The ground near the surface of the earth in 
most parts of the world is damp, even after the most 
prolonged drought, owing to capillary attraction and 
evaporation from the surface of the ground water, and 
to the alternate risings and fallings in its level. 

The impurity of the ground air is due to the decompo- 
sition of the various organic matters which are washed 
into the soil by the rain, or which are naturally present 
in some soils (alluvial and marshy). These latter are 
usually of vegetable origin. The impurity of the 
ground air in virgin, or natural soils, is shown by the 
great diminution in oxygen and the enormous increase 
in carbonic acid which characterised the samples that 
have been examined. In the neighbourhood of houses, 
however, the foulness of the ground air is due to animal 
contaminations chiefly, and these often of the most 
dangerous description. Leaking cesspools, sewers, and 
drains allow animal filth and possibly infected excretions 
to pollute the water and air in the soil ; graveyards and 
cemeteries permit the exhalations from decomposing 
animal bodies to exercise a similar pollution ; whilst the 
organic effluvia arising from made soils soils formed of 
house refuse and dry rubbish too often seriously 



SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 2QQ 

imperil the health of the inmates of the houses built over 
them. 

The organic matters, whether of vegetable or animal 
origin, are decomposed in the soil chiefly by bacterial 
organisms. These organisms grow in the presence of 
such food material, breaking it up into simpler com- 
binations carbonic acid, ammonia, nitrates, and nitrites, 
and thus, by the processes of fermentation and putre- 
faction, exert a purifying action, and at the same time 
convert the complex organic bodies into substances best 
fitted to be assimilated by the growing vegetation on the 
surface of the soil. The presence of oxygen, warmth, 
and moisture are essential to the proper carrying out of 
these fermentative processes. Oxygen is present in the 
ground air, moisture is derived from the ground water, 
and the temperature of the soil is usually sufficient, 
except during prolonged frosts or in very cold climates. 
The nitrifying action of the bacterial organisms is an 
especially important one, and has been more fully 
alluded to in a previous chapter (p. 183). Nitrate of 
potassium or saltpetre is still largely obtained from the . 
soil around habitations in tropical countries. 

It is thus seen that surface soil acts as a vast natural 
laboratory for the purification and utilisation of effete 
animal and vegetable matters. Even in the purest vir- 
gin soils the ground is impure, and in the polluted soils 
of towns and villages it is likely to be contaminated 
with noxious effluvia from decomposing animal filth. 
Hence the importance of preventing the entrance of 
ground air into houses, which may be accomplished by 
covering the entire site over which they are built by a 
layer of cement concrete, asphalte, or other imperme- 
able substance. 

The draining of damp soils, so as to permanently 



3OO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

lower the level of the subsoil water, is also a measure 
much needed in the interests of health, but of which the 
utility is not so immediately apparent as in the case of 
the exclusion of ground air. In the first place, it is 
desirable to avoid great fluctuations in the level of the 
ground water, and this can, to a certain extent, be ac- 
complished by subsoil drainage, which at once carries 
off the water when it rises to the level at which the 
drains are laid. When the subsoil water rises, it forces 
the ground air before it and out of the soil ; not only 
this, but it causes, when it arrives within a few feet of 
the surface, a dampness of the atmospheric air by 
evaporation, and consequently a cooling of the air. 
The moisture ascends by capillary attraction into the 
walls of houses, to be subsequently evaporated from the 
surfaces of the interior walls; in this evaporation, heat 
is absorbed from surrounding objects, and the air of a 
house with damp walls is not only moist but cold. 

This condition of dampness and moisture in the site 
and air of a house is one credited by universal experi- 
ence with the production of rheumatism, catarrh, neu- 
ralgia, and all affections of a bronchial and pulmonary 
nature, and is probably a strong predisposing factor 
in the production of diphtheria outbreaks. A striking 
ing example of the relation subsisting between damp- 
ness of site and such diseases of the respiratory organs 
as measles, whooping cough, and pneumonia, is related 
by Dr. Blaxall in a report to the Local Government 
Board on the health of Swindon. 

Swindon consists of two towns old and new Swindon. 
The old town lies at an elevation of about 100 feet above 
the new town, and is situated on oolitic limestone and 
Portland sand, whilst the new town with a subsoil of 
Kimmeridge clay was formerly liable to floods, and is 



SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 3<DI 

still very damp. Although the two towns lie close to- 
gether and differ but little socially, the death-rates from 
measles, whooping cough, bronchitis, and pneumonia 
are always far higher in New Swindon with its damp 
subsoil, than in Old Swindon which is comparatively 
dry. 

The researches of Dr. Bowditch, of Boston, U.S.A., 
and of Dr. Buchanan in this country (gth and loth 
Reports, M.O.P.C., i8f-6, 1867) have conclusively shown 
that there is an intimate connection between moisture 
of soil and destructive diseases of the lungs (diseases of 
the lungs attended with destruction of lung tissue, usually 
known as phthisical, and most often tuberculous). Such 
diseases were shown by Dr. Buchanan to be much less 
fatal in certain English towns, after they had been 
sewered and the soil consequently drained, than they 
had been previous to the construction of the sewer 
works. Where the drying of the subsoil was consider- 
able, the deaths from phthisis were reduced by a third 
or even by half of what they had previously been. 

Professor Pettenkofer and other continental observers 
have sought to establish a relation between the height 
of the ground water and epidemic outbreaks of typhoid 
fever. Pettenkofer's observations were made on the 
wells of Munich ; and they tend to show that when the 
water in these wells was at its lowest level, especially 
after a rapid fall succeeding an unusually high level, 
outbreaks of the fever occurred. Munich is built on a 
porous sandy soil, at that time riddled with cesspools, of 
which the contents rapidly soaked into the surrounding- 
soil; so that it is conceivable that after heavy rainfall 
liquid cesspool filth should find its way into the wells, 
and the outbreak of typhoid fever 2 or 3 weeks after the 
specific pollution of the drinking" water might be coin- 



3O2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

cident with a fall in the ground water to its usually low 
level. 

In this country no invariable relation has been found 
to exist between the onset of typhoid fever epidemics 
and low level of ground water. Mr. Baldwin Latham 1 * 
has indeed brought forward some statistics which show 
that years of low ground water are often characterised 
by an increased zymotic mortality and high general 
death-rate. He points out that these periods of un- 
healthiness succeed periods of low ground water, and 
are in fact coincident with a renewal of percolation. 
His observations differ therefore in the most essential 
point from Pettenkofer's ; but they are, as regards 
typhoid fever, more in accordance with the observed in- 
cidence of the disease in this country. Typhoid fever 
N reaches its period of maximum intensity at the end of 
October or beginning of November in every year, as 
deduced from observations extending- over a long series 
of years; and this maximum intensity also coincides 
with the period of lowest ground water, or with the 
commencement of a rise following increased percolation 
of rain. 

In considering- this subject it must not be forgotten 
that there are other factors such as temperature, condi- 
tion of the soil as regards moisture and freedom from 
pollution, &c., which may have a more direct bearing- 
on health conditions than the level of the ground water. 
Mr. Baldwin Latham is not generally supported in his 
assumption that a high level of ground water is more 
conducive to health than a low level, but he is no doubt 
right in his opinion that a permanent level is better than 
a fluctuating one, although he does not hold the general 
belief that a permanently low level is better than a 
* Transactions of the Sanitary Institute, 1886-87, vo1 - viii - 



SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 303 

permanently high level. The right view appears to be 
that fluctuations of level are of but little consequence in 
themselves, but that by favouring pollution of water in 
wells, and by forcing impure ground air into houses, 
they exercise a most considerable influence on health. 

Pettenkofer has expressed similar views with regard 
to cholera outbreaks ; but it cannot be said at present 
that the facts, on which these views are founded, warrant 
more than a recognition of the occasional occurrence 
of coincidence of cholera outbreaks with a low state of 
the ground water. 

The connection between malaria and damp marshy 
soils is more firmly established. The presence of much 
vegetable debris in the soil, together with sufficient mois- 
ture and a warm temperature, are the usual factors 
determining the development of the malarial agent, and 
the onset of ague and intermittent fevers. In many in-, 
stances, malarious districts have been rendered healthy 
by subsoil drainage, or by tree-planting. In hot cli- 
mates, trees and vegetation abstract large quantities 
of water from the soil, which is evaporated from their 
green leaves. It has been calculated that an oak tree 
evaporates 8J times the rainfall, whilst the Eucalyptus 
globulus absorbs and evaporates 1 1 times the rainfall 
over the area it covers. The latter shrub has been 
extensively planted in many malarious districts, and 
has had considerable effect in rendering them more 
healthy. The soil has been dried by permanently 
lowering the level of the subsoil water ; and the 
moisture factor being withdrawn, the malarial agents 
(organisms) are no longer provided with an environ- 
ment favourable to the propagation of paroxysmal 
fevers. It must be remembered also that moisture 
favours decomposition of putrefiable material ; there- 



304 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

fore a dry soil is cleaner, and the ground air is purer, 
than in a damp one. 

In very malarious districts it is advisable that houses 
should be raised above the ground on arches open to 
the air; or in the case of wooden houses on piles. 
Moist ground around the site of the house should be 
drained and filled in, and the surface paved or covered 
with grass kept closely cut. Jungle and excessive vege- 
tation should be cleared away and burnt. Where 
malarious currents of air drift across from marshes, the 
windows of the houses should open on the opposite side 
to the marshy district, and walls or belts of trees 
should be interposed to break and disperse the drifting 
currents. 

From the above remarks it will be seen that in the 
choice of a site for a house, a pure, dry, and porous soil 
should be chosen ; if possible, in an elevated position 
and on a gentle slope favouring natural drainage both 
on the surface and in the subsoil. In cold and tem- 
perate climates sands and gravels are the healthiest, 
because the warmest (most absorbent of heat) and 
driest. Clayey soils are cold, because little absorbent 
of heat, and they are also damp from the retention of 
moisture, and therefore not so healthy as the more per- 
meable soils. Chalk is usually dry, but being little 
absorbent of heat, is cold. In hot climates sands are 
excessively hot, unless covered with herbage, which 
protects from the sun's rays, and cools the air by eva- 
poration of moisture. 

In towns, made soils which are often mere excava- 
tions made for the purpose of removing the virgin 
gravel, and subsequently filled in with all sorts of 
rubbish and dust-bin refuse should be avoided. If 
the soil is damp, the entire site below the foundations 



SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 305 

should be drained by laying unglazed agricultural pipes 
in trenches filled in above with pebbly gravel. This 
allows free percolation of water into the pipes, through 
the porous material of which they are constructed and 
between their ends, which are laid in apposition, but 
not jointed. These subsoil drains should not be con- 
nected with any soil-drain, sewer, or cesspool, but 
should discharge if possible into a ditch or stream. 

To prevent the entrance of ground air, the entire site 
of the house, within the external walls, should be cov- 
ered with a layer of cement concrete, six inches thick, 
rammed solid ; and the surface thus formed should be 
grouted over with cement. In large town houses with 
basement floors below the street level, the cemented 
surface when asphalted or paved may conveniently form 
the finished flooring. Being free from cracks and 
crevices it can afford no lodgment for cock-roaches or 
other vermin, which so frequently infest the lower 
storeys. 

In houses without cellars, more especially where the 
site is not concreted over, the lower floors should be 
raised two feet above the surface of the ground, and 
this space should be well ventilated through air-bricks 
in the external walls. 

A wall built of ordinary building bricks and mortar 
is very porous and capable of absorbing large quanti- 
ties of water. Each brick can hold about 16 ozs. of 
water. 

To obviate damp from the ground rising in the walls, 
a horizontal damp-proof course of slates bedded in 
cement, a half-inch layer of asphalte, or slabs of per- 
forated glazed stoneware, should be inserted in the 
wall slightly above the level of the ground adjoining 
(fig. 40). The stoneware slabs answer a double pur- 



306 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



pose : they are not only damp proof, but the perfora- 
tions afford an air passage through the wall, and 
ventilate the space under the flooring a very neces- 
sary precaution to prevent dry rot in timbers and joists. 
The external house walls must be separated from the 
ground by an "open" area extending upwards from the 
footings or foundation. Where space will not admit of 
an open area, a "dry" area should be formed (fig: 40). 




FIG. 40. House-foundation with damp-proof course in wall and 
dry area. 

It is merely an area a few inches wide, to .prevent the 
moist earth coming in contact with the wall, and is 
covered at the top ; or a double wall may be formed 
below the ground level so as to enclose a vertical air 
space. This arrangement necessitates two damp-proof 
courses; the lower just above the footings, and the 
upper across the outer portion of the double wall above 
the ground level. These arrangements are necessary 
to prevent damp cellars and basements. 

In very exposed situations the outer walls of houses 



SOILS AND BUILDING SITES. 307 

are liable to become damp from driving" rain. The 
usual remedies are the covering- of the walls with slates 
or glazed tiles, or coating the brickwork with Portland 
cement which, being 1 impervious to moisture, is found to 
answer extremely well. 

Another common cause of damp walls is defective ! 
gutters to the roof, or broken or otherwise damaged 
rain water pipes. In both these cases water drips down 
the walls, and soaking through the bricks and mortar 
causes a permanent dampness and moisture in the rooms 
within. A further source of damp in the walls of base- 
ments or ground floor rooms, is the absence of proper 
paving of the ground around the house, where damp- 
proof courses or open areas do not exist, as is the case 
in most artizans and labourers dwellings in large 
towns. The rain, or the water from a leaky tap, soaks 
into the ground unless it is paved and sloped to a drain 
inlet, and in time saturates the brickwork. In most 
towns the local authorities now compel house owners 
to pave the yards and areas around working class 
dwellings. 

* For further information on these and other points in the con- 
struction of houses the article on " Architecture " by P. G. Smith, 
F.R.I. B. A., and K. D. Young, F.R.I. B.A., in Our Homes, may be 
consulted. 



y 2 



308 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



CHAPTER VII. 

FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 
FOOD. 

ALL the various food substances, or proximate consti- 
tuents of food, may be classified broadly under two 
heads as nitrogenous or non-nitrogenous. 

The albuminates, which are substances allied in 
chemical constitution to albumen, form a large propor- 
tion of the nitrogenous food substances ; whilst thjgjiion- 
nitrogenous substances consist of five well-defined 
classes, the fats, carbo-hydrates, the vegetable acids, the 
mineral salts, and water. 



Nitrogenous. 



Non-Nitrogenous. 





FATS. 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES. 


VEGE- 
TABLE 
ACIDS. 


SALTS. 


WATER. 




Albumen 


Olein 


Starch 


Oxalic 


Sodium chloride 






Fibrin 


Stearin 


Dextrin 


Tartaric 


Potassium chloride 




,/l 

|||' 


Syntonin 
Myosin 
Globulin 
Casein 


Palmitin 
Margarin 
Butyrin 


Cane-sugar 
Grape-sugar 
Lactose or 
Milk-sugar 


Citric 
Malic 
Acetic 
Lactic 


Potassium phosphate 
Calcium phosphate 
Magnesium phosphate 
Iron phosphate, 






^^ 








etc., etc. 




rt 1 


Gelatine 












IJ 


Ossein 












1 1 


Chondrin 












I 


Keratine 












. J Gluten 












j 1 Legumen 













o m I Kreatine 












2 I Kreatinine 












g.5 1 Karnine 












H "^ (Xanthine 













FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 309 

The purposes fulfilled by food may be defined to be 
as follows: i. To form new tissues in the process of 
growth. 2. To repair and renew the wasted tissues 
solid and fluid of the body. 3. To provide the mate- 
rial which serves as fuel to the body, and which by 
its combination with oxygen is reduced to the simpler 
forms of urea, carbonic acid, and water, thus supplying 
the sources of the animal heat and manifestations of 
energy which are essential for the maintenance of life. 

Albuminates or Proteids. The average composition of 
albumen may be taken as being somewhat as follows: 
in IOO parts nitrogen 16, carbon 54, oxygen 22, hydro- 
gen 7, sulphur i. The proportion of nitrogen to carbon 
is nearly in the ratio of 2 to 7. In the group headed by 
gelatine (see Table) the proportion of nitrogen to carbon 
is greater, and these substances are much less nutritious 
than the albuminates proper. In the process of diges- 
tion albuminates are converted into soluble peptones, 
which are highly diffusible and capable of passing 
through the inner coats of the alimentary tract into 
the blood and lymph streams. 

Nitrogenous foods are essential for the maintenance 
of animal life. All organised structures contain nitro- 
gen, and there can be no chemical change and no mani- 
festation of energy in any animal tissue from which 
nitrogen is absent. Consequently nitrogenous foods are 
required for the formation of new, and the repair and 
renewal of old tissues, and for the formation of the di- 
gestive and other fluids of the body. The nitrogenous 
tissues of the body are also the regulators of the ab- 
sorption and utilisation of oxygen, by which energy is 
manifested. Therefore, the proteid foods, which make 
and repair the tissues, also participate in this regulation 
of oxidation and energy. They are also supposed to 



3IO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

have another function under certain special conditions, 
viz., the formation of fat and the yielding of energy, 
but of this little is known. Under a diet from which 
nitrogen is withheld, the body languishes ; the functions 
are carried on at the expense of the existing tissues and 
structures ; and these undergoing no renewal, death 
must eventually result. 

The albuminates proper are of nearly equal nutritive 
value, and are therefore mutually replaceable in a diet. 
This applies both to the different members forming the 
animal albuminate class, and to the vegetable and ani- 
mal albuminates taken as two separate classes. The 
only advantage if indeed it be one at all in favour 
of animal nitrogenous food as opposed to vegetable, is 
that the former is more rapidly digested, and therefore 
more quickly replaces wasted tissue. But against this 
must be set the fact, quite recently ascertained, that 
proteid substances are split up in the processes 
of healthy digestion, either in part or whole, into the 
poisonous alkaloids Ptomaines and Leucomaines. These 
bodies are, no doubt, under conditions of normal health 
and activity disposed of in the system without detriment 
to its vital functions : but if they are produced in excess, 
or more rapidly than they can be destroyed or elimin- 
ated, as may happen after a meal of meat excessive in 
amount, they tend to accumulate in the system and may 
be the cause of that heaviness and languor so frequently 
experienced by large meat eaters, especially those of a 
dyspeptic habit. 

Whilst there is no sufficient evidence to prove that 
vegetarianism, so-called, is more conducive to health or 
longevity than a mixed diet, there can be but little 
doubt that the wealthier classes eat too largely and too 
frequently of meat. Excess of nitrogenous food causes 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 3! I 

not only an abnormal production of the poisonous al- 
kaloids, of whose potentialities for evil but little is at 
present known ; but an excess of nitrogenous waste 
accumulates in the blood, oxidation is interfered with, 
the liver, the kidneys, and the other excretory organs 
are overtaxed in their work of eliminating waste sub- 
stances which are also insufficiently elaborated, and 
gout, or liver and kidney disease result. 

Gelatine, ossein, etc., are not the nutritive equals of 
the other albuminates, and cannot replace them. Gela- 
tine is easily oxidised in the body, and appears to be of 
value in cases of acute disease, when given in the form 
of jellies, in preventing excessive tissue waste. In such 
cases the albuminates, if given, may not be digested 
or assimilated. Gelatine cannot, probably, form nitro- 
genous tissues; but it can take the place of part of the 
nitrogenous substances in the blood which undergo 
oxidation. 

The extractives, such as those contained in the juice 
of flesh, appear to act as regulators and stimulants of 
digestion and assimilation, especially when gelatine and 
allied bodies are comprised in the diet. Hence the use 
of beef-tea, which contains little beyond extractives, in 
the dietary of sickness. 

Hydrocarbons or Fats. These bodies are compounds of 
glycerine with the fatty acids, oleic, stearic, palmitic 
acid, &c. They contain no nitrogen, but are made up 
of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen ; the proportion of 
oxygen being less than sufficient to convert all the hy- 
drogen into water. The fats are unacted upon by the 
saliva and by the gastric juice, and pass through the 
stomach unchanged; but in the small intestine they are 
emulsified by the pancreatic juice and bile, and rendered 
capable of absorption by the lacteal vessels, whilst a 



312 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

small portion is saponified, i.e., split up into glycerine 
and fatty acids, the latter uniting 1 with alkalies to form 
alkaline palmitates, oleates, and stearates (soaps), which 
are directly absorbed into the blood or lacteals. 

The chief function of the fatty foods is to repair and 
renew the fatty tissues, and to yield energy and keep 
up the animal heat by oxidation into carbonic acid and 
water. The presence of the fats in food promotes the 
flow of the pancreatic juice and bile ; they thus help in 
the proper assimilation of other foods, and assist the 
excretory functions of the intestine, which are badly 
performed if bile and the other digestive fluids are not 
secreted in sufficient quantity. 

The animal fats are more easily digested and ab- 
sorbed than the vegetable, If there is excess of fat in 
a diet, it passes out unchanged in the faeces. 

Carlo-hydrates. These substances are made up of car- 
bon, hydrogen, and oxygen ; the oxygen being present 
in the exact proportion necessary to convert all the hy- 
drogen into water. In the process of digestion, starch, 
cane-sugar, dextrin, and milk-sugar, are converted into 
grape-sugar. This change is commenced in the mouth, 
during the process of mastication of the food, by the 
action of the saliva; it is not carried any further in 
the stomach, but is completed in the small intestine by 
means of the pancreatic juice. The starch (C 6 H IO O^ 
takes up a molecule of water to become grape-sugar 
(C6H I2 O 6 ), which is taken up by the blood and carried 
by the portal vein to the liver, where it is deposited as 
glycogen or liver-starch. The liver acts as a store- 
house for the deposition and accumulation of these con- 
verted starchy foods, which are subsequently supplied 
to the system as the needs of the economy demand, 
there to undergo oxidation for the manifestation of heat 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 

and energy, and for building up the fatty tissues and 
structures of the body. 

The functions of the starchy foods are thus seen to be 
the production of animal heat and energy by oxidation, 
and the formation of new fatty tissues. The latter 
property has been demonstrated by Lawes and Gilbert 
by experiments in the fattening of pigs. The fat given 
in the food was not sufficient to account for all the fat 
stored up in the pigs. Most of it must have been de- 
rived from conversion of the carbo-hydrates ; but a 
portion may have been due to the metabolism of nitro- 
genous substances. 

The fattening caused by a diet rich in starch and 
sugar, may partially be due to the oxidation of these 
substances saving the fatty tissues from destruction, and 
allowing the fat in the diet to form new fatty tissues. 

Although the functions of the fats and carbo-hydrates 
in the economy are very much the same, they are not 
mutually replaceable under ordinary conditions, if 
health and vigour are to be maintained at their 
maximum. Where men are much exposed to very 
cold temperatures and undergo great fatigue in the 
open air as during arctic expeditions a diet of albu- 
minates, fats, salts, and water (without carbo-hydrates), 
may maintain them for a time in good health. But the 
deprivation of fat from the diet under any circumstances 
is not well borne, and leads rapidly to loss of health and 
vigour. 

It also appears that the carbo-hydrates are concerned 
with the maintenance of the proper reactions of the 
various bodily fluids (blood, lymph, gastric juice, urine, 
&c.). They give rise to lactic and other similar acids 
in the body, which act upon the alkaline phosphates, 
chlorides, &c., and elaborate the various acid juices 



314 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

characteristic of the different bodily secretions and 
excretions. Starches and sugars have much the same 
dietetic value. Cellulose is unchanged by the human 
digestive processes, and passes out as such in the faeces. 

It is evident therefore that a diet which is to maintain 
proper bodily health, must contain all the three sub- 
stances albuminates, fats, and carbo-hydrates. The 
albuminates are the most indispensible, as without them 
vital action must cease for want of a supply of nitrogen. 
But a diet of albuminates, salts, and water, alone, is 
rapidly destructive of healthy action. As before ex- 
plained, the excessive waste resulting from the meta- 
bolism of so much nitrogenous food, necessary to 
maintain animal heat and energy, overtaxes the system, 
and imperfectly oxidised substances accumulate in it, 
which pervert healthy action and eventually set up 
diseased processes. 

Vegetable acids. Except acetic and lactic acids, the 
vegetable acids contain more than sufficient oxygen to 
convert all the hydrogen into water. They exist in 
fresh vegetables and fruit, probably also in fresh meat 
and milk, in combination chiefly with alkalies as alkaline 
salts. These salts form carbonates in the system, and 
preserve the alkalinity of the blood and other fluids. 
This is their chief function, but they may also furnish 
a small amount of energy and animal heat by oxida- 
tion. If these substances are absent in a diet, the blood 
becomes impoverished and scurvy results. 

Scurvy, although formerly very fatal to crews of ships 
on long voyages, and to populations on shore during 
times of want and famine, can hardly be called now a 
disease of modern life, when fresh meat, vegetables, and 
fruit are within the reach of all classes. Such is the 
case at least with adults; but infants, fed exclusively 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 315 

upon condensed milk or preserved foods, have lately 
been shown to suffer from a form of scurvy. The 
haemorrhages characteristic of scurvy take place under 
the periosteum of the long- bones. The disease is often 
associated with rickets, and is generally rapidly cured 
by the administration of fresh milk and fresh food. 

The mineral salts are essential for the growth and 
repair of all the tissues of the body. The phosphates of 
lime, potash, and magnesia contribute largely to the 
formation of bone; whilst iron for the red blood cor- 
puscles and colouring matters, chlorine for the gastric 
juice, potash for the blood cells and solid tissues, and 
soda for the intercellular fluids, are all indispensible. 
Mineral salts are required in diets for all ages, but 
more especially for infants and children, when not only 
has waste to be made good, but new material for the 
growth of the body has to be supplied. 

Water is a component part of all the so-called solid 
foods, and is likewise taken separately; the amount of 
water contained in the solid foods of an average diet 
being insufficient for the needs of the body. Water is 
necessary to make up the losses occasioned by its 
excretion in the breath, sweat, urine, and faeces, and 
to renew all the various fluids and solid organs of the 
body, into whose constitution water largely enters. 
Water also serves as a vehicle for the solution and 
dilution of the solid foods, whereby they are more 
easily digested and assimilated, and is essential for the 
elimination of many waste products. 



Diet. 

From physiological experiment and calculation from 
dietaries of different kinds, tables of diets, giving the 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



amounts of the proximate constituents of food necessary 
for an adult under varying- conditions, have been con- 
structed. Thus there is a subsistence diet, calculated 
as sufficient for the internal mechanical work of the 
body alone ; a diet for ordinary work (consumption of 
visible energy equivalent to 300 foot-tons per diem) ; 
and a diet for laborious work (450 to 500 foot-tons 
daily); all suitable for a man of average size and 
weig-ht (150 lb.\ (Playfair, Moleschott, Pettenkofer, 
Voit, and Ranke). 





SUBSISTENCE. 


ORDINARY 
WORK. 


LABORIOUS 
WORK. 


Albuminates . 


Oz. Av. 

2-0 


Oz. Av. 
4*5 


Oz. Av. 
6-5 


Fats .... 


0-5 


3'5 


4-0 


Carbo-hydrates 


I2'0 


14-0 


17-0 


Salts .... 


'5 


I'O 


i'3 


Total water-free food 


15-0 


23-0 


28-8 



The above quantities represent dry food. Ordinary 
food contains 50 to 60 per cent, of water, so that the 
above quantities must be rather more than doubled if 
the diet is stated as so-called solid food (not water-free). 
About 50 to 80 ounces of water daily are in addition 
taken into the system in a liquid form, the quantity 
depending upon the amount of exertion undergone and 
the temperature and humidity of the air. 

By the following table, which shows the percentage 
composition of some of the more ordinary articles of 
food, it is possible to calculate a diet consisting of some 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 317 

of these common foods. Supposing a diet of meat, 
bread, and butter, is required for a body of men in 
ordinary work. 

Let.* = amount of meat required in ounces per head 
,, y = amount of bread ,, ,, ,, 

,, z = amount of butter ,, ,, ,, 

then ?ZJ x _j_ y _j_ jSJL 0=4-5 (albuminates) 

IOO IOO IOO 

11^5 x + JJL y + - -2 = 3-5 ( f ats) 

IOO IOO IOO 






y = 14 (carbo-hydrates) 



In 100 parts. 





WATER. 


ALBUMIN- 


FATS. 


CARBO- 


SALTS. 






AXES. 




HYDRATES. 




Cooked meat no loss 


54 


27*5 


*5'5 




3 


White fish ... 


78 


18 


3 





i 


Bread white or wheaten 


4 


8 


i'5 


49 


*'5 


Oatmeal . 


15 


12-6 


5'6 


63 


3 


Peas (dry) 


15 


22 


2 


53 


2-4 


Potatoes . 


74 


2 


0-16 


21 


T 


Butter 


6 


33 


88 





2 7 


Cheese . 


36-8 


33'5 


24'3 





5*4 


Milk, sp. gr. 1030 
Egg, with shell 


86-8 
73'5 


4 
I3'5 


37 
n-6 


4-8 


0-7 

i 



and these equations when solved, give the required 
amount of meat as 8 ounces, the bread as 28'6 ounces, 
and the butter as 2-1 ounces. 

The amount of nitrogen in the diet for ordinary work 
is 315 grains, and the amount of carbon 4790 grains. 

One ounce of albumen contains 70 grains of nitrogen 
and 212 grains of carbon, an allowance being made for 



3l8 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the carbon which is excreted as urea, and which may be 
considered to be oxidised as far as carbonic oxide only. 
One ounce of fat contains 336 grains of carbon, and an 
ounce of carbo-hydrates about 190 grains of carbon. 

In the best diets the proportion of nitrogen to carbon 
should be about as I to 15. 

The energy obtainable from the different articles of 
food is expressed as so many foot-tons per ounce con- 
sumed. It is the amount which would be produced 
theoretically, if the constituents of the food were com- 
pletely oxidised to carbonic acid and water. It is evi- 
dent that such theoretical expressions may have little 
bearing upon dietetic value, which depends so largely 
upon the digestibility and capability of assimilation 
possessed by the different food products. In the case of 
the albuminates also, a portion passes out incompletely 
oxidised in the form of urea. The figures usually given 
are : 

One ounce of dry albuminate yields 173 foot-tons of 
potential energy. 

One ounce of fat yields 378 foot-tons of potential 
energy. 

One ounce of dry carbo-hydrate yields 135 foot- tons 
of potential energy. 

According to these figures the average daily diet for 
ordinary work is capable of yielding 3977-5 foot-tons, 
or in round numbers close upon 4000 foot-tons. A large 
proportion of this theoretical energy, viz., about 2500 
foot-tons, is devoted to the maintenance of the body 
temperature, and to the performance of the various 
bodily functions. 

When food is taken in large excess of the require- 
ments of the system, a considerable portion remains 
undigested ; fermentative and putrefactive changes are 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 319 

set up in the undigested mass as a result of the activity 
of the bacterial organisms always present in the intes- 
tinal canal, foetid gases containing sulphur and carbon 
are formed, and dyspepsia and diarrhoea are provoked. 
Some of the products of putrefaction possibly the alka- 
loids already referred to, the ptomaines and leucomaines 
are absorbed into the blood and cause fever, torpor, 
headache, and foetid breath. Excess of fats and 
starches tends to produce acidity and flatulence, whilst 
taken habitually in excess they may cause excessive 





Energy developed by 
one ounce when oxi- 
dised in the body. 




FOOT-TONS. 


Meat, cooked 
Bread 
Butter 


106 
88 
33Q 


Potatoes . 
Oatmeal . 
Peas, dried 
Cheese 


33 
130 
119 
150 


Eggs 


68 



formation of fatty tissues and obesity. In all cases of 
over-eating, undigested muscular fibres, fat, and starch 
cells may be found by microscopical examination in the 
faeces, and occasionally albumen and sugar will be 
found in the urine. 

Deficiency in all the constituents of a diet tends to 
produce loss of weight, debility, prostration, and ana;- 
mia. If carried to the point of starvation, low fever and 
gastric disturbances are often excited, ending eventually 
in death. It appears, however, that some constitutions 
can withstand long periods of fasting (30 or 40 days), if 



320 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

plenty of water is taken; perfect health being main- 
tained the whole time, although with gradually increas- 
ing emaciation and debility. The elimination of urea is 
always markedly diminished. The absence of fat in a 
diet leads to a state of malnutrition, possibly predispos- 
ing to such diseases as phthisis, scrofula, and tubercle, 
especially in children and young persons. The depriva- 
tion of starches can be borne for a long time if fat is 
given; but little is known as to the ultimate effects of 
such deprivation, for wherever food can be obtained at 
all, the starchy constituents, so widespread and abundant 
in nature, are sure to be largely represented. 



Meat. 

Meat contains a large quantity of the nitrogenous 
substances, some fat, and salts, chiefly the chlorides 
and phosphates of potash. It is rapidly digested and 
easily assimilated, and hastens tissue metamorphosis. 
The albuminates form 22 per cent, of raw meat (beef), 
of which about 17 parts are digestible albumens, pep- 
tones, and extractives, the remaining 5 parts being 
indigestible. 

Bones contain a large amount of nourishing material, 
viz., albuminates (gelatine) 24 per cent., fat 1 1 per cent., 
ash or mineral salts 48 per cent. A most nourishing 
soup can be prepared by boiling bones. Raw meat 
contains some substance with anti-scorbutic properties, 
which is probably destroyed in cooking. The men in 
the Eira Arctic Expedition were fed almost exclusively 
on raw meat, and escaped scurvy. 

In inspecting meat the muscles should be found firm 
and elastic, of a deep red colour not purple nor pale 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 32! 

and marbled with fat in well- conditioned animals. 
There should be no excess of moisture, no pus or fluids 
in the intermuscular cellular tissue, and no lividity on 
cutting the muscles across. The odour should be fresh 
and not unpleasant, without a suspicion of putridity or 
smell of physic. Meat which has commenced to putrefy 
is pale and soft, later it becomes green. If the odour 
of putrefaction is not apparent, a knife should be thrust 
into the meat up to the hilt and then held to the nose; 
or a little- of the meat may be chopped up and soaked 
in warm water. The fat should be firm and of a pale 
yellow colour, free from haemorrhagic points. The 
lungs should be examined for inflammation or abscesses, 
and the liver for Distoma or liver-fluke. 

Cysticerci (fig. 41) may be seen with the naked eye in 




FIG. 41. Head of Cysticercus Cellulosas X about 40 diameters. 

the flesh of cattle and pigs, as small rounded bodies. 
Their size varies from T ^ inch up to \ inch in dia- 
meter. They should be further examined under the 
microscope with a low power for the discovery of the 
hooklets (fig. 41). The cysticercus of the ox produces 
Tania Mediocandiata in man, and that of the pig Tcenia 
Soltum, 

Encapsuled Trichina may be found in pigs' flesh, 



322 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

especially in the diaphragm, the intercostal muscles, 
and the muscles of the eye and jaw. They can be seen 
with the naked eye as small round specks, and should 
be examined under the microscope to detect the coiled 
up and encapsuled worm (fig. 42). 

Cooking. The cooking of meat is necessary (i) to de- 
stroy any noxious organisms or poisonous bodies that 
may be present in raw meat ; (2) to preserve it from 
putrefactive changes by heat sterilisation ; and (3) to 
increase its digestibility and produce that palatability 
which a civilised taste demands. In all cooking pro- 
cesses meat loses weight, usually from 20 to 30 per cent. 




FIG. 42. Trichina Spiralis, encysted in muscle X about 40 diameters. 

In boiling a joint, the meat should be plunged into boiling 
water for five minutes to coagulate the outside albumen 
and retain the salts, extractives, and soluble substances, 
in the interior. The remainder of the boiling should 
be conducted at a temperature below 170 F. which 
is the temperature at which most of the albumin ates 
coagulate in order that the meat may not become 
tough, dry, and indigestible. On the other hand in 
making broth the meat should be cut into small pieces, 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 323 

and placed in cold water, which is gradually warmed 
to 150 F. ; in this way the salts and extractive matters 
pass out of the meat into the broth, together with a 
certain proportion of the more soluble albuminates. A 
final heating- to a boiling temperature is advisable, if 
there is any suspicion of taint in the stock meat, in 
order that putrefactive organisms may be destroyed. 

In baking and roasting, the joint of meat should first be 
subjected to an intense heat, to coagulate the outside 
albumen and retain the soluble juices. After a few 
minutes the temperature should be lowered, and the 
roasting or baking 1 completed at 180 F. to 200 F. 
The usual rule is to allow a quarter of an hour for 
every pound of meat. Aromatic products are formed 
in roasting- and baking which are volatilised; some of 
the fat is melted and flows out of the joint together with 
gelatine and extractives to form the gravy. 

The gas cooking ovens, which have now come so 
largely into use, present several advantages over kit- 
chen ranges heated by coal. They are very cleanly ; 
the temperature of the oven can be regulated with great 
nicety by adjusting the consumption of gas; there is 
the convenience of the oven being ready for use in a 
few minutes after the gas is lighted ; and as soon as the 
cooking is finished the gas can be turned out. It is very 
difficult to distinguish between a joint of meat baked in 
a gas oven, and one roasted before an open fire, if the 
gas oven is properly ventilated and a flue is provided to 
carry off the products of combustion. If the ventilation 
is insufficient either in a gas oven or ordinary close 
range oven, the meat becomes sodden in its own va- 
pours, and in the case of the gas oven, also with the gas 
products, which give it a disagreeable taste and odour. 
Gas cooking stoves should be provided with Bunsen 

Y 2 



324 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

burners, arranged round the side of the oven at the 
bottom ; and the oven walls should be double, the space 
between the plates being- well packed with slag- wool to 
prevent the radiation of heat. No soot is formed in gas 
cooking-, and there is no dust, ashes, and dirt, as in a 
coal cooking- range. 

Meat can be preserved by drying in strips in the sun 
called jerking; by salting; by canning, i.e., by boiling 
the meat in tins, which are hermetically sealed by sol- 
dering at the boiling temperature, all germs being de- 
stroyed by the process of boiling repeated more than 
once to kill the spores; and by refrigeration in the raw 
state a process now very largely used, by means of 
refrigerating chambers on board ship, for the importa- 
tion into this country of meat from South America and 
the Australian colonies. The last process is by far the 
best, as the freshness and nutritive value of the meat 
remain unaltered. It is almost impossible for any one to 
distinguish a New Zealand joint of mutton from the 
home product if it is properly cooked. The low tem- 
perature of the ice-house (not less than 6 F. below 
ireezing point), does not destroy the bacteria the 
agents of putrefaction but prevents their development 
so long as the temperature remains cold. The preser- 
vation, for many ages, of the Siberian Mammoth in its 
icy casing is a notable example of the antiseptic proper- 
ties of great cold. 

Effects of diseased or unsound meat. It was formerly be- 
lieved that thoroughly cooked meat is not likely to pro- 
duce any injurious effects, even when derived from a dis- 
eased animal, or after putrefactive changes have com- 
menced in it; but the most recent research rather tends 
to show that meat which is derived from a diseased 
animal, or which has become tainted by the presence 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 325 

of putrefactive bacteria, may possibly be cooked suffi- 
ciently to destroy the microbes themselves, whilst the 
ferments generated by the microbes, being unaffected 
by the cooking, continue to decompose the meat, and 
give rise to poisonous substances. This explains why 
tainted meat, eaten hot, is often harmless, but taken 
cold may produce symptoms of poisoning the bacterial 
ferments having had time to act upon the albuminous 
substances of the meat. The temperature employed in 
boiling or baking may therefore be insufficient to de- 
stroy the poisonous properties such meat in a raw state 
may possess. Where the meat is only partially cooked, 
and underdone in the centre, danger is still more likely 
to arise; and in such cases symptoms of poisoning, 
occasionally ending fatally, have been observed in those 
who have partaken of decomposing food. A large 
number of instances of meat poisoning have been con- 
nected with the consumption of sausages, pies, and 
hams. The symptoms are those of violent irritation 
of the alimentary tract, and are characterised by acute 
vomiting, diarrhoea and colic, increased mucous secre- 
tions, cramps in the extremities, and failure of the 
heart's action. Whether these symptoms are produced 
by putrefactive bacteria or special bacilli in the food, 
or by the products of their action upon albuminous 
substances the poisonous alkaloids, ptomaines and 
leucomaines it is impossible to say. The latter ex- 
planation appears to have some probability from the 
fact that these attacks are very sudden in their onset, 
and commence very shortly after partaking of the im- 
plicated food pointing therefore rather to the action 
of a chemical poison, than of a bacterial organism re- 
quiring time for its growth and development and that 
the symptoms of poisoning by the alkaloid muscarine, 



326 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

present very nearly identical features with those ob- 
served in these cases. 

Besides a muscarine-like poison, there appears to be 
another poison formed in decomposing flesh and fish, 
which produces symptoms analogous with those of atro- 
pine, viz., quickened pulse, paralysis of the muscles of 
the eyeball, and diminished secretion from the mucous 
membranes. This poison exerts an antagonistic effect 
upon the muscarine-like poison ; and in different cases 
one of these poisons may predominate over the other, 
and produce its characteristic symptoms more or less 
modified. The presence of these alkaloidal substances 
may possibly account for the ill-effects produced by 
eating oysters, mussels, and some kinds of fish, such 
as mackerel, when out of season, and pork in hot 
climates. 

The balance of evidence is, however, in favour of dis- 
eased meat from cattle, sheep, and pigs being eaten with 
impunity, if thoroughly cooked. Sickness and diarrhoea 
is occasionally produced by the consumption of such 
food in a partially cooked condition; and certainly 
there can be no reason why diseased meat should be 
allowed to be used for human consumption, and it is 
very properly condemned in this country wherever ex- 
posed for sale. There are certain diseases of animals 
which are known to be, or believed, on good grounds, 
to be transmissible to man. These are anthrax or 
malignant pustule, phthisis and tubercle, foot and mouth 
disease, rabies, glanders and farcy in horses, cysticercus 
cellulosae in the pig and ox, and trichina spiralis in the 
pig. With the exception of cysticercus and trichina, all 
these diseases are far more frequently transmitted to 
man by other means, than by the consumption of dis- 
eased flesh. But it must be remembered that such 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 327 

transmission is possible, and would probably be much 
more frequent than it is, were it not for the precautions 
taken to prevent the sale of unsound meat, and for the 
safeguard of cooking". 

The question as to whether the meat from animals 
which have suffered from a localised tuberculosis should 
be allowed to be sold for human consumption, has been 
lately brought prominently forward. It is now gene- 
rally agreed that all such meat should be condemned, as 
there is at least a likelihood of tubercles having been 
deposited in the muscular structures or in other parts 
of the carcase used as food. The decision given in the 
important Glasgow meat case in favour of the condemna- 
tion of such meat by the sanitary authority, was largely 
based upon the above view. 

Bovine and porcine cysticerci, which develope tsenia 
mediocanellata and tsenia solium respectively in man, 
are probably little affected by salting and smoking. 
There is good ground for believing that exposure for 
some minutes to a temperature above 150 F. does 
destroy them. The same may be said for the trichina 
spiralis, only the temperature must be somewhat higher, 
as the worm is surrounded by a dense capsule which 
prevents the heat reaching it. 

The meat of animals which have been slaughtered in 
the early stages of acute inflammatory disease and epi- 
demic pleuro-pneumonia, is probably quite wholesome, 
if well cooked, unless the animals have been drugged 
with medicines before killing. The evidence as regards 
the possible bad effects from the use of meat, taken from 
animals which have suffered from rinderpest or cattle 
plague, braxy or splenic apoplexy (sheep), and small- 
pox (sheep), is conflicting. 



328 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH, 



Milk. 

Milk is the natural food of all animals belonging- to 
the mammalia for a longer or shorter period following 
their birth. It therefore contains all the constituents of 
the standard diet, and these in the proportions most 
favourable for the growth and development of the 
young animal. In many of the milks secreted by the 
different kinds of animals, the fats, the nitrogenous 
substances, the salts and the water, are found in pro- 
portions, as compared with the carbo-hydrates, largely 
exceeding those contained in the ordinary food of the 
adult animal. This is notably the case in man ; the 
albuminates, the fats, and the salts being required in 
large quantities for the rapid growth of the body in 
infancy, whilst the water is essential for the quick for- 
mation of tissue and for the rapid elimination of waste 
products. 



Average Percentage Composition by Weight (Wynter Blyth), 





HUMAN 
MILK. 


Cows' 
MILK. 


ASSES' 
MILK. 


GOATS' 

MILK. 


MARES' 
MILK. 


Fat 


2*QO 










Casein 
Albumens, &c.. . . 
Milk Sugar .... 
Salts 


0-67 
5-87 

0*16 


3'98 
0-94 
4-00 


1-09 
0-80 
5*50 


4 ^u 
3-00 
70 
4-00 


* 5 
2-19 
0-51 


Total Solids . . . 
Water . . . 


I2'OO 

88-00 


13-12 
86*88 


8-83 


12-46 

p_._ A 


II-2O 

QO.O n 








91 17 


7 54 





The varying proportions of the different solid con- 
stituents of milk as stcreted by the human female, the 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 32Q 

cow, the ass, the goat, and the mare, are shown in the 
table. The presumption is that the natural milk of one 
young animal is not suited for the nutrition of another 
animal of a different species. This is certainly true of 
the human infant, which thrives far better on its mother's 
milk, or the milk of a wet-nurse, than on cows' milk 
the almost universal food for hand-fed children. In 
cows' milk the casein is in far too large a proportion as 
compared with human milk ; the fat and salts are also 
in excess, whilst the milk sugar is very deficient. 

In the process of digestion, milk is curdled by admix- 
ture with the acid of the gastric juice; the casein and fat 
separate as curd, whilst the sugar, the soluble albumens, 
and the salts, remain dissolved in the water as whey. 
The curd of human milk forms a loose flocculent mass, 
easy of digestion and assimilation ; whilst cows' milk 
clots in putty-like or wet cheese-like masses. The cows' 
milk curd is with difficulty digested ; it gives rise to 
dyspepsia, flatulence, and diarrhoea, and much of it may 
be passed unaltered in the faeces. Asses' and mares' 
milk approximate much more closely in composition to 
human milk, and give a loose, flocculent, and digestible 
curd like human milk. Goats' milk is too rich in fat and 
proteids, but it also gives the proper kind of curd in the 
human stomach. 

For hand-fed infants under 9 months of age, if cows' 
milk is used, it should be given diluted with water and 
with the addition of milk sugar. The dense clotting 
may be, to a certain extent, prevented by the addition of 
some mucilaginous substance to the milk, such as pearl 
barley-water well boiled and strained, which has the 
mechanical effect of preventing the particles of casein 
coming too close together, and the curd thus formed is 
looser and more easily attacked by the digestive juices. 



33O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Koumiss is a fermented drink prepared from mares' 
milk in Russia and Tartary, and in this country it is 
now largely made from cows' milk. It is very easily 
digested and absorbed, and is a valuable food for in- 
valids. 

All the solid constituents of the milk are dissolved in 
the water of the milk, with the exception of the fat, 
which exists as innumerable minute globules floating 
freely in the fluid. 

Cows' Milk. The average milk secretion of a healthy 
cow may be taken as 20 to 25 pints daily; but the quan- 
tity of milk and its richness in solid constituents depend 
largely upon breed in different cows, and in the same 
cow upon its age, the age of the calf, and the season of 
the year as influencing its food. As a general rule it 
may be stated that cows' milk should have not less than 
12-5 per cent, of total solids, of which 3*2 per cent, is 
fat, and 07 per cent, is salts, the specific gravity of the 
milk being 1029 or 1030, and the percentage of cream 
by volume not less than 10 per cent. 

To make up the standard diet for an adult man of 23 
ounces of water-free food, 9 pints of milk (sp. gr. 1030) 
must be consumed. In such a diet, the albuminates, the 
fat, and the water would be far in excess of the require- 
ments of the system. A prolonged course of milk diet 
no other food being given has been found exceedingly 
useful in certain cases of albuminuria and kidney dis- 
ease. Skimmed milk only should be taken, and a por- 
tion of the casein should be separated by rennet (a 
preparation from the gastric mucous membrane of the 
calf). By this means the diet is deprived of much of its 
fat and albuminates ; and the other constituents, being 
very assimilable, give the kidneys little work to do in 
elimination, whilst the water clears away disease pro- 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 33! 

ducts from the uriniferous tubules and promotes and re- 
stores healthy function. 

Many persons, from constitutional idiosyncrasy or 
weak digestion, cannot drink milk at all. If the milk is 
first curdled by the addition of a few drops of acetic 
acid or a little rennet, and the curds and whey, thus 
formed, beaten up together and a little salt and pepper 
added, a most digestible dish is prepared, by reason of 
the stomach being saved the operation of curdling which 
is the cause of the disagreement. 

When milk is allowed to stand the cream rises to the 
top of the vessel in about 6 hours; a centrifugal appa- 
ratus is now largely used for the separation of cream. 
Subsequently milk undergoes the lactic fermentation, 
and becomes markedly acid, the sugar being converted 
into lactic acid by the agency of a special bacterium 
which grows and multiplies in the milk at suitable tem- 
peratures. The milk becomes curdled, and the whey 
separates from the curd. At a later stage the lactic 
acid is converted into butyric acid by means of another 
bacterium or bacillus; the milk at the same time be- 
comes turbid, and putrefactive changes set in from the 
growth of bacterium termo and other saprophytic or- 
ganisms. 

Milk may be sterilised, and thus preserved from fer- 
mentation and decomposition by repeated boilings in 
vessels which are hermetically sealed at the boiling tem- 
perature. It is also preserved in a desiccated form as a 
powder, the water being expelled by evaporation ; or 
it is mixed with sugar and highly concentrated, being 
then sold as "Swiss Condensed" Milk. It has lately 
become the custom, where milk is sent by railway from 
country farms to town retailers, to add a little salicylic 
acid, boro-glyceride, or boracic acid to the milk as a 



332 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

preservative against fermentative changes in transit. 
Whatever antiseptic is used, it is consumed with the 
milk by the customer, and adds another danger to the 
already large catalogue attributable to milk. 

There is at the present time a very copious literature 
dealing with the diseases and injurious effects attribut- 
able to the use of cows' milk. Forming as it does, so 
large a proportion of the daily food of infants, young 
children, and invalids of all ages, and consumed, as it 
generally is, by all ages and all classes, in an uncooked 
state, the importance of the inquiries that have been 
made and of the facts that have been elicited can hardly 
be over-estimated. The following considerations will 
be found of use in arriving at a proper understanding of 
the subject. 

Milk has a remarkable power of absorbing gases and 
vapours, organic and inorganic. It is, besides, a fluid 
which, while possessing all the essential constituents 
of food, forms a most suitable cultivating medium for 
low forms of life, fungoid or bacterial. So that it is 
not too much to assume that specific disease germs 
which have gained access to the milk, may so grow and 
multiply as greatly to increase its power of infection as 
time elapses. 

Milk, as being derived from the living animal, must 
be also, to a great extent, a reflection of the animal's 
state of health. But we can go further than this, and 
say that milk is, for a certain period, derived from an 
animal in the puerperal condition consequent on partu- 
rition a condition known to be liable to certain dis- 
orders, chiefly inflammatory, and particularly prone to 
take the infection of contagious disease. 

Milk which has become acid from lactic fermentation, 
is liable to cause sickness and diarrhoea in children ; 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 333 

and if oidium albicans is present in the milk, it may attack 
the mouth and digestive tract of infants causing- thrush. 
Other fungi and moulds penicillium, aspergillus, mucor, 
etc. (see p. 77) when present, may cause severe gas- 
tric irritation. Similar symptoms have been produced 
by pus and fluids from inflamed udders and udder 
abscesses contaminating the milk. 

We thus see that cows' milk may become injurious 
from the fermentative changes to which it is liable after 
exposure to the air; from its capacity for absorbing 
foul gases and vapours when stored in uncleanly places; 
and from its ability to harbour and foster microbes and 
spores which may come into contact with it all these 
causes operating after the milk has been drawn from 
the cow. Besides all this, there is now a large body of 
evidence to support the view that disease of the cow 
may be transmitted through the milk secretion to human 
beings. 

In 1881 Mr. Ernest Hart, in a paper read before the 
International Medical Congress, gave tables with par- 
ticulars of 50 epidemics of enteric fever, 15 of scarlet 
fever, and 6 of diphtheria 4800 cases of infectious 
disease in all which had been traced to an infective or 
a supposed infective quality of the milk supplies, and 
since that date there have been numerous other milk 
epidemics recorded. 

In the case of enteric fever, the most usual means by 
which milk obtains its specifically infectious quality is 
the washing of the milk cans, or the intentional dilution 
of the milk, with water polluted by typhoid dejecta. In 
other cases, the milk has been found to be stored in 
rooms or dairies, the air of which was subject to drain 
or sewer emanations, presumably containing the specific 
poison of the fever. It is also possible that enteric fever 



334 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

is a disease of cattle communicable to man through the 
milk secretion, or by means of pollution of the milk by 
the alvine discharges through careless milking. In 
Germany, Walder has examined calves dead of a 
disease bearing a very strong resemblance to enteric 
fever, if not actually identical ; and in this country milk 
epidemics of typhoid have been recorded, which were 
associated with a diseased condition of the cows supply- 
ing the milk, and a failure to trace the origin of the 
outbreak to a human source. Such evidence is, how- 
ever, of no great value, and requires confirmation in 
every particular. 

In those epidemics of scarlet fever which have been 
traced to milk, it has been usual to find that the milk 
was infected in the ordinary way by a previous case of 
the disease at the farm or dairy. The cows were 
milked by a person who was attending on a scarlet 
fever patient, who had the disease amongst his family 
possibly in an unrecognisable form as sore throat with- 
out rash or who was himself suffering from it in a mild 
or disguised form. Occasionally the milk appears to 
derive its infective quality from being kept in a room in 
which clothes or refuse matters from the sick are lying. 

But besides such easily understood methods, the his- 
tory of the Hendon and Wimbledon outbreaks serves to 
show that cows are liable to a disease identical with or 
very closely resembling human scarlet fever, and that 
the milk from animals so suffering has been the cause 
of epidemic outbursts of the disease amongst those who 
consumed it. Dr. Klein isolated an organism a 
streptococcus from the udder lesions (ulcers) on the 
Hendon cows, which he believes to be the true patho- 
genic organism. This streptococcus has also been 
found in the diseased organs and tissues of human 
scarlatinal cases. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 335 

Subcultures of this organism obtained from human 
scarlatinal cases, when inoculated into recently calved 
cows, are said to produce the characteristic ulcers on 
the teats, along- with other manifestations of the Hendon 
cow disease; and calves fed on these subcultures obtain 
the same disease. This matter has been, however, and 
still is, the subject of much controversy. The opponents 
of the views of Dr. Klein, and of Mr. Power, who in- 
vestigated the Hendon outbreak, hold that a possible 
human source of the disease at Hendon was not abso- 
lutely excluded, and assert that other cows which had 
the Hendon disease did not give rise to any scarlet fever 
outbreak. Dr. Crookshank also has sought to prove 
that a disease of cows in Wiltshire which may or may 
not be the Hendon disease is really cow-pox, and that 
inoculation with matter from the diseased cows produces 
the characteristic vesicles. It is generally held, how- 
ever, that Dr. Crookshank has failed to substantiate his 
case; and the balance of evidence is strongly in favour 
of the Hendon disease being bovine scarlet fever. 

In a large percentage of the milk epidemics of diph- 
theria, it has not been possible to trace the source from 
which the milk derived its infective quality. This is not 
to be wondered at, for, in the first place, our knowledge 
is not yet sufficiently definite to enable us to exclude 
diphtheria from the class of diseases which are not 
necessarily dependent on a pre-existing case, and which, 
possibly arising from ordinary insanitary conditions, 
may be said to have a de novo origin ; and in the second 
place, slight cases of diphtheria are very difficult to 
trace, the diphtheritic character of a sore-throat not 
being always recognisable even to a medical attendant. 
There is but little evidence tending to show that diph- 
theria may be a cow disease transmissible to human 



336 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

beings. Calves have been known to suffer from a throat 
affection presenting- post-mortem appearances very 
similar to those found in human diphtheria. But this 
disease of calves, even if it were more general than it is, 
would not account for diphtheria appearing amongst 
the customers of those establishments the large major- 
ity in or near large towns where the calves are sent 
away as soon as born, and the cows come after 3 or 4 
days into regular milking. The question as to whether 
garget or mammitis in cows is capable of producing 
diphtheria in the consumers of milk taken from gargety 
udders, may be answered in the negative. 

it certainly seems, from the evidence we possess, as 
if diphtheria is capable of being transmitted in milk 
from farms or dairies which are carefully kept and 
in good sanitary condition, and where apparently there 
has been no pre-existent case of the disease. Under 
such circumstances it is only natural to look to the cows 
themselves as the cause of the disease. 

Stall-fed dairy cows in towns are very susceptible to 
tubercle. Veterinary authorities have stated that at least 
25 per cent, of all dairy cows kept in towns are the 
subjects of this malady. These animals are stalled day 
and night in stables often uncleanly and badly venti- 
lated, and they are perpetually being drained of large 
quantities of milk. Prolonged lactation in the human 
female is well known to be a frequent precursor of 
phthisis ; and it is not wonderful that under such 
circumstances, and with the additional factors of con- 
finement, want of exercise, and bad air, cows should 
succumb to a malady to which they are in a high degree 
susceptible. It often happens that the best bred animals, 
which are also usually the best milkers, are those which 
are most affected. In the early stages the symptoms 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 337 

of the disease are ill-defined, the health of the animal 
is not much interfered with, and the milk secretion is 
as abundant as ever. Nutrition is not interfered with 
until the disease is far advanced, and even then the 
amount of milk yielded, although poor in quality, may 
not be diminished, and the dairy farmer continues to 
keep the animal in stock. 

So far as at present known, the milk of tuberculous 
cows is free from tubercle bacilli, unless there has been 
as is very frequently the case a deposition of tuber- 
cles in the glands of the udder. In every town dairy of 
any size there will probably be tubercular cows, some 
of them most likely with tubercular udders, and as it is 
the common custom with dairymen to mix together the 
milk yielded by different cows, it is not too much to 
assume that tubercle bacilli may be widely distributed 
in the rnilk supply. 

The bacilli of bovine tuberculosis are identical ac- 
cording to all bacteriological methods at present known 
with those found in tubercular formations in the 
human organs, although the disease presents anatomical 
differences in man and cattle. But these differences 
are probably due to differences of soil in the human and 
bovine tissues, the bacilli engrafting themselves in those 
tissues which present conditions most favourable to their 
growth and development. 

It has been shown that the milk of tuberculous cows 
containing tubercle bacilli, when given as food, produces 
tuberculosis in rabbits, guinea pigs, and dogs. But the ; 
evidence as to the transmissibility of the bovine disease t 
to man is at present of the slightest. This absence of 
evidence is due to the great difficulties surrounding such 
determinations, and also to the want of observation and 
of properly recorded data. A strong confirmation of 



338 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the view that bovine tuberculosis is transmissible, at 
least to yonng children, is contained in the fact that the 
mortality of children under 5 years of age from primary 
tubercular ulceration of the intestines, and from tuber- 
culosis of the peritoneum and mesenteric glands (tabes 
mesenterica) is very high. For the period 1871-80, the 
mortality of children under 5 from tubercular peritonitis 
and tabes mesenterica was at the rate of 2*5 per 1000, 
which approaches closely the mortality from measles 
(2-57 per 1000) for the same period, and is more than 
twelve times as great as the mortality figure from these 
diseases in any of the 5 year age-periods of later life. 
The extreme incidence of primary tubercular disease of 
the abdominal lymphatic system on young children is at 
once seen from these figures. There can be little doubt 
that the tubercular virus in these cases is introduced 
into the body with the food, and that the virus is ab- 
sorbed through some part of the digestive tract. In the 
matter of dietary there is one great distinguishing fea- 
ture between this age-period and all others. Under 5 
years of age, unboiled milk forms the staple food of 
children. 

Foot and mouth disease or epizootic eczema is a contagious 
disease, characterised by an eruption of small vesicles 
on the lining membrane of the mouth and the inter-digital 
spaces of the feet; not unfrequently the vesicles appear 
on the udders and teats. In the majority of cases the 
milk secretion is diminished as the disease progresses, 
and may become entirely suspended. The fever runs 
its course in from 8 to 15 days. The contagium exists 
in its most concentrated form in the lymph or serum of 
the vesicles (those on the teats are liable to be ruptured 
in milking) and in the saliva ; but it also exists in the 
secretions, milk, and blood of diseased animals, and it 
possesses a long vitality and is very enduring. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 339 

Numerous outbreaks of a peculiar illness have been 
traced to the use of milk from cows with this disease. 
The symptoms were high fever, vesicular eruptions on 
the throat and lips, and marked swelling" of the lym- 
phatic glands of the neck. It is probable that the trans- 
mission of the disease is most certain in those cases 
where there are vesicles on the teats, which are sure to 
be ruptured in milking, the virus thus obtaining direct 
access to the milk. 

In the case of cows suffering from cattle plague and 
anthrax, the milk secretion is suspended at a very early 
stage, whilst in contagious pi euro -pneumonia and rabies 
there is no evidence of any ill-effects. In cow-pox the 
milk secretion is said to be rapidly diminished or 
suppressed. 

Until cow-sheds and dairies are placed under rigor- 
ous sanitary control, and until cow diseases are better 
understood and recognised, the only safeguard against 
the spread of disease through milk is to boil it. Ex- 
posure to the heat of boiling water for 5 minutes 
destroys the life and action of every variety of specific 
disease virus, and practically sterilises the milk. The 
sterilisation the destruction of all living organisms is 
of especial importance where infants are fed on cows' 
milk. Under natural conditions, the mother's milk, as 
sucked in by the infant, is free from all organic life, but 
where cows' milk is substituted, living germs are intro- 
duced into the stomach, which may at this tender age 
be unable to cope with them, and loss of health and 
disease ensue. The act oX boiling produces no altera- 
tion in the nutritive properties of the milk, and its value 
as a food is in no way affected thereby. 

The examination of milk should be directed to the 
determination of its quality, as expressed by the amounts 

z 2 



340 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of its solid constituents, and to ascertain if water or 
other adulterants have been fraudulently added. 

The reaction of the milk should be neutral or very 
faintly acid or alkaline. The colour should be an 
opaque-white ; a yellow colour may be due to the food 
of the cows, or may be imitated by the addition of 
annatto to the milk. There should be no peculiarity in 
the taste or smell. 

The specific gravity varies with the temperature. The 
average may be taken at 1030 at 60 F. (1031 at 39 F., 
1029 at 70 F.). 

The cream, as measured in a cream tube, varies 
considerably according- to the breed of the cow and its 
food. It should not be less than 10 per cent, by volume 
of the milk. If the milk has been skimmed, the cream 
will be low, and the specific gravity of the milk will be 
high ; for the removal of the fat raises the specific 
gravity. But the addition of water lowers the specific 
gravity ; so that a milk which has been creamed and 
watered may have a normal specific gravity. 

To determine the total solids of the milk, a measured 
quantity (5 c.c.) should be weighed and evaporated to 
dryness over a water-bath in a platinum dish. The 
residue may then be weighed, and the total solids of the 
milk calculated. They should not be less than 12-5 per 
cent, by weight of the milk. The ash or mineral salts 
may be determined by incinerating the total solids, 
until all carbon is burnt off, and weighing the residue. 
This should not be less than 07 per cent, by weight of 
the milk. If the ash is very high, chalk, salt, or sodium 
carbonate may have been added. 

To estimate the fat, a weighed volume of the milk 
(3 c.c.) should be concentrated to dryness over the 
water- bath after admixture with pure, clean sand. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 34! 

From the dried product the fat may be extracted by 
ether in a fat- extraction apparatus, and weighed. It 
should amount to not less than 3-2 per cent, by weight 
of the milk. 

Deducting the fat from the total solids (12-5 3-2=9-3) 
the "solids not fat" may be estimated. They should be 
not less than 9-3 per cent, by weight of the milk, and 
from this determination the amount of added water by 
weight if any can be arrived at. 

If the solids (not fat) are 9-3 per cent., or over, no 
water has been added to the milk. But if less than 9-3, 
water has been added. 

Example. Suppose the solids not fat are only 8'5 per 
cent, by weight of the milk, then 

= _ _ 8 . 6 



ioo x 9-3 

the percentage of water added. 

Some of the deposit from the bottom of the cream 
tube should be examined microscopically to detect colos- 
trum corpuscles, pus or blood cells, starch (added to 
thicken a poor milk), annatto or turmeric (to colour it), 
and mineral particles as chalk or sand. 

A large proportion of the milk retailed in London has 
had some of its cream separated ; whilst the fraudulent 
addition of water is exceedingly common in districts 
where the adulteration acts are not enforced. 

It may be added that there is no method at present 
known for the detection of disease poisons in milk. 



Butter. 

When the cream of milk is churned, i.e., violently agi- 
tated in a suitable apparatus, the fat globules coalesce, 



342 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

entangling in their meshes some casein and serum. The 
butter, so formed, is then pressed to squeeze out some 
of the moisture, and salt added to preserve it. The 
percentage proportions of the constituents of butter are 
approximately as follows: 

Fat 83 

Curd .... i 

Ash i 

Milk-sugar . . I 

Water .... 14 

The fat of butter consists of a mixture of the glycer- 
ides of the fatty acids palmitic, stearic, and oleic not 
soluble in water; and also of the glycerides of certain 
soluble and volatile fatty acids, principally butyric, with 
small quantities of caproic, caprylic, and capric acids. 
It is the association of about 7-8 per cent, of the tri- 
glycerides of these volatile acids with the glycerides of 
the insoluble acids, which gives to butter-fat its peculiar 
and distinctive characters (Wynter Blyth). 



Composition of Butter- Fat (Wynter Blyth). 

Olein 42-21 = Oleic Acid . . . 40-40 

Stearin and Palmitin . 50-00 . J Steari e a " d Palmi - 

l tic Acids . . . 47-50 

Non-volatile and insoluble . . 87-90 



Butyrin 4-67 = Butyric Acid . . 3-49 

Caproin 3-02 = Caproic Acid . . 2-40 

Caprylin and Rutin . . o -io - { C *\i C and Rutic 



0-80 



100-00 Volatile and soluble . 6-69 



Total acids .... 94-59 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 343 

Margarine, oleo-margarine, or lutterine, is manufactured 
chiefly from beef-fat a mixture of stearin, margarine, 
and olein. The beef-fat is first finely minced and heated 
in tanks to about 39 C. The fat melts, and the water 
and debris sink to the bottom. The melted fat is run off 
as a clear yellow oil, and kept at a temperature of 
about 30 C. The stearin to a certain extent solidifies 
at this temperature, whilst the oleo-margarine is separ- 
ated as a liquid, from which much of the stearin has 
been removed, for it solidifies at a much lower tem- 
perature than stearin. The oleo-margarine is then 
filtered, pressed, churned up with milk to give it the 
flavour of butter, coloured with annatto, and cooled 
with ice, when it is ready for export. 

The average percentage composition of dry margar- 
ine-fat is as follows (Wynter Blyth). 

Palmitin 22-3 

Stearin 46*9 

Olein 30-4 

Butyrin, Caproin and Caprylin . 0*4 

From the tables it will be seen that the obvious dis- 
tinction between butter-fat and margarine-fat, lies in 
the fact that the butter-fat contains nearly 8 per cent, 
of the volatile fats, whilst the margarine- fat has barely 
\ per cent. In the analysis of these fats this difference 
is made use of. 

A weighed quantity of the melted fat (free from water) 
is heated in a flask with some pure caustic potash at a 
temperature of about 80 C., until the aromatic odour, 
at first perceived, is no longer noticeable. Soaps are 
formed by the combination of the alkali with the fatty 
acids, glycerine being displaced, and the volatile fats 
are driven off by the heat. The soaps are then decom- 



344 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

posed in a butter flask by the action of strong sulphuric 
acid; the non-volatile fatty acids are liberated, and are 
allowed to cool and form a hard cake. The acid liquid 
is run off from below the cake, which is then well washed 
with hot water, and after again cooling, is dissolved in 
ether. The ethereal extract is run into a platinum dish, 
the ether is evaporated off, and the non-volatile fatty 
acids are weighed. If they amount to more than 88 
per cent, by weight of the fat taken, the sample is not 
pure butter- fat. The percentage of foreign fat used as 
an adulterant can be calculated, as we know that pure 
butter-fat contains less than 88 per cent, of non-volatile 
fatty acids, whilst pure margarine-fat contains about 94 
per cent, of these acids. 



Cheese. 

In the manufacture of cheese, casein and most of the 
milk fat are precipitated from milk by rennet at a suit- 
able temperature. The curds are then pressed, to 
squeeze out the whey and reduce the mass to a proper 
shape. In the process of decay the fat increases at the 
expense of the casein, and numerous alkaloidal sub- 
stances, extractives, and aromatic acids are produced, 
which give a decayed cheese its aroma. These bodies 
are harmless, but occasionally a poisonous ptomaine 
called " tyrotoxicon " appears to be produced. This 
substance has also been discovered in cheap ice creams, 
and in milk stored during hot weather. The symptoms 
produced are allied to those of atropine poisoning. 
Various kinds of moulds grow in decaying cheeses, but 
they do not seem ordinarily to produce any harmful 
effects. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 345 



Wheat Flour and Bread. 

Wheat flour contains about 15 per cent, of water, 8 to 
12 per cent, of gluten (vegetable albumen), and 60 to 
70 per cent, of starch, sugar, and dextrin. It is very 
deficient in salts and fat. In the finest flour nearly all 
the outer envelopes of the wheat grain are separated. 
This separation of the bran, whilst it renders the flour 
fine in texture and white in colour, deprives it of much 
nutritious matter, for bran contains 15 per cent, of nitro- 
genous substances, 3-5 per cent, of fat, and 57 per cent, 
of salts. On the other hand most of this nutritious 
matter is in a form difficult of digestion and irritating to 
the bowels, for the outer envelopes of the wheat grain 
are hard and siliceous. Bread made from whole-meal 
flour is coming largely into favour. Where it can be 
tolerated its use may be advantageous, as it promotes 
evacuation of the bowels, even if it is not more nutri- 
tious than ordinary white bread. It is certainly deserv- 
ing of trial by the working classes, whose diet is often 
deficient in salts, fat, and nitrogen, and with the modern 
methods of very fine grinding, its irritant properties are 
reduced to a minimum. 

Bread is made by mixing water, yeast, and a little 
salt with wheat flour until a consistent dough is formed, 
which is allowed to rise before a hot fire, and then 
placed in a baking oven. By the action of the yeast at 
a suitable temperature, some of the starch is changed 
into sugar, and the sugar splits up into alcohol and 
carbonic acid gas. The coherent nature of the gluten 
prevents the escape of the carbonic acid, which forms 
for itself little cells in the substance of the loaf, and 
causes the spongy structure characteristic of well-made 



346 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

bread. The alcohol escapes into the air. It is impor- 
tant not to let the fermentative process go too far, or 
lactic and butyric acids may be formed, which cause 
the bread to be sour. Alum has the property of arrest- 
ing* this change, and of imparting a fine white colour to 
bread. Hence its frequent use by the baker. 

Aerated bread is now extensively used. In this 
system CO 2 gas is prepared and forced through the 
dough under pressure. Its great advantage lies in the 
fact that there is no fermentation as in ordinary bread 
making, and no danger of sourness and acidity being 
produced. There is besides no loss of starch, and no 
yeast is left in the bread to cause fermentative changes 
in the stomach giving rise to acidity, heart-burn, and 
flatulence. On the other hand the yeast fermentation is 
supposed to render the bread more easily attacked by 
the digestive juices in other words more digestible. 
Baking powders are occasionally used to disengage 
CO 2 gas, and cause dough to rise. They usually con- 
sist of sodium carbonate and some acid such as citric or 
tartaric, the acid and alkali being brought together for 
use. 

Under the microscope (fig. 51) wheat flour is seen to 
consist of round or oval starch grains, of very various 
sizes. The smallest are mere points, whilst the larger 
ones may reach to T oV^ of an inch in diameter or 
more. Intermediate sizes are very often absent. The 
hilum and concentric lines of the starch grains ale 
barely visible, if at all. Portions of the outer envelopes 
of the wheat grain may be detected in the coarser and 
more branny flours. 

Wheat grains are subject to attack by certain fungi, 
viz., (fig. 55) smut (uredo segttum), and bunt (uredofah'da), 
the latter being the commonest; rust or puccinia graminis, 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 347 



which attacks the stem and leaf; and ergot (oidium 
abortifaciens], which, however, is more often a disease of 
rye. Amongst the numerous animal destroyers of 
wheat are: vibrio tritici or ear-cockle, which destroy the 



<s> 

.;'/ -r""""^ 



* 
/K 



FIG. 43. Potato X 200. 






>T)%^x 
HPH^^ 

FIG. 44. Arrowroot X 200. 



FIG. 45. Maize X 200. 



^- 

FIG. 47. Barley X 200. 



FIG. 46. Rice X 200. 



FIG. 48. Pea X 200. 



grain and fill it with a cotton-like substance ; acarus 
farina; and the weevil or calandra granaria, a little insect 
visible to the naked eye which eats the core out of 
the grain leaving only the shell. 



348 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



These fungi and minute animals may likewise he 
recognised by means of the microscope in the flour 



FIG. 49. Bean X 200. 







FIG. 51. Wheat X 200. 



* 


FIG. 50. Oatmeal X 200. 




FIG. 52. Sago X 200. 



^ 

FIG. 53. Tapioca X 200. 

made from blighted and diseased corn ; and flour and 
bread, when allowed to become damp or from being 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 349 

badly stored, become the seat of growth of moulds and 
fungi such as mucor mucedo, pemcillium, and aspergillus 




FIG. 54. Puccinia Graminis X about 200. 



o c> o J 

O o O C> } a O 





FIG. 55. Smut Spores (Uredo FIG. 56. Acarus Farinas 

segetum) X about 200. 





FIG. 57. Vibriones Tritic X about 40. FIG. 58. Section of Wheat 

Grain (outer coat) X about 
LOO, a. Girdle cells, b. 
Cerealin Cells. 



35O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

(see p. 77). All these fungi are apt to produce dys- 
pepsia and diarrhoea, whilst the prolonged consump- 
tion of ergoted bread may give rise to the symptoms of 
ergotism, viz., painful cramps in the limbs, and gan- 
grene of the extremities. Ergot may be detected by 
the herring-like smell of propylamine, which is produced 
when liquor potassse is added to ergoted flour. 

With wheat at its present low price, adulteration is 
very little practised. Alum is normally present to a 
very slight extent in flour and bread (6 to 10 grains in a 
4 lb loaf) ; when added in any quantity, its presence 
may be detected by pouring a fresh infusion of logwood, 
made with distilled water, over the flour or bread. The 
colour of the logwood changes to a bluish or violet-grey 
as the alum acts as a mordant. 

There can be little doubt that alumed bread tends to 
produce dyspepsia and constipation. The alum also 
lessens the nutritive value of the bread, as it renders the 
phosphoric acid insoluble by the formation of aluminium 
phosphate; and it permits of an inferior flour being 
sold as a good one. 

The adulteration of wheat flour with other grains, 
such as barley, potato, beans, peas, maize, oats, rye, and 
rice, is now but little resorted to (figs. 43-53). 

The nitrogenous substances in these grains have little 
or no adhesive properties like wheat gluten, so that 
bread cannot be made from them, or only bread of 
an inferior quality. 

The nutrition values of some of these starchy foods 
will be seen from the following table. Barley-meal, 
oatmeal, peas, lentils, and maize or Indian corn, are all 
most nutritious and fattening, and very cheap. They 
are easily made into most nourishing porridges, soups, 
* Parkes' Practical Hygiene. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 351 

and puddings, with a little milk, and form very valuable 
though greatly neglected foods for people of small 
incomes. Starchy foods must be carefully cooked to 
render them digestible. By boiling or otherwise cook- 
ing, the cellulose coats of the starch granule are rup- 
tured, and the saliva and pancreatic juice then have 
ready access to the granulose the inner contents of 
the granule. 

Barley. The starch grains are almost indistinguish- 







xi 


1 J.UU p 


11 LJ5. 






WATER. 


ALBUMIN- 

ATES. 


FATS. 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES. 


SALTS. 


Wheat-flour . . . 


15-0 


II'O 


2'0 


70-3 


17 


Barley Meal . . . 


11-3 


127 


2-0 


71-0 


3-0 


Rye 




13-1 


2-0 


693 




Rice 


IO'O 




0-8 


83-2 


0*5 


Oatmeal 


15-0 


12-6 


5-6 


63-0 


3-0 


Maize 


*3'5 


I0'0 


6 7 


>4'5 




Arrowroot .... 




0-8 




833 


0-27 


Peas (dry) .... 


I 5' 


22-0 


2'0 




2-4 


Potatoes 


n A *n 


2'O 


O'i6 


2 I'O 


I *O 




Q I *O 


i '8 


o* ^ 
















'7 


C jj Q-OT 


T *f) 






0.6-- 


o* - 










y u D 


u 



able from wheat. Barley is very nutritious, and the ash 
is rich in iron and phosphates. 

Rye. The starch grains are like those of wheat, but 
many have a peculiar rayed hilum. Rye can be made 
into -bread, which is very acid and dark coloured, and 
liable to produce diarrhoea in those unaccustomed to it. 

Oatmeal. The starch grains are small and angular, 
and tend to cohere into rounded masses. It is most 
nutritious and somewhat laxative. When badly pre- 



352 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

pared, oatmeal may contain hairs and husks, which are 
liable to form intestinal concretions. 

Maize. The starch grains are small, compressed, and 
facetted. The pellagra, a wasting disease common in 
parts of Italy, is supposed to arise from the use of 
maize blighted by a fungous growth. 

Peas and Beans. Pea starch grains are more or less 
oval, and many of them have a central longitudinal 
cleft extending nearly the whole length of the grain. 
Bean starch cells are somewhat larger and more 
flattened, and the longitudinal cleft is crossed by trans- 
verse fissures. Peas and beans contain a large amount 
of proteid substance called legumin (hence the name of 
legummoscB applied to these vegetables), also sulphur and 
phosphorus. They are highly nutritious, but somewhat 
indigestible, and are apt to give rise to flatus from the 
formation of sulphuretted hydrogen. 

Rice. The starch grains are very minute, angular, 
and facetted ; in shape like maize starch cells, but very 
much smaller. Rice is poor in everything but starch, 
which is, however, extremely digestible when cooked. 

Arrowroot. There are many different kinds of arrow- 
root obtained from various countries. As a rule the 
starch grains are oval or pyriform in shape, of large 
size, and with the hilum as a slight cleft or cross at the 
larger end of the grain. The concentric lines are very 
well marked. 

Sago and Tapioca. The starch grains of sago are 
large, irregular in shape, with ill-defined concentric 
lines. Those of tapioca resemble sago, but are con- 
siderably smaller. 

Potato. The starch grains of potato are very charac- 
teristic. Many of them are large and pyriform in 
shape, the hilum being at the smaller end, and the 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 353 

concentric lines are very well marked. Potatoes are 
very deficient in proteids and fats, but the starch is most 
digestible when properly cooked, and they are most 
valuable antiscorbutics, for they contain large quantities 
of the salts of the vegetable acids malates, tartrates, 
and citrates. The juice of the potato is acid. Potatoes 
are better cooked by steaming in their skins than by 
boiling when peeled ; for by the first method there is no 
loss of the salts to the water used for boiling, as occurs 
in the second method. 

In the case of all vegetables, and in fact in all cooking 
processes, soft water is far better than hard water, 
which coats the substances with a layer of chalk deposit, 
and prevents the penetration of heat to the interior. 



BEVERAGES. 

Coffee. 

Coffee berries contain fat, legumin, sugar, dextrin, 
vegetable acids, and mineral salts, also an aromatic 
oil, an alkaloid caffein (about 0*75 per cent.), and 
an astringent caffeo-tannic acid. When the berry is 
roasted, it swells from the formation of gases, the sugar 
is changed into caramel, and the aroma is developed. 
The roasted coffee is made into a beverage by infusion 
with nearly boiling water. If the water is used at a 
boiling temperature, some of the aroma is lost. 

The coffee infusion acts as a stimulus to the nervous 
system ; it increases the frequency of the heart's action, 
the urinary excretion, and the action of the skin, and is 
said to increase the evolution of carbonic acid from the 
lungs. It has considerable effect in removing the 
sensation of fatigue. It is valuable as a beverage for 

AA 



354 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



men undergoing exertion both in hot and cold climates, 
from its stimulant and invigorating 1 qualities. The heat 
of the infusion is useful in cold climates, whilst the in- 
creased action of the skin produces a cooling effect in 
hot climates. 

The principal adulterant of coffee is chicory. Occa- 




FIG. 59. Coffee. Cells of Testa and Cellular Structure X about 200. 

sionally starches such as wheat flour and potato flour 
are fraudulently added. Under the microscope, diligent 




FIG. 60. Chicory. Dotted Ducts and Cellular Structure X about 

200. 

search should be made for the long oval cells of the 
testa of the berry with their irregular cross-markings 
(% 59) ; an d fragments of the internal structure of the 
berry may be seen, consisting of an irregular network 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 355 

of fibres forming- a cellular structure, in which are con- 
tained dark angular masses and oil globules. All these 
structures are better seen before the berry is roasted 
and ground. Chicory is revealed by the presence of 
fragments of much coarser areolar tissue, and by the 
long dotted ducts, which . are quite characteristic 
(fig. 60). 

Roasted coffee floats for a considerable time in water, 
owing to the gases that are developed in roasting, and 
to the quantity of oil globules ; whilst roasted chicory 
rapidly sinks. Chicory contains no aromatic oil like 
coffee, but it has much sugar in its composition. When 
mixed with coffee it serves to sweeten it, and causes a 
darker coloured infusion than pure coffee gives. 



Tea. 

Dried tea leaves contain albumen, extractives, dex- 
trin, and mineral salts, also tannin (about 15 per cent.), 
an aromatic oil, and an alkaloid thein (1-8 per cent.). 
Green tea contains more tannic acid, thein, and ethereal 
oils than black tea, and is prepared from younger 
leaves. Formerly tea was exported almost exclusively 
from China, but now Indian and Ceylon teas have come 
largely into the market. 

Tea should be made with boiling water, but it should 
not be allowed to stand for more than five minutes the 
infusion being then poured into another vessel. If this 
is not done, so much tannin is extracted as to cause the 
infusion to be bitter and astringent, and most unwhole- 
some. If soft water is used, a smaller quantity of tea is 
necessary than with hard water, as- the soft water ex- 
tracts more from the leaves than hard. Dextrin, 

AA2 



356 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

glucose, tannin, thein, the volatile oil, and a small 
quantity of the albumen pass into the infusion. Tea 
should not be taken with, or shortly after meals, as 
the tannin tends to coagulate the albumens of the food 
undergoing the process of digestion. 

The action of tea on the system is similar to that 
of coffee. It is therefore valuable as a nervous stimu- 
lant and restorative in fatigued conditions of the body. 
The abuse of tea leads to weakened digestion, constipa- 
tion from the astringent properties of the tannin, and 




FIG. 61. Tea Leaves (natural size). 



nervous depression leading to insomnia and trembling 
the effects of the volatile oil and thein. 

The structure of the tea leaf is characteristic, and is 
best seen when the leaf is young and green. It is oval 
in shape (fig. 61), with a serrated border, and the 
primary veins run out alternately from the midrib, and 
turn towards the point of the leaf, but without reaching 
the border. Adulteration with foreign leaves is now 
little practised; but used leaves may be dried, mixed 
with gum and rolled, and sold as sound tea. Green tea 
used to be coloured or faced with indigo, Prussian blue, 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 357 

and other mineral substances. These may be looked 
for in the leaves after infusion. 



Cocoa. 

Cocoa is a food as well as a beverage, and is much 
less astring-ent than tea or coffee. Cocoa nibs contain 
nearly 50 per cent, of oil (cocoa butter), proteids about 
15 per cent., and theobromin allied to thein and caf- 
fein 1-2 to 0-5 per cent. The ash is rich in phosphate 
of potash. For people of weak digestion, some of the 
fat of the cocoa should be removed in its preparation. 

Cocoa is largely adulterated with wheat and other 
starches, and occasionally with brick dust. Some of the 
homeopathic cocoas contain hardly any cocoa at all. 




FIG. 62. Cocoa Starch Cells X about 200. 

The starch grains of cocoa are very small, and are 
often seen massed into the intercellular spaces of the 
structure of the nib (fig. 62). 



Mineral Waters. 

These are either derived from natural springs, the 
water of which contains gases (usually CO 2 ) or mineral 
salts in solution (salts of potassium, sodium, magnesium 
or lithium), or they are manufactured by impregnating 
ordinary river, spring, or well water, with CO 3 gas, 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

and dissolving in it small quantities of the mineral salts 
usually found in natural waters. Both kinds of water 
have come in recent years very largely into use. Be- 
sides the stimulant effect upon the digestive organs of 
the contained CO 2 , and the dietetic value of the mineral 
salts, these waters serve a useful purpose in providing 
a pure beverage for consumption in cases where there 
may be hesitation to drink the ordinary water provided 
for domestic purposes, on the ground of its possibly 
being tainted with impure matters derived from drains, 
cesspools, or other sources. Travellers both at home 
and abroad usually show a wise discretion in their 
preference for mineral waters to the ordinary water of 
the establishments in which they are staying or seeking 
refreshment. Too much reliance, however, should not 
be placed on the purity of the artificial waters, as in 
more than one instance it has come to our knowledge 
that certain manufacturers have obtained their waters 
from grossly polluted sources. In one case a water 
described as " the purest water in the world," was 
found to contain an excess of organic matter, and float- 
ing particles which on microscopical examination were 
discovered to consist of masses of fungi and bacteria. 
It was also strongly impregnated with sulphuretted 
hydrogen, which is not naturally found in the water of 
the district where the manufactory is situated. The 
consumption of such a water would undoubtedly prove 
injurious. 

There is one other danger in the use of the artificially 
aerated waters that requires mention. They very com- 
monly exhibit traces, and often very decided traces, of 
lead. This metal is dissolved from lead pipes or leaden 
apparatus used in the manufacture of the CO 3 , and the 
water charged with this gas holds the lead in solution. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 35Q 

On driving- off the CO 2 by boiling, the lead is usually 
deposited with the sediment of the alkalies, which are 
also held in solution by the g-as. Another possible 
source of the metal is the silicate of lead which enters 
into the composition of the glass bottles in which such 
waters are stored. The habitual use of these waters 
containing- traces of lead would undoubtedly in time 
lead to the development of symptoms of lead poisoning, 
the source of which would in all probability be over- 
looked. 



Fermented Liquors. 

A solution of grape sugar when subjected to the 
action of the yeast plant (saccharomyces cerevistce) at a 



FIG. 63. Torula Cerevisiae (Yeast Plant) X about 200. 

temperature of from 20 C. to 30 C., is mainly split up 
into alcohol and carbonic acid. 

C 6 H I2 O 6 = 2C 2 H 6 O + 2CO 3 . 

The yeast plant is composed of minute organised 
cells, oval in shape, and with granular protoplasm 
(fig. 63). In the presence of saccharine fluids at a 
suitable temperature, the cells undergo enormous multi- 
plication by the process of budding, and the alcoholic 
fermentation ensues. Under the microscope, the cells 
which are budding, may be seen as one larg~e cell 



360 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

united to one or two smaller cells, end to end, or groups 
of several budding- cells are attached together. The 
CO 2 escapes as gas from the fermenting liquor, whilst 
the alcohol remains dissolved in the solution. 

The fermented drinks may be considered under the 
heads of spirits, wines, and beers. 

Spirits. Brandy is manufactured by the distillation of 
wine. It contains from 50 to 60 per cent, of alcohol, 
the remainder of the liquid being water, in which are 
held various aromatic ethers (acetic, cenanthic, butyric 
and valerianic) and traces of other bodies. Its specific 
gravity is about 0*930 at 62 F. Rum is distilled from 
fermented molasses. 

Whisky is made by distillation of malted grain. 
When new, it contains amylic alcohol or fusel oil a 
substance, which, when present in any quantity, pro- 
duces rapid intoxication, followed by intense headache 
and depression. The percentage of alcohol in whisky 
is much the same as in brandy. Gin contains oil of 
juniper, and is sweetened with various aromatic sub- 
stances. Absinthe is a liqueur flavoured with various 
essential oils, and contains oil of wormwood, a rank 
poison to the nervous system. 

Wines. What are known as the lighter wines the 
Bordeaux, Burgundies, Rhine wines, Champagnes, and 
Moselles contain usually less than 10 or 15 per cent, 
of alcohol by volume. The stronger wines port, 
sherry, and Madeira contain from 15 to 25 per cent, of 
spirit. Besides alcohol, wines contain various aromatic 
compound ethers (cenanthic, citric, malic, racemic, 
butyric, caprylic, pelargonic, &c.) which impart the 
bouquet, albuminous and colouring matters, sugar, 
free organic acids, and their acid salts of the vegetable 
acid series, including tannic acid, which is largest in 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 361 

amount in new port wines, and mineral salts, chiefly 
those of potassium. 

Wines are manufactured from the fermented juice of 
the grape. Cheap wines are largely made from other 
fruits, and even grape juice wine is subject to various 
fortifications and adulterations to fit it for different 
markets. Home-made wines and cider are occasionally 
manufactured or stored in earthenware vessels, coated 
inside with a litharge glaze, which readily gives up 
large quantities of lead to acid liquids, such as these 
native wines are, and is thus productive of lead poison- 
ing. If earthenware vessels are used, they should be 
coated with a hard salt glaze. When wine is kept long 
in cask or bottle, there is a deposit of the colouring 
matter and tannic acid, and some of the sugar dis- 
appears. If air is not absolutely excluded, the acetous 
fermentation is liable to be set up from the entrance of 
the ferment (mycoderma aceti), which transforms alcohol 
into acetic acid (C 2 H 6 O becomes C 2 H 4 O 2 ), and the wine 
is soured. 

Beers. In the process of brewing, malted barley is 
subjected to successive infusions to convert the starch 
into grape sugar, and this liquid the ''wort" is then 
fermented, after the addition of yeast, in large open 
vats at a temperature of 15 C. to 18 C. The yeast 
floats on the surface and is removed by skimming. 
Hops or others bitters are then added. The percentage 
of alcohol in beer varies from 3 per cent, in the lighter, 
to 6 or 7 per cent, in the heavy beers. There are also 
contained in beer, malt extract (dextrin, sugar, lupulite, 
&c.) 4 to 15 per cent., free organic acids, traces of 
albuminous matters, and salts. 

Considered as articles of diet, wine and beer will 
produce effects which may be partly ascribed to the 



362 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

action of alcohol on the system, and partly to the other 
constituents of which they are composed. 

Leaving- out of consideration for the moment the 
effects of the alcohol, it will be seen that wine and beer 
possess some of the properties of a food. They contain 
sugar and starchy matters, mineral salts, rich in potash 
and phosphates, and a considerable amount of the 
vegetable acids and acid salts which are so valuable as 
antiscorbutics. The compound aromatic ethers in wine 
may also act as aids to digestion, by promoting 1 the flow 
of the pancreatic and intestinal juices; and the bitters of 
beer act as stomachic tonics. Little can be said against 
the use of beer and wine in strict moderation ; but taken 
habitually in excess, they lead to the storage up of 
superfluous fat in the tissues, and they interfere with the 
proper elimination of effete matters; imperfect oxida- 
tion leads to an excessive formation of uric acid, and a 
plethoric and gouty habit are produced, eventually 
tending to palpable disease. These effects are, doubt- 
less, in part due to the excess of alcohol taken into the 
system, but not entirely. Lessened metamorphosis has 
a considerable share in their production. 



Effects of Alcohol. 

Alcohol w : hen taken into the body is rapidly absorbed 
unchanged into the blood. It speedily commences to 
pass out of the body in an unaltered condition. The 
principal channel of elimination is the lungs and breath, 
but small portions are got rid of by the skin, the urine, 
and the bowels. Some probably the greater portion 
of the alcohol is destroyed in the body. The nature 
of the destruction has not yet been definitely ascertained. 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 363 

It is evidently not oxidised into CO 2 , for the pulmonary 
CO 2 is almost certainly lessened by the ingestion of 
alcohol. The transformation may be into acetic acid ; 
and this view is rendered more likely by the fact that 
the acidity of the urine is slightly increased after the 
use of alcohol. 

After full doses of alcohol given to a healthy man or 
animal, the following effects have been noted: I. The 
vessels of the stomach are dilated, and the flow of 
gastric juice augmented. 2. The force and frequency 
of action of the heart is increased. 3. There is partial 
paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves on the superficial 
vessels, which dilate, causing flushing of the skin of the 
face and other parts. 4. The brain is partially anaes- 
thetised ; the rapidity of external impressions, the 
power of concentrated thought, and the discrimination 
of the senses are all lessened, as is also sustained volun- 
tary muscular power. 5. The temperature of the body 
is slightly depressed ; but although there may be a 
decreased elimination of CO 2 by the lungs, there is no 
delay or diminution in the metamorphosis of tissue, for 
the excretion of urea in the urine is not affected. 6. 
The acidity and water of the urine are somewhat in- 
creased. 

The long-continued immoderate use of alcohol leads 
to degenerative changes, primarily in the stomach and 
liver, and at a later period in the kidneys, lungs, brain, 
and blood-vessels. The degeneration is characterised 
by increased growth of interstitial fibrous tissue, which 
in course of time shrinks and causes atrophy of gland- 
cells and loss of function. Chronic catarrh and cirrhosis 
of the stomach with cirrhosis of the liver followed by 
dropsy and haemorrhage, are the well-known indications 
of the alcoholic tendencies of the individual. 



364 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



The effect of intemperance in shortening life is now 
universally recognised. The statistics of temperance 
institutions bear overwhelming evidence on this point. 
It may be stated generally that the mortality of the in- 
temperate is from 4 to 5 times greater than that of the 
strictly temperate of the same age and in the same class 
of life. The following figures taken from Dr. Ogle's 
report (Supplement to the 45th Annual Report of the 
Registrar-General) may prove of interest. 

Comparative mortality of males 25-65 years of age. 





ALL 
MALES 
(ENGLAND 


BREWERS. 


INN-KEEPERS, 
PUBLICANS, SPIRIT, 
WINE, BEER- 




WALES). 




DEALERS. 


All causes (complete mortality 








figure) 
Diseases of nervous system 


IOOO 

119 


1361 
144 


I 5 2I 
200 


Diseases of respiratory system 


182 




217 


Diseases of urinary system 
Liver diseases 
Alcoholism 


4 1 
39 

10 


55 
96 

25 


83 
2 4 

55 


Gout .... 


3 


9 


13 



Those engaged in the brewing and licensed victual- 
ling trades are notably an intemperate class, but, natu- 
rally, if the temperate men in these trades could be 
excluded, the figures indicating special disease of or- 
gans would be very much magnified. 

All evidence points to the fact that alcohol is injurious 
to men who are exposed to extremes of climate ,(great 
heat and great cold), or who have to undergo great 
bodily or mental labour. For it is in no sense a food 
its oxidation if it is oxidised is productive neither 01 
heat nor of energy, nor does it save any tissue destruc- 



FOOD, BEVERAGES, AND CONDIMENTS. 365 

tion. Its effect on the circulation is distinctly injurious 
to those engaged in hard bodily work, for it causes the 
heart to do more work without conferring- any counter- 
balancing- advantage. 

In strictly moderate doses alcohol has not been proved 
to do any harm; and, taken in the form of beer or wine, 
many of the inhabitants of our large towns find it a 
useful aid to digestion and assimilation. A moderate 
dose may be taken to be I to ij fluid ounces of pure 
alcohol daily. But it must be remembered that there 
are idiosyncrasies as regards alcohol, and that what is 
harmless to one individual may be injurious to another. 
For thoroughly healthy people, alcohol in any form 
presents no advantages, and for children and young 
people it is decidedly injurious. 



CONDIMENTS. 

Vinegar is prepared by acetous fermentation from 
white wine or malt. It should contain from about 3 to 
5 per cent, of glacial acetic acid. It is largely adul- 
terated with sulphuric acid, which is injurious from its 
tendency to form insoluble sulphate of lime in the body. 
Copper is an occasional adulterant. Acetic acid is neu- 
tralised in the system by soda, and ultimately becomes 
transformed into an alkaline carbonate. 

Lemon and lime juice contain vegetable acids, chiefly 
citric, about 30 grains in a fluid ounce. They are most 
valuable antiscorbutics. 

These vegetable acids and their salts are also largely 
contained in all kinds of fresh fruit; but perhaps the 
chief advantage of fruit in a diet when taken early in 



366 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the day (before breakfast) is its tendency to promote 
evacuation of the bowels. 

Mustard is often adulterated with wheat flour and tur- 
meric; pepper with rice and sand. 

Pickles are now coloured with chlorophyll and vege- 
table colouring- matters. Formerly copper was used 
for this purpose. 

Sweetmeats and confectionery are now almost invariably 
sold free from any injurious colouring* matter. The 
coloration is imparted by careful heating- of the sugar, 
by which a variety of shades of yellow and brown may 
be obtained, or by the use of such harmless vegetable 
matters as saffron, turmeric, annatto (yellow), cochineal 
(red), logwood (violet), and chlorophyll (green). The 
use of the mineral and metallic salts for colouring pur- 
poses those containing iron, lead, copper, arsenic, 
chromium, and zinc is now hardly practised at all. 

An easy and rapid test for the separation of poisonous 
from harmless colouring matters may be applied as 
follows : Dissolve some of the sweetmeat in distilled 
water; if the colouring matter is soluble and is bleached 
on adding solution of sodium hypochlorite, it is organic 
and probably harmless. If the colouring matter is in- 
soluble and is not bleached by sodium hypochlorite, it 
is mineral and probably poisonous. 

The aniline dyes are but little used for colouring 
sweetmeats. They are soluble in alcohol and probably 
innocuous, if quite free from arsenic, which is usually 
the case. Picric acid (tri-nitro-phenol or carbazotic 
acid) a yellow dye, is, however, injurious ; and the 
same may be said of the yellow colouring matter de- 
rived from gamboge. 



EXERCISE. 367 



CHAPTER VIII. 

EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 
EXERCISE. 

THE effects of regulated exercise on the body are as 
follows : 

I. Increased force and frequency of the heart's action, 
and the free circulation of the blood throug-h all parts 
of the body. 2. The pulmonary circulation being quick- 
ened, more carbonic acid and water are taken to the 
lungs and eli?ninated. The amount of air inspired and 
expired is largely increased, and the oxygenation of the 
blood is consequently accelerated. 3. The action of the 
skin is heightened, and perspiration becomes marked; 
large quantities of sweat being poured out of the sweat 
glands. The evaporation of the sweat from the surface 
of the body regulates the temperature and prevents any 
rise above the normal. 4. The water and salt of the 
urine are decreased owing to the large cutaneous secre- 
tion, but the nitrogen (in the form of urea, uric acid, 
and extractives) is unaffected. In the period of rest 
following excessive exercise, the nitrogen elimination 
may be slightly increased. 5. The voluntary muscles 
are brought into active play ; the circulation of the 
blood through them is accelerated ; waste products are 
rapidly carried away for excretion ; whilst the material 
for new tissue is brought to them. 

It is thus seen that exercise, which means muscular 
action, involves more rapid combustion as shown by 



368 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the increased elimination of carbonic acid and water. 
Thirst and appetite are created, and water and carbona- 
ceous foods are taken to supply the waste; whilst an 
increased amount of nitrogenous food, during or after 
periods of exercise, is necessary, first to enable the 
muscles to enlarge and harden, and secondly to replace 
the waste caused by the nitrogenous tissues performing 
their function of regulating oxidation. 

Regular exercise in the open air is most essential to 
brain-workers, to purify the blood from waste matters, 
and to stimulate the action of the bowels. 

After active exercise the body should be well washed 
with soap and water to remove the secretion from the 
sweat and sebaceous glands, which, if left on to dry, 
becomes mixed with shed epidermic scales from the 
scarf skin, and renders the skin not only dirty, but also 
damp, from the excess of common salt in the sweat, 
which absorbs moisture from the air. The damp skin 
causes surface cooling and often gives rise to a danger- 
ous internal chill. 

If the exercise is too severe, breathlessness and pal- 
pitation are brought on, and the pulse becomes small, 
very frequent, and irregular. 

Prolonged exertion of a severe kind tends to cause 
cardiac pain and palpitation, and may give rise to 
hypertrophy of the left ventricle, if the over-exertion is 
habitual. Rupture of blood-vessels from over-exertion 
is uncommon before middle life. The muscles, including 
the cardiac muscle, require rest to get rid of the accumu- 
lated products of their action (possibly lactic acid), and 
to take in a fresh store of oxygen. Without definite 
periods of rest suited to the kind of exercise, the 
muscles become exhausted, and their contractions are 
gradually enfeebled, until they cease altogether. The 



EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 369 

diastole of the heart is quite sufficient for its recupera- 
tion when the body is at rest. 

The diet of men in training- should differ little, if at 
all, from an ordinary diet. The amount of fat and 
nitrogenous food may be somewhat increased out of 
proportion to the carbo-hydrates; but to deprive men 
of bread, potatoes, and vegetables, and to feed them 
on half raw beef-steaks as was formerly so largely 
done is a ready means of causing 1 the " staleness '' so 
well known to trainers. Plenty of water, in small 
quantities at a time, should be allowed as the system 
demands. After a few days of training- excessive thirst 
and excessive sweating- disappear, and the right 
balance between income and outcome of fluid is quickly 
struck. The capacity of the chest and the elasticity 
of the lung-s and chest walls are notably increased 
by regulated training-, especially by training- for 
rowing-. 

From numerous observations it has been deduced that 
an ordinary day's physical work for a healthy man is 
equivalent to 300 tons raised one foot (foot-tons). This 
is an amount of work which can be sustained day after 
day without loss of weight and without inconvenience. 
Work represented by over 400 foot-tons daily cannot 
be kept up unless the diet is much increased, and even 
then there is likely to be loss of weight and muscular 
vigour. It has been shown that a man walking on a 
level surface at the rate of 3 miles per hour does work 
equivalent to raising his own weight + the weight he 
carries through the distance walked. At this par- 
ticular rate the coefficient of traction or resistance is -fa ; 
at quicker rates of speed the coefficient more nearly 
approaches unity ; thus at 8 miles per hour the coeffi- 
cient is barely ^. 

BB 



, 



37O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The following- formula is useful for estimating- the 
amount of work done by a man in walking : 
Let W = weight of the man 
W' weight he carries 
D = distance walked in miles 
C = coefficient of traction (^ at 3 miles 

an hour) 
Then (W + WJ x D x 5280 = foot . ffi done . 

20 

walking the distance D at 3 miles an hour. This 
number divided by 2240 (the number of Ib in a ton) 
gives foot- tons; or generally the formula may be ex- 
pressed : 

(W + W) x D x 3280 x c = foot . tons . 

224O 

About 16 miles at 3 miles an hour, for a man weighing- 
160 Ib and carrying no weight, is an average day's 
work of 300 foot-tons. 



CLOTHING. 

The ordinary garments of civilised life are made 
either of one, or a mixture of two or more of the follow- 
ing materials : Cotton and linen from the vegetable 
kingdom; wool and silk from the animal kingdom. 

Cotton materials have a smooth, fine texture, but not 
equal in these respects to linen. Under the microscope 
cotton is seen to consist of flattened fibres with well- 
marked twists in their course. There are no joints or 
nodes and no branching fibres (fig. 64). 

Cotton garments are durable, and do not shrink in 
washing. They are non-absorbent, and rapidly conduct 
away heat ; hence cotton is the wrong material for 



EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 



371 



under-garments, for it soaks up the perspiration and 
becomes wet; and the moisture is re-evaporated, causing 
a chill to the surface of the body. The heat of the 
body is not retained by cotton, but is rapidly dissipated. 
A novel material called "cellular" cotton-cloth has 
lately been introduced, which obviates the last defect. 
In this material the fibres are so woven as to form cellu- 
lar air interspaces in the texture. Air being- a good 
non-conductor, the cellular cloth is much warmer than 
ordinary cotton clothing. Cotton materials are prefer- 
able to woollen for the outer clothing of sick and hos- 




FIG. 64. Cotton Fibres X about 200. 

pital nurses, as organic matters in the air cling far less 
easily to cotton than to wool, and they are more readily 
cleaned. 

Linen materials have a very fine, smooth, and close 
texture. Under the microscope, the fibres of linen are 
seen to be cylindrical and jointed, with minute branch- 
ing filaments at intervals (fig. 65). These latter are the 
elementary fibres of which the main fibre is composed. 
Linen is a good conductor of heat and a bad absorbent 
of moisture, like cotton, and is even an inferior material 
for under-clothing. 

Wool forms a valuable material for clothing. Under 

BB 2 



372 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



the microscope the fibres (fig-. 66) are seen to be 
rounded, colourless, unless dyed, with fine cross mark- 




FIG. 65. Linen Fibres X about 200. 
ings and reticulations in the border at the site of the 




FIG. 66. Wool Fibres X about 200. 

cross markings. There is a central longitudinal canal, 
but it is generally obliterated. The cross markings and 



EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 373 

reticulations are best seen in new wool. When the 
fibres are old and worn they are not so discoverable. 

Wool is a very bad conductor of heat, and is very 
absorbent of water and moisture, hence its value as a 
material for underclothing-. After exercise causing 
perspiration, the water is absorbed and retained by the 
wool, and the vapour is condensed, thus giving back to 
the body the heat rendered latent by evaporation from 
the surface of the skin. A woollen garment after 
exercise is therefore warm and dry, and prevents the 
chilling of the surface and the lowering of the tempera- 
ture by evaporation which is so dangerous. In hot 
climates especially, wool should be worn next the skin 
to ward off those chills which are so often the fore- 
runners of dysentery, diarrhoea, and ague. Being a 
non-conductor, wool is warm by preventing the dissipa- 
tion of the bodily heat. Its non-conducting properties 
are partly due to the wool-fibres themselves, which con- 
tain an animal oil in their substance, and partly to the 
air entangled in the interspaces. 

The disadvantages of wool are the hardening and 
shrinkage the fibres undergo when frequently washed 
(especially where soda and strong soaps are used), and 
the loss of absorbency resulting therefrom. The wool 
fibres being hygroscopic readily absorb organic vapours 
and dirt from the body, so that woollen under-garments 
require frequent but careful washing. They should be 
washed in soft cold or tepid water, with mild soap 
without soda, and should not be much wrung out. 
Flannel, which is a woollen material, is also often found 
to be too irritating to be worn next to a delicate skin. 

It has lately been discovered that the addition of a 
little kerosene or paraffin to the soap used for washing 
clothes, facilitates the removal of dirt, as less rub- 



374 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

bing- and wringing- of the clothes are then required ; 
but the clothes must be well rinsed after the washing 
and aired out-of-doors, or a slight odour of kerosene 
(when kerosene soap is used) is retained in the fabrics. 
The paraffin soaps are free from this defect. The 
grease and dirt cannot be removed from clothes (no 
more than they can be removed from the skin owing- to 
the fatty secretion from the sebaceous glands at the 
roots of the hair follicles) by merely washing in water 
without the use of soap. The alkali of the soap (soft 
soap is an oleate of potash ; hard soap is a stearate of 
soda) combines with the grease and emulsifies it, 
whereby it is easily washed off, whilst the fatty acid 
prevents the too great removal of the oil from the wool 
fibres and the deterioration of the fabric. Cheap soaps, 
containing an excess of alkali, are bad for the skin, 
for it is rendered over-dry and loses suppleness by ex- 
cessive removal of sebaceous secretion, and they are 
also injurious to woollen fabrics by carrying away the 
animal oil contained in the fibres. 

In Merino, wool and cotton are mixed in varying- pro- 
portions. " Shoddy " is old used and worked-up wool 
and cloth. 

Silk (fig. 67) is a bad conductor of heat, but is less 
absorbent than wool. It presents some advantages for 
under-clothing, as it is more cleanly and shrinks less 
than wool, and is less irritating to the skin ; but it can- 
not hold perspiration like wool. It is besides expensive, 
and is less durable than cotton or merino. 

Leather and Waterproof Material. These are invalu- 
able for exposure to very cold bleak winds and rain. 
Leather is most suitable for very cold climates. Being 
impermeable they are extremely warm, but this im- 
permeability prevents the ventilation and renewal of 



EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 375 

the layers of air confined under the clothing 1 near the 
skin. The discomfort that arises from the wearing of 
waterproofs in warm weather is well known. 

In hot climates the outer garments should be white or 
grey in colour to protect from the direct rays of the sun. 

At the two extremes of life in childhood and old age 
warmth of covering is most essential. Children lose 
heat rapidly and are liable to chill, partly because the 




FIG. 67. Silk Fibres X about 200. 

circulation being rapid more blood is carried in a given 
time to the superficial vessels, and more heat is thus lost 
from the surface, than in an adult ; but mainly because 
in children the surface of the body is larger in propor- 
tion to its bulk or contents, than is the case in adults. 
Consequently, a larger surface proportionally being 
exposed, from which heat can be radiated, children 
must be more warmly clothed than grown up people. 



376 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

A simple example will serve to illustrate the above fact. 
If two cubes are taken with sides of I square foot and 
two square feet respectively, it is evident that the 
smaller cube exposes a surface of 6 square feet, and has 
a bulk of I cubic foot; or surface is to bulk as 6 to I. 
The larger cube exposes a surface of 12 square feet, 
and has a bulk of a little less than 3 cubic feet ; or sur- 
face is to bulk as 12 to 3, or 4 to i. 

The same is true when applied to cylinders which 
more nearly resemble the human body. If two solid 
cylinders are taken, both 10 inches in length, but the 
smaller having a base I inch in diameter, and the larger 




FIG. 68. Hemp Fibres X about 200. 

abase 2 inches in diameter; in the smaller cylinder, 
surface is to bulk as 33 to 8 ; in the larger, surface is to 
bulk as 66 to 32. That is to say, the larger cylinder 
has 4 times the bulk of the smaller, but only twice the 
surface. 

Children should be clothed in woollen materials, and 
the legs, arms, neck, and chest should be equally pro- 
tected with the other parts of the body. 

In old age the circulation is often feeble and languid, 
and the functions of heat production and regulation 
are less efficiently performed than before senile decay 
commenced. Consequently if the body is chilled, the 



EXERCISE AND CLOTHING. 377 

restoration to the normal heat is slow, and the vital 
functions are dangerously depressed. 

Aniline dyes are now largely used for colouring- vari- 
ous dress materials and under-garments such as stock- 
ings. As a rule the dyes used are free from arsenic ; 
but it has occasionally happened that eczernatous sores 
have been produced on the feet and legs by wearing 
dyed stockings, and there can be but little doubt that 
the sores were due to the absorption of arsenic through 
the skin when the feet were hot and damp. 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE CONTAGIA : COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AND 
THEIR PREVENTION : HOSPITALS. 

THE CONTAGIA. 

CERTAIN diseases of men and animals have long- been 
known to be communicable from one individual to 
another, and recent investigations have shown that 
some of these diseases are not only communicable from 
one individual of the same species to another, but are 
interchangeable between animals and men, and be- 
tween men and animals. Various doctrines have been 
held at different times as to the nature of the contagia 
in these diseases, but the theory of their constitution 
which is embraced in what is known as the "gerriL 
j.heory of disease " need only be discussed here, as 
being the most recent enunciation of the scientific study 
of disease causation, and as possessing certain easily 
intelligible inherent possibilities which are absent from 
the earlier beliefs on this subject. Whilst endeavour- 
ing- to supply an explanation of such facts as are known 
about infection or contagion by the aid of the germ 
theory, it need not necessarily be assumed that any 
such doctrine is capable of satisfactorily explaining- 
every occurrence in disease dissemination, or that a 
finite settlement of a very profound and complex subject 
has been arrived at. It is more than probable that the 
future will bring- forth modifications and alterations in 
principle and detail, which will deprive the views, at 



THE CONTAGIA. 379 

present entertained, of much of that simplicity and easy 
intelligibility which is one of their chief recommenda- 
tions to popular favour. 

The germ theory, then, assumes that the contagia are 
microscopic living- particles, organised in structure and 
forjthe most part capable of independent life both within 
and without the animal body. These organic particles 
are believed to form part of that large class the schizo- 
mycetes, which embraces the lowest and least developed 
forms of organic life in the animal kingdom, and consti- 
tutes a link, as it were, between the two great divisions 
of the animal and vegetable world. To this class belong 
the bacteria, bacilli, micrococci, spirilla, vibrios, &c., 
which exist in such enormous numbers in the air, water, 
and soil in every region and climate, and to which, in 
conjunction with yeasts and moulds (fungi), the fermen- 
tative and putrefactive changes, to which all organised 
structures are more or less liable, have been ascribed. 

The probability of the view that the particles of con- 
tagia are really bacteriform organisms, is favoured by 
the analogy of the processes of typical infectious dis- 
ease in the human body to those of fermentation in an 
organic liquid. When the yeast plant obtains access 
to a saccharine fluid and the temperature is suitable, the 
cells of the yeast rapidly multiply, and after a certain 
time, which corresponds with the period of incubation 
in an infectious disease, changes are produced in the 
saccharine liquid, evidenced by the formation of alcohol 
and carbonic acid, which eventually render it incapable 
of being further acted upon by that particular ferment. 
So in infectious disease, there is a period of incubation 
which may be supposed to arise from the delay neces- 
sary for the growth and multiplication of the contagious 
particles; during the course of the fever the pabulum 



380 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

suitable for the nutriment of the contagion is exhausted, 
or else the products of the activity of the contagious 
particles upon the cells of the body become in time 
directly poisonous to the contagia themselves, the fever 
terminates, and the body is rendered unassailable by 
a similar infection for months or years, or until the end 
of life. 

It is evident that the contagion, once introduced into 
the animal body, grows and multiplies enormously. 
The least atom of infectious material serves to inoculate 
small-pox in a susceptible person, but the contagious 
matter produced in the course of the disease would be 
sufficient to inoculate many thousands. In each special 
disease the contagion multiplies chiefly in those tissues 
the mucous and epithelial which are more especially 
subject to its action, and the infection is cast off from 
the body in large part with the secretions of these 
tissues. Freed from the body the infection may be 
carried through the air from the diseased to the healthy, 
or it may lie dormant in the clothes or furniture of the 
sick-room for long periods, but retaining its contagious 
properties. 

This property, possessed by some of the contagia, of 
retaining unimpaired their powers of infection for long 
periods after leaving the body, points strongly in favour 
of their bacterial nature. It is known that many 
bacteria are propagated by sporulation, and that the 
spores, the immature forms of the adult species, can 
resist extremes of temperature and drying which are 
destructive to the fully -developed organism. That 
liquids, gases, or any non-living material whatever, 
could retain infective properties for long periods after 
expulsion from the body, when subjected to the dis- 
integrating forces of the atmosphere, is at least highly 
improbable. 



THE CONTAGIA, 381 

In other cases the contagion leaves the body in the 
excretions of the bowels or possibly of the kidneys, and 
is propagated, not so much through the air, as by 
means of water or food to which the evacuations may 
have gained access. Whether under these circum- 
stances the contagia can grow and multiply outside 
the animal body, as they undoubtedly do within it, is a 
point not yet definitely settled, but of which primd facie 
there is a very considerable likelihood. 

In yet a third class, the contagion does not appear to 
be capable of retaining an independent existence out- 
side the animal body. In these cases the infection is 
conveyed by direct contact i.e., by inoculation from the 
the diseased body to the tissues of the healthy. It is 
probable that all, or nearly all, the communicable 
diseases are inoculable, although the usual method of 
dissemination is, as the case may be, by air-borne or 
water-borne infection. 

It is not desirable to retain the term contagious, as 
distinct from infectious, in regard to the communicable 
diseases. For if, as is generally understood, the term 
contagious is limited to those diseases which are only 
transferable by direct inoculation, and infectious to 
those that have air- or water-borne contagia, an 
element of confusion is introduced ; for most of the in- 
fectious diseases are inoculable, whilst the diseases 
which are generally spread by inoculation, may at times 
be propagated through air or water. The term zymotic 
is usually limited to those communicable or infectious 
diseases which occur in epidemics; but here again, as 
zymotic commits us to' the theory that the disease is 
dependent upon a living organised body of the nature 
of a ferment, it is not easy to understand why zymotic 
should not embrace the whole class of ailments in 



382 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

which a germ or microbial origin is considered 
probable. 

The use of the word specific as applied to these 
diseases pre-supposes a specific origin for each an 
origin, that is to say, from a pre-existing case of the 
disease by means of a specific virus or organised living 
germ. The specific origin of a majority of the com- 
municable diseases can hardly be doubted. The erup- 
tive fevers are specific, they breed true, i.e., a case of 
measles, for instance, cannot give rise to mumps or 
whooping-cough, but only to measles, and the infection 
cannot arise de novo, but must be sought for in a pre- 
existing case. The true specificity of some, however, 
such as diarrhoea, dysentery, and the hospital fevers 
(erysipelas, pyaemia, &c.) may be doubted, as it is at 
least probable that such diseases can at times arise from 
ordinary decomposition of organic matters, untainted 
with the virus of a pre-existing case. 

In the following table the communicable diseases are 
tabulated according to their more general mode of 
propagation by means of contagion carried in the air, 
or in water, or transmitted by direct inoculation. 

The diseases in Class A include those usually known 
as the eruptive fevers, and are remarkable chiefly for 
occurring in epidemics, often at regularly recurring 
periods. The contagion being disseminated through 
the air, it is easy to understand how these diseases, 
once introduced into a community, spread with amazing 
rapidity, until the diminution of susceptible persons 
causes the epidemic to languish and finally die out. 

Class B comprises diseases which at times take on 
epidemic extension and virulence but are mostly en- 
demic ; that is to say, they are habitually present in 
certain localities where conditions of excremental pollu- 



THE CONTAGTA. 383 

tion of water, air, or soil, favour the passage of the 
specific virus from one individual to another, with the 
constant occurrence of isolated or sporadic cases, which 
at certain seasons when external conditions are favour- 
able, give rise to the sudden and wide-spread dissemin- 
ation termed an epidemic. The introduction of public 
water supplies into towns has, no doubt, tended to cause 
certain epidemics of enteric fever and cholera to reach 
further and spread wider than formerly; for if a public 
water supply is specifically polluted at its source, the 
contagion is carried to a far larger number of house- 
holds than could possibly be the case where each house 
has its own well or spring. 

The evidence as to the communicability of tubercular 
diseases including the destructive lung diseases, does 
not yet amount to complete proof, but is sufficiently 
strong to warrant the belief that the tubercular virus, 
under certain favouring conditions, retains its infective 
properties after discharge from the animal body, and 
can then be transferred to healthy persons through the 
medium of the air. The question of susceptibility, 
hereditary or acquired, to the tubercular virus is of 
the greatest interest, and is deserving of most careful 
investigation. It is evident that tubercle bacilli must 
be very widely scattered in the air of houses and towns, 
and yet the number of persons who contract tubercle 
is relatively infinitely small compared with the numbers 
that must from time to time be exposed to the contagion. 
Unlike the eruptive fevers, tubercular diseases run no 
definite course; and although it is now certain that 
recovery from tubercular lesions of the lungs, and per- 
haps of other organs, is by no means infrequent, yet 
there is no immunity conferred from subsequent attack, 
as in the case of the diseases in Classes A and B, with 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



the probable exceptions of erysipelas, diphtheria, epi- 
demic pneumonia, and dysentery. 

The diseases in Class C are more generally trans- 
ferred from the sick to the healthy by means of inocula- 
tion than by any other method. 

In Class D are included those fevers of hospital origin, 
which pass rapidly from patient to patient, provided 
there is a surface lesion or wound for the absorption of 
the virus (pyogenic organisms of various kinds), which 
are therefore extremely contagious, but absolutely non- 
protective against subsequent attack. 

From the tabulated list there have been omitted 
oriental plague, dengue, cerebro-spinal meningitis, and 
other diseases of tropical climates not met with in this 
country. 

Co m m unicdble Disuses. 



Small-pox 
Scarlet Fever 


.s 


/Yellow Fever 

. <u I Cholera 


03 C -- 

o-"" ^? Erysipelas 


Measles 
Rotheln 
Mumps 


"1*1 

9 

U.2 


E / Enteric Fever 
.a Dysentery and 
\ Diarrhoea -. 


!i! Pyasmia 

.2 8 . g Septicaemia 


Chicken-pox 
Whooping-cough 




M 

Anthrax or Malig- 


J^-S Hospital Gan- 


i Influenza 


>* 


nant Pustule 


Jbc"5 grene 


Typhus 
Relapsing Fever 


t, 


Foot and mouth 
Disease 


^ S'J3 " 1 Puerperal Fever 
w 


Diphtheria 


*c3 G 


Leprosy 




Erysipelas 


M -_2 


Glanders 




Epidemic Pneu- 




I Rabies or Hydro- 




monia 


1- 1 


phobia 


"V 




ii o 

MC 


Vaccinia 


Tubercle (Scro- 




rt "* 


Ophthalmia ^ 






I 


Syphilis 
Gonorrhoea 


fula, Lupus . 






Tetanus 





The subject of bodily susceptibility to the action of 
the various contagia, requires a passing notice. It is 
evident that in infancy and childhood the bodily sus- 
ceptibility to various contagia is very great, and this 
susceptibility diminishes with advancing age. The pro- 



THE CONTAGIA. 385 

tective influence of a previous attack in some diseases, 
the modifying influences of the state of health of the in- 
dividual, of hereditary predisposition, and of individual 
or family idiosyncrasy, are well known to produce 
different conditions of bodily susceptibility; and there 
are other causes at work, less well known, but possibly 
equally potent. A plausible hypothesis as to the causes 
of these varying susceptibilities is the supposition that 
under these different conditions the vital actions of the 
body are not always equally potent to resist the invasion 
of the contag-ia. There is the battle of the cells of the 
body and the bacteria, in which victory lies to the 
strongest; the weakness of the cell forces in certain 
cases constituting the special susceptibility to the action 
of the virus. 

The microbial origin of some of the communicable 
diseases may be considered to be established beyond 
doubt, and this fact is a strong argument in favour of 
the remainder in which no such connection has as 
yet been positively traced being causally dependent 
upon specific micro-organisms. Koch has laid down 
certain conditions, upon the proof of which alone can 
it be definitely stated that a particular micro-organ- 
ism is the cause of a certain disease. They are as 
follows: 

1. The micro-organism must be found in the blood, 
lymph, or diseased tissues of man, or animal, suffering 
from or dead of the disease. 

2. The micro-organisms must be isolated from the 
blood, lymph, or tissues, and cultivated in suitable media 
outside the animal body. These pure cultivations must 
be carried on through successive generations of the 
organism. 

3. A pure cultivation thus obtained must, when intro- 

cc 



386 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

duced into the body of a healthy animal, produce the 
disease in question. 

4. In the inoculated animal the same micro-organism 
must again be found (E. Crookshank, Bacteriology}. 

It is evident that postulate no. 3 being inapplicable to 
human beings, the complete sequence of proof cannot 
be arrived at in the case of solely human diseases. But 
in the case of the diseases interchangeable between 
men and the lower animals, inasmuch as the animals 
can be submitted to processes of inoculation, the entire 
chain of proof can be substantiated, and is held to be 
equally applicable to the disease in man. The list of 
diseases of the lower animals, which are dependent 
upon specific microbes for their origin and propagation, 
is now very extensive, including fowl cholera (micro- 
coccus cholerse gallinarum), malignant oedema, pyaemia, 
septicaemia, and various suppurative diseases in rabbits, 
guinea-pigs, mice, &c., swine-fever (bacillus), foot and 
mouth disease (streptococcus), and many others. 

To distinguish different specific bacteria from one 
another, microscopic appearances of size and shape 
the morphology must not be relied upon alone ; but 
the reaction to staining fluids, and more especially the 
appearance and pigmentation of the growth of a pure 
cultivation in sterilised nutrient media such as broth, 
peptone-gelatine, agar-agar, or blood serum, and the 
temperature at which the growth takes place, must be 
largely relied upon. 

The diseases of animals common to man, in which a 
specific bacterium has been isolated are anthrax (malig- 
nant pustule in man), tubercle, glanders, actinomycosis, 
erysipelas, and diphtheria. 

* Perhaps scarlet fever should now be included as a disease inter- 
changeable between men and cows, see p. 334. 



THE CONTAGIA. 387 

^Anthrax, malignant pustule, nr wonl-znrtefs disease. The 
specific microbe is a bacillus with a curved or wavy 
outline and of large size, so that it is readily seen under 
moderate powers of the microscope. They are deeply 
stained by aniline dyes, and readily form spores when 
exposed to the air, which are very resistent to extremes 
of heat and drying-, and to chemical reag-ents, unlike 
the fully developed bacilli. The bacilli are found in 
enormous numbers in the blood of animals dead of 
anthrax. 

The disease is imparted to men engaged in handling 
the wool or hides of infected animals, either by direct 
inoculation of a wound or abrasion on the face and 
hands, which gives rise to the malignant pustule ; or by 
inhalation of the dust, containing spores, into the mouth 
or lungs when general infection of the system follows, 
usually proving fatal in the course of a very few days. 
The symptoms of general infection are usually obscure, 
and appear to depend upon the organ with which the 
virus first comes in contact. If the dust is swallowed, 
the stomach and bowels are chiefly affected ; if inhaled, 
the lungs. Bacilli are found in the serum of the pus- 
tule, in the various secretions, and in the blood after 
death. 

Animals infected with anthrax should be at once 
slaughtered and their bodies burned. If buried, the 
carcase should not be opened, but left whole, as there is 
less likelihood of spore formation taking place ; the 
bacilli themselves are probably destroyed by the putre- 
factive bacteria when decomposition has set in. The 
bacilli are present in large numbers in the discharges 
of infected animals, and undergo multiplication with 
spore formation in the surface layers of the soil, so that 
the strictest disinfectant measures are necessary to avoid 

CC2 



388 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the spread of the epizootic through a herd of cattle or 
sheep. 

In this disease as in some others such as chicken- 
cholera, rabies, and swine fever, the virus can be atten- 
uated by cultivating the bacillus at high temperatures 
(42 C. or 43 C.) in sterilised nutrient media for a 
varying number of days, or by growing it in medicated 
gelatine corrosive sublimate i part, gelatine 40,000 
parts (Klein). When cultivated at 42 C., the bacilli 
produce no spores, and the intensity of their virulence 
decreases day by day. This attenuated virus (or it may 
be the waste products of its metabolism), when inocu- 
lated into susceptible animals, inhibits the growth of the 
specific microbes when introduced into the body, and is 
so found to confer immunity for a time from the disease 
in its virulent form. The same result can be attained 
when the bacillus from one species of animal is passed 
through a different species. If the bacillus of sheep or 
cattle is inoculated into mice, the organisms taken from 
the mouse are attenuated for sheep and cattle, and con- 
fer immunity from subsequent attack. 

Quite recently mice have been rendered immune 
against anthrax virus by injection of an albumose (a 
proteid body) isolated from cultures of the anthrax 
bacilli, of whose metabolism it is no doubt a waste 
product (Hankin). 

Tubercle. The bacillus tuberculosis is found in all 
tubercular deposits, and is seen with a high power of 
the microscope to consist of small, usually curved rods. 
They readily undergo spore formation. The bacilli are 
found in the sputa of phthisical patients; and in man the 
disease is set in action by the bacilli introduced, accord- 
ing to the usual method, through the mucous membrane 
of the lungs or intestinal canal, or occasionally by direct 
inoculation into a wound or abrasion of the skin. 



THE CONTAGIA. 389 

In the lower animals (monkeys, cattle, fowls, guinea 
pig's, rabbits, &c.), artificial tuberculosis can be readily 
produced by inhalation of a spray containing- tubercle 
bacilli, by feeding- experiments with tuberculised food, 
and by direct inoculation, the channels of infection being- 
the same as those of man. 

Glanders. The bacillus of g-landers (bacillus mallei] 
consists of rods about the size of tubercle bacilli. The 
inoculation of pure cultivations into horses produces the 
characteristic disease, the bacilli being found after death 
in the affected organs and diseased tissues. In man the 
disease is set up by inhalation of the infected breath or 
nasal secretion of a diseased horse, or by direct inocula- 
tion into an abrasion of the skin. 

Actinomycosis. This is a disease of the jaws and some- 
times of the lungs in cattle, characterised by the forma- 
tion of hard nodular tumours, and is occasioned by the 
actinomyces or ray-fungus. The disease is transmissible 
in cattle by inoculation, and is, very rarely, imparted to 
man, when the lungs seem to be primarily affected, new 
formations appearing and rapidly breaking down. 

In erysipelas a streptococcus has been found occupying 
the lymphatics of the skin at the circumference of the 
erysipelatous blush. A pure cultivation of the strepto- 
cocci produces erysipelatous inflammation when inocu- 
lated into animals and into men, as has been done for 
the relief of lupoid and cancerous affections. 
Roux and Yersin have isolated a bacillus from the 
surface of the mucous membrane in cases of diphtheria. 
From cultivations of this bacillus a soluble poison has 
been obtained, which causes the symptoms of diphtheria 
in varying degrees of intensity according to the dose. 
This poison is not an alkaloid a ptomaine but ap- 
pears to be allied to the ferments, as it is precipitated 



3QO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

by alcohol, and therefore cannot be of alkaloidal nature. 
It may possibly be an albumose. 

There are some other diseases, whose microbial origin 
is not yet definitely established, but in which there is a 
very strong- probability of such a mode of occurrence. 
Chief among these is leprosy. In this disease fine rod- 
like bacilli, many of which have spores, are found in 
enormous numbers in the tubercular lesions. They 
probably spread through the body by means of the 
lymphatics, as they are not found in the blood. The 
inoculability of the virus of leprosy has lately been 
held to be demonstrated by the case of a condemned 
criminal in the Hawaiian Islands, who, to save his life, 
submitted to the operation in November, 1885, and is 
now reported to be a confirmed leper; but this \ievv 
must be received with caution, as the latest information 
shows that an hereditary taint of leprosy existed in the 
criminal's family. 

From vaccine lymph a streptococcus has been isolated, 
which is believed to be the specific organism of vaccinia ; 
from acute abscesses, boils, carbuncles, the abscesses of 
pyaemia, acute osteo-myelitis, and puerperal fever, the 
staphylococcus pyogtnes aureus and albus have been obtained, 
which are pathogenic to certain animals; a bacterium 
(pneumococcus) has been found in the exudations ot 
croupous pneumonia, which is pathogenic to mice; in 
ulcerative endocarditis a micrococcus has been observed 
in the endocardial ulcerations; in Asiatic cholera, Koch 
discovered a comma-shaped bacillus in the intestinal 
walls and evacuations; in enteric fever, bacilli have 
been recovered from the inflamed Peyer's glands; in 
relapsing fever, a motile spirillum {spirillum Obermeien) 
has been found in large numbers in the blood during 
the relapses, which is absent in the non-febrile periods, 



THE CONTAGIA. 3QI 

and which, when inoculated into monkeys, induces a 
disease analogous to human relapsing fever; and in 
malaria, a bacillus has been described by Klebs as 
being present in the blood of ague patients, which is 
also found in soils known to be malarious. A strepto- 
coccus is believed to be the specific microbe of scarlet 
fever (Klein) ; in cases of tetanus a bacillus has been 
isolated; and various micro-organisms have been 
described as associated with other diseases. 

With the exception ot scarlet fever, relapsing fever, 
leprosy, suppurative and septic diseases, which rest 
upon a surer basis, there is still wanting, in the case of 
all these diseases, the complete chain of experimental 
proof necessary to establish the causal relationship of 
the organisms which have been described as associated 
with them. The experimental inoculation of the lower 
animals with the supposed viri of human diseases to 
which they are not known to be naturally liable, affords 
little or no assistance to the completion of the proof, 
even if symptoms are produced in the animal of an ana- 
logous nature to those characteristic of the disease in 
man. The constant association of a certain organism 
with a certain disease, in all climates and races of men, 
is, no doubt, practically a strong point in favour of the 
specific nature of the microbe, but logically it does not 
prove that the microbe is an indispensable antecedent 
(cause), or even an antecedent (one of several causes in 
conjunction) of the disease, or indeed that it is anything 
more than a consequence. 

Recent research seems to point to the symptoms of 
infectious disease being caused not directly by the 
action of the microbes themselves upon the tissues, but 
by the production of soluble poisons of the nature of 
alkaloids (ptomaines), albumoses, or chemical ferments. 



3Q2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Observations have already been made in the cases of 
anthrax, tetanus, diphtheria, puerperal fever, and rabies, 
that these diseases are or may be caused by the spe- 
cific microbes producing, as the result of their activity? 
soluble poisonous alkaloids, albumoses, or ferments 
which exert a direct action upon the tissues of the 
body; and if such is the case in these diseases, the 
symptoms of many others of an allied nature may also 
be due to the chemical products of the microbes, and 
not to the direct action of the microbes themselves upon 
the tissues. There is a matter of practical interest in- 
volved in this point, for although the microbes them- 
selves may be destroyed by boiling or other application 
of heat, their chemical products may be able to resist 
these high temperatures, and retain their poisonous 
powers unimpaired. Still, as far as our knowledge at 
present extends, the microbes, although only the makers 
of the poisons which directly affect the body, are the 
principal or only means of spreading infection. 

On the introduction, then, of the microbes of specific 
disease within the body of an animal, we may assume 
that poisonous products are sooner or later produced. 
Whether the disease will develope, and what form of 
mildness or severity it will assume, appears to depend 
upon the powers of the white corpuscles or leucocytes 
of the bodily fluids to grapple with these toxic products. 
Should the animal have already undergone preventive 
inoculations with attenuated virus, it appears that the 
leucocytes, having already become accustomed to the 
microbic poisons, are able to struggle with and devour 
the parasites on their entrance, and the disease is not 
developed. 

The decline of an infectious disease is very probably 
connected with the accumulation in the body of the toxic 



THE CONTAGIA. 3Q3 

products of the microbes, which tend in time to destroy 
their life and activity; for we know that putrefactive 
bacteria produce, by their action upon albuminous sub- 
stances, certain antiseptics, amongst which are cresol, 
indol, skatol, and compounds of phenol, which destroy 
these organisms, and the reasoning may be extended 
by analogy to the pathogenic microbes. 

Preventive inoculations may be made with attenuated 
virus, i.e., with cultures of the microbes weakened by 
exposure of successive generations to heat, not sufficient 
to destroy them altogether, or by growing the microbes 
in culture media medicated with some antiseptic, or by 
passage of the microbes through animals of different 
species; or the inoculations may be made with the solu- 
ble chemical poisons produced by the virus during its 
growth in nutrient media. Preventive inoculations by 
the latter means alone have already been carried out in 
the case of anthrax, chicken cholera, diphtheria, and 
mouse septicaemia; and the attenuated virus of rabies 
(Pasteur's method) is probably only the chemical pro- 
ducts of the microbes growth, and not any form of the 
microbe itself. This method of chemical vaccination 
has only recently been studied, but competent authori- 
ties believe that in it lies the future of protective inocu- 
lation, and that further research wilt enable definite 
chemical compounds to be produced, which under some 
conditions may be made to give rise to the symptoms of 
disease in their acutest forms, and under others produce 
acquired immunity. 



394 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 
Small-pox and Vaccination. 

The incubation period of small-pox is about 12 days; 
when the virus has been inoculated, the incubation is 
shorter only 7 or 8 days. Small- pox is communicable 
from the earliest appearance of the symptoms, and the 
ordinary duration of infectiveness is from 3 to 4 weeks. 
There can be little doubt that the contagion is most 
active, and the infectivity greatest, during the period of 
maturation and crusting of the pustules. The virus is 
contained in the breath of the patient and in the skin 
eruptions, and may be conveyed for considerable dis- 
tances through the air in the dried epithelial scales and 
pus cells from the crusted pocks. 

The exceptional incidence of small-pox in the imme- 
diate neighbourhood of some of the London smallpox 
hospitals (investigated originally by Dr. Thome Thorne), 
in which were formerly treated during epidemic periods 
large numbers of cases, many of them in the acute 
stages, can admit of but one explanation, viz., that when 
a sufficient number of cases in the acute stages are 
collected together in one building on a small area of 
ground, the hospital becomes a centre of infection to the 
surrounding neighbourhood, the virus being almost cer- 
tainly transmitted through the air by means of currents 
of air and winds. In the diagram (fig. 69) taken from 
Mr. Power's Report to the Local Government Board, 
1885, the neighbourhood around the Fulham Small- 
pox Hospital is divided into special areas by circles 
of J, \, f, and i mile radii. In these special areas, the 
figures show the percentage of houses in each area 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 



395 



invaded by small-pox in the period May 25, 1884, to 
September 26, 1885. The extreme incidence of the dis- 
ease in the quarter mile circle surrounding- the hospital 
is at once apparent. The exceptional incidence in the 




FIG. 69. Fulham Small-pox Hospital : Special area divided into 
sections of J, |, , i mile radius ; showing in different areas number 
of houses (out of every 100) invaded by small-pox, in the period, 
May 25, 1884, to Sept. 26, 1885. 

quadrant lying- S.E. of the hospital is noteworthy, and 
may possibly be attributed to the greater prevalence of 
N.W. winds during- the period included. But it should 
be stated that this central quarter mile circle, contain- 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

ing-, as it did, only a few hundred houses, was some- 
what exceptionally liable to be capriciously affected. 

Dr. Barry's report on the small-pox epidemic at 
Sheffield shows that the small-pox hospital, situated in a 
thickly populated locality in the centre of the town, was 
also instrumental in disseminating the disease through 
the " special area" surrounding the hospital, as soon as 
a number of acute cases were concentrated in it. But 
when the patients were removed to a new hospital 
erected outside the borough, the excessive incidence of 
the disease upon the area surrounding the old hospital 
disappeared. Whether small-pox in this case was trans- 
mitted aerially or by personal communication could not 
be decided, as the faulty administration of the hospital 
might have allowed the transmission of small-pox by 
the persons of the hospital officers, or of visitors to the 
hospital. 

The contagion clings persistently to infected clothing, 
bedding, and furniture, and is often communicated by 
means of these infected articles. 

In recent times, small-pox appears to have a tendency 
to become epidemic in a community once every 10 years 
or so. Before the introduction of vaccination, small-pox 
epidemics occurred once every 3 years and possibly 
oftener, and were attended with a fatality and injurious 
consequences, such as loss of eyesight, which it is diffi- 
cult at the present time to realise. 

Like many other specific infectious diseases, small-pox 
has a special seasonal prevalence (see diagram, p. 398, 
fig. 70). From observations covering a long period of 
years it has been possible to describe a curve showing 
the weekly mortality of this disease as a percentage 
above or below the mean mortality for the year. From 
the diagram it will be seen that the average London 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 397 

mortality is greatest during" the first six months of the 
year, rising- to a maximum towards the end of May and 
falling through June, until it descends below the mean 
line where it fluctuates during the last six months, to 
again rise in December or January. 

Small-pox is a disease of every climate and every 
race, and attacks all ages and both sexes unprotected 
by a previous attack or by vaccination. It arises solely 
from the contagion of a previous case, and although its 
severity may be intensified by uncleanly and over- 
crowded houses and insanitary surroundings, as is the 
case with all infectious diseases, it cannot be originated 
by any such conditions. It is probable that during 
epidemic periods small-pox is very frequently spread by 
the number of mild and not easily recognisable cases of 
the modified disease in vaccinated persons that invari- 
ably occur. The virus from such mild forms is capable 
of imparting a very virulent form to unvaccinated per- 
sons, and the same holds true of nearly all infectious 
diseases. The mildest types often propagate contagion 
of the most virulent description. 

Previous to the discovery by Jenner, towards the end 
of the last century, of the protection afforded by the 
inoculation of cow-pox lymph against the attacks of 
small-pox, small-pox was a disease from which few 
escaped. From 1750 to 1800 small-pox caused nearly 
one-tenth of the total number of deaths (96 out of every 
1000 deaths from all causes), and in epidemic years 
1796 for example this fatality was occasionally nearly 
doubled. So universal was the disease, and so frightful 
its disfiguring effects and the risk of loss of sight, that 
the practice of inoculation, introduced originally from 
Constantinople by Lady Mary Montagu, became very 
general during the latter half of the i8th century. The 



398 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 




COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 3QQ 

fatality of the disease so imparted was found to be much 
less than that of natural small-pox 2 or 3 per cent, of 
the cases ending fatally instead of 20 or 30 per cent. ; 
but the infection was enormously multiplied all over the 
country, and the epidemics became more frequent than 
ever. 

Jenner published the result of his researches in 1798, 
and since that time vaccination has made steady pro- 
gress throughout all classes of the population with the 
result of gradually diminishing the frequency of epi- 
demics, the severity of the disease, its incidence on 
the population, and its death-rate. In 1838 gratuitous 
vaccination was provided, and in 1853 vaccination be- 
came compulsory for all infants above the age of 3 
months; but it was not until 1871 that Boards of 
Guardians were obliged to appoint public vaccinators 
for their districts. From 1838 to 1853 the death-rate 
from small-pox in England and Wales averaged 0*42 
per 1000 persons living; from 1854 to the present time 
the average is not more than O'2 per 1000. At the 
same time the proportion of small-pox deaths to deaths 
from all causes has fallen gradually from nearly 100 
per 1000 (or y 1 ^) in the last century, to an average of 
about 10 per 1000 (or T ^Q) fro the year of compulsory 
vaccination to the present time (1890). The average 
death-rate from small-pox in the last century was pro- 
bably not less than 3 or 4 per thousand. During the 8 
years 1881-88 the average death-rate in England was 
only 0*05 per 1000. 

This great decline in the mortality from small-pox is, 
however, entirely confined, as regards the last 40 years, 
to the early periods of life (under the age of 10). 
Under the age of 5 years the death-rate from small-pox 
has even been reduced 80 per cent, in the last 30 years. 



400 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

But above 10 years of age the death-rate has increased, 
and has indeed largely increased at all ages subsequent 
to 15 years. The explanation is obvious. Compulsory 
vaccination in infancy has saved the lives of an enor- 
mous number of children, who formerly died of small- 
pox, and has served to reduce the death-rate from 
small-pox at all ages. After the age of fifteen the 
protective influence of the primary vaccination has to a 
large extent disappeared, and unprotected adults form a 
larger proportion of the population than in the earlier 
periods, when an attack of small-pox in childhood was 
far more common. 

It was at first thought that one vaccination afforded 
protection to the individual against small-pox for the 
rest of life. This is now known not to be the case, with 
regard to infantile vaccination at least. In the first 
place, the efficacy of vaccination depends largely upon 
the efficiency of the operation and the number and 
character of the resulting scars. Secondly, the protec- 
tive influence wears away with the lapse of time, and re- 
vaccination at or before the age of puberty is a measure 
whose utility cannot be doubted. Calf-lymph and that 
from a vaccine vesicle of the 8th day from a healthy 
infant, if used perfectly fresh, are probably capable of 
giving equally good results. 

The protective effects of vaccination have been 
studied chiefly in relation to the fatality and severity 
of the disease in the vaccinated and unvaccinated. But 
this, it must be remembered, is only one side of the 
question, and the relative incidence of the disease on 
these two classes, is deserving of study. The exact 
proportion of unvaccinated to vaccinated in the com- 
munity is not exactly known, but taking it at its highest 
figure, the unvaccinated cannot form more than 5 per 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 



401 



cent, of the total population. On the other hand, the 
unvaccinated certainly form not less than 30 per cent, 
of the cases treated in small-pox hospitals, and the 
proportion of severe and haemorrhagic cases is far 
larger amongst the unvaccinated than the vaccinated. 

The fatality of the disease in the two classes is illus- 
trated in the diagram, founded on figures supplied by 
Dr. Collie for the two epidemic years of 1871 and 1881, 
of cases treated in London small-pox hospitals (fig. 71 ) t 



UNDER 15 YEARS. 



35 

30 
25 

Z/i 

in 



0- 



OVER 15 YEARS. 
38 



-M 
-35 

-3 
-.25 
-.20 
-i/J 




ABODE A B r D 

FIG. 71. Small-pox epidemics, 1871, 1881. Mortality per cent, in 
Fever Hospitals (London). 
J 5 + 15 

(386) (174) A = unvaccinated. 
(222) (483) B = one or more bad marks. 
(76) (141) C = one good mark. 
(44) (151) D = two good marks. 
(70) (100) E = three good marks. 

Under 15 years of age and over 15 years, the mortality 
per cent, of cases in the unvaccinated is nearly identical, 
viz., 37 or 38 per cent. ; whilst under 15 the influence of 
the number and character of the scars in the vaccinated 
is seen to be of not nearly so much importance as over 

DD 



4O2 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

15. The evanescence of the protective influence of 
primary vaccination after the age of 15 is thus well ex- 
hibited ; for whereas one or more bad marks reduces 
the mortality to 4 per cent, under 15, over 15 the mor- 
tality of cases with one or more bad marks is 10 per 
cent. 

Re-vaccination at puberty, if properly performed, 
confers almost absolute immunity from small-pox for 
the remainder of life, and if by any chance a re-vaccin- 
ated person should acquire small-pox, the disease 
assumes its mildest type. In Prussia, since the year 
1874 when vaccination and re- vaccination became com- 
pulsory, the death-rate from small-pox has been reduced 
to T ^ of ite former rate, viz., from 0-24 per 1000, to O'O2 
per 1000; and it is stated that in the Prussian Army 
there has not been a single death from small-pox from 
1874 to the present time. 

The operation of vaccination, if properly performed 
with clear fresh lymph, does not impart any other 
disease but vaccinia. Erysipelas has been stated to 
have been caused by vaccination, but this might have 
happened in any other operation involving a surface 
lesion, and is certainly a very uncommon sequence of 
vaccination. The inoculability of syphilis with vaccinia, 
where the lymph is taken from a syphilitic child, is 
theoretically possible, but as a matter of practical 
moment, with the precautions everywhere taken, such 
an occurrence is almost impossible. 

It is probable that if vaccination is performed on a 
person who has already contracted small-pox, within 48 
hours of the exposure to contagion, vaccinia ensues and 
small-pox is avoided. But if performed at a later date 
small-pox is contracted, modified if within 3 days, but 
unmodified if later, with vaccinia possibly running its 
own course at the same time. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 403 

The evidence in support of the view that cow-pox is 
human variola modified by its occurrence in the cow 
is somewhat conflicting-, experimental observations on 
the production of vaccine vesicles in the cow by inocula- 
tion with human variolous matter having 1 usually failed. 
Whatever the original origin of cow-pox in the bovine 
species, it is certain that the disease is now transmitted 
directly from animal to animal, and that its origin from 
human small-pox is an event of very rare occurrence, if 
it ever happens at all. 



Scarlet Fever. 

This is a specific infectious disease like small-pox, its 
propagation being dependent upon a specific contagium 
derived from a previous case of the disease, if we 
except its possible origin from a certain diseased condi- 
tion of cows and probably other animals. The incuba- 
tion period of scarlet fever is short, probably not more 
than 2 or 3 days, or even less than 2 days. Infection is 
given off in the breath and from the skin of the patient 
during the whole period of illness, but the acute stage 
of the fever, when the sore-throat and rash are most 
highly developed, is probably the most infectious, and 
not the desquamative stage as generally supposed. The 
contagion clings with great pertinacity to the clothes, 
bedding, and furniture of the sick room, but is not capa- 
ble of diffusion and dissemination through the air without 
loss of virulence like the small-pox contagium. The 
usual duration of infectiveness in scarlet fever is from 6 
to 8 weeks, lasting throughout convalescence, and possi- 
bly prolonged by the occurrence of'renal or other com- 
plications. In large towns, scarlet fever epidemics tend 

DD 2 



404 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

to recur every few years as a fresh series of susceptible 
children become exposed to the contagion. 

Scarlet fever is more especially a disease of childhood. 
The influence of age, sex, and season upon the incidence 
and fatality of the disease has been elucidated by the 
Registrar-General (Annual Report for 1886), Dr. 
Whitelegge, Dr Longstaff, Dr. Ballard, and other 
observers. The facts may be thus summarised : 

The mortality from scarlet fever is greatest in the 3rd 
year of life, and after this diminishes with age, at first 
slowly and afterwards rapidly. This diminution is due 
to (i) the increased proportion in the population at each 
successive age-period protected by a previous attack ; 
(2) the diminution of liability to infection in successive 
age-periods of those who are as yet unprotected ; (3) 
the diminishing risk in successive age-periods of an 
attack, should it occur, proving fatal. The liability of 
the unprotected to attack is small in the first year of life, 
increases to a maximum in the 4th or 5th year, and then 
becomes rapidly smaller and smaller with the advance 
of years. The chance that an attack will terminate 
fatally is highest in infancy, and diminishes rapidly with 
years to the end of the 25th year, after which a well- 
marked attack is again somewhat more dangerous. 
The female sex throughout life is more liable to scarlet 
fever than the male sex, but the attacks in males, though 
fewer, are more likely to terminate fatally. 

The proportion of fatal cases to attacks of scarlet 
fever cannot be accurately stated, owing to the large 
number of unrecognised cases of very mild type, often 
without skin eruption and with very little desquamation. 
If all such cases of infectious sore throat without eruption, 
which are by no means uncommon in adults or those who 
have been partially protected by a previous attack, could 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 405 

be included, the case mortality (proportion of deaths to 
attacks) would probably be found to be not greater than 
i or 2 per cent. These very mild and unrecognised 
cases are, doubtless, most frequent sources of dissemina- 
tion of infection, and the fact of their being true scarlet 
fever cannot be doubted. 

For the 10 years 1871-80, the death-rate from scarlet 
fever per 1000 living at all ages was about o - 7. Under 
5 years the death-rate was 3^5 per 1000; between 5 and 
JO years it was 1-5 per 1000, decreasing in the next 
quinquennium to 0^32 per 1000. During the eight years 
1 88 1 -88 the average death-rate in England from scarlet 
fever was 0-36 per 1000 living at all ages. 

Unlike small- pox in unprotected communities, scarlet 
fever is a disease from which very many people alto- 
gether escape. The importance of saving young children 
from attacks of scarlet fever has been well expressed by 
Dr. Whitelegge. 

" In shielding a child against infection during the first 
few years of life there is a double gain ; every year of 
escape from scarlet fever renders him less and less sus- 
ceptible, until finally he becomes almost insusceptible; 
and, secondly, even if he should ultimately take the 
disease, every year that the attack is deferred reduces 
the danger to life which it brings. In other words, at- 
tacks of scarlet fever become both less severe and less 
frequent with every year of age after the fifth. Up to 
the fifth year the liability is less (than in the fifth year), 
but the risk to life in case of attack is very great." The 
same reasoning applies with almost equal force to 
measles, whooping-cough, and the other infectious com- 
plaints of childhood. 

* Age, Sex, and Season in relation to Scarlet Fever. Transactions 
of the Epidemiological Society, vol. vii. 



406 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Overcrowding" and insanitary conditions in houses 
tend to aggravate the severity of scarlet fever attacks, 
and possibly aid in their dissemination, but can have no 
influence per se in originating- an outbreak. 

Scarlet fever is most prevalent and most fatal in the 
autumn, in the months of October and November. Two 
curves may be formed ; one expressing- the weekly or 
monthly deaths as percentages of the average weekly 
or monthly mortality throug-hout the year (fig-. 70); 
the other expressing the number of weekly or monthly 
cases as percentages of the weekly or monthly average 
of cases throughout the year (fig. 72). These curves 
correspond very closely, but Dr. Whitelegge has noted 
that the mortality-curve rises less and falls less above 
and below the mean than the case-curve which would 
imply that when most prevalent scarlet fever is least 
fatal and vice versa. There is, at least, a strong pro- 
bability in favour of this view, as the number of mild 
cases is usually greatest when scarlet fever is most 
prevalent. 



Measles. 

A specific infectious fever with an incubation period 
of 9 to 12 days. The contagion is given off from the 
breath and skin of the patient during the whole period 
of illness (3 or 4 weeks), and the catarrhal stage pre- 
ceding eruption is especially infectious. It is for this 
reason that epidemics of measles are so difficult to con- 
trol. The infection is not widely diffusible in the air, 
but clings to clothes and garments with a persistency 
little if any less than that of scarlet fever. 

Measles is a disease of infancy and early childhood, 
and is very fatal to young children, chiefly owing to the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES, 



407 




408 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

frequency of pulmonary complications and sequelae. 
Adults unprotected by a previous attack are also sus- 
ceptible, but the disease is so universal in this country 
that few children escape from it. The mortality from 
measles is greatest under 3 years of age ; after 5 years 
of age the mortality is enormously diminished. During 
the 10 years 1871-80, the death-rate from measles 
averaged about 0-38 per loco living at all ages ; under 
5 years of age the death-rate was 2-5 per 1OOO, and 
between 5 and 10 years only 02 per 1000. In the 8 
years 1881-88, the average death-rate in England from 
measles was 0-42 per IOOO living at all ages. Both 
sexes are equally liable to attack, and the case-mortality 
is about the same for both. In this disease the case- 
mortality, or proportion of deaths to attacks, is greatly 
affected by overcrowding and insanitary conditions 
generally. In the overcrowded houses of the poor, 
amongst badly nurtured children, the proportion of 
deaths to attacks may be as much as 20 or 30 per cent., 
and is, no doubt, intensified by the neglect of the 
parents to provide suitable warmth and nourishment for 
the sufferers from a disease which they think of little 
moment. In healthy houses, well nourished children 
almost invariably make a good recovery. 

Measles is most prevalent and most fatal in the winter 
months of November, December, and January; but it 
also tends to become somewhat intensified in the late 
spring (May and June), see p. 398, fig. 70. 

Measles epidemics tend to recur in large towns about 
every 3 or 4 years, with the fresh appearance of suscep- 
tible children. 

Rolheln, Rubella, or German Measles. This is a specific 
infectious fever, propagated by a specific contagium, 
and not a hybrid between measles and scarlet fever, 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 409 

from either of which diseases it is entirely non-protec- 
tive. It has an incubation period of 10 to 14 days, and 
is infective during the whole course of illness (7 to 14 
days). It is not a disease of common occurrence, and 
the illness produced is almost invariably very mild. It 
is probable that children and young- adults are most 
susceptible. 



Whooping- Cough. 

This is a specific infectious disease, the infection being- 
given off in the breath and secretions from the lungs. 
It is probably not carried far in the air, but clings per- 
tinaciously to articles of clothing. The period of in- 
cubation may last from I to 3 weeks, and the period of 
inlectiveness is usually not less than 6 weeks from the 
onset of cough, and may be longer. 

Infants and young children are specially susceptible, 
and few escape attack. The younger the child the 
greater is the likelihood of the attack proving fatal ; 40 
per cent, of the mortality from whooping-cough occurs 
in the first year; 30 per cent, in the second; 15 per 
cent, in the third ; 6 per cent, in the fourth, and so on 
(Squire). Girls suffer more proportionally from severe 
attaks than boys. In the first two years of life the pro- 
portion of deaths to attacks cannot be less than 10 per 
cent., and is probably higher. After the third year this 
proportion is not more than 2 per cent. Adults seldom 
suffer, as the protection afforded by an attack in child- 
hood is so universal; but if unprotected they are equally 
liable with children. 

Whooping-cough is now the most fatal of all the in 
fectious complaints of childhood under the age of 5 
years. For the period 1871-80, the death-rate was 36 



4IO HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

per 1000 under 5 years of age (scarlet fever being 3-5) ; 
and the death-rate for all ages was 0-5 per 1000. Be- 
tween 1 88 1 and 1888 the death-rate for all ages aver- 
aged 0-44 per 1000. 

Whooping-cough occurs in regularly recurring epi- 
demics every few years, but it has an exceptional 
prevalence and fatality in the spring. The seasonal 
curve attains its maximum late in March or early in 
April, and from that point rapidly declines (see p. 398, 
fig. 70). 



Typhus. 

A specific contagious disease, but almost invariably 
found to be associated with conditions of filth and over- 
crowding in large towns amongst poor working class 
populations. 

The usual period of incubation is a week. The infec- 
tion is contained in the exhalations from the lungs and 
skin, and is transmitted through the air from the sick to 
the healthy; but it is rapidly destroyed by dilution with 
fresh air, and does not cling to articles of clothing, so 
that in a well-ventilated house typhus rarely spreads 
from the original case. The female sex and the period 
of 10-25 years appear most susceptible, but neither sex 
nor age are protected from attack. A case of typhus 
may spread infection for 3 or 4 weeks subsequent to the 
onset of the disease. 

Being so closely associated with overcrowding, typhus 
increases in intensity during cold weather and during 
periods of want, when there is an inducement for many 
people to huddle together to keep warm. In some of 
our large towns, epidemics recur in certain poverty- 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 4! I 

stricken quarters with considerable regularity, as fresh 
susceptible cases arise. 

The mortality from typhus has undergone an enor- 
mous diminution in this country during the last 20 years. 
Before 1869, typhus, enteric fever, and simple continued 
fever were included together in the Registrar-General's 
returns under the generic heading of "Fever;" but 
since that date, mortality returns of these three diseases 
have been presented separately. In 1869 the death-rate 
from typhus in England was O'I93 per 1000 living at 
all ages; between 1881 and 1888 the average typhus 
death-rate was only 0-020 per 1000; that is to say, it 
has fallen to -*- of its former rate in the space of 20 
years. 

Simple continued Jever is, probably, in a large majority 
of cases, a convenient term for the registration of deaths 
due to undiagnosed and obscure cases of fever, such as 
may occur in typhus, general tuberculosis, septicaemia, 
pneumonia, and intermittent fever. Dr. Longstaff is 
of opinion that only a very small proportion of these 
deaths, if any, are due to enteric fever (Epid. Soc. Trans. 
1884-5). Simple continued fever, as a cause of death, 
exhibits a decrease in the last 20 years closely analo- 
gous with that of typhus (1869, death-rate was 0^24 
per 1000; 1888, death-rate was 0-015). This decrease 
is, no doubt, largely due to greater precision in dia- 
gnosis, but may, to a certain extent, be due to the 
diminishing prevalence of a definite disease. 



Diphthtria. 

The etiology of this disease is still veiled in obscurity. 
Whilst, on the one hand, it cannot be doubted that 



412 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

diphtheria is contagious, the contagion being trans- 
mitted from the sick to the healthy; on the other hand, 
diphtheria outbreaks at times appear to originate inde- 
pendently of the infection of a pre-existing case, and to 
be causally related with the effluvia arising from decom- 
posing animal or vegetable substances, or with exces- 
sive moisture of soils or sites of houses. It must be 
remembered, however, that the diphtheria contagion 
probably has the power of lying latent for long periods 
of time, with the capacity of renewing its virulence 
under suitable conditions of environment, and that, as 
in the case of enteric fever, mild and unrecognised 
forms of the disease may deposit the virus in the most 
unlikely localities. When roused again into action, 
with the production of a diphtheria outbreak, such an 
occurrence might well be believed to have originated 
de novo. 

Diphtheria occurs endemically in certain localities, 
epidemic extensions taking place from time to time. It 
is a matter of observation that certain rural districts 
in which the soil is cold and humid, and where damp 
houses and drainage nuisances abound, are particularly 
favoured by diphtheria. Until lately it was regarded as 
being to a far greater extent a rural than an urban dis- 
ease ; but the continuous steady increase of the disease 
in London and its suburbs (in 1888 the death-rate was 
0-3 per 1000), as well as in many other urban districts, 
is evidence that it finds a suitable soil for development 
in towns, despite the drainage of the subsoil water by 
sewerage and the presence of smoke in the air factors 
hitherto believed to be of importance in its prevention. 

The incidence of the disease is most marked on 
children between the ages of 2 and 10 years, and subse- 
quently decreases with every year of advancing age. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 413 

During- the 10 years 1871-80, the average death-rate in 
England from diphtheria was 0*12 per 1000 living- at all 
ages; under 5 years the death-rate was 0^47 per 1000; 
and between 5 and 10 years 0-29 per 1000. In the 8 
years 1881-88, the average death-rate from diphtheria 
was O'K per 1000 living- at all ages. As a rule, the 
younger the child the greater the chance of an attack 
proving fatal. 

School attendance is a very potent factor in the 
spread of diphtheria. At the commencement of an 
outbreak, apparently simple cases of tonsillitis are in- 
strumental in disseminating the disease ; and there can 
be but little doubt that these cases, although unrecog- 
nisable as such, are either true examples of diphtheria, 
or that a virus is developed in the course of such simple 
cases of sore-throat that is capable of propagating the 
contagion in its most virulent condition. 

Diphtheria epidemics are occasionally inextricably 
mixed up with outbreaks of scarlet fever and measles. 
The occurrence of scarlet fever and measles appears to 
greatly predispose the sufferer to become receptive of 
the diphtheria contagion, which may be present in a 
locality together with the poison of either of the other 
diseases. There is no reason to believe that diphtheria 
is in any way interchangeable with scarlet fever or 
measles, in the sense that the infection of one disease 
may produce the other. The diphtheritic contagion is 
given off from the body in the breath and secretions 
from the mouth and throat, and although probably not 
far diffusible in the air, clings with great pertinacity to 
infected articles of clothing and bedding. 

As is the case in some other infectious maladies, there 
appears to be in certain individuals a peculiar hereditary 
or family susceptibility to attacks of diphtheria. The 



414 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

incubation period is usually of a few days duration, not 
less than two or more than twelve days. The duration 
of infectiveness is from six to eight weeks, extending 
throughout the whole period of illness. It is doubtful if 
one attack is protective or not. 

An affection of the throat in many respects similar to 
human diphtheria, has been noticed as occurring in 
cats, pigeons, fowls, and other animals, during periods 
of epidemic prevalence of this disease. It is quite 
possible that the domestic animals, which live in close 
association with human beings, may in this way be a 
means of propagating the disease. 

The supposed specific microbe of diphtheria, and the 
chemical products of its activity in the tissues, have 
been already alluded to (p. 389). 



Asiatic Cholera. 

Cholera is endemic in the delta of the Ganges, and 
probably also in other parts of India and the Orient. 
Epidemic extensions take place from time to time, the 
disease being imported from these "homes of cholera" 
into far distant countries, by sea or overland, by means 
of persons suffering from or recovering from it, or 
possibly by means of infected articles. 

The usual mode of propagation of cholera is through 
drinking water. The specific poison is contained in the 
copious bowel discharges of the sick, and may find its 
way through the soil on which the dejecta are thrown 
into streams, wells, or tanks. It is also possible that the 
contagion is at times transmitted through the air, either 
by the dried choleraic discharges being borne into the 
air by currents of wind, or by emanations from the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 415 

ground air of a soil soaked with the specific evacuations. 
Temperature and moisture are controlling 1 factors of 
great importance. When the disease is imported into 
a temperate climate, the intensity of the epidemic is 
invariably felt in the late summer and autumn, and dies 
away with the approach of cold weather, possibly to 
again acquire epidemic intensity in the following sum- 
mer. It is evident, therefore, that the specific virus can 
only attain its true virulence where the temperature of 
the air and, therefore, of the soil is sufficient. The 
combination of moisture and heat of soil characteristic 
of the Ganges delta, appears to offer the most suitable 
environment for the cholera virus. 

Koch's comma bacillus has now been found in the 
typical rice-water evacuations of many cases of Asiatic 
cholera. The bacillus presents certain features, when 
cultivated in nutrient media, which serve to distinguish 
it from all other allied organisms; and a pure cultivation 
inserted into the ileum of a guinea-pig, which had been 
rendered torpid with loss of peristalsis by injection of 
opium, has produced symptoms of a choleraic nature. 
The bacillus does not develop spores, and is destroyed 
by drying and chemical disinfectants. It may be re- 
garded as pathognomic of the disease; and its presence 
when detected in the stools may be considered as suffi- 
cient to establish the diagnosis of Asiatic cholera a 
result of Koch's labours of the very highest practical 
importance, as it will now be possible to make a diagno- 
sis of sporadic or doubtful cases imported into a cholera- 
free country, and thus prevent at the outset the intro- 
duction of the poison. 

Dr. Lauder Brunton has .pointed out that the sym- 
ptoms of cholera very much resemble those of mus- 
carine poisoning; and recent research tends to show 



4l6 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

that these symptoms are due to the action of a chemical 
poison which may act independently of the microbes 
(comma bacilli) which produce it. 

The incubation period of cholera is usually very 
short one or two days; but it may occasionally be 
prolonged to ten days or more. The evacuations are 
most infective during" the height of the disease ; and it is 
believed that the specific virus (bacilli) may multiply, 
after leaving- the body, in water or soil of suitable tem- 
perature. 

In epidemic periods the proportion of deaths to 
attacks is greatest during the period of maximum in- 
tensity of the epidemic. When the epidemic is first 
commencing, and after it has begun to subside, the 
recoveries may considerably exceed the deaths in num. 
ber. During the height of the epidemic the proportion! 
of deaths to attacks is very much greater. 



Enteric Fever. 

Typhoid or enteric fever, excepting its possible origin 
from a cow disease, is a specific disease dependent for 
its propagation upon a specific virus. It is not always 
possible to establish the dependence of an outbreak on 
a pre-existing case; but it is not necessary for this 
reason to assume that the disease can originate inde- 
pendently from decomposition of organic filth apart 
from the infection of a previous case seeing that the 
contagion may undoubtedly have a long period of 
latency with diminution or loss of virulence, which can 
again be roused into action .under special but unknown 
combinations of circumstances. Besides this, enteric 
fever is often a mild disease and unrecognised by the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 417 

patient himself, who goes about his ordinary avocations 
unaware that he is spreading contagion broadcast. 

The period of incubation is usually a long one, from 
14 to 21 days, but the limits as to its duration are not 
accurately known. The infection is contained in the 
stools during the whole period of illness (4 to 8 weeks 
or longer); and the virus, which may possibly be the 
bacillus isolated by Klebs and other observers, is trans- 
mitted from the sick to the healthy, chiefly by means of 
drinking water, but occasionally through the air. In 
enteric fever, as in cholera, it would appear probable, 
that at the moment of leaving the body the specific 
contagion is not possessed of its greatest degree of 
virulence, but that outside the body the virulence in- 
creases as the microbe (if such it be) finds conditions of 
environment suitable for its growth and multiplication. 
Otherwise these diseases would be far oftener trans- 
mitted to the nurses and attendants on the sick, and 
to sufferers from other diseases in the same hospital 
wards, than is the case in clean and well-regulated 
establishments. 

Enteric fever is not a disease of universal occurrence 
like small-pox in unprotected communities. Many 
people appear to be insusceptible to the infection ; but 
of this a partial explanation is offered by the possibility 
that the disease may have been contracted in childhood, 
when it is often mild and unrecognisable, and that, as a 
rule, one attack confers immunity for the remainder of 
life. No age and neither sex are free from risk of 
attack, but the period of 15 to 25 years appears to be 
specially prone to suffer. 

During the period 1871-80, the mortality from enteric 
fever in England and Wales was at the rate of 0-32 per 
1000 living at all ages; but the death-rate from this 



418 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

disease has undergone for a long 1 period, and is still 
undergoing 1 , a steady and sensible diminution year by 
year. In 1869 (the first year in which enteric fever 
returns, as separate from " fever," are obtainable) the 
death-rate was 0*39 per 1000; whilst in 1888 the death- 
rate was only 0-17 per 1000, a reduction of more than 
half. The average death-rate for the 8 years 1881-8 
was 0*2 per 1000. This result may be attributed to. the 
improvements in water supply, sewerage, and domestic 
sanitary arrangements throughout the country generally, 
that have been so marked a feature in the social pro- 
gress of the latter half of this century. 

The proportion of deaths to attacks in enteric fever 
cannot be accurately stated, owing to the number of 
mild cases that escape recognition. In typical cases 
the mortality varies from 15 to 25 per cent, of the 
attacks. In early life the type of the disease is less 
severe than in adolescence and adult age. 

Enteric fever is most prevalent and causes the largest 
number of deaths in the late autumn. The seasonal 
curve (see p. 398, fig. 70) founded on the weekly deaths 
expressed as a percentage of the average weekly deaths 
in a year, is seen to rise in August and attain its maxi- 
mum late in October or early in November, from which 
point it gradually falls. In our large towns a hot and 
dry summer often tends to aggravate the intensity of the 
autumnal rise; and this fact, together with its special 
seasonal prevalence, appear to point to a high tempera- 
ture being necessary for the proper development of the 
specific poison in stagnant sewer deposits or polluted 
subsoils, and for the attainment of its greatest degree of 
virulence. It must be remembered that the earth at a 
few feet from the surface heats much less rapidly than 
the air, and that the highest annual temperature in the 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 419 

soil is not attained until late in the summer or early in 
autumn. 



Dysentery and Diarrhoea. 

Diarrhoea is of course merely a symptom of very 
many diseases. But in the sense here understood, it 
means those acute attacks of illness of which the diar- 
rhoea is the most prominent symptom, which occur so 
frequently in persons of all ages, but more especially in 
infants and young- children towards the middle or close 
of a hot dry summer. The diarrhoea is in many cases 
of a choleraic nature accompanied by cramps, spasms, 
and signs of collapse, and appears to be due to the 
consumption of tainted food, or of impure water, or to 
the breathing of fouled air. The putrefactive changes 
which occur in food and fouled water or soil, are all 
more rapid and intense under the influence of a high 
temperature; and it is quite reasonable to believe that 
these diarrhoeal attacks are due to the action of the 
bacterial agents of putrefaction, or of their products, 
when taken into the system. Recent research on this 
subject also tends to support such a view (see p. 423). 

Dysentery arises in a very similar way, and is, no 
doubt, merely an accentuated form of the disease with a 
tendency to become chronic, incidental to a tropical 
climate. The effect of chilling of the body, on which 
so much stress has been laid, is probably to increase 
the susceptibility of the system to the entrance of the 
poison from without. Attacks of dysenteric diarrhoea 
with discharges of blood and mucus ptr rectum, are occa- 
sionally associated with outbreaks of diarrhoea in this 
country. 

Although it is unquestionable that dysentery and acute 

2 



42O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

diarrhoea in the vast majority of cases appear to arise 
de novo, independently of the contagion of a previous 
case, yet it is also as certain that the diarrhoeal evacua- 
tions help to spread the disease in certain cases. It is 
not impossible that the diseased process may originate 
a specific poison within the body, which on evacuation 
has an infective virulence not inferior to the enteric 
fever or cholera poison, 

From the seasonal curve for diarrhoea (fig. 73) it will 
be seen that the mortality begins to increase about the 
middle of June, rises rapidly to its maximum at the end 
of July or early in August, and falls somewhat less 
rapidly throughout August, September, and October. 

A most exhaustive and excellent report by Dr. 
Ballard upon the " Causation of the annual mortality 
from diarrhoea, which is observed principally in the 
summer season of the year" has been recently issued. 
The following is a very brief epitome of Dr. Ballard's 
observations. 

The summer rise of diarrhoeal mortality in the large 
towns does not commence until the mean temperature 
recorded by the earth thermometer, placed 4 feet below 
the surface, has attained somewhere about 56 F. no 
matter what may have been the temperature previously 
attained by the atmosphere, or recorded by the i-foot 
earth thermometer. The maximum diarrhoea mortality 
of the year is usually observed in the week when the 
4-foot earth thermometer attains its mean weekly maxi- 
mum. The diarrhoea mortality declines with the 4 foot 
earth thermometer ; and this decline takes place very 
much more slowly than that of the atmospheric tem- 
perature or of the i-foot earth thermometer, so that the 

* Supplement to Report of Medical Officer of the Local Govern- 
ment Board for 1887. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES, 



421 




422 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

mortality from epidemic diarrhoea may continue long 
after the air temperature has fallen, even into the 4th 
quarter of the year. 

The soils most favourable to a high diarrhoea mor- 
tality are those of sand, gravel, or marl, in which the 
constituent particles are small but freely permeable by 
air and water, and which contain organic matters of 
animal origin from "made ground," from manured sur- 
faces, or from soak age of excretal refuse from privies, 
cesspools, and sewers. The soil must be moist, but the 
moisture must not be sufficient to preclude the free 
admission of air between the interstices, e.g., soils in 
which the subsoil water stands sufficiently near the 
surface to maintain by capillary attraction the dampness 
brought about by previously greater nearness of the 
water to the surface, or marly soils containing clay 
sufficient to imprison enough of the water saturating it 
at some time previously. The moisture of the soil may 
arise from surface water sinking into the earth around 
houses, as well as from the subsoil water from below. 

Other factors conducive to a high diarrhoea mortality 
are crowding of houses on area, so that they have 
deficient light and external ventilation, the building of 
houses back-to-back, and the keeping of milk and other 
foods in underground cellars exposed to telluric emana- 
tions, or in pantries liable to the entry of drain or sewer 
air. 

As previously stated, the disease is mainly one of 
early childhood (0-5 years), but its incidence is by far 
the greatest on hand-fed infants. The attacks are 
usually extremely sudden in their onset; and that diar- 
rhoea is merely one symptom or feature of the illness, is 
shown by the fact that many of the organs of those who 
have succumbed are found to be highly degenerated, 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 423 

more especially the kidneys, the liver (fatty degenera 
tion), and the spleen. The lungs too are often the seat 
of pneumonic inflammation. Dr. Klein has failed to 
find anything- in the tissues, blood, or excreta of these 
cases, to indicate that the malady is due to a microbe 
developing within the alimentary canal or permeating 
any of the tissues. But in certain groups of cases of 
epidemic diarrhoea, the disease is apparently communi- 
cable from person to person by means of the exhalations 
from the stools, and Dr. Ballard believes that in the 
excretions of such cases a specific micro-organism may 
possibly be found. 

The following provisional explanation of the occur- 
rence of epidemic diarrhoea is offered by Dr. Ballard : 
"That the essential cause of diarrhoea resides ordin- 
arily in the superficial layers of the earth, where it is 
intimately associated with the life processes of some 
micro-organism, not yet detected, captured, or isolated. 

That the vital manifestations of such organism are 
dependent, among other things, perhaps principally 
upon conditions of season, and on the presence of dead 
organic matter, which is its pabulum. 

That, on occasion, such micro-organism is capable 
of getting abroad from its primary habitat, the earth, 
and having become air-borne, obtains opportunity for 
fastening on non-living organic material, and of using 
such organic material both as nidus and as pabulum in 
undergoing various phases in its life history. 

That in food, inside of, as well as outside of the 
human body, such micro-organism finds, especially at 
certain seasons, nidus and pabulum convenient for its 
development, multiplication, or evolution. 

That from food, as also from the contained organic 
matter of particular soils, such micro-organisms can 



424 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

manufacture, by the chemical changes wrought therein 
through certain of their life processes, a substance which 
is a virulent chemical poison. 

That this chemical substance is, in the human body, 
the material cause of epidemic diarrhoea." 

During the decennium 1871-80, the death-rate in 
England and Wales from diarrhceal diseases was 0-93 
per 1000 living at all ages. Under 5 years of age, the 
death-rate was 57 per 1000; and although this high 
rate is largely contributed to by the improper nourish- 
ment and feeding of infants, there can be no doubt that 
insanitary conditions, of the kinds named above, play a 
large part in its production. For the 8 years 1881-8, the 
average death-rate in England from diarrhceal diseases 
was 076 per 1000 living at all ages. 



Rabies. 

Rabies is a specific disease of which the virus pro- 
bably a microbe has not been known to be transmitted 
otherwise than by inoculation, i.e., by the bites of rabid 
animals. The virus, therefore, may be considered to be 
capable of undergoing multiplication only in the animal 
body, and to suffer complete loss of virulence when cast 
off from the body. It is certainly rendered inert by 
exposure to drying and extremes of temperature. All 
animals are susceptible to rabies, and the virus is always 
present in the saliva of rabid animals ; during its deve- 
lopment in the wolf and cat it appears to acquire 
specially virulent qualities. 

Whilst in man the usual period of incubation after the 
infliction of a bite by a rabid dog is somewhere about 

* Probably one of the alkaloidal Ptomaines. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 425 

6 weeks, it may be as short as 6 days or as long- as 2 
years (Horsley). The rabic virus is chiefly contained 
in the nervous centres, and it is presumed that the dis- 
ease only shews itself when these centres are attacked 
by the virus. This view explains the unequal length of 
the incubation period in different cases the incubation 
period being- governed by the time taken by the virus to 
travel from the point of inoculation up to the central 
nervous system, and for its development therein. If the 
virus travels up the nerves the incubation is long, but 
if conveyed in the blood stream the incubation may be 
very short. 

In man, rabies or hydrophobia is now recognised as 
assuming two forms: (i) a mainly explosive one, cha- 
racterised by convulsions and the symptoms usually 
recognised as hydrophobic ; (2) a mainly paralytic 
form, unattended by the frightful sufferings of the first 
form, but far less common (Horsley). The same ob- 
server gives the death-rate among persons bitten by 
indubitably rabid dogs as on the average about 15 per 
cent. ; that is to say about 85 per cent, of the persons 
bitten are insusceptible, or at least escape the action of 
the virus, for rabies once developed is almost invariably 
fatal. 

M. Pasteur has elaborated a system of treatment by 
protective inoculations, which promises to render hydro- 
phobia with its terrible sufferings a thing of the past. 
Shortly, it may be described as follows: The spinal 
cord of a rabid rabbit, which like all parts of the 
central nervous system contains the virus, is submitted 
to a drying process at a temperature of 25 C., for a 
certain number of days (3 to 14). By this means the 
virulence of the virus (microbe) is destroyed, but waste 
products of its metabolism are obtained, which inhibit 



426 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

the growth of fresh rabies virus. The injection of this 
protective substance into the body of a person bitten 
by a rabid animal prevents the development of the 
rabies poison. That this is indeed the truth, is evident 
from the fact that persons who have been bitten by 
indubitably rabid animals, and have submitted them- 
selves to the Pasteur treatment within a few days of the 
infliction of the bite, have almost invariably escaped. 
The death-rate, instead of 15 per cent, in the unpro- 
tected, is only 1-36 per cent, in the protected. For 
ordinary bites the inoculations start with the fourteen 
days dried cord and end with that of three days. For 
more dangerous wounds the number of inoculations is 
greater, and the use of the recent cords is more rapidly 
brought into operation. This is the "intensive" treat- 
ment, which is used in severe cases bites on naked 
parts and wolf bites. Nearly all the individuals treated 
by M. Pasteur, who have succumbed to the disease, 
developed it during the fortnight following the com- 
mencement of the inoculation, owing to the fact that 
in their case the virus probably passed in the blood 
stream to the nervous centres very soon after the in- 
fliction of the bite. (Rabies, by Victor Horsley, F.R.S., 
Epid. Soc. Trans., 1889). 

In this country rabies is spread by infected dogs ; 
where muzzling regulations and the slaughter of stray 
dogs has been enforced, the disease is rapidly extermin- 
ated. These regulations have, so far, been very par- 
tially and locally enforced, with the result that rabies 
still lingers in some districts, from which it tends to 
spread into neighbouring localities as yet unaffected, 
or .already freed from the disease by the preventive 
measures adopted. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 427 



Contagious Ophthalmia. 

There are two kinds of contagious eye disease, the 
grey granulations (Trachoma) and purulent conjunc- 
tivitis ; but the former also appears to predispose the 
sufferer to take the latter. These diseases are not 
uncommon in industrial schools and barracks, which 
are badly ventilated, and where the inmates are not 
supplied with separate basins and towels for ablution. 
They are chiefly transmitted from the sick to the healthy 
by inoculation of the eyes with the secretions and dis- 
charges left on linen and towels; but it is also probable 
that the contagion is carried through the air in dried 
epithelial or pus cells. 

The ophthalmia caused by gonorrhceal infection of 
the eyes, and the ophthalmia neonatorum, inoculated from 
purulent vaginal discharge, are especially virulent and 
destructive forms of eye disease. In all forms of puru- 
lent ophthalmia a pyogenic micro-organism is probably 
the active cause of the disease. 



THE PREVENTION OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 

In the olden times epidemical diseases were either 
regarded as the result of witchcraft or as visitations 
from the Almighty, according as the mind of the ob- 
server was philosophically inclined to look to all human 
events as the result of the interposition of an omnipotent 
power working for the evil or for the good of the 
human race. Superstitions of this sort being very 
deeply seated, it is needless to say that, in a more 
or less modified form, they survive to the present day 
amongst the unlettered and uncultured. 



428 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

A more exact knowledge of the causes of disease 
enables us to attribute contagious diseases, whether 
occurring epidemically or not, to the regular workings 
of natural laws in a definite and established order of 
sequence. Knowing the causes, it is not difficult to 
devise means to prevent the spread of contagious dis- 
ease by, so to speak, throwing out of gear the natural 
sequence of events in their propagation. 

In the first place the susceptibility of the individual may be 
modified (i) by protective inoculations which inhibit the 
growth of the specific organism, should it at any time 
gain an entrance into the body. At the present time 
protective inoculations of this description are only feasi- 
ble in the case of small-pox, rabies, and anthrax. In the 
not remote future it may be expected that such inocula- 
tions will become possible for all the contagious dis- 
eases. But whether it will be desirable that such a 
practice should become general, must necessarily de- 
pend upon the risks to health or life attaching to it, 
upon the chance of suffering from the disease in point 
to which the individual is exposed, and upon its severity 
when contracted. The practice of vaccination is sound, 
because small-pox is a disease of universal occurrence 
from which few unvaccinated persons can hope to 
escape, and is especially fatal and severe in its effects. 
But no one would think of being inoculated for diseases 
of such rare occurrence as anthrax or rabies. 

(2) The susceptibility of the individual to tubercle and 
possibly other diseases (erysipelas, epidemic pneumonia, 
diphtheria, hospitalism, ophthalmia) may be decreased 
by all those measures which are concerned in the pro- 
motion of the public health by good drainage, by pure 
air, by pure water, by sufficiency and wholesomeness of 
food, and by unpolluted soils. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 429 

Such measures may be regarded as actually pre- 
ventive of malaria, yellow fever, cholera, enteric fever, 
dysentery and diarrhoea ; and they are most effective 
in modifying 1 the severity of the specific eruptive fevers, 
although they only indirectly affect their occurrence and 
propagation. 

In regard to this last class, which occur for the most 
part in regularly recurring epidemics, it is of the great- 
est importance that the epidemic should be stamped out 
at the first onset, before the infection has had time to 
become widely spread. This can only be attained by a 
system of compulsory notification ot all infectious diseases 
to the sanitary authority of the district. It will then be 
possible to isolate the first case or cases of the disease 
as they occur, to destroy the infection already gene- 
rated, and to control the movements of the individuals 
with whom the sick persons may have come into con- 
tact. Without compulsory notification, it must almost 
necessarily happen that the disease obtains headway 
before it is recognised, and then the most persevering 
efforts too often fail to obtain such a control as will 
prevent its widespread dissemination. 

The isolation of all cases of contagious disease must be 
regarded as a most desirable measure, but is absolutely 
indispensable in the case of the epidemic diseases with 
air-borne contagia, if it is hoped to limit their spread. 
The same applies to the septic contagious diseases of 
hospitals. Diseases of the enteric fever class and tuber- 
cular diseases are rarely isolated, but it is probable 
that such a measure would have a considerable effect 
in limiting their spread. The more usually inoculable 
diseases with the exceptions of leprosy, where segre- 
gation of the sick should be rigidly enforced, and of 
contagious ophthalmia do not seem to demand mea- 
sures of isolation. 



43O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

To prevent the importation of a disease into an un- 
affected country by quarantine most usually resorted to 
to exclude Asiatic cholera, yellow fever, plague, or other 
oriental diseases is not in this country regarded as 
useful or practicable. The interference with commerce 
and national intercourse, the horrors to which the de- 
tained persons are exposed in quarantine camps or on 
board-ship with fever or cholera raging during their 
period of seclusion, and the uncertainty attaching to the 
period of incubation and its maximum duration in these 
diseases, are all reasons why the enforcement of rigid 
quarantine has given way to the more humane and 
rational system of isolation of the sick as soon as they 
arrive on the frontier or (in our case) seaboard, and of 
disinfection of the infected articles and of the whole 
ship, with observation of the movements of all the per- 
sons who leave the ship for the period of a fortnight or 
longer. 

The isolation of the sick should invariably be enforced 
in cases of small-pox, typhus, scarlet fever, diphtheria, 
measles, whooping-cough, &c., and this can most tho- 
roughly be carried out by the removal of the patient 
to an infectious disease hospital. A difficulty arises in 
the case of measles, that the pre eruptive stage is in- 
fectious, and that before the isolation can be effected, 
other persons have probably caught the infection. In 
measles and whooping-cough also, the contagion is so 
diffusible and universal that few can hope to escape; 
and the tender age of the sufferers in these and other 
infantile complaints renders them less suitable for hos- 
pital treatment than is the case with older children and 
adults. 

Where removal to hospital is not feasible, isolation 
must be attempted by placing the patient in a room by 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 43! 

himself at the top of the house, all communication with 
the other inmates being- forbidden ; and the aerial con- 
nection between the sick room and the rest of the house 
must be broken by hanging- up outside the door a sheet 
kept constantly soaked with some disinfectant liquid. 
Nothing- must be allowed to pass out of the sick room 
unless previously disinfected, and all dressings, poul- 
tices, and rags should be immediately burnt after use. 

Disinfectioti. As already mentioned, the virus of a 
contagious disease undergoes enormous multiplication 
in the body of the sick person, and is cast off during- 
the period of illness in the discharges and secretions, 
in the breath and from the skin. The contagion infects 
the air around the patient, and infects the clothes and 
furniture of the sick room. Disinfection aims at the 
destruction of the virus in these various situations. 

In the first place it would be natural to suppose that 
the infective particles might be destroyed before leaving- 
the body, or as soon as they are carried into the air. 
But except in the case of scarlet fever, where inunctions 
of carbolised oil to the surface of the body may prevent 
the desquamating skin acting- as a source of infection, 
it is evident that chemical reagents strong- enough to 
destroy specific micro -org-anisms would cause injury 
when taken into the system, or when diffused into the 
air around the patient. Where the virus is only con- 
tained in the evacuations, as in enteric fever, these can 
be at once disinfected by chemical solutions; but in the 
case of the other common infectious maladies, it is no 
use to attempt disinfection until the patient is convales- 
cent and no longer a source of infection himself. 

At the close of a case of infectious disease it becomes 
then necessary to disinfect the clothing-, bedding, and 
linen of the sick person, and the furniture, the surfaces 



432 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of walls, floors, and ceilings of the sick room. Articles 
of little value such as toys, newspapers, and cheap 
books should be burnt. 

Washable articles, e.g., linen, cotton, and flannel gar- 
ments should be steeped in cold water in the sick room 
to remove the grosser impurities, and then placed in 
boiling water for 5 or 10 minutes before being sent to the 
laundry. Although a liquid cannot be absolutely steril- 
ised by one boiling (see p. 60), yet it has been found 
experimentally that anthrax bacilli containing spores 
are destroyed by a very few minutes boiling; for 
guinea pigs are not affected by inoculation of a boiled 
cultivation. The anthrax spores are well known to be 
some of the most resistant and imperishable forms of 
bacterial life. Practically also, the singular protection 
against infection conferred by the boiling of milk or 
water, may be reckoned upon as a proof of boiling 
water being an efficient germicide. 

Bedding (mattresses, pillows, palliasses), blankets, 
carpets, curtains, and cloth clothes, which cannot be 
submitted to boiling, must be disinfected by dry heat or 
steam in a disinfecting apparatus. 

From Dr. Parson's experiments** 1 * it appears that 
steam is in many ways preferable to dry heat. It is a 
more powerful germicide; thus, spores of bacillus an- 
thracis required for destruction four hours' exposure to 
dry heat of 220 F., or one hour's exposure to dry heat 
of 245 F., but were destroyed by 5 minutes exposure to 
a heat of 212 F. in steam or boiling water. Other in- 
fective materials experimented on, viz., bacillus an- 
thracis, bacillus of swine fever (infectious pneumo- 
enteritis), and tubercular bacilli, were destroyed by an 

* Report on Disinfection by Heat. Report of Med. Off. Loc. Gov. 
Board, 1884. 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 433 

hour's exposure to dry heat at 220 F., or 5 minutes' 
exposure to steam at 212 F. 

Steam penetrates into bulky and badly conducting 
articles, such as mattresses, pillows, and clothing-, far 
more rapidly than dry heat. As steam penetrates into 
the interstices of a cold body it undergoes condensation, 
and imparts its latent heat to the cold objects in contact 
with it. When thus condensed into water, it occupies 
only a very small fraction (about y^Vcr) of i ts former 
volume. To fill the vacuum thus formed more steam 
presses forward, in its turn yielding up its latent heat 
and becoming condensed, and so on until the whole 
mass has been penetrated. On the other hand, hot air 
in yielding up its heat undergoes contraction in volume, 
but only to a very small extent as compared with that 
undergone by steam in condensing to water. Thus, air 
at 250 F. in cooling to 50 F. would only contract to 
of its previous volume. 

This penetrative property of steam may be increased 
by employing it under pressure, or by super-heating it, 
i.e., by raising the temperature of the steam vapour 
without converting more water into steam, thus obtain- 
ing "dry" steam ; and the pressure may be relaxed 
from time to time, so as to displace the cold air in the 
interstices of the material to be disinfected. With hot 
dry air the penetration of heat is aided by the admixture 
of steam. 

The deficient penetration of dry heat is the great 
drawback to its use. Although a dry heat of from 220 
F. to 250 F., continued for an hour, is almost certainly 
destructive of the viri of all human infectious diseases, 
yet as the heat penetrates so slowly, the interior of thick 
pillows and mattresses may, in an hour, not reach a 
temperature within 100 F. of the temperature of the air 

FF 



434 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of the oven, and such articles when withdrawn are not 
thoroughly disinfected. 

Washington Lyon's steam disinfector consists of a 
strong iron cylinder or chamber, elliptical in section, 
with double walls of boiler plate, and a door at each 
end. Steam is supplied from a boiler to the interior of 
the chamber and to the outer casing-, at will. The 
outer casing should first be heated by steam, in order 
that the steam admitted into the chamber may not con- 
dense and moisten the articles to be disinfected. The 
pressure of steam and the temperature in the chamber 
can be read off by means of gauges and thermometers. 
To obtain a temperature of 250 F., a pressure of about 
two atmospheres must be employed ; whilst by employ- 
ing a higher pressure of steam in the outer casing- than 
in the interior of the chamber, the steam in the latter 
can be super-heated, i.e., made to attain a higher tem- 
perature than that corresponding to its pressure. 

With this apparatus, as in all used in town disinfect- 
ing stations, the two doors of the chamber should open 
into two separate rooms ; one the infected side used 
for the reception of the articles to be disinfected, whilst 
the other the clean side is used to receive them puri- 
fied from the disinfecting apparatus. There must, of 
course, be no communication between these two com- 
partments. 

In Dr. Ransom's apparatus, heated air with the pro- 
ducts of combustion of a gas furnace pass through the 
chamber. It consists of a cubical iron chamber cased 
in wood with an intervening layer of felt, with double 
doors at each end. The furnace is placed at the side of 
the chamber and on a lower level. It consists of a ring- 
of atmospheric gas burners enclosed in an iron tube. 
The heated air containing the products of combustion 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 435 

passes along 1 a horizontal flue and enters the chamber 
at the bottom, which is perforated by a number of holes 
for its equable distribution. In the horizontal flue are 
fixed the bulbs of a thermometer and of a self-acting- 
mercurial regulator. Through the latter the gas supply 
to the burners can be made to pass, and it is so con- 
structed that as the temperature of the apparatus rises, 
the mercury expanding encroaches upon a slit through 
which the gas passes, and thus gradually cuts off the 
supply. At the top of the chamber there is an outlet 
flue controlled by a valve and furnished with a thermo- 
meter. In connection with this outlet is an arrangement 
designed for the extinction of the gas should the cloth- 
ing", etc., take fire: when the temperature at the outlet 
exceeds 300 F. a link of fusible metal melts, closing- a 
damper and shutting- off the supply of g-as (Dr. Parson's 
Report). 

In this apparatus the chamber is heated by currents 
of hot air, and Dr. Parsons found that in an apparatus 
of this form the distribution of temperature throughout 
the chamber is far more uniform than where the interior 
is heated by radiant heat, i.e., by the direct application 
of heat from burning coal or g-as to the floor or sides of 
the chamber. In the latter class also, the walls of the 
chamber become intensely heated, and if the articles of 
clothing come into contact with the hot metal they are 
very liable to be scorched or burnt. In Ransom's stove 
and in other stoves of the class where the chamber is 
heated by air warmed before its entrance, the walls of 
the chamber are no hotter than the air. 

The temperature, whether with moict or dry heat, 
should never exceed 250 F., otherwise scorching- occurs; 
and even this temperature is too high for white woollen 
articles. A temperature of 212 F. and upwards, whe- 

FF2 



436 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

ther dry or moist, fixes stains in fabrics, so that they 
will not wash out, especially where the stain is caused 
by albuminous materials coagulable by heat, such as 
blood. Where it is desired to remove stains, the arti- 
cles must be steeped in cold water, before exposure to 
heat. Steam disinfection causes a certain amount of 
shrinkage in textile materials, and is inapplicable in the 
case of leather. Alterations in colour and gloss of dyed 
articles, and overdrying rendering the materials brittle, 
may also be the result of exposure to heat (loc. '/.). 

Body lice and their eggs are destroyed by exposure 
to steam at 212 F. for 10 minutes, or to boiling water 
for 5 minutes. It is probable that a period of exposure 
not far short of I hour in dry hot air at 230 F. is neces- 
sary for their destruction. 

The bedding, clothing, and other removable para- 
phernalia of the sick room being disinfected by boiling 
water, by dry heat, or by steam, it now becomes neces- 
sary to disinfect the sick room itself, its furniture, floor, 
walls, and ceiling. 

In the first place the room should be as far as possible 
hermetically sealed the windows closed and chinks 
pasted over with paper, the chimney outlet closed up, 
and the door crevices carefully filled in or pasted over. 
Some one of the gaseous air purifiers should then be 
evolved in the centre of the apartment for about 3 to 6 
hours. Sulphurous aa'd, produced by burning sulphur in 
an iron vessel with a little spirit, is the most commonly 
used agent. As usually stated, the quantity to be 
employed should be I pound of sulphur to every lOOO 
cubic feet of the room. As I pound of sulphur in burn- 
ing produces 117 cubic feet of SO a , each 1000 cubic feet 
of air will contain 1-17 per cent, of the gas; but it is 
doubtful whether for efficient disinfecti9n the percentage 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 437 

of the gas in the air should not be considerably greater. 
Sulphurous acid decomposes sulphuretted hydrogen and 
combines with ammonia, and is supposed to act power- 
fully upon organic matters. 

Instead of sulphurous acid, one of the following gases 
may be used. 

Ozone may be generated by gradually mixing 3 parts 
of strong sulphuric acid with 2 parts of permanganate 
of potash. Ozone is a powerful oxidiser and destroyer 
of organic matter. 

Chlorine is best generated by gently heating a mixture 
of 4 parts of common salt (NaCl) and I part of man- 
ganese binoxide (MnO 2 ) with dilute sulphuric acid (half 
acid and half water). Euchlorine is a mixture of chlorous 
acid and free chlorine, and can be obtained by very 
gently heating a mixture of strong hydrochloric acid 
and potassium chlorate (KC1O 3 ). Chlorine is a power- 
ful bleaching and oxidising agent in the presence of 
moisture, combining with hydrogen and liberating oxy- 
gen. It rapidly decomposes sulphides of hydrogen and 
ammonium. 

Nitrous acid is evolved from the action of dilute nitric 
acid upon copper filings. Nitrogen dioxide (NO) is 
given off and abstracts oxygen from the air, red fumes, 
a mixture of nitrogen tetroxide (NO a ) and nitrous acid 
(HNO 2 ), being formed. These gases are powerful oxi- 
dising agents giving up oxygen to oxidisable organic 
matters, and again combining with atmospheric oxygen. 

Carbolic acid may be vaporised by applying heat to 
powders containing this substance. 

Although all these substances are powerful deodorisers 
and effectually destroy offensive odours, the extent of 
their germicidal action, when mixed with air in the 
quantities usually employed in disinfection, is not known 
and may well be believed to be very slight. 



438 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

After 6 hours of action of these gaseous substances, 
the apartment must be entered and the windows thrown 
wide open to allow of a free current of air passing" 
through the room for at least 24 hours. The presence 
of fresh air and atmospheric oxygen is probably at least 
as efficacious as the action of the so-called gaseous 
disinfectants. The wall-papers should then be stripped 
off, the ceiling limewhited, and the floors, woodwork, 
and wooden or iron furniture well washed with soap 
and hot water, to which carbolic acid has been added 
in the proportion of I part of carbolic acid to 20 of 
water. 

To disinfect enteric fever stools, tubercular sputa, and 
other discharges from the infectious sick, a large variety 
of chemical substances may be employed. Probably 
the most efficient of all is bichloride of mercury, a solu- 
tion of i part in 1000 of water, being an active germi- 
cide all the pathogenic organisms experimented on, 
with their spores, being destroyed after remaining in 
contact for a few minutes with a solution of this strength. 
It is necessary, however, that perchloride of mercury 
solutions should contain some free acid, such as hydro- 
chloric acid, to obviate the formation of insoluble 
albuminate of mercury, which tends to coat organic 
substances, and prevent the penetration of the disinfect- 
ant. Carbolic acid (phenol) or cresol in 5 per cent, 
solutions are possibly equally efficacious. Other sub- 
stances employed are chromic acid, bichromate of 
potassium, sulphate of copper, chloride of lime, per- 
chloride of iron, potassium permanganate, chloride of 
zinc, &c. 

Experiments have lately been largely conducted with 
these disinfectants, their action in a greater or less state 
of concentration being tried upon definite microbes such 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. 43Q 

as bacterium termo, bacillus of anthrax (with or without 
spores), bacillus of tubercle, and bacillus of swine fever. 
The organisms experimented upon were subsequently 
submitted to cultivation in nutrient media, and from 
thence inoculated into susceptible animals, suitable con- 
trol experiments being also conducted. 

By such means it has been possible to define the 
degree of concentration necessary to constitute any one 
of these chemical substances a germicide. The results 
obtained tend to show that many powerful deodorisers 
are not germicides unless highly concentrated, although 
they may for a time render the organisms inert by 
inhibiting their growth and activity without actually 
destroying them. 

The impossibility of disinfecting or sterilising large 
volumes of sewage or night-soil by the use of chemical 
reagents, unless applied in enormous and ruinous quan- 
tities, need hardly be insisted on. Small quantities of 
chemical re- agents may be very efficient deodorisers, for 
offensive smells are easily concealed or destroyed; and 
by the ignorant the removal of offensiveness isvpegarded 
as equivalent to destruction of infection. 



HOSPITALS. 

The aggregation of a large number of sick persons 
suffering from a variety of diseases, or recovering from 
surgical operations, in one common building, is a 
necessity of modern life, but is now recognised as being 
attended with risks and dangers from which the patient 
treated in his own home is to a large extent exempt. 
In former times, this crowding together of the sick in 
hospitals led to outbreaks of erysipelas, pyaemia, and 



44 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

hospital gangrene in the surgical wards, the contagion 
appearing to be conveyed from one patient to another 
through the air, or by means of the surgeon's hands or 
instruments when engaged in dressing wounds. The 
antiseptic treatment of wounds and injuries, and the 
greater care bestowed on the construction and manage- 
ment of hospitals have nearly eradicated these terrible 
diseases from modern hospital practice ; but when from 
any cause the surgical wards of hospitals are over- 
crowded, and the cleanliness and frequent dressings of 
wounds cannot be attended to, these septic diseases are 
almost sure to make their appearance and cause fright- 
ful havoc. Those who witnessed the horrible sufferings 
and mortality occasioned by dirt and over-crowding in 
the hospitals for sick and wounded during the Russo- 
Turkish war can bear evidence to the truth of this state- 
ment. 

It has often been noticed that cases of open wounds, 
from injury or operation, recover far more rapidly when 
treated in the open air, or in huts and tents practically 
open to the air, than when confined in close buildings ; 
and the same is true of cases of acute infectious disease. 
For such cases the breathing of pure air is a prophy- 
lactic worth more than all the drugs in the pharma- 
copoeia. For the cases of organic disease of important 
viscera, which are treated in medical wards, the bene- 
ficial effects of pure air, though not equally striking, are 
not unimportant, although in these cases pure air and 
thorough ventilation must often be subordinated to 
considerations of warmth and moisture. 

The first principle, then, in hospital construction and 
management is bound up in an abundant supply of pure 
air to the patients. The putrescent organic effluvia 
from the skins and lungs of sick persons, which, if not 



HOSPITALS. 441 

more copious, are certainly more deleterious than those 
from healthy people, must be diluted with fresh air and 
rapidly carried away. For each patient in a medical 
ward, the superficial floor space should not be less than 
100 square feet, and the cubic space 1000 cubic feet. 
The air should be changed at least three times in an 
hour, which would give 3000 cubic feet of fresh air per 
head per hour. In wards containing many patients suf- 
fering from phthisis, bronchitis, or pneumonia, with 
much purulent expectoration, a higher set of figures 
should be taken. 

For surgical wards and infectious disease hospitals 
the minimum floor space should be 140 square feet, and 
the minimum cubic space 1500 cubic feet per head, 
changed 3 or 4 times an hour. In the surgical wards, 
the effluvia from purulent or septic wounds are added 
to the exhalations from the lungs and skin, and require 
rapid dilution and removal. In the infectious wards, 
infective particles are wafted into the air from the skin 
and excretions, and must be destroyed by thorough oxi- 
dation as soon as formed. 

For general hospitals it is found that the most con- 
venient number of patients that may be treated in one 
ward, is on an average 30, this being the number which 
one nurse can readily supervise. In an oblong ward 
(fig. 74) with 30 patients, each patient to have 100 
square feet of floor space and 1000 cubic feet of air 
space, 3000 square feet of floor space will be required 
and 30,000 cubic feet of air space. The 3000 square 
feet of floor space will be available if the ward is 120 
feet long and 25 feet wide. As there are 15 beds on 
each side of the ward, the longitudinal wall space for 
each bed will be 8 feet, and the distance between any 
2 beds (themselves 3 feet wide and 6J feet long) will be 



442 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



5 feet. The width of 25 feet is a convenient one, as it 
allows a passage 1 1 feet wide between the two rows of 
beds for the whole length of the ward, and permits of 
thorough cross-ventilation between the opposite win- 
dows, and the flooding of every part of the ward with 
daylight. 

To provide the 30,000 cubic feet of air space the ward 




D D D D D 

D n n n n n 




A 



FIG. 74. Diagrams of Oblong and Circular Wards. A. Turret 
Blocks, for Water-closets, Baths, and Sinks. 

must be 10 feet high. It would be better to have the 
height of the ward 12 feet, which would allow 1200 
cubic feet of air space per patient. Any height above 
14 or 15 feet is useless for purposes of ventilation, and 
should be discounted in calculating the cubic space per 
head. 



HOSPITALS. 443 

The circular ward system (fig-. 74) has been much 
advocated. It has several advantages, such as the 
absence of corners for the accumulation of dust, the 
aspect facing 1 all corners of the compass, by which the 
ward obtains sunlight at all seasons of the year and at 
every hour of the day, and the facility offered to nurses 
and attendants in passing" from one bed to another. On 
the other hand if a circular ward is to accommodate the 
same number of patients as an oblong- ward having- an 
equal floor measurement and cubic contents, the beds ot 
the patients, which are placed around the wall, must be 
very closely packed together, and the 8 feet of wall 
space per bed cannot by any possibility be attained. 

Thus, for a circular ward to have 3000 square feet of 
floor space, the diameter of the circle must be 6r8 feet. 
The circumference of the circle will be 194 feet. From 
this must be deducted the width ot the entrances of two 
lobbies or passages, say 13 feet, which leaves 181 feet 
of wall space for 30 beds or about 6 feet per bed, at the 
head of the bed. The circumference of the smaller 
circle formed by the feet of the beds is 153 feet, which 
gives 5 feet per bed at their feet, or an average of 5-5 
feet for each bed. This means far too close approxi- 
mation of the beds, and the creation of an evil not en- 
countered in the oblong- wards. There is a larg-e open 
space in the centre of the ward unoccupied, which is of 
little use to the patients crowded together at the cir- 
cumference. It has been proposed to utilise this space 
for a nurse's room or for a central staircase ; but both 
these plans would create obstruction to cross-ventilation 
and access of light, whilst the central staircase might 
act as a shaft for the passag-e of foul air from one ward 
to another. 

Where space will admit, the system of one-storeyed 



444 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

pavilions is far the best for all hospitals, and is especially 
suited for those intended for infectious diseases. The 
pavilions are connected with one another, and with the 
administrative blocks, by corridors which are, or may 
be, open to the air ; and all risk of transference of foul 
air and effluvia from one ward to another is avoided. 
In large towns, a certain amount of crowding on a 
limited area is indispensable, and wards of two or more 
storeys in height must be built. Even in these, the 
system of disconnected pavilions should be aimed at, 
and the staircases require careful planning to prevent 
them acting as shafts for the passage of air from one 
ward to another. The external air space around the 
wards should be ample, and overshadowing by high 
buildings in the neighbourhood must be carefully 
avoided. 

Provision should be made for the entrance of warmed 
fresh air in winter; this may be effected by Galton's 
ventilating open fireplace, or by a ventilating stove or 
stoves placed in the centre of the ward. Hot water 
pipes should also be placed in the ward, as they may be 
required during very cold weather, or for the treatment 
of cases where much warmth is desired. 

To secure the best kind of natural ventilation, the 
ward should have opposite windows reaching nearly 
to the ceiling, and the upper portion of each window 
should be made to revolve on its lower border into the 
ward, so as to admit fresh air during warm weather in 
an upward slanting direction. It is also very desirable 
to have a fresh air inlet close to the floor at the head of 
each bed, in order to ventilate the space under the bed, 
and at once carry away the respired air and effluvia 
from each patient. For the escape of the heated and 
vitiated air there should be numerous extraction shafts 



HOSPITALS. 445 

opening- near the ceiling 1 , which should unite together, 
the shaft being then carried up in close contact with the 
stove or chimney flue, in order that the column of air 
in it may not be allowed to cool and hinder the up 
draught. In summer, when the stoves are not in action, 
the same result may be produced by burning 1 gas in 
Bunsen burners at the bottom of the extraction shafts. 

On the whole, however, the propulsion system of 
ventilation, as described on page 256, is the best for 
hospitals. A rotatory fan in the basement driven by 
a steam or gas engine should be used as the motor ; 
and the air should be warmed in the entrance shaft in 
cold weather by passing it over pipes containing waste 
steam or hot water. The amount of air introduced into 
the wards, and its temperature can be regulated with 
nicety, and there is the certainty that all air so intro- 
duced is taken from a pur^ source. Where an extrac- 
tion system alone is relied upon, the entering air is 
incapable of regulation both as to its source and its 
amount. 

The water-closets, bath-rooms, and slop-sinks, should 
be placed in a block outside the ward, but connected 
with it by a cross-ventilated lobby (fig. 74^). By this 
means, if disconnection of waste-pipes and ventilation 
of soil-pipes is properly attended to, there is no risk of 
foul drain air gaining access to the ward. Proper hos- 
pital slop-sinks are necessary for washing and empty- 
ing bed-pans, spittoons, and urine slippers. They 
should be made of porcelain or enamelled fire-clay, 
should be of large size, at least 12 inches square at the 
top, and should be flushed from a water- waste pre- 
venter. 

To exclude ground air from hospital wards is another 
very important measure ; and this may be effected, as 



446 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

in ordinary building's, by thoroughly concreting- over 
the surface of the ground, and ventilating the space 
between the concrete and flooring through numerous 
air bricks, or by raising the ward some feet above the 
ground by arched vaults open on each side for their 
whole length for thorough ventilation. 

Almost as important as good ventilation is the pro- 
vision of internal surfaces (walls, floors, and ceilings) 
to the wards, which will not hold or absorb organic 
effluvia. The occurrence of erysipelas and surgical 
fever has been attributed and probably rightly so 
to wooden floors with chinks and crevices between the 
boards. The organic matters from poultices ard dress- 
ings find their way into these crevices, and accumulate 
under the flooring. The floors are frequently washed, 
and the ascensional force of evaporation, when they are 
drying, carries up solid particles (organic debris and 
microbes), to be wafted into the air and spread disease 
from bed to bed. 

The floors of the wards should be covered with oak 
parqueterie, or with solid wood-block flooring without 
chinks or cracks, laid on a bed of concrete. The surface 
should be painted or stained and varnished, and kept 
clean without washing. The parqueted floors should 
be oiled and beeswaxed. It is most essential to avoid 
washing floors with water. The air of the wards is by 
this means chilled from evaporation when the floor is 
drying, it becomes over-moist, and solid particles are 
wafted into it. 

The wall surfaces should be impermeable. Glazed 
tiles set in Portland cement afford, perhaps, the best 
and most easily cleaned surface. But the walls may 
also be coated with cement or paint, or even distem- 
pered, if tiles are too costly. Ceilings may be cemented, 
or lime-washed several times a year. 



HOSPITALS. 447 

The beds should be of iron with spring- wire mat- 
tresses, and in the surgical wards provided with mov- 
able fracture boards. It is very important to reduce the 
furniture of the ward to a minimum, and to allow no 
curtains, hangings, or drapery of any sort. 

Excreta, sputa, dirty dressings, and poultices must 
be removed from the wards at very frequent intervals. 
In the case of infectious disease hospitals, it is very 
desirable that these refuse matters should be destroyed. 
This can be done by means of a small destructor fur- 
nace in connection with the boiler house or heating fur- 
nace of a large hospital. In small-pox hospitals, recent 
experience shows that even the air extracted from the 
wards should be purified by passage through a furnace 
before it escapes into the outer atmosphere. Without 
some such safeguard, small-pox hospitals are a centre 
of infection for the surrounding neighbourhood. 

For the exercise of the patients, covered balconies on 
the southern or western aspect of the building should 
be provided ; and in large towns where space for a 
garden is wanting, a flat roof affords a valuable exer- 
cise and recreation ground. 

In some of the more recently constructed hospitals, it 
has been found convenient to place the kitchens and 
sculleries at the top of the building, and to use gas and 
steam for all culinary purposes. 

Every town should have hospital accommodation for 
the isolation of cases of infectious disease. The amount 
of accommodation required will depend upon the cha- 
racter of the population; but it maybe stated gene- 
rally that there should be at least one bed to every 
IOOO of the population, when this is largely composed 
of the industrial classes. The one-storeyed pavilion sys- 
tem is most suitable for infectious disease hospitals, 



448 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

and one pavilion should be set aside for the separate 
accommodation of small-pox cases. A site should be 
chosen outside the town in a thinly populated neigh- 
bourhood. 

In epidemic periods it may be necessary to supple- 
ment existing- hospital accommodation, and for this pur- 
pose tents (in summer) or huts of galvanised iron, wood, 
Willesden water-proof material, or Dcecker's material 
(a water-proof composition resembling leather), can be 
erected. Huts of the three last materials are preferable 
to iron as they are easier to warm. The floors should 
be raised a foot from the ground, and the ridge of the 
roof should be used for ventilation as well as the win- 
dows. If these huts are constructed with hollow walls, 
the temperature in cold weather can be properly main- 
tained with efficient ventilation a difficult task without 
hollow walls, owing to thinness of the materials. As 
the wood and water-proof compositions used in the con- 
struction of these hut hospitals are liable to rot and 
decay, they can only be regarded as temporary struc- 
tures; and as soon as the emergency which necessitated 
their erection is over, they are best pulled down and 
destroyed. 



STATISTICS. 449 



CHAPTER X. 

STATISTICS. 
Statistical Inquiries. 

THE science of statistics consists in the collection of 
individual facts, with the view of grouping- them into 
different classes according- to certain definite characters 
they possess. For instance, a certain number of deaths 
are recorded in the course of a year; these are the 
individual facts. These deaths may be sub-divided into 
groups according- to the ages or the sex of the deceased 
persons, or according to the nature of the disease which 
proved fatal to them, etc. The rule to which attention 
must be specially directed in differentiating a series of 
facts, is that the points of difference or characteristics 
on which a group is to be formed, should be common to 
each member of that group, but absent from the mem- 
bers of all other groups. The dividing character must 
be constant, and must be definite. The numerical rela- 
tions between the series of facts in the group or sub- 
division, and the total number of cases which furnish the 
groups are usually expressed as percentages, or multi- 
ples of percentages (per 1000, per 10,000, per 1,000,000), 
by multiplying the number of cases or units in the group 
by 100, 1000, &c., and dividing the result by the total 
number of cases. 

It does not follow that because, in any series of cases, 
the groups bear a certain numerical proportion to the 
total number of cases, these proportions will be the 
same in any subsequent series of like cases, unless the 

GG 



45O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

numbers dealt with in the first case are infinitely large. 
The smaller the number of individual facts on which the 
groups are founded, the greater is the possible deviation 
from the proportions which may be observed in any 
subsequent series of like facts. By Poissoris Rule the 
limits of error, or the degree of approximation to the 
truth of the numerical relations existing between the 
units or groups of units of a series, may be ascertained. 
Let M = total number of cases in the series recorded. 

m = number of cases in one group. 

n = number of cases in the other group. 

Then m + n = M, and -' and - are the propor- 
M M 

tions of each group to the whole. But on subsequent 
occasions, with another series of like cases, the propor- 
tions may be 



And the same holds good with n group of cases. The 
larger the value of M, the less will be the value of the 
fraction of which M 3 is the denominator, and conse- 
quently the smaller the error to be added to or sub- 

tracted from ^ or ^ . 
M M 

Example. M = 100 cases of fever. 
m = 25 cases which die. 
n 75 cases which recover. 

Then the proportion or J may be in other instances 



2 = 025+0-1225=0-3725 

1 V-JV^ 
/O v/ OF* w * H 

or i 



That is to say, the number of deaths out of 100 other 



STATISTICS. 451 

cases of the same fever, instead of being- 25, may be as 
many as 37 or as few as 13. But if, instead of 100 cases 
of fever in the original series, there had been 10,000 
cases, the limit of error would have been only 0-01225 
in unity, or 1-225 per cent, above or below the propor- 
tion found actually to exist. 

The average or arithmetical mean of a series of 
figures is obtained by adding together the numerical 
values of the figures, and dividing the total by the num- 
ber of figures in the series. This average or mean num- 
ber will have a higher numerical value than belongs to 
some of the figures composing the series, and a lower 
numerical value than belongs to others. The less the 
difference between the average and the figures of the 
series, the greater is its value. The relative values of 
two or more similar series are as the reciprocals of the 

squares of the probable errors ; that is as _ L ^ where 

pe is the probable error. The probable error is ap- 
proximately two-thirds of the mean error which is ob- 
tained as follows: I. Find the mean of the series of 
observations ; find the mean of all the observations above 
the mean, and subtract the mean from it ; this gives the 
mean error in excess. 2. Find the mean of all the ob- 
servations below the mean, and subtract the latter from 
this mean; this gives the mean error in deficiency. Add 
the two quantities (mean error in excess and mean error 
in deficiency), and take the half; this is the mean error. 
(Parkes' Practical Hygiene, Foot-note, p. 482). 

The relative values of two or more series are also as 
the square roots of the number of units of observation. 
By increasing the number of observations in any in- 
quiry, the value (or accuracy) increases as the square 
root of the number (loc. cit.). 

GG2 



452 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



Vital Statistics. 

To obtain the statistics of a community which have 
relation to its public health, it is necessary to have 
a correct enumeration of the population, a complete re- 
gistration of births and deaths, and in the case of 
deaths, a correct statement as to their cause, together 
with the age of every deceased person. The number of 
births and deaths which take place in the course of a 
year, are generally expressed in the form of birth-rates 
and death-rates, i.e., so many births or so many deaths 
to 1000 of the population. 

The first inquiry, therefore, which becomes necessary, 
is to ascertain for any community the number of the 
living during any year, or at any period of a year. The 
last census returns of the population give the necessary 
information the exact enumeration of the numbers liv- 
ing and their ages at the time the census was taken. 
If the population is stationary the births equalling the 
deaths and no emigration or immigration taking place 
the census returns are true for any subsequent year. 
But there are few communities of persons, in this country 
at any rate, where the population is stationary for any 
length of time. It becomes then necessary to refer back 
to the last census but one, to ascertain if the population 
in the 10 years between the two enumerations, has in- 
creased, decreased, or remained stationary. In this 
country, the births have for a great number of years 
exceeded the deaths and the emigrations, with the re- 
sult of a steady increase of the population. 

By the Law of Population, a population increases in 
regular geometrical progression when the births exceed 
the deaths, and the ratio of the births and of the deaths 



STATISTICS. 453 

to the population remains constant. In England from 
1801 to 1841, the mean rate of increase for each unit of 
the population was 0*0141 annually. The increase in 
any number of years () between 1801 and 1841 is de- 
rived from the increase in one year by multiplying 
I + the annual rate of increase (0-0141) n times into 
itself. Conversely to obtain the annual rate of increase 
from the increase in n years, the th root of the increase 
in n years must be taken. 

Example. If the birth-rate of a population numbering 
5000 is 30 per looo, and the death-rate is 20 per 1000, 
and these rates remain constant for 10 years, the annual 
rate of increase is 10 per 1000, oro'Oi per unit; i.e., 
one person becomes I'OI at the end of a year, or 1000 
persons become IOIO. The population at the end of the 
loth year (the last term of the series in geometrical 
progression) = 5000 X roi 10 5523 persons. For the 
population at the end of the first year is 5000 x roi ; 
at the end of the second year it is (5000 x roi) x roi 
- 5000 x I'OI 2 ; at the end of the third year it is 
(5000 x roi 2 ) x roi =5000 x roi 3 ; and at the end 
of the tenth year it is 5000 x roi 10 . 

The census is taken every 10 years, at the end of the 
first quarter of the year. In calculating birth-rates or 
death-rates for any year, the estimated population for 
the middle of that year must be taken as the basis; for 
it alone represents the average number of persons who 
are living in that year. The following method, devised 
by the Registrar-General, may conveniently be used for 
estimating the population of a town or district for the 
middle of any year from the two last census returns. 

Example. Suppose the population of a town by the 
census of 1871 is x, and by the census of 1881 isj', and 
it is required to know the population in the middle 



454 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

of the year 1888. Let r = annual rate of increase per 
unit of the population. Then y = x x (i + r) 10 : and 
10 log. (i + r) = log. y log. x = log. of the rate of in- 
crease for 10 years. If log. (i + r} is denoted by log. a, 

then log ' a or lo ^' y ~ log ' X = log. of the rate of in- 
10 10 

crease for one year. 

Therefore log. of population in middle of 1888 . 



. 

This formula assumes that the population of the town 
is increasing or decreasing 1 in the same ratio since the 
last census, as it did between 1871 and 1881. 

It is here that a fallacy may arise. The population 
which serves as the basis for calculating the birth and 
death-rates in the 9 years intervening- between any two 
census returns, is only an estimate, and therefore only 
approximately true. The estimates of population so 
obtained generally exhibit a considerable divergence 
from the actual truth in the years most remote from the 
last census. Consequently statistics calculated upon 
such estimates are usually erroneous. A comparison 
may be made between this estimate and that arrived 
at by a calculation of the number of inhabited houses in 
the district, and the average number of inhabitants in 
each but this again is only an approximation. Another 
means of checking the estimated population is by as- 
suming that the birth-rate per 1000 inhabitants remains 
fairly constant in a series of years; and this assumption 
is found to hold good when applied to large popula- 
tions. Then the population 

_ registered births in the year x IQQQ 
average birth-rate for previous 10 years. 



STATISTICS. 455 

It is, however, most desirable that the census should 
now be quinquennial instead of decennial. 

Birth-rates and death-rates may be calculated as 
annual rates to 1000 persons living-, from weekly, 
monthly, or quarterly returns. They represent the 
number of births or deaths that would take place 
per loooof the population in a year, if the proportion 
of births and deaths to population, recorded in these 
shorter periods, were maintained throughout the year. 
Now the correct number of days in a natural year is 
365 '24226, and the correct number of weeks is 52*17747. 
The birth-rate or death-rate may be accurately calcu- 
lated from weekly returns in the following- manner. 

Example : let b = number of births recorded for the week. 
,, d = number of deaths recorded for the week. 
x population estimated to the midjdle of the year. 

Then the birth-rate per 1000 = [b ] x 1000 ; 

I 52-I7747J 

or what is the same thing, 

log. birth-rate per unit = log. b -f log. 52-17747 log. x 
and log. death-rate per unit = log. d -f log. 52*17747 log* x. 

The length of the calendar month varies from 28 
to 3 1 days, and of the quarter from 90 to 92 days ; 
so that the birth-rate or death-rate from monthly or 
quarterly returns is obtained thus : 

Example : let x = number of days in the month. 
,, y number of days in the quarter. 

Then birth-rate per unit - \b - populatlon> \ , where b = births in 

365-24226 a month . 

^ J 

Or birth-rate per unit = fb - population ^i , where b = births in 

365-24226 a quarter. 

1 y j 

* See paper by the Author on " Some Aspects of Mortality 
Statistics," Public Health, August, 1888. 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

In large towns a certain number of deaths occur 
in public institutions (hospitals, workhouses, &c.). In 
London, which is divided into a number of parishes, in 
calculating- the death-rate of any parish, the deaths of 
inhabitants of other parishes, which occur in public 
institutions in the parish, must be excluded ; whilst 
deaths of parishioners occurring in the public institutions 
in the parish and outside it, must be included in order 
to arrive at the true death-rate. In London, the figures 
required for this purpose are now supplied to Medical 
Officers of Health by the Registrar-General. Formerly 
it was the custom to assign to each parish, out of the 
total deaths in public institutions in London, a number 
proportional to its population. This method served very 
well when the exact figures were not obtainable. 

It may be well to point out in this place especially 
as misunderstanding is constantly arising on the subject 
what is the true significance of death-rates, and how 
far they are reliable as tests of the health and sanitary 
surroundings of different communities. The fallacies 
arising from a wrong estimate of population have been 
already alluded to. 

Death-rates constructed from the mortality returns of 
short periods such as a week or month, are not reliable 
as tests of health. They are necessarily subject to acci- 
dental fluctuations, which must prevent any true con- 
clusions being drawn from them. So, too, with the 
death-rates of very small populations, even when they 
exhibit returns covering a period of a year. The num- 
bers, on which the figures are founded, are not suffi- 
ciently large to exclude those accidental fluctuations 
from varying circumstances, which must be got rid of 
before any just reasoning can be founded on death- 
rates. It is different with the death-rates from yearly 



STATISTICS. 457 

returns of larger populations. Where the units, on 
which the figures are founded, are sufficiently large, 
accidental fluctuations are swamped so to speak and 
the errors traceable to them are reduced to very small 
limits, so that trustworthy results are obtained. 

But in comparing death-rates of different towns or 
districts with each other, there are other sources of 
error which must be taken into account. A population 
consists of a number of people living at every age from 
the time of birth to 100 years or more. Now the age 
distribution of two or more populations may vary 
widely the proportions of children, adults, and old 
people, to the total population in different cases being 
often very different. If the death-rate were the same 
for all ages, this different age-distribution might be 
neglected. But such is not the case ; children under 5 
and old people over 55 years of age die at a greater 
rate than the death-rate for all ages ; whilst from the 
age of 5 up to 55, the death-rate is less than the gene- 
ral rate. There is another disturbing factor, and that 
is the proportionate number of males to females in any 
population. Females at all ages have lower death-rates 
than males. 

The following table exhibits the death-rates at differ- 
ent age-periods (calculated upon the numbers living 
at each age-period) amongst males and females in 
England and Wales during the 10 years 1871-80. 

From these figures it will be seen that it would not be 
right to compare the general death-rates of two towns, 
one of which let us suppose had a larger proportion 
of females and of young adults, and a smaller propor- 
tion of males and old people, than the other. Correc- 
tions must be made for age and sex-distribution. It is 
for this reason that the unconnected death-rates of rural 



458 



HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 



districts overstate, whilst the death-rates of large cities 
understate the real mortality. For instance, the re- 
corded average death-rate for Dorsetshire during the 
10 years 1871-80 was 17*46 per 1000. If the age-distri- 
bution of Dorsetshire had been the same as for England 
and Wales generally, the corrected death-rate is 15-97 
per 1000, or 1*5 per 1000 lower than the recorded rate. 
But the Lancashire death-rate when thus corrected is 



Annual Mortality per IOOO. 





MALES. 


FEMALES. 


All ages . 










22-61 


20-00 


Under 5 years 










68-14 


58-10 


5-io 












6-67 


6-20 


10-15 












3-69 


3-70 


15-20 












5-23 


5 '43 


20-25 












7'32 


6-78 


25-35 












9-30 


8-58 


35-45 












1374 


11-58 


45-55 












20-05 


I5-59 


55-65 












34'7 6 


28-54 


65-75 












69-57 


60-82 


75 and upwards 








169-08 


I55-83 



(Supplement to the 45th Annual Report of the Registrar-General). 

26-87, instead of 25-17, or 17 per 1000 higher than the 
recorded rate. 

In Dorsetshire the population is very sparse and scat- 
tered (3-27 acres to a person), whilst in Lancashire 
(0-41 acres to a person) with its many manufacturing 
towns in which the population is closely aggregated, 
the density of population is comparatively great. In 
many parts of large towns the density of population is 



STATISTICS. 



459 



very great 0*005 acres to a person, or less and the 
death-rate correspondingly high. The high death- 
rates, which go with dense population, are not simply 
the result of aggregation. Aggregation means no 
doubt, generally, polluted air and possibly polluted 
water and soil, and the easy spread of infectious 
disease. But as Dr. Ogle has pointed out, the more 
crowded a community, the greater the amount of abject 
want, filth, crime, drunkenness, and other excesses, the 
more keen is the competition, and the more feverish 
and exhausting the conditions of life. It is, too, in these 
crowded communities that the most dangerous and un- 
healthy industries are carried on. These indirect conse- 
quences of aggregation influence the mortality greatly 
more than the direct. 

Besides normal increase of population by excess of 
births over deaths, the immigration into large towns, 
which always greatly exceeds the emigration from 
them, tends to bring large numbers of young adults 
into the population, and so influence the age-distri- 
bution. 

The following table gives the age- distribution of lOOO 
persons in England and Wales (mean of censuses ot 
1871 and 1881). 





10 




















I/j 


0> 


(_, 




















C S 


OS 


V 


5-io 


10-15 


I5-2O 


20-25 


25-35 


35-45 


45-55 


55-65 


65-75 


cS rt 





c 






















s 


D 




















p 


IOOO 


136 


120 


107 


97 


89 


J47 


H3 


86 


59 


33 


13 



The Registrar- General has adopted the following- 
method for making the necessary corrections for age 
and sex-distribution in any population. (Annual Sum- 
mary, 1883). 



460 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

The mean annual death-rate for each sex, at each of 
the 12 age-periods in England and Wales in 1871-80, is 
applied to the population of the town or district under 
consideration with age and sex-distribution as shown at 
the last census (1881). The result is a number called 
the standard rate, which varies in every town or district 
according to the age and sex-distribution of the popula- 
tion of the town or district. The mean annual death- 
rate of England and Wales for 1871-80, viz., 21-27, 
is then divided by this standard rate, and a factor is 
obtained for the town or district, by which the recorded 
death-rate of any year must be multiplied. This factor 
exceeds unity in 26 out of the 28 large towns of the 
Registrar- General, showing that their death-rates with- 
out correction are understated, and is less than unity 
in the remaining two towns, showing that in these two 
cases the uncorrected death-rates are overstated, when 
compared with the country generally. 

We are now in a position to understand the influence 
of birth-rate upon death-rate. Some years ago Dr. 
Letheby asserted that a high death-rate was not neces- 
sarily an evil. "An increase in the rate of mortality is 
often a sign of prosperity, for a high death-rate means 
a high birth-rate, and a high birth-rate is the invariable 
concomitant of prosperity." It is true that in large 
towns high death-rates go with high birth-rates; but, 
as pointed out by the late Dr. Farr, high death-rates 
are not the result of high birth-rates, rather are they 
caused by density of population (overcrowding on space 
and in houses) and by bad sanitary conditions. High 
birth-rates should cause a lowered death-rate; for if 
year by year the births exceed the deaths amongst a 
population, not only are additional children under 5 
years of age, whose mortality is high, added to the popu- 



STATISTICS. 461 

lation, but a still larger increase of children and adults 
above that age, whose mortality is low, takes place ; 
whilst the proportion of old people over 55 years of age 
to the total population is diminished. A high birth-rate, 
therefore, continuing over a period of years, is favour- 
able to a low death-rate, and a low birth-rate to a high 
death-rate. If we find as is actually the case that a 
rural district with a low birth-rate has also a low death- 
rate, whilst an urban district with a high birth-rate has 
a high death-rate, we must conclude that the sanitary 
surroundings, the occupations, or the social conditions of 
the rural district are more favourable to life than those 
of the urban. These are the main causes of the varying 
health-conditions of populations, of which death-rates, 
with certain limitations, afford trustworthy evidence. 

In estimating the total death-rate of a combination of 
two or more districts, which exhibit different mortality 
figures, it is necessary to add together a fraction of 
each death-rate the fraction being the proportion re- 
presented by the population of each sub-district to the 
whole population of the combined districts. The method 
of taking the average of the district death-rates, irre- 
spective of population, would introduce a serious error. 

Example. If A has a population of 10,000, and a 
death-rate of 25 per 1,000; if B has a population of 
2,000 and a death-rate of IO per 1,000; and if C has a 
population of 7,000 and a death-rate of 15 per 1,000; 
the death-rate of the combined districts with a popula- 
tion of 19,000 is 

fl^29 x 25 ] + f -^ x ,o] + \1 x isl = 

1,19.000 Ll9,000 Ll9,000 J 



X 10 

i9 1.9 

250 + 20 + 105 = 375 = 
19 19 " 



462 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

If, however, the average of 25, 10, and 15, had been 
taken, viz., 16-6, an error of 3-1 per rooo would havs 
been committed. 

The mean age at death of a population, is obtained by 
summing 1 up the ages at which people die, and dividing 
the number of years by the number of deaths. It is 
merely an expression of the average age at death of a 
population, and gives no evidence of the health or sani- 
tary condition of the community. When a population is 
rapidly increasing by excess of births over deaths, the 
mean age at death is low, because the population is 
largely composed of young persons. When a popula- 
tion is nearly stationary, the proportion of old people to 
the total population is large, and the mean age at death 
is high. The "mean age at death," therefore, gives 
information as to the ages of the dying and per contra 
of the living in different communities, but nothing more. 
The mean duration of life or expectation of life at birth 
differs widely from the " mean age at death," when the 
population is increasing, although when the population 
is stationary, they coincide. Thus the mean duration of 
life in England (1871-80) for males was 41-35 years; 
if the population were stationary, the mean age of 
males who died would have been 41-35, and I in 41-35 
would have died every year. Whereas the mean age 
at death was only 29 years, whilst r in 44*2 died an- 
nually. One in 44-2 died annually and not I in 41-35, 
because the increase of population has been so long 
continued by excess of births over deaths, that an excess 
of persons between the ages of 5 and 55 has accumu- 
lated, whose mortality is low ; and this excess, together 
with proportional diminution of persons over 55 years 
of age, has served to reduce the death-rate. The mean 
duration of life is found from Life-Tables, which show 



STATISTICS. 



463 



how many of a given number born, live through each 
year of age, and what is the sum of the number of years 
they live ; the sum of these years divided by the lives is 
the mean duration of life (mean after-lifetime or ex- 
pectation of life at birth). It is not the same thing as 
the probable duration of life, which is the age at which 
a given number of children born at the same time are 
reduced one-half. The mean duration of life for males 
(English Life-Table, 1871-80) was 41-35 years, whilst 
the probable duration of life was about 47^ years. 



English Life-Table 1871-80 (abridged from Dr. Ogle's). 





MALES. 


FEMALES. 


AGE. 


Of a million born 


Mean after- 


Of a million born 


Mean after- 




number surviving. 


lifetime, number surviving. 


lifetime. 





I,OOO,OOO 


41*35 I,OOO,OOO 


44-62 


i 


841,417 


48-05 


871,266 


50'I4 


2 


790,201 


50T4 


820,480 


52-22 


3 


7 6 3,737 


50-86 


793,359 


52-99 


4 


746,587 


51-01 


775,427 


53*20 


5 


734,068 


50-87 


762,622 


53*o8 


10 


708,990 


47-60 


738,382 


49*76 


15 


696,419 


43H 1 


7 2 4,956 


45*63 


20 


680,033 


39*40 


707,949 


41-66 


25 


657,077 


35-68 


684,858 


37*98 


30 


630,038 


32-10 


658,418 


34*4i 


35 


598,860 


28-64 


628,842 


30-90 


40 


563,077 


25*30 


596,H3 


27-46 


45 


522,374 


22*07 


560,174 


24-06 


50 


476,980 


18-93 


520,901 


20-68 


55 


424,677 


15*95 


477,440 


17*33 


60 


365,011 


I3*i4 


422,835 


14-24 


65 


297,156 


10-56 


355,i65 


11-42 


70 


222,056 


8-27 


277,225 


8'95 



* Supplement to the 45th Annual Report of the Registrar-General. 



464 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

Mean after-lifetime is a more accurate expression than 
expectation of life, as, strictly speaking-, the time which 
it is expected a person will live, is the time which it is an 
even chance he will live; it is then strictly the probable 
duration of his life. It has been thought advisable to 
retain here the term "expectation of life," as being the 
term usually employed in Life-Tables. It must be under- 
stood, however, to mean, whenever expressed, the mean 
after-lifetime, and not the probable duration of life. 

It has been shown by the late Prof, de Chaumont 
that the mean duration of life may be approximately 
calculated from the birth-rate and death-rate by the 
following formula; where h = birth-rate per unit of the 
population ; and d = death-rate per unit of the popula- 
tion. 

Then mean duration of life = I - x -1 1 -f f L x i | . 

^3 d J v.3 bJ 

This formula, however, is really only applicable when 
the birth- and death-rates do not depart much from the 
average of the whole country. 

At other ages than at birth, the mean duration of life 
is often held to be the expectation of life at the age in 
question added to the present age. 

The latest English Life-Table (Dr. Ogle's) is based 
upon the mean population of each sex, and at each 
year of age, of the decennium 1871-80, and on the total 
deaths for each sex at each year of age during the 
same period. Then the rate of mortality per unit of the 
male or female population at any age x = 

number dying at age x 

= m x 

mean population at age x 

The mean population at the age x is the precise num- 
ber returned as living at the age x less one-half of the 
deaths occurring in the ensuing year. The probability 



STATISTICS. 465 

that a person of the precise age x will survive one full 

number of survivors at end of year x , 

year = - _,_ J - = p x ; and 

number living at beginning or year x 

it has been ascertained that p x = 2 ~ m *. 

2 + m x 

Thus starting with a certain number (/) at birth, if/ 
is multiplied by the probability of living one year, the 
number surviving at the end of the year is obtained. 
Similarly the number living at the end of the second 
year is obtained by multiplying the number commencing 
the year by the probability of their surviving the year, 
and so on. In this way, commencing with a certain 
number at birth, the number surviving at each year of 
age up to 100 or more years can be ascertained and 
entered in the Life-Table column (see Vital Statistics, 
A. Newsholme, M.D.). 

Life-Tables, besides giving the numbers surviving at 
all ages from a million born at one and the same time, 
also show what is the expectation of life (mean after- 
lifetime) at each year of age that is the length of time 
a person of any age may be expected to live. The ex- 
pectation of life at any age is derived from the numbers 
living at the age in question (given in the Life-Table) 
and from the years of life they subsequently live, just as 
is the mean duration of life (expectation of life at birth). 
For ages between 25 and 75, Willich's formula also 
gives approximate results. 

If x = expectation of life, and a = present age, 
then x = f (80 a). 

Life-tables afford an excellent test of the health of 
a community. By the English Table for 1871-80, the 
expectation of life at birth for males is 41*35 years. 
The expectation of life increases every year in both 
sexes up to the 4th year, when it is 5 i f Oi for males, and 

HH 



466 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

53-2 for females, the dangers to life of the period of 
infancy being then passed. Subsequent to the 4th year, 
the expectation of life gradually decreases for each year 
of age. The expectation of life for males at all ages 
up to 19 years, is higher by the recent Table (1871-80) 
than by the previous one (1838-54). But after the age 
of 19, the expectations of life are slightly higher by the 
old Table than by the new. For females the expecta- 
tion of life is greater by the new Table up to the age 
of 45, and subsequent to that age is less than by the old 
Table. 

The causes of this alteration in figures between the 
new and old Life-Tables, appear to be that by improved 
sanitary surroundings the lives of infants and children 
have been saved in the recent period which were sacri- 
ficed in the former, thus increasing the expectation of 
life during childhood and youth. After reaching adult 
age, males are now subjected to conditions which are 
not more favourable to life probably less so from in- 
creased competition and difficulty in gaining a liveli- 
hood than existed between 1838-54, and this, together 
with the fact that some of the lives saved in childhood 
are probably unhealthy ones, which would have perished 
under the old sanitary conditions, accounts for the ex- 
pectation of life being now actually less for adults and 
old people than formerly. Females not being subject to 
the same conditions as males and living more at home, 
are likely to derive benefit from improved sanitation 
after reaching adult age, as is indeed plainly shown 
by the Life-Tables. After the age of 45, however, the 
unhealthy female lives saved in infancy begin to influ- 
ence the expectation of life. 

Although by the male Life-Table the expectation of 
life after 19 years is less now than formerly, the num- 



STATISTICS. 467 

bers living at each year of age up to 68 years are 
greater by the 1871-80 Table than by the 1838-54 
Table; after 68 the numbers living- are less. By the 
female Life-Table the numbers living up to the age of 
92 are greater by the new than by the old Table. So 
that there has been a great saving of life in recent 
years, not only of females, but of males also up to 
an age which embraces the most productive periods. 
Although, out of a given number of children born, more 
survive and reach an advanced age than formerly, it 
must not be thought that individual life is lengthened. 
As the Life-Tables show, individual life is shortened 
after reaching a certain age in both sexes, but the 
shortening takes place at a much earlier epoch for 
males than for females. 

We have already considered the reasons for stating 
the death-rates of males and females separately, and at 
groups of ages, as well as the death-rate for all ages 
and both sexes, when it is necessary to set forth the 
vital statistics of a community. The death-rates of 
infants under I year, and of children under 5 years, are 
most important, as they afford positive evidence of the 
sanitary condition of a community. The death-rates of 
infants under I year should be stated as so many deaths 
in a year to 1000 children born and registered, and not 
as so many deaths per 1000 children living under I 
year, as the census returns under this head are usually 
inaccurate. For England and Wales in the 10 years 
1871-80, the average number of deaths of male infants 
under I year to 1000 births was 163, of female infants 
134, of both sexes 149. 

The deaths of children under 5 should be stated 
as death-rates per 1000 living under that age. The 
average rate for male children in England and Wales 

HH 2 



468 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

(1871-80) was 68-14 P er 1000, for female children 58-10 
per looo, of both sexes 63-12. No doubt some of 
this infant and child mortality, which is preventible, 
is due to other causes than insanitary conditions con- 
trollable by local authorities, such other causes being 
maternal neglect, insufficient and improper nourish- 
ment, &c. Still, just as Dr. Farr said, a sustained rate 
of general mortality above 17 per 1000 always implies 
unfavourable sanitary conditions, so it may be said that 
rates of mortality amongst infants and young children, 
which exceed the rates prevalent in the country gene- 
rally, are indications of bad sanitary conditions in the 
communities in which they occur. 

Besides the death-rates at various groups of ages, the 
death-rates from special diseases should be stated, both 
for all ages and at various groups of ages. The system 
of certification of the cause of death although still very 
incomplete, both from errors in diagnosis and improper 
nomenclature, and from want of certification amongst 
the very poor in large cities enables the death-rates 
from special diseases, or groups of diseases, to be stated 
with some approach to accuracy. The death-rates from 
the principal zymotic diseases, from tuberculosis, 
phthisis, and acute diseases of the lungs, afford the best 
evidence of sanitary condition. The principal zymotic 
diseases are : small-pox, measles, scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, whooping-cough, typhus, enteric fever, simple 
continued fever, diarrhoea and dysentery, and cholera. 
Enteric fever mortality is the test par excellence of sani- 
tary condition, caused as it is by specific faecal contami- 
nation of air and water ; whilst diarrhoea with its special 
incidence on young children, is notably associated with 
insanitary surroundings. The other zymotic diseases, 
although probably favoured in their onset and fatality 



STATISTICS. 



469 



by unhygienic conditions, also indicate, when the mor- 
tality from them is high, a failure on the part of the 
sanitary authority to control their spread by disinfection 
and isolation. Tuberculosis, phthisis, and acute dis- 
eases of the lungs, are most prevalent and most fatal 
amongst communities where overcrowding in dwellings 
or workshops is allowed to exist, or where sites are 
damp and the subsoil saturated with water. They may 
thus be taken as evidence of a certain class of insanitary 
conditions, usually associated with poor town populations. 



Annual deith-rate per IOOO in the IO years 1871-80. 





ENGLAND AND 
WALES (PERSONS). 


LONDON (PERSONS). 


All Causes 


21-27 


22-37 


Small-pox . 


0-24 


0-44 


Measles . 


0-38 


0-51 


Scarlet Fever 


0-72 


o-5o 


Diphtheria 


O'I2 


0-12 


Whooping Cough . 


0-51 


0-81 


Typhus . 


0-06 


0-05 


Enteric Fever 


0-32 


0-24 


Simple Continued Fever 


O-II 


0-07 


Diarrhoea and Dysentery 


o 91 


0-94 


Cholera . 


0-03 


0-04 


Zymotic Diseases 


3'47 


3-90 


Phthisis . 


2-12 


2-51 


Other Tubercular Diseases 


077 


0-98 


Diseases of the Respiratory 






System 


376 


4-60 



The number of deaths at a special age-period, or 
from a special disease, must not be stated as a propor- 
tion of the total deaths from all causes ; for a fallacy is 
involved in attempting to establish a relationship be- 
tween two factors, both of which are variable. In the 



47O HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

first case also, the number of deaths at a certain age- 
period evidently will depend largely upon the number 
living- at the age in question, and this number (propor- 
tion to all ages) may as we have seen vary consider- 
ably in different communities. In the second case, too, 
the special disease may be one affecting- chiefly a certain 
age-period, and a like error will be involved. Dr. 
Ransome gives the following example of the fallacious 
character of such statements: a town A has a popu- 
lation of 100,000 with 2000 annual deaths, of which 
500 are caused by phthisis. A town B has a population 
of 100,000 with 4000 annual deaths, of which 1000 are 
due to phthisis. The general death-rate of A is 20 per 
1000, of B 40 per 1000. A's death-rate from phthisis is 
5 per 1000, B's is 10 per 1000; but the proportion of 
deaths from phthisis to total deaths is 259 to 1000 in the 
ease of both A and B; and judging from this test alone 
A would appear to suffer as severely from phthisis as 
b, although as a matter of fact its death-rate from 
phthisis is only half B's. 

In this chapter an attempt has been made to indicate 
briefly the errors and fallacies that arise from the wrong 
use of vital statistics for comparing or contrasting the 
health and sanitary conditions of different communities, 
or of different classes of the same community. The im- 
portance of a right use of statistics, and of avoiding in- 
complete and erroneous deductions which are, even 
now, far from uncommon in statistical expositions and 
controversies must be the author's excuse for attempt- 
ing in so limited a space to treat of a very complex 
subject. 

* Vital Statistics, by A. Newsholme, M.D. 



APPENDIX. 471 



APPENDIX. 

STANDARD SOLUTIONS FOR QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS. 

1. For determination of Free and Albuminoid Am- 
monia. 

A. Ammonium chloride, 0-003 1 5 grammes dissolved in 
i litre of distilled water free from ammonia. I c.c. 
= ooi milligramme of ammonia (NH 3 ). 

B. Nesshr's Solution. Potassium iodide, 35 grammes, 
mercuric chloride, 13 grammes, dissolved by boiling in 
1000 c.c. of distilled water. A cold saturated solution 
of mercuric chloride is then added until a slight perman- 
ent precipitate of the red mercuric iodide is formed. 
Solid caustic potash, 160 grammes, are then dissolved 
in the mixture, and the solution is rendered sensitive to 
ammonia by the addition, if necessary, of more saturated 
mercuric chloride solution. 

C. Alkaline Permanganate solution for Albuminoid Ammo- 
nia. Caustic potash, 200 grammes, potassium perman- 
ganate, 8 grammes, dissolved in one litre of distilled 
water. The solution is well boiled to drive off ammonia, 
and made up to i litre with distilled water free from 
ammonia. 

2. For determination of oxidisable matters. 
Permanganate solution. Potassium permanganate, 0*395 

grammes, dissolved in I litre of distilled water. I c.c. 
used with acid, yields O'l milligramme of oxygen, and 
oxidises o 2875 milligramme nitrous acid (HNO 2 ). 100 
c.c. are exactly decolorised by 100 c.c. of oxalic acid 



472 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

solution (07875 gramme of crystallised oxalic acid in I 
litre of distilled water). 

3. For determination of chlorine. 

Silver Nitrate, 4788 grammes, dissolved in I litre of 
distilled water, i c.c.= i milligramme of chlorine = 
1*65 milligrammes of sodium chloride. 

4. For determination of hardness. 

Soft soap, 17 grammes, dissolved in I litre of distilled 
water and methylated spirit (35 per cent.). The solu- 
tion is graduated with a standard solution of calcium 
chloride (i'i I gramme to I litre). I c.c.= I milligramme 
calcium carbonate (CaCO 3 ). 

5. For determination of nitrates. 

Pure sulphuric acid 8 vols., and pure phenol (carbolic 
acid) i vol., are mixed, and then heated for several hours 
at 100 C. One volume of this solution is mixed with 3 
volumes of distilled water for use. 

6. For determination of carbonic acid. 
Crystallised oxalic acid, 2-84 grammes, dissolved in 

I litre of distilled water, i c.c. exactly neutralises 1-26 
milligrammes of lime (CaO)=O'5 c.c. of carbonic acid 
(CO 2 ) at o C. 

The standard soap solution, the standard perman- 
ganate solution for oxidisable matters, and the standard 
oxalic acid solutions must be freshly prepared, as when 
kept in stock they rapidly deteriorate. 



APPENDIX. 473 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
LENGTH. 

i metre = 10 decimetres = 100 centimetres = IOOO 

millimetres = 39*37 inches. 
I kilometre = 1000 metres = 1094 yards = f mile 

(nearly). 
I mile (English) = 1760 yards = 5280 feet = 1-609 

kilometres. 

AREA. 

I square metre = 1076 square feet. 

I hectare = io,OOO square metres = 2-47 acres. 

CAPACITY. 

i decimetre cubed = I litre = 1000 cubic centimetres = 

35'3 fluid ounces = 0*22 gallon, 
i cubic centimetre = 0061 cubic inch. 
I fluid ounce = 28-35 cubic centimetres. 
i cubic metre = 1000 litres 35-3 cubic feet. 
I cubic foot = 6*2 gallons = 1728 cubic inches. 



WEIGHT. 

i cubic centimetre of distilled water at 4 C. (39'2 F.) 

weighs i gramme, 
i litre of water (1000 c.c.) weighs IOOO grammes (= 

1,000,000 milligrammes). 

* The Latin prefix indicates division. The Greek prefix indicates 
multiplication. 



474 HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

gallon of water weighs 70,000 grains (=. 10 Ib nearly). 

cubic foot of water weighs 61-25 Ib. 

gramme = 15*432 grains. 

kilogramme = 1000 grammes = 2'2 lb = 35*3 ounces. 

ounce = 437-5 grains. 

ton = 2240 R). 



NOTE. 
THE FLASHING POINT OF PETROLEUM OILS. 

The old act of Parliament prescribed 100 F. as the 
flashing point of petroleum oils, with what is called the 
"open cup " test. This was repealed in 1879, and a 
minimum of 73 F. with the "close cup" test was sub- 
stituted ; but the new test being more delicate and 
precise, the flashing points by the old and new methods 
are practically identical. The flashing point is defined 
as "the temperature at which a sample of petroleum oil 
commences to give off sensible quantities of inflammable 
vapour." 



SOAPS OF COMMERCE. 

Soft soaps are principally oleates of potash, but con- 
tain also some stearate of potash. 

Hard soaps are principally stearates of soda, but they 
contain, besides, a little oleate of soda, also palmitate 
and resinate of soda, where palm oil and resin are used 
in their manufacture. 



INDEX. 



" A. B. C." process, 180 

Absinthe, 360 

Actinomycosis, 389 

" After-flush " for valve W.C., 120 

Age and sex distribution, 457-460 

Ague, 70, 215, 303 

Air, see Table of Contents 

Albo-carbon light, 279 

Albuminates, 309-311 

Albuminoid ammonia (Wanklyn's) 
process, 83 

Albumoses, 388, 392 

Alcohol, effects of, 362-365 

Alkali works, 221 

Alkaloids, poisonous, in sewer air, 
207 ; in the body, 310; in meat, 
325 ; produced by specific mi- 
crobes, 391-393 

Alum, for purifying water, 61 ; in 
bread, 346, 350 

Alumina, sulphate of, as a sewage 
precipitant, 177 

Amines process, 179 

Ammonia, estimation of, in water, 
81 

Anderson's process of water filtra- 
tion, 59 

Anemometers, 259 

Aniline dyes, 366, 377 

Animal charcoal for filters, 61 

Anthrax, 326, 339, 387 

Anti D-trap, 120 

Aqueducts, i, 44 



Areas, " open " and " dry," for 

houses, 306 
Argand burner, 228 
Arnott's valve, 245 
Arrowroot, 352 
Arsenic in wall papers, 225 
Arsenical poisoning, 219, 226, 377 
Artesian wells, 2, 34, 36 
Artificial illumination, 276-282 
Ash-closets, 102 

Aspiration, ventilation by, 228, 238 
Atmospheric pressure, increase of, 

287 

Attenuation of viri, 388, 392, 393 
Averages, 451 

Bacillus, of pneumonia, 202 ; of 
tubercle, 200, 388 ; of malaria, 
215, 303, 391 ; of anthrax, 387; 
of glanders, 389 ; of diphtheria, 
389; of leprosy, 390; of Asiatic 
cholera, 390, 415 ; of tetanus, 
391 ; of enteric fever, 390 

Back-to-back houses, 201, 228 

Bacteria, in rain, 6 ; in drinking 
water, 89 ; in the soil, 183, 299 ; 
in air, 195, 262 ; in sewer air, 
208 

Baking powders, 346 

Barff's process, 45, 126 

Barley, 351 

Barometer, 289 

Bath heaters, 269 



476 



INDEX. 



Beans, 352 

Beer, 361 

Beggiatoa Alba, 75 

Bell-traps, 147 

Benham's ventilating globe light, 
246 

Biological examination of water, 
89 

Black-ash waste, 179 

Boilers, 273 

Bones, nourishment in, 320 

Boyle's valve, 245 

Branch drains, 130 

Brandy, 360 

Brass-founder's ague, 219 

Bread, 345, 346 

Breton's sewage farm, 189 

Bricks, capacity for holding mois- 
ture, 305 

British Association Sewage Com- 
mittee, 106, 189 

Burners, gas, 277-279 

Butter, 341 ; composition of, 342 ; 
examination of, 343 



Calder, river, pollution of, 17 

Candles, 281 

Carbohydrates, 312 

Carbolic acid, 437, 438 

Carbon block filters, 62 

Carbon in diets, 317 

Carbonic acid, in outer air, 193 ; 
in expired air, 197, 231, 232 ; in 
crowded rooms, 199; from com- 
bustion of gas, 205, 234 ; in wells, 
220 ; estimation of, 260 

Carbonic oxide, 205, 251, 268, 272 

Carferal, 63 

Carpets, 224 

Caterham fever outbreak, 69 



Cellulose, 314 

Cesspools, 26,99, 112; emptied by 
pneumatic pressure, 101 ; fatal 
results from opening, 210 

Chalk soils, 20, 304 ; borings, 35, 36 

Channel pipes, 131, 133 

Charcoal, wood, in sewer ventila- 
tors, 165 ; closets (Stanford's), 
103 

Cheese, 344 

Chicory, 354 

Childhood, clothing in, 375, 376 

Chimneys, use of, in ventilation, 
228, 238, 245 

Chlorine, estimation of, in water, 
79 ; as a disinfectant, 437 

Cholera, 414-416 ; from polluted 
water, 69, 70 ; in relation to 
underground water, 303 

Cisterns, 48-49 

Clay, London, 34 

Climate, see Table of Contents 

Clothing, 370-377 

Coal, 204 ; combustion of, 204 

dust, 217 

gas, 204; combustion of, 205, 

246, 277 ; escapes of, 206, 297 ; 
sore-throat from, 206 ; illumina- 
tion, 277-280 

miners, 216, 250 

Cocoa, 357 

Coffee, 353-355 

Cold, effects of, on body, 284 

Colza oil, 281 

Communicable diseases, see Table 
of Contents; microbial origin of, 
385 ; prevention of, 427-439 

Confectionery, colouring matters 
of, 366 

Conservancy systems, 98-111 

Contagia, the, 378-393 



INDEX. 



477 



Contagion of diarrhoea, 66, 212, 
419, 423 ; of enteric fever, 67, 
417; of malarious fevers, 71 ; of 
phthisis, 200 ; of epidemic pneu- 
monia, 201 

Convection, heating by, 270 

Cooking, 322-323 

Cooper's ventilator, 242 

Cotton, 370, 371 

Cowls for chimney tops, 239 

Cows' milk, 330-341 ; constituents 
of, 330, digestion of, 329, 331; 
fermentation of, 331, 332 ; pre- 
servation of, 331 ; diseases pro- 
duced by, 333-339 ; examination 
of, 339-341 ; sterilisation of, 339 ; 
adulterants of, 341 

Crops of sewage farms, 188, 189 

Cubic space in inhabited rooms, 
235 ; in hospitals, 441 ; estima- 
tion of, 259 

Curd of human and cows' milk, 
329 

Cysticerci, 321, 326, 327 

Dairies, 334, 336 
Dairy-farms, 189 
Damp-proof course, 305 
Daylight illumination, 274 
Deacon's waste-water meter, 45 
Death-rates, 455-470 ; calculation 
of, 455; significance of, 456; 
rural and urban, 458; in relation 
to density of population, 458 ; 
correction of, for age distribution, 
459; influence of birth-rate upon, 

460, 461 ; of combined districts, 

461, 462 ; at special age-periods, 
467, 468 ; of special diseases, 468, 
469; fallacies in connection with, 
469 ; on sewage farms, 191 



Deaths, in public institutions, 456; 
uncertified, 468 

" Dececo " closet, 115 

Defects, sanitary, in houses, 140- 
149 

Destructor furnace, 94, 104, 183 

Dew-point, 291 

Diarrhcea, 66, 67, 419-424 ; sum- 
mer at Leicester, 212; from 
meat poisoning, 325 

Diets, 316-320 ; milk, 330; train- 
ing, 369 

Diffusion of gases, 227, 237 

Diminishing pipe, 131, 142 

Diphtheria, 71, 158, 203, 300, 389, 
411-414; from milk, 335 

Dipstone trap, 144 

Disconnection of house drain, 131 

Disease poisons in sewer air, 160, 
161, 210-213 

Disinfection, 431-439 ; by boiling 
water, 432; by dry heat and by 
steam, 432-436 ; of sick room by 
gaseous air-purifiers, 436-438 ; of 
stools and sputa by liquid re- 
agents, 438, 439 
Distillation of water, 59 
Domestic dry refuse, removal of, 

93-95 

Drains, house, 129 ; branch, 130 ; 
brick, 140 

Drain sewers, in 

Drying power of air, 291 

D trap, 119 

Dublin, water supply of, 9 

Dust, in air, 195, 196 ; from trade- 
processes, 215-220, 255 ; house- 
hold, 222-226 

Dust-bins, 93 

Dysentery, 67, 419 



478 



INDEX. 



Earth system, Moule's dry, 105 

temperatures, in relation to 

diarrhoea, 212, 420 ; to cholera, 
415 ; to enteric fever, 418 
Electric light, 276, 281, 382 
Ellison's conical brick ventilators, 

244 

Endemic diseases, 382 
Energy obtainable from food, 318 
Ensilage, 189 

Enteric fever, 416-419 ; from pol- 
luted water, 52, 65, 67-69; at 
Croydon, 160; from milk, 333; 
from infected sewer air, 148, 160, 
213 ; relation of, to height of 
ground water, 301, 302 

Entozoa, eggs of, in water, 72 

Entozoic diseases on sewage farms, 
192 

Epidemic diseases, 382 

Ergot, 347, 350 

Erysipelas, 389, 402 

Eucalyptus globulus, 303 

Euchlorine, 437 

Evaporation of rainfall, 3, 20; of 
water on sewage farms, 190 

Excreta, human, 95 

Excretal emanations, 214 

Exercise, 367-370 

Exit shafts for foul air, 245, 247, 
253, 255 

Expectation of life, see Mean dura- 
tion of life 

Explosions, of boilers, 273 ; of 
lamps, 280 

Extraction, ventilation by, 249-256 

Extractives, 311 

Fabrics, injury to, by disinfection, 
435 



Factories, ventilation of, 254-256 
Faeces, composition of, 95 
Fans, extraction by, 250, 254; pro- 
pulsion by, 256 
Fats, 311, 312 

Fatty acids of butter, 342-343 
Fermentation, of organic matters, 
14, 209 ; vinous, 359, 379 ; ace- 
tous, 361 

Fermented liquors, 359-362 
Filters, domestic, 61-64 
Filter presses for sewage sludge, 

182 

Filtration, of water, 15, 16, 57-59, 
61-65 ; of sewage, 181 ; inter- 
mittent downward, 183 
Fireplaces, improvements in, 265 
Firman's dryer, 104 
Fish, sewage a food for, 172 
Flame illumination, 276 
Flap trap on house drain, 144 
Flashing point of oils, 280, 474 
Floors, 224 ; hospital, 446 
Floor space, 235 ; in hospitals, 441 
Flour, see Wheat 
Flush tanks, 108, 124, 135 
Flushing gates for sewers, 156 
Flushing rim for W.C. basins, 114 
Fogs, 2o5, 268 

Food, see Table of Contents; proxi- 
mate constituents of, 308, 309 ; 
excess and deficiency of, 318, 
320 

Foot and mouth disease, 338 
Foot-tons of potential energy, 318 ; 

of work, 369 

Foundations of houses, 305 
Frankland process of water analy- 
sis, 84 

Friction, loss of velocity in air 
shafts by, 248 



INDEX. 



479 



Frosts, as obstacles to sewage irri- 
gation, IQI 

Fume cremator, 94 

Fungi, in water, 77 ; in milk, 333 ; 
in flour and bread, 346-347 

Fur in boilers, 7, 273 

Furnace chimneys, connection of 
sewers with, 166 

Furniture, house, 224 

Gallon's grate, 270 

Gas, see Coal-gas 

cooking stoves, 323 

fires, 267 

governors, 280 

pipes, pressure in, 279 

works, nuisance from, 222 

Gelatine, 311 

Germ theory of disease, 379 

Germicides, 438 

Gin, 360 

Glanders, 389 

Glasgow, water supply of, 10, 46 

Gluten of flour, 345 

Goitre, 71 

Goux system at Halifax, 103 

Grates, open, 265-267; smokeless, 
267; ventilating, 269 

Gravel soils, 304 

Graveyards, pollution of water by, 
31; pollution of air by, 214; 
pollution of soil by, 298 

Grease trap, 138 

Greensands, 35, 38 

Grenelle, well at, 37 

Ground air, 296 ; movements of, 
297, 300 ; impurities of, 298 

water, see Underground Water 

Gulley, yard, 136 

Gunpowder blasting, 216, 250; sub- 
stitutes for, 251, 252 



Hardness of water, 7, 31; estima- 
tion of, 86 

Heat, effects of, on body, 283 

Hendon cow disease, 334, 335 

Hesse's apparatus, 262 

Hinckes-Bird's window ventilator, 
242 

Hopper closets, 113; supply from 
water main, 52, 149 

Hospitals, 439-448 ; isolation, 447; 
temporary hut, 448 ; pavilion, 
444 ; exclusion of ground air 
from, 44.5 

Hospital wards, air of, 202 ; cubic 
space and floor space in, 441 ; 
oblong and circular, 441-443 ; 
warming of, 444; ventilation of, 
444 ; flooring of, 446 ; walls and 
ceilings of, 446 ; W.C.'s and 
sinks of, 445 ; disposal of refuse 
from, 447 

fevers, 203, 213, 384, 439 

Lariboisiere, 253 

Hot-water pipes, 253, 272, 273 

House drainage, 112-149 

drains, 129 

ITouses of Parliament, ventilation 
of, 256 

Humidity, relative, 271, 285, 291 ; 
excessive, 284 

Hydraulic mean depth, 152 

Hydrocarbons, see Fats 



Incubation period, 379 
Industrial dwellings, 230 
Inlet openings into rooms, 236, 244 
Inoculation, contagion by, 381, 384, 

397 
Intemperance, effects of, 363 



480 



INDEX. 



Iron, magnetic carbide of, 57, 63, 
181 ; spongy, 58, 63 ; protosul- 
phate of, as a sewage precipi- 
tant, 177 

Irrigation, sewage, 185-192 

Isolation of infectious diseases, 429 

Island climates, 287 

Italian rye-grass, 188 

Joints of drains, 129, 141 
Junction pipes, 130, 142 
Junctions, sewer, 155 

Kerosene oil, 280, 281 
Koch's postulates, 385 
Koumiss, 330 

Lamps, 280 

Lead, solvent action of water on, 

46, 47 

Lead pipes, 46 
Lead poisoning, 47, 72, 219, 225, 

361 

Lemon and lime juice, 365 
Leprosy, 390 
Lice, destruction of, in clothing, 

43& 

Life-tables, 463-467; old and new, 
466, 467 

Lime, as a sewage precipitant, 176 

salts in water, 7, 8, 86, 273 

Linen, 371 

Liver-fluke, 321 

Local Government Board, Model 
Byelaws for privies, 98 ; for 
cesspools, 100 ; for new streets 
and buildings, 229, 230 ; for 
offensive trades, 221 

London, water supply of, 2, 17 ; 
water companies, 15 ; basin, 
geological formation of, 32-35 ; 



shallow wells in, 150 ; sewers 
of, 151, 159 

Louvre ventilators, 242 

Lung diseases, from overcrowding, 
200 ; from inhalation of dust, 
216-219 ; from dampness of soil, 
300 ; from intemperance, 364 



Mackinnell's ventilator, 246 

" Made " soils, 298, 304 

Magnesian salts in water, 7, 8, 87 

Malaria, 70, 215, 303 

Manhole chambers on house drains, 

133 

Manholes, sewer, 156 

Manure, manufacture of, 103 ; 
earthcloset, 106 ; sewage, 182 

Margarine, 343, 344 

Marsh air, 215 ; water, 71 ; soils, 
203 

Mean age at death, 462 

duration of life, 462-467 

Measles, 406-408 

Meat, 320-327 ; constituents of, 
320; inspection of, 321; cooking 
of, 322, 323; preservation of, 
324 ; effects of diseased or un- 
sound, 324-327 

Mercury, bichloride of, as a disin- 
fectant, 438 

Metallic poisoning by water, 72 

Metals, determination of, in water, 

87 

Metropolitan sewage discharge, 
Royal commission on, 15, 169, 
185 

Micro-organisms, in river water, 
17 ; in drinking water, 67, 75, 
89 ; in soils, 183, 299 ; in sewer 
air, 208, 212; in meat, 325; 



INDEX. 



481 



pyogenic, 203, 384, 390 ; patho- 
genic, 212, 333, 386; destruction 
of, by steam and dry heat, 432 ; 
by boiling water, 432 ; by chemi- 
cal reagents, 438, 439 
Middens, 98 
Milk, 328 341 ; constituents of, 

328 ; digestion of, 329 
Mineral salts in food, 315 

waters, 357-359 

Miners, lung diseases of, 216 
Mines, ventilation of, 249-252 
Miquel, Dr., 6, 195 
Montgolfier's formula, 239 
Mountain climates, 285, 286 
Mustard, 366 



Naphthaline vapour, 279 

Nessler solution, 81, 471 

New red sandstone, 38 

Nitrates and nitrites, in well 
waters, 39 ; from oxidation of 
sewage, 181, 183, 189 ; estima- 
tion of, in water, 79, 84 

Nitrifying organisms, 183, 299 

Nitrogen, in faeces and urine, 95 ; 
in crops of sewage farm, 189 ; in 
diets, 317 

Nitrous acid as an air purifier, 437 

Notification of infectious diseases, 
429 

Nottingham, pail system at, 102 



Oatmeal, 351 

Ocean climates, 288 

Offensive trades, 220-222 

Ogle's, Dr., comparative mortality 

statistics, 199, 217 
Oidium albicans, 333 
Old age, clothing in, 376 



Oolite, 39 

Ophthalmia, contagious, 427 

Organic matters, in air, 261 ; in 

soils, 299 ; in water, 82 ; in the 

breath, 197, 231 ; from the skin, 

202 
Organic vapours in cesspools and 

sewers, 207 

Osier beds on sewage farms, 191 
Outlets for vitiated air, 245-247 
Overflow pipes, from cisterns, 49, 

66, 136, 147 ; from cesspools, 

112 ; from valve W.C., 121 
Oxidation, of sewage in rivers, 12, 

169 ; of sewage in the soil, 80, 

183, 189 
Oxygen, in air, 193, 194, 198 ; 

weight of, 285, 295 
Ozone, 194; determination of, 294 ; 

as a disinfectant, 437 

Pail system, 101 

Pan closet, 117; supply from drink- 
ing water cistern, 148 

Paris, emptying of cesspools in, 
101 

Pasteur-Chamberland Filter, 63 

Peas, 352 

Peat, 9, 37 
- acids, 47 

Pepper, 366 

Percolation of rain, 3, 20 

Perflation by wind, 227, 237 

Perkins' pipes, 273 

Permanganate process for oxidisa- 
ble matters in water, 83 

Petroleum oils, 280, 474 

Phthisis, produced by foul air, 200, 
201 ; by dust, 217 ; by damp 
soils, 301 ; climatic treatment of, 
286, 288 

II 



482 



INDEX. 



Phosphates in water, 81 

Pickles, 366 

Pipe sewers, 154, 155 

Plug closet, 122 

Pneumonia, 201 ; epidemic, 202 

Poisson's rule, 450 

Polarite, 57, 63, 181 

Pollution of rivers, n; of wells, 
26, 30 of the soil, 298 

Population, estimation of, 452, 
453 ; law of, 452 ; census of, 454 

Portland cement, 154 

Potatoes, 352 

Pouchet's aeroscope, 262 

Poudrette, 104 

Precipitants, sewage, 176 

Preventive inoculations, 388, 393, 
428 ; for rabies (Pasteur's sys- 
tem), 425 

"Previous sewage contamina- 
tion," 86 

Probable duration of life, 463 

Propulsion, ventilation by, 256 

Ptomaines, 310, 319, 325 

Puerperal fever from drain emana- 
tions of, 3, 20 

Putrefaction, in river waters, 14; 
of sediment in sewers, 112, 209 ; 
of meat, 325 

Quarantine, 430 

Rabies, 424-426 
Radiation, warming by, 264 
Rain, evaporation of, 3 ; percola- 
tion of, 3, 20 
Rainfall, 4 
Rain gauge, 292 

Rain water pipes, 129, 136, 147, 163 
Ransom's disinfecting stove, 434 



Regulator valves, 50, 120 

Relapsing fever, spirillum of, 390 

Relative values of series, 451 

Reservoirs, water, 9 

Respiratory impurity, permissible 
limits of, 282 

Rest, after exercise, 368 

Rice, 352 

Ridge and furrow system, 187 

Rivers, 10; pollution of, n ; self- 
purification of, 13 

Rivers Pollution Commission, 13, 
25, 45' 63, 65, 85, 86, 97, 173, 

195 

Roberts' rain water separator, 6 
Roburite, 251 
Rome, water supply of, 2 
Rotheln, 408 
Rye, 351 



Safe-tray to W.C., 123 

Sago, 352 

Scarlet fever, 403-406 ; from milk, 

334 

Scavenging, 92, 196 
Schizomycetes, 379 
School desks and books, 275 
Schools, ventilation of, 257 ; light- 
ing of, 274 

Scurvy, 314, 320 ; infantile, 315 
Sea, discharge of sewage into, 171 
Sea salts in tidal waters, 170 
Sewage of midden and water- 
closet towns, 97 ; average com- 
position of, 173 ; valuable in- 
gredients of, 175 ; sludge, 180, 
181, 182; effluent, 180, 181 ; 
manure, 182 ; farms, 186-192 
fungus, 75 



INDEX. 



483 



Sewerage, combined system of, 
151, 154; separate system of, 

154, 155 

Sewer air, 158, 159, 208; poison- 
ing from, 210; sore-throat from, 
211 ; cremation of, 165 

Sewer deposits, 160, 161 

gases, 66, 68, 207 

men, health of, 212 

ventilators, 163 

Sewers, 149-173; intercepting, 149; 
gradients of, 151 ; velocity of 
flow in, 152; capacity of, 151, 
152; shape of, 152; construction 
of, 153, 154; flushing of, 156; 
inspection of, 156 ; ventilation 
of, 157-167 ; movements of air 
in, 161 ; outfall, 153, 167, 171 

Sheffield, water of, 47 

Sheringham's valve, 243 

Shone's pneumatic sewage ejec- 
tors, 172 

Short sight in children, 274 

Siemens' regenerative gas burner, 
278 

Silica in water, 47 

Silk, 374 

Simple continued fever, 411 

Siphonage, 122, 128 

Siphon flush tank (Field's), 124, 131 

gulley, 136 

inverted, 44, 167 

traps, 113, 136 ; disconnect- 
ing, 132, 133, 145 

Sites of houses, 298, 300, 304, 305 

Skin, care of the, 368 

Slop-sinks, 126, 445 

Slop waters, 97, 106 ; disposal of, 
1 06 

Small-pox, 394-403 ; hospitals, 394, 
396, 447 



Smoke, prevention of 267 

Soap, 8, 374, 474 ; paraffin, 374 

Softness of water, 7 

Soil gauge, 20 

pipe intercepter, 128 

ventilator, 127, 147, 163 

Soil-pipes, 126, 145 

Soils, 296; for filter beds, 184; for 
sewage farms, 186 ; sand, 296, 
304 ; clay, 304 ; chalk, 304 ; 
favourable to diarrhoea, 422 

Sporulation of bacteria, 380 

Springs, 18 ; mineral, 19 

Spring waters, 39 

Standard solutions, 471, 472 

Starch grains, microscopic appear- 
ances of, 347, 348, 351, 352 

Starches, 313 

Statistical fallacies, 450, 454, 456, 

457' 46i, 4 6 9 

Statistics, see Table of Contents 
Steam, superheated, disinfection 

by, 433 

blast for ventilation, 253 

pipes, 272 

Steamships, ventilation of, 253 

Steining of wells, 30, 32 

Storm overflows to sewers, 151 

Stoves, close, 271 ; ventilating 
271 ; cast iron, 272 ; fire-clay, 
272 

Stream, definition of, under R.P.P. 
Act, 168 

Streptococcus, of scarlet fever, 334, 
391 ; of erysipelas, 389 ; of vac- 
cinia, 390 

Sub-irrigation, 107 

Subsoil, drying of the, 150 ; pollu- 
tion of, 150 ; drainage of, 154, 

299, 30. 3<H> 305 
Sugars, 312 

112 



4 8 4 



INDEX. 



Sulphurous acid in air, 206, 234 ; 

as an air-purifier, 436 
Sunlight, absence of, 229 

burners, 247 

Sunshine recorder, 293 

Surface water, 136 

Susceptibility to disease, 383, 384, 

413, 428 

Swindon, old and new, 300 
Sylvester's system of ventilation, 

238 

Tank sewer, 171 

Tanks, sewage, 171 ; precipitation, 
178 

Tannin, of tea, 355 ; of wines, 361 

Tapioca, 352 

Tea, 355, 356 

Testing of drain and soil pipes, 135 

Thames, pollution of, 168 

Thermometers, wet and dry bulb, 
291 ; maximum and minimum, 
293 ; solar, 293 ; terrestrial radi- 
ation, 293 

Tidal rivers, sewage in, 170 

Tide valve, for house drain, 133 ; 
for sewers, 171 

Tin miners, 218 

Tobin's tube, 243 

Tonsillitis, acute, from foul air, 203 

Touneaux for reception of cesspool 
liquids, 101 

Traps, efficiency of, 139 

Trichina spiralis, 321, 327 

Tropical climates, 284 

Trough closet, 124 

Tube wells, 31 

Tubercle, bacillus of, 200, 388 ; in 
cows' milk, 337 

Tubercular peritonitis from milk, 
338 



Tuberculosis, 217, 389; from cows' 

milk, 336-338 ; from meat, 327 
Tumbling bay and flap valve, 166 
Typhoid fever, see Enteric fever 
Typhus, 410, 411 ; in unventilated 

dwellings, 229 
Tyrotoxicon, 344 

Under-drains for filter beds, 184 
Underground water, 19, 26 ; curve 
of, 21, 28 ; varying level of, 19 

297> 30i, 3 02 

Upland surface waters, 8, 37 
Urea, fermentation of, 81, 96 
Urinals, 125 
Urinary calculi, 71 
Urine, composition of, 96 

Vaccination, 397-403 

Valve closet, 119 

Vegetable acids, 314, 353, 365 

Vegetarianism, 310 

Vegetation, effect of, on climate. 

288, 304 
Ventilation, see Table of Contents 

of soil-drains and pipes, 127 

Vinegar, 365 

Vital statistics, 452-470 

Voelcker, Dr., on sewage manures, 

96, 106 

Wakefield, water supply of, 17, 57 

Wall-papers, 225, 226 

Walls of houses, 305, 306 

Wanklyn's process of water analy- 
sis, 83, 261 

Washington Lyon's steam disin- 
fector, 434 

Wash-out closet, 114 

Waste-pipes, 136, 147 

Waste water meter (Deacon's), 45 



INDEX. 



485 



Waste waters, house, 97 ; manu- 
factory, 97 

Water, see Table of Contents ; 
waste of, 43, 45 ; constant ser- 
vice of, 51; intermittent service 
of, 48 ; sterilisation of, 60 ; ex- 
amination of, 73-91 ; subsoil, 
291 ; as food, 315 
Water-bearing strata, 32 
Water-carriage system, 111-167 
Water-closets, 112-125 ; flushing 

of, 52, 116, 123 
Water-gas, 268, 279 
Water-mains, 44 
Water-pipes, 52 
Waterproof materials, 374 
Water-softening processes, 55 
Water-vapour in air, 291, 292, 294 
Water-waste preventers, 116 
Weight of the air, 294 
Weights and measures, 473 
Wells, 24-37 ; shallow, 24 ; of 
Munich, 291 ; deep, 32; artesian, 
34, 36; tube, 31 



Well-waters, 42, 66 

Welsbach incandescent gas burner, 

279 

Wheat flour, 345-350 
Whisky, 360 
Whooping cough, 409 
Willich's formula, 465 
Wiltshire cow disease, 335 
Windows in school-rooms, 274 
Winds, as ventilating agents, 227, 

237, 238; effects of, on body, 285 
W'ines, 360, 361 
Wool, 37 J -374 

Woolsorter's disease, sec Anthrax 
Work, average day's, 369, 370 

Yeast, in bread making, 345, 346; 

in fermenting liquors, 359, 361 
Yellow fever, 71 

Zinc cisterns, 49 

soil-pipes, 145 

Zymotic diseases, 202, 381 ; death- 
rates from, 468 



SELECTED LIST 

OF 

NEW AND RECENT WORKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

H. K. LEWIS, 

136 GOWER STREET, LONDON, W.C. 

(ESTABLISHED 1844) 

%* For full list of works in Medicine and Surgery published by 
H. K. Lewis see complete Catalogue sent post free on application. 



SIR WILLIAM AITKEN, KNT., M.D., F.R.S. 

Professor of Pathology in the Army Medical School. 

AN THE ANIMAL ALKALOIDS, THE PTOMAINES, 
U LEUCOMAINES, AND EXTRACTIVES IN THEIR 
PATHOLOGICAL RELATIONS. Second edition, crown 8vo, 
35. 6d. [Now ready. 

H. RADCLIFFE CROCKER, M.D. LOND., B.S., F.R.C.P. 

Physician, Skin Department, University College Hospital. 

TMSEASES OF THE SKIN: THEIR DESCRIPTION, 
PATHOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT. 
With Illustrations, 8vo, 2is. 



ANGEL MONEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Assistant Physician to University College Hospital, and to the Hospital for 
Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. 

HE STUDENT'S TEXTBOOK OF THE PRACTICE 
OF MEDICINE. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. 



T 



LOUIS C. PARKES, M.D., D.P.H. LOND. UNIV. 

Assistant Professor of Hygiene, University College, London; Fellow and 
Member of the Board of Examiners of the Sanitary Institute; Assistant 
Examiner in Hygiene, Science and Art Department South Kensington. 

UYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. Second Edition. 
With Illustrations, crown 8vo, gs. [Now ready. 

Lewis's Practical Series.] 



HENRY R. SWANZY, A.M., M.B., F.R.C.S.I. 

Examiner in Ophthalmic Surgery at the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland ; 
Surgeon to the National Eye and Ear Infirmary, Dublin, etc. 

A HANDBOOK OF DISEASES OF THE EYE AND 
THEIR TREATMENT. Third Edition, Illustrated 
with Wood Engravings, Colour Tests, etc., large post 8vo 

40005/90. 



New and Recent Works published by 



E. CRESSWELL BABER, M.B. LOND. 

Surgeon to the Brighton and Sussex Throat and Ear Dispensary. 

A GUIDE TO THE EXAMINATION OF THE NOSE 
WITH REMARKS ON THE DIAGNOSIS OF DIS- 
EASES OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. With Illustrations, 
small 8vo, 55. 6d. 



JAMES B. BALL, M.D. (LOND.), M.R.C.P. 

Physician to the Department for Diseases of the Throat and Nose, and Senior 
Assistant Physician, West London Hospital. 

A HANDBOOK OF DISEASES OF THE NOSE AND 
NASO-PHARYNX. With Illustrations, large post 8vo, 
6s. [Nearly ready. 



G. GRANVILLE BANTOCK, M.D., F.R.C.S. EDIN. 

Surgeon to the Samaritan Free Hospital for Women and Children. 

DUPTUREOF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. Second 
Edition, with Illustrations, 8vo, 35. 6d. 

ii. 
THE USE AND ABUSE OF PESSARIES. 

With Illustrations, Second Edition, 8vo, 55. 



ASHLEY W. BARRETT, M.B. LOND., M.R.C.S., L.D.S.E. 

Dental Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Dental Surgery in the Medical School 
of, the London Hospital. 

RENTAL SURGERY FOR MEDICAL PRACTI- 
V TIONERS AND STUDENTS OF MEDICINE. Second 
edition, with Illustrations, cr. 8vo, 33. 6d. [Now ready. 

Lewis's Practical Series.] 



FANCOURT BARNES, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

Physician to the Chelsea Hospital ; Obstetric Physician to the Great 
Northern Hospital, &c. 

A GERMAN-ENGLISH DICTIONARY OF WORDS 
A AND TERMS USED IN MEDICINE AND ITS 
COGNATE SCIENCES. Square i2mo, Roxburgh binding, gs. 



H. CHARLTON BASTIAN, M.A., M.D., F.R.S. 

Examiner in Medicine at the Royal College of Physicians ; Physician to 
University College Hospital, etc. 

PARALYSES: CEREBRAL, BULBAR, AND SPI- 
NAL. A Manual of Diagnosis for Students and Practi- 
tioners. With numerous Illustrations; 8vo, i^s. 6d. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Grower Street, London. 3 
E. H. BENNETT, M.D., F.R.C.S.I. 

Professor of Surgery, University of Dublin. 
AND 

D. J. CUNNINGHAM, M.D., F.R.C.S.I. 

Professor of Anatomy and Chirurgery, University of Dublin. 

THE SECTIONAL ANATOMY OF CONGENITAL 
CCECAL HERNIA. With coloured plates, sm. folio, 
55. 6d. 



HORATIO R. BIGELOW, M.D. 

Permanent Member of the American Medical Association ; Fellow of the 
British Gynaecological Society, etc. 

fJYNjECOLOGICAL ELECTRO - THERAPEUTICS. 
^ With an introduction by DR. GEORGES APOSTOLI. With 
Illustrations, demy 8vo, 8s. 6d. 



DRS. BOURNEVILLE AND BRICON. 

MANUAL OF HYPODERMIC MEDICATION. Trans- 
A -* lated from the Second Edition, and Edited, with Thera- 
peutic Index of Diseases, by ANDREW S. CURRIE, M.D. Edin., 
etc. Crown 8vo, 6s. 



STEPHEN S. BURT, M.D. 

Professor of Clinical Medicine and Physi-al Diagnosis in the New York Post- 
graduate Medical School and Hospital. 

UXPLORATION OF THE CHEST IN HEALTH 
*-* AND DISEASE. Post 8vo, 6s. [Just published. 



DUDLEY W. BUXTON, M.D., B.S., M.R.C.P. 

Administrator of Anaesthetics to University College Hospital and to the 
Hospital for Women, etc. 

ANAESTHETICS THEIR USES AND ADMINIS- 
" TRATION. Second Edit., with Illustrations, crown 8vo. 
Lewis's Practical Series.'] 



HARRY CAMPBELL, M.D., B.8. LOND. 

Member of the Royal College of Physicians; Assistant Physician and Patho- 
logist to the North-West London Hospital. 

I. 

THE CAUSATION OF DISEASE. An exposition of the 
ultimate factors which induce it. Demy 8vo, I2S. 6d. 

u. 

FLUSHING AND MORBID BLUSHING, THEIR 
PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. With plates and 
wood engravings, royal 8vo, xos. 6d. [Now ready. 



4 New and Recent Works published by 

ALFRED H. CARTER, M.D. LOND. 

Member of the Royal College of Physicians; Physician to the Queen's 
Hospital, Birmingham, &c. 

FLEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Fifth 

" Edition, crown 8vo, gs. 



P. CAZEAUX. 

Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, &c. 

AND 

S. TARNIER. 

Professor of Obstetrics in the Faculty of Medicine of Paris. 

OBSTETRICS: THE THEORY AND PRACTICE; 
including the Diseases of Pregnancy and Parturition, Ob- 
stetrical Operations, &c. Seventh Edition, with plates, and wood- 
engravings, royal 8vo, 355. 



FRANCIS HENRY CHAMPNEYS, M.A., M.B. OXON., F.R.C.P. 

Obstetric Physician and Lecturer on Obstetric Medicine at St. George's Hos- 
pital ; Examiner in Obstetric Medicine in the University of London, etc. 

EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES IN ARTIFICIAL 
c RESPIRATION IN STILLBORN CHILDREN, AND 
ALLIED SUBJECTS. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. 



W. BRUCE CLARKE, M.A., M.B. OXON., F.R.C.S. 

Assistant Surgeon to, and Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy and Operative 
Surgery at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, &c. 

THE DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF DIS- 
EASES OF THE KIDNEY AMENABLE TO DIRECT 
SURGICAL INTERFERENCE. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, 
75. 6d. 

WALTER S. COLMAN, M.B. LOND. 

Formerly Assistant to the Professor of Pathology in the University of 

Edinburgh. 

CECTION CUTTING AND STAINING: A Practical 
V Guide to the Preparation of Normal and Morbid Histologi- 
cal Specimens. Illustrations, crown 8vo, 35. 



ALFRED COOPER, F.R.C.S. 

Surgeon to the St. Mark's Hospital for Fistula and other Diseases of the 
Rectum. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE 
A RECTUM. Crown 8vo, 45. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, London. 5 
W. H. CORFIELD, M.A., M.D. OXON. 

Professor of Hygiene and Public Health in University College, London. 
TOWELLING HOUSES: their Sanitary Construction and 
*^ Arrangements. Second Edition, with Illustrations, crown 
8vo, 35. 6d. 



EDWARD COTTERELL, M.R.C.S. ENG., LR.C.P. LOND. 
QN SOME COMMON INJURIES TO LIMBS: their 
^ Treatment and After-Treatment including Bone-Setting (so- 
called). Imp. i6mo, with Illustrations, 35. 6d. 



CHARLE3 CREIGHTON, M.D. 

i. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF UNCONSCIOUS MEMORY 
1 IN DISEASE, including a Theory of Alteratives. Post 
8vo, 6s. 

II. 

PONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PHYSIOLOGY AND 
^ PATHOLOGY OF THE BREAST AND LYMPHA- 
TIC GLANDS. Second Edition, illustrated, 8vo, gs. 

in. 

DOVINE TUBERCULOSIS IN MAN: An Account of 
u the Pathology of Suspected Cases. With Chromo-litho- 
graphs and other Illustrations, 8vo, 8s. 6d. 



EDGAR M. CROOKSHANK, M.B. LOND., F.R.M.S. 

Professor of Bacteriology, King's College, London. 

UISTORY AND PATHOLOGY OF VACCINATION. 
** 2 vols., royal 8vo, coloured plates, 365. 



RIDLEY DALE, M.D., LR.C.P. EDI N., M.R.C.S. ENG. 
PITOME OF SURGERY. Large 8vo, los. 6d. 



HERBERT DAVIES, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Late Consulting Physician to the London Hospital, and formerly Fellow of 
Queen's College, Cambridge. 

THHE MECHANISM OF THE CIRCULATION OF 
THE BLOOD THROUGH ORGANICALLY DIS- 
EASED HEARTS. Edited by ARTHUR TEMPLER DAVIES, B.A. 
M.B. Cantab., M.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. 



6 New and Recent Works published by 
HENRY DAVIS, M.R.C.S. ENG. 

Teacher and Administrator of Anaesthetics to St. Mary's and the National 

Dental Hospitals. 

ftUIDE TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF AN^ES- 
u THETICS. Fcap. 8vo, as. 



AUSTIN FLINT, M.D., LLD. 

Professor of Physiology and Physiological Anatomy at the Bellevue Hospital 
Medical College, New York, &c., &c. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Fourth 
" edition, with 316 illustrations, royal 8vo, 255. 

{Just published. 

J. MILNER FOTHERGILL, M.D. 

i. 
^ MANUAL OF DIETETICS. Large 8vo, IDS. 6d. 

ii. 

THE HEART AND ITS DISEASES, WITH THEIR 
1 TREATMENT; INCLUDING THE GOUTY HEART. 
Second Edition, entirely re-written, copiously illustrated with 
woodcuts and lithographic plates, 8vo, i6s. 

in. 

INDIGESTION, BILIOUSNESS, AND GOUT IN ITS 
1 PROTEAN ASPECTS. 
PART I. INDIGESTION AND BILIOUSNESS. Second 

Edition, post 8vo, ys. 6d. 
PART II. GOUT IN ITS PROTEAN ASPECTS. 

Post 8vo, js. 6d. 

IV. 

THE TOWN DWELLER: HIS NEEDS AND HIS 

WANTS. Post 8vo, 33. 6d. [Now ready. 



FORTESCUE FOX, M.D. LOND. 

Fellow of the Medical Society of London. 

CTRATHPEFFER SPA, ITS CLIMATE AND 
WATERS, with observations, historical, medical, and gene- 
ral, descriptive of the vicinity. Illustrated, cr. 8vo, 2s. 6d. nett. 

[Just published. 

ALFRED W. GERRARD, F.C.S. 

Examiner to the Pharmaceutical Society, Teacher of Pharmacy and Demon- 
strator of Materia Medica to University College Hospital, etc. 

ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA AND PHAR- 

* MACY. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, London. 



JOHN GORHAM, M.R.C.S. 

Fellow of the Physical Society of Guy's Hospital, etc. 

TOOTH EXTRACTION : A manual of the proper mode 

of extracting teeth, with a Table exhibiting the names of 

all the teeth, the instruments required for extraction and the most 

approved methods of using them. Third edition, fcap 8vo, is. 6d. 

[Just published. 

GEORGE M. GOULD, A.B., M.D. 

Ophthalmic Surgeon to the Philadelphia Hospital, etc. 
A NEW MEDICAL DICTIONARY. A compact concise 
" Vocabulary, convenient for reference, based on recent 
medical literature. Small 8vo, over 500 pp., i6s. 

[Now ready. 

J. B. GRESSWELL, M.R.C.V.S. 

Provincial Veterinary Surgeon to the Royal Agricultural Society. 

VETERINARY PHARMACOLOGY AND THERA- 
PEUTICS. Fcap. 8vo, 55. 



BERKELEY HILL, M.B. LOND., F.R.C.S. 

Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College; Surgeon to University 
College Hospital, and to the Lock Hospital. 

I. 

THE ESSENTIALS OF BANDAGING. For Managing 
Fractures and Dislocations ; for administering Ether and 
Chloroform ; and for using other Surgical Apparatus. Sixth 
Edition, with Illustrations, fcap. 8vo, 55. 

n. 

PHRONIC URETHRITIS, AND OTHER AFFEC- 
^ TIONS OF THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 

Royal 8vo, coloured plates, 35. 6d. 



BERKELEY HILL, M.B. LOND., F.R.C.S. 

Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College. 
AND 

ARTHUR COOPER, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. 

Surgeon to the Westminster General Dispensary, &c. 

CYPHILIS AND LOCAL CONTAGIOUS DISOR- 
^ DERS. Second Edition, entirely re-written, royal 8vo, i8s. 

THE STUDENT'S MANUAL OF VENEREAL DIS- 
* EASES. Being a Concise Description of those Affections 
and of their Treatment. Fourth Edition, post 8vo, 2s. 6d. 



8 New and Recent Works published by 
NORMAN KERR, M.D., F.LS. 

President of the Society for the Study of Inebriety ; Consulting Physician, 
Dalrymple Home for Inebriates, etc. 

INEBRIETY: ITS ETIOLOGY, PATHOLOGY, 
TREATMENT, AND JURISPRUDENCE. Second Edi- 
tion, crown 8vo, I2s. 6d. [Now ready 



J. WICKHAM LEGG, F.R.C.P. 

Assistant Physician to Saint Bartholomew's Hospital, and Lecturer on 
Pathological Anatomy in the Medical School. 

A GUIDE TO THE EXAMINATION OF THE 
* URINE ; intended chiefly for Clinical Clerks and Stu- 
dents. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged, with additional Illus- 
trations, fcap. 8vo, as. 6d. 



T EWIS'S POCKET CASE BOOK FOR PRACTI- 
*? TIONERS AND STUDENTS. Designed by A. T. 
BRAND, M.D. Roan, with pencil, 35. 6d. nett. 



T EWIS'S POCKET MEDICAL VOCABULARY. 
Over 200 pp., 32mo, limp roan, 35. 6d. 



T. R. LEWIS, M.B., F.R.S. ELECT, ETC. 

'ellow of the Calcutta University; Surgeon-Major Army Medical Staff. 

PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL RE- 
SEARCHES. Arranged and edited by SIR WM. AITKEN, 
M.D., RR.S., G. E. DOBSON, M.B., F.R.S., and A. E. BROWN, 
B.bc. Crown 410, portrait, 5 maps, 43 plates including 15 chromo- 
lithographs, and 67 wood engravings, 305. nett. 



WILLIAM THOMPSON LUSK, A.M., M.D. 

Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women in the Bellevue Hospital 
Medical College, &c. 

THE ; SCIENCE AND ART OF MIDWIFERY. Third 

Edition, revised and enlarged, with numerous Illustrations, 
8vo, i8s. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, London. 9 

LEWIS'S PRACTICAL SERIES. 

These volumes are written by well-known Hospital Physicians and Sur- 
geons recognised as authorities in the subjects of which they treat. They are 
of a thoroughly Practical nature, and calculated to meet the requirements 
of the general Practitioner and Student and to present the most recent infor- 
mation in a compact and readable form ; the volumes are handsomely 
got up and issued at low prices, varying with the size of the works. 

HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. 

By LOLIS C. PARKES, M.D., D.P.H. Lond. Univ., Assistant Pro- 
fessor of Hygiene, University College, London; Fellow, and Member of 
the Board of Examiners of the Sanitary Institute; Assistant Examiner 
in Hygiene, Science and Art Department South Kensington. Second 
Edition, with Illustrations, cr. 8vo., gs. [iVoit 1 ready. 

MANUAL OF OPHTHALMIC PRACTICE. 

By C. HIGGENS, F.K.C.S , Ophthalmic Surgeon to Guy's Hospital ; 
Lecturer on Ophthalmology at Guy's Hospital Medical School. Illus- 
trations, crown 8vo, 6s. 

A PRACTICAL TEXTBOOK OF THE DISEASES OF 

WOMEN. By ARTHUR H. N. LEWERS, M.D. Lond., M.R.C.P. 
Lond., Assistant Obstetric Physician to the London Hospital ; Examiner 
in Midwifery and Diseases of Women to the Society of Apothecaries of 
London ; etc. Second Edition, with Illustrations, crown 8vo, gs. 

ANAESTHETICS THEIR USES AND ADMINISTRATION. 

By DUDLEY W. BUXTON, M.D., B.S., M.R.C P., Administrator 
of Anaesthetics to University College Hospital and to the Hospital for 
Women, Soho Square. Second Edition, crown 8vo. [Nearly ready. 

TREATMENT OF DISEASE IN CHILDREN: EMBODYING 

THE OUTLINES OF DIAGNOSIS AND THE CHIEF PATHO- 
LOGICAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CHILDREN AND 
ADULTS. By ANGEL MONEY, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physi- 
cian to the Hospital for Children, Great Ormond Street, and to University 
College Hospital. Second Edition, crown 8vo, los. 6d. 

ON FEVERS: THEIR HISTORY, ETIOLOGY, DIAGNOSIS, 

PROGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT. By ALEXANDER COLLIE, 
M.D. (Aberdeen), Medical Superintendent of the Eastern Hospitals. 
Coloured plates, cr. 8vo, 8s. 6d. 

HANDBOOK OF DISEASES OF THE EAR FOR THE 

USE OF STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. By URBAN 
PRITCHARD, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.S. (Eng.), Professor of Aural 
Surgery at King's College, London ; Aural Surgeon to King's College 
Hospital. With Illustrations, crown 8vo, 45. 6d 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE KID- 
NEYS AND URINARY DERANGEMENTS. By C. H. RALFE, M.A., 
M.D. Cantab., F.R.C.P. Lond., Assistant Physician to the London Hos- 
pital. With Illustrations, crown 8vo, los. 6d. 

DENTAL SURGERY FOR GENERAL PRACTITIONERS 

AND STUDENTS OF MEDICINE. By ASHLEY W. BARRETT, 
M.B. Lond., M.R.C. S., L.D.S., Dental Surgeon to, and Lecturer on 
Dental Surgery and Pathology in the Medical School of, the London 
Hospital. Second Edition, with Illustrations, crown 8vo, 35. 6d 

BODILY DEFORMITIES AND THEIR TREATMENT: A 

Handbook of Practical Orthopedics. By H. A. REEVES, F.R.C.S. Ed., 
Senior Assistant Surgeon and Teacher of Practical Surgery at the London 
Hospital. With numerous Illustrations, crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. 

%* Further Volumes will be announced in due course. 



10 New and Recent Works published by 
WILLIAM MARTINDALE, F.C.8. 

AND 

W. WYNN WESTCOTT, M.B. LOND. 

THE EXTRA PHARMACOPOEIA with the additions 
introduced into the British Pharmacopoeia 1885 ; and 
Medical References, and a Therapeutic Index of Diseases and 
Symptoms. Sixth Edition, limp roan, med. 241110,78. 6d. 

[Now ready. 



A. STANFORD MORTON, M.B., F.R.C.S. ENG. 

Senior Assistant Surgeon, Royal South London Ophthalmic Hospital. 

DEFRACTION OF THE EYE: Its Diagnosis, and the 
** Correction of its Errors, with Chapter on Keratoscopy. 
Third Edition. Small 8vo, 35. 



C. W. MANSELL MOULLIN, M.A., M.D. OXON., F.R.C.S. ENG. 

Assistant Surgeon and Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy at the London 
Hospital. 

CPRAINS; THEIR CONSEQUENCES AND TREAT- 
u MENT. Crown 8vo, 55. 



WILLIAM MURRELL, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Lecturer on Materia Medica and Therapeutics at Westminster Hospital. 

I. 

MASSOTHERAPEUTICS; OR MASSAGE AS A 

MODE OF TREATMENT. Fifth Edition, crown 8vo, 

4s. 6d. [Just ready. 

ii. 

WHAT TO DO IN CASES OF POISONING. Sixth 
Edition, royal 32mo, 35. 6d. [Just published. 



G. OLIVER, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

i. 

AN BEDSIDE URINE TESTING : a Clinical Guide to 
^ the Observation of Urine in the course of Work. Fourth 
Edition, fcap. 8vo, 35. 6d. [Just published. 

ii. 

HTHE HARROGATE WATERS : Data Chemical and 
Therapeutical, with notes on the Climate of Harrogate. 
Crown 8vo, with Map of the Wells, 35. 6d. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, London. 11 
K. W. OSTROM. 

Instructor in Massage and Swedish Movements in the Hospital of the Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania. 

MASSAGE AND THE ORIGINAL SWEDISH 
1U MOVEMENTS. With Illustrations, i2mo, 2s. 6d. nett. 

[Now ready. 



R. DOUGLAS POWELL, M.D., F.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. 

Physician to the Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest at 
Brompton, Physician to the Middlesex Hospital. 

DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND PLEURA IN- 
CLUDING CONSUMPTION. Third Edition, with 
coloured plates and wood-engravings, 8vo, i6s. 



FRANCIS H. RANKIN, M.D. 

President of the Newport Medical Society. 

TJYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD: Suggestions for the care 
1* ot children after the period of infancy to the completion of 
puberty. Crown 8vo, 35. 



SAMUEL RIDEAL, D.SC. (LOND.), F.I.C., F.C.S., F.G.S. 

Fellow of University College, London. 
I. 

PRACTICAL ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. The detection 
and properties of some of the more important organic com- 
pounds, lamo, 2s. 6d. 

n. 

PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY FOR MEDICAL STU- 
DENTS, Required at the First Examination of the 
Conjoint Examining Board in England. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 



E. A. RIOSDALE. 

Associate of the Royal School of Mines. 

POSMIC EVOLUTION : being Speculations on the Origin 
^ of our Environment. Fcap. 8vo, 35. 



SYDNEY RINGER, M.D., F.R.S. 

Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College; 
Physician to, and Professor of Clinical Medicine in, University 

College Hospital. 

A HANDBOOK OF THERAPEUTICS. Twelfth Edition, 
" revised, 8vo, 155. 



12 New and Recent Works published by 
FREDERICK T. ROBERTS, M.D., B.SC., F.R.C.P. 

Examiner in Medicine at the University of London; Professor of Therapeu- 
tics in University College ; Physician to University College Hospital ; 
Physician to the Brompton Consumption Hospital, &c. 
I. 

A HANDBOOK OF THE THEORY AND PRACTICE 
OF MEDICINE. Seventh Edition, with Illustrations, 
large 8vo, 2is. 

n. 

THE OFFICINAL MATERIA MEDICA. Second Edit., 
entirely rewritten in accordance with the latest British 
Pharmacopoeia, fcap. 8vo, 75. 6d. 



ROBSON ROOSE, M.D., F.R.C.P. EDIN. 

T EPROSY, AND ITS TREATMENT AS ILLUS- 
*" TRATED BY NORWEGIAN EXPERIENCE. Crown 
8vo, 35. 6d. 

n. 

GOUT, AND ITS RELATIONS TO DISEASES OF 
THE LIVER AND KIDNEYS. Sixth Edition, crown 
8vo, 35. 6d. 

in. 

MERVE PROSTRATION AND OTHER FUNC- 
TIONAL DISORDERS OF DAILY LIFE. Crown 
8vo, IGS. 6d. 



BERNARD ROTH, F.R.C.S. 

Fellow of the Medical Society of London. 

HPHE TREATMENT OF LATERAL CURVATURE 
OF THE SPINE. Demy 8vo, with Photographic and 
other Illustrations, 53. 



DR. B. S. SCHULTZE. 

T<HE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF DIS- 
1 PLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. Translated by 
J. J. MACAN, M.A., M.R.C.S., and edited by A. V. MACAN B.A., 
M.B., Master of the Rotunda Lying-in Hospital, Dublin. With 
Illustrations, medium 8vo, I2S. 6d. 



WM. JAPP SINCLAIR, M.A., M.D. 

Honorary Physician to the Manchester Southern Hospital for Women and 
Children, and Manchester Maternity Hospital. 

f)N GONORRHCEAL INFECTION IN WOMEN. 
w Post 8vo, 45. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, London. 13 



ALEXANDER J. C. SKENE, M.D. 

Professor of Gynaecology in the Long Island College Hospital, Brooklyn. 
TREATISE ON THE -DISEASES OF WOMEN. 
With 251 engravings and 9 chromolithographs, medium 
8vo, 28s. 



ALDER SMITH, M.B. LOND., F.R.C.S. 

Resident Medical Officer, Christ's Hospital, London. 
DINGWORM: ITS DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 

Third Edition, rewritten and enlarged, with Illustrations, 
fcap. 8vo, 55. 6d. 



JOHN KENT SPENDER, M.D. LOND. 

Physician to the Royal Mineral Water Hospital, Bath. 
THE EARLY SYMPTOMS AND THE EARLY 
TREATMENT OF OSTEO-ARTHRITIS, commonly 
called Rheumatoid Arthritis. With special reference to the Bath 
Thermal Waters. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d. 



LOUIS STARR, M.D. 

Clinical Professor of Diseases of Children in the Hospital of the University of 
Pennsylvania. 

UYGIENE OF THE NURSERY. Including the Gene- 
**ral Regimen and Feeding of Infants and Children, and the 
Domestic Management of the Ordinary Emergencies of Early 
Life. Second edition, with illustrations, crown 8vo, 35. 6d. 



W. R. H. STEWART, F.R.C.S., LR.C.P. EDIN. 

Aural Surgeon to the Great Northern Central Hospital; Surgeon to the 
London Throat Hospital, &c. 

DPITOME OF DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 
u THE EAR. Royal 321110, 2s. 6d. 



ADOLF STRUM PELL, M.D. 

Director of the Medical Clinic in the University of Erlangen. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF MEDICINE FOR STUDENTS 
AND PRACTITIONERS. Translated from the latest 
German Edition by Dr. H. F. VICKERY and Dr. P. C. KNAPP, 
with Editorial Notes by Dr. F. C. SHATTUCK, Visiting Physician 
to the Massachusetts General Hospital, etc. Complete in one 
volume, with in Illustrations imp. 8vo, 28s. 



14 New and Recent Works published by 
LEWIS A. STIMSON, B.A., M.D. 

Professor of Clinical Surgery in the Medical Faculty of the University of the 
City of New York, etc. 

A MANUAL OF OPERATIVE SURGERY. With 
" three hundred and forty-two Illustrations. Second Edition, 
post 8vo, los. 6d. 



JUKES DE STYRAP, M.K.Q.C.P. 

Physician-Extraordinary, late Physician in Ordinary to the Salop Infirmary; 

Consulting Physician to the houth Salop and Montgomeryshire 

Infirmaries, etc. 

I. 

THE YOUNG PRACTITIONER: With practical hints 
and instructive suggestions, as subsidiary aids, for his guid- 
ance on entering into private practice. Demy 8vo, ys. 6d. nett. 

ii. 

A CODE OF MEDICAL ETHICS: With general and 
A special rules for the guidance of the faculty and the public 
in the complex relations of professional life. Third edition, 
demy 8vo, 33. nett. 

in. 

lyTEDICO-CHIRURGICAL TARIFFS. Fourth edition, 
111 revised and enlarged, fcap. 4to, 2s. nett. 

IV. 

THE YOUNG PRACTITIONER: HIS CODE AND 

TARIFF. Being the above three works in one volume. 
Demy 8vo, los. 6d. nett. 



C. W. SUCKLING, M.D. LOND., M.R.C.P. 

Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics at the Queen's College, 
Physician to the Queen's Hospital, Birmingham, etc. 

f)N THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE 
w BRAIN, SPINAL CORD, AND NERVES. With Illus- 
trations, crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. 



JOHN BLAND SUTTON, F.R.C.S. 

Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy, and Assistant Surgeon to the Middlesex 
Hospital. 

TIGAMENTS : THEIR NATURE AND MORPHO- 
LOGY. Wood engravings, post 8vo, 43. 6d. 



EUGENE S. TALBOT, M.D., D.D.S. 

Professor of Dental Surgery in the Women's Medical College. 

IRREGULARITIES OF THE TEETH AND THEIR 

TREATMENT. With 152 Illustrations, royal 8vo, IDS. 6d. 



H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower Street, London. 15 
E. G. WHITTLE, M.D. LOND., F.R.C.S. ENG. 

Senior Surgeon to the Royal Alexandra Hospital, for Sick Children, Brighton. 

PONGESTIVE NEURASTHENIA, OR INSOMNIA 
^ AND NERVE DEPRESSION. Crown 8vo, 3 s. 6d. 



JOHN WILLIAMS, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Professor of Midwifery in University College, London ; Obstetric Physician to 
University College Hospital 

PANCER OF THE UTERUS: BEING THE HAR- 
^ VEIAN LECTURES FOR 1886. Illustrated with Litho- 
graphic Plates, royal 8vo, IDS. 6d. 



BERTRAM C. A. WINDLE, M.A., M.D. DUBL 

Professor of Anatomy in the Queen's College, Birmingham ; Examiner in 
Anatomy in the Universities of Cambridge and Durham. 

A HANDBOOK OF SURFACE ANATOMY AND 
LANDMARKS. Illustrations, post 8vo, 35. 6d. 

[Jitst published. 

EDWARD WOAKES, M.D. 

Senior Aural Surgeon and Lecturer on Aural Surgery at the London Hospital, 
Surgeon to the London Throat Hospital. 

I. 

DOST-NASAL CATARRH AND DISEASES OF THE 
NOSE CAUSING DEAFNESS. With Illustrations, 
crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. . 

n. 

NASAL POLYPUS: WITH NEURALGIA, HAY- 
n FEVER, AND ASTHMA, IN RELATION TO ETH- 

MOIDITIS. With Illustrations, crown 8vo, 45. 6d. 



DAVID YOUNG, M.C., M.B., M.D. 

Fellow of, and late Examiner in Midwifery to, the University of Bombay, etc. 

DOME IN WINTER AND THE TUSCAN HILLS 
" IN SUMMER. A Contribution to the Climate of Italy. 
Small 8vo, 6s. 



CLINICAL CHARTS FOR TEMPERATURE OBSERVATIONS, ETC. 
Arranged by W. RIGDEN, M.R.C.S. Price is. per doz., 
75. per 100, 155. per 250, 28s. per 500, 503. per 1000. 
Each Chart is arranged for four weeks, and is ruled at the back for making 

notes of cases; they are convenient in size, and are suitable both for hospital 

and private practice 



16 Periodical Works. 



PERIODICAL WORKS PUBLISHED BY H. K. LEWIS. 

THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY'S PUBLI- 
CATIONS. Annual Subscription, One Guinea. 

Report of the Society, with Complete List of Works and other information 
gratis on application. 



THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF DERMATOLOGY. Edited by Malcolm 
Morris and H. G. Brooke. Published monthly, is. per no. Annual 
Subscription, I2S., post free. 

THE NEW YORK MEDICAL JOURNAL. A Weekly Review of Medi- 
cine. Annual Subscription, One Guinea, post free. 

THE THERAPEUTIC GAZETTE. A Monthly Journal, devoted to the 
Science of Pharmacology, and to the introduction of New Therapeutic 
Agents. Edited by Drs. H. C. Wood and R. M. Smith. Annual Sub- 
scription, ios., post free. 

THE GLASGOW MEDICAL JOURNAL. Published Monthly. Annual 
Subscription, aos., post free. Single numbers, zs. each. 

LIVERPOOL MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL JOURNAL, including the Pro- 
ceedings of the Liverpool Medical Institution. Published twice yearly, 
35. 6d. each number. 

MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL. Reports of the Medical, Surgical, and Patholo- 
gical Registrars for 1883 to 1888. Demy 8vo, zs. 6d. nett each volume. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF PHILA- 
DELPHIA, Volumes I. to VI., 8vo, ios. 6d. each. 



%* MR. LEWIS is in constant communication with the leading 
publishing firms in America and has transactions with them for 
the sale of his publications in that country. Advantageous 
arrangements are made in the interests of Authors for the 
publishing of their works in the United States. 

MR. LEWIS'S publications can be procured of any Bookseller in 
any part of the world. 

Complete Catalogue of Publications post free on application. 



Printed by H. K. Lewis, Gower Street, London, W.C. 



r 




