Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



^RADCUPFE COIIIGE UBRAKY( 



WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

1960 



r 



Cllhat one can do 





Ulith a Chafing«Dish 



A GUIDE POr^ 

AMATEUR COOKS. 



By H. L. Sc- '.: 



SECOND F.DtTION— REVISED. 



NEW YORK: 
JOHN IRELAND, 

1 197 BROADWAY, >. 

1S9O. 



- f 









Hftrraid CaUege tOMBT* 
Beqneft oC Bdwud Bay 
o( TiOTt If . T. 



COPYRIOHT, 1889, 

H..L. 8AWTELLE. 



COPYRiQHT, 1890, 

■Y 

JOHN IRELAND. 



Thi Manhattan Pmm Print, IIOth St. a 11th Avi., n. y. 



n^HIS foretaste of Epicurean delights I dedicate to an old 

friend in the Admiralty, the delicacy of whose gastronomic 

perceptions is the best authority I can offer, for the excellency 
of these recipes. 



3 



n^HE spirit of each dish, and zest of all, 
Is what ingenious cooks the relish call, 
For though the market sends in loads of food, 
They are all tasteless, till that, makes them good." 

— Kings Cookery. 



a 



TTE that can grasp the golden mean, 
And is content to live between 

The little and the great — 
Knows not the wants that plague the poor, 
Nor the plagues that fret the rich man's door." 

— Horace, 



 T T E that will have a cake out of wheat, must needs 
tarry at the grinding." — Troilus and Cressida. 



(( 



TTTTE may live without poetry, music and art, 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks! 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 



^^TXTHAT does cookery mean? It means the knowledge of 
^ " Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and of Helen, and 
of Rebekah, and of the Queen of Sheba. It means knowledge 
of all herbs, and fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that 
is healing and sweet in groves, and savory in meat. It means 
carefulness and inventiveness, watchfulness, willingness, and readi- 
ness of appliances. It means the economy of your great-grand- 
mother, and the science of modem chemistry, and French art, 
and Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, that you are to see 
imperatively that every one, has something nice to eat." — Ruskin. 

It means, also, that much may be done by taking pains with 
a chafing-dish. 



« ^ 



A N Agate Chafing-Dish, of extra size, Is manufactured expressly 
-^^ for the recipes contained in this book, and it is preferable 
to any other . (except sterling silver), not only on account of the 
smooth, polished surface, but the much greater amount of heat 
to be obtained quickly. 



TT will be noticed that the recipe used almost invariably for 
^ the chafing-dish source, is two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixed 
smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; the spoon- 
fuls of flour should be scant, even tablespoonfuls, and those of 
butter, heaping. Good stock can be made at a moments notice 
by dissolving a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef in half a pint of 
boiling water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and two or three 
drops of extract of celery, and a small teaspoonful of onion 
juice. 



lO 



T ESPECIALLY recommend the use of Johnston's Fluid Beef 
^ for stock and sauces. It is an extract of the choicest beef, 
prepared (under letters patent) with scrupulous care, and is not 
only nutritive, but very palatable. It has a much more agree- 
able flavor than any of the other condensed preparations of 
beef, and for chafing-dish use it will be found to be almost 
indispensable, as many of the recipes depend for their excellence 
partly upon this invaluable preparation. 



II 



Clams. 

TJAVE twenty-five clams chopped fine; put in the chafing-dish 
-^ -^ two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the clams, with half a pint of their 
juice; season well with pepper and salt, and let them simmer 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Just before serving, add a gill of 
cream, and let it come to a boil; serve hot. 



12 



Lobster au Naturel. 

T^EAT the yolks of two eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of 
-*-^ butter, until smooth ; add a gill of cream ; season well with 
pepper and salt; stir in the finely-chopped meat of a freshly- 
boiled lobster; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot 
Do not let it boil, as that would cook the egg too much. 



13 



Lobster a la Newberg. 

n^AKE the nicest part of two small or one large lobster, cut 
^ into small slice, put in the chafing-dish with a tablespoonful 
of butter; season well with pepper and salt, pour over it a 
gill of wine ; cook ten minutes ; add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and half a pint of cream. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. 



14 



Lobster. 

CHOP or shred the meat of a cold, boiled lobster, tail and 
claws; pour over it the juice of two lemons, add half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the 
chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; when melted, 
add the lobster. Let it simmer for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. — Caterer. 



15 



Fish Roe. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with a 
^ tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add a shad roe 
(which has been previously boiled about ten minutes in salted 
water). Break up lightly with a fork, add the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, a small cup of grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, , pepper and salt Stir con- 
stantly until all is well mixed, and serve very hot. 



I6 



Rechauff6 of Fish. 

r^UT fine, any cold-boiled fish; put in the chafing-dish with 
^ two tablespoonfuls of butter; when melted, add a cupful of 
bread crumbs, two eggs beaten slightly, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Mix all well together; let it simmer about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, and serve. 



17 



Salmon a la Reine. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
^ melted, stir in gradually a tablespoonful of flour; stir until 
quite smooth ; add a gill of water, the juice of a lemon, pepper, 
salt, a small onion, minced very fine or grated, and the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine. Add a can of salmon or a 
pound of fresh-boiled salmon ; let it simmer about five minutes 
and serve. 



r« 



i8 



Curried Fish. 

/^OOK one tablespoonful of onion, cut very fine, in one table- 
^ spoonful of butter, five minutes. Be careful not to burn. 
Mix one tablespoonful of curry powder with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and stir into the melted butter. Add, gradually, half 
a pint of milk or cream, stirring constantly. Then add a large 
cupful of any kind of cold-boiled fish; let it simmer a few 
minutes, and serve very hot. 



19 



Saute of Scollops. 

/^UT in small pieces half a pint of scollops, which have been 
^ previously boiled about fifteen minutes; squeeze the juice 
of two lemons over them; add half a teaspoonful of cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter; put all in the 
chafing-dish. Stir constantly for about ten minutes, and serve. 



20 



BoucHES d'Huitres. 

13 OLL large oysters in pepper and salt; have ready some very 
^ ^ thin slices of salt fat pork ; wrap each oyster in a slice, and 
fasten with a wooden toothpick. Put in the chafing-dish, and 
cook just long enough to crisp the pork. 



21 



Oysters Sautes. 

Q ELECT a dozen large, fine oysters, drain the juice thoroughly 
^ from them, butter the chafing-dish well, and when very hot 
place the oysters in single layers. When brown on one side turn 
it upon the other, and brown that also. While cooking, keep 
adding a little butter; this, combining with the juice given out by 
the oyster, forms a brown skin in the chafing-dish, and is the very 
quintescence of oyster flavor. Season with pepper and salt; when 
nicely browned, serve all, oysters and skin, very hot. — Caterer. 



22 



Scolloped Oysters. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
^ gill of cream; put in a layer of oysters, well drained, and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoonfuls of cerealine (Cerealine Flakes), 
another layer of oysters, more cerealine and some small bits of 
butter; season with pepper and salt. Put on the cover, and cook 
from five to ten minutes. 



23 



Oysters a la Creme. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
^ pint of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, same quantity of 
pepper, a little powdered mace, or grated nutmeg, and two bay 
leaves. When it boils, sift in two dessert-spoonfuls of finely 
powdered cracker crumbs; add twenty-five oysters, blanched and 
drained, cook two minutes, and serve on hot toast 



24 



Mock Oyster Stew. 

n^AKE a small piece of salt cod, which has been soaked in 
-^ cold water over night, and cooked until soft (which should 
be done by simmering slowly, not boiling), shred it fine and 
mix well with it a tablespoonful of dry flour. Put it in the 
chafing-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dozen oyster 
crackers split ; pour over the mixture two cups of hot milk or 
cream ; season with pepper, and stir constantly five or ten 
minutes. 



25 



Scorched Salt Fish. 

T])ICK a small piece of the thickest part of a salt cod, which 
-^ has been soaked over night, into long flakes; dry with a 
napkin ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; 
when very hot, put in the flakes of fish, brown a little on both 
sides; serve very hot. It is a good appetizer. 



26 



Salt Cod Fish, Desiccated. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly; 
add half a pint of desiccated codfish, which has been soaked 
for an hour in tepid water. Add a gill of cream and a little 
pepper, and, if you like, a suspicion of grated nutmeg. Let 
it all simmer for ten minutes, stirring constantly. — Caterer. 



27 



White Fish a la Provencale. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add one tablespoonful of flour and a gill of milk 
or cream. Mash fine the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, which 
mix well with a teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste; stir constantly 
until it boils. Add a pound of cold-boiled halibut, cod, or any 
white fish, cut in small slices, let it simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 



28 



SAUTfi OF Oyster Crabs. 

T)UT one tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
•^ melted, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, season with 
salt and cayenne; when very hot, add half a pint of oyster 
crabs, cook one minute, and serve. 



29 



Frogs. 

UROGS can be purchased in the market prepared for cook- 
^ ing; cut them in halves, lengthwise; separate the legs. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, then add a gill 
of cream, then the frogs, well seasoned with pepper, salt and a 
little grated nutmeg. Put on the cover and cook for twenty 
minutes. A little more cream or milk may be added while 
cooking. — Caterer. 



31 



Beefsteak a la Mode. 

T)UT a pound of beefsteak, cut about an inch thick, in the 
■^ chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter has been 
melted, with two or three slices of lemon. Let it cook slowly 
five or ten minutes; then pour over it a gill of good stock, 
or the same quantity of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful 
of fluid beef has been dissolved,, also a gill of port wine. Allow 
the whole to simmer slowly ten minutes longer. When ready 
to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the steak. — Caterer. 



32 



Curried Veal. 

/^UT into small pieces, half an inch square, about a pound of 
^ cold roast veal; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, an onion, a tart apple, and a clove of garlic, all 
minced fine; then stir in a tablespoonful of curry powder, and 
half a tablespoonful of flour; add the meat and pour in half a 
pint of stock, or the same quantity of hot water, in which a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. Add a little 
lemon juice and salt, let it all simmer slowly a few minutes, 
and serve hot. 



33 



Calf's Liver Saute. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
-^ tablespoonful of onion, minced fine. When very hot, add 
half a pound of calfs liver, cut in slices, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt and dredged with flour. Saut^ on both sides, 
and serve hot, with a sauce made by beating the yolk of an 
Ggg with a tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne, and a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 



34 



Salmi of Game. 

T)UT the remains of a roast partridge in the chafing-dish, with 
■^ a small piece of raw ham chopped fine, and a small onion 
chopped fine. Put in a little lace bag, containing a clove of 
garlic (bruised), three bay leaves, three cloves and a blade of 
mace. Add half a pint of water, and let it all boil slowly half 
an hour. Remove the sac aux fines herbes, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, made into a smooth paste, with one table- 
spoonful of flour and a glass of white wine. Stir constantly a 
few minutes and serve. 



35 



Capilotade of Turkey. 

/^UT up the remains of cold roast turkey in small pieces. Put in 
^ the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly until smooth ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Add half 
a pint of stock or cream, put in the pieces of turkey, with five or six 
mushrooms ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes ; just before serv- 
ing, add a glass of wine. 



36 



Canvas-Back Duck. 

n^AKE a cold canvas-back, or any wild duck, which has been pre- 
-^ viously roasted for ten minutes in the oven ; divide into suitable 
pieces ; put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with two 
gills of port wine and a little currant jelly ; season with pepper and 
salt, cover the chafing-dish, and cook from five to ten minutes. — 
Caterer. 



37 



Ox Tongues, Deviled. 

/^UT into slices one of Libby, McNeill & Libby's'ox tongues; 
^ put a layer of them on an ordinary dinner plate, sprinkle over 
with dry mustard, a little cayenne, and two teaspoonfuls of salad oil ; 
place over this another layer of tongue and season as before. Repeat 
this until a sufficient quantity of the tongue has been treated ; let it 
remain for three or four hours. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 
chafing-dish, and when very hot add slices of tongue, and brown 
quickly. Add more butter as it is required. 



38 



Curry of Cold Roast Beef. 

CUT some slices of cold roast beef into rather small, square pieces, 
and dredge them with flour. Chop a small onion fine, and fry 
it in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a gill of 
stock, and one tablespoonful of curry powder ; put in the pieces of 
beef, and let all simmer ten or fifteen minutes. 



39 



Curry Sauce for any kind of Cold Meat. 

T])UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish with onegood- 
^ sized onion minced fine, eight or ten pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, two or three bay leaves. Stir until the onion becomes nicely 
browned, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
curry powder, a desert-spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, three gills 
of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been 
dissolved, or the same quantity of good stock. Let all simmer five 
or ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain, and stir in any kind 
of cold meat cut in thin slices, or dice. 



40 



Venison Steak. 

TJAVE the steak cut about an inch and a half thick. Lay it in the 
^ -*■ chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter have been 
melted. Season with pepper and salt. Add two gills of port wine, 
and a tablespoonful of pure red currant jelly. Cook until one side is 
done, then turn, and cook the other side. The degree of .cooking 

must depend upon your own taste. — Caterer. 



41 



Fritadella. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; cook for 
•^ about two minutes a tablespoonful of very finely minced onion ; 
add a cupful of bread crumbs, and a cupful of any kind of cold meat 
.minced fine; season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the 
grated yellow rind of a fresh lemon ; add half a gill of hot water, in 
which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved, or the 
same quantity of stock. Let all simmer for about five minutes, and 
just before serving, add two beaten eggs, well stirred in. 



42 



English Stew. 

/^UT any kind of cold meat, as for hash, sprinkle it with pepper, salt 
^ and flour, and lay it in the chafing-dish, in which a tablespoonful 
of butter has been previously melted, with some pickled cabbage or 
onions. Pour over it a gill of hot water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been dissolved, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
and a dessert-spoonful of taragon vinegar. Let all simmer for Kn 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 



43 



Bubble and Squeak. 

T2)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; slightly 
^ cook some thin slices of cold corned beef, well peppered ; 
add some cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of pickled cucumber and onion, 
mixed, and a small teaspoonful of made mustard ; serve hot. 



44 



Tripe. 

^RIPE should be chosen thick, fat and white, and should be 
^ boiled perfectly tender. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish; when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a gill of cream or a gill of milk; add three or four young 
onions, chopped fine, pepper, salt and a little made mustard. 
When well mixed, add half a pound or more of tripe, cut in 
short strips; let it all simmer about five minutes, and serve 
hot. A few oysters and a little grated nutmeg are an excellent 
addition. 



45 



Tripe Saute. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
^ very hot put in half a pound of honey-comb tripe, well 
boiled, cut in strips about three inches long. When brown on 
both sides, take out the tripe and add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a small onion minced fine, and half a pint of cream. Season 
well with pepper and salt; let it simmer a .few minutes, then 
return the tripe to the chafing-dish, and serve when hot. 



46 



Chicken a u Reine. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter and a pint 
-^ of the water in which a chicken has been boiled; season 
with salt and pepper. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with half a cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, 
soaked until soft in half a pint of cream or milk; cut the 
white meat of the chicken very fine; mix all together, and let 
it simmer for about five minutes, and serve. If not thick 
enough, add more bread crumbs. 



47 



Ham a l'Espagnole. 

T)UT rather a thick slice of ham in the chafing-dish, in which 
^ you have melted a little butter, brown on both sides, take 
out the ham and mix with the fat in the chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of very fine bread crumbs, and half a gill of 
good cider, not too hard; season with salt and pepper and a 
little chopped parsley. Mix all well together, put back the ham, 
and, when hot, serve. 



48 



Minced Collops au Naturel. 

ORDER from, the butcher a pound of beef from the tender 
part of the round, chopped very fine, quite free from fat, 
skin, etc. ; season with pepper . and salt ; put in the chafing-dish 
before it is hot; stir constantly until it becomes very hot, to 
prevent the meat forming in lumps. Saut^ it in its own juice 
for about ten minutes; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
small onion minced very fine, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a 
little butter. — Caterer. 



49 



Sweet-Bread and Mushroom Ragout. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoon fuls of butter; when 
^ melted, two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper; add a gill of cream, a cold- 
dressed sweet-bread, and a dozen mushrooms, cut into small 
dice. Let all simmer for about ten minutes, stirring often. 



50 



Veal Kidneys Sautes. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a 
-*- small onion, minced fine; when very hot add a veal kidney- 
cut in thin slices; let them cook for about five minutes, turning 
often. As soon as they are nicely browned, add a tablespoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, and either a tablespoonful of stock or a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef, dissolved in a little cream. Season 
with pepper and salt, and, if you like, just before serving, add 
a glass of Madeira or Sherry. 



51 



Chicken Terrapin. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish the dark meat of cold chicken, turkey 
^ or grouse, cut in small slice, with half a pint of cream or 
stock, and when it comes to a boil stir in the following mix- 
ture: two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into a smooth paste 
with a tablespoonful of flour and the yolks of three eggs, a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 
all mixed with a little cream or stock. Let it simmer a few 
minutes (not boil), and when ready to serve stir in a large 
wineglass of Madeira. 



52 



k 



Mutton or Lamb Rechauffe. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
^ melted, add, stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour; 
add a gill of water; when it boils, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of fluid beef, and one or two teaspoonfuls of mushroom or 
walnut catsup. Add the cold mutton or lamb cut in small 
dice, or thin slices, let it simmer about five minutes and serve. 



53 



Sweet-Breads. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
^ very hot put in the sweet-breads (which have been pre- 
viously boiled and prepared), cut in small pieces. Cook about 
five minutes ; take out the sweet-breads ; add gradually a table- 
spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, and a gill of cream. Stir 
constantly until you have a smooth sauce, return the sweet- 
breads to the chafing-dish, and serve hot. 



54 



Lima Beans. 

A DD to a pint of young Lima beans, previously bofled and 
-^-^ seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, half a pint of freshly 
gathered mushrooms. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 
chafing-dish; when melted, add beans and mushrooms with half 
a gill of cream ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes, and 
serve hot. — Caterer. 



55 



Tomatoes and Mushrooms. 

A DD to a pint of tomatoes, previously cooked, half a pint 
-^^ of mushrooms, a heaping tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of butter; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
for a few minutes, long enough to cook the mushrooms, and 
serve on slices of buttered toast. — Caterer. 



56 



Potatoes Rechauffe. 

/^UT half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes into slice; put in the 
^ chafing-dish with a tablespoonful of butter and half a pint 
of cream ; let it simmer about five minutes and then stir in a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and the beaten yolk of two eggs; let it simmer (not boil) 
and serve hot. 



57 



Bread Saut6. 

/^UT the crust from a thick slice of bread; put in the chafing- 
^ dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when very hot, brown 
the bread on both sides, take it out, and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and a 
gill of cream ; season with cayenne pepper. Mix all well 
together, and when very hot spread the mixture on the toast. 



58 



Saute of Mushrooms. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
^ melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly. 
When smooth, add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a pint of boiling 
water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. 
Add the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 



59 



Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter into the chafing-dish; when 
-^ melted, add two or three onions, chopped fine; cook two 
or three minutes; then add half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes, 
sliced, well seasoned with pepper and salt; saut^ a nice light 
brown. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. 



60 



Fried Tomatoes. 

/^UT fine, ripe, solid tomatoes in halves; dredge them with 
pepper, salt, and sifted cracker dust. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when very hot, cook the 
tomatoes on both sides and serve. A little onion juice is an 
improvement. 



6i 



Beignets de Pommes; 

n^AKE some soft, tart apples, peel and remove the pips ; cut 
^ in round, thin slices; plunge them in a mixture of brandy, 
lemon juice and sugar, until they have acquired the taste ; drain 
them, dust them with flour. Put in the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when very hot, fry the slices on both sides, 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon, and serve very hot. 



62 



Petit Pois. 



T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
^ melted, add a can of French peas; season with pepper 
and salt. Let them cook for about ten minutes. — Caterer. 



63 



Eggs a la Jardiniere. 

T)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
^ when melted, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms 
or truffles. Season with pepper and salt; add four or six eggs, 
beaten slightly. Stir constantly, until set, about two minutes, 
and serve hot, on toast. 



64 



Omelet. 

73 EAT three fresh eggs slightly with two tablespoonfuls of 
-^ cream; season with pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot, pour in the 
eggy holding the dish by the handle in the left hand; scrape 
up rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked eggy letting the 
liquid portion follow the knife. The moment it is sufficiently 
cooked, which will be in forty to fifty seconds, slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over rapidly, gently, 
and neatly to the side of the pan opposite the handle. Have 
ready a warm oval plate, reverse it on the pan, turn pan and 
plate over quickly together, and the omelet will rest on the 
plate. 



65 



Tomato Omelet. 

TV /TAKE the omelet according to directions on the preceding 
-^^-^ page. Just before pouring it into the pan, add very 
solid pieces of tomato, cut in small dice, over which a little 
onion has been grated. Season with a little cayenne. 



66 



Curried Eggs, 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; mince 
-^ two small onions very fine, and cook until they begin to 
brown ; stir in two dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, mix well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring quickly all the 
time; then add half a pint of veal or chicken stock, or the 
same quantity of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been disolved. When the mixture has simmered 
gently for about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of cream 
and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. When well heated 
through, serve. 



67 



Fricasseed Eggs. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
^ melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly, a 
sprig of parsley, cut fine, five or six minced mushrooms, half a 
pint of white stock, veal or chicken, or the same quantity of 
cream, in which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dis- 
solved. Simmer about five minutes, and add six hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in thick slices; boil up once, and serve hot. 



63 



Eggs a l'Espagnole. 



T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of the best olive oil, 
-^ in which cook a clove of garlic, chopped very fine; add 
three sliced tomatoes, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, two or 
three slices of smoked beef tongue, minced fine. When very 
hot, add three or four eggs, beaten slightly, stirring rapidly all 
the time. As soon as the eggs are set it is ready to serve. 



69 



Ham and Eggs. 

"QUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
^ melted, add half a pound of lean, boiled ham, cut in 
i small dice, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped chives or 

onions, add six, eight or ten eggs. Stir constantly until the 
eggs are cooked. — Caterer. 



70 



Eggs a la Ma^tre d' Hotel. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
^ hot, stir in three or four onions, cut very fine, and cook 
until a light brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring con- 
stantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a little finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Add six hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
quarters. When hot, serve. 



71 



Scrambled Eggs. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and 
salt; when hot, add a gill of cream and six eggs. Stir 






constantly for two or three minutes. Serve immediately on 
hot toast. 



72 



Welsh Rarebit. 

73 UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
-^ nearly melted, add a pound and a half of fresh cheese, 
cut in small dice, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cay- 
enne; stir all the time; add a small amount of beer to pre- 
vent burning. Keep adding beer, about half a pint in all. 
Serve hot on toast 



73 



Cheese Fondu. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
-*- melted, add a cup of fresh milk and a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, a salt-spoonful of dry 
mustard, a little cayenne. Stir constantly, and add, just before 
serving, two eggs, beaten light. 



74 



Warren's Prune Toast. 

/^UT the crust from rather a thick slice of Vienna bread; put 
^ in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and, when 
very hot, brown the bread on both sides. Pour over this half 
a pound of Warren's Prunes, which have been previously boiled 
long enough to enable you to remove the pits. Sweeten to 
taste. Add a glass of sherry, and serve with cream. 



75 



Wheatena for Breakfast. 

T)OUR, very slowly, one measure of Health Food Company's 
-^ Wheatena into six measures of slightly salted, actively 
boiling water. Boil one minute ; serve with cream and sugar. 
If to be served cold, use seven measures of water instead of 
six, and pour the mush into moistened moulds. Turn out 
when cold. It can also be cut in slices and fried in butter 
in the chafing-dish. I cannot praise too highly this delicious 
cereal. 



76 



3-EeON0MieAL DELIGAGIES-3 

CEREALINE FLAKES. 



Made from Selected White Corn. Superior to all other cereal preparations for making muffins, griddle 
cakes, delicious pastry, etc. Send for Cook Book. 

LIBBY, MCNEILL & LIBBY'S 

WHOLE OX TONGUES, IN CANS. 

Better than Tongues prepared at home, because more carefully cured and more evenly cooked, and free 
from waste. These Tongues are always ready for luncheons and emergencies, thus avoiding care 
and trouble. Send for Cook Book. 

WARREN'S CALIFORNIA PRUNES. 

Different from all other Prunes, foreign and domestic. Cured by a special process, which retains all 
the rich, original fruity flavor of the Prune. They are adapted both for cooking and eating from 
the hand, and are as economical as they are delicious. Send for Cook Book. 



H. M. ANTHONY, 

(SOLE AGENT) 

lOO & 102 Remade Sxrkkx, New York. 



KITCHEN FURNISHING. 



FOREIGN & DGMESTie 




Cutlery, 
Cooking Utensils, j ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ 

Copper and Tin Molds, ; Eddy's Refrigerators 




LEV/IS & CONGER, 

601 & 603 Sixth Avenue. 1338 8l 1340 Broadway. 



A COMPLETE 

-p, CHAFliVn ^ 



^ 0(;jpiT-^ 



CONtWTINQ or AN 

ACATE CHAFING DISH, 
OVAL, TRAY, 
SOUP BOWL, 
" BTRAtfER, 

SOUP PLATE, 
MKASURING CUP. 
I in nest Woodan Box, Se.OO par i 



N«w York Exchuga, 329 Fifth Av«nu*. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 


s^ 


5 




* 


^1 

.SZ7 1 







bat one ean do 







il:l2 a G\i^f\n^-^k\i. 



^ >^ )K 






iy\ (sxuide for 



^ 



AMATEUF^ GOOI^S, 



By H". L. S.v <'. ' 




'4 ' Jfl ' I ■ ■ 



■r—; r 



■' »<w 



COPYRIGHT 1889, 

Bit 

H L. SAWTELLE. 



- S ST'.^CL * CO. ^^ NT. 1«» Wl.UAM ST. , ll.y. 



"■.„■.{ 



'T^HIS foretaste of Epicurean delights I dedicate to an old 
friend in the Admiralty, the delicacy of whose gastronomic 
perceptions is the best authority I can offer, for the excellency 
of these recipes. 



/T^HE spirit of each dish, and /est of all, 
Is what ingenious cooks the relish call. 
For though the market sends in loads of food, 
They are all tasteless, till that, makes them good." 

^KlNGS Co(jkery. 



^^TTE THAT can j^Vasp the golden mean. 
And is content to live hetwetMi 



The Httle and the j^reat — 
Knows not the wants that plague the poor, 
Nor plagues that fret the rich man's door. " 



— HokACK, 



TJE THAT will have a cak(: out of wheat, must needs 
tarry at the grinding. — Tkoii i> and Ckessida. 



TjTE MAY live without poetry, music and art, 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks ! 
He may live without books — what is knowledjje but grieving ? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
Bui where is the man that can live without dining?" 



^'T67"HAT does cookery mean! It means the knowledge of 
^' Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and of Helen, and 
of Rebekali, and of the Queen of Sh«;ba. It means knowledge 
of all herbs, and fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that is 
healing and sweet in groves, and savory in meat. It means 
carefulness and inventiveness, watchfnlnt^ss, willingness, and readi- 
ness of appliances. It means the economy of your great-grand- 
mother, and the sci<iiu:e of modern chemistry, and French art, 
and Arabian hospitality. It means in tinr:, that you are to see 
imperatively, that e\er)' one has something nice to eat."- — Ru.skin. 

It means also that much may be done by taking pains with 
a chafing-dish. 



R 



COMPLETE Agate ChafingDish outfit can be found at any 
of the house furnishing stores, and the condiments required 
in the preparation of any of these recipes can be obtained from 
any of the Grocers whose advertisements appear in this work. 

Outfit : 

Agate Chafing-Dish, 

2o-inch Oval Tray. 
Soup Plate. 
Soup Bowl. 
Strainer. 



4 I 



( ( 



i ( 



Lalangh & Grosjean M'f'g Co., 19 Cliff St., N. Y. 



8 



JV N Agate Chafing-Dish is preferable lo any other (indeed it 
is almost indispensable in using tliese recipes), not only on 
account of the smooth, polished surface, but the much greater 
amount of heat to b^ obtained cjuickly. Tlie Lalange & Gros- 
jean Co., 19 Chff Street, N. Y., iiKinufactnre a Chafing-Dish of 
extra size especially for the recipes contained in this book. 



TT will be noticed that the recipe used almost invariably for 
the chafini^-disV sauce, is two tablespoonfiils of Hour, mixed 
smoothly with two tablespoonfiils of melted butter; the spoon- 
fuls of flour should be scant, even tablesjioonfuls, aiid those of 
butter, heaping. Good stock can be made at a moment's notice 
by dissolving a dessert-spoonful of Johnston's Fluid Beef in half 
a pint of boiling water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and two 
or three drops of extract of celery, and a small teaspoonful of 
onion juice. 



T ESPECIALLY recommend the use of Johnston's Fluid 
Beef for stock and sauces. It is an extract of the 
choicest beef, prepared (under letters patent) with scrupulous 
care, and is not only nutritive, but very palatable. It has a 
much more agreeable flavor than any of the other condensed 
preparations of beef, and for chafing-dish use it will be found to 
be almost indispensable, as many of the recipes depend for their 
excellence, partly, upon this invaluable preparation. An adver- 
tisement from the agents, giving particulars in regard to it, will 
be found among other advertisements in the back of the book. 



^- 



c 



LAMS. 



TTA\'E twenty-five clams chopped fine; put in the chafing-dish 
two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the clams, w^th half a pint of their 
juice ; season well with pepper and salt, and let them simmer 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Just before serving, add a gill of 
cream, and let it come to a boil ; serve hot. 



12 



Lobster au Naturel, 

rjEAT the yolks of two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, until smooth ; add a gill of cream ; season well with 
pepper and salt; stir in the finely chopped meat of a freshly 
boiled lobster ; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot 
Do not let it boil, as that would cook the egg too much. 



13 



Lobster a la Newberg. 

'PAKE tlie nicest part of two small or one large lobster, cut 
into small slice, put in the chafing-dish with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter: season well with pepper and salt, pour over it a 
gill of wine; cook ten minutes; add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and half a pint of cream. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. 



L 



OBSTER. 



/^HOP or shred the meat of a cold, boiled lobster, tail and 
claws ; pour over it the juice of two lemons, add half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the 
chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of fresh butter ; when melted, 
add the lobster. Let it simmer for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. — Caterer. 



15 



F 



ISH 



R 



OE. 



T) UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with 
a tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add a shad 
roe (which has been previously boiled about ten minutes in 
salted water). Break up lightly with a fork, add the yolks of 
two hard boiled eggs, mashed fine, a small cup of grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Stir con- 
stantly until all is well mixed, and serve very hpt. 



i6 



Rec 



HAUFFE OF 



F 



ISH. 



P'UT fine, any cold boiled fish ; put in the chafing-dish with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add a cupful 
of bread crumbs, two eggs beaten slightly, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Mix all well together ; let it simmer about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, and serve. 



»7 



Salmon a la Rhine. 

"p) UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, stir in gradually a tablespoonful of flour; stir until 
quite smooth ; add a gill of water, the juice of a lemon, pepper, 
salt, a small onion, minced very fine or grated, and the yolks of - 
three hard boiled eggs, mashed fine. Add a can of salmon or a 
pound of fresh boiled salmon, let it simmer about five minutes, 
and serve. 



Cu 



RRIED 



F 



ISH. 



f^OOK one tablespoonful of onion, cut very fine, in one table- 
spoonful of butter, five minutes. Be careful not to burn. 
Mix one tablespoon ful of curry powder with one tablespoon ful 
of flour, and stJr into the melted butter. Add, gradually, Half a 
pint of milk or cream, stirring constantly. Then add a large 
cupful of any kind of cold boiled fish ; let it simmer a few 
minutes, and serve very hot. 



Saute of Scollops. 

/^UT in small pieces half a pint of scollops, which have 
been previously boiled about fifteen minutes ; squeeze the 
juice of two lemons over them; add half a teaspoonful of cayenne. 
a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter; put all in 
the chafing-dish. Stir constantly for about ten minutes, and 
serve. 



20 



Bou 



CHES 



D H 



UITRES. 



■P)OLL large oysters in pepper and salt; have ready some very 
thin slices of salt fat pork; wrap each oyster in a slice, 
and fasten with a woodep toothpick. Put in the chafing-dish, 
aad cook just long enough to crisp the pork. 



Oysters Sautes. 

Q ELECT a dozen large, tine oysters, drain the juice thor- 
oughly from them, butter tlie chafing-dish well, and when 
vejy hot place the oysters in single layers. When brown on 
one side turn it upon the other, and brown that also. While 
cooking, keep adding a little butter: this, combining with the 
juice given out by the oyster, forms a brown skin in the chafing- 
dish, and is the very quintescence of oyster llavor. Season with 
pepper and salt ; when nicely browned, serve ail, oysters and 
skin, very hot. — " Caterer." 



Cerealine Flakes-The New Food. 

Scolloped Oysters. 

T^L'T in tile cliariiig-disli two tablespoonfiils of butter, and a 
gill of cream ; put in a layer of oysters, well drained, and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoonfiils of cerealine. another layer of 
oysters, more cerealine and some small bits of butter; season 
with pepper and salt. Put on the cover, and cook from five to 
ten minutes. 



Oysters a la Creme. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
pint of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, same quantity of 
pepper, a little powdered mace, or grated nutmeg, and two bay 
leaves. When it boils sift in two dessert-spoonfuls of finely 
powdered cracker crumbs ; add twenty-five oysters, blanched and 
drained, cook two minutes, and serve on hot toast. 



24 



M 



OCK 



o 



YSTER 



s 



TEW. 



n^AKE a small piece of salt cod, which has been soaked in 
cold water over night, and cooked until soft (which should 
be done by simmering slowly, not boiling), shred it fine and mix 
well with it a tablespoonful of dry Hour. Put it in the chafing- 
dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dozen oyster crackers 
split ; pour over the mixture two cups of hot milk or cream ; 
season with pepper, and stir constantly five or ten minutes. 



25 



Scorched Salt Fish. 

TpICK a small piece of the thickest part of a salt cod. which 
has been soaked over ni^'ht. into long flakes; dry with a 
napkin; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; 
when very hot, put in the flakes of fish, brown a little on both 
sides, sefve very hot. It is a good appetizer. 



L 



I- 



5ALT 



^OD 



ISH. 



D 



ESSICATED. 



"QUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; wlieii 
melted, add one tablespoonful of Hour, stirring constantly; 
add half a pint of dessicated codfish, which has been soaked for 
an hour in tepid water. Add a gill of cream and a little pepper, 
and, if you like, a suspicion of grated nutmeg. Let it all 
simmer for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. — "'Caterer," 



White Fish a la Proven call. 

■QUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, and a gill of milk 
or cream. Mash fine the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, which 
mix well with a teaspoonful of anchovy paste; stir constantly 
until it boils. Add a pound of cold boiled halibut, cod, or any 
white fish, cut in small slices, let it simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 



V 



4- 



S 



AUTE OF 



o 



YSTER <>^RABS. 



c 



T)UT one tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, season with 
salt and cayenne ; when very hot, add half pint of oyster crabs, 
cook one minute, and serve. 



29 



D 



RIED 



B 



EEF WITH 



E 



GGS. 



T^UT two tablespoon fuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with two 
gills of cream or milk, and quarter of a pound of dried 
beef, shaved very thin ; let it simmer for about ten minutes, 
then stir in rapidly three or four eggs ; serve as soon as the 
eggs are set. 



30 



Frogs. 



"PROGS can be purchased in the market prepared for cooking; 
cut them in halves, lengthwise ; separate the legs. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, then add a gill 
of cream, then the frogs, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a 
little grated nutmeg. Put on the cover and cook for twenty 
minutes. A little more cream or milk may be added while 
cooking. — *' Caterer." 



31 



B 



EEFSTEAK A LA 



M 



ODE. 



T])UT a pound of beefsteak, cut about an inch thick, in the 
chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter has been 
melted, with two or three sHces of lemon. Let it cook slowly 
five or ten minutes ; then pour over it a gill of good stock, or 
the same quantity of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful of 
'* Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been dissolved, also a gill of port 
wine. Allow the whole to simmer slowly ten minutes longer. 
When ready to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the 
steak. — *' Catkrkk." 



3* 



Calve's LivBR Saute. 

"^UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
tablespoonful of onion, minced fine. When very hot. add 
half a pound of calf's livtr. cut in slices, well seasoned with pep- 
per and salt and dredged with flour. Saute on both sides, and 
serve hot, with a sauce made by beating the yolk of an egg with 
a tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne, and a dessert-spoonful 
of lemon-juice. 



> 



Capilotade of Turkey. 

/^UT up the remains of cold roast turkey in small pieces. 
Put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly until 
smooth ; season with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Add half a pint of stock or cream, put in the pieces 
of turkey, with five or six mushrooms; let it all simmer for 
about ten minutes ; just before serving, add a glass of wine. 



Canvas-Back Duck. 

n^AKE a cold canvas-back, or any wild duck, which has been 
previously roasted for ten minutes in the oven ; divide into 
suitable pieces ; put two tablespoonfiils of butter in the chafing- 
dish, with two gills of port wine and a little currant jelly ; 
season with pepper and salt, cover the chafing-dish, and cook 
from five to ten minutes. — "Caterer." 



LiBBY, McNeill & Libby's Ox Tongue. 
LiBBY's Canned 'Ox Tongues— Deviled. 

pUT into slices one of Libliy, McNeill & Libby's ox tongues; 
put a layer of tliem on an ordinary dinner plate, sprinkle 
over with dry mustard, a little cayenne, and two teaspoonfiils of 
salad oil ; place over this another layer of tongue and season as 
before. Repeat this until a sufficient quantity of the tongue has 
been treated ; let it remain for three or four hours. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot 
add slices of tongue and brown quickly. Add more butter as it 
is required. 



Curry of Cold Roast Beef. 

r^UT some slices of cold roast beef into rather small, square 
pieces, and dredge them with flour. Chop a small onion 
tine, and fry it in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing- 
dish: add a gill of stock, and one tablespoonful of curry powder; 
put in the pieces of beef, and let al! simmer ten or fifteen 
minutes. 



Curry Sauce for any kind of Cold 



M 



EAT 



"QUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish with one 
good-sized onion minced fine, eight or ten pepper-corns, a 
blade of mace, two or three bay leaves. Stir until the onion 
becomes nicely browned, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
tablespoonful of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, a 
pinch of salt, three gills of boiling water, in which a tablespoon- 
ful of *• Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been dissolved, or the same 
quantity of good stock. Let all simmer five or ten minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Strain, and stir in any kind of cold meat cut in 
thin slices, or dice. 



40 



V 



ENISON OTEAK. 



TTAVE the steak cut about an inch and a half thick. Lay 
it in the chafing dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of 
butter have been melted. Season with pepper and salt. Add 
two gills of port wine, and a tablespoonful of pure red cur- 
rant jelly. Cook until one side is done, then turn, and cook 
the other side. The degree of cooking must depend upon 
your own taste. — ■'Caterer," 



r RITADELLA. 

"QUT in tiie chafing-dish two taLlcspoonfuls of butter; ccok for 
about two minutes a tablespuonful of very finely minced 
onion ; add a cupful of bread crunilis, and a cupful of any kind of 
cold meat minced fine; season with salt, pepper, a little grated 
nutmeg, and the grated yellow rind of a fresh li^mon ; add half a 
gill of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid 
Beef" has been dissolved, or the same quantity of stock. Let all 
simmer for about five minutes, and just before serving, add two 
beaten eggs, well stirred in. 



jNGLIS 



H S' 



TEW. 



AUT any kind of cold meat, as for hash, sprinkle it with 
pepper, salt and flour, and lay it in the chafing-dish, in 
which a tablespoonful of butter has been previously melted, with 
some pickled cabbage or onions. Pour over it a gill of hot 
water, in which a tablespoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" has 
been dissolved, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, and a 
dessert-spoon ful of taragon vinegar. Let all simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 



Bubble and Squeak. 

T^UT ill the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; slightly 
cook some' thin slices of cold corned beef, well peppered ; 
add some cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonfiil of pickled cucumber and onion, 
mixed, and a small teaspoonful of made mustard ; serve hot. 



T 



RIPE. 



'TpRIPE should be chosen thick, fat and wliite, And should be 
boiled perfectly tender. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish ; when melted, add a tablespoonfiil of flour. 
a gill of cream, or a gill of milk; add three or four young 
onions, chopped fine, pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. 
When well mixed, add half a pound or more of tripe, cut in 
short strips : let it all simmer about five minutes, and serve hot. 
A few oysters and a little grated nutmeg are an excellent 
addition. 



T 



S 



RIPE OAUTE. 



T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when very 
hot put in half a pound of honey-comb tripe, well boiled, cut 
in strips about three inches long. When brown on both sides, 
take out the tripe and add a tablespoonful of llour^ a small onion 
minced fine, and half a pint of cream. Season well with pepper 
and salt ; let it simmer a few minutes, then return the tripe to the 
chatinsj-dish, and serve when hot. 



46 



c 



HICKEN A LA 



R 



EINE. 



P 



UT in the chahnqr-dish a tablespoonful of butter, and a pint 
of the water in which a chicken has been boiled ; season 



with salt and pepper. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with half a cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, soaked 
until soft in half a pint of cream or milk ; cut the white meat of 
the chicken very fine; mix all together, and let it simmer for 
about five minutes, and serve. If not thick enough, add more 
bread crumbs. 



47 



r 



Jo 



H 



AM A L'Jl.SPAGNOLE. 



T^UT rather a thick slice of ham in the chafing-dish, in which 
you have melted a little butter, brown on both sides, take 
out the ham, and mix with the fat in the chafing-dish two table- 
spoonfuls of very fine bread crumbs, and half a gill of good cider, 
not too hard ; season with salt and pepper and a little chopped 
parsley. Mix all well together, put back the ham, and when hot, 
serve. 



M 



INCED 



Co 



LLOPS AU 



N 



ATUREL. 



ARDER from the butcher a pound of beef from the tender 
part of the round, chopped very fine, quite free from fat, 
skin, etc. ; season with pepper and salt ; put in the chafing-dish 
before it is hot ; stir constantly until it becomes very hot to 
prevent the meat forming in lumps. ' Saute it in its own juice 
for about ten minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
small onion minced very fine, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a 
little butter. — " Caterer." 



49 



Sweet-Bread and Mushroom 
Ragout. 

"P) UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
melted, two tablespoonfuls of llour, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper ; add a gill of cream, a cold 
dressed sweet-bread, and a dozen mushrooms, cut into small 
dice. Let all simmer for about ten minutes, stirring often. 



Veal Kidneys Sautes. 



"r)UT two tablespoonfiils of butter in the chating-dish ; add a 
small onion, minced fine; when very hot add a veal kidney 
cut in thin slices: let them cook for about five minutes, turning 
often. As soon as they are nicely browned add a tablespoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, and eitlier a tablespoonful of stock or a 
dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef." dissolved in a little 
cream. Season with pepper and salt, and, if you like, just 
before serving, add a glass of Madeira or Sherry. 



c 



HICKEN 



T 



ERRAPIN. 



T)UT the dark meat of cold chicken, turkey or grouse, cut in 
small slice, with half a pint of cream or stock, and when it 
comes to a boil stir in the following mixture : two tablespoonfuls 
of butter rubbed into a smooth paste with a tablespoonful of 
flour and the yolks of three eggs, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, 
a little cayenne pepper and salt, all mixed with a little cream or 
stock. Let it simmer a few minutes (not boil), and when ready 
to serve stir in a large wine glass of Madeira. 



52 



Mutton or Lamb Rechauffe. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
melted, add, stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour ; 
add a gill of water ; when it boils, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of "Johnston^s Fluid Beef," and one or two teaspoonfuls of 
mushroom or walnut catsup. Add the cold mutton or lamb cut 
in small dice, or thin slices, let it simmer about five minutes 
and serve. 



53 



Sweet-Breads. 

r)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
very hot put in the sweet-breads (which have been previously 
boiled and prepared), cut in small pieces. Cook about five 
minutes ; take out the sweet-breads ; add gradually a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, pepper and salt, and a gill of cream. Stir constantly 
until you have a smooth sauce, return the sweet-breads to the 
chafing-dish and serve hot. 



54 



Lima Beans. 

TV DD to a pint of young Lima beans, previously boiled and 
■ seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, half a pint of freshly 

gathered mushrooms. Put a lablespoonful of butter in the 

chafiny-dish ; when melted, add beans and mushrooms with half 

a gill of cream ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes and 
serve hot. — "Caterer." 



, OMATOES AN 



D M 



USHROOMS. 



TV DD to a pint of tomatoes, previously cooked, half a pint of 
mushrooms, a heaping tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of butter ; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
for a few minutes, long enough to cook the mushrooms, and 
serve on slices of buttered toast. — " Caterer." 



Potatoes Rechauffe. 

r^UT half a dozen cold boiled potatoes into slice; put in tfae 
chafing-dish with a tablespoonful of butter and half a pint of 
cream ; let it simmer about five minutes and then stir in a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and the beaten yolk of two eggs ; let it simmer (not boil), and 
serve hot. 



Bread Saute. 

OUT the crust from a thick slice of bread; put in the chafing- 
dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when very hot, brown 
the bread on both sides, take it out, and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and a 
gill of cream ; season with cayenne pepper. Mix all well 
together, and when very hot spread the mixture on the toast. 



)AUTE OF 



M 



USHROOMS. 



T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add a tablespoon ful of llour, stirring constantly. 
When smooth add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a pint of boiling water, 
in which a tablespoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" has been 
dissolved. Add the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 



OTATOES A 



LA L 



YONNAISE. 



T^UT three tablespoonfuls of butter into the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add two or three onions, chopped fine : cook two 
or three minutes; then add half a dozen cold boiled potatoes, 
sliced, well seasoned with pepper and salt ; saute a nice light 
brown. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of tinely 
chopped parsley. 



i\ 



Fr 



lED 



, OMATOES. 



/^UT fine, ripe, solid tomatoes in halves; dredge them with 
pepper, salt and sifted cracker dust. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when very hot cook the 
tomatoes on both sides and serve. A little onion juice is an 
improvement. 



Beignets de Pommes. 

'"pAKE some soft, tart apples, peel and remove the pips; cut 
in round thin slices; plunge them in a mixture of brandy, 
lemon juice and sugar, until they have acquired the taste; drain 
them, dust them with flour. Put in the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when very hot fry the slices on both sides, 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon, and serve very hot 



Petit Pois. 

"OUT two tablespoonfiils of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a can of French peas ; season with pepper and 
salt. Let them cook for about ten minutes. — "Caterer." 



Eggs a la Jardiniere. 

'P)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
when melted, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms or 
truffles. Season with pepper and salt ; add four or six eggs, 
beaten slightly. Stir constantly until set, about two minutes, 
and serve hot, on toast. 



■-». 



Omelet. 

"QEAT three fresh eggs slightly with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, season with pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot, pour in the 
egg, holding the dish by the handle in the left hand ; scrape up 
rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked egg, letting the 
liquid portion follow the knife. The moment it is suflficiently 
cooked, which will be in forty to fifty seconds, slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over rapidly, gently, and 
neatly, to the side of the pan opposite the handle. Have ready 
a warm oval plate, reverse it on the pan, turn pan and plate over 
quickly together, and the omelet will rest on the plate. 



(>s 



Tomato Omelet. 

"N^AKE the omelet according to directions on the preceding 
page. Just before pouring it into the pan add very solid 
pieces of tomato, cut in small dice, over which a little onion has 
been grated. Season with a little cayenne. 



Curried Eggs. 



"^UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; mince 
two small onions very fine, and cook until they begin to 
brown; stir in two dessert-Sjioonfuls of curry-powder, mix well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of Hour, stirring quickly all the time; 
then add half a pint of veal or chicken stock, or the same quan- 
tity of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of " Johnston's 
Fluid Beef" has been dissolved. When the mixture has sim- 
mered gently for about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. When well heated 
through, serve. 



F 



RICASSEED 



:^GGS. 



"r)UT two tablespoonfitis of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted add a tablespoonfiil of flour, stirring constantly, a 
sprig of parsley, cut fine, five or six minced mushrooms, half a 
pint of white stock, veal or chicken, or the same quantity of 
cream, in which a dessert-spoonful of "Johnston's Fluid Beef" 
has been dissolved. Simmer about five minutes and add six 
hard boiled eggs, cut in thick slices ; boil up once, and serve hot. 



p 



Eggs A uEspagnole. 

UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonfiil of the best olive oil, 
in which cook a clove of garlic chopped very fine ; add 
three sliced tomatoes, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, two or 
three slices of .smoked beef tongue, minced fine. When very 
hot add three or four eggs, beaten slightly, stirring rapidly all 
the time. As soon as the eggs are set it is ready to serve. 



H 



AM AND 



E 



GGS. 



"r)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted add half a pound of lean boiled ham, cut in small 
dice, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped chives or onions, 
and six, eight or ten eggs. Stir constantly until the eggs are 
cooked. — " Caterer." 



70 



Eggs A la MaItre dH6tel. 

T)UT in tlie chafing-dish two tablespoon fuls of .butter ; when 
hot stir in three or four onions, cut very fine, and cook 
until a light brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring con- 
stantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a little finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Add six hard boiled eggs, cut in 
■quarters. When hot, serve. 



Scrambled Eggs. 



"QUT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and 



r 



salt ; when hot add a gill of cream and six eggs. Stir con- 
stantly for two or three minutes. Serve immediately on hot toast* 



72 



Welsh Rarebit. 

T^UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when nearly 
melted add a pound and a half of very fresh cheese, cut in 
small dice, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cayenne ; shr 
all the time; add a small amount of beer to prevent burning. 
Keep adding beer, about half a pint in all. Serve hot on toast 



c 



HEESE 



F 



ONDU 



T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add a cup of fresh milk and a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, a salt-spoonful of dry mus- 
tard, a little cayenne. Stir constantly, and add, just before 
serving, two eggs beaten light. 



74 



Warren's Prune Toast. 



OUT the crust from rather a thick slice of \'Ienna bread; put 
in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and, when 
very hot, brown, the bread on both sides. Pour over tliis half a 
pound of Warren's Prunes, which have been previously boiled 
long enougli to enable you to remove the pits. Sweeten to 
taste. Add a glass of sherry and serve with cream. 



Wheatena for Breakfast. 

T^OUR very slowly one measure of Health Food Companys 
Wheatena into six measures of slightly salted, actively boil- 
ing water. Boil one minute; serve with cream and sugar. If 
to be served cold use seven measures of water instead of six. 
and pour the mush into moistened moulds. Turn out when cold. 
It can also be cut in slices and fried in butter in the chafing- 
dish. I cannot praise too highly this delicious cereal. 



Q# Economical Delicacies ^Q 



-CEREALINE FLAKES. 



Made from Selected W\nW ■ 
cakes, delicious [luslry. 



prepanitions for making muffins, gric 
Send for Cook Book. 



LIBBY, McNeill & LIBBY'S 

WHOLE OX TONGUES, in cans 



Better than Tongues 
from wasie. Tl 
and trouble. 



ithenns 



enly couked, and free 
UTycncies. ilins avoiding care 
Send for Cook Book. 



-WARREN'S CALIFORNIA PRUNES. 



Different from all olher Prunes, foreign or dnmestir. Cured by a special [irocess, whicli retains all the 
rich, original fruity rtivor of tbe Prune. Tliev are adapted both for cooking and eating from the hand, 
and are as economical as they are delicious. Send for Cook Book. 



H. M. ANTHON Y. 

SOLE AGENT, 

•100 & 102 Reade Street. New York. 



The lloaltli Food roiiipany 



A})j»ciid.^ a Ihi ()I .>L-vcral oi ii^ in;.>i iiiii'DrKin: rt)u(l>, witl. l<n<, ! ^t.ii'. nu-nt.^ ot >u\\\c <>{ liic conditions in 
t which they arc known to be beneficial. 

t PHHLHD WHEAT PLOUR. — An ideal •■ whole Wlicnt I'^lour."' producing a darkish bread very rich in 

nitr()gcuou>> and })hosphalic elenienis: a wonderful buildci-ui). ^t^.(X) j)er hM.; ^4 75 ]'cr half barrel; 5c. per lb. 

COLD RLASl EXTRA FLOUR. — a very superior brend.makmg substance, making the best light-colored 
bread in the world. $10.00 per bbl. : $5.25 i>er half bbl.: 5j^c. j>er 11). 

WHOLE WHEAT GLUTEN. — Used advantageously in Dia})etes, Blight's Disease, Ovcr-fatness. and in all 
conditions in which starch proves harmful. In boxes. 25c, 

CEREAL COPPEE. — a valuable falleniiig nutrient sub'-titute foi ten, coffee and cocoa. In boxo, 30c. 

^A/^HEA 1 ENA. — 'I'he very i)est Breakfast Food known to man; <juickly cooke<l, deliciouj>ly flavored, easily digested, 
and very nourishing. In boxes. 25c. 

UNlVElNoAL r^OOD. — a great buildei-u]> in all feel)lc concbtions; a p-eifect food for dyspeptics. In boxes, 50c. 

INFANTS UNIVERSAL FOOD. — Considered superior to all other artificial foods, securing solid flesh, rosy 
comj^lexions, good bones, teeth and liair In I'oxes, 5uc. 

LAL- 1 IC \A/ Ar IlKS. — Relieve all stomach and bowel tioubles in babies and young children. In boxes, 50c. 
MICMAC. — '"^ ^'^O' valua1)lc stomachic for use in dyspepsia and headaches and in all clioleraic or diarrhoea! states. 
In bottles, f^l.oo. 

VlT ALINE. — The l>est restorer ot wasted nerves, and waning ])owers It ha^^ j^roved vt-iy useful in Diabetes, Bright's 
Di>easc and Consumplion. In bottles, ^i «hi. 

GLUTEN SUPPOSITORIES. — a local nutrient of ;j,reat \alu»:in conslipali(;n and pileb. In boxes, 50c. 
Free l>y mail on receipt of price. 

THE] :Ea:E]^^x_.Ti3: p^ooid oo]vc:E^.A-isi3r, 

Mo. 74 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. 




Byiic lie 11^ ^fii^ti I i ^ 1 1 wa 




/ 



FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC COOKING UTENSILS, 

COPPER AND TIN MOLDS, 

CUTLERY, 

EDDY'S REFRIGERATORS, 

AGATE WARE. 



LEWIS & CONGER, 

601 & 603 Sixth Avenue. ^ 1.338 & 1,340 Broadway. 






ohnston's pluid 3^^^ 

Is the only Extract ever offered containing the ENTIRE 

It IS not only nutritive, but very palatable, and being in the form of a conserve (or paste) may be 
spread on thin slices of bread to fornn a delicious sandwich, or, if dissolved in boiling water, a perfect 
BEEF TEA is at hand. Each pound of JOHNSTON'S EXTRACT OF BEEF contains the ENTIRE 
nutritious properties of twenty-five pounds of good, sound, lean of beef. The preparation is not only a 
CONVENIENT but an ECONOMICAL adjunct to the larder, for the speedy production of BOUILLON, 
SOUPS, FLAVORING OF SAUCES, etc. No family should be without it. 

The United States Government have largely adopted JOHNSTON'S BEEF In the Army and Navy for 
the use of officers and men. 

DR. HARKNESS, the eminent Analytical Chemist of London, pronounces it a MOST PERFECT 
FOOD. Sold by all Fine Grocers in Glass or Tin Jars of varied sizes. 



GENERAL AGENTS FOR THE UNITED STATES. 

Robert Shoemaker & Co. 

N. E. CORNER FOURTH AND RACE STREETS, PHILADELPHIA. 



pffa. 




wire -gauze ii 



1r, Giles F. Fii,lev, who has a record of ihirty-eiglU years as a 
ufacturer of stoves, lias been for many years experimenting, in 
order to overcome the great objection to baking and roasting in an 
^V3(BiA4byw(na'tfi6 oven containing impure air. How to overcome this objection without 
liEW C H A RTE R A K '^creasing the consumption of fuel, or admitting fresh air without 
>pt,OVDi^lTaoR>>iw' cooling the oven below the baking point, was the great problem. In 
• »M<ii=,l a!«lw»>' jggj j^j^ pj|,gy ^^jg (j,g discovery tliat by inserting a sheet of fine 
n-door, the air would pass through the gauze in the form of jets without chilling the 
t the same lime it created a current in the oven which would carry off the impurities 
as fast as generated by the expanded air coming in contact with meats or bread. This simple appliance not 
only thoroughly purities the air in the oven during the process of baking and roasting, but prevents the 
evaporation of the juices of the meats. Repeated experiments show that by admitting into the oven, in the 
form of.jets, a constant supply of fresh air, we have roasted and not baked the meats, and that the juicea 
retained are double in amount and far better in flavor than those produced in the air-tight oven. Good, 
healthful food will produce better results than any medicine you can swallow, and as the Charier Oak with 
the wire-gauze door is the only cooking apparatus that can produce pure food, it will be for your interest to 
purchase the New Charter Oak. The health of your family and friends should be your first consideration. 
U'e claim for the Charter Oak that it is totally different from all other stoves. Its internal construction, 
weight, extra large ovens, durability, extra large flues, extra quality of metal, perfect operation, economy of 
fuel, and above all, the wire-gauze oven-door, producing thoroughly purified food, are not to be found in any 
other stove ever made. Every dealer who secures the exclusive sale of the Charter Oak, and makes it his 
leading stove, will be enabled to work up a trade that his competitor cannot take away. It is impossible to 
obtain a duplicate pattern, as the special features of the Charter Oak are all [latented, and all infringements 
are prosecuted by us to the full extent of the law. Correspondence is solicited. 



Respectfully, 



MANUFACTURIHG COMPANY 



CMH' 






WANAMAKER'S 



7i\ 



The bigi^est General Store in the World. 

The largest Dry Goods House in America. 

Things for Women's Use and Wear, first and foremost. 



We sell more Books than any other store between the oceans. A large assort- 
ment of French Books ; Seasides and Franklin S(]uares ; Standard and Miscellaneous 
Works, bound and unbound, at a fair ])rice. no matter what the publisher's is. 

The newest books are always on our new-book table. Book News lifts their 

covers and tells if they're worth a closer acquaintance and gives the Wanamaker price. 
5 cents, 50 cents a year. 

Writing Paper, Envelopes, Card Engraving — as you would have them. Favors 
for all occasions, or specially designed for any. 

JOHN WANAMAKER. 



PURE OLIVE OIL 



FROM 



VEUVE CHAFFARD, 

JARDIN DE LA FRANCE. 



TTVTTTVT^ 



This Superior Salad Oil comes to us directly from the grower, and is expressed from Hand- 
Picked Selected Olives only. It is absolutely pure, and of uniform quality. 

It is put up for us in full quart, pint and half-pint bottles, with flat bottoms. 

When the actual quantity is taken into consideration, the price will be found to be moderate. 

It is unquestionably the finest quality of Oil that money can buy, and has our full endorsement 

QUARTS, - - - - Per Bottle, SI. 25, per Dozen, SI 3.00. 
PINTSf ----- Per Bottle, 70c., per Dozen, 7.00. 
HALF-PINTS, - - - Per Bottle, 40c., per Dozen, 4.25. 

HOTELS; CLUES ANE THE TRADE SUPPLIED. 



S. S. PIERCE & CO. 



IMPORTERS AND GROCERS. 
Coraer Tremont am Court Streets. Corner HDntiogtM ATenne aid Dartiostli Streets. 



209 & 211 State Street. 



^ ♦!♦ '^li-c £c a b i/M-a- &z-oCi2/!>ii; 

■5.t.p(io„. 9io. 1.-4,28 to 433 fine Sti-eet,"*«" S""'"'". So'- 



I^^^CTS ! 



ir^-A-OTS ! 



It is now clearly fsUhlislied llial diir Grnnd Eiui>orium i^ llie cinly r 
for the highest class 

Giwfies, Im, Coll'ens, Wines, Talk Liisiiries, lliii 



iiitative on llie Pacific Coast 



Beers, 



RejirusenlLiig nearly every i 



I the carlli, and our iirice^ 
house in this city. 



:eded on all sides beiow any other 



DuR CiGAR^ Department, 



Rucenily added lo our business., lias proved a great succfs^, :ill [mrcliasurs being fully convinced that the 
value given them has never been reached before in this market. Twenty |)er cent, saved by all purchasers 
of Havana and Key West Cigarij. Hotels and Clubs should avail themselves of Ibis enormous saving. 






/ 






+ Painters' Colors + 



v~^' 



rin.2 i; arRisaes an.c /japans 

AMTISfS' MATERIALS' 

Copnep Palton and V/iHi^^nn fe 

1 )K NEW YORK « 





.GRANITE IRONWARE 

Supplies thk Great and Long-^'elt ^ant of 
housb-kebpers for suitable pooking y^ssels. 



Is Light, Handsome, Wlioiesome, Dm 
al.le and Easily Cleaned. 




Combines the Strength ui Wtoiitjli 

Iron and the Polished Siufiicc 

of Porcelain, 



Klis I;LAUTIH.[, HlCTUKt, 

ijxaS, tlolh back, metal mourning at lop and bottom, ready 
hanging, can he had for 15 cents by addressing the maniifactui 

GRANITE IRONWARE is for sale by all f>rst-<lass dealers in Sto 
Hard"are and H.inse-ftirnishing goods. 

St. Louis Stamping Company, 



f2BW VoF^i^ Exchange pof^ V/oman's \y^/o^l{J 

32i) Fifth Avknub, Nbw York. 



O 



o 



o 



o 



o 




HE NEW YORK EXCHANGE FOR WOMAN'S Wp_RK mafie^ a ^peciaftt^ of ^D'uvucz 
axvh Qczmaxi eFauor^. Sa^tpPe.^ ^civt for ivv^pection., aiv^ o^^er^ proiuptfu 
filTcb. 3vv tfic 3Coii3eficepiuc| ^I^cpattvuetit catv Ge foi^n^ afl fviivb^ op 

oHotuc-vvtabc o'Srcab, 91Ctif[nt^, o^^i^cii^ib, ^'Dinner !?iolT3 anb (EalVe, Cnfbertietj 



c^3i4tter, t'hre.>li v?gg.> 



^ ^ ^ ^ 



iOc 



<< « )0c 



iLluncficoiv :>^ruv!b at tfie ^oom.> of tfw v^Vx'criancjc awh at 2!tiuate i3ioii;3e^ 



^eClcacic.> ^oz tfie SiciV a :>pcciaftt4. 



« 



>0c >0f >0f JOf <'^ << 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 



THE GASTRONOMY COLLECTION OF 
GEORGE HOLL 



AGR1C. 

LIBRARY 



CUhat one can do 

4fr CJClith a Chafing-Dish. 



& GUIDE 



AMATEUR COOKSj 

BY H. L. 



SE COND EDI TIONRE VISED. 



NEW YORK: 
JOHN IRELAND, 

1197 BROADWAY, 
1890. 




COPYRIGHT, 1889, 

BY 

H. L. SAWTELLE. 
COPYRIGHT, 1890, 
JOHN IRELAND. 



- 



THE MANHATTAN PRESS PRINT, 130TH ST. & 11TH AVE., N. Y. 



AGRIC. 
LIBRARY 



foretaste of Epicurean delights I dedicate to an old 
friend in the Admiralty, the delicacy of whose gastronomic 
perceptions is the best authority I can offer, for the excellency 
of these recipes. 



(( rpHE spirit of each dish, and zest of all, 
Is what ingenious cooks the relish call, 
For though the market sends in loads of food, 
They are all tasteless, till that, makes them good." 

KINGS COOKERY. 



T TE that can grasp the golden mean, 

n 

And is content to live between 

The little and the great- 
Knows not the wants that plague the poor, 
Nor the plagues that fret the rich man's door." 

HORACE, 



TT E that will have a cake out of wheat, must needs 
tarry at the grinding. "--TROILUS AND CRESSIDA. 



T7T7E may live without poetry, music and art, 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks ! 
He may live without books what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?" 



''TTTTHAT does cookery mean? It means the knowledge of 
" * Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and of Helen, and 
of Rebekah, and of the Queen of Sheba. It means knowledge 
of all herbs, and fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that 
is healing and sweet in groves, and savory in meat. It means 
carefulness and inventiveness, watchfulness, willingness, and readi- 
ness of appliances. It means the economy of your great-grand- 
mother, and the science of modern chemistry, and French art, 
and Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, that you are to see 
imperatively that every one has something nice to eat." RUSKIN. 

It means, also, that much may be done by taking pains with 
a chafing-dish. 



A N Agate Chafing-Dish, of extra size, is manufactured expressly 
^"-^ for the recipes contained in this book, and it is preferable 
to any other (except sterling silver), not only on account of the 
smooth, polished surface, but the much greater amount of heat 
to be obtained quickly. 



IT will be noticed that the recipe used almost invariably for 
* the chafing-dish source, is two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixed 
smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; the spoon- 
fuls of flour should be scant, even tablespoonfuls, and those of 
butter, heaping. Good stock can be made at a moment's notice 
by dissolving a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef in half a pint of 
boiling water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and two or three 
drops of extract of celery, and a small teaspoonful of onion 
juice. 



T ESPECIALLY recommend the use of Johnston's Fluid Beef 
-* for stock and sauces. It is an extract of the choicest beef, 
prepared (under letters patent) with scrupulous care, and is not 
only nutritive, but very palatable. It has a much more agree- 
able flavor than any of the other condensed preparations of 
beef, and for chafing-dish use it will be found to be almost 
indispensable, as many of the recipes depend for their excellence 
partly upon this invaluable preparation. 



CLAMS. 

TTAVE twenty-five clams chopped fine; put in the chafing-dish 
* -* two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the clams, with half a pint of their 
juice; season well with pepper and salt, and let them simmer 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Just before serving, add a gill of 
cream, and let it come to a boil ; serve hot. 



LOBSTER AU NATUREL. 

EAT the yolks of two eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, until smooth ; add a gill of cream ; season well with 
pepper and salt ; stir in the finely-chopped meat of a freshly- 
boiled lobster ; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. 
Do not let it boil, as that would cook the egg too much. 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG, 

the nicest part of two small or one large lobster, cut 
into small slice, put in the chafing-dish with a tablespoonful 
of butter ; season well with pepper and salt, pour over it a 
gill of wine ; cook ten minutes ; add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and half a pint of cream. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. 



LOBSTER. 

CHOP or shred the meat of a cold, boiled lobster, tail and 
claws; pour over it the juice of two lemons, add half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the 
chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; when melted, 
add the lobster. Let it simmer for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. CATERER. 



FISH ROE. 

"P)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add a shad roe 
(which has been previously boiled about ten minutes in salted 
water). Break up lightly with a fork, add the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, a small cup of grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Stif con- 
stantly until all is well mixed, and serve very hot. 



16 



RECHAUFFE OF FISH. 

fine, any cold-boiled fish; put in the chafing-dish with 
V two tablespoonfuls of butter; when melted, add a cupful of 
bread crumbs, two eggs beaten slightly, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Mix all well together; let it simmer about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, and serve. 



SALMON A LA REINE. 

P)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, stir in gradually a tablespoonful of flour ; stir until 
quite smooth ; add a gill of water, the juice of a lemon, pepper, 
salt, a small onion, minced very fine or grated, and the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine. Add a can of salmon or a 
pound of fresh-boiled salmon ; let it simmer about five minutes 
and serve. 



iS 



CURRIED FISH, 

one tablespoonful of onion, cut very fine, in one table- 
^ spoonful of butter, five minutes. Be careful not to burn. 
Mix one tablespoonful of curry powder with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and stir into the melted butter. Add, gradually, half 
a pint of milk or cream, stirring constantly. Then add a large 
cupful of any kind of cold-boiled fish ; let it simmer a few 
minutes, and serve very hot. 



SAUTE OF SCOLLOPS. 

in small pieces half a pint of scollops, which have been 
^ previously boiled about fifteen minutes ; squeeze the juice 
of two lemons over them ; add half a teaspoonful of cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter; put all in the 
chafing-dish. Stir constantly for about ten minutes, and serve. 



20 



DOUCHES D'HUITRES. 

T) OLL large oysters in pepper and salt; have ready some very 
-* * thin slices of salt fat pork ; wrap each oyster in a slice, and 
fasten with a wooden toothpick. Put in the chafing-dish, and 
cook just long enough to crisp the pork. 



OYSTERS SAUTES. 

O ELECT a dozen large, fine oysters, drain the juice thoroughly 
^ from them, butter the chafing-dish well, and when very hot 
place the oysters in single layers. When brown on one side turn 
it upon the other, and brown that also. While cooking, keep 
adding a little butter; this, combining with the juice given out by 
the oyster, forms a brown skin in the chafing-dish, and is the very 
quintescence of oyster flavor. Season with pepper and salt ; when 
nicely browned, serve all, oysters and skin, very hot. CATERER. 



SCOLLOPED OYSTERS.- - 

in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
gill of cream ; put in a layer of oysters, well drained, and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoonfuls of cerealine (Cerealine Flakes), 
another layer of oysters, more cerealine and some small bits of 
butter; season with pepper and salt. Put on the cover, and cook 
from five to ten minutes. 



OYSTERS A LA CREME, 

T~)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
pint of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, same quantity of 
pepper, a little powdered mace, or grated nutmeg, and two bay 
leaves. When it boils, sift in two dessert-spoonfuls of finely 
powdered cracker crumbs ; add twenty-five oysters, blanched and 
drained, cook two minutes, and serve on hot toast. 



MOCK OYSTER STEW. 

'"PAKE a small piece of salt cod, which has been soaked in 
cold water over night, and cooked until soft (which should 
be done by simmering slowly, not boiling), shred it fine and 
mix well with it a tablespoonful of dry flour. Put it in the 
chafing-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dozen oyster 
crackers split ; pour over the mixture two cups of hot milk or 
cream ; season with pepper, and stir constantly five or ten 
minutes. 



SCORCHED SALT FISH. 

PICK a small piece of the thickest part of a salt cod, which 
has been soaked over night, into long flakes ; dry with a 
napkin ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; 
when very hot, put in the flakes of fish, brown a little on both 
sides ; serve very hot. It is a good appetizer. 



SALT COD FISH, DESICCATED. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly ; 
add half a pint of desiccated codfish, which has been soaked 
for an hour in tepid water. Add a gill of cream and a little 
pepper, and, if you like, a suspicion of grated nutmeg. Let 
it all simmer for ten minutes, stirring constantly. CATERER. 



WHITE FISH A LA PROVENCALE, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add one tablespoonful of flour and a gill of milk 
or cream. Mash fine the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, which 
mix well with a teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste ; stir constantly 
until it boils. Add a pound of cold-boiled halibut, cod, or any 
white fish, cut in small slices, let it simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 



SAUTE OF OYSTER CRABS, 

T)UT one tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
* melted, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, season with 
salt and cayenne; when very hot, add half a pint of oyster 
crabs, cook one minute, and serve. 



DRIED BEEF WITH EGGS. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with 
two gills of cream or milk, and a quarter of a pound of 
dried beef, shaved very thin ; let it simmer for about ten 
minutes, then stir in rapidly three or four eggs; serve as soon 
as the eggs are set. 



FROGS. 

TT'ROGS can be purchased in the market prepared for cook- 
ing ; cut them in halves, lengthwise ; separate the legs. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, then add a gill 
of cream, then the frogs, well seasoned with pepper, salt and a 
little grated nutmeg. Put on the cover and cook for twenty 
minutes. A little more cream or milk may be added while 
cooking. CATERER. 



BEEFSTEAK A LA MODE. 

T)UT a pound of beefsteak, cut about an inch thick, in the 
chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter has been 
melted, with two or three slices of lemon. Let it cook slowly 
five or ten minutes ; then pour over it a gill of good stock, 
or the same quantity of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful 
of fluid beef has been dissolved, also a gill of port wine. Allow 
the whole to simmer slowly ten minutes longer. When ready 
to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the steak. CATERER. 



CURRIED VEAL. . 

into small pieces, half an inch square, about a pound of 
^ cold roast veal ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, an onion, a tart apple, and a clove of garlic, all 
minced fine ; then stir in a tablespoonful of curry powder, and 
half a tablespoonful of flour; add the meat and pour in half a 
pint of stock, or the same quantity of hot water, in which a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. Add a little 
lemon juice and salt, let it all simmer slowly a few minutes, 
and serve hot. 



CALF'S LIVER SAUTE. 

~F) UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
tablespoonful of onion, minced fine. When very hot, add 
half a pound of calf's liver, cut in slices, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt and dredged with flour. Saute on both sides, 
and serve hot, with a sauce made by beating the yolk of an 
egg with a tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne, and a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 



34 



SALMI OF GAME, 

T)UT the remains of a roast partridge in the chafing-dish, with 
a small piece of raw ham chopped fine, and a small onion 
chopped fine. Put in a little lace bag, containing a clove of 
garlic (bruised), three bay leaves, three cloves and a blade of 
mace. Add half a pint of water, and let it all boil slowly half 
an hour. Remove the sac aux fines herbes, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, made into a smooth paste, with one table- 
spoonful of flour and a glass of white wine. Stir constantly a 
few minutes and serve. 



35 



CAPILOTADE OF TURKEY. 

CUT up the remains of cold roast turkey in small pieces. Put in 
the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly until smooth ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Add half 
a pint of stock or cream, put in the pieces of turkey, with five or six 
mushrooms ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes ; just before serv- 
ing, add a glass of wine. 



CANVAS-BACK DUCK. 

'"PAKE a cold canvas-back, or any wild duck, which has 'been pre- 
viously roasted for ten minutes in the oven ; divide into suitable 
pieces ; put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with two 
gills of port wine and a little currant jelly ; season with pepper and 
salt, cover the chafing-dish, and cook from five to ten minutes. 
CATERER. 



37 



Ox TONGUES, DEVILED. 

into slices one of Libby, McNeill & Libby's ox tongues; 
^ put a layer of them on an ordinary dinner plate, sprinkle over 
with dry mustard, a little cayenne, and two teaspoonfuls of salad oil ; 
place over this another layer of tongue and season as before. Repeat 
this until a sufficient quantity of the tongue has been treated ; let it 
remain for three or four hours. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 
chafing-dish, and when very hot add slices of tongue, and brown 
quickly. Add more butter as it is required. 



CURRY OF COLD ROAST BEEF. 

some slices of cold roast beef into rather small, square pieces, 
and dredge them with flour. Chop a small onion fine, and fry 
it in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a gill of 
stock, and one tablespoonful of curry powder ; put in the pieces of 
beef, and let all simmer ten or fifteen minutes. 



39 



CURRY SAUCE FOR ANY KIND OF COLD MEAT. 

T~)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish with one good- 
sized onion minced fine, eight or ten pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, two or three bay leaves. Stir until the onion becomes nicely 
browned, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
curry powder, a desert-spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, three gills 
of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been 
dissolved, or the same. quantity of good stock. Let all simmer five 
or ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain, and stir in any kind 
of cold meat cut in thin slices, or dice. 



VENISON STEAK. 

T J AVE the steak cut about an inch and a half thick. Lay it in the 


** - 1 - chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter have been 

melted. Season with pepper and salt. Add two gills of port wine, 
and a tablespoonful of pure red currant jelly. Cook until one side is 
done, then turn, and cook the other side. The degree of cooking 
must depend upon your own taste. CATERER. 



FRITADELLA. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two. tablespoonfuls of butter ; cook for 
about two minutes a tablespoonful of very finely minced onion ; 
add a cupful of bread crumbs, and a cupful of any kind of cold meat 
minced fine ; season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the 
grated yellow rind of a fresh lemon ; add half a gill of hot water, in 
which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved, or the 
same quantity of stock. Let all simmer for about five minutes, and 
just before serving, add two beaten eggs, well stirred in. 



ENGLISH STEW. ] 

/IUT any kind of cold meat, as for hash, sprinkle it with pepper, salt 
^ and flour, and lay it in the chafing-dish, in which a tablespoonful 
of butter has been previously melted, with some pickled cabbage or 
onions. Pour over it a gill of hot water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been dissolved, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
and a dessert-spoonful of taragon vinegar. Let all simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 



43 



BUBBLE AND SQUEAK, ' . 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; slightly 
cook some thin slices of cold corned beef, well peppered ; 
add some cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of pickled cucumber and onion, 
mixed, and a small teaspoonful of made mustard ; serve hot. 



44 



. TRIPE. 

should be chosen thick, fat and white, and should be 
boiled perfectly tender. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish ; when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a gill of cream or a gill of milk ; add three or four young 
onions, chopped fine, pepper, salt and a little made mustard. 
When well mixed, add half a pound or more of tripe, cut in 
short strips ; let it all simmer about five minutes, and serve 
hot. A few oysters and a little grated nutmeg are an excellent 
addition. 



45 



TRIPE SAUTE. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
very hot put in half a pound of honey-comb tripe, well 
boiled, cut in strips about three inches long. When brown on 
both sides, take out the tripe and add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a small onion minced fine, and half a pint of cream. Season 
well with pepper and salt ; let it simmer a few minutes, then 
return the tripe to the chafing-dish, and serve when hot. 



4 6 



CHICKEN A LA REINE, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter and a pint 
of the water in which a chicken has been boiled ; season 
with salt and pepper. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with half a cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, 
soaked until soft in half a pint of cream or milk ; cut the 
white meat of the chicken very fine ; mix all together, and let 
it simmer for about five minutes, and serve. If not thick 
enough, add more bread crumbs. 



47 



HAM A L'ESPAGNOLE, 

PUT rather a thick slice of ham in the chafing-dish, in which 
you have melted a little butter, brown on both sides, take 
out the ham and mix with the fat in the chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of very fine bread crumbs, and half a gill of 
good cider, not too hard; season with salt and pepper and a 
little chopped parsley. Mix all well together, put back the ham, 
and, when hot, serve. 



MINCED COLLOPS AU NATUREL. 

from the butcher a pound of beef from the tender 
^ part of the round, chopped very fine, quite free from fat, 
skin, etc.; season with pepper and salt; put in the chafing-dish 
before it is hot ; stir constantly until it becomes very hot, to 
prevent the meat forming in lumps. Saute it in its own juice 
for about ten minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
small onion minced very fine, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a 
little butter. CATERER. 



49 



SWEET-BREAD AND MUSHROOM RAGOUT. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
melted, two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper; add a gill of cream, a cold- 
dressed sweet-bread, and a dozen mushrooms, cut into small 
dice. Let all simmer for about ten minutes, stirring often. 



VEAL KIDNEYS SAUTES. 

~P)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a 
small onion, minced fine ; when very hot add a veal kidney 
cut in thin slices ; let them cook for about five minutes, turning 
often. As soon as they are nicely browned, 'add a tablespoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, and either a tablespoonful of stock or a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef, dissolved in a little cream. Season 
with pepper and salt, and, if you like, just before serving, add 
a glass of Madeira or Sherry. 



CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish the dark meat of cold chicken, turkey 
or grouse, cut in small slice, with half a pint of cream or 
stock, and when it comes to a boil stir in the following mix- 
ture : two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into a smooth paste 
with a tablespoonful of flour and the yolks of three eggs, a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 
all mixed with a little cream or stock. Let it simmer a few 
minutes (not boil), and when ready to serve stir in a large 
wineglass of Madeira. 



MUTTON OR LAMB RECHAUFFE. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add, stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour ; 
add a gill of water; when it boils, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of fluid beef, and one or two teaspoonfuls of mushroom or 
walnut catsup. Add the cold mutton or lamb cut in small 
dice, or thin slices, let it simmer about five minutes and serve. 



53 



SWEET-BREADS, 

"P)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
very hot put in the sweet-breads (which have been pre- 
viously boiled and prepared), cut in small pieces. Cook about 
five minutes ; take out the sweet-breads ; add gradually a table- 
spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, and a gill of cream. Stir 
constantly until you have a smooth sauce, return the sweet- 
breads to the chafing-dish, and serve hot. 



54 



LIMA BEANS. 

A DD to a pint of young Lima beans, previously boiled and 
-*-* seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, half a pint of freshly 

gathered mushrooms. Put a tablespoxDnful of butter in the 

chafing-dish ; when melted, add beans and mushrooms with half 

a gill of cream ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes, and 
serve hot. CATERER. 



55 



TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS. 

A DD to a pint of tomatoes, previously cooked, half a pint 
** of mushrooms, a heaping tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of butter; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
for a few minutes, long enough to cook the mushrooms, and 
serve on slices of buttered toast. CATERER. 



POTATOES RECHAUFFE, : 

half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes into slice; put in the 
^ chafing-dish with a tablespoonful of butter and half a pint 
of cream ; let it simmer about five minutes and then stir in a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and the beaten yolk of two eggs; let it simmer (not boil) 
and serve hot. 



57 



BREAD SAUTE, 

the crust from a thick slice of bread; put in the chafing- 
^ dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when very hot, brown 
the bread on both sides, take it out, and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and a 
gill of cream ; season with cayenne pepper. Mix all well 
together, and when very hot spread the mixture on the toast. 



SAUTE OF MUSHROOMS. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly. 
When smooth, add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a pint of boiling 
water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. 
Add the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 



59 



POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter into the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add two or three onions, chopped fine ; cook two 
or three minutes ; then add half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes, 
sliced, well seasoned with pepper and salt; saute a nice light 
brown. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. 



FRIED TOMATOES, 

fine, ripe, solid tomatoes in halves; dredge them with 
pepper, salt, and sifted cracker dust. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when very hot, cook the 
tomatoes on both sides and serve. A little onion juice is an 
improvement. 



61 



BEIGNETS DE POMMES. 

HHAKE some soft, tart apples, peel and remove the pips; cut 
in round, thin slices ; plunge them in a mixture of brandy, 
lemon juice and sugar, until they have acquired the taste ; drain 
them, dust them with flour. Put in the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when very hot, fry the slices on both sides, 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon, and serve very hot. 



PETIT Pois. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a can of French peas ; season with pepper 
and salt. Let them cook for about ten minutes. CATERER. 



EGGS A LA JARDINIERE, 

T)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
when melted, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms 
or truffles. Season with pepper and salt; add four or six eggs, 
beaten slightly. Stir constantly, until set, about two minutes, 
and serve hot, on toast. 



6 4 



OMELET, 

"P)EAT three fresh eggs slightly with two tablespoonfuls of 
*-' cream ; season with pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot, pour in the 
egg, holding the dish by the handle in the left hand ; scrape 
up rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked egg, letting the 
liquid portion follow the knife. The moment it is sufficiently 
cooked, which will be in forty to fifty seconds, slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over rapidly, gently, 
and neatly to the side of the pan opposite the handle. Have 
ready a warm oval plate, reverse it on the pan, turn pan and 
plate over quickly together, and the omelet will rest on the 
plate. 



TOMATO OMELET, 

1\ /TAKE the omelet according to directions on the preceding 
*-"-** page. Just before pouring it into the pan, add very 
solid pieces of tomato, cut in small dice, over which a little 
onion has been grated. Season with a little cayenne. 



66 



CURRIED EGGS. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; mince 
two small onions very fine, and cook until they begin to 
brown ; stir in two dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, mix well, 
arid add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring quickly all the 
time ; then add half a pint of veal or chicken stock, or the 
same quantity of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been disolved. When the mixture has simmered 
gently for about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of cream 
and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. When well heated 
through, serve. 



FRICASSEED EGGS. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly, a 
sprig of parsley, cut fine, five or six minced mushrooms, half a 
pint of white stock, veal or chicken, or the same quantity of 
cream, in which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dis- 
solved. Simmer about five minutes, and add six hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in thick slices ; boil up once, and serve hot. 



63 



EGGS A L'ESPAGNOLE, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of the best olive oil, 
in which cook a clove of garlic, chopped very fine ; add 
three sliced tomatoes, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, two or 
three slices of smoked beef tongue, minced fine. When very 
hot, add three or four eggs, beaten slightly, stirring rapidly all 
the time. As soon as the eggs are set it is ready to serve. 



HAM AND EGGS. 

~P)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add half a pound of lean, boiled ham, cut in 
small dice, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped chives or 
onions, add six, . eight or ten eggs. Stir constantly until the 
eggs are cooked. CATERER. 



EGGS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
hot, stir in three or four onions, cut very fine, and cook 
until a light brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring con- 
stantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a little finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Add six hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
quarters. When hot, serve. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS, 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and 
salt ; when hot, add a gill of cream and six eggs. Stir 
constantly for two or three minutes. Serve immediately on 
hot toast. 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
nearly melted, add a pound and a half of fresh cheese, 
cut in small dice, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cay- 
enne; stir all the time; add a small amount of beer to pre- 
vent burning. Keep adding beer, about half a pint in all. 
Serve hot on toast. 



73 



CHEESE FONDU. 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add a cup of fresh milk and a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, a salt-spoonful of dry 
mustard, a little cayenne. Stir constantly, and add, just before 
serving, two eggs, beaten light. 



74 



WARREN'S PRUNE TOAST. ; . 

the crust from rather a thick slice of Vienna bread; put 
^ in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and, when 
very hot, brown the bread on both sides. Pour over this half 
a pound of Warren's Prunes, which have been previously boiled 
long enough to enable you to remove the pits. Sweeten to 
taste. Add a glass of sherry, and Serve with cream. 



75 



WHEATENA FOR BREAKFAST. 

T)OUR, very slowly, one measure of Health Food Company's 
Wheatena into six measures of slightly salted, actively 
boiling water. Boil one minute ; serve with cream and sugar. 
If to be served cold, use seven measures of water instead of 
six, and pour the mush into moistened moulds. Turn out 
when cold. It can also be cut in slices and fried in butter 
in the chafing-dish. I cannot praise too highly this delicious 
cereal. 



CEREALINE FLAKES. 

Made from Selected White Corn. Superior to all other cereal preparations for making muffins, griddle 

cakes, delicious pastry, etc. Send for Cook Book. 

% 

-LIBBY, MCNEILL & LIBBY'S 

WHOLE OX TONGUES, IN CANS. 

Better than Tongues prepared at home, because more carefully cured and more evenly cooked, and free 
from waste. These Tongues are always ready for luncheons and emergencies, thus avoiding care 
and trouble. Send for Cook Book. 

WARREN'S CALIFORNIA PRUNES. 

Different from all other Prunes, foreign and domestic. Cured by a special process, which retains all 
the rich, original fruity flavor of the Prune. They are adapted both for cooking and eating from 
the hand, and are as economical as they are delicious. Send for Cook Book. 



H. M. ANTHONY, 

(SOLE AGENT) 

1OO & 1O2 READE STREET, NEW YORK. 



KITCHEN FURNISHING. 



AGATE WARE, 




F0REIGN & DOMESTIC 

COOKING UTENSILS, 
COPPER AND TIN MOLDS, \ EDDY'S REFRIGERATORS, 



601 & 603 SIXTH AVENUE. - - - 1338 & 1340 BROADWAY, 



A COMPLETE 

^ CHAFING 




CONSISTING OF AN 

AGATE CHAFING DISH, 

OVAL TRAY, 
" SOUP BOWK 

"- STRAINER, 

" SOUP PLATE, 

MEASURING CUP. 

Packed, in neat Wooden Box, $S.OO pep set. 



Can be obtained from any first-class dealer in Hardware, 
Crockery, and House Furnishing Goods, or from the 

New York Exchange, 329 Fifth Avenue. 



FITCHBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY. 



This book is due on the last date stamped below 
If kept overtime a fine of two cents a day will be 
charged. 

Hours : From 9 a. m. to 9 p. m. daily, except Sundays 
and Holidays. 



MR 3103 



AJU 



03 



