— the: 



Alumna Cookbook 



WELL-TESTED RECIPES FOR 
TABLE DAINTIES 



CONTRIBUTED BY 



Graduates of the Girls' High and Normal School 



PHILADELPHIA 



AND SOLD EXCLUSIVELY 



FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE TEACHERS' FUND 



EDITED BY 



MRS. JOHN STERLING >H (? 1J (/4 
(mary d. eldridge) 



PHILADELPHIA 

Burk & McFetridgk, Printers and Publishers 

306 and 308 Chestnut Street 

1891 



<£ 

® 



Copyright, 1891, by The Executive Board of the Alumna of the Girls' High 
and Normal School of Philadelphia. 



NOTE 



The many kind friends who have rendered assistance, either by- 
contributions or suggestions, in compiling this little book, — especially 
Mrs. Henry W. Halliwell, Misses Jane and Mary Campbell, 
and the Class Historians of the Alumnae of the Girls' High 
and Normal School, Philadelphia, — will accept the editor's sincere 
thanks. Without their aid so cordially given, we could not have had 
an Alumnae Cookbook. 



We may live without poetry, music, and art ; 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks 

He may live without books,— what is knowledge but grieving? 

He may live without hope,— what is hope but deceiving? 

He may live without love,— what is passion but pining? 

But where is the man that can live without dining?— Owhn Meredith 



OVERHEARD, 



Mr. Public. — I thought that you were already well supplied with cook- 
books, my dear. 

Mrs. Public. — Oh, so I am; only this, you see, is the "Alumnae" 
Cookbook, and I want it very, very much. 

Mr. Public. — And why are you anxious, my dear, to have the "Alumnae " 
Cookbook? So far as I can see, it is simply a bundle of recipes like all the 
rest of its kind. 

Mrs. Public— [Aside.] Now isn't that like a man? [Aloud.] Indeed, 
husband, you are mistaken. Listen one moment, and I will show you 
wherein lies the difference between the "Alumna" Cookbook and all 
others. In the first place, not one of its recipes has been put in for 
"padding,"— in order, merely, to fill out the volume,— and each recipe is 
vouched for as "good" by its own sender. Again, I find many dear 
friends among the one hundred contributors. Just fancy! they represent 
every administration of the Philadelphia Normal School, from '49 to '91— 
Dr. Wright's, Mr. Cregar's and Mr. Fetter's. 

Mr. Public. — Every administration? How interesting! — especially to 
those who, like ourselves, appreciate the good work that our Normal School 
has done, and is doing, for this community. 

Mrs. Public. — Yes, indeed ; not only for this community, though. 
The daughters who call the Normal School their "Alma Mater" are widely 
scattered, and each is the centre of some circle of influence wherever she 
may be. Turning at random the leaves of this little volume, I recognize the 
names of ladies, one of whom, I know, now lives in California, another in 
Minnesota, still another in Texas. West, North, South, as well as East have 
evidently had a share in making the Alumna Cookbook. 

Mr. Public. — That reminds me. Wherefore "Alumna" Cookbook? 

Mrs. Public. — Just turn to the title-page. See? Every contributor was 
once a "sweet girl graduate" of the Normal School, and therefore belongs 
to its "Alumnae." 

Mr. Public. — I understand. [Reading from title-page.] " Sold exclu- 
sively for the benefit of the Teachers' Fund." Hum ! Ha ! An excellent 
purpose. My dear, suppose we take a copy. 

Mrs. Public— Only one? 

[Exeunt Mr. and Mrs. Public soon afterward with several copies of the 
Alumna Cookbook, one fcr their own use, and the rest to be distributed 
among friends "for the good of the cause V] 



iilamnae Soaps, pish, and Shellfish 

Stop and eat, for well you may 
Be in a hungry case. — Cowper. 

BMCK BEflfl SOUP u , S ° A * over ft ; gh V pint of 

black beans. In the morn- 

BY ing put them on to boil in 2 

Mrs. Geo. W. Kendrick quarts of cold water. Sim- 



(Minhie Murdoch) 



mer about 5 hours, adding 
more cold water as it boils 
away (about */£ cupful every y 2 hour), so there will still be 
2 quarts when done. Rub through a strainer, put on to boil 
again ; add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 1 saltspoonful each of 
pepper and mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. As soon 
as it boils, thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour and 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, which have been cooked together. Add 
more seasoning if required. Slice a lemon and 2 hard-boiled 
eggs in a tureen, and pour the soup over them. 

CItflM S0l)P 25 clams ' l P int of milk > 2 

tablespoonfuls butter, 1 heap- 
BY ing tablespoonful flour, 1 tea- 

Mrs. Wm. J. Clark spoonful minced onion, 1 tea- 

CD. Cornelia Earley) S P°° nful cho PP ed P arsky ' a 

pinch of mace ; salt and pepper 

to taste. Put in a pot the hard part of the clams, onion, 
parsley, mace, and seasoning, with clam liquor increased to 



8 

I quart with water. Cook covered, a half-hour after it begins 
to boil. Heat in another vessel the milk ; when hot, stir in 
the butter rolled in flour and set in a pan of hot water to keep 
hot after it has boiled two minutes. Strain the soup back 
into the pot, over the soft part of the clams, the only digest- 
ible part, and simmer five minutes. Pour the thickened milk 
into a hot tureen, stir in the soup and serve. (Very good for 
a flagging appetite.) 

CflliF'S HEAD SOUP Thorwghly clean a cali ' s 

head, and boil until meat falls 

BY off the bones. Cut the meat 

Miss Kate H. Bunting in pieces, not too small. Tie 

the brains up in a bag and 
boil, too. 3 large potatoes cut into pieces about the size of 
dice, I bunch pot-herbs, I large onion, the hollow of your 
hand of cloves, sweet marjoram, summer savory, thyme ; rub 
well and put all in the liquor to boil, about the time the pota- 
toes are put in ; pepper and salt to taste. To make the force 
meat balls get about I pound of veal and chop fine. Mix up 
with sweet marjoram, pepper and salt, and roll into balls 
about the size of a nickel, dust them with flour and fry brown 
in butter. Put them on a plate and serve with the soup for 
those who like them in it. (You may add to the soup after 
taking from fire a few slices of lemon, and sherry or Madeira 
wine to taste.) Before taking soup from fire, mix some flour 
and water together to thicken, but do not get it too thick. 
We always strain the liquor before putting in the other things 
so as to get rid of the little bones. 



BOILED SHEEPSflEAD Put the fish °? to boiI •" 

1 cold water enough to cover it. 

W.th Cream Sauce Dressing Dq no( . ^ thg fish but put 

by salt in the water. Add to the 

Mrs. M. M. Gabrylewitz water one carrot sliced > one 

(Mary M. O'Brien) onion > four cloves > two slices 

of lemon, three bay leaves, a 

little parsley, a tablespoonful of vinegar. Let all come 

slowly to a boil. When the fish is done, take carefully out 

of water and lay in a flat dish. For the Dressing: — Put a 

tablespoonful of butter in a pan and melt ; when melted, add 

one tablespoonful of flour and mix to a smooth paste. Take 

from fire and add half a pint of scalded cream and about 

three tablespoonfuls of the water in which the fish was boiled, 

to give flavor. Add the yelk of an egg, stir all well together 

and pour over the fish. To be eaten cold or warm. This 

sauce can be used for any kind of boiled fish. Hard-boiled 

egg chopped very fine and parsley spread over the top, may 

be added if desired. 

BAKED SAIiMOK ' can Ha Ps° ods salmon ; 

* I cup milk ; I teaspoonful 

BY butter; 2 tablespoonfuls flour; 

Miss Elizabeth McCandless i egg- Mix milk, flour, but- 
ter together and bring to a 
boil. Beat egg light. Season the salmon with pepper, salt, 
and a dust of celery seed. Beat the egg with the salmon and 
last add the boiling flour, butter, and milk. Stir together and 
bake half an hour or twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



10 

CHIVIED OYSTERS c Take **? Ur ^. oyster *; 

7 Stew in their own liquor till 

BY the edges curl. Skim out the 

Mrs. George Richards Sikes oysters and put where they 

,_„ T „ x will keep warm but not cook. 

(Ellen L. Kenney) r . 

Add to the liquor y 2 pint of 

cream, y 2 pint of milk, $£ cup of butter, salt and pepper to 

taste. Thicken with I dessertspoonful of flour and 2 of 

cornstarch. Let it boil up and pour over the oysters. 

OYSTEft CROQUETTES BoiL 25 oysters five min 

* utes, chop them very fine, add 

BY I gill of the liquor, I gill of 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Butcher cream, i tablespoonful of but- 

/t iv ^ ^ >T1 • x ter and 2 of flour (mixed 

(Lilhe R. O Bnen) v 

together), I tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, I tablespoonful of chopped onion, j4 grated 
nutmeg, salt and cayenne pepper to taste ; boil all together 
until it thickens. When nearly done, add the yelks of 2 
eggs, mould, roll in eggs and bread-crumbs, fry in boiling fat. 

Ft?IFtl OVSTFftS Drain large, plump oysters 

for half an hour through a 

BY colander, lifting them with a 

Mrs. Charles A. Meguire wooden spoon occasionally 

/T , _ _ . . . to assist in running off the 

(Kmma E. Geiselman) _ & 

liquor. For each dozen allow 
three eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. 
Mix eggs, pepper and salt thoroughly, and, using your 
hand, lay the oysters, one at a time, in the egg, then roll in 



II 

smooth cracker dust, then again in the egg, and, finally, 
press smooth and shapely in the dust. Spread upon a large 
tray or biscuit board upon which a little dust has been sifted. 
Do not pile them on top of each other either now or after 
frying. When all are prepared heat the lard-bath; it must 
have a depth of three inches, and be still hot before putting 
in the oysters. Fry not more than four at a time. When a 
deep golden, take out and lay upon a sheet of soft brown 
wrapping paper to absorb superfluous grease before transfer- 
ring to a hot plate. They will puff up, and not only taste, 
but look the delicious morsels they are, with a crisp, rich 
crust and juicy, tender hearts. 

OYSTEft PIE ;5 large °y sters ; 2 hea ping 

tablespoonfuls of butter; y 2 

BY pint of milk ; I tablespoonful 

Mrs, Wm. Stirling flour ; a tiny pinch of ground 

(Rachel N. Thoburn) maCe > Salt ' and a dash ° f 

cayenne pepper. For crust, 

I quart sifted flour and a little salt; I cup of sweet butter ; 

I cup of lard ; I cup of ice water. Have a clear, hot fire. 

Put the oysters to drain while you make the crust. Put the 

lard and salt into the flour, cut fine with a sharp knife, and 

mix as thoroughly as possible. Add the ice water a little at 

a time, still using the knife until all the flour is wet. Then 

use the hands as lightly as possible, making it into a ball for 

your board, which you must dredge lightly. Roll out the 

dough and baste it with little bits of butter, using the knife, 

in close rows ; dredge a little ; turn the ends over, and roll 



12 

up as you would a sheet of paper. Roll out, and baste, 
repeating this until the butter is used up. Line the sides 
of a pudding dish (about 9 inches diameter) and fill with an 
inverted cup and bits of stale bread, or, if the bread is not 
available, a clean napkin. Roll the top out, about an inch 
thick, cover your mock pie, ornamenting the edge heavily, 
as this makes it easier to remove. It is now ready for the 
oven. While it is baking, stew your oysters. -Put the milk 
and the liquor over the fire in separate vessels, rub the butter 
and flour smooth, skim the liquor as soon as it boils, add the 
hot milk, the thickening, seasoning, and last the oysters, 
which should only be allowed to come to a boil, and then 
drawn away from the fire. In the. meanwhile watch your 
fire and don't let your mock pie burn, as that would spoil the 
look of it. Time the baking and stewing so as to have them 
both done at the same time. Remove the pie from the oven 
to the board, take off the top with a long, broad-bladed knife, 
take out your mock filling and replace with the oysters, re-cover 
and send to the table hot. If you have more oysters than the 
dish will hold, send them to the table in a sauce boat. The 
pie should bake and the oysters stew in about fifteen minutes. 

DEVILED CItfllWS u 2 , 5 J clams cut f ne ' 5 U ha , rd ; 

boiled eggs, 1 large boiled 
BY potato, ]/ 2 teacup of butter, 1 

Miss Frances M. Carroll raw egg, 1 small onion (par- 
boiled), salt, pepper, parsley. 
Beat potato, butter and yelks together; chop whites and 
onion. Dip in cracker dust, fry, and place in shells. 



13 



ItOBSTEH CUTItETS 



BY 



Mrs. E. N. Gilbert 
(Ellen J. Nolan) 



Cream a piece of butter the 
size of an egg with flour, and 
mix in a pint of milk, season- 
ing with salt, cayenne pepper, 
finely chopped parsley, and 
(if desired) a soupgon of grated 
onion. Let the milk come to a boil, stirring constantly, and 
over the prepared meat of the lobster, coral and white 
together, pour the sauce, mixing thoroughly. Allow the 
mixture to cool and stiffen, and then form into cutlets about 
the size and shape of a large oyster. Roll the cutlets in 
egg and cracker dust and drop into boiling lard. When 
serving, stick into the corner of each a little claw-tip as gar- 
nish. Croquettes of finely minced cold meat can be prepared 
in the same way. 



fllamnae Memorandum Page 



Alumnae Jflenwandqm Page 



fllamnae JVIemorandam Page 



Alumnae Dishes for Breakfast, 
Laneheon, op Tea 

Pray God, our cheer 
May answer my good-will and your good welcome here. — Shakespeare. 

Our Way of Cooking , TRIM r ev u er y *?« ic } e of fa j 

" ** from a fresh beef kidney, and 

Kldft6V cu ^ ^ e ^ es ^ m * small pieces. 

" Wash in clear cold water, 

BY and drain lightly, then put in 

Mrs. Alexander Adaire a frying pan, cook about five 

(Anna M. Soumeillan) minutes, turning all the time 

with a fork. Then add a 
pretty large piece of butter, some pepper and salt to suit 
the taste. Let this all cook a few minutes and turn out on 
a hot dish. Serve immediately. Particular care must be 
taken to add no more water to the kidney than adheres to it 
after draining. 

IHEXMfl TflJMLES B ° IL 2 p° unds ° f veal " ntil 

tender; salt while boiling. 

BY Chop very fine, and season 

Mrs. Theodore H. Roe with P lent y of cayenne pepper 

ti*v u .u w t^- i \ and a little garlic. Have 

(Elizabeth W. Dickson) b 

ready a thick paste made of 

I cup corn meal mixed with a little boiling water. Shape 



i8 

the veal into rolls the size of the little finger, and encase 
each in the corn meal paste. Take the inner husks of In- 
dian corn, cut off the ends, leaving the husks about 6 
inches long, and wash them in boiling water. Wrap each 
tamal in corn husk, throw 2 or 3 Mexican peppers into the 
liquor in which the veal was boiled, and cook the tamales in 
it for 15 minutes. Chicken, with a little fresh pork, can be 
used instead of veal. 

JViOIfiEliUX SflfiS TETE steak into pieces about 6 

(Birds without Heads) inches square. Chop onion 

BY and parsley very fine. Cut 

Miss Clarisse E. Vallette. bacon into ver y sma11 dice ' 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put a spoonful of this on each slice of steak. Roll together 

and tie with thread. Brown these on both sides first, then 

let simmer on a slow fire for one hour. 

CJlICKEfl TEMRPlfl u l J chicken - : r\ r eet " 

breads, 1 set calves brains, 

BY 1 can mushrooms, *4 cup 

Mrs. Louis Brechemin, Jr. rich cream, 1 cup sherry, 

, c -o 1 , \ butter the size of an egg, a 

(Susan Buckley) , bbt 

little nutmeg, pepper and salt 
to taste. Boil the chicken, not quite so much as for salad, 
and cut in small pieces, fat, skin, and giblets as well. Boil 
the brains and sweetbreads in salted water, and the mush- 
rooms Until somewhat tender. Cut all in small pieces, add 
to the chopped chicken, and put all in a saucepan with 



19 

enough of the chicken broth to barely cover. Add the 
cream and the butter rolled in.a little flour. Grate a little 
nutmeg, season with salt and pepper to taste, add half the 
quantity of sherry and boil until all the ingredients are well 
mixed and tender. Just before serving add the rest of the 
sherry and serve boiling hot. 

CfllCpfl SflltflD Take a pair of large chick- 

ens, and, having cleaned and 

BY washed them thoroughly, 

Miss Mary Maxwell ' boil until the meat drops from 

the bones. Skin it and cut 
into dice. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cut the 
white part of three stalks of celery into small pieces. Mix 
celery and chicken together. For the Dressing: — Take the 
yelks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a large table- 
spoonful mixed mustard. Stir the yelks and mustard 
together until thick, stir in the oil, and, lastly, add 2 large 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, stirring the ingredients together 
until the mixture is of the consistency of rich cream. Just 
before serving the salad, add the dressing, and mix well 
through the chicken and celery. 

3^2 pounds finely chopped 

raw beef. The tender part of 

BY the round free from fat and 

Mrs. Eveline Fisher stringy parts is best. Your 

,_ ,. _ . butcher will grind it for you 

(Eveline Foster) ° J 

in the sausage cutter. soda 

crackers rolled fine. 3 eggs well beaten. 1 y 2 tablespoonfuls 



PRESSED BEEF 



20 

of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper (scant, if fresh and strong). 
Mix well together in a loaf. Bake two hours. Eat hot for 
dinner or cold for tea. Good for picnics. 

WEIiSfl I^E-BIT 2 cu .p s of ,f ate f d cheese - l j 

1 r r cup milk, yelks 01 2 eggs, salt 

BY and cayenne to taste. Toast 

Miss Cecelia Ewing carefully square slices of bread 

with the crust removed. While 
hot, butter them, and then plunge in a bowl of hot water. 
Place them on a heated dish and stand in the oven, while 
you make the rare-bit. Put the milk into a porcelain-lined 
or granite saucepan and stand it over a moderate fire. When 
boiling hot, add the grated cheese ; stir continually until the 
cheese is melted. Add the salt, cayenne, and beaten yelks, 
and pour it over the toasted bread. A rich cheese must be 
used or the rare-bit will be tough. 

IWaeearoni with Cheese # p° u . nd «*ccaroni, X 

pound Swiss cheese, a penny 

BY bunch of parsley and about 6 

Mrs. Emily S. Harkins tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce 

(Emily S. Bagiot) or roast beef g ravy ~' Break 

the maccaroni into three or 
four inches in length and soak in cold water about fifteen 
minutes. Then boil until tender, in about one-third milk 
and two-thirds salted boiling water. Drain it well in a 
colander. Put a layer of maccaroni in the bottom of an 
earthen dish ; add a layer of the cheese grated, sprinkling 



21 



BY 



Mrs. M. Dilkes Chauveau 

(Mary Dilkes) 



over it the minced parsley, the tomato sauce or gravy, and a 
little salt and pepper. Repeat this twice, adding to the top 
a layer of bread crumbs. Place in the oven and serve when 
brown. 

Place a layer of sliced raw 
pPieaSS66 Of Potatoes potatoes in bottom of baking 

dish, season with salt, pepper, 
and bits of butter; then 
another layer of potatoes and 
season the same way, and so 
on until you have the quantity desired. Then cover the 
whole with milk, place in the oven, and bake until a delicate 
brown. 

Boil 2 large white potatoes, 
cut them in dice shape, add 2 
eggs, y 2 small onion chopped 
fine, 1 pint milk, % pound 
butter, tablespoonful chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Mix 
all the ingredients together; through this dredge a little flour. 
Butter your dish, dredge a little flour on top, and bake brown 
in a quick oven. 

Mix 2 large cups cold 
POTATO CROQUETTES mashed potatoes with 1 table- 
spoonful melted butter, 1 raw 
e gg> l grated onion, 1 table- 
spoonful cream. Season rather 
highly with pepper, salt, pars- 
Form in croquettes, brush with 



POTATO OJWEItETTE 



BY 



Mrs. Josephine Ritchie 
(Josephine Johnson) 



BY 



Mrs. Wm. G. Carroll 

(Elsie M.Beitler) 



ley and sweet marjoram. 



22 



beaten egg, dip in cracker dust, and fry in hot lard until a 
golden brown. 



COM FftTTEflS 



BY 



Mrs. W. A. Garden 

(Helen Wyncoop) 



I pint of grated corn, I 
egg, I tablespoonful of flour, 
3 tablespoonfuls of cream. 



Philadelphia Baked 
Beans 



Soak over night 3 pints of 
soup beans in enough water 
to cover them. Take 1 pound 
of fresh pork, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of brown sugar, salt to 
taste, and add to the beans. 
Stir all together in an earthen 
crock, and set to bake in a moderate oven for about three 
hours. Add a little water from time to time as the beans 
dry in the baking. 



BY 



Miss Mary Sterling 



BAKED TOMATOES 



BY 



Hollow out centre (half 
way) of each tomato. Sea- 
son bread crumbs with pepper, 
salt, and sweet marjoram, and 
butter well rubbed through. 
Fill hollowed-out part of each 

tomato with the seasoned bread crumbs. Bake in hot oven 

until thoroughly soft. 



Mrs. D. Loughlin 

(Kate M. Dornan) 



23 



TOIWATO SAItAD 

BY 

Mrs. Edw. Hewitt 

(Mary Stirling) 



Two or three hours before 
meal time peel 5 tomatoes, 1 
cucumber, 1 onion, and place 
them on the ice. Just before 
the meal 'is served, slice and 
arrange on a platter trimmed 
with lettuce or parsley. Pour over them this dressing : — 
Mix thoroughly in a bowl 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, y 2 teaspoonful of curry powder, and, last, 1 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Suitable for a lunch or tea for 
four or five people. 



CHEAJW D^ESSIJiG 



BY 



This dressing may be used 
for asparagus, or toast, or 
dried beef. Put 1 pint of milk 
in a farina kettle. Beat yelk 
°f l e gg- Dissolve 1 tea- 
spoonful cornstarch in a little 
milk, and mix with the yelk. When milk comes to a boil, 
stir in the mixture ; then add a lump of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste. 



Mrs. Will McCoombs 
(Leah Pinto) 



SALTED AIiPflDS 

BY 

Mrs. Horace Subers 

(Mary Hay) 



Shell, blanch, and spread 
the almonds on a bright tin 
pie dish, add a piece of butter 
the size of a hickory nut, and 
stand them in a moderate oven 
until a golden brown. Take 
them from the oven, stir them around, dredge thickly with 



24 

salt, and turn them out to cool. To blanch almonds : — Shell 
them, throw them into boiling water, and let them stand on 
the back part of the range five minutes; then throw them into 
cold water, and rub them between the hands to remove the 
skins. 



Alumnae JWemorandum Page 



fllamnae Memorandum Page 



Alamnae Pickles and Sauces 



All sour things, as vinegar, provoke appetite. — Bacon. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES Take io ° sma11 cucumbers 

f and i quart of white onions, 

BY pare, slice thin, and put in a 

Mrs. M. S. Roberts J ar a la y er of cucumbers, one 

(Margaret S. Rodney) ° f ° ni ° nS aild ° ne ° f Salt 

Let stand in press all night; 

then drain off liquor, cover with vinegar, let stand a few 

hours, and drain dry. Make a mixture of }( pound of 

mustard seed (^ pound of it ground and the rest whole), I 

teaspoonful of black pepper, I pint of best bottle oil, I ounce 

of celery seed, 2 quarts of vinegar; mix this compound with 

cucumbers and onions and cover tightly in a jar. 



rilftfoflrtT SOV ^ pounds of stemmed cur- 

* ^ rants, 3 pounds of brown 

BY sugar, 1 pint of cider vinegar, 

Mrs. E. H. Austin l scant tablespoonfui of black 

(Clara R. Phillips) PW 61 "' 2 SCallt tablespoonfuls 

of salt. Put all in a preserving 

kettle over a moderate fire ; cook three hours from the time 



28 

the fruit begins to boil. Stir frequently to prevent burning. 
Keep in glass jars. Excellent with meat. 



PICKED CHEVIES 



Select firm cherries. White . 

oxhearts are the best. Remove 

BY all specks. Pack the cherries 

Mrs. Edgar O. Van Houten in wide-mouthed bottles, or 

,r Air bi i i \ J ars - Cover them with vine- 

(E. Allie Blakeley) J 

gar. Pour vinegar off. To 
each pint of vinegar use from ^ to I pound of granulated 
sugar. (Quantity of sugar to be determined by strength of 
vinegar.) Boil vinegar and sugar together from ten to fifteen 
minutes. Pour over cherries while hot. Into each jar, three 
or four cloves may be put. Let them stand uncovered till 
the next day. If any vinegar is left over the jars may be filled 
as the shrinkage takes place. 



PICKLED PEACHES Late Heath Clings are best 

both to pickle and to can. 

BY Pare and stone the peaches, 

Mrs. S. P. Lee leaving them whole. Stick 3 

/r. iv t» t»-j t % or 4 cloves in each peach. To 

(Salhe P. Ridgely) ** / 

42 peaches take of best white 

wine vinegar 3 pints, to which add 3 pounds of granulated 

sugar and 1 ounce of ground cinnamon. Bring this vinegar 

with its contents (not the peaches) to a boil, and pour, while 

hot, over the prepared peaches. Let stand for a day or two, 

then boil the syrup again and pour over the peaches. 



2 9 



Mrs. George D. Cox 
(Emma R. Hoopes) 



Packer House Dressing 3 e ^ s; l teas P° onful each 

D of salt, mustard, and sugar; I 
BY cup of oil ; ^ cup of vinegar; 

a small quantity of red pepper. 
Beat the yelks of the eggs 
with the salt, sugar, pepper 
and mustard ; add the oil slowly, then the vinegar. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a' stiff froth, adding them last. Put all 
in a large bowl and set it over a boiling kettle to thicken, 
stirring it frequently to make it smooth. Remove it from 
the heat before it becomes too thick. Used for lettuce, cold 
meats, tomatoes sliced, potato salad, etc. Very useful and 
handy for housekeepers. 



GHlItl SAUCE 



BY 



Mrs. Wm. F. Anderson 
(Harriet M. Campbell) 



1 8 large ripe tomatoes, 6 
onions, 3 large red or green 
peppers. Chop all fine, add 3 
tablespoonfuls of salt, 5 cups 
of vinegar. Cook all together 
one hour. 



|WHS. P'S COItD CATSUP 



BY 



Mrs. S. C. Parker 
(Sarah Crowe) 



I peck of tomatoes chopped 
fine, 8 green peppers chopped 
fine, 4 stalks of horse-radish 
chopped fine, 1 teacup of yel- 
low mustard seed, 1 teacup of 
brown sugar, 1 teacup of salt, 



2 tablespoons each of ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon ; 



30 

teacup of celery seeds, I quart nasturtiums (chopped fine), 
3 pints vinegar. 



MPS. P'S COIiD CATSUP # peck T tomatoe s ch °p- 

1 ^ r ped very fine, I small cup 



BY 



Mrs. Isaac Remington 
(Clemmie W. McCloud) 



salt, i small cup black and 
white mustard seed mixed, I 
cup nasturtiums chopped, I 
small cup of onions chopped, 
2 teaspoonfuls black pepper, 2 red peppers chopped with- 
out the seeds, 3 stalks of celery chopped, 1 teaspoon 
each of ground cloves, mace, cinnamon, 1 cupful sugar, 
1 quart vinegar. Stir all together. Keep in perfectly 
air-tight jars. 



TOMATO KETCHUP 

BY 

Mrs Marion A. Bullen 
(Marion A. Karcher) 



I peck tomatoes, 1 table- 
spoon each of red pepper, 
black pepper, whole cloves, 
ground allspice, ground mace, 
ground cinnamon, 2 table- 
spoons each of mustard seed 
and celery seed, 4 tablespoons of salt, 1 quart vinegar. Cut 
up the tomatoes and boil until quite soft. Then strain 
through a sieve until nothing remains but skin and seeds. 
To this liquid add the spices, vinegar, etc., and boil until 
quite thick. Bottle while hot, and if tightly corked will 
keep for two years without sealing. 



3i 

Grandma Slifef 's ' p h eck ° H f t 7 atoes > H? 

and chopped, I teacup of salt, 

^etehup Sauee 2 ° unces whole h[ ^ k pepper, 

I ounce ground cloves, 2 table- 

BY 

spoons allspice, 2 red peppers, 

Mrs. Hiram J. Slifer cut fine, 4 large onions. Boil 

(Mary Beatty) one hour, stirring all the time. 

Just before taking off, add 1 

quart strong vinegar. When cold, bottle and seal. 



Alumnae Memorandum Page 



Alumnae IVtemorandqm Page 



Alumnae jflemorandiim Page 



Alumnae Bread, falls, and Hot Gakes 

I'm quite ashamed — 'tis mighty rude 

To eat so much — but all's so good !— Pope. 

rtOME w MRl)E YE AST For one gallon of yeast take 

8 large potatoes, I cup sugar, 

BY I cup salt, y 2 pint yeast, a 

Mrs: Rush Taylor handful of hops. Boil the 

/TVT T . N potatoes. When nearly done, 

(Mary Lingerman) r 3 ' 

add hops (tied in a thin bag), 
and boil ten minutes longer. Put sugar and salt in an earthen 
or a porcelain vessel. Lift out hops and press them dry in 
colander. Mash the potatoes in the water and pass mixture 
through the colander to the salt and sugar. Add sufficient 
boiled water to make about 3^ quarts. When lukewarm, 
add yeast. Let stand until perfectly light (about 12 hours). 
Put in a jug and cork securely. If kept in a cool place this 
yeast will be good for four or five weeks. 



J101WE-1VIADE BHEHD 



BY 



For one small loaf of bread 

take I quart sifted flour, ^ 

pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful 

Mrs. Norris H. Norden of butter, 1 teaspoonful of 

(Helen E. Freas) SU ^ # teaspoonful of salt. 

To set the sponge : — The flour 

is sifted carefully and into the centre is poured the yeast (}4 



36 

cake), which has been previously mixed with a little water 
added to the half pint of lukewarm milk. Beat the sponge 
well and set to rise. When it becomes light, add sugar, 
butter and salt. Knead well and set to rise again. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 



Konpareil Corn Bread 2 , heaping fl cups of Indian 

A meal, I cup flour, 2 eggs, 2y 2 

BY cups of milk, 1 teaspoonful 

Mrs. George Crosby lard, 2 teaspoonfuls white 

,„.. _ N sugar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 2 

(Ella Fagen) t t 

teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, 1 

teaspoonful salt. Beat the whites and yelks of the eggs 

separately and thoroughly; then melt the lard and add. 

Into the dry meal and flour mixed, sift the soda and 

cream-tartar, and add these to the eggs, lard, and milk. 

Beat vigorously. Bake in a quick and steady oven for 

thirty minutes. 



SflltliY iiDM ^ pound of butter ( melted ) ; 

4 e gg s > yelks and whites beaten 

BY separately ; 1 pint of milk ; 

Mrs. John Cobb H teaspoonful of salt; about 

(Sarah A. Redles) 4 teaspoonfuls of Royal Bak- 

ing Powder; enough flour to 

make a stiff batter. Bake about half an hour in a quick 

oven. 



37 

TlflT ftTS»nlTT x P mt k Qt m ^^ poured over 

' ^3 cup lard ; add, when nearly 

BY cool, y 2 cup yeast, T / 2 tea- 

Mrs. M. C. Geisler spoonful salt, flour to make 

^ r^- i x a th'ick sponge. Let it stand 

(Mary C. Dickes) .,,.,/, 

until light (about three hours) 

and then knead, adding I tablespoonful sugar, and flour if 
necessary. After a second rising roll out and cut into bis- 
cuits about a half hour before baking. Bake twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. 



POP OVEPS 2 eggs ' 2 cups of flour ' 2 

^ cups of milk, I teaspoonful 

BY of baking powder. Mix flour 

Mrs. John R. Angney and milk 5 add the e gg s > beat " 

._, , „ TT ,, ins; yelks and whites sepa- 

(Martha P. Hand) 5 / . *~ 

rately ; add baking powder 

just before placing in the oven. Butter deep gem pans or 

cups and place in the bottom of the oven. When nearly done 

put in the top part of the oven until brown. To be eaten 

with custard or cornstarch made thin, using eggs. 



GHflflffJVI GEJWS I quart milk, I quart flour, 

BY (half Graham), 2 eggs, I 

Mrs. Chas. G. Saul P inch of salt , Have P ans 

(Lidie Bower) not and bake thirty minutes. 



38 

MUFFINS l cup of milk ' 2 * eggs ( the 

yelks to be beaten with the 

,BY milk, the whites to a stiff 

Mrs. Maurice F. Egan froth), I tablespoonful melted 

(Kate C. Muffin) " butter ' 2 teas P oonfuls R °V al 

Baking Powder, a little salt, 

flour to make like cake. Bake in well-greased rings or gem 

pans. 

MIIiTOfi MUFFINS 0xE eg - T pint of milk - 

I pint of flour, a pinch of 

BY salt. Beat one egg very 

Miss Mary A. Campbell light, add part of the milk, 

all of the flour, then add the 
rest of the milk. Bake twenty minutes in buttered tins. 
Eat hot. 

fiflTTFt? PflKF^ ^° one cu p °^ tmc k cream 

add enough flour to make a 

BY stiff batter. Beat thoroughly. 

Mrs. S. H. R. Capen Add the beaten yelks of two 

eggs and a teaspoonful of 
bi-carb. soda. Mix well, 



(Sarah H. Reger) 



salting slightly. Toss in the beaten whites of the two eggs 
and bake on a griddle. 



fllqmnae Iflemorandum Page 



Alumnae JVIemorandum Page 



fllamnae Paddings and Pastry 

More than enough for nature's ends, 

With something left to treat my friends. — Mallet. 



CflEtftV PUDDlJiG 



BY 



For a family of five persons, 
boil 4 potatoes (pared) with 
salt in the water. When done, 
drain and mash them quickly, 
and, while still hot, stir in 
enough flour to roll out. On 
cherries (morellas are best), 



Mrs. Chas. M. Lukens 
(Matilda C. Barns) 

this sprinkle your seeded 
sprinkle with sugar, roll neatly up, put into a cloth or a 
pudding bag (not too small) and boil or steam for 4 hours. 
If the water evaporates fill up with boiling water. Eat with 
butter and sugar (hard sauce) into which is stirred the white 
of 1 egg and 1 tablespoonful of brandy. A. dyspeptic may 
eat this crust with impunity. The same crust will do for 
dumplings. 



BltftCKBEtftY 1WUSH 



BY 



I quart of blackberries, 1 
pint water, 1 tablespoonful 
cornstarch. Stew the blackber- 
ries in water until well done, 
add sugar to taste, thicken 
with cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water. Boil a few 
minutes after adding cornstarch. When cool, flavor with 
vanilla. To be eaten cold with cream. 



Miss Mary J. Cairl 



42 

PLUM PUDDING 



134 cups of bread crumbs, 
lj4 cups of flour, 1^2 cups of 
BY sugar, j4 teaspoonful of salt, 

Mrs. Walter R. Livingston 3 e gg s and J A CU P of milk > l 



(Elizabeth A. Ziegler) 



teaspoonful each of cinnamon 
and nutmeg, ]/ 2 pound of beef 
suet chopped fine, y 2 pound each of raisins and currants, ]/^ 
pound of citron. Mix the bread crumbs, sugar, suet, and 
fruit thoroughly ; add the eggs and milk. Sift in the flour, 
add the salt, and put the spices in last. Pour in a greased 
mould and steam three hours. To be eaten with hard sauce. 

PflPfl'S PlJDlJlNG 1 cup of moiasses > l cu p of 

beef suet, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup 

BY of raisins, 1 cup of currants, 

Mrs. W. H. List 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 

/T^,t ™ 1 i_x baking powder, enough flour 

(Ella Murdoch) 7 , „ 

to make a batter stiff enough 

to drop. Put into a bag, allowing sufficient room to swell, 

and boil 3 hours. Make a sauce to eat with it, according to 

taste. We use beaten butter and sugar flavored with vanilla. 



IWRHYltRflD PUDDlflG 



3 coffee cups of flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda, 2 teaspoon- 
BY fuls cream of tartar. Sift into 

Mrs. A. J. Hurlock pan together with % tea- 

, . . -. ... spoonful of salt. Make a well 

(Annie J. Tomkins) # r 

in the centre of flour, into 
which drop yelks of 4 eggs. Stir, gradually adding ij4 



43 

pints of milk. Last of all, add the well-beaten whites. 
Bake I hour in a moderately hot oven. Eaten with 
sauce, either sweetened cream flavored with vanilla, or 
Nun's butter. 



Indian Pudding— The . lNT0 ' ^ **»&v miIk 

** stir i cup of fine Indian meal, 

" ChaiDpiOH" and let stand until lukewarm. 

BY Mix with this batter I level 

Mrs. M. A. Elv T ? T /u "& \ "^ 

(Marian Ash) ef melted butter - % P OUnd 

of sugar, the same of raisins 

(floured), and 4 eggs well beaten. Stir thoroughly and bake 
1 V 2 hours. Eat with cream, or hard sauce. 



Boiled Ffuit Pudding ' P int ° f *T\<. ' hea P in s 

u teaspoonful of baking powder, 

BY salt to taste, and butter the 

Mrs. Annie C. Dorland siz e of an egg. Sift the baking 

/A • n A \ powder well through the flour, 

(Annie Caley) r & ' 

rub the butter thoroughly into 
this, and use cold milk enough to make a light dough. Roll 
this into a square about an inch thick, and spread it with 
fruit, leaving a margin of an inch all around. Wet the edges 
slightly, roll up and sew in a cloth which has been wrung 
out of hot water and well dredged with flour. Boil or steam 
one hour, and serve with cream and sugar, or hard sauce. 



44 



mCE MDDlflG 



BY 



Mrs. Frank A. Mulliken 
(Annie Housekeeper) 



3 ounces rice, 2 quarts milk, 
sugar to taste, a pinch of salt, 
nutmeg to taste. Bake in a 
slow oven two hours, or until 
the rice is thoroughly cooked, 
and the milk is of the con- 
sistency of rich cream. 



fln Excellent ftee 
Pudding 



BY 



Put 6 tablespoons of rice in 
an earthen basin. Soak for an 
hour in barely enough cold 
water to cover it. Add 2 quarts 
of milk (Alderney is best) and 
a tablespoon of Vanilla Ex- 
tract. Sweeten to taste, and 
bake three hours in a moderate oven. When done, the milk 
will be very deep yellow and of the consistency of thick 
cream. Keep stirring from the bottom about every twenty 
minutes until nearly done; then let it brown. After cooling, 
put in the refrigerator. 



Mrs. D. F. Sayre 

(Lydia F. Hamor) 



fl Palatable Dessert 



BY 



Mix well together the 
juice and grated rind of I 
lemon, I cup of sugar, I piece 
of butter the size of an egg, 
2 eggs, I tablespoonful corn- 
starch, and ij4 cups boiling water. Boil until the mixture 
thickens. While still warm, pour over sliced cake or lady 
fingers, and then allow to cool. 



Miss Maude M. Jenkins 



45 

CMOCOItflTE CUSTAftD ' quart milk - 6 e ^ s - 2 

ounces sugar, 2 ounces cho- 

BY colate, 1 tablespoonful of rose 

Mrs. S. W. Dungan water - Chip the chocolate 

(Sarah A. Walker) and add sufficien t boiling 

water to make it smooth. Mix 

with it, gradually, the boiling milk. When cool enough, 

stir in it the beaten eggs, sugar, and rose water. Bake in a 

moderately hot oven. Serve hot. 

FRENCH CtiSTflftD ' quart miIk > 4 e ^, 1 

tablespoonful sugar, 1 table- 
BY spoonful cornstarch, 1 tea- 

Miss Cornelia W. Elmes spoonful vanilla. ^ Put the 

milk on to boil in a farina 
boiler. Beat the yelks with the sugar and cornstarch, then 
add them to the boiling milk. Then put the custard into the 
pudding dish. Make a meringue of the beaten whites of the 
eggs with 1 tablespoonful of pulverized sugar and a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla. Drop the meringue over the custard, and 
place it in the oven only long enough to brown the meringue. 



SHOW PUDDlflG 



I pint of milk, 2 table- 
spoons of cornstarch, 3 eggs, 
BY y 2 cup sugar. Dissolve the 

Mrs. Walter T. Lee cornstarch in a little of the 
(Nellie I. Morris) milk and the sugar in the 

remainder. When it begins 
to boil add the dissolved cornstarch, stirring constantly 



4 6 

until it becomes a smooth paste. Then, remove from fire 
and add the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour 
into individual moulds and serve with a custard made 
of the yelks of the eggs, I pint of milk, sugar and flavoring 
to taste. 



CRBItfET PUDDlflG 



I dozen almonds blanched 
and pounded, x / 2 dozen Eng- 
BY lish walnuts and *4 dozen 

Miss Kate S. Gillespie black walnuts cut or broken 

into particles, small piece of 
citron cut very fine, I even cupful of raisins boiled till 
tender and seeded. Mix well these ingredients in a bowl 
and prepare the following pudding : Take I quart of 
milk, leaving out enough to wet 3^ tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch. Bring the milk to the boil, add the cornstarch 
into which have been beaten the yelks of 2 or 3 eggs, as 
preferred, and 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. When the corn- 
starch is thoroughly cooked, take from the fire, flavor with 
lemon extract, and stir in the nuts, citron, and raisins. 
Then pour into cups, adding a macaroon to each cup. 
When cold turn out of the cups and serve with the follow- 
ing sauce : Beat the yelk of an egg and 1 }4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar together, add a large cupful cream and a teaspoonful 
vanilla. If the cream is too rich, part milk may be used. 
The white of an egg beaten very light, added, is an 
improvement. 



47 

Delicious Hazelnut Tart ° p ™ x p° und of h , azeln u uts : 

grate them tine, or chop them 

BY in an almond grater. Take 

Mrs. A. B. Ausbacher yelks of 10 eggs, beat them 

,„ „ v very light, add 12 ounces 

(Frances Eger) J ° 

powdered sugar. Beat again 

till quite thick. Add I teaspoonful of rose water or one of 

vanilla flavoring. Then, froth very stiff the whites of ioeggs 

and stir the froth into the eggs and sugar, adding very 

lightly, a little at a time, 6 ounces of flour (sifted twice) and 

y^ of the grated hazelnuts. Bake in two pans so as to have 

two layers. When baked and quite cold, you place between 

the two layers a mixture composed of the rest of the 

grated nuts, which have been stirred into one pint of thick 

whipped sweet cream flavored with a pinch of dry vanilla 

bean. 



CHEESE CAKE PIE 



To five cents' worth of cot- 
tage cheese add ]/ 2 tablespoon- 
BY ful of butter, y 2 tablespoonful 

Mrs. Geo. H. Stout fl o ur > J uice and ri " d of % 

/T7 a urjj- £ u\ lemon, 3 eggs (yelks and 

(Frances A. Widdifield) * . - v 

whites beaten separately), 1 

tablespoonful cream ; sweeten to the taste and add a pinch 

of salt. Dust a little ground cinnamon on top just before 

putting into the oven. This quantity makes one large pie. 

Use one crust only. 



48 

CHEESE CUSTARD PIE ' quart dry cottage cheese ' 

2 ounces butter, I pound sifted 

BY sugar, 2 eggs, I tablespoon 

Mrs. David W. Hunt flour, */ 2 nutmeg (grated), 

pinch of salt, rind and juice of 
I lemon. Dress the curd very- 
smooth with a wooden spoon. Beat the butter and half of 
sugar to a cream. Then add remaining sugar, cheese, flour, 
salt, and flavoring. Beat eggs light and stir in just before 
baking. Bake in crust. This will make two pies. 



(Josephine Dunlap) 



MOPK MlNPF PlF l CU P eacn °^ stoned raisins 

and of washed currants, *4 

BY cup of cut citron, I cup each 

Mrs. Charles Harte of brown sugar, of molasses, 

(Kate Kereven) ° f dder > 2 CU P S ° f a PP leS 

pared, cored, and chopped 

fine, I lemon (juice and grated rind), 3 Boston (or 4 soda) 
crackers rolled fine, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, y 2 teaspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful of ground allspice, y^ 
teaspoonful of cloves, ]/^ teaspoonful of mace. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, and if the mixture should not be 
moist enough, add cider (or water) to moisten it. Line two 
deep pie plates with good plain paste, fill them with the mix- 
ture, and put on an upper crust ; then bake the pies thirty 
minutes in a quick oven. 



49 

Temperance IWinee-lVIeat 2 pounds lean beef, ^ 

1 pound of beef suet, i heaping 

BY tablespoonful ground cloves, 

Mrs. George E. Sladen % nutmeg (grated), % pound 

(Eliza A. Fischer) Candied lem ° n P ed > # P OUnd 

citron, I pound small seedless 

raisins, I pound currants (cleaned and dried). Boil the beef 

till very tender, set it away for a day or more to be perfectly 

dry and cold, then chop it so fine that it becomes mealy 

when rubbed in the hands. Remove from the suet all stringy 

substances, chop it fine and mix with the meat. Now add all 

the other ingredients. This dry mixture will keep all winter 

in an air-tight jar. When ready to make pies, add chopped 

apples and sugar to taste, and for moistening take equal parts 

of New Orleans molasses and best cider vinegar (diluted with 

water and a little sugar). 



fllamnae jaemorandum Page 



fllamnae flttemorandum Page 



Alumnae JViemorandum Page 



Alumnae lees and Sweets 



I always thought cold victual nice ; — 

My choice would be vanilla-ice. — O. W. Holmes. 

FHOZEfl CUSTARD TAKE f 3 Pi nts of cream ' I 

^ r quart of milk, 12 eggs, 2y 2 

BY coffee cups sugar, I small 

Mrs. Henry W. Halliwell vanilla bean. Cut the bean in 

/T . . _ . . several pieces, scrape out the 

(Lizzie Settle) . v . / 

seeds in a gill of milk and 

gently boil seeds and bean, to extract full flavor. Scald, in 

a preserving or custard kettle, the cream and milk, but do 

not boil it. Beat the eggs until light, adding the sugar until 

all is thick and smooth. Stir slowly the cream and milk 

into the beaten egg and sugar, add the boiled bean and milk 

and replace on the fire. Stir constantly until it becomes of 

the consistency of thin custard. Remove from the fire at 

once, and strain through a wire sieve into the ice cream 

freezer, which latter set in a pail of cold water. When cool, 

freeze as ice-cream. 



Frozen Strawberries . ( r 0VER ' )°" nd of b ZT s 

* with i pound of sugar. When 

the sugar is melted, mash the 
Mrs. Anna W. McKinley berries, add I pint of water 
(Anna R. Winchester) and freeze. 



54 

Frozen Charlotte tyisse *J^ of f ge ^ ne ?' 

1 r solved in y 2 pint cold water. 

BY 3 eggs, i pint new milk, boiled 

Mrs. William Bickley to a custard. Pour on gela- 

^ ™ ™ x tine, add I pound sugar, and 

(Lucy R. McElroy) \ * * ' 

strain. When cold, add y 2 

pint brandy and I tablespoonful vanilla. When it begins to 

set in the freezer, stir in 3 pints of whipped cream. 



f ^ ^ 1 pint of cold water for a half 

BY hour, bring to the boiling 

Mrs. F. C. McCurdy P oint and carefully stir in the 

,_. a ^ 1 n well beaten yelks of 3 eggs 

(Florence A. Cathcart) - J J Sfc> 

mixed with a cup of sugar. 

Take from the fire and flavor with the juice of 1 lemon and 
2 or 3 oranges according to size. Let it stand on the 
ice till cold and stiff. Turn into a glass dish and heap up 
over it the whites of 3 eggs beaten until stiff with 3 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar gradually sifted in. 



FftJlT GEIiflTIJiE 



I box Cox's gelatine, 6 
oranges, 3 lemons (more will 
BY be needed if the fruit is small), 

Mrs. Edward Zieber I P ound granulated sugar, 3 

bananas. Pour 1 pint of cold 
water over the gelatine, and 



(Margaret Jean MacVeagh) 
let it dissolve. Mix 1 pound of sugar with the juice of 



55 

4 oranges and 3 lemons, and the grated rind of 1 orange 
and 2 lemons. Pour one pint of boiling water over the 
partly-dissolved gelatine, and add the other ingredients. 
Mix thoroughly and strain. Pour into moulds or dishes. 
Slice the bananas and remaining oranges over it, and 
set in the refrigerator until it becomes solid. If the 
weather is warm, it will harden better in tin than in 
earthenware. 



FfoErtCFl TfiPlOCH 5 scant taD i es P oonm i s fl a k e 

' * ^ ' tapioca, 1 quart milk, I pint 

BY water, 1 small cupful sugar, 

Mrs. Edward Fiss 3 eggs, whites and yelks 

/A , ^ >, . x beaten separately, 2 teaspoon- 

(Mary C. Morris) f _ /' J m 

fuls vanilla. Soak the tapioca 
in the water over night, or for five hours, in a cool place. 
Heat the milk to boiling, in a vessel set within another of 
boiling water, add the tapioca and water in which it was 
soaked, and a pinch of salt, stirring occasionally. When all 
is boiling hot, add the yelks of the eggs, beaten very light, 
with the sugar, and stir until it thickens perceptibly, but 
do not let it boil too long or the custard will break. 
Remove from fire and stir in briskly, but carefully, the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the vanilla. 
When sufficiently cool, pour into a glass dish and set 
away to get very cold. 



56 



JVIrs. It's Iiemon Butter 



BY 



Mrs. L. J. Logan 

(E. Terese Dickes) 



Juice and rind of 2 lemons, 
2 eggs well beaten, I ]/ 2 tea- 
cups of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Beat eggs and 
sugar together, add butter and 
lemons. Boil five minutes, 
stirring all the time. 



Mps. M's Iiemon Batter Take the juice and grate ? 

rinds of 4 lemons, 5 eggs, 2^3 
B1 tumblers of sugar, 1 tumbler 

Mrs. Emma J. Morris of butter. Beat well together 
(Emma J. Fort) and boil five minutes. 



FftJIT CflflDY 



BY 



Miss E. S. Tait 



4 cups of granulated sugar, 
I cup of water, 1 cup of 
vinegar, butter the size of a 
walnut. Boil until it hardens 
in cold water. Pour it into 
buttered tins, in which have 
been placed nuts, dates, figs,etc. 



RliUMflRE TRFFV 



I pound of brown sugar, 1 
scant cup of water, butter the 
BY size of an egg, 1 teaspoonful 

Miss Sara Hawks Sterling ground ginger. Put sugar 

and water in a saucepan, and 
when the mixture comes to a boil add the melted butter and 



57 

ginger. Boil without stirring until the taffy hardens quickly 
in cold water. Remove from fire and place in buttered tins 
to cool. Vanilla, or other flavoring, may be used instead 
of ginger, and nuts may be added, if desired. 



fllamnae Jfflemorandam Page 



Alamnae IHemoFandam Page 



fllqmnae JWemorandum Page 



fllamnae Cakes 

Dainty bits 
Make rich the ribs. — Shakespeare. 



Moravian Christmas 
Cookies 



BY 



I pound brown sugar, I 
pound butter, 4 pounds flour, 
I quart New Orleans cooking 
molasses, ]/ 2 ounce ginger, ]/ 2 
ounce cloves, 1 ounce cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoon soda, juice 
of one large orange. Mix all 
together, except the flour, 
being careful to heat enough to melt the butter. Then 
" work in " the flour. This makes a large quantity, as the 
cakes should be rolled very thin. Keep the cookies in a dry 
place, and they will be crisp and delicious as long as they 
last, even for months. 



Mrs. Wm. J. Lamberton 
(Mary McCurdy) 



BY 



SUGflft BISCUIT ' pint of milk > ' pound of 

flour, 1 ]/ 2 cups of sugar, I 
egg, 2 ounces of lard, ]/ 2 tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 teacup of 
yeast or l / 2 yeast cake; flavor 
with a little nutmeg, cinna- 
Boil the milk; when it is lukewarm, 
dissolve in it half a yeast cake. Measure in your pan 1 pound 
of flour; add / cup of sugar, 1 egg, 2 ounces of lard, the salt 
and the flavor. Mix these ingredients with the milk in which 



Mrs. A. R. Thomas 
(Evelyn S. Rigler) 



mon, lemon or orange 



62 

the yeast has been dissolved, and stir until the lumps are all 
gone. After mixing thoroughly beat steadily for five min- 
utes, sprinkle a little flour over the top and set to rise. 
Cover the sponge so it will be warm. (When yeast is used, 
mix with the milk and add the yeast last, beating thoroughly.) 
In the morning, add to the light sponge the other ]/ 2 cup of 
sugar and make into a soft dough. (Be careful not to make 
the dough stiff) Let this rise again, and when light mold 
into small biscuits. Set these to rise, letting them get quite 
light before baking. When risen enough, bake in a hot oven 
until done (about thirty minutes). 

DOUGHNUTS l pint milk > # pound 

1 "* shortening (half butter, half 

BY lard), yeast cake, enough 

Mrs. Charles B. Stretch flour to make it stiff. When 

tt • i ^ h^ht, add I pound sugar, x 

(Anna Humphrey) , , 

e gg s » 72 nutmeg, and mold 

into a loaf. When again light, roll out and cut and boil, 

dipping each one in a mixture of cinnamon and sugar as it 

is taken from the boiling lard. 

SOFT GItfGEt#l{EflD ' c " p ,?" gar ' ' T, sl ^ ten ; 

1 ing — half butter and half lard, 

BY i cup New Orleans molasses, 

Mrs. J. B. Brenniser I cup milk, 2 eggs, I tea- 

(LizzieS.Cuskaden) S P°° llful S in & er ' ! teaspoon- 

ful cinnamon, i teaspoonfui 

soda dissolved in warm water. Flour, sufficient to make a 

drop dough. Bake in muffin pans. 



«3 



BUTTER CAKES 

BY 

Mrs. A. H. Marcus 
(Sophie Marcus) 



Put into a large dish I 
pound of the best butter, I 
pound of granulated sugar, 2 
pounds flour well sifted, the 
grated rind of 2 lemons, 1 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract, 
3 e gg s we U beaten, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Work with the hands until it comes 
together, roll very thin, cut, sprinkle a little granulated sugar 
on each cake, and bake in a hot oven. 



SCOTCH CAKES 

BY 

Mrs. Howard S. Stetler 

(Ida Dwier\ 



I pound flour, 1 pound 
sugar, ^ pound butter, 3 
eggs, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 
and cloves. Roll out very 
thin in equal quantities of 
sugar and flour. Half the 
quantities may be used with 
good result. 



Beat the whites of 3 eggs 
stiff and add j4 pound pulve- 
rized sugar, and, last, )4 
pound shellbark kernels that 
have been reduced to a flour 
by enclosing in a bag, putting 
on board, and pounding with potato masher. Drop the 
mixture from teaspoon 0:1 greased pan — be sure to allow a 



Shellback JVfaearoons 

BY 

Mrs. Leon Gans 

(Teresa Hamburger) 



64 

good space between — and bake till yellow brown. After 
taking from oven, allow to set about one minute. (We con- 
sider these very fine.) 



VOHK STRTE SflflPS 



BY 



I cup of dark sugar (hard 
to get), i cup of New Orleans 
molasses, y 2 cup of shorten- 
ing of any kind, I teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon, y 2 tea- 
spoonful ground cloves, ^ 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little water, enough flour to 
roll very thin. Bake in a quick oven. Place in an earthen 
jar. Housekeepers will find that they will not keep, unless 
under lock and key. 



Mrs. Franklin Collier 
(Emma Kauffman) ' 



For the sponge take I quart 
and i pint of flour, i quart of 
warm water, I tablespoonful 
sugar, i tablespoonful lard, I 
cent's worth baker's yeast. 
Melt the lard and sugar in 
the warm water. Stir this 
into the flour, which must be 
sifted. Lastly, stir in the yeast. Beat up hard for several 
minutes and set to rise over night. The next morning sift 2 
quarts and i pint of flour in a deep bread tray with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of salt. Into this mix thoroughly Y / 2 pound roll 
butter and W pound lard. Make a hole in the middle of the 



Old-Fashioned Datcn 
Cake 

BY 

Mrs. Wm. McCambridge 

(Laura G. Fagen) 



65 

heap, into which put the following: — i nutmeg grated, 3 
cups sugar, 2 eggs, ]/ 2 pound sultana raisins and J^ pound 
currants — washed and dried, the risen sponge. Work this 
the same as bread. Then divide into loaves, putting 
these into well-greased, round, deep pans. Set the pans in a 
warm place (over the range, if possible), with a cloth thrown 
over them to exclude the air and dust. Let rise from five to 
six hours. Then bake in a moderate oven one hour, or until 
a clean straw, run through the thickest part, will come out 
clean. 



HA^TFOHD TEA CAP 



BY 



7 cups of flour, 6 cups of 
sugar, 3 cups of butter, 3 cups 
of milk, 8 eggs, yi glass of 
Miss Mattie A. Cairl. brandy warmed in milk, 2 

pounds of raisins, 2 pounds 
of currants, 1 ]/ 2 pounds of citron, spices to taste, 4 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder sifted through the flour. Cream the 
butter and sugar; add the beaten yelks, milk, and spices. 
Then, the whipped whites stirred in alternately with the 
flour. Lastly, the fruit. 



ItOHG ISMflD CAKE 



BY 



Mrs. Charles Burr 
(Henrietta Thomas) 



y 2 pound butter, 1 pound 
sugar, 1 pound flour, 4 eggs, 
y 2 pint milk, baking powder. 
Add fruit — raisins, currants, 
and citron. This will keep 
for some time. 



66 

T pint of milk, I pound of 

STOCK GtyflfiGE Gfl^E poU nd of currants, % pound 

by of butter, I nutmeg, cinnamon 

_ to taste, 3 even teaspoons 

Miss Jane Campbell , , . , -n 1 • 

■* baking powder, bake in a 

medium oven. 



FHUIT Gflp 



(M. A. Mecaskey) 



I pound of butter, I pound 
of flour, I pound of sugar, 10 
BY eggs, i tablespoonful of vanilla, 

Mrs. S. S. Cavin 2 teaspoonfuls of ground cin- 

namon, ]/ 2 teaspoonful of 
ground cloves, y 2 cup cream 
pounds of raisins (seeded and chopped), 1 ]/ 2 
pounds currants (washed, picked, and dried), ^ pound of 
citron (washed, wiped dry, and cut in small, thin pieces), x / 2 
cup cold coffee. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. 
Whisk the eggs until thick, and add them by degrees with 
the spices and vanilla. Then stir in cream and one-fourth 
the flour. Add the coffee, and the remainder of the flour, 
half at a time. Lastly, add the fruit, and beat all well together. 
Butter your pan and line with white paper; put in the mix- 
ture, spread it smooth over the top with a knife, and bake in 
a moderate oven about four hours. 



6 7 



WRSHIHGTOH CAKE 



BY 



3 ounces butter, 6 ounces 
sugar, 7 ounces flour, 2 eggs 
well beaten, i gill of sour milk 
or buttermilk, pinch of mace, 
i tablespoonful vinegar, }/£ 
of level teaspoonful of baking 
soda dissolved in a little sweet milk. Cream butter and 
sugar together, add the well-beaten eggs and the sour milk, 
then flour (sifted), mace, vinegar and soda. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



Mrs. George W. Elkins 
(Frances L. Standbridge) 



SOFT ICIflG CAKE 



BY 



Mrs. J. K. Barton 

(Millie S. Scott) 



Boil 6 ounces of granu- 
lated sugar and 3^ table- 
spoonfuls of water together 
for eight or ten minutes. 



Beat the yelks of four eggs 
very light ; save out the white 
of one for the icing ; beat the remaining whites to a stiff 
froth. Pour the boiling water and sugar over the beaten 
yelks and beat until cold. Sift J^ pound of flour, and stir 
in alternately the whites and the flour. Flavor with a table- 
spoonful of extract of vanilla. Bake in a well-greased pan 
about twenty minutes (a square pan cuts better slices). 
Icing : — 1 tea cup granulated sugar and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
water ; boil together about ten minutes. Beat the remaining 
white very stiff, pour the boiling water and sugar into it, 
beat until cold, and spread over top and sides of cake. 



68 

A DELICATE CAP a J.\ ME: Abou ' ' f hour - 

Articles : I pound of sugar, 

BY i pound of flour, 7 ounces of 

Mrs. William Stout butter, whites of 6 eggs, % 

,_.. ^ T x nutmeg grated, a little lemon 

(Ellen T. Jones) s *L . \ 

extract. Directions : — Beat the 

butter to a cream and stir into it the sugar and flour, then 

add the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, the grated nutmeg, 

and the lemon extract. Beat all well together and put into 

a tin lined with buttered paper. 5 or 6 ounces of powdered 

almonds may be added to this cake, according to your taste. 

SPOHGE CAKE l cu P/ ifted fl ,°" r < 4 egf. 

1 I cup of sugar (A), 1 table- 

BY spoonful of vinegar, flavor to 

Mrs. James Harte taste. Beat the eggs and 

„ . ux sugar together for twenty 

(Emma Coulomb) b & . J 

minutes. Add (without beat- 
ing) the flour. Flavor, and stir in the vinegar as gently as 
possible. Bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 
Butter the pan and bake immediately. 



BOIItED SPOflGE CAKE f Y ELKS of J '*&•> whites 

of 6 eggs ; % pound granu- 
BY lated sugar and 6 tablespoon- 

Miss Ella S. Braden *uls water boiled until clear ; 

pour slowly over the beaten 
whites and yelks, stirring while pouring. When cool, add 



6 9 

]/ 2 pound sifted flour (stir, not beat). Flavor to taste. Bake 
in a long pan twenty-five or thirty minutes in a very slow oven. 



SPOflGE GIflGEtJ Cfl^E 



BY 



2 cups sugar, i cup mo- 
lasses, i cup butter, 4 eggs, 1 
cup sour milk, 3 cups flour, 
Mrs. George Clement % teaspoonful soda, 2 tea- 
(Margaret Macaulay) spoonfuls ginger. 



RliPJlD CHEAJVI CAP 



(Florence T. Kennedy) 



2 cups sugar, l / 2 cup butter, 

1 lemon — juice and grated 

BY rind, 4 eggs — 3 whites and 4 

Mrs. Wm. T. Burke V elk s beaten separately, 1 cup 

cold water, 3 cups flour, 3 even 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the lemon, the yelks, the 
water, the flour and powder sifted together, and the whites. 
Beat hard and bake in jelly cake tins. Filling : — 1 cup milk, 
3 even teaspoonfuls cornstarch, yelk of 1 egg, x / 2 cup sugar, 
y 2 cup almonds, blanched and chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla. Heat the milk to boiling, thicken with cornstarch 
wet in a little cold milk, pour in the whipped yelks and sugar, 
and cook all ten minutes, stirring constantly. Then cool, add 
flavoring and almonds. Icing : — Whip the two reserved whites 
to a stiff froth, add a few drops lemon juice, and sufficient 
pulverized sugar to make thick enough to spread. Cover 
top and sides. Before it hardens lay the kernels of English 
walnuts in two layers or circles on top of cake. 



70 

EDGE Mllilt CRKE 2 c u ups g ranulated su f r < # 

1 cup butter, 4 eggs, y 2 cup 

rAr milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoon- 

Miss Ella P. Macaulay ^ls baking powder. Cream 

butter and sugar; then add 
beaten yelks of eggs; next the milk. Mix baking powder 
and flour thoroughly together, and add flour and well-beaten 
whites of eggs alternately. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 
and bake in three layer pans. Icing:— Whites of 2 eggs well 
beaten, I cup pulverized sugar, % cup water. Boil sugar 
and water until the mixture hairs or strings from the spoon. 
When cool, add whites of eggs and flavor with vanilla. 

IiRYEft SPOflGE CRKE 5 eggs - 2 cu fl ps *TtT 

y K y sugar, 2 cups flour (sifted), 1 

BY teaspoonful Royal Baking 

Mrs. Wm. C. Crowell Powder, % cup boiling water, 

, . flavor to taste (rose water pre- 

(Jenme Macauley) . J r 

VJ ferred). Directions: — Beat the 

yelks and whites of eggs separately (reserving the white of 

one egg for icing); then add the sugar to the yelks; then, 

whites of eggs ; next, flour and baking powder; lastly, put 

in boiling water and place immediately in oven. Bake in 

two layers, and when cold ice with following icing: 1 cup 

granulated sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls water ; boil together seven 

minutes ; then pour into the white of the egg, which has 

been well beaten. Beat all the time you are pouring the 

sugar into the egg; flavor; then spread on cakes when both 

are cool. 



7i 

SPICE CAKE ^ cup butter > 2 cu p s su £ ar > 

3 eggs (leave out the whites 

BY of 2 of them), i cup sour 

Mrs. Isaiah Rudy milk > l teaspoonful baking 

,, ta i \ soda (or, you can use sweet 

(Laura Dales) . 

milk with 2 teaspoons baking 

powder), flour enough for rather a stiff dough, I heaping 

spoon of ground cinnamon. Dissolve the soda in a little 

boiling water, put in last. Bake in three layers. Ice in 

between the layers, thickly, using for this the two whites you 

have reserved. 



fllamnae JVIemopancfom Page 



Alumnae JJemopandam Page 



Alumnae f/IemoFandum Page 



Helpful Words for the Alumnae 
Gookbook 

f pom JVtembere of the Alumnae. 

A small drop of ink 
Falling like dew upon a thought. — Byron. 

x Miss Virginia Maitland. 
" Wishing you every success in your undertaking." 

Miss Grace E. Spiegle. 

11 I received the enclosed list from Miss Baldwin [names 
of possible contributors], and we both hope it will be of some 
use to x ou -" 

Miss Clara J. Hendley. 

" I think the cookbook idea a capital one, and I hope you 
will have no difficulty in finding contributors, and that the 
sale at the Bazar will be a great success." 

Miss Linda M. Whitaker. 

" I think the cookbook is a bright idea. Best wishes for 
the success of your plan." 



;6 

Mrs. M. McCullough. 

" I willingly will subscribe for the new cookbook, but have 
no recipe to contribute. Thanking you for your kindness in 
including me among the ioo." 

Miss Mary Kereven. 

" If you will write to Mrs. , she will give you an excel- 
lent recipe. Mrs. makes a delicious fruit pie. I intended 

to send these recipes, but do not wish to keep you longer 
waiting for my answer." 

Miss Mary S. Holmes. 

" I do wish you success, for this sort of thing is no light 
matter." 

Miss A. C. Voute. 

" I delayed replying to your note in hopes of obtaining 
definite information for you. Should I have anything more 
satisfactory I will communicate with you. Hoping the 
information [given] may be of service to you." 

Miss Sophie Schrader. 

tl These receipts were sent to me. I hope they are not too 
late for use." 



77 

Miss Louise H. Haeseler. 

" I have not my list of addresses with me where I am 
spending the summer. I have forwarded your note to 
another member of our class, and no doubt she will attend 
to it." 

Miss H. C. Leypoldt. 

" Sends the above addresses, all of Philadelphia." 

Miss Adah V. Hubbs. 

" Enclosed you will find the names of those of my class 
whom I imagine are, or should be, best versed in matters 
pertaining to culinary art." 

Miss Isabella M. Wilbur. 

" May these messengers of good things find a warm wel- 
come in many homes." 

Misses E. L. Ridgely, Bessie H. Du Bois, Blanche 
Baldwin, C. M. Taylor, A. P. Wylie 

kindly sent lists of possible contributors. 



Alumnae Jflemorandum Page 



Alumnae Memorandum Page 



Alumnae Memorandum Page 



I N DEX 



Page 

Note of Thanks 3 

Overheard 5 

Soups, Fish and Shellfish 7 

Soup, Black Bean 7 

Calfs Head 8 

Clam 7 

Fish, Salmon, baked 9 

Sheepshead, boiled 9 

Shellfish, Clams, deviled 12 

Lobster cutlets 13 

Oysters, creamed 10 

Oysters, croquettes 10 

Oysters, fried 10 

Oysters, pie 11 

Dishes for Breakfast, Luncheon, or Tea 17 

Almonds, salted 23 

Beans, Philadelphia baked 22 

Beef, pressed 19 

Birds without heads 18 

Chicken salad 19 

Chicken terrapin iS 

Corn fritters 22 

Cream dressing 23 

Kidney, beef 17 

Maccaroni, with cheese .... 20 

Potato croquettes 21 

Potato fricassee 21 

Potato omelette 21 

Tamales, Mexican 17 

Tomatoes, baked 22 

Tomatoes, salad 23 

Welsh rarebit 20 



82 

Page 

Pickles and Sauces 27 

Catsup, cold, Mrs. P's 29 

Catsup, cold, Mrs. R's 30 

Cherries, pickled 28 

Cucumber pickles 27 

Currant Soy 27 

Parker House Dressing 29 

Peaches, pickled 28 

Sauce, Chili 29 

Sauce, Grandma Slifer's ketchup 31 

Tomato ketchup 30 

Bread, Rolls and Hot Cakes 35 

Bread, corn 36 

Bread, homemade 35 

Batter cakes 38 

Biscuit, hot 37 

Graham Gems 37 

Muffins 38 

Muffins, Milton 38 

Pop overs 37 

Sally Lunn 36 

Yeast, homemade 35 

Puddings and Pastry 41 

Custard, chocolate 45 

Custard, French 45 

Dessert, a palatable 44 

Mince-meat, temperance 49 

Mush, blackberry 41 

Pudding, boiled fruit 43 

Pudding, cabinet 46 

Pudding, cherry 41 

Pudding, Indian 43 

Pudding, Maryland 42 

Pudding, papa's 42 

Pudding, plum 42 

Pudding, excellent rice 44 

Pudding, rice 44 

Pudding, snow 45 

Pie, cheese cake 47 



83 

Page 

Pie, cheese custard 4 8 

Pie, mock mince-meat 4-8 

Tart, hazlenut 47 

Ices and Sweets 53 

Frozen Charlotte Russe 54 

Frozen custard 53 

Frozen strawberries 53 

French tapioca 55 

Fruit candy 56 

Fruit gelatine 54 

Lemon butter, Mrs. L's 56 

Lemon butter, Mrs. M's 5^ 

Orange meringue 54 

Taffy, Alumnae §6 

Cakes 6r 

Biscuit, sugar 6i 

Cakes, butter 63 

Cakes, Scotch 63 

Cakes, soft gingerbread 62 

Cakes, York State snaps 64 

Cake, almond cream 69 

Cake, boiled sponge 68 

Cake, delicate 68 

Cake, Dutch 6 4 

Cake, Edge Hill 7° 

Cake, fruit 66 

Cake, Hartford Tea 65 

Cake, Long Island 65 

Cake, layer sponge 7" 

Cake, soft icing 6 7 

Cake, spice 7 1 

Cake, sponge 68 

Cake, sponge ginger 69 

Cake, Stock Grange 66 

Cake, Washington 67 

Cookies, Moravian Christmas 61 

Doughnuts 62 

Macaroons, shellbark 63 

Helpful Words 75> 7 6 , 77 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




WWBBIiiEil,, ° ° 14 481 253 ° • 



Burk & McFetridge 




Printers t 

LlTHOQR/iPHERS 

Publishers * 



306-308 CHESTNUT ST. 
PHlbHCHhPfliA 




