LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

^^3 



Shelf ....ES-2>'i 

UNITED STATES OF AMERIOA. 



a/ 




&! 10 Cents 

w 



lO Cents 



EVERYDAY 



c;oof\ B00i\. 




FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 
■" "|,, EVERYWHERE. 




THE 



H/^)\(D-BoOl^ llBI^/^FjY. 



No. I— WOMEN'S SECRETS; or, How 
TO BE Beautiful. 

No. 2— MILL'S UNIVERSAL LETTER- 
WRITER 



No. 3— HERRMANN'S BLACK ART 

No. 4— SELECT RECITATIONS AND 
READINGS. 

No. 5— ZOLA'S FORTUNE-TELLER. 

No. 6— BOOK OF KNOWLEDGE. 

No. 7— ZOLA'S DREAM BOOK. . 

No. 8— HOYLE'S GAMES. 

No. 9— HERRMANN'S TRICKS WITH 
CARDS 



«-^'^&^- 



25 

25 
25 

25 
25 
25 
25 
25 

25 



These popular books are large type editions, well printed, well 
bound, and in liandsome covers. For sale by all Booksellers and 
Newsdealers; or sent, postage free, on receipt of price, by the pub- 
lishers, STREET & SMITH, 

25. 27, 20 and 31 ltOi« Street, New YoidU 



S;. €^ &m 

MANUAL LIBRARY.-No. 21. 

ISSUED SEMI-MONTHLY. 



Subscription Pkice, $2.40 Peb Year. FEBBTJARY 1, 1891. 

Copyrighted, 1891, &i/ Street & Smith. 
Entered at the Post-Offl.ee, New York, as Second-Class Matter. 



/ 

/ 

EVERYDAY 



COOK BOOK. 



y 'X-'-' ""'-'■ 


f 


i^lO 


V'ii 


NEW YORK: 


, 


STREET & SMITH, Publishers, 


31 Rose Street. 




oo 





■t- ,,\ 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

SOUPS :- 

Plain Veal— Mock Turtle— Beef— Chicken or Turkey 
— Oyster— Pea— Portable — Maccaroni— Gravy — Ox- 
Tail — Venison— A Cheap — Mutton — Lamb— Es- 
pagnole — Vegetable — Tomato — Clam — Kice — 
Onion 5-10 

CHOWDERS :— 

Codfish— Clam 11 

FISH:- 

Codfish, Boiled— Cod, Scalloped— Tail of a Cod- 
Baked Cod— Codfish Pie— Salt Cod— Curried Cod- 
Crimped Cod— Stewed Cod — Fresh Herrings, Baked 
— Fresh Herrings, Boiled— Fresh Herrings, Broiled 
— Fresh Herrings, Fried — To Pot Herrings— Lob- 
ster Curried— Lobster btewed — Lobster Butter— To 
Roast Lobsters— To Boil Mackerel— To Bake Mack- 
erel — To Broil Mackerel— To Fry Mackerel— Roast 
Oysters— An Oyster Pie, with Sweetbreads— Stewed 
Oysters — Scalloped Oysters — Oyster Fritters— To 
Bake Pike— To Boil Pike— To Broil Shad- To Fry 
Shad— To Bake a Shad, Rock-Fish, .r Bass -To 
Dress Crabs— Baked Crabs — Eels Bread-Crumbed — 
Fried Eels— Boiled Eels— Eels Stewed -Halibut. 
Stewed— Halibut CoUoped— To Boil Halibut— To 
Boil Salmon — Salmon Broiled — Dried Salmon 
Broiled— Salmon Roasted — Stewed Salmon— Sal- 
mon Potted— To Pickle Salmon — Quenelles— Trout 
—Trout Stewed— To Boil Perch— Crab Salad 11-25 

MEATS :— 

Roasting— To Roast Beef — To Cook the Inside of 
the Sirloin— Fillet of Beef, Roasted — Rump Steak, 
Stewed — Rump Steak, Broiled — Beef Steaks, 
Broiled — Beef Kidneys, Stewed — Beef Heart, 
Roasted— Brisket of Beef, Stewed— Rump of Beef 
— Beef and Sauer Kraut — A Beef Stew — Beef, 
Hashed — Bubble and Squeak — Beef Sausages — 
Tripe— Veal, the Fillet— Fillet of Veal, Boiled- 
Neck of Veal— Veal Cutlets— Gallantine Veal— 
Emincees — Breast of Veal, Boiled— Breast of Veal, 
Ragout— Shoulder of Veal — Shoulder of Veal, Boned 
and Stewed — Loin of Veal— I^oin of Veal, Boiled— 
Calfs Feet— Calf's Heart— Calf's Kidney— Calfg 
Head for Grill— Calf's Head, Baked— Calf's Brains 
— Calf's Liver — Veal, Curried — Haunch of Mutton 
—Saddle of Mutton— Leg of Mutton, Roasted— Leg 
of Mutton, Boiled— Mutton Kidneys, Broiled— 



iv CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Forequarter of Lamb — Mutton Steaks — Mutton 
Chops, Broiled— Fillet of Mutton— Haricot Mutton 
— Hash Mutton — Irish Stew — To Make a Scotch 
Haggis— Shoulder of Mutton — Loin of Mutton, 
Stewed— Breast of Mutton — To Stew a Brisket of 
Lamb — Sweetbreads — Sheep or Lamb's Trotters — 
To Roast a Leg of Lamb— To Boil a Leg of Lamb 
— To Roast a Sucking Pig— A Leg of Pork, Roasted 
—A Leg of Pork, Boiled— Spare Rib— Boiled Pork 
— Pig's Cheek— Pork Chops or Steaks— Pig's Head, 
Baked — Pig's Head, Boiled — To Bake a Ham — Ham 
Rashers or Slices — To Broil Bacon — Bacon and Cab- 
bage — Bacon and Eggs — Bacon, Toast — Turkey, 
Roast— Turkey, Boiled — Turkey, Hashed— Turkey 
Legs, Broiled — To Roast a Goose— To Roast Ducks 
— To Boil Ducks — Stewed Duck — Wild Ducks, or 
Teal— Roast Fowl— Boiled Fowl— Broiled Fowl- 
Made Dishes of Poultry — An Indian Pilau— Chick- 
ens, Boiled— Chickens, Pulled — Pigeons, Roasted — 
Pigeons, Broiled— Pigeons, Stewed — To Pot Pigeons 
— ^Wood Pigeons— Venison, the Haunch — Hashed 
Venison— Partridges— Partridges, Broiled— Stuffing 
for a Hare— Plovers— Woodcocks and Snipes— Rab- 
bits— Boiled Rabbits— Rabbit with Onions 25-51 

VEGETABLES. SALADS, ETC. :— 

Chartreuse of Vegetables — Asparagus — French 
Beans— French Beans, Salad - fc^tewed Beans — 
Beans, Boiled— Windsor Beans— Haricot Beans- 
Beet Roots — Cabbages — Cabbage, Red — Cauli- 
floiver, to Boil— Gr«en Peas— How to Cook Pota- 
toes—To Boil New Potatoes— Roasted Potatoes- 
Fried Potatoes —Spinach — Lettuce and Endives. . .51-56 
PASTRY, TARTS, ETC.:- 

Puff Paste —Beefsteak Pie— Cold Veal or Chicken 
Pie — Egg Mince Pie — Lemon Mince Pie — Mince Pie 
Without Meat— Mutton Pie— Pork Pie— Squab Pie 
— Yorkshire Pudding — Apple Damplings — Apple 
Tart— Raspberry Tart —Strawberry Tart — Oyster 
Patties— Meat Patties— Rice Pancakes— Apple Frit- 
ters—Indian Corn Cakes — Sponge Cake— A Light 
Cake— Composition Cake Indian Griddle Cake — 
Common Plum Cake— Pound Cake— Tea Cakes — 
Breakfast Butter Cakes— Buckwheat Cakes— Plain 
Indian Cakes— Butter Cakes for Tea— Cream Cakes 
— Rolls— Cup Cake— Tea Cake— Indian Cake— Loaf 
Cake — Common Ginger-Bread — Arrow-Root Cus- 
tards 56-64 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



Plain Veal Soup.— Take a leg of veal and boil 
it with a cup two-thirds full of rice, and a pound 
and a half of pork; season it with salt, j^epper, and 
sweet herbs, if you like. A little celery boiled in 
it gives the soup a line flavor. The veal should be 
taken up before the soup is seasoned. Just before 
the soup is taken up, put in a couple of slices of 
toast, cut into small pieces. 

Mock Tuktle Soup. — Boil a calf's head until 
perfectly teuder ; then take it out, strain the 
liquor, and set it away until the next day; then 
skim off the fat, cut up the meat, together with 
the lio^hts, and put it into the liquor; put it on the 
fire, and season it with salt, pepper, cloves, and 
mace; stew it gently for half an hour. Just before 
you take it up, add half a pint of white wine. For 
the balls, chop lean veal fine, with a little salt 
pork; add the brains, and season it with salt, pep- 
per, cloves, mace, and sweet herbs; make it up 
into balls about the size of half an egg; boil part 
ill the soup, and fry the remainder, and put them 
in a dish by themselves. 



6 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Beef Soup. — Boil a shank of beef four or five 
hours in water enough to cover it. Half an hour 
before the soup is put on the table, take up the 
meat, thicken the soup with scorched flour mixed 
with cold water; season it with salt, pepper, 
cloves, and mace. A little walnut or tomato cat- 
sup improves it. Make force meat balls of part 
of the beef and pork, season tliem with mace, 
cloves, pepper, and salt, and boil them in the soup 
fifteen minutes. 

Chicken- or Turkey Soup.— The liquor that a 
chicken or turkey is boiled in makes a good soup. 
Put in half a teacupful of rice, when the liquor 
boils, or slice up a few potatoes and put in. Season 
it with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, and a little celery. 
Toast bread or crackers, and put them in the soup 
when you take it up. 

Oyster Soup. — Separate the oysters from the 
liquor; to eacli quart of the liquor put a pint of 
milk or water; set it on the fire with the oysters. 
Mix a heaping tablespoonful of flour with a little 
water, and stir it into the liquor as soon as it boils. 
Season it with salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. 
Put in a small lump of butter, and turn it as soon 
as it boils up again on to buttered toast; cut into 
small pieces. 

Pea Soup. — If you make your soup of dry peas, 
soak them over night in a warm place, using a 
quart of water to each quart of the peas. Etirly 
the next morning: boil them an hour. Boil with 
them a teaspoonful of saleratus, eight or ten 
minutes, then take them out of the water they 
were soaking in, put them into fresh water, with a 
pound of salt pork, and boil it till the peas are 
soft, which will be in the course of three or four 
hours. Green peas for soup req^uire no soaking. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 7 

and boiling only long enough to have the pork get 
thoroughly cooked, which will be iu the course of 
an hour. 

Portable Soup. — Take beef or veal soup, and 
let it get perfectly cold, then skim off every 
particle of the grease. Set it on the fire, and let 
it boil till of a thick, glutinous consistence. Care 
should be taken that it does not burn. Season it 
higiily with salt, pepper, cloves, and mace — add a 
little wine or brandy, and then turn it on to 
earthern platters. It should not be more than a 
quarter of an inch in thicuness. Let it remain 
until cold, then cut it in pieces three inches square; 
set tliem in the sun to dry, turning them fre- 
quently. When perfectly dry, put them in an 
earthern or tin vessel, having a layer of white 
paper between each layer. These, if the direc- 
tions are strictly attended to, will keep good a long 
time. Whenever you wish to make a soup of 
them, nothing more is necessary than to put a 
quart of water to one of the cakes and heat it very 
hot. 

Macaroni Soup. — Take a given weight of 
macaroni, in proportion to the quantity of soup 
required (say one pound), and boil it in a quart of 
beef or other soup, until it is tender, then take 
out one half and keep the other boiling until it is 
reduced to a pulp. Add sufficient soup until the 
whole, with half a pint of cream, boiling, makes five 
pints; grate eight ounces of Parmesan cheese, and 
add the half of the nnicaroni which had been 
only boiled tender, warm it without boiling, and 
serve with toast. 

Gravy Soup. — Take a leg of beef, well wash 
and soak it, break the bone, put it into a saucepan 
with a gallon of watery a large bunch of swe^t 



8 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

herbs, two large onions sliced and fried to a nice 
brown, taking great care they are not burnt, two 
blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of 
allspice, and forty of black pepper, and stew till 
the soup is as rich as you wish it to be, then take 
out the meat; when it is cold, take off the fat, 
heat the soup, with vermicelli, and the nicest part 
of a head of celery boiled and cut to pieces, cayenne, 
and a little salt; carrot may be added, with turnip 
cut up into small pieces, and boiled with spinach 
and endive, or the herbs without the vermicelli, or 
vermicelli only; add also a large spoonful of soy, 
and one of mushroom catsup. A French roll 
should be made hot and put into the soup. 

Ox-Tail Soup. — Same as gravy soup, adding 
about three ox-tails, separated at the joints; when 
the meat upon them is tender, it is done; they 
must not be over-stewed ; add a spoonful of catsup, 
and send to table with pieces of the tail in the 
Boup. 

Venison Soup.— Take four pounds of freshly 
killed venison cut off from the bones, and one 
pound of ham in small slices. Add an onion 
minced, and black pepper to your taste. Put only 
as much water as will cover it, and stew it gently 
for an hour, keeping the pot closely covered. Skim 
it well, and pour in a quart of boiling water. Add 
a head of celery cut small, and three blades of 
mace. Boil it gently two hours and a half; then 
put in quarter of a pound of butter, cut small and 
rolled in flour, and half -pint of Port or Madeira. 
Let it boil quarter of an hour longer, and send it 
to the table with the meat in it. 

A Cheap Soup. — A pound or a pound and a 
half of lean beef, cut up into small pieces, six 
quarts of water; stew in three large onions, with 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 9 

double the quantity of turnips; put in thyme, 
parsley, pepper, and salt, half a pound of rice, a 
pound of potatoes peeled and cut in quarters, and 
a handful of oatmeal. Stew from three to four 
hours, not less. 

Mutton Soup. — Cut a neck of mutton into four 
pieces, and put it aside, then take a slice of the 
gammon of bacon and put it into a saucepan with 
a quart of peas and enough water to boil them; let 
the peas boil to a pulp, then strain them through 
a cloth, and put them aside; add enough water to 
that in which is the bacon to boil the mutton; slice 
three turnips, as many carrots, and boil for an 
hour slowly, adding sweet herbs, onions, cabbage, 
and lettuce chopped small; then stew a quarter of 
an hour longer, sufficient to cook the mutton, 
then take it out, and take some fresh green peas, 
add them with some chopped parsley and the peas 
first boiled to the soup, put in a lump of butter 
rolled in flour, and stew till the green peas are 
done. 

Lamb Soup. — May be cooked as mutton, save 
that beef may be substituted for the bacon. 

EsPAGNOLE. — Take fourteen pounds of the leg 
or shoulder of veal and an old fowl, chop the veal 
into pieces, and put the whole into a saucepan, 
with two carrots, two onions, a pound of ham, a 
few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a 
clove of garlic; let this stew over the fire, shaking 
it frequently, till it becomes of a brown color, 
then add hot water to come four inches above 
the meat, set it by the stove to boil gently, skim- 
ming when the meat comes from the bones, strain 
it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. 

Vegetable Soup. — Collect whatever vegetables 
are in season, take equal quantities, turnips, 



10 E^'ERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

carrots, parsley, celery, leeks, six tomatoes, half 
cup of rice, tinee pounds soup meat (l)eef), one 
marrow bone, uml tlii-ee quarts water. Boil meat 
tlin.'e hours, vegetables two hours. 

Tomato Soup. — Take two pounds of soup beef, 
and boil in two quarts of water two hours; then 
add one can or one quart of tomatoes, and boil one 
hour longer. Just before tlie soup is done, add 
oue-haif teaspoonful of baking soda. Put in one 
quart of milk, and remove from fire soon as milk 
boils up. 

Clam Soup. — Take twenty-five hard-shell clams, 
removed from shells. Be careful, in opening the 
clams, to preserve all the liquor. Place chims and 
liquor in two quarts of water. Boil one-half hour. 
Slice three potatoes thin, cut fine a little sprig of 
parsley. Add parsley and potatoes to the soup, 
and boil until potatoes are cooked. Beat one egg, 
add one-quarter teaspoonful of baking powder, 
two tablespoonfuls water, and enough flour to 
make soft dough. Drop dough in small spoonfuls 
into soup while boiling, about fifteen minutes be* 
fore the whole is done. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Rice Soup. — Soak four ounces of fine rice in 
cold water for an hour, then boil it; add three 
quarts of gravy, a pinch of cayenne, a little salt, 
and boil five minutes. 

Onion Soup. — In two quarts of weak mutton 
broth slice two turnips and as many carrots; then 
strain it. Fry six onions cut in slices; when nicely 
browned add them to the broth; simmer three 
hours, skim, and serve. 



EVEBYDAY COOK BOOK. U 



CHOWDERS. 

Codfish Chowder. — Fry some slices cut from 
the fat part of pork, ir a deep stewpan, mix sliced 
onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them 
on tiie pork; bone and cut a fresh cod into thick 
slices, and place tliem on the pork, then put a 
layer of siiees of pork, on that a layer of hard bis- 
cuit or crackers, then alternately, the pork, fish, 
and cnickers, with the onions and herbs scattered 
through them, till the pan is nearly full; season 
with pepper and salt; put in about two quarts of 
water, cover the stewpan close, and let it stand with 
fire above and below it four hours; then skim it 
well and serve it. 

Clam Chower. — Take half a pound of fat salt 
pork cut in slices, ciiop fine, and place in a large 
iron saucepan, without watt^r; fry tlie pork brown, 
then add fifty hard-shell clams, choj^ped fine; also 
the liquor from the clams, four quarts of \Vater, 
six large onions, six large potatoes, one quart of 
tomatoes, all chopped fine. Boil four or five hours. 
Add one half pound pilot biscuit, broken, and 
sejison with thyme, pepper, and salt about half an 
hour before done. 



FISH. 



Cod Fish, Boiled, — A small fish should be 
selected. Tie up the head and shoulders well, 
))lace it in the kettle wir|i enough cold water to 
completely CDver it; cast in a hanoful of salt. The 
fish, if a small cue, will be cooited in twenty 



12 EVERYDAY COOK ^OOK. 

minutes after it has boiled; if large, it will take 
half an hour. When done enough, drain it clear 
of the scum, and remove the string; send it to 
table garnished with the liver, the smelt, and the 
roe of the fish, scraped horse-radish, lemon sliced, 
and sprigs of parsley. 

Cod Scalloped. — Take enough cold dressed cod 
to nearly fill all the shells you purpose using, pound 
it, beat up the yolk of an egg and pour over it, 
add a few shrimps skinned, salt, pepper, and a 
little butter; do not quite fill the shells, strew 
over them fine bread crumbs, and drop butter in a 
liquid state over them. Brown them before the 
fire in a Dutch oven. 

Tail of a Cod. — Boil as previously directed, 
and when sufficiently done, divide it into moderate 
sized pieceS; and in a light batter fry them brown. 
Send up crisped parsley with it as a garnish. 

Baked Cod. — Cut a large fine piece out of the 
middle of the fish, ;ind skin it carefully; stuff it 
with a stuffing composed of the yolks of two eggs 
boiled hard, thfe roe half-boiled, bread crumbs, 
grated lemon-peel, butter^ pepper, and salt to 
taste. Blind it with the undressed white of an 
egg, and sew in the stuffing with white thread, 
bake it in a Dutch oven before the fire, turn it 
frequently, and baste it with butter; serve with 
shrimp sance, plain butter, or oyster sauce. A tin 
baking-dish is preferable to any other for cooking 
this fish. 

CoD-FiSH Pie. — Take a piece from the middle 
of a good sized fish, salt it well all night, then 
wash it, and sesisonwith salt. pep[)er, and a few 
grains of nutmeg, a little chopped parsley and 
some oysters, put all in your dish, with pieces of 
butter on the fish; add a cu]) of good second white 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 13 

Btock and cream; cover it with a good crust, add- 
ing a little lemon juice in the gravy. 

Salt Cod.— Soak the fish for eight hours in 
clean cold water (not spring water), let the water 
have enough vinegar in it to impregnate it with a 
slight flavor and no more after soaking the above 
time, take it out and let it drain three or four 
hours, then put in soak again for four hours; when 
this has been done, place it in a fish-kettle with 
plenty of cold soft water, let it come to a boil very 
slowly, place it on the side of the fire, and it will 
cook gradually until enough. Serve with parsnips 
and egg sauce. 

Curried Cod. — Cut some handsome steaks of 
cod, slice a number of onions, and fry both a good 
brown color, stew the fish in white gravy, add a 
large teaspoonful of curry powder, a third that 
quantity of cayenne pepper, thicken with three 
spoonfuls of cream, a little butter, a pinch of salt, 
and a little flour. 

Crimped Cod. — Cut the cod in slices, and lay 
it for about three hours in spring water salted, 
adding one wine-glassful of vinegar; make a fish 
kettle three parts full of spring water, in which a 
large handful of salt has been thrown, let it boil 
quickly, put in the cod, and keep it boiling for ten 
minutes; take up the slices of fish, garnish with 
sprigs of parsley, sliced lemon, and horse-radish 
scraped into curls; serve with shrimp and oyster 
sauce. 

Stewed Cod.— Cut some of the finest pieces 
from the thickest part of the fish, place them in a 
stewpan with a lump of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, or larger, three or four blades of mace, bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, a small bunch of sweet 
herbs, and some oysters, with a little of their own 



14 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

liquor. "When nearly done, add a large wine-glass 
of sherry, and stew £,ently until enough. 

Fresh Herrings Baked. — Wash the herrings 
in clear spring water, and when they are thor- 
oughly clean, drain them, and then, without 
wiping them, lay them in a dish or baking-pan; 
pepper and salt them, chop finely two or three 
onions, some parsley, thyme, and strew over them; 
cover them in equal proportions of vinegar and 
small beer; tie them over, and let them bake one 
hour in a slow oven. They should be kept iu the 
pickle, and make a pleasant dish when cold. 

Fresh Herrings Boiled. — Clean them, wash 
them over with vinegar, and put them in boiling 
water; they will take from ten to twelve minutes. 
Garnish with parsley, and serve melted butter, in 
which a tablespoonful of catsup, a teaspoonful of 
Chili vinegar, and one of made mustard has been 
mixed while making. 

Fresh Herrings Broiled. — Steep them first 
in vinegar and water into which a handful ot salt 
has been thrown; let them remain ten minutes, 
then take them out and broil them over a clear 
fire. Serve, garnished with parsley. They may 
be eaten with melted butter, with a little mustard 
and vinegar in it, or lemon juice instead of the 
latter, being preferable. 

Fresh Herrings Fried.— Slice small onions, 
and lay in the pan with the fish, or fry separately. 
Serve the fish with the onions laid round them. 
The herrings are generally fried without the 
onions, but those who are partial to this strongly- 
flavored vegetable will prefer the addition. 

To Pot Herrings. — Take from one to two 
dozen herrings, according to the number you pur- 



EVEEYDAY COOK BOOK. 15 

pose potting. Take two ounces of salt, one of 
saltpeter, two of allspice, reduce them to an im- 
palpable powder, and rub them well into the 
herrings; let them remain with the spice upon 
them eight hours to drain, wipe off the spice clea?!, 
ajid lay them on a pan on which butter h;i8 been 
rubbed; season with nutmeg, mace, pepper, salt, 
and one clove, in powder, one ounce each, save the 
last; lay in two or three bay leaves, cover with 
butter, and bake gently three hours. When cool, 
drain oif the liquor, pack the fish in the pots in- 
tended for their use, cover to the depth of half an 
inch with clarified butter, sufficiently melted just 
to run, but do not permit it to be hot; they will 
be ready for eating in two days. 

Lobster Curried. — Take the meat of a fine 
lobster, or two, if small, place in a stewpan two 
dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, add two ounces 
of butter, an onion cut in very fine strips, and 
three dessert-spoonfuls of fish stock. When they 
are stewed well, add the lobster, simmer gently an 
hour, squeeze in half a lemon, and season with a 
little salt. 

Lobster Stewed. — Extract from the shells of 
two lobsters, previously boiled, all of the meat; 
take two-thirds of a quart of water, and stew the 
shells in it, with mace, unground pepper, and salt. 
Let it boil an hour or more, till you have obtained 
all that is to be gotten from them; then strain. Add 
the richest portions of the lobster, and some of 
the best of the firm meat, to some thin melted 
butter; squeeze a little lemon juice into it, add a 
tablespoonful of Madeira, pour this into the gravy, 
and, when warmed, it is ready to serve. 

Lobster Butter. — The hen lobster should be 
selected, on account of the corals; take out the 



16 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

meat and spawn, and bruise it in a mortar; add to 
it a teaspoonful of white wine, season with pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon peel; add 
four ounces of butter, slightly dusted over with 
flour. Work this well together, and rub it through 
a hair sieve. It should be kept in a cool place till 
ready to serve. 

To Roast Lobsters. — Take a live lobster, half 
boil it, take it from the kettle in which it is boil- 
ing, dry it with a cloth, and while hot, rub it over 
with butter, and set it before a good fire, basting 
it with butter; when it produces a fine froth, it is 
done. Serve with melted butter. 

To Boil Mackerel. — Clean the fish thoroughly, 
remove the roe, steep it in vinegar and water, and 
replace it; place the fish in water from which the 
chill has been taken, and boil very slowly from 
fifteen to twenty minutes; garnish with parsley, 
and chopped parsley in melted butter; serve up as 
sauce. 

To Bake Mackerel. — Open and clean thor- 
oughly, wipe very dry, pepper and salt the inside, 
and put iu a stuffing composed of powdered bread 
ci'umbs, the roe chopped small, parsley, and sweet 
herbs, but very few of the latter, work these 
together with the yolk of an egg, pepper and salt 
to taste, and sew it in the fish; then place the 
latter in a deep baking dish, and dredge it with 
flour, slightly, adding a little cold butter in small 
pieces; put the fish into an oven, and twenty-eight 
or thirty minutes will suffice to cook them. Send 
them in a hot dish to table, with parsley and 
butter. 

To Broil Mackerel. — Cleanse it well, and cut 
with a sharp knife a gash from head to tail, just 
sufficient on one side to clear the backbone, pass 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 17 

into the incision a little pepper (cayenne) and 
salt, moistened with clarified butter, broil it over 
a clear fire; the sides being the thinnest part, they 
will be first done; therefore, when they are done, 
take the fish off the gridiron, and hold it in front 
of the fire for five minutes, the back of the fish 
being next the fire, and the fish will be thoroughly 
done; this is the readiest and most effective mode. 
The sauce may be the same as for boiled mackerel, 
or sauce a la maitre d'hotel. 

To Fry Mackerel. — Thoroughly clean the 
fish, cut off the tails, and with a sharp knife lay 
the fish completelv open, and remove the back- 
bone. Dry the mackerel thoroughly, sprinkle with 
powdered salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and, 
when the lard in the frying-pan is boiling, lay 
them in, and fry them a clear brown. 

Roast Oysters.— Large oysters not opened ; a 
few minutes before they are wanted, put them on 
a gridiron over a moderate fire. When done they 
will open. Do not lose the liquor that is in the 
shell with the oysters. Serve them hot upon a 
napkin. 

An Oyster Pie, with Sweetbreads. — Blanch 
them, and take off the beards; separate them from 
the liquor, blanch some throat sweetbreads, and 
when cold, cut them in slices, then lay them and 
the oysters in layers in your dish, and season with 
salt, pepper, and a few grains of mace and nut- 
meg; add some thick sauce, a little cream, and the 
oyster liquor, and some good veal stock; bake in a 
slow oven. 

Stewed Oysters. — The oysters should be 
bearded and rinsed in their own liquor, which 
should then be strained and thickened with flour 
and butter and placed with the oysters in a stew- 



18 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

pan; add mace, lemon peel cut into shreds, and 
some white pepper whole; these ingredients had 
better be confined iu a piece of muslin. Tlie stew 
must simmer only — if it is suffered to boil, the 
oysters will become hard; serve with sippets of 
bread. This may be varied by adding a ^luss of 
wine to the liquor, before the oysters are put in and 
warmed. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Beard the oysters, wash 
in tlieir own liquor, steep bread crumbs in the lat- 
ter, put them with the oysters into scallop shells, 
with a bit of butter, and seasoning of salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg; make a paste with bread 
crumbs and butter; cover, and roast them before 
the fire, or in an oven. 

Oyster Fritters. — Beard, dip them into an 
omelet, sprinkle well with crumbs of bread, and 
fry them brown. 

To Bake Pike. — Clean and empty the fish 
thoroughly, stuff it with oyster forcemeat, sprinkle 
over it a little salt, and dredge a little flour, stick 
small pieces of butter over it, and bake in a steady 
oven forty to fifty minutes; this must be regulated 
by the size of the fish. To the sauce which will be 
found in the dish when the pike is done, a little 
melted butter with a spoonful of essence of an- 
chovies may be added, and a small quantity of 
grated lemon peel or lemon pickle. 

To Boil Pike.— Having cleaned well, lay it 
upon a drainer and put it in the fisli kettle, let it 
have plenty of water, into which you may throw a 
handful of salt and a glassful of vinegar; when it 
boils, remove the scunj as fast as it rises; it will 
take three quarters of an hour dressing, if a tolern- 
ble size; if very large, an hour; if small, half an 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 19 

hour; serve with melted butter and lemon sliced 
or whole. 

To Broil Shad. — Clean, wash, and split the 
shad, wipe it dry and sprinkle it wi'.h pepper and 
salt; broil it like mackerel. 

To Fry Shad. — Clean the fish, cut off the head, 
and split it down the back; save the roe and eggs 
when taking out the entrails. Cut the fish in 
pieces about three inches wide, rinse each in cold 
water, and dry on a cloth; use wheat flour to rub 
each piece. Have ready hot salted lard and 
lav in the fish, inside down, and fry till of a fine 
brown, then turn and fry the other side. Fry the 
roe and eggs with the fish. 

To Bake a Shad, Rock-Fish, or Bass. — Clean 
the fish carefully, sprinkle it lightly with salt and 
let it lie a few minutes; then wash it, season it 
slightly with cayenne pepper and salt, and fry it 
gently a light brown. Prepare a seasoning of bread 
crumbs, pounded mace and cloves, ma jorum, 
parsley, cayenne peppei", and salt; strew it ever and 
m the fish; let it stand an hour. Put it in a deep 
dish, and set it iu the oven to bake; to a large fish, 
ut in the dish half pint of water, one pint of wine, 
ort and Madeira mixed, half teacupful of musli- 
rooms or tomato catsup; to a small one allow in 
proportion the same ingredients; baste frequently, 
and garnish with sliced lemon. 

Crabs — To Dress Crabs. — Scoop the meat 
from the shell mix the meat into a paste with a 
little vinegar, bread crumbs, grated nutmeg, and a 
little butter, or sweet oil; return it into the shell, 
and serve. To seive this hot. it should be heated 
before the fire, and served up witii dry toast cut 
into large squares or dico. 



I' 



20 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Baked Crabs. — Remove the meat from the 
shell, mix it with bread crumbs — about one-fourth 
will be sufficient; add white pepper, salt, a little 
cayenne, grated nutmeg, and half a dozen small 
lumps of butter, each about the size of a nut; this 
last ingredient should be added to the fish after it 
had been returned to the shell. Squeeze lemon 
juice over it; lay a thick coat of bread crumbs over 
all, and bake. 

Eels Bread-Crumbed. — Cut your fish into two- 
inch pieces, dry and flour them, and proceed as for 
other fried fish, dishing them on a napkin with 
fried parsley. 

Fried Eels. — Cut into pieces same length as 
above, cleaned nicely and well- dried; let them be 
coated with yolk of egg, powdered with bread- 
crumbs; fry them brown; serve with parsley and 
butter, and garnish with handsome sprigs of 
parsley. 

Boiled Eels. — Choose the smallest, simmer in a 
small quantity of water, into which a quantity of 
parsley has been put. Garnish and serve with 
same sauce as the last. 

Eels Stewed.— To stew eels, they should be 
cut in pieces about three inches long, and fried 
until they are about half cooked; they will be then 
brown; let them get cold, take some good beef 
gravy, and an onion, parsley, plenty of white pep- 
per, a little salt, some sage chopped very fine, 
enough only to add to the flavor, and a little mace, 
place the eels in this gravy, and stew until they 
are tender; two anchovies may be finely chopped 
and added, with two teaspoonfuls of mustard, 
already made, some walnut catsup, and a glass 
of red wine; serve with sippets of toasted bread. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 21 

Or, after being stewed until tender, a glass of port 
wine may be added, half a lemon squeezed into it; 
strain, and tiiicken with batter and flour. 

Halibut Stewed.— Put in astewpan half a pint 
of fish broth, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and one 
of mushroom catsup; add an anchovy, two good- 
sized onions cut in quarters, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and one clove of garlic; also add a pint and 
a half of water, and let it stew an hour and a 
quarter; then strain it off clear, and put into it 
the head and shoulders of a fine halibut and stew 
until tender; thicken with butter and flour, and 
Berve. 

Halibut Colloped.— Cut the fish into nice 
cutlets, of about an inch thick, and fry them; 
then put them into a broth made of the bones, four 
onions, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet 
herbs, boiled together for one half an hour. 

To Boil Halibut.— Take a halibut, or what 
you require. Put it into the fish-kettle with the 
back of the fish undermost, cover it with cold 
water, in which a handful of salt, and a bit of 
saltpeter the size of a hazel nut, have been dis- 
solved. When it begins to boil, skim it carefully, 
and then let it just simmer till it is done. ^ Four 
pounds of fish will require nearly thirty minutes, 
to boil it. Drain it, garnish with horse-radish- 
egg sauce or plain melted butter is served with it. 

To Boil Salmon.— This fish cannot be cooked 
too soon after being caught; it should be put into 
a kettle with plenty of cold water and a handful of 
salt; the addition of a small quantity of vinegar 
will add to the firmness of the fish; let it boil 
gently. For four pounds of salmon, fifty minutes 
will be enough; if thick, a few minutes more may 
be allowed. Garnish with parsley. 



22 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Salmon Broiled. — Cut the fish in inch slices 
from the best part, season well witli pepper and 
salt; wrap each slice in white paper, which has 
been buttered witli fresh butter; fasten each end 
by twisting or tying; broil over a very clear fire 
eight minutes. A coke fire, if kept clear and 
bright, is best. Serve with butter, anchovy, or 
tomato sauce. 

Dried Salmon Broiled.— Cut and cook as 
above, save that when it is warmed through it is 
enough. Serve plain, if for breakfast, or with egg 
sauce, if for dinner. 

Salmon Roasted.— Take a large piece of the 
middle of a very fine salmon, dredge well with 
flour, and while roasting baste it with butter. 
Serve, garnished with lemon. 

Stewed Salmon. — Sci-ape the scales clean off, 
cut it in slices, stew tiiem in rich white gravy; 
add, immediately previous to serving, one table- 
spoonful of essence of anchovies, a little parsley, 
chopped very fine, and a pinch of salt. 

Salmon Potted. — Cut a handsome piece from 
the middle of tiie salmon; remove the scales, and 
wipe it with a clean cloth. Rub into it some com- 
mon salt thoroughly. Beat up soine mace, cloves, 
and whole pe])per, and season the salmon witii it; 
place it in a pan with a few bay leaves; cover it 
with butter, and bake it until thoroughly done; 
remove it from the gravy, letting it drain thor- 
oughly, then place it in the pots. Clarify sufficient 
butter to cover all the pots after the salmon has 
been put into them; put it to cool. 

To Pickle Salmon. — Scale, clean, split, and 
divide the salmon into handsome pieces; place 
them iu the bottom of a Btewpun, with just suffi- 



EVEEYDAY COOK BOOK. 23 

ciettt >.4ter to cover them. Put into three quarts 
of ^va^^r one pint of vinegar, a dozen bay leaves, 
half tliac quantity of mace, a handful of salt, and 
a fourth part of an ounce of black pep])er. Wiien 
the salmon is sufficiently boiled reniove it, drain 
it, and place it upon a cloth. Put in the kettle 
another layer of salmon, pour ever it the liquor 
which you have prepared, and keep it until the 
salmon is done. Then remove the fish, place it in 
a deep dish or pan, and cover it with the pickle, 
which, if not sufficiently acid, may receive more 
vinegar and salt, and be boiled forty minutes. 
Let the air be kept from the fish, and, if kept for 
any length of time^ it will be found necessary to 
occasionally drain the liquor from the fish, and 
skin% and boil it. 

Quenelles or Pudding. — Use any safmon you 
may have left, pick it free from all bones and skin, 
put crumbs of a French roll,, or some light 
crums of breiul, in a half-pint of milk, a sprig of 
parsley, a small shallot, or onion, put it all to bnil 
until dried up, stir, it and keep it from burning, 
then put it to get cold; pound the salmon well, 
then add boiled fat, take out the onion and 
parsley, and put about two ounces of butter with 
it; pound all well, then rub it through a wire sieve; 
when done, return it back into the mortar, and 
add, according to the quantity, two yolks of e^gs 
and one wiiole egg, a little essence of anchovies, 
cayenne pepper, salt, and a dust of sugar. Have 
a stewpnn of boiling water ready; take out a piece 
and boil it to see if it is light, or does not drop to 
pieces; have your small or large molds ready, and 
well buttered; six small ones are sufficient for a 
dish; if for a corner put butteied paper over each 
mold. To stew them, have a stewpan large 
enough to hold them, Hue the bottom with paper, 



24 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

and only put sufficient water to be half up the 
mold; mind the cover fits close, and be sure it 
boils, then put tbem in; the small ones will take 
about half an hour; when done drain the grease 
well from them, before dishing; pour the sauce in 
the middle. 

Trout. — Scale, gut, clean, dry, aud flour, then 
fry them in butter until they are rich clear brown; 
fry some green parsley crisp, and make some plain 
melted butter, put in one teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovy, and one glass of white wine; garnish, 
when the trouts are dished, with the crisp parsley 
and lemon cut in slices; the butter may be poured 
over the fish, but it is most advisable to send it in 
a butter tureen. 

Trout Stewed. — First wash and clean the fish, 
wipe it perfectly dry, put into a stewpan two 
ounces of butter, dredge in flour as it melts, and 
add grated nutmeg, a little mace, and a little 
cayenne. Stew well, and when fluid and thor- 
oughly mixed, lay in the fish, which having 
Buffered to slightly brown, cover with a pint of 
veal gravy; throw in a little salt, a small faggot of 
parsley, and a few rings of lemon peel; stew slowly 
forty minutes, then take out the fish, strain the 
gravy clear, and pour it over the fish. 

To Boil Perch. — First wipe or wash off the 
slime, then scrape off the scales, which adhere 
rather tenaciously to this fish; empty and clean 
the insides perfectly, take out the gills, cut off the 
fins, and lay the perch into equal parts of cold and 
of boiling water, salted as for mackerel. From 
eight to ten minutes will boil them unless they are 
very large. Dish them on a napkin, garnish them 
with curled parsley, and serve melted butter with 
them. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 25 

Crab Salad. — Extract the fish from the shell, 
and place in the center of the dish in wliich it is 
to be served, in the form of a pyramid; arrange the 
saUid round tastefully and add salad mixture. 
This dish is not infrequently garnished with the 
smallest claws of the fish. 



MEATS. 

Roasting. — In every case where meat is washed 
before roasting, it should be well dried before it is 
put down to the fire, which must be kept clear, 
banked up to the height it is intended to keep it, 
and kept at that height until the meat is suffici- 
ently cooked. Remember the regulation of 
gradually advancing the meat nearer the fire while 
it is cooking; baste with a little milk and water, 
or salt and water first, but as soon as the fat begins 
to fall from the meat, put down a clean dish, and 
then baste with the dripping as it falls; the meat 
should not be sprinkled with salt until nearly 
cooked, or too much gravy will be produced. 

To Roast Beef. — The primest parts are roasted, 
except the round, which should be boiled; the ribs 
make the finest roasting joint. Where a small 
quantity is required, it is better for the bones to 
be cut out, and the meat rolled; this should be done 
by the butcher. In roasting the ribs, or any piece 
of beef, precautions mentioned respecting placing 
it too near the fire must be observed; and where 
there is much fat, and it is desired to preserve it 
from being cooked before the lean, it may be 
covered with clean white paper skewered over it; 
when it is nearly done the paper should be re- 
moved, a little flour dredged over it, and a rich 



26 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

frothy appearance will be obtained. Tlio joint 
should be served up with potatoes and other vege- 
tables: the dish should be garnished around the 
ed^e with horsc-radisli scrapeil into thin curls. This 
receipt will suffice for ail the other roasting parts 
of beef. 

To Cook the Inside of the Sirloin. — Take 
out the inside of the sirloin in one piece, put it 
into a stewpan, with sufficient good grjivy lo cover 
it; season with mixed spice, pepper, salt, and 
cayenne, and a spoonful of walnut catsup; more 
of the latter may be added, if the quantity made 
should require it to flavor; serve with pickled 
gherkins cut small. 

Fillet op Beef Roasted. — The fillet, which 
comes from the insitle of the sirloin, may be larded 
or roasted plain; for high dinners it is larded. 
Baste with fresh butter. It must be a large fillet 
which takes longer than an hour and twenty 
minutes; serve with toniatcS sauce, and garnish with 
horse-radish, n I dess served with currant jelly, then 
serve as with venison or liare. 

Rump Steak Stewed. — Cut a steak about an 
inch thick, with a good bit of fat, fry it over a 
brisk fire, place it in a stewpsin with the gravy, a 
little good stock, a little port wine, and some 
chopped mushrooms, and stew gently; when ten- 
der, put into the stewpan some good brown sauce; 
shake it gently about; then dish it, and put scraped 
or grated horse-radish on the top; if for oysters or 
mushrooms, season plentifully with salt, cayenne 
pepper, and sugar. 

Rump Steak Broiled.— Cut your steak not so 
thick as for the former; have ready a good, clear 
fire, and get your gridiron quite hot : then put on 
the steak at full length, fre(^ueutly stirring it with 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 27 

yc7-T steak tongs ; a few mmutes, according to 
taste, will do it: place it on yuur disli, rub a g(»od 
slice of butter all over it, and now pepper and 
saU it. Serve with a horcse-radisli on the top of it, 
and, frequently, sauces. 

Beef Steaks Hroiled.— Be particular that the 
fire IS clear; wheti the meat is browned, turn it; 
do not be afraid of doing this often, as this i& the 
best plan to preserve the gravy. When they are 
done, rub them over with a piece of fresh butter, 
pepper, and salt them, sprinkle the shallot, or 
onion cut very small, and send them to table with 
oyster s;iuce, a dish of uicely-cooked greens, and 
well-boiled potatoes. 

Beef Kidneys— Stewed.— Procure a couple of 
very fine beef kidneys, cut them in slices, and lay 
them in a stewpan;*put in two ounces of butter, 
and four large onions cut into very thin slices; add 
to them a sufficiency of pepper and salt to season 
well. Stew them about an hour; add a cupful of 
rich gravv to that extracted from the kidney. Stew 
five minutes, strain it, and thicken the gravy 
with flour and butter, give it a boil up. Serve with 
the gravy in the dish. 

Beef Heart Roasted.— Wash thoroughly stuff 
with forcemeat, send it to table as hot as it is pos- 
sible >vith currant jelly sauce; it will take about 
forty minutes' roasting. 

Brisket of Beef Stewed.— Take any quantity 
of brisket of beef required, say eight or ten pounds, 
which cover with water, and stew till tender; bone 
the beef, and skim off the fat, strain the gravy, 
add a glass of port wine, and flavor with spice tied 
in a bag. Have boiled vegetables ready; cut them 
into squares, and garnish the beef from the gravy 
round it, and serve. 



28 EVHERYDAY COOK. BOOK. 

Rump of Beef. — Cut tlie beef in pieces, half- 
boil them, put them into some beef broth or thin 
stock, unseasoned, and boil; when half done, stir 
some butter and flour moistened with broth in a 
stewpan over the fire until brown; put the beef 
into tlie pan with a dozen onions previously par- 
boiled, a glass of sherry, a bay leaf, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, and salt; stew till the 
beef and onions are quite done, then skim clean, 
cut an anchovy small, and put it with capers into the 
sauce; place the beef in the center of the dish, and 
garnish with the onions around it. 

Beef and Sauer Kraut. — Put about eight 
pounds of beef into cold water. When it comes to 
a boil, let it boil very fast for eight or ten minutes, 
not longer. Take it in a stewpan, covering it 
completely over with sauer kraut. Pour in a pint 
of thin gravy. Stew four hours, and serve with 
the gravy in a tureen or deep dish. 

A Beef Stew. — Take two or three pounds of 
the rump of beef, cut away all the fat and skin, 
and cut it into pieces about two or three inches 
square, put it into a stewpan, and pour on to it a 
quart of broth; then let it boil, and sprinkle in a 
little salt and pepper to taste; when it has boiled 
very gently, or simmered two hours, shred finely a 
large lemon, adding it to the gravy; add at pleas- 
ure two glasses of Madeira, or one of sherry or port, 
and serve. 

Beef Hashed. — Take the bones of the joint to 
be hashed; and break them small, then stew them 
in a very little water, with a bunch of sweet herbs 
and a few onions; roll a lump of butter in flour, 
brown it in a stewpan, pour the gravy to it, and. 
add the meat to be hashed; two small onions in 
thin slices, a carrot also, and a little parsley shred 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 29 

finely; stew gently until the meat is hot through, 
and serve. 

Bubble and Squeak. — Sprinkle some slices of 
cold boiled beef with pepper, fry them with a bit 
of butter to a light brown; boil a cabbage, squeeze 
it quite dry, and chop it small, then take the beef 
out of the frying-pan and lay the cabbage in it, 
sprinkling a little salt and pepper over it; keep the 
pan moving over the fire for a few minutes; lay the 
cabbage in the middle of the dish, and the beef 
around it. 

Beef Sausages. — To three pounds of beef, very 
lean, put one pound and a half of suet, and chop 
very finely; season with sage in powder, allspice, 
pepper, and salt; have skins thoroughly cleaned and 
force the meat into them. 

Tkipe. — Take two pounds of fresh tripe, cleaned 
and dressed by the tripe-dresser, cut away the 
coarsest fat, and boil it for twenty minutes to half 
an hour, in equal parts of milk and water. Boil 
in the same water which boils the tripe four large 
onions; the onions should be put on the fire at least 
half an hour before the tripe is put in the stew pan, 
and then made into a rich onion sauce, which serve 
with the tripe. Another method of dressing tripe 
is by cutting it into slices; three eggs are beaten up 
with minced parsley, sweet herbs, onions, chopped 
exceedingly fine, and mushrooms. The tripe is 
dipped into this mixture, and fried in boiling lard. 

Tripe can be stewed in gravy, in which put 
parsley, onion?, and mushrooms, or in lieu of the 
latter, mushroom ketchup. Thicken the gravy 
with flour and butter. When the tripe is tender, 
ii will be done. A lemon may be sent to table 
with it. 



30 evehyday cook book. 

Veal, the Fillet.— The fillet derives much of 
its pleasjini flavor from being stuffed. Veal, in 
itself, being nearly tasteless, the stuffing should be 
placed in the hollow from whence the bone is 
extracted, and the joint should be roasted a beauti- 
fnl brown; it should be cooked gradually, as the 
meat, being solid, will require to be thoroughly 
done through without burning the outside; like 
pork, it is sufficiently indigestible, without being 
sent to table and eaten half cooked; a dish of boiled 
hacon or ham should acconipany it to table, with 
the addition of a lemon. In roasting veal care 
must be taken that it is not at first placed too near 
the fire; the fat of a loin, one of the most delicate 
joints of veal, should be covered with greased 
paper; a fillet, also, should have on the caul until 
nearly done. The shoulder should be thoroughly 
boiled; when nearly done, dredge with flour, and. 
produce a fine broth. 

Fillet of Veal Boiled. — Bind it around with 
tape, put it in a floured cloth, and in cold water; 
boil very gently two houis and a half, or, if sim- 
mered, which is perhaps the better way, four 
hours will be necessary. It may be sent to table 
in bechemel, or with oyster sauce. 

Neck of Veal. — May be boiled or roasted — the 
latter, only, if it be the best end — and sent to the 
table garnished nicely with vegetables; it may also 
be broiled in chops, but it is best in a pie; it is 
sometimes larded an<l stewed as follows: Lard it 
with square pieces of ham or bacon, which have 
been previously rubbed in a preparation of shalots, 
spices, pepper, and salt; place it in the srewpan 
with about three pints of white stock, adding a 
bay or laurel leaf, and a couple of onions; also add 
» dessertspoonful of brandy or whisky, and stew 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 31 

till tender, then dish the meat, strain the gravy, 
pour it over tiie joint, and serve. 

Veal Cutlets. — The cutlets should be cut as 
handsomely as possible, and about three-quarters 
of an inch in thickness; before cooking, tliey 
should be well beaten with the blade of a chopper, 
if a pi'oper beater be not at hand; then fry them a 
li^ht brown, and send them up to table garnished 
with parsley, and rolls of thin-sliced, nicely fried 
bacon; they are with advantage coated, previous to 
cooking, with the yolk of an tgg, and dredged with 
bread crumbs. 

Galantine Veal.-— Take a large breast of veal; 
take off the shin bone, then take out the gristle 
called tendons, and all the rib bones; flatten it 
well, have ready some good forcemeat or pausage 
meat, and spread it all over with vour forcemeat; 
then make a line of green gherkins, a line of red 
capsicums, a line of fat ham or bacon, some hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, and a line of truffles; if you 
have any boiled calves* feet left from jelly stock, 
sprinkle it in with pieces of breast of fowl; sprinkle 
pepper and salt all over it, then roll it np tightly, 
and likewise do so in a cloth; tie it up tight; stew 
it for two hours or more; take it up, press it flat, 
and let it lie until quite cold; then takeoff the 
cloth. It will make an excellent cold dish. 

Emincees. — Are made from dressed beef cut 
into very small dice; put fried or toasted bread 
sippets around the dish; a mashed potato or rice 
rim is the neatest way for this dish to be sent to 
table. 

Breast of Veal Boiled. — Put it into plenty of 
cold wut^r, and let it come to a boil, clearing the 
Bcum as often as it rises; when it boils add a bunch 
of parsley, a few blades of mace, a small bunch of 



32 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

sweet herbs, twenty or thirty white peppers, and 
let it stew an hour and a quarter, then send to 
table with a nice piece of bacon, and parsley and 
butter. 

Breast of Veal Ragout. — Divide the breast 
lengthways in two, cutting each piece into portions 
of a reasonable size; then put them into a pan 
with boiling butter, and fry a clear brown; lay the 
pieces in a stew pan with sufficient, veal broth to 
cover them, throw in a small fagot of sweet herbs 
and parsley, two onions, one large blade of mace, 
half a dessertspoonful of allspice, and the peel of 
a lemon; season with pepper and salt, cover close 
and stew an hour and a half, or longer if the meat 
requires it; then take it off and strain the gravy 
from the fat, keeping the vessel closely covered; in 
a small stew-pan put a little butter and flour, pour 
in the strained gravy gradually, let it come to a 
boil, remove any scum that may rise, pour in a 
glass of sherry or Madeira, two tablespoonfuls 
mushroom ketchup, and squeeze in the juice of half 
a lemon; boil it up, place the veal in a deep, hot 
dish, pour the gravy over it and serve. 

Shoulder of Veal. — Remove the knuckle and 
roast what remains, as the fillet; it may or may 
not be stuffed; if not stuffed, serve with oyster or 
mushroom sauce; if stuffed, with melted butter. 

Shoulder of Veal Boited and SxEWED.-Bone 
the shoulder and leave in the orifice a veal force- 
meat; roll and bind the shoulder; roast it an hour, 
then put it into a stewpan with good white or 
brown gravy, and stew four or five hours, regulat- 
ing the time to the size of the joint; when it is 
done, strain the gravy to clear it of fat, and serve 
with forcemeat balls. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 33 

Lous' OF Yeal. — Divide the loin, roast the 
kidney, and place under the fat a toast, and serve 
swimming in melted butter. The chump end 
must be stuffed with the same stuffing as the fillet, 
and served with the same sauce; those who object 
to putting the stuffing in the joint may send it to 
table with balls of stuffing in the dish. 

Loin of Veal Boiled. — Take a loin about eight 
pounds, skewer down the flap without disturbing 
the kidney, put the loin into a kettle with enough 
cold water to cover it, and let it come gradually to a 
boil (it cannot boil too slowly); continue for two 
hours and a quarter, remove the scum as it rises, 
send it to table in bechemel, or with parsley and 
melted butter. 

Calf's Feet. — They should be very clean; boil 
them three hours, or until they are tender, then 
serve them with parsley and butter. 

Calf's Heart. — Stuffed and roasted precisely 
as beef heart. 

Calf's Kidkey. — May be dressed as mutton or 
beef kidney, or mince it with some of the fat, add 
cayenne, white pepper, and salt, cover it with 
bread crumbs and with yolk of egg, make it up 
into balls, and fry in boiling fresh butter, drain 
them upon a sieve, and serve them upon fried 
parsley. 

Calf's Head for Grill. — When the head is 
boiled sufficiently, draw out all the bones, and put 
it to cool, and then cut it (if not required whole) 
into square long pieces; egg and bread-crumb them 
as you would cutlets, only add some chopped sweet 
herbs, as well as parsley; put it in your oven to 
brown. 



U EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Calf's Head Baked.— Butter the head, and 
powder it with a seasoning composed of very fine 
bread crumbs, a few sweet herbs and sage, chopped 
very fine, cayenne, white pepper and salt. Divide 
tlic brains into several pieces, not too small, 
sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and lay them in 
the dish with the head. Stick a quantity of small 
pieces of butter over the head and in the eyes, 
throw crumbs over all, pour in three parts of the 
dish full of water, and bake in a fast oven two 
hours. 

Calf's Brains. — Wash them, remove the skin, 
and scald them. Dry them well, fry them in but- 
ter, and serve with mushroom sauce. Or, when 
cleaned and scalded, chop them finely, simmer 
them with mushrooms, onions, parsley, sage, and 
white sauce. Season highly, and serve with fried 
parsley and fried sippets. 

Calf's LiVER.—Lay the liver in vinegar for 
twelve hours, it will render it firm; then dip it in 
cold spring water and wipe it dry, cut it in even 
slices, sprinkle sweet herbs, crumbled finely, over 
it, and add pepper and salt; dredge with flour, 
and fry in boiling lard or butter — the last is pre- 
ferable; remove the liver when fried a nice brown, 
pour away a portion of the fat, and pour in a cup- 
ful of water with a lump of butter well rolled in 
flour, in which a spoonful of vinegar and cayenne 
or lemon juice has been stirred: boil it up, keeping 
it stirred all the while, and serve the liver up in 
it; thin slices of hot fried bacon should be sent to 
table with it. 

Veal, Curried. — Cut the veal to be curried in 
small pieces — any part of veal, cooked or uncooked, 
that is palatable, will serve. Put in a stewpan six 
ounces of fresh butter, add to it half a pint of 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 35 

good white stock and one tablespoonful of curry 
powder, put to this the veal to be curried, cover 
down close, simmer for two hours, squeeze a quar- 
ter of a lemon into it, and serve with a dish of 
boiled rice. 

Haunch of Mutton. — The haunch should be 
hung as long as possible without being tainted; 
it should be washed with vinegar every day while 
hanging, and dried thoroughly after each washing; 
if the weather be muggy, rubbing with sugar will 
prevent its turning sour; if warm weather, pepper 
and ground ginger rubbed over it will keep off the 
flies. When ready for roasting, paper the fat, and 
commence some distance from the fire; baste with 
milk and water first, and then, when the fat be- 
gins dripping, change the dish, and baste with its 
own dripping; half an hour previous to its being 
done, remove the paper from the fat, place it 
closer to the fire, baste well, and serve with currant 
jelly. 

Saddle op Mutton. — This joint, like the 
haunch, gains much of its flavor from hanging for 
some time; the skin should be taken off, but 
skewered on again until rather more than a quar- 
ter of an hour of its being done, then let it be 
taken off, dredge the saddle with flour, and baste 
well. The kidneys may be removed or remain, at 
pleasure, but the fat which is found within the 
saddle should be taken away previous to cooking. 

Leg of Mutton Roasted. — Like the haunch 
and saddle, should be hung before cooking, slowly 
roasted, and served with onion sauce or currant 
jelly. 

Leo op Mutton Boiled. — Should be first 
Boaked for an hour and a half in salt and water, 
care being taken that the water be not too salt, 



36 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

then wiped and boiled in a floured cloth; the time 
necessary for boiling will depend upon the weight; 
two hours or two hours and a half should be about 
the time; it should be served with mashed turnips, 
potatoes, greens and caper sauce, or brown cucum- 
ter, or oyster sauce. 

Mutton" Kidneys Broiled. — Skin and split, 
without parting asunder; skewer them through 
the outer edge and keep them flat; lay the opened 
sides first to the fire, which should be clear and 
brisk; in four minutes turn them, sprinkle with 
salt and cayenne, and when done, which will be 
in three minutes afterward, take them from the 
fire, put a piece of butter inside them, squeeze 
some lemon juice over them, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb. — This is the favorite, 
and, indeed, the best joint. Do not put it too 
near the fire at first, and when it gets heated, baste 
it well; the fire should be quick, clear, but not 
fierce. The usual weight of a fore-quarter is be- 
tween nine and eleven pounds, which will take two 
hours cooking; when it is done, separate the 
shoulder from the ribs, but before it is quite taken 
off, lay under a large lump of butter, squeeze a 
lemon, and season with pepper and salt; let it re- 
main long enough to melt the butter, then remove 
the shoulder, and lay it on another dish. 

Steaks from a Loin" of Mutton" are done in 
the same way, only trimming some of the fat off; 
cut thick, and stew instead of frying them. 

Mutton Steaks. — The steaks are cut from the 
thick or fillet end of a leg of mutton, and dressed 
as rump-steaks. 

Mutton" Chops Broiled. — Cut them from the 
best end of the loin, trim them nicely, removing 



EVEKYDAY COOK BOOK. 37 

fat or skin, leaving only enough of the former to 
make them palatable; let the fire be very clear 
before placing tlie chops on the gridiron, turn 
them frequently, taking care that the fork is not 
put into the lean part of the chop; season them 
with pepper and salt, spread fresh butter over each 
chop when nearly done, and send them to table on 
very hot plates. 

Fillet of Muttoj^". — Choose a very large leg, 
cut from four to five inches in thickness from the 
large end, take out the bone, and in its place put 
a highly savored forcemeat, flour, and roast it for 
two hours; it may be sent to table with melted 
butter poured over it, or a rich brown gravy and 
red currant jelly. 

Haricot Mutton". — In this dish remove the 
bones, leave the fat on, and cut each cutlet thick; 
fry them over a quick fire to brown; twelve cutlets 
will make this dish; put them into a proper sized 
stewpan with a little good second stock, pepper 
and salt, a little piece of sugar, cover it over and 
stew gently over a slow fire; when tender, strain 
off sufficient stock for the sauce. 

Hash Mutton. — Cut the cold mutton into 
slices as uniform in size as possible, flour them, 
pepper and salt them, put them into a stewpan 
with some gravy made of an onion stewed, with 
whole pepper and toasted bread, in a pint of water, 
to which a little walnut catsup has been added. 
This gravy should be stewed two hours before 
using. Do not let the hash boil; when it is done, 
add a little thickening of butter, flour, and water, 
if required, and serve up with sippets of toasted 
bread. 

Irish Stew. — Cut a neck of mutton as for the 
haricot; blanch the chops in water, then put them 



38 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

into another stewpan with four onions cut in 
slices, put to it a little of 3'our second stock, and 
let it boil a quarter of an hour; have ready some 
potatoes pared, put them into the stewpan with 
the mutton, with salt and pepper. As some like 
the potatoes whole and some mashed, as to thicken 
the stew, you must boil them accordingly; dish the 
meat around, and the vegetables in the middle. 

To Make a Scotch Haggis. — Take the stomach 
of a sheep. The washing and cleaning is of more 
consequence than all, as it will be a bad color and 
a bad taste if not well cleaned; when clean, turn 
it inside out, then let it lie for a day or two in salt 
and water. Blanch the liver, lights, and heart of 
the sheep, lay them in cold water, chop all very 
fine — the liver you had better grate; chop very 
finely a pound of the suet, and dry in the oven a 
pound of oatmeal; mix all this well together, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley 
and onion; then sew up the bag; before you finish 
sewing it, add a few spoonfuls of good white stock; 
put it in a stewpan with a drainer; boil it in 
water, keeping it well covered all the time, and 
prick it all over with a small larding pin, to keep 
it from bursting; it will take several hours to boil; 
be careful in taking it up, and let your dish be 
large enough. 

Shoulder of Mutton.— Must be well roasted, 
and sent to table with the skin a nice brown, and 
serve with onion sauce. 

Loin of Mutton Stewed. — Remove the skin, 
bone it, roll it, then put it in a stewpan with a 
pint and a half of water, two dessertspoonfuls of 
pyroligneous acid, a piece of butter, sweet herbs, 
ftud an ouipn or two^ when it has §tQWQd nearly 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. Z9 

four hours, strain the gravy, add two spoonfuls of 
red wine, hot ud. and serve with jelly. 

Breast of Mutton'. — May be stewed in gravy 
until tender; bone it, score it, season well with 
cayenne, black pepper, and salt; boil it, and while 
cooking, skim the fat from the gravy in which it 
has been stewed, slice a few gherkins, and add 
with a dessertspoonful of mushroom catsup; boil 
it, and pour over the mutton when dished. 

To Stew a Brisket of Lamb. — Cut it into 
pieces, pepper and salt well, and stew in sufficient 
gravy to cover the meat until tender, then thicken 
the sauce, and pour in a glass of sherry; serve on a 
dish of stewed, mushrooms. 

Sweetbreads. — Should be soaked in water, put 
for eight or ten minutes in boiling water, and then 
into clear cold spring water, to blanch. They may 
be cut in slices, or in dice, and put into fricassees 
of meat or ragouts, or they may be served as a 
separate dish. 

Sheep or Lamb's Trotters. — Get a dozen or 
two of trotters, stew them for several hours, until 
all the bones will come from them; save the liquor; 
do not break tne skin, stuff them with good 
qiienells or forcemeat; return them again into the 
stock, boil them about fifteen minutes, and glaze 
theni; sauce is good with them, or you may fry 
them with butter. 

To Roast a Leg of Lamb. — The rules laid 
down for roast mutton must be scrupulously ob- 
served with respect to lamb; let it roast gradually, 
and commence a distance from the fire; a leg of 
five pounds will take an hour and a quarter, one of 
six pounds will take an hour an4 a half, 



40 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

To Boil a Leg of Lamb. — Put in sufficient 
clear cold soft water to cover it, let it remain half 
an hour; a tablespoonful of vinegar or half a hand- 
ful of salt maybe thrown in; put it into a thin 
white cloth which has been floured, and boil it; a 
good-sized bundle of sweet herbs may be thrown 
into the saucepan; if six pounds, it will be done in 
an hour and a half; serve with spinach or French 
beans; if sent to table cold, tastefully lay handsome 
sprigs of parsley about it; it may, while hot, be 
garnished with parsley, with thin slices of lemon 
laid round the dish. 

To Roast a SucKiiq-a Pig. — A sucking pig 
should be dressed as soon after being killed as 
practicable. When scalded and prepared for cook- 
ing, lay in the belly a stuffing of bread, sage and 
onions, pepper and salt, with a piece of butter, 
then sew it up, rub the skin of the pig with butter, 
skewer the legs back, that, roasting, the inside as 
well as outside of the pig may be thoroughly 
browned. It must be put to a quick fire, but at 
such a distance as to roast gradually, and a coating 
of flour should be dredged over it, that it may not 
blister, or it should not be left a minute; if floured, 
when the pig is done scrape the flour ofif with a 
wooden or very blunt knife, and rub it with a but- 
tered cloth; cut off the head, and dividing it, take 
out the brains, mix them with a little gravy or 
bread sauce; divide the pig in half from the neck 
to tail, and lay each inside flap upon the dish, so 
that the two edges of the back touch; place each 
half of the head with the outer side uppermost at 
each end of the dish, and an ear on each side; the 
gravy should be poured in the dish hot, and the 
whole served as hot as possible. 

A Leg of Pork Roasted. — Score the skin with 
a sharp penknife; a little fresh butter is sometimes 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. €l 

rubbed over the skin to make it brown and crisp 
without blistering. Chop some sage that has been 
scalded very fine, add to it an onion parboiled, mix 
some bread crumbs and a small portion of finely 
chopped apple; mix all together, season with pepper 
and salt, make an incision by separating the skin 
from the fat in the under and fillet end of the leg, 
and place the stuffing there; serve up with apple 
sauce. The time of roasting will depend upon the 
size of the leg. 

A Leg of Pork Boiled. — After having been 
salted it should be washed in clean cold water, and 
scraped thoroughly white and clean preparatory to 
cooking; it should then be put into a floured cloth, 
and into cold water on the fire; when the rind is 
quite tender the pork will be done. Let the water 
be well skimmed, and serve with such vegetables 
as are in season. Should the joint be large, allow 
a quarter of an hour to each pound, with an ad- 
ditional twenty minutes from the time it boils. 

Spare Rib. — A spare rib will take two hours 
and a half to roast, unless very large, and then 
three hours will be required to cook it thoroughly; 
while roasting, baste with butter and dredge with 
flour, pound some sage, and powder the spare rib 
with it about twenty minuter before it is done; a 
pinch of salt may be added. 

Boiled Pork — of All Kinds. — The leg you 
must skin the same as ham, and dish it back part 
upward and glaze it; place a ruffle at the knuckle; 
use for sauce, sauer kraut, or stewed red cabbage; 
peas pudding to all pork when boiled. 

Pig's Cheek — A Half 0:n^e. — Eoil and trim in 
the shape of ham, and if very fat carve it as a 
cockle-shell; glaze it well, or put bread crumbs and 
brown them; sauce as before. 



42 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Poke Chops or Steaks. — Cut from the best 
end of the loin, or from tlie chnmy or leg if steaks; 
remove the fat and skin an»l turn them frequently 
and quickly while broiling; sprinkle them with salt 
when nearly done, and rub with a little fresh but- 
ter previous to serving; if for a side-dish garnish 
with crisped parsley. 

Pig's Head Baked. — Let it be divided, and 
thoroughly cleaneil; take out the brains, trim the 
snout and ears, bake it an hour and a half, wash 
the brains thoroughly, blanch them, beat them 
np with an egg, popper and salt, some finely 
chopped or pounded sage, and a small piece of 
butter; fry them, or brown them, before the fire; 
serve with the head. 

Pig's Head Boiled. — This is the more profitable 
dish, thongh not so pleasant to the palate; it 
should first be salted, which is usually done by the 
pork butcher; it should be boiled gently au hour 
and a quarter; serve with vegetables. 

To Bake a Ham. — Put the ham in soak 
previous to dressing it; if an old one, two hours 
will be required, but if not very old, an hour will 
suffice. Wipe it very dry, and cover it with a 
paste about an inch in thickness. The edges being 
first moistened, must be drawn together, and made 
to adhere, or the gravy will escape. Bake it in a 
regular well-heated oven; it will take from three to 
six hours, according to its weight; when done, 
remove the paste and then the skin. Tiiis must 
be done when the ham is hot. If well baked, and 
not too salt, it will prove of finer flavor than if 
boiled. 

Ham Rashers, or Slices. — May be toasted, 
broiled, or fried, and served with spinach and 
poached eggs, or boiled green peas. Stewed with 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 43 

green peas, or cut in tliin slices, divided in four 
pieces, each piece rolled and fastened with a 
skewer, roasted in a Dutch oven, and served willi 
peas. They should, 'v.\ all cases, be cut in even 
thickness, and cooked without injuring the color. 
Bacon may be dressed in tlie same variety. 

To Broil Bacon. — Make up a sheet of paper in 
the drippingpan, cut your bacon into tliin slices, 
cut ojS the rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it 
over the gridiron, set it over a slow fire, and it will 
broil clearly. 

Bacon and Cabbage. — Boil some fine streaked 
part of bacon with a little stock, and the ends of 
eight or ten sausages; boil in the same stock some 
white cabbages for two hmws, adding salt and 
spice, and serve very hot; place your sausages and 
cabbage around the dish, and the bacon in the 
middle. 

Bacon and Eggs. — Take a quarter of a pound 
of streaked bacon, cut it into thin slices, and put 
them into a stewpan over a slow fire, taking care 
to turn them frequently; then pour the melted fat 
of the bacon into a dish, break over it seven or 
eight eggs, add two spoonfuls of gruvy, and a little 
salt and pepper, and stew the whole over a slow 
fire, pass a salamander over it, and serve. 

Bacon Toast. — Cut some thin slices of bread, 
about two or three inches long, and some streaked 
bacon in small pieces, dip tliem into a raw egg 
beaten up with shred parsley, green onions, shallots, 
and pepper; fry over a slow fire, and serve with 
clear sauce and a little vinegar. 

Turkey Eoast; — It is stuffed with either saus- 
age meat or fillet of veal stuffing. While roasting, 
a piece of paper should be placed over the part 



44 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

stuffed, as, being bulky, it will catch the fire and 
become scorched, but keep the heat well to the 
breast, in order that it may be as well done as the 
rest of the bird. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve 
with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a tureen. 
To the sausage meat, if used, add a few bread 
crumbs and a beaten eg^. Turkey is sometimes 
stuffed with truffles; they are prepared thus: they 
must be peeled, and chopped, and pounded in a 
mortar, in quantities of a pound and a half; rasp 
the same weight of the fat of bacon, and mix it 
with the truffles; stuff the turkey with it; this 
stuffing is usually placed in the turkey two days 
previous to cooking, it is supposed to impart a 
flavor to the flesh of the fowl. Cut thin slices of 
fat bacon, and place over the breast of the turkey. 
Secure it with half a sheet of clean white paper, 
and roast. Two hours will roast it. 

TuKKEY Boiled. — A hen bird is considered the 
best. It may be stuft'ed with truffles, or sausage 
meat. Boil it in a clean floured cloth; throw some 
salt into the water in which it is boiled. Cover 
cloth, and simmer for two hours, removing the 
scum frequently. Serve with white sauce, or 
parsley and butter. 

Turkey Hashed. — Out up the remains of a 
roasted turkey, put it into a stewpan with half a 
gill of sherry, shallots, truffles, mushroons, chopped 
parsley, salt, pepper, and a little stock; boil half an 
hour, and reduce to a thick sauce. AVhen ready, 
add a pound of anchovies, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Skim the sauce free from fat, and serve all together. 

Turkey Legs Broiled. — B?aise some undress- 
ed legs of turkey until tender, dip them in melted 
butter, or clear salad oil, broil them a fine brown 
color, and serve with sauce. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 45 

To Roast a Goose. — There are many modes of 
stuffing; for one mode, take two moderate sized 
onions, and boil them rapidly ten minutes, then 
chop them finely, mince sage to the quantity of 
half the onion, add of powdered bread twice^ as 
much as of onion, pepper and salt it, introducing 
a little cayenne, and then bind it with the beaten 
yolk of an egg. Potatoes mashed are sometimes 
introduced, but not frequently, into the body; 
they should be mashed with floury potatoes mixed 
with a little fresh butter and cream, rather highly 
seasoned with cayenne and salt. Both ends of the 
goose should be secured when trussed, that the 
seasoning may not escape. It should be roasted 
before a quick fire, and kept constantly basted ; it 
will take from an hour and a half to an hour and 
three-quarters; serve with a rich brown gravy and 
apple sauce. Previous to sending to table, a 
flavoring may be made as follows: To a dessert- 
spoonful of made mustard, add a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne pepper, abont the same quan- 
tity of salt, mix it evenly with a glass of port wine, 
and two glasses of rich gravy, make it hot, cut a 
slit in the apron of the goose, and pour it through 
just previously to serving. 

To Roast Ducks. — Clean the insides thoroughly 
■with a little warm water, and stuff them with the 
same stuffing as for geese, using a little more bread 
for the sake of mildness; roast them before a brisk 
fire, but not too close, and baste very frequently; 
they will take from half an hour to an hour, 
according to the age and size; when the breast 
plumps, they will be just done; serve them with a 
rich brown gravy. 

To Boil Ducks.— Salt them for about thirty 
hours previous to cooking; flour a clean white 



46 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

cloth and boil them in it, a moderate sized duck 
will sake about an hour's boiling; make a rich 
onion sauce with milk, and seud it to table with 
the duck. When the duck is boiled fresh it may 
be stuffed as for roasting, and served with the 
same description of gravy. 

Stewed Duck. — The ducks should be cut into 
joints, and laid in a stewpan with a pint of good 
gravy, let it come to a boil, and, as the scum rises, 
remove it; season with salt and cayenne, and let 
them stew gently three-quarters of an hour, mixing 
smoothly two teaspoonf uls of fine ground rice, with 
a glass of port, which stir into the gravy, and let 
it have seven or eight minutes to amalgamate with 
it, then dish and send to table very hot. 

Wild Ducks, or Teal. — You must be very par- 
ticular in not roasting these birds too much; a 
duck about fifteen minutes, with a good fire; baste 
them very frequently; teal will, of course, take less 
time, but your fire and motion of the spit must be 
attended to, and when you dish it, draw your knife 
four times down the breast; have ready a little hot 
butter, and juice of a lemon, cayenne pepper, a 
little dust of sugar, a glass of port wine; pour it 
all hot, at the last minute, over your ducks; the 
remainder left of these birds the next day makes 
excellent salmi or hash, taking care of all the 
gravy that may remain. 

Roast Fowls. — If nicely trussed, make a stuf- 
fing of butter and some pepper; dry up the butter 
with a few bread crumbs; baste it well, adding 
flour and salt before you take it from the fire. If 
approved of, stuff the fowl with some good sausage 
meat, truffles, or chestnuts. 

Boiled Fowls. — Flour a white cloth, and put 
the fowls in cold water; let them simmer for three- 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 47 

quarters of an hour; serve with parsley and butter, 
or oyster or celery sauce. The fowls may be cov- 
ered with a white sauce if sent cold to table, and 
garnished with colored calf's foot jelly of the hue 
of beetroot. 

Broiled Fowl. — Separate the back of the fowl, 
and lay the two sides open; skewer the wings as 
for roasting, season well with pepper and salt, and 
broil; send to table with the inside of the fowl to 
the surface of the dish, and serve mushroom sauce- 
it is an admirable breakfast dish when a journey is 
to be performed. 

Made Dishes of Poultry. — Partly roast the 
fowl, cut it up, detach the wings and legs, care- 
fully dividing side bones, neck bones, breast and 
back, in as handsome pieces as possible; take eight 
or ten large onions, which, cut in slices of moder- 
ate thickness, make in a stewpan a layer of the 
sliced onion with some chopped parsley, then lay 
upon it some of the fowl, again a layer of the 
onion and parsley, until the whole of the fowl and 
onion are used; place two bay leaves, about as 
much salt as would fill a large teaspoon, four 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, or, if that is not to the 
palate, substitute cream; it should simmer gently 
until it is done and then be dished, the onion in 
the middle; serve with a little sauce. 

An Indian Pilau.— Truss a fowl as for boiling, 
pass it a few minutes in the oven, raising it up with 
bacon or buttered paper; fry some onions, a few 
bruised coriander seeds, and a few cardamom 
seeds whole, fry a nice light color four onions cut 
in slices, adding to this a gill or more of cream, 
when all fried in a little butter; put in your fowl 
with some good veal stock, have ready some rice 
boiled in milk for two minutes, skim it off and add 



48 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

it to the fowl, frequently looking at it, and moving 
it to keep it from sticking or burning; let your 
fowl stew for a quarter of an hour before you add 
the rice, and do not let the rice get mashed; season 
with cayenne pepper and salt, putting all the rice 
and liquor around the fowl. You can use rabbits, 
chickens, quails, or veal instead of fowl, the same 
way. 

Chickens Boiled. — Care should be taken to 
select the chickens plump, or they form a meager 
dish; they should receive much attention in the 
boiling; they require less time than a fowl, and are 
sent to table with white sauce, and garnished with 
tufts of white broccoli. 

Chickens Pulled. — Remove the skin carefully 
from a cold chicken, then pull the flesh from the 
bones; preserving it as whole as you can. Flour 
them well and fry them a nice brown in fresh 
butter; draw them, and stew in a good gravy well- 
seasoned; thicken a short time before serving with 
flour and butter, and add the juice of half a 
lemon. 

Pigeons Roasted. — ^Veal stuffing for pigeons, 
it improves the flavor; they must be fresh and 
well cleaned; butter and parsley may be served 
with them; but parsley alone as a stuffing, though 
frequently used, is by no means so palatable as the 
veal stuffing, or one made with veal, the fat of 
bacon, and the crumbs of bread soaked in milk, 
and well seasoned. They are sometimes stuffed 
with truffles, or chestnuts and bacon, as turkey, 
covered with thin slices of fat bacon enwrapped 
in vine leaves. 

Pigeon — Broiled. — Split the backs, season 
them highly, lay them over a clear brisk fire, and 
serve with mushroom sauce. 



EVEEYDAY COOK BOOK. 49 

Pigeons Stewed. — Take a white cabbage, cut 
it as if for pickling, then rinse it in clear cold 
water, drain it well, and put it into a saucepan 
with equal quanties of milk and water, boil it, 
strain otf the milk, and take a portion of the 
cabbage and lay it in a stewpan; soak the pigeons 
for half an hour in cold milk and water, season 
them well witii salt and pepper, adding a little 
cayenne; then place them in the stewpan with the 
cabbage, jover them o\er with what remains, add 
some white broth, stew slowly until the pigeons are 
tender, thicken with a little cream, flour, and butter, 
let it boil, and serve up the pigeon with a puree of 
tlie cabbage. 

To Pot Pigeons. — Season them well with pep- 
per, cayenne, a little mace, and salt, pack them 
closely in a pan, cover them with butter, and bake 
them; let them get cold, then take off the fat; 
and put the pigeons into pots, pouring melted but- 
ter over them. 

Wood Pigeons. — May be dressed exactly as 
tame pigeons, save that they require less time in 
the cooking, and the gravy or sauce should be 
richer and of higher flavor. 

Venison— THE Haunch.— The haunch of veni- 
son, when about to be roasted, should be washed 
in warm milk and water, and dried with a clean 
cloth. During the time it is at the fire, do not be 
afraid of basting it too much; if it be a buck 
haunch, and large, it will take nearly four hours; 
if comparatively small, three hours and a half will 
suffice; if a doe haunch, three hours and a quarter 
will be enough. Dish it and serve, but let there 
be nothing witli it in the dish; the gravy should 
be sent to table in its proper dish, accompanied by 
currant jelly. 



60 EVERYDAY COOK BOO^. 

Hashed Venison.— Cnt and trim some nice 
thin slices of venison, fat and lean; have a nice 
brown sauce made from the bones in scrag of tlie 
Tension, put the meat you have cut into this sauce 
with the gravy that has run from the venison, and 
a glass of port wine. Cut up some of the fat into 
pieces an inch thick, put ihe fat in a stewpan, 
and some hot stock upon them; when you have 
dislied up your hash, which should be in a hot 
water dish, with a holey spoon, take out the fat, 
and sprinkle it all over the hash; send up cur- 
rant jelly. 

Partridges. — Should not be stuffed. Grate 
bread crumbs into a shallow dish, place them be- 
fore the fire to brown, shaking them occasionally, 
and send them to table with the birds. 

Partridges — Broiled. — Let the partridge hang 
Tintil longer would make it offensive, then split 
it, and take a soft clean cloth and remove all 
the moisture inside and out; lay it upon a grid- 
iron over a very clear fire, and spread a little salt 
and cayenne over it. When it is done, which will 
be in twenty minutes, rub a little butter over it, 
and send it to table with mushroom sauce. 

Stuffing for a Hare. — After having either 
scraped or scalded the liver, scrape some fat bacon, 
a little suet, some parsley, thyme, knotted-mar- 
joram, a little shallot, a few crumbs of bread, pep- 
per and salt, a few grains of nutmeg, beat it all 
well in a mortar with one esfg, but if your hare 
is boned it will take more. You can dress a boned 
hare two ways: either taking each bone out but 
the head and the point of tlie tail; but this will 
not keep so g'>od a shape as if you only took out 
the back and rib bones, leaving tiie shoulders and 
legs on; this way, when stuffed, will keep its shape 
best. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. W 

Plovers.— These birds must not be drawn; roast 
them before a brisk fire, but at a distance, and serve 
on toast with melted butter. 

Woodcocks AND Snipes.— Should not be drawn, 
but have toast as for grouse under them, passing 
out the tail, and chop it and spread it on the 
bird; lay them under the heads in the dripping 
pan. 

Rabbits.— You will roast the same as hares; and 
if required to be stuffed— melted butter, chopped 
parsley, and the liver chopped, pepper and salt. 

Boiled Rabbits.— A rabbit should boil only 
twenty minutes, and boil slowly; if larger than 
common, an extra ten minutes may be allowed; it 
should be sent to table smothered in onion sauce, 
and the water should be kept free from scum. It 
is trussed for boiling differently to what it is for 
roasting. 

Rabbit with Onions. — Truss your rabbit, and 
lay it in cold water; if for boiling, pour the gravy 
of onions over it, and if you have a white stock-pot 
on, boil it in that. 



VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 

Chartreuse of Vegetables.— Line a plain 
moid with bacon; have ready some half-done car- 
rots, turnips, French beans cut lor g with a French 
cutter, all the same length, place them prettily 
round the mold, nntil you gel to the top, and 
fill in the middle with m.ished potatoes, cauli- 
flower, spinach, or some veiil forcement; put it on 
to steam, turn it out, and put asparagus or mush- 
room sauce round it. 



52 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Asparagus. — Let the stalks be lightly but well 
scraped, and as they are done, be thrown into cold 
water; when all are finished, fasten them into 
bundles of eqnal size; put them into boiling water, 
throw in a handful of salt, boil until the end of 
the stalk becomes tender, which wiH be about half 
an hour; cut a round of bread, and toast it a clear 
brown, moisten it with the water in which the 
asparagus was boiled, and arrange the stalks with 
the white ends outward. A good melted butter 
must accompany it to table. Asparagus should be 
dressed as soon after it has been cut as practi- 
cable. 

French Beans. — When very young the ends 
and stalks only should be removed, and as they are 
done, thrown into cold spring water; when to be 
dressed, put them in boiling water which has been 
salted with a small quantity of couimon salt-; in a 
qujirter of an hour they will be done, the criterion 
for which is when they become tender; the sauce- 
pan should be left uucovered, there should not be 
too much water, and they should be kept boiling 
rapidly. When they are at their full growth, the 
ends and strings should be taken off. and the beans 
divided lengthwise and across, or, according to the 
present fashion, clit diagonally or aslant. A small 
piece of soda a little larger than a small-sized pea, 
if put into the boiling water with the beans, or 
with any vegetables, will preserve that beautiful 
green which is so desirable for them to possess 
when placed upon the table. 

French Beans, Salad. — Boil them simply, 
drain them, and let them cool; put them in a disli, 
and garnish with parsley, pimpernel, and tarragon, 
and dress like oth<M* salads. 

SiEvvED Beans — Hoil them in water in which 
a lump of butter has been placed; preserve them 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 53 

aa white as you can; chop a few sweet herbs with 
some parsley very fine, then stew them in a pint 
of the water in which the leaves have been boiled, 
and to which a quarter of a pint of cream has been 
added; stew until quite tender, then add the beans 
and stew five minutes, thickening with butter and 
flour. 

Beans Boiled. — Boil in salt and water with a 
bunch of savory, drain, and then put them into a 
stewpan, v/ith five spoonfuls of sauce tournee re- 
duced, the yolk of three eggs, and a little salt; 
then add a piece of fresh butter, and stir it con- 
stantly till of a proper thickness. 

Windsor Beans. — They should be young, and 
shelled only just previous to cooking; salt the 
water in which they are to be cooked, and, when 
boiling, throw in tlie beans; when tender, drain in 
a cullender, and send to table with plain melted 
butter, or parsley and butter. They usually ac- 
company bacon or boiled pork to table. 

Haricot Beans. — Take two handfuls of the 
white beans, and let them lie in boiling water until 
the skins come off; pnttiilg them in cold water as 
you do them, then tuke them out, and put them 
in a stewp.m with some good stock, and boil them 
until nearly to a glaze; then add some good brown 
sauce to them, shaking them about; season with 
sugar, salt, and pepper. 

Beet Roots. — Cut in equal-sized slices some 
beet root, boiled or baked, of a good color, make 
it hot between two plates in the oven, dish it as 
you would cutlets, round; make a good piquant 
sauce, boil some button onions white and tender, 
jmd throw them in the middle of the dish with 
the sauce. 



54 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Cabbages. — A full-grown or summer cabbage 
Bhould be well and thoroughly washed; before 
cooking, cut it into four pieces, boil rapidly, with 
the saucepan uncovered, half an hour; a young 
cabbage will take only twenty minutes, but it must 
be boiled very rapidly; a handful of salt should be 
thrown in the water before the cabbage is put in. 

Cabbage Red. — They are mostly stewed to eat 
with ham, bacon, or smoked sausages, though 
sometimes without any meat; they are very strong 
eating, and should be first scalded, then stewed 
with butter, pepper, salt, and cloves, and vinegar 
added to it Just before serving; they are considered 
wholesome in veal broth for consumptives, but 
are mostly pickled. 

Cauliflower, to Boil. — Trim it neatly, and 
let it soak at least an hour in cold water, then 
put it into boiling water, in which a handful of 
salt has been thrown; let it boil, occasionally skim- 
ming the water. If the cauliflower is small, it will 
only take fifteen minutes; if large, twenty minutes 
may be allowed; do not let it remain after it 
is done, but take it up, and serve immediately. 
If the ~ cauliflower is to be preserved white, it 
ought to be boiled in milk and water, or a little 
flour should be put into the water in which it is 
boiled, and melted butter should be sent to table 
with it. 

Green" Peas. — A delicious vegetable, a grateful 
accessory to many dishes of a more substantial 
nature. Green peas should be sent to table green; 
no dish looks less tempting than peas if they wear 
an autumnal aspect. Peas should also be young, 
and as short a time as possible should be suffered 
to elapse between the periods of shelling and boil- 
ing. If it is a matter of cousequence to seud them 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 55 

to table in }>erfection, these rules must be strictly 
observed. They should be as near of a size as a 
discriminating eye can arrange them; they should 
then be pufc in a cullender, and some cold water 
suffered to run through them in order to wash 
them; then, having the water in which they are 
to be boiled slightly salted, and boiling rapidly, 
pour in the peas; keep the saucepan uncovered, 
and keep them boiling swiftly until tender; they 
will take about twenty minutes, barely so long, 
unless older than they should be; drain com- 
pletely, pour them into the tureen in which they 
are to be served, and in the center put a slice of 
butter, and when it has melted, stir round the peas 
gently, adding pepper and salt; serve as quickly 
and as hot as possible. 

How TO Cook Potatoes. — Potatoes should al- 
ways be boiled in their '^jackets;" peeling a potato 
before boiling is offering a premium for water to 
run through it and making them waxy and un- 
palatable; they should be thoroughly washed and 
put into cold water. 

To Boil New Potatoes. — The sooner the new 
potatoes are cooked after being dug, the better 
they will eat; clear off all the loose skins with a 
coarse towel and cold water; when they are thor- 
oughly clean, put them into scalding water; a 
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes will be found 
sufficient to cook them; strain off the water dry, 
sprinkle a little salt over the potatoes, and send 
them to table. If very young, melted butter 
should accompany them. 

KoASTED Potatoes. — Clean thoroughly; nick a 
small piece out of the skin, and roast in the oven 
of the range; a little butter is sometimes rubbed 
over the skiu to make them crisp. 



56 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Fried Potatoes. — Eemove tlie peel from an 
uncooked porato. After ic luis been thoroughly 
waslied, cut the potMtoes into thin slices, and lay 
tliem in a pan with some fresli butter; fry gently a 
clear brown, then lay them one u])on the other in 
a small dish, and send to table as an entremets. 

Spinach. — The leaves of the spinach should be 
picked from the stems ; it should then be well 
washed in clean cold water, until the whole of the 
dirt and grit is removed ; three or four waters should 
be employed, it will not otherwise be got thorough- 
ly clean: let it drain in a sieve, or shake it in a 
cloth, to remove the clinging water. Place it in a 
saucepan with boiling water — there should be very 
little; it will be done in ten minutes; squeeze out 
the water, chop the spinach finely, seasoning well 
with pepper and salt; pour three or four large 
spoonfuls of gravy over it, place it before the fire 
•until much of the moisture has evaporated, and 
then serve. 

Lettuce and Endives. — Are better, I think, 
only cut into pieces or into qujirters, and dished 
neatly round, but they must be done in some good 
stock, and not put into thick sauce; but when you 
take them out after being done, you will press and 
form tliem, then boil down their liquor to a glaze, 
"which will, when added to your already thick sauce, 
give the desired flavor; glaze the quarters before 
dishing them; pour the sauce under and around. 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 67 



PASTRY, TARTS, ETC. 

Puff Paste. — One poiiiu] of butter, salt or 
fresh, and one pound of flour, will make a good 
dish of patty-cases, or a large case for a vol-au-vent, 
and the remainder into agood dish of second course 
pastry. Put your flour upon your board, work 
finely in with your hands lightly a quarter of the 
butter, then add water sufficient to make it the 
stiffness or softness of the remainder of the butter; 
each should be the same substance ; work it up 
smooth, tiien roil it out longwjiys half an inch 
thick; and place the remainder of the butter cut 
in slices half way on the paste; dust flour lightly 
over it, and double it up; press it down with your 
rolling-pin, letting it lie a few minutes, then roll it 
three times, thinner each time, letting it lie a few 
minutes between each roll, keeping it free from 
sticking to the board or rolling-pin. This paste is 
ready for patty-cases, or vol-au-vent, or meat pies. 

Beefsteak Pie. — Take some good steaks, beat 
them with a rolling pin, season them with pepper 
and salt; fill a dish with them, adding as much 
water as will half fill it, then cover it with a good 
crust, and bake it well. 

Cold Veal or Chicken Pie. — Lay a crust into 
a shallow tart dish, and fill it with the following 
mixture: Shred cold veal or fowl, and half the 
quantity of ham, mostly lean; put to it a little 
cream; season with white and cayenne pepper, 
salt, a little nutmeg, and a small piece of shallot 
chopped as fine as possible; cover witli crust, and 
turn it out of the dish when baked, or bake the 
crust with a piece of bread to keep it lioUow, and 
warm the miuce with a little creum, and pour in. 



58 EVEKYDAY COOK BOOK. 

Egg Mince Pie. — Take six eggs, boil them hard, 
then shred them very small; take twice the quan- 
tity of suet, and chop it very fine; well wash and 
pick a pound of currants, shred fine the peel of a 
lemon, add them with the juice, six spoonfuls of 
sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small 
quantity of salt, orange, lemon, and citron, candied. 
Cover with a very light paste. 

Lemon Mince Pies. — Take a large lemon, 
squeeze the juice from it, and boil the outside till 
it becomes soft enough to beat to a smash; put to 
it three large apples, four ounces of suet, tlie same 
of sugar, and half a pound of currants; add the 
juice of the lemon, and some candied fruit, the 
same as for other pies. Make a short crust, and 
fill the patty-pans in the usual way. 

Mince Pies Without Meat. — ^^Take of currants, 
apples chopped fine, moist sugar, and suet well 
chopped, a pound of each; a quarter of a pound of 
raisins stoned and chopped small, the juice of four 
Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind 
of one shred fine, nutmeg and mace to suit the 
palate, and a glass of brandy. Mix all together, 
put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. 

Mutton Pie. — Cut steaks from a neck or loin 
of mutton that has hung, beat them, and remove 
some of the fat, season with salt and pepper, and a 
little onion; put a little water at the bottom of the 
dish and a little paste on the edge, then cover with 
a moderately thick paste, or raise small pies, and 
break each bone in two to shorten it, season and 
cover it over, pinching the edge. When they 
come out of the oven, pour into each a little second 
stock. 

Pork Pie. — Cut a piece of the loin of pork into 
chops; remove the rind and bone, cut it into 
pieces, seasoa well with pepper and salt, cover with 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 59 

pnii paste, and bake tlie pie. When ready to be 
served, put in some cuilis, with the essence of two 
onions mixed with a little musta.id. 

Squab Pie. — Cut apples as for other pies, and 
lav them in rows with mutton chops, shred onions, 
aiid sprinkle it among them, and. also some sugar. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Mix together a spoonful 
of flour, a pint of milk, and one egg well beaten, 
add a spoonful of salt, and a little ginger grated; 
put this mixture in a square pan buttered, and 
when browned by baking under the meat, turn the 
other side upward, to be browned also; serve it 
cut in pieces, and arranged upon a dish. If yon 
require a richer pudding, increase the number of 
eggs. 

Apple Dumplings. — Pare a few good-sized bak- 
ing apples, and roll out some paste, divide it into 
as many pieces as you have apples, cut two rounds 
from each, and put an apple under each piece, and. 
put the other over, join the edges, tie them in 
cloths, and boil them. 

Apple Tart.— Take some good baking apples, 
pare, core, and cut them into small pieces; place 
them in a dish lined with puif paste, strew over 
pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, 
and lemon peel chopped small; then add a layer of 
apples, then spice, and so on till the dish is full; 
pour a glass and a half of white wine over tlie 
whole, cover with puff paste, and bake it. AVhen 
done, raise the crust, stir in two ounces of fresh 
butter, and two eggs well beaten, replace the crust, 
and serve either hot or cold. 

Raspberry Tart.- Put some raspberries in a 
patty-pan lined with thin puff paste, strew in some 
finely-sifted sugar, cover with puff paste, aud buke 



60 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

it; when done, take off the top, and ponr in half 
a pint of ci'eam, previously mixed wirh tlie yolks 
of two or three eggs. a!id sweeteneii with a little 
sugar; then return the tart to tiie oven for five or 
six minutes. 

Strawberry Tart. — Put into a basin two 
quarts of the best scarlet strawberries picked, add 
half a pint of cold clarified sugar, the same quan- 
tity of Madeira, with the juice of two lemons, mix 
all well without breaking the strawberries, and put 
them into a puff paste previously baked; Keep them 
very cool. 

Oyster Patties. — Line some small patty-pans 
with a fine puff paste, put a piece of bread into 
each, cover with paste, and bake them. While 
tiiey are baking, take some oysters, beard them, 
and cut the remainder up into small pieces; place 
them in a tosoer, with a very small portion of 
grated nutmeg, a very little white pepper and salt, 
a morsel of lemon peel cut as small as possible, a 
little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; sim- 
mer it a few minutes, then remove the bread from 
the patties and put in the mixture. 

Meat Patties. — The patty-pans should not be 
too large; make a puff paste, put a laver at the 
bottom of the tins, put in forcemeat, and cover 
with puff paste, bake them a light brown, turn 
them out. If for a small dinner, five patties, or 
seven for a large dinner, will suffice for a side 
dish. 

Rice Pan^cakes. — To half a pound of rice put 
two-thirds of a pint of water; boil it to a j^Uy; 
when cold, add to it eight eggs, a pint of cream, 
a little salt and nutmeg, and half a pound of 
butter melted; mix well, adding the butter last, 
and working it only so much as will make the batter 



EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 61 

Bufficiently tliick. Fry them in lard, but employ 
as little as it is possible to fry them with. 

Fritters are made of batter, the same as pan- 
cakes. Drop a small quantity into the pan, have 
ready apples pared, sliced, and cored, lay them in 
the batter and fry them; they may also be made 
with sliced lemon or cnrrants, the latter is par- 
ticularly palatable. They should be sent to table 
upon a folded napkin in"^the dish; any sweetmeat 
or ripe fruit will make fi-itters. 

Apple Fritters.— Take two or three large rus- 
seting apples, pare them thin, cut them half an 
inch thick, lay them on a pie-dish, pour brandy 
over them, and let thorn lie tvvo hours; make a 
thick batter, using two eggs; have clean lard and 
make it quite hot; fry two at a time, a nice light 
brown; put them on the back of a sieve on paper, 
sift pounded sugar over them, glaze them with a 
shovel or salamander; dish on a napkin. After 
they are cut in slices, take out the core with a 
small round cutter. 

Indian Corn Cakes.— Mix a quart of Indian 
meal with a handful of wheat flour, stir in a quart 
of warm milk, a teaspoonful i>f salt, and two 
spoonfuls of yeast; stir alternately into the milk, 
the meal and three well beaten e^gs; when light, 
bake as buckwheat cakes, on a griddle; send tiiem 
to the table hot. Should the barter sour, stir in 
a little saleratus dissolved in luke-warm water, 
letting It set half an hour before baking, 

Best Sponge Cake.— Take one coffee-cupful of 
sugar, and four eggs; beat them to a cream; ad.l 
a piece of saleratus ns large as a pea dissolved in 
a teaspoonful of milk; also a lirtle nutmeg and 
esseiice of lemon; srir in cnrefully a coffee-cup of 
flour. Bake in a quick oven. 



63 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

A Light Cake. — Take a pint bowl full and a 
half of sugar, one and a half cups of butter rubbed 
in two pint bowls of flour, two cups of sour cream, 
a teaspoonful of saleratus, tablespoonful of rose 
water, four eggs well beaten, and a little nutmeg. 

Composition Cake. — Take four cups of flour, 
four of sugar, two cups of butter, five eggs, half 
a pint of cream, teaspoonful of saleratus, spice to 
suit your taste. Beat all well together, and bake 
in a butter tin or in cups. 

Indian Griddle Cake. — Take one pint of 
Indian meal and one cup of flour, a little salt 
and ginger, a tablespoonful of molasses, a tea- 
Spoonful of saleratus, sour milk enough to make a 
stiff batter. Bake them on a griddle like buck- 
wheat cakes. 

Common Plum Cake.— Mix five cups of butter 
with ten cups of flour, five cups of sugar; add six 
cups stoned raisins, a little cinnamon and mace 
finely powdered, half a cup of good new yeast put 
into a pint of new milk, warm and mix the dough; 
let it stand till it is light. 

Pound Cake. — One pound dried sifted flour, 
the same of loaf sugar, and the whites of twelve 
eggs and the yolks of seven. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar by degrees, then the eggs 
and flour; beat it all well together for an hour, 
mixing a teaspoonful of rose water, a little nutmeg 
or cinnamon, two cups of cream, and a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus. To be baked in a quick 
oven. 

Tea Cakes. — A quart of flour, one pint of 
sour cream, teaspoonful saleratus, two cups of 
molasses, a little cinnamon and salt; make a stiff 
paste, and bake it in a moderate oven. 



fiVEKYDAY COOK BOOK. fe3 

Breakfast Butter Cakes.— One quart of 
sour milk, one teaspoonful salenitus, a little salt, 
one and a half cups of boiled rice, two table- 
spoonfuls molasses or half cup of sugar, a little 
ginger, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Buckwheat Cakes.— Take one quart of buck- 
wheat meal, half a cup of new yeast, a teaspoonful 
of saleratus, a little salt, and sufficient new milk or 
cold water to make a thick batter. Put it in a 
warm place to rise. When it has risen sufficiently, 
bake it on a griddle or in a spider. The griddle 
must be well buttered, and the cakes are better to 
be small and thin. 

Plain Indian Cakes.— Take a quart of sifted 
Indian meal, sprinkle a little salt over it, mix it 
with scalding water, stirring; bake on a tin stove 
oven. Indian cake is made with buttermilk, or 
sour milk, with a little cream or butter rubbed into 
the meal, and a teaspoonful of saleratus. 

Butter Cakes for Tea. — Beat two eggs, put 
them in half pint of milk, and a teacup of cream, 
with half a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in the 
cream, a little salt, cinnamon and rose-water if you 
like, stir in sifted flour till the batter is smooth and 
thick. Bake them on a griddle or in a pan. But- 
ter the pan well, drop the batter in small round 
cakes and quite thin. They must be turned and 
nicely browned. Lay them on a plate with a little 
Butter between each layer. 

Cream Cakes. — One quart of flour, one pint 
of cream, a little sour cream, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus dissolved in the sour cream. If the flour 
is not made sufficiently wet with the above quantity 
of cream, add more sweet cream. 

Rolls. — Rub into a pound of flour half a teacup- 
ful of butter; add half a teacup of sweet yeast, a 



64 EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

little suit, juid sufficient warm milk to make a stiff 
doii.2;h; cover and put it where it will be kept 
warm, and it will rise in two hours. Then make 
into rolls or round cakes. They will bake in a quick 
oven in fifteen minutes. 

Cup Cake. — Take one cup of butter, two cups 
of sugar, three cups of flour, and four eggs. Tea- 
Bpoonful of saleratus, nutmeg and rose water. 

Tea Cake. — To four cups of flour add three 
cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, and one spoonful of dissolved pearl- 
ash. 

Indian Cake. — Take three cups of Indian 
meal, two cnps of flour, one half a teacup of mo- 
lasses, a little salt, one teaspoonful of saleratus, and 
mix them with cold water. 

Loaf Cake. — Two pounds of flour, half a 
pound of sugar, quarter of butter, three eggs, one 
gill of milk, half a teacup sweet emptyings, cinna- 
mon and rosewater. 

Common Ginger-Bread. — Take a quart bowl- 
ful of flour, and rub into a teacup of sweet butter, 
two cups of sugar, three of molasses, teacup of 
cream, teaspoonful saleratus, ginger to your tasto. 
Make it stiff batter, bake in a quick oven. 

Ginger-Bread. — Four cups of flour, three eggs, 
one cup of butter, two of sugar, one of cream, 
ginger, nutmeg, saleratus. 

Arrow-root Custards. — Four eggs, one dessert- 
spoonful of arrow-root, one pint of milk sweetened, 
and spiced to the taste. 

[the end.] 



l\)E pi^I/T)I^OSE 5EI^1E5 

O IT 

WORLD'S BEST FICTION, 

::omprising translations of the best foreign fiction, together with the 
works of popular Euglish and Ainericau Authors. 



ISSUED 5E/T\I-/I\0flSHCY. pi^I<?E, 50 ^^flJS, 



No. I -Another Man's Wife, by Bertha M. Clay. 50 
No. 2 The Belle of the Season, by Mrs. Harriet ^ 

Lewis 50 

No.' 3 -Doctor Jack, by St. George Ratliborne 50 

^O. 4-KathIeen Douglas, by Julia Truitt Bisliop. 50 
^o. 5-Her Royal Lover, by Ary Ecilaw 50 

1^0. 6 -Jose, by Otto Kuppius 50 

No. 7-His Word of Honor, by E. Werner 50 

No. 8 A Parisian Romance, by A. I). Hall 50 
No. 9— A Woman's Temptation, by Bertha M. 

Clay 50 

No. 10 Stella Rosevelt, by Mrs. Geor8:ie Sheldon. 50 
No. 1 I —Beyond Pardon, by Bertha M. Clay 50 

No. 12 Lost A Pearle, by Mrs. Oeor^ie Sheldon. 50 

No. 13 The Partners, by Alphonse Baudet 50 

No. 14 Sardou's Cleopatra, by A. D. Hall 50 

No. 15 The Lone Ranch, by Capt. Mayne Reid . . . 50 
No. 16 Put Asunder, by Bertha M. Clay 50 



THE PBIMUOSE SEUIES combines the highest art of book- 
making with the best fiction that can be obtained. For sale by all 
Booksellers and Newsdealers; or sent, postpaid, on receipt of price, by 
STREET & SMITH, PUBLISHERS, 

P. O. BOX 2734. 25-31 ROSE Street, new York. 



s. & s. 



Jlanaal Mbwy. 



^^^^•^ 



No. 1- The Album -Writer's Assistant 10 

No. 2-TIie Way to Dance 10 

No. 3— The Way to Do Magric .10 

No. 4-The Way to Write Letters. 10 

No. 5— How to Behave in Society 10 

No. 6— Amateur's Manual of Photography 10 

No. 7— Out-of-Door Sports 10 

No. 8— How to Do Business 10 

No. 1) -The Young Gymnast 10 

No. 10-The Hunter and Angler 10 

No. 11 -Short-Hand for Everybody 10 

No. 12— The Taxidermist's Manual 10 

No. IS^Riddles and Their Answers 10 

No. 14— The Peerless Reciter 10 

No. 15— The Young Elocutionist 10 

No. 16— CaUahan's Easy Method of Ventriloquism 10 

No. 17— Tlie Standard Reciter 10 

No. 18— Cupid's Dream Book 10 

No. 19— Napoleon's Boolt of Fate 10 

No. 20— The Imperial Fortune -Teller 10 

These popular books are large type editions, well printed, well 
bound, and in handsome covers. For sale by all Booksellers and| 
Newsdealers; or sent, postage free, on receipt of price, by the pub- 1 
Ushers, STREET & SMITH, 

25, 27, 29 and 31 Rose Street, New York. 



i^ttiiuuim^Mk 



