I-:^-. . 
I V ' 





ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000449367 



coi 



cos 

A.| 

oi 
o= 

o| 

CO| 

coi 



"01 > 

■ o <o<o 



:0 

to. 



in 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



PRACTICAL 

HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CONTAINING 



1000 ORIGINAL AND OTHER RECIPES. 



^^ BY 

E. pURET, 

EX-MANAGER OF THE ST. JAMES' HALL, ETC. ETC. 



LONDON AND NEW YORK: 

FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. 

1891. 



PUBLISHER'S PREFACE. 



This is a practical book, by a practical man, written 
for practical people. It covers the whole range of 
culinary effort, and gives a wide choice of meals for 
every day in the year. There is much that is new in 
it, more especially with regard to the Italian and other 
provincial dishes. A strong feature is made of soups 
and boiled meats and other inexpensive preparations, 
there being not only a good selection, but the distinc- 
tions being well marked. 'The directions have been 
carefully revised. They are precise and clear, and 
there is not a recipe in the book which has not been 
practically tried and found to be satisfactory. It also 
contains a number of instructive and valuable re- 
marks on the different products of this country used 
in cookery. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 
INTRODUCTION — REMARKS ON MEAT IN GPNBEAL, AND SKETCHES 

OF SIDES OR HALVES OE BEEE, VBAL, AND JIUTTON, SHOW- 
ING JOINTS THEREFROM I 

REMARKS ON NEW ZEALAND MUTTON AND AMERICAN BEEF . . 8 

REMARKS ON BOILED MEAT 9 

WHAT SHOULD BE HYNDT ON THE KITCHEN TABLE AND LARDER. II 

BOUQUET GARNI OR BUNCH OF DHT HERBS 11 

-CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR 12 



CHAPTERS 

I. SOUPS — GRAVIES — MACARONI AND PASTE OF ALL DESCRIP 

TIONS — RICE — RISOTTO — AND ORDINARY JELLY 

II. SOUPS FOR CONVALESCENTS AND CHILDREN 

HL SAUCES — MELTED BUTTER — ESSENCES — JELLIES . 

IV. PUREES OF VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING — EGGS — OMELETS 

—PANADAS — BREADINGS 

V. FORCEMEAT — GARNISHING IN GENERAL— SALPICON 

"VI. FRYING — BATTER PASTE — HOT AND COLD HORS-d'oSUVRES 

Vn. TRIPE — LIGHT ENTRIES — SAUSAGES . 

Vin, BOILED MEAT ... 

FISH AND CRUSTACEANS 

IX. BEEF ... 

X. VEAL ... 



II 
76 
80 

108 
124 
142 

176 
igl 

248 



viii CONTENTS. 

CHAP. PAQE 

XI. MOTION — LAMB AND KID 259 

XII. POBK-^HAM — SUCKINO PIG — WILD BOAB . . . . 271 
XIII. VENISON — HARE — BABBIT 284 

XIV. POCLTBY 289 

XV. GAME 329 

XVL HOT AND COLD MEAT PIES — PUDDINGS — GALANTINES AND 

POTTED GAME 342 

XVII. VEGETABLES— SALADS— SANDWICHES 356 

XVin. PASTE — PASTRY — SWEET DISHES— ICES .... 387 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



INTRODUCTION AND PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 

Since cookery was discovered to be a science and classed, 
as well as cultivated, as an art by epicures of renown, 
many more or less valuable books have been written on 
the subject by professional cooks, as well as by amateurs of 
all descriptions in the mysteries of gastronomy. The aim 
of these has, no doubt, been to educate the palate and en- 
lighten the readers as to the different modes of preparing 
good and tasty food at nominal cost ; but the majority of 
the books are either copies of others, or have been written 
with a very limited culinary knowledge ; with few excep- 
tions, they give neither quantity, measure, nor weight, nor 
the time needed for following out their numerous and per- 
plexing recipes, and thus afford but very little help to the 
uninitiated. 

This frequent want of explicitness in these works, com- 
bined with the growing taste for novelties, has induced me 
to offer herein the knowledge I have gathered during an 
experience of many years ; and in doing so I shall be con- 
tent if I succeed in simplifying the directions without pro- 
ducing confusion, and at the same time give in all cases 
the correct weight and measure, as well as the exact 
time for cooking each recipe, besides suggesting economical 
reform in the kitohen and encouraging the use of good and 
nutritious food. Although steps have of late been taken 
towards education in culinary knowledge by the so-called 



2 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

schools of cookery, there is still plenty of room for improve- 
ment. Cooking ought to be studied as a science and 
practised as an art in every young ladies' school, as well 
as in every home, and for the benefit of the nation at 
large, I sincerely hope that the day will come when every 
girl, rick and poor, will have the proper means, and I 
may say further, be compelled to learn its rudiments, so 
that when she is her own mistress, she may, in due course, 
not only be able to give her order in a practical manner, 
and compose her menus according to her means and fancies, 
but be able also, if necessary, to cook /or herself, and by so 
doing be less dependent on her cook. 

Abroad, and especially in France, the culinary art is far 
better cultivated than it is here. There men as well as 
women of every station seem to take a pride in the know- 
ledge of cookery, without in any way interfering with the 
rights or self-esteem of their cooks ; on the- contrary, the 
latter are far more attached to their employers, and also 
more attentive to their duties, well knowing that their 
services could be dispensed with at any moment, without 
causing the slightest inconvenience to their mistresses, 
should they attempt to show such independence and 
temper as they so often do in this country. 

Having thus far expressed my views on the present 
knowledge of cookery, I will at once proceed. As our 
senses were made for our enjoyment, so were the good 
things in the world. The different products imported into 
England afford proofs of bounty which it would be unrea- 
sonable and ungrateful to reject; in fact, it would be a 
sort of impiety were we not to avail ourselves of them and 
turn them to their very best account. In endeavouring to 
bring before the public their proper use, I take the oppor- 
tunity of advocating a branch of the culinary art which is 
not so well known as it ought to be, and is consequently 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

very little cultivated — I mean the pure Italian cookery. 
Whoever has travelled through that land of fine art and 
poetry must have indulged, more or less, in its national 
dishes, and brought back with him sweet remembrances 
of its palatable, appetising, and nourishing food. My ex- 
perience as a restaurant manager arid caterer of long stand- 
ing enables me to write with acertain amount of authority 
on this subject, as whenever and wherever I have intro- 
duced some of those specialities, I have always found that 
they were appreciated-and relished. Rice and paste of all 
descriptions, such as macaroni, spaghetti, tagliatelli, vermi- 
celli, ravioli, &c., &c., play a great part in the ordinary 
Italian cookery ; and as they are all cheap items, nutritious, 
wholesome, digestive, and can be prepared in so many dif- 
ferent ways, it is my intention of expatiating on them, 
trusting that my efforts- will be appreciated by both the 
middle and working classes, for whose instruction and 
benefit this part of the work is more particularly intended. 
There is an old saying which may be appropriately quoted 
here ; that " if you have a favour to ask of a man, ask it 
of him after he has had a good dinner." There is a great 
deal of truth in this, and I should very much like to im- 
press its moral on my fair readers, who, if my instructions 
are properly carried out, will soon discover its truth, and 
reap the benefit of their industry and culinary knowledge. 
It is a well-known fact that the Englishman is fond of his 
home; add to it the comfort and enjoyment of a good 
dinner, and contentnient, harmony, and happiness will 
reign supreme in the family; herein lies the great bliss 
in your married life, as well as your recompense. 

But in order that culinary duties should be properly 
performed and easily discharged, and at the same time 
a source of comfort and pleasure to the performers, it is of 
(;he greatest importance that the kitchen arrangements, 



4 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ventilation and light — combined with the necessary uten- 
sils and appliances required for cooking successfully (a 
list of which I give at the end of this work) — should be 
studied in a more practical manner and provided for with 
greater liberality than is actually found, even, I am sorry 
to say, in some of the wealthiest houses of this country. 

Families with limited means are generally very fond of 
accumulating and shelving innumerable knick-knacks, in 
their different rooms that are quite worthless for domestic 
comfort, although very pleasing to the eye as ornaments; 
but they will disregard and neglect the furnishing of proper 
stewpans and other appliances, really necessary for provid- 
ing satisfactorily and successfully for their daily wants. 

Oleanhness is one of the most essential conditions in all 
cooking operations. Vessels and utensils of every descrip- 
tion used for such purpose should be kept^the inside even 
more than the outside — in a constantly bright and pplished 
state, without which no cooking should ever be attempted. 
Many failures in sauces and dinners spoiled have been 
attributed to the want of cleanliness. Copper pans should 
often be examined, and as soon as they are found to redden 
inside, should at once be sent to be retinned, as nothing 
is more unwholesome to the food or prejudicial to the 
colouring of sauces, &c. , than a badly tinned pan. 

Cleanliness must also be applied to the different dressers, 
tables, shelves, and sinks, which should be scrubbed daily 
with soap and boiling water, and then properly rinsed and 
wiped. The floors of the kitchens, as well as the larder 
and yard, should also receive their proper attention and be 
scoured as often as wanted. These recommendations are 
not to be considered as a luxury but a necessity, and ought 
to be the fundamental rules in every household. 

Special attention must also be -paid to the hands and 
nails, and no food touched with them unless perfectly clean. 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

The next thing in order, and which is of no less import- 
ance, is, that you should possess a good drawing kitchener ; 
keep it clean and free from soot ; make yourself well ac- 
quainted with the object of its different keys and dampers, 
so that you be able to regulate the heat in the ovens as 
wanted ; otherwise all your efforts at cooking and baking 
will partially be lost. Gas-stoves are simple, clean, and 
very handy in their way, as far as boiling and roasting is 
concerned, but will not answer for middle-class families, 
and therefore I cannot recommend them. French kitch- 
eners or closed ranges are the best constructed in the 
world for usefulness and economy of fuel. 



Remarks on Meat in General. 

The knowledge of the quality of meat, as well as the 
diEferent parts and cuts of the animals, is .absolutely 
necessary to all who have to cater for the public or buy 
for their own private use. 

I therefore give sketches of sides or halves of beef, veal, 
and mutton, showing from which part of the animail each 
cut comes. 

BEEF. 




PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 




By the above sketches it will be seen that the side of 
beef is divided into fifteen parts, besides the head and tail, 
viz : — 

I and 2. Leg and shin, for boiling. 

3 and ;^a. The top side and silver side, two distinct cuts ; 
the former is. used for beef-steaks, and the latter can bo 
braised, but is generally salted. 

4. Shows aitch-bone, a roasting joint. 

5. Rump, for rump-steak. 

6. Thick flank for beef-steak and braising. 

7 and 7a. Sirloin with fillet or under-cut, the best joint for 
roasting, and the kidney for stewing. 

8. Fore-ribs, a joint of six ribs for roasting. 

9 and 9a. Middle ribs, a joint of sis ribs, for roasting and 
stewing, and shoulder for stewing and braising. 

10. Neck, for stewing and boiling. 

1 1. Thin flank, for salting and braising. 

1 2. Brisket, for salting. 

In selecting a piece of beef, see that it is of a bright 
red colour and not coarse in the grain ; the fat must be 
of a light yellow appearance, nicely intermixed with the 
lean and soft to the touch. Its flavour and quality will 
depend, as a matter of course, entirely on the breed and 
food of the animal ; but in either case it is advisable that 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

a joint should be hung some days in a cool draughty place 
before cooking. 

Beef of a brown and dull colour, with ikccid fat, but firm 
and hard to the touch, must be avoided, as these marks are 
true indications of inferior quality meat. 



VEAL. 




Veal is divided into seven parts, besides the head, tail, 
and feet — 

1. Leg of veal, from which cushions and scallops are 
Cut, otherwise called fillets, and is the best part of the 
veal for braising and stewing. 

2. Loin and kidney, for roasting. 

3. Cutlets, for broiling. 

4. Breast, for stewing and roasting. 

5. Neck, for stewing and boiling. 

6. Shoulder, for stewing and boiling. 

7. Knuckle, for boiling. 

Veal must always be chosen of a light colour; the fat 
must be perfectly white and transparent. Veal of a 
reddish tint and lean should be rejected, as it is of an 
inferior quality. For the same reason avoid coarse flesh 
and big joints of veal, as these are sure signs that the 
animal was an old one when killed (see the chapter on 
veal). 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



MUTTON. 




Mutton is divided in six parts, besides the head and 
kidneys : — 

1. Leg, for roasting and boiling. 

2. Loin, for chops. 

3. Best neck or cutlets, for broiling and stewing. 

4. Breast, for stewing. 

5. Neck end or scrag, for boiling and stewing. 

6. Shoulder, for roasting. 

The quality of mutton is known by, the same signs as 
good beef : its flesh must be of a bright red colour, with 
white transparent fat; in a like manner, prime mutton 
depends, for quality and flavour, on the breed and feeding ; 
sheep with black legs and heads yield the best mutton. 

Mutton of a dull red colour, with yellow and opaque fat, 
is of an inferior quality. 



Remarks on New Zealand Mutton and American 
Beep. 

There is a general prejudice among the well todo plassep 
against buying fresh meat imported from America and 
Australia. This, however, ought not to be, as both are 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

equal ill taste and quality to the ordinary English-bred 
meat ; and if the consumers would only waive their fan- 
cies, they would soon find that it is a very difficult task 
to tell one from the other, even amongst would-be con- 
noisseurs. 

How many hundred legs of New Zealand mutton are 
sold daily in Great Britain as English, bred and fed, is 
beyond my power to tell. Suffice it to say, that out of the 
several thousand carcasses imported weekly into this country 
from Australia, not the half of that number is sold as such. 
What becomes of the others ? That is the question ; and if 
you cannot guess, I am afraid your butcher will not be able 
to tell you, for the very simple reason that he does not 
keep it himself — at least so he will say. The same thing 
applies to Australian and American beef. 

Only first quality New Zealand mutton and American 
beef should, however, be bought ; and in either case the 
meat must be hung for a few days in a cool and draughty 
place, previous to cooking. 



Remarks on Boiled Meat. 

There is also a general idea prevailing in England that 
boiled meat is not so nutritious as roast meat. This is a 
great mistake, as it is the only kind of cooking by which 
you can obtain the full value of your materials, and is 
not only the most wholesome and easily digested, but the 
cheapest and most profitable form by which food can be 
prepared for the working classes, as it has been clearly 
demonstrated beyond a doubt that the roast joint will lose 
in weight twice the amount of the boiled one ; and as the 
broth derived from the latter must also be taken into con- 
sideratioDj it will at once convince you, I am sure, that 



lo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

this is the most economical kind of cooking. It forms, I 
may say, part of the daily bill of fare of almost aU classes 
in other countries. 

Mr. Buckmaster, who has studied this point in a most 
practical manner, and ought to be considered an authority 
on the subject, says in his valuable little book on Cookery, 
that "persons who cook their iFood in water do it more 
economically, and derive from it a greater amount of 
nourishment, than those who employ the direct action of 
heat, as in baking and roasting." I thoroughly agree 
with him.* 

* To cook satisfactorily by boiling, however, a, slow and steady fire is 
required, as the cooking cannot be expected to hasten by indiscriminately 
heaping up fuel; all excess of heat is wasted when the boiling-point is 
once reached, and the benefit of a progressive cooking lost without expe- 
diting it. 

But to boil down or reduce gravy and sauces, a brisk fire, producing 
quick evaporation, is absolutely indispensable ; the contents would lose 
appearance and flavour if reduced too slowly. It is therefore of the 
utmost necessity that proper attention should be paid to the different 
simmering and boiling expressions used, such as gently, very gently, or 
on a slow fire and a brisk fire, in order to succeed in obtaining the 
desired effect and taste. 



CHAPTER I. 

SO UPS—GRA VIES— MA CARONI, ETC. 

What Must Always be Handy in thk Kitchen and 
Larder. 

A SEASONING-BOX, Containing salt, white pepper, pepper- 
corns, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, cayenne, and "all- 
spice, should always be handy on the kitchen-table. A 
bottle each of olive-oil, white vinegar, and caramel or 
burnt sugar, a ball of string, and a perforated box of 
powdered or castor sugar on a shelf. Garlic and shalots in 
a small drawer by itself; onions in a basket. All fresh 
vegetables should be kept in a cool place. Tlour, eggs, 
butter, rice, macaroni, and all paste should be kept in the 
larder, as well as all tinned preserves, such as peas, French 
beans, mushrooms, tomato sauce, and truiHes ; also jams, 
marmalade, syrups, preserved fruits, pistachios, saffron, 
curry, parmesan cheese, capers, gherkins, vanilla, chocolate, 
coffee, lemons, orange-flower water, sago, tapioca, semolina, 
oatmeal, pearl barley, lard, bacon, ham, &c., which should 
be brought to the kitchen as wanted. The following dry 
herbs should also be hung in a dry but not too hot place : — 
Thyme, sage, marjoram, bay-leaves, rosemary, basil, laurel- 
leaves, chives, and burnet. 

,,,<As " bouquet garni " * will often be required in the 
process of cooking, I will give here the proper mode of 
preparing one, say, for a family of six or eight persons. 
Take a small handful of parsley weighing about one ounce 

* " Bouquet garni," a banoh or faggot of dry aromatic herbs. 



12 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and wash it clean, add one ounce of thyme, the same weight 
of bay-leaves and marjoram, and one clove of garlic; roll 
the dry herbs into the parsley ; fold over each end ; and tie 
the bundle round with a small string. 



CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

■^Caramel can be prepared in the following manner : — Take 
a small and very clean stewpan, put one pound of loaf-sugar 
in it, set the stewpan over the fire ; stir it continually with 
a wooden spoon till the sugar is thoroughly melted, then 
boil it very slowly for fifteen minutes, giving it an occasional 
stir, when the sugar is seen coming to a dark-brown colour ; 
add gradually one pint and a half of cold water, stirring the 
while, and letting it again boil slowly for another twenty 
minutes ; then let it cool, strain and pour it into a clean 
bottle, which must be kept corked. It will keep thus for 
years. 

L ORDINARY STOCK. 

Stock or broth is the principal element of good cooking, 
as well as the foundation of all soups, and of many sauces. 
No household should be without it ; and as soup is also 
the first course served at a dinner, I will a:t once proceed 
with the mode of its preparation. 

In order to study economy, all bones from previously 
cooked meat should be collected, broken, and put in a stock- 
pot, together with any skin, gristle, and trimmings of fresh 
meat, as well as the remnants of cooked chicken and game 
bones that may be had. Add to these four or five pounds of 
leg of beef and a knuckle of veal ; cover the lot with cold 
water, say four quarts, and throw in a tablespoonful of 
salt ; boil gently for three or four hours, carefully remov- 
ing all scum and fat from the top with a skimmer at the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 13 

beginning of the ebullition, otherwise it will partially re- 
dissolve and spoil the clearness and flavour of the stock; 
then strain the liquor through a fine sieve into an earthen- 
ware pan, and remove to a cool place till next day. 

The above stock may be improved a great deal by adding 
two or three pennyworth of vegetables and ingredients, 
as in the following recipe, when a broth good enough for 
soup can be obtained. 

2. BROTH OR CONSOMM^. 

Take five pounds of the shin of beef, tie it with a string 
to keep it together ; add from one to two pounds of knuckle 
or leg of veal ; put these into a stock-pot with the stock 
made out of bones the previous day, to which a quart of 
cold water can be added. Should there be, however, no 
ordinary stock made, pour in four quarts of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of salt; set it over the fire till it 
nearly boils, when the scum must be removed most care- 
fully by frequent skimming ; add at intervals about a 
gill of cold water, which will check the ebullition and 
help the scum to rise. When the scum is all removed, 
peel two ordinary-sized onions (not Spanish), stick in 
each three cloves, and drop them in the stock-pot; wash 
two leeks and a small head of celery, tie them together; 
scrape two carrots of average size, slit into four and 
two inches in length; peel two turnips and cut them 
into four; and then make a "bouquet garni "- (page 11), 
and season with a teaspoonful of pepper-corns. These 
items should all be put in separately, in order to keep 
the contents of the stock-pot at the same temperature. 
Skim the liquor for the last time; after which let it 
simmer gently by the side of the fire for about three 
hours ; then take the meat out, skim off all the fat, and 



14 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

put it by in ■ a basin ; so that, when cold, it can be used 
for frying or other purposes. 

A small cabbage cut in quarters, properly cleaned, as 
well as a few potatoes, cut in four and added two hours 
after the other vegetables, will be an improvement to the 
broth as well as a garnish to the meat. 

If proper attention is paid to the skimming and simmer- 
ing of the stopk-pot, the clarifying of the broth will not 
be required; but should there be a failure in carrying 
out accordingly the instructions, the best thing to do is 
to take the whites and shells of three eggs ; crush the 
shells well in the hands or in a mortar ; mix them with 
the whites and a quarter of a pint of cold water, whisk 
these well together in a basin for a few seconds, add 
half a pint of boiling broth, still beating the mixture, 
and pour it into the stock-pot j stir the stock briskly till 
it boils ; then remove the pot by the side of the fire ; 
let it remain there for a few minutes or till the whites 
of the eggs rise to the surface ; after which strain care- 
fully, and the broth will be perfectly clarified. 

Pour some of the broth into a soup-tureen in which some 
thin slices of toasted bread have been previously placed ; 
add part of the cooked vegetables from the stock-pot. 
Nicely shred and serve. ' This is the real j)ot-au-feu, and 
considered the standard dish in France. 

Should the broth be preferred of a golden colour, pour 
a few drops only of caramel in a soup-ladle or spoon ; dip 
it into the soup-tureen and stir three or four times. 

Broth should be strained as follows : — Take an earthen- 
ware pan or basin of a size large enough to hold the 
quantity of broth made; lay over it a clean cloth and a 
fine hair sieve at the top of the cloth, pour on to it the 
contents of the stock-pot, and remove the strained broth 
to a cool place free from dust, A piec? of muslin gauze 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 15 

may be placed over it, but never cover it entirely, nor at 
any time pour hot broth into the cold, as the reaction 
will turn it sour. 

Stock can be kept fresh and good for several days in 
cold weather, but during the summer it is advisable to boil 
it on the second day and every day afterwards. Storms 
and thunder will also turn broth sour; and to prevent 
this, you should boil beforehand. 

If any particles of fat remain at the top of the broth, 
they can easily be removed in a solid state when cold. 
Blotting or kitchen paper laid on the surface of the broth 
will also remove all globules of fat. 

Note. — When the broth is properly made it will turn 
into jelly when cold. 

The boiled beef and veal taken out of the stock-pot 
will be found delicious if eaten hot with the remainder 
of the cooked vegetables and gherkins. I mention this 
because I know of several instances where it has been 
thrown away for want of knowledge. 



3. ORDINARY FAMILY STOCK. 

Broth made out of beef is always the best ; nevertheless, 
in country places where that meat can only be had with 
difficulty, mutton can be substituted, and by so doing make 
what is generally called mutton broth ; veal may also be 
added, when the broth will be all the richer. 

Take four pounds of neck or scrag of mutton and two 
pounds of leg of veal (if no veal, six pounds of mutton), 
put the meat in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, and 
brown nicely for about twenty minutes; then pour in three 
quarts of cold water and add two onions; let the liquor 
come to the boil slowly. Skim as carefully as in No. 2, 
then add two turnips cut in quarters, one carrot sliced 



1 6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in very small dice, and one ounce of pearl barley previously 
blanched for ten minutes ; let the contents simmer for two 
hours; after which take the meat out, skim off the fat, 
then add a little parsley chopped fine, season to taste with 
salt only, and pour the broth into a soup-tureen with the 
carrots, turnips, and barley. 

Should some of the meat be desired with the soup, cut in 
small dice about half a pound of the lean mutton, add it to 
the soup ; mix well and serve. 

4. ORDINARY STOCK FOR GRAVY AND SAUCES. 

Put into a saucepan six pounds of shin gf beef, two 
pounds of leg of veal, two carrots sliced, one onion, and 
half a head of celery cut in two ; brown the lot with two 
ounces of butter for about twenty minutes j then add three 
quarts of stock No. i and an old fowl. Boil, and skim 
in the usual way, then let it simmer gently till the broth 
is reduced by one-half,' then strain it into a pan. 

To further improve this stock, which will serve after- 
wards as a foundation to all brown sauces, add a piece of 
rabbit or an old partridge previously browned either before 
the fire or in the oven. 

Note. — No salt must be put in this stock. 

5. GRAVY SOUP. 

Put into a stewpan three rashers of bacon, two slices of 
ham, four pounds of lean beef (silver side or top side is the 
best), an old fowl, two pounds of leg of veal, two carrots cut 
in slices, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, half a head 
of celery, two leeks, two turnips, and a "bouquet garni." 
Pour in it one quart of No. i stock, reduce it by a sharp 
boiling of half an hour's duration, often stirring the con- 
tents with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. Then add 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 17 

four quarts of ff similar stock and boil it gently, when 
proper attention must be paid to the skimming ; after which 
draw it by tlie side of the fire and simmer for three hours. 
Meanwhile take about three pounds of leg of mutton, roast 
it half through and put it into the stewpan, continue the 
simmering till the mutton is properly cooked, then take all 
the meat out; let the broth boil again for a few minutes, 
add about an ounce of sugar, a glass of sherry, and then 
strain in the usual way. 

This broth or gravy is very rich, and is generally served 
plain. 

6. VEAL BROTH. 

Take four pounds of either shoulder or leg of veal; put 
it in a stewpan with two ounces of good fresh butter, and 
brown it nicely all round for half an hour. Meantime 
boil two quarts of water in a saucepan ; put the veal in, 
together with an onion having two cloves stuck in it, 
one carrot sliced, two leeks, and about one pound of lean 
beef cut in slices, which will add strength and taste to the 
broth ; skim in the usual vva)', add one fowl, and simmer 
gently for two hours ; then take the meat out, strain the 
broth, and serve. 

This broth is delicious, and can be recommended to 
invalids as well as to healthy persons. 

7. CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take two old fowls, killed the previous day, and put 
'them in a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and 
about one pound of shin of beef; cut in small pieces, let 
the liquor boil, skim carefully, then add separately an ' 
onion with a clove stuck in it, half a head of celery, 
one carrot, and a " bouquet garni " composed of half the 
quantity given in the recipe, but no garlic. Then draw 

B 



i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the saucepan by the side of the fire and let the broth 
simmer for two hours and a half or three hours, with the 
saucepan closely covered. Then take the meat out, clarify 
the broth if necessary and strain it as in No. 2, taking 
care to remove all particles of fat before serving. A 
similar broth can also be made with a turkey, goose, or 
two ducks J but special care should be" taken with it, as 
the broth made from either of these birds is heavier, and 
consequently not so digestible. 

8. RABBIT BROTH PROVENfALE. 

The meat of young rabbits is generally tender ; it con- 
sequently possesses all the necessary qualities to make an 
excellent broth, and yields in no way, as far as taste and 
nourishment are concerned, to broth made out of chicken. 

Take two young rabbits, skin and. clean them properly ; 
cut into quarters and place in a stewpan with four table- 
spoonfuls of olive-oil, a clove of garlic minced fine, two 
rashers of bacon, one .carrot, two onions, two leeks, and 
half a head of celery, all sliced as in No. 2. Add a 
"bouquet garni," and brown the lot for about fifteen 
minutes, stirring meanwhile with a wooden spoon to pre- 
vent burning ; then pour in three quarts of cold water, 
boil, skim, and simmer for two hours, sprinkle salt and 
pepper to taste ; strain and serve. A glass of dry white 
wine will much improve this broth. 

9. PARTRIDGE BROTH. 

Broth made with partridges is both warming and 
nourishing. 

Put two quarts of cold water into a saucepan, with two 
old partridges, cleaned and dressed as if for roasting, and 
two pounds of knuckle of veal ; boil and skim, add a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 19 

similar quantity of vegetables and " bouquet garni " as in 
No 2 ; simmer gently for four hours, then strain in the 
usual way. 

This broth is even preferred for strength and quality 
to the chicken broth, and can be strongly recommended 
to weak and convalescent persons, 

10. GAME BROTH A LA CHASSEUR. 

Small game-birds, such as snipe, thr'ushes, quail, larks, 
&,c., make an excellent broth. Pluck and clean two or 
three birds of each sort (the more the better), put them 
into a good-sized stewpan with half a pound of ham cut in 
small dices, two quarts of cold water, and boil them three 
Lours. Take the birds out ; add one pint of boiling water 
to the broth ; season with salt and white pepper to taste, 
and a little grated nutmeg ; boil for another quarter of an 
hour. Skim off both fat and scum, and pour into a soup- 
tureen. 

This broth is rather expensive, but very warming and 
nutritious. 

11. GAME BROTH. 

Put two ounces of good fresh butter into a saucepan, 
two carrots, one onion, two leeks, and the head of half a 
celery, all shred fine ; brown the lot for eight or ten 
minutes ; then add three partridges, prepared as in No. 9, 
but from which the fillet must have been previously cut ; 
an old fowl; and all the bones or meat of cooked game 
or chicken that may be handy ; pour half a pint of good 
stock over the-se, reduce it by a gentle simmering for twenty 
minutes; give it an occasional stir to prevent burning-; 
then pour over it a glass and a half of sherry ; continue 
the simmering for a few minutes longer, then add three 



20 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

quarts of No. i stock, and let it boil on a good fire for half 
an hour ; after which draw by the side of the fire, add a 
" bouquet garni," two cloves, a dozen pepper-corns, and the 
flank of a hare properly browned; let the broth simmer 
for two hours and a half, -when the fowl and partridges 
will be cooked; then take them out, strain the broth 
nicely, remove all particles of fat ; pour the broth into a. 
soup-tureen, and serve. 

12. A REFRESHING BROTH. 

Put into a stewpan four pounds of shin of beef, two pounds 
of knuckle of veal, and an old fowl ; brown these in two 
ounces of butter for twenty minutes, with two carrots, one 
turnip, half a head of celery, and an onion, all cut in slices ; 
also the hearts of four lettuces and half an ounce of 
chervil; pour the lot into a small stock-pot with three 
quarts of cold water ;■ cover the stock -pot closely, and make 
it airtight with a border of paste all round made of flour 
and water. 

Put the stock-pot into a large saucepan or bain-marie, 
fill the latter three parts full of boiling water and let it 
boil for six hours ; adding, as required, boiling water to 
the bain-marie ; then strain the broth, skim the fat as in 
No. 2, and serve. 

This broth may be served as beef tea or soup, to weak, 
fatigued, or consumptive persons, being wholesome, nourish- 
ing, and refreshing. 

13. HOW TO MAKE BROTH IN A FEW MINUTES. 
/I 

^ Mince two pounds of lean beef, half a carrot, a little 

celery, and an onion ; put the lot in a stewpan with three 
pints of cold water, and salt to taste. Boil, skim, and 
strain. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 21 

Should there be, however, a wish for this broth to be 
improved, add at the same time as the other ingredients 
two ounces of rice or vermicelli in a muslin bag, and when 
cooked pour the contents of the bag into a soup-tureen with 
the broth, and serve. 



14. JULIENNE SOUP. 

Slice four carrots of ordinary size so as to leave the middle 
or heart part out ; shred the other parts into small fillets 
or strips of about an inch and a half long ; add also in the 
same manner three turnips, one onion, one head of celery, 
and four leeks ; dry and mix the lot well together ; put them 
into a stewpan with one ounce and a half of good fresh 
butter; fry them to a nice brown colour; then add two 
branches of endive, a small lettuce, and a little chervil, all 
shred very fine. Mix well again, and pour two quarts of 
No. 2 broth, together with six leaves of sorrel previously 
blanched * and cut small. Boil gently for twenty minutes 
or until the vegetable^ are perfectly well cooked ; skim 
carefully ; add about half an ounce of sugar ; salt to taste ; 
then pour into a soup-tureen with a few small crusts of 
bread fried in butter, and serve. 



15. SPRING SOUP. 

This soup, as its name implies, should only be made 
when the vegetables are fresh and tender; and to make 
it a success it is essential that all the following items 
should be cut fine. This will give a good opportunity to 
the cook to show his or her skill in shredding and cutting 
the said vegetables in artistic and decorative forms which 
are always pleasing to the eye. 

* Scalded or parboiled in salt water. 



22 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Take one carrot, one turnip, the heart of a small 
cabbage, half a head of celery, about two ounces of French 
beans, the same quantity each of green peas and aspara- 
gus-points; boil the lot in salt water (asparagus apart) 
till properly cooked ; then strain the water and pour the 
vegetables into a saute-pan in which two or three spoon- 
fuls of either chicken or beef gravy have already been 
placed ; simmer for a few minutes ; then add one quart of 
No 2 broth; salt to taste and two lumps of sugar; boil, 
pour it into a soup -tureen, and serve. 



16. CONDENSED BROTH OR GLAZE. 

Put into a stock-pot six pounds of shin of beef, eight 
pounds of leg of veal, an old fowl, two old pigeons, the same 
quantity of vegetables as in No 2, but first browned with 
butter; pour enough cold water to cover the whole (no 
salt nor bouquet). Let it boil ; skim properly ; cover the 
stock-pot closely, and let it boil gently for six hours; 
after which, strain through a fine cloth. Return the broth 
to a stewpan ; add a quart of boiling water, skim off all 
fat, and simmer till the broth is reduced to a gelatinous 
substance, stirring meanwhile the contents with a wooden 
spoon, till the gravy is thick enough to remain attached 
to the said spoon. Then pour it into an earthenware jar, 
the inside of which must be previously greased with either 
fresh butter or fine olive-oil ; let it get cold. Then lay flat 
at the top a sheet of white paper properly greased or oiled, 
and cut to the shape of the jar ; then place another cover, 
made of brown paper, over it, and tie it around with 
string. Put the jar on a shelf in the larder, as it is now 
ready for use. When it is wanted, remove the string and 
paper, and cut with a knife the glaze or condensed broth 
as required. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 23 

17. BRUNOISE SOUP. 

Cut in small dice tlie red part of three carrots, two 
turnips, one tead of celery, two leeks, and half an onion. 
Blanch the lot in boiling salt water; strain through a 
colander, and pour them into a stewpan with an ounce and 
a half of fresh butter. Pry gently for five minutes ; then 
add three pints of No 2 broth ; simmer gently for twenty 
minutes ; skim and pour the soup into a tureen with a few 
slices of bread, and serve. 

Two or three spoonfuls of green peas properly blanched 
can alsa be added with advantage to the other vegetables. 

18. CHICKEN GRAVY. 

Take two quarts of chicken broth and boil in a stewpan. 
Meantime m.elt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in 
another stewpan ; add a similar weight of flour and three 
ounces of ham cut in slices; fry all to a brown colour; 
poui? the boiling broth over and stir with a wooden spoon 
till it comes to the boil ; then draw the stewpan by the 
side of the fire, and simmer for one hour, stirring the 
contents about every ten minutes to prevent burning ; 
after which, skim and pass it through a sieve into a small 
earthenware pan or basin. 

This gravy must be nearly white, thick and smooth, 
and can be used either with purees made of chicken or 
vegetables, or with soups made of yolks of eggs. A 
similar gravy can also be made with veal broth, and is 
more economical 

19. GAME GRAVY. 

Take two quarts of game broth, and follow the same 
recipe as No. 18. This gravy ought to be of a nice brown 



24 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

colour, and can be used for strengthening game soups 
when required, 

20. FISH GRAVY. 
Brown some flour in butter as in No. i8 ; then add one 
quart of fish broth ; let it boil, skim, and strain as above. 

21. VEGETABLE GRAVY, 

Proceed in the same way as for fish gravy, 

22. POLISH SOUP, 

Bake eight large potatoes in the oven, peel, and put 
them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and one 
pint of chicken broth. Set the stewpan on the fire, and 
stir with a wooden spoon until the potatoes are well 
mashed ; then pass them through a sieve into the stewpan 
again with three pints of hot chicken broth ; simmer and 
stir gently for a few minutes. Meantime put in a basin the 
yolks of four eggs, two ounces of fresh melted butter, half 
a pint of cream, a little grated nutmeg, salt to taste, a 
tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese and the same 
quantity of powdered sugar ; mix these well together with 
a whisk, and pour them into a soup-tureen with four 
spoonfuls of tagliatelli (see Paste) previously cooked in beef 
gravy; then- pour the thick boiling broth over it, stir 
till well mixed, and serve. 

23, CONDE SOUP. 

Put two pounds of coloured haricot beans if fresh, 
or one pound if dry, into a stewpan, together with one 
partridge, a slice of gammon, and three pints of chicken 
broth properly seasoned with salt and pepper. Set it to 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 25 

the boil, and after an hour or so of boiling take the 
partridge and ham out; pass the beans through a sieve 
by rubbing with a wooden spoon ; put it in the stewpan 
again with the broth ; let it simmer for five or six minutes 
longer; then pour it into a soup-tureen with three spoon- 
fuls of croHtons * fried in butter or quenelles. 

N'ote. — If dry beans are used, take care to soak them in 
water at least ten hours previous to boiling. 

24. PUR6e CRESSY SOUP. 

Fry for ten minutes in a stewpan with two ounces- of 
butter, eight ordinary-sized carrots, one onion, and two 
heads of celery, all shred fine ; also a pint of fresh haricot 
beans ; after which, add one quart of good broth ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Let it boil for an hour and a half ; then 
pass the vegetables through a fine sieve by rubbing in the 
usual way ; pour the pur^e back to the stewpan with the 
remainder of the broth, to which another quart must be 
added, and about an ounce of sugar. Let it again boil gently 
for half an hour, without forgetting to stir the pur^e ; then 
pour it into a soup-tureen, with a few slices of bread cut 
thin. 

If this soup should be required " maigre,'' t use plain 
water instead of broth, and before serving take the yolks of 
four eggs and two ounces of butter; whisk these well, and 
pour it into the soup-tureen as in No. 22. 

25. FISH BROTH. 

Fish with plenty of bone (the flesh of which is generally 
firm) is the best for soup ; and the greater the variety used 

* Crofttons are slices of orumV>3 of bre.ad cut in small dice and fried 
in clarified butter to a nice golden colour, 
t "iUaigre" means food made without meat of any kind. 



26 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the better the broth. Fry in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butter until nicely browned, two carrots, one onion, and 
half a head of celery, all sliced fine ; then add the diiierent 
sorts of fish previously cleaned and cut into pieces four 
inches long, with three pints of boiling water; salt and 
white pepper to taste. Boil fast on a good fire for about 
forty minutes ; skim carefully all fat and scum from the 
top, and pass the broth through a fine cloth. 

This broth must be clear and of a. golden colour. Should 
it not, however, be so, it can easily be clarified with aboiit a 
quarter of a pound of uncooked fish (the flesh only) and the 
whites of two eggs whisked, &c., as in No. 2 broth ; and if 
wanting in colour, pour a few drops of caramel and stir 
well before serving. 

26. ANOTHER FISH BROTH. 

Prepare everything as in No. 25; but instead of using 
plain water, take the water in which any vegetables may 
have been cooked. (the more vegetables the better), and 
clarify in the same manner if necessary. 

27. FROG BROTH. 

I know well befoi'ehand the expressions of disgust that 
will be felt in reading the heading of this broth ; neverthe- 
less, do not be led astray by an uneducated palate or a 
prejudiced opinion. Frogs are considered a- delicacy in 
France, are quite as much appreciated in Italj' and in Ger- 
many, and are reared on a very large scale in America • 
therefore, why should they not be cultivated and eaten in 
Great Britain 1 

The mode of preparing this broth is as follows : — Put two 
ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan and fry to a nice brown ■ 
two carrots, two onions, three spring onions if in season, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 27 

and the head of half a celery, all shred finely; also two 
pounds of fresh frogs properly skinned and cleaned. When 
the whole is nicely brown pour three pints of boiling water 
over it ; salt and white pepper to taste ; boU gently for forty 
minutes ; then pass the broth through a fine cloth, and serve 
with a few crodtons fried in butter. 

Whoever partakes of this broth will ask for it again. 

28. FROG PUR^E SOUP. 

Take the flesh of two pounds of frogs, dry nicely with a 
cloth ; roll the pieces into some flour and fry them slowly 
in a stewpan with two ounces of butter tiir well done; 
after which, pound them in a mortar, mixed with half a 
pint of BSchamel sauce ; then put the mixture into another 
stewpan ; dilute the puree with a quart of hot frog broth, 
stir occasionally, and boil for five or six minutes ; then pass 
it through a sieve and back again to the stewpan, with a 
little grated nutmeg ; salt and pepper to taste ; add more 
broth or water if required ; set it to the boil ; pour it into 
a soup-tureen with crotitons or quenelles, and serve. 

29. CRAYFISH BROTH. 

Brown in butter the same sort and quantity of vegetables 
as in No. 2 7. Meantime wash well in two waters thirty 
live crayfish ; place these in a saucepan with half a handful 
of parsley, two onions, the head of a celery, and two carrots, 
all shred fine ; pour enough cold water to cover the lot ; 
add a handful of salt ; cover the saucepan and boil fifteen 
minutes ; strain the water through a colander, and as soon 
as the crustaceans are cold take the meat out of the 
shells with your fingers ; place the meat from the claws 
and tails on a plate; pound the shells, with the inside 
residue, in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, 



2 8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and mix it with the fried vegetables; fry this for a few 
minutes longer; then pour three pints of boiling water 
over it ; season with salt and pepper ; stir and simmer 
gently for ten minutes j skim off the butter and place it on 
a plate apart ; pass the broth through a sieve and let it get 
cold; then pour it into the stevvpan and boil till reduced by 
one-third ; after which, strain it through a cloth into a soup- 
tureen, and serve with the meat off the claws and crayfish- 
tails, keeping the butter to season sauces when required.. 

30. VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Clean and scrape four carrots; peel six turnips, three 
leeks, three onions, and two small heads of celery; slice 
the lot in fours and sixes, and brown them in a stewpan 
with three ounces of fresh butter, first the onions and leeks, 
and afterwards the other vegetables; and when all are 
nicely coloured add about an ounce of sugar, half a pint 
of boiling water, and salt to taste. Cover the stewpan and 
let simmer for ten minutes; then pour in three pints of 
boiling water ; add a handful each of dry mushrooms and 
peas, which will give it a good flavdur, and boil again 
gently for half an hour ; then strain through a sieve and a 
cloth into a soup-tureen in which some croiitons have 
already been put ; and serve. 

This broth can also be clarified with the whites of three 
eggs whisked, &c., as usual ; and if preferred, the vegetables 
can also be served with the broth; in that case do not 
strain it. 

31. ANOTHER VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Boil for five minutes in plenty of salt water one dozen 

each of new carrots and turnips, four onions, six leeks 

and three heads of celery ; then strain through a colander 

and pour the vegetables into a stock-pot or large stewpan 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 29 

together with two pounds of dry peas; add salt, white 
pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste; also twelve cloves, 
three ounces of butter, and three quarts of boiling water. 
Let the contents boil till the peas are cooked ; then strain 
the broth through a sieve, and serve with slices of bread 
fried in butter. 

In this case, as in the previous number, vegetables can be 
added to the soup-tureen if liked. 

32. HERB SOUP. 

Blanch two lettuces, x>ne handful of sorrel, and a little 
chervil dried and shred ; place them in a stewpan with 
half a pint of broth ; simmer for a few minutes ; add one 
quart of broth, and boil for half an hour ; stir nicely ; add 
salt and pepper to taste ; pour into a soup-tureen with a 
few slices of bread, and serve. 

33. CLEAR ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Cut the green part of a bundle of fifty asparagus, not 
too large, into points ; boil them in salt water for twelve 
or fifteen minutes; strain through a colander, and pour 
them into a stewpan in which a quart of broth ha^ already 
been set near to the boil ; let the contents simmer for five 
minutes only ; add salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 

34. CABBAGE SOUP. 

After having cut a cabbage (savoy preferred) in quarters 
and washed it carefully in salt water, blanch it with the 
head of a celery, and let it get cold ; then put the pieces 
into a stewpan with a good slice of ham, a rasher of bacon, 
and one quart of broth ; boil for forty minutes ; then take 
the ham and bacon out, add one pint of broth if required ; 



39 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

salt and pepper to taste j boil, and pour it into a soup- 
tureen with some slices of bread. 

This soup can also be made "maigre" by substituting 
butter for ham and bacon, and water instead of broth ; in 
that case, soal^ the slices of bread with half a pint of boiling 
milk in the sbup-tureen before serving. 

35. CABBAGE SOUP, MILANAISE. 
Fry to a nice colour in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
butter, half an onion, half a carrot, and half a head of 
celery, all shred fine ; moisten the whole with a good broth, 
and boil for ten minutes ; pass this through a sieve ; pour 
the liquor back into the stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce, two small savoys cut in fours, after having 
been blanched and the water squeezed out of them ; also 
two rashers of bacon cut in dice, one sage-leaf, a little 
minced parsley, two quarts of broth, and a piece of bacon- 
lind cut in small dice. Let the contents boil for three- 
quarters of an hour; add one ounce of grated parmesan 
cheese ; salt and pepper to taste ; then pour all into a soup- 
tureen with some slices of bread, and serve with an ounce 
of grated cheese on a plate apart. 

^6. TURNIP SOUP. 

Cut six turnips into dice, and brown them in a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter and a slice. of ham; after which, 
cook the contents well with a pint of good broth and two 
spoonfuls of tomato sauce ; boil till done. Then take the ham 
out, and skim off all the fat. Meantime have ready in a 
soup-tureen half a dozen slices of bread soaked in one quart- 
of good boiling broth, a handful each of green peas and 
asparagus-points (properly cooked apart) ; salt and pepper' 
to taste ; then pour the turnips with it, mix well, and serve^ 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 31 

37. TURNIP PURINE SOUP. 

Put eight turnips cut in quarters into a stewpam with 
two spring onions, two heads of celery sliced, two ounces 
of' fresh butter, half a pint of chicken gravy, one pint of 
white haricot beans ; salt and pepper to taste ; simmer 
and stir gently for a few minutes, without browning the 
contents ; then pour one quart of veal broth over, and boil 
gently for an hour and a half; pass the vegetables through 
a sieve by rubbing with a wooden spoon ; return the purte 
to the stewpan together with the remainder of the broth ; 
stir well in order to dilute the puree ; add another quart 
of white broth ; stir again ; add a piece of sugar the size of 
a walnut ; skim off the fat ; boil it for another half-hour ; 
give it an occasional stir to prevent burning; then pour it 
into a soup-tureen with a few crolltons, and serve. 

38. LEEK SOUP. 

Cut six leeks an inch and a half long and sHced into 
fours ; fry them in a stewpan with one and a half ounce 
of butter till of a nice brown; then pour one quart of 
broth on it ; boil for fifteen minutes ; add one tablespoon- 
ful of gravy; salt and pepper to taste, and serve with 
croutons. This soup can also be made " maigre " by using 
water instead of broth ; in that case add two ounces of 
butter before serving. 

39, MANOR-HOUSE SOUP. 

Put into a stewpan half a pint each of fresh shelled 
peas, French beans, and haricot beans, the red part of a 
carrot, one head of celery, one turnip, and two leeks, all 
cut in the form of almonds ; also twelve shalots, the heart 
of a small cabbage cut in four, the hearts of two small 



32 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lettuces cut in halves, a few leaves of sorrel, a little chervil, 
an ounce of sugar, and grated nutmeg ; salt and pepper to 
taste ; add two quarts of good broth ; Boil for three-quarters 
of an hour; pour the contents into a soup tureen with a 
few slices of bread, and serve. 

Jfote. — It is advisable, whenever a soup is made of dif- 
ferent kinds of vegetables, to add a piece of sugar the size 
of two walnuts in order to remove the sour taste from the 
broth which is invariably given by vegetables. 

40. GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Boil in plenty of salt water two pounds of fresh shelled 
peas (the larger the better) ; meantime blanch apart the 
hearts of two lettuces cut in quarters and a few leaves of 
sorrel ; dry well and place these in a stewpan with half a 
pint of gravy ; simmer till the lettuces are nicely glazed and 
the gravy nearly reduced ; then add three pints of good 
broth, and set it to the boil. When the peas are properly 
done strain the water through a colander ; throw the peas 
into the stewpan with the broth; add a small piece of 
sugar ; skim, set to the boil, and serve with croutons fried 
in butter. 

41. NEW CARROT SOUP. 

Cut in dice twelve fresh can-ots; blanch them in the 
usual way, strain the water through a colander, and let 
them cool ; meantime pour one quart of good broth into 
a stewpan with a piece of sugar ; set it to the boil ; and 
when the carrots are quite cold add them to the broth, 
together with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg to 
taste ; boil till the carrots are done, and serve with a few 
slices of bread fried in butter. 

This soup can also be made "maigre;" in that case, boir 
the carrots with half milk, half water, and add two ounces 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 33 

of butter before serving. This broth is very refreshing, 
and strongly recommended to persons suffering with jaun- 
dice, having cured the writer when a boy. 



42. LETTUCE SOUP. 

Blanch in the usual way six or eight lettuces ; dip them 
afterwards in cold water ; press and get them quite dry ; 
put each separately into a saufr6-pan in which has already 
been placed a slice of ham, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, 
half an onion with a clove stuck in it, and half a carrot 
sliced ; moisten the contents with a good broth ; cover the 
saute-pan and let simmer till the lettuces are nicely glazed ; 
then add one quart of broth ; boil till done ; take the 
lettuces out with a flat strainer, cut them in halves, place 
in a soup-tureen, strain the broth jsver, and serve with 
-croutons. 

Half a pint of chicken broth, if handy, -will greatly im- 
prove this soup. 

43. STUFFED LETTUCE SOUP. 

Blanch the hearts of twelve lettuces cut in halves ; dip 
them in cold water and squeeze them well j place after- 
wards these lettuces separately on a board ; lay on each a 
spoonful of stuffing composed of quenelles of chicken with 
a little chervil minced fine. Fold the lettuces in oblong 
shape, so as to enclose the stuffing ; transfer them one by 
one into a stewpan already containing half a pint of gravy, 
a slice of ham, and vegetables, as in No. 42. Simmer 
gently for a few minutes; then add one pint of chicken 
broth ; let it boil for fifteen or twenty minutes ; place the 
lettuces one by one into a soup-tureen ; pour the gravy over, 
after having strained itj together with one quart of boiling 
broth properly seasoned, and serve. 

c 



34 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

44. CLEAR SORREL SOUP. 

Clean and shred about two pounds of sorrel, the hearts of 
two lettuces, and a little chervil ; fry the lot in a stewpan 
with two ounces of clarified butter, and pour over it a quart 
of boiling broth, with a piece of sugkr ; salt and pepper to 
taste; let boil for twenty minutes; skim, pour it into a 
soup-tureen, and serve with croutons fried in butter. 

In order to make this soup " maigre," after having added 
water instead of broth, take the yolks of four eggs, whisk 
them well into a basin ; then add half a pint of the boiling 
soup into it ; stir ; pour another half-pint of broth ; keep 
stirring ; and just before serving pour this mixture into the 
stewpan with two ounces of butter ; mix well ; set near to 
the boil, and serve as No. 43. 

45. THICK SORREL SOUP. 

Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin with an ounco 
of fresh butter and half a pint of hot broth ; whisk these 
■well and pass it through a sieve; after which, pour it 
gradually into a stew-pan in which a purde of sorrel and 
other vegetables, as in No. 44, has already been made and 
diluted in a quart of boiling broth ; stir with a wooden 
spoon, in order to mix the contents well together; let it 
come as near as possible to the boil ; add an ounce of butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg to taste ; pour it 
into a soup-tureen, and serve with crofitons. 

46. ENDIVE SOUP. 

Blanch about one pound of endive ; dry, shred, and fry it 
in a stewpan, with an ounce of fresh, butter ; add one quart 
of broth, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Meantime 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 35 

whisk the yolks of four eggs with half a pint of the hot 
broth, and pour it into the stewpan ; mix this well ; add 
two spoonsful of brown sauce (No. 151) ; salt and pepper to 
taste, and vfhen nearly boiling serve with either quenelles 
of chicken or croutons. 



47. CLERMONT SOUP. 

Slice six or eight onions, and brown in a stewpan with 
two ounces of clarified butter; take them out, dry them 
properly with a cloth, and pour into another stewpan 
with a quart of good broth; boil for fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; then add a little pounded marjoram ; salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve with crodtons on a plate apart. 



48. POTATO AND CHERVIL PURJ^E SOUP. 

Peel and cut in quarters six large potatoes ; boil them in 
salt water for five or six minutes, in order to remove all 
sourness ; strain the water ; pour the potatoes into a stew- 
pan with one quart of broth, two leeks, and half a head of 
celery ; boil till the potatoes are quite done j then pass the 
whole through a sieve; return the puree to the stewpan, 
with the remainder of the broth ; add some more if re- 
quired ; also a little grated nutmeg, half a pint of cream, 
an ounce of fresh butter, and a little blanched chervil 
chopped very fine; set the stewpan on the fire, stir the 
contents well, in order to dilute and mix the purfe properly 
with the last-named ingredients ; and when near the boil 
pour it in a soup-tureen, and serve with crolltons on a plate 
apart. 

This soup can be made cheaper by substituting plain 
water igr broth and milk instead of cream. 



36 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

49. CHANTILLY SOUP. 

' Take one quai-t of lentils ; boil them in salt water till 
well done ; strain the water and pass the Jentils through a 
sieve by rubbing; put the pur^e back to the stewpan; add 
in proportion- one-third of chicken pur6e to one quart and 
a half of good broth, and set to the boil ; stir occasionally 
to prevent burning, and serve with croutons or quenelles 
of chicken. 

Note. — Lentils must be washed and soTiked for at least 
four hours previous to cooking. 

50. GREEN PEA PURINE SOUP. 

Boil three pints of green peas in plenty of salt water ; 
meantime fry in a stewpan, with one ounce and a half 
of butter', one carrot, half an onion, half a head of celery, 
and two leeks, all shred fine, as well as a slice of ham. 
When these items are nicely browned add one quart of 
broth, and let the contents boil for half an hour. 

When the peas are properly cooked strain the water and 
rub the peas through a sieve in the usual way ; strain also 
the broth through a fine sieve or cloth, mix the pur^e with 
it in the stewpan, boil and simmer for a few minutes ; 
then add a piece of sugar and salt to taste. Skim, and 
serve with small crofttons fried in butter. 

If dry peas are used, soak them in water the previous 
night. This soup can be made with water instead of broth, 
and either can be iraprovedby adding two ounces of cooked 
rice instead of croiitons. 

51. CHESNUT PURINE SOUP. 

Peel the first skin off about fifty chesnuts and put them 
in a stewpan with enough boiling water to cover the lot • 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 37 

boil for five or six minutes ; strain the water through, a 
colander ; take off the second skin and put the chesnuts 
in the stewpan with one quart and a half of good broth, 
one bay-leaf, two cloves, and a slice of ham ; boil these 
for twenty minutes ; strain the broth through a colander 
into a basin ; throw away the bay-leaf and. cloves ; place 
the ham with half of the chesnuts apart, and keep hot the 
other half } pound them through a sieve and put the purde 
back in the stewpan with the broth ; dilute the pur^e well ; 
boil and stir to prevent burning ; add salt to taste, with 
a little grated nutmeg ; and after a few minutes' boiling 
pour it into a soup-tureen in which the other half of the 
chesnuts, as well as the ham cut in small dice, have already 
been deposited, and serve with a few croiitons fried in 
butter on a plate apart. 

62. LENTIL PURJ^E SOUP. 

Put two pounds of properly soaked lentils into a stewpan , 
two tablespoonfuls of salt, a small carrot, one onion, one 
head of celery, two leeks, and two quarts of water; boil 
gently till the lentils are done, gradually adding during the 
boiling three gills of cold water to swell the lentils and 
accelerate their cooking; then strain the water through a 
colander ; take the vegetables out and pass the lentils only 
through a sieve, by rubbing in the usual way with a wooden 
spoon; moisten now and then with a little hot broth to 
facilitate the passing of the puree. When this is done, 
return it to the stewpan ; stir well in pouring gradually 
three pints of boiling broth ; let simmer for about twenty 
minutes, giving it an occasional stir to prevent burning; 
then skim, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve with 
croiitons fried in butter. 

This soup can also be made "maigre" by using the•^vater 



38 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in which the lentils were cooked, instead of broth, and by 
adding two ounces of butter before serving. 

53. WHITE HARICOT BEANS PUR]fiE SOUP. 

Prepare this puree in the same manner as the lentils or 
green peas ; but take care not to cook the beans too much, 
and before pouring the pur^e into the soup-tureen melt an 
ounce of fresh butter with it, and serve with small cro<itons. 

54. MODENA SOUP. 

Blanch one pound of spinach; dry, shred, and fry it in 
a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter ; salt to taste, 
and stir till nicely glazed ; then let it get cold ; after which, 
add two eggs and a little grated nutmeg, well beaten to- 
gether ; pour the lot into a quart of boiling broth ; cover 
the stewpan with a hot lid, put a shovelful of embers 
on the top of it, and draw by the side of the fire for a few 
minutes, during which time the eggs will forpi a kind of 
smooth crust at the top of the broth ; then pour it into 
a soup-tureen with crolitons fried in butter, and serve. 

55. TRIPE SOUP MILANAISE. 

Put two pounds of cooked calf's tripe in a saucepan, 
with three quarts of boiling water ; simmer for ten minutes, 
and immerse it in cold water ; after a few minutes drain 
and wipe it with a cloth, then shred it an inch and a half 
long by a quarter of an inch thick. Meanwhile put in a 
stewpan one ounce and a half of butter, with the same 
quantity of fat bacon cut in small dice, and fry a shred 
onion to a nice brown colour with it ; then add the shred 
tripe and fry five minutes longer; after which moisten 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 39 

with three pints of broth; simmer gently for two hours } 
then add a few sprigs of parsley, half a head of celerj', 
a carrot slit in four, and two leaves of sage, all tied 
together ; simmer again for another hour ; then skim off 
the fat, throw away the bouquet, season with salt and 
pepper ; pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with croltons 
and grated cheese on a plate apart, 

56. SOUP A LA ROMAINE. 

Melt three ounces of fresh beef marrow in a small 
stewpan and pass it through a fine strainer into a basin : 
break two eggs, beat and mix well with the marrow ; then 
add five ounces of bread crumbs which must have soaked 
in a pint of broth for at least half an hour ; season with 
salt and grated nutmeg to taste ; mix the lot well together, 
and pour it in a stewpan on the fire to simmer till dry, 
taking care to stir it the while ; then sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one of grated cheese ; stir and mix 
well for two minutes longer, then turn it over on a dish 
and let it cool ; when cold, turn the compound into small 
balls, hazelnut size, put them in a quart of boiling broth 
to poach five minutes ; then pour the contents into a soup- 
tureen and serve. 

Note. — Butter can be substituted for marrow. 



57. SOUP A LA VENITIENNE. 

Put in a stewpaji the yolks of six eggs with a few drops 
of lemon juice, and add gradually a quart of cold broth 
over it, beating the contents meanwhile with a whisk ; 
then let it boil, giving it an occasional stir, and when 
near ebullition season with salt and pepper ; pour it into 
a soup-tureen with a few slices of bread, and serve. 



40 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

68. LOMBARDO SOUP. 

Take half a pound of chicken stuffing (see Stuffing), 
divide it into three equal parts, flatten each surface with 
a knife and lay smooth on each separate part, first, two 
tablepoonfuls of BSchamel sauce ; second, four tablespoon- 
fuls of green peas purde; and on the third, two table- 
spoonfuls of crayfish or lobster butter, previously mixed 
with the yolk of an egg well whisked, having by this 
means three different colours, white, green, and yellow. 
Meanwhile have three pints of good broth in a stewpan 
boiling and with a teaspoon form the three compounds 
in as many little quenelles as there will be teaspoon- 
fuls; throw them in the boiling broth to poach five 
minutes by a slow ebullition, then pour into a soup- 
tureen which already contains two dozen asparagus-points 
and three tablespoonfuls of green peas separately cooked 
in salt water, as well as three spoonfuls of croutons fried 
in crayfish or lobster butter, the tails of about a dozen 
crayfish, or the tail of half a small lobster cut in very 
small dice, a gill of sherry ; and serve. 

59. ROSSINI SOUP. 

Clean and dress four quails and cook them in a stewpan 
with a pint of game broth, or better still, game gravy ; let 
them get cold In their own liquor ; after which, bone and 
cut them in small fillets, put them in a soup-tureen with a 
shred carrot and a few chickens' kidneys previously fried 
and browned in butter, as well as half a dozen button 
champignons and same number of truffles cut in the shipe 
of small olives. Meanwhile have a little game forcemeat 
(No. 273) diluted with a quart of boiling broth ready, pour 
it into the soup-tureen, properly seasoned, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 41 



60. EGG SOUP. 

Whisk eight eggs and mix it well with a pint of cold 
broth;, then put the liquor into a bain-marie* on a good 
fire ; boil till the eggs are hard ; then take the compound 
out with a spoon, and place it in a soup-tureen in whicTi 
some slices of bread are already soaking in a quart of 
boiling broth nicely coloured, and serve. 

61. A LA REINE PUR^E SOUP. 

Boil a young turkey or two nice chickens in three quarts 
of white broth ; when well cooked skim and remove the 
fat from the birds ; cut all the meat off from the bones and 
.sinews, mince and pound it well in a mortar ; put the puree 
in a stewpan with a pint of Blanquette sauce (No 178), 
dUute the contents with half a pint of white broth, and 
pass it through a fine sieve into the stewpan again ; 
boil, and stir. Add a pint of Blanquette sauce if too 
thin, or white stock if too thick. Season with salt and' 
pepper, mix well together by stirring with a wooden spoon 
on the fire, let simmer for five or six minutes, then pour 
it into a soup-tureen with or without three spoonfuls of 
well-cooked rice or crofttons fried in butter, and serve. 

62, ARTOIS SOUP. 

Make a puree of green peas (No. 50) ; meanwhile fry in 
a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, a handful of crodtons 
and about two ounces of pickled ox-tongue cut in small 
dice ; mix these with the puree when made, boil, stir, and 
serve. 

* A saucepan put into a krge vessel or a luvger saucepan with boiling 
water iu it. 



42 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

63. NAVARIN SOUP. 

Make a pur^e of green peas as described above ; pour it 
into a soup-tureen with one dozen small poached quenelles 
of pheasant, one- dozen pieces of eels boned and fried in 
butter, the tails of twenty crayfish, and two ounces of 
green peas cooked in salt water, and serve. 

This is one of the most delicious and best soups that 
can be put on the table, but it is also one' of the most 
expensive. 

64. GAME OR CHICKEN FUR^E SOUP. 

Cook all the remnants of game or chicken that may be 
had in a quart of broth, with vegetables, in proportion, as 
in other soups; when well done strain the broth into a 
basin, scrape all the meat from the bones, and pound it 
in a mortfir with three spoonfuls of cooked rice; put the 
purde into a stewpan and dilute it with the broth just 
made; after which, pass the lot through a fine sieve; return 
it to the stewpan ; add, if required, some more broth, 
season with salt and pepper, boil, and pour it into a soup- 
ture^n with croutons fried in butter. 

65. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Bone and blanch for ten minutes the half of a calf's 
head (which must be fresh and young) ; put it in a lar^e 
stewpan or stock-pot with a good slice of ham cut in dice, 
about two pounds. of leg of veal, two carrots, two turnips, 
two leeks, half a head of celery, an onion with two cloves 
stuck in it, two shalots and a " bouquet garni," as well as 
a bay-leaf ; add three quarts of cold broth and boil. Skim 
properly, and boil for about two hours, or until the calf's 
head is well cooked and made tender; then strain the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 43 

broth into a stewpan, put the calf's head apart on a dish, 
and let the broth boil. Meantime brown two ounces of 
flour with one ounce of butter in a small stewpan ; stir 
well with a wooden spoon,- and when of a dark-brown 
colour pour gradually over it a quart of the boiling broth, 
stirring the while ; and when properly mixed pour it back 
with the other broth, stir it well, and boU for a few 
minutes longer ; skim off all the fat and scum ; add two 
glasses of sherry, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper 
to taste. Cut part of the calf's head into small dice, put 
these into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. 

This soup is also made clear; in that case no flour is 
needed. In other respects, proceed as above ; but especial 
care should be paid to the clarifying of the broth before 
serving. 

66. OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Out at the different joints two ox-tails, go that the pieces 
are as nearly as possible of the same size ; soak them after- 
wards in cold salt water for about an hour or two to remove 
the blood, then wipe the pieces with a cloth and fry them 
in a stewpan with two ounces of butter to a nice brown ; 
after which, add two quarts of stock, an onion with two 
cloves, and a "bouquet garni." JBoil, skim, and simmer 
for three or four hours, or until the pieces of ox-tail 
are well cooked. Meantime cut a carrot and a turnip 
in small dice, shred an onion very fine, fry these in a 
stewpan with one ounce of butter till nicely browned, then 
moisten with a little broth, and simmer till well done. 
When the pieces of ox-tail are properly cooked skim off 
the fat, and pour the meat and broth into the soup-tureen 
with the vegetables cooked apart. This can also be made 
thick by adding flour prepared in the same way as mock 
turtle (No. 65). 



44 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

67. HARE SOUP A LA SUSINOISE. 

Cut in dice of medium size the fillet as well as the most 
fleshy and tender part of a hare, cook it in a quart of good 
broth, and when done strain the broth through a fine sieve ; 
put it back into the stewpan ; add more broth, if required, 
and boil. Meantime put the pieces of hare into a soup- 
tureen with four spoonfuls of big haricot beans, one turnip, 
one carrot, the heart of a small cabbage, and half a head 
of celery all shred fine, well cooked, and soaked in game 
gravy ; pour the boiling broth over, and serve. 

68. HARE SOUP (ENGLISH STYLE). 

Out in small parts the half of a hare ; fry the pieces in a 
stewpan with three ounces of fat bacon cut in dice, and 
the same quantity of butter; when the pieces of hare are 
browned let them get cold in the stewpan ; then add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, half a bottle of claret, one quart of 
broth, a small ." bouquet garni," one dozen small button 
mushrooms, an onion, a little cayenne, two cloves, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. Boil, skim, and simmer 
for about an hour; after which, take the pieces of hare out, 
bone them, put the meat back into a clean stewpan with 
a dozen small quenelles of chicken ; strain the broth in 
which the hare was cooked over the meat and quenelles, 
add some more hot broth if required, boil, and serve. 

69. RICE QUENELLES SOUP. 

Prepare a good risotto (see Risotto) with four ounces of 
rice ; lay it on a dish to get cold. Meanwhile take half a 
pound -of chicken breast or lean fillet of veal and two ounces 
of either chicken or calf's liver; hash this fine and brown it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD. COOKERY. 45 

well in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter ; then pound 
it in a mortar with the risotto j mix the contents well 
together with three whisked eggs, a little grated nutmeg, 
and salt to taste; pass the lot through a sieve into an 
earthenware pan, moisten with a little boiling broth or 
water, stir till nicely soft and firm; if too thick add a 
little bechamel, or if too clear the yolks of a few eggs ; mix 
well ; then take a teaspoon in each hand, and with them 
shape the compound into small quenelles, put them in a 
buttered saute-pan, and ten minutes before serving pour 
over them a quart of boiling broth, boil for six or eight 
minutes before pouring it into a soup-tureen, and serve. 

70. VEGETABLE QUENELLES SOUP, 

Boil three pints of green peas in plenty of salt water and 
a little mint ; when well cooked strain the water, put the 
peas in a stewpan, and mix them well with an ounce of 
fresh butter, a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, a little grated 
cheese and nutmeg, and, salt to taste. Let it get cold ; then 
proceed to make a dozen quenelles as in No. 69, boil these 
in the same way, and serve. 

By the same process, quenelles can be made with lentils, 
white haricot beans, and carrots. 

7L POTATO QUENELLES SOUP. 

Pound in a mortar six ounces of cold potato puree with 
the boned meat of half a cooked fowl ; add salt to taste, a 
little grated cheese and nutmeg, two eggs, and the yolks of 
two more ; mix these well together, and pass it through 
a sieve. Having thus a thick puiee, turn it into small 
quenelles, poach these in a quart of boiling broth for 
fifteen minutes, and serve. 



46 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



72. GAME OR CHICKEN QUENELLES SOUP. 

These quenelles are prepared with either game or fowl 
stuffing (see Stuffing), and when made, boil them, as above 
in a quart of good broth, and serve. 



73. VENITLAN QUENELLES SOUP. 

Brown in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a 
similat quantity of flour, then add one ounce of grated 
cheese and a gill of good broth; work the contents to a 
paste (on the fire) with a wooden spoon, then draw the 
stewpan away from the fire, add the yolks of six eggs, stir 
again till well mixed, and let it get cold ; then make the 
quenelles as before ; poach them in a quart of boiling broth 
for a quarter of an hour, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 

74. GERMAN QUENELLES SOUP. 

Proceed with these quenelles as in the foregoing, with a 
mixture of six ounces of calf's liver and three ounces of 
bacon cut in dice, the same quantity of bread crumbs, two 
ounces of butter, three eggs, and a gill of cream ; pound 
the lot well together in a mortar, and pass it through a 
sieve ; make the quenelles and boil them for fifteen minutes 
in a quart of broth, and serve. 

75. A LA REINE QUENELLES SOUP. 

These quenelles are made with a mixture of ten ounces 
of either the raw or cooked flesh of a fowl, two ounces of 
fresh butter, three of potato purte, and the yolks of three 
eggs ; the whole well pounded, seasoned, and mixed together, 
and poached in a quart of broth as before. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 47 

76. SWISS POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and boil in salt water one pound of potatoes; let 
them got cold, then pound them in a mortar with a piece 
of well-cooked meat hashed fine, with two ounces of fat 
bacon, one of butter, four eggs, a pinch of pounded 
aromatic herbs, and salt to taste ; when well pounded and 
mixed together, turn it into sinall balls the size of small 
nuts, drop them into a quart of boiling broth to poach for 
a few minutes, and serve. 

If preferred, these balls may be fried in butter and 
served in boiling broth. 

77. DAWN SOUP. 

Whisk the j'olks of ten eggs with two ounces of melted 
fresh butter, two spoonfuls of veloiit^ (No. 153), and a 
little grated nutmeg. Boil three pints of broth; when 
boiling, pour the half of it gradually over the egg mix- 
ture, taking care to stir the while. When properly mixed 
and diluted, pour the contents back with the other broth 
over the fire, still stirring ; and as soon as it boils, pass it 
through a sieve into a soup-tureen ; add a glass of Marsala 
or sherry, and serve with crofltons fried in butter. 

78. ONION SOUP A LA LYONNAISE. 

Peel four medium-sized onions, shred, and fry them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter till nicely browned ; then 
sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of flour ; continue frying and 
stirring for three minutes longer ; after wliich, pour three 
pints of boiling brotli, season with salt and pepper; stir 
and mix all well together, and simmer for ten minutes. 
In the meantime put eight dry or toasted slices of bread 



48 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

into a souptureen, with a handful of grated cheese at the 
top, pour the boiling soup over, sprinkle another handful of 
grated cheese over the broth, and place the sbup-tureen in 
a moderately heated oven for a few minutes before serving. 



79. ONION SOUP "MAIGRE." 

Proceed with the frying of the onions and flour as in the 
previous number. Substitute boiling water for broth, and 
simmer ten minutes ; whisk the yolks of four eggs in a 
basin; mix this well together with a pint of the boiling 
water, and just before serving pour it back into the stew- 
pan with one ounce and a half of butter; stir well, season 
with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and when 
nearly boiling pour it into a soup-tureen, garnished (as in 
No. 78) with bread and cheese, and put in the oven for a 
few minutes before serving. 



80, SHEEP'S HEAD SOUP. 

Take a sheep's head, split in two, pick the brains out and 
put them in a basin to steep in cold water ; soak the head 
in boiling water for five or ten minutes, wash it well, then 
put it in a stewpan with two quarts of cold water ; boil ; 
skim it very carefully, then add the same quantity of vege- 
tables and " bouquet garni " as in No. 2 broth ; simmer 
for about three hours, put the head on a hot dish, skim off 
the fat, strain the broth through a sieve, and serve with a 
few slices of bread and some of the vegetables, or better 
still, with some pearl barley or rice cooked in a muslin bag 
with the broth. 

The sheep's head is very good eaten hot with either a 
shai-p or tomato sauce. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 49 



PiEMAnKS ON Macaroni and Paste of all Descriptions, 
AND now TO Cook It. 

All pastes such as macaroni, vermicelli, spaghetti, taglia- 
telli, &c. &c., can be served with broth, and one can always 
obtain a good soup with them at a few minutes' notice. 
Likewise paste can also be served as a luxury by dififerent 
modes of preparation. 

The custom in Italy is that, whenever paste or rice is 
served as a made dish, it takes the place of soup. 

Although, as I have said before, paste can be served in 
many different ways, the mode of its cooking is always the 
same. Amongst the several sorts and qualities imported to 
this country, those from Naples and Genoa are the best ; 
and for boiling purposes (that is to say, for soups) those from- 
the latter place are preferred. The time taken for cooking 
varies according to the age and size of the paste j vermi- 
celli from Naples may be cooked in ' iive minutes, while 
Genoa macaroni (if old) may take half an hour. 

The only waj' of boiling paste is to plunge it in plenty 
of boiling salt water, and never on any account soak it 
beforehand. 

As a future guidance in boiling all kinds of paste, I will 
describe the proper mode of cooking, say, one pound of 
macaroni. Put three quarts of water and a tablespoonful 
of salt in an ordinary saucepan, on a good fire. When - 
the water boils fast, immerse the macaroni, and cover the 
saucepan for ten minutes ; after this take the lid off and 
try now and then if the macaroni is cooked by a slight 
pressure between finger and thumb ; as soon as it yields to 
the pinch, stop the boiling at once by pouring a pint of 
cold water into the saucepan ; strain the water througli a 



50 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

colander, as the macaroni is now cooked and ready for 
use. 

Note. — All descriptions of paste should be eaten as soon 
as cooked. 

81. PLAIN MACARONI SOUP. 

Cut in pieces of about two inches long half a pound cf 
macaroni cooked and strained as described in the previous 
remarks, and put it in a soup- tureen, then pour one quart 
of boiling broth over, and serve with grated cheese apart. 

Shred carrots, haricot beans, french beans, green peas, 
or any other vegetables can also be added in small 
quantities to this soup, provided they have been properly 
cooked in salt water and glazed in a stewpan with good 
gravy beforehand. 

The mode of preparing other kinds of plain paste soup 
is exactly the same as this. 



82. MACARONI SOUP (SARDE). 

Peel and slice an onion in small dice ; put these into a 
stewpan with one ounce and a half of butter and two 
ounces of leg of veal, also cut in small dice. Fry the lot 
to a nice brown colour, then add five ripe tomatoes, pre- 
viously peeled and passed through a sieve; moisten with 
three pints of good broth ; season with salt and pepper, 
and boil for half an hour. Meantime cook and strain as 
described one pound of macaroni ; put it in a stewpan with 
an ounce of fresh butter and one and a half of grated 
cheese ; toss this up well together on the fire ; then pour it 
into the other stewpan with the broth ; stir, and serve. 

This soup can be varied by using other kinds of paste,' 
and substituting chicken, mutton, or game for veal. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 51 



83. MACARONI SOUP (PALERMO). 

Put into a well buttered stewpan three slices of gammon, 
one pound of lean beef, the same quantity of knuckle, one 
fowl, the same quantity of vegetables as if for a soup, and 
half a pint of good broth ; set the lot to simmer, and when 
nicely browned all around add three pints of boiling broth ; 
simmer for one hour and a half, then take the meat and 
vegetables out, skim, clarify, and strain the broth through 
a fine cloth, and put it back again into the stewpan by the 
side of the fire.. Meantime cook one pound of macaroni 
as indicated, strain and cut it in pieces three inches long, 
put it into the broth, and boil slowly for a few minutes. 
Prepare and mix in another stewpan on the fire the yolks 
of four eggs whisked and passed through a sieve, with a 
gill of cream, half an ounce of grated cheese, one ounce of 
butter, salt and a little white pepper to tasta When the 
butter is melted and the lot well whisked together pour it 
over with the broth, give it a good stir so as to mix well 
the contents, and when near the boil pour into a soup- 
tureen, and serve with grated cheese on a plate apart. 



84. MACARONI SOUP A LA REINE. 

Pound in a mortar the breast of a chicken not too much 
cooked, mix it with a gill of supreme sauce (No. 188), pass it 
through a sieve, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Mean- 
while cook one pound of macaroni when drained, place 
it in a saut^-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, three 
or four spoonfuls of grated cheese, and as many of chicken 
gravy. Toss this up well in the saut6-pan, then add the 
hot purde of chicken to it, and toss again so as to mix the lot 
well together. When this is done and the compound made 



52 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

quite hot dress it up on a dish, and serve with one quart 
or three pints of boiling broth in a soup-tureen apart. 



85. MACARONI SOUP (MONGLAS). 

Cook and strain one pound of macaroni; put it in a 
saut^-pan with two ounces of fresh butter divided in five 
or six parts, and placed in as well as over the macaroni ; 
move the saiit^-pan over a slow fire, sprinkle half an ounce 
of grated cheese over it, then place in the centre the 
fleshy part of half a cooked fowl, properly boned and cut 
in small dice, also a few slices of truffles, two spoonfuls 
of foie-gras, a few mushrooms sliced fine and slightly 
seasoned with a veloute sauce (No. 153). When these are 
nicely warmed up turn it into a hot dish, and serve with 
three pints of boiling broth in a soup-tureen apart.. 



86. MACARONI SOUP (CARDINALE). 

Prepare (after cooking) the tails of twenty-four or thirty 
crayfish ; put them apart with a little hot broth in a small 
stewpan by the side of the fire, to keep them hot. Pound . 
the shells well and make a crayfish butter (No. 1 69) ; mix 
three spoonfuls of supreme sauce (No. 188) with two of pur^e 
of mushrooms. Cook and strain one pound of macaroni, 
put it in a saut^-pan with the two ounces of crayfish 
butter just made; add two ounces of grated cheese, the 
pur6e of mushrooms and supreme sauce, mix well together 
by tossing it up whilst over the fire, and when properly 
warmed dish it up on a hot dish ; then strain the crayfish 
tails and place them nicely one by one over the macaroni 
as a decorative garnish, and serve with three pints of 
boiling broth in a soup-tureen apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 53 

87. MACARONI SOUP (DOMINICAINE). 

Soak in lukewarm water for a few minutes about three 
ounces of dry mushrooms ; then drain and put them in a 
stewpan with one pint of fish broth, an onion, a carrot, 
a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of parsley. Simmer these 
for an hour on a slow fire, strain the broth and return it 
to the stewpan, save the mushrooms ; soak three ounces 
of bread crumbs in water, strain and press the water well 
out of it ; put the bread with the cooked mushrooms into 
the stewpan with the essence just strained ; let these simmer 
and dry ; stir, and when well reduced and the bread crumbs 
as well as the mushrooms are crisp, pass them through a 
sieve. In the meantime cook and strain one pound of 
macaroni, put it in a saut^-pan with a gill of olive-oil; add 
the bread crumbs and a little anchovy paste with it ; keep 
the saute-pan over the fire, stir the contents well, and 
when very hot pour it into a soup-tureen with three pints 
of boiling fish broth properly seasoned. 

This soup is thoroughly " maigre," and is generally served 
to Roman Catholics on fasting days. 

88. PLAIN MACARONI CHEESE. 

Cook and strain one pound of macaroni ; put two ounces 
of fresh butter into a stewpan, and when melted pour 
the macaroni over with three tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese ; toss it up till well iaixed and made hot ; season 
with white pepper onlj', turn it into a hot dish, and serve 
with a little grated cheese and nutmeg sprinkled on the 
top. 

89. MACARONI (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Put one pound of cooked and strained macaroni into a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, three spoonfuls of 



54 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tomato sauce, and as many of beef gravy ; toss up the lot 
on the fire so as to mix and warm it well together; then 
sprinkle two handfuls of grated cheese over it, season with 
a little white pepper, toss up again and turn it into a hot 
dish, sprinkle again a little grated cheese on the top, with 
three tablespoonfuls of good beef gravy, and serve. 



90. MACARONI (CITIZEN STYLE). 

Boil one pound and a half of macaroni ; strain, and put 
it in a stewpan on the fire with two ounces of butter, 
one pint of good broth ; salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
it ; sprinkle over two ounces of grated cheese, add a little 
more butter, toss it up gently, pour it into a hot dish, 
sprinkle a little more grated cheese and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of hot roast-beef gravy or brown sauce over it, 
and serve. 

91. MACARONI A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Cut one pound of leg of veal in thin slices of about six 
inches long by two wide, prepare about a quarter of a pound 
of veal or chicken stuffing (see Stuffing), and place it with 
a teaspoon in the centre of .each slice of veal ; roll the slices 
round so as to enclose the stuffing, flour these and put them 
in a sautd-pan with two ounces of clarified butter, together 
with a calf's brains properly blanched and sliced ; fry the 
lot to a nice coloui-, then moisten with half a pint of good 
broth or gravy, and simmer till cooked and tender. Mean- 
time break one pound of macaroni in short pieces, boil and 
strain in the usual way; put it in a stewpan with half a 
pint of good broth or gravy, simmer till nearly reduced ; 
then add a little butter,, two handfuls of grated cheese and 
a little grated nutmeg ; stir well, pour it into a hot dish 
with the veal and brains nicely and alternately arranged at 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 55 

the top ; sprinkle the remainder of the gravy out of the 
sautd-pan over it, and serve with grated cheese apart. 



92. MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Boil one pound of macaroni in the usual way for a quarter 
of an hour or so ; strain off the water ; return the macaroni 
into the saucepan with a pint of milk ; boil till the milk is 
absorbed, then add an ounce each of grated cheese and 
butter ; mix well with .the macaroni by shaking the sauce- 
pan and tossing it up. When well mixed pour it into a 
gratin-dish, with two ounces more of grated cheese sprinkled 
over it, as well as a little bread raspings, grated nutmeg, and 
an ounce of butter divided in five or six pieces. Put the 
gratin-dish in a well-heated oven till it has attained a nice 
golden colour and serve. in the gratin-dish. 

If preferred, the completion of the cooking of macaroni 
can be made in broth instead of milk. 

93. MACARONI (COUNTRY STYLE). 

Cut about two pounds of the round or shoulder of beef 
in three-inch dice j shred an onion and fry it in a frying- 
pan with an ounce of butter ; when the onion is of a nice 
yellow colour, add the pieces of- beef to it and brown them 
for &ve minutes ; after which, draw the pan away from the 
fire. Take a good-sized pie-dish and half a pound of un- 
cooked macaroni ; break this in short pieces and divide it 
in three parts ; lay one part at the bottom of the pie-dish, 
nicely buttered ; then put the half of the meat and onions 
on this layer, season well with gait and pepper ; make 
another layer of macaroni, place the remainder of the meat 
and onions on it, season as before, and cover these with 
the third part of macaroni ; moisten the lot with broth 
three-parts full, cover the pie-dish closely with a plain 



56 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

flour and water paste, or with another pie-dish turned 
over it, and put it in a well-heated oven for about an hour ; 
after which, remove the cover, sprinkle a little grated cheese 
over the top, and serve in the pie-dish. 

Note.^-The same thing can be . done with mutton or 
veal. 

94. MACARONI MILANAISE. 

Boil one pound of macaroni, strain, and cut it up in 
three-inch lengths, put it in a stewpan with three ounces 
of butter, four ounces of grated Gruyfere cheese, a little 
grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and half a pint 
of good cream ; set the stewpan over a moderate fire, toss 
up the whole well together until quite hot, then shake it 
up for a few minutes to make the cheese spin, and serve. 

95. TAGLIATELLI (HOUSEWIFE STYLE). 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the paste-board, make a 
well in the centre, break five eggs in it, add a teaspbonful 
of salt and about an ounce of butter, with enough lukewarm 
water to melt the salt, work these well together to a firm 
smooth paste, and finish it by pressing the paste from you 
with the palms of the hands. Then cut it into four pieces, 
and roll it with the rolling-pin to the thickness of about the 
sixteenth part of an inch, let it dry for a little while, then 
fold each piece in ribbons of about two inches wide, taking 
care to sprinkle a little flour between the folds ; cut these 
through crossways into shreds about the eighth of an inch, 
take them up gently with both hands, to loosen them and 
prevent their adhering to one another, spread them again 
on the paste-board, and when all the paste is shred in this 
way immerse them (a few at a time) in three quarts of boil- 
ing salt water ; stir, while you drop them in to prevent 
their getting lumpy, and after five or six minutes of sharp 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 57 

ebullition drain them well on a sieve ; put them afterwards 
in a stewpan with half a pint of broth, two ounces of butter, 
salt and pepper to taste; let them simmer for a few minutes ; 
then add three ounces of grated cheese, two or three spoon- 
fuls of good beef -gravy, and toss the contents whilst over 
the fire, so as to mix well together, and serve. 

96. TAGLIATELLI A LA CHASSEUR. 

Prepare a pound of tagliatelli as in No. 95, boil them 
in salt water for five minutes ; strain them on a sieve 
and put them in a stewpan on the fire with one pint of 
game broth, a little grated nutraeg, and a pinch of pepper ; 
simmer until the broth is reduced ; then add about two 
ounces of grated cheese, an ounce of butter, and two dozen 
small quenelles of game previously cooked in gravy ; toss 
the whole lightly over the fire until the cheese is well 
mixed with the tagliatelli, then pour the contents into a 
hot dish, sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of hot game gravy 
over the paste, and serve! 

Tagliatelli can be prepared and served in every respect 
like macaroni. 

96a. TAGLIATELLI A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare a pound of tagliatelli as described in No. 95. 
Pound a small clove of garlic, with three ounces of 
parmesan cheese and a sprig of green basil, in a mortar ; 
moisten these gradually with two tablespoonfuls of good 
salad-oil, and when well pounded put the contents in Sr 
saute- pan. 

Meanwhile have two ounces of dried mushrooms (cfepes) 
well soaked in boiling water; strain, dry and chop these 
very fine, and mix them with the pounded sauce. 

Boil and strain the tagliatelli in the usual way, and put 



58 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it in the saute-pan with the mixture on the fire, to which 
add two ounces of fresh butter ; toss the contents up till 
the sauce is properly melted and well mixed with the paste, 
then serve with some grated parraesan cheese apart. 



97, RAVIOLI A L'lTALIENNE. 

Ravioli is considered by the natives to be one of the 
best Italian-made dishes in existence ; and to give a fair 
idea of its repute as well as its national character, I can 
only compare it to the English Christmas plum-pudding. 
Its preparation, however, is not so expensive, neither can 
the making of it be considered difficult or complicated. 
Make a paste similar to the one for tagliatelli (No. 95), 
but add half a gill more of lukewarm water to it ; when 
the paste has been properly worked and rolled in four 
parts, nearly as thin as a sheet of paper, with the rolling- 
pin, place them apart on the board. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, and with a feather or soft brush moisten one 
sheet of paste with it, then lay on this (two inches apart) 
a teaspoonful of chicken force-meat (No. 271). When the 
sheet is covered in the manner directed with the forcemeat, 
lay over it one of the sheets of paste . and press this down 
with the thumb over the outer row of balls, then cut these 
out with a small fluted cutter into half -moon shape, and 
place them on a large dish, slightly sprinkled with flour. 
Proceed with the other two sheets of paste in the same way ; 
after which, let them dry on the dish for a couple of hours, 
then drop the lot gently in three quarts of boiling salt 
water, boil them on a brisk fire for ten minutes, then strain 
off the water and put the ravioH in a stewpan, in which a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter has already been melted 
to a golden colour ; add to it a pint of good broth, and let 
it boil for five or six minutes; after which, add two ounces 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 59 

of grated cheese, toss the stewpan gently in order to mix 
the cheese well -with the ravioli, without, however, breaking 
them. When properly mixed and the broth nicely reduced, 
pour them into a dish ; sprinkle a little more grated cheese 
and three spoonfuls of good hot- beef gravy over, and serve. 

In the same manner, ravioU can be made with veal or 
game forcemeat, as well as with fish ; in the latter case, a 
pur^e of spinach, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and an 
ounce of grated cheese must be added and well mixed with 
the fish. 

Tomato sauce added at the same time as the broth will 
also be an improvement. 

98. RAVIOLI A LA ROMAINE. 

Prepare five or six dozen ravioli in the same manner as 
in the previous number. Boil them in broth for fifteen 
minutes, then strain and put them in a stewpan containing 
about a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms, properly 
trimmed and cut into slices, with a similar quantity of 
cooked ox-tongue cut in small dice, half a pint of white 
wine, a gill each of Espagnole sauce and game essence. 
Boil on a brisk fire ; toss the stewpan, so as to mix and 
warm the contents well together ; and when the sauce is 
nearly reduced, add two ounces of grated cheese, toss the 
whole well over the fire, and serve. 

99, GNOCHETTI WITH BUTTER. 

Put a pint of water into a stewpan on the fire with two 
ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of 
pepper. When the contents boil draw the stewpan away 
from the fire, add gradually to it half a pound of semolina 
or ordinary sifted flour; stir the while with a wooden 
spoon till it has reached the consistency of a solid paste, 



6o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

then add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, together 
with three ounces of grated cheese ; mix these well with 
the paste by tossing it with the wooden spoon, then whisk 
the whites of the four eggs, already used, to a nice snowy 
froth, and mix it well with the paste ; turn this out of the 
stewpan, flatten it on a slab, cut it in small equal dice, and 
roll these into the shape of small filberts. Meanwhile 
boil one quart of broth, drop the balls of gnochetti in 
it, and let them simmer for twenty minutes, then drain 
and dry them. Butter the inside of an entree dish, divide 
two ounces of butter into small balls ; put a layer of 
gnochetti and sprinkle a little grated cheese, a few pieces of 
butter, and two tablespoonfuls of good beef gravy over it ; 
continue the layers of gnochetti, butter, grated cheese, and 
beef gravy to the end, finishing with grated cheese on the 
top; then put the dish in the oven for five minutes, and 
serve. 

100. POLENTA* A LA PIEDMONTAISE. 

Boil in a saucepan three pints of broth or water, to 
which a dessert-spoonful of salt must be added. When 
the broth ,boils take a strong wooden spoon in your 
right hand, or better still, the half of a broomstick made 
for that purpose, which must be about eighteen inches 
long, and with your left hand drop gradually one pound of 
polenta flour into the saucepan on the fire ; stir the while, 
to prevent the flour clotting ; let it boil for half an hour, 
stirring the paste almost constantly to prevent buriiing ; 
after which, sprinkle three ounces of. grated cheese over it ; 
stir the contents well, so as to mix the cheese with the 
polenta, which will now be firm and detach itself from the 
border of the pan ; pour the lot into a dish, melt a quarter 

* A flour made from Indian-corn, grown on a large scale and much 
used in Italy. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 61 

of a pound of butter in a frying-pan to a frothy heat^ 
pour it over the polenta, and serve. 

101. POLENTA A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Prepare a "polenta" as in the previous number; when 
nearly cooked add two ounces of fresh butter and stir well, 
in order to mix the polenta with the butter. Meanwhile 
set a well-buttered saute-pan on the fire, with half a dozen 
slices of fat bacon ; put on these a dozen small birds (such 
as larks, &c)., properly cleaned, and a couple of bay- 
leaves.. Fry the birds to a nice colour, then moisten with 
half a pint of good broth and a glass of white wine ; season 
with salt and pepper to taste ; cover the saut^-pan, and 
simmer very gently until the birds are well cooked, basting 
them and turning as often as required. 

When the polenta is done and the birds ready, dress the 
former on a dish spread with grated parmesan cheese, place 
the birds on the top, strain the gravy over, and serve. 

Note. — A few thin slices of truffles or fresh mush- 
rooms, cooked either in gravy or butter, will improve the 
" polenta." 

Eemakks on Rice. 

Eice, like paste, can be eaten with as much advantage 
in soups as in made dishes, and in either case will alwaj'S 
be found nourishing, appetising, and refreshing. Its cook- 
ing differs but slightly from paste, as rice can b& boiled in 
the soup with which it is intended to be served. It. can 
also be prepared in more than a hundred different ways, 
and eaten by all classes, from its simplest and cheapest 
mode of preparation to the most expensive and luxurious 
made dishes. Rice is good in almost «very soup, can be 
eaten with any meat, fish, or poultry, is made into various 



62 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

puddings, and served as a sweet with any kind of stewed 
friiit. The best rice to use is the Italian, the grain of 
which is short and plump. It can be distinguished from 
others by a slight grey tinge, and, although dearer than 
the Indian and Egyptian, is, nevertheless, cheaper than 
either, on account of its swelling propensity and nourishing 
properties, which are not possessed by others to the same 
extent. Never attempt to make a "risotto" with a long 
white-grained rice, as you will fail. 

102. PLAIN RICE AND BROTH. 

Pour three pints of good broth into a stewpan, and set it 
to the boil. Meantime wash in a basin, with" two or three 
different cold waters, a pint of rice; when the broth is 
on the boil throw the rice in, boil for about twenty 
minutes, season with salt and a little pepper, pour into 
a soup-tureen, and serve with grated cheese on a plate 
apart. 

Note. — Rice can also be cooked" in plain water, drained, 
and served with boiling broth, in which case it keeps 
clearer. 

103. RICE AND CABBAGE SOUP. 

Blanch in salt water for a few minutes the heart of a 
cabbage cut in eight parts; strain the water through a 
colander; press the cabbage, and put it back into the 
stewpan with three pints of cold broth, a small knuckle 
or ham-bone, and a quarter of a pound of rice, properly 
washed, as in No. 102 ; boil for twenty-five minutes, season 
to taste, take the bone or knuckle out, and pour the soup 
into a soup-tjireen. 

This soup can be made " maigre " by using water instead 
of broth; in which case add two ounces of butter a few 
minutes before serving. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 63 

104. RICE AND POTATO SOUP. 

Proceed with the potatoes as for cabbage, described in 
the previous number, but omit the knuckle or ham-bone. 



105. RICE AND VEGETABLE SOUP. 

All kinds of vegetables are good for this soup, but must 
first be blanched in boiling salt water for a few minutes 
and properly dried ; then fry them in a stewpan with 
butter ; soak them afterwards with good gravy in another 
stewpan, and boil till cooked. Meantime boil three pints 
of broth J throw half a pint of rice into it, and after 
twenty minutes of ebullition mix with the vegetables and 
gravy, season with salt and pepper, stir, pour into a soup- 
tureen, and serve with a little grated cheese on a plate 
apart. 

Macaroni or any other paste can be added to either of 
the above soups, provided it has been previously cooked 
apart. 

106. MINESTRONE. 

The minestrone is a real Italian national soup. It is 
composed of a mixture of vegetables and rice, is very much 
appreciated and considered as a delicacy by the natives. 

Vegetables used for this soup should be fresh and tender, 
and the following are generally the most in request. Take 
the heart of a small cabbage, one carrot, four potatoes, 
three leeks, and half a head of celery; shred very fine; 
blanch these separately; strain and fry them in two 
ounces of butter with half a pint of kidney beans, half a 
pint of green peas, and a dozen French beans cut in small 
diamonds ; then take one ounce of fat bacon, mash with a 
knife-blade the clove of a garlic, and mix it with the bacon, 



64 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOJCERY. 

which must ,be minced as fine as a paste ; put it into a 
stewpan with three pints of broth, ■ boil it with all the 
vegetables, add one pint of well-washed rice, a slice of 
bacon-rind cut in small dice, and two mashed fresli 
tomatoes. Boil for twenty-five minutes, season with salt 
and pepper, stir well, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and 
serve with two ounces of grated cheese on a plate apart. 



107. RISOTTO* A LA PI^MONTAISE. , 

Put three pints of good broth into a stewpan; when 
boiling throw in three-quarters of a pound of nice clean 
rice ; cook for twenty minutes on a good fire, giving it 
an occasional stir ; then add two ounces of grated cheese, 
the same quantity of fresh butter and truffles cut in very 
thin slices, a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 
mix well together, add a little gravy if too thick, and serve 
on a hot dish. 

108. RISOTTO MILANAISE. 
Slice an onion and fry it in a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter and a little beef marrow till of a nice brown colour ; 
dilute with a quart of broth ; boil it, strain the broth through 
a sieve into the stewpan again, and. season with salt and 
pepper; boil it; then add one pint of rice and a small 
pinch of saffron ; cook on a good fire for twenty minutes, 
often stirring the contents with a wooden spoon to prevent 
burning ; sprinkle two handfuls of grated cheese over it, 
with a gill of white dry wine; stir and mix well together; 
boil for another two or three minutes, then draw from the 
fire, and just before serving add one ounce of fresh butter, 
divided in five or six parts and put about in the stewpan ; 
cover with the lid for two or three minutes, then pour it 

* Eisotto is the Italian name for all made rice-dishes. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 65 

into a hot dish with a little more grated cheese sprinkled 
on the top, and serve. 



109. RISOTTO (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Proceed as above, but omit the saffron ; add four table- 
spoonfuls of tomato sauce at the same time as the cheese, 
and serve after having given it a good stirring. 

110. ANOTHER RISOTTO (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Shred fine the red part of a carrot and an onion, cut in 
small dice a rasher of bacon, fry these in a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter till of a nice brown colour ; then add 
the giblets and combs of two fowls chopped fine, fry for a 
few minutes longer, then moisten with one quart of broth, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, and add a small pinch 
of safiron ; boil it on a good fire ; when boiling pour in 
one pint of clean rice ; stir and boil fast till nearly cooked, 
then add four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce and six of 
grated cheese, stir the contents well together, add half a 
dozen mushrooms and one truiHe cut in thin slices, stir 
again to prevent burning, cook for two minutes longer, 
pour it into a hot dish with a little more grated cheese 
sprinkled on the top and one ounce of butter divided in 
five or six pieces and placed at equal distances about the 
rice ; then place the dish in a moderately heated oven 
for two minutes, and serve. 

HI. RISOTTO A LA CHARTREUSE. 

Prepare a broth of frogs or of crayfish, and proceed as 
in the first risotto (Italian style) ; when cooked, pour the 
rice into a hot dish with pieces of frog's meat, boned and 
cut in dice, or the crayfish-tails properly mixed with it, 
as well as a few slices of trufiles. 

£ 



66 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

112. RISOTTO (SPANISH STYLE). 
Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter 
with an onion shred fine ; brown this nicely ; then add 
four tomatoes cut in small slices, previously peeled, together 
with half a pound of ham cut in small dice ; fry the lot for 
a few minutes ; then ' pour over one quart of good broth 
and one pint of rice; boil on a good fire and cover the 
stewpan for ten- minutes; after which, add half a pint of 
green peas and the same quantity of asparagus, cut in 
points and blanched in the usual way ; boil for fifteen 
minutes longer, giving it an occasional stir to prevent 
burning, and serve with grated cheese on a plate apart, as 
well as some boiling broth in a soup- tureen, if wished for. 

113. RISOTTO A LA PORTUGAISE. 

Cook the rice apart in water, strain, and put it into a 
soup-tureen ; pour over a quart of good boiling broth, 
mixed with three spoonfuls of tomato sauce and the breast" 
of a cooked chicken cut in small dice ; and serve with 
grated cheese on a plate. apart. 

114. RISOTTO A LA TURQUE. 

Put three ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan with a 
few slices of fat bacon cut in small dice and an onion split 
across ; fry till the onion has taken a brown, when it must 
be taken out, and a nice tender fowl cut in quarters put 
in its place ; season well with salt ; cover the stewpan and 
let it simmer for forty minutes, giving it an occasional 
stir ; then moisten it with three pints of broth, and when 
boiling add one pound of rice; stir well, replace the lid, 
and boil slowly for half an hour ; after which, dress it on a 
hot dish, and serve with grated cheese on a plate apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 67 

115. RISOTTO A LA PONIATOWSKY. 

Fry in a stewpan witli an ounce of butter a quarter of a 
pound of gammon cut in small slices ; then add one pint 
of rice and three pints of broth ; boil on a brisk fire for 
twenty-five minutes an4 stir often ; take the slices of bacon 
out, add two dozen oysters .with two spoonfuls of their 
liquor to it, mix well together, melt an ounce of butter in 
a frying-pan apart, pour the rice in a hot dish and the 
melted butter over it ; then serve with a quart of boiling 
broth in a soup-tureen apart, if desired. 

116. CREAM RICE A LA REALE. 
Put a fowl and half a knuckle of veal into a stewpan 
with a carrot ; add half an onion, the quarter of a celery- 
head, one leek, and two quarts of broth ; boil for an hour 
and a half, take the meat out, skim and strain the broth 
through a fine cloth ; pour the half of it into a stewpan 
of medium size with half a pound of rice, washed in two 
or three different waters and blanched apart for a few 
minutes ; let it boil for an hour, stir occasionally with a 
wooden spoon ; after which, pour in the remainder of the 
broth; mix well, and pass it through a wire sieve, then 
through a tammy and back into the stewpan on a good fire 
till nearly boiling. Meanwhile mix in a basin three spoon- 
fuls of chicken purte with the same quantity of rice cream ; 
add gradually to it half a pint more of the cream, stirring 
the while ; then pour it back to the stewpan with the other 
rice cream, stir and mix' properly before serving with 
croiitons fried in butter. 

117. CREAM RICE A LA FRANpAISE. 
Proceed for this as in No. 116, but add to the vegetables 
before named a little parsley, which must be taken out 



68 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

when cooked ; and just before serving, add half a pint of 
good cream with an ounce of fresh butter ; mix all well 
together, and when nearly boiling pour it into a soup- 
tureen in which a few small quenelles of chicken, properly 
poached, have already been put. Stir, and serve. 

118. RICE CREAM A LA CHASSEUR. 

Roast a partridge, cut the meat in small dice, and pound 
it in a mortar ; put the bones and carcass in a quart of 
chicken broth, boil for, ten minutes, skim, and pass it 
through a fine cloth ; then put it back into the stewpan 
on the fire. When boiling, pour half a pound of rice into 
it and boil for an liour and a quarter ; after which, pass it 
through a fine wire sieve and tammy. Return the cream 
to the stewpan on the fire, then mix gradually the pur^e 
of partridge with it, boil it, give it an occasional stir, and 
serve with croiitons fried in butter. 



119. RICE CREAM WITH PHEASANT. 

Proceed for this as in the " R^ale," and then add six 
quenelles of pheasant, well poached, and serve. 

120. RICE AU GRATIN. 

Pour three pints of good broth into a stewpan, and set 
it on the fire. When boiling, throw in one pound of clean 
rice, and let it boil for twenty minutes, giving it an occa- 
sional stir; then season with salt and pepper, add a few 
allspice, sprinkle two ounces of grated cheese and. a gill of 
good gravy, mix the contents . well together, and pour it 
into a pie-dish, the inside of which must be wiell buttered. 
Sprinkle the top with a few bread-crumbs, making a hole 
in the centre with a spoon, fill it with chicken stufiing or 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 69 

financiere, place the pie-dish in a moderately heated oven 
till the top has taken a nice hrown colour and become 
crisp, and then serve with a little grated cheese on a plate 
apart, 

121. RISOTTO A LA m6NAG6RE OR HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Boil in a saucepan three pints of broth, throw in one 
pound of rice, boil for twenty minutes, stir occasionally, 
then add one ounce and a halt of grated cheese, the same 
quantity of butter, season in the usual way, pour a gill of 
hot gravy, mix the contents well together, add a few slices 
of truilfles or fresh mushrooms stewed in butter, pour it 
into a hot dish ; and serve with a little grated cheese on a 
plate apart. 

122. RICE WITH MILK. 

Pour three pints of milk into a saucepan, let it boil, 
throw in one pound of rice, a small piece of sugar, and 
a i)ay-leaf; boil for twenty minutes, stir in the usual 
way to prevent burning, and just before serving mix the 
yoke of an egg and a little grated nutmeg with it. 

123. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH AND RICE. 

This soup is as much recommended for its delicacy as 
for its excellence, and can be obtained in different ways ; 
but after long study, the following is, I believe, the best 
and easiest mode of all for its preparation : — 

Wash in several waters thirty-five or forty live cray- 
fish of medium size, put them in a saucepan with a handful 
of salt, a pinch of pepper, a bottle of dry white wine, 
a " bouquet garni," an onion, oaiTot, and half a head of 
celery all shred fine; moisten the lot with cold water, 



70 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cover the saucepan and boil on a good fire for about 
twenty minutes, then strain the broth into a stewpan, let it 
boil, and pour a quarter of a pound of clean rice into it, 
which must boil for about an hour. Meantime take the 
tails of the crayfish out of their shells with your fingers, 
put them apart on a plate, pound the shells and inside 
residue in a mortar with two ounces of butter, put the 
puree in a stewpan with three pints of good broth, salt 
and pepper to taste, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. 
After which, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return 
it to the stewpan, and set by the side of the fire to let 
the scum rise, when it must be skimmed off. When the 
rice is properly cooked, strain, and pour it into a mortar 
with the half of the crayfish-tails, pound the lot nicely, 
and add it to thicken the broth with the remainder of the 
crayfish ; boil it ; stir and mix well ; boil for about ten 
minutes; then pour it into a soup-tureen with a few 
queneUes of chicken or croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 
This soup can also be made with crawfish or lobster, 
but in neither will the delicacy and flavour of the above 
be found. 

124. RICE AND CHESNUTS. 

Peel and boil one pound of chesnuts as in No. 51. 
Meantime boil one poujid of rice in three pints of broth. 
When the chesnuts are cooked, strain and mix them well 
with the rice, salt and pepper to taste, add two ounces of 
grated cheese and one ounce of butter divided into four or 
five pieces, and spread on the rice, cover the stewpan for a 
few minutes, then sprinkle with a little grated nutmeg, 
pour it into a hot dish, and serve. 

This dish can be altered by cooking the rice with milk 
instead of broth, and by adding.half a pint of cream at the 
same time as the chesnuts. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 71 

125. RISOTTO (GENOA STYLE). 

Put a gill of fine olive-oil into a stewpan with a cai-rot, 
an onion, a little celery, and one clove of garlic, all minced 
very fine. Pry the lot till nicely browned, then add one 
pound of rice, previously blanched in salt water for a few 
minntes, and strained j fry and stir for five minutes longer, 
pour three pints of good broth over it, season with salt and 
pepper to taste, boil for ten minutes on a brisk lire, stir 
often to prevent burning, then add four tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce, or better still, three fresh tomatoes peeled 
and cut in small slices ; stir well, and boil for five minutes 
longer ; after .which, sprinkle over it two ounces of grated 
cheese and two tablespoonfuls of anchovy butter ; stir well, 
cover the stewpan ; draw it away from the fire, and after 
two or three minutes pour it into a hot dish and serve. 

I might go on with more recipes, but, after due con- 
sideration, I think the number already given will meet 
the general requirements. On the other hand, it is advis- 
able to give cooks and amateurs in gastronomy oppor- 
tunities of showing their ability and power of imagination 
in cooking fancy dishes of their own invention. 

126. PEARL BARLEY SOUP. 

Put in a saut6-pan one fowl and two pounds of leg of 
veal, together with two quarts and a half of broth and the 
usual sorts and quantity of vegetables as for a soup ; let it 
boil for forty minutes ; take the fowl and veal out, skim, 
and pass the broth through a fine cloth, return it to the 
saut^-pan with a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, stir 
occasionally with a wooden spoon to prevent the barley 
sticking together ; boil on a slow fire for five hours, then 
skim ofiE the scum that rises to the surface ; after which, 



72 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

add a piece of sugar; and just before serving, dilute jn a 
basin three tablespoon fuls of chicken pure6 with a pint of 
broth by stirring ; pour this afterwards in the saut6-p^n, 
mix it well with the barley, arid serve, properly seasoned. 

127. OYSTER SOUP. 

Blanch two dozen . oysters in their own liquor, to which 
add a glass of Marsala. When firm take them away from 
the foam with a small fiat skimmer and place them on a 
cloth ; draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the 
liquor deposit and clarify itself. Meanwhile boil three 
pints of fish broth, to which add as soon as ready the 
clarified liquor above mentioned, and when boiling draw to 
the side of the fire and skim. Whisk the yolks of three 
eggs with two tablespoonfuls of B6chamel sauce, a little 
grated nutmeg, and one ounce of fresh butter; mix well 
with the broth in the usual way, pour it into the soup- 
tureen with the oysters, and serve. 

128. BEER AND WINE SOUP. 

Fry in butter a few small slices of the crumbs of bread, 
then pour a bottle each of pale ale and red wine with 
the peel of half a lemon ; shred three cloves and a little 
cinnamon, and add them to the liquor. Boil for five 
minutes, and serve. 

129. STURGEON SOUP (ENGLISH STYLE). 
Cook in good gravy about two pounds of sturgeon ; let 
it get cold, and cut it in small dice. Meantime boil in a 
saucepan three pints of broth, into which pour a glass of 
sherry, Madeira, or port; add the usual seasoning, with 
a little cayenne and two teaspoonfuls of anchovy butter. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 73 

When boiling pour it into a soup-tureen in which the 
sturgeon has already been put, add a dozen small beef 
quenelles and as many glazed mushrooms, and serve. 



130. GOOSE GIBLET SOUP (ENGLSH STYLE), 
Blanch in the usual way the giblets of a goose ; strain 
the water through a colander ; out them in dice and fry 
them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter ; add a glass 
of %herry or Madeira, and let them simmer till nearly 
reduced ; then draw the stewpan by the side of the fire. 
Meantime boil three pints of broth, add one carrot, the 
half a head of celery, one leek, six pepper-corns, three 
cloves, and a "bouquet garni;" boil gently for an hour, 
then pass the broth through a sieve and back to the stew- 
pan, clarify it with a little raw minced meat, the whites of 
two eggs, properly whisked and mixed with half a glass 
of sherry. Put the giblets into a soup-tureen with a 
few small quenelles of chicken and three tablespoonfuls of 
Brunoise, pour the boiling broth, when properly clarified, 
over, and serve. 

131. POACHED EGG SOUP A LA STYRIENNE. 
Boil in a stewpan three pints of good broth. When 
boiling sprinkle three ounces of good' semolina flour, a 
small quantity at a time; keep stirring, to prevent the 
flour clotting; then poach six or eight new-laid eggs by 
breaking each separately, and plunge them into some 
boiling broth set apart for that purpose in a saute-pan; 
boil for about two minutes, draw the pan away from the 
fire, take the eggs out one by one with a flat strainer ; lay 
them carefully on a cloth, trim each nicely round with a 
knife, and place them in a soup-tureen with half a pound 
of green peas previously cooked in salt water and two 



74 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tablespooiifuls of parsley blanched and hashed fine ; then 
pass the broth in which the eggs were poached through a 
sieve, mix it with the one in which the semolina flour was 
diluted, stir well, pour slowly into the soup-tureen, and 
serve with a little grated cheese on a plate apart. , 

132. POACHED EGG SOUP. 

Poach six or eight eggs in boiling salt water as above, 
but add two spoonfuls of vinegar ; take them out and trim 
them in the same manner, put them very carefully in a 
soup-tureen, and pour gently three pints of good boiling 
broth, nicely clarified, over it, and serve. 

133. CALF'S TAIL SOUP (INDIAN STYLE). 

Cut at the joints two calves' tails, blanch the pieces in 
boiling salt water, and brown them in a saut6-pan with 
half a pint of good gravy; after which, soak the lot with 
broth, let simmer till cooked, then strain the gravy, return 
it to the saut6-pan and put the pieces of tails in the soup- 
tureen, whisk the yolks of two eggs and dilute it with the 
■gravy in which the pieces of tails were cooked, together 
with two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, set the saut6-pan 
on the fire, stir well, and when nearly boiling pour it over 
the calves' tails with a few chicken quenelles and a quart 
of good boiling broth, and serve. 

134. SOUP A LA POLONAISE. 

Put in a stewpan the half of a roast fowl, six ounces of 
gammon cut in thin slices, two pounds of breast of veal, 
three pints of cold water, and two tablespoonfuls of salt. 
Boil and skim carefully ; add the usual vegetables as in 
soup No. 2. When the meat is properly cooked take it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 75 

out, pass the broth through a fine cloth, return it to the 
stewpan, and when boiling throw in three ounces of gruel 
previously cooked in plain water, let it boil, stir well, 
and pour it into a soup-tureen, with the chicken-breast, 
a little of the veal, and part of the gammon, all cut in 
very small dice ; and serve. 



135, COCK A LEEKIE SOUP. 

Boil a chicken in two quarts of water, with salt, pepper, 
and an onion stuck with two cloves, for forty minutes, 
taking care to skim off the scum at the proper time ; 
then strain the broth through a cloth into a stewpan j add 
a quart "of veal stock and boil. Meanwhile cut the white 
part of six leeks one inch and a half long, slice these 
in four, lengthways, blanch them in the usual way, drain 
the water, and pour the leeks into the broth to cook. 
Meanwhile cut up the chicken meat, free from bones, 
skin, and gristle, into small pieces. When the leeks are 
thoroughly cooked and soft add the pieces of chicken, 
and let them simmer for another ten minutes, then pour 
into a soup-tureen after having seasoned to taste ; and 
serve, 

136. MUTTON BROTH. 

Take three pounds of the scrag end or neck of mutton, 
cut it into several pieces, wash them in cold water and put 
them into a stewpan with two quarts of cold spring water ; 
set the stewpan to boil, and skim the broth well ; then add 
two turnips cut in slices, a few sprigs each of parsley and 
green thyme, and a, little salt. After an hour and a half 
of gentle ebullition, skim off the fat from the surface and 
strain through a fine sieve into a basin, and keep in a cool 
place ready for use. 



CHAPTER II. 
SOUPS FOR CONVALESCENTS AND CHILDREN. 

137. PLAIN CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut. a chicken or young fowl into four parts, wash these 
well in cold water,- and put the pieces in a stewpan with 
three pints of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt ; boil 
it, skim it well, then add the heart of a lettuce and a 
handful of chervil, let it simmer for about an hour, and 
strain it through a fine cloth into a basin. 

138. SIMPLE PAP. 

Cut in slices some crumb of bread, put them in a stew- 
pan with enough chicken or veal broth to soak, boil it, pass 
through a sieve by rubbing, and put it back into the 
stewpan ; boil it again, add a few pieces of butter each as 
big as a pea, and serve, 

139. PAP A LA REINE. 

Soak in half a pint of hot broth some slices of the crumb 

of bread, pound in a mortar the meat of half a chicken, 

previously cooked in white broth and boned, mix this with 

the bread and pass it through a sieve, put it back into the 

stewpan, boil it with the quantity of white broth required, 

and serve. 

76 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 77 

140. BREAD RASPINGS SOUP. 

Pound in a mortar one pound of crust of bread, or grate 
a one-pound loaf ; boil one pint . of broth ; pour in the 
bread-raspings, a small quantity at a time ; stir well to 
prevent clotting, and after ten minutes' ebullition draw the 
stewpan away from the fire, add a few pieces of butter, 
pass all through a sieve, and serve. 

141. VELVETY SOUP. 

Dilute one tablespoonful of flour with two of milk, boil 
a cup of broth, and when it boils pour gradually the 
diluted flour over it, stir continually, boil for a few minutes, 
and serve with a few croutons fried in butter. 

142. SAGO SOUP, 

"Wash in boiling water, strain and boil in broth, the 
quantity of sago required, and when it has thickened 
like a hot jelly it is cooked ; draw it from the iire, add a 
little butter, and serve. 

Sago can also be cooked with milk, in which case add a 
piece of sugar. 

143. TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Boil a tablespoonful of tapioca to each cup of broth for 
ten minutes, then add a little butter, and serve. The same 
can also be done with milk, and instead of butter add 
sugar. 

144. POTATO FLOUR SOUP. 

Dilute a tablespoonful of fecula or potato flour with two 
or three of cold broth, then pour it into a stewpan with a 



78 P.RACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pint of boiling broth, stir this well, and after a few minutes 
of ebullition serve. 



145. SEMOLINA SODP. 

Boil a pint of good broth ; when boiling pour gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of semolina into it, stirring it mean- 
while, and let it boil for half an hour ; add a little butter, 
and if too thick some boiling broth, stir again, and serve. 



146. RICE FLOUR SOUP. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter two table- 
spoonfuls of rice flour for ten minutes, theli add gradually 
a pint of milk to it, stir the while to prevent clotting, boil 
it, and serve. 



147. PASTE SOUP WITH BROTH OR MILK. 

Put in boiling broth or milk two ounces for each person 
of vermicelli, stars, or any other small pastOj boil for five 
or six minutes, add a little butter, and serve. 



148, BEEF TEA. 

Take two pounds of the lean part of the round or beef- 
steak, remove carefully all fat skin and sinew from it, then 
cut it in small square pieces of about an inch, put these 
pieces of beef into a stewpan with three pints of cold water 
and a dessert-spoonful of salt, set the stewpan on the fire, 
and ,when the contents reaches ebullition skim it in the 
usual way; then remove the stewpan by the side of the fire, 
let it simmer for about an hour ; after which, strain th§ 
broth or beef tea through a fine cloth, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 79 



149. SNAIL BROTH FOR OBSTINATE COUGHS. 

Take three dozen garden snails, wash them in three or 
four different waters, then add to them the hind-quarters 
of two dozen stream frogs, previously skinned ; bruise them 
together in a mortar ; after which, put these into a stewpan 
with two turnips finely chopped, a tablespoonful of salt, a 
pinch of saffron, and three pints of cold water; set the 
stewpan on the fire, stir the lot with a wooden spoon until 
the broth begins to boil, then skim it most carefully, and 
set it by the side of the fire to simmer for half an hour ; 
after which, the broth must be strained by pressing it 
through a tammy-cloth into a basin for use. 

This broth, from its soothing qualities, often counteracts 
successfully the straining effects of a severe and obstinate 
cough, and alleviates (more than any other culinary pre- 
paration) the sufferings of consumptive persons. 



150. SIMPLE JELLY. 

Take an old fowl, with one pound of lean beef and two 
pounds of leg of veal ; cut each in small pieces, put them 
into a stewpan with three pints of cold water, and salt to 
taste. Boil them ; skim most carefully, add two carrots 
and two turnips shred finely; cover the stewpan and 
boil for three hours ; then pass the broth through a sieve ; 
press and squeeze well the pieces of meat ; let the broth 
get cold ; add to it afterwards the white of an egg, 
properly whisked, with a gill of broth ; set it to the boil 
again ; stir till it comes to a nice thickness without letting 
it boil ; then pass through a cloth into an earthenware jar 
or pan, and remove it to a cool place, when it will become 
a jelly, and is ready for use. 



CHAPTER III. 

REMARKS ON SAUCES, ESSENCES, MELTED 
BUTTER, AND JELLIES. 

Whatever the cookery may be, it is absolutely neces- 
sary, even amongst private families, to have certain sauces 
always at hand, the object of which is to perfect and 
strengthen, as well as to improve and cdlour, the- different 
made dishes. Cooking, as I have said before, is an art; 
therefore it can be compared (if I am not too bold) to 
painting, inasmuch that, however talented an artist may 
be, he, can never paint a picture unless he has the proper 
colours at his command ; but once possessed of the right 
combinations, he can extend or reduce and alter his -tints 
according to his taste and ideas. The cook must likewise 
have the necessary ingredients in order to enable him to 
produce made dishes both tasty and pleasing to the eye, 
the latter being always a desirable end in cookery; and 
although the same sauces may often be in request, it does 
not follow that the flavour will be uniform, as, the artist 
cook, like the artist painter, will be be able to exercise his 
knowledge and talent by manipulating his sauces, and 
give them the hue required as well as the flavour expected. 

The four principal sauces, which after broth must be 
considered the foundation of all good and high-class cook- 
ing, are the Espagnole (brown), Velout^ (fawn, velvety), 
Bechamel (white), and AUemande (yellow).. 

In order to obtain good sauces it is of the utmost 

importance that the butter should be good and fresh ; 

80 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 8 1 

that the seasoning should be put in proper quantities ; 
that the liaison (which here means a binding or thickening) 
be made with the yolks of fresh eggs, well whisked and 
properly strained ; and that the simmering, as well as the 
skimming, should have the most careful attention of the 
cook. Let this be well understood, that in no part of the 
culinary process is attention and care so much required as 
in the preparation of sauces, as no remedy will successfully 
remove the mischief caused by a failure. 

Note, — All the sauces made of different compounds, 
especially those of butter, should be kept hot in bain-maries, 
and these even then not more than twenty minutes ; other- 
wise, on account of their delicacy, they will either turn, 
get decomposed, or become oily. To remedy this, and 
bring the butter sauces to their original smoothness, a 
piece of clean ice as big as a nut should be added to the 
sauce in summer, or a little cold water in winter, and this 
should be worked briskly with a spoon by the side of the 
fire, before serving. 



151. ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 

To make this sauce it is essential that the broth should 
be good. 

Prepare a broth as No. 4, then melt in a stewpah two 
ounces of butter, pour the same quantity of semolina flour, 
stir well with a wooden spoon till it boils, then draw the 
stewpan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer for half 
an hour, often stirring. After this, add gradually some of 
the hot broth to it, then pour the lot into it, arid set it to 
the boil, stirring the while, when boiling. Let the fat rise 
to the. top; skim it properly; then pass the sauce through 
a tammy sieve; return it to the stewpan; boil it again, 
and reduce it till it has reached a nice thick, but soft, 



82 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

consistency, stirring tlie while to prevent clotting; then 
pour it into an earthenware pan ; lay a piece of kitchen 
paper at the top, to remove any remaining particle of fat, 
and place it in a cool place, as it is now ready for use, 
and will keep several days. 



152. ESPAGNOLE SAUCE No. 2. 

Butter a stewpan, with an ounce of butter put in it, a 
shred onion, and about three pounds of leg of veal cut 
in small slices skinned and the fat removed, also a pound 
of beef cut in slices, as well as any carcasses of chicken 
and game that may be had; moisten the lot with half a 
pint of broth or stock No. i. Boil on a good fire till the 
broth is reduced by one-half, turn the meat round so as to 
glaze it of an even brown colour ; when the meat is nicely 
glazed, draw the stewpan by the side of the. fire, cover it, 
and let it stand for a few minutes. > After this, pour in 
three quarts of stock No. i, boil it, skim it in the usual 
way, and add a " bouquet garni," one carrot shred finely, 
salt and pepper to taste, then let it simmer till the meat 
is well done, when it must be taken out and the broth 
strained through a fine cloth ; return the broth to the 
stewpan, and set it by the side of the fire. Meantime 
put three ounces of butter in a small stewpan, and when 
properly melted pour a similar quantity of semolina flour 
with it. Stir it well over the fire with a wooden spoon, 
and simmer it for a quarter of an hour, giving it an 
occasional stir. Dilute this with some of the broth, and 
when properly mixed pour the remainder of the broth 
ever it ; boil it, stir it constantly till boiling, then draw 
the stewpan to the side of the fire and- let it simmer for 
two hours j^ skim off the fat and scum as it rises, then 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 83 

strain the sauce through a fine cloth into an earthenware 
pan, and put by in a cool place for future use. 

These sauces will, in ordinary weather, keep perfectly 
well and good for four or five days. 



153. VELOUTlS SAUCE, 

Put about two pounds of lean veal, free from skin and 
fat, into a buttered stewpan, also three slices of ham, half 
a pint of white stock, two carrots and one onion shred. 
Simmer the contents very gently, taking care not to colour 
the meat, and after half an hour moisten with three 
quarts of veal broth j boil it, skim it, and then draw the 
stewpan to the side of the fire; add a few shalots, a 
" bouquet garni," and the cuttings of half a dozen white 
mushrooms ; simmer till the veal is well done ; take it out 
and strain the broth through a fine cloth ; put the broth 
back to the stewpan by the side of the fire. Meantime 
prepare a mixture of three ounces of butter with the 
same quantity of semolina flour in a stewpan, as in the 
Espagnole sauce, but do not brown the flour; dilute this 
with the white stock or veal broth in the same way as in 
No. 152, and mix it with the remainder of the stock in the 
stewpan ; stir constantly till it has reached ebulKtion, let 
it simmer for two hours, skim off the fat and scum as it 
rises, give it an occasional stirring, and strain through a 
tammy sieve into an earthenware pan, and put by in a 
cool place. 

154. BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan six ounces of butter, the same quantity 
of lean ham cut in thin slices, one pound of lean veal, 
one carrot, one shalot, a little celery, all shred in the usual - 
style; also a. bay-leaf, two cloves, a small "bouquet" of 



84 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. „ 

thyme and pepper-corn. Set the stewpan on a moderate 
fire, let it simmer without browning the meat, and when 
almost dry sprinkle over three ounces of semolina flour, 
moisten with three pints of chicken broth and one quart 
of cream, stir and mix well together j boil it, draw the 
stewpan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently j stir 
occasionally, and skim in the usual way ; if too thick 
add a little more broth or cream, and after two hours of 
simmering strain through a tammy sieve into an earthen- 
ware pan, as with the other sauces. 



155, ANOTHER MODE OF PREPARING BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Pour into a stewpan one quart each of Veloute sauce 
and fresh cream, a small " bouquet garni," and three thin 
slices of lean ham ; boil these, and stir constantly till the 
sauce is almost reduced by half, then pass it through a 
sieve as befora 



156. ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one pound 
of mushroom trimmings ; when well reduced, moisten this 
with three pints of Velout6 sauce and one pint of chicken 
broth ; boil till reduced by one-third ; then add the yolks 
of six eggs well whisked, stir this for a few seconds, to mix 
properly with the sauce, boil it again, and pass it through 
a tammy sieve into a basin. 



157. BUTTER SAUCE, 

Dilute two tablespoonfuls of semolina flour in a stewpan 
with three ounces of melted butter; add a gill of cold 
water, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and the Juice of half a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 85 

lemon ; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; then draw 
the stewpan by the side, add six ounces of butter, mix it 
well, pour it into a bain-marie, and keep it hot for use. 

Note. — It is absolutely necessary to have good fresh 
butter to make this sauce, and it is also advisable to make 
it only when wanted, as, from its particular delicacy, it is 
liable to get decomposed if left a certain time exposed to 
heat. 

158. WHITE SAUCE. 

Fry two ounces of bacon with four of beef fat in a 
stewpan, together with the half of a carrot and a shred 
onion, a small " bouquet garni," the juice of half a lemon, 
a few cloves, and a pinch of pepper ; sprinkle a_ spoonful 
of flour over it, stir it well, then pour three pints of boiling 
water over it; salt it to taste, and boil for twenty-five 
minutes ; skim, stir, and pass it through a tammy sieve. 



159. MAtTRE D'HdTEL SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan three ounces of fresh butter, a spoonful 
of minced parsley, previously blanched and dried, a little 
grated nutmeg, white pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; 
stir the contents well together near the fire, and when the 
butter becomes of the consistency of thick cream and is 
near ebullition it is ready to be served. 

160, CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

Put a pound of fresh butter into a stewpan, simmer 
gently until it is perfectly clear and of a nice golden 
colour, or till it has finished fizzing, then pass it through 
a tammy cloth into a basin, let it get cold, then cover and 
place it in a cool place, ready to be used when wanted. 



86 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



161. ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Wash and bone six anchovies, pound them in a mortar 
with three ounces of butter, and rub them through a 
sieve with a wooden spoon. 



162. RAVIGOTE BUTTER. 

Take in equal proportions some parsley, chervil, spring 
onions, shalots, tarragon, and watercress, blanch the lot for 
two or three minutes in boiling water, drain and press out 
the water by twisting it in a cloth, then Shred and pound 
the mixture in a mortar, with two properly washed and 
boned anchovies and three ounces of butter, boil it in a 
little stewpan, stir and mix well, and then pass it through 
a fine sieve, and store away for future use. 



163. MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Blanch, drain, and pound in a mortar the same kinds of 
herbs as in No. 162, together with six washed and boned 
anchovies, a small clove of garlic, and the yolks of three 
eggs boiled hard, half a pound of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of olive-oil, one of tarragon vinegar, and salt and pepper 
to taste. When the whole is properly pounded pass it 
through a fine sieve. This will be found tasty. 



164. BEURRE NOIR, OR BROWN BUTTER. 

Put in a small saucepan a gill of vinegar with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of that quantity of white pepper, 
and a bay-leaf ; boil it ; meanwhile put into a frj'ing-pan 
six ounces of butter to boil till it begins to acquire a dark- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 87 

brown colour, then add a few leaves of parsley, washed and 
dried, boil again for a few seconds, then draw it away from 
the fire altogether ; five minutes after, pass it through a 
pointed strainer into the saucepan containing the vinegar, 
which must have been reduced a little in boiling, and pour 
into a glazed basin for future use. When wanted, this has 
only to be warmed up, without boiling. 



165. HORSE-RADISH BUTTER. 

Scrape a large horse-radish, or two small ones, pound 
it in the mortar with a similar quantity of butter, and 
rub it through a sieve. 



166. TRUFFLE BUTTER. 

Cut and pound in a mortar four or five small truffles 
together with the half of an anchovy and three ounces of 
butter ; when the lot is properly pounded and well mixed, 
rub it through a fine sieve and put it by for future use. 



167. PERIGUEUX BUTTER. 

Cut in thin slices four or five truffles, put these in a 
small saut^-pan, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira 
and two pepper-corns ; boil for a few minutes ; let it get 
cold, then pound it in a mortar with three ounces of 
butter, and rub through a sieve. 



168. CURRY OR CAYENNE BUTTER. 

Mix on a plate one teaspoonful of curry powder, or as 
much cayenne pepper as a small pea, with three ounces of 
butter,, and use it without passing it through a sieve. 



eS- PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

169. CRAYFISH AND LOBSTER BUTTER. 

Cook and shell about thirty crayfish, as indicated in 
No. 123 ; pound the shells and claws in a mortar with 
half a pound of butter ; put this pur^e in a stewpan on a 
moderate 'fire, stir occasionally till the butter acquires a 
nice red colour ; then moisten it with a small cup of 
boiling water, stir again on the fire, and as soon as it 
reaches ebullition rub it through a fine sieve into' a basin, 
let it get cold, and when firm take it out of the basin in 
one piece, cut off the sediment which will have settled at 
the bottom, and replace the good part in the basin, to be 
cut and melted when wanted. 

Note. — This butter should not be kept too long. For 
lobster butter, proceed in the same way. 

170. ESSENCE OF TRUFFLES. 

Chop fine about a quarter of a pound of truffles, or if 
you have any trimmings use them instead, place them in 
a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
and a bruised clove of garlic; moisten the lot with a gill of 
French white wine, let simmer till the liquor is nearly all 
reduced, then add half a pint of good broth, set to the 
boil, and simmer for ten minutes longer ; after which; pass 
it through a fine cloth, by twisting it, into a basin, and 
put by for use, when it will be found extremely useful 
for flavouring sauces and stews, in which the flavour of 
truffles should predominate. 

171. ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Peel clean and chop finely half a pound of fresh mush-- 
rooms, fry them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter and' 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 89 

a little lemon juice for two or three minutes, then moisten 
with half a pint of white stock, let it simmer for ten 
minutes, and rub it through a sieve into a basin for use. 



172. ESSENCE OF GAME. 

Chop up the carcasses of winged game left from the 
previous day's dinner, place them in a stewpan with four 
shalots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, two 
pinches of pepper, and two ounces of butter. Fry the lot 
to a light-brown colour, then moisten them with a gill of 
French white wine, and let them simmer and stir till 
reduced to a glaze ; then add half a pint of good broth, 
simmer again for half an hour, skim and strain it through 
a tammy sieve, and finish it by adding the juice of half a 
lemon. 

173, ESSENCE OF CHICKEN. 

Chop up the carcasses of two or three fowls ; put them 
in a saucepan with about one pound of fillet of veal cut 
in four; moisten this with three pints of chicken broth, 
add ^n onion with two cloves stuck in, the half of a carrot, 
and a " bouquet garni ; " simmer for an hour, strain the 
essence through a fine cloth, by twisting it, into a basin, 
remove carefully all fat, and put by in a cool place for use. 



174. ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES. 

Wash, bone, and clean six anchovies ; pound them in a 
mortar with a tablespoonful of capers and one shalot; put 
these afterwards into a small stewpan with salt, pepper, a 
little mace, and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; 
simmer for five minutes ; then moisten with half a pint 



90 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of broth ; boil it on a brisk fire till reduced by half, and 
rub it through a tammy into a basin. 

When wanted, warm it up in a bain-marie, and add a 
few drops of lemon juice before serving. 



175. ESSENCE OF FISH. 

Clean and cut in pieces a pound each of whiting, 
gurnard, and soles, or any other small fish ; put them in 
a stewpan with two onions stuck with two cloves, a carrot, 
a "bouquet garni," four sh.olots, a pint of French white 
wine ; salt and pepper to taste ; boil for five minutes, then 
add three pints of fish broth, boil again over a brisk fire 
till reduced to half its original quantity, and strain it 
through a cloth into a basin and put it by for use. 

176. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 

Put a stewpan on the fire with two ounces of butter, 
mix with it the same quantity of semolina flour, half a 
pint of cold water, the juice of a lemon, and salt to taste ; 
boil on a moderate fire and stir well with a wooden spoon 
the while, to make it soft and without clots; as soon as 
it boils rub it through a fine sieve or tammy cloth, return 
it to the stewpan on the fire, add a little grated nutmeg, 
six ounces of butter, and a few drops of lemon- j nice j stir, 
and serve as soon as the butter is properly melted. 

This sauce can be improved by adding the yolks of two or 
three eggs well beaten, diluted with a little hot water passed 
through a sieve and mixed with the sauce before serving. 

177. BUTTER AND KETCHUP SAUCE. 
Mix well in a stewpan two or three tablespoonfuls of 
ketchup sauce with a leacupful of Velout^ sauce ; set it on 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 91 

the fire and boil for a few minutes ; stir occasionally with 
a wooden spoon, add an ounce of butter, stir again, and 
serve. 

Note. — This sauce can be made in the same way with any 
other essence. 

178. BLANQUETTE SAUCE, 

Melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan; mix with it 
the same quantity of flour and work it into a paste with- 
out browning • moisten with a pint of veal broth ; stir with 
a wooden spoon till it boils ; then draw by the side of the 
fire, add a bay-leaf and two small slices of ham, simmer it 
for an hourj skim and pass it through a sieve into a 
basin, to be used as wanted. 

179. POULETTE SAUCE. 

Stir an ounce of flour with the same quantity of butter 
in a stewpan on the fire for three minutes ; then add a 
pint of white broth, and continue the stirring for fifteen 
minutes; after which, draw the stewpan away from the 
fire, thicken the sauce with the yolks qf two eggs, season 
with salt and pepper, add a dozen champignons, sliced in 
twos or threes, with a gill of the liquor they have been 
boiled in, stir the sauce over the fire till near the boil, add 
a small piece of butter, stir again to melt it, and serve. 

180. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Clean and blanch for a few minutes in a stewpan one 
pint of green gooseberries; strain off the water through 
a colander, rub them in the usual way through a sieve into 
the stewpan again, add two ounces of butter; boil,, stir well, 
and serve. 



92 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

181. APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel and cut in slices five or six apples; put them in 
a stewpan witli half a pint of water ; when cooked and 
the water entirely consumed, rub them through a sieve; 
return the pur6e to the stewpan on the fire, add about a 
gill of, hot water, an ounce of sugar, and half an ounce 
of butter to it, stir well, and when the whole is properly 
melted, and mixed together, serve. 

182. EGG SAUCE. 

Mix in a stewpan on the fire a teacupful of Veloute 
sauce with three hard-boiled eggs cut in small dice ; add 
a little white pepper and salt to taste, also a little grated 
nutmeg, together with the juice of half a lemon and a 
dessert-spoonful of anchovy butter; mix' the lot well to- 
gether by stirring over the fire before serving. 

183. BREAD SAUCE. 

Pour one pint of fresh cream into a stewpan on a 
moderate fire, and as soon as it begins to foam and swell 
draw the stewpan away ; then add three ounces of bread- 
crumbs, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and an onion ; 
boil for five minutes, take the onion out, add an ounce of 
butter, stir well, and serve. 

Note. — The above is the proper manner to make a bread 
sauce, but a similar one can be made (although not so good) 
by substituting milk for cream. 

184. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE (DUTCH). 

Mix in a stewpan on a moderate fire the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of Veloutd sauce, a little 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 93 

grated nutmeg, and six ounces of fresh butter; stir this 
continually, and as the sauce thickens draw it gradually 
away from the fire to prevent boiling, without ceasing the 
stirring. When it has assumed a nice soft compact form, 
and swelling in the stewpan, pour in it two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, a little white pepper, and salt to taste ; stir well 
and pass it through a tammy sieve, and serve quickly, or 
into a bain-marie to keep hot till wanted. 



185. INDIAN SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of Allemande sauce in a stewpan 
with a very small pinch of saffron, three ounces of curry 
butter, or simply one tablespoonful of curry powder and 
two ounces of fresh butter, set it on the fire, stir, and when 
properly mixed, and made hot, serve. 



186. OYSTER SAUCE. 

Blanch for five minutes two dozen oysters in a gill of 
white wine, strain the liquor into a small saucepan, mix 
with it one pint of Velout^ sauce and a gill of fish broth 
if handy, or the same quantity of white stock ; boil, stir, 
and simmer for ten minutes, then add the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten, stir the contents well, pass it through a 
tammy sieve into the saucepan again on the fire, season 
with salt and pepper, squeeze the juice of half a lemon, 
stir gently, pour the oysters in, stir again, and serve. 

187. FINANCI^RE SAUCE. 

Cut in small dice a slice of gammon of about two 
ounces, shred an onion, mince a few mushrooms and one 
truffle, put the lot into a stewpan with two ounces of 



94 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

butter, add a small "bouquet garni" with a few pepper- 
corns, fry.. for a few minutes,- then pour in it half a- 
pint of white claret or sherry, cover the stewpan and 
simmer till reduced to half the original quantity] pass 
the liquid through a fine-pointed strainer into. the stew- 
pan, and set it on the fire; keep the gammon, mushrooms, 
and truiHe apart, add and mix with the liqour a pint of 
Espagnole sauce, boil on a brisk fire for fifteen minutes, 
stir well, and pass it through a tammy sieve. Meanwhile 
put in a small saucepan a gill of white wine, with three 
spoonfuls of cut truffles, add it to the gammon, mush- 
rooms, and truffle that were kept back; cover the sauce- 
pan, boil till reduced by one quarter, and pour it with the 
other sauce at the moment of serving. 



188. SUPREME SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan on the fire a pint of Blanquette 
sauce; when near boiling mix with it a gill of chicken 
essence ; stir well, simmer till the sauce has reached a 
nice soft consistency, without, however, getting thick ; then 
add a tablespoonful of cream, an ounce of butter, and 
a few drops of lemon juice ; stir, and see that the butter is 
well melted before serving. 



189. BAVIGOTE BUTTER. 

Pour into a stewpan on the fire one pint of Velout^ 
sauce with half a pint of broth ; boil till reduced- by one- 
third; stir almost constantly, and pass it through a tammy 
sieve into the stewpan, to which add three ounces of 
"Eavigote butter; set it by the side of the fire; stir for 
a few seconds, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 95 

190. ROBERT SAUCE. 

Shred four onions in small dice, fry them in a stewpan 
with three ounces of butter ; when the onions are nicely 
browned sprinkle over them an ounce of white flour, 
stir the lot, and fry for two or three minutes longer; 
then pour in a gill of vinegar with half a pint of broth 
or water and an ounce of sugar, boil for a few minutes, 
then add salt and pepper to taste ; stir nicely, and serve 
with either boiled meat or grilled fowl. 

191. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Scrape and mince fine a horse-radish, put it into a 
stewpan with two tablespaonfuls of flour and half a pint 
of cream, boil for half an hour, rub it through a sieve 
into the stewpan and boil it again, season with salt and 
pepper, add a little milk if necessarj', and serve. 

192. GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Cut six green pickled gherkins in very thin slices, put 
them in a small stewpan with a few spoonfuls of vinegar 
and a pinch of pepper, let this boil quickly for a few 
minutes, then add a gill of Espagnole sauce and the same 
quantity of veal broth, stir on the fire till it boils, then 
draw the stewpan by the side of the fire, skim it, and 
serve. 

193, CAPER SAUCE. 

Put a teacupful of Allemande sauce into a stewpan, 
boil it with two tablespoonfuls of broth and an ounce 
of fresh butter, stir nicely, and pass through a sieve 
into the stewpan, then pour in two tablespoonfuls of 
capers, set on the fire, and when nearly boiling, serve. 



96 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



194. FENNEL SAUCE. 

Wash and mmce finely half a handful of fennel, put 
it in a bain-marie in which a teacupful of AUemande 
sauce has already been set to the boil; add a gill of 
chicken gravy, an ounce of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; 
mix these well together, and let the bain-marie boil for a 
few minutes before serving. 



195. D'UXELLES SAUCE AND D'UXELLES. 

Wash, chop, and press in a cloth one pound of fresh 
mushrooms or trimmings of tinned champignons, one pound 
of parsley, and half a pound of shalots; put these in a 
stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and season 
with salt and pepper to taste ; fry on a brisk fire for six 
minutes, stirring the while with a wooden spoon; after 
which, put it by in a jar for future use. 

This mixture is called D'TJxelles. The sauce is made 
by adding two tablespoonfuls of the mixture to a pint of 
Espagnole sauce. 

195a. FINE HERBS. 

Mince very fine three small onions, fry these in two 
ounces of butter, then add a quarter of a pound of fresh 
inushrooms, similarly minced ; continue the frying until 
dry, mix in the trimmings of two or three truffles, and two 
or three minutes afterwards add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, previously blanched ; mix this well to- 
gether, and put by in a jar covered with a buttered paper 
until wanted. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 97 

196. VENISON SAUCE. 

Stir and mix over the fire half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
with a gill of essence of game; then add a gill of port 
wine, the half of that quantity of good French vinegar, and 
two tablespoonfuls of black currant jelly ; boil this for two 
minutes, add the juice of an orange, pour the sauce into 
a sauce-boat, and serve. 



197. MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Put into a small saucepan half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
with the same quantity of gravy, simmer till reduced to 
nearly half, give it an occasional stir, then add about four 
ounces of champignons nicely sliced (buttons and stalks), 
pour a little of their liquor with it, boil again for a few 
minutes, stir the while, season with salt, and serve. 

This sauce can be improved by adding a gill of white 
claret or sherry before serving. 

198. TRUFFLES SAUCE. 

Cut about two ounces of truffles in very thin slices, put 
these into a small saucepan with either a glass of white 
claret, sherry, or Marsala; boil it quickly till reduced to 
half, then pour into it half a pint of Espagnole and a small 
pinch of salt ; stir on the fire till it has boiled for two or 
three minutes longer, and serve. 

199. SALMIS SAUCE. 

Prepare some game essence ; mix half a pint of it with 

one pint of Espagnole sauce into a stewpan, boil for a few 

minutes, stir occasionally, then pass it .through a sieve 

o 



98 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

into the stewpan, and set it by the side of the fire. Mean- 
while pound in a mortar the cooked liver of two or three 
partridges, grouse, or any other winged game ; mix it with 
the sauce, add an ounce of butter, boil it, stirring the while, 
and serve. 

200. HARE SAUCE. 

Pour into a stewpan one pint of Espagnole sauce with 
half a pint of game essence, boil it and stir the while, add 
four tablespoonf uls of good French vinegar, salt and pepper 
to taste, stir on the fire again, and when boiling pass it 
through a sieve, and serve. 



201. DEVILLED SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, one shred 
onion, and two small slices of ham cut in very small dice ; 
when the onion is nicely browned, moisten it with a gill 
of good French vinegar, add a small "bouquet garni" a 
bay-leaf, and a pinch of white pepper; cover the stewpan, 
and let it simmer till reduced by half. Meantime mix in 
another small saucepan one pilit of Espagnole sauce with 
half a pint of tomato sauce and one pint of veal broth ; boil ; 
stir occasionally till reduced by about one-quarter, then add 
half an ounce of sugar and the quarter of a teaspoonful 
of cayenne; stir this well, and mix it with the vinegar 
in the other stewpan, and after a few minutes of ebullition 
pass it through a fine tammy sieve; serve the quantity 
required, and put the remainder by in a cool place, to be 
warmed up in a bain-marie when wanted. 

202. ONION SAUCE. 

Peel and blanch iti salt water three onions, cut them 
in slices and fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 99 

for two or three minutes; rub them afterwards through 
a wire sieve into the stewpan on the fire, pour halt a 
pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste ; stir well, and when 
nearly boiling serve. 



203. CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan half a pint of Espagnole sauce and the 
same quantity of gravy, reduce this to half by a quick 
boiling, then add a cucumber of ordinary size, peeled and 
cut in thin slices, which must have been previously soaked 
in vinegar and salt for at least half an hour ; sprinkle over 
it a little more salt and pepper, stir gently, boil it, and 
serve. 

204. ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Put two glasses of French white wine into a stewpan 
with two or three large fresh mushrooms properly cleaned 
and minced finely; also a small chopped onion, a "bouquet 
garni," and half a dozen pepper-corns ; boil it and simmer 
till reduced to half. Meanwhile put in another stewpan 
one pint of Veloute or Espagnole sauce, with a gill of game 
broth ; boil it, and stir for a few minutes ; then pour the 
wine sauce gradually over this, keep stirring, rub it after- 
wards through a tammy sieve, and add the juice of a lemon 
before serving. 



205. ITALIAN SHARP SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter one shred 
onion and three ounces of lean ham or gammon, cut in 
small dice; add a bay-leaf, a little parsley, and moisten 
with a gill of French vinegar ; boil and reduce it to half 
its quantity ; after which, mix with it a pint of Espagnole 



loo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

sauce as well as three spoonfuls of tomato sauce and a little 
salt and pepper ; boil it for a few seconds, stir the while, 
pass through a tammy sieve into the stewpan again, 
and complete the sauce by- adding two tablespoonfuls of 
capers, previously pressed in a cloth and minced iine before 
serving. 

206, VENITIAN SAUCE. 

Put in a bain-marie on a brisk fire a teacupful of Alle- 
mande sauce, a few tarragon-leaves cut diamond-shape, 
previously blanched and drained, one tablespoonful of good 
chicken gravy, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 
tarragon vinegar ; mix well together and boil it in the 
bain-marie for a few minutes before serving. 

207. GENOISE SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce or two of butter two 
tablespoonfuls of olive-oil and an onion cut in slices; 
moisten with a glass of claret, add a handful each of fresh 
mushroom trimmings and truffles, a little chopped parsley, 
and half a bay-leaf, and simmer for about ten minutes. 
Meantime boil in a stewpan one pint of Espagnole sauce, 
with half a pint of veal broth and three tablespoonfuls of 
fish essence till reduced to one-third ; after which, add the 
contents of the first steWpan to it ; mix well, skim carefully, 
boil it again for a few minutes, then rub through a 
tammy sieve, return it to the stewpan on the fire, add two 
ounces of crayfish butter and the same quaiitity of anchovy 
butter ; stir and mix well on the fire till boiling, and then 
serve. 

208. NAPaLITAINE SAUCE. ' ' 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter a shred onion, 
with three ounces of gammon cut in small pieces; moisten 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. loi 

with a glass of sherry or Marsala and a teacupf ul of veal 
broth ; add a few sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, a few pepper- 
corns, three cloves, and the trimmings of a few mushrooms 
well cleaned ; boil it ; cover the stewpan, and simmer till 
reduced by one-half. In the meantime pour into another 
stewpan one pint of Espagnole sauce, the same quantity 
of tomato sauce, and a gill of game broth; boil this till 
reduced to one-third, then add the contents of the first 
stewpan to it ; stir well, boil for a few minutes, and rub it 
through a tammy sieve before serving. 



209, ROMAINE SAUCE. 

Melt three ounces of sugar in a non-tinned copper pan, 
add four tablespoonfuls of good vinegar to it, and dilute 
both with a gill of broth ; then add one pint of Espagnole 
sauce, and stir on the fire till well mixed. Boil, and serve. 



210. LOMBARDE SAUCE. 

Pour into a stewpan one pint of Blanquette sauce and 
half a pint of chicken essence, boil it, stir it occasionally, 
and after ten minutes of slow ebullition add the yolks of 
three eggs, well beaten and properly mixed with an ounce 
of melted butter and the juice of a lemon ; stir the contents 
on the fire well, and as soon as it reaches the boil draw 
the stewpan away from the fire ; add to it half a pint of 
tomato sauce,, mix this well together, then rub it through 
a tammy sieve, and serve. 

211. SICILIAN SAUCE. 

Chop separately and fine four shalots, two small truffles, 
a little parsley, and a dozen ordinary mushrooms ; put the 



102 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lot into a snlall saucepan with a little thyme, a bay-lea,f, 
one clove of garlic, and a small pinch of cayenne j moisten 
with two glasses of sherry ; set to simmer on a slow fire 
for ten minutes ; then add one pint of Allemande sauce ; 
continue the simmering for a few minutes longer, giving it 
an occasional stir, then add a spoonful of minced parsley, 
previously blanched, and the juice of half a lemon before 
serving. 

212. LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Out the fleshy part of a small cooked lobster into very 
small dice, and put them on a plate ; pound in a mortar the 
spawn and coral of the lobster with two ounces of butter 
and rub it through a sieve ; then put in a stewpan half 
a pint of Velout^ sauce with the lobster butter just made, 
half a gill of good gravy, and a small pinch of cayenne ; 
boil and stir occasionally, add the pieces of cut lobster 
and the juice of half a lemon, sprinkle a little pepper, 
and serve. 

213. SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Make half a pint of melted butter sauce, then add the 
coral of a small lobster, pounded and mixed with a small 
pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, eighteen 
picked shrimps, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 



214. VICTORIA SAUCE. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly in a stew- 
pan with a dozen cloves, a small stick of cinnamon, the 
peel of two oranges, a gill of good gravy, and half a pint 
of Espagnole sauce; moisten with .half a pint of red wine 
(Burgundy is best), boil it and simmer for twenty minutes, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 103 

then pass it through a tamm}' sieve, add the juice of two 
oranges, and serve. 

Note. — This sauce is generally served with red -deer or 
roebuck. 

215. RED CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

Break into shreds one stick of cinnamon and twelve 
cloves, put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of 
sugar and the peel of a lemon, which must be perfectly 
free from the white pulp ; moisten with three glasses of 
port wine, then set the lot to simmer on the fire for a 
quarter of aii hour; after which, pass it through a fine- 
pointed strainer into a stewpan containing six tablespoon- 
fuls of red currant jelly, boil it in order to melt the jelly, 
by stirring .and mixing well before serving. 

This sauce is generally served with venison. 

216. BUTTER SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS. 

Prepare a butter sauce as directed, then add a gill of 
cream with a teaspoonful of French vinegar ; mix well on 
the fire, and serve. 

This sauce is also served with cauliflower, seakale, &c., &c. 



217. TOMATO SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce 'of butter two ounces of 
gammon cut in small dice, with half an onion, half a carrot, 
and a little celery, all shred finely, together with a bay- 
leaf, a small "bouquet" composed of thyme, cloves, and 
pepper-corns ; moisten with three spoonfuls of good vine- 
gar, set it to simmer till the liquor is almost all absorbed, 
then pour in a gill of white claret and half a pint of broth j 
add seven or eight ripe fresh tomatoes cut in pieces, \rith 



I04 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the seed and water squeezed out of them ; let it boil for 
about twenty minutes with the lid on the pan, give it an 
occasional stirring, then pass it, by rubbing, through a 
tammy sieve into the stewpan again on the fire ; mix with 
it a pint of Espagnole, Veloute, or Blanquette- sauce ; boil, 
and stir gently to prevent burning, add a tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, and the juice of half 
a lemon, mix well together, and serve. 

Note. — I give th'e recipe of this sauce as a matter of 
course, but strongly advise the use of tinned tomato sauce, 
as it will be found both cheaper and better, on account of 
the superiority and cheapness of tomatoes in France and 
Italy, where they ripen better under a more genial sun 
than in the hothouses of this country. 



COLD SAUCES. 



218. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 



Mix in a round-bottomed basin half a pint of Veloute 
or Blanquette sauce with the same quantity of melted white 
jelly (No. 150), salt and pepper to taste and a little grated 
nutmeg ; set the basin in a bucket or saucepan containing 
some broken ice, then proceed to work the sauce with a 
wooden spoon without stopping, pouring with your left hand, 
little by little, half a pint of good olive-oil, stirring the while. 
When the sauce is nicely mounted and has reached its proper 
consistency add the juice of two lemons and a few sprigs of 
finely chopped chervil and tarragon, stir, and serve. 

219. ANOTHER MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put in a similar basin as in No. 218 the yolks of two 
eggs with salt to taste, and a few drops of lemon-juice ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 105 

proceed to work this sauce in the same manner as above 
with a wooden spoon and by pouring half a pint of good olive- 
oil, almost drop by drop, into the basin to begin with, till 
the half of the oil has been properly mixed, then a larger 
quantity at a time can be poured in. Keep stirring to and 
fro without stopping till the sauce assumes its proper con- 
sistency, then squeeze the juice of quarter of a lemon, and 
add gradually a gill of good French vinegar ; stir the while, 
and when the sauce is of a nice appearance sprinkle a small 
pinch of white pepper, the juice of two Jemons, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a few sprigs of chervil chopped finely ; 
mix these ingredients well together, pour it into a sauce- 
boat, and serve. 



220. MAYONNAISE RAVIGOTE SAUCE. 

Blanch in boiling salt water for a few minutes a small 
quantity each, of chervil, tarragon, parsley, the white part 
of a small head of celery, and one shalot ; then let them get 
cold, and pound them in a mortar with four washed and 
boned anchovies ; add three tablespoonf uls of Velout^ sauce, 
rub the lot through a tammy sieve, and at the moment of 
serving mix it with half the quantity of Mayonnaise sauce 
previously made as in the preceding number. 

Note. — The above Mayonnaise sauces are generally served 
as a dressing with any kind of cold iish, lobster, or cold 
fowl. 

221. TARTARE SAUCE. 

Mince finely a few sprigs each of parsley, chervil, 
tarragon, and one shalot, as well as the white part of 
the quarter of a head of celery, three boned anchovies, 
half a dozen capers, and the rind of half a lemon ; put the 



io6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lot into a cloth and twist it, so as to squeeze the juice out, 
then mix the minced substance with two op three table- 
spoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (No. 219), to which add one 
tablespoonful of mustard flour, a pinch of white pepper, and 
a few drops of lemon-juice before serving. 

Note.^-This sauce can be served with hot or cold fish as 
well as meat. 

222. KEMOULADK SAUCE. 

Blanch a small quantity of tarragon, chervil, burnet, and 
an onion; then chop and pound the lot in a mortar with 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, add salt and pepper 
to taste, a spoonful of mustard flour and a little grated 
nutmeg; pour all -into a basin, and add gradually to it, 
in small quantities, about a gill of good oil ; work the com- 
pound with a wooden spoon exactly as a Mayonnaise sauce, 
then pour two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, continue 
the stirring till well mixed, when it must be rubbed through 
a sieve, and served. Cayenne can also be added if liked. 



223. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Pour four tablespoonfuls of mustard floiir into a basin 
with a little salt, dilute it with a gill of boiling water, stir 
the while to prevent clotting, add two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar; stir, and see that the sauce is smooth before 
serving. 

224. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Cut in very small dice the root of an ordinary horse- 
radish, pound it in a mortar, then mix it with one ounce 
of powdered sugar and one of grated bread-crumbs, moisten 
with vinegar, pass through a sieve, put it into a basin, 
dilute with more vinegar, and serve. 



P-RACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 107 

225. MINT SAUCE. 

Put in a basin two ounces of brown sugar with two 
tablespoonfuls of fresh green mint, chopped fine, and half 
a pint of vinegar, mix well, and as soon as the sugar is 
dissolved, serve. 

226. MAItKE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Put about two ounces of butter on a plate with a little 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, 
knead the lot well together, and serve. 

This butter is used for kidneys, steaks, cutlets, broiled 
fish of all kinds, &c., &c. 

227. CALF'S FOOT JELLY (PLAIN). 

Scrape, clean, and cut in pieces foiir calf's feet, put them 
in an ordinary saucepan with three quarts of water on a 
good fire, boil for about four hours, pay proper attention 
to the skimming, then strain through a hair sieve into an 
earthenware basin, remove all particles of fat "with a sheet 
of blotting or kitchen paper, and place it on a shelf in a 
cool place. When cold wash the top of the jelly with a 
clean cloth dipped in boiling water. 

This plain jelly may be the foundation of all wine, fruit, 
and liqueur jellies when gelatine is not used, and can be 
kept good for a long time if boiled every day. 



CHAPTER IV. 
PUREES OF VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING, ETC. 

228. PUR^E OF TOMATOES. 

Cut a dozen fresh ripe tomatoes in slices, squeeze the 
water out of them and put them into a stewpan on a slow 
fire, with half a pint of broth, a " bouquet garni," and two 
slices of gammon ,• simmer till the liquid is nearly consumed, 
then add a gill of Velout^ or Blanquette sauce, stir and 
mix all well together on the fire, then rub it through a 
sieve into a bain-marie to be kept hot till wanted. 

229. PURINE A LA SOUBISE. 

Peel, cut, and blanch for ten minutes in boiling salt 
water six medium-sized onions ; strain and squeeze the 
water out of them ; place these afterwards in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter and three small slices of gammon, 
fry for five minutes on a slow fire, then add a gill of chicken 
broth with a pinch of white pepper ; let them simmer for 
half an hour, pour in a gill of Bechamel sauce, stir occa- 
sionally, and simmer again for five minutes; after which, 
rub through a sieve into a bain-marie, and at the moment 
of serving throw in a lump of sugar. 

Noie. — Should there be no B^chanjel sauce made, a table- 
spoonful of semolina flour, diluted in a gill of cream, will 
be a good substitute for it.. 

io8 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 109 

230. PUR^E OF VEGETABLES. 

Slice the red part of four carrots, two turnips, one onion, 
two leeks, and two heads of celery; wash and strain the 
lot properly, then pour them into a stewpan with three 
ounces of butter, fry till of a nice brown colour ; add to it 
half a pint of broth in which two or three slices of crumb 
of bread have been soaking, together with a little each of 
sugar, white pepper, and grated nutmeg ; boil on a good fire 
till the vegetables are well cooked, then pound them in a 
mortar, and return the pur^e to the stewpan, with half 
a pint of Espagnole sauce and a tablespoonful of essence of 
chicken, boil again for a few minutes, and pass through a 
sieve in the usual way before serving. 



231. PUR]6e of potatoes. 

Peel, wash, and cut in slices two pounds of potatoes ; 
cook them in a saucepan with a little salt water. When 
cooked, strain off the water through a colander ami return 
the potatoes into the saucepan with four ounces of butter, 
a little sugar, and half a pint of cream or milk ; stir well 
on the fire, and boU, then rub through a sieve into the 
saucepan . again, add a little more butter, together with a 
gill of hot chicken gravy, mix well on the fire, and serve. 



232. PUR^E OF GREEN PEAS. 

Cook in plenty of salt water with a, few branches of 
mint one quart of fresh shelled peas in a covered stewpan. 
When cooked, strain off the water through a colander, 
tlirow the mint away, pound the peas in a mortar or rub 
them through a sieve, return the piiree to the stewpan with 



no PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

two ounces of butter, half a pint of Bechamel sauce or 
good gravy, and a J)iece of sugar, mix well, set to the boil, 
and serve. 



233. PUR^E OF DRY PEAS. 

Soak in plenty of water a quart of dry peas for about 
ten hours, strain off the water in which the peas have 
soaked, boil them as in No. 232, but with less salt, add a 
" bouquet garni," a piece of sugar, pepper, grated nutmeg, 
and a slice of the crumb of bread. When well cooked, strain 
off the water, throw the "bouquet" away, pound the peas 
and bread in a mortar, return the pur6e to the stewpan 
on the fire, add a gill of Espagnole sauce ■ stir and mix well, 
set to the boil, pass through a sieve in the usual way, and 
serve. 



234. PUR^E OF LENTILS. 

Proceed for this pur^e exactly as for the pur^e of dry 
peas. 

235. PUR^E OF TURNIPS. 

Fry in butter eight large turnips, cut in small slices, 
after having been blanched in the usual way for five 
minutes ; then add a gill of veal broth or some good gravy, 
a piece of sugar, and two slices of crumb of bread, boil 
gently till well cooked, skim it carefully, and pound it in 
a mortar ; retumthe pur^e to the stewpan with half a pint 
of Bechamel sauce ; stir well, and boil, then pass it through 
a sieve into the stewpan, and just before serving add half 
a gill of hot gravy with an ounce of butter, Stir well on 
the fire till mixed, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. iii 

236. 

Celery, Carrots, French Beans, Endive, Cauliflower, and 
Spinach are made into purees in the same manner as the 
above. 

237, PUR]6e of CHESNUTS. 

Cook and peel two pounds of chesnuts in the same way 
ais in No. 51, but finishing the cooking in' water instead 
of broth ; then strain and pound them in a mortar, return 
the purte to the stewpan: on the fire with half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce, stir, and boil ; rub the puree through a 
sieve into the stewpan again on the fire, add an ounce 
of butter and a gill of cream, mix well whilst on the 
fire, and when hot serve. 

238. PUR^E OF SORREL. 

Pick and wash well in two or three waters three pounds 
of sorrel ; drain off the water ; melt in a stewpan two 
ounces of butter, put the sorrel in and cover the stewpan 
on the fire for a few. minutes ; stir afterwards with a 
wooden spoon on the fire till the sorrel is soft or melted, 
when it must be turned over into a hair sieve to drain. 
Meanwhile fry in the same stewpan with two ounces of 
butter an onion shred very fine, till of a nice brown colour ; 
then add a tablespoonful of flour, a little grated nutmeg, 
a tablespoonful of brown sugar, salt and pepper to taste ; 
stir on the fire for a few seconds ; after which, moisten with 
a gill of Espagnole sauce, add the sorrel from the sieve, 
simmer till well reduced and the sorrel turned into a puree, 
taking care to stir it with a wooden spoon the whole time ; 
then rub it through a, tammy sieve in the usual way, and 
serve hot, garnished with croutons and a spoonful of good 
gravy poured over it. 



112 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



239. PUR^E OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Proceed for this pur6e exactly in the same manner as 
for the pur^e of potatoes, taking the same quantity of 
artichokes, substituting them for potatoes. 



Remarks on Eggs. 

New-laid eggs are absolutely necessary for good cooking. 
They are as nourishing as their equivalent weight in meat, 
and more digestible, and, like rice, they can be prepared 
in many different ways. They are served in soups as well 
as in made dishes, and are appreciated in salads as well 
as in sweet dishes and omelets, besides bein^ constantly 
used in sauces, paste, pastry, liaisons, &c., &e. 

The freshness of eggs can easily be ascertained by 
immersing them gently one after the other in a basinful 
of cold water; -those lying flat at the bottom are quite 
fresh, those remaining perpendicular are not, and the eggs 
that float or swim are bad. Thus any one can tell the 
different ages of, say, a dozen eggs without fear of a 
mistake, and I strongly ajdvise every one to always try 
them in this way before breaking them. 

240. BOILED EGGS. 

Place the number of eggs required to be cooked into 
a ladle in boiling water for three minutes in summer and 
half a minute longer in winter, and serve in egg-cups. 

241. EGGS WITH BROWN OR BLACK BUTTER. 

For each couple of eggs required put a piece of butter 
as big as a walnut into a frying-pan on the fire ; let the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 113 

butter boil, then break the eggs in the middle, by a gentle 
knock on the border of the pan (after having tried their 
freshness as indicated), and drop them gently in,' without 
breaking the yolks j sprinkle a little salt and pepper on 
each, fry for about three minutes and remove them care- 
fully on a dish with a flat strainer, and keep hot ; return 
the frying-pan to the fire with half an ounce of butter 
(for each two eggs), and fry this butter till it is nearly 
black; then add a dessert- spoonful of French vinegar 
for each half-ounce of butter, with a sprig of parsley 
chopped fine ; pour it over the eggs, and serve. 

242. EGGS FRIED. 

Melt half an ounce of butter in a frying pan, and when 
boiling break two eggs, drop them gently into the frying- 
pan ; season with salt and' pepper, and when the whites 
get firm and begin to brown, serve on a hot dish. 

243. EGGS WITH CREAM AND BUTTER. 

Put about a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small flat 
enamelled pan, on the fire, with a gill of cream, a little salt 
and pepper for every two eggs broken, as in the foregoing. 
Meantime have red hot a salamander or iron shovel, hold 
it over the pan on the fire for two minutes, so that the con- 
tents are being cooked on the top as well as at the bottom 
of the pan at the same time ; and then serve quickly. 

Note. — Eggs cooked in enamelled pans should always be 
sent to the table in them, on plates. 

244. EGGS AU PLAT. 

Put a quarter of an ounce of butter into a small enamelled 
pan as in No. 243 ; let the butter melt on a moderate fire, 



114 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

then break two eggs and drop them into the pan without 
disturbing the yolks j let them simmer gently till the 
whites get firm, season with salt and pepper, put the pan 
in a hot oven for half a minute, and serve. 



245. POACHED EGGS. 

Put a quart of boiling water into a saut6-pan with a gill 
of vinegar and a good pinch of salt ; when the water boils, 
break the number of eggs required to be poached and drop 
gently one by one into the boiling water ; as soon as the 
whites get firm, take them out with a flat skimmer and 
place gently on a clean cloth, trim the whites with a knife, 
and serve either on plain toast, anchovy toast, with slices 
of bacon or purees, minced meat, &c., &c. 



246. EGGS AU PLAT WITH TOMATOES. 

Peel, slice, and squeeze the water out of a fresh tomato ; 
put half an ounce of butter into a small enamelled pan on 
the fire ; when the butter is melted, break and drop two 
eggs into it, with the slices of tomato; season well with 
salt and pepper, cook till the whites get firm, and then put 
the pan in the oven for one minute, and serve. 



247, EGGS A LA TRIPE. 

Boil ten eggs for ten minutes, immerse them afterwards 
in cold water for a few minutes to get cold, take them out, 
roll each one after the other on the table to break the 
shells, which remove with your fingers. Cut them iu thick 
round slices and put into a stewpan. Cut two onions in 
slices so as to leave them in rings ; blanch in salt water 
for a few minutes; strain and place in a stewpan with 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 115 

a gill of veal broth ; boil and simmer till cooked ; then pour 
them over the eggs with half a pint of Bechamel sauce, the 
clove of a garlic chopped very fine, a little nutmeg, salt 
and pepper to taste, and the juice of a lemon. Set the 
stewpan on the fire, toss the lot to prevent burning, and 
as soon as the eggs are made hot, dish up nicely inter- 
woven with the rings of onion and some slices of bread cut 
the same shape fried in butter, and serve. 



248. EGGS BROUILLfiS WITH ASPARAGUS-POINTS, 

Break and beat eight eggs into a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of grated cheese, three ounces of butter, a gill of 
cream or milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the stew- 
pan on a moderate fire, stii-ring all the time with a wooden 
spoon, and occasionally shake and toss the stewpan to pre- 
vent the contents from attaching itself to the bottom of 
the pan. When the eggs begin to thicken draw the stewpan 
by the side of the fire, add twenty small asparagus pre- 
viously cooked, strained, and cut in small points ; continue 
to work the eggs and mix with the asparagus-points until 
the eggs .ire nicely set, but not hard. Then pour into 
a hot dish and decorate with crolitons cut triangle-shape, 
and fried in butter before serving. 

Note. — The same thing can be made with chopped parsley, 
green peas, mushrooms, truffles, tomatoes, bacon and ham 
cut in small dice, taking care to previously cook the 
vegetables in the usual way, or to fry the ham or bacon 
in butter before mixing with the eggs. 



249. EGGS WITH SAUCE. 

Boil eight eggs in water for ten or twelve minutes, 
dip in cold water and shell them, cut each egg into halves 



Ii6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lengthwise, and place with taste on a hot dish, and put the 
dish in the open oven. Meanwhile have ready boiling half 
a pint of either butter, Ravigote, Blanquette, or any other 
sauce that may be fancied, and pour it over the eggs, and 
serve, 

250. EGGS AU GRATIN. 

Boil eight or ten eggs hard ; dip them into cold water ; 
shell and cut in slices; put these by on a plate. Put 
half a pint of Blanquette sauce into a stewpan, boil it 
and let it simmer for ten minutes, giving it an occasional 
stir ; then add half an ounce of butter, two ounces of grated 
cheese, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, 
the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of three eggs; 
stir the lot quickly over the fire till it begins to thicken, 
when the stewpan must be drawn ■ away from the fire. 
Then take a gratin-dish, put the eggs in close circular 
rows in it, spread some of the mixture out of the stewpan, 
over and between each layer, observing that the dishing- 
up must be in the form of a dome ; smooth the surface 
over with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle a handful 
of bread-crumbs mixed with the same quantity of grated 
cheese over the top ; decorate the base of the eggs with 
triangular crovltons fried in butter, set the dish in a hot 
oven to gratinate for about ten minutes, and serve. 



251. EGGS A LA DAUPHINE. 

Boil twelve eggs hard, plunge them in cold water, 
take the shells off and cut each egg into halves, scoop 
the yolks out and put in a mortar, place the whites on a 
dish and keep hot; add to the yolks a quarter of a pound 
of butter, about two ounces of the crumb of bread soaked 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 117 

in cream, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated 
nutmeg, two ounces of grated cheese, season with salt and 
pepper, and pound the whole well together. Add one raw 
egg and the yolks of two others, mix these well together 
by pounding again, then take this compound with a dessert- 
spoon, and fill up each white part of the eggs with it, and 
smooth each one over with the blade of a small knife 
dipped in water. Having thus filled the whites of the 
eggs, spread the remainder of the mixture on the bottom 
of a gratin-dish, then proceed to build up the eggs in 
three or four tiers -in a pyramidal form. Rub through 
a wire sieve the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, by 
holding the sieve over the dish so that the shreds like 
vermicelli may fall direct on and around the eggs, or 
form afterwards a border round the base of the dish 
with croutons fried in butter. Set the dish in the oven 
for about twenty minutes or till the eggs are of a bright 
yellow colour, then pour a little hot white sauce round, 
and serve. 



252. EGGS A L'AURORE. 

Boil ten eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut each 
into halves lengthwise, take the yolks carefully out and 
place them on a dish, shred the whites in fine strips, 
put these into a stewpan with a sauce composed of half 
a pint of bechamel mixed with a little lobster butter, 
the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
^nd a small pinch of cayenne ; toss the strips in the stew- 
pan over the fire until quite hot, then put a layer into 
the centre of a hot dish with a border of croiltons fried 
in butter, previously stuck round the bottom of the dish, 
sprinkle a handful of grated cheese over it, and rub the 
yolks of eggs put apart through a wire sieve, in the same 



ii8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY; 

manner as in No. 251 • make another layer of the whites 
and sauce, then shake again a little grated cheese and 
shreds of yolk, and so on, till the lot is used up, finishing 
with the yolks of eggs in shreds. Set the dish in the 
oven tUl it has attained a bright yellow colour, and serve. 



253, PLAIN OMELET WITH PARSLEY, 

Break six eggs into a basin ; add one tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to taste ; 
beat the contents well with a fork ; meantime melt in a 
clean frying-pan (size, 7 inches) two ounces of butter, and as 
soon as the butter begins to fritter pour the egg-mixture 
into it, taking care to beat it whilst it is being poured in ; 
then stir gently on the fire with the right hand, and give 
an occasional shake and toss to the pan with left ; when 
the omelet begins to get firm and is partially set, roll 
over the extremity nearest to the handle with the fork, 
do the same thing on the opposite side, to give it an oval 
form, allowing it at the same time to acquire a golden 
colour on the outside, or side touching the frying-pan. 
When properly cooked, take a hot oval dish with the left 
hand, turn the omelet over on to it from the pan, which is 
held by the right hand almost perpendicular against the 
dish, and serve. 

Although omelets are very simple and easily made, noth- 
ing but practice, combined with knowledge and attention, 
will teach the cook how to ensure -success in their prepara- 
tion. A proper omelet-pan should always be kept for the 
purpose. The eggs should never be overbeaten, as by so 
doing a watery mixture is produced, which will sometimes 
destroy the taste as well as the appearance. And lastly, 
never attempt to make an omelet with more than four- 
teen eggs ; if more are wanted, it is better to make two 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY: 119 

small than one large, which is generally difficult to cook 
properly. 

254. OMELET WITH HAM OR BACON. 

Beat six eggs in the same way as in No. 253, with or with- 
out parsley, and very little salt. Then cut in small dice 
two slices of either ham, gammon, or bacon (if raw, fry 
in butter for a few minutes). Melt in a frying-pan two 
ounces of butter, and when boiling pour into it the eggs 
beaten as above ; stir in the same manner. Mix the 
pieces of ham or bacon with it, and as soon as cooked 
fold in same style and serve as described in the foregoing. 



255. OMELET WITH ONION. 

Peel and slice two onions ; fry them in a frying-pan 
with two ounces of butter till nicely browned ; meanwhile 
beat six eggs into a basin, and add salt and pepper to taste. 
When the onions are properly browned add a little more 
butter to the frying-pan, then pour the mixture of eggs 
into it, stir in the usual way, fold, and serve. 



256. OMELET WITH TOMATOES. 

Peel, cut in slices, and squeeze the water out of three 
tomatoes, fry them in a frying-pan with two ounces of 
butter for a few minutes, and sprinkle a little salt and 
pepper over them- Meantime . break and beat six eggs, 
with salt and pepper, into a basin as before ; melt two 
ounces of butter in the frying-pan, pour the eggs in and 
stir in the usual "way, and when nearly cooked draw the 
pan away from the fire, spread the tomatoes over the 
omelet, push the pan over the fire again, fold as before, 
and serve. 



120 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



257. OMELET WITH FISH. 

Cut in small pieces, properly boned, any cooked fish 
that may remain from the previous day's dinner; fry it in 
a frying-pan with a little butter. Meanwhile prepare an 
omelet in the usual way, mix the fish with it, fold, and 
serve. 

258. OMELET WITH KIDNEYS. 

Procure two or three sheep's kidneys ; take the skin off 
and cut them in thin slices; put these into a stewpan, 
moisten with Espagnole sauce or good gravy, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper to taste, add half a glass of sherry, and let 
them simmer till cooked. Meanwhile prepare an omelet 
with six or eight eggs, spread the kidneys over it when 
cooked,, sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley, fold, and 
serve. A few slices of mushrooms added to the kidneys 
will improve the omelet. 



259. OMELET WITH ARTICHOKE. 

Blanch and cut in small quarters, the hearts of three or 
four artichokes, fry them in butter for a few minutes, and 
proceed to mix with the omelet as for the tomatoes. 

260. OMELET WITH CHEESE. 

Beat six eggs in the usual way with salt and pepper ; 
add four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, then proceed with 
this as in other omelets, and when on the dish sprinkle a 
little more grated cheese on the top with a spoonful of 
good gravy, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



261. OMELET WITH CHEESE, No. 2. 

Beat six eggs into a basin with a gill of cream ; salt and 
pepper to taste, with two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; 
shred very fine two ounces of Gruyfere cheese ; then proceed 
with the omelet in all respects like the others, and when 
nearly cooked draw the pan from the fire, spread the 
Gruyfere cheese over it, return the pan to the fire, fold 
nicely, and serve. 



262. OMELET WITH OYSTERS. 

Proceed and finish this omelet in the same manner as 
the foregoing, merely substituting oysters, prepared as for 
scallops, instead of cheese. 

263. OMELET PIEMONTAISE OR FONDU. 

Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan ; beat them 
well with a gill of cream and two ounces of butter ; cut in 
small dice one pound of Gruyfere cheese, put the half of it 
into the saucepan with the eggs, set the pan on a moderate 
fire, stir gently till the cheese begins to melt ; then add the , 
remainder of the cheese to it ; continue stirring, but very 
slowly, and do not let it boil. When properly worked and 
of the consistency of a Bechamel sauce, pour it into a hot 
dish, and serve with a few slices of truiBes spread on the 
top of it. 

264. 

Omelets can also be made with spinach, soirel, peas, 
asparagus, mushrooms (fresh and tinned), truffles, brains, 
giblets, &c., &c. The process of their composition is always 



122 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the same, only varying in the cooking of the different 
ingredients required to put with it. 

Note. — For all sweet omelets, snow eggs, &c., see Sweets. 



265. BREAD PANADA. 

Soak about half a pound of the crumb of stale bread in 
tepid water for a quarter of an hour; then put it on a 
cloth, fold, and wring it tightly to squeeze the water out ; 
after which, turn it into a stewpan with half a pint of white 
broth, set the stewpan on the fire and simmer till the 
broth is completely reduced, stirring all the time with a 
wooden spoon till the contents assume the consistency of a 
thick paste ; then add an ounce of butter, continue stirring 
for a few seconds, pour it into a plate and store it away in 
the larder ready for use. 



266. BICE PANADA. 

Put three ounces of rice into a saucepan, soak it with 
half a pint of white broth for about fifteen minutes ; set it 
on the fire and boil gently, without stirring, for another 
fifteen minutes ; add an ounce of butter, stir well on the 
fire for five minutes, rub the rice through a sieve, spread 
it on a plate, and put it in a cool place for future use. 



267. SEMOLINA PANADA. 

Put in a stewpan half a pint of white broth with one 
and a half ounce of butter ; boil ; draw the stewpan away 
from the fire, sprinkle into it four ounces of semolina flour, 
stir gently by the side of the fire till the semolina is nicely 
dried up, then turn it into a plate and put by, like the 
previous panada. 



, PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD .COOKERY. 123 

268. BREAD-RASPINGS. 

Save the pieces of stale bread, put them ia a tin dish iii' 
the oven over-jiight to dry until next morning, then pound 
in a mortar, pass through a fine wire sieve, and put in a 
tin box for use. 

269. BREADIN6S. 

For breadings, beat two eggs on a plate, and mix well 
with a tablespoonful of oil and a little salt and pepper. 
Rub through a wire sieve a few pieces of crumb of stale 
bread, put it in a tin dish in the oven to dry and get a 
bright golden colour, and then turn it into a closed box 
for use. 



CHAPTER V. 

FORCEMEAT— GARNISHING IN GENERAL— AND 
SALPICON. 

Forcemeat is a mixture of fat or lean meat, chicken, 
game, or fish, and the necessary seasoning, all well pounded 
together. These are very useful in cookery, and turned 
to good account for " hors-d'ceuvres " and " gratins," as well 
as for garnishing fish, entrdes, &c., &c., when made into 
quenelles. 

270. VEAL FORCEMEAT. 

Clean, peel, and cook four potatoes,; put in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter, and mash them properly ; turn 
the puree into a dish, and place the dish on the ice if 
in warm weather, or in a cool place in winter. Mean- 
time cut in small pieces, six ounces of a cushion of veal, 
and three ounces of the udder of veal. Melt one ounce of 
butter in a stewpan, and fry these till nicely browned ; 
moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of broth ; let them 
simmer till the lot is cooked and well glazed; add three 
ounces of chopped calf's liver; simmer for six minutes 
longer, and draw it away from the fire; let it get cold; 
after which, pound it in a mortar with one pound of raw 
flesh of veal, free from skin and sinew and chopped fine ; 
then add to it the mashed potatoes ; season with salt and 
pepper; sprinkle a little grated nutmeg, with one table- 
spoonful of B&hamel sauce and three eggs well beaten ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 125 

rub the mixture through a wire sieve into a basin, and put 
it in a cool place ready for use, either for quenelles or 
stuffing. 

270a. ANOTHER VEAL STUFFING. 

Chop fine half a pound each, of veal and bacon, both free 
from skin, gristle, and rind ; season well with salt, pepper, 
a little allspice, and grated nutmeg; add six sage-leaves 
well chopped, a teaspoonful of marjoram, and four blanched 
and finely-shred onions; pound these well together in a 
mortar, and place it in a stewpan with two ounces of 
melted butter; stir the contents over the fire for about 
eight minutes, then add the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, 
and continue the stirring and mixing for two or three 
minutes longer, when the stuffing is ready for use. 

271. CHICKEN FORCEMEAT FOR QUENELLES, 

Proceed for this forcemeat as in the previous number ; 
glaze the boned meat of a chicken in the same manner, but 
add the chicken's liver five minutes sooner; then pound 
and pass it through a sieve in the same way. 

272. ANOTHER CHICKEN FORCEMEAT. 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of raw chicken-breast, 
free from skin and fat ; add to it three spoonfuls of cold 
Bechamel sauce, the white of an egg, season with salt and 
a little nutmeg, rub it through a sieve with a little panada, 
and put by ready for use. 

273. GAME FORCEMEAT. 

Follow the same instructions for this forcemeat as for the 
veal, but substitute three ounces of fat bacon or ham for 



126 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the udder and hare-flesh or venison instead of veal, and 
when browning in butter add a glass of sherry or Marsala 
and a bay-leaf, which must be taken out of the stewpan 
and thrown away ; when the meat is cooked, then pound 
' it in the mortar, pass it through a wire sieve, and store 
away as before. 



274. CALF'S LIVER FORCEMEAT. 

Cut in small slices half a pound of fresh calf's liver, 
wash in water, and dry them afterwards with a cloth-; fry 
them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter for a few 
minutes ; moisten with veal broth and simmer till the liver 
is well cooked ; pour the contents in a mortar, and let it 
get cold ; then pound it with a trufile cut in dice, half a 
pound of raw liver, cleaned as aforesaid, one pound of 
mashed potatoes, the yolks of three eggs and a whole one ; 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. When well pounded and 
mixed together rub it through a wire sieve into a basin, 
and put by in a cool place. 



275. RAW FISH FORCEMEAT. 

Clean, cut, and bone about one pound of either cod, 
turbot, sole, whiting, pike, brill, or any other fish that may 
be had ; pound these raw pieces in a mortar, add six ounces 
of panada, the yolks of four eggs, and a quarter of a pound 
of butter, and season with salt and grated nutmeg. When 
the- lot is well pounded together rub it through a wire 
sieve into a basin, then mix it with two tablespoonfula of 
Veloutd sauce, and put it in a cool place ready to be made 
into quenelles. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 127 



276. ANOTHER FISH FORCEMEAT. 

Prepare one pound and a half of fish as in No. 275 ; fry 
the half of it in a stewpan with three ounces of butter and 
two shalots, chopped fine, for six or eight minutes j stir the 
while to give it a good turn all round ; after which, let it get 
cold. Then pound it in a mortar, with the other half of 
raw fish, add six ounces of mashed potatoes and one ounce 
of butter to it, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
and complete the mixture with an ounce of grated cheese 
sprinkled over it, and three eggs well beaten. When the 
whole is well pounded and properly mixed, rub it through 
a wire sieve into a basin, and keep it in a cool place till 
wanted. 

277. LOBSTER FORCEMEAT. 

Shell the meat out of one or two cooked lobsters, cut in 
small dice, and pound it well in a mortar with two ounces of 
butter ; add four ounces of panada, three ounces of butter, 
three eggs well beaten, a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a 
small pinch of cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, 
a,nd about half a pound of mashed potatoes ; pound the lot 
properly, and mix it well in the mortar. Rub it through 
a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, in the usual way, into a 
basin, and put it by in a cool place till wanted. 

Note. — Forcemeat should be used the same day it is made, 
especially fish forcemeat. 

The proper mode of forming forcemeat into quenelles for 
soups is as follows : — Make a paper funnel, put some of the 
forcemeat in it, close the top by folding the paper down, so 
as to enclose the forcemeat, cut the point of the funnel to 
the size required to shape the quenelles, and squeeze the 
forcemeat out upon a saut6-pan previously buttered, taking 



128 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

care to keep some of the forcemeat in the funnel, in order 
to enable you to put some more stuffing into it, without 
being compelled to make another funnel. These quenelles, 
however, must differ in this much, that those made for 
soups should be smaller and lighter than those intended 
for garnishing entries and other dishes. 



Remaeks on Garnishing in General, and on Truffles 
AND Mushrooms in Particular. 

Garnishing in cookery is principally made of vegetables, 
prepared and cooked in different ways, and like sauces, 
plays a great part in high-class cookery. In my attempt, 
however, to give a great variety, the fact must not be lost 
sight of, that the majority of them are within everybody's 
reach, as they include vegetables in general use, cooked 
with the meat and served around it. 

The most expensive item in a garnish is the truffle, a 
kind of tuber very highly appreciated on account of its 
aromatic flavour. The months in which it is at its best 
are November, December, and January; but it can, never- 
theless, be obtained nearly all the year round. 

The best truffles imported fresh into this country are 
black, and come from Perigord (France), but unless properly 
surrounded by mould from which they have been dug, they 
are subject to lose their very fragrance which endears them 
so much to epicures. The white Piedmontese truffles have 
a very high reputation for delicacy, scent, and flavour, but 
(unhappily for English epicures) they cannot bear a long 
journey or perhaps such a change of climate. 

The use of preserved truffles cannot be advocated, as 
their original perfume is nearly all lost. There are in this 
country plenty of fresh mushrooms, gathered daily in fields 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 129 

and woods for about eight months in the year, that might 
be turned to better advantage, and be in many instances a 
very good substitute for tinned truiHes. 



278. GARNISH OF CHESNUTS. 

Peel off the first skin of fifty chesnuts, boil the ches- 
nuts in water for five or six minutes, strain off the water, 
remove the second skin, and fry them in a saute-pan with 
two ounces of butter for a few minutes ; after which, add 
half a pint of good broth, let them simmer till cooked, 
giving an occasional toss to the pan, and when glazed all 
round, serve with a roast turkey or goose. 



279. GARNISH OF LETTUCES. 

Plainly cooked as well as stuffed lettuces are served as a 
garnish with or without being glazed. In either case cook 
the lettuces as directed in soups 42 and 43. 

280. GARNISH OF GLAZED ONIONS. 

Peel a dozen small onions of a similar size ; put them in 
a well-buttered saut^-pan with nearly a pint of good broth 
and a little sugar, let them simmer gently by the side of 
the fire, taking care to often turn the onions over, so as to 
give them an even colour all round, and when well glazed 
and properly cooked, serve them with braized meat. 

28L GARNISH OF MACEDOINE BECHAMEL. 
Blanch in the usual way in separate waters two carrots, 
three turnips, twenty-five asparagus-heads, a good handful 



I30 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

each, of peas and French beans, and three branches off the 
top of a cauliflower; strain off the different waters, cut 
the carrots and turnips in small fancy shapes, the French 
beans and asparagus in small diamonds; put the whole 
in a saut6-pan with half a pint of Bechamel sauce, two 
tablespoonfuls of chicken gravy, two ounces of butter, a 
piece of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg ; set the saut6- 
pan on the fire, simmer gently till the vegetables are 
properly glazed, then serve with veal cutlets, &o. 



282. GARNISH OF CELERY, 

Clean and cut in pieces of about half an inch long, four 
large heads of celery; blanch these in boiling salt water 
for five minutes, strain, and immerse in cold water, and 
lay them on a cloth. When nicely dried put them in a 
saute-pan with half a pint of broth, an ounce of butter, 
a piece of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste ; 
boil, and then simmer for about an hour ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of chicken gravy, see that the celery gets pro- 
perly glazed, and serve. 

Note. — ^If this garnish is required for poultry, add some 
Bechamel sauce and a gill of cream. 



283. GARNISH OF NEW CARROTS. 

Turn into pear-shape a bunch of new carrots, keeping 
them as much as possible of the same size; blanch for 
three or four minutes, strain the water, and put them 
in a saute-pan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of sallt, and 
a little sugar ; moisten with half a pint of good broth ; let 
the saute-pan boil, simmer to a nice glaze, taking care to 
roll the carrots in it, and when ready use them to garnish 
the intended dish. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 131 

284. GARNISH OF TURNIPS. 

Peel six turnips, cut or turn them into fancy shapes, 
boil ior five minutes in salt water, drain, and when dried 
throw them into a saute-pan with an ounce of butter, 
a pinch of salt, and a small piece of sugar ; moisten with 
half a pint of veal broth, let the pan boil, and when nearly 
cooked boil quickly down to a glaze, without letting the 
turnips acquire much colour, and serve as a garnish. 

285. GARNISH OF CUCUMBER. 

Peel two or three cucumbers ; cut them in slices of the 
thickness of half a crown ; put them in a large dish, sprinkle 
over a tablespoonful of salt, and moisten with vinegar; 
let them remain in this pickle for about two hours; 
after which, strain on a sieve and place in a saut6-pan 
with half an ounce of butter, half a pint of good broth, 
and a piece of sugar; set the pan to simmer gently for 
half an hour, then boil quickly to a glaze ; when well done, 
add half a pint of either Btehamel, Allemande, or Supreme 
sauce, as the case may be. 

286. GARNISH OF STEWED PEAS. 

Blanch a quart of new peas for five or six minutes, drain 
and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh 
butter, a little sugar, a pinch of salt, an onion, and a small 
faggot composed of mint and spring onions. Set the 
stewpan, with the cover on, on a moderate fire for the peas 
to stew, and when cooked boil quickly for a few minutes 
in order that they may absorb all their moisture ; then add 
a spoonful of B6chamel sauce, with a little butter, and dish 
them up with any entree. 



132 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



287. GARNISH OF ASPARAGUS-POINTS. 

Cut the points of as many asparagus as may be required, 
boil them in salt water and strain through a colander; 
when dried, throw them in a saute-pan with an ounce of 
butter or a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little sugar, 
nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of good gravy; toss them 
gently over the fire, and serve. 



288. GARNISH OF BUTTON ONIONS FOR MATELOTTE. 

Peel a pint of button onions ; blanch in salt water for 
five minutes; strain and put them in a saut6-pan with 
two ounces of clarified butter and a little pounded sugar. 
Set the saute-pan on a moderate fire, to fry the onions to 
a light-brown colour, taking care to toss them up now 
and then, that they may be equally coloured ; when they 
are nearly done place on a sieve to drain the butter off, 
return them afterwards to a small stewpan with a gill 
of broth, boil on a brisk fire, and reduce to a glaze before 
serving! 



289. GARNISH OF BROAD BEANS. 

Boil till cooked one quart of fresh Windsor beans, peel 
off their skin and place them in a saut^-pan with a pinch 
of pepper, salt, and nutmeg, half an ounce of butter, a 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce, arid the same quantity of 
blanched and chopped parsley ; shake and toss the lot well 
together on the fire, and serve in the centre of an entree. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 133 



290. GARNISH OF FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut a pound of French beans in diamond-shape pieces, 
boil them in salt water, strain, and put in a stewpan with 
an oimce of butter, a pinch of peppei', salt to taste, a spoon- 
ful of white sauce, and a little lemon-juice ; toss the lot 
well together on the fire, and serve as above. 



291. GARNISH OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Pick and wash one pint of Brussels sprouts, boil them 
in plenty of salt water till well done, strain and toss in a 
saut6-pan with two ounces of butter, a small pinch of 
pepper, a tablespoonful of white sauce, a little grated nut- 
meg, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 



292. GARNISH OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut the cauliflowers into small heads, dip in salt water 
for half an hour, then blanch them in the usual way ; drain 
and boil in another saucepan with salt and a little butter, 
and moisten with white broth. 

Cauliflowers for garnishing should not be too much 
cooked ; if so, they break in the dishing-up. 



293. GARNISH OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Peel a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, cut in fancy shapes, 
immerse in cold water to wash them well, then straia 
and put them in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, 
half a pint of white broth, a little sugar and salt to taste. 
Boil for about twenty minutes, reduce down to a glaze, 
add a spoonful or two of Bechamel or AUemande sauce, 
toss over the fire well together, and serve. 



134 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



294. GARNISH OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Take a pint of white haricot beans that have been soak- 
ing in water the whole of the, previous night ; place these 
in a stewpan with two quarts of cold water and a little 
salt; let boil, and simmer gently by the side of the fire 
for about an hour, strain them through a colander, put 
them in a saut6-pan with an ounce of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of white sauce, salt and pepper to taste, the 
juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of blanched and 
cTiopped parsley ; shake and toss the lot well together on 
the fire, and serve. 



295. GARNISH OF BRAIZED -CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and thoroughly cleanse two good Savoy 
cabbages ; cut them in halves and boil them in water for 
fifteen minutes ; immerse them in cold water, then drain 
and dry them with a cloth ; after which, cut the stalks 
away, season them with salt and pepper, and tie the two 
halves together with a string ; cover the bottom of a stew- 
pan with six slices of fat bacon, place the cabbages on 
them, with a carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and 
a " bouquet garni ; " moisten with enough broth to cover 
the cabbages, and spread a buttered round of paper over 
the whole ; let the stewpan boil, cover the stewpan 
with the lid, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for 
about an hour ; then drain the cabbages on a sieve, remove 
the string, press the cabbages gently with a dish or board 
so as to make the top flat and enable them to be cut after- 
wards into square, oblong, round, or oval shapes, according 
to fancy or taste, and with them garnish the dish it is 
intended. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 135 

296. GARNISH OF STEWED RED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and quarter a couple of red cabbages, shred 
them as if about to make pickled cabbage, then put about 
four ounces of butter in a stewpan with the cabbages, 
season with salt and pepper, add half a gill of vinegar, 
cover the stewpan with its lid, and set it on a moderate 
fire to simmer gently. Take care tcr give it an occasional 
stir with a wooden spoon. When the cabbages have been 
reduced to half their original quantity moisten with half 
a pint of ordinary stock ; if there is any skimming from 
the stock-pot, add it to it ; then let it again simmer for 
an hour ; after which, drain the cabbages on a sieve, press 
them in a clean cloth to extract the butter and fat, and 
use them as a garnish. 

297. GARNISH OF SAUERKRAUT. 

Get two pounds of German sauer-kraut, wash it thoroughly 
in several waters and drain in a colander, then put it in 
a stewpan with one pound of streaky bacon, one quart of 
broth, anJ one pint of the fat skimmed off the top of tho 
stook-pot, with a pinch of pepper ; cover the stewpan with 
its lid, let boil, and .simmer for at least four hours — if six, 
all the better — then drain it and serve with the bacon. If 
German sausages can be had, put half a dozen of them with 
the bacon. 

Note. — Sauer-kraut is better warmed up than when 
freshly cooked, and the more it is cooked the better. 

298. FRENCH SAUER-KRAUT. 

Split the white hearts of four cabbages into quarters, 
remove the cores, and shred them very fine; wash them 



136 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

thoroughly in several waters, and drain th«m well in a 
colander ; when properly dried, put the shred cabbage in 
a good-sized earthenware pan, throw in a good handful of 
salt, about a dozen pepper-corns, and a pint of good French 
vinegar ; toss, with your hands, the cabbage in this, and 
let it remain for four hours ; after which, take out, wash 
it well, and drain properly on a sieve j then put it in a 
stewpan with half a pound of butter, season with salt and 
pepper, add a gill of good vinegar, a pound of streaky 
bacon cut in slices and laid on the top; moisten with a 
quart of good broth, cover the lot with a buttered paper, 
and set the stewpan boiling with its lid on, let the contents 
simmer for about three hours, then proceed to strain and 
serve as above. 



299. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES IN GLAZE. 

Cut about half a pound of truffles into various fancy 
shapes, put these into a small stewpan with an ounce of 
fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a piece of glaze or a gill 
of condensed gravy, or same quantity of No. 4 gravy, 
cover the stewpan with its lid and let it simmer for ten 
minutes, toss the truffles in the stewpan with their own 
glaze, and use them to garnish as required by adding a 
little Supreme or any other sauce. 



300. TRUFFLES IN MADEIRA, SHERRY, OR CHAM- 
PAGNE AS A GARNISH. 

Cook the truffles in half a pint of the wine selected for 
five minutes, then proceed as above. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 137 

301. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS. 

Clean, peel, trim and cut away the gritty part near the 
stalk of a pound of fresh mushrooms, which must be 
white, full, and firm, or simply cut away the gritty part as 
above of a pint of tinned mushrooms, put them in a basin 
of cold water, stalks included, rinse well, dry with a 
cloth, and throw them into a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter, a pinch of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of 
broth, boil gently for five or six minutes, then pour the 
mushrooms into a bain-marie containing half a pint of 
Allemande sauce to keep hot till wanted. 

This garnish is proper for all white entries, &c. If a 
brown garnish of mushrooms is required, substitute Espag- 
nole sauce for Allemande, and omit the lemon-juice. 



302. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS WITH WINE. 

Mushrooms can also be cooked in wine, in the same 
manner as trufiles, and the sauce completed as in No. 301, 
to be used as a white or brown sauce. 



303. GARNISH OF COCKS-COMBS. 

Put one pound of cocks-combs in a stewpan with enough 
water to cover them ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire and 
stir with a wooden spoon till the skin begins to rise ; then 
pour in some cold water to stop the boiling of the combs 
and take them out ; strip off the skin and trim the part 
which has been cut from the head, so as to free it of all 
feathers; soak the combs in salted water for six hours; 
after which, immerse them in cold water, which must be 
frequently changed, until they become perfectly white ; 



138 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

then strain off the water, put the combs in a stewpan with 
a pint and a half of broth, salt to taste and the juice of a 
lemon, boil till cooked, and serve with the sauce required. 

Note. — Be careful not to boil the combs after the skin 
rises, otherwise the blood will coagulate and prevent them 
being white. 



304. GARNISH OF CHICKEN'S LIVER. 

Trim and throw away the bitter part of four chickens' 
livers, leave these whole, and immerse them in boiling 
water ; take them out of the boiling water at once to put 
them in a saucepan with some good beef or chicken gravy, 
a little white wine, a small faggot of thyme and parsley, 
and season with salt and pepper to taste; boil and let 
simmer till cooked, when they must be taken out, strained, 
cut in slices, and served with their liquor reduced to a nice 
glaze. 

305. GARNISH OF PRAWNS WITH CURRY. 

Pick the tails of one pound of good prawns and use 
them as a garnish with three tabl.espoonfuls of Indian 
sauce poured over them with or without rice. 



306. GARNISH OF MUSSELS. 

Scrape and wash in several waters the shells of two 
quarts of small mussels (the smallest are the most delicate), 
boil one quart at a time in a pint of French white wine 
with an onion sliced, three sprigs of parsley, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cover the stewpan, toss the mussels occa- 
sionally, and when the shells open the mussels are done ; 
take them out of the stewpan, throw the second quart in, 
and boil in the same manner. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD "COOKERY.. 139 

The cooking of a quart of mussels at a time is advisable, 
because, in the first instance, a pint of wine is saved, 
and the mussels are done more evenly than they would if 
they were all cooked in the pan at once. Be also careful in 
not letting them cook after the shells open, as they will 
only harden and shrink. 

When both quai-ts of mussels are cooked, take them out 
of the shells with a pointed knife and serve them with a 
white sauce made hot. 



307. SALPICON A L'lTALIENNE. 

Chop fine two sweetbreads, one pound of fresh mushrooms, 
and half a pound of cooked ham free from gristle and fat, 
then mix this compound well together, with half a pint of 
Finaneifere sauce. 

Salpicon is the culinary name for a mixture of cooked 
chicken, game, tongue, or fish with trufiles, mushrooms, 
and '■' foie-gras," the whole cut in small dice, and served 
hot, either in' patties, small bouch^es, or made into cro- 
quettes. 

308. SALPICON A LA PALERME. 

Mix with half a pint of hot Napolitaine sauce a quarter 
of a pound of cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, the 
breast of a cooked partridge, two or three cocks-combs, the 
hearts of four cooked artichokes, and two ounces of cooked 
ham all chopped fine and well mixed together. 

309. SALPICON A LA ROYALE. 

Mix well together, in equal parts, after being- chopped 
fine, some foie-gras, chicken meat, mushrooms, sweetbreads, 



I40 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

a little crayfish or lobster butter, and the necessarj' 
Bechamel sauce, which must be boiling at the time of 
mixing. 

310. SALPICON A LA FINANCIJ^RE. 

Chop fine two truffles, the breast of a cooked chicken, 
two ounces of cooked pickled tongue, and four ounces of 
fresh mushrooms ; then mix with Financiere sauce, and 
boil for a few minutes. 



311, SALPICON A LA TOULOUSE. 

Mix in equal parts, with half a pint of hot Velout6 sauce, 
some chicken and goose livers, mu.shrooms, and cocks-combs 
all chopped fine. 



312. SALPICON A LA JCHASSEUR. 

Mix with a salmi sauce the fillets of any game cut in 
small dice. 



313, SALPICON OF OYSTERS. 

Blanch the oysters for a few minutes, drain, and pre- 
pare in the usual way ; cut them in two and mix with a 
reduced Velout6 sauce ; add a few spoonfuls of the liquor 
in which they were cooked, and the juice of a lemon. 



314. SALPICON OF LOBSTER OR CRAB. 

Cut either the cooked lobster or crab in small dice; 
add these to a Bechamel or Velout^ sauce with a little 
lobster butter; season slightly with pepper, and mix well 
with a few chopped mushrooms. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 141 

315. SALPICON A LA MONGLAS. 

Mix with a reduced Veloute or Espagnole sauce the 
breast of a chicken, chopped up with truffles. 



316, SALPICON VALENCIENNES. 

Prepare a mixture of hearts of artichokes, mushrooms, 
the breast of a chicken, one carrot, the tails of two dozen 
prawns, or part of the tail of a lobster, all cooked ; add four 
tablespoonfuls of cooked rice; chop the lot fine, and mix 
with a Veloute sauce and a little cayenne butter. 



Observation with respect to French Words in 
Bills of Fare. 

I may say here, without prejudice, that I find the greatest 
difiiculty in translating certain culinary names into English. 
Although iny object is to be understood by all classes, I 
am often compelled to use original French words; being in 
many instances quite at a loss to express their proper 
meaning in English. This matter of using French names 
in " bills of fare" has often been discussed, and as it is 
still a subject of controversy in the culinary world, I simply 
give my reason for the practice I have adopted. 



CHAPTEE VI. 

REMARKS ON FRYING. 

TiiEEE are two ways of frying in England, the dry method 
(in French called saut6), as when you fry an onion or an 
omelet ; and the wet method, as when the article fried is 
immersed in the boiling fat and swims in it. 

The former is generally done in a frying, stew, or sautd 
pan with butter ; the latter in a f rying-kettle and drainer, 
with fat or dripping, lard or oil. Fat skimmed off Kroth 
and the light- coloured dripping of roast-beef properly clari- 
fied, are the cheapest and best items as a fat for frying 
purposes. When these are running short the following is 
the proper mode of obtaining some : — Mince and put in a 
frying-kettle any beef, mutton, veal, and chicken fat that 
you may have, with a little water, salt, pepper, and a bay- 
leaf ; set the frying-kettle on the fire and let it simmer till 
the fat is properly melted, taking care to stir occasionally. 
When the fat is clear enough to enable you to see the 
bottom of the pan, draw it away from the fire, and pass 
through a cloth and into the frying kettle again, as it is 
now ready for use. 

For good cooking, oil should always be used for frying 
fish only, and be kept apart in a special frying-kettle for 
that purpose, but careful attention- is needed in warming 
it, which should be done on a slow fire for half an hour, to 
prevent its rising and boiling over. 

When the frying fat becomes of a dark-brown colour it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 143 

must be clarified, which process is obtained by melting 
of the fat with water, or strained into hot water, when all 
the impurities will fall to the bottom of the kettle, and the 
clarified fat, once cold, can easily be removed in a solid 
state from the top of the water. 

When the fat has nearly attained a black colour, from 
constant use, it must not be employed again, as it will give 
bad taste and colour to everything fried in it, owing to its 
being decomposed, and having lost all its frjdng properties. 

No pains should be spared by cooks in order to thoroughly 
understand the proper means of frying, for although very 
simple and easy in its way, it requires a great deal of 
attention.. 

Frying is a special feature in Italian cookery, and 
practised above all others as an art, by the Italians. Their 
ingenuity and abilities at frying are, I must say, superior 
to all other nations. In the first instance, it is of the 
utmost importance that the different degrees of tempera- 
ture in the fat should previously be ascertained by the 
cooks, whose attempts at frying will otherwise often turn 
out failures. 

There are many degrees of heat and boiling among 
the different liquids. Water boils at a temperature of 
212° Fahrenheit, and will never reach a higher one. Fat 
and oil will attain from 500° to 650° before coming to the 
boiling-point; this is the reason why fat is used instead 
of water. If the same tempei-ature could be obtained with 
water as with fat, frying would be better in the former, as 
there would be no greasy taste. 

The different degrees of heat are generally determined 
by throwing a small sprig of parsley or a piece of crumb 
of bread the size of a small nut into the fat ; if ebullition 
and fizzing is at once produced and large bubbles rise to the 
surface, the fat has reached the desired temperature for 



144 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

frying purposes, which will be about 385° Fahrenheit. A 
too high temperature must be avoided, which will be in- 
dicated by smoke rising from the kettle ; in that case the 
articles fried would be blackened and burnt ; on the other 
hand, if the fat has not reached the proper temperature 
the things intended for frying will be soaked through with 
fat, soddened, greasy, and of a dirty pale colour, but not 
fried. 

Properly fried things should be of a golden colour, 
crisp, and free from fat j to obtain the latter, fried articles 
should be put on a clean cloth as they are taken out of the 
frying-kettle, and then turned over. 

Frying is most successful when a small quantity is put 
at a time, otherwise the reaction of too many cold things 
will cause the fat fall below the necessary temperature and 
spoil the frying process. All articles to be fried should be 
properly dried between the folds of a clean cloth and passed 
through a mixture of breadings (if' batter is not used) 
beforehand. 



317. BATTER PASTE FOR FRYING. 

Batter is a thin paste often required for frying fish, 
meat, vegetables, and fruit. 

Put half a pound of white sifted flour into a basin with 
a little salt, white pepper, the yolks of two eggs (save the 
whites), a spoonful of vinegar or the juice of a lemon, and 
half a gill of olive-oil ; work the whole into a double creamy 
paste, adding in, a spoonful at a time, about half a pint of 
cold water ; when properly worked let it stand by. Mean- 
while whisk well the two whites of egg set apart, and mix 
with the batter a few minutes before it is wanted. 

For fritters, white wine or beer can be substituted for 
water, and add a little pounded cinnamon. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 145 



\R,EMARKS ON HoES-D'OEuVRES OR SiDE DiSHES. 

Hors-d'oeuvres, or side dishes, are tasty dainties, the 
object of which' is to stimulate and sharpen the appetite, 
and they are served and eaten either before or after the 
soup. These are divided into two parts, the cold and hot 
hors-d'oeuvres ; the former are usually prepared and dished 
up in small oval dishes, decorated with parsley and put 
on the table by the butler ; but in smaller establishments 
where the duties of that office are discharged by female 
servants it invariably falls upon the cook to dress up these 
decorative dishes, which generally consist of salami, a kind 
of raw Italian or Lyons sausage, fresh butter, slices of ham, 
sardines, tunny-fish, anchovies, radishes, olives, gherkins, 
smoked herrings or salmon, melon, foie-gras, caviare, 
oysters, &&, &c. 

The hot hors-d'oeuvres are very numerovis and far more 
complicated than the cold ones, the majority of which are 
more substantial, and in many instances differ but slightly 
from "entries." These are served directly after the soup, 
and are composed of many items, such as patties and 
bouchees of all description, croustades, coquilles, rissoles, 
croquets, cromeskis, mixed fritters, such as brains, liver, 
sweetbread, scollops, &c., &c. 



318. PATTIES WITH ANY SALPICON OR FORCEMEAT. 

Patties and bouchees are made out of puff paste, and the 
following is the proper mode of making them : — 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the- pastry slab ; make 
a well in the centre of the flour, and pour in it one gill 
and a half of cold water, with half an oupce of salt and 

K 



146 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the yolk of an egg. Mix these gradually with the flonr, 
and when done, and the paste is about half-mixed, sprinkle 
in another gill of water, mix all the flour and work it to 
a smooth paste until it ceases to adhere to the slab or 
hands ; then roll it out to a round piece. Now take one 
pound of butter, put it in a clean cloth and press it, to 
extract any milk or water it may contain ; lay the butter 
on the paste, flatten both to a thickness of about two 
inches, then fold the four sides of the paste to the centre 
to enclose the butter and form a square piece. Next take 
a rolling-pin, roll the paste with it to about the length 
of three feet, fold over one-third of the length, and fold 
the other third over this. 

This is called "giving one turn,"^ and as it constantly 
recurs in all recipes for making pastry, I deem it advisable 
to give its meaning. 

Let the paste rest for ten minutes on the slab in a cool 
place, then give it two turns ; ten minutes after, two turns 
more ; and five minutes after this, another turn, making 
in all six turns. Then roll it out to about a quarter of 
an inch thick. Take a one and three-quarter inch paste- 
cutter, cut the paste with it into twenty-four rounds; 
gather the trimmings into a lump, and roll it out to the 
same thickness as the first; cut it also into twenty-four 
similar rounds, place these on a wet baking sheet, moisten 
the surface with a brush dipped in water, and put a small 
quantity of salpicon or forcemeat, previously made, on 
each ; then take up one of the first cut rounds and reverse 
it on to the forcemeat, so as to cover it; repeat this till 
all the patties are covered, press the two pieces of paste 
lightly together with the top of a plain inch and a quarter 
cutter, brush them over with the yolk of two eggs well 
beaten, put them to bake in a brisk oven till they have 
reached a nice golden colour, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 147 

319. BOUCHi^ES A L'lTALIENNE. 

Make two pounds of puff paste in the manner described 
in the previous number, but give it seven turns, wetting 
the last turn before folding it ; then roll the paste out so 
as to leave it scarcely a quarter of an inch thick, and about 
three minutes afterwards take a two-inch fluted circular 
tin cutter, and with it cut the paste into bouchdes; but 
previously to cutting out each bouch^e the cutter should 
be first dipped in very hot water. As soon as the bouchees 
are cut out place them immediately in rows, two inches 
apart, on a baking sheet, previously wetted; then eg-g 
them carefully all over with a soft brush dipped jn beaten 
eggs, and stamp them in the centre by making a slight 
incision through their surface with a plain inch and a half 
circular cutter, which must also be dipped in hot water 
each time it is used. The bouchees should then be quickly 
put in the oven and baked of a light colour; when done 
remove the covers or tops, pick out the inner crumb care- 
fully with the point of a small knife, then fill up each 
bouch^e with a salpicon k I'ltalienne, previously made hot, 
replace the covers at the top, and serve dished "up on a 
folded napkin. 

320. BOUCHEES A LA PALERME. 

Prepare the bouchees as in No. 319, and fill them up 
afterwards with a salpicon k la Palermo. 

321. BOUCHlfiES A LA ROYALE. 

Proceed with the bouchees as described in No. 319, 
then fill them up with a salpicon k la Royale previously 
made hot. 



148 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

322. 

Bouchdes k la Financifere, k la Toulouse, k la Chasseur, 
with oysters, lobsters, crabs, h la Monglas, and k la 
Valenciennes are all made in the same manner. 

323. CROUSTADES A LA TOULOUSE. 

Make a paste with one pound of sifted flour, a pound of 
butter, the yolks of two beaten eggs, and a pinch of salt, 
and mix these with about half a pint of water to a softish 
paste. When quite smooth gather it up in a lump, and 
let it rest on the ice for an hour ; after which, roll it out 
to the sixteenth of an inch thick, and line eighteen small 
croustade moulds with it ; fill these with flour and bake 
them ; when the paste is done, and has attained a nice 
straw-colour, take them out of the oven, turn the flour out, 
brush the inside of the croustades with a brush, and put 
them in the oven for two minutes longer to colour; then 
till them with a salpicon k la Toulouse, pour a little Veloute 
sauce over each, and place some puff-paste covers on each 
top, previously made with " seven turns " paste, rolled to 
a quarter of an inch thick, cut with a two-inch fluted cutter, 
and baked as before. 

Croustades, according to taste, can be varied with any 
salpicon, 

324. COqUILLES A LA CHASSEUR. 

The natural shells of' scallops, if kept clean, are not 
objectionable for this hors d'ceuvre, but the silver shells or 
coquilles, as they are called, are to be preferred. 

Fill the number of shells required with the salpicon 
a la Chasseur, sprinkle the tops with fried bread-crumbs, 
put them into the oven to warm, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 149 

Proceed in the same way with any other sort of coquilles, 
and if you have any fish left from the previous day's 
dinner, bone it, cut it in small dice, and mix with a little 
butter, the juice of a lemon, salt to taste, a little Veloute 
sauce and essence of mushrooms, fill the shells with this 
mixture, strew fried bread-crumbs over the tops, set them 
in the oven to warm and brown, before serving. 



325. RISSOLES OF CHICKEN. 

Roll out some " six turns " puff paste to a quarter inch 
thickness, cut out some rounds with a fluted three -inch 
cutter, lay some chicken forcemeat the size of a walnut on 
each round, place a round of paste over each forcemeat, 
till they are all opycred, a.-jd press the edges so as to stick 
them together. 

Set the fiying-kettle on the fire, and when the fat is of 
the right temperature fry the rissoles in it ; then drain and 
dress them on a dish, on a folded napkin, garnish with 
fried parsley, and sei-ve. 

Any other forcemeat or salpicon can be turned into 
rissoles by the same process. 



326. CROQUETS OF LOBSTER. 

Make some salpicon of lobster and lay flat with a knife 
on a board, previously strewed with bread-crumbs ; then 
divide the mixture in equal-sized parts and roll them with 
the hand to the shape of a cork ; pass them afterwards in 
breadings, and then in the bread-crumbs. 

Set the frying-kettle on the fire ; when the fat is hot 
enough, fry them till they are crisp and of a light-brown 
colour ; drain on a cloth in the usual way ; sprinkle each 



ISO PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with a little salt, put them on a napkin on a dish, and 
garnish with a little fried parsley before serving. 

Perigueux or Tomato sauce is generally servpd with 
croquets. 

Whatever kind of croquets may be wished for or re- 
quired, their process is always the same. 



^27. CROMESKIS A LA RUSSE. 

Chop up the fillets of a roast fowl into very small dice, 
and put them on a plate with half their quantity of mush- 
rooms and truffles also chopped fine; stir half a pint of 
Bechamel or Allemande sauce over the fire until stiffly 
reduced, then throw in the minced chicken mushrooms and 
truffles ; mix the lot well together, then spread it out about 
an inch thick on a dish and let it cool ; atteivwhich, cut the 
mixture into pieces about the size of two walnuts, form 
these into egg-shapes, and place them on a-ttish. Mean- 
while have ready a calf's udder, previously braized for the 
purpose, and cut when cold into very thin layers, just large 
enough to wrap each cromeski with ; then dip them ia some 
light batter paste, and fry them crisp, and to a nice golden 
colour, in plenty of lard, heated to the right temperature-, 
fof the purpose; dish thein up with fried parsley and 
serve hot. 

Note. — Cromeskis can be made in the same manner with 
any other salpicon. 



yMoDE OF Peeparing Sweetbread, Brains, Liver, aud 
Scollops op Yeal before Cooking them. 

Whatever style of serving sweethread may be contem- 
plated, they must always be Soaked in water for at least 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 151 

three hours, taking care to change the water occasionally ; 
after which, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold 
water, set the saucepan on the fire to boil, and as soon as 
they become firm and round, without, however, being hard, 
draw the saucepan away from the fire, immerse them in 
cold water, then drain on a cloth and press them between 
two boards or baking tins, with a four or five pound-weight 
on the top. 

Brains must steep in cold water for about an hour, 
iluring which time the water must be changed twice, then 
pick out most carefully all skinny particles from the 
surface of the brains. Blanch them in boiling water for 
five minutes and inimerse them in cold. 

Ldver must be of a bright pinkish colour and entirely 
free from whitish spots. Wash and wipe the quantity of 
liver required, then out it into Scollops or slices of about 
a quarter of an inch thick, and roll them in flour before 
frying. 

Scollops are generally cut off from the cushion of leg of 
veal, previously freed from gristle, fat, and skin ; they are 
cut in the same style and thickness as the liver, and should 
be flattened with the chopper or cutlet bat, dipped in water, 
before frying. 

328. SWEETBREAD AND BRAINS FRIED A 
L'lTALIENNE. 

Take two sweetbreads and two brains, prepared as indi- 
cated above, and cut each in scollops of about an inch thick. 
Mix well in a dish, a gill of good oil, half a gill of vinegar, 
and a pinch of salt ; soak the scollops in it for about half 
an hour, then take them out and dip in some batter 
paste, previously made for this purpose, and drop them 
separately into the frying fat properly heated, and with 
a flat skimmer toss up each scollop gently till they become 



152 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of a. golden colour and crisp; then take them out, and 
place on a clean cloth which will absorb all the fat ; 
sprinkle some salt on each, dress them on a napkin on 
a dish by placing alternately one brain scollop and one 
sweetbread, decorate with a little fried parsley, and serve 
as hot as possible. 



329. ANOTHER FRIED SWEETBREAD, BRAIN AND 
LIVER (ITALIAN). 

Cut in the same manner as above one sweetbread and 
two brains, after having soaked and blanched them as pre- 
scribed ; cut also half a pound of liver in scollops ; pass 
each in breadings and bread-crumbs. Put a quarter of a 
pound of clarified butter in a frying-pan on the fire, fry 
the scollops in it to a light-brown colour, then drain and 
dry them on a cloth, squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
them, sprinkle each with salt to taste, dish them up 
alternately on a hot dish, and serve. 



330. BRAINS FRIED (CITIZEN STYLE). 
Prepare four brains in the usual way; after which, cut 
them in slices of about half an inch thick. Beat the yolks 
of six eggs in a basin, and mix with an ounce of grated 
cheese, half an ounce of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, and 
a little pepper; whisk the whites of the six eggs to a snow 
froth. Put a quarter of a pound of clarified butter into 
a large frying-pan on the fire, mix gently the whites of the 
eggs with the yolks, and draw the pan away from the fire 
when the butter is melted. Put the whole of the mixture, 
a spoonful at a time, properly detached from each other, in 
the frying-pan ; lay well imbedded in the centre of each 
spoonful of the egg-mixture a slice of brains; set the pan 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 153 

on the fire to fry for three minutes, then turn each com- 
pound over and fry them for another three minutes ; when 
of a nice golden colour on both sides, dish them with the 
side of the brain up, sprinkle each with a little salt, and 
serve very hot. 

Note. — Any kind of cooked meat, poultry, or game can be 
mixed with the eggs as well as the brains. A little minced 
parsley and garlic mixed with the eggs will give a good 
taste to the above items. 



331. SWEETBREAD OR BRAINS FRIED (MILANAISE 
STYLE), 

Cut either the sweetbread or brains, after having been 
duly blanched, as in No. 330. Beat six eggs in a basin with 
a little finely chopped parsley and the clove of a garlic; 
season with salt and pepper, when well beaten together 
dip the slices in it, and roll them aftenyards in bread- 
crumbs, and form thern in oval or round shapes. Put a 
quarter of a pound of clarified butter into a frying-pan, and 
when dissolved fry on a moderate fire, taking care to turn 
them over so as to give each side a nice golden colour, 
when they are cooked, and must be served hot. 

332. LIVER FRIED A LA MILANAISE. 
Take two pounds of calf's liver, cut it in scollops as 
described, pass these in breadings and bread-crumbs, then 
fry them in a frying-pan with a quarter of a pound of 
clarified butter on a moderate fire, turn the pieces over 
to give them a nice bronzed colour on both sides, and when 
tender to the touch sprinkle some salt and a teaspoontul 
of chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and 
serve. 



154 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

333. LIVER FRIED A LA PALERMO. 

Scollop two pounds of calf's liver as No. 332, and flour 
tliem, then fry in the same manner as in the foregoing, and 
dress them on a hot dish. Leave the, frying-pan by the 
side of the fire; chop very fine six fresh mushrooms, a 
little parsley, and a clove of garlic ; put these in the frying- 
pan with a glass of French white wine and a gill of good 
broth ; season with salt and pepper, boil for five minutes, 
then add the juice of a lemon, stir nicely, pour the sauce 
over the Hver, and serve. 

The liver of sheep, chickens, lambs, and pigs can also be 
fried and garnished in the same way, but substitute a little 
vinegar for wine. 



334. VEAL SCOLLOPS FRIED A LA GENOISE. 

Take two pounds of leg of veal, free from skin, fat, 
and gristle, cut in scollops and fry them in the same 
manner as in No. 333, but substitute oil for butter; after 
which, prepare a similar mixture for the sauce, and serve. 

Scollops of mutton, beef, and pork can also be fried, and 
served with a similar sauce. 



335, OYSTERS FRIED. 

Blanch two dozen large oysters, press them lightly 
between two dishes till they are cold ; then slit them open, 
without quite severing them, dip in frying batter, and fry 
in hot fat ; drain and pile on a napkin on a dish garnished 
with fried parsley, and serve with Tomato sauce in a boat 
apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 155. 



336. FRIED ANCHOVIES. 

Steep two dozen anchovies in cold water for about two 
hours, or till they are easily opened, and bone them ; 
wipe off the scales, by rubbing them with a coarse cloth ; 
trim the anchovy fillets . to an even shape and steep in 
milk for an hour, drain, wipe, and pass them through the 
breadings J then fry in very hot fat, drain, and pile them 
up on a napkin on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve with two lemons cut in quarters. 



CHAPTEE VII. 

REMARKS ON TRIPE. 

Tripe is a delicious dish when prepared properly, but it 
must always be cleaned, scraped, and boiled in plenty of 
water for several hours before any attempt at cooking 
it can ever be contemplated. This of course only applies to 
country places, where tripe can only be had in its raw state, 
but in towns it can always be bought ready blanched. 

337. TRIPE MILLANAISE. 

Shred fine a carrot, an onion, and one head of celery ; 

fry these in a stewpan with two ounces of butter ; when 

nicely browned moisten them with half a pint of bi'oth, 

add a " bouquet garni " composed of sage, thyme, and a 

bay-leaf, simmer gently for half an hour ; then rub the 

lot through a sieve, throw the bouquet away, and return 

the sauce to the stewpan, with one pound and a half of 

tripe, previously shred in pieces about two inches long by 

half an inch wide ; add a good rasher of streaky bacon 

or a slice of gammon cut in small dice, season with salt 

and" pepper, moisten the lot with a pint of broth, and let 

it simmer for half an hour ; stir occasionally with a wood en 

spoon, then add a ladleful of Espagnole sauce, st\r and 

when boiling serve on a hot dish, with grated ct^eese on a 

plate apart. 

156 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 157 

338. TRIPE A LA ROMAINE. 

Take one pound and a half of cleaned and blanched tripe, 
cut it in about two-inch squares ; put these in a sauce- 
pan with a pint and a half of good gravy or condensed 
broth, season with salt and pepper, add a bay-leaf, and let 
simmer for three-quarters of an hour on a slow fire, give 
it an occasional stir, and serve on a hot dish with grated 
cheese apart. 

339. TRIPE A L'lTALIENNE. 

Proceed in the same manner as for the Milanaise. 
Peel two tomatoes ; squeeze out the water and rub them 
through a sieve ; add this pur^e to the tripe at the same 
time as the broth, and let it simmer for half an hour ; 
then pour in half a pint of green peas, a few fresh mush- 
rooms cut in slices, season with salt and pepper, simmer 
again for twenty minutes, stir occasionally, and serve with 
grated cheese apart. 



340. TRIPE (CITIZEN STYLE). 

Fry in a stewpan with two ounces of butter one onion 
shred fine, a clove of garlic chopped very fine, and a slice 
of gammon cut in small dice ; when these are properly 
browned sprinkle over three tablespoonfuls of flour, stir 
with a wooden spoon, and fry for two or three minutes 
longer; then add one pint of broth, same quantity of 
French white wine, a small "bouquet garni," and two 
pounds of tripe cut in slices, as in the Milanaise. Boil, 
stir nicely, add salt and pepper to taste, cover the stewpan 
and let it simmer for an hour, giving it an occasional stir 
to prevent burning; then take out the "bouquet garni," 



158 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

sprinkle two handfuls of grated cheese over the contents, 
stir it well, and serve on a hot dish with a little more grated 
cheese sprinkled on the top of it. 

One or two calves' feet properly boiled and boned will 
improve this dish if added at the same time as the tripe. 

341. TRIPE A LA LYONNAISE. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a frying-pan, add three 
onions shred fine, and when beginning to brown put with 
it one pound and a half of tripe, cut as in No. 340 ; stir 
with a wooden spoon, fry for about twenty minutes, season 
with salt and pepper, and just before serving sprinkle a 
little finely chopped parsley with a few drops of French 
vinegar ; stir well, and serve on a hot dish. 

This tripe when cooked should be crisp and of a light- 
brown colour. 

342. TRIPE AND ONIONS. 

Cook six onions in salt water; wheh done squeeze the 
water out of them and chop-them fine. Meantime boil one 
pound and a half of tripe (cut as in the foregoing) in a pint 
and a half of fresh milk, and after an hour's ebullition, 
having given it an occasional stir to prevent the tripe 
burning, mix the onions with it, season with salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg, boil, stir, and serve. 

343. ANOTHER TRIPE AND ONIONS. 

Proceed as above, but instead of milk use veal broth. ' 

344. TRIPE FRIED. 

Shred in the same shape as in the foregoing two pounds 
of tripe, dip these in frying batter and fry afterwards in 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 159 

fat, properly heated for the purpose. When crisp and of a 
nice light-brown colour, drain and serve on a hot dish, with 
a little tomato sauce in a sauce-boat apart. 



345. SHEEP'S KIDNEYS GRILLED. 

Slit the kidneys lengthwise, without cutting through the 
sinew, remove the thin skin which covers them, and run 
them on a small skewer (two on 'each), then sprinkle with 
a little salt and pepper ; place these on a grid- iron over a 
clear fire with the open side downwards. When done brown 
turn them over, and let them remain three minutes longer ; 
after which, put them on a hot dish, draw the skewer 
away, and lay on each kidney a little cold mattre d'hotel ov 
cayenne butter, and serve. 



346. SHEEP'S KIDNEYS STEWED WITH FINE HERBS. 

Split the kidneys as before directed, cut them into thin 
scollops, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and fry 
them brown in a frying-pan with a little butter ; then add 
a tablespoonful each of chopped mushrooms and parsley, 
and two shalots also chopped fine ; let the lot fry for a few 
minutes longer; after which, sprinkle a tablespoonful of 
flour and moisten with a glass of sherry ; let this simmer 
for three minutes, then add two or three spoonfuls of brown 
broth or gravy, simmer another five minutes, squeeze tlie 
juice of a lemon, toss it up and mix well together, draw 
the frying-pan away from the fire, form a border of mashed 
potatoes on a dish, pour the kidneys in the centre, and 
serve. 



i6o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

34.7. SHEEP'S KIDNEYS STEWED A LA CLEREMONT. 

Scollop and fry the kidney as in No. 346, and when 
nicely browned draw the frying-pan by the side of the 
fire. Meanwhile shred two onions and fry them in a stew- 
pan, with two ounces of butter, to a fine yellow colour; 
drain off the butter, add a pinch of pepper, a few spoon- 
fuls of good broth, and a little Espagnole sauce ; boil ; skim, 
and let simmer till properly reduced ; then mix it with the 
kidneys, stir nicely with a wooden spoon, simmer for 
three or four minutes, and serve with a border of potato 
croquets. 

348. VEAL KIDNEYS STEWED A LA ROMAINE. 

Cut a veal kidney in half, remove the fat part and slice 
the pieces very thin. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter 
well in a frying-pan on a brisk fire, fry the pieces of 
kidney in it, when about half-cooked add an onion and 
a little parsley chopped very fine, sprinkle over, a table- 
spoonful of flour, season with salt and pepper, continue 
the frying for a few minutes longer, then add a glass of, 
white wine, let simmer for a few minutes, and just before 
serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and toss the 
contents well, and serve with a puree of vegetables. 

349. VEAL KIDNEYS BROILED A LA L'INDIENNE. 

Cut lengthwise a veal kidney in two, flatten these slightly 
with the bat, season with salt and pepper, dip each piece 
in oil, roll them afterwards in bread-crumbs, and broil four 
minutes each side, on a good fire. Meanwhile prepare a 
curry butter, garnish the brim of a dish round with plain 
boiled rice, place the kidneys in the centre, put the curry 
butter on it, and serve hot. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. i6i 



350. BEEF KIDNEY A LA PIEMONTAISE. 

Cut a beef kidney in two, trim it in the usual way, and 
slice it in thin scollops, season with salt and pepper, dip 
the scollops in batter, and fry with butter till of a brown 
colour ; then serve with a garnish of fried parsley and 
tomato sauce in a boat apart. 



351. SHEEP'S TONGUES WITH SPINACH. 

TaJse six fresh sheep's tongues ; blanch them for five 
minutes, to enable the white skin to be removed; then 
trim and put them in a saut6-pan with about a pint of 
broth, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, season with salt and 
pepper; set the saut6-pan on the fire to the boil, and let 
simmer until the tongues are well cooked and nicely glazed ; 
then take them out, cut them lengthways in halves and 
return them to the saut6-pan. Meantime dish some puree 
of spinach, previously made for this purpose ; decorate the 
dish with fried croutons, place the pieces of tongue over 
the spinach nicely arranged, pour the remainder of the 
glaze over them, and serve. 



352. SHEEP'S TONGUES WITH GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Blanch, trim, cook, and dish up six sheep's tongues, as 
in No. 351, then pour some Gherkin sauce (No. 192) in 
the centre, and serve. 



353. SHEEP'S TONGUES A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Braize and trim the tongues as above, and when cut 
in halves let them get cold, then pass them through the 

L 



i62 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

breadings, flatten them nicely with the blade of a knife 
and fry them in fat, properly heated for the purpose ; drain 
in the usual way, and dish them up in the form of a close 
circle, the centre of which must be filled with macaroni 
(No. 88), and serve. 



354. SHEEP'S FEET, WITH OIL AND VINEGAR. 

Chop very fine about two ounces of beef suet, and melt 
it in a saucepan over the fire, and when clear add two 
ounces of flour, two quarts of water, one onion sliced, 
a " bouquet garni," two cloves, a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and a little salt and pepper ; stir the lot over the fire, 
and when boiling drop in it eight sheep's feet, previously 
blanched, cleaned, and trimmed ; let them boil for about 
three hours and a half, when they should be done, and 
tender ; then strain, and put them on a dish with a sauce 
made in the following manner : — Put in a basin a gill 
of oil, half a gill of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, 
a good pinch of pepper, half a tablespoonful each of finely 
chopped parsley and onion, beat the lot well together 
before pouring it over the cooked feet, and serve. 

Sheep's feet can also be served with a Sharp, Poulette, or 
any other sauce. 



355. CALF'S HEAD TOMATO SAUCE. 

Select, according to the size required, a white calf's head, 
cut it in two, dip these into boiling water to clean the ears 
out, then bone them entirely, cut the tongue out, and put 
the brains to steep in cold water ; soak the head and tongue 
for a little while also in cold water, then blanch both in 
bo.iling water for ten minutes ; strain, and take off the white 
skin from the tongue ; put the two halves and tongue in a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 163 

clean cloth, with two or three slices of gammon, two sliced 
onions, one shred carrot, one bay-leaf, and a few slices of 
lemon, fold these together, and put the bundle into a large 
saucepan with enough cold water to cover it well ; season 
with salt, add a " bouquet garni," an onion with three 
cloves stuck in, and one head of celery. Let the saucepan 
boil, and then simmer for about three hours j after which, 
take the cloth out, stretch the tongue so as to give it its 
original shape, cut each half in four, keep the ears in 
square pieces, wipe the inside of these nicely with a cloth, 
and slit them with a pointed knife into narrow strips, 
taking care hot to run the knife through the ends, but 
merely from the inner part to within half an inch of the 
point, so that when the ear is turned down it will present 
the appearance of a looped frill. Now cut the tongue in 
half, lengthways, without separating it altogether, dress 
these on an oval dish on a napkin, with the ears at each 
end and the pieces of head in the centre, decorate with 
green parsley, and serve with a pint of tomato sauce in 
a boat apart. 

Calf's head can be served with oil and vinegar as for the 
sheep's feet (No, 354), in which case add a tablespoo'nful of 
capers and two very thinly sliced gherkias, and four hard- 
boiled eggs cut in two. It can also be served with Italian, 
Sharp, Eavigote, or Devilled sauce. 

Note. — It is customary in this country to serve a piece 
of boiled streaky bacon with the calf's head. Of this I 
do not approve ; neither can I recommend the parsley and 
butter sauce served with it, which is far too insipid. 



356. CALF'S FEET FRIED, ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Kemove the large bone of four calf's feet, cut them in 
halves, blanch for ten minutes, then boil for about two 



i64 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

hours and a half in a liquor made as for the sheep's feet ; 
when done bone them, cut each in four, dip these pieces 
in a batter paste and fry in hot fat, in the usual way; 
then serve the pieces dished up with some Italian sauce 
apart. 

Calf's feet can also be served h la poulette ; in that case, 
when they are done, do not fry them, but warm about one 
pint of Poulette sauce, and mix the pieces with it, and serve. 

They can also be cut in halves, cooked as in the fore- 
going, bread-crumbed, and broiled on a slow fire, and served 
with a Tartare sauce apart. 



357. OX-PALATE FRIED. 

Blanch in boiling salt water for ten minutes four ox- 
palates ; drain, cool and scrape to remove the white skin ; 
when properly trimmed put them in a saucepan with one 
quart of broth, two slices of gammon, and a "bouquet 
garni ; " let them boil gently for about three hours ; then 
drain the palates on a sieve and let them get cold. In 
the meantime put a quart of Velout6 sauce in a stewpan 
on the fire and reduce it to half its original quantity by 
sharp boiling, then add the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, 
scraped into crumbs, a tablespoonful of parsley previously 
blanched and chopped very fine, salt and pepper to taste, 
the juice of a lemon, and an ounce of butter ; mix these 
well together, then draw the stewpan away from the fire. 

Take the ox-palates and split them in halves length- 
ways ; each of these must be cut across again in two and 
placed on a large dish or board ; put with a spoon the 
mixture prepared in the stewpan, properly divided on 
each of the pieces of palate ; roll them up in the form of 
cartridges, pass them afterwards in the breadings, and a 
few minutes before serving fry them in the frying-kettle 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 165 

with the fat previously heated very hot for the purpose. 
If the fat is not very hot, the cartridges will open and 
separate from the stuffing. Dish them up nicely and serve 
with a little fried parsley. 

Ox-palates can also be served with an Italian, Sharp, 
Tomato, or curry sauce. 



358. OX-CHEEK WITH PUR^E OF VEGETABLE. 

Bone an ox-cheek, immerse it in cold water for about an 
hour, blanch in the usual way for five minutes, and dip 
in cold water ; then drain and trim it ; put it afterwards 
in a large stewpan with the bones at the bottom, add the 
same sorts and quantity of vegetables as for a soup, together 
with a " bouquet gai-ni," two quarts of water, and a table- 
spoonful of salt ; boil and let simmer for two hours ; after 
which, take the cheek up very carefully with a flat skimmer 
and press it between two dishes ; strain the broth through 
a fine sieve ; remove the half of it to a cool place to be 
used later on for brown sauces, &c., and boil down the 
other half to a" half-glaze. Meanwhile cut up the ox-cheek 
in small pieces of equal size, place them in a saut6-pan 
with the half-glaze, cover the pan with its lid, and simmer 
for about ten minutes ; roll the pieces nicely in their glaze, 
dish them up in a circle, fill the centre with a pur6e of 
vegetable, pour the glaze over, and serve. 



359. OX-CHEEK A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare an ox-cheek in the same manner as in the 
previous number, but instead of a pur^e of vegetable as 
a garnish, use some ripe tomatoes au gratin, as a border, 
and pour a little Italian sauce in the centre before serving. 



i66 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

360. FRESH OX-TONGUE WITH GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Immerse a fresli ox-tongue in boiling water for a few 
minutes, to enable the white skin to be removed by- 
scraping ; then lard it with a small larding-needle in the 
following manner : — Trim about half a pound of fresh fat 
bacon two inches long by about three wide, cut this in 
strips a quarter of an inch thick, soak them for an hour in 
a pint of white wine, properly seasoned with salt and 
pepper and a little chopped parsley. 

After having wiped the shreds of bacon and larded the 
tongue with them,, place this in a saucepan with four 
quarts of cold water, two rashers of bacon, an onion and 
a carrot nicely shred, together .with a bay-leaf, a little 
thyme, three cloves, a teaspoonful of salt, and two pinches 
of pepper. Set the saucepan boiling and simmer for about 
three hours and a half (if the tongue is a large one), then 
ascertain whether it is cooked. When done, take it off 
the fire and dish it up with Gherkin sauce (No. 192) and 
serve. Ox-tongue cooked in this way can also be served 
with Sharp, Italian, or Tomato sauce; you can also omit 
the larding and serve it with a pur^e of spinach, mac^doine, 
or any vegetable that may be in season. 

361. PICKLED OX-TONGUE. MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Get a good pickled ox-tongue from your butcher, wash 
it in two or three cold waters, put it in a saucepan on the 
fire with four quarts of cold water ; let it boil gently for 
about three hours, when it must be drawn from the -fire, 
but leave the tongue in its liquor. Meanwhile put three 
tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce in a small stewpan with 
a piece of glaze as big as a walnut, and half a pint of 
Marsala, Madeira, or sherry, a little salt, pepper, and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 167 

grated nutmeg. Boil it, stir it well with a wooden spoon, 
and reduce it one-third by sharp boiling. Meantime take 
the tongue out of its liquor, trim it and remove the white 
skin, put the tongue back into the saucepan on the fire to 
warm it up. When boiling dish it up, pour the sauce 
over it, and serve with a pur^e of potatoes apart, or any 
other vegetable pur^e. 

If the pickled ox-tongue is to be served cold, cook it in 
the fame way, aiid leave it in its liquor for ten minutes 
before trimming ; and when still hot pin it on a board in 
the larder, so as to give it a round shape, and let it get 
cold, then glaze it in the following manner : — 

362. TO GLAZE COLD MEAT. 

Put some glaze into a small earthenware pot ; put this 
in a saucepan two-thirds full of warm water ; set tlie sauce- 
pan on the fire to bring the water gradually till it boils. 
When the glaze is well dissolved see that the tongue is 
well dried ; then with a brush varnish the surface-, evenly 
and smoothly, and when cold lay on another coat, also a 
third if necessary; but let it be well understood that the 
glazing has not for object the hiding of the article glazed, 
but to give it only a polished and transparent appearance, 
in the same way as a polished piece of furniture, which in 
either case is always pleasing to the eye. 

363. SWEETBREADS LARDED A LA MACEDOINE. 

Soak and blanch two sweetbreads, as described in Hot 
Hors-d'CEuvres, drain and press them between two dishes 
until cold, after which lard them closely with small strips 
of bacon, without having been soaked, as for the ox-tongue. 
Put them in a saut6-pan with a pint of good broth 
slightly coloured with caramel, a " bouquet garni," a bay- 



i68 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

leaf, and salt to taste. Cover the saute-pan with its lid, 
and boil gently for about half an hour, taking care to add 
a little more broth if required ; take the lid off, and put 
the saut^-pan in the oven to dry the siirface, which should 
be of a nice light-brown colour. Then dish them up .with 
a garnish of mac^doine (No. 281) and serve, after having 
poured over the remainder of the glaze in which the 
sweetbreads were cooked. 

Sweetbread prepared in this way may also be served 
with any garnish of vegetables or vegetable pur^e, as 
described in this book, as well as with Tomato or Soubise 
sauce, &c., &c. 

364. OX-BRAINS, NEAPOLITAN STYLE. 

Soak the brains required in lukewarm water in the 
manner described in No. 328, then blanch them for a few 
minutes in salt water, drain, and wipe them with a cloth ; 
when cold, cut these in scollops, pass them in bread-crumbs, 
then into some well-beaten eggs and bread-crumbs again. 
Give each scollop a nice form with your hands ; after which, 
place them in a sawt6-pan, with a few thin rashers of bacon, 
half a carrot, the quarter of an onion shred fine, a bay- 
leaf, salt to taste, half a pint of French white wine, and 
same quantity of broth ; let these simmer for half an hour, 
then strain and dish the scollops on some croiitons fried in 
butter, sprinkle over them a little hot Neapolitan sauce 
(No. 208), and serve. 

365. OX-BRAINS WITH MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Soak and blanch as above two oxTbrains, then cook 
them in good broth, and let them get cold in the broth ; 
after which drain, and put them in a saute-pan with three 
tablespoon fuls of olive-oil, sprinkle over them a little salt 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 169 

and pepper, squeeze the juice of a lemon, add a few sprigs 
of tarragon, and set the saute-pan on the fire to simmer 
for a few minutes, and draw the pan from the fire. Put 
half a pint of Montpellier butter (No 163) into another 
saut6-pan on the fire, put the two brains in it, and glaze 
them well. Dish them up, and pour the Montpellier butter 
over them before sending to the table. 



366. BLACK PUDDINGS. 

Take one pint of pig's blood, add to it half a pint of 
boiled cream, half a pound of the inside fat. of the pig, cut 
in small dice, cut three onions also in dice and fry them 
with two ounces of butter in a frying-pan without colouring 
them ; mix these with the blood, season with half an ounce 
of salt, a pinch of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a sprig 
of thyme, and half a bay -leaf, chopped very fine ; mix all 
these well together and fill the skins (previouslj' cleaned and 
washed) with this mixture, taking care to allow space for 
tying them into five-inch lengths. When completed and 
thus tied, immerse the black puddings in boiling water, with- 
out, however, boiling them, but let them remain in it till 
they become somewhat firm to the touch, when they must 
be taken out and hung in the larder to cool. 

When required, cut them into lengths, score them well 
with a sharp knife, or prick them all round with a trussing- 
needle, so as to prevent them bursting. Broil them on a 
moderate fire for about ten minutes, taking care to turn 
them round as required ; when done, dish them up with 
maiihed potatoes and serve very hot. 

367. PIG'S FEET A LA STE. MENEHOULD. 

Procure four large pig's feet, pickle them for eight days 
in common salt brine, then wash and boil them in a quart 



ryo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of ordinary stock for about three hours and a half, properly 
seasoned with a " bouquet garni," one carrot, two onions, 
and half a head of celery, all shred fine. When dohe, 
drain and cut them in two, lengthways; remove all. the 
large bones, press them into shape with the hands, and 
let them get cold ; after which, sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper, rub them over with a brush or feather dipped in 
clarified butter, then roll them in bread-crumbs and broil 
them over a clear fire (taking care to frequently turn them) 
till of a nice golden colour ; then dish them up, and serve 
with a sharp sauce (No. 205) apart. 



368. PIG'S FEET A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare and cook four pig's feet as in the previous 
number, bone and fill them up with a salpicon k la monglas 
(No. 315); after which, join the two halves, tie them around 
with some pig's caul, prepared for the purpose, give them 
their original form, pass them through bread-crumbs, and 
broil them over a clear fire, taking care, as in No. 367, to 
turn them round j and when nicely done, dish them up in 
halves and serve with Italian sauce (No. 204) apart. 



369. PIG'S EARS A LA VENITIENNE. 
Take four pig's ears, singe them well over a clear flame, 
and clean th^ insides properly with a cloth after having 
scraped them nicely, then blanch in boiling salt water for 
five minutes, drain, and put them in a stewpan with a quart 
of broth and boil them till cooked, then let them get cold 
in the liquor. Cut in halves six small onions, of which the 
two extremities, as well as the hearts in the centre, must 
be removed ; then cut these onions in half -circles and fry 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 1-71 

them in -a stewpan with two ounces of butter without 
browning; add a gill of Espagnole sauce, half a pint of 
veal broth or beef gravy, and simmer for about ten minutes. 
Meantime out the ears in small strips, and when the onions 
are nicely cooked skim off the fat, add the strips of ears 
to it, with a little salt, a dessert-spoonfal of finely chopped 
parsley, a few drops of vinegar, and a little mustard. Toss 
up the lot and mix it well together, and when it is properly 
heated serve. 



370. PIG'S EARS WITH A PUR^E OF LENTILS, 

Prepare and blanch in a similar manner as the foregoing 
four pig's ears ; drain and put them into a stewpan with 
enough broth to cover them ; add one carrot and two 
onions shred fine, as well as a "bouquet garni" and a baj-- 
leaf; boil them; and when cooked take them out, dish 
up with a pur^e of lentils or any other pur^e of vegetable, 
and serve. 



371. PIG'S LIVER, BRAIZED. 

Take a pig's liver, wash and Avipe it well with a cloth, 
then lard it in the same way as the ox-tongue (No. 360). 
Put into a stewpan a few slices of fat bacon, one carrot, 
and two onions shred, and a "bouquet garni;" lay the 
liver at the top of these with enough broth to moisten half 
of the liver ; set the stewpan (with the lid on) to boil, and 
simnier very gently for an hour; taking care meanwhile 
to often baste the liver with its liquor. Remove the lid, 
skim the liquor very carefully, and put the stewpan into 
the oven to give a nice tint to the lard. Meanwhile boil 
a gill of Espagnole sauce ; dish up some purde of potatoes ; 



172 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

put the liver on the pur^e, strain the gravy in which the 
liver was cooked ; skim off all the grease, mix it well with 
the Espagnole sauce, pour it over the liver, and serve. 



372. PIG'S LIVER, POUNDED. 

Clean a pig's liver, cut it in small pieces, and put it in 
a mortar with the half of its weight of fat ; add to it half 
a pound of trimmed and cut mushrooms, one tablespoonful 
of fine herbs (No. 195), a tablespoonful of salt, two pinches 
of pepper, a little griated nutmeg, and the yolks of four 
eggs ; pound these well together in the mortar, then add 
a gill of sherrj', inix it well and rub the lot through a wire 
sieve with a wooden spoon ; butter the inside of a bain- 
marie pan, put the mixture in it and place it in a pan two- 
thirds full of boiling water ; boil thus for about an hour, 
then pour the contents into a hot dish, sprinkle it with some 
essence of mushrooms (No. 171), and serve. 



373. CALF'S LIVER, BRAIZED A LA GENOISE. 

Wash and wipe dry a calf's liver, then lard it through 
with strips of fat bacon and raw ham alternately, let it 
soak in a gill of oil seasoned with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley for about an hour, turning it over at least twice 
during that time. After which, pour the lot into a saut^- 
pan, add one carrot, two onions, one head of celery all shred 
fine, a "bouquet garni," and a bay-leaf; moisten the lot 
with one pint and a half of good broth, cover the pan and 
boil ; then draw the pan away from the fire, and let the 
liver simmer gently for about an hour and a half, frequently 
basting it with its own liquor, then remove the liver into 
a stewpan with a little of its liquor and put it in the oven 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 173 

to glaze properly. Meantime push the saut6-pan on the 
fire and continue reducing the half-glaze by sharp boiling, 
and skim off the fat. Then dress the liver in the centre 
of a dish, make a border of macai'oni cheese (No. 88), 
strain the sauce through a pointed strainer over the liver 
and m.acaroni, and serve. 

Calf's liver cooked as above can also be served with 
any garnish or pur6e of vegetables instead of macaroni. 



374. CALF'S LIVER, CITIZEN STYLE, 

Clean and dry a calf's liver as in No. 373, then lard it 
through with strips of fat bacon, season on both sides 
with salt and pepper, put it in a saut^-pan with a quarter 
of a pound of butter and fry it niciely for about five minutes, 
taking care to give it an even colour all round. Then 
remove the liver from the saute-pan and put it on a dish 
apart. Sprinkle three spoonfuls of flour with the butter 
and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire for £ye minutes. 
Add a pint of water, a pint of French white wine, one onion 
witTi two cloves stuck in it, and a '* bouquet garni," season 
with salt and pepper, stir these with a wooden spoon till 
it boils, then put the liver in with about two dozen new 
carrots, as near of the same size as possible (scraped and 
cleaned), and let it simmer with the stewpan three-parts 
covered for two hours ; then add one dozen button onions 
previously fried in butter, and simmer again for about half 
an hour; dish the liver up, skim the fat from the sauce, 
and garnish the liver with the carrots and onions ; take the 
" bouquet garni " and onion with the cloves out, and if 
there be too much sauce reduce it on a sharp fire for five 
minutes ; then pass it through a pointed strainer over the 
liver and vegetables, and serve. 



174 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

375. CALF'S LIVER A LA VENITIENNE. 

Cut in small slices a calf's liver and put these in a fry- 
ing-pan in which a quarter of a pound of Tsutter has already 
been melted with three spoonfuls of salad-oil, two onions 
shred fine, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, 
fry these on a brisk fire, and stir constantly with a wooden 
spoon, until the liver is cooked and has assumed a nice 
bronzed colour, then squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, 
and serve. 



376. REMARKS ON SAUSAGES AND HOW TO MAKE 
THEM. 

Sausages are generally considered to be mysteries of the 
pork butcher, and this prejudice is not wholly without 
foundation, as the material used for their composition is 
often of a very doubtful character. On that account, and 
that only, I advise the making of sausages at. home. 

Take one pound each of lean and fat pork, both free from 
gristle and rind, chop them in dice and put them into a 
sausage-machine, the turning of which will give you the 
sausage meat ; season with salt, pepper, a little pounded 
thyme and spice. Mix well together, and fill a well- 
cleansed skin with this forcemeat, and separate it into 
sausages of from three or four inches in length, by tj'ing 
them with small string, as for black puddings. When 
these sausages are made they can be cooked either by 
broiling or frying. In either case they must be pricked 
on both sides with a trussing-needle, to prevent their 
bursting. If broiled, a moderate fire is required, and six 
minutes will be found suflScient to cook them properly, 
turning them over after three minutes. If fried; put a 
little butter or fat into a frying-pan, and when hot put the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 175 

sausages in ; the same number of minutes will cook them, 
provided they are also properly turned round. 

Sausages must always be served very hot, on a hot dish, 
and are eaten either plain or with a garnish of purde of 
potatoes, or any other pur^e, as well as with rice boiled 
in broth (with the stewpan closely covered) for twenty 
minutes. 

377. SAUSAGES, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Put eight sausages into a sautd-pan with half a pint of 
French white wine and a good pinch of pepper ; cover the 
sautd-pan and boil for eight minutes; take the sausages 
out and keep them hot in the corner of the stove on a 
dish ; add one gill of Poulette sauce to the saute-pan with 
the wine ; stir and reduce for four minutes ; then add an 
ounce of butter, a little chopped parsley, and stir till the 
butter is melted by the side of the fire, and then pour it 
over the sausages, and serve. 



378. CREPINETTES WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Crepinettes are made with the same forcemeat as the 
. sausages, but in this case no skin is used. Make one 
pound of sausage meat as described, then flatten it on a 
board to the thickness of an inch and four inches wide, 
divide this in eight equal portions, and wrap them in pig's 
caul to a flat oval shape. When ready, broil them on a 
moderate fire for six minutes each side, then serve very 
hot with half a pint of Tomato sauce (No. 217) apart. 

These crepinettes can also be served with rice or mashed 
potatoes. 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

379. FRESH BOILED MEAT. 

Meat that has been boiled for the purpose of making 
broth should not be disregarded on account of its loss of 
savour and uninviting aspect. When the broth is made, 
the different sorts of meat should be taken out of the stock- 
pot, placed on a dish, and sent to the table garnished with 
some of the vegetables that were cooked with it ; or in other 
cases, special vegetables may be simply and carefully pre- 
pared (according to season and taste) as I have indicated 
in the chapter on Garnishes. Meat served thus will be 
found both profitable and useful, and ought to hold its 
own in the domestic cookery of this country, as well as 
it does in that of France and Italy ; but it can also be 
prepared under various palatable and tasty dishes, for 
which see the following. 

380. BEEF MIRONTON. 

Cut three pounds of cold boiled beef into slices of about 
a quarter of an inch thick, trim off the fat and dry parts, 
and place the slices of beef on a dish. Peel, shred fine, 
and fry in two ounces of butter four onions to a nice 
light-brown colour ; then sprinkle three tablespoonf uls of 
flour over them with salt and pepper to taste, and let them 
simmer for five minutes longer; after which, add a pint of 
broth and stir well on the fire for fifteen minutes j then 
add a tea^poonful of mixed mustard, stir, and drop the 

i;6 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 177 

slices of beef into it; toss the saut6-pan nicely,, warm the 
beef without boiling for a few minutes ; season with more 
salt and pepper,'if required ; and then dish it up and serve. 



381. BOILED BEEF WITH SHARP SAUCE. 

Slice the same quantity of beef as in No. 380, lay the 
slices in a gratin-pan, season them with salt and pepper, 
moisten with a gill of good broth, and put them in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes ; after which, pour one pint 
of sharp sauce (No. 205) over the beef, and serve. 

In the same way the beef can be warmed up, and an 
Italian or Tomato sauce poured over it. 

382. BOILED BEEF AU GEATIN. 

Slice the boiled beef as previously directed, and put it in 
a gratin-dish ; place abovit half a pound of fresh mushroom 
cuttings in a stewpan with a pint of broth, season with salt 
and pepper ; boil for five minutes, and then pour this over 
the beef. Cover the top with bread-crumbs, set the dish 
in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

383. BOILED BEEF, COUNTRYMAN'S STYLE. 

Cut two pounds of beef in two-inch dice. Cut in the 
same style a quarter of a pound of streaky 1)acon, remove 
the rind, and fry the bacon only, with one ounce of butter 
in a stewpan, to a brown colour; then add a quart of 
common stock pr water, a " bouquet garni," one onion 
shred,, and a pound of potatoes cut in squares like the beef ; 
boil these for fifteen minutes ; after which, add the pieces 
of beef ; warm them up, without boiling, for ten minutes ; 
then take out the " bouquet," add some salt if necessary, 
dish up and serve. 



178 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

384. MINCED BOILED BEEF. 

Brown for three minutes in a stewpan three tablespoon- 
■fuls of flour with an ounce of butter; take this off the fire, 
add one' pint of broth, salt and pepper to taste, mix for 
two minutes and push the stewpan on the fire, stir for ten 
minutes, then add three pounds of beef, previously trimmed 
and mixed fine, together with a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and stir again for three or four minutes on the 
fire. Should the mixture be too thick, add a little more 
broth, stir, and serve. 

This mince can be made with Italian or Tomato sauce 
instead of broth, and^ in either case the process is the 
same. 

385. BOILED BEEF CROQUETS. 

Chop fine about two pounds of boiled beef. Make a pint 
of Poulette sauce (No. 179), and reduce it on a sharp fire 
to half that quantity. Thicken it With the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten. Mix the chopped beef with this sauce ; 
add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and season with 
salt and pepper ; when well mixed with a wooden spoon, 
spread it out on a dish to a thickness of an inch and a half, 
let it get cold, when it will be firm and divide it into twenty 
equal parts. Strew on a board some bread-crumbs, and put 
the twenty parts of minced meat thereon, each separated 
by about two inches, cover these with a sprinkling of 
bread-crumbs, roll each into the shape of a cork, then beat 
the whites of the three eggs for one minute, without 
frothing, add to this a dessert-spoonful of salt, two of oil, 
and same quantity of water, mix. well together, dip the 
croquets in the mixture, roll them again in bread-crumbs, 
and place them on a dish. Twenty minutes before serving, 
have the frying-kettle ready with hot fat, place the croquets 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 179 

in the frying-basket and put this in the fat to fry ; when 
nearly done move them gently with a slice to ensure their 
even colouring and becoming crisp ; then draw the basket 
out of the frying fat, drain the croquets on a clean cloth, 
sprinkle with salt, dish them up on a napkin, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

386. BOILED BEEF SALAD. 

Cut up the same quantity of cold boiled beef in small 
thin slices, properly trimmed and free from gristle, and put 
these on a dish. 

Prepare in a bowl a similar sauce as for the sheep's feet 
(No. 354), pour it over the beef well mixed, and serve. 
This will be found very appetising in warm weather. 

387. BOILED VEAL MINCED, AND POACHED EGGS. 
Pare off the- outside part of two pounds of boiled veal, 

cut it in shreds and chop very fine. Melt in a stewpan an 
ounce of butter, and brown two tablespoon fuls of flour 
in it, by stirring on the fire with a wooden spoon for 
three minutes ; then gradually mix it with a pint of broth, 
stirring the while, and reduce it on a brisk fire to the 
consistency of sauce ; then add the minced veal, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste ; stir and 
mix this on the fire for three minutes, and dish it up ; 
after which, place eight poached eggs on it, decorate with 
croutons fried in butter, and serve. 

Note. — Any pieces of cooked ham, bacon, or pickled 
tongue, properly minced, as well as mushrooms, can be 
added to the minced veal. 

388. BOILED VEAL, MINCED A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Trim two pounds of boiled veal, and cut it in dice of a 
quarter of an inch thict 5ut half a pint of white wine 



i8o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

into a stewpan with two chopped shalots, a little grated 
nutmeg, salt and pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; set 
these ingredients on to boil, and then pour in the minced 
veal, stir, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Meantime 
prepare a plain macaroni cheese (No. 88), dish it up, put 
the minced veal over it, sprinkle the lot with a little hot 
glaze, and serve. 

Minced veal can also be prepared in croquettes (see 
No. 385), or au gratin, as in No. 382. 



389. BOILED MUTTON. 

Boiled mutton should always be eaten with plain vege- 
tables, and served with Caper or Tomato sauce apart. 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

REMARKS ON FISH. 

The fisheries of Great Britain have assumed such vast 
proportions and importance, that it makes one almost 
wonder how such a quantity of fish (in London some 400 
tons) daily sent to the principal markets of this country 
can be so easily disposed of. 

The flesh of the different species of British fish (there 
are many) is fully recognised by all to be a most delicate 
and nutritious food, as well as brain feeding. 

Nature having thus provided an unbounded supply of 
fish for man's food, to him remains the duty of knowing 
how to use it to the best advantage, and cook, dress, and 
serve it in different ways, in order to relieve and improve 
by such means the monotony of its taste and colour. 

The multiplicity of modes in preparing fish as a food, is 
however, so great and perplexing that I only give a few 
of the most useful and economical recipes for each fish, 
ignoring as much as possible the use of other species and 
crustaceans as a garnish to the numerous forms of cooking 
and dressing, it. 

There are two ways of boiUng fish. The first consists 
in putting the whole of the fish in cold water with plenty 
of salt - and a little vinegar ; the second, in immersing in 
boiling salted water the fish cut in slices. The advantage 
of the former is, that the fish boiled whole loses none of 

its quality j but the cooking of the latter is quicker. How- 

181 



i82 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ever, as it is not always convenient to cook a whole 
fish, especially when it is a large one, and when the 
question of time is also to be considered, I think it is only 
right that the advantage derived from one should be 
equalised by the consideration of the other. In either 
case, as soon as the fish is cooked it must be taken out 
of the water and drained, otherwise it will lose some of 
its flavour and firmness. Should you have to keep, the 
fish hot for a few minutes before serving, cover it with 
two or three folds of clean cloth or flannel on the strainer 
across the kettle, but do not on any account let it soak in 
hot water. 

Remaeks on Salmon. 

Salmon is certainly and without prejudice the king of 
fish ; he is highly intellectual and possesses a strongly 
developed instinct ; in fact, is an aristocrat and a gentle- 
man. His shape, build, and movements are most graceful 
and elegant, and is considered the finest specimen of the 
species, and can jump over obstacles and difiiculties like a 
hunter on terra firma. He strongly objects to unclean or 
polluted rivers, and, like a hound following the fox by scent, 
he can detect impure water (which means danger for him) 
for a long distance down the river. He is more of a sea 
than a fresh-water fish, and must be as free as the red- 
deer or the eagle, and will not thrive in captivity. The 
season is from March to August. 

390. BOILED SALMON, LOBSTER SAUCE. 

The middle cut of a salmon is the most delicate part of 
the fish, but it is rather oily, and consequently more in- 
digestible than the rest. Of the two halves, the one with 
the head is to be preferred. 

Take a slice of about three poiinds of salmon, in pre- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 183 

feionce the cut near the head, put this on the drainer in 
a Btnall fish-kettle with three quarts of boiling water and 
a handful of salt ; boil it, and then simmer for about 
twenty minutes or till the fish is done, which can easily 
be ascertained by it separating from the bones. Then at 
once take the drainer out of the water, place the piece of 
salmon carefully on a folded napkin on the dish, decorate 
with a few sprigs of green parsley, and serve with Lobster 
sauce (No. 2 1 2) in a sauce-boat apart. 

Salmon boiled in this way can also be served with, 
shrimp, melted butter, or Hollandaise sauce. 

391. SALMON A LA VENITIENNE. 
Boil as in the foregoing two or three pounds of salmon 
cut in slices of one inch thick for twelve minutes; then 
strain, remove the sfein, and put the slices of salmon in 
a saut6-pan with a pint of fish gravy (No. 20) and a 
spoonful of lobster butter (No. 169); let them simmer 
with the saut^-pan covered for ten minutes ; after which, 
take each slice out with a flat skimmer without breaking, 
dish them up, by overlaying each other in a circle, pour 
a Venitian sauce (No. 206) over them, and serve. 

392. SALMON A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare a liquor called " Court Bouillon " in the follow- 
ing manner : — 

Put a gill of salad-oil or three ounces of butter in a 
stewpan, with two onions and one carrot sliced, add a few 
trimmings of bacon or ham, a -dozen pepper-corns, four 
cloves, a " bouquet garni," and a handful of salt j fry these 
ingredients over, the fire for eight minutes, stirring the 
while ; then pour in a bottle of white dry wine and two 
quarts of water or fish broth ; let it simmer for half an 
hour, skim, and strain through a sieve into a small fish- 



1 84 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

kettle ; then put in three pounds of salmon, cut in slices 
as in No. 391, boil these gently for twenty-five minutes, 
strain in the Usual way, and dish them up with Genoise 
sauce (No. 207) poured over, and serve. 

Note. — This " Court Bouillon " will keep a long time if 
'boiled every four days, adding half a pint of water or fish 
broth and a similar quantity of wine each time. This 
liquor is generally used for boiling fresh-water fish, 

393. BROILED SALMON. TARTARE SAUCE. 

Steep two pounds of salmon, cut in slices of about one 
inch thick, in a dish with half a gill of salad-oil ; salt and 
pepper. Broil these on a good and clear fire for twelve 
minutes each side, then dish up and serve with Tartare 
sauce (No. 221) apart. 

394. SALMON CUTLETS A L'INDIENNE. 

- Slice a piece of salmon as previously desciibed, cut these 
in halves, lengthwise, then rub them slightly over with oil, 
sprinkle each slice with salt and pepper, broil them over 
a clear fire for twelve minutes each side ; after which, dish 
them up in a circle on a napkin on a dish, and serve with 
Indian curry sauce (No. 185) apart. 

395. SALMON CROQUETS. 

Pieces of cooked salmon should be used for croquets. 
Proceed to make a salpicon of salmon in the same way as 
the salpicon of lobster (see No. 314), then turn this into 
croquets (No. 326), fry in the same way, and serve. 

396. SALMON WITH MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Trim, wash, and shred two lettuces; season with oil, 
vinegar, salt, and pepper ; lay these at the bottom of a dish. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 185 

Cut in small fillets the boiled salmon left from the previous 
day's dinner ; pile these over the lettuces in the centre of 
the dish. Cover the lot with Mayonnaise sauce (No. 219), 
decorate the border of the dish with two hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters and two cleansed and boned anchovies, each 
cut in fillets of four, twisted round the finger and placed 
alternately with the eggs, and serve. 

397. PICKLED SALMON. 

Clean, wash, and wipe a whole salmon weighing about 
twelve pounds, tie the head with a string and simmer very 
gently in the fish-kettle on the drainer for fifty minutes 
in plenty of salt water and a glass of vinegar, or better still 
with " Court Bouillon" (No. 392). After which, if the fish 
is cooked in a " Court Bouillon," remove the fish-kettle to 
a cool place, leaving the salmon in it untU it is cold. If 
boiled in water, drain the fish when cooked, and slide it 
very carefully from the strainer into a deep oval dish ; and 
then in either case pour over it a well-beaten mixture 
composed of a bottle of vinegar, half a pint of oil properly 
seasoned with salt, a tablespoonful of pepper-corns, six 
cloves, two bay -leaves, and the peel of two lemons. Let the 
fish steep in this liquor for at least four hours, taking care 
to baste it often with the liquor during that time; then 
dish up on a large oval dish with part of its liquor strained 
over it ; remove the string from around the head, decorate 
the fish and the dish with a border of peeled cucumber- 
slices partly immersed in the liquor, a few thin slices of 
lemon cut in fancy shapes and placed about on the dish, 
and, last but not least, a few sprigs of fennel nicely arranged 
about the head, tail, and centre of the fish, and then send 
to the table. 



i86 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



Remarks on Turbot. 

Turbot is a very thick flat-fish, and (halibut excepted) is 
the largest of that class. 

The greater portion of turbots supplied to the vari?iu8 
English markets is caught on or near the numerous sand- 
banks between England and Holland, but the finest comes 
from the Flemish coasts. 

The flesh of the "turbot is almost as white as snow, firm, 
delicate, savoury, 'and very nourishing, and may without 
prejudice, on account of its superior taste and flavour, com- 
bined with its plump and fleshy shape, be compared to the 
Surrey chicken, and called the sea-capon. 

398. BOILED TURBOT. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE, 

Choose a thick and plump turbot ; see that the fins or 
backbone are free from colour; if it has any reddish 
appearance about it the turbot (although it may be quite 
fresh) will boil a bad colour. Clean the inside thoroughly 
and rub with a handful of salt ; trim the fins close ; 
wash, and wipe dry ; rub over with the juice of a lemon, 
score it with a pointed knife a quarter of an inch deep 
across the back two or three times ; put two handfuls of 
salt over it and place in a turbot-kettle on the drainer 
with suflScient boiling water to cover the fish. Boil, and 
as soon as the water begins to simmer, skim it well j then 
let it simmer for about half an hour, more or less, according 
to the size of the fish. When the fish is done lift it out 
of the water with the drainer, put this across the kettle 
for a few minutes to dry, and then slip it very carefully 
on to a dish and serve with Hollandaise sauce (No, 184) 
apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 187 

399. FILLETS OF TURBOT A L'INDIENNE. 

After having cleaned and trimmed a small turbot, or 
pai-t of one, as in No. 398, cut it in scollops, place them in a 
saut^-pan with three ounces of butter, a gill of fish broth 
or boiling water, and two tablespoonfuls of curry paste or 
powder nicely sprinkled and mixed with the broth ; let this 
simmer, with the lid on the saut^-pan, for twenty minutes; 
after which, add to it a gill of Veloute sauce (No. 153). 
Let the whole boil together for three minutes longer, then 
dish up the fillets, by laying one over the other in a circle, 
pass the sauce through a tainmy sieve, make it hot again, 
mix with it an ounce of butter, stir to melt the butter well, 
then pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 

400. FILLETS OF TURBOT A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare the fillets of turbot as in No. 399, boil them 
with the same quantity of- butter and fish broth for twenty 
minutes with the pan covered ; then add half a pint of 
Italian sauce ; let the contents simmer for four or five 
minutes longer ; dish up the fillets in the same manner as 
the Indienne, and pass the sauce through a tammy into 
the pan to be made hot again ; add an ounce of anchovy 
butter, together with a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers. 
Mix these well together, pour over the fillets, and serve. 

401. TURBOT CREAM AU GRATIN. 
Take the remnants of a cooked turbot ; bone, and trim 
properly ; cut or separate this in small flakes or fillets and 
put them into a stewpan with enough Bechamel sauce 
(No. 15s) to moisten the bottom of the pan; season this 
with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; 
set the stewpan on the fire to warm the contents; after 
which, pile them up nicely on a gratia-dish, shake some 



i88 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

grated cheese on the surface, pour a gill of cream over 
this, and set the dish in a moderately heated oven for eight 
or ten minutes in order to gratinate the top ; then form a 
border around the fish, on the edge of the dish, with a 
puree of potatoes, hold a red-hot salamander over the 
whole surface to give it a light-brown colour, and serve. 

402. TURBOT CROQUETS, &e. 

Turbot can also be served in croquets, coquilles, mayon- 
naise, &c. &c. (see each heading). 

403. BRILL. 

This fish, bearing in shape and taste a great resemblance 
to turbot, is prepared in the same way and served with the 
same sauces, but requires scraping before cooking, in order 
to free it from scales. 

404. JOHN DORY. 

This fish, although a favourite with a great many, is but 
seldom sent to the table, otherwise than as a plain boiled 
fish, with either Lobster, Shrimp, Hollandaise, or Italienne 
sauce. 



Kemaeks on Cod- Fish. 

The common cod is a fish almost universally known in 
cold and temperate climates. It is found in almost every 
sea but the Mediterranean, and as a proof of the com- 
mercial importance and value of cod, the right of its 
fisheries has even been, from time to time, the cause of 
ill-feeling between the fishermen of friendly nations. 

Cod-liver-oil is a great source of income to the fishermen 
of the Noi'th, as well as a boon and relief to weak and 
consumptive persons. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 189 

405. COD WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Crimp a piece of cod ; place it on the drainer in a fish- 
kettle with a handful of salt; pour over it sufiicient boiling 
water to cover it entirely. Boil it, and let it simmer for 
a quarter of an hour, then drain and place it on a napkin 
on a dish, and serve with Oyster savice (No. 186) in a sauce- 
boat apart. 

Cod boiled as above can also be served with Egg, Hoi' 
landaise, Melted Butter, or Tomato sauce. 

406. COD STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Clean, trim, and stuff the inside of a cod with some well- 
seasoned veal stuflBng, which secure by sewing up ; make 
several deep incisions on either side of the fish, and place 
it in a deep baking-dish, previously spread with plenty of 
butter ; season with salt, pepper, two shalots, a few mush- 
rooms and some parsley chopped fine ; moisten with half a 
bottle of white wine and a gill of broth. Set the fish in the 
oven to bake, and every ten minutes, or oftener, baste with 
its liquor. When the fish is nearly done sprinkle it over 
with some fine raspings, and put again in the oven for 
ten minutes. When the cod is baked draw the string out 
without tearing the flesh of the fish ; put this on a hot 
dish with a little broth to detach the glaze from the jDottom 
of and around the pan, pass the lot through a tammy sieve 
into a small stewpan, add a little brown sauce ; reduce the 
whole to a proper consistency ;.'add half an ounce of anchovy 
butter, a little cayenne, and the juice of a lemon ; stir this 
well together on the fire, pour it over and round the cod in 
the dish, and serve, 

407. COD A L'INDIENNE. 
Trim some pieces "of cod in the shape of thick fillets, 
place these in a saut6-pan well buttered ; moisten with 



igo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

some Indian curry sauce (No. 185) prepared for the pur- 
pose ; cover the saut^-pan with its lid and set on a sharp 
fire to boil for about twenty minutes; then dish up the 
fillets in the form of a circle, overlaying each other, pass 
the sauce through a tammy, pour it over the fish, and 
serve, 

408. COD A LA GENOISE. 
Prepare some slices of cod as in the previous number, 
put these in a nicely oiled saut6-pan and moisten with 
a pint of Genoise sauce (No. 207) ; cover the pan and 
simmer on a brisk fire for twenty minutes; after which, 
dish up the fish as described in the foregoing, pour the 
sauce over, and serve. 

409. COD A LA CrIIME, AU GRATIN. 

Prepare the pieces of cod left from the previous day's 
dinner, in a manner similar to the turbot au gratin (No. 
401). 

410. COD IN COQUILLES. 

Cod can also be served in coquilles, croquets, and 
mayonnaise (for which see Nos. 324, 326, and 396 respec- 
tively). 

411. SALT COD. EGG SAUCE. 

Salt cod should be soaked in running water, for at least 
twelve hours previous to being cooked. If this cannot be 
obtained, cover the piece of salt fish intended for cooking 
with warm water, and let it soak for six hours ; after 
which, soak it for another six hours in cold water, taking 
care to change the water at least three times ; then put 
it in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, boil for six 
or seven minutes ; drain well ; dish up, and garnish with 
plain boiled potatoes, and send to the table with some 
Egg sauce (No; 182) in a sauce-boat apart. 

Note. — Salt cod steeped and boiled, as in the preceding 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 191 

number, can also be served with melted butter, maltre 
d'hotel, or black butter. 



Remarks on Sturgeon. 

The sturgeon is generally found at the mouths of large 
rivers in the different seas of Europe, and lised to be very 
highly appreciated by our ancestors; in fact, by an Act 
passed in the reign of Edward II. (which, I am informed, 
has never been repealed) that iish was called " Royal,',' 
and only allowed to be served on the table of that monarch, 
and forbidden to appear on any other. 

Amongst the Romans, at their feasts, the sturgeon was 
decorated with garlands and wreaths, and used to be carried 
to the tables of Consuls and Emperors by the chiefs and 
nobles of their Court, to the sound of music. 

The flesh of the sturgeon differs much in colour and 
taste, but a good cook can almost turn it at will into fish, 
meat, or poultry. 

Caviare, composed of the roe of sturgeon, is very mucli 
relished, especially by the Russians, as a hors-d'oeuvre, or 
side dish, and by them it is preserved, and exported, on a 
large scale to all parts of Europe. 

412. STURGEON A LA VENITIENNE. 
Take the half of a small sturgeon, the head-part in 
• preference, and boil it in "Court Bouillon" (No. 392) for 
about two hours, with the fish-kettle covered ; then drain 
and skim -it, put the fish in a deep-baking dish with a 
pint of Genoise sauce (No. 207), let it simmer for ten 
minutes, taking care to often baste the fish with the sauce 
during that time ; after which, dish it up, add to the 
sauce about a dozen small onions and a handful of mush- 
rooms previously blanched and glazed in broth, together 



192 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. ' 

with an ounce of anchovy butter ; mix this well on the fire, 
pour it over the fish, and serve. 

413. STURGEON A L'ANGLAISE. 
Procure a prime cut of sturgeon ; remove the skin with 
a thin-bladed knife, by inserting the point between the flesh 
and skin close to the back fin, and drawing it to and 
fro so as to sever the skin from the flesh on both sides. 
When this is completed replace the skin over the sturgeon, 
and fasten on with a string, in order to preserve the 
colour of the fish. Put the fish on the drainer in the fish- 
kettle, with sufficient " Court Bouillon " to cover it well. 
Cover the fish-kettle and let it boil gently for two hours 
and a half ; after which, draw the fish away from the 
fire, take it out and place on a dish in a hot closet, 
well covered with a folded clean cloth. Meantime take a 
pint of "Court Bouillon" out of the kettle in which the 
fish has just^been cooked ; strain into a small stewpan ; 
add half a pint of port wine, and reduce the whole to 
a half-glaze ; after which, mix with it a gill of Espagnole 
or any other brown sauce, a dozen button mushrooms, an 
ounce of anchovy butter, a little cayenne and grated nut-, 
meg, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the lot well on the 
fire, and let it boil three minutes ; then bring the fish out, 
remove the cloth, string, and skin, pour the sauce over the 
sturgeon, and serve. 

414. STURGEON, LARDED AND ROASTED. 

Remove the skin of a piece of sturgeon in the same 
manner as in No. 413, sprinkle the fish with salt and 
pepper, and if time will allow, lard with small strips of 
bacon on each side, or simply tie some thin slices of bacon 
on it; then butter a sheet of stiff kitchen paper large 
enough to enclose the sturgeon, put some sliced onions and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 193 

carrots on the paper, as well as a few sprigs each of thyme 
and parsley, two bay -leaves and a laurel-leaf, place the fish 
on these and wrap it well in the paper, tie two more sheets 
of buttered paper around it, fix it on the spit to be roasted 
before an even fire, or in a baking-sheet ,to be baked in 
the oven, which will, in either case, take about one hour 
and a half or two hours, according to the size of the fish. 

When the sturgeon is cooked, untie the strings and 
remove the paper, dish up and glaze it, then serve with 
Oyster, Lobster, or Indian sauce apart. 

415. STURGEON AU GRATIN. 

This method of dressing sturgeon should ouly be resorted 
to (as in the foregoing gratins) when it happens that a 
suflBcient remnant is left from the previous day's meal. 

Cut the sturgeon into small scollops ; put into a sautd- 
pan enough AUemande sauce to moisten the quantity of 
iish left ; add some fine herbs, lemon-juice, a little grated 
nutmeg, and half an ounce of anchovy butter; mix these 
ingredients well together on the fire ; add the scollops 
of sturgeon, and when nicely hot, dish them up in a 
gratin dish, pour the sauce over, cover the whole with 
bread-crumbs and a handful of grated cheese, place the 
dish in the oven to gratinate, and when nicely browned, 
serve. 

Sturgeon, in addition to the preceding modes of prepa- 
ration, can also be dressed similarly to salmon, in all its 
varieties. 

416. SKATE WITH BLACK BUTTER. 

There are many varieties of skate, but amongst these the 
blue or grey skate are considered the best for the table, and 
when properly dressed are not unworthy of the epicure's 
notice. This fish is generally bought ready dressed and 



194 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cleaned, but in case this should not be done, the following 
is the proper method of doing it :— 

Skin the skate on both sides, cut off the tail, wash the 
fish thoroughly and lay it flat on the table ; take a sharp 
knife and with it separate the fleshy parts from the back- 
bone on both sides ; after which, cut these pieces into long 
strips by cutting through the cartilaginous or finny parts ; 
place these strips in a pan with plenty of fresh water in 
order to crimp them. In like manner separate the other 
side of the fish and place the pieces also in the cold water ; 
keep the liver apart, and change the water in which the 
fish is placed very often and until the crimping be effected. 

Put these pieces into a saucepan with suflicient water to 
cover the fish ; add a glass of vinegar, a handful of salt, 
and a faggot of parsley. Set the saucepan to boil and 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, draw the pan away from 
the fire, drain the fish, and keep it hot. Meantime put. the 
liver of the skate into a small stewpan, with enough of 
the liquor in which the skate was cooked to moisten it ; 
then boil for five minutes and drain ; dish up the fish and 
■liver, pour half a pint of black butter (No. 164) over it, 
garnish with a handful of fried parsley, and serve. 

417. SKATE A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare and cook the crimped pieces of skate in the 
same way as in the previous number ; dish these up, and 
pour over some Genoise sauce (No. 207), and serve. 

418. SKATE, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Boil in plenty of salt water with two glasses of vinegar, 
for about a quarter of an hour, the whole of a skate. 
When cooked strain, and peel, off the skin from both 
sides, put the skate on a dish, cover it with Hollandaise 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 195 

sauce (No. 184), in which you have previously miied a 
tablespoonful of capers, and serve. 



Eemarks on Mackbuel. 
It has been proved beyond a doubt that the gills of 
mackerel undergo fermentation and become poisonous forty- 
eight hours after the fish has been caught; therefore 
no part of the head should be eaten, and I strongly advise 
the cutting-off both head and gills of every mackerel (how- 
ever fresh they may be) before cooking. 

419. BOILED MACKEREL. 

Remove the gills as aforesaid, and cleanse the inside of 
one or more good-sized mackerel, cut off the end of the 
tail and fins, boil the fish in salt water with a little vinegar, 
dish up, and serve with Fennel (194) or Parsley sauce, in 
a sauce-boat apart. 

420. BROILED MACKEREL A LA MAItRE D'HdTEL. 

Prepare the mackerel as in the foregoing, split the fish 
down the back lengthwise, "to the bone. Put these halves 
on a dish in which you have already placed two table- 
spoonfuls of olive-oil properly seasoned, with salt and 
pepper ; soak the fish well with this ; then place the halves 
on a gridiron, over a brisk fire, for six minutes each 
side ; dish them up, put some cold mattre d'h6tel butter 
(No. 226) over each half, and serve on a very hot dish. 

421. MACKEREL A LA GENOISE. 

Cut off the heads of three mackerel ; clean and wash 
the fish properly, place them in a fish-kettle with a pint 
of white wine, a few sprigs of chopped parsley, three 
boned and chopped anchovies, a clove of garlic and half 



196 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

an onion slired fine; add to it a little oil, salt and pepper 
to taste, and set to simmer for about half an hour; 
after which, take the fish out, add to the liquor a gill of 
Espagnole sauce and the juice of a lemon ; stir the lot 
well together on the fire, dish up the fish, strain, and pour 
the sauce over it, and serve. 

422. FILLETS OF MACKEREL A LA VENITIENNE. 

Fillet three mackerel as follows : — Place the fish on the 
slab with its back toward you, then run the knife in, just 
below -the gills, turn the edge of the blade under, press 
with the fingers of the left hand full on the upper end 
of the fish, and bearing with the blade of the knife upon 
the side of the backbone, draw the knife gently down to 
the tail, then turn the mackerel over and take the fillet 
ofl the other side. When this is done cut each fillet in 
two, trim the ends nicely, and put them in a buttered 
saut6-pan; season with salt and pepper, and add two 
ounces of clarified butter ; cover the fillets with a round 
of buttered paper ; set the pan over a moderate fire to 
simmer for about a quarter of an hour ; after which, dress 
the fillets up in a dish in a circle, pour over some Venitian 
sauce (No. 206), and serve. 

423. STEWED FILLETED MACKEREL, 

Fillet three mackerel as in the foi'egoing, and take the 
skin off ; put these in a frying or baking pan with three 
ounces of melted butter, salt and pepper-corns to taste, a 
little chopped parsley and an onion shred fine. ' Set these 
on a moderate fire to stew nicely, taking care to turn the 
fillets without breaking them. When cooked, dish these 
up in "a circle, pour in the pan half a pint of Tomato or 
Italian sauce ; stir the contents well on the fire till nicely 
hot, then pour the sauce over the fish and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 197 

Eemarks on Sole. 

To the public in general soles are the most important 
of sea-fish, as they are required by all classes of society, 
the upper class getting the largest and best quality, the 
poorer the smaller and inferior fish. 

The supply of soles to the London market is very 
fluctuating on account of their migratory habits ; retiring 
to great depths in the ocean, during the winter and in 
stormy weather. 

The flesh of the sole is white, and possesses a delicacy 
and flavour superior to that of all other fish. It is gene- 
rally recommended to invalids and convalescents as a 
most nourishing and digestive food. 

424. BOILED SOLES. 

Remove the gills, cut off the heads transversely, cleanse 
the insides, strip or gull off the brown skins, scrape the 
other sides, then with a pair of large scissors trim away 
the fins close up to the fillets of two large soles. After 
which, wash and wipe them thoroughly, then immerse 
in boiling salt water, and let them boil for twelve or 
fifteen minutes, according to their size. When the soles 
.are cooked dish up and serve with Butter sauce (No. 157) 
in a boat apart. 

425. FRIED SOLES. 

Trim and clean four soles of moderate size, as in the 
foregoing. Flour these well on both sides, then pass them 
through breadings (No. 269) and bread-raspings (No. 268). 
After which, dip them in warm frying fat, and gradually 
increase the heat till the soles are of a nice pale-brown 
colour, when they must be taken out. Drain them on a 
cloth, sprinkle each with salt, dish up on a napkin, garnish 



198 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

with a few sprigs of fried parsley and a lemon cut in 
quarters, and iserve with or without some Shrimp, Lohster, 
Melted Butter, or HoUandaise sauce. 

Note. — Moderate-sized soles only should be used for frying, 
as when large they must necessarily take a considerable 
time in the frying, on account of their thickness, and 
imbibe a greater portion of the fat, and therefore contract 
a strong flavour. They are also less likely to appear crisp, 
although this is so essential a requisite in all fried fish. 

426. SOLES A LA COLBERT. 

Clean and trim two large soles as described in No. 425 ; 
make an incision on each side of the bone down the whole 
fish, break the bone in pieces with the handle of the knife, 
so as to facilitate removing it when cooked, pass these 
through breadings and bread-raspings (Nos. z68 and 269), 
and fry them in hot fat for about ten or twelve minutes. 
When the soles are properly cooked, drain on a cloth, 
put them on a dish, remove the pieces of bone, fill the 
inside with some cold maitre d'h6tel (No. 226), garnish with 
a little fried parsley, put the dish for two minutes in the 
oven, and serve with a lemon cut in four. 

427. SOLES WITH FINE HERBS. 

Clean and trim two large soles as in the foregoing ; put 
them on a buttered saut4-pan, sprinkle over them some 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one shalot ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; moisten with two glasses 
of white wine ; cover the soles with a buttered paper and 
set them in the oven to cook. When done, drain the liquor 
into a small stewpan containing half a pint of AUemande 
sauce; add to it a spoonful of blanched and chopped 
parsley, a pat of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 199 

stir the whole well together on the fire ; dish up the soles, 
pour the sauce over, and serve. 

428. SOLES AU GRATIN. 

After having cleaned and trimmed, in the usual way, 
two large soles, spread them in a well-buttered gratin-dish 
or gratin-pan ; season with salt and pepper, moisten with 
half a pint of white wine, and sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped parsley ; put these in the oven to bake for about 
twenty minutes ; after which, pour over them half a pint 
of Italian sauce (No. 204.). Strew the top thickly with 
bread-raspings, push the dish back in the oven for a few 
minutes to gratinate, and just before serving pass the red- 
hot salamander over them. 

429. SOLES A LA PROVENQALE. 

Take two large soles, trim and clean as in the fore- 
going, place them in a sautfi-pan properly seasoned with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley; add to these 
a gill of white wine and the same quantity of salad-oil; 
cover the fish with a well-oiled sheet of paper, and set 
the pan in the oven to bake. Meanwhile shred four large 
onions and fry them in a gill of good oil to a nice brown 
colour. When the soles are done dish up, drain the 
onions and mix them with the liquor of the fish, pour it 
over the soles, and serve after having squeezed the juice of 
half a lemon over them. 

430. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA LIVOURNAISE. 

Trim and clean two soles in the usual way ; place them 
in a saut^-pan with a gill each of white wine, good vinegar, 
and broth. Season properly with salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
chopped parsley, mace, and majoram. Cook on a good fire 
for ten minutes, and let them get cold ; after which, fillet 



200 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with a pointed knife and put back in the saut6-pan 
with the bones. Lay on each fillet, with a knife, a 
tablespoonful of raw fish forcemeat (No. 275); add a little 
anchovy butter, the juice of half a lemon, a few slices of 
cooked mushrooms and truifles on each fillet. Cover these, 
with a buttered sheet of paper, boil, and place the saut6- 
pan in a very hot oven for a -quarter of an hour. Mean- 
while prepare as many slices of buttered toast, cut of the 
same shape as the fillets of sole.s, and dish up the fillets on 
them, and pour the sauce over the lot before serving. 

431. SOLES WITH FRIED PARSLEY. 

After having cleaned and trimmed two soles, throw 
them into two quarts of boiling salt water. Meanwhile 
boil the frying fat, and when the soles are nearly cooked 
strain and dry them well, then dip them in the frying fat 
with some parsley, and serve with a lemon cut in four, 
garnished with the fried parsley. 

This simple mode of cooking suits any kind of salt-water 
fish, and can be recommended. 

432. FILLETED SOLES. VENITIAN SAUCE. 
Prepare eight fillets of sole and place them in a buttered 
saut^-pan ; season with salt, pepper, and a little mace, 
moisten with a pint of broth, cover with a buttered paper, 
cook on a quick fire, dish them in a circle, pour over some 
Venitian sauce (No. 206), and serve. 

483. SOLES A LA NORMANDE. 
Trim and strip off the black skin of two soles, make a 
good incision along each side of the bone on the skinned 
part of each sole, and clean well ; then butter a saut6-pan 
large enough to hold the two soles, strew it with some 
very finely chopped onions, previously blanched, lay the soles 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 20i 

on these, season with salt and pepper, moisten with half a 
pint of white wine, and cook them in the oven. Mean- 
while have half a pint of fish broth (No. 25) ready made, 
which must be bailed with a gill of white wine. Blanch 
separately twelve oysters, twelve mussels, and twelve 
mushroom buttons ; fry also twelve smelts and some 
crodtons ready for garnish. When the soles are cooked 
put them on a silver dish and keep hot ; add the liquor 
of the soles, as well as that in which the mussels were 
cooked, to the fish broth, and strain it through a fine 
cloth into a saucepan. Melt two ounces of butter in 
another saucepan, add to it two ounces of flour, stir this 
well over the fire with a wooden spoon, moisten with the 
liquor, and reduce it by boiling for fifteen minutes; then 
strain through a tammy cloth and thicken it with the yolks 
of twt) eggs. Place the oysters, mussels, and mushrooms 
decoratively on the soles and round them, pour the sauce 
over, and put the dish in the oven for five minutes, taking 
care not to colour the sauce ; after which, garnish the 
border of the dish, with the fried smelts and crofltons, then 
serve. 

Crayfish or prawns as well as ti'uffles can also be added 
with advantage to the above garnish. 

434. SOLE WITH WHITE WINE SAUCE. 
Prepare two soles as in No. 433, put them in a buttered 
saut6-pan, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a 
pint of dry white wine, and set them into the oven to bake 
for twenty -five minutes. Meantime melt and mix in a 
stewpan two ounces of very fresh butter with the same 
quantity of flour, by stirring it over the fire with a wooden 
spoon for two or three minutes; season the same with 
salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; moisten with 
half a pint of white broth, stirring the while. When the 



202 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

soles are cooked pour their liquor into the stewpan, stir, 
and boil gently for one minute; add an ounce of fresh 
butter J stir the sauce off the fire till the butter is well 
melted ; dish up the soles, pour the sauce over, and serve. 



Eemahks on Mullet, Red and Grey, 

There are two distinct species of red jnuUet, one plain 
red, and the other striped red. There is also another 
species called grey mullet, but these are very common, 
and do not possess the same delicacy and flavour as the 
former. 

Eed mullet should never be drawn j the gills only should 
be taken out, as it is considered that the liver and trail 
are the best part of this fish. 

435. RED MULLET, MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Remove the gills of six red mullet; cut off the fins, 
scrape, and dip them quickly in water ; wipe, and if large, 
score them gently across two or three times ; then lay them 
on a dish and pour over each a tablespoonful of salad-oil ; 
strew an onion cut in small slices, a few sprigs of parsley, 
salt and pepper, say three pinches of each, and let them 
steep so for at least half an hour ; then take them out of 
the dish, one by one, shaking and freeing them from the 
oil, onions, and parsley, put them on a gridiron over a clear 
fire for five or six minutes each side, when they must be 
dressed on a hot dish, taking care not to break them, and 
serve with a quarter of a pound of mattre d'h&tel butter 
(No. 226) under and over. 

436. RED MULLET, ITALIENNE. 
Trim the mullet as in the foregoing, and lay them 
in a buttered saut^-pan ; season with salt and pepper; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 203 

moisten with half a pint of white wine and a little essence 
of mushrooms ; bake in a not too hot oven, taking care to 
baste often. When cooked dish up, have some Italian 
sauce (No. 204) ready, to which add the liquor in which 
the mullet have been cooked, after having previously re- 
duced it a little by a sharp boiling ; add a little essence of 
anchovy (No. 174) and the juice of half a lemon ; stir the 
contents well, then pour it over the fish, and serve. 

437. RED MULLET A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare the red mullet in a saut6-pan as in the fore- 
going; moisten with half a pint of red wine and some 
essence of mushrooms ; bake," baste, and dish up in the 
same way ; then reduce the liquor in which the fish were 
cooked, and mix it with some Genoise sauce (No. 207), 
a little anchovy butter (No. 161), the juice of half a lemon, 
and pour it over the fish before serving. 

438. RED MULLET IN CASES. 

Spread the mullet in a well-buttered sautd-pan as before, 
season with salt and pepper, moisten with three glasses of 
sherry and a little essence of fish (No. 175). Bake in 
the oven, not forgetting the basting. When properly 
done put them separately in oblong paper cases, made for 
the purpose and saturated with olive-oil, put these on a 
dish and keep hot at the door of the oven. Meanwhile 
add another glass of sherry to the liquor remaining in the 
saut^-pan, stir it in order to detach any glaze that may 
have formed on the sides, add a little essence of anchovy 
(No. 161), the juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of 
blanched and chopped parsley ; stir these well together ; 
sauce the mullets in their cases with it, spread a little finely 
bruised lobster coral over each, and serve. 



204 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

439. GREY MULLET, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Remove the gills, cut the fins, cleanse the Inside, scale, 
wash, and wipe three grey mullet j boil for about twenty 
minutes in salted water, strain, and serve with half a pint 
of Hollandaise sauce (No. 184) apart. 

Grey mullet can also be prepared in the same way as red 
mullet, viz., Maltre d'H6tel, k I'ltalienne, Genoise, and 
Tomato sauce. 



Remarks on Whitino. 

This fish may be considered to be thoroughly English, as 
it is caught in great abundance almost all round the coast, 
but it should be eaten as soon as possible after being caught, 
as it is quickly spoilt by packing and travelling. 

440. FRIED WHITING. 

Whiting before being fried should be skinned, and the 
following is the proper way of doing it ; — With a cloth in 
your left hand, take a firm hold of the whiting at the back 
part of the head just below the gills, then with a pointed 
knife in your right hand loosen the skin on each side of. 
the fish (just over the upper dorsal fin) by inserting the 
point and pulling the skin o£E sharp, one side after the 
other. When the fish is skinned and trimmed, turn the 
tail round into its mouth and hook it to its teeth ; then dip 
each fish into some beaten eggs, cover it with fine bread- 
crumbs and fry them in the frying fat, heated beforehand 
for that purpose, sprinkle with salt before dishing them on 
a dish, paper, or napkin, with fried parsley, and serve with 
a lemon cut in four, or either of the following sauces. 
Anchovy, Plain Butter, Shrimp, or Hollandaise. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 205 

441. WHITING BOILED. 

Trim only the number of whiting required, boil in some 
salt water for about seven minutes; after which, dish 
them up on a napkin on a dish and serve with either a 
Tomato, Shrimp, Anchovy, Plain Butter, or Hollandaise 
sauce. 

442. BROILED WHITING. 

Trim the whiting and slightly score them on both sides, 
rub some oil over each and broil on a gridiron which has 
been previously rubbed with chalk. When done on both 
sides dish up on a napkin and serve with maitre d'hotel 
butter (No. 226) or ravigote (No. 162). 

443. FILLETS OF WHITING, ITALIAN. 

Fillet four whiting, after having removed the skin as 
described in No. 438. Cut each fillet in two and place 
them side by side in a buttered saute-pan ; strew each with 
a little finely chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper, 
pour two ounces of melted butter, and squeeze the juice 
of a lemon oyer them, cover with a buttered sheet of paper, 
put the lid over the saut6-pan and boil for six or seven 
minutes; after which, remove the lid and paper, dress 
the fish carefully on a dish, pour some Italian sauce (No. 
204), prepared for that purpose, over them, and serve. 

444. FILLETED WHITING, VENITIAN. 

Fillet four whiting as in No. 443, place these in a deep 
dish, season with salt, pepper, a few sprigs of thyme, two 
bay-leaves, three shalots cut in slices, and a few blades 
of parsley; add one tablespoonful of good vinegar and 
two of olive-oil. After having let them steep thus for at 
least two hours, drain on a cloth,, dip each fillet sepa- 
rately into light-made frying batter, and throw one after 



2o6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

another into some frying fat, properly heated for that 
purpose. As soon as they have acquired a light-brown 
colour take them out of the fat, lay on a clean cloth 
in order that the gi'ease may be absorbed; dish them in 
a circle on a hot dish, pour some Venitian sauce over, and 
serve. 

■ 445. FILLETS OF WHITING, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Skin and fillet four whiting as in No. 444 ; place these 
side by side in a large well-buttered gratin-dish; lay a 
border of plain boiled potatoes, chopped iine, round them; 
season the lot with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; 
moisten with two ounces of melted butter ; squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over the fillets and sprinkle these lightly 
with some fine bread-crumbs ; cover the lot with a buttered 
sheet of paper and set in the oven to bake gently for about 
twenty or twenty-five minutes, before serving. 

446. GURNARD A LA GENOISE. 

Cut off the head and fins of two gurnards. Boil the fish 
in water with a little salt and a glass of vinegar; when 
done strain and skin, dish up, and pour some Genoise sauce 
(No. 207) over. Then garnish them round with some quen- 
elles of whiting (No. 275) previously made and cooked in 
the water in which the gurnards were boiled, and serve. 

Note. — Gurnards cooked or baked as above may be 
served with Tomato, Sharp, Ravigote, or Italienne sauce, 
according to taste. 

447, GURNARD A L'INDIENNE. 

In the same way as the foregoing, cut off the heads and 
fins of the gurnards ; cleanse and wipe the fish well and 
then .stuff them with some veal stuffing, well seasoned ; 
sow up and score slightly on both sides. Place these 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 207 

fish in a buttered baking-dish or saute-pan; season with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle over some finely chopped 
parsley, moisten with a little broth, some essence of mush- 
rooms and two glasses of sherry,' and set these in the oven 
to bake, taking care to baste them at least every five 
minutes until they are done, which will take about half 
an hour. Then dress the fish on a dish, out and pull away 
the thread with which they were sewn, place the dish in 
the open oven, add a little broth to detach the glaze from 
the bottom and sides of the vessel in which the fish were 
cooked, reduce it to a half-glaze and mix it with some 
Indian sauce (No. 185). Add a little essence of anchovies, 
stir it well before pouring over, and serve. 



Eemaeks on Beeam. 

Bream are taken in large quantities in the Broads and 
livers of Norfolk during the spring months, and sent from 
there to the great inland towns, where during Lent and 
the Hebrew Passover they are in constant demand, and 
command a good price. 

448. SEA BREAM, MAItRE D'HOTEL. 

Bream is prepared similarly to red mullet (No. 435), and 
can also be cooked and dressed with any other fish sauce, 
according to taste. 

Remarks on Lampeeys, 

Lampreys are in season from March to July, and are 
still considered great delicacies in the London market, 
although they do not possess such a high repute as in 
bygone days. Their average size is from one and a half to 
three pounds. TJiey principally come from the Severn and 
the Thames, but none are in the market during the winter. 



2o8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

449. LAMPREY. MATELOTTE. 

Put two lampreys into an earthen or tin vessel with 
plenty of freezing salt, with which they must be scoured 
well, and afterwards thoroughly washed in several waters. 
By this means only can they be freed from the slimy 
mucus which adheres to them. Then trim and cut into 
pieces of about three inches long ; place these in a stew- 
pan with a sliced carrot and onion, a little ground mace, 
a dozen pepper-corns, a few sprigs each of thyme and 
parsley, three bay-leaves, a few button mushrooms, and 
salt. Moisten this with a pint of port wine and let it 
stew gently on a moderate fire till done; then take half 
the liquor in which the fish have been stewed, reduce it in 
a small saucepan with a little brown sauce, add a glass of 
port wine, and as soon as this sauce is reduced to its proper 
consistency add a little butter, a little essence of anchovies, 
and the juice of a lemon. Pass it through a tammy into 
a bain-marie containing the mushrooms at first put with 
the fish ; add two dozen small stewed onions (287) and a 
few quenelles of fish, previously cooked in fish broth. 
Keep these hot, and meantime drain the pieces of lamprey; 
dish them up ; pour the sauce over ; garnish round with 
the tails of either prawns, shrimps, or crayfish, and serve. 

450. LAMPREY. BORDELAISE. 

Cleanse two fine lampreys as in the foregoing; form 
them into a circular shape by fastening with a string; 
stew in a pint of claret with the addition of vegetables 
and dried herbs as in the Matelotte, to which two mashed 
cloves of garlic must be added, and as soon as they are 
properly cooked reduce their liquor in a stewpan with a 
similar quantity of brown sauce and a little essence of 
mushrooms to its proper consistency ; then add a little 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 209 

essence of anchovies, a little grated nutmeg, a small 
quantity of cayenne, and the juice of a lemon ; stir this 
well together and pass it through a tammy into a bain- 
marie containing two dozen button mushrooms and the 
tail of a small lobster, properly prepared and cut into 
small dice for that purpose. Dish up the lampreys after 
having drained them; sauce them over; garnish vi'ith a 
border of crolitons fried in butter, and serve. 

451. LAMPREY, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Clean two lampreys as in No. 450, rub them over gently 
with some mixed white spices, place them in an earthen- 
ware pan in a cool place, and let them be for twenty-four 
hours ; after which, stew gently with the moisture that 
has run from them, add an ounce of butter and half a 
pint of beef gravy, or enough to cover the fish. When 
nearly done add a glass of port wine, then complete the 
cooking by sprinkling a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
over the fish, and dish up, when properly cooked with their 
liquor, and serve. 

Note. — Lampreys cut in pieces and properly seasoned 
are also made into pies. They are exceedingly good and 
appreciated in Gloucestershire, where they are prepared and 
baked in that style, and eaten cold as well as hot. 



Remarks on Haddock. 

The weight of this fish varies from two to four pounds. 
They are generally cured in London by smoking in sawdust 
or burning fir-branches, but the far-famed Scotch " baddies " 
come principally from Findhorn, near Aberdeen. 

452. FRESH HADDOCK WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Clean and wipe two haddocks, boil in salt water for 
about ten minutes, drain, and dish up on a napkin, 



210 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and serve with a sauce-boat full of Egg sauce (No. 182) 
apart. 

Haddock, when plain boiled, can be served with any kind, 
of fish sauce. ■ 

453. HADDOCK BROILED. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Take two haddocks and clean them ; score them four or 
five times witb a sharp knife on both sides, and steep 
in a little olive-oil, salt, and pepper, for about an hour; 
after which, place them on a gridiron previously' rubbed 
with chalk, and broil gently on a clear fire, taking care 
not to break them in turning over. When done on both 
sides dish up, and serve with Mustard sauce, (No. 223) 
in a boat apart. 

454. FILLETS OF HADDOCK A L'lTALIENNE. 

Fillet two haddocks, remove the skin by passing a 
pointed knife under the fillet so as to detach the tail end 
of the skin from the flesh of the fish, then by taking a 
firm hold of this detached piece of skin and inserting the 
knife with the edge of the blade turned from you, draw 
the skin towards you and keep moving the knife to and 
fro, at the same time pressing the blade firmly on the 
skin. Having thus removed the skin, cut each fillet in 
two or more, trim, and lay them neatly in a saut^-pan 
with two ounces of clarified butter ; "season with salt and 
pepper, squeeze the half of a lemon over them, sprinkle 
half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, cover the lot with 
a well-buttered paper, and cook for about ten minutes 
on a moderate fire or in the oven ; after which, remove the 
paper, drain the fillets, dish up, and pour some Italian 
sauce (No. 204) over and serve. 

Haddock filleted and cooked as above can be served 
with any other sauce, such as Hollandaise, Genoise, 
Venitienne, Sic, &c. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 211 



455. HADDOCK AU GRATIN. 

Skin, clean, and wipe two haddocks; place them in a 
gratin-pan or dish previously buttered for that purpose, 
season with salt and pepper, moisten with a gill of white 
wine and the liquor of a pint of tinned champignons ; lay a 
dozen of the mushrooms on the haddocks ; put an ounce of 
butter, divided into eight parts, on the fish ; sprinkle a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and four of raspings 
over the fish, and put the gratin-pan in a well-heated oven 
for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on the same dish. 

456. HADDOCK FKIED. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Prepare this in the same manner as fried whiting 
(No. 240), and serve with plain Butter sauce. 

457. FILLETED HADDOCK, CITIZEN STYLE, WITH 
MAITRE D'HdTEL SAUCE. 

Prepare this in the same way as fillets of whiting 
(No. 445), and serve with Mattre d'H6tel sauce apart. 

Smoked haddocks should not be broiled but boiled, as 
any impurity that may be attached to the fish when bought 
is thereby at once removed. 

458. SMOKED HADDOCK. 

Trim one or more haddocks and place them in a pan 
covered with lukewarm water. Boil ; and after one minute 
of ebullition drain the fish well, dish up, lay a little fresh 
butter on it, and serve very hot. 

459. SMOKED HADDOCK, CITIZEN STYLE. 
Trini and boil two haddocks as ia No. 458, and then .skin 
and bone them carefully ; then chop them into small dice, 
and mix these well with a pound and a half of boiled 



212 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

potatoes, previously cooked and rubbed through a wire 
sieve ; season with peppei', a little cayenne, and nutmeg ; 
lay the mixture on a gratin-dish, nicely shaped ; melt two 
ounces of fresh butter, mix with it the yolks of two eggs 
properly beaten, and pour it over the fish, with a few 
pieces of butter in addition ; then set the dish in a mode- 
rately heated oven for about ten or twelve minutes, or till 
it is of a nice golden-brown colour, and serve. 



Eemarks on Herrings. 

Fresh herrings are very nutritious, but ought to be 
eaten only when full of roe, as they lose much of their 
quality when otherwise. 

460. FRESH HERRINGS. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Cut off the heads and fins of four herrings; clean, 
scrape, and wash them well ; score them in the same way 
as broiled grey mullets or whiting ; then place on a dish, 
season with salt, pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of salad- 
oil, and after having let them steep for half an hour put 
them on a gridiron to broil for four or five minutes on 
each side; then dress them on a dish and serve with 
Mustard sauce (No. 223) apart. 

461. FRESH HERRINGS FRIED WITH PLAIN BUTTER 
SAUCE. 

Prepare some herrings fis in No. 460 ; steep in milk ; 
flour and bread-crumb them ; fry in boiling fat ; and serve 
with plain Butter sauce apart. 



Remarks on Halibut. 

Halibut is only to be found on the northern coasts, and 
grows to an enormous §ize, 200 lbs. being their ordinary 
weight. Their season is March, April, and May. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 213 

462. HALIBUT. OYSTER SAUCE. 

This fish is prepared and cooked in every way as cod, 
oyster sauce (No. 405). 

It can also be fried (this being the mode the Jews eat it 
the most), baked, broiled, and served with any fish sauce 
(see Ood). 

Remarks on Plaice, Floundees, &c. 

Plaice, flounders, and dabs are flatfishes, like soles, tur- 
bot, and halibut. They are generally plentiful in the market 
during their proper season, which is spring ; they are caught 
in great quantities in the Thames. 

463. PLAICE, FLOUNDERS. AND DABS, FRIED. 

These fish are prepared in every respect as halibut or 
haddock. 



Remaeks on Congee Eels. 

Conger eels are found principally on the sea-coasts of the 
south of England and Ireland ; they are sometimes of an 
enormous size, weighing as much as a hundred pounds. 
The flesh of the big fish is rather tough and coarse, but the 
smaller fish can be prepared in the same way as fresh- 
water eels, although they are not so delicate and nutritious. 

Conger is in season from March to October. 

464. CONGER EEL. MAITRE D'HStEL SAUCE. 
Take a piece of conger eel weighing about two pounds ; 
cleanse it most carefully ; wash and tie it round with 
string, and blanch in boiling salt water for ten minutes ; 
drain, and put it in a stewpan ; cover it with water, add 
two sliced onions, a handful of parsley, two bay-leaves, a 



214 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

glass of vinegar, one clove of garlic, and season with salt 
and pepper ; let it simmer for half an hour ; after which, 
drain and dress on a dish, and serve with Maltre d'H6tel 
sauce (No 159) apart. 

465. CONGER EEL, ROASTED. 

Cleanse, skin, and wash a piece of conger eel weighing 
about three pounds j place this in a dish, with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, a gill of salad-oil, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, 
two sprigs of thyme, a sliced onion, and small carrot, to 
steep for about two hours. After this, put the fish in a 
buttered baking-pan ; cover with a buttered or oiled 
paper and bake it in a hot oven for half an hour or till 
well coloured ; then put it on a very hot dish, remove the 
grease or fat from the pan in which it was baked ; put in 
the pan a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a giU of 
Spanish sauce (No 151), and the juice of a lemon ; stir this 
■well on the fire, and after boiling for a few minutes pour 
over the fish and serve. 



Remarks on Febsh-water Eels. 

There are three or four distinct species of fresh- water 
eels found in this country. The most common of these are 
the sharp-nosed and the broad-nosed eels, inhabiting and 
abounding in all fresh-waters throughout Europe, and in 
short in almost every part of the world except the Arctic 
regions. The eel will live a long time out of water, and 
migrate from place to place by crawling overland ; but the 
strangest part of all in the construction of this fish is, that 
it possesses a heart located in its tail. 

Eels vary in size, some weighing over ten pounds, but 
usually from one to three. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 215 



4«6. STEWED EELS, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Eels are generally alive when brought into the kitchen ; 
it is therefore necessary, on account of their tenacity of life, 
to know an easy way of killing them ; this is done by merely 
inserting the point of a sharp instrument into the spine at 
the back of the head to the depth of an inch, when the eel 
will become perfectly motionless. Then scour the fish well 
with freezing salt, in order to remove the slimy mucus 
attached to the skin ; after which, with a cloth in your left 
hand take a firm hold of the eel's head, and with the right 
band proceed to detach the skin just below the gills with 
the point of a small kuife. When this is done take hold 
of the loosened skin with your right hand and force it to 
slide off the fish ; cut off the head, lay the fish flat on the 
table, and with the same pointed knife open it from one 
extremity to the other by pressing the point of the blade 
against the backbone on both sides ; remove the gut, &c., 
trim away the fins, clean and wipe thoroughly both halves 
of the fish after having taken the bone out, then cut the 
eel into pieces of about three inches long, place them in 
a stewpan with a sliced carrot and onion, a few sprigs of 
parsley and thyme, a few pepper-corns, four cloves, a blade 
of mace, and a little salt. Moisten the lot with half a bottle 
of port wine, cover with a buttered paper and replace the 
lid on the stewpan ; set this on the stove-fire to stew gently 
for about twenty minutes ; after which drain, and trim the 
pieces, keeping their liquor to make the sauce, by melting 
two ounces of butter into a small stewpan. When this is 
done add two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir it over the 
fire with a wooden spoon until it becomes slightly coloured, 
then moisten gradually with the liquor in which the eels 
were stewed ; add to it a gill or two of good stock and two 



2i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

glasses of port wine ; stir this sauce over the fire till it 
boils, when it must be drawn to the corner of the stove, in 
order to let it throw up gently the scum, which must be 
skimmed oS ; then, if necessary, reduce the sauce to its 
proper consistency, pass it through a tammy into the stew- 
pan containing the pieces of eel, add a few prepared 
mushroom buttons, a pat of fresh butter, a little blanched 
and chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy ; toss the. whole well 
together over the fire till well mixed and boiling, then dish 
the eel up, pour the remainder of the sauce over it, garnish 
round with crolltons fried in butter, and serve. 



467. EEL MATELOTTE. 

Prepare a nice-sized eel as in No. 466, cut it into pieces 
of three inches long, and place them in a saut6-pan with 
two ounces of butter, the half of an onion chopped fine, 
and half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Season with 
salt, pepper, a little nutmeg,- one clove of garlic, and two 
bay-leaves; set these on the fire to brown a little; after 
which, sprinkle a tablespoonful of flour; fry for two 
minutes longer, stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; 
then moisten with half a 'pottle of red wine (claret, 
Burgundy, or Italian) and half a pint of stock; let it 
simmer for twenty-five minutes, and put the pieces of eel 
on a dish in a circular' order, so that each piece rests on 
the other, viz., a slice of crodton and a piece of eel, and so 
on. Then pass the sauce through a tammy into a stewpan, 
add a little anchovy butter, together with the juice of a 
lemon ; stir this on the fire till it boils, fill up the centre 
of the dish with two dozen button onions (No. 287), pre- 
viously stewed and glazed for that purpose, pour the sauce 
over the lot, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 217 

468. EEL MILANAISE. 

Skin, bone, and cleanse two eels as previously described ; 
cut them in pieces about two inches long and brown them 
nicely in butter, properly seasoned with salt and pepper, 
for eight minutes ; after which, take them out, squeeze the 
juice of two lemons over them, sprinkle each with some 
fine herbs and mace, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry 
them in clarified butter. When properly done dish up 
the pieces on a napkin and serve very hot, with a sharp 
sauce to taste, apart. 

469. FILLET OF EEL, FRIED. TARTARE SAUCE. 

Fillet two eels of about one and a half pound each in 
the usual way. Steep these in boiling water for four 
minutes, then rub the outside of the fillets well with a 
cloth, in order to remove the second oily skin ; cut them 
in pieces three inches long, put them in a stewpan with 
enough water to cover the lot, add a glass of vinegar, 
a sliced onion and carrot, a "bouquet garni," salt, and a 
dozen pepper-corns. Simmer for twenty minutes; after 
which, let the eels cool for half an hour in the liquor; 
then drain, and place them on a cold dish. Mix in a basin 
two eggs with a tablespoonful each of oil and water, beat 
this with a fork as for an omelet, then dip each piece of 
eel in it; bread -ciumb them afterwards, and fry in hot 
fat, previously heated for that purpose, till of a nice brown 
colour ; then dish them up on a napkin garnished with 
fried parsley, and serve with Tartare sauce (No. 221) in a 
sauce-boat apart. 

470. COLLARED EEL (COLD). 

Skin, bone, and cleanse as described two eels of about 
two pounds each ; lay each half flat on the table, the inside 



2i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

up ; sprinkle these with salt, pepper, nutmeg, fine herbs, 
and ground mace. Roll them up tightly, fold each roll 
in white kitchen paper, and tie them round with string ; 
place in a saucepan with- a quart of ordinary stock, a 
sliced onion and carrot, one .stick of celery, a "bouquet 
garni," salt and pepper to taste, two glasses of sherry, and 
a quarter of a pound of calf's gelatine. Boil this for half 
an hour, then strain the liquor through a tammy into a 
basin ; take the packets of eel out and let them cool, as 
well as the liquor, which will turn into a jelly. When 
cold untie and remove the paper from each eel ; lay on 
a dish, and decorate with the ' jelly aforesaid and a few 
sprigs of parsley well washed and dried. This is a delicious 
and not expensive mode of preparing eels ; they will keep 
several days in cold water. 



Remarks on Smelts. 

Smelts are great favourites in dinner menus, and are 
also often used by cooks as a garnish to other fish, 
although I do not advocate their employment as such. 
Smelts are in season from September to May. 

471. SMELTS, FRIED. 

Take the. smelts, pull out the gills carefully, trim the 
fins, and wipe the fish with a cloth. Then steep them in 
milk and flour them, or else flour them first and pass 
through beaten eggs, and afterwards put them in fine 
bread-crumbs. Fry in some properly heated lard or fat 
till of a nice colour and crisp ; dish up on a napkin ; 
garnish with fried parsley, and serve with, a lemon cut 
in four. 

Note. — The above mode is generally the one used to serve 
smelts, but they can also be dressed au gratin, in which 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 219 

case the larger ones are preferable. Proceed as for sole au 
gratin (No. 428). 



Remarks on "Whitebait. 

It is said that whitebait is the rich man's fish, beginning 
when Parliament meets, and finishing when Parliament 
adjourns. The fact is, that its season proper is from 
February to August. There are many controversies on 
the subject of whitebait, as to whether it is the fry of 
other fish or a distinct species of fish. 

Mr. Frank Bucklaud tells us that whitebait is nothing 
else but the fry of sprats, herrings, gobies, weevers, sand- 
eelsr smelts, pipe-fish, sticklebacks, and gore-bills. Be this 
so or not, whitebait has now become a valuable article 
of food, but owing to its extreme delicacy, it cannot be 
convej'ed any great distance without injury ; neither can 
it be kept fresh many hours after it has been caught. 



472. WHITEBAIT. 

The following is the only mode of properly cooking 
whitebait : — Drain it on a clean cloth so that all the water 
is thoroughly absorbed, but abstain as much as possible 
from handling so delicate a fish. Then roll them in flour 
and place them on a coarse sieve to remove any excess of 
flour, by gently shaking them. Then drop them into well- 
heated frying fat (lard preferred) of about 400° Fahrenheit 
temperature, and as soon as they become crisp (which will 
be in about one minute, and is shown by the whity-brown 
colour) drain on a sieve for a minute or so. Sprinkle on 
a little salt ; dish up on a napkin on a hot dish, and serve 
with quarters of lemon, caj'enne pepper, and cut brown 
bread and butter on plates apart. 



220 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Remarks on Sprats. 

These small fish might be employed to better advantage 
and be a source of great income to fishermen were their 
monetary value better understood ; in fact, sprats ouglit to 
be placed among the most beneficial and profitable fish 
caught, for by proper care and management they could be 
turned into food, sauce, and paste, as well as manure. 
The latter form of using them, however, would very soon 
be discarded if their different modes and preparation as 
an accessory to food were known. 

Sprats can be preserved in the same manner as anchovies 
and made into paste sauce and butter (see Anchovy Butter). 
They can also be preserved in oil, in the same way as 
sardines in tins (and this should be an industry in itself), 
but very often are sold, I am sorry to say, with the brand 
of the latter name. Therefore if sprats are offered and 
sold to the public under different forms and names, their 
quality is appreciated, and should be so recognised and dealt 
with under their proper name, when they would, as a matter 
of course, very soon assume their real commercial value. 

473. SPRATS, BROILED. 

Clean and wipe the sprats (which must be fresh) in a 
coarse cloth, in order to remove the scales by gently 
rubbing the fish ; place them afterwards on a gridiron 
and broil over a brisk fire for two minutes on each side ; 
sprinkle with salt, and serve on a very hot dish with a little 
melted butter poured over. 

474. SPRATS, FRIED. 

Clean and wipe the sprats as in the foregoing, and follow 
the directions given for smelts fried (No. 471). 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



475. SPRATS AU GRATIN. 

After having cleaned and nibbed the largest sprats as 
described, proceed-as for haddock au gratin (No. 455). 

476. SPRATS, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Prepare the sprats in the usual way; butter a baking- 
dish ; mix well in a basin, a teaspoonful of fine herbs, a 
little nutmeg, salt, pepper, and a quarter of a pound of 
bread-crumbs; strew the bottom of the baking-dish with this 
mixture, then arrange a layer of sprats, sprinkle on these 
some of the bread-crumb mixture, and so on, for three 
layers of sprats ; moisten with half a pint of good stock, 
sprinkle the remainder of the bread-crumbs over, put on 
the top a few pats of butter the size of a nnt, and place 
the dish in a well-heated oven to bake for about half an 
hour ; and before serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
them. 



Remarks on Lobsters, Crabs, and Crawfish. 

Norwegian and Scotch lobsters are the best that come 
into the London market. They are known by the texture 
of their shells and are dark in colour. 

Those coming from the Channel Islands and south coast 
are light in colour and thin of shell, and seldom stand the 
journey, most of them dying on the; way. These southern 
lobsters are, however, very sweet and delicate in flavour, 
if cooked immediately after being caught. 

In buying lobsters the heaviest should be selected, and 
the medium-sized ones are generally the best. 

Lobsters should be boiled while alive by dropping them- 
into boiling water with a little salt. The time to cook 



222 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the same varies according to size ; small lobster will take 
twenty minutes and a large one three-quarters of an hour. 

Crabs make nice dishes when properly cooked and 
decorated ; the best are caught on the south coast of 
Devonshire, and often run very large in size, some having 
weighed twelve and three-quarter pounds. Those from the 
north, especially from Scotland, are much smaller, and at 
times very sweet. 

Crabs should be killed before being boiled or they are 
likely to shoot off their claws ; you kill them by stabbing 
them through under the tail with either a trussing-needle 
or ice-prick. 

Crawfish are treated in the same way as lobsters ; those 
from the Scilly Isles, Cornwall, and Channel Islands are the 
best. 

477. PLAIN BOILED LOBSTERS, CRABS, AND 
CRAWFISH. 

Lobsters, crabs, and crawfish can always be obtained 
ready cooked, and are generally eaten with oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper, or with a Mayonnaise sauce. 

478. LOBSTER A L'AMERICAINE. 
Select a couple of live hen lobsters; take a firm hold 
of them by the back with the left hand ; spread the tails 
over the kitchen-table and cut them across in scollops 
about an inch and a half thick ; cut the body in half, length- 
wise ; save the residue liquid and the black part forming the 
eggs or coral by putting them into a basin ; break off the 
claws from the shell ; cut the large ones in two ; then with 
the back of a large kitchen-knife or chopper break the 
shells, without, however, separating them, so as to facilitate 
removing the flesh when cooked ; trim the other small ones 
and cut the body-shells again in two; put the lot in a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 223 

sautd-pan with half a gill of olive-oil previously made hot 
and a few sprigs of thyme ; toss these over a brisk fire for 
about five minutes. When the pieces of lobsters will have 
assumed a red colour, sprinkle. one onion and two shalots 
chopped fine; stir the contents over the fire for another 
five minutes ; then add half a gill of brandy and set fire 
to it ; stir for a few seconds to feed the flames ; after which, 
moisten with half a pint of white dry wine and two fresh 
tomatoes, peeled and chopped ; season with salt and pepper, 
and simmer for ten minutes longer, taking care to turn the 
pieces over. Meanwhile melt two ounces of fresh butter 
in a small stewpan ; add the residue mixture, with a few 
sprigs of chervil, tarragon, and a pounded bay-leaf; stir 
this gently by the side of the fire till it boils; sprinkle 
a small pinch-of cayenne pepper; stir and add the same 
to the lobster ; mix the lot well together over the fire, and 
when ready dish up the pieces of lobsters, pour the sauce 
over, and serve. 

Note. — The above recipe, together with a few good and 
practical hints on cookery, was given to me by my old 
friend Mr. T. Gamier, for the last twelve years chef at 
the Oaf 6 Eoyal, Regent Steet, to whom I herewith convey 
my most humble and grateful thanks. 



Eemarks on Tegut. 

There are several species of trout. Some are called 
salmon-trout and migrate to the sea; their flesh is of a 
pink rosy colour, and in taste differ but slightly from 
young salmon. Their weight varies from three to sixteen 
pounds. Others are non-migratory, live in lakes, rivers, 
and streams, and the colder and more rapid the water the 
better the fish. The flesh is almost white and very delicate ; 



224 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the usual weight seldom exceeds three pounds, although 
there have been instances of common trout having been 
caught in lakes and rivers weighing fifteen pounds. 
The season for trout is from March to September. 

479. TROUT A LITALIENNE. 

Remove the inside of two trout, through the gills, with- 
out cutting the fish; cut off the fins, wash and wipe the 
trout, and boil in salt water and a glass of vinegar for 
six minutes or more, according to the size of the fish; 
drain and divest of the skin, and lay them on a dish 
and keep hot. Meanwhile add to half a pint of Italian 
sauce (No. 205), previously made for that purpose, a pat of 
anchovy butter, a little nutmeg, and lemon- juice; work 
this well together, and pour over the fish before serving. 

480. TROUT A LA MEUNlfeRE. 

Cleanse, trim, wash, and wipe two or more trout. 
Score these three times on each side and pass them through 
the flour, taking care to shake them well, before putting 
in a frying-pan with three ounces of clarified butter; add 
a teaspoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, as well 
as the juice of two lemons, and when the fish is nicely 
coloured on both sides, serve on a hot dish with the 
remainder of clarified butter poured over it. 

481. TROUT A LAURORE. 

Boil, skin, and trim the trout ; then place on a silver 
or gratin-dish, mask each fish with reduced Allemande 
sauce (No. 156), lay a fine wire sieve across the dish, with- 
out touching the fish ; then rub with a wooden spoon the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs over each fish through the 
^ieve, taking care that the curling shreds cover the sur- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



225 



face of each trout equally. About half an hour before 
serving, put them in the oven to get a fine amber hue; 
after which, pour round the trout some sauce made as 
follows : — Put half a pint of Bechamel sauce (No. 154) into 
a bain-marie, add to it a pat of lobster -butter, the yolks 
of three eggs properly beaten, a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegai", and a little cayenne ; mix these well together with 
a small whisk or wooden spoon into the bain-marie before 
pouring out, and finish by making a border with two dozen 
mussels fiied in batter. 

482. BROILED TROUT. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Clean and split a trout at the back, oil it over, season 
virith nutmeg, salt, and pepper; then half an hour after, 
broil it over a moderately hot fire, and when done serve 
with some Hollandaise sauce (No. 184) in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

Note. — Trout can be prepared in every variety of form 
and style in which salmon is dressed and served. 



Remaeks on Pike oe Jack. 

This fish, which might be called the water-wolf or fresh- 
water shark on account of its voraciousness and cannibalism, 
can in that respect be compared to the conger eel. 

Pike will feed on ducklings, and any sort of fish, as 
well as on its own species, and is not at all particular as 
to size of its victim, as there are examples of two pike 
weighing some nineteen pounds having been caught alive, 
fastened firmly together, the head of one within the mouth 
and jaws of the other. 

Pike are the largest of fresh- water fish, some having been 
caught weighing as much as sixty pounds and measuring 



226 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

nearly four feet in length. Of course, fish of that size 
are scarce, but the general weight varies from five to nine 
pounds, and the latter are the best for culinary purposes. 
The fl^esh is white, firm, and rather pleasing to the palate 
when properly prepared ; but the roe causes a disagreeable, 
nauseous feeling, and should never be eaten. 



4S3. PIKE A LA LYONNAISE AU BLEU. 

The larger the pike the better for this dish, and it will 
improve if kept two days in a cool place after being caught. 
Scale,* draw the gills, cut off the fins, and thoroughly 
cleanse and wipe the pike ; then with a string tie the 
head, and truss the fish into the shape of the letter S. 
Afterwards put the fish in the kettle covered with " Court 
Bouillon " (No. 392), and simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour ; then take the fish-kettle to a cool place, let the pike 
remain in the liquor for at least twelve hours ; if twenty- 
four all the better, as there is no comparison in the taste 
and quality of a pike that has soaked for twenty-four hours 
and one that has only been in the " Court Bouillon " for a 
couple of hours. When wanted, take up the fish very 
carefully from, the strainer and lay it on a dish with the 
same care, remove the string, decorate with a few sprigs 
of fresh parsley, and moisten with a pint of sauce made 
with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, well mixed together, in quantity of two- 
thirds oil to one of vinegar. 

Note. — Pike cooked in the same way may also be served 
with Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce (Nos. 218 or 221). ' 

* The easiest way to remove the scales of pike is by placing the fish 
in a sink and pour some boiling water over it, when the scraping will 
be effectually done. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 227 

484. BOILED PIKE. ITALIAN SHARP SAUCE. 

After having scaled, cleansed, and wiped a nice pike, tie 
it up in the same way as in the foregoing, and boil it in 
a " Court Bouillon " (No. 392) for about fifty minutes, 
more or less, according to the size of the fish ; after 
which, let it rest and cool in the liquor for twenty-four 
hours. 

When the time comes for warming the fish, drain it, 
pour the " Court Bouillon " into another vessel, clean the 
kettle, and replace the liquor with the pike in it, to warm 
for about twenty minutes, without, however, letting it boil ; 
then drain, and dish up on a napkin, remove the string, 
and send to table with some Italian sharp sauce (No. 205) 
in a sauce-boat apart. 

Note. — Pike cooked in the above manner may be served 
with any fish sauce, according to taste. 

485. PIKE BAKED, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Prepare a large pike in the same manner as described 
above; fill the paunch with some well-seasoned veal stuffing, 
sew it up with a trussing-needle and fine string, truss as 
before specified in the form of the -letter S, make several 
deep incisions on both sides of the fish, and place in a 
baking-dish seasoned with two chopped shalots, one table- 
spoonful of parsley, and two of mushrooms, salt,- pepper, 
and half a dozen cloves ; add between six and eight ounces 
of fresh butter, half a. bottle of cooking sherry, and half 
a pint of good stock. Cover the lot with a well-buttered 
paper, and put the fish thus prepared in a well-heated 
oven to bake for about an hour, taking care to frequently 
baste it with its liquor. When done dish up, pour two 
glasses more, of sherry, in order to detach all the glaze 



228 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and herbs from the bottom and sides of the baking-dish 
in which the fish has been baked; pass this through a 
tammy into a small stewpan in which half a pint of good . 
brown sauce has previously been warmed, mix and reduce 
the whole to a proper consistency ; add one ounce of fresh 
butter, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, the juice of a 
lemon, and a little cayenne ; mix this well together on the 
stovo, and pour over the fish before serving, having pre- 
viously removed the string. 

486. PIKE IN QUENELLES. 

Prepare two or three pounds of pike in quenelles (see 
Fish Forcemeat, No. 275) in the following manner : — When 
cold, lay the forcemeat in large spoonfuls separately on the 
table, roll these with your hands iiito the shape of sausages, 
and cook them by poaching in ordinary boiling stock for 
five or six minutes. Meanwhile have a pint of good re- 
duced Veloute sauce (No. 153) ready and hot; when the 
quenelles are properly poached, strain and put them in a 
bowl or deep dish ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Note. — Pike, previous to being made into forcemeat, 
should be filleted, and the following is the proper mode 
of operation. The smaller fish should be used for this 
purpose : — Lay the fish on the table with its back towards 
you, insert the knife below the gill with your left hand, 
press lightly on the upper part of the fish, then draw 
the knife down close to the backbone till the fillet is 
removed; repeat the same thing on the other side, and 
lay the fillets on the table with the skin downward ; insert 
the edge of the knife close to the skin at the extreme end, 
draw it to and fro, in keeping the blade closely pressed to 
the skin, when it will detach itself from the fillet. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 229 

Remarks on Perch. 

The perch is one of the most beautiful fish. Its colour is 
golden bronze, transversed with bars of dark green, the 
whole shaded with a lovely iridescence, and fins of a splendid 
red tinge as seen sometimes in old-stained glass. 

Its flesh is much appreciated by epicures, as witness 
"water souchet " as served at ministerial dinners and 
large banquets. It seldom weighs more than two pounds, 
although some have been caught in the Norfolk Broads 
weighing as much as four and a half pounds. 

487. PERCH, FRIED. 

Remove the gills, scale, and thoroughly cleanse the 
perch ; prick them slightly on both sides, and place 
in a dish with a little salad-oil, salt, pepper, the juice of 
two lemons, an onion shred fine, and half a spoonful of 
chopped parsley ; let the fish pickle for an hour, then wipe 
and flour them in -the usual way, fry in a properly heated 
fat to a nice colour, and serve very hot with quarters 
of lemon. 

488. PERCH, GARDENER STYLE. 

Cleanse the perch as in the foregoing; clean also a 
handful of parsley-roots, and boil for half an hour in a 
quart of salted water; after which, throw the perch in and 
boil for five or six minutes longer; then dress in a dish 
with some of the liquor ; spread the roots on the fish, and 
serve with melted butter and boiled potatoes apart. 

489. PERCH AU GRATIN. 

After having cleansed and scaled three or four perch in 
the usual way, put them in a saute-pan properly buttered. 



230 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and a little salt sprinkled over. Moisten with two glasses 
of sherry, and cover with a buttered sheet of paper. 
Boil on the Stove, and afterwards put them into a 
moderately heated oven to bake for ten minutes, taking 
care to baste them meanwhile two or three times ; trans- 
fer carefully to a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle over them 
some fine herbs ; mix the remainder of the liquor in which 
the fish was baked with a gill of Spanish sauce (No. 151), 
and pour it over ; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, set on the 
oven to gratin for ten or twelve minutes, and serve. 

490. PERCH A LA VENITIENNE. 

When the number of perch required have been thoroughly 
cleansed, as described in the previous numbers, boil them 
in "Court Bouillon" (No. 392) for seven or eight minutes; 
dish up in a row, moisten witb some Venitienne sauce (No. 
206), and serve. 

491. FILLETS OF PERCH A L'lTALIENNE. 

The filleting of perch is done in" the same way as that of 
pike. Lay the fillets in a saut^-pan with some clarified 
butter; season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and 
lemon-juice. Set the fillets to simmer on the fire for 
about . ten minutes, and when thoroughly done drain on a 
cloth, dish up in the form of a circle, pour some Italian 
sauce (No. 204) over, and send to table. 

Fillets of perch thus prepared can also be served with 
any other fish sauce, ,from which the dish will take its 
name, viz., k la Hollandaise, k la Ravigotte, &o., &c. 

492. FILLETS OP PERCH A LA ROMAINE. 
Prepare a dozen fillets of perch in the usual manner; 

pickle these for an hour as for perch fried, wipe and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 231 

flour in the same way, then pass them through some yolks 
of eggs well beaten and salted ; fry in olive-oil till of a 
nice colour ; drain, and dish up in a circle, pour some 
Tomato sauce (No. 217) over them, after having mixed 
with it a pat of anchovy butter, and serve. 

493. PERCH, ANGLER'S STYLE. 

Take the perch as caught by the river-side, not drawn 
or otherwise cleaned. Procure some stiflf clay, and with it 
give the fish a thin coating of about the sixteenth of an 
inch thick. Having previously lighted a fire of wood, so 
as to produce a quantity of hot-fire-holding embers and 
cinders, bury the fish in it for about twenty minutes or 
more, according to the size, when it will be baked and 
found to eat to perfection. 

Note. — Any other kind of fresh-water fish can be cooked 
in this style. Anglers, when out for the day, will find it 
worth trying. For their particular benefit the recipe is 
included, and to them it is dedicated. 



Remaeks on Carp. 

Carp caught in rapid waters are held in high estimation, 
especially on the Continent ; but those found in stagnant 
waters and feeding on muddy food have a very muddy 
flavour. To prevent this taste from being so pronounced, 
carp should, after being taken out of a pond, be placed in 
running water in a box (with plenty of perforated holes) 
before being cooked. No doubt the monks had in olden 
times some excellent recipes for cooking carp, but these 
must have been lost with the destruction of their orders and 
monasteries. 

Carp live to a very great age, some say for centuries, 



232 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and reach the weight of twenty- five pounds; at least 
some were caught of that weight. The flesh of the carp 
is of a white-rosy colour, rather indigestible, and it requires 
to be cooked in well-seasoned sauces. 

It is absolutely necessary when cleaning the fish to ex- 
tract an angular substance called the gall-stone, which is 
located at the back of the head. If not removed it will 
impart a bitter taste and render the best fish almost unfit 
for table. 

494. CARP A LA BOURGIGNONE. 

Take two carp of three or four pounds each ; scald them 
to enable the scales to be removed more efiiciently ; draw 
through the gills, and clean thoroughly. Place them 
in a saut6-pan with half a bottle of Burgundy, a gill 
of brown sauce, the same quantity of good stock, four 
shalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, a little thyme, one 
bay-leaf, a few trimmings of mu.shrooms, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Set this to stew gently on the fire for 
about twenty minutes; then take the fish out carefully 
and dish them up ; pass the liquor through a fine-pointed 
strainer into a small saucepan; boil it; draw it on the 
side of the stove ; if not of its proper consistency as a 
sauce, skim it and reduce it by boiling again ; then pour 
it over the carp and serve. 

495. CARP A LA PERIGUEOX. 

Prepare two or more carp as in No. 494 ; stew them in 
white wine -with salt and pepper for twenty minutes, and 
then drain and dish up. Meanwhile prepare some peri- 
gueux butter (No 167); add to it a gill of good stock or 
brown sauce, a pat of anchovy butter, and the juice of a 
lemon. Stir this well together on the fire, and pour ii 
over the fish before sending to the table. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 233 

496. FRIED CARP. 

For this mode small fish should bo used. Clean, scale, 
draw, and wipe , six carp; split down the back and open 
flat; season with salt and pepper, dip them in flour, and 
fry to a nice colour; dish them up, garnish round with 
fried parsley, and serve with quarters of lemon. 

497. CARP STEWED, ENGLISH FASHION. 

For dressing carp in this way, see the directions fcr 
stewing eel, English style (No. 466). 

498. CARP A LA SICILIENNE. 

Prepare two or three nice carp in the usual way ; put 
them in a kettle with enough " Court Bouillon " (No. 392) 
to boil for ten or twelve minutes ; put the kettle aside in 
a cool, place, and when the liquor is quite cold draw out 
the fish ; remove the liquor in order to enable the kettle 
to be cleaned ; after which, replace the fish in it with the 
" Court Bouillon ; " set this to warm gently, without boiling, 
for twenty minutes ; then drain and dish up the fish ; pour 
some Sicilian sauce (No. 211) over, and serve. 

499. TENCH. 

This fish, being somewhat similar to the carp, may be 
dressed in the various modes in which that fish js pre- 
pared. Both kinds make excellent matelotte, and it is not 
unusual to prepare such a dish with carp, tench, and eel, 
all mixed and stewed together. 



234 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY: 



Eemarks on Barbel. 

The barbel may be considered to be a water-pig, as its 
habits and mode of living in the water are very much like 
those ol a pig on land. It cannot be classed as good food, 
as its eggs are said to be poisonous and to produce the 
same symptoms as bella-donna. 

500. BARBEL BROILED. MAflRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Cleanse, scale, and wipe the inside of two barbel very 
carefully ; score them three or four times on each side ; 
steep for half an hour in four tablespoonfuls of olive- 
oil ; season with salt and pepper ; and twenty minutes 
before serving broil them on a moderate fire for eight or 
ten minutes each side ; dish up on a hot dish, and serve 
with some maitre 'd'h6tel butter (No. 226) in the usual 
way. 

Barbel can also be fried as well as baked, and served 
with either Sharp or Ravigote sauce. 



CHAPTER IX. 

REMARKS ON BEEP. 

There is a prevailing idea in England that beef should be 
eaten either grilled or roasted ; this is a great mistake, as 
there are many cuts and different parts, as described at the 
beginning of this work, which, could not with credit to the 
cook be prepared in those ways. I wHI'tfrerefore give the 
different modes I consider best suited for each part. 

501. ROUND OF BEEF BOILED ENGLISH FASHION. 

Procure a piece of pickled round or silver-side of beef, 
weighing about eight pounds. Put this, after having washed 
it, into a pot with enough cold water to cover it well. Boil 
it ; skim the scum as it rises to the surface j then drop 
in three or four whole carrots, two large onions with two 
cloves stuck in each, and, if handy, two heads of celery; 
let the pot simmer by the side of the stove for two hours, 
and add four whole turnips. Let the simmering be con- 
tinued for another hour, then add the quarters of a small 
cabbage ; boil gently again for an hour — making in all four 
hours' boiling ; after which, strain the beef, and dress it on 
a large hot dish, with the cooked vegetables as a garnish, 
alternately placed with half a dozen small suet dumplings, 
and serve. 

502. BRISKET OF BEEF-ECARLATE. 
Briskets, like rounds of beef, are generally obtained from 
the butcher, all ready pickled, but that is not the proper way 

=35 



236 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of salting or curing them : this must be efEected in the follow- 
ing manner : — Mix well together in a pan a brine composed 
of six pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of salt- 
petre, half a pound of moist sugar, two bruised bay-leaves, 
half a'^Qaspoonful of thyme, and same quantity of winter- 
savory and sweet marjoram, also three blades of mace and 
twelve cloves. Take a brisket of beef well covered with 
fat, bone it ; \ise the bones for the stock. Rub the brisket 
well with the|mixture for three or four minutes each day 
for five days /in succession, taking care, in laying it on 
the brine ii^t a cool place, that it should rest on the 
opposite side each day ; then simply turn it over once 
a day for thV succeeding five days, making altogether 
ten days for salting the piece of brisket — if to be eaten 

, hot ; but if intended to be pressed and eaten cold (which 
is the usual manner), it should remain in the mixture 
at least five days longer, in order that the flavour of 
the herbs and spices should be sufficiently absorbed. 
This mode of salting is equally applicable to every other 
kind of meat. The brisket of beef being thus ready for 
cooking, place it in a pan with plenty of cold water and 
the same quantity of vegetables as in the foregoing instruc- 
tions. Boil, and skim, with the same care, for about four 

A or five hours, according to the size of the brisket. When 
cooked, drain, and dress in the same manner as the 

'round of beef, with the vegetables as a garnish, if to be 
eaten hot ; or place in a perforated zinc box, made for 
that purpose, in a cool place. Lay on the meat a piece of 
board made to fit in the box, and put on this all the 
weights and stones you can get, in order to press the 
brisket well ; leave it thus for at least twelve hours, when 
the weights can be removed, the piece of meat trimmed 
and glazed (No. 362) ; then dress it in a cold dish with a 
few sprigs of parsley and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 237 

Note. — All the vegetables should, be put in at the same 
time when the brisket is meant for pressing. 

603. BRAIZED BEEF, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Take a piece of top-side of beef, trim it nicely, cut some 
fat bacon into eight shreds of about four inches long by a 
quarter of an inch square, interlard the piece of beef with 
these by inserting each slice into a large larding-needle, 
then fasten the beef round with a piece of string so as 
to secure its shape. Put the pieces of trimmings into a 
braizing-pan with a few broken bones, if any ; lay the piece 
of beef on these and garnish with two onions each stuck 
with two cloves, two heads of celery, two'carrots, a "bouquet 
gami," and one blade of mace. Moisten with two quarts of 
good stock and one gill of brandy. Set the beef to simmer 
very gently for about four hours, taking care to often baste 
and turn it over in its gravy, in order to glaze it. Mean- 
while glaze separately twenty-four small onions (No. 280) 
and two cabbages (No. 295). When the beef is done, drain 
it, remove the string, dish it up, make a border with the 
glazed onions and cabbages, or any other glazed vegetables 
that may be preferred ; as well as mashed potatoes, cro- 
quettes, or mushrooms stewed in the glaze, and stuffed 
tomatoes, &c. &c. Skim the fat off the glaze, strain it over 
the lot, and serve. 

This way of braizing meat can be applied to any cut or 
part of the animal, viz. , ribs, rump, brisket, round or thick 
ilank, as well as fillet of beef. The process of larding can 
also be omitted, not only as a matter of economy, but of 
taste as well. 

504. BRAIZED BEEF MILANAISE. 
Procure about ten pounds of thick flank, or a nice cut of 
round of beef of a similar weight j trim, interlard, and bind 



238 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it with string, as described in No. 503 ; boil it in the stock- 
pot for a couple of hours ; after which, transfer the beef 
into a braizing-pan on a drainer. Moisten with half a bottle 
of white wine and one quart. of good broth; add the same 
quantity of vegetables and " bouquet garni " as in the 
previous number. Set this to simmer very slowly for two 
hours, basting occasionally with its liquor in order to glaze 
the meat. When. the beef is cooked take it out of the pan, 
drain it, remove the string, and keep it hot; strain the 
gravy through a fine strainer into a stewpan, skim off the 
fat, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce ; set it to the boil, 
skim and reduce it a little. Meanwhile have one pound of 
macaroni cooked in the usual way, and drained, in a stew- 
pan ; season with mignonette pepper and grated nutmeg ; 
put in a gill of the reduced sauce together with two ounces 
of grated parmesan cheese and an ounce of butter; toss 
the macaroni up, so as to mix it well with the sauce and 
cheese ; then dress the meat on a dish, form a border round 
it with the macaroni, pour the remainder of the glaze sauce 
over, and serve. 



505. BRAIZED BEEF NAPOLITAINE, 

Prepare a top-side piece of beef weighing about ten 
pounds in the same way as for beef, citizen style. Put it 
in a braizing-pan, with the same kinds and quantity of 
vegetables and "bouquet garni," moisten with a quart of 
good stock and half a bottle of red wine (not port) ; let this 
simmer on a slow fire for three and a half hours, frequently 
basting the meat with its liquor ; then put the meat on a 
dish, strain the liquor through a fine strainer, skim the fat, 
put the gravy back again in the braizing-pan with the meat, 
add half a pound of well washed and picked currants, and 
simmer for another half -hour. See that the meat is nicely 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 239 

glazed ; after which, dress it on a dish, skim the fat from 
the glaze again, before pouring it over the meat, and serve. 



506. BEEF A LA MODE. 

A la mode beef is a popular and favourite dish in 
domestic cookery. Although it differs but slightly from 
braized beef, its success depends entirely (as the latter) 
on its proper cooking, which must be very slow. If too 
quickly cooked it will produce an insipid and white gravy, 
instead of the proper savoury and nourishing substance. 
In colour it should be of a dark red. Take about eight 
pounds of nicely trimmed thick flank of beef, lard this, in 
the direction of the grain, with half a pound of fat bacon, 
cut into strips half an inch thick, which must have been 
previously sprinkled with pepper; then fasten it round 
with a string, put it in a stewpan with three-quarters 
of a bottle of French white wine, one gill of brandy, two 
quarts of stock, four calf's feet, previously blanched and 
boned, and about two ounces of bacon-rind ; season with 
salt and pepper, boil it, and skim ; then add four large 
carrots, two onions, six cloves, a " bouquet garni," and two 
heads of celery ; put it to simmer, very gently, by the side 
of the stove for at lea.st five hours, with the stewpan well 
covered. When the beef is done take it out, as well as 
the calf's feet and carrots. Keep these hot by the side 
of the stove. Meanwhile strain the gravy through a 
pointed strainer into a small saucepan, remove the fat 
carefully, reduce the gravy one-fourth by quick boiling, 
untie the string, dish the beef up with the calf's feet, 
each cut into six pieces, around it, garnish with the carrots, 
shaped into corks, and a dozen glazed onions (No. 280). 
Pour the gravy over the lot ; if too much, save it for 
another time. 



240 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Note. — A clove of garlic is very often inserted into the 
luoat and gives it a nice flavour, although this is a matter 
of taste and not essential. Meat can be braized without 
the help of wine, but of course the savoury taste will not 
be the same. 

A la mode beef is also often served as a cold dish for 
luncheons; in that case it would have to be cooked the 
day before it is wanted, and the whole of it turned into ■ 
a basin, which will set to a firm jelly. When ready to 
serve, simply turn it out of the basin on to a dish. 

507. PORTER-HOUSE STEAK. 

Cut two slices, one and a half inches thick, off the 
thickest part of a sirloin of beef, with the fillet or undercut 
attached to the bone in the same manner as loin-mutton- 
chops. Flatten these a little with the cutlet-bat, oil, and 
pepper them slightly ; then grill them on a clear fire for 
about fifteen to eighteen minutes, taking care to turn 
them, often as necessary, to prevent burning. Meantime 
put two ounces of butter in a saut6-pan, cut crossways six 
nice ripe tomatoes, lay these in the saute-pan with the skin 
downwards, and fry them thus for five minutes without 
turning. When the steaks are cooked, sprinkle each side 
with salt, dish them up, and garnish with the tomato 
halves in the same way as they were cooked. Sprinkle 
each with a little' salt and pepper before serving. Tomatoes 
cut in two are also grilled, but must always be kept with 
the skin under, otherwise they will lose part of their seed 
and liquor. 

Porter- House steaks are also served with grilled mush- 
rooms; in that case take a dozen large and fresh mush- 
rooms, clean and peel them well, broil them over a not 
too fierce fire for four minutes, sprinkle salt and pepper 
over them, and dress with the steaks. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 241 



Remarks on Roast Beef and Roasting in General. 

I have purposely abstained from mentioning the rump, 
sirloin, and ribs of beef in my braizing-recipes, because I 
think the former should only be used as steaks, and the 
two latter for roasting, as " the roast beef of Old England " 
is not likely to die out for a while, notwithstanding all the 
new recipes that may be introduced. I therefore contend 
that the best cuts of the animal should be reserved for that 
purpose, and not employed in any other way. 

The roasting of meat is done, according to the kitchen 
arrangements, in three different ways, either by putting 
the meat on a baking-dish in the oven with a little suet 
over it, or by hanging the meat on a hook in a gas roasting- 
closet ; but the best mode is by fixing the joint on a spit, if 
there is an open fire-range. This, however, requires care 
and attention, as the fire must be constantly replenished 
with fuel (wood being the best for roasting) and never 
allowed to get low ; it is also necessary to avoid draughts 
between the screen and fire, as in that case a joint will 
take much longer to cook. The fire should also be 
thoroughly bright before putting the meat to roast. 

When roasting before a fire, half a pint of broth should 
be put in the dripping-pan for basting the joint with, at 
least five times during the process of cooking. This applies 
also to game as well as poultry. 

The time required for cooking joints will be modified by 
circumstances, as there are different qualities and natures 
of meat which cook more or less rapidly. Always test the 
joint by pressing the thickest parts with the finger before 
removing it from the fire ; if these give way to the pres- 
sure the cooking will be perfect, but if there is a certain 
amount of resistance the meat is not yet cooked. 

Q 



242 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

The following is the approximate time required for roast- 
ing the different joints, poultry, and game : — 

For a joint of beef weighing ten pounds, two hours and 

a quarter, 
a leg of mutton weighing nine pounds, one hour and 

three-quarters, 
a loin or neck of veal weighing five pounds, one 

hour and twenty minutes. 
a leg of pork weighing ten pounds, three hours, 
a loin of pork weighing six pounds, one hour and 

forty minutes, 
a goose weighing seven pounds, one hour and forty 

minutes, 
a turkey weighing ten pounds, two hours, 
a fowl weighing about three pounds, thirty-five 

minutes, 
a pigeon, a quarter o£ an hour. 
a duck, twenty minutes, 
larks, eight minutes. 

partridges or woodcocks, twenty minutes, 
a pheasant, thirty-five minutes. 
a wild-duck, a quarter of an liour. 
a leveret, half an hour, 
a rabbit, twenty minutes, 
a hare's back, thirty- five minutes. 
Meat for roasting requires no flavouring — the main point 
is to cook it when neither too fresh nor too high. 

508. FILLET OF BEEF, INDIAN STYLE. 

Get a fillet of beef weighing about eight pounds ; trim 
and cut off the sinewy skin which covers it with a thinly 
bladed knife ; lard in the usual way with thin strips of 
fat bacon. Put the trimmings from the fillet in an oblong 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 243 

or braizing-pan on the drainer ; lay the fillet on them ; add 
two onions with two cloves stuck in each, a shred carrot, 
one head of celery, and a " bouquet garni ; " moisten with 
half a bottle of sherry and one pint of good stock ; season 
with a tablespoonful of salt. Cover the pan and set it to 
simmer very slowly for about two hours, basting the meat 
frequently with its liquor while simmering. Meanwhile 
prepare a pint of Indian sauce (No. 185) in a stewpan 
apart ; have also ready, and cold, half a pound of risotto 
(No. 108) which place on a slab or board, and make a hole 
in the centre ; fill this hole with about a quarter of a pound 
of Italian salpicon (No. 307), to which a pinch of cayenne 
has been added. Mix these well together with a table- 
spoon, then form the risotto into croquets, or the shape 
of corks ; pass them through the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten, and roll in bread-crumbs ; then fry in the fat in 
the usual way to a nice colour. 

When the fillet is cooked dress it on a hot dish, garnish 
with the croquets, strain and skim off the fat from the 
remainder of the liquor in which the fillet was cooked, pour 
it over the fillet, and serve with the Indian sauce apart. 

509. FILLET OF BEEF A LA JARDINI:§:RE. 

Prepare and cook a fillet of beef in the same manner 
as the foregoing. Meanwhile prepare and cook in broth, 
with a good pinch of salt and a piece of sugar, all the 
vegetables in season that may be had^ such as carrots and 
turnips turned in small fancy shapes, French beans cut 
in diamonds, asparagus-points, buds of cauliflower, small 
Brussels sprouts, and peas. When the fillet is cooked and 
well braized dish it up, garnish with the aforesaid hot 
vegetables all nicely, but separately, intermixed round the 
meat ; strain the liquor in which the beef was cooked, and 



244 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

skim o£E tjie fat ; add a gill of brown sauce to the liquor, 
stir, and warm up ; then pour it over the fillet and serve. 

510. FILLET OF BEEF WITH OLIVES. 

Cook a fillet of beef in the same way as the fillet of beef, 
Indian style. Meanwhile bone with a pointed knife a 
pint of nice French or Italian olives, blanch these for five 
minutes in plain boiling water, and keep them hot by 
soaking in a gill of brown sauce or good gravy. When the 
fillet is cooked and nicely braized dish it up, strain, and 
skim off the fat from the Kquor ; add this to the olives, stir 
and mix well on the fire, and when hot pour it round the 
fillet before serving. 

511. FILLET OF BEEF WITH MASHED POTATOES. 

Procure a nice thick fillet of beef, trim and lard as 
for " Indian style.'' Put it in a deep earthenware dish, 
pour over it a gill of salad-oil, lay on the beef the shreds 
of an onion, with a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, and 
two good pinches of pepper; let it steep thus for at 
least three hours, turning over occasionally, so that the 
flavour of the different ingredients may be absorbed by the 
fillet. When properly steeped, shake off all the -particles 
from the meat, run lengthwise a small iron skewer 
through it, fold the fillet with a well-oiled sheet of paper 
tied with string, and fix it to the roasting-spit with strong 
string. :Put this in front of a moderate fire to roast for 
about two hours, taking care to baste it often with the oil 
in which the fillet was steeped. Half an hour before serv- 
ing^that is to say, an hour and a half after the fillet was 
first put befoJe the fire — remove the paper, so that the fillet 
may take a nice brown colour in roasting. Do not forget 
the basting. 

When the fillet is properly cooked and nicely coloured, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 245 

make a good layer of mashed potatoes (No. 231) on a hot 
dish ; place the fillet on it ; pour a little half-glaze or good 
gravy over, and serve. 

Note. — In roasting larded meat care should be taken 
that the fire be not too fierce, otherwise the lard will be 
scorched, and spoil the flavour of the joint. Fillet of beef 
roasted as above can also be served with a puree of celery 
(No. 236), pur^e of green peas (No. 232), puree of Jeru- 
salem artichokes (No. 239), or any other pur6e that may 
be fancied. 

512. FILLET OF STEAK A LA CHATEAUBRIAND. 

Cut two fillets of beef crosswise, at its thickest part, one 
and three-quarter inches thick, remove the sinewy part 
and trim them ; oil them slightly and sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper; put them on the gridiron to broil for 
about seven minutes each side. "When cooked dish them 
up, garnish with potatoes cut filbert-shape and fried in 
clarified butter. Place on each steak a piece of maitre 
d'hotel butter (No. 226) as big as a walnut, and serve. 

513. FILLETS OF BEEF MIGNONS WITH CHAM- 

PIGNONS. 

Take three pounds from the middle of a whple fillet of 
beef ; skin and trim it ; cut this in slices three-quarters 
of an inch thick, flatten them slightly with the cutlet- 
bat ; steep for three hours in a marinade composed of half 
a pint of French white wine, a gill of oil, a bay-leaf, a 
sliced onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper. 
Twenty minutes before serving melt two ounces of clarified 
butter in a saute-pan ; shake off all the particles of marinade 
from the fillets, and put; them in the saute-pan to cook for 
about ten minutes, taking care to turn them over and 
colour on both sides. Meanwhile prepare a Mushroom 
sauce (No. 197) in' a saucepan apart. When the fillets 



246 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

are cooked, drain, and dish them up in a circle, pour the 
Mushroom sauce in the centre, and serve. 

Note. — MUet of beef cut and cooked in the above style 
can also be served with Truffle sauce (No. 1 98), Financifere 
(No. 187), Tomato pur^e (No. 217), or any other Sharp 
sauce. 

514. SCOLLOPS, FILLET OF BEEF WITH CHESNUT 
PUR^E, 

Cut three pounds of fillet of beef in scollops, three inches 
wide and three-quarters of an inch thick, flatten them as in 
No. 313, and trim them to a nice shape, either round, 
triangular, or square, but of an equal size; season these 
with salt and pepper, and cook them in a saute-pan with a 
quarter of a pound of clarified butter, taking care to brown 
them on both sides as in the foregoing. Meanwhile prepare 
a pur6e of chesnuts (No. 237). "When the scollops of beef 
are properly cooked dish them up in a circle, after having 
glazed them, fill the centre with the pur^e, strain some 
good beef gravy over, and serve. 

Note. — Any purte of vegetables can be served with 
scollops cooked in the above fashion, 

515. RUMP-STEAK A LA CHASSEUR. 

Procure a slice of rump-steak weighing about three 
pounds, and cut one inch and a quarter thick. Place the 
steak flat on the table, lay your left hand slightly over it, 
whilst with the right you - insert a sharp-pointed knife in 
the centre of the outside fat, as if to slice the steak in two ; 
but the insertion must only be made within an inch all 
round from the three outside parts of the steak, so as to 
form it into the shape of a pocket. Steep the steak, thus 
trimmed, for two hours in a similar marinade to the 
foregoing. Meanwhile prepare a salpicon h, la chasseur 
(No. 3 1 2), to which add about six ounces of sausage meat 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 247 

and a couple of truffles cut in small dice, making in all 
about a pound of salpicon ; wipe the steak, put the mixture 
in the pocket with a spoon, sew the open part with a fine 
string ; flatten it gently with the hands, and place it on 
the gridiron on a good fire for about Bight minutes on each 
side. When cooked remove the string without tearing the 
meat, dish it up and serve, with a little Espagnole or half- 
glaze sauce apart. 

Note. — Steaks cut as above can be filled and ciDoked 
with other salpicons or oysters, simply blanched in boiling 
water for two minutes, drained, and freed from any particle 
of shell. 

This mode of cooking steaks has been appropriated lately 
by several cooks and amateurs, as of their own invention. 
I may, however, say that it was introduced by me at the 
St. James's Hall Restaurant either in i§7S or 1876. 

516. RUMP-STKAK. OYSTER SAUCE. 

Take a rump-steak weighing about two pounds and cut 
one inch thick j pour a tablespoonful of oil on a plate ; 
pass both sides of the steak over the oilj and broil it over 
a moderate fire for about seven minutes each side. When 
cooked sprinkle both sides with salt, dress it on a dish, 
and serve with some Oyster sauce (No. 186) in a sauce- 
boat apart. 

Note. — Eump-steak broiled as above can also be served 
plain, or with Sharp, Italian, or Tomato sauce, as well as 
with grilled or stewed mushrooms. 

517. RUMP-STEAK. ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Prepare and cook a rump-steak as in the foregoing. 
Meanwhile make some anchovy butter (No. 161), lay it 
on a hot dish ; put the steak on the butter, and serve with 
either chipped or fried potatoes. 



CHAPTER X. 
REMARKS ON VEAL. 

Veal is one of the most nutritious, palatable, and whole- 
some meats that can be cooked, besides playing a great 
part in the different culinary preparations of soups, sauces, 
and jellies ; but veal, like lamb, should never be eaten when 
over' two months old, . for the flesh gets coarse and Joses 
flavour and delicacy, as well as whiteness. The veal from 
Pontoise (France) possesses a world-wide repute for its 
quality, savour, and whiteness of flesh j but calves are never 
killed over eight weeks old in that country. 

518. VEAL, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Procure a loin. Bone it ; cut out the kidney ; trim off 
some of the encircling fat and put the kidney back in its 
place ; flatten the flap and fold it under so as to cover the 
kidney, and fillet and tie the piece of meat with string 
in order to keep it in shape. Or take a round cut from 
off a leg of veal, weighing five or six pounds ; bone it, and 
fasten it round with string. Put either in a well-buttered 
braizing-pan over the fire to brown ; when of a nice golden 
colour all round moisten with a quart of broth, add three 
whole carrots, two onions with two cloves stuck in each, 
a "bouquet garni," salt and pepper to taste, and set to 
simmer very gently for about two hours and a half, with 
the pan partly covered, not forgetting to baste often and 

turn the meat during that time. Then cover the pan; put 

248 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 2^9 

a good shovel of live-coal and embers on the lid, and let 
it simmer for half an hour, taking care meanwhile to baste 
the meat at least five times with its own gravy. When 
the meat is cooked, which can be ascertained by pricking 
it with a trussing-needle, drain it, and keep hot on a 
dish ; remove the carrots carefully by themselves — and keep 
them hot too — strain the gravy through a pointed strainer, 
skim off the fat, and reduce the gravy by quick boiling to 
a half-glaze ; add a little caramel if not sufficiently coloured. 
In the meantime cut the braized carrots into shape, dish 
them up with the beef together with a dozen small onions, 
previously glazed for that purpose ; sprinkle over the re- 
duced gravy, and serve. 

Nvte. — This mode of preparing veal is also served cold. 
In that case cook it the day before, and put in a basin 
with the strained gravy, which will set to a firm jelly ; and 
it will only have to be turned out of the basin on to a dish 
to serve. 

519. BRAIZED VEAL, ITALIAN STYLE. 

Take a round cut of the leg or a shoulder of veal, weigh- 
ing about six pounds, bone it with a sharp-pointed knife, 
and lard it in the usual way with well-seasoned strips of 
bacon, and fasten it round with string. Lay flat in a well- 
buttered stewpan half a dozen thin slices of fat bacon with 
an ounce of butter. Cut in quarters an onion, a carrot, 
and one head of celery ; spread these on the slices of bacon ; 
add a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of thyme, place on these 
the piece of larded veal seasoned with salt and pepper, 
and set it on the fire to brown all round. After having 
properly turned the meat and secured a nice even colour- 
ing, add a pint and a half of stock with half a pint of 
French white wine, then simmer it very gently, with the 
lid partly on, for about three hours, taking care, as is usual 



250 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in all braizing, to carefully baste the meat, so as to glaze 
it well. When the meat is propeily cooked, drain and 
put it on a dish to keep hot, strain the gravy in the usual 
way, and put it in a small saucepan to be reduced to a half- 
glaze, after having skimmed off the fat. Meanwhile pre- 
pare a dish either of macaroni, spaghetti, or ravioli, Italian 
style, garnish the veal with it, pour the reduced gravy over, 
and serve. 

_ 520. STEWED VEAL, COUNTRY STYLE. 

In order to study economy, this stew should be made 
with the neck, breast, and trimmings of veal cutlets, the 
two former cut two inches wide by three long. 

Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan over the fire; 
put the pieces of veal in with two bay-leaves and a few 
sprigs of thyme ; brown the veal nicely by stirring almost 
constantly ; then sprinkle two or three tablespoonfuls of 
flour over the meat ; continue stirring for three or four 
minutes longer, or till the flour is well browned ; moisten 
with half a pint of stock and a gill of white wine ; season 
with salt' and pepper ; simmer by the side of the fire for 
about an hour with the lid on, stirring the meat five or six 
times ; after which, add one pint of stock with three fresh 
tomatoes, skinned and cut in four. Boil fast on a brisk 
fire for fifteen minutes ; take the bay-leaves and thyme out ; 
add some potatoes and peas, cooked separately in broth, as 
well as a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms, properly 
trimmed, cleaned, and blanched, also in bi'oth. Mix these 
well -together on the stove till it boils, then dress it up in a 
large dish, and serve. 

521. STEWED VEAL, COUNTRY STYLE (ANOTHER). 
Prepare and stew the veal trimmings as indicated in. the 
foregoing, but half an hour before the completion of stew- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 251 

ing add to it two shred onions, half a pound of fresh 
mushrooms, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the 
juice of a lemon. Stir well, simmer for half an hour ; add 
the quantity of broth required ; boil sharp for fifteen 
minutes ; remove the aromatic herbs, and serve separately 
with a pur6e of potatoes. 

522. STEWED VEAL WITH RICE. 

Proceed for this stew as in the former, and when the 
meat is well glazed and cooked, add a quarter of a pound 
of fresh mushrooms and simmer for five or six minutes 
longer. Have a risotto (No. 109) ready j dish it up; 
dress also the stewed veal in another dish, and serve. 

523. SCOLLOPS OF VEAL FRIED. 

Cut about two pounds of -cushion* of veal into scollops 
or slices two inches wide by three long and half an inch 
thick, flatten these slightly with the cutlet-bat dipped in 
water, and roll each separately in flour. Melt four ounces 
of butter in a saut^-pan, fry the scollops in it over a brisk 
file, taking care to give them a nice golden colour on both- 
sides. When this has been obtained, sprinkle a little flour 
on each slice. Moisten with half a pint of good broth, let 
it boil for ten minutes, then add a gill of half-glaze or 
good gravy, one teaspoonful of fine herbs (No. 195), a 
quarter of a pound of cooked fresh mushrooms, and salt 
to taste. Toss the saut6-pan over the fire in order to 
warm up the contents and mix them well; dress the 
scollops in the form of a circle; add about an ounce of 
butter to the sauce ; squeeze the juice of a lemon, and stir 
by the side of the fire. Meanwhile garnish the centre of 

* Cushion of veal is a cut from the most fleshy part of the leg of veal, 
and very often called "fillet." 



252 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the dish with any puree or garnish of vegetables that may 
be preferred, or any paste, or rice. Pour the sauce over 
the scollops, and serve. 

524. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. 

The breast is generally the part of veal used for blan- 
quette. Cut three pounds of breast of veal into pieces 
between two and three inches square ; put these in a stew- 
pan with enough water to cover the meat well ; add two- 
thirds of a tablespoonf ul of salt and half a teaspoonf ul of 
pepper. Boil and skim in the usual way ; after whichj add 
two onions with two cloves stuck in each, and a double 
"bouquet garni;" simmer gently for an hour, then drain 
in a colander, but save the broth ; return the pieces of 
veal in the stewpan and keep hot by the side of the fire. 
In the meantime mix in another stewpan one ounce of 
butter, with the same quantity of flour, by stirring over the 
fire for four or five minutes, then draw it by the side of 
the stove. Moisten with all the liquor drained from the 
veal, reduce this for twenty minutes, stirring all the time 
to prevent burning ; after which, thicken with the yolks of 
three eggs, strain the sauce through a pointed strainer 
into the stewpan containing the veal, to which half a pint 
of tinned, blanched, and sliced button champignons have 
already been added. Boil it for one minute, sprinkle in 
half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; mix well; dish 
the blanquette, and serve. 

525. CUSHION OF VEAL WITH SPINACH (FRENCH 
FRICANDEAD). 

Trim a cushion of veal weighing about three pounds to 
a nice oval form and smooth surface ; lard this side rather 
closely with thin strips of fat bacon. Strew the bottom 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 253 

of a braizing-pan witli the trimmings of the veal, a small 
sliced carrot and onion, a small " bouquet garni," salt and 
pepper to taste, and then place the cushion on the top. 
Moisten with about a pint of broth ; place a buttered sheet 
of paper over the larded part of the meat ; then set it to 
simmer very slowly for one or two hours, with the lid on, 
and frequently baste it with its own liquor. When nearly 
done the lid and paper must be removed, so as to enable 
the larding to dry, although it should still be frequently 
basted with its own glaze, in order to give it a shiny 
appearance ; care, however, must be taken to prevent the 
meat from acquiring too much colour during the process. 
Meanwhile dress a pur^e of spinach (No. 236) in the centre 
of a hot dish, and with a flat strainer take the piece of veal 
out of the pan and lay it carefully on the spinach ; strain 
the half-glaze through a pointed strainer ; skim off the fat, 
pour it over the meat, and serve. 

Note. — Cushion of veal braized thus can be served with 
either jardiniere, macddoine, stewed peas, a la Toulouse, 
stuffed tomatoes, white haricot beans, glazed onions, new 
carrots, or any puree of vegetables, and also with stewed 
mushrooms. 

526. SCOLLOPS OF VEAL WITH STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Cut a cushion of veal into scollop.s as for scollops fried ; 
put them in a saut6-pan with sufficient broth to cover them 
entirely ; season with salt and pepper, and simmer them 
gently till the scollops are done, which will be in about an 
hour. Meanwhile brown in a stewpan three spoonfuls of 
flour with an ounce of butter, by stirring for four or five 
minutes ; then moisten with half a pint of broth and a gill 
of sherry; stir and dilute this well; season with a little 
salt and pepper ; then add to the sauce one pound of well- 
cleaned fresh mushrooms ; simmer for six or eight minutes, 



2 54 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and then draw by the side of the fire. When the soollopg 
are cooked dish them up in the form of a circle and keep 
hot ; skim off the fat from the liquor in which the scollops 
were cooked ; reduce it a little over a brisk fire, then add 
the mushrooms, with a teaspoonf ul of finely chopped parsley 
and the juice of half a, lemon ; stir on the fire till it boils ; 
pour it in the centre of the dish with the scollops, and 
serve. 

Note. — Scollops cooked as above may be dressed with any 
pur^e or garnish of vegetables, as well as with macaroni, 
tagliatelli, spaghetti, or ravioli. 

527. VEAL CUTLETS WITH SORREL PUR^E. 

Saw off the chine-bone and upper end ribs of the half of 
the best-end neck of veal, leaving the cutlet bones about 
four inches long ; divide these into cutlets of an even thick- 
ness ; trim them nicely without showing the bone ; lard 
the fillet of each cutlet with thin strips of fat bacon, put 
them in a saut^-pan with three ounces of clarified butter 
and fry them for four minutes only ; then add a pint of 
veal broth, half a pint of French white wine, a small shred 
carrot and onion, and salt and pepper to taste; simmer 
very gently till the cutlets are well glazed, and meanwhile 
prepare a pur^e of sorrel (No. 238). When the cutlets are 
done dress them up on a dish in the form of a circle, fill 
the centre with the sorrel, skim off the fat, strain the gravy 
over the cutlets, and serve. 

528. VEAL CUTLETS WITH HAM. 

Cut and trim six veal cutlets as described in the previous 
number ; put them in a sautd-pan with two or three ounces 
of clarified butter to colour them; alter which, pour off the 
butter, and add one pint of veal stock with half a pint of 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 255 

Espagnole sauce, and simmer till the cutlets are done. 
Meanwhile cut six lean slices of ham, a quarter of an inch 
thick and trim them to the shape of the cutlets; fry 
for' five minutes in the clarified butter which was saved 
from the cutlet-pan. When the cutlets are done drain 
and dish up in a circle with a slice of ham between each. 
Skim the fat off the gravy, strain it through a small taamy 
over the cutlets, and serve. 

529. VEAL CUTLETS MILANAISE. 

Cut and pare away six veal cutlets as in No. 528, flatten 
slightly with the cutlet-bat dipped in water, and pass 
them through the yolks of three eggs well beaten and 
seasoned with salt ; then put them into bread-crumbs and 
fry in a saut6-pan with four ounces of clarified butler to 
a nice golden colour on both sides. Meanwhile prepare 
some macaroni Milanaise (No. 94). When the cutlets are 
ready lay the half of the macaroni over the dish, dress the 
cutlets on it in the usual form, pour the remainder of the 
macaroni in the centre, sprinkle over the cutlets the butter 
left in the pan, and serve. 

530. VEAL CUTLETS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare half a dozen veal cutlets as in the previous 
number, flatten gently with the cutlet-bat dipped in 
water, and with a sharp knife slice the fillets in two, 
without separating them at the bone. Spread on each 
a tablespoonful of salpicon h, la financi^re (No. 310), to 
which two tablespoonfuls of D'TJxelles has previously 
been added, and well mixed with the salpicon ; turn the 
slices down and flatten gently with the hands, so as to 
give the cutlets their natural shape; after which, rub 
them through breadings and ra.'spings, and fry to a nice 



2s6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

golden colour with four ounces of clarified butter. When 
cooked dress them carefully over a hot dish, and serve with 
a sauce-boat of Italian sauce (No. 204) or any other sauce 
that may be, preferred. 



531. VEAL CUTLETS EN PAPILLOTES, 

Cut, trim, and flatten the veal cutlets as in cutlets 
Milanaise, put these in a saut^-pan with two ounces of 
butter, and fry to a nice even colour for about six minutes 
on each side ; when done, drain, and put by on a plate. 
Sprinkle an ounce of flour in the saute-pan ; stir it over 
the fire for three minutiss ; add one pint -of broth, stir 
and boil for five minutes, and strain through a pointed 
gravy-strainer. Clean the saute-pan, put the sauce back 
and boil to reduce it to half the quantity, add three 
tablespoonfuls of D'tJxelles (No. 195), and reduce five 
minutes longer ; then cut for each cutlet a sheet of stiff 
white paper in the shape of a heart and large enough to 
leave a good margin round the cutlet, oil the sheets of 
paper, and lay on each side a slice of fat bacon, cut in the 
shape of the lean part of the cutlet ; spread on the bacon 
a tablespoonful of the sauce, then the cutlet, then another 
spoonful of the sauce, and lastly a slice of bacon similar 
to the first ; fold the paper over and twist the edges tightly 
under into very close folds. About fifteen minutes before 
serving, put the folded cutlets on a girdiron to broil on a 
moderate fire for six or seven minutes on each side. 

532. VEAL CUTLETS BROILED PLAIN. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as in the foregoing ; sprinkle 
some pepper on both sides, pour one tablespoonful of oil 
on a plate, pass the cutlets lightly over it, and broil them 
for ten minutes on a moderate fire. Wh^n done sprinkle 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 257 

a pinch of salt on each side, dish up the cutlets, and serve 
with any vegetables that may be preferred. 

533. VEAL CUTLETS. TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cut and pare the cutlets ; dip in melted butter ; pass 
them through bread-crumbs ; broil on a moderate fire for 
about twelve minutes, and serve with some Tomatp sauce 
(No. 217) apart. 

Note. — Veal cutlets, plain or bread-crumbed, and broiled 
as above, can be served with any Sharp sauce or maltre 
d'hotel butter, allowing generally three-parts of a gill of 
sauce and an ounce of maitre d'h6tel butter to each person. 

534. ROAST VEAL. 

The chump-end of the loin, the neck, and the loin of veal 
are generally the pieces used for roasting. Take about 
four pounds of the neck, saw off the chine-bone, chop 
between each bone, and shorten the rib-bones, roll the flap 
underneath and tie round with string; roast this before 
the fire, which must be moderate, for about an hour and 
three-quarters, basting the meat with its own gravy in the 
usual way, and five minutes before removing the joint from 
the fire sprinkle it well with salt. Strain, and skim the 
fat off the gravy, pour it over the meat and serve. 

For roast loin of veal, take about five pounds of the part 
including the kidney, saw off the chine-bone, roll the flap 
underneath so as to enclose the kidney, and fasten it with 
string. Put it on a spit to roast for at least two hours 
before a moderate fire, basting about every fifteen minutes ; 
sprinkle some salt five minutes before taking the joint 
away from the fire ; strain, and skim off the fat from the 
gravy ; dish up the meat, pour the gravy over it, and serve 
with water-cress sprinkled with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 

E 



2S8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

For roast chump of loin, bone entirely, tie with string 
to keep it in shape, and proceed in the same manner as 
previous number. 

535. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL WITH STUFFING. 
Bone completely the breast of veal ; mix one pound of 
well-seasoned veal stuffing (Nos. 270 or 270a) and a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped sage ; place this along in the 
-centre of the meat, roll up tightly, fasten round with 
string, tie a well-buttered sheet of paper round, and roast 
before a moderate fire for about an hour and three-quarters, 
taking care to baste as often as possible. Twenty minutes 
before taking away from the fire remove the paper, and 
when done untie the string.- Dish it up and serve with 
some good gravy, properly strained and skimmed. 

536. ROAST OR BAKED BREAST OF VEAL, CITIZEN 
STYLE. 

Bone, trim, and roll a breast of veal (without stufling) 
as in No. 535, tie round, and put in a stewpan with 
three ounces of butter, to fry till it is well coloured all 
over ; then add a " bouquet garni " and a quart of stock ; 
put in the oven to bake gently. Half an hour after- 
wards add two dozen new carrots nicely turned, and in 
- another half hour the same number of button onions, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and the same quantity of salt. 
Baste the meat frequently. When done take it up, un- 
fold the string, and put the veal on a baking-sheet in 
the oven again for a few minutes to glaze. Meanwhile 
continue the glazing of the carrots and onions on the fire. 
Dish up the meat, garnish round with the glazed vegetables, 
remove the "bouquet garni," skim off the fat from the 
surface of the liquor, reduce to the consistency of a half- 
glaze, pour it over the veal and vegetables, and serve. 



CHAPTER XI. 

REMARKS ON MUTTON, LAMB, AND GOAT. 

The flesh of mutton and lamb is of great benefit as a 
supply of food- to mankind, in every part of the world 
the meat of the former being used on a larger scale than 
any other kind by all classes. It can be served to great 
advantage roasted, boiled, or made into numerous dishes 
very similar to those made of veal. 

The flesh of lamb, when not too old and of good quaUty, 
is perfectly white. For taste, delicacy, and tenderness it 
is superior to all other butcher's meat ; but it should not 
be more than two months old, as its flesh then begins 
to get coarse and loses much of its delicate flavour and 
whiteness. 

The meat of the goat is coarse and tough, and possesses 
rather a strong flavour ; while that of the kid five or six 
weeks old is delicious when properly cooked. 

537. MUTTON CUTLETS A LITALIENNE. 
Select a neck of mutton that has been killed at least 
four days,_and cut off the neck or scrag-end with the 
chopper; or simply procure the best-end of -a neck of 
mutton from the butcher, saw off the breast-part so as 
to leave the cutlet-bones between three and a half and 
four inches long; saw off also the chine or spine bone, 
and then with a sharp knife cut in as many cutlets as 
there are bones from the neck of mutton thus prepared. 



"260 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Trim the cutlets by removing all the sinewy part and 
superfluous fat without damaging the fillet, and detach 
the meat about an inch from the end of each bone. 
Marinade the cutlets for a couple of hours, wipe and 
pass them over the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and 
bread them. Ten minutes before serving, fry them in a 
saute-pan with clarified butter, taking care to give them 
a nice golden colour on both sides ; after which, dish them 
up in a circle and serve with Sharp sauce (No. 205) 
apart. 

Note.^C\it\et& cooked in the above style are also served 
with a garnish in the centre, composed either of French 
beans (No. 290), asparagus-points (No. 287), stewed peas 
(No. 286), cucumber (No. 285), mac^doine (No. 281), 
pur^e of chesnuts (No. 237), or any vegetable pur6e that 
may be fancied, as well as mushrooms or truffles. 

Lamb cutlets are also cooked and served in the same 
manner. 

538. MUTTON CUTLETS MILANAISE. 
Prepare the cutlets and trim, bread-crumb, and cook 
in the same style as the foregoing. When cooked dish up 
in a circle, fill the centre with macaroni cheese (No. 88), 
to which two tablespoon fuls of Bechamel sauce should 
have been added and well mixed before serving. 

539. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA SOUBISE. 

Mutton outlets for this style should be cut thick; and 
the proper way is to cut two bones for each cutlet and 
remove one rib-bone from it; after which, trim and pare 
carefully; then lard through the lean part of each cutlet 
with eight narrow strips one inch and a quarter long of 
bacon aiid tongue, well seasoned. Put the cutlets in a 
large stewpan with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 261 

two cloves, a " bouquet garni," a bay-leaf, six pepper-corns, 
and a blade of mace ; moisten with sufficient good broth 
to cover it ; put the lid on the pan, and set the cutlets to 
braize on a slow fire for about an hour and a quarter. 
When the cutlets are done, drain, and place them on a 
large dish to get cold; lay another dish over the cutlets 
to slightly press and give them an even surface. Mean- 
while skim the fat off the gravy in which the cutlets were 
cooked, pass it through a tammy, and reduce it to a half^ 
glaze by boiling. Twenty minutes before serving return 
the cutlets into the reduced liquor, warm them up very 
, gently so as to give them time to glaze nicely by rolling 
the pan carefully. When the cutlets are properly warmed 
and glazed, dish them up in the usual way, fill in the 
centre with a pur6e a la Soubise (No. 229), pour the re- 
mainder of the liquor over the cutlets, and serve. 

Note. — Braized cutlets as above can be served with any 
garnish or pur6e of vegetables, for making which see those 
articles. 

540. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA POMPADOUR. 

Prepare, lard, and cook the number of cutlets required 
as in the foregoing, and let them get cold in their liquor. 
Make a pur^e of fresh mushrooms (No. 301), to which add 
two or three tablespoonfuls of the liquor in which the 
cutlets were braized, and dilute the pur^e with it. When 
the cutlets are quite cold, take them out and place on a 
dish, after being drained; lay flat on each a teaspoonful 
of the pur^e (keeping the remainder hot in a bain-marie). 
Let this set firm on the cutlets, and about twenty minutes 
before serving pass them twice through the yolks of eggs, 
properly beaten for that purpose, and fine bread-crumbs ; 
that is to say, to rub lightly the eggs and bread-crumbs 
over the cutlets first, and to repeat the same thing over 



262 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

again; after which, put them in a saut(i-pan with enough 
melted clarified butter to fry over a good brisk fire, 
taking care to give each a nice colour. When cooked 
dress them in the usual formj place the remainder of the 
mushroom puree in the centre; sprinkle the cutlets with 
a" little of their liquor, skimmed and reduced for the 
purpose, as in No. 539, and serve with Tomato sauce 
apart. 

541. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA JARDINIERE. 

Out, trim, and braize the cutlets as in the foregoing, 
but without larding them. Meanwhile prepare a jardiniere 
of vegetables as for fillet of beef jardinifere (No. 509). Mix 
all, the vegetables together in a stewpan with a few table- 
spoonfuls of Bechamel sauce. When the cutlets are cooked 
dish them in a circle, pour the hot jardinifere in it, sprinkle 
a little half^glaze over the cutlets, and serve. 

542, MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MAINTENON. 

Cut and trim the mutton cutlets as -for jardini&re; 
slightly flatten them with the bat, and with a sharp 
knife slice the fillets in two without separating them at 
the bone; spread inside a teaspoonful of D'TJxelles (No. 
195), refold the cutlets in their natural form, broU them 
thus four or five minutes on each side; put a thin layer 
of D'TJxelles on a dish ; lay the cutlets on it when cooked. 
Pour over some D'TJxeUes sauce (No. 195), place the dish in 
a hot oven for five minutes, and serve. 

543. MUTTON CUTLETS, MAItBE DH6tEL. 

Out and trim the cutlets as for cutlets k I'ltalienne; 
flatten them gently with the bat, oil and sprinkle with 
a little pepper, and broil over a brisk fire about- four 
minutes on each side. When done to a nicety dish up, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 263 

and put some maitre d'h6tel butter between and on each 
cutlet, serve with either fried or chipped potatoes. 

544. MUTTON CUTLETS BBEAD-CRUMBED. 

Prepare the cutlets as for maitre d'h6tel. Melt about 
one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, dip each cutlet in it, 
and pass them through the bread-crumbs. After which, 
broil on a grill, in the same way as before ; dish up, and 
serve with Tomato sauce apart. 

Note. — Cutlets either of mutton or lamb, grilled as above, 
can be served with any garnish or purde of vegetables, as 
well as with stewed or grilled mushroom?. 

545. LAMB-CHOPS. 

Lamb as well as m.utton chops are plainly grilled, and 
served with grilled tomatoes or mushrooms. 

546, BREAST OF MUTTON BROILED. 

The breast or upper ribs sawn off the neck of mutton 
when cut in cutlets can either be boiled, broiled, or used 
in stews. 

Put the mutton in a saucepan with enough water to cover 
it ; add any trimmings and bones that may be handy, 
together with a small carrot cut lengthwise in four, an 
onion with two cloves stuck in it, a "bouquet garni," and 
season with salt and pepper. Boil and skim in the usual 
way, and simmer till the bones can easily be taken out; 
drain the meat on a dish ; pull out all the bones ; sprinkle 
the meat with salt; press it under another dish with a 
weight at the top, and let it get cold. The broth in which 
the mutton was boiled must be strained and the fat skimmed 
off, when it can be used as a soup, by adding to it either 
boiled pearl barley or rice and a little. chopped parsley. 



264 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

When the meat is cold cut it in six equal parts. Melt 
an ounce of butter in a sautd-pan ;" dip the pieces of mutton 
in it ;. strew them with bread-crumbs and broil on a gridiron 
to a nice brown colour on both sides, and serve with either 
Tomato or Sharp sauce apart, and garnish with any purde 
of vegetables. 

Wote.—^'Lsimh is also cooked and served in this way. 



547. BREAST OF MUTTON, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Cut into as many pieces as there are bones the breast 
of mutton, cut off from the neck ; put these in a saut^- 
pan and fry to a nice brown ; then drain off the fat, and 
sprinkle over them three tablespoonfuls of flour. Moisten 
with half a pint of broth, add a " bouquet garni," a bay- 
leaf, and two small oniotis stuck with two cloves ; season 
with salt and pepper, and let simmer gently for three- 
quarters of an hour, taking care to often stir the contents 
with a wooden spoon. Meanwhile cut in small quarters 
four turnips ; blanch in the usual way and brown in butter 
till cooked j skim off the fat from the mutton, remove the 
" bouquet-garni," bay -leaf, and onions, add the turnips, con- 
tinue simmering for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Note. — The neck-end and breast of lamb is also prepared 
and served in the same style. 



548. MINCED MUTTON. 
This mince is generally made with the remnants of cold 
mutton. Cut off all fat, skin, and gristle from the meat ; 
mince it fine, and warm it well together With some 
Italian sauce, without, however, letting it boil; after 
which, dress it on a dish with poached eggs and large 
croutons as a garnish. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 265 

549. HARICOT MUTTON. 

Out the end part of the neck as well as the breast of 
mutton between each bonej pare away all superfluous fat, 
put the pieces of mutton into a stewpan ; fry them over 
a brisk fire to a nice brown ; then pour o£E the grease, 
sprinkle three spoonfuls of flour over the mutton, and stir 
the contents for about five minutes' over the fire ; then 
moisten it with one quart of broth, and continue stirring 
almost constantly till it boils. Prepare about half a pound 
each of carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes, such as 
half-moons, small pears, and big olives; add them to the 
mutton, as well as a dozen small onions, a " bouquet garni," 
two bay-leaves, and two pinches of mignonette pepper. 
Let the haricot mutton simmer gently by the side of the 
fire, with the lid on the pan, for about an hour and a half, 
taking care to frequently stir it ; then carefully skim off 
the fat and grease ; remove the " bouquet garni " and 
leaves ; dish it up with the vegetables ;- reduce the sauce 
(if necessary) by sharp boiling, pour it over the mutton, 
and serve. 

Note. — The above may be varied by substituting new 
potatoes, young carrots, turnips, and green peas for the 
aforesaid vegetables. 

550, BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON A LA BRETONNE. 

Take a nice fat leg of mutton weighing about eight 
pounds, saw o£f the shank-bone, and lard it with a dozen strips 
of fat bacon, cut a quarter of an inch square by six inches 
long. Place the leg in a, braizing-pan with two onions 
each stuck with two cloves, a head of celery split in half, 
two shred carrots, a spoonful of chopped parsley, a bay- 
leaf, and season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and 
two blades of mace. Moisten with a quart of good stock, 



266 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cover the meat witli a buttered- paper, and put the lid on 
the pan ; lay on it some embers ; set the pan on the fire to 
simmer very gently for about four hours, taking care to 
frequently baste the mutton with its liquor and feed the 
lid with live embers. Meanwhile cook a pint of white 
haricot beans (No. 294), strain, and put in a stewpan 
in which the following sauce has already been prepared : 
■ — Shred fine two onions ; fry them of a light colour 
in a saut^-pan with a little butter ; add a pint of brown 
sauce ; season with salt and pepper ; let it boil gently for 
fifteen minutes, then rub it through a sieve, as a pur6e. 
Having thus put the beans with the sauce, let the whole 
simmer about five minutes. When the mutton is properly 
braized take it from the braizing-pan and keep it hot ; 
strain the liquor into a small saucepan ; skim off all the fat 
and reduce it to a half-glaze; lay the haricot beans on a 
hot dish ; dress the leg of mutton on it j pour over the 
meat the half -glaze, and serve. 

Wote. — To simplify the cooking, legs of mutton may be 
braized without larding, and garnished with plain boiled 
haricot beans, moistened with gravy instead of sauce. 

Braized legs of mutton as above can be served a la 
Jardinifere, k la Soubise, and k la Mac6doine ; for which see 
the respective garnishes. 

Loins and saddles of mutton may also be braized and 
served in the same style as legs of mutton. 



551, BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Choose a nice leg of mutton ; put it in a stock-pot with 
a spoonful of salt and plenty of cold water ; boil it j remove 
the scum by skimming in the same way as broth ; then add 
a couple of carrots sliced in four, and six or eight turnips ; 
let it simmer gently by the side of the stove for not less 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 267 

than two hours, and if the leg is a big one, three hours. 
When the mutton is done take it out of the broth and 
keep it hot ; strain the broth into an earthenware pan, that 
it may be used again for boiling mutton and served as a 
mutton broth. Keep the carrots hot; mash the turnips 
with an ounce of butter, and season with salt and pepper ; 
dish up the leg of mutton, garnish it with tablespoonfuls 
of puree laid egg-shape round it, intermixed with carrots 
nicely shaped; pour a little gravy over the mutton, and 
serve with Caper sauce (No. 193) in a sauce-boat apart. 

552. ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

-Legs and saddles of mutton, to eat tender, should be hung 
in cool and draughty places at least four or five days in 
summer, and ten or twelve days in winter, before being 
cooked. Saw off the shank-bone a little below the knuckle, 
fix the meat on the spit to roast before a good fire for an 
hour and three-quarters ; pour half a pint of broth in the 
dripping-pan, and baste in the same way as for roast beef. 
Five minutes before taking the meat off the spit sprinkle 
it with salt and pepper. When done dish it up ; skim the 
fat from the gravy in the dripping-pan, and strain it through 
a pointed strainer over the meat, and serve. 

Note. — ^Two or three cloves of garlic stuck in the leg of 
mutton a day or two previous to cooking it, is according to 
taste, a great improvement. 

Shoulders, saddles, and loins of mutton, when not cut in 
chops and grilled, should also be roasted as above. 

553. EPIGRAMMES OF LAMB WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Saw off the breast of a neck of lamb in the same manner 
as for mutton cutlets ; remove the tendon of the breast 
and boil in some stock with an onion and a small 



268 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

"bouquet garni." When the lamb is done drain it, and 
take out all the bones ; keep these, as they will be required 
later on. Sprinkle some salt and a little, pepper over the 
meat ; lay it flat on a dish ; press, with another dish and a 
weight at the top of it, till cold. Then cut the breast of 
lamb in pieces the size and shape of cutlets, pass these 
through some melted butter and bread-crumb?, and through 
two or three beaten eggs and bread-crumbs again. Cut the 
bones kept for that purpose with a large knife or chopper 
to a point at one end, stick one in each cutlet, and fry them 
in hot fat to a nice golden' colour. Meanwhile have ready 
a pint of green peas, plainly boiled in salt water, drained, 
and mixed with a gill of Bechamel sauce in a stewpan, and 
as soon as the epigrammes are properly fried, dish them up 
in a circle, pour the peas in the centre, and serve. 

Note. — Epigrammes of lamb prepared and cooked as 
above can be served with asparagus-points, mao6doine, 
cucumbers, French beans, or any pur^e of vegetables. 

554 EPIGRAMMES OF LAMB, ITALIAN STYLE. 
Prepare and cook the epigrammes as in the foregoing. 
Meanwhile cook a pound of macaroni (No. 89), Italian 
style ; lay the half of it on a dish ; dress the epigrammes 
on it in the form of a circle ; fill up the centre with the 
remainder of the macaroni, and serve with some Tomato 
sauce apart. 

-555. EPIGRAMMES OF LAMB A LA PROVENQALE. 

Cut, trim, and boil the epigrammes as in the foregoing, 
then pass them lightly through some oil, instead of melted 
butter, before breading them; and fry them in two gills 
of oil, instead of fat. Meanwhile trim, clean, and fry, 
also one pound of fresh mushrooms in two gills of oil, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 269 

to which add a clove of garlic chopped to a paste aM 
a tablespoonfnl of blanched and chopped parsley. When 
the epigrammes are of a nice colour and well drained, dish 
them up in the usual way, put the mushrooms in the 
centre, and serve. 



REMARKS ON ROAST LAMB. 

Lamb is generally cut in half lengthwise, through the 
spine, and divided afterwards in quarters, viz., two hind- 
quarters, each comprising a leg and loin attached to it, 
and two fore-quarters, which include the cutlets, breast, 
shoulder, and scrag, or neck-end of the carcass. 

Each quarter may be roasted with as much advantage. 
Many even prefer the fore-quarter, or target, as it is called 
in Hampshire, to the hind -quarter; but should either of 
these joints be too large for a small family, each can be cut 
off and cooked separately, and differently, as shown in the 
foregoing. The shoulder can be roasted by itself, as well 
as the leg, and the loin likewise will make a small joint 
when roasted, as will also the best-end of the neck, or the 
whole neck and breast. It is however essential, before 
roasting either loin or neck and breast, to cut with a 
chopper between each chine-bone, as well as across the rib- 
bones, between the cutlet and breast part, so as to facilitate 
the carving of those joints when cooked. This is very 
often neglected, and gives no end of trouble to the carver 
when the joint is on the table, causing, at the same time, 
the splashing of gravy over the cloth. 

556. ROAST LAMB. 

Whatever joint may be roasted, the process is the same. 
Fold it with some of the lamb's caul which the butcher 



2 70 /^PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

generally rolls with it; put the joint to roast before an 
even fire, and baste it two or three times with some of 
its gravy. When cooked dish it up, and serve with the 
gravy free from fat, properly strained, and poured over, 
together with some Mint sauce (No. 225) in a sauce- 
boat apart. 

557. BRAIZED KID. 
Take a whole kid about five weeks old, which when 
skinned and cleansed looks very much like a skinned rabbit. 
Cut it across the spine-bone just over the kidneys, so as 
to leave these attached to the hind-part of the kid; put 
both halves in a well-buttered braizing-pan ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a piece of cinnamon about three inches 
long ; add a few slices of gammon, a " bouquet garni," and 
two bay-leaves ; moisten with a pint of broth, and let it 
simmer very gently about two hours and a half, with 
plenty of live embers on the lid, taking care, meanwhile, to 
turn over the pieces of kid and to often baste them. 
When cooked dish it up, strain the liquor, remove all 
grease, pour it over the meat, and serve. 



OHAPTEE XII. 

REMARKS ON PORK. 

The meat of the pig is rather indigestible. Nevertheless 
it occupies a very high position as a food in this as well 
as in other countries. Hippocrates, that famous anatomist, 
even considered pork to be the most nutritious of all flesh. 
Be that as it may, what should we do without pork ? 
Neither Italian nor French cooking could exist without it, 
at least, not as it ought to be. 

In Ireland, the pig is recognised as the " gentleman " 
who pays the rent. I do not think the fellow could hold 
such a financial position if he did.not possess in himself a 
superior source of income to other four-footed animals. 

I do not know if his social position is as high in England ; 
but what I do know is, that he appears, under different 
forms, on the best spread tables in the kingdom, as well as 
on the poorest. He is therefore a necessity ; consequently 
I will now proceed to introduce his gastronomic qualities 
under the best possible forms. 

558. PORK CUTLETS. GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Cut and trim the pork cutlets in the same way as veal 
or mutton cutlets ; marinade them for about an hour with 
a little oil, salt, nutmeg, and pepper, and the juice of a 
lemon all well mixed together ; grill them over a clear fire 
about seven minutes on each side j see that they are well 



272 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

done without being scorched; dish them up in the usual 
way, pour some Gherkin sauce (No. 192) in the centre of 
the dish, and serve. 

Note. — Pork cutlets plainly grilled as above can be served 
with any sharp sauce. 

559. PORK CUTLETS A LA MILANAISE. 

Proceed as in No. 558. When the cutlets have been 
properly marinaded, dry, and pass them over soine beaten 
eggs and bread-crumbs; fry them in a saute-pan with 
clarified butter, and serve with a garnish of either fresh 
mushrooms, spinach or beans, and Tomato sauce. 

Note. — Cutlets cooked as above can be served with any 
pur^e of vegetables or fried onions and a sharp sauce 
apart. 

560, PORK CUTLETS WITH STUFFING. 

Prepare and cook the pork cutlets in the same manner 
as veal cutlets h I'ltalienne (see No. 530). 

661. PORK CUTLETS WITH PUR^E OF CHESNUTS. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as described ; put them in a 
buttered saut6-pan with a shred onion, some chopped 
parsley, and a few sprigs of thyme ; fry them on a brisk 
fire for a few minutes till the cutlets are nicely coloured 
on both sides ; moisten with a little stock ; season with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and simmer gently for about 
an hour. When properly glazed, drain, and dish up 
with a puree of chesnuts (No. 237) previously prepared 
for that purpose ; skim off carefully all the fat from the 
liquor, strain the gravy through a pointed strainer over 
the cutlets, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 273 

562. PORK CUTLETS A L'INDIENNE. 

Trim and fry the cutlets as in the foregoing ; drain off 
all the fat; add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), 
and a spoonful of curry-paste or one and a half spoonfuls 
of curry powder. Cover the saut^-pan and simmer gently 
for about fifteen minutes, taking care to turn the cutlets 
over during that time ; dish them up, fill the centre with 
plain boiled rice, strain the sauce over the cutlets, and 
serve. 

563. ROAST NECK OF PORK. 

Saw off the chine-bone, and separate between the bones 
of a neck of pork with a small chopper or meat-saw. 
Prepare a stuffing for the pork, by chopping half a dozen 
sage-leaves and four onions ^..of medium size; boil the 
mixture four minutes in plain water, then drain well, and 
put it in a stewpan with a large pinch of pepper, two of 
salt, and an ounce of butter; fry this oh a slow fire for 
about ten minutes. Meanwhile score the outside part of 
the neck with a pointed knife; make an incision to place 
the stuffing ; fasten the neck with string and roast it before 
a good fire for an hour and a quarter. When well done 
remove the string, dish the meat up, poiir some good gravy 
on the dish, and serve with Apple sauce (No. 181) apart. 

564. ROAST LOIN OF PORK. 

Trim, score, and separate the bones of a loin of pork, as 
previously described for the neck ; make an incision in the 
upper part of the loin, to receive some pork stuffing, made 
as in the foregoing; tie the part round with string, and 
roast the meat before a brisk fire, for about an hour and 
a half. When well done remove the string, dish up the 
joint with some nice brown gravy, and serve with Apple 
sauce apart. 



274 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

565. ROAST LEG OF PORK. 

Saw off the shank-bone of a fresh leg of pork ; make 
a large incision below the knupkle, between the rind and 
meat, for the purpose of receiving the stuffing of sage and 
onions, previously made as for roast neck of pork. Secure 
this by sewing it up with, small twine; score with a 
pointed knife the skin in parallel lines a quarter of an 
inch apart, by holding the leg firmly with the left hand. 
Then roast it before a good fire for about two hours and a 
half. When done remove the tw;ine, dish the leg up with 
some rich gravy, and serve with Apple sauce apart. 

566. BOILED LEG OF PORK. 

Saw off the shank-bone of a salted leg of pork, put it 
in a large saucepan with four carrots, as many parsnips, 
and an onion stuck with three cloves. Fill the pan nearly 
full of cold water, and boil it gently for about three hours, 
more or less, according to the size of the leg. When the 
pork is done, drain, and dish it up with the parsnips 
and carrots alternately placed, as a garnish. Pour some 
plain gravy under, and serve with peas-pudding made as 
follows: — Drain a pint of yellow split-peas soaked over- 
night in cold water; tie them loosely in a pudding-cloth 
and boil with the pork for aboiit three hours ; turn them out 
of the cloth ; pound in a mortar and rub the . compound 
through a fine wire sieve, moistening at times with a little 
of the pork liquor, to help the puree passing; then put 
it in a stewpan with the yolks of three eggs, an ounce 
of butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; mix well 
together with a wooden spoon, on the fire ; spread a well- 
buttered pudding-cloth; place the pur^e in the centre of 
it ; with the left hand draw the corners up, and with the 
right tie round the pudding with string ; put it again 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 275 

with the pork liquor to boil for an hour ; then carefully 
turn it out on a dish without breaking, and serve. 



567. ROAST SUCKING PIG. 

A sucking pig for roasting should not be more than 
three weeks old, for after that the meat loses delicacy. 
Have the pig properly scalded, drawn, cleansed, and the 
pettitoes cut off before leaving the pork-butcher's. Fill 
the paunch with a stuffing similar to the one for roast 
neck of pork ; to which add, after the sage and onions have 
been fried, two or three handfuls of stale bread-crumbs, an 
ounce xif butter, and the yolks of two eggs ; stir well and 
mix together over the fire for five minutes. When the 
sucking pig is well stuffed saw the paunch with twine; 
give it its usual shape, and carefully fasten it at each 
end on the spit with small iron skewers run through the 
shoulders and hips; put the spit with the meat tO roast 
before a bright fi.re for about two hours, taking care to 
often baste it with a paste-brush dipped in olive-oil, as this 
style of basting gives more crispness to the skin and an 
even and good colour to the pig. 

When the meat is done remove from the fire and the spit. 
Cut off the head and split in two; put the brains in a 
small stewpan; trim off the snout and jaws, leaving only 
the cheeks and ears, and keep these hot ; divide the meat 
of the pig straight down the back to the spine with a sharp 
knife, and finish it with a meat-saw ; place the two sides 
on a hot dish, without disturbing the stuffing, take the 
twine or thread away, place the cheeks and ears at each 
end of the dish, pour some good brown gravy under, and 
serve with the following sauce: — Add to the brains set 
apart a spoonful of. blanched chopped parsley, half a pint 
of Espagnole sauce or some good gravy, two ounces of 



276 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the juice of a lemon ; 
stir this well together over the fire, and when nearly 
boiling pour it in a sauce-boat. 

Note. — Tomato, Eobert, Ravigote, or Italian sharp sauce 
can be substituted for this sauce. 

568. ROAST SUCKING PIGf A LA PROVEN5ALE. 

Roast a quart of large chesnuts ; remove their skins 
while hot, and pound them in a mortar with three ounces 
of butter ; rub this through a wire sieve and put the pur^e 
into a stewpan with a few chives, sweet-basil, parsley, 
thyme, and a bay-leaf well chopped, a little grated nut- 
meg, salt, pepper, and the yolks of three eggs. Mis these 
well together on the fire; fill the paunch of the sucking 
pig, and roast it in the same way as in the foregoing; 
after which, dish up in the same style a,nd sei-ve with 
Tomato sauce apart. 

569. ROAST SUCKING PIG A L'lTALIENNE. 

Make a polenta (No. 100) with three-quarters of a pound 
of polenta flour and a quart of water. When nearly cooked 
add four ounces of picked sultana raisins, the same 
quantity each of grated parmesan cheese and butter, and 
a good pinch of grated nutmeg. When this has been well 
stirred and mixed together, fill with it the paunch of a 
nice sucking pig prepared as in No. 567 ; fasten it with 
twine in the usual way ; roast the pig in the same manner ; 
cut it in the same style, and serve with Italian sauce 
(No. 205) in a sauce-boat apart. 

570. BOILED HAM WITH SPINACH. 

Care must be taken when about to cook a ham, after 
having previously sawn ofi: the shank-bone and removed 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 277 

the thigk-bone, that it should have soaked in plenty of 
cold water, the length of time depending 1 entirely upon 
the age of the curing of the ham. Properly seasoned home- 
cured hams should be soaked for at least twenty-four hours ; 
foreign hams require to be soaked even longer, varying 
from twenty-four hours to four days and nights. Care, 
however, should be taken that the water is changed every 
morning and night. English hams easily yielding to the 
pressure of the hands are new, and in such cases a soak- 
ing of six hours will be quite sufficient. It is also advisable, 
when a ham is being soaked for several days, that its shiny 
surface should be scraped off every time the water is 
changed. When the ham has had its proper soaking, fold 
around it about two pounds of good hay; then put it in 
a large oval pot or stewpan, with plenty of cold water; 
cover the pan and boil and simmer very gently on a slow 
fire for about four hours, or till it is done, according to 
the size of the ham. When the ham is done take the 
pan to a cool place, leaving it to soak in the hay liquor 
for about three-quarters of an hour, by which means it will 
retain the whole of its moisture ; if taken out of the pan 
to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham, having 
thus partially cooled, must be taken out, put on a dish, 
and trimmed. Divest it of the rind to within four inches 
from the knuckle-bone, then with a sharp knife trim the 
part of rind left, in the shape of either leaves, palms, squares, 
or ovals, arranged in a fan-like form. Trim the fat of the 
ham smooth, without however removing more of it than is 
actually necessary to give a neat appearance ; after which, 
put it on a baking-sheet in the hot oven, for ten or twelve 
minutes, then wipe the surface with a clean cloth, glaze 
with a brush, and return it to the hot oven for about five 
minutes. Meanwhile have some spinach ready on the fire ; 
dish up the ham and garnish with well-dressed spinach, 



278 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

placed round it in tablespoonfuls, and serve with Madeira 
sauce made as follows : — Put half a pint of Madeira or 
sherry in a stewpan, with a little meat-glaze and a small 
pinch of mignonette pepper. Boil on a brisk fire for five 
minutes j add a pint of Espagnole sauce, and continue 
reducing it till the sauce has reached a proper consistency 
or coats the spoon ; then strain through a pointed strainer 
into the sauce-boat. 

Note. — I strongly advocate the use of hay when boiling 
hams, as the flavour thereby imparted is superior to all 
other ingredients or more expensive vegetables. 

571, BRAIZED HAM WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Follow the directions given in the foregoing as to the 
trimming and soaking of the ham ; boil it in water without 
hay for an hour ; strain and wash it clean, and wipe the 
pan ; replace the ham in it with two carrots, two onions, 
a head of celery, a " bouquet garni," two blades of mace, 
and four cloves. Moisten with sufficient ordinary stock to 
float the ham, and simmer very gently on a slow fire for 
about four hours, taking care not to allow it to boil but 
merely simmer, in order to obtain tenderness and mellow- 
ness. When done remove the pan with the ham to a 
cool place, leaving it, as in the foregoing, to cool in 
its liquor. When nearly cold take it out of the pan and 
trim it as described ; then put it back into the pan with 
its own stock, and warm it gently, without boiling, over a 
slow fire. When warmed through, place the ham on a 
baking-dish in the oven for a few minutes to dry the 
surface ; glaze and dish it up ; garnish round with stewed 
peas (No. 286) j pour some bright Espagnole sauce over 
the peas, and serve. 

Note. — Hams boiled or braized as in Nos. 570 and 571 
can also be dressed with jardinifere, French, broad, or hari- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 279 

cot beans, green peas, new carrots, Brussels sprouts, and 
mac6doine. 



572. BAKED HAM, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Put a ham that has been only trimmed and soaked, as 
previously described, in a large oval pan with plenty of 
cold water; boil, and Jet it simmer very gently for an 
hour; take the pan with the ham in it, away from the 
fire to get cold. Meanwhile mix to rather a thick paste, 
one pound and a half of flour with plain water. When 
the ham is cold take it out of the pan ; drain it ; remove 
the whole rind and trim off the fat ; then wrap up the 
ham closely with the paste; fold this with a buttered 
sheet of paper ; fasten it on the spit, and roast before a 
moderate fire for some three hours, taking care meanwhile, 
to often baste the paper with any sort of fat. Then take 
the spit away from the fire, remove the paper carefully 
from the paste, without breaking the latter ; cut a small 
round hole in the centre of the paste, into which introduce, 
little by little, half a bottle of Madeira or Marsala wine ; 
stop up the hole with fresh paste; fold the ham again, 
with a buttered sheet of paper, and roast for half an 
hour longer. Then take it away from the fire, place on 
a dish, remove the paper and paste from around, and 
serve with Madeira sauce (see Boiled Ham and Spinach) 
apart, together with a dish either of cauliflowers, haricot 
or French beans, green peas, or carrots, cooked in salt 
water. 



Remarks on Boar. 

The boar is a pig in a wild state, and its flesh although 
tough is similar to pork, except the head, which is the 



28o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

most delicate part. All other parts of the animal are 
cooked in the same manner as pork. 

573. BOAR CUTLETS A LA SARDE. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as described for pork outlets, 
and marinade them for twenty-four hours. Half an hour 
before serving, drain and wipe the cutlets dry, and fry 
them in a sautd-pan, with butter, on a brisk fire, for eight 
minutes. When done drain the butter from the pan, 
moisten well with Mustard sauce (No. 223), and season 
with salt and pepper. Let the cutlets simmer in this 
three minutes on each side, and then dish them up, pour 
the sauce over them, and serve with a garnish of potato 
pur^e. 

574. BOAR CUTLETS, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Cut, trim, and marinade the cutlets for two or three 
days. Wipe them dry, pass them through clarified butter 
and bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear and brisk 
fire for four minutes each side ; sprinkle some salt over 
, each cutlet ; dish up with a garnish of fresh mushrooms, 
either stewed or grilled, and serve with Gooseberry sauce 
(No. 180) apart. 

575. BOAR CUTLETS A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Out and trim the cutlets and fry them in a saut^-pan 
■with clarified butter over a brisk fire ; season with salt and 
pepper to taste, and when they are of a nice amber colour 
dish them up nicely in a circular form, add to the gravy 
in which the cutlets were cooked a glass of white wine, 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 1 5 1 ), a teaspoonful each 
of blanched chopped parsley and fennel ; reduce the sauce 
on a brisk fire for about five minutes ; pour it over the 
cutlets, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 2S1 

Boar's legs are cooked in the same style as legs of pork, 
but whea about to be marinaded, add a gill of vinegar to 
the marinade. 



576. BOAR'S HEAD STUFFED. 

Singe and clean the head most carefully, and bone it, 
beginning under the throat, taking care not to cut the 
skin on the top when the knife passes over the bony part 
of the head ; remove all the fatty and sinewy parts from 
inside the head, and spread it out on a large dish and rub 
it well with a mixture of four pounds of salt, four ounces 
of saltpetre, and four ounces of moist sugar. When well 
rubbed all over, let it remain spread on the mixture ; cover 
the meat with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs each of thyme, 
sweet-basil, and parsley, one dozen cloves, and the slices 
of two onions, and put the dish in a cool place. Two days 
afterwards give it a second rubbing ; spread the head on 
the opposite side ; replace the aromatic herbs on the top, 
and let it remain thus for five or six days longer, taking 
care however, to turn the head over the brine every day 
during that time. To dress the head, take it out "of the 
brine and wipe it well with a cloth before laying it on the 
table. 

Chop up two pounds ojE lean veal free from skin and 
gristle, and one pound of fat bacon ; pound these together 
in the mortar, or pass it through the sausage-machine; 
season it weU with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and put it 
on a dish apart. Cut a cured and cooked ox- tongue, two 
pounds of lean pork, two pounds of fat bacon, or the same 
quantity of calf's udder boiled in broth, and two pounds 
of peeled trufSes, all cut in irregular shapes, but not larger 
than inch dice ; mix them, and then with the pounded meat 
make a layer on the inside of the head about an inch thick j 



282 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

put a layer of the mixed dice of tongue &c. over this, with 
a few pistachio kernels, the skin of which must have been 
previously removed by scalding ; cover these with a layer 
of meat, and proceed with the dice and pistachios alter- 
nately till the whole mixture is used. When the head is 
sufficiently filled, the two sides should be turned over and 
sewn up with a small trussing-needle and twine, so as to 
thoroughly secure the stuffing. The head must be wrapped 
in a strong and well-spread buttered cloth and bound round 
very tightly with tape an inch and a half wide, so as to 
preserve its original form. Place it in a large pan with 
any game carcasses or trimmings of meat there may be 
at hand, and four cow-heels, also a " bouquet garni," four 
carrots, four onions, with a clove stuck in each, a little 
ginger, salt, and pepper, a bottle of white wine, a gill of 
brandy, and as much stock as will be required to cover the 
head well ; then boil it, and simmer gently, with the lid on, 
for at least five hours ; after which ascertain if it is properly 
done by inserting a trussing-needle. If the needle does 
not go in easily, continue the simmering for a quarter or 
half an hour longer. Then remove the pan, and leave 
the head to cool in its own liquor. Before the broth is 
cold however, the head must be taken out. See if it has 
shrunk in the cloth ; if so it must be carefully tightened 
so as preserve its shape, and then put back into its broth 
to complete the cooling. When quite cold take the head 
out of the pan and put it in the oven for a minute or two, 
after having untied and removed the cloth; wipe off the 
fat from the surface with a clean cloth ; trim the back part 
of the head ; see that the ears have their proper form, and 
if not use some small wooden skewers, and hide these with 
a mixture of lard and mutton suet. Glaze the head with 
a dark-coloured glaze made for that purpose ; decorate the 
snout with a little piping ; place modelled tusks and glass 



"PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 283 

eyes to complete the dressing ; then dish up, and ornament 
with aspic jelly. 

Note. — Hog's-head is also stuffed as above ; but for this 
purpose the hejid should be cut off deep in the shoulders 
before the pig is scalded, and then the bristles singed with 
lighted straw so as to have all the appearance of a wild 
boar's head. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

REMARKS ON VENISON. 

The flesh of that ruminant and light-footed mammalian 
animal, the roebuck or deer, is both delicate and tasty, but 
must be hung in a draughty place for at least a fortnight 
before it is fit for the table. Those living in wild and 
mountainous parts are the best, and the pale-brown,, 
yellow-colour breed is superior to the red one for cooking 
purposes. 

577. ROEBUCK CUTLETS A LA CHASSEUR. 

Roebuck cutlets should be cut in the same style as 
mutton cutlets, and after being trimmed, should be fried 
with clarified butter on a brisk fire and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Meanwhile have ready in a stewpan on the 
fire, some game essence (No. 172), to which add and. warm 
up as many slices of cooked pickled ox -tongue as there are 
cutlets ; dish up the cutlets alternately with the slices of 
tongue, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

578. ROEBUCK CUTLETS A LA SURPRISE. 

Prepare and trim the cutlets of a well-hung neck of 
roebuck ; marinade them as mutton cutlets for two hoiu's, 
and drain, flour, and fry them with butter on a brisk fire 
for two or three minutes on each side. Meanwhile have 
ready and cold a stufiing composed as follows : — Pound in 

a mortar a little cooked veal and ham free from skin and 

284 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 285 

gristle, season with salt, pepper, a good pinch of aromatic 
herbs, and a gill of rum, mix with the brains of the 
roebuck cooked in good broth and cut in very small dice, 
after having been previously washed and soaked in water 
in the usual way. Cover or surround both sides of the 
cutlets with this forcemeat, then pass thein through bread- 
crumbs, beaten yolks of eggs, and bread-crumbs again ; fry 
them with clarified butter in a saut(5-pan, and serve with 
Supreme sauce (No. 188) apart. 

579. ROEBUCK CHOPS, GRILLED. 

Cut and trim the chops of roebuck in the same manner 
as mutton chops, flatten them slightly with the cutlet- 
bat, broil over a moderate fire, turning them over every 
two or three minutes till done ; then sprinkle each with 
salt and pepper ; dish them up, taking care not to spill the 
gravy that may be on their surface ; pour some good brown 
gravy under, and serve with some currant jelly apart. 

680. BREAST OF ROEBUCK A LA LYONNAISE. 

Cook the breast of a roebuck in good broth, to which 
a glass of white wine and a " bouquet garni " have been 
added; when the meat is well done, drain, bone, press 
between two dishes, and let it get cold. Meanwhile skim 
off the fat and strain the broth in which the breast has 
boiled ; return it to the stewpan and reduce by one-third, 
over a brisk fire; then add one pound of nice chesnuts, 
previously peeled and blanched, so as to clean them of 
their second skin; continue the boiling till the chesnuts 
are well done and nicely glazed. When the meat is cold, 
cut it in pieces two inches wide ; squeeze the juice of two 
lemons and sprinkle some pepper and grated nutmeg over 
them; dip each piece in some clarified butter and bread- 



286 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

crumbs, and broil them for a few minutes over a clear fire. 
When nicely browned dish them up in a circle, garnish the 
centre with the glazed chesnuts, and serve with the re- 
mainder of the glaze apart. 



581. HARICOT OF ROEBUCK. 

Cut the scrag-end of the neck and breast of venison 
between each bone, put them in a saute-pan, and fry to 
a nice brown ; drain off all the fat, and sprinkle over them 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Continue frying them for 
three or four minutes longer; after which, moisten with 
half a bottle of claret and a quart of broth ; add a " bouquet 
garni," two large carrots, and three turnips cut into fancy 
shapes, and a dozen small button onions ; set the pan over 
the fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon till it 
boils, then let it simmer gently for about an hour and a 
half. When the meat and vegetables are cooked, take 
them out of the sautd-pan with a large perforated spoon, 
and put them into another stewpan on the fire with half a 
pint of its liquor, free from fat, to keep it hot. Skim off 
all the grease from the remainder of the liquor, reduce it 
on a brisk fire to a half-glaze, strain it through a pointed 
strainer over the meat and vegetables, season with salt and 
pepper, simmer for five minutes, dish up and serve. 

582. ROEBUCK FRY. 

Clean and cut the fry of a roebuck into small scollops, 
season these with salt and pepper, and roll them well over 
the flour j then fry them to a nice brown in a saute-pan 
with some clarified butter. When done, dish up with fried 
parsley, and serve with sharp Italian sauce (No. 205) 
apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 287 

583. ROEBUCK'S BRAINS. 

These brains are prepared, cooked, and fried in the same 
style as sheep's or calf's brains. 

584. JUGGED VENISON. 

Cut in three-inch pieces either shoulder or breast of 
venison ; fry these to a nice brown in a stewpan with some 
fat bacon that has been at least four days in brine ; drain 
off the fat ; sprinkle three tablespoonfuls of flour over the 
venison ; fry it, and toss the stewpan for three minutes 
longer; moisten with a bottle of claret and a quart of 
broth; season with salt and pepper; add a "bouquet 
garni," and set the pan on the fire, stirring very frequently 
until it boils; then simmer gently. Meanwhile fry in 
butter for five minutes, two dozen sniall button onions, 
and when the venison has boiled for half an hour add to it 
the onions and a pint of button champignons; continue 
the simmering till the meat is done and tender, which will 
take about two hours, then throw the "bouquet garni" 
away ; skim off all scum and grease from the surface, and 
pour it over a dish ; garnish round with fried crofitons cut 
triangle-shape, and serve. 

585. LOIN OR SADDLE OF ROEBUCK A L'ECOSSAISE. 
Trim nicely a well-hung loin or saddle of venison ; cover 
the fillet with thin slices of fat bacon, and place it in a 
large sautd-pan with a carrot, two onions sliced, a small 
"bouquet garni," four ounces of butter, six cloves, and 
four ounces of streaky bacon cut in narrow strips. Fry 
these on a moderate fire for an hour with the lid on, taking 
care to turn the meat and baste it often with the butter ; 
then add a pint of good brotlJ, and continue simmering 



288 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and basting the meat till done. Mean-while prepare some 
croquets of potatoes (No. 326). When the meat is ready 
dish it up, garnish with croquets of potatoes ; strain the 
liquor in which the venison was cooked into a small stew- 
pan, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), with 
two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, and salt and pepper to 
taste ; stir this on the fire for a few minutes, or till the 
jelly is well melted, pour it in a sauce-boat, and serve. 

586. HAUNCH OF ROEBUCK ROASTED, 

Saw' off the shank-bone; remove and pare away the 
sinews and dark skin of a well-seasoned haunch of venison ; 
wrap it in a buttered sheet of paper and roast it for about 
an hour before a good fire, taking care to baste it twice with a 
little butter. A quarter of an hour before the meat is ready 
remove the paper ; sprinkle some salt and pepper over it ; 
continue the roasting, and baste it once more. Then take 
the haunch away from the fire ; dish it up on a very hot 
dish, and serve with a sauce-boat of Venison sauce (No. 
196) and a dish of plain boiled French beans apart. 

Note. — Haunch df venison is generally served on. a hot- 
water dish. 

587. HAUNCH OF ROEBUCK LARDED AND ROASTED. 

Trim and saw off the, bone below the knuckle, of a haunch 
of venison; make a circular incision about six inches in 
diameter on the top of the leg with a pointed knife, and 
remove the skin, so as to leave the surface perfectly smooth 
and bare, in order to lard it rather thickly. Marinaxie it for 
two days in a liquor made as follows : — Fry in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter for five minutes a shred carrot 
and two onions, a few sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
two shalots, and two blades of mace; add a quart of 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. • 289 

boiling water, a pint of good vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of salt, and half a tablespponful of pepper. Boil and 
simmer very gently for about half an hour, and pour the 
contents into an earthenware pan or basin large enough, 
to hold the haunch, of roebuck. After having marinaded 
this two days, take the joint out of the liquor three hours 
before serving, wipe it well, and butter it with a brush 
dipped in melted butter; then cover the leg with a soft 
paste made of flour and boiling water, well beaten and 
mixed, so as not to leave any^clotting, taking care, also, 
that the paste should be hot when wrapping the leg with 
it, in order that its layer should not be more than the 
sixteenth of an inch thick ; after which, cover this with 
two well-buttered sheets of paper, and roast before a 
moderate fire for two hours and a half or more, according 
to the size of the leg ; then remove the paper and paste 
from the meat, dish it up on a hot-water dish, and serve 
with a sauce made as follows : — Boil and strain through 
a cloth the liquor ia which the haunch was marinaded ; 
brown nicely in a stewpan one ounce of flour with one 
of butter ; moisten it with the marinade, stirring the while, 
and reduce it by a quarter of its quantity over a brisk 
fire j add a gill of port wine, stir again over the fire, and 
serve. 

Note. — A haunch of venison can remain in the marinade 
in a cool place for a week or more without fear of being 
spoilt. It can also be roasted without a coat of paste 
round it, and then one hour will be sufficient to cook it. 

588. HASHED VENISON. 

The remains of the leg or haunch should be cut in thin 
slices not more than two and a half inches square. Put 
about a pint of Venison sauce (No. 196) in a stewpan on 
the fire ; when it boils add the slices of meat to it ; draw 

T 



290 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

the stewpan by the side of the- fire and cover it. Let 
the meat warm up gradually, by tossing the pan frequently, 
without, however, letting the contents boil. When propeirly 
warmed dish up in a large hot dish, with the sauce poured 
over, and serve with crottons fried in butter. 



Eemaeks on Haee. 

The flesh of this puny quadruped is always savoury, but 
varies in taste according to the nature of herbs it feeds 
on; those living on high and mountainous ground are 
superior in flavour and delicacy to those living on marshy 
land. These can be recognised by the colour of the fur ; 
the darker the back and the whiter the under part the 
better the hare. Hares should only be eaten in winter. 

589. JUGGED HARE, 

In skinning a hare, draw the blood carefully through a 
fine strainer into a basin containing an ounce of melted 
butter, and keep it covered in a cool place till wanted. 
Throw away the whole of the intestines ; wipe the hare 
with a cloth and cut it into two-and-arhalf-inch pieces ; put 
these in a jar or basin to marinade for one day if possible, 
with a bottle of claret and some aromatic herbs, such as 
bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

When wanted, brown in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
butter, four ounces of streaky bacon cut in strips, two inches 
long by half an inch thick, two onions, two medium-sized 
carrots, one head • of celery, and two leeks, all nicely shred, 
and a '' bouquet garni." When properly browned, moisten 
with a gill of good vinegar, stir, and let this dry in the 
stewpan on the fire with the vegetables. Then moisten 
with the winie in which the hare has soaked ; add the pieces 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 291 

of hare and a quart of broth ; salt and pepper to taste ; 
boil, stir occasionally, and draw by the side of the stove to 
simmer very gently, with the lid on, and stir occasionally. 
Meanwhile fry in butter two dozen button onions to a nice 
golden colour all round ; glaze them in a pint of Espagnole 
sauce or some good veal stock till well done. When the 
pieces of hare are tender pass the liquor through a fine wire 
sieve ; put the pieces of meat and bacon into a bain-marie 
to keep hot ; return the strained sauce into the stewpan 
and reduce it on a brisk fire if necessary. Draw it away 
from the fire; skim off the fat, and add gradually about 
half a pint of the sauce to the basin containing the pre- 
served blood, taking care to stir quickly in order to mix 
the two well together ; return this to the stewpan, stirring 
the while ; after which, skim off the fat from the onions, 
and pour these with their glaze into the blood sauce. Add 
also two dozen forcemeat balls, made with sausage-meat and 
the yolks of two eggs well mixed together, rolled into small 
nuts and fried to a nice brown in boiling fat. Stir the 
whole over the fire till nearly boiling, pour it over the hare, 
and keep hot till wanted ; dish up together, garnished 
with a dozen croutons. 



590. CIVET OF HARE. 

Skin, preserve the blood, clean, and cut a hare in the 
same manner as described in No. 589. Cut half a pound of 
streaky bacon into one-inch dice, fry these in a stewpan to 
a yellow colour and put them on a plate ; fry afterwards, 
in the same pan, the pieces of hare to a brown colour ; 
sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of flour, and continue 
the frying for three minutes longer, tossing, meanwhile, 
the pieces of meat in the pan. Then add the fried bacon, 
a small carrot, a " bouquet garni," an onion stuck with four 



292 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



cloves, salt and pepper to taste; moisten with a bottle of 
claret and a quart of broth ; stir till it boils, and remove 
to the side to simmer gently with the lid on. Mean- 
while fry a dozen button onions in a stewpan, with an 
ounce of butter, for five minutes, add them, with a pint 
of champignons sliced in two, to the civet, after the latter 
has simmered for at least half an hour; then continue 
gently boiling till the hare is done. When the piecesof 
hare are tender skim off all the fat from the surface ; 
remove the bouquet, large onion, and carrots; dish up 
the meat and bacon ; pour half a pint of the hare sauce 
gradually into the basin containing the blood ; stir this 
constantly ; pour it back with the civet sauce ; stir on the 
fire till it nearly boils ; pour it over the hare, garnish with 
fried crolitons, and serve. 



591. LEVERET A LA CHASSEUR. 

Cut up the leveret into small joints as follows : — Separate 
the hind-legs even with the loins, remove the shoulders, 
divide the loin into six parts, and split the head and neck 
in halves. Place all these in a saut6-pan with two ounces 
of butter, fry them of a light-brown colour over a brisk 
fire, then add a tablespoonful of chopped shalots, parsley, 
and mushrooms, well mixed together ; put the lid on and 
simmer for about ten minutes ; after which, drain off the 
grease, add a pint of good broth, half a pound of nice clean 
mushrooms, a piece of glaze as big as a walnut, a little 
grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Simmer the whole 
with the lid on for ten minutes. Squeeze the juice of half 
a lemon ; stir the contents ; dish up the pieces of hare and 
mushrooms ; pour the sauce over, and serve with a garnish 
of crofttons fried in clarified butter. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 293 

592, FILLETS OF HARE LARDED. VENISON SAUCE. 

Fillet two hares and split these into halves ; lard them 
in the same style as fillets of beef, and place them at 
the bottom of a stewpan lined with thin layers of fat 
bacon. Moisten with half a pint of Madeira and half a 
pint of good veal stock. Season with two bay-leaves, salt, 
and pepper ; put a round of buttered paper on the fillets, 
and set them in the oven to simmer for twenty-five minutes, 
taking care to often baste them with ■ their own liquor. 
When they are nearly done remove the paper in order to 
dry and glaze the larding ; drain the fillets upon a cloth ; 
dish them up in a circle ; pour in the centre some Venison 
sauce (No. 196), and serve. 

593. HARE'S BACK WITH SHARP ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Lard the back of a hare with small strips of fat bacon ; 
fiy on the spit and wrap in a buttered sheet of paper ; then 
roast it before a clear fire for twenty-five minutes ; re- 
move the paper; continue roasting and basting for five 
minutes longer, when the meat will be glazed, and then 
dish up and serve with some Italian sauce (No. 205) in a 
sauce-boat apart. 

594. ROAST HARE. 

Skin a hare (saving the blood) and clean it as previously 
described. Cross the hind-legs ; that is, pass one through 
the other; roll the flank round on each side and secure 
it with Wooden skewers. Hold the loin and legs over the 
fire for a few minutes, to set the flesh and facilitate larding. 
Lard the thick part of the legs and fillet ; put the hare on 
the spit ; cover it with buttered paper, but see that it is 
doubled over the fillets; then roast it before a good fire 
for thirty-five minutes, making the fire more brisk on the 



294 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

side of the hind-quarter. Eemove the paper j glaze the 
hare by basting it with its own gravy for two or three 
minutes longer; after which, dish.it up with the gravy. 
Meanwhile have ready a pint of Yenison sauce with which 
the blood of the hare has been dUuted and thickened as 
described for jugged hare. Pour this into a sauce-boat 
and serve with the hare. 



Eemaeks on Rabbits. 

There are two kinds of rabbits, the wild and tame, the 
former being the better of the two. Rabbits, being so very 
fertile in their progeny, are always plentiful in the market, 
and can at all times be had for a trifle ; therefore I should 
consider it a sin if we were not to prepare and serve them 
in the most advantageous and best possible manner known 
in cookery. 

The flesh of young rabbits is very tender, as well as a 
delicate and wholesome food, and makes good and nutritious 
soups. 

To farmers and others living in country places, where 
butcher's meat can only be had with difiiculty, this animal 
is a great boon, as it affords them fresh meat, a food so 
essential for health and strength to mankind. The flesh 
of tame rabbits can be made equal in taste and flavour 
to that of wild, if they are given some aromatic plants to 
eat for a few days previous to being killed. 

595. STEWED RABBIT. 

Skin, draw, and wash a rabbit clean ; cut it into two or 

three inch pieces ;, slice a quarter of a poimd of streaky 

bacon into two-inch strips half an inch thick ; fry them in 

a saut^-pan, with an ounce of butter, to a yellow colour ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 295 

remove the bacon to a plate ; fry the pieces of rabbit in 
the same pan for ten minutes ; sprinkle over them two 
tablespoonfuls of flour; continue to fry and stir on the 
fire for three minutes longer; add half a pint of good 
broth, half a pint of claret, a " bouquet garni," salt and 
pepper to taste, eighteen small button onions, previously 
fried in butter, and the strips of fried bacon. Simmer this 
with the lid on for about twenty minutes ; take out the 
"bouquet garni,'' dish up the stew, and serve with fried 
crofitons. 

596. RABBIT STEWED A LA CHASSEUR. 

Skin, draw, and wash a rabbit clean ; cut off each hind- 
leg at the joint, even with the loins ; remove the shoulders 
in the same way ; separate the neck from the head ; split 
both in halves, and divide the loin or back into six pieces. 
Put these into a saut6-pan with two ounces of clarified 
butter, and fry them over a brisk fire to a nice brown 
colour ; then sprinkle over them a tablespoonful each of 
finely- chopped shalots, parsley, and fresh mushrooms; cover 
the pan and set it over a slow fire for about ten minutes ; 
after which, sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour ; toss and 
stir over the fire for two or three minutes longer ; add a 
pint of broth, a small piece of meat-glaze, and half a 
pound of fresh mushrooms ; season with salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of grated nutmeg. Simmer this for ten minutes, 
taking care to stir it occasionally, and then squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over the contents ; stir again ; dish up 
with a garnish of croutons,, and serve. 

597, RABBIT A LA PROVENQALE. 

After having skinned and cleaned a. rabbit in the usual 
way, cut it into two-inch pieces ; put a gill of salad-oil into 
a sautd-pan with a clove of garlic chopped very fine ; fry 



296 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the pieces of rabbit with it to a nice brown colour over a 
brisk fire; drain off the fat; moisten with a pint of broth, 
half a pint of Tomato sauce, six fresh tomatoes cut in 
quarters, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir this over 
the fire and simmer gently with the lid on for twenty- 
minutes ; sprinkle a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley 
a few minutes before removing the pan from the fire; 
then dish it up, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

598. CURRIED RABBIT. 

Clean and cut a rabbit as in the foregoing ; cut in small 
dice two onions of medium size, and fry them in a saut^- 
pan over a moderate fire for five minutes, with two ounces 
of butter and an ounce of curry powder ; stir the while, 
to prevent burning. Then add the pieces of rabbit, and 
brown them round slightly ; after which, sprinkle over the 
lot three tablespoonfuls of flour. Continue the .stirring 
three minutes longer ; add a quart of good stock and salt 
and pepper ,to taste, and simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour with the lid on, when the rabbit will be done. Pour 
the contents of the saut6-pan into a colander, over a basin ; 
clean and put the pieces of rabbit into a stewpan ; strain 
the sauce from the basin through a tammy into the stewpan 
with the rabbit ; all but boil it, and then dish it up ; pour 
the sauce over, and serve with half a pound of rice, pre- 
viously boiled in plain water, properly washed afterwards 
in cold water, to remove the starch and separate the grain, 
and either warmed up by steam or spj'ead on a dish in a 
hot closet todi-y and warm. 

599. RABBIT A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

' Prepare a rabbit as before, and brown the pieces in a 
stewpan with two ounces of- butter, then drain off the 
grease, add a quart of Neapolitan sauce (No. 208), pre- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 297 

viously made for the purpose, salt and pepper to taste, and 
simmer for an hour with the lid on, taking care to give it 
an occasional stir ; then sprinkle a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped and blanched parsley, and squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over the contents ; stir the lot for half a minute ; 
dish it up ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

600. RABBIT A LA POULETTE. 

Clean and cut a rabbit in small joints, put these in a 
stewpan with a " bouquet garni," two onions each stuck 
with three cloves, one head of celery, one carrot, a gill of 
vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and enough stock or 
water to cover the whole. Simmer it for about an hour 
with the lid on. Meanwhile prepare some Poulette 
sauce (No. 179). When the meat is cooked and tender, 
strain the broth through a colander into a basin, to be 
used as soup ; put the pieces of rabbit in the stewpan 
with the Poulette sauce, toss these up over the fire for 
two minutes without boiling, then dish it up with the 
sauce poured over, and garnish with fried croutons before 
serving. 

601. ROAST RABBIT. 

Skin, draw, and clean a rabbit ; cut the fore-legs at the 
first joint, and the hind-legs above the knuckle-joint ; then 
truss it by securing the head with string passed between 
the shoulders and the hind-legs, crossed in the same style 
as for roast hare. Tie with a string a slice of fat bacon 
on the back of the rabbit ; dish it up, and serve with Hare 
sance (No. 200) apart. 

Note. — Rabbits, besides being prepared as in the fore- 
going methods, can also be dressed in almost every variety 
of form in which chickens cut in small quarters are 
prepared, and they are also made into pur6e, quenelles, 
croquets, and salpicons. 



-CHAPTER XIV. 

REMARKS ON. POULTRY. 

Although England is rich in poultry, the supply is far 
from being equal to the demand, and the quality (apart 
from Surrey chickens) is not what it should be ; hence the 
large importation of that most delicate and nutritious of 
all food from various foreign countries. 

There is no country in the world where encouragements 
for breeding poultry are more offered and better recom- 
pensed than in England, nearly every town in each 
county having its poultry-show, and valuable prizes are 
yearly given, as well as fabulous prices paid for bird 
winners, ;^ioo having been paid for a game-cock a few 
years ago at the Crystal Palace show; but the greatest 
number of exhibitors are fancy breeders, whose only aim 
is perfect plumage and colour, instead of quality and 
quantity of flesh. 

If the authorities were to award prizes to the largest 
poultry breeders of their respective counties, the effect 
would be different, and the nation as well as the farmers 
would benefit.^ 

Several kinds or species of birds are included in poultry, 
such as chickens, capons, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons, 
guinea-fowls, swans, and pearhens, and those are of different 
breeds, especially the chickens, pigeons, and ducks. Dork- 
ing and game fowls are considered the best for the table ; 
the former are recognised by their double claws, and the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 299 

latter by their slate-coloured legs. Eeal Surrey chickens 
possess a well-deserved reputation for plumpness, tender- 
ness, and delicacy of flavour. 

Both knowledge and care are required to select good 
poultry ; old and tough fowls can easily be detected by a 
slight tinge of violet seen through the skin of the thigh, 
as well as by the thin necks and feet. A young and tender 
chicken has always large feet and big knee-joints, which 
disappear with age; the flesh of the pinion and breast 
should be tried, and if these are found to be tender the 
bird can be cooked with confidence. 

An old turkey has, in a similar manner, a violet tinge on 
the legs and back, but a young one will be recognised by 
the whiteness of its flesh and fat. 

The fat of young ducks and geese is transparent arid 
light-coloured. Break off the lower part of the beak; if 
it breaks easily the bird is young. 

Pigeons when old have fillets of a dark violet colour, but 
when it is of a light red they are young birds. 

Beware of floured poultry, as well as of broken breasts. 

602. STEWED CHICKEN WITH RISOTTO. 

Select a nice plump tender chicken, draw and singe 
it over the flame of a gas-burner, cut it up in small 
joints in the following manner : — Lay the _chicken on the 
table with the head towards you, and with a sharp knife 
in the right hand cut off the neck, then the wings or 
pinions at the second joint, then the legs at the knotty 
bend of the first joint; then make an incision from the 
point of the breast-bone to the wing-joint on both sides ; 
turn the chicken round and make two other incisions to 
separate the thighs from the body; take off both wings 
and thighs, by laying the chicken on its side; separate 
the breast from the back and cut across in two. Put 



30O PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

these pieces in a saut^-pan. with two ounces of butter 
and fry them to a nice brown ; moisten with a pint and 
a half of good broth and a gill of Marsala; season with 
salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; simmer with 
the lid on till the pieces of chicken are done, which will 
take about half an hour. Meanwhile prepare a thick 
risotto (see Eisotto). When the chicken is ready, remove 
the pieces on to a dish and keep them hot ; add the gravy 
to the risotto ; stir, and dish it up when cooked ; arrange 
the pieces of chicken nicely on the top ; place the two 
pieces of the back in the middle of the dish ; lay across, 
one over the other, the two legs, the two pieces of neck, 
and the pinions ; fill up the other two openings or squares 
thus formed with the thighs and wings, and cover the lot 
with the two pieces of breast, and serve. 



603. STEWED CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 

Cut a tendei" chicken in small joints as in the foregoing. 
Melt in a sautd-pan an ounce of butter with a gill of salad- 
oil; add a bruised clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, two sprigs of 
thyme, salt and pepper to taste ; fry the pieces of chicken 
with these, for about twenty-five minutes on a brisk ficre 
until the pieces are done, when they must be removed from 
the' saut^-pan, placed on a dish, and kept hot ; throw away 
the aromatic herbs, and pour half a pint of Tomato sauce 
into the saut6-pan, with the half of that quantity of good 
broth or gravy and a dozen sliced champignons ; stir this 
and let it boil for five minutes over a brisk fire, then draw 
the pan away, add the juice of half a lemon, stir the con- 
tents well together, dish up the pieces of chicken in the 
same way as in No. 602, garnish the dish with the cham- 
pignons and crolitons fried in butter, and as many eggs 
fried in oil as there are persons, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 301 

604. STEWED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut up the chicken as for stewed chicken with risotto. 
Melt in a saut^-pan an ounce and a half of butter, put 
the pieces of chicken in the pan, taking care not to lay 
one over the other ; sprinkle salt and pepper to taste, and 
fry for about twenty-five minutes on rather a brisk fire, 
turning the pieces of meat over when wanted. Mean- 
while prepare a brown garnish of mushrooms (No. 301). 
When the chicken is done, dress the pieces on a dish, 
garnish with the mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and 
serve with a few cro'fitons. 

605. STEWED CHICKEN, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Cut up a chicken ; shred a middle-sized onion and carrot ; 
fry these in a stewpan for five minutes with a quarter of 
a pound of butter, stirring the while with a wooden spoon j 
add the pieces of chicken, season with salt and pepper, 
and continue the frying and stirring for another five 
minutes. Spread four tablespoonfuls of flour; fry for 
three minutes longer, and moisten with a pint and a half 
of good stock and four ripe tomatoes cut in quarters ; 
stir the contents till boiling to prevent burning, and 
simmer twenty minutes with the lid on. Add half a 
pound of fresh mushrooms properly cleaned and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley; simmer for another ten 
minutes; see that the sauce is well seasoned; dish up, 
and serve. 

606. STEWED CHICKEN A LA CHASSEUR. 

Select a nice tender chicken; draw, singe, and cut it up 
in the same style as the foregoing; place the pieces in a 
saut6-pan with two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil and one ounce 



302 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of butter; fry these over a brisk fire for five minutes; 
sprinkle in two sliq,lots chopped fine; stir the contents 
over the fire for another five minutes; moisten with half a 
pint of dry white wine ; add a quarter of a pound of fresh 
mushrooms- properly cleaned and finely sliced; season with 
salt, pepper, and two bay-leaves. Continue the stewing for 
fifteen minutes longer, taking care to turn the meat over 
as required ; then add a piece of glaze the size of a. nut 
and a similar quantity of fresh butter ; stir it till properly 
melted, and when done dish up the pieces of chicken. 
Squeeze the juice of a lemon and add a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley to the sauce ; stir it over the fire for a few 
seconds ; pour it over the chicken, and serve. 

607. FBICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Cut up a good chicken as in No. 602 ; drop the pieces 
into a basin containing two quarts of clear lukewarm 
water, and let them soak for fifteen minutes; drain and 
put into a stewpan with one quart of water, an onion with 
a clove stuck in it, a " bouquet garni," a sliced carrot, and 
the quarter of a head of celery ; season well with salt and 
pepper, and boil it ; skim carefully, then simmer for about 
half an hour with the pan partly covered, when the pieces 
of chicken will be done. Strain the broth through a 
colander into a basin and keep it apart ; immerse the 
pieces of chickfen in cold water and drain them on a clean 
cloth. Meanwhile stir for five minutes in a stewpan over 
the fia'e without browning, two ounces of flour, with the same 
quantity of very fresh butter ; add gradually the chicken 
broth and the liquor in which half a pint of champignons 
have boiled for five minutes ; stir the contents well whilst 
over the fire, so as to work it into a smooth sauce till it 
boils, when the stewpan must be drawn from the fire ; let 
it simmer for about half an hour, in order to throw up the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 303 

scum ; then skim it, and thicken the sauce with the yolks 
of four eggs, in the usual way ; stir this over the fire until 
it is nearly boiling, pass it through a tammy or gravy- 
strainer into the stewpan already containing the pieces 
of chicken; add to it the cooked champignons and an 
ounce of butter ; stir this gently over the fire, and when 
near ebullition dish up the pieces of chicken in the usual 
manner; pour the sauce over; garnish with the cham- 
pignons and fried crotitons, and serve. 

608. STEWED CHICKEN A LA PROVEN5ALE. 

Slice two large onions into rings, and fry them in a 
saut6-pan with half a gill of olive-oil, till of a nice light- 
brown colour; then add the pieces of a tender chicken, 
cut as for stewed chicken and risotto ; season with 
salt and pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, and 
a crushed clove of garlic. Fry these on a brisk fire to 
a nice brown colour, for about twenty minutes. Mean- 
while stew for five minutes in a stewpan half a pound 
of fresh mushrooms and four shalots chopped fine, together 
with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Moisten the 
whole with a tablespoonful of salad-oil and a giU. of 
Madeira wine; then add a gill each of either Espagnqle 
sauce or good broth and Tomato sauce, and boil ' it. 
When the pieces of chicken have simmered for twenty 
minutes, take them out with a fork and put in the stew- 
pan with the sauce. Simmer together with the Hd on for 
seven or eight minutes ; dish up the chicken in the usual 
way ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

609. STEWED CHICKEN A L'AFRICAINE. 

Cut up a chicken as for stewed chicken and risotto; 
cut also half a pound of raw ham x)r gammon in slices 



304. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

three inches long by about two wide ; melt two ounces of 
clarified butter in a Stewpan ; add the pieces of chicken 
and ham, together with a small " bouquet garni " composed 
of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and a clove of garlic; season 
with a small pinch of cayenne, and fry it over a good 
fire till the pieces of chicken have acquired a nice -golden 
colour ; drain off the fat ; moisten with three parts of a 
pint of good white stock (veal broth), a gill of French 
white wine, a small piece of glaze, half a teaspoonful of 
curry paste, and half a pound of fresh mushrooms properly 
cleaned and cut in small pieces ; let the contents boil for 
about fifteen minutes with the pan partly covered ; after 
which, draw the stewpan away from the fire ; remove the 
"bouquet garni;" add half an ounce of butter and the 
juice of half a lemon ;. dish up the pieces of chicken alter- 
nately with the slices of ham ; pour the sauce over ; decorate 
the base of the dish with fried croHtons, and serve. 

610. CURRIED CHICKEN. 

Out up a chicken as in the foregoing ; shred and fry an 
onion in a stewpan with an ounce of butter for about three 
minutes ; add the pieces of chicken and continue the frying 
till they are slightly coloured all over ; sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of flour ; season with salt and pepper ; stir over 
the fire for three minutes longer, and moisten with a pint 
of good stock and half a tablespoonful of curry paste. 
Simmer it for about twenty minutes with the pan half 
covered ; pour the contents of the stewpan into a colander 
over a basin; clean the stewpan; rub the sauce through 
a tammy or hair-sieve into the stewpan again. Take up 
from the colander each piece of chicken, clean and return 
them to the stewpan with the sauce, and warm them up 
without boiling. Meanwhile have some rice cooked as for 
curried rabbit. When the sauce is all but boiling dish 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 305 

up the pieces of chicken ; pour the sauce over, and serve 
with the boiled rice apart. 

611. STEWED CHICKEN AND MUSSELS. 

Cut up the chicken in small joints as in the foregoing, 
fry these in a saut6-pan all round to a nice golden colour 
with two ounces of clarified butter, and season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg ; moisten with a pint of veal 
stock or Espagnole sauce; simmer it for about twenty 
minutes ; after which, skim off the fat, add two quarts of 
mussels (No. 306) previously cooked for the purpose ; let 
it simmer for a few minutes ; squeeze in the juice of half 
a lemon ; toss the contents, and dish up the pieces of 
chicken in the usual way; pour the sauce over; garnish 
round with the mussels and half a dozen croutons fried in 
butter, and serve. 

Note. — Oysters may be substituted for mussels. 

612. STEWED CHICKEN A LA SICILIENNE. 

Cut a nice and tender chicken in the usual way ; place 
the pieces in a saut6-pan with an ounce of butter, two 
ounces of streaky bacon cut in dice, and a shred onion ; 
fry them to a nice brown on a brisk fire; moisten with 
either a pint of broth or water ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a bay-leaf, and let it simmer for about twenty minutes. 
Meanwhile prepare a Sicilian sauce (No. 211) and a pur^e 
of chesnuts (No. 237). When the pieces of chicken are 
well done lay the purte on a dish, dress on this the pieces 
of chicken and bacon ; pour a little Sicilian sauce over, and 
serve with the remainder of the sauce apart. 

613. STEWED CHICKEN A LA PI]^MONTAISE. 

Fry with two ounces of butter in a saute-pan the pieces 
of a chicken (cut as above), with a bay-leaf, a few sprigs 



3o6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of thyme, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; 
when of a nice colour all over m.oisten with either a pint 
of Espagnole sauce or good gravy ; simmer it for twenty-five 
minutes by the side of the fire. Meanwhile make a polenta 
(No. loo); and when it is well cooked and the pieces of 
chicken are tender, lay the polenta on a hot dish ; arrange 
the pieces of chicken in a pyramidal form; reduce the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked to a half-glaze, 
then strain it through a pointed gravy-strainer over the 
chicken, and serve. 

Note. — A few truffles cut in thin slices and cooked with 
the chicken will greatly improve this. 



614. FRITOT OF CHICKEN A L'lTALIENNE. 
After having singed, drawn, and cut a chickeii as for 
stewed chicken with risotto, marinade the pieces in a 
basin for three or four hours with half a gill of salad-oil, 
the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper, a few sprigs of 
thyme and parsley, one bay-leaf, and a sliced onion. Then 
dry them on a cloth, flour them well all over, and fry 
them in properly heated- fat to a nice golden colour. When 
done drain the pieces of chicken on a cloth ; dish them 
up in the usual way ; garnish with fried eggs and croutons, 
and serve with Italian sauce in a sauce-boat apart. 

615. FBITOT OF CHICKEN A LA MILANAISE. 
Cut up a chicken as in No. 614; rub each piece with 
clarified butter, and when well set dip them into some light 
batter and fry them in the hot fat to a nice golden colour. 
Meanwhile have some macaroni Milanaise (No. 94) ready, 
dish it up with the pieces of chicken on the top in a pyra- 
midal form, and serve with Tomato sauce apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 307 

616. CHICKEN WITH DEVILLED SAUCE. 
Draw and singe a chicken carefully ; then twist the legs 
neatly through the sides, without, however, tearing' the 
skin, and- cut it lengthwise through the breast-bone into 
halves, without separating it at the back ; remove as many 
bones as possible without interfering with the shape of 
the chicken j sprinkle -vyith salt" and pepper, rub both sides 
with clarified butter, and broil them on a moderate fire for 
eight or ten minutes on each side. When of a nice brown 
colour and properly done, dish up the chicken with some 
Devilled sauce (No. 201) poured under, and serve. 

617. BOILED CHICKEN WITH TARRAGON. 

Draw, singe, and trim the feet and wings of a nice 
chicken ; cut the under part of the thighs close up to the 
bend of the joint ; loosen the skin all round the thighs by 
introducing the fingers through the vent, and push the legs 
inside so that the feet only are seen ; lay the chicken on its 
breast, twist the pinions round to make them lie even with 
the back, turn the skin of the breast upon the back, then 
run a trussing-needle and string through the pinion on 
the left, and again through its lower joint on through the 
upper joint of the thigh ; the needle must now be brought 
round and inserted through the other wing in a similar 
manner, and the strings drawn tight and fastened. The 
legs must also be secured by running the needle through 
the upper part, leaving the drum-sticks under, and pass 
the needle through the back, then draw and tie the strings, 
so as to give the chicken a plump appearance ; rub it with 
half a lemon to keep it white, and place it in a stewpan 
with a pint and a half of water, an onion with two cloves 
stuck in it, a small "bouquet garni" (no garlic), salt and 
pepper to taste, and two or three sprigs of tarragon. Boil, 



3o8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and simmer very gently for about thirty-five minutes with 
the lid on, taking care to turn the chicken over after a 
quarter of an hour's ebullition. When the chicken is done, 
strain the gravy through a pointed gravy-strainer into a 
small stewpan ; add a few drops of caramel to give it a 
rich colour, and set it on the fire to boil fast for about 
seven minutes, in order to reduce it to a half-glaze. Mean- 
while untie the chicken, place it on a dish with two or 
three sprigs of tarragon blanched in boiling water for two 
minutes, and keep hot. When the sauce has reached its 
proper consistency pour it over the chicken, and serve. 

Note. — The chicken will eat better if broth is substituted 
for water. 



618. BOILED CHICKEN WITH ROCK-SALT. 

clean and truss a good chicken as in No. 617; rub it 
with lemon, and cook it in the same manner. When the 
broth has been' properly reduced pour it over the chicken ; 
place a good teaspoonful of rock-salt on the breast, and 
serve. 

619. BOILED CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

Prepare, truss, and cook a chicken in a quart of broth as 
in the foregoing. When the chicken is done strain the 
broth into another stewpan, and keep the chicken hot 
by the side of the fire. Meanwhile boil half a pound of 
properly washed rice (see Rice) with the strained broth for 
about eighteen minutes ; then add a pinch of grated nut- 
meg, a tablespoonful of grated cheese, and half aii ounce 
of butter. Mix these well together and pour it over a dish, 
put the chicken on it, sauce over with about a gill of 
Btehamel sauce, and serve. 

Note. — If half a pint of the chicken broth is kept apart 
in a small stewpan after being strained, and then reduced 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 309 

to an essence or half-glaze, it can be substituted for 
Bechamel sauce. 

620. ROAST CHICKEN. 

It is advisable when about to roast poultry to dip the 
bird or birds into boiling water for two minutes, in order 
to open the pores of the skin, which process will make the 
meat eat very tender and more juicy than otherwise. 

After having .selected a good chicken, drawn, singed, and 
trussed, for roasting in a similar way as for boiling, but 
without pushing the legs under the thighs, butter a sheet 
of paper as well as the breast of the chicken ; fold the sheet 
of paper over, tie it round with string, and set it to roast 
before a moderate fire for about thirty-five minutes. When 
the chicken is done untie the string ; dish up ; strain, and 
free the gravy from grease ; pour it over the chicken ; 
garnish round with water-cress, previously sprinkled with 
salt, pepper, and vinegar, and serve. 

Note. — Rashers of bacon fried and Bread sauce are some- 
times served with roast chicken. 



621. CHICKEN WITH MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

This dish is generally made with the remnants of chicken. 
Cut the cold chicken in pieces ; place on a dish the hearts 
of a few French lettuces, properly cleaned, dried, and cut 
in quarters ; keep four of the nicest apart ; dress the pieces 
of chicken over the salad ; pour sufficient Mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 219) to cover and coat the chicken; decorate the dish 
with the four quarters of lettuce and some hard-boiled eggs 
also cut in quarters ; add, in a similar manner, a few slices 
of Cooked beetroot cut in fancy shapes, and the fillets of 
three or four anchovies, properly boned and twisted round 
the finger, and serve. 



310 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

622. CHICKEN WITH TARTARE SAUCE. 

This is prepared in the same style as the foregoing, but 
substitute Tartare sauce (No. 221) for Mayonnaise. 

623. BOUDINS OF CHICKEN A LA RICHELIEU. 

Make some chicken forcemeat (No. 272), rather stiff; 
add to it an onion cut in small dice, previously blanched, 
drained, and fried in plenty of butter for about eight 
minutes without colouring ; then butter some strips of 
kitchen paper four inches long by two and a half wide; 
lay on these lengthwise_ about three inches of forcemeat 
one inch and a half wide, and the same measurement 
in thickness, and with a teaspoon make a hollow in the 
centre of each boudin about three inches long by half an 
inch deep and one inch wide ; fill these up with a salpioon 
h la financifere (No. 310), but mixed with a well-reduced 
Allemande sauce instead of Financifere sauce, and cover the 
salpicon of each boudin with chicken forcemeat again, so 
as to hide it completely. Then poach them gently in a 
saut6-pan with broth for about fifteen minutes ; after 
which, take them out carefully with a flat skimmer, lay 
them on a clean cloth to drain, remove the paper if still 
attached to them, dish up the boudins in a circle, and serve 
with a well-reduced Bspagnole sauce poured under them. 

Note. — Boudins of chicken can also be served with 
salpicon k I'ltalienne (No. 307), k la Valenciennes (No. 
316), or with either a pur^e of fresh mushrooms or truffles. 

624. QUENELLES OF CHICKEN A LA TOULOUSE. 
Prepare some chicken forcemeat (No. 271), sprinkle 
some flour on the slab or board, and spread the forcemeat 
on this, to the thickness of about an inch, with the blade 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 311 

of a knife dipped in boiling water ; sprinkle a little flour 
over, and divide the layer in strips four inches long by 
one inch and a half wide ; roll' these slightly with the 
fingers, so as to give them an oblong shape, then place the 
quenelles in rows in a buttered saut6-pan about an inch 
apart ; pour some boiling broth gently oy the side, so as to 
cover them, and simmer for about ten minutes. When 
done remove them carefully with a flat skimmer, and 
drain them on a clean cloth ; dish up the quenelles in 
a circle, fill up the centre with salpicon k la Toulouse 
(No. 311), but not chopped so fine, and well-diluted with 
Velout6 sauce (No. 153), and serve. 

Note. — Quenelles of chicken are always made and poached 
in the same way, but can be served in different styles, such 
as a ritalienne (No. 307), k la Royale (No. 309), a la 
financiere (310), or any other salpicon, provided these 
are properly diluted with their respective sauce, and the 
ingredients are not chopped so fine as for salpicon. These 
are usually known under the name of " Eagout," but in 
order to simplify matters as much as possible, I give them 
under the same heading, being prepared m the same man- 
ner, but, as already mentioned, not minced so fine. 



625. CHICKEN PANCAKES. 

Prepare and keep warm in a stewpan some salpicon a la 
financifere (No. 310), mixed with a well-reduced Allemande 
or Bechamel sauce instead of fihaneifere. 

Fry the number of pancakes required (see Pancakes); 
lay on each two tablespoonfuls of the chicken salpicon ; 
turn and roll both sides of the pancake over, so as to 
enclose the mixture ; cut these across in half ; dish them 
up in the form of a pyramid, and serve garnished round 
with fried parsley. 



312 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

626. CAPON A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Boil for fifteen minutes one pound of macaroni, then 
strain the water through a colander, cut the macaroni in 
three-inch lengths, and put them in a stewpan with an 
ounce and a half of fresh butter and one ouncs of grated 
parmesan cheese. Toss up the contents over the fire for a 
few minutes and draw it away. Meanwhile have a nice 
capon properly singed ; clip the claws ; cut off the neck close 
to the back, but leave as much of the crop-skin as possible ; 
draw the entrails, &&, through an incision made at the 
back of the neck ; then with a strong-bladed knife remove 
the angular part of the breast-bone, without, however, 
tearing the breast or cutting the fillets ; stufE the capon 
with the cooked macaroni ; draw the skin of the crop at 
the back so as to close up the paunch, and with a small 
trussing-needle and twine sew it up, and fasten both ends 
of the twine to the back of the capon ; then truss the 
capon for roasting, dip it in boiling water for two minutes, 
dry it all round, and wrap it up in a well-buttered sheet of 
paper; tie this round with string, and roast it before a 
moderate fire for about fifty minutes, taking care to baste 
it three or four times. When done remove the paper and 
string ; . dish up ; pour some rich gravy, properly strained, 
over, and serve. 

627. CAPON A LA PIISmONTAISE. 

Prepare a capon in a similar manner as the foregoing ; 
roast and peel a pound and a half of nice chesnuts, put 
them in a basin with half a pound of sausage meat ; season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of allspice. 
Moisten with a. gill of broth or Madeira wine. Mix the lot 
well together ; fill up the, capon with it ; when properly 
stuffed and trussed dip it in boiling water for two minutes ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 313 

dry, butter, arid wrap it up in the same manner as in No. 
627 j roast it before a moderate but even fire for about fifty 
minutes, and when done dish it up in the same way, and 
serve with some good gravy poured over. 

628. CAPON A LA LUCULLUS. 

Draw, singe, and prepare a capon as previously described 
for capon k la Napolitaine ; then cut in small slices one pound 
of clean calf's liver and half a pound of fat bacon ; fry 
these in a stewpan for a few minutes with an ounce of 
butter ; moisten with a gill of Marsala. Season with salt, 
nutmeg, spice, and the peel of a pound of trufiles ; simmer 
for seven minutes ; let it get cold and pound it in a mortar ; 
then add the peeled truffles cut the size of small nuts ; 
mix the whole well together and stuff the capon with it ; 
truss it in the usual way ; dip it for two minutes in boiling 
water ; dry, and lay a slice of fat bacon over the breast ; 
wrap up the capon with a sheet of buttered paper, and 
roast it before an even fire for about an hour. Meanwhile 
prepare a risotto k I'ltalienne (No. 109). When the capon 
is ready dish it up, place the risotto in tablespoonfuls as 
a garnish round it, and serve with a rich gravy, to which 
a little essence of truffles has been added, in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

Note. — It is advisable, when time permits, to stuff a 
capon two or three days before it is wanted, and keep it 
in a cool place. 

629. CAPON. CITIZEN STYLE. 

Mince fine half a pound of beef kidney fat ; mix it with 
three handfuls of bread-crumbs, three tablespoonfuls of 
fine herbs (No. ipSa), the yolks of two eggs properly 
beaten, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste ; stir all 
well together, and with it stuff a capon, previously pre- 



314 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pared for that purpose, as in the foregoing ; truss it in 
the usual way ; dip it in boiling water for two minutes j 
dry it, and lay a good slice of fat bacon over the breast ; 
wrap it in a well-buttered sheet of paper, and roast it 
before an even fire for about an hour. Meanwhile cook 
separately, in salt water, , a few potatoes cut m shape of 
crescents, cauliflower, beans, and peas. When the capon 
is properly cooked take it from the fire, remove the paper 
and string, dish it up and garnish it with the cooked vege- 
tables placed separately around ; pour some good gravy 
under, and serve with Butter sauce in a boat apart. 

630. BOILED CAPON AND RICE. 

This is done in the same manner as boiled chicken and 
lice (see No. 619). 

63L BOILED CAPON AND TARRAGON. 

Prepare and boil a capon in the same style as boiled 
chicken and tarragon, and serve it with boiled pickled 
ox-tongue apart. 

632. BRAIZED CAPON A LA MILANAISE. 
Singe, draw, and truss a capon as previously described. 
Cut one pound of truffles into pieces the size of a broad- 
bean ; after having peeled them pound the trimmings with 
one pound of fat oacon, season with salt, pepper, grated 
nutmeg, a chopped bay-leaf, and thyme ; mix this together 
with the truffles in a stewpan and simmer gently for about 
ten minutes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. 
Moisten with a gUl of good gravy and continue stirring 
and simmering for another ten minutes ; let the mixture 
get cold; then stuff the capon with itj fasten the crop- 
skin, and truss the bird as for boiling ; let it remain thus. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 315 

if possible, in a cool place for two days, when the flavour 
of the truffles will have penetrated well into the flesh. 
"When wanted, prepare four or five dozen ravioli (No. 97). 
Set the capon in a stewpan with enough good broth to 
cover the pinions, simmer very gently for about an hour 
and a quarter, taking care to turn it over after three- 
quarters of an hour's cooking. When properly done remove 
the string ; dish up ; garnish round with the ravioli ; re- 
dvtce the gravy to a half-glaze by sharp boiling; strain 
it, and serve it in a sauce-boat, with the capon and rivioli. 
Poulardes are cooked and dressed in every way as 
capons. 

633. BRAIZED DUCK WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Select a young and tender duck, singe, draw, and truss 
it as for roasting ; put it in a stewpan with an onion with 
two cloves stuck in it, one carrot, and a small " bouquet 
garni." Moisten with a pint of good broth, season with 
salt and pepper, and simmer it very gently with the lid on 
for about an hour and a quarter, taking' care to turn the 
bird after forty minutes' cooking. Meanwhile prepare a 
garnish of middle-sized peas (No. 286). When the duck 
is well done take it out of the. pan, remove the string, dish 
it up with the peas, strain the gravy; skim off all the 
grease, reduce it over a brisk fire if necessary ; pour it 
on the duck, and serve. 

634, BRAIZED DUCK WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Prepare a duck as described ; put it in a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter ; fry for about ten minutes, turning it 
round to ensure an even colouring ; take it out and place 
it on a dish ; then fry to a light-brown colour half a pound 
of streaky bacon free from rind and gristle and cut one 
inch square; sprinkle over these an ounce of flour; con- 



3i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tinue to fry and' stir the contents with a wooden spoon for 
three minutes longer; then moisten with a pint of good 
stock, add an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a "bouquet 
garni," salt and pepper to taste ; stir till boiling. Then put 
in the duck, together with a quart of medium-sized green 
peas ; simmer very gently with the pan partly covered for 
about an hour and a quarter, taking care to turn the duck 
after thirty minutes' simmering. When done remove the 
" bouquet garni " and onion ; put the bird on a plate, skim 
off very carefully all the grease from the peas ; dish these 
up with the bacon ; untie the. duck and place it in the 
centre of the dish ; pour the gravy over, and serve. 

635. DUCK WITH TURNIPS. 

After having prepared a duck as above, fry it in a stew- 
pan with an ounce of butter to a nice golden colour all 
round ; then take it out and sprinkle three tablespoonf uls 
of flour in the same stewpan ; stir this over the fire for 
about three minutes ; moisten it with a pint and a half 
of good broth ; boil it, stirring the while to prevent burn- 
ing ; put in the duck, together with a small " bouquet 
garni," an onion stuck with two cloves, and season with 
salt and pepper, and simmer gently with the pan partly 
covered for about fifty minutes. Meanwhile peel and cut 
a pound of nice tender turnips into fancy shapes, such as 
half-moons and olives, add these to the duck and continue 
the simmering till they are done ; remove the " bouquet 
garni" and onion. Dish up the bird in the usual way; 
garnish round with the turnips ; skim off all the grease 
from the sauce, pour it over the duck, and serve. 

636. BRAIZED DUCK WITH STEWED OLIVES. 

Prepare and braize a duck as in No. 635. Meanwhile 
stone a piat of nice French olives; stew these with the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 317 

duck for six or seven minutes; dish up the bird, after 
having removed the string ; garnish round with the olives ; 
skim off very carefully all the grease from the gravy; 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, pour this over the 
duck, and serve. 

637. BRAIZED DUCK WITH CABBAGE. 

Out, clean, and blanch in salt water for five minutes a 
nice savoy cabbage. Meanwhile have ready trussed in the 
usual way a good duck, which place in a stewpan with a pint 
and a half of good stock, an onion stuck with three cloves, and 
a carrot ; cover this with the cabbage properly strained ; add 
half a pound of Bologna sausage and the same quantity 
of steaky bacon ; season with salt and pepper ; set to simmer 
very gently, with the pan covered, for about an hour ; after 
which, remove the lid, place the stewpan in the oven for 
iifteen minutes, to finish cooking and brown the cabbage; 
then take out the bird, remove the string, take the carrot 
and onion away, put the bacon and sausage on a plate, and 
strain the liquor through a colander into a small stewpan ; 
press the cabbage well ; dish it up with the duck and keep 
hot by the side of the oven. Meanwhile skim off the fat 
from the gravy, reduce it to a half-glaze on a brisk fire, 
pour it over the duck aixd cabbage, cut the sausage and 
bacon into slices, decorate the dish alternately with it, and 
serve. 

638. ROAST DUCK. 

Slice a pound of onions and mix them with eighteen 
sage-leaves, blanch in salt water for five minutes, then 
drain and chop them fine ; fry them in a stewpan with an 
ounce of butter well seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg for about ten minutes, stirring the while with a 
wooden spoon; then add an ounce of ' bread-crumbs, and 



3i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes 
longer. When cool stuff the duck with it ; truss the duck 
in the usual way ; dip it in boiling water for two minutes ; 
dry, and set it to roast before a brisk fire for twenty 
minutes. When done, untie the string; dish up, pour 
under some rich gravy free from fat, and serve. 

639. ROAST GOOSE. 

Having selected a fine fat goose, draw and singe it as 
previously described for capon d la Napolitaine; then 
stuff it with one pound and a half of onions, two dozen 
green sage-leaves, the goose-liver, and two ounces of bread- 
crumbs, the whotfe. prepared in a similar manner to the 
stuffing as for r^ast chicks When the goose is thus pro- 
perly stuffed truss it in thi^ usual way -for roasting, and. 
then dip it in boiling water), dry it. and set it before an 
even fire to roast for about aHv-bwtff and a half, according 
to size, taking care to frequently^, baste it. When the goose 
is well cooked take it away from the fire, remove the string, 
dish up, pour some rich brown gra'vy under, and serve with 
Apple sauce (No. i8i) in a sauce-boat apart. 

640. ROAST GOOSE STUFFED WITH CHESNUTS. 
Prepare a goose as in the previous number ; cut the liver 
into small dice, and chop up fine two onions and fry these 
with about an ounce of chopped fat bacon for seven or eight 
minutes. Meanwhile prepare a garnish of chesnuts (No. 
278) ; add the stuffing to it, season it with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, mix the lot well together, and stuff the goose with 
it ; then ti-uss in the usual way, dip in boiling water, and 
set it to roagt before an even fire for about an hour and a 
quarter, taking care to often baste it. When the goose is 
ready dish it up as usual, pour some good brown gravy 
under it, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 319 

641. GOOSE A LA NAVARRAISE. 

Chop fine one pound of veal cushion, free from skin and 
gristle, half a pound of fat bacon, the goose-Hver, an onion, 
a clove of garlic, and a few sprigs of parsley ; fry these in 
a stewpan with an ounce of butter for ten minutes ; season 
with salt, pepper, and allspice ; add four ounces of cooked 
rice ; mix the whole well together and let it cool. Mean- 
while prepare a fat goose as previously described for 
braizing (see Capon Napolitaine), and as soon as the mix- 
ture is set, stuff the goose with it; truss it afterwards in 
the usual way for boiling ; place it in an oval braize-pan 
with two ounces of butter, two bay-leaves, and a shred 
oliion ; fry till the goose is nicely coloured all round, then 
moisten with a quart of ordinary stock or water and a 
gUl of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and set it to 
simmer gently, with the pan partly covered, for about an 
hour and a half, taking care to turn the goose over once, 
and baste it often. Add gradually more broth if necessary. 
When the goose is properly braized take it out of the pan 
and keep it hot ; strain the broth through a gravy- strainer 
into another stewpan containing a thick half-cooked risotto; 
stir this on the fire and complete its cooking ; then dish it 
up, place the goose in the centre, and serve with a good 
gravy in a sauce-boat apart. 

642. GOOSE A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Prepare a garnish of sauerkraut (No. 297) without bacon 
or sausage. When this has boiled four hours add a goose 
properly singed, drawn, and trussed for boiling, together 
with half a pound of streaky bacon and the same quan- 
tity of Frankfort sausages ; cover the stewpan closely and 
simmer for at least two hours, taking care, however, to 
remove the bacon and sausages when done, which will be 



320 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in about forty minutes. Cut the bacon in squares two and 
a quarter inches thick, and cut the sausages in the same 
style ; keep these hot in a little broth till wanted. When 
the goose is cooked . remove it from the pan, untie the 
string ; strain and press the sauerkraut in a colander ; dish 
it up; put the goose in the centre; garnish round alter- 
nately with the sausage and bacon, and serve, 

643. STEWED GOOSE WITH TOMATOES. 

Draw, singe, and cut. a goose into sixteen parts (see 
stewed chicken with risotto), bone these as much as possible, 
then place them nicely in a large well-buttered saut6-pan 
with two ounces of clarified butter, half a pound of chopped 
fat bacon, two chopped onions, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley ; season with salt and pepper ; fry the lot 
over a brisk fire till the pieces of goose are nicely coloured 
all round, then moisten with a pint and a half of broth 
add six nice ripe tomatoes, previously peeled and cut in 
slices ; simmer till well done ; then dish up the pieces of 
goose in the same style as chicken marengo, pour the 
sauce round, and serve. 

644. BRAIZED TURKEY A L'lTALIENNE. 

For this dish select a fine young turkey weighing about 
eight pounds, trim, singe, and draw it in the same style as 
capon k la Napolitaine ; sew up the vent-opening; cut 
off the feet, scald the legs in order to divest them of their 
black skin, and remove the angular breast-bone ; then make 
a risotto k I'ltalienne (No. no) with one quart of rice, for 
which use the giblets of the turkey. When the risotto has 
cooled down a little, stuff the turkey with it, draw up the 
crop-skin and sew it carefully, as described for capon k la 
Napolitaine. Truss it as for braizing, then place it in an 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 321 

oval braizing- pan with enough stock to cover the pinions ; 
add two onions, each stuck with two cloves, and one head 
of celery; season with salt and pepper; boil, and then 
simmer with the pan partly covered for two hours, taking 
care to often baste the bird, and turn it over after an hour's 
simmering. When done, take out the turkey and put it 
with half a pint of its liquor on a baking-dish in the oven 
for ten minutes to glaze. Meanwhile strain a pint of the 
broth through. a tammy into a small stewpan, reduce it by 
sharply boiling over the fire, and when the turkey has been 
glazed, dish it up with its gravy free from fat, and serve 
with the reduced sauce apart. 

645. BRAIZED TURKEY A LA JARDINIERE. 

Prepare' a nice fat turkey as in the foregoing, without 
stuffing ; truss for braizing ; cover with thin slices of fat 
bacon, and wrap in a well-buttered sheet of paper ; place 
it in a stewpan with a carrot, one head of celery, two 
onions, each stuck with two cloves, a " bouquet garni," and 
enough stock to cover the paper; season with salt and 
pepper ; boil, and then simmer very gently for two hours 
with the pan partly covered. In the meantime prepare 
separately a garnish a la jardiniere, composed of a quarter 
of a pound of French beans (No. 290), four ounces of cauli- 
flower-head (No. 292), four ounces of asparagus-points 
(No. 287), four ounces of turnips (No. 284), and four 
ounces of carrots (No. 283) tui-ned into small pear-shaped 
pieces. Having cooked them separately, mix the lot well 
together by tossing in a saute-pan, and keep hot. 

When the turkey is properly cooked, remove the string, 
paper, and bacon; dish it up, garnish round with the 
vegetables and serve, with Bechamel sauce (No. 154) in a 
sauce-boat apart. The gravy must be strained and put by 
for use. 

X 



322 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



646. BOILED TURKEY WITH CELERY. 

Prepare and draw a nice ten-turkey as in the previous 
number, stuff it with veal or sausage-meat stuffing, and 
truss it for boiling. Put it in an oval braizing-pan with 
enough white stock to cover it ; add a carrot, an onion stuck 
with two cloves, one head of celery, and a " bouquet garni." 
Boil it, and simmer gently for two hours. Meanwhile 
prepare a garnish of celery (No. 283), and when the turkey 
is properly cooked remove the string, dish it up, garnish 
round with celery, pour the Celery sauce over the turkey, 
and serve. 

647. BOILED TURKEY WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 
Prepare, stuff and boil a turkey as directed for boiled 
turkey with celery, and when ready dish it up and garnish 
with Oyster sauce (No. 186) before serving. 

648. ROAST TURKEY A LA PI^MONTAISE. 
Draw and singe a nice young turkey as described for 
turkey k I'ltalienne ; prepare one pound of either veal 
or sausage-meat, put it in a large basin with two pounds 
of well-roasted and peeled chesnuts ; moisten with half a 
pint of broth ; season well with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
allspice; mix well together, and stuff the turkey with it. 
Sow up the paunch, truss the bird for roasting ; dip it in 
boiling water for two or three minutes ; wipe it dry ; lay 
a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast ; wrap up the bird 
in a well-<buttered sheet of paper, tie it with string, and 
set it to roast before a nice even fire for about two hours, 
according to size, taking care to baste it often. When the 
turkey is cooked, dish it up, after having removed the 
paper and string, and serve with good gravy free from 
fat. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 323 

649. ROAST TURKEY A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Prepare a turkey as in the previous number. Boil two 
posads of macaroni in the usual way for fifteen minutes, 
strain the water through a colander, cut the macaroni 
in three-inch lengths, and put them into a stewpan with 
three ounces of butter, two ounces of grated parmesan 
cheese, two pinches of pepper, and one of nutmeg. Shake 
this up over the fire till the cheese is properly melted and 
mixed, and then with a spoon stuff the turkey with it; 
sew up the breast-skin ; truss the bird for roasting, dip it 
in boiling water, dry, butter it well all round, wrap it in a 
buttered sheet of paper, tied on with string, and then roast 
it before a good even fire for about two hours, frequently 
basting it. When done, remove the turkey from the fire, 
untie the string and paper, dish up, strain and skim off 
the gravy, pour it over the turkej', and serve. 

650, ROAST TURKEY STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES. 

For this purpose a fine young turkey should be stuffed 
at least two days previous to being cooked, and kept in a 
cool place during that time, for the same reason as already 
stated for braized '"capon k la Milanaise. Peel two pounds 
of truffles, cut these into size of broad-beans and put them 
in a large basin, pound the trimmings in a mortar and 
add them to the truffles, together with two pounds of sau- 
sage-meat and half a pound of minced pickled cooked ox- 
tongue. Season with salt, nutmeg, a little pounded mace, 
and thyme ; moisten with a gill of Madeira ; mix well 
together, and stuff the turkey with it. Draw the crop-skin 
to the back and sew it up in the usual way, and truss it 
for roasting. When wanted, dip it in boiling water ; dry 
it, and lay a large thin slice of fat bacon over the breast ; 
wrap it up in a well-buttered sheet of paper ; tie it round 



324 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and roast it before a good even fire for two hours, taking 
care to baste it frequently. When done, take it from the 
fire, remove the paper and string, strain and skim the 
gravy, dish up the turkey, pour the gravy over, and serve. 



661. TURKEY'S GIBLETS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Clean and singe the giblets of a turkey, blanch the lot 
in boiling salt water for three minutes, then cut each — the 
gizzard and neck — in four, and the pinions in two ; cut also 
the liver in four, and put it on a plate apart. Fry to a, 
light-brown colour, in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, 
about six ounces of streaky bacon, cut in inch-dice, free 
from rind and gristle ; then take these out, and fry the 
giblets for ten or twelve minutes on a biisk fire, taking 
care that the pieces are not laid one over the other. After 
which, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour ; continue the 
frying for about three minutes longer; stir with a wooden 
spoon ; moisten with a pint and a half of stock or water ; 
season with salt and pepper ; add a " bouquet garni," and 
boil and simmer for three-quarters of an hour, with the 
pan partly covered. In the meantime peel and cut into 
half moons one pound of turnips, fry these in a stewpan 
to a nice golden colour, with an ounce of butter, and put 
them on a plate; peel and fry also cne dozen button 
onions, and add them to the turnips ; then peel two 
pounds of potatoes to an egg-shape. When the giblets 
have simmered three-quarters of an hour, add tjie bacon, 
turnips, onions, and potatoes, and simmer for twenty 
minute.s longer ; then add the liver, previously fried for 
two or three minutes ; boil again gently for another ten 
or twelve minutes, and draw the pan away from the fire, 
remove the 'f bouquet garni," and skim off carefully all the 
grease and scum ; dish up the giblets in the centre ; pour 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 325 

the vegetables and sauce over, sprinkle the lot with a tea- 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and serve. 



652. STEWED PIGEONS WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Select three nice house-pigeons; pick, draw, and singe 
them as chickens ; return the liver to the inside of the 
birds ; cut off the necks, and truss for braizing (see 
Boiled Chicken with Tarragon). Kemove the rind of half 
fi pound of streaky bacon, cut it in inch-dice, fry these to 
a nice brown colour in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 
and take them out ; put in the pigeons in their stead, and 
fry them to a golden colour all round over a brisk fire ; 
then put them aside with the bacon ; sprinkle in the same 
stewpan two tablespoon fuls of flour, and stir this with a 
wooden spoon over the fire for three or four minutes ; 
moisten with one and a half pint of good broth, season 
with salt and pepper, and boil, and stir it to prevent 
burning. Then add the pigeons, together with the bacon, 
a " bouquet garni," and a quart of fresh shelled green peas ; 
simmer gently, with the pan partly covered, for about half 
an hour or thirty- five minutes ; then remove the string 
from the birds, take the " bouquet " out, skim all the 
scum and grease off the peas and bacon, povir these on a 
dish, put the pigeons in the centre, and serve. 

653. STEWED PIGEONS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Prepare, truss, and cook three pigeons as above, but 
instead of green peas substitute two dozen button onions, 
previously blanched and browned in butter, together with 
one pint of nicely turned champignons also blanched. in 
their liquor, and the whole added to the sauce with the 
bacon, pigeons, and " bouquet garni." Season tho mixture 
in the usual way, and simmer gently for thirty- five 



326 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

miautes ; then remove the pigeons, untie the string, and 
dish them up ; take the " bouquet " out ; skim oft all fat 
and scum; garnish the pigeons round with the onions, 
mushrooms, and bacon, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

654. PIGEON CUTLETS WITH MACJ^DOINE. 

Select three young and fat pigeons, cut these lengthwise 
in half, remove the wings and part of the breast-bones, 
tuck the leg-bones inside, season well with salt and pepper, 
and fry the halves or cutlets in a saut4pan on a brisk fire, 
with two ounces of butter, for fifteen minutes. Take them 
out and press them between two dishes till cold ; after which, 
turn each cutlet into a nice form, and dip them in melted 
butter and bread-crumb them ; broil them over a slow fire 
till of a golden colour, and then dish them up in a circle, 
fill the centre with a garnish of macedoine (No. 281), and 
serve. 

655. PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE. 

Take three nice young pigeons, properly drawn and 
singed, and cut them lengthwise across the breast, with- 
out separating them at the back; flatten them with the 
cutlet-bat and remove the bones from the legs and breasts ; 
put these in a saut6-pan with one and a half ounce of 
butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry them for 
fifteen minutes over a brisk fire ; then put them between 
two-baking tins and press with a four-pound weight at 
the top. In the meantinie chop fine, two shalots, and fry 
them in the same saucepan for a few minutes ; then add 
half a pint of good stock, half a gill of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley ; season with salt and pepper ; 
boil it, and reduce it by half; then squeeze the juice of 
a lemon in it. When the pigeons are quite cold, dip them 
in half an ounce of melted butter and bread-crumb them ; 
after which, broil them over a clear fire to a nice golden 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 327 

colour on both sides, strain the sauce through a pointed 
strainer over a dish, put the pigeons on it, and serve. 

656. ROAST PIGEONS. 

Draw and singe three young pigeons as above and truss 
them for roasting; cover the breast of each bird with a 
thin shoe of fat bacon, tie on with string, and set the 
birds to roast before a good fire for fifteen minutes. When 
done take them from the fire and remove the string; dish 
up the pigeons with the bacon on the breasts; pour the 
gravy under ; garnish round with watercress, previously 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and serve. 

Note. — Wild pigeons should always be roasted. 

657. GUINEA-FOWL, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Pick, draw, singe, and cut in pieces two young guinea- 
fowls as for stewed chicken and risotto; put the pieces 
in a stewpan with three ounces of butter and fry them 
over a brisk fire to a nice brown all over ; then moisten 
with a gill of sherry and simmer for five minutes ; add half 
a pint of broth, salt and pepper to taste, and half a pound 
of fresh mushrooms cut in slices ; then simmer till the 
pieces of fowl are tender, and sprinkle in a tablespoonful 
of finely chopped parsley and squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon, toss up the whole whilst over the fir^ and dish it 
up in the same style as stewed chicken, pour the sauce 
over, and serve. 

658. ROAST GUINEA-FOWL. 

Draw, singe, and truss two guinea-fowls for roasting ; cut 
six ounces of fat bacon in small strips of an inch and a half 
long, and lard the breasts with a larding-needle ; wrap each 
fowl in a well- buttered paper, and tie this with string ; then 
set the birds to roast before an even fire for about half an 



328 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

hour, and baste them twice ; remove the paper, and continue 
roasting for eight or ten minutes, or till the strips of bacon 
are nicely coloured, without, however, letting them get too 
brown. When done take them from the fire, remove the 
string, dish them up with their gravy nicely strained and 
skimmed, and garnish with watercress, seasoned as de- 
scribed for roast pigeons, and serve. 

Note. — Guinea-fowls are poultry, although very often 
served as a substitute for game, on account of their dark- 
coloured flesh. 

659. ROAST CYGNET. 

Cygnet should only be eaten in September; after that 
month they get tough. 

Clean, draw, and singe a cygnet in the same style as a 
goose. Chop fine tvyo pounds of beef -steak; season with 
three chopped shalots, two pinches of grated nutmeg, two 
of pepper, and a teaspoonful of salt, and moisten with a 
gill of broth. Stuff the cygnet with this in the usual way 
and truss it for roasting ; lay on the breast two nice slices 
of fat bacon, and wrap it in two sheets of well-buttered 
paper; roast it before a clear fire for about three hours/ 
during which time it must be frequently basted. When 
done, serve it with a rich gravy. 

660. ROAST PEA-FOWL. 

Pea-fowls are seldom cooked now, though young birds 
when fat and full in the flesh are very good roasted ; but 
they should first be larded over the breast and thighs and 
put to marinade for a day in a pint of white wine, some 
aromatic herbs, salt, pepper, cloves, a blade of mace, and a 
slice of gammon ; they should then be roasted in a similar 
manner to cygnet, and served with a sharp or devilled 
sauce mixed with the gravy of roast fowl and garnished 
with seasoned watercress. 



CHAPTER XV. 

REMARKS/ ON GAME. 

The markets of this country are generally well supplied 
with game, and such birds as pheasants, partridges, grouse, 
snipes, and wild-fowl are always plentiful in season. 

Pheasants when young have very small spurs, and the 
tenderness of the flesh is ascertained by pressing the 
pinions. 

Wild-duck, widgeon, teal, and other water-fowl are 
selected in a similar manner. 

Woodcock are also selected by trying the pinions and 
breast. 

Partridges and grouse are tested in the same way, but 
their age can be ascertained by carefully examining the 
long feathers of the wingj those round at the tip belong 
to old birds, the pointed ones to young. 

The high flavour and peculiar delicacy of game, when 
hung properly, is superior to that of all other animal food. 
Pheasants cooked within three days of being killed have 
none of their characteristic taste, and will simply eat as 
chicken ; but if hung for twelve or fifteen days in a cool 
place", the pleasant and agreeable aroma so much appreciated 
by epicures is fully imparted to the flesh. To obtain this the 
colour of the lower part of the birds should be of a dark- 
green before cooking. Should they, however, be found too 
high or even putrefied, do not on that account throw them 
away, as the following recipe (like many others given in 



330 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

this work, but very little known) Will remove all unpleasant 
taste and flavour from any game : — 

Wash the birds that may be full of maggots, &c., first in 
vinegar, then soak them in cold milk for half an hour, and 
then let them be wiped and cooked in the usual way, when 
they will eat to perfection. 

661. SALMI OF PHEASANTS. 

Roast two hen-pheasants, and when cold remove the 
legs and cut off the drum-sticks ; then cut the fillets with 
the pinion-bones attached to them, separate the breast 
from the back, trim them both and cut them crosswise 
into halves and put these pieces in a stewpan. Pound in a 
mortar the drum-sticks and trimmings, and mix this purte 
with some Salmis sauce (No. 199), previously prepared; 
stir the contents well together, pour it over the pieces 
of pheasant, and warm it gradually without boiling. When 
ready squeeze in the juice of ialf a lemon, stir, and dish 
it up as a fricassee of chicken ; pour the sauce over, 
garnish round with fried croutons, and serve. 

Note. — A few button mushrooms and slices of trufiles, 
previously cooked with the Salmis sauce, will greatly im- 
prove this dish. 

662. PHEASANT, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 
Draw and truss for braizing two nice pheasants, fry 
them on a brisk fixe in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, two ounces of fat bacon, a shred union, carrot, and 
half a head of celery, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
bay-leaf. When of a nice golden colour all over, moisten 
with a pint and a half of water, set to simmer for about 
thirty-five minutes, with the pan partly covered, taking 
care to frequently baste them with their own liquor, and 
to turn them over once. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 331 

In the meantime prepare a thick risotto, and when the 
pheasants are properly cooked place them on a hot dish, 
strain and skim off the fat from their liquor and add it to 
the risotto, stir this well together, and when ready dish it 
up, put the pheasants on the top, and serve with some 
good gravy in a sauce-hoat apart. 

663. PHEASANTS A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Select and draw two nice young pheasants; lard the 
breasts in the usual way with small strips of fat bacon ; 
wrap them in well-buttered paper, and set them to roast 
before a moderate fire for twenty-five minutes, taking 
special care to baste them frequently with clarified butter ; 
after which, remove the paper from the birds and roast 
them ten minutes longer ; baste again two or three times, 
and see that the strips of bacon do not colour too much. 
Meanwhile prepare some macaroni Italienne (No. 89), and 
when ready, and the pheasants are properly cooked, pour 
the macaroni over a dish, place the pheasants in the 
centre, and serve with some good gravy in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

Note. — In order to roast game to a nicety, attention and 
experience are required, as it is of the utmost importance 
that birds should be removed from the fire as soon as they 
are done. This is generally found to be the case when a 
certain amount of evaporation is emitted from the bird's 



664. PHEASANTS A LA MILANAISE. 
Pick, draw, and truss two pheasants for boiling, and 
braize them as for pheasants, housewife style. When 
done, put them on a dish and keep hot; add one pint 
of broth to the liquor in which the birds were braized, 
"boil this and pass it through n tammy, then skim off the 



332 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

fat, and put it in a stewpan with some of the liquor, two 
savoy cabhages each cut in four, the cores taken out, 
and previously blanched , for five minutes in boiling salt 
water, and half a pound each of Bologna sausage and 
streaky bacon ; season with salt, pepper, and a " bouquet 
garni ; " cover with a sheet of buttered paper, to prevent 
the cabbages colouring, simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour with the pan covered ; then remove the paper and 
" bouquet ; " squeeze the gravy out of the cabbage by 
pressing it in a colander ; cut the sausage and bacon into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick ; cut also the cabbage into 
small squares ; untie the pheasants and dish them up ; 
place alternately cabbage, sausage, and bacon around the 
pheasants, and serve with the remainder of the birds' 
liquor, previously reduced to a half-glaze, in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

665. BOAST PHEASANT STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES. 

Select two young and plump pheasants, and draw them, 
in the same way as a turkey. Peel two pounds of fresh 
truffles, cut them into small iilbert shaped-pieces, and put 
them in a stewpan; pound the trimmings in a mortar, 
with a quarter of a pound of chopped pickled cooked ox- 
tongue and the saflae quantity of fat bacon ; add this to the 
truffles with one pound of sausage-meat ; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg; set it to simmer for about ten 
minutes; stir frequently; then moisten it with a gill of 
either rum, Madeira, or broth ; mix well together, and let 
it cool. When properly set stuff the pheasants with it; 
sew up the vents and breast-skin ; truss them for roasting ; 
wrap in a sheet of paper and put them by in a small 
box or jar tightly shut, in a cool place for two or three 
days ; or better still, bury them (folded in the paper) a foot 
deep in the ground for the same number of days, when 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 333 

the truffles will have imparted their aroma and flavour, to 
the flesh of the birds. 

Three-quarters of an hour before serving, bring the birds 
out ; remove the paper ; lay on each breast a thin slice of 
fat bacon ; tie these round with twine, and set them to 
roast before an even fire for thirty-five minutes, freqiiently 
basting them. When done (see note on Pheasants h, la 
Napolitaine) remove the string, dish up the birds with 
good brown gravy, and serve with Bread sauce in a bDat 
apart. 

Note. — When pheasants are roasted without stuffing, 
serve then with seasoned watercress. 

666. BOUDINS AND QUENELLES OF PHEASANT. 

Follow the same directions as given for boudins of 
chicken a la Richelieu and quenelles k la Toulouse. 

667. SALMI OF PARTRIDGES. 

Roast for twenty minutes, let cool, and cut up two 
partridges as in salmi of pheasants. Pound the livet 
and trimmings of the birds in the usual way, and add them 
to the Salmis sauce (No. 199), together with half a pint 
of button champignons or fresh mushrooms nicely shred ; 
simmer and stir till the mush"rooms are done, then pour 
the sauce over the pieces of partridge, and warm the con- 
tents of the stewpan, gradually, by the side of the fire, with- 
out boiling ; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and then 
dish up the pieces in a pyramidal form, pour the sauce 
over, garnish with croutons fried in butter, and serve. 

668. STEWED PARTRIDGE WITH CABBAGE. 

After having picked, drawn, singed, and trussed two 
partridges, with the legs tucked in as for boiling, fry them 



334 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

to a nice colour all round in a saut6-pan with an ounce 
of butter. Cut a good cabbage (savoy preferred) into 
quarters and blanch it for five minutes ; then steep it in 
cold water, cut off the cores, press the water out, and put 
it in a stewpan with the partridges nicely imbedded in it ; 
season with a " bouquet garni," two medium carrots, two 
onions with two cloves stuck in each, salt and pepper to 
taste; moisten with enough broth to cover the cabbage, 
add half a pound of streaky bacon, and cover the whole 
with a buttered sheet of paper ; close the stewpan tightly, 
and set it to simmer for an hour and a half. When done 
take out the birds and bacon, and put them in the oven to 
keep hot ; remove the "bouquet garni " and onion ; put the 
cai'rots apart ; drain and press the cabbage in a colander, 
and lay it oii a dish ; untie the partridges and place them 
on the cabbage; cut the bacon in thin slices and the 
carrots in fancy shape, garnish the dish round alternately 
with them, and serve with some good brown gravy in a 
sauce-boat. 

669. BRAIZED PARTRIDGES A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Draw and truss two partridges as in No. 668 ; tie a thin 
slice of fat bacon on each breast; put them in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter, and fry them to a nice golden colour 
.ill ovei-; then moisten with a gill of essence of truffles 
(No. 170), the same quantity of Madeira, and three gills 
of good broth ; season with salt, pepper, and a " bouquet 
garni ;" lay a buttered sheet of paper over the pai-tridges, 
cover the stewpan, and boil and simmer gently for forty- 
five minutes. Meanwhile prepare a Financifere sauce 
(No. 187). When the birds are well braized, dish them 
up on a block of crumb of bread, previously cut six inches 
Jong by four inches wide and three inches thick, fried in 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 335 

butter as croiitons ; pour the half of the sauce over the 
partridges, put the remainder in a sauce-boat, and serve. 



670. ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Prepare and truss two young partridges as directed for 
roast pheasants (without stuffing) ; cover each bi'east 
with a thin slice of fat bacon, and tie these round with 
twine ; then set the birds to roast before a good even fire 
for about twenty minutes ; remove the string from the 
birds ; dish them up with a good brown gravy, garnish 
round with seasoned watercress, and serve. 



671. BOUDINS AND QUENELLES OF PARTRIDGES. 

For the preparation of boudins and quenelles of par- 
tridges, see Boudins and Quenelles of Chicken. 



672. ROAST GROUSE. 

Pick, draw, singe, and truss a brace of grouse as for 
roasting pheasants ; lay and tie a thin slice of fat bacon 
on the breast of each bird, and set them to roast before 
an even fire for twenty minutes. When done, dish the 
birds on a croiiton of bread (see Braized Partridges a la 
Perigueux) ; garnish with seasoned watercress, and serve 
with good gravy, Bread sauce, and fried bread-crumbs, in 
sauce-boats. 

673. ROAST BLACK-GAME. 

These should be prepared and trussed in the same 
manner as grouse, roasted for twenty minutes with a slice 
of fat bacon tied on the breast of each bird, and served 
with the same ingredients as in No. 672. 



336 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

674. ROAST SNIPE. 

Pick four snipe entirely, neck and head ; draw them, 
but reserve the trail and liver, which chop and fry in a 
stewpan with a little butter for five minutes, and keep 
hot. Twist the legs so as to bring the feet behind the 
thighs, and run the bill through the thighs and body. 
Put a noose of string round the joints, across the lower 
part of the breast,' bring both ends round, the head and 
tip of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the snipe 
with thin slices of fat bacon and tie these on with twine. 
Cut, toast, and butter four slices of bread, four inches 
long by two and a half wide, and half an inch thick ; set 
the birds to roast before a clear fire for eighteen minutes ; 
place the buttered toast under to receive the gravy from 
the birds, and baste frequently. When ready, remove the 
string, lay the fried trail and liver on the buttered toast, 
which will now be soaked with gravy, dish up the birds on 
these pieces of toast, and serve with a garnish of seasoned 
watercress and a sauce-boat of good gravy. 

675. SALMI OF SNIPE, 
Draw four snipe, reserving the trail and liver, and 
roast them for eighteen minutes, without running the bill 
through the body. When cooked and cold, cut them in 
two lengthwise ; remove the neck,* skin, and feet ; trim the 
halves, and put them in a saut6-pan. Pound the trimmings 
and bones in a mortar, and put the pur6e in a stewpan 
with two shalots, a " bouquet garni," two cloves, and half 
a bottle of claret ; boil and reduce it to one-half ; then add 
one and a half pint of Espagnole sauce. Simmer for 
half an hour, skim o£f the fat as it rises to the surface, 
strain the sauce through a tammy into a small stewpan, 
and reduce it again until it coats the spoon; pour this 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 337 

sauce over the birds to warm without boiling. Meanwhile 
chop the trail, &c., and fry them with a little butter in a 
small stewpan, seasoned with a little blanched and chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper. When the salmi is properly 
warmed, dish up the pieces, pour the sauce over them ; lay 
the trail mixture on eight crolitons of bread, and with 
these garnish round and serve. 

676. ROAST WOODCOCK. 

These are prepared, trussed, and roasted in the same 
manner as snipe. They are also very often roasted with- 
out being drawn at all, but should be given two minutes 
longer to cook, and then served with seasoned watercress 
and toast. 

677. ROAST PLOVER. 

Pick, draw, singe, and truss plover for roasting in tho 
same manner as pigeons (see No. 656), and serve them in 
the same style. 

Note. — Various kinds of big- winged game are sometimes 
served surrounded with small birds, such as roast pheasants, 
garnished with larks, quail, &c. ; in that case the pheasants 
are put in the centre of the dish on pieces of toast. 

678. ROAST QUAIL. 

Pick, draw, and truss the birds required as directed for 
pheasants ; lay on each a thin slice of fat bacon, large 
enough to cover it, fold a vine-leaf over each of these and 
tie them round the breast with twine ; fasten them to a 
spit, and set them to roast before a clear fire for ten or 
twelve minutes ; then remove the string, but leave the 
bacon ; dish them on crofttons fried in butter, garnish with 
seasoned watercress, and serve with gravy apart. 

Y 



338 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

679. QUAIL A LA JARDINIERE. 

Truss six quail as for braizing, put them in a stewpan, 
cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, moisten with a 
gill of Madeira and half a pint of good broth ; add a shred 
carrot, onion, and a "bouquet gaiui." Boil them; cover 
the pan and simmer for eighteen or twenty minutes; 
and meanwhile prepare a jardiniere as for fillet of beef 
Jardiniere (No. 950). "When the quail .are ready, pour the 
sauce on to a dish, garnish the centre with the birds, pour 
a few spoonfuls of half -glaze over the birds and jardiniere, 
and serve with a sauce-boat of half-glaze apart. 

680. ROAST LARKS. 

Cut as many thin pieces of toasted bread, two inches long 
by one inch and a half wide, as there "are larks ; cut also 
in a similar manner twice as many thin slices of fat bacon, 
and lay these on each side of the toast. Take the larks, 
cut off the heads and legs, and draw out the gizzards with 
the point of a small knife. Then run the larks, side by side 
on a thin skewer, putting a piece of toast with the slices 
of bacon between each bird ; tie both ends of th« skewer 
to the spit, and set them to roast before a clear fire for 
eight minutes, taking care to baste them. When done, 
dish them up alternately with the toast and, bacon, and 
serve with some good gravy in a sauce-boat apart. ' 

681, LARKS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Cut off the necks", legs, and pick out the gizzards of 
twelve larks, place them in a saute-pan previously spread 
with butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry them 
to a nice brown colour over a brisk fire. Then add half a 
pint of good gravy or broth, half a pound of nicely cut 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 339 

fresh mushrooms, set to simmer for five minutes, add the 
juice of a lemon and a little finely chopped parsley, toss 
up the contents, dish up the larks with some fried croutons, 
pour the mushrooms and sauce over, and serve. 

682. ROAST WHEATEARS. 

These small birds are generally plentiful along the 
south coasts of England, and are in season in August and 
September, when their condition is such as to resemble 
small lumps of butter. They are highly esteemed and con- 
sidered a great delicacy by epicures, and should be pre- 
pared and roasted in the same manner as larks, but I 
strongly recommend to be served with them polenta k la 
Napolitaine. 

683. ROAST WILD-DUCK, WIDGEON, TEAL, AND 
WATER-HEN. 

These wild-fowls are all drawn, trussed, and roasted in 
the same style as roast pheasants, before a clear fire for 
about a quarter of an hour, and then served with quarters 
of lemon, cayenne pepper, and gravy separately. 

684. SALMI OF WILD-DUCK. 
Pick, draw and roast a wild-duck for a quarter of an 
hour, as described in No. 683. When cold,- cut it into 
small joints ; take oflf the skin ; trim the pieces and put 
them in a stewpan ; put into another stewpan the trim- 
mings and bones with half a pint of claret, four shalots, a 
small "bouquet garni," an onion with three cloves stuck in 
it, two pinches of salt, and a small one of cayenne. Boil 
this down to half its quantity, then add one pint of Espag- 
nole sauce, and reduce it to a nice consistency, after which 
pass it through a tammy over the pieces of wild-duck; 



340 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

warm the salmis without boiling, squeeze the juice of half 
a lemon ; toss up the contents ; dish up the pieces of bird 
in the usual way, pour the sauce over, garnish round with 
crofttons fried in butter, and serve. 

685. WIDGEON, HOUSEWIFE'S STYLE. 
Roast two widgeon. When done, cut them in small 
joints and put in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of red-currant jelly, half a pint of port, and the juice 
of a lemon ; season with salt and cayenne pepper ; simmer 
with the pan partly covered for seven minutes ; then dish 
up, pour the sauce over, garnish with crofitons cut and 
fried in the usual way, and serve. 

686. SALMI OF WIDGEON OR TEAL. 

Pick, draw, and truss two of these birds for roasting ; 
place them in an earthen dish, strew some thinly-sliced 
carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf about them, 
season with salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a gill 
of salad oil; let them thus marinade for twelve hours, 
taking care to frequently turn them over. Twenty 
minutes before serving, run them upon a skewer, pla«e 
the vegetables, &c., upon their breasts, wrap in two sheets 
of oiled paper fastened on with twine, tie them on the 
spit at both ends, and set to roast before a clear fire for 
fifteen minutes. When cold, cut into small joints in the 
usual way ; put the trimmings, and the gravy that hag 
run into the pan from the birds, into a stewpan with 
four shalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, thyme, and 
bay-leaf, together with half a pint of claret and some 
mushroom trimmings ; season with salt and pepper ; boil 
for five minutes; then add half a pint of brown sauce 
or good broth ; stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 341 

then draw it by the side of the stove to clear itself ; skim 
it ; boil it again for ten minutes ; then pass it through a 
tammy sieve over the pieces of wild-fowl into a stewpan ; 
set them to warm without boiling. When ready, dish up 
in a pyramidal form, pour the sauce over, garnish round 
with fried croiitons, and serve. 



687. SALMI OF WATER-HEN. 

Draw, truss and roast before a brisk fire, for a quarter 
of an hour, two water-hens. Cut them in four, pound the 
trimmings and carcases, and put them into a stewpan with 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, an ounce of butter, half a 
pint of claret, salt, pepper, the peel of a lemon, and half a 
pint of good gravy, as well as the gravy dropped from the 
birds into the dish. Simmer the lot for half an hour; 
dish up the pieces of wild fowl in the usual way ; squeeze 
the juice of half a lemon into the sauce, pass this through 
a pointed strainer over the dished fowl, garnish with fried 
crofttons, and serve. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

HOT, AND COLD MEAT PIES — PUDDINGS- 
GALANTINES AND POTTED GAME. 

688. BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 

Cut two pounds of beefsteak (top side or thick flank) into 
scollops three inches long by two wide, and flatten these 
slightly with the cutlet bat. Cut also six sheep's kidneys, 
or the half of an ox-kidney, into slices a quarter of a:n inch 
thick; season the lot well with salt, pepper, and a little 
pounded aromatic herbs ; chop iine four chalots ; then 
make a layer with the meat and kidney at the bottom of 
an oval earthenware baking dish ; strew over some of the 
chopped shalots and the yolk of an egg boiled hard and 
cut in quarters, then another layer of steak, kidney, shalot, 
and egg ; and so on till the whole of it is used. Fill this 
up with good broth nearly to the level of the meat, and 
cover the whole with a thin layer of puff paste (No. 
318), previously made for that purpose, taking care first 
to pass a brush dipped in water over the border of the 
dish, and press the paste on this with the thumb. Make 
a vent-hole in the centre, cut the paste round the border, 
roll these trimmings together to the eighth of an inch, and 
cut it with a pastry-cutter into four or five small leaves or 
other fancy shapes, pass the brush, dipped in water again, 
on one side of these, and lay them flat around the hole in 
the centre ; gather the remainder of the paste, turn it into 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 343 

a rose, and place it loose over the vent ; then with a pastry- 
brush dipped in the yolk of an egg brush the paste slightly 
over, and set it to bake in a moderately-heated oven for an 
hour and three quarters' or two hours. When done, remove 
the pastry rose from the vent-hole and pour in through it, 
with the help of a funnel, one or two gills of good hot broth 
or gravy; replace the rose and serve the pie, or put it by 
to be served cold. 

Note. — -Mushroom or truffle trimmings intermixed with 
the steak will greatly improve this pie. 



689. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PIE. 

Proceed to cut and season two pounds of beefsteak as 
in the previous number, and substitute two dozen oysters 
for the kidney, but these should first be blanched and 
bearded and their liquor added to the broth ; then cover 
with puff paste as the foregoing. Bake in the same style, 
and serve. 

690. VEAL AND HAM PIE. 

Cut two pounds of cushion of veal into thin scollops, after 
having been freed from skin and sinew ; flatten these with 
the cutlet bat and lay them flat on the table, and spread on 
each some sausage fneat the size of a large walnut. Season 
with salt and pepper and pounded aromatic herbs, lay over 
each scollop a thin slice of either cooked ham, gammon, or 
lean bacon, free from rind and gristle; twist these round 
with the ham inside, and arrange nicely in an earthen- 
ware baking-dish ; fill up nearly to the level of 'the meat 
with good stock, cover the dish with a puff paste, in the 
same manner as beefsteak and kidney pie, and set it to 
bake for about two hours. When ready, add some more 
hot broth through the vent-hole, and put by till wanted. 



344 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD, COOKERY. 

691, MUTTON PIE. 

Remove the scrag and spine-bone from a neck of mutton ; 
shorten the ribs to about three inches ; cut the neck into' 
neat cutlets ; pare off the superfluous fat ; put the whole 
of the trimmings into a stewpan with a pint and a half of 
water ; season with salt, and boil for half an hour, taking 
care to skim the broth in the usual way. Meanwhile 
season the cutlets with salt and pepper, place them in a 
circular form in a large pie-dish, and garnish the centre 
with potatoes turned into small egg shapes. When the 
broth is ready, strain it and skim off the fat, pour it over 
the potatoes in the pie-dish, strew over them a teaspoonful 
of finely-chopped parsley; cover the pie-dish with puff 
paste, as in beefsteak and kidney pie ; set it to bake in 
a moderate oven for an hour and three quarters ; then add 
a little more broth, and serve. 

Note. — This pie should be eaten hot. 

692. PIGEON PIE. 

Draw and singe three young pigeons ; cut oft the feet 
and put them by ; cut the pigeons in four ; season each 
piece with salt and pepper ; cut also one pound of rump- 
steak into small scollops ; beat them with the cutlet bat ; 
season these also with salt and pepper, then with one- 
third make a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish. Place 
six quarters of pigeons over them, intermixed with as many 
halves of yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and the pigeons' livers, 
then a layer of scollops of beef, then the other half of the 
pigeons and eggs; finish with the remainder of the beef 
scollops ; add the necessary quantity of hot broth or good 
stock ; cover the dish with puff paste in the usual way (see 
No. 318); imbed the feet of the pigeons in the top of the 
paste, so as to leave the claws out in a symmetrical form, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 345 

and bake for about an hour and a half. When done, add 
some more broth to the pie, and put it aside till wanted. 

Note. — Mushroom trimmings, finely chopped with a little 
parsley, will improve this pie. 

693. CHICKEN PIE. 

Draw, singe, and cut two chickens into small joints ; 
trim these nicely and put the backs aside, to be used for 
soup or essence of chicken. Out half a pound of cushion 
of veal into small scollops, flatten these slightly with the 
cutlet bat ; cut also half a pound of lean bacon into thin 
slices ; cover the bottom of a pie-dish alternately with veal 
and bacon ; season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped 
parsley ; lay on these the half of the pieces of chicken with 
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs out in two and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley ; add another layer 
of veal and bacon ; repeat the seasoning ; lay on these, in a 
similar order, the remainder of the chicken ; season again 
and finish with a few slices of laacon, properly trimmed and 
laid on the top. Moisten two-thirds full with good stock 
and half a gill of mushroom ketchup ; cover the lot in the 
usual way with puff paste (see No. 3 1 8). Bake in a moder- 
ately-heated oven for about an hour and a half. When 
ready, replenish the gravy through the vent-hole, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

694. GIBLET PIE. 

This pie should be made with two sets of either goose or 
turkey giblets. Put the liver apart, blanch the giblets for 
about two minutes in boiling water, immerse them in cold, 
and drain them on a cloth ; then cut them inta pieces 
two inches long, and put in a stewpan with a carrot, an 
onion stuck with four cloves, a "bouquet gariii," and 
season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a quart of 



346 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

stock, and simmer gently for about an hour ; then remove 
the " bouquet garni," carrot, and onion ; strain the gravy 
through a strainer into a small stewpan ; drain the giblets 
upon a cloth; skim off all the fat from the gravy, and 
boil it over a brisk fire for about a quarter of an hour. 
Meanwhile, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with scollops of 
beefsteak, well flattened with the cutlet bat, and season 
with salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, sweet basil, and 
two chalots. Add the giblets in neat order, together with 
the liver, previously set apart ; sprinkle over it some fine 
herbs, and a small pinch of cayenne; moisten with the 
reduced gravy ; cover the lot with puff paste (see No. 318), 
bake it for an hour and a half, and serve. 



695. RABBIT PIE. 

Skin, empty, and clean thoroughly a nice young rabbit, 
and cut it into small joints as for rabbit stewed k la 
Chasseur. Trim these pieces nicely, leaving as little bone 
as possible to them ; put the trimmings into a stewpan with 
the head and neck cut in half ; add a pint and a half of 
good stock, an onion stuck with four cloves, a " bouquet 
•garni," a piece of rind of bacon, and any trimmings of veal 
that may be had. Season with salt and pepper ; boil, skim, 
and simmer for half an hour. Meanwhile place the pieces 
of rabbit in a pie-dish, well intermixed with half a pound 
of streaky bacon free from rind and gristle, previously 
blanched for five minutes and cut into inch-dices. Season 
the lot well with four chopped shalots, parsley, fine herbs, 
and salt and pepper ; when the stock is ready, strain it 
through a cloth over the rabbit. Cover the pie-dish with 
puff paste in the usual way (see No. 318), and bake for an 
hour and a half ; then serve, or put it in a cool place till 
\'-anted. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 3_i7 

696, LARK PIE. 

Pick, singe, clean, and draw two dozen larks as for 
roast larks (No. 680). Cut off the heads, wings, and legs 
and put them aside; cut in small scollops one pound of 
cushion of veal, and half a pound of lean bacon, free from 
rind and gristle ; lay alternately one-third of these slices 
at the bottom of the pie-dish ; put on them twelve larks, 
close together, spread the half of two finely-chopped shalots, 
a little parsley, and thyme. Season with salt and a pinch 
of cayenne ; make another layer with one-third of the 
scollops; put on these the other twelve larks, then another 
layer of ingredients and seasoning, then lay upon the birds 
the remainder of the veal and bacon ; fill up the dish two- 
thirds full with good stock or gravy. Cover the lot with 
puff paste. Bake in a moderately-heated oven for about 
an hour and a half, replenish the gravy in the usual way, 
and put it by till wanted. 

Note. — Two or three fresh mushrooms finely chopped, 
and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters and 
properly spread with the seasoning, will improve this pie. 
Any other small birds can also be made into a similar pie. 

697. PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Pick, draw, and singe three partridges ; cut off the feet 
and wings; cut the partridges into small joints, cover the 
bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin layers of fat bacon, 
place the pieces of pai-tridges in close order on these; 
season well with salt, pepper, and aromatic herbs ; lay upon 
these six small scollops of fillet of beef, well flattened and 
seasoned, make another layer with slices of fat bacon; soak 
the whole with game or ordinary broth flavoured with 
essence of game. Cover the dish with puff paste in the 
usual way (see No. 318). Dig the feet into the top of the 



348 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

paste in decorative style ; bake it in a moderately-heated 
oven for one hour and a half, add a little more hot broth 
through the vent-hole, and serve. 

Note. — Blackgame, pheasants, grouse, quail, or any other 
winged game can be made into a similar pie. 

698. SNIPE PIE. 

!l?ick and singe three snipe as pieviously described. Cut 
off the heads, wings, and legs ; cut the birds into fours ; 
remove the gizzards, but leave the trail; then cover the 
lining of a pie-dish with thin slices of fat bacon ; place the 
pieces of snipe in close layers on these slices ; season well 
with aromatic herbs, salt, and pepper ; squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon, pour a sufficient quantity of melted clarified 
butter into the dish to cover the birds, and put another 
layer of fat bacon on the top. Cover the dish with pufiE 
paste (see No. 318). Bury the feet of the birds on the top 
of the paste in a symmetrical form. Bake the pie in a 
moderately-heated oven for one hour and a half, and keep 
it in a cool place till wanted. 

Note. — Woodcock, widgeon, and teal can be made into a' 
similar pie. 

699. GAME PIE IN MOULD. 

For pies in moulds a short paste (No. 790) is substituted 
for puil paste, and this should be made first. Skin and 
draw a hare ; save the blood, remove the two fillets from 
each side of the spine, and out these into strips half an inch 
thick and put them aside on a plate ; bone the remainder 
of the hare ; put the bones, head, and neck into a stewpan, 
after having split the two latter in halves; pare off one 
pound of cushion of veal from skin, gristle, and sinew ; put 
the trimmings in the stewpan with the bones of hare; 
remove also the rind of one pound of fat bacon ; put this 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 349 

aside, add the rind to the stewpan, together with a boned 
calf's foot cut in pieces, a "bouquet garni," one onion with 
four cloves stuck in it, and moisten with three pints of 
stock ; season with salt and pepper ; boil ; skim the broth 
in the usual way and simmer for about an hour, meanwhile 
chop up the pieces of boned hare, veal, and half the 
quantity of the fat bacon, previously freed from rind ; pass 
them through the sausage machine, taking care to add the 
blood of the hare whilst grinding the meat. When done 
lay the forcemeat on a dish and season it well with allspice ; 
and cut the remainder of the fat bacon into strips the 
same size as the fillets of hare. Take an eight-inch oval 
pie-mould, butter the inside, and line it at the bottom 
and round the sides, half an inch above the top of the 
mould, with short paste, previously made for that purpose 
and rolled to an even thickness about the third of an inch ; 
lay some of the forcemeat at the bottom of the mould, 
then three or four' strips each of bacon and fillet of hare, 
nicely intermixed and laid lengthwise, then another layer of 
forcemeat and strips, and finish with a layer of forcemeat. 
When the broth has boiled its proper time, and is well 
reduced, strain it through a cloth and pour about three 
quarters of a pint of it into the pie, making at the same 
time a few holes in the forcemeat with a trussing needle ; 
lay a bay-leaf on the top ; cover the pie with short paste, 
having previously moistened the border of the mould with 
water, then press the two together between the thumb 
and finger to form the edge. Cut the superfluous paste 
even with the mould, and pinch round again ; roll out the 
remaining paste, cut it of the same shape as the top of the 
pie, to make a second cover ; moisten the first with a brush 
dipped in water, and lay this second cover over it ; brush 
over the top with the yolk of a beaten egg, then with a 
pointed knife cut a round hole half an inch wide in the 



350 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

centre, and, cover it with a loose piece of paste. Set it in 
a well-heated oven to bake for about two hours and a half, 
but should the oven be too fierce, cover the pie with a sheet 
of buttered paper to prevent the crust getting too brown. 

Note. — A pound or two of truffles cut in quarters and 
properly mixed with the forcemeat will greatly improve 
the flavour of this pie. The ilesh of a boned rabbit can 
also be substituted for veal, and any kind of boned winged 
game can likewise be added to the pie. 



700. PORK PIE IN MOULD. 

Make about two pounds of short paste (No. 790), roll it 
up, and put aside till wanted. Cut two pounds of griskin 
of pork in slices, season these with chopped onion, sage, 
thyme, salt and pepper, and put them on a dish ; cut also 
two pounds of streaky bacon, free from rind and gristle 
(previously boiled for ten minutes) in slices, and prit them 
with the pork ; to these add three pounds of good apple-s, 
which, when peeled and the cores taken out, must be cut 
in thick slices and put on a plate j take a tin mould, about 
three inches deep, butter it and line the inside with the 
short paste, previously made and rolled out to an even 
thickness about the third of an inch ; arrange the bacon, 
apples, and pork in this, in alternate layers, till the whole 
is used up. Moisten 'the border round the mould with 
water ; cover the pie with the remaining paste ; press the 
two borders together round the edges with the thumb and 
finger, trim it, and make a small round hole in the centre, 
cover it with a piece of loose paste ; egg the top of the pie 
with a brush, and set it to bake in a moderately-heated oven 
for two hours and a half, and serve hot. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 351 

701. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PUDDING. 

Chop fine half a pound of beef suet, and mix it with a 
pound of sifted flour on the slab ; gather this together with 
the hands, make a hole in the centre to receive a teaspoonful 
of salt and about a gill of water. Mix and work this well 
together to a stiffish paste, using a little more water if 
necessary, and a little more flour to dry it, then with it line 
a pudding basin previously buttered, keeping enough paste 
apart to cover it. Fill the basin with beefsteak and oysters 
similarly prepared as in No. 689, but with only half the 
quantity of broth. When the pudding is filled, wet the 
edges of the paste round the top of the basin with a paste ■ 
brush dipped in water, and cover with the remaining suet 
paste rolled out to the size of the top of the basin ; press this 
down all round the edge with the thumb, and twist the 
edges of the paste over so as to give it a corded appeai-- 
ance ; tie the basin in a pudding-cloth, and boil in enough 
water for about two hours and a half, taking care that 
the water always covers the pudding; then take it out, 
untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on a dish, lift the 
basin carefully without breaking the paste, pour some good 
gravy under, and serve. 

702. BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Proceed with the paste as in the previous number, fill 
the pudding basin with scollops of beefsteak and kidneys 
properly seasoned as for No. 688 ; moisten with a gill 
of broth; cover the basin as in the foregoing, then boil 
for two hours and a half, taking care that the water always 
covers the basin, and serve. 

703. MUTTON PUDDING. 

Line a basin with paste, made as for beefsteak and 
oyster pudding Prepare some mutton as for mutton 



352 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pie (No. 691), or if preferred, cut part of a leg of mutton into 
thick scollops ; season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
shalots, and thyme ; make a layer of meat and one of sliced 
potatoes ; moisten with a little mutton broth if possible ; 
cover the basin as before, tie in a pudding-cloth, and let 
boil, with enough water to cover the basin, for two hours 
and a half or three , hours ; then turn the pudding over a 
dish, pour some good gravy under, and serve. 

704. SMALL-BIRD PUDDING. 

Any kind of small birds, such as larks, sparrows, wheatears, 
&c., &c., can be used for this pudding. Pick three dozen 
birds, clean, cut off the heads and feet and draw the 
gizzards ; cut also half a pound of streaky bacon in small 
dice, -free from rind. Line a pudding basin, previously 
buttered, with paste made as for beefsteak and oyster 
pudding ; put in it a layer of birds and bacon alternately ; 
season with pepper, chopped parsley, shalots, a little grated 
nutmeg, and s.ilt ; make another layer of birds, bacon, and 
seasoning till all are used; moisten with a gill of good 
broth, cover the basin with paste as previously described, 
tie it round with a pudding cloth, and boil two hours and 
a half ; when ready remove the cloth, turn "the basin over 
a dish, remove it carefully without breaking the paste, and 
serve with some good gravy poured under. 

705. GALANTINE OF VEAL AND HAM. 
Procure a breast of nice white veal ; bone ft, and remove 
all superfluous fat and skin; lay it flat on the table, inside 
upwards. Make nine small incisions across this, without, 
however, cutting through the flesh ; make three pounds of 
sausage meat, spread this on a dish ; cut into small dice 
one pound each of cooked ham and ox-tongue, and half a 
pound of fat bacon; put these into the sausage meat. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 353 

Skin two ounces of pistachio kernels, after having been 
scalded, and add them to the sausage meat. Season with 
salt, pepper, and allspice. Mix the lot well together with 
the hands, then spread this forcemeat on the veal and 
roll it tight; butter a pudding-cloth, place the veal on 
it, and roll up again very tight ; fasten at each end with 
string, thus giving it the appearance of a cushion ; put it 
in an oval stewpan, with the bones chopped up and the 
trimmings of veal, two calf's feet in halves, one carrot, 
one onion with four cloves stuck in it, and a " bouquet 
garni ; " season with salt, two dozen peppercorns, and two 
blades of mace. Cover the galantine well with water, boil 
it, and simmer very gently for about three hours ; then 
draw the stewpan away from the fire, and let the galantine 
partially cool in its liquor for three quarters of an hour ; 
after which drain and remove the cloth, wash this clean 
in hot water, and tie up the galantine again as before, and 
put it on a baking-sheet to be pressed, with a piece of 
board or dish and a seven-pound weight on the top, for at 
least a couple of hours. Meanwhile strain the broth, 
skim off all the grease, reduce by a sharp boiling, clarify 
most carefully, and pass through a jelly-bag or fine cloth 
into a pan, and put it in a cool place to set firm into 
aspic jelly. When the galantine has been properly pressed, 
take it out of the cloth, put in front of the open oven 
for two minutes to melt the fat, which must be wiped off 
with a clean dry cloth ; then glaze the galantine as previ- 
ously described for glazing ox-tongues. Put it on a cold 
dish, garnish round with the aspic jelly, cut in fancy shape 
a few sprigs of dried parsley, and serve. 

706. GALANTINE OF CHICKEN. 
Pick, singe, draw, and bone completely a fine and large 
Surrey chicken, draw inside the skin from the legs and 



354 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pinions, and spread the chicken out on the table ; cut off 
part of the fillets to cover the thinner parts of the skin ; 
season with salt, pepper, and allspice. Chop up fine one 
pound each of lean veal and fat bacon, both free from 
skin and gristle. Season with nutmeg, salt, pepper, and 
aromatic herbs, and pound it in a mortar with the yolks 
of two eggs and the peel of a pound and a half of truffles, 
and put it in a basin. Cut in half-inch dice half a pound 
each of cooked ox-tongue and fat bacon, add these to the 
forcemeat, together with the truffles, previously peeled, 
also cut in dice. Mix the lot well together with the 
hands ; then spread it on the chicken ; twist this round, 
sew it up with a trussing-needle and twine, and roll it 
tight in a well-buttered cloth, which must be fastened at 
each end with string, in a similar way as galantine of 
veal and ham ; then place it in an oval stewpan, with 
the bones of the chicken and trimmings of veal, &c., as 
well as two calf's feet cut in two, one carrot, one onion 
stuck with four cloves, a " bouquet garni," two blades of 
mace, and twelve peppercorns. Moisten with a gill of 
brandy and enough white stock to cover the galantine; 
boil and simmer gently for two hours, and then proceed in 
eveiy respect as for galantine of veal and ham. 

jS/'ote. — Galantines of turkey and pheasant are made in 
the same way. 

707. POTTED HARE. 

Procure an earthenware pan, with cover, of about seven 
inches in diameter. Skin, empty, and bone entirely a nice 
hare ; reserve the blood to mix with the forcemeat. Chop 
up two pounds of streaky bacon with half of the flesh from 
the- legs and shoulders of the hare, all free from sinew, 
gristle and rind, season well with allspice, pound it in a 
mortar, adding the blood whilst pounding. Lard the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 355 

fillets of the hare with small strips of bacon, cut these 
fillets across ; season with allspice, and fry them with the 
remaining part of the hare in a saute-pan with an ounce 
of butter for about ten minutes in order to dry the 
moisture contained in the hare ; then put a layer of the 
forcemeat one inch thick in the earthenware pan ; lay on 
this one half of the hare's flesh, another layer of forcemeat, 
the other half of the hare, and the remaining forcemeat ; 
cover with thin slices of fat bacon, put the cover on the 
pan, and place it in a large stewpan with three inches of 
boiling water, cook in a hot oven for three hours, and 
when cold, cover the potted meat with melted fat or 
clarified butter and put by in a cool place, when it will 
keep fresh for months. 

Note. — Pheasants, partridges, larks, and rabbits can be 
potted in the same way. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

REMARKS ON VEGETABLES. 

England is not so rich in vegetables as she is in other 
products and necessaries of life, as there are several kinds 
quite unknown in this country which are highly esteemed 
abroad, such as cardoons, goat's-beard or viper's grass, 
blite, mad-apple, &c. ; whUst sorrel and artichokes are but 
slightly cultivated. Potatoes, as a matter of course, hold 
the leading position amongst vegetables. What could we 
do without potatoes 1 They were, however, quite unknown 
in Europe three centuries ago, having been imported from 
South America (according to some authorities) in 1586 by 
Sir Francis Drake; but their general introduction dates 
only from 1592. There is no vegetable — in fact, eggs and. 
rice excepted, there. is nothing in the world that can be 
cooked and dressed in so many different ways as potatoes. 
Some two hundred styles, I believe, have been attained. 
This reminds me of a dinner I provided at the St. James' 
Hall in 1876 to some forty Irish members of Parliament, 
which I hope may not be out of place if related here. 

In taking the order from Major O'Gorman (whom I 
had the pleasure of knowing well), I had strongly im- 
pressed upon me the necessity of having plenty of potatoes 
for that dinner, as they were all Irish gentlemen, and very 
fond of them. I promised to comply with his wishes, and 
on the day and time appointed the dinner was duly served 

with ten different styles of cooked potatoes. These were 

356 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 357 

passed round in the usual way, with the entries, when 
Major O'Gorman, who was in the chair (a good strong one, 
as he weighed about twenty stone), summoned me to his 
presence and complained in very strong terms that no 
potatoes could be had. " Major ! " said I, " there must be 
some mistake, as you all seem pretty well supplied with 
them ; you have actually three sorts on your plate, and 
to all appearance are enjoying them ! " The poor Major 
was quite amazed to see that they were all partaking of 
potatoes without knowing it. Recovering, however, from 
liis surprise, he at once ordered plenty of boiled potatoes, 
but that did not prevent his being chafiEed about his mis- 
take for a long time afterwards. 

708. BOILED POTATOES. 

Potatoes are boiled either with the skin on or off. The 
former is the best. Wash off the dirt by scrubbing with 
a hard brush, and rinse them well ; put into a sauce- 
pan with enough cold water to cover them, and a teaspoon- 
f ul of salt for every quart of water ; boil till the potatoes 
are nearly done, which can be ascertained by inserting a 
trussing-needle into one or two of them ; then drain off 
the water, cover the stewpan, and place it by the side of 
the fire for about five minutes, when the steam and moisture 
will evaporate and the potatoes get floury; then peel as 
quickly as possible, and serve. 

Note. — Potatoes will generally require boiling for a quarter 
of an hour, but in some instances a longer time is necessary. 
In all cases they should be served as soon as cooked, 

709. POTATO PUR^E. 

See No. 231. 



358 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

710. POTATOES A LA MAfTRE D'H6tEL, 

Boil two pounds of potatoes gently so as not to break 
them, then peel and cut them in slices, a quarter of an inch 
thick ; put these in a stewpan with half a pound of maltre 
d'h6tel butter (No. 226), half a pint of white broth, and a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Mix the lot well by 
tossing the pan over the fire ; squeeze over them the juice 
of a lemon, and serve. 

711. POTATOES WITH CREAM. 
Boil, peel, and cut in slices two pounds of potatoes "as in' 
No. 710; put them in a stewpan with one pint of cream 
or milk, simmer for ten minutes ; then add one ounce of 
butter if cream, but it milk two ounces, divided in seven 
or eight pieces ; add a pinch of salt and a little nutmeg ; 
toss till the butter is well melted, and serve. 

712. POTATOES SAUTJ^ES. 

These are prepared either with raw or cooked potatoes ; 
the latter style is the most in use. Any cold boiled 
potatoes left from the previous day are cut in slices and 
browned to a nice golden cdlour with fresh butter, either 
in a saute or frying-pan ; season with salt, pepper, and a 
little chopped parsley, and serve. 

713. POTATOES SAUT]SeS A LA LYONNAISE. 

Cut some potatoes in slices as above, say two pounds; 
melt three ounces of fresh butter in a clean frying-pan, 
in which fry three finely sliced onions to a brown colour ; 
then add the potatoes and toss them now and then, till 
they' are of a nice brown; season with salt, pepper and 
half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 359 

little good gravy if bandy, mix well together, and serve 
very hot. 



714. POTATOES SAUT^ES A L'lTALIENNE. 

Peel and cut in oval slices, the thickness of a crown 
piece, two pounds of nice raw Regent potatoes ; fry 
these gently on a moderate fire in a saut^-pan with three 
ounces of clarified butter to a nice golden colour, then 
drain the butter into a saucepan containing half a pint 
of hot tomato sauce. Glaze the potatoes with half a pint 
of good gravy, and dress them in pyramid form on a dish ; 
squeeze the juice of a lemon in the tomato sauce, pour it 
over the potatoes, and serve. 

715. POTATOES A LA BECHAMEL. 

Peel, cut, fry, and glaze two pounds of potatoes as in 
No. 714; then cover them, when dished up, with half a pint 
of good Bechamel sauce, and serve. 

716. POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Prepare two pounds of potatoes as in No. 715, mnsk 
them in the same way with Bechamel sauce, sprinkle over 
them two ounces of grated cheese and a tablespoonful of 
raspings, then add an ounce of fresh butter divided into 
five parts, with a pinch of grated nutmeg ; place the dish 
in a moderately-heated oven till it has attained a golden 
colour, and serve. 

717. POTATOES A LA SAVOISIENNE. 

Boil two pounds of potatoes for fifteen minutes ; peel and 
cut them into thin slices ; make a layer with these in a 
deep gra^in-dish ; sprinkle on it a tablespoonful of grated 



36o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cheese, a few pieces of butter, and a gill of good gravy. 
Repeat the layer of potatoes and so 'on ; then cover the 
whole with ar quart of cream reduced to half, by boiling ; 
season with a pinch of powdered cinnamon ; place the dish 
in the oven to bake, and when of a nice brown all over, 
serve. 

718. POTATOES A LA PROVENgALE. 

Boil in their skins two pounds of potatoes for fifteen 
minutes. Meanwhile chop fine an onion, a clove of garlic, 
a few sprigs of parsley, and a few fresh mushrooms. Try 
these in a saut6-pan with a gill of salad-oil and an ounce 
of butter to a nice brown colour. When the potatoes are 
properly cooked, peel and cut them in thin slices ; add three 
boned and chopped anchovies to the stewpan ; stir the con- 
tents, then add the potatoes ; toss them well together, 
simmer for eight or ten minutes, and squeeze the juice of 
half a. lemon before serving. 

719. POTATOES A LA BEAUFORT. 

Select two^ pounds of nice even round potatoes ; peel 
them, and with a round vegetable-scoop make a hole the 
size of a cork, two-thirds deep, in the centre of each. Fill 
these up with either cooked veal or beef nicely chopped, 
and properly seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; add a piece of butter as big as a Windsor bean on 
the top of each ; place the potatoes with the meat up side 
by side on a baking-sheet; moisten with good gravy or broth. 
Cover the potatoes with a buttered sheet of paper, and set 
them to bake in a moderately heated oven till cooked, 
taking care to baste them two or three times during that 
time. When done, ^erve with the remainder of the gravy 
in a sauce-boat apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 361 

720. POTATO CROQUETS. 

Boil two pounds of peeled potatoes in the usual way (see 
No. 708). When cooked, rub them through a wire sieve 
into a stewpan ; add one ounce of butter and the yolks of 
two eggs properly beaten. Work this well together with a 
wooden spoon ; then sprinkle a paste-board with flour ; 
divide the purde in equal parts, roll these on the board to 
the shape of corks, dip them in egg, bread-crumb, and fry 
them in hot fat to a golden colour, and serve. 

721. POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE. 

Prepai'e some mashed potatoes as in the previous number. 
Sprinkle a psiste-board with flour ; shape the pur6e on it 
in oval cakes two inches long by one and a half wide and 
one inch thick ; then fry them in clarified butter ; drain 
them on a cloth, and serve. 

722. FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel one pound of potatoes, cut these in half-inch slices 
and then in quarter-inch strips ; dry them in a cloth 
and fry in boiling fat over a brisk fire for about twelve 
minutes, giving an occasional stir with the frying-basket 
to secure an even cooking and prevent them adhering to 
one another. When of a nice golden colour, drain them on 
a clean cloth by twisting and shaking them over; then 
sprinkle with salt, dish up, and serve. 

723. CHIPPED POTATOES, FRIED. 

After having peeled one pound of potatoes, cut them in 
very thin slices, say the sixteenth of an inch, and dry in 
a cloth ; then fry them in hot fat over a brisk fire for 
about ten minutes, taking care to stir occasionally with the 



362 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

frying-basket, to secure an even colouring ; drain on a cloth, 
sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

724u FRIED POTATOES, FAILLE. 

Peel and slice one pound- of potatoes as above, then cut 
these in shreds the size of straws, dry, and fry in hot fat 
for about seven minutes. When of a nice golden colour, 
drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

Note. — This style is generally served with roast game. 

725. FRIED POTATOES SOUFFL^ ES. 

Peel one and a half pound of kidney potatoes to the 
shape of an egg, and slice them lengthwise to an eighth of 
an inch thick, taking care to have all of the same size; 
dry in the usual way and fry in hot fat for six minutes ; 
then gather them in the frying-basket, and drain arid 
cool by the side of the stove ; keep the fat on the fire 
to increase the temperature by a few degrees, and when 
the potatoes are quite cold, throw them in the fat again 
for five minutes to complete the cooking, when the reaction 
of the heat will cause them to 'swell like eggs. This being 
attained, drain them quickly over a clean cloth, sprinkle 
with salt, and serve at once. 

726. POTATO SOUFFL]^. 

Wash and bake in their skins a pound of potatoes : this 
will take about three-quarters of an hour if the oven is 
well heated. When soft, squeeze them over a wire sieve 
and rub through with a wooden spoon into a large 
basin. Put into a stewpan a gill of milk with an ounce of 
butter; bring this to boil, giving it an occasional stir; 
season slightly with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg; then draw the pan awny from the &ee, add its 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 363 

contents gradually to the yolks of four eggs properly beaten, 
stirring the while. When the liaison is made, mix it well 
with the mashed potatoes; whisk the whites of the four 
eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the mashed potatoes, and stir 
it into the mixture. Pour the whole into a well -buttered 
souffle or pie dish ; set it to bake in a well-heated oven for 
about twelve minutes, when it will have risen and become 
of a golden colour, then serve. 

727. NEW POTATOES WITH BDTTER. 

Wash and scrape two pounds of small new potatoes (.as 
much as possible of the same size). Put them in a stewpan 
with a teaspoonful of salt and enough cold water to cover 
them. Set them to boil two minutes only ; then drain off 
the water and dry them on a cloth. Melt three ounces 
of fresh butter in a sautd-pan, add the potatoes, and simmer 
on a good fire for about twenty minutes, taking care to 
often toss them, in order to give them an even colour all 
round. When properly done, sprinkle some salt and a tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, dish up, and servo. 

728. PLAIN BOILED CABBAGE. 

Trim off the outer leaves of a cabbage, divide it in four, 
soak these in cold water for an hour with a handful of salt ; 
when well washed, drain and squeeze the water out of them, 
cut off the stalks, and throw the cabbage into boiling water 
with a tablespoonful of salt. When properly cooked, pour 
them into a colander, drain the water out by pressing the 
cabbage with a small plate, and serve. 

729, CABBAGE, COUNTRY STYLE. 

Trim off, divide, clean, and blanch for five minutes a 
cabbage as described in No. 728; then squeeze the water 



364 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

out and put the cabbage in a stewpan. Moisten with good 
broth, season with salt and pepper, then cover with a layer 
of bacon cut in thin slices and a buttered sheet of paper on 
the top. Boil with the stewpan covered for twenty minutes, 
"then stand in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

730. STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Pick out all the nice leaves of a big savoy cabbage; 
wash these well and blanch them in boiling salt water for 
five minutes, then drain and wipe them dry, lay them flat 
on the table in the form of a ten-inch square. Chop up in 
small dice one pound of cooked veal and a quarter of a 
pound of cooked ham, and mince very fine a clove of garlic ; 
then mix these with haK a pound of plain boiled rice, 
season with salt and pepper, and put the mixture in the 
centre of the cabbage-leaves ; fold these up and tie them 
well all round with string. Boil in the stock-pot for 
twenty minutes, then put it on a baking-dish, moisten with 
a little gravy, and set it in a hot oven for ten minutes. 
When nicely browned remove the string and serve with 
some gravy in a sauce-boat. 

731. BOILED CAULIFLOWER. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Pare off the coarse outer leaves of two medium cauli- 
flowers, cut the stalks aiid pare away the tough skin round 
it, throw these in a basin of cold water, adding half a gill 
of vinegar, in order to draw out any caterpillar or insect 
that may be in them, then plunge them in boiling water 
with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for twelve or fifteen 
minutes according to size. When the cauliflowers are 
done, which can be ascertained by pressing a small piece 
between the fingers ; if this should give way easily to the 
pressure, although still retaining a certain firmness, they 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 365 

must be taken off from the fire, carefully removed with a 
slice and drained on a sieve, then dished up and served 
with Butter sauce (No. 157). 

732. FRIED CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim, wash, and boil two cauliflowers as in No. 731, 
then drain and cut them into pieces. Melt two ounces of 
fresh butter in a frying-pan, add the pieces of cauliflower, 
season with salt and pepper, and fry to a nice brown all 
round, taking care to toss them, in order to prevent burn- 
ing ; then dish up, and serve. 

733, FRIED CAULIFLOWER WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Prepare and fry the cauliflowers as above ; when of a 
nice brown, sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan 
cheese, toss and dish up the cauhflower; warm a gill of 
good gravy in the same frying-pan, pour it over the cauli- 
flower, and serve. 

734. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Boil two cauliflowers as in No. 731. Meanwhile put 
one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a stewpan, 
stir over the fire for three minutes, then add one pint of 
water or white stock; season with salt and pepper; boil 
for ten miautes, stirring the while, then draw by the side 
of the fire. When the cauliflowers are done and drained, 
cut them in pieces. Grate one ounce and a half each of 
parmesan and Gruyfere cheese and mix it well together; 
put a layer of cauliflower at the bottom of a gratin-dish, 
then a layer with one-third of the grated cheese and a layer 
of sauce ; pile up the remaining cauliflower on the top ; 
cover with another third of cheese and the sauce, sprinkle 
the third part of the cheese over the sauce, and add a 



366 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tablespoonful of raspings. Baste with an ounce of melted 
fresh butter, and set the dish to bake in a hot oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile put the salamander 
in the fire to be made red hot, pass this over the top of the 
cauliflower to give a light brown colour, and serve. 



735. CAULIFLOWER A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare and boil two nice cauliflowers as previously de- 
scribed, fry in butter ; dish them up and pour half a pint 
of Genoise sauce over them (No. 207), to which four boned 
and chopped anchovies have been added, and serve. 

736. CAULIFLOWER A LA BECHAMEL. 

Trim, wash, boil, and fry in butter two cauliflowers 
as above; dish them up and pour over some Bdchamel 
sauce (No. 154), and serve. 

737. BOILED BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Select one pound of - light-green and hard Brussels 
sprouts, cut the stalks and pare off the outside leaves ; 
wash, drain, and throw them in three quarts of boiling 
water with a teaspoonful of salt. Boil fast for a quarter 
of an hour,, drain them on a clean cloth, and serve. 



738. BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH BUTTER. 

Pick and boil a pound of nice Brussels sprouts as in the 
foregoing ; drain and fry them in a frying-pan with half an 
ounce of butter for five minutes, taking care to toss them 
to prevent burning. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg, toss up, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. ^./o^ 

739. TURNIPS WITH GRAVY. 

Select six tender and medium-sized turnips, peel and 
wash them well, then blanch in boiling water with a tea- 
spoonful of salt for five minutes ; drain, and cut into 
four. Melt one ounce of fresh butter in a saut6-pan, add 
the pieces of turnips, fry them to a nice light brown, 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with a pint 
of good stock or gravy, sprinkle in a teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, cover the pan and simmer for about 
twenty minutes. When done, which can be ascertained by 
trying them with a trussing-needle, dish them up, pour the 
gravy over, and serve. 

740. TURNIPS A LA SAVOISIENNE. 

Choose, peel, and blanch six nice tender turnips for five 
minutes ; then drain and let them get cold ; after which cut 
them in slices the eighth of an inch thick and fry with an 
ounce of fresh butter to a nice golden colour, taking care 
to season them with salt and grated nutmeg. Put a layer 
of these at the bottom of a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle 
on them a tablespoonful of grated cheese with a similar 
quantity of gravy or good stock, then another layer of 
turnips, and so on, finishing with grated cheese and rasp- 
ings mixed with an ounce of melted butter. Bake this in 
a hot oven to a nice brown colour, then add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of gravy over, and serve. 

741. MASHED TURNIPS. 
Peel, cut in eight parts, and blanch in the usual way 
half a dozen turnips ; then drain and fry in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter for five minutes ; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg ; moisten with a gill of good white stock. 
Simmer gently with the lid on, and when well done rub 



368 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

through a fine wire sieve into the stewpan again ; add 
an ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 
and half a pint of good white stock or milk, mix well to- 
gether over the fire with a wooden spoon, and when nicely 
smooth and hot, serve. 

742. CARROTS A L'lTALIENNE. 
Young carrots only should be used for this dish. Cut 
off the the green part of a bunch of new carrots, blanch 
in boiling water for about ten minutes, drain, and when 
cool peel ofE the skin with a knife or rub it off with 
a cloth ; put them in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and a pint of 
good broth. Boil on a brisk fire for about twenty minutes 
or till they are well glazed. Season with salt, pepper, and 
a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, add half an ounce 
of fresh butter, toss them over the fire, and when the butter 
is properly melted, dish up and serve. 

743. CARROTS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Select a nice bunch of new carrots, and blanch them in 
boiling water for ten minutes ; drain, and when cold rub 
their skin off with a cloth ; slice them a quarter of an 
inch thick, put in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 
a pint and a half of milk, a good pinch of salt, and a little 
grated nutmeg. Partly cover the stewpan and boil on a 
brisk fire for about twenty minutes, taking care to stir 
occasionally with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. 
When the milk is properly reduced, dish up and serve. 

744. PUR^E OF CARROTS. 

Scrape, clean, cut in slices, and blanch for ten minutes 
half a dozen nice long carrots ; then proceed for the puree 
as for mashed turnips (No. 235), and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 369 

745. CELERY WITH BEEF MARROW. 
Select six heads of fresh celery, trim the outside leaves, 
cut the roots to a point and the green parts straight, 
leaving each head about six inches long; then cut these 
lengthwise, in halves, and wash well. Blanch in boiling 
water for ten minutes, and immerse in cold water. When 
properly drained, put them carefully in a stewpan with a 
pint and a half of good broth; season with salt and 
pepper; simmer gently for about an hour; when well 
glazed, dish up on a hot dish. Have ready about two 
ounces of beef marrow boiled for four minutes in salt 
water; add it to the glaze in the stewpan; toss it and 
mash it well ; squeeze the juice of half a lemon ; toss again ; 
then pour it over the celery; and serve. 

746. CELERY AU GRATIN. 

Trim, cut in halves, and blanch six heads of celery as 
in the foregoing, then braize it in broth, properly seasoned, 
for an hour ; after which, dish it up as before, but without 
marrow and lemon -juice; sprinkle the top with grated 
cheese, put the dish in the oven to get brown ; then pour 
a gill of good gravy over, and serve. 

747. CELERY WITH GRAVY, 

Trim as in the foregoing and blanch for ten minutes 
six whole heads of celery, then immerse them in cold water, 
drain, and put them in a stewpan with a pint and a half of 
broth and an ounce of butter ; season with salt and pepper ; 
cover the stewpan and simmer for an hour and a half; 
when well done, dish up, pour the remainder of the gravy 
over, and serve. 

2 A 



370 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

748. VEGETABLE MARROW. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Cut the vegetable marrows, according to their size, in 
two, four, or six, lengthwise ; peel and remove all the 
seed, and then drop them into boiling, salt water and 
simmer till tender. When done, drain them carefully j 
dish the pieces inside up, pour some Butter sauce (No. 216) 
over, and serve. 

749. VEGETABLE MARROW, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Select three small vegetable marrows about four inches 
long, peel, cut them lengthwise in quarters, and remove the 
seed. Blanch for five minutes in boiling water ; drain 
and put them in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter and 
half a gill of salad-oil, previously made hot; fry on a 
brisk fire; season with salt and pepper; and when done, 
sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, dish up, and 



750. VEGETABLE MARROWS A L'ITALIENNE. 

Prepare and blanch three marrows as in No. 749; when 
drained, fry them till cooked, with two ounces of butter ; 
when tender, dish them up, cover with Tomato sauce, and 
serve. 

Note. — Marrows fried in butter can be served with a 
Sharp, Espagnole, Velout6, or Bechamel sauce. 

75L JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Scrub and wash well in plenty of water a pound of 
Jerusalem artichokes ; peel and boil them in salt water 
for about fifteen minutes. When done, drain them upon 
a cloth ; dish up, pour soiae Butter sauce (No. 216) over, 
and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 371 

762. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES A L'lTALIENNE. 

Wash and peel a pound of artichokes as in No. 751, blanch 
them in boiling salt water for five minutes, then drain and 
put them in a stewpan with an ounce of melted butter. 
Moisten with half a pint of broth, season with salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg, and simmer very gently for about twenty-five 
minutes, with the stewpan covered, taking care to turn 
them, in order to acquire a deep yellow colour. When 
done, dish them up, squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
the remainder of the glaze, pour it over the artichokes, 
and serve. 

Note. — Pickled Jerusalem artichokes prepared in the 
following manner eat very well with cold meat : — 

Wash and peel four pounds of artichokes as previ- 
ously described, cut these in thin slices, boil for five 
minutes in enough vinegar to soak them, and properly 
seasoned with salt, a dozen cloves, and two dozen pepper- 
corns ; pour the lot into an earthenwai'e pickle-jar, let the 
contents get cool, and then cover with a cork. It will keep 
for months, and any quantity can be taken out as wanted. 

753. GREEN ARTICHOKES. BUTTER SAUCE. 
Cut half an inch off the top of six artichokes, pare off 
the bottoms and loose leaves, and boil them in plenty of 
salt water for about three-quarters of an hour ; drain them 
upside down on a cloth, and remove the fibrous substance 
from the inside with the handle of a spoon, then dish up on 
a napkin, and serve with Butter sauce (No. 216) in a sauce- 
boat apart. 

754. ARTICHOKES A LA BARIGOULE. 

Trim six artichokes as in the foregoing, boil them in the 
same way, and remove the inside in a similar manner, then 



372 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

squeeze the water out, and season thera slightly with salt 
and pepper. Meanwhile pour a gill of salad-oil into a 
frying-pan, and when hot, fry the top of the leaves in it 
for about three minutes, then the bottoms in a similar way, 
and drain the artichokes upside down on a cloth. Chop 
up fine half a pound of fresh and trimmed mushrooms, 
a handful of parsley, and four shalots, put these into a 
stewpan with three ounces of scraped fat bacon and an 
ounce of butter ; season with salt, pepper, and a little 
chopped thyme; fry the lot for about seven minutes, 
stirring the while ; then lay it on a plate and divide it in 
six parts ; put each part of this mixture in each artichoke ; 
place a thin slice of fat bacon on the top of each ; tie 
round with string to keep them in shape ; put them in a 
saut^-pan ; moisten with half a pint of good stock ; bake 
in the oven for fifteen minutes ; remove the string, dish 
them up, and serve. 

755. ARTICHOKES A L'lTALIENNK. 

Trim, boil, and remove the inside of six artichokes as in 
the previous number ; dish them up, pour half a pint of 
boiling Sharp Italian sauce (No. 205) in the centre, and 
serve. 

756. FRIED ARTICHOKES. 

Trim and pare off four nice artichokes as described 
for artichokes, Butter sauce. Cut them lengthwise in 
slices a quarter of an inch thick, remove the fibrous sub- 
stance close to the bottom, and throw the pieces in cold 
water, with a gill of vinegar to keep them white. Prepare 
a batter with a gill of salad-oil, a quarter of a pound of 
flour, four yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste. When 
these ingredients have been well mixed together, if it is 
found that the batter is too tbin, add a little flour ; if too 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 373 

thick, a little cold water ; then drain the pieces of arti- 
chokes, and with the hand mix them well in the batter till 
they are all evenly coated ; after which, fry them in hot 
fat, previously heated to the right temperature for that 
purpose. When of a nice brown colour draw them out, 
and drain on a wire sieve ; sprinkle with salt, dish them 
up on a napkin, and serve. 

Note. — In addition to the above, artichokes either plain 
boiled or raw, can also be eaten a la poivrade, a mixture 
of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

757. SEA-KALE. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Trim, clean, and tie the sea-kale up in small bunches, 
put these in boiling salt water and boil for about twenty 
minutes; when tender, drain and dish up on a napkin 
(after having removed the string), and serve with Butter 
sauce (No. 216) in a sauce-boat apart. 

758. ASPARAGUS WITH BUTTER SAUCE. 

Scrape along the white stalks of the asparagus with a knife 
held in a slanting position ; pare off the loose leaves from 
the heads; plunge in cold water; then tie them up in 
bundles of about twenty-five in each according to size, 
taking care to have all the heads turned the same way; 
cut the stalks even. Put the asparagus in boiling water, 
with half an ounce of salt for each quart of water; boil 
for twelve or fifteen minutes according to size; and 
when done, which is ascertained by pressing with the 
fingers, take them out by the string and immerse at 
once in cold water ; then drain immediately, dish them up 
on a napkin, remove the string, and serve with Butter 
sauce (No. 216) in a sauce-boat apart. 

Note. — Asparagus should not be done too much ; in fact, 



374 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it ought to remain always firm to the touch, and should 
never be kept in water after being cooked, as it then gets 
flabby and spongy, like all other boiled vegetables, which 
will be spoiled in the same way if allowed to reiiain in 
water after being cooked. 

759. ASPARAGUS A LA MILANAISE. 

Scrape, tie, and boil the asparagus required as in No. 758 j 
dish up on a napkin, and serve with a sauce-boat containing 
one ounce of grated parmesan cheese and two ounces of 
fresh butter, previously melted and well mixed "together 
and seasoned with pepper. 

760. ASPARAGUS WITH BROWN BUTTER. 

- Prepare and cook as above the asparagus ; drain and 
dish up on a napkin, and serve with some brown butter 
(No. 1 64) previously made for that purpose in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

761. ASPARAGUS WITH OIL AND VINEGAR. 

Trim and boil the asparagus as described in the fore 
going, and after having dipped it in cold water and drained, 
let it get quite cold (if laid on the ice with a cloth all the 
better). When ready dish up in the usual way, and serve 
■with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, in a sauce-boat, all well 
mixed together to taste. 

Note. — The above style of serving asparagus is the most 
usual on the Continent. 

762. SPINACH A LITALIENNE. " 
Pick oflf the stalks of three pounds of spinach, wash well 
iri two waters, drain upon a sieve or colander, and put it 
in about three quarts of boiling water with half an ounce 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 375 

of salt, and boil for six or seven minutes ; then turn the 
spinach upon the sieve or colander and immerse in plenty of 
cold water tiU quite cold (otherwise it will assume a yellow 
tinge). Afterwards squeeze the water out, spread the 
spinach on the chopping-board, and chop slightly with a 
knife ; then fry in a saut^-pan with two ounces of anchovy 
butter till done, adding meanwhile two ounces of Malaga 
raisins (previously washed in lukewarm water), when well 
mixed together over the fire, dish up, garnish with croiitons 
fried in butter, and serve. 

763. SPINACH, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Pick, wash, blanch, and chop three pounds of spinach as 
described in No. 762 ; then fry in a saute-pan, with two 
ounces of butter, two cloves of garlic, and four anchovies 
chopped fine, till done; season with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, and just before dishing up add a little fi'esh butter, 
stir the whole well together, and serve with croiitons fried 
in butter. 

764. SPINACH A LA PROVENQALE. 

Prepare, blanch, and chop up the spinach as above ; after 
which, fry it with a gill of salad-oil and two cloves of garlic 
chopped fine till cookeij ; season with salt and pepper, dish 
' it up with croijtons,-and serve. 

765. SPINACH WITH BUTTER. 

Pick and wash three pounds of spinach as described in 
the foregoing, then boil till it becomes quite tender and 
soft to the touch, drain the water, immerse it in cold, and 
afterwards squeeze all the water from it between two plates, 
chop fine and rub it through a coarse wire sieve ; then put it 
in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter ; season with 



376 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; stir the spinach over the 
fire with a wooden spoon until it becomes quite warm, then 
add gradually half a pint of good broth, still stirring the 
spinach. When well mixed together and made quite hot, 
add a little more fresh butter, and when this is melted and 
properly mixed with the spinach, dish it up, garnish round 
with croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 

766, SPINACH WITH CREAM. 

Prepare the spinach as above, stir it with a wooden 
spoon over the fire in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter 
and seasoned with salt and nutmeg till warm; then add 
gradually half a pint of cream, a little butter and a dessert- 
spoonful of pounded sugar ; continue the stirring over the 
fire till the lot is well mixed together and hot, and dish 
up as in the foregoing. 

767. BOILED PEAS A L'ANGLAISE. 

Put a quart of fresh shelled peas in two quarts of boiling 
water, with a few sprigs of mint and seasoned with a small 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil quickly till done, which will 
take between fifteen and twenty minutes ; then drain and 
put ihem in a saut6-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
sprinkle a little salt and pepper, toss them till the butter 
is melted, and serve. 

768, STEWED PEAS WITH BACON. 
Remove the rind of a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon 

and cut it in dice half an inch thick ; fry these in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of butter for five minutes, then sprinkle 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir over the fire for four 
minutes longer ; after which, add a pint of water, one quart 
of peas, and a few green onions, stew for about half an hour 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 377 

with the stewpan covered, then season according to taste, 
remove the onions, skim off the fat, and serve. 

769. PEAS A LA FRAN^AISE. 

Put a quart of fresh shelled peas in a stewpan with a 
gill of water, a few green onions and the heart of a cabbage- 
lettuce cut in four, three ounces of butter, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and the same quantity of lump-sugar. Set the 
stewpan on a slow fire to stewi gently for about half an 
hour with the lid on. Meanwhile knead together a table- 
spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter, and when the 
peas are done add this paste to them. Toss the stewpan 
over the fire till the butter is melted and the peas properly 
thickened, then taste if well seasoned, and serve. 

Note. — If tinned peas are used, throw them in boiling 
water, drain, season and finish as with fresh peas. 

770. FRENCH BEANS. 
Pick and remove the strings of one pound of French 
beans, and if large and old, shred them lengthwise; then 
throw them in plenty of boiling water with a good pinch 
of salt, and boil on a brisk fire till tender, which must be 
ascertained by trying them; after which, drain them in a 
-colander, dish up with an ounce of fresh butter in a lump, 
sprinkle a little salt over, and serve. 

771. FRENCH BEANS SAUTf S. 
Pick the stalks and strings of a pound of French beans, 
and boil them as in the previous number; then drain 
them well and put iu a frying-pan with two ounces of 
melted butter; fry these over a brisk fire for about ten 
minutes ; season with a little salt and chopped parsley, 
toss the contents well, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, 
toss again, and serve. 



378- PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

772. FRENCH BEANS A LA MAflRE D'HOTEL. 

Remove the corners and strings of a pound of French 
beans ; boil and drain them as previously described. 
Meanwhile have ready in a stewpan a gill of either 
Bechamel or Supreme sauce, with two ounces of fresh 
butter, a teaspoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, 
Reasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, well mixed 
together over the fire ; then add the beans, toss the whole 
well together, and when quite hot squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over, toss again, and serve. 

773. DRIED WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Soak one pound of dried haricot beans, in plenty of cold 
water, for about twelve hours previous to cooking, then 
pick out all the imperfect ones and throw the best into 
a stewpan with three quarts of cold water and a table- 
spoonful of salt. Boil with the stewpan covered till ten- 
der, drain the water through a colander and return the 
beans in the pan, with three ounces of fresh butter and 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ;. season with salt and 
pepper, and moisten with a little broth or the liquor of the 
beans ; toss the beans till the butter is melted, and serve. 

774. HARICOT BEANS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE, 

Soak a pound of haricot beans as in No. 773, cook them 
in salt water for a quarter of an hour, and drain in the 
usual way. In the meantime have ready hot in a stewpan 
a pint of mutton gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg ; put the beans in it, and continue the cooking till 
tender, add an ounce of fresh butter, and serve. 

Note. — Plain boiled haricot beans are also served as 
a salad ; in that case they should be cold, and seasoned 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 379 

with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of either 
chopped parsley, tarragon, or chevril. 

775, BROAD BEANS A LA POULETTE. 

Boil in plenty of water till tender, with a good pinch 
of salt in it, two pounds of freshly shelled broad beans. 
Drain, and remove their skin ; then stir in the same stew- 
pan for three minutes over the fire, half an ounce of butter, 
with a similar quantity of flour, and make a liaison with 
the yolks of two eggs, half a gill of cream, and another 
half ounce of butter. When properly thickened, add ithe 
beans to the sauce, with a small teaspoonful of pounded 
sugar ; toss the stewpan to mix well, and serve. 

iVb^e.— Broad beans can also be prepared a la maitre 
d'hotel, and in the same manner as haricot beans, for 
which see above. 

776. PUR^E OF BROAD BEANS. 

Boil till tender two pounds of broad beans, and drain 
them as described, then rub them with a wooden spoon 
over a fine wire sieve, and return the puree to the stewpan, 
with either a gill of cream. Bechamel sauce, or a good 
gravy, and two ounces of butter ; stir the contents over 
the fire till hot, and serve. 

777. LENTILS A LA MAItRE D'HSTEL. 

Soak for about four hours and wash one pound of lentils, 
and boil them in about two quarts of water and a dessert- 
spoonful of salt tUl done, then drain them in the usual 
way. Meanwhile prepare a -quarter of a pound of maitre 
d'h8tel butter, to which mix a tablespoonful or two of the 
liquor in which the lentils were boiled ; add these to the 
sauce, toss them up till hot and well-mixed, and serve. 



380 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

778. LENTILS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Wash, cook, and drain a pound of lentils, as in No. 777. 
Meanwhile cut about two ounces of streaky bacon (free 
from rind) in very small dice, and fry them with half an 
ounce of butter for three minutes. When the lentils have 
been properly drained, return them to the stewpan with 
either a gill of Espagnole sauce or good gravy; add the 
bacon to it, stir, and serve. 

779. STUFFED TOMATOES A LA PROVEN9ALE. 

Select six firm tomatoes of equal size and ripeness. Put 
them in boiling water for two minutes, in order to help the 
removal of the skin ; when peeled, cut them across in 
halves, remove the seeds, and place them in a saute-pan, 
well spread with salad oil, by the side of the fire. Mean- 
while chop very finely an onion, half a handful of parslej', 
six large fresh mushrooms, and two anchovies ; fry these^ 
for five minutes in a stewpan with about an ounce of 
scraped fat bacon, season with salt, pepper and chopped 
thyme, and moisten with either good gravy or Espagnole 
sauce ; then put this stufiing over the twelve halves of 
tomatoes. Sprinkle some fine raspings over, set the 
saut^-pan over a brisk fire for about five minutes, then in a 
hot oven for seven or eight minutes or till they are properly 
baked, after which dish carefully without breaking, and 
serve. 

780. GRILLED TOMATOES. 

Remove the stalks of six ripe tomatoes, cut them across in 
halves, and set them (skin downward) on a clear fire to grill 
seven or eight minutes, according to size. Move them 
gently over the bars of the grill, without however, turning 
them. When cooked, season each half with salt and pepper. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 381 

dish them on buttered toast, previously made for that pur- 
pose, and serve. 

Note. — Tomatoes are also made into salad. 

Remarks on Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms should be soaked in water with a little salt 
and vinegar, then washed in plain water and wiped dry 
before cooking, and as a safeguard against poisoning, should 
be cooked with a peeled onion. If the onion remains 
white, the mushrooms are good ; but if the onion becomes 
black or even slightly coloured, they are poisonous, and 
should at once be destroyed. A piece of silver thrown 
with the mushrooms when being cooked will also answer 
the same purpose, and be distinguished by the same 
process. 

781. MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN. 

Select a dozen large mushrooms ; cut the stalks and 
remove the skin ; place the mushrooms (the hollow part 
upwards) in a well buttered saut6-pan ; fill them with a 
similar preparation to that for stuffed tomatoes, but 
substitute the cut stalks chopped fine for mushrooms ; 
strew some fine raspings over them, and put the saute-pan 
in the hot oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an hour, 
then dish them up in a pyramidal form, and serve with 
some good gravy apart. 

782. MUSHROOMS A LA BORDELAISE. 

Clean and trim the mushrooms as in the foregoing, 
put them in a frying-pan with some salad oil and a 
clove or two of garlic chopped very fine; fry over a 
moderate fire for ten or twelve minutes, and season with 
salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. When done, 



3^82 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

squeeze the juice of half a lemon, dish up the mushrooms, 
and serve. 

783. MUSHROOMS A LA MILANAISE. 

Select, clean, and trim some nice mushrooms, marinade 
them for an hour in a little oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; 
after vrhich wipe and flour them ; then pass them in the 
yolks of eggs well beaten and mixed with some grated 
Parmesan cheese, seasoned with salt, pepper, and allspice, 
and fry in butter and oil, previously made hot in a frying- 
pan for that purpose. When of a nice brown colour and 
crisp, dish up and serve. 



Remarks on Onions, 

The qualities and virtue of the onion are great, and they 
will never be too much known or appreciated. 

The onion is the most wholesome of all vegetables, and 
is at the same time a safeguard against many ailments. 

Whenever and wherever a person is suffering from any 
infectious fever, let a peeled onion be kept on a plate in 
the room of the patient. No one will ever catch the 
disease, provided the said onion be replaced every day by 
one freshly peeled, as then it will have absorbed the whole 
of the poisonous atmosphere of the room, and become black. 

Onions are good for a cold, cooked as well as raw ; they 
can be served as a vegetable, and are constantly in request 
for culinary purposes. 

Garlic is also a safeguard against cholera, by keeping a 
clove in the mouth as you would a lozenge for cough. 

784. STEWED ONIONS. 

Peel four Spanish onions of equal size, and boil them 
for a quarter of an hour in plain water; drain and put 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 383 

them in a saut6-pan, previously spread with fresh butter ; 
moisten with a good pint of broth, and season with salt, 
pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar. Put them 
in a hot oven to bake for about twenty minutes, taking 
care- to baste them often when nearly done, set the pan 
over a brisk fire, roll the onions in their liquor, and when 
well glazed, dish up, pour the remainder of the glaze over, 
and serve. 

Note. — Onions can also be served stewed in milk. Pro- 
ceed as above, but substitute a quart of milk for the broth. 



785. REMARKS ON SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

Man eats nearly everything, either cooked or uncooked, 
and foremost among the latter are herbs and roots, prepared 
for food with special condiments and ingredients, and called 



The raw materials used in France and Italy for salads 
are numerous and varied : for instance, celeriac, radishes, 
rampion, beetroot- bulb, and the potent onion; the steins 
and leaf-stalks of asparagus, celery, purslane and arti-. 
chokes; the leaves of lettuce, endive, cress, dandelion, and 
chicory; the flowers of the bitter pungent nasturtium, 
and the fruits and seed-pods of cucumbers, capsicums, 
tomatoes, beans, peas, and the like; as a matter of fact, 
there are more things in earth and field capable of salad 
treatment than the somewhat prejudiced English gastro- 
nomic philosophy ever dreamt of. 

There is an art in dressing a salad really well, as no 
ingredient should be more prominent in its taste than 
the other. There must be neither too much of it nor too 
much in it, but just enough of each. 

Although many men of high social positions have won 



384 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

honour and distinction in salad making, the gift of pre- 
paring such tasty delicacies is essentially womanly. To 
her delicate fingers must be left the care of washing the 
leaves separately and drying them by affectionate pressure 
in a white cloth ; let her reach the acme of perfection by 
rubbing the mystic "chapon" or crust of bread with the 
fragrant clove of garlic. Let her dry the salad-bowl, and put 
the pepper in with moderation and the salt to taste ; then, 
like one of the five wise virgins, she will have her olive oil 
to hand, to pour in two and a half tablespoonfuls to each 
one of French vinegar, together with a touch of mustard ; 
and if to these are added half a teaspoonful of chopped 
tarragon or clievril, and the whole be properly stirred and 
blended with a wooden spoon and fork, she will have 
concocted the best salad dressing desirable, and will only 
have to add, when required, the carefully-wiped leaves and 
" chapon " and toss them about, to bid them absorb the 
magic mixture. 

In addition to the above-mentioned herbs, plain boiled 
potatoes, carrots, cauliflower, beetroot, haricot beans, 
trufiles, and any kind of cold cooked fish, lobster, crab, and 
■eggs, are also made into salads. Let the potatoes, carrots, 
beetroot, truffles, and eggs be thinly sliced, and the cauli- 
flowers cut into small heads ; substitute chopped onion for 
garlic, or omit it altogether if not agreeable, and spread 
a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 



786. REMARKS^ ON SANDWICHES AND CANAPES. 

Sandwiches are made with ham, heef, chicken, pickled 
tongue, smoked salmon and herrings, tinned sardines and an- 
chovies (fish as well as paste), caviare, hard-boiled eggs, salad, 
watercress, or mustard cress. "With respect to meat sand- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 385 

wiches, the process is always th"e same. Select a tin loaf, 
which should be a day stale, cut as many slices one eighth 
of an inch thick as there are sandwiches required; then 
blend with a knife a little mustard with fresh butter, 
spread this on the slices of bread, cover evenly one half of 
these with the meat, previously cut very thin for that pur- 
pose, then reverse the other half slices of buttered bread 
over the meat. Press the sandwiches slightly with the 
hand, and pile four of them together ; then trim them with 
a sharp knife, by cutting ■ off all the crust, and cut them 
through either in square or triangular form and dish them 
up on a napkin. 

Note. — When beef or chicken sandwiches are made, salt 
should be sprinkled over the meat before being covered, 
and with chicken the mustard must be omitted. 

787. SARDINES ON TOAST. 

Fish sandwiches are made differently to those of meat or 
poultry. The slices of bread are toasted and buttered 
whilst hot, then sardines, split in halves, boned, and scaled, 
are laid on the toast and served with the fish uppermost. 

Note. — Smoked salmon, as well as anchovies and caviare, 
are served in the same way ; but with respect to salmon the 
slices must be cut very thin, and they can be served either 
raw or broiled on oiled paper on a gridiron over a slow fire 
for one minute each side and served when cold. 

788. ANCHOVY CANAPES. 

Cut as many slices of crumb of bread, two and a half 
inches long, by one and a half wide and a quarter of an 
inch thick, as there will be canapes required ; fry these in 
clarified butter to a nice golden colour; and when cold, 
spread a little anchovy butter on each. Steep some 



386 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

anchovies in cold water ; dry thera with a cloth ; split, bone 
and trim them j then place four halves lengthwise on each 
piece of bread, leaving three small spaces between each 
fillet ; fill the first with chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, 
the middle with chopped parsley, and the third with chopped 
hard-boiled white of egg; dish on a napkin and serve. 

Note. — Anchovy paste can be substituted for the fillets; 
in that case, after having spread the paste over the bread, 
add a slice of hard-boiled egg in the centre. 



789. SMOKED HERRING CANAPES, 

Cut and fry the bread as described in 788 ; spread these 
pieces with anchovy butter, and cover them with smoked 
herrings, previously trimmed, skinned, boned, and cut into 
fillets lengthwise, and steeped in olive oil for some four 
hours, then wiped and moistened again with fresh oil ; and 
serve, properly dressed, on a napkin. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

REMARKS ON PASTE AND SWEET DISHES. 

I HAVE already given the recipes for ordinary paste (No. 
95) to make tagliatelli with, and puff paste (Nos. 318 
and 3 ig) for patties, bojichtes, pies, &c. ; — I will now pro- 
ceed with a proper description of paste for raised pies, short 
paste for tarts, brioche paste, almond paste, &c., &c., to 
make cakes and pastry with.* 

790, SHORT PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the slab, spread it out 
in the centre, then add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and a gill and a half of cold water. Pro- 
ceed to work the whole together with the hands into a very 
firm. paste in the following manner : When the ingredients 
have been worked into a paste, bring it to the edge of the 
slab, then use the palms of both hands alternately with great 
force to spread and divide the paste into small parts. 
Sprinkle a few drops of water over the paste and knead it 
together, this is called " breaking and kneading " and must 
be repeated four times. The paste must then be gathered 

* With respect to pastry and sweet dishes, their names and styles are 
legion, and are so complicated in their shapes, colours, and tastes, that 
they furnish enough materials for a large work of their own. I will 
limit myself to simply giving what I consider the most useful and practical 
recipes, and at the same time recommend Mr. Jules Gouff^'a most 
valuable "Eoyal Book of Pastry and Confectionery" to those who wish 
to know more on this subject. 

38? 



388 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

up, placed in a clean cloth, pressed together, and is ready 
for use. 

791. SHORT PASTE FOR TARTS. 
Spread a pound of sifted flour on the slab with a hollow 
in the centre, then add half a pound of butter, two ounces 
of pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, two whole eggs, and 
rather more than a gill of water. Work these together 
with the hands to a firm paste, and use it- to cover fruit 
tarts, and lining tartlets, &c. 

792. BRIOCHE PASTE. 

Spread a quarter of a pound of sifted flour on the slab, 
with a small well in the centre ; then put half an ounce 
of German yeast in it, and dissolve with a little tepid 
water ; when this is done add sufficient water to mix the 
whole into a rather soft paste. Knead this into the form 
of a round ball, put it into a stewpan capable of containing 
three times its quantity, score it with a knife round the 
sides. Put the lid on, and set to rise in a rather warm 
place. In summer the fermentation will proceed satis- 
factorily if it is merely placed on the kitchen table, or in 
some such place of moderate warmth. This is termed 
setting the sponge. Meanwhile put three-quarters of a 
pound of flour on the slab, spread as before with a well, in 
the centre, put a teaspbonful each of salt and pounded 
sugar, together with two tablespoonf uls of water to dissolve 
them, after which add ten ounces of butter and six whole 
eggs. Work the whole together with the hands, until well 
mixed, first by rubbing it with both fists held flat on the 
slab, and moving them to and fro, so as to thoroughly 
reduce any remaining lumps in the paste. By the time 
the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen 
sufficiently. To be perfect, it must rise to three times the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 389 

original size. When spread out on the paste prepared to 
receive it, it should have the appearance of a sponge, from 
which it takes its name. 

Both the above should then be thoroughly mixed together, 
and placed in a napkin spread in a basin, with a little flour 
shaken over ; shake again a little flour over the paste, fold 
the ends of the napkin over all, and set the basin in a cool 
place free from any current of air. 

This kind of paste should be made the evening previous 
to the day it is required. The first thing the following 
morning, the brioche paste must be turned off the napkin 
on to the slab ; shake some flour under and over it ; fold 
the paste over half a dozen times, pressing it down with 
the knuckles each time ; put the paste back into the napkin 
in the same way as before ; and about three hours after- 
wards knead again in a similar manner, previously to its 
being baked. 

If this paste when finished, appears to be full of small 
globules of air, and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is 
certain to be well made. 

After that, spread slightly with butter a baking-sheet, 
and form the paste into buns or rolls ; egg these well with 
the paste-brush, make a little round incision on the top, 
and bake in a brisk oven for about twenty-five minutes. 

Note. — Parmesan or Gruy^re cheese is sometimes in- 
troduced in brioches, in which case a quarter of a pound 
of the former should be grated, or the same quantity of the 
latter cut up in dice and well mixed with the paste. 

793. ALMOND PASTE. 

Blanch in boiling water for three minutes half a pound of 

Jordan almonds ; cool, peel, wash, drain, and wipe them in 

a cloth ; then pound them to a paste in a mortar ; moisten 

with a few drops of lemon juice while they are being 



390 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pounded, to prevent them from turning oily ; when this is 
done, add to the mortar half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of pounded sugar, one tablespoonful of orange-flower 
water, and a pinch of salt ; pound all these well together, 
adding three eggs, broken one after the other'; when w^ell 
mixed, put in a basin. Make one pound of puff paste as 
described in No. 319, give it five turns, cut it into two 
equal pieces, and roll with the rolling-pin each separately to 
half an inch thick, then put one half on a buttered baking- 
sheet, spread the almond paste on it, leaving a margin of 
about one inch and a half all round ; wet the edge of the 
paste and lay the other piece over, press with the thumb all 
round to stick the two together, egg the top, and bake 
in the oven for fifty minutes. Let the cake cool, then 
sprinkle some pounded sugar over, and serve. 

794. VICTORIA CAKE. 

The following ingredients are required to make the above 
cake : One pound of sifted flour, ten ounces of fresh butter, 
six eggs, three ounces of pounded sugar, three ounces of 
pounded almonds, four ounces of dried cherries, two ounces 
of green citron shred fine, one teaspoonful of cinnamon 
powder, a gill of whipped cream, half an ounce of German 
yeast, half a gill of brandy, and one teaspoonful of salt. 

Place the butter in a good-sized white kitchen pan, and 
work it with a clean weoden spoon for about ten minutes, 
by which time the butter should present the appearance 
of thick cream ; then add three eggs, the cinnamon, pounded 
sugar and almonds, the cherries, citron, brandy, and about 
one-fourth part of the flour; work the whole quickly to- 
gether for a few minutes with the spoon, then add gradually 
the remainder of the flour and eggs, still working the 
paste with the wooden spoon. "When the lot has been 
used up, spread the paste out in the centre of the pan, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 391 

and add to it the yeast and salt dissolved in a spoonful 
of tepid water, and the cream, whipped first before being 
added. When the paste is properly mixed, take a tin hoop 
measuring about six inches in diameter by three deep, 
line the inside of this hoop with buttered paper cut three 
and a half inches wide, lay this on a baking- sheet lined 
also with a sheet of buttered paper, put the paste in the 
mould and let it rise by fermentation, to twice its original 
quantity, by keeping it in a moderately warm place, then 
put in an oven, not too hot, to be baked till of a light 
colour. 

Note. — It is impossible to determine on the exact length 
of time that this or any other cake should remain in the 
oven before it is done. This depends mainly upon the con- 
struction of the oven, but the way to ascertain whether a 
cake is properly baked is by running a small wooden 
skewer down its centre ; if this should be found dry and 
free from paste when withdrawn, the cake may be safely 
turned out of the hoop, when it will be found of a light 
colour, and have a smooth surface. 



795. PARISIAN CAKE. 

Have the following ingredients ready to make the paste 
required for Parisian cake : One pound of sifted flour, ten 
ounces of fresh butter, three ounces of pounded sugar, 
four whole eggs and four yolks, half a pint of cream, four 
ounces of Jordan almonds and one of bitter ditto, two 
ounces of candied orange peel, half an ounce of yeast, and 
a teaspoonful of salt. 

Shred in small narrow strips the orange peel. Blanch 
and remove the hulls from the almonds, then wash and 
pound them to a very soft paste, adding a few drops of 
water to prevent them becoming oily, and mix with the 



392 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



cream; let them steep thus for half an hour in a cool 
place. 

For mixing this paste, follow in all respects the directions 
given for Victoria paste, adding ,the orange peel after having 
put the paste in the mould, and mixing it with the yeast 
dissolved in a little tepid water ; after which let it ferment, 
and bake as described in the foregoing. 

Note. — It is advisable to put these cakes back in the 
oven for two or three minutes after they are turned out - 
of the mould, to prevent their becoming shrivelled on the 
surface, or shrinking and falling in. 

796. SAVOY CAKE. 

Ingredients : Four ounces and a half each of potato flour 
and finest Vienna flour, fourteen eggs, and one pound of 
pounded sugar. Separate the yolks from the whites of the 
eggs, put the former in a basin and the whites into an 
egg-bowl, in a cool place, add the sugar to the yolks, with 
a pinch of salt and a few drops of either oraiige, lemon, 
orange-flower, vanilla, or bitter almond essence. 

Work these together with a wooden spoon until the 
whole presents the appearance of a thick creamy batter, 
then the whites must be whisked into a firm snowy froth. 
Meanwhile let both flours be well mixed in with the batter, 
and as soon as the whites are satisfactorily whisked, mix 
them also with the paste by adding them in small quantities 
at first, until it has become smoothly diluted, then add 
the remainder of the ingredients, and mix thoroughly well 
together. 

Chop very fine one pound of either beef or veal suet, 
then melt it in a stewpan and strain through a cloth, 
pour this into the mould, turn it round in all directions, 
so that the fat may touch all the angles and recesses, after- 
wards pour it out, and turn the mould on a plate and let it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 393 

stand in a warm place for a few minutes, that the fat may 
be entirely drained off; then shake about three-quarters 
of a pound of finely-pounded sugar into the mould, in order 
that it may effectually cover the whole of its inside with a 
perfectly smooth surface. When this is done, pour the 
mixture in the mould, put this on a baking-sheet in the 
oven, which must be heated moderately, and particular 
care taken to keep it closed as much as possible while the 
cake is baking, and do not increase its temperature. 
When the cake is of a light colour, it must be turned out 
of the mould, reversed on the baking-sheet, and returned 
to the oven for two or three minutes longer. 



797. PLUM CAKE. 

Ingredients required : One pound and a half each of 
flour, currants, and butter ; one pound each of pounded 
sugar and dried cherries slightly chopped, and one pound 
of candied citron, orange and lemon peel in equal quantities 
all shred small; half a pound of ground almonds, eight 
whole eggs, half an ounce of ground spice, consisting of 
cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg mixed in equal proportions, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a pint of brandy. 

Put the butter in a large white earthen pan, and work 
with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of 
a creamy substance; then add gradually the flour, sugar, 
and eggs, still working the paste with the wooden spoon. 
When thoroughly mixed, add gradually also the remaining 
ingredients and work it well together, then pour into a 
convenient-sized tin hoop (previously lined with double 
bands of buttered paper) and place it on a baking-sheet with 
two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, and put it in 
a moderately-heated oven to bake to a light colour, taking 
care not to increase the heat during the operation. 



394 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

798. PLAIN SEED-CAKE. 

Ingredients : Six eggs, half a pound each of pounded 
sugar and butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half an ounce of 
carraway-seeds, and one quartern of common dough. Spread 
the dough on the slab, add the whole of the above-named 
ingredients to it, and work well together with the hands 
so as to mix the lot well with the dough. The eggs should 
be added only two at a time. When the paste is ready, 
put it into a plain mould, previously spread with butter, 
and put it to rise in a warm place ; and as soon as the fer- 
mentation has taken place in a satisfactory manner, put 
the cake in the oven to bake till of a light colour. 

799. POUND-CAKE. 

Ingredients : One pound each of flour, butter, and 
pounded sugar ; eight eggs, half a gill of brandy, a pinch 
of salt, and a few drops of orange or lemon essence. Put 
the butter in a large basin, work with a wooden spoon 
until it assumes the appearance of a thick cream, then 
add gradually the ilour, sugar and eggs, and when the 
whole is .properly made into a paste, add the brandy, salt, 
and essence. Mix well together with the spoon, and pour 
it in any kind of mould, previously spread with butter, or in 
a tin hoop lined with buttered paper. 

800. SAVARIN CAKE. 

Ingredients : One pound of flour, two ounces of sugar, 
ten ounces of fresh butter, eight eggs, two ounces of shred 
almonds, half an ounce of German yeast, and a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Put one-fourth of the flour on the slab with the yeast, 
and proceed to dissolve it as described for making brioche 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 395 

paste, then place in a similar manner in a stewpan in a 
warm place to ensure its gradual rising. In the meantime 
dissolve the salt with a teaspoonful of tepid water in a large 
white pan or basin, put the remainder of the flour with the 
butter, sugar, and four eggs ; mix the whole together with 
the right hand, beating up the paste until it easily leaves 
the sides of the pan, then break in the other four eggs, and 
work it for five minutes longer ; when the sponge has 
risen to twice its original quantity, add it and mix it well 
with the paste. Butter a cylinder mould, strew this with 
the shred almonds, half fill the mould with the paste, let 
it stand in a nioderate temperature, and when it has risen 
to the top of the mould, put the savarin to bake in a 
moderate oven for about an hour. When done turn the 
cake out of the mould, let it cool for about fifteen minutes, 
then pour over some hot syrup flavoured with Curasao or 
other liqueur, and serve warm. 

801. BABA. 

Ingredients : One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, 
two ounces of pounded sugar, three ounces of Muscatel 
raisins, two ounces of currants, one ounce of candied citron, 
a small pinch of saffron (infused in half a gill of boiling 
water), half a gill of either brandy or rum, a teaspoonful 
of salt, eight eggs, and half an ounce of German yeast. 

Dissolve the yeast with one-fourth of flour as in No. 
800, and let it rise in the same manner ; meanwhile spread 
out the remainder of the flour so as to form a well in the 
centre, dissolve in this the salt with a few drops of tepid 
water, then with it put the butter, sugar, and broken eggs ; 
mix the lot thoroughly with the hands on the slab, and 
work it well by gathering the paste up closely with the 
hands, and jerk it down on the other part of the paste for 
about five minutes, and as soon as the sponge is sufiiciently 



396 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

risen, spread it over the paste and mix both lightly together ; 
add the stoned raisins and some well-washed currants, 
candied citron chopped fine, the rum, and the infusion of 
saffron ; work the ' whole well together, spread a large 
mould with butter; half fill it with the paste, and put 
it in a warm place until it rises to the top of the mould, 
bake it in a moderately-heated oven to a golden colour, 
when done turn the baba out of the mould on to a dish, 
and serve. 

Note. — The rum or brandy may be omitted, and the baba 
served with a sauce composed of apricot jam warmed up in 
a stewpan with half a pint of syrup and a gill of rum, and 
poured over the baba. 

802. GENOESE CAKE. 

Ingredients : Half a pound each of flour, pounded sugar, 
and butter, four eggs, half a gill of brandy, and a good 
pinch of salt. 

Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt well together 
in a basin with a wooden spoon ; then add the butter 
(merely melted by the side of the fire) ; work this well with 
the paste ; pour it afterwards on a baking-sheet, previously 
spread with butter, to the thickness of about an eighth of 
an inch, and bake in a moderately-heated oven to a light 
colour ; when done, turn it on a sheet of paper, and cut or 
stamp it out either in circular, oblong, oval, angular, leaf- 
like, or any other fancy shapes; these should then be 
decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as for 
meringues (No. 867), and ornamented with currants, &c. 

803. GINGER CAKE. 

Ingredients : One pound of flour, twelve ounces each of 
fresh butter and pounded sugar, two ounces of ground 
Jamaica ginger, and eight yolks of eggs. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 397 

Work the whole of the above-named ingredients into a 
paste on the slab, then gather this into a compact mass 
and separate into four parts, roll these to the thickness 
of the sixth of an inch, and with a tin cutter stamp out as 
many cakes as the paste will produce; place them on a 
slightly buttered baking-sheet, pass a paste-brush over 
when they are about half done, shake some sugar over, 
and set them back in the oven to finish baking of a very 
light colour, 

804. SPANISH CAKE, 

Ingredients required : Half a pint of water, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, five 
ounces of flour, three eggs, a few drops of orange essence, 
two ounces of chopped almonds, and a pinch of salt. 

Put the water, butter, salt, and sugar into a stewpan 
on the fire, and as soon as these begin to boil withdraw 
the stewpan; add the flour, stir the whole well together 
with a wooden spoon for about three minutes, when the 
paste should be of a soft and compact appearance, then add 
the essence and one egg; mix these well with the paste, 
then mix in the other two eggs, and if the paste should be 
stiff, add another egg, or the yolk only may be added ; this 
paste, when properly made, should be laid out on a baking- 
sheet in small round balls the size of a pigeon's egg, and 
egged over with a paste-brush, then the chopped almonds 
must be mixed with a tablespoonful of pounded sugar and 
a very small quantity of white of egg, and strewn over the 
balls with a little sifted sugar shaken over, and baked of a 
very light colour, then served either plain or garnished with 
cream or any kind of preserve. 

805. MADELEINES. 

These are made with the same kind of paste as for 
Genoese cakes, to which currants, dried cherries, candied 



398 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

peel, or angelica may be added. When the paste is 
ready, pour it into a sufficient number of small fluted or 
plain madeleine moulds previously buttered inside, then 
place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in an oven of 
moderate heat. When properly baked turn out of the 
moulds, and let them get cold before serving. 

806. RICE CAKE.- 

Put one pound of pounded sugar in a whipping-bowl 
with sixteen eggs ; whip both together over a very slow 
fire for fifteen minutes ; then add half a pound of ground 
rice, three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter slightly 
melted in half a gill of Maraschino. Mix the whole lightly 
together; then butter and flour a cylinder mould three 
inches high, put the paste in it, and bake it in a moderate' 
oven. When done, turn the cake out of the mould, glaze 
it by pouring over a coating of apricot jam reduced with 
syrup, and sprinkle over the hot jam an ounce of chopped 
almonds, and let the cake cool before serving. 

807. PASTE FOR SPONGE CAKE AND BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : Eight eggs, one pound of pounded sugar, 
one ounce of vanilla sugar, and a quarter of a pound each 
of wheaten and potato flour. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs ; put the latter 
in the egg- bowl and the former in a basin, which mix with 
both sugars, and work with a wooden spoon. Whisk the 
whites, add them lightly to the yolks, then sprinkle both 
flours, and mix well together to a smooth paste. Meanwhile 
have ready spread with butter two moulds kept hot at the 
mouth of the oven, and strewn with fine dried sifted sugar 
inside; fill the moulds, within an inch from the border, with 
the paste, and put in a well-heated oven to bake. When 
clone, which will be when a trussing needle thrust into the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 399 

centre of the cake comes out dry and free from dampness, 
turn them out of tiie moulds ; and when cold, trim off the 
paste that comes above the moulds. 

808. ITALIAN BISCUITS. 

Ingredients required : Six eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
five ounces erf flour, a few drops of essence of either lemon 
or orange, six ounces of chopped almonds, and a pinch of 
salt. 

Break the eggs, and divide the whites from the yolks by 
putting the latter into a basin and the former in a whip- 
ping-bowl; add the pounded sugar, essence, and salt to 
the yolks, work these well with a wooden spoon till they 
present the appearance of a thick creamy batter. Then 
add half the flour, and mix it well in, after which whip the 
whites of the six eggs to a firm froth, and mix them 
lightly with the paste with the remainder of the flour, tak- 
ing care to keep the mixture as firm and light as possible. 
Butter and flour a baking-sheet, fill a biscuit forcer with 
some of the paste, and force it out gently on the baking- 
sheet in round or oval shapes twice the size of a five- 
shilling piece. When the whole of the paste is used up in 
this manner, strew the chopped almonds equally over the 
biscuits ; then shake over the surface some pounded sugar, 
and bake them of a very light colour in rather a slack 
oven. 

Note. — These biscuits are most appropriate for dessert. 

809. CHAMPAGNE BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : Half a pound each of pounded sugar, 
fresh butter, and flour ; eight eggs, a quarter of an ounce 
of earraway seeds, and a pinch of- salt. 

Put the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden 
spoon until of a thick creamy appearance; then add 



400 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

gradually the sugar, flour, yolks of eggs, the carraway 
seeds, and salt. Work these well together with the spoon, 
then mix the eight whites of eggs, previously whisked firm 
for the purpose j lay a sheet pf paper on a baking-sheet, 
fill a biscuit-forcer with some of the paste, and proceed to 
force out the paste on the sheet of paper in the shape of 
a finger three inches long by one wide, leaving an inch 
space between each biscuit j shake over some sifted sugar ; 
when all the paste has been used, bake in a moderate 
oven for about ten minutes, then let them cool before 
removing them from the paper. 

Note. — These biscuits are only served for dessert. 

810. APPLE TART. 

Make a puff paste (No. 319) at six turns, and roll it to 
a quarter of an inch thick. Butter an open tart mould, 
line it on a baking-sheet with the paste, and trim it on 
a level with the top of the mould j fill this with apples, 
previously peeled, the cores removed and cut in quarters, 
or slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; add a sufficient 
quantity of pounded sugar to sweeten the apples, and strew 
over the rind of a lemon rubbed on sugar and then scraped 
off. Cover the tart with puff paste, egg it over with a 
paste-brush, make some fanciful, but slight incisions on 
the top with the point of a knife, and let it bake of a 
light golden colour; when done, turn it carefully out of 
the mould, shake some sifted sugar upon, and serve when 
cold. 

811. FRUIT TARTS IN GENERAL. 

When apricots, peaches, or any kind of large plums, 
are used for making tarts, the stones must be removed. 
In other respects they are invariably made and baked as 
the foregoing. Cherry, damson, raspberry, and currant 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 401 

tarts are made with the same directions, except that the 
stones of the two former need not be removed. 

812. APPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel and cut the apples in rather thick slices, remove 
the cores with a tin cutter, and put the slices in a basin 
with about half a gill of brandy and a tablespoonful of 
pounded sugar, as well as some grated peel of either lemon 
or orange; toss the slices gently in the liquor, and let 
them steep thus for several hours if possible. Meanwhile 
make a batter paste (No. 317). Warm up to the right 
temperature a proper quantity of fat in the frying-kettle, 
and a quarter of an hour before serving drain well on a 
cloth the slices of apples ; dip each of these separately in 
the batter, and drop them quickly in the frying fat ; 
accelerate the fire when all the slices are in, stir with the 
skimmer, and when the fritters ^re crisp and of a nice 
golden colour, drain them on a cloth, shake some sifted 
sugar on both sides, and dish up on a napkin on a hot 
dish, and serve. 

813. PINE-APPLE FRITTERS. 

Trim the pine-apple without waste, cut it into small 
pieces the "size of a finger, steep them in a basin with a 
little Maraschino and a spoonful of pounded sugar ; then 
proceed to dip each piece in the batter, as described in 
the preceding number, and fry them in every respect as 
apple fritters. 

814. ORANGE FRITTERS. 
Peel the number of oranges required for fritters, divide 
them into quarters, remove the pips, and steep them in a 
basin with half a gill of brandy and a spoonful of pounded 
sugar ; toss these quarters well, so as to enable the brandy 
to be absorbed. Meanwhile prepare sonje light-made batter 

2 C 



402 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

(No. 317), and proceed (when about to send to the table) in 
the same way as for apple fritters. 

815. BEIGNETS FRITTERS. 

Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded sugar, and a 
small pinch of salt ; boil it ; then draw the pan away from 
the fire, add gradually while stirring with a wooden spoon, 
half a pound of flour and the grated peel of a lemon ; stir 
this over the fire four minutes longer, then take it away 
from the fire and break in one egg, mix it thoroughly 
before adding another, aiid continue in the same way until 
five eggs have been used, if the paste is rather stiff, use 
one more, as this must be of such consistency as not 
to spread when dropped from the spoon. Warm some 
frying-fat in the frying kettle ; when hot, draw it to the 
side of the fire, spread the paste one inch and a half 
thick on a stewpan cover, hold the cover in the left hand 
over the frying kettle, dip the hooked handle of a kitchen 
ladle in the hot fat, and with it detach portions of the 
paste, the size of a walnut, and let them drop in the hot . 
fat. When the paste has been all used, push" the kettle on 
the fire, and stir the fritters with the skimmer till done, 
which can be ascertained by trying them with the finger ; 
if found of an even yellow colour, and firm to the touch, 
they are ready ; then drain them on a wire sieve, sprinkle 
with pounded sugar, dish on a hot napkin, and serve. 

Note. — The fat for frying sweet fritters must be quite 
fresh, and only used for frying similar sweet dishes, and on 
no account should fat be used in which fish has been fried. 

816. BROWN-BREAD PUDDING. 

Ingredients required : Three quarters of a pound of 
brown-bread crumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six eggs, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 403 

half a pint of whipped cream, a little grated lemon rind, 
a pinch of cinnamon powder, one pound of morella cherries, 
and a good pinch of salt. 

Mix the bread crumbs, sugar, the yolks of eggs, lemon, 
cinnamon, salt, and whipped cream, well together in a basin, 
then add the whisked whites of six eggs, and set it aside. 
Spread a plain mould with butter, strew it with brown- 
bread crumbs, and put a large spoonful of the mixture 
at the bottom of the mould ; then arrange a layer of cherries 
upon it, cover these with some of the mixture, then another 
layer of cherries, and so on till all has been put in the 
mould. This must now be placed in a moderately-heated 
oven to bake for about an hour. When done turn it out 
of the mould on a dish, pour some cherry sauce around, 
and serve. 



817. SEMOLINA PUDDING. 

Ingredients : Twelve ounces of semolina flour, six 
ounces of pounded sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
sis eggs, a pint of good milk, a tablespoonful of orange- 
flower water, and a pinch of salt. 

Mix the semolina with the sugar, orange-flower water, 
the half of the butter, two eggs, milk, and salt, in a stewpan 
over the fire until it boils ; continue stirring till the paste 
is perfectly smooth and ceases to adhere to the sides of the 
pan, when it must be withdrawn from the .fire, and the 
remainder of the eggs and butter added gradually and 
well mixed with the paste ; then spread the inside of a 
mould with butter, fill it with the paste, put the bottom of 
the mould in a deep saut^-pan half filled with boiling water, 
place in the oven to bake for about an hour and a quarter. 
When done, turn the pudding out of the mould on a hot 
dish, pour either a custard or fruit sauce over, and serve. 



404 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



818. CABINET PUDDING. 

This pudding is made with sponge cake. Spread the 
inside of a plain mould with butter, stone two ounces of 
raisins, pick, wash, and dry the same quantity of currants, 
cut in small dice about an ounce of candied citron and two 
ounces of dried cherries ; lay at the bottom of the mould 
some of the mixed fruit, on these lay some slices of sponge 
cake, and continue alternate layers till the mould is two- 
thirds full. Then beat the yolks of six eggs for about a 
minute, and add while stirring a pint of boiled milk, half 
a gill of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar. 
When the lot is well mixed together, p&,ss slowly through 
a tammy into the mould ; let it thus stand for a few minutes, 
after which cook the pudding in a bain-marie for half an 
hour, then turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and 
serve with a custard sauce or a sauce made as follows : — 
Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan with half a pint 
of syrup, stir this over the fire until the sauce coats the 
spoon, then add a gill of brandy, or some other liqueur, 
pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour it over the 
pudding before serving. 

819. CHESTNUT PUDDING, 

Peel and boil two pounds of fine chestnuts, remove the 
second skin, and rub the pulp through a fine wire sieve ; 
place the pur^e in a stewpan with a pint of milk or cream, 
two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, and a pinch of salt ; stir the 
lot over the fire until the mixture thickens, then quicken 
the stirring so as to prevent the contents from adhering 
to the bottom of the pan, and as soon as it detaches itself 
from the sides of the said pan remove it from the fire, add 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 405 

the yolks of six eggs, properly beaten, and the whites of 
four, whipped firm. When these have been well mixed 
together with the spoon, pour it into a plain mould well 
spread with butter, and boil in a bain-marie for about 
an hour. When done, turn the pudding carefully out of 
the mould into a hot dish, and serve with a little apricot 
jam, previously warmed and diluted for the purpose. 

820. GINGER PUDDING. 

Put a pint of good milk into a stewpan on the fire, with 
a quarter of a pound each of sugar and butter, and a pinch 
of salt. As soon as it boils, draw the stewpan from the 
fire ; sprinkle six ounces of flour. Stir the whole together, 
put it back on the fire, stirring the while for five minutes 
longer, then remove the pan from the fire ; add gradually, one 
by one while stirring, six eggs and six ounces of preserved 
ginger cut into small pieces. Mix the lot well together, 
spread a mould with butter, pour the mixture in it, and 
cook in a bain-marie for about an hour and a half ; then 
turn the pudding out of the mould into a hot dish, and 
serve with custard sauce, made with syrup from the ginger, 
poured over it. 

821. LEMON PUDDING. 

Eub on sugar the peel of four lemons, put this with the 
juice of two in a basin with a pint of good milk, the yolks 
of eight eggs, and the whites of three whisked,- a quarter 
of a nutmeg grated, a good pinch of cinnamon powder, a 
small pinch of salt, and six ounces of pounded sugar. Mix 
the lot well together with a wooden spoon, after which put 
a border of puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, spread 
the inside with, butter, pour the mixture into it, and put 
in a moderately-heated oven to bake for about half an hour. 
When done, shake over some sifted sugar, and serve. 



4o6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

822.. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Cut about a pound of thin slices of bread and butter, and 
put them in a pie-dish, which must only be half full, 
together with a quarter of a pound of well-washed and 
dried currants, and two ounces of chopped candied citron 
between the slices. Boil one pint of milk with the peel 
of a lemon, a pinch of salt, and six ounces of sugar ; break 
four eggs into a basin beat them up with a fork, then 
add the milk gradually to them. Strain the lot through 
a tammy into the pie dish ; let it soak thus for ten minutes, 
and bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. When 
done, shake over the top some sifted sugar, and serve. 

823. COLLEGE PUDDING. 

Chop up three-quarters of a pound of beef marrow, and 
put it in a basin with one ounce each of candied lemon, 
orange peel, and candied citron, all chopped coarse, also half 
a pound of well-washed and dried currants, half a pound of 
bread crumbs, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar ; 
mix these well together with the hands, then add three 
eggs, half a gill of brandy and one of sherry ; work the lot 
well together with a wooden spoon ; butter two . moulds 
slightly, put the mixture in them, and bake the puddings 
in a moderately-heated oven for half an hour. When 
done, turn the puddings out of the moulds on to a hot 
dish, and serve with a sauce made as follows : — Put the 
yolks of three eggs into a stewpan with one ounce of 
pounded sugar and a gill of sherry ; whisk the eggs over 
the JBre without boiling ; when the sauce thickens, pour it 
over the puddings, and serve. 

824. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put a pint of milk into a stewpan with six ounces of 
tapioca, three ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, a pinch 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 407 

of salt, and the grated rind of half a lemon ; stir the lot 
over the fire till it boils, then cover the stewpan and let it 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, after which draw the 
stewpan from the fire^ add the yolks of three eggs, and the 
whites of two whipped; mix the lot well together, and 
pour it into a pie-dish previously spread with butter, put 
the pudding in a moderately-heated oven to bake for about 
half an hou;p, and serve. 

Note. — Sago, semolina, rice, vermicelli^ macaroni, and 
tagliateUi can be prepared and baked in the same manner, 
and vaniUa or orange-flower water essence substituted for 
lemon rind. 

825. RICE PUDDING. 

Wash half a pound of Italian rice, and boil it for fifteen 
minutes in a stewpan with a pint and a half of good milk, 
a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, and 
a small stick of vanilla or any other flavouring, after which 
draw the stewpan from the fire, add the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, mix the lot well together, and pour it 
into a pie-dish previously buttered ; bake in a well-heated 
oven for twenty minutes, and serve. 

826. PLUM PUDDING. 

Put in a large basin three-quarters of a pound each of 
picked and finely-chopped beef suet, stoned raisins, well- 
washed and picked currants, moist sugar, bread crumbs, 
peeled russet apples, with the cores removed and cut in 
small dice, and a quarter of a pound each of candied 
citron, orange, and lemon, all cut in small dice. Mix 
these thoroughly with three pounded cloves, a good 
pinch each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt, a gill of sherry, 
half a gill of brandy, and four eggs, one at a time. When 
the lot has been, well worked together with the hands, it 



4o8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

should remain in a cool place for at least six hours 
before setting the pudding to boil. I advise the mixture 
to be made the day before the pudding is required. Then 
a pudding basin must be buttered and filled with the 
mixture. . Fasten a strong cloth over the top (previously 
spread with butter or flour) by bringing the four ends 
round the bottom of the basin, where they must be tied 
securely. Meanwhile have a stock-pot, with about six 
quarts or more of boiling water, ready on the stove ; place 
a strong stick or iron bar across the pot, hang the pud- 
ding to it with strings to prevent the basin touching the 
bottom of the pot, and let it boil for at least six hours, 
(if more all the better), taking care to replenish the pot 
with boiling water when wanted. 

When done, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a 
hot dish, sprinkle it with pounded sugar, pour half a pint 
of warm, brandy or rum over it before serving, and light 
with a match when the pudding is on the table. 

Note. — The following sauce is a very good substitute for 
rum or brandy : — Put the yolks of four eggs into a stew- 
pan with two ounces of pounded sugar; a gill of sherry or 
any other white wine, the peel of half a lemon rubbed on 
sugar, and a small pinch of salt. Whisk this sharply 
over a slow fire until it assumes a frothy appearance, then 
pour it over the pudding. 
> 
827. ROLEY-POLEY PUDDING. 

Pick and chop very fine one pound of beef suet, put it 
in a basin with one pound of flour and a good pinch of 
salt, mix these to a stiffish paste with about three gills 
of cold water, then roll it out to a quarter of an inch 
thick and of an oblong shape ; spread any kind of jam 
on the paste, and roll this round to the form of a long 
roll. EoU the pudding afterwards in a buttered cloth, tie 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLP COOKERY. 409 

both ends up tightly with string, and tie it with string 
lengthways, to keep it in shape ; then drop it in plenty 
of boiling water, and let it boil for about an hour aud a 
half. When done, turn the pudding carefully out of the 
cloth, put it on a hot dish, and serve. 

828. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

Make half a -pound of suet paste as described in the 
previous number, line a pudding-basin with it, and fill it 
up with picked gooseberries ; spread a layer of moist or 
btown sugar over the fruit, cover this with a round of 
paste, and tie a cloth tightly over the top, then set it in a 
stewpan full of boiling water to boil for an hour and a 
quarter; when done, remove the cloth, turn the pudding 
out of the basin on to a hot dish, spread some brown sugar 
over, and serve. 

Note. — Currant and raspberry pudding, cherry, apricot, 
greengage, damson, and black currant puddings, are all 
made in the same way. 

829. APPLE PUDDING. 

Line a pudding basin with half a pound of suet paste 
made as in the foregoing, then cut some cooking apples 
in quarters, peel, core, and fill the basin with them, add 
two or three clores and a little chojjped lemon peel, spread 
a layer of moist sugar. Cover the apples with paste, then 
tie the top with a cloth. Boil and serve the pudding as 
directed above. 

830. PANCAKES. 

Mix half a pound of flour in a basin with a tablespoonf ul 
of pounded sugar, a small pinch of salt, a gill of milk, 
and three eggs. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan 
with three gills of milk on the fire, and add it gradually 



4IO PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

to the paste in the basin, so as to make a smooth batter ; 
if found to be too thick, a little more milk must be added ; 
melt a quarter of a poUnd of fresh butter in a small stew- 
pan, and keep it by the side of the fire. Warm a pancake- 
pan, butter it with a brush dipped in the melted butter, 
then pour in some of the batter so as to cover the bottom 
of the pan when spread.- Fry the pancake until it is 
coloured on one side, then toss it over to colour it on the 
other side; when done, slip on to a hot dish, shake over 
some sifted sugar, and roll it up. Repeat the same thing 
till all the batter is used up ; lay the pancakes in close 
circular order in double or treble rows, and serve them 
very hot, with some cut lemons on a plate. 

Note. — The batter can be flavoured .with a dessert- 
spoonful of orange-flower water. 

831. PANCAKES WITH JAM. 

Prepare a batter as in the foregoing, and as each pancake 
is fried spread any kind of jam upon it, roll it up, and 
place on a dish in the oven; when all the pancakes are 
fried, sprinkle some pounded sugar over them, glaze them 
with a red-hot salamander, dish up on a napkin as before 
described, and serve. 

832. OMELET S0UFFL|. 

Separate the whites- of six eggs from the yolks, put the 
whites in the egg-bowl, and the yolks in a basin with a 
quarter of a pound of pounded sugar and a teaspoonful of 
orange-flower water or any other essence, or the grated 
peel of a lemon ; mix these well with a wooden spoon for 
five minutes, then whip the white of the eggs to a firm froth 
nnd mix them lightly with the yolks, after which butter a 
silver or baking-dish, pour the egg mixture over as lightly 
as possible, smooth over in the form of a dome with a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 411 

knife, and put it in a moderately-heated oven to bake for 
ten or twelve, minutes ; when ready shake over the omelet 
some pounded sugar, and send it immediately to the table. 

'Note. — All souffles should, as soon as taken out of the 
oven, be at once sent to the table, and in order that this 
should be done with success, the servant must wait in the 
kitchen for it, otherwise if the souffle is left too long, even 
in the oven, it will coUapse and get spoiled. 

833. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLI 

Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate into pieces, put 
it in a stewpan over the fire with a gill of milk, and work 
with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste, then add a 
quarter of a pound of flour, two ounces of pounded sugar, 
a small pinch of salt, and three gills of milk. Stir this to 
a nice batter, then add the yolks of six eggs, two at a time, 
and mix well, after which whisk the whites of six eggs into 
a firm froth, and add them lightly v^'ith the paste ; butter 
a dish as in the previous number, pour the batter into it, 
and arrange it as described in the foregoing ; then put it 
in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes, sprinkle over 
some sifted sugar, and serve the souffl6 at once. 

834. VANILLA S0UFFL6. 

Boil a pint of milk and let it get cold, then mix with it 
a quarter of a pound of flour, three ounces of sugar, two 
ounces of vanilla sugar, and a small pinch of salt. Stir this 
over the fire until it boils ; then withdraw the stewpan from 
the fire, add the yolks of six eggs, mixing in only two at 
a time, and when properly mixed add the whites of the 
eggs previously whisked firm, and proceed to bake the 
souffle as described for chocolate souffle, and serve 
quickly. 



412 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

835, COFFEE SOUFFL^. 

Put a quarter of a pound of roasted coffee beans into a 
stewpan with a pint and a half of boiling milk, let it boil 
for two minutes ; cover the stewpan closely, and let it thus 
stand for an hour, after which strain the milk through a 
pointed strainer, and with it proceed to make a batter as 
described for vanilla souffle with similar ingredients, but 
omit the vanilla sugar; bake. and serve the souffle in the 
same way, 

836. CHEESE SOUFFL^. 

Grate a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese, and half 
that quantity of Gruyfere cheese ; mix a quarter of a pound 
of flour in a stewpan over the fire with a pint of milk, a 
teaspopnf ul of salt, and two pinches of pepper until it boils, 
then withdraw the stewpan ; mix in the grated cheese and 
the yolks of six eggs, added two at a time. Whip the 
whites of the six eggs very fine, mix them lightly to the 
paste, and pour into a buttered dish to bake in a 
moderately-heated oven for about twenty minutes, and 
serve immediately as previously described, 

837. RICE SOUFFLE. 

Wash a quarter of a pound of Italian rice, then drain 
and put it in a stewpan, with a pint and a half of mUk, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, two ounces of vanilla sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Simmer the lot very gently for an 
hour, afterwards let the rice cool a little, and mix in the 
yolks of six eggs, one at a time. Whip firm the whites of 
the six eggs, and mix them lightly in the rice ; then pour 
the lot into a buttered dish, and put it in a moderately- 
heated oven to bake for twenty minutes. Shake some 
sifted sugar over the souffi^, and serve at once. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 413 

838. OMELET WITH RUM. 
Break six eggs in a basin, add a teaspoonful of pounded 
sugar, and a small pinch of salt, beat these with a fork, 
and fry the omelet as described in No. 253. When cooked, 
fold on a dish. Sprinkle some sugar over the omelet, glaze 
with a red-hot iron poker, pour a gill of hot rum over, set 
fire to it, and serve alight. 

839. OMELET WITH APRICOT JAM. 

Break six eggs as in No. 838, add a good pinch of pounded 
sugar and a small one of salt, beat, and fry the omelet 
with two ounces of good butter, as described ; before folding 
lay three spoonfuls of apricot jam in the centre, then fold 
the sides of the omelet over the jam, turn it on a hot dish, 
sprinkle over with sugar, pass a red-hot iron or poker over 
it, and serve. 

Note. — Any kind of jam or preserve may be substituted 
for apricot jam, and sweet omelets should be served rather 
moist in the centre. 

840. SNOW EGGS. 

Boil a quart of milk in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Meanwhile break 
six eggs, put the yolks in a basin and the whites in the 
egg-bowl, whip to a firm froth, then mix in a quarter of a 
pound of sifted sugar, and with a spoon drop some of this 
mixture, about the size of an egg, into the boiling milk. 
When six spoonfuls have thus been dropped, put the stew- 
pan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for 
four minutes, turning the whites over when they are set, 
on one side, and when quite firm, on both sides, drain them 
on a sieve ; repeat the process till all the white mixture 
is used J let the milk cool a little to make a plain custard 



414 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with, then add the six yolks of beaten eggs and two ounces 
of sugar, "stir over the fire till the same begins to thicken 
and forming a coating on the spoon. Withdraw the stew- 
pan from the stove, stir for three minutes longer, then 
strain the sauce through a pointed strainer, and when 
quite cold, dish up the eggs in a pyramidal form, pour the 
custard sauce over, and serve. 

841. STEWED APPLES. 

Peel eight cooking apples, core and cut them in halves ; 
place them in a stewpan with a quart of water, half a 
pound of loaf sugar, four cloves, and the peel of a lemon. 
Set them to simmer very gently till the apples are done, 
taking care to turn them over when half cooked, then take 
them out with the skimmer and dish up nicely. Mean- . 
while reduce the syrup by quick boiling, strain it over the 
apples, and serve. 

Nate. — Stewed fruit can be served both hot and cold, 
but the latter is the best. In that case the syrup should 
only be poured over the fruit when cold, and just before 
serving. 

842. STEWED PEARS. 

Peel very smooth eight stewing pears, and put them 
whole with their stalks, in a stewpan with a quart of water, 
half a pound of loaf sugar, a little prepared cochineal, and 
a small piece of stick of vanilla. Simmer very gently for 
about an hour (more or less according to the quality and 
size of the pears), let them cool in their syrup, then dish 
up; reduce the syrup quickly by half, and when cold, and 
just before serving, pour it over the pears and serve. 

843. STEWED PLUMS. 

Select a pound of nice plums ; wash and put them in a 
stewpan with enough water to cover them well, add 'two 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 415 

ounces of loaf sugar and a piece of cinnamon, simmer for 
about forty minutes ; when done, dish them up, add two 
ounces of loaf sugar to the syrup, and reduce it by half over 
a brisk fire ; then strain it, and when cold, and just before 
sending to the table, pour the syrup over the plums and 
serve. 

844. STEWED GREENGAGES. 
Select two dozen fine greengages, and put them in a 
copper sugar-boiler, with half a pound of loaf sugar and 
three-quarters of a pint of water ; when boiling, cover the 
pan, and let it simmer for ten minutes ; then take the 
greengages out and dish them up, reduce the syrup by 
half, and when cold, pour it over the fruit, and serve. 

845. STEWED MIRABELLE PLDMS. 

Select three dozen Mirabelle plums, put them in a copper 
sugar-boiler, with six ounces of lump sugar and three- 
quarters of a pint of water. Boil and finish as in the 
foregoing. 

846. STEWED APRICOTS. 

Pick a dozen not over-ripe apricots ; cut them in halves, 
remove the stones, break them, take the almonds out, and 
blanch and peel them. Put half a pint of water, with 
six ounces of lump sugar, in a copper sugar-boiler ; boil it, 
put in the apricots, and simmer for five minutes, then dish 
them up ; reduce the syrup by half, and when cold pour it 
over the apricots, place half an almond taken from the 
stones on each piece of apricot, and serve. 

847. STEWED CHERRIES. 

Pick a pound of cherries ; put a quarter of a pound of 
lump sugar in a copper sugar-boiler with one quart of 
water, boil this, and put the cherries in. Cover the pan, 



4i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and simmer for five minutes ; after which dish the cherries, 
reduce the syrup by half, let it cool, pour it over the 
cherries, and serve. 



848. STEWED FRUIT WITH RICE. 

Any kind'of stewed fruit can be served with rice ; this 
is a great improvement to the fruit, and makes it, at the 
same time, a more substantial sweet dish. Blanch half a 
pound of rice in boiling water for three or four minutes, 
cool it in cold water, drain, and put into a stewpan with 
a quart of milk and one ounce of sugar ; boU gently until 
the rice is done, then lay it at the bottom of a dish, dress 
the stewed fruit on it in a circle, pour over the lot the 
syrup in which the fruit was cooked, and serve. 

Note. — The process of cooking the rice for stewed fruit 
is alwaj's the same, and can be served with as much taste 
and style hgt as well as cold. 

849. STEWED DRIED FRENCH PLUMS. 

Soak two pounds of dried French plums for a couple of 
hours in plenty of cold water, then strain and put them 
in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, add 
the peel of a lemon, a piece of cinnamon, and half a pound 
of broken lump sugar to it; set the stewpah on the fire 
to simmer gently for about two hours, or till the plums 
are soft to the touch; when they are done enough, add 
half a pint of claret ; give this a slight stir over the fire, 
and as soon as a white scum begins to form on the top, 
draw the stewpan from the fire, pour the contents in a 
basin to get cold, and serve properly dished up with its 
syrup. 

Noie. — Rice boiled as in No. 848 is also a great improve- 
ment wbpii served with stewed plums. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 417 

850. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Peel and core twelve or fifteen nice cooking apples, cut 
them in thin slices, put them in a saut6-pan with two or 
three ounces of pounded sugar, and a quarter of a pound 
of fresh butter, previously melted; toss the apples over the 
fire till they are soft to the touch, but not cooked. Take a 
plain round mould, cut some thin slices of crumb of bread, 
one of about one incji and a half round, some heart-shape 
pieces, and some narrow strips the height of the mould. 
Melt some fresh butter in a stewpan, dip the round and 
heart-shape pieces in it ; place the round one in the centre 
at the bottom of the mould, and the heart-pieces round it 
overlapping each other, and the points resting on the 
round piece ; dip the strips of bread in butter, and stand 
them round the sides of the mould, also overlaying one 
another. Fill the lined mould with the apple, and put it 
in a hot oven to bake until the bread is crisp and of an 
even yellow colour ; then turn the charlotte out of the 
mould on to a napkin on a dish, and serve hot. 

85L PEAR CHARLOTTE. 

Proceed for this as in the foregoing, but substitute pears 
for apples, and add a little vanilla sugar to the saut6-pan 
when cooking the pears, then fiU up the mould. Bake it 
ill the oven, and serve as above. 

852. COFFEE CUSTARDS. (^ C^^X 0. ^-V- 

For six custard-cups, boil three cupfuls of milk witJbi ono 
ounce and a quarter of pounded sugar, and when, a little 
cool, mix the yolks of five eggs, a small pinch of salt, and 
one cup of strong black coffee ; when these have been well 
mixed together, strain it through a silk sieve; have some 
boiling water in a shallow stewpan. Fill the six custard 

2 D 



4i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cups with the custard, place them in the stewpan with 
boiling water, set this over a slow fire Tor the water to 
simmer' only very gently ; put the cover on the stewjjan 
and some live coals on the cover. 

When the custards are set, take off the cover, let them 
cool in the water ; then wipe the cups, put them on a dish, 
and serve. 

853. CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. 

Proceed with the number of custards as directed in the 
foregoing, mixing the milk with three ounces of melted 
chocolate instead of cofEee, and finish in every way the 
sama 

Note. — Custards flavoured either witli vanilla, orange- 
flower water, or lemon-peel are made and set in the same 
way as the above. 

854. MINCE-MEAT. 

Pick, wash, and dry three pounds of currants; stone 
three pounds of raisins ; cut one pound of russet apples in 
quarters, peel and core them ; finely chop half a pound each 
of candied orange peel, lemon-peel, and candied citron cut 
in thin slices ; chop up the raisins and apples and mix well 
the lot together in a basin. 

Pick and' chop very finely one pound of beef suet and one 
pound of roast lean beef ; add both to the basin with the 
fruit, together with one pound of pounded sugar, one ounce 
of ground cinnamon, half an ounce of lemon-peel chopped 
very fine, half an ounce each of pounded cloves and allspice, 
and a quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg; mix the 
whole well together, moistening with half a pint of sherry 
and a pint of brandy. Put the mince-meat into jars and 
tie closely down with brown paper. 

Note. — Mince-meat should be made at least a fortnight 
before using it ; and if a month, all the better. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 419 

855. MINCE PIES. 
Make a puff paste of six turns (No. 318), roll it out thin, 
and with it line some small tartlet-moulds ; fill them with 
mince-meat, cover them, with a similar rolled paste, press 
and cut them round, then egg them over with a paste- 
brush dipped in yolks ; cut a small pattern on the top, and 
bake in a weU-heated oven for about a quarter of an hour. 
When done take out of the moulds, dish up, and serve. 

856. CLARIFIED SYRUP FOR JELLIES. 

Whatever quantity of syrup may be required, put three 
gills of cold water to one pound of finest loaf-sugar into 
a copper sugar-boiler, and half the white of an egg, whipped 
with a little water ; whisk the lot together on the fire 
until it boils, then pour a few drops of cold water to enable 
the scum to rise, which must at once be removed with a 
silver spoon ; let the syrup simmer gently, until the whole 
of the scum has been thrown up and removed, adding a 
little more cold water if necessary ; then strain the syrup 
through a napkin or jelly-bag into a basin and put by in 
a cool place for use. 

857. LEMON JELLY. 

Oalf's-foot, isinglass, and gelatine are the foundations 
or basis of all kinds of jellies, bavarois creams, and blanc- 
mange. 

I have already described the manner of making a plain 
calf's-foot jelly (No. 227), which is the most wholesome 
stiffening to use. Isinglass is the best, being prepared 
from the bladder of sturgeons. It is perhaps the purest 
and cleanest, but it is also the dearest; consequently 
gelatine is generally the stiffening used, on account of its 
lower cost. 



420 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Put two ounces of gelatine in a stewpan -with three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar and the juice of two 
lemons. Whisk the whites of two eggs in a basin, mix 
them with a quart of water, and pour the whole into the 
stewpan with the gelatine ; stir the liquid over the fire with 
the whisk, until it boils ; then take the stewpan off the fire, 
let it cool for a few minutes ; after which, pour the contents 
into the jelly-bag over the yellow peel of four lemons to 
strain, pour it back again, and again, until it is quite clear. 

Should, there be no jelly-bag and frame handy, a kitchen 
stool upside down, with a fine diaper broth-napkin, previously 
rinsed in hot water, tied to the four legs, and a bain-marie 
put underneath to receive the strained jelly, will make 
a very good substitute for a jelly-bag and stand, but the 
proper jelly-bag is to be preferred. 

Press out or squeeze the juice of six lemons ; strain 
through a silk sieve and filter with some filtering or white 
blotting paper into a water-bottle or decanter. Meanwhile 
have a three-pint jelly-mould in about three inches of 
broken rough ice, mix the filtered juice with the jelly, 
pour it in the mould, and let it set for some two hours. 
When the jelly is set firm, ten minutes before sending 
to the table, dip the mould in warm water, wipe with a 
cloth, shake it gently, so as to free the jelly from the 
mould without breaking, and turn it out carefully on a 
dish. 

Note. — As there are several kinds of gelatine with more 
or less stiffening power, it is advisable, after having clarified 
the jelly, to try a httle in the ice first, to see if it be too 
stiff, in which case a little more syrup may be added. 

858. STRAWBERRY JELLY. 
Pick the stalks off one pound and a half of nice ripe 
strawberries, and put them into a basin ; boil three pints of 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 421 

clarified syrup and let it cool five minutes; then pour it 
over the strawberries ; cover the basin closely and let them 
steep thus for an hour ; after which, filter the syrup through 
a jelly-bag. Meanwhile melt two ounces of gelatine on 
the fire with a little water, strain in the usual way, and 
when cool mix it with the strawberry syrup. Set a three- 
pint jelly-mould in plenty of rough ice, pour in a quarter- 
inch layer of syrup and let it set slightly ; then arrange a 
few fine picked strawberries on it, pour in one or two 
spoonfuls of syrup to keep the strawberries in position, and 
let it set ; then pour some more syrup in the mould, and 
when this layer is set, arrange another row of strawberries, 
and continue the process till the mould is full ; place a 
baking-sheet on the mould with some ice on the top, and 
let it stand thus, for a couple of hours j when perfectly 
firm, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish, after 
having dipped it in warm water, as previously described, 
and serve. 

859. OBANGE JELLY. 

Prepare this jelly as directed for lemon jelly, substi- 
tuting orange juice and peel for the lemon, and put a 
quarter of a pound less of loaf-sugar. 

860. MADEIRA JELLY. 

Mix one pint of clarified calt's-foot jelly with three gills 
of clarified syrup in a sugar-boiler on the fire, and when 
boiling draw the pan away and let it cool ; after which, add 
half a pint of Madeira with a few drops of prepared cochi- 
neal and a tablespoonful of filtered lemon-juice ; mix the 
lot thoroughly well, and pour into a mould properly 
imbedded in the ice ; put a baking- sheet with some ice 
on the top and let it set for two hours ; after which, turn 
the jelly out of the mould on a dish, as described in the 
foregoing, and serve. 



42 2 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Note. — All liqueur and wine jellies are prepared ns 
directed above j but in cases of sweet liqueurs such as 
curagao, Maraschino, creme.de noyeau, parfait amour, &c., 
&o., the proportions of syrup should be decreased by half 
a gill, and the liqueur increased by the same quantity. 

861. BLANC-MANGER FLAVOURED WITH ALMONDS, 

Blanch ten ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter 
almonds for two minutes ; drain and remove the skins, then 
pound them in a mortar; moisten with a few drops of 
water; put the paste in a basin with a pint of water, 
cover the basin closely with a sheet of kitchen paper, 
twisted round the border of the basin, and let it stand 
thus in a cool place for about an hour ; after which, strain 
the milk from off the almonds through a napkin with 
pressure by wringing it at both ends over a basin. 

Melt two and a half ounces of gelatine with half a pound 
of sugar and one pint and three-quarters of water in a 
stewpan ; stir over the fire till the gelatine is melted, then 
strain it through a silk sieve, and when cold add it to the 
strained. almond milk with a teaspoonful of orange-flour 
water; mix the lot well together and pour into a three- 
pint mould, properly imbedded in ice, as described for 
lemon jelly ; let it remain in the ice for a couple of hours, 
after which, turn the blanc-manger.out of the mould in the 
same style as a jelly, and serve. 

862. COFFEE BAVAROIS CREAM. 
Put a quarter of a pound of freshly roasted coffee-beans 
into a stewpan with a pint and a half of boiling milk, cover 
the pan and put it aside for two hours, to allow the milk 
to infuse and draw all the flavour of the coffee. Break the 
yolks of eight eggs into a stewpan, add ten ounces of pounded 
sugar ; mix these well together with a wooden spoon, and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 423 

when the milk infusion is ready, strain and add it to the 
yolks of eggs ; stir the lot over the fire with a wooden spoon 
till the cream or custard begins to thicken, but avoid boiling 
it, and when it coats the spoon take it off the fire and stir 
for two minutes longer. Meanwhile have ready one ounce 
and a half of gelatine, previously steeped in cold water for 
a quarter of an hour ; drain and mix it with the hot 
cream, the heat of which will be sufficient to melt it. When 
this .is done, strain the whole through a pointed strainer 
into a basin ; put this on about six pounds of broken rough 
ice, and stir all the time till the contents begin to set ; then 
whip a pint of double cream, remove the basin from the 
ice, and mix in the whipped cream lightly. Pour the 
mixture into a three-pint mould and return it to the 
broken icej cover the mould with a stewpan-cover, with 
ice on the top, and let it remain thus in a cool place for 
about an hour and a half; then when wanted, dip the 
mould entirely into a basin of water as hot as the hand 
can bear, take it out quickly and wipe the top of the 
cream with a clean cloth, then put a dish over the mould ; 
reverse and remove it, and serve. 

863. VANILLA BAVAROIS CREAM. 
Put half a stick of vanilla in a stewpan with one pint 
of boiling cream ; cover the pan and let it steep for a 
couple of hours. Break eight yolks of eggs in a stewpan, 
mix in half a pound of pounded sugar and the vanilla 
cream when ready; stir these over the fire until the 
custard coats the spoon, without boiling; then add one 
ounce and three-quarters of drained gelatine, previously 
steeped in cold water for fifteen minutes ; stir till melted, 
and strain the lot through, a pointed strainer into a basin ; 
put this on broken ice and stir the contents until it begins 
to set, then mix in lightly one pint and a half of whipped 



424 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

double cream. Fill a mould with the mixture, put it in 
the ice, cover the mould with the lid of a stewpan with ice 
on the top, and after two hours the cream will be set, and 
can be turned out of the mould in the same manner as 
the foregoing, and serve. 

864. CHOCOLATE BAVAROIS CREAM. 
This cream is made in the same way as the above, merely 
substituting a quarter of a pound of chocolate instead of 
vanilla to the boiling cream. 

865. STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Pick the stalks off one pound of strawberries and rub the 
fruit through a silk sieve or tammy into a basin ; mix in 
half a pound of pounded sugar and the juice of a lemon ; 
steep one ounce and a half of gelatine for fifteen minutes 
in cold water, dissolve it in a small stewpan on the fire 
with a little water, and strain it through a pointed strainer 
into the strawberry pulp. Whisk a pint and a half of 
double cream, and proceed to finish it as for vanilla cream. 

Note. — Raspberries and red currants are prepared in the 
same manner as the above. 

A copper sugar-boiler should always be used to prepare 
red fruit, as tinned stewpans will destroy their colour. 

866. CREAM A LA ROMAINE. 

Blanch four ounces of Jordan with one ounce of bitter 
almonds ; remove the skins, wipe them dry, and chop 
them rather fine ; put these in a sugar-boiler, and stir 
them over the fire with a wooden spoon until they have 
acquired a light-brown colour ; then throw them into a pint 
of milk, kept boiling for that purpose ; add to it six 
ounces of sugar and eight yolks of eggs ; stir the whole 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 425 

quickly until the yolks are set. Kemove the boiler from 
the fire, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer ; 
then add one ounce and a half of melted gelatine (see 
Strawberry Cream) ; after which, rub the lot through a 
tammy, like a pur^e, into a basin ; mix in lightly a pint of 
whipped cream ; pour the mixture into a mould, and put it 
in the ice to set, as previously described. 

867. MERINGUES. 

Meringues, if put in a dry place, can be kept a long 
time, and may often be served with advantage as a sweet, 
if filled with either whipped cream or preserve ; therefore, 
whenever whites of eggs are to be had, they should be 
employed for the purpose. 

Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a firm white froth ; 
then with a table-spoon mix very lightly one pound of 
sifted sugar, taking care not to work the froth too much, 
for fear of softening it. Cut some stiff white kitchen 
paper into strips two inches wide, and with a table-spoon 
gather the froth nearly full, by shaping it up at the side 
of the bowl in the form of an egg, and drop it upon one 
of the bands of paper, at the same time drawing the edge 
of the spoon sharply round the outer base of the meringue, 
so as to give it a smooth and oval appearance, in order 
that it may resemble an egg; proceed in this manner 
until the froth is all used up, keeping the meringues about 
two inches apart from each other. As each band is filled, 
place them close to each other on boards of about an inch 
thick, made for that purpose with well-seasoned wood, 
and cut, of course, to the size of the oven ; sprinkle some 
sifted sugar over the meringues, and put them in a very 
moderately heated oven to bake of a light fawn-colour. 
When done, each meringue must be carefully removed from 
the pnper. Scoop out the white part of the inside with a 



426 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

dessert-spoon, place them in neat order on a baking-sheet, 
and return them to a very slack oven to dry, taking care 
not to let them acquire any more colour. 

When cold, they can be stored away in a box in a dry 
place ; and when wanted, whip some double cream, season 
it with a little pounded sugar and either a few drops of 
orange-flower water or a little pounded vanilla; garnish 
each meringue with a tablespoonful of this cream ; join 
two together, dish them up in a pyramidal form on a 
napkin upon a dish, and serve. 

Note. — Currant jelly or any kind of marmalade can be 
substituted for whipped cream, but a teaspoonful of either 
will be found sufficient. 

868. HOW TO FREEZE ICES. 

In order to be able to freeze ices, creams, &c., it is 
necessary to have at hand an ice-tub with a hole and peg 
to it, an ice-pot or freezer, and an ioe-s paddle. A freezer 
with two or three partitions is the best adapted for family 
use, as by that means two or three sorts of ices can be 
made at the same time, without extra tubs and rough ice. 

The freezer, properly cleaned, must be put in the centre 
of the tub, in a cool place, surrounded with roughly pounded 
ice, mixed with three or four handfuls of common or bay 
salt, within two inches of the top of the freezer. Pour in 
the mixture intended for freezing, lay a piece of white paper 
across the top, and put the lid on ; then begin to turn the 
freezer by the handle of the lid from right to left for about , 
twenty minutes, when the lid must be taken off to see if 
the mixture begins to freeze at the sides ; work this with 
the spaddle by pushing it in the centre, and continue 
turning the pot every two seconds; put the lid on and 
repeat the turning until the mixture is firmly set ; then 
draw the water off by taking out the peg; replenish it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 427 

with fresh ice and a handful of salt, place a damp piece of 
flannel over the top, and keep it in a very cool place until 
wanted. 

869. LEMON WATER ICES. 

Rub off the rind of two lemons on some lumps of sugar ; 
add the juice of ten lemons, a pint and a half of clarified 
syrup (No. 856), and half a pint of plain water. Mix 
thoroughly and strain through a hair sieve, and freeze as 
previously described. 

870. CHERRY-WATER ICE. 

Pick off the stalks of two pounds of cherries, pound 
them in a mortar with their stones ; rub them through a 
tammy; then add the strained juice of three lemons, one 
pint and a half of clarified syrup, and half a pint of water. 
Mix and freeze as in No. 868. 

871. ICED VANILLA CREAM. 

Boil in a stewpan- one quart of cream ; put in it two 
sticks of vanilla, split lengthwise in four; when boiling, 
cover the stewpan and let the cream infuse for an hour. 

Break eight yolks of eggs in a stewpan, add ten ounces 
of pounded sugar, and stir them together with a wooden 
spoon ; after which, mix in the vanilla cream and stir over 
the fire without boiling until the cream coats the spoon, 
then strain it through a tammy into a basin and let it get 
cold, giving it an occasional stir to prevent a skin forming 
on the top. When cold pour it in the freezer previously 
set in the ice (see No. 868), work it in the usual way, and 
when it is set, mix in half a pint of whipped double cream, 
close the freezer, continue turning it, as described in 
" How to Freeze," then cover the freezer and put it by till 
wanted. 



428 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

To dish ices, particular care must be taken, after having 
removed the flannel from the tub, to wipe around the top 
of the freezer with a cloth, before taking off the lid; then 
dish up the ice with a spaddle on a napkin upon a dish 
in an irregular pile, and serve. 

Should however, the ice be preferred to be served 
moulded, proceed as follows : — When the cream has been 
worked as described and properly set, fill the ice-mould 
with it. Out a sheet of white paper to fit the inould, 
leaving about an inch all round; put the cover on thisj 
and if not well closed, spread some butter over the open- 
ing, then imbed the mould in the pounded ice and salt, 
place a piece of folded wet flannel on the top, and let it 
thus remain in a cool place till the ice is wanted ; after 
which, wipe the top carefully, turn the ice out of the mould 
in the same manner as a jelly, on to a napkin on a dish, 
and serve. 

Note. — Chocolate, orange, and lemon ice cream are 
prepared in the same way, simply substituting the selected 
flavouring for vanilla. 

872. ICED COFFEE CREAM. 

Put a quarter of a pound of freshly roasted coffee-berries 
into a quart of boiling cream, cover the stewpan, an4 let 
it infuse for an hour. 

Mix eight yolks of eggs in a stewpan with ten ounces of 
pounded sugar, stir the lot with a wooden spoon ; add the 
coffee cream, stir over the fire without boiling until the 
eggs thicken and coat the spoon ; then strain the cream, 
and finish the freezing as directed in No. 871. 

873. ICED STRAWBERRY CREAM. 
Pick two pounds of ripe strawberries and rub them 
through a tammy or silk sieve into a basin ; add to this 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 429 

puree ten ounces of pounded sugar, a quart of cream, and 
the strained juice of a lemon ; mix the lot well together 
with a wooden spoon, strain it through a silk sieve into the 
freezer, properly set in ice (see No. 868) ; add a few drops 
of prepared cochineal to give the cream a pink tinge ; work 
the contents with the spaddle, and when partly set, mix 
in half a pint of whipped double cream, and finish the 
freezing as directed in the foregoing. 

Note. — Raspberry and currant ice creams are prepared 
in the same way. 

874, ICED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Stone a quarter of a pound of raisins and cut them in 
halves; wash and dry two ounces of currants; cut one 
ounce of candied orange-peel or citron, and a similar 
quantity of angelica in small dice ; put these in a sugar- 
boiler with half a gill of Maraschino and simmer until the 
liqueur is reduced, when the sugar-boiler must be removed 
from the fire. Boil one quart of cream, put in it a stick 
of vanilla split lengthwise in four, aid let it steep for an 
hour with the lid on. Break eight yolks of eggs into a 
stewpan, mix in half a pound of pounded sugar, add the 
vanilla cream, and stir the contents over the fire without 
boiling, until the cream thickens and coats the spoon ; then 
strain in the usual way into a basin, giving it an occasional 
stir, to prevent a skin forming on the surface, and when 
cold pour it into the freezer ready set in the ice (see No. 
868), and proceed to freeze in the usual way till the cream 
begins to set; then mix in gradually the chopped fruit, 
stir these in the ice with the spaddle, continue and finish 
the freezing as in vanilla ice cream, and serve either 
moulded or roughly set on a napkin on a dish. 

Note. — Any kind of preserved fruit, such as greengages, 



430 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

plums, pine-apple, apricots, &c., cut in small dice, can be 
substituted for the above fruit. 



875. NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Peel two pounds of fine cbesnuts; blanch them in 
boiling water to remove the second skin, and put them 
in a stewpan over the fire, with a quart of clarified sugar 
syrup and half a stick of vanilla, to simmer gently until 
the chesnuts are well done; then drain and rub them 
t'lrough a hair sieve into a basin. 

Mis in a stewpan eight yolks of eggs with half a pound 
of pounded sugar ; add one quart of cool boiled cream, stir 
the contents over the fire without boiling, until the eggs 
begin to thicken ; then mix in the chesnut pur^e and half 
a gill of Maraschino ; strain the lot through a tammy into 
a basin to get cold. Meanwhile wash and dry two ounces 
of currants ; stone two ounces of raisins and cut them in 
halves, and two ounces of either candied citron or mirabel 
plums cut in small dice ; put these mixed fruit into a sugar- 
boiler over the fire, with half a pint of clarified syrup and 
boil them for ten minutes, then strain in the usual way. 
When the chesnut cream is cold, pour it in the freezer 
ready set in the ice (see No. 868), work it with the spaddle 
until it is partly frozen, then add gradually the chopped 
fruit; mix them well with the ice cream, continue and 
finish the freezing as in No. 874, and serve in the same 
style. 

876. APPLE JELLY. 

Select some good Oolville or Wellington apples; peel, 
core, slice, and put them in the preserving-pan npith enough 
water to cover them well. Boil the apples till they are 
melted, then drain them on a hair sieve over a basin pre- 
viously weighed; now weigh the juice, and f6r every 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 431 

pound of it add ten ounces of lump-sugar. Put the juice 
and sugar in the pan, again properly cleaned, over the fire 
till the sugar is dissolved, then pass the jelly through a 
napkin and boil it in small quantities, say six pounds at a 
timB, till the jelly marks 28° on the syrup-gauge, when it 
■will be done. Pour this into pots, and when cold, lay on 
each top of the jelly a round of paper (cut of the right size) 
dipped in brandy, then another round of paper tied around 
the top of the pots with string, and keep the preserve in a 
dry_CGol place. 

Note. — The apple marmalade which remained on the 
sieve may be used for charlotte or open tarts. 



877. APRICOT JAM. 

Cut eight pounds of apricots into slices ; put them in 
a basin with five pounds of pounded sugar; stir with a 
wooden spoon till the sugar is melted ; then put the whole 
into the preserving-pan to boil for ten minutes, stirring 
the while with the skimmer; take this out of the jam, let 
what is on it cool, and if it feels greasy under the finger 
the jam is done. The same thing can also be ascertained by 
pouring a little into a cold plate ; if it shows little tendency 
to spread, it is done. Pour the jam into pots, and cover 
them with paper when cold, as described in the previous 
number. 

878. QUINCE JELLY. 

Cut the quinces in quarters ; peel, core, slice, and weigh 
them, and allow for every pound of fruit put in the pre- 
serving-pan a quart of water ; then boil till the quinces are 
reduced to a pulp; drain them on a sieve over a basin, 
and to each pound of juice add ten ounces ,of lump-sugar ; 
after which, finish as for apple jelly 



432 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

879. CURRANT JELLY. 

For this jelly it is advisable to have half red and half 
white currants, say four pounds of each, and two pounds 
of raspberries ; put the lot into the preserving-pan with 
a quart of water, and boil it on a sharp fire for about eight 
minutes, stirring the whole with a skimmer, to prevent the 
fruit adhering to the bottom of the pan ; then pour the 
fruit into a hair sieve, over a basin ; rub and press it well 
to squeeze all the liquor out of it ; after which, weigh the 
juice, put it back in the pan, and for every pound ten 
ounces of lump-sugar must be added ; stir the contents 
over the fire until the sugar is well melted ; strain the 
syrup through a tammy; boil it in two parts on a brisk 
fire, and when marking 28° on the syrup-gauge it is done; 
then finish as the apple jelly. 



List of Utensils Kequieed foe a Family of 
Six Peesons. 

I herewith give the list of kitchen utensils required for 
a lamily of from six to twenty-four persons. Of course, 
this list can to a great extent be modified, according to 
the number and circumstances of the family ; but it must 
be borne in mind that there are but few households where 
there is not, now and then, an extra number of guests 
during the year, and that nothing tends to upset the 
temper of a cook more than the want of certain indis- 
jiensable utensils at the time when everybody is busy, 
and which cannot then be obtained. I therefore strongly 
rt'coinmend the furnishing of every necessary implement 
in a kitchen, if good cooking is to be expected : — 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 433 

Two iron gridirons of eight and ten inches respectively, 
for meat and fish. 

One fish-kettle with drainer, two feet long by about nine 
inches wide. , 

One turbot-kettle with drainer, about eighteen inches 
long. 

Two oval braizing-pans with their covers and drainers, 
twelve and fifteen inches long by eight and ten inches 
wide, and seven inches deep, respectively. 

Two untinned copper sugar-boilers, six and ten inches 
in diameter respectively, for stewed fruit, syrup, &c. 

One bain-marie, with a set' of five or six pans all in 
tinned copper. 

One four-gallon tinned copper stock-pot and cover, for 
making ordinary stock and broth. 
, One two-gallon stock-pot and cover, for broth. 

Twelve tinned copper stewpans and covers, varying in 
size from four to twelve inches in diameter. 

Three saut6-pans with covers, eight, ten, and twelve 
inches in diameter. 

Two ordinary tinned iron pans, for blanching vege- 
tables, &c. 

One copper preserving-pan, fourteen inches in diameter. 

One tinned copper slice, for boiled meat, &c. 

One broth-skimmer. 

One copper skimmer for preserves. 

Three tinned iron gravy -spoons. 

Three tinned iron soup-ladles of different sizes. 

One cutlet-bat. 

One chopper. 

One meat-cleaver. 

One meat- saw. 

Four kitchen-knives, assorted. 

One steel. 

2 E 



434 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Two colanders, of six and nine inclies in diameter re- 
spectively, for draining, &c. 

Three baking- sheets, with two -inch return pieces, from 
eight to twelve inches in diameter, for baking meat, &c, 

Three plain baking-sheets, to fit in the oven for baking 
pastry, &c. 

Two tin colanders, four and five inches in diameter, to 
strain sauces, &o. These should hav^ very fine holes and 
may be in many instances substituted for a tammy sieve. 

Two oval tinned copper dishes for gratin, ten and fifteen 
inches respectively. 

One round tinned copper dish for gratin, nine inches 
diameter. 

One salamander to glaze and brown gratin. 

Two tinned iron frying-kettles, ten by seven inches, and 
fourteen by ten, and six inches deep, respectively. These 
are made in one piece without any soldering. 

Two wire frying-baskets. 

Three iron frying-pans, seven, eight, and nine inches 
diameter respectively, the former to be kept specially for 
omelets. 

Two wire sieves, one very fine. 

One silk sieve. 

Two tammy sieves. 

Six diaper cloths for straining broth and jellies. 

One jelly-bag and stand. 

Two pointed strainers. 

Six wooden spoons of diflFerent sizes. 

One hard-wood forcemeat- presser. 

One marble mortar, nine inches (Mameter, with one hard- 
wood pestle. 

One wood block to chop meat on. 

Two chopping-boards, fifteen by ten, and two inches 
thick. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 435 

One set of measures, from half a gill to a quart. 

One set of scales and weights, from a quarter of an 
ounce up to twenty-eight pounds. 

One copper egg-boiler and two whisks, one large and one 
small. 

Six common dishes. 

Three pie-dishes. 

Six earthenware pans, of three different sizes. 

Twelve hasins of different sizes. 

One sausage-machine. 

One filter. 

One pair of large scissors to cut the fins of fish. 

Two tin funnels. 

One clock. 

One meat-safe. 

Qne ice-bucket with a hole, and a peg by the side at the 
bottom. 

One freezer with three divisions. 

One spaddle. 

One large daubing-needle, for larding large braizing 
joints. 

One medium ditto, ditto, ditto. 

One box of twelve larding-needles for venison, sweet- 
bread, fillet of beef, and cushion of veal. 

One tin sugar-dredger for pounded sugar. 

One seasoning-box with half a dozen compartments. 

One glazing-brush. 

Two pastry-brushes. 

One oval copper pie-mould. 

Two moulds for creams, jellies, and ices. 

Two cylinder ditto. 

Two open tart-moulds. 

One plain mould for savarin. 

One ditto, ditto,, for charlotte. 



436 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Twelve small moulds for madeleines. 

Two boxes of paste-cutters, one plain and the other 
fluted. 

On box of long cutters for vegetables. 

One syrup-gauge, and a tall testing-glass to ascertain the 
quantity of sugar in syrup and preserves. This gauge, 
to be correct, must register zero when plunged in cold 
water. 

Six iron skewers of different sizes. 

One ice-prick. 

Three tmssing-needles of different sizes. 

One eight-cup French coffee percolator. 



INDEX 

OF BROTH, SOUPS. MACARONI, RICE, AND RISOTTO. 





No. 




No. 


BBOTH, or Consommd 


2 


Gnochetti with Butter . . 99 


Chicken . 


7 


Soup, Goose Giblet 


. 130 


For Ohiltlren or Convales 




^ Gravy 


S 


cents .- 


137 


Gravy, Chicken 


. 18 


Condensed or Glaze . 


15 


Game 


. 19 


Crayfish . 


29 


Fish . 


20 


Fish .... 


2S 


Vegetables 


21 


Another 


26 






Frog .... 


27 


SOUP, Hare, English Style 63 


Game & la Chasseur . 


10 


Hare, Susinoise 


. . 67 


Another 


11 


Jelly, Simple 


. 150 


How to Make, in a fe« 




Julienne . 


14 


Mitmtes 


13 


Leek . 


. . 38 


Mutton or Scotch 


136 


Lettuce . 


. 42 


Partridge . 


9 


Lettuce, Stufied 


• 43 


, Babbit i, la Proven^ale 


8 


Lombardo . 


. . S8 


Befreshing 


12 






Snail, for Obstinate Cougl 


149 


]»LA.CA°R.ONI Car 


dinale . 86 


Veal .... 


6 


Cheese 


. 88 


Vegetables 


30 


Citizen Style 


. 90 


Another 


31 


Country Style 


• 93 






Dominicaine 


. . 87 


SOUP, Artois 


62 


Gratiu 


. 92 


Asparagus, Clear 


33 


Italian Style 


. . 89 


Beef-tea . 


148 


Milanaise . 


• g* 


Beer and Wine . 


128 


Monglas . 


. . 8s 


Bread and Easpings . 


140 


NapoUtaine 


91 


Brunoise , 


17 


Palermo . 


■ 83 


Cabbage . 


34 


Plain, 


. 81 


Milanaise . 


35 


.Beine 


. 84 


Calf's Tail, Indian . 


133 


REMARKS on, a 


nd Paste of 


Chantilly . 


49 


all Descriptions, 


i,nd how to 


Clermont . 


47 


Cook it, page 49 




Cock a Leekie . 


13s 


Sarde 


. 82 


Condi 


23 






Dawn 


77. 


Soup, Manor-House 


■ 39 


Egg . . . ■ 


. 60 


Minestrone 


. 106 


Poached Styrienne 


131 


Mock-Turtle 


. . 6s 


Another 


132 


Modena 


. 54 


Endive 


. 4S 


Navarin . 


. . 63 



438 



INDEX. 





No. 




No. 


Soup, New Carrot . 


41 


Soup, Rice, and Chesnuts 


. 124 


Onion Lyonnaiae 


78 


Flour . 


146' 


Onion Maigte . 


79 


k, la Franijaise 


117 


Ox-tail . 


65 


au Gratiu . 


120 


Oyster 


127 


Rice and Milk . > 


122 


Pap a la Eeine . 


139 


and Pheasant . 


119 


Simple 


138 


with Plain Broth 


. 102 


Paste with Broth or Milk 


147 


with Potatoes . 


. 104 


Soup, Green Pea 


40 


Remarks on, page 61 




Pearl-Barley . 


126 


and Vegetables . 


. 105 


Polenta Napolitaine 


lOI 


Risotto k la Chasseur 


. Ill 


Pi^montaise 


100 


k la Genoise 


• '25 


Soup, Polish . 


22 


i I'ltalienne 


109 


. Polonaise . 


134 


Another 


. no 


Potato Flour . 


144 


Housewife Style 


121 


Potato, Swiss . 


76 


Milanaise , 


. fo8 


Puree of Crayfish, oi 




Piemontaise 


107 


Bisque of Crayfish 


123 


Poniastowsky . 


115 


Pur^e of Chicken 


64 


Fortugaise . 


"3 


Crecy . 


24 


Spanish Style . 


. 112 


Frog , 


28 


a la Turque 


• "4 


Game . 


64 


Soup k 1 1 Romaine . 


• 56 


Green Peas . 


SO 


k la Rossiul 


• 59 


T.entils 


S2 


Sago . 


. 142 


Potatoes and Chervil 


SS 


Semolina . 


• 145 


h, la Reine . 


61 


Sheep's Head . 


80 


Turnips 


37 


Sorrel, Clear 


• 44 


White Haricot Beans 


53 


Sorrel, Thick . 


• 45 


Quenelles of Chicken 


72 


Spring 


■ IS 


of. Game 


72 


Stock, Family . 


3 


German 


74 


for Gravy and Sauces 


4 


Potatoes 


71 


Ordinary . 


. I 


& la Reine . 


7S 


Soup, Stiirgeon 


. 129 


of Rice 


69 


Tagliatelli k la Chasseur 


. 96 


of Vegetables 


70 


k la Genoise 


. 96a 


Venitienne . 


73 


, Housewife Style 


■ 95 


Ravioli k I'ltalienne 


97 


Soup, Tapioca , 


143 


S, la Romaine . 


98 


Tripe Milanaiae . 


55 


Rice, Boiled for Stewed Fruit 


848 


Turnips 


36 


Soup, Rice, and Cabbage . 


T03 


Velout^ . 


141 


and Cream Chasseur 


118 


Venitienne 


• 57 


and Cream Reale 


116 







INDEX 

OF SAUCES, BUTTER, AND ESSENCES. 





No. 


SAUCE, Allemande 


. IS6 


Apple 


. I8i 


Bechamel . 


• IS4 


Aaother 


• 15s 


Blanquette 


. 178 


Butter 


• 157 


for Aaparagus . 


. 216 


Anchovy . 


. i6r 


Cayenne and Cm 


ry . 168 


Clarified . 


. 160 


Crayfish or Lobst 


er . 169 


Horse-radish 


. 16S 


Maltre d'H6teI 


. 226 


Melted 


; 176 


Montpellier 


. 163 


Noir or Brown 


. 164 


Perigord 


. 167 


Eavigote . 


. 162 


Tmffle 


. 166 


and Ketchup 


• 177 


Bread 


.183 


Caper 


• 193 


Ououinber . 


. 203 


Devilled . 


. 201 


Egg . 


. 182 


Espagnole . 


• iSi 


Another 


• 152 


Essence of Anchovies 


. 174 


Chicken 


• 173 


Fish . 


• 17s 


Game 


. 172 


Mushrooms 


. 171 


Truffles . 


. 170 


Sauce, Fennel . , 


. 194 


FinanciSre . 


. . 187 


Genoise 


. 207 


Gherkin . 


192 


Gooseberry 


. 180 


Hare . 


. 200 



Sauce, Hollandaise or Dutch 
Horse-radish 

Cold . 
Indian 
Italian 

Sharp . 
Maltre d'H6tel 
Mayonnaise 

Another 

Eavigote 
Mint . 
Mushrooms 
Mustard . 
Napolitaine 
Onion 
Oyster 
. Poulette . 
Kavigote . 
Eed Currant Jelly 
Eemarks on Different 

Sauces, Essences, and 

Melted Butter, page 80 
Eeraoulade 
Kobert 
Eomaine . 
Salmis 
Shrimp 
Sicilian 
Supreme . 
Tartare 
Tomato 
Truffle 
Uxelles, D' 

Stuffing 
VeloutA . 
Venison 
Venitienne 
Victoria 
"White 



No. 
184 
191 
224 
iSS 
204 
20s 

IS9 
218 
219 

220 
22s 
197 
223 
208 
202 
186 
179 
189 
2IS 



222 
190 

209 

•99 
213 
211 
188 
221 
217 
198 
I9S 
19s 
IS3 
196 
206 
214 
158 



439 



GENERAL INDEX. 







No. 




No. 


AIiIiEHANDE Sauce 


IS6 


Baked Pike, Citizen Style 


. 48.? 


Almond Paste . - . . 


793 


Barbel Broiled Mattre d'Hotel 500 


Blanc-raanger 




86i 


Eeniarks on, ))age 234 


Anchovy Butter 




i6i^ 


*»<Batter Paste, for Frying 


• 317 


Canop^s . 




788^ 


Buvarois Cream Chocolat 


3 . 864 


Essence' 




174 


Coffee. 


. 862 


Fried . 




336 


Romaine 


. 86s 


on Toast . 




787 


Strawberry . 


. 86s 


Apple Charlotte 




850 


Vanilla 


. 863 


Fritters . 




8l2-<= 


C^Beans, Frencli . 


• 770 


Jelly . 




876 


For Garnish 


. 290 


Pudding . 




829 


Maltre d'H6tel 


■ 772 


Sauce 




i8i 


Purie of . 


. 236 


Stewed . 




841 


Sautes 


• 771 


Tart . 




. 810 


Broad, for Garnish 


. 289 


Apricot Jam . 




877 


Poulette . 


■ 77S 


Stewed 




846 


Puree of 


• 776 


Artichokes Barigoul 


3 


• 7S4 


Haricot, Dried . 


• 773 


Butter Sauce 




7S3 


for Garnish 


• 294 


Fried . 




756 


Housewife Style 


• 774 


Italienne . 




• 755 


Bechamel Sauce 


• IS4 


Poivrade . 




756 


Another . 


• 15s 


Jerusalem, Batter Sauce 


7SI 


Beef Boiled Countryman 


Style 383 


for Garnish 


293 


Croquets of 


• 38s 


Italienne 


752 


Gratin ' 


. 382 


Pickled 


752 


Mince of 


• 384 


Artois Soup 


. 62 


Mironton . 


. 380 


Asparagus with Brown Butter 


760 


Salad of . 


. 386 


Butter Sauce . 


758 


Sharp Sauce 


. 381 


Soup, Clear 


33 


Braized k la Mode 


. 506 


Milauaise . 


759 


Citizen Style 


• 503 


Points, for Garnish . 


287 


Milanaise . 


■ 504 


Oil and Vinegar 


761 


Napolitaine 


■ 505 


Aurore, Eggs Ji 1' . 


252 


Brisket of, Ecarlate 


. 502 


Trout a 1' . 


481 


Fillets of. Green Pea 


J . S" 






Indienne . 


. 508 


BABA Cake . 


881 


Jardiniere . ' 


■ 5°9 


Back of Hare, Italian Sharj 


) 


Jerusalem Ai-tic] 


lokes S" 


Sauce . 


593 


Mashed Potatoes 


• 5" 


Baked Cod Stuffed . 


406 


Mjgnons with C 


ham- 


Ham, Housewife Style 


572 


pignons 


■ 513 


Perch, Angler S 


tyle . 


493 


with Olives 


• 51° 



440 



INDEX. 



4^1 



Beef, Fillets of, Puree of Celery 
Fillet of Steak Oliateau- 

briand 
Kiduey Pi^montaise 
h, la Milanaise 
Napolitain^ 
Forter-House Steak 
Kemaiks on, and Boasting 

in general, page 241 
Bound of. Bailed English 
Style .... 
Bump Steak, Anchovy 
Butter . 
Chasseur . 
Oyster Sauce 
Scollops of, with Chesnut 

Purge .. 
Steak and Kidney Pie 
Oyster Pie . 
Kidney Pudding 
Oyster Pudding . 

Tea 

Beer and Wine Soup 
Beignet Fritters 
Birds, Pudding of Small . 
Biscuits, Champagne 

Italian .... 
Bisque of Crayfish with Eioe . 
Black Game Fie 
Game, Boast 
Pudding, Broiled 
Blanc-manger, Almond . 
Bknquette Sauce . 

Veal 

Boar Cutlets, English Style . 
Espagnole . 
Sarde .... 
. Head, Stuffed . 

• Bemarks on Wild, page 279 

Boiled Beef, Countryman Style 

Brisket of, Ec!£rlate . 

Bound of, English Style . 

- Brill . 

Ciipon with Bice 
Capon with Tarragon 
Cliioken with Bice 
wiih Bock' salt 
with Tarragon 
Cod, Oyster Sauce 
Crabs 

Crawfish . 
Eggs . 

Haddock, Smoked 
Ham with Spinach 
Lobsters . 



No. 
5" 

S12 
35° 
S04 
SOS 
S17 



SOI 

S17 
SIS 
S16 

SM 
638 
689 
702 
701 
148 
128 

81S 
704 
809 
808 

123 
697 

673 
365 
861 
178 
S24 
574 
S7S 
S73 
576 

383 
S02 

SOI 
403 
630 
631 
619 
618 
617 
40s 
477 
477 
240 

458 
570 
477 



Boiled Mackerel , 

Mutton , . . . 

Leg of . . . 

Pike, Italian Sharpe Sauce 
Plaice .... 
Pork, Leg of . . . 
Salmon, Lobster Sauce 
Turbot, HoUandaise Sauce 
Turkey, Celery Sauce 

Oyster Sauce 

Minced, Poached Eggs 

Napolitaine 

Wiiiting 
Bouch^es k la Chasseur . 
of Crabs . 
Financiere . 
Italienne . 
of Lobster . 
Monglas . 
Oysters 
Palermo . 
Eoyale 
Toulouse . 
Valenciennes 
Boudins of Cbicken, Bichelieu . 

Partridge 

Pheasant 
"Bouquet Grami," or a Bunch 
of Aromatic Herbs, page 11 
Brains, Calf's, Fried 

Omelet 
Ox, Montpellier Butter . 

Napolitaine 
Boebuck .... 
Braized Beef, k la Mode . 

Citizen Style 

Milanaise , 

Napolitaine 
Cabbage for Garnish . 
Calf's Liver Genoise . 
Capon Milanaise 
Duck with Cabbage . 

Green Peas 

Olives 
Ham with Stewed Peas . 

Kid 

Mutton Cutlets Jardiniere 

Pompadour 

Soubise . 

Leg of, Bretone . 
Partridges Perigueux 
Pig's Liver 
Turkey Italienne 

JardiniAre . 
Veal, Cushion of 



No. 
419 
389 
SSI 
484 
463 
S66 
390 
398 
646 
647 

387 
388 

441 
322 
322 
322 

319 
322 
322 
322 
320 
321 
322 
322 
623 
671 
666 



330 
264 

36s 
364 
583 
506 

S03 
504 
S03 
29s 
373 
632 

637 
634 
636 

S7I 
S57 
54 f 
S40 
539 
55° 
669 

371 

644 

64s 
525 



442 



INDEX. 



Uraized Veal, Housewife Style 


No. 
518 


Broiled Salmon Cutlets, 


No. 
In- 


Italienne . 


S19 


dienne 


• 394 


JVIac6dolne . 


525 


Tartare Sauce . 


• 393 


with New Carrots 


52s 


Sausages . , . 


. 376 


Onions glazed . 


525 


Sheep's Kidney . 


■ 345 


Spinach . 


525 


Sprats 


■ 473 


Stewed Mushrooms 


525 


Tomatoes . 


. 780 


Stewed Peas . 


52s 


Trout, Hollandaise Sauce . 482 


Stuffed Tomatoes 


525 


Veal Cutlets, Plain . 


• 532 


Toulouse . 


525 


Tomato Sauce . 


■ 532 


White Haricot Beans 


525 


Whiting . 


422 


Bread and Batter Pudding 


822 


Broth or CousommA 


2 


Breadings 


269 


Chicken . 


7 


Bread Raspings Soup 


140 


Condensed, or Glaze . 


. 16 


Raspings . 


268 


for Convalescents 


,n,nd 


Sauce 


183 


Children . 


137 


Panada 


26s 


Crayfish . 


. zg 


Bream, Maltre d'H6tel . 


448 


Fish .... 


• 2S 


Remarks on, page 207 




Another 


. 26 


Breast of Mutton, Broiled 


546 


Frog .... 


27 


Housewife Style 


S47 


Game Chasseur . 


10 


Roebuck, Lyoimaise . 


580 


Game 


II 


Veal, Roast 


536 


How to Make, in a 


few 


with Stuflnng 


S3S 


Minutes 


■ 13 


Brill .... 


403 


Mutton or Scotch 


136 


Brioche Paste . 


792 


Partridge . . . 




Brisket of Beef Ecarlate . 


502 


Rabbit Provenfale . 


8 


Broad Beans for Garnish . 


289 


Refreshing 


12 


Poulette 


77S 


Snail, for Obstinate Ci 


ugh 149 


Pur^'e of 


776 


Veal .... 


6 


Broiled Black Pudding . 


366 


Vegetables 


30 


Boar Cutlets, English Styl 


' 574 


Another 


■ 31 


Chops of Lamb . 


S4S 


Brown Bread and Butter ] 


'ud- 


Mutton 


S4S 


ding 


. 822 


Roebuck 


579 


Brunoise Soup . 


• 17 


Epigrammes of Lamb witl 




Brussels Sprouts, Boiled . 


■ 737 


Asparagus-points 


553 


Boiled with Butte 


r . 738 


Cucumber . 


553 


for Garnish . 


. 291 


French Beans 


553 


Bunch or "Bouquet Gai 


ni," 


Green Peas 


553 


page II 




Italienne . 


554 


Butter, Anchovy 


. 161 


Mac^doine . 


553 


Cayenne and Curry . 


. 168 


Proven gale , 


553 


Clarified . 


. 160 


Haddock, Maltre d'H6tel 


453 


Crayfish or Lobster . 


. 169 


Kidney Veal, Indienne 


349 


Horse-radish . 


i6S 


Mackerel, Maltre d'Hotel 


420 


and Ketchup Sauce . 


177 


Mullet, Grey,Maltred'H&t 


el 439 


Maltre d'H6tel . 


. 226 


Mullet, Red, Maltre d'Hdt 


si 435 


Melted . . 


. 176 


Mutton Cutlets 


543 


Montpellier 


. 163 


Bread-crumbed . 


544 


Noir or Brown . 


164 


Maintenon . 


542 


Pirigord . 


. 167 


Pig's Feet Genoise . 


368 


Ravigote . 


. 162 


St. Menehould . 


367 


Sauce 


• 157 


Pigeons, Crapandine . 


655 


for Asparagus . . 


. 216 


Pork Cutlets, Gherkin Sauc 


e 558 


Truffle 


. 166 



INDEX. 



443 



CABBAGE, Boiled . 


No. 
. 728 


Braized for Garnish . 


• 29.S 


Country Style . 


• 729 


Soup ... 


34 


Hilauaise . 


35 


and Eiue Soup . 


103 


Ked, Stewed . 


296 


Stuffed 


730 


Cabinet Pudding 


818 


Cake, Baba . 


801 


Genoese . 


802 


Ginger 


t;o3 


Miideleines 


Eos 


Parisian 


795 


Plain Seed 


-798 


Plum. 


797 


Pound 


799 


Bice .... 


806 


Savarin 


Soo 


Savoy 


796 


Spanish 


i!04 


Victoria . 


794 


Calf's Brains, Fried Citizen 




Style . 


330 


and Liver . 


■329 


Italieiine . 


328 


Milanaise . 


331 


Head, Devilled Sauce 


3SS 


Italian Sauce 


3SS 


Oil and Vinegar . 


3SS 


Eavigote Sauce . 


355 


Sharp Sauce 


355 


Tomato Sauce . 


3SS 


Liver, Braized, Genoise 


373 


Citizen Style 


374 


Forcemeat . 


274 


Fried Milanaise . 


331 


Palermo 


333 


Veuitienne . 


375 


Feet, Italian Sauce . 


356 


Foot Jelly, Plain . 


227 


Tail Soup, Indienne . 


133 


Canapes, Anchovy . 


788 


Smoked Herring 


789 


Capon Boiled with Rice . 


630 


■with Tarragon . 


631 


Braized Milanaise 


632 


Citizen Style ' . 


629 


Lucullua . . . . 


628 


Napolitaine 


626 


Pitoontaise 


627 


Caper Sauce . . . . 


193 


Caramel, or Burnt Sugar 




page 12 




Carp Bourgignone . 


494 



No. 
496 

495 

498 
497 
743 
742 
283 
41 
744 
438 
730 
731 
732 
232 

735 
734 
733 
236 



Carp, Fried 
Perigueux . 
Bemarks on, page 231 
Sicilienne .... 
Stewed, English Style 
Carrots, Housewife Style 

Italienne .... 
New, for Garnish 

Soup . 
Pur^e of . . . 236, 
Cases, Ked Mullet in 
duliflowers, Bechamel . 
Boiled, JButter Sauce 
Fried . 
for Garnish 
Genoise 
au Gratin . 
Parmesau Cheese 
Puree of . 
Caviare, see Bemarks on Hors- 
d'oeuvres, page 145 
Celery, with Beef-Marrow . 745 
Gratin .... 746 
Gravy . . .747 

for Garnish . . . 282 
Pur^e of . . . 236 

Champagne Biscuits . 809 

.Chautilly Soup . . 49 

Charlotte, Apple . . 850 

Pears . . . 851 

Chate&ubriand Steak . . 512 
Cheek, Ox, Italienne . . 359 
Ox, with Pur^e of Vege- . 

tables . . . 358 

Cheese, Omelet . . . 260 

Another . . . 261 

SoufBi ... 837 

Cherries, Stewed . . 847 

Cherry Water, Iced . . . 876 

Chesnuts for Garnish . . 278 

Pudding .... 819 

Pur6e . , . . , 237 

and Bice Soup . . 124 

Chicken Boiled with Bice . 619 

Back-salt , . . 6i3 

Tarragon . . 617 

Boudins Bichelieu . . 623 

Broth or ConsommS . . 7 

Curry of . . . 5io 

Devilled Sauce . . 616 

Essence of . . . . 173 

Forcemeat for Garnish . 271 

Another . . . ' 272 

Fritot Italienne . . 614 

Milanaise . , . 615 



444 



INDEX. 





No. 




No. 


Chicken, Galantine of 


. 706 


Conger Eels, Roast . 


46S 


Gravy 


. 18 


Oonsomm^ or Broth 


2 


Liver. 


. 301 


of Chicken 


7 


Mayonnaise Sauce 


. . 621 


for Children or Con- 




Fancakies of 


. . 62s 


valescents . 


137 


Pie . 


. 693 


with Poached Eggs Sty- 




Pur^e Soup 


. . 64 


rienne 


«3I 


Quenelles Toulouse 


. 624 


Another , . 


132 


Soup . 


■ 72 


Coquilles i la Chasseur . 


324 


Rissoles of . 


• ' 32s 


Cod 


410 


Roast 


, 620 


Turbot . . . . 


402 


Stewed Africaiue 


. 609 


Court Bouillon for Fish . 


392 


Cliasseur . 


. 606 


Crabs Boiled . , , . 


477 


Housewife Style 


. 605 


Crayfish, Bisque of . 


123 


Marengo 


. 603 


Broth . . . . 


29 


Mushrooms 


. 604 


Butter . . . . 


169 


Mussels 


. 611 


Crawfish, Boiled 


477 


Piemontaise 


. . 613 


Cream Chocolate Bavarois 


864 


Provenjale . 


. 608 


Coffee Bavarois 


862 


with Risotto 


. 602 


Romaine Bavarois . 


866 


Sicilienne . 


. 6t2 


Strawberry Bavarois . 


'86s 


Sandwiches 


. 786 


Vanilla Bavarois 


S63 


Tartare Sauce . 


. 622 


Ice, Chocolate . 


871 


Chocolate Bavarois Crean 


1 . 864 


'Coffee 


872 


Cream Ice - 


. 871 


CuiTants . 


873 


Custard 


. 8S3 


Lemon 


871 


SoufSiS 


■ 833 


Raspberry . 


873 


Civet of Hare . 


• 59° 


Strawberry 


873 


Clarified Butter 


. 160 


Vanilla 


871 


Syrup for Jellies am 


Ices 856 


Crepinettes with Mashed Pota- 




Clarifying Broth 


2 


toes. 


378 


Clermont Soup 


■ 47 


Rice .... 


378 


Cooks-Combs for Garnish 


• 303 


Tomato Sauce . 


378 


Cock a Leekie Soup . 


• 135 


Creey Soup .... 


24 


Cod k la Crgme Gratin 


• 409- 


Gromeskis k la Russe 


327 


Coquilles of 


. 410 


Croquets of Cod 


410 


Croquets . 


. 410 


Lobster 


326 


Genoise 


. 408 


Potatoes . 


720 


Indienne . 


• 407 


Salmon 


39S 


Mayonnaise 


. 410 


Turbot 


402 


Oyster Sauce . 


• 4°S 


Croustade k la Toulouse . 


323 


Remarks on, page I2f 


i 


Crofttons for Soup and Garnish 


24 


Stuffed and Baked . 


. 406 


Cucumber for Garnish 


285 


Salt, Black Butter 


. 411 


Sauce .... 


203 


F.iiK Sauce . 


• 4" 


Currant Iced Cream 


873 


-Maltre d'H6tel 


411 


Jelly 


879 


Melted Butter 


. • 411 


Sauce 


215 


Coffee, Buvarois Crenm 


.. 862 


Curry or Cayenne Butter 


168 


Cieam, Iced 


. 872 


Curry of Chicken 


610 


Custard 


. 852 


Rabbit 


598 


Souffle 


■ 83s 


Prawns for Garnish . 


30.S 


Collared Eels . 


■ 470 


Custards, Chocolate 


8S3 


Cond^ Soup 


• 23 


Coffee 


852 


Conger Eels, Maltre d'H6 


bel . 464 


Plain 


840 


Remarks on, page 213 




Cutlets, Boar, English Style . 


574 





INDEX, 


Cutlets, Espagnole . 


No. 

S7S 


Eels, Conger, Remarks on, page 


Sarde , 


573 


213 


Lamb. 


-537 


Fresh-water, Bemarks on, 


Mutton, Asparagus-points 


537 


page 214 


Bread-crumbs 


544 


Boast .... 


with Cucumber . 


537 


Stewed, English Style 


Frenoli Beans 


537 


Eggs & I'Aurore 


Italienne . 


537 


Boiled . . . 


Jardinifere . 


541 


BrouillSs with Asparagus 


Mac^doine . 


537 


points . . " . 


Maintenon . 


542 


with Brown Butter . 


Maltre d'H6tel . 


543 


Cream and Butter 


Milanaise , 


538 


Dauphine .... 


Pompadour 


540 


Fried 


Puree of Cliesnuts 


537 


Gratin .... 


Soubise 


539 


auPlat . . . . 


Stewed Mushrooms . 


537 


with Tomatoes . 


Peas . 


537 


Poached .... 


Pigeons Maoedoine . 


654 


Bemarks on, page iiz 


Pork, Gherldn Sauce 


558 


with Sauce 


Indienne . 


562 


Sauce .... 


Milanaise . 


559 


Snow with Custard . 


with Purfe of Chesnut. 


561 


Soup 


Stuffing 


560 


Poached, Styrienne . 


Eoebuck Chasseur . 


577 


Another 


Surprise 


578 


Endive Pur^e for Garnish 


Salmon Indienne 


394 


Salad 


Teal Broiled Plain . 


531 


Soup 


Tomato Sauce . 


532 


Epigrammes of Lamb witli 


and Ham . 


528 


Asparagus-points , 


Italienne . 


530 


Cucumber . 


Milanaise . 


529 ■ 


French Beans 


Papillote . 


531 


Green Peas . 


Purfe of Sorrel . 


527 


Italian Style 


Cygnet, Boast . 


559 


Mac^doine . 
Proven^ale . 


DABS, Fried . . . 
Dawn Soup 
Devilled Sauce . 


463 

77 

201 


Espagnole Sauce 

Another 
Essence of Anchovies 

Chicken . 

Fish .... 

GfiinB t . ■ • 


Duck Braized with Cabbage 


637 


Green Peas 


634 


Olives . 


636 


Mushrooms . 


Boast ' . . . . 


638 


Tniffipq 


Stewed, Green Peas . 


633 


,L X U kAJ.\Ji3 W 4 ' 


Turnips 
"WUd, Boast . 
Salmis of . 


63s 
683 
684 


FAMILYStock . . 
Feet, Calf's, with Italian Sauce 
Pig's, k la Genoise . 
* ■ & la Ste. Menehould . 


TITIIiSj-Collared . 


' 470 


Sheep's, with Oil and 


Fillets of Fried, Tnrtarf 




Vinegar 


Sauce . 


469 


Fennel Sauce .... 


Matelotte . 


467 


Fillets of Beef Champignons . 


Maltre d'H&tel . 


464 


Green Peas 


Milanaise . 


468 


Indian Style 



44S 



446 




INDEX. 






No. 




No. 


Fillets of Beet Jardiniere 


S09 


Fresh Meat, Boiled . 


379 


Jerusalem Artichokes 


S" 


Fricassee of Chicken 


607 


Mashed Potatoes 


S'l, 


Fritters, Apple 


812 


Mignons with Cham- 




Beignets . 


81S 


pignons 


513 


Orange 


814 


Olives. 


Sio 


Fritters, Eine-apple 


813 


Purfe of Celery 
Chateaubriand . 


5" 


Frittot of Chicken Italienne 


614 


S12 


Milanaise . 


615- 


Eels, Fried, Tartaie 




Frog Broth 


27 


Sauce 


469 ; 


Pur^e of . 


28 


Haddock, Citizen Style 


457 


Fruit, Stewed Appk» 


841 


Hare Larded, Venison 




Apricots - . 


846 


Sauce . . . 


592 


Cherries 


847 


Mackerel Venitienne , 


422 


French Dried Plums 


849 


Perch Italienne . 


491 


and Rii e 


848 


Romaine . 


492 


Greengages . 


844 


"Venitienne . 


490 


Mirabelle Plums 


84s 


Soles Livournaise 


430 


Pears . 


843 


Tenitienne . 


432 


Pudding, Iced . 


874 


Turbot Indienne 


399 


Frying, Remarlts on; page 142 




Italienne 


■400 






Veal, or Cusliiou uf . 


525 






Whiting, Citizen Style 


445 


GALANTINE of Chicken 


706 


Italienne 


443 


Turkey . . . 


706 


Venitienne 




444 


Veal and Ham 


705 


Financifere Sauce 




187 


Game Broth Chasseur 


10 


Fine Herbs 




195 


Another 


II 


Fish Broth 




25 


Essence 


172 


Another 




26 


Forcemeat of 


273 


Essence of . 




17s 


Gravy 


19 


Forcemeat of Kaw 




275 


Pie in Mould . 


699 


Another 




276 


Purie Soup 


64 


Gravy 




20 


Quenelles of 


72 


Omelet 




257 


Remarks on, page 329 




Remarks on, i)age 18 






Garnishes — 




Flounders 




463 


Asparagus-points 


2S7 


Foot, Calf's, Jelly; Plain 




227 


Broad Beatis 


289 


Forcemeat, Calf's Liver 




274 


Brussels Sprouts 


291 


Chicken . 




271 


Cabbage Braized 


295 


Another 




272 


Red Stewed 


296 


Fish, Raw . 




275 


Carrots, New . 


283 


Another 




276 


Cauliflowers 


292 


Game 




273 


Celery 


28a 


Lobster 




277 


Cliesnuts . 


278 


Veal . 




270 


Chicken Liver 


304 


Another 




270a 


Cocks-combs 


303 


Fowl, Guinea, Housewife 


Style 


657 


Cucumber . 


285 


Roast 




658 


French Beans . 


290 


Pea, Roast 




660 


Haricot Beans, "Wliite 


294 


Freeze Ices, How to . 




868 


Jerusalem Artichokes 


293 


French Beans . 




770 


Lettuces . 


279 


for Garnish 




290 


Mac^doine Bechamel 


281 


MaltreJ'Hotel 




772 


Mushrooms 


301 


Sautgs 




771 


with Wine . 


302 


Fresh Dried Pltjms, Stew 


ed .' 


849 


Mussels 


306 



INDEX. 



447 



No. 



Garnishes— 




Gravy, Vegetable . 


21 


Onions, Button, Glazed 




Greengages, Stewed . 


844 


for Matelotto 


288 


Green Peas Anglaiso 


767 


Glazed 


280 


Fran5aise . 


769 


Peas, Stewed . 


286 


Stewed with Ha^ii 


768 


Prawns with Curry . 


305 


Pea Pur^e .... 


232 


-B^marks on, in general, and 




Pur4e Soup 


50 


on Truffles and Mush- 




Soup .... 


40 


rooms in particular. 




Grouse, Boast .... 


672 


page 128 




Guinea-Fowl, Housewife Style 


6S7 


Sauerkraut 


297 


Boast .... 


658 


French 


298 


Gurnard Genoise 


446 


Truffles in Champagne 


300 


Indienne . 


447 


In Glaze 


299 






in Madeira . 


300 






in Sherry . 


300 


HADDOCK, Fresh, Broiled 




Turnips .... 


284 


Maltre d'H5tel . 


4S3 


Genoese Cake .... 


802 


Egg Sauce .... 


4S2 


Genoise Sauce .... 


207 


Fillets of, Citizen St^ le . 


457 


German Quenelles Soup . 


74 


Fried, Butter Sauce . 


457 


Gherkin Sauce .... 


192 


& ritalienne 


454 


Giblet Omelet .... 


264 


au Gratin .... 


455 


Pie 


694 


Bemarks on, page 209 




Soup 


130 


Smoked .... 


458 


Turkey, Housewife Style . 


651 


Citizen Style . 


459 


Ginger Cake .... 


803 


Halibut, Oyster Snuce 


462 


Glaze, How to Prepare . 


362 


Halibut, Bemarks on, page 212 




How to Glaze Meat . 


362 


Ham, Baked, Housewife Style 


S72 


Gnochetti with Butter . 


99 


Boiled with Spinach . 


570 


Goose AUemande . 


642 


Braized with Stewed Peas 


S7I 


Navarin .... 


641 


Saudwiches 


786 


Boast . . • . 


639 


Hare, Back of, with Sharp 




Stewed with Chesnuts 


640 


Italian Sauce 


593 


Tomatoes . 


643 


Civet of . . . . 


590 


Gooseberry Sauce . 


180 


Fillets of. Larded, Venison 




Giatin Boiled Betf . 


382 


Sauce .... 


592 


Cauliflowers 


734 


Jugged 


589 


Celery .... 


746 


Potted .... 


707 


Cod k la Cv&uw . 


409 


Bemarks on, page 290 




Eggs 


250 


Koast .... 


594 


Haddock .... 


453 


Sauce .... 


200 


Macaroni .... 


92 


Soup, English Style . 


68 


Mushrooms 


781 


k la Susinoise 


67 


Perch 


4B9 


Haricot Beans, Garnish of 




Potatoes .... 


716 


White. . . . 


294 


Bice 


120 


Haricot of Mutton . 


549 


Smelts .... 


471 


Pur^e Soup of . 


53 


Soles 


428 


Dried .... 


773 


Sprats .... 


47S 


Dried, Housewife Style . 


774 


Sturgeon .... 


41S 


Hashed Venison 


588 


Turbot Cream . 


401 


Herrings, Fresh, Mustard Sauce 


460 


Glavy, Chicken 


18 


Fried with Plain Butter . 


461 


Fish ..... 


20 


Bemarks on, page 212 




Game .... 


19 


Shipked . . . . 
HoUandaise Sauce . 


789 


Soup , . . . , 


S 


184 



448 



INDEX. 



Hors d'CEuvres, or Side Dishes, 
Bemai'ks on, page 145 



Horse-radish Butter 


. i6s 


Sauce 


. 191 


Cold . 


. 224 


How to Glaze Meat . 


. 362 


How to Make Sausages 


. 376 


How to Prepare Glaze 


-. 362 


ICED Chocolate Cream 


, . 871 


Coffee Cream . 


. 872 


Currant Cream . 


• 873 


Fruit Pudding . 


• 874 


Lemon Cream . 


. 871 


Water 


. 869 


Nesselrode Pudding 


■ 87s 


Raspberry Cream 


. 873 


Strawberry Cream 


• 873 


Vanilla . 


. 871 


Ices, Cherry Water . 


. 870 


Indian Sauce . 


. 18S 


Italian Sauce . 


. 204 


Sharp Sauce 


. 20s 


JAU, Apricot 


. 877 


Jellies, Lemon . 


• 857 


Madeira . 


. 860 


Orange 


• 859 


Strawberry 


. 858 


Jelly, Preserved Apple 


. 876 


Currant 


. 879 


Quince 


. 878 


Calf's Foot, Plain 


. 227 


Simple . , 


. ISO 


Jerusalem Artichokes, ] 


Sutter 


Sauce . 


• 7SI 


Artichokes, Garnish 


of . 293 


Italian 


. 7S2 


Pickled . 


• 7S2 


Purge of . 


• 239 


John Dory 


• 404 


Jugged Hare . 


• S89 


Venison 


• 584 


Julienne Soup . 


• 14 


KETCHUP and E 


utter 


Sance 


• 177 


Kid, Braized . 


■ SS7 


Kidney, Beef, Milanaise 


• 504 


Napolitaine 


• SOS 


Pi^montaise 


• 3SO 


Sheep's, Chasseur . 


• 347 


Grilled . . 


• 34S 


Stewed with 


Fine 


Herbs . 


■ ?46 



No. 



Kidneys, Veal, Broiled h, I'ln- 




dienne . 


349" 


Stewed k la Bomaine . 


348- 


Kitchen Utensils, List of, page 




432 




LAMB Chops 


54S 


Cutlets .... 


537 


Epigrammes of, with 




Asparagus-points 


SS3 


with-Cucumber . 


SS3 


French Beans 


SS3 


Green Peas . 


SS3 


Italian Style . 


454 


Mao^doine '. . . 


SS3 


k la Proven^ale " . 


SSS 


Quarter of, Roast 


SS^ 


Remarks on Roast, page 269 




Lamprey Bordelaise 


450 


Citizen Style . 


4SI 


Matelotte of . 


449 


Remarks on, page 207 




Larks, Housewife Style . 


681 


Pie 


696 


Potted .... 


707 


Roast .... 


681 


Leek Soup .... 


38 


Lemon Cream Ice . 


871 


JeUy 


857 


Water .... 


869 


Lentils, Housewife Style 


778 


Maltre d'Hdtel . 


779 


Purge of . . . . 


234 


Purge Soup of . 


52 


Lettuce, Garnish of . 


279 


Soup of . 


42 


Stuffed Soup of 


43 


Leveret h, la Chasseur 


591 


List of Utensils required for a 




Family of Six Persons, 




page 432 




Lombardo Soup 


58 


Lobster Boiled .... 


477 


a I'Americaine . 


478 


Forcemeat of . . 


277 


Remarks on, page 221 




Sauce .... 


212 


Loin of Mutton, Roast . 


552 


Pork, Roast 


S6S 


MACARONI Cardinale . 


86 


Cheese with 


88 


Citizen Style . 


90 


Country Style . 


93 


Dominicaine Ma 


87 



INDEX. 



449 





No. 




Blacaroni, Gratin au 


Q2 


Mullets, Itallenne . 


How to Cook, see Remarks 


Maltre d'H6tel . 


on, page 49 




Tomato Sauce 


Italian Style 


89 


Red, k la Genoise 


Milanaise a la . 


94 


in Cases 


Monglas k la . 


85 


Italienne . 


Napolitaine k, la 


91 


Maltre d'Hotel . 


Palermo i la . 


83 


Remarks on Red and Grey, 


Plain. 


81 


page 202 


Keine ^ la , 


84 


Mushrooms Bordelaise . 


Eeraarka on, and Pastt 




Essence of . 


of allDesciiptiona, and 


Gratin .... 


How to Cook it, page 49 


Milanaise .... 


Sarde i la . 


82 


Remarks on, page 381 


Mac^doine Bechamel, Garnish 


f 281 


Sauce .... 


Mackerel Boiled 


419 


Garnish of . 


Broiled Mattre d'Hdtel 


420 


with "Wine, Garnish of 


Fillets of, Venitienne 


422 


Mussels, Garnish of . 


Genoise 


421 


Mustard Sauce .... 


Remarks on, page 195 




Mutton, Boiled 


Stewed 


423 


Breast Broiled . 


Madeira Jelly . 


860 


Housewife Style 


Madeleine Cake 


80s 


Chops .... 


Maltre d'Hotel Butter . 


226 


Cutlets, with Asparagus- 


Sauce . 


IS9 


points . 


Manor-House Soup . 


39 


with Bread-crumbs . 


Marrow, Vegetable, Butter 


Cucumber . 


Sauce . 


748 


French Beans 


Housewife Style . 


749 


Italienne 


Italieune . 


75° 


Jardinifere . 


Mashed Potatoes 


709 


Macedoine . 


Mayonnaise Sauce . . 21 


8, 219 


Maintenon . 


Eavigote Sauce 


220 


Maltre d'H6tel . 


Meat, Fresh, Boiled 


379 


Milanaise . 


Boiled, Remarks on, page 9 


Pompadour 


Melted Butter Sauce 


176 


with Pur^e of Ches- 


Meringues 


867 


nuts 


with Jelly 


867 


Soubise 


Whipped Cream 


867 


with Stewed Mush- 


Mince-Meat 


854 


rooms . 


Pies .... 


8SS 


with Stewed Peas 


Minced Beef . 


384 


Haricot of . 


Mutton 


548 


Leg of, Boiled . 


Veal with Poached Eggs 


387 


Braized Bretonne 


Minestrone 


106 


Roast . 


Mint Sauce 


225 


Loin of Roast . 


Mirabelle Plums, Stewed 


• 845 


Minced . . . . 


Mock Turtle Soup . 


• 6S 


Pie 


Mode of Preparing Sweet 




Remarks on, page 259 


Bread, Brains, Liver, and 


Saddle of, Roast 


Scollops of Veal, page 150 


Shoulder of . . . 


Modena Soup . 


• 54 




Montpellier Butter . 


. 163 


NAPOLITAINE Sauce . 


Mullets, Grey, Genoise Sauce 


■ 439 


Navarin Soup . . . . 


Holiandaise Sauce 


• 439 


New Carrots Soup . 

2 F 



45° 



INDEX. 





No. 




No. 


New Carrots, Garnish of 


. 283 


Panada, B,ice . . . ■ 


266 


Noir or Brown Butter 


. 164 


Semolina .... 


267 






Pancakes 


830 


OBSERVATION with re- 


Chicken .... 


63S 


spect to French Words in 


with Jam . . . . 


831 


Bills of Fare, page 141 


Pap Soup A, la Eeiiie 


139 


jDmelet with Artichokes . 


■ 259 


Simple . . 


138 


Asparagus-points 


. 264 


Parisian Cake .... 


79S 


Brains 


. 264 


Partridges, Bondins of ,. . 


671 


Cheese 


. 260 


Braized St la Perignenx ' . 


669 


Another 


. 261 


Pie . . . . . 


697 


Fish . 


• 2S7 


Quenelles of . . . 


671 


Giblets 


. 264 


Boast .... 


670 


Ham or Bacon 


• 254 


Salniis of . 


667 


Jam . 


. 839 


Stewed with Cabbage 


668 


Kidneys 


. 258^ 


"Paste, Almond. 


793 


Mushrooms 


. 264 


Batter for Frying . 


317 


Onion . 


• 2SS 


for Brioche 


792 


Oysters 


. 262 


Italian with Broth or Milk . 


147 


Parsley 


■ 253 


Short, for Raised Pies 


790 


Peas . 


. 264 


, .^hort, for Tarts . ■ . 


791 


Fiemontaise 


. 263 


for Sponge and Biscuits . 


807 


with Kum . 


. 838 


Ordinary, for Tagliatelli . 


9S 


Sorrel 


. 264 


and Sweet Dishes, Re- 




Spinach 


. 264 


marks on, page 387 




Souffl6e 


. 832 


of all Description, Remarks 




with Tomatoes . 


. 256 


on, and How to Cook 




Truffles 


. 264 


it, page 49 




Onions, Butter, Glazed for 


Patties, Hot .... 


318 


Matelotte 


. 283 


Pea-Fowl, Roast 


660 


Glazed 


. 280 


Pea, Green, Soup . 


40 


Remarks on, page 38a 


Pearl-Barley .... 


125 


Sauce 


, 202 


Pears, Charlotte of . 


851 


Soup k la Lyonnaiae 


. 78 


Stewed .... 


842 


Maigre 


• 79 


Peas, Dry, Purfe of 


233 


Stewed . 


■ 784 


Green, Pur6e of 


232 


, Orange Fritters 


. 814 


& i'Anglaise . i. 


767 


JeUy. .. 


. 8sg 


k la Fran^aise . 


769 


Ox-Brain, Montpellier Butter . 365 


Stewed, for Garnishes 


286 


Napolitaine 


• 364 


Stewed with Ham ; 


768 


Ox-Cheek Italienne .. 


. qi^Q 


Perch, Baked, Angler Style : 


493 


with Pur^e of "Vegetables . js8 


Fillets of, 8l ritalienne ; 


491 


Ox-Palate, Fried . 


■ 3S7 


d la Romaine 


492 


Ox-Tail Soup . 


. 66 


k la Venitienne . 


490 


Ox-Tongue, Fresh, 


with 


Fried 


487 


Gherkin Sau 


oe . 366 


Gardener Style . 


488 


Pickled, Madeira 


Sauce 361 


au Gratin .... 


489 


Sandwiches 


. 786 


Remarks on, page 229 




. Oysters, Bouoh6es of 


. 322 


Perigord Butter 


167 


Fried 


• 335 


Pheasant, Boudins of 


666 


Salpicon of 


• 313 


Housewife Style 


662 


Oyster Sauce . 


. 186 


k la Milanaise -i 


664 


Soup .... 


. 127 


k la Kapolitaine 


663 






Quenelles of . . . 


666 


PANADA, Bread 


. 265 


Roast, Stuffed with Truffles 


665 



INDEX. 



451 





No. 




No. 


Pheasant, Salmi of . 


661 


Pork, Leg of Boiled . 


566 


Pickled Jerusalem Artichokes 


75= 


Eoast . 


565 


Salmon 


39/ 


Loin of Eoast . 


564 


Ox-Tongue, Madeira Sauc 


3 361 


Neck of Eoast . 


563 


,*ie, Beef-Steak and Kidney 


688 


Pie in Mould 


700 


and Oyster . 


689 


Remarks oa, page 271 




Black Game 


697 


Porter-House Steak 


517 


Chicken 


693 


Potatoes k la Beaufort . 


719 


Game, in Mould 


699 


k li Beohiimel . 


715 


Giblet 


694 


Chipped, Fried . 


723 


Lark .... 


696 


with Cream 


711 


Mutton 


691 


Croquets . 


720 


Partridge . 


697 


k la Duchesse . 


721 


Pigeon 


692 


Fried .... 


722 


Pork, in Mould 


700 


Souffldes . 


725 


Eabbit 


69s 


au Gratin . 


716 


Snipe. 


698 


k I'ltalienne 


714 


Veal and Ham . 


690 


k la Lyonnaise . 


713 


Pigeon's Cutlets Macedoine 


654 


4 la Maltre d'Hotel . 


710 


4 la Crapaudine 


6SS 


Mashed, . 


709 


Pie . 


692 


New, \\ith Butter 


727 


Eoast 


656 


Paille 


724 


Stewed, with Grean Peas 


652 


Proven9ale 


718 


Mushrooms. 


653 


Sautees . 


712 


Wild. 


677 


Savoisienue 


7T7 


Pig's Ears with Purge of Lentil 


370 


Souffl(5of . 


726 


^ la Venitienne . 


369 


Potato Flour Soup . 


144 


Liver, Braized . 


371 


Potato Swiss Soup . 


76 


Pounded . 


372 


Potted Hare . 


707 


Feet k la Genoise 


368 


Larks. 


707 


Ste. Menehould . 


367 


Eiil.bit 


707 


Sucking, k I'ltalienne 


569 


Poularde .... 


632 


i la Provenjale . 


568 


I'oulette Sauce . 


179 


Eoast 


567 


Poultry, Remarks on, page 29^ 




Pike, Baked, Citizen Style 


48s 


Pound Cake . 


799 


Boiled, Italian Sharp Saucf 


' 484 


Prawns with Curry, for Garnish 305 


i, la LyoDnaise . 


483 


Preserved .Telly 


876 


Quenelles of 


486 


Pudding (Meat), Beef-steak an( 




Eemarks on, page 225 




Kidney 


702 


-Pine-apple Fritters . 


813 


Beef-steak and Oyster 


701 


Plaice and Flounders 


463 


Bird, Small 


704 


Eemarks on, pnge 213 




Black 


366 


Plain Seedcake 


798 


Mutton 


703 


Plovers, Roast 


677 


(Sweet) Apple . 


829 


Plum Cake 


797 


Bread and Butter 


822 


Stewed . 


843 


Brown Bread and Butter 


816 


Polenta Piemontaiso 


100 


Cabinet 


818 


Napolitaine 


lOI 


Chesnut 


819 


Polish Soup 


22 


College . 


823 


Polonaise Soup 


134 


Iced Fruit . 


874 


Pork, Cutlets of, Gherkin Sauc 


e 558 


Ginger 


820 


k rindienne 


562 


Gooseberry 


828 


k la Milanaise 


559 


Lemon 


821 


with Puree of Chesnut 


s 561 


Nesselrode 


875 


SuifBng 


. 560 


Plum .... 


826 



452 



INDEX. 







No. 


Pudding, Rice . 


. 82S 


Eoly-Poly . 




. 827 


Semolina . 




. 817 


Tapioca 




. 824 


Purge of Carrota 




. 236 


Cauliflower 




. 336 


Celery . ■ 




. 236 


Chesniits 




. 237 


Endive 




. 236 


French Beans 


. 236 


Jerusalem Artlcli 


okes 239 


Lentils 


• 234 


Peas, Dry 




• 233 


Green 




. 232 


Potatoes 




. 231 


Sorrel . 




■ 238 


Soubise 




. 229 


Spinach 




. 236 


Tomatoes 




. 228 


Turnips 




• 235 


Vegetables 




. 230 


Crayfish Soup.or: 


Jisque 


of. 


. 123 


Chicken Soup 


. 64 


Crecy Soup 


. 24 


Frog Soup . 


. 28 


Game Soup . 


. 64 


Green Peas Soup 


• SO 


Lentils Soup. 


. S2 


Potatoes and CJ 


lervil 


Sonp . 


. 48 


k la Keine Soup 


. 61 


Turnips Soup 


• 37 


White Haricot 


Beans 


Soup . 


• S3 


QUAIIiS k la JardiniS 


•e . 679 


Roast. 


. 678 


Quarter of Lamb, Roast 


• ssf- 


Quenelles of Chicken 


a la 


Toulouse 


. 624 


Partridges :. 


. 671 


Pheasants 




. 666 


Pikes . 




. 486 


Rabbit 




. 624 


Chicken Soup 




72 


Game Soap 




• 72 


German Sonp 




• 74 


Potato Soup 




• 71 


4 la Reine Soup 




• 7S 


Rice Soup . 




. 69 


Vegetable Soup 




• 70 


Venitienne 




• 73 


Quince Jelly , 




. 878 



BABBIT k la Chasseur 

Carry of . 

Napolitaine^ la 

Pie. . 

Potted , 

Poulette & U , 

Fiovenfale k la . , 

Remarks on, page 294 

Roast 

Stewed 

Broth h la Proven^ale 
Baspberry Cream Ice 
Ravigote Butter 

Sauce 

Mayonnaise Sauce 
Ravioli k I'ltalienne 

k la Romaine . 
Red Currant Jelly Sauce 
Red Mullets k la G^ehoise 
in Cases 
k I'ltalienne 
a la Maitre d'Hdtel . 
Refreshing Broth . » 
Remarks on Barbel, page 234 

Beef and Roasting in Gene- 
ral, page 241 

Boar, page 279 

Bailed Meat, page 9 

Bream, page 207 

Carp, page 231 

Cod, page 188 

Different Sauces, Essences, 
Melted Butter and Jel- 
lies, page 80 

Eels, Conger, page 213 
Fresh-Watei', page 214 

Eggs, page 112 

Fish, page 181 

Frying, page 142 

Game, page 329 

Garnishes in General, and 
on Truffles and Mush- 
rooms in particular, 
page 128 

Haddock, page, 209 

Halibut, page 212 

Hare, page 290 

Herrings, page 212 

Hors d'CEuvres or Side 
Dishes, page 145 

Lamb, page 259 

Iiamprey, page 207 

Lobsters, Crabs and Craw- 
fish, and How to Boil 
them, page 221 



No. 
596 
S98 
S99 
69s 
7<37 
600 

597 

601 

S9S 
8 

873 
162 
189 
220 
97 
98 
215 
437 
438 
436 
43S 



INDEX. 



453 



No. 
Bemarks on Mackerel, page 

Mullets, Bed and Grey, 
page 202 

Mashrooms, page 381 

Mutton, Lamb,' and Goat, 
page 207 

New Zealand Mutton and 
American Beef, page 8 

Onions, page 382 

Paste and Sweet Dishes, 
page 387 

Perch, page 229 

Pike or Jack, page 225 

Plaice, Flounders, &c., 
page 213 

Pork, page 271 

Poultry, page 296 

Babbit, page 294 

Bice, page 61 

Boasting, page 241 

Salad, page 383 

Salmon, page 182 

Sandwiches, page 384 

Sausages, page 174 

Smelts, page zi8 

Soles, page 197 

Sprats, page 220 

Sturgeon, page 191 

Tripe, page 156 

Trout, page 223 

Turbot, page 186 

Veal, page 248 

Vegetables, page 356 

Venison, page 284 

Whitebait, page 219 

Whiting, page 204 
Bemoulade Sauce , . . 222 
lEice, Boiled, for Stewed Fruit 848 

and Cabbage Soup . 103 

Cake 808 

Cream Soup i, la Chasseur 118 
h, la Beale Soup . .116 

and Chesnut Soup . . 124 

Flour Soup . . . 146 

d. la Frangaise Soup . . 117 

au Gratin Soup . . . 120 

with Milk Soup. . . 122 

Panada .... 266 
Pheasant Soup . . 119 
Plain Broth . . 102 
Potatoe Soup . . 104 
Pudding . . .82s 
Bemarks on, page 61 

Souffle of. . . .837 



'Bice, Vegetable Soup 
Bisotto El la Chasseur 
Genoa Style 
Italian Style , 

Another 
Housewife Style 
Milanaise . 
k la Pi^montaise 
& la Poniastowsky 
h, la Portnguaise 
Spanish Style . 
h la Turque 
Bissoles of Chicken . 
Boast Chicken . 
Cygnet 
Duck. 

Wild . 
Eels, Conger 
Goose 
Grouse 
Guinea-Fowl 
Hare . 

Lamb, Quarter of 
Larks 
Mutton, Leg of. 

Loin of 

Saddle of . 

Shoulder of. 
Partridges . 
Pheasants . 
Pigeons 

Wild . 
Plovers 
Pork, Leg of 

Loin of 
■ Keck of 
Quails 
Rabbit 
Boebuck . 
Snipe. . . 
Sturgeon . 
Sucking Pig 
Teal . 
Turkey Naiwlitaiue 

PiSmontaise 

Stuffed, with Truffles 
Veal . 
Water-Hen 
Wheatears 
Widgeons . 
Woodcocks 
Robert Sauce . 
Boebuck, Brain of . . 
Breast of, Lyonnaise . 
Outlets of, Chasseur. 



454 



index: 



No. 
Boebuck, Cutlets of, Surprise . 57^ 
Chops of, Grilled . . S79 
Fry of , . . .582 
Haricot of, , . . 581 
Haunch of, Lsirded . . 587 
Roast .... 586 
Loin of, or Saddle k I'Ecos- 

saise , . . 585 

Eoly-Poly Pudding . . 827 

Romaine Sfbuce . . . 209 

Soup ^ la . . . .56 

Rossini, Soup k la . . .59 

Rump-Steak k la Chasseur . 515 

Anchovy Butter . 517 

with Oyster Sauce . 516 

' SADDLE of Mutton, Eoast 552 

Sago Soup .... 142 

Salad, Beef . . . .386 

Dressing of all Descri. - 

tion . . . 785 

of tomatoes . , . . 785 

Remarks on, page 383 

Salmi of Partridges . . . 667 

Pheasants .... 661 

Teal 686 

Water-Hen . . . 682 

Widgeon . . . .686 

Wild Duck . . .684 

Salmis Sauce .... 199 

Salmon, Broiled, Tartare Sauce 393 

Croquets .... 39,5 

Cutlets k I'lndienne . . 3^4 

Genoise Sauce . . . 392 

Hollandaise Sauce . . 390 

- Lobster Sauce . . . 390 

Mayonnaise Sauce . . 396 

Melted Butter . . .' 390 

Pickled .... 397 

Remarks on, page 182 

Shrimp Sauce . . . 390 

Smoked, on Toast . . 787 

k la Venitienne . . 391 

Salpicon k la Chasseur . . . 312 

h la Financi^re . . .310 

h, ritalienne . . . 307 

of Lobster or Crab . . 314 

k la Monglas . . . 315 

of Oysters .... 313 

& la Palerme . , . 308 

k la Royale . . . 309 

k la Toulouse . . . 311 

k la Valenoienne . . 316 

Salt Cod with Brown Butter . 411 

with Egg Sauce . .411 



Salt Cod Maltre d'H6tel 

Melted Butter 
Sandwiches, Beef . 

Chicken . 

Ham . . 

Ox-Tongue 

Remarks on, page 384 
Sardines on Toast . 
Sauce^ AUemande . 

Apple 

Bichamel , 
Another 

Blanquette 

Butter 

Butter and Ketchup 

Butter; for Asparagus 

Bread 

Caper 

Cucumber . 

Devilled . 

Egg . . 

Bspagnole . 
Another 

Fennel 

Financiire , 

Genoise 

Gherkin . 

Gooseberry 

Hare . ; 

Hollandaise 

Horse-Badish 
Cold . 

Indian 

Italian - . 
Sharp . 

Maltre d'Hfitel 

Mayonnaise 
Another 
Ravigote 

Mint . 

Mushroom 

Mustard . 

Nap'olitaine 

Onion 

Oyster 

Poulette . . 

Ravigote . 

Red Currant Jelly 

Remoulade 

Robert 
Romaine 

Salmi 
Shrimp 
Sicilian 
Supreme 



INDEX. 



455 



No. 



Sauce, Tartare .... 


221 


Tomato .... 


217 


Truffle .... 


198 


Uxellee, D' . . . 


19s 


Velout^ .... 


IS3 


Venison .... 


196 


Venitienne 


206 


Victoria .... 


214 


White 


158 


Sauerkraut .... 


297 


French .... 


298 


Sausages, Citizen Style . 


377 


How to Make . 


376 


Remarks on, page 174 




Savarin Cake .... 


800 


Savoy Cake .... 


796 


Scollops of Beef with Chesnut 




Pur^e. 


S14 


Veal, Fried 


523 


h, la Genoise 


334 


with Mushrooms 


526 


Sea Kale, Butter Sauce . 


757 


Semolina Panada 


267 


Padding .... 


817 


Soup 


14s 


Sheep's Feet with Oil and 




Vinegar 


3S4 


Head Broth 


80 


Kidneys k la Chasseur 


347 


GriUed 


34S 


Stewed with Fine 




Herbs . 


345 


Tongue, Gherkin Sauce . 


320 


k la Napolitaine 


3S3 


with Spinach 


3SI 


Short Paste for Eaised Pies . 


790 


Sponge and Biscuits . 


S07 


Tagliatelli . 


9S 


Tarts .... 


791 


Shoulder of Mutton, Boast 


SS2 


Shrimp Sauce .... 


188 


Sicilian Sauce .... 


211 


Skate with Brown Butter 


416 


h, la Genoise 


417 


i. la HoUandaise 


41B 


Small Birds, Pudding of . 


704 


Smelts, Fried .... 


471 


au Gratiu .... 


471 


Remarks on, page 218 




Smoked Haddock . 


458 


Citizen Style 


-4S9 


Herring .... 


789 


Salmon, on Toast 


787 


Snail Broth, for Obstinate Cough 149 


Snipe, Pie of . 


69S 





No. 


Snipe, Roast 


674 


Salmi of . . . 


67s 


Soles, Boiled . 


424 


a la Colbert 


426 


au Gratin . 


428 


Fried 


42s 


Fine Herbs 


427 


Fillets of, k la Livournaise 


430 


k la Venitienne . 


432 


k la Normaude . 


438 


with Parsley 


431 


k la Proveusale . 


420 


Remarks on, page 197 




with White Wine . 


434 


Sorrel, Purie of 


238 


Soup, Clear 


44 


Thick. 


45 


Soubise PurSe 


229 


Souffl^ Cheese 


836 


Chocolate . . . . 


833 


Coffee 


83s 


Omelet . . . . 


832 


Rice .... 


837 


Vanilla . 


834 


Soup Artoia 


62 


Asparagus, Clear 


33 


Beef-Tea . 


148 


Beer and Wine . 


128 


Bread and Raspings . 


140 


Brunoise . 


17 


Cabbage . 


34 


Milanaise . 


55 


and Rice . 


103 


Calf's Tail, Indian . 


133 


Chantilly . 


49 


Clermont . 


47 


Cock a Leekie . 


13s 


, Cond§ 


23 


Dawn 


77 


Egg .... 


60 


Poached Styrienne 13 


I, 132 


Endive 


46 


Gnochetti with Butter 


99 


Goose Giblet 


130 


Gravy 


5 


Hare, English Style . 


68 


Hare, Susinoise. 


67 


Jelly, Simple . 


150 


Julienne . 


14 


Leek .... 


38 


Lettuce 


• 42 


Stuffed 


• 43 


Lombardo . 


■ 58 


Macaroni, see Macaroni. 




Manor-House . 


. 39 



4S6 



Soup, Minestrone 
Mock-Turtle 
Modena 
Navarin 
New Carrots 
Onion Lyonnaise 

Maigre 
Ox-Tail . 
Oyster 
Pap ^ la Beine 

Simple 
Faste . 
Pea, Green 
Pearl Barley 
Polish 
Polonaise , 
Potato Flour 

S^iss . 
Pur^e of Crayfish 

Bisque of 
Pnr^e of Chicken ' 

Crecy . 

Frog . 

Game . 

Green Peas . 

Lentils 

Patatoes and Chervil 

h la Beine . 

Turnips 

White Beans 
Quenelles of Chicken 

of Game 

German 

of Potatoes . 

h, la Beine . 

of Bice 

of Vegetables 

d, la Venitienne • 
Bice, tee Bice and Bisotto 
h la Bomaine 
h la Bossini 



INDEX. 



Semolina . 

Sheep's Head 

Sorrel, Clear 
Thick . 
- Spring 

Stock, Family 

Sturgeon . 

Tapioca 

Tripe Milanaise 

Turnips 

Velouti . 

Venitienne 
Spanish Cake , 



No. 

io6 
65 
S4 
63 
41 
78 

79 

66 
127 
139 
138 
147 

40 
126 

22 

134 
144 

76 

123 
64 
28 
24 
64 
50 

S2 
48 
61 

37 
S3 
72 
72 
74 
71 
7S 
69 

70 
73 

56 

59 

142 

14s 
80 

44 

4S 

IS 

3 

129 

143 

ss 
36 

141 

S7 
804 



Spinach with Batter 

Cream 
Housewife Style 
k, ritalienne 
i, la Proven9ale 
Furie of . 
Sprats, Broiled 
Citizen Style 
Fried . 
au Gratin , 
Bemarks on, page 220 
Spring Soup 

Stewed Carp, English Style 
Chickens k, la Africaine 

k la Chasseur 

Housewife Style 

i, la Marengo 

with Mushrooms 
Mussels 

k la Pi^montaise 

k la Frovenf ale . 

with Bisotto 

k la Sicilienne . 
Duck with Green Peas 
Duck with Turnips , 
Eels, English Style . 
Fruit, Apples . 

Apricots . . 

Cherries 

French, Dried Plums 

with Bice , 

Mirabel Plums . 

Pears . 

Plums . 
Goose with Chesnuts 

Tamatoes . 
Mackerel , 

Mutton Cutlets with Mush- 
rooms , 
Mutton Cutlets with Peas 
Onions 

Partridges with Cabbage 
Peas with Ham .-^ 
Pigeons with Green Peas 

Mushrooms . 
Babbit 
Sheep's Kidneys with Fine 

Herbs . 
Veal, Country Style . 

Another 
Kidneys k la Bomaine 

with Bice , 
Stock, Family . 

for Gravy and Sauces 
Ordinary . 



INDEX. 



45 7 



No. 

Strawberry Cream, Bavarois . 865 

Crenmlce .... 873 

Jelly 858 

Sturgeon & I'Auglaise . , 413 

au Gratin , , , 415 
Bemarks on, page 191 

Soast, Larded . . . 414 

& la YeDitienne . . . 412 

Soup 129 

Sucking Kg, Itallenne . . 569 

h la Proven9ale . . 568 

Boast .... 567 

Supreme Sfiuce . . , 188 

Sweetbread, Mode of Preparing, 
page 150 

Syrup, Clarified, for Jellies and 

Ices 856 

TAGLIATELLI ^la Chas- 
seur ... 96 
it la 6enoi>: . . 9601 
Housewife Style . . 95 
Paste, Ordinary . 95 

Tapioca Pudding , , . 824 
Soup . . . .143 

Tartare Sauce .... 221 

Tarts, Apple . . . .810 

of Fruit in General . . 8ii 

Teal, Koast . . . .683 
Salmi of . . .686 

Tench . . . . . 499 

Tomatoes, Grilled . . . 7S0 

Purfee .... 228 

Salad 785 

Sauce .... 217 

Stuffed, Proven9ale . . 779 

Tongue, Fresh Ox, Gherkin 

Sauce . . . 366 

Pickled Ox, Madeira Sauce 361 

Sandwiches . . 786 

Sheep's, Gherkin Sauce . 352 

£ la Napolitaine . . 353 

with Spinach . . 351 

Tripe, Citizen Style . 340 

Fried 344 

k ritalienne . . 339 

i la Lyonnaise . . . 34^ 

i, la Milanaise . . . 337 

and Onion . . 34^ 

Another . . 343 
Eemarks on, page 156 

& la Bomaine . . . 338 

Soup il la Milanaise . . 55 

Trout & I'Aurore . . . 481 

Broiled, Hollandaise Sauce 482 



No. 

Trout k ritalienne . . . 479 

h, la Meuniire . . . 480 

Bemarks on, page 223 

Truffles, Butter . . .166 

in Champagne . . . 300 

Kssence of , , . . 170 

Glaze .... 299 

Madeira . . . 300 

Sherry . . . 300 

Sauce .... 198 

Turbot, Coquilles of, . . 402 

an Gratin .... 401 

Croquets .... 402 

Fillets of, i I'Indienne . 399 

k I'ltalienne . . 400 

Hollandaise Sauce . . 398 

Mayonnaise of, • . . 402 

Bemarks on, page 186 

Turkey, Boiled, with Celery 

Sauce . . . 646 

with Oyster Sauce . 647 

Braized & I'ltalienne . . 644 

la Jardiniere . . 645 

Galantine of . . . 706 

Giblets of. Housewife Style 651 

Boast k la Kopolitaine . 649 

Pi^montaise . . 648 

Stuffed, with Truffles 650 

Turnips with Gravy . . . 739 

as a Garnish . . . 2S4 

Mashed . . . .741 

Purde .... 23s 

Soup .... 37 

k la Savoisienne . . 740 

Clear Soup ... 36 



UXELLES, D' 

Sauce 



• 195 

• 19s 

. 871 



VANILLA Cream Ice 
Souffle ... 

Veal, Blanquette of, . . 524 
Boiled, Minced^ with Poached 

Eggs . . .387 

k la Napolitaine . . 388 

Braized Italienne . . 519 

Housewife Style . 518 

Breast of. Citizen Style . 536 

with Stuffing, Boast . S3S 

Broth ... . . 6 

Cushion of. Braized k la 

Jardiniere . . S^S 
Braized, with Glazed 

Onion . . 525 

it la Mac^doine . 522 



4S8 



INDEX. 



No. 



No. 



Veal, Cushion of, Braized, with 




Vegetable Marrow 4 I'ltali- 




New Carrots 


525 


enne 


75° 


Spinach 


525 


Pur^e of . . . 


230 


Stewed Mash- 




Remarks on, page 356 




• rooms 


525 


Velont^ Sauce .... 


IS3 


, ' Peas" . 


525 


Soup . . . . 


141 


StuSed Tomatoes 


525 


Venison, Hashed . 


S88 


.s aiaToulonao 


525 


Jugged .... 


S84 
rgo* 


with white Harico 




Sance . . . . 


■ Beans . 


S2S 


Remarks on, page 284 




Outlets, Broiled 


S3I 


Venetian Sauce 


206" 


with Tomato Sauce . 


532 


Soup 


57 


Ham . 


528 


Victoria Cake .... 


794 


A I'ltalienne 


53° 


Sauce . . . . 


214 


k, la Milanaise . 


529 






en Ptipillote ' 


531 






with Pur^e of Sorrel . 


527 


WATKB-HEN, Eoast 


683 


and Ham, Galantine of, 


705 


Salmi of .' . 


687 


and Ham Pie ... 


690 


Wheatears, Roast . 


682 


Forcemeat of . . . 


270 


"Whitebait . . 


742 


Another 


270a 


Remarks on, page 219 




Kidneys, Broiled k lln- 




"WTiite Sauce . . . 


158 


, dienne . 


349 


"WTiiting, Boiled 


441 


Stewed t, la Bomaine . 


348 


Broiled .... 


442 


Remarks on, page 248 




Fillets of. Citizen Style . 


44S 


Boast .... 


S34 


i, I'ltalienne 


443 


Stewed, Country Style 


520 


si la Venitienne . 


444 


Another 


S2I* 


Fried 


440 


with Bice . 


522 


;■ Remarks on, page 204 




Vegetable Broth 


30 


yidgeon, Housewife Style 


585 


Another . . . . 


31 


Roast . . . . 


683 


Marrow, Butter Sauce 


748 


Salmiof . . . . 


686 


Housewife Style . 


749 


"Woodcock, Boast . 


676 



PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO. 
EDINBURGH AND LONDON. 



^ 



■"xry^C.^ 






Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 






PRACTICAL 



HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



CONTAINING 



1000 ORIGINAL AND OTHER RECIPES. 



BY 



E. BURET. 

EX-MANAGER OF THE ST. JAMES' HALL, ETC. ETC. 




LONDON AND NEW YORK: 

FREDERICK WARNE AND CO, 

1891. 



V r» 



I «- 



• ^ »^. 



PUBLISHER'S PREFACE. 



-M- 



This is a practical book, bj a practical man, written 
for practical people. It covers the whole range of 
culinary effort, and gives a wide choice of meals for 
every day in the year. There is much that is new in 
it, more especially with regard to the Italian and other 
provincial dishes. A strong feature is made of soups 
and boiled meats and other inexpensive preparations, 
there being not only a good selection, but the distinc- 
tions being well marked. The directions have been 
carefully revised. They are precise and clear, and 
there is not a recipe in the book which has not been 
practically tried and found to be satisfactory. It also 
contains a number of instructive and valuable re- 
marks on the different products of this country used 
in cookery. 



3%i^V 



CONTENTS. 



■♦4- 



PAOR 
INTRODUCTION— REMARKS ON MEAT IN OBNERAL, AND BKETGUES 

OF BIDES OR HALVES OF BSEF| VBAL, AND MUTTON, SHOW- 
ING JOINTS THEREFROM I 

REMARKS ON NEW ZEALAND MUTTON AND AMERICAN BEEF . 8 

RE&IARKS ON BOILED MEAT 9 

WHAT SHOULD BE UYNDT ON THE KITCHEN TABLE AND LARDER. II 

BOUQUET GARNI OR BUNCH OF DRT HERBS II 

CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR 12 



CHAPTERS 

L SOUPS—GRAVIES— MACARONI AND PASTE OF ALL DE-SCRIP- 

TI0N8— RICK — RISOTTO — AND ORDINARY JELLY . . II 

n. EiOUPS FOR CONVALESOENTB AND CHILDREN ... 76 

m. SAUCES— MELTED BUTTER — ESSENCES — JELUE8 . . . 80 

IT. PUREES OF VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING — EGGS — OMELETS 

— PANADAS — BRKADINGS I08 

V. FORCEMEAT— GARNISHING IN GENERAL— BALPICON . 124 

VL FRYING — BATTER PASTE — HOT AND COLD HORS-D'cEUVRES . 1 42 

VIL TRIPE — LIGHT ENTRIES— SAUSAGES 1 59 

Vm. BOILED MEAT I76 

FISH AND CRUSTACEANS 181 

IX. BKEF 235 

JL VEAL ........... 248 



via CONTENTS. 

CHAP. PAOB 

XI. inJTTON— LAMB AND KID 259 

XII. FORK — HAM — SUCKING PIG — WILD BOAB . . . 271 
XIII. VENISON — HABE— BABBIT 2S4 

XIV. POULTRY 289 

XV. GAME 329 

XVL HOT AND COLD MEAT PIES — PUDDINGS— GALANTINES AND 

POTTED GAME . . 342 

XVII. VEGETABLES— SALADS— SANDWICHES 356 

XVin. PASTE— PASTBT— SWEET DISHES— ICES .... 387 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



-H- 



INTRODUCTION AND PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 

Since cookery was discovered to be a science and classed, 
as well as cultivated, as an art by epicures of renown, 
many more or less valuable books have been written on 
the subject by professional cooks, as well as by amateurs of 
all descriptions in the mysteries of gastronomy. The aim 
of these has, no doubt, been to educate the palate and en- 
lighten the readers as to the different modes of preparing 
good and tasty food at nominal cost ; but the majority of 
the books are either copies of others, or have been written 
with a very limited culinary knowledge ; with few excep- 
tions, they give neither quantity, measure, nor weight, nor 
the time needed for following out their numerous and per- 
plexing recipes, and thus afford but very little help to the 
uninitiated. 

This frequent want of explicitness in these works, com- 
bined with the growing taste for novelties, has induced me 
to offer herein the knowledge I have gathered during an 
experience of many years ; and in doing so I shall be con- 
tent if I succeed in simplifying the directions without pro* 
ducing confusion, and at the same time give in all cases 
the correct weight and measure, as well as the exact 
time for cooking each recipe, besides suggesting economical 
reform in the kitohen and encouraging the use of good and 
nutritious food. Although steps have of late been taken 
towards education in culinary knowledge by the so-called 

A 



2 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

schools of cookery, there is still plenty of room for improve- 
ment Cooking ought to be studied as a science and 
practised as an art in every young ladies' school, as well 
as in every home, and for the benefit of the nation at 
large, I sincerely hope that the day will come when every 
girl, rich and poor, will have the proper means, and I 
may say further, be compelled to learn its rudiments, so 
that when she is her own mistress, she may, in due course, 
not only be able to give her order in a practical manner, 
and compose her mentie according to her means and fancies, 
but be able also, if necessary, to cook for herself j and by so 
doing be less dependent on her cook. 

Abroad, and especially in France, the culinary art is far 
better cultivated than it is here. There men as well as 
women of every station seem to take a pride in the know- 
ledge of cookery, without in any way interfering with the 
rights or self-esteem of their cooks ; on the contrary, the 
latter are far more attached to their employers, and also 
more attentive to their duties, well knowing that their 
services could be dispensed with at any moment, without 
causing the slightest inconvenience to their mistresses, 
should they attempt to show such independence and 
temper as they so often do in this country. 

Having thus far expressed my views on the present 
knowledge of cookery, I will at once proceed. As our 
senses were made for our enjoyment, so were the good 
things in the world. The different pix>ducts imported into 
England afford proofs of bounty which it would be unrea- 
sonable and ungrateful to reject; in fact, it would be a 
sort of impiety were we not to avail ourselves of them and 
turn them to their very best account In endeavouring to 
bnng before the public their proper use, I take the oppor- 
tunity of advocating a branch of the culinary art which is 
not so well known as it ought to be, and is consequently 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

very little cultivated — I mean the pure Italian cookery. 
Whoever has travelled through that land of fine art and 
poetry must have indulged, more or less, in its national 
dishes, and brought back with him sweet remembrances 
of its palatable, appetising, and nourishing food. My ex- 
perience as a restaurant manager and caterer of long stand- 
ing enables me to write with a certain amount of authority 
on this subject, as whenever and wherever I have intro- 
duced some of those specialities, I have always found that 
they were appreciated and relished. Rice and paste of all 
descriptions, such as macaroni, spaghetti, tagliatelli, vermi- 
celli, ravioli, &c., &c, play a great part in the ordinary 
Italian cookery ; and as they are all cheap items, nutritious, 
wholesome, digestive, and can be prepared in so many dif- 
ferent ways, it is my intention of expatiating on them, 
trusting that my efforts will be appreciated by both the 
middle and working classes, for whose instruction and 
benefit this part of the work is more particularly intended. 
There is an old saying which may be appropriately quoted 
here ; that " if you have a favour to ask of a man, ask it 
of him after he has had a good dinner.'' There is a great 
deal of truth in this, and I should very much like to im- 
press its moral on my fair readers, who, if my instructions 
are properly carried out, will soon discover its truth, and 
reap the benefit of their industry and culinary knowledge. 
It is a well-known fact that the Englishman is fond of his 
home; add to it the comfort and enjoyment of a good 
dinner, and contentment, harmony, and happiness will 
reign supreme in the family; herein lies the great bliss 
in your married life, as well as your recompensa 

But in order that culinary duties should be properly 
performed and easily discharged, and at the same time 
a source of comfort and pleasure to the performers, it is of 
the greatest importance that the kitchen arrangements. 



4 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ventilation and light— combined with the necessary uten- 
sils and appliances required for tx>oking successfully (a 
list of which I give at the end of this work) — should be 
studied in a more practical manner and provided for with 
greater liberality than is actually found, even, T am sorry 
to say, in some of the wealthiest houses of this country. 

Families with limited means are generally very fond of 
accumulating and shelving innumerable knick-knacks, in 
their different rooms that are quite worthless for domestic 
comfort, although very pleasing to the eye as ornaments ; 
but they will disregard and neglect the furnishing of proper 
stewpans and other appliances, really necessary for provid- 
ing satisfactorily and successfully for their daily wants. 

Cleanliness is one of the most essential conditions in all 
cooking operations. Vessels and utensils of every descrip- 
tion used for such purpose should be kept — the inside even 
more than the outside — in a constantly bright and polished 
state, without which no cooking should ever be attempted. 
Many failures in sauces and dinners spoiled have been 
attributed to the want of cleanliness. Copper pans should 
often be examined, and as soon as they are found to redden 
inside, should at once be sent to be retinned, as nothing 
is more unwholesome to the food or prejudicial to the 
colouring of sauces, <^, than a badly tinned pan. 

Cleanliness must also be applied to the different dressers, 
tables, shelves, and sinks, which should be scrubbed daily 
with soap and boiling water, and then properly rinsed and 
wiped. The floors of the kitchens, as well as the larder 
and yard, should also receive their proper attention and be 
scoured as often as wanted. These recommendations are 
not to be considered as a luxury but a necessity, and ought 
to be the fundamental rules in every household. 

Special attention must also be paid to the hands and 
nails, and no food touched with them unless perfectly clean. 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

The next thing in order, and which i^ of no less impoit- 
ance, is, that you should possess a good drawing kitchener; 
keep it clean and free from soot; make yourself well ac- 
quainted witii the object of ita different keys and dampers, 
BO tliat you be able to regulate the heat in the ovens aa 
wanted ; otherwise all your efforts at cooking and baking 
will partially be lost. Gas-stoves are simple, clean, and 
very handy in their way, as far as boiling and roasting is 
concerned, but will not answer for middle-ckss families, 
and therefore I cannot recommend them, French kitch- 
enetH or closed tanges are the beat constructed in the 
world for usefulness and economy of fuel. 



Reua&ks OS Meat ih Gesebal. 

The knowledge of the quality of meat, aa well as the 
different pailis and cuts of the animals, Is absolutely 
necessary to all who have to cater for the public or buy 
for their ovm private use. 

I therefore give sketdies of sides or halves of beef, veal, 
and mutton, showing from which part of the animal each 



BEEF. 




PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



By the e.hove sketches it will be Eeen that the side of 
beef is divided into fifteen parts, besides the head and tail, 
viz: — 

I and 2. Leg and sliin, for builing. 

3 and 3a. Tlie top side and silver side, two distinct cuts ; 
the former is tised for beef-steaks, and the ktler cnn be 
braised, but is generally salted. 

4. Shows aitoh-bone, a roasting joint. 

5. Bump, for rump steak. 

6. Thick flank for beef-steak and braising. 

7 and 70. Sirloin with fillet or under-cut, the best joint for 
roasting, and the kidney for stewing. 

8, Fore-ribs, a joint of sir ribs for roasting. 

9 and 90. Uiddle ribs, a joint of six ribs, for roasting and 
stewing, and shoulder for stewing and braising. 

10. Neck, for stewing and boiling. 

1 1. Thin flank, for salting and braising. 

12. Brisket, for salting. 

In selecting a piece of beef, see that it is of a bright 
red colour and not coarse in the grain ; the fat must be 
of a light yellow appearance, nicely intermixed with the 
lean and soft to the touch. Us flavour and quality will 
depend, as a matter of course, entirety on the breed and 
food of the animal ; but in either case it is advisable that 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

a joint should be hung some days in a cool dranghty place 
before cooking. 

Beef of a brown and dull colour, with flaccid fat, but firm 
and hard to the touch, must be avoided, as these marks are 
true indications of inferior quality meat. 



VEAL. 




Yeal is divided into seven parts, besides the head, tail, 
and feet — 

1. Leg of veal, from which cushions and scallops are 
cut, otherwise called fillets, and is the best part of the 
veal for braising and stewing. 

2. Loin and kidney, for roasting. 

3. Cutlets, for broiling. 

4. Breast, for stewing and roasting. 

5. Neck, for stewing and boiling. 

6. Shoulder, for stewing and boiling. 

7. Knuckle, for boiling. 

Veal must always be chosen of a light colour; the fat 
must be perfectly white and transparent Yeal of a 
reddish tint and lean should be rejected, as it is of an 
inferior quality. For the same reason avoid coarse flesh 
and big joints of veal, as these are sure signs that the 
animal was an old one when killed (see the chapter on 
veal). 



8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



MUTTON. 




Mutton is divided in six parts, besides the head and 
kidneys : — 

1. Leg, for roasting and boiling. 

2. Loin, for chops. 

3. Best neck or cutlets, for broiling and stewing. 

4. Breast, for stewing. 

5. Neck end or scrag, for boiling and stewing. 

6. Shoulder, for roasting. 

The quality of mutton is known by the same signs as 
good beef : its flesh must be of a bright red colour, with 
white transparent fat; in a like manner, prime mutton 
depends, for quality and flavour, on the breed and feediog ; 
sheep with black legs and heads yield the best mutton. 

Mutton of a dull red colour, with yeUow and opaque fat, 
is of an inferior quality. 



Remarks on New Zeajj^d Mutton and Auerican 

Beef. 

There is a general prejudice among the well to-do classe.*? 
against buying fresh meat imported from America and 
Austiulia. This, however, ought not to be, as both are 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

equal in taste and quality to the ordinary English -bred 
meat; and if the consumers would only waive their fan- 
cies, they would soon find that it is a very difficult task 
to tell one from the other, even amongst would-be con- 
noisseurs. 

How many hundred legs of New Zealand mutton are 
sold daily in Great Britain as English, bred and fed, is 
beyond my power to tell. Suffice it to say, that out of the 
several thousand carcasses imported weekly into this country 
from Australia, not the half of that number is sold as such. 
What becomes of the others ? That is the question ; and if 
you cannot guess, I am afraid your butcher will not be able 
to tell you, for the very simple reason that he does not 
keep it himself — at least so he will say. The same thing 
applies to Australian and American beef. 

Only first quality New Zealand mutton and American 
beef should, however, be bought; and in either case the 
meat must be hung for a few days in a cool and dmughty 
place, previous to cooking. 



Behakes on Boiled Meat. 

There is also a general idea prevailing in England that 
boiled meat is not so nutritious as roast meat. This is a 
great mistake, as it is the only kind of cooking by which 
you can obtain the full value of your materials, and is 
not only the most wholesome and easily digested, but the 
cheapest and most profitable form by which food can be 
prepared for the working classes, as it has been clearly 
demonstrated beyond a doubt that the roast joint will lose 
in weight twice the amount of the boiled one ; and as the 
broth derived from the latter must also be taken into con- 
sideratioD, it will at once convince you, I am sure, that 



lo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

this is the most economical kind of cooking. It forms, I 
may say, part of the daily bill of fare of almost all classes 
in other countries. 

Mr. Buckmaster, who has studied this point in a most 
practical manner, and ought to be considered an authority 
on the subject, says in his valuable little book on Cookery, 
that ''persons who cook their food in water do it more 
economicaUy, and derive from it a greater amount of 
nourishment, than those who employ the direct action of 
heat, as in baking and roasting." I thoroughly agree 
with him.* 

* To ooctk satisfactorily by boiling, however, a slow and steady fire is 
required, as the cooking oannot be expected to hasten by indiscriminately 
heaping up fuel ; all excess of heat is wasted when the boiling-point is 
once reached, and the benefit of a progressive cooking lost without expe- 
diting it. 

But to boil down or reduce gravy and sauces, a brisk fire, producing 
quick evaporation, is absolutely indispensable ; the contents would lose 
appearance and flavour if reduced too slowly. It is therefore of the 
utmost necessity that proper attention should be paid to the different 
simmering and boiling expressions used, such as gently, very gently, or 
on a slow fire and a brisk fire, in order to succeed in obtaining the 
desired effect and tiste. 



CHAPTER I. 

SOUPS— GRAVIES— MACARONI, ETC. 

What Must Always be Handy in the Kitchen and 

Larder. 

A SEASONiNO-BOX, Containing salt, white pepper, pepper- 
corns, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, cayenne, and all- 
spice, should always be handy on the kitchen-tabla A 
bottle each of olive- oil, white vinegar, and caramel or 
burnt sugar, a ball of string, and a perforated box of 
powdered or castor sugar on a shelf. Garlic and shalots in 
a small drawer by itself; onions in a basket. All fresh 
vegetables should be kept in a cool placa Flour, eggs, 
butter, rice, macaroni, and all paste should be kept in the 
larder, as well as all tinned preserves, such as peas, French 
beans, mushrooms, tomato sauce, and truffles ; also jams, 
marmalade, syrups, preserved fruits, pistachios, saffron, 
curry, parmesan cheese, capers, gherkins, vanilla, chocolate, 
coffee, lemons, orange-flower water, sago, tapioca, semolina, 
oatmeal, pearl barley, lard, bacon, ham, i^c, which should 
be brought to the kitchen as wanted. The following dry 
herbs should also be hung in a dry but not too hot place : — 
Thyme, sage, marjoram, bay-leaves, rosemary, basil, laurel- 
leaves, chives, and bumet. 

As ''bouquet garni ''^ will often be required in the 
process of cooking, I will give here the proper mode of 
preparing one, say, for a family of six or eight persons. 
Take a small handful of parsley weighing about one ounce 

* " Bouqaefc garni," a banch or faggot of dry aromatic herbs. 

IX 



12 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and wash it clean, add one ounce of thyme, the same weight 
of bay -leaves and marjoram, and one clove of garlic; roll 
the dry herbs into the parsley ; fold over each end ; and tie 
the bundle round with a small string. 



CARAMEL OR BURNT SUGAR. 

Caramel can be prepared in the following manner : — Take 
a small and very clean stewpau, put one pound of loaf-sugar 
in it, set the stewpan over the fire ; stir it continually w4th 
a wooden spoon till the sugar is thoroughly melted, then 
boil it very slowly for fifteen minutes, giving it an occasional 
stir, when the sugar is seen coming to a dark-brown colour ; 
add gradually one pint and a half of cold water, stirring the 
while, and letting it again boil slowly for another twenty 
minutes; then let it cool, strain and pour it into a clean 
bottle, which must be kept corked. It will keep thus for 
years. 

1. ORDINARY STOCK. 

Stock or broth is the principal element of good cooking, 
as well as the foundation of all soups, and of many sauces. 
No household should be without it; and as soup is also 
the first course served at a dinner, I will at once proceed 
with the mode of its preparation. 

In order to study economy, all bones from previously 
cooked meat should be collected, broken, and put in a stock- 
pot, together with any skin, gristle, and trimmings of fresh 
meat, as well as the remnants of cooked chicken and game 
bones that may be had. Add to the.se four or five pounds of 
leg of beef and a knuckle of veal ; cover the lot with cold 
water, say four quarts, and throw in a tablespoonful of 
salt ; boil gently for three or four hours, carefully remov- 
ing all scum and fat. from the top with a skimmer at the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 13 

beginning of the ebullition, otherwise it will paitially re- 
dissolve and spoil the clearness and flavour of the stock; 
then strain the liquor through a fine sieve into an earthen- 
ware pan, and remove to a cool place till next day. 

The above stock may be improved a great deal by adding 
two or three pennyworth of vegetables and ingredients, 
as in the following recipe, when a broth good enough for 
soup can be obtained. 

2. BROTH OR CONSOMM^. 

Take five pounds of the shin of beef, tie it with a string 
to keep it together ; add from one to two pounds of knuckle 
or leg of veal ; put these into a stock-pot with the stock 
made out of bones the previous day, to which a quart of 
cold water can be added. Should there be, however, no 
ordinary stock made, pour in four quarts of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of salt; set it over the fire till it 
nearly boils, when the scum must be removed most care- 
fully by frequent skimming; add at intervals about a 
gill of cold water, which will check the ebullition and 
help the scum to rise. When the scum is 'all removed, 
peel two ordinary-sized onions (not Spanish), stick in 
each three cloves, and drop them in the stock-pot ; wash 
two leeks and a small head of celery, tie them together; 
scrape two carrots of average size, slit into four and 
two inches in length ; peel two turnips and cut them 
into four; and then make a "bouquet garni" (page 11), 
and season with a teaspoonful of pepper-corns. These 
items should all be put in separately, in order to keep 
the contents of the stock-pot at the same temperature. 
Skim the liquor for the last time; after which let it 
simmer gently by the side of the fire for about three 
hours ; then take the meat out, skim off all the fat, and 



14 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

put it Ly in a basin ; so that, when cold, it can be used 
for frying or other purposes. 

A small cabbage cut in quarters, properly cleaned, as 
well as a few potatoes, cut in four and added two hours 
after the other vegetables, will be an improvement to the 
broth as well as a garnish to the meat. 

If proper attention is paid to the skimming and simmer- 
ing of the stock-pot, the clarifying of the broth will not 
be required; but should there be a failure in carrying 
out accordingly the instructions, the best thing to do is 
to take the whites and shells of three eggs; crush the 
shells well in the hands or in a mortar ; mix them with 
the whites and a quarter of a pint of cold water, whisk 
these well together in a basin for a few seconds, add 
half a pint of boiling broth, still beating the mixture, 
nnd pour it into the stock-pot ; stir the stock briskly till 
it boils; then remove the pot by the side of the fire; 
let it remain there for a few minutes or till the whites 
of the eggs rise to the surface; after which strain care^ 
fully, and the broth will be perfectly clarified. 

Pour some of the broth into a soup-tureen in which some 
thin slices of toasted bread have been previously placed ; 
add part of the cooked vegetables from the stock-pot. 
Nicely shred and serve. This is the real pot-au-feu, and 
considered the standard dish in France. 

Should the broth be preferred of a golden colour, pour 
a few drops only of caramel in a soup- ladle or spoon ; dip 
it into the soup-tureen and stir three or four times. 

Broth should be strained as follows : — Take an earthen- 
ware pan or basin of a size large enough to hold the 
quantity of broth made; lay over it a clean cloth and a 
fine hair sieve at the top of the cloth, pour on to it the 
contents of the stock- pot, and remove the strained broth 
to a cool place free from dust. A piece of muslin gauze 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 15 

may be placed over it, but never cover it entirely, nor at 
any time pour hot broth into the cold, as the reaction 
will turn it sour. 

Stock can be kept fresh and good for several days in 
cold weather, but during the summer it is advisable to boil 
it on the second day and every day afterwards. Storms 
aind thunder will also turn broth sour; and to prevent 
this, you should boil beforehand. 

If any particles of fat remain at the top of the broth, 
they can easily be removed in a solid state when cold. 
Blotting or kitchen paper laid on the surface of the broth 
will also remove all globules of fat. 

Note, — ^When the broth is properly made it will turn 
into jelly when cold. 

The boiled beef and veal taken out of the stock-pot 
will be found delicious if eaten hot with the remainder 
of the cooked vegetables and gherkins. I mention this 
because I know of several instances where it has been 
thrown away for want of knowledge. 



8. ORDINARY FAMILY STOCK. 

Broth made out of beef is always the best ; nevertheless, 
in country places where that meat can only be had with 
difficulty, mutton can be substituted, and by so doing make 
what is generally called mutton broth ; veal may also be 
added, when the broth will be all the richer. 

Take four pounds of neck or scrag of mutton and two 
pounds of leg of veal (if no veal, six pounds of mutton), 
put the meat in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, and 
brown nicely for about twenty minutes ; then pour in three 
quarts of cold water and add two onions; let the liquor 
come to the boil slowly. Skim as carefully as in Na 2, 
l^hen add two turnips cut in quarters, one carrot sliced 



i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in very small dice, and one ounce of pearl bai-ley previously 
blanched for ten minutes ; let the contents simmer for two 
hours; after which take the meat out, skim off the fat, 
then add a little parsley chopped fine, season to taste with 
salt only, and pour the broth into a soup- tureen with the 
carrots, turnips, and barley. 

Should some of the meat be desired with the soup, cut in 
small dice about half a pound of the lean mutton, add it to 
the soup ; mix well and serve. 

4. ORDINARY STOCK FOR GRAVY AND SAUCES. 

Put into a saucepan six pounds of shin of beef, two 
pounds of leg of veal, two carrots sliced, one onion, and 
half a head of celery cut in two ; brown the lot with two 
ounces of butter for about twenty minutes ; then add three 
quarts of stock No. i and an old fowl. Boil, and skim 
in the usual way, then let it simmer gently till the broth 
is reduced by one-half, then strain it into a pan. 

To further improve this stock, which will serve after- 
wards as a foundation to all brown sauces, add a piece of 
rabbit or an old partridge previously browned either before 
the fire or in the oven. 

Note, — ^No salt must be put in this stock. 

5. GRAVY SOUP. 

Put into a stewpan three rashers of bacon, two slices of 
ham, four pounds of lean beef (silver side or top side is the 
best), an old fowl, two pounds of leg of veal, two carrots cut 
in slices, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, half a head 
of celery, two leeks, two turnips, and a "bouquet garni." 
Pour in it one quart of No. i stock, reduce it by a sharp 
boiling of half an hour's duration, often stimng the con- 
tents with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. Then adci 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 17 

four quarts of a similar stock and boil it gently, when 
proper attention must be paid to the skimming ; after which 
draw it by the side of the fire and simmer for three hours. 
Meanwhile take about three pounds of leg of mutton, roast 
it half through and put it into the stewpan, continue the 
simmering till the mutton is properly cooked, then take all 
the meat out ; let the broth boil again for a few minutes, 
add about an ounce of sugar, a glass of sherry, and then 
strain in the usual way. 

This broth or gravy is very rich, and is generally served 
plain. 

6. VEAL BROTH. 

Take four pounds of either shoulder or leg of veal ; put 
it in a stewpan with two ounces of good fresh butter, and 
brown it nicely all round for half an hour. Meantime 
boil two quarts of water in a saucepan ; put the veal in, 
together with an onion having two cloves stuck in it, 
one carrot sliced, two leeks, and about one pound of lean 
beef cut in slices, which will add strength and taste to the 
broth ; skim in the usual way, add one fowl, and simmer 
gently for two hours ; then take the meat out, strain the 
broth, and serve. 

This broth is delicious, and can be recommended to 
invalids as well as to healthy persons. 

7. CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take two old fowls, killed the previous day, and put 
them in a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and 
about one pound of shin of beef ; cut in small pieces, let 
the liquor boil, skim carefully, then add separately an 
onion with a clove stuck in it^ half a head of celery, 
one carrot, and a "bouquet garni" composed of half the 
quantity given in the recipe, but no garlic. Then draw 

B 



l8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the saucepan by the side of the fire and let the broth 
simmer for two hours and a half or three hours, with the 
saucepan closely covered. Then take the meat out, clarify 
the broth if necessary and strain it as in No. 2, taking 
care to remove all particles of fat before serving. A 
similar broth can also be made with a turkey, goose, or 
two ducks; but special care should be taken with it, as 
the broth made from either of these birds is heavier, and 
consequently not so digestible. 

8. RABBIT BROTH PROVENgALE. 

The meat of young rabbits is generally tender ; it con- 
sequently possesses all the necessary qualities to make an 
excellent broth, and yields in no way, as far as taste and 
nourishment are concerned, to broth made out of chicken. 

Take two young rabbits, skin and clean them properly; 
cut into quarters and place in a stewpan with four table- 
spoonfuls of olive-oil, a clove of garlic minced fine, two 
rashers of bacon, one carrot, two onions, two leeks, and 
half a head of celery, all sliced as in No, 2. Add a 
"bouquet garni," and brown the lot for about fifteen 
minutes, stirring meanwhile with a wooden spoon to pre- 
vent burning; then pour in three quarts of cold water, 
boil, skim, and simmer for two hours, sprinkle salt and 
pepper to taste; strain and serve. A glass of dry white 
wine will much improve this broth. 

9. PARTRIDGE BROTH. 

Broth made with partridges is both warming and 
nourishing. 

Put two quarts of cold water into a saucepan, with two 
old partridges, cleaned and dressed as if for roasting, and 
two pounds of knuckle of veal; boil and skim, add a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 19 

similar quantity of vegetables and ** bouquet garni '' as in 
No 2; simmer gently for four hours, then strain in the 
UAual way. 

This broth is even preferred for strength and quality 
to the chicken broth, and can be strongly recommended 
to weak and convalescent persons. 

10. GAME BROTH A LA CHASSEUR. 

Small game-birds, such as snipe, thrushes, quail, larks, 
&C., make an excellent broth. Pluck and clean two or 
three birds of each soit (the more the better), put them 
into a good-sized stewpan with half a pound of ham cut in 
small dices, two quarts of cold water, and boil them three 
hours. Take the birds out ; add one pint of boiling water 
to the broth ; season with salt and white pepper to taste, 
and a little grated nutmeg ; boil for another quarter of an 
hour. Skim off both fat and scum, and pour into a soup- 
tureen. 

This broth is rather expensive, but very warming and 
nutritious. 

11. GAME BROTH. 

Put two ounces of good fresh butter into a saucepan, 
two carrots, one onion, two leeks, and the head of half a 
celery, all shred fine; brown the lot for eight or ten 
minutes ; then add three partridges, prepared as in No. 9, 
but from which the fillet must have been previously cat ; 
an old fowl; and all the bones or meat of cooked game 
or chicken that may be handy ; pour half a pint of good 
stock over these, reduce it by a gentle simmering for twenty 
minutes; give it an occasional stir to prevent buiiiing; 
then pour over it a glass and a half of sherry ; continue 
the simmering for a few minutes longer, then add three 



20 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

quarts of No. i stock, and let it boil on a good fire for half 
an hour ; after which draw by the side of the fire, add a 
" bouquet garni," two cloves, a dozen pepper-corns, and the 
flank of a hare properly browned; let the broth simmer 
for two hours and a half, when the fowl and partridges 
will be cooked; then take them out, strain the broth 
nicely, remove all particles of fat; pour the broth into a 
soup-tureen, and serve. 

12. A REFRESHING BROTH. 

Put into a stewpan four pounds of shin of beef, two pounds 
of knuckle of veal, and an old fowl ; bi*own these in two 
ounces of butter for twenty minutes, with two carrots, one 
turnip, half a head of celery, and an onion, all cut in slices; 
also the hearts of four lettuces and half an ounce of 
chervil; pour the lot into a small stock-pot with three 
quarts of cold water ; cover the stock -pot closely, and make 
it airtight with a border of paste all round made of flour 
and water. 

Put the stock-pot into a large saucepan or bain-marie, 
fill the latter three parts full of boiling water and let it 
boil for six hours; adding, as required, boiling water to 
the bain-marie; then strain the broth, skim the fat as in 
No. 2, and serve. 

This broth may be served as beef tea or soup, to weak, 
fatigued, or consumptive persons, being wholesome, nourish- 
ing, and refreshing. 

18. HOW TO MAKE BROTH IN A FEW MINUTES. 

Mince two pounds of lean beef, half a carrot, a little 
celery, and an onion ; put the lot in a stewpan with three 
pints of cold water, and salt to taste. Boil, skim, and 
strain. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 21 

Should there be, however, a wish for this broth to be 
improved, add at the same time as the other ingredients 
two ounces of rice or vermicelli in a muslin bag, and when 
cooked pour the contents of the bag into a soup-tureen with 
the broth, and serve. 



14u JULIENNE SOUP. 

Slice four carrots of ordinary size so as to leave the middle 
or heart part out; shred the other parts into small fillets 
or strips of about an inch and a half long ; add also in the 
same manner three turnips, one onion, one head of celery, 
and four leeks ; dry and mix the lot well together ; put them 
into a stewpan with one ounce and a half of good fresh 
butter; fry them to a nice brown colour; then add two 
branches of endive, a small lettuce, and a little chervil, all 
shred very fine. Mix well again, and pour two quarts of 
No. 2 broth, together with six leaves of sorrel previously 
blanched * and cut small Boil gently for twenty minutes 
or until the vegetables are perfectly well cooked; skim 
carefully ; add about half an ounce of sugar ; salt to taste ; 
then pour into a soup-tui'een with a few small crusts of 
bread fried in butter, and serve. 

15. SPRING SOUP. 

This soup, as its name implies, should only be made 
when the vegetables are fresh and tender; and to make 
it a success it is essential that all the following items 
should be cut fine. This will give a good opportunity to 
the cook to show his or her skill in shredding and cutting 
the said vegetables in artistic and decorative forms which 
are always pleasing to the eye. 

* Scalded or parboiled in saU water. 



22 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Take one carrot, one turnip, the heart of a small 
cabbage, half a head of eelerj, about two ounces of French 
beans, the same quantity each of green peas and aspara- 
gus-points;; boil the lot in salt water (asparagus apart) 
till properly cooked; then strain the water and pour the 
vegetables into a sauto-pan in which two or three spoon- 
fuls of either chicken or beef gravy have already been 
placed ; simmer for a few minutes ; then add one quart of 
No 2 broth ; salt to taste and two lumps of sugar ; boil, 
pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. 



16. CONDENSED BROTH OR GLAZE. 

Put into a stock-pot six pounds of shin of beef, eight 
pounds of leg of veal, an old fowl, two old pigeons, the same 
quantity of vegetables as in No 2, but first browned with 
butter; pour enough cold water to cover the whole (no 
salt nor bouquet). Let it boil ; skim properly ; cover the 
stock-pot closely, and let it boil gently for six hours; 
after which, strain through a fine cloth. Return the broth 
to a stewpan ; add a quart of boiling water, skim off all 
fat, and simmer till the broth is reduced to a gelatinous 
substance, stirring meanwhile the contents with a wooden 
spoon, till the gravy is thick enough to remain attached 
to the said spoon. Then pour it into an earthenware jar, 
the inside of which must be previously greased with either 
fresh butter or fine olive-oil ; let it get cold. Then lay flat 
at the top a sheet of white paper properly greased or oiled, 
and cut to the shape of the jar ; then place another cover, 
made of brown paper, over it, and tie it around with 
string. Put the jar on a shelf in the larder, as it is now 
ready for use. When it is wanted, i-emove the string and 
paper, and cut with a knife the glaase or condensed broth 
as required. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 23 

17. BRUNOISE SOUP. 

Cut in small dice the red part of three carrots, two 
turnips, one head of celery, two leeks, and half an onion. 
Blanch the lot in boiling salt water; strain through a 
colander, and pour them into a stewpan with an ounce and 
a half of fresh butter. Fry gently for five minutes ; then 
add three pints of No 2 broth ; simmer gently for twenty 
minutes ; skim and pour the soup into a tureen with a few 
slices of bread, and serve. 

Two or three spoonfuls of green peas properly blanched 
can also be added with advantage to the other vegetables. 

18. CHICKEN 6RAVT. 

Take two quarts of chicken broth and boil in a stewpan. 
Meantime melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in 
another stewpan ; add a similar weight of flour and three 
ounces of ham cut in slices; fry all to a brown colour; 
pour the boiling broth over and stir with a wooden spoon 
till it comes to the boil; then draw the stewpan by the 
side of the fire, and simmer for one hour, stirring the 
contents about every ten minutes to prevent burning; 
after which, skim and pass it through a sieve into a small 
earthenware pan or basin. 

This gravy must be nearly white, thick and smooth, 
and can be used either with purees made of chicken or 
vegetables, or with soups made of yolks of eggs. A 
similar gravy can also be made with veal broth, and is 
more economical 

19. GAME 6RAVT. 

Take two quarts of game broth, and follow the same 
recipe as No. 18. This gravy ought to be of a nice brown 



24 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

colour, and can Le nsed for strengthening game soups 
when required. 

20. FISH GRAVY. 

Brown some flour in butter as in No. i8 ; then add one 
quart of fish broth ; let it boil, skim, and strain as above. 

21. VEGETABLE GRAVY. 

Proceed in the same way as for fish gravy. 

22. POLISH SOUP. 

Bake eight large potatoes in the oven, peel, and put 
them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and one 
pint of chicken broth. Set the stewpan on the fire, and 
stir with a wooden spoon until the potatoes are well 
mashed ; then pass them through a sieve into the stewpan 
again with three pints of hot chicken broth ; simmer and 
stir gently for a few minutes. Meantime put in a basin the 
yolks of four eggs, two ounces of fresh melted butter, half 
a pint of cream, a little grated nutmeg, salt to taste, a 
tablespoon ful of grated parmesan cheese and the same 
quantity of powdered sugar ; mix these Nvell together with 
a whisk, and pour them into a soup- tureen with four 
spoonfuls of tagliatelli (see Paste) previously cooked in beef 
gravy; then pour the thick boiling broth over it, stir 
till well mixed, and serve. 

23. COND^ SOUP. 

Put two pounds of coloured haricot beans if fresh, 
or one pound if dry, into a stewpan, together with one 
partridge, a slice of gammon, and three pints of chicken 
broth properly seasoned with salt and pepper. Set it to 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 25 

the boil, and after an hour or so of boiling take the 
partridge and ham out; pass the beans through a sieve 
by rubbing with a wooden spoon ; put it in the stewpnn 
again with the broth ; let it simmer for five or six minutes 
longer; then pour it into a soup-tureen with three spoon- 
fuls of croiitons * fried in butter or quenelles. 

Note, — If dry beans are used, take care to soak them in 
water at least ten hours previous to boiling. 

24. pur£e cressy soup. 

Fry for ten minutes in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, eight ordinary-sized carrots, one onion, and two 
heads of celery, all shred fine ; also a pint of fresh haricot 
beans ; after which, add one quart of good broth ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Let it boil for an hour and a half ; then 
pass the vegetables through a fine sieve by rubbing in the 
usual way ; pour the purt^'e back to the stewpan with the 
remainder of the broth, to which another quart must be 
added, and about an ounce of sugar. Let it again boil gently 
for half an hour, without forgetting to stir the pur6e ; then 
pour it into a soup-tureen, with a few slices of bread cut 
thin. 

If this soup should be required "maigre,''t use plain 
water instead of broth, and before serving take the yolks of 
four eggs and two ounces of butter; whisk these well, and 
pour it into the soup-tureen as in No. 22. 

25. FISH BROTH. 

Fish with plenty of bone (the flesh of which is generally 
firm) is the best for soup ; and the greater the variety used 

* Crofttons are slices of cmmlM of bread out in small dice and fried 
ID claiified butter to a nice golden colour, 
t ** Maigre " means food made without meat of any kind. 



26 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the better the broth. Fry in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butter until nicely browned, two carrots, one onion, and 
half a head of celery, all sliced fine ; then add the different 
sorts of fish previoasly deaned and cut into pieces four 
inches long, with three pints of boiling water; salt and 
white pepper to taste. Boil fast on a good fire for about 
forty minutes ; skim carefully all fat and scum from the 
top, and pass the broth through a fine cloth. 

This broth must be clear and of a golden colour. Should 
it not, however, be so, it can easily be clarified with about a 
quarter of a pound of uncooked fish (the flesh only) and the 
whites of two eggs whisked, &a, as in No. 2 broth ; and if 
wanting in colour, pour a few drops of caramel and stir 
well before serving. 

26. ANOTHER FISH BROTH. 

Prepare everything as in No. 25 ; but instead of using 
plain water, take the water in which any vegetables may 
have been cooked (the more vegetables the better), and 
clarify in the same manner if necessary. 

27. FROG BROTH. 

I know well beforehand the expressions of disgust that 
will be felt in reading the heading of this broth ; neverthe- 
less, do not be led astray by an uneducated palate or a 
prejudiced opinion. Frogs are considered a delicacy in 
France, are quite as much appreciated in Italy and in Ger- 
many, and are reared on a very large scale in America; 
therefore, why should they not be cultivated and eaten iu 
Great Britain ? 

The mode of preparing this broth is as follows : — Put two 
ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan and fry to a nice brown ; 
two carrots, two onions, three spring onions if in season. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 27 

and the head of half a celery, all shred finely; also two 
pounds of fresh frogs properly skinned and cleaned. When 
the whole is nicely hrown pour three pints of boiling water 
over it ; salt and white pepper to taste ; boil gently for forty 
minutes ; then pass the broth through a fine cloth, and serve 
with a few crodtons fried in butter. 

Whoever partakes of this broth will ask for it again. 

28. FROG PUR^E SOUP. 

Take the flesh of two pounds of frogs, diy nicely with a 
cloth ; roll the pieces into some flour and fry them slowly 
in a stewpan with two ounces of butter till well done ; 
after which, pound them in a mortar, mixed with half a 
pint of Bechamel sauce ; then put the mixture into another 
stewpan ; dilute the purine with a quart of hot frog broth, 
stir occasionally, and boil for five or six minutes ; then pass 
it through a sieve and back again to the stewpan, with a 
little grated nutmeg ; salt and pepper to taste ; add more 
broth or water if required ; set it to the boil ; pour it into 
a soup-tureen with croiitons or quenelles, and serve. 

29. CRAYFISH BROTH. 

Brown in butter the same sort and quantity of vegetables 
as in No. 27. Meantime wash well in two waters thirty 
live crayfish ; place these in a saucepan with half a handful 
of parsley, two onions, the head of a celery, and two carrots, 
all shred fine; pour enough cold water to cover the lot; 
add a handful of salt ; cover the saucepan and boil fifteen 
minutes ; strain the water through a colander, and as soon 
as the crustaceans are cold take the meat out of the 
shells with your fingers ; place the meat from the claws 
and tails on a plate; pound the shells, with the inside 
residue, in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, 



28 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and mix it with the fried vegetables; fry this for a few 
minutes longer; then pour three pints of boiling water 
over it ; season with salt and pepper ; stir and simmer 
gently for ten minutes ; skim off the butter and place it on 
A plate apart ; pass the broth through a sieve and let it get 
cold ; then pour it into tho stewpan and boil till reduced by 
one-third ; after which, strain it through a cloth into a soup- 
tureen, and serve with the meat off the claws and crayfish- 
tails, keeping the butter to season sauces when required. 

30. VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Clean and scrape four carrots; peel six turnips, three 
leeks, three onions, and two small heads of celery; slice 
the lot in fours and sixes, and brown them in a stewpan 
with three ounces of fresh butter, first the onions and leeks, 
and afterwards the other vegetables; and when all are 
nicely coloured add about an ounce of sugar, half a pint 
of boiling water, and salt to taste. Cover the stewpan and 
let simmer for ten minutes; then pour in three pints of 
boiling water ; add a handful each of dry mushrooms and 
peas, which will give it a good flavour, and boil again 
gently for half an hour ; then strain through a sieve and a 
cloth into a soup-tureen in which some croQtons have 
already been put ; and serve. 

This broth can also be clarified with the whites of three 
eggs whisked, &c., as usual ; and if preferred, the vegetables 
can also be served with the broth; in that case do not 
strain it. 

81. ANOTHER VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Boil for five minutes in plenty of salt water one dozen 
each of new carrots and turnips, four onions, six leek.«, 
and three heads of celery ; then stt*ain through a colander, 
and pour the vegetables into a stock-pot or large stewpan, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 29 

together with two pounds of dry peas; add salt, white 
pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste; also twelve doves, 
three ounces of butter, and three quarts of boiling water. 
Let the contents boil till the peas are cooked ; then strain 
the broth through a sieve, and serve with slices of bread 
fried in butter. 

In this case, as in the previous number, vegetables can be 
added to the soup -tureen if liked. 

82. HERB SOUP. 

Blanch two lettuces, one handful of sorrel, and a little 
chervil dried and shred; place them in a stewpan with 
half a pint of broth ; simmer for a few minutes ; add one 
quart of broth, and boil for half an hour ; stir nicely ; add 
salt and pepper to taste ; pour into a soup-turaen with a 
few slices of bread, and serve. 

83. CLEAR ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Cut the green part of a bundle of fifty asparagus, not 
too large, into points ; boil them in salt water for twelve 
or fifteen minutes; strain through a colander, and pour 
them into a stewpan in which a quart of broth has already 
been set near to the boil ; let the contents simmer for five 
minutes only ; add salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 

84. CABBAGE SOUP. 

After having cut a cabbage (savoy preferred) in quarters 
and washed it carefully in salt water, blanch it with the 
head of a celery, and let it get cold ; then put the pieces 
into a stewpan with a good slice of ham, a rasher of bacon, 
and one quart of broth ; boil for forty minutes ; then take 
the ham and bacon out, add one pint of broth if required ; 



30 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

salt and pepper to taste; boil, and pour it into a soup- 
tureen with some slices of bread. 

This soup can also be made '' maigre " by substituting 
butter for ham and bacon, and water instead o( broth ; in 
that case, soak the slices of bread with half a pint of boiling 
milk in the soup-tureen before serving. 

85. CABBAGE SOUP, MILANAISE. 

Fry to a nice colour in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
butter, half an onion, half a carrot, and half a head of 
celery, all shred fine ; moisten the whole with a good broth, 
and boil for ten minutes; pass this through a sieve; pour 
the liquor back into the stewpan, with two tablespoon fuls of 
tomato sauce, two small savoys cut in fours, after having 
been blanched and the water squeezed out of them; also 
two rashers of bacon cut in dice, one sage-leaf," a little 
minced parsley, two quarts of broth, and a piece of bacon- 
rind cut in small dice. Let the contents boil for three- 
quarters of an hour; add one ounce of grated parmesan 
cheese ; salt and pepper to taste ; then pour all into a soup- 
tureen with some slices of bread, and serve with an ounce 
of grated cheese on a plate apart. 

86. TURNIP SOUP. 

Cut six turnips into dice, and brown them in a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter and a slice of ham ; after which, 
cook the contents well with a pint of good broth and two 
spoonfuls of tomato sauce ; boil till dona Then take the ham 
out, and skim off all the fat. Meantime have ready in a 
soup-tureen half a dozen slices of bread soaked in one quart- 
of good boiling broth, a handful each of green peas and 
asparagus-points (properly cooked apart) ; salt and pepper- 
to taste ; then pour the turnips with it, mix well, and serve.. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 31 

87. TURNIP PUR^E SOUP. 

Put eight turnips cut in quarters into a stewpan with 
two spring onions, two heads of celery sliced, two ounces 
of fresh butter, half a pint of chicken gravy, one pint of 
white haricot beans; salt and pepper to taste; simmer 
and stir gently for a few minutes, without browning the 
contents ; then pour one quart of veal broth over, and boil 
gently for an hour and a half ; pass the vegetables through 
a sieve by rubbing with a wooden spoon ; return the pur^e 
to the stewpan together with the remainder of the broth ; 
stir well in order to dilute the pur^e ; add another quait 
of white broth ; stir again ; add a piece of sugar the size of 
a walnut ; skim off the fat ; boil it for another half- hour ; 
give it an occasional stir to prevent burning ; then pour it 
into a soup-tureen with a few crotitons, and serve. 

38. LEEK SOUP. 

Cut six leeks an inch and a half long and sliced into 
fours ; fry them in a stewpan with one and a half ounce 
of butter till of a nice brown; then pour one quart of 
broth on it ; boil for fifteen minutes ; add one tablespoon - 
ful of gravy; salt and pepper to taste, and serve witli 
croiltons. This soup can also be made " maigre " by using 
water instead of broth; in that case add two ounces of 
butter before serving. 

89. MANOR-HOUSE SOUP. 

Put into A stewpan half a pint each of fresh shelled 
peas, French beans, and haricot beans, the red part of a 
caiTot, one head of celery, one turnip, and two leeks, all 
cut in the form of almonds ; also twelve shalots, the heart 
of a small cabbage cut in four, the hearts of two small 



32 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lettuces cut in halves, a few leaves of sorrel, a little chenil, 
an ounce of sugar, and grated nutmeg ; salt and pepper to 
taste ; add two quarts of good broth ; boil for three-quarters 
of an hour; pour the contents into a soup tureen with a 
few slices of bread, and serve. 

Note, — It is advisable, whenever a soup is made of dif- 
ferent kinds of vegetables, to add a piece of sugar the size 
of two walnuts in order to remove the sour taste from tlie 
broth which is invariably given by vegetables. 

40. GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Boil in plenty of salt water two pounds of fresh shelled 
peas (the larger the better) ; meantime blanch apart the 
hearts of two lettuces cut in quarters Jind a few leaves of 
sorrel ; dry well and place these in a stewpan with half a 
pint of gravy ; simmer till the lettuces are nicely glazed and 
the gravy nearly reduced ; then add three pints of good 
broth, and set it to the boil. When the peas are properly 
done strain the water through a colander ; throw the peas 
into the stewpan with the broth ; add a small piece of 
sugar ; skim, set to the boil, and serve with ci'outons fried 
in butter. 

41. NEW CARROT SOUP. 

Cut in dice twelve fresh en r rots ; llanch them in the 
usual way, strain the water through a colander, and let 
them cool ; meantime pour one quart of good broth int^ 
a stewpan with a piece of sugar ; set it to the boil ; and 
when the carrots are quite cold add them to the broth, 
together with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg to 
taste ; boil till the caiTots are done, and serve with a few 
slices of bread fiied in butter. 

This soup can also be made " maigre ; " in that case, boil 
the carrots with half milk, half water, and add two ounces 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 33 

of butter before serving. This broth is very refreshing, 
nnd strongly recommended to persons suffering with jaun- 
dice, having cured the writer when a boy. 

42. LETTUCE SOUP. 

Blanch in the usual way six or eight lettuces ; dip them 
afterwards in cold water; press and get them quite dry; 
put each separately into a saut^-pan in which has already 
been placed a slice of ham, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, 
half an onion with a clove stuck in it, and half a carrot 
sliced ; moisten the contents with a good broth ; cover the 
sautd-pan and let simmer till the lettuces are nicely glazed ; 
then add one quart of broth ; boil till done ; take the 
lettuces out with a flat strainer, cut them in halves, place 
in a soup-tureen, strain the broth over, and serve with 
crofitons. 

Half a pint of chicken broth, if handy, will greatly im- 
pi*ove this soup. 

43. STUFFED LETTUCE SOUP. 

Blanch the hearts of twelve lettuces cut in halves ; dip 
them in cold water and squeeze them well; place after- 
wards these lettuces separately on a board ; lay on each a 
spoonful of stuffing composed of quenelles of chicken with 
a little chervil minced fine. Fold the lettuces in oblong 
shape, so as to enclose the stuffing; transfer them one by 
one into a stewpan already containing half a pint of gravy, 
a slice of ham, and vegetables, as in No. 42. Simmer 
gently for a few minutes; then add one pint of chicken 
broth ; let it boil for fifteen or twenty minutes ; place the 
lettuces one by one into a soup-tureen ; pour the gravy over, 
after Laving strained it, together with one quart of boiling 

broth properly seasoned, and serve. 

c 



34 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

44. CLEAR SORREL SOUP. 

Clean and sbred about two pounds of sorrel, the hearts of 
two lettuces, and a little chervil ; fry the lot in a stewpan 
with two ounces of clarified butter, and pour over it a quart 
of boiling broth, with a piece of sugar ; salt and pepper to 
taste; let boil for twenty minutes; skim, pour it into a 
soup'tureen, and serve with crodtons fried in butter. 

In order to make this soup '^ maigre,*' after having added 
water instead of broth, take the yolks of four eggs, whisk 
them well into a basin ; then add half a pint of the boiling 
soup into it ; stir ; pour another half- pint of broth ; keep 
stirring ; and just before serving pour this mixture into the 
stewpan with two ounces of butter ; mix well ; set near to 
the boil, and serve as No. 43. 

46. THICK SORREL SOUP. 

Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin with an ounco 
of fresh butter and half a pint of hot broth ; whisk these 
well and pass it through a sieve; after which, pour it 
gradually into a stew-pan in which a purde of sorrel and 
other vegetables, as in No. 44, has already been made and 
diluted in a quart of boiling broth ; stir with a wooden 
spoon, in order to mix the contents well together; let it 
come as near as possible to the boil ; add an ounce of butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg to taste ; pour it 
into a soup-tureen, and serve with croCitons. 

46. ENDIVE SOUP. 

Blanch about one pound of endive ; dry, shred, and fiy it 
in a stewpan, with an ounce of fresh butter ; add one quai*t 
of broth, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Meantime 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 35 

whisk the yolks of four eggs with half a pint of the hot 
broth, and pour it into the stewpan ; mix this well ; add 
two spoonsful of brown sauce (No. 151) ; salt and pepper to 
taste, and when nearly boiling serve with either quenelles 
of chicken or croutons. 



47. CLERMONT SOUP. 

Slice six or eight onions, and brown in a stewpan with 
two ounces of clarified butter; take them out, dry them 
properly with a cloth, and pour into another stewpan 
with a quart of good broth; boil for fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; then add a little pounded marjoram ; salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve with croiitons on a plate apart 



48. POTATO AND CHERVIL FUR^E SOUP. 

Feel and cut in quarters six large potatoes ; boil them in 
salt water for five or six minutes, in order to remove all 
sourness ; strain the water ; pour the potatoes into a stew- 
pan with one quart of broth, two leeks, and half a head of 
celery ; boil till the potatoes are quite done ; then pass the 
whole through a sieve; return the purde to the stewpan, 
with the remainder of the broth; add some more if re- 
quired; also a little grated nutmeg, half a pint of cream, 
an ounce of fresh butter, and a little blanched chervil 
chopped very fine; set the stewpan on the fire, stir the 
contents well, in order to dilute and mix the purfe properly 
with the last-named ingredients ; and when near the boil 
pour it in a soup-tureen, and serve with crodtons on a plate 
apart. 

This soup can be made cheaper by substituting plain 
water for broth and milk instead of cream. 



36 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

441. CHANTILLY SOUP. 

Take one quart of lentils ; boil tbem in salt water till 
well done ; strain the water and pass the lentils through a 
sieve by rubbing ; put the pur^e back to the stewpan ; add 
in proportion one-third of chicken puree to one quart and 
a half of good broth, and set to the boil ; stir occasionally 
to prevent burning, and serve with croiitons or quenelles 
of chicken. 

Note. — Lentils must be washed and soaked for at least 
four hours previous to cooking. 

50. GREEN PEA PUR^E SOUP. 

Boil three pints of green peas in plenty of saltwater; 
meantime fry in a stewpan, with one ounce and a half 
of butter, one carrot, half an onion, half a head of celery, 
and two leeks, all shred fine^ as well as a slice of ham. 
When these items are nicely browned add one quart of 
broth, and let the contents boil for half an hour. 

When the peas are properly cooked strain the water and 
rub the peas through a sieve in the usual way ; strain also 
the broth through a fine sieve or cloth, mix the pur6e with 
it in the stewpan, boil and simmer for a few minutes; 
then add a piece of sugar and salt to taste. Skim, and 
serve with small croiltons fried in butter. 

If dry peas are used, soak them in water the previous 
night. This soup can be made with water instead of broth, 
and either can be improved by adding two ounces of cooked 
rice instead of cro(itons. 

51. CHESNUT PUR^E SOUP. 

Peel the first skin off about fifty chesnuts and put them 
in a stewpan with enough boiling water to cover the lot ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 37 

boil for five or six minutes; strain the water through a 
colander; take ofp the second skin and put the chesnuts 
in the stewpan with one quart and a half of good broth, 
one bay-leafy two cloves, and a slice of ham; boil these 
for twenty minutes ; strain the broth through a colander 
into a basin; throw away the bay-leaf and cloves; place 
the ham with half of the chesnuts apart, and keep hot the 
other half ; pound them through a sieve and put the puree 
back in the stewpan with the broth ; dilute the pur^ well ; 
boil and stir to prevent burning; add salt to taste, with 
a little grated nutmeg ; and after a few minutes' boiling 
pour it into a soup-tureen in which the other half of the 
chesnuts, as well as the ham cut in small dice, have already 
been deposited, and serve with a few croiitons fried in 
butter on a plate apart. 

52. LENTIL PUR^E SOUP. 

Put two pounds of properly soaked lentils into a stewpan, 
two tablespoonfuls of salt, a small carrot, one onion, one 
head of celery, two leeks, and two quarts of water; boil 
gently till the lentils are done, gradually adding during the 
boiling three gills of cold water to swell the lentils and 
accelerate their cooking ; then strain the water through a 
colander ; take the vegetables out and pass the lentils only 
through a sieve, by rubbing in the usual way with a wooden 
spoon; moisten now and then with a little hot broth to 
facilitate the passing of the puree. When this is done, 
return it to the stewpan; stir well in pouring gradually 
three pints of boiling broth ; let simmer for about twenty 
minutes, giving it an occasional stir to prevent burning ; 
then skim, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve with 
crodtons fried in butter. 

This soup can also be made "maigre" by using the water 



38 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in which the lentils were cooked, instead of broth, and by 
adding two ounces of butter before serving. 



58. WHITE HARICOT BEANS PUR^E SOUP. 

Prepare this pur6e in the same manner as the lentils or 
green peas ; but take care not to cook the beans too much, 
and before pouring the purde into the soup-tureen melt an 
ounce of fresh butter with it, and serve with small crodtons. 



54w HODENA SOUP. 

Blanch one pound of spinach ; dry, shred, and fry it in 
a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter; salt to taste, 
and stir till nicely glazed ; then let it get cold ; after which, 
add two eggs and a little grated nutmeg, well beaten to- 
gether ; pour the lot into a quart of boiling broth ; cover 
the stewpan with a hot lid, put a shovelful of embci*s 
on the top of it, and draw by the side of the fire for a few 
minutes, during which time the eggs will form a kind of 
smooth crust at the top of the broth ; then pour it into 
a soup-tureen with croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 

55. TRIPE SOUP HILANAISE. 

Put two pounds of cooked calfs tripe in a saucepan, 
with three quarts of boiling water ; simmer for ten minutes, 
and immerse it in cold water ; after a few minutes drain 
and wipe it with a cloth, then shred it an inch and a half 
long by a quarter of an inch thick. Meanwhile put in a 
stewpan one ounce and a half of butter, with the same 
quantity of fat bacon cut in small dice, and fry a shred 
onion to a nice brown colour with it ; then add the shred 
tripe and fry five minutes longer; after which moisten 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 39 

with three pints of broth ; simmer gently for two hours ) 
then add a few sprigs of parsley, half a head of celery, 
a carrot slit in four, and two leaves of sage, all tied 
together; simmer again for another hour; then skim off 
the fat, throw away the bouquet, season with salt and 
pepper ; pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with croutons 
and grated cheese on a plate apart. 

56. SOUP A LA ROMAINE. 

Melt three ounces of fresh beef marrow in a small 
stewpan and pass it through a fine strainer into a basin : 
break two eggs, beat and mix well with the marrow ; then 
add five ounces of bread crumbs which must have soaked 
in a pint of broth for at least half an hour ; season with 
salt and grated nutmeg to taste ; mix the lot well together, 
and pour it in a stewpan on the fire to simmer tUl dry, 
taking care to 'stir it the while ; then sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one of grated cheese ; stir and mix 
well for two minutes longer, then turn it over on a dish 
and let it cool ; when cold, turn the compound into small 
balls, hazelnut size, put them in a quart of boiling broth 
to poach five minutes ; then pour the contents into a soup- 
tureen and serve. 

Note. — Butter can be substituted for marrow. 

57. SOUP A LA VENITIENNE. 

Put in a stewpan the yolks of six eggs with a few drops 
of lemon juice, and add gradually a quart of cold broth 
over it, beating the contents meanwhile vnt\\ a whisk ; 
then let it boil, giving it an occasional stir, and when 
near ebullition season with salt and pepper ; pour it into 
a soup-tureen with a few slices of bread, and serve. 



40 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

58. LOMBARDO SOUP. 

Take half a pound of chicken stuffing (see Stuffing), 
divide it into three equal parts, flatten each surface with 
a knife and lay smooth on each separate part, first, two 
tahlepoonfuls of Bechamel sauce ; second, four tablespoon- 
fuls of green peas pur6e; and on the third, two table- 
spoonfuls of crayfish or lobster butter, previously mixed 
with the yolk of an egg well whisked, having by this 
means three different colours, white, green, and yellow. 
Meanwhile have three pints of good broth in a stewpan 
boiling and with a teaspoon fonn the three compounds 
in as many little quenelles as there will be teaspoon- 
fnls; throw them in the boiling broth to poach five 
minutes by a slow ebullition, then pour into a soup- 
tureen which already contains two dozen asparagus-points 
and three tablespoonfuls of green peas separately cooked 
in salt water, as well as three spoonfuls of croutons fried 
in crayfish or lobster butter, the tails of about a dozen 
crayfish, or the tail of half a small lobster cut in very 
small dice, a gill of sherry ; and serve. 

59. ROSSINI SOUP. 

Clean and dress four quails and cook them in a stewpan 
with a pint of game broth, or better still, game gravy ; let 
them get cold in their own liquor ; after which, bone and 
cut them in small fillets, put them in a soup-tureen with a 
shred carrot and a few chickens' kidneys previously fried 
and browned in butter, as well as half a dozen button 
champignons and same number of truffles cut in the shape 
of small olives. Meanwhile have a little game forcemeat 
(No. 273) diluted with a quart of boiling broth ready, pour 
it into the soup-tureen, properly seasoned, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 41 



60. EGO SOUP. 

Wbisk eight eggs and mix it well with a pint of cold 
broth ; then put the liquor into a bain-marie * on a good 
fire ; boil till the eggs are hard ; then take the compound 
out with a spoon, and place it in a soup-tureen in which 
some slices of bread are already soaking in a quart of 
boiling broth nicely coloured, and serve. 

61. A LA REINE PUR£E SOUP. 

Boil a young turkey or two nice chickens in three quarts 
of white broth ; when well cooked skim and remove the 
fat from the birds ; cut all the meat off from the bones and 
sinews, mince and pound it well in a mortar ; put the pur6e 
in a stewpan with a pint of Blanquette sauce (No 178), 
dilute the contents with half a pint of white broth, and 
pass it through a fine sieve into the stewpan again; 
1x)l1, and stir. Add a pint of Blanquette sauce if too 
thin, or white stock if too thick. Season with salt and 
pepper, mix well together by stirring with a wooden spoon 
on the fire, let simmer for five or six minutes, then pour 
it into a soup-tureen with or without three spoonfuls of 
well-cooked rice or croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 

62. ARTOIS SOUP. 

Make a puree of green peas (No. 50) ; meanwhile fry in 
a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, a handful of croiltons 
and about two ounces of pickled ox- tongue cut in small 
dice ; mix these with the purde when made, boil, stir, and 
servo. 

* A saucepan put into a large yessel or a lurger saucepan with boiling 
water iu it. 



42 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

68. NAVARIN SOUP. 

Make a pur6e of green peas as described above; pour it 
into a soup-tureen with one dozen small poached quenelles 
of pheasant, one dozen pieces of eels boned and fried in 
butter, the tails of twenty crayfish, and two ounces of 
green peas cooked in salt water, and serve. 

This is one of the most delicious and best soups that 
can be put on the table, but it is also one of the most 
expensive. 

64. GAME OR CHICKEN PURINE SOUP. 

Cook all the remnants of game or chicken that may be 
had in a quart of broth, with vegetables, in proportion, as 
in other soups; when well done strain the broth into a 
basin, scrape all the meat from the bones, and pound it 
in a mortar with three spoonfuls of cooked rice; put the 
purde into a stewpan and dilute it with the broth just 
made; after which, pass the lot through a fine sieve; return 
it to the stewpan ; add, if required, some more broth, 
season with salt and pepper, boil, and pour it into a soup- 
tureen with crotitons fried in butter. 

65. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Bone and blanch for ten minutes the half of a calf's 
head (which must be fresh and young) ; put it in a large 
stewpan or stock-pot with a good slice of ham cut in dice, 
about two pounds of leg of veal, two carrots, two turnips, 
two leeks, half a head of celery, an onion with two cloves 
stuck in it, two shalots and a *^ bouquet garni,'' as well as 
a bay-leaf ; add three quarts of cold broth and boil. Skim 
properly, and boil for about two hours, or until the calf's 
head is well cooked and made tender; then strain the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 43 

broth into a stewpan, put the calf's head apart on a dish, 
and let the broth boil. Meantime brown two ounces of 
flour with one ounce of butter in a small stewpan; stir 
well with a wooden spoon, and when of a dark-brown 
colour pour gradually over it a quart of the boiling broth, 
stirring the while ; and when properly mixed pour it heuck 
with the other broth, stir it well, and boil for a few 
minutes longer ; skim off all the fat and scum ; add two 
glasses of sherry, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper 
to taste. Cut part of the calf's head into small dice, put 
these into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. 

This soup is also made clear; in that case no flour is 
needed. In other respects, proceed as above ; but especial 
care should be paid to the clarifying of the broth before 



serving. 



66. OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Cut at the different joints two ox-tails, so that the pieces 
are as nearly as possible of the same size ; soak them after- 
wards in cold salt water for about an hour or two to remove 
the blood, then wipe the pieces with a cloth and fry them 
in a stewpan with two ounces of butter to a nice brown ; 
after which, add two quarts of stock, an onion with two 
cloves, and a ^'bouquet gamL" Boil, skim, and simmer 
for three or four hours, or until the pieces of ox-tail 
are well cooked. Meantime cut a caiTot and a turnip 
in small dice, shred an onion very flne, fry these in a 
stewpan with one ounce of butter till nicely browned, then 
moisten with a little broth, and simmer till well done. 
When the pieces of ox-tail are properly cooked skim off 
the fat, and pour the meat and broth into the soup-tureen 
with the vegetables cooked apart This can also be made 
thick by adding flour prepared in the same way as mock 
turtle (No. 65). 



44 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

67. HARE SOUP A LA SUSINOISE. 

Cut in dice of mediuni size the fillet as well as the most 
fleshy and tender part of a hare, cook it in a quart of good 
broth, and when done strain the broth through a fine sieve ; 
put it back into the stewpan ; add more broth, if required, 
and boil. Meantime put the pieces of hare into a soup- 
tui-een with four spoonfuls of big haricot beans, one turnip, 
one carrot, the heart of a small cabbage, and half a head 
of celery all shred fine, well cooked, and soaked in game 
gravy ; pour the boiling broth over, and serve. 

6& HARE SOUP (ENGUSH STYLE). 

Cut in small parts the half of a hare ; fry the pieces in a 
stewpan with three ounces of fat bacon cut in dice, and 
the same quantity of butter; when the pieces of hare are 
browned let them get cold in the stewpan ; then add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, half a bottle of claret, one quart of 
broth, a small " bouquet garni," one dozen small button 
mushrooms, an onion, a little cayenne, two cloves, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. Boil, skim, and simmer 
for about an hour ; after which, take the pieces of hare out, 
bone them, put the meat back into a clean stewpan with 
a dozen small quenelles of chicken ; strain the broth in 
which the hare was cooked over the meat and quenelles, 
add some more hot broth if required, boil, and serve. 

69. RICE QUENELLES SOUP. 

Prepai*e a good risotto (see Risotto) with four ounces of 
rice ; lay it on a dish to get cold. Meanwhile take half a 
pound of chicken breast or lean fillet of veal and two ounces 
of either chicken or calf s liver ; hash this fine and brown it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 45 

well in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter ; then pound 
it in a mortar with the risotto; mix the contents well 
together with three whisked eggs, a little grated nutmeg, 
and salt to taste; pass the lot through a sieve into an 
earthenware pan, moisten with a little boiling broth or 
water, stir till nicely soft and firm; if too thick add a 
little bechamel, or if too clear the yolks of a few eggs ; mix 
well ; then take a teaspoon in each hand, and with them 
shape the compound into small quenelles, put them in a 
buttered saute-pan, and ten minutes before serving pour 
over tbem a quart of boiling broth, boil for six or eight 
minutes before pouring it into a soup- tureen, and serve. 

70. VEGETABLE QUENELLES SOUP. 

Boil three pints of green peas in plenty of salt water and 
a little mint ; when well cooked strain the water, put the 
peas in a stewpan, and mix them well with an ounce of 
fresh butter, a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, a little grated 
cheese and nutmeg, and salt to taste. Let it get cold ; then 
proceed to make a dozen quenelles as in No. 69, boil these 
in the same way, and serve. 

By the same process, quenelles can be made with lentils, 
white haricot beans, and carrots. 



71. POTATO QUENELLES SOUP. 

Pound in a mortar six ounces of cold potato pur(!e with 
the boned meat of half a cooked fowl ; add salt to taste, a 
little grated cheese and nutmeg, two eggf^, and the yolks of 
two more; mix these well together, and pass it through 
a sieve. Having thus a thick puree, turn it into small 
quenelles, poach these in a quart of boiling broth for 
fifteen minutes, and sen^e. 



46 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



72. GAME OR CHICKEN QUENELLES SOUP. 

These quenelles are prepared with either game or fowl 
stuffing (see Stuffing), and when made, boil them, as above 
in a quart of good broth, and serve. 



78. VENITLAil QUENELLES SOUP. 

\Brown in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a 
similar quantity of flour, then add one ounce of grated 
cheese and a gill of good broth; work the contents to a 
paste (on the fire) with a wooden . spoon, then draw the 
stewpan away from the fire, add the yolks of six eggs, stir 
again till well mixed, and let it get cold ; then make the 
quenelles as before ; poach them in a quart of boiling broth 
for a quarter of an hour, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 

74w GERMAN QUENELLES SOUP. 

Proceed with these quenelles as in the foregoing, with a 
mixture of six ounces of calf's liver and three ounces of 
bacon cut in dice, the same quantity of bread crumbs, two 
ounces of butter, three eggs, and a gill of cream ; pound 
the lot well together in a mortar, and pass it through a 
sieve ; make the quenelles and boil them for fifteen minutes 
in a quart of broth, and serve. 

75. A LA REINE QUENELLES SOUP. 

These quenelles are made with a mixture of ten ounces 
of either the raw or cooked flesh of a fowl, two ounces of 
fresh butter, three of potato pur^, and the yolks of three 
eggs ; the whole well pounded, seasoned, and mixed together^ 
and poached in a quart of broth as before. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 47 

76. SWISS POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and boil in salt water one pound of potatoes ; let 
them get cold, then pound them in a mortar with a piece 
of well-cooked meat hashed fine, with two ounces of fat 
bacon, one of butter, four eggs, a pinch of pounded 
aromatic herbs, and salt to taste ; when well pounded and 
mixed together, turn it into small balls the size of small 
nuts, drop them into a quart of boiling broth to poach for 
a few minutes, and serve. 

• If preferred, these balls may be fried in butter and 
served in boiling broth. 

77. DAWN SOUP. 

Whisk the yolks of ten eggs with two ounces of melted 
fresh butter, two spoonfuls of velout^ (No. 153), and a 
little grated nutmeg. Boil three pints of broth; when 
boiling, pour the half of it gradually over the egg mix- 
ture, taking care to stir the while. When properly mixed 
and diluted, pour the contents back with the other broth 
over the fire, still stirring ; and as soon as it boils, pass it 
through a sieve into a souptureen ; add a glass of Marsala 
or sherry, and serve with crodtons fried in butter. 

78. ONION SOUP A LA LYONNAISE. 

Peel four medium- sized onions, shred, and fry them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter till nicely browned ; then 
sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of flour ; continue frying and 
stirring for three minutes longer ; after which, pour three 
pints of boiling broth, season with salt and pepper, stir 
and mix all well together, and simmer for ten minutes. 
In the meantime put eight dry or toasted slices of bread 



46 PRACTICAL HQUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



7a GAME OR CHICKEN QUENELLES SOUP. 

These quenelles are prepared with either game or fowl 
stuffing (see Stuffing), and when made, boil them, as above 
in a quart of good broth, and serve. 



78. VENITDLN QUENELLES SOUP. 

vBrown in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a 
similar quantity of flour, then add one ounce of grated 
cheese and a gill of good broth; work the contents to a 
paste (on the fire) with a wooden . spoon, then draw the 
stewpan away from the fire, add the yolks of six eggs, stir 
again till well mixed, and let it get cold ; then make the 
quenelles as before ; poach them in a quart of boiling broth 
for a quarter of an hour, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 

74. GERMAN QUENELLES SOUP. 

Proceed with these quenelles as in the foregoing, with a 
mixture of six ounces of calf's liver and three ounces of 
bacon cut in dice, the same quantity of bread crumbs, two 
ounces of butter, three eggs, and a gill of cream ; pound 
the lot well together in a mortar, and pass it through a 
sieve ; make the quenelles and boil them for fifteen minutes 
in a quart of broth, and serve. 

75. A LA REINE QUENELLES SOUP. 

These quenelles are made with a mixture of ten ounces 
of either the raw or cooked flesh of a fowl, two ounces of 
fresh butter, three of potato pur6e, and the yolks of three 
eggs ; the whole well pounded, seasoned, and mixed together^ 
and poached in a quart of broth as before. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 47 

76. SWISS POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and boil in salt water one pound of potatoes ; let 
them got cold, then pound them in a mortar with a piece 
of well-cooked meat hashed fine, with two ounces of fat 
bacon, one of butter, four eggs, a pinch of pounded 
aromatic herbs, and salt to taste ; when well pounded and 
mixed together, turn it into small balls the size of small 
nuts, drop them into a quart of boiling broth to poach for 
a few minutes, and serve. 

• If preferred, these balls may be fried in butter aud 
served in boiling broth. 

77. DAWN SOUP. 

Whisk the jolks of ten eggs with two ounces of melted 
fresh butter, two spoonfuls of velout6 (No. iS3)> and a 
little grated nutmeg. Boil three pints of broth ; when 
boiling, pour the half of it gradually over the egg mix- 
ture, taking care to stir the while. When properly mixed 
and diluted, pour the contents back with the other broth 
over the fire, still stirring ; and as soon as it boils, pass it 
through a sieve into a souptureen ; add a glass of Marsala 
or sherry, and serve with croi)tons fried in butter. 

78. ONION SOUP A LA LYONNAISE. 

Peel four medium- sized onions, shred, and fry them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter till nicely browned ; then 
sprinkle two tnblespoonfuls of flour ; continue frying and 
stirring for three minutes longer ; after which, pour three 
pints of boiling broth, season with salt and pepper, stir 
and mix all well together, and simmer for ten minutes. 
In the meantime put eight dry or toasted slices of bread 



48 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

* 

into a soup tureen, with a handful of grated cheese at tlie 
top, pour the boiling soup over, sprinkle another handful of 
grated cheese over the broth, and place the soup- tureen in 
a moderately heated oven for a few minutes before serving. 



79. ONION SOUP "MAIGRE. 



»9 



Proceed with the frying of the onions and flour as in the 
pi*evious number. Substitute boiling water for broth, and 
simmer ten minutes; whisk the yolks of four eggs in a 
basin; mix this well together with a pint of the boiling 
water, and just before serving pour it back into the stew- 
pan with one ounce and a half of butter; stir well, season 
with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and when 
nearly boiling pour it into a soup-tureen, garnished (as in 
No. 78) with bread and cheese, and put in the oven for a 
few minutes before serving. 



80. SHEEP'S HEAD SOUP. 

Take a sheep's head, split in two, pick the brains out and 
put them in a basin to steep in cold water ; soak the head 
in boiling water for five or ten minutes, wash it well, then 
put it in a stewpan with two quarts of cold water ; boil ; 
skim it very carefully, then add the same quantity of vege- 
tables and " bouquet garni " as in No. 2 broth ; simmer 
for about three hours, put the head on a hot dish, skim off 
the fat, strain the broth through a sieve, and serve with a 
few slices of bread and some of the vegetables, or better 
still, with some pearl barley or rice cooked in a muslin bag 
with the broth. 

The sheep's head is very good eaten hot with either a 
sharp or tomato sauce. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 49 



Remarks on Macaroni and Paste of all Descriftioxs, 

AND how to Cook Tt. 

All pastes such as macaroni, vermicelli, spaghetti, taglia- 
telH, &c. &c., can he served with broth, and one can always 
obtain a good soup with them at a few minutes' notice. 
Likewise paste can also be served as a luxury by different 
modes of preparation. 

The custom in Italy is that, whenever paste or rice is 
served as a made dish, it takes the place of soup. 

Although, as I have said before, paste can be served in 
many different ways, the mode of its cooking is always the 
same. Amongst the several sorts and qualities imported to 
this country, those from Naples and Genoa are the best ; 
and for boiling purposes (that is to say, for soups) those from 
the latter place are pi*^ferred. The time taken for cooking 
varies according to the age and size of the paste ; vermi- 
celli from Naples may be cooked in five minutes, while 
Genoa macaron'i (if old) may take half an hour. 

Tlie only way of boiling paste is to plunge it in plenty 
of boiling salt water, and never on any account soak it 
beforehand. 

As a future guidance in boiling all kinds of paste, I will 
describe the proper mode of cooking, say, one pound of 
macaroni. Put three quarts of water and a tablespoonful 
of salt in an ordinary saucepan, on a good fire. When 
the water boils fast, immerse the macaroni, and cover the 
saucepan for ten minutes ; after this take the lid oS and 
try now and then if the macaroni is cooked by a slight 
pressure between finger and thumb ; as soon aa it yields to 
the pinch, stop the boiling at once by pouring a pint of 
cold water into the saucepan ; strain the water throu<i^h a 

D 



so PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

colander, as the macaroni is now cooked and ready for 
use. 

Note. — All descnptions of paste should be eaten as soon 
as cooked. 

81. PLAIN MACARONI SOUP. 

Cut in pieces of about two inches long half a pound of 
macaroni cooked and strained as described in the previous 
remarks, and put it in a soup- tureen, then pour one quart 
of boiling broth over, and serve with grated cheese apart. 

Shred carrots, haricot beans, french beans, green peas, 
or any other vegetables can also be added in small 
quantities to this soup, provided they have been properly 
cooked in salt water and glazed in a stewpan with good 
gravy beforehand. 

The mode of preparing other kinds of plain paste soup 
is exactly the same as this. 



82. MACARONI SOUP (SARDE). 

Peel and slice an onion in small dice ; put these into a 
stewpan with one ounce and a half of butter and two 
ounces of leg of veal, also cut in small dice. Fry the lot 
to a nice brown coloui*, then add five ripe tomatoes, pre- 
viously peeled and passed through a sieve ; moisten with 
three pints of good broth ; season with salt and pepper, 
and boil for half an hour. Meantime cook and strain as 
described one pound of macaroni ; put it in a stewpan with 
an ounce of fresh butter and one and a half of grated 
cheese ; toss this up well together on the fire ; then pour it 
into the other stewpan with the broth ; stir, and serva 

This soup can be varied by using other kinds of paste, 
and substituting chicken, mutton, or game for veal. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 51 



88. MACARONI SOUP (PALERMO). 

Put into a well buttered stewpan three slices of gammon , 
one pound of lean beef, the same quantity of knuckle, ono 
fowl, the same quantity of vegetables as if for a soup, and 
half a pint of good broth ; set the lot to simmer, and when 
nicely browned all around add three pints of boiling broth ; 
simmer for one hour and a half, then take the meat and 
vegetables out, skim, clarify, and strain the broth through 
a fine cloth, and put it back again into the stewpan by the 
side of the fire. Meantime cook one pound of macaroni 
as indicated, strain and cut it in pieces three inches long, 
put it into the broth, and boil slowly for a few minutes. 
Prepare and mix in another stewpan on the fire the yolks 
of four eggs whisked and passed through a sieve, with a 
gill of cream, half an ounce of grated cheese, one ounce of 
butter, salt and a little white pepper to taste. When the 
butter is melted and the lot well whisked together pour it 
over with the broth, give it a good stir so as to mix well 
the contents, and when near the boil pour into a soup- 
tureen, and serve with grated cheese on a plate apart. 



84. MACARONI SOUP A LA REINE. 

Pound in a. mortar the breast of a chicken not too much 
cooked, mix it with a gill of supreme sauce (No. 188), pass it 
through a sieve, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Mean- 
while cook one pound of macaroni when drained, place 
it in a saut6-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, three 
or four spoonfuls of grated cheese, and as many of chicken 
gravy. Toss this up well in the saut^-pan, then add the 
hot purde of chicken to it, and toss again so as to mix the lot 
well together. When this is done and the compound made 



52 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

quite hot dress it up on a dish, and serve with one quart 
or three pints of boiling broth in a soup-tureen apart. 



85. MACARONI SOUP (M0N6LAS). 

Cook and strain one pound of macaroni; put it in a 
saute-pan with two ounces of fresh butter divided in five 
or six parts, and placed in as well as over the macaroni ; 
move the saut^-pan over a slow fire, sprinkle half an ounce 
of grated cheese over it, then place in the centre the 
fleshy part of half a cooked fowl, properly boned and cut 
in small dice, also a few slic&s of truffles, two spoonfuls 
of foie-gras, a few mushrooms sliced fine and slightly 
seasoned with a veloute sauce (No. 153). When those are 
nicely warmed up turn it into a hot dish, and serve with 
three pints of boiling broth in a soup-tureen apart 



86. MACARONI SOUP (CARDINALE). 

Prepare (after cooking) the tails of twenty-four or thirty 
crayfish ; put them apart with a little hot broth in a small 
stewpan by the side of the fire, to keep them hot. Pound 
the shells well and make a crayfish butter (No. 1 69) ; mix 
three spoonfuls of supreme sauce (No. 188) with two of purte 
of mushrooms. Cook and strain one poimd of macaroni, 
put it in a saut^-pan with the two ounces of crayfish 
butter just made; add two ounces of grated cheese, the 
purde of mushrooms and supreme sauce, mix well together 
by tossing it up whilst over the fire, and when properly 
warmed dish it up on a hot dish ; then strain the crayfish 
tails and place them nicely one by one over the macaroni 
as a decorative garnish, and serve with three pints of 
boiling broth in a soup-tureen apart 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 53 

87. MACARONI SOUP (DOMINICAINE). 

Soak in lukewarm water for a few minutes about three 
ounces of dry mushrooms ; then drain and put them in a 
stewpan with one pint of fish broth, an onion, a carrot, 
a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of parsley. Simmer these 
for an hour on a slow fire, strain the broth and return it 
to the stewpan, save the mushrooms; soak three ounces 
of bread crumbs in water, strain and press the water well 
out of it ; put the bread with the cooked mushrooms into 
the stewpan with the essence just strained ; let these simmer 
and dry ; stir, and when well reduced and the bread crumbs 
as well as the mushrooms are crisp, pass them through a 
sieve. In the meantime cook and strain one pound of 
macaroni, put it in a saut^-pan with a gill of olive-oil ; add 
the bread crumbs and a little anchovy paste with it ; keep 
the saute-pan over the fire, stir the contents well, and 
when very hot pour it into a soup-tureen with three pints 
of boiling fish broth properly seasoned. 

This soup is thoroughly " maigre," and is generally served 
to Roman Catholics on fasting days. 

88. PLAIN MACARONI CHEESE. 

Cook and strain one pound of macaroni ; put two ounces 
of fresh butter into a stewpan, and when melted pour 
the macaroni over with three tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese; toss it up till well mixed and made hot; season 
with white pepper only, turn it into a hot dish, and serve 
with a little grated cheese and nutmeg sprinkled on the 
top. 

89. MACARONI (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Put one pounds of cooked and strained macaroni into a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, three spoonfuls of 



54 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tomato sauce, and as many of beef gravy ; toss up the lot 
on the fire so as to mix and warm it well together ; then 
sprinkle two handfuls of grated cheese over it, season with 
a little white pepper, toss up again and turn it into a hot 
dish, sprinkle again a little grated cheese on the top, with 
three tablespoonf uls of good beef gravy, and serva 



90. HACABONI (CITIZEN STYLE). 

Boil one pound and a half of macaroni ; strain, and put 
it in a stewpan on the fire with two ounces of butter, 
one pint of good broth ; salt and pepper to taste. Boil 
it ; sprinkle over two ounces of grated cheese, add a little 
more butter, toss it up gently, pour it into a hot dish, 
sprinkle a little more grated cheese and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of hot roast-beef gravy or brown sauce over it, 
and serve. 

91. MACARONI A LA NAPOUTAINE. 

Cut one pound of leg of veal in thin slices of about six 
inches long by two wide, prepare about a quarter of a pound 
of veal or chicken stuffing (see Stuffing), and place it with 
a teaspoon in the centre of each slice of veal ; roll the slices 
round so as to enclose the stuffing, flour these and put them 
in a saut^-pan with two ounces of clarified butter, together 
with a calfs brains properly blanched and sliced ; fry the 
lot to a nice colour, then moisten with half a pint of good 
broth or gravy, and simmer till cooked and tender. Mean- 
time break one pound of macaroni in short pieces, boil and 
strain in the usual way ; put it in a stewpan with half a 
pint of good broth or gravy, simmer till nearly reduced; 
then add a little butter, two handfuls of grated cheese, and 
a little grated nutmeg; stir well, pour it into a hot dish 
with the veal and brains nicely and alternately arranged at 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 55 

the top; sprinkle the remainder of the gravy out of the 
saute-pon over it, and serve with grated cheese apart 



92. MACARONI AU 6RATIN. 

Boil one pound of macaroni in the usual way for a quarter 
of an hour or so ; strain off the water ; return the macaroni 
into the saucepan with a pint of milk ; boil till the milk is 
absorbed, then add an ounce each of grated cheese and 
butter ; mix well with the macaroni by shaking the sauce- 
pan and tossing it up. When well mixed pour it into a 
gra tin-dish I with two ounces more of grated cheese sprinkled 
over it, as well as a little bread raspings, grated nutmeg, and 
an ounce of butter divided in five or six pieces. Put the 
gratin-dish in a well-heated oven till it has attained a nice 
golden colour and serve in the gratin-dish. 

If preferred, the completion of the cooking of macaroni 
can be made in broth instead of milk. 

98. MACARONI (COUNTRY STYLE). 

Cut about two pounds of the round or shoulder of beef 
in three-inch dice ; shred an onion and fry it in a fiying- 
pan with an ounce of butter ; when the onion is of a nice 
yellow colour, add the pi!9ces of beef to it and brown them 
for five minutes; after which, draw the pan away from the 
fira Take a good-sized pie- dish and half a pound of un- 
cooked macaroni ; break this in short pieces and divide it 
in three parts ; lay one part at the bottom of the pie-dish, 
nicely buttered ; then put the half of the meat and onions 
on this layer, season well with salt and pepper; make 
another layer of macaroni, place the remainder of the meat 
and onions on it, season as before, and cover these with 
the third part of macaroni; moisten the lot with broth 
three-parts full, cover the pie-dish closely with a plain 



56 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

flour and water paste, or with another pie-dish turned 
over it, and put it in a well-heated oven for about an hour ; 
after which, remove the cover, sprinkle a little grated cheese 
over the top, and serve in the pie-dish. 

Note. — ^Tbe same thing can be done with mutton or 
veaL 

94. MACARONI MILANAISE. 

Boil one pound of macaroni, strain, and cut it up in 
three-inch lengths, put it in a stewpan with three ounces 
of butter, four ounces of grated Gruj^re cheese, a little 
grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and half a pint 
of good cream ; set the stewpan over a moderate fire, toss 
up the whole well together until quite hot, then shake it 
up for a few minutes to make the cheese spin, and serve. 

95. TA6LIATELLI (HOUSEWIFE STTLE). 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the paste-board, make a 
well in the centre, break five eggs in it, add a teaspoonful 
of salt and about an ounce of butter, with enough lukewarm 
water to melt the salt, work these well together to a firm 
smooth paste, and finish it by pressing the paste from you 
with the palms of the hands. Then cut it into four pieces, 
and roll it with the rolling-pin to the thickness of about the 
sixteenth part of an inch, let it dry for a little while, then 
fold each piece in ribbons of about two inches wide, taking 
care to sprinkle a little flour between the folds ; cut these 
through crossways into shreds about the eighth of an inch, 
take them up gently with both hands, to loosen them and 
prevent their adhering to one another, spread them again 
on the paste-board, and when all the paste is shred in this 
way immerse them (a few at a time) in three quarts of boil- 
ing salt water; stir, while you drop them in to prevent 
their getting lumpy, and after five or six minutes of sharp 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 57 

ebullition drain them well on a sieve ; put them afterwards 
in a stewpan with half a pint of broth, two ounces of butter, 
salt and pepper to taste; let them simmer for a few minutes ; 
then add three ounces of grated cheese, two or three epoon- 
fuls of good beef gravy, and toss the contents whilst over 
the fire, so as to mix well together, and sen^e. 

96. TAGLIATELLI A LA CHASSEUR. 

Prepare a pound of tnglintclli as in Xo. 95, boil them 
in salt water for five minutes } strain them on a sieve 
and put them in a stewpan on the fire with one pint of 
gnme broth, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of pepper ; 
simmer until the broth is reduced; then add about two 
ounces of grated cheese, an ounce of butter, and two dozen 
small quenelles of game previously cooked in gravy; toss 
the whole lightly over the fire until the cheese is well 
mixed with the tagliatelli, then pour the cootents into a 
hot dish, sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of hot game gravy 
over the paste, and serve. 

Tagliatelli can be prepared and served in every respect 
like macaroni. 

96a. TAGLUTELU A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare a pound of tagliatelli as dcsciibed in No. 95. 
Found a small clove of garlic, with three ounces of 
pnrmesan cheeee and a sprig of green basil, in a mortar ; 
moisten these gradually with two tablespoonfuls of good 
salad-oil, and when well pounded put the contents in a 
eante-pan. 



S8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it in the saute-pan with the mixture on the fire, to which 
add two ounces of fresh butter ; toss the contents up till 
the sauce is properly melted and well mixed with the paste, 
then serve with some grated parmesan cheese apart. 



97. RAVIOLI A L'lTALIENNE. 

Kavioli is considered by the natives to be one of the 
best Italian-made dishes in existence ; and to give a fair 
idea of its repute as well as its national character, I can 
only compare it to the English Christmas plum-pudding. 
Its preparation, however, is not so expensive, neither can 
the making of it be considered difficult or complicated. 
Make a paste similar to the one for tagliatelli (No. 95), 
but add half a gill more of lukewarm water to it ; when 
the paste has been properly worked and rolled in four 
parts, nearly as thin as a sheet of paper, with the rolling- 
pin, place them apart on the board. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, and with a feather or soft brush moisten one 
sheet of paste with it, then lay on this (two inches apart) 
a teaspoonful of chicken force-meat (No. 271). When the 
sheet is covered in the manner directed with the forcemeat, 
lay over it one of the sheets of paste and press this down 
with the thumb over the outer row of balls, then cut these 
out with a small fluted cutter into half-moon shape, and 
place them on a large dish, slightly sprinkled with flour. 
Proceed with the other two sheets of paste in the same way ; 
after which, let them dry on the dish for a couple of hours, 
then drop the lot gently in three quarts of boiling salt 
water, boil them on a brisk fire for ten minutes, then strain 
off the water and put the ravioli in a stewpan, in which a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter has already been melted 
to a golden colour; add to it a pint of good broth, and let 
it boil for Ave or six minutes ; after which, add two ounces 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 59 

of grated cheese, toes the stewpan gently in order to mix 
the cheese well with the ravioli, without, however, breaking 
them. When properly mixed and the broth nicely reduced, 
pour them into a dish ; sprinkle a little more grated cheese 
and three spoonfuls of good hot beef gravy over, and serve. 

In the same manner, ravioli can be made with veal or 
game forcemeat, as well as with fish ; in the latter case, a 
pur^ of spinach, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and an 
ounce of grated cheese must be added and well mixed with 
the fish. 

Tomato sauce added at the same time as the broth will 
also be an improvement. 

98. RAVIOLI A LA ROHAINE. 

Prepare five or six dozen ravioli in the same manner as 
in the previbus number. Boil them in broth for fifteen 
minutes, then strain and put them in a stewpan containing 
about a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms, properly 
trimmed and cut into slices, with a similar quantity of 
cooked ox- tongue cut in small dice, half a pint of white 
wine, a gill each of Espagnole sauce and game essence. 
Boil on a brisk fire ; toss the stewpan, so as to mix and 
wai*m the contents well together; and when the sauce is 
nearly reduced, add two ounces of gmted cheese, toss the 
whole well over the fire, and serve. 

99. GNOCHETTI WITH BUTTER. 

Put a pint of water into a stewpan on the fire with two 
ounces of butter, a teajspoonful of salt, and a pinch of 
pepper. When the contents boil draw the stewpan away 
from the fire, add gradually to it half a pound of semolina 
or ordinary sifted flour; stir the while with a wooden 
spoon till it has reached the consistency of a solid paste, 



6o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

then add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, together 
with three ounces of grated cheese ; mix these well with 
the paste by tossing it with the wooden spoon, then whisk 
the whites of the four eggs, already used, to a nice snowy 
froth, and mix it well with the paste ; turn this out of the 
stcwpan, flatten it on a slab, cut it in small equal dice, and 
roll these into the shape of small filberts. Meanwhile 
boil one quart of broth, drop the balls of gnochetti in 
it, and let them simmer for twenty minutes, then drain 
and dry them. Butter the inside of an entree dish, divide 
two ounces of butter into small balls ; put a layer of 
gnochetti and sprinkle a little grated cheese, a few pieces of 
butter, and two tablespoonf uls of good beef gravy over it ; 
continue the layers of gnochetti, butter, grated cheese, and 
beef gravy to the end, finishing with grated cheese on the 
top; then put the dish in the oven for five minutes, and 
serve. 

100. POLENTA'' A LA PIEDMONTAISE. 

Boil in a saucepan three pints of broth or water, to 
which a dessert-spoonful of salt must be added. When 
the broth boils take a strong wooden spoon in your 
right hand, or better still, the half of a broomstick made 
for that purpose, which must be about eighteen inches 
long, and with your left hand drop gi^adually one pound of 
polenta flour into the saucepan on the fire ; stir the while, 
to prevent the flour clotting ; let it boil for half an hour, 
stirring the paste almost constantly to prevent burning ; 
after which, sprinkle three ounces of grated cheese over it ; 
stir the contents well^ so as to mix the cheese with the 
polenta, which will now be firm and detach itself from the 
border of the pan ; pour the lot into a dish, melt a quarter 

* A flour made from Indian-corn, grown on a large scale and much 
iiacd in Italj. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



6i 



of a pound of butter in a frying-pan to a frotbj heat^ 
pour it over the polenta, and serve. 

101. POLENTA A LA NAPOLITAINE* 

Prepare a "polenta" as in the previous number; when 
nearly cooked add two ounces of fresh butter and stir well, 
in order to mix the polenta with the butter. Meanwhile 
set a well- buttered saut^-pan on the fire, with half a dozen 
slices of fat bacon ; put on these a dozen small birds (such 
as larks, &c)., properly cleaned, and a couple of bay- 
leaves. Fry the birds to a nice colour, then moisten with 
half a pint of good broth and a glass of white wine ; season 
with salt and pepper to taste ; cover the saut6-pan, and 
simmer very gently until the birds are well cooked, basting 
them and turning as often as required. 

When the polenta is done and the birds ready, dress the 
former on a dish spread with grated parmesan cheese, place 
the birds on the top, strain the gravy over, and serve. 

Note, — A few .thin slices of truffles or fresh mush- 
rooms, cooked either in gravy or butter, will improve the 
"polenta." 

 

Remarks on Rice. 

Rice, like paste, can be eaten with as much advantage 
in soups as in made dishes, and in either case will always 
be found nourishing, appetising, and refreshing. Its cook- 
ing differs but slightly from paste, as rice can be boiled in 
the soup with which it is intended to be served. It can 
also be prepared in more than a hundred different ways, 
and eaten by all classes, from its simplest and cheapest 
mode of preparation to the most expensive and luxurious 
made dishes. Rice is good in almost every soup, can be 
eaten with any meat, fish, or poultry, is made into various 



>«i 



V' 



«,' 







62 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



puddings, and sensed as a sweet with any kind of stewed 
fruit. The best rice to use is the Italian, the grain of 
which is short and plump. It can be distinguished from 
others by a slight grey tinge, and, although dearer than 
the Indian and Egyptian, is, nevertheless, cheaper than 
either, on account of its swelling propensity and nourishing 
properties, which are not possessed by others to the same 
extent. Never attempt to make a "risotto" with a long 
white-grained rice, as you will fail. 





102. PLAIN RICE AND BROTH. 

Pour three pints of good broth into a stewpan, and set it 
to the boil. Meantime wash in a basin, with two or three 
different cold waters, a pint of rice; when the broth is 
on the boil throw the rice in, boil for about twenty 
minutes, season with salt and a little pepper, pour into 
a soup-tureen, and serve with grated cheese on a plate 
apart. 

Note, — Rice can also be cooked in plain water, drained, 
and served with boiling broth, in which case it keeps 
clearer. 

103. RICE AND CABBAOE SOUP. 

Blanch in salt water for a few minutes the heart of a 
cabbage cut in eight parts; strain the water through a 
colander; press the cabbage, and put it back into the 
stewpan with three pints of cold broth, a small knuckle 
or ham -bone, and a quarter of a pound of rice, properly 
washed, as in No. 102 ; boil for twenty-five minutes, season 
to taste, take the bone or knuckle out, and pour the soup 
into a soup-tureen. 

This soup can be made " maigre " by using water instead 
of broth; in which case add two ounces of butter a few 
minutes before serving. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 6^ 

. 104. RICE AND POTATO SOUP. 

Proceed with the potatoes as for cabbage, described in 
the previous number, but omit the knuckle or hjtm-bone. 

105. RICE AND VEGETABLE SOUP. 

All kinds of vegetables are good for this soup, but must 
first be blanched in boiling salt water for a few minutes 
and properly dried ; then fry them in a stewpan with 
butter ; soak them afterwards with good gravy in another 
stewpan, and boil till cooked. Meantime boil three pints 
of broth; throw half a pint of rice into it, and after 
twenty minutes of ebullition mix with the vegetables and 
gravy, season with salt and pepper, stir, pour into a soup< 
tureen, and serve with a little grated cheese on a plate 
apart. 

Macaroni or any other paste can be added to either of 
the above soups, provided it has been previously cooked 
apart. 

106. MINESTRONE. 

The minestrone is a real Italian national soup. It is 
composed of a mixture of vegetables and rice, is very much 
appreciated and considered as a delicacy by the natives. 

Vegetables used for this soup should be fresh and tender, 
and the following are generally the most in request. Take 
the heart of a small cabbage, one carrot, four potatoes, 
three leeks, and half a head of celery; shred very fine; 
blanch these separately; strain and fry them in two 
ounces of butter with half a pint of kidney beans, half a 
pint of green peas, and a dozen French beans cut in small 
diamonds ; then take one ounce of fat bacon, mash with a 
knife-blade the clove of a garlic, and mix it with the bacon, 



64 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

which must be minced as fine as a paste; put it into a 
stewpan with three pints of broth, boil it with all the 
vegetables, add one pint of well- washed rice, a slice of 
bacon-rind cut in small dice, and two mashed fresh 
tomatoes. Boil for twenty-five minutes, season with salt 
and pepper, stir well, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and 
serve with two ounces of grated cheese on a plate apart. 

107. RISOTTO* A LA PifeMONTAISE. 

Put three pints of good broth into a stewpan; when 
boiling throw in three-quarters of a pound of nice clean 
rice; cook for twenty minutes on a good fire, giving it 
an occasional stir ; then add two ounces of grated cheese, 
the same quantity of fresh butter and truffles cut in very 
thin slices, a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 
mix well together, add a little gravy if too thick, and serve 
on a hot dish. 

108. RISOTTO MILANAISE. 

Slice an onion and fry it in a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter and a little beef marrow till of a nice brown colour ; 
dilute with a quart of broth ; boil it, strain the broth through 
a sieve into the stewpan again, and season with salt and 
pepper; boil it; then add one pint of rice and a small 
pinch of saffron ; cook on a good fire for twenty minutes, 
often stirring the contents with a wooden spoon to prevent 
burning ; sprinkle two handfuls of grated cheese over it, 
with a gill of white dry wine ; stir and mix well together ; 
boil for another two or three minutes, then draw from the 
fire, and just before serving add one ounce of fresh butter, 
divided in five or six parts and • put about in the stewpan ; 
cover with the lid for two or three minutes, then pour it 

* liiKotto is the Italian nnnie for nil matle rice-dishes. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 65 

into a hot dish with a little more grated cheese sprinkled 
on the top, and serve. 

109. RISOTTO (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Proceed as above, but omit the saffron ; add four t^able- 
spoonfuls of tomato sauce at the same time as the cheese, 
and serve after having given it a good stirring. 

110. ANOTHER RISOTTO (ITALIAN STYLE). 

Shred fine the red part of a carrot and an onion, cut in 
small dice a rasher of bacon, fry these in a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter till of a nice brown colour ; then add 
the giblets and combs of two fowls chopped fine, fry for a j 

few minutes longer, then moisten with one quart of broth, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, and add a small pinch 
of saffron ; boil it on a good fire ; when boiling pour in 
one pint of clean rice ; stir and boil fast till nearly cooked, 
then add four tablespoon fuls of tomato sauce and six of 
grated cheese, stir the contents well together, add half a 
dozen mushrooms and one trufile cut in thin slices, stir 
again to prevent burning, cook for two minutes longer, 
pour it into a hot dish with a little more grated cheese 
sprinkled on the top and one ounce of butter divided in 
^ve or six pieces and placed at equal distances about the 
rice; then place the dish in a moderately heated oven 
for two minutes, and serve. 

HI. RISOTTO A LA CHARTREUSE. 

Prepare a broth of frogs or of crayfish, and proceed as 
in the first risotto (Italian style) ; when cooked, pour the 
rice into a hot dish with pieces of frog's meat, boned and 
cut in dice, or the crayfish-tails properly mixed with it, 
as well as a few slices of truffles. ^ 

E 



66 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

112. RISOTTO (SPANISH STYLE). 

Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter 
with an onion shred fine ; brown this nicely ; then add 
four tomatoes cut in small slices, previously peeled, together 
with half a pound of ham cut in small dice ; fry the lot for 
a few minutes ; then pour over one quart of good broth 
and one pint of rice; boil on a good fire and cover the 
stewpan for ten minutes ; after which, add half a pint of 
green peas and the same quantity of asparagus, cut in 
points and blanched in the usual way ; boil for fifteen 
minutes longer, giving it an occasional stir to prevent 
burning, and serve with grated cheese on a plate apart^ as 
well as some boiling broth in a soup-tureen, if wished for. 

118. RISOTTO A LA PORTUOAISE. 

Cook the rice apart in water, strain, and put it into a 
soup-tureen; pour over a quart of good boiling broth, 
mixed with three spoonfuls of tomato sauce and the breast 
of a cooked chicken cut in small dice; and serve with 
grated cheese on a plate apail^ 

114. RISOTTO A LA TURQUE. 

Put three ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan with a 
few slices of fat bacon cut in small dice and an onion split 
across ; fry till the onion has taken a brown, when it must 
be taken out, and a nice tender fowl cut in quarters put 
in its place ; season well with salt ; cover the stewpan and 
let it simmer for forty minutes, giving it an occasional 
stir ; then moisten it with three pints of broth, and when 
boiling add one pound of rice ; stir well, replace the lid, 
and boil slowly for half an hour ; after which, dress it on a 
hot dish, and serve with grated cheese on a plate apart* 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 67 

115. RISOTTO A LA PONIATOWSKY. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of bufcter a quarter of a 
pound of gammon cut in small slices ; then add one pint 
of rice and three pints of broth ; boil on a brisk fire for 
twenty- five minutes and stir often ; take the slices of bacon 
out, add two dozen oysters with two spoonfuls of their 
liquor to it, miz well together, melt'an ounce of butter in 
a frying-pan apart, pour the rice in a hot dish and the 
melted butter over it ; then serve with a quart of boiling 
broth in a soup-tureen apart, if desired. 

116. CB£AM RICE A LA R^ALR 

Put a fowl and half a knuckle of veal into a stewpan 
with a carrot ; add half an onion, the quarter of a celery- 
head, one leek, and two quarts of broth ; boil for an hour 
and a half, take the meat out, skim and strain the broth 
through a fine cloth; pour the half of it into a stewpan 
of medium size with half a pound of rice, washed in two 
or three different waters and blanched apart for a few 
minutes; let it boil for an hour, stir occasionally with a 
wooden spoon ; after which, pour in the remainder of the 
broth; mix well, and pass it through a wire sieve, then 
through a tammy and back into the stewpan on a good fire 
till nearly boiling. Meanwhile miz in a basin three spoon- 
fuls of chicken purde with the same quantity of rice cream ; 
add gradually to it half a pint more of the cream, stirring 
the while ; then pour it back to the stewpan with the other 
rice cream, stir and miz properly before serving with 
croQtons fried in butter. 

117. CREAM RICE A LA FRANpAISE. 

Proceed for this as in No. 11 6, but add to the vegetables 
before named a little parsley, which must be taken out 



68 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

when cooked ; and just before serving, add half a pint of 
good cream with an ounce of fresh butter; mix all well 
together, and when nearly boiling pour it into a soup- 
tureen in which a few small quenelles of chicken, properly 
poached, have already been put. Stir, and serve. 

118. RICE CREAM A LA CHASSEUR. 

Roast a partridge, cut the meat in small dice, and pound 
it in a mortar; put the bones and carcass in a quart of 
chicken broth, boil for ten minutes, skdm, and pass it 
through a fine cloth ; then put it back into the stewpan 
on the fire. When boiling, pour half a pound of rice into 
it and boil for an hour and a quarter ; after which, pass it 
through a fine wire sieve and tammy. Return the cream 
to the stewpan on the fire, then mix gradually the puree 
of partridge with it, boil it, give it an occasional stir, and 
serve with croutons fried in butter. 

119. RICE CREAM WITH PHEASANT. 

Pi-oceed for this as in the " Reale," and then add six 
quenelles of pheasant, well poached, and serve. 

120. RICE AU ORATIN. 

Pour three pints of good broth into a stewpan, and set 
it on the fire. When boiling, throw in one pound of clean 
rice, and let it boil for twenty minutes, giving it an occa- 
sional stir; then season with salt and pepper, add a few 
allspice, sprinkle two ounces of grated cheese and a gill of 
good gravy, mix the contents well together, and pour it 
into a pie-dish, the inside of which must be well buttered. 
Sprinkle the top with a few bread-crumbs, making a hole 
in the centre with a spoon, fill it with chicken stuffing or 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 69 

finand^re, place the pie-dish in a moderately heated oven 
till the top has taken a nice brown colour and become 
crisp, and then serve with a little grated cheese on a plate 
apart. 

121. RISOTTO A LA HlSNAOiiRE OR HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Boil in a saucepan three pints of broth, throw in one 
pound of rice, boil for twenty minutes, stir occasionally, 
then add one ounce and a half of grated cheese, the same 
quantity of butter, season in the usual way, pour a gill of 
hot gravy, mix the contents well together, add a few slices 
of truffies or fresh mushrooms stewed in butter, pour it 
into a hot dish ; and serve with a little grated cheese on a 
plate apart. 

122. RICE WITH MILK. 

Pour three pints of milk into a saucepan, let it boil, 
throw in one pound of rice, a small piece of sugar, and 
a bay- leaf; boil for twenty minutes, stir in the usual 
way to prevent burning, and just before serving mix the 
yoke of an egg and a little grated nutmeg with it. 

128. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH AND RICE. 

This soup is as much recommended for its delicacy as 
for its excellence, and can be obtained in different ways ; 
but after long study, the following is, I believe, the best 
and easiest mode of all for its preparation : — 

Wash in several waters thirty-five or forty live cray- 
fish of medium size, put them in a saucepan with a handful 
of salt, a pinch of pepper, a bottle of dry white wine, 
a " bouquet garni," an onion, carrot, and half a head of 
celery all shred fine; moisten the lot with cold water, 



70 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cover the saucepan and boil on a good fire for about 
twenty minutes, then strain the broth into a stewpan, let it 
boil, and pour a quarter of a pound of clean rice into it, 
which must boil for about an hour. Meantime take the 
tails of the crayfish out of their shells with your fingers, 
put them apart on a plate, pound the shells and inside 
residue in a mortar with two ounces of butter, put the 
pur6e in a stewpan with three pints of good broth, salt 
and pepper to taste, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. 
After which, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return 
it to the stewpan, and set by the side of the fire to let 
the scum rise, when it must be skimmed off. When the 
rice is properly cooked, strain, and pour it into a mortar 
with the half of the crayfish -tails, pound the lot nicely, 
and add it to thicken the broth with the remainder of the 
crayfish ; boil it ; stir and mix well ; boil for about ten 
minutes; then pour it into a soup-tureen with a few 
quenelles of chicken or croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 
This soup can also be made with crawfish or lobster, 
but in neither will the delicacy and flavour of the above 
be found. 

124. RICE AND CHESNUTS. 

Peel and boil one pound of chesnuts as in No. 51. 
Meantime boil one pound of rice in three pints of broth. 
When the chesnuts are cooked, strain and mix them well 
with the rice, salt and pepper to taste, add two ounces of 
grated cheese and one ounce of butter divided into four or 
five pieces, and spread on the rice, cover the stewpan for a 
few minutes, then sprinkle with a little grated nutmeg, 
pour it into a hot dish, and serve. 

This dish can be altered by cooking the rice with milk 
instead of broth, and by adding half a pint of cream at the 
same time as the chesnuts. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 71 

125. RISOTTO (GENOA STYLE). 

Put a gill of fine olive-oil into a stewpan with a carrot, 
an onion, a little celery, and one clove of garlic, all minced 
very fine. Fry the lot till nicely browned, then add one 
pound of rice, previously blanched in salt water for a few 
minutes, and strained ; fry and stir for five minutes longer, 
pour three pints of good broth over it, season with salt and 
pepper to taste, boil for ten minutes on a brisk fire, stir 
often to prevent burning, then add four tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce, or better still, three fresh tomatoes peeled 
and cut in small slices ; stir well, and boil for five minutes 
longer ; after which, sprinkle over it two ounces of grated 
cheese and two tablespoonfuls of anchovy butter ; stir well, 
cover the stewpan ; draw it away from the fire, and after 
two or three minutes pour it into a hot dish and serve. 

I might go on with more recipes, but, after due con- 
sideration, I think the number already given will meet 
the general requirements. On the other hand, it is advis- 
able to give cooks and amateurs in gastronomy oppor- 
tunities of showing their ability and power of imagination 
in eooking fancy dishes of their own invention. 

126. PEARL BARLEY SOUP. 

Put in a saut^-pan one fowl and two pounds of leg of 
veal, together with two quarts and a half of broth and the 
usual sorts and quantity of vegetables as for a soup ; let it 
boil for forty minutes ; take the fowl and veal out, skim, 
and pass the broth through a fine cloth, return it to the 
sant^pan with a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, stir 
ooeasioiially with a wooden spoon to prevent the barley 
sticking together ; boil on a slow fire for five hours, then 
skim off the scum that rises to the surface ; after which, 



72 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

add a piece of sugar; and just before serving, dilute in a 
basin three tablespoon fuls of chicken pure^ with a pint of 
broth hy stirring ; pour this afterwards in the saut^-pan, 
mix it well with the barley, and serve, properly seasoned. 



127. OYSTER SOUP. 

Blanch two dozen oysters in their own liquor, to which 
add a glass of Marsala. When firm take them away from 
the foam with a small flat skimmer and place them on a 
cloth ; draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the 
liquor deposit and clarify itself. Meanwhile boil three 
pints of fish broth, to which add as soon as ready the 
clarified liquor above mentioned, and when boiling draw to 
the side of the fire and skim. Whisk the yolks of three 
eggs with two tablespoonfuls of B^hamel sauce, a little 
grated nutmeg, and one ounce of fresh butter; mix Veil 
with the broth in the usual way, pour it into the soup- 
tureen with the oysters, and serve. 

128. BEER AND WINE SOUP. 

Fry in butter a few small slices of the crumbs of bread, 
then pour a bottle each of pale ale and red wine with 
the peel of half a lemon; shred three cloves and a little 
cinnamon, and add them to the liquor. Boil for five 
minutes, and serve. 

129. STURGEON SOUP (ENGLISH STYLE). 

Cook in good gravy about two pounds of sturgeon ; let 
it get cold, and cut it in small dice. Meantime boil in a 
saucepan three pints of broth, into which pour a glass of 
sherry, Madeira, or port; add the usual seasoning, with 
a little cayenne and two teaspoonfuls of anchovy butter. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 73 

When boiling pour it into a soup-tureen in which the 
sturgeon has ah'eady been put, add a dozen small beef 
quenelles and as many glazed mushrooms, and server 



130. GOOSE GIBLET SOUP (ENGLSH STYLE). 

Blanch in the usual way the giblets of a goose ; strain 
the water through a colander ; cut them in dice and fry 
them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter; add a glass 
of sherry or Madeira, and let them simmer till nearly 
reduced ; then draw the stewpan by the side of the fire. 
Meantime boQ three pints of broth, add one carrot, the 
half a head of oeleiy, one leek, six pepper-corns, three 
cloves, and a "bouquet garni;" boil gently for an hour, 
then pass the broth through a sieve and back to the stew- 
pan, clarify it with a little raw minced meat, the whites of 
two eggSy properly whisked and mixed with half a glass 
of sherry. Put the giblets into a soup-tureen with a 
few small quenelles of chicken and three tablespoonfuls of 
Brunoise, pour the boiling broth, when properly clarified, 
over, and serva 

181. POACHED EGG SOUP A LA STYRIENNE. 

Boil in a stewpan three pints of good broth. When 
boiling sprinkle three ounces of good semolina flour, a 
small quantity at a time; keep stirring, to prevent the 
flour clotting; then poach six or eight new-laid eggs by 
breaking each separately, and plunge them into some 
boiling broth set apart for that purpose in a saut^-pan; 
boil for about two minutes, draw the pan away hx>m the 
fire, take the eggs out one by one with a flat strainer ; lay 
them carefully on a cloth, trim each nicely round with a 
knife, and place them in a soup-tureen with half a pound 
of green peas previously cooked in salt water and two 



74 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tablespoon fuls of parsley blanched and hashed fine ; then 
pass the broth in which the eggs were poached through a 
sieve, mix it with the one in which the semolina flour was 
diluted, stir well, pour slowly into the soup- tureen, and 
serve with a little grated cheese on a plate apart 



182. POACHED EGG SOUP. 

Poach six or eight eggs in boiling salt water as above, 
but add two spoonfuls of vinegar ; take them out and trim 
them in the same manner, put them very carefully in a 
soup-tureen, and pour gently three pints of good boiling 
broth, nicely clarified, over it, and serve. 

138. CALF'S TAIL SOUP (INDLIN STYLE). 

Cut at the joints two calves' tails, blanch the pieces in 
boiling salt water, and brown them in a saut^-pan with 
half a pint of good gravy ; after which, soak the lot with 
broth, let simmer till cooked, then strain the gravy, return 
it to the saut^-pan and put the pieces of tails in the soup- 
tureen, whisk the yolks of two eggs and dilute it with the 
gravy in which the pieces of tails were cooked, together 
with two teaspoon fuls of curry powder, set the saut^-pan 
on the fire, stir well, and when nearly boiling pour it over 
the calves' tails with a few chicken quenelles and a quart 
of good boiling broth, and serve. 

184. SOUP A LA POLONAISE 

Put in a stewpan the half of a roast fowl, six ounces of 
gammon cut in thin slices, two pounds of breast of veal, 
three pints of cold water, and two tablespoon fuls of salt. 
Boil and skim carefully; add the usual vegetables as in 
soup No. 2. When the meat is properly cooked take it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 75 

out, pass the broth through a fine cloth, return it to the 
stewpan, and when boiling throw in three ounces of gruel 
previously cooked in plain water, let it boil, stir well, 
and pour it into a soup-tureen, with the chicken-breast, 
a little of the veal, and part of the gammon, all cut in 
very small dice ; and serve. 



135. COCK A LEEKIE SOUP. 

Boil a chicken in two quaiis of water, with salt, pepper, 
and an onion stuck with two cloves, for forty minutes, 
taking care to skim off the scum at the proper time ; 
then strain the bix>th through a cloth into a stewpan ; add 
a quart of veal stock and boil. Meanwhile cut the white 
part of six leeks one inch and a half long, slice these 
in four, lengthways, blanch them in the usual way, drain 
the water, and pour the leeks into the broth to cook. 
Meanwhile cut up the chicken meat, free from bones, 
skin, and gristle, into small pieces. When the leeks are 
thoroughly cooked and soft add the pieces of chicken, 
and let them simmer for another ten minutes, then pour 
into a soup-tureen after having seasoned to taste; and 
serve. 

136. MUTTON BROTH. 

Take three pounds of the scrag end or neck of mutton, 
cut it into several pieces, wash them in cold water and put 
them into a stewpan with two quarts of cold spring water ; 
set the stewpan to boil, and skim the broth well ; then add 
two turnips cut in slices, a few sprigs each of parsley and 
green thyme, and a little salt After an hour and a half 
of gentle ebullition, skim off the fat from the surface and 
strain through a fine sieve into a basin, and keep in a cool 
place ready for use. 



CHAPTER II. 
SOUPS FOR CONVALESCENTS AND CHILDREN. 

137. PLAIN CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut a chicken or young fowl into four parts, wash these 
well in cold water, and put the pieces in a stewpan with 
three pints of cold water and a teaspoonf ul of salt ; boil 
it, skim it well, then add the heart of a lettuce and a 
handful of chervil, let it simmer for about an . hour, and 
strain it through a £ne cloth into a basin. 

188. SIMPLE PAP. 

Cut in slices some crumb of bread, put them in a stew- 
pan with enough chicken or veal broth to soak, boil it, pass 
through a sieve by rubbing, and put it back into the 
stewpan ; boil it again, add a few pieces of butter each as 
big as a pea, and serva 

189. PAP A LA REINE. 

Soak in half a pint of hot broth some slices of the crumb 

of bread, pound in a mortar the meat of half a chicken, 

previously cooked in white broth and boned, mix this with 

the bread and pass it through a sieve, put it back into the 

stewpan, boil it with the quantity of white broth requii^ed, 

and serve. 

76 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 77 

140. BREAD RASPINGS SOUP. 

Pound in a mortar one pound of crust of bread, or grate 
a one-pound loaf ; boil one pint of broth ; pour in the 
bread -raspings, a small quantity at a time ; stir well to 
prevent clotting, and after ten minutes* ebullition draw the 
stewpan away from the fire, add a few pieces of butter, 
pass all through a sieve, and serve. 

141. VELVETY SOUP. 

Dilute one tablespoonful of flour with two of milk, boil 
a cup of broth, and when it boils pour gradually the 
diluted flour over it, stir continually, boil for a few minutes, 
and serve with a few croutons fried in butter. 

142. SAGO SOUP. 

Wash in boiling water, strain and boil in broth, the 
quantity of sago required, and when it has thickened 
like a hot jelly it is cooked ; draw it from the fire, add a 
little butter, and serve. 

Sago can also bo cooked with milk, in which case add a 
piece of sugar. 

148. TAPIOCA SOUP. 

Boil a tablespoonful of tapioca to each cup of broth for 
ten minutes, then add a little butter, and serva The same 
can also be done with milk, and instead of butter add 
sugar. 

144. POTATO FLOUR SOUP. 

Dilute a tablespoonful of fecula or potato flour with two 
or three of cold broth, then pour it into a stewpan with a 



78 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pint of boiling broth, stir this well, and after a few minutes 
of ebullition serve. 



146. SEMOLINA SOUP. 

Boil a pint of good broth ; when boiling pour gradually 
two tablespoonfuls of semolina into it, stirring it mean- 
while, and let it boil for half an hour ; add a little butter, 
and if too thick some boiling broth, stir again, and serve. 



146. RICE FLOUR SOUP. 

Fry in a btewpan with an ounce of butter two table- 
spoonfuls of rice flour for ten minutes, then add gradually 
a pint of milk to it, stir the while to prevent clotting, boil 
it, and serve. 



147. PASTE SOUP WITH BROTH OR MILK. 

Put in boiling broth or milk two ounces for each person 
of vermicelli, stars, or any other small paste, boil for five 
or six minutes, add a little butter, and serve. 



148. BEEF TEA. 

Take two pounds of the lean part of the round or beef- 
steak, remove carefully all fat skin and sinew from it, then 
cut it in small square pieces of about an inch, put these 
pieces of beef into a stewpan with three pints of cold water 
and a dessert-spoonful of salt, set the stewpan on the fire, 
and when the contents reaches ebullition skim it in the 
usual way ; then remove the stewpan by the side of the fire, 
let it simmer for about an hour ; after which, strain th^ 
broth or beef tea through a fine cloth, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 79 



14G. SNAIL BROTH FOR OBSTINATE COUGHS. 

Take three dozen garden snails, wash them in three or 
four different waters, then add to them the hind-quarters 
of two dozen stream frogs, previously skinned ; bruise them 
together in a mortar ; after which, put these into a stewpan 
with two turnips finely chopped, a tablespoonful of salt, a 
pinch of saffron, and three pints of cold water; set the 
stewpan on the fire, stir the lot with a wooden spoon until 
the broth begins to boil, then skim it most carefully, and 
set it by the side of the fire to simmer for half an hour ; 
after which, the broth must be strained by pressing it 
through a tammy-cloth into a basin for use. 

This broth, from its soothing qualities, often counteracts 
successfully the straining effects of a severe and obstinate 
cough, and alleviates (more than any other culinary pre- 
paration) the sufferings of consumptive persons. 



160. SIMPLE JELLT. 

Take an old fowl, with one pound of lean beef and two 
pounds of leg of veal ; cut each in small pieces, put them 
into a stewpan with three pints of cold water, and salt to 
taste. Boil them ; skim most carefully, add two carrots 
and two turnips shred finely; cover the stewpan and 
boil for three hours ; then pass the broth through a sieve ; 
press and squeeze well the pieces of meat; let the broth 
get cold ; add to it afterwards the white of an egg^ 
properly whisked, with a gill of broth ; set it to the boil 
again ; stir till it comes to a nice thickness without letting 
it boil ; then pass through a cloth into an earthenware jar 
or pan, and remove it to a cool place, when it will become 
a jelly, and is ready for use. 



CHAPTER III. 

REMARKS ON SAUCES, ESSENCES, MELTED 
BUTTER, AND JELLIES, 

Whatever the cookery may be, it is absolutely neces- 
sary, even amongst private families, to have certain sauces 
always at hand, the object of which is to perfect and 
strengthen, as well as to improve and colour, the different 
made dishes. Cooking, as I have said before, is an art ; 
therefore it can be compared (if I am not too bold) to 
painting, inasmuch that, however talented an artist may 
be, he can never paint a picture unless he has the proper 
colours at his command ; but once possessed of the right 
combinations, he can extend or reduce and alter his tints 
according to his taste and ideas. The cook must likewise 
have the necessary ingredients in order to enable him to 
produce made dishes both tasty and pleasing to the eye, 
the latter being always a desirable end in cookery; and 
although the same sauces may often be in request, it does 
not follow that the flavour will be uniform, as the artist 
cook, like the artist painter, will be be able to exercise his 
knowledge and talent by manipulating his sauces, and 
give them the hue required as well as the flavour expect^. 

The four principal sauces, which after broth must be 
considered the foundation of all good and high-class cook- 
ing, are the Espagnole (brown), Velout^ (fawn, velvety), 
Bechamel (white), and Allemande (yellow). 

In order to obtain good sauces it is of the utmost 

importance that the butter should be good and fresh ; 

eo 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 8i 

that the seasoning should be put in proper quantities; 
that the liaison (which here means a binding or thickening) 
be made with the yolks of fresh eggs, well whisked and 
properly strained ; and that the simmering, as well as the 
skimming, should have the most careful attention of the 
cook. Let this be well understood, that in no part of the 
culinary process is attention and care so much required as 
in the preparation of sauces, as no remedy will successfully 
remove the mischief caused by a failure. 

Note, — ^AU the sauces made of different compounds, 
especially those of butter, should be kept hot in bain-maries, 
and these even then not more than twenty minutes ; other- 
wise, on account of their delicacy, they will either turn, 
get decomposed, 6r become oily. To remedy this, and 
bring the butter sauces to their original smoothness, a 
piece of dean ice as big as a nut should be added to the 
sauce in summer, or a little cold water in winter, and this 
should be worked briskly with a spoon by the side of the 
fire, before serving. 



15t ESPA6N0LE SAUCE. 

To make this sauce it is essential that the broth should 
be good. 

Prepare a broth as No. 4, then melt in a stewpan two 
ounces of butter, pour the same quantity of semolina flour, 
stir well with a wooden spoon till it boils, then draw the 
stewpan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer for half 
an hour, often stirring. After this, add gradually some of 
the hot broth to it, then pour the lot into it, and set it to 
the boil, stirring the while, when boiling. Let the fat rise 
to the top ; skim it properly ; then pass the sauce through 
a tammy sieve; return it to the stewpan; boil it again, 
and reduce it till it has reached a nice thick, but soft, 

F 



82 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

consistency, stirring the while to prevent clotting; then 
pour it into an earthenware pan ; lay a piece of kitchen 
paper at the top, to remove any remaining particle of fat, 
and place it in a cool place, as it is now ready for use, 
and will keep several days. 



152. ESPAONOLE SAUCE No. 2. 

Butter a stewpan, with an ounce of butter put in it, a 
shred onion, and about three pounds of leg of veal cut 
in small slices skinned and the fat removed, also a pound 
of beef cut in slices, as well as any carcasses of chicken 
and game that may be had ; moisten the lot with half a 
pint of broth or stock No. i. Boil on a good fire till the 
broth is reduced by one-half, turn the meat round so as to 
glaze it of an even brown colour ; when the meat is nicely 
glazed, draw the stewpan by the side of the fii'e, cover it, 
and let it stand for a few minutes. After this, pour in 
three quarts of stock No. i, boil it, skim it in the usual 
way, and add a " bouquet garni," one carrot shred finely, 
salt and pepper to taste, then let it simmer till the meat 
is well done, when it must be taken out and the broth 
strained through a fine cloth; return the broth to the 
stewpan, and set it by the side of the fire. Meantime 
put three ounces of butter in a small stewpan, and when 
properly melted pour a similar quantity of semolina flour 
with it. Stir it well over the fire with a wooden spoon, 
and simmer it for a quarter of an hour, giving it an 
occasional stir. Dilute this with some of the broth, and 
when properly mixed pour the remainder of the broth 
ever it ; boil it, stir it constantly till boiling, then draw 
the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for 
two hours; skim off the fat and scum as it rises, then 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 83 

strain the sauce through a fine cloth into an earthenware 
pan, and pai by in a cool place for futnre use. 

These sauces will, in ordinary weather, keep perfectly 
well and good for four or five days. 



168. VELOUT^ SAUCE. 

Put about two pounds of lean veal, free from skin and 
fat, into a buttered stewpan, also three slices of ham, half 
a pint of white stock, two carrots and one onion shred. 
Simmer the contents very gently, taking care not to colour 
the meat, and after half an hour moisten with three 
quarts of veal broth ; boil it, skim it, and then draw the 
stewpan to the side of the fire; add a few shalots, a 
** bouquet garni," and the cuttings of half a dozen white 
mushrooms ; simmer till the veal is well done ; take it out 
and strain the broth through a fine cloth ; put the broth 
back to the stewpan by the side of the fira Meantime 
prepare a mixture of three ounces of butter with the 
same quantity of semolina fiour in a stewpan, as in the 
Espagnole sauce, but do not brown the flour; dilute this 
with the white stock or veal broth in the same way as in 
No. 152, and mix it with the remainder of the stock in the 
stewpan ; stir constantly till it has reached ebullition, let 
it simmer for two hours, skim off the fat and scum as it 
rises, give it an occasional stirring, and strain through a 
tammy sieve into an earthenware pan, and put by in a 
cool place. 

154. BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan six ounces of butter, the same quantity 
of lean ham cut in thin slices, one pound of lean veal, 
one carrot, one shalot, a little celery, all shred in the usual 
style ; also a bay-leaf, two cloves, a small *^ bouquet '' of 



84 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

thyme and pepper-corn. Set the stewpan on a moderate 
fire, let it simmer without browning the meat, and when 
almost dry sprinkle over three ounces of semolina flour, 
moisten with three pints of chicken broth and one quart 
of cream, stir and mix well together; boil it, draw the 
stewpan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently; stir 
occasionally, and skim in the usual way; if too thick 
add a little more broth or cream, and after two hours of 
simmering strain through a tammy sieve into an earthen- 
ware pan, as with the other sauces. 



155. ANOTHER MODE OF PREPARING BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Pour into a stewpan one quart each of Yelout^ sauce 
and fresh cream, a small '* bouquet garni," and three thin 
slices of lean ham ; boil these, and stir constantly till the 
sauce is almost reduced by half, then pass it through a 
sieve as before^ 



156. ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one poimd 
of mushroom trimmings ; when well reduced, moisten this 
with three pints of Yelout^ sauce and one pint of chicken 
broth ; boil till reduced by one-third ; then add the yolks 
of six eggs well whisked, stir this for a few seconds, to mix 
properly with the sauce, boil it again, and pass it through 
a tammy sieve into a basin. 



157. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Dilute two tablespoonfiils of semolina flour in a stewpan 
with three ounces of melted butter; add a gill of cold 
water, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 85 

lemon ; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; then draw 
the stewpan by the side, add six ounces of butter, mix it 
well, pour it into a bain-marie, and keep it hot for use. 

Note. — It is absolutely necessary to have good fresh 
butter to make this sauce, and it is also advisable to make 
it only when wanted, as, from its particular delicacy, it is 
liable to get decomposed if left a certain time exposed to 
beat. 

158. WHITE SAUCE. 

Fry two ounces of bacon with four of beef fat in a 
stewpan, together with the half of a carrot and a shred 
onion, a small " bouquet garni,'' the juice of half a lemon, 
a few cloves, and a pinch of pepper j sprinkle a spoonful 
of flour over it, stir it well, then pour three pints of boiling 
water over it; salt it to taste, and boil for twenty-five 
minutes ; skim, stir, and pass it through a tammy sieve. 



159. HAfTRE D*HdTEL SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan three ounces of fresh butter, a spoonful 
of minced parsley, previously blanched and dried, a little 
grated nutmeg, white pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; 
stir the contents well together near the fire, and when the 
butter becomes of the consistency of thick cream and is 
near ebullition it is ready to be served. 

160. CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

Put a pound of fresh butter into a stewpan, simmer 
gently until it is perfectly clear and of a nice golden 
colour, or till it has finished fizzing, then pass it through 
a tammy cloth into a basin, let it get cold, then cover and 
place it in a cool place, ready to be used when wanted. 



86 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



16L ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Wash and bone six anchovies, pound them in a mortar 
with three ounces of butter, and rub them through a 
sieve with a wooden spoon. 



162. RAVIGOTE BUTTER. 

Take in equal proportions some pareley, chervil, spring 
onions, shalots, tarragon, and watercress, blanch the lot for 
two or three minutes in boiling water, drain and press out 
the water by twisting it in a cloth, then shred and pound 
the mixture in a mortar, with two properly washed and 
boned anchovies and three ounces of butter, boU it in a 
little stewpan, stir and mix well, and then pass it through 
a fine sieve, and store away for future usa 



168. MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Blanch, drain, and pound in a mortar the same kinds of 
herbs as in No. 162, together with six washed and boned 
anchovies, a small clove of garlic, and the yolks of three 
eggs boiled hard, half a pound of butter, two tablespoonfuU 
of olive -oil, one of tarragon vinegar, and salt and pepper 
to taste. When the whole is properly pounded pass it 
through a fine sieva This will be found tasty. 



IM. BEURRE NOIR, OR BROWN BUTTER. 

Put in a small saucepan a gill of vinegar with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of that quantity of white pepper, 
and a bay-leaf ; boil it ; meanwhile put into a frying-pan 
six ounces of butter to boil till it begins to acquire a dark- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 87 

brown colour, then add a few leaves of parsley, washed and 
dried, boil again for a few seconds, then draw it away from 
the fire altogether ; ^ve minutes after, pass it through a 
pointed strainer into the saucepan containing the vinegar, 
which must have been reduced a little in boiling, and pour 
into a glazed basin for future use. When wanted, this has 
only to be warmed up, without boiling. 



165. HORSE-RADISH BUTTER. 

Scrape a large horse-radish, or two small ones, pound 
it in the mortar with a similar quantity of butter, and 
rub it through a sieve. 



166. TRUFFLE BUTTER. 

Cut and pound in a mortar four or five small truffles 
together with the half of an anchovy and three ounces of 
butter ; when the lot is properly pounded and well mixed, 
rub it through a fine sieve and put it by for future use. 



167. PERI6UEUX BUTTER. 

Cut in thin slices four or five truffles, put these in a 
small saut^-pan, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira 
and two pepper-ooms ; boil for a few minutes ; let it get 
cold, then pound it in a mortar with three ounces of 
butter, and rub through a sieve. 



168. CURRY OR CAYENNE BUTTER. 

Mix on a plate one teaspoonful of curry powder, or as 
much cayenne pepper as a small pea, with three ounces of 
butter, and use it without passing it through a sieve. 



88 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

169. CRATHSH AND LOBSTER BUTTER. 

Cook and shell about thirty crayfish, as indicated in 
No. 123; pound the shells and claws in a mortar with 
half a pound of butter ; put this pur^e in a stewpan on a 
moderate fire, stir occasionally till the butter acquires a 
nice red colour ; then moisten it with a small cup of 
boiling water, stir again on the fire, and as soon as it 
reaches ebullition rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, 
let it get cold, and when firm take it out of the basin in 
one piece, cut off the sediment which will have settled at 
the bottom, and replace the good part in the basin, to be 
cut and melted when wanted. 

Note, — This butter should not be kept too long. For 
lobster butter, proceed in the same way. 



170. ESSENCE OF TRUFFLES. 

Chop fine about a quarter of a pound of truffles, or if 
you have any trimmings use them instead, place them in 
a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
and a bruised clove of garlic ; moisten the lot with a gill of 
French white wine, let simmer till the liquor is nearly all 
reduced, then add half a pint of good broth, set to the 
boil, and simmer for ten minutes longer ; after which, pass 
it through a fine cloth, by twisting it, into a basin, and 
put by for use, when it will be found extremely useful 
for flavouring sauces and stews, in which the flavour of 
truffles should predominate. 

17L ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Peel clean and chop finely half a pound of fresh mush- 
rooms, fry them in a stewpan. with an ounce of butter and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 89 

a little lemon juice for two or three minutes, then moisten 
with half a pint of white stock, let it simmer for ten 
minutes, and rub it through a sieve into a basin for use. 



172. ESSENCE OF GAME. 

Chop up the carcasses of winged game left from the 
previous da/s dinner, place them in a stewpan with four 
fihalots, a bay- leaf , a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, two 
pinches of pepper, and two ounces of butter. Fry the lot 
to a light- brown colour, then moisten them with a gill of 
Flinch white wine, and let them simmer and stir till 
reduced to a glaze; then add half a pint of good broth, 
simmer again for half an hour, skim and strain it through 
A tammy sieve, and finish it by adding the juice of half a 
lemon. 

178. ESSENCE OF CHICKEN. 

Chop up the carcasses of two or three fowls ; put them 
in a saucepan with about one pound of fillet of veal cut 
in four; moisten this with three pints of chicken broth, 
add an onion with two cloves stuck in, the half of a carrot, 
and a "bouquet garni ;'* simmer for an hour, strain the 
essence through a fine cloth, by twisting it, into a basin, 
remove carefully all fat, and put by in a cool place for use. 



174. ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES. 

Wash, bone, and clean six anchovies ; pound them in a 
mortar with a tablespoonf ul of capers and one shalot ; put 
these afterwards into a small stewpan with salt, pepper, a 
little mace, and two tablespoonf uls of mushroom ketchup ; 
simmer for five minutes; then moisten with half a pint 



90 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of broth ; boil it on a brisk fire till reduced by half, and 
rub it through a tammy into a basin. 

When wanted, warm it up in a bain-marie, and add a 
few drops of lemon juice before serving. 



175. ESSENCE OF FISH. 

Clean and cut in pieces a pound each of whiting, 
gurnard, and soles, or any other small fish ; put them in 
a stewpan with two onions stuck with two cloves, a carrot, 
a "bouquet garni,'' four shalots, a pint of French white 
wine ; salt and pepper to taste ; boil for five minutes, then 
add three pints of fish broth, boil again over a brisk fire 
till reduced to half its original quantity,, and strain it 
through a cloth into a basin and put it by for use. 

176. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 

Put a stewpan on the fire with two ounces of butter, 
mix with it the same quantity of semolina flour, half a 
pint of cold water, the juice of a lemon, and salt to taste ; 
boil on a moderate fire and stir well with a wooden spoon 
the while, to make it soft and without clots; as soon as 
it boils rub it through a fine sieve or tammy cloth, return 
it to the stewpan on the fire, add a little grated nutmeg, 
six ounces of butter, and a few drops of lemon- juice ; stir, 
and serve as soon as the butter is properly melted. 

This sauce can be improved by adding the yolks of two or 
three eggs well beaten, diluted with a little hot water passed 
through a sieve and mixed with the sauce before serving. 

177. BUTTER AND KETCHUP SAUCE. 

Mix well in a stewpan two or three tablespoonfuls of 
ketchup sauce with a teacupful of Velout^i sauce ; set it on 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 91 

the £1^ and boil for a few minutes ; stir occasionally with 
a wooden spoon, add an ounce of butter, stir again, and 
serve. 

Note, — This sauce can be made in the same way with any 
other essence. 

178. BLANQUETTE SAUCE. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan ; mix with it 
the same quantity of flour and work it into a paste with- 
out browning ; moisten with a pint of veal broth ; stir with 
a wooden spoou till it boils ; then draw by the side of the 
fire, add a bay-leaf and two small slices of ham, simmer it 
for an hour; skim and pass it through a sieve into a 
basin, to be used as wanted. 

170. POULETTE SAUCE. 

Stir an ounce of flour with the same quantity of butter 
in a stewpan on the fire for three minutes; then add a 
pint of white broth, and continue the stirring for fifteen 
minutes; after which, draw the stewpan away from the 
fire, thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, season 
with salt and pepper, add a dozen champignons, sliced in 
twos or threes, with a gill of the liquor they have been 
boiled in, stir the sauce over the fire till near the boil, add 
a small piece of butter, stir again to melt it, and serve. 

180. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Clean and blanch for a few minutes in a stewpan one 
pint of green gooseberries; strain off the water through 
a colander, rub them in the usual way through a sieve into 
the stewpan again, add two ounces of butter, boil, stir well, 
and serve. 



92 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

181. APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel and cut in slices five or six apples; put them in 
a stewpan with half a pint of water; when cooked and 
the water entirely consumed, ruh them through a sieve; 
return the pur6e to the stewpan on the fire, add about a 
gill of hot water, an ounce of sugar, and half an ounce 
of butter to it, stir well, and when the whole is properly 
melted, and mixed together, serve. 

182. EGG SAUCE. 

Mix in a stewpan on the fire a t^acupful of Yeloute 
sauce with three hard-boiled eggs cut in small dice ; add 
a little white pepper and salt to taste, also a little grated 
nutmeg, together with the juice of half a lemon and a 
dessert-spoonful of anchovy butter; mix the lot well to- 
gether by stirring over the fire before serving. 

183. BREAD SAUCE. 

Pour one pint of fresh cream into a stewpan on a 
moderate fire, and as soon as it begins to foam and swell 
draw the stewpan away ; then add three ounces of bread- 
cinimbs, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and an onion ; 
boil for five minutes, take the onion out, add an ounce of 
butter, stir well, and serve. 

Note, — ^The above is the proper manner to make a bread 
sauce, but a similar one can be made (although not so good) 
by substituting milk for cream. 

184. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE (DUTCH). 

Mix in a stewpan on a moderate fire the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of Velout^ sauce, a little 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 93 

grated nutmeg, and six ounces of fresh butter; stir this 
continually, and as the sauce thickens draw it gradually 
away from the fire to prevent boiling, without ceasing the 
stirring. When it has assumed a nice soft compact form, 
and swelling in the stewpan, pour in it two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, a little white pepper, and salt to taste ; stir well 
and pass it through a tammy sieve, and serve quickly, or 
into a bain-marie to keep hot till wanted. 



185. INDIAN SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of Allemande sauce in a stewpan 
with a very small pinch of saffron, three ounces of curr}^ 
butter, or simply one tablespoonful of curry powder and 
two ounces of fresh butter, set it on the fire, stir, and when 
properly mixed, and made hot, serve. 



186. OYSTER SAUCE. 

Blanch for five minutes two dozen oysters in a gill of 
white wine, strain the liquor into a small saucepan, mix 
with it one pint of Yeloutc sauce and a gill of fish broth 
if handy, or the same quantity of white stock ; boil, stir, 
and simmer for ten minutes, then add the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten, stir the contents well, pass it through a 
tammy sieve into the saucepan again on the fire, season 
with salt and pepper, squeeze the juice of half a lemon, 
stir gently, pour the oysters in, stir again, and serve. 

187. FINANClilRE SAUCE. 

Cut in small dice a slice of gammon of about two 
ounces, shred an onion, mince a few mushrooms and one 
truiHe, put the lot into a stewpan with two ounces of 



94 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

butter, add a small " bouquet garni '* with a few pepper- 
corns, fry for a few minutes, then pour in it half a 
pint of white claret or sherry, cover the stewpan and 
simmer till reduced to half the original quantity; pass 
the liquid through a fine- pointed strainer into the stew- 
pan, and set it on the Hve ; keep the gammon, mushrooms, 
and truffle apart, add and mix with the liqoiir a pint of 
Espagnole sauce, boil on a brisk fire for fifteen minutes, 
stir well, and pass it through a tammy sieve. Meanwhile 
put in a small saucepan a gill of white wine, with three 
spoonfuls of cut truffles, add it to the gammon, mush- 
rooms, and truffle that were kept back; cover the sauce- 
pan, boil till reduced by one quarter, and pour it with the 
other sauce at the moment of serving. 



188. SUPREME SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan on the fire a pint of Blanquette 
sauce; when near boiling mix with it a gill of chicken 
essence; stir well, simmer till the sauce has reached a 
nice soft consistency, without, however, getting thick ; then 
add a tablespoon ful of cream, an ounce of butter, and 
a few drops of lemon juice ; stir, and see that the butter is 
well melted before serving. 



189. RAViaOTE BUTTER. 

Pour into a stewpan on the fire one pint of Yelout^ 
sauce with half a pint of broth ; boil till reduced by one- 
third; stir almost constantly, and pass it through a tammy 
sieve into the stewpan, to which add three ounces of 
Bavigote butter; set it by the side of the fire; stir for 
a few seconds, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 95 

190. ROBERT SAUCE. 

Shred four onions in small dice, fry them in a stewpan 
with three ounces of butter; when the onions are nicely 
browned sprinkle over them an ounce of white flour, 
stir the lot, and fry for two or three minutes longer; 
then pour in a gill of vinegar with half a pint of broth 
or water and an ounce of sugar, boil for a few minutes, 
then add salt and pepper to taste ; stir nicely, and serve 
with either boiled meat or grilled fowl. 

191. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Scrape and mince fine a horse-radish, put it into a 
Btewpan with two tablespoonfals of flour and half a pint 
of cream, boil for half an hour, rub it through a sieve 
into the stewpan and boil it again, season with salt and 
pepper, add a little milk if necessary, and serve. 

192. GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Cut six green pickled gherkins in very thin slices, put 
them in a small stewpan with a few spoonfuls of vinegar 
and a pinch of pepper, let this boil quickly for a few 
minutes, then add a gill of Espagnole sauce and the same 
quantity of veal broth, stir on the fire till it boils, then 
draw the stewpan by the side of the fire, skim it, and 
fierva 

198. CAPER SAUCE. 

Put a teacupful of Allemande sauce into a stewpan, 
boil it with two tablespoonfuls of broth and an ounce 
of fresh butter, stir nicely, and pass through a sieve 
into the stewpan, then pour in two tablespoonfuls of 
capers, set on the fire, and when nearly boiling, serva 



96 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



194 FENNEL SAUCE. 

Wash and mince finely half a handful of fennel, put 
it in a bain-marie in which a teacupful of Allemande 
sauce has already been set to the boil; add a gill of 
chicken gravy, an ounce of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; 
mix these well together, and let the bain-marie boil for a 
few minutes before ser\ang. 



195. D'UXELLES SAUCE AND D'UXELLES. 

Wash, chop, and press in a cloth one pound of fresh 
mushrooms or trimmings of tinned champignons, one pound 
of parsley, and half a pound of shalots; put these in a 
stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and season 
with salt and pepper te taste ; fry on a brisk fire for six 
minutes, stirring the while with a wooden spoon; after 
which, put it by in a jar for future use. 

This mixture is called D'Uxelles. The sauce is made 
by adding two tablespoonfuls of the mixture to a pint of 
Espagnole sauce. 

195a. FINE HERBS. 

Minco very fine three small onions, fi-y these in two 
ounces of butter, then add a quarter of a pound of fresh 
mushrooms, similarly minced; continue the frying until 
dry, mix in the trimmings of two or three truffles, and two 
or three minutes afterwards add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, previously blanched ; mix this well to- 
gether, and put by in a jar covered with a buttered paper 
until wanted. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 97 

196. VENISON SAUCE. 

Stir and mix over the fire half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
with a gill of essence of game; then add a gill of port 
^Tine, the half of that quantity of good French vinegar, and 
two tablespoonfuls of black currant jellj; boil this for two 
minutes, add the juice of an orange, pour the sauce into 
a sauce-boat, and serve. 



197. MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Put into a small saucepan half a pint of Espagnole sauce 
with the same quantity of gravy, simmer till reduced to 
nearly half, give it an occasional stir, then add about four 
ounces of champignons nicely sliced (buttons and stalks), 
pour a little of their liquor with it, boil again for a few 
minutes, stir the while, season with salt, and serve. 

This sauce can be improved by adding a gill of white 
claret or sherry befbre serving. 

198. TRUFFLES SAUCE. 

Cut about two ounces of truffles in very thin slices, put 
these into a small saucepan with either a glass of white 
claret, sherry, or Marsala; boil it quickly till reduced to 
half, then pour into it half a pint of Espagnole and a small 
pinch of salt ; stir on the fire till it has boiled for two or 
three minutes longer, and serve. 

199. SALMIS SAUCE. 

Prepare some game essence ; mix half a pint of it with 
one pint of Espagnole sauce into a stewpan, boil for a few 
minutes, stir occasionally, then pass it through a sieve 

G 



98 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

into the stewpan, and set it by the side of the fire. Mean- 
while pound in a mortar the cooked liver of two or three 
partridges, grouse, or any other winged game ; mix it with 
the sauce, add an ounce of butter, boil it, stirring the while, 
and serve. 

200. HARE SAUCE. 

Four into a stewpan one pint of Espagnole sauce with 
half a pint of game essence, boil it and stir the while, add 
four tablespoonfuls of good French vinegar, salt and pepper 
to taste, stir on the fire again, and when boiling pass it 
through a sieve, and serve. 

201. DEVILLED SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, one shred 
onion, and two small slices of ham cut in very small dice ; 
when the onion is nicely browned, moisten it with a gill 
of good French vinegar, add a small " bouquet garni " a 
bay-leaf, and a pinch of white pepper; cover the stewpan, 
and let it simmer till reduced by half. Meantime mix in 
another small saucepan one pint of Espagnole sauce with 
half a pint of tomato sauce and one pint of veal broth ; boil ; 
stir occasionally till reduced by about one-quarter, then add 
half an ounce of sugar and the quarter of a teaspoouful 
of cayenne; stir this well, and mix it with the vinegar 
in the other stewpan, and after a few minutes of ebullition 
pass it through a fine tammy sieve; serve the quantity 
required, and put the remainder by in a cool place, to be 
warmed up in a bain-mane when wanted. 

202. ONION SAUCE. 

Peel and blanch in salt water three onions, cut them 
in slices and fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 99 

for two or three minutes; rub them afterwards through 
a wire sieve into the stewpan on the fire, pour half a 
pint of milk, salt and pepper to taste ; stir well, and when 
nearly boiling serve. 



208. CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Put in a stewpan half a pint of Espagnole sauce and the 
same quantity of gravy, reduce this to half by a quick 
boiling, then add a cucumber of ordinary size, peeled and 
cut in thin slices, which must have been previously soaked 
in vinegar and salt for at least half an hour ; sprinkle over 
it a little more salt and pepper, stir gently, boil it^ and 
serve, 

204. ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Put two glasses of French white wine into a stewpan 
with two or three large fresh mushrooms properly cleaned 
and minced finely ; also a small chopped onion, a " bouquet 
garni," and half a dozen pepper-corns ; boil it and simmer 
till reduced to half. Meanwhile put in another stewpan 
one pint of Yelout6 or Espagnole sauce, with a gill of game 
broth ; boil it, and stir for a few minutes ; then pour the 
wine sauce gradually over this, keep stirring, rub it after- 
wards through a tammy sieve, and add the juice of a lemon 
before serving. 

205. ITALIAN SHARP SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter one shred 
onion and three ounces of lean ham or gammon, cut in 
small dice; add a bay-leaf, a little parsley, and moisten 
with a gill of French vinegar ; boil and reduce it to half 
its quantity ; after which, mix with it a pint of Espagnole 



loo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

sauce as well as three spoonfuls of tomato sauce and a little 
salt and pepper; boil it for a few seconds, stir the while, 
pass through a tammy sieve into the stewpan again, 
and complete the sauce by adding two tablespoon fuls of 
capers, previously pressed in a cloth and minced fine before 
serving. 

206. VENITIAN SAUCE. 

Put in a bain-marie on a brisk fire a teacupful of Allo- 
mande sauce, a few tarragon-leaves cut diamond-sha])e, 
previously blanched and drained, one tablespoon ful of good 
chicken gravy, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoon ful of 
tarragon vinegar; mix well together and boil it in the 
bain-marie for a few minutes before serving. 

207. GENOISE SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce or two of butter two 
tablespoonfuls of olive-oil and an onion cut in slices; 
moisten with a glass of claret, add a handful each of fresh 
mushroom trimmings and truffles, a little chopped parsley, 
and half a bay-leaf, and simmer for about ten minutes. 
Meantime boil in a stewpan one pint of Espagnole sauce, 
with half a pint of veal broth and three tablespoonfuls of 
fish essence till reduced to one-third ; after which, add the 
contents of the first stewpan to it ; mix well, skim carefully, 
boil it again for a few minutes, then rub thix>ugh a 
tammy sieve, return it to the stewpan on the fire, add two 
ounces of crayfish butter and the same quantity of anchovy 
butter; stir and mix well on the fire till boiling, and then 
serve. 

208. NAPOLITAINE SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter a shred onion, 
with three ounces of gammon cut in small pieces ; moisten 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. loi 

With a glass of sherry or Marsala and a teacupful of veal 
broth ; add a few sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, a few pepper- 
corns, three cloves, and the trimmings of a few mushrooms 
well cleaned ; boll it ; cover the stewpan, and simmer till 
reduced by one-half. In the meantime pour into another 
stewpan one pint of Espagnole sauce, the same quantity 
of tomato sauce, and a gill of game broth; boil this till 
reduced to one- third, then add the contents of the first 
stewpan to it ; stir well, boil for a few minutes, and rub it 
through a tammy sieve before serving. 

209. ROMAINE SAUCE. 

Melt three ounces of sugar in a non- tinned copper pan, 
add four tablespoonfuls of good vinegar to it, and dilute 
both with a gill of broth ; then add one pint of Espagnole 
sauce, and ^tir on the fire till well mixed. Boil, and serva 



210. LOMBARDE SAUCE. 

Pour into a stewpan one pint of Blanquette sauce and 
half a pint of chicken essence, boil it, stir it occasionally, 
and after ten minutes of slow ebullition add the yolks of 
three eggs, well beaten and properly mixed with an ounce 
of melted butter and the juice of a lemon ; stir the contents 
on the fire well, and as soon as it reaches the boil draw 
the stewpan away from the fire ; add to it half a pint of 
tomato sauce, mix this well together, then rub it through 
a tammy sieve, and serve. 

211. SICILIAN SAUCE. 

Chop separately and fine four shalots, two small truffles, 
a little pai*sley, and a dozen ordinary mushrooms ; put the 



I02 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lot into a small saucepan with a little thyme, a bay-leaf, 
one clove of garlic, and a small pinch of cayenne ; moisten 
with two glasses of sherry ; set to simmer on a slow fire 
for ten minutes ; then add one pint of Allemande sauce ; 
continue the simmering for a few minutes longer, giving it 
an occasional stir, then add a spoonful of minced parsley, 
previously blanched, and the juice of half a lemon before 
serving. 

212. LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Cut the fleshy part of a small cooked lobster into very 
small dice, and put them on a plate ; pound in a mortar the 
spawn and coral of the lobster with two ounces of butter 
and rub it through a sieve ; then put in a stewpan half 
a pint of Velout^ sauce with the lobster butter just made, 
half a gill of good gravy, and a small pinch of cayenne; 
boil and stir occasionally, add the pieces of cut lobster 
and the juice of half a lemon, sprinkle a little pepper, 
and serve. 

218. SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Make half a pint of melted butter sauce, then add the 
coral of a small lobster, pounded and mixed with a small 
pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, eighteen 
picked shrimps, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 



214. VICTORLA SAUCE 

Put four tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly in a stew- 
pan with a dozen cloves, a small stick of cinnamon, the 
peel of two oranges, a gill of good gravy, and half a pint 
of Espagnole sauce ; moisten with half a pint of red wine 
(Burgundy is best), boil it and simmer for twenty minutes, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 103 

then pass it through a tammy sieve, add the juioe of two 
oranges, and serve. 

Note, — ^This sauce is generally served with red -deer or 
roebuck. 

216. RED CURRANT JELLT SAUCE. 

Break into shreds one stick of cinnamon and twelve 
cloves, put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of 
sugar and the peel of a lemon, which must be perfectly 
free from the white pulp; moisten with three glasses of 
port wine, then set the lot to simmer on the fire for a 
quarter of an hour; after which, pass it through a fine- 
pointed strainer into a stewpan containing six tablespoon- 
fuls of red currant jelly, boil it in order to melt the jelly, 
by stirring and mixing well before serving. 

This sauce is generally served with venison. 

216. BUTTER SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS. 

Prepare a butter sauce as directed, then add a gill of 
cream with a teaspoonful of French vinegar ; mix well on 
the fire, and serve. 

This sauce is also served with cauliflower, seakale, &c., kc, 

211. TOMATO SAUCE. 

Fry in a stewpan with an ounce of butter two ounces of 
gammon cut in small dice, with half an onion, half a carrot, 
and a little celery, all shred finely, together with a bay- 
leaf, a small " bouquet " composed of thyme, cloves, and 
pepper-corns ; moisten with three spoonfuls of good vine- 
gar, set it to simmer till the liquor is almost all absorbed, 
then pour in a gill of white claret and half a pint of broth ; 
add seven or eight ripe fresh tomatoes cut in pieces, with 



I04 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the seed and water squeezed out of them ; let it boil for 
about twenty minutes with the lid on the pan, give it an 
occasional stirring, then pass it, by rubbing, through a 
tammy sieve into the stewpan again on the fire ; mix with 
it a pint of Espagnole, Yelout^, or Blanquette sauce ; boil, 
and stir gently to prevent burning, add a tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, and the juice of half 
u lemon, mix well together, and serve. 

Note, — I give the recipe of this sauce as a matter of 
course, but strongly advise the use of tinned tomato sauce, 
as it will be found both cheaper and better, on account of 
the superiority and cheapness of tomatoes in France and 
Italy, where they ripen better under a moi'e genial sun 
than in the hothouses of this country. 



COLD SA UCES. 



218. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 



Mix in a ro\ind-bottomed basin half a pint of Yelout6 
or Blanquette sauce with the same quantity of melted white 
jelly (No. 150), salt and pepper to taste and a little grated 
nutmeg ; set the basin in a bucket or saucepan containing 
some broken ice, then proceed to work the sauce with a 
wooden spoon without stopping, pouring with your left hand, 
little by little, half a pint of good olive-oil, stirring the while. 
When the sauce is nicely mounted and has reached its proper 
consistency add the juice of two lemons and a few sprigs of 
finely chopped chervil and tarragon, stir, and serve. 

219. ANOTHER MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put in a similar basin as in No. 218 the yolks of two 
Gggs with salt to taste, and a few drops of lemon-juice; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 105 

proceed to work ibis sauce in the same manner as above 
with a wooden spoon and by pouring half a pint of good olive- 
oil, almost drop by drop, into the basin to begin with, till 
the half of the oil has been properly mixed, then a larger 
quantity at a time can be poured in. Keep stirring to and 
fro without stopping till the sauce assumes its proper con- 
sistency, then squeeze the juice of quarter of a lemon, and 
add gradually a gill of good French vinegar ; stir the while, 
and when the sauce is of a nice appearance sprinkle a small 
pinch of white pepper, the juice of two lemons, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a few sprigs of chervil chopped finely ; 
mix these ingredients well together, pour it into a sauce- 
boat, and serve. 



220. MAYONNAISE RAVIGOTE SAUCE. 

Blanch in boiHng salt water for a few minutes a small 
quantity each of chervil, tarragon, parsley, the white part 
of a small head of celery, and one shalot ; then let them get 
cold, and pound them in a mortar with four washed and 
boned anchovies ; add three tablespoonfuls of Velout^ sauce, 
rub the lot through a tammy sieve, and at the moment of 
serving mix it with half the quantity of Mayonnaise sauce 
previously made as in the preceding number. 

Note, — The above Mayonnaise sauces are generally served 
as a dressing with any kind of cold fish, lobster, or cold 
fowl. 

221. TARTARE SAUCE. 

Mince finely a few sprigs each of parsley, chervil, 
tarragon, and one shalot, as well as the white part of 
the quarter of a head of celery, three boned anchovies, 
half a dozen capers, and the rind of half a lemon ; put the 



io6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lot into a cloth and twist it, so as to squeeze the jaice ont, 
then mix the minced substance with two or three table- 
spoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (No. 219), to which add one 
tablespoonful of mustard flour, a pinch of white pepper, and 
a few drops of lemon- juice before serving. 

Note, — ^This sauce can be served with hot or cold fish as 
well as meat. 

222. REMOULADE SAUCE. 

Blanch a small quantity of tarragon, chervil, bumet, and 
an onion; then chop and pound the lot in a mortar with 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, add salt and pepper 
to taste, a spoonful of mustard flour and a little grated 
nutmeg; pour all into a basin, and add gradually to it, 
in small quantities, about a gill of good oil ; work the com- 
pound with a wooden spoon exactly as a Mayonnaise sauce, 
then pour two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, continue 
the stirring till well mixed, when it must be rubbed through 
a sieve, and served. Cayenne can also be added if liked. 

228. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Pour four tablespoonfuls of mustard flour into a basin 

« 

with a little salt, dilute it with a gill of boiling water, stir 
the while to prevent clotting, add two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar; stir, and see that the sauce is smooth before 
serving. 

224. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Cut in very small dice the root of an ordinary horse- 
radish, pound it in a mortar, then mix it with one ounce 
of powdered sugar and one of grated bread-crumbs, moisten 
with vinegar, pass through a sieve, put it into a basin, 
dilute with more vinegar, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 107 

226. HINT SAUCE. 

Put in a basiQ two ounces of brown sugar with two 
tablespoonfuls of fresh green mint, chopped fine, and half 
a pint of vinegar, mix well, and as soon as the sugar is 
dissolved, serve. 

226. MAItRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Put about two ounces of butter on a plate with a little 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, 
knead the lot well together, and serve. 

This butter is used for kidneys, steaks, cutlets, broiled 
fish of all kinds, &c., &c. 

227. CALF'S FOOT JELLY (PLAIN). 

Scrape, clean, and cut in pieces four calf's feet, put them 
in an ordinary saucepan with three quarts of water on a 
good fire, boil for about four hours, pay proper attention 
to the skimming, then strain through a hair sieve into an 
earthenware basin, remove all particles of fat with a sheet 
of blotting or kitchen paper, and place it on a shelf in a 
cool place. When cold wash the top of the jelly with a 
clean cloth dipped in boiling water. 

This plain jelly may be the foundation of all wine, fruit, 
and liqueur jellies when gelatine is not used, and can be 
kept good for a long time if boiled every day. 



CHAFfER IV. 
PUREES OF VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING, ETC. 

228. PUR£e of tomatoes. 

Cut a dozen fresh ripe tomatoes in slices, squeeze the 
water out of them and put them into a stewpan on a slow 
fire, with half a pint of broth, a "bouquet garni/' and two 
slices of gammon ; simmer till the liquid is nearly consume<l, 
then add a gill of Yelout^ or Blanquette sauce, stir and 
mix all well together on the fire, then rub it through a 
sieve into a bain-marie to be kept hot till wanted. 

229. PUR£e a la SOUBISE. 

Peel, cut, and blanch for ten minutes in boiling salt 
water six medium-sized onions ; strain and squeeze the 
water out of them ; place these afterwards in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter and three small slices of gammon, 
fry for five minutes on a slow fire, then add a gill of chicken 
broth with a pinch of white pepper ; let them simmer for 
half an hour, pour in a gill of B^hamel sauce, stir occa- 
sionally, and simmer again for five minutes; after which, 
rub through a sieve into a bain-marie, and at the moment 
of serving throw in a lump of sugar. 

Nofe. — Should there be no B^hamel sauce made, a table- 
spoonful of semolina flour, diluted in a gill of cream, will 
be a good substitute for it. 

zo8 



practical household cookery. 109 
280. pur£e of vegetables. 

Slice the red part of four carrots, two turnips, one onion, 
two leeks, and two heads of celery ; wash and strain the 
lot properly, then pour them into a stewpan with three 
ounces of butter, fry till of a nice brown colour ; add to it 
half a pint of broth in which two or three slices of crumb 
of bread have been soaking, together with a little each of 
sugar, white pepper, and grated nutmeg ; boil on a good fire 
till the vegetables are well cooked, then pound them in a 
mortar, and return the pur<5e to the stewpan, with half 
a pint of Espagnole sauce and a tablespoonful of essence of 
chicken, boil again for a few minutes, and pass through a 
sieve in the usual way before serving. 



281. pur£e of potatoes. 

Feel, wash, and cut in slices two pounds of potatoes; 
cook them in a saucepan with a little salt water. When 
cooked, strain off the water through a colander and return 
the potatoes into the saucepan with four ounces of butter, 
a little sugar, and half a pint of cream or milk ; stir well 
on the fire, and boil, then rub through a sieve into the 
saucepan again, add a little more butter, together with a 
gill of hot chicken gravy, mix well on the fire, and serve. 



232. PUR^E of green PEAS. 

Cook in plenty of salt water with a few branches of 
mint one quart of fresh shelled peas in a covered stewpan. 
When cooked, strain off the water through a colander, 
thi-ow the mint away, pound the peas in a mortar or rub 
them through a sieve, return the pur^e to the stewpan with 



no PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

two ounces of butter, half a pint of Bechamel sauce or 
good gravy, and a piece of sugar, mix well, set to the boil, 
and serve. 



2SS. PUR^E OF DRY PEAS. 

Soak in plenty of water a quart of dry peas for about 
ten hours, strain off the water in which the peas have 
soaked, boil them as in No. 232, but with less salt, add a 
" bouquet garni," a piece of sugar, pepper, grated nutmeg, 
and a slice of the crumb of bread. When well cooked, strain 
off the water, throw the " bouquet " away, pound the peas 
and bread in a mortar, return the pur^ to the stewpan 
on the fire, add a gill of Espagnole sauce ; stir and mix well, 
set to the boil, pass through a sieve in the usual way, and 
serve. 



284. PUR^E OF LENTILS. 

Proceed for this purfe exactly as for the pur^e of dry 
peas. 

286. PURJ^E OF TURNIPS. 

Fry in butter eight large turnips, cut in small slices, 
after having been blanched in the usual way for five 
minutes ; then add a gill of veal broth or some good gravy, 
a piece of sugar, and two slices of crumb of bread, boil 
gently till well cooked, skim it carefully, and pound it in 
a mortar ; return the puree to the stewpan with half a pint 
of B^hamel sauce ; stir well, and boil, then pass it through 
a sieve into the stewpan, and just before serving add half 
a gill of hot gravy with an ounce of butter, stir well on 
the fire till mixed, and serva 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. iii 

236. 

Celery, Carrots, French Beans, Endive, Cauliflower, and 
Spinach are made into purees in the same manner as the 
above. 

287. PURJ^E OF CHESNUTS. 

Cook and peel two pounds of chesnuts in the same way 
as in No. 51, but finishing the cooking in water instead 
of broth ; then strain and pound them in a mortar, return 
the pur^e to the stewpan on the fire with half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce, stir, and boil ; rub the pur^e through a 
sieve into the stewpan again on the fire, add an ounce 
of butter and a gill of cream, mix well whilst on the 
fire, and when hot serve. 

238. PUR£E of sorrel. 

Pick and wash well in two or three waters three pounds 
of sorrel; drain off the water; melt in a stewpan two 
ounces of butter, put the sorrel in and cover the stewpan 
on the fire for a few minutes; stir afterwards with a 
wooden spoon on the fire till the sorrel is soft or melted, 
when it must be turned over into a hair sieve to drain. 
Meanwhile fry in the same stewpan with two ounces of 
butter an onion shred very fine, till of a nice brown colour ; 
then add a tablespoonful of flour, a little grated nutmeg, 
a tablespoonful of brown sugar, salt and pepper to taste ; 
stir on the fire for a few seconds ; after which, moisten with 
a gill of Espagnole sauce, add the sorrel from the sieve, 
simmer till well reduced and the sorrel turned into a purcSe, 
taking care to stir it with a wooden spoon the whole time ; 
then rub it through a tammy sieve in the usual way, and 
serve hot, garnished with croutons and a spoonful of good 
gravy poured over it. 




112 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



239. PUR£e of JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Proceed for this pur6e exactly in the same manner as 
for the pur^ of potatoes, taking the same quantity of 
artichokes, substitrTting them for potatoes. 




Remarks on Egos. 

New-laid eggs are absolutely necessary for good cooking. 
They are as nourishing as their equivalent weight in meat, 
and more digestible, and, like rice, they can be prepared 
in many diflFerent ways. They are served in soups as well' 
as in made dishes, and are appreciated in salads as well 
as in sweet dishes and omelets, besides being constantly 
used in sauces, paste, pastry, liaisons, &c., &c. 

The freshness of eggs can easily be ascertained by 
immersing them gently one after the other in a basinful 
of cold water; those lying flat at the bottom are quite 
fresh, those remaining perpendicular are not, and the eggs 
that float or swim are bad. Thus any one can tell the 
different ages of, say, a dozen eggs without fear of a 
mistake, and I strongly advise every one to always try 
them in this way before breaking them. 

240. BOILED EGGS. 

Place the number of eggs required to be cooked into 
a ladle in boiling water for three minutes in summer and 
half a minute longer in winter, and serve in egg-cups. 

241. EGGS WITH BROWN OR BLACK BUTTER. 

For each couple of eggs required put a piece of butter 
as big as a walnut into a frying-pan on the fire ; let the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 113 

butter boily then break the eggs in the middle, by a gentle 
knock on the border of the pan (after having tried their 
freshness as indicated), and drop them gently in, without 
breaking the yolks; sprinkle a little salt and pepper on 
I 1 ; > each, fry for about three minutes and remove them care- 
l* '.; fully on a dish with a flat strainer, and keep hot; return 

I ' . the frying-pan to the fire with half an ounce of butter 

I \'"^U'- (^^^ ®^^ *^^ ^ggs), and fry this butter till it is nearly 
i  . ' ;V black; then add a dessert- spoonful of French vinegar 
I !-:' 1 •;• for each half -ounce of butter, with a sprig of parsley 
\ vj.: . chopped fine ; pour it over the eggs, and serve. 


















242. EGGS FRIED. 

Melt half an ounce of butter in a frying pan, and when 
boiling break two eggs, drop them gently into the frying- 
pan; season with salt and pepper, and when the whites 

get firm and begin to brown, serve on a hot dish. 

* 

: V : ; 24S. EG6S WITH CREAM AND BUTTER. 

.'^' V Put about a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small flat 

*'-."'''•• enamelled pan, on the fire, with a gill of cream, a little salt 
^/ if.^ and pepper for every two eggs broken, as in the foregoing. 
Meantime have red hot a salamander or iron shovel, hold 
it over the pan on the fire for two minutes, so that the con- 
tents are being cooked on the top as well as at the bottom 
of the pan at the same time ; and then serve quickly. 
Note, — Eggs cooked in enamelled pans should always be 
CI ; sent to the table in them, on plates. 



'c;' 









'-V:t: 244. EGGS AU PLAT. 

•' V / - 
•- * . .> :. 






Put a quarter of an ounce of butter into a small enamelled 
i; • pan as in No. 243 ; let the butter melt on a moderate fire, 

H 



114 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

then break two eggs and drop them into the pan without 
disturbing the jolks; let them simmer gently till the 
whites get firm, season with salt and pepper, put the pan 
in a hot oven for half a minute, and serve. 



245. POACHED EGGS. 

Put a quart of boiling water into a saut^paa with a gill 
of vinegar and a good pinch of salt ; when the water boils, 
break the number of eggs required to be poached and drop 
gently one by one into the boiling water ; as soon as the 
whites get firm, take them out with a flat skimmer and 
place gently on a clean cloth, trim the whites with a knife, 
and serve either on plain toast, anchovy toast, with slices 
of bacon or purees, minced meat, &c., &c. 



24a. EGGS AU PLAT WITH TOMATOES. 

Peel, slice, and squeeze the water out of a fresh tomato ; 
put half an ounce of butter into a small enamelled pan on 
the fire ; when the butter is melted, break and drop two 
eggs into it, with the slices of tomato; season well with 
salt and pepper, cook till the whites get firm, and then put 
the pan in the oven for one minute, and serva 



247. EGGS A LA TRIPE. 

Boil ten eggs for ten minutes, immerse them afterwards 
in cold water for a few minutes to get cold, take them out, 
roll each one after the other on the table to break the 
shells, which remove with your fingers. Cut them in thick 
round slices and put into a stewpan. Cut two onions in 
slices so as to leave them in rings ; blanch in salt water 
for a few minutes; strain and place in a stewpan with 



\ 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



"5 



a gill of veal broth ; boil and simmer till cooked ; then pour 
them over the eggs with half a pint of Bechamel sauce, the 
clove of a garlic chopped very fine, a little nutmeg, salt 
and pepper to taste, and the juice of a lemon. Set the 
stewpan on the fire, toss the lot to prevent burning, and 
as soon as the eggs are made hot, dish up nicely inter- 
woven with the rings of onion and some slices of bread cut 
the same shape fried in butter, and serva 



248. EGGS BR0UILL£S WITH ASPARAGUSPOINTS. 

Break and beat eight eggs into a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of grated cheese, three ounces of butter, a gill of 
cream or milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the stew- 
pan on a moderate fire, stirring all the time with a wooden 
spoon, and occasionally shake and toss the stewpan to pre- 
vent the contents from attaching itself to the bottom of 
the pan. When the eggs begin to thicken draw the stewpan 
by the side of the fire, add twenty small asparagus pre- 
viously cooked, strained, and cut in small points ; continue 
to work the eggs and mix with the asparagus-points until 
the eggs are nicely set, but not hard. Then pour into 
a hot dish and decorate with croiitons cut triangle-shape, 
and fried in butter before serving. 

Note. — ^The same thing can be made with chopped parsley, 
green peas, mushrooms, truffles, tomatoes, bacon and ham 
cut in small dice, taking care to previously cook the 
vegetables in the usual way, or to fry the ham or bacon 
in butter before mixing with the eggs. 



249. EGGS WITH SAUCE. 

Boil eight eggs in water for ten or twelve minutesi 
dip in cold water and shell them, cut each egg into halves 



Ii6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

lengthwise, and place with taste on a hot dish, and put the 
dish in the open oven. Meanwhile have ready boiling half 
a pint of either butter, Ravigote, Blanquette, or any other 
sauce that may be fancied, and poui^ it over the eggs, and 
serve. 

260. EGGS AU GRATIN. 

Boil eight or ten eggs hard ; dip them into cold water ; 
shell and cut in slices; put these by on a plate. Put 
half a pint of Blanquette sauce into a stewpan, boil it 
and let it simmer for ten minutes, giving it an occasional 
stir ; then add half an ounce of butter, two ounces of grated 
cheese, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, 
the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of three eggs; 
stir the lot quickly over the fire till it begins to thicken, 
when the stewpan must be drawn away from the £re. 
Then take a gratin-dish, put the eggs in close circular 
rows in it, spread some of the mixture out of the stewpan, 
over and between each layer, obseiTing that the dishing- 
up must be in the form of a dome; smooth the surface 
over with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle a handful 
of bread-crumbs mixed with the same quantity of grated 
cheese over the top; decorate the base of the eggs with 
triangular cro^ltons fried in butter, set the dish in a hot 
oven to gratinate for about ten minutes, and serva 



251. EGGS A LA DAUPHINE. 

Boil twelve eggs hard, plunge them in cold water, 
take the shells ofP and cut each egg into halves, scoop 
the yolks out and put in a mortar, place the whites on a 
dish and keep hot ; add to the yolks a quarter of a pound 
of butter, about two ounces of the crumb of bread soaked 



i-4 






PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 117 

in cream, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated 
nutmeg, two ounces of grated cheese, season with salt and 
pepper, and pound the whole well together. Add one raw 
egg and the yolks of two others, mix these well together 
by pounding again, then take this compound with a dessert- 
spoon, and fill up each white part of the eggs with it, and 
smooth each one over with the blade of a small knife 
dipped in water. Having thus filled the whites of the 
eggs, spread the remainder of the mixture on the bottom 
of a gratin dish, then proceed to build up the eggs in 
three or four tiers in a pyramidal form. Kub through 
a wire sieve the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, by 
holding the sieve over the dish so that the shreds like 
vermicelli may fall direct on and around the eggs, or 
form afterwards a border round the base of the dibh 
with croutons fried in butter. Set the dish in the oven 
for about twenty minutes or till the eggs are of a bright 
yellow colour, then pour a little hot white sauce round, 
and serve. 



252. EGGS A L'AURORE. 

Boil ten eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut each 
into halves lengthwise, take the yolks carefully out and 
place them on a dish, shred the whites in fine strips, 
put these into a stewpan with a sauce composed of half 
a pint of bechamel mixed with a little lobster butter, 
the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
and a small pinch of cayenne ; toss the strips in the stew- 
pan over the fire until quite hot, then put a layer into 
the centre of a hot dish with a boixler of croiitons fried 
in butter, previously stuck round the bottom of the di^b, 
sprinkle a handful of grated cheese over it, and rub the 
yolks of eggs put apart through a wire sieve, in the same 



' I 



ii8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

manner as in No. 251 ; make another lajer of the whites 
and sauce, then shake again a little grated cheese and 
shreds of yolk, and so on, till the lot is used up, finishing 
with the yolks of eggs in shreds. Set the dish in the 
oven till it has attained a bright yellow colour, and serve. 



26a. PLAIN OMELET WITH PARSLEY. / i 

' -. 

Break six eggs into a basin ; add one tablespoonf ul of  ' I 

finely chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to taste; 
beat the contents well with a fork ; meantime melt in a V . » 

clean frying-pan (size, 7 inches) two ounces of butter, and as w j 

soon as the butter begins to fritter pour the egg-mixture 
into it, taking care to beat it whilst it is being poured in ; '\ 

then stir gently on the fire with the right hand, and give 
an occasional shake and toss to the pan with left ; when 
the omelet begins to get firm and is partially set, roll ^ ! 

over the extremity nearest to the handle with the fork, ! 

do the same thing on the opposite side, to give it an oval , > 

form, allowing it at the same time to acquire a golden '^ 

colour on the outside, or side touching the frying-pan. 
When properly cooked, take a hot oval dish with the left 
hand, turn the omelet over on to it from the pan, which is  
held by the right hand almost perpendicular against the 
dish, and serve. 

Although omelets are very simple and easily made, noth- 
ing but practice, combined with knowledge and attention, 
will teach the cook how to ensure success in their prepara- y 

tion. A proper omelet-pan should always be kept for the 
purpose. The eggs should never be overbeaten, as by so 
doing a watery mixture is produced, which will sometimes 
destroy the taste as well as the appearance. And lastly, 
never attempt to make an omelet with more than four- 
teen eggs ; if more are wanted, it is better to make two v 

\ 






PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 119 

small than one large, which is generally difficult to cook 
properly. 

254. OMELET WITH HAM OR BACON. 

Beat six eggs in the same way as in No. 253, with or with- 
out parsley, and very little salt Then cut in small dice 
two slices of either ham, gammon, or bacon (if raw, fry 
in butter for a few minutes). Melt in a frying-pan two 
ounces of butter, and when boiling pour into it the eggs 
beaten as above; stir in the same manner. Mix the 
pieces of ham or bacon with it, and as soon as cooked 
fold in same style and serve as described in the foregoing. 



255. OMELET WITH ONION. 

Peel and slice two onions; fry them in a frying-pan 
with two ounces of butter till nicely browned ; meanwhile 
beat six e^^ into a basin, and add salt and pepper to taste. 
When the onions are properly browned add a little more 
butter to the frying-pan, then pour the mixture of eggs 
into it, stir in the usual way, fold, and serva 



266. OMELET WITH TOMATOES. 

Peel, cut in slices, and squeeze the water out of three 
tomatoes, fry them in a frying-pan with two ounces of 
butter for a few minutes, and sprinkle a little salt and 
pepper over them. Meantime break -and beat six eggs, 
with salt and pepper, into a basin as before* melt two 
ounces of butter in the frying-pan, pour the eggs in and 
stir in the usual way, and when nearly cooked draw the 
pan away from the fire, spread the tomatoes over the 
omelet, push the pan over the fire again, fold as before, 
and serve. 



120 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



257. OKELET WITH HSH. 

Cut in small pieces, properly boned, any cooked fish 
that may remain from the previous day's dinner ; fry it in 
a frying-pan with a little butter. Meanwhile prepare an 
omelet in the usual way, mix the fish with it, fold, and 
serve. 

258. OMELET WITH KIDNEYS. 

Procure two or three sheep's kidneys ; take the skin off 
and cut them in thin slices; put these into a stewpan, 
moisten with Espagnole sauce or good gravy, sprinkle with ] 

salt and pepper to taste, add half a glass of sherry, and let 
them simmer till cooked. ^leanwhile prepare an omelet 
with six or eight eggs, spread the kidneys over it when 
cooked, sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley, fold, and 
serve. A few slices of mushrooms added to the kidneys 
will improve the omelet. 



259. OMELET WITH ARTICHOKE. 

Blanch and cut in small quartei^s, the hearts of three or 
four artichokes, fry them in butter for a few minutes, and 
proceed to mix with the omelet as for the tomatoes. 

260. OMELET WITH CHEESE. 

Beat six eggs in the usual way with salt and pepper; 
add four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, then proceed with 
this as in other omelets, and when on the dish sprinkle a 
little more grated cheese on the top with a spoonful of 
good gravy, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 121 



261. OMELET WITH CHEESE, No. 2. 

Beat six eggs into a basin with a gill of cream ; salt and 
pepper to taste, with two tablespoonf uls of grated cheese ; 
sbred very fine two ounces of Gniyfere cheese ; then proceed 
with the omelet in all respects like the others, and when 
nearly cooked di*aw the pan from the fire, spread the 
Gruj^re cheese over it, return the pan to the fire, fold 
nicely, and serve. 



262. OMELET WITH OYSTERS. 

Proceed and finish this omelet in the same manner as 
the foregoing, merely substituting oysters, prepared as for 
scallops, instead of cheese. 

263. OMELET PIEMONTAISE OR FONDU. 

Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan ; beat them 
Well with a gill of cream and two ounces of butter j cut in 
small dice one pound of Gruy^re cheese, put the half of it 
into the saucepan with the eggs, set the pan on a mmlerate 
fire, stir gently till the cheese begins to melt ; then add the 
remainder of the cheese to it ; continue stirring, but very 
slowly, and do not let it boil. When properly worked and 
of the consistency of a Bechamel sauce, pour it into a hot 
dish, and serve with a few slices of trufiles spread on the 
top of it. 

264. 

Omelets can also be made with spinach, sorrel, peas, 
asparagus, mushrooms (fresh and tinned), truffles, brains, 
giblets, &c., &a The process of their composition is always 



122 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the same, only varying in the cooking of the different 
ingredients required to put with it. 

Note, — For all sweet omelets, snow eggs, dsc, see Sweets. 



265. BREAD PANADA. 

Soak about half a pound of the crumb of stale bread in 
tepid water for a quarter of an hour; then put it on a 
cloth, fold, and wring it tightly to squeeze the water out ; 
after which, turn it into a stewpan with half a pint of white 
broth, set the stewpan on the fire and simmer till the 
broth is completely reduced, stirring all the time with a 
wooden spoon till the contents assume the consistency of a 
thick paste ; then add an ounce of butter, continue stirring 
for a few seconds, pour it into a plate and store it away in 
the larder ready for use. 



266. RICE PANADA. 

Put three ounces of rice into a saucepan, soak it with 
half a pint of white broth for about fifteen minutes ; set it 
on the fire and boil gently, without stirring, for another 
fifteen minutes ; add an ounce of butter, stir well on the 
fire for ^yq minutes, rub the rice through a sieve, spread 
it on a plate, and put it in a cool place for future use. 



267. SEMOLINA PANADA. 

Put in a stewpan half a pint of white broth with one 
and a half ounce of butter ; boil ; draw the stewpan away 
from the fire, sprinkle into it four ounces of semolina flour, 
stir gently by the side of the fire till the semolina is nicely 
dried up, then turn it into a plate and put by, like the 
previous panada. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 123 

268. BREAD-RASPINGS. 

Save the pieces of stale bread, put them in a tin dish in 
the oven over- night to dry until next morning, then pound 
in a mortar, pass through a fine wire sieve, and put in a 
tin box for use. 

269. BREADINGS. 

For breadings, beat two eggs on a plate, and mix well 
with a tablespoonful of oil and a little salt and pepper. 
Rub through a wire sieve a few pieces of crumb of stale 
bread, put it in a tin dish in the oven to dry and get a 
bright golden colour, and then turn it into a closed box 
for use. 



CHAPTER V. 

FORCEMEAT^GARNISHING IN GENERAL—AND 

SALPICON. 

Forcemeat is a mixture of fat or lean meat, chicken, 
game, or fish, and the necessary seasoning, all well pounded 
together. These are very useful in cookery, and turned 
to good account for " hors-d'oBUvres " and " gratins," as well 
as for garnishing fish, entrees, &c., &c., when made into 
quenelles. 

270. VEAL FORCEMEAT. 

Clean, peel, and cook four potatoes; put in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter, and mash them properly; turn 
the puree into a dish, and place the dish on the ice if 
in warm weather, or in a cool place in winter. Mean- 
time cut in small pieces, six ounces of a cushion of veal, 
and three ounces of the udder of veal. Melt one ounce of 
butter in a stewpan, and fry these till nicely browned; 
moisten with a few tablespoonfuls of broth; let them 
simmer till the lot is cooked and well glazed; add three 
ounces of chopped calf's liver; simmer for six minutes 
longer, and draw it away from the fire; let it get cold; 
after which, pound it in a mortar with one pound of raw 
fiesh of veal, free from skin and sinew and chopped fine ; 
then add to it the mashed potatoes ; season with salt and 
pepper; sprinkle a little grated nutmeg, with one table- 

Bpoonful of Bechamel sauce and three eggs well beaten ; 

124 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 125 

rub the mixture through a wire sieve into a basin, and put 
it in a cool place ready for use, either for quenelles or 
stuffing. 

270a. ANOTHER VEAL STUFHRG. 

Chop fine half a pound each, of veal and bacon, both free 
from skin, gristle, and rind ; season well with salt, pepper, 
a little allspice, and grated nutmeg; add six sage-leaves 
well chopped, a teaspoonful of marjoram, and four blanched 
and finelj-shred onions; pound these well together in a 
mortar, and place it in a stewpan with two ounces of 
melted butter; stir the contents over the fire for about 
eight minutes, then add the yolks of four well -beaten eggs^^ 
and continue the stirring and mixing for two or three 
minutes longer, when the stuffing is ready for use. 

271. CHICKEN FORCEMEAT FOR QUENELLES. 

Proceed for this forcemeat as in the previous number ; 
glaze the boned meat of a chicken in the same manner, but 
add the chicken's liver five minutes sooner; then pound 
ami pass it through a sieve in the same way. 

272. ANOTHER CHICKEN FORCEMEAT. 

Pound in a mortar half a pound of raw chicken -breast, 
free from skin and fat ; add to it three spoonfuls of cold 
Bechamel sauce, the white of an egg, season with salt and 
a little nutmeg, rub it through a sieve with a little panada, 
and put by ready for use. 

278. GAME FORCEMEAT. 

Follow the same instructions for this forcemeat as for the 
veal, but substitute three ounces of fat bacon or ham for 



126 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the udder and hare-flesh or venison instead of veal, and 
when browning in buiter add a glass of sherry or Marsala 
and a bay-leaf, which must be taken out of the stewpan 
and thrown away ; when the meat is cooked, then pound 
it in the mortar, pass it through a wire sieve, and store 
away as before. 



274w CALF*S LIVER FORCEMEAT. 

Cut in small slices half a pound of fresh calf's liver, 
wash in water, and dry them afterwards with a cloth ; fry 
them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter for a few 
minutes ; moisten with veal broth and simmer till the liver 
is well cooked ; pour the contents in a mortar, and let it 
get cold ; then pound it with a truffle cut in dice, half a 
pound of raw liver, cleaned as aforesaid, one pound of 
mashed potatoes, the yolks of three eggs and a whole one ; 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. When well pounded and 
mixed together rub it through a wire sieve into a basin, 
and put by in a cool place. 



275. RAW FISH FORCEMEAT. 

Clean, cut, and bone about one pound of either cod, 
turbot, sole, whiting, pike, brill, or any other fish that may 
be had ; pound these raw pieces in a mortar, add six ounces 
of panada, the yolks of four eggs, and a quarter of a pound 
of butter, and season with salt and grated nutmeg. When 
the lot is well pounded together rub it through a wire 
sieve into a basin, then mix it with two tablespoonfuls of 
Velout^ sauce, and put it in a cool place ready to be made 
into quenelles. 



'-» • 



• *-• 



■^(W:' 



« f 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 127 

276. ANOTHER FISH FORCEMEAT. 

Prepare one pound and a half of fish as in No. 275 ; fry 
the half of it in a stewpan with three ounces of butter and 
two shalots, chopped fine, for six or eight minutes ; stir the 
while to give it a good turn all round ; after which, let it get 
cold. Then pound it in a mortar, with the other half of 
raw fish, add six ounces of mashed potatoes and one ounce 
of butter to it, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
and complete the mixture with an ounce of grated cheese 
sprinkled over it, and three eggs well beaten. When the 
whole is well pounded and properly mixed, rub it through 
a wire sieve into a basin, and keep it in a cool place till 
wanted. 

277. LOBSTER FORCEMEAT. 

Shell the meat out of one or two cooked lobsters, cut in 
small dice, and pound it well in a mortar with two ounces of 
butter ; add four ounces of panada, three ounces of butter, 
three eggs well beaten, a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a 
small pinch of cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, 
and about half a pound of mashed potatoes ; pound the lot 
properly, and mix it well in the mortar. Rub it through 
a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, in the usual way, into a 
basin, and put it by in a cool place till wanted. 

Note. — Forcemeat should be used the same day it is made, 
especially fish forcemeat. 

The proper mode of forming forcemeat into quetielles for 
soups is as follows : — Make a paper funnel, put some of the 
forcemeat in it, close the top by folding the paper down, so 
as to enclose the forcemeat, cut the point of the funnel to 
the size required to shape the quenelles, and squeeze the 
forcemeat out upon a saut^pan previously buttered, taking 



128 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

care to keep some of the forcemeat in the funnel, in order 
to enable jou to put some more stuffing into it, without 
being compelled to make another funnel. These quenelles, 
however, must differ in this much, that those made for 
soups should be smaller and lighter than those intended 
for garnishing entries and other dishes. 



Remarks on Garnishing in General, and on Truffles 
AND Mushrooms in Particular. 

Garnishing in cookery is principally made of vegetables, 
prepared and cooked in different ways, and like sauces, 
plays a great part in high- class cookery. In my attempt, 
however, to give a great variety, the faict must not be lost 
sight of, that the majority of them are within everybody's 
reach, as they include vegetables in general use, cooked 
with the meat and served around it 

The most expensive item in a garnish is the truffle, a 
kind of tuber very highly appreciated on account of its 
aromatic flavour. The months in which it is at its best 
are November, December, and January; but it can, never- 
theless, be obtained nearly all the year round. 

The best truffles imported fresh into this country are 
black, and come from Perigord (France), but unless properly 
surrounded by mould from which they have been dug, they 
are subject to lose their very fragrance which endears them 
so much to epicures. The white Piedmontese truffles have 
a very high reputation for delicacy, scent, and flavour, but 
(unhappily for English epicui*es) they cannot bear a long 
journey or perhaps such a change of climate. 

The use of preserved truffles cannot be advocated, as 
their original perfume is nearly all lost. There are in this 
country plenty of fresh mushrooms, gathered dail}- in fiehls 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 129 

and woods for about eight months in the year, that might 
be turned to better advantage, and be in many in&itances a 
very good substitute for tinned truffles. 



278. GARNISH OF CHESNUtS. 

Peel ofip the first skin of fifty chesnuts, boil the ches- 
nuts in water for five or six minutes, strain off the water, 
remove the second skin, and fry them in a saute-pan with 
two ounces of butter for a few minutes ; after which, add 
half a pint of good broth, let them simmer till cooked, 
giving an occasional toss to the pan, and when glazed all 
round, serve with a roast turkey or goose. 



279. GARNISH OF LETTUCES. 

Plainly cooked as well as stuffed lettuces are served as a 
garnish with or without being glazed. In either case cook 
the lettuces as directed in soups 42 and 43. 



280. GARNISH OF GLAZED ONIONS. 

Peel a dozen small onions of a similar size ; put them in 
a well- buttered saut^-pan with neai-ly a pint of good broth 
and a little sugar, let them simmer gently by the side of 
the fire, taking care to often turn the onions over, so as to 
give them an even colour all round, and when well glazed 
and properly cooked, serve them with braized meat. 



28L GARNISH OF MACEDOINE BJgCHAMEL. 

Blanch in the usual way in separate waters two carrots, 
three turnips, twenty-five asparagus-heads, a good handful 



I30 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

each of peas and French beans, and three branches off the 
top of a cauliflower; strain off the different waters, cut 
the carrots and turnips in small fancy shapes, the French 
beans and asparagus in small diamonds; put the whole 
in a saut^pan with half a pint of Bechamel sauce, two 
tablespoon fuls of chicken gravy, two ounces of butter, a 
piece of sugar, and a little grated nutmdg ; set the saut^- 
pan on the fire, simmer gently till the vegetables are 
properly glazed, then serve with veal cutlets, <S^. 



282. GARNISH OF CELERY. 

Clean and cut in pieces of about half an inch long, four 
large heads of celery; blanch these in boiling salt water 
for five minutes, strain, and immerse in cold water, and 
lay them on a cloth. When nicely dried put them in a 
saut<i-pan with half a pint of broth, an ounce of butter, 
a piece of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and salt to ta^te ; 
boil, and then simmer for about an hour ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of chicken gi'avy, see that the celery gets pro- 
perly glazed, and serve. 

Note, — If this garnish is required for poultiy, add some 
Bechamel sauce and a gill of cream. 



283. GARNISH OF NEW CARROTS. 

Turn into pear-shape a bunch of new carrots, keeping 
them as much as possible of the same size; blanch for 
tliree or four minutes, strain the water, and put them 
in a saut^-pan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and 
a little sugar; moisten with half a pint of good broth; let 
tlie saute-pan boil, simmer to a nice glaze, taking care to 
ix)ll the carrots in it, and when ready use them t-o garnish 
the intended dish. 






> 

r 

^  



V 

•* 



T 

« 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 131 

284. GARNISH OF TURNIPS. "" 

Peel six turnips, cut or turn them into fancy shapes, 
boil for five minutes in salt water, drain, and when dried 
throw them into a saut^pan with an ounce of butter, 
a pinch of salt, and a small piece of sugar; moisten with 
half a pint of veal broth, let the pan boil, and when nearly 
cooked boil quickly down to a glaze, without letting the 
turnips acquire much colour, and serve as a garnish. 

285. GARNISH OF CUCUMBER. 

Peel two or three cucumbei's ; cut them in slices of the 
thickness of half a crown ; put them in a large dish, sprinkle 
over a tablespoonful of salt, and moisten with vinegar; 
let them remain in this pickle for about two hours; 
after which, strain on a sieve and place in a saut6-pan 
with half an ounce of butter, half a pint of good broth, 
and a piece of sugar; set the pan to simmer gently for 
half an hour, then boil quickly to a glaze ; when well done, 
add half a pint of either Bechamel, Allemande, or Bupr6me 
sauce, as the case may be. 

286. GARNISH OF STEWED PEAS. 

Blanch a quart of new peas for five or six minutes, drain 
and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh 
butter, a little sugar, a pinch of salt, an onion, and a small 
faggot composed of mint and spring onions. Set the 
stewpan, with the cover on, on a moderate fire for the peas 
to stew, and when cooked boil quickly for a few minutes 
in order that they may absorb all their moisture ; then add 
a spoonful of Bdchamel sauce, with a little butter, and dish 
them up with any entrde. 



132 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



287. GARNISH OF ASPARAGUS POINTS. 

Cut the points of as many tisparagus as may be required, 
boil them in salt water and strain through a colander; 
when dried, throw them in a saut^-pan with an ounce of 
butter or a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little sugai*, 
nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of good gravy; toss them 
gently over the fii-e, and sei've. 



288. GARNISH OF BUTTON ONIONS FOR MATELOTTE. 

Peel a pint of button onions ; blanch in salt water for 
five minutes; strain and put them in a saut^-pan with 
two ounces of clarified butter and a little pounded sugar. 
Set the saute-pan on a moderate fire, to fry the onions to 
a light-brown colour, taking care to toss them up now 
and then, that they may be equally coloui^ ; when they 
ai*e nearly done place on a sieve to drain the butter off, 
return them afterwards to a small stewpan with a gill 
of broth, boil on a brisk fire, and reduce to a glaze before 
serving. 



289. GARNISH OF BROAD BEANS. 

Boil till cooked one quart of fresh Windsor beans, peel 
off their skin and place them in a saut^-pan with a pinch 
of pepper, salt, and nutmeg, half an ounce of butter, a 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce, and the same quantity of 
blanched and chopped parsley ; shake and toss the lot well 
together on the fire, and serve in the centre of an entr^. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 133 

290. GARNISH OF FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut a pound of French beans in diamond-shape pieces, 
boil them in salt water, strain, and put in a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper, salt to taste, a spoon- 
ful of white sauce, and a little lemon-juice; toss the lot 
well together on the fire, and serve as above. 

291. GARNISH OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Pick and wash one pint of Brussels sprouts, boil them 
in plenty of salt water till well done, strain and toss in a 
saut^-pan with two ounces of butter, a small pinch of 
pepper, a tablespoon ful of white sauce, a little grated nut- 
meg, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

292. GARNISH OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut the cauliflowers into small heads, dip in salt water 
for half an hour, then blanch them in the usual way ; drain 
and boil in another saucepan with salt and a little butter, 
and moisten with white broth. 

Cauliflowers for garnishing should not be too much 
cooked ; if so, they break in the dishing-up. 

293. GARNISH OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Peel a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, cut in fancy shapes, 
immerse in cold water to wash them well, then strain 
and put them in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, 
half a pint of white broth, a little sugar and salt to taste. 
Boil for about twenty minutes, reduce down to a glaze, 
add a spoonful or two of B^hamel or Allemande sauce, 
toss over the fire well together, and sen'e. 



134 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



294. GARNISH OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Take a pint of white haricot beans that have been soak- 
ing in water the whole of the previous night ; place these 
in a stewpan with two quarts of cold water and a little 
salt; let boil, and simmer gently by the side of the fire 
for about an hour, strain them through a colander, put 
them in a saut^-pan with an ounce of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of white sauce, salt and pepper to taste, the 
juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of blanched and 
chopped parsley ; shake and toss the lot well together on 
the fire, and serva 



296. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and thoroughly cleanse two good Savoy 
cabbages ; cut them in halves and boil them in water for 
fifteen minutes ; immerse them in cold water, then drain 
and dry them with a cloth; after which, cut the stalks 
away, season them with salt and pepper, and tie the two 
halves together with a string ; cover the bottom of a stew- 
pan with six slices of fat bacon, place the cabbages on 
them, with a carrot, an onion stuck with three doves, and 
a ** bouquet garni ; '' moisten with enough broth to cover 
the cabbages, and spread a buttered round of paper over 
the whole; let the stewpan boil, cover the stewpan 
.with the lid, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for 
about an hour ; then drain the cabbages on a sieve, remove 
the string, press the cabbages gently with a dish or board 
so as to make the top flat and enable them to be cut after- 
wards into square, oblong, round, or oval shapes, according 
to fancy or taste, and with them garnish the dish it is 
intended. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 135 

296. GARNISH OF STEWED RED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and quarter a couple of red cabbages, shred 
them as if about to make pickled cabbage, then put about 
four ounces of butter in a stewpan with the cabbages, 
season with salt and pepper, add half a gill of vinegar, 
cover the stewpan with its lid, and set it on a* moderate 
fire to simmer gently. Take care to give it an occasional 
stir with a wooden spoon. When the cabbages have been 
reduced to half their original quantity moisten with half 
a pint of ordinary stock ; if there is any skimming from 
the stock-pot, add it to it ; then let it again simmer for 
an hour ; after which, drain the cabbages on a sieve, press 
them in a clean cloth to extract the butter and fat, and 
use them as a garnish. 

297. GARNISH OF SAUERKRAUT. 

Get two pounds of German sauer- kraut, wash it thoroughly 
in several waters and drain in a colander, then put it in 
a stewpan with one pound of streaky bacon, one quart of 
broth, and one pint of the fat skimmed off the top of tho 
stock-pot, with a pinch of pepper; cover the stewpan with 
its lid, let boil, and simmer for at least four hours — if six. 
all the better — then drain it and serve with the bacon. 1 f 
German sausages can be had, put half a dozen of them witli 
the bacon. 

Note. — Sauer-kraut is better warmed up than when 
freshly cooked, and the more it is cooked the better. 

298. FRENCH SAUERKRAUT. 

Split the white hearts of four cabbages into quarters, 
remove the cores, and shred them very fine; wash them 



136 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

thoroughly in several waters, and drain them well in a 
colander ; when properly dried, put the shred cabbage in 
a good-sized earthenware pan, throw in a good handful of 
salt, about a dozen pepper-corns, and a pint of good French 
vinegar ; toss, with your hands, the cabbage in this, and 
let it remain for four hours ; after which, take out, wash 
it well, and drain properly on a sieve ; then put it in a 
stewpan with half a pound of butter, season with salt and 
pepper, add a gill of good vinegar, a pound of streaky 
bacon cut in slices and laid on the top; moLsten with a 
quart of good broth, cover the lot with a buttered paper, 
and set the stewpan boiling with its lid on, let the contents 
simmer for about three hours, then proceed to strain and 
serve as above. 



299. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES IN GLAZE. 

C*ut about half a pound of truffles into various fancy 
shapes, put these into a small stewpan with an ounce of 
fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a piece of glaze or a gill 
of condensed gravy, or same quantity of No. 4 gravy, 
cover the stewpan with its lid and let it simmer for ten 
minutes, toss the truffles in the stewpan with their own 
glaze, and use them to garnish as required by adding a 
little Supreme or any other sauca 



300. TRUFFLES IN MADEIRA, SHERRY, OR CHAM- 
PAGNE AS A GARNISH. 

Cook the truffles in half a pint of the wine selected for 
five minutes, then proceed as above. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 137 

801. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS. 

Clean, peel, trim and cut away the gritty part near the 
stalk of a pound of fresh mushrooms, which must be 
white, full, and firm, or simply cut away the gritty part an 
above of a pint of tinned mushrooms, put them in a basin 
of cold water, stalks included, rinse well, dry with a 
cloth, and throw them into a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter, a pinch of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of 
broth, boil gently for five or six minutes, then pour the 
mushrooms into a bain-marie containing half a pint of 
Allemande sauce to keep hot till wanted. 

This garnish is proper for all white entries, &c If a 
brown garnish of mushrooms is required, substitute Espag- 
nole sauce for Allemande, and omit the lemon-juice. 



802. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS WITH WINE. 

Mushrooms can also be cooked in wine, in the same 
manner as truffles, and the sauce completed as in No. 301, 
to be used as a white or brown sauca 



808. GARNISH OF COCKS-COMBS. 

Put one pound of cocks-combs in a stewpan with enough 
water to cover them ; set the stewpan on a brisk fire and 
stir with a wooden spoon till the skin begins to rise ; then 
pour in some cold water to stop the boiling of the combs 
and take them out ; strip off the skin and trim the pai*t 
which has been cut from the head, so as to free it of all 
feathers; soak the combs in salted water for six hours; 
after which, immerse them in cold water, which must be 
frequently changed, until they become perfectly white ; 



138 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

then strain off the wntcr, put the combs in a stewpan with 
0. pint and a half of broth, salt to tante and the juice of a 
lemon, boil till cooked, and serve with the sauce require<l. 

Note. — Be careful not to boil the combs after the skin 
rises, otherwise the blood will coagulate and prevent them 
being white. 

S04i GARNISH OF CHICKEN'S LIVXH. 

Trim and throw away the bitter part of four chiclcens' 

livers, leave these whole, and immerse them In boiling 

water ; take them out of the boiling water at once to put 

them in a saucepan with some good beef or chicken gravy, 

a little white wine, a small faggot of thyme and parsley, 

season with salt and pepper to taste ; boil and let 

ner till cooked, when they must be taken out, straineil, 

in slices, and served with their liquor reduced to a nice 



806. GARNISH OF PRAWNS WITH CURRT. 

ick the tails of one pound of goo<l prawns and use 
a as a garnish with three tablespoonfuls of Indian 
« poured over them with or without rice. 



S06. GARNISH OF HUSSELS. 
jrape and wash in several waters the shells of two 
rUi of small mussels (the smallest are the most delicate), 
one quart at a time in a pint of French white wine 
1 an onion sliced, three sprigs of parsley, salt and 
>er to taste. Cover the stewpan, toss the mussels occa- 
ally, and when the shells open the mussels are done ; 
< them out of the stewpan, throw the second quart in, 
boil in the same n 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 139 

The cooking of a quart of mussels at a time is advisable, 
because, in the first instance, a pint of wine is saved, 
and the mussels are done more evenly than they wouhl if 
they were all cooked in the pan at once. Be also careful in 
not letting them cook after the shells open, as they will 
only harden and shrink. 

When both quarts of mussels are cooked, take them out 
of the shells with a pointed knife and serve them with a 
white sauce made hot. 



307. SALPICON A LITALIENNE. 

Chop fine two sweetbreads, one pound of fresh mushrooms, 
and half a pound of cooked ham free from gristle and fat, 
then mix this compound well together, with half a pint of 
Financi^re sauce. 

Salpicon is the culinary name for a mixture of cooked 
chicken, game, tongue, or fish with truffles, mushrooms, 
and " foie-gras," the whole cut in small dice, and served 
hot, either in patties, small bouch^es, or made into cro- 
quettes. 

808. SALPICON A LA PALERME. 

Mix with half a pint of hot Napolitaine sauce a quarter 
of a pound of cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, the 
breast of a cooked partridge, two or three cocks-combs, the 
hearts of four cooked artichokes, and two ounces of cooked 
ham all chopped fine and well mixed together. 



809. SALPICON A LA ROTALE. 

Mix well together, in equal parts, after being chopped 
fine, some foie-gras, chicken meat, mushrooms, sweetbreads, 



J 



I40 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

a little crayfish or lobster butter, and the necessary 
B^hamel sauce, which must be boiling at the time of 
mixing. 

810. SALPICON A LA FINANClilRE. 

Chop fine two trufiles, the breast of a cooked chicken, 
two ounces of cooked pickled tongue, and four ounces of 
fresh mushrooms; then mix with Financi^re sauce, and 
boil for a few minutes. 



811. SALPICON A LA TOULOUSE. 

Mix in equal parts, with half a pint of hot Yelout^ sauce, 
some chicken and goose livers, mushrooms, and cocks-combs 
all chopped fine. 



812. SALPICON A LA CHASSEUR. 

Mix witli a salmi sauce the fillets of any game cut in 
small dice. 

813. SALPICON OF OYSTERS. 

Blanch the oysters for a few minutes, drain, and pre- 
pare in the usual way ; cut them in two and mix with a 
reduced Yelout^ sauce ; add a few spoonfuls of the liquor 
in which they were cooked, and the juice of a lemon. 



814^ SALPICON OF LOBSTER OR CRAB. 

Cut either the cooked lobster or crab in small dice; 
add these to a Bechamel or Yelout^ sauce with a little 
lobster butter; season slightly with pepper, and mix well 
with a few chopped mushrooms. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 141 

315. SALPICON A LA M0N6LAS. 

Mix with a reduced Velouto or Espagnole sauce the 
breast of a chicken, chopped up with truffles. 



816. SALPICON VALENCIENNES. 

Prepare a mixture of hearts of artichokes, mushrooms, 
the breaijt of a chicken, one carrot, the tails of two dozen 
prawns, or pai't of the tail of a lobster, all cooked ; add four 
tablespoonfuls of cooked rice; chop the lot fine, and mix 
with a Velouto sauce and a little cayenne butter. 



Observation with respect to French Words in 

Bills of Fare. 

I may say here, without prejudice, that I find the greatest 
difficulty in ti-anslating certain culinary names into English. 
Although my object is to be understood by all classes, I 
am often compelled to use original French words, being in 
many instances quite at a loss to express their proper 
meaning in English. This matter of using French names 
in '^ bills of fare" has often been discussed, and as it is 
still a subject of controveray in the culinaiy world, I simply 
give my reason for the practice I have adopted. 



144 PRAGTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

frying purposes, which will be about 385° Fahrenheit. A 
too high temperatui-e must be avoided, which will be in- 
dicated by smoke rising from the kettle ; in that case the 
articles fried would be blackened and burnt ; on the other 
hand, if the fat has not reached the proper temperature 
the things intended for frying will be soaked through with 
fat, soddened, greasy, and of a dirty pale colour, but not 
fried. 

Properly fried things should be of a golden colour, 
crisp, and free from fat ; to obtain the latter, fried articles 
should be put on a clean cloth as they are taken out of the 
frying-kettle, and then turned over. 

Frying is most successful when a small quantity is put 
at a time, otherwise the reaction of too many cold things 
will cause the fat fall below the necessary temperature and 
spoil the frying process. All articles to be fried should be 
properly dried between the folds of a clean cloth and passed 
through a mixture of breadings (if batter is not used) 
beforehand. 



817. BATTER PASTE FOR FRYING. 

Batter is a thin paste often required for frying fish| 
meat, vegetables, and fruit. 

Put half a pound of white sifted flour into a basin with 
a little salt, white pepper, the yolks of two eggs (save the 
whites), a spoonful of vinegar or the juice of a lemon, and 
half a gill of olive-oil ; work the whole into a double ci'eamy 
paste, adding in, a spoonful at a time, about half a pint of 
cold water ; when properly worked let it stand by. Mean- 
while whisk well the two whites of egg set apart, and mix 
with the batter a few minutes before it is wanted. 

For fritters, white wine or beer can be substituted for 
water, and add a little pounded cinnamon. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 145 



Eemarks on Hors-d'CEuvres or Side Dishes. 

Hors-d'oeuvres, or side dishes, are tasty dainties, the 
object of which is to stimulate and sharpen the appetite, 
and they are served and eaten either before or after the 
soup. These are divided into two parts, the cold and hot 
hors-d'oeuvres ; the former are usually prepared and dished 
up in small oval dishes, decorated with parsley and put 
on the table by the butler ; but in smaller establishments 
where the duties of that office are discharged by female 
servants it invariably falls upon the cook to dress up these 
decorative dishes, which generally consist of salami, a kind 
of raw Italian or Lyons sausage, fresh butter, slices of ham, 
sardines, tunny-fish, anchovies, radishes, olives, gherkins, 
smoked herrings or salmon, melon, foie-gras, caviare, 
oysters, Szc, &c. 

The hot hors-d'oeuvres are very numerous and far more 
complicated than the cold ones, the majority of which are 
more substantial, and in many instances differ but slightly 
from " entries." These are serve<l directly after the soup, 
and are composed of many items, such as patties and 
bouchces of all description, croustades, coquilles, rissoles, 
croquets, cromeskis, mixed fritters, such as brains, liver, 
sweetbread, scollops, <kc., &c. 



818. PATTIES WITH ANT SALPICON OR FORCEMEAT. 

Patties and bouchees are made out of puff paste, and the 
following is the proper mode of making them : — 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the pastry slab ; make 
a well in the centre of the flour, and pour in it one gill 
and a half of cold water, with half an ounce of salt and 



146 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the yolk of an egg. Mix these gradually with the flour, 
and when done, and the paste is about half-mixed, sprinkle 
in another gill of water, mix all the flour and work it to 
a smooth paste until it ceases to adhere to the slab or 
hands ; then roll it out to a round piece. Now take one 
pound bf butter, put it in a clean cloth and press it, to 
extract any milk or water it may contain ; lay the butter 
on the paste, flatten both to a thickness of about two 
inches, then fold the four sides of the paste to the centre 
to enclose the butter and form a square piece. Next take 
a rolling-pin, roll the paste with it to about the length 
of three feet, fold over one-third of the length, and fold 
the other third over this. 

This is called ''giving one turn,'' and as it constantly 
recurs in all recipes for making pastry, I deem it advisable 
to give its meaning. 

Let the paste rest for ten minutes on the slab in a cool 
place, then give it two turns ; ten minutes after, two turns 
more ; and five minutes after this, another turn, making 
in all six tuma Then roll" it out to about a quarter of 
an inch thick. Take a one and three-quarter inch paste- 
cutter, cut the paste with it into twenty-four rounds; 
gather the trimmings into a lump, and roll it out to the 
same thickness as the first; cut it also into twenty-four 
similar rounds, place these on a wet baking sheet, moisten 
the surface with a brush dipped in water, and put a small 
quantity of salpicon or forcemeat, previously made, on 
each ; then take up one of the firat cut rounds and reverse 
it on to the forcemeat, so as to cover it; repeat this till 
all the patties are covered, press the two pieces of paste 
lightly together with the top of a plain inch and a quaHcr 
cutter, brush them over with the yolk of two eggs well 
beaten, put them to bake in a brisk oven till they have 
reached a nice golden colour, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 147 

819. BOUCH^ES A LITAUENNE. 

Make two poands of puff paste in the manner described 
in the previous number, but give it seven turns, wetting 
the last turn before folding it ; then roll the paste out so 
as to leave it scarcely a quarter of an inch thick, and about 
three minutes afterwards take a two-inch fluted circular 
tin cutter, and with it cut the paste into bouch^; but 
previously to cutting out each bouch^ the cutter should 
be first dipped in very hot water. As soon as the bouch^es 
are cut out place them immediately in rows, two inches 
apart, on a baking sheet, previously wetted; then egg 
them carefully all over with a soft brush dipped in beaten 
eggs, and stamp them in the centre by making a slight 
incision through their surface with a plain inch and a half 
circular cutter, which must also be dipped in hot water 
each time it is used. The bouch^es should then be quickly 
put in the oven and baked of a light colour; when done 
remove the covers or tops, pick out the inner crumb care- 
fully with the point of a small knife, then fill up each 
bouchfe with a salpicon k Tltalienne, previously made hot, 
replace the covers at the top, and serve dished up on a 
folded napkin* 

820. BOUCHI^ES A LA PALERME. 

Prepare the bouch^ as in No. 319, and fill them up 
afterwards with a salpicon k la Palermo. 

821. BOUCH^ES A LA ROTALE. 

Proceed with the bouch^es as described in No. 319, 
then fill them up with a salpicon k la Royale previously 
made hot. 



148 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

322. 

Bouch^es k la Financier, k la Toulouse, a la Chasseur, 
with oysters, lobsters, crabs, k la Monglas, and k la 
YalencieDnes are all made in the same manner. 

823. CROUSTADES A LA TOULOUSE. 

Make a paste with one pound of sifted flour, a pound of- 
butter, the jolks of two beaten eggs, and a pinch of salt, 
and mix these with about half a pint of water to a softish 
paste. When quite smooth gather it up in a lump, and 
let it rest on the ice for an hour ; after which, roll it out 
to the sixteenth of an inch thick, and line eighteen small 
croustade moulds with it; fill these with flour and bake 
them ; when the paste is done, and has attained a nice 
straw-colour, take them out of the oven, turn the flour out, 
brush the inside of the croustades with a brush, and put 
them in the oven for two minutes longer to colour ; then 
fill them with a salpicon k la Toulouse, pour a little Yelout^ 
.sauce over each, and place some puff-paste covers on each 
top, previously made with " seven turns " paste, rolled to 
n quarter of an inch thick, cut with a two-inch fluted cutter, 
and baked as before. 

Croustades, according to taste, can be varied with any 
salpicon. 

324. COQUILLES A LA CHASSEUR. 

The natural shells of scallops, if kept clean, are not 
objectionable for this hors d'cDuvre, but the silver shells or 
coquilles, as they ai-e called, are to be preferred. 

Fill the number of shells required with the salpicon 
k la Chasseur, sprinkle the tops with fried bread-crumbs, 
put them into the oven to warm, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 149 

Proceed in the same way with any other sort of coquilles, 
and if you have any iish left from the previoius day's 
dinner, bone it, cut it in small dice, and mix with a little 
butter, the juice of a lemon, salt to taste, a little Yelout^ 
sauce and essence of mushrooms, fill the shells with this 
mixture, strew fried bread-crumbs over the tops, set them 
in the oven to warm and brown, before sendng. 



826. RISSOLES OF CHICKEN. 

Boll out some *' six turns '' puff paste to a quarter inch 
thickness, cut out some rounds with a fluted three -inch 
cutter, lay some chicken forcemeat the size of a walnut on 
each round, place a round of paste over each forcemeat, 
till they are all covered, and press the edges so as to stick 
them together. 

Set the fryiug-kettle on the fire, and when the fat is of 
the right temperature fry the lissoles in it ; then drain and 
dress them on a dish, on a folded napkin, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

Any other forcemeat or salpicon can be turned into 
rissoles by the same process. 



826. CROQUETS OF LOBSTER. 

Make some salpicon of lobster and lay flat with a knife 
on a board, previously strewed with bread-crumbs ; then 
divide the mixture in equal-sized parts and roll them with 
the hand to the shape of a cork ; pass them afterwards in 
breadings, and then in the bread-crumbs. 

Set the frying-kettle on the fire ; when the fat is hot 
enough, fiy them till they are crisp and of a light-brown 
colour ; drain on a cloth in the usual way ; sprinkle each 



150 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with a little salt, put them on a napkin on a dish, and 
garnish with a little fried parsley before serving. 

Perigueuz or Tomato sauce is generally served with 
croquets. 

Whatever kind of croquets may be wished for or re- 
quired, their process is always the same. 



827. CROMESKIS A LA RUSSE. 

Chop up the fillets of a roast fowl into very small dice, 
and put them on a plate with half their quantity of mush- 
rooms and truffles also chopped fine; stir half a pint of 
Bechamel or Allemande sauce over the fire until stiffly 
reduced, then throw in the minced chicken mushrooms and 
tiniffles ; mix the lot well together, then spread it out about 
an inch thick on a dish and let it cool ; after which, cut the 
mixture into pieces about the size of two walnuts, form 
these into egg-shapes, and place them on a dish. Mean- 
while have ready a calf s udder, previously braized for the 
purpose, and cut when cold into very thin layers, just large 
enough to wrap each cromeski with ; then dip them in some 
light batter paste, and fry them crLsp, and to a nice golden 
colour, in plenty of lard, heated to the right temperature 
for the purpose; dish them up with fried parsley and 
serve hot. 

Note, — Cromeskis can be made in the same manner with 
any other salpicon. 



Mode of Preparing Sweetbread, Brains, Liver, and 
Scollops of Veal before Cooking theh. 

Whatever style of serving siceethread may be contem- 
plated, they must always be soaked in water for at least 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 151 

three hours, taking care to change the water occasionallj ; 
after which, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold 
water, set the saucepan on the fire to hoil, and as soon as 
they become firm and round, without, however, being hard, 
draw the saucepan away from the fire, immerse them in 
cold water, then drain on a cloth and press them between 
two boards or baking tins, with a four or five pound-weight 
on the top. 

Brairis must steep in cold water for about an hour, 
during which time the water must be changed twice, then 
pick out most carefully all skinny particles from the 
surface of the brains. Blanch them in boiling water for 
five minutes and immerse them in cold. 

Ldver must be of a bright pinkish colour and entirely 
free from whitish spots. Wash and wipe the quantity of 
liver required, then cut it into scollops or slices of about 
a quarter of an inch thick, and roll them in flour before 
frying. 

Scollops are generally cut off from the cushion of leg of 
veal, previously freed from gristle, fat, and skin ; they are 
cut in the same style and thickness as the liver, and should 
be flattened with the chopper or cutlet bat, dipped in water, 
before frying. 

328. SWEETBREAD AND BRAINS FRIED A 

LTTALIENNE 

Take two sweetbreads and two brains, prepared as indi- 
cated above, and cut each in scollops of about an inch thick. 
Mix well in a dish, a gill of good oil, half a gill of vinegar, 
and a pinch of salt ; soak the scollops in it for about half 
an hour, then take them out and dip in some batter 
paste, previously made for this purpose, and drop them 
separately into the frying fat properly heated, and with 
a flat skimmer toss up each scollop gently till they become 



152 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of a golden colour and crisp; then take them out, and 
place on a clean cloth which will absorb all the fat; 
sprinkle some salt on each, dress them on a napkin on 
a dish by placing alternately one brain scollop and one 
sweetbread, decoi*ate with a little fried parsley, and serve 
as hot as possible. 



329. ANOTHER FRIED SWEETBREAD, BRAIN AND 

LIVER (ITALIAN). 

Cut in the same manner as above one sweetbread and 
two brains, after having soaked and blanched them ajs pre- 
scribed; cut also half a pound of liver in scollops; pass 
each in breadings and bread-crumbs. Put a quarter of a 
pound of clarified butter in a frying-pan on the fire, fry 
the scollops in it to a light-brown colour, then di-ain and 
dry them on a cloth, squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
them, sprinkle each with salt to taste, dish them Up 
alternately on a hot dish, and serve. 



330. BRAINS FRIED (CITIZEN STYLE). 

Prepare four brains in the usual way; after which, cut 
them in slices of about half an inch thick. Beat the yolks 
of six eggs in a basin, and mix with an ounce of grated 
cheese, half an ounce of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, and 
a little pepper; whisk the whites of the six eggs to a snow 
fix)tL Put a quarter of a pound of clarified butter into 
a large frying-pan on the fire, mix gently the whites of the 
eggs with the yolks, and draw the pan away from the fire 
when the butter is melted. Put the whole of the mixtui-e, 
a spoonful at a time, properly detached from each other, in 
the frying-pan ; lay well imbedded in the centre of each 
spoonful of the egg-mixture a slice of brains; set the pan 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 153 

on the fire to fry for three minutes, then turn each com- 
pound over and fry them for another three minutes ; when 
of a nice golden colour on both sides, dish them with the 
side of the brain up, sprinkle each with a little salt, and 
sei*ve very hot 

Note. — Any kind of cooked meat, poultry, or game can be 
mixed with the eggs as well as the brains. A little minced 
parsley and garlic mixed with the eggs will give a good 
taste to the above items. 



SSL SWEETBREAD OR BRAINS FRIED (MILANAISE 

STYLE). 

Cut either the sweetbread or brains, after having been 
duly blanched, as in No. 330. Beat six eggs in a basin with 
a little finely chopped parsley and the clove of a garlic; 
season with salt and pepper, when well beaten together 
dip the slices in it, and roll them afterwaixls in bread- 
crumbs, and form them in oval or i-ound shapes. Put a 
quarter of a pound of clarified butter into a frying-pan, and 
when dissolved fry on a moderate fii-e, taking care to turn 
them over so as to give each side a nice golden colour, 
when they are cooked, and must be served hot. 

8S2. LIVER FRIED A LA MILANAISE. 

Take two pounds of calfs liver, cut it in scollops as 
described, pass these in breadings and bread-crumbs, then 
fry them in a frying-pan with a quarter of a pound of 
clarified butter on a moderate fii'e, turn the pieces over 
to give them a nice bronzed colour on both sides, and when 
tender to the touch sprinkle some salt and a teajspoonful 
of chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and 
serve. 



154 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

833. LIVER FRIED A LA PALERMO. 

Scollop two pounds of calf's liver as No. 332, and flour 
them, then fry in the same manner as in the foregoing, and 
dress them on a hot dish. Leave the frying-pan by the 
side of the Are; chop very fine six fresh mushrooms, a 
little parsley, and a clove of garlic ; put these in the frying- 
pan with a glass of French white wine and a gill of good 
broth ; season with salt and pepper, boil for five minutes, 
then add the juice of a lemon, stir nicely, pour the sauce 
over the liver, and serve. 

The liver of sheep, chickens, lambs, and pigs can also be 
fried and garnished in the same way, but substitute a little 
vinegar for wina 



334. VEAX SCOLLOPS FRIED A LA GENOISE. 

Take two pounds of leg of veal, free from skin, fat, 
and gristle, cut in scollops and fry them in the same 
manner as in No. 333, but substitute oil for butter; after 
which, prepare a similar mixture for the sauce, and serve. 

Scollops of mutton, beef, and pork can also be fried, and 
served with a similar sauce. 



335. OYSTERS FRIED. 

Blanch two dozen large oysters, press them lightly 
between two dishes till they are cold ; then slit them open, 
without quite severing them, dip in frying batter, and fry 
in hot fat ; drain and pile on a napkin on a dish garnished 
with fried parsley, and serve with Tomato sauce in a boat 
apart 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 155 



886. FRIED ANCHOVIES. 

Steep two dozen anchovies in cold water for about two 
hours, or till they ai*e easily opened, and bone them; 
wipe off the scales, by rubbing them with a coarse cloth ; 
trim the anchovy fillets to an even shape and steep in 
milk for an hour, di'ain, wipe, and pass them tlirough the 
breadings ; then fry in very hot fat, drain, and pile tliem 
up on a napkin on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve with two lemons cut in quarters. 



CHAPTER VII. 

REMARKS ON TRIPE. 

Tripe is a delicious dish when prepared properly, but it 
must always be cleaned, sci*aped, and boiled in plenty of 
water for sevei-al hours before any attempt at cookiug 
it can ever be contemplated. This of course only applies to 
country places, where tripe can only be liad in its raw state, 
but in towns it can always be bought ready blanched. 



887. TRIPE MILLANAISE. 

Shred fine a carrot, an onion, and one head of celery ; 

fry these in a stewpan with two ounces of butter; when 

nicely browned moisten them with half a pint of broth, 

add a '^ bouquet garni '^ composed of sage, thyme, and a 

bay-leaf, simmer gently for half an hour; then rub the ' 

lot through a sieve, throw the bouquet away, and return "i 

the sauce to the stewpan, with one pound and a half of 

tripe, previously shred in pieces about two inches long by 

half an inch wide; add a good rasher of streaky bacon 

or a slice of gammon cut in small dice, season with salt 

nnd pepper, moisten the lot with a pint of broth, and let 

it simmer for half an hour ; stir occasionally with a wooden 

spoon, then add a ladleful of Espagnole sauce, stir, and 

when boiling serve on a hot dish, with grated cheese on a . 

plate apart. 

X56 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 157 

838. TRIPE A LA ROHAINE. 

Take one pound and a half of cleaned and blanched tripe, 
cut it in about two-inch squares ; put these in a sauce- 
pan with a pint and a half of good gravy or condensed 
broth, season with salt and pepper, add a bay- leaf, and let 
simmer for three-quarters of an hour on a slow fire, give 
it an occasional stir, and serve on a hot dish with grated 
cheese apart 

889. TRIPE A LITALIENNE. 

Proceed in the same manner as for the Milannise. 
Peel two tomatoes ; squeeze out the water and rub them 
through a sieve ; add this pur^e to the tripe at the same 
time as the broth, and let it simmer for half an hour ; 
then pour in half a pint of green peas, a few fresh mush- 
rooms cut in slices, season with salt and pepper, simmer 
again for twenty minutes, stir occasionally, and serve with 
grated cheese apart. 



340. TRIPE (CITIZEN STYLE). 

Pry in a stewpan with two ounces of butter one onion 
shred fine, a clove of garlic chopped very fine, and a slice 
of gammon cut in small dice; when these are properly 
browned sprinkle over three tablespoonfuls of fiour, stir 
with a wooden spoon, and fry for two or three minutes 
longer; then add one pint of broth, same quantity of 
French white wine, a small " bouquet garni," and two 
pounds of tripe cut in slices, as in the Milanaise. Boil, 
stir nicely, add salt and pepper to taste, cover the stewpan 
and let it simmer for an hour, giving it an occasional stir 
to prevent burning; then take out the "bouquet garni," 



IS8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

sprinkle two handfuls of grated cheese over the con tents, 
stir it well, and serve on a hot dish with a little more grated 
cheese sprinkled on the top of it. 

One or two calves' feet properly boiled and boned will 
improve this dish if added at the same time as the tripe. 

341. TRIPE A LA LTONNAISE. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a frying-pan, add three 
onions shred fine, and when beginning to brown put with 
it one pound and a half of tripe, cut as in No. 340; stir 
with a wooden spoon, fry for about twenty minutes, season 
with salt and pepper, and just before serving sprinkle a 
little finely chopped parsley with a few drops of French 
vinegar ; stir well, and serve on a hot dish. 

This tripe when cooked should be crisp and of a light- 
brown colour. 

842. TRIPE AND ONIONS. 

Cook six onions in salt water; when done squeeze the 
water out of them and chop them fine. Meantime boil one 
pound and a half of tripe (cut as in the foregoing) in a pint 
and a half of fresh milk, and after an hour's ebullition, 
having given it an occasional stir to prevent the tripe 
burning, mix the onions with it, season with salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg, boil, stir, and serve. 

84a ANOTHER TRIPE AND ONIONS. 

Proceed as above, but instead of milk use veal broth. ^ 

844. TRIPE FRIED. 

Shred in the same shape as in the foregoing two pounds 
of tripe, dip these in frying batter and fry afterwards in 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 159 

fat, properly heated for the purpose. When crisp and of a 
nice light-hrown colour, drain and serve on a hot dish, with 
a little tomato sauce in a sauce-boat apart. 



845. SHEEP'S KIDNEYS GRILLED. 

Slit the kidneys lengthwise, without cutting through the 
sinew, remove the thin skin which covers them, and run 
them on a small skewer (two on each), then sprinkle with 
a little salt and pepper ; place these on a grid- iron over a 
clear fire with the open side downwards. When done brown 
turn them over, and let them remain three minutes longer ; 
after which, put them on a hot dish, draw the skewer 
away, and lay on each kidney a little cold mattre d'h6tel or 
cayenne butter, and serva 



846. SHEEFS KIDNEYS STEWED WITH FINE HERBS. 

Split the kidneys as before directed, cut them into thin 
scollops, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and fiy 
them brown in a frying-pan with a little butter ; then add 
a tablespoonful each of chopped mushrooms and parsley, 
and two shalots also chopped fine ; let the lot fry for a few 
minutes longer; after which, sprinkle a tablespoonful of 
flour and moisten with a glass of sherry ; let this simmer 
for three minutes, then add two or three spoonfuls of brown 
broth or gravy, simmer another &ve minutes, squeeze the 
juice of a lemon, toss it up and mix well together, draw 
the frying-pan away from the fire, form a border of mashed 
potatoes on a dish, pour the kidneys in the centre, and 
serve. 



i6o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

347. SHEEP'S KIDNEYS STEWED A LA CLEREMONT. 

Scollop and fry the kidney as in No. 346, and when 
nicely browned draw the frying-pan by the side of the 
fire. Meanwhile shred two onions and fry them in a stew- 
pan, with two ounces of butter, to a fine yellow colour; 
drain off the butter, add a pinch of pepper, a few spoon- 
fuls of good broth, and a little Espagnole sauce ; boil ; skim, 
and let simmer till properly reduced ; then mix it with the 
kidneys, stir nicely with a wooden spoon, simmer for 
three or four minutes, and serve with a border of potato 
croquets. 

S48. VEAL KIDNEYS STEWED A LA ROMAINE. 

Cut a veal kidney in half, remove the fat part and slice 
the pieces very thin. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter 
well in a frying-pan on a brisk fire, fry the pieces of 
kidney in it, when about hnlf-cooked add an onion and 
a little parsley chopped very fine, sprinkle over, a table- 
spoonful of flour, season with salt and pepper, continue 
the fi*}nng for a few minutes longer, then add a glass of 
white wine, let simmer for a few minutes, and just before 
serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and toss the 
contents well, and serve with a puree of vegetablea 

349. VEAL KIDNEYS BROILED A LA LINDIENNE. 

Cut lengthwise a veal kidney in two, flatten these slightly 
with the bat, season with salt and pepper, dip each piece 
in oil, roll them afterwards in bread-crumbs, and broil four 
minutes each side, on a good fire. Meanwhile prepare a 
curry butter, garnish the brim of a dish round with plain 
boiled rice, place the kidneys in the centre, put the curry 
butter on it, and serve hot. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. i6i 



260. BEEF KIDNEY A LA PIEMONTAISE. 

Cut a beef kidney in two, trim it in the usual way, and 
slice it iu thin scollops, season with salt and pepper, dip 
the scollops in batter, and fry with butter till of a brown 
colour; then serve with a garnish of fried pai-sley and 
tomato sauce in a boat apart. 



851. SHEEFS TONGUES WITH SPINACH. 

Take six fresh sheep^s tongues; blanch them for five 
minutes, to enable the white skin to be removed ; then 
trim and put them in a saut^pan with about a pint of 
broth, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, season with salt and 
pepper; set the saut6-pan on the fire to the boil, and let 
simmer until the tongues are well cooked and nicely glazed ; 
then take them out, cut them lengthways in halves and 
return them to the saut^-pan. Meantime dish some puree 
of spinach, previously made for this purpose ; decorate the 
dish with fried croutons, place the pieces of tongue over 
the spinach nicely arranged, poui' the i*emainder of the 
glaze over them, and serve. 



852. SHEEP'S TONGUES WITH GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Blanch, trim, cook, and dish up six sheep's tongues, as 
in No. 351, then pour some Gherkin sauce (No. 192) in 
the centre, and serve. 



858. SHEEP'S TONGUES A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Braize and trim the tongues as above, and when cut 
in halves let them get cold, then pass them through the 



l62 PR-\CTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

breadings, flattea them nicely with the blade id a knife 
and fry them in fat, pioperiy heated tor the |mrpo6e ; drain 
in the usual way, and dish them up in the form of a dofie 
drde, the centre of which must be filled with macaroni 
(Na 8S), and serve. 



354w SHEEFS FEET, WITH OIL AND YIHEGAIL 

Chop very fine about two ounces of beef suet, and melt 
it in a saucepan over the fire, and when dear add two 
ounces of flour, two quarts of water, one onion sliced, 
a " bouquet garni," two cloves, a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and a little salt and pepper; stir the lot over the fire, 
and when boiling drop in it eight sheep's feet, previously 
blanched, cleaned, and trimmed ; let them boil for about 
three hours and a half, when they should be done, and 
tender ; then strain, and put them on a dish with a sauce 
made in the following manner: — Put in a basin a gill 
of oil, half a gill of French vinegar, a teaspoon ful of salt, 
a good pinch of pepper, half a tablespoonfid each of finely 
chopped parsley and onion, beat the lot well together 
before pouring it over the cooked feet, and serva 

Sheep's feet can also be served with a Sharp, Poulette, or 
any other sauce. 



855. CALFS HEAD TOMATO SAUCE. 

Select, according to the size required, a white calf's head, 
cut it in two, dip these into boiling water to clean the ears 
out, then bone them entirely, cut the tongue out, and put 
the brains to steep in cold water ; soak the head and tongue 
for a little while also in cold water, then blanch both in 
boiling water for ten minutes ; strain, and take off the white 
skin from the tongue ; put the two halves and tongue in a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. i6^ 

clean clotb, with two or three slices of gammon, two sliced 
onions, one shred carrot, one bay-leaf, and a few slices of 
lemon, fold these together, and put the bundle into a large 
saucepan with enough cold water to cover it well ; season 
with salt, add a ** bouquet garni," an onion with three 
cloves stuck in, and one head of celery. Let the saucepan 
boil, and then simmer for about three hours ; after which, 
take the cloth out, stretch the tongue so as to give it its 
original shape, cut each half in four, keep the ears in 
square pieces, wipe the inside of these nicely with a cloth, 
and slit them with a pointed knife into narrow strips, 
taking care not to run the knife through the ends, but 
merely from the inner part to within half an inch of the 
point, so that when the ear is turned down it will present 
the appearance of a looped frill. Now cut the tongue in 
half, lengthways, without separating it altogether, dress 
these on an oval dish on a napkin, with the ears at each 
end and the pieces of head in the centre, decorate with 
green parsley, and serve with a pint of tomato sauce in 
a boat apart. 

Calf's head can be served with oil and vinegar as for the 
sheep's feet (No. 354)1 in which case add a tablespoonful of 
capers and two very thinly sliced gherkins, and four hard- 
boiled eggs cut in two. It can also be served with Italian, 
Sharp, Bavigote, or Devilled sauce. 

Note, — It is customary in this country to serve a piece 
of boiled streaky bacon with the calf's head. Of this I 
do not approve ; neither can I recommend the parsley and 
butter sauce served with it^ which is far too insipid. 



856. CALF'S FEET FRIED, ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Eemove the large bone of four calf's feet, cut them in 
halves, blanch for ten minutes, then boil for about two 



i64 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

hours and a half in a liquor made as for the sheep's feet ; 
when done bone them, cut each in four, dip these pieces 
in a batter paste and fry in hot fat, in the usual way; 
then serve the pieces dished up with some Italian sauce 
apart. 

Calf's feet can also be served k la poulette ; in that case, 
when they are done, do not fry them, but warm about one 
pint of Poulette sauce, and mix the pieces with it, and serve. 

They can also be cut in halves, cooked as in the fore- 
going, bread-crumbed, and broiled on a slow fire, and served 
with a Tartare sauce apart. 



857. OX-PALATE FRIED. 

Blanch in boiling salt water for ten minutes four ox- 
palates ; drain, cool and scrape to remove the white skin ; 
when properly trimmed put them in a saucepan with one 
quart of broth, two slices of gatnmon, and a "bouquet 
garni ; " let them boil gently for about three hours ; then 
drain the palates on a sieve and let them get cold. In 
the meantime put a quart of Yelout^ sauce in a stewpan 
on the fire and reduce it to half its original quantity by 
sharp boiling, then add the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, 
scraped into crumbs, a tablespoonf ul of parsley previously 
blanched and chopped very fine, salt and pepper to taste, 
the juice of a lemon, and an ounce of butter; mix these 
well together, then draw the stewpan away from the fire. 

Take the ox-palates and split them in halves length- 
ways ; each of these must be cut across again in two and 
placed on a large dish or board; put with a spoon the 
mixture prepared in the stewpan, properly divided on 
each of the pieces of palate ; roll them up in the form of 
cartridges, pass them afterwards in the breadings, and a 
few minutes before serving fry them in the frying-kettle 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 165 

with the fat previously heated very hot for the purpose. 
If the fat is not very hot, the cartridges will open and 
separate from the stuffing. Dish them up nicely and serve 
with a little fried parsley. 

Ox-palates can also be served with an Italian, Sharp, 
Tomato, or curry sauce. 



868. OXCHEEK WITH PUR^E OF VEOETABLE. 

Bone an ox-cheek, immerse it in cold water for about an 
hour, blanch in the usual way for five minutes, and dip 
in cold water ; then drain and trim it ; put it afterwards 
in a large stewpan with the bones at the bottom, add the 
same sorts and quantity of vegetables as for a soup, together 
with a " bouquet garni," two quarts of water, and a table- 
spoonful of salt ; boil and let simmer for two hours ; after 
which, take the cheek up very carefully with a flat skimmer 
and press it between two dishes ; strain the broth through 
a fine sieve; remove the half of it to a cool place to be 
used later on for brown sauces, &c, and boil down the 
other half to a half-glaze. Meanwhile cut up the ox-cheek 
in small pieces of equal size, place them in a saut^-pan 
with the half-glaze, cover the pan with its lid, and simmer 
for about ten minutes ; roll the pieces nicely in their glaze, 
dish them up in a circle, fill the centre with a pur^e of 
vegetable, pour the glaze over, and serve. 



869. OX-CHEEK A LITALIENNE. 

Prepare an ox- cheek in the same manner as in the 
previous number, but instead of a pur^e of vegetable as 
a garnish, use some ripe tomatoes au gratin, as a border, 
and pour a little Italian sauce in the centre before serving. 



i66 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

860. FRESH OX-TONOUE WITH GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Immerse a fresh ox-tongae in boiling water for a few 
minutes, to enable the white skin to be removed by 
scraping ; then lard it with a small larding-needle in the 
following manner : — ^Trim about half a pound of fresh fat 
bacon two inches long by about three wide, cut this in 
strips a quarter of an inch thick, soak them for an hour in 
a pint of white wine, properly seasoned with salt and 
pepper and a little chopped parsley. 

After having wiped the shreds of bacon and larded the 
tongue with them, place this in a saucepan with four 
quarto of cold water, two rashers of bacon, an onion and 
a carrot nicely shred, together with a bay-leaf, a little 
thyme, three cloves, a teaspoonful of salt, and two pinches 
of pepper. Set the saucepan boiling and simmer for about 
three hours and a half (if the tongue is a large one), then 
ascertain whether it is cooked. When done, take it off 
the fire and dish it up with Gherkin sauce (No. 192) and 
serve. Ox-tongue cooked in this way can also be served 
with Sharp, Itelian, or Tomato sauce ; you can also omit 
the larding and serve it with a pur^ of spinach, mac^doinCi 
or any vegetable that may be in season. 

861. PICKLED OXTONGUE. MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Get a good pickled ox-tongue from your butoher, wash 
it in two or three cold waters, put it in a saucepan on the 
fire with four quarto of cold water; let it boil gently for 
about three hours, when it must be drawn from the fire, 
but leave the tongue in ito liquor. Meanwhile put three 
tablespoonfids of Espagnole sauce in a small stewpan with 
a piece of glaze as big as a walnut, and half a pint of 
Marsala, Madeira, or sherry, a little salt, pepper, and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 167 

grated nutmeg. Boil it, stir it well with a wooden spoon, 
and reduce it one -third by sharp boiling. Meantime take 
the tongue out of its liquor, trim it and remove the white 
skin, put the tongue back into the saucepan on the fire to 
warm it up. When boiling dish it up, pour the sauce 
over it, and serve with a pur^e of potatoes apart, or any 
other vegetable puree. 

If the pickled ox-tongue is to be served cold, cook it in 
the fame way, and leave it in its liquor for ten minutes 
before trimming ; and when still hot pin it on a board in 
the larder, so as to give it a round shape, and let it get 
cold, then glaze it in the following manner : — 

362. TO GLAZE COLD HEAT. 

Put some glaze into a small earthenware pot; put this 
in a saucepan two-thirds full of warm w^ater ; set tlie sauce- 
pan on the fire to bring the water gradually till it boils. 
When the glaze is well dissolved see that the tongue is 
well dried ; then with a brush varnish the surface, evenly 
and smoothly, and when cold lay on another coat, also .1 
third if necessary ; but let it be well understood that the 
glazing has not for object the hiding of the article glazed, 
but to give it only a polished and transparent appearance, 
in the same way as a polished piece of furniture, which in 
either case is always pleasing to the eye. 

868. SWEETBREADS LARDED A LA MACEDOINE. 

Soak and blanch two sweetbreads, as described in Hot 
Hors-d'GSuvres, drain and press them between two dishes 
until cold, after which lard them closely with small strips 
of bacon, without having been soaked, as for the ox-tonguo. 
Put them in a saut6-pan with a pint of good broth 
slightly coloured with caramel, a " bouquet garni," a bay- 



1 68 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

leaf, and salt to taste. Cover the saut6-pan with its lid, 
and boil gently for about half an hour, taking care to add 
a little more broth if required ; take the lid off, and put 
the saut^-pan in the oven to dry the surface, which should 
be of a nice light-brown colour. Then dish them up with 
a garnish of mac^oine (No. 281) and serve, after having 
poured over the remainder of the glaze in which the 
sweetbreads were cooked. 

Sweetbread prepared in this way may also be served 
with any garnish of vegetables or vegetable pur^, as 
described in this book, as well as with Tomato or Soubise 
sauce, &c., &c, 

864w OX-BRAINS, NEAPOLITAN STYLE. 

Soak the brains required in lukewarm water in the 
manner described in No. 328, then blanch them for a few 
minutes in salt water, drain, and wipe them with a cloth ; 
when cold, cut these in scollops, pass them in bread-crumbs, 
then into some well-beaten eggs and bread-crumbs again. 
Give each scollop a nice form with your hands ; after which, 
place them in a saut^-pan, with a few thin rashers of bacon, 
half a carrot, the quarter of an onion shred fine, a bay- 
leaf, salt to taste, half a pint of French white wine, and 
same quantity of broth ; let these simmer for half an hour, 
then strain and dish the scollops on some croiltons fried in 
butter, sprinkle over them a little hot Neapolitan sauce 
(No. 208), and serve. 

865. OX-BRAINS WITH MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Soak and blanch as above two ox-brains, then cook 
them in good broth, and let them get cold in the broth ; 
after which drain, and put them in a saute -pan with three 
tablespoon fuls of olive-oil, sprinkle over them a little salt 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 169 

and pepper, squeeze the juice of a lemon, add a few sprigs 
of tarragon, and set the saute-pan on the fire to simmer 
for a few minutes, and draw the pan fix)m the fire. Put 
half a pint of Montpellier butter (No 163) into another 
saut^pan on the fire, put the two brains in it, and glaze 
them well Dish them up, and pour the Montpellier butter 
over them before sending to the table. 

S66. BLACK PUDDINGS. 

Take one pint of pig's blood, add to it half a pint of 
boiled cream, half a pound of the inside fat of the pig, cut 
in small dice, cut three onions also in dice and fry them 
with two ounces of butter in a frying-pan without colouring 
them ; mix these with the blood, season with half an ounce 
of salt, a pinch of pepper^ a little grated nutmeg, a sprig 
of thyme, and half a bay-leaf, chopped very fine ; mix all 
these well together and fill the skins (previously cleaned and 
washed) with this mixture, taking care to allow space for 
tying them into five-inch lengths When completed and 
thus tied, immerse the black puddings in boiling water, with- 
out, however, boiling them, but let them remain in it till 
they become somewhat firm to the touch, when they must 
be taken out and hung in the larder to cool. 

When required, cut them into lengths, score them well 
with a sharp knife, or prick them all round with a trussing- 
needle, so as to prevent them bui'sting. Broil them on a 
moderate fire for about t«n minutes, taking care to turn 
them round as required ; when done, dish them up with 
mashed potatoes and serve very hot. 

367. PIG'S FEET A LA STE. MENEHOULD. 

Procure four large pig's feet, pickle them for eight days 
in common salt brine, then wash and boil them in a quart 



170 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of ordinary stock for about three hours and a half, properly 
seasoned with a " bouquet garni/' one carrot, two onions, 
and half a head of celery, all shred fine. When done, 
drain and cut them in two, lengthways ; remove all the 
large bones, press them into shape with the hands, and 
let them get cold ; after which, sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper, rub them over with a brush or feather dipped in 
clarified butter, then roll them in bread-crumbs and broil 
them over a clear fire (taking care to frequently turn them) 
till of a nice golden colour ; then dish them up, a^d serve 
with a sharp sauce (No. 205) apart. 



368. PIG'S FEET A LA OENOISE. 

Prepare and cook four pig's feet as in the previous 
number, bone and fill them up with a salpicon k la monglas 
(No. 315); after which, join the two halves, tie them around 
with some pig's caul, prepared for the purpose, give them 
their original form, pass them through bread-crumbs, and 
broil them over a clear fire, taking care, as in No. 367, to 
turn them round ; and when nicely done, dish them up in 
halves and serve with Italian sauce (No. 204) apart. 



869. PIG'S EARS A LA VENITIENNE. 

Take four pig's ears, singe them well over a clear fiame^ 
and clean the insides properly with a cloth after having 
scraped them nicely, then blanch in boiling salt water for 
five minutes, drain, and put them in a stewpan with a quart 
of broth and boil them till cooked, then let them get cold 
in the liquor. Cut in halves six small onions, of which the 
two extremities, as well as the hearts in the centre, must 
be removed ; then cut these onions in half-circles and fry 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 171 

them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter without 
browning; add a gill of Espagnole sauce, half a pint of 
veal broth or beef gravy, and simmer for about ten minutea 
Meantime cut the ears in small strips, and when the onions 
are nicely cooked skim off the fat, add the strips of ears 
to it, with a little salt, a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped 
parsley, a few drops of vinegar, and a little mustard. Toss 
up the lot and mis it well together, and when it is properly 
heated sei-ve. 



870. PIG'S EARS WITH A PUR^E OF LENTILS. 

Prepare and blanch in a similar manner as the foregoing 
four pig's ears; drain and put them into a stewpan wit)i 
enough broth to cover them; add one carrot and two 
onions shred fine, as well as a ^* bouquet garni " and a bay^ 
leaf; boil them; and when cooked take them out, dish 
up with a purde of lentils or any other pur^ of vegetable, 
and serve. 



87L PIG'S LIVER, BRAIZED. 

Take a pig's liver, wash and wipe it well with a cloth, 
then lard it in the same way as the ox-tongae (No. 360). 
Put into a stewpan a few slices of fat bacon, one carrot, 
and two onions shred, and a "bouquet garni;" lay the 
liver at the top of these with enough broth to moisten half 
of the liver; set the stewpan (with the lid on) to boil, and 
simmer very gently for an hour; taking care meanwhile 
to often baste the liver with its liquor. Remove the lid, 
skim the liquor very carefully, and put the stewpan into 
the oven to give a nice tint to the lard. Meanwhile boil 
a gill of Espagnole sauce ; dish up some purde of potatoes ; 



172 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

put the liver on the pur^, strain the gravy in which the 
liver was cooked ; skim off all the grease, mix it well with 
the Espagnole sauce, pour it over the liver, and serve. 



872. PIG'S LIVER, POUNDED. 

Clean a pig's liver, cut it in small pieces, and put it in 
a mortar with the half of its weight of fat ; add to it half 
a pound of trimmed and cut mushrooms, one tablespoonful 
of fine herbs (No. 195), a tablespoonful of salt, two pinches 
of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four 
eggs; pound these well together in the mortar, then add 
a gill of sherry, mix it well and rub the lot through a wire 
sieve with a wooden spoon; butter the inside of a bain- 
marie pan, put the mixture in it and place it in a pan two- 
thirds full of boiling water ; boil thus for about an hour, 
then pour the contents into a hot dish, sprinkle it with some 
essence of mushrooms (No. 171), and serve. 



873. CALFS LIVER, BRAIZED A LA GENOISE. 

Wash and wipe dry a calFs liver, then lard it through 
with strips of fat bacon and raw ham alternately, let it 
soak in a gill of oil seasoned with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley for about an hour, turning it over at least twice 
during that time. After which, pour the lot into a sautd- 
pan, add one carrot, two onions, one head of celery all shred 
fine, a ''bouquet garni,'' and a bay-leaf; moisten the lot 
with one pint and a half of good broth, cover the pan and 
boil ; then draw the pan away from the fire, and let the 
liver simmer gently for about an hour and a half, frequently 
basting it with it-s own liquor, then remove the liver into 
a stewpan with a little of its liquor and put it in the oven 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 173 

to glaze properly. Meantime push the saut^-pan on the 
fire and continue reducing the half-glaze by sharp boiling, 
and skim off the fat. Then dress the liver in the centre 
of a dish, make a border of macaroni cheese (No. 88), 
strain the sauce through a pointed strainer over the liver 
and macaroni, and serve. 

Calf's liver cooked as above can also be served with 
any garnish or pur^ of vegetables instead of macaroni 



874. CALFS LIVER, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Clean and dry a calf's liver as in No. 373, then lard it 
through with strips of fat bacon, season on both sides 
with salt and pepper, put it in a saut^-pan with a quarter 
of a pound of butter and fry it nicely for about five minutes, 
taking care to give it an even colour all round. Then 
remove the liver from the saut^-pan and put it on a dish 
apart Sprinkle three spoonfuls of flour with the butter 
and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire for five minutes. 
Add a pint of water, a pint of French white wine, one onion 
with two cloves stuck in it, and a '' bouquet garni," season 
with salt and pepper, stir these with a wooden spoon till 
it boils, then put the liver in with about two dozen new 
carrots, as near of the same size as possible (scraped and 
cleaned), and let it simmer with the stewpan three-parts 
covered for two hours ; then add one dozen button onions 
previously fried in butter, and simmer again for about half 
an hour; dish the liver up, skim the fat from the sauce, 
and garnish the liver with the carrots and onions ; take the 
*' bouquet garni " and onion with the cloves out, and if 
there be too much sauce reduce it on a sharp fire for five 
minutes ; then pass it through a pointed strainer over the 
liver and vegetables, and serve. 



174 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

875. CALF'S LIVER A LA VENITIENNE. 

Cut in small slices a calf's liver and put these in a fry- 
ing-pan in which a quarter of a pound of butter has already 
been melted with three spoonfuls of salad-oil, two onions 
shred fine, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, 
fry these on a brisk fire, and stir constantly with a wooden 
spoon, until the liver is cooked and has assumed a nice 
bronzed colour, then squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, 
and serva 



876. REMARKS ON SAUSAGES AND HOW TO MAKE 

THEM. 

Sausages are generally considered to be mysteries of the 
pork butcher, and this prejudice is not wholly without 
foundation, as the material used for their composition is 
often of a very doubtful character. On that account, and 
that only, I advise the making of sausages at homa 

Take one pound each of lean and fat pork, both free from 
gristle and rind, chop them in dice and put them into a 
sausage-machine, the turning of which will give you the 
sausage meat; season with salt, pepper, a little pounded 
thyme and spice. Mix well together, and fill a well- 
cleansed skin with this forcemeat, and separate it into 
sausages of from three or four inches in length, by tying 
tliem with small string, as for black puddings. When 
these sausages are made they can be cooked either by 
broiling or frying. In either case they must be pricked 
on both sides with a trussing-needle, to prevent their 
bursting. If broiled, a moderate fii-e is required, and six 
minutes will be found sufficient to cook them properly, 
turning them over after three minutes. If fried, put a 
little butter or fat into a frying-pan, and when hot put the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 175 

sausages in ; the same number of minutes will cook them, 
provided they are also properly turned round. 

Sausages must always be served very hot, on a hot dish, 
and are eaten either plain or with a garnish of puree of 
potatoes, or any other purde, as well as with rice boiled 
in broth (with the stewpan closely covered) for twenty 
minutes. 

877. SAUSAGES, CITIZEN STTLE« 

Put eight sausages into a saut6-pan with half a pint of 
French white wine and a good pinch of pepper ; cover the 
saut^pan and boil for eight minutes; take the sausages 
out and keep them hot in the comer of the stove on a 
dish ; add one gill of Poulette sauce to the saut6-pan with 
the wine ; stir and reduce for four minutes ; then add an 
ounce of butter, a little chopped parsley, and stir till the 
butter is melted by the side of the fire, and then pour it 
over the sausages, and serve. 



878. CREPINETTES WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Crepinettes are made with the same forcemeat as the 
sausages, but in this case no skin is used. Make one 
pound of sausage meat as described, then flatten it on a 
board to the thickness of an inch and four inches wide, 
divide this in eight equal portions, and wrap them in pig's 
cjiul to a flat oval shape. When ready, broil them on a 
moderate fire for six minutes each side, then serve very 
hot with half a pint of Tomato sauce (No. 217) apart. 

These crepinettes can also be served with rice or mashed 
potatoes. 



CHArXER VIII. 

S79. FRESH BOILED HEAT. 

Meat that has been boiled for the purpose of making 
broth should not be disregaixled on account of it8 loss of 
savour and uninviting aspect. When the broth is made, 
the different sorts of meat should be taken out of the stock- 
pot, placed on a dish, and sent to the table garnished with 
some of the vegetables that were cooked with it ; or in other 
cases, special vegetables may be simply and carefully pre- 
pared (according to season and taste) as I have indicated 
in the chapter on Garnishes. Meat served thus will be 
found both profitable and useful, and ought to hold its 
own in the domestic cookeiy of this country, as well a& 
it does in that of France and Italy; but it can also be 
prepared under various palatable and tasty dishes, for 
which see the following. 

880. BEEF HIRONTON. 

Cut three pounds of cold boiled beef into slices of about 
a quarter of an inch thick, trim off the fat and dry parts, 
and place the slices of beef on a dish. Peel, shred fine, 
and fry in two ounces of butter four onions to a nice 
light-bi-own colour; then sprinkle three tablespoonfuls of 
flour over them with sjilt and pepper to taste, and let them 
simmer for five minutes longer ; after which, add a pint of 
bi*oth and stir well on the fire for fifteen minutes; then 
add a teaispoonful of mixed mustard, stir, and drop the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 177 

slices of beef into it ; toss the saut6-pan nicely, warm the 
beef without boiling for a few minutes ; season with more 
salt and pepper/ if required ; and then dish it up and serve. 

381. BOILED BEEF WITH SHARP SAUCE. 

Slice the same quantity of beef as in No. 380, lay the 
slices in a gratin-pau, season them with salt and pepper, 
moisten with a gill of good broth, and put them in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes ; after which, pour one pint 
of sharp sauce (No. 205) over the beef, and serve. 

In the same way the beef can be warmed up, and an 
Italian or Tomato sauce poured over it. 

882. BOILED BEEF AU GRATIN. 

Slice the boiled beef as previously directed, and put it in 
a gratin-dish ; place about half a pound of fresh mushroom 
cuttings in a stewpan with a pint of broth, season with salt 
and pepper ; boil for five minutes, and then pour this over 
the beef. Cover the top with bread-crumbs, set the dish 
in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

388. BOILED BEEF, COUNTRYMAN'S STYLE. 

Cut two pounds of beef in two-inch dice. Cut in the 
same style a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon, remove 
the rind, and fry the bacon only, with one ounce of butter 
in a stewpan, to a brown colour; then add a quart of 
common stock or water, a "bouquet garni," one onion 
shred, and a pound of potatoes cut in squares like the beef ; 
boil these for fifteen minutes ; after which, add the pieces 
of beef ; warm them up, without boiling, for ten minutes ; 
then take out the " bouquet," add some salt if necessary, 
dish up aiid serve* 



178 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

884. MINCED BOILED BEEF. 

Brown for three minutes in a stewpan three tablespoon- 
fuls of fioiir with an ounce of butter; take this off the fire, 
add one pint of broth, salt and pepper to taste, mix for 
two minutes and pusli the stewpan on the fire, stir for ten 
minutei^, then add three pounds of beef, previously trimmed 
and mixed fine, together with a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and stir again for three or four minutes on the 
fire. Should the mixture be too thick, add a little more 
broth, stir, and serve. 

This mince can be made with Italian or Tomato sauce 
instead of broth, and in either case the process is the 
same. 

885. BOILED BEEF CROQUETS. 

Chop fine about two pounds of boiled beef. Make a pint 
of Poulette sauce (No. 179), and reduce it on a sharp fii-e 
to half that quantity. Thicken it with the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten. Mix the chopped beef with this sauce ; 
add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and season with 
salt and pepper ; when well mixed with a wooden spoon, 
spread it out on a dish to a thickness of an inch and a half, 
let it get cold, when it will be firm and divide it into twenty 
equal parts. Strew on a board some bread-crumbs, and put 
the twenty paiis of minced meat thereon, each separated 
by about two inches, cover these with a sprinkling of 
bread-crumbs, roll each into the shape of a cork, then beat 
the whites of the three eggs for one minute, without 
frothing, add to this a dessert-spoonful of salt, two of oil, 
and same quantity of water, mix well together, dip the 
croquets in the mixture, roll them again in bread-crumbs, 
and place them on a dish. Twenty minutes before serving, 
have the frying-kettle ready with hot fat, place the croquets 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 179 

in the frjing-basket and put this in the fat to fry ; when 
nearly done move them gently with a slice to ensure their 
even colouring and becoming crisp ; then draw the basket 
out of the frying fat, drain the croquets on a clean cloth, 
sprinkle with salt, dish them up on a napkin, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

886. BOILED BEEF SALAD. 

Cut up the same quantity of cold boiled beef in small 
thin slices, properly trimmed and free from gristle, and put 
these on a dish. 

Prepare in a bowl a similar sauce as for the sheep's feet 
(No. 3S4)> po^r it over the beef well mixed, and sen-e. 
This will be found very appetising in warm weather. 

887. BOILED VEAL MINCED, AND POACHED EGGS. 

Pare off the outside part of two pounds of boiled veal, 
cut it in shreds and chop very fine. Melt in a stewpan an 
ounce of butter, and brown two tablespoonfuls of flour 
in it, by stirring on the fire with a wooden spoon for 
three minutes ; then gradually mix it with a pint of broth, 
stirring the while, and reduce it on a brisk fire to the 
consistency of sauce; then add the minced veal, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste ; stir and 
mix this on the fire for three minutes, and dish it up ; 
after which, place eight poached eggs on it, decorate with 
crofitons fried in butter, and serve. 

Note, — Any pieces of cooked ham, bacon, or pickled 
tongue, properly minced, as well as mushrooms, can be 
added to the minced veal. 

888. BOILED VEAL, MINCED A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Trim two pounds of boiled veal, and cut it in dice of a 
quarter of an inch thick. Put half a pint of white wine 



i8o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

into a stewpan with two chopped shalots, a little grated 
nutmeg, salt and pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; set 
these ingredients on to hoil, and then pour in the minced 
veal, stir, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Meantime 
prepare a plain macaroni cheese (No. 88), dish it up, put 
the minced veal over it, sprinkle the lot with a little hot 
glaze, and serve. 

Minced veal can also he prepared in croquettes (see 
No. 385), or au gratin, as in No. 382. 



889. BOILED MUTTON. 

Boiled mutton should always he eaten with plain vege- 
tables, and served with Caper or Tomato sauce apart. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

REMARKS ON FISH. 

The fisheries of Great Britain have assumed such vast 
proportions and importance^ that it makes one almost 
wonder how such a quantity of fish (in London some 400 
tons) daily sent to the prmcipal markets of this country 
can he so easily disposed of. 

The flesh of the different species of British fish (there 
are many) is fully recognised by all to be a most delicate 
and nutritious food, as well as brain feeding. * 

Nature having thus provided an unbounded supply of 
fish for man's food, to him remains the duty of knowing 
how to use it to the best advantage, and cook, di-ess, and 
serve it in different ways, in order to relieve and improve 
by such means the monotony of its taste and colour. 

The multiplicity of modes in preparing fish as a food, is 
however, so great and perplexing that I only give a few 
of the most useful and economical recipes for each fish, 
ignoring as much as possible the use of other species and 
crustaceans as a garnish to the numerous forms of cooking 
and dressing it. 

There are two ways of boiling fish. The first consists 
in putting the whole of the fish in cold water with plenty 
of salt and a little vinegar ; the second, in immersing in 
boiling salted water the fish cut in slices. The advantage 
of the former is, that the fish boiled whole loses none of 
its quality ; but the cooking of the latter is quicker. How- 

z8z 



i82 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ever, as it is not always convenient to cook a whole 
tishy especially when it is a large one, and when the 
<|uestion of time is also to be considered, I think it is only 
light that the advantage derived from one should be 
e<}iialised by the consideration of the other. In either 
cii^e, as soon as the fish b cooked it must be taken out 
of the water and drained, otherwise it will lose some of 
its flavour and firmness. Should you have to keep the 
fish hot for a few minutes before serving, cover it with 
two or three folds of clean cloth or flannel on the strainer 
across the kettle, but do not on any account let it soak in 
hot water. 

Remarks on Salmon. 

Salmon is certainly and without prejudice the king of 
fish ; he is highly intellectual and possesses a strongly 
developed instinct ; in fact, is an aristocrat and a gentle- 
man. His shape, build, and movements are most graceful 
.and elegant, and is considered the finest specimen of the 
species, and can jump over obstacles and difficulties like A 
hunter on terra fimicu He strongly objects to unclean or 
polluted rivers, and, like a hound following the fox by scent, 
he can detect impure water (which means danger for him) 
for a long distance down the river. He is more of a sea 
than a fresh-water fish, and must be as free as the red- 
deer or the eagle, and will not thrive in captivity. The 
season is from March to August. 

890. BOILED SALMON, LOBSTER SAUCE. 

The middle cut of a salmon is the most delicate part of 
tlio fish, but it is rather oily, and consequently more in- 
digestible than the rest. Of the two halves, the one with 
the head is to be preferred. 

Take a slice of about three pounds of salmon, in pre- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 183 

feronce the cut near the head, put this on the drainer in 
a small fish-kettle with three quarts of boiling water and 
a handful of salt; boil it, and then simmer for about 
twenty minutes or till the fish is done, which can easily 
be ascertained by it separating from the bones. Then at 
once take the drainer out of the water, place the piece of 
salmon carefully on a folded napkin on the dish, decorate 
with a few sprigs of green parsley, and serve with Lobster 
sauce (No. 212) in a sauce-boat apart. 

Salmon boiled in this way can also be served with 
shrimp, melted butter, or HoUandaiise sauce. 

391. SALMON A LA VENITIENN& 

Boil as in the foregoing two or three pounds of salmon 
cut in slices of one inch thick for twelve minutes; then 
strain, remove the skin, and put the slices of salmon in 
a saut^-pan with a pint of fish gravy (No. 20) and a 
spoonful of lobster butter (No. 169); let them simmer 
with the saut^-pan covered for ten minutes; after which, 
take each slice out with a flat skimmer without breaking, 
dish them up, by overlaying each other in a circle, pour 
a Venitian sauce (No, 206) over them, and serve. 

892. SALMON A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare a liquor called " Court Bouillon " in the follow- 
ing manner : — 

Put a gill of salad-oil or three ounces of butter in a 
stewpan, with two onions and one carrot sliced, add a few 
trimmings of bacon or ham, a dozen pepper-corns, four 
cloves, a " bouquet garni," and a handful of salt ; fry these 
ingredients over the fire for eight minutes, stirring the 
while ; then pour in a bottle of white dry wine and two 
quarts of water or fish broth ; let it simmer for half an 
hour, skim, and strain through a sieve into a small fish- 



i84 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

kettle ; then put in three pounds of salmon, cut in slices 
as in No. 391, boil these gently for twenty-five minutes, 
8ti*ain in the usual way, and dish them up with Grenoise 
sauce (So. 207) poured over, and serve. 

Note. — ^This " Coui*t Bouillon " will keep a long time if 
boiled every four days, adding half a pint of water or fish 
broth and a similar quantity of wine each time. This 
liquor is generally used for boiling fresh -water fish. 

393. BROILED SALMON. TARTARE SAUCE. 

Steep two pounds of salmon, cut in slices of about one 
inch thick, in a dish with half a gill of salad-oil ; salt and 
pepper. Broil these on a good and clear fire for twelve 
minutes each side, then dish up and serve with Tartare 
sauce (No. 221) apart. 

894. SALMON CUTLETS A L'INDIENNE. 

Slice a piece of salmon as previously described, cut these 
in halves, lengthwise, then iTib them slightly over with oil, 
sprinkle each slice with salt and pepper, broil them over 
a clear fire for twelve minutes each side ; after which, dish 
them up in a circle on a napkin on a dish, and serve with 
Indian curry sauce (No. 185) apart. 

396. SALMON CROQUETS. 

Pieces of cooked salmon should be used for croquets. 
Proceed to make a salpicon of salmon in the same way as 
the salpicon of lobster (see No. 314), then turn this into 
croquets (No. 326), fry in the same way, and serve. 

396. SALMON WITH MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Trim, wtush, and shred two lettuces; season with oil, 
vinegai', salt, and pepper ; lay these at the bottom of a dish. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 185 

Cut in small fillets the boiled salmon left from the previous 
day's dinner ; pile these over the lettuces in the centre of 
the dish. Cover the lot with Mayonnaise sauce (No. 219), 
decorate the border of the dish with two hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters and two cleansed and boned anchovies, each 
cut in fillets of four, twisted round the finger and placed 
alternately with the eggs, and serve. 

397. PICKLED SALMON. 

Clean, wash, and wipe a whole salmon weighing about 
twelve pounds, tie the head with a string and simmer very 
gently in the fish-kettle on the drainer for fifty minutes 
in plenty of salt water and a glass of vinegar, or better still 
with " Court Bouillon " (No. 392). After which, if the fish 
is cooked in a '* Court Bouillon," remove the fish-kettle to 
a cool place, leaving the salmon in it until it is cold. If 
boiled in water, drain the fish when cooked, and slide it 
very carefully from the strainer into a deep oval dish ; and 
then in either case pour over it a well-beaten mixture 
composed of a bottle of vinegar, half a pint of oil properly 
seasoned with salt, a tablespoonful of pepper-corns, six 
cloves, two bay-leaves, and the peel of two lemons. Let the 
fish steep in this liquor for at least four hours, taking care 
to baste it often with the liquor during that time; then 
dish up on a large oval dish with part of its liquor strained 
over it ; remove the string from around the head, decorate 
the fish and the dish with a border of peeled cucumber- 
slices partly immersed in the liquor, a few thin slices of 
lemon cut in fancy shapes and placed about on the dish, 
and, last but not least, a few spiigs of fennel nicely arranged 
about the head, tail, and centre of the fish, and then send 
to the table. 



i86 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



Hemarks on Turbot. 

Turboi is a very thick flat-fish, and (halibut excepted) is 
the largest of that class. 

The greater portion of turbots supplied to the various 
English markets is caught on or near the numerous sand- 
banks between England and Holland, but the finest comes 
from the Flemish coasts. 

The flesh of the turbot is almost as white as snow, firm, 
delicate, savoury, and very nourishing, and may without 
pi*ejudice, on account of its superior taste and flavour, com- 
bined with its plump and fleshy shape, be compared to the 
Surrey chicken, and called the sea-capon. 

898. BOILED TURBOT. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Choose a thick and plump turbot; see that the fins or 
backbone are free from colour; if it has any reddish 
appearance about it the turbot (although it may be quite 
fresh) will boil a bad colour. Clean the inside thoroughly 
and rub with a handful of salt; trim the fins close; 
wash, and wipe dry ; rub over with the juice of a lemon, 
score it with a pointed knife a quarter of an inch deep 
across the back two or three times ; put two handf uls of 
salt over it and place in a turbot-kettle on the drainer 
with sufficient boiling water to cover the fish. Boil, and 
as soon as the water begins to simmer, skim it well ; then 
hit it simmer for about half an hour, more or less, according 
to the size of the fish. When the fish is done lift it out 
of the water with the drainer, put this across the kettle 
for a few minutes to dry, and then slip it very carefully 
on to a dish and serve with Hollandaise sauce (No. 184) 
apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 187 

399. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LINDIENNE. 

After having cleaned and trimmed a small turbot, or 
pait of one, as in No. 398, cut it in scollops/ place them in a 
saut^-pan with three ounces of butter, a gill of fish broth 
or boiling water, and two tablespoonfuls of curry paste or 
powder nicely sprinkled and mixed with the broth ; let this 
simmer, with the lid on the saut6pan, for twenly minutes; 
after which, add to it a gUl of Veloute sauce (No, 153). 
Let the whole boil together for three minutes longer, then 
dish up the fillets, by laying one over the other in a circle, 
pass the sauce through a tammy sieve, make it hot again, 
mix with it an ounce of butter, stir to melt the butter well, 
then pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 

400. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LITALIENNE. 

Prepare the fillets of turbot as in No. 399, boil them 
with the same quantity of butter and fish broth for twenty 
minutes with the pan covered ; then add half a pint of 
Italian sauce; let. the contents simmer for four or five 
minutes longer ; dish up the fillets in the same manner as 
the Indienne, and pass the sauce through a tammy into 
tlie pan to be made hot again ; add an ounce of anchovy 
butter, together with a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers. 
Mix these well together, pour over the fillets, and serve. 

401. TURBOT CREAM AU GRATIN. 

Take the remnants of a cooked turbot ; bone, and trim 
properly ; cut or separate this in small flakes or fillets and 
put them into a stewpan with enough B^hamel sauce 
(No. 155) to moisten the bottom of the pan; season this 
with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; 
set the stewpan on the fire to warm the contents; after 
which, pile them up nicely on a gratiu-dish, shake some 



i88 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

grated cheese on the surface, pour a gill of cream over 
this, and set the dish in a moderately heated oven for eight 
or ten minutes in order to gratinate the top ; then form a 
border around the fish, on the edge of the dish, with a 
puree of potatoes, hold a red-hot salamander over the 
whole surface to give it a light-brown colour, and serve. 

402. TURBOT CROQUETS, &e. 

Turbot can also be served in croquets, coquilles, mayon- 
naise, &C. &c. (see each heading). 

403. BRILL. 

This fish, bearing in shape and taste a great resemblance 
to turbot, is prepared in the same way and served with the 
same sauces, but requires scraping before cooking, in order 
to fi'oe it fix>m scales. 

404. JOHN DORT. 

This fish, although a favourite with a great many, is but 
seldom sent to the table, otherwise than as a plain boiled 
fish, with either Lobster, Shrimp, Hollandaise, or Italienne 
sauce. 

Bemarks on Cod- Fish. 

The common cod is a fish almost universally known in 
cold and temperate climates. It is found in almost every 
sea but the Mediterranean, and as a proof of the com- 
mercial importance and value of cod, the right of its 
fisheries has even been, from time to time, the cause of 
ill-feeling between the fishermen of friendly nations. 

Cod-liver-oil is a gt*eat source of income to the fishermen 
of the North, as well as a boon and relief to weak and 
consumptive persons. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 189 

405. COD WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Crimp a piece of cod ; place it on the drainer in a fish- 
kettle with a handful of salt ; pour over it sufficient boiling 
water to cover it entirely. Boil it, and let it simmer for 
a qiiai*ter of an hour, then drain and place it on a napkin 
on a dish, and serve with Oyster sauce (No. 186) in a sauce- 
boat apart. 

Cod boiled as above can also be served with Egg, Hoi- 
landaise, Melted Butter, or Tomato sauce. 

406. COD STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Clean, trim, and stuff the inside of a cod with some well- 
seasoned veal stuffing, which secure by sewing up ; make 
several deep incisions on either side of the fish, and place 
it in a deep bakiug-dish, previously spread with plenty of 
butter ; season with salt, pepper, two shalots, a few mush- 
rooms and some parsley chopped fine ; moisten with half a 
bottle of white wine and a gill of broth. Set the fish in the 
oven to bake, and every ten minutes, or oftener, baste with 
its liquor. When the fish is nearly done sprinkle it over 
with some fine raspings, and put again in the oven for 
ten minutes. When the cod is baked draw the string out 
without tearing the flesh of the fish; put this on a hot 
dish with a little broth to detach the glaze from the bottom 
of and around the pan, pass the lot through a tammy sieve 
into a small stewpan, add a little brown sauce ; reduce the 
whole to a proper consistency ; add half an ounce of anchovy 
butter, a little cayenne, and the juice of a lemon ; stir this 
well together on the fire, pour it over and round the cod in 
the dish, and serve. 

407. COD A LTNDIENNE. 

Trim some pieces of cod in the shape of thick fillets, 
place these in a saut^-pan well buttered; moisten with 



190 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

some Indian curry sauce (Na 1 85) prepared for the pur* 
pose ; cover the saut^-pan with its lid and set on a sharp 
lire to hoil for about twenty minutes; then dish up the 
fillets in the form of a circle, overlaying each other, pass 
the sauce through a tammy, pour it over the fish, and 
serve. 

. 408. COD A LA GENOISE. 
Prepare some slices of ood as in the previous number, 
put these in a nicely oiled saut4-pan and moisten with 
a pint of Genoise sauce (No. 207); cover the pan and 
simmer on a brisk fire for twenty minutes; after which, 
dish up the fish as described in the foregoing, pour the 
sauce over, and serva 

409. COD A LA CR^ME, AU ORATIN. 

Prepare the pieces of cod left from the previous day's \ 

dinner, in a manner similar to the turbot au gratin (No. 
401). 

410. COD IN COQUILLES. 

Cod can also be served in coquilles, croquets, and 
mayonnaise (for which see Nos. 324, 326, and 396 respec- 
tively). 

411. SALT COD. EGG SAUCE. 

Salt cod should be soaked in running water, for at least 
twelve hours previous to being cooked. If this cannot le 
obtained, cover the piece of salt fish intended for cooking 
with warm water, and let it soak for six hours; after 
which, soak it for another six hours in cold water, taking 
care to change the water at least three times ; then put 
it in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, boil for six 
or seven minutes; drain well; dish up, and garnish with 
plain boiled potatoes, and send to the table with some 
Egg sauce (No. 182) in a sauce-boat apart. 

Note. — Salt ood steeped and boiled, as in the preceding 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 191 

number, can also be served with melted butter, maltre 
d'hdtel, or black butter. 



Kbmarks on Sturgbox. 

The sturgeon is generally found at the mouths of large 
rivers in the different seas of Europe, and used to be very 
highly appreciated by our ancestors; in fact, by an Act 
passed in the reign of Edward II. (which, I am informed, 
has never been repealed) that fish was called " Royal,'' 
and only allowed to be served on the table of that monarch, 
and forbidden to appear on any other. 

Amongst the Romans, at their feasts, the sturgeon was 
decorated with garlands and wreaths, and used to be carried 
to the tables of Consuls and Emperors by the chiefs and 
nobles of their Court, to the sound of music. 

The flesh of the sturgeon differs much in colour and 
taste, but a good cook can almost turn it at will into fisli, 
meat, or poultry. 

Caviare, composed of the roe of sturgeon, is very much 
relished, especially by the Russians, as a hors-d'oeuvre, or 
side dish, and by them it is preserved, and exported, on a 
large scale to all parts of Europe. 

412. STURGEON A LA VENITIENNEL 

Take the half of a small sturgeon, the head -part in 
preference, and boil it in " Court Bouillon *' (No. 392) for 
about two hours, with the fish-kettle covered ; then drain 
and skim it, put the fish in a deep-baking dish with a 
pint of Genoise sauce (No. 207), let it simmer for ten 
minutes, taking care to often baste the fish with the sauce 
during that time; after which, dish it up, add to the 
sauce about a dozen small onions and a handful of mush- 
rooms previously blanched and glazed in broth, together 



192 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with an oanoe of andioTj butter; mix this well on the fire, 
pour it over the fish, and 



4IS. STUR6B0N A L'AMGLAISB. 

Procure a prime cat of sturgeon ; remove the skin with 
a thin-bladed knife, by inserting the point between the flesh 
and skin close to the bade fin, and drawing it to and 
fro 80 as to sever the skin from the flesh on both sides. 
When this is completed replace the skin over the sturgeon, 
and fasten on with a string, in order to preserve the 
colour of the fish. Put the fish on the drainer in the fish- 
kettle, with sufficient " Court Bouillon " to cover it welL 
Cover the fish-kettle and let it bofl gently for two hours 
and a half; after which, draw the fish away from the 
fire, take it out and place on a dish in a hot closet, 
well covered with a folded clean doth. Meantime take a 
pint of ** Court Bouillon " out of the kettle in which the 
fish has just been cooked ; strain into a small stewpan ; 
add half a pint of port wine, and reduce the whole to 
a half-glaze; after which, mix with it a gill of Espagnole 
or any other brown sauce, a dozen button mushrooms, an 
ounce of anchovy butter, a little cayenne and grated nut- 
meg, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the lot well on the 
fire, and let it boil three minutes ; then bring the fish out, 
remove the cloth, string, and skin, pour the sauce over the 
sturgeon, and serve. 

414. STURGEON, LARDED AND ROASTED. 

Remove the skin of a piece of sturgeon in the same 
manner as in No. 413, sprinkle the fish with salt and 
pepper, and if time will allow, lard with small strips of 
bacon on each side, or simply tie some thin slices of bacon 
on it; then butter a sheet of stiff kitchen paper large 
enough to enclose the sturgeon, put some sliced onions and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 193 

carrots on the paper, as well as a few sprigs each of thyme 
and parsley, two bay-leaves and a laurel-leaf, place the fish 
on these and wrap it well in the paper, tie two more sheets 
of buttered paper around it, fix it on the spit to be roasted 
before an even fire, or in a baking-sheet to be baked in 
the oven, which will, in either case, take about one hour 
and a half or two hours, according to the size of the fish. 

When the sturgeon is cooked, untie the strings and 
remove the paper, dish up and glaze it, then serve with 
Oyster, Lobster, or Indian sauce apart. 

415. STURGEON AU GRATIN. 

This method of dressing sturgeon should only be resorted 
to (as in the foregoing gratins) when it happens that a 
sufficient remnant is left from the previous day's meal. 

Cut the sturgeon into small scollops ; put into a sautd- 
pan enough Allemande sauce to moisten the quantity of 
IJsh left; add some fine herbs, lemon-juice, a little grated 
nutmeg, and half an ounce of anchovy butter; mix these 
ingredients well together on the fire; add the scollops 
of sturgeon, and when nicely hot, dish them up in a 
gratin dish, pour the sauce over, cover the whole with 
bread-crumbs and a handful of grated cheese, place the 
dish in the oven to gratinate, and when nicely browned, 
serva 

Sturgeon, in addition to the preceding modes of prepa- 
ration, can also be di'essed similarly to salmon, in all its 
varieties. 

416. SKATE WITH BLACK BUTTER. 

There are many varieties of skate, but amongst these the 
blue or grey skate are considered the best for the table, and 
when properly dressed are not unworthy of the epicure's 
notice. This fish is generally bought ready dressed and 

N 



194 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cleaned, but in case this should not be done, the following 
is the proper method of doing it : — - 

Skin the skate on both sides, cut off the tail, wash the 
fish thoroughly and lay it flat on the table ; take a sharp 
knife and with it separate the fleshy parts from the back- 
bone on both sides ; after which, cut these pieces into long 
strips by cutting through the cartilaginous or finny parts ; 
place these strips in a pan with plenty of fresh water in 
order to crimp them. In like manner separate the other 
side of the fish and place the pieces also in the cold water ; 
keep the liver apart, and change the water in which the 
fish is placed very often and until the ciimping be effected. 

Put these pieces into a saucepan with sufficient water to 
cover the fish ; add a glass of vinegar, a handful of salt, 
and a faggot of parsley. Set the saucepan to boil and 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, di-aw the pan away from 
the fire, drain the fish, and keep it hot. Meantime put the 
liver of the skate into a small stewpan, with enough of 
the liquor in which the skate was cooked to moisten it ; 
then boil for five minutes and drain ; dish up the fish and 
liver, pour half a pint of black butter (No. 164) over it, 
garnish with a handful of fried parsley, and serve. 

417. SKATE A LA OENOISE. 

Prepare and cook the crimped pieces of skate in the 
same way as in the previous number ; dish these up, and 
pour over some Genoise sauce (Na 207), and serve. 

418. SKATE, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Boil in plenty of salt water with two ghisses of vinegar, 
for about a quarter of an hour, the whole of a skate. 
When cooked strain, and peel off the skin from both 
fciiles, put the skate on a dish, cover it with Hollandaise 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 195 

sauce (No. 184), in which you have previously mixed a 
tablespoouf ul of capers, and serva 



Rbhares on Mackerel. 

It has been proved beyond a doubt that the gills of 
mackerel undergo fermentation and become poisonous forty- 
eight hours after the fish has been caught; therefore 
no part of the head should be eaten, and I strongly advise 
the cutting-off both head and gills of every mackerel (how- 
ever fresh they may be) before cooking. 

419. BOILED MACKEREL. 

Bemove the gills as aforesaid, and cleanse the inside of 
one or more good-sized mackerel, cut off the end of the 
tail and fins, boil the fish in salt water with a little vinegar, 
dish up, and serve with Fennel (i$4) or Paisley sauce, in 
a sauce-boat apart. 

420. BROILED MACKEREL A LA MAITRE D'HdTEL. 

Prepare the mackerel as in the foregoing, split the fish 
down the back lengthwise, to the bone. Put these halves 
on a dish in which you have already placed two Uible- 
spoonfuls of olive-oil properly seasoned, with salt and 
|)epper ; soak the fish well with this ; then place the halves 
on a gridiron, over a brisk fire, for six minutes each 
side; dish them up, put some cold maitre d'hdtel butter 
(Na 226) over each half, and serve on a very hot dish. 

421. MACKEREL A LA 6EN0ISE. 

Cut off the heads of three mackerel ; clean and wash 
the fish properly, place them in a fish-kettle with a pint 
of white wine, a few sprigs of chopped parsley, three 
boned and chopped anchovies, a clove of garlic and half 



196 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

an onion shred fine; add to it a little oil, salt and pepper 
to taste, and set to simmer for about half an hour; 
after which, take the fish out, add to the liquor a gill of 
Espagnole sauce and the juice of a lemon ; stir the lot 
well together on the fire, dish up the fish, strain, and pour 
the sauce over it, and serve. 

422. FILLETS OF MACKEREL A LA VENITIENNE. 

Fillet three mackerel as follows : — Place the fish on the 
slab with its back toward you, then run the knife in, just 
below the gills, turn the edge of the blade under, press 
with the fingers of the left hand full on the upper end 
of the fish, and bearing with the blade of the knife upon 
the side of the backbone, draw the knife gently down to 
the tail, then turn the mackerel over and take the fillet 
off the other side. When this is done cut each fillet in ^ 

two, trim the ends nicely, and put them in a buttei^ ^ 

sauti^-pan; season with salt and pepper, and add two | 

ounces of clarified butter ; cover the fillets with a round 
of buttered paper; set the pan over a moderate fire to 
simmer for about a quarter of an hour ; after which, dress 
the fillets up in a dish in a circle, pour over some Yenitian 
sauce (No. 206), and serve. 

423. STEWED FILLETED MACKEREL 

Fillet three mackerel as in the foregoing, and take the 
skin off ; put these in a frying or baking pan with three 
ounces of melted butter, salt and pepper-corns to taste, a 
little chopped parsley and an onion shred fine. Set these 
on a moderate fire to stew nicely, taking care to turn the 
fillets without breaking them. When cooked, dish these 
up in a circle, pour in the pan half a pint of Tomato or 
Italian sauce ; stir the contents well on the fire till nicely 
hot, then pour the sauce over the fish and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 197 

Remarks on Sole. 

To the public in general soles are the most important 
of sea-fish, as they are required by all classes of society, 
the upper class getting the largest and best quality, the 
poorer the smaller and inferior fish. 

The supply of soles to the London market is very 
fluctuating on account of their migratory habits ; retiring 
to great depths in the ocean, during the winter and in 
stormy weather. 

The flesh of the sole is white, and possesses a delicacy 
and flavour superior to that of all other fish. It is gene- 
rally recommended to invalids and convalescents as a 
most nourishing and digestive food. 

424. BOILED SOLES. 

Remove the gills, cut off the heads transversely, cleanse 
the insides, strip or pull off the brown skins, scrape the 
other sides, then with a pair of large scissors trim away 
the fins close up to the fillets of two large soles. After 
which, wash and wipe them thoroughly, then immerse 
in boiling salt water, and let them boil for twelve or 
fifteen minutes, according to their size. When the soles 
are cooked dish up and serve with Butter sauce (No. 157) 
in a boat apart. 

425. FRIED SOLES. 

Trim and clean four soles of moderate size, as in the 
foregoing. Flour these well on both sides, then pass them 
through breadings (No. 269) and bread-raspings (No. 268). 
After which, dip them in warm frying fat, and gradually 
increase the heat till the soles are of a nice pale-brown 
colour, when they must be taken out. Drain them on a 
cloth, sprinkle each with salt, dish up on a napkin, garnish 



198 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with a few sprigs of fried parsley and a lemon cut in 
quarters, and serve with or without some Shrimp, Lobster, 
Melted Butter, or Hollandaise sauoa 

Note, — ^Moderate-sized soles only should be used for frying, 
as when large they must necessarily take a consideTable 
time in the frying, on account of their thickness, and 
imbibe a greater portion of the fat, and therefore contract 
a strong flavour. They are also less likely to appear crisp, 
although this is so essential a requisite in all fried fish. 

426. SOLES A LA COLBERT. 

Clean and trim two large soles as described in Na 425 ; 
make an incision on each side of the bone down the whole 
fish, break the bone in pieces with the handle of the knife, 
so as to facilitate removing it when cooked, pass these 
through breadings and bread-raspings (Noa 268 and 269), 
and fry them in hot fat for about ten or twelve minutes. 
When the soles are properly cooked, drain on a doth, 
put them on a dish, remove the pieces of bone, fill the 
inside with some cold mattre d'hdtel (No. 226), garnish with 
a little fried parsley, put the dish for two minutes in the 
oven, and serve with a lemon cut in four. 

427. SOLES WITH FINE HERBS. 

Clean and trim two large soles as in the foregoing ; put 
them on a buttered saut^-pan, sprinkle over them some 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one shalot ; season with 
salt) pepper, and a little nutmeg ; moisten with two glasses 
of white wine ; cover the soles with a buttered paper and 
set them in the oven to cook. When done, drain the liquor 
into a small stewpan containing half a pint of Allemande 
sauce; add to it a spoonful of blanched and chopped 
parsley, a pat of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 199 

stir the whole well together on the fire ; dish up the soles, 
pour the sauce over, and serve. 

428. SOLES AU 6RATIN. 

After having cleaned and trimmed, in the usual way, 
two large soles, spread them in a well-buttered gratin-dish 
or gratin-pan ; season with salt and pepper, moisten with 
half a pint of white wine, and sprinkle with a little finely 
chopped parsley ; put these in the oven to bake for about 
twenty minutes ; after which, pour over them half a pint 
of Italian sauce (No. 204.). Strew the top thickly with 
bread-raspings, push the dish back in the oven for a few 
minutes to gratinate, and just before serving pass the red- 
hot salamander over them, 

429. SOLES A LA PROVENgALE. 

Take two large soles, trim and clean as in the fore- 
going, place them in a saut^-pan properly seasoned with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley ; add to these 
a gill of white wine and the same quantity of salad-oil; 
cover the fish with a well-oiled sheet of paper, and set 
the pan in the oven to bake. Meanwhile shred four large 
onions and fry them in a gill of good oil to a nice brown 
colour. When the soles are done dish up, drain the 
onions and mix them with the liquor o? the fish, pour it 
over the soles, and serve after having squeezed the juice of 
half a lemon over them. 

480. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA LIVOURNAISE. 

Trim and clean two soles in the usual way ; place them 
in a sautd-pan with a gill each of white wine, good vinegar, 
and broth. Season properly with salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
chopped parsley, mace, and majoram. Cook on a good fire 
for ten minutes, and let them get cold ; after which, fillet 



200 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with a pointed knife and put back in the saut^-pan 
with the bones. Lay on each fillet, with a knife, a 
tablespoonful of raw fish forcemeat (No. 275); add a little 
anchovy batter, the juice of half a lemon, a few slices of 
cooked mushrooms and truffles on each fillet. Cover these 
with a buttered sheet of paper, boil, and place the saut^- 
pan in a very hot oven for a quarter of an hour. Mean- 
while prepare as many slices of buttered toast, cut of the 
same shape as the fillets of soles, and dish up the fillets on 
them, and pour the sauce over the lot before ser%4ng. 

48L SOLES WITH FRIED PARSLEY. 

After having cleaned and trimmed two soles, throw 
them into two quarts of boiling salt water. Meanwhile 
boil the fr}'ing fat, and when the soles are nearly oookefl 
strain and dry them well, then dip them in the frying fat 
with some parsley, and sen^e with a lemon cut in four, 
garnished with the fiied parsley. 

This simple mode of cooking suits any kind of salt-water 
fish, and can be recommended. 

482. HLLETED SOLES. VENITIAN SAUCE. 

Prepare eight fillets of sole and place them in a buttered 
saut^pan; season with salt, pepper, and a little mace, 
moisten with a pint of broth, cover with a buttered paper, 
cook on a quick fire, dish them in a circle, pour over some 
Venitian sauce (No. 206), and serve. 

4S8. SOLES A LA NORHANDE. 

Trim and strip off the black skin of two soles, make a 
good incision along each side of the bone on the skinned 
part of each sole, and clean well ; then butter a saute -pan 
large enough to hold the two soles, strew it with some 
veiy finely chopped onions, previously blanched, lay the soles 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 201 

on these, season with salt and pepper, moisten with half a 
pint of white wine, and cook them in the oven. Mean- 
while have half a pint of fish broth (No. 25) ready made, 
which must be boiled with a gill of wliite wine. Blanch 
separately twelve oysters, twelve mussels, and twelve 
mushroom buttons; fry also twelve smelts and some 
croiitons ready for garnish. When the soles are cooked 
put them on a silver dish and keep hot ; add the liquor 
of the soles, as well as that in which the mussels were 
cooked, to the fish broth, and strain it through a fine 
cloth into a saucepan. Melt two ounces of butter in 
another saucepan, add to it two ounces of flour, stir this 
well over the fire with a wooden spoon, moisten with the 
liquor, and reduce it by boiling for fifteen minutes; then 
strain through a tammy cloth and thicken it with the yolks 
of two eggs. Place the oysters, mussels, and mushrooms 
decoratively on the soles and round them, pour the sauce 
over, and put the dish in the oven for five minutes, taking 
care not to colour the sauce; after which, garnish the 
border of the dish, with the fried smelts and crofltons, then 
serve. 

Crayfish or prawns as well as truffles can also be added 
with advantage to the above garnish. 

484. SOLE WITH WHITE WINE SAUCE. 

Prepare two soles as in No. 433, put them in a buttered 
saut^-pan, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a 
pint of dry white wine, and set them into the oven to bake 
for twenty-five minutes. Meantime melt and mix in a 
stewpan two ounces of very fresh butter with the same 
quantity of fiour, by stirring it over the fire with a wooden 
spoon for two or three minutes; season the same with 
salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; moisten with 
half a pint of w^hite broth, stirring the while. When the 



202 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

soles are cooked pour their liquor into the stewpan, stir, 
and boil gently for one minute; add an ounce of fresh 
butter; stir the sauce off the fire till the butter is well 
melted ; dish up the soles, pour the sauce over, and serY& 



Kemarks on Mullet, Hed and Gret. 

There are two distinct species of red mullet, one 'plain 
red, and the other striped red. There is also another 
species called grey mullet, but these are very common, 
and do not possess the same delicacy and flavour as the 
former. 

Red mullet should never be drawn ; the gills only should 
be taken out, as it is considered that the liver and trail 
are the best part of this fish. 

435. RED MULLET, HAtTRE D'HdXEL. 

Remove the gills of six red mullet; cut off the fins, 
scrape, and dip them quickly in water ; wipe, and if large, 
score them gently across two or three times ; then lay them 
oh a dish and pour over each a tablespoonful of salad-oil ; 
strew an onion cut in small slices, a few sprigs of parsley, 
salt and pepper, say three pinches of each, and let them 
steep so for at least half an hour; then take them out of 
the dish, one by one, shaking and freeing them from the 
oil, onions, and parsley, put them on a gridiron over a clear 
fire for five or six minutes each side, when they must be 
dressed on a hot dish, taking care not to break them, and 
serve with a quarter of a pound of mattre d'hdtel butter 
(No. 226) under and over. 

4d6. RED MULLET, ITALIENNE. 

Trim the mullet as in the foregoing, and lay them 
in a buttered saut6-pan ; season with salt and pepper ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 203 

moisten with half a pint of white wine and a h'ttle esaence 
of mushrooms ; bake in a not too hot oven, taking care to 
baste often. When cooked dish up, have some Italian 
sauce (No. 204) ready, to which add the liquor in which 
the mullet have been cooked, after having previously re- 
duced it a little by a sharp boiling ; add a little essence of 
anchovy (No. 174) and the juice of half a lemon ; stir the 
contents well, then pour it over the fish, and serve. 

437. RED MULLET A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare the red mullet in a saut^-pan as in the fore- 
going; moisten with half a pint of red wine and some 
essence of mushrooms; bake, baste, and dish up in the 
same way; then reduce the liquor in which the fish were 
cooked, and mix it with some Genoise sauce (No. 207), 
a little anchovy butter (No. 161), the juice of half a lemon, 
and pour it over the fish before serving. 

438. RED MULLET IN CASES. 

Spread the mullet in a well-buttered saut^-pan as before, 
season with salt and pepper, moisten with three glasses of 
sherry and a little essence of fish (No. 175). Bake in 
the oven, not forgetting the basting. When properly 
done put them separately in oblong paper cases, made for 
the purpose and saturated with olive-oil, put these on a 
dish and keep hot at the door of the oven. Meanwhile 
add another glass of sherry to the liquor remaining in the 
saut^-pan, stir it in order to detach any glaze that may 
have formed on the sides, add a little essence of anchovy 
(Na 161), the juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of 
blanched and chopped parsley; stir these well together; 
sauce the mullets in their cases with it, spread a little finely 
bruised lobster coral over each, and serva 



204 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



489. 6RET MULLET, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Remove the gills, cut the fins, cleanse the inside, scale, 
wnsh, and wipe three grey mullet; boil for about twenty 
minutes in salted water, strain, and serve with half a pint 
of Hollandaise sauce (Na 184) apart 

Grey mullet can also be prepared in the same way as red 
mullet, viz., Mattre d'Hotel, k Tltalienne, Genoise, and 
Tomato sauce. 



Remarks on WHrriKO. 

This fish may be considered to be thoroughly English, as 
it is caught in great abundance almost all round the coast, 
but it should be eaten as soon as possible after being caught, 
as it is quickly spoilt by packing and travelling. 

440. FRIED WHITING. 

Whiting before being fried should be skinned, and the 
following is the proper way of doing it : — With a cloth in 
your left hand, take a firm hold of the whiting at the back 
part of the head just below the gills, then with a points 
knife in your right hand loosen the skin on each side of 
the fish (just over the upper dorsal fin) by inserting the 
point and pulling the skin off sharp, one side after the 
other. When the fish is skinned and trimmed, turn the 
tail round into its mouth and hook it to its teeth ; then dip 
each fish into some beaten eggs, cover it with fine bread- 
crumbs and fry them in the frying fat, heated beforehand 
for that purpose, sprinkle with salt before dishing them on 
a dish, paper, or napkin, with fried parsley, and serve with 
a lemon cut in four, or either of the following sauces, 
Anchovy, Plain Butter, Shrimp, or Hollandaise. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 205 

441. WHITING BOILED. 

Trim only the number of whiting required, boil in some 
salt water for about seven minutes; after which, dish 
them up on a napkin on a dish and serve with either a 
Tomato, Shrimp, Anchovy, Plain Butter, or Hollandaise 
sauce. 

442. BROILED WHITING. 

Tnm the whiting and slightly score them on both sides, 
rub some oil over each and broil on a gridiron which has 
been previously rubbed with chalk. When done on both 
sides dish up on a napkin and serve with maitre d'hotel 
butter (No. 226) or ravigote (No. 162). 

448. FILLETS OF WHITING, ITAUAN. 

Fillet four whiting, after having removed the skin as 
described in No. 438. Cut each fillet in two and place 
them side by side in a buttered saute-pan ; strew each with 
a little finely chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper, 
pour two ounces of melted butter, and squeeze the juice 
of a lemon over them, cover with a buttei'ed sheet of paper, 
put the lid over the saut^-pan and boil for six or seven 
minutes; after which, remove the lid and paper, dress 
the fish carefully on a dish, pour some Italian sauce (No. 
204), prepared for that purpose, over them, and serve. 

444^ FILLETED WHITING, VENITIAN. 

Fillet four whiting as in No. 443, place these in a deep 
dish, season with salt, pepper, a few sprigs of thyme, two 
bay-leaves, three shalots cut in slices, and a few blades 
of parsley; add one tablespoon ful of good vinegar and 
two of olive-oil. After having let them steep thus for at 
least two hours, drain on a cloth, dip each fillet sepa- 
intely into light-made fr5'ing batter, and throw one after 



2o6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

another into some frying fat, properly heated for that 
purpose. As soon as they have acquired a light-brown 
colour take them out of the fat, lay on a clean cloth 
in order that the gi^ase may be absorbed; dish them in 
a circle on a hot dish, pour some Yenitian sauce over, and 
serve. 

445. FILLETS OF WHITING, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Skin and fillet four whiting as in No. 444 ; place these 
side by side in a large well-buttered gratin-dish; lay a 
border of plain boiled potatoes, chopped fine, round them ; 
season the lot with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg: 
moisten with two ounces of melted butter; squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over the fillets and sprinkle these lightly 
with some fine bread-crumbs ; cover the lot with a buttered 
sheet of paper and set in the oven to bake gently for about 
twenty or twenty-five minutes, before serving. 

 

446. GURNARD A LA GENOISE. 

Cut off the head and fins of two gurnards. Boil the fish 
in water with a little salt and a glass of vinegar; when 
done strain and skin, dish up, and pour some Genoise sauce 
(No. 207) over. Then garnish them round with some quen- 
elles of whiting (No. 275) previously made and cooked in 
the water in which the gurnards were boiled, and serve. 

Note, — Gurnards cooked or baked as above may be 
served with Tomato, Sharp, Eavigote, or Italienne sauce, 
according to taste. 

447. GURNARD A UINDIENNE. 

In the same way as the foregoing, cut off the heads and 
fins of the gurnards ; cleanse and wij^e the fish well and 
then stuff them with some veal stuffing, well seasoned ; 
sew up and score slightly on both sides. Place these 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 207 

fish in a buttered baking-dish or saute-pan; season with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle over some finely chopped 
parsley, moisten with a little broth, some essence of mush- 
rooms and two glasses of sherry, and set these in the oven 
to bake, taking care t6 baste them at least every five 
minutes until they are done, which will take about half 
an hour. Then dress the fish on a dish, cut and pull away 
the thread with which they were sewn, place the dish in 
the open oven, add a little broth to detach the glaze from 
the bottom and sides of the vessel in which the fish were 
cooked, reduce it to a half-glaze and mix it with some 
Indian sauce (No. 185). Add a little essence of anchovies, 
stir it well before pouring over, and serve. 



Eemabks on Bream. 

Bream are taken in large quantities in the Broads and 
rivers of Norfolk during the spring months, and sent from 
there to the great inland towns, where during Lent and 
the Hebrew Passover they are in constant demand, and 
command a good price. 

448. SEA BREAM, HAItRE FHdlEL 

Bream Ls prepai*ed similarly to red mullet (No. 435), and 
can also be cooked and dressed with any other fish sauce, 
according to taste. 

Eemarks on Lahprets. 

Lampreys are in season from March to July, and are 
still considered great delicacies in the London market, 
although they do not possess such a high repute as in 
bygone days. Their average size is from one and a half to 
three pounds. They principally come from the Severn and 
the Thames, but none are in the market during the winter. 



2o8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

440. LAMPREY. MATELOTTE. 

Put two lampreys into an earthen or tin vessel with 
plenty of freezing salt, with which they must be scoured 
well, and afterwards thoroughly washed in several wateis. 
By this means only can they be freed from the slimy 
mucus which adheres to them. Then trim and cut into 
pieces of about three inches long ; place these in a stew- 
pan with a sliced carrot and onion, a little ground mace, 
a dozen pepper-coi-ns, a few sprigs each of th3nne and 
parsley, three bay- leaves, a few button mushrooms, and 
salt. Moisten this with a pint of port wine and let it 
stew gently on a moderate fire till done; then take half 
the liquor in which the fish have been stewed, reduce it in 
a small saucepan with a little brown sauce, add a glass of 
port wine, and as soon as this sauce is reduced to its proper 
consistency add a little butter, a little essence of anchovies, 
and the juice of a lemon. Pass it through a tammy into 
a bain-marie containing the mushrooms at first put with 
the fish ; add two dozen small stewed onions (287) and a 
few quenelles of fish, previously cooked in fish broth. 
Keep these hot, and meantime drain the pieces of lamprey; 
dish them up; pour the sauce over; garnish round with 
the tails of either prawns, shrimps, or crayfish, and serva 

460. LAMPREY. BORDELAISE. 

Cleanse two fine lampreys as in the foregoing; form 
them into a circular shape by fai>tening with a string; 
stew in a pint of claret with the addition of vegetables 
and diied herbs as in the Matelotte, to which two mashed 
cloves of garlic must be added, and as soon as they are 
properly cooked reduce their liquor in a stewpan with a 
similar quantity of brown sauce and a little essence of 
mushrooms to its proper consistency; then add a little 



I 

/ 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 209 

essence of anchovies, a little grated nutmeg, a small 
quantity of cayenne, and the juice of a lemon ; stir this 
well together and pass it through a tammy into a bain- 
marie containing two dozen button mushrooms and the 
tail of a small lobster, pi-operly prepared and cut into 
small dice for that purpose. Dish up the lampreys after 
haying drained them; sauce them over; garnish with a 
border of croAtons fried in butter, and serve. 

461. LAMPREY, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Clean two lampreys as in No. 450, rub them over gently 
with some mixed white spices, place them in an earthen- 
ware pan in a cool place, and let them be for twenty-four 
hours; after which, stew gently with the moisture that 
has run from them, add an ounce of butter and half a 
pint of beef gravy, or enough to cover the fish. When 
nearly done add a glass of port wine, then complete the 
cooking by sprinkling a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
over the fish, and dish up, when properly cooked with their 
liquor, and serve. 

Note, — Lampreys cut in pieces and properly seasoned 
are also made into pies. They are exceedingly good and 
appreciated in Gloucestershire, where they are prepared and 
baked in that style, and eaten cold as well as hot. 



Keuarks on Haddock. 

The weight of this fish varies from two to four pounds. 
Tliey are generally ctired in London by smoking in sawdust 
or burning fir-branches, but the far<famed Scotch " baddies " 
come principally from Findhom, near Aberdeen. 

452. FRESH HADDOCK WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Glenn and wipe two haddocks, boil in salt water for 
about ten minutes, drain, and dish up on a napkin. 



2IO PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and serve with a sauce-boat full of Egg sauce (No. 182) 
apart 

Haddock, when plnin boiled, can be served with any kind 
of fish sauce. 

463. HADDOCK BROILED. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Tcike two haddocks and clean them ; score them four or 
hve times with a sharp knife on both sides, and st^eep 
in a little olive-oil, salt, and pepper, for about an hour; 
after which, place them on a gridiron previously rubbed 
with chalk, and broil gently on a clear fire, taking care 
not to break them in turning over. When done on both 
sides dish up, and serve with Mustard sauce (No. 223) 
in a boat apart 

454 FILLETS OF HADDOCK A LITALIENNE. 

fillet two haddocks, remove the skin by passing a 
pointed knife under the fillet so as to detach the tail end 
of the skin from the flesh of the fish, then by taking a 
firm hold of this detached piece of skin and inserting the 
knife with the edge of the blade turned from you, draw 
the skin towards you and keep moving the knife to and 
fro, at the same time pressing the blade firmly on the 
skin. Having thus removed the skin, cut each fillet in 
two or more, trim, and lay them neatly in a saut^-pan 
with two ounces of clarified butter ; season with salt and 
pepper, squeeze the half of a lemon over them, sprinkle 
half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, cover the lot with 
a well-butt«red paper, and cook for about ten minutea 
on a moderate fire or in the oven ; after which, remove the 
paper, drain the fillets, dish up, and pour some Italian 
sauce (No. 204) over and serve. 

Haddock filleted and cooked as above can be served 
with any other sauce, such as Hollandaise, Genoise, 
Venitienne, &c., &c. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 211 

4^. HAPDO€K AU GRATIN. 

Skin, clean, and wipe two haddocks; place them in a 
gratin-pan or dish previously buttered for that purpose, 
season with salt and pepper, moisten with a gill of white 
wine and the liquor of a pint of tinned champignons ; lay a 
dozen of the mushrooms on the haddocks ; put an ounce of 
butter, divided into eight parts, on the fish ; sprinkle a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and four of raspings 
over the fish, and put the gratin-pan in a well-heated oven 
for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on the same dish. 

456. HADDOCK FRIED. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Prepare this in the same manner as fried whiting 
(No. 240), and serve with plain Butter sauce. 

467. hlleted haddock, citizen style, with 
kaItre d*h6tel sauce. 

Prepare this in the same way as fillets of whiting 
(No. 44s)f ^^^ serve with Mattre d'Hdtel sauce apart. 

Smoked haddocks should not be broiled but boiled, as 
any impurity that may be attached to the fish when bought 
is thereby at once removed. 

468. SMOKED HADDOCK. 

Trim one or more haddocks and place them in a pan 
covered with lukewarm water. Boil ; and after one minute 
of ebullition drain the fish well, dish up, lay a little fresh 
butter on it, and serve very hot. 

469. SMOKED HADDOCK, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Trim and boil two haddocks as in No. 458, and then skin 
and bone them carefully ; then chop them into small dice, 
and mix these well with a pound and a half of boiled 



212 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

potatoes, piiBviously cooked and rubbed through a wire 
sie^e ; season with pepper, a little cayenne, and nutmeg ; 
lay the mixture on a gratin-dish, nicely shaped ; melt two 
ounces of fresh butter, mix with it the yolks of two eggs 
properly beaten, and pour it over the fish, with a few 
pieces of butter in addition ; then set the dish in a mode- 
rately heated oven for about ten or twelve minutes, or till 
it is of a nice golden -brown colour, and serve. 



Remarks on Herring& 

Fresh herrings are very nutritious, but ought to be 
eaten only when full of roe, as they lose much of their 
quality when otherwise. 

400. FRESH HERRINGS. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Cut off the heads and fins of four herrings; clean, 
scrape, and wash them well ; score them in the same way 
as broiled grey mullets or whiting ; then place on a dish, 
season with salt, pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of salad- 
oil, and after having let them steep for half an hour put 
them on a gridiron to broil for four or five minutes on 
each side; then dress them on a dish and serve with 
Mustard sauce (No. 223) apart. 

461. FRESH HERRINGS FRIED WITH PLAIN BUTTER 

SAUCE. 

Prepare some herrings as in No. 460 ; steep in milk ; 
flour and bread-crumb them ; fry in boiling fat ; and serve 
with plain Butter sauce apai*t. 



Remarks on Halibut. 

Halibut is only to be found on the northern coasts, and 
groAvs to an enormous size, 200 lbs. being their ordinary 
weight, llieir season is March, April, and May. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 213 

462. HALIBUT. OYSTER SAUCE. 

This fish is prepared and cooked in every way as cod, 
oyster sauce (No. 405). 

It can also be fried (this being the mode the Jews eat it 
the most), baked, broiled, and served with any fish sauce 
(see Cod). 

Kemarks on Plaice, Flounders, &c. 

Plaice, flounders, and dabs are flatfishes, like soles, tur- 
bot, and halibut They are generally plentiful in the market 
duiing their proper season, which is spring ; they are caught 
in great quantities in the Thames. 

463. PLAICE, FLOUNDERS, AND DABS, FRIED. 

These fish are prepared in every respect as halibut or 
haddock. 



Remarks on Conger Eels. 

Conger eels'ai-e found principally on the sea-coasts of the 
south of England and Ii'eland ; they are sometimes of an 
enormous size, weighing as much as a hundred pounds. 
The flesh of the big fish is rather tough and coarse, but the 
smaller fish can be prepared in the same way as fresh- 
water eels, although they are not so delicate and nutritious. 

Conger is in season from March to October. 

464. CONGER EEL. HAtlRE D'HdlEL SAUCE. 

Take a piece of conger eel weighing about two pounds ; 
cleanse it most carefully; wash and tie it round with 
string, and blanch in boiling salt water for ten minutes ; 
drain, and put it in a stewpan ; cover it with water, add 
two sliced onions, a handful of parsley, two bay-leaves, n 



214 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

glass of vinegar, one clove of garlic, and season with salt 
and pepper ; let it simmer for half an hour ; after which, 
drain and dress on a dish, and serve with Maitre d'Hotel 
sauce (No 159) apart 

465. CONGER EEL, ROASTED. 

Cleanse, skin, and wash a piece of conger eel weighing 
about three pounds ;. pla(;e this in a dish, with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, a gill of salad-oil, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, 
two spiigs of thyme, a sliced onion, and small carrot, to 
steep for about two hours. After this, put the fish in a 
buttered baking-pan ; cover with a buttered or oiled 
paper and bake it in a hot oven for half an hour or till 
well coloured ; then put it on a very hot dish, remove the 
grease or fat from the pan in which it was baked ; put in 
the pan a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a gill of 
Spanish sauce (No 151), and the juice of a lemon ; stir this 
well on the fire, and after boiling for a few minutes pour 
over the fish and serve. 



Bemarks OS Fresh-water EsLa 

There are three or four distinct species of fresh-water 
eels found in this country. The most common of these are 
the sharp-nosed and the broad-nosed eels, inhabiting and 
abounding in all fresh-waters throughout Europe, and in 
short in almost every part of the world except the Arctic 
regions. The eel will live a long time out of water, and 
migrate from place to place by crawling overland ; but the 
strangest part of all iu the construction of this fish is, that 
it possesses a heart located in its tail. 

Eels vary in size, some weighing over ten pounds, but 
usLiallv from one to three. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 215 



466. STEWED EELS, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Eels are generally alive when brought into the kitchen ; 
it is therefore necessary, on account of their tenacity of life, 
to know an easy way of killing them ; this is done by merely 
inserting the point of a sharp instrument into the spine at 
the back of the head to the depth of an inch, when the eel 
will become perfectly motionless. Then scour the fish well 
with freezing salt, in order to remove the slimy mucus 
attached to the skin ; after which, with a cloth in your left 
hand take a firm hold of the eel's head, and with the right 
hand proceed to detach the skin just below the gills with 
the point of a small kuife. When this is done take hold 
of the loosened skin with your right hand and force it to 
slide off the fish ; cut off the head, lay the fish flat on the 
table, and with the same pointed knife open it from one 
extremity to the other by pressing the point of the blade 
against the backbone on both sides ; remove the gut, dec, 
trim away the fins, clean and wipe thoroughly both halves 
of the fish after having taken the bone out, then cut the 
eel into pieces of about three inches long, place them in 
a stewpan^ with a sliced carrot and onion, a few sprigs of 
parsley and thyme, a few pepper-corns, four cloves, a blade 
of mace, and a little salt. Moisten the lot with half a bottle 
of port wine, cover with a buttered paper and replace the 
lid on the stewpan ; set this on the stove-fire to stew gently 
for about twenty minutes ; after which drain, and trim the 
pieces, keeping their liquor to make the sauce, by melting 
two ounces of butter into a small stewpan. When this is 
done add two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir it over the 
fire with a wooden spoon until it becomes slightly coloured, 
then moisten gradually with the liquor in which the eels 
were stewed ; add to it a gill or two of good stock and two 



2i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

glasses of port wine ; stir this sauce over the fire till it 
boils, when it must be drawn to the comer of the stove, in 
oinler to let it throw up gently the scum, which must be 
skimmed off; then, if necessary, reduce the sauce to its 
proper consistency, pass it through a tammy into the stew- 
pan containing the pieces of eel, add a few prepared 
mushroom buttons, a pat of fresh butter, a little blanched 
and chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy ; toss the whole well 
together over the fire till well mixed and boiling, then dish 
the eel up, pour the remainder of the sauce over it, garnish 
round with croiitons fiied in butter, and serve. 



467. EEL XATELOTTE. 

Prepare a nice-sized eel as in No. 466, cut it into pieces 
of three inches long, and place them in a saut^-pan with 
two ounces of butter, the half of an onion chopped fine, 
and half a tablespoon ful of chopped parsley. Season with 
salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, one clove of garlic, and two 
bay-leaves; set these on the fire to brown a little; after 
which, sprinkle a tablespoonful of flour; fry for two 
minutes longer, stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; 
then moisten with half a bottle of red wine (claret. 
Burgundy, or Italian) and half a pint of stock; let it 
simmer for twenty-five minutes, and put the pieces of eel 
on a dish in a circular order, so that each piece rests on 
tlie other, viz., a slice of croiiton and a piece of eel, and so 
on. Then pass the sauce thiough a tammy into a stewpan, 
add a little anchovy butter, together with the juice of a 
lemon ; stir this on the fire till it boils, fill up the centre 
of the dish with two dozen button onions (No. 287), pre- 
viously stewed and glazed for that purpose, pour the sauce 
over the lot, and serre. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 217 

468. EEL MILANAISE. 

Skin, bone, and cleanse two eels as previously described ; 
cut tbem in pieces about two incbes long and brown tbem 
nicely in butter, properly seasoned witb salt and pepper, 
for eight minutes ; after which, take tlieni out, squeeze the 
juice of two lemons over them, sprinkle each with some 
fine herbs and mace, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry 
them in clarified butter. When properly done dish up 
the pieces on a napkin and serve very hot, with a sharp 
sauce to taste, apai^t. 

469. nLLET OF EEL, FRIED. TARTARE SAUCE. 

Fillet two eels of about one and a half poiuid each in 
the usual way. Steep these in boiling water for four 
minutes, then rub the outside of the fillets well with a 
cloth, in oixler to remove the second oily skin ; cut them 
in pieces thi'ee inches long, put them in a stewpan with 
enough water to cover th6 lot, add a glass of vinegar, 
a sliced onion and carrot, a "bouquet garni/' salt, and a 
dozen pepper-corns. Simmer for twenty minutes; after 
which, let the eels cool for half an hour in the liquor ; 
then drain, and place them on a cold dish. Mix in a basin 
two eggs with a tablespoonful each of oil and water, beat 
this with a fork as for an omelet, then dip each piece of 
eel in it; bread -ciumb them afterwards, and fry in hot 
fat, previously heated for that purpose, till of a nice brown 
colour; then dish them up on a napkin garnished with 
fried parsley, and serve with Tailare sauce (No. 221) in a 
sauce-boat apart. 

470. COLLARED EEL (COLD). 

Skin, bone, and cleanse as described two eels of about 
two pounds each ; lay each half flat on the table, the inside 



2i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

up; sprinkle these with salt, pepper, nutmeg, fine herbs, 
and ground mace. Roll them up tightly, fold each roll 
in white kitchen paper, and tie them round with string; 
place in a saucepan with a quaint of ordinary stock, a 
sliced onion and carrot, one stick of celery, a "bouquet 
garni,'' salt and pepper to taste, two glasses of sherry, and 
a quarter of a pound of, calf's gelatine. Boil this for half 
an hour, then strain the liquor through a tammy into a 
babiu; take the packets of eel out and let them cool, as 
well as the liquor, which will turn into a jelly. When 
cold untie and remove the paper from each eel; lay on 
a dish, and decorate with the jelly aforesaid and a few 
sprigs of parsley well washed and dried. This is a delicious 
and not expensive mode of preparing eels ; they will keep 
seveml days in cold water. 



Hemarks ok Smelts. 

Smelts are great favourites in dinner memiSy and are 
also often used by cooks as a garnish to other fi.sb, 
although I do not advocate their employment as such. 
Smelts ait) in season from September to May. 

471. SMELTS, FRIED. 

Take the smelts, pull out the gills carefully, trim the 
fins, and wipe the fish with a doth. Then steep them in 
milk and flour them, or else flour them first and pass 
through beaten eggs, and afterwards put them in fine 
bread-crumbs. Fry in some pi-operly heated lai-d or fat 
till of a nice colour and crisp ; dish up on a napkin ; 
garnish >vith fried parsley, and serve with a lemon cut 
in four. 

Note, — The above mode is generally the one used to serve 
smelts, but they can also be dressed au gratin, in which 



Pl^CTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 219 

case the larger ones are preferable. Proceed as for sole au 
gratin (No. 428). 



Remabks on Whitebait. 

It is said that whitebait is the rich man's fish, beginning 
when Parliament meets, and finishing when Parliament 
Adjoui-n& The fact is, that its season proper is from 
February to August. There are many controversies on 
the subject of whitebait, as to whether it is the fry of 
other fish or a distinct species of fish. 

Mr. Fi*ank Buckland tells us that whitebait is nothing 
else but the fry of sprats, herrings, gobies, weevers, sand- 
eels, smelts, pipe-fish, sticklebacks, and gore-bills. Be this 
so or not, whitebait has now become a valuable article 
of food, but owing io its extreme delicacy, it cannot be 
conveyed any great distance without injury ; neither can 
it be kept fresh many hours after it has been caught. 



472. WHITEBAIT. 

The following is the only mode of properly cooking 
whitebait : — Drain it on a clean cloth so that all the water 
is thoroughly absorbed, but abstain as much as possible 
from handling so delicate a fish. Then roll them in flour 
and place them on a coarse sieve to remove any excess of 
flour, by gently shaking them. Then drop them into well- 
heated frying fat (lard preferred) of about 400° Fahrenheit 
temperature, and as soon as they become crisp (which will 
be in about one minute, and is shown by the whity-brown 
colour) drain on a sieve for a minute or so. Sprinkle on 
a little salt ; dish up on a napkin on a hot dish, and serve 
with quarters of lemon, cayenne pepper, and cut brown 
bread and butter on plates npart. 



220 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Bemarks on Sprats. 

These small fish might be employed to better advnnlnge 
and be a source of great income to fishermen were their 
monetaiy value better understood ; in fact, sprats ought to 
be placed among the most beneficial and profitable fish 
caught, for by proper care and management they could bo 
turned into food, sauce, and paste, as well as manure. 
The latter form of using them, however, would very ,soon 
be discarded if their different modes and preparation as 
an accessory to food were known. 

Sprats can be preserved in the same manner as anchovies 
and made into paste sauce and butter (see Anchovy Butter). 
They can also be preserved in oil, in the same way as 
sardines in tins (and this should be an industry in it^lf), 
but very often ai'e sold, I am son-y to say, with the brand 
of the latter name. Therefore if spi'ats are offei-ed and 
sold to the public under different forms and names, their 
quality is appreciated, and should be so recognised and dealt 
with under their proper name, when they would, as a matter 
of course, very soon assume their real commercial value. 

473. SPRATS, BROILED. 

Clean and wipe the sprats (which must be fresh) in a 
coarse cloth, in order to remove the scales by gently 
rubbing the fish ; place them afterwards on a giidiix>n 
and broil over a brisk fire for two minutes on each side ; 
sprinkle with salt, and serve on a very hot dish with a little 
melted butter poured over. 

474. SPRATS, FRIED. 

Clean and wipe the sprats as in the foregoing, and follow 
the directions given for smelts fried (No. 471). 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 221 



475. SPRATS AU GRATIN. 

After having cleaned and nibbed the largest sprats as 
described, proceed as for haddock au gratin (No. 455). 

476. SPRATS, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Prepare the sprats in the usual way ; butter a baking- 
dish ; mix well in a basin a teaspoouful of fine herbs, a 
little nutmeg, salt, pepper, and a quarter of a pound of 
bread-crumbs; strew the bottom of the baking-dish with this 
mixture, then arrange a layer of sprats, sprinkle on these 
some of the bread-crumb mixture, and so on, for throe 
layers of sprats ; moisten with half a pint of good stock, 
sprinkle the remainder of the bread-crumbs over, put on 
the top a few pats of butter the size of a nut, and place 
the dish in a well-heated oven to bake for about half an 
hour ; and before serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
them. 



Remarks ox Lobsters, Crabs, and Crawfish. 

Norwegian and Scotch lobsters are the best that come 
into the London market. They are known by the texture 
of their shells and are dark in colour. 

Those coming from the Channel Islands and south co«aRt 
are light in colour and thin of shell, and seldom stand the 
journey, most of them dying on the way. These southern 
lobsters are, however, very sweet and delicate in flavour, 
if cooked immediately after being caught. 

In buying lobsters the heaviest should be selected, and 
the medium-sized ones are generally the best. 

Lobsters should be boiled while alive by dropping them 
into boiling water with a little salt. The time to cook 



222 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the same varies according to size ; small lobster will take 
twenty minutes and a large one three-quarters of an hour. 

Crabs make nice dishes when properly cooked and 
decorated; the best are caught on the south coast of 
Devonshire, and often run very large in size, some having 
weighed twelve and three-quarter pounds. Those from the 
north, especially from Scotland, are much smaller, and at 
times very sweet. 

Crabs should be killed before being boiled or they are 
likely to shoot off their claws ; you kill them by stabbing 
them through under the tail with either a trussing-needle 
or ice-prick. 

Crawfish are treated in the same way as lobsters ; those 
from the Scilly Isles, Cornwall, and Channel Islands are the 
best 

477. PLAIN BOILED LOBSTERS, CRABS, AND 

CRAWnSH. 

Lobsters, crabs, and crawfish can always be obtained 
ready cooked, and are generally eaten with oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper, or with a Mayonnaise saucei 

478. LOBSTER A L'AHERICAINE. 

Select a couple of live hen lobsters; take a firm hold 
of them by the back with the left hand ; spread the tails 
over the kitchen-table and cut them across in scollops 
about an inch and a half thick ; cut the body in half, length- 
wise ; save the residue liquid and the black part forming the 
eggs or coral by putting them into a basin ; break off the 
claws from the shell ; cut the large ones in two ; then with 
the back of a large kitchen-knife or chopper break the 
shells, without, however, separating them, so as to facOitate 
removing the flesh when cooked ; trim the other small ones 
and cut the body-shells again in two; put the lot in a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 223 

Baut^-pan with half a gill of oliv&oil previously made hot 
and a few sprigs of thjme ; toss these over a brisk fire for 
about five minutes. When the pieces of lobsters will have 
assumed a red colour, sprinkle one onion and two shalots 
chopped fine; stir the contents over the fire for another 
^ye minutes ; then add half a gill of brandy and set fire 
to it ; stir for a few seconds to feed the flames ; after which, 
moisten with half a pint of white dry wine and two fresh 
tomatoes, peeled and chopped ; season with salt and pepper, 
and simmer for ten minutes longer, taking care to turn the 
pieces over. Meanwhile melt two ounces of fresh butter 
in a small stewpan ; add the residue mixture, with a few 
sprigs of chervil, tarragon, and a pounded bay-leaf; stir 
this gently by the side of the fire till it boils; sprinkle 
a small pinch of cayenne pepper; stir and add the same 
to the lobster ; mix the lot well together over the fire, and 
when ready dish up the pieces of lobsters, pour the sauce 
over, and serve. 

Note. — ^The above recipe, together with a few good and 
practical hints on cookery, was given to me by my old 
friend Mr. T. Gamier, for the last twelve years chef at 
the Caf^ Koyal, Regent Steet, to whom I herewith convey 
my most humble and grateful thanks. 



Remarks on Trout. 

There are several species of trout. Some are called 
salmon-trout and migrate to the sea; their flesh is of a 
pink rosy colour, and in taste differ but slightly from 
young salmon. Their weight varies from three to sixteen 
pounda Others are non-migratory, live in lakes, riverS| 
and streams, and the colder and more rapid the water the 
better the fish. The flesh is almost white and very delicate ; 



224 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the usual weight seldom exceeds three pounds, although 
there have been instances of common trout having been 
caught in lakes and rivers weighing fifteen pounds. 
The season for trout is from ^larch to September. 

479. TROUT A LTTALIENNE. 

Remove the inside of two trout, through the gills, with- 
out cutting the fish; cut off the fins, wash and wipe the 
trout, and boil in salt water and a glass of vinegar for 
six minutes or more, according to the size of the fish; 
drain and divest of the skin, and lay them on a dish 
and keep hot. Meanwhile add to half a pint of Italian 
sauce (No. 205), previously made for that purpose, a pat of 
anchovy butter, a little nutmeg, and lemon-juice; work 
this well together, and pour over the fish before serving. 

480. TROUT A LA MEUNlilRE. 

Cleanse, trim, wash, and wipe two or more tnnit. 
Score these three times on each side and pass them through 
the flour, taking care to shake them well, before putting 
in a frying-pan with three ounces of cLarified butter; add 
a teaspoon ful of blanched and chopped parsley, as well 
as the juice of two lemons, and when the fish is nicely 
coloured on both sides, serve on a hot dish with the 
remainder of clarified butter poured over it. 

481. TROUT A L'AURORE. 

Boil, skin, and trim the trout; then place on a silver 
or gratin-dish, mask each fish with reduced Allemande 
sauce (No. 156), lay a fine wire sieve across the dish, with- 
out touching the fish ; then rub with a wooden spoon the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs over each fish through the 
sieve, taking care that the curling shreds cover the sur* 



J 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 225 

face of each trout equally. About half an hour before 
serving, put them in the oven to get a fine amber hue; 
after which, pour round the trout some sauce made as 
follows : — Put half a pint of B^hamel sauce (Na 154) into 
a bain-marie, add to it a pat of lobster butter, the yolks 
of three eggs properly beaten, a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, and a little cayenne ; mix these well together with 
a small whisk or wooden spoon into the bain-mane before 
pouring out, and finish by making a border with two dozen 
mussels fiied in batter. 

482. BROILED TROUT. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Clean and split a trout at the back, oil it over, season 
with nutmeg, salt, and pepper; then half an hour after, 
broil it over a moderately hot fire, and when done serve 
with some Hollandaise e>auce (No. 184) in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

Note, — ^Trout can be prepared in every variety of form 
and style in which salmon is dressed and served. 



Eemarks on Pike or Jack. 

This fish, which might be called the w^ater-wolf or fresh- 
water shark on account of its voraciousness and cannibalism, 
can in that respect be compared to the conger eel. 

Pike will feed on ducklings, and any sort of fish, as 
well as on its own species, and is not at all particular as 
to size of its victim, as there are examples of two pike 
weighing some nineteen pounds having been caught alive, 
fastened firmly together, the head of one within the mouth 
and jaws of the other. 

Pike are the largest of fresh-water fish, some having been 
caught w^eighing as much as sixty pounds and measuring 



226 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

nearly four feet in length. Of course, fish of that size 
are scarce, but the general weight varies from five to nine 
pounds, and the latter are the best for culinary purposes. 
The flesh is white, firm, and rather pleasing to the palate 
when properly prepared ; but the roe causes a disagreeable, 
nauseous feeling, and should never be eaten. 



488. PIKE A LA LTONNAISE AU BLEU. 

The larger the pike the better for this dish, and it will 
improve if kept two days in a cool place after being caught. 
Scale,* draw the gills, cut off the fijis, and thoroughly 
cleanse and wipe the pike; then with a string tie the 
head, and truss the fish into the shape of the letter 8. 
Afterwards put the fish in the kettle covered with " Court 
Bouillon" (No. 392), and simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour ; then take the fish-kettle to a cool place, let the pike 
remain in the liquor for at least twelve hours ; if twenty- 
four all the better, as there is no comparison in the taste 
and quality of a pike that has soaked for twenty-four hours 
and one that has only been in the *^ Court Bouillon " for a 
couple of hours. When wanted, take up the fish very 
carefully from the strainer and lay it on a dish with the 
same care, remove the string, decorate with a few sprigs 
of fresh parsley, and mobten with a pint of sauce made 
with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, well mixed togetlier, in quantity of two- 
ihii*ds oil to one of vinegar. 

Note, — Pike cooked in the same way may also be served 
with Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce (Nos. 218 or 221). 

* The easiett way to remove the scales of pike is by placing the fish 
in a sink and pour some boiliu^ water over it, when the toraping will 
be effectually dune. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 227 

484. BOILED PIKE. ITALIAN SHARP SAUCE. 

After having scaled, cleansed, and wiped a nice pike, tie 
it up in the same way as in the foregoing, and boil it in 
a "Court Bouillon" (No. 392) for about fifty minutes, 
more or less, according to the size of the fish ; after 
which, let it rest and cool in the liquor for twenty-four 
hours. 

When the time comes for warming the fish, drain it, 
pour the " Court Bouillon " into another vessel, clean the 
kettle, and replace the liquor with the pike in it, to warm 
for about twenty minutes, without, however, letting it boil ; 
then drain, and dish up on a napkin, remove the string, 
and send to table with some Italian sharp sauce (No. 205) 
in a sauce-boat apart. 

Note. — Pike cooked in the above manner may be served 
with any fish sauce, according to taste. 

486. PIKE BAKED, CITIZEN STTLE. 

Prepare a large pike in the same manner as described 
above; fill the paunch with some well-seasoned veal stuffing, 
sew it up with a trussing-needle and fine string, truss as 
before specified in the form of the letter S, make several 
deep incisions on both sides of the fish, and place in a 
baking- dish seasoned with two chopped shalots, one table- 
spoonful of parsley, and two of mushrooms, salt, pepper, 
and half a dozen cloves ; add between six and eight ounces 
of fresh butter, half a bottle of cooking sherry, and half 
a pint of good stock. Cover the lot with a well-buttered 
paper, and put the fish thus prepared in a well- heated 
oven to bake for about an hour, taking care to frequently 
baste it with its liquor. When done dish up, pour two 
glasses more of sherry, in order to detach all the glaze 



228 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and herbs from the bottom and sides of the baking-dish 
in which the fish has been baked; pass thLs through a 
tammy into a small stewpan in which half a pint of good 
brown sauce has previously been warmed, mix and reduce 
the whole to a proper consistency ; add one ounce of fresh 
butter, a teaspoon ful of anchovy essence, the juice of a 
lemon, and a little cayenne ; mix this well together on the 
stove, and pour over the fish before serving, having pre- 
viously removed the string. 

486. PIKE IN QUENELLE& 

Prepare two or three pounds of pike in quenelles (see 
Fish Forcemeat, No. ^75) in the following manner : — When 
cold, lay the forcemeat in large spoonfuls separately on the 
table, roll these with your hands into the shape of sausages, 
and cook them by poaching in ordinary boiling stock for 
five or six minutea Meanwhile have a pint of good re- 
duced Veloute sauce (No. 153) ready and hot; when the 
quenelles are properly poached, strain and put them in a 
bowl or deep dish ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

Note, — Pike, previous to being made into forcemeat, 
should be filleted, and the following is the proper mode 
of operation. The smaller fish should be used for this 
purpose : — Lay the fish on the table with its back towards 
you, insert the knife below the gill with your left hand, 
press lightly on the upper part of the fish, then draw 
the knife down close to the backbone till the fillet is 
removed; repeat the same thing on the other side, and 
lay the fillets on the table with the skin downward ; insert 
the edge of the knife close to the skin at the extreme end, 
draw it to and fro, in keeping the blade closely pressed to 
the skin, when it will detach itself from the filleU 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 229 

Remarks on Percii^ 

The perch is one of the most beautiful fish. Its colour is 
golden bronze, transversed with bars of dark green, the 
whole shaded with a lovely iridescence, and fins of a splendid 
red tinge as seen sometimes in old-st.ained glass. 

Its flesh is much appreciated by epicures, as witness 
"water souchet" as served at ministerial dinners and 
large banquets. It seldom weighs more than two pounds, 
although some have been caught in the Norfolk Broads 
weighing as much as four and a half pounds. 

487. PERCH, FRIED. 

Remove the gills, scale, and thoroughly cleanse the 
perch; prick them slightly on both sides, and place 
in a dish with a little salad-oil, salt, pepper, the juice of 
two lemons, an onion shred fine, and half a spoonful of 
chopped parsley ; let the fish pickle for an hour, then wipe 
and flour them in the usual way, fry in a properly heated 
fat to a nice colour, and serve very hot with quarters 
of lemon. 

488. PERCH, GARDENER STYLE. 

Cleanse the perch as in the foregoing; clean also a 
handful of parsley-roots, and boil for half an hour in a 
quart of salted water; after which, throw the perch in and 
boil for five or six minutes longer ; then dress in a dish 
with some of the liquor ; spread the roots on the fish, and 
serve with melted butter and boiled potatoes apart 

489. PERCH AU GRATIN. 

After having cleansed and scaled three or four perch in 
the usual way, put them in a saute-pan properly buttered, 



230 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and a little salt sprinkled over. Moisten with two glasses 
of sherry, and cover with a buttered sheet of paper. 
Boil on the stove, and afterwards put them into a 
moderately heated oven to bake for ten minutes, taking 
care to baste them meanwhile two or three times ; trans- 
fer carefully to a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle over them 
some fine herbs ; mix the remainder of the liquor in which 
the fish was baked with a gill of Spanish sauce (Na 151), 
and pour it over; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, set on the 
oven to gratin for ten or twelve minutes, and serve. 

400. PERCH A LA VENITTENNE. 

When the number of perch required have been thoroughly 
cleansed, as described in the previous numbers, boil them 
in "Court Bouillon*' (No. 392) for seven or eight minutes; 
dish up in a row, moisten with some Yenitienne sauce (No. 
206), and serve. 

401. HLLETS OF PERCH A L'lTALIENNE. 

The filleting of perch is done in the same way as that of 
pike. Lay the fillets in a saut^-pan with some clarified 
butter; season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and 
lemon-juice. Set the fillets to simmer on the fire for 
about ten minutes, and when thoroughly done drain on a 
cloth, dish up in the form of a circle, pour some Italian 
sauce (No. 204) over, and send to table. 

Fillets of perch thus prepared can also be served with 
any other fish sauce, from which the dish will take its 
name, viz., k la Hollandaise, k la Havigotte, &c., kc 

492. FILLETS OF PERCH A LA ROHAINE. 

Prepare a dozen fillets of perch in the usual manner; 
pickle these for an hour as for perch fried, wipe and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 231 

flour in the same way, then pass them through some yolks 
of eggs well heaten and salted ; fry in olive- oil till of a 
nice colour; drain, and dish up in a circle, pour some 
Tomato sauce (No. 217) over them, after having mixed 
with it a pat of anchovy hutter, and serve. 

408. PERCH, ANGLER'S STYLE. 

Take the perch as caught by the river-side, not drawn 
or otherwise cleaned. Procure some stiff clay, and with it 
give the fish a thin coating of about the sixteenth of an 
inch thick. Having previously lighted a fire of wood, so 
as to produce a quantity of hot-fire -holding embers and 
cinders, bury the fish in it for about twenty minutes or 
more, according to the size, when it will be baked and 
found to eat to perfection. 

Note, — Any other kind of fresh- water fish can be cooked 
in this style. Anglers, when out for the day, will find it 
worth trying. For their particular benefit the recipe is 
included, and to them it is dedicated. 



Remarks on Carp. 

Carp caught in rapid waters are held in high estimation, 
especially on the Continent ; but those found in stagnant 
waters and feeding on muddy food have a very muddy 
flavour. To prevent this taste from being so pronounced, 
carp should, after being taken out of a pond, be placed in 
running water in a box (with plenty of perforated holes) 
before being cooked. No doubt the monks had in olden 
times some excellent recipes for cooking carp, but these 
must have been lost with the destruction of their orders and 
monasteries. 

Carp live to a very great age, some say for centuries, 



232 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and reach the weight of twenty- five pounds; at least 
some were caught of that weight. The ilesh of the carp 
is of a white-rosy colour, rather indigestible, and it requires 
to be cooked in well-seasoned sauces. 

It is absolutely necessary when cleaning the fish to ex- 
tract an angular substance called the gall-stone, which is 
located at the back of the head. If not removed it will 
impart a bitter taste and render the best fish almost unfit 
for table. 

404. CARP A LA B0URGI6N0NE. 

Take two carp of three or four pounds each ; scald them 
to enable the scales to be removed more efiiciently ; draw 
through the gills, and clean thoroughly. Place them 
in a saut^-pan with half a bottle of Burgundy, a gill 
of brown sauce, the same quantity of good stock, four 
shalotfl, two cloves, a blade of mace, a little thyme, one 
bay -leaf, a few tnmmings of mushrooms, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Set this to stew gently on the fire for 
about twenty minutes; then take the fish out carefully 
and dish them up ; pass the liquor through a fine-pointed 
strainer into a small saucepan; boil it; draw it on the 
side of the stove; if not of its proper consistency as a 
sauce, skim it and reduce it by boiling again ; then pour 
it over the carp and ser\'e. 

405. CARP A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Prepare two or more carp as in No. 494 ; stew them in 
white wine with salt and pepper for twenty minutes, and 
then drain and dish up. Meanwhile prepare some peri- 
gueux butter (No 167); add to it a gill of good stock or 
brown sauce, a pat of anchovy butter, and the juice of a 
lemon. Stir this well together on the fire, an4 pour it 
over the fish l)efore sending to the table. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 233 

496. FRIED CARP. 

For tbis mode small (isli should be used. Clean, scale, 
draw, and wipe six carp; split down the liack and open 
flat ; season with salt and pepper, dip them in flour, and 
fry to a nice colour; dish tbem up, garnish round with 
fried parbley, and serve with quarters of lemon. 

497. CARP STEWED, ENOUSH FASHION. 

For dressing carp in this way, see the directions fcr 
stewing eel, English style (No. 466). 

498. CARP A LA SICILIENNE. 

Prepare two or three nice carp in the usual way ; put 
them in a kettle with enough " Court Bouillon " (No. 392) 
to boil for ten or twelve minutes ; put the kettle aside in 
a cool place, and when the liquor is quite cold draw out 
the flsh ; remove the liquor in order to enable the kettle 
to be cleaned ; after which, replace the fish in it with the 
" Court Bouillon ; " set this to warm gently, without boiling, 
for twenty minutes ; then drain and dish up the fish ; pour 
some Sicilian sauce (No. 211) over, and serve. 

499. TENCH. 

This fish, being somewhat similar to the carp, may be 
dressed in the various modes in which that flsh is pre- 
pared. Both kinds make excellent matelotte, and it is not 
unusual to prepare such a dish with carp, tench, and eel, 
all mixed and stewed together. 



23^ PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKF.RY. 



Beharks on Barbel. 

The barbel may be considered to be a water-pig, as its 
habits and mode of living in the water are very much like 
those oi a pig on land. It cannot be classed as good food, 
as its eggs are said to be poisonous and to produce the 
same symptoms as bella-donna. 

500. BARBEL BROILED. MAITRE D H6T£L BUTTER. 

Cleanse, scale, and wipe the inside of two barbel very 
carefully ; score them three or four times on each side ; 
steep for half an hour in .four tablespoon fuls of olive- 
oil ; season with salt and pepper ; and twenty minutes 
before serving broil them on a moderate fire for eight or 
ten minutes each side ; dish up on a hot dish, and serve 
with some maitre d'hotel butter (No. 226) in the usual 
way. 

Barbel can also be fried as well as baked, and served 
with either Sharp or Bavigote sauce. 



CHAPTER IX. 

REMARKS ON BEEP. 

There is a prevailing idea in England that beef should bo 
eaten either grilled or roasted ; this is a great mistake, as 
there are many cuts and difPerent parts, as described at the 
beginning of this work, which could not with credit to the 
cook be prepared in those ways, I will therefore give the 
different modes I consider best suited for each part. 

601. ROUND OF BEEF BOILED EN6USH FASHION. 

Procure a piece of pickled round or silver-side of beef, 
weighing about eight pounds. Put this, after having washed 
it, into a pot with enough cold water to cover it welL Boil 
it; skim the scum as it rises to the surface; then drop 
in three or four whole carrots, two large onions with two 
cloves stuck in each, and, if handy, two heads of oeler}' ; 
let the pot simmer by the side of the stove for two hours, 
and add four whole turnips. Let the simmering be con- 
tinued for another hour, then add the quarters of a small 
cabbage ; boil gently again for an hour — making in all four 
hours' boiling ; after which, strain the beef, and dress it on 
a large hot dish, with the cooked vegetables as a garnish, 
alternately placed with half a dozen small suet dumplings, 
and serve. 

602. BRISKET OF BEEF-ECARLATE. 

Briskets, like rounds of beef, are generally obtained from 
the butcher, all ready pickled, but that is not the proper way 

»35 



236 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of salting or curing them : this must be effected in the follow- 
ing manner : — Mix well together in a pan a brine composed 
of six pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of salt- 
petre, half a pound of moist sugar, two bruised bay-leaves, 
half a teaspoon ful of thyme, and same quantity of winter- 
savory and sweet marjoram, also three blades of mace and 
twelve cloves. Take a brisket of beef well covered with 
fat, bone it ; use the bones for the stock. Rub the brisket 
well with the mixture for three or four minutes each day 
for five days in succession, taking care, in laying it on 
the brine in a cool place, that it should rest on tho 
opposite side each day; then simply turn it over once 
a day for the succeeding five days, making altogether 
ten days for salting the piece of brisket — if to be eaten 
hot ; but if intended to be pressed and eaten cold (which 
i.s the usual manner), it should remain in the mixture 
at least five days longer, in order that the flavour of 
the herbs and spices should be sufficiently absorbed. 
This mode of salting is equally applicable to eveiy other 
kind of meat The brisket of beef being thus ready for 
cooking, place it in a pan with plenty of cold water and 
the same quantity of vegetables as in the foregoing instruc- 
tiona Boil, and skim, with the same care, for about four 
or five hours, according to the size of the brisket. When 
cooked, drain, and dress in the same manner as , the 
round of beef, with the vegetables as a garnish, if to be 
eaten hot ; or place in a perforated zinc box, made for 
that purpose, in a cool place. Lay on the meat a piece of 
board made to fit in the box, and put on this all the 
weights and stones you can get, in order to press the 
brisket well ; leave it thus for at least twelve hours, when 
the weights can be removed, the piece of meat trimmed 
and glazed (No. 362) ; then dress it in a cold dish with a 
few sprigs of parsley and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



237 



Note. — All the vegetables should be put in at the same 
time when the brisket is meant for pressing. 

508. BRAIZED BEEF, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Take a piece of top-side of beef, trim it nicely, cut some 
fat bacon into eight shreds of about four inches long by a 
quarter of an inch square, interlard the piece of beef with 
these by inserting each slice into a large larding-needle, 
then fasten the beef round with a piece of string so as 
to secure its shape. Put the pieces of trimmings into a 
binxizing-pan with a few broken bones, if any ; lay the piece 
of beef on these and garnish with two onions each stuck 
with two cloves, two heads of celery, two cairots, a "bouquet 
gaini," and one blade of mace. Moisten with two quarts of 
good stock and one gill of brandy. Set the beef to simmer 
very gently for about four hours, taking care to often baste 
and turn it over in its gravy, in order to glaze it. Mean- 
while glaze separately twenty-four small onions (No. 280) 
and two cabbages (No. 295). When the beef is done, drain 
it, remove the string, dish it up, make a border with the 
glazed onions and cabbages, or any other glazed vegetables 
that may be preferred ; as well as mashed potatoes, cro- 
quettes, or mushrooms stewed in the glaze, and stuffed 
tomatoes, &c. &c. Skim the fat off the glaze, strain it over 
the lot, and serve. 

This way of braizing meat can be applied to any cut or 
part of the animal, viz., ribs, rump, brisket, round or thick 
flank, as well as flUet of beef. The process of larding can 
also be omitted, not only as a matter of economy, but of 
taste as well. 

504. BRAIZED BEEF MILANAISE. 

Procuro about ten pounds of thick flank, or a nice cut of 
round of beef of a similar weight ; trim, interlard, and bind 



238 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

ifc with string, as described in No. 503 ; boil it in the stock- 
pot for a couple of hours ; after which, transfer the beef 
into a braizing-pan on a drainer. Moisten with half a bottle 
of white wine and one quart of good broth ; add the same 
quantity of Tegetables and '' bouquet garni " as in the 
previous number. Set this to simmer very slowly for two 
hours, basting occasionally with its liquor in order to glaze 
the meat. When the beef is cooked take it out of the pan, 
drain it, remove the strmg, and keep it hot; strain the 
gravy through a fine strainer into a stewpan, skim off the 
fat, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce ; set it to the boil, 
skim and reduce it a little. Meanwhile have one pound of 
macaroni cooked in the usual way, and drained, in a stew- 
pan ; season with mignonette pepper and grated nutmeg ; 
put in a gill of the reduced sauce together with two ounces 
of grated parmesan cheese and an ounce of butter; toss 
the macaroni up, so as to mix it well with the sauce and 
cheese ; then dress the meat on a dish, form a border round 
it with the macaroni, pour the remainder of the glaze sauce 
over, and serve. 



505. BRAIZED BEEF NAPOLITAINE. 

Prepai'e a top-side piece of beef weighing about ten 
pounds in the same way as for beef, citizen style. Put it 
in a braizing-pan, with the same kinds and quantity of 
vegetables and "bouquet garni," moisten with a quart of 
good stock and half a bottle of red wine (not port) ; let this 
simmer on a slow fire for three and a half hours, frequently 
basting the meat with its liquor ; then put the meat on a 
dish, strain the liquor through a fine strainer, skim the fat, 
put the gravy back again in the braizing-pan with the meat, 
add half a pound of well washed and picked currants, and 
simmer for another half-hour. See that the meat is nicely 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 239 

glazed ; after which, dress it on a dish, skim the fat fix)m 
the glaze again, before pouring it over the meat, and serve; 



506. BEEF A LA MODE. 

A la mode beef is a popular and favourite dish in 
domestic oookerj. Although it differs but slightly from 
braized beef, its success depends entirely (as the latter) 
on its proper cooking, which must be very slow. If too 
quickly cooked it will produce an insipid and white gravy, 
instead of the proper savoury and nourishing substance. 
In colour it should be of a dark red. Take about eight 
pounds of nicely trimmed thick flank of beef, lard this, in 
the direction of the grain, with half a pound of fat bacon, 
cut into strips half an inch thick, which must have been 
previously sprinkled with pepper; then fasten it round 
with a string, put it in a stewpan with three-quarters 
of a bottle of French white wine, one gill of brandy, two 
quarts of stock, four calf's feet, previously blanched and 
boned, and about two ounces of bacon-rind ; season with 
salt and pepper, boil it, and skim ; then add four large 
carrots, two onions, six doves, a " bouquet garni," and two 
heads of celery ; put it to simmer, very gently, by the side 
of the stove for at least five hours, with the stewpan well 
covered. When the beef is done take it out, as well as 
the calf's feet and carrots. Keep these hot by the side 
of the stove. Meanwhile strain the gravy through a 
pointed strainer into a small saucepan, remove the fat 
carefully, reduce the gravy one-fourth by quick boiling, 
untie the string, dish the beef up with the calf's feet, 
each cut into six pieces, around it, garnish with the carrots, 
shaped into corks, and a dozen glazed onions (No. 280). 
Pour the gravy over the lot; if too much, save it for 
another time. 



240 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Note, — A clove of garlic is very often inserted into tho 
meat and gives it a nice flavour, although this is a matter 
of taste and not essential. Meat can be braized without 
the help of wine, but of course the savoury taste will not 
be the same. 

A la mode betf is also often served as a cold dish for 
luncheons; in that case it would have to be cooked tho 
day befoie it is wanted, and the whole of it turned into 
a basin, which will set to a firm jelly. When ready to 
serve, simply turn it out of the basin on to a dish. 

607. PORTER-HOUSE STEAK. 

Cut two slices, one and a half inches thick, off the 
thickest part of a sirloin of beef, with the fillet or undercut 
attached to the bone in the same manner as loin-mutton- 
chops. Flatten these a little with the cutlet-bat, oil, and 
pepper them slightly ; then grill them on a clear fire for 
about fifteen to eighteen minutes, taking care to turn 
them, often as necessary, to prevent burning. Meai.time 
put two ounces of butter in a sautc-pan, cut crossways six 
nice ripe tomatoes, lay these in the saut^-pan with the skin 
downwards, and fry them thus for five minutes without 
turning. When the steaks are cooked, sprinkle each side 
with salt, dish them up, and gaiTiish with the tomato 
halves in the same way as they were cooked. Sprinkle 
each with a little salt and pepper before serving. Tomatoes 
cut in two are also grilled^ but must always be kept with 
the skin under, otherwise they will lose part of their seed 
and liquor. 

Porter- House steaks are also served with grilled mush- 
rooms; in that case take a dozen large and fresh mush- 
rooms, clean and peel them well, broil them over a not 
too fierce fire for four minutes, sprinkle salt and pepper 
over them, and di*ess with the steaks. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 241 



Remarks on Boast Beef and Boasting in General. 

I have purposely abstained from mentioning the rump, 
sirloin, and ribs of beef in my braizing-recipes, because I 
think the former should only be used as steaks, and the 
two latter for roasting, as ** the roast beef of Old England " 
is not likely to die out for a while, notwithstanding all the 
new recipes that may be introduced* I therefore contend 
that the best cuts of the animal should be reserved for that 
purpose, and not employed in any other way. 

The roasting of meat is done, according to the kitchen 
arrangements, in three difiPerent ways, either by putting 
the meat on a baking-dish in the oven with a little suet 
over it, or by hanging the meat on a hook in a gas roasting- 
closet ; but the best mode is by fixing the joint on a spit, if 
there is an open fire-ranga This, however, requires care 
and attention, as the fire must be constantly replenished 
with fuel (wood being the best for roasting) and never 
allowed to get low ; it is also necessary to avoid draughts 
between the screen and fire, as in that case a joint will 
take much longer to cook. The &ce should also be 
thoroughly bright before putting the meat to roast 

When roasting before a fire, half a pint of broth should 
be put in the dripping-pan for basting the joint with, at 
least five times during the process of cooking. This applies 
also to game as well as poultry. 

The time required for cooking joints will be modified by 
circumstances, as there are different qualities and natures 
of meat which cook more or less rapidly. Always test the 
joint by pressing the thickest parts with the finger before 
removing it from the fire ; if these give way to the pres- 
sure the cooking will be perfect, but if there is a certain 
amount of resistance the meat is not yet cooked. 

9 



242 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

The following is the approximate time required for roast-. 
iDg the difiFerent joints, poultry, and game : — 

For a joint of heef weighing ten pounds, two hours and 

a quarter. 
„ a leg of mutton weighing nine pounds, one hour and 

three-quarters. 
„ a loin or neck of veal weighing five pounds, one 

hour and twenty minutes. 
„ a leg of pork weighing ten pounds, three hours. 
„ a loin of pork weighing six pounds, one hour and 

forty minutes. 
„ a goose weighing seven pounds, one hour and forty 

minutes. 
„ a turkey weighing ten pounds, two hours. 
„ a fowl weighing ahout three pounds, thirty-five 

minutes. 
„ a pigeon, a quarter of an hour. 
„ a duck, twenty minutes. 
„ larks, eight minutea 
„ partridges or woodcocks, twenty minutes. 
„ a pheasant, thirty-five minutea 
„ a wild-duck, a quarter of an hour. 
„ a leveret, half an hour. 
„ a rabhit, twenty minutes. 
„ a hare's back, thirty- five minutes. 
Meat for roasting requires no flavouring — the main point 
is to cook it when neither too fresh nor too high. 

508. FILLET OF BEEF, INDIAN STYLE. 

Get a fillet of beef weighing about eight pounds ; trino 
and cut off the sinewy skin which covers it with a thinly 
bladed knife; lard in the usual way with thin strips of 
fat bacon. Put the trimmings from the fillet in an oblong 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 243 

or braizing-pan on the drainer ; laj the fillet on them ; add 
two onions with two cloves stuck in each, a shred carrot, 
one head of celery, and a " bouquet garni ; " moisten with 
half a bottle of sherry and one pint of good stock ; season 
with a tablespoonful of salt. Cover the pan and set it to 
simmer very slowly for about two hours, basting the meat 
frequently with its liquor while simmering. Meanwhile 
prepare a pint of Indian sauce (No. 185) in a stewpan 
apart; have also ready, and cold, half a pound of risotto 
(No. 108) which place on a slab or board, and make a hole 
in the centre ; fill this hole with about a quarter of a pound 
of Italian salpicon (No. 307), to which a pinch of cayenne 
has been added. Mix these well together with a table- 
spoon, then form the risotto into croquets, or the shape 
of corks ; pass them through the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten, and roll in bread-crumbs ; then fry in the fat in 
the usual way to a nice colour. 

When the fillet is cooked dress it on a hot dish, garnish 
with the croquets, strain and skim off the fat from the 
remainder of the liquor in which the fillet was cooked, pour 
it over the fillet, and serve with the Indian sauce apart. 

609. FILLET OF BEEF A LA JARDINlilRE. 

Prepare and cook a fillet of beef in the same manner 
as the foregoing. Meanwhile prepare and cook in broth, 
with a good pinch of salt and a piece of sugar, all the 
vegetables in season that may be had, such as carrots and 
turnips turned in small fancy shapes, French beans cut 
in diamonds, asparagus-points, buds of caulifiower, small 
Brussels sprouts, and peas. When the fillet is cooked and 
well braized dish it up, garnish with the aforesaid hot 
vegetables all nicely, but separately, intermixed round the 
meat ; strain the liquor in which the beef was cooked, and 



244 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

skim off the fat ; add a gill of brown sauce to the liquor^ 
stir, and warm up ; then pour it over the fillet and serve. 

510. HLLET OF BEEF WITH OLIVES. 

Cook a fillet of beef in the same way as the fillet of beef, 
Indian style. Meanwhile bone with a pointed knife a 
pint of nice French or Italian olives, blanch these for five 
minutes in plaia boiling water, and keep them hot by 
soaking in a gill of brown sauce or good gravy. When the 
fillet is cooked and nicely braized dish it up, strain, and 
skim off the fat from the liquor ; add this to the olives, stir 
and mix well on the fire, and when hot pour it round the 
fillet before serving. 

511. FILLET OF BEEF WITH MASHED POTATOES. 

Procure a nice thick fillet of beef, trim and lard as 
for "Indian style." Put it in a deep earthenware dish, 
pour over it a gill of salad-oil, lay on the beef the shreds 
of an onion, with a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, and 
two good pinches of pepper; let it steep thus for at 
least three hours, turning over occasionally, so that the 
flavour of the different ingredients may be absorbed by the 
fillet. When properly steeped, shake off all the particles 
from the meat, run lengthwise a small iron skewer 
through it, fold the fillet with a well-oiled sheet of paper 
tied with string, and fix it to the roasting-spit with strong 
string. Put this in front of a moderate fire to roast for 
about two hours, taking care to baste it often with the oil 
in which the fillet was steeped. Half an hour before serv- 
ing — that is to say, an hour and a half after the fillet was 
first put before the fire — remove the paper, so that the fillet 
may take a nice brown colour in roasting. Do not forget 
the basting. 

When the fillet is properly cooked and nicely coloured, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 245 

make a good layer of mashed potatoes (No. 231) on a hot 
dish ; place the fillet on it ; pour a little half-glaze or good 
gi-avy over, and serve. 

Note, — In roasting larded meat care should be taken 
that the fire be not too fierce, otherwise the lard will be 
scorched, and spoil the flavour of the joint. Fillet of beef 
roasted as above can also be sei'ved with a purue of celery 
(No. 236), pur($e of green peas (No. 232), pur^e of Jeru- 
salem artichokes (No. 239), or any other purine that may 
be fancied. 

512. FILLET OF STEAK A LA CHATEAUBRIAND. 

Cut two fillets of beef crosswise, at its thickest part, one 
and three-quarter inches thick, remove the sinewy part 
and trim them ; oil them slightly and sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper; put them on the gi-idiron to broil for 
about seven minutes each side. When cooked dish them 
up, garnish with potatoes cut filbert-shape and fried in 
clarified butter. Place on each steak a piece of maitre 
d'hotel butter (No. 226) as big as a walnut, and serve. 

518. FILLETS OF BEEF MIGNONS WITH CHAM- 
PIGNONS. 

Take three pounds from the middle of a whole fillet of 
beef; skin and trim it; cut this in slices three-quarters 
of an inch thick, flatten them slightly with the cutlet- 
bat ; steep for three hours in a marinade composed of half 
a pint of French white wine, a gill of oil, a bay-leaf, a 
sliced onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper. 
Twenty minutes before serving melt two ounces of clarified 
butter in a saut^-pan ; shake off all the particles of marinade 
from the fillets, and put them in the sautc'-pan to cook for 
about ten minutes, taking care to turn them over and 
colour on both sides. Meanwhile prepare a Mushroom 
sauce (No. 197) in a saucepan apart. When the fillets 



246 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

are cooked, drain, and dish them up in a circle, pour the 
Mushroom sauce in the centre, and serve. 

Note, — FiUet of beef cut and cooked in the above style 
can also be served with Truffle sauce (No. 198), Financi^re 
(No. 187), Tomato pur6e (No. 217), or any other Sharp 
sauce. 

514. scollops, fillet of beef with chesnut 

pur£e. 

Cut three pounds of fillet of beef in scollops, three inches 
wide and three-quarters of an inch thick, flatten them as in 
^^ 313) A^d tviia them to a nice shape, either round, 
triangular, or square, but of an equal size; season these 
with salt and pepper, and cook them in a sauto-pan with a 
quarter of a pound of clarified butter, taking care to brown 
them on both sides as in the foregoing. Meanwhile prepare 
a purde of chesnuts (No. 237). When the scollops of beef 
are properly cooked dish them up in a ciicle, after having 
glazed them, fill the centre with the purde, strain some 
good beef gravy over, and serve. 

Note, — Any pur^ of vegetables can be served with 
scollops cooked in the above fashion. 

615. RUMP-STEAK A LA CHASSEUR. 

Procure a slice of rump- steak weighing about three 
pounds, and cut one inch and a quarter thick. Place the 
steak flat on the table, lay your left hand slightly over it, 
whilst with the right you insert a sharp-pointed knife in 
the centre of the outside fat, as if to slice the steak in two ; 
but the insertion must only be made within an inch all 
round fi*om the three outside parts of the steak, so as to 
form it into the shape of a pocket Steep the steak, thus 
trimmed, for two hours in a similar maiinade to the 
foregoing. Meanwhile prepare a salpicon k la chasseur 
(No. 312), to which add about six ounces t)f sausage meat 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 247 

and a couple of truffles cut in small dice, making in all 
about a pound of salpicon ; wipe the steak, put the mixture 
in the pocket with a spoon, sew the open part with a fine 
string; flatten it gently with the hands, and place it on 
the gridiron on a good fire for about eight minutes on each 
side. Wlien cooked remove the string without tearing the 
meat, dish it up and serve, with a little Espagnole or half- 
glaze sauce apart. 

Note, — Steaks cut as above can be filled and cooked 
with other salpicons or oysters, simply blanched in boiling 
water for two minutes, drained, and freed from any particle 
of shell. 

This mode of cooking steaks has been appropriated lately 
by several cooks and amateurs, as of their own invention. 
I may, however, say that it was introduced by me at the 
St. James's Hall Restaurant either in 1875 or 1876. 

516. RUMP-STEAK. OYSTER SAUCE. 

Take a rump-steak weighing about two pounds and cut 
one inch thick ; pour a tablespoonful of oil on a plate ; 
pass both sides of the steak over the oil, and broil it over 
a moderate fire for about seven minutes each side. When 
cooked sprinkle both sides with salt, dress it on a dish, 
and serve with some Oyster sauce (No. 186) in a sauce- 
boat apart. 

Note. — Rump-steak broiled as above can also be served 
plain, or with Sharp, Italian, or Tomato sauce, as well as 
with grilled or stewed mushrooms. 

517. RUMP-STEAK. ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Prepare and cook a rump- steak as in the foregoing. 
Meanwhile make some anchovy butter (No. 161), lay it 
on a hot dish ; put the steak on the butter, and serve with 
cither chipped or fried potatoes. 



CHAPTER X. 

REMARKS ON VEAL. 

Veal is one of the most nutritious, palatable, and whole- 
some meats that can be cooked, besides pla}dng a gi*eat 
part in the dififerent culinary preparations of soups, sauces, 
and jellies ; but veal, like lamb, should never be eaten when 
over two months old, for the flesh gets coarse and loses 
flavour and delicacy, as well as whiteness. The veal from 
Pontoise (France) possesses a w^orld-wide repute for its 
quality, savour, and whiteness of flesh ; but calves are never 
killed over eight weeks old in that country. 

518. VEAL, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Procure a loin. Bone it ; cut cut the kidney ; trim off 
some of the encircling fat and put the kidney back in its 
place ; flatten the flap and fold it under so as to cover the 
kidney, and fillet and tie the piece of meat with string 
in order to keep it in shape. Or take a round cut from 
ofif a leg of veal, weighing five or six pounds ; bone it, and 
fasten it round with string. Put either in a well-buttei*ed 
braizing-pan over the fire to bix>wn ; when of a nice golden 
colour all round moisten wich a quart of broth, add thi*ee 
whole carrots, two onionb with two cloves stuck in each, 
a "bouquet garni," salt and pepper to taste, and set to 
simmer very gently for about two hours and a half, with 
the pan j)artly covered, not forgetting to baste often and 

turn the meat daring that time. Then cover the pan ; pit 

348 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 249 

a good shovel of live-coal and embers on the lid, and let 
it simmer for half an hour, taking care meanwhile to baste 
the meat at least &ve times with its own gravy. When 
the meat is cooked, which can be ascert-ained by pricking 
it with a trussing-needle, drain it, and keep hot on a 
dish ; remove the carrots carefully by themselves — and keep 
them hot too — strain the gravy through a pointed strainer, 
skim off the fat, and reduce the gravy by quick boiling to 
a half-glaze ; add a little caramel if not sufficiently coloured. 
In the meantime cut the braized cari-ots into shape, dish 
them up with the beef together with a dozen small onions, 
pi-eviously glazed for that purpose; sprinkle over the re- 
duced gravy, and serve. 

Note, — This mode of preparing veal is also served cold. 
In that case cook it the day before, and put in a basin 
with the strained gravy, which will set to a firm jelly ; and 
it will only have to be turned out of the basin on to a dish 
to serve. 

519. BRAIZED VEAL, ITALIAN STYLE. 

Take a round cut of the leg or a shoulder of veal, weigh- 
ing about six pounds, bone it with a sharp-pointed knife, 
and lard it in the usual way with well-seasoned strips of 
bacon, and fasten it i*ound with string. Lay flat in a well- 
buttered stewpan half a dozen thin slices of fat bacon with 
an ounce of butter. Cut in quarters an onion, a carrot, 
and one head of celery ; spread these on the slices of bacon ; 
add a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of thyme, place on these 
the piece of larded veal seasoned with salt and pepper, 
and set it on the fire to brown all round. After having 
pi'operly turned the meat and secured a nice even colour- 
ing, add a pint and a half of stock with half a pint of 
French white wine, then simmer it very gently, with the 
lid pai-tly on, for about three hours, taking care, as is usual 



250 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

in all braizing, to carefully basto the meat, so as to glaze 
it welh When the meat is properly cooked, drain and 
put it on a dish to keep hot, strain the gravy in the usual 
way, and put it in a small saucepan to be reduced to a half- 
glaze, after having skimmed off the fat. Meanwhile pre- 
pare a dish either of macaroni, spaghetti, or ravioli, Italian 
style, garnish the veal with it, pour tlie reduced gravy over, 
and serva 

520. STEWED VEAL, COUNTRY STYLE, 

In order to study economy, this stew should be made 
with the neck, breast, and trimmings of veal cutlets, the 
two former cut two inches wide by three long. 

Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan over the fira; 
put the pieces of veal in with two bay-leaves and a few 
sprigs of thyme ; brown the veal nicely by stirring almost 
constantly ; then sprinkle two or three tablespoonfuls of 
flour over the meat; continue stirring for three or four 
minutes longer, or till the flour is well browned ; moisten 
with half a pint of stock and a gill of white wine ; season 
with salt and pepper; simmer by the side of the Are for 
about an hour with the lid on, stirring the meat five or six 
times ; after which, odd one pint of stock with three fresh 
tomatoes, skinned and cut in four. Boil fast on a brisk 
Are for fifteen minutes ; take the bay-leaves and thyme out ; 
add some potatoes and peas, cooked separately in broth, as 
well as a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms, properly 
trimmed, cleaned, and blanched, also in bix)th. Mix these 
well together on the stove till it boils, then dress it up in a 
large dish, and serve. 

52L STEWED VEAL, COUNTRY STYLE (ANOTHER). 

Prepare and stew the veal trimmings as indicated in the 
foregoing, but half an hour before the completion of stew- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 251 

ing add to it two shred onions, half a pound of fresh 
mushrooms, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the 
juice of a lemon. Stir well, simmer for half an hour ; add 
the quantity of broth required ; boU sharp for fifteen 
minutes ; remove the aromatic herbs, and serve separately 
with a pur^e of potatoes. 

522. STEWED VEAL WITH RICE. 

Proceed for this stew as in the former, and when the 
meat is well glazed and cooked, add a quarter of a pound 
of fresh mushrooms and simmer for five or six minutes 
longer. Have a risotto (No. 109) ready; dish it up; 
dress also the stewed veal in another dish, and serve. 

628. SCOLLOPS OF VEAL FRIED. 

Cut about two pounds of cushion * of veal into scollops 
or slices two inches wide by three long and half an inch 
thick, flatten these slightly with the cutlet-bat dipped in 
water, and roll each separately in flour. Melt four ounces 
of butter in a saute-pan, fry the scollops in it over a brisk 
file, taking care to give them, a nice golden colour on both 
sides. When this has been obtained, sprinkle a little flour 
on each slice. Moisten with half a pint of good broth, let 
it boil for ten minutes, then add a gill of half-glaze or 
good gravy, one teaspoonful of fine herbs (No. 195), a 
quarter of a pound of cooked fresh mushrooms, and salt 
to taste. Toss the saute-pan over the fire in order to 
warm up the contents and mix them well; dress the 
scollops in the form of a circle; add about an ounce of 
butter to the sauce ; squeeze the juice of a lemon, and stir 
by the side of the fire. Meanwhile garnish the centre of 

* Cusbion of veul U a cut from the most fleshy part of the leg of veal, 
aud very often called **lillet." 



252 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the dish with any puree or garnish of vegetables that may 
be preferred, or any paste, or rice. Four the sauce over 
the scollops, and serve. 

524. BLANQUETTE OP VEAL. 

The bi^east is generally the part of veal used for blan- 
quette. Cut three pounds of breast of veal into pieces 
between two and three inches square ; put these in a stew- 
pan with enough water to cover the meat well; add two- 
thirds of a tablespoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Boil and skim in the usual way ; after which, add 
two onions with two cloves stuck in each, and a double 
" bouquet garni ; " simmer gently for an hour, then drain 
in a colander, but save the broth; return the pieces of 
veal in the stewpan and keep hot by the side of the five. 
In the meantime mix in another stewpan one ounce of 
butter, with the same quantity of flour, by stining over the 
fire for four or five minutes, then draw it by the side of 
the stove. Moisten with all the liquor drained from the 
veal, reduce this for twenty minutes, stirring all the time 
to prevent burning ; after which, thicken with the yolks of 
three eggs, strain the sauce through a pointed strainer 
into the stewpan containing the veal, to which half a pint 
of tinned, blanched, and sliced button champignons have 
already been added. Boil it for one minute, sprinkle in 
half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; mix well; dish 
the blanquette, and serve. 

525. CUSHION OF VEAL WITH SPINACH (FRENCH 

FRICANDEAU). 

Trim a cushion of veal weighing about three pounds to 
a nice oval form and smooth surface ; lard this side rather 
closely with thin strips of fat bacon. Sti*ew the bottom 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 253 

of a braizingrpaji with the trimmings of the veal, a small 
sliced carrot and onion, a small ^'bouquet garni," salt and 
pepper to taste, and then place the cushion on the top. 
Moisten with about a pint of broth ; place a buttered sheet 
of paper over the larded part of the meat ; then set it to 
simmer very slowly for one or two hours, with the lid on, 
and frequently baste it with its own liquor. When nearly 
done the lid and paper must be removed, so as to enable 
the larding to dry, although it should still be frequently 
basted with its own glaze, in order to give it a shiny 
appearance ; care, however, must be taken to prevent the 
meat from acquiring too much colour during the process. 
Meanwhile dress a pur^e of spinach (No. 236) in the centre 
of a hot dish, and with a flat strainer take the piece of veal 
out of the pan and lay it carefully on the spinach ; strain 
the half-glaze through a pointed strainer ; skim off the fat, 
pour it over the meat, and serve. 

Note. — Cushion of veal braized thus can be served with 
either jardiniere, mac^doine, stewed peas, a la Toulouse, 
stuffed tomatoes, white haricot beans, glazed onions, new 
carrots, or any pur^e of vegetables, and also with stewed 
mushrooms. 

626. SCOLLOPS OF VEAL WITH STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Cut a cushion of veal into scollops as for scollops fried ; 
put them in a saut^-pan with sufficient broth to cover them 
entirely; season with salt and pepper, and simmer them 
gently till the scollops are done, which will be in about an 
hour. Meanwhile brown in a stewpan three spoonfuls of 
flour with an ounce of butter, by stirring for four or five 
minutes ; then moisten with half a pint of broth and a gill 
of sherry; stir and dilute this well; season with a little 
salt and pepper ; then add to the sauce one pound of well- 
cleaned fresh mushrooms ; simmer for six or eight minutes. 



2 54 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

and then draw by the side of the fira When the scollops 
are cooked dish them up in the form of a circle and keep 
hot ; skim ofiP the fat from the liqaor in which the scollops 
were cooked ; reduce it a little over a brisk fire, then add 
the mushrooms, with a teaspoonf ul of finely chopped parsley 
and the juice of half a lemon ; stir on the fire till it boils ; 
pour it in the centre of the dish with the scollops, and 
serve. 

Note. — Scollops cooked as above may be dressed with any 
pur6e or garnish of vegetables, as well as with macaroni, 
tagliatelli, spaghetti, or ravioli. 

527. VEAL CUTLETS WITH SORREL PUR£E. 

Saw off the chine-bone and upper end ribs of the half of 
the best- end neck of veal, leaving the cutlet bones about 
four inches long ; divide these into cutlets of an even thick- 
ness; trim them nicely without showing the bone; lard 
the fillet of each cutlet with thin strips of fat bacon, put 
them in a saut^-pan with three ounces of clarified butter 
and fry them for four minutes only; then add a pint of 
veal broth, half a pint of French white wine, a small shred 
carrot and onion, and salt and pepper to taste; simmer 
very gently till the cutlets are well glazed, and meanwhile 
prepare a pur^ of sorrel (No. 238). When the cutlets are 
done dress them up on a dish in the form of a circle, fill 
the centre with the sorrel, skim off the fat, strain the gravy 
over the cutlets, and serve. 

628. VEAL CUTLETS WITH HAH. 

Cut and trim six veal cutlets ns described in the previous 
number ; put them in a saut(!'-pan wiMi two or three ounces 
of clariBed butter to colour Ihem ; after which, pour off the 
butter, and add one pint of veal stock with half a pint of 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 255 

Espagnole sauce, and simmer till the cutlets are done. 
Meanwhile cut six lean slices of ham, a quarter of an inch 
thick and trim them to the shape of the cutlets; fry 
for five minutes in the clarified butter which was saved 
from the cutlet-pan. When the cutlets are done drain 
and dish up in a circle with a slice of ham between each. 
Skim the fat o£F the gravy, strain it through a small tammy 
over the cutlets, and serve. 

629. VEAL CUTLETS MILANAISE. 

Cut and pare away six veal cutlets as in No. 528, flatten 
slightly with the cutlet-bat dipped in water, and pass 
them through the yolks of three eggs well beaten and 
seasoned with salt ; then put them into bread-crumbs and 
fry in a saut^-pan with four ounces of clarified butter to 
a nice golden colour on both sides. Meanwhile prepare 
some macaroni Milanaise (No. 94). When the cutlets are 
ready lay the half of the macaroni over the dish, dress the 
cutlets on it in the usual form, pour the remainder of the 
macaroni in the centre, sprinkle over the cutlets the butter 
left in the pan, and serve. 

630. VEAL CUTLETS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare half a dozen veal cutlets as in the previous 
number, flatten gently with the cutlet-bat dipped in 
water, and with a sharp knife slice the fillets in two, 
without separating them at the bone. Spread on each 
a tablespoonful of salpicon k la financi^re (No. 310), to 
which two tablespoonfuls of D*Uxelles has previously 
been added, and well mixed with the salpicon; turn the 
slices down and flatten gently with the hands, so as to 
give the cutlets their natural shape; after which, rub 
them through breadings and raspings, and fry to a nice 



256 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

golden colour with four ounces of clarified butter, ^yhen 
cooked dress them carefully over a hot dish, and serve with 
a sauce-boat of Italian sauce (No. 204) or any other snuoe 
that may be preferred. 

581. VEAL CUTLETS EN PAPILLOTES. 

Cut, trim, and flatten the veal cutlets as in cutlets 
Milanaise, put these in a saut<^-pan with two ounces of 
butter, and fry to a nice even colour for about six minutes 
on each side; when done, drain, and put by on a plate. 
Sprinkle an ounce of flour in the sauto-pan ; stir it over 
the fire for three minutes; add one pint of broth, stir 
and boil for ^ve minutes, and strain through a pointed 
gravy-strainer. Clean the saute-pan, put the sauce back 
and boil to reduce it to half the quantity, add three 
tablespoonfuls of D'Uxelles (No. 195), and reduce five 
minutes longer; then cut for each cutlet a sheet of stiff 
white paper in the shape of a heart and large enough to 
leave a good margin round the cutlet, oil the sheets of 
paper, and lay on each side a slice of fab bacon, cut in the 
shape of the lean part of the cutlet ; spread on the bacon 
a tablespoonful of the sauce, then the cutlet, then another 
spoonful of the sauce, and lastly a slice of bacon similar 
to the first ; fold the paper over and twist the edges tightly 
under into very close folds. About fifteen minutes befoi'e 
serving, put the folded cutlets on a girdiron to broil on a 
moderate Are for six or seven minutes on each side. 

632. VEAL CUTLETS BROILED PLAIN. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as in the foregoing ; spiinkle 
some pepper on both sides, pour one tablespoonful of oil 
on a plate, pass the cutlets lightly over it, and broil them 
for ten minutes on a moderate fire. When done sprinkle 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 257 

a pinch of salt on each side, dish up the cutlets, and serve 
with any vegetables that may be preferred. 



538. VEAL CUTLETS. TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cut and pare the cutlets; dip in melted butter; pass 
them through bread-crumbs; broil on a moderate fire for 
about twelve minutes, and serve with some Tomato sauce 
(No. 217) apart. 

Note, — Veal cutlets, plain or bread-crumbed, and broiled 
as above, can be served with any Sharp sauce or maitre 
d'h6tel butter, allowing generally three-parts of a gill of 
sauce and an ounce of maitre d'h6tel butter to each person. 

584. ROAST VEAL 

The chump-end of the loin, the neck, and the loin of veal 
are generally the pieces used for roasting. Take about 
four pounds of the neck, saw off the chine-bone, chop 
between each bone, and shorten the rib- bones, roll the flap 
underneath and tie round with string; roast this before 
the fire, which must be moderate, for about an hour and 
three-quarters, basting the meat with its own gravy in the 
usual way, and five minutes before removing the joint from 
the fire sprinkle it well with salt. Strain, and skim the 
fat off the gravy, pour it over the meat and serve. 

For roast loin of veal, take about five pounds of the part 

including the kidney, saw off the chine-bone,, roll the flap 

underneath so as to enclose the kidney, and fasten it with 

string. Put it on a spit to roast for at least two hours 

before a moderate fire, basting about every fifteen minutes ; 

sprinkle some salt five minutes before taking the joint 

away from the fire ; strain, and skim off the fat from the 

gravy ; dish up the meat, pour the gravy over it, and serve 

with water-cress sprinkled with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 

R 



258 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

For roast chump of loin, bone entirely, tie with string 
to keep it in shape, and proceed in the same manner as 
previous number. 

535. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL WITH STUPHNG. 

Bone completely the breast of veal ; mix one pound of 
well-seasoned veal stuffing (Nos. 270 or 270a) and a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped sage; place this along in the 
centre of the meat, roll up tightly, fasten round with 
string, tie a well-buttered sheet of paper round, and roast 
before a moderate fire for about an hour and three-quarters, 
taking care to baste as often as possible. Twenty minutes 
before taking away from the fire remove the paper, and 
when done untie the string. Dish it up and serve with 
some good gravy, properly strained and skimmed. 

536. ROAST OR BAKED BREAST OF VEAL, CITIZEN 

STYLE. 

Bone, trim, and roll a breast of veal (without stuffing) 
ns in No. 535, tie round, and put in a stewpan with 
three ounces of butter, to fry till it is well coloured all 
over ; then add a " bouquet garni " and a quart of stock ; 
put in the oven to bake gently. Half an hour after- 
wards add two dozen new carrots nicely turned, and in 
another half hour the same number of button onions, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and the same quantity of salt. 
Baste the meat frequently. When done take it up, un- 
fold the string, and put the veal on a baking-sheet in 
the oven again for a few minutes to glaze. Meanwhile 
continue the glazing of the carrots and onions on the fire. 
Dish up the meat, garnish round with the glazed vegetables, 
remove the "bouquet garni," skim off the fat from the 
surface of the liquor, reduce to the consistency of a half- 
glaze, pour it over the veal and vegetables, and serve, 



CHAPTER XL 

REMARKS ON MUTTON, LAMB, AND GOAT. 

The flesh of mutton and lamb is of great benefit as a 
supply of food to mankind, in every part of the world 
the meat of the former being used on a larger scale than 
any other kind by all classes. It can be served to great 
advantage roasted, boiled, or made into numerous dishes 
very similar to those made of veal. 

The flesh of lamb, when not too old and of good quality, 
is perfectly white. For taste, delicacy, and tenderness it 
is superior to all other butcher's meat ; but it should not 
be more than two months old, as its flesh then begins 
to get coarse and loses much of its delicate flavour and 
whiteness. 

The meat of the goat is coarse and tough, and possesses 
rather a strong flavour; while that of the kid five or six 
weeks old is delicious when properly cooked. 

587. MUTTON CUTLETS A LITALIENNE, 

Select a neck of mutton that has been killed at least 
four days, and cut off the neck or scrag-end with the 
chopper; or simply procure the best-end of a neck of 
mutton from the butcher, saw off the breast-part so as 
to leave the cutlet-bones between three and a half and 
four inches long; saw off also the chine or spine bone, 
and then with a sharp knife cut in as many cutlets as 
there are bones from the neck of mutton thus prepared. 



26o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Trim the cutlets by removing all the sinewy part and 
superfluous fat without damaging the flllet, and detach 
the meat about an inch from the end of each bone. 
Marinade the cutlets for a couple of hours, wipe and 
pass them over the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and 
bread them. Ten minutes before serving, fry them in a 
saut^pan with claiified butter, taking care to give them 
a nice golden colour on both sides ; after which, dish them 
up in a circle and serve with Sharp sauce (No. 205) 
apart. 

Note, — Cutlets cooked in the above style are also served 
with a garnish in the centre, composed either of French 
beans (No. 290), asparagus-points (No. 287), stewed peas 
(No. 286), cucumber (No. 285), mac^doine (No. 281), 
pur6e of chesnuts (No. 237), or any vegetable purde that 
may be fancied, as well as mushrooms or truffles. 

Lamb cutlets are also cooked and served in the same 
manner. 

588. MUTTON CUTLETS MILANAISE. 

Prepare the cutlets and trim, bread-crumb, and cook 
in the same style as the foregoing. "When cooked dish up 
in a circle, fill the centre with macaroni cheese (No. 88), 
to which two tablespoon fuls of Bechamel sauce should 
have been added and well mixed before serving. 

589. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA SOUBISE. 

Mutton cutlets for this style should be cut thick; and 
the proper way is to cut two bones for each cutlet and 
remove one rib-bone from it; after which, trim and pare 
carefully; then lard through the lean part of each cutlet 
with eight narrow strips one inch and a quarter long of 
bacon and tongue, well seasoned. Put the cutlets in a 
large stewpan with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 261 

two cloves, a " bouquet garni," a bay-leaf, six pepper-coms, 
and a blade of mace ; moisten with sufficient good broth 
to cover it ; put the lid on the pan, and set the cutlets to 
braize on a slow fire for about an hour and a quarter. 
When the cutlets are done, drain, and place them on a 
large dish to get coldj lay another dish over the cutlets 
to slightly press and give them an even surface. Mean- 
while skim the fat off the gravy in which the cutlets were 
cooked, pass it through a tammy, and reduce it to a half- 
glaze by boiling. Twenty minutes before serving return 
the cutlets into the reduced liquor, warm them up very 
gently so as to give them time to glaze nicely by rolling 
the pan carefully. When the cutlets are properly warmed 
and glazed, dish them up in the usual way, fill in the 
centre with a purdie h, la Soubise (No. 229), pour the re- 
mainder of the liquor over the cutlets, and serve. 

Note. — Braized cutlets as above can be served with any 
garnish or purde of vegetables, for making which see those 
articles. 

540. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA POMPADOUR. 

Prepare, lard, and cook the number of cutlets required 
as in the foregoing, and let them get cold in their liquor. 
Make a purde of fresh mushrooms (No. 301), to which add 
two or three tablespoonfuls of the liquor in which the 
cutlets were braized, and dilute the pur^ with it. When 
the cutlets are quite cold, take them out and place on a 
diiih, after being drained; lay flat on each a teaspoonful 
of the purde (keeping the remainder hot in a bain-marie). 
Let this set firm on the cutlets, and about twenty minutes 
before serving pass them twice through the yolks of eggs, 
properly beaten for that purpose, and fine bread-crumbs; 
that is to say, to rub lightly the eggs and bread-crumbs 
over the cutlets first, and to repeat the same thing over 



262 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

again ; after which, put them in a sauto-pan with enough 
melted clarified hutter to fry over a good brisk fire, 
taking care to give each a nice colour. When cooked 
dress them in the usual form ; place the remainder of the 
mushroom puree in the centre; sprinkle the cutlets with 
a little of their liquor, skimmed and reduced for the 
purpose, as in No. 539, and serve with Tomato sauce 
apart. 

541. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA JARDINIERE. 

Cut, trim, and braize the cutlets as in the foregoing, 
but without larding them. Meanwhile prepare a jardiniere 
of vegetables as for fillet of beef jardiniere (No. 509). Mix 
all the vegetables together in a stewpan with a few table- 
spoonfuls of Bechamel sauce. When the cutlets are cooked 
dish them in a circle, pour the hot jardiniere in it, sprinkle 
a little half -glaze over the cutlets, and serve. 

542. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MAINTENON. 

Cut and trim the mutton cutlets as for jardiniere; 
slightly flatten them with the bat, and. with a sharp 
knife slice the fillets in two without separating them at 
the bone; spread inside a teaspoonful of D'Uxelles (No. 
195), refold the cutlets in their natural form, broil them 
thus four or five minutes on each side; put a thin layer 
of D'Uxelles on a dish ; lay the cutlets on it when cooked. 
Pour over some D'Uxelles sauce (No. 195), place the dish in 
a hot oven for five minutes, and serve. 

543. MUTTON CUTLETS, MAItRE D'HdTEL. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as for cutlets k I'ltalienne; 
flatten them gently with the bat, oil and sprinkle with 
a little pepper, and broil over a brisk fire about four 
minutes on each side. When done to a nicety dish up, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 263 

and put some maitre d'h6tel butter between and on each 
cutlet, serve with either fried or chipped potatoes. 

544. MUTTON CUTLETS BREAD-CRUMBED. 

Prepare the cutlets as for maitre d'h6teL Melt about 
one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, dip each cutlet in it, 
and pass them through the bread-crumbs. After which, 
broil on a grill, in the same way as before ; dish up, find 
serve with Tomato sauce apart. 

Note, — Cutlets either of mutton or lamb, grilled as above, 
can be served with any garnish or pur^e of vegetables, as 
well as with stewed or grilled mushroom& 

646. LAMB-CHOPS. 

Lamb as well as mutton chops are plainly grilled, and 
served with grilled tomatoes or mushrooms. 

646. BREAST OF MUTTON BROILED. 

The breast or upper ribs sawn off the neck of mutton 
when cut in cutlets can either be boiled, broiled, or used 
in stews. 

Put the mutton in a saucepan with enough water to cover 
it; add any trimmings and bones that may be handy, 
together with a small carrot cut lengthwise in four, an 
onion with two cloves stuck in it, a '^ bouquet garni,'' and 
season with salt and pepper. Boil and skim in the usual 
way, and simmer till the bones can easily be taken out; 
drain the meat on a dish ; pull out all the bones ; sprinkle 
the meat with salt; press it under another dish with a 
weight at the top, and let it get cold. The broth in which 
the mutton was boiled must be strained and the fat skimmed 
ofiF, when it can be used as a soup, by adding to it either 
boiled pearl barley or rice and a little chopped parsley. 



264 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

When the meat is cold cut it in six equal parts. Melt 
an ounce of butter in a saut<^-pan ; dip the pieces of mutton 
in it ; strew them with bread-crumbs and broil on a gridiron 
to a nice brown colour on both sides, and serve with either 
Tomato or Sharp sauce apart, and garnish with any purde 
of vegetables. 

Note. — Lamb is also cooked and seiTcd in this way. 



547. BREAST OF MUTTON, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Cut into as many pieces as there are bones the breast 
of mutton, cut off from the neck ; put these in a saut^ 
pan and fry to a nice brown ; then drain off the fat, and 
sprinkle over them three tablespoonfuls of flour. Moisten 
with half a pint of broth, add a ^^ bouquet garni," a bay- 
leaf, and two small onions stuck with two cloves ; season 
with salt and pepper, and let simmer gently for three- 
quarters of an hour, taking care to often stir the contents 
with a wooden spoon. Meanwhile cut in small quarters 
four turnips ; blanch in the usual way and brown in butter 
till cooked ; skim off the fat from the mutton, remove the 
'^ bouquet-gami," bay-leaf, and onions, add the turnips, con- 
tinue simmering for a few minutes longer, and serva 

Note. — ^The neck-end and breast of lamb is also prepared 
and served in the same style. 



648. MINCED MUTTON. 

This mince is generally made with the remnants of cold 
mutton. Cut off all fat, skin, and gristle from the meat ; 
mince it fine, and warm it well together with some 
Italian sauce, without, however, letting it boil ; after 
which, dress it on a dish with poached eggs and large 
crodtons as a garnish. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 265 

549. HARICOT MUTTON. 

Cut the end part of the neck as well as the breast of 
mutton between each bone ; pare away all superfluous fat, 
put the pieces of . mutton into a stewpan ; fry them over 
a brisk Are to a nice brown ; then pour off the grease, 
sprinkle three spoonfuls of flour over the mutton, and stir 
the contents for about five minutes over the fire ; then 
moisten it with one quart of broth, and continue stirring 
almost constantly till it boils. Prepare about half a pound 
each of carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes, such as 
half-moons, small pears, and big olives; add them to the 
mutton, as well as a dozen small onions, a " bouquet garni," 
two bay -leaves, and two pinches of mignonette pepper. 
Let the haricot mutton simmer gently by the side of the 
fire, with the lid on the pan, for about an hour and a half, 
taking care to frequently stir it ; then carefully skim off 
the fat and grease ; remove the '^ bouquet garni " and 
leaves ; dish it up with the vegetables ; reduce the sauce 
(if necessary) by sharp boiling, pour it over the mutton, 
and serve. 

Note. — ^The above may be varied by substituting new 
potatoes, young carrots, turnips, and green peas for the 
aforesaid vegetables. 

550. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON A LA BRETONNE. 

Take a nice fat leg of mutton weighing about eight 
pounds, saw off the shank-bone, and lard it with a dozen strips 
of fat bacon, cut a quarter of an inch square by six inches 
long. Place the leg in a braizing-pan with two onions 
each stuck with two cloves, a head of celery split in half, 
two shred carrots, a spoonful of chopped parsley, a bay- 
leaf, and season with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and 
two blades of mace. Moisten with a quart of good stocky 



266 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cover the meat with a buttered paper, and put the lid on 
the pan ; lay on it some embers ; set the pan on the fire to 
simmer very gently for about four hours, taking care to 
frequently baste the mutton with its liquor and feed the 
lid with live embers. Meanwhile cook a pint of white 
haricot beans (No. 294), strain, and put in a stewpan 
in which the following sauce has already been prepared: 
— Shred fine two onions ; fry them of a light colour 
in a saut^-pan with a little butter ; add a pint of brown 
sauce ; season with salt and pepper ; let it boil gently for 
fifteen minutes, then rub it through a sieve, as a purde. 
Having thus put the beans with the sauce, let the whole 
simmer about five minutes. When the mutton is properly 
braized take it from the braizing-pan and keep it hot; 
straiu the liquor into a small saucepan ; skim off all the fat 
and reduce it to a half-glaze ; lay the haricot beans on a 
hot dish ; dress the leg of mutton on it ; pour over the 
meat the half-glaze, and serve. 

Note, — To simplify the cooking, legs of mutton may be 
braized without larding, and garnished with plain boiled 
haricot beans, moistened with gravy instead of sauce. 

Braized legs of mutton as above can be served k la 
Jardiniere, k la Soubise, and k la Mac^doine ; for which see 
the respective garnishes. 

Loins and saddles of mutton may also be braized and 
served in the same style as legs of mutton. 



551. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Choose a nice leg of mutton ; put it in a stock-pot with 
a spoonful of salt and plenty of cold water ; boil it ; remove 
the scum by skimming in the same way as broth ; then add 
a couple of carrots sliced in four, and six or eight turnips ; 
let it simmer gently by the side of the stove for not less 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 267 

than two hours, and if the leg is a big one, three hours. 
Wlien the mutton is done take it out of the broth and 
keep it hot ; strain the broth into an earthenware pan, that 
it may be used again for boiling mutton and served as a 
mutton broth. Keep the carrots hot; mash the turnips 
with an ounce of butter, and season with salt and pepper ; 
dish up the leg of mutton, garnish it with tablespoon fuls 
of pur^o laid egg-shape round it, intermixed with carrots 
nicely shaped; pour a little gravy over the mutton, and 
serve with Caper sauce (No. 193) in a sauce-boat apait. 

562. ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Legs and saddles of mutton, to eat tender, should be hung 
in cool and draughty places at least four or five days in 
summer, and ten or twelve days in winter, before being 
cooked. Saw off the shank-bone a little below the knuckle, 
fix the meat on the spit to roast before a good fire for an 
liour and three-quarters ; pour half a pint of broth in the 
dripping-pan, and baste in the same way as for roast beef. 
Five minutes before taking the meat off the spit sprinkle 
it with salt and pepper. When done dish it up ; skim the 
fat from the gravy in the dripping-pan, and strain it through 
a pointed strainer over the meat, and serve. 

Note, — ^Two or three cloves of garlic stuck in the leg of 
mutton a day or two pi*evi6us to cooking it, is according to 
taste, a great improvement. 

Shoulders, saddles, and loins of mutton, when not cut in 
chops and grilled, should also be roasted as above. 

563. EPIGRAMMES OF LAMB WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Saw off the breast of a neck of lamb in the same manner 
as for mutton cutlets; remove the tendon of the breast 
and boil in some stock with an onion and a small 



268 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

"bouquet garni." When the lamb is done drain it, and 
take out all the bones ; keep these, as they will be required 
later on. Sprinkle some salt and a little pepper over the 
meat ; lay it flat on a dish ; press, with another dish and a 
weight at the top of it, till cold. Then cut the breast of 
lamb in pieces the size and shape of cutlets, pass these 
through some melted butter and bread-crumbs, and through 
two or three beaten eggs and bread-crumbs again. Cut the 
bones kept for that purpose with a large knife or chopper 
to a point at one end, stick one in each cutlet, and fry them 
in hot fat to a nice golden colour. Meanwhile have ready 
a pint of green peas, plainly boiled in salt water, drained, 
and mixed with a gill of Bechamel sauce in a stewpan, and 
as soon as the epigrammes are properly fried, dish them up 
in a circle, pour the peas in the centre, and serve. 

Note. — Epigrammes of lamb prepared and cooked as 
above can be served with asparagus-points, macddoine, 
cucumbers, French beans, or any purde of vegetables. 

654. EPIGRAMMES OF LAMB, ITALIAN STYLE. 

Prepare and cook the epigrammes as in the foregoing. 
Meanwhile cook a pound of macaroni (No. 89), Italian 
style ] lay the half of it on a dish ; dress the epigrammes 
on it in the form of a circle ; £11 up the centre with the 
remainder of the macaroni, and serve with some Tomato 
sauce apart. 

565. EPIGRAMMES OF LAMB A LA PROVEN^ALE. 

Cut, trim, and boil the epigrammes as in the foregoing, 
then pass them lightly through some oil, instead of melted 
butter, before breading them; and fry them in two gills 
of oil, instead of fat. Meanwhile trim, clean, and fry, 
also one pound of fresh mushrooms in two gills of oil. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 269 

to which add a clove of garlic chopped to a paste and 
a tablespoonf ul of blanched and chopped parsley. AVhen 
the epigram mes are of a nice colour and well drained, dish 
them up in the usual way, put the mushrooms in the 
centre, and serve. 



REMARKS ON ROAST LAHB. 

Lamb is generally cut in half lengthwise, through the 
spine, and divided afterwards in quarters, viz., two hind- 
quarters, each comprising a leg and loin attached to it, 
and two fore-quarters, which include the cutlets, breast, 
shoulder, and scrag, or neck-end of the carcass. 

Each quarter may be roasted with as much advantage. 
Many even prefer the fore- quarter, or target, as it is called 
in Hampshire, to the hind -quarter; but should either of 
these joints be too large for a small family, each can be cut 
off and cooked separately, and differently, as shown in the 
foregoing. The shoulder can be roasted by itself, as well 
as the leg, and the loin likewise will make a small joint 
when roasted, as will also the best-end of the neck, or the 
whole neck and breast. It is however essential, before 
roasting either loin or neck and breast, to cut with a 
chopper between each chine-bone, as well as across the rib- 
bones, between the cutlet and breast part, so as to facilitate 
the carving of those joints when cooked. This is very 
often neglected, and gives no end of trouble to the carver 
when the joint is on the table, causing, at the same time, 
the splashing of gravy over the cloth. 

556. ROAST LAMB. 

Whatever joint may be roasted, the process is the same. 
Fold it with some of the lamb's caul which the butcher 



270 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

generally rolls with it; put the joint to roast before an 
even fire, and baste it two or three times with some of 
its gravy. When cooked dish it up, and serve with the 
gravy free from fat, properly strained, and poured over, 
together with some Mint sauce (No. 225) in a sauce- 
boat apart 

557. BRAIZED KID. 

Take a whole kid about five weeks old, which when 
skinned and cleansed looks very much like a skinned rabbit. 
Cut it across the spine-bone just over the kidneys, so as 
to leave these attached to the hind-part of the kid; put 
both halves in a well-buttered braizing-pan ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a piece of cinnamon about three inches 
long ; add a few slices of gammon, a " bouquet garni,** and 
two bay-leaves; moisten with a pint of broth, and let it 
simmer very gently about two hours and a half, with 
plenty of live embers on the lid, taking care, meanwhile, to 
turn over the pieces of kid and to often baste them. 
When cooked dish it up, strain the liquor, remove all 
grease, pour it over the meat, and serve. 



CHAPTER XII. 

REMARKS ON PORK. 

The meat of the pig is rather indigestible. Nevertheless 
it occupies a very high position as a food in this as well 
as in other countries. Hippocrates, that famous anatomist, 
even considered pork to be the most nutritious of all flesh. 
Be that as it may, what should we do without pork ? 
Neither Italian nor French cooking could exist without it, 
at least, not as it ought to be. 

In Ireland, the pig is recognised as the ** gentleman '' 
who pays the rent. I do not think the fellow could hold 
such a financial position if he did not possess in himself a 
superior source of income to other four-footed animals. 

I do not know if his social position is as high in England ; 
but what I do know is, that he appears, under different 
forms, on the best spread tables in the kingdom, as well as 
on the poorest. He is therefore a necessity ; consequently 
I will now proceed to introduce his gastronomic qualities 
under the best possible forms. 

558. PORK CUTLETS. GHERKIN SAUCE. 

Cut and trim the pork cutlets in the same way as veal 
or mutton cutlets ; marinade them for about an hour with 
a little oil, salt, nutmeg, and pepper, and the juice of a 
lemon all well mixed together ; grill them over a clear fire 

about seven minutes on each side ; see that they are well 

27X 



272 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

done without being scorched; dish them up in the usual 
way, poiu: some Gherkin sauce (No. 192) in the centre of 
the dish, and serve. 

Note, — Pork cutlets plainly grilled as above can be sei-ved 
with any sharp sauce. 

569. PORK CUTLETS A LA MILANAISE. 

Proceed as in No. 558. When the cutlets have been 
properly marinaded, dry, and pass them over some beat«n 
eggs and bread-crumbs; fry them in a saut^pan with 
clarified butter, and serve with a garnish of either fresh 
mushrooms, spinach or beans, and Tomato sauce. 

Note, — Cutlets cooked as above can be served with any 
pur^ of vegetables or fried onions and a sharp sauce 
apart. 

6e0. PORK CUTLETS WITH STUFFING, 

Prepare and cook the pork cutlets in the same manner 
as veal cutlets k Tltalienne (see No, 530). 

661. PORK CUTLETS WITH PUR^E OF CHESNUTS. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as described ; put them in a 
buttered saut6-pan with a shred onion, some chopped 
parsley, and a few sprigs of thyme ; fry them on a brisk 
fire for a few minutes till the cutlets are nicely coloured 
on both sides; moisten with a little stock; season with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and simmer gently for about 
an hour. When properly glazed, drain, and dish up 
with a puree of chesnuts (No. 237) previously prepared 
for that purpose ; skim off carefully all the fat from the 
liquor, strain the gravy through a pointed strainer over 
the cutlets, and serva 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 273 

562. PORK CUTLETS A L'INDIENNE. 

Trim and fry the cutlets as in the foregoing ; drain off 
all the fat; add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151)) 
and a spoonful of curry-paste or one and a half spoonfuls 
of curry powder. Cover the sautd-pan and simmer gently 
for about fifteen minutes, taking care to turn the cutlets 
over during that time ; dish them up, £111 the centre with 
plain boiled rice, strain the sauce over the cutlets, and 
serve. 

568. ROAST NECK OF PORK. 

Saw off the chine -bone, and separate between the bones 
of a neck of pork with a small chopper or meat- saw. 
Prepare a stuffing for the pork, by chopping half a dozen 
sage-leaves and four onions of medium size; boil the 
mixture four minutes in plain water, then drain well, and 
put it in a stewpan with a large pinch of pepper, two of 
salt, and an ounce of butter; fry this on a slow fire for 
about ten minutes. Meanwhile score the outside part of 
the neck with a pointed knife ; make an incision to place 
the stuffing ; fasten the neck with stnng and roast it before 
a good fire for an hour and a quarter. When well done 
remove the string, dish the meat up, pour some good gravy 
on the dish, and serve with Apple sauce (No. 181) apart. 

564. ROAST LOIN OF PORK. 

Trim, score, and separate the bones of a loin of pork, as 

previously described for the neck ; make an incision in the 

upper part of the loin, to receive some pork stuffing, made 

as in the foregoing; tie the part round with string, and 

roast the meat before a brisk fire, for about an hour and 

a half. When well done remove the string, dish up the 

joint with some nice brown gravy, and serve with Apple 

sauce apart. 

8 



274 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

566. ROAST LEG OF PORK. 

Saw off the shank-bone of a fresh leg of pork; make 
a large incision below the knuckle, between the rind and 
meat, for the purpose of receiving the stuffing of sage and 
onions, previously made as for roast neck of pork. Secure 
this bj sewing it up with small twine; score with a 
pointed knife the skin in parallel lines a quarter of an 
inch apart, by holding the leg firmly with the left hand. 
Then roast it before a good fire for about two hours and a 
half. When done remove the twine, dish the leg up with 
some rich gravy, and serve with Apple sauce apart 

566. BOILED LEG OF PORE. 

Saw off the shank-bone of a salted leg of pork, put it 
in a large saucepan with four carrots, as many parsnips, 
and an onion stuck with three cloves. Fill the pan nearly 
full of cold water, and boil it gently for about three hours, 
more or less, according to the size of the leg. When the 
pork is done, drain, and dish it up with the parsnips 
and carrots altei*nately placed, as a garnish. Four some 
plain gravy under, and serve with peas-pudding made as 
follows : — Drain a pint of yellow split-peas soaked over- 
night in cold water; tie them loosely in a pudding-cloth 
and boil with the pork for about three hours ; turn them out 
of the cloth; pound in a mortar and rub the compound 
through a fine wire sieve, moistening at times with a little 
of the pork liquor, to help the puree passing; then put 
it in a stewpan with the yolks of three eggs, an ounce 
of butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; mix well 
together with a wooden spoon, on the fire ; spread a well- 
buttered pudding-cloth; place the pur^ in the centre of 
it ; with the left hand draw the corners up, and with the 
right tie round the pudding with string; put it again 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 275 

with the pork liquor to boil for an hour; then carefully 
turn it out on a dish without breaking, and serve. 



567. ROAST SUCKING PIG. 

A sucking pig for roasting should not be more than 
three weeks old, for after that the meat loses delicacy. 
Have the pig properly scalded, drawn, cleansed, and the 
pettitoes cut off before leaving the pork-butcher's. Fill 
the paunch with a stuffing similar to the one for roast 
neck of pork ; to which add, after the sage and onions have 
been fried, two or three handfuls of stale bread-crumbs, an 
ounce of butter, and the yolks of two eggs ; stir well and 
mix together over the fire for five minutes. When the 
sucking pig is well stuffed saw the paunch with twine; 
give it its usual shape, and carefully fasten it at each 
end on the spit with small iron skewers run through the 
shoulders and hips; put the spit with the meat to roast 
before a bright fire for about two hours, taking care to 
often baste it with a paste-brush dipped in olive-oil, as this 
style of basting gives more crispness to the skin and an 
even and good colour to the pig. 

When the meat is done remove from the fire and the spit. 
Cat off the head and split in two; put the brains in a 
small stewpan; trim off the snout and jaws, leaving only 
the cheeks and ears, and keep these hot ; divide the meat 
of the pig straight down the back to the spine with a sharp 
knife, and finish it with a meat- saw ; place the two sides 
on a hot dish, without disturbing the stuffing, take the 
twine or thread away, place the cheeks and ears at each 
end of the dish, pour some good brown gravy under, and 
serve with the following sauce: — Add to the brains set 
apart a spoonful of blanched chopped parsley, half a pint 
of Espagnole sauce or some good gravy, two ounces of 



276 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the juice of a lemon ; 
stir this well together over the fire, and when nearly 
boiling pour it in a sauce-boat. 

Note, — Tomato, Robert, Ravigote, or Italian sharp sauce 
can be substituted for this saiice. 

568. ROAST SUCKING PIG A LA PROVENgALE. 

Koast a quart of large chesnuts; remove their skins 
while hot, and pound them in a mortar with three ounce^s 
of butter ; rub this through a wire sieve and put the pur6e 
into a stewpan with a few chives, sweet-basil, parsley, 
thyme, and a bay-leaf well chopped, a little grated nut- 
meg, salt, pepper, and the yolks of three eggs. Mix these 
well together on the fire; fill the paunch of the sucking 
pig, and roast it in the same way as in the foregoing; 
after which, dish up in the same style and sei've with 
Tomato sauce apart. 

669. ROAST SUCKING PIG A LITALIENNE. 

Make a polenta (No. loo) with three-quarters of a pound 
of polenta flour and a quart of water. When nearly cooked 
add four ounces of picked sultana raisins, the same 
quantity each of grated parmesan cheese and butter, and 
a good pinch of grated nutmeg. When this has been well 
stiri-ed and mixed together, fill with it the paunch of a 
nice sucking pig prepared as in No. 567 ; fasten it with 
twine in the usual way ; roast the pig in the same manner ; 
cut it in the same style, and serve with Italian sauce 
(No. 205) in a sauce-boat apart. 

670. BOILED HAH WITH SPINACH. 

Care must be taken when about to cook a ham, after 
having previously sawn off the shank-bone and removed 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 277 

the thigh-bone, that it should have soaked in plenty of 
cold water, the length of ' time depending entirely upon 
the age of the curing of the ham. Properly seasoned home- 
cured hams should be soaked for at least twenty-four hours ; 
foreign hams require to be soaked even longer, varying 
from twenty-four hours to four days and nights. Care, 
however, should be taken that the water is changed every 
morning and night. English hams easily yielding to the 
pressure of the hands are new, and in such cases a soak- 
ing of six hours will be quite sufficient. It is also advisable, 
when a ham is being soaked for several days, that its shiny 
surface should be scraped off every time the water is 
changed. When the ham has had its proper soaking, fold 
around it about two pounds of good hay; then put it in 
a large oval pot or stewpan, with plenty of cold water; 
cover the pan and boil and simmer very gently on a slow 
fire for about four hours, or till it is done, according to 
the size of the ham. When the ham is done take the 
pan to a cool place, leaving it to soak in the hay liquor 
for about three-quarters of an hour, by which means it will 
retain the whole of its moisture ; if taken out of the pan 
to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham, having 
thus partially cooled, must be taken out, put on a dish, 
and trimmed. Divest it of the rind to within four inches 
from the knuckle-bone, then with a sharp knife trim the 
part of rind left, in the shape of either leaves, palms, squares, 
or ovals, arranged in a fan-like form. Trim the fat of the 
ham smooth, without however removing more of it than is 
actually necessary to give a neat appearance ; after which, 
put it on a baking-sheet in the hot oven, for ten or twelve 
minutes, then wipe the surface with a clean cloth, glaze 
with a brush, and return it to the hot oven for about five 
minutes. Meanwhile have some spinach ready on the fii*e ; 
dish up the ham and garnish with well-dressed spinach, 



278 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

placed round it in tablespoonfuls, and serve with Madeira 
sauce made as follows : — Put half a pint of Madeira or 
sherry in a stewpan, with a little meat-glaze and a small 
pinch of mignonette pepper. Boil on a brisk fire for ^ve 
minutes; add a pint of Espagnole sauce, and continue 
reducing it till the sauce has reached a proper consistency 
or coats the spoon ; then strain through a pointed strainer 
into the sauce-boat. 

Note. — I strongly advocate the use of hay when boiling 
hams, as the flavour thereby imparted is superior to all 
other ingredients or more expensive vegetables. 

571. BRAIZED HAH WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Follow the directions given in the foregoing as to the 
trimming and soaking of the ham ; boil it in water without 
hay for an hour ; strain and wash it clean, and wipe the 
pan ; replace the ham in it with two carrots, two onions, 
a head of celery, a " bouquet garni," two blades of mace, 
and four cloves. Moisten with sufficient ordinary stock to 
float the ham, and simmer very gently on a slow fire for 
about four hours, taking care not to allow it to boil but 
merely simmer, in order to obtain tenderness and mellow- 
ness. When done remove the pan with the ham to a 
cool place, leaving it, as in the foregoing, to cool in 
its liquor. When nearly cold take it out of the pan and 
trim it as described ; then put it back into the pan with 
its own stock, and warm it gently, without boiling, over a 
slow fire. When warmed through, place the ham on a 
baking-dish in the oven for a few minutes to dry the 
surface ; glaze and dish it up ; garnish round with stewed 
peas (No. 286); pour some bright Espagnole sauce over 
the peas, and serve. 

Note. — Hams boiled or braized as in Nos. 5 70 and 571 
can also be dressed with jardiniere, French, broad, or hari- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 279 

cot beans, green peas, new carrots, Brussels sprouts, and 
mac^doine. 



572. BAKED HAH, HOUSEWIFE STTLE. 

Put a ham that has been only trimmed and soaked, as 
previously described, in a large oval pan with plenty of 
cold water; boil, and let it simmer very gently for an 
hour; take the pan with the ham in it, away from the 
fire to get cold. Meanwhile mix to rather a thick paste, 
one pound and a half of flour with plain water. When 
the ham is cold take it out of the pan ; drain it ; remove 
the whole rind and trim off the fat; then wrap up the 
ham closely with the paste; fold this with a buttered 
sheet of paper ; fasten it on the spit, and roast before a 
moderate fire for some three hours, taking care meanwhile, 
to often baste the paper with any sort of fat. Then take 
the spit away from the fire, remove the paper carefully 
from the paste, without breaking the latter ; cut a small 
round hole in the centre of the paste, into which introduce, 
little by little, half a bottle of Madeira or Marsala wine ; 
stop up the hole with fresh paste; fold the ham again, 
with a buttered sheet of paper, and roast for half an 
hour longer. Then take it away from the fire, place on 
a dish, remove the paper and paste from around, and 
serve with Madeira sauce (see Boiled Ilam and Spinach) 
apart, together with a dish either of cauliflowers, haricot 
or French beans, green peas, or carrots, cooked in salt 
water. 



Remarks on Boar. 

The boar is a pig in a wild state, and its flesh although 
tough is similar to pork, except the head, which is the 



28o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

most delicate part. All other parts of the animal are 
cooked in the same manner as pork. 

573. BOAR CUTLETS A LA SARDE. 

Cut and trim the cutlets as described for pork cutlets, 
and marinade them for twenty -four hours. Half an hour 
before serving, drain and wipe the cutlets dry, and fry 
them in a saut^-pan, with butter, on a brisk fire, for eight 
minutes. When done drain the butter from the pan, 
moisten well with Mustard sauce (No. 223), and sea.son 
with salt and pepper. Let the cutlets simmer in this 
three minutes on each side, and then dish them up, pour 
the sauce over them, and serve with a garnish of potato 
pur^. 

574. BOAR CUTLETS, ENGUSH STYLE. 

Cut, trim, and marinade the cutlets for two or three 
days. Wipe them dry, pass them through clarified butter 
and bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear and brisk 
fire for four minutes e€u;h side; sprinkle some salt over 
each cutlet; dish up with a garnish of fresh mushrooms, 
either stewed or grilled, and serve with Goosebeny sauoe 
(No. 180) apart. 

575. BOAR CUTLETS A UESPAGNOLE. 

Cut and trim the cutlets and fry them in a sautd-pan 
with clarified butter over a brisk fire ; season with salt and 
pepper to taste, and when they are of a nice amber colour 
dish them up nicely in a circular form, add to the gravy 
in which the cutlets were cooked a glass of white wine, 
half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 1 5 1 ), a teaspoonf ul each 
of blanched chopped parsley and fennel ; reduce the sauce 
on a brisk fire for about five minutes ; pour it over the 
cutlets, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 281 

Boar's legs are cooked in the same style as legs of pork, 
but when about to be marinaded, add a gill of vinegar to 
the marinade. 



576. BOAR'S HEAD STUFFED. 

Singe and clean the head most carefully, and bone it, 
beginning under the throat, taking care not to cut the 
skin on the top when the knife passes over the bony part 
of the head ; remove all the fatty and sinewy parts from 
inside the head, and spread it out on a large dish and rub 
it well with a mixture of four pounds of salt, four ounces 
of saltpetre, and four ounces of moist sugar. When well 
rubbed all over, let it remain spread on the mixture ; cover 
the meat with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs each of thyme, 
sweet -basil, and parsley, one dozen cloves, and the slices 
of two onions, and put the dish in a cool place. Two days 
afterwards give it a second rubbing; spread the head on 
the opposite side; replace the aromatic herbs on the top, 
and let it remain thus for five or six days longer, taking 
care however, to turn the head over the brine every day 
during that time. To dress the head, take it out of the 
brine and wipe it well with a doth before laying it on the 
table. 

Chop up two pounds of lean veal free from skin and 
gristle, and one pound of fat bacon ; pound these together 
in the mortar, or pass it through the sausage-machine; 
season it well with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and put it 
on a dish apart. Cut a cured and cooked ox- tongue, two 
pounds of lean pork, two pounds of fat bacon, or the same 
quantity of calfs udder boiled in broth, and two pounds 
of peeled truffles, all cut in irregular shapes, but not larger 
than inch dice ; mix them, and then with the pounded meat 
make a layer on the inside of the head about an inch thick ; 



282 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

put a layer of the mixed dice of tongue &e. over this, with 
a few pistachio kernels, the skin of which must have heen 
previously removed by scalding ; cover these with a layer 
of meat, and proceed with the dice and pistachios alter- 
nately till the whole mixture is used. When the head is 
sufficiently filled, the two sides should be turned over and 
sewn up with a small trussing-needle and twine, so as to 
thoroughly secure the stuffing. The head must be wrapped 
in a strong and well-spread buttered cloth and bound round 
very tightly with tape an inch and a half wide, so as to 
preserve its original form. Place it in a large pan with 
any game carcasses or trimmings of meat there may be 
at hand, and four cow-heels, also a " bouquet garni," four 
carrots, four onions, with a clove stuck in each, a little 
ginger, salt, and pepper, a bottle of white wine, a ^ill of 
brandy, and as much stock as will be required to cover the 
head well ; then boil it, and simmer gently, with the lid on, 
for at least five hours ; after which ascertain if it is properly 
done by inserting a trussing-needle. If the needle does 
not go in easily, continue the simmering for a quarter op 
half an hour longer. Then remove the pan, and leave 
the head to cool in its own liquor. Before the broth is 
cold however, the head must be taken out. See if it has 
shrunk in the cloth ; if so it must be carefully tightened 
so as preserve its shape, and then put back into its broth 
to complete the cooling. When quite cold take the head 
out of the pan and put it in the oven for a minute or two, 
after having untied and removed the cloth; wipe off the 
fat from the surface with a clean cloth ; trim the back part 
of the head ; see that the ears have their proper form, and 
if not use some small wooden skewers, and hide these with 
a mixture of lard and mutton suet. Glaze the head with 
a dark-coloured glaze made for that purpose ; decorate the 
snout with a little piping ; place modelled tusks and  glass 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 283 

eyes to complete the dressing ; then dish up, and ornament 
with aspic jelly. 

Note, — Hog's-head is also stuffed as above ; but for this 
purpose the head should be cut off deep in the shoulders 
before the pig is scalded, and then the bristles singed with 
lighted straw so as to have all the appearance of a wild 
boar's head. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
REMARKS ON VENISON. 

The flesh of that iTuniaant and light-footed mammalian 
animal, the roehuck or deer, is both delicate and tasty, but 
must be hung in a draughty place for at least a fortnight 
before it is fit for the table. Those living in wild and 
mountainous parts are the best, and the pale-brown, 
yellow-colour breed is superior to the red one for cooking 
purposes. 

577. ROEBUCK CUTLETS A LA CHASSEUR. 

Boebuck cutlets should be cut in the same style as 
mutton cutlets, and after being trimmed, should be fried 
with clarified butter on a brisk fire and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Meanwhile have ready in a stewpan on the 
fire, some game essence (No. 172), to which add and warm 
up as many slices of cooked pickled ox -tongue as there are 
cutlets ; dish up the cutlets alternately with the slices of 
tongue, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

578. ROEBUCK CUTLETS A LA SURPRISE. 

Prepare and trim the cutlets of a well-hung neck of 

roebuck ; marinade them as mutton cutlets for two hours, 

and drain, flour, and fry them with butter on a brisk fire 

for two or three minutes on each side. Meanwhile have 

ready and cold a stuffing composed as follows : — Pound in 

a mortar a little cooked veal and ham free from skin and 

284 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 285 

gristle, season with salt, pepper, a good pinch of aromatic 
herbs, and a gill of rum, mix with the brains of the 
roebuck cooked in good broth and cut in very small dice, 
after having been previously washed and soaked in water 
in the usual way. Cover or surround both sides of the 
cutlets with this forcemeat, then pass them through bread- 
crumbs, beaten yolks of eggs, and bread-crumbs again ; fry 
them with clarified butter in a 8aut6-pan, and serve with 
Supreme sauce (No. 188) apart. 

579. ROEBUCK CHOPS, GRILLED. 

Cut and trim the chops of roebuck in the same manner 
as mutton chops, flatten them slightly with the cutlet- 
bat, broil over a moderate flre, turning them over every 
two or three minutes till done; then sprinkle each with 
salt and pepper ; dish them up, taking care not to spill the 
gravy that may be on their surface ; pour some good brown 
gravy under, and serve with some currant jelly apart. 

680. BREAST OF ROEBUCK A LA LTONNAISE. 

Cook the breast of a roebuck in good broth, to which 
a glass of white wine and a *' bouquet garni" have been 
added; when the meat is well done, drain, bone, press 
between two dishes, and let it get cold. Meanwhile skim 
off the fat and strain the broth in which the breast has 
l)oiled ; return it to the stewpan and reduce by one-third, 
over a brisk fire; then add one pound of nice chesnuts, 
previously peeled and blanched, so as to clean them of 
their second skin; continue the boiling till the chesnuts 
are well done and nicely glazed. When the meat is cold, 
cut it in pieces two inches wide ; squeeze the juice of two 
lemons and sprinkle some pepper and grated nutmeg over 
them; dip each piece in some clarified butter and bread- 



286 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cnunbe, and broil them for a few minutes over a dear fira 
When nicely browned dish them up in a circle, garnish the 
centre with the glazed cheanuts, and senre with the re- 
mainder of the glaze apart 



58L HARICOT OF ROEBUCK. 

Cut the scrag-end of the neck and breast of venison 
between each bone, put them in a sauto-pan, and fry to 
a nice brown ; drain off all the fat, and sprinkle over them 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Continue frying them for 
three or four minutes longer; after which, moisten with 
half a bottle of claret and a quart of broth ; add a " bouquet 
garni," two large carrots, and three turnips cut into fancy 
shapes, and a dozen small button onions ; set the pan over 
the fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon till it 
boils, then let it simmer gently for about an hour and a 
half. When the meat and vegetables are cooked, take 
them out of the saut^-pan with a large perforated spoon, 
and put them into another stewpan on the Are with half a 
pint of its liquor, free from fat, to keep it hot. Skim off 
all the grease from the remainder of the liquor, reduce it 
on a brisk fire to a half -glaze, strain it through a pointed 
strainer over the meat and vegetables, season with salt and 
pepper, simmer for five minutes, dish up and serve. 

682. ROEBUCK FRY. 

Clean and cut the fry of a roebuck into small scollops, 
season these with salt and pepper, and roll them well over 
the flour ; then fry them to a nice brown in a saute-pan 
with some clarified butter. When done, dish up with fried 
parsley, and serve with sharp Italian sauce (No. 205) 
apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 287 

583. ROEBUCK'S BRAINS. 

These brains are pi'epared, cooked, and fried in the same 
style as sheep's or calf's brains. 

584. JUGGED VENISON. 

Cut in three-inch pieces either shoulder or breast of 
venison ; fry these to a nice brown in a stewpan with some 
fat bacon that has been at least four days in brine ; drain 
off the fat ; sprinkle three tablespoonf uls of flour over the 
venison; fry it, and toss the stewpan for three minutes 
longer; moisten with a bottle of claret and a quart of 
broth; season with salt and pepper; add a *^ bouquet 
garni," and set the pan on the fire, stirring very frequently 
until it boils; then simmer gently. Meanwhile fry in 
butter for five minutes, two dozen small button onions, 
and when the venison has boiled for half an hour add to it 
the onions and a pint of button champignons; continue 
the simmering till the meat is done and tender, which will 
take about two hours, then throw the "bouquet garni" 
away ; skim off ail scum and grease from the surface, and 
pour it over a dish ; garnish round with fried crotitons cut 
triangle-shape, and serve. 

585. LOIN OR SADDLE OF ROEBUCK A L'ECOSSAISE. 

Trim nicely a well-hung loin or saddle of venison ; cover 
the fillet with thin slices of fat baoon, and place it in a 
large saut^-pan with a carrot, two onions sliced, a small 
"bouquet garni," four ounces of butter, six cloves, and 
four ounces of streaky bacon cut in narrow strips. Fry 
these on a moderate fire for an hour with the lid on, taking 
care to tuiii the meat and baste it often with the butter ; 
then add a pint of good broth, and continue simmering 



288 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and basting the meat till done. Meanwhile prepare some 
croquets of potatoes (No. 326). When the meat is ready 
dish it up, garnish with croquets of potatoes; strain the 
liquor in which the venison was cooked into a small stew- 
pan, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 151), with 
two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, and salt and pepper to 
taste ; stir this on the fire for a few minutes, or till the 
jelly is well melted, pour it in a sauce-boat, and serve. 

586. HAUNCH OF ROEBUCK ROASTED. 

Saw off the shank-bone; remove and pare away the 
sinews and dark skin of a well-seasoned haunch of venison ; 
wrap it in a buttered sheet of paper and roast it for about 
an hour before a good fire, taking care to baste it twice with a 
little butter. A quarter of an hour before the meat is ready 
remove the paper ; sprinkle some salt and pepper over it ; 
continue the roasting, and baste it once more. Then take 
the haunch away from the fire ; dish it up on a veiy hot 
dish, and serve with a sauce-boat of Venison sauce (Na 
196) and a dish of plain boiled French beans apart. 

Note, — Haunch of venison is generally served on a hot- 
water dish. 

687. HAUNCH OF ROEBUCK LARDED AND ROASTED. 

Trim and saw off the bone below the knuckle, of a haunch 
of venison; make a circular incision about six inches in 
diameter on the top of the leg with a pointed knife, and 
remove the skin, so as to leave the surface perfectly smooth 
and bare, in order to lard it rather thickly. Marinade it for 
two days in a liquor made as follows : — Fry in a stewpan 
w^ith an ounce of butter for five minutes a shred carrot 
and two onions, a few sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
two shalots, and two blades of mace; add a quart of 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 289 

boiling water, a pint of good vinegar, two tableepoonfuls 
of salt, and half a tablespoonful of pepper. Boil and 
simmer very gently for about half an hour, and pour the 
contents into an earthenware pan or basin large enough 
to hold the haunch of roebuck. After having marinaded 
this two days, take the joint out of the liquor three hours 
before serving, wipe it well, and butter it with a brush 
dipped in melted butter; then cover the leg with a soft 
paste made of flour and boiling water, well beaten and 
mixed, so as not to leave any clotting, taking care, also, 
that the paste should be hot when wrapping the leg with 
it, in order that its layer should not be more than the 
sixteenth of an inch thick; after which, cover this with 
two well-buttered sheets of paper, and roast before a 
moderate fire for two hours and a half or more, according 
to the size of the leg; then remove the paper and paste 
from the meat, dish it up on a hot- water dish, and serve 
with a sauce made as follows : — Boil and strain through 
a cloth the liquor in which the haunch was marinaded ; 
brown nicely in a stewpan one ounce of flour with one 
of butter ; moisten it with the marinade, stirring the while, 
and reduce it by a quarter of its quantity over a brisk 
fire ; add a gill of port wine, stir again over the fire, and 
serve. 

Note, — A haunch of venison can remain in the marinade 
in a cool place for a week or more without fear of being 
spoilt. It can also be roasted without a coat of paste 
round it, and then one hour will be sufficient to cook it. 

688. HASHED VENISON. 

The remains of the leg or haunch should be cut in thin 
slices not more than two and a half inches square. Put 
about a pint of Venison sauce (No. 196) in a stewpan on 
the Are ; when it boils add the slices of meat to it ; draw 



290 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the stewpan by the side of the fire and cover it. Let 
the meat warm up gradually, by tossing the pan frequently, 
without, however, letting the contents boU. When properly 
warmed dish up in a large hot dish, with the sauce poured 
over, and serve with crotitons fried in butter. 



Eeharks ok Hare. 

The flesh of this puny quadruped is always savoury, but 
varies in taste according to the nature of herbs it feeds 
on ; those living on high and mountainous ground are 
superior in flavour and delicacy to those living on marshy 
land. These can be recognised by the colour of the fur ; 
the darker the back and the whiter the under part the 
better the hare. Hares should only be eaten in winter. 

689. JUGGED HARE. 

In skinning a hare, draw the blood carefully through a 
fine strainer into a basin containing an ounce of melted 
butter, and keep it covered in a cool place till wanted. 
Throw away the whole of the intestines ; wipe the hare 
with a cloth and cut it into two-and-a-half-inch pieces ; put 
these in a jar or basin to marinade for one day if possible, 
with a bottle of claret and some aromatic herbs, such as 
bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

When wanted, brown in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
butter, four ounces of streaky bacon cut in strips, two inches 
long by half an inch thick, two onions, two medium-sized 
carrots, one head of celery, and two leeks, all nicely shred, 
and a "bouquet garni." When properly browned, moisten 
with a gill of good vinegar, stir, and let this dry in the 
stewpan on the flro with the vegetables. Then moisten 
with the wine in which the hare has soaked ; add the pieces 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 291 

of hare and a quart of broth; salt and pepper to taste; 
boil, stir occasionally, and draw by the side of the stove to 
simmer very gently, with the lid on, and stir occasionally. 
Meanwhile fry in butter two dozen button onions to a nice 
golden colour all round ; glaze them in a pint of Espagnole 
sauce or some good veal stock till well done. When the 
pieces of hare are tender pass the liquor through a fine wiro 
sieve ; put the pieces of meat and bacon into a bain-marie 
to keep hot; return the strained sauce into the stewpan 
and reduce it on a brisk fire if necessary. Draw it away 
from the fire; skim off the fat, and add gradually about 
half a pint of the sauce to the basin containing the pre- 
served blood, taking care to stir quickly in order to mix 
the two well together ; return this to the stewpan, stirring 
the while ; after which, skim off the fat from the onions, 
and pour these with their glaze into the blood sauce. Add 
also two dozen forcemeat balls, made with sausage-meat and 
the yolks of two eggs well mixed together, rolled into small 
nuts and fried to a nice brown in boiling fat. Stir the 
whole over the fire till nearly boiling, pour it over the hare, 
and keep hot till wanted; dish up together, garnished 
with a dozen croiltons. 



590. CIVET OF HARE. 

Skin, preserve the blood, clean, and cut a hare in the 
same manner as described in No. 589. Cut half a pound of 
streaky bacon into one-inch dice, fry these in a stewpan to 
a yellow colour and put them on a plate ; fry afterwards, 
in the same pan, the pieces of hare to a brown colour ; 
sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls of flour, and continue 
the frying for three minutes longer, tossing, meanwhile, 
the pieces of meat in the pan. Then add the fried bacon, 
a small carrot, a ** bouquet garni,*' an onion stuck with four 



292 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cloves, salt and pepper to taste; moisten with a bottle of 
claret and a quart of broth ; stir till it boils, and remove 
to the side to simmer gently with the lid on. Mean- 
while fry a dozen button onions in a stewpan, with an 
ounce of butter, for five minutes, add them, with a pint 
of champignons sliced in two, to the civet, after the latter 
has simmered for at least half an hour; then continue 
gently boiling till the hare is done. When the pieces of 
hare are tender skim off all the fat from the surface ; 
remove the bouquet, large onion, and carrots; dish up 
the meat and bacon ; pour half a pint of the hare sauce 
gradually into the basin containing the blood; stir this 
constantly ; pour it back with the civet sauce ; stir on the 
fire till it nearly boils ; pour it over the hare, garnish with 
fried croCitons, and serve. 



591. LEVERET A LA CHASSEUR. 

Cut up the leveret into small joints as follows : — Separate 
the hind- legs even with the loins, remove the shoulders, 
divide the loin into six parts, and split the head and neck 
in halves. Place all these in a saut^pan with two ounces 
of butter, fry them of a light-brown colour over a brisk 
fire, then add a tablespoonful of chopped shalots, parsley, 
and mushrooms, well mixed together ; put the lid on and 
simmer for about ten minutes ; after which, drain off the 
grease, add a pint of good broth, half a pound of nice clean 
mushrooms, a piece of glaze as big as a walnut, a little 
grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Simmer the whole 
with the lid on for ten minutes. Squeeze the juice of half 
a lemon ; stir the contents ; dish up the pieces of hare and 
mushrooms ; pour the sauce over, and serve with a garnish 
of crofttons fried in clarified butter. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 293 

692. FILLETS OF HARE LARDED. VENISON SAUCE. 

Fillet two hares and split these into halves; lard them 
in the same style as i^Uets of beef, and place them at 
the bottom of a stewpan lined with thin layers of fat 
bacon. Moisten with half a pint of Madeira and half a 
pint of good veal stock. Season with two bay -leaves, salt, 
and pepper ; put a round of buttered paper on the fillets, 
and set them in the oven to simmer for twenty- five minutes, 
taking care to often baste them with their own liquor. 
When they are nearly done remove the paper in order to 
dry and glaze the larding ; drain the fillets upon a cloth ; 
dish them up in a circle ; pour in the centre some Venison 
sauce (No. 196), and serve. 

698. HARE'S BACK WITH SHARP ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Lard the back of a hare with small strips of fat bacon ; 
^ on the spit and wrap in a buttered sheet of paper ; then 
roast it before a clear fire for twenty-five minutes; re< 
move the paper; continue roasting and basting for five 
minutes longer, wheii the meat will be glazed, and then 
dish up and serve with some Italian sauce (No. 205) in a 
sauce-boat apart. 

6M. ROAST HARE. 

Skin a hare (saving the blood) and clean it as previously 
described. Cross the hind-legs ; that is, pass one through 
the other; roll the flank round on each side and secure 
it with wooden skewers. Hold the loin and legs over the 
fii*e for a few minutes, to set the flesh and facilitate larding. 
Lard the thick part of the legs and fillet ; put the hare on 
the spit ; cover it with buttered paper, but see that it is 
doubled over the fillets; then roast it before a good fire 
for thirty -five minutes, making the. fire more brisk on the 



294 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

side of the hind-quarter. ^Remove the paper; glaze the 
hare by basting it with its own gravy for two or three 
minutes longer; after which, dish it up with the gravy. 
Meanwhile have ready a pint of Yenison sauce with which 
the blood of the hare has been diluted and thickened as 
described for jugged hare. Pour this into a sauce-boat 
and serve with the hare. 



Remarks ox Babbits. 

There are two kinds of rabbits, the wild and tame, the 
former being the better of the two. Rabbits, being so very 
fertile in their progeny, are always plentiful in the market, 
and can at all times be had for a trifle ; therefore I should 
consider it a sin if we were not to prepare and serve them 
in the most advantageous and best possible manner known 
in cookery. 

The flesh of young rabbits is very tender, as well as a 
delicate and wholesome food, and makes good and nutritious 
soups. 

To farmers and others living in pountry places, where 
butcher's meat can only be had with difficulty, this animal 
is a great boon, as it affords them fresh meat, a food so 
essential for health and strength to mankind. The flesh 
of tame rabbits can be made equal in taste and flavour 
to that of wild, if they are given some aromatic plants to 
eat for a few days previous to being killed. 

595. STEWED RABBIT. 

Skin, draw, and wash a rabbit clean ; cut it into two or 
thi*ee inch pieces; slice a quarter of a pound of streaky 
bacon into two-inch strips half an inch thick ; fiy them in 
a sautd-pan, with an ounce of butter, to a yellow colour ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 295 

remove the bacon to a plate ; fry the pieces of rabbit in 
the same pan for ten minutes; sprinkle over them two 
tablespoonfuls of flour; continue to fry and stir on the 
fire for three minutes longer; add half a pint of good 
broth, half a pint of claret , a '* bouquet garni," salt' and 
pepper to taste, eighteen small button onions, previously 
fried in butter, and the strips of fried bacon. Simmer this 
with the lid on for about twenty minutes; take out the 
" bouquet garni," dish up the stew, and serve with fried 
crodtons. 

596. BABBIT STEWED A LA CHASSEUR. 

Skin, draw, and wash a rabbit clean ; cut off each hind- 
leg at the joint, even with the loins ; remove the shoulders 
in the same way; separate the neck from the head; split 
both in halves, and divide the loin or back into six pieces. 
Put these into a saut^-pan with two ounces of clarified 
butter, and fry them over a brisk fire to a nice brown 
colour; then sprinkle over them a tablespoonful each of 
finely chopped shalots, parsley, and fresh mushrooms ; cover 
the pan and set it over a slow fire for about ten minutes ; 
after which, sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour ; toss and 
stir over the fire for two or three minutes longer ; add a 
pint of broth, a small piece of meat-glaze, and half a 
pound of fresh mushrooms ; season with salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of grated nutmeg. Simmer this for ten minutes, 
taking care to stir it occasionally, and then squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over the contents; stir again; dish up 
with a garnish of croiitons, and serve. 

597. RABBIT A LA PROVENgALE. 

After having skinned and cleaned a rabbit in the usual 
way, cut it into two-inch pieces ; put a gill of salad-oil into 
a saut^-pan with a clove of garlic chopped very fine ; fry 



296 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

the pieces of rabbit with it to a nice brown colour over a 
brisk fire ; drain off the fat ; moisten with a pint of bi-oth, 
half a pint of Tomato sauce, six fresh tomatoes cut in 
quarters, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir this over 
the fire and simmer gently with the lid on for twenty 
minutes ; sprinkle a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley 
a few minutes before removing the pan from the fire; 
then dish it up, pour the sauce over, and serve. 

598. CURRIED RABBIT. 

Clean and cut a rabbit as in the foregoing; cut in small 
dice two onions of medium size, and fry them in a saut6- 
pan over a moderate fire for five minutes, with two ounces 
of butter and an ounce of curry powder ; stir the while, 
to prevent burning. Then add the pieces of rabbit, and 
brown them round slightly ; after which, sprinkle over the 
lot three tablespoon fuls of flour. Continue the stirring 
three minutes longer ; add a quart of good stock and salt 
and pepper to taste, and simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour with the lid on, when the rabbit will be done. Pour 
the contents pf the saut^-pan into a colander, over a basin ; 
clean and put the pieces of rabbit into a stewpan ; strain 
the sauce from the basin through a tammy into the stewpan 
with the rabbit ; all but boil it, and then dish it up ; pour 
the sauce over, and serve with half a pound of rice, pre- 
viously boiled in plain water, properly washed afterwards 
in cold water, to remove the starch and separate the grain, 
and either warmed up by steam or spi^ead on a dish in a 
hot closet to dry and warm. 

599. RABBIT A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Prepare a rabbit as before, and brown the pieces in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, then drain off the 
grease, add a quart of Keapolitan sauce (No. 208), pre- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 297 

viously made for the purpose, salt and pepper to taste, and 
simmer for an hour with the lid on, taking care to give it 
an occasional stir ; then sprinkle a tablespoonf ul of finely 
chopped and blanched parsley, and squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over the contents j stir the lot for half a minute ; 
dish it up ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

600. RABBIT A LA POULETTE. 

Clean and cut a rabbit in small joints, put these in a 
stewpan with a '^ bouquet garni," two onions esich stuck 
with three cloves, one head of celery, one carrot, a gill of 
vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and enough stock or 
water to cover the whole. Simmer it for about an hour 
with the lid on. Meanwhile prepare some Poulette 
sauce (No. 179). When the meat is cooked and tender, 
strain the broth through a colander into a basin, to be 
used as soup ; put the pieces of rabbit in the stewpan 
with the Poulette sauce, toss these up over the fire for 
two minutes without boiling, then dish it up with the 
sauce poured over, and garnish with fried crodtons before 
serving. 

601. ROAST RABBIT. 

Skin, draw, and clean a rabbit ; cut the fore-legs at the 
first joint, and the hind-legs above the knuckle-joint ; then 
truss it by securing th^ head with string passed between 
the shoulders and the hind- legs, crossed in the same style 
as for roast hare. Tie with a string a slice of fat bacon 
on the back of the rabbit ; dish it up, and serve with Hare 
saoce (No. 200) apart. 

Note. — Rabbits, besides being prepared as in the fore- 
going methods, can also be dressed in almost every variety 
of form in which chickens cut in small quarters are 
prepared, and they are also made into pur6e, quenelles, 
croquets, and salpicons. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

REMARKS ON POULTRY. 

Although England is rich in poultry, the supply is far 
from being equal to the demand, and the quality (apart 
from Surrey chickens) is not what it should be ; hence the 
large importation of that most delicate and nutritious of 
all food from various foreign countries. 

There is no country in the world where encouragements 
for breeding poultry are more oflFered and better recom- 
pensed than in England, nearly every town in each 
county having its poultry-show, and valuable prizes are 
yearly given, as well as fabulous prices paid for bird 
winners, ;^ioo having been paid for a game-cock a few 
years ago at the Crystal Palace show; but the greatest 
number of exhibitors are fancy breeders, whose only aim 
is perfect plumage and colour, instead of quality and 
quantity of flesh. 

If the authorities were to award prizes to the largest 
poultry breeders of their respective counties, the efiPect 
would be different, and the nation as well as the farmers 
would benefit. 

Several kinds or species of birds are included in poultry, 
such as chickens, capons, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons, 
guinea-fowls, swans, and pea-hens, and those are of different 
breeds, especially the chickens, pigeons, and ducks. Dork- 
ing and game fowls are considered the best for the table ; 

the former are recognised by their double claws, and the 

398 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 299 

latter by their slate-coloured legs. Real Surrey chickens 
possess a well-deserved reputation for plumpness, tender- 
ness, and delicacy of flavour. 

Both knowledge and care are required to select good 
poultry ; old and tough fowls can easily be detected by a 
slight tinge of violet seen through the skin of the thigh, 
as well as by the thin necks and feet. A young and tender 
chicken has always large feet and big knee-joints, which 
disappear with age; the flesh of the pinion and breast 
should be tried, and if these are found to be tender the 
bird can be cooked with confidence. 

An old turkey has, in a similar manner, a violet tinge on 
the legs and back, but a young one will be recognised by 
the whiteness of its flesh and fat. 

The fat of young ducks and geese is transparent and 
light- coloured. Break off the lower part of the beak; if 
it breaks easily the bird is young. 

Pigeons when old have flllets of a dark violet colour, but 
when it is of a light red they are young birds. 

Beware of floured poultry, as well as of broken breasts. 

602. STEWED CHICKEN WITH RISOTTO. 

Select a nice plump tender chicken, draw and singe 
it over the flame of a gas-burner, cut it up in small 
joints in the following manner : — Lay the chicken on the 
table with the head towards you, and with a sharp knife 
in the right hand cut off the neck, then the wings or 
pinions at the second joint, then the legs at the knotty 
bend of the first joint; then make an incision from the 
point of the breast-bone to the wing-joint on both sides ; 
turn the chicken round and make two other incisions to 
separate the thighs from the body; take off both wings 
and thighs, by laying the chicken on its side; separate 
the breast from the back and cut across in two. Put 



300 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

these pieces in a saut^pan with two ounces of butter 
and fry them to a nice brown ; moisten with a pint and 
a half of good broth and a gill of Marsala; season with 
salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; simmer with 
the lid on till the pieces of chicken are done, which will 
take about half an hour. Meanwhile prepare a thick 
risotto (see Risotto). When the chicken is ready, remove 
the pieces on to a dish and keep them hot ; add the gravy 
to the risotto ; stir, and dish it up when cooked ; arrange 
the pieces of chicken nicely on the top; place the two 
pieces of the back in the middle of the dish ; lay across, 
one over the other, the two legs, the two pieces of neck, 
and the pinions ; fill up the other two openings or squares 
thus formed with the thighs and wings, and cover the lot 
with the two pieces of breast, and server 



603. STEWED CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 

Cut a tender chicken in small joints as in the foregoing. 
Melt in a saut6-pan an ounce of butter with a gill of salad- 
oil ; add a bruised clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, two sprigs of 
thyme, salt and pepper to taste ; fry the pieces of chicken 
with these, for about twenty-five minutes on a brisk fire 
until the pieces are done, when they must be removed from 
the saut^-pan, placed on a dish, and kept hot ; throw away 
the aromatic herbs, and pour half a pint of Tomato sauce 
into the saut^-pan, with the half of that quantity of good 
broth or gravy and a dozen sliced champignons ; stir this 
and let it boil for five minutes over a brisk fire, then draw 
the pan away, add the juice of half a lemon, stir the con- 
tents well together, dish up the pieces of chicken in the 
same way as in No. 602, garnish the dish with the chain> 
pignons and croiitons fried in butter, and as many eggs 
fried in oil as there are persons, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 301 

604. STEWED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut up the chicken as for stewed chicken with risotto. 
Melt in a saut6-pan an ounce and a half of butter, put 
the pieces of chicken in the pan, taking care not to lay 
one over the other ; sprinkle salt and pepper to taste, and 
fry for about twenty-five minutes on rather a brisk fire, 
turning the pieces of meat over when wanted. Mean- 
while prepare a brown garnish of mushrooms (No. 301). 
When the chicken is done, dress the pieces on a dish, 
garnish with the mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and 
serve with a few crotitons. 

605. STEWED CHICKEN, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Cut up a chicken ; shred a middle-sized onion and carrot ; 
fry these in a stewpan for five minutes with a quarter of 
a pound of butter, stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; 
add the pieces of chicken, season with salt and pepper, 
and continue the frying and stirring for another Civq 
minutes. Spread four tablespoonfuls of flour; fry for 
three minutes longer, and moisten with a pint and a half 
of good stock and four ripe tomatoes cut in quarters ; 
stir the contents till boiling to prevent burning, and 
simmer twenty minutes with the lid on. Add half a 
pound of fresh mushrooms properly cleaned and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley; simmer for another ten 
minutes; see that the sauce is well seasoned; dish up, 
and serve. 

606. STEWED CHICKEN A LA CHASSEUR. 

Select a nice tender chicken ; draw, singe, and cut it up 
in the same style as the foregoing ; place the pieces in a 
saut^-pan with two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil and one ounce 



302 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of butter; fry these over a brisk fire for &ve minutes; 
sprinkle in two shalots chopped fine; stir the contents 
over the fire for another five minutes ; moisten with half a 
pint of dry white wine ; add a quarter of a pound of fresh 
mushrooms properly cleaned and finely sliced 7 season with 
salt, pepper, and two bay-leaves. Ck>ntinue the stewing for 
fifteen minutes longer, taking care to turn the meat over 
as required ; then add a piece of glaze the size of a nut 
and a simiLir quantity of fresh butter ; stir it till properly 
melted, and when done dish up the pieces of chicken. 
Squeeze the juice of a lemon and add a teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley to the sauce ; stir it over the fire for a few 
seconds ; pour it over the chicken, and serve. 

607. FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Gut up a good chicken as in No. 602 ; drop the pieces 
into a basin containing two quarts of clear lukewarm 
water, and let them soak for fifteen minutes; drain and 
put into a stewpan with one quart of water, an onion with 
a clove stuck in it, a "bouquet garni," a sliced carrot, and 
the quarter of a head of celery ; season well with salt and 
pepper, and boil it ; skim carefully, then simmer for about 
half an hour with the pan partly covered, when the pieces 
of chicken will be done. Strain the broth through a 
colander into a basin and keep it apart; immerse the 
pieces of chicken in cold water and drain them on a clean 
cloth. Meanwhile stir for five minutes in a stewpan over 
the fire without browning, two ounces of flour, with the same 
quantity of very fresh butter ; add gradually the chicken 
broth and the liquor in which half a pint of champignons 
have boiled for five minutes ; stir the contents well whilst 
over the fire, so as to work it into a smooth sauce till it 
boils, when the stewpan must be drawn from the fire ; let 
it simmer for about half an hour, in order to throw up the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 303 

scum ; then skim it, and thicken the sauce with the yolks 
of four eggs, in the usual way ; stir this over the fire until 
it is nearly boiling, pass it through a tammy or gravy- 
strainer into the stewpan already containing the pieces 
of chicken; add to it the cooked champignons and an 
ounce of butter; stir this gently over the fire, and when 
near ebullition dish up the pieces of chicken in the usual 
manner; pour the sauce over; garnish with the cham- 
pignons and fried croiitons, and serve. 

608. STEWED CHICKEN A LA PROVENgALE. 

Slice two large onions into rings, and fry them in a 
saut4-pan with half a gill of olive-oil, till of a nice light- 
brown colour; then add the pieces of a tender chicken, 
cut as for stewed chicken and risotto; season with 
salt and pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, and 
a crushed clove of garlic. Fry these on a brisk fire to 
a nice brown colour, for about twenty minutes. Mean- 
while stew for five minutes in a stewpan half a pound 
of fresh mushrooms and four shalots chopped fine, together 
with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Moisten the 
whole with a tablespoonful of salad-oil and a gill of 
Madeira wine; then add a gill each of either Espagnole 
sauce or good broth and Tomato sauce, and boil it. 
When the pieces of chicken have simmered for twenty 
minutes, take them out with a fork and put in the stew- 
pan with the sauce. Simmer together with the lid on for 
seven or eight minutes ; dish up the chicken in the usual 
way ; pour the sauce over, and serve. 

609. STEWED CHICKEN A L'AFRICAINE. 

Cut up a chicken as for stewed chicken and risotto; 
cut also half a pound of raw ham or gammon in slices 



304 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

three inches long by about two wide ; melt two ounces of 
clarified butter in a stewpan ; add the pieces of chicken 
and ham, together with a small " bouquet garni " composed 
of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and a clove of garlic ; season 
with a small pinch of cayenne, and fry it over a good 
fire till the pieces of chicken have acquired a nice golden 
colour; drain off the fat; moisten with three parts of a 
pint of good white stock (veal broth), a gill of French 
white wine, a small piece of gla^e, half a teaspoonful of 
curry paste, and half a pound of fresh mushrooms properly 
cleaned and cut in small pieces ; let the contents boil for 
about fifteen minutes with the pan partly covered ; after 
which, draw the stewpan away from the fire ; remove the 
** bouquet garni;" add half an ounce of butter and the 
juice of half a lemon ; dish up the pieces of chicken alter- 
nately with the slices of ham ; pour the sauce over ; decorate 
the base of the dish with fried crodtons, and serve. 

610. CURRIED r;HICKEN. 

Cut up a chicken as in the foregoing ; shred and fry an 
onion in a stewpan with an ounce of butter for alx)ut three 
minutes ; add the pieces of chicken and continue the frying 
till they are slightly coloured all over ; sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of flour ; season with salt and pepper ; stir over 
the fire for three minutes longer, and moisten with a pint 
of good stock and half a tablespoon ful of curry paste. 
Simmer it for about twenty minutes with the pan half 
covered ; pour the contents of the stewpan into a colander 
over a basin ; clean the stewpan ; rub the sauce through 
a tammy or hair-sieve into the stewpan again. Take up 
from the colander each piece of chicken, clean and return 
them to the stewpan with the sauce, and warm them up 
without boiling. Meanwhile have some rice cooked as for 
curried rabbit. When the sauce is all but boiling dish 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 305 

up the pieces of chicken ; pour the sauce over, and serve 
with the boiled rice apart. 

611. STEWED CHICKEN AND MUSSELS. 

Cut up the chicken in small joints as in the foregoing, 
fry these in a saut^-pan all round to a nice golden colour 
with two ounces of clarified butter, and season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten with a pint of veal 
stock or Espagnole sauce; simmer it for about twenty 
minutes ; after which, skim off the fat, add two quarts of 
mussels (No. 306) previously cooked for the purpose ; let 
it simmer for a few minutes ; squeeze in the juice of half 
a lemon; toss the contents, and dish up the pieces of 
chicken in the usual way; pour the sauce over; garnish 
round with the mussels and half a dozen croiitons fried in 
butter, and serve. 

Note, — Oysters may be substituted for mussels. 

612. STEWED CHICKEN A LA SICILIENNE. 

Cut a nice and tender chicken in the usual way ; place 
the pieces in a saut^-pan with an ounce of butter, two 
ounces of streaky bacon cut in dice, and a shred onion ; 
fry them to a nice brown on a brisk fire; moisten with 
either a pint of broth or water ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a bay-leaf, and let it simmer for about twenty minutes. 
Meanwhile prepare a Sicilian sauce (Na 211) and a pur^ 
of chesnuts (No. 237). When the pieces of chicken are 
well done lay the pur^ on a dish, dress on this the pieces 
of chicken and bacon ; pour a little Sicilian sauce over, and 
serve with the remainder of the sauce apart. 

618. STEWED CHICKEN A LA PI^HONTAISE. 

Fry with two ounces of butter in a sautd-pan the pieces 

of a chicken (cut as above), with a bay-leaf, a few sprigs 

u 



3o6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

of thyme, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; 
when of a nice colour all over moisten with either a pint 
of Kspagnole sauce or good gravy ; simmer it for twenty- five 
minutes hy the side of the fire. Meanwhile make a polenta 
(No. loo), and when it is well cooked and the pieces of 
chicken are tender, lay the polenta on a hot dish ; arrange 
the pieces of chicken in a pyramidal form; reduce the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked to a half-glaze, 
then strain it through a pointed gravy-strainer over the 
chicken, and serve. 

Note. — A few truffles cut in thin slices and cooked with 
the chicken will greatly improve this. 



614. FRITOT OF CHICKEN A LTTAUENKE. 

After having singed, drawn, and cut a chicken as for 
stewed chicken with risotto, marinade the pieces in a 
hasin for three or four houra with half a gill of salad-oil, 
the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper, a few sprigs of 
thyme and parsley, one bay-leaf, and a sliced onion. Then 
dry them on a cloth, flour them well all over, and fry 
them in properly heated fat to a nice golden colour. When 
done drain the pieces of chicken on a cloth; dish them 
up in the usual way ; garnish with fried eggs and croiktons, 
and serve with Italian sauce in a sauce-boat apart. 

615. FRITOT OF CHICKEN A LA HILANAISE. 

Cut up a chicken as in No. 614; rub each piece with 
clarified butter, and when well set dip them into some light 
batter and fry thein in the hot fat to a nice golden colour. 
Meanwhile have some macaroni Milanaise (No. 94) ready, 
dish it up with the pieces of chicken on the top in a pyra- 
midal form, and serve with Tomato sauce apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 307 

616. CHICKEN WITH DEVILLED SAUCE. 

Draw and singe a chicken carefully ; then twist the legs 
neatlj through the sides, without, however, tearing the 
skin, and cut it lengthwise through the hreast-bone into 
halves, without separating it at the back ; remove as many 
bones as possible without interfering with the shape of 
the chicken ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, rub both sides 
with clarified butter, and broil them on a moderate fire for 
eight or ten minutes on each side. When of a nice brown 
colour and properly done, dish up the chicken with some 
Devilled sauce (No. 201) poured under, and serve. 

617. BOILED CHICKEN WITH TARRAGON. 

Draw, singe, and trim the feet and wings of a nice 
chicken ; cut the under part of the thighs close up to the 
bend of the joint ; loosen the skin all round the thighs by 
introducing the fingers through the vent, and push the legs 
inside so that the feet only are seen ; lay the chicken on its 
breast, twist the pinions round to make them lie even with 
the back, turn the skin of the breast upon the back, then 
run a trussing-needle and string through the pinion on 
the left, and again through its lower joint on through the 
upper joint of the thigh ; the needle must now be brought 
round and inserted through the other wing in a similar 
manner, and the strings drawn tight and fastened. The 
legs must also be secured by running the needle through 
the upper part, leaving the drum-sticks under, and pass 
the needle through the back, then draw and tie the strings, 
so as to give the chicken a plump appearance ; rub it with 
half a lemon to keep it white, and place it in a stewpan 
with a pint and a half of water, an onion with two cloves 
stuck in it, a small " bouquet garni " (no garlic), salt and 
pepper to taste, and two or three sprigs of tarragon. Boily 



3o8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and simmer very gently for about thirty-five minutes with 
the lid on, taking care to turn the chicken over after a 
quarter of an hour's ebullition. When the chicken is done, 
strain the gravy through a pointed gravy-strainer into a 
small stewpan ; add a few drops of caramel to give it a 
rich colour, and set it on the fire to boil fast for about 
seven minutes, in order to reduce it to a half-glaze. Mean- 
while untie the chicken, place it on a dish with two or 
three sprigs of tarragon blanched in boiling water for two 
minutes, and keep hot. When the sauce has reached its 
proper consistency pour it over the chicken, and serve. 

Note, — The chicken will eat better if broth is substituted 
for water. 

618. BOILED CHICKEN WITH ROCK-SALT. 

Clean and truss a good chicken as in Na 617; rub it 
with lemon, and cook it in the same manner. When the 
broth has been properly reduced pour it over the chicken ; 
place a good teaspoonful of rock-salt on. the breast, and 
serve. 

619. BOILED CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

Prepare, truss, and cook a chicken in a quart of broth as 
in the foregoing. When the chicken is done strain the 
broth into another stewpan, and keep the chicken hot 
by the side of the fire. Meanwhile boil half a pound of 
properly washed rice (see Rice) with the strained broth for 
about eighteen minutes; then add a pinch of grated nut- 
meg, a tablespoonful of grated cheese, and half an ounce 
of butter. Mix these well together and pour it over a disli, 
put the chicken on it, sauce over with about a gill of 
B^hamel sauce, and serva 

Note. — If half a pint of the chicken broth is kept apart 
in a small stewpan after being strained, and then reduced 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 309 

to an essence or half-glaze, it can be substituted for 
Bechamel sauce. 

620. ROAST CHICKEN. 

It is advisable when about to roast poultry to dip the 
bird or birds into boiling water for two minutes, in order 
to open the pores of the skin, which process will make the 
meat eat very tender and more juicy than otherwise. 

After having selected a good chicken, drawn, singed, and 
trussed, for roasting in a similar way as for boiling, but 
without pushing the legs under the thighs, butter a sheet 
of paper as well as the breast of the chicken ; fold the sheet 
of paper over, tie it round with string, and set it to roast 
before a moderate fire for about thirty-five minutes. When 
the chicken is done untie the string ; dish up ; strain, and 
free the gravy from grease ; pour it over the chicken ; 
garnish round with water-cress, previously sprinkled with 
salt, pepper, and vinegar, and serve. 

Note, — Rashers of bacon fried and Bread sauce are some- 
times served with roast chicken. 



621. CHICKEN WITH MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

This dish is generally made with the remnants of chicken. 
Cut the cold chicken in pieces ; place on a dish the hearts 
of a few French lettuces, properly cleaned, dried, and cut 
in quarters; keep four of the nicest apart; dress the pieces 
of chicken over the salad ; pour sufficient Mayonnaise sauce 
(No. 2 1 9) to cover and coat the chicken ; decorate the dish 
with the four quarters of lettuce and some hard-boiled eggs 
also cut in quarters ; add, in a similar manner, a few slices 
of cooked beetroot cut in fancy shapes, and the fillets of 
three or four anchovies, properly boned and twisted round 
the finger, and serva 



3IO PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

622. CHICKEN WITH TARTARE SAUCE. 

This is prepared in the same style as the foregoing, but 
substitute Tartare sauce (No. 221) for Mayonnaise. 

623. BOUDINS OF CHICKEN A LA RICHELIEU. 

Make some chicken forcemeat (No. 272), rather stiff; 
add to it an onion cut in small dice, previously blanched, 
drained, and fried in plenty of butter for about eight 
minutes without colouring; then butter some strips of 
kitchen paper four inches long by two and a half wide; 
lay on these lengthwise about three inches of forcemeat 
one inch and a half wide, and the same measurement 
in thickness, and with a teaspoon make a hollow in the 
centre of each boudin about three inches long by half an 
inch deep and one inch wide ; fill these up with a salpicon 
a la financi^re (No. 31c), but mixed with a well -reduced 
Allemande sauce instead of Financi^re sauce, and cover the 
salpicon of each boudin with chicken forcemeat again, so 
as to hide it completely. Then poach them gently in a 
saut6-pan with broth for about fifteen minutes; after 
which, take them out carefully with a flat skimmer, lay 
them on a clean cloth to drain, remove the paper if still 
attached to them, dish up the boudins in a circle, and serve 
with a well-reduced Espagnole sauce poured under them. 

Note, — Boudins of chicken can also be served with 
salpicon k I'ltalienne (No. 307), it la Valenciennes (No. 
316), or with either a pur^e of fresh mushrooms or truffles. 

624w QUENELLES OF CHICKEN A LA TOULOUSE. 

Prepare some chicken forcemeat (No. 271), sprinkle 
some flour on the slab or board, and spread the forcemeat 
on this, to the thickness of about an inch, with the blade 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 311 

of a knife dipped in boiling water ; sprinkle a little flour 
over, and divide the layer in strips four inches long by 
one inch and a half wide; roll these slightly with the 
fingers, so as to give them an oblong shape, then place the 
quenelles in rows in a battered saut^-pan about an inch 
apart ; pour some boiling broth gently oy the side, so as to 
cover them, and simmer for about ten minutes. When 
done remove them carefully with a flat skimmer, and 
drain them on a clean cloth; dbh up the quenelles in 
a circle, fill up the centre with salpicon k la Toulouse 
(No. 311)1 but not chopped so fine, and well-diluted with 
Yelont^ sauce (No. 153), and serve. 

Note, — ^Quenelles of chicken are always made and poached 
in the same way, but can be served m different styles, such 
as k ritalienne (No. 307), k la Boyale (No. 309), k la 
financiire (310), or any other salpicon, provided these 
are properly diluted with their respective sauce, and the 
ingredients are not chopped so fine as for salpicon. These 
are usually known under the name of "Ragout," but in 
order to simplify matters as much as possible, I give them 
under the same heading, being prepared m the same man- 
ner, but, as already mentioned, not minced so fine. 



625. CHICKEN PANCAKES. 

Prepare and keep warm in a stewpan some salpicon k la 
financi^re (No. 310), mixed with a well-reduced Allemande 
or Bechamel sauce instead of financi^re. 

Fry the number of pancakes required (see Pancakes); 
lay on each two tablespoonfuls of the chicken salpicon ; 
turn and roll both sides of the pancake over, so as to 
enclose the mixture ; cut these across in half ; dish them 
up in the form of a pyramid, and serve garnished round 
with fried parsley. 



312 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

626. CAPON A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Boil for fifteen minutes one pound of macaroni^ then 
strain the water through a colander, cut the macaroni in 
three-inch lengths, and put them in a stewpan with an 
ounce and a half of fresh butter and one ounca of grated 
parmesan cheese. Toss up the contents over the fire for a 
few minutes and draw it away. Meanwhile have a nico 
capon properly singed ; clip the claws ; cut off the neck close 
to the back, but leave as much of the crop-skin as possible ; 
draw the entrails, <k&, through an incision made at the 
back of the neck ; then with a strong-bladed knife remove 
the angular part of the breast-bone, without^ however, 
tearing the breast or cutting the fillets; stuff the capon 
with the cooked macaroni ; draw the skin of the crop at 
the back so as to close up the paunch, and with a small 
trussing-needle and twine sew it up, and fasten both ends 
of the twine to the back of the capon ; then truss the 
capon for roasting, dip it in boiling water for two minutes, 
dry it all round, and wrap it up in a well-buttered sheet of 
paper; tie this round with string, and roast it before a 
moderate fire for about fifty minutes, taking care to baste 
it three or four times. When done remove the paper and 
string ; dish up ; pour some rich gravy, properly strained, 
over, and serve. 

627. CAPON A LA PI£M0NTAISE. 

Prepare a capon in a similar manner as the foregoing ; 
roast and peel a pound and a half of nice chesnuts, put 
them in a basin with half a pound of sausage meat ; season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of allspice. 
Moisten with a gill of broth or Madeira wine. Mix the lot 
well together ; fill up the capon with it ; when properly 
stuffed and trussed dip it in boiling water for two minutes ; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 313 

dry, butter, and wrap it up in the same manner as in No. 
627 ; roast it before a moderate but even fire for about fifty 
minutes, and when done dish it up in the same way, and 
serve with some good gravy poured over. 

628. CAPON A LA LUCULLUS. 

Draw, singe, and prepare a capon as previously described 
for capon k la Napolitaine ; then cut in small slices one pound 
of clean calf's liver and half a pound of fat bacon; fry 
these in a stewpan for a few minutes with an ounce of 
butter ; moisten with a gill of Marsala. Season with salt, 
nutmeg, spice, and the peel of a pound of truffles ; simmer 
for seven minut-es ; let it get cold and pound it in a mortar ; 
then add the peeled truffles cut the size of small nuts; 
mix the whole well together and stuff the capon with it ; 
truss it in the usual way ; dip it for two minutes in boiling 
water ; dry, and lay a slice of fat bacon over the breast ; 
wrap up the capon with a sheet of buttered paper, and 
roast it before an even fire for about an hour. Meanwhile 
prepare a risotto k Tltalienne (No. 109). When the capon 
is ready dish it up, place the risotto in tablespoonfuls as 
a garnish round it, and serve with a rich gravy, to which 
a little essence of truffles has been added, in a sauce-boat 
apart. 

Note, — It is advisable, when time permits, to stuff a 
capon two or three days before it is wanted, and keep it 
in a cool place. 

629. CAPON, CITIZEN STYLE. 

Mince fine half a pound of beef kidney fat ; mix it with 
three handfuls of bread-crumbs, three tablespoonfuls of 
fine herbs (No. 195a), the yolks of two eggs properly 
beaten, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste ; stir all 
well together, and with it stuff a capon, previously pre- 



3T4 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pared for that purpose, as in. the foregoing ; truss it in 
the usual way ; dip it in boiling water for two minutes ; 
dry it, and lay a good slice of fat bacon over the breast ; 
wrap it in a well-buttered sheet of paper, and roast it 
before an even fire for about an hour. Meanwhile cook 
separately, in salt water, a few potatoes cut in shape of 
crescents, cauliflower, beans, and peas. When the capon 
is properly cooked take it from the Are, remove the paper 
and string, dish it up and garnish it with the cooked vege- 
tables placed separately around ; pour some good gravy 
under, and serve with Butter sauce in a boat apart. 

680. BOILED CAPON AND RICE. 

This is done in the same manner as boiled chicken and 
rice (see No. 619). 

68L BOILED CAPON AND TARRAGON. 

Prepare and boil a capon in the same style as boiled 
chicken and tarragon, and serve it with boiled pickled 
ox-tohgue apart. 

632. BRAIZED CAPON A LA MILANAISE. 

Singe, draw, and truss a capon as previously described. 
Out one pound of truffles into pieces the size of a broad- 
bean ; after having peeled them pound the trimmings with 
one pound of fat oacon, season with salt, pepper, grated 
nutmeg, a chopped bay-leaf, and thyme ; mix this together 
with the truffles in a stewpan and simmer gently for about 
ten minutes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. 
Moisten with a gill of good gravy and continue stirring 
and simmering for another ten minutes ; let the mixture 
get cold; then stuff the capon with it; fasten the crop- 
skin, and truss the bird as for boiling ; let it remain thus, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 315 

if possible, in a cool place for two days, when the flavour 
of the truffles will have penetrated well into the flesh. 
When wanted, prepare four or Rve dozen ravioli (No. 97). 
Set the capon in a stewpan with enough good broth to 
cover the pinions, simmer very gently for about an hour 
and a quarter, taking care to turn it over after three- 
quarters of an hour's cooking. When properly done remove 
the string ; dish up ; garnish round with the ravioli ; re- 
duce the gravy to a half-glaze by sharp boiling; strain 
it, and serve it in a sauce-boat, with the capon and rivioh'. 
Poulardes are cooked and dressed in every way as 
capons. 

688. BRAIZED DUCK WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Select a young and tender duck, singe, draw, and truss 
it as for roasting ; put it in a stewpan with an onion with 
two cloves stuck in it, one carrot, and a small '^ bouquet 
garni'' Moisten with a pint of good broth, season with 
salt and pepper, and simmer it very gently with the lid on 
for about an hour and a quarter, taking care to turn the 
bird after forty minutes' cooking. Meanwhile prepare a 
garnish of middle-sized peas (No. 286). When the duck 
is well done t-ake it out of the pan, remove the string, dish 
it up with the peas, strain the gravy; skim off all the 
grease, reduce it over a brisk Are if necessary; pour it 
on the duck, and serve. 

634. BRAI2ED DUCK WITH GREEK PEAS. 

Prepare a duck as described ; put it in a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter ; fry for about ten minutes, turning it 
round to ensure an even colouring ; take it out and place 
it on a dish ; then fry to a light-brown colour half a pound 
of streaky bacon free from rind and gristle and cut one 
inch square; sprinkle over these an ounce of flour; oon« 



3i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tinue to fry and stir the contents with a wooden spoon for 
three minutes longer; then moisten with a pint of good 
stock, add an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a '* bouquet 
garni/' salt and pepper to taste ; stir till boiling. Then put 
in the duck, together with a quart of medium-sized green 
peas ; simmer very gently with the pan partly covered for 
about ah hour and a quarter, taking care to turn the duck 
after thirty minutes' simmering. When done remove the 
'' bouquet garni " and onion ; put the bird on a plate, skim 
off very carefully all the grease from the peas ; dish these 
up with the bacon; untie the duck and place it in the 
centre of the dish ; pour the gravy over, and serve. 

685. DUCK WITH TURNIPS. 

After having prepared a duck as above, fry it in a stew- 
pan with an ounce of butter to a nice golden colour all 
round ; then take it out and sprinkle three tablespoonf uls 
of flour in the same stewpan; stir this over the fire for 
about three minutes; moisten it with a pint and a half 
of good broth ; boil it, stirring the while to prevent burn- 
ing; put in the duck, together with a small '' bouquet 
garni," an onion stuck with two cloves, and season with 
salt and pepper, and simmer gently with the pan partly 
covered for about fifty minutes. Meanwhile peel and cut 
a pound of nice tender turnips into fancy sliapes, such as 
half-moons and olives, add these to the duck and continue 
the simmering till they are done ; remove the '^ bouquet 
garni" and onion. Dish up the bird in the usual way; 
garnish round with the turnips; skim off all the grease 
from the sauce, pour it over the duck, and serve. 

636. BRAIZED DUCK WITH STEWED OLIVES. 

Prepare and braize a duck as in No. 635. Meanwhile 
stone a pint of nice French olives; stew these with the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 317 

duck for six or seven minutes; dish up the bird, after 
having removed the string ; garnish round .with the olives ; 
skim off very carefully all the grease from the gravy; 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, pour this over the 
duck, and serve. 

687. BRAIZED DUCK WITH CABBAGE. 

Cut, clean, and blanch in salt water for five minutes a 
nice savoy cabbage. Meanwhile have ready trussed in the 
usual way a good duck, which place in a stewpan with a pint 
and a half of good stock, an onion stuck with three cloves, and 
a carrot ; cover this with the cabbage properly strained ; add 
half a pound of Bologna sausage and the same quantity 
of steaky bacon ; season with salt and pepper ; set to simmer 
very gently, with the pan covered, for about an hour ; after 
which, remove the lid, place the stewpan in the oven for 
fifteen minutes, to finish cooking and brown the cabbage ; 
then take out the bird, remove the string, take the carrot 
and onion away, put the bacon and sausage on a plate, and 
strain the liquor through a colander into a small stewpan ; 
press the cabbage well ; dish it up with the duck and keep 
hot by the side of the oven. Meanwhile skim off the fat 
from the gravy, reduce it to a half-glaze on a brisk fire, 
pour it over the duck and cabbage, cut the sausage and 
bacon into slices, decorate the dish alternately with it, and 
serve. 

638. ROAST DUCK. 

Slice a poimd of onions and mix them with eighteen 
sage-leaves, blanch in salt water for five minutes, then 
drain and chop them fine ; fry them in a stewpan with an 
ounce of butter well seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg for about ten minutes, stirring the while with a 
wooden spoon; then add an ounce of bread-crumbs, and 



3i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

stir the mutare over the fire for two or three minutes 
longer. When cool stuff the duck with it ; truss the duck 
in the usual way ; dip it in boiling water for two minutes ; 
dry, and set it to roast before a brisk fire for twenty 
minutes. When done, untie the string; dish up, pour 
under some rich gravy free from fat, and serveu 

6S9. ROAST GOOSE. 

Having selected a fine fat goose, draw and singe it as 
previously described for capon A la Napolitaine; then 
stuff it with one pound and a half of onions, two dozen 
green sage-leaves, the goose-liver, and two ounces of bread- 
crumbs, the whole prepared in a similar manner to the 
stuffing as for roast duck. When the goose is thus pro- 
perly stuffed truss it in the usual way for roasting, and 
then dip it in boUing water; dry it, and set it before an 
even fire to roast for about an hour and a half, according 
to size, taking care to frequently baste it. When the goose 
is well cooked take it away from the fire, remove the string, 
dish up, pour some rich brown gravy under, and serve with 
Apple sauce (No. i8i) in a sauce-boat apaH. 

640. ROAST GOOSE STUFFED WITH CHESNUTS. 

Prepare a goose as in the previous number ; cut the liver 
into small dice, and chop up fine two onions and fry these 
with about an ounce of chopped fat bacon for seven or eight 
minutes. Meanwhile prepare a garnish of chesnuts (No. 
278) ; add the stuffing to it, season it with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, mix the lot well together, and stuff the goose with 
it ; then tiTiss in the usual way, dip in boiling water, and 
set it to roast before an even fire for about an hour and a 
quarter, taking care to often baste it When the goose is 
ready dish it up as usual, pour some good brown gravy 
under it, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 319 

641. GOOSE A LA NAVAKBAISE. 

Chop fine ono pound of veal cushion, free from skin and 
gristle, half a pound of fat bacon, the goose-liver, an onion, 
a clove of garlic, and a few sprigs of parsley ; fry these in 
a stewpan with an ounce of butter for ten minutes ; season 
with salt, pepper, and allspice ; add four ounces of cooked 
rice ; mix the whole well together and let it cool. Mean- 
while prepare a fat goose as previously described for 
braizing (see Capon Napolitaine), and as soon as the mix- 
ture is set, stuff the goose with it ; truss it afterwards in 
the usual way for boiling ; place it in an oval braize-pan 
with two ounces of butter, two bay-leaves, and a shred 
onion ; fry till the goose is nicely coloured all round, then 
moisten with a quart of ordinary stock or water and a 
gill of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and set it to 
simmer gently, with the pan partly covered, for about an 
hour and a half, taking care to turn the goose over once, 
and baste it often. Add gradually more broth if necessary. 
When the goose is properly braized take it out of the pan 
and keep it hot ; stmn the broth through a gravy- strainer 
into another stewpan containing a thick half-cooked rittotto; 
stir this on the fire and complete its cooking ; then dish it 
up, place the goose in the centre, and serve with a good 
gravy in a sauce-boat apart. 

642. GOOSE A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Prepare a garnish of sauerkraut (No. 297) without bacon 
or sausage. When this has boiled four hours add a goose 
properly singed, drawn, and trussed for boiling, together 
with half a pound of streaky bacon and the same quan- 
tity of Frankfort sausages ; cover the stewpan closely and 
simmer for at least two hours, taking care, however, to 
remove the bacon and sausages when done, which will be 



320 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 

in about forty minutes. Cut the bacon in squares two and 
a quarter inches thick, and cut the sausages in the same 
style ; keep these hot in a little broth till wanted. When 
the goose is cooked remove it from the pan, untie the 
string ; strain and press the sauerkraut in a colander ; dish 
it up; put the goose in the centre; garnish round alter- 
nately with the sausage and bacon, and serve. 

648. STEWED GOOSE WITH TOMATOES. 

Draw, singe, and cut a goose into sixteen parts (see 
stewed chicken with risotto), bone these as much as possible, 
then place them nicely in a large well-buttered saut^pan 
with two ounces of clarified butter, half a pound of chopped 
fat bacon, two chopped onions, and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley ; season with salt and pepper ; fry the lot 
over a brisk fire till the pieces of goose are nicely coloured 
all round, then moisten with a pint and a half of broth 
add six nice ripe tomatoes, previously peeled and cut in 
slices ; simmer till well done ; then dish up the pieces of 
goose in the same style as chicken marengo, pour the 
sauce round, and serve. 

644. BRAIZED TURKEY A L'lTALIENNE. 

For this dish select a fine young turkey weighing about 
eight pounds, trim, singe, and draw it in the same style as 
capon k la Napolitaine; sew up the vent-opening; cut 
off the feet, scald the legs in order to divest them of their 
black skin, and remove the angular breast-bone ; then make 
a risotto k I'ltalienne (No. no) with one quart of rice, for 
which use the giblets of the turkey. When the risotto has 
cooled down a little, stuff the turkey with it^ draw up the 
crop-skin and sew it carefully, as described for capon k la 
Napolitaine. Truss it as for braizing, then place it in an 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 321 

oval braizing- pan with enough stock to cover the pinions ; 
add two onions, each stuck with two cloves, and one head 
of celery; season with salt and pepper; boil, and then 
simmer with the pan partly covered for two hours, taking 
care to often baste the bird, and turn it over after an hour's 
simmering. When done, take out the turkey and put it 
with half a pint of its liquor on a baking-dish in the oven 
for ten minutes to glaza Meanwhile strain a pint of the 
bix)th through a tammy into a small stewpan, reduce it by 
sharply boiling over the fire, and when the turkey has been 
glazed, dish it up with its gravy free from fat, and serve 
with the reduced sauce apart. 

645. BRAIZED TURKEY A LA JARDINIERE. 

Prepare a nice fat turkey as in the foregoing, without 
stuffing ; truss for braizing ; cover with thin slices of fat 
bacon, and wrap in a well-buttered sheet of paper; place 
it in a stewpan with a carrot, one head of celery, tw^o 
onions, each stuck with two cloves, a " bouquet garni," and 
enough stock to cover the paper; season with salt and 
pepper ; boil, and then simmer very gently for two hours 
with the pan partly covered. In the meantime prepare 
separately a garnish a la jardiniere, composed of a quarter 
of a pound of French beans (No. 290), four ounces of cauli- 
flower-head (No. 292), four ounces of asparagus-points 
(No. 287), four ounces of turnips (No. 284), and four 
ounces of carrots (No. 283) turned into small pear-shaped 
pieces. Having cooked them separately, mix the lot well 
together by tossing in a saute-pan, and keep hot. 

When the turkey is properly cooked, remove the string, 

paper, and bacon; dish it up, ^rnish round with the 

vegetables and serve, with Bechamel sauce (No. 154) in a 

sauce-boat apart. The gravy must be strained and put by 

for use. 

X 



322 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

646. BOILED TURKEY WITH CELERY. 

Prepare and draw a nice hen-turkey as in the previous 
number, stufp it with veal or sausage-meat stuffing, and 
truss it for boiling. Put it in an oval braizing-pan with 
enough white stock to cover it ; add a carrot, an onion stuck 
with two cloves, one head of celety, and a ^' bouquet gamL*' 
Boil it, and simmer gently for two hours. Meanwhile 
prepare a garnish of celery (Na 282), and when the turkey 
is properly cooked remove the string, dish it up, garnish 
round with celery, pour the Celery sauce over the turkey, 
and serve. 

647. BOILED TURKEY WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Prepare, stuff and boil a turkey as directed for boiled 
turkey with celery, and when ready dish it up and garnish 
with Oyster sauce (No. 186) before serving. 

648. ROAST TURKEY A LA PIl^ONTAISE. 

Draw and singe a nice young turkey as described for 
turkey k Tltalienne; prepare one pound of either veal 
or sausage-meat, put it in a large basin with two pounds 
of well-roasted and peeled chesnuts ; moisten with half a 
pint of broth ; season well with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
allspice; mix well together, and stufip the turkey with it. 
Sew up the paunch, truss the bird for raasting ; dip it in 
boiling water for two or three minutes ; wipe it dry ; lay 
a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast ; wrap up the bird 
in a well-buttered sheet of paper, tie it with string, and 
set it to roast before a nice even fire for about two hours, 
according to size, taking care to baste it often. When the 
turkey is cooked, dish it up, after having removed the 
paper and string, and serve with good grayj free from 
fat. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 323 

640. ROAST TURKEY A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Prepare a turkey as in the previous number. Boil two 
pounds of macaroni in the usual way for fifteen minutes, 
strain the water through a colander, cut the macaroni 
in three-inch lengths, and put them into a stewpan with 
three ounces of butter, two ounces of grated parmesan 
cheese, two pinches of pepper, and one of nutmeg. Shake 
this up over the fire till the cheese is properly melted and 
mixed, and then with a spoon stuff the turkey with it; 
sew up the breast-skin ; tmss the bird for roasting, dip it 
in boiling water, dry, butter it well all round, wrap it in a 
buttered sheet of paper, tied on with string, and then roast 
it before a good even fire for about two hours, frequently 
basting it. When done, remove the turkey from the fire, 
untie the string and paper, dish up, strain and skim off 
the gravy, pour it over the turkey, and serve. 

650. ROAST TURKEY STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES. 

For this purpose a fine young turkey should be stuffed 
at least two days previous to being cooked, and kept in a 
cool place during that time, for the same reason as already 
stated for braized capon a la Milanaise. Peel two pounds 
of trufiles, cut these into size of broad-beans and put them 
in a large basin, ^K)und the trimmings in a mortar and 
add them to the truffles, together with two pounds of sau- 
sage-meat and half a pound of minced pickled cooked ox- 
tongue. Season with salt, nutmeg, a little pounded mace, 
and thyme ; moisten with a gill of Madeira ; mix well 
together, and stuff the turkey with it. Draw the crop-skin 
to the back and sew it up in the usual way, and truss it 
for roasting. When wanted, dip it in boiling water ; dry 
it, and lay a large thin slice of fat bacon over the breast ; 
wrap it up in a well-buttered sheet of paper; tie it round 



324 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and roast it before a good even firo for two hoars, taking 
care to baste it frequently. Wlien done, take it from the 
fire, remove the paper and string, strain and skim the 
giii\y, dish up the turkey, pour the gravy over, and serve. 



651. TURKEY'S GIBLETS* HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Clean and singe the giblets of a turkey, blanch the lot 
in boiling salt water for three minutes, then cut each — the 
gizzai'd and neck — in four, and the pinions in two ; cut also 
the liver in four, and put it on a plate apart. Fry to a 
light-brown colour, in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, 
about six ounces of streaky bacon, cut in inch- dice, free 
from rind and gristle ; then take these out, and fry the 
giblets for ten or twelve minutes on a brisk fire, taking 
care that the pieces are not laid one over the other. After 
which, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour ; continue the 
frying for about three minutes longer ; stir with a wooden 
spoon ; moisten with a pint and a half of stock or water : 
season with salt and pepper ; add a '' bouquet garni/' and 
boil and simmer for three-quarters of an hour, with the 
pan partly covered. In the meantime peel and cut into 
half moons one pound of turnips, fry these in a stewpan 
to a nice golden colour, with an ounce of butter, and put 
them on a plate ; peel and fry also c ne dozen button 
onions, and add them to the turnips ; then peel two 
pounds of potatoes to an egg-shape. When the giblets 
have simmered three-quarters of an hour, add the bacon, 
turnips, onions, and potatoes, and simmer for twenty 
minutes longer*; then add the liver, previously fried for 
two or three minutes ; boil again gently for another ten 
or twelve minutes, and draw the pan away from the fire, 
remove the '^ bouquet garni," and skim off carefully all the 
grease and scum ; dish up the giblets in the centre ; pour 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 325 

the vegetables and sauce over, sprinkle the lot with a tea- 
Bpoonfal of chopped and blanched parsley, and serve. 



652. STEWED PIGEONS WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Select three nice bouse- pigeons ; pick, draw, and singe 
them as chickens ; return the liver to the inside of the 
birds ; cut off the necks, and truss for braizing (see 
Boiled Chicken with Tarragon). Bemove the rind of half 
a pound of streaky bacon, cut it in inch- dice, fry these to 
a nice brown colour in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 
and take them out ; put in the pigeons in their stead, and 
fry them to a golden colour all round over a brisk fire ; 
then put them aside with the bacon ; sprinkle in the same 
stewpan two tablespoon fuls of flour, and stir this with a 
wooden spoon over the fire for three or four minutes ; 
moisten with one and a half pint of good broth, season 
with salt and pepper, and boil, and stir it to prevent 
burning. Then add the pigeons, together with the bacon, 
a " bouquet garni,'' and a quart of fresh shelled green peas ; 
simmer gently, w^ith the pan partly covered, for about half 
an hour or thirty- five minutes; then remove the string 
from the birds, take the '* bouquet '' out, skim all the 
scum and grease off the peas and bacon, pour these on a 
dish, put the pigeons in the centre, and serve. 

653. STEWED PIGEONS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Prepare, truss, and cook three pigeons as above, but 
instead of green peas substitute two dozen button onions, 
previously blanched and browned in butter, together with 
one pint of nicely turned champignons also blanched in 
their liquor, and the whole added to the sauce with the 
bacon, pigeons, and " bouquet garni." Season thcj mixture 
in the usual way, and simmer gently for thirty -five 



326 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

minuteB; then remove the pigeons, untie the sti-ing, and 
dish them up ; take the " bouquet " out ; skim oft all fat 
and scum ; garnish the pigeons round with the onion.*^ 
mushrooms, and bacon, pour the sauce over, and serva 

664. PIGEON CUTLETS WITH HAC^DOINE. 

Select three young and fat pigeons, cut these lengthwise 
in half, remove the wings and part of the breast-bones, 
tuck the leg-bones inside, season well with salt and pepper, 
and fry the halves or cutlets in a saut^pan on a brisk fire, 
with two ounces of butter, for fifteen minutes. Take them 
out and press them between two dishes till cold ; aft^r which, 
turn each cutlet into a nice form, and dip them in melted 
butter and bread-crumb them ; broil them over a slow fire 
till of a golden colour, and then dish them up in a circle, 
fill the centre with a garnish of macedoine (No. 281), and 
serve. 

66S. PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE. 

Take three nice young pigeons, properly drawn and 
singed, and cut them lengthwise across the breast, with- 
out separating them at the back; flatten them with the 
cutlet-bat and remove the bones from the legs and breasts ; 
put these in a saut4-pan with one and a half ounce of 
butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry them for 
fifteen minutes over a brisk fire ; then put them between 
two-baking tins and press with a four-pound weight at 
the top. In the meantime chop fine two shalots, and fry 
them in the same saucepan for a few minutes ; then add 
half a pint of good stock, half a gill of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley ; season with salt and pepper ; 
boil it, and reduce it by half; then squeeze the juice of 
a lemon in it. When the pigeons are quite cold, dip them 
in half an ounce of melted butter and bread-crumb them ; 
after which, broil them over a clear fire to a nice golden 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 327 

colour on both sides, strain the sauce through a pointed 
strainer over a dish, put the pigeons on it, and serva 

666. ROAST PIGEONS. 

Draw and singe three young pigeons as above and truss 
them for roasting; cover the breast of each bird with a 
thin slice of fat bacon, tie on with string, and set the 
birds to roast before a good fire for fifteen minutes. When 
done take them from the fire and remove the string ; dish 
up the pigeons with the bacon on the breasts; pour the 
gravy under ; garnish round with watercress, previously 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and serve. 

Note, — Wild pigeons should always be roasted. 

657. GUINEA-FOWL, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Pick, draw, singe, and cut in pieces two young guinea- 
fowls as for stewed chicken and risotto; put the pieces 
in a stewpan with three ounces of butter and fry them 
over a brisk fire to a nice brown all over; then moisten 
with a gill of sherry and simmer for ^vq minutes ; add half 
a pint of broth, salt and pepper to taste, and half a pound 
of fresh mushrooms cut in slices; then simmer till the 
pieces of fowl are tender, and sprinkle in a tablespoonful 
of finely chopped parsley and squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon, toss up the whole whilst over the fire, and dish it 
up in the same style as stewed chicken, pour the sauce 
over, and serve. 

658. ROAST GUINEA-FOWL 

Draw, singe, and truss two guinea-fowls for roasting ; cut 
six ounces of fat bacon in small strips of an inch and a half 
long, and lard the breasts with a larding-needle ; wrap each 
fowl in a well- buttered paper, and tie this with string ; then 
set the birds to roast before an even fire for about half an 



328 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

hour, and baste them twice ; remove the paper, and continue 
roasting for eight or ten minutes, or till the strips of bacon 
are nicely coloured, without, however, letting them get too 
brown. When done take them from the fire, remove the 
string, dish them up with their gravy nicely strained and 
skimmed, and garnish with watercress, seasoned as de- 
scribed for roast pigeons, and serva 

Note. — Guinea-fowls are poultry, although very often 
served as a substitute for game, on account of their dark- 
coloured flesh. 

669. ROAST CYGNET. 

Cygnet should only be eaten in September; after that 
month they get tough. 

Clean, draw, and singe a cygnet in the same style as a 
goose. Chop fine two pounds of beef-steak ; season with 
three chopped shalots, two pinches of grated nutmeg, two 
of pepper, and a teaspoonful of salt, and moisten with a 
gill of broth. Stuff the cygnet with this in the usual way 
and truss it for roasting ; lay on the breast two nice slices 
of fat bacon, and wrap it in two sheets of well- buttered 
paper; roast it before a clear fire for about three hours, 
during which time it must be frequently basted. When 
done, serve it with a rich gravy. 

660. ROAST PEA FOWL. 

Pea-fowls are seldom cooked now, though young birds 
when fat and full in the flesh are very good roasted ; but 
they should flrst be larded over the breast and thighs and 
put to marinade for a day in a pint of white wine, some 
aromatic herbs, salt, pepper, cloves, a blade of mace, and a 
slice of gammon ; they should then be roasted in a similar 
manner to cygnet, and served with a sharp or devilled 
sauce mixed with the gravy of roast fowl and garnished 
with seasoned watercress. 



CHAPTER XV. 

REMARKS ON GAME. 

The markets of this country are generally well supplied 
with gatne, and such birds as pheasants, partridges, grouse, 
snipes, and wild -fowl are always plentiful in season. 

Pheasants when young have very small spurs, and the 
tenderness of the flesh is ascertained by pressing the 
pinions. 

Wild-duck, widgeon, teal, and other water-fowl are 
selected in a similar manner. 

Woodcock are also selected by trying the pinions and 
breast 

Partridges and grouse are tested in the same way, but 
their age can be ascertained by carefully examining the 
long feathers of the wing; those round at the tip belong 
to old birds, the pointed ones to young. 

The high flavour and peculiar delicacy of game, when 
hung properly, is superior to that of all other animal food. 
Pheasants cooked within three days of l^eing killed have 
none of their characteristic taste, and will simply eat as 
chicken ; but if hung for twelve or fifteen days in a cool 
place, the pleasant and agreeable aroma so much appreciated 
by epicures is fully imparted to the flesh. To obtain this the 
colour of the lower part of the birds should be of a dark- 
green before cooking. . Should they, however, be found too 
high or even putrefied, do not on that account throw them 

away, as the following recipe (like many others given in 

329 



JJ 



lo PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



this work, but very little known) will remove all unpleasant 
taste and flavour from any game : — 

Wash the birds that may be full of maggots, &a, first in 
vinegar, then soak them in cold milk for half an hour, and 
then let them be wiped and cooked in the usual way, when 
they will eat to perfection. 

66L SALMI OF PHEASANTS. 

Roast two hen-pheasants, and when cold remove the 
legs and cut off the drum-sticks ; then cut the fillets with 
the pinion-bones attached to them, separate the breast 
from the back, trim them both and cut them crosswise 
into halves and put these pieces in a stewpan. Pound in a 
mortar the drum-sticks and trimmings, and mix this purto 
with some Salmis sauce (No. 199), previously prepared; 
stir the contents well together, pour it over the pieces 
of pheasant, and warm it gradually without boiling. When 
ready squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, stir, and dish 
it up as a fricassee of chicken; pour the sauce over, 
garnish round with fried crodtons, and serv& 

Note. — ^A few button mushrooms and slices of truffles, 
previously cooked with the Salmis sauce, will greatly im- 
prove this dish. 

662. PHEASANT, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Draw and truss for braizing two nice pheasantfl, fry 
them on a brisk fire in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, two ounces of fat bacon, a shred union, carrot, and 
half a head of celery, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
bay-leaf. When of a nice golden colour all over, moisten 
with a pint and a half of water, set to simmer for about 
thirty-five minutes, with the pan partly covered, taking 
care to frequently baste them with their own liquor, and 
to turn them over once. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 331 

In the meantime prepare a thick risotto, and when the 
pheasants are properly cooked place them on a hot dish, 
strain and skim off the fat from their liquor and add it to 
the risotto, stir this well together, and when ready dish it 
up, put the pheasants on the top, and serve with some 
good gravy in a sauce-hoat apart. 

668. PHEASANTS A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Select and draw two nice yoimg pheasants; lard the 
breasts in the usual way with small strips of fat bacon ; 
wrap them in well -buttered paper, and set them to roast 
before a moderate fire for twenty-five minutes, taking 
special care to baste them frequently with clarified butter ; 
after which, remove the paper from the birds and roast 
them ten minutes longer ; baste again two or three times, 
and see that the strips of bacon do not colour too much. 
Meanwhile prepare some macaroni Italienne (No. 89), and 
when ready, and the pheasants are properly cooked, pour 
the macaroni over a dish, place the pheasants in the 
centre, and serve with some good gravy in a sauce- boat 
apart. 

Note, — In order to roast game to a nicety, attention and 
experience are required, as it is of the utmost importance 
that birds should be removed from the fire as soon as they 
are done. This is generally found to be the case when a 
certain amount of evaporation is emitted from the bird s 
flesh. 

664. PHEASANTS A LA HILANAISE. 

Pick, draw, and truss two pheasants for boiling, and 
braize them as for pheasants, housewife styla When 
done, put them on a dish and keep hot; add one pint 
of broth to the liquor in which the birds were braized, 
boil this and pass it through a tnmmy, then skim off the 



332 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

fat, and put it in a stewpan with some of the liquor, two 
savoy cabbages each cut in four, the cores taken out, 
and previously blanched for five minutes in boiling salt 
water, And half a pound each of Bologna sausage and 
streaky bacon ; season with salt, pepper, and a " bouquet 
garni ; *' cover with a sheet of buttered paper, to prevent 
the cabbages colouring, simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour with the pan covered; then remove the paper and 
" bouquet ; " squeeze the gravy out of the cabbage bj* 
pressing it in a colander ; cut the sausage and bacon into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick ; cut also the cabbage into 
small squares ; untie the pheasants and dish them up ; 
place alternately cabbage, sausage, and bacon around the 
pheasants, and serve with the remainder of the birds' 
liquor, previously reduced to a half-glaze, in a sauce-boat 
apart, 

665. ROAST PHEASANT STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES. 

Select two young and plump pheasants, and draw then, 
in the same way as a turkey. Peel two pounds of fresh 
trufRes, cut them into small filbert shaped-pieces, and put 
them in a stewpan; pound the trimmings in a mortar, 
with a quarter of a pound of chopped pickled cooked ox- 
tongue and the same quantity of fat bacon ; add this to the 
truffles with one pound of sausage-meat ; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg; set it to simmer for about ten 
minutes; stir frequently; then moisten it with a gill of 
either rum, Madeira, or broth ; mix well together, and let 
it cool. When properly set stuff the pheasants with it; 
sew up the vents and breast- skin ; truss them for roasting ; 
wrap in a sheet of paper and put them by in a small 
box or jar tightly shut, in a cool place for two or three 
days ; or better still, bury them (folded in the paper) a foot 
deep in the ground for the same number of days, when 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 333 

the truffles will have imparted their aroma and flavour, to 
the flesh of the birds. 

Three-quarters of an hour before serving, bring the birds 
out ; remove the paper ; lay on each breast a thin slice of 
fat bacon; tie these round with twine, and set them to 
roa&t before an even fire for thirty-five minutes, frequently 
basting them. When done (see note on Pheasants a la 
Napolitaine) remove the string, dish up the birds with 
good brown gravy, and serve with Bread sauce in a boat 
apart. ' 

Note. — AVJien pheasants are roasted without stuffing, 
sei-ve then with seasoned watercress. 

666. BOUDINS AND QUENELLES OF PHEASANT. 

Follow the same directions as given for boudins of 
chicken a la Bichelieu and quenelles a la Toulouse. 

667. SALMI OF PARTRIDGES. 

Roast for twenty minutes, let cool, and cut up two 
pai-tridges as in salmi of pheasants. Pound the liver 
and trimmings of the birds in the usual way, and add them 
to the Salmis sauce (No. 199)} together with half a pint 
of button champignons or fresh mushi'ooms nicely shi*ed ; 
simmer and stir till the mushrooms are done, then pour 
the sauce over the pieces of paitridge, and warm the con- 
tents of the stewpan, gradually, by the side of the fire, with- 
out boiling; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and then 
dish up the pieces in a pyramidal form, pour the sauce 
over, garnish with croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 

668. STEWED PARTRIDGE WITH CABBAGE. 

After having picked, drawn, singed, and trussed two 
partridges, with the legs tucked in as for boiling, ivy them 



334 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

to a nice colour all round in a sautd-pan with an ounce 
of butter. Cut a good cabbage (savoy preferred) into 
quarters and blanch it for five minutes; then steep it in 
cold water, cut off the cores, press the water out, and put 
it in a stewpan with the partridges nicely imbedded in it ; 
season with a ** bouquet garni," two medium carrots, two 
onions with two cloves stuck in each, salt and pepper to 
taste; moisten with enough broth to cover the cabbage, 
add half a pound of streaky bacon, and cover the whole 
with a buttered sheet of paper ; close the stewpan tightly, 
and set it to simmer for an hour and a half. When done 
tiike out the birds and bacon, and put them in the oven to 
keep hot ; remove the " bouquet garni " and onion ; put the 
carrots apart ; drain and press the cabbage in a colander, 
and lay it on a dish ; untie the partiidges and place them 
on the cabbage; cut the bacon in thin slices and the 
carrots in fancy shape, garnish the dish I'ound alternately 
with them, and serve with some good brown gravy in a 
sauce-boat 

669. BRAIZED PARTRIDGES A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Draw and truss two partridges as in No. 668 ; tie a thin 
slice of fat bacon on each breast; put them in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter, and fry them to a nice golden colour 
all over; then moisten with a gill of essence of truffles 
(No. 1 70), the same quantity of Madeira, and three gills 
of good broth ; season with salt, pepper, and a " bouquet 
garni ;" lay a buttered sheet of paper over the partridges, 
cover the stewpan, and boil and simmer gently for forty- 
five minutes. Meanwhile prepare a Financiere sauce 
(No. 187). When the birds are well braized, dish them 
up on a block of crumb of bread, previously cut six inches 
Jong by four inches wide and three inches thick, fried in 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 335 

butter as croiitonsj pour tbe half of the sauce over the 
partridges, put the remainder in a sauce-boat, and serve. 



670. ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Pi*epare and truss two young partridges as directed for 
roast pheasants (without stuffing); cover each breast 
with a thin slice of fat bacon, and tie these round with 
twine ; then set the birds to roast before a good even fire 
for about twenty minutes; remove the string from the 
birds ; dish them up with a good brown gravy, garnish 
round with seasoned watercress, and serve. 



671. BOUDIKS AND QUENELLES OF PARTRIDGES. 

For the preparation of boudins and quenelles of par- 
tridges, see Boudins and Quenelles of Chicken. 



672. ROAST GROUSE. 

Pick, draw, singe, and truss a bmce of grouse as for 
roasting pheasants ; lay and tie a thin slice of fat bacon 
on the brca^st of each bird, and set them to roast before 
an even fire for twenty minutes. When done, dish the 
birds on a crouton of bread (see Braized Partridges k la 
Perigueux) ; garnish with seasoned watercress, and serve 
with good gravy, Bread sauce, and fried bread-crumbs, in 
sauce-boats. 

678. ROAST BLACK-GAME. 

These should be prepared and trussed in the same 
manner as grouse, roasted for twenty minutes with a slice 
of fat bacon tied on the breast of each bird, and served 
with the same ingredients as in No. 672. 



336 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

674. ROAST SNIPE. 

Pick four snipe entirely, neck and head; draw them, 
but reserve the trail and liver, which chop and fry in a 
Btewpan with a little butter for five minutes, and keep 
hot. Twist the legs so as to bring the feet behind the 
thighs, and run the bill through the thighs and body. 
Put a noose of string round the joints, across the lower 
part of the breast, bring both ends round the head and 
tip of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the snipe 
with thin slices of fat bacon and tie these on with twine. 
Cut, toast, and butter four slices of bread, four inches 
long by two and a half wide, and half an inch thick ; set 
the birds to roast before a clear fire for eighteen minutes ; 
place the buttered toast under to receive the gravy from 
the birds, and baste frequently. When ready, remove the 
string, lay the fried trail and liver on the buttered toast, 
which will now be soaked with gravy, dish up the birds on 
these pieces of toast, and serve with a garnish of seasoned 
watercress and a sauce-boat of good gravy. 

675. SALMI OF SNIPE. 

Draw four snipe, reserving the trail and liver, and 
roast them for eighteen minutes, without running the bill 
through the body. When cooked and cold, cut them in 
two lengthwise ; remove the neck, skin, and feet ; trim the 
halves, and put them in a saut^-pan. Found the trimmings 
and bones in a mortar, and put the pur6e in a stewpan 
with two shalots, a '' bouquet garni,'' two cloves, and half 
a bottle of claret ; boil and reduce it to one-half ; then add 
one and a half pint of Espagnole sauce. Simmer for 
half an hour, skim off the fat as it rises to the surface, 
strain the sauce through a tammy into a small stewpan, 
and reduce it again until it coats the spoon; pour this 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 337 

sauce over the birds to warm without boiling. Meanwhile 
chop the trail, <^c., and fry them with a little butter in a 
small stewpan, seasoned with a little blanched and chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper. When the salmi is properly 
warmed, dish up the pieces, pour the sauce over them ; lay 
the trail mixture on eight crotltons of bread, and with 
these garnish round and serve. 

676. ROAST WOODCOCK. 

These are prepared, trussed, and roasted in the same 
manner, as snipe. They are also very often roasted with- 
out being drawn at all, but should be given two minutes 
longer to cook, and then served with seasoned watercress 
and toast. 

677. ROAST PLOVER. 

Pick, draw, singe, and truss plover for roasting in tho 
same manner as pigeons (see No. 656), and serve them in 
the same style. 

Note, — Various kinds of big-winged game are sometimes 
served surrounded with small birds, such as roast pheasants, 
garnished with larks, quail, &c. ; in that case the phea-sants 
are put in the centre of the dish on pieces of toast. 

678. ROAST QUAIL. 

Pick, draw, and truss the birds required as directed for 
pheasants; lay on each a thin slice of fat bacon, large 
enough to cover it, fold a vine-leaf over each of these and 
tie them round the breast with twine; fasten them to a 
spit, and set them to roast before a clear fire for ten or 
twelve minutes; then remove the string, but leave the 
bacon ; dish them on crodtons fried in butter, garnish with 
seasoned watercress, and serve with gravy apai t. 

Y 



333 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

679. QUAIL A LA JABDINI&RE. 

Tiiiss six quail as for braizing, put them in a Stewpan, 
cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, moisten with a 
gill of Madeira and half a pint of good broth ; add a shred 
carrot, onion, and a " bouquet gamL" Boil them ; cover 
the pan and simmer for eighteen or twenty minutes ; 
and meanwhile prepare a jardiniere as for fillet of beef 
jardiniere (No. 950). When the quail are ready, pour the 
sauce on to a dish, garnish the centre with the birds, pour 
a few spoonfuls of half-glaze over the birds and jardiniere, 
and serve with a sauce-boat of half -glaze apart. 

680. ROAST LARKS. 

Cut as many thin pieces of toasted bread, two inches long 
by one inch and a half wide, as there are larks ; cut also 
in a similar manner twice as many thin slices of fat bacon, 
and lay these on each side of the toast. Take the larks, 
cut off the heads and legs, and draw out the gizzards witli 
the point of a small knife. Then run the larks, side by side 
on a thin skewer, putting a piece of toast with the slices 
of bacon between each bird ; tie both ends of the skewer 
to the spit) and set them to roast before a clear fire for 
eight minutes, taking care to baste them. When done, 
dish them up alternately with the toast and bacon, and 
serve with some good gravy in a sauce-boat apart. 

68L LARKS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Cut off the necks, legs, and pick out the gizzards of 
twelve larks, place them in a saut^-pan previously spread 
with butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry them 
to a nice brown colour over a brisk fire. Then add half a 
pint of good gravy or broth, half a pound of nicely cut 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 339 

fresh mushrooms, set to simmer for ^vc minutes, add the 
juice of a lemon and a little finely chopped parsley, toss 
up the contents, dish up the larks with some fried crodtons, 
pour the mushrooms and sauce over, and serve. 

682. ROAST WHEATEARS. 

These small birds are generally plentiful along the 
south coasts of England, and are in season in August and 
September, when their condition is such as to resemble 
small lumps of butter. They are highly esteemed and con- 
sidered a great delicacy by epicures, and should be pre- 
pared and roasted in the same manner as larks, but I 
strongly recommend to be served with them polenta k la 
Napolitaine. 

688. ROAST WILD-DUCK, WIDGEON, TEAL, AND 

WATER-HEN. 

These wild-fowls are all drawn, trussed, and roasted in 
the same style as roast pheasants, before a clear fire for 
about a quarter of an hour, and then served with quarters 
of lemon, cayenne pepper, and gravy separately. 

684w SALMI OF WILD-DUCK. 

Pick, draw and roast a wild-duck for a quarter of an 
hour, as described in No. 683. When cold, cut it into 
small joints; take off the skin; trim the pieces and put 
them in a stewpan ; put into another stewpan the trim- 
mings and bones with half a pint of claret, four shalots, a 
small "bouquet garni," an onion with three cloves stuck in 
it, two pinches of salt, and a small one of cayenne. Boil 
this down to half its quantity, then add one pint of Espag- 
nole sauce, and reduce it to a nice consistency, after which 
pass it through a tammy over the pieces of wild-duck; 



340 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

waim the salmis without boiling, squeeze the juice of half 
a lemon ; toss up the contents ; dish up the pieces of bird 
in the usual way, pour the sauce oyer, garnish round with 
crotitons fried in butter, and serve. 

685. ¥aDGEON, HOUSEWIFE'S STYLE. 

Roast two widgeon. When done, cut them in small 
joints and put in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of red-currant jelly, half a pint of port, and the juice 
of a lemon ; season with salt and cayenne pepper ; simmer 
with the pan partly covered for seven minutes ; then dish 
up, pour the sauce over, garnish with crodtons cut and 
fried in the usual way, and serve. 

686. SALMI OF WIDGEON OR TEAL. 

Pick, draw, and truss two of these birds for roasting; 
place them in an earthen dish, strew some thinly-sliced 
carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf about them, 
season with salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a gill 
of salad oil; let them thus marinade for twelve hours, 
taking care to frequently turn them over. Twenty 
minutes before serving, nm them upon a skewer, place 
the vegetables, &c., upon their breasts, wrap in two sheets 
of oiled paper fastened on with twine, tie them on the 
spit at both ends, and set to roast before a clear fire for 
fifteen minutes. When cold, cut into small joints in the 
usual way; put the trimmings, and the gravy that has 
run into the pan from the birds, into a stewpan with 
four shalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, thyme, and 
bay-leaf, together with half a pint of claret and some 
mushroom trimmings; season with salt and pepper; boil 
for five minutes; then add half a pint of brown sauce 
or good broth; stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 341 

then draw it by the side of the stove to clear itself ; skim 
it ; boil it again for ten minutes ; then pass it through a 
tammy sieve over the pieces of wild-fowl into a stewpan ; 
set them to wann without boiling. When I'eady, dish up 
in a pyi-amidal form, pour the sauce over, garnish round 
with fried crotitons, and serve. 



687. SALMI OF WATER-HEN. 

Draw, truss and roast before a brisk fire, for a quarter 
of an hour, two water-hens. Cut them in four, pound the 
trimmings and carcases, and put them into a stewpan with 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, an ounce of butter, half a 
pint of claret, salt, pepper, the peel of a lemon, and half a 
pint of good gravy, as well as the gravy dropped from the 
birds into the dish. Simmer the lot for half an hour; 
dish up the pieces of wild fowl in the usual way ; squeeze 
the juice of half a lemon into the sauce, pass this through 
a pointed strainer over the dished fowl, garnish with fried 
croCltons, and serra 



CHAPTER XVL 

HOT AND COLD MEAT PIES — PUDDINGS^ 
GALANTINES AND POTTED GAME. 

688. BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 

Cut two pounds of beefsteak (top side or thick flank) into 

scollops three inches long bj two wide, and flatten these 

slightly with the cutlet bat. Cut also six sheep's kidneys, 

or the half of an ox-kidney, into slices a quarter of an inch 

thick ; season the lot well with salt, pepper, and a little 

pounded aromatic herbs ; chop fine four chalots ; then 

make a layer with the meat and kidney at the bottom of 

an oval earthenware baking dish ; strew over some of the 

chopped shalots and the yolk of an egg boiled hard and 

cut in quarters, then another layer of steak, kidney, shalot, 

and egg ; and so on till the whole of it is used. Fill this 

up with good broth nearly to the level of the meat^ and 

cover the whole with a thin layer of puff paste (No. 

318), previously made for that purpose, taking care first 

to pass a brush dipped in water over the border of the 

dish, and press the paste on this with the thumb. Make 

a vent-hole in the centre, cut the paste round the border, 

roll these trimmings together to the eighth of an inch, and 

cut it with a pastry-cutter into four or five small leaves or 

other fancy shapes, pass the biiish, dipped in water again, 

on one side of these, and lay them fiat around the hole in 

the centi'e ; gather Ihe remainder of the paste, turn it into 

34a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 343 

a rose, and place it loose over the vent ; then with a pastry- 
brush dipped in the yolk of an egg brush the paste slightly 
over, and set it to bake in a moderately-heated oven for an 
hour and three quarters or two hours. When done, remove 
the pastry rose from the vent-hole and pour in through it, 
with the help of a funnel, one or two gills of good hot broth 
or gravy ; replace the rose and serve the pie, or put it by 
to be served cold. 

Note. — Mushroom or truffle trimmings intermixed with 
the steak will greatly improve this pie. 

689. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PIE. 

Proceed to cut and season two pounds of beefsteak as 
in the previous number, and substitute two dozen oysters 
for the kidney, but these should first be blanched and 
bearded and their liquor added to the broth ; then cover 
with puff paste as the foregoing. Bake in the same style, 
and serve. 

690. VEAL AND HAH PIE. 

Cut two pounds of cushion of veal into thin scollops, after 
having been freed from skin and sinew ; flatten these with 
the cutlet bat and lay them flat on the table, and spread on 
each some sausage meat the size of a large walnut. Season 
with salt and pepper and pounded aromatic herbs, lay over 
each scollop a thin slice of either cooked ham, gammon, or 
lean bacon, free from rind and gristle ; twist these round 
with the ham inside, and arrange nicely in an earthen- 
ware baking-dish ; fill up nearly to the level of the meat 
with good stock, cover the dish with a puff paste, in the 
same manner as beefsteak and kidney pie, and set it to 
bake for about two hours. When readv, add some more 
hot broth through the vent-hole, and put by till wanted. 



344 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

691. MUTTON PIE. 

Remove the scrag and spine-bone from a neck of mutton ; 
shoiten the ribs to about three inches ; cut the neck into 
neat cutlets ; pare off the superfluous fat ; put the whole 
of the trimmings into a stewpan with a pint and a half of 
water ; season with salt, and boil for half an hour, taking 
c&ve to skim the broth in the usual way. Meanwhile 
season the cutlets with salt and pepper, place them in a 
circular form in a large pie -dish, and garnish the centre 
with potatoes turned into small egg shapes. When the 
bix>th is ready, strain it and skim off the fat, pour it over 
the potatoes in the pie-dish, strew over them a teaspoonful 
of finely-chopped parsley; cover the pie^dish with puff 
paste, as in beefsteak and kidney pie; set it to bake in 
a moderate oven for an hour and three quartet's ; then add 
a little moi^ broth, and serve. 

Xote, — This pie should be eaten hot. 

692. PIGEON PIE. 

Draw and singe thi*ee young pigeons ; cut off the feet 
and put them by; cut the pigeons in four; season each 
piece with salt and pepper ; cut also one pound of rump- 
steak into small scollops ; beat them with the cutlet bat ; 
season these also with salt and pepper, then with one- 
third make a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish. Place 
six quarters of pigeons over them, intermixed with as many 
halves of yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and the pigeons' livers, 
then a layer of scollops of beef, then the other half of the 
pigeons and eggs; finish with the remainder of the beef 
scollops ; add the necessary quantity of hot broth or good 
stock ; cover the dish with puff paste in the usual way (see 
No. 318); imbed the feet of the pigeons in the top of the 
paste, so as to leave the claws out in a symmetrical form. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 345 

and bake for about an hour and a half. When done, add 
some more broth to the pie, and put it aside till wanted. 

Note, — Mushroom trimmings, finely chopped with a little 
parsley, will improve this pie. 

693. CHICKEN PIE. 

Di-aw, singe, and cut two chickens into small joints; 
trim these nicely and put the backs aside, to be used for 
soup or essence of chicken. Out half a pound of cushion 
of veal into small scollops, flatten these slightly with the 
cutlet bat ; cut also half a pound of lean bacon into thin 
slices ; cover the bottom of a pie-dish alternately with veal 
and bacon ; season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped 
parsley ; lay on these the half of the pieces of chicken with 
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs cut in two and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley ; add another layer 
of veal and bacon ; repeat the seasoning ; lay on these, in a 
similar order, the remainder of the chicken ; season again 
and finish with a few slices of bacon, properly trimmed and 
laid on the top. Moisten two-thirds full with good stock 
and half a gill of mushix)om ketchup ; cover the lot in the 
usual way with puff paste (see No. 3 1 8). Bake in a moder- 
ately-heated oven for about an hour and a half. When 
ready, replenish the gvfivy through the vent-hole, and servo 
either hot or cold. 

694. GIBLET PIE. 

This pie should be made with two sets of either goose or 
turkey giblets. Put the liver apart, blanch the giblets for 
about two minutes in boiling water, immerse them in cold, 
and drain them on a cloth ; then cut them into pieces 
two inches long, and put in a stewpan with a carrot, an 
onion stuck with four cloves, a ''bouquet garni," and 
season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a quart of 



346 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

8tock, and simmer gently for about an hour ; then remove 
the " bouquet garni," carrot, and onion ; strain the gravy 
through a strainer into a small stowpan ; dram the giblets 
upon a cloth; skim off all the fat from the gravy, and 
boil it over a brisk fire for about a quarter of an hour. 
Meanwhile, cover the bottom of a pie-^ish with scollops of 
beefsteak, well flattened with the cutlet bat, and season 
with salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, sweet basil, and 
two chalots. Add the giblets in neat order, together with 
tlie liver, previously set apart ; sprinkle over it some fine 
herbs, and a small pinch of cayenne; moisten with the 
reduced gravy ; cover the lot with puff paste (see No. 318), 
bake it for an hour and a half, and serve. 



696. RABBIT PIE. 

Skin, empty, and clean thoroughly a nice young rabbit, 
and cut it into small joints as for rabbit stewed k la 
Chasseur. Trim these pieces nicely, leaving as little bone 
as possible to them ; put the trimmings into a stewpan with 
the head and neck cut in half ; add a pint and a half of 
good stock, an onion stuck with four cloves, a " bouquet 
garni," a piece of rind of bacon, and any trimmings of veal 
that may be had. Season with salt and pepper ; boil, skim, 
and simmer for half an hour. Meanwhile place the pieces 
of rabbit in a pie-dish, well intermixed with half a pound 
of streaky bacon fi'ee from rind and gristle, previously 
blanched for five minutes and cut into inch-dices. Season 
the lot well with four chopped shalots, parsley, fine herbs, 
and salt and pepper ; when the stock is ready, strain it 
through a cloth over the rabbit. Cover the pie-dish with 
puff paste in the usual way (see No. 318), and bake for an 
hour and a half ; then serve, or put it in a cool place till 
\'~anted. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 347 

696. LARK PIE. 

Pick, singe, clean, and draw two dozen larks as for 
roast larks (No. 680). Cut off the heads, wings, and legs 
and put them aside; cut in small scollops one pound of 
cushion of veal, and half a pound of lean bacon, free from 
rind and giistle ; lay alternately one-third of these slices 
at the bottom of the pie-dish ; put on them twelve larks, 
close together, spread the half of two finely-chopped shalots, 
a little parsley, and thyme. Season with salt and a pinch 
of cayenne; make another layer with one-third of the 
scollops ; put on these the other twelve larks, then another 
layer of ingredients and seasoning, then lay upon the birds 
the remainder of the veal and bacon ; fill up the dish two- 
thirds full with good stock or gravy. Cover the lot with 
puff paste. Bake in a moderately-heated oven for about 
an hour and a half, replenish the gravy in the usual way, 
and put it by till wanted. 

Note, — Two or three fresh mushrooms finely chopped, 
and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut in quai-ters and 
properly spread with the seasoning, will improve this pie. 
Any other small birds can also be made into a similar pie. 

697. PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Pick, draw, and singe three partridges ; cut ofiF the feet 
and wings ; cut the partridges into small joints, cover the 
bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin layers of fat bacon, 
place the pieces of partridges in close order on these; 
season well with salt, pepper, and aromatic herbs ; lay upon 
these six small scollops of fillet of beef, well flattened and 
seasoned, make another layer with slices of fat bacon ; soak 
the whole with game or ordinary broth flivvoured with 
essence of game. Cover the dish with puff paste in the 
usual way (see No. 318). Dig the feet into the top of the 



346 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

stocki and simmer gently for about an hour ; then remove 
the " bouquet garni," carrot, and onion ; strain the gravy 
through a strainer into a small stowpan ; drain the giblets 
upon a cloth; skim off all the fat from the gravy, and 
boil it over a brisk fire for about a quarter of an hour. 
Meanwhile, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with scollops of 
beefsteak, well flattened with the cutlet bat, and season 
with salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, sweet baail, and 
two chalots. Add the giblets in neat order, together with 
the liver, previously set apart ; sprinkle over it some fine 
herbs, and a small pinch of cayenne; moisten with the 
reduced gi*avy ; cover the lot with puff paste (see No. 318), 
bake it for an hour and a half, and serve. 



696. RABBIT PIE. 

Skin, empty, and clean thoroughly a nice young rabbit, 
and cut it into small joints as for rabbit stewed k la 
Chasseur. Trim these pieces nicely, leaving as little bone 
as possible to them ; put the trimmings into a stewpan w^ith 
the head and neck cut in half ; add a pint and a half of 
good stock, an onion stuck with four cloves, a ** bouquet 
garni," a piece of rind of bacon, and any trimmings of veal 
that may be had. Season with salt and pepper ; boil, skim, 
and simmer for half an hour. Meanwhile place the pieces 
of rabbit in a pie-dish, well intermixed with half a pound 
of streaky bacon fi-ee from rind and gristle, previously 
blanched for five minutes and cut into inch-dices. Season 
the lot well with four chopped shalots, parsley, fine herbs, 
and salt and pepper; when the stock is ready, strain it 
through a cloth over the rabbit. Cover the pie-dish with 
puff paste in the usual way (see No. 318), and bake for an 
liour and a half ; then serve, or put it in a cool place till 
v: anted. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 3^7 

696. LARK PIE. 

Picky singe, clean, and draw two dozen larks as for 
roafit larks (No. 680). Cut ofP the heads, wings, and legs 
and put them aside; cut in small scollops one pound of 
cushion of veal, and half a pound of lean bacon, free from 
rind and gristle ; lay alternately one -third of these slices 
at the bottom of the pie-dish ; put on them twelve larks, 
close together, spread the half of two finely-chopped shalots, 
a little parsley, and thyme. Season with salt and a pinch 
of cayenne ; make another layer with one- third of the 
scollops ; put on these the other twelve larks, then another 
layer of ingredients and seasoning, then lay upon the birds 
the remainder of the veal and bacon ; fill up the dish two- 
thirds full with good stock or gravy. Cover the lot with 
puif paste. Bake in a moderately-heated oven for about 
an hour and a half, replenish the gravy in the usual way, 
and put it by till wanted. 

Nuie, — Two or three fresh mushi'ooms finely chopped, 
and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters and 
properly spread with the seasoning, will improve this pie. 
Any other small birds can also be made into a similar pie. 

697. PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Pick, draw, and singe three pai-t ridges ; cut oflF the feet 
and wings ; cut the partridges into small joints, cover the 
bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin layers of fat bacon, 
place the pieces of partridges in close order on these; 
season well with salt, pepper, and aromatic herbs ; lay upon 
these six small scollops of fillet of beef, well flattened and 
seasoned, make another la3''er with slices of fat bacon ; soak 
the whole with game or ordinary broth flavoured with 
essence of game. Cover the dish with puff paste in the 
u.sual way (see No. 318). Dig the feet into the top of the 



348 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

paste in decorative style'; bake it in a modeititely-heiited 
oven for one hour and a half, add a little more hot broth 
through the vent-hole, and serve. 

Note. — Blackgame, pheasants, grouse, quail, or any other 
winged game can be made into a similar pia 

698. SNIPE PIEL 

Pick and singe three snipe as previously described. Cut 
off the heads, wings, and legs ; cut the birds into fours ; 
remove the gizzards, but leave the trail; then cover the 
lining of a pie-dish with thin slices of fat bacon ; place the 
pieces of snipe in close layers on these slices ; season well 
with aromatic herbs, salt, and pepper ; squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon, pour a sufficient quantity of melted clarified 
butter into the dish to cover the birds, and put another 
layer of fat bacon on the top. Cover the dish with pu£f 
paste (see No. 318). Bury the feet of the birds on the top 
of the paste in a symmetrical form. Bake the pie in a 
modei-ately-heated oven for one hour and a half, and keep 
it in a cool place till wanted. 

Note, — ^Woodcock, widgeon, and teal can be made into a 
similar pie. 

699. GAME PIE IN MOULD. 

For pies in moulds a short paste (No. 790) is substituted 
for puff paste, and this should be made first. Skin and 
draw a hare ; save the blood, remove the two fillets from 
each side of the spine, and cut these into strips half an inch 
thick and put them aside on a plate ; bone the remainder 
of the hare ; put the bones, head, and neck into a stewpan, 
after having split the two latter in halves; pare off one 
pound of cushion of veal from skin, gristle, and sinew ; put 
the trimmings in the stewpan with the bones of hare; 
remove also the rind of one pound of fat bacon ; put this 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 349 

aside, add the rind to the stewpan, together with a boned 
ealfs foot cut in pieces, a "bouquet garni," one onion with 
four cloves stuck in it, and moisten with three pints of 
stock ; season with salt and pepper ; boil ; skim the broth 
in the usual way and simmer for about an hour, meanwhile 
chop up the pieces of boned hare, veal, and half the 
quantity of the fat bacon, previously freed from rind ; pass 
them through the sausage machine, taking care to add the 
blood of the hare whilst grinding the meat^ When done 
lay the forcemeat on a dish and season it well with allspice ; 
and cut the remainder of the fat bacon into strips the 
same size as the fillets of hare. Take an eight-inch oval 
pie-mould, butter the inside, and line it at the bottom 
and round the sides, half an inch above the top of the 
mould, with shoit paste, previously made for that purpose 
and rolled to an even thickness about the third of an inch ; 
lay some of the forcemeat at the bottom of the mould, 
then three or four strips each of bacon and fillet of hare, 
nicely intermixed and laid lengthwise, then another layer of 
forcemeat and strips, and finish with a layer of forcemeat. 
When the broth has boiled its proper time, and is well 
reduced, strain it through a cloth and pour about three 
quarters of a pint of it into the pie, making at the same 
time a few holes in the forcemeat with a trussing needle ; 
lay a bay-leaf on the top ; cover the pie with short paste, 
having previously moistened the border of the mould with 
water, then press the two together between the thumb 
and finger to form the edge. Cut the superfiuous paste 
even with the mould, and pinch round again ; roll out the 
remaining paste, cut it of the same shape as the top of the 
pie, to make a second cover ; moisten the first with a brush 
dipped in water, and lay this second cover over it ; brush 
over the top with the yolk of a beaten egg, then with a 
pointed knife cut a round hole half an inch wide in the 



350 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

centre, and cover it with a loose piece of paste. Set it in 
a well* heated oven to bake for about two hours and a half, 
but should the oven be too fierce, cover the pie with a sheet 
of buttered paper to prevent the crust getting too brown. 

Note. — A pound or two of truffles cut in quarters and 
properly mixed with the forcemeat will greatly improve 
the flavour of this pie. The flesh of a boned rabbit can 
also be substituted for veal, and any kind of boned winge<l 
game can likewise be added to the pie. 



700. PORK PIE IN MOULD. 

Make about two pounds of short paste (No. 790), roll it 
up, and put aside till wanted. Cut two pounds of griskin 
of pork in slices, season these with chopped onion, sage, 
thyme, salt and pepper, and put them on a dish ; cut also 
two pounds of streaky bacon, free from rind and gristle 
(previously boiled for ten minutes) in slices, and put them 
with the pork ; to these add three pounds of good applet, 
which, when peeled and the cores taken out, must be cut 
in thick slices and put on a plate ; take a tin mould, about 
three inches deep, butter it and line the inside with the 
short paste, previously made and rolled out to an even 
thickness about the third of an inch ; arrange the bacon, 
apples, and pork in this, in alternate layers, till the whole 
is used up. Moisten the border round the moidd with 
water ; cover the pie with the remaining paste'; press the 
two borders together round the edges with the thumb and 
finger, trim it, and make a small round hole in the centre, 
cover it with a piece of loose paste ; egg the top of the pie 
with a brush, and set it to bake in a moderately>heated oven 
for two hours and a half, and serve hot. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 351 

701. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PUDDING. 

Chop fine half a pound of beef suet, and mix it with a 
pound of sifted flour on the slab; gather this together witii 
the hands, make a hole in the centre to receive a teaspoonf ul 
of salt and about a gill of water. Mix and work this well 
together to a stiffish paste, using a little more water if 
necessary, and a little more flour to dry it, then with it line 
a pudding basin previously buttered, keeping enough paste 
apart to cover it. Fill the basin with beefsteak and oysters 
similarly prepared as in No. 689, but with only half the 
quantity of broth. When the pudding is filled, wet the 
edges of the paste round the top of the basin with a past« • 
brush dipped in water, and cover with the remaining suet 
paste rolled out to the size of the top of the basin ; press this 
down all round the edge with the thumb, and twist the 
edges of the paste over so as to give it a corded appear- 
ance ; tie the basin in a pudding-cloth, and boil in enough 
water for about two hours and a half, taking care that 
the water always covers the pudding; then take it out, 
untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on a dish, lift tlie 
basin carefully without breaking the paste, pour some good 
gravy under, and serva 

702. BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Proceed with the paste as in the previous number, fill 
the pudding basin with scollops of beefsteak and kidneys 
properly seasoned as for No. 688; moisten with a gill 
of broth; cover the basin as in the foregoing, then boil 
for two hours and a half, taking care that the water always 
covers the ba.sin, and serve. 

708. MUTTON PUDDING. 

line a basin with paste, made as for beefsteak and 
oyster pudding Prepare some mutton as for mutton 



352 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pie (No. 691), or if preferred, cut part of a leg of mutton into 
thick 8oollops; season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
shalots, and thyme ; make a layer of meat and one of sliced 
potatoes ; moisten with a little mutton broth if possible ; 
cover the basin as before, tie in a pudding-cloth, and let 
boil, with enough water to cover the basin, for two hours 
and a half or three hours ; then turn the pudding oyer a 
dish, pour some good gravy under, and serva 

704. SMALL BIRD PUDDING. 

Any kind of small birds, such as larks, sparrows, wheatears, 
&c., &c.f can be used for this pudding. Pick three dozen 
birds, clean, cut off the heads and feet and draw the 
gizzards ; cut also half a pound of streaky bacon in small 
dice, free from lind. Line a pudding basin, previously 
buttered, with paste made as for beefsteak and oyster 
pudding ; put in it a layer of birds and bacon alternately ; 
season with pepper, chopped parsley, shalots, a little grat«d 
nutmeg, and salt ; make another layer of birds, bacon, and 
seasoning till all are used; moisten with a gill of good 
broth, cover the basin with paste as preyiously described, 
tie it round with a pudding cloth, and boil two hours and 
a half ; when ready remove the cloth, turn the basin over 
a dish, remove it carefully without breaking the paste, and 
serve with some good gravy poured under. 

705. GALANTINE OF VEAL AND HAM. 

Procure a breast of nice white veal ; bone it, and remove 
all superfluous fat and skin ; lay it flat on the table, inside 
upwards. Make nine small incisions across this, without, 
however, cutting through the flesh ; make three poimds of 
sausage meat, spread this on a dish ; cut into small dice 
one pound each of cooked ham and ox-tongue, and half a 
pound of fat bacon; put these into the sausage meat. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 353 

Skin two ounces of pistacliio kernels, after having been 
scalded, and add them to the sausage meat. Season with 
salt, pepper, and allspice. Mix the lot well together with 
the hands, then spread this forcemeat on the veal and 
roll it tight; butter a pudding-cloth, place the veal on 
it, and roll up again very tight ; fasten at each end with 
string, thus giving it the appearance of a cushion ; put it 
in an oval stewpan, with the bones chopped up and the 
trimmings of veal, two calf's feet in halves, one carrot, 
one onion with four cloves stuck in it, and a '* bouquet 
garni ; " season with salt, two dozen peppercorns, and two 
blades of mace. Cover the galantine well with water, boil 
it, and simmer very gently for about three hours ; then 
draw the stewpan away from the fire, and let the galantine 
partially cool in its liquor for three quarters of an hour ; 
after which drain and remove the cloth, wash this clean 
in hot water, and tie up the galantine again as before, and 
put it on a baking-sheet to be pressed, with a piece of 
board or dish and a seven-pound weight on the top, for at 
least a couple of hours. Meanwhile strain the bi*oth, 
skim ofiE all the grease, reduce by a sliarp boiling, clarify 
most carefully, and pass through a jelly-bag or fine cloth 
into a pan, and put it in a cool place to set firm into 
aspic jelly. When the galantine has been properly pressed, 
take it out of the cloth, put in front of the open oven 
for two minutes to melt the fat, which must be wiped off 
with a clean dry cloth ; then glaze the galantine as previ- 
ously described for glazing ox-tongues. Put it on a cold 
dish, garnish round with the aspic jelly, cut in fancy shape 
a few sprigs of dried parsley, and serve. 

706. GALANTINE OF CHICKEN. 

Pick, singe, draw, and bone completely a fine and large 
Sun-ey chicken, draw inside the skin from the legs and 



354 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pinioDS, and spread the chicken out on the table ; cut of? 
part of the fillets to cover the thinner parts of the skin ; 
season with salt, pepper, and allspice. Chop up fine one 
pound each of lean veal and fat bacon, both free from 
skin and gristla Season with nutmeg, salt, pepper, and 
aromatic herbs, and pound it in a mortar with the yolks 
of two eggs and the peel of a pound and a half of trufi9es, 
and put it in a basin. Cut in half-inch dice half a pound 
each of cooked ox-tongue and fat bacon, add these to the 
forcemeat, together with the truffles, previously peeled, 
also cut in dice. Mix tbe lot well together with the 
hands ; then spread it on the chicken ; twist this round, 
sew it up with a trussing-needle and twine, and roll it 
tight in a well-buttered cloth, which must be fastened at 
each end with string, in a similar way as galantine of 
veal and ham ; then place it in an oval stewpan, with 
the bones of the chicken and trimmings of veal, &c., as 
well as two calf's feet cut in two, one carrot, one onion 
stuck with four cloves, a " bouquet garni," two blades of 
mace, and twelve peppercorns. Moisten with a gill of 
brandy and enough white stock to cover the galantine; 
boil and simmer gently for two hours, and then proceed in 
eveiy respect as for galantine of veal and ham. 

Note, — Galantines of turkey and pheasant are made in 
the same way. 

707. POTTED HARE. 

Procure an eaiihenware pan, 'with cover, of about seven 
inches in diameter. Skin, empty, and bone entirely a nice 
hare ; reserve the blood to mix with the forcemeat. Chop 
up two pounds of streaky bacon with half of the flesh from 
the legs and shoulders of the hare, all free from sinew, 
gristle and rind, season well with allspice, pound it in a 
mortar, adding the blood whilst pounding. Lard the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 355 

fillets of the hare with small strips of bacon, cut these 
fillets across ; season with allspice, and fry them with the 
remaining pai't of the hare in a saute -pan with an ounce 
of butter for about ten minutes in order to dry the 
moisture contained in the hare ; then put a layer of the 
forcemeat one inch thick in the earthenware pan ; lay on 
this one half of the hare's flesh, another layer of forcemeat, 
the other half of the hare, and the remaining forcemeat ; 
cover with thin slices of fat bacon, put the cover on the 
pan, and place it in a large stewpan with three inches of 
boiling water, cook in a hot oven for three hours, and 
when cold, cover the potted meat with melted fat or 
clarified butter and put by in a cool place, when it will 
keep fresh for months. 

Note, — Pheasants, partridges, larks, and rabbits can lie 
potted in the same way. 



CHAPTER XVIL 

REMARKS ON VEGETABLES. 

England is not so rich in vegetables as she is in other 
products and necessaries of life, as there are several kinds 
quite unknown in this country which are highly esteemed 
abroad, such as cardoons, goat's-beard or viper's grass, 
blite, mad-apple, <&c. ; whilst sorrel and artichokes are but 
slightly cultivated. Potatoes, as a matter of course, hold 
the leading position amongst vegetables. What could we 
do without potatoes ? They were, however, quite unknown 
in Europe three centuries ago, having been impoi*ted from 
South America (according to some authorities) in 1586 by 
Sir Francis Drake; but their general introduction dates 
only from 1592. Thei-e is no vegetable — in fact, eggs and 
rice excepted, there is nothing in the world that can be 
cooked and dressed in so many different ways as potatoes. 
Some two hundred styles, I believe, have been attained. 
This reminds me of a dinner I provided at the St. James' 
Hall in 1876 to some forty Irish members of Parliament, 
which I hope may not be out of place if related here. 

In taking the order from Major O'Gorman (whom I 
had the pleasure of knowing well), I had strongly im- 
pressed upon me the necessity of having plenty of potatoes 
for that dinner, as they were all Irish gentlemen, and very 
fond of them. I promised to comply with his wishes, and 
on the day and time appointed the dinner was duly sei*ved 

with ten different styles of cooked potatoes. These were 

356 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 357 

passed round in the usual way, with the entrees, when 
Major O'Gorman^ who was in the chair (a good strong one, 
as he weighed about twenty stone), summoned me to his 
presence and complained in very strong terms that no 
potatoes could be had. *' Major I " said I, " there must be 
some mistake, as you all seem pretty well supplied with 
them; you have actually three sorts on your plate, and 
to all appearance are enjoying them ! " The poor Major 
was quite amazed to see that they were all partaking of 
potatoes without knowing it. Recovering, however, from 
his surprise, he at once ordered plenty of boiled potatoes, 
but that did not prevent his being chaffed about his mis- 
take for a long time afterwards. 

708. BOILED POTATOES. 

Potatoes are boiled either with the skin on or off. The 
former is the best. Wash off the dirt by scrubbing with 
a hard brush, and rinse them well; put into a sauce- 
pan with enough cold water to cover them, and a teaspoon- 
f ul of salt for every quart of water ; boil till the potatoes 
are nearly done, which can be ascertained by inserting a 
trussing-needle into one or two of them ; then drain off 
the water, cover the stewpan, and place it by the side of 
the fire for about five minutes, when the steam and moisture 
will evaporate and the potatoes get floury; then peel as 
quickly as possible, and serve. 

Note. — Potatoes will generally require boiling for a quarter 
of an hour, but in some instances a longer time is necessary. 
In all cases they should be served as soon as cooked. 

709. POTATO PUR^E. 

See No. 231. 



358 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



7ia POTATOES A LA MAttRE 

Boil two pounds of potatoes gently so as not to break 
them, then peel and cat them in sUoes, a quarter of an inch 
thick ; pat these in a stewpan with half a pound of mattre 
d'hotel butter (No. 226), half a pint of white broth, and a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Mix the lot well by 
tossing the pan over the fire; squeeze over them the jaioe 
of a lemon, and serve. 

71L POTATOES WITH CREAM. 

Boil, peel, and cut in slices two pounds of potatoes as in 
No. 710; put them in a stewpan with one pint of cream 
or milk, simmer for ten minutes ; then add one ounce of 
butter if cream, but if milk two oimces, divided in seven 
or eight pieces ; add a pinch of salt and a little nutmeg ; 
toss till the butter is well melted, and serve. 

712. POTATOES SAUT^ES. 

These are prepared either with raw or cooked potatoes ; 
the latter style is the most in use. Any cold boiled 
potatoes left from the previous day are cut in slices and 
browned to a nice golden colour with fresh butter, either 
in a saute or frying-pan ; season with salt, pepper, and a 
little chopped parsley, and serva 

718. POTATOES SAUT^ES A LA LTONNAISE. 

Cut some potatoes in slices as above, say two pounds; 
melt three ounces of fresh butter in a clean frying-pan, 
in which fry three finely sliced onions to a brown colour ; 
then add the potatoes and toss them now and then, till 
they are of a nice brown; season with salt, pepper and 
half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 359 

little good gvavy if handy, mix well together, and servo 
very hot. 

714w POTATOES SAUT^ES A L'lTALIENNE. 

Peel and cut in oval slices, the thickness of a crown 
piece, two pounds of nice raw Regent potatoes; fry 
these gently on a moderate fire in a sautd-pan with three 
ounces of clarified butter to a nice golden colour, then 
drain the butter into a saucepan containing half a pint 
of hot tomato sauce. Glaze the potatoes with half a pint 
of good gravy, and dress them in pyramid form on a dish ; 
squeeze the juice of a lemon in the tomato sauce, pour it 
over the potatoes, and serve. 

715. POTATOES A LA BECHAMEL. 

Peel, cut, fry, and glaze two pounds of potatoes as in 
No. 714 ; then cover them, when dished up, with half a pint 
of good Bechamel sauce, and serva 

716. POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Prepare two pounds of potatoes as in No. 715, mnsk 
them in the same way with Bechamel sauce, sprinkle over 
them two ounces of grated cheese and a tablespoonful of 
raspings, then add an ounce of fresh butter divided into 
five parts, with a pinch of grated nutmeg ; place the dish 
in a moderately-heated oven till it has attained a golden 
colour, and serve. 

717. POTATOES A LA SAVOISIENNE. 

Boil two pounds of potatoes for fifteen minutes ; peel and 
cut them into thin slices ; make a layer with these in a 
deep gratin-dish ; sprinkle on it a tablespoonful of grated 



36o PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cheese, a few pieces of butter, and a gill of good gi'avy. 
Repeat the layer of potatoes and so on; then cover the 
whole with a quart of cream reduced to half, by boiling; 
season with a pinch of powdered cinnamon ; place the dish 
in the oven to bake, and when of a nice brown all over, 
serve. 

718. POTATOES A LA PROVENgALE. 

Boil in their skins two pounds of potatoes for fifteen 
minutea Meanwhile chop fine an onion, a clove of garlic, 
a few sprigs of parsley, and a few fresh mushrooms. Fry 
these in a saut(5-pan with a gill of salad-oil and an ounce 
of butter to a nice brown colour. When the potatoes are 
properly cooked, peel and cut them in thin slices; add three 
boned and chopped anchovies to the stewpan ; stir the con- 
tents, then add the potatoes; toss them well together, 
simmer for eight or ten minutes, and squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon before serving. 

719. POTATOES k LA BEAUFORT. 

Select two pounds of nice even round potatoes; peel 
them, and with a round vegetable-scoop make a hole the 
size of a cork, two-thirds deep, in the centre of each. Fill 
these up with either cooked veal or beef nicely chopped, 
and properly seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; add a piece of butter as big as a Windsor bean on 
the top of each ; place the potatoes with the meat up side 
by side on a baking-sheet; moisten with good gravy or broth. 
Cover the potatoes with a buttered sheet of paper, and set 
them to bake in a moderately heated oven till cooked, 
taking care to baste them two or three times during that 
time. When done, serve with the remainder of the gravy 
in a sauce-boat apart. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 361 

720. POTATO CROQUETS. 

Boil two pounds of peeled potatoes in the usual way (see 
No. 708). When cooked, rub them through a wire sieve 
into (\ stewpan ; add one ounce of butter and the yolks of 
two eggs properly beaten. Work this well together with a 
wooden spoon ; then sprinkle a paste-board with flour ; 
divide the pur^e in equal parts, roll these on the board to 
the shape of corks, dip them in egg, bread-crumb, and fry 
them in hot fat to a golden colour, and ser\'e. 

721. POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE. 

Prepai'e some mashed potatoes as in the previous number. 

Sprinkle a paste-board with flour ; sliape the pur<Se on it 

. in oval cakes two inches long by one and a half wide and 

one inch thick; then fry them in clarified butter; drain 

them on a cloth, and serve. 

722. FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel one pound of potatoes, cut these in half-inch slices 
and then in quarter-inch strips; dry them in a cloth 
and fry in boiling fat over a brisk fire for about twelve 
minutes, giving an occasional stir with the frying-basket 
to' secure an even cooking and prevent them adhering to 
one another. When of a nice golden colour, drain them on 
a clean cloth by twisting and shaking them over; then 
sprinkle with salt, dish up, and serve. 

723. CHIPPED POTATOES, FRIED. 

After having peeled one pound of potatoes, cut.them in 
very thin slices, say the sixteenth of an inch, and dry in 
a cloth ; then fry them in hot fat oyer a brisk fire for 
aboiit ten minutes, taking care to stir occasionally with the 



3()2 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

frying-bafiket, to secure an even colouring ; drain on a cloth, 
sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

724. FRIED POTATOES, PAILLE. 

Peel and slice one pound of potatoes as a)x)ve, then cut 
these in shreds the size of straws, dry, and fry in hot fat 
for about seven minutes. When of a nice golden colour, 
drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

Note. — ^This style is generally served with roast gama 

725. FRIED POTATOES SOUFFL^ES. 

Peel one and a half pound of kidney potatoes to the 
shape of an egg^ and slice them lengthwise to an eighth of 
an inch thick, taking care to have all of the same size; 
dry in the usual way and fi-y in hot fat for six minutes ; 
then gather them in the frying- basket, and drain and 
cool by the side of the stove ; keep the fat on the fire 
to increase the temperature by a few degrees, and when 
the potatoes are quite cold, throw them in the fat again 
for five minutes to complete the cooking, when the reaction 
of the heat will cause them to swell like eggs. This being 
attained, drain them quickly over a clean cloth, sprinkle 
with salt, and serve at once. 

726. POTATO SOUFFLI 

Wash and bake in their skins a pound of potatoes : this 
will take about three-quarters of an hour if the oven is 
well heated. When soft, squeeze them over a wire sieve 
and rub through with a wooden spoon into a large 
basin. Put into a stewpan a gill of milk with an ounce of 
butter; bring this to boil, giving it an occasional stir; 
season slightly with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg; then draw the pan awny from the ^ve^ add its 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 363 

contents gradually to thiB yolks of four eggs properly beaten, 
stirring the while. When the liaison is made, mix it well 
with the mashed potatoes; whisk the whites of the four 
eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the mashed potatoes, and stir 
it into the mixture. Pour the whole into a well buttered 
souffld or pie dish ; set it to bake in a well-heated oven for 
about twelve minutes, when it will have risen and become 
of a golden colour, then serve. 

727. NEW POTATOES WITH BUTTER, 

Wash and scrape two pounds of small new potatoes (as 
much as possible of the same size). Put them in a stewpan 
with a tea^poonful of salt and enough cold water to cover 
them. Set them to boil two minutes only ; then drain off 
the water and dry them on a cloth. Melt three ounces 
of fresh butt«r in a saute- pan, add the potatoes, and simmer 
on a good fire for about twenty minutes, taking care to 
often toss them, in order to give them an even colour all 
round. W^hen properly done, sprinkle some salt and a tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, dish up, and servo. 

728. PLAIN BOILED CABBAGE. 

Trim off the outer leaves of a cabbage, divide it in four, 
soak these in cold water for an hour with a handful of salt ; 
when well washed, drain and squeeze the water out of them, 
cut off the stalks, and throw the cabbage into boiling water 
with a tablespoonful of salt. When properly cooked, pour 
them into a colander, drain the water out by pressing the 
cabbage with a small plate, and serve. 

729. CABBAGE, COUNTRY STYLE. 

Trim off, divide, clean, and blanch for five minutes a 
cabbage as described in No. 728; then squeeze the water 



364 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

out and put the cabbage in a stewpan. Moisten with good 
broth, season with salt and pepper, then cover with a layer 
of bacon cut in thin slices and a buttered sheet of paper on 
the top. Boil with the stewpan covered for twenty minutes, 
then stand in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

780. STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Pick out all the nice leaves of a big savoy cabbage; 
wash these well and blanch them in boiling salt water for 
five minutes, then drain and wipe them dry, lay them flat 
on the table in the form of a ten- inch square. Chop up in 
small dice one pound of cooked veal and a quarter of a 
pound of cooked ham, and mince very fine a clove of garlic ; 
then mix these with half a pound of plain boiled rice, 
season with salt and pepper, and put the mixture in the 
centre of the cabbage-leaves; fold these up and tie them 
well all round with string. Boil in the stock-pot for 
twenty minutes, then put it on a baking-dish, moisten with 
a little gravy, and set it in a hot oven for ten minutes. 
When nicely browned remove the string and serve >vith 
some gmvy in a sauce-boat. 

731. BOILED CAULIFLOWER. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Pare off the coai*se outer leaves of two medium cauli- 
flowers, cut the stalks and pare away the tough skin round 
it, throw these in a basin of cold water, adding half a gill 
of vinegar, in order to draw out any caterpillar or insect 
that may be in them, then plunge them in boiling water 
with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for twelve or fifteen 
minutes according to size. When the cauliflowers ai*e 
done, which can be ascertained by pressing a small piece 
between the fingers ; if this should give way easily to the 
prcssui*e, although still retaining a certain firmness, they 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 365 

must be taken off from the fire, carefully removed with a 
slice and drained on a sieve, then dished up and served 
with Butter sauce (No. 157). 

782. FRIED CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim, wash, and boil two cauliflowei-s as in No. 731, 
then drain and cut them into pieces. Melt two ounces of 
fresh butter in a fiying-pan, add the pieces of cauliflower, 
season with salt and pepper, and fry to a nice brown all 
round, taking care to toss them, in order to prevent burn- 
ing ; then dish up, and serve. 

7S8. FRIED CAULIFLOWER WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Prepare and fry the cauliflowers as above; when of a 
nice brown, sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan 
cheese, toss and dish up the cauliflower; warm a gill of 
good gravy in the same frying-pan, poiu* it over the cauli- 
flower, and serve. 

734. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Boil two cauliflowers as in No. 731. Meanwhile put 
one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a stewpan, 
stir over the fire for three minutes, then add one pint of 
water or white stock; season with salt and pepper; boil 
for ten minutes, stirring the while, then draw by the side 
of the fire. When the cauliflowers are done and drained, 
cut them in pieces. Grate one ounce and a half each of 
parmesan and Gruy^re cheese and mix it well together; 
put a layer of cauliflower at the bottom of a gratin-dish, 
then a layer with one-third of the grated cheese and a layer 
of sauce; pile up the remaining cauliflower on the top; 
cover with another third of cheese and the sauce, sprinkle 
the third part of the cheese over the sauce, and add a 



360 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

tablespoonful of raspings. Baste with an ounoe of melted 
fresh butter, and set the dish to bake in a hot oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile put the salamander 
in the fire to be made red hot, pass this oVer the top of the 
cauliflower to give a light brown colour, and serve. 



785. CAUUFLOWER A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare and boil two nice cauliflowers as previously de- 
scribed, fry in butter ; dish them up and pour half a pint 
of Genoise sauce over them (No. 207), to which four boned 
and chopped anchovies have been added, and serve. 

786. CAULIFLOWER A LA BECHAMEL. 

Trim, wash, boil, and fry in butter two cauliflowers 
as above; dish them up and pour over some Bdchamel 
sauce (No. 154), and serve. 

787. BOILED BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Select one pound of light-green and hard Brussels 
sprouts, cut the stalks and pare off the outside leaves; 
wash, drain, and throw them in three quarts of boiling 
water with a teaspoonful of salt. Boil fast for a quarter 
of an hour, drain them on a clean cloth, and serve. 

788. BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH BUTTER. 

Pick and boil a pound of nice Brussels spi*out8 as in the 
foi-egoing ; drain and fry them in a frying-pan with half an 
ounce of butter for five minutes, taking cai*e to toss them 
to prevent burning. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg, toss up, and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 367 

739, TURNIPS WITH GRAVY. 

Select six tender and medium-sized turnips, peel and 
wash them well, then blanch in boiling water with a tea- 
spoonful of salt for five minutes ; drain, and cut into 
four. Melt one ounce of fresh butter in a saut6-pan, add 
the pieces of turnips, frj them to a nice light brown, 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with a pint 
of good stock or gravy, sprinkle in a teaspoonful of 
jiowdered sugar, cover the pan and simmer for about 
twenty minutes. When done, which can be ascertained by 
trying them with a trussing-needle, dish them up, pour the 
gravy over, and serve. 

740. TURNIPS A LA SAVOISIENNE. 

Choofie, peel, and blanch six nice tender turnips for five 
minutes ; then drain and let them get cold ; after which cut 
them in slices the eighth of an inch thick and fry with an 
oimce of fresh butter to a nice golden colour, taking care 
to season them with salt and grated nutmeg. Put a layer 
of these at the bottom of a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle 
on them a tablespoonful of grated cheese with a similar 
quantity of gravy or good stock, then another layer of 
turnips, and so on, finishing with grated cheese and rasp- 
ings mixed with an ounce of melted butter. Bake this in 
a hot oven to a nice brown colour, then add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of gravy over, and serve. 

74L MASHED TURNIPS. 

Peel, cut in eight parts, and blanch in the usual way 
half a dozen turnips ; then drain and fry in a stewpan 
with, an ounce of butter for five minutes ; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg ; moisten with a gill of good white stock. 
Simmer gently with the lid on, and when well done rub 



368 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

through a fine wire sieve iato the stewpan again; add 
an ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 
and half a pint of good white stock or milk, mix well to- 
gether over the fire with a wooden spoon, and when nicely 
smooth and hot, serve. 

742. CARROTS A LTTAUENNE. 

Young carrots only should be used for this dish. Cut 
off the the green part of a bunch of new carrots, blanch 
in boiling water for about ten minutes, drain, and when 
cool peel off the skin with a knife or rub it off with 
a cloth ; put them in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and a pint of 
good broth. Boil on a brisk fire for about twenty minutes 
or till they are well glazed. Season with salt, pepper, and 
a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, add half an ounce 
of f i-esh butter, toss them over the fire, and when the butter 
is properly melted, dish up and serve. 

748. CARROTS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Select a nice bunch of new carrots, and blanch them in 
boiling water for ten minutes ; drain, and when cold rub 
their skin off with a cloth; slice them a quarter of an 
inch thick, put in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 
a pint and a half of milk, a good pinch of salt, and a little 
grated nutmeg. Partly cover the stewpan and boil on a 
brisk fire for about twenty minutes, taking care to stir 
occasionally with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. 
When the milk is properly reduced, dish up and serve. 

744^ PUR^E OF CARROTS. 

Scrape, clean, cut in slices, and blanch for ten minutes 
half a dozen nice long carrots; then proceed for the pui'ee 
as for mashed turnips (No. 235), and serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 369 

745. CELERY WITH BEEF MARROW. 

Select six heads of fresh celery, trim the outside leaves, 
cut the roots to a point and the green parts straight, 
leaving each head ahout six inches long; then cut these 
lengthwise, in halves, and wash well Blanch in boiling 
water for ten minutes, and immerse in cold water. When 
properly drained, put them carefully in a stewpan with a 
pint and a half of good broth; season with salt and 
pepper; simmer gently for about an hour; when well 
glazed, dish up on a hot disk Have ready about two 
ounces of beef marrow boiled for four minutes in salt 
water; add it to the glaze in the stewpan; toss it and 
mash it well ; squeeze the juice of half a lemon ; toss again ; 
then pour it over the celery, and serva 

746. CELERY AU GRATIN. 

Trim, cut in halves, and blanch six heads of celery as 
in the foregoing, then braize it in broth, properly seasoned, 
for an hour ; after which, dish it up as before, but without 
marrow and lemon -juice; sprinkle the top with grated 
cheese, put the dish in the oven to get brown ; then pour 
a gill of good gravy over, and serve. 

747. CELERY WITH GRAVY. 

Trim as in the foregoing and blanch for ten minutes 
six whole heads of celery, then immerse them in cold water, 
drain, and put them in a stewpan with a pint and a half of 
broth and an ounce of butter ; season with salt and pepper ; 
cover the stewpan and simmer for an hour and a half; 
when well done, dish up, pour tho remainder of the gravy 
over, and serve. 

2 A 



370 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

748. VEGETABLE MABROW. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Cut the vegetable marrows, aooording to their size, in 
two, four, or six, lengthwise; peel and remove all the 
seed, and then drop them into boiling salt water and 
simmer till tender. When done, drain them carefully; 
dish the pieces inside up, pour some Butter sauce (No. 216) 
over, and serva 

749. VEGETABLE MARROW. HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Select three small vegetable marrows about four inches 
long, peel, cut them lengthwise in quarters, and remove the 
seed. Blanch for five minutes in boiling water; dm in 
and put them in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter and 
half a gill of salad-oil, previously made hot; fry on a 
brisk fire ; season with salt and pepper ; and when done, 
sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, dish up, and 
serve. 

750. VEGETABLE HARROWS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare and blanch three marrows as in No. 749; when 
drained, fry them till cooked, with two ounces of butter ; 
when tender, dish them up, cover with Tomato saucey and 
serve. 

Note. — Marrows fried in butter can be served with a 
Sharp, Espagnole, Yelout^, or Bdchamel sauce. 

75L JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Scrub and wash well in plenty of water a pound of 
Jerusalem artichokes; peel and boil them in salt water 
for about fifteen minutes. When done, drain them upon 
a cloth ; dish up, pour some Butter sauce (No. 216) over, 
anil serve. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 371 

752. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES A LITALIENNE. 

Wash and peel a pound of artichokes as in No. 75 r, blanch 
them in boiling salt water for five minutes, then drain and 
put them in a stewpan with an ounce of melted butter. 
Moisten with half a pint of broth, season with salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg, and simmer very gently for about twenty-five 
minutes, with the stewpan covered, taking care to turn 
them, in order to acquire a deep yellow colour. When 
done, dish them up, squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
the remainder of the glaze, pour it over the artichokes, 
and serve. 

Note, — Pickled Jerusalem artichokes prepared in the 
following manner eat very well with cold meat : — 

Wash and peel four pounds of artichokes as previ- 
ously described, cut these in thin slices, boil for five 
minutes in enough vinegar to soak them, and properly 
seasoned with salt, a dozen cloves, and two dozen pepper- 
corns ; pour tlie lot into an earthenware pickle-jar, let the 
contents get cool, and then cover with a cork. It will keep 
for months, and any quantity can be taken out as wanted. 

753. GREEN ARTICHOKES. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Cut half an inch off the top of six artichokes, pare off 
the bottoms and loose leaves, and boil them in plenty of 
salt water for about three-quarters of an hour ; drain them 
upside down on a cloth, and remove the fibrous substance 
from the inside with the handle of a spoon, then dish up on 
a napkin, and serve vniYi Butter sauce (No. 216) in a sauce- 
boat apart 

754. ARTICHOKES A LA BARIGOULE. 

Trim six artichokes as in the foregoing, boil them in the 
same way, and remove the inside in a similar manner, then 



372 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

squeeze the water out, and sea^son them slightly with salt 
and pepper. Meanwhile pour a gill of salad-oil into a 
frying-pan, and when hot, fry the top of the leaves in it 
for about three minutes, then the bottoms in a similar way, 
and drain the artichokes upside down on a cloth. Chop 
up fine half a pound of fresh and trimmed mushrooms, 
a handful of parsley, and four shalots, put these into a 
stewpan with three ounces of scraped fat bacon and an 
ounce of butter ; season with salt, pepper, and a little 
chopped thyme; fry the lot for about seven minutes, 
stirring the while ; then lay it on a plate and divide it in 
six parts ; put each part of this mixture in each artichoke ; 
place a thin slice of fat bacon on the top of each ; tie 
round with string to keep them in shape ; put them in a 
saut6-pan ; moisten with half a pint of good stock ; bake 
in the oven for fifteen minutes ; remove the string, dish 
them up, and serve. 

765. ARTICHOKES A L'lTALIENNE. 

Ti*im, boil, and remove the inside of six artichokes as in 
the previous number ; dish them up, pour half a pint of 
boiling Sharp Italian sauce (Na 205) in the centre, and 
serve. 

756. FRIED ARTICHOKES. 

Trim and pare off four nice artichokes as described 
for artichokes. Butter sauce. Cut them lengthwise in 
slices a quarter of an inch thick, remove the fibrous sub- 
stance close to the bottom, and throw the pieces in cold 
water, with a gill of vinegar to keep them whita Prepare 
a batter with a gill of salad-oil, a quarter of a pound of 
flour, four yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste. When 
these ingredients have been well mixed together, if it is 
found that the batter is too thin, add a little flour; if too 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 373 

thick, a little cold water ; then drain the pieces of arti- 
chokes, and with the hand mix them well in the batter till 
they are all evenly coated ; after which, fry them in hot 
fat, previously heated to the right temperature for that 
purpose. When of a nice brown colour draw them out, 
and drain on a wire sieve ; sprinkle with salt, dish them 
up on a napkin, and serve. 

Note. — In addition to the above, artichokes either plain 
boiled or raw, can also be eaten k la poivrade, a mixture 
of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

767. SEAKALE. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Trim, clean, and tie the sea-kale up in small bunches, 
put these in boUing salt water and boil for about twenty 
minutes; when tender, drain and dish up on a napkin 
(after having removed the string), and serve with Butter 
sauce (No. 216) in a sauce-boat apaii. 

768. ASPARAGUS WITH BUTTER SAUCE. 

Scra|)e along the white stalks of the asparagus with a knife 
held in a slanting position ; pai^ off the loose leaves from 
the heads; plunge in cold water; then tie them up in 
bundles of about twenty-five in each according to size, 
taking care to have all the heads turned the same way; 
cut the stalks even. Put the asparagus in boiling water, 
with half an oimce of salt for each quart of water; boil 
for twelve or fifteen minutes according to size; and 
when done, which is ascertained by pressing with the 
fingers, take them out by the string and immerse at 
once in cold water ; then drain immediately, dish them up 
on a napkin, remove the string, and serve with Butter 
sauce (No. 216) in a sauce-boat apart. 

Note. — Asparagus should not be done too much ; in fact, 



374 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

it ought to remain always firm to the touch, and should 
never he kept in water after heing cooked, as it then gets 
flahby and spongy, like all other boiled vegetables, which 
will be spoiled in the same way if allowed to remain in 
water after being cooked. 

759. ASPARAGUS A LA HILANAISE. 

Scrape, tie, and boil the asparagus required as in Na 758 ; 
dish up on a napkin, and serve with a sauce-boat containing 
one ounce of grated parmesan cheese and two ounces of 
fresh butter, previously melted and well mixed together 
and seasoned with pepper. 

760. ASPARAOUS WITH BROWN BUTTER. 

Prepare and cook as above the asparagus ; drain and 
dish up on a napkin, and serve with some brown butter 
(No. 164) previously made for that purpose in a sauce-boat 
apait. 

76L ASPARAGUS WITH OIL AND VINEGAR. 

Trim and boil the asparagus as described in the fore- 
going, and after having dipped it in cold water and drained, 
' let it get quite cold (if laid on the ice with a cloth all the 
better). When ready dish up in the usual way, and serve 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, in a sauce-boat, all well 
mixed together to taste. 

Note, — The above style of serving asparagus is the most 
usual on the Continent. 

762. SPINACH A LITALIENNE. 

Pick off the stalks of three pounds of spinach, wash well 
ill two waters, drain upon a sieve or colander, and put it 
ill about three quarts of boiling water with half an ounce 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 375 

of salt, and boil for six or seven minutes ; then turn the 
spinach upon the sieve or colander and immerse in plenty of 
culd water till quite cold (otherwise it will assume a yellow 
tinge). Afterwards squeeze the water out, spread the 
spinach on the chopping-board, and chop slightly with u 
knife ; then fry in a saut^-pan with two ounces of anchovy 
butter till done, adding meanwhile two ounces of Malaga 
raisins (previously washed in lukewarm water), when well 
mixed together over the fire, dish up, garnish with croCLtons 
fried in butter, and serve. 

768. SPINACH, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Pick, wash, blanch, and chop three pounds of spinach as 
described in No. 762 ; then fry in a saute- pan, with two 
ounces of butter, two cloves of garlic, and four anchovies 
chopj^ed fine, till done; season with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, and just before dishing up add a little fi'esh butter, 
stir the whole well together, and servo with crotitons fried 
in butter. 

764. SPINACH A LA PROVEN9ALE. 

Prepare, blanch, and chop up the spinach as above ; after 
which, fry it with a gill of salad-oil and two cloves of garlic 
chopped fine till cooked ; season with salt and pepper, dish 
it up with croi^tons, and serve. 

766. SPINACH WITH BUTTER. 

Pick and wash three pounds of spinach as described in 
the foregoing, then boil till it becomes quite tender and 
soft to the touch, di*ain the water, immerse it in cold, and 
afterwards squeeze all the water from it between two plates, 
chop fine and inib it through a coarse wire sieve ; then put it 
in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter ; season with 



376 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Bait, [)epper, and grated nutmeg ; stir the spinach over the 
lire with a wooden spoon nntil it becomes quite warm, then 
add gradually half a pint of good broth, still stirring the 
spinach. When well mixed together and made quite hot, 
add a little more fresh butter, and when this is melted and 
properly mixed with the spinach, dish it up, garnish round 
with croiitons fried in butter, and serve. 

766. SPINACH WITH CREAM. 

Prepare the spinach as above, stir it with a wooden 
spoon over the fire in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter 
and seasoned with salt and nutmeg till warm; then add 
gradually half a pint of cream, a little butter and a dessert- 
spoonful of pounded sugar ; continue the stirring over the 
fire till the lot is well mixed together and hot, and dish 
up as in the foregoing. 

767. BOILED PEAS A L ANGLAISE. 

Put a quart of fresh shelled peas in two quaits of boiling 
water, with a few sprigs of mint and seasoned with a small 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil quickly till done, which will 
take between fifteen and twenty minutes ; then drain and 
put them in a saut6-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
sprinkle a little salt and pepper, toss them till the butter 
is melted, and serve. 

768. STEWED PEAS WITH BACON. 

Bemove the rind of a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon 
and cut it in dice half an inch thick ; fiy these in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of butter for five minutes, then sprinkle 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir over the tii-e for four 
minutes longer ; after which, add a pint of water, one quart 
of peas, and a few green onions, stew for about half an hour 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 377 

with the stewpan covered, then season according to taste, 
remove the onions, skim off the fat, and serve, 

769. PEAS A LA FRAN9AISE. 

Put a quart of fresh shelled peas in a stewpan with a 
gill of water, a few green onions and the heart of a cahbage- 
lettuce cut in four, three ounces of butter, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and the same quantity of lump-sugar. Set the 
stewpan on a slow fire to stew gently for about half an 
hour with the lid on. Meanwhile knead together a table- 
spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter, and when the 
peas are done add this paste to them. Toss the stewpan 
over the fire till the butter is melted and the peas properly 
thickcFied, then taste if well seasoned, and serva 

Note. — If tinned peas are used, throw them in boiling 
water, drain, season and finish as with fresh peas. 

770. FRENCH BEANS. 

Pick and remove the strings of one pound of French 
beans, and if large and old, shred them lengthwise; then 
throw them in plenty of boiling water with a good pinch 
of salt, and boil on a brisk fire till tender, which must be 
ascertained by trying them ; after which, drain them in a 
colander, dish up with an ounce of fresh butter in a lump, 
sprinkle a little salt over, and serve. 

77L FRENCH BEANS SAUTES. 
Pick the stalks and strings of a pound of French beans, 
and boil them as in the previous number; then drain 
them well and put iu a frying-pan with two ounces of 
melted butter; fry these over a brisk fii-e for about ten 
minutes; season with a little salt and chopped parsley, 
toss the contents well, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, 
toss again, and serve. 



378 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

772. FRENCH BEANS A LA HAItBE D'HdTEL. 

Remove the comers and strings of a pound of French 
beans; boil and drain them as previously described. 
Meanwhile have ready in a stewpan a gill of either 
Bechamel or Supreme sauce, with two ounces of fresh 
butter, a teaspoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, well mixed 
together over the fire ; then add the beans, toss the whole 
well together, and when quite hot squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over, toss again, and serve. 

778. DRIED WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Soak one pound of dried haricot beans, in plenty of cold 
water, for about twelve hours previous to cooking, then 
pick out all the imperfect ones and throw the best into 
a stewpan with three quarts of cold water and a table- 
spoonful of salt Boil with the stewpan covered till ten- 
der, drain the water through a colander and return the 
beans in the pan, with three ounces of fresh butter and 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; season with salt and 
pepper, and moisten with a little broth or the liquor of the 
beans ; toss the beans till the butter is melted, and serve. 

774. HARICOT BEANS, HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Soak a pound of haricot beans as in No. 773, cook them 
in salt water for a quarter of an hour, and drain in the 
usual way. In the meantime have ready hot in a stewpan 
a pint of mutton gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg ; put the beans in it, and continue the cooking till 
tender, add an ounce of fresh butter, and serve. 

Note, — Plain boiled haricot beans are also served as 
a salad; in that case they should be cold, and seasoned 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 379 

with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and a teaspoouful of either 
chopped parsley, tarmgon, or ohevril, 

775. BROAD BEANS A LA POULETTE. 

Boil in plenty of water till tender, with a good pinch 
of salt in it, two pounds of freshly shelled broud beans. 
Drain, and remove their skin ; then stir in the same stew- 
pan for three minutes over the fire, half an ounce of butter, 
with a similar quantity of flour, and make a liaison with 
the yolks of two eggs, half a gill of cream, nnd another 
half ounce of butter. When properly thickened, add the 
beans to the sauce, with a small teaspoonful of pounded 
sugar ', toss the stewpan to mix well, and serve. 

Note, — Broad beans can also be prepared a la maiti-e 
d'hotel, and in the same manner as haricot beans, for 
which see above. 

776. PUR^E OF BROAD BEANS. 

Boil till tender two pounds of broad beans, and drain 
them as described, then rub them with a wooden spoon 
over a fine wire sieve, and return the pur^e to the stewpan, 
with either a gill of cream, Bechamel sauce, or a good 
gravy, and two ounces of butter ; stir the contents over 
the fire till hot, and serva 

777. LENTILS A LA HAITRE D'HdTEL. 

Soak for about four hours and wash one pound of lentils, 
and boil them in about two quarts of water and a dessert- 
spoonful of salt till done, then drain them in the usual 
way. Meanwhile prepare a quarter of a pound of mattre 
d'hdtel butter, to which mix a tablespoonful or two of the 
liquor in which the lentils were boiled ; add these to the 
sauce, toss them up till hot and well-mixed, and serve. 



380 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

778. LENTILS^ HOUSEWIFE STYLE. 

Wiusli, cook, and drain a pound of lentUs, as in No. 777. 
Meanwhile cut about two ounces of streaky bacon (free 
from rind) in very small dice, and fry them with half an 
ounce of butter for three minutes. When the lentils have 
been properly drained, return them to the stewpan with 
either a gill of Espagnole sauoe or good gravy; add the 
bacon to it, stir, and serve. 

779. STUFFED TOMATOES A LA PROVENgALE. 

Select six firm tomatoes of equal size and ripeness. Put 
them in boiling water for two minutes, in order to help the 
removal of the skin; when peeled, cut them across in 
halves, remove the seeds, and place them in a sautc-piin, 
well spread with salad oil, by the side of the fire. Mean- 
while chop very finely an onion, half a handful of parsley, 
six large fresh mushrooms, and two anchovies; fry these 
for five minutes in a stewpan with about an ounce of 
scraped fat bacon, season with salt, pepper and chopped 
thyme, and moisten with either good gravy or Espagnole 
sauce; then put this stuffing over the twelve halves of 
tomatoes. Sprinkle some fine raspings over, set the 
saut^-pan over a brisk fire for about five minutes, then in a 
hot oven for seven or eight minutes or till they are properly 
baked, after which dish carefully without breaking, and 
serve. 

780. GRILLED TOMATOES. 

Hemove the stalks of six ripe tomatoes, cut them across in 
halves, and set them (skin downward) on a clear fire to grill 
seven or eight minutes, according to size. Move them 
gently over the bare of the grill, without however, turning 
them. When cooked, season each half with salt and pepper. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 381 

dish them on buttered toast, previously made for that pur- 
pose, and serva 

Note, — ^Tomatoes are also made into salad. 

Remarks on Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms should be soaked in water with a little salt 
and vinegar, then washed in plain water and wiped dry 
before cooking, and as a safeguard against poisoning, should 
be cooked with a peeled onion. If the onion remains 
white, the mushrooms are good ; but if the onion becomes 
black or even slightly coloured, they ai*e poisonous, and 
should at once be destroyed. A piece of silver thrown 
with the mushrooms when being cooked will also answer 
the same purpose, and be distinguished by the same 
process. 

781. MUSHROOMS AU ORATIN. 

Select a dozen large mushrooms; cut the stalks and 
remove the skin; place the mushrooms (the hollow part 
upwards) in a well buttered saut^pan; fill them with a 
similai* preparation to that for stuffed tomatoes, but 
substitute the cut stalks chopped fine for mushrooms; 
strew some fine raspings over them, and put the saute-pan 
in the hot oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an hour, 
then dish them up in a pyramidal form, and serve with 
some good gravy apart. 

782. MUSHROOMS A LA BORDELAISE. 

Clean and trim the mushrooms as in the foregoing, 
put them in a frying-pan with some salad oil and a 
clove or two of garlic chopped very fine; fry over a 
moderate fire for ten or twelve minutes, and season with 
salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Wlien done, 



382 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

squeeze the juice of half a lemon, dish up the mushroom^ 
and serve. 

788. MUSHROOMS A LA MILANAISE. 

Select, dean, and trim some nice mushrooms, marinade 
them for an hour in a little oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper; 
after which wipe and flour them ; then pass them in the 
jolks of eggs well heaten and mixed with some grated 
Parmesan cheese, seasoned with salt, pepper, and allspice, 
and fry in hutter and oil, previously made hot in a frying- 
pan for that purposa When of a nice brown colour and 
crisp, dish up and serve. 



Remarks on Onions. 

The qualities and virtue of the onion are gi^eat^ and they 
will never be too much known or appreciated. 

Tlie onion is the most wholesome of all vegetables, and 
is at the same time a safeguard against many ailments. 

Whenever and wherever a person is suffering from any 
infectious fever, let a peeled onion be kept on a plate in 
the room of the patient. No one will ever catch the 
disease, provided the said onion be replaced every day by 
one freshly peeled, as then it will have absorbed the whole 
of the poisonous atmosphere of the room, and become black. 

Onions are good for a cold, cooked as well as raw ; they 
can be served as a vegetable, and are constantly in request 
for culinary purposes. 

Garlic is also a safeguard against cholera, by keeping a 
clove in the mouth as you would a lozenge for cough. 

784k STEWED ONIONS. 

Peel four Spanish onions of equal size, and boil them 
for a quarter of an hour in plain water; drain .and put 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 383 

them in a saute-pan, previously spread with fresh butter : 
moisten with a good pint of broth, and season with salt, 
pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar. Put them 
in a hot oven to bake for about twenty minutes, taking 
care to baste them often when nearly done, set the pan 
over a brisk fire, roll the onions in their liquor, and when 
well glazed, dish up, pour the remainder of the glaze over, 
and serva 

Note. — Onions can also be served stewed in milk. Pro- 
ceed as above, but substitute a quart of milk for the broth. 



786. REMARKS ON SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

Man eats nearly everything, either cooked or uncooked, 
and foremost among the latter are herbs and roots, prepared 
for food with special condiments and ingredients, and called 
salad. 

The raw materials used in France and Italy for salads 
are numerous and varied : for instance, celeriac, radishes, 
rampion, beetroot-bulb, and the potent onion; the stems 
and leaf -stalks of asparagus, celery, purslane and arti- 
chokes ; the leaves of lettuce, endive, cress, dandelion, and 
chicory; the flowers of the bitter pungent nasturtium, 
and the fruits and seed-pods of cucumbers, capsicums, 
tomatoes, beans, peas, and the like; as a matter of fact, 
there are more things in earth and field capable of salad 
treatment than the somewhat prejudiced English gastro- 
nomic philosophy ever dreamt of. 

There is an art in dressing a salad really well, as no 
ingredient should be more prominent in its taste than 
the other. There must be neither too much of it nor too 
much in it, but just enough of each. 

Although many men of high social positions have won 



384 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

honour and distinction in salad making, the gift of pre- 
paring such tasty delicacies is essentially womanly. To 
her delicate fingers must be left the care of washing the 
loaves separately and drying them by affectionate pressure 
in a white cloth ; let her reach the acme of perfection by 
rubbing the mystic " chapon '' or crust of bread with the 
fragrant clove of garlic. Let her dry the salad-bowl, and put 
the pepper in with moderation and the salt to taste ; then, 
like one of the five wise virgins, she will have her olive oil 
to hand, to pour in two and a half tablespoonfuls to each 
one of French vinegar, together with a touch of mustard ; 
nnd if to these ai*e added half a teaspoonful of chopped 
tarragon or clievril, and the whole be properly stirred and 
blended with a wooden spoon and fork, she will have 
concocted the best salad dressing desirable, and will only 
have to add, when required, the carefully-wiped leaves and 
''chapon" and toss them about, to bid them absorb the 
magic mixtura 

In addition to the above-mentioned herbs, plain boiled 
potatoes, carrots, cauliflower, beetroot, haricot beans, 
truffles, and any kind of cold cooked fish, lobster, crab, and 
('ggs, are also made into salads. Let the potatoes, carrots, 
beetroot, truffles, and eggs be thinly sliced, and the cauli- 
flowers cut into small heads ; substitute chopped onion for 
garlic, or omit it altogether if not agreeable, and spread 
a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 



786. REMARKS ON SANDWICHES AND CANAPES. 

Sandwiches are made with ham, beef, chicken, pickled 
tongue, smoked salmon and herrings, tinned sardines and an- 
chovies (fish as well as paste), caviare, hard-boiled eggs, salad, 
Tratercress, or mustard cress. With respect to meat sand- 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 385 

wiches, the process is always the sama Select a tin loaf, 
which should be a day stale, cut as many slices one eighth 
of an inch thick as there are sandwiches required ; then 
blend with a knife a little mustard with fresh butter, 
spread this on the slices of bread, cover evenly one half of 
these with the meat, previously cut very thin for that pur- 
pose, then reverse the other half slices of buttered bread 
over the meat. Press the sandwiches slightly with the 
hand, and pile four of them together ; then trim them with 
a sharp knife, by cutting off all the crust, and cut them 
through either in square or triangular form and dish them 
up on a napkin. 

Note, — When beef or chicken sandwiches are made, salt 
should be sprinkled over the meat before being covered, 
and with chicken the mustard must be omitted. 

787. SARDINES ON TOAST. 

Fish sandwiches are made differently to those of meat or 
poultry. The slices of bread are toasted and buttered 
whilst hot, then sai'dines, split in halves, boned, and scaled, 
are laid on the toast and served with the fish uppermost. 

Note. — Smoked salmon, as well as anchovies and caviare, 
are served in the same way ; but with respect to salmon the 
slices must be cut very thin, and they can be served either 
raw or broiled on oiled paper on a gridiron over a slow fire 
for one minute each side and served when cold. 

788. ANCHOVY CANAPES. 

Out as many slices of crumb of bread, two and a half 

inches long, by one and a half wide and a quarter of an 

inch thick, as there will be canap^ required ; fry these in 

clarified butter to a nice golden colour; and when cold, 

spread a little anchovy butter on each. Steep some 

2 B 



386 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

anchovies in cold water ; dry them with a cloth ; split, bone 
and trim them ; then place four halves lengthwise on each 
piece of bread, leaving three small spaces between each 
fillet ; fill the first with chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, 
the middle with chopped parsley, and the third with chopped 
hard-boiled white of egg ; dish on a napkin and serve. 

Note, — Anchovy paste can be substituted for the fillets; 
in that case, after having spread the paste over the bread, 
add a slice of hard-boiled egg in the centre. 



789. SMOKED HERRING CANAPES. 

Cut and fry the bread as described in 788 ; spread these 
pieces with anchovy butter, and cover them with smoked 
herrings, previously trimmed, skinned, boned, and cut into 
fillets lengthwise, and steeped in olive oil for some four 
hours, then wiped and moistened again with fresh oil ; and 
serve, properly dressed, on a napkin. 



CHAPTER XVm. 

REMARKS ON PASTE AND SWEET DISHES. 

I HAVE already given the recipes for ordinary paste (Na 
95) to make tagliatelli with, and puff paste (No& 318 
and 319) for patties, bouch^es, pies, &o. ; — I will now pro- 
ceed with a proper description of paste for raised pies, shoi-t 
paste for tarts, brioche paste, almond paste, &c., &c., to 
make cakes and pastry with.* 

790. SHORT PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the slab, spread it out 
in the centre, then add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and a gill and a half of cold water. Pro- 
ceed to work the whole together with the hands into a very 
firm paste in the following manner : When the ingredients 
have been worked into a paste, bring it to the edge of the 
slab, then use the palms of both hands alternately with great 
force to spread and divide the paste into small part& 
Sprinkle a few drops of water over the paste and knead it 
together, this is called " breaking and kneading*' and must 
be repeated four times. The paste must then be gathered 

* With respect to pastry and sweet dishes, their names and styles are 
legion, and are so complicated in their shapes, colours, and tastes, thst 
they famish enough materials for a large work of their own. I will 
limit myself to simply giving what I consider the most useful and practical 
recipes, and at the same time recommend Mr. Jules Gouff^'s most 
valuable '*Boyal Book of Pastry and Confectionery" to those who wish 

tu know more on this subject. 

337 



388 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

up, placed in a clean cloth, pressed together, and is ready 
for use. 

791. SHORT PASTE FOR TARTS. 

Spread a pound of sifted flour on the slab with a hollow 
in the centre, then add half a pound of butter, two ounces 
of pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, two whole eggs, and 
rather more than a gill of water. Work these together 
with the hands to a £rm paste, and use it to cover fruit 
tarts, and lining tartlets, &c, 

792. BRIOCHE PASTE. 

Spread a quarter oT a pound of sifted flour on the slab, 
with a small well in the centre ; then put half an ounce 
of German yeast in it, and dissolve with a little tepid 
water ; when this is done add sufiicient water to mix the 
whole into a rather soft paste. Knead this into the form 
of a round ball, put it into a stewpan capable of containing 
three times its quantity, score it with a knife round the 
sides. Put the lid on, and set to rise in a rather warm 
place. In summer the fermentation will proceed satis- 
factorily if it is merely placed on the kitchen table, or in 
some such place of moderate warmth. This is termed 
setting the sponge. Meanwhile put three-quarters of a 
pound of flour on the slab, spread as before with a well in 
the centre, put a teaspoonful each of salt and pounded 
sugar, together with two tablespoonfuls of water to dissolve 
them, after which add ten ounces of butter and six whole 
eggs. Work the whole together with the hands, until well 
mixed, first by rubbing it with both fists held flat on the 
slab, and moving them to and fro, so as to thoroughly 
reduce any remaining lumps in the paste. By the time 
the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen 
sufliciently. To be perfect, it must rise to three times the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 389 

original size. When spread out on the paste prepared to 
receive it, it should have the appearance of a sponge, from 
which it takes its name. 

Both the above should then be thoroughly mixed together, 
and placed in a napkin spread in a basin, with a little flour 
shaken over ; shake again a little flour over the paste, fold 
the ends of the napkin over all, and set the basin in a cool 
place free from any current of air. 

This kind of paste should be made the evening previous 
to the day it is required. The first thing the following 
morning, the brioche paste must be turned off the napkin 
on to the slab ; shake some flour under and over it ; fold 
the paste over half a dozen times, pressing it down with 
the knuckles each time ; put the paste back into the napkin 
in the same way as before ; and about three hours after- 
wards knead again in a similar manner, previously to its 
being baked. 

If this paste when finished, appears to be fall of small 
globules of air, and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is 
certain to be well mada 

After that, spread slightly with butter a baking-sheet, 
and form the paste into buns or rolls ; egg these well with 
the paste-brush, make a little round incision on the top, 
and bake in a brisk oven for about twenty-five minutes. 

Note, — Parmesan or Gruy^re cheese is sometimes in- 
troduced in brioches, in which case a quarter of a pound 
of the former should be grated, or the same quantity of the 
latter cut up in dice and well mixed with the paste. 

798. ALMOND PASTE. 

Blanch in boiling water for three minutes half a pound of 
Jordan almonds ; cool, peel, wash, drain, and wipe them in 
a cloth ; then pound them to a paste in a mortar ; moi^n 
with a few drops of lemon juice while they are being 



390 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

pounded, to prevent them from turning oily ; when this is 
done, add to the mortar half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of pounded sugar, one tablespoonful of orange-flower 
water, and a pinch of salt ; pound all these well together, 
adding three eggs, broken one after the other ; when well 
mixed, put in a basin. Make one pound of puff paste as 
described in No. 319, give it five turns, cut it into two 
equal pieces, and roll with the rolling-pin each separately to 
half an inch thick, then put one half on a buttered baking- 
sheet, spread the almond paste on it, leaving a margin of 
about one inch and a half all round ; wet the edge of the 
paste and lay the other piece over, press with the thumb all 
round to stick the two together, egg the top, and bake 
in the oven for fifty minute& Let the cake cool, then 
sprinkle some pounded sugar over, and serva 

794. VICTORIA CAKE. 

The following ingredients are required to make the above 
cake : One pound of sifted flour, ten ounces of fresh butter, 
six eggs, three ounces of pounded sugar, three ounces of 
pounded almonds, four ounces of dried cherries, two ounces 
of green citron shred fine, one teaspoonful of cinnamon 
powder, a gill of whipped cream, half an ounce of German 
yeast, half a gill of brandy, and one teaspoonful of salt. 

Place the butter in a good-sized white kitchen pan, and 
work it with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, 
by which time the butter should {>resent the appearance 
of thick cream ; then add three eggs, the cinnamon, pounded 
sugar and almonds, the cherries, citron, brandy, and about 
one-fourth part of the flour; work the whole quickly to- 
gether for a few minutes with the spoon, then add gradually 
the remainder of the flour and eggs, still working the 
paste with the wooden spoon. When the lot has been 
used up, spread the paste out in the centre of the pan, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 391 

and add to it the yeafit and salt dissolved in a spoonful 
of tepid water, and the cream, whipped first before being 
added. When the paste is properly mixed, take a tin hoop 
measuring about six inches in diameter by three deep, 
line the inside of this hoop with buttered paper cut three 
and a half inches wide, lay this on a baking-sheet lined 
also with a sheet of buttered paper, put the paste in the 
mould and let it rise by fermentation, to twice its original 
quantity, by keeping it in a moderately warm place, then 
put in an oven, not too hot, to be baked till of a light 
colour. 

Note, — It is impossible to determine on the exact length 
of time that this or any other cake should remain in the 
oven before it is done. This depends mainly upon the con- 
struction of the oven, but the way to ascertain whether a 
cake is properly baked is by running a small wooden 
skewer down its centre ; if this should be found diy and 
free from paste when withdrawn, the cake may be safely 
turned out of the hoop, when it will be found of a light 
colour, and have a smooth surface; 



795. PARISIAN CAKE. 

Have the following ingredients ready to make the paste 
required for Parisian cake : One pound of sifted flour, ten 
ounces of fresh butter, three ounces of pounded sugar, 
four whole eggs and four yolks, half a pint of cream, four 
ounces of Jordan almonds and one of bitter ditto, two 
ounces of candied orange peel, half an ounce of yeast, and 
a teaspoonful of salt. 

Shred in small narrow strips the orange peel. Blanch 
and remove the hulls from the almonds, then wash and 
pound them to a very soft paste, adding a few drops of 
water to prevent them becoming oily, and mix with the 



392 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cream; let them steep thus for half an hour in a cool 
placa 

For mixing this paste, follow in all respects the directions 
given for Victoria paste, adding the orange peel after having 
put the paste in the mould, and mixing it with the^ yeast 
dissolved in a little tepid water ; after which let it ferment^ 
and hake as described in the foregoing. 

Note. — It is advisable to put these cakes back in the 
oven for two or three minutes after they are turned out 
of the mould, to prevent their becoming shrivelled on the 
surface^ or shrinking and falling in. 

796. SAVOT CAKE. 

Ingredients : Four ounces and a half each of potato flour 
and finest Vienna flour, fourteen eggs, and one pound of 
pounded sugar. Separate the yolks from the whites of the 
eggs, put the former in a basin and the whites into an 
egg-bowl, in a cool place, add the sugar to the yolks, with 
a pinch of salt and a few drops of either orange, lemon, 
orange-flower, vanilla, or bitter almond essenca 

Work these together with a wooden spoon until the 
whole presents the appearance of a thick creamy batter, 
then the whites must be whisked into a firm snowy froth. 
Meanwhile let both flours be well mixed in with the batter, 
and as soon as the whites are satisfactorily whisked, mix 
them also with the paste by adding them in small quantities 
at first, until it has become smoothly diluted, then add 
the remainder of the ingredients, and mix thoroughly well 
together. 

Chop very fine one pound of either beef or veal suet, 
then melt it in a stewpan and strain through a cloth, 
pour this into the mould, turn it round in all directions, 
BO that the fat may touch all the angles and recesses, after- 
wards pour it out, and turn the mould on a plate and let it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 393 

stand in a warm place for a few minutes, that the fat may 
be entirely drained off; then shake about three-quarters 
of a pound of finely-pounded sugar into the mould, in order 
that it may effectually cover the whole of its inside with a 
perfectly smooth surface. When this is done, pour the 
mixture in the mould, put this on a baking-sheet in the 
oven, which must be heated moderately, and particular 
care taken to keep it closed as much as possible while the 
cake is baking, and do not increase its temperature. 
When the cake is of a light colour, it must be turned out 
of the mould, reversed on the baking-sheet, and returned 
to the oven for two or three minutes longer. 



797. PLUM CAKE. 

Ingredients required : One pound and a half each of 
flour, currants, and butter; one pound each of pounded 
sugar and dried cherries slightly chopped, and one pound 
of candied citron, orange and lemon peel in equal quantities 
all shred small; half a pound of ground almonds, eight 
whole eggs, half an ounce of ground spice, consisting of 
cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg mixed in equal proportions, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a pint of brandy. 

Put the butter in a large white earthen pan, and work 
with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of 
a creamy substance; then add gradually the flour, sugar, 
and eggs, still working the paste with the wooden spoon. 
When thoroughly mixed, add gradually also the remaining 
ingredients and work it well together, then pour into a 
convenient-sized tin hoop (previously lined with double 
bands of buttered paper) and place it on a baking-sheet with 
two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, and put it in 
a moderately-heated oven to bake to a light colour, taking 
care not to increase the heat during the operation. 



/ 



394 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

708. PLAIN SEED-GAKE. 

Ingredients: Six eggs, half a poond each of potmde<l 
sugar and butter, a teaspoonfol of salt, half an ounce of 
carrawaj-seeds, and one quartern of common dough. Spread 
the dough on the slab, add the whole of the above-named 
ingredients to it, and work well together with the hands 
so as to mix the lot well with the dough. The eggs should 
be added only two at a time. When the paste is readj, 
put it into a plain mould, previously spread with butter, 
and put it to rise in a warm place ; and as soon as the fer- 
mentation has taken place in a satisfactory manner, put 
the cake in the oven to bake till of a light colour. 

799. POUND-CAKE. 

Ingredients: One pound each of flour, butter, and 
pounded sugar ; eight eggs, half a gill of brandy, a pinch 
of salt, and a few drops of orange or lemon essenca Put 
the butter in a large basin, work with a wooden spoon 
until it assumes the appearance of a thick cream, then 
add gradually the flour, sugar and eggs, and when the 
whole is properly made into a paste, add the brandy, salt, 
and essence. Mix well together with the spoon, and pour 
it in any kind of mould, previously spread with butter, or in 
a tin hoop lined with buttered paper. 

800. SAVARIN CAKE. 

Ingredients : One pound of flour, two ounces of sugar, 
ten ounces of fresh butter, eight eggs, two ounces of shred 
almonds, half an ounce of German yeast, and a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Put one- fourth of the flour on the slab with the jreast, 
and proceed to dissolve it as described for making brioche 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 395 

paste, then place in a similar manner in a stewpan in a 
warm place to ensure its gradual rising. In the meantime 
dissolve the salt with a teaspoonful of tepid water in a large 
white pan or basin, put the remainder of the flour with the 
butter, sugar, and four eggs ; mix the whole together with 
the right hand, beating up the paste until it easily leaves 
the sides of the pan, then break in the other four eggs, and 
work it for five minutes longer; when the sponge has 
risen to twice its original quantity, add it and mix it well 
with the pasta Butter a cylinder mould, strew this with 
the shred almonds, half fill the mould with the paste, let 
it stand in a moderate temperature, and when it has risen 
to the top of the mould, put the savarin to bake in a 
modei^te oven for about an hour. When done turn the 
cake out of the mould, let it cool for about fifteen minutes, 
then pour over some hot syrup flavoured with cura9ao or 
other liqueur, and serve warm. 

801. BABA. 

Ingredients : One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, 
two ounces of pounded sugar, three ounces of Muscatel 
raisins, two ounces of currants, one ounce of candied citron, 
a small pinch of saffron (infused in half a gill of boiling 
water), half a gill of either brandy or rum, a teaspoonful 
of salt, eight eggs, and half an ounce of German yeast. 

Dissolve the yeast with one-fourth of flour as in No. 
800, and let it rise in the same manner ; meanwhile spread 
out the remainder of the flour so as to form a well in the 
centre, dissolve in this the salt with a few drops of tepid 
water, then with it put the butter, sugar, and broken eggs ; 
mix the lot thoroughly with the hands on the slab, and 
work it well by gathering the paste up closely with the 
hands, and jerk it down on the other part of the paste for 
about five minutes, and as soon as the sponge is sufficiently 



396 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

riseoy spread it over the paste and mix both lightly together ; 
add the stoned raisins and some well- washed currants, 
candied citron chopped fine, the ram, and the inf asion of 
saffron; work the whole well together, spread a large 
monld with batter; half fill it with the paste, and put 
it in a warm place until it rises to the top of the mould, 
bake it in a moderately-heated oven to a golden colour, 
when done turn the baba out of the mould on to a dish, 
and serve. 

Note, — The mm or brandy may be omitted, and the baba 
served with a sauce composed of apricot jam warmed up in 
a stewpan with half a pint of syrup and a gill of rum, and 
poured over the baba. 

802. GENOESE CAKE. 

Ingredients : Half a pound each of flour, pounded sugar, 
and butter, four eggs, half a gill of brandy, and a good 
pinch of salt. 

Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt well together 
in a basin with a wooden spoon; then add the butter 
(merely melted by the side of the fire) ; work this well with 
the paste ; pour it afterwards on a baking-sheet, previously 
spread with butter, to the thickness of about an eighth of 
an inch, and bake in a moderately-heated oven to a light 
colour ; when done, turn it on a sheet of paper, and cut or 
stamp it out either in circular, oblong, oval, angular, leaf- 
like, or any other fancy shapes; these should then be 
decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as for 
meringues (No. 867), and ornamented with currants, &a 

803. OINGER CAKE. 

Ingredients : One pound of flour, twelve ounces each of 
fresh butter and pounded sugar, two ounces of ground 
Jamaica ginger, and eight yolks of eggs. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 397 

Work the whole of the above-named ingredients into a 
paste on the slab, then gather this into a compact mass 
and separate into four parts, roll these to the thickness 
of the sizth of an inch, and with a tin cutter stamp out as 
many cakes as the paste will produce; place them on a 
slightly buttered baking-sheet, pass a paste-brush over 
when they are about half done, shake some sugar over, 
and set them back in the oven to finish baking of a very 
light colour. 

804. SPANISH CAKE. 

Ingredients required : Half a pint of water, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, five 
ounces of flour, three eggs, a few drops of orange essence, 
two ounces of chopped almonds, and a pinch of salt 

Put the water, butter, salt, and sugar into a stewpan 
on the fire, and as soon as these begin to boil withdraw 
the stewpan; add the flour, stir the whole well together 
with a wooden spoon for about three minutes, when the 
paste should be of a soft and compact appearance, then add 
the essence and one egg; mix these well with the paste, 
then mix in the other two eggs, and if the paste should be 
stiif, add another egg^ or the yolk only may be added ; this 
paste, when properly made, should be laid out on a baking- 
sheet in small round balls the size of a pigeon's egg^ and 
egged over with a paste-brush, then the chopped almonds 
must be mixed with a tablespoonful of pounded sugar and 
a very small quantity of white of egg, and strewn over the 
balls with a little sifted sugar shaken over, and baked of a 
very light colour, then served either plain or garnished with 
cream or any kind of preserve. 

805. MADELEINES. 

These are made with the same kind of paste as for 
Genoese cakes, to which currants, dried cherries, candied 



39S PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

peel| or angelica may be added When the paste is 
ready, pour it into a sufficient number of small fluted or 
plain madeleine moulds previously buttered inside, then 
place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in an oven of 
moderate heat. When properly baked turn out of the 
moulds, and let them get cold before serving. 

806. RICE CAKE. 

Put one pound of pounded sugar in a whipping-bowl 
with sixteen eggs; whip both together over a very slow 
fire for fifteen minutes ; then add half a pound of ground 
rice, three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter slightly 
melted in half a gill of Maraschino. Mix the whole lightly 
together; then butter and flour a cylinder mould three 
inches high, put the paste in It, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. When done, turn the cake out of the mould, glaze 
it by pouring over a coating of apricot jam reduced with 
syrup, and sprinkle over the hot jam an ounce of chopped 
almonds, and let the cake cool before serving. 

807. PASTE FOR SPONGE CAKE AND BISCUITS. 

Ingredients: Eight eggs, one pound of pounded sugar, 
one ounce of vanilla sugar, and a quarter of a pound each 
of wheaten and potato flour. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs ; put the latter 
in the egg- bowl and the former in a basin, which mix with 
both sugars, and work with a wooden spoon. Whisk the 
whites, add them lightly to the yolks, then sprinkle both 
flours, and mix well together to a smooth paste. Meanwhile 
have ready spread with butter two moulds kept hot at the 
mouth of the oven, and strewn with fine dried sifted sugar 
inside ; fill the moulds, within an inch from the border, with 
the paste, and put in a well-heated oven to bake. When 
clone, which will be when a trussing needle thrust into the 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 399 

centre of the cake comes out dry and free from dampness, 
turn them out of the moulds ; and when cold, trim off the 
paste that comes above the mould& 

80a ITALIAN BISCUITS. 

Ingredients required : Six eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
five ounces of fiour, a few drops of essence of either lemon 
or orange, six ounces of chopped almonds, and a pinch of 
salt. 

Break the eggs, and divide the whites from the yolks by 
putting the latter into a basin and the former in a whip- 
ping-bowl; add the pounded sugar, essence, and salt to 
the yolks, work these well with a wooden spoon till they 
present the appearance of a thick creamy batter. Then 
add half the flour, and mix it well in, after which whip the 
whites of the six eggs to a firm froth, and mix them 
lightly with the paste with the remainder of the flour, tak- 
ing care to keep the mixture as firm and light as possible. 
Butter and flour a baking-sheet, fill a biscuit forcer with 
some of the paste, and force it out gently on the baking* 
sheet in round or oval shapes twice the size of a five- 
shilling piece. When the whole of the paste is used up in 
this manner, strew the chopped almonds equally over the 
biscuits ; then shake over the surface some pounded sugar, 
and bake them of a very light colour in rather a slack 
oven. 

Note, — These biscuits are most appropriate for dessert. 

809. CHAMPAGNE BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : Half a pound each of pounded sugar, 
fresh butter, and flour ; eight eggs, a quarter of an ounce 
of carraway seeds, and a pinch of salt. 

Put the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden 
spoon until of a thick creamy appearance; then add 



400 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

gradually the sugar, floor, yolks of eggs, the canaway j 

seeds, and salt Work these well together with the spoon, 
then mix the eight whites of eggs, previously whisked firm ^ 

for the purpose ; lay a sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, 
fill a biscuit-f oroer with some of the paste, and proceed to || 

force out the paste on the sheet of paper in the shape of 
a finger three inches long by one wide, leaving an inch 
space between each biscuit ; shake over some sifted sugar ; 
when all the paste has been used, bake in a moderate 
oven for about ten minutes, then let them cool before 
removing them from the paper. 

Note. — ^Hiese biscuits are only served for dessert. 

810. APPLE TART. 

Make a puff paste (No. 319) at six turns, and roll it to 
a quarter of an inch thick. Butter an open tart mould, 
line it on a baking-sheet with the paste, and trim it on 
a level with the top of the mould; fill this with apples, 
previously peeled, the cores removed and cut in quarters, 
or slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; add a sufficient 
quantity of pounded sugar to sweeten the apples, and strew 
over the rind of a lemon rubbed on sugar and then scraped 
off. Cover the tart with puff paste, egg it over with a 
paste-brush, make some fanciful, but slight incisions on 
the top with the point of a knife, and let it bake of a 
light golden colour; when done, turn it carefully out of 
the mould, shake some sifted sugar upon, and serve when 
cold« 

811. FRUIT TARTS IN GENERAL. 

When apricote, peaches, or any kind of large plums, 
are used for making tarte, the stones must be removed. 
In other respects they are invariably made and baked as 
the foregoing. Cherry, damson, raspbeny, and currant 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 401 

tarts are made with the same directions, except that the 
stones of the two former need not be removed. 

812. APPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel and cut the apples in rather thick slices, remove 
the cores with a tin cutter, and put the slices in a basin 
with about half a gill of brandy and a tablespoonful of 
pounded sugar, as well as some grated peel of either lemon 
or orange; toss the slices gently in the liquor, and let 
them steep thus for several hours if possible. Meanwhile 
make a batter paste (No. 317). Warm up to the right 
temperature a proper quantity of fat in the frying-kettle, 
and a quarter of an hour before serving drain well on a 
cloth the slices of apples ; dip each of these separately in 
the batter, and drop them quickly in the frying fat ; 
accelerate the fire when all the slices are in, stir with the 
skimmer, and when the fritters are crisp and of a nice 
golden colour, drain them on a cloth, shake some sifted 
sugar on both sides, and dish up on a napkin on a hot 
dish, and serva 

818. PINE-APPLE FRITTERS. 

Trim the pine-apple without waste, cut it into small 
pieces the size of a finger, steep them in a basin with a 
little Maraschino and a spoonful of pounded sugar ; then 
proceed to dip each piece in the batter, as described in 
the preceding number, and fry them in every respect as 
apple fritters. 

814w ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Feel the number of oranges required for fritters, diviclo 

them into quarters, remove the pips, and steep them in a 

basin with half a gill of brandy and a spoonful of pounded 

sugar ; toss these quarters well, so as to enable the brandy 

to be absorbed. Meanwhile prepare some light-made batter 

2 c 



402 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

(Na 317), and proceed (when about to send to the table) in 
the same way as for apple fritters. 

81& BEIGHETS FRITrERS. 

Pat a pint of water into a stewpan, with a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded sugar, and a 
small pinch of salt ; bofl it ; Hheaa. draw the pan away from 
the fire, add gradually whfle stirring with a wooden spoon, 
half a pound of flour and the grated peel of a lemon ; stir 
this over the fire four minutes longer, then take it away 
from the fire and break in one egg, mix it thoroughly 
before adding another, and continue in the same way until 
five eggs have been used, if the paste is rather stiff, use 
one more, as this must be of such consistency as not 
to spread when dropped from the spoon. Warm some 
frying-fat in the frying kettle ; when hot, draw it to the 
side of the fire^ spread the paste one inch and a half 
thick on a stewpan cover, hold the cover in the left hand 
over the frying kettle, dip the hooked handle of a kitchen 
ladle in the hot fat, and with it detach portions of the 
paste, the size of a walnut, and let them drop in the hot 
fat. When the paste has been all used, push the kettle on 
the fire, and stir the fritters with the skimmer till done, 
which can be ascertained by trying them with the finger ; 
if found of an even yellow colour, and firm to the touch, 
they are ready ; then drain them on a wire sieve, sprinkle 
with pounded sugar, dish on a hot napkin, and serve. 

Note. — ^The fat for frying sweet fritters must be quite 
fresh, and only used for frying similar sweet dishes, and on 
no account should fat be used in which fish has been fried 

816. BROWN-BREAD PUDDING. 

Ingredients required : Three quarters of a pound of 
brown-bread crumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six eggK, 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 403 

half a pint of whipped cream, a little grated lemon rind, 
a pinch of cinnamon powder, one pound of morella cherries, 
and a good pinch of salt. 

Mix the bread crumbs, sugar, the yolks of eggs, lemon, 
cinnamon, salt, and whipped cream, well together in a basin, 
then add the whisked whites of six eggs, and set it asida 
Spread a plain mould with butter, strew it with brown- 
bread crumbs, and put a large spoonful of the mixture 
at the bottom of the mould ; then arrange a layer of cherries 
upon it, cover these with some of the mixture, then another 
layer of cherries, and so on till all has been put in the 
mould. This must now be placed in a moderately-heated 
oven to bake for about an hour. When done turn it out 
of the mould on a dish, pour some cherry sauce around, 
and serve. 

817. SEMOLINA PUDDING. 

Ingredients : Twelve ounces of semolina flour, six 
ounces of pounded sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
six eggs, a pint of good milk, a tablespoonful of orange- 
flower water, and a pinch of salt. 

Mix the semolina with the sugar, orange- flower water, 
the half of the butter, two eggs, milk, and salt, in a stewpan 
over the Are until it boils ; continue stirring till the paste 
is perfectly smooth and ceases to adhere to the sides of the 
pan, when it must be withdrawn from the fire, and the 
remainder of the eggs and butter added gradually and 
well mixed with the paste; then spread the inside of a 
mould with butter, fill it with the paste, put the bottom of 
the mould in a deep saut^pan half filled with boiling water, 
place in the oven to bake for about an hour and a quarter. 
When done, turn the pudding out of the mould on a hot 
dish, pour either a custard or fruit sauce over, and serve. 



404 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



818. CABINET PUDDING. 

This pudding is made with sponge cake. Spread the 
inside of a plain mould with butter, stone two ounces of 
raisins, pick, wash, and dry the same quantity of currants, 
cut in small dice about an ounce of candied citix>n and two 
ounces of dried cherries ; lay at the bottom of the mould 
some of the mixed fruit, on these lay some slices of sponge 
cake, and continue alternate layers till the mould is two- 
thirds full Then beat the yolks of six eggs for about a 
minute, and add while stirring a pint of boiled milk, half 
a gill of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar. 
When the lot is well mixed together, pass slowly through 
a tammy into the mould ; let it thus stand for a few minutes, 
after which cook the pudding in a bain-marie for half an 
hour, then turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and 
serve with a custard sauce or a sauce made as follows : — 
Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan with half a pint 
of syrup, stir this over the fire until the sauce coats the 
spoon, then add a gill of brandy, or some other liqueur, 
pass the sauce through a tammy, and pour it over the 
pudding before serving. 

819. CHESTNUT PUDDING. 

Peel and boil two pounds of fine chestnuts, remove the 
second skin, and rub the pulp through a fine wire sieve ; 
place the pur6e in a stewpan with a pint of milk or cream, 
two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, and a pinch of salt; stir the 
lot over the fire until the mixture thickens, then quicken 
the stirring so as to prevent the contents from adhering 
to the bottom of the pan, and as soon as it detaches itself 
from the sides of the said pan remove it from the fire, add 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 403 

the yolks of six eggs, properly beaten, and the whites of 
four, whipped firm. When these have been well mixed 
together with the spoon, pour it into a plain mould well 
spread with butter, and boil in a bain-marie for about 
an hour. When done, turn the pudding carefully out of 
the mould into a hot dish, and serve with a little apricot 
jam, previously warmed and diluted for the purpose. 

820. GINGER PUDDING. 

Put a pint of good milk into a stewpan on .the fire, with 
a quarter of a pound each of sugar and butter, and a pinch 
of salt. As soon as it boils, draw the stevrpan from the 
fire ; sprinkle six ounces of flour. Stir the whole together, 
put it back on the fire, stining the while for five minutes 
longer, then remove the pan from the fire ; add gradually, one 
by one while stirring, six eggs and six ounces of preserved 
ginger cut into small pieces. Mix the lot well together, 
spread a mould with butter, pour the mixture in it, and 
cook in a bain-marie for about an hour and a half; then 
turn the pudding out of the mould into a hot dish, and 
serve with custard sauce, made with syrup from the ginger, 
poured over it. 

821. LEMON PUDDING. 

Rub on sugar the peel of four lemons, put this with the 
juice of two in a basin with a pint of good milk, the yolks 
of eight eggs, and the whites of three whisked, a quarter 
of a nutmeg grated, a good pinch of cinnamon powder, a 
small pinch of salt^ and six ounces of pounded sugar. Mix 
the lot well together with a wooden spoon, after which put 
a border of puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, spread 
the inside with butter, pour the mixture into it, and put 
in a moderately-heated oven to bake for about half an hour. 
When done, shake over some sifted sugar, and serve. 



4o6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

822. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Cut about a pound of thin slices of bread and butter, and 
put them in a pie-dish, which must only be half full, 
together with a quarter of a pound of well-washed and 
dried currants, and two ounces of chopped candied citron 
between the slices. Boil one pint of milk with the peel 
of a lemon, a pinch of salt, and six ounces of sugar ; break 
four eggs into a basin beat them up with a fork, then 
add the milk gradually to them. Strain the lot through 
a tammy into the pie dish ; let it soak thus for ten minutes, 
and bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. When 
done, shake over the top some sifted sugar, and serve. 

828. COLLEGE PUDDING. 

Chop up three-quarters of a pound of beef marrow, and 
put it in a basin with one ounce each of candied lemon, 
orange peel, and candied citron, all chopped coarse, also half 
a pound of well-washed and dried currants, half a pound of 
bread crumbs, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar ; 
mix these well together with the hands, then add three 
eggs, half a gill of brandy and one of sherry ; work the lot 
well together with a wooden spoon; butter two moulds 
slightly, put the mixture in them, and bake the puddings 
in a moderately-heated oven for half an hour. When 
done, turn the puddings out of the moulds on to a hot 
dish, ^d serve with a sauce mcule as follows: — ^Put the 
yolks of three eggs into a stewpan with one ounce of 
pounded sugar and a gill of sherry ; whisk the eggs over 
the fire without boiling ; when the sauce thickens, pour it 
over the puddings, and serve. 

824. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put a pint of milk into a stewpan with six ounces of 
tapioca, three ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, a pinch 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 407 

of salt, and the grated rind of half a lemon ; stir the lot 
over the fire till it boils, then cover the stewpan and let it 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, after which draw the 
stewpan from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, and the 
whites of two whipped; mix the lot well together, and 
pour it into a pie-dish previously spread with butter, put 
the pudding in a moderately-heated oven to bake for about 
half an hour, and serve. 

Note. — Sago, semolina, rice, vermicelli, macaroni, and 
tagliatelli can be prepared and baked in the same manner, 
and vanilla or orange-flower water essence substituted for 
lemon rind. 

826. RICE PUDDING. 

Wash half a pound of Italian rice, and boil it for fifteen 
minutes in a stewpan with a pint and a half of good milk, 
a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, and 
a small stick of vanilla or any other flavouring, after which 
draw the stewpan from the fire, add the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, mix the lot well together, and pour it 
into a pie-dish previously buttered ; bake in a well-heated 
oven for twenty minutes, and serve. 

826. PLUM PUDDING. 

Put in a large basin three-quarters of a pound each of 
picked and finely-chopped beef suet, stoned raisins, well- 
washed and picked currants, moist sugar, bread crumbs, 
peeled russet apples, with the cores removed and cut in 
small dice, and a quarter of a pound each of candied 
citron, orange, and lemon, all cut in small dica Mix 
these thoroughly with three pounded cloves, a good 
pinch each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt, a gill of sherry, 
half a gill of brandy, and four eggs, one at a time. When 
the lot has been well worked together with the hands, it 



4o8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

should remain in a cool place for at least six hours 
before setting the pudding to boiL I advise the mixture 
to be made the day before the pudding is required. Then 
a pudding basin must be buttered and filled with the 
mixture. Fasten a strong doth over the top (previously 
spread with butter or flour) by bringing the four ends 
round the bottom of the basin, where they must be tied 
securely. Meanwhile have a stock-pot, with about six 
quarts or more of boiling water, ready on the stove ; place 
a strong stick or iron bar across the pot, hang the pud- 
ding to it with strings to prevent the basin touching the 
bottom of the pot, and let it boil for at least six hours, 
(if more all the better), taking care to replenish the pot 
with boiling water when wanted. 

When done, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a 
hot dish, sprinkle it with pounded sugar, pour half a pint 
of warm brandy or rum over it before serving, and light 
with a match when the pudding is on the tabla 

Note. — The following sauce is a very good substitute for 
rum or brandy : — Put the yolks of four eggs into a stew- 
pan with two ounces of pounded sugar, a gill of sherry or 
any other white wine, the peel of half a lemon rubbed on 
sugar, and a small pinch of salt. Whisk this sharply 
over a slow fire until it assumes a frothy appearance, then 
pour it over the pudding. 

827, ROLEY-POLEY PUDDING. 

Pick and chop very fine one pound of beef suet, put it 
in a basin with one pound of flour and a good pinch of 
salt, mix these to a stiffish paste with about three gills 
of cold water, then roll it out to a quarter of an inch 
thick and of an oblong shape; spread any kind of jam 
on the paste, and roll this round to the form of a long 
roll. Roll the pudding afterwards in a buttered cloth, tie 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 409 

both ends up tightly with string, and tie it with string 
lengthways, to keep it in shape ; then drop it in plenty 
of boiling water, and let it boil for about an hour and a 
half. When done, turn the pudding carefully out of the 
doth, put it on a hot dish, and serve. 

828. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

Make half a pound of suet paste as described in the 
previous number, line a pudding-basin with it, and £11 it 
up with picked gooseberries ; spread a layer of moist or 
brown sugar over the fruit, cover this with a round of 
paste, and tie a cloth tightly over the top, then set it in a 
stewpan full of boiling water to boil for an hour and a 
quarter; when done, remove the cloth, turn the pudding 
out of the basin on to a hot dish, spread some brown sugar 
over, and serve. 

Note, — Currant and raspberry pudding, cherry, apricot, 
greengage, damson, and black currant puddings, are all 
made in the same way. 

829. APPLE PUDDING. 

Line a pudding basin with half a pound of suet paste 
made as in the foregoing, then cut some cooking apples 
in quarters, peel, core, and fill -the basin with them, add 
two or three cloves and a little chopped lemon peel, spread 
a layer of moist sugar. Cover the apples with paste, then 
tie the top with a cloth. Boil and serve the pudding as 
directed above. 

880. PANCAKES. 

Mix half a pound of flour in a basin with a tablespoonf ul 
of pounded sugar, a small pinch of salt, a gill of milk, 
and three eggs. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan 
with three gills of milk on the fire, and add it gradually 



4IO PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

to the paste in the basin, so as to make a smooth batter ; 
if found to be too thick, a little more milk must be added ; 
melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a small stew- 
pan, and keep it bj the side of the fira Warm a pancake- 
pan, butter it with a brush dipped in the melted butter, 
then pour in some of the batter so as to cover the bottom 
of the pan when spread. F17 the pancake until it is 
coloured on one side, then toss it over to colour it on the 
other side; when done, slip on to a hot dish, shake over 
some sifted sugar, and roll it up. Bepeat the same thing 
till all the batter is used up; lay the pancakes in close 
circular order in double or treble rows, and serve them 
very hot, with some cut lemons on a plata 

Note, — ^The batter can be flavoured with a dessert- 
spoonful of orange-flower water. 

881. PANCAKES WITH JAM. 

Prepare a batter as in the foregoing, and as each pancake 
id fried spread any kind of jam upon it, roll it up, and 
place on a dish in the oven; when all the pancakes are 
fried, sprinkle some pounded sugar over them, glaze them 
with a red-hot salamander, dish up on a napkin as before 
described, and serve. 

882. OMELET SOUFFLl 

Separate the whites of six eggs from the yolks, put the 
whites in the egg-bowl, and the yolks in a basin with a 
quarter of a pound of pounded sugar and a teaspoonful of 
orange-flower water or any other essence, or the grated 
peel of a lomon ; mix these well with a wooden spoon for 
five minutes, then whip the white of the eggs to a firm froth 
and mix them lightly with the yolks, after which butter a 
silver or baking-dish, pour the egg mixture over as lightly 
as possible, smooth over in the form of a dome with a 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 411 

knife, and put it in a moderatelj-heated oven to bake for 
ten or twelve minutes ; when ready shake over the omelet 
some pounded sugar, and send it immediately to the table. 

Nate, — ^All souffles should, as soon as taken out of the 
oven, be at once sent to the table, and in order that this 
should be done with success, the servant must wait in the 
kitchen for it, otherwise if the souffle is left too long, even 
in the oven^ it will collapse and get spoiled. 

883. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLI 

Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate into pieces, put 
it in a stewpan over the fire with a gill of milk, and work 
with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste, then add a 
quarter of a pound of fiour, two ounces of pounded sugar, 
a small pinch of salt, and three gills of milk. Stir this to 
a nice batter, then add the yolks of six eggs, two at a time, 
and mix well, after which whisk the whites of six eggs into 
a firm froth, and add them lightly with the paste ; butter 
a dish as in the previous number, pour the batter into it, 
and arrange it as described in the foregoing ; then put it 
in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes, sprinkle over 
some sifted sugar, and serve the souffle at once. 

884. VANILLA SOUFFL& 

Boil a pint of milk and let it get cold, then mix with it 
a quarter of a pound of flour, three ounces of sugar, two 
ounces of vanilla sugar, and a small pinch of salt. Stir this 
over the fire until it boils ; then withdraw the stewpan from 
the fire, add the yolks of sis eggs, mixing in only two at 
a time, and when properly mixed add the whites of the 
eggs previously whisked firm, and proceed to bake the 
souffle as described for chocolate souffle, and serve 
quickly. 



412 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

885. COFFEE S0UFFL£. 

Put a quarter of a pound of roasted coffee beans into a 
stewpan with a pint and a half of boiling milk, let it boil 
for two minutes ; cover the stewpan closely, and let it thus 
stand for an hour, after which strain the milk through a 
pointed strainer, and with it proceed to make a batter as 
described for vanilla souffle with similar iugredients, but 
omit the vanilla sugar; bake and serve the souffle in the 
same way. 

886. CHEESE SOUFFL^. 

Grate a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese, and half 
that quantity of Gruy^re cheese ; mix a quarter of a pound 
of flour in a stewpan over the fire with a pint of milk, a 
teaspoonf ul of salt, and two pinches of pepper until it boils, 
then withdraw the stewpan ; mix in the grated cheese and 
the yolks of six eggs, added two at a time. Whip the 
whites of the six eggs very fine, mix them lightly to the 
paste, and pour into a buttered dish to bake in a 
moderately-heated oven for about twenty minutes, and 
serve immediately as previously described. 

887. RICE SOUFFLE. 

Wash a quarter of a pound of Italian rice, then drain 
and put it in a stewpan, with a pint and a half of milk, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, two ounces of vanilla sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Simmer the lot very gently for an 
hour, afterwards let the rice cool a little, and mix in the 
yolks of six eggs, one at a time. Whip firm the whites of 
the six eggs, and mix them lightly in the rice ; then pour 
the lot into a buttered dish, and put it in a moderately- 
heated oven to bake for twenty minutes. Shake some 
sifted sugar over the souffle, and serve at once. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 413 

888. OMELET WITH RUM. 

Break six eggs in a basin, add a teaspoonful of pounded 
sugar, and a small pinch of salt, beat these "vrith a fork, 
and fry the omelet as described in No. 253. When cooked, 
fold on a dish. Sprinkle some sugar over the omelet, glaze 
with a red-hot iron poker, pour a gill of hot rum over, set 
fire to it, and serve alight. 

889. OMELET WITH APRICOT JAM. 

Break six eggs as in No. 838, add a good pinch of pounded 
sugar and a small one of salt, beat, and fry the omelet 
with two ounces of good butter, as described ; before folding 
lay three spoonfuls of apricot jam in the centre, then fold 
the sides of the omelet over the jam, turn it on a hot dish, 
sprinkle over with sugar, pass a red-hot iron or poker over 
it, and serva 

Note, — Any kind of jam or preserve may be substituted 
for apricot jam, and sweet omelets should be served rather 
moist in the centre. 

840. {SNOW EGGS. 

Boil a quart of milk in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Meanwhile break 
six eggs, put the yolks in a basin and the whites in the 
egg-bowl, whip to a firm froth, then mix in a quarter of a 
pound of sifted sugar, and with a spoon drop some of this 
mixture, about the size of an egg^ into the boiling milk. 
When six spoonfuls have thus been dropped, put the stew- 
pan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for 
four minutes, turning the whites over when they are set, 
on one side, and when quite firm, on both sides, drain them 
on a sieve ; repeat the process till all the white mixture 
is used ; let the milk cool a little to make a plain custard 



414 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

with, then add the six yolks of beaten eggs and two oances 
of sugar, stir over the fire till the same begins to thicken 
and forming a coating on the spooa Withdraw the stew- 
pan from the stove, stir for three minutes longer, then 
strain the sauce through a pointed strainer, and when 
quite cold, dish up the eggs in a pyramidal form, pour the 
custard sauce over, and serve. 

^4L STEWED APPLES. 

Peel eight cooking apples, core and cut them in halves; 
place them in a stewpan with a quart of water, half a 
pound of loaf sugar, four cloves, and the peel of a lemon. 
Set them to simmer very gently till the apples are done, 
taking care to turn them over when half cooked, then take 
them out with the skimmer and dish up nicely. Mean- 
while reduce the syrup by quick boiling, strain it over the 
apples, and serve. 

ifote, — Stewed fruit can be served both hot and cold, 
but the latter is the best. In that case the syi'up should 
only be poured over the fruit when cold, and just before 
serving. 

842. STEWED PEARS. 

Peel very smooth eight stewing pears, and put them 
whole with their stalks, in a stewpan with a quart of water, 
half a pound of loaf sugar, a little prepared cochineal, and 
a small piece of stick of vanilla. Simmer very gently for 
about an hour (more or less according to the quality and 
size of the pears), let them cool in their syrup, then dish 
up ; reduce the syrup quickly by half, and when cold, and 
just before serving, pour it over the pears and serva 

848. STEWED PLUMS. 

Select a pound of nice plums ; wash and put them in a 
stewpan with enough water to cover them well, add two 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 415 

ounces of loaf sugar and a piece of cinnamon, simmer for 
about forty minutes ; when done, dish them up, add two 
ounces of loaf sugar to the syrup, and reduce it by half over 
a brisk fire ; then strain it, and when cold, and just before 
sending to the table, pour the syrup over the plums and 
serve, 

844. STEWED GREENGAGES. 

Select two dozen fine greengages, and put them in a 
copper sugar- boiler, with half a pound of loaf sugar and 
three-quarters of a pint of water ; wheu boiling, cover the 
pan, and let it simmer for ten minutes; then take the 
greengages out and dish them up, reduce the syrup by 
half, and when cold, pour it over the fruit, and serve. 

846. STEWED MIRABELLE' PLUMS. 

Select three dozen Mirabelle plums, put them in a copper 
sugar-boiler, with six ounces of lump sugar and three- 
quarters of a pint of water. Boil and finish as in the 
foregoing. 

846. STEWED APRICOTS. 

Pick a dozen not over-ripe apricots ; cut them in halvofi, 
remove the stones, break them, take the almonds out, and 
blanch and peel them. Put half a pint of water, with 
six ounces of lump sugar, in a copper sugar-boiler ; boil it, 
put in the apricots, and simmer for five minutes, then dish 
them up ; reduce the syrup by half, and when cold pour it 
over the apricots, place half an almond taken from the 
stones on each piece of apricot, and serve. 

847. STEWED CHERRIES. 

Pick a pound of cherries ; put a quarter of a pound of 
lump sugar in a copper sugar-boiler with one quart of 
water, boil this, and put the cherries in. Cover the pen, 



4i6 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

and simmer for five minaies ; after whidi dish the cherries, 
reduce the syrap by half, let it cool, poor it over the 
cherriesy and serve. 



848. STEWED FRUIT WITH RICE. 

Any kind of stewed froit can be served with rice ; this 
is a great improvement to the fmit, and makes it, at the 
same time, a more substantial sweet dish. Blanch half a 
pound of rioe in boiling water for three or four minutes, 
cool it in cold water, drain, and put into a stewpan with 
a quart of milk and one ounce of sugar ; boO gently until 
the rice is done, then lay it at the bottom of a dish, dress 
the stewed fmit on it in a circle, pour over the lot the 
synip in which the fruit was cooked, and serva 

Note, — ^The process of cooking the rice for stewed fruit 
is always the same, and can be served with as much taste 
and style hot as well as cold. 

849. STEWED DRIED FRENCH PLUMS. 

Soak two pounds of dried French plums for a couple of 
hours in plenty of cold water, then strain and put them 
in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, add 
the peel of a lemon, a piece of cinnamon, and half a pound 
of broken lump sugar to it; set the stewpan on the fire 
to simmer gently for about two hours, or till the plums 
are soft to the touch; when they are done enough, add 
half a pint of claret ; give this a slight stir over the fire, 
and as soon as a white scum begins to form on the top, 
draw the stewpan from the fire, pour the contents in a 
basin to get cold, and serve properly dished up with its 
syrup. 

Note. — E.icd boiled as in No. 848 is also a great improve- 
ment when served with steweil plnms. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 417 

850. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Feel and core twelve or fifteen nice cooking apples, cut 
them in thin slices, put them in a saut^-pan with two or 
three ounces of pounded sugar, and a quarter of a pound 
of fresh butter, previously melted; toss the apples over the 
fire till they are soft- to the touch, but not cooked. Take a 
plain round mould, cut some thin slices of crumb of bread, 
one of about one inch and a half round, some heart-shape 
pieces, and some narrow strips the height of the mould. 
Melt some fresh butter in a stewpan, dip the round and 
heart-shape pieces in it ; place the round one in the centre 
at the bottom of the mould, and the heart-pieces round it 
overlapping each other, and the points resting on the 
round piece ; dip the strips of bread in butter, and stand 
them round the sides of the mould, also overlaying one 
another. Fill the lined mould with the apple, and put it 
in a hot oven to bake until the bread is crisp and of an 
even yellow colour ; then turn the charlotte out of the 
mould on to a napkin on a dish, and serve hot. 

85L ?EAR CHARLOTTK 

Proceed for this as in the foregoing, but substitute peai-s 
for apples, and add a little vanilla sugar to the saut^-pan 
when cooking the pears, then fill up the mould. Bake it 
in the oven, and serve as above. 

852. COFFEE CUSTARDS. 

For six custard-cups, boil three cupfuls of milk with one 

ounce and a quarter of pounded sugar, and when a little 

cool, mix the yolks of five eggs, a small pinch of salt, and 

one cup of strong black coffee ; when these have been well 

mixed together, strain it through a silk sieve; have some 

boiling water in a shallow stewpan. Fill the six custard 

2 u 



4i8 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

cups with the costard, place them in the stewpan with 
boiliiig water, set this over a slow fire for the water to 
fliminer onlj veiy gently; pat the cover on the stewpan 
and some live coals on the cover. 

When the costards are set, take off the cover, let them 
oool in the water; then wipe the cops, pot them on a dish, 
and serva 

858. CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. 

Proceed wiUi the number of custards as directed in the 
foregoing, mixing the mflk with three oonces of melted 
chocolate instead of coffee, and finish in every way the 
samei 

Note. — Custards flavoured either with vanilla, orange- 
flower water, or lemon-peel are made and set in the same 
way as the abova 

864 MINCE-MEAT. 

Pick, wash, and dry three pounds of currants; stone 
three pounds of raisins; cut one pound of russet apples in 
quarters, peel and core them ; finely chop half a pound each 
of candied orange peel, lemon-peel, and candied citron cut 
in thin slices ; chop up the raisins and apples and mix well 
the lot together in a basin. 

Pick and chop very finely one pound of beef suet and one 
pound of roast lean beef ; add both to the basin with the 
fruit, together with one pound of pounded sugar, one ounce 
of ground cinnamon, half an ounce of lemon-peet chopped 
very fine, half an ounce each of pounded cloves and allspice, 
and a quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg; mix the 
whole well together, moistening with half a pint of sherry 
and a pint of brandy. Put the mince-meat into jars and 
tie closely down with brown paper. 

Not$, — Mince-meat should be made at least a fortnight 
lofore using it ; and if a month, all the better. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 419 

855. MINCE PIES. 

Ma^e a puff paste of ax turns (No. 318), roll it out thin, 
and with it line some small tartlet moulds ; fill them with 
mince-meat, cover them with a similar rolled paste, press 
and out them round, then egg them over with a paste- 
brush dipped in yolks ; cut a small pattern on the top, and 
bake in a well-heated oven for about a quarter of an hour. 
When done take out of the moulds, dish up, and serve. 

856. CLARIFIED SYRUP FOR JELLIES. 

Whatever quantity of syrup may be required, put three 
giHs of cold water to one pound of finest loaf-sugar into 
a copper sugar-boiler, and half the white of an egg^ whipped 
with a little water; whisk the lot together on the fire 
until it boils, then pour a few drops of cold water to enable 
the scum to rise, which must at once be removed with a 
silver spoon ; let the syrup simmer gently, until the whole 
of the scum has been thrown up and removed, adding a 
little more cold water if necessary ; then strain the syrup 
through a napkin or jelly- bag into a basin and put by in 
a cool place for usa 

857. LEMON JELLY. 

Oalfs-foot, isinglass, and gelatine are the foundations 
or basis of all kinds of jellies, bavarois creams, and blanc- 
mange. 

I have already described the manner of making a plain 
calfs-foot jelly (No. 227), which is the most wholesome 
stiffening to usa Isinglass is the best, being prepared 
from the bladder of sturgeons. It is perhaps the purest 
and cleanest, but it is also the dearest; consequently 
gelatine is generally the stiffening used, on account of its 
lower cost. 



420 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Put two oimoes of gelatine ia a stewpan with three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar and the juice of two 
lemons. Whisk the whites of two eggs in a basin, mix 
them with a quart of water, and pour the whole into the 
stewpan with the gelatine ; stir the liquid over the fire with 
the whisk until it boUs ; then take the stewpan off the fire, 
let it cool for a few minutes ; after which, pour the contents 
into the jellj-bag over the yellow peel of four lemons to 
strain, pour it back again, and again, until it is quite clear. 

Should there be no jellj-bag and frame handy, a kitchen 
stool upside down, with a fine diaper broth-napkin, previously 
rinsed in hot water, tied to the four legs, and a bain-marie 
put underneath to receive the strained jelly, will make 
a very good substitute for a jelly-bag and stand, but the 
proper jelly-bag is to be preferred. 

Press out or squeeze the juice of six lemons; strain 
through a silk sieve and filter with some filtering or white 
blotting paper into a water-bottle or decanter. Meanwhile 
have a three-pint jelly-mould in about three inches of 
broken rough ice, mix the filtered juice with the jelly, 
pour it in the mould, and let it set for some two hours. 
When the jelly is set firm, ten minutes before sending 
to the table, dip the mould in warm water, wipe with a 
cloth, shake it gently, so as to free the jelly from the 
mould without breaking, and turn it out carefully on a 
dish. 

Note, — As there are several kinds of gelatine with more 
or less stiffening power, it is advisable, after having clarified 
the jelly, to try a little in the ice firsts to see if it be too 
stiff, in which case a little more syrup may be added. 

858. STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Pick the stalks off one pound and a half of nice ripe 
strawberries, and put them into a basin ; boil three pints of 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 421 

clarified syrup and let it cool five minates; then pour it 
over the strawberries ; cover the basin closely and let them 
steep thus for an hour ; after which, filter the syrup through 
a jelly-bag. Meanwhile melt two ounces of gelatine on 
the fire with a little water, strain in the usual way, and 
when cool mix it- with the strawberry syrup. Set a three- 
pint jelly-mould in plenty of rough ice, pour in a quarter- 
inch layer of syrup and let it set slightly; then arrange a 
few fine picked strawberries on it, pour in one or two 
spoonfuls of syrup to keep the strawberries in position, and 
let it set ; then pour some more syrup in the mould, and 
when this layer is set, arrange another row of strawberries, 
and continue the process till the mould is full; place a 
baking-sheet on the mould with some ice on the top, and 
let it stand thus, for a couple of hours; when perfectly 
firm, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish, after 
having dipped it in warm water, as previously described, 
and serva 

859. ORANGE JELLT. 

Prepare this jelly as directed for lemon jelly, substi- 
tuting orange juice and peel for the lemon, and put a 
quarter of a pound less of loaf-sugar. 

860. MADEIRA JELLT. 

Mix one pint of clarified calf s-foot jelly with three gills 
of clarified syrup in a sugar-boiler on the fire, and when 
boiling draw the pan away and let it cool ; after which, add 
half a pint of Madeira with a few drops of prepared cochi- 
neal and a tablespoonful of filtered lemon- juice; mix the 
lot thoroughly well, and pour into a mould properly 
imbedded in the ice; put a baking-sheet with some ice 
on the top and let it set for two hours ; after which, turn 
the jelly out of the mould on a dish, as described in the 
foregoing, and serve. 



422 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Note. — All liqueur and wine jellies are prepared as 
directed above; but in cases of sweet liqueurs such as 
Curasao, Maraschino, creme de nojeau, par£ait amour, &a, 
&C., the proportions of syrup should be decreased by half 
a gill, and the liqueur increased by the same quantity. 

861. BLANC-MANGER FLAVOURED WITH ALMONDS. 

Blanch ten ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter 
almonds for two minutes ; drain and remove the skins, then 
pound them in a mortar; moisten with a few drops of 
water; put the paste in a basin with a pint of water, 
cover the basin closely with a sheet of kitchen paper, 
twisted round the border of the basin, and let it stand 
thus in a cool place for about an hour ; after which, strain 
the milk from off the almonds through a napkin with 
pressure by wringing it at both ends over a basin. 

Melt two and a half ounces of gelatine with half a pound 
of sugar and one pint and three-quarters of water in a 
stewpan ; stir over the fire till the gelatine is melted, then 
strain it through a silk sieve, and when cold add it to the 
strained almond milk with a teaspoonful of orange-flour 
water; mix the lot well together and pour into a three- 
pint mould, properly imbedded in ice, as described for 
lemon jelly ; let it remain in the ice for a couple of hours, 
after which, turn the blanc-manger out of the mould in the 
same style as a jelly, and serve. 

862. COFFEE BAVAROIS CREAM. 

Put a quarter of a pound of freshly roasted cofFee-beans 
into a stewpan with a pint and a half of boiling milk, cover 
the pan and put it aside for two hours, to allow the milk 
to infuse and draw all the flavour of the cofiPee. Break the 
yolks of eight eggs into a stewpan, add ten ounces of pounded 
sugar ; mix these well together with a wooden spoon, and 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 423 

when the milk infusion is ready, strain and add it to the 
yolks of eggs ; stir the lot over the fire with a wooden spoon 
till the cream or custArd hegins to thicken, hat avoid hoiling 
it, and when it coats the spoon take it off the fire and stir 
for two minutes longer. Meanwhile have ready one ounce 
and a half of gelatine, previously steeped in cold water for 
a quarter of an hour; drain and mix it with the hot 
cream, the heat of which will he sufficient to melt it. When 
this is done, strain the whole through a pointed strainer 
into a basin ; put this on about six pounds of broken rough 
ice, and stir all the time till the contents begin to set ; then 
whip a pint of double cream, remove the basin from the 
ice, and mix in the whipped cream lightly. Pour the 
mixture into a three-pint mould and return it to the 
broken ice; cover the mould with a stewpan-cover, with 
ice on the top, and let it remain thus in a cool place for 
about an hour and a half; then when wanted, dip the 
mould entirely into a basin of water as hot as the hand 
can bear, take it out quickly and wipe the top of the 
cream with a clean cloth, then put a dish over the mould ; 
reverse and remove it, and serve. 

868. VANILLA BAVAROIS CREAM. 

Put half a stick of vanilla in a stewpan with one pint 
of boiling cream; cover the pan and let it steep for a 
couple of hours. Break eight yolks of eggs in a stewpan, 
mix in half a pound of pounded sugar and the vanilla 
cream when ready; stir these over the fire until the 
custard coats the spoon, without boiling; then add one 
ounce and three-quarters of drained gelatine, previously 
steeped in cold water for fifteen minutes ; stir till melted, 
and strain the lot through a pointed strainer into a basin ; 
put this on broken ice and stir the contents until it begins 
to set, then mix in lightly one pint and a half of whipped 



4?4 PRACnCAL HOUSEHOIJ> COOKERY. 

«3^Ai>>je creaoL Ful a aoald with the ■uztare, put it in 
titf: wt, tgmtr the bmmM with the lid of a rtewpan with iee 
on tk«s; top^ and after two faoan the cnaai will be set, and 
earn be Utmed out of the iMMild in the 
ttj^ foruMiUE:. and 



85C ^HIOOIATB BATABOB CKEAK. 

This eream is made in the aune wa j as the abore, menfy 
rahitttating a quarter of a pound of dioocJate in«t4«d of 
▼anilla to the boiling 



805. STRAWBERRT CBEAHL 

Pidc the stalks off one pound of strawberries and rob the 
fruit through a silk sieve or tammy into a basin ; mix in 
half a pound of pounded sogar and the juice of a lemon ; 
steep one ounce and a half of gelatine for fifteen minutes 
in cold water, dissolve it in a small stewpan on the fire 
with a little water, and strain it through a pointed strainer 
into the strawberrj pulp. Whisk a pint and a half of 
dr/uble cream, and proceed to finish it as for vanilla cream. 

Noie, — Raspberries and red currants are prepared in the 
same manner as the abora 

A copper sugar-boiler should always be used to prepare 
red fruit, as tinned stewpans will destroy their colour. 

see. CREAM A LA ROHAINE. 

Blanch four ounces of Jordan with one ounce of bitter 
almonds ; remove the skins, wipe them dry, and chop 
them rather fine; put these in a sugar-boiler, and stir 
them over the fire with a wooden spoon until they have 
acquired a light-brown colour ; then throw them into a pint 
of milk, kept boiling for that purpose; add to it six 
ounces of sugar and eight yolks of eggs ; stir the whole 




PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 425 

• 

quickly until the yolks are set. Remove the boiler from 
the fire, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer ; 
then add one ounce and a half of melted gelatine (see 
Strawberry Cream); after which, rub the lot through a 
tammy, like a pur6e, into a basin ; mix in lightly a pint of 
whipped cream ; pour the mixture into a mould, and put it 
in the ice to set, as previously described. 

867. MERINGUES. 

Meringues, if put in a dry place, can be kept a long 
time, and may often be served with advantage as a sweet, 
if filled with either whipped cream or preserve ; therefore, 
whenever whites of eggs are to be had, they should be 
employed for the purpose. 

Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a firm white froth ; 
then with a table-spoon mix veiy lightly one pound of 
sifted sugar, taking care not to work the froth too much, 
for fear of softening it. Out some stiff white kitchen 
paper into strips two inches wide, and with a table-spoon 
gather the froth nearly full, by shaping it up at the side 
of the bowl in the form of an egg^ and drop it upon one 
of the bands of paper, at the same time drawing the edge 
of the spoon sharply round the outer base of the meringue, 
so as to give it a smooth and oval appearance, in order 
that it may resemble an egg; proceed in this manner 
until the froth is all used up, keeping the meringues about 
two inches apart from each other. As each band is filled, 
place them close to each other on boards of aboiit an inch 
thick, made for that purpose with well-seasoned wood, 
and cut, of course, to the size of the oven ; sprinkle some 
sifted sugar over the meringues, and put them in a very 
moderately heated oven to bake of a light fawn-colour. 
When done, each meringue must be carefully removed from 
the pnper. Scoop out the white part of the inside with a 



426 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

dftjM! It -spoon, place tii«m in neat order <m a baldng-sbeet, 
and retnm them to m tctj dnek oven to dry, taking care 
not to let them a c quii e any more eoloor. 

When eold. thej can be stored away in a box in a dry 
place ; and when wanted, whip some dooble cream, season 
it with a little poonded sogar and eitiier a few drops of 
onmge-fiower water or a little poonded vaniDa; garnish 
each moingae with a tab&espoonfal of this cream ; join 
two together, dish them np in a pyramidal form on a 
napkin upon a dish, and serve. 

^T'/f. — Corrant jelly or any kind of marmalade can be 
snbstitoted for whipped cream, bat a teaspoonfal of either 
will be found sofficientw 



868. HOW TO FREEZE ICES. 

In order to be able to freeze ices, creams, &c, it is 
necessary to have at hand an ice-tab with a hole and peg 
to it, an ice-pot or freeeer, and an ioe-spaddla A freezer 
with two or three partitions is the best adapted for family 
ose, as by that means two or three sorts of ices can l>o 
made at the same time, without extra tabs and rough ice. 

The freezer, properly cleaned, must be put in the centre 
of the tub, in a cool place, soiToonded with roughly pounded 
ice, mixed with three or four handfuls of common or bay 
salt, within two inches of the top of the freezer. Pour in 
the mixture intended for freezing, lay a piece of white paper 
across the top, and put the lid on ; then begin to turn the 
freezer by the handle of the lid from right to left for about 
twenty minutes, when the lid must be taken off to see if 
the mixture begins to freeze at the sides ; work this with 
the spaddle by pushing it in the centre, and continue 
turning the pot every two seconds; put the lid on and 
repeat the taming until the mixture is firmly set ; then 
draw the water off by taking out the peg; replenish it 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKER 

with fresh ice and a handful of salt, place a dan 
flannel over the top, and keep it in a very cool | 
wanted. 

869. LEMOM-WATEB ICES. 

Rub off the rind of two lemons on some lump! 
add the juice of ten lemons, a pint and a half i 
Ryrup (Xo. 856), and half a pint of plain wi 
thoroughly and Btmin through a hair sieve, anc 
previously described. 

870. CHERRT-WATEB ICE. 

Pick oS the stalks of two pounds of cherr 
them in a mortar with their stones ; rub them 
tammy; then add the strained juice of three Ii 
pint and a half of clarified syrup, and half a pin 
Mix and freeze as in So. 868. 

871. ICED VANILLA CBEAH. 

Boil in a stewpan one quark of cream ; put in it two 
sticks of vanilla, split lengthwise in four ; when boiling, 
cover the stewpan and let the cream infuse for an hour. 

Break eight yolks of eggs in a stewpan, add ten ounces 
of pounded sugar, and stir them together with a wooden 
spoon ; after which, mix in the vanilla cream and stir over 
the fire without boiling until the cream coats the spoon, 
then strain it through a tammy into a basin and let it get 
cold, giving it an occasional stir to prevent a skin forming 
on the top. When cold pour it in the freezer previously 
set in the ice (see No. 868), work it in the usual way, and 
when it is set, mix in half a pint of whipped double cream, 
close the freezer, continue turning it, as described in 
" How to Freeze," then oover the freezer and put it by till 
wanted. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

h icea, particalar care must be takeo, after having 
the flannel from the tub, to wipe around the top 
'eezer with a doth, before taking oS the lid ; then 
the ice with a spaddle on a napkin upon n dish 
egular pile, and eerre. 

1 however, the ice be preferred to be served 

proceed as follows: — ^When the cream has been 

as described and properly set, fill the ice-mould 

Cut a sheet of white paper to fit the mould, 

ibout an inch all round; put the cover on this, 

ot well closed, spread some butter over the open- 

1 imbed the mould in the pounded ice and salt, 

piece of folded wet flannel on the top, and let it 

lain in a cool place till the ice is wanted; after 

which, wipe the top carefully, turn the ice out of the mould 

in the same manner as a jelly, on to a napkin on a dish, 

Ifole, — Chocolate, orange, and lemon ice cream aiv 
prepared in the same way, simply substituting the selected 
flavouring for vanilla. 

872. ICED COFFEE CBEAM. 

Put a quarter of a pound of freehly roasted coffee-berries 
into a quart of boiling cream, cover the stewp-in, and let 
it infuse for an hour. 

Mix eight yolka of eggs in a stewpan with ten ounces of 
pounded sugar, stir the lot with a wooden spoon ; add the 
coffee cream, stir over the fire without boiling until the 
eggs thicken and coat the spoon ; then strain the cream, 
and finish the freezing as directed in No. S71. 

873. ICED STBAWBEBB7 CBEAH. 

Pick two pounds of ripe strawberries and rub them 

through a tammy or Rilk sieve into a basin ; add to this 



I-^ 



' 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 



429 



pur^e ten ounces of pounded sugar, a quart of cream, and 
the strained juice of a lemon; mix the lot well together 
with a wooden spoon, strain it through a silk sieve into the 
freezer, properly set in ioe (see No. 868) ; add a few drops 
of prepared cochineal to give the cream a pink tinge ; work 
the contents with the spaddle, and when partly set^ mix 
in half a pint of whipped double cream, and finish the 
freezing as directed in the foregoing. 

Note, — Baspberry and currant ice creams are prepared 
in the same way. 

874. ICED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Stone a quarter of a pound of raisins and cut them in 
halves; wash and dry two ounces of currants; cut one 
ounce of candied orange-peel or citron, and a similar 
quantity of angelica in small dice ; put these in a sugar- 
boiler with half a gill of Maraschino and simmer until the 
liqueur is reduced, when the sugar-boiler must be removed 
from the fire. Boil one quart of cream, put in it a stick 
of vanilla split lengthwise in four, and let it steep for an 
hour with the lid on. Break eight yolks of eggs into a 
stewpan, mix in half a pound of pounded sugar, add the 
vanilla cream, and stir the contents over the fire without 
boiling, until the cream thickens and coats the spoon ; then 
strain in the usual way into a basin, giving it an occasional 
stir, to prevent a skin forming on the surface, and when 
cold pour it into the freezer ready set in the ice (see No. 
868), and proceed to freeze in the usual way till the cream 
begins to set; then mix in gradually the chopped fruit, 
stir these in the ice with the spaddle, continue and finish 
the freezing as in vanilla ice cream, and serve either 
moulded or roughly set on a napkin on a dish. 

Note. — ^Any kind of preserved fruit, such as greengages, 



430 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

plomsy pine-apple, aprioots, &c., cut in small dice, can be 
Bubstitnted for the above fruit 



87& NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Fed two pounds of fine chesnuts; blanch them in 
boiling water to remove the second skin, and put them 
in a stewpan over the fire, with a quart of clarified sugar 
syrup and half a stick of vanilla, to simmer gently until 
the chesnuts are well done; then drain and rub them 
through a hair sieve into a basin. 

Mix in a stewpan eight yolks of eggs with half a pound 
of pounded sugar ; add one quart of cool boiled cream, stir 
the contents over the fire without boiling, until the eggs 
begin to thicken ; then mix in the chesnut pur6e and half 
a gill of Maraschino ; strain the lot through a tammy into 
a basin to get cold. Meanwhile wash and dry two ounces 
of currants ; stone two ounces of raisins and cut them in 
halves, and two ounces of either candied citron or mirabel 
plums cut in small dice ; put these mixed fruit into a sugar- 
boiler over the fire, with half a pint of clarified syrup and 
boil them for ten minutes, then strain in the usual way. 
When the chesnut cream is cold, pour it in the freezer 
ready set in the ice (see No. 868), work it with the spaddle 
until it is partly frozen, then add gradually the chopped 
fruit; mix them well with the ice cream, continue and 
finish the freezing as in Ko. 874, and serve in the same 
styla 

876. APPLE JELLY. 

Select some good Colville or Wellington apples; peel, 
core, slice, and put them in the preserving-pan ^jrith enough 
water to cover them well. Boil the apples till they are 
melted, then drain them on a hair sieve over a basin pre- 
viously weighed; now weigh the juice, and for every 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 431 

pound of it add ten ounces of lump-sugar. Put the juice 
and sugar in the pan, again properly cleaned, over the fire 
till the sugar is dissolved, then pass the jelly through a 
napkin and boil it in small quantities, say six pounds at a 
time, till the jelly marks 28° on the syrup-gauge, when it 
vrill be done. Pour this into pots, and when cold, lay on 
each top of the jelly a round of paper (cut of the right size) 
dipped in brandy, then another round of paper tied around 
the top of the pots with string, and keep the preserve in a 
dry cool place. 

Note. — ^The apple marmalade which remained on the 
sieve may be used for charlotte or open tarts. 



877. APRICOT JAM. 

Gut eight pounds of apricots into slices; put them in 
a basin with five pounds of pounded sugar; stir with a 
wooden spoon till the sugar is melted ; then put the whole 
into the preserving-pan to boil for ten minutes, stirring 
the while with the skimmer; take this out of the jam, let 
what is on it cool, and if it feels greasy under the finger 
the jam is done. The same thing can also be ascertained by 
pouring a little into a cold plate ; if it shows little tendency 
to spread, it is done. Pour the jam into pots, and cover 
them with paper when cold, as described in the previous 
number. 

878. QUINCE JELLY. 

Cut the quinces in quarters ; peel, core, slice, and weigh 
them, and allow for every pound of fruit put in the pre* 
serving-pan a quart of water ; then boil till the quinces are 
reduced to a pulp; drain them on a sieve over a basin, 
and to each pound of juice add ten ounces of lump- sugar ; 
after which, finish as for apple jelly. 



432 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

879. CURRANT JELLY. 

For this jelly it is advisable to have half red and half 
white currants, say four pounds of each, and two pounds 
of raspberries ; put the lot into the preserving-pan with 
a quart of water, and boil it on a sharp fire for about eight 
minutes, stirring the whole with a skimmer, to prevent the 
fruit adhering to the bottom of the pan; then pour tlie 
fruit into a hair sieve, over a basin ; rub and press it well 
to squeeze all the liquor out of it ; after which, weigh the 
juice, put it back in the pan, and for every pound ten 
ounces of lump-sugar must be added; stir the contents 
over the £re until the sugar is well melted ; strain the 
syrup through a tammy; boil it in two parts on a brisk 
fire, and when marking 28'' on the syrup-gauge it is done; 
then finish as the apple jelly. 



List of Utensils Bequired for a Family of 

Six Persons. 

I herewith give the list of kitchen utensils required for 
a family of from six to twenty-four persons. Of course, 
this list can to a great extent be modified, according to 
the number and circumstances of the family ; but it must 
be borne in mind that there are but few households where 
there is not, now and then, an extra number of guests 
during the year, and that nothing tends to upset the 
temper of a cook more than the want of certain indis- 
})ensable utensils at the time when everybody is busy, 
and which cannot then be obtained. I therefore strongly 
I'ecommend the furnishing of every necessary implement 
in a kitchen, if good cooking is to be expected : — 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 433 

Two iron gridirons of eight and ten inches respectively, 
for meat and fish. 

One fish-kettle with drainer, two feet long hy about nine 
inches wida 

One turbot -kettle with drainer, about eighteen inches 
long. 

Two oval braizing-pans with their covers and drainers, 
twelve and fifteen inches long by eight and ten inches 
wide, and seven inches deep, respectively. 

Two untinned copper sugar-boilers, six and ten inches 
in diameter respectively, for stewed fruit, syrup, &a 

One bain-marie, with a set of five or six pans all in 
tinned copper. 

One four-gallon tinned copper stock-pot and cover, for 
making ordinary stock and broth. 

One two-gallon stock-pot and cover, for broth. 

Twelve tinned copper stewpans and covers, varying in 
size from four to twelve inches in diameter. 

Three saut^-pans with covers, eight, ten, and twelve 
inches in diameter. 

Two ordinary tinned iron pans, for blanching vege- 
tables, &c. 

One copper preserving-pan, fourteen inches in diameter. 

One tinned copper slice, for boiled meat, &c. 
' One broth-skimmer. 

One copper skimmer for preserves. 

Three tinned iron gravy-spoons. 

Three tinned iron soup-ladles of different sizes. 

One cutlet-bat. 

One chopper. 

One meat-cleaver. 

One meat-saw. 

Four kitchen-knives, assorted. 

One steeL 

2 E 



434 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Two colanders, of six and nine inches in diameter i*e- 
spectivelj, for draining, &c 

Three baking-sheets, with two-inch return pieces, from 
eight to twelve inches in diameter, for baking meat, &c 

Three plain baking-sheets, to fit in the oven for baking 
pastry, &c 

Two tin colanders, four and five inches in diameter, to 
strain sauces, &a These should have very fine holes and 
may be in many instances substituted for a tammy sieve. 

Two oval tinned copper dishes for gratin, ten and fifteen 
inches respectively. 

One round tinned copper dish for gratin, nine inches 
diameter. 

One salamander to glaze and brown gratin. 

Two tinned iron frying-kettles, ten by seven inches^ and 
fourteen by ten, and six inches deep, respectively. These 
are made in one piece without any soldering. 

Two wire frying-basket& 

Three iron frying-pans, seven, eight, and nine inches 
diameter respectively, the former to be kept specially for 
omelets. 

Two wire sieves, one very fine. 

One silk sieve. 

« 

Two tammy sieves. 

Six diaper cloths for straining broth and jellies. 

One jelly-bag and stand. 

Two pointed strainers. 

Six wooden spoons of different sizes. 

One hard-wood forcemeat-presser. 

One marble mortar, nine inches diameter, with one hard- 
wood pestle. 

One wood block to chop meat on. 

Two chopping-boards, fifteen by ten, and two inches 
thick. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 435 

One set of measuraSy from half a gill to a quart. 

One set of scales and weights, from a quarter of an 
ounce up to twenty-eight pounds. 

One copper egg-boiler and two whisks, one large and one 
small. 

Six common dishes. 

Three pie-dishea 

Six earthenware pans, of three different sizes. 

Twelve basins of different sizes. 

One sausage-machine. 

One filter. 

One pair of large scissors to cut the fins of fish. 

Two tin f unnela 

One clock. 

One meat-safe. 

One ice-bucket with a hole, and a peg by the side at the 
bottom. 

One freezer with three divisions. 

One spaddle. 

One large daubing-needle, for larding large braizing 
joints. 

One medium ditto, ditto, ditto. 

One box of twelve larding-needles for venison, sweet- 
bread, fillet of beef, and cushion of veal. 

One tin sugar-dredger for pounded sugar. 

One seasoning-box with half a dozen compartmenta. 

One glazing-brush. 

Two pastry-brushes. 

One oval copper pie-mould. 

Two moulds for creams, jellies, and ices. 

Two cylinder ditto. 

Two open tart-moulds. 

One plain mould for savarin. 

One ditto, ditto, fpr charlotte. 



436 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 

Twelve small moulds for madeleines. 

Two boxes of paste-cutters, one plain and the other 
fluteiL 

On box of long cutters for vegetables. 

One syrupgauge, and a tall testing-glass to ascertain the 
quantity of sugar in syrup and preserves. This gauge, 
to be correct, must register zero when plunged in cold 
water. 

Six iron skewers of different sizes. 

One ice-prick 

Three trussing-needles of different sizes. 

One eight-cup French coffee percolator. 



INDEX 

OF BROTH, SOUPS, MACARONI, RICE, AND RISOTTO. 





No. 




No. 


BBOTHy or Consomm^ 


2 


Gnochetti with Butter . 


. 99 


Chicken . 


7 


SoUp, Goose Giblet . 
Gravy . 


. 130 


For Children or Convales 






cento . 


" 137 


Gravy, Chicken 
Game 


18 


Condensed or Glase . 


. 16 


19 


Crayfish , 


• 99 


Fish .... 


90 


Fish .... 


as 


Yegetablea 


21 


Another 


26 






Frog .... 


. 27 


SOUP, Hare, English Style 


63 


Game & la Chasseur . 


10 


Hare, Susinoise 


. 67 


Another 


II 


Jelly, Simple . 


. 150 


How to Make, in a fev 




Julienne . 


14 


Minutes 


13 


ajOOK .... 


. 38 


Mutton or Scotch 


. 136 


Lettuce 


42 


Partridge . . . , 


9 


Lettuce, Stuffed 


- 43 


Rabbit 4 la Proven^ale 


8 


Lombardo . 


 58 


Kefreshing 


xa 






Snail, for Obstinate Cougl 


i 149 


UACABONI Cardinale . 


86 


.V«il .... 


6 


Cheese . . . . 


88 


Vegetables ^ 


30 


Citizen Style 
Country Style . 


90 


Another 


31 


93 






Dominicaine 


. 87 


SOUP, Artois 


. 62 


Gratin . . . . 




Asparagus, Clear 


. 33 


Italian Style 


89 


Beef-tea . . . . 


X48 


Milanaise . 


- 94 


Beer and Wine . 


128 


Monglas • . . , 


85 


Bread and Raspings . 


140 


Napolitaine 

Piuermo . . . . 


91 


Brunoise . . . . 


"7 


83 


Cabbage . . . . 


34 


Plain 


81 


Milanaise . 


35 


Beine • . . . 


84 


Calfs TaU, Indian . 


133 


BEHABES on, and Paste < 


)f 


Chantilly • . . . 


49 


all Descriptions, and how i 


iO 


Clermont 4 . , , 


47 


Cook it, p«ige 49 




Cock a Leekie . 


135 


Sarde . . . . 


82 


Cond^ . . . . 


23 






Dawn . . . . 


77 


Soup, Manor-Houso . 


39 


Egg 


60 


Minestrone 


106 


Poached Styrienne 


131 


Mock-Turtle 


65 


Another 


13a 


Modena . . . . 


54 


Endive . . . . 


46 


Kavarin . . . . 


6i 



437 



438 


INDEX. 




« 


No. 




No. 


Soup, Now Carrot . 


. 41 


Soup, Bice, and Chesnuts 


. 104 


Onion Lyonnaise 
Onion Maigre 


. . 78 


Flour . . . . 


146 


79 


k la Fran^aise 


117 


Ox-tAiL . 


66 


au Gratiu . 


120 


Oyster 


• 127 


Rice and Milk . 


122 


Fap k la Keine . 


. »39 


and Pheasant . 


. 119 


Simple 


. . 138 


with Plain Broth . 


102 


Paite with Broth or Milk 


• H7 


with Potatoes . 


. 104 


Suup. Green Pea 


40 


Remarks on, page 61 




Pearl-Barley 


. 126 


and Vegetables . 


. 105 


Puleiita Napolitaine 


lOZ 


Risotto k la Chasseur 


III 


Pi^montaise 


100 


k la Genoise 


. '25 


Soup, Polish . 


22 


& ritalienne 


 109 


Polonaise . 


• 134 


Another 


1X0 


Potato Floor . 


. 144 


Housewife Style 


121 


Potato, Swiss . 


. . 76 


Milanaiae . 


. 108 


Pur^ of Crayfish 
Bisaue of Orayfis 
Puree of Chicken 


. or 


Pi^montaise 


107 


h . 123 


Puniastowsky . 


. "S 


. 64 


Portugaise . 


. "3 


Crecy . 


. 24 


Spanish Style . 


112 


Frog . 


. 28 


k la Turque 


. 114 


Game . 


. . 64 


Soup k 1 i Romaine . 


. 56 


Green Peas. 


• SO 


k la Rossini 


59 


I.entils . 


• Sa 


Sago .... 


142 


Potatoes and CIi< 


3vvil . 55 


Semolina . 


•45 


k la Keine . 


. . 61 


Sheep's Head . 


80 


Turnips 


• 37 


Sorrel, Clear 


44 


White Haricot B 


«au8. 53 


Sorrel, Thick . 


45 


Quenelles of Chicken 


. 72 


Spring . . . . 


»S 


of Game 


. 72 


Stock, Family . . . . 


3 


German 


. 74 


for Gravy and S^iunes 


4 


Potatoes . 


• 71 


Ordinary . . . . 


I 


k la Reine • 


 75 


Soup, Sturgeon 
Tagliatelli k la Chasseur . 


. 129 


of Rice 


 . 69 


. 96 


of Vegetables 


. 70 


k la Genoise 


96a 


Venitienne . 


• 73 


Housewife Style 


• 95 


liavioli k lltalienne 


• 97 


Soup, Tapioca . 


M3 


A la Romaine . 


. 98 


Tripe Milanaise . 


55 


nice, Boiled for Stewed I 


Vuit . 848 


TumiiM . . . . 


36 


Soup, Rice, and Cabbage , 


. 103 


Velout^ . 


. 141 


and Cream Cbasi 


war . 118 


Venitienne 


57 


and Cream ReaU 


. u6 







INDEX 



OF SAUCES, BUTTER, AND ESSENCES. 



■H- 



fiAXTCK, Allemande . 
Apple 
Bdohamel , 

Another 
Blanquette 
Butter 

for ABparagus . 

Anchovy 

Cayenne and Ourry 

Clarified 

Cmyfish or Lobster 

Horse-radish 

Maltre d*Hdtel . 

Melted 

Montpellier 

Noir or Brown • 

Perigord 

Rayigote 

Truffle 

and Ketchup 
Bread 
Caper • 
Cucumber . 
Devilled . 
Egg . 
Espagnole . 

Another 
Edsenoe of Anchovies 
Chicken 
Fuh . 
Game 
Mushrooms 
Truffles . 
S;iuce, Fennel . 
Financidre . 
Genoise 
Gherkin . 
Gooseberry 
Hare • 



No. 

156 
181 

154 

15s 
178 

157 
S16 

161 

168 

z6o 

169 

i6S 
226 

176 

163 

164 

167 
162 
z66 
177 
183 

193 
203 

201 

182 

174 

173 

^75 
172 

171 
170 
194 

187 
207 
192 
180 
200 



Sauce, Hollandaise or Dutch 
Horse-radish 

Cold . 
Indian 
Italian 

Sharp . 
Haltre d'Hdtel 
Mayonnaise 

Another 

Ravigote 
Mint . 
Mushrooms 
Mustard 
Nnpolitalne 
Onion 
Oyster 
Poulette . 
Ravigote . 
Red Currant Jelly 
Remarks on Different 

Sauces, Essences, and 

Melted Butter, page 80 
Remoolade 
liobert 
Romaine 
Salmis 
Shrimp 
Sicilian 
Suprdme 
Tartare 
Tomato • 
Truffle 
Uxelles, D* 

Stuffing 
VeloutA . 
Venison 
Yeuitienne 
Victoria 
White 



No. 
184 
191 

224 

18S 
204 

205 

159 
218 

219 

220 

22$ 

197 
223 

208 

202 

186 

179 

189 

2X5 



222 
190 
209 
199 
213 
211 
188 
221 
217 
198 

J95 

195 

153 
196 

206 

214 

158 



439 



GENERAL INDEX. 



-M- 



AliLEMANDE Sauce 
Almond Piiste . 

Blano-iuRDger 
Anchovy Butter 

Canopdi . 

Essence 

Fried. 

on Toast 
Apple Charlotte 

Fritters 

Jelly .... 

Pudding . 

Sauce 

Stewed . 

ThHj .... 
Apricot Jam . 

Dtewecl ... 
Artichokes Barigoule 

Butter Sauce 

Fried. 

Ifcalienne . 

Poivrade . 

Jerusalem, Butter Sauce 
for Qamish 
Italienne . 
Pickled . 
Artois Soup 
ABjwragus with Brown Butter 

Butter Sauce . 

Soup, Clear 

Milauaise . 

Points, for Qamish . 

Oil and Vinegar 
Aurore, Eggs k 1' . 

Trout &r . 

BABA Cake . 

Back of Hare, Italian Shari: 
S&uco 

Baked Cod Sfeuked '. 

Ham, Housewife Style 
Perch, Angler Stylo . 



No. 
156 

793 
86i 

i6i 

788 

174 
336 
787 
850 
8ia 
876 
829 
181 
841 
810 
877 
846 

754 
753 
756 

755 
756 

751 
293 
752 
75a 
62 

760 

758 

33 

759 
287 

761 

952 

481 

S81 

593 
406 

572 

493 



Baked Pike, Citixen Style 
Barbel Broiled Maitrc d'H6tel 

Remarks on, page 234 
Batter Paste, for Frying . 
Bavarois Cream Chocolate 
Cofifee. 
Komaine 
Strawberry 
Vanilla 
Beans, French . 

For Garnish 

Maitre d*H6tel 

Pur^ of • 

Saut^ 

Broad, for Garnish 

Poulette 

Puree of 

Haricot, Dried . 

for Gkimish 

Housewife Style 

B^hamel Sauce 

Another . 

Beef Boiled Countryman Style 

Croquets of 

Gratin 

Mince of 

Mironton 

Salad of . 

Sharp Sauce 

Braized k la Mode 

Citizen Style 

MUanaise • 

Napolitaine 

Brisket of, Ecjirlate 

Fillets of, Green Peas 

Indienne 

Jardiniere 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mignons with Cham 

pignons 

with Olives 



So. 

485 
500 

3*7 
864 

86a 

865 
865 
863 
770 
290 
772 
236 
771 
289 

775 
776 

773 
294 

774 

154 

»5S 

383 

385 
38a 

384 
380 

386 
381 
506 

503 

5<H 
505 
50a 
5" 
508 

509 
5" 
5" 

513 
5W 



440 



INDEX. 



4-II 





No. 




No. 


Beef, Fillets of, Pur^e of Oeler; 


' '5" 


Boiled Mackerel 


. 419 


Fillet of Steak Gb&teau* 




Mutton . . . 


. 389 


briand 


S" 


Leg of 


. 55^^ 


Kidney Pi^montaise . 


350 


Pike, Italian Sharpe Sauce 484 


k la Milanaise 


504 


Plaice • • 


• 463 


Kapolitaine 


505 


Pork, Leg of 


. 566 


Porter-House Steak . 


S17 


Salmon, Lobster Sauce 


. 390 


liemarks od, and Boasting 


Turbot, Hollandaise Sauce 398 


in general, page 241 




Turkey, Celery Sauce 


. 646 


Hound of. Boiled Eiiglisl] 


i 


Oyster Sauce 


. 647 


Style .... 


SOI 


Minced, Poached Eggs 387 


Bump Steak, Anchovy 


Napolitaine 


388 


Butter . 


S17 


Whiting 
Bonch^es k la Chasseur . 


, 44X 


Chasseur 


. 515 


. 322 


Oyster Sauce 


. 516 


of Crabs . 


. 322 


Scollops of, with Ghesnul 


b 


Financidre . 


. saa 


Puree . 


. 514 


Italienne . 


' 319 


Steak and Kidney Pie 


. 688 


of Lobster. 


. 322 


Oyster Pie . 


. 689 


Monglaa 


. 322 


Kidney Pudding 


. 702 


Oysters 


. 322 


Oyster Pudding . 


. 701 


Palermo . 


. 320 


Tea 


Z48 


Boyale 


. 321 


Beer and Wine Soup 


. 128 


Toulouse . 


. 322 


Beignet Fritters 


. 815 


Valenciennes . 


. 322 


Birds, Pudding of Small . 


 704 


Boudins of Chicken, Bichelieu , 


. 623 


Biscuits, Champagne 


. 809 


Partridge . 


. 671 


Italian 


. 808 


Pheasant . 


. 666 


Bisque of Crayfish with Bice , 


. 123 


"Bouquet Garni," or a Bunch 


Black Game Pie 


 697 


of Aromatic Herbs, page ii 


c 


Game, Boast . 


. 673 


Brains, Calf's, Fried 


330 


Pudding, Broiled 


. 366 


Omelet 


264 


BIano-mang6r, Almond . 


. 861 


Ox, Montpellier Butter 

Napolitaine 
Boebuck .... 


. 36s 


Bhinquette Sauce . 

Veal .... 


. 178 


. 364 


. 524 


 583 


Boar Cutlets, English Style 


. 574 


Braized Beef, k la Mode . 


 506 


Espagnole . 


. 575 


Citizen Style . 


. 503 


Sarde . 


. 573 


Milanaise . 


« 504 


Head, Stuffed . 


 576 


Napolitaine 


503 


Bemarks on Wild, page 27^ 


) 


Ciib1)age for Garnish . 


29s 


Boiled Beef, Countryman Styl< 


J 383 


Calf's Liver Genoise . 


. 373 


Brisket of, Ecarlate , 


. 502 


Capon Milanaise 


. 632 


Bound of. English Style 


. SOI 


Duck with Cabbage . 


• 637 


Brill 


403 


Green Peas 


 634 


Capon with Bice 


. 630 


Olives 


. 636 


Ca|>on with Tarragon 


. 631 


Ham with Stewed Peas 


• 571 


Chicken with Bice . 


619 


Kid .... 


► 557 


with Bock- salt . 


. 618 


Mutton Cutlets Jardini^e 


54' 


with Tarragon . 


617 


Pompadour 


 540 


Cod, Oyster Sauce . 


. 405 


Soubise 


. 539 


Ci-abs 


 477 


Leg of, Bretone . 


. 550 


Crawfish . 


 477 


Partridges Perigueux 


669 


Eggs .... 


. 240 


Pig's Liver 


371 


Haddock. Smoked 
Ham with Spinach . 


 458 


Turkey Italienne 


644 


 570 


Jardiui&re . 


64s 


Lobsters 


 477 


Veal, Cushion of 


' 525 



442 



INDEX. 



liiaized Veal, Hoaeewife Style 
Italienne . 
Mac^doine . 
with New Carrots 
OnioDt glased . 
Spinach . 
Stewed MnshroomB 
Stewed Peas . 
Staffed Tomatoes 
TuulouBe . 
White Haricot Beaiu 
Bread and Butter Padding 
BreadingB 

Bread liUspingi Soap 
Baspingi . 
Sauce 
Panada 
Bream, Maltre d'Hdtel 

Remarks on, page 207 
Breaat of Mutton, Broiled 
Housewife Style 
Roebuck, Lyonnaise . 
Veal, Koant 

with Stuffing . 
Brill .... 

Brioche Puste . 
Brisket of Beef Ecarlafce . 
Broad Beans for Garnish . 
Poulette 
Pur^ of 
Broiled Black Pudding . 

Boar Cutlets, English Style 

Chops of Lamb . 

Mutton 

Roebuck 

Epigrammes of Lamb with 

Asparagos-points 

Cucumber . 

French Beans 

Green Peas 

Italienne . 

Mac^oine . 

Provencale . 

Haddock, Maltre d'Hdtel 

Kidney Veal, Indienne 

Mackerel, Maltre d'H6tel 



No. 
518 

519 
52s 
525 
525 
52s 
52s 
525 
525 
52s 
525 
823 

269 
140 

268 

183 
265 

448 

546 
547 
.580 

536 

535 

403 
792 

502 

289 

775 
776 

366 

574 

545 

545 

579 

553 

553 

553 

553 

554 

553 

553 

453 

349 
420 



Mullet, Grey,Maltred'Hdtel 439 



Mullet, Red, Maltre d 

Mutton Cutlets 
Bread-crumbed 
Maintenon . 

Pig's Feet Genoise 
St. Menehould 

Pigeons, Crapandine 



H6tel 435 

543 
544 
542 
368 

367 
655 



Pork Cutlets, Gherkin Sauce 558 



Broiled Salmon Cutlets, In 
dienne 

Tartare Sauce 
Siiusages . 
Sheep s Kidney . 
Sprats 
Tomatoes . 
Trout, HoUandaise Sauce 
Veal Cutlets, Plain 

Tomato Sauce 
Whiting . 
Broth or Consomm^ 
Chicken . 
Condensed, or Glace 
for Coniraleseents and 

Children . 
Crayfish . 
Fish . 

Another 
Frog . 

Game Chanear. 
Game 
How to Make, in a few 

Minutes 
Mutton or Scotch 
Partridge . 
Rabbit Proven9ale 
Refreshing 

Snail, for Obstinate Cough 
Veal . 
Vegetables 

Another 
Brown Bread and Butter Pud 

ding 
Brunoise Soup . 
Brussels Sprouts, Boiled 

Boiled with Butter 
for Garnish . 
Bunch or '* Bouquet Garni, 

psge II 
Butter, AnchoTy 

Cayenne and Curry 
Clarified . 
Crayfish or Lobster 
Horse-radish 
and Ketchup Sauce 
Maltre d'HAtel . 
Melted 
Montpellier 
Noir or Brown . 
P^rip^ord . 
Ravigote . 
Sauce 

for Asparagus 
Truffle 



No. 

394 
393 
376 

345 

473 
780 

483 
532 
532 
422 

a 

7 
16 

137 

29 

25 
26 

27 

10 

II 

13 
136 

9 
8 

12 

149 
6 

30 
31 

82a 

17 

737 

738 
291 



161 

168 

160 

169 

16s 
177 

226 

176 

163 

164 

167 

i6a 

157 
216 

166 



INDEX. 



443 



CABBAGE, BiHled 
Braized for Garnish 
Country Stjle 
Soup . 

Milanaise 
and Bice Soup 
Bed. Stewed 
Stuffed 
Cabinet Pudding 
Cake^ Baba 
Genoese . 
Ginger 
IfNdeleinei 
Parisian . 
Plain Seed 
Plum . 
Pound 
Bice . 
Savarin 
Savoy 
Spanish 
victoria . 
Calf's Brains, Fried Citisen 
Style 

and Liver 

Italienne 

Milanaise 
Ucjul, Devilled Sauoe 

Italian Siiuoe 

Oil and Vinegar 

Bavigote Sauoe 

Sharp Sauce 

Tomato Sauce 
Liver, Braised, Genoise 

Citisen Style 

Forcemeat . 

Fried Milanaise 

Palermo 

Venitienne . 
Feet, Italian Sauoe 
Foot Jelly, Plain 
Tail Soup, Indienne 
Canap^, Anchovy . 
Smoked Herring 
Ca|K>n Boiled with Bloe 

with Tarragon 
Braized Milanaise 
Citizen Style • 
Lucullus . 
Napolitaine 
Pi^montaiae 
Caper Sauce 
Caramel, or Burnt Sugar, 

page Z2 
Carp Bourgignone . 



No. 
728 

29s 
729 

34 

35 
103 

296 

730 
818 
801 
802 
H03 
805 

795 
798 

797 

799 
806 

800 

796 

794 

330 

329 
328 

331 
355 
355 
355 
355 
355 
355 
373 
374 
274 
331 
333 
375 
356 
227 

133 
788 

789 

630 

631 

632 

629 

628 

626 

627 

»93 



494 



Carp, Fried • 

Perigueux . 

Bemarks on, page 231 

Sicilienne . 

Stewed, English Stvle 
Carrots, Housewife Style 

Italienne . 

Kew, for Garnish 
Soup . 

Pnr^ or . . . 236, 
Cases, Bed Mullet in 
Cauliflowers, Bechamel 

Boiled, Butter Sauce 

Fried. 

for Garnish 

Genoise 

au Gratin . 

Parmesan Cheese 

Pur^e of . 
Caviare, aee Bemarks on Horu 

d auvres, page 145 
Celery, with Beef-Marrow 

Gratin 

Gravy 

for Garnish 

Pur^e of . 
Champagne Biscuits 
Chantilly Soup 
Charlotte, Apple 

Pears 
Chate&ubriand Steak 
Cheek, Ox, Italienne 

Ox, with Pur6e of Vege 
tables . 
Cheese, Omelet 

Another . 

Souffle 
Cherries, Stewed • 
Cherry Water, Iced . 
Chesnuts for Garnish 

Pudding . 

Pur^ 

and Bice Soup . 
Chicken Boiled with Bice 
Bock-salt . 
Tarragon . 

Boudins Bichelien . 

Broth or Cunsommd . 

Currv of . 

Devilled Sauce . 

Essence of . 

Foroemeat for Garnish 
Another 

Fritot Italienne 
Milanaise . 



Na 
496 

495 

498 
497 

743 
742 

283 

41 

744 

438 

730 

731 

73a 
292 

735 

734 

733 
236 



746 

747 
282 

236 
8u9 

49 
8 so 

851 
5" 

359 

358 
260 
261 

837 
847 

876 

278 

819 

237 
124 

619 

6x8 

617 

623 

610 
6x6 

173 
371 

272 
614 

615 



444 



INDEX. 





Ko. 


• 


No, 


Chicken, Galantine of 


. 706 


Conger Eels, Boast . 


. 46s 


Gravy 


. 18 


Oonsomm^ or Broth 


2 


liiver. . . 


. 301 


of Chicken 


7 


Mayonnaise Sauce 


. 621 


for Children or Con- 




Pancakes of 


. 62s 


valescents . 


• »37 


Pie .... 


• 693 


with Poached Eggs Sty 




PunSe Soup . . 
Quenelles Toulouse . 


. 64 


rienne 


• 131 


. 624 


Another 


. 13a 


Soup . 


72 


Coquilles k la Chasseur . 


. 324 


Rissoles of . 


. 32s 


Cod . 


. 410 


Roast 


. 620 


Turbot 


. 40a 


Stewed Africaiue 


. 609 


Court Bouillon for Fish . 


• 393 


Chasseur . 


. 606 


Crabs Boiled . 


• 477 


Housewife Style 


. 605 


Crayfish, Bisque of . 


. 123 


Marengo . 


. 603 


Broth . 


. 29 


Mushrooms 


. 604 


Butter . 


. 169 


Mussels 


. 611 


Crawfish, Boiled 


• 477 


Piemontaise 


. 613 


Cream Chocolate Bavnrois 


. 864 


Proven^le . 


. 608 


Coffee Bavarois 


. 862 


with Risotto 


. 602 


Roniaine Bavarois 


. 866 


Sioilienne . 


6t2 


Strawberry Bavai'ois . 


 865 


Sandwiches 


. 786 


Vanilla Bavarois 


863 


T^rtare Sauce . 


. 622 


Ice, Chocolate . 


. 871 


Chocolate Bavarois Cream 


. 864 


Coffee 


. 872 


Cream Ice . 


. 871 


Currants . 


. 873 


Custard 


. 853 


Lemon 


871 


Souffle . . . . 


. 833 


Raspberry . 


. 873 


Civet of Hare . . . , 


590 


Strawberry 


. 873 


Clarified Butter 


, 160 


VanUla . 


. 871 


Syrup for Jellies and Ices 


856 


Crepinettes with Mashed Pota 




Clarifying Broth . 


2 


toes. 


' 378 


Clermont Soup 
Cocks-Combs for Garnish 


47 


Rice . . . . 


378 


303 


Tomato Sauce 


378 


Cock a Leekie Soup . 


13s 


Creoy Soup . . . , 


24 


Cod i la Crdrae Gratin . 


409 


Oromeskis k la Russe 


3*7 


Coqnillesof 


410 


Croquets of Cod 


410 


Croquets . . . . 


410 


Lobster 


326 


Genoise . . . . 


408 


Potatoes 


720 


Indienne . . . . 


407 


Salmon 


395 


Mayonnaise 


410 


Turbot 


40a 


Oyster Sauce . 


405 


Croustade k la Toulouse • 


3«3 


Remarks on, page 128 




Croutons for Soup and Garnish 


24 


Stuffed and Baked . 


406 


Cucumber for Garnish . 


285 


Siilt, Black Butter . 


4" 


Sauce . . . . 


203 


Egg Sauce . 


411 


Currant Iced Cream 


873 


Maltre d'H6tel . 


411 


Jelly 


879 


Melted Butter . 


411 


Sauce . . . . 


215 


C«)ffoe, Buvarois Cronn . 


862 


Curry or Cayenne Butter 


168 


Cream, Iced 


872 


Curry of Chicken 


610 


Custnrd . . . . 


852 


Rabbit 


598 


Suuffl*^ . . . . 


835 


Prawns for Garnish . 


305 


Collared Eels . . . . 


470 


Custards, Chocolate 


853 


Cond^ Soup . . . . 


23 


Coffee . . . . 


85a 


Conger Eels, Maltre d'Hdtel . 
Remarks on, iiage 213 


464 


Plain 


840 




Cutlets, Boar, English Style . 


574 



INDEX. 



445 



Outleta, EspAgnole 

Sarde . 
Lamb. • 
Mutton, AsparAgus-poiiita 
Bread-crumlM 

with Cucumber . 

French Beans 

Italian ne • 

Jardini&re . 

MacMoine . 

Maintenon . 

Mattre d'H6tel . 

Milanaiae . 

Pompadour 

Pur6e of Oliemuts 

Sonbise 

Stewed Mushrooms 
Peas . 
Pigeons Mac^oine . 
Pork, Gherkin Saaoe 

Indienne . 

Mikknajse 



with Pur^ of Ohesuuts 561 



Stuffing 
Boebuck Chasseur . 

Surprise 
Salmon Indienne 
Veal Broiled Plain 

Tomato Sauce . 

and Ham  

Italienne . 

Milanaise . 

Papillote . 

Pur^ of Sorrel . 
Cygnet, Boast . . 

DABS, Fried 
Dawn Soup 
Devilled Sauce . 
Duck Braized with Cabbage 
Green Peas • 
Olives . 
Roast 
Stewed, Green Peas . 

Turnips 
Wild, Boast 
Salmis of . 

EELS. Collared . 

Fillets of Fried, Tnrtare 

Sauce • 
Matelotte . 
Maltre d'H6tel 
Milanaise • 



No. 
575 
573 
537 
537 
544 
537 
537 
537 
541 
537 
54a 
543 
538 
540 
537 
539 
537 
537 
654 
558 
563 

559 



560 

577 

578 

394 

531 

53a 
528 

530 
529 
531 
527 
559 

463 

77 
201 

637 

634 
636 

638 

633 

635 
683 

684 



470 

469 
467 
464 
468 



Eels, Conger, Remarks on, page 

313 
Fresh-water, Remarks on, 

page 314 
Ronst 

Stewed, English Style 
Eggs ik TAurore • 
Boiled • 
Brouill6s with Asparagus 

points 
with Brown Butter . 

Cream and Butter 
Danphine . 
Fried. 
Gratin 
an Plat 

with Tomatoes . 
Poached • • 
Remarks on, page 112 
with Sauoe 
Sauce 

Snow with Custard . 
Soup .... 

Poached, Styrienno 
Another • 
Endive Pur^ for Garnish 
Salad. • . 
Soup .... 
Epigrammes of Lamb with 
Asparagus-points 

Cucumber . . 

French Beans 

Green Peas . 

Italian Style 

MaoMoine . 

Proven^ale . 
Espagnole Sauoe 

Another 
Essence of Anchovies 

Chicken 

Fiih • 

Game . 

Mushrooms . 

Truffles 

FAMILY Stock . 
Feet, Calf's, with Italian Sauce 
Pig's, k la Genoise • 

k la Ste. Menehonld 
Sheep's, with Oil and 
Vinegar • 
Fennel Sauce . . 
Fillets of Beef Chami)ignons 
Green Peas • 
Indian Style • 



No. 



4^5 
466 

252 

340 

248 
341 

343 

351 

343 

250 
244 
246 

24s 

249 

183 

840 

60 

131 

13a 
236 

785 
46 

553 

553 

553 

553 

554 

553 

555 

151 

»5a 

174 

173 

175 
172 

171 

170 

3 

356 
368 

367 

354 
194 

513 
5" 

508 



446 



INDEX. 



No. 



No. 



FUIeU of Beef Janlini^ 


509 


Fresh Meat, Boiled . 


. 379 


Jenualem Artichokes 


511 


FriGaaste of Chicken 


607 


Maihed Potatoes 


5" 


Fritters, Apple 


, 8t3 


Bfignona with Oham- 




Beignets 


. 815 


pignons 


513 


Orange . . . , 


814 


OlWee. 


S»o 


Fritters, Pina-apple 

Frittot of Chicken Italienne . 


813 


Par^ of Celery . 


5" 


614 


OhAteaubriand . 


512 


Milanaise . 


6IS 


Eels, Fried, Tartaie 


 


Frog Broth . . . . 


. 27 


Sauce 


. 469 


Pur^ of . . 


28 


Haddock, Citisen Siyl 


ie 457 


Frait, Stewed Apples 


. 841 


Hare Laided, Yenison j 


Apricots 


846 


Saaoe . 


59a 


Cherries 


847 


Mackerel YenitieniM . 


422 


French Drie<l Plums . 


849 


Perch Italienne . 


491 


and Rii e 


. 848 


Romaine 


. 492 


Greengages . 


. 844 


Venitienne . 


490 


Mirabelle Plums 


. 845 


Soles LiTOurnaise 


430 


Pears . . . . 


. 84a 


Yenitieiine . 


432 


Pudding, Iced . 


. 874 


Turbot Indienne 


' 399 


Frying, Remarks on, page 142 




ItMlienne . 


. 400 






Veal, or Ousliion «if 


• 525 






WhiUng, Citizen Styli 


a 445 


OAI.ANTINS of Chicken 


706 


Italienoe 


> 443 


Turkey 


. 706 


Venitienne . 


. 444 


Veal and Ham . 


. 705 


Financi^re Sauce 


. 187 


Game Broth Chasseur 


ID 


Fine Herbs .... 


• 195 


Another 


II 


Fish Broth .... 


25 


Essence 


172 


Another .... 


. 96 


Forcemeat of 


• 273 


Essence of . 


. 175 


Gravy 


19 


Forcemeat uf Itiiw . 


• 275 


Pie in Mould . 


. 699 


Another .... 


. 276 


Pur^ Soup 


. 64 


Gravy .... 


20 


Quenelles of 


. 72 


Omelet .... 


. 257 


Remarks on, page 329 




Remarks on, page i8i 




Garnishes — 




Flounders .... 


. 463 


Atparagus-points 


. 287 


Foot, CalPs, Jelly, Plain . 


. 227 


Broad Beans 


. 989 


Forcemeat, Calf's Liver . 


. 274 


Brussels Sprouts 


. 291 


Chicken . 


. 271 


Cabbage Braized 


. 295 


Another 


, 27a 


Red Stewerl 




Fish, Kaw .... 


. 275 


Carrots, New 


. 283 


Another 


, 276 


Cauliflowers 


. 292 


Game .... 


. 273 


Celery . . . . 


, 38a 


Lobster 


. 277 


Chesnuts . . . , 


. 278 


Veal 


, 270 


Chicken Liver . 


. 3<H 


Another 


> 270a 


Cooks-combs 


• 303 


Fowl, Guinea, Housewife Styl< 


J 657 


Cuoumber . . . . 


. 28s 


Boast . 


. 658 


French Beans . « 


. 290 


Pea, Roast i 


» 660 


Haricot Beans, White 


• 294 


Freeze Ices, How to . 


. 868 


Jerusalem Artiohokes 


• 293 


French Beans .... 


. 770 


Lettuces . • . . 


, 279 


for Garnish . , 


. 290 


BlaoMoine B^hamel 


281 


Maitre d'Hotel . 


772 


Mushrooms 


. 301 


Santas 


. 771 


with Wine . 


> 302 


Fresh Dried Plums, Stewed . 


849 


Mussels . • • . 


306 



INDEX. 



447 



No. 



GarnisheB— 




OuioDB, Button, Glaxed | 


for Matelotte . 


288 


Glaced 


880 


. Peas, Stewed 


286 


Prawns with Curry . 


305 


Remarks on, in genera], and | 


on Truffles and Mash* 




rooms in {Mtftienlar, | 


page 128 




Sanerkraut 


297 


French 


298 


Truffles in Champagne . 


300 


in Olase 


299 


in Madeira . . 


300 


in Sherry . . . 


^ 


Turnips . . . < 


284 


Genoese Otke .... 


802 


Genoise Sauce .... 


ao7 


Gerfnan Quenelles Soup . 


74 


Gherkin Sauce .... 


192 


Giblet Omelet ... 1 


) 264 


Pie 


694 


Soup • . . . « 

Turkey, Housewife Style . 

Ginger Cake .... 


130 


651 


. 803 


Glaze, How to Frepnic 


362 


How to Glaze Meat . 


362 


Gnochetti with Butter . 


► 99 


Goose Allemande 


> 642 


Navarin .... 


. 641 


Roast 


. 639 


Stewed with Chesnuts 


640 


Tomatoes . 


. 643 


Gooseberry Sauce 


. 180 


Gratin Boiled Beef . 


. 382 


Cauliflowers 


• 734 


Celery 


. 746 


Cod k la Ctdn](< . 


. 409 


Eggs .... 


. 250 


Haddock . 


. 455 


Macaroni . 


, 9a 


Mushroom 8 


. 781 


Perch 


, 489 


Potatoes 


. 716 


Rice .... 


. 120 


Smelts 


. 471 


Soles 


. 4^8 


Sprats 


• 475 


Sturgeon . 


. 415 


Turbot Crenni . 


. 40X 


Gravy, Chicken 


. 18 


Fish .... 


20 


Game 


. 19 


Soap .... 


► 5 



Gravy, Vegetable . • 
Greengages, Stewed . 
Green Peas Anglaise 
Fran^aise . 
Stewed with Ham 
Pea Pur^ . 
Par6e Soup 
Soup • 
Grouse, Roast . 
Guinea-Fuwl, Housewife Style 

Roast . • 
Gurnard Genoise 
Indienne . 



HADDOCK, Freeb, Broiled 
Maltre d'H6tel . 

Egg Sauce . 

Fillets of, Citizen St^le 

Fried, Batter Saaoe . 

k ritalienne 

au Gratin . 

Remarks on, page 209 

Smoked . . 

Citizen Style . 
Halibut, Oyster Sauce 
Halibut, Biemarks on, page 212 
Ham, Baked, Housewife Style 

Boiled with Spinach . 

Braized with Stewed Peas 

Sandwiches 
Hare, Back of, with Sharp 
Italian Sauce 

Civet of . . . 

Fillets of. Larded, Yonisun 
Sauce . * 

Jngged 

Potted 

Remarks ou, page 290 

Roast 

Sauce 

Soup, English Style . 

k la Susinoise 

Haricot Beans, Garnish of 

White. 
Haricot of Mutton . 
^ Purte Soup of 

Pried 

Dried, Housewife Style 
Hashed Venison 



Herrings, Fresh, Mustard Sauce 460 



Fried with Plain Batter 
Remarks on, page 212 
Snu>ked . 
Hollanaaiie Saace . 



No. 
21 
844 
767 
769 
768 
232 

50 

40 

672 

657 

658 

446 
447 



453 
45a 
457 
457 
454 
455 

458 

459 

462 

572 

570 

571 
786 

593 
590 

592 

589 
707 

594 
200 

68 
67 

294 

540 

53 

773 

774 
588 



461 

789 
184 



448 



INDEX. 



No. 



Hon d'CEavroB, or Side Dishes, 




BemarkB on, page 145 




Horse-radish Butter 


165 


Sauce . . . . 


191 


Cold . . . . 


224 


How to Glaze Meat . 


36a 


How to Make Sausages . 


376 


How to Prepare Glaze 


36a 


lOKD Chocolate Cream 


. 871 


Coffee Cream 


872 


Currant Cream . 


873 


Fmit Pudding . 


. 874 


Lemon Cream . 


871 


Water 


869 


Nesselrode Padding . 


. 87s 


Kaspberiy Cream 


 873 


Strawberry Cream 


873 


Vanilla . 


. 871 


Ices, Cherry Water . 


. 870 


Indian Sauce . 


. 185 


Italian Sauce . 


 ao4 


Sharp Sauce 


• 305 


JAU, Apricot 


. 877 


Jellies, Lemon . 


. 857 


Madeira . . . . 


. 860 


Orange 


. 859 


Strawberry 


. 858 


Jelly, Preserved Apple . 


. 876 


Currant 


. 879 


Quince • 


. 878 


Calf's Foot, Plain . 


227 


Simple 


. ISO 


Jerusalem Artichokes, Buttei 


r 


Sauce . 


• 7S^ 


Artichokes, Garnish of 


, 293 


Italian 


. 7Sa 


Pickled 


. 7S» 


Pur6e of 


' ^39 


John Dory 
Jugged Hare . 


 404 


. 589 


Venison 


• 584 


Julienne Soup . 


14 


mRTOHUP and Buttei 


p 


Sauce 


. 177 


Kid, Braized . 


• 557 


Kidney, Beef, Milanaise . 


. 504 


Napolitaine 


. 505 


Pi^montaise 


. 350 


Sheep's, Chasseur . 
Grilled 


• 347 

• 345 


Stewed with Fin< 


B 


Herbs . • 


. 346 



Ka 
Kidneys, Veal, Broiled k I'ln- 

dienne . . . 349 

Stewed k la Komaine . 348 
Kitchen Utensils, List of, page 

432 

LAMB Chops -545 

Cutlets • • • • 537 
Epigrammes of, with 

Asparagus-points 553 

with Cucumber . . 553 

French Beans . 553 

Green Peai . . 553 

Italian Style . 454 

MaoMoine . . 553 

k la Proven^ale . . 555 

Quarter of, Roast . . 556 

Remarks on Roast, page 269 

Lamprey BordeUuse . 450 

Citizen Style . . . 451 

ICatelotte of . . . 449 

Remarks on, page 207 

Larks, Housewife Style . . 681 

Pie 696 

Potted .... 707 

Roast .... 681 

Leek Soup .... 38 

Lemon Cream Ice . . 871 

Jelly 857 

Water .... 869 

Lentils, Housewife Style . 778 

Maltre d'H6tel ... 779 

Pur^ of . . 234 

Pur^ Soup of . • 53 

Lettuce, Garnish of . . 279 

Soup of . '43 

Stuffed Soup of • • 43 

Leveret k la Chasseur . 591 

List of Utensils required for a 

Family of Six Persons, 

, I«ge 432 

LombardoSoup ... 58 

Lobster Boiled .... 477 

ftTAmericaine . . 478 

Forcemeat of . . . 277 

Remarks on, page 221 

Sajice .... 212 

Loin of Mutton, Roast . 552 

Pork, Roast . . 565 

MAOABONI Cardinale . 86 

Cheese with ... 88 

Citizen Style ... 90 

Country Style ... 93 
Dominicaine it la . •87 



INDEX. 



449 



Macftroni, Qratin au 

How to Cook, Bee Remarks 



on, page 49 



Batter 



Italian Style 

Milanaise il la . 

MoQglat 4 la 

Napolitaine k la 

Palermo k la 

Pliiin . 

Reine Ik la . 

Kemarka on, and Piiste 
of all Desci iptions, and 
How to Cook it, page 49 

Sarde k\A , 
Mac^oine B^hamel, Qarniah of 
Mackerel Boiled 

BroUed Mattre d'Hdtel 

Fillets of, Venitienne 

Qenoise 

Bemarks on, page 195 

Stewed 
Madeira Jelly . 
Madeleine Cake 
Maitre d'H6tel Batter 

Sauce . 
Mnnor-House Soap . 
Marrow, Vegetable, 
Sauce . 
Housewife Style 
Italienne « 
Mashed Potatoes 
Mayonnaise Saaoe . 

Bavigote Sauce 
Meat, Fresh, Boiled 

Boiled, Bemarks on, page 9 
Melted Butter Sauce 
Meringues 

with Jelly 

Whipped Cream 
Mince-Meat « 

Pies . 
Minced Beef 

Mutton 

Veal with Poached Eggs 
Miiiestroiio 
Mint Sauce 

Mii-abelle Plums, Stewed 
Mock Turtle Soup . 
Blode of Preparing ^Sweet- 
Brcftil, Bmins, LiVer, and 
Scollops of Veal, page 150 
Modena Soup .... 
Montpellier Butter . 
Mallets, Grey, Qenoise Sauce . 
Hollandaise Sauce 



No. 
9a 



89 

94 

85 

91 

83 
81 

84 



82 
281 
419 
420 
43a 

431 

423 
860 

80s 

326 

159 
39 



748 

749 

750 
709 

2x8, 319 

230 

379 



176 
867 
867 
867 

854 
85s 
384 
548 

387 
106 

225 

845 
65 



54 
163 

439 
439 



Mullets, Italienne . 

Maitre d'HAtel . 
Tomato Sauce 
Bed, k la Genoiae 
in Gasea 
Italienne 
Maitre d'H6tel . 
Remarks on Red and Grey, 
page ao3 
Mushrooms Bordelaiae 
Essence of . 
Gratin 
Milanaise . 
Remarks on, page 381 
Sauce 
Garnish of . 
with Wine, Garnish of 
MusseU, Garnish of . 
Aluatard Sauce • . 
Mutton, Boiled . 
Breast Broiled . 

Housewife Style 

Chops ... 

Cutlets, with Asparagos- 

points . 

with Bread-crumbs 

Cucumber . 

French Beans 

Italienne • 

Jardiniere . 

Mao6doine . 

Maintenon . 

Maitre d'HOtel . 

Milanaise . 

Pompadour 

with Pur^e of Ches 

nuts . 
Soabise . 
with Stewed Mush 

rooms . 
with Stewed Peas 
Haricot of . 
Leg of, Boiled . 

Braized Bretonne 
RoHst . • 
Loin of Roast . 
Minced . . 
Pie . 

Remarks on, page 259 
Saddle of. Roast 
Shoulder of 

NAPOLITAINE Sanoe 
Navarin Soup . 
New Carrots Soup . 

2 F 



No. 
439 
439 
439 
437 
438 
436 
435 



782 
171 
781 

783 

197 
301 

30a 
306 
223 

389 
546 
547 
545 

537 
544 
537 
537 
537 
541 
537 
542 
543 
538 
540 

537 
539 

537 
537 
549 
551 
550 
553 
553 
548 
691 

552 
558 

208 

63 
41 



4SO 



INDEX, 



New Oanota, Qftmish of . 
Noir or Brown Batter 

OBSEBVATIOK with re- 

epeet to French Words in 

Billi of Fare, page 141 

Omelet witii Articnokea . 

Aaparagni-points 

Braini 

Cheeae 

Another 
Fiah • 
Oibleta 
Ham or Bacon 
Jam • 
Kidneya 
Muihroomi 
Onion, 
Oyatera 
Paraley 
Poaa • 
Pi6montaiae 
with Kum . 
Sorrel 
Spinach 
Soufflee 

with Tomatoes . 
Truffles 

Onions, Batter, Olaxed for 
Matelotte 
Gland 

Remarks on, page 382 
Saaoe 

Soap k la Ljonnaise . 
Blaigre 
Stewed 
Orange Fritters 

Jelly .... 
Oz-Brain, Montpellier Batter 

Napolitaine 
Ox-Oheek Italienne . 

with Par^ of Vegetables 
Oz-Palate, Fried 
Ox-Tail Soup . 
Ox -Tongue, Fresh, with 
Gherkin Sauce 



No. 
383 
164 



Pickled, Madeira Sauce 361 



Sandwiches 
Oysters, Bouchdes of 

Fried 

Salpioon of 
Oyster Sauce . 

Soap . 

PANADA, Bread 



259 
264 
264 
260 
261 

257 
264 

254 

839 
258 

264 

25s 
262 

253 
264 

263 

838 

264 

264 

832 

256 

264 

288 
280 

202 
78 

79 
784 

814 

859 
365 
364 
359 
358 

357 
66 

366 



786 
322 

335 

313 
z86 

127 
265 



Panada, Rice . • 

Semolina . 
Pancakes , . 

Chicken 

with Jam . 
Pap Soup A la Reine • 
Simple . • 
Parisian Cake . 
Partridges, Boadins of . 

Braised A la Perigaeux 

Pie ... . 

Quenelles of 

Roast 

Salmis of . 

Stewed with Cabbage 
Paste, Almond. 

Batter for FVying 

for Brioche 

Italian with Broth or Milk 

Short, for Raised Pies 

Short, for Tarts 

for Sponge and BiBcoits 

Ordinary, for Tagliatelli 

and Sweet Dithes, Re- 
marks on, page 387 

of all Description, Remarks 
on, and How to Cook 

it. I»ge 49 
Patties, Hot . 

Pea-Fowl, Roast 

Pea, Green, Soap 

Pearl-Barley . 

Pears, Charlotte of 

Stewed 

Peas, Dry, Purie of 

Green. Pur€e of 

A i'Anglaise 

A la Fran^ise 

Stewed, for Garnishes 

Stewed with Ham 

Peroh, Baked, Angler Style 

Fillets of, 4 1'ltaUenne 

A la Bomaine 

k la Yenitienne 

Fried . 

Gardener Style . 

au Gratin . 

Remarks on, page 229 

Perigord Batter 

Pheasant, Boudins of 

Housewife Style 

k la Milanaise . 

k la Napolitaine 

Quenelles of 



Mo. 
266 

267 
830 

625 
831 
139 
138 

795 
671 
669 

697 
671 
670 
667 
668 

793 
317 
792 

147 
790 

791 

807 

95 



318 

660 

40 

126 

851 
842 

233 
232 

767 

769 

286 

768 

493 
491 
492 

490 

487 
488 

489 

167 
666 

662 

664 

663 
666 



Roast, Stuffed with Truffles 665 



INDEX. 



451 



Pheaaani, Salzni of • 
Pickled Jeranlexn Artichokes 
SftliDon • • • 



Oz-Tongne, Madeira Sauce 361 



Pie, Beef-Steak and Kidney 

and OjBter . 
Black Game 
Ohicken . 
Game, in Mould 
Giblet 

Lark .... 
Mutton • • • 
Partridge . . . 
Pigeon 

Pork, in Mould 
Rabbit 

Snipe. ... 
Veal and Ham . 
Pigeon's Outlets Mac6doine 
il la Orapaudine 
Pie .... 
Boast 
Stewed, with Grean Peas 

Mushrooms. 
Wild. 
Pig's Ears with Pur6e of Lentils 

ik la Venitienne . 
Liver, Braized . 

Pounded . 
Feet k la Genoise 

Ste. Menehould . 
Sucking, k I'ltalienne 

k la Proven^ale . 

Boast 
Pike. Baked, Gitisen Style 



Boiled, Italian Sharp Sauce 484 

It la Lyonnaise . . . 483 

Quenelles of . . . 486 

Remarks on, page 225 
Pine-apple Fritters . . .813 

Plaice and Flounders . . 463 

Remarks on, page 2x3 

Plain Seedcake . . . 798 

Plqyers, Boast 677 

Plum Cake .... 797 

Stewed .... 843 

Polenta Pi^montaise . . 100 

Napolitaine . . . xoi 

Polish Soup .... 22 

Polonaise Soup . 134 

Pork, Cutlets of, Gherkin Sauce 558 

itrindienne . . 562 

k la Milanaise . . 559 

with Pur^e of Chesnuts 561 

Stuffing . . 560 



No. 
66x 

752 
397 



688 

689 

697 

693 
699 

694 
696 
69X 
697 
692 
700 

69s 
69S 

690 
654 

692 

656 
652 

653 
677 

370 
3^ 
371 
37a 
368 

367 

569 
568 

567 
485 



Pork, Leg of Boiled . • 
Roast . • • 

Loin of Roast . 

Keck of Roast . 

Pie in Mould . 

Remarks on, page 271 
Porter-House Steak 
Potatoes i la Beaufort 

k Ik B6chamel . 

Chipped, Fried . 

with Cream 

Croquets . 

ftlai>uchesse . 

Fried .... 
Souffle . 

an Gratin . 

k ritalienne 

lb la Lyonnaise . 

& la Maltre d'H6tel . 

Mashed, • 

New, with Butter . 

Faille 

Proyen9ale 

Saut^es . 

Savoisienne 

Souffle of . 
Potato Flour Soup . 
Potato Swiss Soup . 
Potted Hare . 

Larks. 

Rabbit 
Poularde .... 
Poulette Sauce . . , 
Poultry, Remarks on, page 298 
Pound Cake 
Prawns with Curry, for Garnish 
Preserved Jelly 
Pudding (Meat), Beef-steak and 
Kidney 

Beef-steak and Oyster 

Bird, Small 
- Black 

Mutton 

(Sweet) Apple . 

Bread and Butter 

Brown Bread and Butter 

Cabinet 

Chesnut . 

College 

Iced Fruit . 

Ginger 

Gooseberry 

Lemon 

Nesselrode 

Plum . 



No. 

566 

565 

564 

563 
700 

517 
7x9 

7^S 
723 
7x1 
720 
721 
722 

725 
716 

714 
713 
7x0 
709 
727 
724 
7x8 
7x2 
717 
726 
X44 
76 
707 
707 
707 
632 
X79 

799 

305 
876 

702 
701 
704 
366 

703 
829 

822 

8x6 

818 

8x9 

823 

874 

820 

828 

821 

87s 
826 



452 



INDEX. 



No. 

Padding, Bice . . . .825 

Eoly-Poly .... 827 

Semolina . . . .817 

Tapioca .... 824 

Purie of Carrots . 236 

Cauliflower. . . 336 

Celery . . . 236 

Chesnuts . . . 237 

Endive . . . 736 

French Beans . . 236 

Jerusalem Artix;liokea 239 

Lentils . . 234 

Peas, Dry . -333 

Green . . . 232 
Potatoes . . .331 

Sorrel. . . . 238 

Sonbise . . . 229 

Spinach . . . 236 

l\)matoes . . 228 

Turnips , . . 235 

Vegetables . . . 230 
Crayfish Soup.or Bisque 

of. . , .123 

Chicken Soup . . 64 

Creoy Soup . . 24 

Frog Soup ... 28 

Game Soup ... 64 

Green Peas Suup . 50 

Lentils Soup . . 52 
Potatoes and Cherril 

Soup ... 48 

k la Beiue Soup . . 61 

Turnips Soup . . 37 
White Haricot Benns 

Soup ... S3 

QUAILS H la Jardiniere . 679 

Roflst 678 

Quarter of Lamb, Roast . . 556 
Quenelles of Chicken A hi 

Toulouse . . 624 

Partridges . . . 671 

Pheasants . . . 666 

Pikes .... 486 

Rabbit . . . 624 

Chicken Soup ... 72 

Game Soup ... 72 

German Soup ... 74 

Potato Soup ... 71 

& la Reine Soup . . .75 

Rice Soup .... 69 

Vegetable Soup ... 70 

Venitienne • • • 73 

Quince Jelly . . • • 878 



BABBIT h la Chasseur 

Curry of . 

Napolitaine & la 

Pie . • . 

Potted . 

Poulette k la 

ProyenQale k la . 

Remarks on, page 294 

Roost 

Stewed 

Broth k la Proven^ale 
Raspberry Cream Ice 
Ravigote Butter 

Sauoe 

Mayonnaise Sauce 
Ravioli k I'ltalienne 

k la Romaine . 
Red Currant Jelly Sauce 
Red Mullets k la Genoise 
in Cases 
k ritalienne 
k la Maltre d'Hdtel 
Refreshing Broth . 
Remarks on Barbel, page 334 

Beef and Roasting in Gene- 
ral, page 241 

Boar, page 279 

Boiled Meat, page 9 

Bream, page 307 

Carp, page 231 

Cod, pa«^e 188 

DifiPerent Sauces, Esseneeiy 
Melted Butter and Jel- 
lies, page 80 

Eels, Conger, page 213 
Fresb- Water, page 214 

Fish, page 181 

Frying, page 143 

Game, page 329 

Garnishes in General, and 
on Truffles and Mush- 
rooms in particular, 
p»ge 128 

Haddock, page, 209 

Halibut, page 212 

Hare, page 290 

Herrings, page 212 

Hors d'CEuvres or Side 
Dishes, page 145 

Lamb, page 259 

I«amprey, page 207 

Lobsters, Crabs and Craw« 
fish, and How to Boil 
them, page 221 



596 
S9« 
599 
69s 
707 
600 

597 

60X 

595 
8 

873 
162 

189 

220 

97 
98 

21S 

437 
438 

436 

435 

13 



INDEX. 



453 



No. 
Eemarka on Mackerel, page 

195 
Mullets, Red and Grej, 

page ao3 
Mushrooms, page 381 
Mutton, Lamo, and Goat, 

pRge207 
New Zealand Mutton and 

American Beef, page 8 
Onions, page 382 
Paiste and Sweet Dishes, 

Sage 387 
, page 229 

Pike or Jack, pnge 225 

Plaice, Flounders, &c., 
page 213 

Pork, page 271 

Poultry, page 296 

Babbit, page 294 

Bice, page 61 

Boasting, page 241 

Salad, page 383 

Salmon, page 182 

Sandwiches, page 384 

Sausages, page 174 

Smelts, page 218 

Soles, page 197 

Sprats, page 220 

Sturgeon, page 191 

Tripe, page 156 

Trout, page 223 

Turbo t, page 186 

Veal, page 248 

Vegetables, page 356 

Venison, page 284 

Whitebait, |>age 219 

Whiting, page 204 
Remoulade Sauce . . . 222 
Bice, Boiled, for Stewed Fruit 848 

103 
808 
118 
1X6 
124 
146 
117 

Z20 
122 
266 
119 
102 
ZO4 
825 



and Cabbage Soup 

Cake ' 

Cream Soup & la Chasseur 

k la Beale Soup 
and Chesnnt Soup 
Flour Soup 
& la Fran^aise Soup 
au Gratin Soup . 
with Milk Soup. 
Panada 

Pheasant Soup 

Plain Broth 

Potatoe Soup 

Pudding 

Bemarka onj page 61 
Souffle of • 



837 



Rice, Vegetable Soap 
Risotto ii la Chasseur 
Genoa Style , 
Italian Style 

Another 
Housewife Style 
Milanaise . 
k la Pi^montaise 
k la Poniastowsky 
k la Portuguaise 
Spanish Style . 
k la Turque 
Rissoles of Chicken . 
Boast Chicken . 
Cygnet 
Duck . 

Wild . 
Eels, Conger 
Groose . « 
Grouse 
Guinea>Fowl 
Hare . 

Lamb, Quarter of 
Larks 
Mutton, Leg of. 

Loin of 

Saddle of . 

Shoulder of. - 
Partridges . 
Pheasants . 
Pigeons . 

Wild . 
Plovers 
Pork, Leg of 

Loin of 

Neck of 
Quails 
Babbit 
Boebuck . 
Snipe. 
Sturgeon . 
Sucking Pig 
Teal . 
. Turkey Napolitaiuv 

P16montaise 

Staffed, with Truffles 
Veal . 
Water-Hen 
Wheatears 
Widgeons . 
Woodcocks 
Robert Sauce . 
Roebuck, Brain of . 
Breast of, Lyonnaise 
Outlets of, Chasseur 



No. 

III 

"5 
109 

no 

laz 

Z08 

X07 

"5 

"3 
112 

114 

325 
6ao 

659 
638 

683 

46s 

639 
672 

658 

594 

556 
681 

553 

553 

55a 

55* 
670 

665 
656 

677 

677 

565 

564 

563 
678 

60X 

586 
674 
414 

567 
683 

649 

648 

650 

534 
683 

68a 

683 

676 

190 

583 
580 

577 



454 



INDEX. 



Boebuok, Gntletf of, Sarpriie 
Chops of, Qrilled 
Fry of , 
Haricot of. 
Haanch of, Larded . 
Roast • • • 
Loin of, or Saddle k I'Ecos 

BoIjr^Poly Pudding ! 

Romaine Saaoe . 
Soap Ik la . 

Rossini, Soap i la . 

Uump-Steak k la Chasseur 
AnehoTj Batter 
with Oyster Sauce 



No. 

578 

579 
582 

581 

587 
586 

585 
827 
ao9 

56 

59 

515 

517 

5^6 



SADDLE of Mutton, Roast 552 

Sago Soup .... Z43 

Salad, Beef .... 386 
Dressing of all Descri.- 

tion . . ". 785 

of tomatoes . . 785 

Remarks on, page 383 

Salmi of Partridges . . 667 

Pheasants .... 66z 

Teal 686 

Water-Hen ... 68a 

Widgeon .... 686 

WildDuck ... 684 

Salmis Sauce .... 199 

Salmon, Broiled, Tartare Sance 393 

Croquets .... 395 

Cutlets ft rindienne . . 394 

Genoise Sauce . . . 393 

Hollandaise Sauce . . 390 

Lobster Sauce . . . 390 

Mayonnaise Sauce . . 396 

Melted Butter . . . 390 

Pickled .... 397 
Remarks on, page 182 

Shrimp Sauce . . . 390 

Smokeid, on Toast . 787 

ft la Venitienne . . 391 

Salpicon ft la Chasseur . . 312 

ftlaFinanci^ . . . 310 

ftritalienne . . . 307 

of Lobster or Crab . . 314 

ft la MoDglas . . 315 

of Oysters .... 3x3 

ft la Palermo . . 308 

ftlaRoyale • • 309 

ft la Toulouse . > 3ix 

ft la Valencienne . . 3x6 

Salt Cod with Brown Butter . 4x1 

with Egg Sauce . . 41X 



Salt Cod Haltn d'HAtel 

Melted Butter 
Sandwiches. Beef 
Chicken 

Ham ... 
Oz-Tongne 
Remarks on, page 384 
Sardines on Toast . 
Sauce, AUemande . 
Apple 
B^hamel . 

Another 
Blanquette 
Butter 

Butter and Ketchup 
Butter, for Asparagni 
Bread 
Caper 
Cucumber . 
Devilled . 
Egg . . 
Espagnole . 

Another 
Fennel 
Finandftre . 
Genoise 
Gherkin . 
Gooseberry 
Hare . 
Hollandaise 
Horse-Radish 

Cold . 
Indian 
Italian 

Sharp. 
Mattre d'Hdtel 
Mayonnaise 

Another 

Ravigote 
Mint • 
Mushroom 
Mustard 
Napolitaine 
Onion 
Oyster 
Poulette 
Ravigote . 
Red Currant Jelly 
Remoulade 
Robert 
Romaine 
Salmi 
Shrimp 
Sicilian 
Supreme 



Na 

4" 

4" 
786 

786 

786 



787 

156 
181 

IS4 

»55 

178 

IS7 

177 
ai6 

183 

193 
203 

201 

i8a 

151 
152 
194 
187 
207 

192 
180 
200 
1&4 
191 
224 

18S 

205 
159 

2X8 

2x9 



225 

197 
323 

208 



186 

»79 

189 
axs 



190 



199 
azc 



INDEX. 



455 






No. 

Sauce, Tartare .... sai 

Tomato .... 217 

Truffle . . . .198 

Uxelles, D* . . . 195 

Veloat^ .... 153 

Veniaon .... 196 

Venitienne . 206 

Victoria .... 214 

White .... 158 

Saaerkrant .... 297 

French .... 298 

Saasages, Citizen Style . . 377 

How to Make . . 376 

Remarks on, page 174 

Bavarin Cake .... 800 

SaToj Cak? .... 796 

SooUops of Beef with Chesnat 

Par^ .... 514 

Veal, Fried . . 523 

ik hh Genoise . 334 

with MoBhrooma . 526 

Sea Kale, Batter Sauce . . 757 

Semolina Panada . . 267 

Padding .... 817 

Soup 145 

8heep*8 Feet with Oil and 

Vinegar . . 354 

Head Broth ... 80 

Kidneys 4 la Chasseur . 347 

Grilled ... 345 

Stewed with Fine 

Herhfl . . 346 

Tongue, Gherkin Sauce . 320 

& la NapolitaiDe . 353 

with Spinach . . 351 

Short Paste for Baised Pies . 790 

Sponge and Biscuits . 807 

Tagliatelli ... 95 

Tarts .... 791 

Shoulder of Mutton, Boast . 552 
Shrimp Sauce . . .188 
Sicilian Sauce . . .2x1 

Skate with Brown Butter . 416 

^ la Genoise . . 417 

ji la HoUandaise . 418 

Small Birds, Padding of . . 704 
Smelts, Fried . . .471 

au Gratin • • . . 471 
Remarks on, page 218 

Smoked Haddock • . 458 

Citixen Style . 459 

Herring .... 789 

Salmon, on Toast . . 787 
Snail Broth, for Obstinate Cough 149 

Snipe, Pie of . . . . 698 



Snipe, Roast 

Salmi of 
Soles, Boiled . 

& la Colbert 

au Gratin . 

Fried 

Fine Herbs 

Fillets of, Ik la Livoumaisc 
2k la Venitienne . 
k la Normande • 

with Parsley 

4 la Proven^ale . 

Remarks on, pagis 197 

with White Wine 
Sorrel, Pur^ of 

Soup, Clear 
Thick . 
Soubiae Porto . 
Souffle, Cheese 

Chocolate 

Coffee 

Omelet 

Rice . 

Vanilla 
Soup Artois 

Asparagus, Clear 

Beef -Tea . 

Beer and Wine . 

Bread and Raspings 

Brunoise . 

Cabbage . 

Milanaise • 
and Rice 

Calf's Tail, Indian 

Cbantilly . 

Clermont . 

Cook a Leekie . 

Oond6 • 

Dawn 
Bgg 



Poached Styrienne X31, 132 



Endive 

Gnochetti with Batter 

Gk>ose Giblet . 

Grayy 

Hare, Eng^lish Style . 

Hare, Susinoise. 

Jelly, Simple . 

Julienne . 

Leek .... 

Lettuce . . 

Stuffed 
Lombardo . 

Macaroni, see Macaroni. 
Manor-House . 



No. 
674 

675 
424 

426 

428 

425 
427 

430 
43a 
438 

431 
420 

434 
238 

44 

45 
229 

836 

833 

83s 
832 

837 

834 
62 

33 
148 

128 

Z40 

17 

34 

55 
103 

133 
49 
47 

135 
23 
77 
60 



46 

99 

130 

5 
68 

67 
150 
14 
38 
4a 
43 
58 

39 



456 



INDEX. 







No. 




No. 


Soup, Minestrone 


. zo6 


Spinach with Butter 


. 765 


Mook-Tartle 




. 6s 


Cream 


. 766 


Modena 




54 


Housewife Style 


. 763 


Navarin . 




. 63 


Ik ritalienne . 


. 762 


New Carrots 




41 


Ik la Proven^le . 


. 764 


Onion Lyonnaisc 




. 78 


Pur^ of . 


. 236 


Maigre 




. 79 


Sprats, Broiled 


. 473 


Ox-Tail . 




66 


Citizen Style . 


. 476 


Oyster 




127 


Fried. . . . , 


. 474 


Pap&laReine . 




. 139 


au Gratin . . . . 


475 


Simple 




. 138 


Bemarks on, page 220 




Paste. 




147 


Spring Soup . . . . 


15 


Pea, Green 




40 


Stewed Carp, English Style 


. 497 


Pearl Barley . 




. 126 


Chickens Ik la Africaiue 


609. 


Polish 




22 


Ik la Chasseur 


. 606 


Polonaise . 




- 134 


Housewife Style 


60s 


Potato Flour 




 144 


k la Marengo 


603 


Swiss . 




76 


with Mushrooms 


604 


Pur^ of Crayfish, oi 


r 


Mussels 


911 


Bisqne of . 


123 


Ik la Pi^montaise 


613 


Pur^e of Chicken 


. 64 


Ik la Provence . 


. 608 


Crecy . 


28 


with Bisotto 


. 602 


Frog . 


24 


Ik la Sicilienne . 


612 


Game . 


 64 


Duck with Green Peas 


633 


Green Peas . 


50 


Duck with Turnips . 


635 


Lentils 


• 52 


Eels. English S^le . 


. 466 


Patatoes and Chervil , 


. 48 


Fruit, Apples . 


841 


k la Beine . 


61 


Apricots 


. 846 


Turnips 


37 


Cherries 


. 847 


White Beaus 


53 


French, Dried Plums , 


. 849 


Quenelles of Chicken 


. 72 


with Bice . 


> 848 


of Game 


72 


Mirabel Plums . 


. 84s 


German 


. 74 


Pears . . . . 


. 842 


of Potatoes . 


• 71 


Plums. 


. 843 


2k la Beine . 


. 75 


Goose with Chesnuts * 


640 


of Bice 


. 69 


Tamato^B . 


643 


of Vegetables 
& la venitienno . 


. 70 


Mackerel . . . . 


423 


. 73 


Mutton Cutlets with Mush 




Bioe, aee Bice and Bisotto 
Ik la Komaine 




rooms . 


537 


. 56 


Mutton Cutlets with Peas . 


537 


k, la BoBsini 




 59 


Onions . . . . 


784 


Sago . 




. 142 


Partridges with Cabbage . 


668 


Semolina . 




 145 


Peas with Ham . 


. 768 


Sheep's Head 
Sorrel, Clear 




80 


Pigeons with Green Peas , 


6S2 




 44 


Mushrooms . 


' 653 


Thick. 




. 45 


Rabbit . . . . 


595 


Spring 




15 


Sheep's Kidneys with Fine 




Stock, Family . 




3 


Herbs . 


346 


Sturgeon . 




129 


Veal, Country Style . 


520 


Tapioca . 




. 143 


Another 


521 


^nnpe Milanaise . 






Kidneys k la Bomaine 


348 


Turnips 




36 


with Bice . 


522 


Velout^ 




. 141 


Stock, FamUy . . . 


3 


Yenitienne 




• 57 


for Gravy and Sauces 


4 


Spanish Cake . 




. 804 


Ordinary . • . . 


z 



INDEX. 



457 



Strawberry Cream, Bavarois 

Cream Ice . 

JeUy . . . 
Sturgeon k TAnglaiBe 

au Gratin 

Bemarkfl on, p»ge 191 

Roast, Larded . 

k la Yenitienne . 

Soup . . . 
Sucking Pig, Italienne 
k la Proven^ale 
Roast . 
Suprdme Sftuce 
Sweetbread, Mode of Preparing, 

page 150 
Sjrop, Clarified, for Jellies and 

Ices . 



TAGLIATELLI k la Chas 
seur 

k la QenoU: 

Housewife Style 

Paste, Ordinary 
Tapioca Pudding 

Soup 
Tartare Sauce . 
Tarts, Apple . 

of Fruit in General . 
Teal, Roast 

Salmi of . . 
Tencb .... 
Tomatoes, Grilled . 

Pur6e 

Salad. 

Sauce 

Stuffed, Proven^ale . 
Tongue, Fresb Ox, Gherkin 
Sauce 



Pickled Ox, Madeira Sauce 361 



Sandwiches 
Sheep's, Gherkin Sauce 

a la Napolitaine . 

with Spinach 
Tripe, Citizen Stylo 
Fried. 
k ritalienne 
& la Lyonnaise . 
& la MUanaiso . 
and Onion 

Another 
Remarks on, page 156 
k la Romaine . 
Soup k la Milanaise . 
Trout JlVAurore 



No. 

86s 

873 
858 

413 
415 

414 
41a 
129 

569 
568 

567 
188 



856 



96 
96a 

95 

95 
824 

143 

221 
810 
811 
683 

686 

499 
780 

228 

785 
217 

779 
366 



786 
352 
353 
351 
340 

344 
339 
341 
337 
342 
343 

338 

55 
481 



Broiled, Hollandaise Sauce 483 



No. 

Trout k ritalienne . . . 479 

k la Meuni^re . . 480 

Remarks on, page 223 

Trufiles, Butter . . . x66 

in Champagne . . 300 

Essence of . . • . 170 

Glaze .... 299 

Madeira . . . 300 

Sherry . . . 300 

Sauce .... 198 

Tnrbot, Coquilles of, . . 402 

au Gratin .... 401 

Croquets 402 

Fillets of, k llndienne . 399 

k ritalienne . . 400 

Hollandaise Sauce . . 398 

Mayonnaise of, . . . 403 
Remarks on, page 186 
Turkey, Boiled, with Celery 

Sauce . . . 646 

with Oyster Sauce . 647 

Braized k ritalienne . . 644 

laJardinibra . . 645 

Galantine of • . . 706 

Giblets of, Housewife Style 651 

Roast k la Nopolitaine . 649 

Pi^montaise . . 648 

Stuffed, with Truffles 650 

Turnips with Gravy . . 739 

as a Garnish • . 284 

Mashed .... 741 

Pur^e . . . .335 

Soup .... 37 

2k la Savoiaienne . . 740 

Clear Soup ... 36 

UXELLES, D' . . .195 
Sauce • . .195 

VANILLA Cream Ice . 871 
Souffle • . . .834 

Veal, Blancniette of, • . 524 
Boiled, Minced, with Poached 

Eggs . . .387 

k la Napolitaine . . 388 

Braized Itauenne . . 519 

Housewife Style . 518 

Breast of. Citizen Style . 536 

with Stuffing, Roast . 535 

Broth .... 6 

Cushion of, Braized k la 

Jardiniere . . 535 
Braized, with Glazed 

Onion . • 535 

k la MacMoine . 598 



458 



INDEX 



No. 
Veal, Cuhion of, Braiied, with 

New Carrots . 525 

Spinach . 535 
Stewed Maih- 

rooms . 525 

Peas . 525 

Staffed Tomfttoes 535 

i la Toalouso . 535 

with white Haricot 

Beans . . 525 

Oatlets, Broiled 531 

with Tomato Saace . 532 

Ham . . . 538 

A ritalienne . 530 

& la Milanaise . 539 

en PADiUote . . 531 

with Fur^ of Sorrel . 527 

and Ham, Qalantine of, . 705 

and Ham Pie . . . 690 

Forcemeat of . . . 370 

Another . . . 270a 

Kidneys, Broiled k Vln- 

dienne . . . 349 

Stewed ft la Bomaine . 348 

Remarks on, page 348 

Boast .... 534 

Stewed, Country Style . 530 

Another . . 531 

with Rice . . 533 

Vegetahle Broth ... 30 

Another .... 31 

Marrow, Butter Sauce . 748 

Housewife Style . . 749 



Vegetable Marrow ft Iltali 
enne . 
Pur^ of . 
Remarks on, page 356 
Velout^ Sauce . 

Soup 
Venison, Hashed 
Jugged 

Sauce ... 
Remarks on, page 384 
Venetian Sauce 

Soup .... 
Victoria Cake . 
Sauce 



WATEB-HEN, Boast 

Salmi of . . . 
Wheatears, Roast . 
Whitebait 

Remarks on, page 319 
White Sauce . 
Whiting. Boiled 

Broiled 

Fillets of. Citizen Style 
ft ritalienne 
ft 1ft Venitienne . 

Fried . • • • 

Remarks on, page 204 
Widgeon, Housewife Style 

Koast 

Salmi of . . . 
Woodcock, Boast • 



No. 

7SQ 
330 

IS3 
141 
588 

584 
t96 

306 

57 
794 

3X4 



683 
687 
682 
743 

rs8 

441 

44a 
445 
443 



440 

685 
683 
686 
676 



THB END. 



f 

>■ 



nUNTSD BY BAIXANTYNB, HANSON AND CO. 
BDINBUKGH AND LONDON. 



