
/^rS?-A^,;. 




mm^i 






^^^-S?-;^'. 



m 



'^^M 



S'C 



m 







IW'ATI-EE'B^RPEE & 




HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

ROR E R. 



'■\ 



HOW TO COOK 



VEGETABLES. 



MRS. Sf T-? RORER, 

PRINCIPAL OF THE PHILADELPHIA COOKING SCHOOL; EDITOR OF " TABLE TALK ' 
AUTHOR OF MRS. ROREk's COOK BOOK, ETC., ETC. 







<v 



I89I. 

PULLISHED BY 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., Seed Growers, 

Nos. 475 AND 477 North Fifth Street, 

Nos. 476 AND 478 York Avenue, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



W\ 



«.^^ 



^11^ 



^ 



Copyright, 1890, 

By W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., 

Philadelphia, Pa. 



PRESS OF WM. F. FELL & CO. 

1220-24 SANSOM STREET, 

PHILAUELPHIA, 



PUBLISHER'S PREFACE. 



The frequent receipt of inquiries as to the method of 
using certain Vegetables which are not generally grown in 
America suggested to us the advisability of having prepared 
a book on How to Cook Vegetables. With this end in 
view we communicated with Mrs. S. T. Rorer early last 
Summer, with the result now before you. 

Mrs. Rorer needs no introduction to the Housekeepers 
of America. As Principal of the Philadelphia Cooking 
School, Editor of Table Talk and Author of Mrs. Rorer's 
Cook Book, she is known throughout the United States. 
All the recipes published on the following pages have been 
carefully tested by Mrs. Rorer, and can scarcely fail to 
prove satisfactory if the directions are carefully followed. 
We trust the publication of this little book will increase 
the consumption of Vegetables and extend the varieties in 
general use. 

In order to prevent needless correspondence from the 
book trade would state that '' How to Cook Vegetables " 
is not published for sale, but for distribution among our 
customers as a premium, on the following conditions : — 
Any purchaser of Seeds, Bulbs or Plants to the amount of 
$3. fee is entitled to receive, if a request accompanies the 
order, a copy bound in paper covers, while every purchaser 
to the amount of ^5.00 is entitled to receive a copy sub- 
stantially bound in cloth. 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO. 

Philadelphia^ Jan. 77, i8gi. 



Vll 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Preface, vii 

How TO Cook Vegetables, 9 

Pickling, 50-75 

Cream Vegetable Soups, 109 

Vegetable Soups, 117 

Salads, 122 

SalAd Dressings, 124 

Canning, 138 

Season for Pickling, 150 

Bills of Fare, 158 



Vlll 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



Few things show the difference between comfortable and 
slovenly housekeeping more quickly than the dressing of 
vegetables. Potatoes, one of the most important of vege- 
tables (served in nearly every household once a day), are 
rarely cooked in a wholesome or even palatable manner ; 
out of every ten plates that come to the table but one will 
be found perfect. All green vegetables should be freshly 
gathered, washed in cold water, and cooked in freshly 
boiled water until tender, not a moment longer. After 
water has boiled for a time, it parts with its gases and be- 
comes hard, and most vegetables are better cooked in soft 
water. It is a well-known fact that all vegetables contain- 
ing casein, such as split peas, lentils, or beans, do not boil 
soft or tender in hard water. The salts of lime, sulphate, 
or gypsum which these seeds contain coagulate the casein, 
which renders the seeds unpalatable and unwholesome. 
The solvent power of pure soft water has such an effect 
upon these same vegetables when green that it will entirely 
destroy the firmness, color and outside covering (skin), 
allowing the juice to pass out into the water. Conse- 
quently, it must be remembered that all green vegetables 
must be cooked in hard water, and all dry vegetables in 
soft. A teaspoonful of common salt added to a gallon of 
water hardens it at once. A half teaspoonful of bicar- 
bonate of soda to a gallon of water renders it soft. 

Young, green vegetables should be cooked in boiling, 
salted water. Onions, if boiled in pure, soft water, are 

9 



lO HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

almost tasteless, and all the after-salting cannot restore to 
them the sweet saline taste and the strong aroma which 
they possess when boiled in salted water. 

If green vegetables become wilted, sprinkle them with 
cold water. Do not soak them in salted water, as this 
toughens them. Peas, beans, and lentils are the most nu- 
tritious of all vegetable substances. They are said to con- 
tain as much carbon as wheat, and almost double the 
amount of nitrogen. The nitrogenous elements of these 
vegetables, consisting chiefly of vegetable casein, shows 
at once that we must arrange with care our daily bills of 
fare ; and housekeepers are frequently at a loss to know 
just what kind of vegetables should be served with differ- 
ent kinds of meats, game, and fish to make them combine 
properly. A thorough acquaintance with these facts can- 
not be too highly estimated, as it is not a matter of fashion, 
but a necessity ; for instance, if a man has baked beans for 
his dinner, he should certainly have served with them pork ; 
the beans being nitrogenous, the meat must fill in the car- 
bon. While we arrange our daily bills of fare in proper 
proportions to satisfy each organ, peace and harmony pre- 
vail in the system, but let us take too much liberty, and 
serve mashed potatoes daily with our pork and see what 
happens. An excitement is at once produced ; each organ 
makes a strong effort to reject its enemy, and the whole 
system becomes out of order. Still, we fail to read this 
lesson of nature, teaching us to keep out of our stomachs 
all things that overload and crowd any such organ. 

Why do we eat butter on our bread, or why should we 
serve potatoes with our lean beef, or (as I have said) pork 
with our beans? Simply to nourish ourselves properly. 
Bear in mind that during the process of living we use up 
and cast away certain matter which must be replaced by 
equivalent substances, and these substances must be found 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. H 

in some of our own elements. Albumen must be replaced 
by albumen, fibrine by fibrine, etc. 

Dropping the scientific combination, there is a sense of 
taste that must also be consulted, to keep up the appetite. 
Certain vegetables seem particularly adapted to accompany 
certain meats. Fancy, for instance, a dish of corn passed 
with a fowl, or a dish of mashed turnips with boiled fish. 
The sight of such a combination would rob a sensitive per- 
son of appetite at once. 

We serve, then (or should do so), potatoes with our 
roasted beef, rice with our mutton, beans and apple sauce 
with our pork, rice and peas with young chickens. 

Cream vegetable soups should be accompanied with 
squares of toasted bread ; oyster and clam soups with 
pickles and crackers. CroWons go nicely with purees, 
boiled rice with gumbo; sliced cucumbers and potatoes 
should be served with fish. Where fish forms the main 
meat dish of a dinner, tomatoes and macaroni may also be 
served. Peas and tomatoes especially blend with ham and 
sweetbreads; mushrooms with chicken and sweetbreads. 
Corned beef is made more appetizing by a dish of carrots, 
stewed turnips, cabbage, string beans, kohl-rabi, and may 
also, be garnished with pickled beets. Roasted fowl may 
have as a garnish rice croquettes and baked tomatoes. Peas 
and macaroni may also accompany. 

Roast turkey — with cranberry sauce or acid jelly, peas, 
tomatoes, or cauliflower. Spinach should be served with 
lamb or mutton. Apple sauce or fried apples, sweet or 
white potatoes, and tomatoes blend also with pork. With 
baked or boiled ham, fried turnips, sweet or white potatoes, 
broccoli or any of the cabbage family may be served. 
Fried potatoes join nicely with beefsteaks, tomato sauce 
with breaded chops and veal cutlets. Chicken croquettes 
are pretty and appetizing with green peas or served with 



12 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

lettuce or French dressing; lobster cutlets with lettuce, 
water-cress, corn-salad and sorrel with French dressing. 

Broiled or baked blackbirds may be served with the salad 
course ; also frogs' legs and fried shrimps. Calves' liver 
(baked) should have served with it squash, mashed potatoes 
or stuffed egg plant. Stewed cucumbers, corn, lima beans, 
peas, tomatoes may be served with almost every kind of 
meat. Bear in mind that corn must never accompany 
poultry or game. Boiled mutton (of course) must have 
caper sauce, boiled rice, cauliflower or stewed cabbage. 
Fried cabbage goes nicely with stewed beef. 

Remember that while vegetables are plentiful, cheap and 
wholesome, they must never be served in too large quanti- 
ties or in too great a number at one time. Cauliflower and 
asparagus, for instance, are better served as a course, alone ; 
artichokes the same. Where fish is not easily obtained, a 
nicely cooked vegetable may be served as a second course, 
following the soup. 

Turnips, carrots, parsnips and beets contain very little 
nourishment. For this reason they should always be served 
with concentrated food. They produce the necessary waste 
for proper intestinal action. 



FRENCH ARTICHOKES. 

French artichokes have a large, scaly head, like the cone 
of the pine tree. 

Strip off the coarse, outer leaves, cut the stalks off about 
an inch from the bottom, wash well in cold water. Throw 
them in boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and boil 
gently until the outer leaves are tender (about one and a 
half hours). Then take them from the fire, lift them care- 
fully with a skimmer, place them upside down on a plate to 
drain. Arrange in a circle on a heated dish, tops up (of 



ARTICHOKES. 1 3 

course), pour over them Bechamel or sauce Hollandaise, 
or English melted butter sauce, and serve. 

BAKED ARTICHOKES. 

Boil six artichokes for one and a half hours, drain as 
directed in preceding recipe. When thoroughly dry, tie 
a thin slice of pork around each artichoke, put a slice of 
onion on top and stand them in a baking dish. Chop fine 
two ounces of bacon, put it in the frying pan with two 
chopped shallots, six mushrooms, a tablespoonful of parsley, 
and a half pint of stock. Bring to boiling point and pour it 
into the centre of the artichokes, replacing the slice of 
onion. Put them in a moderate oven and bake for three- 
quarters of an hour. Then remove the slices of pork, dish 
the artichokes, fill the centres with sauce Hollandaise and 
serve. 

FRIED ARTICHOKES. 

Boil and drain six artichokes. Put them in a bowl, 
sprinkle them with vinegar, and dust with salt and pepper, 
and stand aside for one hour. 

Break an egg into a soup dish, beat it lightly, add a 
tablespoonful of warm water. Dip the artichokes first into 
this and then into flour, and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve 
with sauce Tartare. 

ARTICHOKES AS A BASIS FOR JARDINIERE 

(of vegetables). 

Remove the outer leaves of six artichokes, cut off the 
tops and also the furze which adheres to the bottom. Boil 
and drain them. While they are boiling prepare the 
Macedoine. 

Cut two small carrots and one turnip, into shapes, with 
the vegetable cutter. Put them into a saucepan of salted 



14 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

water and boil until tender. In another saucepan boil a 
small quantity of string beans ; in another a dozen aspar- 
agus tips or a few flowerets of cauliflower, and a half pint 
of green peas. When these are done, drain, and mix them 
carefully together. Make a half pint of Spanish sauce ; 
mix them gently with it. When the artichokes are done, 
drain, and trim them perfectly round. Fill them with the 
Macedoine of vegetables and serve them as a garnish to 
beef a la mode, fillet of beef, braised turkey or braised leg 
of mutton. 

ARTICHOKES, a I'lTALIENNE. 

Trim and boil the artichokes as directed for sauce Hol- 
landaise. After they are drained, remove all tbe outer 
leaves, using only the '' choke." Arrange these in a circle, 
one slightly overlapping the other, and pour over them 
Italian sauce. 

STUFFED ARTICHOKES. 

12 artichokes, y^ pound of white meat of 

2 table spoonfuls of cream, chicken, 

I tablespoonful of chopped pars- i ounce of cooked ham, 
ley, Grating of nutmeg. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil and drain the artichokes ; chop the chicken and 
ham fine, and add to it all the other ingredients. Fill the 
hollow part of the artichokes with this force-meat. Stand 
them in a buttered baking pan, and bake them in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. Dish and pour around them plain 
Cream Sauce. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

This vegetable is derived from a plant belonging to the 
sunflower tribe, and is an entirely different production from 
the French artichoke. The root was cultivated in Euroj^e 



ARTICHOKES. 1 5 

before the common potato was introduced, but, unlike the 
potato, this tuber resists the action of the frost and is con- 
sequently allowed to remain in the ground during the 
winter, and is collected for use when required. On account 
of the absence of starch granules, it does not become mealy 
and dry, as the potato, and requires great care in cooking. 
Of course, a vegetable remaining in a sodden, watery con- 
dition is less digestible than a dry and mealy one. 

The artichokes should be used while fresh, washed and 
scraped, and thrown into cold water immediately, to pre- 
vent discoloration. When ready to cook, throw them in 
boiling water, and add a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for 
forty minutes. Watch them closely, as they will become 
hard and tough if over-cooked. Drain, and serve them 
with Cream Sauce or sauce HoUandaise. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES (a la VINAIGRETTE). 

Scrape the artichokes, throw them into cold water, and 
when ready to serve, cut them into thin slices, with a silver 
fork. Arrange them neatly on lettuce leaves and pour over 
them the following sauce : — 

Put a salt-spoon of salt into a bowl, add a teaspoonful of 
water, stir until dissolved. Then add a tablespoonful of 
vinegar and work in gradually three tablespoonfuls of oil. 
If the oil floats and does not mingle with the vinegar, add 
another tablespoonful. Stir or rub constantly for about 
five minutes. Add a dash of cayenne and pour it over the 
artichokes. This, of course, should be served at once. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES (a la LYONNAISE). 

Scrape the artichokes, throw them into cold water ; cut 
them into slices, boil in salt water for twenty minutes. 
Drain and dry on a towel. 



1 6 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan and add 
one onion, sliced; fry until slightly colored. Then add 
the artichokes; toss until they are a light brown. Dust 
with salt and pepper, dish, sprinkle over them chopped 
parsley and serve. 

PICKLED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Boil the artichokes as directed for Jerusalem Artichokes, 
drain, and put them in a stone jar. To every quart of 
artichokes allow one pint of cider vinegar, one bay leaf, 
one slice of onion, four whole cloves and a blade of mace. 
Put the vinegar in a porcelain-lined kettle with all the 
other ingredients, stand it over a moderate fire and bring 
slowly to boiling point ; then pour it over the artichokes 
and stand away to cool. 

They will be ready to use in twenty-four hours, and will 
keep two weeks. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

Wash the asparagus carefully in cold water, and peel the 
white ends ; throw each stalk as soon as finished into cold 
water. When ready to cook, tie into small bundles and 
throw into a kettle of boiling water. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt; boil twenty minutes. 

While the asparagus is boiling, toast squares of stale 
bread, cut off the crusts ; butter the toast while hot and 
put it on a heated platter. When the asparagus is done, 
drain, cut the strings, and place it on the toast, heads all 
one way. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan to melt, add 
to it one level tablespoonful of flour ; mix until smooth, 
add a half pint of water in which the asparagus was boiled, 
stir continually until smooth and boil. Season it with a 



ASPARAGUS, 17 

half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Pour it over 
the asparagus, and serve. 

STEWED ASPARAGUS. 

Wash the asparagus in cold water, cut into pieces about 
one inch long, rejecting all the tougher parts. Put the 
pieces in a kettle, covering them with boiling water, add a 
teaspoonful of salt and boil thirty minutes ; then drain in 
a colander. When thoroughly drained return to the kettle, 
dust the asparagus lightly with a tablespoonful of flour, add 
two ounces of butter and half a pint of cream or milk, half 
a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. As soon as this 
comes to boiling point it is ready to serve. Do not stir it 
or you will break the asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS IN AMBUSH. 

I quart of asparagus tips, I long, stale loaf of bread, 

I pint of milk, 4 eggs (yolks), 

I ounce of butter, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the asparagus tips, throw them into boiling water, 
add a teaspoonful of salt and boil fifteen minutes ; then 
drain in a colander. Cut the bread into slices one and a 
half inches in thickness, remove the crusts ; mark out the 
centre and remove the crumbs, leaving the slice in the form 
of a perfectly square box, the walls and bottom about one 
and a half inches thick. Brush the outside with melted 
butter and put into a quick oven urilil a golden brown. 
Fill the asparagus tips into the centres ; arrange them on 
a neatly folded napkin. Stand them in a warm place while 
you make the sauce. 

Put the milk on to heat in a double boiler, beat the yolks 
of the eggs until light, then stir them into the hot milk ; 
stir until they just begin to thicken. Take quickly from the 



l8 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

fire, add the butter, salt and pepper; pour this carefully into 
the boxes and serve at once. 

ASPARAGUS, a la HOLLANDAISE. 

1 bundle of asparagus, 2 ounces of butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, Yolks of two eggs, 

I tablespoonful of lemon juice, I teaspoonful of onion juice, 

I bay leaf, l tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Wash, trim and boil the asparagus as directed for boiled 
asparagus. When done, drain and arrange neatly in a flat 
vegetable dish. Put the butter in a saucepan ; when melted, 
add the flour ; mix until smooth. Add a half pint of the 
water in which the asparagus was boiled ; stir continually 
until boiling ; add the bay leaf, onion, salt and pepper to 
taste. Stand this over hot water for five minutes ; strain, 
add the parsley chopped fine, and the well-beaten yolks of 
the eggs; take from the fire and add the lemon juice. 
Pour this over the asparagus and serve as a vegetable course, 
by itself. 

ESCALLOPED ASPARAGUS. 

1 bundle of asparagus, 6 eggs, 

2 ounces of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

I pint of milk, I level teaspoonful of salt, 

A dash of white pepper, y^ cup of bread-crumbs. 

Trim and boil the asparagus in salted water for twenty 
minutes, drain ; hard boil the eggs, remove the shells and 
chop them fine. Put a layer of the asparagus in the bot- 
tom of a baking dish, then a sprinkling of the hard boiled 
eggs, another layer of asparagus and a sprinkling of ^gg^ 
and so continue until the dish is full ; have the last layer 
asparagus. Put the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, 
mix ; add the milk ; stir continually until boiling. Add 
the salt and pepper. Pour this gently into the dish, wait- 



STRING BEANS. 1 9 

ing until it settles to the bottom ; sprinkle the bread- 
crumbs over the top and, if you like, sprinkle over also a 
tablespoonful of grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven until 
the bread is golden brown (about fifteen minutes). 

This dish may be served alone as a course, or in the 
middle of a dinner as an entree. 

ASPARAGUS PEAS. 

Cut the tops from one bundle of asparagus, throw them 
into boiling, salted water and boil fifteen minutes ; drain 
in a colander. Then put into a saucepan with a tablespoon- 
ful (one ounce) of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, four tablespoonfuls 
of cream mixed with the yolk of one egg. Toss gently 
over the fire for a moment and serve quickly in a heated 
dish. 

STRING BEANS. 

j^ peck of beans, i tablespoonful of butter, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the blossom end of the bean and pull it back to 
remove the string ; then pare a thin strip from the other 
edge of the pod. In this way only are you sure that every 
string is removed. Cut the beans into pieces one inch long, 
throw in clear, cold water for thirty minutes. Drain, put 
in a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt 
and one of butter ; boil gently one hour. Drain, put them 
in a vegetable dish, add the butter, salt and pepper. 

The first butter is to soften the beans while boiling. 

STRING BEANS WITH CREAM. 

Prepare the beans as directed in the preceding recipe. 
Put them in a saucepan of boiling water, add two ounces 
of ham, and boil gently one hour. Drain, remove the 



20 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

ham, return the beans to the saucepan. Add an ounce of 
butter, a gill of cream and a palatable seasoning of salt and 
pepper. 

BAKED BEANS. 

I quart of small, white soup I pound of pickled pork, 
beans, i tablespoonful of molasses, 

y^ teaspoonful of mustard. 

Soak the beans over night in cold water. In the morning 
wash well in a colander, put them into a kettle of cold 
water, bring quickly to boiling point ; drain, throw this 
water away and cover with freshly boiled water. Score the 
rind of the pork and put into the kettle of beans ; sitnmer 
until you may blow the skin off the beans. To do this take 
three or four beans in your hand, blow hard on them ; if 
the skin cracks they are done ; remove and drain at once. 
Put them into the bean pot, almost bury the pork in the 
centre, allowing the scored part to remain above the beans. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt to one pint of the water in which 
the beans are boiled ; then add to it the mustard and 
molasses and pour over the beans. Put the lid on the bean 
pot and bake in a moderate oven for from six to eight hours. 
Add water as that on the beans evaporates. If you wish the 
beans for Sunday morning's breakfast, it is best to bake in 
a moderate oven all night. 

As many persons are without bean pots and use an ordi- 
nary iron baking pan for the operation, they must remem- 
ber that the pan must be covered carefully and watched 
closely, or the beans will break and become a soft, sticky mass. 
Two hours is sufficient time to allow if you use a baking pan. 

KIDNEY BEANS, a la MA?TRE d' HOTEL. 

Take one quart of freshly shelled kidney beans, cover with 
boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt and boil gently 



BEANS. 21 

until tender. This can be ascertained by pressing the 
bean between the thumb and forefinger ; if it mashes easily 
drain at once. Put them back into the saucepan, add a 
tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of lemon juice ; 
chop a teaspoonful of parsley very fine, add to it one gill 
of the liquor in which the beans were boiled, mix with it 
one tablespoonful of flour, add to the beans. Stir very 
gently until boiled and serve. 

KIDNEY BEANS WITH BROWN SAUCE. 

I quart of kidney beans, I pound of soup meat, 

I teaspoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

A slice of onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Put the beans into a saucepan with the meat and cover 
with boiling water, boil gently thirty minutes, then add a 
teaspoonful of salt, and boil until tender. Put the butter 
into a frying pan, and when very brown add the flour, and 
brown again. Then add one pint of the water in which 
the beans were boiled, stirring continually until boiling and 
smooth, add the onion chopped fine, and a palatable sea- 
soning of salt and pepper. Drain the beans, add them to 
the sauce, simmer ten minutes and serve. 

WHITE BEAN SAUTES. 

This is a very good way of warming over cold beans. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying pan, with a 
teaspoonful of chopped onion and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Put in the beans, shake over the fire 
until the beans are thoroughly heated ; sprinkle with a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and the juice of half a 
lemon. Serve very hot. 



22 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

RED BEANS. 

I pint of beans, i onion, 

I carrot, I teaspoonful of sugar, 

j^ pound of bacon, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Soak the beans over night in cold water ; in the morning, 
wash, drain, put into a kettle with the bacon, onion, carrot 
and sufficient cold water to cover ; add an eighth of a tea- 
spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and boil gently until the 
beans are tender (about one hour). When done, drain, put 
them into a vegetable dish, add two ounces of butter, and 
salt and pepper ; serve at once. The bacon may be cut in 
thin slices and used as a garnish. 

BEAN POLENTA. 

I pint of small, white soup beans, I tablespoonful of butter, 
ly^ tablespoonfuls of molasses, I tablespoonful of vinegar, 

yi teaspoonful of French mustard, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the beans and soak them over night in lukewarm 
water. In the morning, drain off this water, cover with 
fresh, cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and boil slowly 
one hour; drain again, cover with one quart of fresh, 
boiling water, and boil slowly another hour. When done, 
press through a colander, return to the kettle, add the 
butter, molasses, mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar ; stir and 
boil ten minutes. Serve in a vegetable tureen. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

I pint of white soup beans, I tablespoonful of molasses, 

I tablespoonful of vinegar, I tablespoonful of butter, 

Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Boil the beans as directed in preceding recipe. When 
done, drain and press the beans through a colander, then 
add the other ingredients, mix well and stand away to 



LIMA BEANS. 23 

cool. When cold, form into small balls, dip first in egg 
and then in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

LIMA BEANS, a la POULETTE. 

I pint of young beans, j4 piiit of milk, 

I tablespoonful of butter, 2 level tablespoonfuls of flour, 

Yolks of two eggs, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 

Dash of pepper, ^ teaspoonful of onion juice. 

Cover the beans with boiling water, add a speck of bi- 
carbonate of soda, and boil thirty minutes. Drain, put 
the butter in a saucepan ; when melted add the flour, mix ; 
add the milk, stir until boiling ; add the salt, pepper and 
onion juice. Take from the fire, add the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten. Dish the beans, pour over the sauce and 
serve very hot. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Cover the beans with freshly boiled water, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and boil thirty minutes; drain, season 
with pepper and salt, and add to them sufficient butter to 
make them palatable. Half a cup of scalded cream may 
also be added ; a sprig of mint may be boiled with the 
beans but removed before serving. 

LIMA BEANS, (DRIED). 

Soak one pint of beans in water over night. In the 
morning drain off this water and cover with fresh water. 
Two hours before dinner time drain again, cover with 
boiling, sqff water, and boil thirty minutes. Drain again, 
cover with fresh, boiling soft water ; add one-eighth of a 
teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and boil until tender. 
Drain, season with salt and pepper, dredge over them a 
tablespoonful of flour ; add a tablespoonful of butter, a 



24 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

half-pint of cream, let them boil up once and serve; or 
they may be served with butter, salt and pepper. 

All shelled beans, butter, kidney, case-knife and the 
small French beans may be cooked in precisely the same 
manner. The main point to be remembered is that all dry 
beans must be cooked in soft water and all green beans in 
hard water. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash carefully, but do not cut or scrape. If the skin is 
broken before cooking, the juice will go out into the water 
and the beets lose both flavor and color while cooking. 
Young beets will cook nicely in one hour, old ones — Mrs. 
Henderson says — require forever ; but four hours' cooking 
will, as a rule, make them tender. If, however, they are 
tough and wilted, as is frequently the case in mid-winter, 
they should be soaked over night in cold water ; if still 
wilted, they will never become palatable or tender. Beets 
should be put on to cook in boiling water and should be 
taken from the water at the end of th% time given, thrown 
into cold water just a moment and the skin should be 
rubbed off with a towel. Then cut into slices, dish, dust 
with salt and pepper, pour a small quantity of melted butter 
over them and they are ready to serve. 

Beets that are left over should be put at once into cold 
vinegar and used as pickles or as a garnish for potato salad. 



BEETS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Select sweet, white beets, and boil as directed in the 
preceding recipe. When the beets are done, rub off the 
skin and cut them into dice. Put them in a heated vege- 
table dish and pour over Cream Sauce. 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 25 

TO PICKLE BEETS. 

I dozen good sized beets, 2 quarts of vinegar, 

^ ounce of mace, ^^ ounce of ginger, 

2 tablespoonfuls of grated horse-radish. 

Boil the beets; when done remove the skins and cut 
them into any shape you please. They are prettier cut and 
gimped in the shape of wheels. Put them into a jar. Put 
the vinegar into a porcelain-lined kettle, add the mace, 
ginger and a salt-spoon of pepper. Bring to boiling point, 
take from the fire, add the horse-radish and pour, while hot, 
over the beets. Stand in a cold place and they will be 
ready to use in twelve hours. 

SWISS CHARD OR SILVER BEET AS GREENS. 

These are leaflets or mid-ribs of the white beet. Take 
them while young and tender, wash, tie into bundles, boil 
and dress precisely the same as asparagus on toast. Serve 
with them, sauce Hollandaise or English drawn butter. 

This makes one of the most delicate and delicious of 

dishes. 

BROCCOLI. 

Pick off the leaves and cut the stalks close to the bottom 
of the bunch ; throw into cold water half an hour, then tie 
in a piece of cheese-cloth to prevent breaking; put into a 
kettle of salted, boiling water and boil twenty minutes. 
Take out carefully, loosen the cheese-cloth, place the broc- 
coli head up in a hot dish. Pour around it a half pint of 
Cream Sauce and serve very hot. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

1 quart of sprouts, i tablespoonful of salt, 

2 ounces of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

A dash of pepper. 

Wash the sprouts and take off the dead leaves, throw 



26 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

them into boiling water, add the salt and boil with the 
saucepan uncovered twenty minutes. Then drain into a 
colander; turn them into a heated dish. Melt the butter, 
add the flour, mix; add a pint of water in which the 
sprouts were boiled, stir until boiling, add the pepper, one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, pour over the sprouts and 
serve. 

Sprouts may also be served boiled with plain melted 
butter, salt and pepper, or boiled with Cream Sauce. 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS, SAUTES. 

Pick, wash and boil one quart of Brussels Sprouts ; drain 
carefully, put them in a saucepan with two tablespoon fuls 
of butter, toss over a quick fire for about eight minutes, 
then add one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and a palatable seasoning of 
salt and pepper ; serve very hot. 

Sprouts may also be used, plain boiled, as a garnish for 
braised meats. 

BORECOLE OR KALE 

Wash half a peck of kale thoroughly in cold water, 
changing the water as it becomes clouded, then pick over 
carefully, cut off the roots, wash again, drain by picking 
up in handfuls and shaking. Put this into a kettle with 
one pint of boiling water, stand over the fire and cook for 
thirty minutes; do not cover the kettle. Then drain in a 
colander, turn into a chopping tray and chop fine ; it can- 
not be too fine. Put into a small saucepan, add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of butter and a pala- 
table seasoning of salt and pepper, stir over the fire until 
very hot. Serve on a heated dish, garnished with squares 
of buttered toast. 



CABBAGE WITH CORNED BEEF. 27 

KALE WITH PORK. 

Put a piece of salt pork into a kettle of cold water, allow- 
ing it to boil fifteen minutes to a pound. Three-quarters 
of an hour before it is done, have ready, washed and picked, 
the necessary quantity of kale, put it on with the pork, do 
not cover the kettle, and boil thirty minutes. When done, 
drain, put the pork in the centre of the dish and the kale 
around it ; garnish with hard-boiled eggs. French dressing 
may also be poured around it. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Select a heavy, white head of cabbage, remove the out- 
side leaves, cut into quarters and, if the head is large, again 
into eighths. Soak in cold water one hour, drain, cover 
with boiling water, let stand fifteen minutes or until cool. 
Press out this water gently and put the cabbage in a kettle 
nearly filled with boiling water; the cabbage must be 
covered or the odor will penetrate the entire house. Add 
a teaspoonful of salt and a small piece of Chili pepper ; 
cover, and boil three-quarters of an hour. If the cabbage 
is old, it may perhaps require one hour's boiling. The 
first scalding and the Chili pepper are supposed to diminish 
the unpleasant odor usually thrown off; this we know — if 
the directions are carefully followed, cabbage may be 
cooked until thoroughly done, without the slightest odor in 
the house. When the cabbage is done, drain and serve 
with Drawn Butter or Cream Sauce. 

CABBAGE WITH CORNED BEEF. 

Wash the meat in cold water, put it into a large kettle 
and cover with cold water ; sinmier gently two hours or 
fifteen minutes to a pound. In the meantime, remove the 



2 8 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

outside leaves from a hard head of cabbage, cut into quar- 
ters and soak in cold water one hour, then add to the meat ; 
sinwier one hour. When done, put the meat in the centre 
of a large dish and arrange the cabbage neatly around it. 
Serve with tomato catsup, mustard or horse-radish sauce. 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Cut a small head of cabbage into quarters and soak in 
cold water one hour, drain and shake ; remove the hard 
part and chop the remainder rather fine. Put in a stewing 
pan with sufficient boiling water to cover it, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, boil twenty minutes. Drain in a colander, 
turn into a heated dish and pour over it, Cream Sauce. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

For this dish select a head of Savoy cabbage ; the ordi- 
nary hard head cannot be stuffed. Put the whole head into 
a bowl and pour boiling water over it. Let it stand fifteen 
minutes, drain, cover again with boiling water, let it stand 
thirty minutes. While this is standing make the stuffing as 
follows: — 

Wash two heaping tablespoonfuls of rice in cold water, 
boil twenty minutes ; then mix it with a half pound of 
sausage meat, one tablespoonful of onion juice, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a dash of pepper. Mix 
all well together, drain, and gently press the water from 
the cabbage, then open it carefully to the very centre. Put 
in about a half teaspoonful of this mixture,, fold over two 
or three of the little leaves, cover these leaves with a layer 
of the mixture. Fold over this the next layer of leaves, 
and so continue until each layer is stuffed. When finished, 
press all firmly but gently together. Tie the head in a 
piece of cheese-cloth, put in a kettle of salted, boiling 



CHARLESTON CABBAGE. 29 

water and boil two hours. When done, carefully remove 
the cloth, stand the cabbage in a deep, round dish, pour 
over it Cream Sauce and serve very hot. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

y^ head of cabbage, 2 ounces of butter, 

2 level table spoonfuls of flour, I pint of milk, 
4 eggs, I teaspoonful of salt. 

Dash of pepper. 

Wash and chop coarsely the cabbage, throw into a kettle 
of boiling, salted water and boil twenty minutes, drain in 
a colander. Have ready four hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine. Put two tablespoonfuls or two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan ; when melted, add two level tablespoonfuls of 
flour, add one pint of milk, stir continually until it boils ; 
add the chopped eggs, one teaspoonful of salt and a dash 
of pepper. Pat the cabbage in a baking dish, pour over 
the sauce, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. 

CABBAGE WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Remove the outer leaves and cut one head of Savoy cab- 
bage in halves; .throw into boiling, salted water and boil 
twenty minutes. Drain and put carefully in a baking dish, 
pour over a half pint of cream sauce, dust thickly with 
grated Parmesan or other cheese, then with bread crumbs ; 
bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

CHARLESTON CABBAGE. 

1 head of cabbage, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
yz pint of cream, i egg, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Select a hard head of cabbage, cut it into halves, then 



30 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

into eighths ; put into a kettle of boiling, salted water, 
boil twenty minutes, drain. While it is boiling beat the 
egg until well mixed, add to it the cream. Put the vinegar, 
sugar, salt, pepper and oil into the saucepan, bring to boil- 
ing point, add the egg and cream, mix thoroughly, add the 
cabbage, cook one moment and serve very hot. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

^ head of cabbage, A palatable seasoning of salt and 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, 

2 ounces of butter. 

Wash and chop the cabbage rather fine, put into a kettle 
of salted, boiling water ; boil twenty minutes and drain. 
Return to the kettle, add butter, vinegar, salt and pepper; 
stir until very hot and serve. 

RED CABBAGE, a la FLAMANDE. 

Take off the outer leaves of a hard head of red cabbage, 
cut it in pieces, cover with boiling water, let stand fifteen 
minutes ; drain and chop fine. Put this into a porcelain- 
lined stewing pan with a tablespoonful of butter, one sliced 
onion, one bay leaf, two cloves, one teaspoonful of salt and 
a dash of pepper. Simmer slowly three-quarters of an hour, 
stirring occasionally. Take out the bay leaf, add one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and serve at once. 

Do not add water, as the cabbage will be sufficiently 
moist to prevent scorching. 

RED CABBAGE, GERMAN STYLE. 

Trim the leaves from two small, solid heads of red cab- 
bage, divide them in halves ; place the flat side downward 
on the table and cut the cabbage into slices a half inch 
thick. Put two tablespoonfuls or two ounces of butter in 



PICKLED RED CABBAGE. 3 1 

a large frying pan ; when hot put in the slices of cabbage, 
add one teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoon fuls of vine- 
gar, and one chopped onion. Cover the pan and place 
over a moderate fire to cook gently one hour. Serve very 
hot. 

If care is taken in the preparation of this dish, it will be 
delicious. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Chop sufficient cabbage to make one gallon, add one 
good-sized onion chopped, two red and two green peppers 
cut in small strips. (The onion may be omitted if not 
liked.) Put one layer of this in the bottom of a stone jar, 
sprinkle over one teaspoonful of salt, then one of cabbage, 
one of salt, and so continue until the cabbage is used. Cover 
and stand away over night. Next day drain thoroughly in a 
colander, pressing lightly ; then put a layer of the cabbage 
in the bottom of a jar, sprinkle over a few mustard seeds, 
one or two whole cloves, then a layer of cabbage, dust 
with pepper ; again a layer of mustard seed and one or 
two cloves, and so continue until the jar is nearly full. 
Do not pack tightly. Cover with good cider vinegar, 
waiting until it sinks to the bottom of the jar ; then 
cover again until the cabbage is thoroughly moistened 
with vinegar. It is ready for immediate use and will keep 
seven or eight days. 

PICKLED RED CABBAGE. 

Cut hard heads of red cabbage into fine strips, place at 
once in a stone jar. Add to each layer, a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and about six whole allspice and pepper-corns. 
Cover with cold vinegar and it is ready for immediate 
use. 



32 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Shred the cabbage fine. Line the bottom and sides of 
a small keg with the green cabbage leaves, put in a layer 
of the cabbage about three inches thick, cover with four 
ounces of salt and pound down well, then another layer of 
cabbage and salt, and so on until the keg is full. Put a 
board on top of the cabbage and on this a heavy weight, 
and stand in a moderately warm place to ferment. The 
cabbage sinks when the fermentation begins and the liquor 
rises to the surface over the cover. Skim off the scum and 
stand the keg in a cool, dry cellar and it is ready to use. 
Cover it closely each time any is taken out. When you 
use it, wash it in warm water, and boil it with corned beef 
or salt pork the same as cabbage. 

COLD SLAW. 

1 quart of cut cabbage, 2 eggs, 

^ cup of cream (sour is best), i teaspoonful of salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, A little pepper, 

Butter the size of a walnut. 

Cut the cabbage very fine and put it in an earthen bowl. 
Put the vinegar on to boil. Beat the eggs until light, add 
to them the cream and butter. Now add to these the boil- 
ing vinegar. Stir over the fire until boiling hot, add the 
salt and pepper, and pour over the cabbage, and it is ready 
to serve when very cold. 

KOHL-RABL 

Kohl-rabi or kale-turnip, as it is sometimes called, is a 
cultivated variety of kale or cabbage, distinguished by the 
swelling of the stem, just above the ground, in a turnip 
form, to the size of a man's fist ; the larger leaf-stalks 
springing from the swollen part. This swollen part is used 



STEWED CARROTS. 33 

for food. It may be served according to any of the recipes 
given for turnips; or, uncooked in slices — the same as 
radishes. 

PICKLED PARSLEY. 

Select perfect, curly heads of parsley, wash thoroughly 
in salt water, drain and shake till dry. Put into jars of 
cold vinegar and to each quart allow two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped horse-radish. Cover and stand away for use. 

This is especially nice in winter when it is impossible to 
get the fresh parsley, and may be used to garnish cold meat 
dishes, deviled eggs, tomatoes or hot spiced meats. Fresh 
green parsley may be used as a flavoring for sauces, soups, 
and all kinds of braised meats, and is the prettiest of all 
the garnishes. 

PICKLED CARROTS. 

Scrape and wash in cold water six good-sized carrots, 
cut in slices cross-wise ; throw them into a kettle of boil- 
ing water, boil until tender, about three-quarters of an 
hour. Drain, put in a jar and pour over them cold vinegar, 
add one slice of onion, two bay leaves and a teaspoonful 
of celery seed. They will be ready to use in twelve hours. 

These pickled carrots make a delightful garnish for cold 
meat dishes, potato salad, or may be served following soup 
with celery, olives, etc. 

STEWED CARROTS, No. 1. 

Scrape and cut into cubes sufficient carrots to make one 
pint, throw into a kettle of boiling water ; cook three- 
quarters of an hour, then drain. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan, add a half pint of good stock 
and one tablespoonful of sugar. Boil rapidly ten minutes, 
take from the lire, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a 



34 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Drain and 
dish the carrots, pour the sauce over them while very hot. 

STEWED CARROTS, No. 2. 

3 good-sized carrots, I teaspoonful of salt, 

I tablespoonful of butter, I tablespoonful of flour, 

y^ pint of milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Pare and quarter the carrots. Put them in a saucepan 
and cover with boiling water ; add the salt and let them 
boil one hour and a half. When done, drain, place them 
on a hot dish and stand over boiling water to keep warm. 
Put the butter in a frying pan, let it melt ; add the 
flour and mix. Do not brown. Now add the milk, salt 
and pepper. Stir until it boils and is smooth. Pour over 
the carrots and serve. 

CARROT MARMALADE. 

Wash and boil until tender four pounds of young car- 
rots, drain and peel, then press them through a colander, 
put them into a porcelain-lined kettle with two pounds of 
sugar and a pint of water, add a few pieces of chipped 
lemon peel, the grated yellow rind of two oranges, a small 
piece of ginger root cut into pieces and two bay leaves ; 
simmer gently until the proper consistency and put away 
in tumblers. 

CAULIFLOWER WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Pick off the outer leaves, cut off the stem close to the 
bottom of the flowerets ; wash the head well in cold water, 
then soak, the top downward, in a pan of clear, cold 
water one hour. Place the head in a vegetable basket or 
tie in a piece of cheese-cloth, stand in a kettle of boiling, 
salt water, stems downward; cover the kettle and boil 



STEWED CAULIFLOWER. 35 

gently thirty minutes, or until the cauliflower is tender. 
When done, lift carefully from the water ; if in a basket, 
simply turn it out. If in a cloth, remove the cloth and 
stand the cauliflower in a round, shallow dish, stems 
downward. If two heads are cooked, place them in a 
platter, stems to the centre of the platter. Pour over 
Cream Sauce and serve. 

Cauliflower cooked this way may be served as a separate 
course by itself. 

STEWED CAULIFLOWER. 

I head of cauliflower, 4 slices of bread, 

I tablespoonful of butter, 6 mushrooms, 

Yolks of three eggs, y^ teaspoonful of onion juice, 

^ teaspoonful of pepper, i tablespoonful of flour, 

^ pint of stock, Grating of nutmeg, 

y^ teaspoonful of salt. 

For this select a cauliflower close and white. Pick off 
the outer leaves and break apart the flowerets ; wash well 
in cold water, throw in a kettle of boiling water, add one 
teaspoonful of salt and boil briskly until the stalks feel 
tender (about twenty or twenty-five minutes). When done, 
lift carefully with a skimmer, place them on the squares 
of bread that have been toasted and buttered while hot. 
Put the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix; add the 
stock, stir continually until it boils ; add the mushrooms 
chopped fine, cook a moment longer. Take from the fire, 
add the beaten yolks of the eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg and 
onion juice. Pour this around the cauliflower and serve 
at once. 

The sauce must not be boiled after the eggs are added or 
it will curdle. 



36 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

CAULIFLOWER au GRATIN. 

I cauliflower, i tablespoonful of butter, 

I tablespoonful of flour, j^ pint of milk, 

^ teaspoonful of salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 

Boil the cauliflower as directed in Cauliflower with Cream 
Sauce. When done, drain carefully and put into a baking 
dish. Put the butter in a frying pan, when melted add 
the flour, mix till smooth, add the milk, stir continually 
until it boils, then add the salt and cheese. Pour this over 
the cauliflower and serve at once. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER, 

I cauliflower, i tablespoonful of butter, 

I tablespoonful of flour, y^ teaspoonful of salt, 

^ cup of bread crumbs, I bay leaf, 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, y^ pint of milk. 

Wash the cauliflower, cut off the outer leaves and break 
the head into flowerets ; throw into a kettle of boiling, 
salted water and boil thirty minutes. Drain, place in a 
baking dish. 

Put the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix; add 
the milk, stir continually until it boils, add the bay leaf, 
parsley, salt and pepper. Stand this over boiling water 
ten minutes. Remove the bay leaf, pour the sauce over 
the cauliflower, sprinkle over the bread crumbs. Put here 
and there bits of butter, bake in a quick oven until the 
bread is a golden brown (about fifteen minutes). 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

)^ pound of English mustard, ^ ounce of turmeric, 

2 tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, j^ gallon of vinegar, 
I cup of sugar, I gill of salad oil, 

3 good-sized heads of cauliflower. 

Boil the cauliflower until tender, and divide it into flow- 



CELERY. 37 

ereis. Put the vinegar in a porcelain-lined kettle ; mix the 
mustard and turmeric together, moisten with a little cold 
vinegar, stir into the hot vinegar and continue until it be- 
gins to thicken. Add the sugar, mustard seed and oil, and 
stir again. Pour this while hot over the cauliflower. When 
cool, put away in glass or stone jars, and it is ready to use. 

FRIED CELERY. 

Remove the green leaves from the celery and cut the 
stalks into pieces five inches long. Cleanse thoroughly, 
cover with boiling water, stand aside fifteen minutes; drain 
and dry on a towel. Beat one egg without separating until 
the white and yolk are thoroughly mixed, add one table- 
spoonful of warm water. Take one cup of dry bread 
crumbs, add a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 
Dip the celery first in the egg and then in the crumbs ; fry 
until crisp, in smoking hot fat. Drain and serve hot. 

This is a very nice accompaniment to poultry and game. 

CELERY WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Trim the green ends from six roots of celery ; do not 
separate the stalks, but cleanse the celery by plunging it in 
and out of cold water. Trim the roots and see that the 
celery is perfectly free from sand. Throw the bunches in 
a kettle of boiling water ; add one teaspoonful of salt 
and boil twenty minutes. Drain, arrange on a flat dish, 
roots all one way, pour over one pint of tomato sauce and 
serve. 

CELERY, a la FRANCAISE. 

Wash and cut two roots of celery into pieces a half inch 
long, throw into a kettle of boiling water; add a teaspoonful 
of salt and boil twenty minutes. Drain in a colander. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan and add a level 



38 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

tablespoonful of flour, mix until smooth ; add a pint of 
chicken stock, stir continually until it boils, add a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, a half teaspoonful 
of onion juice and the celery. Cover and swiine?' gently 
ten minutes. Serve very hot. 

CELERIAC OR TURNIP-ROOTED CELERY. 

Pare one dozen of the celeriac, throw into cold water for 
thirty minutes. Then put in a saucepan, cover with boil- 
ing water, add a half teaspoonful of salt and boil thirty or 
thirty-five minutes. They should be tender when pierced 
with a fork. When done, drain, cut in slices, dish, cover 
with Cream Sauce and serve. 

These roots also make a delightful salad dressed with 
Mayonnaise. 

STEWED CELERY. 

The green stalks that are not attractive on the table may 
be used in this way : — 

Scrape and wash them clean. Cut in pieces one inch 
long, and soak in cold water for fifteen minutes ; then put 
them into a saucepan of boiling water, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, and boil thirty minutes, or until tender. When 
done, drain in a colander and throw into cold water while 
you make the sauce. Put one tablespoonful of butter in a 
frying-pan ; and, when melted, add one tablespoonful of 
flour ; mix until smooth ; add a half-pint of milk and stir 
continually until it boils ; then add three tablespoonfuls ot 
the water in which the celery was boiled, salt and white 
pepper to taste. Add the celery to this sauce, stir until 
thoroughly heated through, and it is ready to serve. 



CORN BOILED ON THE COB. 39 

CELERY au JUS. 

Scrape and wash the celery. Cut it in pieces one inch 
long; then put in a saucepan, cover with boiling stock, 
add a teaspoonful of salt and boil thirty minutes. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan and stir until a 
dark brown ; add to it one tablespoonful of flour, mix until 
smooth. Drain the celery, then add a half-pint of the 
liquor in which it was boiled to the butter and flour ; stir 
continually until it boils, then add salt and pepper to taste. 
Put the celery in a heated dish, pour the sauce over it, and 
serve. 

CHICORY WITH CREAM. 

Wash a quarter of a peck of chicory, throw in a large 
kettle of salted water and boil half an hour. Then drain 
and throw into a pan of cold water five minutes. Drain 
and press gently until dry. Chop fine, put into a saucepan 
with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a grating of nutmeg ; then sprinkle 
over an even tablespoonful of flour. Mix all this well 
together, add a gill of thick cream, stirring over the fire 
until boiling hot. Take from the fire. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs until light, add two tablespoon fuls of cream, stir 
this into the chicory. Turn into a heated dish and serve 
garnished with hard-boiled eggs. 

CORN BOILED ON THE COB. 

Corn should be cooked as quickly as possible after pick- 
ing, as it heats and loses its sweetness. If necessary to 
keep over night, spread it out singly on the cold cellar 
floor; do this as quickly as you receive it. Do not open 
or tear the husks until ready to boil it. Then remove the 
husks and every thread of silk. Have ready a kettle of 
boiling water, throw in the corn and boil, after it begins 



40 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

to boil, five minutes. Long boiling destroys both the color 
and flavor of the corn and renders it indigestible. When 
done, take out carefi.illy with a skimmer, place on a corn- 
cloth or napkin, throw the corners over to prevent the 
steam escaping ; serve immediately. 

While perhaps it is rather unusual to give recipes '' how 
to eat," it is certainly an art to know just how to eat corn. 
Score every row of grains with a sharp knife, spread lightly 
with butter, dust with salt, and with the teeth press out the 
centre of the grains, leaving every hull fast to the cob. 
Corn thus eaten will not cause trouble or produce indi- 
gestion, as the hull is the only indigestible part. Small 
wooden skewers with quills of paper may be stuck in the 
ends of the cob and used as holders. 

CORN BOILED IN THE HUSKS. 

Remove the outer husks, leaving the cob covered with a 
layer of the young, light husks. These must be opened, 
of course, to enable you to take away the silk. Have ready 
a kettle of boiling water, throw in the corn and boil, after 
it begins to boil, ten minutes. When done, drain, serve 
in a napkin or corn-cloth as before. Do not remove the 
husks. Many persons think this the better way of boiling 
©orn, as the husks prevent the sweetness from being drawn 
out into the water. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

I dozen ears of corn, 2 eggs, 

j^ pint of milk, ^ pound of flour, 

J^ teaspoonful of salt, l teaspoonful of baking powder, 

2 dashes of pepper. 

Score the corn down the centre of each row of grains, 
then with a blunt knife press out the pulp, leaving the hull 
on the cob. Never grate corn, as in that way you get all 



SCALLOPED CORN. 4^ 

the hull mixed with the pulp. To this pulp add the milk, 
salt, pepper, yolks of the eggs and the flour. Beat well. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to 
the baking powder, stir carefully until thoroughly mixed. 
Have ready a pan of deep lard, drop the mixture by spoon- 
fuls into the boiling fat ; brown on one side, then turn and 
brown on the other. Remove each one with a skimmer, 
drain on brown paper. Serve very hot. 

Do not pierce the fritters with a fork, as it allows the 
steam to escape and makes the fritters heavy, Canned corn 
may be used, allowing one pint finely chopped. 

STEWED CORN WITH TOMATOES. 

Scald and peel six good-sized tomatoes, cut them in 
pieces, put them in a porcelain-lined kettle with a table- 
spoonful of butter and a slice of onion ; stew slowly thirty 
minutes. Husk one dozen ears of corn, score down the 
centre of each row of grains, press out the pulp ; add it to the 
tomatoes, cook ten minutes. Add another tablespoonful of 
butter and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. After 
adding the corn, watch carefully or the corn will settle to 
the bottom of the pan and scorch. Serve very hot. 

SCALLOPED CORN. 

Husk one dozen ears of corn, score and press out the 
pulp as previously directed. Scald, pare and cut fine six 
good-sized ripe tomatoes. Measure a half pint of stale bread 
ciumbs. Put a layer of corn in the bottom of a baking dish, 
then a layer of tomatoes, then a sprinkling of bread crumbs, 
dust with salt and pepper ; another layer of corn, then the 
tomatoes, bread crumbs, and so continue until all the in- 
gredients are used, having the last layer bread crumbs. 
Put bits of butter over the top and bake in a moderate 
oven a half hour. 



42 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

STEWED CORN. 

Husk the corn, remove the silk ; throw the ears into boiling 
water, boil five minutes ; drain and cool ; draw a sharp knife 
down the centre of each row of grains, press the corn out 
with a blunt knife, put in a saucepan, and to each pint add 
one teaspoonful of sugar, a half teaspoon ful of salt, one 
dash of pepper, a half cup of cream. Cook carefully for 
five minutes and serve very hot. 

The latter part of the preparation is best done in a double 
boiler, as corn scorches very quickly. 

TO WARM OVER COLD CORN. 

Cold corn left from dinner may be cut carefully from the 
cob, covered with milk, put in a double boiler and cooked 
ten minutes. Add butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

I quart of scraped corn, ^ pint of flour, 

'-^ pint of milk, I tablespoonful of melted butter, 

4 6ggs> % teaspoonful of salt. 

Scrape the corn and press out as previously directed on 
Page 40, Corn Fritters ; add the yolks of the eggs, milk, salt, 
melted butter and flour. Beat well, then stir in carefully 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and bake at once on a 
hot griddle. Do not add baking powder or extra flour, 
if you can possibly handle them. 

CORN GEMS. 

I pint of corn, 3 eggs, 

I pint of milk, l^ pints of flour, 

I tablespoonful of butter, Y^ teaspoonful of salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Scrape the corn and press it out as directed, on Page 40, 
Corn Fritters. Add to it the milk, salt, yolks of the eggs 



TO DRY CORN. 43 

and flour. Beat well and stir in carefully the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and the baking powder. 
Bake in greased gem pans in a moderate oven thirty 
minutes ; serve hot. These, if carefully made, are delicious 
breakfast cakes. 

TO HULL CORN. 
Put one pint of clear, hard wood ashes in two quarts of 
cold, soft water ; boil fifteen minutes, stand aside until the 
water is perfectly clear, then drain it off carefully. Dip 
your finger in the water, rub it against your thumb, and if 
it feels slippery, add as much cold water as will cover two 
quarts of white corn. Return the corn and the lye to the 
porcelain kettle, boil gently until the hulls begin to start ; 
then with a skimmer dip out the corn and throw it into a 
pan of clear, cold water. When you have it all out rub 
thoroughly with the hands to remove the hulls and also to 
cleanse the corn of the lye. It may be necessary to rub it 
through three or four fresh waters, but this washing must 
continue until the corn is perfectly free from the taste of 
lye. Then put it into clear water and boil until tender, 
about three or four hours. Drain, add a quarter of a 
pound of butter and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. 
A half pint of cream may also be added, if liked. This 
corn having been soaked in an alkali to remove the hull, 
has, of course, lost a quantity of corn oil and therefore 
makes a good summer food. 

TO DRY CORN. 

Remove the husks, score down the centre of each row 
of grains, then press out the pulp, leaving every particle 
of hull fast to the cob. Spread this pulp on tin sheets 
or in ordinary baking pans ; dry in the hot sun or in a 
very moderate oven, watching carefully and stirring occa- 



44 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

sionally that the corn may not lose its color. If the oven 
is just right three hours should dry it. As soon as it is thor- 
oughly dry take from the oven, and when cold put it into 
bags and hang in a cool, dry place. 

TO COOK DRY CORN. 

Cover one pint of corn with warm water and soak over 
night. In the morning, if the corn has absorbed all the 
water, add more and cook slowly on the back part of the 
stove for two hours. At the end of this time the water 
should be entirely absorbed ; if not, remove the lid and 
boil rapidly a few moments, then add a half cup of 
cream, one tablespoonful of butter, a palatable seasoning 
of salt and pepper. Serve very hot. 

CORN-SALAD. 

Corn-salad may be washed thoroughly in cold water and 
served with plain French dressing, or it may be cooked and 
served the same as spinach. 

SMALL EARS OF CORN PICKLED. 

For this select the very tiny ears of corn ; the ears must 
be sufficiently 3^oung for the cob to be easily penetrated 
with a fork. Take off the husks, remove the silk, throw the 
ears into boiling water, boil five minutes, drain. To each 
two dozen cobs allow one quart of cider vinegar, put it 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, add two bay leaves, a slice 
of onion, one dozen pepper-corns, a blade of mace, six 
whole cloves. Bring to boiling point, pour over the cobs ; 
stand aside twenty-four hours and they are ready for use. 

By adding two tablespoonfuls of chopped horse-radish, 
the cobs will keep nicely all winter. 



CORN IN TINS. 45 



SALTED CORN. 



Cut the corn from the cob uncooked. Put a layer in the 
bottom of a cask, then a layer of salt, another layer of corn, 
another layer of salt and so continue until the cask is full. 
Place a board on top of the corn, on which put a heavy 
stone and keep it below the brine. This cask may be filled at 
intervals by lifting the board, adding more corn and replac- 
ing it. After packing the corn, if you find in two or three 
days that there is not sufficient moisture to moisten the salt, 
add about one pint of water. Then as the juice comes 
from the corn there will be sufficient brine to cover it 
thoroughly. When the cask is filled, put a few horse-rad- 
ish tops underneath the board ; this will prevent souring 
and molding. Cover the cask with a cloth, tucking it in 
closely around the edges. Then put the board over the 
whole. 

I have known corn, if properly packed, to keep perfectly 
for two years. In the winter this may be cooked and 
served the same as fresh corn. Of course it must be soaked 
over night in water .to remove the salt. This is by far a 
more wholesome way of preserving corn than canning. 

CORN IN TINS. 

Remove the corn from the cob and pack uncooked into 
small tin cans. Put on the lids and solder in such a way 
as to hermetically seal. Stand these in a wash boiler, 
cover with cold water. Cover the boiler and place over 
the fire where the water will come gradually to a boil. 
Boil continually an hour and a half. Then take a small 
ice-pick or needle and puncture the centre of each lid. 
The hole should be like a pinhole. Allow the gases and 
steam to escape freely, then drop over the hole just one drop 
of solder. Be sure you have them thoroughly sealed. Con- 



46 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

tinue the boiling two and a half hours. If this process is 
strictly adhered to according to directions given, not one 
can in one hundred will be lost. It is far safer than using 
the glass jars, although even then there is little difficulty with 
care. 

Lima beans and corn may be mixed, boiled until thor- 
oughly done and canned as directed. 



SOUTHERN CORN PUDDING. 

Score twelve good sized ears of corn and with a dull 
knife press out the pulp. Add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
quarter teaspoonful of pepper and a pint of milk. Beat 
four eggs separately until very light, add first the yolks, then 
stir in the whites. Turn the mixture into a baking dish 
and bake in a quick oven until a nice brown and thoroughly 
set — that is, when you shake the dish the centre seems firm. 
If the pudding is cooked too long it becomes curdled and 
watery ; if not long enough, too liquid. 



CORN OYSTERS. 

Score and press the corn as directed in preceding recipe ; 
to every pint of pulp allow 

2 eggs, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of l dash of cayenne, 

flour, I dash of black pepper. 

Beat the eggs separately ; add first the yolks and then the 
whites to the corn, mix gently, add the salt, cayenne, black 
pepper and flour; mix again. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
lard or butter in a frying pan ; when hot, drop the mix- 
ture by spoonfuls into it ; when brown on one side, turn 
and brown the other. Serve very hot. 



SUCCOTASH. 47 



CORN PUDDING. 



I dozen large ears of young corn, i pint of milk, 
A ecrgs I teaspoonful of salt, 

^ teaspoonful of black pepper. 

Score the corn down the centre of each row of grains, 
then with the back of the knife press out all the pulp, 
leaving the hull on the cob. Beat the whites and yolks of 
the eggs separately, add the yolks to the corn, mix thor- 
oughly ; then add the salt, pepper and milk, and stir in 
carefully the whites of the eggs. Brush a pudding dish 
lightly with butter and pour in the mixture. Bake slowly 
one hour. Serve as an accompaniment to roast beef or 
lamb. 

SUCCOTASH. 

I pint of young lima or kidney }i pint of milk or cream, 

bgans I tablespoonful of butter, 

I pint of com pressed from the Salt and pepper to taste, 
cob, 

Shell the beans, cover them with boiling water, add a 
teaspoonful of salt and boil twenty-five minutes ; then add 
an eighth-teaspoonful of baking soda, boil one minute, then 
drain. Score the corn and press it from the cob, add it to 
the beans, then add the milk, butter, salt and pepper, stir 
continually over the fire for five minutes, and it is ready to 

serve. 

In winter, when the corn and beans are dried, soak both 
separately over night. In the morning, cover the beans 
with fresh water and boil gently for two hours. Do not 
drain the water from the corn, but keep it on the back part 
of the fire where it will not boil during the two hours the 
beans are boiling. When the beans are tender, drain 
them, add them to the corn, which should have just water 



48 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

enough to cover. Cook slowly for twenty minutes, then 
add the cream, butter, salt and pepper. 

This may also be made from canned corn and beans. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

1 quart of grated com, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
4 good sized potatoes, i pint of milk, 

2 medium sized onions, 6 water crackers, 
y^, pound of bacon or ham, Yolk of one egg, 

I large tablespoonful of butter, y^ pint of boiling water. 

Pare and cut the potatoes and onions into dice. Cut the 
bacon or ham into small pieces, put it into a frying pan 
with the onions and fry until a nice brown. Put a layer 
of potatoes in the bottom of a saucepan, then a sprinkling 
of bacon or ham and onion, then a layer of corn, then a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper, then a layer of potatoes and 
so on, until all is in, having the last layer corn. Now add the 
water and place over a very moderate fire and simmer for 
twenty minutes. Then add the milk. Rub the butter and 
flour together and stir into the boiling chowder. Add the 
crackers, broken ; stir ; and cook five minutes longer. 
Taste to see if properly seasoned, take it from the fire, add 
the beaten yolk of the ^gg and serve. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

6 cucumbers, l tablespoonful of butter, 

I tablespoonful of flour, i small onion, 

yi pint of stock. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Pare the cucumbers, cut into quarters, remove the seeds. 
Put the butter in a frying pan, add the onion sliced, fry 
until brown ; then add the cucumbers, shake them carefully 
until they are a light brown, then take them out carefully 
with an egg-slice. Add the flour to the butter remaining 



STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 49 

in the pan, mix until smooth ; add the stock, stir continu- 
ally until it boils, then add salt and pepper to taste. 
Return the cucumbers, cover and stew gently twenty min- 
utes ; serve on squares of buttered toast. These may be 
served with roasted chicken or baked fish. 



CUCUMBERS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

6 cucumbers, Yz pint of milk, 

I tablespoonful of flour, Salt and pepper to taste, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Pare the cucumbers, cut into quarters, remove the seeds, 
lay them in cold water for thirty minutes. Then put 
them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, boil thirty minutes. When done, lift them 
carefully with a skimmer and place them in a vegetable dish. 
Put half the butter in a saucepan ; when melted, add the 
flour, mix until smooth, add the milk ; stir continually 
until it boils, add the salt and pepper, take from the fire. 
Stir in the remaining quantity of butter, pour over the 
cucumbers and serve garnished with squares of fried bread. 



STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Cut each cucumber in halves and scrape out the seeds. 
To each six allow a half cup of bread crumbs, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped ham, one tablespoonful of parsley, 
one tablespoonful of chopped onion, salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix the ingredients together, fill the cucumbers, 
tie the two halves together, place them in a baking pan. 
Add one cup of water to the pan, cover with another pan 
and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve with drawn butter in a boat. The cucumbers may 
also be served in halves and the sauce poured over them. 
4 



50 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



FRIED CUCUMBERS. 



Pare the cucumbers, cut them in slices about a quarter 
of an inch thick, season with salt and pepper. Dip first 
in egg, then in bread crumbs. Put two tablespoon fuls of 
lard or dripping in a frying pan with salt. Put in a few 
slices of cucumber, fry brown and crisp on one side, then 
turn and fry brown on the other. Lift carefully, drain on 
brown paper, serve very hot with tomato catsup. 

CUCUMBERS FRIED IN BATTER. 

Pare the cucumbers, cut into slices about a sixteenth of 
an inch thick. Dredge them with salt and pepper. Beat 
one egg until light, add to it a half pint of milk, a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, one and a half cups 
of sifted flour. Beat until smooth. Dip the pieces of 
cucumber in this batter and drop, one at a time, into 
smoking hot fat. The fat must be deep enough to float 
them. When brown and crisp on one side, turn and fry 
brown on the other. Lift with a skimmer, as turning with 
a fork makes them heavy. Drain on brown paper and 
serve as an accompaniment to boiled or panned steak. 

TO SALT CUCUMBERS FOR PICKLING. 

Choose very small cucumbers and these as free from 
spots as possible. Put a layer in the bottom of a cask, then 
a layer of coarse salt, Liverpool is best. The layer of salt 
should be at least a quarter of an inch thick. On this put 
another layer of cucumbers, another of salt and so con- 
tinue until all the cucumbers are used. Place a board on 
top of the pickles, on which put a heavy stone to keep 
them down. If you gather the cucumbers from your own 
garden, do so as early in the morning as possible or late in 



TO SALT CUCUMBERS FOR PICKLING. 5 1 

the evening. I have known the cutting of cucumbers at 
midday to entirely ruin the vines. When twenty-five or 
thirty small cucumbers are packed, add a half pint of water 
to moisten the salt ; this, with the juice of the cucumbers 
that exudes, will make sufficient brine. If you wish to add 
a new supply of cucumbers each day to the cask, simply 
remove the board and stone and arrange in layers as 
directed. After the cask is filled, put a thick layer of 
horse-radish tops underneath the board, then cover the 
cask with a cloth, tucking it down tightly around the edge. 
In the winter when the cucumbers are wanted for pickling, 
carefully lift the cloth with the scum, wash the board, stone 
and cloth in clear warm water. Do not be alarmed at the 
heavy scum you may find on top, as this will not injure the 
cucumbers. Take out as many cucumbers as are wanted, 
wipe down the sides of the cask, return the board, stone 
and cloth. Cover closely as before. Put the cucumbers 
taken out in a large vessel of cold water and soak three 
days, changing the water each day. At the end of this 
time drain and wipe each cucumber carefully without 
bruising. If you have cabbage leaves at hand add three or 
four good-sized leaves to the pickles while soaking. Put 
into a porcelain-lined kettle a sufficient quantity of vinegar 
to cover the cucumbers; stand it over the fire. If you 
wish the pickles crisp at the expense of health, add a piece 
of alum the size of a hazel-hut. Let the whole come to a 
boil ; turn the cucumbers several times with a wooden 
spoon or those at the bottom will become soft and lose their 
crispness. The cucumbers, understand, must not be cooked, 
but simply made crisp by the heating vinegar. The 
moment it begins to steam or simmer take from the fire, 
drain the cucumbers and put them in a stone jar. Throw 
this vinegar away. Cover the cucumbers with fresh, cold 
vinegar; spices may be added according to taste. A table- 



52 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

spoonful of chopped horse-radish will prevent molding. 
They will be ready for use in about one week. 

SMALL CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Wash and wipe carefully a hundred tiny cucumbers, place 
them in jars. Put sufficient water in a porcelain-lined 
kettle to cover the cucumbers. When the water is boiling 
hot stir in enough salt to make a brine that will bear an 
egg. Pour this boiling brine over the cucumbers. Let 
them stand twenty-four hours, then take them out, wipe 
each carefully without bruising, place them in clean jars. 
Put sufficient vinegar in a porcelain kettle to cover them, 
add one onion sliced, twelve whole cloves, one ounce of 
mustard seed, three blades of mace. Let these come to 
boiling point, pour over the pickles, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped horse-radish, stand aside to cool. They 
will be ready to use in two weeks and will keep all winter, 

OILED PICKLES. 

lOO small cucumbers, )^ pound of ground mustard, 

I teaspoonful of black pepper, ^ pound of whole mustard, 

I quart of onions, I pint of olive oil, 

I ounce of celery seed, 2 quarts of cider vinegar. 

Pare the cucumbers and onions and cut them into thin 
slices. Put in a layer of cucumbers, then a layer of onions, 
then a layer of cucumbers and so continue until all have 
been used. Cover with a cold brine sufficiently strong to 
bear an egg, stand aside over night. In the morning drain, 
cover them with cold water, soak two hours and drain 
again. Put them in a porcelain-lined kettle with sufficient 
cold vinegar to cover them ; stand them over a fire until 
the vinegar is lukewarm, then stand away over night ; 
drain. This vinegar may be saved for other purposes, but 



SWEET PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 53 

cannot be used for the pickles. Now put the cucumbers 
and onions in glass quart jars. Mix the mustard, pepper 
and celery seed with the oil; then add, gradually stirring 
all the while, two quarts of cider vinegar. Pour this over 
the cucumbers and onions, fasten the jars and in two 
weeks the pickles will be ready for use and will keep all 
winter. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Pare and remove the seeds from two large, ripe cucum- 
bers, then grate them. Drain this pulp in a colander; 
there should be enough to measure one pint after all the 
juice is thoroughly drained away. Turn it into an earthen 
boiler ; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne, a half 
pint of cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of grated horse-radish ; bottle and seal. 
Serve with cold meats. 

It is especially nice with cold corned beef. 

SWEET PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare and cut in thick slices six good sized cucumbers; 
weigh and to each seven pounds allow four pounds of 
sugar and one pint of cider vinegar, twelve whole cloves, 
quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, two blades of mace. 

Put the sugar, vinegar and spices on to boil in a porce- 
lain kettle ; add the cucumbers to this, stand them over 
a very moderate fire, turning them carefully until each 
piece seems thoroughly cooked but not soft. Stand aside 
until morning; next day bring them again to a boiling 
point and stand aside to cool. Do this also the next 
morning. Then lift the cucumbers carefully, place them 
in jars ; boil the liquor down until the quantity is just 
sufficient to cover them. Pour this over hot, fasten the 
jars and stand in a cool, dry place to keep. 



54 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES. 

12 large cucumbers, i root of horse-radish, 

I onion, I small head of cabbage, 

^ ounce of cloves, ^ ounce of ginger, 

I teaspoonful of mace, 2 ounces of whole mustard seed, 

I tablespoonful of salt. 

Select the largest cucumbers you can find, but take them 
before they are too ripe or have yellow ends. Cut long, 
narrow pieces out of the sides of each and with a spoon 
scoop out the seeds. Chop the cabbage fine, add all the 
spices and seasoning to it. Fill the cucumbers with this 
mixture, put the piece into the side and tie it with twine. 
Put the cucumbers into a stone jar, cover with cold vinegar, 
add the horse-radish chopped fine, and in one week they 
will be ready for use. A few hot peppers placed here and 
there among the cucumbers improve the flavor. 

If the cucumber mangoes become flat or tasteless, drain 
off che vinegar and cover with fresh vinegar, adding also 
fresh horse-radish. 

WILTED DANDELIONS. 

Cut the roots from a quarter of a peck of young dande- 
lions. Of course these are not fit for food after they are 
old enough to blossom. Wash the leaves through several 
cold waters, drain and shake them dry. Take a handful 
of leaves, cut them with a sharp knife into small pieces and 
put them in a saucepan. Beat one egg until light, add to 
it a gill of cream, stir over a fire until it thickens. Add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Pour this over the dan- 
delions and stir over the fire just a moment until they are 
wilted and tender. Serve garnished with little rolls of 
crisp bacon. 



FRIED EGG-PLANT. 55 

DANDELIONS, (GERMAN STYLE). 

Cut the roots from a quarter of a peck of dandelions, 
wash and cut as directed in the preceding recipe. Cut a 
quarter of a pound of ham in dice, fry until a golden 
brown ; add one tablespoonful of vinegar. Beat one egg 
without separating, add to it two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
stir this quickly in with the ham, add a teaspoonful of 
onion juice, then the dandelions, stir over the fire one 
moment and serve very hot. 

Dandelions also make a delightful salad. See directions 
under Salads. 

ENDIVE. 

The delicate white endive, w4th French dressing, makes 
one of the most delightful dinner salads and may also be 
wilted the same as dandelions. 

SOUR OR NARROW DOCK. 

This common weed grows along the roadsides or rich pas- 
ture fields. The leaves are long, narrow and curly ; they 
may be cooked the same as spinach, but make a much more 
delicate green. It is supposed to possess alterative prop- 
erties, forming an excellent diet in scorbutic cases. As it 
grows early in the spring, long before the ordinary farmer 
has greens for the table, it makes an excellent accompani- 
ment to the salt meat that is so freely used by them. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Pare an egg-plant, cut it into slices a sixteenth of an 
inch thick. Beat an egg lightly, add to it a tablespoonful of 
hot water. Dip each slice first into the egg, then into bread 
crumbs. Put three tablespoonfuls of lard or dripping into 
a frying pan ; when hot cover the bottom, with slices of 



56 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

egg-plant. Fry brown on one side, then turn and fry- 
brown on the other ; a few slices only should be cooked at 
a time. As the fat is consumed add more, waiting each 
time for it to re-heat before putting in the egg-plant. 
Drain the egg-plant on brown paper and serve very hot 
with tom.ito catsup. 

EGG-PLANT IN BATTER. 

Prepare the egg-plant, cut into slices about a quarter of 
an inch thick, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a bat- 
ter precisely the same as for cucumbers in batter ; dip the 
egg-plant in the batter and fry the same as for fried egg- 
plant. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. 

Wash the egg-plant, put in a kettle, cover with boiling 
water and boil about half an hour or until tender. Then 
take it out, cut it into halves and carefully scrape out the 
soft portion. Leave the skin unbroken and a wall of suf- 
ficient thickness to hold it in position. Chop the egg- 
plant that you have scraped out, add to it a half cup of 
crumbs, a large tablespoonful of butter, a half teaspoonful 
of salt and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Mix 
well, put back in the skins, sprinkle the top lightly with 
bread crumbs and put in the oven a few minutes to brown. 

DRESSED EGG-PLANT. 

Pare the egg-plant, cut into slices, throw them into boil- 
ing water, add a teaspoonful of salt and boil twenty min- 
utes. Drain and chop fine. Add to it a large tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a level teaspoonful of 'salt, a dash of pepper, 
put in a saucepan, stirring continually unyi boiling hot. 
Serve in a heated dish. 



LENTILS. 5 7 

EGG-PLANT FARCIED. 

Take two small egg-plants, cut into halves, scrape out 
the centre, leaving a wall about one inch thick. Chop the 
white meat of one cooked chicken, add to it half a cup 
of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of onion juice, a half 
teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of melted ^jtter and 
a palatable seasoning of pepper. Put this in the centre of 
the egg-plant, sprinkling a few crumbs over the top. Cut 
one onion and one carrot into slices; put them in the bottom 
of a baking pan with a bay leaf, four cloves and a blade 
of mace. Stand the egg-plant on top, add a quart of 
stock and bake in a moderate oven one hour, basting from 
time to time with the stock in the pan. When done serve 
with Spanish sauce poured over it. 

LEEKS. 

These may be simply washed, thrown into cold water 
half an hour and served neatly on a pretty dish, or they 
may be cut into slices and dressed with French dressing. 

STEWED LEEKS. 

Trim and wash twenty-four leeks, throw in a kettle of 
salted, boiling water and boil thirty minutes. Drain, ar- 
range in a heated dish with the bulbs all one way. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, when melted add a 
tablespoonful of flour ; mix, and add a half pint of milk. 
Stir constantly until boiled, add a half teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of pepper ; pour over the leeks and serve hot. 

LENTILS. 

These are one of the most important of the leguminous 
seeds and are valuable for soups, stews and rice dishes in 
which there is a small allowance of nitrogenous elements. 



58 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

Wash and soak a pint of lentils over night, in the morn- 
ing drain, cover with warm, soft water and bring quickly 
to a boiling point. Boil gently about one hour, drain and 
cover again with fresh, boiling, soft water. Boil gently 
until the lentils are tender, about another hour. Press 
them between the thumb and fingers, if they mash quickly 
under pressure they are done. Drain in a colander. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, when melted 
add the lentils ; add one tablespoonful of onion juice, a 
palatable seasoning of salt and pepper ; stir over the fire 
about fifteen minutes and serve very hot. One or two 
tablespoonfuls of cream may also be added if liked. 

LENTILS WITH RICE. 

Boil the lentils as directed in the preceding recipe. 
Wash one cup of rice, throw it into a large kettle of boil- 
ing water and boil rapidly thirty minutes. Drain it in a 
colander and stand it at the oven door ten or fifteen min- 
utes to dry. Each grain must be swollen, white and free 
from all stickiness. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into 
a frying pan, when melted add one onion cut into thin 
slices. When the onion is golden brown add the lentils 
and rice, stir over the fire fifteen minutes, season with salt 
and pepper ; serve very hot. 

LENTIL ROLLS. 

Yi, cup of lentils, ^ cup of rice, 

^ cup of chopped ham, ^ cup of chopped uncooked 

12 nice, large vine or cabbage chicken, 

leaves, j/^ teaspoonful of coriander seed. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil the lentils and rice as directed in the preceding 
recipe and mix the two together. Mix the ham, chicken, 



CABBAGE LETTUCE WITH GRAVY. 59 

coriander seed, salt and pepper together ; then mix the 
rice and lentils. Scald the vine or cabbage leaves, shake 
them carefully to dry. Put two tablespoonfuls of the mix- 
ture in each leaf, roll loosely, folding in the ends. Tie 
with darning cotton and place each roll as finished in the 
bottom of a large saucepan. Cover with stock, add a bay 
leaf, one onion cut in slices and a blade of mace. Cover 
the saucepan and stew slowly three-quarters of an hour ; 
when done take out carefully with an egg-slice. Remove 
the strings and arrange the rolls neatly in a flat heated dish. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, when melted, 
add an even tablespoonful of flour, mix till smooth, then 
add a half pint of the stock in which the rolls were boiled, 
stir continually until thick and smooth. Add the salt and 
pepper, take from the fire, add the beaten yolk of an egg 
and two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Pour this over 
the rolls and serve. 

This may be served for lunch or as a course by itself. 

LETTUCE. 

All varieties of lettuce are used principally as salads, but 
the crisp, green leaves make a delightful garnish for cold 
meats, boned chicken or vegetable salads, 

CABBAGE LETTUCE WITH GRAVY. 

Take four full cabbage lettuces, trim off the loose outside 
leaves, throw the heads into boiling water five minutes, then 
drain and press them gently to press out the water. Cut 
them in halves and arrange neatly on a dish, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, tie the two halves together. Stand them 
in a saucepan, cover with one quart of water. Add about 
one pound of beef, or any fresh meat or pieces of meat left 
over will answer, add one onion, one blade of mace and a 



6o ' HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

bay leaf; cover the kettle and cook gently one hour. When 
done, lift carefully with a skimmer, cut the string and 
arrange the halves neatly on a dish, giving to each piece 
an oval and compact look. Lightly press it together with 
a spoon. Put one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, add 
a tablespoonful of flour ; boil rapidly the stock in which 
they were cooked until reduced to one pint ; add this to 
the butter and flour, stir continually until it boils. Strain 
over the lettuce leaves and serve garnished with squares of 
toasted bread. 

DUTCH LETTUCE. 

Wash carefully two cabbage lettuces, separate the leaves 
and tear each leaf into about three pieces. Cut a quarter 
of a pound of ham or bacon into dice and fry until brown ; 
while hot add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Beat one egg 
until light, add two tablespoonfuls of sour cream and stir 
into the ham. Stir this over a fire until it thickens and 
pour it while hot over the lettuce. Mix carefully with a 
fork and serve immediately. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

For baking choose the larger mushrooms ; peel, cut the 
stalks close to the top. Place them upside down in an 
earthen or porcelain dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
put a tiny piece of butter in each. Bake in a quick oven 
twenty minutes ; baste two or three times with melted 
butter. Serve hot on the dish in which they were baked. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Peel the large mushrooms, cut off" the stalks and dip them 

in melted butter. Dust them lightly with salt and pepper 

and let stand in a cool place thirty minutes. Then 

place them on a broiler top side down ; close the broiler 



MUSHROOMS. 6 1 

very carefully or you will break them into halves. Place 
them over a clear fire and broil slowly until tender ; they 
should be broiled first on one side, then turned and broiled 
on the other. Open the broiler carefially, remove the mush- 
rooms with a spoon, place them on small squares of but- 
tered toast. Pour melted butter in the centre of each 
and serve very hot. 

TO STEW CANNED MUSHROOMS. 

A can of mushrooms, I tablespoonful of butter, 

I tablespoonful of flour, Yolk of one egg, 

A tablespoonful of sherry, y^ pint of milk, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain the mushrooms and wash in cold water. Put the 
butter in a porcelain or granite saucepan, add the mush- 
rooms, stir over the fire about five minutes; dust them with 
flour, add the milk and stir continually until boiling hot, 
add the salt and pepper. Take from the fire, add the well- 
beaten yolk of the ^gg and the wine, and serve. 

In cooking canned mushrooms do not allow them to boil 
more than five minutes, as they are already cooked, and a 
second cooking toughens the mushrooms and renders them 
very indigestible. 

MUSHROOMS. 

It is highly important for those who employ mushrooms 
as food, to be able to distinguish those which are edible 
from the poisonous ones. The edible appear in old 
sod, in a clear, open, sunny field. They are at first very 
small on a short foot stalk, and are then known as button 
mushrooms. Their growth is rapid ; in an hour the under 
skin cracks and the mushroom then opens, spreading like 
an umbrella, and shows the gills underneath, which should 
be a pale salmon color. In an hour or so it again changes 



62 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

to a dark brown, and is then called *' old." According to 
M. Rictiard, even mushrooms which are usually edible may- 
prove poisonous, if collected too late, or in places which are 
too moist. 

The skin of the good mushrooms peels off easily. Those 
with yellow or white gills, and those which grow in low, 
damp, shady places, or around decayed stumps of old trees, 
or any other decayed matter, are to be avoided. 

The good mushrooms have invariably an agreeable smell, 
while the poisonous have a rank, putrid smell. It is always 
safe to use the canned mushrooms, which are convenient 
and cheap, but tough and indigestible, and we caution those 
who eat them to masticate diligently. 

It is said that one poisonous mushroom among a pint of 
good ones, will turn a silver spoon black, if stirred with 
it while they are stewing. 



DRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Wipe the mushrooms clean, and peel off the skin. Cover 
the bottoms of shallow baking-pans with white paper, put 
the mushrooms in a single layer on this, and stand in a cool 
oven to dry. When dry and shriveled, take them out, put 
in paper bags, and hang in a cool, dry place. 

When wanted for use, put them in cold water or milk, 
and bring slowly to a simmer. In this way they will regain 
nearly their natural size and flavor. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS, No. 1. 

Peel the mushrooms, wash them in cold water and cut off 
the bottom of the stalks. Then put them in a porcelain 
saucepan ; to every pint of mushrooms, add one table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Let the mushrooms 



OKRA OR GUMBO. 63 

cook in their own liquor and the butter for fifteen minutes, 
then add salt and pepper, and serve immediately. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS, No. 2. 

Peel the mushrooms, wash them in cold water and cut off 
the bottom of the stalks. Then put them into a porcelain- 
lined kettle ; to every pint of mushrooms add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter divided into four bits and rolled in flour. 
Let the mushrooms cook in their own liquor with the butter 
and flour for fifteen minutes, then add two tablespoon fuls 
of thick cream, salt and pepper to taste. Take from the 
fire, add the well-beaten yolk of one egg, and, if you use 
it, one tablespoonful of sherry. Serve immediately. 

MARTYNIAS. 

Pick two quarts of martynias. Wipe carefully with a soft 
cloth, take sufficient cider vinegar to cover, put in a porce- 
lain kettle, add a sliced onion, a dozen whole cloves, two 
blades of mace, two bay leaves. Put the martynias in a 
stone jar, pour the vinegar over while hot, add two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped horse-radish, fasten, and in three or 
four days they will be ready for use. 

OKRA OR GUMBO. 

This delightful vegetable is comparatively unknown to 
many persons living outside of large cities. It is whole- 
some and nutritious, and seems to be the proper thing to 
serve with tomatoes or rice. Gumbo soup of the South is 
a great delicacy, and those who have eaten the Brunswick 
stew in Virginia will never forget the delicious compound. 
They may be preserved for winter use by simply cutting 
them in rings and stringing them on cords to dry, or they 
may be canned the same as other vegetables. 



64 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

BOILED OKRA. 

Take one quart of young okra, wash well with cold 
water ; put it into a porcelain or granite kettle, as iron 
always discolors the okra. Put in a half pint of water and 
a teaspoonful of salt ; cover the kettle and swwier gently 
thirty minutes. Then add one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar and a dash of pepper. Serve as 
an accompaniment to roasted or boiled chicken. 

OKRA WITH TOMATOES. 

1 quart of okra, I pint of tomatoes, 

I tablespoonful of butter, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the okra, cut it into thin slices; scald and peel the 
tomatoes and cut them into small pieces. Put the butter 
in a porcelain or granite kettle, add a teaspoonful of salt, 
cover the kettle and simmer gently half an hour. Then add 
the butter and serve very hot. 

OKRA WITH RICE. 

I quart of okra, I pint of stock, 

3 good-sized tomatoes or a pint I onion, 

of stewed tomatoes, i tablespoonful of powdered, dry 

I red pepper, sassafras leaves (gumbo fillet 

1 cup of rice, powder), 

y2 pound of ham. 

Wash the okra, cut it into slices. Cut the ham into dice 
and fry it brown. Peel and cut the tomatoes, put them in 
a porcelain kettle with the okra, ham, stock, pepper and 
onion cut into slices. If you can get for this a ginny 
pepper the dish will be greatly improved. Cover the kettle 
and simmer gently thirty minutes. While this is cooking, 
wash and boil the rice. When the okra is done, arrange 



BOILED ONIONS. 65 

the rice in a mound in the centre of a dish, add the salt, 
pepper, and sassafras to the okra, boil up once, and pour it 
around the rice. 

This makes a very ^ood and sightly dish. It may be 
served as a separate course, alone, or as an accompaniment 
to chicken, mutton or veal. 

OKRA FRICASSEED WITH CORN. 

Cut one pint of okra into slices. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of drippings in a frying-pan, put in the okra with one 
slice of onion and turn till nicely browned, then add one 
dozen ears of corn scored and pressed out. Stir the corn 
and watch carefully until thoroughly cooked, about ten 
minutes. Then drain the contents of the pan to one side. 
Add to the fat in the pan two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix, 
add a half pint of milk, stir continually until boiling, add 
a level teaspoonful of salt and a dash of black pepper. 
Serve very hot. 

STEWED OKRA. 

Cut one pint of young okra into slices ; slice a good- 
sized onion, peel and cut in pieces six large tomatoes. Put 
them in a stewing-pan, add a tablespoonful of butter, tea- 
spoonful of salt and dash of pepper, and a half cup of 
w^ater. Stew till tender and serve with poultry. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

* 

I dozen onions, )4 pint of milk, 

I tablespoonful of flour, I tablespoonful of butter, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Remove the skins from the onions and throw them into 
cold water. If they are very strong, keep them under the 
water while you remove the skins. Put them into a large 

5 



66 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

saucepan of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and 
boil until you can pierce them easily with a fork, about 
forty minutes. They must be cooked thoroughly but not 
soft. Then drain them and return to the kettle. Dust 
them with flour, add the butter, then the milk. Shake them 
until boiling hot, season and serve. Serve with roasted 
chicken or turkey. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Remove the skins and cut the onions into slices, cover 
with boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt and boil 
twenty minutes. Drain. Put a large tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying-pan, when hot add the onions, fry thirty 
minutes, stirring frequently. Add the pepper and salt and 
serve with broiled or panned steak or fried calves' liver. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Choose large, perfect onions, trim the bottoms and 
remove one or two layers of the outside skin, but do not 
thoroughly peel them. Throw them in a kettle of boiling 
water, add a teaspoonful of salt, boil rapidly for about one 
hour ; then drain in a colander. If the onions are large 
they will not be soft in one hour, if small, cook, of course, 
a shorter time. Lift each one out separately, dry and roll 
in squares of tissue paper, twisting tightly at the top to keep 
it closed. Stand in a baking-pan and bake in a very slow 
oven one hour. When done, remove the paper, peel the 
onions, put them in a vegetable dish, pour melted butter 
over them, dust with salt and pepper and serve with roasted 
duck, turkey or chicken. 

Spanish onions are particularly nice served in this 
way. 



SCALLOPED ONIONS. 67 

STEWED ONIONS. 

Remove the skins from one quart of onions, throw them 
into cold water, put them in a saucepan, cover with stock 
and stew slowly one hour if young, two hours if large and 
old. They must be cooked until tender and soft. When 
done, drain and turn carefully into a vegetable dish. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, stir until brown ; 
then add one tablespoonful of flour, mix, add a half pint 
of the stock in which the onions were boiled. Stir con- 
tinually until it boils, add salt and pepper to taste, pour 
this over the onions and serve. 

STUFFED ONIONS. 

Boil six large onions without peeling for one hour. 
Drain, remove the skins, and with a sharp knife cut out the 
centre of each. Mix two tablespoon fuls of finely chopped 
cooked ham or tongue with a half cup of bread crumbs ; 
pour over this one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
tablespoonful of cream, a half teaspoonful of salt, and a dash 
of pepper. Fill the onions with this mixture, place them 
in a baking-pan, baste them with melted buttep, dust them 
with bread crumbs, and bake in a slow oven one hour. 
Serve with cream sauce poured over them. 

This is one of the most delightful ways of cooking 
onions, and they may be served with poultry, roasted or 
braised, or as a garnish for hot beef a la mode. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Peel twelve good-sized onions and boil them one hour, 
drain and cut them into small pieces. Put a layer in the 
bottom of a baking-dish, sprinkle over them a layer of 



68 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

crumbs, then a sprinkling of cheese and a few bits of butter. 
Put in another layer of onions, crumbs, cheese, and so 
continue until the dish is full. Have the last layer crumbs. 
Put bits of butter over the top, add a half cup of cream, 
dust with salt and pepper and bake in a moderate oven 
one hour. 

ONIONS GLAZED. 

Peel twelve good-sized onions, throw them in boiling 
water, boil twenty minutes. Drain and throw them into 
cold water, peel off the first two skins; scrape out the 
middle of the onion with a teaspoon, making a well about 
the size of a hickory nut. Put an ounce of butter in a 
frying-pan, stand the onions bottom side down in the butter. 
Put a half teaspoonful of sugar in each onion and cook 
slowly over a fire until soft and slightly colored. Do not 
allow the butter to burn. Add a half pint of stock, cover 
the pan and let them cook slowly until the stock is reduced 
to the consistency of molasses. Baste the onions constantly 
with this liquor until they are thoroughly glazed, and they 
are ready to use as a garnish for roast beef or broiled steak, 
or are frequently served as a garnish to baked rabbits. 



ONION OR SAUCE SOUBISE. 

Peel and cut in slices three large onions. Put them into 
a saucepan with one ounce of butter, cover, and simmer 
gently about three-quarters of an hour; the onions must 
be colored. When tender and soft, add a tablespoonful of 
flour, mix and press through a colander. Add one gill of 
stock and one gill of cream, stir continually until it boils. 
Add a half teaspoonfyl of salt, a dash of pepper, a grating 
of nutmeg and it is ready to serve. 



BOILED PARSNIPS. 69 

ONION VINEGAR. 

1 quart of cider vinegar, 2 large Spanish onions or 4 ordi- 

2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar, nary white onions, 

I teaspoonful of salt. 

Peel and grate the onions, mix with them the salt and 
sugar. Let it stand two hours and add the vinegar. Turn 
into bottles and shake every day for two weeks. Strain 
through cheese-cloth, bottle and cork. 

This may be used for salads or may be added to French 
dressing instead of plain vinegar, and may be used in stews 
or other dishes where a very delicate onion flavor is de- 
sired. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Peel the small white button onions, and pour over them 
boiling brine that is sufficiently strong to bear an egg. Let 
it stand twenty-four hours, drain and put in bottles. Take 
sufficient vinegar to cover the onions, add spices to taste, 
and pour over the onions boiling hot. When cool fasten, 
and they will be ready to use in four or five days and will 
keep all winter. If the slightest mould appears on the sur- 
face, drain off the vinegar and cover with fresh, hot vinegar. 

PARSNIPS BOILED, WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

If they are young and tender scrape them and throw 
each as soon as finished into cola water, to prevent discol- 
oration. If old they must be pared and cut into quarters 
lengthwise. Put them in a saucepan of boiling water and 
boil till tender. If young, three-quarters of an hour, if 
old, one hour and a quarter will be needed. When tender, 
drain, put on a heated dish heads all one way ; cover with 
Cream Sauce or English drawn butter and serve with corned 
beef or boiled salt fish. 



70 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil as directed in preceding recipe ; when done, drain, 
season with salt and pepper, dip first in melted butter, then 
in flour and dust with sugar. Put two tablespoon fuls of 
drippings or lard into a frying-pan, when hot, put in 
enough parsnips to cover the bottom of the pan. Fry 
brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. 
Serve with roasted pork. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

4 good-sized parsnips, I tablespoonful of flour, 

I egg. 

Boil the parsnips until tender, when done, drain and 
mash through a colander. Add the flour and well-beaten 
egg, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Mix 
well and form into small, round cakes. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of drippings into a frying pan, when hot put in 
the cakes. Brown on one side, then turn and brown on 
the other. Drain on brown paper and serve with roasted 
or spiced beef. 

BAKED PARSNIPS. 

6 good-sized parsnips, i tablespoonful of butter, 

I tablespoonful of flour, j^ teaspoonful of salt, 

Dash of pepper. 

Wash and scrape the parsnips, cut them in halves ; put 
them into a saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil 
one hour. Drain, and put them on a hot dish. Put the 
butter in a frying-pan, add to it the flour, mix until smooth 
without browning. Add a half pint of the water in which 
the parsnips were boiled, stir and boil five minutes. Add 
the salt and pepper, pour over the parsnips, dust with 
crumbs, and if liked, a little cheese. Bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. 



GREEN PEAS. 71 



GREEN PEAS. 



Peas, like corn, lose their sweetness very quickly after 
picking. If necessary to keep them over night, they 
should be spread out on a cloth on a cool cellar floor. If, 
however, you should be so unfortunate as to get stale or 
wilted peas, they should be shelled at once, thrown into 
cold water at least one hour before cooking, and then a 
teaspoonful of sugar should be added to the water in which 
they are boiled. This artificial flavoring will only partly 
restore the flavor of the peas. Fresh peas, however, should 
not be shelled until just before cooking. They should 
then be washed quickly in cold water, thrown in a kettle 
of salted boiling water, and boiled ten or fifteen minutes. 
Long boiling cracks the skins and destroys the color and 
flavor of the peas. When tender, drain, turn into a hot 
dish, add a lump of butter. Dust with salt and pepper 
and serve at once. 

The most important point in cooking peas is to have 
plenty of water. The water must be slightly salted and 
the peas boiled just long enough to become tender, and 
drained at once. In this way they will retain their color 
and sweetness. There are many varieties of .peas, many of 
which are coarse and only fit for drying. The choice 
kinds of garden peas are, of course, sweet, nutritious and 
wholesome. There is also a kind of pea called sugar pea, 
the pods of which are gathered young and cooked and 
eaten with the seeds in, the same way as we use string 
beans. Boiled, and dressed with butter, salt and pepper, 
they are delicious. 

If peas are old or have been picked some time before 
cooking, it is very difficult to make them tender. Indeed, 
the longer they are boiled, the harder they become. In 
this condition they are not digestible. It is best to save 



72 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

them for another meal, and by pressing them through a 
sieve they may be made into a palatable and digestible 
soup. 

TO CAN PEAS. 

Fill glass jars full of uncooked peas, then pour in suffi- 
cient cold water to fill to the very top, and lay the tops on 
the jars. Place straw or hay in the bottom of a wash 
boiler ; place the jars on this, or better still, stand in a 
wire frame. Pour around sufficient cold water to half 
cover the jars. Put the boiler over a moderate fire, cover 
closely with the lid and boil steadily three hours. Lift out 
the jars, see that each is filled with boiling water to over- 
flowing, screw on the covers as tightly as possible, stand 
aside, where the air will not strike them, to cool. When 
cold, again screw the covers, wipe the jars, and place them 
in a dark, cool, dry place. If the peas shrink in cooking, 
it is well to empty one jar to fill the others. 

OMELET WITH PEAS. 

Boil one cup of shelled peas in salt water fifteen min- 
utes. Drain, and keep hot while you make an omelet. 

Beat four eggs without separating until well mixed, add 
to it four tablespoon fuls of warm water, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut and about four drops of onion juice. 
Put another piece of butter the same size in a perfectly 
smooth frying-pan ; when the butter is hot turn in the eggs. 
Shake over a quick fire until the eggs are set. Lift one 
side of the omelet, allowing the soft portion to run under- 
neath, dust with salt and pepper. Put two tablespoon fuls 
of cooked peas in the centre of the omelet, fold one-half 
over the other and turn it out on a heated dish. Season 
the remaining quantity of peas, add one tablespoon ful of 
melted butter to them. Pour around the omelet and serve 



PEPPER MANGOES. 73 

at once. This makes an exceedingly nice entree at dinner 
or a nice dish for supper or lunch. 

TO COOK CANNED PEAS. 

After opening the can drain the peas, throw them into 
cold water and drain again in a colander. Put them in a 
saucepan, and to each pint can allow one tablespoonful of 
butter, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 
Shake gently until they are thoroughly hot and serve at 
once. 

PEAS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Put one quart of peas in a kettle of salted, boiling 
water and cook fifteen minutes ; drain. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
mix. Add a half pint of milk, stir continually until boil- 
ing; add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and 
then the peas. Stand over boiling water about five min- 
utes and serve as a garnish to baked, broiled or fried 
sweetbreads or squabs. 

SUGAR PEA PODS. 

Select young, tender pods, wash them in cold water, 
throw them in a kettle of boiling water, add a teaspoonful 
of salt and boil thirty minutes. Drain, turn into a heated 
dish, pour over Cream Sauce and serve ; or they may be 
served with butter, salt and pepper. 

These are also nice boiled and put with mixed pickles. 

PEPPER MANGOES. 

Cut the tops from one dozen red and one dozen green 
peppers, and if you have them, from one dozen sweet pep- 
pers. Remove the seeds, save the tops. Stand the pep- 



74 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

pers upright in a tub, put one teaspoonful of salt in each, 
cover with cold water. Soak over night. In the morning 
drain, and wash well in cold water. Cut three good-sized, 
hard heads of cabbage on a slaw cutter, add to it one tea- 
spoonful vof ground allspice, a half cup of mustard seeds, 
two tablespoon fuls of salt, and, if liked, one teaspoonful 
of ground mace. Mix thoroughly and stuff the mixture 
in the peppers. Put on the tops and tie with soft twine. 
Stand upright in stone jars, cover with cold vinegar. 
Stand aside one week ; drain off the vinegar. Cover with 
fresh cold vinegar. Add one cup of nasturtiums or two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped horse-radish. , 

PICKLED PEPPERS. 

Take one dozen large, green peppers, six red peppers, 
six yellow sweet peppers. Make a small incision at one 
side and carefully remove the seeds without breaking the 
peppers. Make brine sufficiently strong to float an egg. 
Pour over the peppers and stand aside over night. Next 
morning drain, and wash carefully in cold water. Put one 
quart of vinegar in a porcelain kettle, bring to boiling 
point, pour over the peppers and stand aside to cool. 
When cold, drain, throw this vinegar away. If the vine- 
gar is very strong, add an equal quantity of cold water. 
Take sufficient fresh vinegar to cover the peppers, bring to 
boiling point, pour this over the peppers, and when cold 
put them away for use. 

These are nice to mix with cabbage for pepper sauce 
during the winter. 

PEPPER SAUCE. ' 

Chop one red and one green pepper fine. Cut one 
hard head of cabbage on a slaw cutter. Mix with it two 
tablespoonfuls of whole mustard seed, one tablespoonful 



STUFFED PEPPERS. 75 

of whole allspice, one tablespoonful of cloves and then 
add the chopped peppers. Add a tablespoonful of salt, 
mix, and pack in jars. Cover with cold vinegar, stand 
aside over night and it is ready to use. 

Pepper sauce is much better freshly made. It is not 
good over four days old. 



TO PICKLE CAPSICUMS. 

Pick the capsicums just as they are turning red. Make 
a slit in the sides of each, take out the seeds, throw them 
into salt anc^ water two days. Drain, put them in glass 
jars, cover A^^ith cold vinegar, cork and stand in a cool 
place. 

They will keep for several years, and as the vinegar is 
used off cover with fresh vinegar. They may be added 
to sauces or salads. 



STUFFED PEPPERS. 

For this use the sweet Spanish peppers, and to each six 
allow a half pint of chopped cooked chicken, a half pint of 
stale bread crumbs, a level teaspoonful of salt and a salt 
spoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cut off the stem end of the peppers and remove the 
seeds. Throw them in a saucepan of boiling water and 
cover; stand on the back of the stove fifteen minutes. 
Mix all the ingredients together except the butter. Melt 
it and pour over after you have everything thoroughly 
mixed. Drain the peppers, fill with the stuffing, sprinkle 
the tops with bread crumbs. Put here and there bits of 
butter, stand in a baking-pan, and bake in a quick oven 
fifteen minutes. Serve with roasted beef. 



76 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

POKE STALKS. 

In the spring the young shoots of poke are much used as 
food. They should never be taken over three inches long, 
and should show only a small tuft of leaves at the top. 
Older or larger than this they are poisonous. Wash thor- 
oughly in cold water one hour, tie in bundles like aspara- 
gus, put into a kettle of boiling water, add a teaspoonful 
of salt and boil three-quarters of an hour. Put them on 
buttered toast after draining, heads all one way. Cover 
with drawn butter and serve. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes, one of the. most important of vegetables, are 
served in nearly every household every day, and out of 
every ten plates that go to the table only one is really per- 
fect. In the winter when potatoes are crisp and fresh they 
should be put on to boil in boiling water, but in the spring 
of the year, when soft and wilted, they should be soaked in 
cold water and then put to cook in cold water. Sprouts 
grow at the expense of the starch. The potatoes are not 
so nutritious and are much harder to cook mealy and pal- 
atable. Salt should not be added to potatoes until they 
are boiled and drained. It then assists in absorbing the 
moisture, and the potato will become dry and mealy. 

As the nutritious part lies near the skin, peel as thin as 
possible and throw each potato into cold water as soon as 
pared. Select potatoes of the same size for cooking, all 
the large potatoes should be cooked at one time, medium 
sized at another, and the small ones at another. As the 
starch cells are thicker around the outside, the cutting of 
a large potato to make it correspond in size to the smaller 
ones, allows the water to penetrate and the potato becomes 
sodden and heavy. Potatoes boiled in their jackets are 



BOILED POTATOES. 77 

without doubt better than those that are pared. The saline 
constituents of the potato are potash, and when pota- 
toes are pared a large percentage of these salts, which are 
freely soluble in water, are drawn out into the water, and 
the potato has rather a flat taste. This also contradicts 
the idea of a simple paring around the potato. The salts 
dissolve out if the skin is broken. ^ 

The temperature of boiling water is 212° Fahrenheit 
under ordinary atmospheric pressure. If the water boils 
slowly the potatoes will cook just as quickly as though it 
were boiling at a gallop ; and the outside will not be boiled 
soft and to pieces while the inside is under done. Where 
the potatoes are large, the boiling may be checked for a 
moment just before the potatoes are done, and the inside 
then will be soft as well as the outside. 

Potatoes require to be cooked to render them palatable 
and digestible. This cooking may be either by boiling, 
baking, steaming or frying, but frying potatoes is the most 
indigestible way of cooking them. Potatoes that have 
been once boiled and then fried, unless they are fried care- 
fully in butter, are the most unwholesome and indigestible 
of foods. Boiled potatoes are almost as difficult of diges- 
tion. Steaming is perhaps a better method of cooking 
than boiling, but baking is better than either of the above 
methods. Young potatoes, which may be in the early 
spring more tempting than old ones, are by far more indi- 
gestible. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Peel the potatoes, throw them into cold water, then put 
them in a kettle and cover with boiling water. Do not 
give them a tremendous bath, simply cover them. Put on 
the lid of the kettle and boil slowly until the potatoes are 
soft enough to admit a fork easily. This will take about 



78 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

thirty minutes. Remember, if you allow the potatoes to re- 
main in the water one moment after they are done, they be- 
come waxy and heavy, and nothing you can do will restore 
them to their mealy condition. The moment they are ten- 
der, drain them, sprinkle with salt, stand on the back part 
of the range uncovered, giving them an occasional tossing. 
In a few moments the potato will be mealy and dry, the 
outside starch cells shining like silver. All varieties and 
even potatoes not strictly first-class, if treated in this man- 
ner, will be comparatively good. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes in dice. To every quart of 
dice allow two tablespoonfuls of butter, two even table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of 
salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. 

Put the butter in a saucepan to melt, add the flour, mix 
until smooth, add the milk, stirring constantly until it 
boils. Add the salt and pepper and mix the whole care- 
fully with the potatoes. Turn them into a baking-dish, 
cover the top thickly with stale bread crumbs, put a few 
bits of butter here and there and bake in a quick oven 
until a golden brown. Serve in the dish in which they 
are cooked. 

STEAMED POTATOES. 

Wash and scrub the potatoes, place them in a steamer, 
or without a steamer, place them in a colander over a ket- 
tle of boiling water. Cover and steam about thirty-five or 
forty minutes, or until you can pierce them readily with a 
fork. Allow ten minutes longer for steaming than for 
boiling potatoes of equal size. When done, remove the 
skins quickly and serve in an uncovered dish. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 79 

In fact, plain boiled or steamed potatoes should be 
served in a napkin in a potato bowl. 



MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil as directed for plain boiled potatoes. When don^ 
mash quickly in a vegetable press or use a wire masher. 
To each six potatoes allow a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, one gill of boiled milk or cream, a teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of pepper. Beat with a wooden fork till 
very light. Serve in a heated, uncovered dish. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

2 cups plain mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 
I teaspoonful of onion juice, i teaspoonful of salt. 

Grating of nutmeg, Yolks of two eggs, 

I tablespoonful of chopped pars- Piece of butter the size of a wal- 
ley, nut, 

Dash of cayenne. 

Beat the yolks, add the potatoes and then add all the 
other ingredients, mix, and turn into a small saucepan. 
Stir over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the 
pan. Take from the fire and when cool, form into small 
cylinders. Beat an egg without separating, add to it a 
tablespoonful of warm water. Dip the cylinders first in this 
and then into bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Potato croquettes are the hardest of all croquettes to fry. 
If the covering cracks, allowing the potatoes to escape, 
the fat is not sufficiently hot or the covering has not been 
put on perfectly. See that the ends are thoroughly covered 
with both egg and bread crumbs. The quantity given 
will make twelve croquettes. Cold mashed potatoes may 
be used. 



8o HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

POTATO PUFF. 

2 cups of mashed potatoes, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 

2 eggs, I tablespoonful of butter, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the potatoes in a saucepan, add the yolks, cream, 
and seasoning, stirring constantly over the fire until the 
potatoes are very light and hot. Take from the fire and 
stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Put 
the potatoes carefully in a greased baking dish, or into 
small gem pans. Bake in a quick oven until brown. 

BOULETTES OF POTATO. 

2 cups of mashed potatoes. Yolks of two eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream, I teaspoonful of powdered sweet 

I teaspoonful of onion juice, marjoram, 

Piece of butter the size of a I tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
walnut, ley. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolks lightly, add the potatoes, then add all 
the other ingredients. Mix well, put them in a saucepan, 
and stir over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of 
the pan. Take fi-om the fire. When cold, form into bul- 
lets. Dip first in egg then into bread crumbs and fry in 
smoking hot fat. Use as a garnish to boiled or baked fish. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare six potatoes and cut into dice. Throw them into 
cold water fifteen minutes. Drain, cover with boiling 
water and boil ten minutes after they begin to boil. Then 
drain off every drop of water, put the potatoes in a double 
boiler, dredge with a tablespoonful of flour, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, half a pint of milk ; cover and cook 



HASHED BROWNED POTATOES. 8l 

gently fifteen minutes. Season witli salt and pepper and 
serve in a heated dish. 

POTATOES WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Prepare the potatoes as directed for stewed potatoes. 
After they are drained turn into a heated dish, pour over 
the Cream Sauce, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve. 

POTATOES au GRATIN. 

y^ pint of milk, I tablespoonful of flour, 

Yolks of four eggs, Yz pint of stock, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 

6 boiled potatoes, Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Cut the potatoes into slices and put them into a baking- 
dish. Put the butter in a saucepan to melt, add the flour, 
mix, add the stock and cream, stir continually until they 
boil ; take from the fire, add the cheese, the yolks, well 
beaten, salt and cayenne. Pour this over the potatoes, 
sprinkle bread crumbs over the top, put in a quick oven 
ten minutes to brown. Serve in the dish in which they 
were baked with duck, roasted wild turkey, mutton or 
game. 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES. 

Chop two cold boiled potatoes fine, dust with salt and 
pepper. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, 
when hot put in the potatoes. Spread them out perfectly 
even and about half an inch in thickness. Stand the pan 
over a moderate fire and cook slowly without stirring for 
about fifteen minutes. Then begin at one side of the pan 
and roll over carefully as for an omelet. Pack or bank the 
potatoes against one side of the pan. Take a small meat 
dish, place it against the side of the pan, turn the pan over, 
6 



82 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

turning out the potatoes on to the dish in a roll nicely 
browned over the outside. Considerable practice is re- 
quired before one can manage the roll without breaking. 

HASHED POTATOES WITH CREAM. 

Chop fine four cold boiled potatoes, put them in a sauce- 
pan with a half pint of cream, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
dash of pepper, grating of nutmeg and two ounces of but- 
ter. Shake over a fire until very hot and serve at once. 

After these are very hot they may be turned into a 
baking-dish, dusted with bread crumbs and baked in a 
quick oven until golden brown, and are then called Del- 
monico potatoes. 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES IN THE OVEN. 

Cut into dice four good-sized cold boiled potatoes, put 
them in a baking-dish and just cover with cream. Add a 
teaspoonful of butter cut into bits and bake in a moderate 
oven about thirty minutes. Serve in the dish in which 
they are baked. These are delicious served with broiled or 
panned steak. 

PANNED POTATOES. 

Chop fine two uncooked potatoes, put them in a shal- 
low baking-dish. Add two ounces of butter, a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. Cover with crumbs 
and bake them in a moderate oven three-quarters of an 
hour. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare six good-sized potatoes and throw them into cold 
water. Then with a potato scoop, scoop out into little 
round balls. This scoop may be purchased at a hardware 
store for twenty-five cents. Throw these balls into boiling 



POTATOES. 8;^ 

water, boil five minutes, drain. Then put them in a frying- 
pan a few at a time. Sink them in a pan of smoking hot 
fat and fry a golden brown. When done, drain, sprinkle 
with salt and serve as a garnish to boiled or baked fish, or 
serve plain for breakfast. 

POTATO SAUTES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice ; to each good-sized 
potato allow a tablespoonful of butter. Put it in a frying- 
pan; when hot put in the potatoes, a few at a time. Never 
put in more than will nicely cover the bottom of the pan. 
Stir carefully and cook the potatoes a golden brown. Dust 
with salt and pepper, turn into a heated dish and serve 
hot. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut two cold boiled potatoes into dice. Put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying-pan. When hot, add one 
onion sliced; stir until the onion is a golden brown. Add 
the potatoes, cook slowly until the potatoes are lightly 
colored, sprinkle with salt. Turn into a hot dish, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve. These are exceedingly 
nice served with broiled steak, fried chicken or fried liver. 

POTATOES, a la HOLLANDAISE. 

Peel six good-sized potatoes and cut them in balls with 
a potato scoop. Throw the balls in boiling water and boil 
five minutes. When done, drain, put in a saucepan, add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, put them on the back part of the 
range, shaking occasionally until the potatoes absorb the 
butter entirely and they are thoroughly tender. Turn into 
a hot dish, pour over Sauce HoUandaise and serve with 
baked or boiled fish. 



84 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

POTATOES, a la DUCHESSE. 

2 cups of mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

2 eggs, I teaspoonful of .salt, 

I teaspoonful of sugar. 

Add the butter, salt and sugar to the potatoes, mix and 
stir till light, then add two eggs well beaten. Form into 
oval cakes, brush the tops with melted butter. Place them 
on a greased paper and run them in the oven until the tops 
are nicely browned. Serve with fricassee of chicken or 
rabbit. 

RAGOUT OF POTATOES. 

6 potatoes, I tablespoonful of chopped Chervil, 

6 leeks, 12 stalks of asparagus, 

I tablespoonful of butter, ^ pint of milk, > 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the potatoes in dice, throw them into boiling water, 
add the leeks cut into slices. Boil ten minutes and drain. 
At the same time boil and drain the asparagus, but in a 
separate kettle. Now mix the two together. Put the 
butter in a saucepan, add the milk and Chervil, salt and 
pepper, stir carefully over the fire until scalding hot. Pour 
it over the potatoes, bring to boiling point and serve. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare two large potatoes, cut them into very thin slices 
lengthwise. Throw them in cold water about one hour ; 
less time will answer perfectly well. When ready to fry 
take out a few pieces at a time and dry on a soft towel. 
Have ready a kettle of smoking lard; put the slices in a 
frying basket, or you can throw them into the fat, lift 
and stir with a skimmer ; when light brown take out, place 
on a soft brown paper in a colander, dredge with salt and 



STUFFED POTATOES. 85 

Stand in the oven to keep warm while you fry the remain- 
der. These may be served for breakfast or as a garnish for 
broiled steak or chops. 

BAKED PpTATOES. 

As potatoes contain potash, an important constituent of 
the blood, freely soluble in water, they are much more 
wholesome and easily digested baked than boiled, and 
should always be given to invalids or dyspeptics in this 
form. 

Wash and scrub the potatoes, place them in a baking- 
pan, then in a quick oven to bake thirty minutes. The 
time depends on the size of the potatoes, but bake until 
they mash gently between the thumb and finger. Do not 
try them by piercing with a fork, as this breaks the 
skin and allows the steam to escape and the potato will be 
heavy and watery. Cold baked potatoes left over may be 
made into stuffed potatoes and put away for another meal, 
but they must be stuffed while warm and then baked when 
needed. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

6 good-sized potatoes, I tablespoonful of butter, 

1 gill of hot milk, I tcaspoonful of sak, 

2 eggs, Dash of pepper. 

Bake the potatoes till done, then cut in halves and with 
a spoon scrape out the potato into a hot bowl. Leave 
sufficient potato in the skins to keep them in shape. Mash 
the potato fine, add the butter, hot milk, salt and pepper. 
Beat until very light, then stir in carefully the well-beaten 
whites of eggs. Fill the skins with this mixture, heaping 
them up. Brush over with yolk of egg and put in the 
oven till golden brown. 



S6 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

POTATOES BAKED WITH MEAT. 

Wash and pare potatoes of uniform size, and one hour 
before the meat is done put the potatoes into the baking- 
pan, around it. Baste them with the dripping every time 
you baste the meat. Turn them once or twice. Potatoes 
cooked in this way are palatable but rather difficult to 
digest. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

6 good-sized potatoes, I tablespoonful of butter, 

I good-sized onion, }{ pound of bacon or ham, 

I tablespoonful of chopped pars- A pint of milk and a pint of 
ley, water, 

I tablespoonful of flour. 

Pare and cut the potatoes in dice. Chop an onion fine. 
Cut the bacon or ham into small pieces and put it in a 
frying-pan. Add the onion, cook until a light brown. 
Put one layer of potatoes in the bottom of a saucepan, 
then sprinkle over the ham and onion, the parsley, salt and 
pepper. Then another layer of potatoes, then ham and 
onion and so continue until all the materials are used. 
Add the water, cover closely and cook on the back part of 
the stove twenty minutes. Then add the milk ; rub the 
butter and flour together, then stir carefully into the boil- 
ing chowder. Cook one moment, taste to see if properly 
seasoned and serve very hot. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Steam six good-sized potatoes in their jackets. When 
done peel and mash them. Add to them while hot one 
tablespoonful of butter, a half pint of cream, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and pepper to taste. Beat till smooth and 



WHITE POTATO CUSTARD. 87 

light. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir gently into the potatoes. Heap them on a baking-dish 
or drop by spoonfuls on greased paper. Dust with grated 
cheese and put in a quick oven till a golden brown. Serve 
hot. 

POTATO CASSEROLE. 

2 cups of mashed potatoes, Yolks of four eggs, 

I tablespoonful of butter, I gill of cream. 

Add the yolks of the eggs, cream and butter to the pota- 
toes and stir over the fire until hot. Beat until very light, 
add the salt and pepper to taste. Form this mixture in a 
neat border on a tin sheet or old platter. Brush it over 
with beaten egg, put in the oven until a golden brown. 
Fill the space with fricasseed chicken, rabbit, or fricassee 
of veal, and serve. 

POTATOES, a la MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Boil four good-sized potatoes and cut them into dice. 
Put them in a saucepan, add a half pint of stock, cook 
slowly about ten minutes. Season with salt and pepper 
and turn them into a heated dish. Have ready one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice well rubbed together. 
Spread this over the potatoes and serve at once. These are 
nice served with broiled, salt fish. 

WHITE POTATO CUSTARD. 

Grate four good-sized potatoes into one quart of milk. 
Beat four eggs without separating until light, add the milk 
and potato. Add one cup of sugar, a teaspoonful of cin- 
namon, a grating of nutmeg, or you may add the juice 
and rind of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, pour into deep 
pans lined with paste, bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. 



8S HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

WHITE POTATO PIE. 

To one cup of mashed potatoes add one pint of milk 
and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. Mix and add 
one cup of sugar and the juice and rind of one lemon. 
Turn this into a deep dish lined with paste, bake in a 
quick oven thirty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs 
until light, add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and 
beat white and stiff. Heap this over the pie, put back in 
the oven a few moments to brown. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Sweet potatoes contain less starch and more sugar than 
whites. They must be cooked in a rather more careful 
manner. They should be mealy and tender when done, 
not heavy and sodden. 

ROASTED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and scrub those of a uniform size ; do not cut or 
scratch the skin. Put them in a baking-pan, place them 
in a hot oven and bake until when pressed with the hands 
they seem mellow in the centre. Do not pierce them with 
a fork ; serve them in their jackets. Roasted potatoes must, 
of course, be served at once when taken from the oven, or 
they become heavy. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and scrub potatoes of a uniform size. Do not 
break the skins, put them in a kettle of boiling water and 
boil until, when pierced with a fork, they seem a little 
hard in the centre. Drain, put them in a baking-pan, run 
them in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. In this way 
the potatoes become mealy and dry. Remove the skins 
when baked and serve in an uncovered dish. 



SWEET POTATO BREAD. 89 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

After the potatoes have been boiled and dried in the 
oven, remove the skins and cut into halves. Put three 
tablespoon fuls of drippings in a large frying-pan. Dust 
the potatoes with salt, pepper and sugar, put them into the 
hot fat and turn carefully until browned on both sides. 
Serve very hot. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES, Southern Style. 

Boil dry and skin six good-sized sweets. Mash them 
fine, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, a half teaspoonful of salt, beat until light. Put 
them into a baking-dish and when there is enough, smooth 
over the top. Brush with milk, and bake in a moderate 
oven until a light brown. Serve as a separate course by 
itself. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil dry and skin six good-sized sweet potatoes. Mash, 
add a tablespoonful of butter, a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper. Mix, form into cylinders, dip first in egg 
and then in bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Serve with roast meat, poultry or game. 

SWEET POTATO BREAD. 

4 roasted sweet potatoes, i quart of flour, 

I pint of warm water, I tablespoonful of salt, 

I tablespoonful of butter, }4 cup of yeast or ^ a compressed 

cake. 

Put the water in a bowl, add the butter, salt, yeast and 
flour, beat well and stand in a warm place over night. In 
the morning bake the sweet potatoes, scoop out with a 
spoon and press through a sieve into the sponge. Beat 



90 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

well; add one egg and sufficient flour to make a soft 
dough. Knead lightly, roll out and cut into biscuits. 
Place these in greased baking-pans and when very light 
bake in a quick oven twenty-five or thirty minutes. When 
the biscuits are half done, take from the fire, brush over 
with white of one egg beaten with two tablespoonfuls of 
water. Put back in the oven until thoroughly done. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil, skin and mash three good-sized sweets. There 
should be one pint of it, to which add one pint of milk, 
three eggs beaten light without separating, half cup of 
sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla, or half teaspoonful of cin- 
namon and a level teaspoonful of ginger. 

Mix, pour into deep pie-tins lined with light paste and 
bake in a moderate oven a half hour. 

TO DRY PUMPKINS FOR PIES. 

Pare the pumpkin, cut into thin strips and again into 
slices. Spread out in a thin layer and dry in the hot sun 
or in a moderate oven. In the winter when wanted for 
use soak over night in cold water. Cook in the same water 
until tender and use the same as fresh pumpkin. 

PRESERVED PUMPKIN. 
Pare off the outer skin and cut the pumpkin in halves. 
Remove the seeds and divide each half into a number of 
smaller pieces. Cut or chip these into very small, thin 
shavings. To each quart of these chips allow one large 
orange. Shave the orange, rind and all, into thin slices, 
avoiding the core in the centre. Add the orange to the 
pumpkin, cover with two quarts of cold water and stand 
in a cold place over night. In the morning cook slowly 



PUMPKIN PIE. 9^ 

until the pumpkin is clear and tender and reduced about 
one-half. Put into tumblers, fasten and keep in a cool, 
dark place. 

PUMPKIN PRESERVED IN PIECES. 

Pare off the outer skin, cut in halves, remove the seeds 
and divide each half into pieces about two inches square. 
Put them in a stone jar, add a half cup of salt to every 
five pounds of pumpkin. Cover with cold water and stand 
aside five hours, then drain and cover with fresh cold 
water. Soak two hours, changing the water three or four 
times. If you wish it crisp at the expense of health, dis- 
solve a teaspoonful of powdered alum in two quarts of 
boiling water, add to the pumpkin and bring to boiling 
point. If the alum is omitted, bring the pumpkin to boil- 
ing point in the water; drain in a colander. Put two and 
a half pounds of granulated sugar and one and a half 
quarts of boiling water in a preserving kettle, boil and 
skim. When perfectly clear, put in the pumpkin and 
cook gently until you can pierce it with a wooden skewer or 
straw. Then lift each piece carefully with a skimmer and 
place it on a large plate. Stand in the sun two hours to 
harden. Chip the yellow rind from one large lemon, add 
to the syrup ; add the juice of two lemons and a small 
piece of ginger root cut in thin slices. Boil ten minutes 
and stand aside to cool. When the pumpkin rind is hard- 
ened and cold, put in glass jars. Bring the syrup again 
to boiling point, strain it over the pumpkin and when 
cool, fasten or seal. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Pare and cut the pumpkin in pieces one inch square ; put 
them in a stewing-pan with just enough water to keep the 
pumpkin from burning. Cover and stew slowly about a 



92 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

half hour or until tender. By this time the water should 
have entirely evaporated. If it has not, however, lift the 
lid of the kettle and allow it to evaporate. Press the 
pumpkin through a colander and add while hot a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut to each pint of pumpkin. When 
the pumpkin is cold, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, 
one pint of milk, a half teaspoonful of ground mace, half 
a teaspoonful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of ground 
ginger. Mix all well together, and add a half cup of sugar. 
Beat four eggs till light, stir them into the mixture, and 
stand aside about thirty minutes. Remember these quan- 
tities are added to one pint of pumpkin. Line four deep pie 
plates with good, plain paste. Fill them with the mixture, 
and bake in a quick oven about thirty-five minutes. If 
you use liquor, one gill of brandy may be added to the 
recipe given. 

BAKED PUMPKIN. 

Cut the pumpkin in halves, then in quarters and remove 
the seeds, not the rind. Place in a baking-pan rind down- 
wards, and bake in a slow oven until tender. Try it by 
piercing with a fork. When done, dish the pumpkin neatly 
on a pretty dish, moisten it with butter and serve. Help 
it by spoonfuls as mashed potatoes. In mid-winter, a nice 
sweet pumpkin baked and served is not only an attractive 
but a palatable dish, to my own taste far better than sweet 
potatoes. 

PUMPKIN WITH SALT MEAT. 

Peel the pumpkin, cut into thin slices, arrange in a 
baking-dish with a space in the middle for one pound of 
salt pork. The pork should be soaked in cold water over 
night, scored, and placed in the centre of the dish. 
Smoked salt pork is better than unsmoked. Sprinkle two 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar over the pumpkin, add a cup 



WINTER RADISHES. 93 

of water, cover and cook slowly in the oven one hour ; 
then remove the cover and cook one hour longer. As the 
water evaporates add fresh. This very homely sounding 
dish is, if well prepared, very appetizing. 

RADISHES. 

Winter radishes may be simply pared, cut in quarters, 
and arranged neatly on a pretty shallow dish. Red rad- 
ishes of the spring should have the roots neatly trimmed, 
half the top cut and trimmed, leaving little holders at 
the top. These may be arranged neatly in a glass dish, 
and served with cracked ice. 

The round white radishes and the little button radishes 
may be served as follows : Cut off the roots close to the 
radish, then the tops about one inch from the radish, wash 
clean in cold water, then take a radish in the left hand, 
holding it by the top. Cut the skin from the top down- 
wards, in several parts, as you cut an orange to remove the 
skin in sections, but do not detach the skin. Now run the 
point of the penknife under each little section of skin and 
loosen it down to the stem of the radish. Throw each 
radish as finished into a bowl of cold water. After a little 
practice this operation will be comparatively easy and the 
radishes will look more like tulips than like ordinary table 
radishes. Serve in a pretty dish with cracked ice, or use 
as a garnish for fish cutlets, lobster cutlets, breaded chops, 
etc. The skin of the radish should be eaten with the flesh, 
as it contains a substance that helps digest the radish itself. 

WINTER RADISHES WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Pare and cut the radishes in slices crosswise. Throw 
them into boiling water, boil twenty minutes. Turn them 
into a heated dish, cover with Cream Sauce and serve very 
hot. 



94 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

PICKLED RADISH PODS. 

Pick two quarts of horse-radish pods. They must be 
tender, green, and with the seeds just forming. Throw 
them in brine and stand aside over night. Next day turn 
them, brine and all, into a porcelain kettle and bring to 
steaming point. Drain, turn them into a jar, and if not 
tender and green bring the brine to boiling point and 
pour over the pods again. Continue doing this till the 
pods are tender and green. Then drain, put one quart of 
good cider vinegar in a porcelain kettle, add two blades of 
mace, one ounce of ginger root in slices, two small red 
peppers, two tablespoon fuls of chopped horse-radish ; bring 
to boiling point and pour over the pods. Stand aside over 
night. Next morning drain off the vinegar, bring it to 
boiling point again and pour over the pods. When cold 
they may be tied up and kept in a cool dry place. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 

Wash the rhubarb, cut in pieces about one inch long, do 
not remove the skin. To every pound of rhubarb allow 
one pound of granulated sugar, put them together in a 
porcelain kettle and stand on the back of the fire until the 
sugar slowly melts. Do not add water. Then bring the 
kettle forward and boil gently without stirring. As soon 
as the rhubarb is tender, turn it carefully out to cool. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Line a pie dish with good plain paste, wash the tender 

stalks of rhubarb, but do not peel. Cut them in thin 

slices, fill the dishes even full and to each pie allow five 

• tablespoonfuls of sugar. Cover the pie with the upper 

crust, making a hole in the centre to allow the escape of 



RICE AS A VEGETABLE. 95 

steam. Press the edges tightly together and bake in a 
quick oven forty-five minutes. 



RHUBARB VINEGAR. 

For five gallons take about fifteen ordinary stalks of rhu- 
barb. Wash and pound or crush it with a potato masher 
in the bottom of a strong tub, then add five gallons of cold 
water, cover and stand aside twenty-four hours. Strain 
off, and add eight pounds of brown sugar, and a cupful 
of good yeast or one compressed yeast cake dissolved in a 
cup of lukewarm water. Stir till the sugar is dissolved, 
then stand in a warm place over night. In the morning 
put in a ten-gallon cask, place where the temperature will 
not fall below 60°. In a month strain off the grounds, 
return to the cask again and let stand until it becomes 
vinegar, perhaps two or three weeks. 

RHUBARB WINE. 

Put twenty-five large stalks of rhubarb in the bottom of a 
tub, pound and mash with a potato masher. Add ten gal- 
lons of cold water, let it stand twenty-four hours, then add 
fifteen pounds of brown sugar. Stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Add one cup of brewers' yeast or two compressed 
yeast cakes dissolved in a cup of warm water. Strain in a 
cask, let stand over night, then rack off again. Bottle 
and put in a cold place. 

RICE AS A VEGETABLE. 

Wash one cup of rice, sprinkle it carefully in a large 
kettle of boiling water. Cover and boil rapidly without 
stirring for twenty minutes. Drain, throw into a bowl 
of cold water to blanch ten minutes. Drain again in a 



96 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

colander, then stand the colander over a kettle of boiling 
water. Let it steam ten minutes. Stand at the oven door 
a few minutes to dry. Sprinkle with salt and serve. 

Each grain should be swollen two or three times its orig- 
inal size and no two grains should stick together. Serve 
with fricassee of veal, or of chicken, or with boiled mut- 
ton. Where rice is served as a vegetable, do not serve 
potatoes in any form at the same time. 

BOILED SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Wash and scrape one dozen roots of salsify, throw each 
into cold water to prevent discoloration, as soon as scraped. 
Throw them into a kettle of boiling water, boil slowly about 
one hour. Drain, arrange neatly on a plate of buttered 
toast, cover with Cream Sauce and serve. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

These are made precisely the same as parsnip fritters. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 

Scrape and boil one dozen roots of salsify ; when done, 
drain, dust with salt, pepper, sugar, and flour. Put two 
tablespoon fuls of drippings in a frying-pan, when hot put 
in the salsify. Turn carefully until brown on all sides. 
Serve with baked or hot boiled ham. 

SPINACH. 

Wash a half peck of spinach through several waters, to 
free it from grit. Pick over carefully, cut off the roots. 
Wash again, drain by taking up in handfuls, shaking, and 
pressing out all the remaining water. Put in a kettle, add 
a cupful of water, stand over the Are and boil without 



PUREE OF SORREL. 97 

covering about ten minutes. Then drain in a colander, 
turn into a chopping tray, and chop very fine. It cannot 
be too fine. Then put in a saucepan with two tablespoonfiils 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Stir until very hot. 
Have ready at hand a heated dish, arrange it on small 
squares of buttered toast. Heap the spinach on each 
square. Place a hard boiled egg on top of each and 
serve. 

SPINACH FOR GARNISHING. 

Wash and cook a half peck of spinach as directed in 
the preceding recipe. Sprinkle with salt while cooking 
and boil five minutes. Then throw into a pan of cold 
water. This preserves the color. Drain, press out the 
water and chop as fine as possible. Put in a saucepan with 
one tablespoonful of butt jr, sprinkle over a tablespoonful 
of flour. Stir five minutes. Add a half teaspoonful of 
salt and half a pint of stock. Stir until boiling, add a 
grating of nutmeg. Take from the fire and stir in two 
tablespoon fuls of extra butter, and serve as a garnish for 
spiced beef, beef a la mode or fricandeau of veal. 

SPINACH WITH CREAM. 

Prepare the spinach the same as previously directed, but 
substitute cream for stock and add one teaspoonful of gran- 
ulated sugar. Serve in a heated vegetable dish. 

PUREE OF SORREL. 

j4 peck of sorrel, i tablespoonful of butter, 

I gill of veal stock, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the sorrel through several waters, cut off the stems, 
the leaves only are good. Put a half pint of water and a 
teaspoonful of salt in a saucepan, throw in the sorrel at the 
7 



98 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

first boil. Boil uncovered ten minutes. Drain and chop 
very fine. Return to the saucepan, add the butter, stock 
and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Let boil up 
once and serve with breaded veal cutlet, or it may be served 
with fi-icandeau of veal. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Boil, pare and cut into slices three summer squashes. 
Remove the seeds and cut the slices into squares ; put them 
in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and boil twenty minutes. Drain carefully, 
mash, turn into a strainer cloth and squeeze until the squash 
is perfectly dry. Now put in a saucepan, add a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, half a teaspoon ful of salt and a dash of pep- 
per. Stir until the squash is very hot, and serve in a heated 
vegetable dish. 

FRIED SQUASH. 

Pare and cut three squashes into slices a quarter of an 
inch thick. Dust with salt and pepper. Dip first in egg, 
then in bread crumbs. Fry the same as egg-plant. 

SUMMER SQUASH WITH MELTED BUTTER. 

Peel, cut in halves, and then into eighths, and again 
into eighths, two summer squashes. Boil in salt water 
twenty minutes. Drain, and arrange neatly on a dish of 
toast. Dust with salt and pepper and serve with a tureen 
of English drawn butter. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over twelve good-sized tomatoes, with 
a sharp knife remove the skins and hard stem ends, and cut 
them in small pieces. Put in a porcelain lined or granite 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 99 

saucepan, stew slowly a half hour, then add one table- 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice, and a palatable seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Stew twenty minutes longer or until the desired 
thickness. If liked, a slice of onion may be added to the 
tomatoes when they first go over the fire. Thickening of 
any sort spoils the flavor of the tomatoes. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Choose six large tomatoes, cut slices off the stem ends 
and with your finger carefully scoop out the seeds. Mix 
together a half cup of finely chopped, cold boiled ham, 
twelve chopped mushroons, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
stale bread crumbs, tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of butter. 

Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, heaping it in the 
centre. Sprinkle over the tomatoes with bread crumbs, 
place them in a baking-pan, baste with melted butter. Bake 
in a hot oven thirty-five minutes. When done, take them 
up carefully and serve on a flat dish. 

These make a fine garnish for baked calves' heads. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose large, smooth tomatoes, slice off the stem ends 
and with the fingers scoop out the seeds. Put a cup of 
stale bread crumbs in a bowl, add a tablespoonful of 
chopped onion, half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of melted butter. Fill the tomatoes 
with this stuffing, heaping it in the centre. Place them in 
a baking-pan, and bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. 
Lift them carefully with a cake turner, place on a hot dish 
and serve. 



lOO HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

TOMATO FARCI. 

Put one layer of sliced tomatoes in the bottom of a 
baking-dish, then a layer of bread crumbs, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Then put in another layer of tomatoes, 
bread crumbs, and so continue until the dish is full, 
having the last layer crumbs. Put over the top a few bits of 
butter and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Serve in 
the dish in which baked. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Wash and cut in halves six nice, ripe tomatoes, place 
them in a baking-pan skin side down. Cut a quarter of a 
pound of butter into small pieces, place over the tomatoes, 
dust with salt and pepper, stand in the oven ten minutes. 
Then place them over a fire and fry slowly ; the tomatoes 
should become tender without turning. When done, lift 
them carefully with a cake turner and place them on a 
heated dish. Draw the baking-pan over a quick fire, stir 
until the butter is brown, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
mix until smooth, add a pint of milk, stir continually until 
boiling, season with salt and pepper, pour over the toma- 
toes and serve. 

Tomatoes in this way make a nice lunch or tea dish and 
will take the place of a meat dish. 

DREDGED TOMATOES. 

Choose smooth, solid tomatoes, the little end ripe. Cut 
into slices an eighth of an inch thick, dust with salt and 
pepper. Beat an egg in a saucer, add a tablespoonful of 
boiling water. Dip each slice in egg, then in bread 
crumbs. When ready to serve the tomatoes put two or 
three tablespoonfuls of lard or drippings in a frying-pan, 



TOMATOES ON THE HALF SHELL. lOI 

when very hot, cover the bottom with slices of tomatoes, 
fry brown on both sides. Lift carefully, put on a heated 
dish and serve at once. 

If kept warm any length of time, they lose their crisp- 
ness and become soft. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes into halves but do not peel. Place 
them on a broiler, dust with salt and pepper, and broil 
over a clear but very moderate fire skin side down, about 
twenty minutes until tender. When done, put them on a 
heated dish, pour over melted butter and serve with slices 
of crisp toast. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

I quart of stewed or canned to- i cup of rice, 

matoes, i teaspoonful of curry powder. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the rice through several waters. Add the powder 
and salt to the tomatoes, mix well. Put one layer of toma- 
toes in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of 
uncooked rice, and then another layer of tomatoes, rice, 
and so continue, having the last layer tomatoes. Sprinkle 
the top with bread crumbs. Place a few bits of butter 
here and there, and bake in a moderate oven forty-five 
minutes. Serve in the dish in which they were baked. 
A layer of okra may also be added, and is a great improve- 
ment. This makes a nice accompaniment to roasted fowl. 

TOMATOES ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

. Cut the tomatoes in halves without peeling, place them 
in a baking-pan. Put a piece of butter on top of each and 
dust with salt and pepper. Stand the pan in the oven and 



I02 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

cook the tomatoes slowly about one hour or until perfectly 
tender. Have ready squares of toasted bread ; put a half 
of a tomato on each square, pour around them Cream Sauce 
and serve very hot. 

ICED TOMATOES. 

Scald and peel small, smooth tomatoes, place them on 
ice until very cold. Serve whole on cracked ice and with 
a bowl of French dressing. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CELERY. 

Scald and peel smooth, round tomatoes, cut the slices off 
the stem end and scrape out the seeds. Place the tomatoes 
on ice to get very cold. Cut in small pieces the white 
part of celery, moisten it with French dressing. Fill the 
tomatoes, place each tomato on a crisp lettuce leaf and 
serve as a salad. 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 

Choose small red or yellow tomatoes, prick them with a 
pin. Put in glass or stone jars, add a half cup of nastur- 
tium seeds and cover with cold cider vinegar. They will 
be ready to use in about two weeks, and if kept closely cov- 
ered will keep all winter. 

TOMATO FIGS. 

6 pounds of tomatoes, 3 pounds of granulated sugar. 

Select tomatoes quite ripe but small and smooth. Scald 
and remove the skins. Place a layer of tomatoes in a 
porcelain kettle, strew them thickly with sugar, place them 
over a very moderate fire, and stew very slowly until the 
sugar appears to have penetrated the tomatoes. Lift each 
tomato carefully with a spoon, spread them on dishes and 



RIPE TOMATO PRESERVES. I03 

stand them in the hot sun one or two days to dry. 
Sprinkle several times during the drying with granulated 
sugar. When perfectly dry pack them in jars with layers 
of sugar between. Care must be taken not to' let the rain 
or dew fall on them while drying. 



TOMATO BUTTER. 

20 pounds of ripe tomatoes, 4 pounds of apples, 

8 pounds of sugar, I tablespoonful of powdered 

Juice of four lemons, ginger. 

Scald the tomatoes and remove the skins. Put in a 
porcelain kettle with the apples pared, cored and quartered. 
Stand over a moderate fire one hour, stirring occasionally 
to prevent sticking. Then add the sugar, lemon juice, 
and ginger. Cook slowly and stir continually till reduced 
to the consistency of marmalade. Put into tumblers, or 
jars and when cold, tie up with two thicknesses of tissue 
paper.. Moisten the top with water or white of egg and 
when dry place in a cool dark place to keep. 

RIPE TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Select a half peck of nice, smooth tomatoes not over- 
ripe, scald, peel and weigh. To each pound allow one 
pound of sugar, juice and rind of half a lemon, and a 
small piece of ginger root cut into thin slices. Put all 
this in a porcelain kettle and cook gently three hours. 
The tomatoes should not lose their shape but should be 
clear and tender. Put them into tumblers or jars and 
stand away to cool. When cold, tie as directed in the 
preceding recipe. Yellow tomatoes may be preserved in 
the same manner. 



I04 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

YELLOW TOMATO MARMALADE. 

Scald and skin a half peck of yellow tomatoes, large or 
small, put them in a porcelain kettle, cook thirty minutes, 
then add an equal quantity of grated pineapple. Weigh 
or measure and to each pound allow one pound of granu- 
lated sugar. Cook slowly one hour, put into tumblers or 
jars and when cool tie as directed. 

PRESERVED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Wash one peck of green tomatoes, cover with boiling 
water and stand aside thirty minutes. Wipe and cut 
into slices. Slice also six large, juicy lemons; carefully 
remove the seeds. Put the tomatoes in a porcelain kettle, 
add the lemons, six pounds of granulated sugar, an even 
tablespoonful of ground ginger or small pieces of root 
ginger sliced, and a half pint of water to prevent burning. 
Cover the kettle and cook slowly one and a half hours, 
skimming carefully. Stand aside to cool. When cold, 
bring again to boiling point and simmer gently another 
hour; then put into small jars or tumblers. When cold tie 
as directed. 

TOMATO MANGOES. 

Select smooth soft green tomatoes. Cut from the stem 
end a piece sufficiently large to allow the removal of the 
seeds without breaking the tomato. Take out the seeds, 
stand the tomatoes up in a tub, with each top by the side 
of its corresponding tomato. Sprinkle a teaspoonful of 
salt in each tomato, cover with cold water and soak 
twenty-four' hours. Drain by turning them upside down. 
Cut two large heads of cabbage on a slaw cutter, add to it 
a teaspoonful of ground cloves, a teaspoonful of ground 



TOMATO CATSUP. I05 

allspice, four tablespoonfuls of whole mustard, and two 
tablespoonfuls of salt. Mix, stuff this in the tomatoes, 
put on the tops, tie them tightly with soft twine. Stand 
the tomatoes upright in a stone jar, cover with cold vine- 
gar and in one week they are ready for use. 

A few stuffed peppers or a few hot peppers mixed with 
the tomatoes greatly improves their flavor. If the vinegar 
moulds in one or two weeks, drain off, cover with fresh 
cold vinegar, add two tablespoonfuls of chopped horse- 
radish, which will prevent moulding. 

TOMATO CATSUP, No. 1. 

Cut ripe tomatoes into slices, put in a stone jar a layer 
of tomatoes and a layer of salt. Stand aside three days. 
Then press through a sieve, spice and vinegar to taste, 
bottle and seal. 

TOMATO CATSUP, No. 2. 

Tomatoes for catsup should be gathered in August, as 
later in the season they lose their freshness, becoming 
watery and more acid. Catsup made in September rarely 
keeps perfectly well. 

I bushel of tomatoes, ^ a gallon of vinegar, 

Yz pound of sugar, y^ pint of salt, 

1^2 ounces of black pepper, 2 ounces of whole mustard, 
I ounce of ginger root, y^, ounce of cloves, 

l^ ounces of allspice. 

Use all the spices whole. Put the touiatoes, without 
peeling, on to boil. Cook gently a half hour. Press 
through a sieve to remove the seeds and the skins. Add 
all the spices ; return the tomatoes to the kettle and boil 
down until the catsup reaches the proper consistency. It 
should be a little too thick, of course, to allow the vine- 



Io6 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

gar. Now add the vinegar, and let stand on the back of 
the stove slowly cooking another hour. Then add the 
sugar and salt and about half a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper. Bottle and seal while hot. 

ENGLISH TOMATO CATSUP. 

I bushel of ripe tomatoes, ^ gallon of vinegar, 

y^ pound of sugar, ^ pint of salt, 

1 ^ ounces of black pepper, i ^ ounces allspice, 

2 ounces ground mustard, I ounce of ground ginger, 
y^ ounce of ground cloves, ^ teaspoonful of cayenne, 
^ teaspoonful of powdered l pint of alcohol. 

asafoetida, 

Put the tomatoes on to boil, cook gently a half hour. 
Press through a sieve to remove the seeds and skin, return 
to the kettle and boil down to one and a half gallons. 
Then add the vinegar and evaporate over the fire to one 
and three-quarter gallons. Now add the sugar, salt and 
spices. Stir until thoroughly mixed. Put the asafoetida in 
a teacup, add two tablespoonfuls of warm water, and stir 
until thoroughly mixed, then turn it into the kettle and stir 
continually until the catsup comes to a boiling point. Then 
take from the fire and add the alcohol. Bottle and seal 
while hot. 

This recipe has been in constant use in my own family 
for years, and has been pronounced, by those who have 
tried it, perfect. 

COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 

Peel and chop fine a half peck of ripe tomatoes, drain 
in a colander. Turn into an earthern vessel, add a half cup 
of grated horse-radish, a half pint of salt, one cup of black 
and white mustard-seed mixed, two tablespoonfuls of black 



TOMATO HONEY. I07 

pepper, two red peppers, two roots of celery chopped fine, 
two teaspoonfuls of celery seed, one cup of nasturtiums 
chopped fine, one cup of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cloves, two tablespoonfuls of ground allspice, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground 
mace, add one quart of cider vinegar. Mix all well to- 
gether, bottle and seal. The cold tomato catsup will keep 
one or two years perfectly sweet, and is a very nice accom- 
paniment to cold meats or boiled salt meats. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

I peck of green tomatoes, i yi ounces of black pepper, 

I ounce of whole allspice, X pound of ground mustard, 

I dozen onions, i ounce of whole cloves, 

I ounce of mustard-seed. 

Slice the tomatoes and onions. Then put a layer of 
tomatoes in the bottom of a jar, then a layer of onions, 
then a sprinkling of salt, then tomatoes and so on till all 
are used. Stand aside over night. Next morning drain 
off all the liquor. Put them in a porcelain kettle, add the 
spices, cover with vinegar and siimner gently fifteen min- 
utes. Put away in stone or glass jars. 

TOMATO HONEY. 

Select ripe yellow tomatoes, weigh them, cut them into 
pieces, and put in a porcelain kettle, and for each pound 
add the grated yellow rind of one lemon ; simmer gently 
for thirty minutes, then drain, and press gently through a 
cheese cloth. Measure the liquor and return it to the 
kettle, and for each pint add one pound of granulated sugar 
and four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Boil twenty or 
thirty minutes until a jelly-like syrup is formed. Put in 
bottles or tumblers for keeping. 



Io8 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare and cut into quarters twelve good-sized 
turnips. Throw them into a kettle of boiling water and 
boil until tender, about thirty minutes. When done, drain 
in a colander, pressing lightly to squeeze out all the water. 
Mash fine, add a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of 
salt and a seasoning of pepper. Serve very hot. 

TURNIPS WITH POTATOES. 

Proceed as in the foregoing recipe. When mashed, add 
an equal quantity of hot mashed potatoes. Serve in a 
heated dish. 

TURNIPS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Pare six nice, crisp turnips and cut them into dice. Put 
them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil thirty min- 
utes. Drain, turn into a heated dish. Pour over a half 
pint of Cream Sauce and serve. 

Turnips cooked this way make a delightful, delicate 
vegetable to serve with roast poultry. One would scarcely 
recognize the coarse, mashed turnips so often seen. 

BROWNED TURNIPS. 

Pare and cut into slices crosswise six good-sized turnips. 
Boil twenty minutes, drain in a colander. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of drippings into a frying-pan ; when hot, dust 
the turnips with sugar, put into the fat, turn carefully 
until the slices are nicely browned. Serve with duck or 
goose. 



ARTICHOKE SOUP. IO9 

RUTA BAGA. 

Ruta bagas may be cooked the same as common white 
turnips. They are exceedingly nice browned to serve 
with ducks or geese. 

TURNIP TOPS OR SPROUTS. 

Wash a quarter of a peck of turnip tops in cold water ; 
throw them into a kettle of boiling water, add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, boil twenty minutes, drain. Turn into a vege- 
table dish garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs and 
serve the same as spinach. In the spring of the year 
turnips become wilted and are not fit to use. Then use 
the sprouts. They may also be served as a salad, dressed 
with French dressing. 



CREAM VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

ARTICHOKE SOUP. 

3 good-sized French artichokes, I quart of milk, 
3 level tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the artichokes, throw them into boiling water, 
boil forty-five minutes, take from the fire, drain, then pull 
them to pieces and press them through a pur^e sieve. Put 
the milk on to cook in a double boiler, add the artichoke 
to it. Rub the butter and flour together, stir into the hot 
milk, stirring continually until the milk thickens. Add 
the salt and pepper, cook ten minutes and serve with tiny 
chicken forcemeat balls floating in it. 

Chicken Forcemeat Balls : — Take four tablespoonfuls 
of chopped, uncooked chicken, add to it an equal amount 



no HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

of Stale bread crumbs. Add the white of one egg and a 
palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Make this mixture 
into tiny balls, dropping each, as soon as made, into a 
kettle of boiling water. Simmer gently ten minutes. Lift 
with a skimmer and place in a soup tureen. 

SOUP OF PALESTINE. 

6 Jerusalem artichokes, I quart of milk, 

I large tablespoonful of butter, 2 even tablespoonfuls of flour, 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scrape and slice six good-sized Jerusalem artichokes, 
throw them into cold water as soon as sliced. Put them 
in a saucepan of boiling water and cook one hour. Press 
through a puree sieve. Put the milk on to heat in a double 
boiler, add the artichokes. Rub the butter and flour 
together. Stir it into the hot mixture and stir continually 
until it thickens. Add the salt and pepper and serve with 
squares of toasted bread. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

I bundle of asparagus, I quart of milk, 

3 even tablespoonfuls of flour, i tablespoonful of butter, 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the asparagus, throw it into a saucepan of boiling 
salted water, boil gently thirty minutes. Take from the 
water, cut off' the tops and put them into a soup tureen. 
Put the milk on to heat in a double boiler. Press the as- 
paragus through the colander. Rub the butter and flour 
together, add the milk and stir continually until it thick- 
ens. Then add the asparagus that has been pressed through 
a colander, take at once from the fire, add the salt and 
pepper and pour over the tops in the tureen. 

Canned asparagus may be used for the soup, but must 



LIMA BEAN SOUP. Ill 

be handled very carefully or it will curdle the milk. All 
cream soups must be served as soon as made or they will 
curdle. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

I quart of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of barley, 

Yolks of two eggs, i onion, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the barley, drain, put it into a pint of water. 
Add the onion and parsley, and if you have three or four 
small beef bones, add them. Simmer gently three hours. 
Put the milk on in a double boiler, add the barley and the 
water in which it was boiled, also the onion, which will be 
soft and tender. Season with salt and pepper. Beat the 
yolks lightly, put them into the soup tureen and pour in 
the soup slowly, stirring all the time. 

LIMA BEAN SOUP. 

I pint of freshly shelled lima 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

beans, I stalk of celery, 

I sprig of parsley, i clove, 

I tablespoonful of butter. Piece of green pepper, 

I small onion. 

Put the beans in one quart of water, add the parsley, 
celery, onion, clove, and pepper, and boil three-quarters 
of an hour. Press through a colander, saving all the 
liquor in which the beans were boiled. Return this to the 
kettle. Rub together the butter and flour, stir this into 
the beans, add one pint of milk and press the whole again 
through the puree sieve. Put into the farina boiler, season 
with salt and pepper, bring to boiling point and serve with 
croutons. 

Croutons : — Butter lightly slices of bread, then cut into 
dice, rejecting all the crusts. Put the dice in a baking- 



112 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

pan and stand in a moderate oven until the bread is thor- 
oughly dry and golden brown. 

CELERY SOUP. 

3 roots of celery, i quart of milk, 

I tablespoonful of butter, 3 even tablespoonfuls of flour, 

I pint of water. Piece of onion the size of a silver 
Salt and pepper to taste. quarter. 

Wash the celery and cut it into small pieces, using all 
the tops and the root. Cover with a pint of water, boil 
thirty minutes. Press through a colander. Put the milk 
on in a double boiler. Add the water and celery, pressed 
through the colander, also the onion, and if you like, one 
bay-leaf. Rub the butter and flour together, stir into the 
hot soup, and stir continually until it thickens. Add the 
salt and pepper and serve at once. Remove the onion. 

CORN SOUP. 

1 pint of pressed corn, l quart of milk, 

2 even tablespoonfuls of flour, I tablespoonful of butter, 

Yolks of two eggs. 

Put the milk on to boil in a double boiler, add the corn 
cobs from which the corn has been removed. Cover and 
cook slowly a half hour. Remove the cobs, add the corn, 
cook twenty minutes more and press through a puree sieve. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add to the soup and stir 
continually until it thickens. Beat the yolks of the eggs, 
put them in the tureen, add gradually the hot soup, season 
and serve. 

PEA SOUP. 

Shell a half peck of green peas. Wash the peas, put 
them in a soup-kettle, cover with cold water, boil twenty 
minutes. Take out one cup and press the remainder 



POTATO SOUP. 113 

through the puree sieve. Return the soup to the kettle 
and add one quart of milk and the cup of peas. Rub two 
ounces of butter and four tablespoon fuls of flour until 
smooth, stir into the soup, and stir continually until the 
soup is thick and smooth. It should be the consistency of 
thick cream. Season with salt and pepper and serve. 



PEA SOUP FROM CANNED PEAS. 

Press a pint can of peas through a puree sieve. Put one 
quart of milk in a farina boiler and when hot, add the 
peas pressed through the sieve. Rub one tablespoonful of 
butter and two even tablespoonfuls of flour together, add 
to the boiling soup. Stir until it thickens. Add a half 
teaspoonful of onion juice, and a palatable seasoning of 
salt and pepper. Serve immediately. 



POTATO SOUP. 

4 good-sized potatoes, i quart of milk, 

Piece of onion the size of a sil- A sprig of parsley, 

ver quarter, i tablespoonful of butter, 

A stalk of celery or a half tea- I bay-leaf, 

spoonful of celery seed, 2 even tablespoonfuls of flour, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the potatoes on to boil in a quart of cold water. 
When half done, drain, throw the water away and cover 
the potatoes with a pint of fresh boiling water. Add the 
bay-leaf, onion, parsley, and celery and boil slowly until 
the potatoes are done. Put the milk on to heat in a double 
boiler. Rub the butter and flour together, add to the hot 
milk, and stir till it thickens. When the potatoes are 
tender press them through a puree sieve with the water in 
which they were boiled. Add the thickened milk gradu- 
8 



114 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

ally to this, return to the farina boiler and when very hot, 
serve immediately. 

This soup cannot stand and is not good warmed up. 



RICE SOUP. 

y^ cup of rice, l quart of milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter, j^ a small onion. 
Stalk of celery, l bay-leaf, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the rice to it. 
Cook slowly thirty minutes. Keep the boiler covered or 
the milk evaporates, and you must have at least one quart 
when the rice is tender. Cut the onion into slices, put 
with the butter in the frying-pan, cook slowly until the 
onion is tender but not brown. Then add the celery to 
the onion and turn the whole into the farina boiler. Add 
the bay-leaf, cover, and let stand on the back part of the 
stove fifteen minutes. Then press the whole through a 
puree sieve, return to the boiler, season with salt and 
pepper and it is ready to serve. 

If the milk evaporates during the cooking and the soup 
is too thick, add sufficient milk to make it the proper con- 
sistency. 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT SOUP. 

I bunch or one dozen salsify l quart of milk, 

roots, I tablespoonful of butter, 

3 even tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scrape the salsify, cut it into slices, cover with a pint of 
boiling water, boil slowly one hour. Add to this the milk; 
do not drain off the water. Rub the butter and flour 
together, stir into the soup and stir continually until it 
boils. Add six whole allspice and a blade of mace. Let 



PUREE OF VEGETABLE SOUP. II5 

it Stand on the back of the stove ten minutes. Season 
and serve. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

I quart of milk, I pint of canned tomatoes or one 
A large tablespoonful of butter, pint of stewed tomatoes, 

I bay-leaf, A sprig of parsley, 

A blade of mace, I teaspoonfui of sugar, 

^ teaspoonfui of baking soda, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Put the tomatoes in a saucepan with the bay-leaf, parsley 
and mace. Cover and stand on the back part of the stove 
fifteen minutes. Put the milk in a double boiler; rub the 
butter and flour together, add to the milk and stir until it 
thickens. Press the tomatoes through a sieve sufficiently 
fine to remove the seeds. Then put them into the soup 
tureen. Add the sugar and soda and then pour in quickly 
the boiling milk. Stir and serve immediately. This mock 
bisque soup must not go over the fire after the milk and 
tomatoes are mixed or they will separate. If not ready to 
serve, keep the tomatoes hot and the milk hot, but sepa- 
rately. Then mix and add the soda and sugar just the 
moment of serving time. 

PUREE OF VEGETABLE SOUP. 

1 onion, i carrot, 

2 potatoes, I tomato, 

2 tablespoonfuls of rice, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, I pint of milk, 

I quart of water, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Peel the potatoes and onion and cut them in slices. Put 
the butter in a frying-pan, add the onion, fry until it is a 
golden brown. Turn into the soup kettle; add the pota- 
toes, rice, and carrot scraped and cut into slices, add the 
water, cook slowly until the vegetables are tender, about 



Il6 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

one hour. Press all through a puree sieve and return to 
the kettle. Moisten the corn starch with a little cold milk, 
add to the puree and then add the milk. Stir continually 
until boiling, season and serve with crotitons. 



SOUP CRECY. 

4 good-sized carrots, I pint of water, 

I pint of milk, Piece of bacon rind or a small 

1 onion, > piece of bacon, 

2 bay-leaves, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scrape and grate the carrots into the water; add the 
bacon, onion and bay-leaves. Simmer gently thirty min- 
utes. Then remove the bay-leaves and bacon, add the 
milk and seasoning and, when boiling hot, serve. 



ENGLISH PEA PORRIDGE. 

I pint of split peas, 2 onions. 

Stalk of celery, 2 ounces of bread, 

3 quart's of water, I pint of potatoes, 

6 leeks, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cut the onions into slices. Cut the celery into pieces. 
Put them with butter in a frying-pan, stir until a golden 
brown. Then put in the soup kettle with all the other 
ingredients, cook slowly one hour, skimming at the first 
boil. If the peas are not tender at the end of this time, 
boil a little longer till they can be easily pressed through 
a sieve. Press all through a puree sieve, return to the 
kettle, and when boiling, season and serve. 

This porridge should be quite thick, and if it has the 
slightest inclination to settle, rub a tablespoonful of butter 
and two of flour to a smooth paste, stir into the hot por- 
ridge till it boils. Serve. 



DRIED BEAN SOUP. II 7 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

I carrot, i root of celery, 

I sweet potato, i tablespoonful of butter, 

I turnip, 2 tablespoonfuls of rice, 

I parsnip, 2 quarts of cold water, 

I white potato, i bay-leaf, 

^ onion, i teaspoonful of salt, 
I sprig of parsley. 

Cut the vegetables into dice. Put the butter into a fry- 
ing-pan ; and when hot put in all the vegetables but the 
white potato and fry until a light brown. Then turn the 
whole, butter and all, into a soup kettle, add the water, 
rice, bay-leaf, salt, parsley and celery. Let them boil 
slowly one and a quarter hours. Then add the white 
potato; boil fifteen minutes longer, season to taste and 
serve. 



VEGETABLE SOUPS WITH MEAT. 

DRIED BEAN SOUP. 

I pint of white soup beans, ^/, pound of bacon, 

1 soup bone, I onion, 

2 bay-leaves. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cover the beans with cold water, soak over night. In 
the morning drain, put them in a soup kettle with the 
bacon and small soup bone. Bones left from roast beef 
will answer. Add two quarts of water and simmer gently 
until the beans are tender, about one and a half hours. 
Then press through a puree sieve and return the contents 
to the kettle. Add sufficient water to make it the con- 
sistency of cream, bring it to boiling point, season and 
serve with croiitons. 



Il8 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

I pint of black turtle beans, i Yz quarts of boiling water, 

I quart of stock or one pound of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 

lean beef, Salt and pepper to taste, 

I lemon. If wine is used, one gill. 

Wash the beans well in cold water, soak over night. In 
the morning drain, put in a soup kettle with boiling water, 
if you use beef add it. Cover and simmer gently two 
hours. Now add another pint of boiling water, press all 
through a puree sieve. Wash the kettle, return the soup 
to it. Bring it to boiling point, salt and pepper. This 
soup should be thick, but if too thick, add sufficient water 
to make it of a proper consistency. Add one tablespoonful 
of grated onion and pour into the soup tureen over the eggs 
hard boiled and cut in slices, and the lemon cut in slices. 
Add the wine and serve at once. 

A very good way is to have the eggs hard boiled and cut 
in slices, and the lemon cut into slices and both covered 
with the wine about fifteen minutes before the soup goes 
into the tureen. 

CLEAR VEGETABLE SOUP. 

I shin, 5 quarts of cold water, 

I carrot, I turnip, 

I sweet potato, i white potato, 

I ear of com, i cup of peas, 

I cup of beans, i tomato, 

I tablespoonful of rice. 

Put the shin in a large kettle, cover with water, simmer 
gently thiee hours. This may be done the day before, if 
you wish. Then strain, remove every particle of fat from 
the surface and return to the soup kettle. If you make it 
the day before, the fat when cold, will float on the surface 



LENTIL SOUP. 119 

and can be removed in one solid cake. The soup or stock 
will be a perfectly clear jelly. In taking it from the bowl 
be careful to leave all the sediment behind so that you 
have a perfectly clear soup. Cut the vegetables into pieces 
of uniform size and add those requiring the longest cook- 
ing first. If you do not, the softer ones will impair the 
transparency of the soup. The carrot, turnip, sweet po- 
tato, beans, and rice mav be added one hour before serv- 
ing. The potato, peas, corn and tomato add twenty 
minutes before. Season with salt and pepper and serve. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

2 quarts of stock, 2 carrots, 

1 turnip, White part of head of celery, 

2 onions or six young leeks, A few pieces of cauhflower, 
A head of lettuce, 2 tablespoonfuls of peas, 

A few heads of asparagus. 

Make your stock according to the preceding recipe. 
Remove the fat. Put the stock in a soup kettle. Cut the 
carrot into fancy shapes or strips with a vegetable cutter, 
cut the turnip in the same way. Cut the onion into tiny 
pieces and the celery in pieces about half an inch long. 
Divide the cauliflower into flowerets. Cover all the vege- 
tables with boiling water and boil fifteen minutes. Drain 
in a colander, then add to the stock and simmer gently one 
hour. Then add the pieces of asparagus heads and simmer 
ten minutes. Then add the lettuce torn into pieces the size 
of a half dollar, cook five minutes, season with salt and 
pepper and serve. 

LENTIL SOUP. 
I pint of lentils, 2 quarts of stock, 

I onion, A sprig of parsley, 

A sprig of thyme, i bay-leaf, 

I tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the lentils, soak over night, in the morning drain 



I20 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

off the water. Wash, put them in a soup kettle, add the 
stock and swuner gently about one and a half hours. Put 
the butter in a frying-pan, when melted, add the onion 
sliced, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. Fry until a light 
brown, add this to the lentils and simmer a half hour 
longer. Press the whole through a puree sieve, return to 
the kettle, boil up once, add the salt and pepper and serve 
with squares of toasted bread. 

If the soup settles after you pour it into the tureen, your 
sieve is not sufficiently fine or your soup is not thick 
enough. By rubbing a tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour together and adding it to the soup, you will prevent 
the settling of the thick part to the bottom. 

ONION SOUP. 

I large Spanish or three ordinary 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
onions, 2 quarts of stock, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Peel the onions and cut them into slices. Put the butter 
in a frying-pan, when hot add the onions. Cover and 
stand. on the back part of the stove until the onions are 
tender without browning. Then put in the soup kettle with 
the stock, boil gently thirty minutes, add the salt and 
pepper. Press through a puree sieve and it is ready to 
serve. 

BISQUE OF TURNIP. 

4 good-sized ruta bagas, I quart of water, 

I pound of beef, I pint of milk, 

I onion. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the meat into the soup kettle with the water and the 
onion, add the turnips, simjuer gently ore hour. Then 
press through a puree sieve, return to the kettle, add the 
milk, bring to boiling point. Season and serve. If the 



HOTCH-POTCH. 121 

soup is too thick, add sufficient milk to make it of the 
proper consistency. One tablespoonful of butter stirred 
in just before you turn it into the tureen, improves it. 



COCK-A-LEEKIE. 

I chicken, about three pounds, 3 bunches of leeks, 

4 quarts of stock. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash the leeks, take off part of the heads and roots, cover 
with boiling water. Let them stand five minutes, cut 
them in pieces. Draw and truss the fowl ; put it in a 
kettle, add the leeks and stock. If without stock, water 
will answer. Cover and simmer slowly three hours, skim- 
ming at the first boil. When ready to serve, take out the 
chicken, remove the skin and cut the meat into dice. Put 
it into the tureen. Press the soup through a puree sieve, 
return to the kettle and bring to boiling point. Season 
with salt and pepper, pour over the chicken and serve. 

This soup is better the second day and will bear warm- 
ing over several times. 



HOTCH-POTCH. 

1 pound of lean beef, i knuckle of veal, 
The neck of mutton, 2 quarts of water, 

2 tablespoonfuls of rice, i onion, 

I root of celery, I blade of mace, 

3 cloves, I whole green pepper, 
3 turnips, i carrot, 

2 quarts of water. 

Cut the beef, veal and mutton in small pieces, put in the 
kettle with the water. Add the other ingredients, cover 
and simmer gently three hours. Season, add a half pint of 
green peas, cook ten minutes longer and serve. 



122 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

SOUP, a la MOUSQUETAIRE. 

I pint of shelled peas, A handful of sorrel, 

I pound of beef or a beef bone, l quart of water. 

Put the beef, peas, sorrel, and water in a soup kettle and 
cook over a slow fire about two hours. At the end of that 
time remove the beef, put it in a baking-pan, spread with 
butter, dust with salt and pepper, and put in a quick oven 
until nice and brown. When done, put in the centre 
of a meat dish, pour the contents of the kettle around and 
serve. Add seasoning, of course. 

POT au FEU. 

4 pounds of round beef, I clove of garlic. 

I onion, 2 carrots, 

A head of celery, A bay- leaf. 

Tie the meat into a nice shape, then put in a soup kettle 
and cover with boiling water. Let simmer gently two 
hours, skim at the first boil. Then put in the garlic cut 
in small pieces, the onion, bay-leaf, and the other vegeta- 
bles pared and cut into neat shapes. Simmer one hour 
longer, then, if you like, add two ounces of vermicelli. 
Boil ten minutes longer, season, and it is ready to serve. 
Put the meat in the centre of a large platter, arrange the 
vegetables neatly around it. 

SALADS. 

From time immemorial lettuce has occupied the most 
important place in all the salads. The Greeks served it at 
the end of their meals, while the Romans, who were apt to 
imitate them, conceived the idea of it as an appetizer, con- 
sequently they served it at the beginning of their dinners, 
accompanied with eggs. Its mild, sweet flavor was supposed 



SALADS. 



123 



to invite the most rebellious appetite. So highly did they 
treasure it that in the time of drought large beds of it were 
moistened with sweet wine, when they could not procure 
water. In those days, also, endless varieties of salads were 
made, but their materials were limited compared to what 
we have at present. Now the skillful and ingenious house- 
keeper may have a different salad almost every day in the 
month, and such salads may be wholesome, economical and 
refreshing. 

A simple French dressing with lettuce makes an appro- 
priate salad after a hearty meal. String beans nicely 
boiled and cut into strips lengthwise, also make a delightful 
after-dinner salad when served with French dressing. Heavy 
Mayonnaise dressing is best for chicken, lobster, fish and 
other meat salads, and seems appropriate for some vegeta- 
bles, as cauliflower, celery, tomatoes. 

Americans, as a rule, do not appreciate an after-dinner 
salad, but if they once accustomed themselves to it, their 
dinner forever after would be unfinished without it. 

To preserve the crispness and flavor of green vegetables 
for salads, throw them into ice-cold water, then dry on a 
soft towel and keep in a cold place until wanted. Lettuce 
is ruined by soaking it in water, and so are tomatoes. The 
dressing and vegetables should never be mixed until the 
moment they are ready to serve. In fact, I like to make 
the dressing at the table, and have the vegetables brought 
to me crisp and dry and dress them there. The salad must 
be served in the coldest of dishes, and when well made and 
garnished, is certainly the most attractive and wholesome 
dish on the table. In giving recipes for salads the dress- 
ings are the important parts. Oil or not oil is an ever- 
recurring question. While I cannot understand how a 
person can dislike the flavor of good olive oil, many do. 
Exact quantities cannot be given, especially if you con- 



124 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

sider the great diversity of tastes. Delmonico, it is 
said, used only one egg as a foundation for one quart of 
oil, with simply salt and cayenne for seasoning; while 
another noted cook used three eggs as a foundation for one 
pint of oil with onion and Tarragon vinegar as a flavoring. 
In preparing all kinds of salad dressing, a silver or wooden 
fork should be used, and all the materials should be very, 
very cold, and the oil as pure and fresh as possible. 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

I tablespoonful of vinegar, A dash of cayenne, 

}4 teaspoonful of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 

j^ teaspoonful of black pepper. 

Put the salt and pepper in a bowl and add gradually the 
oil. Mix in slowly the vinegar, stirring rapidly all the 
while. As soon as you have a perfect emulsion, that is, the 
dressing is well blended (the oil and vinegar), it is ready to 
use, and should be used at once. Many persons think 
French dressing is simply a mixture of oil and vinegar, and 
mix in the most careless way, but it should be just as care- 
fully made as Mayonnaise, so that when you pour it over 
the lettuce it will have a thick white appearance. 

Tarragon vinegar may be used in place of plain vinegar. 
Onion juice or a little garlic may also be added. 



AMERICAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, Yolk of one raw egg, 
I tablespoonful of vinegar, I gill of olive oil, 

j^ teaspoonful of salt. Dash of cayenne, 

^ teaspoonful of mustard. 

Before beginning to mix this dressing I would like to 
say one word about the mustard. I have told you that 



CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 1 25 

well-made salad is an exceedingly wholesome dish, — that 
does not mean the salad containing mustard. Leave the 
mustard out and almost any one can eat and digest a salad. 
It is the mustard which makes it unwholesome, but I am 
sorry to say, Americans seem to prefer unwholesome food. 

Mash the cooked yolks until perfectly smooth, then rub 
in the raw yolk. Work with an elastic bladed knife at 
least five minutes. Add the salt and pepper and the oil 
drop by drop. Stir rapidly and steadily all the while. 
Then add by degrees the vinegar and it is ready to use. 

More oil and vinegar may be added if more dressing is 
required ; it is not necessary to use a greater amount of 
eggs, but let the oil and vinegar make the quantity. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 

^ pint of milk, Yolks of three eggs, 

1 ounce of butter, 2 even tablespoonfuls of corn- 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, starch, 

I salt spoon of pepper, i teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the milk on to boil. Moisten the corn-starch with 
a little cold milk, add it to the boiling milk, and stir con- 
tinually until it forms a perfectly smooth, thick paste. 
Then hastily stir in the yolks well beaten. Cook one min- 
ute, take from the fire, add the salt, pepper, butter and 
vinegar. Stand until icy cold and it is ready to use. 



CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, i tablespoonful of melted butter, 
Yolk of one raw egg, i gill of t/izc^ cream, 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, )4 teaspoonful of salt, 

}^ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Mash the hard-boiled yolks until perfectly fine and 



126 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

work in gradually the raw yolk. This must be a perfectly 
smooth paste. Then add the salt, pepper and melted 
butter. When well blended add by degrees the cream, 
working and stirring all the while. Then add gradually 
the vinegar and it is ready to use. Put in a cold place. 



POTATO SALAD DRESSING. 

Press one boiled potato through a fine sieve. Add to it 
while warm, one tablespoonful of butter, and if liked, one 
tablespoonful of oil. Add one teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of cayenne, and work in gradually the uncooked 
yolks of two eggs. Two hard-boiled yolks should now be 
added, but first press them through a fine sieve. Add 
gradually one tablespoonful of either plain or Tarragon 
vinegar. Add a half teaspoonful of onion juice, or the 
dish may be rubbed with a piece of onion before putting 
in the ingredients. When well blended put in a cold place 
until wanted. 



MRS. RORER'S SALAD DRESSING. 

I teaspoonful of onion juice, I salt-spoonful of ginny pepper, 
I salt-spoonful of salt, ^ salt-spoonful of white pepper, 

4 tablespoonfuls of oil, ^ tablespoonful of Tarragon vin- 



Put the onion, pepper, salt and ginny pepper in a 
bowl, add gradually the oil, rubbing until it dissolves. 
Then work in gradually the vinegar. When you have a 
thick, well-blended dressing, pour it at once over lettuce 
or cold boiled string beans and serve. 

This is also nice with celery stuffed into tomatoes. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 1 27 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Put the uncooked yolks of two eggs into a clean, cold 
soup-dish, beat them well with a silver or wooden fork 
about one minute ; then add a half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of cayenne, and, if you like it, a half-teaspoonful of 
mustard. Work these well together, and then add, drop 
by drop, a half pint or more of olive oil. You must stir 
rapidly and steadily while adding the oil. Do not reverse 
the motion, or it may curdle. After adding one gill of 
oil, alternate occasionally with a few drops of lemon juice 
or vinegar. The more oil you use, the thicker the dressing. 
If too thick, add a half-tablespoonful or more of vinegar, 
until the proper consistency. More or less oil may be 
added, according to the quantity of dressing wanted. 
With care a quart bottle of oil may be stirred into the 
yolks of two eggs, alternating with a few drops of lemon 
juice or vinegar, after adding the first gill of oil. It is 
easier, however, to start with three yolks when making a 
quart of dressing. ' In case the dressing should curdle, 
/. d"., the egg and oil separate, which makes the dressing 
liquid, begin anew at once with the yolks of two eggs in 
another plate, and after stirring them well, add by tea- 
spoonfuls the curdled Mayonnaise, stirring all the while, 
and then finish by adding more oil as directed. 

In warm weather, it will take only one-half the time, if 
you put the dish in which you make the Mayonnaise on a 
piece of ice, or in a pan of ice-water ; the oil and eggs 
should also be cold. 

This dressing, if covered closely in a jar or tumbler, 
will keep in a cool place for one week. 



128 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 



Draw and singe a fowl, put in a kettle with just enough 
boiling water to keep it from burning, add a slice of onion, 
a bay-leaf, a few cloves, and a blade of mace. Cover the 
kettle and cook the chicken slowly until perfectly tender. 
This method of cooking will make the dark meat almost 
as white as the white meat. For special occasions use the 
white meat only ; the dark meat can be used for croquettes 
or other chicken entrees. When done put the chicken 
away until perfectly cold ; it is best always to cook it the 
day before using. Then remove the skin and cut the meat 
into dice. Cut and not tear ; remove the meat from the 
carcass in as large pieces as possible. Cut with a sharp 
knife, laying the meat in blocks a little larger than ordi- 
nary dice. Under no circumstances chop it. After it is 
properly cut, stand away in a cold place until wanted. 

Wash, brush and cut the white part of celery into pieces 
a half inch long. Dry on a soft towel and stand away in 
the cold until wanted. Now make your Mayonnaise dress- 
ing according to the recipe given. To each pint of 
chicken allow two-thirds of a pint of celery and one cup 
of Mayonnaise dressing. When ready to serve mix the 
celery and chicken and dust lightly with salt, white pepper 
or cayenne ; then mix with them the Mayonnaise. Gar- 
nish the salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves, heap in the 
salad and serve at once. The bowl may also be garnished 
with the white, crisp celery tops. One cup of whipped 
cream may be stirred into the Mayonnaise just before put- 
ting it over the chicken. This makes a lighter dressing and 
removes a little of the oily flavor. 

The liquor in which the chicken was boiled may be 
saved for soup. 



CRAB SALAD. I 29 

VEAL SALAD. 

This may be made precisely the same as chicken salad, 
using cold boiled veal instead of chicken. 

SWEET-BREAD SALAD. 

Clean and parboil one pair of sweet-breads. Then 
throw them into cold water to blanch a half hour. Remove 
the fat and every particle of the thin skin. Then cut into 
thin slices with a silver knife and stand away in a cold 
place until wanted. When ready to serve put one good- 
sized slice of onion in the bottom of the salad bowl and 
arrange over and around it crisp lettuce leaves. On top 
of this arrange the sweet-breads, cover with Mayonnaise 
dressing, and serve. 

This slice of onion gives just the faintest suspicion of 
onion and is a great improvement. 

CRAB SALAD. 

One dozen crabs, 2 heads of lettuce, 

2 roots of celery, Yz pint of Mayonnaise. 

Boil the crabs in salted water thirty minutes ; when per- 
fectly cold, pick out the meat and stand away until wanted. 
Brush and cut the celery into pieces a half inch long, 
when ready to serve mix with the crab meat, arrange neatly 
on a bowl with the lettuce leaves and serve the Mayon- 
naise in a separate bowl. A very pretty way is to arrange 
the celery and crab meat in the back shells of the crabs. 
Stand each on a salad plate on a bed of lettuce leaves, and 
pass Mayonnaise with them. 



130 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 



This may be made the same, although it is generally 
served on lettuce leaves without the celery, as it is in 
season when celery is not. 

Boiled fish left over from one meal, may be made into a 
salad for another. Simply serve on crisp lettuce leaves 
with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Canned salmon may also be served the same way. 



SHAD ROE SALAD. 

Wash one set of shad roes, put them in a saucepan, cover 
with boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt, cover the 
saucepan and sinwier gently twenty minutes. Be careful 
not to boil or the skin will burst. When done, lift from 
the water carefully with a skimmer and stand aside 
until perfectly cold. When ready to serve, remove the 
outside skin, and with a silver knife cut the roe into thin 
slices. Put a slice of onion in the centre of a dish and 
arrange around it crisp lettuce leaves. Heap the shad roe 
in the centre and pass it with a bowl of Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Shrimps, sardines, and anchovies may also be served on 
lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise. 



ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

I bundle of boiled asparagus, The rule for French dressing. 

Arrange the asparagus neatly on a flat dish, pour over it 
the French dressing and serve. 

This is an exceedingly nice salad for lunch. 



CAULIFLOWER SALAD. I3I 

FRENCH ARTICHOKE SALAD. 

Boil the artichokes until tender, and put them away until 
perfectly cold. At serving time put one drop of onion 
juice in the centre of each, arrange neatly on lettuce 
leaves and pass with them a bowl^of Mayonnaise. 



BEET SALAD. 

Slice and cut into dice sufficient cold beets to make one 
pint. When ready to serve heap in the centre of the salad 
dish, and cover with a half pint of sauce tartar. Garnish 
with curly parsley and serve. 



SALAD OF STRING BEANS. 

Trim one pint of young beans and boil until tender, 
when done, drain, and throw into cold water until per- 
fectly cold. Then dry on a soft towel and cut each bean 
into four pieces lengthwise. Arrange neatly on a salad 
dish, pour over French dressing and serve. 



CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

I medium-sized head of cauli- Half a pint of Mayonnaise, 
flower, 

Boil the cauliflower as directed for the vegetable, throw 
into cold water and when perfectly cold, pick apart into 
little flowerets. Place it on a soft dry towel or napkin. 
When ready to serve arrange neatly in a salad bowl, cover 
with Mayonnaise, dust with chopped parsley or chopped 
chives, and serve. 



132 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



CABBAGE SALAD. 



Cut into shreds the centre of a perfectly white, hard 
head of cabbage, arrange neatly in a salad bowl, cover 
with Mayonnaise and serve. 



CELERY SALAD. 

Cut the white stalks of celery into half inch pieces. To 
each pint of this allow a little over a gill of Mayonnaise. 
Dust the celery lightly with salt and pepper, mix with the 
dressing, heap on a cold dish. Garnish with the white tops 
of the celery and serve immediately. This salad is deci- 
dedly better mixed at the table. 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 

2 young cucumbers, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 

I tablespoonful of vinegar, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 

^ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Pare and slice the cucumbers very thin, throw them into 
cold water one hour, drain and dry. Do not, on any con- 
sideration, add salt to the water in which they are soaked. 
When ready to serve put them in a salad bowl, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Mix well the oil and vinegar, pour 
them over and serve at once. 

Sliced cucumbers should always accompany the fish 
course. 

SALAD OF CUCUMBER AND TOMATO. 

Pare and slice two good-sized cucumbers and soak in 
cold water one hour. Drain on a soft towel. Pare and cut 
into thick slices two red, solid tomatoes. Cover the bottom 
of a flat dish with crisp lettuce leaves, arrange the cucum- 



GERMAN SALAD. 133 

bers and tomatoes alternately in the dish. Serve with 
French dressing in a boat. 

Mrs. Rorer's salad dressing is especially nice with this 
salad. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil six eggs fifteen minutes, when done throw into cold 
water and remove the shells. Then cut them in slices, 
arrange them on a bed of lettuce leaves so that one slice 
overlaps the other. Make a plain French dressing, add to 
it a tablespoonful of chopped chives and a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley. Pour this over the salad, garnish with 
curly parsley and serve at once. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

Cut one carrot or one turnip into slices and then into 
diamonds, squares, or fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter. 
Throw them in boiling stock and cook until tender. Have 
ready two cold boiled potatoes, and if convenient, one 
beet. Cut in the same way. Then mix all the vegetables 
carefully in a basin, sprinkle over a tablespoonful of 
chopped onion or leek, cover with French dressing and 
serve garnished with water-cress. 

In Italy, this is served in a sort of bread crust, called 
Croustade. 

GERMAN SALAD. 

Throw a pint of sauerkraut into boiling water five min- 
utes. Drain, wash well in cold water. Cut into shreds 
sufficient red cabbage to make one pint, mix this with the 
sauerkraut. Chop one good-sized onion very fine, add to 
this a tablespoonful of chopped Chervil, one tablespoonful 
of grated horse-radish. Arrange endive neatly in a salad 



134 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

bowl, put this mixture in the centre, cover with French 
dressing and serve. 

Despite the homely things that this salad contains it is 
delicious. 

SWEDISH SALAD. 

Wash, trim and soak in cold water for one hour a good- 
sized mackerel, then cover it with boiling water, and sim- 
mer twenty minutes. Drain and cut into dice. Cut into 
small blocks sufficient cold roast beef to make a pint. Cut 
two boiled potatoes into dice. Mix one tablespoonful of 
capers, one tablespoonful of chopped gherkins, the same 
of chopped onion, the same of chopped parsley, ten good- 
sized olives, stoned, and two hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine ; add to this the beef, potato and mackerel. Mix 
carefully, and pour over it a half-pint of French salad 
dressing ; season highly with salt and cayenne. Put the 
whole in a salad bowl, and lay over the top two dozen cold 
raw oysters. 

CARDINAL SALAD. 

Wash and dry two heads of lettuce and a bunch of 
water-cress; cut two boiled red beets into thin slices; cut 
a half-dozen small red radishes into slices ; chop six hard- 
boiled eggs rather fine. Arrange the lettuce leaves nicely 
in a salad bowl ; mix the cress, radishes, beets, eggs and 
one sliced cucumber together, and mix with the whole a 
half-pint of cardinal Mayonnaise, which is made by add- 
ing beet juice to plain Mayonnaise. Put in the salad bowl 
on the lettuce leaves, and serve at once. 



MACEDOINE SALAD. 135 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Choose the crisp, centre leaves of a head of lettuce ; do 
not wash unless it is necessary. If, however, obliged to do 
so, do not break or separate the leaves from the head. 
Put it in a wire basket, and plunge in and out of a pan of 
cold water. Shake and dry each leaf carefully on a soft 
towel. Arrange neatly on a salad bowl and send with it 
to table a bowl of French dressing. 

While it is customary in this country to serve Mayon- 
naise with lettuce, it is certainly a mistake. The simple 
French dressing is more appropriate and refreshing. 

The following may be arranged and served the same : — 

Endive, Water-cress, Nasturtium blossom, 

Sorrel, Pepper grass, Turnip tops. 

Dandelions, Corn-salad. 



SUMMER SALAD. 

Peel and slice very thin two good-sized cucumbers. 
Trim and boil six artichokes. Prepare one root of celery 
by washing and cutting into small pieces. Slice one 
bunch or ten small red radishes. Mix the whole. Put 
them in a salad bowl, sprinkle with chopped Chervil ; cover 
with French dressing and serve. 



MACEDOINE SALAD. 

I boiled beet, 2 tablespoonfuls of cooked green 

I dozen boiled string beans, peas, 

yi cup of boiled asparagus tops, I boiled carrot, 
I small onion, A root of celery, 

y^ pint of Mayonnaise dressing. 

All the vegetables should be cut into proper sized pieces 
and mixed carefully together. They must also be perfectly 



136 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

free from moisture. Arrange neatly in a salad bowl, cover 
with Mayonnaise dressing and serve. 

Lemon juice may be added. Vegetables can be pur- 
chased in bottles ready prepared for this salad. 



POTATO SALAD. 

3 good-sized potatoes, i teaspoonful of salt, 

I salt-spoon of pepper, 9 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 

3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, I good -si zed onion, 

4 sprigs of parsley. 

Pare and boil the potatoes, and while boiling prepare 
the dressing. Put the salt and pepper in a bowl, add 
gradually the oil, then the vinegar, stir until you have a 
perfect emulsion. Slice the onion very, very fine, and as 
soon as your potatoes are done (not soft) remove the skins 
and cut them into slices. Cut them in the same bowl with 
the onions. Pour over while hot the dressing, and turn 
upside down carefully with a fork without breaking the 
potatoes. Dish, sprinkle over the parsley chopped fine, 
and stand in a cold place for one or two hours. Garnish 
the dish with parsley and pickled beets cut into fancy 
shapes. 

Sardines may also be used as a garnish, and for variety, 
a teaspoonful of anchovy paste may be added to the dress- 
ing. It is a great improvement. 

MAYONNAISE TOMATO SALAD. 

6 small solid tomatoes, ^ cup of Mayonnaise, 

Crisp part of one head of lettuce. 

Peel the tomatoes without scalding and stand in a cold 
place till very, very cold. Make the Mayonnaise and stand 
away until wanted. When ready to serve cut the tomatoes 



EGYPTIAN SALAD. 1 37 

in halves, or if small, simply remove the stem ends. Make 
a little nest of two or three lettuce leaves, arrange uni- 
formly on a dish, place a half tomato in each nest. Put a 
tablespoonful of Mayonnaise on top and serve immediately. 

TOMATO AND CELERY SALAD. 

Peel six good-sized tomatoes. Cut off the stem end and 
carefully take out the seeds without breaking the tomato. 
Cut the white part of two stalks of celery into small pieces. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, with the rule 
for Rorer dressing add it to the celery. Fill this into the 
tomatoes, stand them on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves and 
serve at once. 

Water-cress may be substituted for celery. 

SOUR ORANGE SALAD. 

This salad is especially nice to serve with roasted wild 
duck or woodcock. Peel and cut in slices four sour 
oranges, arrange on lettuce leaves, cover with Mayonnaise 
dressing and serve. 

ONION SALAD. 

Peel and cut in slices two large full green onions. 
Throw them in cold water twenty minutes. Peel and cut 
in slices two cucumbers, throw into the same water, drain 
and dry on a soft towel. Arrange them neatly, slices of 
cucumber, and onion overlapping. Pour over French 
dressing and serve. 

EGYPTIAN SALAD. 

Wash the crisp parts of three heads of endive. Dry on 
a soft towel and arrange neatly on a flat dish. Sprinkle it 



138 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

with three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, then a tablespoonful 
of chopped onion. Mix together one tablespoonful of 
honey (if you have it), if not, one tablespoonful of sugar 
and one of vinegar. Add a half teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of white pepper. Pour over the endive and serve. 



CANNING. 

Vegetable canning is very much more difficult than fruit 
canning. Corn and peas are, however, the most difficult 
vegetables to keep. To be perfectly successful one must 
choose only perfectly sound vegetables and fruits. If one 
has to purchase, it is false economy to purchase those 
on the verge of decay, even at greatly reduced rates, as 
they will ferment after canning and will then be entirely 
lost. Besides the loss of the fruits, you frequently lose 
the cans also. Buy large fruits ; after paring they should 
immediately be thrown into water to prevent discolora- 
tion, then boiled in clear water until they are tender, 
then again in the syrup, and finished as directed in the 
following recipes. 

Small fruits retain their shapes more perfectly if sugared 
one or two hours before cooking. Large-mouthed glass 
jars with porcelain-lined or glass tops should be used. They 
should be properly heated before filling and filled quickly 
through a wide-mouthed funnel to overflowing. A silver 
spoon-handle should be passed around the inside of the jars 
to break any air-bubbles that may be there, then the tops 
should be screwed on without delay. While filling the jars, 
place them on a folded towel to prevent breakage. After 
sealing, stand the jars in a warm part of the kitchen over 
night. In the morning tighten the covers again, as the 
glass contracts after cooling. Put them away in a cool 



CANNING. 139 

(not cold) dry, dark closet. In a week examine each jar 
carefully, without disturbing it more than is necessary. If 
the lids are slightly indented, the contents free from any 
air-bubbles, and the liquid or fruit settled, rest assured 
your fruit or vegetables will keep. If, on the contrary, 
you find a frothy appearance around the jars, the lids 
bulged, and the fruit sharply inclining to the top, open the 
jars at once to prevent bursting. Fruits may be re-cooked 
and used at once; never can them again. Vegetables 
must, of course, be thrown away. 

In canning fruits use only the best granulated sugar, and 
they may be canned with or without sugar, as it takes no 
part whatever in the preservation of the fruit. Fruit 
canned with an inferior quality of sugar will become mud- 
dled and ferment easily. The surplus juice from the small 
fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries and plums, may be 
strained and boiled down for jelly. 

A porcelain-lined kettle, rather broad than deep, is best 
for canning. Copper or brass must be thoroughly cleansed, 
and even then the articles are more or less imbued with 
verdigris that is produced by the action of the acids, fruits 
and vegetables. Small oil or gas stoves are most convenient 
for canning and preserving, or for jelly making. The kettle 
being immediately over an even and intense heat, gives the 
contents a chance to boil quickly, thus retaining the color 
and flavor of the fruits. If these directions are carefully 
followed and a small quantity of fruits or vegetables canned 
at one time, not one can in a hundred will be lost. 



I40 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

FRUITS.-APPLES. 

I pound of sugar, 4 pounds of apples, 

I quart of water. Juice and rind of one lemon. 

Take fine, ripe golden or hollow-cord pippins or bell- 
flowers. Pare, core and throw them into cold water. 
When you have sufficient to fill two jars take from the 
water, weigh, put them in a porcelain-lined kettle, cover 
with boiling water, bring quickly to boiling point standing 
over a moderate fire, where they will scarcely bubble until 
tender enough to admit a straw. While cooking put the 
sugar in another kettle, stirring with a wooden spoon until 
the sugar dissolves ; add the grated yellow rind and juice 
of a lemon, boil three minutes. With a perforated skimmer 
lift the apples from the water, hold them a moment to drain, 
and slide them carefully into the boiling syrup, continuing 
this until the bottom of the kettle is nicely covered. Cook 
the apples in this syrup until they have a clear appearance. 
Then lift them carefully and slide one at a time into a jar. 
Fill the jars to overflowing with the syrup, screw on the top 
and finish as directed. 

Quinces may be added to the apples or apples and pine- 
apples may be mixed. Apples and pine-apple are delicious. 



BLACKBERRIES. 

To every pound of blackberries allow a quarter of a pound 
of sugar. Put the berries in a porcelain-lined kettle, sprinkle 
over the sugar, stand aside one or two hours. Then put over 
a moderate fire, bring to boiling point, skim and can imme- 
diately. 



CANNING. PEACHES. I41 

CHERRIES. 

Stone the cherries, and if pie or Morello allow a half pound 
of sugar to every pound of cherries ; in ox-hearts, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Proceed as for blackberries. They 
may also be canned with the stones in, and to my taste are 
very much better. 

All small fruits may be canned after the same fashion. 

PLUMS. 

Stem and wash the plums, and to every pound of plums 
allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. If the plums are 
large prick the skin to prevent their bursting. If green or 
yellow gages, it is best to remove the skins by scalding. 
Cover the fruit with the sugar and stand aside over night. 
This should be done in large meat plates or earthen dishes. 
In the morning put sufficient to fill two cans at a time, in 
a porcelain-lined kettle, bring to a boil, simmer until soft 
without breaking. Skim and can as directed. 

PEACHES. 

4 pounds of peaches, i pound of sugar, 

I quart of water. 

Pare the peaches, remove the stones, drop each half at 
once into cold water to prevent discoloration. Put the 
sugar and water in a porcelain-lined kettle, stand over the 
fire and stir continually until the sugar dissolves, boil and 
skim. Drain the peaches, drop them into the syrup, bring 
them quickly to the boil and then cook slowly until tender. 
Lift each piece carefully and arrange neatly in a jar. Then 
fill the jars quickly to overflowing. Seal and stand aside 
to cool. 

Can pears in precisely the same way. 



142 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



QUINCES. 



Pare, core and quarter the quinces or cut them into 
rings. Throw them at once into cold water. Save the 
parings and knotted pieces for jelly, being careful to reject 
the core and seeds, as they contain mucilage which pre- 
vents the liquid jellying. Remember there is a difference 
between jelly and mucilage. When you pare sufficient to 
make two jars, take the pieces from the water, put in a 
porcelain-lined kettle, cover with boiling water and boil 
until tender. While they are cooking, put the sugar and 
water in another kettle, allowing half a pound of sugar to 
half a pint of water for each pound of quinces. Boil and 
skim. Lift the quinces from the water, put them in the 
syrup and sijjimer gently. They should scarcely bubble 
until the quinces are clear and of a bright red color. 
White quinces may look beautiful, but they are certainly 
inferior in taste. 

If canning several jars of quinces, they should all be 
boiled in the same water and this water saved to boil with 
the skins and knotted pieces for jelly. Fresh syrup must, 
of course, be made for each lot, as you will have only 
enough to fill the jar. 



VEGETABLES.-ASPARAGUS. 

Trim the asparagus and throw the pieces into cold water. 
Then select quart jars. Arrange the asparagus butts down 
and thoroughly fill the jars. Throw straw or hay in the 
bottom of a wash boiler, or, better still, White jar holder, 
stand the jars on this and pour in sufficient cold water to 
nearly cover. Lay the lids on top, put the boiler over the 
fire and cover closely. Boil steadily three hours. Take 
up the jars, see that they are filled to overflowing. This 



CANNING — CORN, 1 43 

must be done with boiling water. Screw on the covers as 
tightly as possible, stand aside where the air will not strike 
them for one or two hours. Then put in a cool place to 
cool. When cool, again screw on the covers and put in a 
dark, dry place. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Select perfectly sound lima beans, put into the jars 
uncooked, then fill the jars full of cold water. Lay on the 
tops and finish precisely the same as asparagus, cooking the 
same length of time. 

BEANS. 

String the beans, cut them in several pieces, throw them 
into boiling water, boil rapidly fifteen minutes. Have the 
jars ready, filled with warm water to slightly heat them. 
Empty them and fill quickly with the beans, and seal pre- 
cisely the same as for fruit. 

CORN. 

Select perfectly fresh corn, remove the husks and silk, 
and carefully cut the corn from the cob. Corn for canning 
should never remain in the house over night. It is almost 
impossible to keep, doing your very best, and will not 
keep if not freshly picked. Pack the corn in the jars 
and press down closely, filling each jar to the very top. 
Put on the tops and screw them down. Arrange in a wash 
boiler as previously directed. Pour around the jars suffi- 
cient cold water, put the lid on the boiler and boil continu- 
ously three hours. Watch carefully, seeing that there is 
sufficient water to make a full volume of steam. When 
done, lift out the jars and screw down the covers as tightly 
as possible. Stand aside to cool, and when cold give them 
another screw and keep in a dark, cool place. 



144 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

CORN AND TOMATOES. 

By mixing tomatoes with corn very little difficulty will 
be found in keeping. While corn ferments quickly alone, 
the acid of the tomatoes seems to assist in its preservation. 

Stew the tomatoes until a proper thickness, then add 
a sufficient quantity of corn, boil slowly about half an 
hour. Fill the jars to overflowing, seal as directed. 

GUMBO AND TOMATOES. 

Gumbo, or okra, and tomatoes may be canned together, 
and are found very valuable for soups. They also make a 
delightful scallop for the winter season. Simply cook all 
together and can as previously directed. 

TOMATOES. 

Scald the tomatoes and remove the skins. Put them in 
a porcelain-lined kettle, bring slowly to a boil, simmer 
thirty minutes. Put them boiling hot into the jars, fasten 
the lids and stand in a cool place. When cold again screw 
the lids and keep them in a dark, dry closet. Tomatoes are 
easiest of all vegetables to keep. 

PEAS. 

Shell freshly gathered peas, wash them and put in the 
jars uncooked. Fill the jars with cold water and finish 
precisely the same as lima beans. 

CITRON. 

Pare off the outer skin, cut the citron in halves, remove 
the seeds, then divide each half into a number of small 



CANNING — RHUBARB JAM. 145 

pieces. These pieces may be cut into fancy shapes or left 
plain. Put them in a stone jar, add a half cup of salt 
to every five pounds of citron. Cover with cold water, 
stand aside five hours. Drain, cover with fresh, cold 
water, soak two hours, changing the water three or four 
times. If you wish them crisp, dissolve one teaspoonful 
of powdered alum in two quarts of boiling water, add the 
citron and bring to boiling point. Drain, throw into cold 
water fifteen minutes and drain again. 

Make a syrup from two and a half pounds of granulated 
sugar, and one and a half quarts of boiling water. Boil 
and skim. This is to fifteen pounds of fruit. When the 
syrup is perfectly clear put in the citron and simmer until 
you can pierce it with a straw. Then lift it carefully with 
a skimmer and spread on large platters. Stand in the hot 
sun two hours to harden. Chip the yellow rind from one 
large lemon, add the syrup, then add the strained juice 
of two lemons, and one and a half ounces of green ginger 
root cut into thin slices. Boil gently ten minutes and 
stand aside until wanted. 

When the citron hardens, put it, cold, into jars. Bring 
the syrup again to the boil, strain over the citron. Cover 
the jars and keep in a dark, dry place. 

Watermelon rind may be preserved in precisely the 
same manner. 

RHUBARB JAM. 

Wash young rhubarb and cut it into pieces about one 
inch long. Do not peel. Weigh, and to each pound allow 
three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar. Put it in 
a porcelain kettle, bring slowly to boiling point, then boil 
and stir continually three-quarters of an hour. Put this 
in jars and hermetically seal, or it will keep in tumblers 
tied with paper. This makes excellent pies in winter. 

ID 



146 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

PRESERVED PUMPKIN CHIPS. 

Late pumpkins are best for this purpose, and in fact the 
preserves may be made in winter, as pumpkins will keep 
perfectly well during the year. 

Select a fine ripe one, of a deep yellow color, cut it into 
halves, then into narrow strips, pare off the outer rind and 
remove the seeds. Now cut the strips into thin shavings, 
weigh these shavings, and allow to each one pound one 
pound of granulated sugar. Secure several dozen of nice, 
ripe lemons, as it will require one gill of lemon juice to 
each pound of fruit. Pare the lemons and squeeze out the 
juice. If you use a glass lemon squeezer it is not neces- 
sary to pare them. Spread the pumpkin chips on large 
platters, sprinkle the sugar over them, then the lemon 
juice ; stand in a cool place over night. In the morning 
put them into a porcelain-lined kettle, and cook slowly for 
an hour and a quarter, or until the pumpkin becomes ten- 
der, crisp and transparent. Stir carefully and cook slowly, 
as the pieces must not break or lose their form. Skim 
frequently as the scum comes to the surface. When the 
chips are done, lift them carefully with a skimmer, and put 
them in tumblers or jars ; strain the syrup through a flan- 
nel bag that has been wrung from boiling water, and pour 
it over the chips. When cold tie up the same as jelly. 



FRUIT JELLIES. 

APPLE JELLY. 

One recipe for jelly will really answer for all kinds, as 
the acidity of the fruit has nothing whatever to do with 
the quantity of the sugar. No matter what kind of jelly, 
allow one pound of sugar to one pint of juice. 



APPLE JELLY. I 47 

In apple jelly select the apples with the largest amount 
of pectin ; Lady-blush or fall pippins are best. The first 
makes a bright red jelly, the latter a jelly almost white. 
Wipe the fruit, cut into pieces without paring or removing 
the seeds. Put them in a porcelain kettle and barely cover 
with water. Cover the kettle and boil about fifteen min- 
utes or until the apples are thoroughly tender. Then 
drain in a flannel jelly bag. Do not squeeze or press or 
the jelly will be clouded. To every pint of juice allow 
one pound of granulated sugar. Put the juice in a porce- 
lain kettle, bring quickly to a boil, add the sugar, stir 
until the sugar dissolves. Then boil rapidly and contin- 
uously until it jellies, about fifteen or twenty minutes. 

It may be necessary to boil it thirty or thirty-five min- 
utes before it jellies properly. It is wise, however, to 
commence testing after the first fifteen minutes' boiling. 
To do this, take out a teaspoonful of boiliTig jelly, put it 
on the bottom of a saucer, and stand in a cold place for 
a moment. Then scrape to one side with a spoon. If 
jellied, the surface will be partly solid. If it remains 
liquid, go on boiling and try again. Remember while 
that jelly has been cooling, the boiling is going on, and 
it is wise to try again at once. If boiled past jellying 
point, you will have a thick, sticky syrup and nothing will 
make it jelly. This mistake occurs frequently where per- 
sons do not understand the chemical process of jelly mak- 
ing ; they boil it too long. 

Just as soon as the surface in the saucer jellies, roll the 
tumblers quickly in boiling water ; remove the jelly from 
the fire and fill the tumblers ; stand aside uncovered for 
twenty-four hours. Then fasten the tops with two layers 
of tissue paper ; the edges may be pasted down with the 
white of egg. Do not use metallic covers or even paste- 
board, or your jelly will become sour and ooze out of the 



148 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

tumblers. After the tops are thoroughly fastened and the 
edges dry, dip a paste-brush or sponge in water and just 
moisten the top of the paper. This moistening stretches 
the paper, and as it dries again it shrinks and forms a cover- 
ing as smooth and tight as bladder skin. I do not recom- 
mend jelly covered with brandied paper. In my hands it 
is never satisfactory. Jelly in cooling forms its own air- 
proof cover, and then, if it has a porous top, like paper, 
will keep forever. A dark, cool closet is best for it. All 
jellies can be made after this recipe. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Cut the crab apples into halves, then into quarters, 
weigh, put in a porcelain kettle, and to each five pounds 
allow one pint of water. Proceed and finish precisely the 
same as for apple jelly. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

The uncultivated blackberries are best for jelly and 
should be rather under than over ripe. Put the berries in 
a stone jar, stand in a kettle of cold water, cover the top 
of the jar and heat slowly until the berries are soft. Then 
put a small quantity at a time in a jelly bag and squeeze 
out all the juice. Measure this juice and allow one pound 
of granulated sugar to one pint. Turn the juice into a 
porcelain-lined kettle and bring to boiling point over a 
brisk fire. Put the sugar in earthen dishes and stand in 
the oven to heat. Boil the juice rapidly and continuously 
twenty minutes. By this time the sugar should be very hot, 
not brown. Turn it in hastily at the end of twenty minutes, 
stirring until the sugar dissolves. Dip the tumblers quickly 
in hot water. Watch the liquid carefully and as soon as it 



BRANDIED PEACHES. 1 49 

goes to boil, take from the fire and fill the tumblers. If 
you follow this recipe carefully success is sure. 

If, on the other hand, you fail, make up your mind it is 
not the fault of the recipe, as it has been well tried. If 
the fruit is very ripe, or has been picked a day or longer, 
your jelly will never be firm, and the longer you boil it the 
more liquid it will become. In fact, it will become syrup. 

Currant, damson and grape jelly may be made in pre- 
cisely the same manner. 

PEACH JELLY. 

This should be made the same as apple jelly, and is the 
hardest of all jellies, except pear, to make. 

RHUBARB JELLY. 

Wash and wipe the stalks, and, without paring, cut them 
in pieces an inch long. Put in a porcelain kettle, allowing 
one pint of water to four pounds of rhubarb. Boil to a soft 
pulp, turn into a jelly bag and finish precisely the same as 
apple jelly. 

BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Take large white or yellow free stone peaches, not over 
ripe. Scald them by pouring over boiling water, cover and 
let stand till the water becomes cold. Repeat this scalding, 
then take them out and rub with a soft cloth until perfectly 
dry. Put into stone jars ; cover with brandy. Tie paper 
over the tops of the jars and let remain for one or two 
weeks. Then make the syrup from one pound of granu- 
lated sugar, and a half pint of water to each pound of 
peaches. Boil and skim. Put the peaches in this syrup and 
simmer till tender. Take out, drain and put in glass jars. 
Stand the syrup aside to cool ; when cold, mix equal quan- 



150 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

tities of syrup and brandy in which you had the peaches. 
Pour over the peaches, tie up and put away. 

If you prefer the peaches pared, simply pare them, cook 
until tender in the syrup, place them in jars. When the 
syrup is cold mix with it an equal quantity of brandy, pour 
this over the peaches, seal, and keep in a cool, dark place. 



TO PICKLE LIMA AND STRING BEANS. 

Lima beans and string beans may be packed in salt pre- 
cisely like cucumbers ; that is, a layer may be put in the 
bottom of a cask, then a layer of salt, then another layer 
of beans. The top of the cask should be fixed precisely 
tha same as for salting cucumbers. In winter, when ready 
to use, wash thoroughly in cold water and soak over night 
in clear cold water. Then cook the same as fresh vegeta- 
bles, changing the water once or twice while cooking. 
To my taste, this way of preserving beans is far better than 
canning. 

Green tomatoes, sliced, may be prepared in precisely 
the same manner. 

The following is a list of vegetables and their season for 
pickling : — 

Artichokes — July and August. 

Beans — July and August. 

Cabbage — September. 

Red cabbage — September. 

Cauliflower — August and September. 

Celery — October and November. 

Cucumbers — July to the middle of August. 

Martynias — July and August. 

Musk-melon and cantaloupe — First to the middle of 
September. 

Nasturtiums — August and September. 



SPICED CANTALOUPE. 151 

Onions — August. 
Parsley — October. 
Peppers — August. 
Tomatoes (green) — September. 
Tomatoes (ripe) — August. 

Walnuts — Latter part of June, or the early part of July, 
the first week the walnuts form. 



SPICED CANTALOUPE. 

Cut the cantaloupes in halves, remove the seeds, then cut 
in thin sections, take off the rind. When you have a 
sufficient quantity, weigh the pieces and to each seven 
pounds allow : — 

4 pounds of sugar, I pint of vinegar, 

^ ounce of ginger root, I teaspoonful of ground cloves, 

2 teaspoonfuls of ground allspice, 2 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon, 
y^ teaspoonful of ground mace. 

Mix the spices and divide them into four parts; put 
each part in a small square of muslin, tie tightly, allowing 
sufficient room for the spices to swell. Put the sugar and 
vinegar in a porcelain-lined kettle, add the spices, and 
ginger root, scraped and cut into slices. Stand the kettle 
over the fire, and when the contents are boiling add the 
cantaloupe. Take at once" from the fire and stand aside 
in a cool place over night. Next day, drain all the liquor 
from the cantaloupes and in a porcelain kettle bring it 
again to the boiling point. Pour this over the cantaloupes 
and stand aside until the next day. The following morn- 
ing drain and heat the syrup as before, and do this for 
nine consecutive days. The last day boil the cantaloupes 
until perfectly tender, a small quantity at a time. Then 
the liquor must be boiled down until a thick syrup and 



152 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

just enough to cover the fruit. Put in jars or tumblers 
and tie up for keeping. 

The following fruits must be spiced in precisely the same 
manner, and if directions are carefully followed success is 
sure, and the fruit will be perfectly delicious: — 

Apples, peaches, cherries, pears, plums, quinces, water- 
melon. 



FLAVORED VINEGARS. 

CELERY. 

^ pound of celery seed or a i quart of cider vinegar, 
half dozen roots of celery, i teaspoonful of salt, 
2 teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar. 

If you use the celery seed, simply mix all the ingredients 
together, put in a porcelain-lined kettle, bring to boiling 
point. When cold, bottle, shake every day for two weeks, 
strain through a fine cloth or filter. Bottle and cork 
tightly. Put away to flavor salad dressings and sauces. 

If the celery roots are used, take off the outside and cut 
the roots into thin slices, add to the vinegar and proceed 
precisely the same as when you use the celery seed. 

CHILI VINEGAR. 

This is made by simply infusing fifty small peppers in 
one pint of best white-wine vinegar. 

HORSE-RADISH VINEGAR. 

I teacup of grated horse-radish, I tablespoonful of granulated 
I quart of cider vinegar, sugar. 

Put the horse-radish in two glass jars, bring the vinegar 
to the boiling point, add the sugar and pour over the horse- 



SOUP POWDER. 153 

radish. Screw the tops on the jars, shake once a day for 
one week. Strain, bottle, and seal, and it is ready to use. 



ONION VINEGAR. 

1 quart of vinegar, I teaspoonful of salt, 

2 teaspoonfuls of granulated 2 large onions. 

sugar. 

Grate the onions, mix with them the salt and sugar, let 
stand two hours and add the vinegar. Turn into bottles, 
shake every day for two weeks, strain through a fine cloth, 
bottle, cork, and seal. 

This onion vinegar may be used for salads and sour meat 
dishes where a very delicate onion flavor is desired. 

TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

Put in a wide-mouthed bottle one cup of freshly gath- 
ered tarragon leaves. Cover with a quart of good, cold 
cider vinegar. Cork bottle and stand aside two weeks. 
Shake frequently. Then strain and squeeze through a 
flannel bag. Pour into small bottles, cork, seal and keep 
in a cool place. 

This vinegar is an agreeable addition to all salads and 
fish sauces. 

SOUP POWDER. 

Take of lemon peel, thyme, sweet marjoram and parsley 
each one ounce. Dry carefully on paper in a warm oven, 
then pound in a mortar and rub through a fine sieve. Add 
one drachm (one teaspoonful) of powdered celery seed, 
bottle and cork. 

One teaspoonful of this may be added to each quart of 
soup. 



154 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 



HOW TO DRY HERBS. 



It is of the utmost importance that food should be well 
seasoned and palatable. Herbs and seasoning are as im- 
portant as the food itself. They bring back the languid 
appetite and encourage one to eat when he would not other- 
wise do so. During the summer, when herbs are in their 
highest state of perfection, full of juices and just before 
flowering, they should be gathered and dried. This should 
always be done on a perfectly dry day, early in the morn- 
ing or after sundown. Cleanse thoroughly from dust and 
dirt, cut off the roots and spread the herbs on squares of 
brown paper. Put them in a warm oven, dry quickly, 
to preserve the flavor. If allowed to dry gradually the 
heat dries off the aroma and they will be almost tasteless. 
Care must be taken that they do not brown or scorch, as 
this also destroys the flavor. 

When dry, pick the leaves from the stems, put them into 
bottles or jars and cork tightly. They must be perfectly 
cold before going into the bottles or they will sweat and 
sour. Mark each bottle or jar plainly on the outside, to 
save confusion when wanted for use. 



TO SERVE FRUIT. 

The French, when serving fruit, exhibit much greater 
taste than the Americans. The arrangements are not only 
better, but also the method of serving and the decorations. 
For instance, strawberries are served whole, without being 
stemmed, and a small dish of powdered sugar is passed 
with them, or sometimes they are dipped in fondant, at 
others, in white of egg and powdered sugar. 

Peaches are served in a pretty basket, decorated with 
fall flowers, and here and there bunches of their own leaves. 



TO SERVE FRUIT. 1 55 

Hollyhocks are particularly appropriate. The beautiful 
white and red currants may be dipped in white of egg, 
then in sugar and dried on a sieve, then neatly arranged 
on a pretty glass dish garnished with freshly picked roses. 
These, as you can readily understand, will make a most 
beautiful breakfast dish. Cherries should be served in 
large bunches, and may be mixed with other fruits that are 
in season at the same time. All fruit should be served cold ; 
some, however, will bear to be chilled, while the flavor of 
many fruits is entirely destroyed by chilling. 

Watermelons and cantaloupes should be first washed, then 
put in a cold place several hours before serving. To serve 
them, cut them in halves, cut thin slices from the convex 
ends, allowing them to stand firmly on a plate. Scoop out 
the pulp of the watermelons in egg-shaped pieces with a 
spoon. Cantaloupes should be served in halves, the- seeds 
carefully removed, the fruit eaten with a spoon. The 
large banana cantaloupes, of course, should be cut in 
convenient-sized pieces. Sugar, salt and pepper should be 
passed with them. Cantaloupes are pretty, served on a bed 
of fresh grape leaves. 

Pineapples should be pared with a silver knife, the eyes 
carefully removed, and the fruit then picked into small 
pieces with a silver fork ; cutting destroys the flavor. 
Deluge the pieces in sugar and stand away for one or two 
hours to get perfectly cold. 

Raspberries, one of the most delicate of all fruits, should 
be very carefully looked over and kept in a cool place until 
serving time. Then serve in a pretty glass dish; they must 
never be sugared before serving ; pass sugar with them. 
Raspberries may also be moistened with orange or currant 
juice, just before being sent to the table. Blackberries 
should be carefully looked over and slightly chilled before 
serving; they must not, however, be icy cold. They should 



156 HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES. 

be sugared about five minutes before serving time and 
arranged in a pretty glass dish. A very pretty way to serve 
small fruit is to have heaped in the centre of a large, flat 
glass dish, a mound of whipped cream with the fruit around 
it. 

TO POP CORN. 

Shell perfectly dry pop-corn. Put about half a cupful 
(one gill) of corn in an ordinary corn popper, a square 
wire pan with a long handle. Shake it over a clear hot fire 
until thoroughly dry, and as soon as it begins to pop shake 
rapidly. If the fire is too hot it will scorch the corn and 
prevent its popping. The more rapidly you shake, expos- 
ing all sides of the corn to the air, the better and more 
quickly it pops. When the popping ceases open the pop- 
per, turn the corn into a large bowl. Have ready about 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter ; pour this slowly over 
the corn, stirring constantly with a wooden fork. The 
corn must be thoroughly greased without being oily. Dust 
lightly with salt and it is ready to serve. This is the more 
wholesome way of serving pop-corn. Some prefer it moist- 
ened with syrup, and in that case it is more indigestible. 



POP-CORN BALLS. 

Put a quarter of a pound of sugar and one gill of water 
in a saucepan. Boil five minutes, skim. This should 
form a rather thick syrup. Pop the corn as directed, turn 
into a bowl and pour the syrup in a fine stream over the 
corn, stirring all the while. A few drops of lemon juice 
or vanilla may be added to the syrup. Grease your hands 
lightly, take about two tablespoonfuls of the corn and 
press gently in the form of a ball. Stand these balls on a 
greased paper to dry and they are ready to use. 



BILLS OF FARE. I57 

BILLS OF FARE. 

It is frequently of great convenience to housekeepers to 
have arranged for them a few simple, as well as more elabo- 
rate bills of fare. The first are intended to act as guides 
for ordinary family tables, the second as assistants to a com- 
pany luncheon or dinner. Still, from a proper standpoint, 
the company luncheon should never be more elegant than 
the everyday family table. To a well living family, the 
announcement of one or two guests means only two extra 
plates at the table. 

An appropriate and healthful bill of fare implies both 
taste and discrimination. For instance, heavy soup should 
never be served where a large dinner is to follow. A clear, 
light soup should always precede a course dinner, and a 
heavy soup a small dinner or lunch. If one wants a more 
elaborate bill of fare, let raw oysters precede the soup, 
and this be followed by fish. Potatoes of some kind 
should be served with fish, also sliced cucumbers. Rad- 
ishes and gherkins, salted almonds, olives and such dishes 
as are considered appetizers, should be placed on the table 
immediately after the soup, and allowed to remain until the 
table is cleared for dessert. Never serve more than two 
vegetables with any one course, and do not feel it abso- 
lutely necessary always to serve potatoes. Rice is much 
more appropriate with lamb^ mutton or chicken, and for 
my own taste, I prefer it with veal. In fact, one can serve 
veal with either spinach or chervil, omitting potatoes en- 
tirely. Green peas and asparagus tops accompany lamb ; 
the course should not be spoiled with potatoes. Light en- 
trees, such as sweetbreads, croquettes, meat patties, may 
follow the fish. Peas may be served at the same time. 
Black-birds, reed-birds or any small birds may be served 
with lettuce and French dressing. Small chicken croquettes 



158 BILLS OF FARE. 

and lobster cutlets are delightful served this way. With 
duck, wood-cock, snipe or partridge, serve baked macaroni 
with cheese. Let the salad be a course by itself, a water 
cracker and small bit of cheese alone accompanying it. 

For breakfast and supper it is not necessary always to 
have a meat dish, especially during the heated term. The 
following bills of fare are arranged so that each day con- 
tains a luncheon and a supper. This will accommodate 
persons dining in the middle of the day and also those 
who dine in the evening. 

SPRING BILLS OF FARE. 

Breakfast. 
Sliced Oranges, 
Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream 
Fried Brook Trout, Plain Omelet, 

Stewed Potatoes, 

Rice Waffles, Coffee, 

Lunch. 

Broiled Lamb Chops, Tomato Sauce, 

Parker House Rolls, 

Mayonnaise of Salmon, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Preserved Ginger, Wine Biscuit, 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup, 

Braised Beef's Tongue, Potato Puff, 

Spinach, Egg Sauce, Buttered Beets, 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Orange Bavarian Cream, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Thin Slices of Cold Tongue, Water-cress, 

Milk Biscuit, Honey, 

Gingerbread, Tea. 



SPRING BILLS OF FARE. 159 

Breakfast. 
Baked Bananas, 
Hominy, Sugar and Milk, 
Panned Beefsteak, Shirred Eggs, . 

Plain Muffins, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Fish Cutlets, Cream Sauce, 

Sliced Cucumbers, Toasted Cheese, 

Stewed Fruit, Wafers, 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Herb Soup, 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce, 

Boiled Rice, Stewed Tomatoes, 

Salad of Water-cress, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Caramel Pudding, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Thin Slices of Cold Mutton, Potato Roll, 

Preserved Cranberries, Apees, 

Russian Tea. 



Breakfast. 

Stewed Rhubarb, 

Wheat Granules, Sugar and Cr^am, 

Broiled Ham, Beauregard Eggs, 

French P>ied Potatoes, 

Rice Mufifuis, Coffee. 

Lunch. 
Fried Oysters, Water-cress, 

Cold Slaw, Cheese Souffle, 
Lemon Jelly, New York Cookies, 

Tea. 



l6o BILLS OF FARE. 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup with Green Peas, 

Roasted Chicken, Giblet Sauce, Cranberry Jelly, 

Bermuda Potatoes, Parsley Sauce, Cauliflower, 

Asparagus on Toast, 

Salad of String Beans, 

Wafers, Fairy Toast, Cheese, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 
Chicken Salad, Milk Biscuit, 

Preserves, Rolled Jelly Cake, 

' Tea. 



Breakfast. 

Shaddocks, 

Moulded Farina, Whipped Cream, 

Stewed Kidney, Saratoga Potatoes, 

Spanish Omelet, 
Pop-overs, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Deviled Clams, Oatmeal Wafers, 

Banana Fritters, Powdered Sugar, 

Dover Cake, Cocoa. 

Dinner. 
Puree of Vegetables, 
Irish Stew, Boiled Rice, 

Sliced Cucumbers, 

Oyster Salad, 
Wafers, Cheese, 

Rhubarb Pie, 
Coffee. 

Supper. 

Fricassee of Oysters, Tea Rolls, 

Canned Peaches, Water Crackers, 

Tea. 



SUMMER BILLS OF FARE. 



i6i 



SUMMER BILLS OF FARE. 

Breakfast. 

Cantaloupes, 

Oat Flakes, Whipped Cream, 

Broiled Tomatoes, Cream Sauce, 

Fried Potatoes, 

Toast, 

Lunch. 

Deviled Crabs, 

Sliced Tomatoes, 
Strawberries and Cream, Iced Tea 



Coffee. 

Brown Bread, 



Dinner. 

Julienne Soup, 

Panned Spring Chicken, 

New Potatoes, 

Peas, 

Lettuce Salad, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Strawberry Ice Cream, 



Cream Sauce, 

Asparagus, 

French Dressing, 

Coffee. 



Lobster — Terrapin* Style, 

Fruit, 



Supper. 



Tea. 



Milk Biscuit, 



Cake, 



Breakfast. 

Iced Strawberries, 

Wlieat Granules, Sugar and Cream 

Fried Black Bass, 

Stewed Potatoes, 

Plain Muffins, Coffee. 

Lunch. 



Parsley Omelet, 



Creamed Sweetbreads, 



Stuffed Potatoes, 



Thin Bread and Butter, 
Sugared Raspberries, Lemonade. 



II 



1 62 BILLS OF FARE. 

Dinner. 

Sand Clams on the Half Shell, 

Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce, 

New Potatoes, Peas, 

Baked Tomatoes, 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Frozen Fruit, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Sheep's Tongues in Jelly, Water-cress, 

Thin Bread and Butter, 

Sugared Fruit, Iced Tea. 



Breakfast. 

Iced Currants, 

Boiled Rice, Sugar and Cream, 

Corn Oysters, Broiled Tomatoes, 

Pop-overs, Coffee. 

Lunch. 
Mayonnaise of Salmon on Lettuce Leaves, 

Brown Bread and Butter, 
Sugared Berries, 

Lemonade. 

Dinner. 

Cantaloupes, 

Breaded Cutlets, Tomato Sauce, 

Peas, String Beans, 

Buttered Beets, 

Mayonnaise of Cauliflower, 
Wafers, Cheese, 

Raspberry Water-ice, •* 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Clam Fritters, Sliced Tomatoes, 

Sugared Fruit, Sponge Fingers, 

Tea. 



AUTUMN BILLS OF FARE. 



163 



Broiled Chicken, 
Rice Muffins, 

Lobster Cutlets, 



Breakfast. 
Blackberry Mush, 

Potatoes k la Bechamel, 

Lunch. 

Sliced Tomatoes, 
Cantaloupes, 
Lemonade. 



Dinner. 

Cream of Tomato Soup, 
Broiled Steak, 
Stewed Cucumbers, 

Lettuce Salad, 

Wafers, 



Sliced Tomatoes, 
Coffee. 

Cream Sauce, 



Corn, 
Mashed Potatoes, 
French Dressing, 

Cheese, 



Frozen Strawberries, 
Coffee. 

Supper. 
Cold Boiled Ham, 

Parker House Rolls, 
Sugared Fruit, 



Tomato Salad, 
Tea. 



AUTUMN BILLS OF FARE. 

Breakfast. 

Cantaloupes, 

Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream, 

Broiled Birds, Toast, 

Sliced Tomatoes, 

Wheat Granule Gems, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Welsh Rarebit, Rice Croquettes, 

Sliced Cucumbers, 

Gingerbread, Cocoa. 



1 64 BILLS OF FARE. - 

Dinner. 

Puree of Carrots, 

Roast Duck, Olive Sauce, 

New Turnips, Browned, 

Boiled Rice, Corn Pudding, 

Mayonnaise of Tomatoes, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Peach Short Cake, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Stewed Oysters, Hot Bread, 

Cold Slaw, 

Sugared Fruit, Berwick Sponge Cake, 

Tea. 



Breakfast. 

Baked Apples, 

Moulded Farina, Whipped Cream, 

Fried Perch, Ham Omelet, 

Plain Boiled Potatoes, 
Johnny Cake, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Beef Croquettes, Peas, 

Sliced Tomatoes, 

Sugared Peaches, 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

MaiTow Ball Soup, 

Roasted Shoulder of Veal, Brown Sauce, 

Squash, Scalloped Potatoes, 

Browned Parsnips, 
Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Ice Cream, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 
Sardines on Toast, Slices of Lemon, 

Tomato Salad, 

Sugared Fruit, Marvels, 

Tea. 



WINTER BILLS OF FARE. 1 65 

Breakfast. 

Stewed Pears, 

Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream, 

Broiled Chops, Tomato Sauce, 

Saratoga Chips, 

Boston Brown Bread, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Sweetbread Cutlets, Cream Sauce, 

French Breakfast Rolls, 

Cucumber Salad, 

Cantaloupes. 

Dinner. 

Bisque of Oyster, 

Larded Fillet of Beef, Mushroom Sauce, 

Potato Croquettes, Baked Tomatoes, 

Sorrel Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Frozen Peaches, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Thin Slices of Cold Meat, Sauce Tartare, 

Potato Salad, 

Sugared Fruit, New England Loaf Cake, 

Tea. 



WINTER BILLS OF FARE. 



Breakfast. 

Oranges, 

Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream, 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, Parsley Sauce, 

Stewed Potatoes, Omelet, 

Fried Indian Mush, Syrup, 

Coffee. 

Lunch. 
Oyster Omelet, Peas, 

Thin Bread and Butter, 

Molasses Wedding Cake, Cocoa. 



1 66 BILLS OF FARE. 

Dinner. 

Puree of Celery, 

Roasted Rib of Beef, Yorkshire Pudding, 

Stewed Turnips, Buttered Beets, 

Baked Potatoes, 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Apple Tart, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 
Fried Oysters, Mayonnaise of Cabbage, 

Compote of Apples, Sponge Fingers, 

Coffee. 



Breakfast. 

Baked Pears, 

Wheat Granules, Sugar and Cream, 

Broiled Steak, Sauce Bearnaise, 

French Fried Potatoes, 

Rice Crumpets, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Creamed Fish, Potato Puff, 

Chicken Patties, 

Preserved Ginger, Wafers, 

Russian Tea. 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup with Croutons, 

Roasted Loin of Pork, Apple Sauce, 

Mashed Potatoes, Stewed Cabbage, 

Browned Turnips, 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Cerealine Blocks with Jelly, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Ham Croquettes, Tomato Sauce, 

Thin Bread and Butter, 

Stewed Fruit, Oatmeal Wafers, 

Tea. 



WINTER BILLS OF FARE. 1 67 

Breakfast. 

Stewed Apples, 

Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream, 

Broiled Sheeps' Kidneys, Bacon, 

Rice Omelet, 
Johnny Cake, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Beauregard Eggs, Chipped Beef, 

Parker House Rolls, 

Grapes, 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

* 

Calf s Head Soup, 

Roasted Turkey, Giblet Sauce, 

Stewed Cranberries, 

Oyster Plant Fritters, Baked Potatoes, 

Browned Sweet Potatoes, 

Mayonnaise of Celery, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Plain Plum Pudding, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Fried Chicken, Cream Gravy, 

Waffles, 

Canned Peaches, Lady Cake, 

Coffee. 



Breakfast. 

Grapes, 

Oatmeal, Whipped Cream, 

Broiled Ham, Shirred Eggs, 

Hashed Potatoes, 

Rice Muffins, Coffee. 

Lunch. 

Boudins, Cream Sauce, 

Stuffed Potatoes, 

Hot Gingerbread, Cocoa. 



1 68 BILLS OF FARE. 

Dinner. 

Dried Bean Soup without Meat, 

Baked Rock, Egg Sauce, 

Cucumber Pickles, 

Boiled Potatoes, Peas, 

Oyster Plant, Cream Sauce, 

Mayonnaise of Cabbage, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Orange Bavarian Cream, 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Raw Oysters, 

Chicken Salad, Milk Biscuit, 

Canned Fruits, Crackers, 

Coffee. 



WEDDING BREAKFASTS. 

Spring. 

Baked Bananas, 

Broiled Shad, Roe Sauce, 

Parisienne Potatoes, 

Breaded Lamb Chops, Tomato Sauce, 

French Rolls, 

Sweetbread Cutlets, Cream Sauce, 

French Peas, 

Fricassee of Chicken, Cerealine Blocks, 

Muffins, Coffee. 

Summer. 

Melons, 

Fried Brook Trout, Sauce Tartare, 

Stewed Potatoes, 

Broiled Spring Chickens, Cream Gravy, 

Peas, 

Woodcock, Baked Macaroni, 

Mayonnaise of Tomatoes, 

Fiozen Peaches, 

Coffee. 



LUNCH. 



169 



Autumn. 

Sugared Peaches, 

Fried Oysters, Sauce Tartare, 

Olives, Gherkins, Chow Chow, 

Broiled Tenderloin of Beef, Mushroom Sauce, 

Potato Croquettes, 

Reed Birds on Toast, Cranberry Jelly, 

Mayonnaise of Cucumbers and Tomatoes, 

French Rolls, Coffee. 

Winter. 

Bouillon , 

Broiled Sardines on Toast, garnished with Water-cress and Slices of 

Lemon, 

Baked Sweetbreads, Peas, 

French Rolls, 

Venison in Chafing-dish, Currant Jelly, 

Baked Macaroni, 

Waffles, Honey, 

Coffee. 



LUNCH. 

Spring. 

Raw Oysters on Half Shell, 
Bouillon in Cups, 
Cusk k la Creme, 

French Rolls, 
Sweetbread Patties, 
Small Chicken Croquettes, 

Water Biscuits, 

Cheese Ramakins, 

Orange Souffle, frozen. 

Fruit, 

Coffee. 



Potato Puff, 
Lettuce Salad, 



170 



BILLS OF FARE. 



Summer. 

Orange Sherbet in Punch Glasses, 

Frogs' Legs, French Peas, 

Olives, Gherkins, Salted Almonds, 

Broiled Spring Chickens, Sauce Tartare, 

Potatoes with Cream Sauce, 

Tomato Salad Garnished with Radishes and 

Nasturtium Blossoms, 

Toasted Cheese, 
Frozen Strawberries, 
Coffee. 



Autumn. 

Bouillon, 

Deviled Crabs, Olives, 

Baked Sweetbreads, Tomato Sauce, 
Parker House Rolls, 



Chicken Croquettes, 



Shrimp Salad, 

Cheese Fingers, 

Frozen Peaches, 

Coffee. 



Celery, 
French Peas, 



Winter. 

Raw Oysters on Half Shell, 

Bouillon, 

Gherkins, Olives, Salted Almonds, 

Lobster Cutlets, Cream Sauce, 

Milk Biscuits, 

Broiled Fillet of Beef, Mushroom Sauce, 

Peas, 

Shaddock Sherbet, 

Quail on Toast, Brown Sauce, 

Baked Macaroni, 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Neufchitel, 

Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream, 

Fruit, Bonbons, 

Coffee. 



VEGETARIAN MENUS. 



171 



AN OYSTER SUPPER. 

Raw Oysters on the Half Shell, 

Oyster Soup, 

Fried Oysters Garnished with Cress and Slices of Lemon, 

Cold Slaw, 

Chicken Salad, Water Crackers, 

Oyster Croquettes, Sauce Hollandaise, 

Peas, 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Toasted Cheese, 

Coffee. 



A SIMPLE CHRISTMAS DINNER. 

Cream of Celery Soup, 

Creamed Fish, Potato Puflf, 

Roasted Turkey, Bread Stuffing, 

Cranberry Sauce, 

Mashed Potatoes, Canned Peas, 

Stewed Turnips, 
Lettuce Salad, French Dressing, 

Water Crackers, Cheese, 

Plain Plum Pudding, Hard Sauce, 
Coffee. 



VEGETARIAN MENUS. 

SPRING. 

Breakfast. 
Shaddocks, 



Wheat Granules, 

Stewed Potatoes, 
Gems, 



Rice Croquettes, 
Wafers, 



Lunch. 
Cream of Potato Soup, 



Lettuce with French Dressing, 
Baked Apples. 



Sugar and Cream, 
Omelet, 
Coffee. 



Tomato Sauce, 
Cheese, 



172 



BILLS OF FARE. 



Dinner. 

Mock Bisque Soup, 

Salted Almonds, Celery, 

Cabbage, Cream Sauce, 

Sweet Potato Croquettes, 

Salad of String Beans, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Batter Pudding with Canned Blackberries, Hard Sauce, 

Coffee. 



SUMMER. 
Breakfast. 

Strawberries, 
Molded Farina, Sugar and Cream, 



Broiled Tomatoes, 
Muffins. 



Fried Egg Plant, 



Wafers, 



Macaroni Croquettes, 

Wafers, 



Com Fritters, 
Fruit, 



Lunch. 

Brown Bread and Butter, 
Mayonnaise of Cauliflower, 

Iced Tea. 

Dinner. 
Asparagus Soup, 

Stuffed Potatoes, 
Macedoine Salad, 

Frozen Strawberries, 
Coffee. 

Supper 

Sliced Tomatoes, 



Cream Sauce, 
Coffee. 



Sliced Tomatoes, 
Cheese, 



Tomato Sauce, 
Cheese, 



Brown Bread, 
Wafers. 



VEGETARIAN MENUS. 



173 



AUTUMN. 

Breakfast. 

Melons, 
Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream, 



Fried Squash, 

Gluten Gems, 

StufFed Egg. Plant, 



Water- cress, 
Lunch. 



Tomato Catsup, 
Coffee. 
Raw Tomatoes, 



Salad of Lettuce, Peppers, 
Fruit. 

Dinner. 
Cream of Corn Soup, 



Lima Beans, 



Stuffed Baked Tomatoes, 

Boiled Rice, 

Cauliflower with Cream Sauce, 

String Beans, French Dressing, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Peach Pudding, Hard Sauce, 

Coffee. 



Supper. 



Scalloped Potatoes, 



Milk Biscuit, 



Salad of Cucumbers and Tomatoes, 

Compote of Pears, Wafers, 

Tea. 



Baked Apples, 

Omelet, 



Macaroni Croquettes, 

Gingerbread, 



WINTER. 

Breakfast. 

Muffins, Coffee. 
Lunch. 
Endive Salad, 



Grits, Sugar and Cream, 
Baked Potatoes, 



Tomato Sauce, 



Cocoa. 



174 BILLS OF FARE. 

Dinner. 

Salsify Soup, 

Boiled Cabbage, Caper Sauce, 

Parsnip Fritters, Stuffed Potatoes, 

Stewed Canned Tomatoes, 

Mayonnaise of Celery, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Apple Pie, 

Coffee. 



A SIMPLE THANKSGIVING DINNER. 

Tomato Soup, 

Boiled Haddock, Drawn Butter, 

French Fried Potatoes, 

Roasted Chicken, Giblet Sauce, 

Cranberries, 

Boiled Rice, Peas, 

Mayonnaise of Celeiy, 

Wafers, Cheese, 

Mince Pie, Pumpkin Custard, 

Coffee. 



A GENTLEMEN'S FISH SUPPER. 

Raw Oysters in a Block of Ice, 

Fried Black Bass, Parsley Sauce, 

Stewed Potatoes, 

Lobster Cutlets, Cream Sauce, 

Tea Biscuits, 

Mayonnaise of Salmon, 

Welsh Rarebit, 

Coffee. 



EMERGENCY DINNER OF CANNED GOODS. 



175 



CHRISTMAS DINNER. 

Cherrystone Oysters on Half Shell, 

Clear Soup with Croutons, 
Fried Smelts, Sauce Piquant, 

French Fried Potatoes, 
Roasted Wild Turkey, Oyster Sauce, 
Cranberry Sauce, 



Boiled Rice, 



Water Biscuits, 



Nuts, 



Peas, 

Orange Sherbet, 

Roasted Goose, Apple Sauce, 

Sweet Potato Croquettes, 

Mayonnaise of Celery, 

Plum Pudding, Hard Sauce, 
Fruits, 
Coffee. 



Cauliflower, 



Edam, 
Raisins, 



AN EMERGENCY DINNER OF CANNED GOODS. 

Cream of Tomato Soup, 
Boiled Salt of Mackerel, Parsley Sauce, 

Lyonnaise Potatoes, 
Timbale of Macaroni, Cream Sauce, 

String Beans. 

French Omelet with Peas, 
Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 
Wafers, Cheese, 

Canned Fruit, 
Coffee. 



INDEX. 



A MERICAN salad dressing, 124 
'^ Anchovy salad, 130 
Apple jelly, 146, 147 
Apples, to can, 140 

spiced, 152 
Artichoke soup, 109 
Artichokes, baked, 13 

French, 12 

fried, 13 

h ritalienne, 14 

as a basis for jardiniere, 13 

stuffed, 14 

Jerusalem, 14 

(k la lyonnaise), 15 
pickled, 16 
(k la vinaigrette), 15 
Asparagus, 142 

in ambush, 17 

boiled, 16 

canned, 142 

escalloped, 18 

k la HoUandaise, 18 

peas, 19 ^ 

salad, 130 

stewed, 17 

soup, no 
Autumn bills of fare, 163, 164, 165 



BAKED beans, 20 
Balls, chicken forcemeat, 109 
pop-corn, 156 
Barley soup, in 
Bean croquettes, 22 

polenta, 22 
Beans, 143 
baked, 20 
butter, 24 
case-knife, 24 
French, 24 
kidney, with brown sauce, 21 

i. la maitre d'hotel, 20 
Lima, 23 

i la poulette, 23 
dried, 23 
and corn, 46 
red, 22 
string, 19 

with cream, 19 
white, sautes, 21 
Beet salad, 131 
Beets, boiled, 24 



Beets with cream sauce, 24 

pickled, 25 

silver, 25 
Bills of fare, 157 

for autumn, 163, 164, 165 

for spring, 158, 159, 160 

for summer, 161, 162, 163 

for winter, 165 
Bisque of turnip, 120 
Black bean soup, 118 
Blackberry jelly, 148 
Blackberries, to can, 140 
Borecole, 26 
Boulettes of potato. Bo 
Brandied peaches, 149 
Bread, sweet potato, 89 
Breakfasts, wedding, 168 
Broccoli, 25 
Broiled mushrooms, 60 

tomatoes, loi 
Browned sweet potatoes, 89 

turnips, loS 
Brussels sprouts, 25 

sprouts sautes, 26 
Butter beans, 24 

tomato, 103 



CABBAGE, boiled, 27 
Charleston, 29 

fried, 30 

lettuce, with gravy, 59 

pickled, 31 

salad, 132 

scalloped, 29 

stewed, 28 

stuffed, 28 

with corned beef, 27 

with Parmesan, 29 

red, i la flamande, 30 
pickled, 31 

German style, 30 
Cakes, corn, griddle, 42 
Canned fruits, 140 

apples, 140 

blackberries, 140 

cherries, 141 

peaches, 141 

pears, 141 

plums, 141 

quinces, 142 

quince and apple, 140 



177 



178 



INDEX. 



Canned vegetables, 138 

asparagus, 142 

Lima beans, 143 

string beans, 143 

citron, 144 

corn, 143 

and tomatoes, 144 

gumbo and tomatoes, 144 

mushrooms, to stew, 61 

peas, 144 

tomatoes, 144 

peas, how to cook, 73 
Canning, 138 
Capsicums, to pickle, 75 
Cardinal salad, 134 
Carrot marmalade, 34 
Carrots, pickled, 33 

stewed, 33, 34 
Case-knife beans, 24 
Casserole, potato, 87 
Catsup, cucumber, 53 

tomato No. i, 105 
No. 2, 105 

cold tomato, 106 

English tomato, 106 
Cauliflower, baked, 36 

with cream sauce, 34 

au gratin, 36 

pickled, 36 

stewed, 35 

salad, 131 
Celeriac, 38 
Celery, i la Fran^aise, 37 

fried, 37 

au jus, 39 

stewed, 38 

with tomato sauce, 37 

in stuffed tomatoes, 102 

salad, 132 

soup, 112 

vinegar, 152 

turnip-rooted, 38 
Chard, Swiss, 25 
Cherries, to can, 141 

spiced, 152 
Chicory with cream, 39 
Chicken forcemeat balls, 109 

salad, 128 
Chili vinegar, 152 
Chips, Saratoga, 84 
Chowder, com, 48 

potato, 86 
Christmas dinner, 175 

dinner, a simple, 171 
Citron, 144 
Cock-a-leekie, 121 
Cold slaw, 32 
Combinations of foods, io 
Corn, 143 

boiled on cob, 39 

boiled in husk, 40 

chowder, 48 

cold, 42 

fricasseed with okra, 65 

fritters, 40 

oysters, 46 



Corn, pickled, small ears, 44 

pudding, 47 .^ 
southern, 46 

salted, 45 

scalloped, 41 

soup, 112 

stewed, 42 

with Lima beans, 46 
with tomatoes, 41 

in tins, 45 

warmed over, 42 

and tomatoes, 144 

gems, 42 

griddle cakes, 42 

how to dry, 43 

dry — how to cook, 45 

to hull, 43 

to pop, 156 
Corn-salad, 44, 135 
Corned beef, with cabbage, 27 
Crab apple jelly, 148 
Crab salad, 129 
Cream salad dressing, 125 

vegetable soups, 109 
Croquettes, bean, 22 

potato, 79 

sweet potato, 89 
Croutons, iii 
Cucumber catsup, 53 

mangoes, 54 

pickles, oiled, 52 

salad, 132 
Cucumbers, with cream sauce, 49 

fried, 50 

in butter, 50 « 

pickled, 52 

salted for pickling, 50, 51 

stewed, 48 

stuffed, 49 

sweet, pickled, 53 
Currant jelly, 149 
Curried tomatoes, loi 
Custard, white potato, 87 



DAMSON jelly, 149 
Dandelion salad, 135 
Dandelions, German style, 55 

wilted, 54 
Delmonico potatoes, 82 
Dinner, Christmas, 175 

a simple Christmas, 171 
Thanksgiving, 174 

an emergency, of canned goods, 175 
Dock, narrow, 55 

sour, 55 
Dredged tomatoes, 100 
Dressing, French, 124 

American salad, 124 

cream salad, 125 

mayonnaise, 127 

Mrs. Rorer's salad, 126 

potato salad, 126 

salad, without oil, 125 
Dried bean soup, 117 

corn, to cook, 44 



INDEX. 



179 



f. 
Dried mushroom||i62 
Dry pumpkins fflr pies, 90 
Dutch lettuce, 60 



EGG-PLANT, baked, 56 
in batter, 56 

dressed, 56 

farcied, 57 

fried, 55 
Egg salad, 133 
Egyptian salad, 137 
Emergency dinner, of canned goods. 
Endive, 55 

salad, 135 
English pea porridge, 116 

tomato catsup, 106 



FARE, bills of, 157 
Figs, tomato, 102 
Fish supper, a gentlemen's, 174 
Flavored vinegars, 152 
Foods, combinations of, 10 
Forcemeat balls, chicken, 109 
French artichoke salad, 131 

artichokes, 12 

beans, 24 

dressing, 124 
Fritters, corn, 40 

parsnip, 70 

salsify, 96 
Fruit jellies, 146 
Fruits, to can, 140 

to serve, 154, 155 



GEMS, corn, 42 
German salad, 133 
Glazed onions, 68 
Grape jelly, 149 
Green tomato pickles, 107 
Griddle cakes, corn, 42 
Gumbo, 63 

and tomatoes, 144 



HERBS, to dry, 154 
Honey, tomato, 107 
Horse-radish vinegar, 152 
Hotch-potch, 121 



ICED tomatoes, 102 
Italian salad, 133 



JAM, rhubarb, 145 
Jelly, apple, 146, 147 
crab apple, 148 
blackberry, 148 
currant, 149 
damson, 149 
grape, 149 
peach, 149 
rhubarb, 149 



175 



Jellies, fruit, 146 
Jerusalem, artichokes, 14 

k la lyonnaise, 15 

pickled, 16 

k la vinaigrette, 15 
Julienne soup, 119 



KALE, 26 
with pork, 27 
Kale turnip, 32 
Kidney beans, with brown sauce, 21 

k la maitre d'hotel, 20 
Kohl-rabi, 32 



T EEKS, 57 
*-' stewed, 57 
Lentil rolls, 58 
soup, 119 
Lentils, 57 

with rice, 58 
Lettuce, 59 

cabbage, with gravy, 59 
Dutch, 60 
salad, 135 
Lima bean soup, iii 
beans, 23, 143 

a la poulette, 23 
and corn, 46 
dried, 23 
to pickle, 150 
Lobster salad, 130 
Lunch, 169, 170 

[\/l ANGOES, cucumber, 54 
^'1 pepper, 73 

tomato, 104 
Marmalade, carrot, 34 

yellow tomato, 104 
Martynias, 63 
Mayonnaise dressing, 127 

tomato salad, 136 
Meat, salt, with pumpkin, 92 
Menus, vegetarian, 171, 172, 173 

autumn, 173 

spring, 171 

summer, 172 

winter, 173 
Mushrooms, 6i 

baked, 60 

broiled, 60 

dried, 62 

stewed. No. i, 62 
No. 2, 63 

canned, to stew, 61 



N 



ASTURTIUM blossom, 135 



pvKRA, 63 

^-^ boiled, 64 
stewed, 65 



i8o 



INDEX. 



Okra, fricasseed with corn, 65 
with Vice, 64 
with tomatoes, 64 
Omelet with peas, 72 
Onion salad, 137 

soubise, 68 

soup, 120 

vinegar, 69, 153 
Onions baked, 66 

boiled, 65 

fried, 66 

glazed, 68 

pickled, 69 

scalloped, 67 

stewed, 67 

stuffed, 67 

Spanish, 66 
Oyster plant, boiled, 96 

soup, 114 

supper, 171 
Oysters, corn, 46 



PARSNIP fritters, 70 
Parsnips, baked, 70 

boiled, with cream sauce, 69 
fried, 70 
Parsley, pickled, 33 
Pea soup, 112 

from canned peas, 113 
Peas asparagus, 19 
Peas, 144 

green, 71 

with cream sauce, 73 

with omelet, 72 

how to can, 72 
Peach jelly, 149 
Peaches, brandied, 149 

to can, 141 

spiced, 152 
Pears, to can, 141 

spiced, 152 
Pepper grass, 135 
Pepper mangoes, 73 

sauce, 74 
Peppers, pickled, 74 

stuffed, 75 
Pickled artichokes, Jerusalem, 16 

beets, 25 

cabbage, 31 
red, 31 

carrots, 33 

parsley, 33 

peppers, 74 

onions, 69 

radish pods, 94 

tomatoes, 102 
Pickles, cauliflower, 36 

corn, small ears, 44 

cucumbers, oiled, 52 
small, 52 
sweet, 53 
salted for, 50,51 

green tomatoes, 107 
Pie, white potato, 88 



Pie, sweet potato, 90 

pumpkin, 91 

rhubarb, 94 
Plums, to can, 141 

spiced, 152 
Pods, sugar pea, 73 
Poke stalks, 76 
Polenta bean, 22 
Pop-corn balls, 156 
Pork, with kale, ?7 
Porridge, English pea, 116 
Potato, boulettes of, 80 

casserole, 87 

chowder, 86 

croquettes, 79 

custard, white, 87 

pie, white, 83 

puflf, 80 

salad, 136 

dressing, 126 

sautes 83 

souffle, 86 

soup, 1x3 
Potatoes, 76 

baked, 85 

with meat, 86 

boiled, 77 

Delmonico, 82 

ii la duchesse, 84 

French, fried, 82 

hashed, browned, 8r 

browned, in the oven, 82 
with cream 82 

i la HoUandaise, 84 

lyonnaise, 83 

d la maitre d'hotel, 87 

mashed, 79 

panned, 82 

ragout of, 84 

scalloped, 78 

steamed, 78 

stewed, 80 

stuffed, 85 

with cream sauce, 81 

with turnips, 108 

sweet, 88 

baked, 88 
browned, 89 
croquettes, 89 
roasted, 88 

mashed, southern style, 89 
Pot au feu, 122 
Powder, soup, 153 
Proper vegetables to serve with meats, 

11,12 
Pudding, corn, 47 

southern corn, 46 
Pumpkin, baked, 92 

chips, preserved, 146 

pie, 91 

preserved, 90 

in pieces, 91 

with salt meat, 92 
Pumpkins, dried tor pies, 90 
Puree of sorrel, 97 

of vegetable soup, 115 



INDEX. 



i8i 



QUINCES, to can, 142 
spiced, 152 



RADISH PODS, pickled, 94 
Radishes, 93 

winter, with cream sauce, 93 
Ragout of potatoes, 84 
Rhubarb jam, 145 

jelly, 149 

pie, 94 

stewed, 94 

vinegar, 95 

wine, 95 
Rice with lentils, 58 

with okra, 64 

soup, 114 

as a vegetable, 95 
Rolls, lentils, 58 
Ruta baga, 109 



SALAD, anchovy, 130 
artichoke, French, 131 
asparagus, 130 
beet, 131 
cabbage, 132 
cardinal, 134 
cauliflower, 131 
celery, 132 
chicken, 128. 
crab, 129 
cucumber, 132 

of cucumber and tomato, 132 
dandelion, 135 

egg, 133 

Egyptian, 137 

endive, 135 

German, 133 

Italian, 133 

lettuce, 135 

lobster, 130 

Macedoine, 13s 

onion, 137 

sour orange, 147 

potato, 136 

salmon, 130 

sardine, 130 

shad roe, 130 

shrimp, 130 

of string beans, 131 

sorrel, 135 

summer, 135 

Swedish, 134 

sweet-bread, 129 

tomato and celery, 137 

veal, 129 
Salad dressing, American, 124 
cream, 125 
French, 124 
mayonnaise, 127 
without oil, 125 
potato. 126 
Mrs. Rorer's, 126 
Salads, 122 

their preparation, 123 



Salsify, boiled, 96 

fried, 96 

fritters, 96 
Sauce, pepper, 74 

soubise, 68 
Sauerkraut, 32 
Season for pickling, 150, 151 
Silver beet, 25 
Sorrel, puree of, 97 
Soubise onion, 68 
Souffle potato, 86 
Sour dock, 55 
Southern corn pudding, 46 
Soup, artichoke, 109 

asparagus, no 

barley, in 

black bean, 118 

dried bean, 117 

Lima bean, in 

mock bisque, 115 

celery, 112 

corn, 112 

Crecy, it6 

Julienne, 119 

lentil, 119 

i la mousquetaire, 12a 

onion, 120 

oyster plant, 114 

of Palestine, no 

pea, 112 

from canned peas, 113 

potato, 113 

rice, 114 

salsify, 114 

clear vegetable, 118 

puree of vegetable, 115 

vegetable without meat, 117 
Soup powder, 153 
Soups, cream vegetables, 109 
Spanish onions, 66 
Spiced apples, 152 

cantaloupe, 151 

cherries, 152 

peaches, 152 

peas, 152 

plums, 152 

quinces, 152 

water-melon, 152 
Spinach, 96 

with cream, 97 

for garnishing, 97 
Sprouts, Brussels, 25 

boiled, plain, 26 

sautes, 26 
Sprouts, turnip. 109 
Squash, fried, gS 

summer, 98 

with melted butter, 98 
Stalks, poke, 76 
String beans, 19 

with cream, 19 

to pickle, 150 
Stuffed peppers, 75 
Succotash, 47 
Sugar pea pods, 73 
Supper, a gentlemen's fish, 174 



lS2 



INDEX. 



Sweet potato bread, 89 
croquettes, 89 
pie, 90 
Sweet potatoes, 88 
baked, 88 
browned, 89 

mashed. Southern style, 09 
roasted, 88 
Swiss chard, 25 

THANKSGIVING dinner, a simple, 

J: 174 

Tomato butter, 103 
catsup No. I, 105 

No. 2, 105 

cold, 106 

English, 106 
farci, 100 
figs, 102 
honey, 107 
mangoes, 104 
marmalade, yellow, 104 
pickles, green, 107 
preserves, ripe, 103 
Tomato and celery salad, 137 
Tomatoes, 144 
baked, 99 
broiled, loi 
curried, loi 
dredged, 100 
fried, 100 
iced, 102 
pickled, 102 
preserved, green, 104 
on half shell, loi 
stewed, 98 
stuffed, 99 

with celery, 102 
and corn, 144 



Tomatoes and gumbo, 144 

with okra, 64 

with stewed corn, 41 
Turnip, kale, 32 

sprouts, 109 

tops, 109, 135 
Turnips, bisque of, 120 

browned, 108 

mashed, 108 

with potatoes, 108 

with cream sauce, 108 



WEAL salad, 129 
' Vegetable soup, clear, 118 
soups, with meat, 117 
without meat, 117 
Vegetables, how to cook, 9 
how to serve, 11 
canned, 139 
Vinegar, celery, 152 
Chili, 152 
horse-radish, 152 
onion, 69, 153 
rhubarb, 95 
. Tarragon, 153 



\17ATER-CRE5S,i35 
^^ Water-melon rind, 145 

spiced, 152 
Wedding breakfasts, 168 
Wilted dandelions, 54 
Wine, rhubarb, 95 
Winter bills of fare, 165 

radishes with cream sauce, 93 



VELLOW tomato marmalade, 104 



MRS. S. T. RORER, 

Who has written the book " How to Cook Vegetables," 

IS EDITOR OF 

^^TABLE TALK.— 



THE ONLY TABLE MAGAZINE IN AMERICA. 



I 



T IS a monthly magazine of 64 pages, contributed to by 
the most helpful and practical writers in the country. It 
is designed to be the housekeeper's practical friend and assist- 
ant — to go with her through all the varied duties of house- 
keeping, lightening her labor and offering new and delightful 
suggestions, thereby relieving housekeeping of much of its 
drudgery and bringing more sunshine into the domestic circle. 



TABLE TALK contains in each issue complete menus for each meal 
of the entire month, so arranged that what is left over from one 
meal may be utilized in a palatable dish for the following day. 

TABLE TALK contains a "Housekeepers' Inquiry Department," 
which is personally edited by Mrs. Rorer. Every subscriber has 
the privilege of securing through this department any desired in- 
formation about housekeeping, and to receive the benefit of Mrs. 
Rorer's practical experience and knowledge without charge. 

TABLE TALK contains all the latest information about new dishe?, 
new table decoiations, new " fads" in luncheon and tea toilets and 
customs, and new everything pertaining to the table. 

-^••SUBSCRIBE FOR IT.i-^ 



$1.00 Per Year. 3 Months, 25 Cents. Single Copy, 10 Cents. 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE TABLE TALK PUBLISHING CO., 

1617 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



There's no secret 

About the success of Mrs. Rorer's Cook Book. 
It is a book of facts — tried facts — cooked facts. 
Did any one ever know a Rorer recipe to fail ? 

It is somethlnof to be a sure-enougrh cook. 
Mrs. Rorer has her school and her book. If 
you are not within teaching distance, her book 
will be your school. It teaches, helps, and 
economizes time and materials. 

In washable oil-cloth binding. Of any book- 
seller, or mailed for $1.75. 

Arnold and Company, Publishers, 
420 Library Street, Philadelphia. 



Also by same author: 

CANNING AND PRESERVING. 
HOME CANDY MAKING. 
HOT WEATHER DISHES. 
Each, Paper Covers, 40 cents ; Cloth, 75 cents. 




All Live Seeds 



By subscribing for Demorest's you really 
get a dozen magazines in one, and secure 
amusement and instruction for the whole 
family. It contains Stories, Poems, and 
other Literary attractions, including Artis- 
tic, Scientific, and Household matters, and is 
illustrated with original Steel Engravings, 
Photogravures, Oil Pictures, and fine Wood- 
cuts, making it the Model Magazine of 
America. Yearly subscriptions $2.00. Single 
copies 20 cents. 

W. JENNINGS DEMOREST, Publisher, 
15 East 14th Street, N. Y. 



B 



Will grow if properly cared for, 
but some are better than others, 
just as strong, healthy children 
are more likely to develop into 
active and useful men and women 
than weak, puny ones. 

URPEE'S SEEDS 

Are not only alive, but full of 
vitality ; — pure and true to name. 
They are tested before being sent 
out, and if any are found to lack 
vitality they are destroyed. 

Burpee's Farm Annual 

Tells all about them, and is full 
of hints to those who know, and 
valuable information for those 
who want to know, about Farm, 
Garden and Flower SEEDS, 
PLANTS, BULBS, etc. All the 
best NOVELTIES in Flower 
and Vegetable Seeds, and ALL 
ALIVE. It will be mailed Free, 
on application, to all intending 
purchasers. 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., 

PHILADELPHIA. 



THE STANDARD MACHINES OF AMERICA. 



The Pineland 
Incubators and Brooders, 

Universally endorsed by hundreds of practical poultrymen as 
the most satisfactory machines in the market. 



Awarded the Highest Honors at leading Shows. 

A complete and valuable Catalogue of 

EVERYTHING FOR THE POULTRY YARD 

will be mailed on receipt of 5 cents. Address 

PINELAND INCUBATOR AND BROODER CO., 

JAMESBURGH, MIDDLESEX CO., NEW JERSEY, U.S.A. 



N. B.— Messrs. W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO. are Sole Agents in Philadel- 
phia, Pa., for our famous New Model Pineland Incubator and Pineland Brooders. 



HIRES 




THE most delicious and appetizing temperance drink in the 
world. Made direct from the fresh roots, barks, berries 
and flowers. Health giving and strengthening. Take only the 
o-enuine. 



THE CHARLES E. HIRES CO., 

119 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 



B 



URPEE'S SEEDS 

Are POPULAR wherever Planted, 

As is proved by our extensive mail trade — the largest of the 
kind in the United States. It is generally admitted that we annually 
supply Seeds direct to more planters than any other Seed House 
in America. Some idea of the extent of our business may be formed from 
the fact that, in the busy season, we receive every day 3000 to 5000 letters 
and postal cards. The first editions printed of our Catalogues for 1891, 
necessary to mail one copy to each of our customers and applicants, number 
nearly half a million. The forms are electrotyped, and future editions are 
printed as required, — making in all the largest number of Catalogues pub- 
lished by any Seed House in the world. With the perfect system neces- 
sary to handle so extensive a business, we can serve our trade 
customers more accurately and more promptly than can 
Seedsmen doing a smaller mail trade, where it is impossible 
to maintain a similar business, so completely organized. Deal- 
ing direct with the planters, we also know their require- 
ments, and are enabled to supply the BEST SEEDS at as 
low prices as they can be produced and honestly handled. mark. 




BURPEE'S Farm Annual 



For 1891- 



Is a handsome book of over 150 pages, of great value to every one who 
cultivates a garden. Superbly illustrated with colored plates painted from 
nature, it tells all about the Best Garden, Farm and Flower 
SEEDS, PliANTS, SHRUBS, lollies. Gladioli, and other 
Summer-Flowering BUI^BS. «®=-It describes RARE NOVEl.- 
TIES of real merit, some of which can only be had direct from us. It 
will be mailed FREE to all who intend to purchase (provided our prices 
and varieties prove satisfactory). As it is too expensive a book for 
indiscriminate distribution, we must request that applicants desiring it 
merely for reading, will please enclose ten cents, which is less than actual 
cash cost per copy to us. 

<^ Orders and letters, wherever mailed, reach us safely if addressed 
simply _^ 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., Philadelphia, Pa. 
THOROUGHBRED STOCK AND FANCY POULTRY. 

In addition to the contents outlined above, cur Farm Annual for 1891 
also briefly describes, with illustrations, the leading breeds of Tliorougli- 
bred Sbeep, Pigs, Fancy Poultry and Scotch Collie Dogs, 

which we are breeding quite extensively and of which we generally have 
choice stock for sale. YV_ ATLEE BURPEE & CO. 



LEWIS' 98 oS. LYE. f™!*"'!'*"*' 



(patented.) - 




The strongest and purest Lye made. Will 
make lo lbs. of the best Perfumed Hard Soap 
in 20 minutes without boiling. It is the 
best for disinfecting sinks, closets, drains, 
etc. Photographers' and machinists' uses. 
Foundrymen, bolt and nut makers. For 
engineers as a boiler cleaner, and anti- 
incrustator. For brewers and bottlers, for 
washing barrels, bottles, etc. For painters, 
to remove old paints. For washing trees, 
etc., etc. 



PENNA. SALT MFG. CO., Gen'l Agents, PHILAD'A, PA. 



THE QUICKEST, 
EASIEST AND CHEAPEST 

WAY TO PROCURE THE 

PUREST AND BEST 
ICE CREAM 

Is to make it yourself, in one of 



Shenara's CeleMefl "LiihlBiiiE" Ice Cream Freezers. 

Quadruple Motion. Hinge Top. Famous Wlieel Dasiier. Covered Gearing. 

Leading merchants everywhere sell the " Lightning " as their best Freezer, 

Write to the manufacturers, mentioning this book, for a "Queen City" 

Receipt Book, the celebrated collection of prize receipts for desserts, ice 

creams, fruit ices, sherbets, jellies, puddings, etc. Mailed free for the asking. 

SHEPARD HARDWARE CO., Mammoth Foundry, 






1 ^ 


>. 




1— 1 


13 


^ 


c 


+J 


o 


c 


•^H 


o 




^ 


z 


• r-t 


< 






CO 





■ 


1 




rA >i 




GO 


•" § 




W 


^ a 




)o— ^ 






h-1 


2 '^ 
5^ o 
^ o 




^ 


13 rt 

O 




PM 


o c 


> 


- Cc: 




d c 


a ri H g 3 


< 

o 

s ^ 


2 g 


> 

< 


O 

Ph 4-> 


Q 
Z 


GO 


Q 




< 


Pi 






CO 

< 


W 

^ 


o 


(1/ 


^< 


Pi 


!l! 






^ CO « i2:5 




(-^ eS a " 


O 

S ( 


_ ■■■■■ h— ' rt '^ 3 


m 1 


C5 > 


1 ^ § 


( 


o 


r9 C ^ 




■N 


>-. O ^-t 


1 


O) 


c/3 1=1 yj 

c/} u a. 




lO 






C^3 






= ^ 
t; H 



HOW AND WHAT TO GROW 



IN A 



KITCHEN GA RDEN O F ONE AGRE. 

FULLY ILLUSTRATED. 
Price 50 Cents in Paper ; 75 Cents in Cloth. 



This new book of nearly 200 pages will prove very valuable to all en- 
gaged in gardening ; it gives sound, common-sense views and practical 
teachings — so plain that the most inexperienced need not fail — so com- 
plete that experienced gardeners 
can read it with pleasure and 
profit. It is fully illustrated, and 
enters so thoroughly into details 
that it will undoubtedly be warm- 
ly welcomed by the thousands 
who inquire, every year, What 
is the best book on Garden- 
ing ? Among other subjects its 
contents embrace: — 




Selection of Location — Preparing the 
Soil — Laying out the Garden to in- 
clude the various Vegetables and 
Fruits, and securing to each the 
Most Suitable Location — Planting 
and Care of Small Fruits — The Best 
Varieties of Small Fruits, and Har- 
vesting Same — Directions for Mak- 
ing and Care of Hot-Beds — Raising 
Vegetable Plants — Transplanting — 
Sowing Seeds — Practical Directions 
for the Special Cultivation of all Vegetables — Notes on the Merits of the Different 
Varieties of Vegetables — Manures — Description, Proper Uses and Care of Garden 
Implements — How to Grow Second Crops to best economize the Land and Manure 
— The Winter Storage of Vegetables — The Use and Management of Cold Frames 
in Winter — Winter Care and Pruning of Small Fruits — Culture of Succulent Roots 
and Bulbs — Herbs, their Uses and Manner of Growing. 

g®"" The paper-cover edition can be had FREE, as a premium, on a 
seed order of ^5.00 ; or bound hi cloth, on a seed order amounting to $7.50. 

Sent by mail, postpaid, upon receipt of price by the Publishers, 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



iXilg V>ill jJCL results, will use Per- 



Weavers 



fection Fast Dyes for 
cotton. We offer the fol- 
lowing shades, and guar- 
— — ^^-^— — — antee Fast Colors: — 

Turkey Red, Orange, Cardinal, Yellow, Slate, Blue, 
Green, Wine, Mahogany, Red, Brown, Seal Brown, 
Medium Brown, Pink, Rose, Light Brown, Scarlet and 
Drab. Perfection Ink Extracts, Wood Stains, Best Bluing, 
Refined Borax, Easter Egg Dyes, Indelible Ink, and Con- 
fection Pink for Tinting Ice Cream and Frosting for Cakes. 
Agents can sell something from this list at every 
house. Samples of any of our goods by mail, lo cents; 
I dozen, by mail, 80 cents; 3 dozen, ^2.25 ; i gross, ex- 
press prepaid, ^8.00. 

W. GUSHING & CO., Foxcroft, Maine. 

Vick*s Floral Guide. 



A book of 100 pages 8)^ x 10^ inches, — colored plates, frontispiece, 
elegant lithographed covers, hundreds of illustrations ; full descriptions, 
with names and prices, of thousands of varieties of Flower and Vegetable 
Seeds, Plants, Small Fmits, Bulbs, Potatoes, Grains, and everything re- 
quired in the garden ; hints on planting and care of seeds and plants. 

No person who really wants to succeed should hesitate for a moment, 
but send ten cents at once for a copy. This amount may be deducted 
from the first order sent in, and in this way making ViCK's FloraL 
Guide Free ! 

Thousands of people last year, through carelessness or procrastination, 
neglected this advice, and not knowing what to do at planting time, ran 
to the grocery, taking anything that happened to be left over, and in con- 
sequence regretted for months this want of thought, as they saw not only 
the seeds but all the labor and expense of their garden thrown away. 
Make no mistake this year, but send for Vick's Floral Guide. 

JAMES VICK, Seedsman, 

ROCHESTER, N. Y. 



OUR KEW GUIDE, 

A complete book of 124 pages, hand- 
somely illustrated; tells about Roses — 
especially Roses; popular Flowering 
Plants ; Bulbs and Seeds ; Exclusive 
novelties offered only by us and all the 
best standard sorts, at correct prices, — 
Books, Fertilizers, Insecticides, etc., to 
aid Home Planters. Orders sent by 
mail postpaid, safe arrival guaranteed to 
all post-offices. Our New Guide is sent 
free to all interested. 

SUCCESS WITH FLOWERS, 

The planter's Success is our Success; our 
prosperity depends on customers coming 
back for more ; therefore to help with 
Flowers, Fruits and Vegetables, we pub- 
lish a Monthly Magazine with illustra- 
tions. The cost is low, 25 cents a year ; 
a club of 5 for ^i. It is a great success, 
and helps us all to help each other. The 
name, SUCCESS WITH FLOWERS 
— its plan very interesting. You are 
welcome to a sample copy whether you 
subcribe or not. 



The Dingee & Conard Co., West Grove, Pa. 



THE 



isyltePY Yapd. 



HOW TO FURNISH AND MANAGE IT. 



By W. ATLEE BURPEE. 



Full descriptions and large illustrations given of the leading 
varieties of Land and Water Fowls. It also contains chapters 
on Poultry Houses, Selection and Mating of Stock, 
What and How to Feed, General Management, Dress- 
ing AND Shipping Poultry, Eggs and Chickens, Direc- 
tions FOR CAPONIZING, DISEASES, HoW TO RAISE GoOD 

Turkeys, etc., etc. Fully Illustrated. 

The New Edition for 1888 contains, besides the above, 
an illustrated chapter on the training and care of Scotch 
Colly or Shepherd Dogs, also new improved plans of Poultry- 
Houses, with illustration. 

Price, 50 Cts. in paper ; 75 Cts. bound in cloth. Sent, post- 
paid, by mail', upon receipt of price by the Publishers, 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO.. 
PHILADELPHIA, PA., 

and at 133 Cannon St,, London, E, C, England, 

ft 



jg^^BuRPEE's Illustrated Catalogue of Thoroughbred 
Live Stock and Fancy Poultry sent free, on application, to 
all interested. 



TUn HOUSMKnnmR'S DELIGHT! 

THE GRKAT- 

Labor-Saving Washer and Bleacher. 



en 




D 




O 


u 


J 


kJ 


W 


a. 


> 


S 


Pi 
< 


03 


S 






o 
o 




CO 


z 


^ 


o 


w 


2 


Z 


>-H 


w 


o 


> 


> 


U 


r 


r 




M 



Hundreds in use, and once used they are always used. This great inven- 
tion is fully protected by letters patent and the Supreme Court of the United 
States. It is a perfect Washing Machine as well as boiler. Clothes require 
no rubbing, consequently there is no wear, and white linen is bleached beauti- 
fully. No housewife can be without this wonderful Washer and Bleacher. 

Price $3.50 for No. 7, 8 or 9, heavy tin, copper bottom Washer and 
Bleacher. Circulars with testimonials free. Address 

The Washer and Bleacher Manufacturing Company, 

JAMESBURG, NEW JERSEY, U. S. A. 



Self-Raising Buckwheat. 
^ Farina. 





twoJCe^t^ Oatmeal. 



"rpRoPi ': 

Farm-Poultry 

'a 20 page practical poultry maga- 

•zlne sent sue months for only 25c. i 

Or for 15c. and ten names of persons /j.. 

keeping a few hens. Sample free. Mentioii liils paper 
I. S. Johnson & Co , 22 Custom House St., Boston. Mass. 





" STRUCK IT." 

Mr. Editob: — I must say 
that you have a very interest- 
ing poultry paper. I think 
you have struck the right 
key-note. There are more 
people who want to know 
how to be successful in poul- 
try raising than are anxious 
to know how Mr. So and So's 
birds scored. You ought to 
have the name of every poul- 
try raiser in New England 
on your subscription list. 
A. F. Williams!, 

Bristol, CoV/Ti' 



HOW TO GROW 

Gabbages and Gauliflowers 



MOST PROFITABLY. 



Illustrated. Price 30 cents, postpaid, by mail. 



It is not too much to say that this book gives the most com- 
plete information on the successful growing of these important 
crops that has ever been published. The prize essays, carefully 
edited, are published in full, and are vrritten by growers of 
long experience— Capt. G. H, Howard, of Suffolk County, 
L. I., well known as one of the most successful and largest 
growers of Cauliflower and Cabbage in America, and by Mr. J. 
Pedeesen (Bjeegaaed), of Denmark, a well-known writer 
and grower. To these is added an appendix that will interest 
our lady friends, giving, as it does, the recipes for cooking these 
vegetables, furnished for this book by Mr. S. J. Soyee, Chief 
Cook to His Majesty, the King of Denmark. The book treats 
fully on : — 

How to succeed with CABBAGES— The Best Soils— The Cabbage a 
Greedy Feeder — Manures — Planting and Cultivation— Insects — Early Cabbages — 
Late Cabbages — Cutting and Marketing. 

CAULIFIiOWEK.— Selection of Land— Making Seed Bed and Sowing 
Seed — Cultivation — The Earliest Forcing of Cauliflowers— Cauliflowers in the 
Open Ground — For the Family Garden — Enemies of the Cauliflower — Varieties 
— Tying and Bleaching — Cutting — Trimming — Packing for Market — How to 
Keep for Winter Use — Numerovis Eecipes for Cooking Cabbage and Cauliflower. 

Few, if any, crops that can be grown on the farm yield larger 
returns than Cabbage and Cauliflower, and with this "How 
to Grow " Treatise success is reasonably assured. 

To be had of Houses handling Agricultural Books, or will be 
sent, postpaid, by mail, upon receipt of price by the Publishers, 

W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., 

PHILADELPHIA, PA., AND LONDON, ENGLAND. 



HOW TO GROW ONIONS; 

WITH NOTES ON VARIETIES, 



A complete and exhaustive treatise; in every way a thor- 
oughly reliable guide for all who purpose growing this most 
profitable crop. This book will open a neTV field for profit 
to many who have previously been deterred from growing 
onions for market. It gives in full the prize essay, with the above 
title, by Mr. T. Greiner, 
of Monmouth County, N. J.; 
also Onion Growing by 
Irrigation, by Col. C. H. 
Arlie, of Lake View, Ore- 
gon — carefully edited, with 
additional notes, including 
an article on growing Sets, 
by W. Atlee Burpee. Be- 
sides other matter, it gives 
complete instruction on the 
following subjects : — 

Kinds of Soil — Preparation of the Soil 
— Manures ; How, When and What 
Kinds to Apply — Seed — Sowing the 
Seed — Rolling — Cultivation — Hand 
Weeding — The Most Useful Imple- 
ments — Thinning — Injurious In- 
sects — Harvesting the Crop — How 
to Market — Storing for Winter — 
American Varieties of Onions— Italian Varieties — How to Grow, Handle and 
Store Onion Sets — Onion Growing by Irrigation. 

Each subject connected with growing onions is treated in a 
plain and practical manner, so that Farmers who have never 
before raised onions for market can succeed, while even experi- 
enced growers may find many facts of interest. 

ILLUSTRATED. PRICE 30 CENTS, POSTPAID, 

or can be selected FREE as a premium on orders amounting to THREE 
DOLLARS or more. For full particulars, see page 21 of 

BURPEE'S FARM ANNUAL FOR 1891. 
W. ATLEE BURPEE & CO., SEED GROWERS, 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 




THE BEST KIND OF 

PROTECTION 

To Farm and Garden Interests 

Is secured by planting only 

The Best Seeds the World ProducM. 

There are none better than BuRPEE'S, 

As Thousands upon Thousands Testify. 

An Impartial, careful Reading of 

Burpee's Farm Annual i'8°9i 

Will probably persuade you to try 
This Practical Protection of your Garden 
Shall we mail you a copy ? 

W.ATLEE BURPEE&CO. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



YOU MAY BELIEVE IN 



FREE TRADE 

If so you will be pleased to know 
The tariff on seeds has not increased* 
But you must admit that 

PROTECTION 

To the interests of Farm and Garden 
Demands the use of Good SEEDS. 
If you want the Best write for 



Burpee's Farm Annual ; 



FOR 

1891 

riptions and illustrations. 
Rare Novelties in Vegetables and Flowers. 

W.ATLEE BURPEE&CO. 
PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



iilir-fii Ills 
isl?|s1= fill 



O; £ as 









h'^P 


















B§3 



ao2ll^^2bfgcD§aS 



CO""* H S ^ O 

■M'SeeC^© 

pigcDco-Ss^a 

©>;>.0 

^ O C8l-H 



»a.2iJoS^ 






b tc 



t< " M 03 *J O 

9« Sa;'^ f? 



J3 I ©I 




©•5.9 "> o tfc 

•\ H fc, br.3 xl « 

g_g l-co-g § 



I- 

(0 




■■■■ V / 



WM. F. FELL. W. T. DONALDSON. 

WM. F. FELL & COi, / 

PRINTERS. ^^-^^t 7/ 

1220-1224 Sansom Street. Philadelphia. 



j/f^ take pleasure in calling attention to the sim- 
ple announcement above. For ten years past 
Messrs. Wm. F. Fell & Co. have done all the print- 
ing for our house, excepting only the seed bags and 
small circulars, which are printed by ourselves. 
In this time they have printed for us more than 
TWF^LVn MII,I,ION Catalogues, books and cir- 
culars, and their work has invariably given us 
complete satisfaction. Take a copy of our FARM 
ANNTJAZ, any year for the past ten years, note the 
perfect *' register" of the pages, the clearness of the 
type, the clean appearance of the cuts, — take into 
consideration the light weight of the paper which 
we are obliged to use to save extra postage, and we 
think that any printer will admit that in a matter 
of printing such large editions it would he im.- 
possible to procure better work. 

Messrs. Fell & Co. are not what is generally 
known as ''cheap printers," but they do produce 
uniformly first-class work in both books and pam- 
phlets at moderate prices. So thoroughly satisfac- 
tory have all our dealings with them been that for 
some years past we have not obtained any competi- 
tive bids on our printing. 



I 




e 



"'^^ 



