


THE 




DyiDIES' 6001^ BOOI^, 



COMPILED BY THE 




LADIES' AID SOCIETY 



OF THK 





SOOTTDALE, PA 




SCOTTDALE. PA. 
1891. 



i INDEPENDENT PFiINT, SCOTTDALE, PA. 



ffl PREFACE.^ 






I 



PRESENTING this volume to the public, the com- 
pilers, the Ladies' Aid Society of the First Presby- 
terian Church, Scottdale, Pa., had two objects in 
.^ view: First, to assist the busy housewives in keepinaj 
/|» their tables supplied with wholesome, delicious food 
at the smallest cost; Second, to secure funds to be used for 
mission purposes. Many young housewives, and, in fact, 
some older ones, often work to a great disadvantage and waste 
of material by not knowing the best method of preparing 
food. There is a growing sentiment, however, for greater 
economy and better prepared food, leading the housewives 
everywhere to seek everything that will assist I hem in this 
laudable object, but a majority of the books written for 
housekeepers fail in their object, in that the recipes have 
been gathered from unreliable sources and frequently prove 
worthless. 

The compilers of this work, however, have selected such 
recipes only as are of known merit, and have been used by 
the ladies whose names are signed to them. Each depart- 
ment has been supplied with a sufficient number and variety 
of recipes to suit all, and yet contain nothing worthless, and 
will be found of great benefit to every lady who takes pride 
in her table. 

A lack of care in following recipes often renders worth- 
less that which would otherwise prove a success, hence the 
necessity of exactness in preparing recipes. Knowing the 
worth and value of the volume, the compilers have no hesi- 
tancy in offering it to the public, hoping that it may receive 
a cordial welcome and a fair trial. P. L. A. S. 



IE. GREEN AWAIT & CO.,;^ 



^^Pittsburg St.; S^ottdale, Pa.^ 

HEADQUARTERS FOR 

The latest styles of 



BOOTS & SHOES, 



and all Footwear, 

Either in Rubber, Cloth, or any of the various kinds of AmtMican or 
Imported Leather. Also a full line of Ladies' and Gent's funiishinu 
Goods, Underwear, Table Linen, Towels, Socks, &c. 

Prices the Lowest. Satisfaction Guaranteed. 



|e. e. greenawalt,| 



I THE FAMILY GROCERY,! 

iCDRNEll MIILBERY AND HIGH STS. SCOHDALE, FA j 

A Special Line of ^. We cater to 

HIGH GRADE GROCERIES I THE FAMILY TRADE 

always in .to=k, H ^"^ i"^''*^ >■"" »" g!^« '"' 

•^ '!;<•>?, a call Meat Market in con- 

Guaranteed to be fresh and Kl nection. Fre^h beef, fresh 

1^ and salted pork, veal and 
pure and sold at the most ^ mutton, and all kinds of 
reasonable prices. ^^ sausages. 



JUST THE STORE TO PLEASE YOU 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



A full line of Groceries at J. I. Rogers & Co. 



iCIlAKES 



White Cake.— Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds cup of but- 
ter, one cup of milk, whites of six eajgs, four cups flour, three table- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Flavor to taste with almond, lemon or 
vanilla. Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Lemon Cake.— 2i cups granulated sugar, 1 cup lard, 1 pint 
sweet milk, 2 eggs, 5 cents worth carDonate ot amonia,o cents worth 
oil of lemon, pinch of salt. Dissolve the amonia by grating it in 
the milk After the dough is made pound well with the rolling 
pin. Roll thin and cut in squares. Make the dough about as stift 
as pie dough, Mrs. T. G. Beaumont. 

EuKEivA Sponge Cake.— Four eegs beaten with 1^ cups of 
sugar, 2 cups of sifted flour, baking powder and lemon extract, each 
1 teasponful Beat thoroughly together and adJ f cup boiling 
water. It is very tliiu but makes a delicious and wholesome cake. 

Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

White Citron Cake.— Three cups pulverized sugar, one cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, whites of 9 eggs beaten 
stiff, two teaspooufuls baking powder, flavor with lemon, slice cit- 
ron very thin, dredge sl'ghlly with flour, bake in an oblong pan. 
Put layer of cake, then layer of citron, then layer of cake. Frost 
with ^^iiife^ri^ing. 

TciNG FOB Above.— One small cup granulated sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful water, boiled until it stiffens. Then pour on the whites 
or two eggs beaten stiff. Stir all the time and beat till cool. 

ClaraC. Smith. 

Friar's Omelette-— Boil and mash 12 apples as for sauce, 
stir into them 2 ounces butter; when cold add four eggs well beat- 
en; butter a-dish and strew in grated bread crumbs so as to coyer 
the bottom and sides of the dish. Pour in the apples, sprinkle 
bread crumbs over the top and bake. When done sift sugar over 
the top. M rs. M. L. Robinson. 

Knowledge teaches us to go Jacksons'. 



LADIES' COOK 300K. 



^ Eva Bobbs, A 

The only Complete Jewelry Store in town. 

Watches, Clockb and Jewelry 

0? ALL EINCS. 

Largest line of Quadruple Silver Plated ware in West- 
moreland county. All the leading Watch Movements con- 
stantly on hand. Optical goods, gold pens and pencils. 

Diamonds of all Descriptions 

Also a full line of 

Rogers' Celebrated Knives, Forks, 
Spoons, Etc. 

My optical department is the only place in town where you 
can have your Eyes Suited. Special attention given to 

All Kinds of Repairing. 

AT MY OLD ST0R3, 

MASONIC BUILDING, 

P^TTSBXJ1^G HT., SCOXXDA-LE, FA.. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



J. I, Rogers & Co., Scotldalc, Pa. 



Sponge Cake.— Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, one mea- 
sure ''Banner'' baking powder, i cup boiling water. 

Mrs. J. S. Parker. 

Chocolate Marble Cake.— One cup butter, 2 cups white 
augar,4 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 even teaspoonfuJs basing powder, 
3 cups of flour sifted twice with the baking powder. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yelks, then the 
sweet milk, flour with baking powder, and lastly, whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Take out one cuptull c f the batter,and stir 
in it one large tablespoonful of grated chocolate that has been pre- 
viously heated and dissolved with a tablespoonful of sweet milk. 
Alternate in the buttered cake-tin as for other marble cake. Ice 
with white or chocolate icing, or both as preferred. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Tilden Cake.— One cup butter, 2 cups pulverized sugar, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 3 cups flour, i cup corn starch, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Flavor to taste. Mrs. J. S. Parker. 

Light Rolls.— One cupful warm water, 2 cupf uls milk,l yeast 
cake, flour to make a soft batter. When light add a large spoonful 
of butter, and one of sugar, and mold. When well risen, divide 
into small pieces, make into rolls; rise again; glaze with the white 
of an egg, and bake. Miss Maud Loucks. 

Cookies. — Two-thirds cup of butter, one cup sugar, two-thirds 
cup milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in milk, 4 cups flour. 
Nutmeg to laste. Mrs. ,1. S. Parker. 

CocoANUT Sheets,— Whip stiff the whites of ten eggs, grate 
two fresh cocoanuts and add, with li cupf uls sugar and 1 cupful 
flour, well ^^lfted, with a spoonful of baking powder. Bake one-half 
hour in thin sheets. Ice and sprinkle with cocoanut. 

Miss Madge Woods. 

Pearls.— Two cupf uls white sugar, i cupful butter, 1 cupful 
sweet milk, whites of 7 eggs well beaten, 2 spoonfuls baking pow- 
der, 3 small cupfuls flour, flavor with almond or rose. Bake in 
small, round tins and ice thicKly. Miss Minnie Kinports. 

Orange Circles^.— Two cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful butter, 1 cup- 
ful milk, whites of 4 eggs and yelks of 5, 2 spoonfuls ^of baking 
powder, a spoonful of lemon flavoring, and flour to make a smooth 
batter; bake quickly lii round baking powder box covers. Take the 
white of 1 egg, and beat stiff with sugar, add the juice of 1 orange. 
Place two cakes together with the icing between, and ice the top. 
The grated skin may be used, if desired, in the icing. 

Miss Maud Loucks. 

Kustomers are always treated alike at Jacksons*. 



4 
LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



lC-8^^€8:-X X 38^^58$^ 




i 



*j 



l!^i«l^ 



.- 1" i^ii Willi 



il. 



-ALL THE LATEST STi^LES IN 



MILLINERY & FANCY GOODS. 



^54^^^ 



STAMPED GOODS, -^ 

MATERIAL FOR FANCY WORK, 

S^ Gloves, Hosiery and Infant's Wraps. 



-^as-i^- 



Silks, Satines, Velvets and Plushes. Stamping 

Done to Order. 
d^^lO Year's Experience. 

MRS. T. G. BEAUMONT, 

103 Pittsburg Street.,' -:- Scottdale, Pa., 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. L_ 

Buy your Groceries from J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Very Good Biscuit. — Oue quart flour. 2 teaspoonfuls bakin? 
powder, 1 large tablespoonful lard, a little salt and milk enough to 
make up soft, just so you can roll. Mrs. D. F. Stoner. 

Orange Cake.— To the yelks of six e^gs, well beaten, add 2 
cups sugar, f cup of butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 3i cups Hour, 1 meas- 
ure baking powder, whites of 4 eggs, stir gently, grate one-half of 
a large orange into the batter. Bake m la- ers in jelly cake pans. 

Icing for Above. — Beat the two remaining whitv^s stiff, add- 
ing 1 pound pulverized sugar, and the other half orange crated. 
When cold spread each layer with the icing. Miss Kate Frey. 

Ginger Snaps.— One quart molasses, f pint lard, 1 cup sour 
milk or 1 cup cold coffee, 2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 1 tablespoonful 
of soda, Eoll thin and bake in quick oven. Mr?. C. J. Percy. 

Cream Chocolate Cake.— Two cups granulated sugar, i cup 
butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, whites of 8 eggs, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. 

Crkam Icing for Above.— Two cups sugar, i cup sweet milk. 
Boil 4 minutes, flavor with vanilla, beat it until it creams, then 
spread on cake. Melt chocolate and spread over cream icing. 

Mrs. F. Grazier. 

Ice Cream Cake.— One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, two cups flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, whites of three eggs. Bake in three layers; flavor with 
yanilla. Icing— Yelks of three eggs, one cup suerar, one-half tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Beat fifteen minutes, spread between and over 
layers, set in oven a few minutes to harden. Mrs. S. B. McMillan. 

Tea Cake.— One cup sugar, 3 eg?s. i cup butter, 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Mrs. C. J. Percy. 

Angel's Food.— Use the whiter of eleven eggs, i tumbler 
sifted flour, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Mrs. :Nu11. 
Corn Starch Cake.— One cup white sug^r, 2 ef!:gs, I cup but- 
ter, i cup corn starch,i cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
^teaspoonful soda, H cups flour. Mrs. Lottie Ilarrer. 

Lady Cake. — Three-fourths cup butter, beaten to a cream, 
add 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 6 eggs, 3 cups flour, with 
1 measure baking powder; pass both throuh a seiye. 

Mrs. Lottie Ilarrer. 
Doughnuts.— Two eggs, f pound white sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
Fait, i pint sweet niilk, 1 tablespoonful melted butter. Add 3 pints 
flour, having in it 3 teaspoonfuls bakinc' powder. 

Mrs. Lottie Ilarrer. 

Knever miss going to Jacksons'. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK 



Best Goods, Latest Styles, Lowest Prices. 



Mrs. E. J, McWILLIAMS, 



V[n7i~n? E rY 



Notions, Ribbons, Hosiery, Gloves, 

Coi'sets, Fancy Goods, Ladies' Underwear, 

Zephyrs, Saxony, Hoods, Buttons, Tidies, 

Splashers, Art Embroidery, Materials. 



Crape Work Done to Orair. 

Fine Millinery a Sp3Cialty. 

Stamping Done to Order. 



PITTSBURG STREET, 

(ST0N3R BL0:K) 

SCOTTDALE. - PENN'A. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



For good Cakes get your Flour at J. I. Rogers. 

Cookies.— Six cups flour, 2 cups sus:ar, J cup biitter, i cup milk, 
4 teaspoonf uls cream tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls soda and a little nut- 
meg. Mrs. Lottie Harrer. 

Silver Cake.— One pound sugar, f pound flour, dried and 
sifted, i pouna butter, 1 pound citron, the whites of 14 eggs. Beat 
the sugar and butter to a cream, add the egg-whites beaten to a 
stiff froth, and, lastly, add the flour with il teaspoonf ul pounded 
mace and the grated rind of one lemon. Just before baking stir in 
the citron, which must have been well floured. Bake carefully and 
ice. This is a beautiful and delicious cake, if made accordmg to 
directions. Miss Dortha May Loucks. 

CREA31 Cake.— One quart sour cream, 4 eggs, beaten separate- 
ly, 1 light teaspoonf ul soda and 1 teaspoonful salt; add flour suffi- 
cient to make a stiff batter. Bake in a quick oven, split open, but- 
ter and serve hot. Mrs. E. II. Reid. 

Chocolate Cake.— One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 
1 cup sweet milk, 2 teasiX)onfuls cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful 
soda, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Beat the sugar, butter and eggs well 
together. Bake in layers. Paste for the cake- T^ike i cake choc- 
olate, three cups sugar, enougli water to wet the sugar; boil all to- 
gether, and stir in whites of four eggs, well beaten, when cool. 

Gertrude Rhoades. 

Cream Cake.— One cup sugar, i cup butter, w^hites of 4 eggs. 
i cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, two cups flour. For 
the Cream.— Yelks 3 eggs, i pint sweet milk, tablespoonful butter, 
4 teaspoons corn starch, sugar to taste. Spread thickly on layers. 

Mrs. W. F. Shotts. 

Jelly Rolls.— Three eggs, 1 cup coffee sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon water, i-measure baking powder. Mrs. W. J. Kemerer. 

Ginger Cake.— One half cup of sugar, 1 cup of New Orleans 
molasses, 2 teaspoonfu]s of soia, 1 teacup boiling of water, 1 egg, 
tablespoonful ginger, and I) cups of sifted flour. Pour the boiling 
w^ater on the soda, mix all other ingredients and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. Mrs. Klingensmith. 

Minnehaha Cake.— One and a half cups of sugar, i cup of 
butter, i cup sv.eet milk, 2 heaping cups of flour with 2 teaspoon- 
fuls Dr. Price's Baking powder, whites of 6 eggs beaten thorouhly. 
Bake in sheets. For Filling.— Take a teacup of sugar and a little 
water, boil together until it is brittle when dropped in cold w^ater, 
remove from stove and stir quickly into the well-beaten white of an 
egg. Add to this a cup of stoned raisins chopped fine, or a cup of 
chopped hickory nut meats and place between layers and oyer top. 

Anna Loucks. 

For Kuriosities in neck wear go to Jacksons'. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Albert Keister. Jacob S. Loucks. 

KEISTER & LODGES, 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

PURE ROLLER FLOUR, CORN 
MEAL, CHOP, ETC. 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

HAY, STRAW, mAIN, 
OIL MEAL, FIELD SEEDS, 
SALT AND MILL FEED. 

Office and Mills, North Broadway, 

SOOTTDALE, - PA. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Buy your Spices at J. I. Rogers <fe Co. 



Best Ginger Bread.— One-half cup sugar, 1 cup molasi-ses, i 
cup butter, 1 teaspoouful each of gmger, cinnamon and cloves, 2 
teaspoonfuls soda in a cup boiling water, 2^ cups flour. Add 2 well 
beaten ejrgs the last thing before baking. Mrs, Parker. 

Nut Cake —Two cupfuls sugar, i of a cup of butter, f of a cup 
of sweet milk, 3 cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of 6 eggs, 1 pint of nuts cut fine, 1 teaspoouful of vanilla or 
lemon. Beat the bulter and sugar lo a perfect cream, then stir in 
the milk a little at a time. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and add, a little at a time, flrst the e^g then the flour, into which 
has been mixed the bakniij powder. Add tlie flour and eggs alter- 
nately, till all is used, tlien stir ]n the nuts, and lastly the flavoring 

Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Bridgeport Cake.— One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
1 cup of milk, 4 eggs. 1 teaspoouful of soda, flour to thicken. 

Ice Creaji Cake.— Two cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful sweet milk, 
I cup butter, whites of 8 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 4 cups 
flour. Flavor with vanilla. Bake m layers with frosting between. 

Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Friht Cake.— One pound seedless raisin*', 2tt>s currants. ift> 
figs, itt) citron. After washing fruit drain well and then dredge 
with lifts flour. Do this flrst then make your batter, to three- 
fourth butter, beaten to a cream, litbs yellow sugar, yelks of 6 
well-beaten eges, i cup molasses, i cup sweet milk, one grated 
nutmeg, and one teasnoonful each of ground cinnamon, cloyes and 
allspice. Two teaspoonfuls baking powder, sifted with lifts flour. 
Pour this over fruit. Stir well then add the whites of six eggs well- 
beaten. Bake from three to four hours in a very slow oven at first. 
After baking two hours have more fire Clara Clifford Smith. 

Cinnamon Kolls.— One pint sweet milk, 1 cup butter, i cup 
yeast, 1 teaspoouful salt, 2 quarts of flour. Let stand over night. 
In the morning add 2 eggs and i cup sugar; roll out, cut in shape, 
sprinkle with sugar, butter and cinnamon. Let stand an hour and 
then bake.' Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Centennial Cake.— Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter,! cup sweet 
milk, 4 cups flour, 4 e<;;gs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. This may 
be divided in two equal parts after it is well beaten, to i add 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 tenspoonful each of cloves, nutmeg, 
ginger and allspice. Bake same as a marble cake. 

Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 
Layer Cake.— One and one-half cups suaar, i cup butter, i cup 
sweet milk, whites of 5 eggs, 21 cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. This makes five layers. Mrs M.L. Robinson. 

For Kind attention go to .Tacksons'. 



10 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 

Parker Bro's, 

DEALERS IN 

STAPLE ^ FANOY DRY GOODS 



OOOOOOOOOODOOOO 



Notions, Carpets, Oil Cloths, and Window 

shades, lace curtains and curtain 

poles a specialty. 

m. Boots and Shoes. 

We carry a large line of boots, shoes aud rub- 
ber goods of all desciiption which we are 
selling at the very lowest prices. 



ooooooooooooooo 



GIVE us A CALL APID BE CON 



PARKER BROS. 

308 and 310 Pittsburg Street. 

SCOTTDALE, - PENNA. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Buy your Dry Goods & Notions of J. I. Rogers & Oo. 

Angel Food.— Use the whites of eleven egacs, a half tunabter 
of sifted powdered sugar, 1 tumbler of sifted flour, 1 teaspoonf ul of 
vanilla, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Sift the flour three 
times then add the cream of taitar and sift again, Sift the sugar 
three times. -Beat the eggs to a stiff froth in a large dish. In the 
same dish add the sugar lightly, then the flour very gently, then 
the vanilla. Do not stop beating until you put it in the pan to 
bake. Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. Let it remain a 
few minutes longer if too soft when tried with a straw. Do not 
open the oven until the cake has been in fifteen minutes. Turn 
the pan upside down to cool. Take out by loosening around the 
sides with a knife, and then use a pan that has not been greased. 

Lou. M. Klingensmith. 

FRUiTiCooKiES.— Two cups of sugar, 2 cups of raisins, 1 cup 
of butter, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonf uls of mace, 2tablPspoonfuls of sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon of soda Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Chocolate Cake.— One cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, i cup 
sweet milk, 2 eggs, yelks and whites separate, 2 cups heaping of 
ilour, 1 teaspoonful of soda in milk. Mix into this i cake bakers 
chocolate, grated, 1 yelk of an e^g, i cup sweet milk, 1 cup sugar. 
Boil until sugar and chocolate melt. Stir all the time. Flavor 
with vanilla. Cook this first and let cool. Bake in layers. Ice 
with white icing. Clara C. Smith, 

Tea Cake.— One half cup butter. 1 cup of milk, 2 cups sugar, 
the whites of six eggs, beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then 
add H pints of flour, 11 teaspoons of baking powder. Mix well to- 
gether and bake in a hot oven. Mrs. T. G. Beaumont. 

Cream Cookies —Two cups granulated sugar,! cup sweet milk, 
1 cup butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor with va- 
nilla or lemon. Flour to make a very soft dough. After you nave 
it rolled Quite thin, sprinKle well with sugar and press the sugar 
into the dough. The more sugar you press in the better the cook- 
ies. Cut and place in pans and bake in a liot oven. 

Clara C. Smith. 

CKEA3I Cake.— Two and one-half cups of sugar, f of a cup of 
butter, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of cornstarch, 2i cups of flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfulls of baking powder, whites of seven eggs. Beat the sugar 
and butter to a cream-warm milk. Add cornstarch. Add eggs last. 

Miss E. V. Lynch. 
CiNNA3iO]S Rolls.— One pint of sweet milk, 1 cup of melted but- 
ter, 1 teaspoon of salt, i cup of yeast, two quarts of flour. Let 
stand over night; in the morning add two eggs and i cup of sugar. 
Roll out, cut in shape and sprinkle with a little butter, sugar and 
cinnamon. Let stand one hour before baking. 

For Kuffs go to Jacksons'. 



12 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



THIS SEASON 

ABOV E ALL OT H ERS. 

This season we have the bigrgest stocic, the finest poods and 
lowest prices. Our present line of attractions is certainly a credit 
to our establishment ana a satisfaction to our trade. A larger 
varit'ty or a finer showiner of latest styles and reliable standard 
^oodsV'ould be hard to tind any where\ Careful buyino: enables 
tis to offer that biir solid value for your money that never fails to 
please our customers when needing: anything in Dry Goods^ 
Notions and Gent's Furnishing Goods, llemember that the 

AMERICAN Dry Goods eoliOB Co., 

133 PITTSBURG ST., SCOTTDALE, PA. 

make it a point to be the leaders of low prices, not the followers of 
their CMllinpr, and as such are always looked upon and expected to 
devise new ways and means calculated to Denefit the public and 
enlighten the tiade. 

Read them carefully: 



1 Reached or unbleache 

muslin per yd $.05 

Calicoes per yd 08 

Oil Eed Calicoes per yd 05 

Indiyo blue calicoes per yd. .05 

Ginghams per yd 05 

Lancaster ginghams 07 

IJed lickiiii; 07 

Good sliirtiiig 07 

Kentucky jeans 10 



Fhniuel skirts $ .45 

Moleskin skirts 65 

Eureka skirts 75c up to 5.00 

Fine shirts, linen b^soiii 34 

Men's Jersey ovei -shirts. , . .25 
Men's good wf:olen socks. . . .15 
Four pair seamless socks. . . .25 

Windsor ties . .0J> 

Men's meimo undershirts. . .1^ 
All-wool undershirts 38- 



Don'tforsrft to come for fine flannel over m'm] nndprshirts. C<'me 
10 see us. We have i he best assortment and tie !• wpsi p ssible 
prices. \Vp hereby guarantee to undeisell every sicre in th'- two 
coi'nties. We have, rs thousands ol (U aie w»ll aware- 
always done so and will continue to le^d in low pi ices m lliefunire 
as in' thf» past. VV^ are becoming moip pt pnlar » Vf-r\ Ke..son. 
Wt'li, what does it? Why, Low Prices! Fair Tirai ment ! No- 
Misrtpre. entation ! 

AM[R1CAN Dry (Joods & Notion Co. 



SGOTTDALE, 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 13 * 

J. I. Rogers & Co. invites you to call. 

White Layer Cake with Chocolate Icintg.— Two cups 
granulated sugar. 1 cup corn starch and one cup tepid sweet milk. 
Beat well and add f of a cup of butter, beaten to a cream. Two 
heaping cups of flour, li teaspoons (heaping) bakinir powder, sifted 
with the flour, 1 teaspoonfiil vanilla, whites of 7 eggs, well beaten. 
Chocolate Icing. — One cup grated chocolate, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
i cup sweet milk, boil until thick enough to spread then put on the 
layers before it gets cold. Clara C. !Smi',h. 

Steamed Fruit Cake.— Seven eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 
i cup molasses, with i teaspoonful soda in it, ilb citron, lib raisina, 
1ft) currants, Iftj blanched almonds, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, i 
tablespoonful cloves, 1 quait of flower (after it is sifted). Flavor 
with about 5 drops of almond essence. Beat the eggs separate. 
Put the whites in the last thing betore putting it in the pan. Have 
the currants washed and dried the day before. Seed aud chop the 
raisins. Steam three hours very ffood. Mrs. Parker. 

Jelly Roll. — Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two 
teaspoonf uls baking powder, pinch of salt. Beat the whites. 

Mis. I. B. Brallier. 

Chocolate Kibbon Cake.— Two cups sugar, 1 cup milk, o 
cups of flour, 2 teaspoonf uls of baking powder, f cup of butler, 5 
eggs, reserve the whites of 8 of the eggs for icing, bake t of batter 
in 2 pans and to the remaining, add i cup grated chocolate (melt 
the chocolate) then bake. When done pile up layers, putting dark 
layer m the middle aud spread chocolate between. For icing take 
the white of 3 eggs, beaten stiff, H cups powdered sugar, 6 table- 
spoonfuls grated chocolate, 2 teaspoons vanilla. Mix icing in deep 
dish and set on teakettle over the steam so as to melt the chocolate. 
Stir occasionally until the chocolate is thoroughly dissolved. 

Miss Lou Klingen smith. 

Orange Cake.— Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, three cups flour, yelks of two eggs, whites of Ave e^gs^ 
three teaspoonf uls baking powder, crated peel and juice of one or- 
ange. Filling— Whites of three eggs, juice of one orange, fifteen 
spoonfuls sugar, Mrs. I. B. BralMer. 

Coffee Cake.— One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup su- 
gar, one-half cup shortening, one cup cold coffee, one cup raisins, 
one tablespoonful soda, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and 
cloves, flnur to make good stiff batter. Mrs. A. M. Gordon. 

Raisin Cake.— Take H fts of light dough, I teacup of sugar, 
1 teacup of butter, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of soda, lib of raisins, 
nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. Let it raise and bake one hour. 

Mrs. Klmgensmith. 

For Kollars go to Jacksons'. 



l^ LADIES' COOK BOOK 



JOHN I, DICK, 

SCOTTDALE, PA., 

Begs leave to announcf^ ^o the people of Scott- 
dale and vicinity that he is now prepared to 
do all kinds of 

« HOUSE:®PLUMBmG, * 

SANITARY. ffATER AND GAS. 

TIN ROOFING & SPOUTING 

Done on short notice and at prices to suit 
the times. A full line of 

HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS. 
JohiTi I. Dick, 

(Rf ar of Lciuoks v^' Morrow's IlKidware Store.) 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 15 

Call at J. I. Rogers & Co., and see their Bargains. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake.— Two cups sugar, one cup 
butter, four eggs, one cup milk, two heaping teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, three cups flour. Mrs. John Hurst. 

Lemon Cake.— Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, one 
cup lard or butter, one pint of sweet milk, two eggs, five cents 
worth of carbonate ammonia (kept by all druggists), five cents 
worth oil of lemon, a pinch of salt. Dissolve the ammonia by grat- 
ing it in the milk. After the dough is made pound it well with the 
rolling pin (the more they are pounded the lighter they become), 
roll thin and cut in squares. Make the dough about as stiff as pie 
dough. Miss Belle Brown. 

Hickory Nut Cake.— Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, I cup 
butter, 3 cups of flour, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup 
nut kernels cut fine. Miss Lou. Klingensmith. 

Fruit Cake.— One pound raisins, one pound currants, one 
pound butter, eight eggs, one-half pound citron, five cups flour, one 
cup New Orleans molasses, two cups brown sugar, I nutmeg one 
tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and. soda. Roll 
raisins, currants and citron in flour to prevent them from sinking. 

vSadie E. Brown. 
Strawberry Cake.— To the yelks of 3 eggs, beaten, add i 
cup while sugar, \ cup buCter, \ cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
having in it 1 measure of baking powder, the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake in jelly cake pans, when cold, and just before 
eating piacH in layers, covering each with strawberries, which have 
previously been sugared. Mrs. O. McCullough. 

Jurprise Cake.— One egg, 1 cup sugar, I cup of butter, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 teaspoons of cream tartar. 
Flour to make the proper consistency. Flavor with lemon. 

Mrs. Klingensmith. 

Sponge Cake.— Sugar 1 cup, 1 egg, 1 cup sweet milk, butter 
the size of an egg, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 2 cups flour, sea- 
son to taste; bake in long pan, cut in squares, serye with 1 pint of 
sweet cream whipped to a stiff froth. Four tablespoonful s of su- 
gar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon add sugar and fl.tvoring to 
the cream when beaten. Mrs. M. O. McCullough. 



For Klothinggo to Jacksons', ScoUdale, Pa. 



16 LADIES* COOK BOOK. 




Baker and Confectiont r. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



A full line of Groceries at J. I. Rogers & Co, 



;^ ^^ 

%]^ — ' ^J? 

Ginger Snaps— One cup molasses, i cup lard. 1 teaspoon soda, 
salt and ginger to taste. Mix stiff, roll thin and bake quickly. 

Mrp. A. M. Gordon. 

Cookies —Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sour 
milk or cream, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda. Roll soft. 

Mrs. I. B. Brallier. 

Tcixo FOR Cake.— One cup of white sugar; a small half cup 
of cream Boil ten minutes, then bv^at until stiff enough to spread. 

Mrs. J. B Lyle. 

Butter Scotch.— Two large cups brown sugar, i cup butter, 
i cup water. Cook until it snaps or stnngs as poured from the 
spoon, pour thin upon buttered pans, and when nearly cold score in 
squares. It is delicious. Miss Dora Ruff. 

Corn Fritters. —Cut the corn from the cob, break an egg into 
it, salt and pepper to s^nit the taste, drop into a frying pan in 
whicli there is hot butter. Fry on both sides until a rich brown. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Corn Pone.— Two eggs, 1 cr.p sugar, i cup butter, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 cup butter milk, 2 cups Hour; two cups corn meal, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda. Sadie Brown. 

Sugar Cookies.— One cup shortening, two cups sugar, one 
cup sour milk, one egg, one teaspoontul salt, one teaspoonf ul soda, 
flour to mould and roll well. Cut out and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Flannel Cakes.— One quart of flour, one gill of cornmeal, 
four eggs, one tablespoonful of butter melted in apint of fresh milk, 
salt to taste, and two teaspoonf uls of baking powder, or half a pipfe -> 
-sour-eream and 1 levet teaspoonf ul .of- -setfer- The eggs must be 
beaten separately, very light. Bake quickly as you would buck- 
wheat cakes. Dortha Loucks. 

Kash your checks at Jacksons'. 



18 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



I OO TO I 

I John Graffius, i 

S i 

A —FOR YOUR— £ 

I CLOTHING, HATS, CAPS & | 
I GENrS FURNISHIN G | 

I GOODS . I 

4 SCOTTDALE, PA-, t 



LAD1E6' COOK BOOK. 19 

J. I, Rogers & Co.'s General Store, Scotldalc, Pa. 

CocoANUT Cookies.— Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful soda. Dissolve in tablespconful milk. One 
cocounut and flour enough to roll, Mrs. A. M. Gordon. 

CooKiEsj.— Two cups sugar, saye enough to sprinkle on top, one 
cup sour cream, one egg, butter size of an egg, flavor to taste. 

Mrs. M. L. llobinson. 

Buns.— One pint of sweet milk, boiled, when cool add three 
tablespoonf uls of sugar, two tablespoonf uls of lard, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one cup of yeast. Mix into a stiff dough, as for bread, 
let rise over night, mould into shape, put into pan and when it be- 
comes light, bake. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Ginger Cookies.— One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one egg, 
one cup butter, one tablespDonful soda and same of gmger. Sprm- 
kle with sugar before baking. Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Lemon Jumbles.— One teacupful sugar, one-half teacupful 
butter,one egg, three teaspoonfuls milk,one teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful soda. Juice of two small lemons, grated 
rind of one lemon. Mix rather stiff, roll out thin and cut out with 
a cake cutter. Bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. Charles Jones. 

Waffles Light as Aiu.— The following receipe is perfect: 
To one quart of flour add one pint ot warm (not hot) corn meal 
mush, salt to taste, seven eggs beaten light separately, one tea- 
cupful of sweet cream, and fresh milk suflicient to make a thin 
batter. Stir the cream and beaten egg yelks into the mush, then 
add the flour and fresh milk, stirring well and mixing perfectly 
smooth The egg white, beaten lo a stiff froth, should be added 
just befote cooking. The batter should be as thick as buttermilk^ 
and the waflle irons well heated and thoroughly greased. No waf- 
fles could be nicer than these if made exactlv according to directions. 
Raw meal will not do; it must be made into mush, the eggs must 
be beaten light and the batter must be thin. Mrs. W. F. Shotts. 

VVaffles.— To one quart of flour add one pint of warm (not 
hot) corn meal mush, sait to taste, seven eggs, beaten light sepa- 
rately, on j teacupful of sweet cieam and fresh milk, suflicient to 
make^a thin batter. Stir the cream and beaten egg yelks into the 
mush, then add the flour and fresh milk, stirring well and mixing 
perfectly smooth. The esg white beaten to a stiff froth should be 
added just before cooking. The batter should be as thin as butter- 
milk ana the waflie irons well heated, and thoroughly greased. 
Raw meal will not do; it must be made into mush, the eggs must 
be beaten light, and the batter must be thin. Sadie Keddle. 

Koming to Jacksons' for clothing? 



20 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



^o> 



■ 'O^- 








v>' 



■!^'«; 




^^^•^> 






.^^ 



^\^^ 



%^'^^ 




-^^ 
^ 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 21 

Buy your Groceries from J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Green Corn Fritters.— Select well grown hue tender corn, 
ana grate from the cobs one quart. Add to this half a pint of flour 
salt to tasie, (be sure to put in enough or the fritters will be insi- 
pid), one heaping tablespoonful of butter, and four eggs beaten 
separately very light. Drop by large spoonfuls into boiling lard; 
or tliii) ttie batter with cream, or tresh milk, and fry as you would 
buckwheat cakes. Send to the tnble as fast as they are cooked, 
butter and e^it hot. These are delicious either wav. 

Mrs. W. F. Shotls. 

Corn Bread.— One quart of buttermilk, 2 level teaspoonfuls 
of soda, 2 eggs well beaten, 2 tablespoonfuls of suear, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, lump of butter size of a walnut, thicken with corn meal 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Klingensmiih. 

GRAHA3f Bread.— One and one half cups sour milk, 2 heaping 
cups graham flour, i cup sugar and molasses mixed, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon soda. Bake in slow oven one hour. Mrs. Hurst. 

EusK. — One quart of thin sponge, 1 quart of warm water, one 
cup of lard and butter mixed, li cups of sugar, stir in flour, and 
kneed well, and let rise, when quite light mould into small cakes 
and let them rise again three or four hours. 

Lull. M. Klingensmith. 

Boston CoRNBREAD.— One cup of s\veet milk, 2 cups of sour 
milk, i cup of molasses, 1 cup flour, 4 cups corn meal, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls soda. Steam three hours and brown a few minutes m the 
oven. Mrs. Jarrett. 

Rusk.— One pint sweet milk, 3 eggs, one cup sugar, one cup 
lard or butter, one pint of good yeast- Stir well and let rise, then 
stiffen. Let rise again and then work out in pans. Put in 
warm place until raised, then bake for fifceen minutes. 

Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Buns.— To 1 pint of sour cream add the yelks of two eggs, well 
beaten, add 1 tablespoon (heaping) of butter, H table spoons of su- 
gar, pinch of salt, flour to make >» stiff batter. Beat the whites of 
two eggs, add them and \ teaspoon soda, dissolved in a little boiling 
water; stir this in just before dropping into your pans. These 
should be bake.J in cookie pans. Have your oven as hot as for 
buscuit. Place in oven just before you commence lifting your 
dinner. When done place in a napk-n and serve hot. 

Clara C. Smith. 

Corn Muffins.— Mix 2 cupfuls corn meal,2cupfuls flour, icup 
sugar, \ CUD mel ed butter, 2 q^x?.'^ ^nd 1 teaspoonful of salt. Dis- 
solve 1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 of cream tartar in a little milk, 
and beat it through. Add milk enough to make a moderately stiff 
batter, and bake in rings or gem pans. Mrs. Parker. 

Kail at Jacksons' for overcoats. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



^, ,^ - sS 

i< OFFICE OF * n 

i W. BODENHEIMEli I 

1^ DEALER IN ^ 

'^ TTinT^n TTTAAT » \Trv miTrAITT >l 



I HIDES, WOOL AND TALLOW. 

Pittsburg St., Scottdale, Pa. 



>? 






LADIES' COOK BOOK. 23 

For good Cakes get your Flour at J. I. Rogers & Oo's. 

Hot Biscuit.— Oqb quart of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls bakiDs: 
powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespooDfuI lard, 1 piDt sweet milk 
cold. Use cold water when milk canDot be obtained. Sift to- 
ofether flour, salt and powder, rub in lard cold; add milk; form into 
a smooth consistent (?ough. Roll out to the thickness of I of an 
inch; cut with small round cutter. Bakt? in good hot oven. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Bell Fritters.— Put a pint of water in a stew pan over the 
fire, when boiiing stir in rapidly one pint of flour, making a very 
stiff paste. Take it out when co^^l, add three well-beaten eggs 
with a little salt. Have boilins lard ready and drop in the fritters 
with a spoon. If the lard is just boiling they will puff like balls. 
Serve with lemon sauce, Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Bordeaux Sauce.— One gallon cabbage cut fine, 1 gallon to- 
matoes cut fine, 2 medium onions, ^ ounce celery seed, i ounce tur- 
meric, i pound white mustard seed; 1 pound white sugar, cayenne 
pepper to suit taste. Add vinegar to cover, and can as other fruit. 

Mrs. S. B. McMillan. 

Buckwheat Cakes.— One quart of buckwheat flour, 1 gill of 
indian meal; 1 quart and 1 gill of warm water, 1 gill of yeast, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of salt. Mix the batter at night in order to have the 
cakes for breakfast. Bake the cakes on a smooth greased griddle 
and send to the table the moment they are baked. Pile in the 
center of the plate and every one right side up. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Peach Rolls. — Stew dried fruit, sweeten and flavor to laste. 
Make a good baking powder crust, roll very thin, spread fruit on, 
putting ihin slices of butter on the fruit, roll crust up, place in a 
pan four or five inches deep. To three or four rolls add 1 cup sugar 
and ^ cup butter. Pour in hot water enough to cover them. Bake 
half an hour. Mrs, S. B. McMillan. 

Pop Overs.— Two teacupfulsot sw^eetmilk, two teacupfuls of 
sifted flour heaped a little, butter the size of a walnut, 2 eggs, 1 
tablespoon of sugar, a little salt. Bake in gem pans filled half 
full. Bake tw^enty minutes and serve immediately. 

Dessie Hurst. 

Corn Muflius. — Three eggs, 1 cup of susrar, 1 cup of water or 
sweet milk, i cup of lard or butter, 1 pint of flour, U pints of corn 
meal, 2 measures of baking powder. Mrs. R. Lynch. 

Best Pone. — Take 1 pint of fine Indian meal and 1 pint of 
buttermilk, melt 1 tablespoonf ul of butter and add to it, beat 2 egg s 
very light, 1 teaspoonful cf cream of tartar dry, dissolve a table- 
spoonful of soJa iu a small quantity of milk, beat all hard and bake 
in a quick oven. Mrs. Parker. 

Karry your friends to Jacksons'. 



24 J.ADIES' COOK IJOOK. 



Catitai. ^50,000 Individual Rksponsimiltty. ^200,000. 



SCOTTDALE BaNK 



p:stablislied ISH-J. 



J. R. Stai'ffer, Pkesident. 

P. S. LorcKs, YiCL-: Prksjdknt. 

J. M. StaLFFER, C.V^HIER, 

W. F. StaI'Ffer, Ass't Cashier. 



A GENERAL 



imW, -•- BOSINES -!- lASS'™" 



-^I]QOI)EYvLO^I]ED.^ 

Deposits lieceived Subject to Check. 

Special Attention Given to Home Collections. 
Acconnts of Merchants and Others Solicited. 

Foreign and Domestic Exchange Bought and Sold.- 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Buy your Spices at J. I. Rogers ife Co. 



Lemon Shortcake.— One lar^^e cup of sweet cream, a little 
salt, three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, sitted witli 
flour sufficient to knead lightly and roll out, divide into layers, a 
thin coat of butter belwceu the layers to insure opening easily, 
bake quickly, and when done separate layers, spread thick with 
butter, then add the lemon and sugar, aft^r whidi pour over that 
a cup of sweet cream, cover with upper layer. Prepire the lemon 
as follows: Select a large juicy It^moa, grace the peel, then cut up 
the puip in small bits (rejecting of course the t^uigh white rind,) 
stir these in a bowl wuli a cupful of su ^ar. vS )ur cr am and soda 
can be used, if preferred, for ilie short cake. Ms. A. S. Loucks. 

Graham Muffins.— One quart of gialiam il.air, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, a piece ot b uur the .size of a walnut, 
one eg^, one teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teaspooniul of salt, 
milk enough to make a batter as thick as for griddle-cakes. Bake 
in gem-pans or muffin-rings in a hot oven. Mrs. Parker. 

Doughnuts.— One pint sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one tablespoontul melted lard. 

Mrs. S. B. McMillan, 






Kbristmas silk mufflers at Jacksons\ 



2(5 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



til Wli^i^ii^ 

^xA^iictioneei-^^ 

, — CORNE R M A KK ET AND STO X E R ST H E E I^S , -^ 
S( OTTDALE,rA. 

— -'^'B^^— 
Public Sales of all Kinds, Baying and Selling ^Stores, Sell- 
ing Real Estate and Fine Thorouorhbred 



Stock a s[>ecialty. 
AUCTlONEERINCx DONE ON SHORT NOTICE. 



ivi:mi:x"jee:x - Yi^"..vi?ts - ii:x:i>jp::iiii^^i\OK. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 27 



Buy your Dry Goods & Xotion8 of J. I. Rogers tt ^^'o. 



lES AND DESSERTS. 

ViV&^3te3ki'viaU3*SS'£aUl!3aU3/ii:3«iAi.3-48vf,3lS^>£2X^ 



p 






Mince Pies.— Boil, and when cold chop very fine 4 pounds of 
"beef, add 1 pound chopped suet, 2 pounds of raisins, 2 pounds of 
English currants, 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. 1 tablespoonful 
of cloves, 1 peck of apples, 2 pounds of sugar, 3 quartb of cider, 
mix well and put into a stone jar and cover. 

Mrs. M.O. McCulIough. 

Pumpkin Pies.— One quart of mashed pumpkins, 4 eggs, H 
cups sugar, i cup butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 quart, of milk. 
Beat white of eggs separate, and add last. Mrs. F. Grazier. 

LemonPie.— Four eggs, H cups of sugar, 1 cup water, * cup 
milk, juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon. 2 large teaspoonfuls 
of corn starch or flour. Frosting for pies.— The whites of the eggs 
and four tablepoonfuls of sugar. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

CocoANUT CusTAKD.— One cocoaniit grated, 4 eggs beaten 
seperately, f of a tinfull of sugar, butter the size of an egg, H pints 
of sweet milk. This makes a tilling for three pies. Mrs. Hurst. 

Pie Crust.— One and one half cups of lard, 1 cup coii water, 
3i cups of flour, mix lard and flour together, add w^ater last. This 
will make four small pies. 

Lemon Sauce.— One quart of boiling water, tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, 2 lemons grated, part of the rind of one, 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, moistened in water. Stir in 
the mixture. Very nice for puddings. Mrs. Klmgensmith. 

Orange Dessert.— Pare 5 oranges, cut into thin slices, pour 
over them a cupful of sugar, boil 1 pint of milk, add, while boiling, 
the yelks of 8 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, (made smooth with 
a little cold milk). As soon as it thickens pour oyer the fruit. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Pour over the custard and brown slightly in the 
oven. Serve cold. 

Komfortable clothing at Jacksons'. 



28 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



mi. 



CM Jarrett'B 

Is the place to get the ingredients for 
preparing all recipes found in this book;. 



« 

ALSO — 



Fruits, Vegetables • : • 

& Fancy Groceries. 



» • I 



*^^-f^ 



duality, Not Gluantity, is Our Motto. 

— ^^DON'T FOEvGET THE >'LACE,;*-— 
PITTSBURG STr.EET, SCOrrD.VJ.E. PA. 






LADIES' COOK BOOK. 29 

J. I. Rogers & Co, invite you to call. 

Lemon Pik.— One teacup powdered sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul of 
butter, 1 egg, juice and grated rind of one lemon, (is enough for 
three pies) 1 teacup boiling water, one tablespoonf ui corn starch, 
dissolve the corn starch in cold water and then add it and the 
sugar and butter well beaten together, to the boiling water, this 
becomes thick and when cold add the lemon and beaten egg, bake 
with bottom crust and trost if you like. Very good. 

Mrs. Parker 

Crkam Pie.— One pint of new milk, 1 heaping tablespoonf al of 
ilour mixed with 1 tablespoont'ul of batter, 3 tablespooufuls of 
sugar and the yelks of 2 eggs. Bake in a crust. Whip the whites 
of the eggs to a still: froth, add a little sugar and spread on the pie 
when done. Brown in the oven. Dorothy Loucks. 

CiiEA3i ArrLE Pie.— Line a pie tin with good crust, till with 
apples cut in quarters and cover with h cup of sugar, spice to taste. 
"When ready fur the oven sprinkle with flour, and pour over i cup 
•of sweet cream and bake. Mrs. ,J. S. Klingensmith. 

Hard Ti3ie Preserves.- Put in a vessel ilh of sugar and 
water enough to dissolve it. Let it boil till the consistency uf mo 
lasses, then add 3 eggs well beaten, and flavor wiih lemon, 

Mrs. Klingensmith. 

Jenny Lind Pudding.— One dozen lady finger^, 1 dozen mac- 
iiroons, 1 dozen cocoanut cakes, 1 quart of custard, 1 cupful of 
€OCoauut. Make a quart of soft custard and flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. When cold pour on the rakes which have been arranged 
in a deep glass dish. Sprinkle the cocoanut oyer this and serve 
with cream. Sadie Keddle. 

Fruit Pudding.— One cup of sweet milk. 1 cup molasses,! 
CUD sugai, 1 cup seeded raisins, i cup currants, U cups melted but- 
ter, oi cups flour, one egg, and i teaspoon soda mix and boil three 
hours. Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Cocoanut Pudding.— Soak three tablespooufuls of tapioca in 
SL little cold milk over night. Boil one quart of milk, add tapioca 
and boil ten minutes, then add yelks of 4 eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of cocoanut, one cup o sugar. Bake fifteen minutes, beat the 
whites to a froth, add two tablespooufuls of sugar. *Vhen cool 
spread on top, sprinkle with cocoanut and set it in the oven to 
brown a little. Serve cold. Kate Frey. 

Apple Cream Custard.— Bake o apples and then remove the 
cores and skins, beat whites of three eggs to a froth, add apple and 
beat. Serve with boiled custard made of one quart of milk, yelks 
of three eggs, small cup of sugar, i cup of flour and a little salt. 

Mis. M. O. McCuliough. 



Knew Year will be welcome at Jacksons\ 



30 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



THE 

First National Bank, 

' OF SCOTTDALE, 



CAPITAL STOCK $50,000 



—OFFICERS: 



A. L- Ketster, Pres., A. S. Loucks, Vice-Fres., A. B, 
PiCKARD, Cashier. 

This bank transacts a general banking business, loans 
rtione}-, reeeives deposits subject to check at sight. Buys- 
an. I sells exchange on principal cities at current rates. 

— -DIRECTORS: 



A. L. Keistkr, Tiio^rAs Lyxcii, A. W. Mellon', 

A. S. LouTKs, Jacob Shekrick, W.Scott Laxe, 
John W. Ruth, B. F. IvEisrER, A. C. Overholt 



J.Ai)IEfe' COOK BOOK. 31 

Call at J. I. Rogers & Co., and eee their Bargains. 



Kisses.— Beat the whites of 6 egRS to a stiff froth, stir In a cup- 
ful of powdered sugar gently and quickly. Spread paraflne paper 
on a board. Drop the mixture by bpoontuls on the board. Dry in 
a warm oven for about three-quarters of an hour, then brown them 
slightly. Lift from the paper and stick them together at the base 
by twos. Sadie Keddle. 

Potato Puff.— Three well-beaten eggs, 1 pint mashed pota- f 
toes, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, mix well :• 
together, add popper and salt to taste, and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. E. H. Reid. ' 

Sally Lund.— One cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups 
flour, 2 eggs, three teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. Serye 
while warm. Sauce.— One cup sugar, icup butter, i cup rich cream, 
beat butter and sugar thorougbly, add cup boiling ,/ater, place on 
stove for a few minutes, stirring constantly. Take off and add fla- 
vorm?, Belle Brown. 

PLU3I Pudding.— One cup currants, ilbsuet, 3 eggs, a pinch of 
salt, one quart of flour, milk to make baiter stiff as any ordinary 
cake. Tie the pudding in a cIoth.wrung;out of boiling water, sprink- 
eled with flour, boil in pot of boiling water for tliree hours. Serve 
while hot. Sauce. — Lump of butter size of i- egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 
cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon corn otarch; dissolve in a little cold 
water. Let come to the boil, stir well all the time and theu add 
two tea spoons vanilla. Clara C. Smith. 

Orange Charlotte.— One-third cup gelatine, i cup boiling 
water, i cup coldwater, 1 cup sugar, juice ot 1 lemon, 1 cup of 
orange juice and puip. Soak the gelatine in the cold water one 
hour, pour on the boiling water, stir until the gelatine is dissolved, 
add sugar and lemon juice, stir well and add orange juice pulp and 
grated rmd of 1 orange. Poui into a mold, previously wet with ^ 
cold watorand set to cool. When firm turn upon a platter and pour I 
whipped cream over it; or — beat the whites of 3 eggs stiff and when « 
the jelly begins to set, add the whites gradually and beiit until stiff* 
enougii to drop, and pour into the mold. Mrs. Charles Jones. 

Apple Charlotte Pudding.— Butter a pudding dish; line 
bottom and sides with slices of bread, i an incli thick, buttered and 
dipped in cold water. Fill dish witli sliced, jui y apples, 1 cup su- 
gar, 1 cap cold water, little spice. CovtT v\iLh slices ot buttered 
bread, cover and bake very slowly four hours. Anna Luucks. 

Batter Pudding.— One egtr, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of sugar, 
1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cud suet, H cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking pov\der. Boil four hours. Serve hot with sauce. 

Mrs. M. O. McCullough. 

Khristinas gloves at Jacksons'. 



32 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



m 



SGO T()5 



U. G. Miller, 

419 BROADWAY, 

SCOTTDALE, - PENN'A, 



FOR^" 



STAPLE AND FANCY 
GROCERIES. 



» U. & MILLEE. i 



ALSO, A FULL LINP: OF 

-taSfciV, Qount^u 2!t^obuce, 8cc. 

The very Best Goods at the Lowest 
Prices. 

Goods delivered free within 3 
miles of store. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 33 

A full line of Groceries at J. I. Rogers & Oo. 

Tapioca Pudding. — One cup penrl tapioca soaked iu vater 
over night, then add I cup sugar, beat the y-'llr of one egj? and then 
add the tapioca, 1 quart ij". milk. Let corae to the boil, sir in the 
above and boil slowly for flye minutes. Stir constantly. One tea- 
spoon vanilla. After taking from the fire, stir in the white of one 
well-beaten egg. L»et get cold and serye with cream. 

Clara C. Smith. 

Corn Pudding.— One pint of grat- d corn, 1 pint of sweet milk, 
two eggs.l tablesp )on butter,! tablespoon sugar, salt and pepper to / 
taste. Bake slowly until a nice brown, and serye hot. When/ 
green corn cannot be had, use ''Kornlet." put up in cans. 

Clara C. Smith. 

Pudding.— Crumbled small loaf of stale bread, pour over it 
A quart of boiling milk, when cold add 6 eggs beaten light, itb of su- 
gar, ift) butter, creamed together if necessary, add a little flour, 
boil or bake. Served with Lemon Sauce. Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Lemon Custard.— One lemon, 4 eggs, 2 cups sugar, i cup vin- 
egar, 1 cup thick cream. 4 tablespoonfuls flour, four cups water. 

Belle Brown. 

Apple Custard.— Pare and grate 2 large, tart apples; add 4 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight of sugar, juice and grated rind 
ot 1 lemon, yelks and whites of six eggs, senarately beaten. Line 
•dish with puff paste, fill and bake like custard. Anna Loucks. 

Creamed Apples.— Select thin-skinned apples, such as the 
"Fameuse," or Snow, core, without paring; All with sugarand bake 
While cooling, whip U cups cold svveeet cream till smooth and firm: 
add 2 tablespoonfulls powdered sugar, a little vanilla or lemon. 
Place apples in sauce cii^hes. cover with cream and serve at once. 

Anna Loucks. 

Baked Apple Dumpl? ngs.— Pare and core tart apples, Make 
ii good pie crust. Cutout (with pail cover, if you have no l-irge 
cutter) rounds, in which wrap each apple. Bake; serve with cream 
^.nd sugar. Anna Loucks. 

Almond Pudding— Make a sponge cake, bake in a long pan, 
have the cake about 2 inches thick. Blanch a pound of alnr.onds, 
and pound them in rose water, mix with 4 grated crackers, 6 eggs, 
a pound of butter, a pound of sugar, and a wine-glass of grape 
jelly. Pour on the cake, set in the oven 20 minutes, cover with me- 
ringue, flavored with extract of almond. Maude Loucks. 

Steam Pudding.— One cup sugar, one-half cup butter beaten 
to a <jream, add three eggs well beaten, three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, three cups flour, milk to raaKe it a stiff batter, steam one 
hour, serve with dip. Mrs. Parker. 

Khristmas clothing at Jacksons'. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



<M^- 




»^;LUKER'S)i^ 

I OliiOleri 







Never Fails, 







Try it. 



LADIE6' COOK BOOK. 



J. I, Kogers & Co.'s Geueral Store, Scottdale, Pa. 

Sauce for Pudding.— One cup su^ar, i cup butter, beat to a 
cream, add one beaten eegr, teaspoonful of flour wet with cold water, i 
Add i pint boiling water and let all boil a few moments, stirring- / 
constantly, Anna Loucks. 

Savory Snoav Balls.— One cup of rice, soaked oyer night, 
and steamed or boiled in slightly salted water as for plain rice pud- 
ding. Pare and core, without dividing, a few good, sour apples. 
Pill them with some of the rice. Take some soft white cotton 
cloth,divide into small, square pieces, proportioned to size of apples 
Wet each piece in cold water; spread about one-half inch thick 
with the rice; wrap in each, an apple, and tie securely. Boil or 
steam one hour, steaming being preferable, I think. Drip in cold 
water before attem pting to remove cloth; serve with plain cream 
and sugar or with pudding sauce. They are very delicious. 

Anna Loucks. 

Chocolate Pudding.— Boil one quart of milk, add a teacup of 
butter, 1 teacup of sugar, and 3 ounces of grated chocolate. When 
cool, add the yelks of 4 eggs. Pour in a pudding dish lined witb 
stale cake. Bake, cover with meringue, and brown. 

Maude Loucks. 

Baked Apple Dumplings.— One quart flour with two tea- 
spoonfuls baking nowder sifted in it, two-thirds of a cup of butter^ 
one teaspoonful of salt, enough water to- make a stiff dough, roll a 
quaiter of an inch thick, cut in squares, All the core with sugar, 
placing them in the dougn and putting the four corners together. 
The same recipe will do for pot pie. Mrs. II. J. Smiley. 

Pig Pudding —Chop ift of figs fine, mix with a teacup of 
grated bread crumbs, lib sugar, teacup of melted butter, 5 ounces of 
candied orange peel and citron. 1 grated nutmeg and 5 well-beaten 
eggs. Steam 4 hours and serve with sauce. Maude Loucks. 

Bird's Nest Pudding.— Pare and core, without quartering, ' 
enough quick cooking tart apples to fill a pudding-pan, make a 
custard of one quart milk and the yelks of four eegs, sweeten^ 
flavor, pour over apples and bake, when done, use the whites of 
eggs beaten stiff with four tablespoons white sugar, spread on the 
custard, brown lightly, and serve either hot or cold. If necessary, 
apples may be baked a short time before adding custard. 

Mrs. W. r. Shotts. 

Railroad Pudding.— Beat one e^^, add one cup of sugar, j 
one tablespoonf ul of melted butter, one and a half cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, half a cup of milk and one j 
teaspoonful of lemon extract. Bake in a greased pan and serve / 
with lemoa sauce. Maude Loucks. 

Kninety-one will find you at Jacksons'. 



36 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



FIX THIS IN YOUR MIND 



THAT * 



MR DOLLAR DOES DOUBLE DHT! 

When it Buys 

4S00D GOODS CHEAIf' 



It is our business to give the most for the 
money. Then call on 

Who have the largest and choicest stock of 
groceries, canned goods, dried and evapo- 
rated fruits, both foreign and domestic, 
Coffees of all brands, selected teas, 
pure spices, etc. etc. Also 

Dry Goods, Boots, Shoes ana Rutitiers, all at 
Lowest Prices. 

For all bills over five dollars 5 per cent, off 
for cash. Goods delivered free. 



PORTER & STONER, 

117 Pittsburg St., - - Scottdale, Pa, 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 37 

Buy your Groceries from J. I. Rogers & Co. 

CiTiioN Pudding.— Beat the yelks ot 10 eggs with a pound of 
sugar and ilb of butter. Cut a pound of citron in pieces, stir in. 
Line a pu :ding dish with stale cake, Pour iu the mixture and 
bake. Eai wjth sauce. Maude Loucks. 

AiPLE Float.— Take sour apples and bake without having 
any water about them. When done scrupe the pulp. Mix welt 
with sugar, set away to get cold. Be it the whites of four eggs» 
and add to apples; beat together tor half an hour. Custard for the 
above— Que qjarc ot milk, > elks of four eggs, 1 tablespoimtul corn 
starch. Sweeten to taste, flavor with leuiou. Form the apples 
into shape ai:d pour the float around. 

Cocx)ANUT Pur>DiNG.— Take half a pound of grated ccci anut^ 
half a pound cf butier and sugar each, the yelks and whites of 
four egy;s, the juice of a lemon and a teaspoonful of extract of 
roses. Bake and serve with hard sauce. Maude Loucks. 

Vanity Pudding— Take one quart milk, four eggs, beat white 
and yelks separately, boil the milk all except a little to mix with 
the yelks ot eegs; pour boiling milk into the mixture, stirring 
meanwhile. Return to the tire and bring to the boil, add a pinch 
of salt; a teaspoon of butter, about two tablespoon fuls of bread 
crumbs, and sugar enough to suit the taste; with nutmeg or vanilla 
flavoring. Pour into a dish, have the whites ot esrgs beaten lights 
and spread on top Put in a moderately hot oven for two minutes; 
don't let it be brown. To be eaten cold. Is nice with cake. 

Mrs. E Hosack. 

Economical Pudding.— Take four cups of flour, one of suet^ 
one of dried raspberries or blackberries, one and a half cups of 
molasses, and two beaten eggs. Mix all together, flavor to taste, 
put in a mold and steaai two hours. Eat with hard sauce. 

Maude Loucks. 

Brown Stew.— Cut up, as for frying, the two chickens cooked 
for pelan; put them into a baking pan, sprinkling with s^it and pep- 
per Hiid dustirg oyer with fl >ar— about two tablespoonfuls. Cut 
up over the chicken a third of a pound of nice butter and pour in 
one teacnpfiil of rich, sweet cream. 8et m a very hot oven and 
brown quickly, from time to time turning the pieces, so that they 
will brown on all sides. The oven must be very hot so that the 
chicken wall not be co( king long. If the gravy is too thick add a 
little hot water. Aunt Jane. 

Angel's Pudding —Two ounces of flour, two ounces of su- 
gar, two of buuei, a pint of ere. mi and the wliites of three eggs. 
Bake in paty-pans, cover with icing, and serve without sauce. 

Maude Loucks. 

Knobody forgets to return to Jacksons'. 



38 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



a 2ctUz 'Wfxich SpeafuN foi^ 3t^eff 



EAR SIR:--Iam beginning to feel somewhat 
settled ill this new town. There is a good 



^J^^/ deal of push and vigor here and I sometimes 
wonder if it will last. I have no doubt it is the new 
works which are just starting here that has attracted 
the people, together with the moderate prices of natu- 
ral gas, but do you know, William, I already fear I 
have made a grave mistake in coming here to locate. 
When I look around and take time to think and see 
that there is only one kind of manufacturing on any- 
thing like a large scale here, aitd stop to think what 
th.e result of a shut down, by strike, or other cause, in 
that one industry would be, I am convinced that your 
fidvice was sound. i'our many industries, rolling 
mills, pipe works, blast furnace, railroad center, mach- 
ine shops, grist mills, etc., etc., that cluster about Ev- 
€rson. (or Valley View as I hear some call it) beside 
the fact that it is the very center of the coke region, 
has convinced me that it is the best b^cation, has the 
brightest future of all the locations I have had my 
attention called to. After reading this if you find me 
coming back to Everson you need not be surprised. 

They tell me the Pennsylvania Railroad Company 
are about to make some extensive improvements at 
Everson. If vou are sure they are, pick me out a 
nice lot, which you think suitable for my business, 
<iIose to where the P. R. R. locate, and hold it for me 
and notify me and I will come and see you and decide, 
Wishing you success, 

I am, as ever, your friend, 

IIkxky F. 

To Capt. W. II. Brown, agent of Scottdale and P^ver- 
son Land company, 401 Broadway, Scottdale, Pa. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



For good Cakes get your Flour at J. I. Rogers & Co's. 

Vanilla Snow.— Cook one cupful of rice in a covered dish to 
keep it white. When nearly done, add one cupful of cream, a pinch 
of salt, the beaten whites of two eggs and one cupful of sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla. Pile in a glass dish and dot with jelly. Serve 
with cream and sugar. Mrs. Dunlap. 

Smothered Figs.— Three cupfuls of rich milk, one cupful of 
sugar; a lump of butter, two well-beaten eggs and two spoonfuls of 
<;orn-starch to thicken when the milk boils. Place a layer in a glass 
dish and spread sliced figs thickly over. Add more cream and 
another layer of tigs; continue till all are used. Ice the top and 
serve cold. Mrs. May B. Shotts. 

Tarts.— Tarts are a very nice as well as ornamental addition 

to the tea table. Take the nicest puff paste, roll out a trifle thicker 

than for pie crust, cut with a biscuit cutter twice as mnny as you 

intend to make. In the center of half of them cut out a circle, 

dip them in cold water and lay upon the tops of the whole ones. 

Bake in a quick oven, but not to scorch them. Fill with jam, 

jelly or preserves. In cold weather, if kept in a dry place, they 

will keep for some time, ana are convenient to have on hand 

They should not be filled until just before using. 

Maude Loucks. 

Tapioca With Apples —One cup of pearl tapioca soaked over 
night, add to this one quart of boiling water; stir well and let boil 
until done. Sweeten to taste. Pare, ore and cut in halves one- 
half dozen nice tart apples, place in a pan with one-fourth cup of 
water and several spoonfuls of sug:ar sprinkled over. Bake in hot 
oven until a nice brown and then pour over them your tapioca. 
Let cool and serve with cream. Clara C. Smith. 

Fruit Puddi?^g —Mix one pint of flour into a rather thin bat- 
ter, with rich cream; add salt to taste, and one gill of melted but- 
ter. Beat six eggs separately, very light; stir these in thoroughly 
and then add one quart of very nice, ripe dewberries. Pour into a 
well-buttered pan and bake. Eat with rubbed sauce. 

One pound of soft white sugar, three quarters of a pound of 
butter, and half a nutmeg grated. This pudding is very light and 
nice. Chopped apple, or any other kind of fruit, can be substi- 
tuted for the berries if preferred. Mrs. May B. Shotls. 



Kneck-wear is to be had at Jacksons'. 



40 LADIE8' COOK BOOK. 

^^Photographs !0 

FOR 

Finest Photograps 

Cx\LL ON 



All kinds of Pliotographic work. 

|C KAYON, Oil, PASTEL, INK, k$ 

Call and see Specimens. 



Having built tlie whole buildii.g on the latest scientific 
principles for a FIliST CLASS 

I feel confident, thei-efore, with my experience in the first- 
class galleries in the large cities that I can 
please yon with my work. 



BRING THE BABIES. -),c EVERYTHING NEW. 

S'lUmO, OPP. INDEPENDENT OFFICE, Broadway, 

SCOTTDALE, - PENN'A. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 41 



Buy your Spices at J. I. Rogers & Co. 







IGKLES, OATSUFS, &0 



Stuffep Peppers— Get large peppers, cut around the stem, re- 
move it and take out all tlie seeds. For the stuffing, use t^o quarts 
of chopped cabbaj^e, a cupful of wjiite mustard seed, three table 
spoonfuls of celery seed, two tablespoonfuls of salt, h^lf a cupful of 
grated hosre radish. Fill each pepper with a part of this mixture 
and into each put a small onion and a little cucumber. Tie the 
stem on agam, put the peppers in ajar and cover with cold yine- 
gar. Sadie Keddle. 

Yeast.— Boil two ounces of the best hops in four quarts of water 
for half an hcur, strain and let the liauor cool down to the 
warmth of new milk, then put in a handful of salt and hdf a 
pound of sugar. Bent up one pound of the best flour with some of 
the liquor and then mix well all together. Let this mixture stand 
until the third day, then add Three pounds of potatoes boiled and 
mashed. Let it stand a day lonc^er. stirring frequently and keeping 
It near the fire in an earthen v^^ssf 1. Strain bottle and it is ready 
for use. The advantage of this yeast is that it ferments sponta- 
neously, not requiring the /^id of other yeast. If well cooked and 
kept in a cool place, it ^ill keep tor months. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Chilla Sauce— Twelve large ripe tomal*^es, four r'pe peppers, 
two ornons, two tables-poonfuls salt, two tal)lespo mfuls su^^nr. one 
tab!e.«poonful cinnamon, three cupfuls vinegar. Chop all tine sep- 
arately, boil one hour and a half. Mrs. W. F. ^Shotts. 

Cold Tomato Ketchup— (l op fine one-half peck of ripe toma- 
toes, add to thi^» on^^ small teacupfol of salt, two roots hors"-radish, 
grated, oi-e teacuptul of wdiite and black mustard seed, mix two 
teaspoon I uls black pepper. two red peppers, tbr*'e .^td'.irs (.f c^ lery one 
cup of onions, one tal)lespoonful cloves, one taolespoontul mace 
and cinnamon, one-half teacupfui sug•^r, on« quart vinegar. Don't 
cook. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Ketch and fall in line for Jacksons' clothing. 



42 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



—THE- ^ 

IFasliioiiable Merchant Tailor f^ $ 

405 liUOADirAY. 

SCOTTDALE, - PENN'A 



All thf^ latP'^t styles in foivijjii 
and domestic piece jioods to select q\ 
from and will be made to order 
by first class city workmen 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 43 \^ 

Buy your Dry Goods & Notions of J. I. Rogers <fe Go. 

Cold Catsup— One peck of tomatoes, one cupful salt, three 
large onions, three peppers (either red or green) without seeds, two 
tablespoonfuls each white mustard seed and celery seed, one table- 
spoonful each ground black pepner, whole cloves, and stick cinna- 
mon in bits, one quart vinegar; peal and chop tomatoes very tine 
and drain well, chop onions and peppers fine. Mix all well together. 
Add spices and vinegar, bottle and seal. Mrs. A. S.Lou«ks. 

French Pickle— One hundred small cucumbers, twenty-live 
large cucumbers, eight red peppers, ten onions, chop fine, sprinkle 
with salt, let drain twelve hours, then put in kettle, cover with 
vinegar, add two ounces mustard, one-half pound brown sugar, one 
tablespoouful white mustard seed, one tablespoonful celery seed, 
boil slow one-half hour, can in glass jars. Mrs. R. Lynch. 

Chili Sauce -Twelve large ripe tomatoes, four ripe or three 
green peppers, two onions, two tablespoonfuls of salt, two ot sugar, 
one of cinnamon, three cupfuls vinegar, peel tomatoes and onions 
chop separately very fine, add the peppers chopped with the other 
iugredieuts and boil one and one-half hour. BotMe and it will keep 
a long time. Stone jugs are better than iilass cans. 

Mrs. M. O, McCullough. 

Tomato Catsup— Slice the tomatoes and stew until soft, rub 
through a sieve fine enough to retain the seeds, boil the pulp and 
juice down very thick, to one gallon of the boiled down juice add 
one quart of cider vinegar, one pint of su?ar, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, one-half teaspoouful cayenne pepper, add one teaspoonfuleach 
of whole black pepper, allspice and cloves, put spices in a bag, boil 
down as thick as desired, put in bottles and seal. 

Mrs. M. O. McCullough. 

Spiced Apples— Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful vinegar, boil, 
add spices and apples, cook till tender put in jars, pour the juice 
over the apples, tie up tight. They will keep quite well. 

Mrs. M. L. Robinson. 

Lemon Jelly— To the well beaten yelks of three eggs add one- 
half pound pulverizea sugar, the grated rind and juice of two lem- 
ons and lastly the well beaten whites of three eargs, beat all well 
and cook in a double lined pail until it thickens. When cold spread 
between layers. Mrs. Hurst. 

FlannelCakes for a small family — One e^s ^^^1 beaten, one 
pint sweet milk, one teaspoocful salt, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder sifted with enough flour to make the batter. Bake on hot 
griddle. Clara C. Smith. 

Use Vienna flour for bread but do not use Vienna flour where 
shortening is used . Clara C, Smith. 

Kompulsion to go to Jacksons' for overcoats. 



44 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 

I. M. Newcomer, 

• - I PITTSBURCt ST., SCOTTDALE PA. i | i 



iLife, Accident and Fire Insurance.i 

BSAL ESTATE BOUGHT AND SOLD. 



« \ 'Re}ifs: Co?leetc(l, ^ Trompt SettJcmetfts. r==^ 

It 13 fust as iraiioitaiit for a man to have Life Insurance as it is 
to hrjve bis property insured against fire. Agents for 

^WL OLD llELiABLIi TRAVELERS' ACCIDENT COMPANy.->}(- 



It^ill not ct St ^ou much to carry im cicci<lent p')l;cy by the >ear in 

this CM^mpany. Accirlei ts aie liable to huppc-n when least fx- 

pectffh Be i'w the .'■nfe side and have ;i -ijo^OOOpolicy with 

$15 per week benetits incase you «n»' i: jwr^'d; ihnv 

only cost you £12 per y<'-'-ir. 



"'^WIuD YoQ Want to Buy or Sell Properly, Give Is a Call-^f 



-y\^ 



->^^^E^ 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 45 

J. I. Rogers & Co. invite you to call. 

Spiced Appl.e8 — Two cupfuls sugar, one of vinegar, boil, then 
add spicps and apples, cook until t(^nder, put in jars, pour juiceover 
the top. They will keep a long time and are delicious. 

Mrs. A. M. Gordon. 

Liquid Yeast.— Boil thoroughly two large handf uls of country 
hops in water, have potatoes enough to fill a vessel holding three 
pints. When done pour water from potatoes and hoD? over one 
pint of flour, stir well. Mash potatoes. Use enough water to haye 
one gallon of yeast after everything has been added, then add one- 
fourth cup salt, one-half cup sugar, one level tablespoonful grated 
alum, one level tcispoonful ginger. Then stir m enough flour to 
make quite thick. Let cool (in summer let it get almost cold). 
Then add one cup of home-made yeast. Never use "bakers yeasf 
to start this with* Stir occasionally until done. Tie up in a crock 
and keep in a cool place. Clara Clifford Smith. 

French Pickle— One peck of green tomatoes sliced, six onions, 
salt over night, drain thoroughly, then boil in two quarts of water, 
one of vinegar fifteen minutes, drain them, take four quarts yin©- 
gar, two pou^ d brown sugar, one-half pound white mustard seed, 
tw^o tablespoonfuls each cloves, cinnamon, ginaer one tablespoon- 
ful, put all together, boil fifteen minutes. Mrs. D. F. Stoner. 

Yeast.— Take one large handful of hops, boil fifteen muiutes, put 
one quart of flour in the vessel and pour the hop water over it. 
Add one tablespoonful of ginger, 4 of sugar, 1 of salt. Boil 4 pota- 
toes, and pour the water off in the yeast, mash fine and stir in po- 
tatoes. When luke warm add half pint of good yeast. X.et rise, 
iind rub with eorn meal and dry. Mrs, J. S. Klingensmith. 

Yejst Without Hops.— Twelve large potatoes boiled, mashed 
and pressed through a seive; ad<l three quarts of lukewarm water, 
one cup of ye^st, one cup of salt, 1 cup of suear. Mix thoroughly 
and set in a warm place four or five hours. Wiien bubbles rise it 
is ready for use. One teacupf ul of this yeast will make three quart 
loaves, and no Sponge is necessary. Keep in jars corked tijjhtly 
and in a cool place. Mrs. J. B, Lyle. 

Beer Yeast.— Scald one pint of flour with one-half gallon 
strong hop water, grate four common-sized potatoes, pour boiling 
water enough over them to cook thoroughly. When cool, add this 
with one-half teacupf ul each of salt and sugar, add one table^i>ODH- 
ful ginger to the flour. Stir in one tevicupful yeast, siir often till 
done foaming. Cork and put in a cool place. This will keep sweet 
for six weeks. Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Kant you come at once for overcoats at Jacksons'? 



46 



LADIES' COOK BOOK 



Paper Hanging ^Bny 
'Executed in the most Artistic 
Manner. 



,T. r>. STlLlPHElVH, 

III Painter, Grainer, Decorator and Glazierjii 

j?COrrDALE. PA. 

AH Work Guaranteed. 



LADlEfe' COOK JiOOK, 



Call at J. 1. KogeiH & Co., and see iheir Bargains. 

Pickled Cabbage— One pint of slaw sailed and let stand for 
twenty- four hours, eight larg^e onions sliced salted and .et stand for 
twenty-four hours, two bunches of celery cut. salted ani let stand 
twenty-four hours. Drain the water off and i)our on cold vinegar, 
let stand twenty-four hours in vinegar, then squeeze all out and 
mix well with four ounces celery seed, four pound sugar, one box 
yellow mustard, one-half pound white mustard seed, one teacupf ul 
horse-radish. Take five cents worth of tumeric, tie it up in a small 
bag and lay it on the top of the pickle, cover the whole with fresh 
coxd vinegar, stir for a week once a day good and you will have 
good pickles. Unless it is well stirred it will be apt to heat at the 
bottom and thus spoil. Anna Loucks. 

Tickle Lilly— Slice tomatoes and cabbage,salt down and stand 
one day, then drain off over night, heat them in weak vinegar, 
drain off put them in jars and let vinegar, pepper, and cinnamon 
come to a boil, put over the tomatoes, seal tight . 

Mrs. T. 13. Brallier. 

To Make Good B head— Boil two small potatoes in about one 
quart of water, drain and mash potatoes, add one small handful of 
salt, the water in which were boiled and more water, so as to have 
two quarts of water, when about milk warm add flour to make 
quite thicK, but not stiff', and one small cupful of yeast. This will 
make four nice sized loaves. If more is desired use one pint of 
water for each lo^if, keep the same temperature uutil morning. 
Then stir in all the flour ttiat you cm wdl stir with a large spoon. 
Wheu quite light pair iutj a large pan and knead well. If you use 
Vienna flour use all the flour you possibly can. When light shape 
into loaves but do not knead any more than you can help after it 
has again risen, bake one hour in a moderately slow (»ven. 

Clara Clifford Smith. 

To Pickle Whole Ripe Tomatoes— Pick and wash enough 
nice ripe tomatoes to fill a one gallon crock, take water enough to 
cover these, add enough salt to the water to make it strong enough tt> 
carry an egg, pour this over your tomatoes and put them in a cool 
place. After three or four days take them out and wipe them off" with 
a cloth; then put one pound of sugar in the bottom of the crock, 
then the tomatoes with a small handful of horse-radish cut flne, 
one teaspoouful each of cinnamon, cloves and cover them with 
good cold cider vinegar, then place a large cabbage leaf over them 
and a small plate to keep them under the vinegar. Tie up and keep 
in a cool place. Clara C. Smith. 

Spiced PLums— Spiced plums are deli^^iou with cold meat.' 
Cook the plums in a little water until soft, then, so far as possible, 
remove the seeds, sweeten and spice to your taste, boil until thick. 
Put in large mouthed bottles, seal or can the usual way. 

Know ye all parties to meet at Jacksons'. 



48 LADlEb' COOK BOOK, 



Ritchie & Co. 



DEALERS IN 



Groceries* and* Provisions, 



<•!€-*■ 



Choice California Canned and Evapo- 
rated Fruits. 

Tobaccos, Cis^ars and Candies 

ISATISFACTION FLOIIRJ 

made from spring wheat and warranted 
to please the purchaser 

FINE N. 0. MOLASSES & SYRUPS. 



Choics Country Buttsr and Eggs, 



.^^s3:-^:^^5^ 



-^^PORT ROYAL COAL^^ 

Delivered on short notice. Give us your order 



(: m=f:^< ' 



F. EITCHIE & CO., 

Cor. Grant and Pittsburg St., Scottdale, Pa. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 49 

A full line of Groceries at J. 1. Rogers <fe Co. 

Dairy Red Pickle— Oiie-f out tti week or" ^reen tomatoes, 1 larsre 
head of cabbage, iwelye gieeu cuiuimb'^rs, bix onions, one-half pint 
grated horse-radish, on^^-rourth piutvvhite mustard seed, one-fourch 
ounce celery seed, one haif teaspoontul tumeric, one tablespoonful 
black pepi'ei , one small i)OX of mustard, one pound of sugar, two 
<juarts cider vinegar, ^<ll('e at night, dr.iiu off, chop up in the morn- 
ing, chop cabbaiie by ittself the rest all toaether, stir mustard in a 
little Cold viiiej^ar and mix alLogether and seal. 

Mrs. A. M. Gordon. 



CC '^ Nsfo' ^DC?" viLy sDQ 



FP; 



^^^se^^^ffl 



Kindness brings custumei's to Jacksons'. 



50 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



RIGHT WHERE YOU ARE AND 
REFLECT. 

Am I wanting a home of my own? Am 

I providing for my family as I should 

if I do not make the effort? Am I 

not paying more high rent than 

would buy myself a home in a 

little time? Why should I not 

buy the ground, at least, 

to build upon. 

Lots are Selling Ysry Low in ths 

Pine Tree Extension to Scottdale^ 

Terms to suit in every respect. 



The ground is beautiful ! The air is the pur- 
est ! Natural Gas ! Pure mountain water and 
electric light right on the place! Churches and 
school houses also I What greater convenience 
can one wish for. 

Guess I will buy at once. Where can I find 
the place of sale, Why, at 

Jonathan Merritt, P. F. McCann. 

BROADWAY. PITTSBURQ ST. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 51 

J. I, Rogers <fe Co.'s General Store, Scotldale, Pa. 



S oups 



Fkied Tomatoes— Select firm, ripe tomatoes, slice into slices 
about one-half inch thick, season with pepper and salt and roll in 
flour, place them in a skillet that has hot lard and butter in it and 
fry on both sides a light brown. When done make a gravy of one 
cup of cream and leaspuonful of butter and one tablespoonful flour 
to thicken it. Let this heat through and pour it over the tomatoes 
and serve. Mrs. M. O. McCullough. 

Barley Soup— Take a soup bone of two or three pounds, boil 
and skim well, add one cup of barley and skim again, two or three 
potatoes and an onion. Season to taste, simmer about three hours. 

Sadie Brown. 

Dumplings— Take two eggs, a pint of sweet milk, four table- 
spoonfuls flour beat together; cook in a buttered skillet. After 
allowing it to cool, break into it two raw eggs and stir until smooth, 
then drop into beef soup a spoonlul at one time and cook five or 
ten minutes. These are very nice with new peas. 

Mrs, A. S. Loucks. 

Vegetable Soup— After boiling a soup bone or a piece of 
meat until done, add boiling wa:er to make the amount of soup de- 
sired. When boiling again, add a large handful of cabbage cut fine 
as for slaw, a half pint of tomatoes (cannedor fresh), peal, slice and 
add three large onions and two or three potatoes, one pint of green 
or canned corn. Let boil from half to three-quarters of an hour. If 
a little thickening is liked stir one egg with one teaspoonful of flour 
and a little milk, put in five or ten minutes before serving. 

Anna Hazelett. 

Tomatoes a la cream.— Pare and slice ripe tomatoes, one 
quart of fresh ones or a pound of can. Stew till perfectly smooth, 
season with salt and pepper,add a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Just before taking from the fire stir in one cup of crpam with a 
teaspoonful of flour stirred smooth in a part of it. Do not let it 
boil after the flour is put in. Have ready in a dish pieces of toast. 
Pour the tomatoes over this and serve hot. 

Anna Martha Hazlett. 

Knever forget your friend Jackson. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



THE WONDEEFUL 

FERTILIZER 



H^I-^^^M 



Attention ! Farmers and Gardners. 

le Oiiirless Pliospliate Fertilizer 

Will make your farms and gardens produce as never before. 



^>^4^ 



IT IS THE BEST PHOSPHATE 

Because it contains the most Phosphoric Acid. 
" " Lime. 

" No Water. [drills. 

" " Sulphuric Acid, which rusts the 

hastens vegotxtion more than other fertilizers do. 
hps double as much plant food as other fertilizers, 
yeilds greater product than any other. 
Germany, paying more attention than any other Coun- 
try to land cultivation, used of it in ]88Y, -100,000 tons; 
1838,650,000 tons; ]889, 870,000 tons. 

Price, delivered at nearest K. R. Station, |30 per net 
ton. All orders of five tons and upward delivered on your 
farm at this price. 

If^OK^ SA^T^li: 15^^ TUT?: 




imm m cd, 

Capt. W. H. Brown, Agent. 



401 Broadway, 



Scottdale, Pa. 



LADIES' (JOOK BOOK. 



Buy your Groceries from J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Vegetable Soup-One-half.dozeii potntx^t^s, three good sized 
tomatoes, one large onitui, one good sized turnip, one fourth of a 
small head of cabbage, oue-fouith cupfdl barley, one-fourth cupful 
dried corn, (green or canned corn can be us(d). ct op all vegt^tables 
fine and boil in water fortv\o hours, season with silt pepper and but- 
ter. Use plenty of butter and just bef( re lifting add one-haif cupful 
of sweet cream. If desired use a soup bone or the s ruth off a boil of 
meat, if so do not use so much butter. ( lara C. l^mith. 

Green Pea Sour.— Put a fat, full-grown chicken to boil m five 
quarts of water. When ic has boiled slo^vly for two h<'Urs; pi.it into 
the pot two quarts of green peas. Let these noil uuiil soft, then 
remove and mash them 'tlioronghl>. 

Put them in the colandt-r and pour the soup thro'.gh it, rubbing 
the peas about so as to let all of ihe pulp mix wii h the soup wliile 
the hulls remain in the colander. Return the soup to the oot, ad- 
ding a quarter of a pound of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a 
tablespojuful of chopped parsley. Hub smooth a tablespoonful of 
flour into some ot the buiter, add that and let it bull up briskly for 
a minute or two. Remove the chicken and serve hot. This is the 
nicest way to make green pea soup. If you waut the chicken 
nicer and the soup not quite so elegant, before adding the peas to 
the soup, you can remove the chicken and serve it for dinner with 
egg sauce. Maude Loucks. 

Tomato Soup.— One quart of tomatoes, one onion, two ounces 
of flour, four ounces of butter, two tabltspooutuls of sugar, two of 
salt, one-third of aspoonful of cayenne pepper, three pints of water, 
one-half pint of milk. Boil the tomatoes and onion in water for 
three-quarters of an hour. Add sa.t, pepper, sugar, butter and 
flour; rub smoothly together like thin cream, boil milk separately. 
When both are boiling pour milk into the tomatoes to prevent curd- 
ling. Pour over squares of toasted bread. Betsy Butterworth. 

Browned Soup.— ShanK of beef, two carrots, two potatoes, 
two stalks of celery and two tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Sea- 
son to taste. Sadie Brown. 



Knotbing but the best of clothing at Jacksons'. 



54 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



I FRANK GRAZIER, I 

p MERCHANT TAILOR | 

^ And -:• Gents' -:- Fuknishkr, ^^ 

'^ Always keeps ttie latest style g 

;?<; or piece tjoods. >-;:; 

1^ Hats. Caps and Gent's Piirnisli- ^ 

fi iiiir G'>ods at Lowest Pr ces. >-| 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



For good Cakes get your Flonr at J. I. Rosjers & Co's. 




1^" ^^«^f^ ^^^ "^ ^>s r* :^^rrs ^^'^ ^^' ^^-^ ^* 



Sliced Potatoes to Bake with Pork— Dig out the eyes and 
pare raw potatoes and slice very thinly to nearly fill a two-quart 
pudding: dish, ?eason freely with salt and pepper over the top, then 
pour over sweet milk two-third^- full, cut five or six slices of poru 
and lay over the top as a coverinsr. Bake two hours. If the pork is 
likely to get too much browned cover with thick brown paper till 
the potatoes are done. Lou Klinsfensmith. 

Deviled Eggs — Boil the earss hard, remove the shell and cut 
in two, remove the yelks and add salt, cayenne pepper, melted 
butter and mixed mustard to taste, then stuff the cavities of the 
hard whites and put the halves together again. Serve garnished 
with parsley. Kate Frey. 

Marbled Veal— Trim all the roots and tough parts from a 
boiled pickled tongue, which chop and pound to a paste. Have two 
■quarts of cold roasted or boiled veal chopped and pounded to a 
paste. Mix two tablespoonf Ills of butter and a speck of cavenne 
with the tongue, and with the veal mix four tablespoonfuls of 
butter one of salt, one-lourth of a teaspoonful of pepper and a 
speck of mace. Butter a deep earthen dish, put a layer ot the 
veal in it and pack down solidly; then put spoonfuls of the tongue 
here and there on the veal and fill in the spaces with veal. 
Continue this until all the meat has be'.n used, and pack very solid- 
ly. Cover the dish and place it in the oven in a pan of water, cook 
one hour. When cold pour melted butter over it. Cover and set 
away. Sadie Keddle. 

Scalloped Oysters.— Cover the bottom of a baking dish 
(well buttered) with a layer of crackers or bread crumbs, wet these 
Tvith cream and put on spoonful by spoonful, pepper and salt and 
strew with bits of butter, next pat in the oysters with a little of 
their liquor, pepper tnem, stick bits of butter in among and cover 
with dry crumbs until the oysters are entirely hidden. Add more 
butter in small pieces over the top, set in the oven vvit!i an inveited 
plate on top to keep in the flavor. B ike till it bubbles up on top. 

Mrs. f^arker. 

Kail your friends together at Jacksons'. 



i.ADlEtS' COOK BOOK. 



Bygate & Go., 



Fine Watch Repairing a Specialty. 

Special Care and Attention given to the Fitting of SPEC- 
TACLES. 



X>OTV'T FOXTOET THE PLACli:: 

116 and 118 PITTSBURG STREET. 



-IN OUll- 

flEWELRY DEPAHllMtNT,^! 

JVe Have j 

Everything that can be! 

found in a i 
niiST-CLASS 

JEWELEY STOHS. 



NOTIONS AND 





vV^L'- 


oiiiN.v, 1 






pLASS 


OR dUEENSWAKF.^ 


WE( 


:arry a full , 




i.INE OF 


Tea. D 


inner and Toilet Sets, i 




^/^^ ! 



SCOTTDALE, 



'.'Wtr^ 



^ 



m 









-L\ OUIi- 

f itXT'S FUliHSUlNG GOOD.^^- 

To AIAVAYS KEEP THE LATEST 
NOVELTIES IN COLLARS, . 
I CUFFS, 

Shirts and Neckvvear. 



m 



I Cloth, Shop, ShavillL^ llitir 

i -AND-" 

Tooth Jirii'-hf'iri. 

Purses, Pocket and Bill Books and all 
Kinds of Cutlery. 

Timvare k Baskets of all Kinds. 



PEMN'A, 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Bay your Spices at J. I. Rogers *& Co. 



Scalloped Oystkks No. 1— Take three diz^'w oysiers, r<, laii^e 
cupful o^ bre ui «»r cr ick* r crumbs, two ounces buit^^r, pepper, Sijlt. 
Place by layer in a pud lin.ii: Hish, moisten eachla>er wi.h the (lysler 
juice, strew small '^ieces of butter over the top, bake in a quick 
oven about fifteen minute?, Kate Frey. 

Chicken Potpie.— Cut and joint a chicken, cover with water 
and let it boil gently until tender, season with salt and pepper, 
adding a sm 01 piece of butter. Have ready nice light bread dough 
cut with a biscuit cutter, about an inch thick. Drop this into the 
boiling gravy, with oome pared potatoes and let them boil from one- 
hskU to three-quarters of an hour. To ascei t.iiu whether it is done 
stick with a fork, if it comes out clean they are done. 

Mrs. J. S. Parker. 

FiUED CniCKEX.— Prepare the chicken as for stewing, diy it, 
reason it with s»lt and pe. per, dredge it with flour and try brown 
in hot butter. Take it out, make a dressing of flour and cream, 
])our over chicken and serve immediately. Mrs. Parker 

Veal Loaf.— Three pounds of raw veal, butter size of au egg, 
one teaspoonful of s^lt, one-half teaspoonful pepper and two raw 
eggs. Chop the veaJ fine and mix all together and p. it in one table- 
spoonful of water, m »uld this into a loaf and then loU it in eight 
t it)lespoonfuls of rolled crackers, Pour over it three tablespoou- 
fuls of butter, place m a pan and bake two hours. To be sliced off 
when cold and served at lunch or tea. Mrs. C. J. Percy. 

Meat Cakes.— To one pint of ciiopped cold meat ^f any 
kind you may have, add (jne cup of bread ctumbs aud one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one-half cup boiling water, mix well 
and season with salt and pepper. Make into small cakes and fry. 

Mrs. E. H. Eeld. 

Chicken Salad.— Tv^o chickens, cook tender, so you can bone 
easy, cut tine, Srilt and pepper io taste, lake oue small teaspoonful 
of mustard seed, one pint of viueuar, five egga. Mix eggs .md 
vi'jegar (oge'.her. Two tablespoonfulii ol mustard, one bunch of 
celery. Add half cup of m^-lted butter. MiX all tOiiether. 

Mrs. D. F. Stoner. 

CiiEAM Potatoes— Cut six -r eight large. Cold, boiled potatoes 
into one inch cuoes. cover with milk and heal slowiy, beat oue large 
tablespoonful butter and cne moJtraie sp<;oijful of flour to a liuht 
cream, add a Utile warm milk, beat thoroughly and stir into the 
potat'^e^!, add pepper and salt to tasle. Let it boil up once, pu:i to 
the back of tlie stove and let it si ura^r tan minutes until it a .s a 
rich glaze. A little chopped parsley is a pleasant addition. 

Mrs. Charles Jones. 

Krush hats at Jaeksons'. 



58 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 




4" 







LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Buy your Dry Goods & Notions of J. I. Rogers & Go. 

Fried Oysters. — Select the larp:est and finest ovstei's, have 
ready a skillet of boiling: lard, dip your oysters, one at a tinoe, la 
beate n yelk of an egrg, then in grated crumbs of bread, lastly in 
lifted meal and then drop into the hot lard, tiiwi and allow them 
to become slightly brown. Drain upon a sieve and send to the 
table hot, Mrs. McGmty. 

Delicious jellied Meat.— Get four pig's feet with legs to 
first joint. Soak and scrape until thoroughly cleansed. Put in a pot 
of water without salt, and boil until done, when the bones fall out. 
Ijift the meat carefully from the liquor and set away to cool. Pour 
the liquor into a jar and when cold remove the grease. 

Take a good-sized shank of beef, sawed and cut so as to go into 
a kettle. Boil in unsalted water until the meat falls into pieces. 
Remove it from its .liquor. Next day cut the meat of pig's feet 
and beef into small bits, not mince meat, put the jelly left of the 
feet into a kettle, add all the meat, mixing together and heat to 
the boiling point. Then season with red or white pepper and salt, 
if desired, a little of the beef liquor can be added, but the latter 
can always be used for soup-stock. 

Pour the contents of the pot into mr.lds and when cold it will 
turn out in shapes of most delicious jellied-meat for tea or luncheon. 

It is much preferable to chicken or tongue. Annie Rodney. 

Prisd Oysters. — Two eggs well beaten, season with salt and 
pepper, h«ve a dish of cracker dust, dip your oysters into the 
crackers then into the beaten eggs. Repeat this seyerHl times. 
Have a pan of hot butter and lard, using half of each. Drop your 
oysters in and try until a nice brown. Clara. C. Smith. 

Macaroni with Cheese— Oue-half pound macaroni broken 
into incM lengths, one-half cupful milk, one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls butter, one tiblpspoonful flour wet with cold milk, one 
•egg beaten well, four tablespoonfuls grated cheese, pepper and salt 
to taste. Boil macaroni (in water slightly salted) until tender, then 
drain and turn into a pudding dish. Put the milk into a saucepan 
and heat, but do not boil, stir in the butter, pepper and a little 
chopped pnsley, if you tiave it, then the flour and the grated cheese 
and when this is dissolved, the beaten eg^-.pour this mixture over 
the macaroni, strew t!ie top with flue breadcrumbs and br<>wn 
quickly on the upper grating of a hot oven. Mrs. Charles Jones. 

Fried Oysters— Drain the oysters well, dip in the yellow of 
an egg, then roll in cracker dust well seasoned with pepper and 
salt. Have ready a pan buttered and fry auickly. Drain again be- 
fore sending to the table. If the oysters are small roll two togeth- 
.er. Maud Loucks. 

Kustomers come miles to buy from Jacksons'. 



60 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 

EAUTIFU14I H OMES! 



I Now I is I the i time | to | think | and | act. 



Procure | for | yourself | a | home | in | the I most 



active I town I in I south-w^estern I Penn'a. 



The I town | lies | high | and | beautiful | not | subr 



ject j to I floods I and | high | waters | of | the | low| 



lands I of | many | new | toAvns, | where | the 



devasting | elements | are | likely | to 



destroy | your | homes | or | endan- 



ger | your | life. 



The I most | beautiful | garden | spot i of | the I town 



for a I residence I is I embodied I in I that 



portion | at | the | head | of | Mulberry 



street, | known | as ! the 



PinejTreeIFarm, 



Formerly | owned | by ! Tobias | Landis, | and 



Avas I envied i for | many | years ! past | by 



I I 
persons | seeking | a | desirable \ place | | ' 



on ! which I to I build j a home. | I I I | | | I 



I I I I I I I I I I CONTINUED I ON | PAGE | 76. | 1 | | | I I I I I I I 11 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 61 tt 

J. I. Rogers & Co. invite you to call. 

Fried Apples— Pair and cut in quarters, or finer, enough ap- 
ples to fill a skillet, add butter size of an egg, and one teacuptul ot 
sugar, cover over and let fry slowly, stirring occasionally until 
done. J3e careful and do not let them burn. Belle Brown. 

Baked Beans— Soak the beans over night and as early as pos- 
sible in the morning put them into whatever \ on wish to bake them 
in. Season with salt, one teaspoonful mustard, two taMespoonfuls 
molasses or sugar, and butter the size of an egg, fill up with cold 
water and set in the oven to i ake. Fill ud with boiling water as 
aeUig cooked dry. They should bake at least four or five hours and 
when done shoul^I be nearly diy. Leave in the dish in which they 
are baked. Mrs. W. F. Shotts. " 

Roasted Apples— Pare and cut in halves twelve large apples, 
place in pan and bake till done, then place on stake plate, beat the 
white of one egg and seyen teaspoonf uls of white sugar and spread 
ovex U p of each apple, set in oven and brown lightly. 

Mrs. W. P Shotts. 

Fried Tomatoes.— Cut ripe tomatoes in slices without skin- 
ning, pepper, salt and sugar to taste. Then sprinkle flour over 
them and fry in plenty of butter u itil brown. Turn, add flour and 
sugar, pour them on a hot platter and pour a cup of milk or cream 
into the butter and juice. When boiling hot pour over the tomatoes. 

Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Corn Oysters.— To one quart of tnated corn add three eggs 
and four grated crackers. Beat well and season with pepper and 
salt. Have ready in a skillet butter and lard in equal portions hot, 
but not scorching. Drop in little cakes about the size of an oyster. 
For this purpose use a teaspoon. It is better to beat the whites of 
«ggs to a stilf froth and add just before frying, Anna Hazlett. 

Salad Dressing.— Take half a pint of vinegar and let it uet 
hot, then t)eat up two e'j:gs, half a tablespooiiful of flour, half a 
tablespoouful of sugar, one teasp )onf ul of oaustard, a.ittle salt and 
pepper, and four .ablespoonfuls of melted butter. Stir this in the 
vinegar and let the whole boil up till it is like custard, then mix it 
with whatever you have for a silad. It is good for potatoes meat 
or fish. Maude Loucks. 

Beef Loaf.— One and one-half pounds of beefsteak chopped 
very tine, and free from gristle; two cups of rolled crackers (fine) 
one cup of cold water, one-half cup of water, salt and pepper to 
suit tjje taste bake till done. Sadie Brown. 

Ham Balls.— Chop fine cold cooked ham, add an ei?g for each 
person, a little flour, beat toijether. Make into b ills and try hrown 
in hot butter Helle Brown. 

Kail eariv lo avctid the rush at Ja'jksons'. 



(52 



LADIES' COOK BOOK 



i 



Li./ 



c: 

1./. 



^ 




i 







Yours Truly 

rjjL^. II. orii^:E]N, 

The Leading and Popular Artist, of 514 Broadway, Scott- 
dale, Pa., is now doings the 



© 



ilBEST WORK IN TOWN 



If you do not believe it call at my gallery and examine 
my work. Comparison is ilie highest test of superiority 
Examine ray display and judge for yourselves. All the 
latest styles of photography, incliiding interior and exterior, 
building and machinery, and all kinds of out door work 
promptly attended to. Copying and enlarging in crayon, 
and water color a specialty. 

7J.7i7>I£JS T.-LRBJV'^S QUICA c±S ZJGJi'l'JVIJ^G. 
Please give me a call, and you will be convinced that I have 
the best equipped gallery and do the best work. Don't for 
get the place: 

Green's Art Gallery, 

51* BROADWAY, - - SVOTTDALK, fA. 



LADIEb' COOK BOOK. (jcj 



Call at J. I. Rogers & Co., and eee their Bargaiu8. 



Scotch Hash.— Chop raw beef very tine, add butler, pepper, 
salt and chopped par&ley, cover with water, stew It (well covered,) 
for fifteen minutes. Pour it over slices of toasted bread. 

Mrs. S. B. McMillan. 

Chicken Croquettes.— One solid pint of finely chopped 
chicken, one tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon of white 
pepper, one cup of cream or cMicken broth, one ta*)lespoon of flour, 
four eggs, one teaspoontul onion juice, one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, one pint of bread crumbs, three tablespoons of butter. Put 
the cream on to boil, mix flour an J butter together, stir into a 
cream, add one chicken and seasoning. Boil two minuLe.s, then 
add two eggs well beaten, take from fire immediately and set away 
to cool. ' Mrs. Hurst, 

Chicken Pot Pie.— Joint the chickens, boil until tender season 
with salt and pepper. Take one pint of flour, well sifted, with one 
heaping teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Cream Baking Powder, a little 
salt. Put in milk to make a stiff batter. Drop spoonfuls of the 
batter into the pot, while boiling; do not coyer until nearly done. 

Anna M, Hazlett. 

Meat Croquette^.— Use cold boil or roast meat, chop it fine, 
seasoQ with pepper and salt, add one-third the quautity of bread 
crumo. and moisten with a little m.lk. Hdve your hands floured, 
rub the meat iuto ooils, dip it into beaten egg then into tine pul- 
verized crackers and fry in buMer. Mrs J. B. Lyle. 

Salad Eggs.— Boil the eggs yery hard, cut them in two, re- 
move yelks, mash smooth and mix with a piece of butter the size 
of an egg a little made mustard, cold chicken, ham or tongue chop- 
ped very flue, and moisten with vinegar, i^'ill the whites nicely 
with this and place on a dish garnished with parsley. 

Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Macaroni with Cheese.— Boil macaroni in water, with 
salt to season, from twenty minutes to half an hour; drain, place 
laver in pudding dish, then layer of cheese sliced thin adding butter 
and pepper; another la>er of macaroni, theu cheese, biitter and 
pepper. Place in hot oven and bake about half an hour. Serve, 
hot. Clara C. Smith. 

Mince Meat.— Two pounds of apples chopped flue, two pounds 
beef chopped fine, one pound of cuirants, one pound of raisins, 
two pound seedless raisins, one leman— juice and grated rind, one 
tablespoonful of allspice, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful ot cloves, two pounds of lirown sugar, two teaspoonf uls of 
salt, one pint of beet brandy. Pack in a stone jar with close cover, 
and keep in a cool place. Mrs. J. H, Pool. 

Kash your checks at Jacksons', 



I 



04 LADlEfe' COOK BOOK. 



'I. ' ^± "^2- 



Central Drii^* Store 

y0.s the place to procure pure?^ 

DRUGS&MEDICINES 

Fully lip to the Standard. 

PATENT MEDICINES of all kinds CONSTANTLY CN HAND. 

Rubber Goods of all descriptions, Suspensory- 
Bandages, Shoulder Braces, Abdominal 
Suppoiters, all kinds of Syringes, 
Nasal Douches, Automiz- 

ers, etc., etc. 

Tooth, Hair and Clothes 

Brushes, Toilet Soaps, Perfumery 

etc. PURE WINES AND LIQUORS 

FOR MEDICINAL PURPOSES ONLY. 



I>0:X'T I^^OI^OKT '^FM^K JPL^^<;fi:: 



Central Drng Store, 
S. A. LOWE ^ 00., PROP'S, 

315 PITTSBURG STREET. 



SQOTTD^LE, . - - PENN'A. 



LADIES* COOK BOOK. 



The latest style Coats and Jackets at J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Potato Salad.— Take cold boiled potatoes and slice very thin, 
add to them three hard-boiled eggs also sliced thin, chop one small 
onion. In a glass bowl or salad dish put a layer of potatoes, then a 
layer of eggs, and sprinkle over them a little chopped onion, salt 
and pepper For dressing take the yelk of a raw egg and stir into 
it half a teaspoonf ul of made mustard. Beat into it three table- 
spoonfuls sweet cream, add vinegar to suit taste, and the white of 
the egg beaten to a stiff froth. If needed tor supper, make at 
BOon-time. A little chopped celery can be substituted for the onion 
if desired. Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Mock Duck.— Take a round of beefsteak at least two inches 
thick, lay it flat on the meat board, add a good amount of rich bread 
stuffing, fold it, sew it up, roll in flour, salt a little and lay on two 
thin slices of pork. Bake three quarters of an hour, baste often. 

Sadie Keddle. 

Scalloped Oytstkrs.— Drain the juice for a quart of oysters, 
butter a deep dish or pan. cover the bottom with crushed crackers, 
put in a layer of oysters seasoned with salt, pepper and plenty of 
butter, then a la>er of (trackers, then oysters and so on till dish is 
full having a layer of crackers on the top. Pour over the whole the 
oyster juice adoed to one pint of boiling water. Place in a hot 
oven and bake. Msr. J. B. Lyle. 

Fried Cabbage— Cut cabbage veiy fine, on a slaw cutter if 
possible, salt and pepper, stir well and let stand five minutes, have 
an iron kettle smoking hot, drop one tablespoonf ul of lard into it 
then the cabbage, stirring briskly until quite tender, send to table 
immediately. One-half cupful of sweet cream and three tablespoon- 
full vinegar, the vingar to be added after the cream has beeu well 
stirred and after it is taken from the stove is an agreeaele change; 
when properly done an invalid can eat it, and there is no offensive 
order from cooking it. Mrs. Parker. 

Scalloped Potatoes— SI' ce potatoes quite thin, place layer 
bread crumbs in puddine pan, then layer potatoes, season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper, another layer bread, potatoes and seasoning 
and then cover well with cold water and bake about one hour,serve 
hot. This is a nice dish for supper. Clara C. Smith. 

Warm Slaw.— Take a small head of cabbaee, chop fine, stew 
in a little water, season with salt and pepper. Dressing.— One egg, 
tiiblespoonful flour, butter size of an egg, vineirar to suit taste, 
pour over cabbage and let come to boil. Mrs. W. F. Shotts. 

Veal Loaf— Chop four pounds of veal fine, add one-half cup- 
ful of butter, oiie cupful rolled bread or crackers, three well beaten 
•g«8, one tablespoonf ul salt, mixed well and bake three hours. 

Mrs. Edward Emack. 

Knobody leaves without buying at Jackson's. 



66 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



I A, Hawthorne,! 



DEALER IIV 



DRY QOODB, 

Notions, Hosiery, Corsets, Underwear, 

Yarns, Ladies' and Gent's 

Furnishing Goods. 

BOOTS, SHOES AND RUBBERS. 

Fine Groceries, Canned Goods, Glassware, 
Queensware, Provisions and Choice 
Family Flour. 

NECKWEAR. HATS & CAPS. 

Oil Cloths, Window Shades, Fine Confec- 
tionery, Tobacco and Cigars, 

A. HAWTHOENE, 

MULBERRY ST., 

Scottdale, I-^eim'a. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 67 

Stone, China and Glassware of all kinds at J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Scalloped Oysters.— Use nice large oysters, place layer 
bread crumbs in pudding pan, then layer of oysters, season with 
salt, pepper and butter, using plenty of butter, another layer of 
bread, oysters and seasoning, and then pour over this the liquor 
from oysters and one cup sweet milk. Bake in a hot oven until 
done. Clara C. Smith. 

Chicken Salad.— Two chickens cooked until done, remove 
bones and chop fine, season while cooking, mix with this one pint \^ 
of nice white celery chopped fine, and nine hard boiled eggs chop- / ^ 
ped fine. Clara Smith, s^ 

Dressing— yelks of two well beaten eggs, two tablespoons butter^ /i 
two of sugar, and one of mustard, salt and pepper to season, stir 
into this one and one-fourth pints good vinegar, let boil, stir all 
the time. When cold, pour over and stir through chicken just be^^ 
fore serving, Clara C, Smith. 

Omelet.— Six eggs, a teaspoonful of flour, one cup of milk, a '^ 
pinch of salt: beat the whites and yelks separately, mix the flour, , 
milk and salt, add the yelKs then add beaten wbites. Have a but- 
tered spider very hot, put in bake in a quick oven just five minutes., 

Jennie E. Hazlett. 

Mince Meat.— Six pounds of boiled lean beef, ten pounds of 
apples, one and one-half pounds of suet, two of currants, four 
of raisins, one-half pound of citron, four pounds of sugar, one 
quart of liquor. The meat was boiled in one quart boiled cider^ 
three pints of Orleans molasses, three teaspoonf uls of cloves, ten 
spoonfuls cinnamon, three spoonfuls of mace, six tablespoonfula 
salt, two nutmegs, 3 lemons. This makes a large quantity and can 
be kept a long time by packing in jars. Mrs. Lottie Harrer. 

Yeal Loaf. — Two pounds veal steak, quarter pound raw pork, 
chop fine, one nutmeg grated, six butter cracKers rolled,two beaten 
^SS^y pepper and salt. Bake in a loaf, shape, keep a little salt and 
water in bake pan to baste with. Bake for two hours. 

Mrs. A. S. Loucks. 

Spare Ribs and Potatoes.— Boil ribs to almost done, then 
add the potatoes which have previously been washed and pared. 
When the potatoes are soft take out and put in skillet, potatoes ia 
the bottom and ribs on top, place in the oven and bake well. 

Betsey Butterworth. 

Dried Beef Dressed.— Put one pound of dried beef in a , 
porcelain kettle with one tablespoonful of butter, when heated 
through pour over it one pint of sweet milk, then add as soon as j 
boiling over one- third cup of sweet milk, thickened with one tea- / 
spoonful of flour. Wben boiled stir in one well-beaten egg, and re- 
move at once from the fire. Mrs. M. O. McCullough. 

Know is the time to buy your clothing at Jacksons'. 



68 LADIES' UOOK BOOK. 



| j. merrittJ 

JUSTICE OF THE PEACE, 

Real Estate and Pension Agent. 

ALL BUSLNESS i^ROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. 
:Pensio?i Claims prosecuted. 



I DR. L. H. LEITZELL, i 

" The ^ Dentist. " 



Try him on Tooth Pulling, Crown 
and Bridge Work and All Kinds of ^^ 
' Dental Work. 



•5^ 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Ladies' and Childrena* Shoes <fe Slippers at J. I. Rogers ife Co. 

Fribd Spring Chicken.— Clean, joint and soak in salt and 
water for two hours. Put in a frying pan equal quantities of lard 
and butter, in all enoupjh to cover the chicken. Dip each piece in 
beaten eegt roll in cracker crumbs and drop m the boiling fat and 
fiy till brown on both sides. Serve on a hot platter, garnishing 
with sprigs of parsley. Pour most of the fat from the pan, thicken 
the remainder with browned flour, adding to it one cup of boiling 
water. Serve in grevy boat. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Pressed Chicken.— Stew two chickens until the meat will drop 
from the bones. Chop fine, season to suit taste, a very little sage 
is an improvement in some cases. Place in a deep jar, cover with 
a plate after moistenine' with the liquor in which the chicken was 
cooked. Weigh down with a stone or flat-iron. It will be ready 
to cut in ten hours. Maude Loucks. 

To Cook a Duck.— To cook a duck satisfactorily, boil it first 
until tender; this can be determined by trying the wing, as that is 
always a tough part of a fowl. When tender, take it out. rinse it in 
clean water, stufE and put in the oven for about three-quarters of 
an hour, basting it often. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Omelet— Six eggs, one tabU^spoonful of flour, one cup of 

milk, a pinch of salt; beat the whites and yelks separately, mix the 

flour, milk and salt add the yelks then add whites. Have a buttered 

pan yery hot, put in, bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyle 

Cabbage Salad— Chop half a cubbage fine. Stir together one 
teacupful of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two 
eggs, six tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, one teaspoonful each of 
pepper, salt and mustard. Boil till it thickens, poui over the cab- 
bage and mix thoroughly, garnish with parsley and hard boiled 
eggs. Mrs. J. S. Klingensmith. 

Chicken Salad— Two well boiled chickens chopped fine, one 
pint chopped celer>', six hard boiled eggs also chopped fine. Mix 
well and season to taste. Dressing for above— One tablespoonful 
of butter, one of sugar, one of mustard, the yelk of one egg, one 
pint ot vinegar, let it cook until it thickens. Do not mix with salad 
until ready to serve. Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Potato Salad— Five large potatoes, two medium sized onions^ 
one cupful celery, four hard boiled eggs, pepper and salt to taste. 
Boil potatoes, slice in small squares, chop onions and celery. For 
the dressing— Yelk of one egg, one tablespoonful mustard, one 
tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one cupful vinegar. 
Boil and pour over potatoes. Mrs. W. F. Shotts. 

Kold weather compels us to buy clothing at Jackson's. 



70 LADIES* COOK BOOK. 

^^J. F. FlNDLEY,^ 

—DEALER IN— 

^STOVES. RANGES, TINWARE AND HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS.^ 

Slate Roofing. J^^.^ ., '^^L ^^^^' ™^^' 

^PLUMBIMQ AND REPAIRINC OF ALL KINDSf^ 
508 Broadway, - - Scottdale, Pa. 



K R. Lieit:z.ell, 

THE 

DIAMONDS, WATCHES, CLOCKS AND 
ALL KINDS OF JEWELRY. 






^ IlEFAII^IIVO A SI*EOIA3L.T"!r, ^ 



»^K&^ 



COR. BROADWAY AND PITTSBURG ST., 

Scottdale, « : • i : • • : • Penna. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Furniture and Housekeeping Goods at J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Ham Pate.— Chop some ham fine, boil six eggs hard and chop 
them also. Put in the bottom of a small deep pudding dish a layer 
of chopped ham, then a layer of eggs. Moisten with cream sauce, 
add a second layer of ham, another layer of eggs, moisten again 
with cream and cover the top with bread crumbs, dotted with bits 
•of butter. Bake half an hour or until the top is brown. 

The cream sauce consists of one tablespoonf ul of flour, one 
tablespoonf ul of butter, and a cupful of milk. Melt the butter and 
flour together and stir in the milk. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Pressed Beef.— Seven pounds of good boil of beef, boil until 
tender, leaving one pint of liquid, when cooked, season with salt 
and pepper, and chop or grind it very fine, then add the pint of li- 
.quid. Put in a dish with a weight on it. Press over night. 

Mrs, E. Lynch. 

Yeal Cutlets.— Steam the cutlets for a few minutes, so as to 
partly cook them, then wipe them dry. Have ready a dish with 
finely-powdertd crackerdust. In another dish have four egg yelks 
beaten light and mixed with two tablespoonf uls of rich sweet 
€ream. Season cutlets and egg mixture with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a frying-pan half full of boiling lard. Di? the cutlets 
first one side and then the other in the eggs and then in the cracker 
dust, after which put them in the boiling lard; do not disturb them 
until the under side is brown, then carefully turn, and when the 
other side is brown, remove to a hot dish and serve at once while 
crisp. Do not attempt to serve gravy with cutlets. 

Anna Loucks. 

A Good Way to Cook Liver.— A good way to cook liver is to 
fry it in butter, with an onion cut in small pieces scattered over it. 
Cook slowlv; when done, add a lump of butter and a little flour; 
stir well, and turn over the liver. Serve with Saratoera potatoes. 

Mrs. J. P. Hunt. 

Chicken Salad— T.vo chickens chopped fine, same quantity 
•of celery as chicken. Dressing— yellow of two eggs carefully beat- 
en, stir into this half-cupful melted butter, a little salt, pepper and 
mustard, half a cupful rich cream and vinegar to taste; mix well 
with chicken and celery. Maude A. Loucks. 

Chicken Croquettes— To one chicken chopped add a little 
:salt,pepper, parsley, nutmegfone saltspoonful of onion,ore cupful of 
cream, one-fourth cupful butter and one desert spoonful of flour. 
Put the chicken, spices and cream on the fire, when hot stir in the 
l)utter and flour, boil flve minutes and when cold make into balls. 
Beat up one egg with bread crumbs, dip the balls in and drop in 
boiling lard. Very fine for breakfast. Veal may be prepared m 
ithe same way, N. P. Hill. 

Ketch the prices offered at Jackson's. 



72 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



SCOTTMLE ELECTRIC LIGHT, 

^X->^HSAT AND POV;SR COMPANY.-)^X^ 

{Incorporated Feb, 2:>, 1890.) 



TWO "SLATTERY" DYNAMOS, 1,300 16c.p. LIGHTS. 

ONE "WOOD"' AHC DYNAMO, 25 2,00J c. p. LAMPS. 
The Most Perfect Light Known. 

The Patronage of the Public Solicited.. 



Prompt Attention and Satisfactory Servics Given at 
Lowest Rates Possible* 

— ^8SH^*— 

A. C. OvERHOLT, President, 

Jacob S. Loucks, Treasurer, 

Nathaniel Miles, Secretary.. 

— ^H9g-«$»— 

DIRECTORS: 

A. S. Loucks, A. C. Overholt. 

D. G. Morrow, S. C. Stevenson, Jno. W. Ruth^ 

B. F. Overholt, Nath'l Miles. 



— ^^^ 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Childrens' Clothing, Hats and Hoods at J. I. Rogers & Co, 

Chow CHOW~One-half peck green tomatoes, one-half peck cu- 
cumbers, not quite one-half peck of onions, onetourth peck largre 
green peppers. After it is chopped let it drain over night, put all in 
a kettle and boil for a few minutes. Put one cupful of sugar, one- 
fourth cupful ground mustard and spice. Last put in the vinegar 
and tumeric. Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Chicken Salad.— The white meat of cold, stewed or roasted 
chicken or turkey, three quarters as much in bulk of chopped 
celery, two hard boiled eggs, one raw egg well beaten, teaspooful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonf ul of made mustard, 
three teaspoonfuls of salad oil, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-half 
teacupful of vinegar, mince the meat well, remove all the fat. skin 
and gristle, cut the celery in bits half an inch in length, mix them 
and set aside in a cold place while you prepare the dressing, rub 
tbe> elks of the eggs to a fine powder, add the salt, pepper and 
sugar, then the oil, grintling hard and putting in a few drops at a 
time, then add the mustard and let all stand while you whip the 
raw egg to a froth, then beat this into the dressing and pour into 
the vinegar, spoonful at a time, whipping well the dressing while 
you add the vinegar, sprinkle a little salt over, pour the dressing 
over it, tossing and mixing until the bottom of the mass is as well 
saturated as the top, turn into the salad bowl and garnish with 
hard boiled egg and sprigs of celery tops. Kate E. Frey. 

Pork Cutlets— Cut them about half an inch thick from a deli- 
cate loin of pork, trim into neat form, and take off part of the fat, 
or the whole of it when it is not liked; dredge a little pepper or cay- 
enne upon them, and broil (or fry) over a clear moderate fire from 
fifteen to eighteen minutes, sprinkle a little fine salt upon them 
just before they are dished. They may be dipped into egg and 
then into bread crumbs mixed with minced sage, tlien finished in 
the usual way. When fried, flour them well, and season with salt 
andpepper. Serve with gravy made in the pan. 

Mrs. Geo. B. Kelly. 

Pressed Chicken.— Boil the chicken till very tender, remove 
the bones, gristle, skin and fat. Boil the gravy down to one cup- 
ful to a chicken, add a little butter, and season with pepper and 
salt, add one-half cupful of gelatine dissolved in water. Pick the 
chicken into small pieces (do not chop it) and heat thoroughly in 
the gravy, then put it into a pan and put a light weight upon it, 
slice when cold. M. E. Hill. 

Corned Beef.— One gallon of water, three-fourths pounds of 
salt, one-half pound of brown sugar, one-fourth ounce of saltpetre, 
boil and skim, let cool and pour over beef Double the same for 
poj^^ Mrs. R. Lynch. 



Knobby neckties at Jackson's. 



74 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 




■E EXTEND a cordial invitation to 
everybody to visit our new quarters in 
the new M. S. Loucks building on Pitts- 
burg street. In the arrangement of our 
new offices we have aimed to make them pleasant 
and commodious, as well as convenient, for the 
transaction of our largely increasing business. 
In doing so we have not forgotten to make special 
arrangement for the entertainment of our friends 
and patrons. 

Comment on our established business is un- 
necessary. Our Real Estate and Insurance De- 
partments are always in operation, and we will 
cheerfully inform you of the nature and quality 
of any investments which we may have on hand. 
We will deem it a pleasure to have you make us 

o nail 

;SMITH & LANE, 
General Insurance and Real Estate Agents. 

2nd floor new M. S. Loucks building, 

Pittsburg street, Scottdale, Pa. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 75 

Hen^s and Boys' Hats, Caps and Shoe? at J. I. Rogers & Co 

Chili Sauce.— One peck ripe tomatoes, one quart ot onions 
chopped fine, six green peppers chopped in it, one tablespoonf ul of 
celery, cloves cinnamon and allspice, two cups of brown sugar, one 
quart vinegar, two tablespoonfuls salt. Boil slowly for half an 
hour. Mrs. R. Lynch. 

Asparagus Boiled.— Cut the stalks of equal length, tie in a 
little bundle with muslin or tape, put into boiling water slightly 
salted, boil till done, drain it off, make a dressing of cream or milk 
and butter, be sure to have an abundance of dressing, have ready 
some slices of bread nicely toasted, trim ofE the crust, lay on a hot 
plate; take oft: and unbind the asparagus, heap on the toast and 
pour the dressing oyer it. Kate E. Frey. 

RoAST Spare-rib— Spare-rib should be well rubbed with salt 
and pepper before it is roasted. If large and thick, it will require 
two or* three hours to roast; a very thin piece may be roasted in an 
hour. Lay the thick end to the fire. When you put it down to roast, 
dust on some flour, and baste with a little butter. The shoulder, 
loin and chine are roasted in the same manner. 

The followinw receips are to be used in connection with 
a steam cooker: 

Veal Pot Pie— Salt and pepper the meat, placing on the disk 
in a pan containing a little water. When nearly cooked, place the 
dumplings on the meat and steam twenty minutes. Remove from 
the cooker and make a sauce by adding flour and butter to the 
water in the pan. Mrs. J. S. Parker, 

Steamed Custards— One quart of milk, five eggs, two-thirds 
cupful sugar; season to taste; fill cups and grate over them a little 
nutmeg. Steam until firm in centre. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Steamed Apple Dumplings— Peel and cut in halves good 
cooking apples and remove the cores from each half; then fill the 
vacancies with sugar and place halves together again. Prepare 
dough as for buscuit, roll thin and cut into pieces large enough to 
wrap around each apple. Steam 45 or 50 minutes. Serve with sauce. 

Dortha May Loucks. 

Beef Tea— Cut one-half pound lean beef into very small 
pieces, put into a bottle with a large opening, and cork tight. 
Steam two hours, then strain and season with salt. 

Mrs. R. Lynch, 



Kold cured by buying clothing at Jackson's. 



7a LA.D1ES' COOK BOOK. 

EAUTIFUL^I H OMES! 



BB^ 



— i^FOR ALL.-g-^ 



I f t I I i I i I I I I I CONCLUDKD 1 FROM | PAGE | 60. | | | | | | | | ] ) | j 



The I ground | is | of | extraordinary | good | 



drainage . 1 1 The | lots | are | very | large 



i|40|x|110|feet|and|all|front!on 



50 1 foot I streets, | and | run [back | | | | | 



to|15|foot|alleys||||||| 



Shade | trees | have | been | planted! in | large I \ 



numbers I on I all I the streets and lave 



nues. I I The | most | substantial | board 



walks, I also, | add | to | the | comfort | and 



pleasure | of i those | living | there. 



Many i lots | were 1 sold | during | the | past | sea- 



son, I but I there ! are ! some | choice | ones 



mi|IMIIIyet|to|be|had.||||M||||| 



PRICES VERY LOW 



and I rersonable | terms | to | any | who | desire | to 



buy. 1 I Call 1 on | the | agents | for | full 



information 



JONATHAN I MSRRITT, 1 1 1 1 | P. | F. | Mc:ANN, 



flllllllll illBroadway.il II I I IPittsburgI St. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 77 



Dress Goods, Underwear and Hosiery at J. I. Rogers <& Co. 




^^W" 



Baked Omelet— Beat the yelks of six eggs andadd^the whites 
of three eggs beaten very light,salt and pepper to taste,and a table- 
spoonful of flour mixed in a cup of milk. Pour Into a well-butter- 
ed pan and put into a hot oven; when thick, pour over it the whites 
of three eggs beaten light; then brown nicely, without allowing the 
top to become crusted. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Dr. W. F. Shotts. 

Tickled Eggs— Boil the eggs until very hard; wbeu cold, 
shell them and cut them in halves lengthways. Lay them carefully 
in large-mouthed jars, and pour oyer them scalding yinegar, well 
seasoned with whole pepper, allspice, a few pieces of ginger, and a 
few cloves or garlick. When cold, tie up closely, and let them 
stand a month. They are then fit for use. "With cold meat, they 
are a most delicious and delicaie pickle. Mrs. A . .S. Loucks. 

Cottage Pudding.— One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
milk, three cups of flour, one measure baking powder, bake three- 
quarters of an hour, eat with sauce or cream. Kate E. Frey. 

White Cookies.— Take two cups of white sugar, two-thirda 
cup of butter, two-thiras of a cup"of sweet milk, one egg beaten, 
flavor with nutmeg, add three pints of flour, three teaspc-onfuls of 
baking powder, roll out thin and cut in shapes. Kate E. Frey. 

Lady Cake.— Three quarters of a cup of butter beaten to a 
cream, add two cups white sugar, one cup sweet milk, four eggs, 
yelks and whites beaten separately, three cups of flour, one meas- 
ure baking powder, first mixing the powder with the dry flour and 
passing both through a sieye. Kate E. Frey. 

White Pudding.— Crumb beef suet quite fine, taking care to 
remoye all stringy pieces, then for every pint of suet crumbs add 
one pint of flour, and salt and pepper to season, after the flour 1? 
in still rub finer. Boil in a cloth for about one hour, after taking 
from the cloth put on a plate and place in a hot oven to brown. 
Serve quite hot, Do not use Vienna flour for the pudding. 

Clara C. Smith. 

Knewest styles in Hats at Jackson's. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



OUR DENTAL PARLORS 

ARE IN 

^PARKER BRO;S BLOCK,* 

COR. PITTSBURG AND SPRING STS., SCOTTDALE, PA., 

Where we are fully equipped to do all kinds of DENTAL- 
WORK, viz: Fillings of any kind. Gold, Silver, 
Amalgam, Cement or Bone. 

^XPPJIFICIAL TEETH ON ANY KIND OF PLATES USED.f>^ 



Special attention given to treating 
teeth for crowning or filling. 

GIVE US A CALL AND LET OUR WORK 
SPEAK FOR ITSELF. 

REMEMBER THE PLACE, 

-^W. p. SHOTTS, D. D. S..^^ 

PABKEH BBO.'S NE-VT BLOCK, 

SCOTTDALE, - - - PENNA. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Cutlery and Housekeeping Goods at J. I. Rogers & 



FiQ Cake.— Whites of five eggs, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, three cups flour, two cups sugar, two and one- 
half teaspoons baking powder, three-fourths of a pound of figs, cut 
the figs in thin slices, lay them on the batter and spread these over 
before baking, lay them over the icing between the layers and over 
top and sides of cakes when iced. Icing— Three cups sugar, one 
half cup water, white of three eggs, boil sugar and water to a 
thick syrup, pour over the beaten eggs and beat until cool. It not 
beaten rapidly while pouring in the syrup, the icing will not be 
smooth. Augusta Shaffer. 

Doughnuts.— Two eggs, two cups sugar, one cup rich milk 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter, flour to tliicken, flavor to taste, 
two teaspoonfuls cream tartar one teaspoon! ul soda, drop in boiling 
lard. M, E. Hill. 

Corn Pone— Two eggs,one-half cupful sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, one pint wheat flour, one pint corn meal, milk 
to make batter, two-teaspoonf uis cream lartar, one teaspouiiful of 
soda. Bake in quick oven. M. E. Hill. 

Chocolate Creams— Two and one-half cupf uls pulverized or 
granulated sugar, one-half cupful cold water Boil four minutes, 
place the saucepan in cold wattrr, and beat until cold enough 
to make into little balls. Boil longer if granulated sugar is 
used. Take half a cake of Baker's chocolate, shave all fine, and put 
it in a bowl set in top of boiling tea kettle to melt, and when balls 
are cool enough roll in chocolate with a fork. This makes seventy- 
five. N. P. Hill. 

Ginger Bread.- Pour one cup hot water on one half teacup 
lard, one tablespounful of soda, one teaspoonful salt, two eggs, one 
cup molasses, one-half cup white sugar, one tablespoonf ul ginger. 

Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Lemon Pie.— Grate one lemon, yelks of three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, three tablespoonfuls 
good cream, butter size of an egg, beat this to a cream. Make your 
pastry very short, bake in moderate oven. When done add the 
whites of three eggs, well beaten, with four tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar. Put on top and brown nicely. Recipe for one pie. 

Mrs. E. H. Reid. D 

Egg Toast— Beat four eggs, yelks and whites, together thor- 
oughly; put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan and melt 
slowly; then pour in the eggs and heat without boiling, over a slow 
fire, stirring constants ; aod a little salt, and when hot spread on 
slices of nicely browned toast and serve at once. ^ 

Mrs. R. Lynch. 

Kareful attention to customers at Jackson's. 



80 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 

MAT IS BEST IS CMPEST, 



^J>lK^^ 



ONE PRICE TO ALL AND THAT 
THE LOWEST. 



If there are any better shoes made than I am 
selling for the money I do not know of them. 
You will find our stock always full. Give me 
a call and compare quality. 

C.A.COLBORN, 

127 Pittsburg-st., - - Scottdale, Pa. 

m:urp>hy & CO., 

SCOTTDALE, - - PA, 

Mnaertakers and Embalmers.^ 

FURNITURE! 

AH the Latest and Newest Patterns in Parlor and Bedroom 

Suites, Antiqne and XVI Century Oak, Mahogany, 

Walnut and Cherry. Every article in the 

Furniture Line always in Stock. 



Special attention to Undertaking in all 
its branches. 



-^ Night Bell Answered From Buildins^. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 81 

The latest style Coats and Jackets at J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Chocolate Pie.— One cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls of choco- 
late, three-fourths of a cup of sugar, yelks of three eggs. Heat 
the chocolate and milk together. Add the sugar and eggs when 
well-beaten together. Flavor with vanilla. Meringue for pie- 
Whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown very 
lightly. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Drlmonico Pudding.— Six even tablespoonfuls of flour, three 
.eggs, one pint of milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Mix flour and 
yelks of eggs together, adding a little milk at a time, beat until 
light and smooth. Lastly add the beaten whites of the eggs and 
put to bake in flat pan just before you serve your dinner. You can 
make any kind of sauce you like, lemon, wine or vanilla. 

Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Cucumber Pickles.— Five gallons of vinegar (white wine), 
one-fourth pound of tumeric, one half pound mustard, one-fourth 
pound black pepper, one-fourth pound of root ginger, one cup of 
salt, two ounces cloves, four green penpers. Mix tos'ether and boil 
the ingredients excepting the tumeric and mustard whicl |you add 
when cold with your pickles. You can add pickles when you like. 
Stir from the bottom for nine days. Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Neopolitan Cake— Que cupful of butter, twocupfuls of brown 
sugar, one cupful molasses, oue cupful strong coffee, four and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, four eggs, two teaspoonf uls of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cinraniim, two teaspoonfuls eJoves, one teaspoon- 
ful of mace, one pound each of raisins, currants and citron. Bake 
the cake in round pans with straight sides. The layers should be 
one and one-half inches thick the white cake the same thickness. 
After the cakes are cold each black layer should be spread with a 
thicK: coating of lemon and sugar mnde as follows: Tlse white of 
one egg well beaten, the grated rind and juice of thrt^e lemons, 
powdered sugar enough to make a thick frosting. Now lay a >yhite 
cake on each black one a^ you would any layer cake, being par- 
ticular to use no other flavoring than lemon. Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

PEiiCH Butter— To one bushel of peaches allow from eight to 
ten pounds of granulated sugar; pare and halve the peaches, put 
into the kettle, and stir constantly, to prevent sticking to the ket- 
tle, until perfectly smooth and rather thick; a part of the peach- 
stones thrown in and cooked with the peaches give it a nice flayor, 
and they can afterward be skimmed out; add the sugar a short 
time before taKing from the fire; put in jars and cover tight; 
peaches for butter should be neither too mealy nor too juicy. 

Mrs. J. S. Parker. 

Knobody leaves without buying at Jackson's. 



m 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 




»jr/# 



l^\^ 






^O 

^^^'9^'^.s'^'^--^'' 



'7^^ 



^ 



«» *^ 



.^^ 



.^^ 



cte- 



C^^^ 



.v\^» 



-.'^"^' 






\% 



\Nv» 



.x,^^^ 



4:\tv<i 



^^'- 






^e' 









m 



^i^ 



\xX 



I 



^^ 



r# 



rsT^ 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 83 



Stone, China and Glassware of all kinds at J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Apple Butter— Boil down a kettleful of cider to two-thirds 
the original quautit}-. Pare, core and slice juicy apples, and put as 
many into the cider as it will cover. Boil sluAvly. stirrint? often with 
a flat stick, and when the a pies are tendpr to hreakina'. take them 
out wiih a perforated skimmer, dran>ing- well against ti.e sides of 
the kettle. J-'ut in a second supply (^f apples and stew theui soft, us 
many »s the cider will tiold. Take from the fire, puur all togf^ther 
into a tub or large crock; cover and let it stand twelve hours. Then 
return to kettle and boil down, stirring al! the while initil it is the 
consistency of thick cnstard and brown in color. Spic ^ vvell with 
Durkee's ground mixed soices. Mrs. J. 8. P.<rker. 

Snow Balls.— One pound soft white sugar, creamed light with 
one pound of sweet f'esh butter, sixtee?i egg whitf^s beaten light, 
one pound of flour sifted sevenJ times and warmed, one pound of 
almonds blanched and sliced np, one pound of citron cut up into 
small pieces, and one p'Mind of grited cocoanut. Add the flour 
and egg white alternately to the creamed sugar and buUer, flavor 
with the grated rinds of two fresh lemons. Mix the cocoanut, cit- 
ron and almonds thoroughly and stir in well. Have ready your 
pans nicely greased with fresh butter from which the salt has been 
washed. Fill them to within half an inch of the top; set them all 
in a large nan and put in a moderately heated oven. If browning 
too rapidly before they are done, cover them with buttered paper. 
They should be renjoved trom the oven as soon as perfectly done, 
and when perfectly cold ice smoothly and carefully. 

Mrs. E.II. Reid. 
Pineapple Pkeserves— Use pineapples as ripe as can be had. 
Pare ai d cut them into thin slices, weigh them, and allow one 
pound of the best grannlated sugar to each pound of fruit. Take a 
deep china bowl or dish, and in it put a layer of fruit apd sugar al- 
ternately, a coating of sugar on the top; let it stand all night. In 
the morning, take out the fruit and put the syrup in a preserving- 
kettle. Boil and sk!m it until it is perfectly clear; then, while it 
is boiliwg hot, pour it over the fruit, and let it stf.nd uncovered 
until it becomes entirely cold. If it stands coveied, the steam will 
fall into the syrup and thin it. Mrs. II. Lynch. 

Sliced Peaches— Peal and slice the peaches. Lay them in a 
dish with plenty of sugar for an hour or two, till tea time. Eat 
with cream. Mrs. J. B. Lyle. 

Stewed Peaches— Make a syrup of sugar and water; halve the 
peaches, leaving the stone in one half, and drop into syrup .Allow 
the whole to simmer slowly until fruit is tender; then remove 
fruit, and let s}iup boil till thick; then pour over fruit and serve at 
once. Nan. E.Smith. 

Know is the time to buy your clothing at Jacksone'. 



84 LADIES' COOK BOOK. _^ 

^l^dersoii's ^ ]|ivery, 

SCOTTDALE & CONNELLSVILLE, 

D. G. Anderson, Proprietor. 



-»T»;;5f;fe«M^ 



Large3t and Best in Scottdale or 
Connellsville. 



•^l-®^€- 



Goocl Horses, JSTew Buggies, 

Cari'iageSf Irhaetons , Coupes, 

Carts and Wagons, 

The Livery business in all its branches. Horses 

bought and sold. New buggies and carriages always on 
hand and for sale. Reasonable rates and strict attention 
paid to funerals. Hauling of all kinds. In addition to the 
Livery business, we invite the peoples attention to our 

^jBIacksmithing Department.^ 

In which we cannot be excelled. Blacksmithing, horse- 
ghoeing, wagon making, rebuilding and repairing carriages, 
buggies, w^agons, carts, barrows, in either wood or iron, 
done on shortest notice. Horses' feet treated in the most 
scientitic manner. We keep a full line of harness, saddles, 
Bridles, Lines, Robes, and everything needed in the use and 
care of horses. Shops and stables in care of first class me- 
chanics and competent assistants. Give me a call. 

D. G. Anderson, 

Scottdale and Connellsville. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 85 

Ladies' and Childrens' Shoes & Slippers at J. I. Rogers & Co. 

Chocolate Cake— Oae pound suejar, one pound flour and one- 
naif pound butter, four eggs beaten separately until very lifiht, half 
pint milk, one teaspoonful soda,two tenspoonfulsof cream of tartar.- 
Bake in two cakes. Beat three cupfuls powdered sugar with the 
whites of three eggs, add chocolate to taste. Spread a layer of this 
icing between the cakes and on the top and sides. Coeoanut cake 
can be made in the some manner by substituting half a grated coa- 
coanut for the chocolate in ihe icing, Mrs. E. H. Reid. 

Boiled Turnips— Pare and cut into pieces; put them into 
boiling water well salted, and boil until tender; drain them thor- 
oroughly and then mnsh and add a p ece of butter, pepper and salt 
to taste Stir until they are thoroughly mixed, and serve hot. 

Boiled Onions— Skin them carefully and put them to boil; 
wheu they haye boiled a few minutes, pour off the water, add clean 
cold water, and then set them to boil again. Pour this away also, 
and add more cold water, when they may boil till done. This 
change of w^aters will make them v\ hite and clear, and very mild in 
flavor. After they are done, pour off all the water, and dress with 
a little cream, salt and pepper to taste. 

Boiled Hominy— Soak one cupful of fine hominy over night 
in three cupfuls of water, and salt to taste; in the morning turn it 
into a quart pail; then put theopail into a kettle of boiliuu:, water 
cover tightly, and stenm one hour; add oiie teacupf ul of sweet milk 
and boil fifteen minutes additional, then serve hot. 

Orange Souffle— Peel and slice six oranges, put in a glass 
di?h a layer of oranges, then one of sugf^r, and so on until all the 
orange is used, and let it stand two hour&; make a soft boiled cus- 
tard of yelks of thr^e eggs, pint of milk, sugar to taste, with grat- 
ing of orange peel for flavor, and pour over oranges wheu cool 
enough not to break dish; beat whites of the eees to a stiff froth,, 
stir in sugar, and put over the pudding. Praised by all. 

Mrs. Maiy A. Livermore. Melrose, Mass. 

Orange Cake— Two-thirds cupful butter, two smaL cupfuls 
sugar, one cupful milk, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, the yelks 
of five eggs, three small cupfuls flour; bake in jelly tins. Whites 
of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, juice and grated peel of one or- 
ange, sugar to consistency; put this between the layers with white 
troeting on the top. Mrs Goy. Pillsbury, Minnesota. 

Good Cookies— Two cupfuls sugar, one of butter, one of sour 
cream or milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda; mix soft, roll thin,, 
sift granulated sugar over them, and gently roll it in. 

Mrs. Judce W»^st, Bellpfontaine, Ohio. 



Kui«i woalher (.•oiii|»fi.-> u» lo udj civjthi.ig at Jack-iou's. 



8G LADIES' COOK BOOK. 

SMITH & NULL, 



'-^l^EIA.LEIl^ i:iV-t$»^ 



li^RDT^^^RE 



-^:xi>- 



lAGRlCULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,^ 

Headquarters 

. :)FOE(:- - 

Glass, Nails, Locks, Paints, 

STOVES AND RANGES. 



CUTLERY OF EVERY DESCRIPTION 



Mowers, Reapers, Hay Rakes, Grain Drills, 
Plows, Shovels, and every arti- 
cle used by the farmer, 

Also Carriages, Buggies, Wagons, 
Bog Carts and Buck-boards. 



Special agents for the highest grade 
fertilizers. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 87 

Furuiture and llousekeeping Goods at J. I. Rogers &, Co. 

IIiCivOKY-NUT Cake— A cup of butter, two ot sugar, three of 
flour, one ot tiweet milk, whites of seven and yelks of two egsjs, a 
teaspoonful of soda, two of cVeam tartar, one pint of hjckory-nut 
meats rolled and sprinkled with flour; beat the whites to a stiff 
froth. Rich and excellent. Mrs. A. B Morey. 

Cuertp:d Eggs — Slice two onions and fry in butter, add a 
tablespoojif ul curry powder and one pint good brotli or stock, stew 
till onions are quite tender, add a cupful of cream thickened with 
arrowroot or rice flour, simmer a few moments, then add eight or 
ten hard boiled egas, cut in slices, and beat them well, but do not 
boil. Mrs. E. L. Fciv, Washington Heights. 

Pineapple I'ie— A cupful of suyrar, a half cupful butter, one 
of sweet cream, five ei^gs, one pineapple grated; beat butter and 
suijar to a cream, i\dd beaten yelks of e'j^g^, then the pineapple and 
cream, and, lastly, the beaten whites whipped in ligh ly. Bake with 
under crust only. Mrs. Wm. Smith, J-scksonville, Florida. 

A Kentucky GriiL's Pumpkin Pie— Cut pumpkin in h dves, 
remove se^ds, bake in a dripping pan (skin side of pumpkin down- 
ward), with a slow fire, until pulp can be readily scraped from skin; 
mash fine, and while hot add to each quart pumpkin two tabJe- 
spooufuls butter; when cold sweeten to taste; add one pint cream 
or new milk, yelks of three eggs, w&ll beaten and strained, cinna- 
mon and allspice to taste (ginger, if preferred), one wine glass of 
brandv; stir well, and just at the last add whites of eggs, well 
whipped. The brandy can Ije omitted and not injure receipe. Many 
like a tablespooaful of leracm extrac": and less spice. If lemon is 
used, omit brandy. Bake in deep pie-plates in a quick oyen. 

L. A. B.C. Lexington, Ky, 




Ketch the prices offered at Jackson's. 



88 LADIES* COOK BOOK. 

G;^LE OJEl r>OXJBLE TEA3XS, CAR- 

HIAOES, BXJOOIES OR- LIOHT 

WAOOIVS, OO TO 

NEWINGHAM & OWENS' 

Extensive Livery, Feed and Sale Stable. 

Cor. Pittsburg and Hickory Sts. 



None but first class and perfectly safe 
^ animals kept. 

A, M, GALZJE:r, M. Z, GAZLBT. 

A. M. GALLEY & CO. 

DEALERS IIV 

All Kinds of Furniture. 

And House Furnishing Goods. 

AU the latest designs in Antique and Quartered oak, cherry, 

mahogany and walnut. See our large assortment and 

exceptionally low prices before going elsewhere. 

Queensvare, Carpets and Wall Paper a Specialty 



UNEXCELLED BY ANY HOUSE IN THE 
COKE REGION. 

Pittsburg St., - - - Scottdale, Pa. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



Childrens* Clothing, Hats and Hood« at J. I. Rogers & Co, 



The great danger in candy-making is that of burn\n(? the sugar. 
To propeily cook the candy requires a heat of about two hundred 
and fifty degrees. Le»s Lhan th^t heat will leave the candy soft 
and sticky, A very little more than two hundred and sixty degrees 
will burn it. Here, then, is the need of cure in candy-making. 

In the cooking, allow the heat to reach the bottom of the pan 
only. Have a quick lire that the w'ork may be done in the shortest 
possible lime. When cooked for tifleen minutes, test a spoorful of 
the mass unon a cold plate. If it form a viscid, tenacious mass 
which forms at long, adherent thread when drawn out, then it is 
nearly done, and it nee is special care lest it burn before the work be 
completed. Test frequently now, dropping a little in cold water. 
When the hardened portion i« ciisp as a pipestem, the cooking has 
gone far enough. Then comes the fl ivoring and coloring. 

When the mass has cooled on a stone or buttered plate, so that 
it can be handled, it is ready tor pulling .rolling mto sticks, shaping 
into forms, etc. The pulling process is simply a mechanical means 
of whitening the candy. It is literally a pulling, the candy being 
thrown on a hook and pulled out from ic, then being thrown on 
it again and again pulled, and so on as may be desired, the longer 
pulling giving the whiter candy. 

For home made candies use pure materials and good fruit, 
Bnougli of earths and starch and decayed fruits are bought in the 
cheap candies of the stores. 

Candied Nuts and Fkuits— Three cupfuls of sugar, one cup- 
ful of water; boil until it h irdens when dropped in witer, then 
flavor with lemon. It must not boil afi^er the lemon is put in, Put 
a nut on the end of a fine knitting needle, take out, and turn on the 
needle until it is cool. If the candy ire^s cold, set on the stove for 
a ew minutes. Malaga grapes, and orang-s quartered, may be 
CTndied in the same wav. 

Chocolate Cakamkls— Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful ol 
warm water, one-half cupful of grated chocolate, three-fourths of 
a cupful of butter. Let it boil without stirring until it snaps in 



Knobby neckties at Jackson's. 



90 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



HO! FOR THE 

GREAT f ESTEEI MAT MAPIET, 

JOHH KRITS:HaAU, Fropristor. 
SCOTTDALE, PENN'A. 

-«^^<'w- 

THE GREAT WESTERN IS 

WHOLESALE - ANB - RETAIL, 

AND CARRIES TPIE 

LARGEST STOCK OF MEAT IN TOWN. 

We will always be found with a fresh supplj of 

GHOIOE BEEF, PORK, VEAL, 

MUTTON AND SAUSAGE, 



We make a specialty of 

Frankfort Sausage. 

Try it and you will like it. 



GIVE iVIE A CALL. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. 91 

Men's and Boys' Hats, Gaps and Shoe? at J. I. Rogers & Co 

Ice-cream Candy— Take two cupfuls of granulated su^nr, 
half a cupful of water, an^i add one-quarter of a teaspoonful ttf 
cream tartar dissolved in a teaspoonful of boiling water. Putin a 
porcelean kettle, and boil ten minutes without stirrin;^ it. Drop a 
few drops into a saucer of cold water or on snow. If it hecoaaes 
brittle it is done; if not, boil till it is. A'.ld a piece of butter hatf 
as large as an egg while it is on the Hie, and stir it in. Paur into a 
buttered tin, and set on ice or snov to cool enough to puH; pull 
whit*^, flavor with vanilla just before it is cO' J enough t'> pull. vVork 
i.3to strands and cut into slicks. 

GocoANUT Candy— Gra-e very tine a sound coco?am.t, spread 
it on a dicih, and let it dry naturally f.)r three ddys, as it will not 
bear the heat of an oven, and is too oily for use when fieshly 
broken. Pour ounces will be suffi-ient for a pouni of sugar for 
most tastes, but more can be used at pleasure. To one pound of 
sugar, take one-half pint ot water, a very little white of an es;^, 
and then pour over the sugar; let it stand for a short time, then 
place over a clear fire, and let it boil for a few minutes; then set it 
one side until the scum is subiided, clear Ic ojEf, and bnl the su^ht 
un-il very thick; then strew in the nut. stir au-i mix it well, and do 
not quit for an instant until it is finished. The pan should not Tao 
placed on the fire, bat over it, as the nut is liable to burn with too 
(ierce a heat. 

Chocolate Caramels, No. 2— One cupful of rich sweet ci-eatn, 
one cupful vt bmwu bUgar, one cupful of •'.v hite sugar, seven tabla- 
spoonfuLs of vanilla cliocoLit*^, one tabiespoonful of corn-starch, 
stirred in the cream, one ta'ole.spoonful of butter, vanilla fl.ivorin^ 
soda, the size of a pen, stirred into cream. Boil -ill tiie iugredient«, 
except the chocolate and ^nilla extract, half an hour, stirring to 
prevent burning, Eeserve half of the cream, and wet up the choco- 
late in it, adding a very lis tie water if necessary. Draw the sauBe- 
pau to the side of tiie rang'-\ and stir tliis in web; put back on the 
fire and boil ten minutes longer, quite fast, Ktirdng constantly. 
When it makes a hnrd ghssy coat on the spoon, ii; is done. Add 
the vaniha after taking it from the range. Turn into&halio a digb- 
es, well buttered. When cckl enough to retain the impression of 
the knife, cut into squares. 

Lemon Taffy— Two cupfuls of wiiite sugar, one cupful of 
boiling water, one-quarter cupful of vinegar, one half-cupful of Dut- 
ter, flavor with lemon; pour in buttered plates to cool. 

Butter Taffy— One tabiespoonful of yinegar, one cupful of 
sugar, two tablespooufuis of molasses, and a piece 3f butter the 
size of an egg. When done add a little soda. 

Kold cured by buying clothing at Jackson's 



12 LADIES' COOK BOOK. 



SOOTTDALE PLANING MILL. 



ZEARLEY&. POOL, Propr'S. 



Rough and Worked Lumber, y^ 

7^ Doors, Sash Frames, Mouldings, 



Scroll sawing and stair building a specialty. 
Estimates furnished and contracts taken. 
Also drawings and specifications fur- 
nished for all kinds of buildings. 



LADIES' COOK BOOK. S3 

Dress Goods, Underwear and Hosiery at J. I. Rogers A Co. 

Cream Chocolates— For the creams, boil two cupfuls of 
white sugar and one-half capful of milk for five mioutes; add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla, then beat until stiff euout»h to handle and 
make into drops. For the chocolate— Take three-quarters of a half- 
pound cake of Baker's chocolate, grate and steam over the teaket- 
tle. Drop the creams when hard, one at a time, into the hot choB- 
olate, using two forks to take them out quickly; set the drop on 
oneforkon the bottom, using the other fork to scrape the choco- 
late off the cream; gently slip the drop upon a buttered disti. If, 
when cool, the drops s ick to the dish, hold it over the steam of the 
teakettle for an instant. 

Chocolate Creams— Inside: Two cupfuls of sugar, one cup- 
ful of water, and one and a half tablespooufuls of arrow-root, ona 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix the ingredients, except the vanilla; 
let them boil from five to eight minutes, stir all the time. After 
this IS taken from the fire, stir until it comes to a cream. When 
it is nearly smooth, add the vanilla and make the cream into ballf. 
Outside— Melt a half pound of Baker's chocolate, but do not add 
water to it. Roll the cream balls into the chocolate while it is 
warm. 

Cream Walnuts— Two cupfuls sugar, two-ihirds cupful of 
water. Boil without stirrine until it will spin a thread; flavor with 
vanilla. Set off into a dish with a little cold water in it; stir brisk- 
ly until white and creamy. Have the walnuts shelltd; make the 
cream into small, round cakes withyo»:rfingers, press half a walnut 
on either side, and drop into sifted granulated sugar. 

Philadelphia Groundnut Cakes— Boil two pounds of light 
brown sugar in a preserving kettle, with enough water to wet it 
thoroughly and form a syrup. Have ready a quarter of a peck of 
groundnuts (peanuts). When the sugar begins to boil, throw m 
*he white of an egg to clear it. Skim and try by dropping a little 
into cold water to see if brittle or done; when it is brittle remove 
from the fire and stir in the nuts. Drop on vvet plates, free from 
greese. The white of eg? may be omitted. 

Molasses Candy— Three cupfuls of brown sugar, i cupful mo- 
lasses, 1 cupful of water, i teaspoonful of cream tartar, butter the 
size of a walnut. Bring to a boil, and when crisp by testing in 
oold water, flavor; pour out on a buttered plate, and pull to white- 
ness if desired. 

Butter Scotch— Two cupfuls of sugar, two tablespoonf uls of 
water, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Boil without stirring, 
until it hardens on a spoon. Pour out on buttered plates to cool. 



Knewest styles in Hats at Jackson's. 



rJiDIES* COOK BOOK. 



J.W.RUTH. J. W. GRANTHAM. 



WestmorelaMPlaninfMill, 

RUTH & GRANTHAM, PROP'S., 

(S.UCCESSOKS TO HUTU & STONER,) 

-i^XManufacturers of and Dealers in^^ 

SBIH Al FilSHED LIBER 

OF EVERY DESORIPTION. 



'>K^«l€- 



Estimates FurniBlied and Contracts Taken. 

DRAWING AND SPECIFICATIONS PREPARED 
FOR ALL KINDS OF WORK. 

ORDERS FILLED PROWIPTLY, 

Satisfaction Guaranteed. 



LADIEb' COOK BOOK. 93 

Cutlery and Housekeeping Goods at J. I. Kogers & Co. 

Cream Dates— For cream dates, take fresh Calitornia dates, 
remove the stones, an;] tiil the centre of dates witli the same cream 
as used in cream wahiuts. Drop into sugar. 

Peanut Candy— Boil one scant pint of molasiSc'S until it liar- 
dens in cold water. Stir in two tablespooufuis uf.vauilla, then one 
teaspoonf al of soda, dry. Lastly, tiie shelled peanuis, taken fiom 
four quarts measured before sbelliuQf. Turn out into shallow pans 
well Guttered, and press it down smootn with a wooden spoon. 

Cream Candy— One pound of white sugar, tliree tabk-spooL- 
fuls of vjuegar, one teaspoontul of lemon extract, one teaspoonf ul 
of cream tartar. Add a little water to moisten the sugar, and boil 
until brittle. Fut in the extract, then turn quickly out on Luttered 
plates. When cool, pull until white, and cut in squares. 

Almond Candy— Proceed in the same way as for cocoanut 
candy. Let the aimonds be blanched and perfectly dry, and do 
not throw them into the sugar until they approach the candying 
point. 

Gum Drops— Dissolve o;.e pound of gum arable in on*^, and 
one halt pints of water; su'am and add one pound of lehned su^ar; 
beat until ihe sngur is entirely dissolved. Pi-tvur t> laste. aud add 
coionng if debited. Tuen evaporate with a slow heat until the mass 
is thicR ashouey. Have a sua low box, nr dish of line starch; in 
this make a series of aents with a rounaed stick, the size desired 
for the iium drops. Into each of these Indentations di op from a 
spout, or a spoon, just enough of the thickened mass to hll the 
cavitv, then set away in a warm place till the drops be<'ome suffi- 
ciently set to allow handiintc. This may requue several days. 

Peppermint Drops— Mix granulated sugar with enough water 
to form a paste, and put it to boil in a saucepan havint; a lip from 
which the contents c^n be poured or dropped. Allow it to come al- 
most, but not entirely to a boil Stir continually. Allow it to cool 
a little, and fi .vor to taste with strong essence of peppermint. Then 
drop tne mass on sheets of dn or white paper. To diop it properly, 
allow just enoug.i to gither at the lip of the saucepan, aud then 
stroke it ofT with a piece jf stiff wire. They sh )uld uvy in a warm 
place. 

PiG Paste — Chop up one pound ot figs, and boil in a pint of 
water till reduced to a soft pulp. Strain through a tine sieve, and 
add three pounds of sugar. Evaporate over boiling water till the 
paste becomes stiff, tljen pour into a mold of wooden strips tied to- 
gether. When cool, cut into squares. Sugar each well, and put 
away for use. Flavors may be added to taste, or fresh fruits may 
be mingled to taste. 

Kareful attention to customers at Jackson's. 



1 



96 LADIKS" COOK BOOK. 

A PAPER FOR THE PEOPLE! 



All the News from the Connellsville Coke Region may be found in 

THE 



INDEPENDENT, 



Published Every Thursday Morning. 

Publication Office, No. 524 Broadway. 

SUBSCRIPTION, SI. 50 PER YEAR. 

STRICTLY IN ADVANCE. 
- >H:] g«i^* 

We have unsurpassed facilities for doing every description of 

plain and fancy 



PRINT?ING. 



Neatness of Execution and Promptness in Delivery Guaranteed. 
Prices the most Reasonable consistent with 

FIRST-CLASS WORKMANSHIP. 






W:¥^^' 



/i\ /k\ /iX 






VV. W. Newcomer 

NTRAL GROCERY;^ 

.TER&. NEWCOMER. 

Successors to W. S. Mumaw. 

feburg-st., -:- Scottdale, Pa. 

laim to carry the best, purest and fresh- 
est stock of 

AMILY -:- GROCERIES 

of any store in town. 
Give us a share of your patronage. We guar- 
antee Lowest Prices and 

GENTLEMANLY TREATMENT. 

Give us a trial and be convinced this is the 
place where you want to deal. 

FRESH COUNTRY PRODUC 

-••^ag-l^^ — : 

^iW ALTER & Newcomer^ 




.»k 



E PEOPLEl 

;ke Region may be found in 




•— ♦5»-^H$»—- 



The Quickest Way ! No 



IDE NT, 




Because of the fiiany industi-ies emfcA. 
the limits of Scottdale and Everson, on i 
& 0. and P. R. R., it was one of the most s 
stantial and rapidly groAYing districts in tf!^. Broadway. 

country. 

-':^. •-- inioz. 

THE SCOTTDALE & EVERSON ^ t-r 

LAND COMPANY 

Ofrcr splendidly situated, large lots av veiy 
low prices, and on 

Very Easy Payments. 

The rapid advance on their values is surely, 
the best way to make money. Call and s^^ 
Capt. W. H. Brown. 401 Broadway, Scottdale, 
Pa., Agent for Scottdale and Everson Land 
Company. 



«f^ 



